TARTAN
March 8, 1977 Volume 77, Number 19 Carnegie—Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Student Senate Achievements This Year
Peter Yacoe, President of Student Government
Senate Supports Effort 
To Lower Drinking Age
by Joan KonKie
Student Senate recently passed a resolu­
tion supporting a bill that would lower the 
Pennsylvania drinking age to 19. The Pen­
nsylvania legislature should be voting on 
the bill sometime this month.
Student Senate President Peter Yacoe 
sent a letter to the state senator and re­
presentative of CMU’s district indicating 
student support of the bill. A petition 
supporting the bill was drafted by Senate 
and is available at the Skibo Information 
Desk for students who wish to sign it.
The resolution urges all CMU students to 
write to their legislators telling them that 
they would like the bill passed. The 
Student Association of Lycoming College, 
in Williamsport, is canvassing for student 
support across the state.
In a letter to Student Senate, the as­
sociation said “Although the fairness and
justice of a change in the laws are obvious 
to those of us who are directly affected, 
it is necessary for us to apply as much 
political pressure on our representatives 
in favor of a change as those who oppose a 
change.”
Last year, the letter went on to say, 
when hearings were held to determine 
whether or not to change the laws, 
many pressure groups lobbied against it 
and only a few favored it. However, 
they believe that if at least 10,000 col­
lege students write to their legislators 
now, the law will probably be changed 
this time.
Mark Kennet, Chairperson of the Stu­
dent Senate General Campus and Infor­
mation Committee, is trying to get stu­
dents to support the bill at CMU. Accord­
ing to Kennet, “Pennsylvania has one of 
the most antiquated liquor systems in the 
country and it is time the state came into 
the twentieth century.”_________________
Intensive Language Courses 
Offered This Summer
by Beth Kosis
The Modem Language Department is 
offering an innovation in language study 
during the summer, “The Intensive Lan­
guage Model”, for students who want to 
earn a full year of credit (24 units) in ele­
mentary French, German, or Spanish. Each 
six-week summer session will represent one 
semester of language study.
According to Hall Rennert, Assistant 
Professor of Modem Languages and coor­
dinator of the program, the course has two 
main objectives. One is to enable students 
to become competent and confident speak­
ers of a foreign language”, and the other to 
give Junior and Senior language majors and 
students whose native language is French, 
German, or Spanish the opportunity to 
work as paid assistant teachers.
“The Intensive Language Model” began 
at Dartmouth six years ago. CMU adopted 
it as an alternative to the present self-paced 
method and hopes to receive, financial sup­
port through an EXXON grant. The im­
proved learning method, according to Ren­
nert, is a formula of “enthusiasm plus to­
tal immersion resulting in competent and 
confident students.”
The intensive audio-lingual program is 
open to all CMU students and eligible high 
school students. Three- hour daily sessions 
will be divided into four parts: two regular 
faculty- taught classes, work in the Lan­
guage Lab, and a drill session which will 
serve as a homework period. One student 
teacher in each language section will assist, 
under faculty supervision, in the Language 
Lab and drill periods.
A university-wide competition for chos- 
ing the assistant teachers will be held dur­
ing March and April. Students interested in 
the positions should contact the Language 
Department and arrange for an interview.
Students interested in the “Language 
Model” enrollment should contact the Reg­
istrar or Modern Language Department.
by Sherry Siegel 
When I was a freshman, I never quite 
understood what was meant by “student 
government,” and those I asked could give 
only hàzy relplies at best. It seemed to me 
incongruous that someone: could go
thourgh four years at CMU and not know 
how his student government was set up, if 
indeed Senate was all it claimed to be: that 
is, a liason between students and the ad­
ministration, and watchdog over “the wel­
fare of the student body.”
The following, then, is presented with the 
hope that students will at least become 
informed about Student Senate.
The term “Student Government” refers 
to the Student Senate plus the president of 
Senate.
A. President is elected by the entire 
student body, and serves as a pri­
mary student representative to and 
from the administration.
B. Senators are elected by College: 1 
senator represents 200 students.
1. Senate includes 4 standing com­
mittees: Academic Affairs, Gene­
ral Campus and Information, 
Finance, and Rules.
2. Chairperson of Senate is a sen­
ator who is elected to this posi­
tion by the other senators. Chair­
person moderates Senate meetings 
and votes if there is a tie.
Student Dormitory Council, United Frat­
ernal Organization, and the Carnegie 
Commuter Council of Pittsburgh are inde­
pendent orgainziations, though SDC and 
CCCP both receive funds from Senate.
WHO’S WHO AND WHAT THEY DID 
Because Senate elections well be held 
March 10 and 11, now is a good time to 
step back and see what has been accom­
plished this past year, and by whom.
A. President Pete Yacoe spent his time in 
various meetings of faculty, alumni, admin­
istration, and trustees. Yacoe also recom­
mended students (contingent on Senate’s 
approval) as representatives at meetings of 
Buildings & Grou. is, Academic Affairs, 
Finance, Planning & Development, and 
Auxiliary Services.
B. Rules Committee, with Ken Meinert as 
chairperson, is in charge of recognizing and 
intervieweing clubs who wish to use school 
facilities. Rules also settles any questions 
of procedure that may arise in the weekly 
Senate meetings.
Rules was instumental in moving the 
voting areas to Skibo, Morewood Gardens,
and Donner Hall. (In past elections, voting 
had been held in the individual colleges.)
C. Academic Affairs Committee, with 
David Roussos as chairperson, concentrates 
on the academic aspects of student life.
Presently the Committee is looking into 
revising the promotion and tenure 
so that students have a say (see TARTAN, 
February 22, 1977); the possibility of 
adopting a 4-M calendar; and complaints 
that CMU was negligent in providing 
scholarship information to qualified candi­
dates. The Committee is also concerned 
about and looking into the fact that, in the 
Spring 1976 Faculty Course Evaluation, 
two of the three people evaluated as the 
worst instructors at the University taught 
AMS courses.
D. Finance Committee with Don Simon 
as chairperson is mainly concerned with 
allocating money to student clubs and 
organizations.
Presently the committee is investigating 
the possibility of an increase in the Student 
Activities fee. (This will be in a referendum 
this coming election.) Finance also rec- 
commended that Senate pass certain 
changes regarding fiscal policy; that 
is, formalizing the criteria for allocating 
money.
E. General Campus and Information 
Committee, with Mark Kennet as chair­
person, is responsible for presenting infor­
mation to the student body, and is in 
charge of all election publicity. It is a 
kind of catch-all committee, concerned 
with matters that fall outside the range of 
the other committees.
The committee is presently involved with 
the drive to lower the legal drinking age 
in Pennsylvania and expects to meet 
soon with Security regarding the pos­
sibility of instituting night walking 
patrols. Currently night patrols are done 
in Security vans. The members of the com­
mittee are also investigating housing and 
food service prices.
In addition, Student Senate establishes 
the following external committees, which 
then become independent from Senate: 
Thistle, Spring Carnival,Child Care Scholarship 
Fund, Health Fund, Camegie-Mellon Student 
Corporation (for entrepreneurial projects) 
and Student Government Fund (for in­
novative programs devised by recognized 
student clubs.
Elections will be held Thursday, March 10 
from 1 pjn. to midnight, and Friday, March 
11 from 8 ajn. to 4 pjn.
Juris Silenwks, Head of the Language Department

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Is Senate Needed?
Struck by the usual semi-annual pangs of democratic con­
science, Student Senate is holding elections this week. The 
results are quite predictable. Only a small fraction of the stu­
dents wil vote, probably in the ball park of 10%. The new 
senate will engage in considerable rhetoric but little else. By 
the time they figure out just what a student senator is sup­
posed to do, it will be time for another election. About 10% 
of the students will vote and the cycle will continue. So 
what? Student Senate isn’t hurting anyone. Why should 
anyone care?
A good case can be made that Student Senate serves no 
useful purpose. The administration of the University has in­
tegrated student input into their decision making processes in 
such a way that input from Senate isn’t necessary. Students 
are already directly involved in matters ranging from Board 
of Trustees’ committees, to tuition committees, to the stu­
dent advisory committees on the departmental level. These 
are the forums where students can influence life at the Uni­
versity, not through Student Senate. It should be noted that 
when student unrest periodically flares up in departments, 
student input, such as through the S/4Cs, will be effectively 
non-existent. This attests to how useful the SA Cs and other 
forms of student input can be. This should be a warning to 
department heads that if they wish to avoid having angry 
students nailing petitions to their office doors they should 
meet with students regularly and listen to them. The willing­
ness of the administration to involve students in decision 
making is commendable, but unfortunately, this doesn’t leave 
Student Senate with much to do. While it is true that student 
members of a few of the important policy making committees 
in the University are appointed by Student Senate, appoint­
ing a few friends to these positions is not an arduous task.
The one area where Student Senate is able to exert some 
influence is in Student Activities through its management of 
the Student Activities Fee. While student activities do benefit 
most people indirectly through such things as the AB movies, 
only a small fraction of students are directly involved with 
them. Therefore, Senate’s involvement with financing these 
organizations really isn’t important to most students.
The current Senate has had some good intentions and has 
attempted to take some initiative in few areas. Most notably, 
Senate has worked on having students involved in tenure 
decisions and has encouraged development of a better system 
of evaluating faculty and courses.
There are many other areas where Student Senate should 
become involved. President Cyert has recently asked the 
Faculty Senate to evaluate his performance as president. Stu­
dents should be involved in this process too, and Student 
Senate is the logical group to demand this from Faculty Sen­
ate and the Administration. There are important issues affect­
ing students that Senate should investigate and become invol­
ved with, such as why on-campus housing is so much more 
expensive that comparable facilities off campus, or why can’t 
Food Service provide better quality food? Most students have 
bitter complaints about something, ther are plenty of issues 
for Student Senate to get involved with. However, time is 
Senate’s biggest enemy. When it attempts any project, the 
work tends to be half completed and then it is time for 
another election, new people come along, and what was ac­
complished is lost. Perhaps Senate would be more effective if 
it had elections less frequently and allowed Senators to serve 
longer.
Even with the amount of direct involvement in decision 
making that the Administration gives to students, there is still 
an important need for Student Senate. Student input on 
various committees is weakened because it is on the Adminis­
tration’s terms. All too often, students in a position on im­
portant committees are too passive. Instead of being vocal 
in standing up for the needs and views of their peers, these 
students are manipulated into defending the Administration 
in what it wants to do. Student Senate is needed to check 
this problem and to actively present the student’s views on 
important issues. But Senate can’t be effective at this if only 
10% of the students vote.
If everyone would merely vote this week, it would be a 
major step towards making Student Senate a legitimate and 
powerful representative of student interests.
Charles Mitch 
Editor
fteinß eye 1b eye...*, a. cr-yst*.! cie+r
Letters
Disgusting Movie 
Editor:
“Emmanuel II”, screened by 
SDC two Saturdays ago, was dis­
gusting.
No, this is not a tirade of prud­
ery. Rather, my objection is to 
the tone of the film, which was, 
albeit subtly and perhaps titillat- 
ingly, racist and colonialist. The 
only function of the ‘orientals’ in 
the film was the obsequious ful­
fillment of the libidinous instincts 
of a few Western men and women. 
To a person familiar with the 
phenomenon of colonialism and 
all of its trappings, it seemed just 
another version of a “Western 
Man’s (and Woman’s) Paradise” in 
an ‘exotic’ setting; to say the 
least, this amounts to the perpetu­
ation of an anachronism.
If the purpose of the film was 
to exhibit the liberated (sic) sexu­
al mores of the West, it would 
perhaps have been more convin­
cing in its natural habitat.
Vivek Bammi
AMS Defended
Editor:
A recent issue of the Tartan 
contained a letter to the editor 
from a reader who asked to re­
main anonymous. This person 
while being critical of the A&MS 
program made some allegations 
about the Career Services and 
Placement office. The writer 
charged that this office offered 
little help or assistance to A&MS 
students. The following facts I 
hope will counteract some of the 
erroneous allegations “Name 
Withheld” incorporated into his 
or her letter.
To the charge that this office 
does not market A&MS students I 
submit that an informative one 
page description of the A&MS 
program was designed and pro­
duced by this office and distribu­
ted to over 1100 employers. This 
item is also available to A&MS 
students in quantity as a supple­
ment to their resumes.
The writer claimed that cam­
pus interviews are few in number. 
During the 1975-76 academic year 
31 employers were at CMU to 
interview A&MS students. Sixteen 
students participated in 83 inter­
views with these employers on 
campus. So far during the current 
year A&MS students have already 
been interviewed on campus by 
25 employers representing bank­
ing, insurance and consulting 
firms and manufacturing compa­
nies in the chemicals, metals, 
pharmaceuticals, consumer pro­
ducts, ceramics, mechanical equip­
ment, electronics and business 
products industries. In addition, 
a number of students were also 
interviewed by employers who 
had not specifically sought inter­
views with A&MS students but 
were called to the attention of 
these firms through our open re­
sume file or students at the urging 
of our staff counselors established 
contact with the employers prior 
to their visits to campus.
Twenty-eight seniors have es­
tablished credential files with this
TARTAN
Volume 77March 8, 1977Number 19
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
RandelJ Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Popowitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay. Carol Dieter, Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R.V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

VIEWS
Senior Designers complain of Treatment from Midani
The following is a statement from 
the Senior Class, Department of 
Design, concerning the Senior 
Show.
To the best of the knowledge of 
the Senior Class, the following are 
facts that pertain to the conclu­
sion presented in a statement to 
follow.
1. In September, a joint pro­
posal for the renovation of the 
Fine Arts Faculty Lounge as a 
permanent exhibition space for 
the Architecture and Design De­
partments was prepared with the 
help of the students. The propos­
ed budget was approximately 
$20,000.00.
2. Professor Ballay, Head of 
the Design Department, consulted 
Professor Pohlman of the Archi­
tecture Department concerning 
construction documents for said
office, and many of these students 
have met with staff members to 
discuss their career interests and 
possible job strategies. Over 270 
employment interviews have 
taken place in our office between 
A&MS seniors and employers with 
approximately one month of ac­
tive campus recruiting remaining 
this spring.
The writer also claims that 
only six students in the Class of 
1976 obtained jobs related to 
their educational preparation. Ac­
cording to our records, twelve 
students have reported to us they 
are in jobs that I would character­
ize as administrative, supervisory 
or staff support. Nine A&MS 
graduates enrolled in full-time 
graduate studies; six did not res­
pond to our surveys, and two 
additional students are reported as 
employed but the information 
supplied about their jobs is so 
sparse as to prevent any deter­
mination of the nature of the po­
sitions they have taken.
I believe the A&MS program is 
an outstanding undergraduate 
management program that is the 
equal of many MBA offerings 
in rigor and content. It suffers 
largely because its name is not 
commonly applied to an under­
graduate curricula and, accord­
ingly, is not readily recognizable 
by many employers. It is for this 
reason we published and distribu­
ted the informational piece I 
referred to earlier to a wide audi­
ence of potential employers.
J. Dennis Ryan 
Director,
Career Services and Placement 
Fruits
Editor:
I am an engineering student 
in my junior year here at CMU. 
What is so significant about that is 
I will soon be in a position of hav­
ing to find a job. Although, I will 
be contacting prospective em­
ployers off-campus, for the most 
part I will be trying to sell myself 
to corporative representives who 
visit this campus. Therefore, it is 
psychologically more sound for 
them to be pleased with the cam­
pus than not.
renovation, which were then pre­
sented to Dean Midani.
3. Given a budget constraint 
of $20,000.00, Dean Midani ap­
proved the proposal.
4. The first opening date for 
the Senior Show in the renovated 
room was set for February 14th.
5. In early January, the class 
was informed by Professor Ballay 
that the show opening would be 
postponed until March 18, 1977.
6. Contractors were request­
ed to place bids on the renova­
tion.
7. Bids exceeded the budget 
by from $5,000.00 to $6,000.00.
£. In late February, senior 
design students were informed 
that Dean Midani would not 
release funds for the renovation of 
the Fine Arts Faculty Lounge as 
planned. The date of the Senior 
Show was postponed indefinitely.
My point is, how can anyone 
find this campus pleasing? Its lo­
cation is undesireable (just a mile 
and a half from the closest steel 
mill smoke stack). A lot of the cur­
riculum is useless (what do I need 
to do with an H&SS course). But 
I was never as outraged with this 
school as I was two weeks ago.
After leaving the Kiltie Cafe 
where I had dinner, I was walking 
back to Donner Hall. I decided to 
walk by the fence since I had 
heard that some of my buddies 
from the frat had painted it the 
night before. Walking from Doher­
ty Hall to the side entrance of the 
College of Fine Arts building was 
an interviewer I had talked to that 
morning. He was with a couple of 
other guys and I figured that he 
was being given a tour of the cam­
pus. Well, standing outside of the 
side door were two men kissing 
and hugging each other. How the 
hell can I be expected to be hired 
by a company if they think all 
CMU students are fruits!! I don’t 
mean to pass judgement on homo­
sexuality, but I don’t think it 
should be flaunted on the streets 
of Carnegie-Mellon!!!
A junior who has 
his future in mind
Responding to Opposition
Editor:
In response to the “Vehement 
Opposition” letter, let me say that 
Mr. Gibbs could not be more in­
correct. The Boltzmann Distribu­
tion Law is not only fair, it is 
quite parlimentary. Furthermore, 
to state that this law is discrimina­
tory is analogous to saying that 
(dP/dT)s=(dS/dV)t is socialistic. I 
hope you will kindly refer to your 
copy of Robert's Rules of Order 
before issuing such libel in the 
future.
J. C. Maxwell 
Amazement
Editor:
I am absolutely amazed at the 
number of inconsiderate, selfish 
students there are in the dormi­
tories. I find loud stereos, radios, 
televisions et^ extremely annoy-
9. Senior design students 
were informed by Professor Ballay 
that if there was to be a show, a 
maximum of $1,000.00 could be 
made available from a depart­
mental budget.
Students themselves, would 
have to build the display fixtures 
over the Spring Break. The show 
would last for the period of one 
week at the convenience of the 
Architecture Department.
10. Other alternative plans 
were discussed:
A. A printed publication 
of the publication of the Sen­
ior Projects
B. A show using the facili­
ties of the Design Department
C. Public presentation- 
one night- at an alternate cam­
pus location.
Based on the above history, it is
ing and I know I’m not the only 
one. Theres is no reason why any­
one has to turn a stereo up so 
loud that it can be heard from a 
room about 50 feet away from 
the elevator on the second floor, 
in the elevator on the seventh 
floor.
It happens all the time -usually 
on Friday nights from 10 pm to 
1 am and Sunday from 10 am 
until 11 pm.
Doctors say that prolonged noise 
at high volume causes deafness. I 
suppose that means that soon 
they will turn everything up more 
because they can’t hear.
If I had my way, I would cut 
their cords.
Going Deaf in E-Tower 
Parking
Editor:
I was very amused by William 
Dillon’s “reply” to the “Concern­
ed Commuter ” in the last issue of 
the TARTAN. He somehow 
managed to get quite upset with 
the “Concerned Commuter” while 
failing to answer the point which 
the letter raised. This was that 
the University was breaking the 
law when Security ticketed or in 
any other way interfered with cars 
parked only on campus property. 
According to the “ Concerned 
Commuter” the only recourse the 
University has when a car is
the consensus of the Senior De­
sign Class that:
1. Professor Ballay failed to 
inform the class of the problems 
of budgeting and contractors’ 
bids.
2. Bids were high due to late 
requests for same from contrac­
tors.
3. Students continually acted 
in good faith as indicated by per­
formance and attitude in the light 
of constant reassurances by Pro­
fessor Ballay that the show would 
open. Projects were designed spec­
ifically for presentation in the ren­
ovated Fine Arts Faculty Lounge.
4. Students were unaware of 
a need for alternate proposals un­
til February 25, 1977.
5. Alternate plans for the 
senior Show are undesirable:
Printed Publication- ex­
treme expense with no guaran-
parked in the wrong spot is to call 
the police and have the car towed.
I think it is important for the 
campus community to find out 
if present Security procedures are 
illiegal, and if so, that steps are 
being taken that will eliminate 
any such practices.
I am looking forward to 
reading Mr. Dillon’s reply to this 
letter.
A Concerned Student 
Room Rates
Editor:
With room rates going up $75 
already, and in view of the 
proposed increase in food 
contract and tuition, I can only 
hope that Auxiliary Services 
decides not to further burden 
dormitory students with the cost 
of Student Centrex.
The most important choice 
that will be ended with the 
Centrex system will be whether to 
have a private phone. At least 50% 
of dormitory students decide not 
to have their own phones. I think 
it is extremely unfair for them, or 
any other dorm student, who 
doesn’t want or need a standard 
ugly black phone, to be 
unnecessarily and unjustifiably 
forced to pay for it.
teed source of funds; dispro­
portionate effort by students; 
late date of realization (pro­
jected completion: three days 
before commencement); inap­
propriate medium for presenta­
tion of student’s projects.
Show in the Design De­
partment* limited exposure; 
limited space; inappropriate 
medium for presentation; no 
guaranteed source of funds.
One Night Campus Pre­
sentation- inappropriate medi­
um; limited exposure.
6. As students of the Design 
Department, we have looked for­
ward to our Senior Show with 
great anticipation as an opportu­
nity to present our capabilities as 
professionals to the public, expe- 
cially those outside the campus 
community. This is traditionally 
the purpose of the Design Depart­
ment Senior Show.
Commitment of the faculty, as 
well as the administration, of the 
college of Fine Arts has been less 
than supportive of these efforts.
We present the following state­
ment to arouse interest in a series 
of events that have had an unsatis­
factory conclusion, that those 
events will not occur again.
We the undersigned members of 
the Senior Class of the Design De­
partment, after considerable de­
liberation of the alternatives to the 
Senior Show, have elected and 
ratified the following:
1. That we shall finish our 
Senior Projects, for our own port­
folios and consideration for a 
grade.
2. That there shall be no 
participation as a class or depart­
ment in a Senior Show.
3. That there shall be no pub­
lication of this work.
4. That we shall have a class 
review of the Senior Projects.
Members of the 
Senior class 
Editor’s Note: The above state­
ment was signed by 36 members 
of the Senior Class of the Design 
Department.
The TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. All letters for 
publication must be signed. 
Names will be withheld upon 
request.The Owner of a Blue Phone
TARTAN EDITORIAL BOARD ELECTIONS
On March 9 in room 11 Skibo, the TARTAN will hold elections for tne 
following positions:
Editor in Chief 
News Editor
7.30 pm Entertainment Editor
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor in Chief must be members of the TARTAN staff. All other Editorial positions 
are open to any CMU student. A member of the TARTAN staff is any one who has written two ar­
ticles in the last four issues of the TARTAN, or anyone whose name is listed in the masthead. All 
members of the TARTAN staff are eligible to vote.
Those interested should inquire at the TARTAN office. Skibo 52.
more Letters

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS«.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
Notice AM Residents of the Dormitories:
Remember the important dates for Room 
Retention and Room Selection: 
UNDERGRADUATES:
March 16, 1977-S100 Housing Deposit due 
March 21, 1977-Freshman Room Draw 
March 22, 1977-Sophomore Room Draw 
March 23, 1977-Junior Room Draw 
March 30, 31, 1977-Room Retention All 
Classes.
April 18, 1977-Junior Room selection 
April 19, 1977-Sophomore Room selection 
April 30, 1977-Freshman Room selection 
GRADUATES:
March 16, 1977-$100 Housing Deposit due 
March 25, 1977-Housing Application due 
April 15, 1977-Notification of Room 
Assignment.
April 29. 1977-Housing License Agreement 
due
Entertainers wanted! Anyone interested in
participating in Spring Carnival's continu­
ous entertainment show on the Midway 
please leave name & number at Skibo Info 
Desk. Ali singers, musicians, or organiza­
tions are needed to make this venture a 
success. Spring Carnival NEEDS YOU!
Artists. Any person interested in selling
their work at the Arts & Crafts festival 
during Spring Carnival leave your name & 
number at Skibo Information Desk. There 
is a small entrance fee, but the individual 
artist is entitled to all sales profits. The 
hours of the festival will be friday April 22 
& Saturday April 23 12-6; the location 
will be outside near the Midway.
ETHICS & BUSINESS: What ethical norms
are encouraged by the present structure of 
American Business enterprise? Panel in­
clude: Sr. Jane Scully, President of Carlow 
College and Director of Gulf Oil Corpora­
tion; Marshall Evans, Ret. Off., Westing- 
house; Rabbi Joseph Levine, Drector of the 
B'nai B'rith Hillel; Paul Schrading, Exec. 
Minister, U. A. C. M.; Jane Hart, GSIA, 
Carnegie-Mellon; and Daniel Rosenblum, 
SUPA, Carnegie-Mellon. Sponsored by 
Campus Program Planning Dept, of A&MS, 
and the Campus Ministry Council. Tues­
day, March 8 at 7:30 pm in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
TARTAN Editorial Board Elections—At 
7:30 pm on March 9 in Room 11 Skibo, 
the TARTAN will hold elections for the 
following positions: Editor in Chief, News 
Editor, Entertainment Editor,Folio Editor, 
Sports Editor, Photography Editor. 
Candidates for Editor in Chief must be 
members of the TARTAN staff.
All other editorial positions are open to 
any CMU student.
A member of the TARTAN staff is any­
one whose name is listed in the masthead 
or has written two articles in the last four 
issues preceding the election.
All members of the TARTAN staff are 
eligible to vote. The entire staff votes for 
Editor in Chief. Each assigning editor is 
elected by the respective staff (e.g., the 
sports editor is elected by the sports staff).
Forbes Street Gallery, Carnegie-Mellon
University, 5200 Forbes Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, Pa., 412-683-9105, Tuesday thru 
Sunday: 12-4, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs­
day: 7-9. Exhibitors: Nancy Bink, Dennis 
Hatton, and Jim Berry will be showing 
Graphic Design work. <
The H&SS Academic Advisory Center will
sponsor a series of March meetings dealing 
with H&SS majors, their requirements, and 
career opportunities for graduates. De­
partments meetings will be held at 3:30 pm 
in the locations indicated below:
Wednesday, March 9-Modern Languages & 
Literatures BH 230
Thursday,March 10-History & Philosophy
BH 246A
Friday,Marchl 1-Economics BH 255A
Monday,March 14-Social Relations
BH 232F
Tuesday,March 15-Social SciencesBH 255A
Wednesday,March 16-English BH 255A
Thursday,March 17-Psychology BH 336B
Friday,March 18-Student Defined Majors 
Double Majors, Prof.Subfields BH255A 
STUDENTS FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE 
WELCOME.
The SARC Summer Job Directory bas been
released. Any student interested in seeing 
the directory, should go to the Skibo In­
formation Desk, or University Placements 
Office. The SARC committee expresses 
their gratitude to the Placements Office, 
Alumni Office, and President Cyert, for 
their assistance and support. The commit­
tee also wishes good luck to all the stu­
dents appearing in the directory, and urges 
any student who is contacted through the 
directory to inform Pat Urbanic, in the 
Alumni Office.
PREMEDS: The New Medical College Ad­
mission Test is required for the 1978 enter­
ing class for Schools of Medicine, Osteo­
pathic Medicine and Podiatric Medicine. 
See A. J. Streiff, DH 2114, for your New 
MCAT Registration Packet which is avail­
able now. The Registration Packet must 
be postmarked by April 4, 1977 for the 
April 30 test. New MCAT Student Manuals 
are available in the CMU Bookstore.
The Environmental Intern Program an­
nounces that it is currently accepting appli­
cations from students and interested indi­
viduals for its 1977 Spring/Summer pro­
gram. EIP handles paid internships 
throughout New England and New York. 
Internships deal with a variety of projects 
in environmental management, and candi­
dates from both natural sciences and liberal 
arts are invited to apply. Applications are 
available at Placement Offices, School De­
partments or from EIP headquarters, c/o 
Massachusetts Audubon Society,-Lincoln, 
MA 01773. The deadline for receipt of 
applications is midnight, March 16, 1977.
PASSOVER. CMU Students, faculty and
staff who wish home hospitality or Pass- 
over meals, and/or Sedar at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, should call the Hillel Office, 
621-8875.
The CMU Science Fiction Club meets
every Sunday in Room 11, SKIBO. New 
members are always welcome.
West Virginia University will host the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
(ASME) Region V 1977 Regional Student 
Conference (RSC) on March 31 -April 2. 
Activities at this year's conference will in­
clude: student paper presentations, basket­
ball tournament, tours and exhibits includ­
ing a visit inside an underground coal mine, 
a "special” interest contest, lots of fine 
food and an excellent opportunity to meet 
other student members. All members of 
the American Society of Mechanical Engi­
neers (ASME) at Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity are urged to attend and should see 
your Faculty Advisor Prof. Wolfgang A. 
Sauer for more details.
The Carnegie Printers Alumni Association
of Carnegie-Mellon University will hold 
their annual seminar April 21, 22, and 23 
at the university's Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration.
The seminar will focus on CMU's new 
undergraduate Graphic Communications 
Management Program and the role the 
university expects to play in providing 
undergraduate, graduate and continuing 
education programs for the printing indus­
try. Seminar topics will include the appli­
cation of computer technology to the 
printing industry both in management in­
formation systems and as a production 
tool. CMU faculty speakers will also des­
cribe specific courses offered in the Gra­
phic Communications Management Pro­
gram, which is due to begin in September 
1977.
For reservations and further information, 
contact Edward W. Evans, program chair­
man of the Carnegie Printers Alumni 
Association and head of Carnegie-Mellon's 
Graphic Communications Management 
Program, Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
The Summer Studies Office of CMU is
looking to hire a staff of resident counsel­
ors to coordinate and supervise a student 
life program for high school students at­
tending the University's Advanced Place­
ment/Early Admissions, Fine Arts Pre- 
College and Project Upward Bound Pro­
grams.
Counselors must be energetic and willing 
to live and work closely with the programs' 
participants. Compensation includes room 
and board for the six-weeks session, June 
27 through August 5.
Applications, along with detailed job des­
criptions, are available in the Admissions 
Office, first floor of Warner Hall.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
CMU-EPFL Undergraduate Exhange Pro­
gram. Enrollment in the undergraduate ex­
change program with Ecole Polytechnique 
Federale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland 
(cf. pages 70-71 in latest undergraduate 
catalog) is now open for selected freshmen 
in engineering and applied science. This 
program provides an international dimen­
sion to the educational process and offers 
exceptional opportunities for cultural en­
richment, an outstanding technical educa­
tion and exciting prospects for employ­
ment following graduation. Further details 
may be obtained at orientation sessions 
scheduled on Friday, February 4, Tuesday, 
February 15, Thursday, February 24 and 
Friday, March 18 at 4:30 pm in Science 
Hall 4327 or through Megan McCaffrey, 
Science Hall 4321 (ext, 358).
Israeli dancing sponsored by B'nai B'rith
Hillel takes place every Thursday, at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 315
S. Belief ¡eld.
STUDENTS' DORMITORY COUNCIL will
meet in Skibo Room 100 on Sunday. All 
dormitory residents are invited to attend.
Anyone interested in becoming a member 
of council or working on one of the com­
mittees should contact Sam Grego in 
Donner Hall or leave their name in the 
SDC mailbox at the Skibo Info. Desk.
Volunteers needed: To help teachers in
special classroom for Educably Mentally 
Retarded students at Reizenstien Middle 
School. Mornings. Please inquire at Office 
of Teacher Education, 239 Baker Hall for 
further Information. , , ..........Intt
Department of Psychology, CMU will
present DR. Ebbe B. Ebbesen, University 
of California and Bell Laboratories. Top­
ic: JUDGING JUDGES' JUDGMENTS: A 
SOCIAL-PSYCHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS 
OF LEGAL DECISION-MAKING. Thurs­
day, March 10 at 3:30 p.m. BH 340-A. A 
Colloquium Series.
scholarships awards prizes
CREATIVE WRITING CONTEST OF­
FERS CASH AND BOOK PRIZES Writers: 
You can win $100; $50; or $25 in cash 
and book prizes for best short story, hu­
morous essay, or other short pieces be­
tween 250 and 1000 words—with free copy 
of winning COLLEGE CONTEMPORAR­
IES Magazine for all—if you enter the Col­
legiate Creative Writing Contest. The 
deadline is MAY 5. For rules and official 
entry form, send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope to: International Publications, 
4747 Fountain Ave, Dept. C-3, Los Angel­
es, CA 90029.
classified
Wanted: Apartment. Shadyside; Highland.
CMU staff mamber, school-age child, cat. 
363-4618 evenings.
Summer Sublet: Squirrel Hill Apt. North­
umberland & Wightman. Three bdrms, liv­
ing room and kitchen,furnished. $75 
month, utilities paid. 421-9945
EUROPE via Pan Am 707 for Less than 1/2
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent 
60-day advance payment required. Uni- 
Travel Charters
The Alternative bash a new coffeehouse,
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave., Friday, March 11,7:00 pm-Midnight. 
Food, conversation, Live Entertainment. 
St. Patrick Special!
Graduate students wanted to share a house
on Northumberland St, May 1. 421-3944
Self-Hypnosis Workshop, Terminate Smok­
ing Clinic. Write to Mr. TA. 5528 Raleigh 
St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for
future jobs—PICA, ELITE, SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary, 761-8584
SELF-DEFENSE TRAINING FOR WO­
MEN taught by Feminist Karate Union. 
Classes begin 4/4. 276-4527; 521-0902.
Typing —CC Theses, Dissertations, term
papers, etc. Ask about free copying service. 
Call Janice 421-6483
Summer Jobs: Fifty State catalogue of
over 2000 summer job employers (with 
application forms). Send $2 to: SUM- 
CHOICE, Box 645, State College, Pa. 
16801
Graduate Students, Faculty, Staff - Get to­
gether for divorced/separated and single 
parents March 10, 8:30pm at 4040 Bigelow 
Blvd. For more information call Nancy 
..Gira,661-3181.- \ j. ; ^

---------------------------------------------------

Week in Review
Ugandan President Idi Amin cancelled his
scheduled meeting with American residents 
of his country once again. The unreliable 
dictator is continuing to accuse President 
Carter of desiring to invade the East 
African nation, calling the American Presi­
dent’s concern over Amin’s recent order 
denying Americans the privilege of leaving 
Uganda on excuse. Reports from refugees 
who have succeeded in escaping depict 
Amin’s troops systematically killing Chris­
tians, adult and child, who are on a 7000 
name death list.
Former West German Chancellor Willy
Brandt, who is currently the National 
Chairman of West Germany’s Ruling Social 
Democratice Party is coming to the United 
States for a week. During his visit, Brandt 
will talk to Vice President Walter Móndale 
and Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and he 
amy call President Carter.
California Director of the Department of
Water Resources warned that should the 
current drought in the West continue an­
other year, California alone stands to lose 
over $6 billion. Testimony before a Con­
gressional Subcommittee in San Francisco 
suggested that draoughts could also be ex­
pected to raise the state’s unemployment 
rate by 2.9%.
Two months of violent political campaign­
ing in Pakistan will be culminated on Mon­
day, March 8, in national elections. The 
bloody ending in which members of one 
political party ambushed the other, killing 
one political workier, brought to 30 the 
toll of those murdered in political clashes 
throughout the campaign.
by Wendolf Dolson 
Financial Columnist: Mike Davis 
UPI Wire Service courtesy of WRCT'
The first Afro-Arab summit commences
March 8; member of 59 Arab and African 
nations including representatives of the 
Palestinian Liberation Organization. The 
conference was falling apart before opening 
due to the controversial African demands 
for greater financial adid from the oil-rich 
Arab states. The near collapse 
was averted, however by a compromise 
agreement in which Arabs pledged 
increased financial aid without mentioning 
any specific figures.
The 1977 session of the Geneva Depart­
ment Conference commenced with a 
bilateral call from the United States and 
Soviet Union to ban all nuclear testing. 
Controversy continues on how the ban 
should be enforced; Russia insists that 
the test ban include China and France, who 
aren’t participating in the talks. The Mexi­
can delegate suggested that perhaps those 
countries might join if the U.S. and Russia 
would forego their cochairmanship of the 
conference.
A group of about 1000, claiming to be
the Unemployed Workers Organizaing 
Committee, demonstrated before the White 
House. The protest was in an effort to 
change the administration’s plans to re­
strict unemployment payments to 52 
weeks (they are currently at 65 weeks). 
The UWOC contends that the proposed 
reduction would force thousands of work­
ers into either taking low-paying jobs or 
going on welfare.
James Earl Ray, convicted assassin of 
Martin Luther King,Jr., May soon be testi­
fying before the House Assassination 
Committee. According to panel member 
Walter Fauntroy (D.C.), Ray wrote to the 
committee, expressing his willingness to 
talk about the 1968 slaying. The Commit­
tee is still plagued by internal problems 
surrounding the Chairman’s effort to fire 
the staff director.____________________
Israeli Prime Minister Rabin has come to
Washington to meet with President Carter, 
assumably in an effort to convince the 
President to reverse his current stand 
against the Israeli sale of 24 K.F.I.R. jet 
fighters to Ecaudor. Although Rabin didn’t 
list it when he briefed reporters, Jerusalem 
sources say Rabin isn’t expected to seek 
military or economic aid on this visit. The 
Israeli Government had hoped to realize as 
estimated $150 million from the sale of the 
jets, built with American engines.
Police and students clashed at Rome
University Saturday night, exchaning 
insults, followed by gunfire, teargas gre­
nades and gasoline bombs. The squads of 
riot police were struggling to prevent the 
7000 demonstrators from storming Rome’s 
jail. The March was in protest of the sen­
tencing of a left-wing colleague to nine 
years imprisonment for his part in last 
year’s murder of a right-wing Greek stu­
dent.
Great Britian and France are criticizing
the Carter administration for their lack of 
support of New York landing rights for the 
Anglo-French Concorde Airline. The Presi­
dent maintained that he won’t interfere in 
the March 10 meeting of state officials that 
will decide the issue. Carter did, however 
call Hugh Carey to relay the opinion of the 
French president to him.
Tons of water broke through a coal face
deep inside the Kotcher Company Coal 
Mine, near Tower City, Pa. March 1, trap­
ping eight men, killing two, and seriously 
injuring another three. Of the eight trap­
ped, one has been rescued and the bodies 
of two others were recovered (although 
only one has been identified.) The chances 
that the last five are alive are slim, as 
delicate seismographic equipment has de­
tected no response to standard signal 
dynamite blasts.
A study released by the General Account­
ing Office (GAO), reported that continual­
ly rising costs could push the expense of 
the B-l bomber several billion dollars over 
current estimates. It further-indicated that 
the bomberi is structural strength hasn:t be 
been adequately tested. The GAO suggest­
ed that the Pentagon should conduct fur­
ther analysis to determine the risks in­
volved in going into production without 
further knowledge surrounding the perfor­
mance of the plane’s airframe at higher 
loads. Opposition to the B-l program is 
continuing to mount as Secretary of State 
Vance accepted a batch of anti-bomber 
petitions from protestors bearing 1400 sig­
natures.
President Jimmy Carter talked to 42
Americans during the two hour “Ask Pres­
ident Carter” program that was moderated 
by Walter Cronkite and carried by the CBS 
radio network. Carter took both scolding 
and tributes answering questions where he 
could or promising that an expert in the 
field would answer the call the next week. 
The President assured one caller that he 
had no plane to reinstate a compulsory 
draft and promised another that he would 
push for creation of a consumer protection 
agency. Other subjects breasted included 
possibility of a gasoline tax the plight of 
those Americans in Uganda, and a few 
insights into Carter’s personal life.
Proponents of a $3.00 hourly minimum
wage with automatic adjustments for cost 
of living are now finalizing their proposal 
for Congress. The increase is considered 
top-priority by the AFL-CIO and is strong­
ly endorsed by Secretary of Labor F. Ray 
Marshall. Opposition is attempting to 
exempt teen-age workers, but supporters 
strongly oppose this; they warn that such 
clauses would simply take jobs from older 
workers, favoring, instead, teenagers.
Former Pentagon Official Paul Wamke is
running into further trouble in the Senate 
with his nomination by top disarmament 
posts. Previously doubted for his “dovish” 
views, Wamke is now losing his credibility, 
having allegedly changed past statements 
in his effort to win confirmation.
A severe earthquake struck Eastern
Europe, devastating Romania. The quake, 
reaching 7.2 on the Richter scale, was epi- 
centered in Bucharest, but the tremor was 
felt from Moscow to Rome. Romania has 
officially requested aid from the United 
States for the victims of March 4 disaster. 
Work crews continue to uncover bodies as 
they dig through the debris, and although 
the official death toll stands at 580obser­
vers believe that as many as 4000 may have 
been lost in Bucharest and the surrounding 
countryside.
The stock mardet advanced sharply last
week with the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average rising over 20 points. Trading 
volume was very low and was attributed to 
investor indecision. The gain was consider­
ed a technical rally as many of the stocks 
had previously been considered oversold 
yet the market still seems to be bothered 
by inflationary worries. Federal Reserve 
Board Chairman Arthur Bums claims the j 
Carter Administration proposed economic | 
stimulis will boost interest rates. He 
warned about increasing inflation. On the 
other hand, Treasury Secretary Blumenthal i 
claims attacking inflation is just as import-1 
ant as unemployment to the Admisistra- j 
tion. So investors do not know what the i 
future will bring. In other financial news,j 
the price of gold hit $144 an ounce on} 
the London market and the International 
Monetary Fund sold over 500,000 ounces: 
of gold at $146.51 the same day the high - i 
est price in months. ? > -
Who«cares?
Who cares about smoggy skies and polluted lakes. 
About empty cans and trash littering our country­
side. About plants and trees dying in our forests. And 
animals too. Who cares? Woodsy Owl, the Nation’s 
new battler for a clean environment cares. And so 
should you. Join Woodsy in the fight against pollution.
Be careful with fire: 
There are babes 
in the woods.
And those baby animals and trees need a 
place where they can grow up strong and 
healthy. The forest is their home. When you 
come to visit, please don’t burn it down.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—TARTAN—March 8, 1977
TARTAN QUESTIONALE FOR STUDENT SENATE CANDIDATES
MIS C1)
problems. The most efficient way to pre­
vent detrimental occurences is to build an 
organizational structure such that upon en­
trance of chaos and confusion, our relative 
area operations act according to strategy 
the situations dictates. Present problems 
can easily be resolved or relinquished into 
benificial university functions by following 
these procedures.
The university administration can be 
made more responsive to the needs of the 
students through tactful stimuli induced by 
Student Government.
I feel that I am a creative, sensitive and 
intelligent human being, and that my back­
ground in writing will enable me, as a Sen­
ator, to express my own ideas and those of
Qualifications: SUPA graduate student 
with BS Engineering from Northwestern 
University. Former elected member of 
student government at both universities.
Verterán anti-war and student activist.
Member of National Student Coalition 
Against Rascism, Young Socialist Al­
liance.
Platform:
1) Oppose tuition and dorm rate in­
creases.
2) For elected student voting-member-
ship on promotion committees. |
3) Activities-fee referendum binding “
on S. G. J
4) Solidarity with Southern African %
Blacks against racial oppression. ¿
5) For Equal Rights Amendment, wo- 3
men’s right to choose on abortion. 2
C
Richard Scherer *o 
o
My experience in dealing with CMU af- o
fairsjas_well intracollegiate policy for three a
ypart, frpjt) joy fnnnrtinp and Direc- Senate should be< involved in student-
torship of the International Association of administration relationships and student-
Beverly Rubanoff
I am a sophomore in the biology depart­
ment. I want to become involved with 
senate to get at the roots of some problems 
confronting us as students.
The major issues which I believe Stu­
dent Senate should be concerned with are:
1) Decreasing student apathy towards 
Student Senate.
2) Increasing informational sources.
3) Increasing the effectiveness of Stu­
dent Senate by establishing a sys­
tem of priorities.
Richard Bay-Ramyon
I feel my qualifications meet the de­
mands of the office. I am responsible, 
open-minded and a seasoned veteran of this 
university (a junior Chem. EPP). I under­
stand the needs & problems of my consti­
tuents nnd have the desire to serve. My 
view is that the major issue at hand is the 
budget. My approach to this problem will 
be a practical one, with it’s goal to maxi­
mize the utility of the majority of the stud­
ents at the present cost.
Melanie Kneip
As a sophomore in Chemical Engineer­
ing, T will fairly help represent CIT in Stud­
ent Senate. Voicing my constituency’s con-
Regarding issues, 
person Activities Fee is sufficient for a 
school of this size located in a metropoli­
tan area. Also, Senate should more actively 
support special-intérest groups on campus 
by making funds more easily accessible.
CFA (3)
Jim Burford
Into Student Senate, I bring, as an in­
cumbent, a background of professional 
government administrative experience, and 
teaching.
I feel Fine Arts has not been adequately 
represented in the past in the areas of fi­
nancial aid and général university recogni-
tion.
Candidates for President: in less than 250 
words please give 1) your qualifications to 
be President of Student Government, 
2) a description of the major issues which 
you feel Student Government should be 
concerned with, 3) a description of how 
the University administration can be made 
more responsive to the needs of students.
Candidates for Student Senate: in less than 
50 words please give 1) your qualifications 
to be a Student Senator, 2) a description of 
the major issues which you feel Student 
Senate should be concerned with.
PRESIDENT
Rick Edahl
It is commonly stated that students are 
apathetic. But students are not indifferent 
toward tuition hikes, rising dormitory 
rates, overcrowded facilities, and dismissal 
of highly-regarded professors. What stu­
dents are apathetic about are the secretive 
and meaningless operations of Student 
Government. One example of S. G. im­
potence was the passing of a resolution 
condemning a proposed S75/resident cen- 
trex phone system. One Senator asked 
what would be done if this proposal was 
effected. Only an embarrassed silence was 
the reply.
Students need a S. G. that will fight for 
their interests and which will organize, not 
just give lip service, to opposing rate hikes. 
S. G. should also lead students in becoming 
involved in movements such as majority 
rule in Southern Africa, upcoming school 
desegregation in Pittsburgh, defense of 
women’s right to choose on abortion, and 
passage of the federal Equal Rights Amend­
ment. It is the student body, not bureau­
cratic manuevering that is the key. What 
we need is an activist student government!
Theatre Arts Inc., The World Center for 
Electrical Music and Sound System Re­
search and Development, President of the 
CMU Art Guild, membership on Student 
Senate, Activities Board and Spring Carni­
val Committee.
It is imperative that Student Govern­
ment legislate creative action by adopting 
methods of inter- institutional cooperation 
which provide satisfactory management of 
systems by and for all. Through logically 
sound proposals we can initiate ascensions 
into departmental realms of common de­
nomination via coordination. Problems in 
every area may be eliminated by resolu­
tions based on by-lateral representation 
and equation.
The main issue here is the establishment 
of a governing principal; exercising sound 
judgement in practical matters. The only 
way to freely determine a favorable coarse 
is through the execution of unwavering 
prudence Ex Cathedra.
The greatest concern facing students 
cannot be categorized into particular prob­
lems, for there will always be problems. It 
is our handeling of such ordeals as they a- 
rise which effect future, hence present
H&SS C1)
Linda Deak
Being a sophomore in H&SS I've no­
ticed that students in my constituency feel 
alienated toward their own college. A solu­
tion to this problem in H&SS would help 
pinpoint and solve similar problems exist­
ing in other colleges. Problem solving at 
the lower level of the university should be 
a major issue in the Senate, as it will inevi­
tably benefit the entire university.
Teri Meehan
aided evaluations of faculty for tenure in 
addition to budget and financing projects.
also running
Stan Pruchnic
CIT (3)
Michael D. Alston
cerns, ideas, and complaints will be my 
aim. I believe Student Senate should pre­
sently be concerned with limiting the activ-
dent Senate which is presently working to 
improve the channels of student input in 
decisions of faculty promotion and tenure 
in the various colleges.
John J. Golec
A genuine concern to discover and voice 
student problems along with a desire to im­
prove the effectiveness of Student Senate 
have led me to seek the position of Student 
Senator.
ities fee to $25 and developing a promo­
tional procedure which includes student 
input.
also running
Lyle A. Bums 
James Gasbarro 
Eugene V. Monaco
I am a sophomore majoring in Electrical 
Engineering, with a minor in AMS, I am a 
Student Court juror and an active member 
of the Academic Affairs Committee of Stu-

---------------------------------------------------

Vivian Kerstein
I am presently a senator from CFA. Be­
fore attaining my seat, I was involved with 
issues such as the appeal to last year’s pres­
idential election.
Senate’s concern should be 1) budgeting 
and overcrowding of the university 2) 
opening the lines of communication by 
creating meetings between representatives 
from departments’ SACs and the senators 
of their constituency.
Steven E. Kibert
We have at CMU an educational schizo­
phrenia with the school claiming to give 
both a professional and a liberal education 
and not delivering very well in either.
I intend to work towards improving the 
professional quality and expanding the lib­
eral arts opportunities for CMU students 
with particular focus on the College of 
Fine Arts.
GSIA (1)
No Candidate On Ballot
it's your senate, 
it's your voice.
POLLING 
THURSDAY, MARCH 10r 
FROM 1:00 PM TO MIDNIGHT 
FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 
FROM 8:00 AM TO 4:00 PM
AT THE
FOLLOWING PLACES
ELECTION:REFERENDUM:
PRESIDENTSHOULD CMU
STUDENTINCREASE ITS
SENATEACTIVITIES FEE?
DONNER HALL
If your address is 
Margaret Morrison 
or Roselawn
MOREWOOD
If you live in 
Morewood
SKIBO
All others— 
Commuters, Frats, 
Etc.
THE HOPEFULS SPEAK
FORUM: March 9, 1977, 4:00 PM, Wherrett Room
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
get involved

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—TARTAN—March 8, 1977
Students Endorse Journalism Course
by Jeffrey Freed
During this semester, English Professor 
David Demarest has taught a new course, 
Advanced Composition Journalism, giving 
twenty-two students an opportunity to do 
actual reporting and journalistic writing.
The March 2 issue of FOCUS, the faculty 
and staff newspaper, is largely a product of 
these students’ efforts. Also, some students 
are working for the Public Relations Office 
and on Student Affairs publications like 
the Parents’ Bulletin.
Demarest assigned students to various 
beats on campus. The students then deve­
loped contacts on their beats and began re­
porting on activities occurring within it.
The class meets three times a week to dis­
cuss the status of students’ articles, whom 
to contact, what approaches to use, and 
which leads to follow.
Some students prefer that class time be 
used as a journalistic workshop. Others 
would rather devote class time to learning 
the principles of journalism. Demarest be­
lieves that the class “should operate like 
the editorial room of a newspaper,” adding 
that “the class is used as a meeting time 
rather than as an instruction time.” He de­
fends his position, saying “I talked to stu­
dents about how to best do the course.” 
Most students feel that a stronger back­
ground in journalistic prinicples would 
have been desirable, but that one semester 
was not enough time to cover both the
theoretical and practical aspects of journal­
ism.
On the whole, students are enthusiastic 
about the course. One said,“ This is the 
best course I’ll take at CMU.” Students 
report learning from the New YorkTimes 
(each student has a subscription), keeping 
notebooks in which they keep their drafts 
and record their own reactions to lectures, 
and reporting from their assigned beats.
Students often praised Demarest’s one-to- 
one and small-group discussions with them, 
in which students’ drafts are individually 
discussed. Said one student, “He’s always 
willing to talk...he bends over backwards to 
help us.” Demarest was praised for “put­
ting himself on the line” by letting stu­
dents write for FOCUS.
Many student had specific suggestions for 
improving the course. One idea favored 
some kind of preparatory course to teach 
background principles of journalism, to be 
offered each semester with the Journalism 
course, so as to assure continual student 
writing for FOCUS. Another suggestion 
was to establish subsequent courses, 
based on the same practical foundation, 
but allowing students to report from other 
beats. Some students would like to see as­
pects of production, like layout and type­
setting, included in the course.
FORUM
Candidates for Student Government President will debate and answer questions.
Wherrett Room Wed., Mar.9, 4PM
funded by activities fee
NEED HELP
IN ANY OF THESE COURSES?
PHYSICS I, II, III 
CALCULUS I, II. Ill 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGINEERING 
LANGUAGES
ECONOMICS 
STATICS 
BIOLOGY 
HIGHER MATH 
PROB/STAT
F.A.S.T. (Free Academic Student Tutoring). The Peer Help 
Tutoring Service offers help in many courses you may be having 
trouble in. Need a tutor? Stop in Peer Help, 150 A Baker Hall.
These people who wish to sign up os e tutor welcomel
’S
N
NS3
I»
»
M
MS
N
M
M
a
tniu
Veukmt...
m is
act» 2:16
A SEMINAR ON THE 
BAPTISM OF THE SPIRIT. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16
and
FRIDAY MARCH 18 
8:00 P.M. ROOM 131 BAKER HALL
A FIRST CENTURY EXPERIENCE FOR 20th CENTURY MAN SPONSORED BY 
AGAP E CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP.
HiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiÈ
Food Service 
Announcements 
VEGETARIAN ENTREES
START IN MOREWOOD CAFETERIA 
MONDAY - WEDNESDAY AND 
FRIDAY - DINNER 
SEAFOOD EXTRAVAGANZA - 
DINNER 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16th
MOREWOOD CAFETERIA 
KILTIE CAFE
Food Coupon Books remain on sale 
10% off thru March
TnilllllllUlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllr^

---------------------------------------------------

+ + • 
+ - *-!++•
-••Vi * * *- •* +.- -.++
9 •. :
88 N<98P PRP PRRP PRRP P R R$Q _______
0 - -OBBCÉ BBC--”'--'______________1 III IiniIIIECGL I B H EUHBBt|tn_-KKHKK!¡4ja.ss> sssssss s
SSSSSSS S 
CLAYS $>T T
5 T 
T T
JUUUW uu" uuu’ù’ù’U’O'WM u u U VVVZ'.iUy-UVYYYY + fZ^óog."wzzzzzz+
§èo. ;
UVYV+ft-
00S,-5:UUU-—oouuuuuJMDOO:Rpcooci)
N - _aa .QNNNI^a«
*±UF G;G G XX x xiK M 
SEE-FE E E EEE
F FB2>2b2)2>2)BUUB B.FFÄ ÄÄ 5I0EE DE ED DIHF F
G 
H
fa B B 2>2>2>2>2>BB.UB FF FÄ Ä Ä z&AiAAAAÄAWÄWW/Bfi&ÄfifiÄÄÄÄ A AFGHG 4 G G,G G-G G G ( 
H HJ» B 0 Hr ‘VDanJ-.a.DCFfrSEEBH H.,
TTTTI TTTTtfKKKKKLI ’••;*•*' ’ ‘‘jTTTJfíIÍEF;H H HH ’ H 
T*T T-TITITTTÉ.flflB±— B IB BwfB H H HIIH II ]IV w ww.H xler MJWJfcìn. . , 11
w lU' LL/ IU I
-X KITT y II -IB in IR+
JMDO:::::e:n ene—__________________________^ £ £ ^^DAnADDr«&ß BBBBB'B<iaaacaaaaaBB)B)Dffße Pr rPr^Jr®L£M££ 0 EEEE£5©£B E 0 E SED BfBffT CECCC cJra™öB« KK‘E'E¥ff E C HOEMDBEBB k^A R30SH8 IWRRIR 0 flRfiKEFnTXECr <IGGGGGldE
? Hlö^R5ßÄlfiRB..9^9.¿SS
¿mum
HHH H HU! 
I II BI
r - - . . - IIIIIII
LL* *
MMMMMMa M
- L 16L MM 
MMÖMM 
Í1MMM'
N N N N r 
' N N N
r.« JN N N [ g‘BW1ffN M Ncnminiiimi r ki n
M
r.
b4t7*Tl
THE MEANING OF A*1
LIBERAL ARTS 
EDUCATION
IN A
TECHNICAL
siSOCIETY
Mllsi
ijyT’
?T*3l
*»
— — — — — 1 Dr. Herbert Simon
¡•^ University ProfessorJ I
I Wednesday. March 9
7:30 pm
W^herrett Room Skibo
sponsored by the Program in Technology and Humanities 
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ and Campus Program Planning
4 * €* f < * t

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—TARTAN—March 8. 1977
Presidential Candidates Speak Out
by Joan Konkle
Richard Edahl and Richard Scherer, the 
Student Government Presidential candi­
dates, spoke about what problems students 
face and how they will correct them Sun­
day night on WRCT.
Scherer felt that the biggest problem 
facing the university now is the quality of 
education. He also expressed much con­
cern about the management of Student 
Senate and the rest of university, saying 
that in many cases it was poor. He stated 
that the methods he will use to improve 
the education available at CMU and the 
management of Student Senate would be 
so effective that significant and noticeable 
changes would occur during his admini­
stration.
Edahl said that overcrowded classrooms 
were the most important issue facing the 
student body. He would make every ef­
fort to reduce the size of classes throught- 
out the university if elected.
Scherer said that the changes he would
ATO Helps 
Child Center
by Gary R. Fabian
On Saturday, February 5 ATO pledges 
completed a day of service by working 
the entire day for the CMU Children s 
School located in Margaret Morrison. 
According to Dr. Ann Taylor, director 
of the Children’s School. ATO did some 
painting, and general repair. She pointed 
out the the most noticeable improvement 
was the sparking windows in the school, 
which ATO cleaned. Also, an important 
additon ATO made to the schools's kitchen 
was the renovation of old bookshelves to a 
smock rack.
Dr. Taylor said that they at the Child­
ren’s School work within the confines of a 
strict budget, and that ATO by contri­
buting their time and creative resources 
saved them money. “We bought about 
fifty dollars worth of supplies,” said Tay­
lor, “and ATO turned it into at least two 
hundred and fifty dollars worth of labor 
and products.
Among the things ATO has made for 
the school in past years are a large checker 
board for the children and a huge col­
lection of sanded and varnished blocks. 
“ATO has turned this service project. 
Taylor stated, “into a tradition . It is good 
to see that the children are profiting from 
this labor.”
She went on to say that “ one of the best 
things about the service day was that the 
pledges seemed to enjoy themselves. The 
whole team repaired old articles and built 
new ones for the school. All of the pledges 
were very creative. They demonstrated 
total dedication.”
Taylor also commented that is was im­
portant to note that the work ATO has 
done for the school changes the opinion 
of adults outside the campus community 
towards the students. “The parents know 
that the students make many worthwhile 
contributions to their campus as a result 
of service projects such as these.”
Ted Milkovich and Tom Robich were 
the pledge trainers in charge of this pro­
ject. The entire project was carried out by 
fourteen pledges. Dr. Taylor said “The 
job those two and the rest of the pledges 
did when carrying out the project was 
just great.
“ATO’s enthusiasm, ” Taylor concluded, 
“is bound to be contagious. And that’s 
a good thing.”
make would be effected partly by having 
students make important decisions that 
now are made by the faculty and ad­
ministration using only student input.
He also said he quit Student Senate this 
semester after only three meetings because 
he was unfairly denied the chance to 
be Rules Committee Chairperson and 
because he was frustrated by the many 
instances of mismanagement he found. 
He added, however, that he will not. 
resign as Student Government President
if any conflicts or difficult situations 
arise. ,
Edahl mentioned the apparent apathetic 
attitude of most students on campus and 
said he would like to change this. Much 
of what he said concerned issues not 
directly connected with the university. 
He noted that there is a case coming up
before the Supreme Court that may elimi­
nate all university affirmative action 
programs and encouraged all students to 
oppose any move that would discontinue 
these programs. In addition, he said that 
although he is a graduate student, he 
would have no trouble dealing with under­
graduate students and their problems.
On the issue of increasing the activi­
ties fee, Scherer said that there was no 
reason for it to be raised. He thinks 
that the problem is not a shortage of 
money, but mismanagement of funds 
already available. Edahl said he would 
abide by the outcome of the student re­
ferendum on the increase that will appear 
on the ballot.
Scherer believes that by overseeing 
Student Senate and making sure it makes 
the right decisions, it can be made more
effective. Edahl favored increasing the 
number of representatives from 1 per every 
200 students to 1 per every 50 students. 
In that way, he hopes to make Student 
Senate a more diverse body and make it 
more accurately reflect student opinions.
I didit
Save $10,00 to $59,90 if you act now.
If you’ve been thinking about getting a programmable, 
Texas Instruments has a special offer for you
NOW
V,
Choose ^ two
SR-56 $109.95*
If you want an incredible slide rule calculator that’s 
also programmable, then this is the one for you.
There’re 74 preprogrammed functions and opera­
tions. And it has AOS, Tl’s unique algebraic operating 
system, the underlying reason an SR-56 is so power­
ful. It’ll let you handle problems with as many as 
9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 
has 10 (11 if you count the T-register.). And you can do 
arithmetic with all of them.
Chances are you’ll soon discover how really easy 
it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. Six logical 
decision functions. Four levels of subroutines. Dec­
rement and skip on zero. Compare a test register 
with the display to make a conditional branch. And 
this is just the beginning.
Think about it. Can you really afford to put off get­
ting your SR-56, now?
SR-52 $249.95* (New low price)
If you want the computer-like power of a card pro­
grammable then choose this one.
Techniques like optimization, iteration, data reduc­
tion, what-if matrices, mathematical modeling, need 
not tie up your mind —or your time.
But learning to use it is a hassle, you say. Not true. 
Prerecorded programs are gathered into software 
libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. 
Finance. All you need do is load a mag card, press a 
few keys and you’ll get answers that previously 
required a computer.
You can make your own programs just as easily. 
In just a couple of hours you’ll begin to 
prove what a powerful asset you have- 
right at your fingertips.
And there’s not a better time to get an 
SR-52 than right now.
Texas Instruments will rebate $10 00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when | you: (1) return this completed coupon including serial number (2) along with your completeo SR-56 customer information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy | of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 1 and March 31, 1977. ^
SR-56 Rebate Otter
P.O. Box 1210 I
Richardson, Texas 75080
Name _¦____ ________________________________________ . _______________ I
C2
Address __________
City_________________
SR-56 Serial No ________
Please allow 30 days for rebate
StateZip ---------------r—
(from back of calculator)
Electrical Engineering. Statistics. Math. Finance. Choose any two and (1) return this completed coupon including serial number along with (2) your completed SR-52 serialized customer information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 20 and March 31,1977.
SR-52 Free Software library Offer 
P.O. Box 1210 
Richardson, Texas 75080
Name__________________________________'______________
Address_________________________________________________
City_________
SR-52 Serial No.Math
State-----------Zip--------------------
_____(from back of calculator)____Finance_______EtTexas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries of equal value, based upon availability. Please allow 30 days for delivery.
Statistics
Offer void where prohibited Uy law Good m Continental U S only 
'Suggested retaipnce
1977 Texas instruments Incorporatedch8,1 971Volrh7V1
INCORPORATED65582

---------------------------------------------------

Concerts 
presents
PAPA JOHN
CREACH
LARRY
CORYELL
IN CONCERT 
FRIDAY. MARCH 18
2 Shows — 8:00 and 10:30
at the
SKI BO BALLROOM
Tickets:
$3.00 with college I.D.
At Skibo Information Desk and Pitt Ticket Office 
$5.00 General Public at Heads Together

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
RAY
SIBELIUS çSINFONIE NR.1 ..FINLANDIA”
BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHCOLIN DAVIS
tude of his audience or he thinks 
that the story would drag on even 
longer if such information had to 
evolve from the script. Conserving 
time may also be one of his objec­
tives in using a split screen during 
much of* the picture. However, 
while this technique does clarify 
which parties were engaged in the 
many phone conversations, the dif­
ferent camera angles and closeups 
of each caller are distracting. When 
the screen is divided into three,and 
finally four sections to include ac­
tion that is taking place simultane­
ously,it becomes annoying.
Twilight’s Last Gleaming is a 
film hampered by imbalance. It 
starts out a little fast, but then it 
begins to drag. Perhaps if more time 
were spent on fcelings and less on 
the facts it wou d have been possi­
ble for viewers to get more involved 
with the story. As it is, it’s simply 
too long and uninteresting, certain­
ly not the stimulating thriller they 
would have everyone believe.
NOW THRU MARCH 15
OUT
*moods as irrationally as Dell. At one mo­
ment he is paralyzed by the fear of botching 
some touchy technical maneuver and at the 
next moment he is heating a knife blade and 
threatening painful injury to a captive guard, 
which reminds one of a mean little child 
who delights in kicking cats.
The only one of the bad guys, (or of the 
entire cast for that matter,) who manages 
to bring any life at all to his characterization 
is Paul Winfield as Willie Powell. Although he 
does not get much screen time, Winfield is a 
welcome diversion to the otherwise drab 
portrayals.
On the supposed side of justice, a host of 
name actors, like Richard Widmark, Melvyn 
Douglas and Joseph Cotten comprise the 
President’s Cabinet and advisors. They typi­
fy the cynical views of many of their leaders. 
They are old, set in their ways, and believe 
that it is not wise for Americans to know the 
workings of their government. Here again 
no one rises above the mechanical.
This lack of character development con­
tinues to hold true with President David
Stevens, as portrayed by Charles Durning. In 
his case, Aldrich tries hard, but fails to tell
much about the character. For example, in
the film’s opening moments, Stevens cuts 
himself shaving and produces enough blood 
to draw sharks, although no type of cut or 
bandage is visible on his face for the rest of 
the movie. This action was designed to 
show us that the President is just an ordinary 
fellow. The segment is quickly followed by 
another that is equally contrived. This sec­
ond scene involves the only appearance in 
the movie of Roscoe Lee Browne, one of the 
billed stars. All Browne has to do for his bill­
ing is deliver a two minute speech, pleading 
with the President to pardon a political 
assassin who happens to be in love with 
Browne’s daughter. Stevens explains that it 
would not be possible to take such action. 
Browne leaves without quarrel, saying he 
knows it is the decision of an “honest man.” 
None of them, Brown, his daughter^ or the 
assassin, have any relevance to the story, and 
are in fact, never mentioned again. It is all 
too clear that the point of the scene was to 
establish the fact that the President was, by 
at least one person’s standards, an “honest 
man.”
Such blatant suggestions happen much too 
often. Either Aldrich doesn’t trust the apti-
j
TWILIGHT'S GLEAMING
by Jeanne Kravanja It is stressed that one of Dell’s hidden mo­
tives for the break-in was to have the hostage 
In his new film, Twilight’s Last Gleaming, President deliver a statement to the Ameri- 
director Robert Aldrich has trouble with the can people declaring that the Vietnam war 
pacing. He starts out by making the facts of was a mistake, and that government officials 
the story as clear as possible. By the end of kept up the fighting, even though they knew 
the first half hour the basic plot is establish- it was futile. Assuredly, this is a very noble 
ed. The story involves three escaped convicts request for someone in Dell’s position to 
who take over the Government’s Missile Silo make. From all indications, the audience 
3 in the year 1981. They gain control of should feel some sympathy for this man who 
enough nuclear warheads, all aimed at is trying to help open the government to the 
Russia, to force the U.S. government to con- people rather than merely trying to look out 
sider their demands: ten million dollars and for-his own personal gains. But it is difficult 
transportation out of the country via Air to relate to him, because he is more unrealis- 
Force One, with the President of the United tic than idealistic. Therefore, it’s a little vagu<
States as hostage. However, once this has all is to why Dell puts so much importance on 
been said and done, the film lapses into a laving a current President, one who was not 
two hour rehashing that adds a few details, sven involved with the war, make a public 
but little dimension to the story. statement as to its validity.
Supposedly the political consequences in- As for Dell’s personality, if is incompre- 
volved with whatever decision the President hensible that someone who so strongly be- 
and his men make (along with their personal lieves that government is not below sacrefic- 
conflicts in reaching that decision) are to ing lives in a futile was effort could maintain 
keep the audince interested as to what the such blind faith in the President who leads 
final outcome will be. Unfortunately, it’s the Government, Still, Dell reverently 
presented so dryly that it’s hard to worry speaks of the power and integrity of that 
about the political issues at hand. The cha- high office, and is secure in his belief that 
racters are so two-dimensional that it’s of lit- the Government would take no actions to 
tie concern what happens to any of them, risk the life of a hostage President. “Grow 
One of the only characters defined beyond up,” he is told by one of his accomplices, as 
name and position is Burt Lancaster as Dell, Dell tries to convince the man of this belief, 
the man who leads the break in. Dell had This is exactly what many in the audience 
been a former Air Force General who, after must be thinking: for all that he had been 
having spent some time in the Vietcong pri- through, Dell was too childishly trusting and 
son camp, became convinced that U.S. invol- and, because of this, some might view his 
vement in Vietnam was a mistake. Upon his character not with sympathy, but with con- 
retum to the States, his dissident views, tempt. If he hasn’t learned to be wary by 
posed a threat. The military heirarchy felt it now, he seems to deserve what he gets, 
necessary to have him courtmartialed and Bert Young, as one of Dell's accomplices, is 
jailed on a trumped up murder charge, equally as hard to make sense of. He changes
FIZZLES
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

€2 
THAT'S A VERYDEBBIE/ onvuuu 
BE GETTING A LOT OF CALLS WITH THE NEW LONG DISTANCE
DISCOUNT RATES'.' 35% EVENINGS & 60% NIGHTS and WEEKENDS ON DIAL-DIRECT *CALLS
5^Dial-direct calls are those Intra—U.S.—Mainland calls completed from a residence or business phone without operator 
assistance or calls placed with an operator from a residence or business phone where dial-direct facilities are not available.
Bell of Pennsylvania
Evenings 5 P.M.—11 PM Sunday thru Friday 
Nights 11 P.M.—8 A.M. Everynight 
Weekends All Day Saturday Until 5 PM Sunday
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
M.E.'s & E.E.'s 
Design Work 
Register at the Placement Office to 
meet with our Representatives who 
will be on campus March 9.
JOY Manufacturing Company
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654
BENSON IN FLIGHT
ley Turrentine, Hank Crawford, and Esther 
Phillips.
In the new album he shows excellent 
taste by choosing three tunes for the 
cream of the R&B/jazz crop: War’s The 
World is a Ghetto, Donny Hathaway’s 
Valdez in the Country and Everything 
Must Change, a tune popularized by 
Quincy Jones.
The World is a Ghetto begins with orches­
tral introductions by Claus Ogerman. (It 
was Ogerman’s arrangements which put 
the icing on the preceeding album.) Benson 
comes in with a distinctive guitar solo. The 
band provides a backdrop of staccatto 
notes which are joined with a mortar of 
smooth strings. Fulfilling his promise to in­
clude more vocals on this album than on 
Breezin ’, Benson sings several lines of the 
song before going into a lengthy duet with 
his guitar. These passages, in which he 
matches his guitar licks with his voice, are 
typical of the Masquerade sound.
Valdez in the Country conveys the same 
feeling of airiness as Breezin ’. The song is a 
showcase for Benson’s guitar magic. Every­
thing Must Change superimposes his superb 
singing voice upon Jorge Dalto’s debonair 
piano chords, sighing violins, subtle moog
sounds and tasty percussion. A jazzy im­
provisation ensues, with more guitar/voice 
duets and suave piano by Dalto.
The mediocre words and tune of Gonna 
Love you More are transformed to deli­
ciousness by Benson’s energetic vocal and 
an arrangement of lightly whipped strings 
ciousness by Benson’s energetic vocal and 
an arrangement of lightly whipped strings 
and flutes. His guitar takes a back seat to 
Dalto’s piano and Ralph MacDonald’s 
smart percussion.
The gentle rocker, The Wind and I, was 
written by the band’s electric piano play­
er, Ronnie Foster. It features slightly 
whimsical guitar solos by Benson, driving 
bass by Stanley Banks and a tasty clarinet 
interlude. And, of course, there are silky 
violins to tie everything together.
A luscious violin intro begins Benson’s 
version of the Nat King Cole standard, 
Nature Boy. Soon, MacDonald‘s lush per­
cussion, Harvey Mason’s drums and a 
chunky background guitar fade in. The 
magnificent voice Benson uses is the same 
one many people thouth was Stevie 
Wonder upon first hearing Masquerade. 
The song fades out with another guitar/ 
voice duet, amid floating strings.
George Benson’s new album is just as ex­
citing and beautiful as Breezin'. If In Flight 
has flaws, it is because he was content to 
equal, and not surpass the point of excel­
lence he reached with the previous album. 
Another album in the Breezin ’ mold will be 
a waste of talent by one of the best musi­
cians in the jazz field.
‘Extraordinary ....................cPaperbackcBook Sale
by David C. Lucas
How do you record an album after you’ve 
released one of the most popular records in 
jazz history?
Well, first you re-assemble the group of 
expert musicians that backed you on the 
last album, then you get ahold of the pro- 
. ducer, arranger and engineers that gave 
your Double-Platinum album it’s smooth, 
crisp sound. Finally, you apply the same
musical nuances to a new sextet of breezy 
jazz tunes. If you’re George Benson, that 
is.
Benson’s new album, In Flight, is the suc­
cessor to the incredible Breezin’ album. 
Breezin reaped many well-deserved awards, 
including the best record Grammy for This 
Masquerade. It was the high point (so far) 
in a career which started in the early fifties. 
Throughout the years, Benson has played 
with Hack McDuff, Freddie Hubbard, Stan­
COOKBOOKS HOWTO OCCULT-OUTDOORS 
MYSTERIES SELF HELP 
SPORTS - GAMES & HOBBIES 
LEISURE TIME FICTION
•emu bookstore*
baker hall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—TARTAN—March 8, 1977
ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday 
Documentary 
Film Serigg 
Film times:
11=30 &12:3Q
Wherrett Room 
Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
MAR 8
15
22
The Majestic Clockwork 
The Drive for Power 
The Ladder of Creation
Chemical Engineering 
Chemistry
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, 
one of the fastest growing “specialty chemi­
cals” companies and a recognized leader in 
its field, has unique opportunities offering ex­
ceptional career potential for Spring graduates 
majoring in the above.
Please visit our Representative 
on March 10
If unable to attend please send your resume to 
Richard Ranieri, Coordinator. Employment/Trainingume mcnara namen, uooram,
ZNhfienaC
STARCH AND CHEMICAL CORPORATION
10 Finderne Avenue 
Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807
An [quii Opportunity Employer M/F
SOCIAL WORK IN ISRAEL
Israel has long been a model 
of successful integration. 
Drawing its population from 
every country in the world 
naturally presents myriad 
social work problems and 
appreciated, challenging 
case work. Two Programs 
are currently being offered 
to people with a Hebrew 
background who would 
enter the Social Work 
Profession as a permanent 
resident of Israel.
I. Orientation Program for M.S.W. and B.S.W. Holders
A 7-9 month carefully planned orientation program which 
includes intensified Hebrew Language study. Interviews will 
be conducted in March for MSW1 s who wish to continue 
their careers as a permanent resident of Israel.
II. Social Work Retraining
Course specially designed for college graduates who did not 
major in social work. Bar Han University program will 
prepare you for a meaningful career in Israel.
For further information on these programs, contact: MR. R. OFER
Israel Programs Committee 
P?.tebu%”ffi.'l5213 (‘»»>««3-7277
Food Service to Adjust Operating 
Schedule
As we have in past years during the spring term - The 
Morewood Cafeteria will close week-ends commencing 
March 19th and 20th. Drop in Food Contracts and an in­
creasing number of changes to 5 day meal plans 
necessitate the move. In an effort to ease any in­
convenience to you. The Kiltie Cafe will offer continuous 
service from 7:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Lunch till 4:00 p.m.)
THE GRILLE
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PM
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY March 9th 
Tartanburger,French Fries,
Medium Soft Drink.......................................99
THURSDAY March 10th 
Two Chilidogs
Medium Soft Drink.......................................95
FRIDAY March 11th
Fish N Chips, Medium Soft Drink ..............95
MONDAY March 14th 
Tripledecker,
French Fries, Medium Soft Drink ..............99
TUESDAY March 15th
Two Hot Dogs, Medium Soft Drink .........77
Enjoy a Tea Party on us 
Free Cup of Tea Every Afternoon 3 to 4 pm

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
March 8, 1977—TARTAN—Page 15
McCartney."
Saturday March 12 at 1:25 pm, WRCT- 
Sports announcers Mike Emeigh and Al 
Bach will bring you the CMU vs. Penn 
State hockey game.
On Sunday, WRCT-Sports brings you the 
CMU vs. Cleveland State hockey game at 
3:25 pm, with your announcers, Mike 
Emeigh and Al Bach.
peare Company, the production features 
an outstanding cast headed by Broadway 
and Hollywood star Kurt Kasznar.
Neil Simon’s ever-hilarious comedy Plaza 
Suite, starring six well-known daytime ser­
ial TV stars, is the final production in this 
season’s Broadway Theatre Series, set for 
„gight performances May 24-28.
On Sunday, "Forbidden Fruit," WRCT's 
news magazine, will present on overview of 
the Athletic Department, a comparison of 
broadcasting in the U.S. and Canada, 'The 
Human Side of Blacklisting," and some sur­
prises, from 6 to 9 pm.WRCT
This week initiates a new column in the 
TARTAN. Each week, we will catalogue 
the weeks' Special Programming, and in­
form you of upcoming events that WRCT 
will present or help coordinate. This week:MISCTHEATREOn Monday March 7, "Wiseman", a new 
daily serial, premiers at 9am, 1pm & 8pm.
Wednesday morning at Midnight, Sal 
Paradise will present "Pornography, Civil 
Liberties, and Other Dirty Things."
The Wednesday Night Special from 9 to 
10 pm features Don McLean, with your
The Nikolais Dance Theatre, renowned on
five continents, will make its Pittsburgh 
debut on Tuesday, March 22nd at 8:00 pm 
in Heinz Hall under the sponsership of the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council.
Tickets may be obtained at Heinz Hall, 
Gimbels, Hornes, and Kaufmann's.
The Pittsburgh City Players will present 
William Inge’s Bus Stop in the Allegheny 
Community Theater, next to Buhl plane­
tarium. The show is free to the public. For 
more information telephone 231-3752.
'HE KEEPS TRYING. TO MAKE- IT
wiTH VNh bCng r,iN—7hUv s
MOW POR, THE UNVEILING
Ct Nv SENIOR PfVOXECT 1
Tjteae’s TARN TSe 
Wm Bug tu dSeen
tit
UouJ ABOUT X T>ATE 
-8UZZ-- 
BEAOTiFOL?,
MUSIC
for each conert- on sale at the Heinz Hall 
box office and ticket counters in Kauf­
mann’s, Gimbels, Horne’s and Sears. Group 
discount rates are available by phoning
Sherlock Holmes is the next presentation 
in Heinz Hall’s Broadway Series, opening 
for five shows April 11-14. Derived from 
an original staging by the Royal Shakes-
host, Berenger.
Thrusday night, from 6 to 9pm Jude will 
present "Tap Shoes, Ruffles and Dog 
Bones-An Intelligent Glimpse of Paul
14
MARCH
6:30 P.M.
MASS-BUFFET-DISCUSSION 
CMU’s CHAPEL (SKIBO RM39)
15
MARCH
8:00 P.M. 
CHARISMATIC 
PRAYER GROUP
The Oratory: 4040 Bigelow
SUNDAY MASSES:
DAILY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison 
10:30 A.M. Science Hall Room 7500 
12:30 Noontime Monday through Friday 
CMU s Chapel (Skibo Room 39)
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
CMU’s R.C. Chaplaincy 681-3181
uiiiitaimiiiiiitiDmiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiimniimmimniiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiici'iiitiiimoiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiy:' 
"ATTENTION CARNEGIE MELLON
STUDENTS AND FACULTY
i VILLAGE WASH TUB I
5512 WALNUT ST. (in the Heart of Shadyside)
? ° sis in a position to care for all your DRY CLEANING and 
laundry needs; including EVENING GOWNS AND 
SUEDE AND LEATHER TRIMMED GARMENTS.
¦
• PROFESSIONAL DRY CLEANING BY THE POUND (COIN*OP TYPE*
• WE DO ALL YOUR LAUNDRY **WASH*DRY & FOLD. ALSO, laundry finished.
• SAME DAY SERVICE ON DRY CLEANING AT NO EXTRA CHARGE- (BY REQUEST)
• MINOR REPAIRS AVAILABLE.
• ABOVE SERVICES In affact Monday thru Saturday
• STORE HOURS: 7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.
10% Discount to Students and Faculty 
IT WILL BE A PLEASURE SERVING YOU.

---------------------------------------------------

âhursîuuj Aûmtxmn jOtwrimnt Jforum
RAflK
Amithrr (Original é’mm'r
PrutYrmuir îirllmut llrtutrrl 
fBnômt lOanguagiB 
Srpartnmti
iKarrh 10, 1230 
Ifllu’rrrtî Ennm 
’ktho
Ethics & Business
What Ethical Norms are Encouraged t»y the Present „Structure
American Business Enterprise?
1—5—r-Wherrett Room Skibo
CMU 
7=30 pm March 8
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
Department of Administration & Management Sciences
Campus Ministry Council

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
March 8, 1977—TARTAN—Page 17
HOOPSTERS DOWNED IN NCAA
Harvey Named To All-Tourney Squad
by Bob Finn
Carnegie-Mellon’s first appearance ever in 
the NCAA Division III playoffs ended in a 
disappointing 82-68 defeat at the hands of 
ran extremely talented Wittenberg five. The 
loss negated a super perfomance by All- 
American candidate George Harvey.
Harvey was the CMU offense as he pour­
ed in 36 points and played excellent de­
fense throughout the contest. He left no 
doubt in the minds of the huge throng at 
Wittenberg Field House that he was the 
best player on the floor in either the CMU- 
Wittenberg or Ashland-Muskingum games.
Wittenberg, however, had too much in­
side strength for the Tartans as their start­
ing front line of Rick White, Greg Seay, 
and Clyde Eberhardt combined for 53 
tallies. White did the damage in the first 
half against CMU with 18 markers and Seay 
added 11 in the second half to insure the 
victory. White finished with 24, Seay with 
18, and Eberhardt added 11 for the even­
ing.
Coach DaveMaloney’s crew started quick­
ly as Harvey canned four of his patented 
jumpers at the outset as CMU raced to an 
8-2. lead. Then White and guard Robin 
Gregory got the Tigers moving.
They scored their team’s next eight hoops 
on pinpoint shooting that was characteris­
tic of Wittenberg all night. The duo 
brought the tournament hosts to an 18 all 
tie before Eberhardt gave the Tigers the 
lead for good with 11:38 remaining in the 
first half.
The Tigers used thier inside game to 
steadily move to an 11 point intermission 
lead as the Tartans could not mount a 
consistent offensive threat.
Wittenberg continued their pattern 
offense to perfection at the start of the 
second half as Brian Agler and Seay opened 
things up.
Down by 18, the Tartans make their last 
really impressive comeback spurt. Larry 
DiCicco nailed two free throws and a hoop 
and Harvey drove for a three point play to 
narrow the gap to 11 with 12:35 left.
The TArtans had opportunities in the 
next couple of minutes to come back even 
more as Wittenberg went into an unusual 
cold streak. However, CMU was just as cold 
and could not take advantage of the Tigers’ 
troubles.
From then on, Wittenberg regrouped and 
regained a firm control of the contest. The 
Tigers coasted from there to the victory 
and a trip to the Great Lakes Region 
Coach Maloney took Harvey out with a 
minute left in the game to a standing ova­
tion by an appreciative Wittenberg crowd. 
Maloney commented, “I thought the Wit­
tenberg fans showed a lot of class by giving 
George the standing ovation.”
Harvey broke the school seasonal record 
for scoring with his first hoop of the game. 
The oldmarkof 454 points was held by Bill 
Soffa4n 1959-60.
The hot shooting Tigers (57%) also dom­
inated the boards 36-29. White showed he 
was a complete player by pulling down 13. 
Marty Costa led the CMU rebounding with 
seven.
CMU suffered through one their poorest 
shooting effort of the year, hitting on only 
40% of their shots. Les Harper added 10 
points to back Harvey and freshman Larry 
Hufnagel chipped in with nine tallies.
' Froirrotte beer lover to
* * y* * THE STltOH BREWERY COMPANY. DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 ' ¦*
* X
George Harvey made the All-Tourney team at the regional playoffs
love
letters
Jeff Diehl fired in his only shot of the 
game from 20 feet with four seconds re­
maining to lead Muskingum to a 74-71 vic­
tory over Carnegie-Mellon in the 
consolation game of the NCAA Division III 
Great Lakes Regional.
Diehl came off the bench with two min­
utes left and the score tied at 71 ’s to give 
the Muskies another guard for ball han­
dling. Muskingum held the ball for the last 
shot. When the Tartans had the biggest 
scoring threats well covered, the ball was 
passed to the 5’9” junior on the left wing 
who swished the nets.
CMU immediately called time to set the 
final play with three seconds to go. Larry 
Hufnagel attempted a length of the floor 
pass to Les Harper, but Muskingum’s Marvin 
Smalley got inside position and Harper 
fouled intrying to receive the pass.
Smalley made the first shot of the 1-1 
situation but missed the second. Time then 
ran out leaving Muskingum as the third 
place finisher in the tournament, 74-71.
The loss also put a damper on another 
outstanding performance by George Har­
vey. He went 11 for 17 from the field in c 
scoring 24 points on the evening.
Harvey said about his suberb tournament 
play,“I really get psyched for these tourn­
aments. All the teams are good and play 
fine basketball. They don’t stall like 
Bethany, Thiel, and W&J did. It gives me a 
chance to show my talents and play the 
game the way it’s supposed to be played.”
CMU played the type of ball that was 
characteristic of their regular season 
play. In comparison to their poor shooting
against Wittenberg, the Tartans burned the 
nets at a 64% clip.
Muskingum moved to a 23-12 lead in the 
first half on the talents of Dave Brunston 
and Pete Liptrap before Tech started to get 
their act together. CMU outscored theM 
Muskies 13-1 over the next three minutes 
to forge into the lead.
Marty Costa and Harvey did the most 
damage during the streak that put CMU 
ahead 25-24 with nine minutes left. 
However, gutty Muskingum hustled behind 
the efforts of strong center Larry Hall to a 
43-39 halftime lead.
Muskingum increased their lead in the 
second half as Hall dominated the action. 
CMU ran off four hoops in rapid succession 
around the 15:00 mark to erase the Muskie 
advantage.
Les Harper scored inside, Larry DiCicco 
canned a long range jumper and stale the 
ball for an unmolested layup, and Harvey 
connected to give CMU a 57-56 advantage 
with 14 minutes to go. The contest was 
nip and tuck from there.
Coach Dave Maloney had the Tartans go 
to the four corners offense with 11 
remaining and holding a three point lead. 
Two questionable offensive foul calls 
against Greg Chambers gave Muskingum 
the opportunity to come back.
The last ten minutes of the game saw 
Muskingum work for the good shot and 
CMU getting clutch baskets by Costa, Har­
per, and DiCicco.
CMU almost forced a crucial turnover in 
the final minute of play. Chambers and 
continued on page 18
TARTAN IM. News 
Entry due- March 8, 1977- 4:30 Friday March 11
1) Softball — Slow pitch major - minor - in­
termediate league — commissioner Tim 
Ottie 681-9836.
2)Co-Rec Table Tennis
3) Co-Rec Badminton
4) Individual Call Pool
5) Foul Shooting
6) Team Baaminton
7) I.M. swimming meet, Wed. March 9 
at 4:30 pm. Post entry — team & 
individual awards — commissioner John 
Rossi.
8) I.M. Fencing
9) I^M. Archery
I.M. Night — 29th Annual , 7 pm 
intermediate final 
8 pm Awards 
8:30 pm — Major Final 
I.M. Girls Basketball
1) Black Heat
2) Kumquats
3) Frogs
4) Derelicts
won
4
1
1
0
Entry due TuesdayGirls I.M. Softball 
March 8 — 4:30 
Pick up entry form in Women’s Phys. Ed. 
Office. Commissioner Jan Billie 621-3015

---------------------------------------------------

National Car Rental
continued from page 17
Harvey double teamed the ball handler. 
DiCicco just barely missed intercepting the 
outlet pass and an easy layup opportunity 
with 30 seconds remaining which would 
have given CMU the lead. However, it was 
not to be and Diehl perforned his last 
second heroics.
CMU got balanced scoring that was 
missing the night before. Harvey got plenty 
of support for his scoring act. DiCicco 
ripped the nets for 19 and grabbed nine 
rebounds. Harper added 15 points and 
eight boards. Costa’s strong first half 
powered him to 11 tallies for the game.
Major League Standings
TeamWonLost
Supa-Stars81
Reality102
GSIA93
ATO-A83
PIKA-A74
Pride56
Katoosh56
Celtics46
High Flying Kites57
Beta-A47
Nerd Knockers47
SAE-A37
ZBT-A011
Pilid]
L 1
All five of Muskingum’s starters reached 
ctdouble figures. Small led them with 16 16 
points. Hall connected for 15 inside and 
Dave Smith, Brunston, and Liptrap added 
14,12, and 11 respectively.
NATH
CAR R
Who are 
you, telling
us how 
to run our 
business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un­
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal­
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al­
ternatives. the skill and courage to con­
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op­
portunities with us. and we’ll prove it
Contact your 
placement office 
for information.
SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
ICERS LOSE TO PENN STATE-McK
by Bill Oakley
The CMU Tartans travelled to Greensburg 
to play Penn State McKeesport in a West­
ern Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Hockey 
League game last Thursday. Although the 
Tartans held an adge in play for much of 
the game they endded up on the short end 
of a 4-2 score.
The first period of play was dominated 
by the Tartans. They continually con­
trolled the action, and the shot total show­
ed the Tartans holding a 16-4 advantage. 
Howvever, outstanding play by PS-M goalie 
Jim Pollack kept the Tartans off of the 
scoreboard. At the other end of the rink 
CMU goalie Don Jacobson had little
trouble in stopping PS-M’s shots, and 
the period ended in a scoreless tie.
The second stanza saw a turnaround in 
play as Penn State jumped to a 3-0 lead. 
The Tartan effort was hurt by penalties as 
they were continually forced to play while 
a man short. Wes Ross scored first for Penn 
State, taking a pass in fron t and tipping 
the shot past Jacobson, Rick Spotts picked 
up PS-M’s second goal on a high wrist shot 
and Bob Fleming closed out the scoring in 
the period shooting from a scramble in 
fron tof the net. PS-M held the edge in 
shots for the period 15-6 .
The Tartans started quickly in the third 
period, scoring twice in the first minute
and a half. Jack Arturo picked up the first 
CMU goal on a pass from Ken Trumpfhel- 
ler at 13:37 of the period. Nine seconds 
later, at 13:28 of the period, Mark Jonnatti 
scored to cut the Penn State lead to 3-2, 
Trumpfheller picked up the assist on the 
goal. The Tartans tried to know the score, 
but they could not put any more shots past 
PS-M goalie Pollack. Rick Spotts scored an 
insurance goal for Penn State to increase 
their lead to 4-2, which is the way the 
game ended.
The loss dropped the Tartans record to 3-
3-4-1. CMU was also hurt by an injury to 
goalie Don Jacobson, who is dou 
doubtful for the rest of the season. This 
leaves the goaltending in the hands of Don 
Crisafulli. The Tartans have two regular 
season games remaining, Saturday March 
12 against Penn State at 1:30 at the Civic 
Arena, And Sunday March 13 against 
Cleveland State at 3:00, also at the Civic 
Arena. Eins in these two games would 
leave the Tartans in good shape for making 
the playoffs, so come and support your 
team.
Get away
fox* the weekend.
per day plus 12c per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National’s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains, 
or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday noon. 
You pay for the gas you use, and return car to renting location. Call for 
reservations today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
•Rate subject to change without notice

---------------------------------------------------

GIRL ROUNDBALLERS FALL ON HARD TIMES
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie -Mellon University Wo­
men’s basketball team lost to W&J on 
Tuesday, to Bethany on Wednseday, and 
to California State College of Pa. on Sat­
urday.
The game against W&J was on the Tues­
day after the break and the first half 
showed the effects of the vacation lay­
off. Many of the CMU players had not 
touched a basketball since the game against 
Robert Morris one week earlier. The CMU 
team missed their first 29 shots of the 
game and it took over 17 minutes, wtih the 
clock showing 2:48 remaining in the first 
half, for CMU to score a point. The CMU 
defense was working well, limiting W&J
to only 17 points over that period of time. 
With less than one minute to play in the 
first half and CMU trailing 21-2, CMU 
suddenly started looking alive, scoring two 
quick baskets to end the half at 21-6. The 
second half was a complete reversal of the 
the first. CMU, which could only hit 3 out 
of their 43 first half shots, hit 15 of the 
next 42, or 36% for the second half as 
compared to 7% for the first. CMU was 
more aggressive and that not only helped 
CMU in the scoring, but it also hurt them 
in the foul column. W&J was able to score 
only 7 baskets in the second half, but hit 
15 of 21 from the free throw line for 
72%. CMU was able to close the gap to
CMUWITTENBERG
Pts.Reb.Assist..Pts.Reb.Assist.
Harvey3621Agler603
Chambers002Meyer201
DiCicco611Keener113
Costa470Stutz600
Harper1050Gregory841
DenBrunzzo050Warye200
Hufnagel940White24132
Hamerly030Jackson010
De Filippo310Lockwood010
--—Seay1862
Totals68'284Eberhardt1160
-Ewing410
Totals823312
within 7 points near the end, but with 3 
starters fouling out and one other starter 
missing the game, CMU could not quite 
close the gap losing 50-39.
The leading scorers for CMU were Laura 
Cooper with 16 points, Judy Parker with 
12 points, and Terry Preskar with 9 points. 
Laura Cooper had 16 rebounds and Driana 
Davies had 8 rebounds.
The game with Bethany was the exact 
opposite of the W&J game. CMU was able 
to score points, but could not stop the 
Bethany team from getting offensive 
rebounds and the easy baskets inside. The 
Bethany team held a 82-45 rebounding 
edge. With the Bisons getting several shots 
each time they had the ball ( one time they 
got seven shots before CMU got the ball 
back) and CMU was lucky to get a second 
chance, Bethany led at halftime by the 
score 37-21 and CMU was never able to get 
closer than 16 after than, with Bethany 
winning 68-40.
Leading all scorers was Driana Davies 
with 15 points, with eight other players 
contributing points for CMU. The leading 
rebounders for CMU were Laura Cooper 
with 9 rebounds, Brandi Jackson with 8 
rebounds and Ingrid Goedicke with 7 
rebounds.
In the first half of the game with 
California, the CMU team played their best 
all around half of the year against the 
tough CSC team. The CMU defense only 
let CSC shoot from the outside and the full
Food Service to Adjust Operating 
Schedule
As we have in past years during the spring term - The 
Morewood Cafeteria will close week-ends commencing 
March 19th and 20th. Drop in Food Contracts and an in­
creasing number of changes to 5 day meal plans 
necessitate the move. In an effort to ease any in­
convenience to you. The Kiltie Cafe will offer continuous 
service from 7:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Lunch till 4:00 p.m.)
¡0) Final 
Winter 
CLEARANCE
50% to 70% off
AII Fall <8 Winter Fashions
FORBES at ATWOOD
OAKLAND
681-7800
Join theStanfoniSummerSession.
Choose from a wide variety of introductory 
and advanced courses taught by Stanford’s 
own distinguished faculty and guest 
professors. Courses in such fields as:
I history / humanities / languages / sciences 
mathematics / technology / social sciences 
education / special programs and institutes
Stanford
summer
session
June 20-August ¡3 4t
Surround yourself with our unusually pleasant climate, 
nearby beaches and redwoods, and enjoy the cultural 
and recreational attractions of a great university and the 
San Francisco Bay Area.
The Summer Visitor Program is open to undergraduate and 
graduate students in good standing, persons aged 25 years or 
over, and qualified high school students.
The application procedure is simple, and summer visitors need not 
meet/the usual admissions requirements.
For your copy of our 1977 Summer Session Bulletin and an application 
for admission, clip this-ad and mail to:Stanford Summer Session 
Stanford University'
Stanford, CA 94305 
(415)497-3109
lot
Name.
Address •
court press caused CSC to turn the ball 
over. The CMU offense was able to get 
some shots from in close, but CSC was hot 
from outside and took the lead 31-20 at 
halftime. The CSC full court press was not 
effective in the first half, but it caused CSC 
to turn the game into a runaway in the 
second. CSC outscored CMU 46-14 in the 
second half to win the game 77-34.
Leading the scoring for CMU was Karen 
Azinger with 12 points, with eight other 
players adding either 2 or 4 points, the 
leading rebounders were Laura Cooer with 
9 and Mary Patrci with 8 rebounds.
FENCERS LOSE
by Gordon Morrison
The Camegie-Mellon University varsity 
fencing team lost to California State 
College by the use of Tiebreakers to break 
the tie of 2 all at the end of team competi­
tion. CSC came out on top by the use of 
the first tiebreaker 34-30. If it somehow 
made it to the second method for breaking 
ties, CMU would have been ahead and won 
the match 239-240. The match could have 
been won by CMU if the CMU men’s A 
team could have scored one more touch in 
any of the five bouts lost 5-4. Any one of 
those five bouts would have meant a vic­
tory for CMU in the team competition 
2^-l!4 and there would have been no need 
to use the tiebreakers. The outlook for the 
rest of the season will be for more close 
matches, since CMU wil fence against CSC 
and Penn State (Fayette) again and both 
matches were decided by one touch. The 
two other teams in this league are expected 
to be as strong as the other teams. Indivi­
dual scores were a: follows:
Jenny Willis 8-0
Gillian Goldridge 6-2
Liza Hayes 4-4
Victor Brennan 3-2
Peter Bond 2-3
E.F. Williams 2-3
Gary Frankston 2-3
Avram Scheiner 1-3
Jonathon McGraw 1-3
Brian Pierson 1 -3
John Maldonado 0-4
Paul Schoff 04
SUMMER
Do what interests you most: 
folk dance, work at an 
archaeological dig, study at a 
university, live on kibbutz. And 
at the same time, have a short, 
in-depth Israel experience.
Summer programs offer you a 
number of extra curricular 
activities: you can spend a week 
in Sinai, visit a settlement in the 
Golan Heights, tour big cities 
and historical sites. Meet people 
and gain awareness of Israel as 
a social, economic, cultural, 
religious and political reality.
Have a good time while you are 
doing it Contact the Israel 
Program Center and inquire about five-through-nine-week 
summer programs.
American Zionist Youth Foundation.
Israel Program Center
515 Park Avenue. New York, New York 10022. 
(212) 751-6070
For information, please send to the above address. 
Name_________________________________- Age
87
Address —
City____
University
JState-Z*P
(USD)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-March 8,1977
REVISED
Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1977, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows:
1st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 17 — June 24 
Regular Undergraduate Courses 
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 27 — August 5 
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$28/unit* — All undergraduates 
GRADUATE TUITION: 
$34/unit* — College of Fine Arts/Humanities 
and Social Sciences 
$45/unit* — Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology/Mellon Institute of Science 
*3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be offered. 
The actual list of courses including class 
schedules will be announced and published 
depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry. 
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Phone: (412) 621-2600, Ext. 8807
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS 
(1) = First Session: May 17 — June 24; (2) = Second Session: June 27 — August 5
* = Graduate Course Number
Biology:
Chemistry:
Computer
Science:
Mathematics:
Physics:
Statistics:
Civil
Engineering:
Mechanical
Engineering:
Nuc. Sci. & Eng.:
Metallurgy and 
Materials Science:
Biomedical
Engineering:
Economics:
English:
History:
Design:
Music:
Carnegie -Mellon University
Name
Mailing Address.
Present School
I am interested in the following course(s): 
Course Number TitleSession
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 1521 3
Art:
Modern 
Languages and 
Literature:
Psychology:
03-121Modern Biology9 units(1) and (2)
09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-142Physical Chemistryl9 units(1)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) and (21
15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(1)
15-211Fundamental Structures of Programming9 units(1) and (2)
21-121Calculus I11 units(11
21-122Calculus II11 units(1) and (2)
21-123Calculus 11111 units(1) and (2)
21-259Differential Equations and Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-260Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis9 units(21
33-121Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)10 units(11 and (2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (21
33-124Atomic Physics and Structure of Matter10 units(1) and (21
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1) and (2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units(1) and (2)
36-215Probability and Statistics I9 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(21
12-205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
12-211Solids Mechanics I9 units(1)
12-215Materials12 units(1)
24-121Thermodynamics I9 units(1)
25-713Nuclear Reactor Spatial Distribution Physics9 units(1)
27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1) and (2)
27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1) and (2)
27-350Seminar9 units(1) and (2)
27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1) and (2)
27-775Thesisvar. units(1) and (2)
39-227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1) and (2)
42-500Physiology9 units(1)
42-560Undergraduate Projectsvar. units(2)
73-100Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I9 units(1)
73-200Econ. Growth and Fluctuations9 units(1)
73-250Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.9 units(1)
73-459Benefit Cost Analysis9 units(11
76-100Freshman Writing9 units(2)
76-407The Contemporary Novel9 units(2)
76-427The Drama of the Absurd9 units(2)
76-581Business and Professional Communication9 units(2)
76-721*Shakespeare12 units(2)
76-806*Nobel Novelists12 units(2)
76-851 *Functional Writing12 units(2)
76-887*American Humor: Nineteenth and Twentieth Century12 units(2)
76-960*Workshop in Advanced Placement English
— for teachers of AP English only (June 27-July 22)
12 units(2)
79-101Shaping of Western Civilization9 units(U
79-29120th Century America v9 units(1)
79-799*History and the Social Sciences12 units(2)
79-804*Power and Values in History12 units(2)
79-856*The Teaching of History12 units(2)
79-857*Readings in Historyvar. units(2)
79 869*Internship in Historical Researchvar. units(2) „
51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography6 units(2)
57-733*Advanced Choral Techniques (July 5-July 17)6 units
57-741*Advanced Instrumental Techniques (July 19-July 31)6 units
57-867*Administration and Supervision in Music Educations 
(June 27-July 15)
6 units
57-873*Principles of Music Education (July 18-August 5)6 units
57-875*Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)
60-751 *Advanced Ceramics9 units(2)
60 251Ceramics9 units(2)
60-229,729*Color9 units(2)
60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)
60-237,737*Intaglio9 units(21
60-235,735*Lithography9 units(2)
60-380,780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
60 254,754*Metalcrafts9 units(21
60-226,726*Painting9 units(2)
60-233.733*Relief Printing9 units(2)
60-231,731*Screen Printing9 units(2)
60-261,761* 
60 247,747*
Sculpture
Experimental Metal Platemaking Workshop 
in Lithography (June 6-June 17)
9 units 
6 units
(2)
60 369,769*Tapestry Workshop (June 27-July 15)9 units
82-107French (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
82-123German (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
82-143Spanish (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(11 and (21
85-101Introduction to Psychology9 units(1)
