THE 1MTAN
Volume 84. Issue 16 Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Inside
184.
•How do we deal with 
something as foreign as 
death on our campus?
See page 3.
•Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Fire responds to smoke in 
Morewood Gardens’ C- 
Tower elevator.
See page 3.
Isue6
•Readers respond to last 
week’s letter on Panama.
See page 8.
•Fraternity hazing raises 
some serious issues.
See page 10.
Casur.
•The men’s and women’s 
basketball teams return 
from a long weekend on the 
road.
See page 11.
•The swimmers come up 
with three out of four wins 
at a Grove City double deal 
meet.
See page 11.
I8nreu8.
• Javi contemplates 
forming his own country.
See page L3.
giM8u.isl.
'Waiting for Spring, the 
latest album by jazz pianist 
David Benoit, is number one 
on the Billboard jazz charts.
See page L9.
o8neU vur.
•The Berlin Wall and 
the Simpsons show up 
at the Ball.
See page LI.
•The history, the 
alumni, the food, the 
fun, and photos galore 
— a madcap recap of the 
Beaux Arts Ball.
See pages L11-L13.
Index
Classifieds..........................15
Diversions..........................L9
Features..............................LI
Forum....................................8
Sports..................................11
University Calendar........16
Vox Populi..........................16
Student Affairs readies for changing of guard
Cox plans 
retirement in 
early summer
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
“I am 68 years old. I think it’s 
time to sit back and do other things 
with my life,” said Associate Dean 
of Student Affairs Lois Cox. She 
will retire on June 30, ending 21 
years of service at Carnegie Mel­
lon.
Cox came to Carnegie Mellon 
as an assistant to the dean and 
then became an assistant dean 
before advancing to her present 
position.
“Overall it’s been a very good 
experience,” she said, lookingback 
on her career. “The reason I’ve 
stayed here as long as I have is
Search for dean will focus 
on internal candidates
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor
Associate Dean of Student Affairs Lois Cox helps students (from left) 
Natalie Gesmond, Brian Salmon, and Benita Asher.
because of the students.”
Cox’s high opinion of the stu- 
dentbody shines through descrip­
tions laced with words such as 
“great” and “bright.” Her greatest 
feelings of accomplishment, she 
said, come from those situations
where “students get themselves 
in trouble and I can help them if 
they’re frustrated with the sys­
tem.”
Acting Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy sees Cox’s re­
continued on page 5
Last spring Vice President for 
Enrollment Bill Elliott appointed 
Michael Murphy to the position of 
Acting Dean of Student Affairs 
after former Dean Brad Walter’s 
resignation, with the understand­
ing that a permanent appoint­
ment would be made during the 
second semester.
The spring semester is here, 
and the search is on.
The decision to conduct a search 
was not made because of any 
inadequacy of Murphy’s, accord­
ing to Elliott, but rather because 
“there may be other people on 
campus who could do the same 
continued on page 7
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor 
Michael Murphy was appointed 
acting dean of Student Affairs when 
Brad Walter resigned last June.
184.Is8ue6C.a
D. A. Hendersan/Tartan Photographer
The doors of the College of Fine Arts opened Saturday at 10 pm to welcome more than 1200 partygoers to the 1990 Beaux Arts 
Ball. More than 20 bands played at the gala, which lasted until 5 am Sunday. Most of CFA, barring personal offices and studios, 
was open to the event, which was covered by local and international media. Tartan coverage begins on page LI.
Plans for 
Skibo may 
include 
food court
By NICOLE BROCKMANN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Some interesting renovations and relo­
cations of existing Dining Service facili­
ties may occur in Skibo when the Kiltie 
Cafe establishes residence in the new 
dormitory next year.
According to Patrick Keating, Carne­
gie Mellon’s vice president for University 
Planning, there is a possibility that the 
Tartan Grill may leave its home in Skibo’s 
upper level and move downstairs as part 
of a food court to be developed in space 
currently occupied by Kiltie.
This plan is the result of a study on how 
the Skibo space could best be utilized 
during the “interim” period between the 
opening of the new dining hall and the 
opening of the University Center, which, 
according to Keating, may last between 
one year and “hopefully not more than 
two or three.” Keating stressed that the 
study is not yet completed and that the 
plans for the new food court are not defi­
nite. “Eight now it’s a question of feasibil­
ity and cost,” commented Acting Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy.
The idea of the food court was chosen 
because a food court system is one of the 
dining facilities planned for the new Uni­
versity Center. Establishing a similar 
system in Skibo before the opening of the 
Center would allow students and admin­
istrators the chance to evaluate its use­
fulness and to work out any possible 
“bugs” before plans for the center are 
finalized.
“We also want to see if students really 
want a food court,” said Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Service Director James Gurley.
The proposed food court is designed to 
offer a diverse selection of dining options. 
In addition to presenting many of the 
same types of menu items currently 
continued on page 7
tse.ily riyPr8l. bsh6 .8,euirSd u8.ib8lr. u8.aslb .Aeyyi.PAS
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan News Editor 
& JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Contributing Editor
Getting into one of the three large dor­
mitories on campus won’t be quite as easy 
as in the recent past.
The CMU Housing Office is reinforcing 
their instructions to the desk attendants 
who monitor the entrances to Donner, 
Morewood Gardens, and Mudge House to 
require that “trailers” — students who 
enter the building after someone else opens 
the door — present University ID cards 
before being admitted to the building.
According to Amy Ginther, assistant 
director of housing for residence life, the 
change that will be obvious to students —
rnegIe CIi86s C. MIele6C o6i MI.Uveu4 tI.u 
oI8486syP
— bui h86C,eIS 
b4484Co6C d8IeAC.I .t f.c486s
being required to present an ID card — 
isn’t really a change in policy. She says 
that the policy has existed for some time, 
but in the past was loosely enforced by 
those staffing the service desks.
Ginther said that the decision to more 
strictly enforce the policy wasn’t because 
of any problems in the dormitories. “We’re 
trying to prevent any problems from aris­
ing,” she said.
Morewood Gardens, the largest dormi­
tory on campus, housing nearly 700 stu­
dents, has two service desks — one at the 
building’s main entrance in A-Tower, and 
a second desk at the entrance to E-Tower. 
The E-Tower desk is a 24-hour desk, while 
the A-tower desk is usually in operation 
from 4 pm to 8 am on weekdays and 24
hours on weekends.
“It’s very difficult [to ask people to show 
ID] because people who are carrying books 
or other things have trouble getting out 
their cards,” says Austin Meyer, an atten­
dant at the Morewood A-Tower service 
desk. He said that people frequently com­
plain about presenting ID, especially when 
they may pass through the door several 
times during a shift.
Meyer thinks that after the policy has 
been enforced, people will get into the 
habit of getting out their ID cards as they 
come into the building. “It’ll be automatic,” 
he says.
Laurie Gallo, an attendant at Mudge 
House, echoed Meyer’s thoughts. She said 
that the need to maintain security by 
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
*Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Campus groups plan events 
for Black History Month
In celebration of February as Black History Month, a variety of 
free events are scheduled on and near campus.
Thursday, the film “The Roots of the Struggle” will be shown at 
5 pm in DH1112, and Sunday, interested parties are invited to 
attend a luncheon with Spirit’s founder, Diallo Kofi Scott. After 
two weeks of events, the celebration of Black History Month will 
conclude on February 25 at 3 pm with “Spirit at the Apollo,” a 
talent show in the Skibo Ballroom.
Sponsoring groups include Spirit, C-MAP, the Black Graduate 
Student Organization, Student Senate, and the Division of Stu­
dent Affairs. For more information, call x3850.
Tabloid sees CMU campus 
in superlative terms
The February 7-13 issue of In Pittsburgh, featuring the “Best 
of Pittsburgh” awards, presented the award for “Best Campus” to 
Carnegie Mellon, “where the students are either really hip or 
really nerdly,” according to the paper. Other superlatives in­
cluded Squirrel Hill’s Mineo’s for “Best Pizza,” and Shadyside’s 
The Balcony for “Best Jazz Club.”
Deadline approaches for 
undergrad research grants
Applications for summer/fall Student Grants will be accepted 
until 5 pm on March 16.
A limited number of grants are available to qualified students 
based on submitted project proposals which must be approved by 
a faculty sponsor. The award is generally limited to $500.
Winners must submit a detailed budget of their proposed 
expenses and will be accountable for any monies awarded to 
them. Applications may be obtained from Barbara Lazarus, room 
207, Elliott Dunlap Smith Hall (formerly BOM Building B)..
Duquesne Light awards 
research money to SUPA
Duquesne Light has granted SUPA $585,000 to establish a 
four-part Economic Development Education, Research, and Out­
reach program.
The money will be used for research and scholarships and to 
enhance SUPA’s economic development curriculum. In the 
Duquesne Light Economic Development Fellowship Program, 
eight half-tuition scholarships for SUPA’s MPM program will be 
competitively awarded to professionals who contribute to south­
western Pennsylvania’s economic development.
In the Applied Research Projects, Duquesne light will yearly 
fund two applied research projects staffed by at least one faculty 
member and up to 15 graduate students.
The Economic Development Seminar Series will bring nation­
ally renowned economic development professionals and academ­
ics to campus to discuss economic development policy.
The fourth element of the program will be the Economic 
Development Curriculum Enhancement, a plan to expand the 
curriculum in SUPA’s Urban and Regional Economic Develop­
ment concentration in an effort to develop the country’s premier 
professional education program in economic development.
WORLD NEWS
Arms control 
eclipsed by 
Soviet changes
MOSCOW (AP)—Praising this 
“time of great change” in the 
Soviet Union, Secretary of State 
James A. Baker III is seeking 
completion of an arms control 
agreement while gaugingMikhail 
Gorbachev’s standing amid ma­
jor changes in the Communist 
Party.
Baker entered a second round 
of talks with Foreign Minister 
Eduard A. Shevardnadze on 
Thursday intent on concluding a 
treaty to reduce troops and non­
nuclear arsenals in Europe in time 
for President Bush and Gorbachev 
to sign it at a Washington summit 
in June.
At the three-hour session, Baker 
also took up with Shevardnadze 
the quickening pace with which 
West and East Germany are ap­
proaching reunification.
As Baker arrived, the Central 
Committee, the Soviet Commu­
nist Party’s policy-making body, 
was concluding a historic meet­
ing at which it endorsed 
Gorbachev’s call for an end to the 
party’s constitutional monopoly 
on power.
“This is clearly a time of great 
change in the Soviet Union,” 
Baker said in a statement. “They 
are making efforts to reform both 
their economic and political proc­
esses and they are emphasizing 
the importance of the introduc­
tion of pluralism into their politi­
cal system.”
Judge throws out 
attempt to try 
Noriega abroad
MIAMI (AP) — Deposed Pana­
manian dictator Manuel Noriega 
can be tried in a U.S. criminal 
court on drug charges in spite of 
his prisoner of war status, a fed­
eral judge ruled.
U.S. District Judge William Ho- 
eveler brushed aside defense ar­
guments that Noriega must be 
moved to his homeland or a third 
country until an international 
tribunal determines his status 
under the Geneva Convention.
“I don’t find that under the 
Geneva Convention I must divest 
myself of jurisdiction,” said Hoev- 
eler. “This court does have juris­
diction to proceed... and we will.” 
William Bryson, U.S. deputy 
solicitor general, argued the judge 
has jurisdiction even though the 
government agreed to Noriega’s 
POW status.
Defense attorney Frank Rubino 
strongly dissented, saying the 
government was trying to stretch 
the Geneva Convention to justify 
what he described as the illegal 
invasion of Panama and deten­
tion of Noriega.
After the hearing, Rubino said 
he planned to ask the U.S. Su­
preme Court to free Noriega, and 
would complain to the Interna­
tional Red Cross, the United
Nations, and the Organization of 
American States, hoping they 
would pressure the White House 
“which is where this case is really 
being directed from.”
Czech leader 
plans Soviet visit I
PRAGUE (AP) — Czech Presjj 
dent Vaclav Havel will travel to 
Moscow on February 26 to meet 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev 
according to government sources
Havel’s visit is believed to be a 
symbolic confirmation of the 
Soviet decision to pull out 75,00) 
troops stationed in Czechoslovak 
kia after the 1968 Soviet-led in. 
vasion by five Warsaw Pact coun­
tries crushed the liberal reforms 
of Alexander Dubcek.
The second round of talks on 
the withdrawal of the Soviet 
troops from Czechoslovakia was 
scheduled to start in Moscow last 
Wednesday, the Foreign Minis, 
try has said.
? NATIONAL NEWS
x.IIeAC8.64...
In last week’s issue [“Beaux Arts Ball is a long-standing 
tradition at CMU”], the dates for the only Balls separated by a 
four-year time span were listed incorrectly. The only Balls 
separated by four years were in 1956 and 1960. Also, according 
to John Humphrey, an alumnus, there was a Ball in 1967.
Immigrants may 
be answer to 
labor shortage
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Presi­
dent Bush and his economic ad­
visers are calling for new policies 
to increase the number of skilled 
immigrants as one way to deal 
with an impending labor short­
age in the U.S.
In his annual economic mes­
sage, the president said major 
changes in the makeup of the U.S. 
work force will “shift attention 
away from worries about tile 
supply of jobs that have haunted 
us since the 1930s, and toward 
new concerns about the supply of 
workers and skills.”
By de-emphasizing the creation 
of jobs, the economic report marks 
a major change for U.S. policy 
makers, and for President Bush 
himself.
In his acceptance speech at the 
Republican convention in 1988, 
Bush pledged to create 30 million 
jobs over the next eight years—a 
goal many economists said was 
neither achievable nor desirable, 
given the slowdown in the growth
of the labor force.
The demographic trend marks 
a “sea change in American labor 
markets,” said Michael Boskin, 
chairman of the Council of Eco- 
nomicAdvisers, who compiled the 
council’s annual report. That 
report was released last Tuesday 
along with the president’s mes­
sage.
Over the next 20 years, Boskin 
said, the challenge will no longer 
be to create jobs, but to assure 
that there is an adequate supply 
ofworkers with appropriate skills 
to fill the jobs that are available.
North attorneys 
appeal conviction
WASHINGTON (AP) — A de- 
fense attorney for Oliver North 
asked a federal appeals court last 
Tuesday to overturn the former 
presidential aide’s Iran-Contra 
conviction because of the “perva­
sive dissemination” of his con­
gressional testimony.
Attorney Barry Simon, in oral 
arguments before the U.S. Cir­
cuit Court of Appeals, said wit­
nesses, jurors, prosecutors and 
grand jurors could not avoid ex­
posure to testimony North gave
to Congress.
North was granted immunity 
from prosecution for his testimony 
before a congressional committee 
investigating the Iran-Contra 
affair. Prosecutors said they had 
not read or seen any of that testi­
mony and had gathered their own 
evidence.
North was convicted on May 4, 
1989, of obstructing Congress, 
altering and destroying National 
Security Council documents and 
accepting an illegal gratuity.
Bush renews 
commitment to 
SDI program
LIVERMORE, Calif. (AP) — 
President Bush visited a Strate­
gic Defense Initiative research lab 
on Wednesday and declared that 
a missile defense shield in space 
“makes much more sense than 
ever before.”
Bush made the pitch for Star 
War s in a speech to what he called 
the “under-appreciated” staff at 
Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratories, the nerve center of 
both the Star Wars research ef­
fort and nuclear weapons work.
The White House also an­
nounced Bush has invited West 
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl 
to Camp David on February 24- 
25 to discuss East-West issues 
and the prospects for Germaii 
unification.
Bush told the Livermore work­
ers the shift toward democracy 
and freedom in the East Bloc “is a 
direct result of our ability to stand 
firm in the face of threats to peace 
and stability.”
“If the technology I’ve seen 
proves feasible — and I’m told it 
looks very promising — no wai 
planner could be confident of th( 
consequences of a ballistic mis 
sile attack,” said Bush, who 
praised the nuclear weapons 
workers.
News Briefs courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
News layout assistants: 
Seth Luckman, 
Mark Musolino, 
& David Shin
Special Interest Houses
The 
Housing Office 
is now accepting applications 
from groups of student who would like to 
be considered for residency in one of the seven 
Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House in the Margaret Morrison Complex is a 4-bedroom, 
8-person apartment. Three additional Special Interest Groups -will be housed in 
the new residence hall. Two 8-person houses will include 3 double rooms and two 
single rooms; the 7-person house consists of 3 single rooms and 2 double .ooms. 
While all 8-person houses include 2 bathrooms, the 7-person suite has just one 
bathroom. As a result, the 7-person house must be occupied by members of the 
same sex. The Margaret Morrison houses include a kitchen and living room. The 
new suites do not include a kitchen.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses is to 
encourage situations where the living environment complements the learning opportunities 
of the residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined by the member- 
residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 7 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest Houses, a 
decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented and the likelihood of 
serious educational benefit derived from residency in this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and returned by:
February 16, 1990
Walk - in Tutoring
Start 
Smart !!
Sunday through Thursday
Swctey only
Intro to ComputingWeH5409
CalculusWeH5403
PhysicsWeH5427
ChemistryWeH5427
BiologyWeH5427
. Wednesday
Academic WritingWeH5205
The Right Place To Turn
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 19903
Dealing with death: How we cope with losing a loved one
fnurnl184.vlnAS.i.
By JOEY LYNN MONACOI Tartan Contributing Editor
“I think death is dif- 
I ficult for any commu- 
I jjty, and perhaps most 
I difficult in a young 
| community — in the 
pcollege environment,
I because most young I people aren’t familiar with that kind of a I loss, it’s more personal,” reflects Michael 
I Murphy’ acting dean of Student Affairs.
“Most people come to college,” he says, 
_r*and ‘spirituality’ is questioned. People 
I tend to be put into a situation where the 
I traditional values get at least tested, 
I and maybe modified a bit.... You could 
I argue in some way that, being raised in 
, belief, in some cases people don’t ex­
plore that belief and in college it’s tested 
I and they fall away, and sometimes come 
I back in a more genuine way — where 
I there’s ownership.”
According to Murphy, it is an event 
I the death of a young person that 
Shapes students’ search for how ‘spiritu- 
lality’ fits into their lives. So, when a 
•twenty- year-old man goes to a party one 
¡Friday night and makes some choices 
I that will lead to his death, his friends, 
land others who knew him, are left be­
hind with questions scholars have never 
I been able to definitively answer. How do
they cope with the loss?
On Saturday, November 4,1989, Mi­
chael Golden, a junior electrical and 
computer engineering major, died in an 
automobile crash on Fifth Avenue. His 
car skidded out of control for 150 feet 
before flipping over hedges and landing 
upside-down in a driveway on the 5600 
block of Fifth Avenue.
Golden’s former housemate, Kun Shin, 
emphasizes the shock he felt after hear­
ing about the accident. “I was kind of 
stunned for a while,” he said. “Wayne [a 
second housemate] was arguing that it 
wasn’t true, but I knew that it was.”
Shin’s previous experiences with death 
had involved people he had known only 
indirectly — friends of his parents. See­
ing a person who was his age die sud­
denly affected him in many ways. “I 
thought, Wow! somebody could just pass 
away like that,” he remembered. “It puts 
you in your place.... I felt sad for every­
one who cared about him, especially his 
parents. I kept wondering, how would I 
feel if I was Mike’s parent?”
Golden’s fraternity brothers remem­
ber him as a lively, enthusiastic, well- 
liked member of their chapter. John 
O’Keefe, commander of CMLPs Sigma 
Nu chapter, remembers the experience: 
“I was awakened at four o’clock in the 
morning. It was a Saturday. We were 
havingfreerolls... .Larry [Rosenthal] and
pm,e sI8el86s MI.Ae44 Ao6 s. o6iW,eIe tI.u 
6.C Ieovvi oAE6.WveDs86s C,oC C,84 ,o4 ,oML
Me6eD — o E86D .t De68ov — C. 6.C Wo6C86s C. 
C,86E oU.cC 8C .I teev o6iC,86s( )
— hve6 N,eIuo6S 
x.c64ev86s o6D NCcDe6C delev.Mue6C
I went out and just stood alone on the top 
of [Flagstaff] hill for two hours, just stand­
ing outside and watching the sun rise.” 
“I found myself finding things to do.... 
It surprised me, because I studied a little 
harder,” remembers Frank Senchek, 
Golden’s big brother at Sigma Nu.
At the same time, some find it more 
difficult to work, especially Brad Wyatt, 
who, like Golden, was an ECE major. 
Since they had classes together, they 
often worked together on class projects.
Most members of the fraternity at­
tended the funeral in Maryland. “It was 
almost a joyous experience,” recalls 
O’Keefe. “Some funerals I’ve been to were 
really sad, but this was different. People 
were crying and people were laughing....” 
“They had friends of his and his family 
come up and just speak,” O’Keefe said. 
“People read poems about him and things
like that. There was really an outpour­
ing of emotion.”
“They treated it [the funeral] like a 
celebration of the life of Mike Golden 
instead of a mourning of the death,” 
recalls Senchek.
The brothers also agree that the sup­
port they received from others, espe­
cially from within the Greek community, 
made the difference. “Pi Lam painted 
the fence with the message ‘Goodbye 
MG’ two nights in a row after it hap­
pened,” recalls O’ Keefe. “I’d like to ex­
press our gratitude. That really meant a 
lot when it was the hardest — seeing 
them showing their support like that.” 
“We may scratch and claw at each 
other a lot,” says James Mawhinney, 
“but when something happens like this, 
we’re all brothers, seriously, in one way 
or another we’re all fraternal brothers.”
Golden is still with his brothers in 
memory; Senchek keeps the booklet from 
his funeral taped to the wall of his room, 
and Wyatt has newspaper clippings from 
the accident sitting in a desk drawer. 
The brothers feel that they’ve changed 
from the loss. “We’ll never let something 
like that happen again,” vows O’Keefe. 
“We’ve become much more protective of 
each other, I think.”
Grief is a very individualized process, 
according to Glen Sherman of the Coun­
seling and Student Development Cen­
ter. Like these students, each person 
comes to term with loss in his or her own 
way. “A death, even if it is expected,” 
says Sherman, “can be difficult to deal 
with, particularly when it is a young 
person, for a number of reasons. We say 
that the person had his or her whole life 
ahead of them and possibilities, if they 
were bright or talented.”
“It’s a sense of shock or disbelief that 
we feel,” he elaborates. “If it’s somebody 
you were close to or knew well, and that 
person was a part of your life to some 
degree, it’s a shock that all of a sudden 
that person isn’t there.
“The grieving process can go anywhere 
from not really acknowledging that this 
has happened— a kind of denial—to not 
wanting to think about it or feel any­
thing,” says Sherman. “These feelings 
continued on page 6
Crime and incident report: Morewood elevator malfunctions; fire dept, responds
2/3 POSSESSION OF MARI-
1ANA, 12:34 am. A Campus 
Police officer observed at the 
¡Bramer House parking area two 
¡men smoking what appeared to 
be marijuana from a small pipe 
iyvhile seated in a grey Honda 
Accord. The men fled the vehicle 
when the officer approached. A 
ilastic bag was left on the dash- 
loard, containing what appeared 
be a small amount of mari- 
jjiana.
; 2/3 FIRE ALARM, 10:12 am. 
A Morewood Gardens resident
reported to Campus Police a 
strong odor of burning plastic on 
the 4th floor of C-Tower. Campus 
Police also received a call from 
the 6th floor stating the same. 
Several Campus Police units re­
sponded and determined the 
source of the smpke to be the C- 
Tower elevator machine room. 
The Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire 
was notified and it responded. 
The source ofthe smoke was found 
to be the main cable motor, which 
was smoking because the eleva­
tor doors were jammed.
2/4 ASSAULT, 2:33 am. While 
on patrol, a Campus Police officer 
was informed that a man had 
punched someone at Delta Tau 
Delta and had fled towards More­
wood Avenue. CMU police units 
converged on Morewood to see 
approximately thirty brothers 
from DTD runningintoMorewood 
Gardens, apparently chasing the 
man. Campus Police took control 
of the situation but could not lo­
cate the man. At DTD, the victim 
told the police that he had been at 
Pi Kappa Alpha when he encoun­
tered a student, whom he recog­
nized but did not know well. The 
student introduced himself, and 
told the victim that he was upset 
that the girlfriend of a friend of 
his had been “looking” at the vic­
tim two weeks earlier. The victim 
left Pika in the escort of a woman 
and went to DTD, but as he was 
unlocking the door the student 
came up behind him, asked him 
where he was going, and then 
punched and kicked him many 
times. The student ceased his 
attack only when the woman was
able to call DTD brothers to the 
scene. The victim suffered a bloody 
nose and a cut on the bridge of his 
nose. He applied ice to his face 
and repeatedly refused transpor­
tation to a hospital. Both the vic­
tim and the woman stated that 
the student had smelled of alco­
hol and that his friends seemed to 
be following him to DTD. Later, 
the president of DTD informed 
Campus Police that the student 
had been identified by the victim 
from the 1989 student guidebook 
and that the victim wishes to press
charges. The president was 
warned that any actions by DTD 
brothers against the student, 
would result in disciplinary ac-; 
tion, and also that the victim 
would have to press charges 
through a magistrate.
2/4 PROPERTY DAMAGE, 
4:17 am. An unknown person 
called Campus Police and re­
ported that there was trouble 
between Phi Kappa Theta and 
Delta Upsilon. The responding 
officer was told by a Phi Kap 
continued on page 5
Still making headlines.
Tartan News meetings.
Thursdays at 5:30 pm. 
Skibo Room 50 (The Tartan’s office).
If you’re interested in joining the news staff of Carnegie Mellon’s 
national award-winning college newspaper, 
stop by one of our meetings.
Or, call Farron or Michael at x2111.
E TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s student newspaper since 1906.
Ne pas se pencher dehors! Danger de mort! 
Wildtollwut! Gefährdeter Bezirk! 
¡Peligro! ¡Alto voltaje!
BNR. WHERE THE FUTURE IS MORE THAN TALK.
Our world is changing. In significant ways.
We are entering a time when distance will mean very little. When 
people will be able to communicate with each other anywhere in the 
world. Instantly. When people will be able to exchange information across 
a continent as easily as across a desk.
These changes will be created, in large part, by the people at BNR.
And by you, if you work with us.
We are the research and development subsidiary of Northern Telecom, 
one of the world’s leading producers of fully digital telecommunications 
systems.
We are an industry leader in network development and in managing 
sophisticated new software architectures and systems. We know how to 
change the way the world communicates. Talk to us.
We have careers for new graduates with majors in Computer 
Science, Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering.
Let’s talk about your future. A representative will be on your campus 
Thursday, February 15 for an Information Session and Friday, February 16 
for on-campus interviews. Contact us when we visit your campus or consult 
your college placement office. An equal opportunity employer.
BNR li
Failure to understand these warnings, 
may be hazardous to your health! 
So join us for
Carnegie Mellon’s
Summer 
Language Programs 
Abroad
and learn how to get along in 
France, Germany and Spain.
Three $5 00 tuition awards 
will be made to qualified CMU students!
Brochures and application forms in BH228B.
Attend our special information session: 
Office of International Studies 
219 Smith Hall 
February 27 at 4:00 
Refreshments will be served!

---------------------------------------------------

The world’s leading Aerospace, Aircraft Engines, R&D, and Power Systems Companies have 2 things in common.
They are all GE Companies. And they will all be at Carnegie Mellon on February 14 & IS.
Sign-up for your interview at the Career Placement Center today.
GE-We’re CMU Proud.
GE is CMU Proud. We’re proud of our CMU Graduates. And we are particularly proud of 
the special contributions they have made towards the development of innovative 
technologies here on earth, in outer space, and everywhere in between.
On February 14th and 15th we will be interviewing the business leaders, technical 
managersand innovative thinkers of the future. Don’t missthis opportunity. Signupforyour 
interview at the Career Placement Center today.
If you’re preparing for your bachelor’s or master’s degree in one of these disciplines:
ocCx1pCCmtpWxCfEDp1Lx1ppEx1L•Materials
• Accountingm(W)cfpE• Aeronautical•Mechanical
• BusinessCmxp1mp• Aerospace•Metallurgical
• EconomicsWvftN• Chemical•Nuclear
• Financev))Gxpg Wvft• Civil•Systems
• Information SystemsWBxBCB• Computer
• Integrated Logistics)tDCxmC• Electrical
Support• Industrial/
• MarketingManufacturing
And you are interested in the following business areas:
vpE(C)vmp
• Huntsville, AL
• Daytona Beach, FL
• St. Petersburg, FL
• Burlington, MA
• Pittsfield, MA
• Camden, NJ
• Moorestown, NJ
• Princeton, NJ
• Binghamton, NY
• Syracuse, NY
• Utica, NY
• Philadelphia, PA
• Valley Forge, PA
• Burlington, VT
• Washington, DC
vxEmEvIf p1Lx1pLp m(E)(Evfp
• Lynn, MA)E(LEvWC
• Cincinnati, OH• Edison Engineering
Program
m(E)(Evfp E5g• Manufacturing
• Schenectady, NYManagement Program
• Technical Sales)(7pE CDCfpWCProgram
• Windsor, CT• Financial
• Orlando, FLManagement Program
• Fitchburg, MA• Information Systems
• Schenectady, NYManagement Program
• Valley Forge, PA
• Greenville, SC
Sign-up for your 
interview today 
at the Career 
Placement Center
At GE, we know that a great tomorrow is built today. Our compensation and benefits 
programs are among the very finest in the world. The opportunities for professional growth 
and development are out of this world.
If this sounds like the kind of challenge you demand in your career, you could consider no 
better company than GE and no better time than now.
The mark of a leader
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 19905
Housing tightens dormitory security
continued from page 1
asking people to show ID cards was 
stressed at a meeting at the beginning of 
the semester with Mudge Desk Manager 
Bethanie Leonatti and Ginther.
“People don’t like to show you their 
IDs,” she said. “It’s for their own good, 
but they don’t realize that.”
The policy on checking IDs in dorms is 
similar to the system used by Carnegie 
Mellon Security at the gym. The problem 
there, according to security guard Mike 
Slater, is that people from Pitt or resi­
dents of the neighborhoods surrounding 
CMU try to use the facilities and dis­
place members of the CMU community.
Last April the Security Department 
instituted a policy of having the security 
guard on duty at the gym ask every 
person entering the building to show a 
CMU ID. People without IDs are only 
admitted as guests of members of the 
University community and each person 
may bring in only one guest at a time. 
Exceptions are made for varsity basket­
ball games and other events which draw 
a lot of visitors.
According to Carnegie Mellon Police 
Chief James LaPaglia, the policy is not 
really new. It had been in effect long 
before April but security guards had 
gotten in the habit of asking for IDs se­
lectively. LaPaglia said that when black 
students complained that blacks, espe­
cially black males, were asked for IDs 
more often that whites, Security in­
rGe.Mve D.6gC v8Ee C. 4,.W i.c C,e8I Bd4( BCg4 
t.I C,e8I .W6 s..DS UcC C,ei D.6gC Ieov85e 
C,oC()
— 7ocI8e hovv.S
___ TcDse f.c4e De4E oCCe6Do6C
structed its officers to check all IDs.
H&SS freshman Lamman Rucker, a 
member of the CMU men’s basketball 
team, says that he goes to the gym at 
least three times a week and is usually 
asked to show ID. “Sometimes I make it 
a habit just to do it because it’s supposed 
to be done,” he said.
Rucker said that if the security guard 
on duty is someone he knows, he some­
times asks if he has to show his ID and is 
usually told “no.”
Slater said that he asks everybody for 
an ID whether he knows them or not. He 
said that even if he knows a student, the 
next person coming through the door 
may be offended if Slater appears to be 
checking IDs selectively.
Most people do not like to be asked to 
show an ID, according to Slater. He said 
that because of this, “you kind ofhaveto 
be a diplomat.” He also said that many 
security guards do not like to be assigned 
to gym duty.
In addition to the service desks, two
security monitors also help to keep 
campus dormitories secure. One moni­
tor is on foot patrol near the Hill dorms 
and the other is on foot patrol near 
Morewood and Mudge. To better serve 
residents in off-campus housing, one 
Carnegie Mellon Police unit is assigned 
to patrol the area north of campus in 
which most University apartments are 
found.
Ginther hopes that the policy will 
become easier to enforce as students 
grow accustomed to it. However, she 
says that the Housing Office is willing to 
examine the prospects of staffing the 
service desks with full-time security 
monitors — like the system in use at the 
gym — as a last resort if the current 
arrangement with students proves in­
adequate.
LaPaglia says that such a change would 
require some changes in budgeting and 
in the way security in dorms is moni­
tored, but added that it’s something that 
could be done.
Student Affairs associate dean 
plans early summer retirement
continued from page 1
tirement as a definite loss. “She’s 
great.... She’s definitely going to be 
missed,” he said. Murphy said Cox’s 
support was invaluable with his own 
transition into the position of acting 
dean, as well as with her involvement 
in Student Senate and the Freshman 
Orientation program. “I owe her agreat 
debt of gratitude,'’ he said.
According to Murphy, some of Cox’s 
present responsibilities will shift to 
other people and another assistant 
dean, who will be appointedby June 1. 
Cox will be involved in screeningin the 
impending national search for this 
assistant dean.
Vice President for Enrollment Wil­
liam Elliott also praised Cox. “She’s 
served the students of Carnegie Mel­
lon in an elegant manner.... She’s 
worked very hard,” he said.
Before coming to Carnegie Mellon, 
Cox graduated from Stanford Univer­
sity and was the senior cost account­
ant for ALCOA. She left her job to get 
married and have children. Upon her 
return to the job market, interesting 
circumstances led her to CMU.
“As I began my job search,” she re­
counted, “I drove out to the University 
of Pittsburgh and there were no park­
ing spaces open. So I drove on and
rb4 B Ueso6 ui /.U 
4eoIA,S B DI.le .cC 
C. C,e w68leI48Ci .t 
G8CC4UcIs, o6D C,eIe 
WeIe 6. MoIE86s 
4MoAe4 .Me6( N. B 
DI.le .6 o6D Aoue 
,eIe()
— 7.84 x.JH 
o44.A8oCe Deo6
came here.”
Looking back on the progress of the 
University over the years, Cox said, 
“I’ve seen a lot of changes in this uni­
versity for the better. I look forward to 
the University Center for the students.” 
“We’re all sorry to see her go and 
wish her the best of luck in the future,” 
said Student Government President 
Mark Mittelhauser. “She was always 
very helpful with students and easy to 
work with — a very warm person and 
administrator.”
Crime and incident report: Morewood elevator malfunctions; fire dept, responds
continued from page 3
brother that a brother from DU 
ripped off a 4’ by 3’ screen from 
the kitchen window. After a dis­
cussion with both fraternities’ 
presidents, it was decided that 
DU would pay for the damage.
2/4 VANDALISM, before 2:30 
pm. Unknown persons entered 
room 2318 in Wean Hall and 
damaged several objects inside, 
including a plastic bottle, glass 
beakers, and a thermometer.
2/5 THEFT, 4:47 pm. Some­
time during the last week, un­
known persons removed an over­
head projector from room 5409 
Wean Hall.
2/8 SUSPICIOUS VEHICLE/ 
VEHICLE THEFT & RECOV­
ERY, 2:20 am. Campus Police 
officers in a squad car heard 
honking coming from a white 
Chevrolet Celebrity sitting with 
its lights on at the end of the
fraternity driveway beside Sigma 
Nu. The officers noticed a man 
walking up the fraternity drive­
way towards a white Trans Am 
parked across from Pi Lambda 
Phi. When the honking caught 
his attention he turned and 
walked back to the Celebrity. The 
Celebrity turned south on More- 
wood and the officers pulled out 
behind the vehicle to get a plate 
number and description of the 
occupants. They then followed the 
Celebrity east on Forbes and then 
north on Beeler. At no time did 
either vehicle increase its speed, 
and the policemen did not use 
their lights or try to pull the 
vehicle over. Instead, information 
was radioed to the City Police and 
it was stopped by City ofPittburgh 
units at Wightman and Wilkins. 
The individuals in the vehicle 
were identified as all from the 
Wilkinsburg Area. The vehicle
was registered to Nifty Car 
Rental. Ten minutes before this 
incident began, a CMU student 
had phoned Campus Police to 
report that his vehicle had been 
stolen from the fraternity park­
ing area next to the Pi Kappa 
Alpha house. The vehicle, a Chevy 
Blazer, was seen by the victim 
traveling north on Morewood 
Avenue towards Fifth. This infor­
mation was radioed to all Carne­
gie Mellon and City of Pittsburgh 
police units. Approximately thirty 
minutes later, the vehicle was 
found at Dombush and Calistoga 
Streets. The victim was immedi­
ately transported to the location. 
The vehicle incurred a broken side 
window and a popped ignition, so 
it was parked in the new parking 
garage for safekeeping. Appar­
ently, the individuals observed in 
the white Celebrity were involved 
in the theft. A check with Wilk-
insburg Police by City of Pitts­
burgh Police, concerning the oc­
cupants of the car, indicated that 
they are known car thieves.
2/8 BICYCLE ACCIDENT, 9 
am. While proceeding west on 
Margaret Morrison Street on his 
mountain bicycle, a student at­
tempted to turn south onto Tech 
Street. At this time, the bicycle 
slipped out form under him and 
he fell, striking the pavement. He 
sustained lacerations and contu­
sions to the nose and forehead 
areas. Responding officers and a 
student EMS unit found him alert 
and conscious. Several gauze 
dressings were applied to control 
bleeding. The victim was then 
transported by a City of Pitts­
burgh EMS unit to Presbyterian 
Hospital. A friend of the victim 
locked up the bicycle at the Don- 
ner Hall rack.
2/9 INSTITUTIONAL VAN­
DALISM, 2:28 am. A person
notified Campus Police tjiat 
someone had just broken off the 
exit gate at the Tech Garage. The 
responding officers stopped and 
questioned the perpetrator and 
during questioning noticed an 
open bottle of Michelob Lite beer 
in his possesion. He was issued 
two CMU citations for institu­
tional vandalism and violation of 
liquor laws.
Compiled by DANIEL D.
DE GRANDPRE
7x11x1L CfEvfpLxpC 7x11x1L mvEppEC
Together, these words define 
a powerful strategy that is 
helping Tandem Computers 
shape the future. For new 
grads, that means the hottest 
career opportunities around.
In the technical arena, you’ll 
find yourself involved in 
important projects right away. 
Like applying RISC to future 
fault-tolerant UNIX* systems, 
focusing on SQL database 
technology, and creating an 
open application develop­
ment environment.
Tandem expects a lot of our 
new grads. And we give a lot 
back. Find out more when 
Tandem comes to campus.
On Campus 
Interviews:
February 15
Schedule for:
> Technical/Professional 
Writing
For more information, con­
tact your Placement Center. 
We are an equal opportunity 
employer m/f/h/v.
fi TANDEM
Hr where you can make a difference.
College Relations, Tandem Computers Incorporated 
IO6OO Ridgeview Court, MS229-17, Cupertino, CA 95014-0704
•UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T.
The Carnegie Mellon 
chapter of Delta Tau Delta
and the Chatham
College Class of 1993 present
The First AnnualMidnight Madness
Philanthropic Event
To benefit the 
Make-A-Wish Foundation
of Western Pennsylvania
For more information 
call the
Midnight ToD6e44 Hotline 
268.3572

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
Dealing with death: How we 
cope with losing a loved one
rB C,86E 8C uoEe4 c4 ovv oWoIe C,oC 
ele6 i.c6s Me.Mve Ao6 D8e()
— hve6 N,eIuo6S 
x.c64ev86s o6D NCcDe6C delev.Mue6C
talk with somebody with more 
professional experience, that we 
offer counseling and you’re free to 
make an appointment.
“In those first few days or weeks, 
it’s natural to feel troubled, but if 
that person wants to talk about it 
with someone else, that’s a very 
natural tendency, too,” he says. 
“It’s okay. Some people want and 
need to be left alone a while to be 
able to integrate the death into 
themselves, and that can be okay, 
too, as long as they’re not in any 
kind of danger.”
Murphy also stresses the re­
sources available to students at 
any time of loss, including the 
campus ministry, the Counseling 
Center, and other University- 
sponsored programs instituted to 
provide support and counseling
for students facing loss.
Golden’s friends are left with 
their memories: his distinctive 
laugh, the way he “buzzed down 
Forbes in his little Escort,” his 
way of dancing and picking up 
girls at parties.
As O’Keefe points out, “That’s 
good, because he’s still alive in a 
way.”
The brothers take solace in the 
belief that Golden is watching over 
them at the very moment, insur­
ing the future success of the house. 
“He’s looking down at us goin’, 
‘Mmm, you guys...’,” Mawhinney 
assures.
“We’re going to win buggy and 
basketball this year because he’s 
watching out for us,” adds Wyatt.
“He’ll be there running beside 
everybody,” agrees Mawhinney.
continued from page 3
can go on for days, for weeks, per­
haps for months or even longer, to 
a gradual recognition that this 
person is really gone. Oftentimes, 
in a situation where you would 
expect to encounter that person 
or be involved with that person, it 
creeps up on you that he’s not 
going to be here. In other words, 
it’s becoming aware of the ab­
sence of this person in a particu­
lar context where you expected to 
be with him.”
; O’Keefe can identify with that 
fueling. “You spend two years with 
aj guy on campus,” he says, “and 
you walk around in the buildings 
and you say, ‘Oh, I remember that 
place when we were here to­
gether,’ and, ‘Oh, yeah, we were 
in this room when we had class 
together; this is the place where 
vfe’d always hang out,’ and then 
y!ou’d tell a story about that.”
Telling stories about a departed 
friend, according to Sherman, is 
just one of the innumerable ways 
in which people come to terms 
with their grief. “Some people 
need some time to themselves,” 
he says. “They’re not ready to talk 
right away — but I think that 
that has to be respected if they’re 
not doing anything to indicate 
they’re in danger. But it’s also 
important for them to have the 
option to talk if they want to, 
either one on one or in a group.
“Suppose, for example,” he 
suggests, “that there is a sudden 
death of a resident on a dormitory 
floor. One of the things that people 
find helpful is a group meeting 
where they can process the expe­
rience. The important thing to re­
member about that is that some­
one should be there who is quali­
fied to do group processing. People 
will seek out friends for informal 
help, but in a group situation it’s 
often helpful to have someone who 
is trained to help the group proc­
ess the situation.
“Though processing grief may 
take a long time,” he warns, “a 
person may be grieving too hard 
for too long if he or she is having 
trouble living daily life months 
after the death of a loved one. If 
ordinary, everyday responsibili­
ties are difficult to carry out in 
the short run, that’s to be ex­
pected; your appetite may not be 
quite the same or you may sleep 
less, especially in the first few 
days or weeks after the death. As 
time goes on in ensuing months, if 
these symptoms don’t abate, that’s 
something to be concerned about.”
Sherman agrees with Murphy’s 
contention that a death at a uni­
versity has implications for all of 
the students: “It raises the issue 
of mortality,” he says. “I think it 
makes us aware that even young 
people can die. It makes us stop 
and reflect on the value of life and 
it halts us in our everyday experi­
ence. We don’t think about death 
unless we’re presented with it.”
; Sherman says that it’s impor­
tant to be available to friends who 
are dealing with the loss of a loved 
ojne. “Try to be in tune with with 
v^hat the person experiencing the 
loss is going through,” he says. 
“Be sensitive to their needs. Are 
they askingfor a little space? You 
can offer your willingness to talk 
and listen and see what they do 
with it. You can say,‘Look, I know 
you lost a very dear friend; if you 
want to talk, I’m available.’ Or 
you could even recommend to 
them that if they feel the need to
RESEARCH PAPERS
19,278 to choose from - allsubjects 
Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD 
TOLL FREE HOTLINE: 800-351-0222
Or rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 
;i!322 Idaho Ave.. tf 206-SN Los Angeles.CA 90025
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION 
OR BIG SCREEN TV 
PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 
IN JUST 10 DAYS!
Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal 
Money: Raise $ l ,400
Cost: Zero Investment
Campus organizations, clubs, 
frats, sororities call OCMC at 
1(800)932-0528 or 1(800)950-8472 ext. 10
If you spend a lot of time on the phone, the AT&TReach Out" America Plan could save you a lot on your long 
distance bill. And you don’t have to stay up late to do it. Starting at 5 pm, the AT&T Reach Out America Plan takes 
an additional 25% off our already reduced evening prices.
To find out more, call us at 1800 REACH OUT, ext. 4093.
And don’t worry we’ll keep it brief.
Discount applies to out-of-staie alls direct dialed 510 pm, Sunday-Frkiav. 
This service may not be available in all residence halls.AT&T
The right choice.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor
Renee Sarracino, 25, of Burgettstown, was driving this 1987 Pontiac Firebird when it hydroplaned while 
travelling south on Morewood Avenue early Saturday morning. Sarracino, and her passengers, Susan 
Farley and Clay Styn, both of Pittsburgh, were transported by EMTs to Presbyterian University Hospital 
where they were held for observation. None of the occupants are affiliated with the University.
Announcing an offer designed to save money for people w ho are, well, a bit long-winded when it comes to, you know talking on the phone, and who, quite understandably don’t want to have to wait till after 11 pm to get a deal on long distance prices.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 19907
Search for Student Affairs dean will focus on internal candidates
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 /
job to some greater or larger degree, and 
that’s obviously why it makes sense to 
look at those people who are interested 
in the job.“
Presently, said Elliott, a general cen­
sus conducted over the past few months 
of Murphy’s performance by a variety of 
student and faculty groups shows that 
“people are very happy about where we
are — they feel we are on an inclination 
progress curve, and they want to stay on 
that curve.”
Associate Dean of Student Affairs Lois 
Cox is quite impressed with Murphy’s 
performance to date. “Mike Murphy has 
been doing an absolutely fantastic job 
and would make an excellent dean,” she 
said.
Elliott also expressed confidence in
Murphy’s abilities. “I’m sure he’d con­
tinue to do the fine job he’s doing,” he 
said.
The dean of Student Affairs is respon­
sible for planning and implementing ori­
entation, overseeing student organiza­
tions, and supervising and operating the 
Division of Student Affairs.
“We’re on a roll,” said Elliott, “and it’s 
a roll we’d like to stay on.” He points out
that the University has a need for some­
one who “can keep us on the roll we are 
on now, someone who knows something 
about the University.”
For this reason, the search has been 
restricted to Carnegie Mellon faculty and 
staff in the hopes that if someone other 
than Murphy gets the nod, their famili­
arity with the campus community will 
avoid any interruptions or irregularities
in the current upswing on the “progress 
curve.”
Even Elliott is unsure of what kind of 
progress the search has made since it' 
was announced.
“So where we are now,” he explained, 
“is that the job has been posted in the 
personnel office and [elsewhere] on 
campus—but I do not know that anyone 
has applied for the job yet.”
Skibo plans may include food court
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 /
available at the Tartan Grill, the 
new facility would also incorpo­
rate a salad bar section intended 
to replace Salads Plus, an a la 
carte deli counter, a pastry/bak­
ery outlet with gourmet coffees 
such as espresso and cappucino, 
and a special “international” 
counter, according to Gurley.
The international counter 
would offer particular themes or 
national cuisines for approxi­
mately six weeks each over the 
next two years as a trial feature, 
according to Gurley. The purpose 
of having trial periods of many 
different national styles is to de­
termine which options students 
prefer and would most like to have 
implemented in the University 
Center.
“This is where we really feel we 
can do some testing,” Gurley 
added.
Gurley also said that the food 
court area would feature more 
countertop self-service like that 
now offered at the Tartan Grill; 
for example, the large metal milk 
dispensers in Kiltie would proba­
bly be replaced with refrigerators 
containing Soho sodas and New 
York Seltzers. Also, the food serv­
ice lines in the Kiltie space would 
be reconfigured so that each side 
would offer different selections, 
rather than the mirror-image 
setup now in use.
rm,e 8Deo 84 C. A.ue cM W8C, o soue 
Mvo6 W,8A, s8le4 c4 o AIeoC8le c4e .t 
4MoAe(p
— T8A,oev TcIM,i; 
oAC86s Deo6 .t NCcDe6C btto8I4
Seating in the food court would 
be a mix of traditional table-and- 
chair arrangements and more 
casual, lounge-type furnishings, 
according to Murphy. The less 
traditional setup would help make 
the new facility more of a “central 
lounge area,” says Murphy.
If the food court plan is imple­
mented, the space now occupied 
by Salads Plus would house the 
pool tables and video arcade cur­
rently located outside of the Tar­
tan Grill.
A retail section of the bookstore, 
offering such items as sweatshirts, 
mugs, and other Carnegie Mellon 
paraphernalia, may also move to 
Skibo’s lower level.
The space currently housing the 
Tartan Grill would ideally be 
converted into more study- or 
meeting-oriented rooms such as 
conference rooms and study 
lounges, Murphy said.
According to Keating, the up­
per balcony level will be used for 
“more private” areas, some of
which may be available for use as 
office space for student organiza­
tions.
“The idea is to come up with a 
game plan which gives us a crea­
tive use of space,” said Murphy.
According to Keating, implem­
entation of the plan would cost 
between $50,000 and $100,000. 
“We don’t want to spend a lot of 
money,” he added.
Murphy agreed. “The big con­
straint is money,” he said.
If the idea proves feasible, a 
proposal will be submitted to the 
Capital Allocations Board, 
chaired by President Cyert.
The Board would examine the 
proposal and evaluate its prior­
ity, and would make a decision 
within the next few months, said 
Keating. If the Board decides to 
go ahead with the project, reno­
vations would begin this summer. 
Gurley hopes that the food court 
would be in place by the start of 
classes in the second session early 
this summer.
Student Dormitory Council 
Housing Committee 
Open Forum
with Tony Martin 
Director of Housing
We will be discussing these issues:
- Housing Budget
- Room Rates
- Telephone Service
- AT&T Long Distance Service
- $4.00 allotment for local calls
- Students being permitted to designate a full 
complement of suite mates for rooms in the new dorm.
- Status of non-residents and there ability to select 
space for next year in CMU housing.
If you are concerned about any of these issues and would 
like to discuss them with Tony Martin or myself and the 
SDC Housing Committee, meet in front of the SDC office 
Skibo 55 at 3:45 on February 15, (this Thursday) and we 
will move to a room for the meeting.
Greg Rhoads
SDC Housing Chairman
carnegie mellón university presents
BLACK HISTORY MONTH 
1990
... an J shll we rise
REMAINING EVENTS
February 15 The ‘Roots of the Straggle. (zv/Trof. James Andersen) 
‘Doherty Hiatt 1112 @ 5:00 pm
February 15 A3 Concert: Ladysmith. ‘Blacl^iAiambazo 
Skibo 9-CaCC ‘Ballroom @ 7:30-pm
February 18 Luncheon zaithDiallo %ofiScott (founder of SPIRIT]
‘Time and (Place to be ¡Announced
February 20 rBCac(<i ‘Entrepreneurship in the '90s (zu/Michaet
Qooden)
‘Hamburg ¡Hail1000 @ 5:00 pm
February 22 Movie: "‘Biacl^by ‘Popular ‘Demand” (zv/discussion)
Doherty Hall 1112 @ 7:30 pm
February 25 ‘Talent Show: SPIRIT at the Apollo 
‘Time and “Place to be Announced
For more information callSfPPRJ‘T@ 268-3850
J%([ engagements subject to change in time andCocation 
funded 6y Student Activities fee w/speciai he[p from tie Department erf Student Affairs
•Are you overly concerned with your weight 
or appearance?
•Are you extremely afraid of becoming 
overweight?
•Do you frequently restrict your intake of 
food, go on diets or resort to the use of 
purging, laxatives, diuretics or vigorous exer­
cise to control your weight?
•Do you go on eating binges and feel guilty 
afterwards?
If you answer “yes” to any or all of these 
questions, consider joining a confidential 
Eating Disorders Group sponsored by the 
CMU Counseling center. The group will 
meet this semester for nine sessions. For 
more information call x2922.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Ball is successful but pricey
You’ve heard the grumbling 
before: “This school is boring,” 
“CMU students have no social life,” 
and so on, ad infinitum.
Congratulations to the people 
whp changed that, if only for a 
night. The 1990 Beaux Arts Ball 
was one of the most positive events 
to happen at CMU for some time, 
celebrating both CFA and the 
University community as a whole.
The people organizing the event 
had no small task ahead of them. 
The feeling that Beaux Arts 
couldn’t be held without alcohol 
was so great that it was a primary 
factor in the cancellation of last 
year’s scheduled Ball.
But traditions don’t get killed 
that easily, even on a campus filled 
with skeptics. The Ball went on 
without serving alcohol, and 
people still had a great time.
By the time the Ball rolled 
around, people were excited about 
it; that’s what made it work. Par- 
tygoers didn’t show up and expect 
to be entertained into enjoying 
themselves. The costumes, the 
decorations, and the spirit that 
went into preparing for the ball 
were half the fun.
Not that the entertainment 
wasn’t good — it certainly was.
There were 21 bands, ranging from 
jazz to steel drum to hard rock, 
playing music for every taste.
The Ball was definitely a blast, 
marred by one problem — the 
ticket price. It was fun — but not, 
we think, $31 worth of fun.
The high ticket price managed 
to shut out some students who 
might have otherwise attended 
the Ball. It also helped to set 
expectations for the Ball that were 
unrealistic. Despite the Beaux 
Arts committee’s best efforts, the 
decorations were not especially 
elaborate; some refreshments 
were not outstandingly good, or 
sufficient in quantity; some music 
was not incredibly enjoyable.
For $31, students might have 
expected more than they got from 
Beaux Arts; they might also have 
not attended because of cost. 
Maybe future Balls can manage 
to offer the same entertainment 
at two-thirds the price.
Nevertheless, congratulations 
must go out to Beaux Arts chair 
and fifth-year architecture major 
Mariko Braswell and her commit­
tee of Ball organizers. They did a 
remarkable job bringing the 
Beaux-Arts Ball back to CFA, 
where we all know it belongs.
wmnubilyw asAi,S 6nJ8. .8l.8
Student safety at Carnegie 
Mellon took a step forward last 
week when Assistant Director of 
Housing for Residence Life Amy 
Ginther instructed desk atten­
dants at Donner, Morewood Gar­
dens, and Mudge to make sure 
that everybody entering the dorms 
has either a key or a CMU ID.
In theory, the policy has been in 
effect for a long time, but it has 
been rarely enforced. While desk 
attendants usually will not open a 
door for a person who has not 
shown an ID, they often fail to 
challenge the “trailers” who enter 
behind a key- or ID-holder.
It is easy to understand why IDs 
are not checked. Students often 
obj ect when they are asked to show 
IDs, and most of the people enter­
ing the dorms really are CMU stu­
dents. It is easier to let it slide —• 
easier, that is, until somebody gets 
in who shouldn’t.
Students are notoriously bad 
about taking safety precautions, 
especially in their rooms. We’ve 
all left our doors unlocked when
leaving for a few minutes. And 
we’ve all had those few minutes 
turn into half an hour.
Also, nearly every student has 
gone to sleep with his or her door 
unlocked, even though we know 
we shouldn’t. Last semester the 
residents of two Morewood Gar­
dens rooms awoke to find strang­
ers in their rooms.
These bad habits on the part of 
students make it all the more 
important to keep dorm access 
under control.
Fortunately, there have been no 
major incidents in CMU’s dorms 
on the level of the murder of a 
Lehigh University student in her 
room a few years ago. Housing 
officials here don’t need such an 
incident to get them thinking 
about security.
Checking IDs is a good policy 
and should be carried out by desk 
attendants with the full coopera­
tion of students. It takes a few 
seconds at most to show an ID — 
a small price to pay for added 
security and peace of mind.
THE TARTAN
pbirsuHilH,Pi8TBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBts4bS )i8u,8
Wnlnyily pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWi,Pn8A fB Es.8
oe.il8.. Wnlny8uBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBIunlJ giFirs
184. pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWi,Pn8A 0B p48bs.P
v..rB 184. pbirsu.BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBInuusl 7B G8MS
1i,sA8 ous,J6nll
Isue6 pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBCe.nl v2un6.
v..rB Isue6 pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBB1nrPnl IeAA8ursl
Casur. pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB9nri8 meA28ur.sl
v..rB Casur. pbirsu.BBBBBBBBBB0n.sl W,gslnAb
I8nreu8. pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB98Mil onul8S
v..rB I8nreu8. pbirsu. BBBBBBBBpui, W,vlnAA8l
g8Ur8u fB 9s2nSn.Pi
giM8u.isl. pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBCr8aP8l LAi,J8u
v..rB giM8u.isl. pbirsu. BBBgn4l ous.sl.Ji 
f8uui 9n.,P
mnA8lbnu pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB7iAAin6 oeuJS
Wnynkil8 pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB08lliT8u 98u.r8il
v..rB Wnynkil8 pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB0eAi8 Gie
gs..i8u Gir8unuS pbirsuBBBBBBBmPui.rsaP8u 9e.P
gs..i8u g8.iyl pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBCssHf.e G8ly
vur pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB7iAAin6 mB Cn2un6
v..rB vur pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB9ui.riln osAlA.
)Psrs pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBfPs6n. 1i,PsA.
v..rB )Psrs pbirsuBBBBBBBBBBBxylnrie. Cn.6irn
gnuJuss6 Wnlny8uBBBBBBBBBBBBBfnb gs,J.rnb8u
)usbe,risl Wnlny8uBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB)neA8rrn )nl
msaS Wnlny8uBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB1nrnAi8 )8r8u.sl
mslrui2erily pbirsu.h
9nuA CB onulPnur Lunlr mnu6i,Pn8A 
0n68. oB plbu8. mnuAs. tB Iunl,s 
ge.ril Iunki8u Cr84nur 0B G8Mil8
0slnrPnl G8MS 0s8S GSll Wsln,s
gsl )i,J8rr 0s.P gB Ee28l 
Ee.. C8AAy6nl 9nuSl CiAMn
mnul8yi8 W8AAsl cliM8u.irS—. .reb8lr l84.ana8u .il,8 /•3q
The Tnrtan is Iho student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the (all 
and spring semesters, at no cost to members ol the University 
community. It Is printod by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. 
Subscriptions are available (orthesemesteroracademlcyear. The 
Editorials appearing at the beginning olthe opinion section are the 
official opinion ol The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions ol individual authors. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
ol authors who are usually, but not necessarily members ol the 
University community. A letter intended (or publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone number (or 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re­
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copy-
right © 1990 by Tho Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the rightto withhold (ram publication any copy itdeems unfit forpub- 
lication.
(TTi,8h CJi2s z3 -!/R: Rq;HR/// 
WniAily nbbu8..h fP8 fnurnl N osU /’ N
mnul8yi8 W8AAsl cliM8u.irS N
)irr.2euyP_ )v /zR/XHX;•3 
Ielb8b 2S rP8 v,riMiri8. I88B
vAA uiyPr. u8.8uM8bB
Gi2unuS sT mslyu8.. xCC1 &h 3;•3HX/3’B
Invasion of Panama was justified
om
G8rr8u rs 
rP8 pbirsu
Editor:
Last week The Tar­
tan printed a letter to 
the editor regarding 
the military action in 
Panama [“U.S. inter­
ference in Panama unacceptable,” 2/6]. 
The authors stated that such action was 
illegal and cited several treaties to 
support that stand. It will be argued 
below that the authors took relevant 
passages of the treaties out of context. 
Furthermore, I will argue that such 
action on the part of the United States 
was legal and justified.
First, they cite Chapter 1, Article 2 of 
the United Nations Charter. The actual 
text reads “All members shall refrain in 
their intentional relations from the 
threat or use of force against the territo­
rial integrity or political independence 
of any member or state or in any other 
manner inconsistent with the purposes 
of the United Nations.”
Thus, any act inconsistent with the 
U.N. charter is an act of aggression. 
Turning to the Inter-American Treaty 
of Reciprocal Assistance (Treaty of Rio), 
a working definition of “aggression” can 
be found. Article 9 states “...the follow­
ing shall be considered an unprovoked 
armed attack by a state against the ter­
ritory, the people, or the land, sea, or air 
forces of another state.”
On December 15, 1989 Noriega de­
clared Panama and the Untied States to 
be “in a state of war.” The Panamanian 
government declared war on the U.S. in
response to legal economic sanctions. Such 
sanctions are not acts of aggression — 
declarations of war are.
Noriega’s statement was followed by 
the killing of an unarmed serviceman 
and the wounding and harassment of 
three others on December 16. An uncon­
firmed report stated that Noriega was 
planning to move against the 34,000 U.S. 
nationals in Panama.
The White House press secretary, as 
quoted in the New York Times on Decem­
ber 20, 1989, said “The integrity of the 
Panama Canal Treaties was at risk with 
General Noriega in power. President Bush 
had made every effort to resolve the situ­
ation peacefully, but that American lives 
were now at risk.”
Secretary of State James Baker con­
curred, citing Article 51 of the U.N. arid 
Article 18 of the Organization of Ameri­
can States treaties, which grant the right 
to protect U.S. nationals and military 
personnel. He further stated that the 
U.N. recognized that legitimate Panama 
leader Guillermo Endara encouraged the 
U.S. action. Endara has been calling for 
U.S. assistance since the failed coup at­
tempt in October 1989. The fact that 
Endara requested our presence indicates 
that the U.S. did not violate the right to 
self-determinism.
U.N. Charter, Chapter 8, Article 52 al­
lows for the application of regional trea­
ties first. The OAS, Treaty of Rio, and the 
Pact of Bogota were signed in accordance 
with this. All reaffirm Article 51 of the 
U.N. Charter, the right to self-defense.
Also, Chapter 3, Article 18 of the OAS 
allows for action in accordance with 
application of any concurrent treaty. The 
Panama Canal Treaty clearly delineates 
those cases in which the U.S. may in­
vade. “If the canal is closed or its opera­
tions are interfered with, the U.S. and 
the Republic of Panama shall each inde­
pendently have the right to take such 
steps as it deems necessary ... including 
the use of military force in Panama....” 
Under Article 4 of this treaty, the U.S. 
has the right and obligation to act to 
preserve the integrity of the canal.
General Noriega’s continued reign was 
interfering with the canal treaty. This, 
coupled with unprovoked attacks of 
aggression on American citizens, 
prompted U.S. response. Noriega’s dec­
laration of war violated the Treaty of 
Rio’s condemnation of war. Further, his 
use of repression violates Chapter 2, 
Article 5; Chapter 3, Article 13; and 
Chapter 4, Article 29 of the OAS charter. 
These passages affirm the rights of an 
individual. Under this, the U.S. was ar­
guably responding to a direct threat to 
democracy in the region and was not vio­
lating the territorial integrity of the coun­
try.
The aforementioned treaties can be 
found in the books Treaties And Alli­
ances Of The World and The Inter- 
American System. Special thanks to Sue 
Collins for her assistance.
Paul Massey 
Sophomore, ECE
U.S. intrusion did not hurt Panama
Editor:
I feel that I need to 
reply to last week’s 
letter about the U.S. 
invasion of Panama 
[“U.S. interference in
OBiS
G8rr8u rs 
rP8 pbirsu
Panama unacceptable,” 2/6].
I would like to keep this letter simple; 
I support the U.S. invasion of Panama. I 
believe it was an excellent opportunity 
for our soldiers to get some practical 
combat experience. After all, the Soviet
soldiers got to beat up on Afghanistan for 
a while.
Heck, Panama got off easy.
Peter Smith 
Sophomore, Mech E
Health Services needs faster action
Editor:
I recently under­
went an experience 
that I hope will never 
happen again, to me 
or to anyone else.
G8rr8u rs 
rP8 pbirsu
I had been ill for quite some time, but 
never bothered to go to Health Services 
because I did not have the time. Finally, 
at the end of the second week when I 
noticed I was having trouble breathing, 
I decided I could not put off this visit any 
longer because I was jeopardizing my 
health.
I went to Health Services half asleep 
prepared to wait for a while, but not for 
very long since there were only a few 
people in there before me. Besides, I had 
to go to work later that afternoon.
I signed in at 1:02 pm, sat around,
read a magazine, watched 13 more people 
wait beside me, coughed, sneezed, and 
used up the office’s tissues. I told the 
receptionist why I was there, and asked if 
I could be given proper medical attention 
within a reasonable amount of time. I 
wasn’t looked at until I had waited for 
exactly 1 hour and 48 minutes.
When I was finally looked at, I was 
relieved to know that I didn’t have the flu, 
but some other non-life-threatening 
complications instead. Within 15 min­
utes, I was back in my room sleeping with 
my prescription drug right next to me.
There is a sign on the back of the door 
in Health Services which says, “Please be 
patient. The same time and considera­
tion will be given to you when it is your 
turn.” I think I waited long enough. In 
fact, I waited 7 times longer than my
examination took. I was exhausted, and 
on top of that, I didn’t get money for my 
paycheck because my work hours were 
then over.
I am not undermining Health Services’ 
competence —-the nurses who looked at 
me showed extreme care and concern. I 
am simply annoyed that I had to wait so 
long to be examined. Who knows, I could 
have died during the time I had to wait. 
Perhaps there is a shortage of profes­
sionals, or maybe they were too busy 
having a rather long lunch hour. What­
ever the reason may be, I sincerely hope 
it does not happen again — the lives of 
one of our students may be in their hands 
someday. Is that person going to have to 
wait as long as I did, too?
Name withheld upon request
gse2r. n2ser cliM8u.irS—. wgiM8u.irS— ,n6aniyl
60 Coarse
Michael Drout
We are right now in the hands of 
administrators and a student govern­
ment who, with all good intentions (we 
hope) are working to create a new way of 
life for students. Wijth all the fervor of
crusaders who have just captured a city, 
they wish to convert all of us to correct 
and true beliefs.
This crusade towards a “politically 
correct” University has been in progress 
for some time. But it is only in the past 
semester and a half that the crusaders 
have begun to truly reap the benefits of 
their political war. With the institution of 
a mandatory “Diversity” class, the ma­
chinery for the ideological re-education of
Carnegie Mellon will be in place and 
those vocal students and administrators 
who have fought for so long to force their 
beliefs on others will be able to sit back 
and relax, letting the infrastructure they 
have built work for them.
There have already been successes, 
overtly — and covertly. While the use of 
a political campaign slogan (“Diversity,” 
of course) for freshman camp is the most 
,slrile8b sl any8 •

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 19909
It’s important to have time for fun
I was in the Tartan Grill yester­
day, instead of being in class, 
when I was joined by a friend. I 
[^ew that he had class at the mo­
ment, and that he was fairly stu­
dious. Something was up.
“What are you doing here?” I 
isked.
“I could ask you the same ques­
tion.”“Yeah. I dunno. I got up a little 
late this morning, and I felt really 
[. I was tired and coughing—I 
figured it was more important to 
ret a little more sleep and some 
than to go to class. I mean, 
jit’s that time of the year when 
[people get sick—my roommate’s 
sick — and I don’t want to get 
¡feeling under. You look a little 
,ale yourself.”
“I had one of those ridiculous 
7:30 physics tests — what kind of 
fiend would schedule a test for 
7:3.0? Most of us don’t finish study­
ing until 2 am or 3 am anyway. 
Sometimes I think the teachers
Don Pickett
in this place all minored in un­
subtlety. It’s amazing. But, hey, 
the weather’s awesome outside. I 
think a good doctor would tell us 
to play frisbee, and, remember, 
always listen to your doctor.”
We wandered outside, found 
some more friends, and set up a 
great ultimate game. Warm 
weather, good friends, a 165g fris­
bee — what more does one need?
Walking back from the game, I 
found myself walkingbeside him. 
“What’s up with you? You seem 
preoccupied.”
‘You know, I think I’ve had it 
with this working-my-ass-off at­
titude. I’m gonna keep my grades 
good, but I’m not going to get all 
A’s—it just isn’t worth it. College 
is supposed to be fun, right? So
why ruin it by working until you’re 
so stressed out or tired, when the 
most fun you can have is sleep? I 
was walking through ’Schlag last 
night, and I saw people working. 
On a Saturday night!
“I’m not saying that they’re 
wrong to work, but they should at 
least get out and go to a movie or 
meet people. One of the best things 
about college is that, for four years, 
people let you be who you want to 
be. There are no pre-definitions, 
no molds to fill. For maybe the 
only time in your life, you are free 
to define yourself as you wish. 
Why waste this by burying your­
self under a pile of books? Some­
times this place really pisses me 
off. *My heart is in the work.’Yeah, 
well, that may be so, but if that’s 
all you have, then you aren’t much 
of a person.”
He seemed upset about it — 
that other people weren’t making 
the most out of their personal 
freedom time.
“Are you sad about this?” I had 
to ask.
‘Yeah, well, pissed off I guess. I 
mean, here we are, in probably 
the most freedom we’ll ever have, 
and some people are trapped by 
this workload, by these enormous 
expectations they think that have 
to fulfill. I know a girl who has to 
keep like a 3.5 to retain her schol­
arship, but that doesn’t stop her. 
She’s making the most of this 
place. I just wish that other people 
would, too. There’s a lot of people, 
wasting a lot of opportunities 
they’ll never have again.”
We went back, got our books 
and assorted school stuff, and 
went home. I did some work, and 
then we rented a VCR and 
watched movies until three in the 
morning. I think it was time well 
spent.
Don Pickett is an H&SS fresh­
man who is determined to have 
some fun, never mind school.
CMDS’ new cups can be hazardous
The other day my friend Jim 
and I were discussing Dining 
Service’s decision to stop using 
styrofoam and other products that 
are endangering our world. We 
were in the Tartan Grill, eating 
hamburgers wrapped in paper, 
eating french fries from paper 
:cups, and also drinking sodas from 
paper cups after we shoved the 
lids on them.
The change in the material of 
the cups was the only thing that 
;was different from all the past 
meals we had eaten there. And 
we never even noticed it until Jim 
realized he could no longer draw 
little pictures in the paper cups, 
like he had been able to on the 
styrofoam.
“Hey, what happened? I used to
Susan Abrams
be able to draw your face in these 
cups,” Jim started.
“Well, in case you haven’t yet 
noticed, Dining Service has 
stopped using everything that is 
harmful to our universe,” I an­
swered.
“They must have forgotten to 
stop cooking this stuff, then.”
“Jim, I’m not talking about the 
food.”
“Hey, I know. You’re talking 
about the cups.”
“Yeah. You know, they aren’t 
using styrofoam here anymore —
they switched to make everything 
they use paper.”
“That’s good, isn’t it? I mean, I 
may not be one of the most envi- 
ronmentally-aware people, but I 
think it’s a good move.”
“It is. The only thing that could 
possibly be bad about it is that it 
is slightly more expensive than 
using styrofoam.”
“Well, hey, if this is going to 
protect our oceans, then I’m all 
for it.”
“Yeah. See, the cups even have 
a nice design on them — no more 
stripes in different colors. It seems 
symbolic that they put flowers on 
them.”
“Maybe they want to start a 
new campaign called ‘Save the 
Flowers.’ ”
“Why not? Anything’s possible.” 
“Would you donate to it?” 
“Sure, I like the cups. Don’t 
you?”
“Oh, yeah. I think these cups 
are absolutely the most beautiful 
ones I’ve ever seen.”
“Especially when you consider 
the fact that you can’t draw in 
them anymore.”
“Why? I draw better than you 
do.”
“Well, I think it’s kind of like 
defacing them,” I said, picking up 
my cup to examine it.
“Defacing them? What I do to 
these cups is art!”
“Well, apparently, we have dif­
ferent tastes about art.”
“I’ll say. You have no taste at 
all.”
“Oh, really?”
‘Yeah.”
He grabbed his cup to take a sip 
of soda, and the next thing I know, 
we are both covered with it. The 
lid had apparently popped off for 
the third time that day.
“Oh shit! I hate these cups! This 
always happens to me!” Jim 
yelled.
“I thought you said you liked 
the cups.”
“Well, it would be nice if they 
bought new lids to fit, too. These
lids make the cups hazardous!” 
‘You can’t get everything you 
want. Why don’t you put some­
thing in the suggestion box?” 
“No, I’ll live. Besides, if they 
change the lids, there will be 
another form of art for us to argue 
about.”
“Okay, forget it. Pretend I never 
said anything. Just don’t squeeze 
your cup.”
Susan Abrams is a freshman 
professional writing major.“Hey, wnat happened.' 1 used to using styroroam here anymore — Flowers. all. bought new lids to fit, too. These professional writing major.
CMU’s energy should be spent on education, not diversity
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 ; that the questions on the test just pilot Diversity course being de- portion of those resources on a “these are the two sides of the quately represented. This is ui
blatant, there has also been a mav he emnirical and that the veloneriftvHmnlementatim-nnthe nmirse that will t.nrn nnt. tn hp flrcnimpnt. ” fhp mnrlpmtnr nf flip Imp Af a rlomimrlinor r»rr»fo cci™
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 ;
blatant, there has also been a 
subtle intellectual reconditioning. 
It is essentially taboo to take 
certain viewpoints; to do so risks 
the vilification of the more shrill 
members of the campus commu­
nity, ever-ready with the epithets: 
racist, sexist, bigot. This is not 
merely reactionary babbling. For 
example, recently there has been 
debate about the applicability of 
the SAT and other standardized 
tests because they are “not fair” 
women and minorities (these 
groups have lower average scores 
Jnthe SAT than the ever-oppres- 
sive white males). Have you heard 
anyone taking an opposing view,
that the questions on the test just 
may be empirical and that the 
results are valid? Of course not. 
To do so would be political sui­
cide. And yet the results are there. 
Colleges continue to use the SAT. 
There must be at least some evi­
dence on the other side of this 
debate. But we never hear it. Who 
would dare to argue this point in 
the face of the storm-trooper tac­
tics of the so-called “open-minded” 
and ‘liberal” groups? Their faces 
would probably be postered 
around campus with swastikas 
next to them (again, not exag­
geration; this has already hap­
pened).
Now we learn that there is a
pilot Diversity course being de­
veloped for implementation in the 
future. All freshman will be re­
quired to take it. The idea that 
this course can be value-neutral 
is ludicrous. And yet, hardly any 
faculty seem to be questioning 
whether or not such a course 
should exist (opposition from 
students has been negated effec­
tively by telling them that they 
will not have to take the course, 
because it will only be for incom­
ing freshmen).
There is only a finite amount of 
time and resources that can be 
applied to the education of an 
individual at Carnegie Mellon. 
Can we really justify spending a
portion of those resources on a 
course that will turn out to be 
nothingmore than an indoctrina­
tion camp for left-wing ideology?
It is ridiculous to believe what 
the Diversity people will tell you 
—that the course will be neutral, 
that it will show both sides of the 
issues. How, exactly, will the 
teachers assure that this will 
happen? How will they guard 
against their own biases? What is 
to keep the course from becoming 
a rag-session on European cul­
ture?
Claiming that the course will 
present both sides will only serve 
to disguise the propaganda. What 
happens when in a context of
“these are the two sides of the 
argument,” the moderator of the 
discussion presents a weak, or 
watered-down version of the view­
point he or she disagrees with, 
thus skewing the response of the 
class and the seriousness with 
which the opposing viewpoint can 
be taken? What happens when 
each minority group on campus 
lobbies tohaveits agendaincluded 
in the class? Who will be the 
administrators who will be above 
politics in choosing the speakers, 
topics, and assignments?
And why present “Diverse” 
cultures anyway? To present al­
ternate cultures implies that the 
mainstream culture is being ade­
quately represented. This is un­
true. At a demanding, profession­
ally-oriented college like Carne­
gie Mellon, there is not enough 
time being spent studying any 
high culture — Western or non- 
Western. Favoring some cultures 
over others in a “Diversity” course 
only serves to pick the “culture du 
jour,” and create a discussion 
either too insipid and trivial to 
warrant the waste of time and 
resources, or too biased to be 
acceptable in a system of aca­
demic freedom.
Michael Drout is a senior Eng­
lish major. 60 Coarse is a grade of 
sandpaper.
HELPv fCRITICALTIMES
mWc msel.8Aily 5 
Creb8lr g8M8Asa68lr 
m8lr8u
268-2922
7nAJHil fersuily
268-2922
m(1fvmf )irr.2euyP
782-4023
Creb8lr t8nArP C8uMi,8
268-2157
ovmmtcC
268-7070
guey msll8,risl
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30am-5:00pm
For after hours emergencies when the office is closed, call the center.
An answering service operator will reach a counselor on call.
Calculus, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Writing, Computing 
Sunday - Thursday 8:00 - 11:00 pm (see Tartan ad)
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and 
supportive listening.
Hours: Mon, Tue, Thu, Fri— 8:30 am-5:00 pm 
Wed—9:30 am-6:30 pm 
For after hours emergencies, call Campus Police (x2323) 
for transport to hospital.
Student organization which promotes substance abuse prevention.
Meetings are held on Mondays, 6:00-7:30 pm
Room 121, Margaret Morrison, and are open to all students
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline, 5:00-9:00 pm
Counseling and Student Development Center, a Division of Student Affairs 
t*.
WORRLD
COLLEGE
NEWS?AT
150 West 85th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10024 
212-580-0210 
800-292-3040
MANNES.
Artistry & Community
At Mamies they go together. The skills, understanding and 
originality of artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and 
supportive community. HHMHH That’s why Mannes graduates succeed.
1990 AUDITIONS
New York City: January 8; March 7. 8. 9. 10; May 23. 24. 25: August 30, 31.
MAJOR STUDIES in all orchestral instruments, piano, organ, voice and opera, guitar, historical performance, composition, theory 
and conducting. PROGRAMS OF STUDY: Master of Music. Post-Cradualc Diploma. Bachelor of Music. Bachelor of Science. 
Diploma. Artist's Diploma. SCHOLARSHIPS awarded in all majors. DORMITORY rooms are available.
Call 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210 for application, audition appointment anti additional information about the College.

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
“Fax” is foremost word of the ’90s
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
The most important new word 
in the English language is fax. It 
is a method of sending paper by 
telephone.
For example, if I want to shoot 
you a clipping from this newspa­
per, I put it into my fax machine 
and it is transmitted to your fax 
machine in seconds.
Because the United States 
shuffles more paper than any 
other country on the planet, the 
fax machine has changed the way 
we deal with problems.
This is all you hear in offices 
these days: “Will you fax me that 
report? ... I’ll fax you my objec­
tions and then you fax everything 
to the client in San Francisco.”
The trouble with faxing papers 
is that people judge how hard you 
are working by the amount of 
faxing that you do. In most of­
fices, those who only fax every 
hour are thought to be less pro­
ductive than those who fax every 
15 minutes.
John O’Connor is one of the 
great faxers of Washington. He
Art Buchwald
has a fax in the office, one at 
home, and one in his car. During 
his lunch hour he thinks nothing 
of faxing the U.S. budget to a 
friend in Singapore.
“You were an early faxer before 
it became popular. Does it dis­
courage you that everybody is 
doing it now?” I asked him.
“The more the merrier,” he 
replied. “Don’tforget,ittakestwo 
to fax. Excuse me, I have to fax an 
anniversary card to my wife.” 
“Does she mind getting her 
anniversary greetings by fax 
machine?”
“Why should she? It’s on her 
desk right away.”
“Is there a knack to faxing?” 
“Like everything else, there are 
good faxers and bad ones. A good 
faxer knows exactly howtoinsert 
the paper so that the print comes
out nice and clean at the other 
end. Some people are bom faxers 
—lawyers, for example. They can 
service two clients on two differ­
ent telephone lines at the same 
time, and charge them both the 
full fee. Doctors are starting to 
fax throat cultures to each other, 
and people are even sending love 
letters on the machine.”
“Why?”
“When you’re in love you want 
the whole Bell system to know it.” 
“Do some people in your office 
fax more than others?”
“Damn right they do, and it’s 
costing us a bundle. There is a 
guy here who faxes all the base­
ball scores to his bookie in Las 
Vegas. We have a woman who 
transmits Ann Landers’ column 
to everyone in her aerobics class. 
We’re looking at an electronic 
revolution that will change our 
lives. Today we’re faxing paper— 
someday we could be faxing 
people.”
“You mean we’ll be sending 
people by telephone?”
“It’s well within the realm of 
possibility. The world is getting 
smaller thanks to the fax ma­
chine. First we communicated by 
Morse code, then by voice, and 
now by paper. Tomorrow we may 
place our kids in fax machines 
and send them to camp.”
All the time O’Connor was talk­
ing to me he was inserting memo­
randa into one machine and rip­
ping off messages from the other 
one.
“The trick,” he said, “is to fax 
more outgoing material than you 
take in.”
“How do you do that?” I wanted 
to know.
“Fax everybody. My greatest 
moment as a faxer was when I 
sent an entire manuscript to a 
publisher I had never met. I tied 
up his line for nine hours because 
there was no way he could turn 
his machine off.”
Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
columnist for the Los Angeles 
Times.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP
Skinheads are victims of ignorance
I’m becoming increasingly 
annoyed at the ignorance of 
people. Not that it is their fault. I 
commonly mention things that 
I’m wrong about. Misinformation 
is terrible. But it’s just that when 
I know something and someone 
makes some uneducated pre­
sumption, it ticks me off. One 
such thing occurred the other day.
My friend and I were walking 
down the street and some skin­
head walked by. Once out of ear­
shot, my friend said “I hate skin­
heads.” Astonished, I asked why. 
His reply: “Fucking Nazis. I hate 
Nazis and what they stand for.”
Okay, I could deal with hating 
Nazis. I don’t care forthem, groups 
like them (the KKK comes to 
mind), or what they stand for.
Rich Robinson
But hating skinheads is another 
matter.
All skinheads are not Nazis, 
just as all Nazis are not skin­
heads. If a group of yuppies be­
came Nazis, would all yuppies be 
Nazis? No.
Skinheads, for the most part, 
belong to a larger group of 
“hardcores”, “thrashers”, or 
“punks" (the names go on). On the 
whole, my experience has been 
that skinheads and punks don’t 
like Nazis. Nazis usually ruin gigs 
and are the cause of a lot of prob­
lems at underground shows. I’ve 
been at quite a few shows at City 
Gardens (a club in Trenton, NJ) 
where Nazis have started fights. 
It’s not fun. I’ve gotten some nice 
cuts and bruises just trying to 
keep away from the main action.
I suppose the reason I’m sensi­
tive to this issue is two-fold. First, 
I was in the “punk scene” for a 
short period. Second, a bunch of 
my friends from Jersey are skin­
heads and punks. Some are in 
bands, some just like the scene. 
All of them are anti-Nazi. I was 
with them all, driving about in a 
van this past summer. The inside 
of the vehicle was covered with 
flyers. Anotable one pictured this 
huge skinhead smashing a Nazi. 
Blood and body parts were all
Some baaaaaaad news for frats
One of the hardest things fresh­
man orientation counselors do 
each year is attempt to convince 
freshmen that the Greek system 
is not like what they saw in Ani­
mal House.
Next year, they’ll have to qual­
ify that statement to exclude the 
University of Washington.
Until last month, both Wash­
ington and Carnegie Mellon had 
chapters of the fraternity Theta 
Xi. Now our chapter has one less 
road-trip option.
On January 12, the city of Se­
attle seized two sheep from Theta 
Xi’s house. According to police 
reports, the house’s windows were 
covered with newspaper and a 
voice was heard yelling, “You 
fucking pledges, you’ll do what I 
tell you to do! Come on, ram it up 
your asses, you fucking pledges! 
You pieces of shit!”
On the basement’s door was a 
sign reading, “Nobody allowed 
except actives, pledges with per­
mission, and cloven-hooved ani­
mals.” And inside were several 
pledges, dressed in their under­
wear, bodies smeared with Crisco 
and peanut butter. There were 
also two sheep.
The house’s president claims 
that they had a valid reason for 
having the sheep at the house. 
“We were going to teach our 
pledges how to ‘spin wool.’” And
Inquiring Minds
Stewart Levine
wouldn’t you know it, the sheep 
were found duringTheta Xi’s “Hell 
Week.”
Now, those pledges aren’tTheta 
Xi brothers. Washington’s intra- 
fratemity council suspended the 
house and then TX’s national took 
their charter away.
The University of Washington’s 
student newspaper, The Daily, 
jumped all over the story. The 
sheep made the front page five of 
the next nine issues and domi­
nated its letters section. When 
sick things happen, college stu­
dents are great at turning them 
into sick jokes, and The Daily ran 
as many as it got.
You see, the newspaper had 
received the ultimate gift, a de­
veloping story that everyone on 
campus wanted to read about. 
Whether it was tasteful did not 
matter — neither were the Rob 
Lowe sex tapes when they first 
came out. Many journalists don’t 
judge heavily the merits of a story 
when it’s guaranteed to get read­
ers.
We at The Tartan first learned 
about the incident in a Carnegie 
Mellon-typical way, through the
Arpanet bulletin boards on An­
drew. The first time any of us on 
the staff read the account, we 
laughed, just like you probably 
did at the start of this column. 
Unfortunately, the story isn’t 
funny.
Hazing is dangerous. That’s 
why it’s illegal in Pennsylvania 
and why the 14 fraternities and 
five sororities here take steps to 
prevent such incidents from hap­
pening here.
During my freshman year my 
floor had several pledges, and they 
all went through their own ver­
sions of “Hell Week.” The worst 
story I had heard about was the 
acquisition of a length of railroad 
rail from Panther Hollow. The 
pledges were all sore for a few 
days from carrying it back, but 
that was it.
Is there a moral to this story? 
Probably several. First and fore­
most, another blanket statement 
against hazing should be made. 
Second, this should make us 
wonder anew about that phrase 
“.. .where men are men and sheep 
are nervous,” and try to figure out 
where it truly applies.
Stewart Levine is a second year 
masters student in GSIA. He has 
not been on the same side of a 
petting zoo fence as a sheep in over 
ten years.
over the place. In big, bold letters, 
it read, “Skinheads UNITE to 
smash racism.”
This is not to say that Skin­
heads aren’t prejudiced. Every­
one is. It’s a basic fact. But there 
is a long way between prejudice 
and Naziism.
There is one other myth I would 
like to dispel, while I am on the 
subject. Punks are not all strung- 
out drug addicts. Most of them 
aren’t. If you need proof, there is 
a “straightedge” movement that 
is rather strong. Straightedge 
means that you don’t do drugs or 
drink. Some take it to the point 
where smoking is off-limits.
But skinheads are not Nazis. 
Hell, a black skinhead once helped 
me get out of a pit that was be­
coming too rough. The punk rock 
movement is not a bunch of 
drugged-out mindless idiots run­
ning around causing hell.
Try listening to some of the 
music, at least, before denounc­
ing it. Start easy with The Ra- 
mones or the Dead Kennedys. 
Then go on to some Dickies, 
DieHard, Pagan Babies, D.R.I., 
Red Hot Chili Peppers, or Circle 
Jerks.
By the way, I listen to every­
thing: Bach, Billy Joel, U2, dance, 
rap, rock, heavy metal, thrash, 
and hardcore.
I do not like Bon Jovi.
Rich Robinson is a sophomore 
IM major.
Here it is, folks!!! Just what you've all been waiting for—a chance 
to get your opinion published in an award-winning newspaper!!
ByFAR OyNW. L
The Tartan's monthly reader opinion page.
That's right a whole PACE dedicated solely to printing YOUR 
opinion. And it appears EVERY month!!
This month's topic is:
The War on Drugs
How do you feel about it? What should be done? Who should be- 
doing it? How should it be done? Should Bush be castrated? Should - 
Quayle be roasted? Or are they doing a peachy job? ¦
The Rules:
1) We pick the topic (if you don’t like it, don't write...). _
2) You write your opinion.
3) You send what you have written to us by 5 pm Friday,. 
February 23.
Remember, if you don't send us something, you have no right to 
gripe.
Send submissions to:
OPEN FORUM 
The Tartan 
Skibo 50
or copy it to the OPEN FORUM Drop Folder on The Tartan's new 
Appleshare server, in the Skibo zone.
ORIGINS OF THE ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT
SHABBAT SERVICES, DINNER, AND PROGRAM WITH 
DAPHNE TSIMHONI 
THE 1990 ISRAELI SCHOLAR-IN-RESIDENCE
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 16 
5:30 PM 
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL 
160 NORTH CRAIG STREET 
COST $4.50 FOR MEMBERS, $5.50 FOR NONMEMBERS 
FOR MORE INFO OR TO RSVP CALL 621-8875
DR. TSIMHONI IS A LECTURER AND RESEARCHER AT 
BEN GURION UNIVERSITY RESEARCH CENTER AND IS A 
FACULTY MEMBER OF THE HISTORY DEPARTMENT
i) i)
Ck8,Penl Lseu68r
709 Bellefonte Street, Shadyside
LUNCH BUFFET $4.99 all you can eat
12 noon - 2:00 pm Mon. - Fri.
Sunday 4:30-10 
Monday-Thursday 11:30-10 
Friday & Saturday 11:30-l 1 
683-1763
We deliver: Squirrel Hill, Oakland, Shadyside area, Min. $20 6 pm - 10 pm
0e.r 7P8l Dse fPseyPr xr 7n. 
CnT8 fs Ls (er.ib8BBB
Anti-semitism strikes again.
ms68 P8nu nlb anuri,ianr8 il n A8,reu8Nbi.,e..isl 
4irP g8lli. C8n6sl_ n aus6il8lr An4S8u nlb aPiAnlrPusai.r 
Tus6 mA8M8Anlb_ sl 78bl8.bnS_ I82uenuS R/ 
nr ’hX3 il onJ8u tnAA RRzmB
Casl.su8b 2S tiAA8A_ mPn2nb_ fnynu_ nlb 
rP8 mWc nlb )irr ,Pnar8u. sT vp)i Tunr8ulirSB
Isu 6su8 ilTsu6nrisl ,nAA 0nl nr Rq;H!’!;B

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
C4i668u. rnJ8 sl LusM8 mirS_ onAb4il 
7nAAn,8 il 488J8lb bse2A8HbenA 688r
SPORTSPEAK
by Josh Ruben
ia\\y sports mag 
ests waters
There has been a monumental 
elopment in the realm of 
orts publications. Yes fans, 
fie National has arrived.
Finally, a daily sports news- 
,per covering baseball, basket- 
ill, hockey, and football, as ¡11 as the more obscure ath- 
¡tic diversions. By God, this is 
ihat every red-blooded Ameri- 
has wanted and needed. Or 
tit?
The success of any specialized 
iblication such as The Na­
nai is determined by the 
¦esence, and in this case 
latiability, of an audience, 
ince The Sporting News begat 
torts Illustrated begat Sport 
at Inside Sport, and since 
iery local newspaper in the 
mntry has a sports section, we 
bould be getting enough, 
ight?
But, the publishers of The Na- 
onal figure that if a daily na- 
onal newspaper like USA To- 
ay can make it in cities that 
lready have as many as four 
ical papers, a newspaper 
caled down to focus on sports 
hould also have a fighting 
nance.
We are a generation in which 
he death of the discotheque has 
iven rise to the “sports bar.”
Ve seem to be starving for more 
stion, more facts, and more 
tones from sports. Maybe we 
re insatiable when it comes to 
ports.
But, the success of USA 
Way — McNews — has 
imonstrated that people are 
iterested in slick graphics and 
} pretty front page, not in-depth 
lalysis and coverage of major 
'ents. The publishers of The 
Jational could easily follow 
it. After all, the trend in 
irts coverage has been 
wards number crunching. A 
¡ood sports story is determined 
towadays by how many stats 
|re cited. The more unique and 
Iried the statistics, the better 
he coverage.
Fortunately, The National 
oes not look like it is destined 
be the next Egg McMuffin of 
rofessional journalism. The 
iper recently went on a highly 
blicized “Search and Steal” 
lission in which they hired 
>me of the country’s top sports 
iters away from local papers. 
e National offered more 
»ney to these writers, and in 
&me cases, a lot more. The 
aper would not have spent all 
hat time and money if it were •imply going to be nothing more 
ian a stat sheet — a daily 
ports racing form.
On the contrary, The National 
not just playing up to the 
itch-all sports fan, the publish- 
rs are gearing their publication 
the fan who is interested in 
^mething more than numbers 
¦d stats. With all of the great 
"iters they have lined their 
tees with, The National looks 
be the salvation for the sports 
ln with a brain, 
love to read good columnists 
‘d stories that are written by 
pie who enjoy the games 
'°ut which they are writing. 
'Parently, The National feels 
‘t there is still room in a 
irket seemingly glutted by 
lrts publications. But this is 
a “copy-cat” magazine. Fans 
per get ready to be treated as 
diligent and literate, for a
Contributing Editor Josh 
Ûen is a senior majoring in 
°fessional writing.
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan swimmers beat 
three out of four opponents in a 
double-dual meet Saturday 
against Baldwin Wallace and 
Grove City. The women de­
feated both of their opponents 
and the men lost a very close 
match to Grove City.
The women defeated Grove 
City relatively easily (78-35) 
but were tied with Baldwin 
Wallace heading into the last 
event, the 40-meter freestyle 
relay. The race was very close 
until the final leg, when senior 
Francesca Crannell opened up 
a the final lead and finished of 
the race to obtain a 60-53 team 
win over Baldwin Wallace.
The men’s team had its easy
x.oA, FIcAe FI.64D.6 C,.cs,C NoCcIL
Doi W,oC ,e ,o4 C,.cs,C t.I u.4C .t 
C,e 4eo4.6 — C,84 Ceou MeIt.IueD 
Wevv(
meet against Baldwin Wallace, 
winning 90-23. Grove City, how­
ever, was a different story. In the 
waning moments of the contest, 
the men had to place second and 
third in diving, second and third 
in the 200-meter breaststroke 
and win the 400-meter freestyle 
relay to beat Grove City. The Tar­
tans won the relay and placed 
second and third in diving but fell 
short in the breaststroke, where
they placed second and fourth. 
The final score was Grove City, 58 
to Carnegie Mellon’s 55.
Coach Bruce Bronsdon thought 
Saturday what he has thought for 
most of the season — this team 
performed well. Baldwin 
Wallace’s performance was a supr- 
ise to Bronsdon, commenting the 
women’s team “actually had a 
lineup that was not are starting 
,slrile8b sl any8 /R
xylnrie. Cn.6irnNfnurnl v..i.rnlr )Psrs pbirsu 
0elisu 08TT msu.8rri .4i6. 2err8uTAS Tsu rP8 fnurnl.B
Ski team endures poor conditions to have fun, ski well
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Contributing Editor
Dedication. Obsession. Insan­
ity. There must be somethingthat 
keeps the Carnegie Mellon ski 
team competing. Poor skiing con­
ditions and miserable weather, 
both increasing the risk of injury, 
have prevailed in the team’s last 
two race weekends.
“In spite of everything, we still 
have a good time,” said men’s cap­
tain, junior Mike Barmada.
Besides having fun, the team 
has made a good showing in its 
first competitive season. The 
women have beaten the other 
Pittsburgh schools of Pitt and 
Duquesne, making them number 
one in the city.
February 3rd and 4th saw a 
two-day giant slalom at Seven 
Springs in Champion, Penn. As 
usual, the weather was less than
0elisu WiJ8 onu6nbn y8r. u8nbS rs
desirable, with rain, fog, and wet 
snow. The unfavorable conditions 
resulted in the Carnegie Mellon 
skiers falling more than any oth- 
erteam in the competition.
“We win wipeouts,” said senior
,seur8.S 0n6i8 mPui.rl8u 
un,8 4irP rP8 mWc .Ji r8n6B
Dan Hushon at the end of the 
weekend.
In Saturday’s overall standings, 
the CMU women’s team placed 
seven out of 13. Bucknell, Perm 
State and University of Pennsyl­
vania were first, second, and third, 
respectively.
The racers ran two courses, each 
of giant slalom. Sophomore Adele 
Banning was ranked 29 out of 48 
racers, with times of 46:56 and 
45:25. Sophomore Wendy Ger- 
berth was close behind in the 
number 32 spot with times of 54:03 
and 48:93. Senior women’s cap­
tain Karyn Silva was ranked at 
35. In her second run, Silva was 
the first of the CMU wipeouts in 
the day, with times of 47:83 and 
59:45. Junior Jamie Christner 
rounded out the team’s rankings, 
at 37, with times of 63:24 and 
68:74.
The men took the 10th spot 
overall, out of 14 teams. Penn 
State, Bucknell, and University 
of Pennsylvania again were in 
the top three. Heading the men 
was Barmada, with times of 35:19 
and 39:08 — he was ranked 29th
out of 77 racers. Sophomore Tom 
Claugus was next, in the number 
36 spot with times of 40:22 and 
42:24. The other two men wre 
unranked due to not finishing the 
course. Hushon had a time of 34:9 
in his first race, but lost a ski in a 
fall during his second race. Fresh­
man Coates Carter did not finish 
his first race because of a wipeout.
Sunday’s course was a fater 
giant slalom with gates placed 
farther apart, allowing for gre- 
taer speed. Freezing rain that 
changed to snow created ice in the 
lower gates.
Again, the women were seventh 
overall out of ten teams. Buck­
nell, Penn State and University 
of Pennsylvania were the top 
three. For the women, Banning 
was 27 out of 35 racers with times 
of 41:78 and 46:99. She was the 
only CMU racer who did not fall.
,slrile8b sl any8 /X
Hockey struggles with weekend losses; playoffs look dimmer
By MARK ROBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU hockey team ex­
tended its winless streak to three 
last weekend as it was shut out by 
West Virginia University in 
Morgantown on Saturday and lost 
to IUP at home on Sunday. The 
Ice Tartans have not yet won at 
home this semester.
Injuries still remain the team’s 
biggest foe as yet another player 
was added to the injured reserve 
list. In Sunday’s game, Mike 
Gallin broke his collarbone in two 
places during an open-ice colli­
sion withlUP’s Rob Regilia. Gallin 
will be the seventh Ice Tartan 
this season to be sidelined with a 
broken bone.
To help pick up the slack defen­
sively, PhD student Jim Larsen 
has come out of retirement to once 
again play for the Ice Tartans. 
Larsen was a member of the 86-8 7 
and 87-88 squads that both ad­
vanced to the West Perm College 
Hockey Association (WPCHA) 
championships.
In Sunday’s action, the Ice 
Tartans faced IUP, a team they 
had already beaten twice this 
season. The first meeting was a 
rout as the Tartans skated to a 
9—3 victory. The second contest 
was closely fought as the Tartans 
squeaked out a 4—3 win. Sunday’s 
game was a different matter, 
however, as IUP pasted the Tar­
tans, 9-2.
The IUP Apaches scored three 
goals each period as they skated 
to an easy victory. IUP took 43
,seur8.S WnuJ Es2.sl 
mWc Ps,J8S i. nlUise. Tsu n 7)mtv aAnSsTT naa8nunl,8B
shots on CMU goalie John Kerber 
while CMU could only muster 18 
shots. In the second period alone, 
the Apaches took 19 shots.
“They were just a little better 
than we were in every respect,”
commented sophomore Jan-Marc 
Featherston. “They outskatedus, 
outshot us, and beat us to the 
loose pucks. Our goaltending was 
also off. All of those factors opened 
the door to a blowout.”
The only highlights of the game 
were grad student Dick Hanson’s 
slapshot that beat Apache goalie 
Fen Deming with 11:25 left in the 
second period and sophomore Ed 
Kilduff s slapshot that found the 
back of the net with 3:55 remain­
ing in the third period.
The game ended in a brawl that 
CMU won hands down. CMU 
junior Craig Palli and IUP’s 
Regilia squared off deep inside 
IUP’s end during a CMU power 
play. Todd Henderson then got 
involved and took on two IUP 
players at once. When Kilduff was 
hit from behind with a cheap shot, 
Larsen decided to step in and clean 
house. Larsen dropped one IUP 
player with three quick punches, 
then squared off with another.
,slrile8b sl any8 /X
W8l run6aA8b 2S mPi,nys nlb 
7n.Pilyrsld .ilJ As48u il cvv
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
ST. LOUIS—The nightmare that has 
been the men’s basketball season contin­
ues to get worse.
A pair of blowouts on the road dropped 
the team’s record to 3-16,1-12 in the 
University Athletic Association. Losses 
of 92-69 to Chicago and 91-57 to Wash­
ington University marked the eighth and 
ninth times that Carnegie Mellon has 
given up 90 or more points in a game.
“We didn’t play,” said Head Coach Larry 
Anderson.
The Tartans’ inability to defense the 
three-point shot was a major factor in 
both losses. Chicago hitsix of 14 long- 
range bombs andWashingtonnailednine 
of 16 against Carnegie Mellon.
And a new cause for concern, shooting 
from the field has developed. In both 
games, the team shot below 40 percent 
from the floor, suffering long scoring
droughts.
The problems started early in Chi­
cago. The Maroons, behind the steady 
shooting of guard Matt Krapf steadily 
built a lead. The Tartans, accustomed 
to playing well in the first half, found 
themselves on the short end of a 43-29 
score at the end of the first half.
Things did not get better in the sec­
ond half. Carnegie Mellon continued 
its cold shooting and could not get any 
closer than 11 points. The backcourt of 
Chris Dobbs, Phil Bronner, and Todd 
Jenkins which normally provides 25 to 
30 points a game shot a collective five of 
24 for 13 points.
The few bright spots were the scoring 
of Harvey Beckham who had a season- 
high 20 points and Chris Luckett who 
added 17 points. Sophomore Jeff 
Bleacher had career highs of 10 points 
and seven rebounds in the game.
The problems intensified against 
,slrile8b sl any8 /X
7s68l As.8 ,ue,inA cvv yn68.d 
b8T8nr vAA8yP8lS 8nuAS il 488J
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
ST. LOUIS—It was a stretch of three 
games that loomed over the Tartans. “I 
knew this week was crucial with Al­
legheny, Chicago, and Wash U.,” said 
Head Coach Gerri Seidl.
The team’s season had come down to 
its performance on the road against three 
tough opponents. Two wins out of three 
or a sweep meant a likely return to the 
NCAA playoffs. Anything less and the 
Tartans would be forced to settle for 
their second straight President’s Ath­
letic Conference title and watching the 
NCAAs at home.
The week started according to plan 
with a 60-57 victory in Meadville over 
Allegheny. Senior co-captain Lisa Smith 
led the charge against the Gators with 21 
points and sophomore center Amy 
Buxbaum contributed 11 points and 11 
rebounds.
However, problems developed in Chi­
cago. The Maroons entered the game in 
second place in the University Athletic 
Association and ranked fourth in the 
Central region. After missing the play­
offs last season, Chicago was eager to 
return to postseason play.
An extremely sloppy first half held 
back both teams. The Tartans only shot 
29 percent from the floor. Chicago per­
formed little better, managing 37 per­
cent. The Maroons managed a run late 
in the first half to take a 29-24 half time 
lead.
The second half, though, spelled dis­
aster. Turnovers at the rate of nearly 
one a minute limited the team’s chances 
to shoot as Chicago pulled ahead. The 
shooting of Kristin Maschka, Tina Klaw- 
inski, and Catherine Fitzgerald buried 
Carnegie Mellon.
The Tartans only managed to sink 
seven shots in the second half as Chi- 
,slrile8b sl any8 /X

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
*If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, 
Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 274 2 5. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes 
may be made after purchase. Scats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available 
between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00)'and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and 
other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call 1-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
d8l848.6 IoAe4 86 0f7 A.6C86ce(((Lemieux streak can’t boost Penguins to top of Patrick Division
By MICHAEL D. C. DROUT
Tartan Staffwriter
All in the Family. By scoring 
his 50th goal of the season on 
Wednesday, Brett Hull of the St. 
Louis Blues made himself and 
his father Bobby Hull the first 
father/son pair to score fifty goals 
in a season.
Brett is on a pace to score more 
than seventy goals (a feat his 
father never accomplished) and 
is producing an even higher per­
centage of his team’s goals than 
Pat Lafontaine. Hull will be a 
free agent without compensation 
next year, raising the question of 
a bidding war to sign him.
There is gossip, however, that 
since this is the only year that 
Hull has performed at this stel­
lar level, that he may not be able 
to get the money he wants.
It should be interesting to see 
who gets him: the Rangers, 
Flyers, and Whalers reportedly 
have lots of money to invest in 
their teams, while Bruce McNall
— the George Steinbrenner of
hockey — is probably not averse 
to spending a little more.
Lemieux streak continues. 
Mario Lemieux’s point-scoring 
streakis at45 games. Even though 
the Penguin’s captain has been 
beset by debilitating back pain 
that may require surgery in the 
off-season, he has managed to 
continue scoring. The Penguins, 
however, still cannot put a win­
ning streak together and head for 
the top of the free-for-all Patrick 
Division.
Islanders hang on to first 
place. The New York Islanders 
give no signs of folding up as the 
season moves towards the home 
stretch. Even though LaFontaine 
has been less visible of late, other 
members of the team have dug 
down deep to produce results.
Veteran Don Maloney had two 
goals against the Devils in an 
important tie, and Mark Fitzpa­
trick has been stellar in goal — 
making a seemingly impossible 
save on the Penguins’ Bob Errey 
to keep the Islanders in a game 
that they eventually won.
It seems as if the Islanders will 
not fold, and their youth, work 
ethic, and team play just may 
take them out of the division — 
though probably only to be eaten 
alive by the Adams Division win­
ner.
Makarov on pace for Calder.
Despite heat from Calgary’s 
sportswriters, Soviet Sergei 
Makarov continues to play on a 
pace that should make him the 
oldest player ever to win the 
Calder Trophy for the NHL’s lead­
ing rookie.
Makarov leads the Flames in 
assists (42) and plus/minus (+24) 
andis tied with Joey Nieuwendyk 
for the lead in points (58). If 
Makarov does not win the Calder, 
it will be due to prejudice by 
sportswriters or to St. Louis’ Rod 
Brind’Amour having a fantastic 
final third of the season.
TradeRumors.TheNewJersey 
Devils may trade speedy but shot- 
less defenseman Reijo Ruot- 
salainen to either the L. A. Kings 
or the Edmonton Oilers for goons 
Jay Miller or Dave Brown. The
Devils, feeling the effects of 
strongman David Male/s injury, 
want some toughness.
Consideringthe retaliation that 
Soviet Defenseman Viacheslav 
Fetisov may encounter when the 
Devils play Toronto Saturday 
(Fetisov’s check of Wendel Clark 
in the two teams last meeting 
injured the Toronto winger’sknee, 
ending his season), they mayneed 
to make the trade soon.
There is also speculation that 
the Rangers will trade goalie John 
Vanbiesbrouck for some size. 
Mentioned in trades for Beezer 
have been Sergio Momesso of the 
St. Louis Blues plus a draft pick, 
or Detroit’s Gerard Gallant.
The Red Wings, even though 
desperate for a goalie (Glen 
Hanlon, while he plays hard, is 
only a backup goalie at best) say 
they will not trade Gallant. If 
they continue to remain one spot 
short of a playoff berth, they may 
change their minds.
Vancouver is also rumored to 
be shopping veteran Paul Rien- 
hardt around. The Canucks may
make some big trades as soon as 
they are mathematically elimi­
nated from the playoffs. Manage­
ment has not ruled out a complete 
reconstruction of the team and
considering how the Canuck 
have played, no one — except 
perhaps goalie Kirk MacLean 
should feel secure.
1tG Crnlbily.
(as of 2/10)
7vGpC m(1IpEp1mp
)vfExm9 gxFxCx(17GfvgvWC gxFxCx(17G T
NY Islanders27246Boston3418 5
New Jersey25246Buffalo3219 6
NY Rangers232310Montreal2922 6
Pittsburgh24274Hartford2525 6
Washington24304Quebec940 6
Philadelphia22268
mvW)opGG m(1IpEp1mp
1(EExC gxFxCx(17GfCWDftp gxFxCx(17G fChicago30204Edmonton2719 11Toronto29252Calgary2716 13
St. Louis25228Winnipeg2623 7
Minnesota24303Los Angeles2425 6
Detroit19306Vancouver1732 9
C4i668u. AssJ nP8nb rs )vm_ cvv ,Pn6aisl.Pia nTr8u beni 688r nr LusM8 mirS
continued from page 11
line up.” Once this was realized 
Bronsdon made the necessary 
changes to enable the women to 
win the meet.
No drastic changes by Bronsdon 
could have helped the men win, 
because the double-dual struc­
ture of the meet hurt them too 
much. The men’s depth is their 
true strength but it could not be 
used since the number of swim­
mers per event was limited.
Both Bronsdon and senior co­
captain Pat Hensler agree that 
the men’s team could have won 
the meet against Grove City if it 
had not been a double-dual. Hen­
sler is confident that the men can 
beat Grove City at the Presidents’ 
Athletic Conference [PAC] Cham­
pionships February 22-24 since, 
“They had their whole team.”
When asked how the teams
would do in the championship 
meets, Hensler said the women 
should win the PAC with ease, 
and while the men will have a 
tougher time, they still have a 
good chance to win, “barring any 
accidents....”
In the University Athletic As­
sociation [UAA] Championships, 
Wednesday through Friday, the 
men will finish “at worst fourth, 
at best third ... [The women will
finish] sixth or seventh because 
of the amount we have. You can 
only swim seven events...,” said 
Hensler.
Senior women’s co-captain Tif­
fany Pickering agreed with Hen­
sler and added, “I think we’re 
going to place a lot better than 
last year... we have more depth,” 
she said. “We’re going to be 
peaked.”
The UAA will test both teams,
unlike the PAC, where the women 
are predicted to win and the men 
have a good chance to win. One 
thing that will help the two squads 
in these larger meets is their di­
vers. Senior Ward Eldred, co-cap- 
tain of the team and diver, said, 
“Basically we’re a group of insane 
people, who jump high up in the 
air and attempt to land as close as 
possible to a big piece of metal.” 
CMUs four divers — juniors
Amy Blake, Allison Culbertson, 
and Hudson Tiffany and Eldred
— must practice at Pitt from 
8:30 pm to 10 pm because CMlPs 
pool has no diving boards. This 
makes it hard to keep divers, yet 
every diver is very important 
Eldred pointed out that the first 12 places for diving in large meet? 
win points. Diving won 50 points 
in a championship meet for the 
team last year.
Expand
your
horizons...
Travel
with
Tartan
sports.
The Tartans travel 
throughout the country in 
University Athletic Associa­
tion competition, to play 
other Division III schools in 
Chicago, St. Louis, Cleve­
land, Atlanta, Cambridge, 
Boston, and New York City 
as well as several exotic 
locations throughout Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, and West 
Virginia, in Presidents' 
Athletic Conference competi­
tion. As a Tartan sports staff 
writer, you could have the 
opportunity to travel with 
the team and get firsthand 
coverage of the athletics, as 
well as get to know some 
great American cities.
Tartan 
Sports 
Staff 
meetings: 
Tuesdays 
4:30pm 
In Skibo 
50.
Or call Katie Culbertson 
or Jason McDonald at 
The Tartan, x2111.THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER.
APPLY TODAY
1-800-942-AMEX @I TRAVEL ^ _
¡¡SiSE ^ ^ " ' * NORTHWEST,SERV1CES AIRLINES
Only for student American Express*
Apply for the American Express® Card. 
Then get ready to take off. In search of 
adventure, action-or just simply to escape.
American Express and Northwest 
Airlines have arranged these extraordinary 
travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively 
for student Cardmembers:
¦ CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE 
OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS—tO many
of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­
uous United States served by Northwest. 
Each certificate is good for a six-month 
period, and they will arrive within six 
•weeks after you receive the Card. Current 
Cardmembers will automatically receive 
their $118 certificates by March 15,1990 
provided they are still full time students!*
¦ 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT—with
your own personalized discount card, valid 
through January 1991 on all Northwest and 
Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount 
is not applicable to the $118 student 
certificates and other certificates, 
promotional or special status airfares.)
¦ 2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL—
when you enroll in Northwest’s WorldPerks® 
Free Travel Program.
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER 
IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. 
Just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942- 
AMEX, and talk to us. We’ll take your 
application and begin to process it 
immediately. (If you have your banking 
information handy, like your account 
number and bank address, it will help
Cardmembers.
speed the process.)
Keep in mind that our Automatic 
Acceptance Program makes it easier for 
you to become a Cardmember now, as a 
student, than it will ever be again.
And remember that as a Cardmem­
ber you’ll enjoy all the exceptional benefits 
and personal service you would expect from 
American Express.
So don’t miss out on a world of great 
experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for 
the Card. And start packing!
Membership Has Its Privileges®

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 199013
7s68l As.8 r4s ser sT rPu88 il i6asurnlr 488J
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 //
cago rolled to a 65-46 victory. 
Senior co-captain Donna 
Spicuzza was the lone Tartan 
to score in double figures with11 points.
“That was our worst game of 
theseason. Mentally we weren’t 
there,” said Seidl.
The sluggishness continued 
in the opening moments of the 
game against sixth-ranked 
Washington University. The 
Bears had built a 20-1 record 
with a tenacious defense that 
confounded Carnegie Mellon 
early.
The Tartans would only 
manage a Heather O’Donnell 
free throw duringthe first seven 
minutes of play.
The Tartans, however, were 
not out of the game. Washing­
ton was tired from a grueling 
game Friday against Johns 
Hopkins and could only take an 8-1 lead.
The rest of the half belonged 
to CMU. A tenacious full court 
press held the Bear scoring 
machine at bay as the Tartans 
started hitting baskets. An 
eight-point run, capped by three 
straight jumpers from Spicuzza 
. gave the Tartans their firstlead.
CMU continued applying the 
pressure. A 15-foot jumper by 
O’Donnell at the buzzer gave 
the Tartans a 24-19 halftime 
lead. It was the first time this 
season that the Washington 
Bears trailed another Division
HI opponent at home all year.
At the start of the second half, 
the Tartans continued their de­
fensive brilliance. They held the 
Bears scoreless over the first five 
minutes and built their lead, 
29-19.
While CMU was playing the 
best defense of its season, Wash­
ington was doing a fine job of its 
own. The Bears were forcing the 
Tartans to take bad shots and 
kept the game from going out of 
reach.
Washington made its move at 
the 11:48 mark. After Smith hit a 
lay-up through the lane, the Bears 
clamped down on defense to climb 
backinto the game. Overthenext 
seven minutes they outscored the 
Tartans 20—2. Instead of trailing 
by nine, they led by nine. Wash­
ington would then cruise to a 
58—42 victory.
Led by All-Central region for­
ward Karen Hermann’s 19 sec­
ond-half points, the Washington 
Bears shot ablistering 70 percent 
from the floor while CMU only 
made 15 percent of its second- 
half shots.
“The key was that Amy 
Buxbaum was out of there,” said 
Seidl. The sophomore center 
picked up her fourth foul three 
minutes into the second half and 
spent most of the remainder of 
the game on the bench.
The team now heads into the 
final stretch of the season with a 
13-8 record, 7-6 in the UAA, 
seemingly out of contention for
fs6 1i,PsA.Nfnurnl )Psrs pbirsu 
pnuAi8u il rP8 .8n.sl_ .saPs6su8 t8nrP8u (—gsll8AA nlb rP8 fnurnl. 
Tn,8b mPi,nys nr Ps68B
an NCAA playoff bid. The one 
goalleftis to repeat as PAC cham­
pion.
“I would like to go undefeated 
in the PAC and win the PAC 
because it‘s our final year in it,” 
said Seidl.
This week will be another busy
one for theTartans as they take 
on Grove City on Wednesday, 
Thiel on Friday, and Brandeis 
on Sunday. CMU beat each 
team earlier this season. 
Wednesday’s and Sunday’s 
games will be at home, starting 
at 6 pm and 1 pm, respectively.
W8l—. 2n.J8r2nAA rusel,8b 
il cvv aAnS sl rP8 usnb
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 //
Washington. Carnegie Mellon has 
lost to the Bears all five times 
they have met, and have lost the 
last three by over 20 points each.
The Tartans were ice cold in the 
first half. After a tenuous start, 
the Bears went on an 18 point 
run, building a 26-6 lead halfway 
into the half. Washington’s bomb 
squad, Jed Bargen, Scott Fiedler, 
and Rick Robinson held Carnegie 
Mellon at bay as the Tartans 
sputtered through the first half. 
By halftime, the Bears held a 
commanding 43-21 lead.
The second half was more of the 
same, with Washington holding 
Carnegie Mellon scoreless for 
another five minutes on a 15 point 
run to build a 33 point lead. At 
that point, the second-string came 
in to hold the Tartans at bay.
CMU was unable to get any 
closer than 24 as Washington 
rolled to the 91-57 victory. Four 
Bears scored in double figures 
while Luckett led the team with 
17 points and Dobbs added 11.
With six games remaining in 
what may end up being Carnegie 
Mellon’s worst season in 15 years, 
the team is still searching to solve 
the problems that have plagued it 
all season.
“I’ve run out of answers,” said 
Luckett.
The questions, unfortunately, 
still remain. The defense is giving 
up on average more than 86 points
m,e moICo64 WeIe 
8Ae A.vD 86 C,e 
t8I4C ,ovt( btCeI o 
Ce6c.c4 4CoICS C,e 
FeoI4 We6C .6 o6 
29 M.86C Ic6, 
Uc8vD86s o k—•— 
veoD ,ovtWoi 86C. 
C,e ,ovt(
per game and is being outre- 
bounded by more than six caroms 
a game. Second half letdowns have 
made some question the team’s 
intensity. “Wemustbegivingup,” 
theorized freshman forward 
Charlie Connors.
To make matters worse, Phil 
Bronner’s injured knee has again 
limited his effectiveness. The 
sophomore played only 10 min­
utes against Chicago and did not 
see action against Washington.
The Tartans play three games 
this week, meeting Grove City on 
Wednesday at home, Thiel on 
Friday at home, and Brandeis at 
home on Sunday. Wednesday’s 
game at 8 pm will be on WRCT- 
FM (88.3); Sunday’s game begins 
at 3 pm in Skibo Gym.
ts,J8S r8n6 aAnye8b 4irP aniu sT As..8.
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 //
Kilduff, Henderson, Larsen, 
and Palli all scored with clean 
punches and won their deci­
sions.
Saturday’s game was much 
like Sunday’s in that the Tar­
tans were simply outplayed by 
their opponents. CMU was 
outshot 36 to 18 and outscored 
4-0 by the Mountaineers.
When asked why the Ice 
Tartans have been slumping 
lately, captain Denny Frey 
replied, “I can’t stress enough 
how badly injuries have hurt 
this team. With everyone 
healthy, we can beat any team 
in the league. Our games 
against Pitt and IUP last se­
Upcoming gamesWPCHA Standings
Saturdav(as of 2/5)
Slippery Rock at IndianaW L T
Carnegie Mellon at Penn StatePitt7 2 0
WestWest Virginia7 3 0
Indiana6 2 0
SundavCarnegie Mellon4 4 0
Slippery Rock at Carnegie Mel­Allegheny3 8 1
lonSlippery Eock3 6 0
Indiana at PittPenn State West2 7 1
mester can prove this.” Last se­
mester, CMU beat WPCHA-lead- 
ing Pitt 6-3.
CMU is now 4-6-0 in the league 
and 7—7—1 overall. With Slippery 
Hock losing to Pitt on Saturday, 
CMU still maintains fourth in the
WPCHA over Slippery Rock by 
two points. The top four teams 
make the playoffs.
Next weekend, CMU faces 
Penn State West at Greensburg 
on Saturday and Slippery Rock 
at home on Sunday.
a
dvertising in The Tartan is one of the best ways to reach the entire 
Carnegie Mellon community. Each week, we deliver you over 
7000 readers.
And if you are an activities fee funded student organization, ad­
vertising is even more affordable. All funded groups take 50% off our rates. 
Other discounts exist for other student groups.
Ads must be reserved at least one week in advance and ad copy and artwork 
are due the Thursday before publication.
For more information, call us at x2111, 
or come to our office at Skibo 50.
PIZZA OUTLET
FREE DELIVERY
ran q c c c (Across from
190 N. Craig QO 8 " jf OOP Gulf Station) 
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs 11am-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5^99
2 Medium — qq I q Large q qq
Pizzas / .7y | ¿Pizzas /.y y
No Coupon Necessary • For Limited Time Only
mWc .Ji r8n6 TiyPr. il,A868lr 48nrP8u
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 //
Silva was 31st with times of 55:88 
and 56:5. Christner and Gerberth 
were right behind in the 32nd and 
33rd spots with times of 49:54 
and 61:2, and 48:77 and 71:15, re­
spectively.
For the men, Hushon was the 
only CMU racer that had two clear 
runs. He finished 42nd out of 77 
with times of 36:69 and 40:88. 
Barmada had a time of 33:74 in 
his first race but lost a ski in the 
second one. Carter had the same 
problem, with a first race time of 
45:34, but did not finish the sec­
ond race. Claugus was disqulified 
in the first racebecause ofamissed 
gate.
At Wisp in Deep Creek, Mary­
land this weekend, only half of 
the team was available to com­
pete. The weather was much 
kinder to the team, with Satur­
day being clear, but very poor 
skiing conditions and snow on 
Sunday.
Saturday, the women placed 
eight out of 11 teams on a slalom 
course. The course was treacher-
m,e W.ue6 ,ole UeoCe6 C,e .C,eI 
G8CC4UcIs, 4A,..v4 .t G8CC o6D 
dc3ce46e 86 C,e vo4C CW. ueeC4S uoEL
86s C,eu 6cuUeI .6e 86 C,e A8Ci(
ous with ice, bare spots and tight 
poles. Banning came in 18th out 
of 47 women with times of 70:61 
and 66:7. Christner had the 24th 
spot in 129:69 and 85:66. Silva 
had a 36-place ranking, as she did 
not finish the first race.
Barmada was the only male 
competitor for CMU. At the end of 
Saturday, he placed himself in 
the number 18 position with times 
of 46:84 and 48:44 and brought 
Carnegie Mellon in to the ninth 
position, out of 11 overall.
Sunday was a strong giant sla­
lom course. The Wisp mainte­
nance managed to combat the bare 
spots that plagued Saturday’s 
races, but there was little that 
could be done about the ice. Visi­
bility was reduced in the second 
race with a much hailed snow­
storm.
In the very tight course, the 
women came in sixth out of 12 
overall. Banning broke the top 15 
with times of 56:58 and 54:67, 
which put her at the number 14 
spot. Silva followed at number 
23, completing her first consecu­
tive runs all season, in 60:09 and 
72:02. Christner also made a 
strong showing with a 28-place 
ranking and 91:'71 and83:3times.
Barmada, who was again the 
entire men’s team, had an 18- 
place ranking and times of 46:84 
and 48:44. This gave the CMU an 
overall showing of 12th place out 
of 13 teams.
GRAND OPENING 
GET THAT BEACH FEELING
SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE FOR TANNING RATES
x1fE(gcmf(ED (IIpE
$1.00 OFF INDIVIDUAL SESSIONS OR 
$1.00 OFF ANY MULTI-SESSION PURCHASE 
7xft ftxC m(c)(1
OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 1,1990 
/- ^ SEE OUR COMPLETE LINE OFCome to tne beacn tanning products & amenitieslook and feel sood 687-4880
!3q CB mEvxL CfEppf O )xffCocELt_ )v /zR/XHX’R3
TANNINGSALON
MAYUR
the Indian student organization at 
Carnegie Mellon,
will be having its first meeting of the year
on Saturday, February 17 
at the Wh errett Room 
at 7:00 pm
Everybody is welcome to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
UAA Basketball Standings
(as of 2/5)
Wp1
cvv7G (FpEvGG7G
Emory100 Emory161
Rochester92 Rochester173
Johns Hopkins42 Johns Hopkins127
Brandeis55 NYU128
Washington45 Brandeis118
Case Reserve34 Washington118
NYU46 Case Rerseve89
Chicago28 Chicago512
CMU110 CMU314
7(Wp1
cvv7G (FpEvGG7G
Washington91 Washington181
Chicago82 Chicago173
Johns Hopkins42 Johns Hopkins135
CMU74 CMU126
NYU64 NYU126
Brandeis37 Brandeis710
Rochester38 Rochester516
Emory28 Emory712
Case Reserve08 Case Reserve314
PAC Basketball Standings
(as of 2/5)
Wp1
(FpEvGG7G )vm7G
W&J126 W&J41
Thiel109 Thiel31
Grove City910 Grove City31
Bethany514 CMU13
CMU
7(Wp1
314 BethanyO5
)vm7G (FpEvGG4L
CMU40 CMU126
Thiel31 Thiel98
W&J23 W&J98
Grove City13 Grove City79
Bethany14 Bethany811
Sports Shorts
) UAA Athelete of the WeekiH
The University Athletic Asso- 
’ ciation named Carnegie Mellon’s 
; Francesca Crannell as the Ath- 
\ leteoftheWeekinwomen’sswim- 
| ming competitionfor the week of 
| February 5.
j The Carnegie Mellon grad stu- 
¡dent was honored for her per- 
; formance in a meet against Divi- 
! sion II Slippery Rock University. 
¡Crannell won the 100 and 200 
¡yard freestyle events, and took 
¡second in the 200-yard 
¡breaststroke, as the Tartans won 
¡the meet, 115-91.
• Golf Team
; Anyone intersted in going out 
for the CMU men’s golf team is 
Encouraged to show up Wednes­
day at 4 pm for a golf team meet­
ing in the conference room in the Boxing News
£ym-
pockey Playoffs;i
i The West Penn College Hockey 
Association [WPCHA] is gearing 
iip for its 1990 playoffs. The top 
four teams in the association will 
make appearances in the first 
round of the playoffs.
1 As of February 5, Carnegie 
Mellon is in the fourth position in 
{he standings, behind Pitt, West 
Virginia, and Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania. Allegheny, Slip­
pery Rock, and Penn State West 
round out the standings, 
j The first round, on February 24 
at the Belmont Complex in Kit- 
taning, Penn., will showcase the 
plumber one team against the 
¿umber four team and the second 
$nd third teams against each 
ither. The first playoff game is at 
4:30 pm and the second is at 6:15 flm.
Earn $150 - $400
MALES AGE 18-23
Do both of your parents have 
high blood pressure? If so, call the 
PITT FAMILY HEALTH STUDY
at 624-9106
Alcohol can have short-lived, drastic results
Ask most college students what 
the effects of alcohol are on a per­
son, and the usual responses deal 
with the changes in personality 
that accompany drinking. But 
what does alcohol do to the body, 
and why do people seem to 
“change” when they drink? The 
effects of alcohol in the body, al­
though usually temporary, are 
many, as alcohol is absorbed, bro­
ken down, and removed from the 
body in a relatively short amount 
of time.
Although some claim that alco­
hol should be considered a food 
because of the numbert of calories 
it contains, it is a liquid and there­
fore is not digested as food is in the 
body. Instead, it is absorbed di­
rectly into the bloodstream, where 
it is pumped into organs along 
with the blood.
Absorption begins almost imme­
diately, with a small amount being 
absorbed through small capillar­
ies in the mouth. The majority 
follows the pattern of food: It goes 
to the stomach. Here it mixes with 
any food that might be in the stom­
ach, which is the reason tolerance
THE STUDENT BODY
by Sheila Skaff
goes up on a full stomach and 
down on an empty stomach.
Up to 20 percent may be ab­
sorbed directly into the blood­
stream, with the rest passing into 
the small intestine to be absorbed. 
Before it can get there, it must 
pass through the pyloric valve. 
This valve is sensitive to the pres­
ence of alcohol, and will not open 
if there is too much alcohol. When 
this pylorospasm happens, the 
alcohol in the stomach may irri­
tate it enough that the person will 
vomit. It acts as a safety to keep 
too much alcohol from entering 
the small intestine, which can be 
life-threatening.
Alcohol begins to be removed 
from the body as soon as it is
absorbed by the bloodstream. Up 
to five percent leaves unmetabol­
ized through sweat, urine, or the 
breath. The rest is changed chemi­
cally, or metabolized. The steps 
in this are as follows: first it is 
changed to acetaldehyde by the 
liver enzyme alcohol dehydroge­
nase (ADH), which is then acted 
on by another liver enzyme, acet­
aldehyde dehydrogenase. It 
breaks down to form acetic acid, 
which leaves the liver and is dis­
persed throughout the body. It is 
then oxidized to carbon dioxide 
and water.
The liver is essential in the 
brekdown of alcohol, and it is 
unique in that it metabolizes at a 
constant rate, (this is the reason 
it does no good to exercise when 
trying to sober up). The average 
rate is around 0.5 ounce of pure 
alcohol per hour, equivalent to a 
shot of 86 proof whisky or a 12- 
ounce beer.
Aside from the liver and central 
nervous system, alcohol also af­
fects other organs and systems of 
the body also. In moderate 
amounts, it is a vasodilator of the
surface blood vessels. These ves­
sels expand near the skin sur­
face, which accounts for the sen- 
sation of warmth and a flush to 
the skin that accompanies drink, 
ing. Despite the feelings of 
warmth, body heat is being lost.
If the bathroom lineups in the 
fraternities on Friday and Satur­
day nights aren’t enough of an in- 
dication, alcohol affects the kid­
neys also.
This is due to the effect of alco­
hol on the pituitary gland, located 
at the base of the brain. The pitui­
tary secretes a hormone regulat- 
ing the amount of urine produced. 
As the pituitary is affected by 
alcohol, too little of the hormone 
is released, and the kidneys form 
a larger than normal amount of 
urine.
This is, of course, just skini. 
ming the surface, and the effects 
of alcohol change as a person 
builds a tolerance, diets, or takes 
medication.
Tartan staffwriter Sheila Skaff 
is a freshman in H&SS who is 
undecided about her major.
Tartans turn in exceptional finishes at indoor track meet
By SHEILA SKAFF
Tartan Staffwriter
West Virginia University played 
host to Carnegie Mellon and 36 
colleges on Saturday at the ninth 
annual Hardee’s Track Classic.
Several exceptional finishes and 
personal records describedthe part 
CMU played at the meet, which 
included several Division I schools. 
Starting the morning right, sopho­
more Mike Damon grabbed a fifth 
place finish in a time of 15:35 for 
the men’s 5000 meters.
Senior Len O’Neal flew to the 
finish line to place ninth in the 
men’s mile run, with a time of
In the 400-meter run, freshman Sean 
Pempel created a personal record for 
himself, landing a time of 53.9 sec­
onds.
4:23.3.
In the 400-meter run, freshman 
Sean Pempel created a personal 
record for himself, landing a time 
of 53.9 seconds.
“I had a bad start, but I didn’t 
feel like I had anything left at the 
end anyway,” said junior Gary
Harrison concerning his 10th 
place finish in the men’s 800 meter 
event. Harrison ran his best time 
so far this year, finishing in 
1:56.95.
Sophomore Carolyn Lowe bet­
tered her time by 26 seconds in 
the women’s 3000 meters, which
she ran in 10:49. Also running 
good personal times in this event 
were junior Kristin Burgard and 
freshman Laura Sibley, who fin­
ished in 11:26.22 and 11:29.78, 
respectively.
Senior Dave Supp seemed to be 
recovering from a recent injury 
quite well in his event, the men’s 
3000 meters. Supp ran a time of 
8:39.34, leaving his competition 
behind as he took first place in 
the event.
The men’s four-by-400 was run 
by junior Jeff Hlian, Harrison, 
O’Neal, and Pempel. They ran an 
unofficial time of 3:35.12.
The WPCHA championship 
game will be February 25 at the 
Golden Mile Ice rink in Monroev­
ille at 6 pm. Playoff ticket prices 
for adults are $2.50 and $1.50 for 
students with college identifica­
tion.
NBA All-Star Game
The East received double digit 
scoring from nine players in a 
130-113 victory over the West in 
Sunday’s NBA All-Star Game.
The Lakers’ Magic Johnson 
won MVP honors by scoring 22 
points, including a record-tying 
four three-pointers.
In the skills competitions, 
Atlanta’s Dominique Wilkins 
won the slam dunk contest, while 
Chicago’s Craig Hodges won the 
three-point shooting title.
tvxECfDGV1L
$4 OFF HAIRCUT 
(with this ad) 
regularly $ 14.00
Perm Special $5 off
2140 Murray Ave., tel: 422-0246 
new customers only • expires 3/13/90
James “Buster” Douglas de­
feated the seemingly unbeatable 
Mike Tyson Saturday night in 
Tokyo, but two ofthe three major 
boxing organizations are refus­
ing to crown Douglas the new 
heavyweight champion.
The IBF has awarded Douglas 
its championship, but the WBA 
and the WBC are refusing to 
recognize Douglas until they 
review a controversial eighth- 
round knockdown.
Tyson and promoter Don King 
claim that Douglas was given 
more than ten seconds to recover 
after being knocked down and 
that the decision should be nulli­
fied. Douglas recovered and was 
able to knock Tyson out in the 
tenth round for the victory.
Fight promoter Bob Arum is 
callingfor the WBA and the WBC 
to be banned because they “of­
fend the sensibilities.”
Computers
SYSTEMS PROFESSIONALS
Do You Know?...
Sun Work Stations, RDMS, UNIX, C, SYBASE, 
SQL/ORACLE. If you possess skills and one year 
work experience in any of the above, we have an 
excellent opportunity for you. Multiple openings, 
great benefits, competitive salary. Please forward 
your resume or call immediately.
COMPUTERPEOPLE, INC.
1401 W. Carson St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
562-0233
A Captivating 
cut. Seductive 
styling. Our staff 
of highly trained 
professionals 
know what it 
takes to create a 
look that lives 
up to your 
expectations.
237 Atwood St. 687-3500
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
! $£oo~off~
On a Precision Haircut
(comDlete with wash & style)
I Expires 2/28/90 G _ MUSTJHAVE COUPON _ |
"I
I
I
I
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
• Perms
• Coloring
• Frosting SATISFACTION
• Conditioning GUARANTEED
BeWildly. _ Entertaining!
Dse nu8 n 2uiyPr ilbiMibenA 4irP Asnb. sT rnA8lrB vAA Sse l88b 
i. rP8 uiyPr aAn,8 rs .ruer Sseu .reTTBBBrs .Ps4 Sseu unu8 2unlb 
sT 8lrPe.in.6B )er sl Sseu .nTnui Pnr nlb ,s68 rs oe.,P 
Lnub8l._ IAsuibn—. 6s.r 8lr8urnilily nlb 8Usri, nbM8lreu8 
anuJ$ pM8uSsl8 4iAA 28 Ye.r 4iAb n2ser SseB 78 aus6i.8$ O
vcgxfx(1C 5 x1fpEFxp7C
Friday, February 16,1990 • 9 a.m.—6 p.m. 
SHERATON HOTEL AT 7 STATION SQUARE »
Cily8u. nlb gnl,8u.
78—u8 .8nu,Pily Tsu 6nA8 nlb T86nA8 T8nreu8 bnl,8u._ nlb Tsu .rusly 
.ily8u. 4Ps nA.s bnl,8 48AAB Cily8u. .PseAb au8anu8 r4s .Psur .8A8,K
risl. -2nAAnb nlb ear86as:B ouily .P88r 6e.i, su il.rue68lrnA 2n,JK
yuselb ,n..8rr8 il Sseu 28.r J8SB v,,s6anli.r nlb ,n..8rr8 u8,sub8u 
ausMib8bB gnl,8u. .PseAb 2uily bnl,8 nrriu8 nlb PnM8 n R 6iler8 au8K
anu8b ,Psu8syunaP8b ai8,8 .Ps4ily 6sM868lr nlb M8u.nriAirSB 
Cily8u. 28 au8anu8b rs bnl,8 nlb bnl,8u. 28 au8anu8b rs .ilyB
We.i,inl.
78 .88J 6e.i,inl. 4Ps aAnS aui6nuS nlb .8,slbnuS il.rue68lr.B 
78 nu8 nA.s AssJily Tsu 6e.i,inl. 4Ps nu8 8Ua8ui8l,8b il bnl,8 
6sM868lr_ 6nu,Pily 2nlb .rSA8B Dse .PseAb au8anu8 r4s .Psur .8A8,K
risl.B
ms6i, v,rsu.
)u8anu8 n ,s6i, 6slsAsye8_ R 6iler8. Asly sT naausauinr8 6nr8uinAB 
Dse 6nS 28 u8je8.r8b rs a8uTsu6 nl i6ausMi.nrislB prPli, binA8,r. 
nu8 P8AaTeA nlb 6nS nA.s 28 u8je8.r8bB
Fnui8rS )8uTsu68u.
Wnyi,inl._ YeyyA8u. nlb 6i68. 4Ps au8.8lr .rusAAily .ru88r a8uTsuK
6nl,8. .PseAb au8anu8 n .Psur useril8 b86sl.runrily Sseu .a8,inArSB
f8,Pli,nA )8u.sll8A
GssJily Tsu 8Ua8ui8l,8b .rny8 6nlny8u._ .JiAA8b .selb nlb AiyPrily 
r8,Pli,inl._ .rny8 Pnlb._ .8n6.ru8..8. nlb bu8..8u.B o8 .eu8 rs 
2uily Sseu ,euu8lr u8.e68B
.MadnesENVIRd
TAMPA BAY, FLORIDA
An [i/iml Opportunity Employa MIH I'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 199015
IM News I IM Standings
SPORTS IN SEASONday mornings at Forward Lanes.ovC9pfovGGDIVISION CAPhiO03Phi Kap B0 2
(as of RN•:The Squad30
BasketballBridgeWv0(EC GpvLcpPioneers21DIVISION CDIVISION HCommissionersCommissionerNike Airs21SAE B20Green Aces2 0Majors — Pat Jefferies, x4204Matt Murbach, x8670ACCWLInsider Traders12DTD A10Kappa Sig A/Bologna2 0Intermediate — Don Michel,Check the IM bulletin board forBeta-A30Pika A12Russ-Puss10USS Barkley1 1x5306the date of the upcoming tourna­Up and In20Physics03Basketball Team12Phi Mu0 2Minors — Sujit Bhattacharya,ment.CIT Old Boys11Proud Pete03DTD B0 2
x4118GSIA+111DIVISION D
Women Only — Rich Romeo,BackgammonLA All Stars02USS Carnegie20DIVISION DDIVISION 1
x4417CommissionerStars03Ben Wa Balls11Asthmatics20The Asylum2 0Complete season schedules canBeth Moses, x4826Beta WPHA11SigTau11Beta Prime Time1 0"be picked up in the IM office.Tournament play, which was toBIG EASTThe Dudes11KDR A11Chemistry1 1-Please play all games as sched­have taken place last weekend,Theta XI20Thundercats 111Major Malfunction11Legion of Doom0 1uled— there will beNO schedulewill be rescheduled. Please con­SUPA Stars20Theta Xi B02Basement Bullies11Pi Lam A0 2changes.tact the commissioner for moreThe Stallions11Marybelle Heart02Â majors all-star basketballinformation.ATO B-Balls11DIVISION EDIVISION Jgame will be held Saturday, Feb­The Businessmen02ATO Posse40DIVISION EPhi Kap C2 0
ruary 24 at 11:30 am in SkiboCricket DartsSpirit A02The Boys II31PI Alpha Delta20Iron Eyes1 0Gym. The game will be playedCommissionerGDI31ATO Wrecking Crew20Theta Xi1 1before the CMU varsity men’sSujit Bhattacharya, x4118x1fpEWpgxvfp GpvLcpBarcrawlers22Lonesome Losers11History Grads0 1game against St. Mary’s of Mary­Schedules are out and can beDelta Upsilon04Bucket Brigade11SAE DFP0 2
land at 2 pm.picked up in the Intramural of­DIVISION ATX Fisheads04Kappa Slg B/BolognaO2The all star game will featurefice. Please report all scores toRun SAE30USS Bird02DIVISION K
“the all-stars from the Atlanticthe commissioner or the IM of­Master of the Obvious20Wx1(EC GpvLcpBeta Outlaws2 0¦ Coast Conference [ACC] againstfice.Nittmo’s21DIVISION FSigma Nu B1 1the all-stars from the Big EastRabid Bayesians12DIVISION AChess Club B Team20Panamanian Defense1 1division. Each team in the majorsFaculty-Grad VolleyballThundercats IIO2Beta Bouncers20Pi Lam B11USS Jordan1 1league will have at least one rep­CommissionerSpuds04Celtics21KSA11CIA-Ruth0 2
resentative on the team.Cindy Brice, x2191Doherty Dynasty11Dangling Participles11
Special guest coaches for theMatches will be played on Sun­DIVISION BThe Yazlovlstskies11Pika C027(Wp1 (1GD GpvLcp
all-star game will be IM Directorday evenings from 6:30 pm toSudsuckers20KDR B02
Earl J. Birdy and his assistant11:30 pm. Please report scores toSigma Nu A20DIVISION GVolleyball Et Al1 0Mike Matroianni. Birdy will coachthe commissioner.Phi Kap A20DIVISION BUntitled20Gerri’s Kids1 0the BigEast andMastroianni willMath02ASA20Pioneers20Donner Hall Dolls1 1
¦Coach the ACC.ChessGSIA B02Black Rain21Mr. Softee's11Delta Gamma1 1
" Admission to the contest is free.Commissioner10,000 Met02ATO Oversized11SDC02SUPA Starlettes0 1
The Intramural Department en­Matt Murbach, x8670SAE C11Pi Alpha Deltao i
courages all intramural partici­Please report all results to the
pants to come out and cheer thecommissioner.resentatives, and officials will bethis year is 59, exceeding lastPinochleRob Frazier, x5433all-stars on to victory. Look forheld this Wednesday at 4 pminyear’s then-record number of 37.CommissionerThe final entry date is Febru-more details about the game inUPCOMING SPORTSthe small gym.The department thanks allMatt Murbach, x8670ary 22, at 4:30 pm.next week’s Tartan.All teams must havea repre-teams for their help and wishes
Team Table Tennis
Floor Hockeysentative at this meeting and havethem all good luck inthe upcom-HandballWater BasketballCommissionerstheir forfeit fee paid by this time.ing floor hockey season.CommissionerCommissionerCommissionerMajors — Jim Connelley, x2976Because of the increase in num­Any team member or individ­E.J. Birdy, x2214Tom Fabian, x4290David Ng, x4492Intermediate — Warren Flax,ber of teams, starting Monday,ual who wants to join the floorThe final entry date is Thurs-The final entry date is Febru-x5300February 26, games will begin athockey officials club should at­day at 4:30 pm.ary 22, at 4:30 pm.BowlingMinors — Sujit Bhattacharya,5 pm in Thistle Hall.tend the mandatory meetingCommissionerx4118The Intramural departmentWednesday, or call Assistant IMWrestlingThe next Intramural BoarcKris Pasqualin, x4594A mandatory meeting for allasks that all teams please cooper­Director Mike MastroianniatCommissionersmeeting is Thursday at 12:30 pmMatches arebeingrolledSatur-floor hockey teams, coaches, rep-ate. The total number of teamsx2214.Bill Cheeseman, x4728in the gym conference room.
__Classifieds
Housing VHS Editing — Facility opening positions. Both positions are
soon in CFA building. Qualified paid hourly and can also be part 
Housing sought for female stu- students interested in working of a college internship program, 
dent. Situation needed starting part time Contact LIZ at x2431. Flexible schedulingis available. 
February 1st. Please call 241- but positions must begin no/
0675,8 am to 10 am or after 10 Best fundraisers on campus! Is later than March 1. Season runs 
pm if you need a roommate. your fatemity, sorority or club through August 31. Marketing, 
interested in earning $1000 + for Advertising, orPublicRelations 
Comer S. Highland and Ken- a one week, on campus marketing students preferred, highinter- 
tucky. Lux 1-Bdr Apt. A/C. No project? You must be well organ- est in contemporary music re­
pets. Security, LgeEooms, hard- ized and hard working. Call Bade quired. Respond via written 
wood floors. All elec. kitchen, or Myra at (800) 592-2121. resume only to: do The Kelly
garbage disposal, mod. eleva- Partnership, 530 William Penn
tor. Well maintained garage JOBS JOBS JOBS Work/Study Place, Box 400, Pittsburgh, PA 
avail. May 1,$500+Electricity. and some non-work/study. Many 15219. Absolutely NO CALLS! 
Call 682-0583. positions available in Instruc­
tional Technology, lower level, Services 
Housing available for graduate Hunt Library. Daytime, evening,
& mature undergradute stu- and weekend hours at $4.25/hr. Low student rates to Europe 
dents interested in an intercul- See Dale Dessell, for applications, and worldwide: Forum Travel; 
turallivingexperience.Reason- 8am to 4:30pm M-F. 681-4099, 4608 Winthrop, off
able rent, 5 minute walk to Pitt South Craig. We also carry
and CMU. Call 683-5064 for JOB OPPORTUNITIES IN AUS- Youth Hostel Passes. Jamaica 
more information. TRALIA. Openings available in for spring break from $449 out
several areas, will train. For info of NYC.
Shadyside Apartment Suites, call: 708-742-8620 ext 1233.
Elegantly furnished, well ap- Roses for your valentine ...Bal-
pointed 1 & 2 bedroom suites. Models Needed: Men, Women, loons ... Alex’s Flowers ...Car-
Includes Cable (HBO), Phone, Children, Teens. Catalogs, Bro- nations ...Love or Like... Deli v-
Parking, Linens. One block to chures. State Licensed, Insured, ery 687-Alex (Craig/Bayard).
Walnut St. shops. From $33 per No Training Reqd. Established
day. One month minimum. 1973. Van Enterprises 412-355- For Sale
Daily and weekly rate avail- 0412.
able. ’89 250Ninjal200Miles.$2,800 .
Healthy, non-smoking, average Includes alarm, two helmets, 
Jobs weight women, age 20 to 30 with tank bag, and net. Garage kept.
regular (27 to 31 day) menstrual Call Scott at 682-6516.
LEARN LISP PROGRAM- cycles and not presently taking
MING AND GET PAID FOR birth control pills, wanted to Miscellaneous
IT. The CMU Psychology De- participate in clinical research
partment is conducting an ex- studies at Magee-Women’s Hos- Pregnant? Looking for terrific 
periment on learning to pro- pital. Reimbursement provided, adoptive parents? Call us! We 
gram in Lisp that is open to For more details, contact Jan have lots of love to share. Bon- . 
CMU Undergraduates. The Bauer, RN, at 647-1609. nie & Bob. Collect (412) 443-
experiment consists of 10 to 15 8938. Legal & Confidential,
sessions, each 1.5 to 2 hours Market Discover Credit Cards on Expenses paid, 
long, and covers about 40% of your campus. Flexible Hours.
an introductory Lisp course. No Earn as much as $10/hr. Only ten ADOPTION: Married profes- 
prior programming experience positions available. Call (800) 950- sional couple (she’s a CMU grad) 
is required. Pay rate ranges 8472 ext. 3014. wants baby to love. Counseling,
from $4.00/hr - $6.00/hr. For expenses available. Legal, con-
more information callx3438. Waitressingpositionavailableim- fidential. Call collect: (412)885- 
mediately. Sichuan House 1900 2470.
Evening housekeeping and Murray Ave. Pittsburgh, PA
cooking. 4:30-8:30 pm, 3-4 15217. To submit a classified ad, call
weeknights. $7.00/hr. 683-0289. The Tartan at x2111. Ads must
STAR LAKE, Pittsburgh’s new be placed by Thursday, 5 pm, 
Wanted — Male Strippers for $10 million outdoor amphithea- before the next Tuesday’s issue. 
social entertainment! Serious ter announces the opening of two Ito20uiords:$3.21to50words: 
inquires only! Call 661-9097. seasonal marketing assistant $5. 51 or more words: $8.
IM Basketball 
All -Star Game
Saturday, February 24,11:30 am
Big East 
vs.
Special Guest Before CMU Varsity
Coaches vs. st. Mary’s
184 .
With the Carnegie Mellon R
p 
m
The Trip In cludes
Round trip airfare between Pittsburgh ^
SKI CLUB
Over spring break (March 26-April 2)
and Denver 
*7 Nights in deluxe condominiums 
within walking distance of the liftsNR
x
*5 day lift pass good for 3 days at 
Breckenridge, 1 day at Copper 
Mountain and 1 day at either Keystone __
or Arapahoe Basin. | )
^Special College week events Q
* All taxes and gratuities j*~*
$629.00 Contact: Adam @X4243

---------------------------------------------------

x.6AeIC4
Faculty Recital: Irene Schreier & Saul 
Bitran. Tonight at 8 pm in the Mellon In­
stitute Auditorium.
Tears for Fears. The show is tonight at 
7:30 at the A.J. Palumbo Center.
Animal Logic, with Stewart Copeland 
and Stanley Clark, will play at Metropol 
Thursday at 7:30 pm.
Ladysmith Black Mambazo. Paul 
Simon’s incredible back-up group per­
forms Thursday in the Skibo Ballroom at 
7:30 pm. Unfortunately (except for AB) 
the show is sold out.
Warren Zevon plays the Syria Mosque 
on Friday.
Charlie Daniels will appear at South 
Hills Theater on Sunday.
A.T.S. will appear at Anthony’s on E. 
Carson St. in the South Side. Friday and 
Saturday at 9:30 pm.
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Or­
chestra. See the performance of 
Tchaikovsky’s Symphonies #3 and #5, as 
they are taped by RAI, the Italian Tele­
vision Network. Saturday at 3 pm in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. Admission is free. 
Call x2383 for tickets.
Chamber Music Concert. Vienna’s 
renowned Alban Berg Quartet will per­
form works by Mozart, Lutoslawski, and 
Smetana in Oakland’s Carnegie Music 
Hall beginning at 8 pm on Monday. Tick­
ets are available at the Skibo Info Desk. 
Student seating is $4.
Whitesnake/Kix are coming to the Civic 
Arena on February 27.
Shirley Valentine will play on Wed­
nesday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm at the Play­
house.
Vertigo. Thursday in DH2210 at 6,8:30, 
and 11 pm.
Chocolat will be showing at 7:30 and 
9:30 at the Playhouse on Thursday.
Spinal Tap. This rockumentary features 
excellent music, like Sex Farm, Stone­
henge, and Big Bottom. Friday night in 
DH 2210, at 6, 8,10, and 12 pm.
The Second Animation Celebration
— The Movie. Great Compilations of 
new cartoons, including “The Simpsons.” 
Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 9:30 at 
the Playhouse.
Young Frankenstein. Saturday night 
in DH2210 at 6, 8,10, and 12 pm.
Revenge of the Pink Panther. Sun­
day night in DH2210 at 6, 8,10, and 12 
pm.
My Fair Lady. This multi-Oscar win­
ning shows on Sunday at 7:30 only at the 
Playhouse.
Brazil. Directed by Terry Gilliam, this 
film should not be missed! Monday at 
7:30 and 9:45 at the Playhouse.
Lovers. Tonight at 5 and 8:30 pm in 
Studio Theater. Admission is free!
Crimson and Cream Cabaret. Pre­
sented by Delta Sigma Theta and Kappa 
Alpha Psi at the Duquesne University 
Ballroom. Friday at 9 pm. Tickets are 
available now at the Skibo Info Desk for 
$5.
Charlotte’s Web. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Jr. Through March 11. Call 621-4445 for 
details.
Harry and Claire. Presented by the 
City Theatre Company, now through Feb­
ruary 25. Call 624-PLAY.
The Threepenny Opera. Presented by 
the Point Park College Theatre Com­
pany, now through Sunday. Call 621- 
4445 for details.
Quodlibet. Philosophical or theological 
disputation and a whimsical combina­
tion of familiar texts or melodies. Febru­
ary 16,17, 23, and 24, and March 2 and 
3. Showing at the Brewhouse, part of the 
old Duquesne Brewery Complex. Shows 
are at 8 pm and cost $7. Call 661-4519 for 
more information.
7eACcIe4
Internal Affairs and Rocky Horror 
Picture Show are now showing at King’s 
Court. Call 682-2334 for details.
Roger & Me, Driving Miss Daisy, and 
Enemies, A Love Story are now show­
ing at Squirrel Hill Theater. Call 421- 
7900.
Stella and Bom on the Fourth of 
July are now showing at Manor Cin­
ema. Call 421-1633.
Henry V is showing at the Fulton Mini, 
101 Sixth St., downtown. Call 471-9700.
Please note that the above listings may 
not be accurate by the end of the week.
Staying Together shows tonight at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 and 9:30.
The Pharmacology of Monoclonal 
Antibodies and other Therapeutic 
Agents: New Concepts. Presented by 
Dr. John Weinstein of the National Isti- 
tute of Health. At noon in DH1102 next 
Tuesday. Refreshments served at 11:45 
am.
Causal Modeling in Artificial Intel­
ligence. Presented by Clark Glymour, 
Richard Schemes, and Peter L. Spirtes of 
CMU’s Philosophy Department. Next 
Tuesday at 10:45 am, DH1112. Don’t 
miss coffee and doughnuts at 10:30 am in 
DH1102.
Black Entrepreneurship in the ’90s.
Presented by Michael Gooden, as part of 
Black History Month 1990. Next Tues­
day at 5 pm in Hamburg Hall 1000.
Women’s Basketball: CMU vs. Grove 
City College (home). Wednesday at 6 pm.
Men’s Basketball: CMU vs. Grove City 
College (home). Wednesday at 8 pm.
Men’s and Women’s Swimming: The
UAA Championships are taking place 
from Wednesday through Saturday at 
Washington University (MO).
Women’s Basketball: CMU vs. Thiel 
College (away) at 6 pm.
Men’s Basketball: CMU vs. Thiel Col­
lege (away) at 8 pm.
Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track:
The Robert Morris Invitational takes 
place on Sunday.
Women’s Basketball: The Tartans take 
on Bradeis University (home) at 1 pm on 
Sunday.
Men’s Basketball: After the women’s 
game, stay for the men’s at 3 pm.
Penguin Hockey: Pittsburgh vs. Phila­
delphia at the Civic Arena. Call 333- 
SEAT for details.
Subway Loves You!! Local Subway 
stores will be giving away 6 inch snack­
sized subs to all walk-in customers, to­
morrow from noon to 1:30 pm.
The Moscow Circus will be at the Civic 
Arena Wednesday through Sunday. Call 
333-SEAT for details.
Ballroom Dance Club Open House.
Learn to dance: Swing, waltz, tango, 
cha-cha, mambo, & polka. Free sample 
lesson and information available. Stu­
dents, faculty, and staff welcome. 6 pm 
in the Mellon Institute Conference Room.
Valentine’s Dinner Dance. Banquet 
dinner, semi-formal attire. Tickets are 
on sale at the Skibo Information Desk 
and in front of Doherty Hall between 9 
am and 5 pm Monday-Friday. The dance 
is Friday at 7:30 pm and is $15/person.
Klondyke Derby. Do you enjoy outdoor 
events? Come watch and help scouts as 
they prepare sleds and compete. Bring 
your order for snow. 9:00 am, Skibo 54 (A 
Phi O office). For information, callx2116.
WRCT presents Sportsline, a weekly 
call-in interview talk show. Free pizza to 
the winner of the trivia contest. Every 
Wednesday night 8:30 pm on WRCT, 
88.3 FM.
Photo Exhibit in Hunt Library.
“Company/Company Town.” Photo­
graphs from the WABCO (Westinghouse 
Air Brake) Archives 1890-1968. These 
photographs provide insights into both 
the worksite and town life. All this month 
on the fourth floor.
Stars of the Pharaohs Sky Show.
Now through March 18 at the Buhl Sci­
ence Center. 237-3300.
1990 Pittsburgh Auto Show. You too
can see the old and new Batmobiles! 
February 21-25 at the David Lawrence 
Convention Center. Call 565-6000.
Help for Undecided H&SS Students:
What can I do with a major in...? If you’re 
not sure where all your classes are tak­
ing you, come discover how to use the Ca­
reer Center to help you explore your 
choice of major or career. Today at 4:30, 
H&SS Lounge, Baker Hall.
Deadline for Student Grants: Grants 
for undergraduate research or creative 
projects are awarded based upon project 
proposals. The grants are usually lim­
ited to $500. Projects must be approved 
and signed by a faculty sponsor. Applica-
tions are available in the 
Provost’s Office, EDSH 207 and mustbe 
returned by 5 pm March 16,1990,
Alpha Phi Omega Co-ed service frater- 
nitymeeting. BreedHall(MM103)(Let’g 
go to breed). 8 pm.
Job Fair ’90 Hosted by the Carei 
Center. Skibo Ballroom. Wednesda 
February 21,1990,10 am to 3 pm. Meé 
informally with employers from acros 
thè country about summer and perma 
nent positions. Employer lists are avail* 
able at Career Services (WH19).
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy ceta
brates Mass on campus 7 pm Saturday 
evenings and 10:30 Sunday mornings in 
the GSIA auditorium. Daily mass is cele: 
brated at 12:30 pm in CMU’s chapel 
(Skibo Room 39). For more information; 
call 681-3181.
The Theolog is in. Clergy from CMl 
Campus Ministry Council are at their 
stand again: Wednesdays, 1-3 pm, Grej 
Matter, Skibo. Argue with them, stump1 
them, or just stop by to talk. 10?.
Compline. Prayer at the close of the 
day. Sunday Evenings at 9:30 at thè 
Heinz Chapel at Pitt.
President to have open office hours
for students. Richard M. Cyert will havi 
open office hours for students between 2 
and 5 pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall; 
on Friday, February 23. Students who 
wish to meet with the president should 
telephone his secretary at x2200 to set 
up an appointment.
CALENDAR SUBMISSIONS. If yoi
want an event to appear in the Calendar, 
send it to The Tartan, Skibo 50, care o 
the Calendar Editor. As always, there is 
no charge for calendar submissions. En 
tries are due by Friday at 5 pm.
Robotics into the Next Century.
Presented by Dr. William “Red” Whit­
taker, Director of Field Robotics Center, 
CMU. Today at 5 pm in the Adamson 
Wing.
Israel and the Future of the West 
Bank and Gaza. B’nai Brith Hillel is 
sponsoring a Faculty/Student tea with 
Daphne Tsimhoni, 4 pm at Hillel, 160 
North Craig Street. For more info, call 
621-8875.
The Roots of the Struggle. Professor 
James Andersen will speak on Thursday 
at 5 pm in DH 1112.
Origins of the Arab-Israeli Conflict.
Daphne Tsimhoni will speak at Hillel at 
5:30, with dinner to follow. For more 
information or to make a dinner reserva­
tion, call 621-8875.
Critical Challenges from the World 
of Manufacturing. A manufacturing 
seminar by Frank J. Riley, President, 
The Society ofManufacturingEngineers. 
Thursday at 4:30 pm in Gregg Hall.
What is Engineering? Choosing a 
Mtgor. Monday, February 19, 1990 at 
4:30 pm. This discussion will take place 
in the Adamson Wing in Baker Hall. A 
panel of seniors from every department 
tells all about what to expect, what it’s 
like, and how fun engineering really is.
It’s not a party until somebody 
bleeds
OPEC
Suds Wadlow Sez, “Rotate your 
tires!”
H: Mike, Stew, do you guys have 
two seconds?
M&S: Yes.
H: Good. Let’s do it right here.
Please. Call me BEAR.
Don’t call him BEAR.
Everybody calls me BEAR.
Do not call him BEAR!
UCC,
Have you checked your bird lately? 
We gave it a yank and it came (out). 
Avian Liberation League
I have no life, therefore I must put 
vague references to my sexual activi­
ties in Vox Populi.
P.L.H.Y.& B.B. Rebozzo
Another Crust for the Pie.
IHn
Campus Police: Hot dogs?
Nod: No thanks, my shoes are tied 
already.
IHn
It’s not premarital sex if you don’t 
get married.
Wyle
Zippy: Ernie, what is fun?
Ernie Brushmiller: Three rocks.
Z: Five rocks?
E. B.: No, three rocks.
Z: Two rocks?
E.B.: No, three rocks 
Z: Four rocks?
E.B.: No, three rocks 
Whiteman
Stickman Sam 
says “I’m in the Vox 
Populi box, because 
you forgot to submit
Nikki,
“I don’t know why I can’t think of 
anything I would rather do than be 
wasting my time on mountains with 
you.”
* Azrhei
Cuddles the Retarded Debutante 
says: “Come to my debutante party, 
Francine!”
J. Waters
...and I’m tired of what ain’t right. Short people are too dramatic
Vto Vox Populi.’J
Morality Problem? Put a Staple in it! 
Bondo
W,
The Gween Thingths are alive and 
lovin’ every minute of it.
S
What happened to parts 3 and 4 of 
“The Rules”???
To the General Public
C.I.A. — Certified International 
Assassins. Think about it!
Mr. 69
Biology and sex are not the same 
thing. I’ve had biology.
A freshman male
P.K.B., word up guys.
Sometimes going back is worth the 
effort. Just take a look ...
With Love,
Worlds Colliding
Calling Dr. Bender- 
Calling Dr. Bender- 
Pinto is sick again...
To women with creases,
How does a guy know which is the 
right one?
Mr. 69
N.B.,
Audit this!
To all CMU men,
Do it until your tonsils hurt. And if 
you don’t have any ... go for broke!! 
Mr. 69
To all CMU women,
Mech E. sophomores have the right 
tool... for the right job.
Guess who?!?
From the office in Scottsdale, Ari­
zona:
10. A dashboard Jesus 
9. Olivia d’Abo action figure
To the Math Dept:
If I were a function of sex taken 
over the integral zero to I.F., then 
the limit as I approached infinity 
would be — UNDEFINED. 
Horny
Rhonda,
Do my hair!
DDDD
Out of all those kinds of people, 
You got a face with a view. I’m just 
an animal looking for a home. Share 
the same space for a minute or two. 
Talking Heads

---------------------------------------------------

volume 84, Issue 16The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 February 1990
It was a party and we won!’
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Tartan Managing Editor
Let the revels commence!
Saturday, February 10. 11 pm. Walk through the north 
entrance of the College of Fine Arts. Show your ticket. 
Receive a hand stamp. Enter, and you know that this is no 
ordinary evening. This is a celebration. This is the Beaux 
Arts Ball.
Hundreds of people are here, dancing and eating and
talking. Some are decked out in their formal best, black tie 
all the way; others adopt finery of an unusual bent, in 
costumes ranging from the subtly odd to the truly bizarre.
There is music everywhere — the audible fare varies 
from the introductory brass quintet to experimental and 
hardcore bands well into the morning hours, with notable 
waypoints of Caribbean steel-drum calypso (complete with 
limbo stick), rock & blues bands, acapella stylings with the 
CMU Jazz Choir, swinging dance music, and almost eve­
rything else you can think of.
continued on page L13
8M8uSrPily rPnr 4n. il mIv 4n. b8,sunr8b xl sl8 4nS su nlsrP8uB
ostumes 
lighten the Ball
5y KEVIN BARNEY
1artan Features Editor 
STEPHEN GLICKER
artan Diversions Editor
“I’m a postmodern non- 
voodgrain simulation,” said jun- 
or CFA student Andy Vogt, a 
npmhor 0f the decorations com- 
who attended the Beaux 
Ball held Saturday night in
two in the morning, the 
members announced 
nominations for the best 
me. Among those nominated 
the Simpsons (America’s 
cartoon characters), the 
Wall, and four people who 
as columns. After the
nominations were announced 
certain members of the Beaux Ball 
Committee and faculty voted on 
their favorite costumes. Within 
half an hour the judges had made 
up their minds.
The big winner turned out to be 
the Berlin Wall, which was no 
surprise to most people. Their 
costume consisted of six people, 
with each person portraying a 
section of the Wall. When the six 
stood together they formed the 
Wall, complete with barb wire, a 
watch to wer with a blinking light, 
graffiti, sounds of gunfire (one of 
the members had a tape recorder 
in his costume), and crumbling 
pieces. The six members of the 
Berlin Wall were senior
architechture 
student David 
Kunselman, 
third year gradu­
ate architecture 
student Benet 
Haller, and 
alumni Maria 
Cole, Pete Moss,
Audrey Liu, and 
Anne-Marie 
Lubenau.
Haller said,
“This is really tame in compari­
son to ’85, but I’m really im­
pressed.”
“[The Ball is] pretty good,” said 
Moss, “but not as good as last 
time. One thing missing — the 
alcohol.”
“It’s pretty amazing. They’re 
both terrific,” said Lubenau. 
“[But] it’s not the same without 
the beer slime on the floor.”
fP8 o8uAil 7nAA ynM8 ai8,8. sT rP8iu ,s.re68. n4nS n. rP8 liyPr 4su8 slB fP8S u8,8iM8b Tiu.r aAn,8 il rP8 ,s.re68 
Yebyily Tsu rP8iu elije8 ib8nB
“So far, so good, but it’s hard to 
dance with a light on your head,” 
said Kunselman, whose section of 
the Wall had the watchtower on 
top of it. The light could be either 
a solid yellow or a flashing white.
As for how they got the idea for 
their costume, they relied mostly 
on the theme. “[The] theme is 
rebirth and that’s why we’re the 
Berlin Wall,” said Kunselman.
“It’s a rebirth, of course,” Cole 
replied. “A rebirth of the world.” 
One of the more popular cos­
tumes at the Ball seemed to be 
court jesters. Freshman CFA
(freshman Nick Hague) and Steve 
Jones (freshman Adam Swift). 
The costumes that they wore were 
as detailed as possible; all had red 
dots representing needle marks
student Stephen Neely was one of on their arms caused by the Sex 
those who came as a jester. As Pistol’s heroin addiction.
matter of fact, he spent “a couple 
of months thinking” of an idea for 
a costume.
Another attraction at the Ball 
was the presence of four punk 
rockers. “The Pistols, The Sex 
Pistols; rock stars we is,” an­
nounced Sid Vicious (freshman 
Brent Was), the bassist of the 
foursome. About the Ball, Was 
said, “I’m impressed, cause I’m 
boring.” Paul Cook (freshman 
Dana Anderson), the drummer, 
said, “I love [The Ball]. It’s better 
than sex, cause sex is boring. This 
ain’t boring. It’s better than the 
Queen cause the Queen’s a pig.”
Another rock star who showed 
up to participate in the festivities 
was The Pinball Wizard (sopho­
more CIT student Tom Jarvis), 
from The Who’s rock opera, 
Tommy. Jarvis was wearing plat­
form shoes that added at least 
two feet to his height. He started 
on the first floor of CFA and 
walked half the length of the 
building before he decided to ditch 
the shoes because “I got tired [and 
I] wanted to see what was up­
stairs.”
Jarvis said he got the inspira­
tion for his costume from the 
movie Tommy, but he’s indiffer-
The two remaining members of ent to the music of The Who. 
the Pistols were Johnny Rotten continued on page L2
There is more 
Beaux Arts Ball cov­
erage on pages L2, 
Lll, L12, and L13.
— photos by Thomas Nichols —
G8Trh Wnrr Lus8lily—. ,nurssl ,Pnun,r8u. 
,n68 rs AiT8 Tsu rP8 T8.riMiri8.B
Inu A8Trh fs6 0nuMi. 8Ua8ui8l,8b rP8 o8neU 
vur. onAA nr n PiyP8u 8A8MnrislB
v2sM8 A8Trh fP8 C8U )i.rsA. nA.s .Ps48b ea 
nr rP8 onAA AssJily Tsu .s68rPily rPnr 4n. 
“lsr 2suilyB”

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
CMU Ballroom Dance Club 
Open House
Wednesday, February 14th 
6:00-10:00pm 
Mellon Institute Conference Room 
(use Bellefield Ave. entrance)
Iu88 .n6aA8 A8..sl nlb xlTsu6nrisl nMniAn2A8
Waltz Foxtrot Tango
Cha Cha Samba Mambo
Polka Swing
vAA .reb8lr._ .rnTT nlb Tn,eArS 48A,s68$
s---------------------------------------.
Coupon 
I(cE CfvE@ q;XH3!33 
)/**v B (v9Gv1g
TWO 10" ONE 
ITEM PIZZAS 
(DOUBLEZZ)
$fL99
Only
One Coupon Per Order 
Campus Housing Only 
Expires 2/28/90
Coupon 
I(cE CfvE@ q;XH3!33 
(v9Gv1g)x**v
STUDENT SPECIAL 
10" PIZZA 
w/ CHEESE
$2"
Only
One Coupon Per Order 
Campus Housing Only 
Expires 2/28/90
Coupon 
I(cE CfvE@ q;XH3!33 
(v9Gv1g)x**v
*1off
ANY
PIZZA
One Coupon Per Order 
Campus Housing Only 
Expires 2/28/90
Beaux Arts Ball Costumes.
Cartoon characters and rock 
stars are a big hit at the Bal
continued from page LI
A popular idea for costumes 
came from the most colorful type 
of characters, cartoons. One of 
the finalists forthe costume judg­
ing was the lovable family of the 
Simpsons: Bart (freshman Fran 
Mamet), Marg (freshman J.D. 
Huber), Homer (freshman Rocky 
Chung), and Lisa (freshman Ryn 
Digiancinto). Maggie, the 
Simpson baby, was being carried 
around by the various members 
of the family. “The Simpsons” said 
their inspiration came from Mike 
Americus. They started working 
on their costumes the morning of 
the ball. Mamet said that the four 
of them had finished working on 
their masks about five minutes
before the ball had started.
Another pair of Matt Groening 
cartoons, Akbar and Jeff, also en­
joyed themselves at the Ball. 
Senior architecture studentDrew 
Grossi (Akbar) choose the charac­
ters because “Jeff and Akbar do 
whatever they want, they’re cool, 
alternative, and hip.”
Grossi also got a kick out of the 
general activities.“This is great, 
[it’s] so much fun. I haven’t had a 
drink in three hours, but I’m 
drunk off of the energy. It’s also 
really cool that a lot of non-CFA 
people are here and it’s good be­
cause they are partying together.” 
Dale Youngkin (Jefif) also had a 
goodtime. “It’s a pretty good party. 
I didn’t expect it to be like this.” It
;
took the two of them a day 
make their costumes.
In addition to the cartoon chL 
acters and the rock groups, 0th; 
infamous people showed up: p, 
ther Guido Sarducci was one 
about five priests, not include 
the Pope, two monks, and thrt 
Jesus Christs.
Also attending were The Jolte, 
one of the Blues Brothers, thrt 
cats, Raggedy Ann and Ragged 
Andy, several barmaids, a pain 
deaths, an executioner, an entoi 
rage of utensils, five phantom 
(from the opera), a Mozart or twi 
hippies galore, a Viking, a threi 
some that used bodypaint and 
truckload of formally dresst 
people.
Let’s face it, there is a lot that is 
wrong with the world today. First 
of all, The Brady Bunch is back, 
only this time around it’s a drama. 
Recently I saw an interview with 
Florence Henderson on CNN, 
during this interview she claimed 
that The Brady Bunch harks back 
to a time when life was simpler 
and that people in these troubled 
times of drugs, violence and po­
litical unrest, people in America 
need The Brady Bunch to remind 
them of what once was.
Call me a cynic, but it strikes 
me as odd that anybody could 
speak in such a way about a series 
which ran from 1969 to 1974, a 
time best known for drugs, vio­
lence and political unrest. As if it 
wasn’t bad enough that people 
better suited to discuss “Wesson- 
dlity” are showing up on my T.V. 
and discussing the sociopolitical 
desire of our country for more of 
that wonderful Brady Bunch 
mentality, I have just found out 
that Roseanne Barr’s movie de­
but She Devil is breaking box of­
fice records in France, Spain and 
Puerto Rico.
To make matters worse, my 
favorite brand of cough drops lists 
“red dye number 40” as a major 
ingredient. Now excuse me, what 
exactly does this mean, that 
they’ve tried to get it right 39 
times before and only now do they 
think that they have a safe prod­
uct, and what if because of “red 
dye number 40” I happen to grow 
ain extra testicle or something,
JAVIDELIC
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
does this mean they’re going to 
foist a “red dye number 41” on the 
next unsuspecting unmutated 
generation?
The latest “technological inno­
vation” to hit the shores is the 
combination microwave oven/ 
refrigerator (the press release 
trumpets “The convenience of 
being able to make ice and pop­
corn at the same time”). The New 
Kids on the Block. Commercials 
are now disguised as half-hour 
length pseudo talk-shows, and I’m 
starting to like them. There are 
rats in the dorms, alligators in 
the sewers, and a McDonald’s in 
Red Square, and all of a sudden, 
Andy Rooney has decided to tell 
the world about his secret pas­
sion for eugenics.
Given that a new wave of free­
dom is sweeping across the world, 
I have decided that there is only 
one way to escape from this op­
pressive, dream-shattering sys­
tem under which I live. No, I’m 
not going to leave for another 
country (I’ve already tried that). 
I have decided that I am going to 
secede from the United States of
America.
The original plan was that I 
would buy the apartment in which 
I now live, stage an armed revolu­
tion by breaking a few dishes and 
spilling some spaghetti on the rug, 
and declare it the People’s Repub­
lic of Apartment 801. I would 
promptly rename the kitchen the 
Department of Agriculture, the 
bathroom would become the 
Ministry of Sanitation, and the 
small dining nook could become 
an embassy space. Two problems 
are immediately apparent with 
this strategy, however: A. I don’t 
really own the land on which my 
apartment lies and B. I have a 
roommate, who may, in turn, 
stage an armed revolution of his 
own and proceed to take the Prime 
Ministership of the People’s Re­
public of Apartment 801 from me, 
and maybe even turn to the United 
States for monetary aid.
In order to avoid the pitfalls of 
being evicted from my own 
People’s Republic I have settled 
on a much more convenient plan. 
I, as an individual am going to 
secede from the union. Effective 
immediately, I will be known as 
The People’s Republic of Javi.
There are several advantages 
inherent in being your own Re­
public. First of all, should I de­
cide that I am becoming too dog­
matic and oppressive, I can al­
ways take up arms against my­
self, not that this would be a prob­
lem, since I could always declare 
free elections and run unopposed.
In addition, should the United 
States decide not to recognize me 
as a sovereign republic and take 
up arms against me I can always 
hide, I mean, it took the U.S. 
Army two weeks to find Noriega, 
and Panama has much less land 
than the U.S.
Another advantage of being a 
fully mobile republic unto myself 
is that should I decide to go into 
hiding in the event of an armed 
conflict with the United States I 
can always stay in hiding. By 
doing so, I will be effectually 
causing the United States to deci­
mate it’s defense budget in mount­
ing a war effort against me (after 
all, since the U.S. Army would 
really have no idea as to what 
tricks I would have up my sleeve, 
they would have to go into an 
intensive R&D program in order 
to prepare the nation for what­
ever whammy I can spring against 
it). By the time the U.S. economy 
has gone to pot as a result of 
waging a continuous offensive 
against somebody they cannot 
find, I can emerge victorious, and 
maybe even gain some land in the 
process.
Of course, being your own re­
public does cause some problems. 
The most obvious one being the 
instantaneous brain-drain that 
the People’s Republic of Javi 
would suffer as a result of my 
going to school at CMU. In addi­
tion, I would also be at a loss to 
explain my trade deficit to my­
self. Of course, I am not immedi-
1s4 Sse ,nl PnM8 rP8 ,slM8li8l,8
ately discouraged, after all, other 
small nations such as Japan have 
done quite well in the world 
market even though they have to 
import almost all of their raw 
materials. Still, the problem of 
raising my own productivity may 
be more than I can handle, what 
with the trade unions and all.
Much less salient but equally 
daunting are the many small 
problems that one has to face in 
being a self contained nation, for 
example, the problem of allocat­
ing space to the embassies of other 
nations within the confines of the 
People’s Republic of Javi is not 
one I want to address outside any 
of the better reputed anatomical
,seur8.S Wx,usIuAby8 xli 
sT n 6i,us4nM8 nlb Tu88k8u il sl8BMBd 
YseulnA.B
What bothers me most abou 
being my own republic is tha 
eventually, I would find the roll 
too constricting. Although I don' 
want to admit it, the pull of tlv 
United States is much too strongji 
Ultimately, the convenience c 
going to the Uni-Mart instead ol 
growing my own vegetables migh| 
lead me to tear down the borders 
use American currency andmaybj 
even watch CNN every once ini 
while. Perhaps the solution liel 
elsewhere. Maybe in ClevelandU
Senior staffwriter Javier Grilled 
Marxuach is a junior writing stu-1 
dent.
vJ2nu nlb 08TT rnJ8 n 2u8nJ Tus6 nl 8U,irily liyPr bnl,ily nlb 6e.i, nr rP8 onAAB
The Bradys return to TV and a 
new appliance hits the market
LOCATIONS:
Wean Hall
Room 4603 
X3729
8:30 am to 7:00 pm
University
Printing
Building F BOM 
X2970
8:30 am to 5:00 pm
Mellon Institute
Ml Room 349 
x5114
8:30 am to 5:00 pm
Student Price 
Based on 20# paper 
81/2x11 size

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990L3
Pennsylvania Bill tries Guinness 
Extra Stout and doesn’t like it
Editor’s note:PennsylvaniaBill 
a beer connoisseur, who travels 
¡round the world sampling dif- 
'¡rent beers, in search of the infa­
mous White Burger.
So, there I was. Laying on a 
(each, staring at the bloody car- 
ass of my new-found friend, 
vforth Dakota, with Johann Riv- 
irdam towering over us.
'God, could I have used a strong 
ieppermint patty.
“Johann, I haven’t had a drink 
t over a hour. Please don’t lec- 
ure me, again.”
The laugh was evil, pure evil. 
“Drinking, who cares about your 
Irinking. Now the truth shall be 
Inown.”
Johann pro- 
eedcd to peel 
iff his human 
jsguise.
“I am actually 
i alien from 
n o t h e r 
ilanet.”
MyGod,Iwas 
ihocked. He 
fas no longer a 
luman. He was 
huge potato!! He reminded me 
f that terrible childhood experi- 
¡nce I had with my Mr. Pota- 
ohead doll.
“What do you want?” I asked as 
stood up.
“I am after the White Burger.” 
,“Why?”
“Because my father was after 
t, and I’m just a chip off the old 
lock.”
I winced at his bad pun. Then 
le hit me with the really bad 
pws.
“I want to team up with you. 
'ogether we can find the burger 
l a shorter amount of time.”
I sneezed.
N86Ae We WeIe 4MeeD86sS B C.vD C,e 
NMcD C. EeeM ,84 eie4 MeeveD( Bt We 
s.C McvveD .leI t.I 4MeeD86sS WePD Ue 
tI8eD(
Miens are destroying small 
:owns across the United States
“Okay. Too bad you smashed 
the hell out of our only lead.” I 
pointed at the smashed remains 
of my dear friend.
“No problem.” He raised his 
sprouts and shot out a load of... I 
hope it’s sour cream.
“Don’t worry, it’s sour cream.” 
He reassured me as the load hit 
the body of North Dakota. A blind­
ing flash deaf­
ened me and 
there I stood 
mutely staring 
at what was 
once a hermit 
crab.
The load of 
sour cream was 
too large and 
now North
______________ Dakota was as
big as a Ply­
mouth Barracuda. He raised his 
claws in anger and then scam­
pered off.
“Let’s follow him.”
We jumped in the jeep; luckily, 
the keys were in the ignition, not 
to mention the fact that there 
was a jeep in the area.
“Do you want to drive uh, what 
should I call you? You’re not 
Johann anymore.”
“Call me Spud, The Spud.”
“Do you want to drive, The 
Spud?”
“No, but I’ll drive the jeep.”
We drove after the wildly scam­
pering crab. By pushingthejeep 
up to 83 mph, we were able to
AROUND THE WORLD 
IN EIGHTY BEERS
by William Burky
keep North Dakota in sight. Since 
we were speeding, I told the Spud 
to keep his eyes peeled. If we got 
pulled over for speeding, we’d be 
fried.
So we continued followingNorth 
Dakota. Finally after a few miles, 
North Dakota hit a tree pretty 
hard.
Hermit crab blood spurted ten 
feet into the air. That’s what I call 
high blood pressure. We couldn’t 
avoid crashing and the jeep rolled 
over a couple of times before it 
finally came to a rest.
“Good thing we had those roll- 
bars or else we would have been 
mashed.”
I winced again. Not at the bad 
pun, but at the broken bottles of 
beer. Yes, there was a case of 
Guinness Extra Stout in the rear 
of the jeep and some of the bottles 
had broken on impact. Alcohol 
abuse, what a shame. They had 
pictures of harps on the caps, but 
it might be a good beer anyway.
We salvaged some of the bottles 
and I popped one open with my AB 
bottle opener.
“I don’t need an opener, watch 
this.” The Spud took a bottle and 
stuffeditinto himself. Out popped 
the empty beer bottle.
“Not bad. Tastes like beer.” The 
Spud said.
“Has a sort of strange taste to it. 
The aftertaste is reminiscent of 
soy sauce.”
“Soy sauce? Maybe coffee.”
“Maybe,” I said as he poured
On March 16,1987, at 8 pm, an 
ien craft, a mile high, and as 
ride as twenty-seven city blocks, 
escended from the sky and in- 
nerated West Greenfield, Min- 
esota, with a laser beam.
Many people from the city of 
ast Greenfield, West 
reenfield’s nearest neighbor, 
itnessed this gargantuan space- 
hip, but at the time merely 
lought of it as swamp gas or a 
feather balloon.
It wasn’t until three days later, 
ihenMs. Catherine Baker drove 
Ito visit her sister in West Green- 
that the disaster was real-
any citizens of East Green- 
¡ld suggested theories for the 
|sappearance of the town. Some 
ought it had been stolen, some 
ought the Communists had 
en it over. Some even sug- 
sted that everybody had just 
icided to move out of town at the 
(me time (though this sugges­
tion was considered unlikely, 
rticularly with the rising prop- 
tty values ofneighboringtowns). 
It wasn’t until Mr. Myron Tet- 
f kip and his wife, Edna, stepped 
ward, that some of the pieces 
|gan to fall into place. They had 
I tyeen driving home from a bingo 
tournament on the night of March 
if
Wt was late and there was no one 
I we on the road. Suddenly the 
ettlekips saw something come 
Iwn from the sky, which Edna 
jpr described as looking like a 
' aceship.”
A man whom they could only 
icribe as “alien” emerged. He 
pyas about the same size as an 
lult male, but a little shorter.
had long “arm-like” append­
ix coming out of his shoulders, 
” a 1 arge hole in his face through 
Mh he could speak. Not only 
rt, added Myron, but he bore an 
sost startling resemblance to 
nmy Durante.
Phe alien asked the Tettlekips 
w to get to West Greenfield 
m here. When asked why, the 
tn said that he was going to 
;>nerate it. They agreed that 
at might be for the best, espe-
JASON SPEAKS
by Jason Lee Smith
cially with West Greenfield’s 
declining property values, and 
gave him the directions. The alien 
thanked them for their kindness, 
sang “Inka-Dinka-Doo,” and then 
flew off.
When later asked why they 
delayed so long in relaying this 
crucial information to the authori­
ties, the Tettlekips said that West 
Greenfield was a hard town to get 
to, and a lot of people got lost 
going there, and so it wasn’t par­
ticularly surprising that the ali­
ens were having difficulty, espe­
cially since they were from out of 
town.
Though, the question still re­
mains. Why West Greenfield? It 
had no distinguishing character­
istics, no genetically remarkable 
citizens, no extraordinary min­
eral deposits, and dropping prop­
erty values. Why such an utterly 
nondescript town? The govern­
ment set a team of highly paid 
experts on the question, and after 
long, drawn-out months of expen­
sive research they came to this 
conclusion. It was a mistake.
Commander H. M. Brandon, a 
noted tactician, had this to say: 
“We basically feel it was a blun­
der, a goof, a complete screw-up, 
ifyou will. Wefeelthatthe aliens, 
despite that property values 
thing, had absolutely no reason to 
want destroy that city. They were 
probably lookingfor Washington, 
or Tokyo, or someplace, and got 
lost.”
Jim Boyle and Jay Cocke, two 
reporters for The Washington 
Post, were unconvinced by the 
military s flippant brush-off of the 
destruction of a town quickly 
depreciatingin value. In the hopes 
of some major award, they set out
some onto the ground.
“Kind of dark, isn’t it.”
“You don’t have to pour it out 
like that. That’s alcohol abuse.”' 
“I really don’t enjoy this beer.” 
“I know what you mean. It’s not 
gross to drink, but then again it 
does not leave you with a decent 
sort of flavor.”
Then North Dakota moved 
again. With his claw, he scratched 
something in the dirt, twitched 
once and then died. A lone howl 
issued forth from a nearby frog.
We ran over to North Dakota 
and for the second time in one 
day, I stood over his dead body. I 
have to pause now. I seem to be 
shedding a tear.
Okay, now I’m ready to con­
tinue my story. We looked at what 
North had written in the dirt. 
There plain for everyone to see 
was the phrase: Follow the
ketchup.
The Spud and I started our trek 
back to the beach where I had 
gotten washed up.
We reached the spot on the 
beach, where the fossilized 
ketchup was. The ketchup was 
fossilized in the shape of an ar­
row, pointing north.
Suddenly someone stumbled 
out of the waves. It was Fish Hook, 
the first mate of the Irish schoo­
ner that I had travelled on.
“Everybody freeze!” He had a 
six-foot potato peeler with him. 
The Spud paled and raised his 
arms in fear.
Then, Fish realized what The 
Spud was. “A huge potato. 
DEATH TO THE HUGE POTA­
TOES!!” Fish continued to scream 
as he ran straight for The Spud. 
The Spud screamed in return and 
started to run from Fish. They
both ran off into the woods and I 
waited until I could no longer 
hear them.
I started in the direction of the 
arrow. The White Burger was near 
and I could almost taste it. I could 
feel that I was coming closer to 
the object of my quest, or maybe 
that was a bad case of diarrhea 
that was invading my digestive 
system.
So, I pondered my health as I 
ventured off into the woods of... I 
wonder where the hell I am?
This feature is provided as a 
service to those members of the 
campus community who are of 
legal drinking age and enjoy 
drinking beers in a responsible 
fashion.
Calendar Editor William Burky 
is a junior computer engineering 
major.
to find the truth.
Combing through governmen­
tal records, they found numerous 
references to similar occurrences, 
some dating as far back as to 
1824!
In 1911, the town of Gilchrest, 
Maine, whose property values 
were dropping at a rate even faster 
than those of West Greenfield, 
was destroyed by unknown forces.
In 1950, a giant radioactive 
gopher, ate the town of Green wil­
low, Illinois; a town where the 
property values weren’t dropping, 
but the wrong sort of people were 
moving in.
1971 saw the destruction of Ocra 
Falls, Mississippi by an alien 
death ray, similar to the one that 
was used on West Greenfield, only 
it was operated by a twelve year 
oldboynamedHarold. OcraFalls’ 
property values were so low that 
all the houses had been tom down 
and a K-Mart erected in their 
place.
But these two reporters are 
quick to point out that housing 
devaluation may not be the key 
factor in alien invasion. They 
mention East Westwood, New 
Jersey, which was destroyedwhen 
a giant custard pie was dropped 
on it in 1897. Its housing values 
had been on the rise for many 
years, and the Chamber of Com­
merce was even considering buy­
ing more land from the neighbor­
ing farmers.
Should you, as a citizen, be 
worried about alien invasion? No. 
Authorites feel that even if the 
price of your house has depreci­
ated considerably over the past 
few years, the chance that your 
town will be destroyed by aliens is 
roughly 1 in 2487.
Of course, many are quick to 
point out that this is still more 
probable than your ever winning 
the Lotto. If you are still nervous, 
contact your local Civil Defense 
Coordinator. Failing that, afairly 
reputable real estate agent will 
do.
Jason Lee Smith is a freshman 
in CIT whose hometown was de­
stroyed by an UFO attack.
Searchf o edcnw
THE ROOM 
RESERVATION
PROCEDURE
for the 1990-1991 academic year has 
been scheduled to be held during the 
2nd and 3rd weeks of March 1990.
Because the mid-semester holiday falls on 
Monday, March 5th, the first phase of the 
Room Draw process this year will be on 
March 6th, 7th and 8th (Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday),and the second 
phase of the process will be on March 
12th, 13th and 14th (the following 
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.)
All students who wish to be considered 
for University housing for the 
1990-1991 academic year must pay a 
$100 Housing deposit between February 
1st and February 22nd, 1990.
This deposit is to be paid directly to the 
Cashier's Office in Warner Hall. Please 
be sure to save your deposit receipt from 
the Cashier's Office since it will be 
necessary to show it in order to participate 
in the room reservation process in March.

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
What do macrowaves and the 
steam tunnels have in common?
My roommate Nate and I formed 
a corporation last month to de­
velop and market a new, top o’ the 
line, revolutionary, space-age 
designed, cooking appliance. 
We’ve decided to call the corpora­
tion McAnallen and Loofbourrow 
Enterprises, or M&L Enterprises 
for short.
I thought it was going to be 
L&M Enterprises.
Shhhh, Nate go away. Can’t you 
see I’m trying to talk to my read­
ers.
All right, back to my story. The 
company consists of Nate as Tech­
nical Supervisor (or is that Su­
pervising Technician?), and me 
as Creative Consultant. We are 
developing a-
Hey, you can't tell them, it’s top 
secret!
Nate, I don’t think there are 
any industrial spies in my read­
ing audience.
How can you be sure?
Would all of the industrial spies 
out there that read my column 
please raise your hands? There, 
does that make you happy? There 
was not a one.
Ok, I believe you. Iguessyou can 
tell them.
Thank you.
But what if they were lying?
Nate!
Alright, alright, I’ll leave you 
alone. You don’t have to take it 
personally.
Anyway, back to my story. It all 
started one night when I was sit­
ting at my desk drinking my hot 
chocolate. You know, the kind 
with the little marshmallows that 
always melt before you get the 
chance to eat them.
Sitting there enjoying the sweet 
aromas wafting up into my olfac­
tory senses was too much to bear.
* So I took a big swallow even 
though it was really hot (about a 
thousand degrees Celsius). As you 
can imagine, I burned off every 
taste bud on my tongue. (Just 
thinking about it hurts.)
It was at that point that a crea­
tive inspiration came down from 
on high and struck me right on 
the left temple. This of course, is 
as much fun as having your fin­
gers shut in the front passenger’s 
side door of a four door car by your 
roommate’s friend’s girlfriend.
Anyway, the inspiration was 
this.
We have two appliances in the 
home that do exactly the opposite 
of each other, those being the stove 
and the refrigerator. However, 
each of these is down right slow in
HIT AND MYTH
today’s age of fast food. That is 
why the microwave was invented, 
to heat food at an accelerated pace.
Unfortunately, we don’t have a 
speedy replacement for the re­
frigerator.
What happens if I want to cool 
something off real quick, say for 
instance my hot chocolate? I have 
to stick it in the freezer or drink it 
hot. But if we had an appliance to 
cool off food fast, we’d have it 
made.
Think about it, the microwave 
works on the principle of many 
waves of tiny particles speeding 
through the food and exciting the 
food’s particles causing them to 
move faster and create more fric­
tion which in turn causes more 
heat. The food then becomes hot 
or in some very extreme cases, it 
explodes.
A macrowave would work on 
the opposite principle. A few 
waves of really large particles 
would slowly move through the 
food, calming down the food’s par­
ticles causing them to move more 
slowly and create less friction 
which in turn would create less 
heat.
The food then becomes cold or 
frozen. So simple that even a fool 
could understand.
Now that we have the scientific 
principles down I shall continue. 
Nate and I were hard at work in 
our workshop ironing out all the 
bugs when Nate said to me, “Eric, 
let’s go the Beaux Arts Ball.”
I, of course, being the sensible 
and practical person that I am, 
reminded him that we didn’t have 
any tickets. To which he replied, 
“Well, we could go through the 
steam tunnels and come up in 
CFA and no one will be the wiser.”
I never said that!
If you say one more word I’ll 
skewer your teddy bear.
NO! Not Bunky!
Yes, Bunky. Just think, Bunky 
kobob!
Well, I, being the ever diligent 
servant to the campus that I am, 
decided to explore two myths at 
once.
In no time, we were decked out
in miner’s paraphernalia com­
plete with cute hard hats with 
those adorable lights on top, fig­
uring that we could pass for party 
goers in our get-up and find our 
way in the dark.
The tunnels were built for the 
purpose of carrying heat (in the 
form of steam) to and from uni­
versity buildings.
It is rumored that many years 
ago students used to use the tun­
nels as ahighway between classes. 
Unfortunately, the university ad­
ministration declared the tunnels 
off limits.
I figured we were already plan­
ning on crashing a party, so why 
not break a few rules? I could 
never have been more wrong.
After five hours of wandering 
subterranean tunnels, reading 
perverted graffiti, walking over 
broken glass, wading through 
radioactive water, climbing six 
ladders to nowhere, trying four­
teen locked doors, fighting off 
rodents of unusual size, and acci­
dentally invading a meeting of 
the Nazi underground (I hate 
Pittsburgh Nazis), we came across 
the sound of loud music and danc­
ing feet.
Unfortunately, something very 
heavy, say a gorilla or a semi 
truck, was resting on the grate 
leading to CFA and freedom (at 
this point we were so lost and 
tired that we would have given 
our nostrils for a way out).
So we decided to explore some 
more in the hopes of finding 
something interesting, if not an 
exit.
Our next stop was the base­
ment of GSIA. However, the hor­
rors to be found there left even 
the steam tunnels looking like a 
rose garden. Needless to say, we 
got out of there real fast.
Finally, after six more hours of 
wandering, we found our way out 
of the tunnels and into the gym’s 
laundry room where we sat in a 
pile ofwet towels and played catch 
with dirty sweat socks until a 
janitor came and let us go home.
My advice after spending so long 
in purgatory if not hell itself, lis­
ten to the administration and stay 
away from that hellhole, it’s not 
appropriate for human kind. Also, 
always buy a ticket.
Eric J. McAnallen is a junior 
creative writing major and a 
Tartan Assistant Features Edi­
tor, who wanders around campus 
looking into the legends andmyths 
of this fine university.
qI.u C,e M,.C. oIA,8le4(((
..
fnurnl TiA8 aPsrs
Dse bibl—r PnM8 rs 2eS n ri,J8r rs y8r ilrs rP8 o8neU vur. onAAB
The Pizza Outlet succeeds
PIZZA TASTERS
by Barry Brumitt, Matt 
McKissock, Jon Slenk & 
Kym Charin
A Culinary Vignette:
Once upon a time....
“The Pizza Outlet?” I asked. 
“Never heard of it.”
Twenty minutes later....
“Damn! This is good stuff ... 
what name was that?”
And they all ate happily ever 
after.
The End.
Although The Pizza Outlet was 
not well known to us, we were 
pleasantly surprised by the excel­
lent pizza they delivered. A poem 
is best.
The Pizza was brought,
It was sufficiently hot,
(Cold was it not)
So we ate quite a bunch.
Wait! No, no, no. Sorry. Prose is 
better.
Frankly, we thought this was 
the best pepperoni pizza we have 
yet encountered in our quest for 
the perfect delivered pizza.
The cheese was plentiful; the 
sauce tangy, thick, and flavorful.
Pepperonis! Good! Spicy! Large! 
Perfectly cooked! Mmmmmmm!
We felt that the crust was just 
right. It was crispy at the edges,
yet chewy on the bottom without 
being doughy.
It was also pleasantly thin, a 
quality which has sadly been 
neglected as various makers 
brought out “thick crust” pizza.
These Philistines don’t seem to 
realize that a perfect pizza should 
be a delicate and well-balanced 
blend ofthe component parts. Not 
a hunk of dough with ketchup 
and velveeta on top.
The Manager’s Choice was a 
colorful blend of sausage, black 
olives, onions, mushrooms 
(fresh!), pepperoni, and multicol­
ored peppers.
Every topping was of good qual­
ity, although we feel that pizza 
should not be so heavily laden 
with toppings that the crust’s 
structural integrity is endan­
gered. This move might threaten 
the whole aesthetic value of the 
pizza.
There were afew too many black 
olives for our taste. It should be 
noted that the excess of toppings 
though of good quality, was to! 
much for this piè. Not a fault ol 
this company, but merely a basic 
fault in today’s pizza style.
Nonetheless, overall, the deluxe 
provided was satisfactory, andii 
fact, better than some we havi 
had in the past.
From now on, we will order pep­
peroni pizza from The Pizza Out­
let. A large pepperoni pizza 
$7.65. The phone number of the 
Pizza Outlet is 687-9555.
The Pizza Tasters are: sopho­
more 1M Graphic Communica­
tions major Jon Slenk, junioi 
ECEI physics major Barr) 
Brumitt,sophomore design majoi 
Kym Charin, and junior cherr, 
engineering major Matt McKii 
sock.
Pepperoni Ratings (out of ten)
MattJonBarryKyA
Toppings8810 .8
Cheese9899
Sauce109910
Crust9878
Aesthetics7878
Overall9999
Value for 
Money878.58
Manager’s Choice (out of ten) 
Matt JonBarryKyra
Quantity of 
toppings8989
Quality of 
toppings97.587
Aesthetics7877.5
Overall886.7
Reminder: February 15 Application Deadline
for
The Summer 1990 Teaching/Research Fellowship 
Program for Minority Students with H&SS Majors
The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (with the support of the United States Education Department) will 
host this summer a research/teaching fellowship program for talented minority students in the college. The program 
will provide financial support and engage fellows in a series of advanced, closely monitored research and teaching 
activities designed to encourage graduate study in humanities, social and behavioral science disciplines and, beyond, 
careers in college teaching and research.
The application deadline for these fellowships is February 15.
Brochures and application booklets are available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161), and the 
C-MAP office. Questions about this program should be addressed to either:
Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS
Baker Hall 161 
268-2925 
jdOx@andrew
or
Linda Watkins, Program Associate 
Office of the Associate Provost 
c/o Baker Hall 260 
268-7026

---------------------------------------------------

«es • Gante »Ccmlcs * Canta ¦ Gante * Cante ¦ Canta » Cani 
Canta « Caries «Cante • Ccrofcs « Oonte » Cants * Comics « a 
T,. Q Ccmta »Canta * Cants Z Conta Q Canta » Conics ^ Gani 
Santa » Cante «Cante « Caries * Canta ¦ Conics * Cbmte » G 
te* Cante »Canta «Canta «Conte »Conte» Conte» Cani 
Santa« Cante «Ccmte« Cante «Cante « Caries » Comte «G 
te «Canta «Canta «Cante «Canta «Corata «Cante» Cani 
Chante » Cante «Cante « Caries « Cante ¦ Cante « Caries » O 
te «Cante »Canta «Canta «Cante «Ccmte «Canta« Cani 
jante « Carries »Canta ¦ Cante « Cante « Caries « Cante « O
te «Cante «Corata «Caries «Cante «Cante «Cernir:« Goni 
“ «Cante « Caries • CorataB Caries « Cante ¦ G
ta« Caries »Cante «Canta «Cante «Caries «Cante« Cani 
jante «Cante «Cante «Cante «Cante «Cante »Gante «O 
te «Canta «Canta «Gante «Canta «Corata «Canta» Ccmt 
Santa » Cante «Cante « Caries « Cetnte • Canta « Cante » G 
te «Canta «Cante «Grote «Cante »Cante »Canta» Cani 
jante » Cante »Ccmta ¦ Cante « Gante « Cante • Caries « C 
te «Canta «Canta «Ccmte «Canta« Gante «Gante« Cani 
Scmte ¦ Cante «Cfcmta ¦ Gante » Comics ¦ Cante * Gante » G 
te «Canta «Gante «Cerote «Ccmte «Cante «Canta» Ccm* 
jante « Canta «Ccmta » Canta « Canta » Gante » Ccmta « G 
te «Cerote «Canta «Canta »Cante «Canta «Cante» Goni ¦ rnmi-f .Oirn-E . rWyd-c « OmW . fWo . r. |~,
QUIZ'.
Jack and Joe leave, their 
homes at the same, time and 
drive toward each other. Jack 
drives at GOmph, while Joe 
drives at 30 mph. The-f pa1 each other in 10 minutes
feT I FIGURED I'D TRI TUE 
DERKINS DAME. SV)S\E AND I 
NEVER WIT \T OFF, ALTHOUGH 
OCCASIONAI WE HIT EACU 
OTHER.-
SUSIE HAD A FACE THAT SUGGESTED SotAEBoOS 
UPSTAIRS HAD A WE\RD SENSE OF HUMOR. BUT C 
WASNT GOING TO HER PLACE 
FOR LAUGHS. I NEEDED 
INFORMATION
THE WAS I LOOKED AT IT, 
PERKINS ACTED AWF\JLLS 
SMUG FOR A DAME WHO 
HAD A HEAD FOR NUMBERS 
AND NOT MUCH ELSE. 
MASSE SVÍS QCST SCttEHMG
NO, I WONT ÌEU. *X) 
WHAT THE ANSWER 1*5».' 
DO SCX)R OWN WORK
OERKINS DAME WteNT TALKING. SOMEONE. HAD 
GOTTEN TO HER FIRST AND SHUT HER UP GCOD. I 
KNEW SOSTE, AND CLOSING 
HER MOUTH W0UUÑE 
Tf^EN SOME WORK
f/k. INSIDE OF MS HEAD WPS EXPLODING YUTU FIREWORK. 
FORTUNATELS. Ml IASTTUOJGHT 
TURNED OUT THE LIGHTS WHEN 
IT LEFT
WUEN l CAME TO, THE 
REC.es ALL FIT TOGETHER. JACK AND JOES LWES WERE 
DEFINED BS INTEGERS. 
0BS\0)SLS, THES VIERE 
PART OF « "NUMBERS" 
RACKET/
BACK IN THE OFFICE, I PUliED 
THE FILES ON Ml THE NUMBERS 
BIG ENOUGH TO KEEP S\)S\E QUIET AND WANT ME OUT OF THE PICTURE 
THE ANSWER U\T ME L\KE A A* 
SLUG ; IT HAD TO BE THE NUMBER 
THES CAUED "MR. BILLION
ISTMß GBT THIS 5TPA16HT. Wd-'RB 
NOT HAVING SEX BE£AUSB SOMB 
IDIOT ON TUB RAPK) 5AIP THAT 
PBOPLB CUR. A6B NO LONGER 
HAV5VMB FORITI
¡Alise rr*~ si I'M GOINGMIKB, ITS A FORA BCHJL
PROVEN TREHP.
Acceprni
YOU PONT
THINK J.J.'S 
BEHAVIOR'S 
AUTTL& 
OPP?
ÙJHAT5 OPP 
ABOUT GOING 
TOSLBBPAS 
SOON AS YOU 
GET INTO BBD?
ZONKBR, A MAR- ^uar 
R1AGB IS MORB c££¿
THAN SL5BPING rANWU 
NBXTTOONB poJ/j
ANOTHBR... 'pepÍT TD6ETH-Jis^V 7al
OH, GRBAT, MIKB! 
TEIL ZONKBR, OF 
ALL PBOPLB, ALL 
ABOUT OURSEX 
UFB! \
News worn m¿,L..HB/! vafps 
HB PIPNT WBARJN6 THE SHIRT
UNPBRSTANP I6AVBV0U! 60P,
A U/ORD YOU LOOK REALLY
I SAID HOT.;
IT OJAS JUST KN0ÜJIN6 
THAT, NO MATTER WHAT, 
WUPALWAYS BE 
THERE FOR MB1
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.

---------------------------------------------------

F FHI women •Ho
The co^a^ewi'
SoM^Ny OBSTACLiS 
to eauAuTy iu th« 
PAST'W« STILL HAtfev
a WAy it> but y 
SWi’LL- 0)C T TH* *i ! J
oh, Fibo/ i was 
JUST RfiPLecri UO]
Ho uHs ingTO ir < 
A sefcw
TOD Ay I.
THU HM HWPtWfO TO ME E^OOQH TIME? apHt 7MArT I woWPfP WHY I MAVEVT HEAU.Y lrsTp To APPRECIATE V-TC SMJoY IT-______|Gtf£/iT. A RLOCPY NQSt.
»Jow ham; on i-tT'i tJOT OCT fU CARWEP AWHCOTTBy KRisritl mTdkK.- HAPPy VALttJr\M'% oAy!
,vC
7qGx| Dse aslwr 18rrf: 
TO WOW»*/ A«DUT eauAUty
’ Vou v" c,oi Tb yvSOI Oc.vb 5
? JSC IT RICiHT Afip ytn'u. 
S^o FAIV • • ¦
Isue6C6
tpvE Wp J 
H ROAR»h<
Cw< C4N f° ANyTWiijCi!; < 
.WOMew AF£ STRONG AWt>
, IHMpeNt>eNT! Vlt ARC.
^ AMAii^Ci Umtdrcs! We ' 
HAve int rov/e*. to cfMie 
>UFe] crte.ns d<?sttoy: < >1 AM PoWCR-PUL'. ytrv , 
h AM STRtW^TH •StVV'lg 
E»FLesH£D/0 «s';
WH6W I FEL.T HIM GMB mY ANKLES To PUU ME T] BACK, I 6RA0JEP THg FIRST THIN6 ( (OlA-D G67 I HQ-P Of TO USE AS A WEAPON-_______ I
« WEhl STtip BY
:30R /tasiAL
I 5wUMG s(3u gS’b wy MIGHT.
S'MAmi? PAO-y? CAT 
“1,»«R TONGUE?JI CAs) Vl^lPLy REMEMBER GOING To the GaLIPARK AU. THE TIME WITH MY OLD AlAN WHEN I w/6 A KIP. FoR.A LONG TIME I WAS GONNA BE Pi B|G-T|«E BALU F'-'TVER. SOME-TIMZ3 I THINK THE n/.igiTiOo HA$.u’t __________LEFT ME._______________
v*iw eiio^i
THE CAT PIPfJT Go cvv THE WAY ACROSS THE STREET, SO I HAD TO B£ CONTENT WITH CAU.IMG IT A PouSLE.-STO?|b COWAHCT5
gUAtF feifl^T urHAT*
COMICS
MUST BE SUBMITED TO THE TARTAN 
BY
FRIDAY MIDNIGHT
TO RUN THE NEXT WEEKeoeeeee«
LATE COMICS WILL RUN THE FOLLOWING WEEK
HANttfMONITG«- CAH /¦*'INSTEAD of TH6 
USOAL RBflTESHTiCK 
Of USW6 SHIPS TO 
LCK7T CWft SHHS,
He«awHtRt we wHd u»rrrsAfti.vy
SO. WOLDyif/. L/L HOW CAN 'itxJ ACT UN£ 
6IWJ^D^VJ4, ^ ‘WfPlONT'itU WJWAWS0M6 <S VJrtf\T^ (OIH6 TD0 i
OTRiRFCdi» ¿.HAPFfeN TOTCMii^l
AOfc IfJ 1Rp»ir!) M S)CMCF,Gfealithsmwng f r
So, ’
UJrtAT PBt V30 
tolMb TO 
CO ''JtW L US'? /
'w««fe bOIWfaTD 
SOL Yoo « StAUftl ua Tne MW05JSOT Ujfc OWwta; cur1 
MlMDS. t6T J 
\ exPWlKJ,.. iJj
¦CVR, PROFIT MWSaW 
FftOM LOOTiNfo AMD 
EMSu^MStJr IS
«Wr 6NC0&H that
\ weflt ABife 70
-----L cffeM OJPL W0K1
V PRIVATEI K) PONDi1
UNrairowiex-Y, a« Rp^re 
BASt owt G?wrt 6tw«Arfc
fCr T81bETsF 48 CpZBBB
WriFI OOft S^TCQ Wi- <A« TWP 
SHIPS N£/ttLY SO.CDO UiWr-Vi^s
c$sOB The ware/frw _yft- Ncmcfep ucp /TX-r 
St?^i TftT&ZS./ £
sc> /iRffiy
& M?T/W cP7rc?u/
...'Wi'ui. HlfltD "mt IWAMCU5 , fiWAtird ScQJfi6fc, CHAW£S 1 
CURSeMWD/ FRowt^i , AU Tit ¿UEAiy Wt Mti-p WITH OWX cue fCNOlTTOj/.
r THAr?aPbBuBaP
. BfelN6...1
iHPiruue /
f SACRlFl6fc IAFituJ RgoRirio 
Hm CTOCt A MoMW. 
&J63S> UMm-PAVir isp J

---------------------------------------------------

Mfe
sCZZ&g**1 ,
i^rt^j^gA-T rH. &JH1"S^eack
1 ^ ask 1 /' ^and F / AdV^rQfpe^?TkV? ' / AjJ^itKe-^f V«P *H
f¿1^1:i& to&sa*
®RS_
¦ i^irpsr
ss
IK* >re cTpsA^S I 9^
The Far Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
SRILpeNcLpi
piK.£<rTtox4
AT 26ST ELEN/Arae,
J ¡Jf
E>l£LOSED >E.Ei\
eaaJNiNii vT.RF4 
EKT\U<i> "Ful'S
l=e*2o Toymci. v</HA.\tz,
7iAbAiT8 bnS .PiTr.7irP Esy8u ser sT rP8 4nS_ ir 4n. Cibl8S—. 
2iy ,Pnl,8B
VK> W&RTMAMftSGiUAN INLET, ¿j.cr... A W4V£.
i* Vol Side CARyljkRSON
oeAAJlirr8u.
fP8 anu8lrily nbMnlrny8. sT b8lri.r.
ftph C(0*mC*AHuS q/EBGH )pET¿Wp Ct(mB7T07wxp x1ufpx¿CFfS ft5(9HF
rr-fa tPErtet2S 8\vzd-s -pgjcm >
IV^l-FWVyTeS j SMRl VC>MVrii^>
?-----j f»\\LK. i vSRSO2)b vvs\©*4 >
SoeTZcviMtt, A*ilW>4_3 H6M&S', B’OPZM'i b\CS& V^A\eS
lHT^ePe(2E<> WVTM V>i£f*TUGT£. -pXTYe^S.^
JW4S iZADAJZ’, TC>V-\C. TC> A>4y-nA^^ WITM UJb^S.
LEGEND

---------------------------------------------------

The /4dv/e.*ïtv<e5 a F1 u; L1N8iHS2s¿w i—_M—
¦» onoT^e»" ftSíl'on''
^'H*PPVvwni WetK'7
ön -^«¿O-Y Jf agencio. I51 he^T 
fVeídny'j' píCl^i'Cj W>1<»T coloir 
18 PctiVa Benr'ie'í A/cw huT, W 1 our fA\jorivt Food
Of TV« wanPi/
tí*>j /«S- ArJ 
"Pie Frow«/ 
|n\faíl'«i of ì*!« 
Galaxy.
LxsoK rt\y in?*Cmafa
Fr»m a- vef/ 
reliable Succe. ^ wo'rKy°°
s___/Coow/'
i 4}' Oor ¿d ho-vc ^
y Yaaa'>'-/
8 jT’0G“2(o \|1-<î‘/'v*\/o.S . ^ ^ ^ , I H "«*13,1
,,: U'^H'voVo^- 1^,,, '
-yay- ~~~
â> â
yow^í^ <2
Loo<> we cnA -vtme
her«-' Wor£) UaS it TT»t Pie-
Öfaran Emf«;--------HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH-
Í5 io ,ea3^/WLsA., '\H\X $S2“PtE Tit ^ \ V
frowoi‘e5. '^\.
/»le^w/hì’té
ume Toha s
BjT, WE'ge A L-CTTU0 
B6HIMD(3Ui,T LIKE AU_ /W
yvT))k­Gb —R GC0y”vk2) 
world, it's still TanuARV
AwO THE GUYS. HAVE "3V/^T 
Gcn-PBM SACK....
3k/ dfe-, 3a6. S, p££^ 
Hev Aej,E Loot $CTO (D0O 
d0n LCnS )OTTT) x (O ) T RkG 
HI-TECH CA/viO SUIT I
EVyRyW HSAe.fgW8ftA90xi»
To 111 iï2
vmE(CC!z mnA8lbnu n22u8MiK// xl.rnlr.
nrisl/R LsAT8u. Cn6 nlb 0BmB
/G8by8u ,sAe6l!q xs4n ,sAA8y8 rs4l/! 7iy4n6.
’I86ilil8 rirA8.!’ cl,sl.,ise. .rnr8./z 7Pil8
/XIssb Ti.P!• G8ynA bs,e68lrR3 mer
/zHHHHHHHHw. f86aA8z/ LsAT r8u6RX gui8. nynil
x /q F8uS A8nul8bzR C886ilyAS ,slrunuSRz fSa8 sT Snul
/’(TT8l.iM8_ n. nl.rnr868lrR’ m8urnil rue,J.
sbsuz! HHHHHHHH EirnR• mPn628uAnil_ 8r nAB
/;In6iAS 68628u_ Tsuzz oue28,J_ Tsu sl8X/ "7P8l x 4n. n
.Psurz’ Ei,PAS u8Til8bHHHHHHHHBBB"
/•InAAn,ise. u8n.sl8uz• Gs,s6sriM8.XX Lu88J li,Jln68
R/CnA rsl_ Tsu sl8q3 C8n ,s4Xq G8rre,8 Mnui8rS
RR0niA -.Anly:q/ 7nAJ8b el.r8nbiASX’ W8nl
n R! v,rsu mPui.rsaP8uqR Enl,P 4suJ8u.X; 184.ana8u .8,risl
/ Rz Wnyi,inl—. .rnTTX• mus4l
/ RqCru88r. -n22uB:g(71!3 Eel Q
/ R; I86nA8 .P88a!/ ms6as.8u WnU HHHHHHHH
x R•me.rs6./ os22S Ii.,P8uw. yn68!R HHHHHHHH gnl
x X3 Crniu,n.8 as.r.R Eery8u.w uiM8u!! )nrPsAsyi,nA .eTTiU
/XRGnlb8b ausaui8rsu.X Cx iaa8uS!’ xl.a8,r8b 28Tsu8
-C,srB:! )8uTsu68bus22ily
/X!"HHHHHHHH gily gslyz 7nbily 2iub!; fSa8 sT 8l8uyS
gnbbSBBB"q xl.rue,rsuz3 CPs4. 8U,8..iM8
/ Xz Gir8unuS 6slsyun6’ m8urnil Asby8Tslbl8..
x XqLunlb HHHHHHHH_ ti ,PB68628uzR )slb8us.n HHHHHHHH
x X• E8a8nr 6nuJ.; gi.6selr8bzX )u8TiUh Tsu8iyl
x !R CS62sA. sT a8n,8• 0sPl HHHHHHHH )n..s.zq 1srPily
G
tn4niinl .rnaA8/3 HHHHHHHH vlbSz; tinre.
On, v00q2:pr s. fVW's Pcavm\S 
BarmEY.
HrlYA kwc*w , Qm oc6>lç; I'm 
Kiimqa wORRigD ABOUT My 
e.oowvvAt£. He'sweiRD. 
OOVOV) say that? A V /w_ ; )
He Does, wEifep )O’aab He 
SCEATCHtS THe eURWITURe
TRe Loses CTSn everciwHee
ch ' CUR CuP6DAftrx ARE Euul 
OE- TUwA.'A <MCXM WHAT H-E
GöT aezb LCn.)OT2.T)W M-e 
<=€5^" A Ruse.ee /^oosev. He STg0.B2O evS'V vkO gtSG
FLAY WITH ITLICXXI'T S-BT 
IT. /V^- - - '
v ^
I© Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-15Ì
mf?*C
m**XfZCOThese are the answers to last week’s puzzle
taaaaaaGiEa qqhekdb 11118484.4I nnennni<m6Cpxo<x< ooopYn<nnn ns,H6inn nnnl ??taci Qaaaa 
>>>ögpopC <g<<CpXV/3• 
?BBSEI QQ00CS QQ90QOQ ???sa aaara ><g nn.nn nnnnn ?aaaaaaa saaaas sQBCJts Bnam aaaa QQaaooi ama aaaaaa aaaoaaaa <(Linnn nnngn.nn (oooo( 333333X3
So WHAT DIPNOO ¿ex FOR
Cu YWICKMKH 6>ARKiev?
/ T Gcsr TQ FDi rJT j sNic 
i T useo it aleeADN1.
«««««««í_i \B ¦ BBBB/HHHHHHHHHH1|1HHHHHHHHHH
perc*Wer is st'U l^avinq•tvoufe>Ve -folVovo'»«^ tViis.i<v y- iTTir
JK DC.STH T PeeL IyoNM eoe 
peoPLe who omlv <jot U.Ò'ì.
(2e Mevee. APM IT TO &ßAOT-i 
THAr Louj.
sCTO e.0 U0P ,cj
io UR. MATOE. is?
I HtSS Histdk.'v I
tóSV
V*-
sCTO wese wcue. &ßAoes ’qkW 
Great Í j_&cst a 4.OJM0,
WAIT, THAT IM^S. SOMEOMt
€t_SÆ. I 60T .Mo.x THlMt, 
N\0klt SA^Ç IP r TAKt THE 
iMTeeÄftLOF Twe SpoArRe Rco-r OP mN QPA T MIGtHT PASS'. I
Wow DID vou GgT’ A .MO IN
uS)O0nUW'W/ rtrnwyo:sS eepAr/r
¦THipjfc.. sCTO e0kGOCTO 
W8M88 NM'iWgB

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
JammirT one-on-one with David Benoit
By JEFFREY M. MULLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Jt’s a funny thing how critics 
¡an lambast an individual and 
:onstantly complain how a 
particular artist’s music has no 
merits, yet this same person can 
jraw sellout crowds at virtually 
¡very venue that he plays.
Pianist David Benoit’s grow­
ing legion of fans doesn’t seem 
:apable of silencing the forked 
angue of the jazz critic, but 
ikewise the critic’s venemous 
ittempts to injure Benoit’s 
•eputation seem to constantly 
ail. His latest album, Waiting 
or Spring, is number one on the 
Billboard jazz charts. Benoit 
jerformed at Graffiti last 
Thursday night.
“I don’t mind the criticism,” 
¡ays Benoit (pronounced Ben­
ya), “because I get a lot of 
etters from people that one of 
ny songs inspired them, helped 
;hem out of a depression.”
It is the audience that Benoit 
)lays for, anyway — not the 
critics. In fact, the amiable 
Benoit still makes it a point to 
meet with his fans and to read 
as much of his fan mail as he 
can: “It’s like with politicians, 
the more they are in touch with 
;he public, reading their letters 
ind getting their feedback, the 
jetter. I know when I go to 
isten to music, if I can meet the 
jerformer and shake his hand
CMU Philharmonic caps off three 
weeks of rehearsal for Italian TV
0slnrPnl pAb8uTi8AbNfnurnl )PsrsyunaP8u 
vAe6ln 0eAi8 fueb8ne ,nu8TeAAS r8.r. rP8 air,P sT P8u ri6anliB
By PETER ALBERT 
& LINDA VAN KEUREN
Tartan Staffwriters
“I like the students of Carnegie 
Mellon. They belong to the inter­
esting world of youth that I am 
very attracted to,” comments 
Maestro Vladimir Delman.
Delman, the artistic director 
and first conductor of Milan’s RAI 
Symphony Orchestra, has come 
from Italy to conduct Carnegie 
Mellon’s Philharmonic Orchestra. 
He is here in conjunction with 
RAI, Italy’s premiere television 
network, to complete the filming 
of Le Magnifiche Six, a six part 
series involving three student 
orchestras from around the world, 
one of which is CMU.
On Friday RAI will be filming 
CMU’s Philharmonic Orchestra
at the Carnegie Music Hall in 
Oakland. The concert takes place 
at 3 pm and is open to the public. 
CMU students are encouraged to 
attend.
The project was originally con­
ceived by Delman and Anna Maria 
Cermak, director of culture at the 
American Embassy in Rome. 
Delman. had the idea of conduct­
ing three youth orchestras, each 
performing two of Tchaikovsky’s 
six symphonies.
Delman said he wanted to work 
with “three youth orchestras from 
the U.S.,U.S.S.R., and Italy,” and 
after he discussed the idea with 
Cermak, she made arrangements 
with RAI to start the search for 
the best conservatory program in 
the United States.
Marilyn Thomas, head of the 
Department of Music, submitted
tapes of the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic Orchestra last 
spring to RAI for consideration. 
Twenty other conservatories from 
around the country competed for 
the chance to represent the United 
States. After lengthy negotiations, 
RAI, Delman and Thomas signed 
an agreement in a Charlotte, 
North Carolina coffee shop dur­
ing the last week of October.
The project’s goal is to examine 
the training and rehearsing that 
goes into the production of a clas­
sical music concert. Tchaikovsky’s 
six symphonies were chosen to 
showcase the talents of CMU’s 
Philharmonic Orchestra, 
Moscow’s Tchaikovsky Conserva­
tory Orchestra, and Milan’s Gi­
useppe Verdi Conservatory Or­
chestra.
The CMU Philharmonic Or­
chestra will be performing 
Tchaikovsky’s Third and Fifth 
Symphonies. After this program 
has been completed, thirty-five 
students from each of the partici­
pating groups will be chosen to 
form an international orchestra. 
This ensemble, conducted again 
by Delman, will tour the U.S., the 
U.S.S.R., and Italy next winter.
RAI, which has been filming at 
Carnegie Mellon since February 1, is recording all rehearsals as 
well as the students, faculty, and 
campus life of CMU. This footage 
will be combined with the footage 
of the February 16 concert. Ac­
cording to Delman, “Thomas has 
put everything of herself into this 
concert.”
Le Magnifiche Six will air in 
Italy and the U.S.S.R. this fall, 
,slrile8b sl any8 G/3
'Inspirational music is a dream come true for Ladysmith
By MIKE SCHWARTZ
^Tartan Senior Staffwriter
So, what is Ladysmith Black Mam-, 
•azo and why is it so popular here at 
)MU? Originally from South Africa, 
•adysmith Black Mambazo is a ten-man 
¡and made up of seven basses, one tenor, 
alto, and a baritone. These voices will 
•mbine Thursday night in the Skibo 
allroom.
t Ladysmith Black Mambazo is proba­
bly best known for its work with Paul 
[Simon on the Graceland album. The 
‘oup’s music is a cap'pella, closely re- 
ambling Bobby McFerrin and his song 
'on’t Worry, Be Happy.”
However, the message from this band 
is more like “Don’t Worry, Be Free.” The 
and has turned its music into an art 
lrm, full of wonderful harmonies and 
rofound emotions.
The group’s sound is derived from a 
Jculiarly South African music that is 
Jmetimes called “Ngomabusuki,” which 
eans “songs of the night. ” Ngomabusuki 
msic is primarily sung by black miners, 
ir from the ears of their bosses. These 
mers live in single-sex dormitories that 
Te close to their jobs, but far from their 
Emilies and loved ones. Given such 
esperate origins, one would expect this 
usic to be sorrowful, and it is. But the 
fusic also captures the spirit of the hope 
,r freedom from oppression, and it is
"I think the most amazing thing that has 
come from our work with Paul Simon is that 
we have now traveled around the world, and 
people love us and love the way we sing. ”
— Joseph Shabalala
often set within a religious theme.
The name “Ladysmith Black Mam­
bazo” translates as “The Black Axe of 
Ladysmith.” The group chose this name 
after winning every singing competition 
it entered, basically “cutting” down all 
opponents. The group’s local notoriety 
eventually took it to the city of Johan­
nesburg, where a live broadcast put it in 
the national spotlight in South Africa.
Joseph Shabalala, the founder and lead 
singer for the group, grew up in the 
grasslands near Ladysmith, somewhere 
near the province of Natal. Shabalala 
had been forming other bands long be­
fore the arrival of Ladysmith Black 
Mambazo. As he recalls, “I always felt 
this was very personal, very good music, 
but I felt there was something missing 
somewhere. I formed the group in 1960 
and tried to teach them music that I feel, 
but I failed until 1964 when a dream 
came to me. I always hear the harmony
from the dream, and I said that this is 
the harmony that I want. I learn from 
this dream until those who are singing 
for me appeared and they were children. 
I can’t say whether they were black or 
white, but I discovered they were float­
ing between the stage and the sky. Those 
children are singing very nice with their 
beautiful voices. If the children were 
here on earth you’d find me amongst 
them, singing.”
Ladysmith Black Mambazo started 
recording albums in the 1970s. Since 
that time, there have been twenty-seven 
records, all of them hot sellers in South 
Africa.
However, the group was relatively un­
known outside of Africa until Paul Si­
mon heard it during the process of re­
cording the Graceland record and de­
cided to incorporate its talents. The group 
flew to London to record with Simon. The 
band received international acclaim as
well as a Grammy 
award for its contri­
butions to the album.
Not long after came 
the first American 
release, Shaka Zulu, 
sung half in English, 
half in Zulu. The al­
bum was produced by 
Simon. Since then,
Shabalala says the 
group has been very 
busy. “I think the 
most amazing thing 
that has come from 
our work with Paul 
Simon is that we 
have now traveled 
around the world, 
and people love us 
and love the way we 
sing. That’s it. I am a singer. And now I 
see how much people listen to the music. 
Amazing things have happened since 
1986 when we made Shaka Zulu"
Ladysmith Black Mambazo’s most
W8Asbi8 Li6aA8N?/•;; 7nul8u ous.B E8,sub. 
GnbS.6irP oAn,J Wn62nks 4iAA a8uTsu6 il rP8 onAAuss6B
sion commercial, which won a Cannes 
Film Festival Award for being one of the 
most innovative commercials in recent 
times.
Ladysmith Black Mambazo is one of 
recent American release is Journey of Africa’s most enduring acts. Anyone that
Dreams, which was released about 
year ago. The group has also made ap­
pearances on every major television show 
from The Tonight Show to Sesame Street. 
The group can be heard in Eddie 
Murphy’s movie Coming to America, and 
a track from the Shaka Zulu album has 
been incorporated by 7-Up into a televi-
was lucky enough to get tickets for the 
show will be in for an inspiring evening.
Although Paul Simon isn't planning 
any trips to CMU this week, Ladysmith 
Black Mambazo will be performing 
Thursday night in the Skibo Ballroom at 
7:30 pm.
“Jazz always reminds me of good 
times. It is the only music that makes 
you feel that way. When you listen to 
some swinging good jazz, it just 
makes you feel good. ”
— David Benoit
and tell him I loved the show, 
that means so much to me.”
Not only is he personally 
approachable, but his music is 
approachable too. “I do fusion, 
the foot-stompin’, rockin’ stuff, 
because it’s something that 
people can relate to,” he says.
Benoit, however, is not one­
dimensional in his music. 
Although the majority of his 
albums are contemporary jazz 
(the term that he prefers for his 
stylistic synthesis of jazz and 
popular forms of music), he has 
done some writing for television 
— notably the most recent 
Peanuts special —- as well as 
some traditional “straight­
ahead” jazz.
Would he like to do more of 
the traditional jazz that the 
critics prefer? “I do as much as I 
like to do,” he says. “I’m really 
comfortable with the amount of 
straight-ahead that I’m doing. It 
used to be that every once in a 
while I would take a straight
ahead gig just to show that I 
could still do it. There are 
musicians who do fusion and 
contemporary jazz only because 
it’s economically stronger. I’m 
not one of those people, I love it. 
I do it because it’s just as equal 
a part of me as traditional jazz 
is. The only time I’ve ever done 
anything to really make money 
was when I was really poor, I’d 
go out and play weddings and 
bar mitzvahs.”
Being poor is something that 
Benoit should have little fear of 
at present — he is riding a wave 
of popular support that has 
allowed him to become one of 
the most successful jazz per­
formers today.
In spite of his success, Benoit 
says he still has a great deal to 
accomplish. Another album is in 
the works, as well as some 
television projects and some 
work in film scoring. Classical 
music also fits into his plans for 
the next few years. “I intend to
do a symphonic piece in the 
next year or so, to write a 
legitimate symphony. It’ll 
be a bit of Stravinsky, 
some Copeland, a 
little Bernstein,” he 
says. “I’ve had 
some experiences 
with classical 
music. The Winne- 
peg Ballet choreo­
graphed one of my 
pieces and I scored it 
for symphony orchestra 
and played in the pit.”
In fact, Benoit is an 
ardent admirerer of classical 
musicians. “You always 
admire what you can’t do. I’m 
sure a lot of classical players 
wish that they could just blow 
over some changes. But I think 
that classical music is some­
thing that every musician 
should at least work on a little 
bit. It is a lasting music.”
Music has always been a part of 
his life, says Benoit, because his 
parents were big music fans. 
“Classical music was the music 
we listened to when we had to do 
homework, jazz was what we 
listened to on the weekends.
Jazz always reminds me 
of good times. It is 
the only music that 
makes you feel 
that way.
When you lis- 
,slrile8b sl 
any8 G/3

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
Paul McCartney holds his own with Flowers
oS Wx9p Ctv)xE(
Tartan Staffwriter
Paul McCartney’s legendary years with 
the Beatles serve as a sort of safety net 
for his solo career; no matter what he 
does with himself these days, he retains 
a base level of earned respect, simply 
because, well, he’s Paul McCartney. As 
inLennon and McCartney. Googoog'joob. 
Sgt. Pepper. What more need be said?
Most artists would exploit such a 
comprehensive insurance policy as a way 
to lapse into lazy mediocrity, riding on 
the momentum of the past with minimal 
effort or innovation. However, 
McCartney’s lateBt, Flowers in the Dirt, 
far from being any sort of disappoint­
ment, is a diverse and intriguing work in 
its own right, and shows that the Walrus 
is using his past music as a stylistic 
springboard to the present rather than a 
hammock in which to sloth about and 
demand an unearned homage.
—Record Review—
^^^ IG(7pEC x1 ftp gxEfB By Paul 
McCartney. Capitol Records.
What becomes clear from the first song 
is that McCartney has no intention of 
working himself into a frenzy in a des­
perate attempt to sell himself to the 
masses. We live in a sad era where music 
publishers root through songs like scav­
engers, tearing out isolated catchy 
“hooks" from their necessary contexts, 
and discardingthe rest as useless cadav­
ers.
McCartney doesn’t succumb to this 
trend; he doesn’t need to. He varies his 
songs dramatically, rather than confin­
ing them to static archetypes. One sec­
ond a piece can be hurried and grim, then 
break unexpectedly into an instrumen­
tal lapse of slurring strings and off-bal­
ance brass. Some melodies retain 
McCartney’s characteristic, meandering 
style — without losing any strength — 
while others break new ground entirely. 
Flowers in the Dirt is anything but stag­
nant.
McCartney achieves a startlingly sin­
cere warm-heartedness in several songs, 
avoidingthe exaggerated, puffy-eyed sen­
timentality so prevalent today. “Put It 
There” features a calm, dignified theme 
of paternal wisdom, while “How Many 
People” is a simple, vaguely reggae-like 
tune with a straightforward, yearning 
chorus.
Some tracks take a little getting used 
to. “My Brave Face” is a bizarre mixture 
of loose-limbed bass and rich, blended 
vocals. And “Don’t Be Careless Love,” 
with its windy, ethereal resonance (and 
painful lack of punctuation) almost bor­
ders on the eerie.
Most of the songs are energetic and 
immediately likable. “Rough Ride” com­
bines good choral management with an 
addictive, head-bobbing beat. “We Got 
Married” is a serious, retrospective piece, 
strengthened by its quick, jangling acous­
tic guitar line. And, saving the best for 
last, McCartney ends the album with 
“Ou Est Le Soleil,” a powerful, modem- 
sounding dance-oriented song with echo­
ing, almost haunting vocals that evoke a 
fascinated thrill without overwhelming 
the listener.
In fact, the only real disappointment is 
“Motor Of Love,” a soggy, moaning en­
treaty that falls far below the quality of 
the rest of the album. But even the less- 
memorable songs aren’t offensive or both­
ersome, and the many high-quality ef­
forts on the album more than compen­
sate for any lag.
Flowers in the Dirt stands apart from 
the rest in today’s musical wasteland. 
The songs are interesting and enjoyable, 
and have enough substance not to be 
trite or mindless. It’s so rare that I come
,seur8.S mnairsA E8,sub.
across an album that’s worth actively 
going out of your way to buy that I feel 4 
like plastering Skibo with promotional 
posters. So pick up McCartney’s latest, 
and be content that musical ability still 
exists in this world — and doesn’t keep 
quiet.
ABC’s new show Elvis ain’t nothin’ but a hound dog
oS v1gEp7 7tppGpE
Tartan Staffwriter
You knew that it had to happen 
eventually. Since Elvis Presley’s 
death in 1977, we have been del­
uged with specials, TV movies, 
biographies (both official and 
unofficial), evenaminiseries. And 
of course, there have been the 
periodical Elvis sightings; it seems 
like there should be a weekly 
column on it in the Enquirer.
Elvis has even made afterlife 
appearances on several television 
series in his own form and in — 
well, more supernatural ways. 
One that comes to mind was his 
guest role on Married. ..With Chil­
dren, when Peggy thought that 
one of the stains on Al’s under­
wear resembled Elvis’ face.
At any rate, it’s obvious that
—Television Review—
?'/2 ELVIS.Sunday, 8:30 pm, channel 4 (ABC).Weekly drama chronicling 
the early years in the King’s rise to fame (and Immortality?). Starring 
Michael St. Gerard (Elvis Presley), Billy Green Bush (Vernon Presley), 
Jordan Williams (Sam Phillips), and Jesse Dabson (Scotty Moore).
Elvis still has quite an effect on 
America, so a regular television 
series celebrating his life was 
probably inevitable. But I guess I 
had always hoped that it wouldn’t 
happen in my lifetime.
The series begins when the 
Great One is a teenager, appar­
ently out of high school and work­
ing for a living. The paycheck 
from his job as a truck driver is 
needed badly by his family. Al­
though Elvis’ father also works, 
he is forced to quit because of a
bad back. So the pressure is on 
Elvis to support his mother and 
father.
But (of course) Elvis doesn’t 
want to drive a truck all his life. 
Music is his first love. In the first 
episode, he must choose between 
working overtime or auditioning 
for the chance to play with two 
established musicians. Elvis 
makes the right choice, working 
the overtime but still managing 
to sing a tune with the two musi­
cians by the end of the program.
parts is parts.
Ci,JA8 I8nrP8u
Wnil fniA 
I8nrP8u.
Y' ms62
7ily Iuslr
7ily os4
but not when they're sexy
Scotlsexy body parts Yar< 
at Scotland Yard Feb. 16th
They — and a record company 
representative — are suitably 
impressed.
Michael St. Gerard actually 
does a pretty decent job portray­
ing Elvis. He bears a fairly close 
resemblance to the King (and, at 
times, an incredibly close resem­
blance). The show’s best scenes 
involve music, which isn’t sur­
prising. The excitement of Elvis’s 
music and the effect it had on 
young people are conveyed well.
Otherwise, the series is slow, 
boring, and predictable. The main 
problem is that we already know 
what will happen: eventually, 
Elvis is going to hit it big and 
become a major star. How many 
of us are going to tune in every 
week to see how he did it, day by 
day? Which leads us to another 
problem: pacing. The program
moves very slowly, looking at 
Elvis’ life in intricate detail. The 
first episode covers only a few 
days, and the following weeks 
promise to do the same. At least 
the producers won’t run out of 
material. Elvis’ estate is involved 
with the creative end of the show, 
which gives it an air of authentic­
ity. On the other hand, one has to 
wonder how his well-known prob­
lems with alcohol and drugs will 
be handled.
The production itself is of high 
quality. It is a decent period piece, 
portraying a small Southern town 
in the early fifties. But we’ve seen 
it all before. Youngman from poor 
family overcomes enormous ob­
stacles to reach success. Count­
less stories have this exact plot. 
The only difference is that this is 
Elvis.
ABC is counting on that differ­
ence to attract alot of viewers. It’s 
in a good time slot, following* 
America’s Funniest HomeVideos, 
a surprise hit. The audiencff ftir 
the two shows is the same —'an: 
older crowd who grew up with' the 
King.
Personally, I don’t think thisf, 
Elvis will be around for too long. 
My reasons? Fierce competition1 
from The Simpsons, one of the 
freshest and funniest shows on 
the air, plus a belief in the values 
of the American people. Surely* 
most of us have better things to do 
than watch, week in and week 
out, the story of a singer who’s1 
been dead for over twelve years' 
and still can’t rest in peace.
But, then, he might not be dead, 
at all. Heck, maybe he’s evSfilv 
creative consultant.
CMU Philharmonic performs Friday
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 G•
with tentative syndication in the 
United States. The program will 
consist of six one hour shows, each 
show highlighting a different 
Tchaikovsky symphony.
“It has been one of the most 
intense programs and the most 
stressful rehearsal performances 
thatl’ve ever been involved with,” 
says sophomore Nicole Brock- 
mann, principal viola. The stu­
dents involved in the project are 
practicing six hours a day, with 
Wednesdays and Sundays off. 
They are also expected to keep up 
with their regular course work.
Sally Wilcox, a graduate stu­
dent studyingthe violin, remarks, 
“I think it is well worth it, even 
though it is an infringement on 
our time, because we are working 
towards musical perfection.”
Although Delman must speak 
through an interpreter, there have 
not been many communication 
problems. Wilcox explained the 
students arenowused to Delman’s 
facial and body gestures.
Delman also did not feel the 
cultural and language differences 
interfered with his conducting. 
“When I conduct I am like-their 
teacher,” he said. “The mostbeau-
0slnrPnl pAb8uTi8AbNfnurnl )PsrsyunaP8u 
vl xrnAinl r8,Pli,inl 4nr,P8. .8M8unA Mib8s 6slrsu. n. rP8 mWc 
)PiAPnu6sli, u8P8nu.8.B
tiful thing about it is that while 
I’m teaching the students some­
thing they in turn are teaching 
me something.”
Dr. Thomas is honored to have 
Delman and RAI at CMU. “The 
Maestro is very demanding, has 
high standards, and is an excel­
lent musician.” Delman is help-: 
ing to spread the international; 
recognition that is important to; 
the Music Department. Thomas, 
hopes that the student body.wiljj 
realize the magnitude of ihia 
Friday’s concert and become pari 
of the documentary by attending.
Talking with jazz great David Benoit
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 G•
ten to some swinging good jazz, it 
just makes you feel good.
“That’s what I don’t understand 
about critics. Many of them think 
that jazz is such a serious music, 
but it isn’t,” laments Benoit. He 
says he sees the form as most ef­
fective when it is upbeat, when it 
communicates good feelings to the 
listener. The late jazz pianist Bill 
Evans, the musician Benoit cites 
as his greatest influence, dis­
played a talent for evoking up­
beat feelings in his music while 
simultaneously being very intel­
lectual about his performance.
“Bill Evans was very intellec­
tual as a player, but he was also 
very spiritual. When I would lis­
ten to a Bill Evans record, it would 
just relax me, it would put me 
into such a great space. He pulled 
me out of a lot of rough times 
when I was a struggling jazz mu­
sician in Hollywood. A lot of pian­
ists that I know are Bill Evans 
clones; I am not, I don’t try to 
sound like Bill Evans, though his 
music did have an effect on me.
“His wife actually came to one 
of my concerts about a month ago 
and had heard my album Waiting 
for Spring and called me up. It 
was such a lovely feeling; she had 
picked up that there was a feeling 
on my album similar to the music 
he played. I had gotten into play­
ing with, I guess, the same spiri­
tuality or emotion that he did.”
It was this emotionality that 
made Benoit’s concert last Thurs­
day night so special, because it 
extended itself to the fans who 
had packed Graffiti to hear the 
California jazzer play. Accompa­
nied by an all-star band, high­
lighted by the amazing solo work 
of saxophonist Eric Marienthal, 
guitarist Emily Remler, bassist
Steve Bailey, and drummer Dave 
Derge, Benoit took the enthusias­
tic crowd on an exciting voyage 
through jazz.
Besides accompanying Benoit 
live, Remler also contributed hefld 
amazing talents to Waiting foflP 
Spring. Benoit describes her rolfisT 
in this format as sort of cohesive| 
“She’s coming more from thetra-. 
ditional jazz place, so she adds si“1 
nice legitimacy to the music. She’i 
been real supportive in that d> 
rection. She’s been wanting to ge 
more into fusion and I’ve beei 
wanting to get more into straigh 
ahead. It’s been a nice experienci 
for both of us. ”
The experience, however, wa 
arguably in favor of the audience 
which was left at the end of tb 
concert wanting more. No matte 
what the critics may say, Bend 
is an honest crowd pleaser — h1 
entertains on his own terms,

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990111
CMU alumni relive the past, sans alcohol
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Around three in the morning 
/luring the Beaux Arts Ball, those 
people who could make it to the 
main floor of CFA squeezed to­
gether to see the end of the cos­
tume contest. Several nominees 
had already been introduced, and 
CFA: Dean Lowry Burgess took 
^he” Stage to announce that the 
winner was the Berlin Wall.
Following Burgess’ announce­
ment, six pieces of grey foam cov­
ered in German graffiti began 
jumping up and down with the 
thrill of victory. They climbed onto 
the stage to show off their cos­
tume and make their acceptance 
speech. The pieces could be linked 
together or tom apart into six 
separate units.
It turned out that only half of 
the people inside this elaborate 
get-up were actually current stu­
dents at Carnegie Mellon. The 
other half were alumni who re­
turned to school for this wild bash 
called the Beaux Arts Ball.
Two of the grey foam sections 
went to the Ball back in 1985. 
Andrew Moss said he returned to 
the Ball because “I was here last 
time and it was a blast.” He called 
this year’s Ball “Seventy percent 
as good [as the last Ball]. It’s 
good, but not quite as good.”
Moss explained that the major 
difference between this year’s Ball 
and the one in 1985 was atmos­
phere. Pointing around the room,
he said, “If you look around right 
now, everyone’s standing still. 
Last time everyone was moving, 
everyone was dancing.... Last 
time, every room you went into 
there was a band. This year, it 
just seems like you have to go 
search for them.”
Anne-Marie Lubenau gradu­
ated last year, but returned for 
the Ball because she “went to the 
last one and it was a really great 
experience.” She added that 
compared to the last Ball, this one
seemed to have something miss­
ing. “The spirit’s still the same, 
but the Ball’s still not quite the 
same.”
One of the major differences 
between this year's Ball and last 
was the no alcohol rule. Alumna 
Elaine Erne believes that this 
showed “that they don’t respect 
alumni. And yet, they want our 
donations.” She explained that 
she thought the school could have 
thought up ways to serve alcohol 
to those of legal drinking age.
“Why couldn’t they just set up 
certain rooms with only one door 
in and out where people could 
show their ID and get a drink?” 
Erne attended the 1985 Ball 
and said that in comparison to 
that Ball, this one had “a lot more 
food and a lot more entertain­
ment.”
Yvonne Fetterman added, “It 
would be nice if there was alcohol, 
but I don’t mind it.... The food 
looks great. I guess we’ll be eating 
,slrile8b sl any8 G/X
.Security 
deters Ball 
vandalism
ty MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan News Editor
Saturday night’s Beaux Arts 
Ball was a far cry from the 1985 
Ball — the one that did over 
(110,000 of damage to CFA and 
jeopardized the future of the Ball. 
Incidents weren’t really the norm 
for the Ball whose predecessor 
was described as being “like the 
fall of Rome” by Carnegie Mellon 
Police Sergeant William Ricci. 
Carnegie Mellon officials were 
oised for action. Securing the 
luilding were twelve CMU Police 
ifficers, three security guards, 
d four CMU Police supervisors, 
p addition to Carnegie Mellon 
’olice Chief James LaPaglia.
In addition to the small army 
from Campus Police, Vice Presi­
dent for Business Affairs Fred 
Rogers, Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy, and Assistant 
fean of Student Affairs Ron 
Campana couldbe found wander­
ing the halls of CFA at various 
times Saturday and Sunday, as 
well;;as several others with a 
vested interest in CFA’s integ- 
iiy.
If you looked in the command 
center that security set up in CFA 110 after you passed through the 
entrance flanked by two police 
officers,you’dfindstretchers, cots, 
i id a host of personnel from CMU 
Emergency Medical Services 
prepared for anything.
Everyone attending the Ball 
entered through the entrance 
facing Frew Street. Bands, cater­
ing personnel, and members of 
the press corps entered through a 
special security entrance in the 
basement that faces the CFA 
parking area.
While people could come and go 
¿¦eely from the Ball between 10 
rai and midnight, no one was 
admitted to the Ball after mid­
night; if you left the Ball after 
midnight, you wouldn’t be read­
mitted.
i' Before the ball began, the Beaux 
arts Ball Committee sealed off all 
areas that were restricted—those 
in which people’s personal belong­
ings or valuable equipment could 
be damaged or taken. The com­
mittee, in cooperation with Cam- 
ptos Police, set up what Director 
of Security J ames LaPaglia called 
course of action matrix” to help 
officers deal with various situ­
ations that might arise in the 
^firse of the ball.
Ball organizers, attempting to 
,slrile8b sl any8 G/X
v liyPr nr 
rP8 onAA OOO
fsah Lunbenr8 .reb8lr C,sr oussJ. ys8. nAA ser 4irP Pi. 
8An2sunr8 ,s.re68B
WibbA8h Iu8.P6nl bun6n .reb8lr EAJ 1ny8A ys8. ls.8HrsH 
ls.8 4irP .saPs6su8 bun6n .reb8lr 0n,J prP8uiby8B
osrrs6 A8Trh (l8 sT rP8 Psrr8.r .asr. i. rP8 mnASa.s fuis_ 
4P8u8 rPi. xlbinl ,Pi8T .88. Ps4 As4 P8 ,nl ysB
osrrs6 uiyPrh 1sr 8M8uSsl8 ,seAb PnlbA8 nAA rP8 8U,ir868lr 
rPuseyPser rP8 8M8lilyB
gBvB t8lb8u.slNfnurnl )PsrsyunaP8u 5 fnb gs,J.rnb8uNfnurnl
The big 
report: 
no real 
trouble
By A.S. GOLDMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Thirteen people were trampled to death 
last Saturday night at the Beaux Arts 
Ball, during CFA Dean Lowry Burgess’ 
rousing “Let the Ball prosper” speech. 
Paramedics described the scene as “grim” 
and “yucky,” and commented that many 
of the bodies were “squished-up real bad.” 
An investigation into the matter is un­
der way.
Okay, okay — it’s a lie. Nobody got 
trampled; several giddy couples were 
observed getting, uh, “squished-up” in 
rooms on the upper floors, but they 
weren’t in need of the paramedics. As a 
matter of fact, the only incidents to re­
port by way of injuries are a few bruised 
bottoms caused by the slippery stairs, 
and perhaps an elbow-in-the-jaw or two 
on the dance floor during the Royal 
Crescent Mob’s high-volume perform­
ance. That’s it, though. No bodies thrown 
from the fourth floor, no naked LSD 
fiends jumping through glass doors, no 
gunfights, nothing. Why am I upset by 
this?
The Beaux Arts Ball: An event so noto­
rious for its flagrant hedonism, debauch­
ery, and outright narcotic-induced lu­
nacy that, to quote a friend, “Caligula 
would had blushed.” The unwritten rule 
for past balls was “Booze on the first 
floor, drugs on the second floor, sex on 
the third floor, and...” I forget what was 
on the fourth floor, but let’s say for 
argument’s sake that it was more sex.
Anyway, people would drop like flies at 
these previous balls, usually due to the 
drugs and alcohol, but occasional be­
cause of the exhausting sexual athletics. 
Injuries and overdoses were everywhere. 
And to add to the cacophony, the word 
“organization” had the same impact as, 
say, the word “sober.” Acts were re-sched­
uled, cancelled, stoned or ignored, and 
security was just lax enough to allow for 
about $40,000 worth of damage, last ball 
alone (This figure varies from $15,000 to 
$50,000). It was with these, uh, facts in 
mind that I accepted my assignment: 
Seek out disaster and report on it.
In order to do this efficiently, I spent 
the night tagging along with the Beaux 
Arts Ball brass: Mariko Braswell, chair; 
Dave Schroeder, public relations; Terry 
Lee, security; and Murphy McDonald 
,slrile8b sl any8 G/R
Hired help gets a big kick out of the Beaux Arts Ball
wby MICHELLE JONES
tartan Staffwriter
•Cinderella's trip to the Ball was a pretty 
fleeent deal. Not only was she given the 
Wght off, she also got new clothes, state 
“'- the art transportation, a support staff, 
glass pumps, and a prince.
The people working at the Beaux Arts 
Ball didn’t get such fringe benefits; on 
the surface it might seem that the cater- 
yjs, coat checkers, custodians and secu­
rity officers only got a long night of work. 
However, there were some among them 
who also managed to have a good time. 
Catering services for the Beaux Arts 
sail were performed by the Fluted 
^shroom, who, contrary to popular 
-lief, did not cater the last Ball. How- 
eVer, you may be familiar with their
Fi ovv oAA.c6C4 C,e 68s,C Io6 4u..C,viS DeL
4M8Ce C,e toAC C,oC rMe.Mve zWeIe- eoC86s v8Ee
M8s4yP
style, as they handle the food needs of 
SEI.
Fluted Mushroom owner Peg Deise- 
roth said she enjoyed herself and the 
“young people ... and costumes.” 
Deiseroth’s been in the business for ten 
years, but still found this project some­
what “scary” due to the logistics con­
cerned. She sarcastically mentioned 
plans to write a book entitled Horror 
Stories of the Catering Business, which 
she envisions as half anecdotes and half
recipes.
Not surprisingly, events on the scale of 
Beaux Arts are not the norm for the 
service. Standard projects include large 
weddings, private parties, and other 
affairs of that ilk. Deiseroth stressed 
that regardless of the size of the project, 
careful attention to detail is essential, 
and the job must be done well.
In spite of the time and effort expended 
by Deiseroth and her staff, they seemed 
to be enjoying themselves. Beaux Arts
was appreciably different and “more 
original,” according to Carl Morosetti, 
who was on hand to help; while Mo­
rosetti isn’t actually employed by the 
Fluted Mushroom, he is frequently re­
cruited by Deiseroth.
By all accounts the night ran smoothly, 
despite the fact that “people [were] eat­
ing like pigs,” according to Louise Fern, 
a Fluted Mushroom staff member. Keep­
ing the tables stocked proved to be quite 
a challenge. However, this task was 
helped along by a fairly polite crowd.
The coat checkers also got a workout at 
the Ball. Operating out of Kresge thea­
ter, they were subject to both the music 
and crowd of the main stage. In addition 
to their coat check duties, they handled 
sales of memorabilia. Theirs was a “tough 
and exhausting” job, says checker Cathy
Bell. Fatigue aside, the job was “inter­
esting,” and Bell says she would proba­
bly do it all again if given the opportu­
nity. From where she stood, “people were 
definitely having a good time.” Bell her­
self enjoyed the music and costumes.
And those people who stamped our 
hands and tickets as we we entered? 
Their contract may be closest to 
Cinderella’s; they weren’t on duty after 
midnight. Attempts to locate these work­
ers led the Beaux Arts committee to a 
local temporary agency; the arrangement 
worked well, according to supervisors.
For the most part, it seems that those 
working this Saturday night graveyard 
shift found themselves caught up in the 
excitement and energy of the Ball. And 
while it was no fairy tale, it was an 
adventure.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
1988
The highlight of the evening: 'Braswell looks tired’
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 GAA
and Ed Bucholtz, entertainment. 
If something catastrophic was 
going to happen, these were the 
people who would lead me to the 
action. If there was any. Which 
there wasn’t.
Headline: “Beaux Arts Ball 
Scandal — Nothing Goes Wrong 
And Nobody Gets Hospitalized!” 
After trailing the big cheese 
around all night, this is the best I 
can do in terms of sensational­
ism. Anything that could have 
gone wrong, didn’t.
When, at the beginning of the 
evening, Braswell told me she 
expected the ball to be “pretty 
smooth,” I snickered to myself at 
her self-assurance; surely she 
would eat her words nibble by
disastrous nibble as a night of 
organizational chaos reduced the 
CFA building to a pile of Risorgi- 
mentean rubble. Of course, she 
was absolutely right.
Braswell, Lee, Schroeder, 
McDonald, and Bucholtz had the 
scene under control. Braswell, a 
fifth-year architecture student, 
was quite cool for someone in 
charge of such a huge party, and 
found time to be social while keep­
ing an eye on things. Lee, whose 
job it was to enforce the “No Alco­
hol Allowed” rule, found little 
trouble with the security, and had 
only ejected one unlucky inebri­
ate the last I spoke with him. 
Schroeder fulfilled his public re­
lations responsibilities by taking 
taking a few snapshots of Dean
btCeI CIo8v86s C,e U8s A,ee4e oI.c6D 
ovv 68s,CS C,84 84 C,e Ue4C B Ao6 D. 86 
CeIu4 .t 4e64oC8.6ov84u( b6iC,86s 
C,oC A.cvD ,ole s.6e WI.6sS D8D6PC(
and Mrs. Burgess and by being an 
all-around congenial guy. They 
were all so calm it was sickening.
McDonald and Bucholtz, enter­
tainment guys, performed the 
impossible — they kept the 
twenty-one live acts (“live” in a 
general sense) on or close to sched­
ule. McDonald commented on the 
acoustics, attributing the high 
level of sound quality to the large 
crowds who were “absorbing all
the sound.” Bucholtz was a bit 
tense during the performance of 
the gospel choir, but both he and 
McDonald kept cool when they 
found out that the bass player for 
one of the bands was too drunk to 
perform (“He’s comatose — too 
much scotch,” says an undaunted 
McDonald). When questioned 
about how things went at the end 
of the evening, McDonald 
mumbled something about a “rock
and roll juggernaut” and went 
back to absorbing the sounds of 
the Volcano Suns.
Just so nobody thinks the Ball 
ran perfectly, I have compiled a 
list of all the dirt I could get my 
hands on, hearsay included (all 
times approximate):
11:00 pm— Schroeder can’t find 
his notebook.
11:25 pm— McDonald can’t 
make out walkie-talkie message.
11:50 pm— Braswell harassed 
by overzealous Mondrian paint­
ing.
12:10 am'— Dean Burgess cuts 
off gospel choir after one song to 
make his “Let the Ball prosper” 
speech.
12:20 am—Royal CrescentMob 
must delay performance because
“Rick the Roadie” is out getting, 
er, “refreshments” for the band.
12:30 am— Lee slips on stairs 
while delivering water to the 
stage.
1:00 am—• Schroeder relates 
story of fire-eater spitting flante 
at Dean Burgess.
1:45 am— Braswell looks tired.
2:30 am— Coat check atten­
dants report that “people are los­
ing coats.”
3:45 am— Food supply neai^r 
exhausted.
Yeah, it is a pretty pathetic list, 
but it will have to do. Things really 
didn’t go wrong enough. There is 
hope for disaster in our time, 
though, as Mariko suggested thJt 
the next Ball will be in two years. 
Let’s all keep our fingers crossed.
mAs,J4i.8 Tus6 n2sM8h
0elisu nur 6nYsu 08l vu.,srr Pnly. .s68 .ru8n68u. il au8anunrisl 
Tsu mnASa.s fuisB
xl uss6 R/R n ruis sT nu,Pir8,r. nu8 Pnub nr 4suJ bi.n..862Aily n 
fF .8r | Tsu b8,sunrislB
0elisu Gikki8 Wsy8A y8A. rP8 TsS8u AiyPr.B
0s.P GSll rnJ8. ,s66nlb sT vo f8,Pw. .8r ea il rP8 6nil PnAAB
fPs6n. 1i,PsA.Nfnurnl )Psrs pbirsu
A Beaux Arts timelineBBB
The events leading up to last weekend’s Beaux Arts Ball can be traced 
back to last year’s on-again, off-again, finally-aborted attempt at a Ball.
r8Urh Cr84nur G8Mil8d yunaPi,h ts4bS )i8u,8
788J sT I82uenuS /Xh f8lrnriM8 
aAnl. Tsu sTTH,n6ae. onAAh Wnu,P 
R3 nr W8rusasAB mS8ur nyu88. rs 
yiM8 6sl8S Tsu runl.asurnrislB
_ I82uenuS /;h Creb8lr (62eb.6nl Wi,Pn8A WeuaPS_ F) oiAA 
pAAisrr_ F) Iu8b Esy8u._ nlb Gn628ur 688r rs nynil bi.,s. 
6sMily onAA sTTH,n6ae.B o8neU vur. ,s66irr88 688r. Anr8urs 
suynlik8 rP8 l84 onAAB
B 788J sT I82uenuS R’h “vAA .S.r86. nu8 ys_" .nS. suynlik8u 0iAA 
_/ Ee2SB fi,J8r aui,8 .8r nr ~X3B onAA yiM8l ~/;9 2eby8r Tus6 
Creb8lr vTTniu.B 7nAr8u .nS. !33 ri,J8r. 6e.r 28 .sAbB
Telbily»" nlb “gi,JPn. 
seu 2nAAB” )usr8.r 
suynlik8u 1su6 Gnu.sl 
,Ani6. P8—b “unrP8uPnM8 
öo8neU vur.¡ sTTH,n6ae. 
rPnl lsr nr nAAB"
x
(,rs28u Rzh (uynlikily
,s66irr88 ,Pss.8. rP868 
Extremesd nb6ili.runrisl nlb 
suynlik8u. bi.nyu88 sM8u4P8rP8u 
nA,sPsA 4iAA 28 nAAs48b nr onAAB v 
.asJ8.a8u.sl Tsu mIv g8nl 
WAbnli .rnr8._ “öt8¡ 4iAA lsr 
.nl,risl nlSrPily 2er nl nA,sPsAH 
Tu88 8M8lrBBBB fPi. i. rP8 slAS 4nS 
rP8 8M8lr 4iAA s,,euB" onAA 
.,P8beA8b Tsu Wnu,P //B
788J sT Wnu,P qh fi,J8r .nA8. Anyd ,s66irr88 ,sl.ib8u. 
sa8lily onAA rs 8lriu8 ,n6ae.B Gn628ur ,Ani6. nr A8n.r q-X3 
ri,J8r. l88b rs 28 .sAb Tsu onAA rs 2u8nJ 8M8lB “x—6 lsr u8nAAS Tsu 
ösa8lily rP8 onAA¡_ 2er ir—. nlsrP8u rPily 48 PnM8 rs bs rs PnM8 
rP8 onAA_" .nS. Gn628urB
i Wnu,P /qh/•;• onAA ,nl,8AA8bB (lAS /!ri,J8r. PnM8 288l .sAbd 
,s66irr88 Pn. .a8lr ~R333B 7nAr8u .nS._ “78 l88b rs .~ur 
rPilJily n2ser rP8 o8neU vur. onAA Tsu l8Ur S8nuB fP8 onAA l88b. 
rs ys 2n,J rs mIvB”
0nlenuS X3h g8nl sT Creb8lr vTTniu. ounb8l 7nAr8u bi.rui2er8. 
686s ,nl,8AAily o8neU vur._ ,irily “rP8 6nlny868lr sT 
nA,sPsA nlb buey." nlb b8.,ui2ily rP8 onAA n. “nl 
el,slrusAAn2A8 8M8lrB"
I82uenuS Rh o8neU vur. suynlikily ,s66irr88 A8nul. onAA Pn. 
288l ,nl,8AA8bd ,s66irr88 68628u fusS Gn628ur ,Ani6. 
rP8 ,s66irr88 “Pnb ,s68 rs nl nyu8868lr ir 4n. ysily rs 
28 sl ,n6ae. nlb buSB"
I82uenuS qh Creb8lr vTTniu. 688r. 4irP 
.reb8lr. il nl nrr86ar rs Tilb n 
,s6aus6i.8B
I82uenuS ’h Creb8lr C8lnr8 an..8. 
u8.sAerisl ,slb86lily ,nl,8AAnrislB 
)usas.8b 2S mIv—. xlyuib ous628uy_ ir 
.rnr8. “48 Mi84 ir örP8 ,nl,8AAnrisl¡ n. 
nl il.eAr rs rP8 ,Pnun,r8u nlb 
.8l.i2iAiri8. sT rP8 .reb8lr. il rP8 
msAA8y8 sT Iil8 vur.B”

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990L13
o8neU vur. xlb8U
Compiled by STEPHEN GLICKER
Number of Beaux Arts Ball tickets sold: 1220
Number ol tickets sold for last year’s cancelled Ball: 14
Number of total CMU students, fall semester: 5855
Number of live trees at the Ball: S
Number of dead trees: 30
Number of couches: 12
Number of door prizes: 12
Ratio of plastic inflatable men to Beaux Arts Ball 
Committee members: 1 to I 
Miles of cable used by AB Tech: 25 
Number of bands which performed: 21 
Number of those not scheduled at least one week in 
advance: 4 
Square inches of lighting gel used: 1372 
Number of hours it took to put up decorations: 2S 
Number of hours it took to take them down: 10 
Number of “incidents” at the Ball, according to CMU 
Police Chief James LaPaglia: S 
Number of Security officers: 12
At sound check, the number of decibels the speakers 
produced at 26 feet: 117 
The world’s record for the loudest rock band at 50 
feet: 120
Number of yards of cloth used: 400 
Number of yards of duct tape used: 1200 
Number of pictures taken by The Tartan: 750 
Number used: 16
Number of times the word “Risorgimento” appears 
on Ball matches: 1 
Number of times it appears in the program: 0
Sources: Hope Johnson, Joshua Lynn, and Dave 
Schroeder.
It was a party and we won’
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 Gx
There is food and drink to be 
found at several tables, and there 
a hint of smoke in the air, fla­
vored with the tang of clove ciga­
rettes. There is noise and laugh­
ter and the scent of humanity, 
dancer’s sweat. There is color and 
light, and the inevitable flash­
bulbs and notepads of photogra­
phers and reporters in search of a 
story, a catchy image and a few 
well-chosen words.
Some of the images of the Beaux 
Arts Ball can be seen on this page 
and elsewhere in this issue of The 
Tartan, and almost certainly in 
his year’s Thistle yearbook. As 
or the words, we paraphrase 
¡omeone who said, on the eve of 
iis fraternity’s being raided by 
he LCB two years ago, “It was a 
arty, and we lost.”
This time, it was a party and we 
yon.
\isorgimento!
There is something insidiously 
ieerful about the 1990 Beaux 
&rts Ball, some element of opti­
mism that remains from last 
year’s cancellation. That strange 
word on everyone’s lips means 
ftebirth, another try, a second 
chance, an opportunity.
If the 1990 Ball is a rebirth, 
then the baby is thriving. You can 
see it on the faces of the dancers, 
in the costumes of the masquer­
ade. You can hear it in the music, 
in the conversation. You can feel 
it in the air.
Oh, yes. Beaux Arts is very
much alive and well, thank you. 
Dance! Dance!
If the 1990 Ball is a rebirth, 
then it is also a redemption. The 
stigma of CFA’s near-devastation 
during the 1985 Ball interfered 
with plans for, and eventually 
forced the cancellation of, last 
year’s scheduled Ball.
This year’s Ball planning be­
gan with an edict that had never 
before been handed down: If the 
Ball was to be held in CFA, or 
indeed held at all, there would be 
no alcohol whatsoever.
We scoffed. Such a thing was 
impossible. Nobody would come 
to a dry Beaux Arts Ball. The 
whole idea was ludicrous. It could 
never happen.
Saturday night. 1200 people. 
Smooth as silk. Triumphantly 
successful. Virtually problem- 
free. So much for skepticism.
Give us a song!
There are people drinking at 
the Beaux Arts Ball, despite the 
ban on alcohol, despite the strong 
presence of campus security, 
despite everything.
There are people drunk, stoned, 
and/or wasted, and it shows, but 
unlike previous Balls these people 
are in the minority, and unlike 
previous Balls these people do 
not take the occasion of the Beaux 
Arts Ball as license to wreck CFA. 
It is wild, but it is, for a change, 
not completely put of control. It is 
fun, but it is, for a change, not
completely Bacchanalian.
Look at that!
From the first notes of the brass 
quintet to the final band’s last 
chords, the entire Ball was an 
experience in sensation.
Visually, a pageant of the fan­
tastic sweeps constantly by as 
attendees turn their creative 
energies towards spectacular 
costumes, each seemingly more 
outlandish than the one previous.
Notably, the Ball features five 
segments of the Berlin Wall; the 
post-apocalyptic nuclear family of 
TV’s The Simpsons; a dinner set­
ting of knife, fork, and spoon; 
several renditions of 18th cen­
tury French aristocracy a la 
Dangerous Liaisons] innumerable 
approaches in the representation 
of Black & White, which (since 
the Ball of the same name) has 
become a Beaux Arts standard; 
famous and infamous characters 
out of history, myth, and fiction; 
and others various and sundry.
Not to be outdone, the decora­
tions are nearly as bizarre as the 
attendees. Gauze, plastic, and 
paper drape hallways and stair­
cases spotted with couches and 
lounges. Faux “windows” of duct 
tape and posterboard look out on 
imaginary cartoon landscapes. 
Projectors filled with abstract 
slides spill their insubstantial 
beams out onto the walls, with 
the remote controls taped to notes 
that say, “Push me.” A cadre of 
inflatable men inexplicably floats 
suspended above the ground, as if
caught in a Kansas tornado. 
Everywhere you look, the light is 
a different color.
The atmosphere is charged with 
energy, tension—sexual tension, 
perhaps? A couple embraces fran­
tically during a band’s set on the 
third floor; no one gives them a 
second look. Pairs of people are 
lodged strategically in stairwells 
and alcoves, on lounges and 
benches.
Four security personnel respond 
to a report of a stuck elevator; the 
two people “trapped” inside are 
subsequently freed, and they walk 
off looking half stunned, half 
sheepish.
Breakfast?
As the early morning hours roll 
around, bagels and cream cheese 
make the rounds of tired Ball- 
goers. The crowds start to file out 
starting at 2:30 am or so, and by 
4:30 almost no one remains save 
for stragglers and the Beaux Arts 
and AB Tech strike crews, and of 
course a few stunned ABM staf­
fers.
As the crowds thin and the 
decorations are removed, a hu­
manoid figure— one of the inflat­
able men — falls from his perch 
and hurtles past a surprised group 
of first-floor onlookers. Someone 
nearby remarks, “What a shame. 
He had so much to live for.”
That he did — if he hadn’t 
“jumped,” he might still be around 
for the next Beaux Arts Ball. If it 
turns out as well as this one, it’ll 
be a Ball worth celebrating.
Security helps keep 
the Ball under control
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 GAA
pre-empt a repeat of the last ball, 
made it known that the spirit of 
;he ball would direct the energies 
)f those in attendance in other 
iirections.
“We’ve been over everything to 
inake sure we have a good eve- 
ling,” said CFA Dean Lowry 
Burgess.
; The activity that dominated the 
light for those who spent count­
ess hours of planning and prepa­
ration, though, was smiling.
Early on, indications were that 
the night would be uneventful — 
even enjoyable — for the officers 
in attendance.
“I don’t see any problems so 
far.” said officer Don Campbell.
: “I think it’s going to be a nice 
light,” officer Marty Wright pre­
dicted early on.
Later in the evening, Vice Presi­
dent for Business Affairs Fred 
Rogers observed that the Ball was 
la lot of fun.”
Those in attendance at the Ball 
didn’t seem to mind the precau­
tions — some even thought they 
were a good idea. Walt Koetke, a 
junior social science major, didn’t 
anticipate really tight security at 
the event. “It was more than I 
expected, but I guess it’s a good 
thing,” he said.
Koetke didn’t think that they 
got in the way, though. “They’re 
into the spirit... the theme of the 
evening,” he said. “They’re danc­
ing.”
“It wasn’t oppressive,” said 
Janet Norton, a sophomore di­
recting major. “From what I’ve 
seen, it’s being done well.” Norton 
described an incident that hap­
pened just after she arrived at the 
Ball. “I saw a guy’s hat go up in 
flames. It was great that [police 
officers] were right there.”
The officers that were “right 
there” were officer Elmer Keck 
and Sergeant William Kozikow- 
ski. Kozikowski said that he no-
i
The Upstage to get 
a slew of new shows
x è
v .8,euirS yenub ,P8,J. ri,J8r. n.
ticed a man wearing a hat that 
was hanging on his back. As the 
man moved near a candle the hat 
strayed into the candle’s flame.
Instantly, Kozikowski and offi­
cer Elmer Keck dove onto the man
fnb gs,J.rnb8uNfnurnl gnuJuss6 Wnlny8u 
anurSys8u. 8lr8u rP8 onAiB
and tried to prevent him from 
being burned by the hat. Kozikow­
ski said that “his moustache was 
singed” by the burning hat, but 
other than that and a cut on his 
hand, no one was injured.
Alumni return to experience the Ball again
,slrile8b Tus6 any8 GAA
n lot more.” Fetterman did not 
jittend the last Ball because, as 
she put it, “I was being a good 
i,ttle student.” She said that this 
Sail was all that she had expected,
i.Maria Cole, another section of 
¦he Berlin Wall, also was a stu­
dent in 1985 and chose not to go to 
he Ball back then. There was no 
special reason, she “just didn’t 50.” Now that her friends have
told her what the last Ball was 
like, she says she feels a little 
regret that she didn’t show at her 
first chance.
As the Ball began to wind down, 
Dean Burgess remarked that he 
would like to see the Ball happen 
“once every two years. I like how 
the whole college gets together.”
Burgess said he would like to 
see students to be able to help 
each other with the Ball, but under
the current system, every one who 
went to the last Ball has gradu­
ated. “If there were a Ball every 
two years,” Burgess said “there 
would be an accumulated learn­
ing that passes down between the 
students.”
Although there was severe 
damage to the building during 
the last Ball, Burgess still sup­
ported the fight to have a Ball this 
year. “I think everybody here
wanted to have a Ball again and 
there was a much greater under­
standing of the issues involved to 
have such a thing,” he said.
Burgess said he had faith in the 
students and those in charge of 
the Ball from the beginning. He 
did not suspect that there would 
be any problem with more dam­
ages to the college. “We’ve taken a 
lot of precautions. I’m not nerv­
ous. ... Everyone’s been fantastic.”
MUSIC IN REVIEW
by Dan Bidwa
The Heretics played their last 
show as the Heretics last Friday. 
The breakup is supposedly due to 
personal differences within the 
band (supposedly only because I 
don’t know for sure; the band’s re- 
volving-door rhythm section has 
been showing the band’s less than 
congeniality for a couple of years 
now). Omnivore, the band’s forth­
coming LP should still be on the 
way in the next month or so.
Speaking of Get Hip (In-The- 
Know Hidden Hint #1: the Here­
tics LP is on Get Hip), the Cynics’ 
new LP, Rock n’ Roll, was re­
cently compared favorably to the 
Iron City Houserockers’ second 
LP by one of Pittsburgh’s Two 
Completely Different Daily News- 
papers. While I’m not sure 
whether this is supposed to be 
good, the fact that either one of 
the two biggies deigned to notice 
the LP at all, much less give it a 
favorable review, is a change for 
the better. (The fact that they had 
to bring the lameass Houserock­
ers into the conversation shows 
that they still have a fair ways to
go.) (In-The-Know Hidden Hint 
#2: for some obscure reason, many 
people consider the Iron City 
Houserockers to be the best band 
ever from Pittsburgh, or at least 
the only one they’ve ever heard of. 
This seems to be limited to people 
from Pittsburgh, since I’ve seen 
Houserockers albums in cutout 
bins all over the country.)
By the way, you’re missing out 
if you don’t have the new Cynics 
album. It’s better than any of their 
other LPs, and you need to own it. 
If you don’t believe me, go check 
them out at the Upstage tomor­
row night. They’re probably the 
best band in Pittsburgh right now, 
and you should go see them now 
while you still can. (They’ll be 
going on a tour of the States some 
time soon, and a tour of the Con­
tinent some time later, or maybe 
the other way around — the two 
have been fluctuating pretty regu­
larly as of late. Regardless, they’ll 
be out of town for a couple months 
at least.)
Upcoming stuff: The Young 
Gods, Holy Cow, and Red Temple 
Spirits will be at the Upstage on 
Thursday Feb. 22 for an all ages 
show; the Art Ensemble of Chi­
cago will be at the Fulton Theatre 
on Saturday, Feb. 24. More on 
both of these shows next week.
(In-The-Know Hidden Hint #3: 
the Clarks suck. Really.)
Dan Bidwa is a senior writing 
major, a senior staffwriter, and 
all that jive.
788J sT (,rs28u X/h Rules and regulations of Ball ratified by 
students and administration. Date set for February 10,1990. 
Theme Risorgimento chosen. Attendance limited to CFA 
students, faculty, staff, alumni, and guests. Tickets set at $30 
for students and $35 for others.
I82uenuS •h At q pm 
CFA is closed for 
decorations.
1990
rsl8 /3h Walter resigns; 
Murphy becomes acting dean 
pf Student Affairs.
Ce668u /•;•h Midani
resigns as dean, goes on 
sabbatical; Lowry Burgess 
named new dean.
(,rs28u R3h New Ball committee submits document 
to Student Affairs outlining “rules and regulations” 
of a new Ball. Burgess publicly supports Ball, saying, 
"I don’t see anybody who’s against it.... It has to be 
the right way." Decision made that there will be no 
alcohol at Ball.
788J sT 0nlenuS /zh Tickets 
for Risorgimento go on sale. 
All students eligible to 
purchase tickets. Enter­
tainment announced. Tickets 
$31 for students and $38 for 
others.
I82uenuS /3h 10 pm.
Risorgimento!

---------------------------------------------------

*~¡ 14 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellon’s favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, chan­
nel 11 (NBC). While promoting the 
book Good Girls I Bad Boys, author 
Lilith and talk-show audience women 
throw themselves atbaddestboy Sam.
CHINA BEACH. Wednesday at 
10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). McMurphy 
faces an emotional and ethical battle 
when she delivers Vinnie’s buddy from 
death but he falls into a terminal 
coma, and Frankie is mistakenly put 
in charge of a squad of grizzled grunts.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. Wed­
nesday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). The 
new and improved “Doc” Doogie is 
just about as cool as a guy can get, 
thanks to fashion advice from the 
super-cool Griffin, who also thinks 
it’s rad when Doogie “borrows” his 
father’s BMW.
GROWING PAINS. Wednesday 
at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Carol tests 
the limits of the judicial system after 
she’s arrested while test-driving 
Mike’s jalopy.
LA LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). A comic charges 
his comedy-writer ex-wife with heck­
ling him on stage, and she accuses 
him of stealing her jokes; a divorcée 
sues her ex for years of abuse, but her
courtroom experience leaves her feel­
ing more abused; and Kelsey wages 
war on Rosalind.
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednesday at 
10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Sam is a 
Native American who helped his 
grandfather escape from a nursing 
home, but now has to help find a way 
for him to die with dignity.
ROSEANNE. Tuesday at 9 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). Roseanne cajoles 
Dan into joining her in a vigorous 
weight-loss campaign involving dras­
tic measures — such as exercise.
THIRTYSOME THING. Tuesday 
at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Melissa 
fears she’s created a yuppie monster 
when she pushes Lee to get a job at 
DAA, and she’s even more scared 
when she realizes she got her mad- 
scientist manipulations from her 
father.
WISEGUY. Wednesday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Vinnie goes under­
cover as deputy sheriff of a vice-rid- 
den Northwest town controlled by a 
recluse.
THE WONDER YEARS. Tuesday 
at 8:30 pm, channel 4 (ABC). On 
Valentine’s Day, Kevin is set adrift in 
a leaky boat on the sea of love, where 
he flounders trying to win back the 
affections of Winnie.
Special Programs
DIRTY DANCING. Tuesday at 9
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Patrick Swayze 
and Jennifer Grey star in this 1987 
box-office hit film about the romance 
between a dance instructor and a 
guest at a ’60s Catskills resort. Also 
starring Cynthia Rhodes, Jerry Or- 
bach, and Jane Brucker.
THE ENFORCER. Thursday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (WPGH). Clint 
Eastwood stars as police inspector 
“Dirty Harry” Callahan, who goes 
after Vietnam vets terrorizing San 
Francisco. Also starring Tyne Daly 
and Harry Guardino.
GREASE. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). The one and only 
original movie-musical; an adapta­
tion of the Broadway show about love 
and life at Ry dell High. Starring John 
Travolta, Olivia Newton-John, Stock- 
ard Channing, Jeff Conaway, Didi 
Conn, Frankie Avalon, and Eve Ar­
den.
THE PRINCESS BRIDE. Friday 
at 8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). A fairy 
tale/adventure about a beautiful 
young woman and her one true love. 
The movie promises, and delivers, 
“fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, 
giants, monsters, chases, escapes, 
true love, and miracles.” A film not to 
be missed. Starring Robin Wright, 
Cary Elwes, Chris Sarandon, Andre 
the Giant, Mandy Patinkin, Christo­
pher Guest, Billy Crystal, and Carol 
Kane. Directed by Rob Reiner.
Cable Programs
BAND OF THE HAND. Friday at 
9:30 pm, HBO, action. Starring 
Stephen Lang and Michael Carmine. 
Rated R.
BLAZING SADDLES. Wednes­
day at 11 pm, HBO, comedy. Starring 
Mel Brooks, Cleavon Little, Gene 
Wilder, and Harvey Korman. Rated 
R.
CUJO. Sunday 11 pm, HBO, hor­
ror. Starring Dee Wallace and Daniel 
Hugh-Kelly. Rated R.
DIRTY HARRY. Early Thursday 
morning at 2 am, HBO, action. Star­
ring Clint Eastwood, Andy Robinson, 
and Harry Guardino. Rated R.
THE FLY. Tuesday at 8 pm, Cine- 
max, horror. Starring Jeff Goldblum 
and Geena Davis. Rated R.
THE FLY H. Tuesday at 10 pm, 
Cinemax, horror. Starring Eric Stoltz 
and Daphne Zuniga.
RUNNING SCARED. Early Sat­
urday morning at 2:45 am, Cinemax, 
comedy. Starring Gregory Hines, Billy 
Crystal, and Jimmy Smits. Rated R.
TWILIGHT ZONE — THE 
MOVIE. Saturday at noon, Cinemax, 
suspense. Starring John Lithgow, 
Dan Aykroyd, and Albert Brooks. Di- 
rected by Steven Spielberg, John 
Landis, Joe Dante, and George Miller. 
Rated PG.
Compiled by DAWNBROSONSKI
arng an aigMnl s oiUnnU 
avMr trn tyP bgvh 6,SMnC 
tniCd an orySn 6oAd
LARRY MICHELSPresident and Cofounder, SCOUniversity of Illinois, Class oj 1952
CßlAA^
f 1988
•ïu-j fbi fi?
CHRIS DURHAM Carnegie Mellon, Class of 1988
MIKE PATN0DE Col Poly. Class of 1989
dr^cLxi^ 2? / ¿s
ANDREW SMITH ¡Li JTMVl___-
LOUIE BOCZEKUC San Diego. Class of 1985
Waterloo, Class of 1989
WING ENG 'Cornell, Class oj 1987
H0E-SHI EN IJ UC Bertele}', Class oj 1988Hut Ç. 'Iidtr
ROBERT TARTE RP1, Class of 1988
_________________________________________Q ....J
Thursday, February 15
Vertigo
Jimmy Stewart and Kim Novak star in this Hitch­
cock classic. Stewart, a retired police detective suf­
fering from vertigo (a fear of heights), is hired by a 
friend to keep tabs on his wife. The wife, Novak, who 
acts strange from time to time, believes that her 
body is taken over by someone else. Stewart follows 
her around town observing her strange behavior. 
After rescuing her from an attempted suicide, things 
start to get really interesting.
This movie is one of Hitchcock’s best. It has all of 
his usual plot twists, jumps, and cuts, plus a sur­
prise ending that — well, you’ll have to wait to see it 
yourself. Hitchcock uses the cameras and Stewart’s 
case of acrophobia to good effect. Don’t forget to 
watch out for Hitchcock himself in another one of his 
famous walk-on appearances. As an added plus, the 
movie is in color — watch out, all.
At 6, 8:30,10 — Not Rated
Friday, February 16
This Is Spinal Tap
If ever there was a world in need of deflating, it is 
the world of rock and roll. Spinal Tap, in effect, peels 
away the carefully constructed façade that the music 
industry erects around itself and its stars. This 
mockumentary follows the adventures of Spinal 
Tap, an English heavy meted band, as they stumble 
^ through the rock and roll world. The members of the 
band are as clueless and gullible as the rest of society 
and are taken in by the same hucksters, managers, 
interviewers, and groupies — no one is left out of the 
fun. There are no superstars here, just four guys in 
a band on a trip they can’t comprehend.
Rob Reiner, director extrordinaire, made his be- 
hind-the-scenes debut with Spinal Tap. Michael 
McKean, best known for his role as Lenny in the 
sitcom Laverne and Shirley, leads the talented cast. 
This movie is the key to understanding scores of 
inside jokes and references. Spinal Tap is a wonder­
fully twisted view of the rock world. A classic cul­
tural icon and a must-see.
^ At 6, 8,10,12 — Rated PG
Saturday, February 17
Young Frankenstein
Arguably Mel Brooks’ funniest movie, Young 
Frankenstein is Brooks’ interpretation of the mon­
ster films of the twenties and thirties. Here Brooks 
is in fine form, far wide of the blundering lack of 
subtlety of his less successful works like Spaceballs. 
This is Brooks at his best as a writer and a 
! director. Brooks takes the standard monster movie 
items •—• the great, haunted castle, the stormy 
weather, the spooked populace — and turns them on 
; their head. The evil Dr. Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) 
i is a neurotic tinker, enthralled with living down the 
| reputation of his infamous great-grandfather. The'
1 \ monster turns child-like when exposed to violin
| ; music, and the leader of the local populace is a
r ¦ wonderful combination of Bobcat Goldwaith/Adolph
; Hitler on speed. The rest of the cast — Madeline
1 ! Kahn, a very young Teri Garr, a hulking Peter
' ; Boyle, and Marty Feldman as the doctor’s loyal side
t ! kick Igor — are worth a movie in themselves. See it,
; and forgive Brooks for Spaceballs.
! I At 6, 8,10,12 — Rated PG
\ I
j Sunday, February 18
È ! Revenge of the Pink Panther
; j
Revenge Of The Pink Panther marks the late 
Peter Seller’s last hurrah as the bumbling Inspector 
Clouseau. Another Pink Panther movie followed, 
but without Sellers, the effort could not touch the wit 
| and charm of its predecessors. In this installment,
! our hero sets out in search of his own killer. His
! escapades bring him over to Hong Kong where Sell-
1 ers can perform his usual antics.
Blake Edwards directs and Dyan Cannon costars 
in this delightful farce. The usual cast of regulars 
; returns, including Herbert Lom as Clouseau’s un-
! derstandably distressed and slightly paranoid boss
; Dreyfus. Like the other Pink Panther movies made
! before the death of Sellers, Revenge promises to be
; loads of fun.
At 6, 8,10,12 — Rated PG»\
; By DON PICKETT
These computer professionals are working on some of the most 
challenging, rewarding, and influential UNIX® System devel­
opment being done in the world today.
But it wasn’t too long ago that each of them was just like you, 
wrapping up a lot of hard years studying computer science, and 
looking for an opportunity to turn that effort into a career of 
working in the best professional and environmental situation 
possible.
And when that opportunity reached out from The Santa Cruz 
Operation, Inc., they chose SCO'" hands down.
If you're ready to join them in Santa Cruz—playing with the 
top UNIX System team in the business—we’re ready to talk with 
you.
You’re invited to an Information Session hosted by members of 
our Technical Staff so that you can find out more about working 
with the company that has put more UNIX Systems on more com­
puters worldwide than anyone else—SCO.
DATE: Tuesday, February 27 
TIME: 7:00 - 9:00 pm 
PLACE: Skibo Room 13
To discuss career opportunities at SCO, sign up at your Career 
Placement Office for an appointment with an SCO recruiter who 
will be at your campus on Wednesday, February 28.
We’re looking for engineers in the following areas:
? Software Development
? Technical Support
? Quality Assurance
? Technical Marketing
? MIS
Qualifications:
B.S./M.S. in Computer Science or equivalent 
Excellent communication skills
If you are unable to meet with us while we’re on campus, please 
send your resume to:
5885--------61 College Relations
Wf I I jagg The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc.
—¦‘vV ^^^1 400 Encinal Street 
THE SANTA CRUZ OPERATION P.O. BOX 1900
Bw rifBc eooeusfwtsy rDoceyru Santa Cruz, CA 95061 
or call 800-SCO-UNIX (726-8469) Ext. 5600

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 February 1990L15
And the envelope please...
The 1990 Drive-In Academy Award nominees are in
JOE BOB BRIGGS GOES 
TO THE DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
BEST FLICK
The Fly II, one of the finest 
oozing pizza-face insect sequels 
since Aliens.
Parents, the story of a typical 
Ozzie-and-Harriet cannibal fam­
ily in the fifties.
Deadbeat At Dawn, the finest 
move ever made in Dayton, Ohio: 
“He quit the gangs. They killed 
his girl. He became Deadbeat At 
Dawn.”
Red Scorpion, best in-your-face 
exploding-third-world-country 
movie of the last ten years.
. Heathers, the first movie that 
lias something good to say about 
iéen suicide.
. Lock Up, the horrifying story of 
what it would be like to go to a 
prison in New Jersey where the 
warden was so mean he forced 
you to play football in the mud.
The Dead Pit, best zombie flick 
of the year, about an evil doctor 
who enjoys doing a little bone- 
saw surgery after he gets off work.
Puppet Master, zombie mari­
onette movie about grizly flesh- 
eating midget puppets.
Mutant on the Bounty, the story 
of a horribly motivated saxophone 
player rescued by a Gilligan’s 
Island spaceship full of singles- 
bar rejects.
Shocker, story of a TV repair­
man who jumps out of TV sets 
and carves up entire families, then 
disappears back into videoland 
before the blood is dry on the baby 
crib.
BEST ACTOR
Eric Stoltz, the half-human, 
half-insect, mutant man-child in 
The Fly II.
Kandy Quaid, Parents, as the 
toxic waste expert and cannibal 
who tells his son “Eat your meat.”
Jim Van Bebber, Deadbeat At 
Dawn, who loses eight different 
body parts in the course of the 
movie.
Dolph Lundgren, Red Scorpi­
ons, a bodybuilder Swede with 
tree trank legs who turns into a 
killer KGB agent with a heart of
;old.
Sly Rocky Rambo, Lock Up, as 
the sensitive car mechanic who
says “Your body has to be here, 
but your mind can be anywhere.” 
Kyle T. Heffner, Mutant on the 
Bounty, for doing the whole movie 
with a face that looks like a can of 
Raviolios, and saying “Even if I 
didn’t look like I was bobbing for 
french fries, I’d be thrilled to be 
with you.”
Donald Pleasance, Halloween 
5, as the weird Dr. Loomis, his 
face scarred even more than it 
was in the last movie.
BEST ACTRESS
Linnea Quigley, Night of the 
Demons, for doing the whole movie 
in a pink tutu hiked up to here, 
and seducing a fat guy with the 
line “Maybe I’m in the mood for 
pork tonight.”
Deborra-Lee Funness, Shame, 
as the Australian Charles Bron­
son, sweeping scum offthe streets.
Mary Beth Hurt, Parents, for 
wearing stiletto high heels, cone- 
head support bras, and cooking 
mystery meat.
Sandy Dennis, Parents, the beef 
critter school psychologist with a 
face like Silly Putty.
Winona Ryder, Heathers, as the 
only non-Heather in the flick.
Julie Carmen, Fright Night Part
2, as the cigarette-smoking 
spiked-high-heel older-woman 
vampire who says, “Do you know 
how to use your lips, Charlie?” 
Cheryl Lawson, The Dead Pit, 
as the gal who has her memory 
cut out with a surgical icepick, 
one of the finest screamers in 
movie history.
BREAST ACTRESS
Karen Mayo Chandlen, 
Stripped to Kill 2: Live Girls, as 
the S&M voodoo topless dancer.
Phoebe Legere, The Toxic 
Avenger Part II, the blind girl­
friend of Toxie.
Lezlie Deane, 976-EVIL, the ex- 
Dallas Cowboys cheerleader who 
does some inspired aardvarking 
and says “When I’m mad, I eat.” 
Brigitte Nielsen, Bye Bye Baby, 
who wears a white mini-dress slit 
up to here, aerobic leotards, biki­
nis, and nothing at all, creating a 
new thunderthighed fashion 
statement called Scandanavian 
Buffalo.
Cizzy Cameron, Space Mutiny, 
Cameron Mitchell’s daughter for 
twinkle-toeing around in a silver 
mini skirt, and holding her ray 
gun like a cocktail waitress deliv­
ering a vodka martini.
Sharlene Martin, Friday the 
13thPart VIII: Jason Takes Man­
hattan, as a prom queen who 
labels parts of her own body and 
turns herself in as a biology proj­
ect.
)i,reu8b P8u8 i. sl8 sT rP8 ls6ilnrisl. il rP8 “o8.r Lus..ser C,8l8” ,nr8ysuS | rP8 tssM8u una8 .,8l8 il !leI4eJeD 1cs4cAEeI4 qI.u ToI4(
Marilyn Chambers, Party In­
corporated, for crossing over from 
porno to legitimate movies — for 
the fifth time.
Dona Speir, Savage Beach, for 
flying an airplane through a rain­
storm, saying “Shouldn’t we get 
out of these wet clothes?” And 
then putting the plane on auto­
pilot so she can change blouses.
Hope Marie Carlton, Savage 
Beach, for running around in 
jungle shorts, cowboy boots, and 
a spaghetti strap T-Shirt with a 
machine gun strapped to her 
chest.
Teri Weigel, Savage Beach, for 
saying “My ideology means far 
more to me than fame or adula­
tion,” right before she whips off 
her blouse.
Jennifer DeLora, Fright House, 
the high priestess of a huge­
breasted chiffon-robed witches 
coven who says “Intruders! They 
have defiled the ceremony!”
BEST BAD GUY
Lyle Alzado, Shock Troop, as 
the evil Russian.
Lee Richardson, The Fly 2, as 
the evil industrialist who says 
“We did eveiything we could for 
your dog.”
Antonio Fargas, I’m Gonna Git 
You Sucka, as the pimp who wins 
the “Pimp ofthe Year” pageant by 
reciting the poem “My Bitch Bet­
ter Have My Money,” wearing 
platform heels so high they have
plastic fish bowls in them.
Wayne Newton, License to Kill, 
as the sleazy grinning evangelist.
Wings Hanser, L.A. Bounty, as 
the sleazeball who forces a guy to 
get inside a wooden crate, says 
“Hard to breathe?” and shoots the 
crate full of holes.
Donald Sutherland, Lock Up, 
as the warden who says “This is 
hell and I’m going to give you a 
guided tour.”
Scott Williamson, Mutant On 
The Bounty, as an intergalactic 
convenience-store robber with an 
obnoxious giggle.
Troy Donahue, The Chilling, as 
the evil scientist who sells human 
body parts to the Mexican black 
market.
Mitch Pileggi, Shocker, as Ho­
race Pinker, the TV repairman 
who says “Come on, boy, let’s take 
a ride in my Volts Wagon.”
BEST DIALOGUE
Jessica Dublin, War: “I have 
just about had it with you terror­
ists.”
Randy Quaid, Parents: “Is he 
fresh? He looks fresh. Puree the 
liver tissue. And might as well get 
some lymph tissue while we’re in 
there.”
Mark Carlton, Heathers: “My 
son was a homosexual and I love 
him — I love my dead gay son.”
Christian Slater, Heathers: 
“Maybe I am killing everyone in 
the school, but nobody loves me.”
Jim Varney, Fast Food: “The 
old coot didn’t know diarrhea from 
a milkshake.”
Robert Davi, License to Kill: 
“Drug dealers ofthe world, unite!”
BEST GROSSOUT SCENE
Live mutant birth in The Fly II.
Hypo needle breaking off in Eric 
Stoltz’s arm in The Fly II.
Faces eaten off by fly vomit in 
The Fly II.
Charles Bronson forcing a guy 
to eat a Rolex in Kinjite.
Dean Martin background voice 
in Parents.
The Toxic Avenger on the toilet 
in The Toxic Avenger Part II.
Heroin shooting in Deadbeat at 
Dawn.
Insect-design carving on Dolph 
Lundgren’s chest in Red Scorpion.
Hulk Hogan wearing peach 
panties in No Holds Barred.
Face-eating rats in The Food of 
the Gods II.
Sticking dozens of incredibly 
long needles into live brains in 
The Dead Pit.
Marilyn Chambers singing a 
romantic ballad in Party Incorpo­
rated.
The “safe sex” scene in Hallow­
een 5.
The Barcalounger attack in 
Shocker.
The Hoover rape scene in 
Oversexed Rugsuckers From 
Mars.
Wayne Newton doing the “Just
a Gigolo” audience singalong in 
Wayne Newton Live From Las Ve­
gas.
BEST WRITER
Joe Augustyn, Night ofthe De­
mons: “Would you like a fudge 
log?”
Christopher Hawthorne, Par­
ents: ‘What are we eating?” “Left­
overs.” “Leftovers from what?” 
“Eat your dinner, honey.”
Daniel Waters, Heathers, for 
making poetry out of words like 
“phlegm glob.”
Maria Dante, Space Mutiny: 
“Commander, the energizing 
tumbines have been sabotaged” 
and “One cannot escape one’s own 
destiny.”
BEST DIRECTOR
Katt Shea Ruben, Stripped to 
Kill 2: Live Girls.
Keenen Ivory Wagons, I’m 
Gonna Git You Sucka.
Bob Balagan, Parents.
Jim Van Bebber, Deadbeat a,t 
Dawn.
Joseph Zito, Red Scorpion.
David Schmoeller.Pupjsei Mas­
ter.
Robert Torrence, Mutant on the 
Bounty.
Wes Craven, Shocker.
Joe Bog Briggs is the drive-in 
movie critic of Grapevine, Texas. 
His Drive-In Awards have noth­
ing to do with the real Oscars.
Attention:
clb8uyunbenr8. 4irP WnYsu. u8Anr8b rs_ su n 
g86sl.runr8b xlr8u8.r il_ xlr8ulnrislnA E8Anrisl.
Recent events in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union raise a host of new questions and much uncertainty about East-West relations, and European 
peace and security. Carnegie Mellon is fortunate to have coming as a one-week visitor (from February 19 through February 23), sponsored by the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences, Sir Michael Knight, Air Marshal in Great Britain’s Royal Air Force and (since 1986) United 
Kingdom Military Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). During his stay, Sir Michael will offer a 1-unit short 
course described below:
66-200 European Peace and Security: Past, Present and Future Prospects
In five 90-minute seminar sessions, this 1-unit course will examine issues and strategies that have affected and shaped the goals of peace and security in Europe during the post-World 
War II era, and (particularly in light of recent developments in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union) those that will likely affect and shape them in the future. The seminar will address 
in succession the following five topics: (1) A Tale of Two Alliances; (2) Pax Europa?; (3) The Problems of Success: A NATO Case Study; (4) The Next Step in East-West Arms Control; 
and (5) A New Security Plan for Europe. 
The seminar will be taught by Sir Michael Knight, Air Marshal in Great Britain’s Royal Air Force and (since 1986) United Kingdom Military Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO). 
The seminar will be limited to fifteen undergraduate students, with priority going to those in majors with a demonstrable emphasis and interest in international relations. Students will 
sign up for this course through the the usual add-drop procedures, and may obtain “departmental” approval at the H&SS Academic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161). 
This course will meet daily from Monday, February 19 through Friday, February 23, 6:30-8:00 pm, in the H&SS Dean’s Conference Room, Baker Hall 246A.
(

---------------------------------------------------

J.~Liwie-Valentine Personals
hsw
Brush your teeth and maybe 
I’ll sleep with you too!
~K. ____________
Matt P.-
Happy Valentine's Day, you 
manly man!
Love,
-One of your wenches!
Candy the Moaner-
Happy Birthday 
and
Happy Valentine's Day!!
Love and Laughs,
~Smokey the Wishful
Susan-
At this rate, we’ll never break 
Michael’s record.
Happy Valentine's Day.
-Steve
Stephen~
YOU want to break Mike’s 
record? I'VE been waiting all 
this while...
Love.
-Susan
Yvette-
So are you going to take 
advantage of me? (Please?) 
Happy Valentine's Day.
Yours,
-Mike
Hey Sweet Baby-
Wili you be my honeydeW?
Lester-
I’d like to be your best friend. 
~“Ed"
To My Schlag Fags-
Happy V-D!
I love you, one at a time!
-Short Sexy Stitff
To the non-brothers and 
non-little-sister of Mil...
TILTH
M.~
Thanks for the wonderful 
four months. Here’s to at 
least three more...I love you.
-A little flower
Yo Cory-
Glad friends are there. 
You’re too good to lose.
-Don
Sherri-
Congratulations. I love you 
always.
-John
McGowan plays it smooth. 
Heidi-
Nuzzle, nuzzle
Yours,
~M.
Happy Valentine's Day. I 
hope you’ll always feel that 
you can tell me anything, 
and that you can call me 
when you need me. I'm 
looking forward to being your 
friend for a long, long time, 
no matter where we end up.
With love,
~M.
Dear Rachel-
Lillies are white 
Carnations can be yellow. 
As long as you’re willing 
I'll be your fellow.
Happy Valentine's Day
Love 
-John
D.H.-
Let’s just get our schedules 
together, shall we?
~M.
Lazy Twins, Floozin’ Soozin, 
My Little Redheaded Friend, 
Justine, and Lizzy-
Happy V-day.
I love you guys! 
Twins-thanksfor the drawer. 
I’ll drink to that!
Love and Laughs,
-Lush on the Hill (ChaJ
Kriss-
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!
Do the F-Dance to celebrate!!! 
(Ha Hal)
Love yd!
-Your Little Sister
Sharon-
Thank you for being my best 
friend.
Love 
~Dawn
D.F.-You HOT babe-
“Staggering through the 
daytime
Your image on my mind... 
Passing so close beside you, 
babe-
Sometimes the feelings are so 
hard to hide!... ”
Sorry-I couldn't resist (and still 
can't!)
Love,
-your completely secret 
admirer!!!
Drew-
Is it inconsequential to you? 
How can you say you won’t 
return?! You're gone and I 
miss you.
-not just another hapless 
victim
Farron-
Give me a call and we’ll get 
sweaty together!
Natalie-
We're very happy for you. We 
wish you all the best on your 
upcoming marriage. You two 
have made us happy as you 
have made eachother happy. 
Good Luck.
-Josh & Nicolle
Come dress me. I love you. 
Goodbye.
Pat-
Why listen to rumor when you 
can talk to me instead?
-chicken of the E
Yvette-
Wild Oats. Saturday. Be there. 
-The Troubled Two
Jim-
I don’t know why you put up 
with me, but I’m happy you do. 
Will you be my Valentine?
-Jen
JAKS-
I hope our friendship lasts 
forever...and ever...
-AP
Matt A.~
I just wanted to wish my 
hubby a happy Valentine's 
Day! Have a great one!
Love,
-Your beloved wife
To my funny valentine-
Ease my soreness with your 
voice.
Calm the burning in my mind 
with the blueness of your eyes. 
Touch my heart with your 
laughter.
Excite me.
Teach me.
To another, I may seem to ask 
a lot
But what I get from you, I 
could not ask of others.
No one else could compare. 
Help me.
Guide me.
AUI have asked, you have 
done.
Often I wonder why.
You have done it aii 
beautifully.
I thank you.
I love you.
- Josh
Stew-
Bah- ha- ha- ha- ha! 
~M.
Nikki-
When I am low you’re always 
there. You make me laugh, and
giggle-
How would you like to come 
over later, sit on my face, and 
wiggle.
-Mighty Mouse
Eyore-
The Chief of the Army says 
“We could blow it up!!” I love 
you Sweetheart.
Q
-Lizard
Cinderella-
May you find your Prince 
Charming soon. 
Congratulations, sis.
With love,
Elizabeth
Shut up and kiss me, you dip.
Chris-
Go take a long, cold shower.
One of my favorite things about 
you is that you’re mine.
~N.
To the cute guy that gets off 
the shuttle at the comer of 
Craig St. and Center Ave. 
and carries a small 
drqfting board (you know 
who you are)-
You are truly a beautiful boy!
-Your secret Valentine
(you don’t know who I am!)
Mike-
These have been two of the 
mast trying years of my life, 
but also the most satisfying. I 
think this just might work!
-Amy
K.C.~
You deserve better than “the 
Candy man”-just look around 
you for someone who really 
cares.
Mighty Mouse- 
I love you.
-Nurse Goodbody
Kelly-
You’re right We should sleep 
together one of these nights. 
Happy Valentine's Day.
-Mike
Awww, poor Billy!
Jennifer-
Love and pizza 
Tirpp"
We lust you, Nathan! 
Love,
~Your beloved groupies
Kimba-
Let me give you a taste of my 
logic probe.
-Wyle E.
MJS-
Cartoons are for kids
Stew-
Five women, I don’t know... 
Happy Valentine's Day, you 
stud you.
Love,
-Dawn
D.M.-
I think ...I think I miss you! 
-S.P.
Anne-
All the world’s a stage;
too bad you ain’t gonna be on
it.
-Mr. Papp
Though you are far from me, 
I still do and always shall 
yahoo you seriously.
-Tony L. 
Keri-
Looking forward to melting 
ice cream with you. I’ll bring 
the wine, you bring yourself.
Tastefully Yours,
-Johnny
Tina-
Come home!
-Luke
Grculuating Seniors
remember before May: 
Absence sharpens love,
But presence strengthens it.
Jinny, Donna, Paul & 
Brian-
Happy Birthday!
~AP
Ooh, that was tasty!
GRO-
I’ll sit pinin'for you, come 
August. But don’t worry too 
much-I trust you’ll come 
snouting around sometimes. 
That will make me happy.
-WOB
Dear Pube-
Wanna play cave tonight? 
-your Girl
Laurie-
You are incredible 
-Joe
Tripp-
If I only had the words to tell 
you...
~J.
Hey Ter-
Did you ever find the Pez 
candy? Happy Valentine’s 
Day.
Love,
~Chrissie 
Miss Fish-
Love you to death, roomie! 
Let’s get some real 
roommates next year!
-Aim
Ed & Leslie-
Get a room! (Just kidding)
Love, L
-The Third Roomie
Howdy-
You were great! 
-the crusty dead
M. & M. ~
...in your mouth, but not in 
your hand...
A.J.-
Thanks for over two great 
years-I hope there are more 
to come. I love you!
~H.P

---------------------------------------------------

I do my shopping alone 
Michele Garvey
We had to eat the candy bars fast 
before the chocolate melted 
and the caramel started dripping, harding 
stiff on our chins. But most important eat
them fast, before we reached the checkout line. 
It's not easy to pass up candy bars 
at the supermarket. While I won't say 
I truly miss you, I still can't walk
through the store without feeling partly guilty 
partly empty. This hunger I've got so aerated 
It fuels the cart I push and charges the lights 
bright above my head. How strange this emotion
could flare and die again in the time It takes 
a woman to total my groceries. Now the aisles 
are quiet and tame, the grime-glare of overhead 
lights already dimmed. Even the dust on the floor
smells stale and heavy as If waiting for a rain 
to cancel It out. "I am going," I tell the cashier. 
And I am gone.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

dossier
LITERA T U K E % DESIGN
mslr8lr.
When the Pay Phone Rings by Trina Pundurs 
design by Linda Christenson
Crime & Incident by Mark Bukovec 
design by Elena Maccarone
The Unicom of Sant Juan by Riz Dagli 
design by Bernard Uy
Rotilla by David Koehn 
design by Eric Teng
I Do My Shopping Alone by Michele Garvey 
design by Jimmy Baker
Ce26i..isl.
Dossier Is The Tartan's monthly literary forum 
and welcomes the chance to read any submissions. 
Send us your poetry, fiction, plays, and essays. 
All submissions must be accompanied by name, 
address and telephone number.
Send submissions to: 
Dossier 
c/o The Tartan 
Box 50, Skibo
Next Deadline: March 1, 1990
Credits
Design Editor: Soo-Tsu Leng 
Literary Editor: Christopher Kush
By Way of Introduction
Christopher Kush
Frau Jungblut would get furious when we spoke of love, even when she would ask 
us to tell her about it. She was also the first woman I ever met who had a crew cut, which 
only added to her image of severity when scolding us for being indiscriminate with our 
affections.
"Was Uebst du dich." she asked us one day in class: What do you love? One by 
one, we tried to please her. we tried to answer correctly, but there were so many 
possibilities. In seventh grade, what don't you love?
She started with Brad Jones.
" IVas Uebst du. BradT
“/c/7 Hebe scheelaufen." he said. He loved skiing.
She tilted her head to one side, precisely scratched some part of her scalp, and 
said Nein. It was her favorite word, and when she said no, she meant it. Frau Jungblut said 
nein louder than any other word—louder, we felt, than it needed to be said, and with an 
accent so robust, you were embarrassed at the effort. Sometimes, I think she was just 
making hockers.
He tried again.
-Ich Hebe schnee." He loved snow
"Nein." said the Frau with a tilt and a scratch, and we were all confused. Did she 
think he was lying? Brad was practically famous for having a million used lift tickets hanging 
off the 7ippers of his winter jacket.
Tommy Jenkins answered. "Ich liebe Good und Plentywhich, although not as 
verifiable as Brad's skiing, certainly wasn't out of the realm of possibility.
-Nein. Tommy." the Frau said and made a discouraging sound that cannot be 
translated.
It went on and on until Frau Jungblut called on pasty Rebecca Hoffmeyer. Rebecca 
was the smartest person in our class because English was her second language. She was 
bom in Germany for Chrissake. We always thought it suspicious that Rebecca decided to 
take German when she could already speak it so well. Tommy told me she was a spy. but I 
mostly just suspected her of wanting to show the rest of us up. We all hated her.
“Ich liebe Mutti." said Rebecca, and the Frau smiled at the rest of us as if it 
should all be clear now. I don't know. I still didn’t get it. I was deciding whether I would call 
Rebecca a jerkface in the hallway after class when the Frau called on me.
~Herr Kush." she asked, "Was Uebst du dich?'
In seventh grade. I loved two things: the song. “Love Rollercoaster." and 
masturbating. I'm not sure I even knew the word masturbating in seventh grade, but I could 
barely refer to it in English, much less in German, and I wasn't about to take a stab at 
translating for the Frau.
"Ich liebe das Liebe Rollercosterhagan." I said.
~Nein!"
She was yelling now. I heard Tommy Jenkins whisper. “You're going to the 
showers. Dude."
“In Germany.” she scolded us. “You don't say you love everything. A German does 
not love everything he sees. It's not like in America where you can fall in love with ice cream
Ice cream was an ominous choice for example because we called Frau Jungblut. 
Frusen Gladje. behind her back.
“In Deutschland." she continued, "you only love your family or very close friends," 
and she attacked her scalp with such abandon there might have been blood under her nails.
Published by The Tartan »Carnegie Mellon UniversityFebruary 13,1990’Volume 11 Number 4

---------------------------------------------------

The sweaty air smells like a perfumed bedroom. The marijuana lingers around my head. For some reason, I can’t 
find her words. She is talking about honesty and truth and sincerity. She is trying to tell me how important it is to develop 
deep connections in a relationship. I didn’t understand even as the sun set behind the overpass. I didn’t understand.
I tell her we should go have fun. Isn’t that why we’re here? She tells me that something isn’t right We have to talk. 
She asks me if I’m afraid of her. I’m noL I’m really not. I’m so stoned I can barely see her. She tells me “Go ahead, go ahead 
and party around town. Leave me here. Really, go just leave me here.”
I feel a little guilty, I swallow my tongue and tell her we shouldn’t have fun. We should talk.
A smallish man gropes through the dark towards us. He sways as he walks and seems attached to every step he 
takes, awkward and determined. It takes me a while to acknowledge that the man is talking to me. The man is far away at the 
end of a tunnel in a cloud. He repeats himself, “You give me something, I ask you, You give me something.”
I shrug as if I don’t have anything to give him.
He takes two steps back and pulls a gun. A big silver gun. It takes some time to realize what he is holding. We stare 
down the barrel of a gun as a strange man touches our bodies squeezing parts for pleasure and other parts for money. The 
man backs away with our money. He says, “I don’t need this.”
He mocks tossing the money away and spits. “I no need this. When I tell you, you give me something, you give me 
something. Like God.”
I return to the Mediteranean as the sun finishes setting. The clouded sky hurrys away and the dragon eye of the 
moon dimly hovers above. I tread water and look for her and find her. She looks like a jellyfish, spread out in the water, 
almost amorphous.
I look for the flotilla but can’t find it. I feel the wood pulp wine mixing with the heavy salt water. I keep spitting the
sea out.
“Yanni reminds me of my father,” she says.
She had been flirting with Yanni all night. “Oh yes Yanni I would love some more wine,” she said, and “More 
olives? For me? Yanni you stop it now.”
And then she said to me, “How come you’re ignoring me?”
“Talk to me a little,Yanni does.”
“Order me another drink. Please, honey.”
“Why so glum, cheer up, this isn’t a funeral, we’re on vacation.”
“Yanni, Yanni, teach me some more Greek.”
“Yiassou, that means cheers in Greek.”
“Yiassou, honey. Yiassou, Yanni!”
“I thought your family was Jewish,” I say.
“They are, but still.”
“You have red hair and blue eyes and your Father has black hair and brown eyes?” I ask.
“My Father’s hair is gray now,” she answers.
“Does your Father have a beard like Yanni?”
“No, but he used to,” she says.
Damn the water. I keep my lips tight but somehow it gets in. It must come in through my ears. And my insides, god, 
my diaphragm feels like a cracked mirror. Inside I feel splinters everywhere.My swollen tongue keeps getting caught between 
my teeth. The pain is good. At least I can feel something. The shore is very far away. I look for the flotilla.
We walk into a bank in Venice to cash our last bunch of travelers cheques. I finish with my business and pocket the 
Lira. She tells me she can’t find her passport. I ask her what that means.
“I can’t find my passport.”
We tear her backpack apart looking for it. I’m tossing stuff everywhere first toiletries: toothbrush, deodorant, 
chapstik, lipstick, rouge, baby powder.
Baby Powder? I think to myself.
Then it’s clothes: shirt, shirt, shorts, shirt, pants, undrewear, bra, shirt, underwear, underwear, underwear, under­
wear.
Underwear, my god, I think to myself.
Venice comes back to me like a dungeon without a roof. A labyrinth of winding passages landlocked on tiny islands. 
Outside the bank it’s raining hard. The wine is cheap and the apartment, the flat we rented, is even cheaper. I can’t deal with 
a lost passport. I take one wrong turn and then another. Baby Powder? I say to myself again. We get lost for hours. We 
should ask for directions but I’m not listening to her anymore. There are alot of things I should’ve done. Instead I hug the 
wine bottle tight so I won’t 
drop it.
“Talk to me.” she says. I don’t. She runs down the alley away from me. Maybe to be sick I don’t know. She col­
lapses against a door. Already half asleep I wake her up.
She says, “I give up.” The flat is right around the comer.
My stomach still aches. This means I am alive. She’s speaking and I can hear her. This means I am above water and 
not below. Cloudy words clear in the air as she repeats them.
“Look, stars,” she says.
I understand them.
“Do we really have to talk?” I ask her. “Let’s go have some fun.”
The edges of the clouds, moon glazed edges, move east. The dragon eye of the moon winks in between the lesser 
clouds. I remember the way Yanni winks and how everyone laughs. Yanni, why aren’t you watching over us?
A hundred meters away the flotilla rests quietly on the water. There are no waves. I swim towards it and grab the 
edges of the barrels which keep the platform afloat. My muscles strain against each other full of fatigue. My muscles feel the 
way my body does when I wake up from a dream but I am still half asleep and unable to move. I use my arms as fulcrums 
and flop myself onto the flotilla. I hear her raise herself from the water. I wonder if the sand still has fingers through her toes. 
A cloud is in front of the moon. I turn to help her—without a word. She falls, weak, back into the water. Is it to heavy for 
you? Panning for her deep red hair, I might call her name. I search for her cream white midsection, her tanned chest, her big 
blue eyes. I hear a thud against one of the metal barrels. I wait for her to swim back up at me. My God, how much underwear 
do you need?
I’m so tired. I lay back on the flotilla and almost think of her. So tired. I almost move to find her but I don’t swim 
very well. I wonder how far her father actually swam with her. Are her sandals still on the beach. Is that Yanni’s voice?
Tired. I can’t move at all. I know there is never a place to rest There is nowhere to go not the nest of family, the stupor of. 
alcohol or dream. The empty sky releases all the heat from the earth. I think of the moon. Yanni’s eye? And of his dark mass 
of a beard.. The clouds? Where’s Yanni when you really need him? I realize everything slowly falls into dreams, each one a 
dark unforgiving body of water. I’ll be swimming all my life.

---------------------------------------------------

The dusk slowly begins to fill the small inlet with clouds. Yanni pulls the extra hairs from the dark mass of his 
beard and watches us stumble away from the Tavema..
“Isn’t Yanni great,” I say
“Yea, he takes great care of us. I wish we could stay longer. Something like forever,” she says.
“We should swim. It’s still warm and I’m feeling rammy,” she continues.
“Rammy?”
“Yea, you know.”
“Oh,” I say, and sit down in the sand. “Where should we swim to?” I say.
“Out to the flotilla,” she says.
“That’s way out there. Must be three or four kilometers,” I say.
“Oh c’mon, my father and I used to swim for miles, up and down Long Beach Island.”
“Non-stop?” I ask.
“Non-stop,” she says with pride in her voice and one of her sandals off. “After awhile you just fall into this flow, 
it’s like your not really doing anything at all.”
“Well, if your father can do it, I sure as hell can too.” I say, almost confident.
We disrobe and toss our clothing onto the beach and walk towards the water.
All the clothing except for her sandals. She places them precisely on a rock overlooking the ocean.
“Why do they take the flotilla so far out at night?” she asks.
“Probably so tourists like ourselves don’t get an idea in our head to swim out to it,” I say.
“Oh, stop it, don’t be that way,” she says.
Then, after tapping me on the head, she charges nude into the sea letting out small gasps and screeches as her 
body adjusts to the cool water running over her legs, her stomach and finally her shoulders. I remember how 
the sand forms fingers through a persons toes and how they hold one to the floor. I stand there watching her. I 
rush into the sea to tear her away from the bottom of the Mediterranean. The Mediteranean is pulling her away 
from me like so much sand away from the shore as if she were a ship or a dream pulled away from it’s berth.
I swim next to her. At first it is quite easy. I enjoy watching her swim, her flesh paddling and keeleing against the 
water. I speak to her in broken sentences, gasps, and loud grunts. Our bodies jostle with the body of 
water, both trying to position ourselves to speak and to listen. So much like sex. I tire quickly and fall silent. Before the 
rhythm lulls me into the flow experience of stroke, kick, breath; stroke kick, breath; I notice we are far 
from shore and begin to worry.
She isn’t the girl I thought she was. She isn’t the girl I brought to Europe. The girl I asked along can take care of 
herself. She tells me she can take care of herself. I don’t believe her anymore. I’m here to get away from my own responsi 
bility not to take care of someone else. Swimming fills my awareness and then it drifts through me and away. My mind, 
free of thought, reels back to a train heading north from Hamburg to Stockholm—a short two months ago.
“Help me,” she says. “My pack is too heavy for me to get down.”
Without a word I help her.
The second class D-train rocks around curves. Luggage overhead seems to grasp and release every other moment 
making a rhythmical movement in time with the click-clack of the engine and wheels. It continues for hours. The wheels 
screech and grind as the tracks bend around cities until they stagger into Lubeck. The cars are loaded onto the ferry and 
sent to Copenhagen and then further north to Sweden.
The unforgiving aroma of others, ever present, turns over in the whirl of cigarette smoke that slows only when 
the train stops. The only escape are the Laps. The fields of yellow flowers in bloom during early June. Fields 
of such a bright persistent yellow that you have to drop your chin. Some fields seemingly the size of oceans spread over 
the bottom of the window. East to west, north to south, all a steep yellow. The kind of yellow that is almost frightening but 
a yellow not the color of light at all. Somewhat the color of dandelions or sunflowers but less like wax.
The next time I look up the world is dark and condemning. The shore seems to have grown small. The shacks 
and tavemas are the size of my thumbnail. Why am I here? I have to ask myself. I don’t swim very well to begin with.
Damn her, halfway beween Lyon and Milan she loses her rail pass. The conductor comes in and asks for her 
ticket, she cries, she pouts, she sits down closes her eyes and won’t budge. She tells him that, “I won’t budge.” He 
kicks her out anyways.
The flotilla is as far away as the shore. I can make out Yanni trudging home in his weather beaten sandals.
The wood pulp wine must feel like sawdust in his stomach.
“I was just wondering,” she says, “Are there tides in the Mediterranean?”
“I don’t know,” I say. “Why?”
“I don’t want to lose those sandals. Sixty marks is sixty marks.” she says.
“I’d worry less about the sandals and more about the tides,” I say. “I mean, what if the tides are going out?”
“Who cares?” she says competitively. “What about sharks? Don’t sharks start to feed at dark?”
“I don’t know,” I say. “Didn’t think about it.”
“If there are sharks, there are probably giant squids.”
“Shut up,” I say.
“and manta rays too,” she says.
“Shut up,” I say again.
We swim in silence for a short while.
“Are you scared?” she asks.
“No.”
“Yes you are, I can tell. You have lines in your forehead,” she says.
“I’m not scared. Besides how the hell can you tell what my forehead is doing while we’re swimming? God, I need a 
drink and a smoke. Where’s Yanni when you need him?”
“My stomach hurts honey,” She answers.
“Yea mine does too,” I say.
It might have been the pain. It might not have been the pain at all. But my mind set itself free again. The burning 
ache in my stomach subsides only when I drift far away; this time I am in Amsterdam, Vondelpark, dusk. The air is muggy.

---------------------------------------------------

As a "treat" on Fridays, we got to talk the last ten minutes of class auf Deutsch. 
The Frau would sit back and enjoy the spectacle of thirty junior high school students 
speaking like morons. We endlessly introduced ourselves and described our shoes, our 
vocabularies were limited, even after months of class. I never liked it.
That year, my father took the family on vacation to Europe. I thought we were 
going to have fun. Really, it was a test.
"Okay, ask someone how to get to the Hotel Düsseldorf," my dad told me when 
we stepped off a train somewhere in the heart of Germany.
I was utterly shocked. Was I expected to go around pestering these people who 
didn’t love anything but themselves? Had that been the plan all along? I couldn’t even do 
umlauts yet. I suggested we soak up some local color, find the hotel ourselves.
"Don't be a dick. I'm tired.” my sister said and somehow that settled the matter.
They looked even paler than Rebecca Hoffmeyer, like the undead. And the train 
station smelled like weird meat. Anything could happen out there, I thought, and went out to 
socialize.
I approached the first person who looked a little like Frusen Glädje.
"Hello sir. my name is Chris. I am twelve." I said tentatively, in German.
He nodded.
"I am twelve ... I am twelve ... I love carrots."
Then he said something, but I couldn't understand it, so I said. “My shoes are 
blue." and waved good bye.
My family thought I lied about the German class. They sat collapsed against a wall 
eying me contemptuously, but I was trying.
The next guy I approached was decked out in a red suit eating a big gray hotdog. 
He looked friendly, like an usher.
"I am a boy." I told him.
My God. I realized just after I had said it, you don't go around advertising that in 
the train station of a foreign country'. I pretended like I hadn't said anything.and moved on.
Eventually. I came upon a mangy vagabond, a stray cat of a person, probably a 
writer, who really wanted to help me.
I told him my name. I told him my age. I told him I loved french fires, but he did 
not understand. Then I experienced a revelation so clear, it was as if Frau Jungblut’s voice 
had rung out over the intercom. Nein, the voice seemed to say. Nein! Nein! Nein!
“I like french fries." I told him, "and would like eating many of them at the Hotel
Düsseldorf extremely."
When we returned to the U.S., since I had resolved never to speak to my father
again, I decided to broaden my horizons, revel in being American. I had traveled to the land
beyond and lived to tell about the place where people loved in prescribed doses. I set about 
falling in love with something. The whole world was available, and I would eat it up like 
Twinkees.
“It’s true." I told Tommy Jenkins. “They really don't love ice cream.”
“Nazis," he said.
I started taking piano lessons at Pal's Musicland.
I got my first crush on my piano teacher, a woman, by chance, and married, no 
less. At fifty-six, with a mane of frizzy black hair, a fake hip that made her sit on the chair 
funny and clothes that looked like they came from an outdated cookbook, Mrs. Farmer was 
the embodiment of nothing. Still, I fell in love.
It happened about halfway through my magnum opus which I had penned for her
during the previous week, a celebration of quarter notes called, "High and Low." The piece 
only used two keys, high C and low C—such was my composing genius, and I even included 
lyrics: high and low and high and low and . . .
Looking back. I guess the1 piece was pretty repetitive, although I changed it up 
after a couple of pages to go from low to high. Mrs Farmer listened intently to the whole 
thing,
When I was through, she said she had liked it very much and would I write her 
another one for next week. I didn't ask her then to be my girl, but I might have.
The following week, when I played my exercises for her. I became inexplicably 
nervous, to the point of repository collapse, which is probably why I was so unprepared to • 
cope with what Mrs. Farmer told me at the end of the lesson.
“Have you been away at camp this week?" she asked, after I played a heartfelt 
rendition of Nadia's Theme.
I hadn't. It was December.
'You weren’t quite up to par." she said.
I never was.
Then she looked away, out the store front windows of Pal’s, and tears filled her 
eyes, but she wasn’t sad. It looked like she was outraged. Mrs. Farmer adjusted her body in 
the chair which she always did anyway because of the fake hip. only this time it seemed 
significant.
"I won't be here next week when you come.” she said.
“Okay." I said.
"I'm leaving for good."
"Oh." I said.
“I'm sure they'll find you a new teacher who you will like just fine, if that's what 
you're worried about."
“I'm not worried,” I said
Still Mrs. Farmer looked away, and I noted the intricacies of hairpins that directed 
the hair to the back of her head. I thought, if too many of them fall out, we might drown in 
her hair.
"Where will you go?” I asked. She did not answer.
“Melissa's here. You'd better leave now,” she said. and. despite myself, I did. 
That was the last thing Mrs. Farmer ever said to me.
I rode my bike home and took to my bed. It wasn't fair and all that stuff. My sister 
lent me her copy of Music Box Dancer, and I played it endlessly, imagined Mrs. Farmer’s 
fingers hitting.the notes and weeped. sort of.
My mom began to worry after a week had gone by. I was completely wrecked. I 
blamed myself because I had told Mrs. Farmer she would have to wait an extra week for my 
next composition, tentatively titled. "Running Up and Down a Big Hill.” That week never 
came.
My mother had to resort to Twinkees.
"Have as many as you want." she told me. and left the box just outside my 
bedroom door.
Slowly I began to rebuild my life. Still, it was months before I could get any 
perspective on the relationship. I never was able to stop myself from falling in love, though. 
Except now. when I get a crush on someone, I hear a distinct squish, like I just stepped in it. 
Call it misogyny. Call it heartbreak. I don't care. I was twelve. I was impressionable.
Germany is looking better all the time.
¦ Ich bin ein Berliner! *

---------------------------------------------------

fuiln )elbeu.
When the Pay Phone Rmgs
_. .They garnish eacjrentree70 .f, . :^%Sfc
with tomato, slices'-'.!;®
- three of them ;11 v,1
ïCxf
u. Sp%and to him:|ftose$ices 
are wheels,' rollijijjp away 
with the out-of-t^||ners
who eat here. He'itches 
to speak with them, 
their foreignness ^lmost
%¦AAu
¦4• .s?s 
.••¦-if
Vi-iy'’:' V
Jig ;: :v.
¦¦ «‘'.I
KA*.: '¦ •••’
i ..*£.?
ifV- •'); ’ V; ..
'V; Xr&- : -¿p. * '¿‘. ’
••’ *fe)Viv:V!{v'.ivy-iv, 
. ?*.•<?/ -1.; • a- .s'».:=
decadent against the vinyl 
seats and greasy wallpaper.
But he’s only a busboy.
;i:-' ''¿OTi
•> ! X;«r .
He blends right into 
the seats, the walls
He can't help it. He works 
the night shift and comes 
home eyery morning 
smelling like he's been deep-fried
t'rw-y;
¡:t:
[ bpbj [ bM bbq -Vi 2T“bBE] [ 5 b [/[b 
;; : • ' " • - '
-;s2CKBBb2 *v.."'V/Vr ¦ ,V ' '
¦ ¦ / ¦ - . ¦
' .........

---------------------------------------------------

sant
'//
and think about how to avoid getting sand in my pockets. I hand Roberto to Sand.
"I'm going to get some mats. The fireworks won't start for a while/71 say.
"All right/' he says, "I'll save our spots."
I turn and walk past the people on the sand. I step on something wet that I can't 
see in the dark. It is a relief to enter the lit part of the plaza. Everyone in the plaza, 
it seems, is walking towards the sand. A group of boys run past me carrying about 
a dozen Roman candles. The clown has taken off his rubber nose and wig and is 
walking slowly towards the parking lot with a mat in one hand and a bottle of wine 
in the other. There are napkins and cups and straws littering the ground that I didn't 
notice before. The booths are closing up and getting ready for the fireworks. There 
is a shortcut, at the back of the plaza by the fruit market, to Grandma's house. I glance 
back to make sure the rockets haven't been launched yet. The sky is still empty so 
I weave around the wooden tables of the market, towards the broken fence in the 
back. I see someone sitting on one of the tables near the edge of the plaza. I walk 
slower to see if I recognize who it is. There is a single white light shining in the 
market, and by its light I see Nieves looking over at me. I walk over to her. She has 
a canvas mat rolled up in her lap.
"Why are you here?" I ask her in a whisper. It strikes me odd that I am 
whispering.
"Why don't you come down to the sand?" I say a little bit louder.
"I wasn'tevengoingtocomeout," she says and looks down. "But Grandma said 
it was making her sad to see me inside during the festival."
"Why isn't she with you?"
"She said that she was tired."
"Are you all right?"
She shrugs her shoulders, then looks at me. She looks much older in the dull 
white light.
"I don't know," she says. There is drunken laughter somewhere behind the 
plaza booths and the sounds of breaking glass. Nieves looks out towards the 
harbor. "I don't know if I can handle the festival anymore."
1 sit down next to her. Her brown hair is hanging in front of her face, and I 
notice she is wearing the white dress Grandma bought for her last month.
"I'll stay here and watch the fireworks with you, if you want," I say.
She doesn't say anything, but I see her swallow. I know how scared she is. 
She scratches the canvas mat.
"I don't know why I brought this," she says and tries to laugh. I hear her 
sniffle. She doesn't look at me but I know what the expression on her face is. She 
sniffles again. I put my arm around her and she rests her head against my shoul­
der. I hear her sniffling and sobbing softly. Suddenly, I am angry at all the old 
gossiping women at the market, and all the stupid tourists and Aunt Gloria. But 
my anger subsides as I feel my sister's trembling head rest on my shoulder. I 
begin to miss the father I never really knew, and wish he could be here with us.
She pulls back and wipes her face with her hands.
"Come on," I say. "Roberto is probably wondering where his beautiful 
mother is."
"I don't feel very beautiful."
"Of course you are. You're my sister."
She smiles and rubs her eyes. There is a final sniffle.
I stand up and take the mat from her lap. She stands up and looks across the 
plaza. I think her eyes are red, but I can't tell. I put the mat under my left arm 
and take my sister's hand.
We walk slowly, and a faint orange speck streaks up into the sky. It explodes 
into a bright yellow star that lights up the ground and all the people. Nieves 
tightens the grip on my hand, but we walk steadily. We move past the tables and 
chairs, and onto the soft sand. Everyone watches in silence as two more orange 
specks fly upward. These two explode into spiraling flashes of green and red. 
There is applause and praise, as Nieves and I walk towards the unusual shape of
a unicorn.

---------------------------------------------------

ing her." She leans up to the baby's face and blows on it. Roberto's eyes close and 
he smiles. Mama wipes a shiny drop off his lower lip with his bib. "Are you 
being a good boy?" she says to him with a smile.
Mama was very difficult to be around while Nieves was pregnant, but she 
seemed to accept the situation better these past couple months after Roberto's 
birth.
"Gloria says Nieves isn't feeling well. Is she all right?" she asks.
"She's fine/' I answer. "Just a little bit unhappy."
Mama shakes her head slightly and tightens the laces on Roberto's shirt. 
Aunt Gloria looks around at the people in the plaza. I see her gaze pause on a 
short stocky man walking a dog. The divorce was five years ago and sometimes I 
wonder if she'll get married again. Then I wonder if Nieves will.
"She hasn't eaten well since the last week," Mama says more to herself, it 
seems, than to anyone else. Mama hadn't encouraged Nieves to go out for the 
festival, but she never tried to deter her, either. In fact, she asked Nieves to go 
with Grandma to the fruit market this morning. Nieves had said that the baby 
needed a bath and she couldn't go. Grandma was and still is Nieves' only confi­
dant. Nieves never really opened up to me about the pregnancy, and it was 
Grandma's blouse that Nieves had moistened with her tears. Since she was old 
enough to walk, Nieves had tried to escape her problems in Grandma's arms.
"If s too bad," my mother says softly. "It's the last day." She takes off her 
shawl and gives it to me. "Wrap Roberto in this. This night is a little cool."
She helps me swaddle Roberto in the perfume scented shawl..
"We're going to get something to drink," I say. "Do you want anything?"
"No," Mama says, "Señora Mendez is waiting to have tea with us."
"All right then," I say, "See you at the fireworks."
"Don't drink any alcohol," she says, "In fact, it would be better if you gave 
me Roberto."
"Please?" I implore and pull Roberto closer to me. "I'm being very careful. 
He likes to be out with the men."
"All right, but if you get tired or Roberto starts to cry, we'll be under the tent 
by the parking lot."
"I'm sure he'll be alright," I say and begin to walk away.
"Please be careful and don't drink!" she calls behind us. I hear Aunt Gloria's 
mousy voice say something. There is a flicker of green neon light to my left.
Santi and I walk to a truck near the edge of the plaza that sells soda and ice 
cream. I recognize the man in the truck. His name is Innigo Mendez and he is 
five years older than me. He has always been a close friend of the family. His 
mother and my father worked at the same bank together for a long time. Innigo 
has been in Barcelona for four months, working at a furniture repair shop.
"Bones festes, Juan! Hey Santi!" he says. Then his eyes widen and his jaw 
drops. 'That must be Roberto!"
"That's right. Do you want to hold him?" I ask.
"Yes, of course!" he says reaching out from behind the counter on the side of 
the truck.
"Come to Uncle Innigo, little Robert!"
"How have you been, Innigo?" I say as I hand him Roberto.
"Very good. I took the ferry here late last night," he says. "He is as beautiful as 
his mother!" he exclaims and bobs the baby up and down. Although Innigo is 
not too much older than Santi and I, he has always had a genuine confidence and 
sincerity that set him apart from us. He always spoke fondly of my father and 
had wonderful memories of him, like learning card tricks in the bank after 
school.-I had always looked up to him, and wished I knew my father as well as 
he did. "Where is Nieves?"
"She's at my grandmother's house."
"She must be tired from the festival," he says, still staring in wonder at 
Roberto's face.
"No," I say. "She hasn't been out for the festival."
"What?" he says. 'That's nonsense." Innigo used to ride one of the horses 
for three years. He often gave Nieves rides around the plaza at the beginning of 
the festival.
"She was at the parade for a while," Santi explains, "but some putas there
made her feel bad."
Innigo hands Roberto back to me. "It is as if no one else makes mistakes.
And who could call this beautiful child a mistake?" he says.
"People are very quick to judge," Santi says.
"I know," Innigo says. "She has suffered too much not to be able to enjoy Sant 
Juan. It's a shame."
A little girl about six comes up to the truck with a wrinkled bill in her hand. 
She looks at us and at Innigo.anxiously. Innigo smiles.over at her.
"You want something, pretty eyes?" he asks her.
She nods and says "Coke" very softly. Innigo looks at us.
"Do you gentlemen want Coke, too?"
"Yes," Santi says quickly. Innigo reaches into the back of the truck and pulls out 
three bottles of Coke. He twists the caps off and hands one bottle with a napkin 
around it to the little girl. She offers him the bill, but he tells her to keep it and 
gives her a straw. She stands there confused with the bill and Coke in her hands 
until Innigo points her towards a clown juggling in the center of the plaza. She 
glances over and walks backwards away from the truck. We all laugh.
"The Cokes are on me," he says and gives us the two cold bottles. "Does Roberto 
want a little ice cream or anything?"
"No, thank you. It's a little cool for him," 1 say.
"Look at the responsible uncle," he says, and Santi laughs some more. 'Tell 
Nieves to come see me before I leave, and tell that Grandma of yours I'll be over 
tomorrow night for some of her potato caserola."
"I will Innigo. See you!"
"See you, Innigo," Santi says. 'Thanks for the Coke."
"Anytime, Santi. Nice unicorn."
We walk towards the benches by the fountains. There is a slight spray of water, 
so we move to the tables where Manuel and Pepe and the Swedes were sitting. 
They are no longer there and Santi and I take their seats. Santi conjectures about 
what they are probably doing somewhere in the harbor. I laugh to be polite, but 
it doesn't seem all that funny. Santi sits the unicorn on the table and I sit Roberto 
next to it.
I
The clown we saw earlier is jyggling oblong pins now and people pause as they 
walk past him. A thin woman holds her four year old son by the hand, as he eats a 
pinchito with his other hand. She looks like a tourist and points to different things 
for her son. He doesn't pay attention and his eyes wander. Two very drunk men 
stumble to one of the fountains and the shorter one begins to drink from the base. 
The taller one says something to a beautiful blonde woman in shorts and laughs. She 
ignores him, and keeps walking.
Santi slurps the last of his Coke and animates the unicorn for Roberto. My bottle is 
still half full.
"You want to go over and watch them finish setting up the fireworks?" Santi 
asks me.
"Sure," I say. I pick up Roberto and wonder if I should just go home and watch 
the fireworks on television with Nieves. Nieves used to make fun of me when I was 
younger because I would cover my ears when the fireworks started to get real loud. 
She's probably at home right now, smoking a cigarette and talking with Grandma. 
I follow Santi between the fountains and towards the parking lot. There is a wide 
strip of sand between the plaza and the parking lot There are already many people 
sitting on mats on the sand, because all the tables and chairs are filled. I look for my 
mother, but don't see her because all the lights on this side of the plaza have been 
turned off.
"We could probably see the fireworks from here," I tell Santi.
"Probably," he says, and I hear the disappointment in his voice. He likes to be close 
and watch the rockets launch.
"I guess we could move in a little closer," I say and step past a couple sitting on 
a mat. There isn't that much noise, and the people seem very subdued. I look for 
more of my friends, but it is very dark and difficult to recognize anybody.
"This is good, eh?" Santi asks.
"This is fine," I say. "I wish we would have brought some mats or something, 
though."
Santi sits down on the sand and drops the unicorn next to him. I stand fora while

---------------------------------------------------

Mark Bukovec
Crime and Incident
Uncle Bud soaks up the last drop 
of gravy with his bread. He’s taking 
the rig to Charleston, he says.
The table is silent; I won’t 
beg to come with him.
The rig is powerful, the truest 
of trucks, everything Uncle Bud 
isn’t. You can feel its integrity 
inside, shaking your butt into action.
\ Nothing about him is ever this right,
%, the tattoo on his arm reads “Bub”. 
'*£xcept his eyes, the same streak of blue 
highlighting the cab, betray 
a sur^essxthat taught me 
how to ray down a good bunt.
\
The police came for him that night, 
arrested him fo?%t;itilig bad checks.
The next day I rode'hiy bike 
to the strip mines, my'faitlrs,hallow 
as puddles in the old tracks. \

---------------------------------------------------

by Riz Dagli
The crowd begins to spread, forming a narrow lane for the approaching black 
horse and rider. Santi and I don't move until the horse's head is almost upon us. With 
a loud yell, Santi and I jump to the sides simultaneously. The rider speeds past us, 
cutting a river in the crowd. His eyes are fixed on the small rusty iron ring hanging 
from a line at the middle of the field. His short lance raised, he charges for the target.
"Come on, I'amul" Santi yells.
The rider leans forward and jabs at the ring. He hits the rim of the ring with the lance 
and it flies off into the crowd to the right. There is a chorus of disappointed moans.
Today is the last day of the Sant Juan festival, and there are eight more riders to 
go. The next rider waits while a young boy in a red shirt sits on an older boy's shoul­
ders and tries to reattach the ring onto the line.
I look at my watch.
"I'm going to run home," I say to Santi.
"Now?" he asks. We have never missed a rider together since we were born. 
There is still a scar on his forehead where the stirrup of a rider hit him when he was 
six.
"I'll be back," I say. "I want to see if I can get Nieves to come out."
There is a yell as the ring is attached. Santi looks to the other side of the field to 
see if the other horse has begun running. He glances quickly at me.
"Hurry up," he says.
I turn around and pardon myself through the tight crowd. Something cold spills 
on my foot, but I don't stop. If I hurry, perhaps Nieves and Roberto can catch the final 
rides. I finally clear the throngs of people and run through the empty market towards 
my grandmother's house. Nieves and Roberto were there when I left this afternoon.
There are a few people still on the streets. I wave hello to Senor Florit and Senor 
Vasquez, who are smoking cigarettes on Senor Florit's porch. They seldom come to 
the rides anymore. I remember Senor Florit would carry Nieves on his shoulders 
when she was small. It was the only way she could see, because my mother wouldn't 
let her close to the riders. She was worried that Nieves would run out and get 
trampled by a horse. I was only one year older than her, but my mother seemed to be 
less worried about me.
As I run up the stairs to the back door of my grandmother's house, I feel a cramp 
from the red wine that Santi's father gave Santi and I.
I open the screen door and bursfinto the kitchen. I want to yell for Nieves, but I 
am out of breath. I go into the living room. Nieves is sitting in the big brown leather 
chair that my father brought from Ferrerias when I was three. It was the same year 
that he died of a heart attack. Nieves never really knew him and I only have some 
distant memories, but my mother says Nieves is just like him. I only have his eyes 
and nose. She is leaning against one arm rest, and her legs hang over the other one. 
Her slipper hangs precariously on her big toe. She is wearing beige shorts and a 
wrinkled tee shirt from Madrid and there is a cigarette in her left hand. In front of 
her, the small black and white television is on, televising the riders. Roberto is on her 
lap, fumbling with a pink bell.
"It's bad for the baby," I say and take the cigarette from her hand. She relin­
quishes it apathetically.
"It's my first one today," she says. I don't believe her, but I don't say anything. I 
don't want to start a fight. I put out the cigarette in a glass ashtray with five brown 
butts already in it. I look over at the television and see if there is anyone I know, then 
at her. She shakes the bell in Roberto's hands and he giggles.
"Come on out with me," I say to her. "We can still see the the last rides."
She pokes Roberto's stomach and he drops the bell and grabs her finger.
"We'd better hurry," I say. 'There aren't too many horses left."
She looks up at me.
"I don't want to go. I'm a little tired."
"You've been inside all day. You can't be tired," I tell her.
She rubs her right eye. I reach over and pick up Roberto. His brown eyes look at 
me steadily. There is a half smile on his chubby face and he giggles as I lift him in the 
air. His plump little legs kick excitedly, and I am glad his heavy cloth diaper looks 
dry.
"Do you want to go to the festival?" I ask Roberto. He makes a delighted burble. 
"We can watch the horsy. You want to see the horsy?” I turn around in a circle with 
him. He giggles softly and a thin cable of saliva drops onto his milk stained bib.

---------------------------------------------------

"Come on, Nieves. Lets's start him off on the right foot." I say, trying to imagine 
what my father might have said.
She swings her feet in front of her and slouches. Her small body is dwarfed 
by the big chair.
I put Roberto in front of my head and face him towards Nieves.
"Please, Mommy, can we all go see the horsy," I say in a high pitched voice. 
Roberto's clothes smell like smoke.
Nieves gets up and takes Roberto. She stares into his face and smiles. But 
then, her smile fades and I know that she recognizes something in the baby's face 
and I know how hard the festivals are for her. She had gone out the first day of 
the festival to see the parade with Grandma, Roberto, and Santi, but Santi told 
me that a group of old women were whispering behind her back and looking at 
her strangely. She hasn't gone out since. Since she could walk, Nieves was 
always the first one to wake up on the first day of the festivals. I remember her 
coming in to my room just after sunrise, because she was afraid to wake up 
anyone else. She was always eager to eat breakfast and then go see the horses She 
holds Roberto up to me.
"You can take him there if you want."
She walks into the bathroom.
"Nieves," I start, but don't know what to say. There is the squeak of the 
faucet and the sound of splashing water. Holding Roberto on one arm, I knock 
on the door.
"Come on, Nieves. Let's all go. We can stand behind the crowds."
The water stops running.
"No. I'm not going." she says.
I want to wait for her to come out, but I know she won't come with me. 
Roberto is tugging at a lock of my hair.
"All right," I say.
I walk slowly out the kitchen door and down the steps. I can hear the din of 
laughs and moans and screams from the crowds. Senor Florit and Senor Vasquez 
are still in front smoking cigarettes, and I wave the baby's hand at them. They 
wave back and I wonder what they think.
As I walk through the market, I imagine Senor Florit is telling Senor 
Vasquez that everybody makes mistakes and that Nieves is still a good girl.
I arrive at the edge of the crowd in time to see the blur of a white lance race 
through the crowd. There is loud uproar and I know that the rider must have 
caught the ring. I walk towards where Santi and I were standing. The crowd is 
more relaxed now, and it is easier to walk by the people. I see Santi's curly black 
hair. He is talking to my Aunt Gloria, who is wearing a pink dress stamped with 
blue and white flowers.
"Hello," I say.
"Hey, Juan," Santi says and begins to tickle the baby. "You missed the last 
ride. That fat rider got the ring."
Aunt Gloria is staring at the baby. There is a nervous smile on her face.
"I saw him get it," I lie. "Did you see all the rides, Aunt Gloria?"
"Yes, yes. Your mother and I were down at the start." Her smile is broader, 
but no more authentic.
"Is my mother still there?" I ask as Santi takes the baby and makes some silly 
sounds to it.
"No. She's gone to the Plaza with my mother. Isn't Nieves with you?"
My aunt knows that she's not and her polite concern is very irritating. Aunt 
Gloria was there during those early months when Mama and Nieves were 
screaming at each other. She didn't seem very concerned then, or when Nieves 
came home after the parade and was crying in the bathroom. Aunt Gloria had 
just asked her to come out because she needed to use the bathroom.
"No. She's not feeling well."
'That's too bad. I hope she's not coming down with something," she says.
"Is she all right?" he asks. Santi and Nieves arc both the same age.
"She'll be fine," I say taking Roberto back. "Come on, let's go to the Plaza."
"You go ahead, I'll be up in a moment. I want to say something to that last 
rider," my aunt says.
"See you there Señora Pons," Santi says, but I don't say anything. Aunt
Gloria was married once and divorced. She never had any children. I used to feel 
bad for her because I thought everyone woman should be a mother. As time 
went on, though, I realized that motherhood and Aunt Gloria don't go well 
together.
We follow the crowd across the field, then up the stairs to the plaza. The 
sun, half hidden behind the horizon in the harbor, casts an orange glow on the 
people's faces. In the plaza, there are dozens of colorful booths. There are food 
vendors selling barbecued pinchitos and American hamburgers. There are 
different games to win all sorts of prizes. In the center of the plaza, there is an 
obelisk celebrating the successful defense of the island against the Turkish 
invasion four hundred years ago. There are two large fountains on either side of 
the obelisk. The tall jets of water are red, then blue, then red again as colored 
lights shine on them from the base of the fountains.
Santi buys a big bag of fried potato skins and we walk around eating them. 
Roberto eye's wander all about as he takes in the sights and smells. There are 
tables and tents where many young people gather. I see Manuel Saba ter and 
Pepe Monjo, friends from school, sitting at a table with two blonde girls. Santi 
tells me they are Swedes who came in yesterday to catch the end of the festival. I 
whistle and wink to Manuel and Pepe and they laugh back. The girls laugh also, 
and I say "how are you" in English. It's all the English I know, except some 
profanity that I don't think is appropriate. The girls point to Roberto and sigh. 
Manuel asks them if they would like to have his baby, and we all laugh because 
they don't understand Spanish. The tourists are a big part of the festivals. I wish 
that last year they hadn't come, though.
The sun has gone down completely, now, and the only light is the harsh blue 
light of the plaza lights and the red and green and yellow neon lights of the 
booths. The horses walk slowly into the plaza, a throng of children around each 
one. Santi and I go to one of the game booths. It is a shooting game and Santi 
fishes around his pocket for some change. He pays for both of us and insists I go 
first. There are five small cardboard targets at the back of a booth. Each one is 
shaped like a different animal silhouette and each one has a different sized red 
circle in the center. I remember last year, I had hit the largest target, a bear, and 
only won a pack of Celtas cigarettes. Nieves had hit the smallest target, a duck, by 
a strange stroke of luck and won a green stuffed toy dog. We had smoked a 
cigarette each to celebrate, and I coughed a lot. The man behind the counter 
hands me an old air rifle.
I give Roberto to Santi and take the air rifle. Propping my arms on the 
counter, I aim carefully at the duck. I pull the trigger and hear the soft bang of 
the gun and the simultaneous thok of the pellet hitting the wooden back drop. I 
miss.
Santi laughs and tells me to get glasses. I take Roberto from him and dare 
him to hit the duck. The man takes the rifle and puts another pellet in it. He 
pumps it and gives it to Santi. Santi props his arms on the counter and aims. I 
jokingly hurry him. He begins to hum softly and pulls the trigger. There is a bang 
and I see a small hole off center in the duck's target. An old man in a tan cap and 
his wife applaud happily behind us. I pat Santi on the back as he gives the rifle 
back to the man. Santi smiles at me broadly. The man gives Santi a big blue and 
white colored stuffed unicorn from the side shelf. There is a some dirt on its side, 
and its horn is crooked, but it is the most impressive prize. There arc sounds of 
awe and envy from two small boys next to him. Santi pokes its horn onto 
Roberto's nose, who tries to grab it with his pudgy fingers.
"I'll use this to get a beautiful Swede," Santi says proudly..
Santi says he is thirsty and we walk towards a booth to get some beer. As he 
tries to rub the dirt off the unicorn, I hear my name.
I turn around and see my mother and aunt walking towards us. My mother 
has a small bag of pistachios in her hand and wears a white shawl.
"Hello, Mama," I say.
"Hello, Senora Diaz," Santi says and outstretches his hand. "Please?"
Mama pours a handful of pistachios into his palm. She holds the bag open 
for me.
"No thanks, where's Grandma?" I ask.
"She went back to the house. She said the rheumatism in her legs is bother-
