BASEBALL 
CARNEGIE VS. 
PGH. COLLEGIANSaïïiîgit líattfitt
t
i..
TENNIS 
CARNEGIE VS. 
MARIETTA
VOL. XVI. NO. 35CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1922
CORONATION OF 
QUEEN OPENS 
MARDI GRAS
Miss Josephine Whitnej 
Chosen by Student Body. 
Ceremonies Very Impres-
MOVIES FILM SCENE
FEDERAL BOARD MEN TO
HOLD SMOKER AT ARMORY
The local branch of the D. A. V. 
W. W, is giving a smoker Friday 
evening, June 2, at the Armory, 
Thackery vand O’Hara streets, to all 
Federal Board Men at Tech.
EVERYBODY COME. BOXING! 
WRESTLING! EATS! SMOKES! 
FALL IN GANG AND HAVE A GOOD 
TIME!
TRACK MEN TO MEET IN 
VARSITY CLUB ROOM AT 
12:30 THURSDAY, JUNE1
The weather had been threatening 
.a sprinkle of rain had fallen, 'but, 
then, the clouds parted and the set­
ting sun shone through in forgiving 
¦brilliancy. Early vendors were shout­
ing their wares, street urchins and 
newsboys were the first to arrive and 
as the last shafts, of sunlight spent 
themselves on far distant hills and 
twilight was waiting, all darkness,— 
pierrots, pierres, torradors, monks, 
seniors, senoritas, sultans and kings 
and Campus week friends assembled 
on the Design School lawn.
The movie men rushed in the 
. scene, with cables, lights and camera. 
A delay until the movie men got set. 
The crowd was becoming restless,— 
a titter and tatter. The constant 
hum of conversation the bluish aclinic 
light of the floodlight illuminated the 
throng.
A trumpet’s 'blast—a trembling 
hush ran through the crowding mass 
—a stillness among those straining 
costumed figures—a tenseness ex­
tending, even to the camera man, 
permeated and held that same four 
thousand who were assembled last 
Friday night, on the Design School 
lawn, to Witness the coronation cere­
monies of our Mardi Gras Queen.
The Queen, Miss Josephine Whit­
ney, stately and tall, vested in white 
satins and silks, followed by her 
ladies in waiting Misses Mary Little, 
Ann McDonald, Mary Lissfelt and 
Marian Scott—the band playing "Our 
Conquering Hero” came down tn* 
walk—the cardinal and the crown 
bearer approaching from the other 
side. “Gloom and sad have departed, 
fun and frivolity are here and in the { 
name of the spirit of Campus Week, 
Queen of the Mardi Gras.” So say­
ing he placed the crown of flowers 
on Miss Whitney's head, officially 
crowning her the first Queen of Car­
negie Tech’s greatest Mardi Gras.
Following this, the movie men had 
those who were in costume, pass be­
fore the camera. A rush too—to get 
their mugs on the film.
Four weeks ago when the contest 
for the Mardi Gras Queen was start­
ed, little interest was shown and 
many expressed their inadvisability. 
Friday night, it was the general opin­
ion that the coronation of Miss Jose­
phine Whitney, as Queen of the Mardi 
Gras, was the pi'ettiest event of 
Campus Week, one that created more 
than general interest and carried 
with it a pex-sonal interest which is 
more detrimental bhan anything else.
Congratulations to next year’s 
Queen.
There will be a short meet­
ing of all track men in the Var­
sity Club Room at 12:30 Thurs­
day, June 1. Every man should 
be present, as there is impor­
tant business to be taken up.
Be there.
MOVIE PICTURE 
HEAD TALKS TO 
STUDENT BODY
Former Post-Master General 
Discusses Uncle Sam’s Mail 
Service and Motion Picture 
Industry
PIANO RECITATION WILL 
BE GIVEN IN LITTLE 
THEATER FRIDAY NIGHT
C. W. SURPASSES 
ALL EXPECTATIONS
GUEST OF DR: BAKER
“Two things which we are fa­
miliar with and yet not acquainted,” 
were included in the addi’ess 'by Will 
Hayes, former Postmaster General 
and present “Judge Landis” of the 
Motion Picture world, before the as- 
seixibly in the Little Theatre Friday 
morning.
The theatre was filled to capacity 
and those who were unable to gain 
entx’ance had to be content with re­
maining outside tho ‘building and
More Alumni Back; Many' hea-rins his ¦i*"h by aid o£ an am'
New Features; Mardi Gras 
and Show Good
Capacity Crowd Sees 
Renny’s Place Sat.
Ross Hertz Plays Leading 
Role in Comedy
The curtain for Campus Week of 
1922 went down last Satux-day night 
with the presentation of “Renny’s 
Place,” a three act comedy.
Standixxg room was at a premium 
in the Schenley theatx*e long before 
the pex-fox-mance stax-ted, and when 
' the cux*tain went' up “Renny” from 
behind the- lunch counter of a one 
horse “hash emporium” gazed upon 
a capacity crowd of students, alumni, 
and friends of Carnegie Tech.
Little needs to be said of “Renny.” 
Those who saw his perfoxmance in 
thé role of the “little inn keeper” had 
for him nothing but px-aise. “Larx-y” 
Paquin in the role of the xxxotion pic- 
tux-e schemer, and Joseph Lazaxhxs, 
bx-ought out rounds of laughter. 
George Hoag vei-y ably took the part 
of the chairman of the Board of 1 
Commerce of Chesser, Illinois. Any : 
small town would be proud of such 
an enthusiastic boostex\ No words 
can describe Marguerite Hannan, who 
took the pax-t of “May.” The one 
word “hard” is the writers’ best bet 
and that word probably describes her 
best. Cai*l Reid surely had the 
• worst of the “autonxobile” deal if his 
actions in the role of Jake Johnson 
did him justice.
Evei'y chax-acter in the entire com­
edy perfonned admirably and the 
Courier was surely right when it said 
that any one who saw “Renny’s 
Place” and didn’t get a few thrills 
was mentally unbalanced.
Did* everybody have a good time? 
We’ll say they must have, if they at­
tended any part of Campus Week fes­
tivities. /
First came the vaudeville show at 
10:30 Thursday morning at the 
libx*ary. You should have seen the 
crowd. Standing room was scarce, 
and even the second balcony was filled 
to capacity. As for the show, every­
body went away with a happy thought 
in his heart for the initial event, the 
celebration.
Thursday afternoon the Plebe Class 
of 1925 became an active part of the 
Carnegie Class. Every Plebe in the 
class was in the parade which stretch­
ed from the front oT Design School 
to the Field House. On the athletic 
field the Plebes filed slowly by the 
coffin of Old Man P. R. and deposited 
their socks, ties, arm-bands, and caps, 
which were afterwards set fix-e to.
The baseball game with Penn State 
was halted by rain in the third in­
ning with the visitors leading, with 
one run. Friday afternoon, however, 
the game with Bethany was played in 
spite of the rain and a muddy field. 
Carnegie won, 7-G.
Dances were held nights and the 
attendance was extra good. The 
Mardi Gx-as Friday night- was the 
climax.
Perhaps the most exciting event 
was the Sweepstakes race Friday 
mox’ning, Evex*y fratex’nity in the 
campus had an entry. A trophy was 
awarded to both the speed-king and 
¿he cleverest design.
Remig’s Place was a fitting close 
for the week's events. This play, 
written and produced by the Drama 
students, shows the high type of ac- 
tox’s which the Drama Department 
turns out. The play caused one good 
laugh after another. The standing 
room was taken and a great many 
were unable to see the play.
THIRTY DESIGN PLEBES
AT FIELD TRIAL
The Design Sophs held their last 
Plebe trial on Thursday afternoon, 
May 18, in the Drafting Room.
Some thirty convicts faced the 
judge for their punishment. One con­
vict.had to wear ribbons in his hair, 
othera had various penalties, while 
some got off easy. The program v/as 
short and snappy. Several hair cuts 
took place, both for Sophs and 
Plebes.
But, no more trials!!!
Poor Sophs.
plifier.
The immensity of the postal serv­
ice hitherto unthought of by the pub­
lic was very clearly outlined by Mr. 
Hayes. He described the humanizing 
of the postal service as simply a 
1922 application of the golden rule.
In speaking of the motion picture 
'business Mr: Hayes impressed the 
audience with the degree of faibhful- 
ness in which he is taking up his 
work. He «said that the aim of the 
association of which he was the head 
was partly to develop the educational 
as well as the general value of mo­
tion pictures. He feels that there is 
a feeling among the producers in the 
motion pictux*e industry, of eax*nest- 
ness and integrity to carry out these 
purposes.
In regard to the program under­
taken .'by the governing 'body of the 
picture industx’y he said in part: 
“There is no program of reform.” 
With the feeling that the integrity 
of the motion pictures should be pro­
tected, he 'believes that ho has en­
tered on a duty where a great deal 
of good work can he done.
Mr. Hayes emphasized the fact 
that the motion picture is essentially 
an amusement. Over 20,000,000 peo­
ple visit the “movies” each day, and 
if the people of this country do not 
have their amusement, tho country 
might' be likened into a little child 
who in a spell of crying can be 
quited by the shaking of a rattle or 
in other words, by ibeing amused.
In tho closing words of his appeal, 
—“a cry for common sense and con­
fidence” impressed evexyono with the 
earnestness of his intentions. Lot us 
lay bricks, not throw them,” surely 
fitted not only his subject but his life 
in general.
Mr. Hayes shook hands with the 
Queen of tJhe Mardi Gras and divided 
the Sweepstakes prize between the 
two fraternities who tied for first 
honoi-s. The winner's of the Swope 
prizes and the George Smith Schol­
arship were also congratulated, 'by 
Mr. Hayes.
Immediately after the exercises in 
(Continued on Page Four.)
A piano x*ecital will be given in the 
Little Theater by ,the students of the 
Department of Music next Friday 
Juno 2i The program, which will be­
gin at S:15, is as follows:
Beethoven. Concerto, No. 5, in E-fiat 
major. First movement.
Alice Kirk 
Schumann. In the Evening. Op. 12, 
No. 1.
Chopin. Etude, Op 10, No. 12. 
Debussy. Jardins sous la Pluie.
Helen Belle Johnson 
Chopin. Concerto, Op. 11.
First Movement 
Dorothy Cummings 
Chopin. Three Etudes, Op. 25, Nos.
5, 9 and 11.
Chopin. Second Ballade, Op. 38.
Esta Mae Burnett 
Chopin. Concei’to, Op. 21.
First Movement 
Gertrude Robinson
NEW BUILDING 
TO BE ERECTED 
FOR FACULTY
Merril Corporation W ill Erect 
Apartment House at Cor­
ner Forbes and Beeler For 
Faculty Use
WILL COST $750.000
During tho past several years, tho 
housing situation for the Carnegie 
Tech faculty has been a serious prob­
lem. Doan Tarbell has been vory 
much interested in working out a 
method to solve this problem. We 
.are pleased to announce that a solu- 
! tion has been found.
FLYING CARS CROSS 
FINISH LINE IN TIE
Sweepstakes End With S. A. 
E. and Pi Kappa Alpha Tie, 
Delta Mu Second
INSURANCE DIR. RESIGNS; 
GOES TO NEW YORK UNIV.
Griffin M. Lovelace, Director of the 
School of Life Insurance at Carnegie
Jupiter Pluvius, after several at­
tempts finally decided to give up try­
ing to damper tho Sweepstakes and 
at 10 a. m. the shot that stax’ted 
twenty racing cars on tho coux'so 
echoed over the hills of Schenley 
Park,
The Delta Upsllon grasshopper was 
a bit too fi’isky aiul as it rounded the 
first 'bend took • one mighty jump 
which put it out of the race. At the 
first turn in tho qourso speed car No. 
1 owned 'by Sigma Epsilon Phi 
forged ahead. At the top of tho hill 
the armored car of S. A. E. caught 
up with the Sigma Epsilon Phi car. 
On the down grade tho Sigma Epsilon 
Phi car again took the lead and was 
leading* tho other by one ihwndrod 
feet, when a rear1 tire came oft’. The 
S. A. E. car soon passed tho leader 
at this point, followed 'by -several 
others 'in rapid succession.
The crowd entered mndly, girl* 
screamed, men embraced and amid 
loud yelling S. A. E. and Pi Kappa 
Alpha crossed the finishing line re­
sulting in a draw.
The prize for unique design went 
to the “Pirate Ship” of Sigma Nu.
Alpha Kappa Psi, a girls’ soroiby, 
entered tho x-aces and stuck to the 
course until engine ’trouble developed.
Cups wero presented to tho winners 
by Will Hayes. He congratulated 
them for tho spirit shown, and, being 
a true Solomon, he devised a method 
to divide a cup so that it would be 
satisfactory to both parties.
Award Fellowships 
In Retail Training
Miss Jano Wright, of 5312 Ells­
worth avonuo, has boon awarded a 
fellowship by the Resoarch Bureau 
of Retail Training at Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. Nine other 
young women, most of them teach­
ers located In different parts of the 
country, have been granted either 
fellowships or scholarships by this
Tech, has resigned to accept work. of bureau. They will begin their work 
similar nature at New York Uni- \ here in September.
Physics Dept. Furnishes 
Many Interesting Lectures
Collegiate Six to Give Dance
In appreciation of the suppox*t the 
student body has given the Collegiate 
Six this year, all Carnegie Tech stu- 
. dents I are cordially invited to attend 
\a dance, given in the Union next 
(Friday night, June 2.
I There will be no assessment. One 
) of the couple must present a Stu- 
J dent’s Registration card at the door, 
y Registration cards must be shewn, 
'because this is to be wholly a Tech 
V-p<* / and no outsiders are invited.
The meeting of the Physics’ Colo- 
quim have for some time been of 
great scientific interest. On Thurs­
day, April 20, Mr. R. W. Boreman 
gave an account of some of Crehore’s 
recent developments in the region of 
atomic theoi’y. Crehore’s specula­
tions are daring and his conclusions 
as to physical dimensions very sweep­
ing. He endeavors to reduce all phys­
ical dimentions to two.
On Thursday afternoon May 4, Mr. 
C. C. Williamson discusasd Frank­
lin’s experiment on the Leyden jar 
with movable coatings. Some recent 
work appears to show that the re­
sults of this classical experiment are 
very different when paraffin or some 
other non-hygroscoplc substance is i 
used as dielectric. Mr. P. H. Crago j 
oh the same afternoon described Ew-1 
ing’s new, model for illustrating fer­
romagnetic Induction. The revision 
of this famous model has been made 
necessary by the rapid growth In our 
knowledge of molecular and atomic 
structure.
On Thursday, May 11, Prof. H. L. 
Moore described iSir Ernest Ruther­
ford’s recent work on the Artificial 
Disintegration of the Elements. Pro­
fessor Rutherford has continued Ills 
attacks on the citadel of the atom 
(technically called the nucleus), and 
has been able by means of bombard­
ment with alpha particles to knock 
off hydrogen atoms from the nucler
versity, New York City, where he 
will go in September to organize and 
become the head of the Department 
(of Life Insurance Salesmanship in 
'the School of Commerce.
Mr. Lovelace leaves Carnegie Tech 
the end of next month for Los An­
geles, Cal., where he will organize a 
nine week summer school, beginning 
July 5, in Life Insui’ance »Salesman­
ship, under the auspices of the Los 
Angeles Life Underwriters Associa­
tion. Assisting Mr. Lovelace will be 
Dr. Edw. K. Strong, Prof. Chas. J. 
Rockwell, and Miss Lizzie Bean, all 
of Carnegie Tech.
Under Mir. Lovelace’s supervision, 
the Insurance Salesmanship School 
hex*e has grown to prominence in 
three yeax-s, graduating more than 
600 students from all the prominent 
life insux-ance companies, with 
courses of eleven weeks each. The 
retiring head attended. Vandei'bilt 
University, 1894-97, and the Uni- 
vex’sity of Berlin, 1898-99, and was 
connected with several prominent in­
surance companies in executive ca­
pacities, until he came to Carnegie 
Teoh in 1919.
Y.M.C.A. Officers Elected; 
Cabinet to be Appointed
The following men have been 
elected officers for the Carnegie Teoh 
Branch Y. M. C. A. for 1922-23: 
President, Charles F. Bowers, who 
will be a Senior in the Architectural 
Department of the College of Fine 
Arts and president of the Student 
Council for 1922-23, Vice President, 
Hugh Sprinkle, who will be a Senior 
in the Electrical Engineering De­
partment and president of the Senior 
Class in the College of Engineering. 
Secretary, Allan C. Crago, who will
of nitrogen, aluminum. phosporus, j b? a Senior in the Electrical Engin 
etc. jeering Department of the College of
On Thursday, May 18, a General: Engirjgring.
Electric film entitled “Beyond the j — ¦'-““tudent cabinet v(ill be ,ap-
• the preside'
Miss Wright is a graduate of Win­
chester School, class of 1918, and will 
be graduated if rom Yasser tills year. 
She will be engaged .in research 
work at the local institution.
The Bureau of Retail Training, a 
part of the Division of Co-operative 
Research, is engaged in the develop­
ment of personnel in retail training, 
and research work in the field of re­
tailing. Seven Pittsburgh stores 
contribute yearly appropriations to­
ward the support of the bureau. 
They are Boggs & Buhl, Frank & 
Seder, Joseph Horne & Company, 
Kaufmann’s, Lewin-Neiman Company, 
Meyer-Jonasson & Conupany and the 
Rosenbaum Company.
'Fellowships were awarded to: 
Francese R. Evans, San Antonio,. 
Tex.; Helen Baker, Everett, Pa. 
Violet Blakely, Iowa City, Iowa, 
Martha L. Dunkel, Columbus, Ohio, 
and Nan on L. Carr, Kansas City, 
Mo. The -following receive scholar­
ships: Alice E. Dibble, M.ayvllle,
N. Y.; Ida G. Beauchamp, Calumet, 
Mich.; Alice F. I-Iulett, -.Chicago,| III., 
and Miriam -E. > Kleplnger, Dayton, 
Ohio.
Upon his recommendation, the Mer­
ril System Corporation, of Pitts­
burgh, Pa., have formulated plans to 
build a large apartment house on the 
corner of Forbes and Beeler. This 
building will contain on^b hundred and 
twenty-five completo apartments, in 
addition to a large ballroom for 
faculty and student dances, swim­
ming pool, and tennis pourts. As can 
bo readily seen, this apartment will 
supply a present great demand. It 
should add to tho efficiency and gen­
eral improvement of our school, for 
it is of comparatively aa great im­
portance to have comfoi*table and 
reasonably prices 'homes for our 
faculty as it is for the students. This 
building will bo in a very convenient 
location, and from tho proposed plans, 
will present a vex-y attractive ap­
pearance.
Tho main entranco to the apart­
ment will bo on Forbes street, while 
the building will extend along Beeler 
in six complete wings, on the left 
hand side of tho street facing ForboB. 
Tho building is expected to cost in 
tho neighborhood of $750,000, work 
to begin around Juno 15, so that it 
will bo ready for occupation by Oct­
ober 15. Tho architect in charge of 
the plans is Prof. Thayor, a former 
instructor in Architecture at Carnegie 
Tech.
In addition to tho above mentioned 
plans, a large and complete, cafeteria 
is to ibo in»ballo(| for student and 
faculty convenience. Tho entire sya- 
tom is to be managed on aa nearly a 
cost 'basis as is possible, tho con­
venience to tho faculty and students 
being paramount. Although tho 
school is connected in no way with 
tho establishment, it allows a marked 
development of outside capital to 
realize 'the permanency of-our insti­
tution and tho possibilities of our fu- j 
turo dovolopmonts.
From the fact that this will pr 
vide a convenient homo for Carnoglo 
Tech faculty, it will add to our soho* 
spirit. TJio faculty will have more 
common, will bo hotter able to attend 
school activities, and will in many 
ways bring thorn in closer contac 
with the student body. The institu­
tion will bo hotter able to 'hold Iti 
trained instructors, since their living 
oxponso and their salaries will mor 
easily 'balance.
SPEAKERS FOR 
GRADUATION 
ANNOUNCED
A. I. E. E. MEETING OF JUNE 1ST 
LAST ONE OF THE SEMESTER
Tlio A. I. E. E. will moot for the 
last time this year on Thursday, Juno 
1, at 8:00 p. in., In Room 11 Machin­
ery Ha'll. E. C. SihilUi, secretary of 
tho Pittsburgh division of the A. I.
E. E. will address the mooting and
promises to give a vory interesting 
talk.
Tho officers for next year will be 
elected at tho meeting to-morrow 
night and all members should bo pres­
ent In order to cast their ballot. Tho 
nominations which woro made at tho
last meeting, are as follows: , _________
Cllfiirman—E. A. Braml. J. B. Cole-1 BOTH WELL KNOWN
man; Vico-chalinnan—H. G. JCoat, H.
J. H. Finley Will be Speaker 
and A. P. Stokes Will De­
liver Baccalaureate Address 
June 11
Iv. Huit, C. C. C. Ragsdale, 15. L. 
Reilly, 10. .1. Muust; Secretary—E. J. 
Maust, \\r. ,1. Lyman, A. Marthons; 
Treasurer—E. L. Reilly, Weutzon- 
holzer, Tadlock, w. .s. Andrews. 
Joachim.
ANNOUNCE SUMMER 
SESSION CHANGES
All Those Wishing to Take 
Summer Courses Should 
File Applications
John Huston Flnloy, formerly Now 
York Stato Conunlssionoi of Educa­
tion, will bo the Commencement 
speaker, and Anson Phelps Stokos, 
former Secretary of Yale University, 
will give tho Baccalaureate sermon 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
this year. Both are among America's 
foremost men. Dr. Stokes will de­
liver tho Baccalaureate address In 
Carnegie Music Hall oil Sunday, June 
11th. Commeucoment öxercises, at 
which Dr. Finley will speak, are 
scheduled for Juno 16th In Carnegie 
Music Hall.
—Underwood «and Underwood
In April there was issued tho final 
announcement of Sunvmor Courses 
which glvos all dotalls of tho various 
subjocts of instruction. Tlio coursos 
In the College of Englnoorlng and 
thoso In tho Collogo of Industrlos (ex­
cept coursos for toachors) will run 
eight woeks, Juno 26 to August Ifl. 
All coursos In tho Collogo of Fino 
Arts and tlio coursos for toachors of 
manual training given by tho Collogo 
of Industries will begin July 5 and 
ond August 12. Slnco tho publication 
of this announcement; howovor, there 
have boon sovoral changos- necessita 
tod by recent developments.
Tlio slx-unlt cour BO In Materials, as 
given to Juniors In tlio Collogo of En­
glnoorlng, has boon addod to tho 'list, 
with four recitations and four throe* 
hour laboratory periods, 1:80 to 5:30 
dally except Wednesday during tho 
first month of tho Summer Session. 
Tho course will bo glvon by Mr. Evans 
of tho Department of Civil Engineer­
ing.
FACULTY HOLDS FROLIC 
TO BENEFIT PIANO FUND
The Women’s Faculty Club of Car 
nogie Tech held a Faculty Frolic ii. 
the 'Carnegie Union, Monday, May 
29, beginning at 8 p. m. All the mem­
bers of the faculty, the administra­
tive staff, and their friends, were 
invited. Tho guests were entertained 
with games, readings, singing, and 
dancing. The orchestra furnished 
well-chosen selections of music for 
the dances, every other one of which 
was a waltz. The committee in 
charge, consisting of Mesdames Mott, 
Morris, Pfonts, O’l-Iara and Yoakum, 
with Mrs. Prine a.s chairman, will use 
the proceeds of this affair for the 
benefit of the Piano Fund of the 
Women’s Faculty Club.
E. C. WOODS TO SPEAK AT
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY TODAY
Mr. E. C, Woods, of, the Equitable 
Life Assurance Society will deliver 
a very interesting and instructive talk 
on “Choosing a Career.”
Mr. Woods in a good friend of the 
institution, having been instrumental 
in establishing the research depart­ment.
The talk should be of particular in­
terest to seniors. Room 209—11:30 
today.
FINAL Y. W. MEETING TO BE 
HELD WEDNESDAY, 4:30 P. M.
'Continued on Page Four.)
The final Y. V/. meeting, on Wed­
nesday at four-thirty, will be the Sen­
ior Farewell Meeting, and all Seniors 
are urged to cr ?.
MID-WEST ASSOCIATION
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
The last meeting of the club for 
this school year was held in the “Y 
Club Room” Tuesday, May 23rd. The 
purpose of the meeting v/as to elect 
officers for the coming school year, 
and to elect Mr. Moon and P. C. Me 
Kenzie to full membership.
The elections wei’e as follows: A.
Olson, of Minnesota, President; W. 
K. Jeffries, of Minnesota, Vice Presi­
dent; L, llertzman, of Illinois, Secre­
tary; C, J. Billmeyer, of Wisconsin, 
Treasurer.
Puppet is Sixth in Wit
Contest Held by Judge
In tho recent competition for the 
cup offered by the Judge, on the 
merits of best wit and humor in the 
college humorous publications, the 
Puppet made a creditable showing. 
Although not first, it came in sixth 
in tho list of eighty contestants for 
the cup, those ahead being the hu­
morous publications of Cornell, Stan­
ford, Harvard, Yale and Dartmouth. 
Our friends aci’oss the way came in 
thirty-third, with twelve other col­
lege publications tied for the same 
place. It appears the Puppet brings 
another Tri-State Championship to 
our school
Another chango hi tho scheduling 
of ono of the • Hoctlon« In Freshman 
Mathematics II (O -12) at 10:80*12:80, 
Instoad ol! 8:80-10:80, In order to en- 
ablo aludonts to combino this subjoot 
with ontraneo Physios.
In tho Collogo of Industrlos It la 
posslblo that tho Sophomore courso 
In tlio Oliomhitry or Materials will bo 
addod In oafto thoro Is sufficient do* 
mand, All students who desire to 
talco this work aro urged to notify 
Dirootor Morris at. onco.
Il; lu vory probable that tlio course 
In Chomlstry (M 6) and In Physical 
Education (C 542), scheduled for stu­
dents In tho Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College, will be withdrawn, ow-1 
lug to Insufficient demand.
All studonts now In attondanco who I 
aro planning to take summer courses 
are urgoij to consult tholr faculty ad­
visors concerning tholr sunvmor sehod- 
ulos. All candidates for admission to 
summor coursos. whothor they have 
boon at Carnoglo Tocli during the col­
lege year 102:1-22 or not,, must filo 
apllcatlon on a special blank.
These blanks can be obtained at 
the ofllco ot tho Registrar and should 
be filed as oarly as posslblo.
The coursos arranged for teachers 
and supervisors of art and of music, 
glvon by tho Collogo of Fino Arts, 
and those schodulod in tho Colloge of 
Industrlos for teachers who are pre­
paring to meet tho rocpilroments for 
state certification. Nation-wido pub­
licity has been given to tho courses 
for teachers and the response has 
been' vory satisfactory. A consider- 
(Contintied on Page Four.)
First Annual Tartan Banquet 
Is Held at University Club
The first annual banquet of the 
staff of the Carnegie Tartan was held 
at the University Club on Wednes­
day, May 24. The attendance was 
arger than was really expected and 
the banquet was very successful to 
tlio highest degree. Many former 
editors of the Carnegie Tartan, and 
the editors of the Pitt Weekly, the 
Red and Black, and the Athenaeum 
were guests of the affair. The edit­
ors of all the other Carnegie publica­
tions were there and the general 
spirit of the dinner was great. Tho 
speakers were President Hamer- 
sehlag Colonel A, P. Moore, editor 
of the Pittsburgh Leader, and William 
Poet, Spoiling Editor of tho Pitts­
burgh Dispatch. Dr. Thomas. S. 
Baker, well lcriown to every Carnoglo 
tudent, was the toastmaster, and his 
own words added not a little to the 
ooaslon. Owing to some slip up of 
the S, A. B, the insight were not i 
warded at tho bahquot as originally 
nnounced, but they will bo glvon out 
it some later date,
THEATRE FURNISHINGS
DE8IGNED BY GRADUATE
JOHN HUSTON FINLEY
Dr. Stolen» was i^cretui'y ai -Yalo 
for twenty-two years, from 1800 to 
.1.021. Ho was graduated from Yale In 
1806. Clottysburg Collogo conferred tho 
degree of D, 1). In 1010, 
lie was- assistant minister of St. 
Paul’s church In Now Haven, Conn. 
for 16 yours, university preacher at 
sovoral Now England oollogos, and 
Chairman of Trustees, American Uni­
versity Union In Europe. Dr, Stokes 
has also served as Secretary of Phelps 
Stokes Foundation, organized for ed­
ucational work among negroes, First 
Mrootor of the Educational DnparL- 
ment of I ho Y. M, C. A.,1 A. Ifl. F., and 
dirootor of many oilier orgnnlziitlomi. 
He proposed and organized the Army 
Educational Commission., and Is 
Founder el’ the National Commlttep 
tor Mental Hygiene.
Dr. Flnloy, the Comnionoomonl. 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Pledges to Honorary 
Fraternities Named
Activities and Scholarship 
Are Basis For Awards
David Evans, one of our graduates, 
receives much credit In the "Film
Seventy Carnegie men and women 
woro honored last Thursday, when 
immediately following tho (¿ualifica- 
tion exercises, F. I. Smith announced 
the pledges to th& various honoi-ary 
fraternities. As each organization 
was named, the members took places 
before the grandstand and met tho 
new pledges as they came forward. 
The men are to be congratulated on 
their well merited rewards, for the 
awards are based on scholarship and 
activities of the individuals; usually 
the result of several years hard wox*lc 
in the service of the school.
The pledges are as follows:
Sphinx
Priscilla Allison, Marguerite Hax’- 
mon, Iiortense Purdy, Ray Fine, 
Sarah West, Doi-othy Grant, Mildred 
Williams, Marion Jones, Frances Bur­
roughs, Lillian Cowan, Eleanor 
-Schomberg, Helen Dunconib.
Alpha Alpha Nu 
Dr. Thomas ’S. Baker, Ray B. Kel- 
lar, .1. A. Berno, Edward A. Brand, 
II. F Simpson, J. M. Cooper.
Alpha Tau 
Walter S. Butler, John E. Bahr, 
A. W. Hcdgren, Clement H. Hun ger­
man, Edgar V. Roberts, Albert R. 
Zelt, .Jamc-H IC. Matter,
(Continued on Page Four.)
New Student Council Meets
Tho now Student Council held a 
brief meeting with President C. F. 
Bowers presiding.
Tho following newly elected mem­
bers were present: It. p. Patterson, 
Arts; II. 0. Sprinkle, Engineering; 
L. T. Johnson and A. Ii. Zelt, Jn-’orecast" for designing the furniture|dustries; C. C. Brumbaugh, Athletic 
of tho new Manor Theatre In Squir- ('Council Different, matters to bo tak- 
rel Hill which Is unique in thlfi sec-jen up by the new council were in- 
tion because of tho architectural Wag-j formally discussed, 
nificence and decorative beauty of) H. 0. Sprinkle and Dor-obhy Grant 
the playhouse. Mr. Evanses now lo- ^vere appointed to'work up a program 
ated in Grand Rapids where he Is of activities for the incoming Plebes. 
employed by one of the largest furni- j This program is to cover the first 
ture companies in this country. | three days ol’ the fall tenn of school.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN' WEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1Ô22-4, 192
Published every week by undergraduate« of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision o£ the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
VICTOR II. STROMQUIST .........................................
Telephone—Hiland 858
H. D. SONNEMANN .
EDWARD A. BRAND 
..HELEN V. LEWIS ...
L. J. WHITEHEAD ..
H. F. DIETER 
E. J. MAÜ8T • 
ti. F. SIMPSON .
A. II. GUYTON .. 
O. A. DICKMAN ,
Telepiione—Schenley 0211 
Telephone—Schenley 9070 
Telephone, Schonley Ü070 
Telephone, Schenley 0070
............ Editor-in-chief
... Business Manager
........ Managing Editor
........ Associate Editor
..... Associate Editor
. News Editors 
Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schenley 0070
... Photographer 
Exchange Editor
J. M. COOPER....................................................................... Advertising Manager
Telephone—Schonley 0211 
W, L. REILLY .......................................................................... Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Boguo, M. Schumacher, A. Lubin, Vincent Roy, P. C. MacKenzie, 
II. H. Lefkowitz, W. J. Bolton, L. I-Iertzman, R. P. Hay, .1. A. Dougherty, M. 
S. Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. Byorly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. 
Mattson, R. J. Krodol, F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
II. II. Wilson, H. .T. McCormick, J. A. Berno, L. D. Allshouue, E. C. Frazlor.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhauscr, J. C. Major, F. II. 
Allison, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schucker and T. J. 
Dempsey.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for the make up.
the
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All nows Items must be in the student 
post olllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan Olllce—Room 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Olllce hours—Tuesday,
EXIT THIRD CAMPUS WEEK
Twice as many- ahimtai back as last year. This is a measure of 
tile success of Campus Week. Nearly every clan had some represen­
tative here; even to the “Farthest West Clan” ol! Los Angeles. A 
large num'ber of recent graduates were in evidence; which tends to 
show that these alumni, who are familiar with the celebration, ap­
preciate what it means. The older graduates, ¡who have not attended 
Campus Week, hesitate about returning. All alumni who were here 
voiced the assurance that they will be here next year. No doubt 
they will interest others.
The program was much improved. Such new features as: “Ren- 
ny’s Place,” Interfraternity Dance, Will Hays’ speech, the election 
of the Queen of the Mardi Gras and the Women’s Banquet show 
proMess.
A. few constructive criticisms are in order at this time. Regular 
bus service should have been provided for Interfraternity Dances. 
The Qualification and Call exercises were not as impressive as in the 
past, because of the condition on the athletic field. The confusion 
resulting from the crowd being on the race course at the finish was 
not. anticipated.
A big problem for next year is a solution to keep the outside 
clement away from’ the Mardi Gras. It was evident that many peo­
ple were present who were not invited. This condition will, tend to 
ruin purpose of the occasion also most of the strangers are not 
Concerned about the moral impression the alumni may acquire of the 
student body.
Next year will bring greater possibilities for Campus Week. 
The now Gymnasium will, be finished. This will afford a good op­
portunity for new developments.
A small portion of the student body did the work required to 
make Campus Week a reality. Those people did not see a big part 
of the celebration. They worked, so that the students and alumni 
would have a good time. Their only roward was, perhaps, the pleas­
ure derived from knowing that others wore mnde happy. To these 
persons wo all owe our gratitude.
Calendar of Student Events
ROAMIN’S
Now that the year. Is most at an 
end, Roamer would like. To take one 
last long fling. Tired of knocking. Sup­
pose you are too. Or wherever you 
go. Don’t forget Carnegie Tech, You 
owe her more. Than you can ever re­
pay. Let each graduate remember. 
When he meets a darn good; feller. That 
there's always room. For one more. 
Down at Tech, Don't forget your Al­
ma Mater. An’ come back when'er 
you can. You'll appreciate the place. 
When you haven’t go.t to race. To a 
class or some such other darn ol' 
thing,
To those who stay behind. To com­
plete the dizzy grind. Get together. 
Pull harder. For Carnegie’s cornin' 
up. In our (little world collegiate. 
fStart the new year right. And boost 
the team at Yale. Let's scare them 
the same. A» we did Penn State. 
With the score reversed.
We all like to kick.. About this an’ 
that. But after all’s said an’ done. 
Carnegie Is not half as bad as some. 
You work a little harder than 'most 
of tho rest. But It’u always hard work. 
That gets you the best. We've lots of 
advanluges. That are only dreams. To 
other colleges. With more cornin’. 
Every day. So while you're here. Make 
the most of it all. For Carnegie will 
soon be. The cynosure of all eyes.
Campus Week! The most wonder­
ful time of the year. Three days of 
pleasure, excitement and fun have 
passed by. The wonderful nights are 
but memories, the gay afternoons are 
things of the past. Nought now re­
mains but to make up lost sleep.
We say good-bye to the glorious 
girls who shared our good times or 
should I say, caused them? We take 
our admiring parents to the station 
and ship them back from the won­
ders of Carnegie in spring, to the 
sordid details of every-day life.
In one short week examinations will 
come again to ruin our days and nights 
with worries and cramming. Already 
we have started borrowing money to 
pay the debts contracted during the 
week.
We have sown the wind, we must 
reap the whirlwind. But say, boy, 
what wouldn’t you give to sow a wind 
like that three times a year instead 
of once? It's worth anything to 
throw aside all worries and plunge, 
carefree, into the mad whirl of Cam­
pus Week entertainment.
So here's to, Campus Week, God 
bless it, “A pilgrimage for Alumni, an 
mancipation for plebes, a memory for 
Seniors, a vacation for the Faculty, 
a boost for Carnegie, and the wonder­
ful time for everyone.
ARTS THEATER
THURSDAY, JUNE 1
Baseball Carnegie vs. Pittsburgh Collegians....................................Hero
Tennis—Carnegie vs. Marietta ............................................................ Hero
•Plx.v ................................................................8:.15. Arts Theater
FRIDAY, .JT1N.W 2
Music- Piano Roeital .........................................8:15, Arts Theator
»SATURDAY, .MINIO 11
Tennis -Carnegie vs. West Virginia University.....................................Moro
Ph'.v ................................................................ 8:15, Artis Thoutor’Baseball' Carnegie vs. Waynosburg.................. Here
SUNDAY, .MINK -I
Music.- Orchestra ................................................................ 8:15, Arls Theater
MONDAY, ,1 UNTO T>
Tennis-—Carnegie vs. Allegheny ............................................ Mere
..........................................-........................8:15, Art School
TUESDAY, JUNE (i
Tennis—Carnegie vs. Syracuse............................... l-lwe
.FRIDAY, JUNE i)
Tennis....(Inrnegie vs. Allegheny ................................................................. There
FIRST ANNUAL WOMEN’S
BANQUET IIEL1) SATURDAY
On Saturday evening, in the Mar­
garet Morrispn lunch room, tho 
women (it has never quite been de­
cided whether “women” or "girls” 
should be used in a case of this kind) 
of Carnegie Tech met together for 
the First Annual Women’s Banquet.
The lunch room was well filled; in 
fact, Miss Breed suggested enlarging 
it immediately, in preparation for the 
Second Annual Banquet.
Miss Helen P. Reed acted as toast- 
mistress; music was furnished by the 
stringers. Mrs. J. O. Miller was the 
principal speaker of the evening, and 
talked most interestingly on Women’s 
Place and Interest in Politics.
Ensemble singing added to the jol­
lity of the occasion, alumnae and un­
dergraduates all joining in “Dear Old 
Tech,” and old familiar songs.
Flowers were presented Mrs. Scales 
and Mrs. Breed as a slight token of 
appreciation for their work in the 
school.
This affair was very significant, in 11.0 tho students on big problems ‘and 
Doing the first of its kind, and will universal topics, such as tho world 
ho a big factor in bringing tho alum­
nae faculty and undergraduates into
Terrible accident on the. Campus 
last week. Workmen got somethin’. 
In his eye. Say It came out. Of the 
building. Across tho way. With the 
latest flapper. Costume on. Fellow 
was way up. On the third story. Of 
the new gym. Got too Interested. 
Leaned out too far. And fell down. 
Nope. Didn’t kill himself. Or break 
any bones. He fell In. '/'he swimming 
pool. And they throw him. A. life pre­
server. Temfic battle Cor. Half hour. 
But finally subdued the waves. And 
pulled him out. 1S'omo one said. The 
reason ho. Lo&t his balance. Was bo 
cause tho building. Js going up so 
fast. It’s hard for tho workmen. To 
maintain. Their equilibrium.
All Jokln' asldo moligli. Tho roa.l rea 
son, Thoy are so. %Slpw In gettln’. 
Start,ed. aï that tlioy, Senti tho plana 
to Boaux Artn, In Parla. To llnd out 
whiit yen. Could cali thè thing. Aln’t 
no ohe 'rollilid boro, Eccoli Irle onougl 
l'or that. Salti l.hoy’d cablo ¦Uoiimor 
Expoctln’ tho roply iiny day.
COMMENTS
THE UNPARDONABLE SIN
John R. Mott, speaking Sunday 
night to a convocation crowd that 
rivaled in size those that packed the 
Gymnasium on Friday and Saturday 
night for the A. & M. basket bail 
games, struck a keynote when he 
named indifference as the cardinal 
sin of which a college can be guilty. 
Better by far cynicism than indiffer­
ence, he said, for the great need of 
today is a need for thinkers; and if 
students are thinking enough tq be 
intelligently cynical, even though 
they are off the main road, now, the 
truth eventually will reach them. 
But if they are characterized only by 
complacement indifference, -even if 
they see what the truth is, wliat does 
it profit?
Indifference, it should be remem­
bered, however, will not be driven 
out; of a school merely by an appeal
closer understanding.
MORE SONGS WANTED BY
SONG BOOK COMMITTEES
During tho past few weeks little 
material for the Tech Song Book has 
boon received. Everybody agrees the 
need of a Tech Song Book, but when 
it comes to a show down, there is 
little response.
A collection of ge-;l songs has been 
submitted, but for a real Carnegie 
Song Book, more are needed. The 
committee expects to bring the songs 
before the student body at an assem­
bly soon.
Do you want your song sung?
Reports to the Association of 
American Colleges show that there 
lias been an increase of 50 per cent 
in the salaries of Presidents and fac­
ulty members since 1913-1914.
situation and the relation of colleges 
to it. Indlfforenco first must bo driv­
en out as It affects questions and 
onta and institutions bore on 
npus—student. government,, tho 
system, •atudlqs,,' social condi­
tions on tho campus, greater unity. 
dollnltono8s of purpose before thoro 
can bo any far-reuchlug reaction form 
Indifference In tho fact of world con­
ditions that are not as they should be.
That, dissolution of indlfforenco 
must start; with the campus and cam­
pus organizations, does not destro; 
the value of talks such, as that mad« 
by Mr. Mott. Speakers who pas 
through can only preach the general 
attitude. Each College must apply 
the lesson to itself as local condi­
tions may warrant.—Daily Texan.
All told I should say tho Plobo 
mudo a pretty POOR SHOWING on 
Poverty Day. (Three minutes for that 
0110.)
Members of the, Senior privilege. 
Committee. Told mo tho other day. 
He was going to. Oshgosh, Mich. To 
see what was. Delaying the lumbar 
They ordered for tho. Senior fence. 
Seems they are havin'. Little trouble 
greetin' the order through. But a few 
dinner parties. For tile general man­
ager. Will hustle it along. ’Spect to 
break ground soon. So don’t get too 
previous.
ROAMER.
CRITICISM OF GIACOSA’8
"LIKE FALLING LEAVES”
Giacosa's "Like Falling Leaves” came 
to the Italian stage in 1900 as the 
climax of a play-writing career which 
began thirty years before and was to 
endure a half-decade longer. It is a 
study on the conventional theme of 
the effect of mild financial misfort- 
une upon the members of an upper 
middle class aamlly. Tho step-moth- 
er and the Idle son, Tommy, flutter 
like falling leaves to their destruc­
tion. The capable daughter is ade­
quate to the situation, till, distressed 
by her family’s misbehavior, she is 
driven almost to suicide by an accu­
mulation of suffering and misunder­
standing. The latter banished, a wor­
thy though 111 bred cousin Ib adhoitly 
in the wings to administer consola­
tion.
One’s prime curiosity was what a 
Tech-trained audience would think of 
one of the finest successes of the mod­
ern stage. For such an audience, 
there would be no question of con­
sidering the long struggle to quicken 
with realism a national stage morbid 
with romanticism, no question of rec- 
organizing the adroit portrayal of so­
cial types, of appreciating an alien 
ethical atmosphere. To it, rather, 
would appeal the opportunity to set 
this acted play beside the malicious 
etehery of “The Thunderbolt',” the 
snap-dragon fusllade of Shavanism 
or the adjacent native moralizing of 
“Foolish Wives.” In such a compar­
ison, the play stands high. The fig­
ures and their movements across the 
screen are distinct; the bourgeois
scorn of art and refinement and lip- 
service to efficiency and simplicity of 
manners are congenial, and if the 
shadows in 'the picture seem mirth- 
provoking, one may blame the tone 
of the production as well as the local 
tendency to find anything but Shake- 
spere a joke.
Miss Dice’s direction of the produc­
tion is, on the whole, skillful and ef­
fective. The main defect is the keep­
ing of the general tone too light. This 
smiling over delinquencies ill pre­
pares for the subtle gradation to Nen- 
nelle’s resolve to take her life; with 
this and the sober finale, the general 
sunniness hardly agrees. Despite 
this qualification, the production is 
ingenious and telling. The focus of 
the drama is the daughter, and in 
this part Miss Lissfelt does her best 
work this year. Her method is quiet 
and repressed,, and^her temptation to 
drone the pathetic notp is avoided. 
If her climax in the third act is not 
as apparent as it might be, it may 
bo alleged that the scene is designed 
to get its effect by suggestion not by 
affirmation. Mrs. Reid as the honest un­
observant bankrupt father gets little 
opportunity until the last trying aot 
which Miss Lissfelt makes appealing 
though the tempo is needlessly slug­
gish. Miss Grey hardly extracts all 
the possibilities from the role of the 
step-mother. Besjfles seeming too 
young, she underestimates the sinis­
ter emotion which - leads the, woman 
Into doubtful Intrigue. Miss Grey is 
too unalluring and too uniform in her 
shrill abusivenoss. Mr. Kappos’ Tom­
my is his host (If not quite satisfac­
tory) achievement. Making a male- 
flapper of 'Pommy does not prepare 
for his sordid downfall. Mr. 
Kappos over-simplifies the most com­
plex character of tho piece. Mr. Pa- 
quin Is suitably cast for tho stolid de­
pendable preachy Massimo. If he vi-. 
olal.es tho' first commandment by 
playing for 'points, ho may urge that 
aiaï audience likes them neatly wrap­
ped and handed across tho lights. 
Conventional comic types nro taken 
by Miss Paxton as a Fronch modiste, 
and Messrs. Szold and Thorne as a 
pair of Btago-artlsts. Miss Goldberg 
Is an atmospheric assistant as Lucia, 
the faithful servant.
Of Miss dolien’s two sots, the sec­
ond is tho more pleasing. Both seem 
to have been executed (and Mont 
Blanc or whatover lighted) with a 
ramshackle carelessness which one as­
sociates „with high schools and not 
with tho Department of Drama.
Bill Pfouts, Pattern 
Maker, Philosopher
Sketch of His Career as Re­
vealed in Interview
When Andrew Carnegie planned to 
build Carnegie Tech, he picked out 
Dr. A. A. Hamerschlag as the man 
to take charge of the enormous re­
sponsibility of such an undertaking. 
Dr. Hamerschlag proceeded to pick 
the men he thought most capable’ of 
developing the various departments 
Andrew Carnegie had in mind; Mr. 
William Pfouts was one of these 
men.
Mr. Pfouts, Universally known at 
Carnegie Tech as "Bill Pfouts,” has 
been connected with our school since 
its infancy. He knew Carnegie Tech
WILLIAM PFOUTS
when Central Building was only a 
blue print in an architect's office.
Before he 'became connected with 
our school he was employed by the 
William Tod Co., of Youngstown, O., 
in charge of pattern making. Mr. 
Pfouts drew up plans for the pat­
tern shop, scarcely any change being 
necessary in the past ten years. The 
efficiency of his system of training 
men is shown by the stability of the 
course. Unlike many other instruc- 
tors, Mr. Pfouts does not think that 
the work of his department most im­
portant in the training of the en­
gineer.
“Bill’* has the interest of the whole 
school at heart. This is shown by 
his popularity at various smokers and 
banquets of the students. We don’t 
need to mention his ready joke or 
bit of humor, for- his reputation has 
far preceeded him. He is also a 
philosopher, as any one can see from 
the information pasted on his pattern 
shop bulletin hoard.
Speaking of students, Mr. Pfouts 
agrees at least once with ex-president 
Wilson. Mr. Wilson once said, “A 
young scholar learns more through 
association with the faculty and stu­
dents than he does from his books.” 
This conforms in entirety with Mr. 
Pfouts’ idea. He says that, “When 
tho student shows the right attitude, 
he makes friends with his instructors 
and fellow students, this association 
meaning more to him than does his 
studying.” He believes very heai’tily 
in any school event that will bring 
the Carnegie Tech boys and girls to-
gether.
event.
Campus week is one such
In reference to Campus Week, he 
marked, “This is one event which is 
a howling success, a sample of what 
we should have ten times a year. We 
don’t have enough traditional events. 
When Carnegie Tech was still a very 
small school, the fellows used to have 
a big rumpus about every two months. 
These stunts are the things to pro­
mote true Carnegie spirit.” Mr. 
Pfouts never forgets the struggle 
Carnegie Tech made to rise to its 
present height. Nor is he stingy in 
his praise of President Hamerschlag.
“Bill” always telljj of his three 
fads: his wife, his daughter, and his 
boy. The latter two evidently are 
intended to/be Carnegie material, his 
daughter at present being a student 
in the College of Fine Arts. We pre­
dict a Carnegie engineer of the boy, 
and hardly see how he can fall short.
COSTUME ECONOMICS CLUB
ENTERTAINS H. E. CLUB
One of the most enjoyable features 
of Campus Week was the picnic in 
Frick’s Woods, given by the Costume 
Economics Club for the Household 
Economics Club. This may have been 
an effort to “show the H. E.’s up” 
as to cookery, and. if it was, we must 
admit it was fairly successful.
FACULTY NEWS AND NOTES
Miss Breed goes to Lynchburg to 
give alumni day address at Randolph- 
Macon College, at Lynchburg, Va. 
She will speak on “Women and the- 
professional spirit.”
Dr. Baker is to speak at Kittanning- 
High School commencement June 2.
Carnegie Men Wanted
To sell the retail trade a com­
plete line of seasonable neck­
ties. Pleasant, profitable, sum­
mer and spare time work. The 
man who meets our require­
ments, will be, his own “boss” 
and the manufacturer's direct 
representative. Direct selling 
means lower prices to the re­
tailer and large commissions to 
our men. Write us briefly 
about:
Yourself.
Territory you prefer.
When you can start.
American Webbing Co.
Department 37 Neckwear 
Providence, Rhode Island. 
Successful men will be offer­
ed similar all-year spare time 
work.
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MEN’S FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
's
MIMWMi«
m
H
m
î
mm
‘Business ‘Building
Te
e
f<n
¦^HE selling of commodities is fundamental in 
every business, and selling life insurance af­
fords the maximum of satisfaction and re­
muneration. For the life insurance salesman 
is a business builder and finds innumerable ways to 
servp the community and make himself indispensable 
in the conduct of modern affairs.
The life insurance salesman is not only a business builder 
but he is in business for himself, creating a competence per­
manent and continuous. It is the best paid work for those 
xvho are ambitious and willing to work, and who have the 
character and stamina necessary to stamp their individuality 
upon the business and on their community.
The traditions and practices of the John Hancock are 6uch. 
that the college graduate can take a peculiar pride in represent­
ing this company. You are liable to remain in the business 
you enter on leaving college. Before making a definite deci­
sion inquire into life insurance as a career. Write, “Agency 
Department.”
gitl aífVOLí.lXIN3Lí5C
of Boston. Massachusetts 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
THOUSANDS of smokers have proved it—and now give the verdict 
to you — Of all the other' tobaccos NATURE has produced — none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes—
None has the delicious
THE VALUE OF EDUCATION
Education means money.
In Massachusetts the average per­
son goete to school seven years: in! the time at lier home in Boston. 
Tennessee, the average person goes > She has been
to school throe years. In Massachu­
setts tho average income is $200.00 a 
person, in Tenesse it’s $116.00 
In the United States as a whole the 
average college, graduate earns ?2,-‘ 
000.DO a year, the average high school 
graduate $1.000.00. the average ele­
mentary school graduate $500.00 
Each day spent in high school is 
worth $25.00 to eaeli pupil, each day 
spent in college ?55.00. This is more 
than the average boy or girl can earn 
by leaving school and going to work.
Only one in a hundred of our people 
is a college graduate,1 yet 36 per cent 
of every 100 congressmen have been 
college graduates, while 50 per cent 
of our presidents, 54 per cent of our 
vice presidents, 69 per cent. of. our 
supreme court judges, and S7 per 
cent of our attorney generals have 
had collega degrees.
'hiere Is n book called “Who’s Who 
in America..'’ This book contains the 
names of those persons who are well 
known because of their good works, 
Tho person who cannot, read and write 
has one •chance In 150^000 to get. his 
name Into this book; tho grammar 
school graduate one in ^,250; the 
high school graduate one in 1,600; 
the college graduate one In 180. tho 
honor students in college one In three. 
Does education- pay?
IT DOES.—Exchange.
MISS BEULAH HATCH
GETS LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Miss Beulah C. Hatch, assistant 
Professor in Household Economics in 
Margaret Morrison College, has been 
granted a year’s leave of absence' ef­
fective at the close of the school 
year- Miss Hatch intends to sjiend
member of the
Plebes Fail to RaiseJCain 
While Sophs Wait in Vain
The beginning of Campus Week 
was observed on the part of the 
Plebes by intense quiet. Usually, 
every year at quaJification time, the 
plebes have a desire to show their 
spirit in various ways, such as paint­
ing up the campus, and decorating 
the surrounding scenery with their 
class numerals.
This year the spirit was conspicu­
ous by its absence. It was expected 
that the plebes would he out for a 
good time, just before their regula­
tions were removed, ibut such was not 
the case. The dorms were silent, and 
no one could guess the reason why.
The “reason” was not far away. In 
•fact it was very near. Across the 
street in the field house were gath­
ered about one hundred sophomores, 
who had assembled there from the 
dorms and fraternity houses to he in 
readiness for any outbreak on the 
part of the plebes. From 12 p. m, to 
4 a. m., the watchful waiting was 
kept up, and besides waiting, the most 
exciting- thing to do was to play 
bridge.
It is to ho hoped that the class of 
'20 has enough, spirit to start a. cele­
bration, whether they succeed 
finishing it or not.
FLAVOR of thefinestTurkish— 
None gives the ENJOY­
MENT of the finest Turkish— 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish— 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BEST—to reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
-you have but to smoke 
/MURAD—
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself—/ ’
faculty, since 1019. , Slio is a grad­
uate ol! Simmons 'College, class of 
li)OS, with the degree of B. S., and 
for tho following two years was an 
instructor at Simmons’ in Household 
Economics. In the year of 1910-11, 
Miss Hatch was an instructor at 
Pennsylvania State College, and re­
turned for. the next seven years to 
teach at Simmons’. She joined the 
staff at Carnegie in 1919.
Alumni of the University of Mich­
igan, will have a novel home-coming 
by wireless. Prominent members of 
the faculty and musical clubs will 
furnish the program.
U

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Mountaineers Trimmed 
By Carnegie Cinder Men
Plaid Strongest on Track, W. 
Va. in Field Events
As the final curtain to the athletic 
events of Campus Week, Carnegie 
Tech defeated West Virginia Univer­
sity in a dual track and field meet 
at Schenley Oval on-Saturday after- 
n’oon. The final score gave the Plaid 
91 1-2 points to 43 1-2 for the Moun­
taineers.
The Skibos were supreme in the 
track events, but the West Virginia 
squad had the edge in the field events. 
However this advantage was not suf­
ficient to keep the Tartans from win­
ning by a good margin.
The summaries:
1-Mile Run—Won by Dykeman. 
Tech; second, Kelley, Tech; third, 
Farrel, Tech. iime 4:43.
100-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly, 
Tech; second, Lockwood, Tech; thirdt 
Hubert, Tech. Time, 10:2-5.
120-Yard High Hurdles—Won by 
Arnold, Tech; second. Knutti, West 
Virginia; third, Smith, Tech. Time 
17: 2-5.
880-Yard Run—Won by Blesch, 
Tech; second, Mockett, West Virrinia; 
third. Farrell, Tech. Time, 2:42 2-5.
220-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly, Tech; 
second, Lockwood, Tech; third, Da­
vies, West Virginia. Time :22.
iS'hotput—Won by Courtney, West 
Virginia; Shillinger and Sprinkle, 
Tech, tied for second and third. Dis­
tance, 38 feet 4 inches.
220-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by 
Care, Tech; second, Knutti, West 
Virginia; third, Arnold, Tech. Time 
:25 4-5.
Discus—Won by Kalabich, Tech; 
second, Garred, West Virginia; third. 
Courtney, West Virginia. Distance. 
118 feet.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Szold, Tech;
second. White, Tech; third, Brum­
baugh, Tech. Time :51.
High Jump—Won by Hill, West 
Virginia; second, Smith, Tech; third, 
tie between Lockwood, Tech, and Cun­
ningham, West Virginia. Distance, 5 
feet 11 inches. -
Two-mile—Won by Miller, Tech; 
second, Dykeman, Tech; third, Green­
law, Tech. Time, 10:23 2-5.
Javelin—Won by Cunningham. 
West Virginia; second, Christman, 
West Virginia; third, Blssei, Tech. 
Distance, 165 feet 2 inches.
Broad Jump—Won by Dornick, 
West Virginia; second. Kelly, Tech; 
third, Lockwood. Tech. Distance, 21 
feet 6 3-4 inches.
Hammer—Won by Bruffy, West. 
Virginia; second, Nesbit, Tech;, third. 
Sprinkle, Tech. Distance, 116 feet 4 
inches.
Pole Vault—Won by Stults, Tech; 
second, Matter, Tech; third. Hill, 
West Virginia. Height, 11 feet.
Jimmy Robertson Wins 
Pentathlon Second Time
With a minimum of 9 points to his 
credit, Jimmie Robertson won the An­
nual Carnegie Tech Pentathlon last 
week. It is the second time he has 
won it in the two years it has been 
conducted here. Pittman was second 
wiht 13 points and Szold third with 
16 points. The first fliree places 
in each event went as follows:
Broad jump: Won by Pittman; sec­
ond, Robertson; third, Szold; dis­
tance, 21 feet;
Javelin Throw: Won by Robert­
son; second. Pittman; third, Harvey; 
distance, 13S feet 8 inches.
200 Meter Run: Won by Zzold,
second, Robertson, third; Pittman, 
time 22 4-5.
Discus Throw: Won by Shilling­
er; second, Robertson; third, Harvey; 
distance 103 feet 8 inches.
1500 Meter Run: Won by Szold; 
second, Robertson; third, Pittman, 
time 4:50.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
Golf and 
Sport Oxfords
Approved styles by experU 
enced golfers and every golf 
er knows that his shoes are 
a mlqht important part of his 
equipment.
Style No. 6040 — Smoked (tl •"] 
Horse, Tan Trimmed, Fi- \ / 
bre Soles. Rubber Heels. Ili I
Style No. 6041—Tan Calf,f 
Mahogany Saddle, Duflex' 
Soles, Rubber Heels..........I
"We’ve Fitted ^Feet For Fifty Years”
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWNEAST LIBERTY
I JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY %
•J. CRAIG AND FORBES STREET A
X Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year, y
A BELL PHONE X
y Cla88e8 each evening. Private lessons dally.
V A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL £
Congratulations—Campus Week 
Committee.
In every way last week was the 
greatest week since tho engineer of 
this column has been in this school, 
and it would not be far amiss to say 
it was the greatest in the history bt 
Carnegie Tech. It cannot arid will 
not be denied that Campus Week was 
absolutely and positively the very 
best yet On THAT,, no argument is 
necessary.
But, in the way of interest, and of 
bearing on the future, the results of 
the meeting of football officials, coach­
es, an derpresentative of the various 
colleges of the East takes foremost 
place. The purpose of this meeting 
was primarily to rate football games 
of each date in respect to their im­
portance in the East, and after which, 
upon the basis of such ratings, to se­
lect the officials for each game. The 
ratings of Carnegie Tech games 
gives us much for elation, for it 
shows beyond a doubt that Carnegie 
Tech, as a football factor is rising 
steadily, and getting more and more 
into the lime-light heretofore held by 
the elite—in other words, the Tar­
tans are becoming so good that they 
are ranked as a part of that group. 
For instance, the Yale-Carnegie Tech 
game on September 30 was ranked as 
the most important game in the coun­
try for that date. Also the Carnegie 
Tech-Wash-Jeff game was ranked as 
the fifth most important. The Plaid- 
Penn State set to received a rating of 
sixth. The Tartans’ game with No­
tre Dame was not ranked because it 
is not an Eastern College. Officials 
were chosen for the 'three games 
rated, but are not yet ready for pub­
lication.
Another event of importance sec­
ond to none came in “Wally,J Steffen 
honoring the school with his presence. 
He arrived Friday morning, and aside 
from taking in all .the events of Cam­
pus Week, had a meeting with the 
football boys, and delivered a typi­
cal Steffen speech at the Alumni din­
ner on Saturday. Without a doubt 
“Wally” received the biggest hand of 
them all.
His talk was most welcome, and it 
was pleasing indeed to hear his refu­
tation of various insinuations, and un­
called for attacks upon the collegiate 
athletic world. He deplores the fact 
that a number of sport writers of 
daily papers throughout the country, 
during the lull between winter and 
spring sport seasons see fit to fill 
their columns with abuses of the 
cleanliness of collegiate athletics.
We are glad to hear a man of 
“Wally’s” reputation come out in such 
words. They go down as the words 
of a man who is intimately connected 
with the inside affairs of the matter, 
and are therefore of much more 
weight than the words of a sporting 
writer endeavoring to fill up space,
which, does not meau to hit local 
writelis, but those employed in prac­
tically every case by a syndicate.
We, like “Wally,” and local writers 
believe the game is greater than they, 
and that such scribed only hurt them­
selves.
Resume.
During the week ¡only one home 
baseball game was played, but, that 
one game I It was just about as ex­
citing as they make 'em. The oue 
game away from homo was lost, but 
even the Pirates and the Giants lose 
once in a while, so what kick do we 
have especially when the team that 
played the best ball won? Grove 
City played errorless ball—Carnegie 
erred twice—and hit twice as often, 
and in the pinches, which means 
Grove City had the better pitching.
The victory of the tennis team over 
the Alumni shows that our Varsity 
boys are coming along in great style, 
and acquiring experience necessary 
along with natural ability. The Alum­
ni team is a good one. and any team 
that puts over a 7-2 victory on' them 
is a good one also, i Congratulations 
to every single member of the var­
sity tennis team. Nice try Alumni— 
it is such events as that which 
strengthens the loyalty of Alumni.
Grove City Crimson Nine 
Defeats Plaid Baseballers
'X
Which will next year’s
captain wear?
I
T DOESN’T need much wisdom to predict that 
next year’s nine will be captained by a ’23 
man or maybe a ’24 man.
This is no affront to underclassmen. Years of 
steady plugging must go before you can handle the 
man-sized responsibility of running a team.
That this is j ust, seniors will be the first to assert. 
They have seen how well it works for team and col­
lege. Then let the seniors keep this point of view, 
for soon they will find how closely the principle 
applies to themselves in the business world.
Captains of industry are not made overnight. 
Don't expect to step into a managership right 
away. Before you can lead, you’ve got to serve 
in the ranks awhile.
This is best for your organization and best for 
you. The time and energy you put in working up 
from the bottom, taking the bitter with the sweet, 
getting the upperhand over your job, will stand 
you in good stead when you have won through 
to executive position.
AVhen you have learned how to handle detail 
work, you can begin intelligently to direct other 
men to do it, and thus free yourself for creative 
planning.
1 ou who intend to be captains, have patience. 
Your year will come and so will your chance.
Since 1869 makers and distribuían of electrical equipment
Grove City batted their way to a 
clean-cut victory over Carnegie Tech 
¡Saturday at the grounds of the for- 
mer. The score was 6 to 2. The 
game was hard and closely contested, 
except in the eighth inning, when the 
score had been tied at two runs each.
The Skibos got their runs in the 
fifth. Mills led with a single and ad­
vanced to second on Robertson’s sac­
rifice. Weiss singled and Mills cross­
ed the plate. J. Doherty singled, ad­
vancing Weiss, but was thrown out at 
second on a fielder’s choice, which 
landed R. Doherty on the initial .sack. 
Durkin singled, driving Weiss across 
with the final tally.'1 Godden flied to 
center, ending the stanza.
Carnegie almost scored again in 
the eighth, when, with two out, God­
den hit for three bases. Irwin, how­
ever, failed to connect safely and was 
out from short to first.
Grove City also scored twice in 
the fifth inning. With one out, Ste 
phanian was hit by a pitched ball. 
Smith doubled, seeding Stephanian 
home. Bible was out from pitcher 
to first base. . Ripper then reached 
first and Smith scored on J. Doherty’s 
wild throw to first. Tench was out 
at first.
Nine Grove City men stopped up 
to the plate in the memorable eighth 
and the side was not retired until 
four runs had 'been driven in. Ripper 
led with a single, Tench struck out, 
and Fleming singled. Sellers, drew 
a pass to first, loading the sacks. 
Filer connected isafely, driving in 
Ripper and Fleming. Filer then 
stole fjecond and he and Sellers were 
driven 'home through hits by Lowers 
and Stephanian. Smith was thrown 
out at first and Bible. Hied to left 
field, ending the riot.
The game was important, in that 
it will have a material affect on tho 
Tri-State championship race. Grove 
City College won through better hit­
ting, cleaner fielding, and air tight 
pitching.
Weiss deserves much credit for his 
sterling performance on the mound 
for Carnegie. It was the first game 
he had played in since the injury 
to 'his leg, which has kept him on the 
bench nearly the - entire season. The 
score:
Carnegie 00002000 0—2 7 2 
Gro. City 0000200 4 x—6 12 0
Two 'base hit—Bible. Three base 
hit—Godden. Stolen bases—J. Dcfr 
herty, Smith, Filer. First base on 
balls—off Lowers 2, off Weiss 2. Hit 
by pitched ball—Stephanian. Sacri­
fice hits—Fleming, Robertson, Filer. 
Struck out—¡by Lowers 4, by Weiss 
2. Umpire—Tate.
Carnegie Wins Game 
From Bethany 7-6
Durkin's Hit Saves the Day 
For Carnegie Tech
VARSITY TENNIS TEAM 
EASILY DEFEATS ALUMNI
The heavy rain on Thursday put 
the damper on the Bucknell match 
which was to be played last Friday 
of campus week.
The Alumni team htfd been plan­
ning and waiting for this inevitable 
day on which they might take over 
the varsity team. That which had 
promised to be a very closely con­
tested match was quickly upset when 
the 1922 team began to chalk up set 
after set, until they had won 7 of 
the 9 matches.
The old time Alumni manager, Ed­
die Hirsh, has stated no reasons for 
the overwhelming defeat, but without 
his statements the spectators could 
easily see that the Alumni had been 
short of practice.
The manner in which Toots Davis 
treated Gapt. Duke Nevillfe in the first 
set was almost encouraging enough 
for old boys to let them think that 
they really had the goods to deliver. 
Anyone who understands Duke’s play­
ing v/ould surely say that he was 
not playing up to snuff, even though 
he did earn the next two sets.
Things didn't work well for Jack 
Beatty in his battle with Connie 
Schwartz. At almost every oppor­
tunity, Connie demonstrated how to 
place the ball where Jack wasn't.
Keil played his own easy game and 
won over Steve Stockslager, who 
could do no more than make a good 
showing against a better man at 
singles. This just happened to be
Last Friday afternoon on Carnegie 
Tech’s diamond, the Tartans succeed­
ed in defeating1 the Bethany baseball 
team by the score of 7-6. The field 
was in poor condition to play base­
ball, but in order not to disappoint 
the large number of Alumni who 
wished to see the team in action, 
Coach Enos Kirkpatrick decided to 
play the game.
Warwick twirled the entire game 
for the Plaid and pitched excellent 
ball, while Betihany was forced to 
use three pitchers before the game 
was comploted.
Bethany led in the scoring up un­
til the seventh inning, when Carnegie 
scored a run making the score 2-2. 
Both teams then scored two runs in 
the next inning and Bethany in the 
first half of the ninth inning scored 
two runs making the score 6-4 in 
their favor.. After two men were 
down Roarke singled and Zook 
doubled giving Bethany one run. El­
liot the next' man up singled giving 
Bethany a two run lead and one 
which seemed 'big enough to win the 
game.
In tho last half of this inning 
Prichard was substituted for Ran­
dolph and McCaw was sent in by 
Coach Kirkpatrick to pinch hit for 
Mills. Prichard had a delivery 
which seemed to amuse tho large 
crowd which witnessed the game and 
every time that he wound up, the 
crowd gave the Skibo yell. To say 
the least, this continual cheering 
'bothered Prichard and he lost con­
trol and walked McCaw. Robertson 
then struck out, but Warwick singled 
scoring McCaw, who had advanced to 
second ibase when Prichard commit­
ted a balk. Hcdlund ran for War­
wick and Joe and Ray Doherty 
walked filling tho bases. E. Wells 
then took the mound for Bethany 
and after putting two strikes on 
Capt. Durkin tried to slip the third 
one over, but Durkin drove tho ball 
into deep center for a two bagger 
scoring Hcdlund and .Too Doherty and 
winning the game for Carnegie by 
tho score of 7-6.
The support given to ¡both pitchers 
was poor but this was unquestionably 
due to the poor condition of the field.
(Continued on Pago "Four.)
tho alternating time for Coploy to 
trim his opponent, Phil Marshall. 
Phil didn't expect to lose tho third 
set, after having givon Coploy only 
two igamos out of tho second sot.
As far back as tho history of com­
bat between Rog. Marshall and Bob 
Schmortz can be traced, not a single 
time have they played that they 
haven’t had to play off the rubber 
match. In this particular event tho 
two sets were won by Rog only be- 
causo Bob was not used to using those 
musclos which are called upon when 
quick action is demanded.
Whether II. Smith walloped Wolf 
by superior handling of tho racquet 
and by groater ability to place his 
returns or by tho poor playing on 
tho part of oWlf, couldn’t bo judged 
in tho one match sinco both men nr 
new to most of tho onlookers.
In past matches tho machine com­
posed of Beatty and Stockslager 
never knew what it was like to suffer 
a defeat. But ngw Carnogio Tech 
can boast of a team of doubles that 
can mow ’em all down. Turn about 
each team won a set, but the toriffic 
speed displayed by Schwartz and 
Neville won them the well deserved 
deuce set.
The combination of Phil Marshall 
and Toots Davis was two much for 
Keil and Copely, but this was not a 
slaughter by any means. The manner 
in which Phil and Toots slowly ap­
proached the set was the feature of 
that match.
Bob Schuetz and Wolf cinched the 
third set of their match by a 6-1 score 
and thereby winning the other of the 
two matches for the alumni. Rog 
Marshall and II. Smith captured the 
first set, but they didn’t seem to pull 
together at the right time.
All during the matches, Manager 
F. I. Smith had on a perpetual smile, 
for he was all tickled over the out­
come.
The summary of the Matches:
1922 Alumni
Schwarts—Beatty (6-3) (6-3).
Neville—Davis—(0-6) (6-3) (6-3). 
Keil—Stockslager—(6-4) (6-2).
Capley—(Phil) Marshall—(6-3) (2-6) 
(6-3).
(Rog.) Marshall—Schmertz (6-4)
(8-10) (6-4).
H. Smith—Wolf—(6-0) (6-2). 
Schwartz—Beatty (2-6) (6-1) (11-9). 
Neville—Stockslager—
Capley—(Phil) Marshall (6-8) (12-10) 
Keil—Davis— (11-9)
(Rog.) Marshall — Schmertz—(6-3) 
H. Smith—Wolf— (10-12) (1-6)
Mountaineers Hand 
Carnegie 8-1 Defeat
Game Makes it 2 Out of 3 
For West Virginia
The West Virginia Mountaineers 
slugged their way. to an S-l victory 
over tho Tartan baseball team last 
Monday afternoon. Homer Martin, 
the Mountaineer catcher, was the lead­
ing hitter for the West Virginians 
collecting three hits, one of them good 
for two bases, in five times at bat. 
Ho also made two spectacular catches 
of high fouls back near the bleach­
ers. Aiken, the visiting first base­
man, made the prettiest catch of tho 
day, when he took a high fiy off tho 
bat of Harry Durkin in the fourth 
inning and ran over the hank almost 
to the tennis courts in completing it. 
Evans pitched good ball, keeping tho 
hits well scattered except in tho sev­
enth inning when two hits and a long 
sacrifice fifty brought in the only run 
for Kirkpatrick’s boys.
For Carnegie, Joe Doherty was the 
outstanding star, with two hits out 
of four times at bat, and his usual 
brand of good fielding. His error was 
an unavoidable one, and was rather 
more to his credit than against it. 
The bases were full when Widmyer, 
West Virginia left fielder, smashed 
a hot one at Joe, who could not handle 
it quickly enough to make tho play at 
homo and turned and threw to second, 
which was uncovered. Skinny Mc­
Caw struck out sbven and handled 
seven assists and one putout. Joe 
Mills, in right field, made a pretty 
catch, and had his hands on tho ball 
at another time, but could not hold 
to it because of the rough condition 
of the ground which kept him oil’ 
balance.
This game gavo West Virginia tho 
1922 series, two games to one, but 
when tho 1923 season rolls around, 
there should bo a differont story to 
toll.
Reserves Defeat Allegheny Hi
Last Thursday/. tho lirql. day ol' 
Campus Week, as a preliminary to 
tho Ponn Stato-Carnoglo Toch base­
ball game, which didn’t materialize, 
tho Reserves defeated Alloghony 
High by a 3-0 count. Tho gamo lasted 
only six Innings, as only a certain 
timo was allowed to play tho gamo 
slneo tho Ponn State had to start by 
3 p .in.
Tho acoro by Innings:
Rosorves .................................002 lOx—8
Allegheny .............................oom 000—0
SPRING SPORT SCHEDULE 
RAPIDLY DRAWS TO CLOSE
The 1922 season for spring sports 
is rapidly drawing to a close. The 
baso-ball team makes Its last home 
appearance tomorrow, this final gamo 
bolng with the strong Pittsburgh Col­
legians. The Collegians hold State to 
a 4-1 score, which when comparing 
it to tho S-2 licking that the Skibos 
received from State, indicatos that the 
Tartans must bo on their -toes all the 
time. Saturday \vlll oloso tholr sea­
son when Waynesburg will bo met 
there.
Tho tennis schedule calls for two 
matches this week and threo next 
week. Marietta conies to Pittsburgh 
tomorrow, and Saturday tho team 
travels to West Virginia to play a 
return match tliere. Monday, Alleg­
heny is met on tho Allegheny courts. 
Allegheny beat Pitt 4-2. which moans 
that we have to boat Allegheny. 
Tuesday is tho big match of tho sea­
son. when Syracuse brings a power­
ful team to the Tartan courts. It will 
be recalled that the great Carnegie 
team of 1920, composed of Captain 
’Stockslager, Beatty, Marshall, and 
Davis beat Syracuse, that year 
champions of New York State, by1 • a 
score of 5-1. If this year’s varsity can 
display tho splendid tennis they did 
against tho alumni last Saturday, It 
ought to come out of tills contest 
again with tho long end of the scoro.
= The Oakland 
== Community House, 
= 3904 Forbes street, 
== is maintained by 
= educational funds 
H of the Methodist 
= Episcopal Cliui-cli 
== for the purpose of 
== promoting Chris- 
E= tian fellowship 
= among students of 
= every creed. It is 
= open from 9:00 A. 
H M. to 11:00 P. M. 
= every day.
“WALK IN”
Plaid Racquetcrs Again 
Conquer Wasli-.leff 5-1
Wednesday afternoon, tho Plaid 
tennlsers took a trip to llttlo Wash­
ington, and returned with a 5-1 vic­
tory over Wash.-.Toff. Tho matches 
resulted Identically as tho frlst tour­
nament of the season with the Presi­
dents, In that Alexander of Washing­
ton & Jefferson won his match, Last 
time, he defeated Keil, while this 
time, Connie Schwartz fell before 
him, which somewhat explain» Kell's 
defeat by him during the first part of 
he season. In other words, Alexan­
der is good.
All of the remainging matches were 
carried off by Carnegie Tech in close 
and hard-fought matches.
m'i£W H£'m
Davies & Hughes
"Dopondablo"
Hnttoro anrl Mcn’n Furnlnhurn.
3015 Forboa 
Sohonloy G<108-M. Noxt to Strand Thoator.
Do You Need Extra (Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courscs in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Language«, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by cormepondvnca. Inquire 
how crcdits earned may be applied on present college program.
®lj? Hmuprmty nf (Eljtcagn
HOME OTUDY DEPT.
Bonus—bona—bonum!
IMAGINE the agony of the old oaken 
soldiers of Rome who were compelled 
to shave soapless before meeting the enemy. 
Not so good!
Today—bonus or not — you college vet­
erans will not decline a good thing. Will­
iams’ Shaving Cream does away with all tense 
expressions and puts you in the right mood.
That rich white lather that stays rich 
and thick, softens whisker resistance and 
reduces razor action to 
a pleasant painless purr.
Williams’ Shaving Soaps 
have been a tradition 
among college men for 
generations.
Williams
am
0201022348232353485348484823232353532348232323532348

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FÒURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MAY 31, 1922 _f
* IAHE Extra touch 
of style that on­
ly a bat-wing can 
give is emphasized 
in the new English 
twill ties; their ex­
ceptional designs 
and colouring are 
found only in
CHBMBY
CRAVATS
All Genuine Cheney Cravats have 
the name stamped in the neckband
SOLD BY
DAVIES & HUGHES, 3615 Forbes Street 
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. OCII, 3605 Forbes Street '
Coach Wally Steffen Speaks at
Third Annual Alumni Banquet
The truaiecB and. officer» of the 
Carnegie InBfcLt14.te.oi Technology and 
the graduating Senior» were the 
guest» of the Alumni at the third 
annual Alumni banquet. A total of 
live hundred and fifty Carnegie men 
and women gathered in the, English 
Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel at 12:00 
noon, Saturday, May 27, at the larg­
est Alumni gathering whicih ha» yet 
¡been held.
Throughout the entire assemblage 
wan that spirit of good fellowship, 
enthusiasm, and encouragement which 
characteristic of true Carnegie 
Clansmen. The old grad» saw again 
many of their former chums and 
classmates. The sincere hand shak­
ing and the hearty greetings of wel­
come which came from the meeting of 
friend with friend were evidences 
that the old spirit of fellowship and 
friendship still existed between them, 
even though their business callings 
separated them into distant parts of 
the country.
They sang “Dear Old Tech” with
of Technology, President A. A. Ham- 
er»chlag, Wally Steffen, football 
coach, Secretary Thos. S. Baker, Al­
bert Henderson, ’08, Henry Hornbos­
tel, Architect of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, Frank Jl. Haaren; 
'14, Graduate Manager of Athletics, 
and Fred R. Cogswell, '12. All.the 
speakers were given a rousing wel­
come by the clansmen.
Col. S. II. Church and John L. Por­
ter expressed their satisfaction at the 
wonderful development of Carnegie 
Tech whose progress has been un­
equalled in educational annals.
Wm, Reilly, '21, who came all the 
way from the Pacific Coast for 
Campus Week, told of the recent or­
ganization of the Southern California 
Clan by Fred E. Foster, ’08. This 
Clan already has twenty-five members 
and its officers are C. M. Crawford, 
'13, President, and Wm. Reilly, '21, 
•Secretary-treasurer. President Ham- 
erschlag spoke about his recent trip 
to Europe and the wonderful surprise 
,and delight he experienced in finding
College Graduates 
In Railroad Work
CURIOUS IS STUDY OF 
COLLEGE NICKNAMES
Railroad Career Highly 
Recommended
nil the vim and vigor of-their school everywhere evidences of the good
.I«««« M/if niV flin “lnftfvmnf.iv/J ____—.1 ............ j. ~r r~\—
Basing her refusal on her opinion 
that the awarding of high or low 
grades to students was not right, 
Miss Caroline Whitney refused the 
honor proffered her by the Vassal- 
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Through­
out hér college course, Miss Whltnoy 
has protested against Lho practico of 
gauging scholastic ability by compara-
tlve grading. She Js said to be the. 
first student to decline the honor.
days, and set off the “locomotive1 
with a rousing roar. The Collegiate 
Six played favorite songs, many of 
which were sung by the entire throng. 
That element for which our school 
is remarkable, the spirit of knowing 
how to work and when to play per­
meated the whole gathering. As 
Henry Hornbostel said, “There must 
be play back of all work. Even our 
faculty must have its ‘shindigs’ now 
and then.
The toastmaster, J. B. Sprague, 
’09, President of the Alumni Federa­
tion Board, welcomed the returned 
Alumni, the graduating Seniors, and 
the trustees of the institution. Mr. 
iS praguo introduced the speakers, 
“Bill” Reilly, '21, Col. S. H. Church, 
President of the Board of Trustees 
of the Carnegie Institute, John L. 
Porter, Chairman of the committee
When dancing’s done away with 
When girls have lost their looks,
When dresses short no more are 
worn,
Then—I will turn to books.
—Exchange. <>f trustees on the Oarnegie Institute
ONE BRAND ONE QUALITY
One Size Package
All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of 
the finest tobaccos are concentrated 011 this one 
cigarette—CAMEL.
Into this ONE BRAND, we put the utmost qual­
ity. Nothing is too good for Camels. They are as 
good as it’s possible to make a cigarette.
Camel QUALITY is always maintained àt the 
same high, exclusive standard. You can always 
depend on the same mellow-mild refreshing smooth­
ness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos 
¦—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
And remember this! Camels come in one size 
package only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to 
make the greatest saving in production and packing. 
This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s 
ôiie reason why you can get Camel Quality at so 
moderate a price.
Here’s another. We put no useless frills on the 
Camel package. No “extra wrappers!” Nothing- 
just for show! ,
Such things do not improve the smoke any more 
than premiums or coupons. And their added cost 
must go onto the price or come out of the quality.
One thing—and one only—is responsible for 
Camels great and growing popularity—
That is CAMEL QUALITY.
work and great influence of Carnegie 
Tech men and women. Even in Paris 
he found Carnegie Tech art graduates 
successfully competing with French 
artists.
The introduction of Wally Steffen 
as a speaker was the signal for a 
mighty cheer of welcome, evidence of 
his great popularity. Wally wan­
dered back to nine years ago, when 
he first came to Carnegie Tech and 
saw the wonderful opportunity for 
development. Throughout his entire 
regime, Wally has stood for clean 
athletics played, on the square. He 
said, “Carnegie Tech occupies a good 
position in the athletic world because 
it is respected by all competitors who 
know- that we play a clean game and 
that we .play to win. A big tribute 
to our standing in the athletic world 
is shown in the fact that,' without 
solicitation, we were offered games 
by the leading colleges of the coun­
try, including Yale, Harvard, Chi­
cago, Illinois, Indiana, and Notre 
Dame."
Scotty I-Iondei'son, captain of the 
first Carnegie Tech football team, re­
called some of the football games of 
the 1907 season with Pitt and W. 
Va. He expressed a desire that there 
be closer co-operation in the business 
world between Carnegie Tech grad­
uates. .
Frank H. Haaren told of the in­
creasing prestige of Carnegie Tech in 
the athletic world, evidence of, which 
is shown in the fact that the Yale- 
Cnrnegie Tech game on September 
30, 1922, ds ranked as the most im­
portant ganio in the country on that 
date.
Fred R. Cogswell, '12, introduced 
two resolutions which had been passed 
by the Alumni Board: first, the elec­
tion of Louise W. Oarnegie as the 
first honorary member of the Alumni 
Federation; second, the election as 
honorary members of the Alumni 
Federation of President Iiamer- 
schlag, Col. S. II. Church, Henry 
Hornbostel, William McConway, Tay­
lor Allderdice, and John L. Porter. 
These resolutions were carried un­
animously.
The Alumni Board will endeavor to 
have Mrs. Carnegie as the honor 
guest for next year’s banquet. Much 
credit is due to Mr. Tilbroolc and Mr 
Batman for their work in «helping to 
make the banquet a successful climax 
for the alumni activities of Campus 
Week.
Mr. Samuel Rea, president of the 
Pennsylvania system, made in part 
the following In reply to inquiries re­
garding the value of collegiate prepa­
ration in railroad work, in an open 
letter liecently.
“The young man graduating from 
college can obtain a foothold In the 
railroad business and advance more 
rapidly than the man who lacks such 
training. In all branches such train­
ing is an advantage, and in the exec­
utive branches it has become a necs- 
sity. Civil and mechanical engineer­
ing are the lines that fit men best for 
this work, particularly the former. 
Civil engineers start as rodmen and 
work up through the transportation 
grades. Mechanical engineers start 
as special apprentices in the Altoona 
shops and work up through the motive 
power grades. The need is always 
greater for the transportation men, 
though it is not menat to disparage 
the chances of men who are accepted 
for motive power training. The pres­
ent vice president, General W. W. At- 
terbury is a motive power man, be­
ing a graduate of Yale and having 
started as a Bpeclal apprentice at Al­
toona.
“There should also be a good field 
for college men in the traffic, account­
ing and financial departments. Many 
of our present leading traffic officers 
and several in the accounting depart­
ments have taken college work, nota­
bly economics. There are other de­
partments which would interest the 
college man—purchasing, finance,
real estate, legal, and the secretary’s 
staff, though in these, a scientific 
training would be of little direct ad­
vantage outside of the effect of gen­
eral mental development.
“Over half of our present officers 
and directors in the Pennsylvania 
System are college graduates. Those 
who have reached the high places 
from the ranks without college train­
ing are very few out of a large num­
ber of employes, while the larger, 
number of executives have risen 
from a much smaller trained group.
‘Railroad work could not be rec­
ommended to any young man whose 
principal conception of success was 
to become immediately rich. There 
was a time when the business was 
being rapidly promoted and largely 
speculative in character that such a 
prospect held forth. But the specu­
lative era has now passed, and the 
work of a railroad officer has become 
one of the most stabilized of the pro­
fessions, both from the viewpoint of 
remuneration .and certainty of con­
stant employment.
“For the young man with a good 
mind, quick brain, sane common 
sense, and thorough training in his 
college, who desires to enter upon L 
life service of great activity and in 
terest, which with capacity, devotion 
and hard work will always pay him a 
satisfactory living, and hold reasona­
ble assurances of an excellent salary 
in Ills maturer years, there is little 
that could be more highly recom­
mended than a railroad career.
The study of nicknames is always 
interesting, no less in the case of col­
leges than with boys. A review of 
the names adopted by the student of 
various colleges reveals neither rhyme 
nor reason.
It is not hard to understand why 
Michigan University students are call­
ed Wolverines; those of Wisconsin 
University,, Badgers; of Minnesota, 
Gophers;, of California, Bears; and 
of Oregon, Beavers. These names 
are taken from the animals popular­
ly supposed to represent those states.
But why should the students of 
Columbia University be called Lions; 
those of Yale, Bulldogs; of Prince­
ton, Tigers; Hastings College, Bron­
cos; Yankton College, Greyhounds; 
Williamette UnSversity, Bearcats; 
Grinnel College, Pioneers; Oklahoma 
University, Soon^rs; Iowa State Col­
lege, Cyclones; Hamline University, 
Pipers; Wofford College, Terriers; 
Vanderbilt University, Commodores; 
Southern California, Trojans; or 
Florida, Alligators?
The list is not confined to animals. 
Thus the University of South Caro­
lina students bear the appellation of 
Gamecocks Nebraska University. 
Cornhuskers; Randolph-Macon, Yel­
low Jackets; the University of Rich­
mond, Spiders; Ohio State University, 
Buckeyes; Iowa University, Hawk- 
eyes; Indiana University, Hoosiers; 
Kansas, Jay hawks.
There is much duplication. A liasty 
scrutiny reveals the athletes of seven 
colleges calling themselves Bulldogs, 
five going under the title of Tigers, 
and two accepting the cognomen of 
Coyotes.
How would you like to be called 
Pikers, as the students of Washing­
ton University, of Tar Heels like 
those of the University of North Caro­
lina, or Flickertails like the members 
of the University of North Dakota?
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason­
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Advertisement.
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
pnces. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
NEW LOCATIONMISS O’LEARV
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladies’ and Men’s Clothes. 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE 
Cor. De Sota St. 389 Schenley.
SPEAKERS FOR GRAD­
UATION ANNOUNCED
VSKIBO INN IVRemodeled and X 
Enlarged
CLEAN, 'i
WHOLESOME S 
FOOD
Served at best prices | 
CIGARS CANDY '£
CAMPUS WEEK WORTH WHILE 
FOR ALL VISITING ALUMNI
Editor of Carnegie Tartan.
Dear Sir: I am certainly glad that 
I came back to dear old Tech for 
these few days and have enjoyed 
every minute of it. At first, I didn’t 
think I would attend the alumni 
Luncheon Saturday, as I had other 
plans, but I decided, I would go, and 
now after it is over I wouldn’t have 
missed it for anything. The luncheon 
was complete in every detail, and I 
am going to try to get back for Cam­
pus Week every year. I met many 
of my old classmates; it was a great 
reunion for me, and I think every 
other Alumnus who was here for 
Campus Week will say the same.
Yours truly,
An Alumnus.
Now some of you Alumni who were 
not here for Campus Week and could 
have been here—aren't you sorry you 
weren't? Well, next year is coming, 
so you have another chance.
PLEDGES TO HONORARY
FRATERNITIES NAMED
(Continued From Page Oneo 
Tau S'ignui Delta 
Honorary Membership: Mr. Bret- 
hold Nebel, head of Department of 
Sculpture, holder of Rome Prize 
Sculpture 1915-19.
Painting: [Howard Rathman, Mary 
Fife.
Architects: W. M. Burke, C. H.
SYSTEMATIZE YOUR 
FINANCES 
System in handling your 
income is essential.
Deposit regularly — pay by 
check -T- periodically increase 
your saving account — set 
aside each month a fixed sum 
for investment.
We cordially welcome your 
account, even though it be 
small.
Capital and Surplus 
$12,000,000
Mellon N.PittsonalBank
h, Pa.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ............................8 to 9
Just to announce the arrival of an 
8-pound baby girl on May 9th to Mr. 
and Mrs. G. M. Whisler (Sc-'20).
.LOARlEil GaST UFHY
FROM BETHANY 7 TO 6
(Continued From Page Three.) 
Robertson performed exceptionally 
well for Oarnegie in left field and 
several times thrilled the crowd by 
his remarkable fielding.
Box score:
CARNEGIE TECH
ABRBPOAE
J. Doherty,s..........412140
R. Doherty,1..........4011700
Durkin, 2 ...............512251
Godden, m.............„412000
Irwin,' c ..................401322
Cappe, 3 .................401121
Mills, r ..................311000
Robertson, 1...........310300
Warwick, p.............401060
Hedlund ..................010000
..............010000
36 7 11 27 19 4
BETHANY 
AB R
Bovwn, 8 
Ron rice, s 
Zook, 1-1 
Elliott,
E. Wells, 1-p .............5 1
La Porte, 2 .............-1 1
Randolph, p .............8 0
Smith, m .................4 1
Gehring, r-1 .............8 0
Prichard, p .............0 0
N. Wells, r ...........0 0
(Continued From Page One.) 
speaker, is an editor on the Now York 
Times, and President of the Univer­
sity of the State of New York; For-, n ^ . , „. -¦ - •
merly, he was President of the Col-1 Sorb<fr» E- 0. Anderson, C. E. Lande- 
lege of the City of New York, and New J- J* Keil.
York State Commissioner of Educa-1 Dragon
tion. He is a graduate of Knox Col- J- A- Anderson, Howard A. Bow- 
lege, in 1887. The degree of LL. D. .man, Edward Brillhart, Chester C. 
has been conferred on him by Park I Brumbaugh, John D. Evans, John N. 
College. Knox College, University of ! Franklin, Ralph H. Humbert, Logan 
Wisconsin, Princeton, Tulane, Wil- T- Johnston, Rody Patterson, Theo- 
liams, Dartmouth, Hobart, Columbia, dorè S. Repplier, Hugh O. Sprinkle, 
and Bdown. L. H. D. degree was con- Victor H. Stromquist, Albert Zelt, 
ferred by Colgate and by New York ,• Delta Skull
University. G.. Lloyd Comfort, Robert A. Smith,
He has been president of three col- Vincent A. Roy, William H. Ryan, 
leges: at Knox from 1892 to 1S99, at I James A. Robertson, Teasdale Bar­
ine College of the City of New Yorlcjney, Wilbur B. Cunningham, Thomas 
from 1903 to 1913, and now president N. Griggs, Earl Gross, Charles N.
of the University of the State of New 
York. Dr. Finley was . also professor 
of politics at Princeton from 1900 to 
1903.
He served as a member of the*Board
Hollingsworth, Earnest A. Berglund, 
Enos M. Johnston.
Druid
O. B. Newman, W. Koppes, E. M. 
Gilbert, Milo Matter, D. A. Gardner,
of Arbitration in the eastern railway i H. N. Smith, Cy Hoeninger, E. C. 
controversy in. 1913 and 1914 trustee \ Frazier, J. Mills, M. J. Kahlfeltz, 
and director of various educational | R. E. Hughes, F. D. Brooks, 
and philanthropic .organizations, and
director of several insurance com­
panies. In 191S and *1919 he was Com­
missioner of the Ainerican Red Cross 
for Palestine and the Near East and 
a member of the Army Educational 
Commission. Among honors confer­
red by f foreign governments are the 
Order of the Rising Sun, Japan; 
Knight, Legion of Honor, France; 
Chevalier of Crown of Italy; and 
Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. He is 
the author of many notable works, 
and editor of Nelson’s Encylopedia.
CHANGES ANNOUNCED
IN SUMMER SESSION
37 G 10 25 9 G 
xBatted for Mills in ninth. xxRan 
for Warwick in ninth.
Carneg'ie .........0 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 3—7
Bethany ......0 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 2—G
Stolen bases — Robertson, Mills, 
Zook, Roake, Elliot 2. Two. base 
hits—J. Doherty, Godden, Durkin, 
LaPorte, Brown, Zook. Double plays 
—J. Doherty to Durkin to R. Do­
herty, Randolph to E. Wells. Sacri­
fice hits—Robertson, Gehring. Strike 
outs—by WarKck 3, by Randolph 
Prichard 1. }/—i on balls—Warw 
2, Randolph I (
(Continued from Page One) 
able number, of the regular day stud­
ents of the College of Fine Arts are 
also planning to take, advantage of 
the summer courses offered in the 
college.
•It has been definitely decided to 
give the field work in surveying, 
scheduled from June 19 to July 29, at 
Camp Louise Carnegie, near Freeport.
------------------------I The work of putting the camp in con-
PHYSICAL DEPT. FURNISHES j dition for use has already begun. The 
MANY INTERESTING LECTURES two-weeks course in surveying sched­
uled from August 30 to September 13 
will be given on the campus.* Stu­
dents taking summer . surveying are 
required to pay an instructional feo 
and should call at the office of the 
Registrar for their fee card in ad­
vance of the opening date of their 
course. Professor Stanton is in charge 
of all courses in surveying.
Arrangements have been made 
whereby luncheon will be served in 
the Margaret Morrison lunch room 
throughout the Summer session.
(Continued From Pago One.) ' 
Microscope" was shown by Professor 
ITower and Mr. Miller. This film il­
lustrated In an artistic manner the 
modern ideas of the structure of atom. 
The same afternoon Mr. W. W. Head­
ings discussed the Effect of Oxygen 
and Hydrogen on the Emission of 
Electrons from Hot. Platinum. This 
work which lias some bearing on the 
behavior of thermonic vacuum tubes 
was done at , the Rice Institute in 
Texas.
On Thursday afternoon. June 1. in 
Room 113 Science, at 4:30 p. m., Mr. 
E. R. Owen will describe some of 
R. W. Wood’s work on fluorscence 
and its connection with photochemis­
try. Mi«=i£i§rald Harper will discuss
the P/tgss.. 'on of X-rp~—.
ed are i^s tws* attend
?r>ate ^ ssions.
‘ ^ - -....¿¿¿J
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service....... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 4-fl 
clothes for the next pi, 
party? Let ;the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
rêÉfy tfrrar*
rnmim
NewestCreation
MOVING PICTURE HEAD
TALKS TO STUDENT BODY
(Continued From Page One.)" 
the theater, the Seniors and members 
of the Campus Week committee met 
with Will HaVes in" Exhibition Hall. 
During his stay here Mr. Hayes -was 
the guest of pr. Baker. ,
Peppermint fla­
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
“melts in your 
mouth," leaving 
the deliciously 
flavored gum 
center to aid 
digestion, 
brighten teeth 
1 soothe
BASEL
5ct
i .
