wenty-cent Checking Fee Proposed
by Melana Nelson
CMU is considering a twenty-cent check 
cashing charge for the seventeenth time.
The primary reason is that the Univer­
sity is in danger of losing its National 
Direct Student Loan and Federally Insured 
Student Loan programs. These are a key 
source of financial aid at Carnegie-Mellon. 
A college or university must show “due 
diligence” says Van Horn, in order to keep 
its loan programs. Students should be sent 
notices about their loans, for example, and 
Mr. Van Horn admits that CMU has 
neglected this area in the past. “Our real
objective is to maintain eligibilityhe said.
Thus, because of the loans, and because 
of the University’s cut-back trend, a check 
cashing fee is again being proposed. The 
present Cashiers’ Office personnel are 
needed to perform the loan-related duties. 
The proposed fee would be used to cover 
the cost of hiring an additional person to 
cash checks, and the 3.3 cent charge CMU 
must pay the bank for every check it 
deposits.
The options seem to be to charge for 
check cashing or discontinue the service. 
“We would seriously consider eliminating 
the service,” said Van Horn, but elimin-
flk tartan
March 18, 1975 Volume 75 Number 21
Music Head Well -Received
| by Chip Yeager
Around the Fine Arts building, reaction 
to the recently announced appointment of 
Robert Page as the new head of the Depart­
ment of Music is generally favorable. Stu­
dents and faculty alike regard Page as a 
strong-willed administrator who also, by 
his national reputation in music education 
and performance, will reflect well on 
CMU’s music school.
These indeed, were the criteria that 
CFA Dean Akram Midani cited in choosing 
Page to take the post, vacant for the past 
year except for Acting Head Roland Leicfe 
Midani, CFA Provost Edward Schatz and 
President Richard Cyert made the final 
decision to invite Page, one of seven can­
didates, to come to CMU. Originally the 
choral director and educator was one of 
three candidates invited to visit CMU. 
These three candidates were chosen from a 
list of some fifty, proposed over a year ago. 
Since that time, a CFA committee pruned 
the list. Page, in his visit of two weeks ago, 
made a favorable impression on the faculty 
and students who sat in on his informal 
talk.
Still, the faculty wished to have three 
more candidates considered for the post. 
These candidates were also asked to come 
to CMU, but Dean Midani was reluctant to 
discuss them, saying that in a narrow field 
such as music, “it’s not ethical to talk 
about the other candidates after a man has 
been chosen—such talk can harm their rep­
utations.” Midani explained that, no 
matter what his qualifications if a 
musician is passed over in favor of another 
man for a post, rumors and whispers about 
his competency crop up. The CFA Dean 
then pointed out that among the candi­
dates, one who was rejected is being con­
sidered for music director at another well- 
known college. “That’s the only reason we 
have all this secrecy,” he concluded.
The dean would not discuss the persons 
under consideration, but other CFA people 
would. Some complained that Cyert made 
up his mind about hiring Page just after 
meeting the man, and before all the can­
didates had a chance to present themselves. 
Some music students -felt that the other 
candidates were just as qualified and just as 
enthusiastic about working at CMU as
Page.
But the final decision lay with Warner 
Hall. Midani decided on which way the 
Music Department should go, and hired the 
man he felt would best carry this out. The 
Dean stated that the Department should 
“aim at the education of musicians ... and 
take it seriously by graduating highly 
qualified music educators.” The music 
head should also develop enough programs 
for the whole campus without sacrificing 
the quality of the department.
Leich said that one question often
continued on page 10
Susan Olshansky and Dave Groupephoto by Courtney Larson
Senate finance Over-ADocates
by Charles Mitch
Finance Committee chairman Dave 
Groupe announced at the March 12 Stu­
dent Senate meeting that his committee 
allocated approximately $10,000 more 
than it expected to receive from the Activ­
ities Fee for next year.
Groupe presented a budget totaling 
$102,782, while the expected revenue
ation is not likely to occur “in fairness to 
out-of-town students.”
Van Horn remarked that out-of-town 
students without Pittsburgh bank accounts 
would be hard pressed to cash checks if the 
University didn’t offer the service. Also 
under consideration is increasing the check 
limit from fifty to one hundred dollars. 
This has not been done previously, because 
the Cashiers’ Office was not equipped to 
handle such large sums of cash. The limit is 
being reconsidered, but probably won’t be 
raised because students and faculty general­
ly cash checks amounting to $10-50 per 
person each week.
The check issue is being raised at the 
Student Senate meeting by Dean Swank, 
and is also being considered by the Faculty 
Affairs Committee of Faculty Senate. The 
administration is also interested in reaction 
through memos, direct comments, etc. 
Says Mr. Van Horn, “We’re always open to 
student input.”
from the activities fee for ’75-’76 was es­
timated at $96,000 by the administration. 
Alternative solutions to the present budget 
dilemma were discussed, including across 
the board cuts of 15-20% of all organiza­
tions; a roll-back to last year’s budget 
allocations or a re-examination by Finance 
Committee of all current budget appropri- 
«-ontinued on page b
Marius Misiunas, New Program
Director at WRCT. photo by John Shettel
WRCT Revises 
Program Format
by Jeff Englund
Disc jockey Marius Misiunas assumed 
.duties as WRCTs Program Director last 
Tuesday, March 11, bringing with him 
plans for a series of dynamic format 
changes. General Manager Dave Hochen- 
doner, who made the appointment, said 
that Misiunas was the most competent man 
on the staff for the position.
“He’s pro and knows the business,” 
Hochendoner said. “Hopefully it will be a 
change for the better.”
A junior, Misiunas replaces Amie Karr, 
who will graduate in May.
On the day Misiunas took over, he in­
itiated a series of changes in'program for­
mat. Beginning April 1, he plans to put the 
station' through more radical changes, 
meant to enliven WRCT’s air signal with 
the excitement peaking at Spring Carnival.
The new program director also has out­
lined several long-range plans for the im­
provement of WRCT, most of which he 
hopes to get well underway by the end of 
this semester.
“I want to develop more enthusiasm in 
the staff itself and boost its morale. A lot 
of them don’t think their work is apprec­
iated, and we’ve got to get them to know 
that it really matters.
“We’ve also got to establish a consistent,
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-March 18,1975editor’s note
Lemon Julius
Imagine—ten years after graduating from your alma mater, 
Camegie-Mellon, you’re a trumpet teacher in Cleveland. One 
of your students is an aspiring trumpet player who is looking 
for a university to attend. Do you think back ten years and 
recall when some dean what’s his face gave a pep talk at a 
senior party, telling you to recruit students and remember 
your school? / doubt it. What you do remember is the kind 
of education you received and the climate of your college 
years.
Wh/Te the senior party with speaker AI Julius was a valiant 
effort to instill alumni support, the evening came off as an 
ego trip for Julius, and a successful affair, due only to free 
wine and cheese. The event was typical of a CMU approach 
which has instilled hostility in students for four years. Rather 
than a welcome, students were greeted by an appeal to 
recruit.Out of 574 seniors, 140 entered a segregated room, where 
a separate table with refreshments was designated for each 
college. Even if you weren’t acquainted with the majority ol 
students standing by your college table, you felt like you 
were supposed to stand there. Maybe, you should stand by 
the table so you could meet the dean, shake his hand and say 
goodbye, or more likely, hello, nice to meet you after four 
years. CMU encourages a classification philosophy; if you’re 
one of those freaked-out Fine Arts students, you remain with 
them, the engineers are expected to nurd, and nobody has 
quite figured out what those humanities and social science 
students are supposed to be doing. There were many ac­
cusations that the wine was watered down by H&SS and that 
MIS’ was actually disguised fruit punch. Seniors share many 
of the same emotions.
They’re deciding about their future, slightly nostalgic and 
somewhat apprehensive about leaving school. / wish the 
alumni office had recognized these commonalities. And 
moreover, / wish that students, regardless of department, 
were encouraged from freshman year to relate with all stu­
dents within the University. Mixing with students who hold 
numerous interests is the beauty of the university system.
Sitting in hootennanny style, one felt it was a pep rally 
rather than a senior party. After four years, / doubt that 
students wanted to hear their deans remind them of what a 
great experience CMU was. Students would prefer remember­
ing the dean because he took the time to help and guide them. 
Rather than inspiring appreciation for an education, the 
deans appeared to suddenly come out and affirm their com­
mitment to Carnegie-Mellon. Of course, a dean should be 
committed—not at the senior party, but throughout the time 
a student is looking for answers.
AI Julius was kind enough to answer questions about how 
he arrived at his present position of KDKA busybody. But 
with senior worries of where to turn next, who wanted to 
know the success story of Julius? Drama students who would 
like a career in acting found Julius' story frustrating. The 
non-drama student who desires a television career perceived a 
lack in their personal careers. And those non-Pittsburghers 
who have been studying for four years and haven't watched a 
TV set, didn't know who this Julius was. I thought this was a 
party for seniors, not AI Julius.
The alumni office is the only department on campus which 
gives the seniors a party and attempts to give the senior an 
extra bonus for reaching atumnihood. Too bad that one must 
suspect their motives. After paying your graduation fee, it's 
difficult to appreciate this bonus. If the University wants 
seniors to remember CMU, a simple party where seniors 
could merely share their feelings would suffice. A brochure 
concerning alumni affairs would have put the alumni benefits
I’m sure students won’t remember the senior party. What 
they will remember is the knowledge or lack of it they 
gained, the friends and enemies they made, and just how 
much CMU cared. . . -Debbie Siegel
©<• -Wo cuAv ef o&SL
^-\e> 1
letters
Editor:
This letter is a concurrent re­
sponse to your February 4 edit­
orial regarding the University’s 
neglect for student welfare and 
personal convenience.
I would like to mention a 
specific situation: the main
gymnasium. The time alloted for 
public use is relegated to not 
more than two afternoon hours 
on Mondays, Wednesdays and 
Fridays, and three hours on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays. The
rest of the time ihe gym is used 
for academic and organized ath­
letic activities. It is only on Sat­
urday that no regular organized 
activities are scheduled, but alas, 
it is on this day that the Univer­
sity chooses to hold various 
intercollegiate meets.
I am sure I am not the only 
student who has afternoon 
classes, and is therefore unable to 
avail of the gymnasium’s already 
inadequate public facilities.
Why can’t the University ex­
tend gym hours till midnight 
seven days a week? Students on 
work study could be hired to
monitor thè entrance doors dur­
ing these extra hours. I see no 
reason for closing the gym on 
Sundays, the one day students 
are free of all academic sched­
ules.
It is imperative that both the 
student body and the admin­
istration become aware of the 
rather insensitive and arbitrary 
handling of student services on 
this campus. Hopefully, we 
might see some results before the 
semester is over.
Alan Sycip
tartan
EdHor-itxIiwf: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Managar: Lester Nathan
Nam Editar Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: 
Trapeze Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Features Editor:
Mark Evan Chimsky 
Greg McKenna 
John Shettel 
Dave Kanner 
Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, rtoger Geddes, 
Dave Girdeny, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbeil, Susan N. Klein. Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee. 
John Mangano, Charles Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz, Chip Yaagw, Lisa Zeidner.
c Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier Vivian Kerstein, Ron Lasser
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 3news comment
letters
—TACKY TRAPEZE—
Editor:
I would like to know the 
exact significance of Robert 
Patla’s cover drawing on the 
March 11 issue of TRAPEZE. 
True, I’m just a dumb CIT stu­
dent who can’t appreciate the 
message that the artist is obvious­
ly conveying through his draw­
ing. As I said, I’m not sure of the 
exact significance. But I have a 
good idea of what this work rep­
resents. It simply confirms our 
long-held suspicions. The people 
of the TRAPEZE staff have their 
heads up their — too. How 
’bout it, fellas? Fewer tacky 
spin-offs from National Lam­
poon, huh?
Aside from this bit of Ordure, 
though, the Sense of History sec­
tion stood out brilliantly. So 
what’s it doing in TRAPEZE?
J: Preston Critzer, 
B.Y.O.B.
— NO SMOKING—
Editor:
I am writing concerning the 
“No Smoking” area in the Skibo 
Cafeteria. I’m sure that at this 
point many readers are asking 
themselves, “What No Smoking 
area?” It is particularly to those 
persons that this letter is addres­
sed.
Yes, however small it is, the 
establishment of an area where 
persons not caring for smoke or 
smoking may go to eat is defin­
itely a step in the right direction.
I have recently observed, though, 
that some smokers continue 
using this area undaunted by the 
signs, if aware of them at all.
Smoking, like many other 
things in life, is a privilege, not a 
right. It should only be allowed 
at certain places, and at certain 
times. Smoking is the drawing of 
a foreign material into the body, 
material known to be injurious 
to health. It is everyone’s right, 
however, to do as they wish with 
their own body, but not if the 
rights of another are interfered 
with.
The air in Pittsburgh has been 
found to be among the worst in 
the country, and when combined 
with the quality of the food 
served in Skibo it is enough to 
make anyone concerned for his 
health. Consideration should be 
extended to those people who 
wish only to eat with as little 
inconvenience as possible. The 
smoke of those sitting outside 
but near this special area cannot 
read the signs, and so does not 
hesitate to enter and make con­
ditions uncomfortable for those 
inside. Some may be allergic,
some may just not like the smell. 
Regardless, the wishes of those 
that established the No Smoking 
area are not being realized.
To be effective, at least one 
full half of the cafeteria should 
be set aside for non-smokers. I 
do not think that this is un­
reasonable. After all, I enjoy my 
privilege to drive, but do not run 
down pedestrians because they 
are in my way or I refuse to see 
them.
Paul B. Auerbach
—WOMEN HATERS— 
Editor:
I must congratulate the CMU 
TARTAN on its absolute lack of 
fairness when reporting the re­
actions of the “Hill People” in 
the announcement that Donner 
would be coed. I consider the 
article written by Mr. McCul­
lough to b.e unrepresentative of 
the attitudes held by most 
people living on the Hill.
I challenge the TARTAN to 
prove that the majority of people 
on the Hill are indeed believers in 
“Doghouses,” and further to ex­
plain why the opinion of other 
students was not reported. I have 
talked with about 25 of the 37 
people currently living in my 
dorm, and have failed to find one 
example of the reaction show­
cased in the TARTAN. I feel that 
the TARTAN should apologize 
to those on the Hill who hold 
opinions other than the ones of 
Mr. Piccoli. v
I feel that this example of ir­
responsible sensationalism should 
be advertised as the lowest level 
of journalism ever exhibited by 
the TARTAN, and that the paper 
should refran from ever again 
publishing such a partial view­
point as a typification of any 
group.
I, for one, feel that some of 
the people (real animals) on the 
Hill should live in doghouses 
(real ones).
I NEVER THOUGHT THAT 
I’D HAVE TO DO THIS:
James Johnston, 
Michael Hirsh
Editor:
When I first heard about the 
new decision to put “females on 
the Hill” I thought it would be a 
nice change from More wood Gar­
dens. Then, I read Tim Mc­
Cullough’s article. I was really 
discouraged about the attitudes 
conveyed concerning the coed 
dorms. For example, Steve 
Piccoli’s intelligent comment 
concerning the “quota of ¡Pitts­
burgh’s] dog pounds” is really 
blatant prejudging of girls by 
their looks. Is he so handsome?
Furthermore, Peter Harvison 
should be informed that “some 
old bitch at central desk” does 
not regulate the residents of the 
dorms, only late-night strangers; 
judging from the robberies and 
beatings on the Hill lately, a desk 
is probably needed, cold dorm or 
hot.
Last but not least, when did 
some idiot get the idea that gjrls 
want air-conditioning or large 
rooms, etc.? I’ve seen the dorms 
and no “fixing up” seems neces­
sary to me.
The only changes I would 
require before moving into the 
new coed dorms would be that 
of the attitudes of the guys.
Linda Cox 
—WHO SAID IT?— 
Editor:
Regarding the article of March 
11 by Tim McCullough entitled 
“Females in the Hill?” we believe 
an explanation is in order.
As given in the context ‘of the 
article, none of the quotations 
reflect the actual opinions of the 
interviewed persons. The article 
consists largely of fabrications on 
the part of the author. In the 
future, should McCullough learn 
the value of journalistic credi­
bility, perhaps he will quit pro­
ducing sensationalism and start 
to write seriously.
Steven Piccoli 
Peter J. Harvison
—GREEK SINGS— 
Editor:
I am writing in response to 
your Greek Sing review in the 
March 11 TARTAN by Claire 
Lee. I was greatly disturbed by 
the description of Pi Kappa 
Alpha as amateurish. It should 
have been noted that not only 
did PIKA take second place in 
the competition, but their a 
capella barbershop quartet was 
the hit of the show.
Claire Lee regards Beta Theta 
Pi’s disorganized and unintel­
ligible Wizard of Oz as a high 
point of the evening. If he can 
yell, “What a show! What a 
show!” he must either have a 
very large heart or a very small 
mind.
From the ranting and raving 
in the article, one would think 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon was the 
best performance, when in fact, 
theirs was good enough only for 
third place.
Also, any technical fault of 
Kappa Sigma was only in the 
mind of Claire Lee, and surely 
not that of the judges, who saw
fit to award the first place tro­
phy to the brbthers (and pledges) 
of Kappa Sigma. Their “imper­
fect, but good attempt” turned 
out to be the best attempt of the 
evening as far as audience and 
judge both were concerned.
Finally, this Claire Lee has no 
idea, perception or intelligence 
when it comes to the Greek 
system. He believes “ ... during 
the rest of the time, each society 
seems mostly to keep to itself, 
and to its own businesses, activ­
ities and entertainments.” I ask 
Mr. Lee now, who participates 
the most in IM football, basket­
ball, softball and other IM sports; 
who helps out in charity drives; 
wno has a Watermellon Bash; 
who participates in the sleeping 
bag campaign; who provides a 
majority of the activities of 
Spring Carnival; and who is ac­
tive in varsity sports and many, 
many other activities? Frater­
nities and sororities—Hie Greek 
System—that’s who.
You must think we hate each 
and every other fraternity. We 
don’t. What do you think bi­
mixers are and then allowing all 
Greeks in any mixer two hours 
after it begins. Competition, not 
hate, in IM sports and Sweep­
stakes.
In conclusion, the freshman 
who wrote that review was either 
partial, ignorant, blindfolded or 
any combination thereof. Al­
though he may call acts amateur­
ish, is not the entire show an. 
amateur production? If it was to 
be a professional show, would we 
not have put professional people 
on the stage? And finally, if any
one took the lime to look at 
their ticket, they would have 
noticed the printing in the mid­
dle of the ticket-“50 cents do­
nation to charity,” the price of 
the ticket.
T.H.E. Greek
EDITOR'S NOTE
T.H.E. Greek might be an ex­
pert on the Greek System at 
CMU but obviously lacks the 
expertise on journalism. It is en­
tirely proper for a reviewer to 
make his own judgements on a 
performance, even if they are 
contrary to the decisions of the 
judges.
— THANK-YOU WITH A
CHERRY ON TOP —
Editor:
The THISTLE ’75 staff would 
like to thank the brothers of 
Delta Upsilon for their generous 
support with*a'H page advertise­
ment in the forthcoming year­
book.
We point out that the place­
ment of this advertisement sig­
nifies the fraternity’s belief in 
the tradition of a CMU yearbook 
and their willingness to help 
towards ensuring the production 
of our publication.
The action also reaffirms our 
belief that people at this Univer­
sity DO care about THISTLE’s 
existence. We’re here to create a 
lasting Carnegie memory; we 
care, too.
Kathy Sabec 
Linda Ackerman
THISTLE Editors
STOP LOOKING
for a good part-time job!!
•Good Pay «New Opportunities 
•Career Training •Regular Promotions 
•Men and Women Eligible
EARN $45 FOR ONE WEEKEND PER MONTH, AND TRAIN FOR 
A REWARDING CAREER IN THE TECHNICAL 
SKILL OF YOUR CHOICE.
GETTING INVOLVED BECAUSE
AMERICA NEEDS US
CMU
FOR MORE INFORMATION (No Obligation) CLIP AND MAIL TO: 
ARMY RESERVE OPPORTUNITIES, 4001 WEST DEVON AVE. 
RM. 106. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS60646
NAME.AGE.
ADDRESS-
CITY.
ZIP_
.STATE.
PHONE.I
" rr PAYS TO GO TO MEETINGS”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-March 18. 1975
announcements
On Wednesday, March 19 Dr. Niel Wald
and Dr. John Herron, Department of Rad­
iation Health, University of Pittsburgh, will 
speak on "Laser Location and Computer 
Analysis of Human Chromosomes” in the 
Scaife Hall Auditorium at 8:00 pm. For 
information call Prof. K. Preston (x406) or 
Prof. J.O. Artman (389) EE Dept. CMU.
The Pleasures of Merely Circulating Read­
ing Series presents student and faculty 
writers reading from their own work every 
Tuesday, 4:30-5:30 pm in room 46 Skibo. 
The featured writers March 18 (that's to­
day, folks!) are Wendy Shaffer, Mark Evan 
Chimsky, ancTDavid Noble. Sponsored by 
the Creative Writing Program and the 
Oakland Review.
Artists! Craftspeople! Display and/or sell
your work at the CMU Arts and Crafts 
Festival during Spring Carnival. For more 
information call 683-8132 or leave a note 
at the Skibo Desk.
The Fourth Annual March for Hunger,
sponsored by Pittsburgh-Appalachia Emer­
gency Fund and Service (PAEFSI), will be 
held on Saturday, March 22, at 9:45 am. 
Each marcher is sponsored by one or more 
persons at 10 cents or more per mile. Start­
ing points for the march are: South Hills 
Village, Murphy's Mart on McKnight Road 
(North Hills) and Miracle Mile Shopping 
Center (Downtown district and east), and 
the termination point for all routes will be 
Point State Park, Downtown. Any person 
or groups interested in sponsoring, march­
ing or receiving additional information 
should contact Jim Sieger at 682-4988 or 
by mailing a card to Box 704, campus mail.
Seen any good flicks lately? Now's your
chance to help pick next year's Saturday 
night films. There is a Student Dorm 
Council suggestion box at the Skibo Infor­
mation Desk and at Morewood.
HfcSS FRESHMEN should report to the
department chosen for sophomore year 
sometime between April 1 and 4 to learn 
who their 1975-76 advisor will be and what 
plan the department will follow for Regis­
tration on April 8 and 9.
Departmental choices are confirmed by 
the list posted on the bulletin board out­
side of room 107, MMCC. If there are any 
problems, please see Dean Lloyd at once.
Students Helping Students 
PEER HELP
BH 150A or 621-9900
Torah Study—CMU Hillel Student Council
is pleased to announced that Rabbi 
Ephraim Rosenbloom will be able, kine- 
ahora, to continue his lesson on the con­
duct of criminal court (gemara makkes) 
today in room 11 Skibo at 7 pm.
Karl Weick, Graduate School of Psychol­
ogy and Business Administration at Cornell 
University will speak on "Where is the 
Organization?” The lecture will be given on 
Wednesday, March 19 at 3:30 pm in GSIA 
319.
Allan Paivio, Department of Psychology at
the University of Western Ontario will 
speak on "Imagery and Semantic 
Memory.” The lecture will be given on 
Thursday, March 20 at 3:30 pm in Baker 
Hall 340A.
A Nutrition Seminar on Protein and Fiber,
sponsored by the Semple Street Food Co­
op, will be held on Tuesday, March 18 at 
8:00 pm at the Pitt Annex, Corner of 
Sennott and Bouquet Streets. Admission is 
free and the public is invited.
Someone looking over your shoulder? It
might be Floyd M. Griffin of the FBI. Mr. 
Griffin will present a lecture/demon­
stration on the inside story of the FBI 
Wednesday, March 19 at 7:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room. Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning.
An illustrated talk on “The Caves of the
Hillside Area, near Blairsville” will be pre­
sented by Barry Walker at 7:30 pm, Wed­
nesday, March 19 in the Pittsburgh 
National Bank meeting room, Forbes 
Avenue, Squirrel Hill.
On Sunday, April 13, the Admissions
Office will be hosting an Open House for 
all students who have been admitted to 
CMU from the Tri-State area. The Open 
House will take place from 1:00 to 4:00 
pm in the Faculty Lounge and Dining 
Room. Any CMU students interested in (a) 
attending the Open House and talking with 
students or (b) giving informal campus 
tours are encouraged to do so. We need at 
least 10 people from each college. Please 
stop by Admissions Office to sign up and 
learn more about the program.
Free Pregnancy testing Mon-Sat 9-4. For
information call 362-2920.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU’s Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
e Desk Lamps • Key Service • Artist Brushes 
• Hot Plates e Poster Paints • School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND 
Phone :621-0923
Many of you think Student Senate is
powerless. Some of you think Senate is a 
waste of time. Often it seems even the 
Administration has lost faith in Senate.
If you believe that the students of CMU 
should have a voice in University matters, 
get involved! In the upcoming elections, 42 
seats are open. Go to the Information Desk 
in Skibo, pick up a petition and return it 
by March 21 with 25 signatures. Elections 
are April 9 and 10. With a little campaign­
ing you can be elected.
Prove to the Administration and other 
non-believers that students do care. GOOD 
LUCK!!!
WRCT-FM 88.3—President Cyert inter­
viewed by Student Senate Chairperson, 
TARTAN Editor-in-Chief and WRCT News 
Director. Students invited to speak on-air 
with Cyert by telephone. Call 621-WRCT. 
Thursday, 7 pm.
Entropy will close for spring break on
Friday, March 21 at 5 pm. It will reopen 
Sunday, March 30 at 3 pm. The Sunday 
New York Times will not be available 
March 23 or March 30.
Join an informal discussion sponsored by
the Women's Collective on female offend­
ers and the Pennsylvania prison system. Ms. 
Charlotte Ginsburg, Pittsburgh director of 
the Pennsylvania Program for Women 
Offenders, will lead the discussion Wednes­
day, March 19 at 6:00 pm in room 14 of 
Skibo. Everyone is welcome.
Classified
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique over­
night boys summer camp in Penna. Able to 
instruct any one of the following: water 
safety, boating, water skiing, athletics, golf, 
physics, chemistry, rocketry, tennis, 
riflery, ham radio, photography, arts & 
crafts or archery. Write Camp Director 138 
Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 
19444.
Summer Sublet with option to lease,
available June 1,1975, 2 bedroom, fully- 
equipped kitchen, wall to wall carpeting, 
air conditioned, parking. For information 
call 661-1308.
ENLARGER 5x7 AUTO OMEGA E3.
Type D lamphouse 190 mm, 90 mm, 
accessories. Gregg 682-6901.
TAPE RECORDER, ROBERTS 1630,
REEL TO REEL $125.00 621-9727 Mark 
Selling HP-65. Fully programmable calcu­
lator. Perfect condition—3 months old. 
$675; if interested, write to: Box 256, 
CMU Post Office, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Established Pittsburgh 
Film Company seeks 
writers to add comedy 
material and improve a 
completed movie 
script. Can you write 
Woody Allen-Mel 
Brooks type comedy?
Call Mr. Arnold at 
373-0415.
On Tuesday Nite, April 1st, making ¡fc *
campus debut, "Tootsie Films" will 
present:
**"Whatever Happened To Baby Jane” 
—plus—
(by ever-popular.demand)
*A feature short starring "Spanky & Our 
Gang"
Come join us for something new .. . 
"Tuesday Nite is Tootsie Nite" at CMU. 
5:00, 7:30 and 10:00 in Doherty Hall 
2210.
Campus Representative—great chance for a
fraternity or sorority to have a continuous 
income with no investment. Call 281-4020.
%
Come this time. Second Summer Program
in Mexico. Self-paced and individual 
courses. Baker Hall 228C.
For sale: Garrard SL 75B turntable with
Pickering PATE/4 cartridge. Call Pete 
682-0651 eve. after 7.
Furnished Squirrel Hill house for rent,
June 1 to December 31, 1975. Couple pre­
ferred, no children, no pets. $300/month, 
plus utilities, security deposit. Rent 
negotiable for other circumstances. 
521-7897.
summer
ineurope
H5 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U S GOVT APPR0VE0 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
e CALL TOLL FREE 1-
lESS THAN
1/2
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
800 325 4867 e
Want to pay your way through school? Sell
1 policy per week and you'll earn approx­
imately $4000 per year. Reply to 
TARTAN, giving name, phone no. and 
address.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare I 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Do you need some extra money? Spring j
Carnival Committee needs people to sell j 
tickets during the three days of Spring Car­
nival. Pay will be $2.00 per hour. For more | 
information contact Rich Weiss through 
the Spring Carnival box at the Skibo desk j 
or at 441-5211.
STEREO TAPES 8-track & cassettes• over 1000 rock& popular titles• only $1.99 each• free brochure
write: AUDIO LOOP CO. DEPT.508 P.O. BOX 43355 CLEVELAND. OHIO 44143

---------------------------------------------------

Black Week : Splendid Array of 
Culture.Sports.and Enter.
THE ÎARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 5
by Dolores M. Foster
March 2 through the 8 was Black Week. 
It began with a Gospel Concert, an 
•appropriate beginning since Blacks have 
deep roots in the church. The next day 
included an afternoon workshop and an 
evening lecture featuring Nikki Giovanni.
The workshop was really an opportun­
ity for the audience to become acquainted 
with Ms. Giovanni. She answered various 
questions ranging from what to do if you 
are a beginning poet to her latest book The 
Men and the Women. The lecture was a 
challenge to everyone, especially students, 
to foster and implement change on cam­
pus, in the community and nationwide.
The middle of the Week introduced the 
First Annual Spirit Invitational Basketball 
Tournament. Black intramural teams play­
ed against each other for a prize. The play­
offs were between Black Heat versus Madd
Honor Roll 
for Graduation
by John Spaulding
CMU might have a graduation honor roll 
this spring, according to Edward Schatz, 
Vice-President for Academic Affairs. He 
has started two separate honors lists acting 
on a recommendation from the Education­
al Affairs Council of the Faculty Senate to 
recognize academic achievement.
The University honors list will appear 
on the commencement program. The list 
will consist the names of seniors recognized 
for meritorious academic achievement and 
will honor from five to ten per cent of the 
graduating class.
The complimentary addition to the 
graduation list will be the reappearance of 
the Dean’s list. The qualifications for it will 
be determined by the individual college 
(H&SS, MIS, etc.) that the student belongs 
to, on a semester by semester basis. In 
general, entry to both of these lists will 
depend largely on the student’s grade point 
average.
Niki Giovanni was the kick-off 
speaker for Black Week.
photo by Fred Shamlian 
and Pride versus NiPhiNi, which ended 
with Pride as the victor.
On Friday, the movie with no violence 
and sex was shown, Sounder. The movie 
was superb and its message reached adults 
as well as children, as it was originally a 
children’s book.
The same evening JBC Band and Show 
was playing in the Ballroom. The group 
had a professional sound that gave folks a 
chance to boogey down and party.
The finale to Black Week was the Talent 
Show. The performances were satisfactory 
to exceptional and almost every depart­
ment was represented, even the Metallurgy 
Department. The show was a glimpse of 
some of the fine talent residing right on 
this campus. Some of the more outstanding 
performances were given by an integrated 
group called Maiden Voyage, which played 
some controlled jazz; Potential Difference, 
another jazz group that could have been 
the Talent Show all by itself. The show was 
successful financially and talent ability.
Black Week ’75 showcased Black 
aptitude in music, mime, dance, dramatic 
readings and sports. “First Moments of a 
New Day” hopefully opened a few eyes 
and encouraged this year’s non-participants 
to help us celebrate our ebony color in 
Black Week ’76.
For Free Brochure • Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
Senate Reviews Check 
Cashing Fee
I naoe 1continued from page 1
ations in an attempt to bring them down to 
an acceptable level. When a quorum count 
was called enough senators had left to 
make passing a n issue impossible.news briefs
No Summer Work Study
There will be no Summer Work Study 
program after April 27, 1975. The funds 
under the Federal College Work-Study Pro­
gram have been reduced from $150,983 
last academic year to $107,326, represent­
ing a reduction of 28.9%. Another factor in 
the cutting of the program is the increase 
of the minimum .wage.
The state of funds for the next aca­
demic year will not be known until late 
March.
Parking Office Moves
Effective March 1, 1975, all administrative 
activity involving the University’s parking 
operations will be performed by Sylvia 
Austin. She is now located in the Cashier’s 
Office on the Concourse of Warner Hall. 
Her telephone extension for parking 
related matters will be x422.
Dean of Student Affairs, Earle Swank, 
infomed Senate that Vice-President for 
Business Affairs, Richard Van Horn is in­
stituting a twenty-cent check cashftig fee 
which will become effective on July first. 
The fee is purportedly necessary to main­
tain the current check cashing services and 
the money is to be used to pay for one full 
time employee that is necessary for such a 
service.
Senator Edward Levine made the 
motion that “Student Senate recommends 
that all checks, including University checks 
be able to be cashed up to $100. We 
strongly recommend that the employee 
will exclusively cash checks from 9 am to 4 
pm.” The motion passed 10-6-2.
, Dave Groupe presented a proposed Stu­
dent Government constitution and made a 
motion that Senate place it on the ballot of 
the April 10 election as a referendum. The 
constitution would replace the 40 member 
Senate with a smaller executive committee 
and a separate finance committee. The pro­
posed constitution is the work of a group 
of five students, four of whom are present 
Student Senators. Senate Chairperson 
Susan Olshansky stated that a smaller body 
would function in a more organized 
manner.
Goodnews
r from
tmersons.
Enjoy our delicious FVime Rib or Sirloin Filet 
dinner. Pnme Rib regularly $5.95, now $4.95. 
Sirloin Filet regularly $4.95, now $3.95.
(Sunday thru Thursday.)
Now, here’s some even better news.
Well even include a hot Idaho baked potato 
with sour cream and chives.
Sunound this feast with salad, all you want 
from our endless salad bar.
And pile on unlimited hot French, rye and 
pumpernickel bread, too.
So have a luscious Sirloin 
Filet with baked potato for only -----«
Or juicy FVime Rib of Beef au Jus and baked 
potato for only $4.95.
Thru March 31st.
Isn’t that good news?EMERSONS"
Cocktails, wine and beer available.
North Hills—4611 McKmght Road-931-6707 
Monroeville—3500 William Penn Highway — 824-1440

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-March 18,1975Moldy Slices :" Nowhere Man Sitting in Nowhere Land"
by Rick Costa
Just the other day I was walking 
through Doherty Hall, that contorted 
mausoleum of alternating slabs of gray and 
daVk brown, when I noticed a procession 
winding its way through the bleak refuse- 
strewn halls. First I saw the solemn-faced 
men and the handkerchief-handed women 
and then I saw the open coffin upheld and 
propelled by six more solemn-faced men. I 
hitched myself onto the posterior of the 
column and fell in step.
They pushed through the doors of a 
nearby lecture hall as i£it were a sepulcher 
and put the coffin on the huge black desk 
in front of the blackboard, while placing 
the guest register and flower baskets about 
at strategic points. The professor, usually 
oblivious to his audience, did not let these 
proceedings escape his attention.
“What the hell is that dead body doing 
here?”
Twenty diligent, cramped hands immed­
iately wrote down, “What the hell is that 
body doing here,” as they did everything 
else the professor said. They still consider­
ed learning a meaningful pursuit, as if lured 
to this conclusion by a golden haze glowing 
in the almost discernible distance, and sat 
as rigid as their busy pens, with their fresh­
ly polished shoes and their bright new 
multicolored textbooks arranged in precise 
stacks like cannon balls. They eagerly 
restricted their conscious attention, con­
tracted the Universe onto those eight by 
ten pages, pages turned delicately either 
out of respect or fear of creasing, for the 
entire semester and then moved on to a 
new textbook, hopefully with a prettier 
cover. Later these same twenty would ask 
among themselves, “Do you think there 
will be any material about the dead body 
on the final?” Those who decided that 
'here would be were rewarded because 
there was.
The rest of the sizeable class was asleep, 
some with newspapers spread over their 
faces. They were sprawled about taking up 
three seats each, looking like manikins God 
had absent-mindedly tossed there. Paradox­
ically, their textbooks resembled recently 
exhumed manuscripts although they had 
never been opened, a fact in which they 
took such pride. They perched precariously 
in their seats, twirling their unsharpened 
pencils in thier ears, as defiant of gravity as 
of the entire grading system, an act as 
courageous as hunting white whales off the 
Cuban coast or boxing with midgets. Ac­
tually, their feigned apathy was a ludicrous 
mockery of philosophical ennui, like dress­
ing up as Albert Camus for Halloween. By 
this time I had taken a seat in the rear of 
the cavernous room.
“Mr. K., who graduated from Carnegie 
Tech in 1925, requested that ht be laid out 
in this room. His fondest memories were of 
freshman chemistry.**
™ »’ *’ uM-trwtidim•cAumi rati itnm-une
“Cyert agreed to this?”
“He couldn’t very well refuse since K. 
made sizeable financial contributions to 
the University over the years.”
The professor, convinced, returned to 
lecturing, while the bored guests began to 
flutter in meaningless arcs around the 
coffin. Then they took seats in the front 
and the minister began to speak. Soon 
dronings of solubility product constants 
were intertwined with intonings of the 
Lord giving and taking away.
“Wait a minute. You can’t talk when 
I’m trying to lecture.”
“You’re right. I’m sure that K. would 
have thought your lecture a more fitting 
eulogy, anyhow.”
The minister and the few mourners paid 
their last hurried respects and left. The 
class proceeded as normal. The corpse fit 
right in, although he did seem to be paying 
closer attention to the lecture than most of 
the assembled students, who counted how 
many boards the professor filled up instead 
of noting their negligible content in a state 
of somnolence medically indistinguishable 
from sleep or death. iThey sat lifeless, 
shadows in the worn green seats, which 
looked identical to symmetrical monot­
onous rows of tombstones.
Soon the bell rang and the professor 
scampered out, closely followed by the dil­
igent twenty who wanted to be ten min­
utes early for their next class. The others 
slowly came to consciousness with exag­
gerated yawns and then filed out in a twist­
ed line like a homeless umbilical cord, 
thinking that the corpse was only another 
student. Only the last two to leave realized 
that he was not a student, because he 
didn’t have a pocket calculator. They walk­
ed up the side of the mahogany coffin and 
began absent-mindedly fingering the satin
lining.
“What do you think the body was for?” 
“I don’t know. Must have been for some 
kind of demonstration.” “I might start 
paying attention.” “Here, hand me one of 
those glass tubes.” “There isn’t any dia­
grams on the board, is there” “Maybe this 
goes in here.” He inserted the tube into 
K.’s nostril, but must have struck some sort 
of impediment. He pushed harder, but to 
no avail. “I can’t get the damn thing in. 
There’s some kind of wax in there. ” 
“You’d think they could get us a better
XEROX COPY PRICÉS:
I - 5-6</copy 
6- 10-3C/copy
II -15-2</copy 
16 - Up -1 y*</copy
100 copies cost $1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for a quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
* A 25% discount is available 
on copies in 1-5 range if you 
leave work for 48 hours.
body than this. Just look at this old 
decrepit thing. This place really sucks.” 
“Like I told you before. When you entered 
this place you had to abandon all hope.” 
They strolled out. I went to the front of 
the auditorium and turned around for one 
last look. The room seemed less empty 
than before. I still seemed to be able to see 
the students as if they had been indiffer­
ently etched on a discarded negative. I 
turned off the lights and walked out, with­
out leaving a trace.
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES:
100 Copies - $3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90C
1000 Copies-$11.60 
Each additional 100 - 80<
2000 Copies-$19.60
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies - 70<
BOOK BINDING PRICES:
Paper Cover - 85C 
Composition Cover - $ 1.50 
Hard Cover-$4.00
EXPERT TYPING
All done on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
COPY CAT®
Quick Copy Center
HOTEL WEBSTER HAU
FOUR GATEWAY CENTER 
263-2577
MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL I.D. 
CARO TO RECEIVE STUDENT 
AND FACULTY DISCOUNT.
Is stealing a
hmifislaiNMi^a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It’s stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine off up to $19,000
¦ Up to seven years in Jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost of tha fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent c I’iminsl record
One more thing: modem electronic computer systems are being used to trackdown 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark. Pag
^MofRennsyMa
summer¡neurope
«5 DAY ADVANCE PAYMENT REQUIRED
M • «sut aaaaMÉi
ìm MB AM TMMMM
CHARTERS LESS THAN2MECONOMY FARE
COLOR COPIES
Now available at Copy Cat®
Same day service at new location in FOUR GATEWAY CENTER, or 48 hour service at 
Copy Cat- in WEBSTER HALL. Special For Students & Faculty!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Wlarch 18,19^5— Page 7A Critical AnalysisROTC: Parti
by Lester Nathan
“Efficiency in killing, and strict 
obedience,” are cited as primary goals of 
ROTC training by opponents of the pro­
gram. Its proponents say it is “dedicated to 
the education and betterment of the indi­
vidual through learning and seeks to instill 
initiative and responsibility” into those in 
the program. Both are referring to ROTC 
(Reserve Officers’ Training Corps). Since 
the killings at Kent State and aftermath in 
1970, the ROTC program at CMU has not 
been in the news. To inform our readers, 
the TARTAN presents a two-segment story 
about ROTC-a view from the Military and 
a view from outside.
BACKGROUND
The CMU ROTC program was establish­
ed in 1919. It was done through contrac­
tual agreement between the Department of 
the Army and the University. Either party 
can void the contract by giving a one-year
advance notice. Since the program began, 
more than 2000 students have received 
commissions as officers in the Armed 
Forces through successful completion.
The CMU program belongs to the First 
ROTC Region, a collection of 291 colleges 
and universities on the eastern seaboard. Of 
that total, only nine schools do not give 
academic credit for military science 
courses. CMU is one of them
In 1970 there were several major 
changes in the Military Science (MS) De­
partment. On April 28, Faculty Senate 
adopted a resolution, effective in the fall, 
that: 1) disallowed academic credit for MS 
courses, 2) took ROTC off transcripts, 3) 
removed the MS department from Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and assigned it to 
the Division of Student Affairs, 4) elim­
inated academic titles from all ROTC in­
structors except the department head, who 
was renamed “Professor in Residence, 
Military Science” and 5) transferred
ROTC’s administrative offices from Baker 
Hall to the second floor of the gymnasium. 
ROTC was taken out of the mainstream of 
the academic community.
The entire curriculum has undergone 
changes also. Formerly the program stress­
ed training. Students met twice each week 
in the classroom and once per week for a 
leadership laboratory. Some of the topics 
were: history, mission and organization of 
ROTC; customs and courtesies of the 
Army; Army weapons; tactical commun­
ications; military teaching principles and 
Army administration. The lab consisted of 
march and drill and “appropriate military 
subjects.”
The present program emphasizes edu­
cation. The trend is toward “the more 
theoretical, abstract and academic aspects 
of military science.” Problem solving and 
leadership experience are being empha­
sized. Names have been changed, but the 
material in the courses is still “relevant to 
the potential officer’s needs ...” During 
his first two years, the ROTC student lears: 
evolution of the art of warfare, relationship 
of strategy and tactics to geography, econ­
omics, sociology and technology through­
out the ages, systemic portrayal of leader­
ship, assessment of the military pro­
fession’s position in American society, 
development of American military insti­
tutions, principles of systematic manage­
ment applicable to the military and more.
The Advanced Course, taken by juniors 
and seniors, prepares the students for work 
in the Corps of Engineers or Signal Corps.
A Visit From the General
On February 13, the commander of 
Region One, General James Cochran, 
visited CMU and held a meeting with a 
group of CMU cadets. General Cochran en­
joys visiting the troops; he openly admitted 
this, telling the cadets they were “the 
future of the Army” and frankly stating, 
“I don’t want to blow smoke at you.”
General Cochran: “ROTC is
almost recreation.”
Photo by Mark Segal
program in his region; there was concern 
for improving the program and making it 
more attractive to freshmen and sopho­
mores.
The remarks from the ensuing discus­
sion were interesting. The cadets told the 
General that not enough students were 
attracted to the program because of ignor­
ance and misconceptions about ROTC and 
the wearing of a uniform (cadets only have 
to wear a uniform one hour per week).
We learned that during the summer, 
cadets call incoming freshmen to try to 
interest them in joining. According to one 
cadet, “a small minority are out and out 
against it.” Others try to get out all the 
negative aspects in their conversation. The 
cadets believe that many of these students 
are afraid of becoming outcasts if they join 
ROTC.
Working against those who do join is the 
amount of time ROTC consumes every 
week. Those who have dropped out of the 
program said it was a waste of time. One of 
the ROTC instructors said, “We try not to 
interfere unduly with their academic work­
load.”
Discussion shifted to academic credit 
for ROTC. The General was in favor of 
credit. However, one cadet said, “No credit 
is an asset,” and explained that with credit, 
more outside assignments would probably 
be given and thus, MS students would be 
spending more of their time on ROTC 
work.
The General, in a comparison between 
ROTC and college work, said “ROTC is 
almost recreation.” He felt ROTC could 
provide management and leadership edu­
cation and still be interesting, challenging 
and fun.
ROTC Enrollment
Since the fall of 1968, ROTC enroll­
ment has taken a beating. Total enrollment 
at that time was 312. In one year, the 
number dropped to 173. The total steadily
efo&S
7:00 P.M. THURSDAY 
88.FM
Phone Lines: 
621-WRCT 
Morewood 
101 or 102
The General was visiting the smallest
----------------CUP AND SAVE---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE LAST 3 DAY COFFEEHOUSE OF 74-75
The Return Of
ROBIN AND LINDA WILLIAMS
THURSDAY, APRIL 3
Special Noontime Performance - Wherrett Room
FRIDAY, APRIL 4 
SATURDAY, APRIL 5»
9 P.M. Wherrett Room
FREE.........REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED
Sponsored by A.B. Coffeehouse
continued on page 8
Information On Aliyah 
A CONFERENCE ABOUT LIFE 
IN ISRAEL FOR THE YOUNG 
AND THE YOUNG AT HEART
Sunday, March 23,1975
from 2-5 p.m.
Jewish Comm unity Center 
315 S. Beliefield Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Information: Call Roni Ofer, 683-7277.

---------------------------------------------------

W'*m
administration have still not reported.
Colonel Gardner is getting some support 
from Dean Toor of CIT. A committee of 
department heads has been set up by Dean 
Toor to evaluate ROTC. The committee is 
talking to the cadets as well as other people 
not associated with ROTC. General 
Cochran paid Dean Toor a visit the day he 
was here.
When asked about what ROTC has done 
for Camegie-Mellon University, Colonel 
Gardner mentioned three items:
1) It has allowed more that 2000 
officers to receive commissions * in the 
Armed Forces.
2) It has given the Armed Forces 6 
generals.
3) It has provided a professional career 
opportunity in the military service in con­
sonance with the University’s overall goals.
Misconceptions
It is a common belief that all ROTC 
cadets receive free tuition and a monthly 
allowance. The freshman and sophomore 
cadets get nothing unless they are on 
scholarship. All scholarships must be won 
on a national basis. A total of 6,500 
scholarships are available nationally.
*¦¦HS«§nmmmm
Colonel Gardner-modernizing the program, and 
trying to make it more appealing.
advanced ROTC ‘Summer Camp. They are 
paid $460 plus travel expenses. Finally, all 
students are furnished necessary textbooks, 
uniforms and supplies through ROTC. 
They return the uniform and supplies upon 
withdrawal or completion of the course.
Photo by Mark Segal
In the next installment we will speak to 
administration members and a few non- 
ROTC students, to obtain their feelings 
about the program. Any news about the 
evaluation committee will also be reported.
Scholarships cover tuition, fees, books and 
laboratory expenses. All juniors and seniors 
receive a “subsistence allowance” of $100 
per month for up to 10 months per year. 
Upon completion of the 4 year program, 
the newly commissioned officer must serve 
the Army for 6 years: three months to two 
years active duty and the remainder in a 
reserve unit. Scholarship winners must 
spend four years in active service and the 
remainder in the reserves. All ROTC cadets 
must spend six weeks in the summer be­
tween their junior and senior years at an
: Z ,’1 -í :¡ : ¦í'- fr iÍ.r f ::ct
Page 8—THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975
ROTC Program, "...a
¦ social sciences/education
political science-cultural pluralism- 
counseling—public policy—economics- 
anthropology- psychology-education
¦ practica
art history-self defense-directing- 
computer-generated music—studio art- 
baroque music-modern dance—acting
¦ special programs and institutes
program in environmental earth sci­
ences and city and regional planning- 
marine geology—the samuel beckett 
workshop-hopkins marine station
write or call for summer visitor 
information
¦ and
you can live on the campus and enjoy 
the cultural and recreational benefits 
of the san francisco bay area
Stanford summer visitor program 
Stanford, california 94305 
(415) 497-2872
c6nt»nued from page 7
decreased, sinking to 27 in the spring of 
1974. A small increase has brought the 
present enrollment to 37. The ROTC 
instructors feel the “bottoming out” has 
been reached.
This is still not good enough. The Army 
estimates that for economic viability, a 
ROTC program must produce at least 15 
commissioned officers per year. To get 
this, the program must start with 60 to 65 
freshmen. The last time CMU graduated 15 
CO’s was 1973; over 60 freshmen was last 
seen in 1969. ROTC at CMU faces the 
possibility of being phased out by the 
Army.
During the previous four academic 
years, national ROTC enrollments decreas­
ed by 83 per cent, yet the ROTC program 
is the source of commission for approx­
imately 75 per cent of all new Army 
officers coming on active duty.
Colonel Lee Gardner
Colonel Gardner has been at CMU since 
August 1973. He views ROTC as an un­
equalled opportunity rather than an obli­
gation or commitment. He has modernized 
the curriculum and tried to make the whole 
program more appealing. He is still not 
satisfied.
“I just want someone to look at it 
(ROTC). It’s a good thing. If it isn’t, tell 
me what I’ve got to do to make it good.”
He feels that the more education an 
officer has, the broader it is, the more 
representative of our nation the officer is, 
the better off the country is. He believes 
the Army needs ROTC because of the edu­
cated, enlightened leadership it provides.
Since the MS department is part of Stu­
dent Activities, Colonel Gardner reports to 
Dean Swank as well as the Army. A request 
for an evaluation of course offerings was 
sent by the colonel to Dean Swank last 
summer. It was also asked for an evaluation 
by the administration of whether to give 
academic credit for ROTC courses, a rever­
sal of the 1970 policy. Members of the
UK?
get a fun job
working 
with me atffafflywood
"The coaster capital of the world”
West Mifflin Pa.. 15122
¦ history/humanities/languages
british literature—poetry-marxism— 
creative writing—logic-portuguese— 
german—chinese-japanese-spanish- 
religious studies—french-italian
¦ sciences/mathematics/technology
aeronautics & astronautics—physics— 
geology—biology—computer science- 
industrial engineering-statistics- 
electrical engineering-chemistry
Interviewing 
Park Office 
Begins March 22 
Mon. thru Fri. 
3:30 to 6 PM 
Saturdays 
9 AM to 2 PM
No Applications 
by mail or 
phone
"KennyKangaroo"

---------------------------------------------------

| Women: 
Close up 75
By Debbie Siegel
My mother loved to reminisce back to the time when 
I was a little girl, dressed in blue satin lace. A woman 
stopped my mother one day, as she was strolling her 
little girl in a frilly carriage. This woman said, “Oh, what 
a cute little boy you have!” From that day on, my 
mother reassured me that she would dress me in pink 
lace, just to be sure nobody mistook me for a boy.
If one compares a male infant to a female infant, it is 
often difficult to distinguish the gender. A dorsal view 
on a city street today may show a person with long hair, 
jeans and boots. Only by taking a frontal approach can 
you tell whether the individual is a girl or boy, woman 
or man. Men and women can wear the same clothes, can 
match intellects and ciin engage, in mutual entertain­
ment. But, even with a majority population, women 
have often been denied fair education and job oppor­
tunities.
The problem lies in a socialization process of women 
and men. A re-education of -the masses must occur; an 
awareness of no matter how feminine or masculine a 
person is should be all right. Individuals must not be 
molded into delicate creatures or husky masculine types.
Women’s Gose-up ’75 provided an opportunity for 
women to gain information and insight into women's 
issues and problems that affect women. Women’s Week 
must extend beyond CMU and pertain to parents and 
their children. Only then will women and men exchange 
emotions, ideas and a new socialization process may 
begin.
“The whole world is a man 
center. ” 
Angry lady quoted 
from NEW YORK TIMES
By Suzanne Breisch 
Dr. Marion Goldstein, a practicing psychiatrist, 
discussed a woman’s personal adjustment and process of 
discovery at the first lecture of the week long program 
“Women: Close-up ’75.” She stated, “Success, for many 
women, is manifested in an attractive figure, stunning 
dress, and/or the accomplishments of others, instead of 
discovering unique possibilities.” The emerging person in 
a woman suffers from anxiety about her adjustment and 
adaptation to a male-oriented world. This anxiety, Dr. 
Goldstein asserts, represents a block to the self; it 
restricts behavior, for these women are fearful.
Dr. Goldstein explained that women are afraid to 
leave traditional roles; they do not want to face “the 
Unknown, for any new experience is viewed only as a 
loss; unfamiliar positions are uncomfortable and thus 
undesirable. In addition, many women are afraid to lose 
the support of society by assuming non-traditional roles.
“Women are terrified to be alone. They think they 
cannot bear the emptiness that would result if they lost 
family and societal support.” Many women then search 
for a mate, nourishing the illusion that such a mate will 
guard against the “unknown” and satisfy “needs” of 
dependency.
Women who are unsure of their identities, but who 
do not want the traditional role, are afraid that they 
may appear masculine. They are assertive, aggressive and 
spontaneous. Women fear disapproval and ridicule if 
they act in a spontaneous manner, typically masculine, 
instead of a repressive, submissive feminine manner. 
Women have become “experts at indirect action or man­
ipulation.” If cold, instead of saying “Shut the win­
dow,” a woman will say “It is cold in here.” Women fear 
action and thus become “paralyzed human beings.” All
“Sexism is a disease and 
feminism is a way to cure 
it.” 
Wilma Scott Heide
of these anxieties, Dr. Goldstein stated, block the 
development of women. The fear of masculinity and 
thus social disapproval, discourage women to discover 
their own limitations and so instead stagnate at an early 
stage of development.
Because of these anxieties, women encounter con­
flicts men do not encounter. Often, men cannot even 
conceive how such anxieties could exist and “be real 
problems.” This lack of understanding compounds the 
problem, for instead of identifying and eradicating the 
conflict, they encourage, unknowlingly, long-learned be­
havior. _
The feminist is often viewed as a “castrating bitch,” 
out of the considered “norm.” Because of the bad con­
notations of these labels, many women are afraid to 
identify with the “feminist movement.” Dr. Goldstein 
explained that the feminist is viewed as an abnormal 
female; for the feminst, women are viewed as an oppress­
ed group; the feminist believes that the development of 
women is impeded by external forces. The feminist dares 
to define herself. The feminist discovers strong bonds 
with other women. The feminist establishes her own 
goals. The feminist trusts her own perceptions. For these 
reasons, the feminist is seen as a woman apart from the 
male-oriented world.
After explaining the difficulties of living in an un­
comfortable traditional role and the difficulties of ad­
hering to a positive feminist group. Dr. Goldstein rather 
ambiguously stated that she had no “blueprint for the 
new woman to follow.” Rather, she suggested that the 
revolution in women’s roles in society should be more 
realistically viewed as an evolution. That is, the role of 
women and a woman’s personal adjustment will evolve 
from the various factions in society.
******
Pam Freeman, counselor at the CMU Counseling 
Center, conducted a workshop on assertiveness. She ex­
plained that in an assertive response, an individual is not 
infringing on the rights of others by domination, but is 
still firmly expressing opinions. She added that many 
women are afraid to be assertive because they confuse it 
with aggressiveness, behavior based on domination and 
behavior which many women find repugnant.
The workshop consisted of viewing a film in which 
viewer response was elicited: twelve vignettes depicted 
situations where assertive behavior was necessary or the 
viewer would yield to the dominating behavior of others. 
After this film, the group discussed “how an individual
THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 9
would react” and “how an individual would like to 
react.”
General comments from the workshop revealed that 
some women are ndn-assertive because they fear un­
favorable opinion; at the same time, women feel self­
contempt or “lousy” for not expressing themselves. 
“Women don’t realize the avenues which are open to us. 
And, usually, if it involves going to a Small Claii '.s 
Court, many women do not bother.”
One of the basic ideas expressed was that wortr 
must regard themselves as important enough to be hear. 
Since women have traditionally been placed in serving 
positions, assertive behavior has been difficult to assume 
immediately. Finally, women tend to overlook the re­
sponsibility that they have to people: if women let 
traditional patterns and habits “slide,” they are in fact 
supporting a system that oppresses women.
******
Dragging out an old TARTAN from March of 1973,1 
discovered three pages of information about women. 
That year’s program was called “Up Your Image” and 
consisted of a series of events that lasted one day. The 
1975 program was much larger and more comprehensive 
series of events. Although the two programs were differ- 
ent, a common problem emerged: attendence. Chris 
Infante, my co-reporter for “Up Your Image” wrote, 
“But the most disappointing fact was the poor attend­
ance, especially of males. ” Two years later, a program 
embedded in the spring of International Women’s Year 
draws little interest from the people of Camegie-Mellon 
University.
Helen O’Bannon’s comments immediately surface in 
my mind “There are academically outstanding women 
here, more outstanding than one would expect, but 
these women haven’t coalated into a group that 
questions their identities.” She further believes that 
there are activities at the undergrad level for women at 
CMU to engage in that would enable women to respond 
intelligently and adequately to future pressure of all 
sorts. Activities such as questioning your identity, 
questioning your future, your life.
Ann Baldwin Taylor, a CMU administrator in edu­
cation and one of the organizers of “Women: Gose-up 
’75” thought that the ’75 program was very good. “The 
nice thing about the program was that it contained a 
good mix of students, staff and faculty; I was able to 
meet people that normally I woula never know. ” Al­
though she thought it was a good planning group and the 
program was excellent, she seemed somewhat dis­
appointed in attendence, but explained the lack of 
attendance on the priorities which exist at Camegie- 
Mellon. “Women’s issues are not a priority interest at 
CMU; students place their first priority on work and in 
some cases, social life. I don’t particularly like the way it 
is. The program- was successful in that it did create 
awareness. I think that if it affected six people, it was 
successful At least the program planted a seed that can 
cause a chain reaction in awareness and discussion. The 
program gave people a legitimate reason to talk about 
women and men, the human predicament. Unfortunate­
ly, men feel they have to be invited to such programs 
These events were about human rights, not just rights for 
women. ”
Marty Lisberger, co-chairperson with Sue Christian 
for Women’s Week, was not as content and cheerful 
about the success of the program. “The program was not 
successful Although the speakers were superb, the 
majority of the campus missed out. It’s too bad, because 
a lot of extremely important information was dis­
cussed ” She also added, “The women and men who 
needed the program the most did not come ” More 
cheerfully, Ms. Lisberger stated that the “people who 
did come got a lot out of it; the information was 
extremely important. ”
1975 is international Women’s Year. Women: Gose- 
up ’75"was certainly a tribute to the celebration of 
women. It seems unfortunate that response on campus 
did not match the excellent, superb quality of the pro­
gram.
Susanne Breisch

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-March 18,1975WRCT-Pulling More 
into Mainstream ?
continued from page 1
well-defined image of the station on the 
air. People should know what they’re going 
to get when they tune in -someone listen­
ing 7:00 Monday night should hear the 
same type of sound he’ll get 11:00 Tues­
day night.
“Then when we’ve consolidated our 
sound, we’ll work on making it interesting 
and entertaining. We’ve been thought of as 
background for so long, it’s time we pro­
vided a major entertainment factor, to the 
whole community as well as the campus. 
WRCT has be*n doing a less than adequate 
job serving the general public, to which we 
have a commitment.”
Reaction to the appointment appears to 
be generally quite favorable among staff 
members. “We were intellectualizing the 
format too much—Marius wants to pull it a
little more into the mainstream.”Music Director Elmer Harkema added
that “the staff had more free rein under 
Amie. But at any good station the PR )is a 
benevolent dictator. Marius will keep rap­
port with the staff, but he won’t let any­
one get over on him.”
Skip Edwards, WRCT News Director, 
said he was “very optimistic” about the 
change.
However, certain reservations have been
expressed among staff members because 
Marius plans to eliminate pre-recorded pub­
lic service announcements. He said he 
wants this done to provide some more 
rapport between jock and audience. “It’s 
very boring for the listener to hear a re­
corded message over and over. At least now 
they’ll get a different voice and a different 
delivery each time.”
Some jocks also said they’re not sure 
Misiunas will be able to handle all the 
work he’s cutting out for himself.
“Trying to pass your courses here and 
spending as much time in the studio as you 
should in a position like Marius has created 
quite a time problem. He has some great 
ideas, if he can make them work. If not, 
he’ll have to figure on making some 
changes,” one executive said.
Misiumas brings a lot of optimism to 
the job, however. “Recently the quality of 
the Pittsburgh media has really gone 
down,” he said. “I think we have a good 
chance to influence it, and become one of 
the better area stations.”
Known while on the air as “Mark Wain- 
wright,” Misiumas has worked at WRCT 
for three years and at six professional sta­
tions. He currently does a show for WESA 
in Charleroi, Pa.
WE’RE GEARING UP FOR ANOTHER SEMESTER
TARTAN elections will be held on April 10th at 8 p.m. 
The election will consist of two parts:
I. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
TARTAN elections will be held on April 
10th at 8 p.m.
The election will consist of two Parts:
I EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Candidates must have served on the TARTAN staff for 
one complete semester. They must be nominated by a 
current staff member. Election of the new editor will 
take place at this meeting.
II. ASSIGNING EDITORS
Candidates must be full-time CMU students. Tartan ex­
perience is not required. Nominations only will be 
taken at this meeting for : News, Entertainment, Sports 
and Photography Editors. Election will be by majority of 
the current members of the staff and editor seeks to 
manage at a later meeting.
For additional information, call (682-4557 or extension 
656) or visit (Room 50, 52 Skibo)
GIRLS. . . ARE YOU LOOKING 
FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able to teach 
one of the following: Theater Director, Piano Accompanist and singing. Archery, Ten­
nis Director, Golf, Photography, Cheerleading, Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. 
Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Skiing Instructor or General Athletics, 
Secretary also needed.
Write Camp Director. 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md., 21209
New Music ¦ Headcontinued from page 1
asked Page, now working at Temple 
University, is why he would want to leave 
Philadelphia, a city where he is well known 
and very active, to come to Pittsburgh. 
Leich remarked that Page wanted a change 
and a challenge, the challenge of running a 
whole school of music. Page also has Pitts­
burgh ties: his daughter Paula and son-in- 
law Tomas Fay, a one time oboe instructor 
at CMU, are members of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony.
Cyert himself remarked in an interview 
that the faculty and students felt that Page, 
a choral man, might not fit in well with the 
instrumental people in the department. 
However, student representative Lori 
Tiberio said that it was a misunderstanding 
on Cyert’s part—students and faculty both 
conceded early that a choral background 
would not affect their decisions. The stu­
dents, said Tiberio, wanted a department 
head who was willing to take on the rel­
atively humdrum job of an administrator, 
even if the man already possessed a wide 
reputation as a performer, as one always in 
the limelight. The department apparently 
has such a man in Page; according to Leich, 
the new department head will not assume 
any choral directing duties—these will re­
main under the direction of Professor 
Donald Wilkins. Page may form a small 
Baroque-size chorus to perform music from 
around that time, but that will be the 
extent of his choral involvement.
One condition of Page’s that CM * 
agreed to is that he could continue to work 
with the Geveland Orchestra choruses. The 
director of choruses there for the past four 
years, Page regularly commuted between 
Philadelphia and Cleveland. Since Pitts- 
burgh is some two hundred miles closer to 
Ohio, Page can take off for one day a week 
during the next season to prepare the 
Cleveland choruses for four concerts, anc^j 
to conduct two of them.
While some music students criticized 
Page’s appointment, the majority are 
excited about it. Several cite his aggressive 
style as a plus factor in the future admin­
istration of the department. A CMU sopho­
more in MIS who has sung under Page in 
Cleveland said “He’s tough—he’s a bear on 
attendance at his choir rehearsals—but he’ll| 
get the job done.” Such is Page’s reputa­
tion that when he was introduced to the 
CMU faculty and students at his meeting 
earlier this month, all present gave him a 
cheering ovation.
FINANCIAL AID 
AVAILABLE
BEOG
For the 1975-76 academic year many Freshmen, Sophomore 
and Junior students will be eligible for Basic Grants (BEOG) 
from the Federal Government. Applications are now 
available at the Financial Aid Office and they should be sub­
mitted by June 30, 1975. Students eligible for Basic Grants 
must apply if they are applying for aid from the University.
NOTE: Applications for the 1974-75 academic year are also 
available at the Financial Aid Office. These forms must be 
received by the government before March 15, 1975. If you 
have not yet filed for this year, please do so immediately.
PHEAA
All students, whether they are current recipients of a State 
Grant this year or not, must apply to PHEAA if they are from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and are applying for aid 
from CMU. Those students who are not currently recipients 
should pick up PHEAA applications at the Financial Aid Of­
fice 215 Warner Hall.
All Pennsylvania residents must apply even if they 
have been turned down in the past. PHEAA is constantly 
liberalizing criteria for State Grants and many more students 
should be eligible.
THE DEADLINE FOR PHEAA APPLICATIONS FOR THE 
1975-76 ACADEMIC YEAR IS MAY 1, 1975

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 11
photo by Elliot Popowitz
The Kiltie Symphony Band retrieved a standing ovation last Sunday. On April 11, the band will perform in New York's Carnegie Hall.
NEED HELP
planning an H&S3 education?
Upperclass students are 
available for information and 
advice.
The Student Advisors Program 
PH 17C, 12:30-4:30, Mon-Fri 
or call 621-2600 x8710
Tutoring for beginning 
ENGINEERING & SCIENCE 
classes 
is now available from 
Peer Help 
BH 150A or 621-9900
There's No Place 
Like Home . .
and if you'd like to go 
home for the Spring 
vacation, you should visit 
the CMU Travel Office. 
You can make reser­
vations on a plane, bus, 
train, ship or whatever.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE 
Room 40-A • Skibo 
Open: 1-5 pm, Mon. - Fri.
A Phi O Bus tickets also 
available

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-March 18,1975
by Amie Karr
Nothing lasts forever. The Monkees have 
disbanded. Redd Foxx is thinking of quit­
ting Sanford and Son. McLean Stevenson 
has already appointed Larry Linville as his 
replacement on M*A *S*H next season. On 
television, nothing is sacred.
Actors tire of their roles. Audiences get 
bored with programs they used to watch 
religiously.
like it or not, we’re all going to have to 
adjust to certain spin-offs, firings, contract 
negotiations, resignations, cancellations 
and character shifts. To help cushion the 
blow, I’ve prepared a list of programs and 
synopses that network executives are con­
sidering at this very moment (or some time 
in the near future).
THE AL JULIUS SHOW-Game show 
hosted by the KDKA-TV commentator. 
Contestants try to get a word in edgewise. 
LIONEL TRAINS- Young Jefferson learns 
to box.
PAPER SUN— Stevie Winwood makes act­
ing debut as talented rock keyboardsman. 
Eric Clapton, Ginger Baker and Rick Grech 
co-star.
HARPO AND THE MAN-The Man fires 
Chico in order to hire a deaf-mute, who he 
yells at all day.
WORSE TIMES-}} dies in a fight over 
bathroom use with sister Thelma. Father 
James loses his job and announces that the 
family can no longer afford to laugh. 
MARCUS WELBY, PFC-Robert Young 
tires of healing wounds and opts to inflict 
some. Plans are spoiled by outbreak of 
peace and MD does KP.
SANFORD’S SON-Lamant gets married, 
starts a family. Pam Grier plays the wife, 
Rodney Allan Rippey their first-born, 
Atticus. Side-splitting debut has Atticus 
calling Grandpa Fred an “Uncle Tom.” 
KODAK-Story of an Antarctic detective 
who does freelance reporting in his spare 
time.
BICENTENNIAL SECONDS-The way the 
weather was two hundred years ago.
WHITE HOUSE ON THE LEFT-TV 
movie about a possessed White House 
security guard who gets promoted. 
CORNER ZM/?-Dick Gregory stars as a 
bartender who won’t serve whites. William 
Kunstler is the ACLU lawyer.
PLANET OF THE POODLES-Astronauts 
are marooned on distant planet where 
poodles yelp humans into servitude. 
Colonel Colonial (Sebastion Cabot) saves 
the day by inventing and effectively using a 
durable muzzle.
JOHN-BOY—The adorable Walton goes to 
a college in the East, drops acid and 
occupies a dean’s office. He receives letters
from home, which he bums.
CATS CRADLE—Hi$i-budget TV movie 
in which the entire world is destroyed by 
ice-nine. Burt Lancaster is a pilot circling 
overhead and Steve McQueen a* fireman 
who attempts to bum away damage. 
NADER. REPORTS—Consumer advocate 
hosts interview program. On his first show 
he talks with packages of meat and canned 
fruits.
GROUCHO AND THE MAN—The Man 
fires Harpo in order to hire someone who 
can better insult his customers.
MY FRIEND FRIEDA-Larry Linville 
(M*A *S*ITs Frank Burns) is an American 
GI stationed in Germany towards the end 
of the 1930’s. There he befriends a pre­
cocious German teenager (Tatum O’Neal). 
Series ends when Nazis discover she’s 
Jewish.
MOT L WASHINGTON-Updated romance 
stories in Love American Style’s format. 
Peter Tork and Twiggy start things off as a 
married couple experimenting with S&M. 
George C. Scott is the proprietor who en­
joys changing the check-out time.
BURNS AND CO.—Frank Bums marries 
Hot Lips (Loretta Swit) after Mrs. Bums 
confesses she’s been having an affair 
Frank’s stockbroker. Pilot focuses on 
garet’s inability to cook a succulent meat 
loaf.
NEWS CENTER—Soap opera in which 
aging newswoman (Marie Torre) tries to 
remember her lines.
JUST GOOD FRIENDS-Jerry Van Dyke 
returns to television and tries to find a 
wife. His attempts are continually spoiled 
by his mother, a car, and his brother, 
major talent. Nancy Sinatra and Peter 
Fonda make several guest appearances. 
DANNY PARTRIDGE-Young rock star 
gets busted. Fans try to raise bail; fail. 
Danny starts folk-rock group behind bars. 
ZEPPO AND THE MAN-The Man fires 
Groucho in order to hire someone who 
knows about auto mechanics.
BRENDA—Rhoda’s kid sister discovers she 
has no life of her own. Series cancelled.
In addition, NBC is thinking of casting 
Tom Snyder as a news reporter.
PASSOVER SEDER 
AT A PRIVATE HOME
Or
WITH THE CONGREGATION 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 26
Be Rodef Shalom's Guest 
Fora Reservation
Call 621-6566 
Before March 20
by James Oliver Fletcher
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre closed 
their most successful season in its five-year 
history February 23 with a highly 
acclaimed “Romeo and Juliet” in Heinz 
Hall. It was a superb production with 
superlative performances by the lissome 
Jordeen Ivanov and Mercurial Alexander 
Filipov. Both this production and the com­
pany’s first offering of the season, 
“Giselle,” were certainly exemplary models 
of the PBTs abilities.
The Pennsylvania Ballet returns to Pitts­
burgh tonight at 8:00 pm in Heinz Hall. 
The program promises to be a varied and 
interesting one with Charles Czamy’s light­
hearted salute to sports, including soccer, 
shadow boxing, tightrope walking—even 
karate set to the music of Handel’s Con­
certo Grosso Opus 6 No. 5. Just recently 
added to the company’s repertoire, it will 
be given its premiere in Pittsburgh.
“Madrigalesco,” by Pennsylvania Ballet 
Artistic Director Benjamin Harkarvy, opens 
tonight’s program which also includes 
John Butler’s dramatic pas de deux, 
“After Eden” and the George Balanchine 
classic “Scotch Symphony.” Tickets are 
still available at the box office.
On Wednesday, March 19, George 
Faison, the choreographer of the current 
Broadway musical “The Wiz,” will bring 
his exciting dance company, the George 
Faison Universal Dance Experience to 
Pittsburgh for a performance Wednesday 
night at 8:00 pm at the Pittsburgh Play­
house.
In the short span of three years, Faison 
has made his Universal Dance Experience 
one of the most talked about and sought 
after dance companies in America. The 
Experience is a twelve-member, all-black 
company which reveals the whole of 
American Black History from the most joy­
ous occasions of its culture to the sadness 
and tragedy connected with its heritage. 
The Faison Company is this country’s only 
professional all-black modern dance com­
pany. While not derived from African or 
Caribbean influence, the Faison Dance Ex­
perience embodies the essence of the 
American Black Heritage in a theatrically 
pleasing and intense dance environment. 
Faison, who was a principal dancer for 
years with the Alvin Ailey Dancers, 
not only choreographs his company, but 
has had many triumphs in addition to “The 
Wiz:” Boradway’s musical hit “Don’t 
Bother Me V Can’t Cope, ” and “Inner 
City” for the New Theatre of Washington. 
His choreography has also been seen in 
several of the nation’s leading repertory 
theaters including the Afro-American Total 
Theatre, the New York Shakespeare Fes­
tival Public Theatre, the Lincoln Center 
Repertory Company, the Negro Ensemble 
Company and the New Theatre of Washing­
ton, D.C.
CHECK OUR COMPETITIVE PRICES 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTSSR50 “ST _ $ 114.95
Advertised
*the fu
Wall Street Journal this month Sen y
SR 51 ... 195.00 2550............. 53.00 With this Coupon —$5 Off
Toward Purchase of SR 50SR 10.52.00 SR 16...............82.45
SR 11 ... 60.00 Sharp Sq. Root. 29.95
CHECK WIENER'S PRICE- WE WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD
PMUP S. WIENER
229 Atwood Street. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Tel. (412) 683-0313
DANCE POTPOURRI

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 13
by Quiff
The guilty undertaker sighs
The lonesome organgrinder cries
The silver saxophones say I should refuse
you.
Jhe cracked bells and washed out horns
Blow into my face with scorn
You know I wasn’t born to lose-ose you.
I want you I want you I want you so-oo 
bad. I want you.*
I’m standing in a corner, watching thw 
alls meet. My scope of vision is very limit­
ed. The last time I found myself in this 
same place, I was staring the above lyrics 
right in the eye. The lyrics are from Bob 
Dylan’s “I Want You.” This song appeared 
on the Blonde on Blonde album and there is 
an important reason for noting this partic­
ular disc.
Blonde on Blonde was the first success­
ful two-record set of the rock and roll 
sixties. Dylan had beautifully combined 
stomg sensitive rock music with tear- 
jerking lyrics. Many of the songs were com­
posed by a man (one individual being) 
whose love had been scorned. The images 
that Bob Dylan conveyed were late night 
and early morning scenes of desolation, 
where the mind had overcome the direct 
reality of present everyday living. Dylan’s 
ideas had assumed life, his words were a 
significant part of many young listerners’ 
hip vocabulary. Symbolism was running 
rampant through his songs and the faces of 
Dylan’s characters were larger than life.
The reason that Blonde on Blonde is 
noted is because it is the record in which 
Dylan pooled his enormous talents. He had 
produced an album of unrequited love 
songs, singing- them as a violently angered 
poet. Though his vision was very immed­
iate, many of America’s young were tre­
mendously influenced and they seemed to 
relate on a personal level. It cannot be seen 
any simpler.
This was 1966 and Bob Dylan was 
riding another one of his cresting popu­
larity waves. 1 Blonde on Blonde would
GRADUATING?
You're probably right in the midst of your 
job search and finding that competition is 
especially keen this year.
Have you considered a professionally 
prepared resume? It is an excellent in­
vestment in your career strategy.
We compose your resume concisely and 
objectively - highlighting your achieve­
ments more effectively than a "do it 
yourself" attempt.
You get mail order convenience, printed 
(not Xeroxed) copies, a complete service 
at a very reasonable price, just $25. And 
your satisfaction is guaranteed.
For our free brochure at no obligation, 
write:
Career Development Division
MARTIN O BOYLE & ASSOCIATES M P O BOX 9094 PITTSBURGH PA 
15224
Dylan : On the Same Track
force is Bob Dylan, back stronger than 
ever. His new album has topped the charts, 
causing the most excitement that I’ve seen 
since the Beatles’ Abbey Road.
Yes, Bob Dylan is back and so is his 
bitter vision. The ten new Dylan songs are 
quite reminiscent of some older work by 
the poet. Blood on the Tracks is the title of 
the new disc and it’s stained with familiar 
themes of rejected love. Just as the cover 
picture suggests, Dylan is staring out of the 
murky haze. He’s very distrustful, absolute­
ly alienated. His words are completely un- 
forgiveable even though he still loves the 
woman who has forsaken him. It is safe to 
say that Blood on the Tracks is a tragedy. 
A man’s world has collapsed and every­
thing that was reassuring had betrayed him. 
Mobile and earthly images are the only 
escape that the sad singer sees. Poor Bob, 
he looked so good on the cover of News­
week.
In truth, Blood on the Tracks comes off 
sounding a wee bit strange after the first 
couple of thimes that one hears it. Every 
image is unique but the viewer is conscious 
that every picture is just a variation of all 
the others. Each song is purposely linked 
to all the other tunes. I mentioned before 
the Blonde on Blonde album and it appears 
that there is a direct connection between 
that album and Blood on the Tracks. It is 
the harsh perspective of the poet on both 
albums that makes that connection visible.
Many experiences from Dylan’s past sur­
face on this new record. Old fans will de­
light in the insight that Dylan lends to his 
younger days. “Tangled Up in Blue” is the 
continued on page 15
Kit Grover
r'
mark the last time that Dylan would sur­
face as a star performer (I emphasize per­
former) for eight long years. Bob Dylan 
would have the fatal motorcycle crash in 
symbolic Woodstock, N.Y. It is the same 
accident that forced the singer into semi- 
retirement and bolstered him from innova­
tive superstar to mythical rock demi-god.
Dylan’s recovery brought him to Nash- 
ville-town. His music developed a country 
twang and his lyrics mellowed. Bob was 
content to leave the pressures of the sixties 
behind for the easy life of the country. 
Dylan received a mountain of criticism be­
cause he was forsaking the ideals of the 
student left. Kent State had become a 
direct reaction to major movements that 
had been going on in America; some savior 
was needed. But Bob Dylan was not blind 
to the issues. He had been aware when few
were, he had done more than anyone to 
turn American youth on to the great prob­
lems. Not unlike Lenny Bruce (who is now 
the latest in martyr fads), Bob Dylan had 
run himself into the ground. All the fight­
ing that he had waged was now better left 
to others—Dylan was to perish or move on.
As a witness of the corner, I can swear 
that I saw Bob Dylan riding a white 
stallion. Then I peered back to find the 
poet adopting the austerity of the seven­
ties. He never promised anything, he only 
told what he had seen. Bob Dylan didn’t fit 
into anyone’s mold ’cause he was the 
independent variable that rock music of 
the 60’s had produced.
It is now 1975, whether we like it or 
not. We all have a lot of blood on our 
saddles. There is a new force in the air; this 
force is putting cracks in my corner. The
Temple University: Tyler School of Art in Rome
ACADEMIC YEAR OR SEMESTER ABROAD
Painting, Drawing, Printmaking, Sculpture,
Art History, Italian, Humanities 
School and Pensioni short walk from Spanish Steps 
Cultural trips to other Italian art centers 
Graduate or Undergraduate university credit
For catalog write tq Box 2910, Philadelphia, Pa. 19126
WORLDCAMPUSAFLOAT
Sail either in September 
or February, with the ship 
as your classroom and the world your campus ... com­
bine accredited study with 
fascinating visits to the fa­bled ports of the Caribbean, 
Africa, the Mediterranean, 
and the Americas. Over 10,-
000 undergraduates from 
450 colleges have already sailed with WCA — join them! Financial aid avail­
able. Write today for free catalog.
WCA, Chapman College 
Box F, Orange, CA 92666

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE T ART AN— March 18, 1975
You Can't Beat a Wild Tattoo
by John Mangano
It was only through sheer luck that I 
was able to see the Music Department’s 
production of “One Man Show”. Billed as 
the American premiere, it played only two 
nights, and was intended only for patrons 
of the opera program. Once again, the elite 
of Pittsburgh would flaunt art as a dusty 
custom suited only to aristocratic tastes. I, 
along with many other students of the 
theatre, would be deprived a view of this 
new masterwork. Then, a member of the 
cast presented me with two tickets, 
explaining that “I can’t even gjve these 
away.” ,
As representative of the rabble, I took 
extra care to polish my shoes in prepar­
ation, and dig my good pants out of the 
mothflakes for the occasion. But I’m 
happy to report that the grave pomposity 
of the evening faded with the houselights, 
and “One Man Show” swept me into a 
world that mocked the very pretentious­
ness surrounding the atmosphere of the 
“event.”
“One Man Show,” a comic opera by 
Nicholas Maw, with libretto by Arthur 
Jacobs, tells the highly implausible story of 
a man who sells himself as a work of art in 
order to raise money for his wedding. The 
physical attribute that makes him so 
unique is an intriguing tatoo etched upon 
his back during a recent night of drunken 
revelry. Two art critics set him up as the 
new wave in abstract art, and he is bought 
by a rich dame who fancies herself a trail- 
blazer. Of course, she installs “Joe” (as the 
piece is called) in her bedroom and in her 
desire to.prove art functional, loses him to 
his former fiancee and a life of small 
pleasures.
Amazingly enough, the situation is 
handled wittingly enough to sustain itself 
fcr two acts and four scenes. The strength 
of the score carried us safely over the 
rough spots in the libretto, and the in­
credible quartet that closed Act I was 
among the most exquisite musical 
moments I have ever witnessed. Conductor 
Rudolph Fellner was the nucleus that drew 
every’ element together to form an exciting 
evening.
David Koch, in the role of Joe, was a bit 
¡00 spasmodic to inspire any real interest 
oa my part. His rich baritone could not 
compensate for the steam shovel arms that 
swung wildly about in search of an outlet, 
nor the hulking form that reminded me of 
“The Great Garloo,” a childhood toy that 
could scoop whole sections of my Lionel 
trains up in his claw if one jiggled his 
batteries a bit.
Jimmie Lu Null, on the other hand, was 
poised and magnetic from her first en­
trance. As the lady buyer, die was the 
perfectly balanced element the opera re­
quired, radiating beauty and self-assurance 
around the circumference of the Fine Arts 
Theatre until the room glowed. Never once 
did she let technique show, and her acting 
skill was only surpassed by her vocal attrib­
utes.
Two rather interesting characters were 
defeated before they even opened their 
mouths, thanks to costume designs that 
can only be classified as “Late Schrafft’s.”
Colleen Besett (as Joe’s Fiancee) is the 
possessor of not only a beautiful soprano 
voice, but also a head of blondish hair, 
which someone obviously deemed unsuit­
able to her costume scheme. Rather than 
shave her scalp, which would have been 
desirable considering the alternative, some 
insistent fool must have gagged and bound
by Jack Rodney
Last weekend, Rod MacDonald and 
Sharon Davison starred in the AB coffee­
house. I had no intention of watching any 
guitar-strumming bearded traveler take up 
my Friday night; but when I wandered into 
the Wherrett Room for what I thought 
would be a moment, I wished I had been 
there when the concert began.
Rod performed original tunes about the 
open road and coming home to find bagels 
and lox for his Christmas breakfast. He was 
best friends with everyone in the crowded 
smoke-filled room both when he slid his 
fingers gracefully down the neck of his 
shiny guitar and when, in between songs, 
he tuned his instrument while telling stor­
ies about how he wrote the next song.
He appeared quite comfortable and 
sincere from the back of the room, but 
when I saw him perform from a close table, 
sweat rolled down his face fiercely; yet he 
played like the guitar was an extension of 
his fingers. Rod picked and strummed very 
well. A thousand guitarists could do the 
same. But he enhanced his folkish-rambling 
melodies with comical and sometimes 
moving lyrics that complemented his guitar 
arrangements.
One of Rod’s songs dealt with returning 
to his home town to find his high school 
girlfriend married, fat and living contently 
with a poor husband, surrounded by a few 
kids. When she sees her old flame she re-
her during the overture, and glued a ridic­
ulous red wig to her head. To those of us 
unfortunate enough to see this lovely girl’s 
appearance abused so cruelly, it was a rev­
elation. Meanwhile, Michael Knaub, (“the 
art critic”) went poking around in the cos­
tume shop after dark, and was obviously 
attacked by a red velvet Nehru jacket that
marks that he could have had all this.
While I absorbed the calm, yet exuber­
ant tone in Rod’s voice, my spirits left the 
coffeehouse and traveled to an arena where 
the same man performed. He traveled 
around the country in his songs and as a 
career; and I believe he’s got the talent as a 
composer/lyricist/performer to play for a 
crowd of twenty times the size of the 
Wherrett Room. His face would seem 
small, but his traveling wit would fill an 
audience of any size.
Sharon Davison opened the act and per­
formed between Rod’s sets. She began by 
asking for more volume and little by little 
she got it. She came across as a frail, young 
performer complete with a straining, some­
times warm rhythm in her voice. Her 
sounds vibrated through the speakers as 
though they originated from a voice behind 
the curtain, not the shy, smiling lady a foot 
from the microphone. Unlike Rod, none of 
her tunes were her own; yet she strummed 
and picked to folk tunes of Joni Mitchell, 
Leonard Cohen and Buffy St.-Marie. While 
her fingers gently swept from chord to 
chord, the audience was hers. She owned 
them when she experimented with a touch 
of Spanish strumming. And even when she 
attempted a rock song, her heavy voice 
worked well enough.
She sang of love and beauty common to 
all folk songs. Her introductions should 
have related to her songs. They didn’t. 
Unlike Rod, who tuned up swiftly while
refused to let go. All attempts at appeasing 
the monster (including the introduction of 
matching trousers) failed.
It seems fair to mention two other per­
formers, if only because they were merely 
remarkable. Amy Griffiths as the mousy 
secretary who finds womanly fulfillment at 
play’s end successfully avoided the cliches 
of the role, and played straight to the heart 
and funny bone. And Michelle Lang should 
lecture cross country on “Scene Stealing.” 
With three lines, two bedroom eyes, and a 
sultry sleaziness that could only have been 
acquired through years of extra-curricular 
activity, Ms. Lang blew the stolid citizens 
of Pittsburgh out of their plush velvet 
seats.
Kudos to Ronald Heilman, who mirac­
ulously succeeded in creating three attract­
ive sets (and one gilded birdcage) out of a 
measly budget of $800— Is this any way to 
treat our patrons and tax our imaginations?
There were so many marvelous 
moments that it is a shame that so few 
people were lucky enough to catch “One 
Man Show” during its brief exhibition. 
Certainly it had broad appeal, and perfor­
mances to be cherished. Since when is a 
cultural event, a premiere, important 
enough to be confined to a few selected 
patrons and die-hard gate-crashers? The 
campus and community should be let in on 
the secret fact that culture is not dead in 
Smog City, but merely inaccessible. Maybe 
it’s time for the peasants to revolt.
preparing the audience for the next song, 
Sharon let the audience know that for the 
next few moments, her guitar was going to 
be tuned. At first, she made a game out of 
it by pretending to teach students how to 
tune a guitar. But after a while, we simply 
waited fot a new tune to begin. She im­
itated children and animals between some 
songs. If anything worked against her, that 
did. Although she’s not a composer, her 
voice is strong enough and convincing 
enough to carry any folkish tune.
So, for those of you who missed the last 
coffeehouse, YOU MISSED a couple of 
sets by two fine musicians and singers.
e fo&S L\P
1000 Room-Size Rugs *
| 9x12s: $15-$ 19-$29-$39 j
| Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc. a
I Smaller area rugs in Oriental, ^
{ Indian and furry styles |
\ CHASE'S RUGS j
| 4513 Liberty Avo, Bloomfield \
'j (54-C bus lets off at the store) |
a Open daily 10 to 6 p.m., |
j Friday to I pan.. |
| Saturday til S pan. |
IFOR INFORMATION—DIRECTIONS-621-1025J
BOFFO AB COFFEEHOUSE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 18,1975-Page 15
perfect example of this. Dylan tells of the 
w0inan that he became entwined with. He 
is recalling traveling through cities such as 
New Orleans and Delacroix. The mobility 
theme stands out like a sore thumb. Even 
hard to please listeners will admit that 
there is some merit to what I’m saying. 
Dylan has never been less subtle than when 
he shouts, “Lord I paid some dues/getting 
through, Tangled up in Blue”**
“Idiot Wind” and “If You See Her Say 
Hello” are just two more cuts that pursue 
the idea of mobility. The latter cut opens 
with, “If you see her say hello , she might 
be in Tangiers.” Dylan admits to the separ­
ation here. The woman is gone, her where­
abouts are unknown but from what the 
listener can deduce, she can probably be 
found in some place of foreign intrigue. 
Perhaps the intrigue is only the the singer’s 
heart. Hmmm!
Musically, Dylan draws a lot of his 
melodic ideas from past efforts. Dylan’s 
acoustic guitar and searing harmonica are 
the main instrumentation used, much like 
in his previous works. He is helped out by 
steel guitarist Buddy Cage from the New 
Riders of the Purple Sage as well as Eric 
(“Dueling Banjos”) Weissberg and Deliver­
ance. The instrumentation is fine, but it is 
without a doubt the vocals that lend true 
insight into this album. It is at this point 
that I have to defend Bob Dylan as a sing­
er. Though his raspiness is often blamed for 
turning many listeners off, it is this distinct 
sound that has made Dylan the most influ­
c0ntinued from page 13
ential singer of the last fifteen years. That 
harsh voice makes individual lyrics stand 
out. He screeches, he strains, he is recog­
nized immediately on any record because 
of his nasal sound.
Before I try to sum anything up, I have 
to mention the impact of two specific cuts.
RESUMES
•designed just lor you!' 
Student Specials
Phone: 281-4020 or write
Hughes & Wilden, Inc.
Employment Consultants
2900 Koppers Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..............................................7:00 P.M_____Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.........................10:30 A.M. —Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ..................................................................Tech House
(M thru F—5:00 P.M.) (T.Th—8:00 A.M.) (W,F—12/NOON)
(inskibo39)
Lenten Prayer Service—Tues. 7:30 P.M. at Tech House 
The Community House is the Tech House *5125 Margaret Morrison
y Among other things,
THE TUCKERS
Have
Used, Rare, £r Out-of-Print BOOKS
- For Study or Pleasure - For Owning or Giving - 
S. (Free Search Service, Too U 
2703 MURRAY AVENUE. SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521 0249 
(Hours flexible - best call ahead)
The first is “You’re Gonna Make Me Lone­
some When You Go.” Dylan sums up the 
whole situation with this naked love song. 
Here agian, the poet is traveling, he is 
thinking of the lonesome future. Dylan’s 
words spit out quickly and the whole song 
reminds me of the classic “It Ain’t Me, 
Babe.” ________- ..
“You’re gonna make me wonder what 
I’m doing,
Staying far behind without you,
You’re gonna make me wonder what 
Fm saying,
You’re gonna make me give myself a 
good talking to.**
“Meet Me in the Morning” is the other 
standout cut that should be noted. Dylan is 
calling for someone (somewhere) to meet 
him in the morning. He is now aware of the 
great struggle that takes place in a relation­
ship that’s gone bad. It looks like Dylan is 
standing in a comer quite similar to my 
own. Ironically, the music to this song is a 
traditional 12-bar blues progression. Some 
uncredited Minnesota musicians provide 
the background instrumentals and it comes 
off as clearly as anything that I’ve ever 
heard Dylan do.
Actually, I’ve always wanted to review a 
Dylan album. If time and space would have 
allowed, I would have looked this new disc 
over with a magnifying glass. The album is 
not perfect and only time will be the true 
judge of it. Love sometimes blinds people 
to the cold hard facts and rejected love 
forces a lot of ill conjecture. Bob Dylan 
will not be able to sustain these bitter 
feelings, just as I will not be able to remain 
in my lonesome corner. The poet and 
myself have always had common feelings; 
Blood on the Tracks is no exception.
I won’t let my own personal feelings 
stand in the way of how I feel about Blood 
on the Tracks. It is too personally con­
ceived, Dylan is too caught up in his own 
split-second thoughts. I don’t know quite 
how to put this, but life’s special moments 
are too precious and few. I wouldn’t take 
back the events that brought me to this 
comer—come on, Bob, remember what you 
had.
So folks, open your eyes to the beauty 
of life, to love and to Blood on the Tracks. 
Don’t be fooled by other people’s hangups 
and personal intimidations. Remember, 
don’t follow leaders (oh yea, watch your 
parking meters!).
**Rams Horn Music 
*Dwarf Music
SLEUTH ^
the inside story of the FBI
Lecture/Demonstration 
Wherrett Room 
Wednesday, March 19
sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975
The United States premiere of “Auroris—
A Symphonic Movement” by Leonardo 
Balada will be presented during a concert 
of contemporary music by the Carrnegie 
-Mellon College/Community Orchestra in 
Carnegie Music Hall at 8 pm Wednesday, 
March 19. The selection, composed by 
Leonardo Balada, professor of music at 
Camegie-Mellon University, was first 
played by the National Orchestra of Spain 
with Rafael Fruhbeck de Burgos conduct­
ing last season in Madrid.
The free, publio-concert March 19 will 
be conducted by Professor Balada.
The spring production of the South Oak­
land Arts Council in cooperation with the 
City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Parks 
and Recreation will be Beggar On Horse­
back by George S. Kaufmann and Marc 
Connelly.
Set in the late 1920’s, Beggar On Horse­
back is a satiric-comedy which presents the 
conflict between bureaucracy and capital­
ism on one hand and artistic expression on 
the other.
Performances of Beggar on Horseback 
by the South Oakland Arts Council, which 
is unded by the Pittsburgh Model Cities 
Program will be at 8:30 pm, Tuesday 
ih ough Saturday, April 1-5 and Tuesday 
through Friday, April 8-11 in the new 
Allegheny Community Theatre, Allegheny 
Square, North Side.
h Christy Minstrels set longevity records 
in the entertainment field around the turn 
of the century, and their namesake of 
today, the New Christy Minstrels, is striv­
ing for some of the same honors.
The familiar folk-singing group will 
appear in concert at Pittsburgh’s Heinz Hall 
on Sunday, April 6 at 8 pm, sponsored by 
die VMCA of Pittsburgh.
¿dwin “Pops” Christy formed the orig- 
nal act in 1842, and using much of 
Stephen Foster’s music, the act became the 
;ongest-running success in show business 
before disbanding in 1921.
The New Christy Minstrels appeared for 
the first time in 1961, and since then have 
done just about eveiything a group can do in 
show business. In all, some 45 million 
people have watched them perform.
Proceeds from the event will be used to 
uprort YMCA youth work. The YMCA of 
Pittsburgh served over 30,000 youngsters 
¦\.,l year and is serving more under­
privileged children than any other agency 
in Allegheny County. A United Way 
.•gency, the YMCA never turns a child 
;v/ay because of inability to pay.
Tickets for the concert are available at
Heinz Hall Box Office, 600 Penn Ave., 
¦V burgh, Pa. 15222, phone, 281-5000. In 
the Pittsburgh area, tickets can also be pur­
chased at all Kaufmann’s, Sears and 
'iational Record Marts, and at GimbePs 
fj d Home’s downtown.
Michelangelo did it on ceilings, Leonardo 
¦)i Vinci did it on walls. And Robert 
i Tuillemin does it on sidewalks.
Better known as Sidewalk Sam, this 
Hoston artist recreates Old Masters in chalk 
right on the sidewalk, chatting with the
,1 - :
Electric Factory Concerts is proud to
present an evening with the LETTERMEN 
on Sunday, March 23 at 8 pm at the Syria 
Mosque. Tickets are priced at $6.50, $5.50 
and $4.50.
If you believe that the family dog rep. 
resents the epitome of faith, Gibralter is 
the rock eternal, the Eiffel Tower will 
stand forever, the Sphinx is never to reveal 
its secrets, then you will have some idea of 
the faith of the followers of the Lettermen. 
This trio has spent over a decade develop 
ing fans who are such staunch followers 
that every time the word Lettermen 
appears on an album, it means an auto­
matic minimum sale of 200,000.
Their success can be attributed to many 
tilings; their own sound . .. their own 
choice of material... their own arrange­
ments and most important... the art of 
not recording anything they can not dup­
licate in a live, in person, appearance.
“When I Fall in Love,’' “Come Back 
Silly Girl,” “Theme From a Summer 
Place,” “Put Your Head on My Shoulder,” 
“Hurt So Bad,” and their classic medley 
“Going Out of My Head/Can’t Take My 
Eyes Off of You.” After a show like 
that... not a dry eye would remain.
crowds who gather to watch.
Sidewalk Sam will be a feature at­
traction at the Three Rivers Arts Festival in 
Pittsburgh during the first four days of the 
Festival, May 23,24,25 and 26. The free 
outdoor Festival will run through June 1.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival, which is 
sponsored by Carnegie Institute, has gone 
to an all-juried show this year. Any tri-state 
resident is eligible to enter the shows in 
painting and sculpture, crafts, photography 
and banners. In addition, rental space will 
again be available in the Open Show for 
paintings, original prints and small sculp­
ture. This space is allotted on a first come, 
first served basis.
To obtain an entry form, residents are 
asked to send a stamped, self*addressed No.
10 business envelope to the Festival Office, 
4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Please specify what type of entry 
or shows you will be entering.
Work for all juried shows is due April 
19, 1975.
theMCAT1
Review Seminar
Intensive Weekend 
Preparation 
for the May 3rd MCAT Taught by 
Practicing Physicians
The instructing Physician otters the 
prospective medical student a thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as well as an 
evaluation ot the candidate's strengths 
and weaknesses Each section of the 
Test is extensively simulated and care­
fully reviewed
Complete tuition, including materials, is 
$95.00
Stat« Col logo— April 5 & 6 
Philadelphia— April 12*13 
Pittsburgh— April 19 ft 20
for further Information 
Call collect
814*435-6521
or write:
MCAT Review Center,
32 Qramercy Parfc South 
Now York, N.Y. 10003
CARNEGIE-MELLON COLLEGE/ 
COMMUNITY ORCHESTRA
LEONARDO BALADA
Guest Conductor
FREE ADMISSION
Contemporary Music Program 
Wednesday, March -19th, 8:00 p.m. 
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
Works Include:
I. Stravinsky's “The Soldier's Tale” 
L. Balada'a “Auroris - A symphonic Movement"
- U. S. Premiere 
and compositions by Nobre, Watts, Zimmerman and Bamert

---------------------------------------------------

"Doll's House " A TISSUE of LIES
by Suzanne Breisch
In “A Doll’s House”, Ibsen reveals the 
devastating phoniness of roles in marriage; 
he declares, more generally, that the lies 
and illustions that govern human relat­
ionships must be removed. After a viewing 
0f the film, starring Jane Fonda, Professor 
of Drama Leon Katz discussed the distort­
ion of the film adaptation and the rele­
vancy of Ibsen in today’s society.
Professor Katz suggested that the basic 
distertion occurred at the conclusion of the 
film when Nora (Jane Fonda) slams the 
door and leaves the doll house Torvald and 
her husband. In this situation, Nora is leav­
ing to “satisfy her inner self’, and for this 
reason the film affects the viewer differ­
ently than Ibsen’s play. Ibsen intended 
Nora to leave in order to“find out about 
society, what is true, what is false”-not an 
“inward search”. In fact, characters who 
look inward are dangerous, for they épouse 
‘truth for me that must apply to every­
one”, and either destroy the lives of others 
because of this narrow interpretation of 
the “truth” or by identifying the “tender 
spider webs of illustion” and revealing the 
truth. For many, this truth is so unendura­
ble that the “kinder act is not to reveal the 
illusion”. A conflict surfaces: how does
one i.e. Ibsen, the artist initiate social 
change. Ibsen submits that discovery must 
evolve from individual uncovering; that is, 
the individual seeks the reality in society.
LEGAL AND SOCIAL TRENDS 
IN SOUTH AFRICA TODAY
RONALD DAVENPORT,
Dean of Duquesne University Law School
Tuesday, March 18, 1975 
7:30 PM.
HAMERSCHLAG LOUNGE
Sponsored By
RESIDENT LIFE PROGRAMS
The individual must go through a 
regeneration and eventually reach a state 
where the self is perceived as a “com­
munity of self’, where we are all a member 
of one another. The human being is then 
defined by moral integrity.
Marriage is perhaps the microcosm of 
life; the abolition of the illusions surround­
ing marriage will perhaps destroy the illu 
ions present in other shadows of life. In “A 
Doll’s House”, Nora lives in a complex of 
illusions based on genuine fantasy. Her 
faith that her husband is a knight who is 
willing to sacrifice his honor for her is sha 
tered in the final scenes; her fantasy is 
by-passed. Torvald lives in an illusion 
pertaining to the role of his wife. Through­
out the play/ film, he must teach Nora to 
fit the illusion ;she must be childish, 
dependent. He is also affected by his illus­
ion that a man’s honor must be sustained 
above everything else in life.
When human beings confront one 
another, they usually confront masks and 
by-pass people ;after the masquerade party 
in the film where everyone is visibly and 
quite obviously wearing a mask, the 
Doctor,i.e. friend of the family, declares 
that at the next party, he will wear a “cos­
tume of invisibility”, no mask at all. Absol­
ute honesty and direct communication 
eradicate the illusory lie, that govern hum­
an relations.
Professor Katz shifted his analysis to the 
relevance “A Doll’s House” has in the 
modem era: in today’s society, as in 
Ibsen’s play, culture accomodates illus­
tions. Professor Katz believes that the 
Women’s Liberation Movement is supplant­
ing one illusion with another illusion, 
by-passing reality-.ultimately reality cannot 
be described. Woman as a sex symbol/ 
object is replaced by an antithesis which 
again relies on generalizations, categories.
Professor Katz sees no benefit to the 
notion of images. “Images are based on 
illustions, generalizations that deny 
reality.” Humans, he contends, must live 
their own life as “themselves” instead of 
living a role where guilt and dissatisfaction 
seep into the spirit.
Truth dies every 15 years. With this in 
mind Professor Katz declared that it was ’ 
that it was “shameful” that Ibsen’s “A 
Doll’s House” is the most relevant pice of 
literature that describes human 
relationships. Although the play/film does 
contain taboos not present in today’s 
society (extreme aut ritarian figure of 
Torvald; manipulative character of Nora, it
Leon Katzphoto by John Shettel
still depicts the basic illusions prevalent in 
human relationships-then and now.
Ultimately, the function for living is to 
pursue complete honesty and direct 
communication with people,“the miracle”. 
Nora, in her last,strong, speech says to her 
husband, “I don’t believe in miracles 
anymore, but I am going to achieve a 
miracle.”
Representatives from the Women’s 
Suffrage asked Ibsen to speak at one of 
their conventions 100 years ago. 
Apparently, the illusions were discovered, 
but not incorporated into culture,-for 
today the miracle has still not happened.
SALARIED POSITIONS AT 
THE TARTAN.........................NOW
Would you like a paying job on the weekend? We 
need additional typesetters and layout personnel. If you 
feel the skills necessary for either of these positions, 
give us a call (682-4557 or ext 656) or stop by at Room 
50, Skibo. Ask for Gary or Debbie.
The Tartan is an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-March 18,1975sports
WANTED
YOU---
STEREO 108 - 7PM-1AM
STARTS MARCH 31ST ON WEEP
Tartans 
Win Two
IF YOU’RE INTO: THE EAGLES,
WAYLON JENNINGS, MARSHALL- 
TUCKER BAND, NEW RIDERS, POCO, 
BLUE GRASS MUSIC, ETC.
CMU Hockey Final League Scoring
G A Pts. PIM
Cornelius11
Goldsmith13
Kenworthy8
Stuever8
Arturo9
Gallaway4
Hauser6
Grimm3
Eastman1
Miller1
Leety1
Eberle1
Graves0
Wilkinson0
Hutchinson1
Fuchs0
Sciulli0
Bouse0
Johnston0
McConnell0
172827
9228
122012
111927
9. 184.
8122
2~. . .. .a.4
.586
45 V; t : 14
4515
344
12 -0
220
220
014
1*12
1114
112
002
004
by Dave Girdany
CMU 11, Indiana 0 and CMU 5, Penn 
State 4 were the scores on the weekend of 
January 25 and 26, and these two games 
were probably the Tartans’ finest efforts of 
the season. Then Tom Grimm fractured his 
wrist in the third period of the Penn State 
game and the Tartans looked like they 
might never reach that peak again. Lineups 
were juggled while Tom was out. Later 
Murray Leety joined the team, and this 
caused more lineup changing. But Indiana 
was again the opponent on Wednesday 
night March 12 in Kittanning and Thursday 
night in the first round of the WPIHA 
playoffs at the Civic Arena. This Indiana 
team was much better than the team the 
Tartans destroyed earlier in the year, as the 
4-2 Wednesday night victory indicates. But 
now it appears that the previous peak was
again reached in a game against Indiana at 
the Civic Arena. Playing like a good team 
should in the playoffs, CMU stomped the 
Indians 7-0. Offense and defense combined 
in this fine team effort. Dave Cornelius 
scored the three-goal hat trick 
added an assist for a four point >game.
Well, the peak has been 
their best the Tartans are 
WPIHA.
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
Goalie Frank Sciulli (1) and four Tartan skaters defend the Tartan net.
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
April 5-6
by Dave Girdany
Four of the best hockey teams from the 
general area will participate in the first 
annual Rotary Invitational College Hockey 
Tournament on Saturday and Sunday 
afternoons, April 5 and 6 at the Civic Are­
na. Competing in this tournament will be 
CMU, Navy, Penn State and Pitt. On Satur­
day afternoon CMU will meet Navy and 
Penn State will face Pitt. On Sunday, the 
winners will battle for the championship 
and the losers will play for third place.
In action among these four teams earlier 
this season, Navy defeated Pitt 3-2, Penn 
State beat Navy 9-2, CMU beat Penn State 
5-4 and CMU lost to Pitt 8-3 and 4-3.
Tickets for the game will be available 
the week before at the Information Desk 
and from team members for $1.50. An ^ 
exciting weekend of hockey is promised. 
The Rotary Club is putting a lot of time 
and money into the promotion of the tour­
nament. Ten thousand people are expec­
ted. Be there.
FINAL REGULAR SEASON HOCKEY 
STANDINGS
TEAM W/L PTS GF GA
Pitt 12-0-0- 24 114 21
Duquesne 7-5-0 14
Indiana U (Pa) 6-6-0 12
St. Vincent 5-7-0
PS (McKees.) 1-1
St Francis
Wednesday 
First Period (1) CMU-Goldsmith 13 (Grim- 
m, Domelius) 1:32 (2) CMU-Kenworthy 8 
(Goldsmith, Eastman) 2:08 (3) CMU- 
-Grimm 3 (Cornelius) 6:30 
Second Period (4) Ind-Schweitz (Sanders) 
4:31 (5) IndArnold (Cellone) 14: 33 
Third Period (6) CMU Arturo 9 (Gallaway, 
Stuever) 1:51
Thursday
First Period (1) Kenworthy. 1 1:4.1 (2) Gal­
laway 1 5:33 (3) Cornelius 1 (Grimm) 7:21 
(4) Arturo 1 (Gallaway, Stuever) 10:59 (5) 
Cornelius 2 13:36
Second Period (6) Grimm 1 (Bouse, 
Cornelius) 10:11
Third Period (7) Cornelius 3 6:34
Hockey Tourney 
Scheduled for

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 18, 1975-Page 19
Women's B-Ball Ends
by Gordon Morrison
The CMU women’s basketball team 
finished their season with six wins and six 
losses, despite more injuries than ever 
before. Almost everyone had to be taped 
for some sort of injury or missed at least 
one game, either due to an injury or 
academic pressure.
CMU Beats Cal. State in Overtime
The games were generally very close, 
especially the last three games. CMU beat 
California State College (PA) 48-47 in 
overtime. Cal. State tied the game at 42 all 
with 10 seconds left. CMU got the ball 
down court and the last shot was taken by 
Elly Zimmerman. There were three CMU 
players waiting for the rebound, but the 
ball just sat on the rim until the buzzer 
sounded. In the overtime, CMU jumped 
out to a quick lead on three baskets by 
Elly Zimmerman and a quick defense that 
only allowed hurried shots. Elly led the 
team with 26 points, while Cindy 
Whitmore had 9 and Ingrid Goedicke had 8 
points.
The CMU team was beaten in their next 
game against Bethany by a score of 42-27. 
Although they were beaten 22-7 in the first 
half, the second half proved to be a dif­
ferent game. The women played stretches 
of great basketball, then lapsed back to the 
more ragged style of the first half and most 
of the previous games. Ingrid Goedicke led 
the team with 13 points and Elly 
Zimmerman had 10. In the rebound 
department, Elly had 14 and Ann 
Michelson had 11.
Season Ends vs. Thiel
The last game of the season was against 
the highly rated Thiel College. Thiel is 
ranked as one of the top women’s 
basketball teams in the state. The CMU 
women played one of their best games of 
the year, only to lose 45-35. Marty 
Lisberger and Cindy Whitmore, both senior 
starters playing their last game, their best 
all around game of the season and possibly 
their careers. Everyone on the team was 
stealing passes and blocking shots and they
set a team record for the fewest turnovers 
in a game. CMU also outrebounded the 
taller Thiel team. Marty Lisberger led the 
team with 11 points (14 rebounds), while 
Elly Zimmerman had 10 points (18 
rebounds), Ingrid Goedicke had 8 points (5 
rebounds) and Cindy Whitmore had 6 
points (8 rebounds).
The team is losing four seniors, Marty 
Lisberger, Cindy Whitmore, Linda 
Ackerman, and Barb Toole and only has 
one junior. The rest are sophomores and 
“freshmen”, so the team should be fairly 
strong again next year.
Fencing News
by Elly Zimmerman
The CMU Varisty Fencing team and the 
Fencing Club have had many trounaments 
recently. On February 16 the INtercol- 
legiate Novice and Intermediate Tourn­
ament was held at CMU. 59 students from 
6 schools participated. The schools 
represented were C.S.C., I.U.P., Pitt, P.S.U. 
(McKeesport), Allegheny College and 
CMU. Joe Sivak, a junior at CMu, finished 
first in Men’s Novice. Another CMU stu­
dent, Miriam Whitworth, finished third in 
Women’s Novice.
CMU Men On Top of Indiana
The next tournament was held on 
March 4 at CMU. The results were:
Men: Indiana’s A team defeated CMLTs 
A and B teams. CMlfs A team beat 
Indiana’s B team.
Women’ Indiana’s A team beat CMU’s A 
team.
Men Undefeated at PSU
The following tournament (men’s foil) 
was held at P.S.U. Fayette campus. The 
CMU men’s A team won all of their 
matches, but our B team was not as lucky 
and had no wins.
Women Win on March 8
On Saturday, March 8 an Intercollegiate 
Women’s Foil Tournament was held at 
CMU. The final standings were:
CMU Club (firsOjIUP A (second), PSU- 
CSC (combined team) (third), CMU A 
(fourth), IUP B (fifth) and CMU C (sixth).
March 11 at Indiana
On March 11 Men’s and Women’s Foil 
Intercollegiate Tournament was held at In­
diana. The CMU Women’s A team lost a 
very close match to Indiana’s A team with 
the score of 4-5 but they went on to easily
FOR A SMOOTH START ON THE GROUND, RIDE THE A PHI O 
SPRING SHUTTLEBUS TO THE GREATER PITTSBURGH AIRPORT.
Three times on Friday, March 21, 1975, a chartered PAT Coach with capacious luggage compartments is 
making trips from the Morewood Gardens' Main Entrance (11:45 p.m., 2:15 p.m., 4:45 p.m.) to the Con­
ner Hall Main Entrance (12:00 Noon, 2:30 p.m., 5:00 p.m.) and thence, directly to the Greater Pittsburgh 
Airport (1 p.m., 3:30 p.m. and approximately 6 p.m.). Cost is $1.75. Make arrangements at Morewood Main 
Desk, Skibo Information Desk or at the Tartan Travel Office.
defeat I.U.P.’s B and C teams. The team 
members were Miriam Whitworth, Debby 
Lasher and Diane Wilk.
The CMU Men’s A team beat Indiana’s 
A team easily with a final score of 8-4 in 
well-fought bouts. Individual results were 
as follows:
Men's A Team
Victor Brenen 
Tim Hoffman 
Gordon Morrison
Individual Victories Losses 
4 0
1 3
3 1
Later the team defeated Indiana’s B team 
with the final score of 6-3.
March 12 Tournament
The next tournament was held on 
March 12 at CMU against California State 
College. CMU Men’s A team easily defeated 
CSC’s A team with the final score of 9-6 
but surprisingly lost to CSC’s B team later 
in the tournament. The CMU Men’s B team 
defeated CSC’s B team by a score of 5-4 
but later lost to CSC’s A team. CMU’s A 
team was Victor Brennen, Tim Hoffman 
and Gordon Morrison. CMU’s B team mem­
bers were Tom Kendig, Franklun Duck and 
Eric Zischau.
In the women’s division CMU’s A team 
lost to CSC’s A team in a clsoe match 
(4-5). Then went on to defeat CSC’s B 
team in another close match (5-4). The A 
team members were Debbie Lasher, Joan 
Gravitz and Miriam Whitworth. CMlPs B 
team, Angela Lenden, Crystal Hoffman, 
Margo Sullivan and Jenny Willis, lost both 
of the team matches to CSC’s A and B 
teams.
Debbie Lasher First
The latest tournament (AFLA Novice) 
was on Saturday, March 15 at CMU. 21 
women and 10 men competed. In the 
women’s event Debbie Lasher (CMU) fin­
ished in first place and Cheryl Jenkins, 
another CMU student finished in sixth. 
Two emu students also placed in the men’s 
division. They were: Bill Williams, first 
place and Franklin Duck, third.
There are only a few more tournaments 
left on the fencing schedule. On April 8, 
CMU Men’s and Women’s Varsity Fencing 
Teams will compete at CSC. The best of 
luch to the team and their coach, Jane 
Fisk.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-March 18. 1975
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
OF CMU 
UNITE!
Whip out your telephoto lenses and enter 
the TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST
1) Still life
Categories:
3) Technical
2) People
Entries, 3 per student, may be in B & W or color. Winners will 
be exhibited at the Arts & Crafts Area of Spring Carnival. Sub­
mit your photos between April 9 * 14 at the Skibo Info Desk. 
All photos must be mounted, unframed, and not exceed 11" x 
14". Give your creativity a good work-out. Then come see us!
ALL STUDENT GOVERNMENT CANDIDATES
pick up TARTAN questions and photograph
information on Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday, March 19, 20, 21 from the Student
Government Secretary, Skibo room 10.
BILL CURRIE
SPORTS PHENOMENA
MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1975
8:00 P.M. — WHERRET ROOM, SKIBO 
FREE WITH CMU ID .75 WITHOUT
SPONSORED BY A.B. LECTURES
