Volume 87, Issue 9Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 Novembe
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Staffwriter
At Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting, more amendments to the new bylaws of the student body were adopted. They in­cluded Student Senate’s fiscal policy concerning the funding of booth and buggy for indepen­dent organizations such as FRINGE and Pioneers. The changes in the proposed bylaws,
which originated in Senate’s Con­stitution Committee, chaired by Senator Greg Haverkamp (CIT), included stipulations that a new buggy may be funded by the Ac­tivities Fee once every four years (up from three years), and that Activities Fee money will fund no more than 50 percent of the cost of an organization’s booth per year (down from 67 percent).Three proposals were made amend to Article VI, Sections F
and G of the proposed new by­laws. The first proposal was made by Senator Michael Loomis (GSIA) to change the time for funding of a new buggy from three years to four years, which passed by a vote of 13-6-1. Loomis says, “[The proposal] was suggested to me by other people.... We read the proposals that were given by the Constitution Committee and basically cut the cost to what the 
Please see SENATE, page 7
Thefts plague CFA art studios
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Artists’ studios on the fourth floor of the College of Fine Arts have been hit by an increase in thefts and vandalism over the past two weeks.Items stolen include finished paintings, canvas, art supplies, hand tools, and per­sonal items.According to Kath­ryn Sitter, student af­fairs coordinator for the Art Department, “This is not the first time we have had noticeable thefts.... [This time] it is better recorded and students are joining forces and trying to do something about it.”Stephanie Serpick, a senior art major
who was affected by the recent thefts, “Please be vigilant regarding personal thinks that they may have been caused safety and the security of personal pos- by people from outside CFA. “People sessions, both for yourself and others." often just come up and stroll around and Art Department policy states that all look in studios. People should know that offices, classrooms, and studios exceptthose on the third floor of CFA should be locked and indi­vidual studio doors in CFA and Doherty Hall should be locked at all times.The September memo also said the department had re- quested that Cam-this is not public space ... Since this has pus Police “make sure that all Art De­happened, eveiyone has been more care- partment facilities in CFA and Doherty ful.” are secure between midnight and 8 amThe CFA studio space has always been on weekdays and from midnight on Fri- vulnerable. A memo sent on September day through 8 am on Monday."
P to students with studio space said, Please see leas page 6
“When I was a sophomore, my classmate 
had her drawing damaged and the roll of 
paper it was attached to stolen. What kind 
of working environment is that?”
— Faye Levine, senior illustration major
Clinton speaks to Pittsburghers
THE TARTAN
GSIA ranking plummets
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Because of low ratings from students, Carnegie Mellon’s GSIA is no longer among the nation’s 10 best business schools, accord­ing to Business Week's biannual 
survey.Student dissatisfaction among the class of1992 caused the busi­ness school’s rankingto drop from ninth to 17th place, the largest drop of any of the top 20 schools ranked by Business Week in its October 26 issue.
Even though students found the administration to be the least responsive to student concerns of any of the schools in the top 20, GSIA’s rating was bolstered by its high standing among corpo­rate recruiters, who ranked the school ninth in the country, up two notches from the previous survey.To arrive at a school’s rating, 
Business Week combines results from a questionnaire sent to graduating students from that school and results from surveys sent to 352 companies who re-
cruit business school graudates.Robert Sullivan, dean of GSIA, said the precipitous drop in stu­dent ratings was caused by the changes taking place at the school.In the last few years, said Sullivan, “We had the largest class with the smallest amount of space and no dean.”“We lost our biggest piece of the old GSIA building. We had an outgoing dean, then an interim dean in a caretaker sense.... The students wanted to send us a 
Please see GSIA, page 4Senate enacts new 
booth, buggy legislation
Inside
Classifieds
Comics.....
Diversions 
Features...
Forum.....
Sports......
Calendar... 
Vox Populi
By TARA M. SEMAN
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
At noon on Friday, Democratic Presi- dential candidate Governor Bill Clinton spoke to a crowd of support­ers that patiently waited in Market Square, even through the typical Pitts­burgh drizzle. Clinton’s arrival was greeted with cheers of “Four more
State Senator J. William Lincoln, former Pittsburgh Steeler Franco Har­ris, Pete Flaherty, Tom Forster, and Mayor Sophie Masloff were among the
local dignitaries to speak to the crowd before Clinton arrived.Democratic Senatorial candidate
there stirring up support for Yeakel’s campaign against Republican Arlen
Specter. Yeakel talked about Specter and 12 years of Republican rule. “Twelve ” said Yeakel, yielding a cheer from the crowd.Vivian Reid, a Pittsburgh native who appeared in the musical Bub­
bling Brown Sugar, sang a song en­titled “God Bless the Children.”The crowd looked like a sea of Clinton/Gore signs and Yeakel signs, with only a few Bush/Quayle signs on the outer edges of the crowd.Clinton/Gore supporters also got quite creative with their signs. “Send ’em 
Please see CLINTON, page 7
Ignatius Sasmlta/Tartan Personnel Manager 
Voluom e87, I8sI 9eCCa 8u r8ung,8siI MCCuU8ll v8tmy
•Thisweek: Kamegeexplores * Students in campus politics
CMU in the future. on the eve of the elections.
See insert See page LI
• Loads of student writing in * Tartans football emasculates
Dossier. Grove City-
See insert See page 11
Post-Gazette company buys Press
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
On Thursday, Blade Commu­nications of Toledo, Ohio, the owners of the Pittsburgh Post- 
Gazette, announced its plans to purchase the Press Co. from Scripps. The Press Co. owns the 
The Pittsburgh Press and handles production and circulation of the 
Post-Gazette under a Joint Oper­ating Agreement (JOA).The JOA is a complicated legal document signed by the manage­ment of the papers in 1961 de­signed to protect the weaker newspaper (the Post-Gazette) while ensuring that competition would survive. Under the agree­ment, the Press Co. is respon­sible for controlling advertising
sales, printing, and circulation of both newspapers. The Post-Ga- 
zette does not own any of the items necessary to produce and distribute a newspaper.Helen Kaiser is a 14-year vet­eran of The Pittsburgh Press newsroom, and although she en­joys writing her “Ask the Press” consumer advice column, she admits that morale at the Press is not very good right now.“The mood of the editorial staff changes constantly,” says Kai­ser, “We’re sort of on a roller coaster ride right now.”At a news conference Thurs­day, Blade Chair William Block Sr. said that the company “feel(s) a great responsibility'to restore metropolitan journalism to the Pittsburgh area,” but that “there
are a lot of steps to be taken before that can happen.” Blade Communications is a privately- held corporation owned by the 
Block family.Blade will first have to hold new contract negotiations with the unions that represent Press Co. workers before November 30. Scripps has said that if that dead­line passes, it will shut the com­pany down for good. Then, the Blocks will have to obtain financ­ing necessary to purchase the 
Press. Scripps’ asking price for the Press Co. has been estimated at $95 million. Finally, the pur­chase will have to be approved by the Department of Justice to see if it violates the terms of the JOA.“All of us are pretty subdued 
Please see PRESS, page 6
...13.....6Lll..LI.....8...11 L14 LI 4

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
THIS JUST INIII
Voters face difficult choice on Tuesday
WASHINGTON October 30 (DJ) — Voters going to the polls Tuesday will choose among the known, the unknown, and the unfathomable.After four years in office, George Bush is a familiar figure to most Americans. Despite his conser­vative campaign rhetoric, he is a moderate. He instinctively rejects claims from opposite sides of the ideological spectrum that govern­ment is either the cause of, or the solution to, most of the nation’s problems.If re-elected, he can be expected to labor more on domestic policy than he did in his first term, but will still face an enormous chal­lenge dealing with an unfriendly and sometimes disrespectful Con­gress. He offers a steady hand on foreign policy, and would see to it that changes he has helped un­leash on the world stage would proceed at a measured pace.A vote for Bill Clinton, on the other hand, is a gamble. As the first Democratic president in 12 years — and the first Baby Boom president and the first one elected after the end of the Cold War — he would have a rare opportunity to define a new course for the nation, much as Ronald Reagan did in 1981, Lyndon Johnson did in 1965, and Franklin Roosevelt
didin 1933. But if he succumbs to his tendency to want to please all, he could be pushed by power­ful and competing special inter­est groups into a congressional muddle that would leave the na­tion worse off than before he started.Meanwhile, a vote for indepen­dent candidate Ross Perot is a leap into the dark. Perot talks like the ultimate pragmatist, without ideology. But events of the last few weeks have raised questions about whether he has the temperament to hold the nation’s highest office.Whoever is elected will face great uncertainty on the world stage, most notably the prospect of unrest during the coming po­litically turbulent winter in Rus­sia. At the same time, the next president is likely to preside over a better economy than that which has saddled Bush for the past four years. Low inflation, low in­terest rates, corporate stream­lining and reductions in consumer and business debt burdens have left the economy primed for a recovery some time in the next couple of years.But the real challenge for the next president will be addressing longer-term economic problems. Since 1973, the productivity of
American workers has grown at only a third of the pace of the 1950s andl960s and their aver­age earnings have been stagnant. It’s that poor performance that has led many people to question whether the steady rise in living standards that characterized the first four decades after World WarII is going to continue.Governor Clinton has propos­als to take on that task by in­creasing government spending on education, training, public infra­structure, and research.Getting a Democratic Congress to boost spending in those areas won’t be difficult. But for the pro­gram to succeed, a President Clinton also would have to dem­onstrate he has the spine to stand up to some powerful forces that have the potential to destroy his program. Whether or not he can resist them may well determine the success or failure of his presi­dency.If elected, Clinton’s first test will come within days of his inau­guration. Will he propose a tough, credible, multiyear deficit reduc­tion plan as part of the initial economic stimulus package he intends to propose? Or will he offer the goodies first and merely promise to do deficit reduction later?
Governor Clinton’s campaign proposals don’t come close to ad­dressing the deficit in a satisfac­tory way and many of the aca­demic economists who advise him say deficit reduction can be put off until future years. But budget experts in Washington say a President Clinton would only have sufficient clout to wrestle with this thorny problem in the early days of his presidency.Economists agree that some wise public investments could help address both the economy’s short-term and its long-term problems. But in order to keep his program from turning into just another congressional porkbarrel, Clinton would have to stand up to some powerful leg­islative interests—most notably Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, who has delivered a cor­nucopia of federal projects to his home state.Another hurdle for Clinton would be Representative Rich­ard Gephardt and other trade hawks in Congress. They wanted Clinton to pledge to renegotiate the North America Free Trade Agreement and he resisted them. But there would be a constant struggle of Clinton’s avowed free- trade views against forces that, among other things, want to com­
pel Japan to end its trade surplus with the U.S. or face automatic retaliation.A President Clinton would also have to face up to lawmakers from his own party who want to either raid the defense budget, or use it to finance unneeded but politically popular weapons pro­grams. Many Democrats want to cut defense spending much deeper than does Clinton.Bush is bargaining, of course, that Americans will conclude that the kind of predictable, incremen­tal change he offers is a safer bet in the new world that he has helped create in the last four years.Bush would try to revive the economy with increased tax in­centives for private investment, a cut in the capital gains tax and, perhaps, an across-the-board in­come tax cut. He pledges renewed war on government regulations. And to stimulate the economy in the short run, he promises not a Democrat-style jobs bill, but rather more rapid expenditure of his already-enacted plan to spend billions on transportation con­struction.Bush promises neither the all- out assault on the deficit that Perot advocates, nor the more laid-back deficit-cutting approach
of Clinton, but rather a continu­ing chipping away at the spend­ing imbalance.And, as much as anything else, Bush bases his vision for domes­tic and foreign policy in the next four years on a spree of free-trade agreements in Europe, Asia, and 
Latin America to match his North America Free Trade Agreement.Perot, if elected, would come in with the clearest commitment to reducing the budget deficit through higher taxes and spend­ing cuts. But whether he could get Congress to go along with his politically painful plan is far less clear. And even if he somehow succeeded in getting lawmakers to enact his plan, the net result could well be a rapid contraction of the economy — which then would antagonize lawmakers ea­ger to escape blame for that out­come.The one thing an election of Perot would do is send the most unmistakable signal in the his­tory of American politics that there must be an overhaul in the way government is run, not mere tinkering around the edges. But on the world stage, the combina­tion of the uncertainty and Perot’s rhetoric of economic nationalism would shake up friends and foes alike.Polls indicate a tight Presidential race
WASHINGTON October 30 (DJ) — Support for Ross Perot is slipping, and where it goes probably will determine whether George Bush can pull off an upset in Tuesday’s election.The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll gives Governor Bill Clinton a 44 percent to 34 percent lead over Presi­dent Bush among registered voters, with Perot at 15 percent. Among those who vote regularly, Clinton’s lead drops to six points, 43 percent to 37 percent, with 13 percent for the Texas billionaire.The poll was conducted Tuesday and Wednesday, with the only significant change between the two days being the decrease in the strength of Perot, the independent candidate.Though Perot’s share of the electorate is declining, his impact on the struggle for the White House may still be sub­stantial because the waning days of the race are, at least in part, a campaign for voters who once found allure in Perot.Right now President Bush is benefit­ing most from Perot’s descent. The presi­dent has made gains with Republicans and with independents, among whom
Bush has climbed from third place into first, taking 32 percent as opposed to Clinton’s 30 percent. But voters who now are only loosely committed to Perot’s election favor Clinton as their second choice over Bush, 53 percent to 40 per­cent, suggesting a possible advantage to the Democrat if Perot’s support erodes further.Democrat Peter Hart and Republican Vince Breglio, the pollsters who con­ducted the survey for the Journal and NBC, say that “the momentum of the trial heat favors George Bush.”But they note that “in the end, elec­tions always come back to the funda­mentals.” And they say that “the funda­mentals of this election favor Bill Clinton.”Clinton himself, in an interview, said that “I’m not all that distressed to see a tightening of the polls.” But, he added, “I need a big turnout,” especially among young voters.In reporting the Journal/NBC survey, pollsters Hart and Breglio emphasize that it may be misleading to focus solely on people who vote regularly, because
this election could also drawmany people who vote less frequently.For that rea­son, the Journal is reporting the results among both registered voters and regu­lar voters, which under the poll’s defini­tion eliminates anyone who hasn’t voted in half the elections in the past three years.The poll suggests that Bush still faces formidable challenges if he is to over­take the Arkansas governor in the campaign’s final weekend. 44 percent of voters, asked to choose among a menu of elements that would affect their presi­dential choice, selected the economy as the top factor. At the same time, Bush is rated the voters’ third choice as the can­didate who would do the best job on economic matters, winning the endorse­ment of only 21 percent of voters, com­pared with 33 percent who give the top rating to Clinton and 28 percent who choose Perot.There is no way to predict with cer­tainty whether Perot will continue to slide and, just as important, whether Perot voters slip into the Bush or Clinton columns or decide simply not to vote.
Bush touts better economy
WASHINGTON October 27 (DJ) — President Bush said the 2.7 percent growth rate for third quarter Gross Domestic Product is “very good news” that will make it “very hard for the nay-sayers and the pessimists” oppos­ing him on the basisofaweak economy.In an appearance on NBC’s Today Show, Bush said the GDP growth re­port “is about 30-some percent higher thanmostoftheestimatesanditshows that this economy is moving.”“We’ve had unemployment down for three straight months and this is very good news for the American economy to have grown like that,” Bush said. “It is four times as much as the growth that Japan had in the same period.” Referring to Democrats such as presidential rival Governer Bill Clinton who opposes Bush on grounds that he is responsible for the weak
economy, Bush said “it’s going to be very hard for the nay-sayers and the pessimists, who can only win by con­vincing people how bad things are, to refute the fact that this is very encour­aging for America.”Bush remains a long shot, according to numerous analysts, however. With only a week to go, and allowing for those states that are beyond the mar­gin of error, polls show Bush winning just four states with a total of 22 elec­toral votes.Asked to comment on the gloomy prospects for his re-election, Bush said “All I know is, there’s a sea of change in the country, and I feel it. Everybody traveling with us feels it...There’s something happening out there.” Bush also announced that he would veto a $27 billion tax bill that supports Urban Enterprise Zones.
News briefs courtesy Dow Jones, Inc.Layout by Brendan McFeely
SPRING 1993
REGISTRATION WEEK
(BASED ON SPRING 1993 CLASS STATUS)-/>
4TH/5TH YR 
SENIORS
JUNIORSSOPHOMORESFRESHMAN
(EXCEPT CIT/MCS)
ALL OTHERS
TUESDAY 
NOVEMBER 17
WEDNESDAY 
NOVEMBER 18
THURSDAY 
NOVEMBER 19
FRIDAY 
NOVEMBER 20MONDAY MONDAY
NOVEMBER 16 NOVEMBER 16
All students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) should register during Registration Week If they wish to enroll for Spring 1993. If you won't be returning 
(for reasons other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked "Spring 1993") to the Registrar's Office, 
Warner Hall 201.
All currently enrolled students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration
process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make corrections and submit the form to the Registrar's Office (if there are no changes, keep the form).
Reglstra'tlon/Add/Drop forms and the Spring 1993 Schedule of Classes will be available at the Sklbo Information Desk, outside the CFA 
Dean's Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall. CIT/MCS freshmen will receive instructions for registration from 
their dean's office.
HOWTO REGISTER
1. Pick up a Spring 1993 Schedule of Classes and a Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form.
2. Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor’s approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not 
be processed.
3. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) In which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM. 
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD. 
Remember that II you are on a "wait list" for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved).
4. Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a "pre-registration" prior to Registration Week. They'll send you instructions if necessary.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan * Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 19923
*
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE ____
Meeting of 27 October 1992
Roll Call at 7 pm.Meeting was called to order at 
7:10 pm.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Altmann (SCS), Dean (IM), DeKoss (MCS), Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS), Halvaksz (H&SS), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Kline (CIT), Knauer (H&SS), Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Martin (H&SS), Morrow (CFA), Potthast(H&SS), Rempel (M. atL.), Singh (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), Tomblyn (MCS), Wall- hauser (H&SS).
Senators Absent: None.
Minutes: Accepted by the Chair.
Special Business: None.
Ex-Officios Reports:
Activities Board (Brian Papa): AB Lecture - Stan Cloud, Washington Bureau Chief of Time “Politics, the Media and the Presi­dency”, Wednesday October 28 at 7:30 pm in the Ballroom; free. AB Concerts - The Ramones, Social Distortion and Overwhelming Colorfast; Friday, November 6 in the Ballroom, $1 with ID. AB Special Events - Virtual Reality, Thursday November 12, 11am- 11pm, $2 with ID. Films this week: Thursday October 29, Re­
pulsion at 6,8,10; Friday October 30, Homicidal at 6,13 Ghosts at 8 pm, The Tingler at 10pm; Sun­day November 1, Wrestling Women vs Aztec Mummies 6,8,10 pm,12 am.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): GSOHalloween Party Thursday Octo­ber 29 in Tilted Square from 8-1 am. Free to grad students, $4 otherwise. Entertainment by Rasta Rafika and Ploughman’s Lunch. Costume contest with prizes at 10 pm.Next GSO meeting is Wednes­day November 4 at 5:30 pm in the Tilted Square. Meeting tomor­row at 6:30 pm for committee which examines the division of Activities Fees between GSO and Student Senate.
Greek Council (Christian Bareford): Mr. Fraternity Con­test will be held October 29 in the Skibo Ballroom at 7:30 pm. Tick­ets $4 advance, $4.50 at door; sponsored by Kappa Alpha Theta. There will be an all-Greek volley­ball tournament on November 14 with the entry fees for each team going to a charity to be decided by participants. All-Greek Blood Drive will be held on December 2. The Greek Community supports the booth and buggy budget cuts.
Faculty Senate (Dean Mur-
phy): No report.
iNilEZB Student Affairs (Tim Fos- 
ter): Thanks for everyone’s help — in the International Festival, it was a success. Africa is the theme next year. Parent’s Weekend is this weekend. All appointments to the Student Advisory Commit­tee will be announced formally at the next Senate meeting.
SDC (Amy Potthast):Fara7id 
Away, Saturday at 5,7:30,10 pm, 12:30 am.
President (Natalie Ges- 
mond): Natalie has had surgery and is recovering, so Dean Anne Witchner read her report:I met with Dean Henry and devised an idea for an Alumni Networking Directory. This will be piloted by MCS and H&SS will join in soon. We also want to develop an Alumni Advisory Board which would meet with students from various depart­ments, and would work with col­lege deans.No one comes to Natalie’s office hours. She is looking for other ways to connect with the student body. There will be no office hours this week.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): Wewill get the money left over from last year’s activity fees, and that will serve as this year’s reserve. All of this semester’s Student Activities Fees will be used for fall allocation. We presently have $123,670 for allocation this year. We had $130,000 last year at this time.
Chair (Matt McGarvey): Noreport.
Old Business:There was a motion to move into committee as a whole with Greg Haverkamp as Chair and Mike Tomblyn as Secretary. Mo­tion accepted by acclamation. Moved into committee as a whole. Continuation from last week’s presentation and amendment of bylaws.Check the assocs.student-sen- ate bboard for the bylaws and changes made. Presentations will continue next week until final passage of the bylaws.Motion to move out of commit­tee as a whole accepted by accla­mation.
New Business:There was a motion to accept Michael Robe as a Member at Large from GSIA. It passed in the eyes of the Chair.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Mike 
Tomblyn): No report.
Campus Affairs (Erik Alt­
mann) : We are working on a pam­phlet on cycling, bike racks an safe riding. If you have problems with SDC, contact your area co­ordinator first.If you still have a problem, con­tact Dave O’Brian at x8420 any­time.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Budget hear­ings will be Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday.
Public Relations/ Human 
Resources (Shawn Knight): Asof yesterday we had 5 petitions submitted for Senate. We need to find out final number of petitions.
Rules: (Greg Haverkamp):There will be a meeting Thurs­day at 8 pm. Please bring any questions you have about the bylaws to that meeting so that no time is wasted at the Senate meet­ings.
Discussion:Some items discussed this week include: rules of voting, student activities fees, F&R policy and problems, abstentions in voting, Tartan editorial, and inefficiency in Senate.
Announcements:Orientation counselor applica­tions available at the Skibo info desk or Warner Hall.There will be an AIDS Sympo­sium on November 5 in Wean Hall 7500 at 7 pm.ExComm will meet Thursday at 9 pm.Tuesday is the National Elec­tion. Make sure that you get out there and VOTE!!The meeting adjourned at 11:20 pm.
[Editor’s note: there will be 
no Senate meeting on Tues­
day, November 3, due to Elec­
tion Day.]
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Correction
In last week’s story, “Senate runs low on funds/’ the funding status of the Chess Club was given incorrectly. The Chess Club receives funding from the Activities Fee,
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. Ifyou know of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Ileidi Hoover 
at x2111, or write her ill care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
SHORT & SUITE
ft
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per clay (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine tool), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCIt, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
{ÿÎuulyôidaÇ %n(L
(412) 441-44445405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232l oll Free 800*767-8*1 Hi*
SKLL FUNDRAISING CANDY LOWEST PRICES-NO RISK-TOP
{ÿÎulyôÿiiyid aÇad {iÿy{i%d n(L aOÿi......CALL FOR DETAILS & BROCHUREMcKeesport candy co 673-4406
Volunteers needed 
for study of blood
pressure. Earn $10.1
Females between 
ages 18-30 eligible.
Call 624-8994. 
University of Pittsburgh.
$10
HAIR CUTS 
EVERY DAY
CIMINI
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
i ByFRA NKNM ICHH HCELSt NTSue-621-4247
J.P. Morgan Recruits on Campus this Fall...
This is a paid advertisement.
(continuedfrom last war)
J.P. Morgan seeks under­graduates with potential tobecome part of the Morgan team that provides sophisticat­ed financial services to corpo­rations, governments, finan­cial institutions, institutional investors, nonprofit institu­tions, and wealthy individuals throughout the world.If you’re interested, watch for recruiters from J.P. Morgan who will soon con­duct information sessions on campus. Meanwhile, read on.
An overview of 
J.P. Morgan
J.P. Morgan’s business is complex, and the role we fill often crosses organizational and geographic boundaries, but broadly speaking the financial services we provide include the following:• Strategic advice: We are a leading financial advisor, counseling our clients on the financial implications of cor­porate strategy and structure and executing transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures. Morgan is especially strong on cross-bor­der transactions, taking advan­tage of our global presence and international depth.• Financing and capital raising: We are experts on raising capital for clients using all major financial instruments including equity and debt underwriting, loan syndica­tions, and private placements, in all major markets in the United States, Europe, and the Asia/Pacific region.• Trading and risk manage­ment: Our business often requires transactions in the capital markets, where stocks, bonds, and other instruments are launched and traded. Morgan is a major participant in world markets, as a market maker (matching buyers and sellers) and as a position taker (managing short- or long-term risk positions).• Securities processing and information services: We deliver a wide range of opera­tional services to our clients, handling a variety of needs from helping them track secu-
rities portfolios to managing cash on a global basis.• Asset management and private banking: Morgan pro­vides large investors - such as pension funds, insurance com­panies, and wealthy individu­
als - with sophisticated, glob­al investment management.• Research: Morgan’s busi­ness activities are supported by a strong research capabili­ty. In some cases, dedicated research units support specific
business areas, such as our Financial AdvisoryDepartment, a group of com­pany/industry specialists with­in our Corporate Finance group. In addition, the firm’s Global Research group pro­
vides a full range of macro- economic analysis and securi­ties and other financial instru­ments research.
To be continued ut an upcom­ing information session.
Do career opportunities still 
exist on Wall Street?
They do at J.P. Morgan, a world leader in global linance.
We offer exceptional career opportunities for the highly 
motivated graduate in auditing and financial management, 
corporate finance, global technology and operations, infernal 
consulting, sales, trading and research.
You don’t need an educational background in finance to 
succeed at J.P Morgan. Successful candidates will receive 
extensive on-the-job training. This training includes special­
ized programs that help develop requisite business knowledge 
and technical skills, and introduce the el hies, cull lire and 
team orientation that distinguish our firm.
Attend our upcoming information session. Watch for the time 
and location on campus. J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated,
60 Wall Street, New York, NYJ 0260-0060.
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan
JPMorgan

---------------------------------------------------

4;The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
OSIA
rank
falls
GSJA, from page 1
message,” said Sullivan.•According to Sullivan, that message has been heard. “Stu­dents should be able to say that [going to GSIAJ is the best thing I could have done to myself.”A $14 million, 55,000-square- foot addition, due to open in late November, should alleviate some complaints of crowding and large classes.“When the new building opens up, it will be cutting edge. That will make a tremendous differ­ence,” said Sullivan.Sullivan promises that GSLA will be back at the top two years from now.“We want to be the best. Stu­dents are our biggest allies,” said Sullivan.
We don’t know how to solve every problem in the community, but we know the people who do.
WHERE THERE’S A NEED, THERE’S AWAY.
THE UNITED WAY®
Thanks to you it works for all of us.
RODEF
rPbh2N
JUNIOR
CONGREGATION
? 18-35 year olds? Rodef Shalom Junior Congregation? Full member of the Rodef Shalom Congregation? Nominal membership fee for undergraduate students
? Social, religious and charitable activités offered? and much more
TCg tCgm o7MCgt8uoC7 flm8Im p8ll FC,mM rA8lCt
621-6566
u,/. y t..ì...~‘-S
ü!I
;j =< ; li/ / v\
' ¦'u1 \
Vi;!?\ Ç
>•. _ w
newsis
obtained thenecessary
schedulec 
week. If
to
you would like
to contribute to this 
project, contact Brendan 
or Kendrick at THE TARTAN 
office extension 2111.
1101LIlf mf I
w i
x. ;
f|p I if S
«¡F
SOCIAL DBTOKIKM
OVBWHaMIX COUJRFAST
COMIrtC TODAY!!! TICKETS AVAILABLE a> SKIBO lNFO DESK JUST A BUCK«SPO (¿»SORED BY AB
,—LT ICKTET SA AVBO lNFD<DFD&• .&&¿
7 pm

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 19925 *
Crimè and Incident Report
10/23 MEDICAL ESCORT,11:17 pm. A student said that while opening a tube of Krazy Glue, she looked to see if it was coming out and it squirted into her right eye. The student said that most of the glue hit her con­tact lens, but she still wanted medical attention. She was trans­ported to Eye and Ear Hospital.
10/24 FIRE ALARM, 2:57 am. Afire alarm went off in a campus apartment building. Campus Po­lice and a fire engine reported to the scene. The reporting officer spoke with a student who said that while lighting a cigarette, his robe caught fire, which caused the alarm to go off. The fire had been extinguished. The student was not injured in any way and refused medical aid or transport to a medical facility.
10/24 THEFT, 4:24 pm. Be­tween October 21 at 5 am and October 24 at 3 pm, someone en­tered the CFA 4th floor north studio and removed two 6” x 6” paintings. The student who had painted the paintings said that they were sitting on top of her locker in plain view at the time of the theft.
10/25 DISORDERLY CON­DUCT, 3:29 am. Upon entering an apartment building, a Cam­pus Police officer heard a loud argument taking place in the sec­ond floor hallway. Upon seeing the officer, the two students who were arguing, and a group of people with them, went into an apartment where a party had been taking place. The party was ended and everyone was told to leave the area. When leaving the building, the officer found that the two students who had been arguing earlier had continued their argument out in the street. Campus and City Police told them to disperse orthey Would be placed under arrest. They complied. Campus Police went back into the building to find any stray party guests and, when looking for the residents ‘of the apart­ment, found a locksmith pick set on the floor of the apartment. It was taken to 155 Baker Hall and put into evidence.
10/25 MEDICAL ESCORT,1:12 pm. A student said that while dancing at a fraternity party the night before, she had slipped on
the wet floor and hurt her wrist. She was taken to Presbyterian Hospital.
10/25 MEDICAL ESCORT,4:10 pm. A student said that while she was ironing she had acciden­tally grabbed the bottom of the iron, burning the palm and all five fingers of her left hand. She was taken to Presbyterian Emer­gency Room.
10/25 THEFT, 8:19 pm. Be­tween 8:30 pm, October 24 and 7 pm, October 25, someone entered the Margaret Morrison men’s locker room and took a student’s custom-made tuxedo. Inside one of the pockets of the tuxedo was a box that contained various pieces of jewelry and a bow tie. Also taken from the locker was the student’s vest with a matching tie and a pair of suspenders.
10/26 INSTITUTIONAL VANDALISM, 12:27 am. While on routine patrol, an officer no­ticed broken glass on the 3rd floor of Baker Hall. Further investiga­tion showed that someone had broken the glass ceiling com­memorating Andrew Carnegie. The SYLV panel of “Pennsylva­nia” was broken.
10/26 THEFT, 10:11 am. On October 17, between midnight and 5 am, a student said that someone had entered her un­locked room and taken her keys and ID while she was in the shower. The keys were for stu­dios in CFA and Doherty Hall. The student contacted Housing and they told her a letter would be sent to all the residents on her floor asking that the keys be re­turned. If the keys are not re­turned, the cost of replacing locks
will be divided among the resi­dents.
10/26 THEFT, 2:45 pm. A stu­dent said that between 8 am and 2:30 pm, someone had taken her wallet from her purse. She said that she had last used her wallet at 8 am at the Tartan Grill and checked every location she had been since then without finding the wallet. The wallet contained a CMU ID, a MAC card, and an phone card.
10/27 THEFT, 12:05 am. Astu- dent reported that someone had removed the seat and seat post of his bicycle that had been locked to the bike rack outside Wean Hall. The student also pointed out that the area where the theft had occurred was dimly lit. In the past several weeks, that bike rack has been the site of several parts thefts.
10/27 FIRE ALARM, 1:25 pm.The fire alarm for a room in Welch Hall was activated. Campus Po­lice and the Fire Department re­sponded to the scene. It was found that the resident of the room had burnt toast.
10/27 THEFT, 2:26 pm. Be­tween 1:30 pm, October 23 and 11:30 am, October 27, someone removed the television monitor mounted on a wall inside the I.T. classroom in Hunt Library. The mounting bracket that had held the monitor in place was also stolen.
10/27 THEFT, 7:10 pm. Some­time between 8:30 am and 3 pm, someone removed the rear wheel from a student’s bicycle that had been locked to the handrail out­side the Child Center entrance to
n
Tartchoice,.
• Abortion services to 17 weeks
by the regions most 
experienced provider.
• FREE pregnancy tests.
• Experienced gyne care
• Counseling
• STD & HPV screening
• Confidential, Convenient, 
Affordable to all.
Women's 
Health 
Services
Of Western Pennsylvania
562-1900Toll free 800-426-4636107 6th St.. Downtown M-Sat 6-5. Thurs. l2-9pm MC/VISA/ HMO’s/BC/BS
We zvere the first to ride zvithout training wheels.
We zvere the troop that sold the most cookies.
We zvere the state math champs.
2xz+{4y/3x;y-z'1} =.4y2/3 
DECLANC
We zvere leaders in student government.
Nozv zve're zvith Hezvitt Associates...itfs just natural.
Persistence. Determination. The relentless pursuit to be the best has made Hewitt Associates an 
international leader in employee benefits and compensation consulting services.
Why does 75% of the Fortune 500 tum to Hewitt Associates? It's because they want to work with the 
firm that is committed to being the premier team of consulting professionals working on the design, 
finance, administration and communication of their employee benefit and compensation programs. 
You're invited to explore consulting opportunities with Hewitt Associates if you have majored in:
© Applied Mathematics © Economics 
© Industrial Management © Social & Decision Sciences 
© Statistics © Mathematics
Intelligence. Ambition. A consistent desire to succeed. That's what's taken us this far. If you're ready 
to take the next step toward your professional success, come meet us:
Thursday, November 5th 
Skibo, Room 12 
7:00 pm
The next step.
Hewitt AssociatesAtlanta, CA; Bedmiratrr, NJ; Boston, MA; Cleveland, Oil; Dallas, TX; Lincolnshire, IL; Newport Beach, CA; Rowiyton. CT; Walnut Creek, CA; The Wood lands, TX
Morewood Gardens. The student said that the wheel had a quick release mounting system that makes the wheel extremely easy to remove.
10/28 ATTEMPTED VE­HICLE THEFT, 1:14 am. A stu­dent reported that, while stand­ing at the door of a fraternity, he saw a male dressed in dark clothes walk down Morewood Lane, the road behind the fraternity quad. The man doubled back, walking along the cars parked in the lane, and stopped near a Jeep belong­ing to a fraternity brother.The student then had to leave the area for a few minutes, but returned with several brothers to investigate the man. They found him sitting inside the Jeep and, since the man appeared very in­toxicated, they assumed he was looldng for a place to sleep. They told him to get out and they watched him walk down More­wood Lane to Morewood Avenue. The student then called Campus Police. The man could not be found by responding police. It was found that a hole had been cut in the plastic window of the Jeep and the steering column had been vandalized. Two knives were found on the floor of the Jeep.
10/28 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 9:04 am. A student said that she has been receiving harassing phone calls for about five weeks. Most of the time the caller waited until she answered the phone and then hung up; this happened several times a night. The student also said that the one time she did hear the caller’s voice, the caller only said, “Die!” She said that she also received a lot of silent an­swering machine messages.
Lately, the caller had started breathing heavily before ho or she hung up.The student said that she thinks the caller is a CMU stu­dent due to the way the phone rings for campus calls, and be­cause the calls stopped over mid­semester break. She was advised to keep an accurate log of when she receives the calls and to con­tact Campus Police if they con­tinue.
10/28THEFT, 10:11 am.Astu- dent reported that someone had stolen her day-old mountain bike. The bike had been locked to the GSIA rack with a “U” lock.
10/28 THEFT, 11:30 am. The up-hill handle bar extension was removed from a student’s moun­tain bike that was locked to the CFA bike rack.
10/28 MEDICAL CALL, 8:38 pm. A student called Campus Police to report that she had found an unconscious student on the 3rd floor of Donner Hall. The un­conscious student had received a blow to the head during football practice. After returning to his room, he began feeling dizzy and seeing blue spots. CMU EMS re­sponded to the call, examined the student, and suggested that lie be transported to a hospital for treatment. The studont was placed on a spine board with a collar. Ho was transportSd to Shadysido Hospital.
10/28 GUN CALL, 9:50 PM. City Police dispatched police to Fifth and Morewood Avenues to check for a man on crutches who was showing a gun to passers-by. City units and a CMU officer re­sponded to the area. A person
fitting the description was enter-~ ing Mudge House and was identi-'; fied as a student. Tho student had no gun on his porson or in his;, backpack.
10/30 PUBLIC INTOXICA-" TION, 1:10 AM. Campus Police1'' were contacted by the Pittsburgh' i. Police stating that they were hold­ing a CMU student. Upon ar- " rival, it was determined that the1" student was under the influence:;1 of alcohol. A check was made to 1 determine his residence and whether or not he had a room-..) mate to care for him. After it was’ I found that there was no one at hisuj residence, City Police gave him> the option of spending the night in the city lock-up or going to;" Shadyside Hospital for treatj ” ment. The student opted to go to.: the hospital. His bicycle wai taken to 155 Baker Hall for safe'-i.. keeping. .
Compiled by" KEEGAN FOLK
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi¦ 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, ami 
the staffwriter typing the report.• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, and suspects 
and fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con­
text of a complete descriptions.• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Murray Street Cafe
Great WINGS...Great BÜRGERS...Great SALADS...Great STEAKS...
Just A Great Place To Hang out!
Great Nightly Specials
MONDAY 6oz. Burger— Fries only $2.99
TUESDAY Winng Night — 1Ple wings all night long 
plus Import Beer specials 9 'til 11 pm
WEDNESDAY Steak Night — 12oz. NY Strip, Potato Salad 
ONLY $10.95 
THURSDAY Mexican Specials All Day Long!
THIS COUPON 
GOOD FOR AN 
ORDER OF BUFFALO 
WINGS FOR ONLY $1.00
Please present coupon 
when ordering 
Limit one coupon per 
person per visit
Expires 11/30/92
BUY ANY 
SANDWICH, SALAD, 
OR ENTREE AT THE 
REGULAR PRICE 
AND RECEIVE THE 
SECOND FOR 
HALF PRICE
Expires 11/30/92
1720 MURRAY AVENUE 521-1272
Kitchen Open daily 11 am ‘til 12:30 pm; Weekends ‘til 1 am

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
Pittsburgh daily news stili on holdThieves burglarize CFA studios
PRESS, from page 1and concerned not only about our future but the future of the Press," Kaiser said on Friday.Publication of the Press and the separately owned Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette was suspended on May 17 when delivery drivers for the Pittsburgh Press Co., repre­sented by the Teamsters, walked off the job over a breakdown in 1 contract negotiations. The Press Co. wanted to eliminate 450 of 605 union jobs by putting a new distribution system in place.The strike is the longest in Pitts­burgh newspaper history. The Press Co. is owned by the E.W. Scripps Co. of Cincinnati. Local media observers were shocked last month by Scripps announce­ment that it plans to sell the paper.Bill Deibler, managing editor of the Post-Gazette, said that the mood there is better than at any time since the strike began.“We here at the Post-Gazette are very optimistic,” Deibler said, “but we’re not out of the woods yet. The owners of the paper have a major battle ahead of them try­
ing to negotiate with the unions.”Eric Devereux, an assistant professor of political science and public policy at the Heinz School, said that the chances of Pitts­burgh remaining a two-newspa- per town are very slim.“Throughout history, every time one newspaper has pur­chased a competing newspaper, the result has been that one of them has been shut down,” Devereux said. “The long-term trend has been for every city to have only one newspaper.“Even the Scripps Co. was dis­satisfied with the profitability of thePress’operation. The econom­ics of the situation are such that [Blade Communications] would make money by operating both papers, but not as much,” said Devereux. “Increasingly, the newspaper induBt)7isdominated by the profit motive. It’s not about just making money, but maxi­mizing your profit.”Devereux believes the distri­bution problem is a major ob­stacle to be overcome. “It’s hard to distribute anything in Pitts­burgh,” ho said, “and Pittsburgh is one of the few cities still using the antiquated system of deliv­ery that it does.” The distribu­tion problem was another reason that the Post-Gazette might sur- vivo instead of the Press, he said, because it's easier to deliver a morning paper than nn evening paper. Tho circulation of the evening paper is significantly larger than that of the morning paper, but this is not the case in
most major cities.The Justice Department might block the sale of the Press Co. to the Blocks on the grounds that it violates anti-trust laws, but Deibler believes that is highly unlikely.“The number one obstacle I see will be reaching an agreement with the unions,” said Deibler, “but I’m highly optimistic. The unions have been been sending out signals for weeks that they would welcome the opportunity to talk with the Blocks, [who] have an excellent history of labor negotiations.”'The unions have been saying all along that they wanted to do business with the Blocks. I don’t know why,” said Madelyn Ross, the managing editor of the Press. “They’ve never done business with the Blocks before ... and it seems to me that if you only have one newspaper to deliver, you need fewer newspaper deliver­ers.” She added that she “hasn’t understood anything that the unions have done.”“My personal opinion is that the Block family will shut [the 
Press] down. That would be a shame,” Ross said. “We were for­tunate to have two competing newspapers in this town. When you have two competing papers, you have the town well-covered. It seems pretty obvious that they won’t need two newspaper staffs, and a lot of excellent people will be going elsewhere, and that’s a shame.“We spent the last 10 years putting together what is prob­ably one of the best newspaper staffs in the country,” Ross said. The Press has won two Pulitzer Prizes for journalism. Block said at the news conference that the 
Post-Gazette will definitely be hiring editorial staffers from the 
Press. Some sources estimate that between 50 and 75 Press staffers would join the new operation.Long-time Post-Gazette colum­nist Peter Leo called the situa­tion a real “reversal of fortunes.“We at the Post-Gazette are quite happy that the Block fam­ily has stepped in,” Leo said, “be­cause the JOA was about to ex­pire at the end of the century and it’s likely that the Post-Gazette would have been out ofbusiness.”"We're basically 140 journal­ists and a nameplate,” Leo said. “We’re tenants. Before, we were just along for the ride. Everyone assumed that we were the weak sister in the partnership.... We couldn't negotiate with the unions, we were just held hos­tage.”Deibler agreed that the eco­nomics of the situation probably
dictated Pittsburgh becoming a one newspaper town. However, in his opinion “the best of all possible solutions would be that both papers would continue oper­ating.“I think that it has occurred to everyone that this is the last op­portunity to save the newspapers in this town,” Deibler said. “If this goes down the drain, you’re not talking about losing 200 jobs [atthePress], you’re talking about 1,200 jobs and possibly leaving Pittsburgh without any newspa­pers.”As the strike dragged on, the members of the editorial staff at thePress mounteda petition drive to express their support for the continued publication ofthe city’s two dailies. Their campaign was called Save the PresB, and they have collected approximately 15,000 signatures of area resi­dents concerned for the future of the papers.“The [Save The Press cam­paign] is not a management thing, or a union thing,” said Kaiser, one of the leaders of the group. “We just want to give the commu­
nity a chance to say what the newspapers mean to them.”According to Kaiser, the move­ment was designed to make the Press Co. more attractive to pro­spective buyers. “We wantto show that the community cares about the paper, and that the staff is dedicated to it.”Kaiser said that the newspa­pers provide an invaluable ser­vice to western Pennsylvania resi­dents. “The strike has proved to be a majorinconvenience. People miss the analytical background that the newspapers provide,” says Kaiser. “I think that the papers serve as part of a well- rounded information service to the community... when you need to know the depth of the issues, you will turn to the newspaper.“I think that the Save the Press committee cannot help but feel positive about the fact that a newspaper voice is coming back,” Kaiser said. “So our campaign was realized in that regard. But everyone here is pretty down­hearted [about the future of the Press].” Save the Press activities are on hold for the time being, but Kaiser said that if anyone still had petitions circulating that they were welcome to send them in.Deibler said it might be a while before Pittsburgh gets its dailies back.“It’s going to be a long battle getting back into business after five or six months,” he said. “It is very unlikely that we will be able to resume publication before January 1.”
CFA, from page 1
Campus Police often failB to secure the doors at those times, according to some students.Junior art major Sherri Johnson thinks that security should be tightened.“I have never found the doors locked at any time,” said Johnson.Christine Cocca, a senior art megor, suggests patrols be in­creased.“In three years that I’ve had a studio in Doherty, I’ve never seen Campus Police in the
halls,” she said.Campus Police declined to comment.Even though seniors and students taking advanced courses are eligible for studio space, some students opt not to accept a studio, preferring to work elsewhere instead.Faye Levine, a senior illus­
tration mtyor, said, “I didn’t want a studio space, even though I was entitled to one this year. When I was a sophomore, my classmate had her drawing damaged and the roll of paper it was attached to stolen. The same year my friend had his studio vandalized by other art students. What kind of work­ing environment is that?”
Document
Matching
Be sure to report all your income 
to IRS. It receives copies of state­
ments from your employer, 
banks, and similar 
¦— .oUT'^ institutions /" , - -~> to verify^1^ ’LXrL, ' the income 
c. {mirs/’e J you report.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
Air Force ROTC Units 
Filled to Capacity 
NOT!
Don’t believe everything you hear. The Air Force continues to seek outstanding students to fill future officer requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully developed qualities of character and managerial ability. Notice, too, the opportunities. Like eligibility for scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic month.
Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourself and your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? Now make a call!
268-8747 
AIM HIGH-AIR FORCE
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon .students interested in
Global Technology and Operations 
Sales. Trading, and Research
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
Monday, Xorember 23 
Skibo Hall, I loom 13 
6:30 pm
All majors welcome
JP Morgan
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer
Present your School I.D. and 
receive 15% off all purchases.
(All students, faculity and employees eligible.)
dkrG2ScF wPc dkTTcFc.Gc bw Dxrw •cwkwcr
rn7,8s 1R3( B NC7yE Om,yE Tgoy L r8uy 1)3YWH) B wnmIyLwAngy 1)30
6318 Forbes Ave. • Squirrel Hill, PA 15217 • 421-8900
PETITES...
PITTSBURGH'S
McUGHUc IOWTHRS 
tuRcU 
IRc
dRGUS en aSi sSiUc
• Dresses• Sportswear• Suits ® Coats• Accessories

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 19927
Senate enacts new booth, buggy rules
SENATE, from page 1
Constitution Committee has decided, so we did it in a way that wouldn’t have much of an impact on independent organizations.” Senator Michael Tomblyn (MCS) also favored the first proposal. “I feel that the Student Activities Fee can be put into much better use and fund a greater number of
independent organizations agree that the change in the fiscal policy is very minor in terms of booth and buggy funding. “As it stands, I really don’t think a significant burden is being placed on orga­nizations,” says Jay Laefer, student body trea­surer.
Toscano of FRINGE agrees that the new fiscalgroups and quality activities that will benefit the policy “is not going to make a major difference entire campus rather than 20 students in one Welding of Pioneers says, “It’s unfortunate but we organization getting $6,000 to build and maintain could have gotten a worse end of the deal. I’m glad particular booth or buggy.” Larry Toscano, chair that the outcome of buggy happened the way it of FRINGE, adds that the proposal will not make did.”_ HifTorpnPii “Tf irnn Vioi4-nnV.a major difference. “If you don’t have a'new tech­nology, you don’t build, [and] if you’re building every four years, you’re actually paying less to build.”The second proposal made about booth and buggy during the Senate meeting was to lower the per­centage that independent organizations had to pay for the cost of buggy. The proposed by­laws stated that organi­zations must provide at least 50 per­cent ofabug- fgy’s cost from non-subsidyincome. The proposal restored the amount to the percentage in the current fiscal policy — 33 per­cent. The amendment passed by a close vote of 9- 8-4. Tomblyn, who voted against the new proposal, says that the reason some Senators voted for the proposal was that they thought funds had already been taken care of by the first amendment.“I didn’t think that went far enough,” says Tomblyn. “I’d like to see a time where indepen­dents can actually be independent and that they don’t have to rely on Senate. A lot of people thought that hitting them with both [amendments] would be too severe in too short of time, and that’s why the proposed bylaw failed.” Loomis, who abstained from voting, says that independent organizations
Concerning the new fiscal policy, Haverkamp says, “I think it will require more fundraising, but we’re more than likely to pass a provision ... to allow groups to keep anything that they earn.” According to Haverkamp, Student Senate’s pro­posed bylaws are expected to be voted upon on Tuesday, November 24.Altmann says that the bylaws are an im­provement. “In the past, there were separate documents________________________________________ for the Con-stitutionand the fiscal policy. Then, the first thing Student Senate did was have a Constitution, Senate By­laws, and the fiscal policy, and it was unclear why the division was made between the Constitution and the bylaws. So now, we have them all in one document, so they can go out in packets to the organizations. That enabled getting a lot of the redundant stuff out.”Loomis agrees that “as a whole, the bylaws are really good.” However, in response to the entire booth and buggy issue, Tomblyn says, “Enrollment is dropping across the nation, and it’s dropping at CMU. It’s either becoming a little more fiscally responsible or raising the Student Activities Fee." Welding says that Student Senate is “a wasteful
“One of the things that bothers me 
about booth is the amount of waste, 
and that’s why I strongly supported the 
reduction of funds by Student Senate.” 
— Senator Erik Altmann (SCS)
iireally can’t afford to pay more than one-third of organization.” He says, “I wish that they couldi
their buggy. “I favor keeping the percentages the control their spending in other ways.” same, because what we had already done is we have effectively reduced the amount of funding last year.”Booth funding was the subject of the third pro- ' posal made during the Senate meeting. The pro­posal lowered the percentage of booth funding by independent organizations from 50 percent to 33 percent, thus making Student Senate contribute two-thirds, instead of one-half, of their booth fund­ing. This amendment did not pass, with a final vote of 5-11-3. Tomblyn also voted against this pro­posal, saying that Senate is “throwing a lot of money into [booth] that benefits directly only a small amount of people.” Senator Erik Altmann (SCS), who also voted against the proposal, says,“One of the things that bothers me about booth is the amount of waste and that’s why I strongly supported the reduction of funds by Student Sen­ate.” However, Paul Welding, the president of Pio­neers, was angered by the booth cuts. “We don’t ask for that much money, but now, we are going to have to twist arms to get funding.”Overall, both Senators and representatives from
New bylaws applied to booth and buggy
Article VI.
Student Senate Fiscal Policy
F. Buggy
1. A recognized student organization 
must provide seventy-five (75) percent of its 
buggy maintenance budget each year from non­
subsidy income.
2. Student Senate will only consider 
funding a buggy for a recognized student organi­
zation once every four (4) years. These organiza­
tions must provide, at that time, at least thirty- 
three (33) percent of the cost of the buggy from 
non-subsidy income.
G. A recognized student organization must 
provide fifty (50) percent of its booth-building 
budget each year from non-subsidy income.
EXPERIENCE A 3D 
COMPUTER-GENERATED 
I WORLD...
IRTUALREALITY
NOVEMBER 12th
Wherret Room 
Skibo Hall 
Uam-llpm
Clinton draws downtown crowd
CLINTON, from pngo 1
packin’ back to Texas,"' “You can’t veto this Bill,” “I love Ozone Man," “Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual people belong to families just like yours,” “Bush is the past. Clinton is the fu­ture,” and “Read my lips. No more Bush” were among some of the signs at the rally.Clinton shared the stage with a sign language interpreter. Speaking on the major themes familiar from his months of cam­paigning, he covered topics in­cluding his national service pro­posal that would allow people who want to go to college to obtain the money to do so in exchange for two years of do­mestic service after graduation, and his plans to increase the number of American jobs.
Ho took tho time to address tho concerns of tho USAir em­ployees in the crowd, explain­ing that he did not wholeheart­edly support, the USAir/British Airways merger as it presently stands, because he wants to obtain the same kind of access to British markets for Ameri­can companies that British com­panies have to American mar­kets.Clinton called putting the American people first and re­building the middle class the goals of his administration. His statement, “I'll make mistakes ’cause I’ll get up every day and do something," brought a loud roar from the crowd. Clinton also addressed the name-call­ing and mud-slinging coming from the Bush campaign.
Responding to Bush charac­terizing Clinton and his run­ning mato A1 Gore as “bozos,” Clinton said, “Bozos make people laugh. Bush makes people cry. People are going to be laughing on Tuesday.”He expressed outrage that the • Bush administration was inves­tigating his mother's passport files, describing three men in expensive suits searching through dusty passport files af­ter hours, saying, “That’s the only time they’ve worked till 10 o'clock in their lives.”Wofford said, “WhenI put John Kennedy on the plane 30 years ago, I got this tingly feeling in my spine, knowing that the next time I’d see him he would be the President-Elect. I’ve got that same feeling about Bill Clinton."
University construction continues
By MIKE WALKER
Tartan Staffwriter
According to President Meh- rabian’s October 8 state of the University address, there are currently between $105 million and $110 million worth of capital projects in varying stages of completion either on the CMU campus or CMU-related.In the latest GSIA Building Addition Design and Construc­tion Update, it was reported that the addition to and renovation of the GSIA building will be com­pleted early next year, both on its budget of $13.7 million and on time. Most features of the addi­tion are more than 75 percent completed.Mehrabian reported in his ad­dress that CMU has committed
to build, through state funding, the $16 million Pittsburgh Tech­nology Center.Completion of the Center will allow for a relief from overcrowd­ing of departments including MCS, CMRI, Supercomputing, Technology Transfer, and Exten­sive Educational Programs.Renovations to tho Naval Build­ing, costing $2.5 to $‘2.6 million, are required because new space is going to be needed for displaced activities and organizations dur­ing the construction of the new University Center.All plans are complete and bids are now being taken for the new $40 million University Center. Phase one of the construction, which includes the relocation of the tennis courts, is set to begin November 9.
The beginning of phase two, which includes the transferal of student organizations to the Na­val Building, is dependent upon numerous fundraising issuos coming into placo on schedulo.There are a number of planned projects which have not boon be­gun duo to a lack of funding.Among thoso aro plans for nn Electronic Materials Technology building, for which $10.0 million of an estimatod $15 million has boon raised; plans for an Art Con- tor, for which $5 million of tho $18 million prico has boon raised; and $8 million worth of desper­ately needed renovations and up­grading for tho chomistry lab, where $1 million has already boon raised but $1.5 million more will be needed to begin the first phase of renovation.
The University of Pittsburgh 
(School of Medicine 
Graduate Programs
present a
DEÔEADCH OPEN 
HOUSE
Learn about opportunities for: 
Graduate (Studies 
Undergraduate (Summer Research 
Post-degree Employment Opportunities
Departmental Tours Will Originate From: 
(Scaiffe Hall Lecture Room 3 
l:OOpm - 5:OOpm 
(Saturday, November 7, 1992
For more information contact: 
(School of Medicine 
Graduate (Studies Office 
(412) 648-8957
••TICKETS GO ON SALE MON NOV. 2*» 
••NOONTIME AT THE CLOCK* •
maximum of two per c.m.u. i.d.
---------------------------------------------------- $2.00 ----------------------------------------------------
tickets must be bought in 
ADVANCE
All are welcome to watch the action on the large screen monitor! Sponsored by AB Special Events, andfunded by your Student Activities Fee j

---------------------------------------------------

Letters to the Editor
YOU'RE?
¿URE*,
POSXTIVE,GOAHEAffg 
flOYS. F/RElS 
l AWAYim
xV/ISHT-THEY WOOL D AsNdSa’nt
PAH5EV
wars
We want a practical 
University Center
For the past 10 years, the ad-
¦ ministration and the University 
Board of Trustees have prom­
ised us a University Center. 
Skibo has been scheduled and 
rescheduled for demolition. Now 
the word is that work on the 
tennis courts will definitely start 
next week. We’ve heard this be­
fore, and we hope it’s really go­
ing to happen this time.
What it comes down to is this: 
We want a University Center. 
The reason it’s been delayed so 
many times is that gifts have not 
come through to fund the project. 
The University has planned a 
$40 million building. This is ex­
cessive, and the design is for a 
building that will not meet stu­
dents’ needs.
For the same amount of money 
or less, we could have a building 
that’s better than Skibo without 
unnecessary perks. For example, 
the University Center design 
includes athletic facilities that 
belong in the gym, not the stu­
dent union building. Overhaul 
the gym and put a better pool, 
the indoor track, and racquet- 
ball courts there.
We do need other types of fa­
cilities in the University Center 
to serve the needs of the campus 
community — facilities that ei­
ther aren’t included or aren’t
ter design. The current design 
allows for about the same amount 
of meeting space as is available 
in Skibo. Any member of a stu­
dent organization who has tried 
to reserve a meeting room and 
found none available knows this 
is inadequate. We need lockers 
so off-campus students have a 
place to store books, backpacks, 
as well. Student organizations 
need permanent, secure office 
and storage space in a building 
that’s open 24 hours every day so 
organization members can come 
and go as they need to without 
worrying about theft or vandal­
ism.
We’d like to see Entropy ex­
panded to offer a wider selection 
of food and household goods, as 
well as newspapers and maga­
zines. The bookstore and the Post 
Office should be moved from 
Baker Hall to the University 
Center, so they’ll be centrally 
located.
An auditorium, a quiet study 
lounge (where there are no ar­
cade games within hearing), and 
an improved ballroom are in­
cluded in the design of the Uni­
versity Center, and that’s great. 
Unfortunately, there are mis­
placed facilities included in the 
design also. Redesign it so it gives 
us what we need without being
sufficient in the University Cen- exorbitant.Vote tomorrow 
time to make a choice
Tomorrow is November 3, the 
day all Americans who are regis­
tered to vote go to the ballot box 
and make their voices heard, 
demonstrating their support for 
the person they think will run 
their country in the best possible 
way.
In theory.
: The fact that voter turn-out for 
any given election is so damna­
bly low can shake any person’s 
faith in democracy and the 
American form of government. 
When power and decision-malt- 
ing is entrusted to the citizenry 
rather than the elite, those citi­
zens have a responsibility to tell 
the government what is working 
and what is not. That power is 
embodied in the vote.
When you cast your vote for an 
incumbent office holder, you com­
municate your satisfaction with 
that person’s policies, ideas, and 
actions in that office. You do not 
think the challenger could do 
the job better, and you would be 
happy with the incumbent in his 
or her position of power for an­
other term.
When you cast your vote for a 
person other than the incum­
bent, you are expressing your 
dissatisfaction with current poli­
cies, ideas, and actions in the 
contested public office. You think 
this challenger could do the job 
better than the incumbent has 
done the job, and you think you 
would be happier with the chal­
lenger, with whose potential poli­
cies you agree, in office.
When you do not cast a vote, it 
means you hold no opinion and 
no preference for either side. You 
do not care that the people in 
power can shape your standard 
of living, your representation, 
and your taxation.
Change must be for good, 
not just for its own sake
Letter to the Editor
You do not care that the people 
in power can indiscriminately 
take away your job or your edu­
cation on a misinformed whim. 
You do not care that the people 
in power can sell their power, 
curry favor to special interests, 
or make illicit money in other 
ways because of their position. 
You do not care that people in 
power can abuse that power if 
they are not checked by those 
who elect them.
When you do not vote, you have 
no right to complain when the 
person in power enacts laws or 
policies that hurt you or the way 
you live. When you give up your 
vote it means that you also give 
up your hold on power in the 
country as a whole. When you 
forfeit your right to vote it means 
that you are not represented, and 
that you willingly subject your­
self to the whims, desires, and 
decisions of a small group of 
people who may not know or care 
about problems in your state, 
community, or home. When you 
abandon the right to vote, you 
lose any and all influence on the 
events and decisions that govern 
your country.
Arguments against voting, like 
the futility of the electoral col­
lege, the immensity of the popu­
lation, or the fact that America is 
a republic and not a democracy 
don’t hold any water. If you ex­
amine the elections of Kennedy 
and Nixon, you see that in each 
voting precinct, only a few thou­
sand votes made the difference 
in how that precinct reported its 
vote as a whole to the state, and 
then to the nation. The above 
arguments do not invalidate the 
importance of every single vote, 
they only hide it.
Go vote tomorrow.
Editor:Americans are fed up, and we are not going to take it any­more. The govern­ment cannot or will not do anything about the dire problems of the nation. We need a change. How many campaign platforms of the 1992 election have been built around the theme “time for a change?” Each of the three major candidates—evenBushthe incumbent — played on this idea to some extent, some more than others. When everyone starts talking about the same thing, the original point tends to get distorted; so, what brought us to this need for something different, and will a set of all-new ideas really make our problems solvable?We decided we need a change, but what kind of change? New political catch phrases echoed throughout the recent debates: Bush looks forward to “the new House,” while Perot prefers the more general “cleaning house” versus “slow dancing with the issues.” These terms do not necessarily spell out the guide­lines for a change maker. What do dis­satisfied voters want in a candidate? Certainly not political experience. Any­one, they say, who has worked in a governmental position is either a con­tributor to, or a product of the system, and we certainly cannot have that. But our candidate, they continue, has to know how to get things done. This person has to do what is necessary to get the coun­try revitalized, and this person must please the populace while achieving these goals. This person must have new ideas but also hold specific opinions on certain key issues. Why don’t we ever have any candidates like that?Our responsibility as voters is to con­sider, reasonably, the choices before us. We cannot go to the polls or fill out our ballots with the mentality that choosing the lesser of two or three or fifteen evils is going to produce some idealistic politi­cal upswing, just as we cannot expect a single candidate to encompass all of our prerequisites. Now that the nation is relearning the importance of the vote; we cannot allow our power of dissatis­faction to overshadow what is good for the country as a whole. Even if we are fed up we cannot afford to lose our heads.
Todd Camill 
Freshman, CIT
Clinton simply doesn’t 
have ideas or experience
Letter to the Editor
Editor:Why does Clinton deserve my vote? Let me point out what Clinton did for Arkan­sas. Economically, Ar­kansas is 50th in average hourly earn­ings for production workers, 48th in dis­posable income, and 47th in per capita income. Since investing in Arkansas didn’t work, why would it work for America? On education, Arkansas ranks 50th in college graduation rates and 49th in high school graduation rates. What has Clinton actually done for edu­cation? On the environment, Arkansas
The Institute for Southern Studies, The Green Index, 50th in governmental ac­tion to protect the environment, 41st in per capita ozone depleting emissions, and 41st in clean rivers and streams.So what is it that people like about Governor Clinton? Maybe it’s the fact that he’s balanced a budget. In Arkan­sas exists a balanced budget amend­ment. Good idea, right? Bush proposed a balanced budget amendment. The demo- cratically-controlled Congress vetoed this measure. It seems Congress likes to spend our money with no limits. Accord­ing to Paul Harvey, Gore, in all his days in the Senate, has never voted against a spending increase!So what has Bush done? On economic growth, Bush, in ’89, asked Congress to lower the capital gains tax in order to stimulate investment. In January ’92, he again asked for a lower capital gains tax plus incentives to small businesses to create jobs and provide a $5000 tax credit to the middle class buying their first home. Congress did nothing good for three years. What did Congress do? They raised taxes on small businesses and offered a tax cut to the middle class. Did Congress finally do something right? Well, if you consider a 55 cent per day tax break a good way to help the economy, then I guess they did.Do you want Bill Clinton to do for America what he couldn’t even do for his own small state? Before voting, keep in mind who has the better ideas, who has the proper experience, and whom do you trust.
Rob Evans
Junior, Mechanical Engineering
Student calls for votes for 
Bush, not ‘Slick Willie’
Letter to the Editor
Editor:As election day draws near, I would like to make a request for votes for President George Bush and votes against “Slick Willie.”I admit, Bush has made some mis­takes in his governing of our beloved country, but nowhere as bad as the ma­jor media and the liberal weirdos out there would have you believe. Bush has presided over our nation with dedica­tion and good will, attempting to guide the world into the next century with a strong hand and a clear vision of what the future should hold. He has stood up for the American dream by keeping those tax and spend Democrats away from the taxpayers’ pocketbook, save the Budget Deal of1990. (Bush even recognized this mistake of giving in to the irresponsible Democratic Congress and apologized for it.) On the other hand, “Slick Willie” loves taxes so much he could slap a tax on a galloping horse. Quite a remark­able feat I must admit but not uncom­mon for a Democratic presidential as­pirant. (I believe their party has a lit­mus test on this issue.)Bush has been a world leader in a vast number of issues. He’s stood up to un­provoked aggression by Saddam Hussein, he’s fought for the lowering of agricultural subsidies in the current GATT negotiations, and he’s helped ac­complish the unbelievable — the fall of the Soviet Empire. The only time “Slickconsistently ranks lowest according to Willie” has ever set foot on foreign soil
was to smoke some wacky * protest li­the election of “Slick Willie” our world respect will ccrease and with “Slick ___helm, the President of the U.S. longer be the world’s leader *• today. (Even more than that, i that if “Slick Willie” wins, we paying taxes through the nose _ turn me on either.)Thé 1992 election should properly. titled, “Slick Willie’s campaign of saying anything he can to get elected.” Let’s not elect a pathological liar with a terrible record on the issues of character and trust, or a person who has absolutelyno involvement in foreign affairs.Please vote for a man who has pro^gR his ability to be a world leader, and ^ a man who will only follow the evjfty whim of a tax and spend, and sock it,to the middle class democratic congress,,,
Patrick J. Mooney W ôEÎ
Junior, SDS
Cinton offers the better 
plan, Bush lacks ideas
Editor:As you know, the United States is suf­
fering right now. Mil- Letter lions of people are out of work, our cities are falling apart, race relations are break­ing down, our natural environment'is being permanently damaged, and tM gap between the haves and have-notà is wider than ever. George Bush and Dai Quayle have failed to provide the leaded ship that our country is time of domestic need.Bill Clinton is a leader with a proven track record as a government reformer! His economic strategy, called “Puttbfê People First,” has won him the endprafo ment of over 500 CEO’s, 500 economists (includinglO Nobel Laureates), .anil scores of independents and Republicans. Even the author of Ross Perot’s boak endorsed Clinton! -¡oiBefore you vote, get the facts. Clinto^ plan calls for targeting government.^ private sector investments towards high- technology (e.g. civilian DARPA fo&rft search funding), education (e.g. theNa? tional Service Trust Fund guaranteeing college loans), and infrastructure electronic superhighway, high-speed rail). These investments are not only* good idea, but a necessary idea for_gejg erating high-paying, high-skill, high- tech jobs which will keep people likfii$ employed, for decades to come. n ton On issues other than the economy! Bill Clinton also offers the better plan« Clinton is strongly pro-choice, whereas Bush has called for abortions to-be criminalized, even in cases of rape a$l incest! On the environment, while M Quayle has trashed environmental regu­lations from his “Council Competiveness,” A1 Gore has been.tb® leading voice for environmental protect tion in the U.S. Senate.A final reason to vote for ClintonXîof? is that the Republicans are entrenched in power, having occupied the Oval.fii? fice for 20 of the last 24 years. The^ffl out of ideas, out of steam, and so despeft ate to retain the office that theyVe t^ sorted to outright lying about their op- 
Please see LETTERS, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 19929
Bush administration restricts legal procedures
Abby Schiff
I The question of abortion is a ^engitive one, an issue over which nation finds itself increas­
ingly polarized. Yet the flood of 'controversy over whether abor­tion. is right or wrong has con­vinced many Americans, myself included, that any attempt to re­solve the issue through debate is hopeless. It is a circular argu­ment. Neither side can prove its j:ase, and even as a pro-choice Advocate, I will resist the temp­tation to try. Instead, I’d like to focus on the Bush administra­tion’s record of imposing restric­tions on choice and on abortion- related issues, for this record may prove even more important than 'abortion issue itself.
\ First, the facts: abortion is le- ^¿Hn the United States. WhetherE
usla likes it or not, abortion has een a legal option throughout his Presidency. Thousands of jggmen have exercised this right Jtarmg each of his four years in 
pffic.e—meaning, for better or for Bfifcge, that a lot of abortion pro­cedures have been performed despite vocal opposition. In the Face of these facts, Bush, pro-life for "the moment, has had to make an important choice: restrict the stapgly of abortions or reduce de- litand for them.'"’It"isn’t too difficult a task to pinpoint the direction Bush chose. A°f£w notable examples of the Bush-Quayle legacy are: the “gag rule,” which forbids doctors at federally-funded clinics from even mentioning abortion as an option for1 their patients; a ban on re- nh using fetal tissue from Abortions; and support for a Su- pFeMe Court ruling that allows states to impose waiting periods findparental notification/consent restrictions on women seeking abortions. The Bush-Quayle pat­tern thus reveals to us two things: first; Bush considers women’s rights a low priority; and second, his administration suffers from an utter lack of respect for all
The gag rule is perhaps the most alarming example of Bush’s indifference to women’s rights. Although abortion remains a le­gal option in America, poor women who go to federally-funded clinics wouldn’t know that be­cause their doctors aren’t allowed to tell them about it. This means that poor women don’t have the same rights — or as many op­tions — as women who can afford the luxury of paying for a private gynecologist. The fact is, abor­tion is a lawful option; forbidding doctors from telling their patients the truth simply because certain people object to it is indefensible. Ignoring tjie law of the land and telling doctors what they can and can’t say also poses a severe threat to the quality of women’s health care; the last time I checked, nei­ther Bush nor Quayle had a de­gree in medicine.The Bush-Quayle administra­tion clearly places a higher prior­ity on restricting abortion than it does on women’s access to quality health care, and it doesn’t think much of a woman’s ability to make her own decision in regard to which legal medical procedure she will undergo. Regardless of one’s stance on the issue of abortion, this is cause for alarm. Consider­ing the grave dangers it poses to women’s access to non-politicized health care, there is absolutely no justification for the gag rule as long as abortion is a safe and legal medical procedure.Bush’s stance against fetal tis­sue research is also disturbing. Few people are pleased about the high number of abortions per­formed in the United States, but at least some good might emerge from it: use of fetal tissue has shown promising results in the treatment of Alzheimer’s, Park­inson’s, and a host of other dis­eases that' claim thousands of lives each year. But Bush firmly opposes using fetal tissue from abortions for research, claiming that women will be more likely to opt for an abortion if they know it might help save the life of a Parkinson’s victim. Instead, Bush supports research on fetal tissue from miscarriages and ectopic
pregnancies for disease treatment — even though most scientists insist that it is usually worthless for this purpose.If Bush really believes that women will get more abortions if fetal tissue is used to save lives, he has a lot to learn about women’s intelligence and strength of morality. First of all, getting an abortion is not a frivo-
own.Apparently, Bush and Quayle think abortion is some kind of spur-of-the-moment decision, complete with “Buy One Get One Free” promotions and high-pres- sure sales tactics. If only they would realize that it is anything but the walk-in appointment op­eration they make it out to be, they might realize that women
Men and women everywhere must 
realize that no matter how righteous 
the motive, the intentional undermining 
of women’s access to a legal procedure 
is wrong.
lous choice for any woman. A lot of careful thought and soul- searching is involved with a de­cision as serious as this one. The reason behind a woman’s deci­sion to choose abortion is, first and last, that she does not want to continue the pregnancy—end of story.In response to Bush’s implicit assertion that the lifesaving ca­pacity of aborted fetuses will in­fluence women who would other­wise continue with the preg­nancy, I contend that a woman with an unwanted pregnancy is at least as virtuous as anyone else, and will trust her own con­victions no matter what. Women should be alert to the fact that Bush feels they cannot be trusted to make intelligent decisions should fetal tissue research be­come a factor. His lack of faith in women is so strong, in fact, that he is willing to let thousands of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s pa­tients die needlessly rather than trust women to think carefully about their actions.Finally, Bush applauded the recent Supreme Court decision allowing states to impose severe restrictions on women’s access, to abortion. He supports a Wait­ing period of 24 hours, from the time a woman requests an abor­tion to the time her request is granted — again calling into question a woman’s ability to give the issue serious thought on her
think about it regardless of a waiting period, and that such a measure will only cause women more trauma and hardship once they have already made this dif­ficult decision.Parental consent is another restriction supported by Bush, the Supreme Court decision, and, surprisingly, Bill Clinton (in some form). Remember, though, that Clinton’s support for parental consent is probably more open to modification than Bush’s, due mainly to the differences in their respective constituencies: mod­erates and liberals on the one hand; conservatives, reactionar­ies, and religious fanatics on the other.The justification for parental inform and consent is that a girl under 18 is not mature enough to make the decision to abort (she 
is, however, mature enough to raise and support the child should she decide to continue the preg­nancy). This measure is basically a solution for a problem that hardly exists; most young women in this situation do in fact tell their parents about it, and there’s ample reason to believe that the ones who don’t do so have a fairly good reason. Pleading her case before a judge only makes the procedure all the more traumatic for a young woman, and there are documented cases of teenagers who have sought illegal abortions in order to avoid parental notifi-
cation or having to obtain judi­cial bypass. Young women have even died as a result of these botched back-alley procedures. Is this what Bush wants?• Apparently, this is exactly what Bush wants. It’s clear, looking at his record on abortion restric­tions, that he thinks very little of women’s moral and intellectual capabilities. He also lacks a clear understanding of one of the prin­ciples upon which our nation is based: equal treatment under the law. His administration has suc­ceeded in undermining access to abortions, which, in Bush’s eyes, is the next best thing to outlaw­ing all abortions.Even if abortion should be made illegal, as Bush and Quayle be­lieve, it must become the official law of the land — not what is “right” according to Bush. He has no grasp of the difference between what is and what should be, and the restrictions he has placed on abortion demonstrate this clearly. Bush even vetoed or threatened to veto Congress’ efforts to legis­late protection to women from these unjust policies.According to the Bush administration’s doctrine, women need a lot of people telling them what they should and . shouldn’t do when they choose to exercise their legal rights. Women can’t be trusted to give the matter of abortion much thought; that bur­den falls upon Bush, Quayle, and other great minds of the 20th century.Let’s put aside, for the moment, the issue of whether abortion it­self is right or wrong. Men and women everywhere must realize that no matter how righteous the motive, the intentional undermin­
ing of women’s access to a legal 
procedure is wrong. A fact of im­mediate concern to all Americans, regardless of their stance on abor­tion, is that women deserve a lot more credit than Bush is willing to give them. Remember it when you vote on Tuesday.
Abby Schiff is a sophomore in 
H&SS who favors a longer wait­
ing period for Presidents seeking 
to send arms to insane Third 
World dictators.
The Editor’s Notebook
- JI will be immensely relieved when this election is over. I enjoy politics, and po­litical debates and arguments have pro­vided hours of amusement for the past fewmonths. But I am absolutely sick and tired of the mud-slinging, character-trash­
ing, “dirty tricks”-accusing of all the can­didates. No one is immune, from the Presi­dential candidates to those running for spots in local government — as their ad­vertisements display so clearly.Political candidates are sadly underes­timating the intelligence of the American public, and I, for one, am insulted. By focusing on negative images in their ad­vertising, the impression is that candi­dates would rather sling mud than talk issues. “Well, what these people are really interested in are National Enquirer head­lines. So why should we bother with Wall 
Street Journal issues?” Here’s a hint—it’s
because those issues will determine the way people vote.I don’t care who slept with whom, or who can spell, or whether Millie the dog should be the next Secretary of State. I care about what the candidates are going to do about education, how they propose to deal with children living in poverty, how they will accomodate the fact that elderly people are the fastest growing population in the United States. I want to know how they will balance jobs and the environment, if I will have a job when I graduate, and, yes, how their stands on abortion will affect me.This year is the first time I will vote for
the President of the United States. I want to elect a candidate who will answer these questions honestly and not spend all of his time telling me what a horrible person the opponent is. Unfortunately, what we get every time we turn on the television is another dose of negative advertising, pep­pered with innuendo and the dire conse­quences of electing one of the other candi­dates. Whether the candidates I support are elected or not, Tuesday night will be the welcome end to a disappointing trend of negativism in political advertising— at least until next time.— M.K. Rodgers
Letters to the Editor
Continued from LETTERS, page 6
ponents. I believe in Clinton and Gore. They really do offer a new generation of leadership, a mod- efft&pproach to our nation’s prob­lems, and a much stronger vision fttf'fhe future. Let’s give these guys a chance!
«Justin A. Boyan 
Graduate Student, CS
Senator calls for 
editorial fact checks
Editor:-As an indi­
vidual Senator,
on
not necessarily Letter to 
the^eweofthe the EditorEntire Senate, I would like to re- spoiid to several allegations and 
¡^representations circulated in last week’s editorials.the first editorial, it was stated that a referendum was H&eessary “whenever Senate is JTing to get away with some- hing....” The implication that ehdte would try to slip anything y the student body is reprehen- ® We, and I have not seen one instance of such an event during my^enn on Senate. Also , it al- most seems according to the edi­
torial that the Senate is in agree­ment with the proposed bylaws and is debating with them with the student body—untrue, since Senate has totaled over 12 hours in deliberating said bylaws.In the second editorial, the al­legation was made that Senate has been fiscally irresponsible because we did not take into ac­count the fact that enrollment is down this semester, and that we therefore have less funds to spend as a result. The truth of the mat­ter is that we allocated the major­ity of the money for this semester’s budgets during last semester, and did not discover the fact that en­rollment was down until less than a month ago. The Tartan’s mis­representation of Senate in this case is reprehensible — even in an editorial, it is standard proce­dure to check your facts, is it not?I would like to point out that the majority of Senate money goes to keep the public informed — for Public Relations, Copying & Reproduction, a salary for the secretary (so that we have min­utes of public record), and tele­phone usage. If we cut our budget to attempt to cover the deficit incurred by lower enrollment, we would fail to inform our constitu­ents of our proceedings, which
(judging from the amount of va­cant seats) is still currently a problem with Senate.In the future, I call on the Edi­torial Board of the Tartan to check their facts and be honest with the student body, rather than slur­ring over important details, fab­ricating false implications, and attempting to deceive the stu­dents.
Burt Holzman 
Student Senator 
Sophomore, CIT
Tartan editorial full 
of misinformation
oniMIrr Uj tU VAlU*
Letter to the Editor
Editor:Again, the Tartan Edito­rial staff has failed to look before it leaped.It would greatly benefit The Tar­tan, Student Senate, and the stu­dent body if the editors would try to obtain correct information be­fore they spout their anti-Senate tainted misinformation. The is­sue I am addressing concerns the proposed new Bylaws of the Stu­dent Body of Carnegie Mellon University.Bylaws allow an organization
to exist; they create positions, functions, etc., of a body. The cur­rent Constitution granted Sen­ate the sole authority to amend the Constitution; that is precisely what is being done. According to 
Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly 
Revisedx as soon as a bylaw amendment is passed, it immedi­ately becomes effective. In the case of the new bylaws, as soon as they are passed they become the new law. These bylaws would then be the rules that grant the presidential veto power. It would be impossible to veto the very rules that grant a power. In addi­tion, the idea of a presidential veto power over something as important as the bylaws is ri­diculous. What sort of system would grant one person the power to make a decision concerning something as important as the bylaws over the decision of 34 people?The editors of The Tartan who have attended the meetings of Student Senate seem more con­cerned with preventing Senate from passing an improved set of governing regulations for the stu­dent body than they are concerned with passing false news of gloom and doom. Not one positive point has yet been printed. A great deal
Camoglo Mollon’s Student Nowspnpor 
Slnco 1906
Editor-In-Chief................Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor...........M.K. Rodgors
Business Mgr..........Timothy S. Blass
of effort has gone into these by­laws with one purpose and one purpose only: to make the rules more coherent and more uniform.As a final note, this letter origi­nally contained much more sub­stance and considerably more backing for its points. In order to have my view printed, I was forced to cut my thoughts to 350 words. When The Tartan attacked Sen­ate, they used459. More will come later....
Greg Haverkamp 
Student Senator 
Junior, ECE
Editor’s Note: The Tartan’s let­
ter policy states a limit of 350 
words for a Letter to the Editor. 
The policy reads as follows: Let­
ters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the Uni­
versity community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer’s 
address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be with­
held upon request. The Tartan re­
quests that letters be no longer than 
350 words. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to with­
hold from publication-tiny copy it 
deems unfit for publication.
THE TARTAN
News Editor............Brendan M°Fooly
Forum Editor.................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor......................Josh Under
Features Editor................Megan Dietz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor... Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors.............Maml Borek
Daniel Frey 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor.........................Ramsey Hong
Production Mgr..................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad McDanlel
Asst. Business Mgr........Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Ed. Kendrick Kerwln Chua
Asst. Forum Ed......Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendinning 
Asst. Features Editors ...Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
Asst Diversions Ed.........Andy Vaughan
Asst. Art Editor.........Samuel Greenfield
Asst. Production Mgrs........Katie Swango
Derek Wahlla 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstodor, 
Stephen Gllckor, D.A. Honderaon, 
Mark Hllllor, Doxter Kobayushl, Both 
A. Mosos, Richard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Dnvo Martin, Christian Rootlfo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwrltors 
Nicolo Allen, Joff Baslsta, Kristen 
Bovorldgo, Trinotto Chandlor, Bob 
Dixon, Bobbi o Dofflomoyor, Koegan 
Folk, Dan Galloghor, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauren Holnz, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Lubomlr KochanskyJ, Both 
Macdonald, Chris Maplos, Doclun 
McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Michels, Trupti Pntol, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schiff, Andrew Sproulo, Kelly 
Sterling, Stoph Stine, Jason Togyor, 
Mlko Walkor, Jason Wyse, Losllo 
Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borie, Matt 
Goldberg, Jenifer Mul6, Drew Olbrich, 
Elliott Schiff, Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Kerry 
Hagan, Reid Hecker, Diane Keen, 
Anne Lopez, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Mac Mlrchandani, Jen Urso 
Production 
Kuo Chlang, Tony "Sting" deFlglo, 
Shiv Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael 
Gibson, Otis Greene, Alexandra 
Hector, Brockett Horne, Michael 
Peck, Drew Shefman
Copy
RoshnlBhakta,MadhavGhanta,Yerln 
Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne Lopez, 
Catherine Marquis, Ed Slavlshak, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Nathan Dohm, An­
drea Franclonl, Marybeth Griffin, 
Karen Grunberg, Megan Gurgon 
Cheryl Harris, Mike Hofsass, Julian 
Hollingshead, Lesley Kay, Mike 
Keating, Mike Keller, John Kunlchlka, 
Ellen Lalumere, Meron Langsner, 
Thomas Lee, Sung Lee, Monica Leeke, 
Nina Liang, Jackie Maher, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Tanya Maynlgo, Amy 
McGovern, J. Ralne Pickett, Tonya 
Rado, Melissa Reaves, Syd Rodriguez, 
Ben Shelton, Jon Slenk, Eric Strauss, 
lllr Toska, Usa Vltalbo, Gary Wilson
Tho Tnrtnn is tho student newspaper of Cameglo 
Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pub­
lished by students during tho fall and spring semes­
ters, at no cost'to mombers of tho University 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for tho 
semestor or academic year. The odltorluln appear­
ing at tho beginning of tho opinion section aro tho 
official opinion of Tho Torton editorial board. Coh 
umno and political cortoons are tho opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Torton reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Lottorn to tho Editor are opinions of authors who 
aro usually, but not necessarily, members of tho 
University community. A letter Intended for publica­
tion must bo signed and Include tho writer's address 
and pliono numbor for verification. Namos will bo 
withheld upon request. Tho Torton roquoots that 
letters bo no longor tlion 350 words. Tho Torton 
reserves tho right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright © 1992 by Tho Torton. Tho Torton edito­
rial board rcsorvoo tho right to withhold from publi­
cation ony copy It deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111 Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Carneglo 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
17 percent funded by your Activities Feo.
All rights reserved.
J.lJ)rarY0f.C0nilrcSB ISSN H: 0890-3107,_

---------------------------------------------------

'ampus
Be A Bartender ! \ ¿t&mi
Campus Bartending is offering courses on campus. Comparable courses at Pittsburgh's Barmaster's and International Bartending Institute cost $395 to $695 respectively. We are offering our courses at very reasonable prices. Pro Bartending, the professional course, is only $225. But, as an introductory offer, we are reducing the cost to $189. So hurry! kM sCn Iov7 nf Us .C6mtUmg YE 100RE sCn p87 vmu ou MCg uAm lC*E lC* fgopm CM 
41;0J Class space is limited, and you only have to be eighteen.
For more information, call the University Entrepreneurial Association office at 268-3535, or email Boris Portman at bpl9 or Paolo Malabuyo at pm3o.
Due to demand,»artending
ampus
Special Ofáen, fan, 4tctde*U& !
artending
% M £ Æ « (1) tí2 Ä UP
Final session for this calendar year! 
Class is Nov. 10 through Nov. 21
Name
G~)Q
<D
rH« stH O
Present Address
<U
Phone Number
we are offering just Pro Bartending for the final session of the calendar year. We are also making the class start later than before so those of you with evening classes can attend!
•gC e8gum7,o7v is the professional level course which offers:*18-20 hours of instruction over two weeks?professional bartending knowledge and skills including bar management, inventory, cashiering, etc.*many recipes - not just drinks but also flavored vodka, coffee liquer (like Kahlua), etc.*an extensive presentation on wines and champagnes by a guest speaker ?instruction by two local professionals who have had years of experience
YQYQYQYJM ! , |M f.... i, J|nr ni, ,
?skills in dealing with bar situations, knowing what to say, what not to say, having the proper attitude ?certification by TIPPS ?pamphlets on safe alcohol consumption?an extensive Pro Bartending course book and a box of recipes to keep ?certification upon successful completion of the course ?and much, much more!
Class schedule:Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday 9:30-11:30 PM Pro Bartending Saturday12:30-3:30 PM Pro BartendingKI
Location:Kappa Sigma Fraternity House 1063 Morewood Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213
| If returned by Nov. 5, 1992, cost is $169. Thereafter cost is $189. | 
O Complete this discount certificate and make checks payable to CMU/Job-express. O
The legal age to bartend is eighteen, so what are you waiting for? Sign up now!
For every student enrolled, a donation will be made to SADD, 
Students Against Driving Drunk.
Campus Bartending is affiliated with ilie University Entrepreneurial Association (UEA).
The UEA is partially funded by the Student Senate of CMU.
Hlj
r.nyiv.
• irotiD 
¿Ü2Í3U 
IW 3ililiLiuo
•HMifi '
èiM
realizable future...
Companies include:
ocsiness Opportunities Conference
Thursday, November 5, 1992 10:30 am"4 pmSkibo Ballroom
The Business Opportunities Conference
is a place where students and companies come together for the 
purposes of exchanging information and discussing future em­
ployment opportunities. 
Career opportunities for people majoring in Industrial Management, 
Economics, Information and Decision Sciences, Social and Deci­
sion Sciences, Statistics, Operating Research, Professional Writing, 
or anyone interested in business.
For further information, contact Beth Moses at 268-4705, bm25 or Peter Chang at 681-7276, peech@cmu.edu
American Management Systems 
Andersen Consulting 
AT&T
Banta Corporation 
Bell Atlantic
Bowne of New York City, Inc.
Braxton Associates
The Chase Manhattan Bank
Citibank
EDS
Hewitt Associates 
Information Resources, Inc.
Intel Corporation
J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc.
Kaufmann's
Linotype-Hell
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
Northwestern Mutual Life
Putnam, Hayes, & Bartlett, Inc.
R.R. Donnelley and Sons
Sprint
Susquehanna Investment Group
USF&G
Xerox Company
liVVOj' T vhij :>;Vr[dHfil r
.•ecfiulinliri1
m iRg,R i amo

---------------------------------------------------

PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Pulling the 
punch from 
the NHL
The year is 1975. In Philadel­phia, the streets are cold and empty, but somewhere, in the distance, faint shouts and cheers float plaintively on the wind to anyone who remains on the de­serted streets. The source of the ruckus is the Spectrum, where the whole city came to watch a toothless Bobby Clarke score with i bleeding forehead on a sprawl­ing Ken Dryden.Minutes later, George “The Hammer” Shultz with his char­acteristic snarl and sideburns down to his ankles pummels a surly Dave Topachenko into sweet oblivion with his taped fists. This is the era of the “Broad Street Bullies,” and the ice belonged to Philadelphia.But not always. Beware, be­cause always lurking around the corner was Dave “The Tiger” Wil­liams from Vancouver, or “Ter­rible” Ted Green. The Hammer didn’t have an easy job. Sure, beating the brains out of Chicago’s Stan Mikita would have been a piece of cake, if only he didn’t have to get through Bill “The Butcher” Butters. And The Butcher had an innovative tech­nique for removing one’s block without using anesthetic.This was hockey. The intimida­tion, the senseless violence, the swollen fists, and bruised faces were a part of the game since its conception. In fact, the first re­corded hockey game, in Winnipeg Manitoba, ended in a brawl which the police had to break up. A witness recalled, “Players fought and hollered, women swooned, and people fled in general confu­sion....” What can you do with a sport with such a rich tradition?You let it continue. If people don’t like the way the sport is being played, then I tell them not towatch. Though,I’veneverbeen to a hockey game where, during a fight, everyone didn’t stand to get a better view, and the level of cheering rose 10 decibels. Let’s face it folks, the human race is a violent one.I was watching the Penguins - Senators game the other night, and I saw a healthy Mario Lemiuex carry the puck from the defensive zone, to the offensive al crease, and park it there for more than a minute, with nary a Senators defenseman laying a hand on him. He didn’t even get checked. I don’t care if he was the Virgin Mary standing on the goal crease. He should have been checked from Ottawa to King­dom come. That would have never happened in 1975.As Rangers tough guy Tie Domie said, “Its already a sissy game ... soon we’ll be skating in skirts.” And the new rule changes only make it worse. Players can’t touch a guy without being ejected for instigation or some other 
happy horse crap like that.I don’t understand this new wave hockey fan. Instead, I cast ®y weary eyes toward yester- year, back to the days when the Bobby Orrs, the Phil Espositos, Md the toothless Bobby Clarkes kept us on the edge of our seats, while the “Terrible” Ted Greens, Hammers, and the Tigers kept Us frightened. Those were real ®en and that was Old-Time Hockey. That’s the only kind of hockey I know.
Paul Platosh is a sophomore cre- 
at‘ve and professional writing 
major.
SPORTS
Soccer upsets Washington U.
Men’s team hopes for first-ever playoff selection with 12-4-1 record
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter
As the clock ran out on an October that saw heroes made of unsung players like Francisco Cabrera, Ed Sprague, and Mike Timlin, the Tartan men’s soccer team added two more names to that list: junior goalkeeper Dan Warren and junior back Michael Brazinski, who led the Tartans to a 1-0 victory over UAA rival Washington Uni­versity.
Warren, who a year ago was in the hos­pital for 20 days after breaking a rib and tearing his spleen in half against Grove City College, replaced injured starter and All-UAAjunior David Shapiro after Shapiro broke a bone in his back on October 23 against Emory University. The talented but inexperienced reserve, whose career was once in doubt, made seven tough saves to record the shutout. Meanwhile,Brazinski, who had not lettered until this season, tallied his sixth goal of the year on a breakaway to provide the margin of vic­tory.“I just wanted to make sure we didn’t lose because I made a mistake,” Warren said. “I didn’t make any mistakes today, though. Shapiro played well all year, and I’ve been waiting around. I got my chance, and I’m happy with the way I played. I came back because I just wanted to play, and it turned out well. It’s a big turn­around from being in the hospital.”“He played super for goaltending with­out any time this year. That’s why you have a good backup. He did a great job,” head coach Nick Gaudioso said.“It’s the best feeling I’ve ever had,”Brazinski said of his goal. “It was great. We all hustled as a team and we knew that we had to win this game, and we all gave it 100 percent.”
“It was a counterattack,” he described. “I just hustled up the sideline. I challenged the guy, and he played the ball off me, and I stole it and just sprinted down the line and snuck it past the goalie.”CMU and Washington battled back and forth for the entire first half, with both teams having several scor-
Phll Joyco/Tartan Artist
d86m rA8fogC 87, d87 O8ggm7E uAm w8gu87Ii u*C vC8l‘mmfmgIE A86m fgm6m7um, uAm 
CffCIouoC7 MgCt IpCgo7v o7 1) CM uAm v8tmIE 87, A86m lotoum, uAm CffCIouoC7 uC Mm*mg uA87 
1Y vC8lI o7 uAm 1- v8tmIy
ing chances, most notably one for CMU about 15 minutes into the game. Brazinski collided with Bears goalie Tim Stewart, but while Stewart lay injured on
the field, the Tartans could not score on the empty net. However, with just under 15 minutes gone in the second half, Brazinski deflected a pass, outsprinted one de­fender, faked out another, and beat Washington goalie Patric Santo Pietro.After that, the Tartans held the ball and played tough defense throughout the last half-hour of the game, with Warren coming up big time and again, once jumping over a Wash­ington player to make a save, and several times pouncing on the ball in a crowd. Carnegie Mellon also had their chances, but Santo Pietro stopped them several times on breakaways resulting from clear­ing passes over the Washington defend­ers.Unfortunately, the Tartans had to wait to find out their fate and see if their playoff dreams became a reality. The play­off invitations were not given out by the NCAA until nine this morning. However, Gaudioso said the odds were in their fa­vor.“[Our chances to make the playoffs] are very good. The only tiling the committee can look at is strength of schedule,” ho said. "The other team and us both liavo the exact same record [12-4—1 overall]. There’s no question in my mind wo liavo a stronger schedule, but it’s how the com­mittee looks at it.”Of course, his enthusiasm was tem­pered by what could liavo boon: “If wo hadn’t lost an earlier game wo thought wo could have won, wo could havo clinched an automatic bid tonight. This conference [the UAA] has an automatic bid to the tournament.”“We’re playing well, though. Wo’ro do­ing everything we can do. We’re playing at the top of our game, and there aren’t going to be any teams tougher than the one we played tonight.”
Volleyball ends 
successful season
Ignatius Sasmlta/Tartan Personnel Manager 
Dn7oCg A8lMU8p‘ c, Fnl87, v8o7m, !H gnIAo7v s8g,I 87, R0 gmpmo6o7v s8g,I k7 r8ung,8sKI MCCuU8ll v8tmy
Football grinds Grove City
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
On a day which could be considered as having “perfect football weather,” the Tartans football team put on a perfect showing of their talent for the Carnegie Mellon parents by defeating the Grove City Wolverines by a score of 35-14.The 48-degree weather did not chill the Tartans, as they finally have shown that they can compete in the first half. The defense did an excellent job in preventing the Grove City Wolverines from gaining a first down until the end of the first quarter, and the offense scored on their first possession a 17-play drive that ate up 10 minutes on the clock. Fred Harding continued to be effective, completing all five of his extra point attempts. The CMU defense came back after the initial touchdown drive to stop the Wolverines again, with sophomore safety Steve Voytovich breaking up a key Grove City pass. He also finished with five unassisted tackles, making the school almost forget about the injured John Fratto.The second quarter opened up much like the first, with the Tartans dominating. Captain Andy Helms intercepted a pass from Grove City quarterback Tom Miles to end the Grove City drive. Only a few seconds later, junior wide reciever Andy Van Sprang caught a 21-yard pass for a touchdown. Grove City quickly recovered from the second CMU score by driving 63 yards to cut the Tartans lead to seven points. The Tartans came back from the score to increase Grove City’s deficit with a 10-yard touch­down run by Ed Ruland, who finished the game with 112 all-purpose yards.The second half didn’t begin as promising as the first half, for the Tartans accumulated 33 yards of penalties within two minutes. Grove City capital­
ized on CMU’s mistakes, with sophomore tight end Andy Sems catching a 30-yard touchdown pass. Andy, the younger of the Sems brothers, finished the game with 53 yards recieving, while his older sibling Rick, the flanker for the Wolver­ines, finished with 134. The Wolverines would only get within seven points, for the rest of the game was dominated by the mighty Tartans.To start the fourth quarter, the Tartans scored quickly, with sophomore quarterback Chris Dee scoring on an eight yard run. They were “pumped up” after that, with the defense preventing the Wolverines from scoring. Ben Burton’s second sack of Grove City’s Miles put the quarterback in his place, after his post-touchdown antics angered many of the players and fans alike. Jason Grusky, quiet throughout the first three quarters of the game, came on in the fourth period to finish the game with 127 total yards, 115 of those coming on the ground. His efforts earned him the co-Block- buster Player of the Game Award. The defense prevented Grove City from scoring, sealing the score at 35-14 and giving the Tartans a 5-2 record.The defense had a very good day, with only a few mistakes made. Junior linebacker Chad Wilson had 10 tackles and a key pass breakup. He played his position very well, as he almost intercepted two passes. Senior inside linebacker Jim Cooke had six tackles, but he has given up his kicking career since the Chicago game. Defensive tackle Ben Burton, who was the second Blockbluster Player of the Game, played a superb game, with five tackles and two key sacks, one which pre­vented Grove City from scoring late in the game.The team finishes its season against Catholic University next week and Case Western on No­vember 14.
By LUBOMIR KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, the volleyball team concluded their successful regular season schedule with a 3—1 victory over Chatham Col­lege. The win improved Carnegie Mellon's record to 19—14 while Chatham dropped to 3-12.The match was used by the Tartans to prepare for the UAA Championships, scheduled on October 29-31 at the University of Chicago. “Our main goal to­
night was to work on our plays and different rotations, and do everything as hard as we could to prepare for the tournament, ” said Lisa Leonardo, a 5 ' 10'' senior who dominated play at the net where she recorded 16 kills and assisted on four blocks.Game one, a 15-8 win for Carnegie Mellon, saw them start out strong with a 7—0 run. Chatham battled back to close within one at 7-6. Carnegie Mellon took control and wrapped it up with the precision serving of sophomore Molly Brennan, who served the last five points of the game.The second game went to Chatham 15-13. Again the Tar­
tans got off to the quick start, leading 8-1. A timeout by Chatham helped them to regroup and they rebounded with four straight points. A few minutes later they called a second timeout, after which they ran off five more points to close the gap to 11-10. Both teams traded points and sideouts before Chatham pre­vailed.The Tartans dominated games three and four, winning both by scores of 15-6 and 15-3 respec­tively.
When Leonardo was asked to assess the team’s performance, she said, “I was really happy with how we played today. Transition was good, we worked on our serv- ing. They didn’t have any blockers, so we really had no ob­stacles to go around.”The Tartans were led by the setting of senior Lisa Devlin (16 assists) and Brennan (21 assists). Senior Ann Feng led the defense with five digs and also hit three service aces. Senior Elizabeth Rowlands had a strong perfor­mance at the net with nine kills and assisted on two blocks, as did senior Heather Thompson, who recorded seven kills and hit two service aces.
Josh Llndor/Tartan Sports Editor
Ready. Fence!
GNxiI F87,s egn7C ,mMm7,I uAm 8uu8p‘ Us x7o6mgIous CM enMM8lCKI 
k87 •l87u 8u uAm plnU MCol uCng78tm7u uA8u *8I Aml, k7 wAoIulm P8ll 
C7 r8ung,8sy

---------------------------------------------------

"
K.**'
¦e^ '
1 « t.«*
Ae c**
°1., «£**'»*
to
=* P o°v° c°vuco^J .
¦V rto^V .. V' 
***'
*e®
^ *n' *
-ViV* 7 , v I V
wdo''.7^'
!.eV'
O'*i»*0 .¿Ï& 
' 'A>''
oV^'o°(¿eslV
«0 V-'^"
c^>'.
,.V* ^ 
, *£«&<£!.¦ _^>*v' ,**»•*
<&•
¦ofie
&\°'(
>V'
^°N<Ve- .
¿t*** .^Aw v>*rt.„Ä * ^ ^e \\tA
à ^ ¿“V®
#0*
• e^
-, yv
V-¦ ndS® ,V\A ,'0vc^C°'i
tvtV1
. -©Ov>VçV\
*tevo>te*<55^
. x>*<^ 
kc® îvoP»* - .iv\àv v"'* 1
, V0V -c-C0
A
G-C1
X&x&
VI 0
- „pî>v c>.V 
Xe
ic^alc"H
Ï3GT~'iòriciara
SA?,
ìXT
A3HraJnl
'..a.’ïCT/i¦:rw,aAorgiHOÎt
«av*,4
hwbt
aisHWIM
rna
;’j n
loH ipiT 
ri?iì ^ n i(
insu
nSfwi».in 
7 XT ioiO t\'lQ 
! irW 
[ ì-•! 
EA3 jììgCI eiHrna
HA3
f’sie
erIT
e“WhIh;;M,','va 
IXT v uuS ™>M 
H.7/I •>of!B iVÌQ
6V1>6'
,^e\àV'
¿0^'
!f \()u Speak This Language,Speak To Us.
To certain people, this isn’t just a list of 
symbols. It’s a work of art. It’s where cool 
technology starts. And eventually changes 
the world.
You see the beauty in a piece of 
optimized code. We do too. Which is why 
we created the optimum environment to 
make it happen, giving you autonomy and 
authority without layers of management.
At Microsoft, we respect talented people 
who do creative things with code. And can 
use it to build innovative products that
improve the way people work.
If that sounds like your idea of a great 
environment, see us. You’ll find that we 
speak your language.
If you are pursuing a Bachelor’s, 
Master’s, or PhD degree in Computer 
Science, Electrical Engineering, Math, 
Physics, or related discipline, we want to 
talk with you at our On-Campus interviews.
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity 
Employer and supports workforce diversity.
13
in
’ Tl
Microsoft
Microsoft® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation-
On-Campus Interviews
Friday, January 18,1992 • Full-time and Summer Technical Positions 
See your Career Center for details. 
Resumes due to Career Center November 6,1992

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 199213
IM ScoreboardIM News
SOCCERMatharoonies110NIN220MAJORSSpice020VB Spuds410Real Mellon A3 0 0Indestructible Oreos110MINORSReal Mellon B210DIVISION GDIVISIONA
Bfp.030Beta Brazilians010BSO110TX Grebe’s Team120Kickers020SAE Funny Guys210INTERMEDIATESig Tau B1 1 0Air Force ROTC020
snonpnmyIPi Lam B100TX Bold Team200DTD Star200Vilang Death Rats200The Lechters120SAEA110DIVISION HDIVISION BTX Batmen '200DTD Dark010SAE Tough Guys300KSA Tigers020Kickballers1 1 057 Sauce II120Inter Pittsburgh200Tud or Knot1 1 0Velvet Touches220F.E.R.A.TS.020DU Drunks1 00Phi Kap Leftover120IWUANYAWU NAT.020Pioneers Blue110Basement Boyz120
DIVISION BDIVISION IDIVISION CNavy100PiKAC010KSA110Roughnecks010Air Force ROTC110DU020DU010Big Dawg Wana Eat110Pioneers Silver200PiKAA100Pioneers red010TX Hunted Monkeys200Ballbusters100SAE C200Kappa Sig Lunatics020Heinz Soccer...010WOMEN ONLYDIVISION DMINORSThe Flying O’s/V-B110ASA300
DIVISIONAZephyrs110Sha Ka Ha Las300Navy200Phi-Kap010Sig Tau A220Pi Lam A200Pioneers200KDR030Hot Truck Special010Kappa Navy010Pi Lam B030Trojans010Theta110DIVISION EFish Fettish020VOLLEYBALLDragon Balls020
DIVISION BMAJORSTX Associates110FRINGE010Rude Dogs300Navy310Kappa Sig Flat Feet020SAE B210Mamasons & Papasons120Pink Spotted...10 0Phi Kap Six Pack130SAE Tall Guys200TX Beer Team0 0 0Team Waffle130DIVISION FGronks200INTERMEDIATEBump Set Psych300
DIVISION CDIVISIONAZoo A120Phi Kap Pacific2 0 0DDT040FRINGE200Fat Italians2 0 0Spikes on the Line320Sig Tau B020SAE Smokers0 2 0Heavy & the Boyz500Team AEPi110Doherty Velvet Touch110The Noise130DIVISION GPirahnas020I’m not Worthy130Beta Spikers210
DIVISION DTX Spike310Pi Lam A200SAE B2 0 0DIVISION BSlam & Cram130Sig Tau A2 0 0KSA Tigers130Phi Kap South020The Cakeboys120Phi Kap North400PiKAB210AEPi Excellents12 0Basic Blocks310DIVISION HMudge A Tower02057 Sauce II040GNC300
DIVISION EMantis210PiKAA210TX Red Cards010Mech. Advantage140me Squared030Zoo A110DIVISION CLambda Sigma120Morewood F-Ball110SAEA500Pig Dog Molloys120KDR010Net Grazers040Pioneers Gold210Shooting Worms200Gods of V-Ball050
DIVISION FDTD110Compiled byTX Yellow Cards10057 Sauce I210ANDY GLENDINNING
SPORTS IN SEASON
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:Jim Saxon, x5482 Ed Pyo, x5515 Matches will start on Novem­ber 15. Please pick up your sched­ules in the IM Office.
WATER POLO
Commissioners:Mike Kappus, x5302 Joanne Kievan, x5900 Lifeguard Denise Fenwick, x4046, will be on duty during all scheduled matches. Please return all equipment to its proper place following the last match of the evening. Playoffs start this week. Check the IM bulletin board for schedules.
CHESS
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 The schedules for this season are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Please play all matches as scheduled and report your scores to the commissioner.
SOCCER
Commissioners:Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371 Intermediate — Dave Ekern, x5354Minors — John Stack, 361-0274 Women Only — Molly McDer­mott, 682-3529 The schedules for this season are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Standings will be posted on the IM bulletin board. The following minors games have been rescheduled to the given times: Tuesday, A 3-4, 4:30 pm,Field C; Wednesday, B 3—4,7:30 pm, Field C; November 9,11-2,6:30 pm, Field A; Novem­ber 9, F 4—5, 7:30 pm, Field A;
November 10, A 1-2, 4:30 pm, Field D; November 11, C 1-2, 7:30 pm, Field B.
BOWLING
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Matches began on Saturday, and are rolled on the Forward Lanes on Forward Avenue in Squirrel Hill, 422-5844. The cost per line is $1.75 plus playoffs, and shoes cost $.50. Schedules are out and can be picked up in the IM Office.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371 Intermediate — Dave Ekern, x5354Minors — John Stack, 361-0274 Women Only —• Molly McDer­mott, 682-3529 The schedules for this season are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Matches started on October 13. Standings are posted on the IM bulletin board.
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner:Jim Saxon, x5482 Entries were due on October 8. Play singles only, and report scores to the IM Office. Matches start this week. Schedules can bo picked up in the IM Office.
CO-REC WATER POLO
Commissioners:Mike Kappus, x5302 Joanne Kievan, x5900 Entries are due on Thursday.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner:Jon Wei, 688-9504 Matches begin this week. Schedules can be picked up in the IM Office. Please report scores to
the commissioner.
DARTS
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Schodulos can bo pickod up in the IM Office.
FENCING
Commissioner:Randy Bruno, x8672 The sabre tournament will be on November 8. There will be a team, three-weapon tournament held on November 22. Teams must be made up of three fencers. Call the commissioner to sign up.
UPCOMING SPORTS
THREE PERSON VOLLEY­BALL
Commissioner:Jim Saxon, x5482 Entries were due on October 29 by 4:30 pm. Schedules will be posted this week.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries were due on October 29 by 4:30 pm. Schedules will be posted this week.
BRIDGE
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries were duo on October 29 by 4:30 pm. Schodulos will bo postod this wook.
BUSINESS
Tho next IM Board Meeting will bo hold on Novombor G at 12:30 pm in tho IM Ol'fico.
Compiled by ANDY GLENDINNINGMcs
THE MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
REQUESTS PROPOSALS FOR NOMINATION FOR
THE JULIUS ASHKIN TEACHING AWARD
This award is intended to encourage and recognize 
unusual devotion and effectiveness in teaching 
undergraduate students in the Mellon College of 
Science.
A full description of the Julius Ashkin Teaching 
Award, including eligibility criteria and nomination 
procedure, is available in Scaife Hall 110.
Proposals for Nomination (by letter of two pages at most) may be made by any group of least five persons, each of whom is either a current or retired regular or special faculty member or a current or former full-time undergraduate or graduate student in Carnegie Mellon, and are due in Scaife Hall 110 by November 16,1992.
classified
ADOPTION
We can make this difficult time easier 
for you. We are a white, professional 
couple wanting to welcome a baby Into 
our own home. We will pay expenses— 
legal and medical. Confidential. Please 
call us if you are interested. Brent/ 
Jennifer. Collect. 410-367-8242.
Want to travel free, earn cash and 
resume experience? Students and 
organizations call College Tours to join 
our teaml We have 25 years experience, 
great prices, hotels and destinations. Call 
1(800)959-4SUN.
PERSONALS
POR SALE
1986 Laser, great condition, 2-door, air 
conditioning, PS/PB, 5 speed, new 
transmission/dutch, inspected, rear 
spoiler, low miles, well maintained—oil 
changed every 3,000, good tires, P-T-S 
$2,200 obo 234-6285 M-F 7-6.
Macintosh hard drive. 80Mb Quantum 
ProDrive. $250. 391-8471 (9AM- 
3:30PM).
JJOUSING
Available immediately for rent. Twnhse 
cor Denniston/Aylesboro. $850 plus gas 
& elec. 3 BR, euro kitchen, completely 
updated. Immaculate condition.
Furnished private bedroom, share 
kitchen and bath. Atwood Street. 521- 
7213
J'RAVEL
JOBS
$200-$500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa­
tion-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright # PA11KDH.
Are you model material? Donna Belajac 
and company is in search of new faces. If 
you are serious about modeling and ° 
earning extra money, submit snapshots 
along with your height, weight and 
clothing size (include a self-addressed 
stamped envelope) to: Donna Belajac 
and Company, One Bigelow Square, 
Suite 1924, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. No 
fee involved.
Don't get a job next summer. Get a 
business. College Pro Painters are 
recruiting Franchise Managers for 1993. 
Call 1-800-327-2468 for Information. 
Interviews being scheduled for 11/10 
and 11/18/92.
"Asians & Friends, a gay social 
organization is welcoming international 
members to share their unique cultures. 
Good food, good friends, great fun. P.O. 
Box 16455, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15242. (279- 
8013)."
WANTED
The Peace corps is herel Representative 
Frank Higdon is available in Room 4GU1, 
Forbes Center, at the University of 
Pittsburgh. Majors we're looking for: 
math, science, business, or a health or 
education field. All expenses paid plus 
benefits. Phone: 412-648-7424. U.S. 
citizenship required.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
$$$$, Free travel and resume experi­
ence!! Individuals and student organiza­
tions wanted to promote spring break, 
call the nation's leader. Inter-campus 
programs 1-800-327-6013.
Looking for a top fraternity, sorority, or 
student organization that would like to 
make $500-$1500 for a one week 
marketing project right on campus. Must 
be organized and hardworking. Call 800- 
592-2121. Ext 308.
Low student and faculty fares to 
International destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.** 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring Break 1993!!! Breakaway Travel i 
now hiring campus reps to promote 
Spring & Winter break vacations. 
Cancún, Jamaica, Bahamas, 
SouthPadrelsland, Daytona, PanamaClty 
Sugarbush, Killlngton, Smuggler'sNotch 
and more! Earn trips, cash! Call 1-800- 
862-7325.
Thanksgiving break! Ride with Colle­
giate Express Connection to Harrisburg, 
King of Prussia, Philadelphia. $46-$49. 
Roundtrip. Movies on board! Call 648- 
5853.
SERVICES
Greeks & Clubs. Raise a cool $1,000.00 
in just one week! Plus $1000 for the 
member who calls! And a free head­
phone radio just for calling 1 -800-932- 
0528, ext. 65.
PICKETS
Need Ramones tickets- 3 Pitt grad 
students need IDs for Friday's show.Will 
exchange IDs for collateral and pay $. 
Male: dirty blonde, blue eyes. Female: 
medium brown, brown eyes. Male: Dark 
brown hair, blue eyes. Please help us in 
this time of need. Call 682-3204.
Something to Sell? Something you Want7 
Let people know In the Classifieds. Send your ad today!
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words...............$5.00 perweek21-50 words............$8.00 perweek50-100 words.......$10.00 perweek
•Classifieds must be paid 
by cash or check before the 
first scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal transfer with a valid account number.
•Classifieds are not subject to discounts applicable to display ads.
•Classifieds reach a wide audience.
All submisions for publica­
tion must be received the 
Thursday before publication 
along with payment.
SEN SaASaT 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
Soccer ends on positive note, team finishes much improved
By GARY WILSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The women’s Boccer team fin­ished up their season this week with a couple of well-played home games. According to coach Julie Shackford, “I’m pleased with the season. We anticipated a difficult season, but we have shown a lot of improvement.”If Tuesday night’s game was pny indication of the level the team has reached, then yes, they have shown a great deal of im­provement. The team shutout newcomer Grove City by a score of 2-0. CMU dominated the ma­jority of the game, but couldn’t manage to put the ball in the net. fl was pleased with our attack. We got over 30 shots. I just would have liked to get a few more goals,” said Shackford.The game opened up surpris­ingly, as Grove City created a good deal of pressure. They kept driving in, only to bounce off the CMU defense, drawing a few questionable penalties early on. However, after only a few min­utes, the tide turned and it be­came quite obvious who the bet­ter team was. CMU managed to control the ball well, but couldn’t formulate any mcgor offense. This seemed to show that they were not used to attacking that much.The CMU midfield managed to keep the ball in Grove City’s end for the better portion of the pe­riod. At one point, the ball did not
cross half for over 10 minutes, giving goalie Trish Henrich some valuable time to catch up on her studies. When Grove City finally managed to clear the ball, the CMU defense would just calmly take back what waB rightfully theirs and boot it back down the field.The only real excitement of the first half came on a couple of Bhots by junior captain Rachel Bourn. Twice in the half, Bourn collected the ball, turned, and fired shots on goal, only to be eaten up by the goalie. According to Bourn, “Overall, we played well and had a lot of good combina­tions. We could have won by more but we couldn’t finish our offen­sive plays. We’ll have a great play but we just can’t finish.” The first half ended 0-0. As Shackford said, “We played a little Bloppy the first half. We made a few mis­takes.”The action did not slow down after the initial goal for quite some time. Aboutl 5 minutes into the half, a shot was fired off the post, commencing an exciting dis­play of confusion. After knocking the ball around for awhile, senior fullback Tracy Howard beat the goalie with a swift shot, but she couldn’t beat the backup goalie. Grove City halfback Bridget Patrick assumed the roll of keeper as shp knocked the ball off the goal-line with both hands. A pen­alty shot was called and Patrick was thrown out of the game. In
the words of the linesman, “She played a hell of a game!” Senior fullback Sonya Chmielnicki was awarded the penalty shot. The Grove City keeper did her best impression of Lot’s wife, as she had no reaction to Chmielnicki’s perfectly placed goal.The rest of the game featured some more exciting action, and plenty of scoring opportunities for the CMU offense. The best opportunity came with about seven minutes remaining. Jun­ior midfielder Jessica Strieker headed the ball over the goalie, only to be broken up once again on the goal-line by the Grove City defense, only this time legally. Jennifer Komon of Grove City made an outstanding save by heading the ball over the cross­bar.Despite a furious series of at­tacks, the game ended 2-0. Over­all, Shackford seemed quite pleased with the team’s effort. “Obviously we dominated the play. It was hard to penetrate because they tightened up on us. All their defenders were hanging around and we just couldn’t get it through.” She later said, “We did have some really good combina­tion play.”The Tartans closed their sea­son Saturday night against Wash­ington University. As Shackford said, they wanted to play them “the same way as we played Emory: win individual defensive battles and play tight man-to-
man defense.”Shackford was equally satis­fied with the team’s overall per­formance this season as she was with their efforts this past week. One of the things that may have hurt the team was having no pre­season. While other schools have a couple weeks of training camp, CMU was permitted only one day,
due to the school’s early start. Shackford is hoping to have the legislation changed to make it fairer for the team.Bourn shares Shackford’s en­thusiasm about the season. “Our record doesn’t really say much. If you ask any of the players, we definitely don’t feel like we’re playing for a losing team.” Bourn
feels the team did a good job over­all in their first season in their division. “We established our­selves as a good team in the UAA We are looking to move up and improve on things next year and to let other teams know that we have a strong program.”The women finished up the sea­son with a record of 6-10-1.
Qimejoinus...
we arethe United U)<ujUnibed Way
Orientation ‘93 
Be A Part Of It!
These students have already been selected as Orientation 
Counselors for 1993.
Mike Adler 
Vivek Agarwal 
Laura Arledge 
Erin Bailey 
David Bauer 
Emily Blough 
John Burns 
Victoria Carlisle 
Jeffrey Chambers 
George Clayton 
Tony DeRoss 
Yazid Fadl 
Jenn Forbes 
Will Gaffey 
Rebecca Henn 
Spencer Hollis 
Fred Horwitz
Sangita Jinwala 
Laura Katen 
Diantha Korzun 
Emmanuelle Lafer 
Kenneth Lambert 
Skye Lee 
Paolo Malabuyo 
Mac Mirchandani 
Jennifer Myers 
Helen Nahouraii 
Kelly O’Donnell 
Chin Oh 
Lynn Pausic 
Vrushali Ranadive 
Moneet Singh 
Niloo Sobhani 
Barbara Thompson
You can be a part of Orientation ‘93, too! Applicants are 
being evaluated on a rolling basis, so apply NOW! Only 30 
spots remain. Pick up an application today in Student 
Affairs (2nd floor Warner Hall) or at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
DALMO
OPTICAL
SAVE ZO%A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The Z3-Checkpoint Eye Exam:Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric profile. The result... confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, and you get Dalmo’s assurance of the highest quality and accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision — In Frames and Contacts:Selection. It’s the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America ... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director 
SQUIRREL HILL 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521*2100

---------------------------------------------------

ygo­.f.c f.obzp­bgigs
V;*i THIS ISSUE: Far

---------------------------------------------------

|k
m
All girls have a pi 
They have' a period 
Boys have erectio 
A pussy has a ho 
At least, that's wl 
told me the tim^<W 
in gramma's attr 
and older th 
hair. I cou 
because my
gramma is.
I got so tj
that night 'in ;the ; attic / \ '
I had to goMownstair^-to t|he'ki!tehen -for. ~à“drink' 
51 3at at th^itable, .'wi.tjfeèij^ ilights
[off and drai 
gramma'3
and she came- iVito 
the lights onI 
A pile of the^cab
up between heir / toes.: *.'That darncatj' she said, 
smiling and looking at me. 
t sat with toy/ fingers tightly locked 
bunder the table .»rid tried to
..................V- . ' . ¦ is*
GRANDMO
jay Orzehowski

---------------------------------------------------

the Farmer's Daughter
Michael O'Sullivan /
ips, kicked pebbles into cloud's
schoolgirls; the farmers wife
in the Swèfet Clover,
Afternoons we slipped into the barn; 
kittens scampered past grazing
cattle; the farmer'ssefi^a cigarette pois
her face wrinkled and worn, hair slipping
from its bun, hunched over tne stove;
as she stirred and stirred
her stew or spread parsley over boiled,
buttered p to ta toes, a splash of cot on settled

---------------------------------------------------

“Let’s go Shannon,” I say.
“Wait a minute, Paul, for God’s sake that’s die tliird time you’ve rushed me. Can’t I 
get a jacket first? Jesus Christ you’re impatient."
“Ifwe hit traffic, I’ll be pissed."
“Fine. When I’m shivering, you’ll give me your clothes.”
Wc walk over to my '72 Impala, which is parked across the street from Shannon’s 
apartment building. Even the sunset can’t make this town or my c.ir look any better, 
the light can’t get dirough the buildings on the horizon. Shannon thinks this place is 
beautiful. She would. I hate the fact that I have to live in her place, even though she’s 
my lady. I feel like a kid. (Ever)' time I approach my car, I wish it were a convertible. 
The only tiling I can do is roll down die windows and dream. Shannon always 
complains.) I drive out to 33 and onto die turnpike; Shannon’s messing with the maps.
“Do you know how to get diere, Paul?”
"Pick a number between one and ten,” I say.
,fWhy? Here’s die Jersey map. Wc need Pennsylvania. Do you have one in this mess 
somewhere?”
I don’t believe in keeping anything clean and she knows that.
"Just pick a number.”
“Why? You pick a number. You’ll never be able to get to your interview tomorrow if wc 
don’t find the map.”
She loves looking at maps. Makes her feel smart.
“Can’t you just pick a number?” I yell at her. ‘Jesus Christ, Shannon, can’t you just do 
what I say? Pick a number!”
“What’s die matter with you Paul? I just thought it was strange diat you wanted me to 
pick a number for no reason.”
“What’s die number?” I say. I’m trying real hard to hold bade I get so frustrated everyday 
with her, like acid burning my chest. She’s great when it comes to being trustworthy and 
honest, but she rarely says anydiing that interests me. She’s convenient.
“Ok, seven. Seven has always been lucky for me. I was born on the seventh.”
“Seven, fine, good.”
“What do you need a number for?”
I don’t answer, instead I roll down die window some more.
“I’m cold.”
‘There’s a jacket in die back.”‘1 don’t see why you have to have the window down all the time, diis heap will never be a 
convertible.”
I pull out a cigarette. There she goes, destroying my vision again. I can see the open 
road, and me in a convertible, just flying. She brings me back down, always.
“And I certainly don’t see why you have to smoke in the car.”
“What arc you my modier? Shut up already, will you please?”
“What die hell’s the matter widi you, Paul?”
“Look I’m not dirillcd about going to your mother’s okay? I’ve had a long day. Just go to 
sleep.” It’s true I had a long day, but mosdy I dreaded riding in the car with her, and 
going to her mother’s.
“I hope you’re not like this when wc get to my mother s. I don’t know why you two can’t 
just—¦”
“Shannon,” I whisper to her, ‘Just shut up, please? Just shut the fuck up.”
I drive for an hour to get to Pennsylvania, over the Scudder Falls bridge and up Route 
Nine on the riverside. I hate long, long Pennsylvania, but I’m having a good dream 
now. I once drove from Harrisburg back to New Jersey and I thought about blowing
Volumeolu
my brains out when I got home. Home never got any closer, and by the time I got 
there, I fell asleep at the wheel right after I parked in front of the apartment.
Sometimes I’m awake but I feel like I’m sleeping and dreaming while I’rn on the road,- 
especially on fast highways in die dark.
Shannon sleeps while I grumble to myself about her. I want her and then I don’t want 
her. She wants me, diough I’ve never been able to figure out why. I don’t want her 
family or friends. They’re a waste of time. Most of all I don’t want her mother. All 
week I’ve been dreaming of diat impossible ditch on the side of the road. It’s a 
recurring theme in my dreams. Every time I try to back out, my car falls deeper.
Finally, I turn off Nine toward Shannon’s mother’s house.
I pull up the driveway and park die car. I give Shannon a shake.
“Wake up, we’re here.”
She doesn’t wake. I give her a pinch on the thigh, open the door and get out.
“Owwww! Damn you.” I can see her glaring at me and sharpening her eyes.

---------------------------------------------------

The worst thing, the worst thing in the world, would be for her to go to sleep and 
leave me with Linda. I’ve devised some escape plans in my head. Wc walk up the path 
to the door. Shannon’s mother comes before wc get in. And there she is, raging 
beauty, and I can’t look her in the face. I get flashes of shame and desire.
“Hello Paul, I see you made it safe and sound for once.”
“Hi, Linda, nice to see you, too.”
“Not a one or two for the road I hope?”
“Mother,” Shannon breaks in.
“Oh, he knows I’m just needling him a little, right, Paul?”
“Whatever.” I say.
I notice right then how much Shannon looks like her mother. Maybe that’s why I stay 
with her. A substitute. But the similarity is only physical. Shannon’s mother is 
strong, and only forty-one to Shannon’s twenty-five. She had been doing aerobics that 
time when I came over and Shannon was out shopping. I’ll admit that she was beyond 
beautiful, and I screamed at myself in my head. She wore a tight body suit, and the 
sweat beaded from her tight muscles. The light was behind her and it shown through 
her blond her and it wisped in her face. She was a goddess. I couldn’t help it. Really.
She could have helped it but she had that grip around my arm and I couldn’t shake it. I 
remember what she whispered in my car as I got up from the bed, feeling sick;
“Is this what you do to Shannon? Lucky girl.”
It was too good.
Shannon goes straight up to the bathroom so I’m left sitting with her in the living room. I 
know she’s just staring me down, I can feel it on the back of my neck. I’m one of those 
people who always leaves a silent room, especially when the other person makes me sweat. 
What am I supposed to say? It1 s been about a year and a half. Am I supposed to just sit 
and talk now?...Howya doin?...What are you working on?...Do you want to fuck?
“Paul, I’m going to tell her. I can’t keep it inside anymore,” she says.
I stare at her for awhile thinking I want to kill her and that I love her. I know she’s serious 
and not playing games. She’s going to ruin my whole scene, and I’m going to pick up and 
start all over again. I guess that wouldn’t be so bad.
‘Tell Shannon I went for cigarettes,” I say.
‘1 have some Marlboros in the kitchen.”
“I need Parliaments.”
I’m out the door before she can say anything. I have that feeling in my gut, like 
something is trying to punch its way out. I want to vomit. Sometimes I lay in bed 
while Shannon’s asleep and I get myself worked up. I go in the bathroom and hang 
over the toilet until something comes up.
I get on the road and blow by the 7-11 on the corner.•o-^o-o
“Seven,” I say, “seven’s all the way down.”
My window is all the way down now, and the air is getting chill and nothing is getting 
closer. But nothing is stopping me. I look at the maps left on the front seat. One 
reads, “Eastern United States.” I take all of them and tlirow them out the window.
Maps arc just a trap to keep you in the country and within boundary lines. My life is a 
trap. I told this to Shannon and she told me I was paranoid with a big P. The tank is 
full and I have all the time that would ever be in front of me.
My old man once said, “As long as you have gas in the car, you’re never lost.”
Exit Seven creeps up. I’ve been thinking about it since I saw the sign for Exit Six, on 
the bottom it read, “Next Exit: 47 Miles.” I am within two now. I hate how they put 
signs up for the exit every half mile, from five miles away. It makes the last stretch an 
eternity. It measures it. I hate all the signs that tell me how far because I always think I 
am getting closer than I really am. I never seem to get closer to where I really want to 
go. I don’t have a clock in the car, and I am bad at estimating how long I have been 
driving. The signs seem to say, “Wrong again, Jack”
I break off the turnpike at Exit Seven, and after I pay the toll, I’m headed toward 
Washington. I wish J, didn’t see the signs. I have the nasty realization that after the 
hundred dollars I cashed from my paycheck is gone, I’m scrapped.
“Now I need a credit card,” I laugh.
I don’t believe in credit. I think I’d run into too much trouble with it. Buying drinks 
and such. I remember Shannon’s gas card though. I have it in my wallet. She gave it to 
me after she wrecked her car, but I never use it.
“Shit, why did I remember that?” I thought.
Now Shannon is in my mind. I was able to keep from thinking about what’s going on 
back at Linda’s. All the while I’d been making plans for myself: to ditch the car and 
hitchhike to Mexico. To get to Seattle and start my own garage. So much had come to 
be while I waited for Seven to come along. Dreams of becoming my own man, dreams 
of meeting pretty girls in Texas, and them digging me. Shannon comes into my mind 
and it’s like she’s a character on a movie screen. She’s only two-dimensional to me, as if 
she completely didn’t matter if I can’t feel her. Just a side show.
“I don’t need her anyway,” I try to convince myself.
I know that is wrong. I imagine myself the tough guy, just leaving town, going my own 
way. I imagine not needing anybody and how easy that would be. But when you’re 
alone there aren’t enough distractions from yourself and I’ll get those feelings in my 
stomach all over again. I should have stuck it out and been a man. My old man might 
have done that; he was a man. But he got into an accident they said and left us, ¡done. 
God knows where I am now. Maybe that ditch on the side of the road.
PENNSYLVANIADoug Smith
Lucky Sevens
The turnpike is only a couple of miles north on Nine. I speed the whole way. After I 
get the ticket, there it is in front of me, long, long Pennsylvania, measured by exits on 
the highway. That’s the only way you can get off. I bet if I keep on driving I’ll keep 
going and there will be more exits and I’ll never get out of Pennsylvania. Each exit is a 
possible world.
I exit on the next Seven, and the next Seven, and I'm getting sucked down into the 
arterial catacomb of roads. Like a moth on a spider web, connected to everything, but 
can’t get anywhere. I know I’ll be on the map somewhere, but maybe I can find a 
place far enough away so I’ll never be found. The gas is running low, and I pull out 
the Mobil card, hoping to see a station soon.•o»o»»
I turn toward the “Harrisburg and West” ramp, and speed onto the straightaway going 
on and on. Night has come down heavily, there are no lights on the road. The 
arching trees make the highway seem like a tunnel to me now, sloping downward, 
pushing me toward the void miles below. I don’t mind that so much as I can’t see 
through to the end of it. I don’t know where I’m going.

---------------------------------------------------

; ;'V :*V':YiQvi.tiK<?ci.: /:*y.\;:’-f.;.{•'\\ '
•.* \ Little bit/.;V-.' j \ V.\*;:
•. *• *.• \ KthinK -Wo t'o-stiJY.at • / *.; .*
.* tpaight.’We woh't.getto/ybur. oar;unti( tWor- * / 
¦’ thlfty.oftHrfee JTl^y^pe•/., v •' • ! • '.*•*
i^ona-didn/t-say ^nyltiing.'- '• / . ;
’• *. "Yog Kfeaf me? I said)—*; ! \
.\"Yeah> pkay.". *. *• * '• *• *. ! \ * • •
. She was quiet. Frank was-afraid hd # ’ 
sounded like he was trying to get her irf bed. In- 
his mind he repeated the words he'd said to her 
to judge how they sounded: "I think we may 
have to stay at Guy's tonight..."
But the thought of them sleeping in Guy's 
living room excited him. He wasn't so old, and 
he was still thin. His face was long and strange- 
looking, but not actually ugly. Perhaps she 
would feel grateful to him for rescuing her car.
He imagined her asleep on the sofa.
"We don't have to stay there," he said 
against his better judgment. "I mean, if you 
really need to get home. I'm just afraid I'll fall 
asleep at the wheel, that's all."
She said nothing for a moment. "No, I 
guess it's okay."
Frank felt a tremor of adrenaline. Did that 
mean she wanted to sleep at Guy's? He had 
offered her a way out, and she didn't take it.
Maybe she was only worried about him 
crashing the car. Still, she would sleep there.
Suddenly he asked himself: could she be 
afraid of him? A pang of fear struck him. He 
hadn't meant to scare her. What was he 
thinking, dragging her upstate to sleep at a 
stranger's house?
Perhaps she wasn't scared. She had agreed 
to go along, after all.
He yawned and behind him he heard Mona 
lightly snoring. He wrestled with the possible 
consequences for the rest of the drive home.
At quarter to one the VW bug pulled into 
Guy's driveway in Blandburg. Guy got out of 
the car, opened the garage door and pulled the 
tarp off of Frank's red Ford pickup. Frank hadn't
sfeèn it:in çix'nioflt+rs,:.; • siipcô }W-tiao-lëft { •**.
B l.arç e) b'ù rg'f ô r • Ratf § !•. Guy ¿tuok-his-head'• /i'nttftKe'backSeat’-qhciv •’ beamed,'."Hey/ladyJ ; ’. •/ / s YVe'çé heref" • ; ;
_¦ Mona jerked awake and 
gasped. • \ ‘
"Why don't you cut’that out,"
Frank said.
"What?" Guy said with his palms up.
"Get your bag, Mona," Frank said.
"You two have a safe ride, okay?" Guy 
said, pulling out his keys.
"I thought you said we could stay here," 
Frank said.
"You kidding? Bertha'd have a cow if I let 
you and her sleep here."
"God damn it, Guyl I'm exhausted!"
"What? It's a two hour drive. Big shit."
Frank looked back at Mona. She walked up 
the driveway towards the truck.
"God damn it."
"What do you want me to tell you? Drive 
her to her car. Hell," Guy said quietly, "I figured 
you'd want to drive her."
"Shut up," Frank said. Frank pulled ”his 
keys from his pocket. "Thanks for keeping my 
truck."
"Yeah." Guy unlocked the front door and 
went inside.
Frank walked up to the garage and opened 
the door for Mona, then got inside and warmed 
up the engine. He pulled out of the garage and 
stopped. Frank opened the door, hesitated, 
then slammed it again.
"He can close his own God damn garage 
door," he said and pulled out into the street.
Frank drove out of Blandburg and headed 
north towards Scranton. Mona dozed again and 
he envied her. A half an hour later, still 
sleeping, she slid down the seat and leaned 
against his shoulder. When he passed a car,
Frank was careful to keep his right arm still, 
turning the wheel with his left hand while 
letting it slide through his right.
Strangely, he discovered a bar right on the 
highway. In the middle of a forest of black 
trees, the bar's neon sign glowed: "Chip's." 
Impulsively, Frank turned into the parking lot.
"Mona," he said softly. She didn't respond. 
He shook her knee and she jumped awake, 
pulling back against the passenger door.
"What are you doing?" she asked.
"Nothing! I just wanted to see if you 
wanted to get a beer."
"A beer? Right now?"
"Yeah, well, you know. Just a beer." He 
glanced at the bar. Three or four cars were 
parked in the lot. "I think it's going to be closing 
time pretty soon."
"No, that's okay."
"Sure? I'll buy."
"No. Thanks."
Frank nodded and got out of the truck. He 
didn't have much desire for a beer if she wasn't 
coming along, but now he was obligated.
He walked into Chip's and ordered a beer at 
the bar. There were two men at the bar and one 
at a table, but the place was small, so it looked 
half full. He hoped that if he stayed there long 
enough, Mona would get bored and come 
inside.
As he finished his beer, he felt guilty for 
leaving her alone in the truck. Maybe she was
ordered ano-. ;' ar 
come and find h dr 
but he was afraid! fo 
mad at him fori:- he 
hurried back out-* tn 
awake and upni • er 
"Sorry," he f-ld 
long I was."
"What's this at
she held a po='; ^ 
Tower. "It was in' B 
Frank smil^1 tai 
"Someone gave
years ago. I 
this woman. Su; >e 
traveler. I mean _ & 
but just in the U> C 
Frank backed* t 
and pulled onto It 
when I wasstayfl jl 
back from Par‘s f 
sort of hated W* jj 
piqued my ¡nter' ? 
ended up in B>3 •la 
years."
He saw M°'; ?
proud that she" B’
"Susan gave 0« f 
my truck as a f 
reminder. So & f 
went. I think the 
want to find ¡l- ,| 
Mona react’ fh

---------------------------------------------------

Ü
îl
m
!!
¡¡u
i ,»
li 
! j
about 
°me inside? He 
and hoped she would 
drank half of the beer 
wouldn't come and get 
her all alone; so he 
f&uck. Mona was wide 
seat.
didn't realize how
. ^sked. In her hands 
"a Picture of the Eiffel 
; 0Ve c°mpartment."
• tarte^d the truck.
91 about two and a half 
; ^,in Philadelphia with 
1 - Sa real world 
^ >n a lot of places, 
Canada a little bit."
, e bar's parking lot 
™ay. “So anyway, 
‘her she'd just come 
Ver shut up about it. I
, pG8.’ ^Ut S^e SOrt^ Paris. Somehow I and saved up for two
¦¡J"? him. He felt 
; "Y'nterested in him. 
F^rd and I kept it in 
ai'Vou know? A 
^onths ago I finally 
nu in my bag if you
his ^a9 on the floor
• . ' • ’. arid '
• searched for the menu. / 
’ "It's-in the front flap."
She opened the flap and brought out the 
menu. Frank glanced at it. It was cheap paper- 
coated plastic, like any diner menu, but it was 
in French. Mona slowly scanned the pages. The 
menu suddenly seemed exotic to Frank.
"Anyway, I got back about two weeks ago."
"Really?" Mona asked. "God, I've never 
been anywhere. How long were you there for?"
"Six months. I stayed with a friend of 
Susan's."
"Wow," she said. "I've never been 
anywhere."
Frank felt like he'd lived a thousand years 
longer than Mona. He was wise, experienced, 
and weary.
"I'm tired," he said. "That beer's putting 
me to sleep."
"You going to be okay?"°
"Yeah. It should only be another half hour."
They reached route 81 and followed it to 
the exit Mona had taken. A mile from the 
highway they found the supermarket. The 
store's lights were all out and the parking lot 
was clear except for Mona's green Dart.
"Oh thank God," she said. "I was afraid 
they'd tow it or something."
Frank could barely keep his eyes open. He 
parked beside the Dart.
"I need to sleep," he said. "I'm sorry. I'm 
going to have to sleep first."
Mona looked alarmed. She pointed out the 
windshield at her car and said, "But it's right 
here! Can't you just fix it first so I can go 
home?"
Frank shook his head. He probably could.
h.er .
pleadings were 
waking him up, but he 
wanted to sleep beside her 
and he hoped she would at least nap 
in the passenger seat.
His wrist watch read eleven o'clock when 
he woke up. The supermarket parking lot was 
full of cars. Mona was not in the truck. Frank 
was seized by the fear that she had left while he 
was sleeping, but her car was still parked next 
to his. She was sitting on the hood.
Frank got out of the truck and said, "Good 
morning!" Mona had dark circles under her 
eyes.
"Didn't you sleep?" he asked.
She shook her head. He was crestfallen.
She had been too scared of what he might do 
to her in the night. He was an old man to her, 
and he felt humiliated.
"Get up," he said. "I have to check under 
the hood."
Mona moved to the driver's side and 
watched him. He nodded and said, "It's the fan 
belt all right. There might be a gas station 
around here somewhere."
"No, wait," she said, and ran around to the 
trunk. She pulled out a package of three fan 
belts. "Are these them?"
Frank blinked. "You already have some?"
She handed him the belts. "I guess. I don't 
know howto put them on. My dad puts all this 
stuff in the trunk. He's a mechanic."
In fifteen minutes, Frank had replaced the 
fan belt. Mona started the car and it gave a 
healthy growl.
"Oh, thank God!" she shouted. She let the
car run in park and got out to shake F rank's 
hand.
"Thank you so much. I don't think I would 
have gotten the car back if it wasn't for you."
Frank shrugged. "No big deal."
Mona reached into her car and took a pen 
and an old paycheck envelope. "Here's my 
address in New York," she said. "If you're ever 
there and you need a place to stay, you can find 
me."
She shook his hand again. "Thank you so, 
so much." She got back in her car and backed 
out of the space. She waved to Frank, and he 
raised his hand. She pulled out of the parking 
lot and turned right towards the highway.
Frank sat in his truck and looked at the 
address on the envelope. She lived in Ozone 
Park, in Queens. He thought of following her 
there and winced.
On the passenger seat was the Paris 
postcard. He picked it up and wrote:
Dear Mona.
I thought you'd like this postcard. I hope 
you got back to Now York okay. I think I 
will go hack to Paris soon. Maybe if 
your car breaks down again I'll come 
and rescue you.
Love,

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

by Christopher Leone
. ’ "Who-were you visiting?'1 . !
• . ’ ; "My boyfriend," she*said, smiling. This
V • | “ painecj+iim, 2nd he wa§ startled thq,t it <jid. Ig
• ’ ’¦ held his grin so it wouldn't falfer, but-he felt like
• ' , ] a mannequin., >_ •
¦ _ "That's nice," he said. He was acting-like an’
. idiot. The girl couldn’t be-more than twenty-
pne, twenty-two. It was ridiculous to thirrk. he,_ * 
. . ’ could approach her. He decided that he qnly •
• Tfelt pcotective.of her/like a fatFier,.and relaxed a’ 
"little?
’ SheTaced.out the window again. The rain"
wasjetting ups but it was getting dark. JHee *
’ ¦ studied ttie’girl from an angle. She .had
beautiful Jiair, deep brown and curly. He . ¦
¦ , \ ¦ wondered if her boyfriend was good to her.
She was sweet. Ig thought of s man he*hadn't‘ 
^thought of in years, Mr: Throckton.who .owned*
’ ¦ ’a gas station in Texas.Trank had worked for 
.* * ’him fora few)months when Frank Was in his
mid-thirties. Thrdckton'&wtfe brqughrthirrf hi£ 
.lunch and she Often had a black eye*or a bruise. 
.•She was probably ¿retfy before then.* He’.feared/
. for the’ girl gn the bus*, traveling alone across ¦ •
.* *. v the ^tate.tlj see+i§r boyfriend.- .
.* ’¦ I ¦ ' • "What'« your na me?*". h*e. asked .her.* ’ •"
I ’. -She turned and said,."Mona."’- 
’• *. /"MoraawhSt?" ¦ V .*.
*.•* ’• . "I^Ona*Tether." # .
. "I'm Frank Coffee." He held out his hand 
. I ’ a’nd.sher shook it.’"You a’fways travel by.b’us like 
; t > this?." hp asked.'
• • ’"No, never. Actually, I started*to drive.out .
. ’• ’ , fiere’but my.car-broke-down in about an hour •
. . artdahalf." ;
_ "What kind of car?" ‘ *.
*Dodge Cfart.Sixfy-eighU".
¦. ¦ /'My father’owxied one of those, Ithink
1970'. Kind of'old Jo-bQdrivjng tp Pittsburgh an'd
¦ ’ . -back." ¦• . ' ¦ Mona shrugged. "I.§uess. My parents. . ¦ ewanted me to Qorfie'home but kook the bus [
. * - * *.nst6afl."B* ¦’ ‘ .
• .Frank was amazed. "Ydu left yourtar
• • \ .’ thece?"* . . ’*
’ • i ’."Ye^fiv vvtiat Was'l going Vo do?’M9 RSfe'nt^’
wouldn't come and get me. I couldn t drive it* anywhere."
" What's the matter with' it?".* ' '•
"l.don-t know. I'don'.t'kQow anything,about 
cSrs.1t was just—thfe engine just.gfit re'allyhot!. 
Sp’l pulted'over artd let it cool down^butthe 
red light just kept going on. So I just drove'it. 
real slow'’and Jeftit.in a parking lot."
"Did the /an belt come off’maybe?"
. She shrugged again. ’ ’ ¦ ¦ .
"So you'ie jus't going to leave it there?".
• "l-don'f know." * ¦*. ¦'
. FrSnk sat Back in hi5 seat. He revered cans
and rtdisturtfed him to think-one was • 
abandoned out there somewhere. Especially an 
old tough car like a Dart. Strange tbat Mona's 
parent^were so indifferent.
. "Where'-d your car. break down?" he asked.
- "Right outside Scranton. I left it at a '. .
supermarket and^a guy gave me a lift into '
toWh." '
¦ "Can.l see the map?" he asked. She handed 
'.him the map, and’again he smelled her clean.
• scent.aShe pointed to a spot oji route Sf.southo
¦ of Scranton. Her car yv'as about two hoyrs fro’cn
Blandburg.* . '.
He refolded the map a'nd said; "You know, [ 
-I'm going to Blandtiurg. It's not that far. Fcould* # 
prpb^bly fix your car." *. . *
. • She shook her.head. "Oh no. No, that's ’ . 
ok3y.". ¦ * •* ¦ ’
"Ncrrealfy. It soijnds like your fan 6eltjust. 
/carneoff." * . * * ¦ .
i"No, it's okay." •
- "Hpw ar&yo'u going to get your car?" g •
. "I doTh't know. Maybe nay parents will drive 
’me.'k • ! . ¦ , ’ •
. ¦' "Look, if ycru get off’in PhiJiideJphia, you *.
¦ egg get a.ride to.Blandburg Wif.|\ me. My friepd 
Guy is cjQing’tq pick me up. Tti^n w*e-driv6 ove/ * 
to Scranton a.nd fix your car."
\ •"How far is It?" • | *
. "Hour.flour and S half friaybe. U's^re’ajly *
' qot.that fat." *
. *¦ Mdna frowned in thought. * /
; ’ * 'TYoa’can get your ticket ctiange'd," Frank ’•
said. . .
"Ÿou'll get a refund.'1 . \ ¦ ¦ * . *
. "Well, okey," Mona said.-"Vou’really clon't 
hâve fo do this,"’ ’
. "No,*l'd like to." . / . . ’ .
. Thé1 rain outside^had stopped. Mona’lea'hed 
back ahd feJf asleep.irank reached up ind ’ _ .
turned t>ut her seat light: ’. ’ ' * 1
. • Thrêe hqurs’ô Tater, they arrivecl in 
PhlladalphicTand Mona’got a refui\d on her
tjcke’t to-Neyv Yorl<. Guy found them outside 
and b'rought-tfiem to his-r'otten yell’ow VW bug?
"It's"been acting ûp agaig," Guy^ said^"Thrs 
car'll goto Hellwhenit dtes." . . * na t
"Fuel line again?." Frank asked. 
.."idon't’know that stuff." He tu’rned ttf • • 
Mona. "I hqte cars." \ ,
¦Mona shrugged and nodded.. . • •
"Parley voo English?"’Guy asked. • . •
"SHe's from Néw York." ’ ’ *.
."Ôh." Guy wiggled hfe eyeBrows^at hçr. ¦
She lcoked.'doi/vn at the.grOund'and pretended 
not to notice. . ... ^ —
"Aw," cSuV said, "I thought we had*^ live
. on i herç Coffee." . * . * . '
"Leave her alone, for Chri’s.t's sakp." Frank 
hated (iu^. They had.worked together in 
Blandburg siÇ rnontHs befôre, delivering water 
Coglersto'otfice buildings all oyer the county.
, Guy.hated driving st> Frank was always at.the 
wheel, listening tcrGuy'cpmplain about hi^ w'fe 
and’hiffcaV. --------
. • Mona sq.uee^e'd ioto fhe back of the WV, • . 
-and-Guy sat in the passenger éea't. ^ • •
•"You’don>mind driving, do you?" he saicl... 
, [ It was after eleven. Frank.'feped aloncj the .
¦ highway and y&wîied’Guy's heaii lolled to one 
side and bobbed withnhe b'umps irf the/oad.
"You awalje back there?" frank gaid • \ / 
quietly? ' * * * . '
"Yeah.">She had a geotlp, pretty voice. * .
' Suddenly he wished s.h’e'woulctkiss th'e bacl^of 
his ciçck. . . *.•*’.
’ # ‘"It vvonf^ betoo long," hé said. "Anéther . * 
' hour." * . I
. ’ "dkayj."' * • • *.

---------------------------------------------------

Wrong Cha nnels
Sleeping in the car ain’t no fun. I’ve been doing it night on night for awhile. I can’t 
decide what to do. I’m in Nebraska from exiting at Sevens and I think I might end up 
crawling. I’m starting to tliink that I might be making a huge circle and I’m gonna end 
up back at Linda’s doorstep somehow.
I might set a real course, to get Linda off my mind. I keep remembering how Shannon 
asked me about the scratches on my back. They were Linda’s. I made up a story.
I continue on my course and I'm sixty-five miles out of Lincoln, and there the road stops 
leading me downward. Nothing to do here but think. Even if I wanted to drive off a 
cliff, I couldn’t. I couldn’t even run into a building. I'd pull off into some field and just 
keep on going.
I can see Lincoln in the distance, and I try to imagine what will happen when I get there. 
Maybe I would get a job and everything would be okay. Maybe I’d meet somebody 
connected and set myself up in Mexico, on the shore, run a fishing boat, sell hats on the 
beach. Or maybe I could find someone to trust, or a friend like I used to have. That 
wouldn’t be so bad.
The radio is the white noise I need to keep my head on, but now it seems to filter out of 
the background. I don't know the station so I listen for the song. The jockey comes on 
and says “Here's one from Smokcy Robinson and the Miracles on Oldies Ninety-Eight," 
May-be you wanna give me kiss-es sweet.
Perfect. I dig Motown. Fitting song.
Ooh, if youfeel like giv-ing me, a life-time ofde-vo-tion, I second that e-mo-tion.
“You got it wrong, Smokcy,” I say, “Nothing, is ever gonna make me stay.’’
I flip through the static until voices come up. Commercials. Lincoln still in the distance, 
nobody on the road. The voices cloud my head enough so I don’t have to think. But then 
I can’t stand being told where to go on the weekend, where to buy things, and what beer 
to drink anymore, so I flip the dial.
“Welcome to the gospel hour. Tonight’s question comes from the Book of Job: Why 
do good people suffer in a just universe?”
Gospel won’t do cither. I’ve given up on that. Besides God probably isn’t too happy 
with me. I find a frequency with a good dear static signal and leave it there as I 
survey the blackness all around.
Sundown Motel, Lincoln
I find the cheapest motel I can find on the outskirts of town, and I’m happy not to be 
sleeping in the car. I might even come to call this place home. The Sundown Motel 
was off the highway on the way into Lincoln, and I didn’t see anything of the sort as I 
cruised into town, so I turned around and came back. The neon sign that says “Vacancy'’ 
in the window throws flickering reds into the otherwise dizzying space 
above and it lights my way to the door. I look up at the sky in Nebraska and I want 
to fall down.
I open the door and ring the bell at the desk. Nobody appears for awhile and I’m 
getting impatient. Finally a man in a white tank top comes out of a door behind the 
desk. His glasses are thick and black, which matches the color of his unruly hair and 
mustache. This man is pale white, a ghost, with hair stretching up his arms from 
around liis armpit, and flowing from back to front.
‘Just one?” he asks. A mouth has appeared just under the bristles of his mustache.
“Yes."
“Strange."
“Do you have a room?”
“Hourly or daily rate?”
“Daily.”
“Hmmin” The man turns around and studies the cubby holes along the wall. “Yeah, 
14B around the corner.”
He holds up the key. I go to take it.
“Twenty bucks. And sign this release form."
“I might be staying more that one day."
“Don’t matter. Pay as you go. Sign the form.”
It absolves the motel and the owner of all liability for occurrences on motel grounds 
and holds guests responsible for damages. I sign it, wondering what would be the 
“occurrences on motel grounds." I take the key from the man.
"Bar across the street’s open till two. You still got a few hours to grab a drink. And 
from the looks of you, you need one.” The man turns toward the door. “Night pal.”
I drive around to my room and the minute I get in the door, I flop down on the bed.
I stare up at the cracks in the ceiling and I’m able to see animals and faces that the 
cracks make. I notice every detail about the spindly lines that run across the plaster.
I focus my attention on one crack and see nothing else. I follow the line of the crack 
all across the ceiling, past the water stains, down the corner and the side wall, and it 
disappears somewhere behind the mirror that I find myself looking into.
I sec my face in the mirror and say “Who arc you and what arc you doing here?”
This might be the land of “what am I doing here?"
I grew haggard from the trip, not enough to eat, not enough sleep, endless driving. I 
can’t prevent the word “older" from entering my mind. I know I’m not a kid. The 
mirror reflects a man back at me, a resdess one that might die real young and I’m not 
digging that feeling.
I fool myself into believing I have the energy to get up and go out. I pretend to brush 
my hair and tidy myself up by splashing some cold water on my face. I check out my 
wallet and see the dwindling bills, a twenty and some ones, but I bolt out the door 
anyway and head toward the bar.
Another Turn
She is sitting across the bar and I can’t help looking at her. My eyes are tired and I 
can’t see her that well, but I know she is beautiful. I keep swilling beer, but I’m 
trying to make it last. She hasn’t looked at me yet, at least I don’t think so. What 
could I say? I’m not ready for this. But maybe, as I sharpen my eyes to see the lines 
in her face, she’s seen some of what I have. Her brown hair is straight and long. It 
probably reaches all the way down her back but I can’t see from where I’m sitting.
The bartender puts a drink in front of me and says “A whiskey from the lady on the 
comer down there." He passes me a note written on a napkin: Tve been on the road 
too, Jersey Boy.
My plates. That feeling in my stomach returns. I go over.
“Let’s go." I say.
Maybe this is the possible world that’s possible for me. Get on the road and just keep 
going. All the answers are down the line. We get into my car and hit the highway, 
windows down.

---------------------------------------------------

If Only She Hadn't Been Born
mÉtmchmé^a 
il wm&àdi hi¥t mmiemé
your atfög
« M ÉMI 
wife mm ripfiiiig 
fef * |»öpfc MmmitBg 
it mm Èm «m» stimi 
tenta® «Iteli 
lisiefÄidii:,
Yew «feMigs Iiivti mmmsrn
émrn, fm Amt mmÉk
«»rei i« li &§ &ä 
MmI iS A§ taf
PW MB « »Bf %ft 
¥«#«§«
WtlpBfw^
titfj 1 iaüP dm
W?^m %>»%$ wwi» -fWmmwM
WW%®

---------------------------------------------------

-s'' p.V ¦ ' I (
/
U ARTE R /L Y
[$j L/—,
l (AH’)
oW Jn^^v> V-A^T Vt '
I®*. 1$S*C> *b # lf‘47^
„ Off«!*., W>6o,R«»4 5o
Dear Editor Of The }fi*gj
<#
1
i. am an Oldjiafr'ST 88 years with: not alott of.tir« to SfcLd-arc^icnd 
with you, jw&irigas how I ccruld Dm p Dead frtan anything any minute j'' 
even tteini somebody shouts ter loud in my Direction. Tbu probibly'tao*'> 
the boyfreind of Mra. Crackel, your falthfuH corispondent. 
nay the reason I am writnig to T o u is to tell you that I do not 
/how why Mra. Cracksl (retired) should shoulf raori3ent The County. Some 
In your ¡nag. She do ¦ not'know ahit.Balsive me, as her Ss-boyfraiiidj. I 
can tell you. That Old Dame is so seemile aeenile she caTl.a ma San in, 
her lettres, wh era as my raal nans is "flose San,* I would be hcncssd^io 
be your new corisp ondint from here .Watch it you do no t say,
^Slse I will send my aew n ewn new Glrlfreind Marge (JitejgrTo»'^ retired 
,to co roe there to glsg__on to or fucking dx^gL-pgtep is
KJ&T U4 V^^W/
¿*=^ 'TVfe------.
\'p wut. lb P^ki Tort ovi p.l Cf-I f°e Ce*»TWt<<*?)
iovt uv.e u»vfj---------- vy iwe ©n>
TNjfe.v.f.''^12- fotJf :Mi^ee. vp^KU- n ,0p. v.pMJ'ilfc A fiSCfc ^ ^V./ f®w 'I1,1®' .
i iii.;E.vWboffc/? feiSVrtkpi DKJife 
"*" ' dofffctP^oR-fcS (/*.£ L Si>^
PvGoG ovt ^0T)LO
T o urs In His Precious ?lood? 
H o se Man ’-To olley (Active]r*

---------------------------------------------------

Countd<P
to the Future
kar*neg*e

---------------------------------------------------

editor's first words:
I have to admit, I once called the Jean Dixon psychic hotline to find out what the future held for me. I got the 
same answer every sucker who spends a buck forty-five a minute found out — I will experience great love (dealing 
with 1,000 pick up lines a night at single bars), I will be praised for my work (my mother will stop calling my position 
"middle management"), and I will straighten out all my financial problems (collection agencies will lose my home 
address). Face it, sometimes it's not worth even being a little curious about these things.
The moral of the story is don't search blindly for information about the future . Look at what is unfolding 
around you — not at the heading "psychics" in your local yellow pages. Science and technology have progressed be­
yond the conventional microwave. Genetic diseases may soon be eradicated, artificial limbs and organs will enable the 
handicapped to finally lead active lives, computers will make our lives even more efficient, and who knows — we may 
finally make contact with "other beings" (although some have already claimed to).
The heart of the future lies at CMU. With its advanced art, science, and technology programs, our University is 
sure to be the best contender as we race towards the known and the unknown. The students that come through this 
"learning mill" will someday build the brave new world and in so doing will contribute to the nature of education at 
this school. This is one prediction Jean Dixon has no ability to make....
'hfaMu.
— Marni Borek, co-editor
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page 3 A Meeting with the Future 
page 4-5 Virtual Reality or Realty? 
page 6-7 Scenes from a modern campus 
page 8-10 2042: A Fictional Excursion 
page 11 Future Exploration of the Mind 
...and what about the artist?
A

---------------------------------------------------

Two years ago at Homecoming, I interviewed Norma Shea Langworthy, a woman who graduated from CMU’s 
Drama Department in 1940. She told me how things had changed from 1940 to 1990 — how there were no graduate 
programs at all; how scandalous it was that she had spent 15 minutes in the "boys'" dorm; and how the craziest thing 
anyone ever did, even those kooky CFA students, was smoking a cigarette or having a beer.
Hopefully, when I return to CMU in 2042, and a nice little freshman woman interviews me for The Tartan, she 
and I will be able to see similar change in other areas. Hopefully, when I tell her about the military's discrimination 
against gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, and about the person who painted "gas the queers" on the Fence, she'll be ap­
palled. No, I take that back. I hope she laughs, because in her day, fighting over sexual orientation will be laughable, as 
will obsessing about differences in gender, race, religion, and all sorts of other stuff.
And, hopefully, that will be the end of that discussion and we can move on to other, more fun things. Like rock 
and roll. I'll have to tell her about Nirvana, of course, how they paved the way for all of my favorite music to hit the 
airwaves. I'll tell her what a pain it was to have twelve-year-olds liking my favorite bands, but how it was kind of cool, 
too. I'll tell her about MTV back when they still played videos at least some of the time, and I'll explain to her the idea 
of moshing, which she'll either think is extremely odd, or laughably tame, depending on the specific directions music 
ends up moving in.
I'll tell her about the return of the '60s, and she'll laugh when I say, "Yes, I really did wear flannel shirts and big 
black shoes, and some of my friends had pink hair." We'll sit in the newly-completed University Center (of course, I'll 
tell her the stories about that), and she'll ask me what we did for fun. So” I'll tell her about fraternity parties and PHI 
and Super Saver movies, and she'll agree with me that, really, there is nothing to do in Pittsburgh.
I'll tell her how we all hated Wean, Hunt Library, and Donner because we thought they were ugly and dated- 
looking, and she'll tell me that she and her friends feel the same way about Resnik, the West Wing, and the GSIA 
building. She'll think that the way we do buggy was really strange, because they'll have devised some ingenious 
method of doing it, probably involving laser beams or superconductors. I'll tell her that we did, in fact, carry paper 
and actual books, and how, though everyone did a lot of stuff on computers, my friends and I made fun of the kid 
who took his freshman psychology notes on a laptop.
I'll tell her about the male-female ratio, I'll describe the Yard's nachos and blender drinks, I'll talk forever about 
how much fun my friends and I had living in Donner freshman and sophomore years (honest). She'll tell me about 
her parties and hanging out with her friends and how they all order out for flavored seaweed chips and drink carbohy­
drate-enhanced coffee when they have to stay up all night.
It will be cool to talk to my twenty-first century counterpart. Of course she won't be able to understand every­
thing that I try to explain, and I'm sure that by the time I'm 69,1 won't understand why the kids insist on wearing 
those totally impractical buckets as hats and going around saying that they just can't dance to the Red Hot Chili Pep­
pers' music. But I have no doubt that we will connect. No matter how big the generation gap seems, people mostly go 
through the same things — people always fight with their parents, fall in love with great books, and change their 
minds.
Sure, things are always going to change, but probably not as much as we expect.
a jneeting with the 
u t u r L
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor

---------------------------------------------------

By JAMES ALTUCHS
Research Fellow lor StutBo ol Creative Inquiry
We want a new drug. A drug that allows us to breathe life into our daydreams. We want to be able to fly and go 
against the laws of physics without recrimination. Technology whispers to us that anything and everything is possible. 
My dream is this: to live inside a virtual reality (VR) which constantly changes according to my needs and desires 
while my "real" body is fed, supported intravenously for years, and then eventually withers away inside some VR 
chamber in the so-called real world. This reality must be so strong, so engaging, that I must never miss the paltry 
reality which I lived in prior to entering the VR chamber.
Wait a second, you might say. That's sick. And maybe it scares you that someone might think this way. Maybe 
you might think I'm kidding. OK hotshot, you say, go ahead and do it. Live inside a VR chamber for the rest of your 
life.
Only thing is, I know that there is no way for me to do this anytime soon. Despite the predictions of movies like 
Lawnmower Matt and Total Recall, the science of virtual reality is still a long way off from providing people with fully 
interactive, immersive experiences. There are several reasons for this. First of all, what makes you think that the world 
you inhabit is real?
For starters, the five senses play a strong role. Vision, combined with an inuitive understanding of the physics 
that works around us, provides us with important clues that the world we see around us is, in fact, the real world. For 
the reality detective - touch, hearing, smell, and even taste, also provide us with tools to test out any reality which is 
only posing as our reality or even a distant cousin of our reality.
From a purely simulation point of view then, a VR system must incorporate some knowledge of how the 
senses are transmitted through the body and how to best recreate those transmissions through technological 
means. Current VR systems (for instance, the Virtuality game which passed through Pittsburgh a few 
months ago), simulate 3-D vision by letting the user wear a helmet with two TV screens attached near the

---------------------------------------------------

eyes. A sensor above the user's head determines which direction the user is looking and a computer calculates the 
image that should appear on each screen. The simple turn of a head could potentially require millions or even billions 
of calculations for the computer to determine the new images that should be displayed on the TV screens. Fine. Com­
puters are fast and they are getting faster. Current VR systems have very slow graphics when compared with the speed 
by which humans process the visual information around them. However, with computers doubling in speed every year 
it remains conceivable that computers can catch up to us before long.
Things become more difficult, however, when you want to actually put things inside your world. For instance, 
a human body. The movement of a human body is a very difficult object to model, what with our hundreds of bones, 
muscles, tissues, etc. all interconnecting and moving simulataneously throughout the world. VR systems currently give 
the user a fake body, one with only a few joints, if any, that make it easier to model. Again, though, over the years, as 
computers become faster and graphics systems become more sophisticated, it will become increasingly possible to 
model the body and all of its components as well as other objects that are just as difficult to currently model.
Since vision has proved to be such a difficult sense to implement, the other four senses have been pretty much 
ignored by VR designers. Smell and sound may not be so difficult. By maintaining a huge library of smells and sounds 
inside the VR system and releasing them according to the virtual environment the user finds himself in, a VR system 
may be able to simulate these senses. But the other two senses remain a problem. How do you simulate the senses of 
touch or taste? First we would need an exact understanding of what electrical signals pass along the nerves from our 
fingertips to our brain and from our taste buds to our brain. Then we Would need to implement this inside the com­
puter.
Still, though, as computers get more powereful I expect that these problems will perhaps become more readily 
solved. So should I be making my last good-byes and getting ready to enter a VR tank and enter the worlds of virtual 
reality forever? Not so fast. Suppose I arrive in a visually amazing VR world, filled with smells, feelings, sounds, and 
sights that I have never experienced before. There's one more thing that I would like and that's virtual companion­
ship. Where are the people in this VR world?
Here is where the study of artificial intelligence steps in. Artificial intelligence (AI), pioneered by two CMU 
professors, Herb Simon, and the recently deceased Allen Newell, as well as MIT professor Marvin Minsky, is the study 
of how we can simulate human behavior and human thought processes inside the computer. Forty years ago, the 
mathematician Alan Turing posed a simple test for future AI researchers. Sit in one room and type questions into a 
console. In another room is either a human or a computer typing back answers to your questions. If you cannot tell if 
the respondent is a computer or a human and if the respondent is, in fact, a computer, then that computer has passed 
the Turing test.The Turing test has never been passed with any degree of success but VR poses us a much more complicated 
Turing test. Right now let's make a little list. Imagine all of the abilities a computer-simulated human should have in 
order for it to fake you out arfd convince you that it is real. Here are some of the things that AI programs cannot do 
with sufficient regularity although they have made great gains in the past twenty years. Recognize your image, under­
stand your voice, understand the meanings behind a short story or a poem, laugh at a good joke, or cry when hearing 
a tragic story. And these things would be just the basics of creating a simulated and believable VR citizen. This is not a 
criticism of AI and again, there are AI programs out there that are doing amazing things. However, in order for me to 
agree to spend the rest of my life in a VR chamber there has to be some pretty significant successes in this field and I 
feel this is where potential VR researchers should be spending their time. If for no other reason 
than to provide me with a new drug.

---------------------------------------------------

1. The new Forbes Gallery 
2. Parking Garage Extension 
3. PowerPlant
4. Skibo, still there.
5. Welcoming Center
6. Warner Hall, only taller.

---------------------------------------------------

ct's Vision
7. Solar Panels 
8. The New Library 
9. The Fine Arts Expansion 
10. Gym Complex, with air bubble addition.
11. Now Property of CMU.
12. Ponner has been replaced, thank god.

---------------------------------------------------

excursion
Writer's note: I thought that a short story would be better than a grim tech report in predicting how the field of robotics will affect CMU in the fiiture (Ha! The editors o/'Karnege didn't know that I was also an English major and have long had lame and unfulfilled 
pretensions towards literary creativity). Below is a short visit into the slightly unfamiliar life of an atypical CMU student in the year 2042.
The middle of April was Ernie Jones' favorite time of the spring semester. It's not that he suffered from seasonal depression, because winter didn't depress him, but the fresh air that April brought always made him a little bit more extroverted and considerably more annoying to those around him who were trying to get some serious work done.
"She's lucky I'm coming to class at all," said Ernie to nobody in particular, "on such a beautiful day as this."
The lanky would-be sculptor cut across the grass in front of the student center and managed, for the first time in a 
week, to get sprayed by organic fall-out from the slightly under-engineered and unfortunately named "Lawn 
Supervisor Drones," more affectionately known as LSD's. The designers of the glorified lawn-mowers had gone so 
far as to keep the robots from mowing people instead of the lawn, but in a typically myopic manner, had neglected 
to consider that most college students, while hardly fashion superstars, resented wearing the local vegetation to class. 
Ernie truly wanted to believe that this flaw of the LSD's wasn't intentional, but he still couldn't decide if that would 
make him feel better.
Brushing off the last of the lawn trimmings from his black silk shirt, Ernie crossed Forbes Bikeway to the Old Campus, 
and wound his way towards the College of Fine Arts. He briefly chastised himself for stopping to watch a game of 
pick-up basketball in the courts next to the gym and proceeded into the building.
"Mr. Jones, how nice of you to join us!"
Ernie shrugged, smiled innocently, slumped into a chair, and hoped to hell he wasn't blushing. The worst thing one 
could do when one was 15 minutes late for one of Dr. Magnuson's classes, was to make it looked as if you were 
sheepish. If acted out correctly, the one act play in which neither party acknowledges the faux pas could be quite 
educational. A real creative exercise. The lines were the same every time, but the performances varied.
"Yeah, well, I don't really have any more pressing appointments for a bit," he projected while casually glancing at 
his watch with a slight from.
8
I "Good." stated Dr. Magnuson, "Then, of course you'll have all the time you need for presenting your latest work."
by IAN DAVIS 
Robotics Graduate Student
a fictional

---------------------------------------------------

to see that he had
>f course, inadisi
b'a<i cmnbiflatiorT'was daydreaming and live 
¡ihrfoes:^-----
ay, Ejlus it wefi already being fabricated in the stereo- 
! sjie would be not even a little bit amused. Most of 
embarrassed to present them now.
Fuck. That wasn't in the script. Several people in the class giggled at his momentary blank stare. He fidgetecl once in 
the chair, nervously touched the wristwatch-sized cyberlink on his right arm, mentally called up the virtual room 
containing his latest sculptures, sighed at the vastly unfinished state of all of them, straightened up, and sail-, "Sure," 
in the course of approximately half a second.
Dr. Magnuson half-nodded and smiled as she gestured for the young man to take the floor. His classmate 
of Ernie's penchant for rather large holos, pushed their chairs back towards the edge of the large circular
Ernie cleared his throat. Ernie stood up. Ernie nervously adjusted his collar. But mostly, Ernie wished he colild find 
one of his works that he could present and that his BS was strong enough to overcome his stupidity at forgettii g about 
the presentation.
To stall for time, he concentrated on his cyberlink and accessed the classroom control to dim the lights. Tfien he 
summoned three CAR's (Classroom Aid Robots) to move the professor's desk and one of the chairs. Physical 
manipulation was a great time-eater.
"We're waiting, Mr. Jones." spoke the sculpture professor.
Damn. She knows my tricks too well. What to show? The "Ode to Internal Combustion" piece was awaiting CAD Specs
S . v,jp } ..V j£*from his friend Mark in civil engineering. He hardly wanted to present the work as-is with hismind's-eye sketch of 
his Grandfather's old sports car. Ernie just didn't want to be mistaken for a cybist. f
"The Last War" was a powerful piece, he thought, with a bit of self praise, but not especially topical, btofiody had 
been interested in this genre for a generation. He wasn’t sure he could talk that pnejhto the assignment, "A Look 
Inside" especially on such a beautiful day when conflict was the last thing fqjffnd.
The sudden laughter of the class drew Ernest from his reverie, and/] 
accidentally summoned a holo of the lawn outside. Even Dr. Magnu: 
manner (one has to meet to her to appreciate the full effect
Jijy&Ernie snapped off the Display Mode. Ugh. I'm such an idiof .QtfSveip 
cyberlinks to the holo machine with image and scene inte|{pg
yThe buggy sculpture he was doing on commission was a bi^-i 
lithography lab, and if Dr. Magnuson had seen the work the 
his other works were sufficiently unfinished that he would 1
Then his mind performed a small quantum leap as his internal agent suggested the one work he wouldn't have 
considered on his own. The agent, working via the cyberlink, had merely associated attributes of the various requests 
he was making of the sculpture curator system, and had offered up this one piece on a list of suggestions.
He smiled mightily. He activated the room's own curating intelligent agent, who appeared in the holo as a well 
dressed, aged British man.
"Please activate the manual, real-time holo-servo system." Ernie said as the class looked on in slight confusion 
"As you wish sir," spoke the kindly voice, and within a heartbeat, Ernie felt the power in his arm surge.

---------------------------------------------------

When Ernest was much younger he had considered having been born without a left arm to be a curse. Inevitably, 
other children would be childish (hence the etymology) and cruel, and he had sunk down often into pointless self- 
pity. Moreover, he had frequently resented his parents for it.
But as he grew up, he first learned to live with his one arm and to forgive his parents for what was in no way 
preventable. Then, miraculously, upon finishing his physical growth Ernest had been a recipient of one of the most 
advanced synthetic limbs available. After coming to grips with just one arm, having two was like waking up with 
every day being Christmas.
The most use he got out of the synthetic, though, was in his sculpture. He had become involved in sculpture, as he 
now believed, as an act of rebellion against a universe which had told him, "No." This was dumb in a sense, because 
the universe just sat there passively and happily while he got himself all worked up about it, but in a larger sense, 
that's what being young is often about, or so Ernie said late at night when trying to explain to his friends - and 
occasional non-friends — why he did what he did (while they sat around pretending to be more interested in what 
he was saying than in getting some sleep).
"This piece is for a friend of mine," said Ernest as he summoned what appeared to be a solid block of marble 2 meters 
high and 1 by 1 meter wide. The class took some interest at the serious tone of his voice.
Ernest then walked into the holo, and held out his arm so that only the tip of the synthetic limb emerged from the 
block. With the computers constantly reading the kinematics and dynamics of the arm via the cyberlink, Ernest 
began to strip away the outer layer of the block. Of course, he could never control his arm with enough precision 
or resolution to sculpt "real-time," but his arm directed the computers in their revealing of the next layer of the stored 
piece. He felt as if he were conducting a symphony, and decided to summon some quietly powerful background 
music.
The surrounding room was immersed in black, and Ernie moved his hand in a series of helical motions from top to 
bottom, to reveal a sculpture of his friend, Zita, whom he had met in the Robotics Engineering Department while 
having his cyberlink upgraded.
The realist nature of this layer distracted some of the class members, and a few shuffled uneasily because they felt 
let down, but Ernest merely held up his hand to say, "Wait!" and slowly his programmed sculpting began, and Zita's 
image began to sparkle and dissolve, and the virtual mass of her body swirled and reformed in a holo of himself as 
a boy.
The boy, without changing repose, grew in size and aged, and then sparkled and dissolved into swirling clouds which 
chased each other around in the same helical motion his hand had traced earlier.
The masses separated into two larger clouds, which chased each other in an endless circle, and, echoing the Grecian 
Urn, assumed the forms of a man and woman with hands twice on opposite sides of the circle, and the chase slowed 
as the background music assumed lower harmonics, until just he & Zita were standing, both hands linked in a circle. 
Then the whole scene dissolved into a burst of sparkles and stars, with just a brief hint of some words suspended in 
the air, before the whole illusion faded, and just Ernest stood in the middle of the empty room.
The class stood to applaud, Dr. Magnuson nodded and smiled briefly, and Ernest sat down quite happy with himself.
He just hoped that nobody had read the words that had appeared in the air just before he cut off the performance, 
because he felt that the show would have lost its effect had the class/audience known it was just a birthday card...

---------------------------------------------------

Future exploration of the mind
By ALEXANDER HAWKINSON
Junior in Cognitive Psychology
When most people think of psychology, what commonly comes to mind is an image 
of an old man with a beard, sitting in an armchair and relating mental state to sexual 
desires. Far from the truth, this stone-age view of the cognitive sciences has got to go. This 
misconception can be easily dismissed with one walk around the third floor of Baker Hall.
A peek in one room reveals not human beings, but computers that are learning without 
programming to do everything from read to drive a car down the highway. A look into 
another office displays a person playing a video game while their eye movements are 
tracked and recorded. Yet another nook of third floor Baker holds people huddling over 
magnetic resonance images of a person's brain. The psychological research going on today at CMU today is far from 
the misconceived Freudian armchair, pushing the field of cognitive science ahead at an incredible pace — in other 
words, it is the future.
Over the past few decades, the study of the mind has been broken up into a number of different approaches. 
There has been Neuropsychology, studying the brain from inside by looking at patients with brain damage and their 
behavior. There has been cognitive psychology, which has studied human performance on various empirical tasks and 
tried to make inferences about what is going on inside the head. There has been the Information Processing approach, 
attempting to model human behaviors symbolically as computer programs. More recently, there has been 
connectionism, working with neural networks that simulate networks of brain cells and learn without being taught 
the "rules."
After walking around the Psychology Department a bit and talking with some of the professors and researchers 
that can be constantly found there, some of the characteristics of the department that give it it's energy become obvi­
ous. With a effort that is ahead of it's time, the Psychology Department here at CMU is bringing all of these different 
approaches to the mind together into one cohesive whole. With faculty working in all of these methods of research 
and bringing their ideas together, there is an air of excitement and expectation for the future that can be felt in the air.
The future of cognitive science is brighter than ever. The different fields of cognitive study have been approach­
ing an understanding of the mind from all angles. Bringing the methods and findings of all of these fields together, 
the CMU Psychology Department is full of real promise. As the late Allen Newell instantiated in his last book, the time 
is ripe for moving from the many hypotheses about particular aspects of human thought to new unified theories of 
cognition and a real understanding of the human mind.
...And what will become of the artist? IDJ"
Artists as a whole, are optimists, they have utopic visions of the future — a future that shall be made for and by 
the creative. Finally the artist will no longer live on the fringe, finally they'll be able to support themselves, the people 
will come to see their work and it shall be accepted and understood. When asked about the future, many artists will 
make a reference to that glorious moment when art and life merge and become one.
Art is life and life is art. How this will manifest itself can only be speculated. The hope is that artistic creativity 
will become part of our everyday life, that the engineer and mathematician will be as concerned with beauty and 
insight as the visual artist or performer.
The curriculum at a school such as ours will have many of the same concerns as now, most importantly how to 
blend the new technologies with the established traditional forms of art. The artist will not be allowed to live ignorant 
of the possibilities of computers, robotics, and the new and varied media formats that will arise. Secondly, the artist 
will be taught in a different environment. Today the art student is influenced by the professors, the lecturers 
that visit, the local art scene, and the people with whom they share studio space. In the future the artist will 
hopefully be able to communicate with students and professors across the globe. The state of the art in Paris,
New York, or whatever is the new hip art center will be instantly accessible by the student through com­
puter and video. If only the art critics are able to grow in their scope also....

---------------------------------------------------

"I never think of the future. 
It comes soon enough."
-Albert Einstein
Karnege is a monthly supplement 
of The Tartan.
editors: Marni Borek and Daniel Frey 
assistant editors: Trinette Chandler 
and Nicole Allen
Special Thanks to: 
Alexander Hawkinson 
James Altucher 
Ian Davis 
Megan Dietz 
Mike Shapiro 
Kendrik Chua 
Cesar Sanchez

---------------------------------------------------

HHDE000i0@0
Volume 87, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 November 1992
Republican stud work to re-elect
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Darkroom Manager and Snmuol Groonfleld/Tartan Asst. Art Editor
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
This election season, campus has been filled with posters, buttons, and other 
paraphernalia advising prospective supporters of candidates’ viewpoints and 
track records, both good and bad. The 1992 Presidential race has been a 
particularly exciting one and has invited the support of everyone and anyone 
with an opinion.
Many students have even gotten their hands dirty in the political process this 
fall, including junior ECE major Kevin Boyle and junior political science/policy 
and management major Julie Malone, both of whom support President Bush’s 
i-eelection.
Boyle, vice president for public relations for the College Republicans, has 
spent the last several weeks volunteering for the Bush campaign. Boyle has 
worked at Bush’s Pittsburgh headquarters, the Westin William Penn, doing 
ptione-banking(askingpeople to donate theirtimeandmoney to the campaign) 
and sending out literature to local voters.
Boyle also brings back information on Bush policies to distribute on campus. 
“The volunteers are a nice group, all working for a common goal.... We feel that 
the best candidate will win and that the best candidate is George Bush.”
Malone, second vice chair of College Republicans, also volunteers downtown 
at the campaign headquarters and hands out information on campus. Malone 
also helped ran the College Republicans’ voter registration drive at the 
beginning of this semester.
She says, “I have a complete philosophical difference with the Democrats.... 
I feel that Governor Clinton’s policies are socialistic in nature — people don’t 
know what they’re getting into.”
Both Boyle and Malone attended the Victory ’92 rally with keynote speaker 
George W. Bush (the President’s son) a few weeks ago. Boyle also attended last 
week’s Veteran’s Rally with Oliver North, and the Clinton rally in Market 
Square on Friday. “We wanted to try to sway those who have gone astray,” he 
said. Neither attended the Perot rally, which had a $3 admission fee.
When asked why they favor Bush in the upcoming election, both students
Please see REPUBLICANS, page 13
Poli sci professor picks 
Clinton to take Presidency
Governor to win in ‘close to a landslide’
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
If you’ve ever seen the movie The 
Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, you know 
that it’s the only western to end with a 
three-way shoot-out. Drawing a paral­
lel to the Presidential campaign, that
was the title of ______________
Wednesday’s Soup 
and Substance series 
lecture featuring 
Patrick Stroh, associ­
ate professor of social 
and decision sciences, 
and director of the po­
litical science pro­
gram.
The content of his 
speech provided in­
sight into not only the
probable outcome of ----------------------
the race, but the cam- 
paign itself, and what he found is that 
this election year has been odd in al­
most every regard. Says Stroh, “It’s 
been an extremely turbulent year.... 
It’s extremely unusual for a third party 
to successfully enter in.”
According to Stroh, Bush’s positive 
support tends to edge down, and
Clinton’s tends to “bounce around, [but] 
Perot’s support is by far the most inter­
esting in that it forms an X when 
charted,” says Stroh.
Although the negative public atti­
tude toward Perot was at an all time 
high after he dropped out of the race, 
the number of those who support him
“There are aspects of all three candi­
dates that appeal to voters, but no one 
candidate that incorporates all these 
aspects. ”
— Patrick Stroh, 
director of political science program
has surged upward since his return. 
“This surge has come as a result of two 
things — both his extremely effective 
ads and his impressive performance in 
the debates,” says Stroh.
Eric Devereux, a guest lecturer and 
assistant professor of political science 
agrees. But “Perot’s shooting blanks,”
Devereux says, “there’s no real chance of 
his being olocted with such a volatile 
political record. There are aspects of all 
three candidates that appeal to voters, 
but no ono candidate that incorporates 
all these aspects.”
Howover, the candidates' platforms 
are similar in some important regards.
________________ Both Bush and Perot
feel that no limit’ 
should bo placed on 
military spending. 
Both of them show 
very little concern for 
environmental is-' 
sues.
Perot and Clinton 
agree on the issues of 
abortion and indus­
trial policy. And; 
Clinton and Bush
---------both place high em-;
phasis on trade, while 
hiding their views on the deficit.
All three candidates disregard the is­
sue of urban development, and share 
similar views on the issue of crime.
So who will win? “Clinton, by close to 
a landslide,” says Stroh.
“Of the electoral votes, you need 270 to 
Please see STROH, page L3
Time reporter gives insider’s view
things are about to change ... 
Clinton aides are looking for 
places to live... and Republicans
By D. A HENDERSON
Tartan Contributing Editor
Last Thursday AB Lee- . 
tures presented Stan Cloud,
Washington bureau chief 
for Time magazine, in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Cloud 
shared stories and opinions 
about the history of politics 
and the role of the media in
Presidential elections. ______________________________________
Cloud provided the audi- 
ence with the insiders’ (the are turning out resumes like crazy 
beltway, that is) view of the cur- hoping to get a job in the private 
rent Washington climate. “The sector they have been saying is so 
deling about Washington is good ... No one thinks Bush has
much of a chance.”
Cloud provided analysis of 
presidential campaigning based
“The feeling about Washington is 
things are about to change.”
— Stan Cloud, 
Washington bureau chief for Time
on his personal experience with 
eight other Presidential elections. 
Cloud predicted Clinton will win 
by four to six points and that even
with a close popular vote, Clinton 
will be a clear winner in the elec­
toral college. Though Cloud had 
confidence in his predictions, he 
pointed out that, sometimes, he 
is not accurate.
Cloud’s analysis of the cam­
paign included an interesting dis­
cussion of third party candidates 
through out history and Perot in 
particular. “Third party candi­
dates traditionally look about 
twice as good in the polls as in the 
actual polling place. People like 
the idea of voting for a rebel with 
a cause in this case.... I suspect 
Please see TIME, page 12
,pg7t 7oopgu dntpgwdtihp t7 7tcpg 6dwBiBdtpu
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
When a man who has never 
held public office suddenly ap­
pears on the ballot in all fifty 
states for the office of President 
the United States, that’s inter­
esting. When that man is consis­
tently getting the support of 20 
Percent of the electorate, that’s 
®ews. And when that man is Ross 
p°t. that’s remarkable, 
freshman CIT major Frank 
°hnson, who worked on the Perot
campaign this summer, says, “I 
don’t expect him to win, but the 
fact that a fifth of the people are 
going to vote for him shows some­
thing about the attitudes the 
country has toward the political 
process in general.”
Johnson worked in his home­
town of Titusville, Penn., to get 
Perot on the Pennsylvania bal­
lot. “I basically went around town 
and got signatures of the peti­
tion,” he says.
He was also “very disappointed 
when he dropped out.... The rea-
son he gave was that he didn’t 
want to throw the country into 
turmoil if the election was a plu­
rality and went into the House, 
which looked possible.” 
Supporter reaction to Perot’s 
dropout ranged from, “There was 
no way he could possibly win,” to 
“He didn’t have the guts to go 
through with it.”
But when Perot came back last 
month, Johnson says he was, “sur­
prised and pleased, because it 
gave another alternative to Bush 
and Clinton. That’s when I looked
at his book and thought about 
what all the candidates had said, 
andl decided that for all his faults, 
Perot really was the best candi­
date.”
Johnson shares many specific 
ideas with Perot, and this is why 
he’s casting his vote for Perot.
“I believe that the biggest prob­
lems facing our country rightnow 
are the national deficit and debt, 
and the loss of manufacturing 
jobs. I feel he’s the only candidate 
who’s addressing these issues,” 
says Johnson.
ytGBpwtu 6dI
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Although some of us may consider ourselves 
pronounced political views, how many of us can 
done anything to stand up for them? We may 
Republican, Democrat, or independent, but hav< 
worked in the public to gain support for our cause?
Most of us will only be represented by a vote tomor 
Christy Moore, junior social history major, and CS c 
student Justin Boyan will be able to cast their votes for a ticket 
they actually worked to support.
Moore worked as an intern at the Clinton/Gore Campaign 
Headquarters in Western Pennsylvania this election year. She 
helped the deputy field coordinator, organizing door-to-door 
campaigns and banking funds for the ticket. She also served as 
a liaison to the headquarters on campus, pushing influence for 
the Clinton/Gore ballot.
Boyan serves as the head of CMU for CJ.intioj 
through that 250-member organization, helps the cam] 
phone-banking, working closely with the downto’ 
ters, and doing everything else he can to drum up 
ticket of choice.
Moore’s genuine, personal support of this ticket led to her 
desire to work for the campaign. “I do believe in these candi­
dates,” she says. “Many times, people will automatically vote for 
the Democrat no matter what, if they are Democrats, but I can 
truly say that I have looked at the candidates and chosen the one 
I believe will do the best job.”
On the issues, both Moore and Boyan agree that, “Clinton and 
Gore have a much better understanding of what it will take to 
create jobs,” as Boyan puts it. He also says that the Democratic
Please see DEMOCRATS, page L2

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
Orange and blackwere the colors of choice this weekend as members of the campus community celebrated a ghoulish Hal­loween. From pumpkin carving to costume parties to trick-or-treating, It seems everyone got Into the mood. Having parents here Just made it all the more fun — there were more easily- scared people to assault. Here, Mr. Pumpkin Head tries to frighten the photographer, and a carved, skinned pumpkin cries out for help.
Kovln Chen/Tartan Photographer
yG447gt o7g lniwt7w 
gGwu ciCc dt lLO
DEMOCRATS, from page LI
ticket is “much more mainstream in issues of choice and environ­
ment.”
Increasing voter registration and turnout has been a big goal of 
CMU for Clinton/Gore — as Boyan says, “We want to do everything 
we can.... We want to get out the vote on election day, even if you’re 
for the unthinkable candidate.”
Clinton and Gore, Moore says, have made attempts to reach 
college-age voters, as well. Both Clinton and Gore even appeared on 
MTV to speak and take questions from younger voters, a move that 
Bush claimed was “beneath the Presidency.” Perot has also de­
clined the invitation to appear. The effort by Clinton, which was 
also repeated by Gore, is a sure sign of his interest in young voter 
support.
Bush’s current jump in the polls has made the race a bit tighter 
in these last few weeks, but both Moore and Boyan are positive that 
the Clinton/Gore ticket remains safe. “I’m sure we’ll still pull 
through,” Moore says. “The media often pulls for the underdog at 
the last minute. President Bush isn’t much of a threat,” she says. 
“Ross Perot can be considered just as threatening [due to the fact 
that he is taking Democratic votes].”
Boyan says he is more “cautiously optimistic,” recognizing that it 
isn’t over until it is, indeed, over.
The current CNN/Gallup Poll shows Bush beginning to bridge 
the gap between his popular support and that of the Democratic 
leaders (Clinton leads by two percent), but it is the electoral vote 
that will make the difference. Clinton currently has 38 states in his 
favor, only needing 27 for the win. “I think Pennsylvania is the key 
state in this election,” says Boyan. “We can make or break the 
candidates.”
“We’ll see what happens Tuesday,” says Moore. “At least I can say 
I have justified how I will vote. [Working for the campaign] makes 
me feel like I’m making a difference.”
Boyan says, “If there’s one message that I want to get out, it’s that 
every vote counts. If you want a change, vote for Clinton/Gore.”
(cpgp
tcpgpiudwppBs
tcpgpiudXd/M
United Way
It brings out the best in all of usi'
THE MESSAGE. OF KRISTALNACHT 
IN 1992
Kristalnacht, the night of shattered glass, symbolizes the beginning of 
the Holocaust. This year Hillel commemorates Kristalnacht, 
November 9, 1938, by hosting a special guest speaker from Germany.
Bagel Brunch and Program featuring 
Dr. Coos Schoneveld 
General Secretray,
International Council of Christians and Jews 
Heppenheim, Germany 
Sunday, November 8 • 12:00 noon 
Hillel Lounge, 160 N. Craig Street 
Questions? Call Hillel • 621-8875.
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Pick-up only ^
¦~r
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
S9.95 plus tax 
____Delivery___
-t
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
Pick-up or Delivery
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
2 MedPizzas + 
1 topping on 
each for $10.50
plus tax
Delivery or Pick-up
'“I
Sm White Pizza 
& Tossed SaladOnly $4.99
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
Hawaiian Pizza
Special
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
'“I
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-upf--Please mention coupons upon ordering.
Coupons not valid with any other offer. Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET687-9555
190 N. Craig St.
Last
Chance
Seniors....
This is your LAST CHANCE to get 
your portraittaken forthe 1993 year­
book.
531 seniors have already had their 
pictures taken. Don't get left out of 
your yearbook — it's quick, it's easy, 
and it's FREE.
To sign up for your sitting, you can see 
us at the dates and times below:
Thursday, Nov. 5 
Friday, Nov. 6
Monday, Nov. 9 
to Fri., Nov. 13
10 am - 4 pm
Table in front of Doherty
9 am - 5 pm
Skibo 45 (Senior Pic Room)
Call x2121 with questions.
And another thing....
You still have time to get your 1993 yearbook at a discount. We're selling the 1993 
book for just $19.93 until December 1. After December 1, the price of the 
yearbook will be $25. This date is firm and the discount will not be extended again. 
To order your yearbook, see us at the dates and times above or stop by our office, 
Skibo 46A. Payment by cash, check, MasterCard, and Visa are accepted.
The Thistle is funded by the Student Activities Fee.
$19.93

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
Time editor discusses predictions for election
TIME, from page LI
you will see some fading [in Perot] but 
there’s no election yet—Imay be wrong.” 
Despite the lack of scandals this elec­
tion has spawned, Cloud still character­
izes 1992 as “the most extraordinary 
political year in my memory.”
He believes that this campaign has 
really focused on the issues and less on 
personal attacks: “This has been one of 
the very best campaigns — very issue- 
oriented, though there were some rough 
patches at the beginning. If you were 
listening you should have learned a lot 
about health care and the deficit.” 
Cloud presented his own personal char­
acterizations of the three major candi­
dates.
Cloud said he was really quite sur­
prised when Clinton chose Gore as his 
running mate. He then described the 
young pair as “two yuppie southerners” 
and “a white-collar yuppie ticket with
Perot received an even harsher char­
acterization: “Perot with his paranoia, 
the Viet Cong running across his front 
lawn and so on.”
Bush was simply described as “down­
cast and unhappy, paying for four years 
of slight-to-zero attention to domestic 
policy.”
The last part of the lecture Cloud en­
titled “The Wonderful World of Presi­
dential Politics and How We Choose.”
Though Cloud feels the American sys­
tem of electing a President is not the 
best, it will take a major effort on the 
part of all Americans to correct the prob­
lems. The problems as Cloud describes 
them are too much television and too 
much money.
Cloud advocates public financing of 
elections and strict limits on campaign 
spending.
“Money is the mother’s milk of poli­
tics.... Public financing with limits on all 
campaigns will relieve candidates of the 
need to raise money,” he said.
Another problem Cloud sees with the 
current election process is television, 
which he believes shortens what voters 
learn about the candidates to a 10-sec­
ond clip.
“Pictures,” Cloud says,' “are not al­
ways worth a thousand words. Some­
times they are worth about the 10 words 
of a sound bite.”
Though Cloud criticizes television’s 
role in Presidential elections, he does 
think that press coverage is better this 
year than it has ever been before.
Currently, the media is engaged in “a 
systematic review of the candidates’ ads 
and we [the media] have gotten off the 
[candidates’ collective] bus. We now 
send people in and then they come out— 
we are much less controlled by the can­
didates.”
Cloud finished his lecture by enter­
taining questions from the students. 
When asked about the role of college 
students in this year’s election, Cloud 
said that it remains to be seen.
Students have been registering in 
record numbers (reversing a 20-year-old 
trend of decreasing registration) and, if 
they all vote this year, this may be the 
long-awaited year of the Youth Vote.
Cloud credits the rise in youth regis­
tration in part to MTV and their mas­
sive Choose or Lose drive, as well as the 
music industry’s Rock the Vote cam­
paign.
Professor lectures 
on ’92 campaign
STROH, from pngo LI
win, and he’s locked up 300. So the 
question is, 300 plus what?” Stroh 
says.
As for the popular vote, there are
still some ques- __________________
tions left unan­
swered.
“The economy’s 
driven the whole 
picture,” says Den­
nis Roddy, guest 
lecturer and re­
porter for the 
Pittsburgh Press.
According to 
him, the public is 
filled with pro­
found economic 
anxiety and ex­
treme distaste for _________________
the entire political 
process.
What the public is really looking 
for, he says, is “a way to vote no” to all 
of the above choices. The public, he 
says, is simply disappointed.
The campaign is mostly driven by
“The economy's 
driven the whole 
picture 
— Dennis Roddy, 
guest lecturer, 
Pittsburgh Press 
reporter
public perception, and advertisements 
in the visual media have beou very 
influential in disturbing the dividing 
line between fiction and truth.
“In the early days, the candidate is 
_______________ running for Presi­
dent of TV... and if 
he can’t get there, 
he can’t get to the 
White House,” says 
Roddy.
After Tuesday, 
though, all the 
smear ads and 
sound bites won’t 
make a bit of dif­
ference.
In the good, the 
bad, and the ugly 
world of politics 
there can be only 
one winner, and 
this Tuesday that 
winner will be chosen to bo the 42nd 
President of the United States as vot­
ers fill ballots, booths, and TV screens 
with the projected image of their 
four-year dreams.
Supporters hope to 
give Bush second term
would create new jobs in the Pitts­
burgh area, while preventing the 
loss of current jobs.
Bush is also in favor of the 
balanced budget amendment, 
which would force Congress only 
to submit budgets for as much
REPUBLICANS, from page LI
had similar comments.
Boyle said that education and 
the economy were priority issues 
in his continuing support for the 
President.
“Arkansas rates last in the
country --------------------------------
in people 
with col­
lege de­
grees,” 
he said.
“I also 
support 
the Pres- 
ident’s 
program 
to allow 
taxes to 
pay for
low-in- —
come and
minority families.”
Boyle also says that the recent 
economic slow-down was “not a 
recession” and says that “we’ve 
had four straight quarters of eco­
nomic growth under Bush.”
Bush is also in favor of the 
North Atlantic Free Trade Agree­
ment (NAFTA). Malone said,
“Pennsylvania’s exports to 
Mexico and Canada have gone 
up tremendously, creating “Clinton is abysmal on the envi- 
132,000 jobs.... Without NAFTA ronment,” and also noted that 
these jobs will not exist.” Arkansas places 42nd in the na-
Boyle noted that Bush also tion in the cleanliness of their 
supports the merger of US Air streams.
and British Airways, which Boyle said that he is in favor of
"Just to be a student on this campus 
you need character references. I cer­
tainly think that character has a place 
in the Office of the President of the 
United States. ”
— Julie Malone, 
Bush supporter
money as they have. Clinton cur­
rently has a similar program in­
stituted in his state, but does not 
support one at the Presidential 
level.
In addition, Boyle says, “I do 
not believe that George Bush has 
any intentions of raising taxes.”
The environment is also a ma­
jor issue in this year’s campaign.
Boyle said that he believes that
improving the environment but 
said, “I don’t think that we should 
have a world full of owls and 
everyone out of work.”
Malone said, “I think that 
Clinton and Gore could take the 
environment to the extreme of
------------------------ costing people
jobs.”
Both Malone 
and Boyle said 
that they 
agreed with 
Bush’s pro-life 
stance on the 
abortionissue, 
except in cases 
of rape, incest, 
or danger to 
the life of the 
mother.
— Malone em­
phasized that 
she does not trust Clinton: “Just 
to be a student on this campus 
you need character references. I 
certainly think that character has 
a place in the Office of the Presi­
dent of the United States.”
All in all, these two ardent 
young republicans strongly be­
lieve that there is no viable choice 
but to re-elect Bush at the polls 
tomorrow.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Early Registration 
Wean Hall 4102
Math/CS Majors should 
pre-register November 2-13
(Math, ECE, etc....)
Any other undergrads registering 
for a CS course should pre-register 
November 9-13.
Questions? Call Maria at x3286
Amsterdam 
Atlanta 
Barcelona 
Berlin 
Bombay 
Boston 
Brussels 
Buenos Aires 
Caracas 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Copenhagen 
Dallas 
Düsseldorf 
EuroCenter 
Geneva 
Gothenburg 
Hamburg 
Helsinki 
Hong Kong 
Houston 
Lisbon 
London 
Los Angeles 
Madrid 
Melbourne 
Mexico City 
Milan 
Minneapolis 
Monterey 
Montreal 
Munich 
New York 
Osaka 
Oslo 
Paris 
Pittsburgh 
Rome 
San Francisco 
San Jose 
Sao Paulo 
Seoul 
Stamford 
Stockholm 
Stuttgart 
Sydney 
Taipei 
Tokyo 
Toronto 
Vienna 
Washington DC 
Zurich
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Management consulting provides the unique opportunity to leverage critical skills developed through 
engineering studies with opportunities to develop and apply essential management skills. If the 
prospect of broadening your current base of engineering training with experience in management 
decision making interests' you, then management consulting may be a career you should consider.
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
The leading international management consulting firm invites
Masters Candidates in 
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
to an
INFORMATION SESSSION
Thursday, November 5,1992 
6 pm - 8 pm 
Doherty Hall, Room 1211
McKinsey & Co. is an international strategic management consulting firm with 53 offices in 26 countries around the 
world. We serve mostly Fortune and International 500 company top executives on issues of strategic importance. 
Our mission is twofold: to help clients make substantial and lasting improvements in their performance, and to build 
a firm that is able to attract, develop, excite, and retain exceptional people.
Interviews will be December 3 at the Career Opportunities Center in the GSIA in conjunction with our MBA Recruiting
16" Cheese 
Pizza
$3.49
Why pay more 
when you can get 
the best for less?
Original Hot Dog Sho 
3901 Forbes Avenue 
621-0435

---------------------------------------------------

Student—ISenate
CMU
Elections
Monday, November 9, and Tuesday, November 10, from 9 am - 5 
pm, by the Fence. Gray Matter in case of inclement weather. 
Write-in votes will be accepted in each college. Here are the can­
didates whose names will be on the ballots:
CFA CIT MCS
3 seats available 6 seats available 2 seats available
Matt Morrow
I think Student Senate needs a little art in it! I... plan on 
doing just that. ... I'm going to make some changes to 
benefit Carnegie Mellon's Student Body. I'm not going to sit 
around at meetings ... and watch NOTHING get done. So 
vote Matt Morrow for CFA Senator, damn it!
Moneet Singh
Mo' Money, Mo’ Fun, Moneet... I'm doin' fine.
D. Andrew Byler
No platform submitted.
Greg Haverkamp
Senate must be made strong again. Only in this way will it 
ever truly work for the students it represents. That is my 
goal. In my two semesters, I have served as chair to two 
committees. I have the necessary knowledge, skills, and 
experience to gefthe job done.
Jonathan Kline
As a Student Senator, I plan to encourage rational decision 
making by the body, and will do my best to reflect the views 
of my constituents in my voting.
Yamam Fadl
No platform submitted.
Shawn Knight
I offer the student body the same things I offered pne year 
ago: dedication and enthusiasm. I also offer an additional 
year of experience serving the Student Body as a loyal 
representative, and I look forward to continuing to do so in 
the future.
Heinz School 
2 seats available
H&SS
2 seats available
Miscellaneous 
1 seat available
No petitions received. 
Write-in votes are 
encouraged.
Seth Halvaksz
No platform submitted.
Ann Kopchik
I'm interested in helping the student body become more 
involved with Senate. I want to help open up the lines of 
communication. I'm also interested in working to promote 
the rights of all students on campus and seeing an end to 
discrimination.
Dawn Wallhausen
No platform submitted.
No petitions received. 
Write-in votes are 
encouraged.
GSIA
3 seats available
IM
1 seat available
scs
2 seats available
No petitions received. No petitions received. No petitions received. 
Write-in votes are Write-in votes are Write-in votes are
encouraged. encouraged. encouraged.
Funded by your Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992L5
Mr. Fraternity offers crazy men chance to 
compete in togas, evening wear, talent
,ci )d4Hu ytp4cpw RiCcto77t Xiwu UVVY titnp iw 6cdgit/ 67I4ptiti7w
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Staffwriter
The giddiness is tangible as 
the contestants get ready for the 
opening competition. Everyone 
has worked hard to reach this 
point—primping and priming to 
become glamorous enough to be 
chosen the 
winner.
The pres­
tige of this 
title is such 
that the 
contestants 
consider 
this more 
than just 
another
beau-ty contest. It is the combin­
ing of beauty, talent, and intel­
lect. Yes, it’s the sixth annual 
Mr. Fraternity contest, brought 
to you by Kappa Alpha Theta.
The event opened with the 
beach wear competition. This 
ranged from men flexing their 
muscles to guys bopping around 
in scuba outfits. Some of the con­
testants looked as though they 
had just finished lifting weights, 
while some looked like they had 
just finished lifting a pitcher of 
beer and a large pizza. Obviously 
this was an equal opportunity 
contest.
Mike Arajakis, from Beta Theta 
Pi, stood out from the rest of the 
competition in a costume that 
would make all serious cross 
dressers drool with envy — it 
included fishnet stockings and 
pasties.
The beach wear competition set 
the pace for the rest of the 
evening, with each fraternity 
member trying to out-bizarre the 
others.
One might wonder why all this 
frivolity was going on. In 1984, 
over the Thanksgiving holiday, 
Theta sister Karin Johnson died 
of Sudden Asthma Death Syn­
drome, a problem which affects 
teenagers and young adults that 
are afflicted with asthma. Hence, 
the sorority has this event every
Some of the contestants looked as 
though they had just finished lifting 
weights while some looked like they 
had just finished lifting a pitcher of beer 
and a large pizza.
year to raise money for the Cen­
tral Ohio Lung Association and 
the Karin Johnson fund. It cer­
tainly seemed successful. Skibo 
Ballroom was packed.
Toga wear followed the beach 
wear competition. Once again, 
Mike Arajakis wins for original­
ity with a duct tape toga (ouch), 
followed closely by the saran wrap 
model (by Theta Xi’s Victor 
Carter). There was also the popu­
lar scuba look in lieu of toga, 
sported by Alpha Epsilon Pi’s 
Brian Shevelenko. It can’t be easy 
to be original with a toga, but 
these men found a way to do it.
The talent competition was an 
experience that is hard to de­
scribe without using one word — 
homoeroticism. Tutus and power 
tools were the highlights of this 
competition.
Roy Devine, Alpha Tau Omega, 
performed (sort of) a sparingly 
light ballet.
A chain saw took center stage 
as Jason Grabarczyck did either 
an imitation of Tim Allen or of
Bob Villa and cut out Kappa 
Sigma letters from plywood. 
Dressing in women’s clothes 
seemed to be the thrust of the 
talent competition, if not the event 
as a whole. I got the feeling that 
either these men were extremely 
secure, or not quite.
The event closed with the for­
mal wear 
competition 
and the an­
nouncing of 
the winners. 
Each contes­
tant was 
asked a differ­
ent question,
________________ and some ac-
tually an­
swered coherently. Nothing too 
surprising here.
Out of all the silliness that hap­
pened during the evening, there 
was something that I thought so 
ironic, I had to write about it. Tjie 
whole event was to raise money 
for the Central Ohio Lung Asso­
ciation and at intermission half 
of the crowd (including myself) 
was outside sucking down ciga­
rettes. Go figure.
The envelope please ... and the 
winners are as follows: Mr. Con­
geniality goes to Arajakis of Beta 
Theta Pi. Third place belongs to 
the house of AEPi and Sheve­
lenko. Grabarczyk, Kappa Sigma, 
took second place and (drumroll 
please) Mr. Fraternity 1992 is 
Stephen Lightfoot of Phi Kappa 
Theta.
I asked Lightfoot, “You’ve sur­
passed all competition, and 
proven yourself a man among 
men. What are you going to do 
next?”
“I’m going to Disneyworld,” he 
said. Honest, he really did.
V*--------------------------------------------------------------------^PRI.NCI P 1. E S/SOUND RE T I R E M E N 1I N V E S T I N G
' ---------------------------^
/?/r
DAkTDlaRR-s SEN SDLN Sk ySaAS 
yamDT0 ekA ANSDANLNTS Dy (ENT DS Rkk)y 
RD)N -kO laT RNayS aeekA. DSM
Can't afford to save for retirement? ' 
The truth ¡s, you can't afford not to. 
Not when you realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 30years or more. You’ll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax-deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow. 
Consider this: set aside just $100 each 
month beginning at age 30 and you can 
accumulate over $192,539* by the time 
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and 
you'll have to budget $227each month 
to reach the same goal.
Even if you’re not counting the years to 
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
to help you build the future you deserve— 
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest­
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans 75 years.
Over a million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not. 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.55“
n interest rate of 7.5% credited to TIAA Retirement Annuities. This rate ü used solely to show the power and effect of compounding. Lower ot produce very different results. CUE F certifica tcj are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services.
0NS ,aD. ekA 
(ANySRDT0
O, Sk rM SDLNy a (NN)v
Professional Instruction & work-out facilities FREE 
Enjoy all expence paid trips, 
on weekends, throughout 
N.Y. W. Va. Pa. Md & Oh.
NO SALES INVOLVED 
NO COST TO YOU.
can make you a star 
Pro-styled events, with semi-pro pay 
TO YOU
Serious Women ONLY need apply 
For appointment call 695-8255
WOMEN’S WRESTLING CLUB
%

---------------------------------------------------

TtiQU6tìT5 FRom ft Um Pep ffìihlù xmuce' 
seveRfiL peopLtr c“rl dgnp .mmna c“ gmk (LomeTHE PfìSTFtu ZS Reft^uJHV yowRZ TH6 LÜEEKS Hf&NT TH£ GO\JT. oNty OM6 OJHCcorns dm me DovesomeTHiuo- tftusee'jLT? ujiTH QuesTZousro euLmitifire Pi. J CätLT seeftßmSd ELoific... Hzrn ? Him, He is
dy THexuretesi vn“ ELimzMTe myfo I reut OF EDucßTX-ohi, soroernTNG mxcnous > dg?I HtìVECHOSEN THAT OJOfi KS IN imftGE YOU S€€ fi F€u/ TO fiNSWe* THEIR FAVO fi ? Js GdefiTL y 
H£R£. Gxer Refiui (fìiKrtìxFieù.
TWO MINUTES AGO, I WAS EWING OE'llLUiP 
.CON GREGEATIü ;jA=N <v\¦ü'N \TV jGü Gvü\;
AND NOW I'M RUNNING 
AROUND ON A PLMGRWHD 
Ml OF NAUSEA-INDUCING, DISORIENTING MOTION , 
-----. DEN ICES. ,____y
ITS THE ONE TIME AT 
SCHOOL I GET SOME ______ SOLITUDE. __
HES SUSIE, 
PICK A NUMBER IN 
THE FORTONE TELLER.
f1J
WE LIFT UP FLAP ’B" AND 
\T SMS, " fOU'RE A 
MOUTH-BREATHING BPS 
OF BOOGEeS/ "NtMMKW
ONE, TWO, 
THREE! 
NOW PICK A LETTER
UW...
THREE
LIFE DOESHT GET 
MUCH BETTER THAN 
-------. THIS.
-1 Ktooio, T'm ae-rrt/j^ 
STT% sick OP thSb£ I>AMw ÜJR<U.£5 "
IT TAKES ME MORE THAN 
ONE RECESS TO WEAR MHSELF INTO iv STATE 
OF SUBMISSION.PlTT VW1S{ DAV?
’cause I can't.*
in3er+ 'o+s b hern Wf„-'
BfWlW rAHT'i!?ÇN >• !•i _Cwt t•
TRADE CAPTAIN NAPALM 
BUBBLE GUM CARDS ? _
AFTER CHEWING ALMOST 
«0 WORTH OF GUM, INE 
COLLECTED AIL THE CARDS 
EXCEPT NUMBERS 8 AND 34. 
I'LL TRADE HOU mH DUPLI­
CATE FOR EITHER OF THOSE.
I DONT COLLECT 
CAPTAIN NAPALM BUBBLE GUM CARDSIT MUST BE DEPRESSING 
TO GO THROOGH LIFE WITH No PURPOSE
H •pt+jTjp '!*0j o tw.i
"Paolo V. MalabiAAjO
¿Pentì; by ^Mangoes
AOPTH-' PBTHP-' V---------
THAT WAS A / HO, W
hiOSDÇo CnÇit MCwR_Ç 
-Ea GOING TO V IT- GET THE BAVl? V-,,—^
ITS NOT MUCH FUN PLA'dUG 
WITH SOMEONE YMo WOULD 
RATHER TACKLE THAN WIN.
GO ON. TAKE A RUNNING START, y
Ift THIRD DOWN 
AND FOUR TO GO.
Gesundheit,
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg

---------------------------------------------------

Ahi hN’BgfkLe flPOTo^J WlRX
MR. PRESIDENT, THE 
NEWWRKER/S . 
REPORTING mm TMTDeePtœ)WR. 
^ DENIALS, YOU WERE 
VERT MUCH "IN 
*y THE LOOP”IN7HB 
7\ IRAN-CONTRA 
L'gr*' SCANDAL...
rm PRESP,smCRETLYASKED KJN5 HUSSEIN TO URGE SAPCHM HUSSEIN TO BOMB IRAN. THE PLAN IMS 10 FORCE
v,--------TEHRAN TO SEEKW "^US. AIR DEFENSE> , WEAPONS IN . EXCHANGE FOR' Üfll Kt\H051P6E&,m krl\(1 5^. COMMENT?
LOOK,
THE REAL 
QUESTION®, 
"HEY. WHO PO 
KO TRUST?"
OOPS,.. WRONG, 
ICOP. c
SIR, ITS BEING RE­
PORTED THAT AT THE 
UPPING OF CIA CHIEF 
BILL CASEY, YOU FLEW ' 
TO THBMIP-EA5TIN f?86 
ON A SECRET MISSION...*
NO SECRET NOTACOORPINGTO 
ABOUTIT. AN INTERNAL MEMO. 
JUSTWANTEP WWCH DESCRIBES 
VHELP OUT THESCHEMETOGBT 
WITH THE THEARMS-FOR-HCG- 
S PEACE TAGES NEGOTIATIONS
THING BACK ON TRACK...
REPORTEDLY, YOU ASKED» 
HUSSEIN ANP MUBARAK 
TOURSE SAPPAM TO BOMB 
DEEP IN IRAN. THIS SAPPAM 
PIP, WITHIN 48 HOURS. < 
NOT LONG AFTER, IRAN 
CAME 70 US FOR AIR. 
PEFENSE WEAPONS.
pring193ch333 YOU'RE KIPPING. 
IT WORKEP? NO ONE EVEN 
NOT THAT CONSRAT- 
IT EVER ULATEPrfT^' HAPPENED. YOU?
SIR, IF YOU PLAYEP 
AN OPERATIONAL 
ROLE IN A SCHEME 
^ TO FORCE IRAN TO 
S8 SEEK ARMS fORHOS- 
'¦Æ TA6ES, ISN'T YOUR 
ehd ulofC as ytf() ,aP. 
as .At fuax ,of( aP.m 
wkRA.solWtvaxY
NO. BUT LOOK. I'VE 1 
BEEN THERE, IKN01U 
WHAT ITS LIKE TOSAY, 
"HEY.* I MEAN. WITH 
THE LOOP THING, MAK-\ 
ING THE TOUGH CAUS, 
NOT LIKE SOME. AND 
I "THINK MR. AND MRS 
AMERICA GET THAT ,
/ î>ÉDU4tfT H 16 You $V
¦Rvrrr
PleasSENeE
DC^ANDRC SIA)/*)ONS
ARCANC SLA VCR 1
SIR, its NOW BECOMING 
CLEARTHAT THE U.S.
HAP A SECRET POLICY 
am OF BUILDING UP 
gf SADPAM HUSSEIN 
PR! OR TO THE 
'/J/fx / GULF WAR...
WHY DID YOU IGNORE 
REPEATED INIUII6ENCE 
\ ASSESSMENTS THAT 
, VV WARNED AGAINST 
I /k^\ HELPING &DMM 
MÈ> DEVELOP 
Vjr HIS NUCLEAR 
J\ / CAPABILITY?
^ WELL, WE 
'% WAN1ED10 
WORK WITH HIM, 
BRING HIM IN70 
THE FAMILY OF 
^ NATIONS. THIS 
PIP WAS BEFORE HE 
WAS IN HIS BRU­
TAL DICTATOR 
MOPE.
OUI HE WAS 
GASSING HIO 
OWN PEOPLE
SURE, HE 
WSNTNMAW.
LHJTiCOK
fS1"c wanes
ARE ROUGH. 
PIPtfTAPPROVE, 
BUT HEY. ^ft. ¡VoW.'j
frm is ft 1- t. weHOAAFTTSrut Aimrre, ne\Tutr sHm/cp ufi ”mIFL sI, avo / \MJ 1/0 WX(W (Ævi Mt'smvj
'NOV/ KIS1AMP\ ^jAAKe un c
YOUR ACTIONS SEEM TO SUG­
GEST THAT YOU THINK THE 
AMERICAN PEOPLE SHOULD TRUST 
YOU TO DO ANYTHING ON THEJR 
.^5—\_. BEHALF. EVEN IF 
IT'S SECRET, CON- 
(f 1 \\ TRARY TO STATED
I \ T'McIpV o(x
UU ^^Hr&' ILLEGAL- 
/5THAT
• M’ CS J FAIR. TO
rz *r sa*
YES. ANPTLL TELL 
YOU WHY. PEOPLE 
WANT TO TRUST ME.
I KNOW, BEEN OUT 
THERE, SEEN THE 
HEARTBEAT OF IT. 
KNOW WHO MR. ANP,
SIR, YOUR LONG 
INVOLVEMENT IN 
MAKING COVERT 
POLICY SPEAKS TO 
\ THE ISSUE OF 
^ '‘TRUST" YOU KEEP 
/ RAISING...
r Ano lOaRI nttJK rnjs " c-M Cnu- Hver you. r »Ae run. Biuixs tM.fi>', WtrH srivee. Sacr I , i H ooftp vp vim this I lOi/y I F T L of Bp som£ L y-NÎ{OK ce# wcwD I Wl »Aft Mi OüfJtA ’OK I k LOOKS UKt MkjlVz WAS is OUT
annv- nUl'amrem ^LeWHO BUILDERS? DON'T HAVE 
TIME TOR THEIR 
\ 1 OWN SECRE T—
^ ! MISSIONS. ANP,
?r . HEY, I UNDER- 
\ ; STAND THAT.
Ci// ijitvr- Ttvtf\ltetnvr» dg. IfNiXOH) we n-3 CDOW JtJr£t(rVC/J(r.~ \ guTFjejr THpJi,s myrj [JHEAC My BAa*
REALLY ARE?
(oJut^A VHÔZe' IgoTTLg 0-ONCTe k (WS1. TH&eoce LArry/of. Doluk/ A
~ WAIT A W.WEOWN 
t,n MINUTE,
*P. MARK! WHAT
I,- ABOUT THE ^Y/V . 
/ STUFF ABC S V ^
BROKE 0N7HE 
MEETING WTTH ' 5
THE HELL GIMME CH.YEAH? 
YOU PO! YOU A BREAK! ASK HIM! 
GUYS DIP M NAILED 
SQUATON BUSH ON Mf&P 
THIS STORY' "NI6HTUNE" MOOT 
WEEKS /^m 
AGO' M ,
SIR, WOULD YOU 
CONCEDE THAT THIS 
NEWEST REPORT 
IS BY FAR THE MOST
NOW YOU'VE 
DONE m 
HE ’S GIVEN 
US THE SUP
2 CAM POWH E/JCvirrt ro *sa jfAteSi
ON IRAN-CONTRA
THHEMSS
S'CHTFF
^Kln specially mar^d boxes of your favorite serial»)
Sciu iu gpdnM Uqq 4pg6pwt 
CpwGiwpM T7 FiBBiwCM
tAT£ AND A CHANNEL SHORT
Ihe World Series1 The Pinal Frontier. These are the vo^es of t/ic 
Pirated sta’Bunjhthin^.. Itsfo/r tueel: mission* to tell more inuJe jokes; draw 
fnore e^plant, and make more, puns than Danny Fahs dijin four years.
rthz TomaKawkis bailing us, Captain. Xn the previous season7\ after ha;lino a ship in foreijn territory while cruising, at Warp | Six, they have challenged its athletes to a baseball game 20o*t of M-tiroes and hate had a winning record of .650 while- /
| Shut up and open <3\ / /J <3>cd p J_ch3nnel,preferably WTBS) JJSTAR BUCS
THE /I/FXT FRUSTRATIONTB/1-SP110‘
BIKER.
HARU-LUC5T0R.Y
UiW£c£SS«y LiiureKHanr CHILF tA/aWtU
DATA WHIFF TRàW FOUR-D nUM*ut
MANAGERSLÛ6: STARDATE l80<O£92827j;, YiFTER 3DIVISIONAL 
TITLES. HE ARE STILL UK ABLE TO DEFEAT TH* WEST. WE ARC 
ug.Is.s jB'DC-j“e EaDb aD Da­•1bPDj dg. atG P•'zazC”“
T WEEP! This is Captain Turner. Me chalky your sad excuse for steam to a baseball ¡jarce on our ship at 2005 hours.Panna, our tein /jeeds newN uniforms. Can you assist ws?
Thank, you *lC\ 
bJtifi y ou hâvel 
months to prtpjre Jor an augy ttam.i
You don't hart to
look up there to 
rejd ¿¿¡at Turner 
just said, Often.
stitches of ment
h[rN°y Burjir brain, 
\i 2005 hours is mill 
Vytâfy time for 9:05pr
I TO BC. CONTINUED.
b I BUCSr"is sponsored by Bayes' Bargain Basement^ where M7» of the merchandise is S07o off 30% of the time.

---------------------------------------------------

„•MBoauoijd • • • smo"i„
U0SJB1 ÁJBQ
Ag
"3 c«o 3SOOHO
7S3X1\1
•S3 xi\l
zzaB5f
îftliV
3BOá3g 88b!
zd7BzC 7b­t
3aod39XZ.bl
¦aai-dxj
¦331 d-d
B'aod-afl -zbbl
3-ao=i39 -h5bl
330j-3fl <5Lb\
330^33 09b\QOOVf csnoi fiW JO MOIS IH Í31H8 V
Ml
spjau ••uSriÇs
^ciNio,a9iusSm l/T t­­n2
TIsH 
Ti zB E
;sjmi no/ WJp //,// 'J'V'Jg
’rrrnFJFSn/ Hw.ijfy! yU’MI- h^Cl
¦¦/noitj/.Ap.tytuX 4*JK) noA àsni?2 us Jes- «*,% M0UX-/ i^OJO dui < 
V ¿hojQ-jyif! pip %öq pvo o£e 
JjoM 6/ /u/ uo ja» D polf z 
¿ m.A rrm ’Jnf*i/ue MW no/' yssjuj t> jj,no/'3pJ3g.
IPH UT 9Jn^-^ ureSy (Fd ‘ojsj ‘qo
^-c:Áuung jsnra y___>
)ir>pii*s '•'jm m««in *<i pj
Q3iV^0d»oJrti '«?//*) 3s 
3'JV/^0ld^3 y/3nS;^3K 01 awuH si in/rvs «J9HW sí hi_ «jao ias/wj. Moih/'A
-bMJûTlfiqi 3/uÇSVw 2H-L
ZBfsrtvaoyi I 'úalXsQ AQANHH
i bflIMâWwlS binai 3W TJ7 /¦S3J.VJS cailfvn TVlTOflll/NOP 3H1
sçoaw saWxoo aaood Jo
sgiiigç V bniiV3a:> nupgaiofMi wv I '3S00H 3HL H1IC7 N33*DÇ 
M NO CJVbd I CQHC? C?ON
0J5r Msishs noaiNoo <iiab1 * ¦“ azoica am )lu5g il Bzf77w 7X Xhdi3dB
lrfltfd 3drW V 31080jsnr i ;gaow s.saam.,
1-013310 mwwNOlNViJdlSbMiaavisNIV9V ION ‘ON ‘HO

---------------------------------------------------

/ CO/ UH. )WV£CMHrU6\a urn NBemmi $uaw/of, c&ipexs/ -wrneeor / ah mewcmtes/s-^%, < —-rp .
/..TAKg A&TOYmmim we, ucm- 
SUFFFfoK 
L6AP&K TONeoonm
W£FUTUF£ 
OF YOUR PLANer/s
'fmiwti, M&N/e. eARTHUM/.. y{f Lessee nm ms 
f A euttermm’O’, i SYWM-eMMM f/^-a/fa^p mtp /
\iW(t ' zLNTH/S <»£'6 At WHM, \tymmml, MKceaM/e, 
%n1II#1Y exam* '# >
Joe conTSnvK5 on kis <j,i*9T for Rckr^pUcn^J[Its i>etn
/ a bosy 
/ Y*ar-
' /v/oWj see 
TK*t b°x 
O'Jtr Tnfrt 7 TaSP 4*?
WWT-5wtfV> <« TV. 
S\Ct ^toP^-
vJe« f« » K05P 00 An)vnJ$ - 1. 
Vo^'re gc.nj .n 
^ ^«rJiaO o.og ej
) c/l'V- .
(Tomft)^' Hvro7 -IF I 5end ' 
him ont of TWoSe Subliwir’aJ rocifa^fS t->e’|l TVtVrhe 5 , 
c» S/ife of c^eeje °R >/ . Some-mroa.
AAAGH!
FlocrHnj S«* 
Waanaaa
(AhlGEi! N/15 ¡n t>i<. , af-t-cfv^oric/ •
\|0v; r^ec\o J 
v jonna ¿if •
/V^ a Cl q «. .'
jod, V0,/ ^ttA¦ft; Co.\^ .JoWn- J
IQ \AJO'Tldfif' yov/'cd
wnse Vo>/ rT
“„bt OfS-^O«¿rr'v ~'"
JiaST AS I T|6MaEt>-' 
park &KjywneRE
¡roQ\\ME C
R.EiAtMsaii' sohL 
Ml) 17oT^ Of TEfJi
londr you d/T6 
To SuppoTLT ahtS 
pEiS Crr/ MAK.CHW6T Bf0p7. y
¦OOfj’T U6T6U -0) 
H^R, |'W FfccM 
•rue Lf\uafLCouwT REPyGUCfc
.PftS-Ty
wouM) „OE LtHE ta 
guV R^Pft£ 
hf«TLh !o*. T^se/ 
err/ J.v. y— 
!ooh,Wn
Hi f>E 6ERh»S
lmrEi Co«NT-y qemocrmic p*ev/ 
ftkJb 1 Hope™^,JlGHfWW)
THEV wawbEH ^ n«E, iot>,
WHS Voter Twp-w- ) 1)0 1»» K|0«^ yow'Rt 
(JUT IS so LOU). . J PPIKET> IN At TOoJ- '  __  >—>—'f X ft oJAV 9ojJt’ ,
HI, I'M TAWN6 AtO f I'lA FROM 
EXIT Poll FoiZ.,v(I'CTion Ntwi, ----------—-jy——^\u>ouu\> vect
V> rAi Nit)....
VffTERi,RKiSTtttL4L
vV///fr^ SliAKIbl' MOTT?
wi-ff-we/e mtte 
WOULD you &0 TO
FM Tile MAMIN Orrr
NO, T//£ AUrKMCMLQ&E 
DFTH£UMm5£ KtUL.
to
'. 1592 HiV/oitt InC'OriiiiOuiKl 5/ Wunui f'tv. S/nactir ¿Zm««
The Identity Crisis by Sclh Ooldsldn and riihc Visconti
4____^The Identity Crisis
Joe the Circle
THAT'S A 'TOOM 0M£.
HAV£ you kIs I rmw 
LAMA ^
"Yes! Yes! That's it!... Just a little higher."
"Well, this isn’t very promising."
"Hey, Norton!... Ain’t that your dog 
attackin’ the president?"
pumftTHE t(JT£
Fom
K/fiJD ?
q
W ¦Hifettomtite
b/
0dg/ Rdgu7w
w.u, i90i%h pKXoHemrs 
Ur TV TW TASK/
WWez,vroried e
NW-MMUtfo.mFT-popom,
ex-M/mMM APP/cr. 
\ <
I i- £

---------------------------------------------------

AIDS:
a VqÏu ,pgu4p6tihp
Thursday, November 5 
WEH 7500 
7-8:30 pm
Presented By: 
Doctors of Carnegie 
(Pre-Med Club)
Mark Stein: CMU AlumnusLiving With HIV
Dr. Tony Sylvestri: Pitt Men's StudyPolitics of 
Research Funding
Dave Tucci: Pittsburgh AIDS 
Task Force
AIDS 101
Funded by Your Student Activities Fee
r-ü
OTi : & orí. 
lu ail: Jâllüi i«Howl|
NeXT, IBM, Northern Telecoi Adobe, Aldus; Lotus, Cqmj DEC, Hewlett Pbckard,IBM, Northern Telecom /mega,Adobe, Aldus, Lotus/ /flng Ser DEC, Hewlett >pple, WordIBM, Northern/ /m, Iomega,Adobe, Aldus/ /ompuling DEC, Hewk/ A Apple, 'IBM. Noi/ /cpmnr, lometAdobe,/ /, Computing SiDEC, Y yCkard, Apple, Wo!,IB Ay /telecomm, Iomega,AçK /Lotus, Computing Ser’
,ern Telecomm Iomega. Microsoft. idus;;: Lotus, Comiiewlett Packard, A|Northern Telecomm,, Aldus,. Lotus, Compì Hewlett Packard, • Apj Northern Telecomm,)ldus,! Lotus, Compì ewlett Packard, Appi V Northern Telecomm^ loi _{)e. Aldus, Lotus, Computing Hewlett Packard; Apple,.. Woi ¦ Northern. Telecomm, Iomega AldusMofus, Cqm'f5jj|j^'g. ~'i \Hewlett Packard, Apple,: 1sJorthern Telecomm.:; Aldus, Lotus, Compì gewieft Packard,:-Api ^rthern; Telecomm,Matul q¿k<?ì Ad olA T,pgIBM. : Northern Adobe, Aldus,- Loti DEC, He]IBM, N¡Adobe,DEC.IBM,
7r
^crosoft, DEC, Hewlett: Packard, Apple, V/drd-'Perfect, XT, IBM. Northern Telecomm, Iomega, Microsoft,' \dobe, Aldus, Lotus, Computino Services, NeXl, •EC, Hewlett Packard, Apple, Word Perfect, Northern Telecomm, Iomega, Microsoft, "¡Idus. Lotus, Computing Services, NeXT, Iewlett' Packard, Apple, Word Perfect, Northern Telecomm, Iomega, Microsoft, 'dus, Lotus, Computing Services, NeXT, ;wlett Packard, Apple, Word Perfect, ri horn Telecomm, Iomega; Microsoft , is; Lotus, Computing: Services, NeXT, ;lett Packard, Apple, Word Perfect, irthern Teiecomm, Iomega, Microsoft, è; Aldus, Lotus, Computing: Services, NeXT, D£C—Ul 1 ^ckard, Apple, Word Perfect,ìlecòmm, Iomega, Microsoft,¦ Computing Services, NeXT, ;ard, Apple,'Word Perfect, lecomm, Iomega; Microsoft, Computing Services, NeXT, :kard, Apple, Word Perfect,( Telecomm, Iomega/ Microsoft, s. Computing Services. NeXT, ’ackard, Apple, Word Perfect, ^ern Teiecomm, Iomega, Microsoft, Ts, Lotus, Computing Services, NrVI- vlett Packard, ApgTe. Word^~Irthern Telecomrr^^v'''k”:j^Odus, Lotus, Comp;[Hewlett Packard,Northern Teleca JrfecT^^ V Aldus, Lotus,.Gr (crosoft,cH£. Hewlett / Jh.(eXT, IBM, Nortfjí»^ y^oft,„Adobe;-: ^^^ÇTpmputing:: S/ VrçlêJÇT;-xf^ackard, Apoyr Perfect,jptherii ::TeÌètò mra/^ Microsoft;
COMPUTERPRODUCTS
t.lLT.v3 iòqC. .biOÍÍ
I.i t.irio:« t> \ J 0!jb9!
h: bru z::z\t . Liíoac 
jiii/o: a’fívol
Xll/m
Aldus, -Lotus, Coj S;Hewlett- :Pb¿jcg IBM, Northern 7,
r_._ryices,:' NëXT, Word Perfect. Iomega, ^Microsoft; puting Services, NeXT; r id, Apple. Word Perfect,' lecomm, Iomega, 'Microsoft, Computing-Services,--NeXT; ;ard, Apple, Word Perfect, [ecomm, Iomega, Microsoft, '.omputing Services, NeXT, rd, Apple, Word Perfect, comm, Iomega. Microsoft, '.omputing Services, NeXT, ;d, Apple, Word- Perfect, :omm, Iomega, Microsoft, imputing : Services; NeXT, Appje, Word Perfect, mmY'-lomega, Microsoft, ¦V: Computing; Services,
Skibo Ballroom 
10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
y47wu7gpB ­/ tcp lLO l7I4Gtpg yt7gp
±ZT%ÂÎ2[Jiiâl
BÍI0
¡.•Tßqy'H'HvrW
llsrio
i;od
Íioííú
ni
ftríoís
^TfTL'T
r r>nß —:H 
. : orli 
f¿Jühvilßl 
v.loO .ii'fq* ¡ »ißH
o-nnH
-•-"ff

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
The Prodigal Son dances 
into Benedum Center
By SYD RODRIGUEZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theater 
brings to the stage a modern mas­
terpiece in George Balanchine’s 
The Prodigal Son. The Russian 
choreographer retells the parable 
of a rebellious young son who 
leaves his family for the excite­
ment of city life, only to come 
back to his father begging for 
forgiveness.
City life had betrayed the son 
and left him without friends, 
home, or money. Balanchine’s 
retelling is less traditional than 
the original parable because of 
the inclusion of the son’s adven­
tures in the city.
Balanchine left Russia in 1924 
and was immediately invited to 
join Serge Diaghilu as a dancer, 
choreographer, and ballet mas­
ter for the prestigious Ballets 
Russes. Balachine’s stay with
Ballets Russes served as anl 
apprenticeship for the youngj 
choreographer who had al-] 
ready earned a reputation as f 
a dazzling dance master. His u 
time with the dance compnay i 
was fruitful due to the cre­
ation of Apollo and The Prodi­
gal Son. These works, now j 
considered masterpieces, 
premiered in 1928, 
when he was only 25 j 
years old.
The Prodigal Son 
was a major collabora­
tion between the com­
poser Sergei Proko­
fiev, designer Georges 
Rouault, and chore­
ographer Bala- 
chine. Cut- 
ting- 
e d g e and 
ahead of its 
time when it pre-
miered, the choreography re­
mains just as imiovative today. 
Critic John Martin wrote in 1950: 
“It is a sturdy, substantial, and 
meaty piece of choreography, with 
just enough fresh and creative 
material in it to supply 10 bal­
lets. It is gauche and cruel, funny 
and naïve, lascivious and 
tender... .It moves with direct and 
dramatic force, through fantasti- 
f cally perceptive and dar- 
V ing episodes, to a conclu­
sion of irresistible emo­
tional character.”
The Prodigal Son is being 
performed at the Pittsburgh Bal­
let Theater from November 5-8. 
The Pittsburgh Ballet’s Rush Pro­
gram offers tickets to students at 
50 percent of regular seat prices. 
Tickets are available only at the 
Benedum Center box office on 
Seventh Street at Penn and Lib- 
r erty Avenues.
courtosy of Pittsburgh Ballot Thoatro
A7­pgt ,pgB•i7nd 6gpdtihpn/ 4g7BG6pu d "upwup 7o ciut7g/H
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
Robert Perdziola (Drama, 1983) has awed audiences, mainly 
opera, with his beautiful costume and set designs. His story is one of 
a Pittsburgh boy who struggled to survive in a big city but overcame 
the difficulties that are part of the business. The result is his fame. 
His costume and set designs are at a premium for many operas, 
ballets, and currently, movies.
He started by scene painting for the theater on and off Broadway. 
Two years later, he began scenic designs for the Metropolitan Opera. 
Since then, the doors have been opening for Perdziola.
Perdziola has ventured into projects that include costume and set 
designs for the San Francisco Opera Company, Santa Fe Opera, 
Saint Louis Opera Theater, Canadian Opera Company, Glimmerglass 
Opera, San Francisco Ballet, the Manhattan School of Music, and 
more.
Perdziola was involved in an update of a Greek tale, La Calisto. He 
costume-sketched this 1989 production for the Santa Fe production. 
It is a story of the god, Jove. He descends to the earth in order to 
seduce Calisto, a faithful follower of the goddess, Diana. Diana is the 
goddess of the hunt, virginity, and the moon. Calisto practices purity 
and does not succumb to Jove’s passes. So Jove transforms into a 
Diana look-alike, in order to attain Calisto’s attention. (Calisto and 
pseudo-Diana have an affair. So, I’m assuming lesbianism does not 
count as losing one’s virginity.) Jove’s wife, Juno, finds out about 
Jove’s unfaithfulness, becomes furious, and turns Calisto into a bear.
Jove pities her and places her in the 
sky as a constellation, making her 
safe from his wife’s fury. The stereo­
typical way to costume this Greek 
myth would be to design togas and 
grapes. But this opera was imple­
mented in order to “play on the 
sexual sides [through] high couture 
and futuristic things,” Perdziola 
says.
A “period piece” for the scenery in 
the up-and-coming Martin Scorsese 
film, The Age of Innocence, was re­
cently completed by Perdziola. The 
film, starring Daniel Day-Lewis,
Michelle Pfeiffer, and Winona Ryder, 
will be released next year. As assis­
tant art director in the movie,
Perdziola recreated New York City 
in the 1880s. This entailed repro­
ducing the no-longer-standing New 
York Academy of Music, originally 
located on Fourth Street. Perdziola said much time and 
research was necessary in order for the entire composition to 
come together.
But what was more interesting was that he gained a 
Please see Perdziola, page L12
Ruth Rasmussen/Tartan Assistant Forum 
EditorRepresented from left to right are the characters Jove, Calisto, and Diana from La Calisto. Watercolor sketches are by Robert Perdziola.
N3ci­it Bpnhpu iwt7 tcp 47niti6u 7o dgt
By KRISTEN BEVERIDGE
Tartan Staffwriter
With the 1992 Presidential election 
well at hand, what could be a more 
appropriate thought-provoker than CFA 
graduate student Andrew Johnson’s in­
stallation, “President’s Day Sale,” cur­
rently on exhibition at the CMU’s 
Hewlett Gallery? This installation is 
one in which viewer interaction and 
participation is vital. Don’t expect to 
walk into the Hewlett and experience 
“President’s Day Sale” without being 
challenged to think aboutcurrent Ameri­
can government and political issues and 
how each individual has a personal re­
sponsibility in promoting progress and 
change in the U.S.
In the front room of the gallery, 
Johnson has three TV monitors, each 
running a separate video involving fire 
and flames which have occurred during 
Bush’s presidency. One depicts fires from 
the Gulf War, another from the L.A. 
dots, and the third from an Act Up AIDS 
rally during the Republican National 
Convention. This room has also been 
split into two vertical sections—the top 
half of the room is separated from the 
bottom by a sheer screen.
In the center if one looks upward, 
there is a small tree representing George 
Bush, and around the moulding of the 
Wiling the phrases “EDUCATION 
PRESIDENT, ENVIRONMENTAL 
PRESIDENT, KINDER AND lÇwp
tDÇn NATION AND WE ARE THE 
DREAM TEAM” written in large, gold 
letters. “The screen,” says Johnson, “is 
used to show the separation and inac- 
cessibility of government, especially the 
President.” Directly under the tree on 
the wood floor is a pile of elephant dung, 
^gnifying what the American people 
mean to the President and how they
perceive themselves in the eyes of poli­
ticians.
The second room of the Hewlett is also 
divided into two sections by scaffolding. 
There is a sign at the dividing line that 
reads, “Maximum Occupancy 1% of the 
Population,” which means that only a 
few can be on the top of the scaffolding 
at a given time. These people are sym­
bolic of the small population of wealthy 
elite. Underneath the scaffolding on the 
ground are gold plates on which are 
written American social statistics since 
1988 when Bush was elected President, 
like “Americans Unemployed for Six 
Months or More up 133%. National Defi­
cit up 157%. Americans on Death Row 
up 22%.”
The scaffolding can be ascended by 
stairs, and it is here that the viewer is 
truly asked to participate. First of all, as 
in the first room, there are gold letters 
around the molding that read “JOIN 
ME IN OUR NEW CRUSADE TO REAP 
THE REWARDS OF OUR GLOBAL 
VICTORY.” In this section of the instal­
lation, individuals are invited to answer 
four questions on a questionnaire. After 
it is completed, the individual must walk 
around the scaffolding, examining other 
people’s questionnaires which have been 
completed and dropped into frames 
hanging on the walls.
A shade can be pulled down over the 
responses with which the viewer dis­
agrees. When viewers find responses 
similar to their own, they can slide their 
sheet into place over top of it inside the 
frame, which causes the composition of 
this section to change continually. This 
is one of the artist’s chief aims in the 
piece.
The four questions asked: “What do 
you think are the most important prob­
lems facing the U.S.A. today? What are 
you personally doing to improve these
situations? What in your opinion in­
hibits resolving these problems? What 
image do you have of the U.S.A.?” He 
also calls for a self -description, al­
though this is optional. Many of the 
answers given by the viewers are simi­
lar — many people have written in 
response to question one that the defi­
cit, racism, poverty, education, and la­
ziness are the major current problems 
facing us. Sometimes there will be a 
very original answer. One person wrote 
that the major problem is that fact that 
he is not famous yet, and continued to 
say that our difficulties will be resolved 
when he becomes famous. In terms of 
question two, not many people seem to 
be doing anything right now to change 
our situation. Most said that they are 
active voters and some are involved in 
community service, but that’s about 
all. Question three, asking for Ameri­
can inhibitions, derives ideas such as 
bureaucracy, politics, and lack of faith 
or hope in the country. “Ego problem” is 
a common view point for question four 
on the image of America, along with 
the fact that our leadership is poor. 
One person said that his image of 
America was that it looks like a steak. 
There are probably many more inter­
esting responses in the boxes Johnson 
has collected since the opening of the 
installation on October 16.
Even if you can’t make it to the 
Hewlett Gallery to experience this 
thought-provoking exhibit, these issues 
are ones which we all need to be con­
templating, especially at this point in 
our nation’s life.
Hopefully it will encourage people to 
take these problems in America to 
heart and to start acting to promote 
change in our society. These are cer­
tainly things that artist Johnson is 
asking us to ponder.
Sampling African art at Carnegie
By MEGAN GURGON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A Mercedes Benz-shaped coffin, red 
and green molded plastic dolls, and a 
pair of Chi Wara headdresses are a 
few of the 130 innovative objects visi­
tors can view at The Carnegie Mu­
seum during the exhibition, African 
Explorers: 20th Century African Art, 
which runs from this Saturday through 
January 10. The broad selection of art 
reveals the rich and 
complex modem cul­
ture resulting from 
the merging of many 
different forms of vi­
sual, intellectual, 
and historical dimen­
sions.
“The exhibition 
challenges two wide­
ly held misconcep­
tions abgut 20 th cen­
tury Africa: that its 
traditional art be­
longs to a culture glo­
rious but extinct; and 
that there is no mod­
ern African art, 
merely a second­
hand version of 
Western art,” says Susan Vogel, cura­
tor of the exhibition and executive 
director of The Center for African Art, 
New York, where the travelling exhi­
bition originated.
Western contact has been influen­
tial in 20th-century Africa addi ng ideas 
and imagery to the matrix of already 
existing African art forms. The broad 
range of expression presented in the 
exhibition demonstrates the continu­
ing vitality of traditional art, which 
coexists today with modern art 
uniquely African.
courtosy of Carnegie Museum of Art A pair of Chi Wara Headdresses made of wood and raffia.
Contrary to popular belief, African 
societies are not static; they are con­
tinually changing. European political 
and economic presence during the co­
lonial period introduced numerous 
changes for African society and cul­
ture. Repercussions from these influ­
ences echo throughout the 20th cen­
tury since most African nations be­
came independent during this period. 
These changes have had a profound 
effect on artists of Africa, and is re­
flected in the styles 
of expression. Much 
of 20th century Afri­
can art attempts to 
define the character 
of contemporary Af­
rican culture and to 
negotiate Africa’s re­
lationship to the 
West, to Islam, to 
Christianity, and to 
its own artistic heri­
tage. The artwork in 
African Explorers re­
flects an assortment 
of media and styles, 
and is arranged into 
five categories pro­
viding a conceptual 
framework for de­
scribing African art in the 20th cen­
tury. They are called New Functional 
art, Traditional art, International art, 
Urban art, and Extinct art.
In celebration of African Explorers, 
The Carnegie Museum is hosting an 
array of lectures and events focusing 
on the historical, social, and artistic 
implications of the exhibition. More 
information on the specifics can be 
obtainedduringmuseum hours:Tues- 
day through Saturday from 10 am to 5 
pm and Sunday from 1-5 pm. Admis­
sion is $3.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992
Either/Orchestra spices up coffehouse
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Production Manager
When I hear “ big band,” it us­
ually calls to mind a picture of 
silver-haired men sitting up on 
the stage of a local dance hall 
swinging to the tunes of Goodman. 
With all due respect to Benny 
Goodman, it’s not exactly the pin­
nacle of avante garde jazz sound, 
if you know what I mean.
. The 10-member band Either/Or­
chestra, a big band by all technical 
terms, certainly ripped through 
the seams of this ill-fitting defini­
tion when it blew into the Tilted 
Square this past Monday at 8 pm, 
promoting its most recent release, 
,The Calculus of Pleasure.
As the name implies, Either/ 
'Orchestra is able to give listeners 
the best of both worlds—interest­
ing new music with the full sound 
of big band orchestrations. The 
performance Monday night proved 
that not only can it play the clas­
sics with life and beauty but also 
innovative new songs with lots of 
interesting, whacked-out sounds.
. The band opened with “Grey,” 
(composed by Bob Nieske, the 
band’s upright bass player who 
was not present at Monday 
evening’s performance) a beauti­
ful soft ballad which featured a 
bass solo by John Turner and an 
incredibly moving flugelhorn solo 
by John Carlson (which just goes 
to prove that brass instruments 
really can sound great if they’re 
played right).
Other songs performed in the 
first set were “The Look of Love,” 
a Burt Bacharach tune of James 
Bond fame; a brand new song 
called “H.A.C.,” which featured 
some really interesting percussion 
support and a trombone solo by 
Russel Jewell; and “There’s a Bus 
That’s Leaving Soon for Alvin 
Berg’s House,” a tune almost as
interesting as its name, in which 
the band pulled together tight 
enough to make this one of the 
best performances of the first 
set.
After a short break during 
which the band members came 
down off the stage and mingled 
with the small coffeehouse 
crowd, they opened up with 
“Bennie Moten’s Weird Night­
mare” — my favorite song from 
their latest release—which fea­
tures a bass clarinet that lopes 
at an elephant’s pace through a 
dream world created by the rest 
of the band. The band continued 
the second set with two arrange­
ments of more classic jazz tunes: 
Duke Ellington’s “Prelude to a 
Kiss,” which featured an excel­
lent sax solo by Andrew d’Angelo 
and McCoy Tyner’s “Vision,” 
which featured many good solos 
by various members of the en­
semble, and was also one of the 
most together pieces of the 
evening.
The band seemed to be get­
ting better as the 
evening pro­
gressed, and 
left its best 
performance 
for last. “Circle 
Bad,” the band’s 
strange mutated 
synthesis of 
Miles Davis’
“Circle in the 
Round” and 
Ellington’s “I 
Got it Bad 
and I Got it 
Good,” was, with­
out a doubt, the hot- 
test piece of the 
whole night. This 
long piece began with 
an absolutely amazing 
free-form improvisation by 
Turner on upright bass that
went on for a full two minutes 
before any other members dared 
to stop him. The rest of the en­
semble came in, gradually build­
ing from a whisper, playing 
calmly, but this proved only to be 
a set-up for a musical shouting 
match between d’Angelo on sax 
and Tom Halter on trumpet, 
which resulted in high but well- 
controlled musical screams from 
each and shouts of admiration 
from their fellow group members.
After cooling off from this 
heated debate, the ensemble came 
back in full force and built from 
there, creating a mass synergism 
of sound and frenzy that just 
wouldn’t let up. A sort of chaotic 
madness that, in the end, seemed 
somehow to relate a kind of musi­
cal reason. It left me with goose 
bumps for a good three minutes 
after it was finished.
Then, after a wave of applause, 
the band broke into a soothing 
rendition of Dylan’s “Lay Lady 
Lay” — a much-needed depres­
sant after the energy of “Circle 
Bad” — before it said 
goodbye and promised to 
come back to Pittsburgh. 
I once was told that 
white jazz musicians 
could never be any 
good because they 
have no soul. Af- 
¦ ter seeing these 
guys, I don’t 
think I’ll believe 
that ever again. 
Make sure you 
see them the 
next time 
they come 
to Pitts­
burgh. I 
promise it 
will be 
worth the 
wait.
Historic periods pieced by Perdzioia
Engineering Students:
Scp oGtGgp 7o dGt7I7tihp 
pwCiwppgiwC iu 67IiwC /7Gg Xd/v
Meet will) a representative of Ford Motor Company, and you’ll gel a taste of the 21st century. Our engineers are using culling edge technologies to take automotive development into the new era,
Al Ford, we are using simultaneous engineering to integrate manufacturing requirements into our products at the earliest design stages, bringing Product Engineers, Manufacturing I '.ngineers. and Facilities Fngineers closer together. Our engineering functions are not sequential events, but cooperative, interactive efforts.
If you will graduate with a B.S.. M.S., or Ph.D. degree in F.lcctrical, Mechanical, Chemical, or Materials Engineering and have an interestin Product Design, Development, Testing, or Manufacturing Engineering, look into what Ford has 10 offer.
For more information, visit your career placement office.
Don't miss this unique opportunity to take your talents into the future with Ford Motor Company. We look forward to meeting you!
All interests I .utttlems are cordially invited to attend an information session at Skilm Hall 
Room 11)11. 7:.i0-V:00 p.m., Tuesday November 3rd. Please dress casually. Refreshments 
will lie provided.
- .'i'.
!Tpr.- y
A Ford development team examines a flexible fuel 
vehicle at the Dearborn Proving Grounds.
PERDZIOLA, from page Lll
different perspective within the drama industry 
because the pace in a movie was faster .He says it 
is “miserable and difficult [due to the] artistic 
temperament and insecurities” as well as the 
time constraint. For example, there is the prob­
lem of meeting the preconceived high expecta­
tions of the director, or if “one [director] has bad 
taste.” In other words, it appears to be more like 
a psychological game where one must convince 
the director of the artist’s visual sense. Also, 
flexibility is needed in order to combine the 
designer’s and director’s visions.
A period piece differs greatly from designing a 
kitchen because a period piece entails acquiring 
information and being able to take the informa­
tion and reproduce it in a his­
torically correct and visually 
pleasing way. The end result is, 
as Perdzioia states, “one vision” 
which seems as if it is the ex­
pression of one person, although 
it is the consensus of the group, 
the director, the actors, and 
more.
In the case of the Scorsese 
movie, there was the problem 
of the different environment in 
the 1880s in terms of lighting, 
drapery, and wallpaper. Also 
tremendous amounts of an-
tiques were needed, and were not readily available.
A costume designer is different from a fashion 
designer because a costume designer investigates 
the historical and geographical placement of a char­
acter in order to capture the look of the character. 
Fashion designers design for the public and do not 
have to, as Perdzioia mentions, “realize a character;” 
A costume designer “recreates a sense of history.”
All of this adds to the excitement of the film, arid 
it pushes an artist’s limitations in order to create tH!e 
best possible work within the time frame. Perdzioia 
believes one must “rise to the occasion,” so a project 
becomes fun. He also feels the most fulfilling work 
was the result from a good working environment 
because one creates better that way.
Ruth Rasmussen/Tartan Assistant Forum Editor A set sketch for The Nose, an opera based on Nicolai Gogel’s short story of the same name.SAVE 
$3.00 !
Offer good Monday through Friday, 
9am-3pm with 
Please brin& _ 
May not be used in conjunctior 
with any other offer.TTThT an, hTTTeT uiiCT.
Expires 11/21/92
LEWIS’HAIRSALON
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
Diversions needs a few good men.
Diversions needs a few good women.
ite tor us.
ytdoo IpptiwCu dgp phpg/ 
(pBwpuBd/ dt V 4IM 
kg 6dnn bdg­dgd 7g Sdgd dt 3YUUU §

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 2 November 1992L13
Thursday, November 5
Where Angels Fear To Tread
E.M. Forster’s Where Angels Fear to Tread was called “a stinging comedy of manners” by Rolling 
•Stone magazine. The name E.M. Forster should ring a bell. He is the author of the beautiful and .brilliant novel, A Room With a View.Here director Charles Sturridge has captured Forster’s wit and wisdom, the essence of the novel. This “elegant comedy of manners” stars Helen Mirren as Lilia, a strong-willed widow who be­comes enamored with her Italian lover. She impul­sively marries him despite the disapproval of her conservative upper-class in-laws. Where Angels 
Fear To Tread also stars Helena Bonham-Carter, Judy Davis, Rupert Graves, Barbara Jefford, and Giovanni Guidelli.So if you’re a Forster fan or simply in the mood for sophisticated sappiness, Where Angels Fear to 
Tread is great entertainment for your dollar.¦ ; At 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Friday, November 6
Batman Returns
What I think happened here was that there were eight or nine proposed screenplays for this movie, and somehow they all got mushed up into one, and then someone used about half the pages for a shopping list. The producers decided to compen­sate with Danny DeVito and many explosions. The end.In this sequel to the wallet-vacuuming 1989 blockbuster, Batman takes on the villainous Pen­guin and Catwoman, played by Michelle Pfieffer, for reasons that are never made particularly clear.The fast-paced fun of seeing a favorite hero onscreen is completely overwhelmed by the abso­lute absurdity and unfollowability of the storyline. Subplots fly out of the blue and disappear without . jurther mention.Dramatic action is nil or less, because the Caped Crusader is never in danger for more than 30 seconds. The dialogue makes one wince. See this one only if you’re obscenely bored.At 5, 7, 9,11 pm, and 1 am.
Saturday, November 7
Lethal Weapon 3
Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, and Joe Pesci are together again in Lethal Weapon 3. This time our favorite cops, after indulging in some pointless police brutality by harassing a jaywalker (which is unsettling in the wake of the Rodney King trial and the L.A. riots), take on a former cop gone bad.Renée Russo plays an officer in the department’s internal affairs department who joins Gibson and Glover on this case, since the bad guy is stealing weapons confiscated by the police and selling them on the street.Predictably enough, Russo and Gibson get ro­mantically involved. The big question is whether or not she’ll make it to the end of the movie alive or kick off like Gibson’s love interest in Lethal Weapon 
2 and his wife before the first Lethal Weapon.If you liked the first two, you’ll like the third one. It’s the worst of the three, but not bad, especially if you’re feeling bloodthirsty. Worth the dollar.At 5:50, 8,10 pm, and 12:15 am.
Sunday, November 8
Heavy Metal
Evidence that you don’t need to take screenwriting courses to graduate from animation school, Heavy Metal embodies the definition of gaudy sci-fi. This cult favorite is divided into sev­eral loosely-related mini-stories, some of which are amusing, and others of which are exercises in mass gore.Most are drenched with overblown sexual fan­tasy that suggests that the animators really needed to get out more. Don’t expect much plot, but there’s enough amusement value and good one-liners to warrant spending a dollar to see it — once.At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By HEIDI HOOVER, BARBARA REYES & MIKE SHAPIRO
" ~ Ramones go Mondo Bizzaro at CMU
PREVIEW
Lemonheads will be doing that 
funky Lemonhead thing this Fri­
day night, November 6, at 
Metropol. July will be the open­
ing act. The show starts at 7:30 
pm, and it's all ages. You do, 
however, have to pay them $8 in 
advance, or $10 at the door (plus 
service charge).
Lemonheads got their first taste 
of big-time alternative success in 
1990 with the release of their 
debut album, Lovey, which made 
the top 10 on the U.S. alternative 
charts. It was also huge in Ger­
many. Their next album was the 
CD5 maxi-single, Favorite Span­
ish Dishes, which contained some 
“quirky” cover songs and a couple 
of songs written by singer/guitar­
ist/songwriter Evan Dando. Their 
newest album, It’s a Shame About 
Ray, “combines pop, folky strums 
and heavy rock dynamics to 
achieve their post-modern 
sounds.”
Dando, the only remaining 
charter member of the six-year- 
old Lemonheads, wrote the al­
bum while on a solo tour in Aus­
tralia with co-writer, Tom Mor­
gan. Dando was inspired to write 
the song when “one moring we 
were reading the paper and [Tom] 
brought to my attention this story 
about a kid who couldn’t stay in 
school or something and it said in 
the last paragraph, ‘It’s a shame 
about Ray.’ We just freaked out 
about it.” Having been sufficiently 
freaked, Dando headed back to 
the states and hooked up with 
drummer David Ryan, who 
played on Lovey, and bassist 
Juliana Hatfield.
If you want to get in on all the 
folky strums and post-modern 
sound Lemonheads have to offer, 
tickets are on sale now at se­
lected National Record Marts, 
Cogo’s, Home’s Downtown, and 
the Palumbo Center box office. 
To pay with plastic, call 391-1111.
—Andy Vaughan
courtesy of Premier Talent Agency
By ANDY VAUGHAN
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
The Ramones are coming to 
Carnegie Mellon on Friday at 7 
pm and will play in our own 
humble Skibo Ballroom courtesy 
of AB and your Activities Fee. 
Opening will be Overwhelming 
Colorfast and Social Distortion.
This legendary quartet has just 
released a new album, Mondo 
Bizarro, which Joey Ramone calls 
“the best Ramones album ever.” 
Marky Ramone puts in his two 
cents, saying, “It’s a real Ramones’ 
album, and I think that sums it 
up.” So do I.
The Ramones have been around 
forever — 18 years, which is 
pretty much forever to the aver­
age college student. They are per­
haps one of the most influential 
rock bands to ever grace the 
planet. Spin magazine raved 
about the group: “No group in the 
last 18 years has been more im­
portant or influential, including 
the Sex Pistols (who probably
couldn’t have existed without 
The Ramonos).”
Their 1976 self-titled debut al­
bum is often heralded as a musi­
cal landmark. Ifthat’s notenough 
to make you fall in love with 
them, their ’76 tour of England is 
cited by many punk historians 
as “the spark that ignited the 
British punk explosion.”
The two opening acts for this 
legendary, ground-breaking, 
trend-setting, influential, revo­
lutionary group are not too 
shabby themselves. Social Dis­
tortion is the only band to come 
out of L.A. in the 1979-1983 era 
that has survived and flourished. 
Overwhelming Colorfast is a 
relatively new band from the San 
Francisco Bay region and is, I 
suppose, showing much prom­
ise.
Social Distortion’s musical 
style is best summed up by its 
founder and songwriter, Mike 
Ness: “The music I wanted to do 
was a mix of blues, country, and 
Ramones-y punk.” Whether or 
notRamones-y is actually a word, 
Mike Ness and his band have 
put out some darn good songs, 
such as “Ball and Chain” and 
“Story of My Life.” Their new 
album, Somewhere Between 
Heaven and Hell, is produced by 
Dave Jerden, who has produced 
for Jane’s Addiction and The Red 
Hot Chili Peppers. The album is
best described by the eloquent 
Noss who says, “It’s like a 
soundtrack to thoso old toonage 
exploitation films. Bikor hot rod 
rock ’n' roll marijuana orgy films. 
And it’s about love. Dangerous, 
desperate lovo.” Sounds fun.
Overwhelming Colorfast hails 
from Antioch, California, a town 
that boasts a very smelly paper 
mill that natives claim “could 
shrivel the brain of a hippo.” Not 
to say that their music stinks, I’m 
sure it doesn’t, but one must won­
der what influence the smelly 
paper mill has had on group’s 
musical style. Actually, it can be 
described as “a collage of sounds 
spanning the last three decades 
— Black Sabbath to Soul Asy­
lum” and “Husker Du meets the 
Beatles.” Overwhelming Colot- 
fast’s latest album is a self-titled 
LP produced by Butch Vig, who 
has produced for Smashing 
Pumpkins and L7. Front man 
Bob Reed says, “We just set out to 
make the best power-packed 
music we could. Listen and be­
lieve.”
Don’t miss this musical extrava­
ganza happening right here in 
the Ballroom. If you want to be a 
part of this revolutionary, ground­
breaking, marijuana-orgy-fihn- 
ing, listoning-and-belioving, pa­
per mill-smelling music-fost, tick­
ets are on salo now for just $1 at 
tho Skibo Information Desk.
Uni vv r loinri’ARt!/coi TsTt numi ion
POINT PARK COLLEGE 
THEATRE COMPANY 
presents
November 4-22 
Call(412) 621-4445
(Visn/MC) • Also nt T1X
A farcical comedy
by Pcicr Hornier 
Directed by Kathryn Aronson
In tho Theatre Downstairs
Tickets: $7
at the Playhouse 
Box Office
ON THE VERGE at the plAy&owt, 222 Craft Avenue, Pah, PA 15213 
^ STUDENT half-price tickets, 1/2 hour before show
MANNES
The Galimir String QuartetFelix Galimir, Violin Hiroko Yajima, Violin Steven Tenenbom, Viola Timothy Eddy, Violoncello
The Mannes TrioHiroko Yajima, Violin Melissa Meell,. Violoncello Diane Walsh, Piano
The Newman-Oltman Guitar DuoMichael Newman Laura Oltman
Stringed InstrumentsNina Beilina, Violin Alexander Cores, Violin Felix Galimir, Violin Shirley Givens, Violin Raymond Gniewek, Violin Lewis Kaplan, Violin Ani Kavafian, Violin David Nadien, Violin Aaron Rosand, Violin Anne Setzer, Violin Sally Thomas, Violin Hiroko Yajima, Violin Lillian Fuchs, Viola Rosemary Glyde, Viola Karen Ritscher, Viola Steven Tenenbom, Viola Walter Trampler, Viola Myung Wha Chung, 
Violoncello Timothy Eddy, Violoncello Melissa Meell, Violoncello Paul Tobias, Violoncello Julius Levine, Double Bass Homer Mensch, Double Bass
PianoEdward Aldwell Arkady Aronov Stephanie Brown Vladimir Feltsman Richard Goode Grant Johannesen Lilian Kallir Leon Pommers Marie Powers Josef Raieff Peter Serkin Nina Svetlanova Diane Walsh
Organ and Church Musk:Ford Lallerstedt McNeil Robinson
HarpGloria Agostini Lucile Lawrence 
Timpani and PercussionNorm Freeman Ben Herman Howard Van Hyning
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
Artistry & CommunityAt Mannes they go together. The skills, understanding and originality of arlislry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive community. That's why Mamies graduates succeed.
Woodwinds and BrassJudith Mendenhall, Flute Elaine Douvas, Oboe John Ferrillo, Oboe Mark Hill, Oboe Linda Strommen, Oboe William Blount, Clarinet Peter Simenauer, Clarinet David Carroll, Bassoon Leonard Hindell, Bassoon Judith Leclair, Bassoon Allen Won, Saxophone Ranier Delntinis, French bom David Jolley, French bom Philip Myers, French bom Mel Broiles, Tmmpet Vincent Penzarella, Tmmpet Per Brevig, Trombone Donald Harwood,
Bass trombone Stephen Johns, Tuba David Taylor, Brass 
Chamber Music
ConductingMichael Charry, Orchestral Amy Kaiser, Choral
NEW YORK OIY AUDniONS:
January 6,1993;
March 1,2,3,4,5,1993;
May 10,11,12,13,14,1993; 
August dates to be announced.
Chicago;February 2,1993 at Curtiss Hall,Fine Aits Building.
San Francisco:February 3,1993 at War Memorial Opera House.
Los Angeks:Febnrary 4,1993 at The Music Center of Los Angeles County.
Classical GuitarFrederic Hand Herbert Levine Michael Newman David Starobin 
Composition Christine Beri Robert Cuckson Charles Jones David Loeb David Tcimpidis 
Contemporary Ensemble Madeleine Shapiro, 
Director
Percussion EnsembleJim Preiss, Director 
Historical Performance EnsemblesThe Mannes Baroque Chamber Players,Nancy Wilson, Director The Mannes Camerata, Paul Echols, Director The Mannes Baroque Ensemble, Arthur Haas, 
Director
DictionMarianne Barrett, German Nico Castel, French, 
German & Italian Robert Cowan, Italian Kathryn LaBouff, English Palma Tosoni, French
MovementPhilip Burton
OperaPaul Echols, Chairman Christopher Alden Renato Capecchi Will Crutchfield Joan Domemann Benton Hess Rhoda Levine
Song InterpretationAntonia Lavannc
Techniques of MusicElizabeth Aaron Edward Aldwell Poundie Burstein Terry Champlin Robert Cuckson Leo Edwards Steven Freides David Gagne Charles Jones Larry Laskowski David Loeb Mei-Mei Meng William Needelman Frank Nemhauser Marie Powers Carl Schachter
History and Literature of MusicFrederic Fehleisen, M.A., 
History of Music Deborah Davis, M.A., M.S., 
Graduate Studies L. Michael Griffel, Ph.D., 
Graduate Studies, 
Literature of Music Joseph Horowitz, M.A.
Graduate Studies Charles Kaufman, Ph.D.
History of Music Kenneth Stern, Ph.D., 
Studies in Opera History
Programs of study:Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Science, Master of Music, Diploma and Post-Graduate Diploma, Professional Studies Certificate
Major studies:All orchestral instruments, piano, harpsichord, organ, voice and opera, guitar, composition, theory and conducting.
Dormitory rooms.
Scholarships awarded /All major«
For additional Information about the College, Application and Audition appointment:Write or all Marilyn Groves, Director of Admissions,The Mannes College of Music, 150 West 85th Street,New York, N.Y. 10024, 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210. A division of the New School for Social Research.

---------------------------------------------------

A
OmN\j£UUul
Admission toallDH2210 films is$l for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
The Best Intentions plays at the Play­
house through November 25. Show time 
'is 7 pm nightly.
CMU Women’s Center presents movie 
night Friday with Thelma & Louise at 
7 pm and Sammy and Rosie Get Laid at 
9:20 pm.
Where Angels Fear to Tread plays in 
DH 2210 on Thursday. Shows are at 6, 
8, and 10 pm.
Batman Returns shows in DH 2210 
on Friday at 5, 7, 9, and 11 pm, and 1 
am.
Lethal Weapon 3 plays in DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 5:45,8, and 10:10 pm, and 
12:20 am.
Jfleavy Metal plays in DH 2210 on 
Sunday. Show times are 6, 8,10, and 
midnight.
The Inner Circle plays in PH 100 
Friday at 7 pm. Sponsored by the Mod­
ern Languages Program. Admission is 
free.
WÊÊaÊÊBÊBBBm
Foreign language table will be held 
each week of the Fall semester. Mon­
days: Hebrew Language Table (spon- 
soredbyHillel)ll:30-l:OOinMorewood 
Cafeteria; Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de 
(Japanese “Brown Bag” Lunch) at 12:00 
in BH 160. Tuesdays: Russkii Chas 
(Russian) 12:00-1:30 in Morewood Caf­
eteria. Wednesdays :LaT,able Francaise 
(French) 11:30-1:15 in Morewood Caf­
eteria; La Mesa Espailola (Spanish) 
11:30-1:00 in Morewood Cafeteria. 
Thursdays: Deutscher Stammtisch 
(German) 11:30-12:45 in Morewood 
¡Cafeteria. Sponsored by the Modern 
Language Program.
Spirit meeting is Tuesday at 7 pm in 
'Smith Hall 220. Buffalo wings and fries 
sorved. Call x4381 for information.
¡Student Senate will not be meeting 
this week due to national elections. 
Meetings are usually held every Tues­
day in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. All 
students are welcome to attend.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) 
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
Activities at CMU. We offer BOC and 
opportunities for business contacts. All 
majors are welcome. Questions? Call 
Aurora at x8310.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Wo­men’s Discussion Group meets Tues­
days at 7:30 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center. Questioning? Positively sure? 
Come to the discussion group for 
friendly talk and fun.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 
pm in the CMU Women’s Center. Con­
tact Shel Strictland at x3595 for infor­
mation.
Orientation ’93 planning is under­
way. Counselor applications are avail­
able in the Office of Student Affairs. 
Contribute ideas by posting comments 
on assocs.orientation93. Contact Tony 
DeRoss at x4649 for information.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project (CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody­
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101
TMs & ©1992 DC Comics Inc.
Michael Keaton stars In Warner Brothers' Batman Returns, showing In DH 2210 Friday at 5,7,9, and 11 pm, and 1 am. Michelle Pfeiffer costars as Catwoman with Danny DeVito as the Penguin, the embodiments of the evils from which -- —¦— *-----iict Gotham City.
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics I, 24-141 Statics 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His­
tory, 85-100 Cognitive Process, and 88- 
103 Decision Making. CMAP tutoring 
takes place Sunday through Thursday 
from 6 to 9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. Call 
x2150 for more information.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5 to 7 
pm, in addition to regular weekday 
office hours.
official.career-center is a bboard in 
its second year of operation on which 
you can access occupational outlook 
data, workshop information, new Ca­
reer Library book notices, campus in­
terview postings, and job leads for school 
year/off campus, summer, and profes­
sional employment. All majors and 
class levels are encouraged to subscribe 
and take advantage of the information.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 
1507, will have open office hours for 
students from 2 to 3 pm each Tuesday 
and Friday until December 15. During 
these times, a staff member is available 
to discuss legal problems, such as secu­
rity deposits and leases, that are re­
lated to University life. They will not 
provide legal assistance for personal 
legal matters but can make referrals to 
attorneys in private practice.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 7 to 9 pm in Activity 
Room A of the Gymnasium. The club 
also meets on Sundays from 2 to 4 pm. 
For more information, contact Chris 
Demlein by emailing cd2b or calling 
X4179.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okina­
wan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet­
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathe­
dral of Learning Room 236. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is 
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at The Cathedral of 
Learning. Free of charge. For more 
information, contact Rabbi Shmuel 
Weinstein at 683-7770.
11 am in the Central Christian Church 
(134 N. Dithridge). For more informa­
tion, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in the chapel lo­
cated on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. For more informa­
tion, contact campus minister Hank 
Suhr at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
Lectures
The Department of Psychology pre­
sents Bonnie John from CMU on Tues­
day at noon in BH 355 as part of the 
CMU Colloquium Series. Call x2781 
for additional information.
The East End Food Co-op presents
“Reaching Your Potential” with Lois 
Perelman Wednesday from 7 to 9 pm. 
Free of charge. Call 242-3598 for more 
information.
East End Food Co-op presents “Herbs 
for Winter Health” with Spider at 7 pm 
tonight as part of its fall workshop 
series. Cost is $25. Call 242-3598 for 
more information.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. Donation of $1 accepted. For 
more information, call Bill King at 276- 
1768.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ- 
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and Tech House invite all students to a 
Bible Study at Tech House every Tues­
day from 5-6 pm. For more information, 
call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIA main auditorium. For more 
information, call The Oratory at 681- 
3181.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm 
at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Anyone wishing to inquire into the 
Roman Catholic faith is welcome to 
attend. For more information, contact 
Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community Church invites all students to join in 
contemporary services on Sundays at
Theater
The Playhouse Theatre Company
presents Dames at Sea through No­
vember 15. Call 621-4445 for informa­
tion.
The Point Park College Theatre Company presents “On the Verge” at 
the Playhouse starting Wednesday and 
running through November 22. Call 
621-4445 for more information.
University of Pittsburgh Depart­ment of Theatre Arts presents Mad 
Forest and The Rover. Previews for Mad 
Forest are Monday and Wednesday at 8 
pm. Previews for The Rover are Tues­
day and Thursday at 8 pm. Cost is $6. 
Showings for both plays begin Friday 
and cost $8. Call 624-PLAY for details.
Are you a vegetarian or interested in 
learning more about vegetarianism? 
CMU Vegetarians has a variety of in­
formative literature and cookbooks 
available on reserve in Hunt Library.
The English Department presents 
Stephen Dobyns, author of “After 
Shocks/Near Escapes” and “Body Traf­
fic” and director of creative writing at 
Syracuse, reading his own works 
Wednesday at 8 pm in BH Adamson 
Wing.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts
displays Crossing Thresholds by Tazim 
Jaffer through November 8 in the Asso­
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh Gallery; 
Fiberarts '92 by the Fiberarts Guild of 
Pittsburgh through November 8 in the 
Main Galleries; watercolors by Sylvia 
Fontozzi through November 8 in The 
Center Shop; Migrations of Meaning at 
the National Gallery November 6 
through December 27; and presents 
Renee Stout in the Special Projects 
GalleryNovember6 through Decmeber 
27. Formore information, call 361-4235.
Silver Eye Center for Photography
presents Thom Droege’s photograpy 
from Brittany and France Tuesday 
through November 14. Call 431-1810 
for more information.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The football team plays at Catholic 
University Saturday at 1:30 pm.
Men’s andWomen’s Swimmingtrav- 
els to John Carroll University Satur­
day to compete at 6 pm.
The Hockey team hosts Indiana Uni­
versity of PA at Golden Mile at 5 pm 
Saturday. The team plays Penn State 
West, also at Golden Mile, Sunday at 
7:30 pm.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: The 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. 
You can also drop submissions via AppleShare in 
the drop folders in the Tartan’s server, Skibo 
zone. Please limit submissions to fifty words or 
less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before the 
next issue. Placement is not guaranteed. Original 
entries cannot be returned.
CMU Music Department presents 
Gorrell Young Artist Christopheren 
Nomura on baritone Tuesday at 8 pm 
in the Mellon Institute Auditorium.
Jazz Ensemble holds a concert Satur­
day at 6:30 pm in the Alumni Concert 
Hall.
The Damaged Pies play at the 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern Thursday at 
10 pm.
A.T.S. plays at the Bloomfield Bridge 
Tavern Friday at 10 pm.
River City Brass Band presents “A 
Sousa Celebration” at the Carnegie 
Music Hall at 8 pm Friday and Satur­
day.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at9:30 
pm at the Heinz Chapel. For informa­
tion, call 682-6886.
8>8>19/
mài inri
ma. Wllm #
m imM
W
im
What do Teamsters and 
sperm have in common?
Only 1 in 1000 work.
Hey, Kendrick, thanks for the Stimpy 
icon.
Nice Job!!
To all of the people who worked many 
hours to get our Republican Presi­
dent and Congressmen re-elected, 
thank you.
—KSB
THE QUESTION: What does a man 
do standing up, a woman do sitting 
down, and a dog do with one leg 
raised?
What would you say if 8 Pittsburgh 
Police Officers surrounded you in 
the lobby of Mudge and asked, “Do 
you know why we are here?"
—A victim of mistaken identity
sleepyhead—
How can I show you how much I love 
you?
Maybe you already know. I hope so.
ttab, rrmb.
charmingin
Have a nice visit this weekend. Think 
happy thoughts.
— to cepillo humano de los dientes 
It sucks to be__________.
THE ANSWER: Shake hands.
