Are Publications 
Underpaid 
At CIT?
See Page 1
Spring Carnival3 
Is it Overdone 
At Carnegie? 
See Page 4
VOL. 46—No. 26YearsAgs groCgCmCs pu CsYcrplpAfTUES., MAY 19, 1953
Scot Plans For Next 
Year; Positions Filled
The Scot, having completed a successful year financially, artis­
tically , and morally, is now making plans for another year. The 
editorial staff for the coming year has been elected from exper­
ienced members of the Scot team who have worked with the maga­
zine in past years. ?_________________________________________
Phil Drew will continue in the
lead spot as editor-in-chief. Phil 
has, in addition to holding the ed­
itor's position, been features edi­
tor and a consistent feature writ­
er. Andy Stedry, this year’s pub­
licity manager, will move up to 
business manager.
A new innovation is the elec­
tion of two managing editors, Ron 
Friedman and George Miley. Ron 
has been a regular contributor of 
feature articles and has held the 
position of features editor. George 
has acted as assistant circulation 
manager and circulation manager.
Fred Stern, another regular fea­
ture writer, will be features edi­
tor. Walt Ender will continue as 
layout editor while Joan Lucien 
and Donna Harpold will direct the 
fashion page. Pat Truschel will 
conduct the all-important adver­
tisement procurement and Mark 
Diniaco will take charge of sell­
ing the magazine when it hits the 
stands. Ken Winston will continue 
as chief camera man, and Bill 
Hurley will act as production ad­
visor.
Although the Scot has lost some 
of its valuable men, the new staff 
seems competent and able. A 
membership drive similar to last 
year’s is planned to fill the gaps 
left by the graduating seniors.
Plans for the coming year in­
dicate the publishing of at least 
four and possibly five issues. All 
appearances seem to prophesy a 
bigger and better Scot.
Benedict Chosen 
1953 Thistle Q ueen 
By Milton Caniff
At the annual Thistle banquet, 
held Tuesday, April 14, the queen 
and court for this year’s Thistle 
were announced. Mary Ann Bene­
dict was'announced as queen. She 
is a senior in the drama depart­
ment and is from Chambersburg, 
Pennsylvania.
Those selected for the queen’s 
court were Harriet Treon, Suzie 
Straits, and Ester Reed. The queen 
and court were selected this year 
by Milton Caniff who is well 
known for his comic strip charac­
ter Steve Canyon. He picked the 
queen and court from pictures of 
seniors submitted to him by the 
Thistle staff.
Cameron Clioir Elects Officers For Next Year
At a recent election, the Cam­
eron Choir elected the following 
officers: manager, Harry Anderson; 
assistant manager, Janet Wilkens; 
secretary, Pitsa Theodore; librar­
ian, James Kaiser.
The Choir presented a concert 
at Peabody high school last Friday. 
This was the last performance of 
the current year.
All those interested in signing 
for tryouts next season will be 
able to do so at the Cameron Choir 
table in the registration line.
Kevin Frederick 
Elected President 
Of CFP For Year
At the last meeting of CFP, offi­
cers were elected for the coming 
year. Kevin Friedrick, new Alpha 
Tau Omega president, was elected 
president. He is a junior in the 
department of electrical engineer­
ing and a member of HKN, the 
electrical honorary. This is his 
first year on campus since return-
¦ ing from the navy.
The other officers are as follows: 
vice-president, Jack Sweeney; sec­
retary, Wes Folsom; and treasurer, 
Joe Bercsi. Those elected to the 
Court of Justice were Harvey 
White, Robert Kiefer, and Jack 
Hall. Bill Mink was elected as 
alternate. The alternate sits on the 
court when the house involved is 
that of one of the justices. Faculty 
^ representatives on the court have 
' not yet been chosen.
Greek Week
The tentative dates for Greek
Mary Ann Benedict
1953 Thistle Queen
S’nS
One of the most important 
factors in the success of a 
Scotch and Soda show is how 
rapidly the script takes shape. 
All phases of the production 
can not be planned until the 
needs of the show, scene by 
scene, song by song, etc., are 
known. The Scotch and Soda 
Club hopes that there will be 
many interested people who 
will work over the summer so 
that a script can be completed 
in the early part of the school 
year. A cash award for the 
winning script has yet to be 
determined. There will be a 
meeting of all people who are 
interested in writing lyrics, 
music, dialogue, or just con­
tributing ideas for next year’s 
script. This meeting will take 
place in room 106 of the Fine 
Arts building this Thursday 
at 4:30 p.m. If you can’t make 
this meeting, but are interest­
ed, please contact Jerry Adler 
at SChenley 1-9119 this week.
Records
Records of this year’s Scotch 
’n Soda production, Shoot the 
Works, will be on sale in Ski- 
bo this week, Tuesday thru 
Friday, from 11:30 to 1:30 p.m.
The record is a long playing 
microgrove one and operates 
at the speed of 33 revolu­
tions per minute. There is » 
total of 50 minutes from the 
show on the record, including 
all to musical numbers.
The price is $4.00.
Commencement To
Be Held June 5&6
PRO Has Tickets; Caps And 
Gowns Will Be At Bookstore
Tech’s Commencement exercises will take place on the week 
end of June 5 and 6. Baccalaureate service will be held in Carnegie 
Music Hall at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, June 5. The service is for can­
didates, their families, and the faculty.
-------------------------------------- * Commencement exercises are
Ray Sebulsky 
Elected Student 
Council President
At the last Student Council 
meeting, held in Carnegie Union 
at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, May
13, elections were held for the of­
ficers to direct Council for the 
coming semester. Ray Sebulsky, 
junior in the department of chem­
ical engineering, was elected presi­
dent. Sebulsky has been on Coun­
cil for three semesters and has 
served as budget chairman since 
the time of his election. He is a 
member of Phi Kappa fraternity.
Richard Christensen, president 
for the present semester, was 
elected to serve as vice-president. 
The agenda for next week calls 
for the approval of budgets for all 
campus activities.
No Tartan
Due to final exams, this is 
the last issue of the Tartan for 
the present school year. The 
next issue will be on Septem­
ber 22.
ROTC Revieivs 
Held; Student 
Aivards Presented
Last Thursday morning, the 
ROTC review for the Dean and
professors of the various depart­
ments was held. Highlight of the 
event was the presentation of Ex­
pert, Sharpshooter, and Marksman 
rifle marksmanship awards to 
qualified students.
Persons receiving the top award 
of Expert were: Ed Swoboda, high 
with 373; Donald Cookson, Jr., 
Constantine Copetas, William Dav­
ies, Carl Detwiler, Don Donley, 
John Drgon, Alfred Eggers, Wes­
ley Folsom, John Goughnour, Rob­
ert Reitzenrater, John Herr, War­
ren Holmes, Frederick Kern, Ed­
ward Matchek, Thomas Mock, Ern­
est Nettleton, James Plugge, Rob­
ert Schramm, Elias Sutton, Robert 
Warren, and Robert White.
Dr. Warner to Review
The annual ROTC review for Dr. 
J. C. Warner will be held on May 
21, at 11:30 a.m. Deans of Carnegie 
Tech and officers of the organiza­
tions presenting awards to out-
Week and the annual Sing and 
Swing were announced. The first 
week after the mid-semester dur­
ing the first semester will be des­
ignated as Greek Week. During 
this time each fraternity will un- 
[Continued on page 3]
Robert Boyer To Be First Tech 
Holder Of Rhodes Scholarship
By Jo Forsythe
When Robert Boyer, senior physics major, receives his dual 
degrees on June 6, he will become the first Tech graduate to hold a 
Rhodes Scholarship. Bob received word of the award last Decem­
ber 13.
These scholarships, of which 
only 32 are awarded annually to 
American students, pay 500 pounds 
per annum (approximately $1250) 
for educational expenses at Oxford 
university, England. Bob plans to 
study theoretical physics for two 
or three years at the New College 
of Oxford.
The scholarship is for two years 
study, but may be renewed at the 
end of that time.
Different Study System
During his stay at Oxford, Bob 
will encounter a somewhat differ­
ent system of study. Although 
there will, of course, be no super­
vision of study, there will also be 
no rigid schedule of classes. Two 
weeks of examinations and a 
thesis are required for graduation.
Bob, who entered Tech at the 
age of 16 on a Westinghouse schol­
arship, will be awarded a BS de­
gree in physics and an MS degree 
in mathematics at the 1953 com­
mencement exercises.
Outstanding Scholastic Record
Bob has compiled an outstand­
ing scholastic record in his four 
years here. In 1952 he led the Tech 
team in the Putnam Collegiate 
mathematics competition to a high 
national ranking. He is a member 
of Tau Beta Pi and Pi Mu Epsilon.
In addition, Bob is an active 
member of Delta Tau Delta fra- j
scheduled for 2:30 p.m., Saturday, 
in Syria Mosque. At this time, 
over 875 bachelor’s and advanced 
degrees will be conferred.
Admission Tickets 
Seniors may obtain admission 
tickets for their families at the 
public relations office. Three tick­
ets will be issued to each candi­
date. Tickets not called for by 
May 28 will be distributed to those 
requesting additional tickets.
A reception will be given by 
President and Mrs. Warner for 
members of the graduating class 
and their families from 4:30-6:00 
p.m. on Saturday, June 6, in Car­
negie Union. In case of inclement 
weather, the reception will be held 
in the Fine Arts building.
The Commencement dance, 
sponsored by the junior class, will 
be held in Carnegie Music Hall 
after Bacculaureate services. Ad­
mission is free for graduates and 
their parents.
Caps and Gowns 
Caps and gowns must be worn 
at both Baccalaureate and Com­
mencement. Candidates should go 
to the Bookstore for their academic 
costumes in accordance with the 
following schedule:
Day Candidates 
Mon., June 1 9 a.m.—4:30 p.m.
Tues., June 2 9 a.m.—4:30 p.m.
Wed., June 3 9 a.m.—4:30 p.m.
standing ROTC cadets will also be 
in the reviewing party.
Thirteen awards will be pre­
sented by the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars, Military Order of World 
Wars, Reserve Officers’ Associa­
tion, Society of American Military 
Engineers, Armed Forces Com­
munication Association, Sons of 
the American Revolution, and 
Scabbard and Blade. Scabbard and 
Blade will also present an award 
to Sigma Nu fraternity for winning 
the interfraternity rifle matches.
Event Held at Pitt
On May 25 a massing of the 
colors will be held at Pitt to be 
sponsored by the Military Order 
of the Wars. The Pershing Rifle 
companies from Tech, Pitt, and 
Duquesne will take part in this 
event.
Captain of the Pershing Rifle 
company at Tech for the coming 
year will be Tom Farris. He will 
replace the present Captain, Bob 
McKie.
Bob Boyer
A First Timer for CIT
ternity and is editor of the “Techs- 
perts” column in the Carnegie 
Technical.
Last summer. Bob saw in a 
rather unique manner, the con­
tinent which he will call “home” 
for the next couple of years. He 
cycled and hitch-hiked his way 
through six European countries.
Bob is from Johnstown, Penn­
sylvania.
Thistle Orders
Seniors—we cannot send the 
’52 Thistle to you until you 
have paid the entire cost 
($5.00) of the book. The best 
time to do this is before you 
i leave school for the last time!
Please cooperate — remem­
ber, we cannot and will not 
send the book out before the 
final payment.
We would not object to hav­
ing underclassmen paying the 
balance of their payment, also.
The Thistle

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 19, 1953
Budget 
Conflict
Tax, Defense Plans 
On Capitol Hill
By Professor Richard K. Murdoch
More than ever before in the history of this country the average 
tax-payer is attentive to the proceedings of the tax committees in 
the two houses of Congress. Normally the problems of deficit financ­
ing, rising national debt, and unbalanced federal budgets have meant 
little in times of relative prosperity. But this year, with the second 
highest personal income tax rates in history, the public takes an 
unusually deep interest as the members of Congress debate the ques­
tion of how best and how much to reduce the costs of government. 
Without a sizeable reduction in both military and non-military 
spending, there can be no successful reduction in the level of taxation.
Promises of Tax Reduction
The election of a Republican majority last November, pledged 
to tax reduction, seemed to insure immediate relief for the taxpayer. 
Economy minded Congressmen from both parties, such as Senator 
Byrd of Virginia and Representative Reed of New York, virtually 
guaranteed that a prospective slash in federal expenditures would 
be coupled with a reduction in personal and corporate income tax 
rates. Representative Reed introduced a bill to reduce personal in­
come taxes by about 10% as of June 30, 1953, as one of the first 
measures that Congress should discuss.
In recent weeks, however, both Senator Taft, who usually speaks, 
for the Administration, and Secretary of the Treasury, George
Humphrey, have thrown cold water on the drive to reduce taxes by 
announcing that the federal budget cannot be balanced in either 
1953 or 1954 even with fairly sizeable reductions in federal spend­
ing and with the continuation of the present tax pattern. Mr.
Humphrey pointed out in a recent public address that the corpora­
tion excess-profits tax and the 1951 emergency increase in personal 
income tax rates which expire automatically, one on June 30 and 
the other on December 31, will reduce the tax take by nearly 5 
billion dollars.
Budget To Be Unbalanced
This reduction in income combined with a lower return from
the corporate income tax (due to the anticipated business decline in
1954) will throw the budget completely out of balance even with in­
creased economies in federal expenditures. If Representative Reed’s 
bill is enacted into law, it will mean that the personal income tax 
surcharge which was to expire automatically on December 31 will 
expire instead on June 30, and thus deprive the Treasury of an 
estimated additional $1,100,000,000 in revenue. This will further un­
balance the budget, and this is the reason that the Treasury is much 
opposed to tax reduction prior to the end of the calendar year.
In anticipation of this unbalanced condition, Mr. Humphrey has 
laid plans for a lengthy period of deficit financing, which means that 
the government will be spending more than it takes in. To prepare 
for this situation he has asked Congress to raise the statutory limit 
of the national debt from its present figure of 275 billions to a new 
high of 300 billions. As both the Secretary and Senator Taft point 
out, it is not sound financial policy to reduce the tax take at a time 
when it appears to be necessary to borrow more to meet the gov­
ernment’s bills.
In spite of this argument, the proponents of the Reed Bill are 
pushing its consideration in the House at an early date, anticipating 
that Congress will so reduce governmental expenditures that the 
budget can be balanced. This matter of the reduction of expendi­
tures poses a question that is most difficult to answer: When does 
the reduction of national defense spending cease to be economy and 
become folly? With nearly 75% of the budget annually going to pur­
chase and replenish arms and material both for the United States 
and for her allies, the question of where to start curtailing expendi­
tures becomes a very ticklish one.
Problems to Face
The mere mention of a reduction of funds for the Department of 
the Air Force was sufficient to arouse an angry hum in the Pentagon 
although it won some applause from officials in the Navy. The very 
heart of the problem appears to be fairly obvious: Just how precious 
is defense for freedom? Is it worth the continuation of the high 
level of taxation which seems to be stullifying and drying up the 
initiative of corporations to invest in plant expansion? Can the 
economy of the United States stand a larger and more onerous na­
tional debt, the product of deficit financing? Can the United States 
expect to produce an adequate defense for herself and her allies with 
less money to spend if the tax reduction proponents win their way? 
These problems are ones that each American tax-payer should think 
over long and hard before he writes his Congressman to vote for the 
Reed Bill and thus decrease the tax take while increasing the na­
tional debt.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
CgUs ocp£
On
• Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts
• Watches • Jewelry
• Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
13 Years Ago 
In The Tartan
Jn a vote taken by college stu­
dents over the country, Glenn 
Miller and his orchestra were 
chosen as the nation’s most popu­
lar dance combination. As an in­
teresting sideline it is noted that 
Glenn Miller provided the music 
for the Spring Carnival dance at 
Tech in 1940 .
* * *
Plans had been completed for 
the remodeling of one of the men’s 
dorms during the following sum­
mer. No definite action was to be 
taken, however, until there was 
complete assurance that no fur­
ther outbreaks of senior ducking 
would take place. McGill Hall was 
the dorm tentatively scheduled 
for remodeling. A game room 
was included in the plans and 
provided facilities for ping-pong, 
pool, and lounging. Soundproofing 
of the individual rooms was also 
planned.
* * *
As part of the Spring Carnival 
festivities a canoe tilting contest 
was held in Panther Hollow. Over 
200 persons watched the spectacle 
as the contestants battled water 
and mud for the victor’s trophy.
* * *
The Kappa Sig buggy romped to 
its fifth consecutive victory in the 
annual Spring Carnival pushmo- 
bile races in the amazing time of 
2:53, only six seconds off the rec­
ord of 2:47 set by the same buggy 
two years earlier. The Beta buggy, 
the first aluminum one seen on 
campus, won the design trophy. 
The same buggy placed second in 
the race with a “last time” of 3:02. 
* * *
The PiKA buggy of 13 years ago 
met with about the same misfor­
tune as did its descendant of 1953 
as it crashed into the curb when 
negotiating the first hill. The ac­
cident was blamed to a faulty 
wheel rim which collapsed and
CIT Publications" Salaries 
Rock Bottom, Survey Shows
By Bill Sick
Nobody in his right mind looks upon a college newspaper 
job as a way to wealth—nobody, that is, who has ever worked on a 
college newspaper. Your staff on the Tartan is unfortunately no ex­
ception to tnis statement. * -------
Working week after week for 
those intangible rewards offered 
to the college journalist, we were 
quite amazed to read a recent bul­
letin published by the Associated 
College Press. It seems (according 
to the bulletin) that there are col­
leges and college newspapers over 
the country which actually pay 
their editors and other members 
of their staffs. Amazing you say— 
well wait until you hear of some 
of the fantastic plans which have 
been concocted to aid these bud­
ding young journalists.
Various Methods of Payment
While some schools pay their' 
newspaper staffs regular fixed sal­
aries ranging from $75 per school 
year to full tuition for their edi­
tors-in-chief, many schools have 
adopted more ingenuous methods 
for rewarding their newspaper 
workers. One of the more common 
ways is to pay members of the 
business staffs a percentage of all 
ads sold. A good way to encourage 
ad sales you say—perhaps!
Several schools (probably lib­
eral arts colleges) it is noted offer 
for the editors-in-chief of their 
newspapers full class credit for 
their efforts. One school goes to 
the dubious extreme of even offer­
ing credits to reporters and copy- 
readers. These credits, we suppose, 
are in English and journalism. At 
most colleges, however, newspa­
per work makes the obtaining of
tangled with the steering mechan­
ism.
* * *
Featured in Spring Carnival 
competition was a baby buggy race 
held by the sororities. Each soro­
rity furnished a baby buggy, three 
pushers, and one “baby” from 
18 years upward. Each baby was 
equipped with a bonnet, bottle, 
and a rattle. The course extended 
from behind Skibo, around past 
Administration Hall, and ended 
at MMCC.
a degree all the more difficult; it’s 
usually more enjoyable and 
quicker, to write an editorial than 
a term paper. *
A small college in New Hamp­
shire distributes its net profits for 
the school year—of the paper, of 
course—among the members of 
the staff with the editor-in-chief 
and the business manager re­
ceiving the lion’s share. At this 
school, reporters, copyreaders, and 
the other less significant help re­
ceive only the enjoyment of their 
work as fruits of their labor.
Unique Reward 
By far the most unique form of 
reward offered to college journal­
ists is that offered by a midwest- 
ern school. Here the newspaper 
doles out car mileage to its editor 
and business manager amounting 
to $87.50 and $45 respectively. We 
aren’t told just why these officials 
have to travel so much or why the 
editor puts on more mileage than 
does the business manager. But at 
least they can afford a car.Phi Mu Alpha Presents Concert
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, men’s 
honorary musical society of Car­
negie, presented a brass and wood­
wind ensemble recital yesterday.
The program opened with Turm- 
sonate for four wind instruments 
by Reiche, followed by Monte­
verdi’s Suite for five brass instru­
ments.
Two works by Paul Hindemith, 
including Kliene Kammermusik 
and Morgenmusik from Ploner 
Musiktag, were heard. This was 
followed by Mozart’s Divertimetno, 
No. 3 for two clarinets and bas­
soon.
The last two selections in the re­
cital were Sander’s Quintet in B 
Flat for brass instruments and 
Canzon Septimi, No. I for double 
quartet of basses by Gabrieli.
Campus capers call for
Commencement’s a big day
... so get off to the right start. 
Pause for a frosty bottle of delicious Coca-Cola 
—and be refreshed.
k pCCyOK UNDI8 emCcpagCf Of Ccg YpYeLYple YpU£erf Nf 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
5722 Center Avenue cyyDHR 1-7011
WEY,.Mn ^S T FMP^?SMFMR SF,RMLI,F.3 V GBvd3 Ccg YpYeLYple YpU£erf
Sell
Prof. Skoob Says... WHY NOT —
yourText Books for Cash
it i*ro fossi on a t Booh Store ‘1949 Forbes St.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 19, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
Wolhing-no nothing-beats better taste 
and lmY!gso 
CeoCs NsCCsat
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment. 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a
Cigarette.
Luckies taste better—cleaner, fresher, smoother! 
Why? Luckies are made better to taste better. And, 
what’s more, Luckies are made of fine tobacco. 
L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want most in a cigarette... 
for better taste —for the cleaner, fresher, smoother 
taste of Lucky Strike ...
\ Be Happy-CO LUCKY!
a ,atarili
* 9 And «o'* Sf
U£ky
Fraternities and Sororities
Open an Account and Get
YOUR 10% DISCOUNTSOAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES STREET
ohIIMF a,,I?
The Theta Xi Fraternity 
house at 5017 Forbes St. is open 
again for male students or other 
men wishing to live in the 
Pittsburgh area during the sum­
mer months. All the accommo­
dations of comfortable living: 
limited maid service; kitchen 
facilities; reasonable rates. Con­
tact Russell Eastwood or Alan 
Demmerle at SC 1-9580.
1
SA! ¦
-> 
VW'*
Be rm
ndi
frVZB? Are 
uukhasuy ¿aw —
Serving Maryland/ Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia and West Virginia from
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-180#
A
Scotch *n Soda 
Executive Board 
Elected For 1954
At a recent meeting of the 
Scotch and Soda Executive Board, 
the following were chosen to serve 
on the board for the next school 
year: Robert Bernat, Richard
Christensen, Paul Conrad, Ronald 
Friedman, Anne St. John, Robert 
Levin, Fredrick Dill, and John 
Schonder.
No appointments have been 
made as to who will take charge 
of what and a president will be 
elected today.Officers Elected By Newman Club; Plans Being Made
Newman Club officers for the 
coming year have been announced. 
They are: president, John Ryan; 
vice-president, Nancy Senard; re­
cording secretary, Kay Egan; cor­
responding secretary, Nancy 
Kraus; treasurer, Barbara Casey; 
sergeant-at-arms, Dom Schello; 
social chairman, Mary Murrin; 
publicity chairman, Sheila Sulli­
van; sports chairman, Ed Pastor; 
communion breakfast chairman, 
I'aul Sieffert; educational program 
committee, Warren Schmitt; social- 
work committee, A1 Blank.
The social calendar has not been 
set up for next year, however, 
there are tentative plans for fresh­
man mixer, a swimming party, and 
the annual PIFCSO picnic which 
will be held at Parrish Hill, North 
Park, on the last Sunday in June.
Help Wanted
The Thistle needs workers dur­
ing the last month of vacation and 
throughout the next school term. 
If you are interested in any of the 
following positions, drop your 
name, address, and telephone num­
ber into the interschool mail, c/o 
Thistle. Please give the above in­
formation as of August 15, as the 
Thistle staff will be contacting | 
new members anytime after that 
date.
The thistle needs workers for 
the following jobs:
1. To pack boxes for seniors 
from August 15 to September 
19.
2. To work in registration line, 
selling books, distributing 
books, etc.
3. To work on book during the 
whole year.
If interested in any oi the above 
jobs, please contact the Thistle be­
fore May 27.
n brtef *ormS
, æsé
YpllsAs oCmKsrCo £asusa lmY!gso 
gr reCgprLigKs oma'sft
Nation-wide survey based on actual student in­
terviews in 80 leading colleges reveals more 
smokers prefer Luckies than any other cigarette 
by a wide margin. No. 1 reason—Luckies’ better 
taste. Survey also shows Lucky Strike gained 
far more smokers in these colleges than the na­
tion’s two other principal brands combined.
. brtods of d9aretUS' 
I've tri"* Tf?all the you,to°>
.Vrnihît«-uckieS
. — Kapla11 .
pe3C3YTPRODUCT orAMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURER O» CJCARBTTM
Student Recital Is Presented By Music Department
A student recital was given by 
the department of music, last Sun­
day, May 17.
The concert opened with 
Haydn’s Quartette, No. 30 in G 
Minor featuring Robert Reardick 
and Donald Mushalko, violins; 
Carl Svensson, viola, and Edith 
Starr, cello.
Davida Green was soprano solo­
ist in the presentation of II Re 
Pastore by Mdzart with Mary Jane 
Troop as featured violinist and 
George Walter, pianist. Jean- 
Baptiste Senaillie’s Sonata No. 9 
featured Mr. Mushalko, violin, and 
Marilyn Mitchell as piano soloist.
The first portion of the program 
was concluded with the duet from 
Cosi Fan Tutte with Martha 
Ritchey, soprano, Mitzi Cottle, 
Mezzo soprano, and George Walter, 
Piano.
The selection for the second 
half of the concert was Sonata No.
4 in D. Major by Handel featuring 
Jack Brourman, violin, and Sara- 
lee Eisner, piano.
ASCE To Hold Meeting Thursday At Roosevelt Hotel
Junior members of the Pitts­
burgh section of the American So­
ciety of Civil Engineers will learn 
about land sub-division during 
their meeting on Thursday, May
14, at 8 p.m. in the Copper room 
of the Roosevelt Hotel.
Fred Omer of M. E. Frye and 
associates will be the featured 
speaker. He will discuss several 
aspects of land sub-division: the 
role the engineer plays in the 
planning and laying out of sub­
division; the problems encounter­
ed in providing adequate services 
for the prospective purchasers of 
lots and homes; and explanation 
of local ordinances restricting 
builders and their engineers.
CFP—
[Continued from page 1] 
dertake a project to create favor­
able opinion from the community. 
Discussion groups, made up of the 
officers of the different houses, will 
also be held. This week will be 
climaxed by the annual CFP dance 
over the weekend. Greek Sing and 
Swing will be held during the 
same week as last year.
Plans were also approved for 
the printing of the CFP booklet 
which is sent to all incoming fresh­
men and explains the fraternity 
system here at Tech.
“He’s actually a big help—Professor Snarf let’s him grade all his 
papers.”
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSN> NgNlsa

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*« 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—^Tuesday, May 19, 1955
Is It Worth 
The Trouble ?Fun On The Cut
INQUIRING REPORTER-
New Dorm
While picking meringue out of our type­
writer ribbon last week, we got to thinking 
about Spring Carnival and all the fuss and 
bother that goes into our yearly escape from 
reality. And one question kept popping up:
“Is it worth all the trouble?” For there is an 
uncommon amount of work needed to pre­
pare the campus for letting its hair down 
during the May weekend; and almost as 
much trouble is involved in getting the old 
factory back in shape afterwards so that no- 
one suspects anything untoward has hap­
pened.
No doubt it does this place good to relax 
for a few days in the spring and forget about 
school. The change of atmosphere from the 
usual businesslike aura to one of festivity is 
truly remarkable. And judging from the mass 
of persons who turn out for the event, people 
either enjoy the affair immensely or else they 
are gluttons for punishment. Even the poor 
souls who endure torture for the dear old 
fraternity by allowing ripe cucumbers to be 
lobbed at them seem to have some sort of a 
good time.
But still we ask, “Is it worth the effort?”
Our big complaint against Carnival is 
not the fact that it is a big weekend. Big 
weekends are fine, and if we ever propose 
that Carnival time be taken up with classes, 
the Tartan editorial staff will turn in their 
Junior Sleuth kits. But does the big week­
end have to be as big as it has been in the past? ,
Our chief complaint is that the whole thing is getting 
to be too big, messy, and commercial. Instead of attracting 
Carnegie Tech, the midway attracts all of Pittsburgh; which 
is good for business, but doesn’t really add a whole lot to 
the charm or enjoyment of the festivities. Besides, who 
wants to spend the weekend being hit with tomatoes thrown 
by total strangers?
Another affair that has grown to ridiculous proportions is 
the float parade. Hundreds of dollars and hundreds of man- 
hours go into producing the fraternity entries to this contest, 
which are destroyed within minutes after passing the judges’ 
stand.
We might also attack the buggy race; but somehow this
ArrreP
Pittsburghers Enjoy Carnival
Is Midway too Commercial?
little rugged on the participants, it provided 
good wholesome fun (a supposedly desirable 
commodity), and apparently didn’t take 
much more effort than the procuring of a 
rope and the digging of a hole.
Let’s find more events like this; and then 
get rid of some of those which are not worth 
the trouble.
And if our fellow students are too sen­
timental to give up the Midway and parade 
entirely; couldn’t they be simplified some­
what? The least we can do is decommercial- 
ize the midway so that it will interest stu­
dents but not all of metropolitan Pitts-
Cartoon to Editor—
Our hard working and loyal cartoonist has dis­
agreed so violently with our editorial policy this 
week that she has been inspired to answer with 
her own opinions on the subject of Spring Carnival.
seems to be a worthwhile project. While the race can be burgh. That way we can have as good a 
both time-consuming and expensive (not to mention dis-! kf^d for a lot less work’ net result:
astrous to pedestrians), there is still an element in it which a bettter time tor all.__________________________
makes it seem justifiable. We will not attack the buggy race 
for the time being.
But as a whole, the weekend adds up to a tremendous 
amount of work for a large number of students; an unbe­
lievable amount for a few; and a couple of dances and par­
ties that could be enjoyed just as much without a lot of the 
extra stuff that goes along with the weekend whether we 
want it or not.
The profits made from fraternity and sorority booths 
are hardly enough to justify the effort that goes into them.
And if there is no profit in getting pies thrown at you, why 
bother? There are better ways to spend one’s time.
Is it worth all the effort?
Do not misunderstand. Spring Carnival is fine. It provides 
a break from the books before grappling with finals. But the 
work involved is such that most of us are hardly rested until 
weeks after the affair is over.
So why not simplify the whole thing? Let’s remove the 
events which do not justify themselves, and find some en­
tertainment that can be prepared with less effort. A good 
innovation was the tug-o-war instituted this year. While a
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh iJ, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SChenley 1-4557; after hours SChenley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HA/.el 1-5360 Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex­
amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Dick Durstine
Rumdcss Manager ................................................................................................................ Jerry Seiner
Managing Editor ................................................................................................. Wilson Sick
News Editor ....................................................................................................................... Jo Forsythe
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................ Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager .............................................................................................. Paul Carmichael
features Editor—Lin Smith. Copy Editor—A1 Susia Advertising Manager—Vic 
SKiry. Assistant Business Manager—Stan Rosenberg. Circulation Manager—Don 
Gio. - Photography Editor—Barbara Toia. Assistant Sports Editor—Ted Reuther. 
Keporiers—Joan Cummerton, Jane Sunder, Marilyn Seiner, Bill Minkler, June Socha- 
toH Pat Maue, Mollie Rudy, Sally Clark, George Bangs, Bob Livingstone, Car- 
ri.ert Villella. Sports Reporters—Edward Feigenbaum Jack Alexander, Dick Eppler, 
Jim Gore. Art Staff—Carolyn Copp Photographers—Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Dick 
Wolfe. Features Staff—Andy Stedry, Judy Storch, Joe Szewc, Tom McConomy. 
Tttisls— June Sochatoff, Elaine Nord. Headline Staff—Van Andersen, Pat Naugle, 
Dan Byer? Make-up Staff—Ellroy Wildhaber, Don Wildman, Bill Hurley. Adver- 
ti'>ii>g Staff—Ronald Greenwald, Mimi Sterft, Joan Newman. Circulation Staff— 
Ralph Antonito.
Represented tot national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 
tl.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted tor mailing at special 
rtite of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Pres*, Intercollegiate Pre*».
' i
The TARTAN'S Spring Carnival Ingredients:
A Shovel and Rope 
A Buggy
A Few Parties ,
Results:
Green Grass on the Cut 
Alert Minds on Moday Morning
Letters-
King of Hearts
Editor, the Tartan:
The newly initiated members of Mortar Board 
(1953-1954) would like to go on record unani­
mously favoring having a King of Hearts dance. 
With the cooperation of Student Council, tenta­
tively scheduling a date for this dance next year
This column is dedicated to blowing off steam 
about certain aspects of CIT. This steam is let 
off in this manner. A question of scholarly nature 
is posed to certain individuals going to Carnegie 
Tech.
This week’s question concerns the new men’s 
dormitory that is to be built in the near future.
What is your opinion of this project? The first 
response comes from a girl. Mary Dabney, who re­
sides on campus at 3B Morewood Gardens, is a 
student in design in Margaret Morrison.
Great Improvement
“What little I know about the new dorm, I got 
from the Tartan. I consider it to be a great im­
provement of living conditions in the present men’s 
dorms. Although some of the fellows are reputed 
to like the present dorm, I have also heard ar­
guments to the contrary.
“The site for the building was the best that could 
be had, although I feel that it would look better 
beside the Industrial Administration building than 
beside Margaret Morrison, but this cannot be 
helped.
“I do not like tearing down the Carnegie Inn, be­
cause I feel the lunch room will be missed. It is 
cheaper to eat there than at Skibo. However, I 
think this can be remedied by building a cafeteria 
inside the new dorm. All in all, in order to beau­
tify the campus, it is a good thing.”
Next we hear from an architect. Clarence Eason, 
a freshman who resides at 210 Boss Hall, has this 
to say.
Opposed to Razing of Inn
“For the sake of tradition and economy, Car­
negie Inn should not be torn 
down. In these days of high 
building and construction costs, 
one should think twice before 
tearing down any structure 
whatsoever, just to satisfy an ar­
chitect’s whim of situating a 
dorm on such a site. There are 
other building sites and struc­
tures of lesser importance that 
could merit tearing down; name­
ly, the faculty houses.”
Sheila Sullivan, a sophomore in’ general science, 
has this to say.
“The new dorms should be constructed at Mar­
garet Morrison street in place of 
the old faculty houses because I 
do not like to see the Carnegie 
Inn torn down. For one thing, 
many social functions are held in 
the Inn, dances, parties, etc. The 
Inn provides a cheap place for 
the fellows to eat and relax.
Out of Style 
“Architecturally speakin, the 
new dorm, in my opinion, will 
be completely out of style with 
the other buildings in that area. You have an ultra­
modern structure and an early 20th century edi­
fice side by side, which does not make for an 
esthetic view.”
Our last interview is with Bruce Goetzman, 
president of the school chapter of the American 
Institute of Architects. He lives at 5028 Moore- 
wood Place and is a sub-senior.
“The new dorms are olng delayed in their ar­
rival at CIT. They should have 
been erected long ago. As for 
the problem of Carnegie Inn, I 
j feel there is no problem. The Inn 
| was originally a gymnasium and 
became a place of eating when 
it was made over. However, the 
lunch room in the Inn will be 
missed.
“The design of the dorms is $
a good contemporary solution to 
construction of dorms and will 
aid the over-all character of the campus. Finally, 
the buildings will blend haynoniously with the 
other structures at CIT.”
(March 27, 1953), we see no reason why it should 
not be held.
The problem now lies directly in the hands of 
CFP. Their approval and support must be achieved 
to guarantee a successful campaign and dance. 
Will they allow the tradition to die which has help­
ed so greatly to improve the intangible “school 
spirit” which is widely discussed? We ask their 
cooperation in re-instating a King of Hearts on 
campus.
Sincerely,
Gaye Damich, President
Mortar Board (1953-1954).

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 19, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN Pag® S
©rilyTime will Tèli.
On/yfíme w///fe//aùoufan o/c/
A oc/se / And on// i/me w///fe//a6ocrf-<? 
c/gare/fe ! Take yoorf/me...
--------v'- ¦¦w?
AND YOU ^ 
SAY THE j 
FURNACE S 
WORKS 
PERFECTLY?
HOW CAN THEY TELL SO SOON ? . 
IT TAKES A HEAP 
O' LIVI NrTO MAKE 
A HOUSE A HOME!
WITH A HOUSE 
LIKE THIS... ALU 
OUR LIVING 
^ TROUBLES 
WILL BE Y 
v ended! }
this mm 
house'll
HARDLY COST 
A CENT ON 
UPKEEP! >-for 30 days 
for MILDNESS and 
7 FLAVOR! r-
'/WAKA betta PI' 
HOUSE WILL BE THE CLASSIEST 
_ ON THE r 
¿í7 campus! )
Coyle Sets 880 Record; 
Carman Wins 2 Events
By Jim Gore
The Tartan thinclads closed out a magnificent season last Satur­
day with a top-notch victory in the annual Tri-State track meet. 
The flying Scots, picking up most of the points via the oval, emerged 
a solid 17 point victor over runner-up Washington and Jefferson. 
Grove City took third with 30% 
as compared with the 48 V2 and 
31VZ of Tech and W&J.
After going 12 years without 
capturing the coveted Class “B” 
championship, the lads of the 
Plaid brought the trophy home for 
the second straight year and the 
prospects look good for even long­
er retention in the future. The win 
climaxed the third undefeated 
season in a row for Tech in duo- 
meets and was a fitting ending for 
a season which saw the boys romp 
over all their opponents. The 
praise of the team should be loud 
and long but especially so in re­
gard to Coach Guy Halferty who 
guided the squad through its vic­
torious campaign.
Coyle Breaks Record 
Although the victory was essen­
tially a team one several of the 
Plaid contingent showed especial­
ly well. One of the four new Tri- 
State records was set by distance 
man Rodger Coyle who broke the 
880 record with a time of 2:01.6.
Bob Carman, Tech’s ace miler, 
again swept the mile and two mile 
events while Chuck Bell took sec­
ond in both the 100 and 220.
Double Winners 
Other double winners in the 
meet were Washington and Jeffer­
son’s Jack McEoravey who snatch­
ed top honors in the 100 and 220 
and Paul Cuffari of Grove City 
who won the discus and shot-put.
Cuffari also set a new shot rec­
ord with Gene Schlosser of Slip- 
nary Rock and Bob Coates of 
' rove City establishing new 
larks in the high jump and broad 
jump respectively.
Coming Events 
Tennis
May 19. . . . Geneva ............Away
May 23. . . Grove City.........Home
Golf
May 18... Grove City........Home
May 21.. Westminster ....Home
lies, Tech; 3—Taibert, Westminster; 4— 
Legge, Westminster; 5—Sheridan, Slip­
pery Rock. Time—r2:01.6. »New Record. 
Old Record—Douglas, Tech, 2:01.8, 1952).
Mile Run—1—Carman, Tech; 2—Jack­
son, Geneva; 3—Roby, Silppery Rock;
4—Stewart, Westminster; 5—Beadle, Be­
thany. Time—4:30.Two Mile Run—1-Carman, Tech; 2— , 
Olds, Tech; 3—Clyde, Geneva; 4—Bloom, | 
Westminster; 5—Stewart,, Westminster. } 
Time—10:17.4. v-"'120-Yard High Hurdles—1—Oblom, ! 
Wash-Jeff; 2—Baron, Grove City; 3— 
Duncan, Geneva; 4—Pisarci, Wash-Jeff;
5—Steffee, Allegheny. Time—15.8. 
220-Y*rdI.ow Hurdles—1—Duncan, Ge­
neva; 2—Chin, Bethany; 3—Baron, Grove 
City; 4—Brown, Slippery Rock; 5—Turn­
bull, Wash-Jeff. Time—25.9.
Mile Relay—1—Edinboro (Versity, 
Shesham, McBride, Woldl; 2—Wash-Jeff;
3—Bethany; 4—Carnegie Tech; 5—Grove 
City. Time—3:31.
Field Events
Discuss—1—Cuffari, Grove Citjj! 2— 
Coccia, Grove City; 3—Wood, Westmin- i 
ster; 4—Ruesch, Slippery Rock; 5—Beall, 1 
Westminster. Distance—126 ft., 4 in. !
Javelin—1—Ocamb, Allegheny; 2— Newhard, Edinbor; 3—Stemper, Slippery 1 
Rock; 5—Siskovic, Wash-Jeff; 5—Dubk- ! 
worth. Slippery Rock. Distance—169 ft., 10>/2 in.Shot Put—1—Cufari, Grove City;2— 
Speers, Allegheny; 3—Coccia, Grove City;
4—McFarland, Geneva; 5—Wall, Slip­
pery Rock. Distance—48 ft., 2 in. ¡New 
record. Old record—Cuffari, 47 ft., 2 in., 
19521.High Jump—1—Schlosser, Slippery 
Rock; 2—Oblom, Wash-Jeff; 3—Tie 
among Turnbull, Wash-Jeff; Lasker, 
Tech; Buck, Allegheny; Oliver, Slippery 
Rock. Height—6 ft., % in. iNew record. 
Old record—Paul, Westminster, 6, 1951).
Broad Jump—1—Coates, Grove City; 2 
—Walker, Westminster; 3—Chin, Betha­
ny; 4—Turnbull, Wash-Jeff; 5—McLaugh­
lin, Bethany. Distnace—21 ft., 8 m. 
iNew record. Old record 11 tie bet wee® 
Sovetts, Bethany, 1938 and Wilktn*, 
Waynesburg, 1939, 21 ft., 3>/2 in.).
Pole Vault—1—Bateman, Tech; 2— 
Blumfeldt, Tech; 3—Papeti, Geneva; 4— 
tie among Spak, Slippery Rock; Seidner, 
Westminster; Spaulding, Edinboro; Grov­
er, Slippery Rock. Height—12 ft.
Patronize 
Tartan 
Advertisers
u,F S/M NsoC
-in- 
Photographic 
Equ’oment and Supplies
Aa G
Liberty
Photo
Supply
436 i,,R St.
Jerry Blumfeldt goes up and over the hurdle in the pole vault 
event at Meadville, Saturday. Blumfeldt took second place behind 
Tech’s Chuck Bateman.
The Tartans managed to bring 
back four first place ribbons but 
racked up six seconds to outstripe 
all the other nine contending 
squads.
Bateman Wins Pole Vault 
The meet held at Allegheny 
College stadium was beset with in­
termittent rain which keep the 
runners to a slower pace although 
Coyle did set one record. As per 
usual, the Clan representatives 
compiled most of their points in 
the track events. Reliable Chuck 
Bateman leaped to a 12 foot tri­
umph in the pole-vault. Jerry 
Blumfeldt took second in the same
events with Lasker grabbing a 
third in the high jump. The sum­
maries:
Team Scoring
Carnegie Tech 48 Vz, Wash-Jeff 31%; 
Grove City 30, Slippery Rock 24. Betha­
ny 23, Geneva 20, Westminster 18%, Ed­inboro 143i. Allegheny 14 V4.
Track Events
100-Yard Dash—1—McElravey, Wash- 
Jeff; 2—Bell, Tech; 3—Hiabni, Bethany; 
4-—McLaughlin, Bethany; 5—Waltz, Al­
legheny. Time—10.2.
220-Yard Dash—1—McElravey, Wash- 
Jeff; 2—Bell, Tech; 3—Taibi, Bethany; 4 
—Waltz, Allegheny; 5—Peters, Slippery 
Rock. Time—22.1.
440-Yard Dash—1—Wolf, Edinboro; 2— 
Wills, Tech; 3—McClay. Bethany; 4— 
Klingensmith. Slippery Rock; 5—Engle- 
hart, Tech. Time—51.2.880-Yard Run—1—Coyle, Tech; 2—Gil-
sales tvdetwditetdc
Service | f § C if ill I ELild Supplies
rsi £paCeNlso O,F asrC
WEEK — MONTH — TERM 
Free Delivery and Pick-Up Service
PHONE MU 2-3956
ALLIED OFFICE MACHINES CO.
3806 Forbes Street
THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is 
America’s most popular cigarette—leading 
all other brands by billions! Camels have 
the two things smokers want most —rich, 
full flavor and cool, cool mildness... pack 
after pack! Try Camels for 30 days and see 
how mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly 
enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!
MORE PEOPLE SMOKE CAMELSltion olhef daQret,e!
Thinclads Again Tri-State Champs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 19. 1953
Netmen Defeat Pitt, 
Allegheny, Grove CityTartans Face Geneva And Grove City; Expect Undefeated Season
Last week was a most successful 
one for Coach Mose’s tennis squad. 
By defeating Pitt, 5-2; Allegheny, 
7-2: and Grove City, 6-0, Tech’s 
netmen *have almost cinched their 
second straight undefeated season. 
They now face only Geneva Col­
lege, and a second match with 
Grove City.
Saturday the Tartans shut out! 
an outclassed Grove City team, 
6-0. The Roubles were rained out.
The scores were as follows: Mil­
ler defeated Davis, 6-1; Weider- 
hodn defeated Brock, 6-1, 6-3; 
Glaser defeated Kilburne, 6-3. 6-2; 
Tsiang defeated Sheraw, 6-2, 6-2; 
Saibel defeated Englis, 8-6, 6-4; 
and Rugheimer defeated Senser, 
6-1, 6-3.
On Friday, the team traveled to 
Allegheny where they played their 
toughest match of the year. In the 
singles, Tech accumulated only 10 
more points than the Gators.
The scores were as follows: Bob 
Weiderhorn (T) defeated Dickson 
(A), 2-6, 6-1, 6-1; Jim Miller (T) 
defeated Mustic (A), 6-1, 5-7,
6-3; Allen Glasser (T) defeated 
Segel (A), 10-8, 3-6, 6-4; Don 
Tsiang (T) defeated Harlangh 
(A), 3-6, 6-1, 7-5; Hafley (A) de­
feated Mahlon Saibel (A), 1-6, 
6-3, 6-3; and-Way (A), defeated 
Duncklee (T), 6-3, 6-3.
Doubles: Miller-Weiderhorn de­
feated Hefly-Dixon, 6-1, 6-3; Glas- 
ser-Tsiang defeated Seigel, Mestic, 
11-9, 8-6; and Saibel-Rughemier 
defeated Way-Hartough, 6-3, 7-5.
The Pitt Panther was booted out 
of the Tech cpurts last Wednesday. 
The Scot tennis squad beat Pitt,
5-2. The last two doubles matches 
were rained out, but Tech won the 
first.
The scores were as follows: 
Weinstein (P) defeated Miller (T), 
10-8, 9-7; Weiderhorn (T) defeat­
ed Bendl (P), 6-1, 6-4; Duncan 
(P) defeated Glasser (T), 6-2,
6-1; Tsiang (T) defeated Litch- 
man (P), 6-2, 4-6, 6-4; Saibel (T) 
defeated De Courx (P), 6-2, 6-1; 
Gillette (T) defeated Stevens (P), 
6-3, 6-3; Saibel- Duncklee (T) de­
feated De Courx-Stevens (P), 5-7, 
6-2, 6-1.
Sigma Nu Wins Plaid League; 
Other Leagues Finish In Ties
By Jack Alexander
Sigma Nu “A15 emerged as the 
winner of the Plaid League, post­
ing the only undefeated record in 
this year’s intramural competition. 
Their offensive power registered 
112 runs in 7 games for an average 
of 16 runs per game. Such power, 
along with good pitching from Kay 
Thompson and their good luck in 
drawing a bye in the first round of 
the playoffs, makes Sigma Nu the 
favorite for the al'-school cham­
pionship. The game ©f the week 
in this league was the first place 
deciding 18-9 victory of Sigma Nu 
over the Newman Club.
Upsets Feature Skibo Play
Upsets were featured in recent 
Skibo League play. The best ball 
was played by Kappa Sigma who 
oddly enough are out of the run­
ning for the league championship. 
The Obelisks and SAE who are 
tied for the league lead have both 
been beaten by KS. Their 13-9 
victory over SAE, placed the 
league in a four-way tie for first 
place. They immediately proceed­
ed to knock Phi Kappa out of the 
tie by the score of 13-6. The 
Obelisks then defeated DU., the 
other team in the running, 11-8, 
to leave only SAE and themselves 
in first place.
It appears that a three-way tie 
is inevitable in the Tartan League 
with Beta Theta Pi and Alpha Tau 
Omega “A” owning but one loss 
along with the Faculty Club who 
have two games remaining. The 
11-8 Faculty Club upset victory 
over the Betas highlighted this 
week’s play. The Betas were pre­
viously undefeated and appeared 
to be heading for the League 
championship.
The school championship play­
offs will begin Monday with the 
first two teams in each league com­
peting.
With a Paper-Mate Pen, 
you’re ready to write at 
the click of a button. No 
cap to close. Refill car­
tridges in blue, red, green 
and black ink. Change 
ink colors in writing re­
ports, making charts 
and graphs, doing 
accounting work.
Get the versatile 
Paper-Mate today.
• Bankers approve
• Ink can't smear 
or transfer
• Can't leak
e Guaranteed for 
20 year*
70,000 word
refills...
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL ,O BOWLING SHOES
b_)L_G YaegA oCassC 
oY!THyT> GLBd_)
Strike Three
Umpire Paul Smith sees Bart Osborne of Beta Theta Pi take a 
swinging third strike. The Betas led all the way in walloping the 
Demons, 16-4.
On
at your college 
or university store
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
For Better 
Dry Cleaning..
l-HOUR
SERVICE
CampusCleaners
b|_B u,F2M? oS3
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
?
12 Inch
UsCel amlsao 
uass S, eyy 
Y3g3C3 oShRMHS?
“0®™ (SBQOIKl.D®ca
MEET YOURSELF- 
lO YEARS FROM NOW
Ever wonder what you’ll be like when the class of ’53 holds' its 
10th reunion? If you started to work for one of the Bell System 
telephone companies after graduation, here’s a pretty good idea.
POSITION IN THE WORLD: On the way up! A Commercial Man­
ager, the company’s representative and spokesman to as many as 
fifty thousand customers. A Transmission Engineer, helping to 
provide the telephone needs of an entire state. A Supervisor in the 
Traffic Department, responsible for the speed and quality of local 
and long distance service in several cities and for the personnel 
relations of a large number of employees. In the telephone com­
pany, jobs such as these are held by relatively young men and women.
FUTURE: Unlimited! The Bell System continually progresses and 
expands and its personnel grows with it. In the past 25 years, the 
number of telephones has almost tripled. In the past 5 years, tele­
phone companies have introduced such things as network television 
transmission, radiotelephone service and dialing of Long Distance 
calls. And the best is yet to come.
FRAME OF MINO: Confident and proud! You’ll T>e satisfied be­
cause you have a rewarding job... not only in pay and security 
... but in service. You’ll be proud of your share in helping provide 
and develop a telephone service vital to the country’s social and 
economic life.
Like the picture ? For further information see your Placement 
Officer. He will be glad to give you details regarding the oppor­
tunities for employment in the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 19, 1953—CARNEGIE ÎARTAN Page T
% ^^CARNEGlE^j) ./)
ft JV/Ï / >/
AWMMV
y **n
Page edited by Evening School Students ot the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporters.............Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.Coronation Theme At Phi Gamma Pi Annual Banquet
The seventh annual banquet of 
the Phi Gamma Pi sorority was 
held on May 9, at the Roosevelt 
Hotel. The theme chosen for the 
banquet was the Coronation. Dec­
orations prepared by Jean Woods 
included a centerpiece for the 
speaker’s table which was a rep­
lica of the historic Crown of St. 
Edward, - with which all British 
monarchs are crowned. Two small 
circles on red satin pillows dec­
orated the adjoining tables. The 
orb and scepter were hung on blue 
velvet drapes behind the table to 
signify imperial authority. Pro­
grams prepared by Merrie Auld 
bore the orb.
Participants in Program
The program included two mu­
sical selections by Helen Sessi. 
Barbara Hall, sophomore drama 
student, performed a pantomime 
dance representing the activities 
at the Coronation. Mr. William 
Bliss, Professor of History at the 
University of Pittsburgh, spoke of 
the significance of the Coronation 
and read excerpts from Queen 
Victoria’s description of her, Cor­
onation. Ellen Gonter was toast- 
mistress for the affair.
Following the program, new of­
ficers for the 1953-54 year were 
installed. They were: Jean Woods, 
president; Virginia Ross, vice- 
president; Eileen Wolf, recording
5231 Statics (9)
5232 Dynamics (9)
5233 Str. of Materials (9)
S407 General Pbysics (9)
E201 Surveying (9)
E202 ^Surveying (9)
E571 'Dray. A Dese. Geom. 1 (9)
E572 * Draw. & Desc. Geom. II (9)
C109 English Composition (9)
C110 English Composition (9)
C401 Economics I (9)
C401 Economics II (9)
C501 Introductory Psychology (9)
Sig Delt Social 
Held Outdoors
Early Season Event 
Thoroughly Enjoyed
Everyone was surprised, some 
pleasantly—others not so pleas­
antly, when a social scheduled by 
Sigma Delta Phi at the Carnegie 
Union was held outside. May 9 
might be a little early for outdoor 
gatherings, especially in the eve­
ning, but that evening was a rela­
tively warm one so everyone en­
joyed the novelty.
The program, capably planned 
by George Bogovich and Matt 
Bertovich, was one of many un­
usual an<t enjoyable games. A ser­
ies of races conducted by the girls, 
with paper turtles walking down 
a long string, was cause for much 
merriment.
The crowning event of the eve­
ning was refreshment time. Saur- 
kraut and weiners were the main 
bill of fair, but there were the 
usual bountiful choice of many 
other dishes from which to choose.
secretary; Kathy Galligan, corres­
ponding secretary; and Helene 
Tousimis, treasurer.
Lydia Liston was awarded a G 
Cleff guard for her sorority pin in 
recognition of her activities as mu­
sical director of the Phi Gamma 
Pi choral group.
MW.F.7:30- 9:30$51.20
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30.......51.20
MW.F.7j30- 9:30.......51.20
M.W.F.7 iSO- 9:30.......51.20
MW.F.7:30- 9:30.......57.60
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30.......57.60
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30......57.60
MW.F.7:30- 9:30.............57.60
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30........57.60
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30.......57.60
M.W.F.6:30-10:30.......57.60
M.W.F.6:30-10:3057.60
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30........49.50
M.W.F.7:30- 9:30.......49.50
M.Th.7:00-10:00.......49.50
Tu.F.7:00-10:0049.50
M.W.F.7:30- 9:3049.50
Finals
Final examinations of the 
Spring semester wiU begin 
Monday, May 25. The sched­
ules of the examinations have 
been posted on the bulletin 
board. Registration for the 
supplementary term will be 
held Monday evening, June 8, 
with classes beginning Tues­
day, June 9.
asrC e Cf£siagCsa
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
Cf£siagCsao 9__ v_
All Kind» at Lo« as
AmericanTypewriter Co.
GG i,,R oS3 5e 4
Convenient Parking *
LET’S GO TO
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches 
?
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
S714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Home Run
BY TRAINS
IT'S A HIT I The fun of a
train trip home with friends ... 
enjoying roomy comfort and 
swell dining-car meals.
IT'* A STEAL! You and
two or more friends can each 
save 25% of regular round-trip 
coach fares by traveling home 
and back together on Group 
Plan tickets. These tickets are 
good generally between points 
more than 100 miles apart. Or 
a group of 25 or more can each 
save 28% by heading home in 
the same direction at the same 
time . . . then returning either 
together or separately.
SAFE AT HOME1 You’ll 
get home promptly as planned 
. . . with all-weather certainty 
no other travel can match.
COMSULT YOUR LOCAL RAILROAD TICKET 
A6ENT WELL W ADVANCE OF DEPARTWt 
DATE FOR DETAILED IHFOttKATHMt
seoCsaraeglapeKo
Registration for the supplementary term will be held on 
Monday evening, June 8, between 7:00 and 9:00 in the exhibi­
tion room, first floor of the Fine Arts building. Students regis­
tered during 1952-53 should present their original registration 
receipt cards.
The schedule of classes goes into effect on Tuesday evening, 
June 9. Subjects with less than ten registrants may be with­
drawn. No classes will be held on Saturday, July 4.
All students planning to register for the supplementary 
term should report to the Office of the Registrar during May.
Dalziel McKelway 
Registrar of Evening Classes.
New "convertible” styled 
to warm up COOL dolls
JfM!
ip’4m 1 afe***,
$ F J Dress-n-ploy shirt
$3.95
If your smiles-per-gal is low, you’ll 
improve your operating efficiency 
in a Manhattan DRESS-N-PLAY. 
This fully convertible collar is 
equally handsome with or without 
a tie. And smooth Manhattan styl­
ing means it’s loaded with pick-up 
power. Choice of fabrics in white 
or colors . . . regular DRESS-N- 
PLAY or spread DRESS-N-PLAY 
collar. Stop in at your Manhattan 
men’s shop—see many more most- 
for-your-money values in distinc­
tive menswear.
Evening Classes
Students following a degree program should schedule one 
of the following subjects in accordance with information on 
pages 24-38 of the 1952-53 bulletin of evening classes: C109, 
C110, C401, C402, C501, S231, E201, E202, E571, and E572.
Any student who wishes information or advice concern­
ing his plans for the supplementary term should call at the 
office of the Registrar of Evening Classes.
June 8 to August 1, 1953
S212 Trigonometry (8)
5214 Calculus I (8)
5215 Calculus II (8)
5216 Calculus III (8)
Prof. Skoob Says... WHY" NOT —
Sell your Book§ for CcUsll
at Professional itooh Store 3049 Forbes Si.

---------------------------------------------------

rxge I—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May It, 195S
“Packard Invitation Month”
CONTEST I Beginning in May
25 AWARDS
12 PACKARDS for the WINNERS
* V '
12 PACKARD CLIPPERS /or the Winners
Grand Prize !
America9.? Greatest Sparts Car
New PA Civ A R D
Sponsored by PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY and Your Packard Dealer
Entry Blanks are Available at the T A II T A X Office in the Carnegie Union
Enter Our BIG
Came in and See 17«—
PACKARD MOTOR GAR 00.
5550 CENTER AVENUE . PITTSBURGH 32, PA.
*
