The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 31_____________________CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1944
ASTRC’s Throw 
Party for GirlsWelcome To Carnegie, Freshmen 
Here’s Your Guide To The Campus
The Cut, The College of Fine Arts and the Tradition—encrusted Senior 
Fence.
When this issue of the Tartan 
appears on the campus, you Fresh­
men will be slumped in some 
chair, nursing the writer’s cramp 
in your arms, wondering who the 
heck wants to have your name and 
address, your parents’ name and 
address and various other vital sta­
tistics thirty-odd times on half a 
dozen slips of paper and pieces of 
cardboard. You will have heard 
how smart you must be to be able 
to come to Carnegie Tech, and sub­
sequently discovered your ignor­
ance by taking the placement ex­
ams. After being rushed by five or 
six fraternities, treated to innum­
erable sodas, lunches, movies and 
evenings by dozens of oh-so-nice
Dir. W. N. Jones
and courteous iellovvs who seem to 
consider themselves your personal 
bodyguards, you will be now com­
pletely in the dark whether to join 
the Delta Beta Phis or the Kappa 
Tau Nus. In short, you will have 
come through the Battle of Regis­
tration and Freshman Week, dazed 
and befuddled, and with dire pre­
monitions about the days to come.
In order to prepare you for the 
trials and tribulations ahead we 
would like to take you on an expert­
ly guided tour of the campus. Just 
step to the rear of the bus and make 
yourself comfortable, for this will 
be your last chance to relax for 
many many months.
Most of your classes will be in In­
dustries Hall, the long, low building 
opposite Engineering Hall (that’s 
the building opposite Industries) 
with the many wings sticking out 
left and right. So let’s begin our 
expedition here. As we come in 
through the immense brass-and- 
glass doors you will recognize the 
place where you filled out those end­
less slips of paper (which, incident­
ally, contrary to malicious rumors 
will not be used for sanitary pur­
poses) and through which you 
shuffled back and forth trying to 
get rid of your tuition money. This 
part of the building is called Ad­
ministration Hall, and, appropri­
ately enough, most of the adminis­
trative offices are located here. To 
your right is the office of the man 
with whom you have dealt until to­
day, Prof. John M. Daniels, Chair­
man of Admissions, and to your left 
that of the man you will see from 
now on, Prof. John M. Daniels, 
Dean of the Students. There also, 
is the office that is always ppen 
when you have classes, and closed 
when you need money, the Cashier’s 
cubicle. Above, as you have been 
told already in reverently hushed 
whispers, resides our President, Dr. 
Robert E. Doherty.
But let us leave this sacred hall, 
and plunge into the dismal tunnel 
of Industries Hall which so perfect­
ly reflects our mood the night be­
fore an exam. On the first floor 
there are nothing but classrooms 
upon classrooms, rooms where you 
will study trigonometry and alge­
bra all over again, where you will 
be taught how to write themes that 
are supposed to mean something, 
and where you will be initiated in­
to the mysterious ways of Social 
Relations. The second floor houses 
the haven of all the victims of the 
draft, the last resort of all the guys 
with Greetings, the office of the Di­
rector of the College of Engineering, 
Dr. Webster N. Jones. You, too, will 
be there before long. A little farther 
down the hall is the sanctum of the 
youngest man or the oldest boy in 
school, News Bureau boss Maxie 
“Lippy” Hannum, whom you will 
soon number among your best
friends at Carnegie Tech. The rest 
of the floor is again devoted to 
classrooms.
The third floor is quite different. 
You will come here for one course 
only, but you will shed as much 
blood, sweat and tears as in all the 
rest of your classes together. For 
the desks and the flourescent lamps 
in these rooms are sorely needed ac­
cessories in that tribulation of trib­
ulations, Mechanical Drawing and 
Descriptive Geometry. We won’t 
say anything, but you’ll find this 
the only course in which definitions 
are verbal simultaneous equations.
Engineering Hall (remember, the 
building across from Industries) is 
the home of the sciences and the 
purgatory for the future scientist. 
For here you will spend long and 
hot afternoons wondering why your 
Chemistry experiment does not 
work until you find out that you
President R. E. Doherty
used the wrong reagent, (but who 
bothers with the chemicals) and 
many unnecessary hours in Physics 
Lab until you discover the magic 
of a fudge factor. In this building 
also is the Freshman Dormitory, 
sometimes called Chemistry Lec­
ture where the only limitation on 
your sleep is the rule against exces­
sive snoring.
Leaving E. H. we notice Machin­
ery Hall at the lower end of the 
Quadrangle, but as you will be sub­
jected to its horrors in your later 
semesters only, we can pass it up for 
the moment. Let us instead pro­
ceed to the most important class­
room in school, the domicile of the 
foremost graduation prerequisite, N. 
T. 1, 3, and 7—elementary, interme­
diate and advanced Culbertson. 
This course is considered so exact­
ing and tiring that the administra­
tion found it necessary to serve re­
freshments and install a jukebox to 
restore the energy of the students.
We shall not bother to enter the 
last two academic buildings on the 
Continued on page 3
Possibly the first truly successful 
Army-Civilian dance on campus 
came to pass last Thursday at This­
tle Hall. It was, of course, the affair 
thrown by the departing AST Re­
serves for the Freshman Girls. The 
to-do went from an approximate 
7; 00 P. M. to an exact 10:30, and 
provided jolly fun for all who at­
tended.
Lending their officious presences 
were such notables about campus as 
Dr. and Mrs. Doherty, Prof. and 
Mrs. Daniels, Prof. and Mrs. Stan­
ton, and several ladies who watch­
ed over the proceedings with nod­
ding approval. On the militaristic 
side were to be found Major and 
Mrs. Boberg, Capt. Thomas, Lts. 
Courtney and Dyer, and Sgt. Jaffe, 
who incidentally, brought a friend: 
Sgt. Jaffe. In prominence, also, 
were Lts. Doherty and Jacobsen. 
Missing, however, and most re­
grettably so, was Pvt. Stanton Gold­
ing—the beau of Company A.
The music, upon which all dances 
must, by definition, be based, was 
supplied by a five-piece aggregation 
under the direction of Dr. Billy 
Yates. Incidental riffs throughout 
the evening were provided by a 
group of characters including Bob­
by Brunet, Francis X. Workman, 
and Francis X. Montgomery. Off­
hand entertainment included a very 
professional acrobatic dance by Miss 
Ruth Pivirotti, and a veddy profes­
sional skit by the Department of 
Drama. The hall was neatly decorat­
ed in a manner befitting the distinc­
tion of the occasion, and refresh­
ments were as they have been from 
time immemorial. The punch was 
pungent.
Particular credit for the success 
of the jnelee must go to the Misses 
Pat Clark and Betty James, whose 
untiring efforts were commented on 
by Lt. Courtney in a Lieutenantial 
citation. '
Typical Comments of the hoi 
poloi included that of Pfe. R. G. 
Tuomola. Said Pfc. Tuomola, with 
descending inflection, “Hubba, hub- 
ba.” Miss Iris Hilton came through 
with a timely remark. Remarked
Miss Hilton: “..................... ask us
to dance?...............dance..................
ask us to dance.................to dance
.................dance....................”
It rained.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1944
Welcome, Freshmen
To you who are about to enter the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
—congratulations, for you will be students at the best undergraduate 
technical college in this country. You may not think so at first; many 
things will seem to you superfluous, cumbersome, and unimportant. But 
as you progress in your undergraduate work you will realize that al­
though this institution, like everything else on this earth, has its faults 
and shortcomings, you are nevertheless receiving an outstanding education.
The forty-odd classes which have labored in these halls before your 
arrival have set many precedents and instituted many traditions, and it 
shall be your responsibility to uphold those that are good. Although you 
shall lack the incentive of varsity teams and many extra-curricular, activi­
ties you will nevertheless have the obligation to uphold that intangible 
something which we are wont to call “college spirit” and which is the 
atmosphere and altitude which differentiates a true college from an intel­
lectual factory. In order to do this you should try to uphold as many extra­
curricular activities as possible: join fraternities, go out for the Tartan, 
the Technical and other publications, and above all, have an active interest 
in all campus affairs.
Of the few shortcomings of the Carnegie Tech student body which 
have become tradition there is one which is so important and so dangerous 
that you shall be asked time and again to remedy it. This fault, common 
not only to college students but to the American people in general, is the 
unbelievable apathy and disinterest towards the national and international 
political and economical events which do not lie within the immediate 
sphere of interest of the individual. You must realize—and act accordingly
— that this or any other college is not a small universe apart from every­
thing else, but an integral part of American society. We stated last week, 
and we repeat today, that you, the college students, are the intellectual 
minority of the American people, and that you, as such, have the tremen­
dous responsibility to act as a sparkplug to your countrymen who do not 
have your opportunity to study and digest current events. It is your 
inescapable duty to your country and to yourself to know what is going 
on in the world. Head the newspapers beyond the sports and comic pages, 
read Time and other news magazines, and the Tartan’s weekly series of 
articles of post-war planning. Recent Gallup and Denver polls show that 
two-thirds or more of the American people are ignorant of such funda­
mental things as Bill of Rights, the Atlantic Charter, and a reciprocal 
trade agreement. Not only must you not belong to these ignorami, but 
you have the obligation to do everything in your power to reduce their 
number.
Throughout your undergraduate career you must remember one thing. 
Good marks are very important, but they do not mean everything. There 
is hardly a person at Carnegie Tech or in industrial management who 
does not respect a man with a B average, but with an impressive list of 
e*tra-curricular participation, at least as much as a bookworm who man­
aged to get straight A’s without finding time for anything but studying. 
Your years in college should not only give you a mastery of your subject, 
but it should teach you how to deal with people. A six-months “course” in 
human relations by joining a fraternity is as valuable as Freshman Chem­
istry, and a few semesters’ work on the Tartan as important socially as 
Engineering Analysis is technically. Remember, your activities keys are 
the keys to your future success.
There will be a meeting for all 
Freshmen and otfcer Techites inter­
ested in working on the Carnegie 
TARTAN, on Friday, October 6, at 7 
p.m. in the Publications Office, I.H. 
232.
One of the Profs
If not for his influence in their 
way of thinking and stimulating 
class discussions, then for his read­
ing them Alice in Wonderland — 
every student in the Painting and 
Design Department will remember 
“Papa” Hyde. His shock of gray hair 
continually falling on his forehead, 
the ever present pipe and broken-off 
blackboard pointer, his massive
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
7BONB MATT LOWER 8600_______________________________________________________PHONE SCHgNLEY «BBi
Mnmntid rom TheCaThr hngiteCWCTs av After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief ................................em. 9424
p/faff Publishers Representative420 uhnCWaT avk. ncw York. h. y. Business Manager..............................EM. 9424
Oneof • Bo«thP • Lot AMiut * rsf •Bs«eLAeh
Enter»* aa •eeiM-Cltai matter In the PUtsbnrm Post Offiee under the Act of March S, 1879. nbliikd weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Sabscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editors-in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Ivan Faigen
Managing Editor .............................................................................................. Clara Herron
News Editor ......................................................................................................... Dottie King
Copy Editor........................................................................................................Augie Binder
Headline Editor........................................................................................Mary Jane Horridge
Sports Editor ..................................................................................................... Howard Roby
Photographers ..........................................................Ken Lipman, Dan Franks, Bill Jones
Reports: Millard Brown, Bob Connelley, Warren Helmer, Dick Herrmann, Audrey 
Hobe, Bob Johnson, Rosemarie Lang, Anita Newell, Georgette Paljug, Frank Peter­
son, Vincent Prus, Clark Sloan, Johnny Vansuch, Dale Wright, Lil Moravecki and 
Lillian Jacobs.
shoulders and lumbering walk be­
came familiar sights to the P. and
D.’s who soon realize he is inter­
ested in them as individuals as well 
as aspiring students of the arts.
Though himself not a brilliant 
student, he admits with a wry smile, 
he studied three years at Massachu­
setts Institute of Technology, then 
five years in Europe at the Sor- 
bonne, Beaux Arts and Julian Acad­
emy. His teaching career at various 
art schools began upon his return to 
this country and has continued to 
the present day, twenty years being 
spent at Carnegie Tech. He is pri­
marily an educator who believes 
that teaching consists of t^wo parts: 
student growth and teacher growth. 
Because of this conviction he has 
contributed greatly to the planning 
of courses given, and methods used 
in the art department.
Unknown Donor Gives 
To Endowment Fund
President Doherty received on 
Monday of this week, through the 
school mail, an anonymous letter 
from a member of the faculty en­
closing five $100 bills as a contribu­
tion to the Endowment Fund. The 
letter was phrased in a gracious 
and dignified manner eloquent of 
the devotion felt by the donor for 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
To read it would bring gratification 
to every friend of the institution, 
and it would be printed here in full 
if such a procedure were not con­
trary to the writer’s particular re­
quest. It may be reported, however, 
that the writer expressed the hope 
that this gift, if it became known, 
might encourage other faculty 
members to make such contribu­
tions as they can afford.
The President takes this method 
of expressing to the anonymous don­
or his gratitude and that of the 
Trustees for this extremely gener­
ous and deeply appreciated contri­
bution.
. . . Prof. Hyde
His hobby since boyhood, when 
he invented a unique easel, has been 
experimental research along me­
chanical lines. His studio, • conse­
quently resembled as much a small 
machine shop as an artist’s studio 
and he-could just as easily be found 
hunched over a lathe as standing 
before an easel. As a result of his 
engineering background and his 
teaching of engineers, he is a firm 
believer that the creative spirit of 
the artist and the scientist is close-" 
ly related, that it is unfortunate 
they do not appreciate each other 
more. The engineer believes the^ 
artist erratic—the artist believes the 
engineer dry and factual. He would 
like to convince the engineer that 
the artist is not an emotional fool, 
that he has as high a sense of organ­
ization as the scientist. He believes 
that as a result of an engineering 
training, the engineer has a natu­
ral tendency to attempt to standard­
ize methods, just as the artist tends 
to become overemotional.
Though he has always taught,’’’ 
Russell Hyde has gained recognition 
as a painter as well. He has ex­
hibited in the Salon in Paris, in the 
International and in art exhibits at 
Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francis­
co and Pittsburgh, where he has 
been granted three different prizes 
by the Associated Artists of Pitts­
burgh.
There is a sincere affection for Mr. 
Hyde on the part of his students, 
who often drop in at his home at 
odd hours to discuss a personal 
problem or for advice in regards to 
their Work. These unexpected vis­
its never seem to disturb his wife, 
Lee, or their baby, Anne, who think 
home would not be home without a 
stray student around at times. When 
driven to assert discipline in class, 
he gleefully locks the late students 
out of class, who are faced with the 
realization they will eventually 
have to draw detailed studies of 
trees. He has a reputation of getting, 
more and better work out of his 
students than they thought they 
could do, though he would be the 
last to admit it.
Five Years Ago ...
By Bob Teasdale
Most of us since coming to Tech 
have often wondered about the col­
lege life we had heard so much 
about—the lovely coed and the col­
lege playboy strolling leisurely near 
the ivy-covered buildings. We’v<? 
about come to the conclusion that 
the whole story is a beautiful mythy 
made up by someone who had never 
seen the inside of a college. But, be­
lieve it or not, there was a time 
when Tech was not all formulae, 
quizzes, and acceleration. Students 
looked up to laugh, not down to 
sigh.
The Freshman quota was raised 
to permit a larger percentage of 
those desiring admission to register.
Alpha Kappa Psi, (now known asi 
Chi Omega Sorority), Arts School 
Sorority, initiated the first two male 
members in its present history. 
They were initiated with great 
pomp — complete with icardboard 
pins and vegetable corsage.—“Meet 
my sorority brothers.” "

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Our Roll of Honor
William V. Robbins, son of Mr. 
and Mrs. Grover C. Robbins, 2034 
Redgrove Avenue, has been report­
ed missing in action on his first sea 
mission as a member of the Mer­
chant Marine. Bill graduated from 
Carnegie Tech in June, 1944, as a 
Mechanical Engineer.
Captain Albert D. Campbell, son 
of Mr. and Mrs. Albert D. Camp­
bell, 246 Woodhaven Drive, and for­
mer student at Carnegie Tech, was 
killed in action in the European 
Theater of Operations, August 15. 
He was on a volunteer flying mis­
sion, having already completed his 
required 300 hours of combat mis­
sion as a flight pilot.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
24 HOUR 
SERVICE
— ON —
BLUES 
O. P.’s
SUITS AND 
COATS
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
Prof. Allen Risedorph 
Directs Intramurals
“Three cheers for Tech, beat 
Pitt!” will not be heard this year 
at the Pitt stadium. Instead, “Rah! 
Rah! for the Delts, beat the Beta’s! 
Come on Independents, let’s go!” 
will be echoing up and down the 
cut. Without a football team, every 
one expected the college spirit to 
become extinct, but they didn’t 
reckon with the heavy intramural 
sports schedule.
Professor Allen Risedorf has been 
chosen to act as the head of the De­
partment of Intramural Activities, 
and he expects to keep the spirit of 
Tech alive by scheduling games be­
tween frats, independents, clubs, 
and classes. Everyone is invited to 
come out for these sports and teams 
can even be organized between the 
various frats, classes, and other or­
ganizations.
Mr. Risedorf, who will direct these 
activities, graduated from Spring­
field college in 1923, obtaining his 
Masters Degree at Pitt. His main 
hobbies are swimming and water 
sports.
Cameron Hall Reopens
The first step back to the old days 
has been made. Professor J. D. 
Daniels, Dean of Men, has announc­
ed that Cameron Hall, on Morewood 
Avenue, will be reopened as a men’s 
dormitory this week.
Rev Smith Speaks.............................
The most reverend W. H. Vernon 
Smith, minister of the 43rd Presby­
terian Church, will speak at Chapel 
October 10th.
The Phila. Orchestra 
Visits Pittsburgh
The Philadelphia Orchestra under 
the direction of Eugene Ormandy, 
world famous conductor, will come 
to Pittsburgh to celebrate the 29th 
anniversary of the Pittsburgh Or­
chestra Association, with four con­
certs.
Mr. Ormandy recently returned 
from directing a series of symphony 
programs in Australian cities and at 
Army camps in the South Pacific 
theatre of war. General Douglas 
MacArthur invited him to lead the 
Manila Symphony Orchestra when 
the American forces retake the 
Philippine Islands. No matter when 
this happens Mr. Ormandy has 
agreed to be there with some of his 
key men from the Philadelphia Or­
chestra.
Since Mr. Ormandy is celebrated 
for his program arrangements, his 
presence promises some unusual 
and outstanding concerts for Pitts­
burgh this season.
Welcome Freshmen
Continued, from page 1 
campus for their contents become 
interesting only when they leave 
the building. For these two halls 
shelter not only Carnegie Tech’s 
co-eds, but the dramats as well. 
Need we say more?
Time is drawing short, so we shall 
let you find for yourself about the 
mysteries of the Grill and Inn and 
the many other small peculiarities 
which add up to Carnegie Tech. 
Just one more bit of information: 
“No-Doze” pills are cheaper if you 
buy them by the gross.
Jefferson Club Holds 
First Meeting, Oct. 15
All Tech men and women are in­
vited to participate in the meetings 
of the Jefferson Club, student group 
at the First Unitarian Church, Ells­
worth and Morewood Avenues. Be­
ginning October 15, there will be a 
series of speakers and discussions on 
“Youth Problems in Wartime.” 
Speakers will include Mr. James S. 
Mace, Recreation Representative of 
the Federal Security Agency, Prof. 
David Rogers of the University of 
Pittsburgh, Mr. William Bacon of 
the Pittsburgh Federation of Social 
Agencies. The Federation of Social 
Agencies and the Unitarian Service 
Committee will help the Jefferson 
Club in this venture.
Regular meetings of the club are 
held Sunday evenings at 7:00 P. M. 
The program of social activities be­
gins with a picnic outing October 8. 
All who are interested meet at the 
church at 3:00 P. M.
Informal Dancing
Starts
Saturday, Oct, 7th
and
Every Saturday Thereafter
85c per person plus tax
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Citien Action Necessary forPOST-WAR WORLD ORDER
SHADYSIDE COMMUNITY FORUM presents
Dr. Edward C. Lindeman—Clarence Streit—Norman Thomas—U. S. Senator Harold Bur­
ton—Martha Sharp—President Philip Nash.
Oct. 16, Nov. 15, Jan. 17, Feb. 21, Mar. 21, Apr. 18 
STUDENT TICKET $1.20, FACULTY $3.00, Tax Included
Net Proceeds to Community FundFIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Ellsworth & Morewood Aves., E. E. 
Sunday Service 11 a.m.Via 75 Car MA. 5423
Student Group 7 p. m.
Fort Fitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
A Simplified 
Checking Account
— PROVIDES —
The safety and all the convenience of any 
bank account.
With inexpensive Pay-as-You-Go privilege.
No Minimum Balance Requirement.
No limit on deposits or withdrawals.
No charge to your account.
THE FORBES NATIONAL BANK
of Pittsburgh
FIFTH AND OAKLAND 
GULF BUILDING, SEVENTH AND GRANT
MEMBER FEDERAL. DEPOSlf INSURANCE CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

4THÏ. CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1944The Plaid
All College Party 
Features Election 
Food, And FroliC
The combined Evening College of 
Engineering and Fine Arts Election 
party is to be held on Saturday, Oc­
tober 14, from 9:00 to 12:00 P. M. at 
the Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall.
This Party offers splendid oppor­
tunities for a social gathering to re­
new old acquaintances and make 
new ones. The primary purpose is 
the election of fellow students as 
college officers to serve on Evening’s 
Student Council, which is the stu­
dent governing body.
There will be entertainment, 
dancing, and refreshments. Stu­
dents are invited to bring their 
wives, husbands, and friends. And 
another thing—it’s all free!
All students who have won in­
signias and are eligible to hold of­
fice should turn out for this affair.
New Evening Students— 
Get Your Handbooks Now
New Evening School Students 
who did not receive a copy of the 
Handbook with their Supplement 
when they registered, may obtain 
one at the Evening School office, 
Room 255-C, Industries Building.
In the Handbook will be found 
the By-Laws of Evening Student 
Council, the history and activities 
of the Evening School fraternities, 
and most important of all, an ex­
planation of the financial aid given 
to students through scholarships. 
All rules and regulations appearing 
in this book remain the same. The 
supplement is merely to take care 
of any changes such as academic 
and social calendar, Insignia 
Awards, Council Officers, Treasur­
er’s Report, and Plaid Staff.
Ap4io¿ntme*iii
The Chairmen of the Social and 
Publicity Committees for this year 
have been appointed by the Presi­
dent of the Evening Student Coun­
cil. These positions will be fulfill­
ed by Thelma (Mitzie) Kitchen and 
Dorothy Papa, respectively.
The girls will appreciate any sug­
gestions you may wish to offer and 
anyone wishing to join a committee 
should get in touch with Mitzie by 
calling Homestead 3146. We are 
looking forward to a gala year un­
der the capable direction of these 
girls.
The PlaidiEditor
Joseph M. Rymar
New* Editor 
Mary de Maria Associate Editors Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Pace edited by Evening School Students of Car* negie Institute of Technology. All views ot opinions expressed In editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board -of 
the Day School Staff.
Olive Baumgardner 
Florence Chorba Virginia Ehni Thelma Kitchen 
S. W. Marcinizyn
Staff
Elaine Martin 
Frank Mihelich Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan 
LoU Schultz
Tune in folks! This is station 
G-O-S-S-I-P coming to you with 
news hot off the wires of the Even­
ing School Plaid—Flash!—Private 
John Hundertmark, a former re­
porter on the “Paper of all papers” 
(this one, dope) is in the hospital 
with Cat Fever complaining of two 
major ailments: no decent beer and 
no good-natured females — Harry 
Gray, also a former evening student 
in Engineering, exchanged marital 
vows with Dottie Pearson of Wilk- 
insburg in Florida, where Harry is 
stationed with the U. S. Army—A1 
Flanders, former President of Even­
ing Student Council, is getting his 
basic infantry training at Camp 
Wheeler in Georgia. What say, kids! 
Let’s write to our fellow students 
doing their bit for Uncle Sam by 
summoning your Plaid for their ad­
dresses—Caroline Noll has left her 
many Evening School activities to 
join her husband, who is stationed 
in the deep Southland. What’s this? 
—Virginia Ehni, a delectable babe, 
almost lost a hand when Mr. Moses’ 
playful Scotty snapped at her when 
she laughingly coaxed him to the 
edge of the pool. (Must have been 
Meatless Wednesday) — In conclu­
sion, I know you have all been won­
dering what happened to the Plaid, 
but that is easily explained. Due to 
the fact that the Day School bud­
get has been cut tremendously, the 
Tartan suffered by being deprived 
of the customary full middle page, 
hence the Plaid is limited to two 
columns — Signing off, with a re­
minder to put the 14th down in your 
little black book for the Election 
Party.
Dramats Present “Old Maid”
“The Old Maid” will be the first 
presentation of the Drama Depart­
ment this season. The play is sched­
uled to run from October 14 to 21, 
and will be presented in the Little 
Theater located on the first floor of 
the College of Fine Arts—curtain 
at 8:30 P. M. Each Evening School 
student may obtain two tickets 
without charge by presenting their 
registration cards on or after Oc­
tober 6 or 7 in Room 255-C, Indus­
tries Hall.
Study Rxuutt
Students now waiting in the In­
dustries Hall for their rides will 
soon be able to spread out and do 
some of that homework, for which 
time at home cannot be found. 
Room 130 in Industries Hall is be­
ing prepared to be used as a study 
room so watch the Plaid page to 
learn when it is to be opened for 
use.
One of the Girls
“True Confessions by Our Gal Sal99
Lenore DeWall is one of the bus­
iest people on the campus of Car­
negie Tech. If not busy with her 
plans for Kappa Alpha Theta of 
which she is vice president, she is 
sure to be doing something to ful­
fill her roles as president of Pan- 
hellenic council and Secretary of 
Mortar Board. In addition to these
V,
“minor pastimes,” she may be found 
presiding over Sigma Alpha Iota, 
which is a professional music hon­
orary fraternity, or wandering 
around interhonorary council meet­
ings.
Dee, as she is better known, is a 
senior in the music department. She 
is majoring in piano, but can al­
so put the cello to use. Saying she 
could play the oboe would probably 
be an overstatement because ac­
cording to her “even my little per-
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
sian kitty runs down the cellar 
when I begin to play it.” In case 
you should happen to hear a beauti­
ful mezzo soprano voice around, it 
might well be this vivacious blue­
eyed blond, as she enjoys singing 
tremendously. When she finishes 
her course here she would like to 
try teaching for a short while (very 
short) and from then go on to con­
quer unknown worlds.
Our lovely Dee was born and 
raised right here in Pittsburgh and 
says she wouldn’t change a bit of 
it, smoke, dirt, and all. She has 
several pet peeves, the worst being 
gushy people, housework, and 
bridge. To counteract these she al­
so has many favorites. In sports its 
tennis and swimming; in actors its 
Ray Milland and Katie Hepburn:
Unlike most music students she 
likes popular music and in some 
instances she even prefers it. 
(Popular music not referring to the 
“Ricky Tick” Type). Collecting 
classical records is her hobby, her 
favorite composers being Bach, 
Brahms, Rachmaninoff. Brahm’s 
Fourth is the symphony she prefers.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIHIKR FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COIN ES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
SYRIA
MOSQUEMcuf, ßeetflz Concepii Evenings
Saturday, October 14
“LA TRAVIATA”
Opera With Metropolitan Cast 
Tuesday, November 14
THE BALLET THEATRE
Saturday, December 2
Saturday, January 13
ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
Saturday, February 84
“THE GYPSY BARON”
Johann Strauss Li(bt Opera 
Saturday, March 10
FRITZ KREISLER EZIO PINZA
Saturday, April 7 — BIDU SAYAO
Special Student Rate Sale Now On At Alexander's, 608 Wood St.
PRICES—$6.00, $7.20, $9.00, $9.90 (Tax Included)
To secure these rates present your identification card at box offlco at Alexander’s from 0:30 to 8:00 daily.
SYMPHONY CONCERTS
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association Presents Four Concerts At Mosque
Sunday Afternoon, October 29
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor 
Sunday Afternoon, November 5PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor
Saturday Evening, April 88PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor 
Sunday Afternoon, April 20
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor
STUDENT RATES: $1.70. $1.80. $3.00. $3.60. $5.40
