j «fThe Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 25 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1944
C.I.T., R.O.T.C. Rifle Team 
Receives Awards at Review
With the true dignity of a dress parade, Carnegie’s R. O. T. C. cadets, 
with the ASTP Band, passed in review last Thursday, July 27, for the pre­
sentation ceremony of the Hearst markmanship awards.
As the corps stood at attention, medals were presented to the winners 
by proxy, most of the real winners having joined the armed forces. Then, 
after the individual awards had been presented, Harry Keck, sports edi­
tor for the “Sun-Telegraph,” presented a plaque to the battalion com­
mander for the runner-up team in the Hearst Rifle Marksmanship competi- ------------------------------------------------------- ^on
Mavis Appointed 
Head of Civil Eng.
Dr. Frederick T. Mavis was re­
cently appointed Professor and 
Head of Carnegie Tech’s Depart­
ment of Civil Engineering and will 
assume his duties on September 1,
Director Webster N. Jones of the 
College of Engineering disclosed last 
Wednesday.
Dr. Mavis comes to Carnegie from 
Pennsylvania State College where 
he was Professor and Head of the 
Department of Civil Engineering, 
and acting head of the Department 
of Engineering Mechanics. He grad­
uated from the University of Illi­
nois in 1922 and received his Ph.D. 
degree there in 1935.
Continued on page 4
Dr. Salandra Leaves 
For South America
Dr. Dominic de la Salandra, a 
former member of the History De­
partment, has recently been ap­
pointed by the State Department as 
Cultural Attache in the American 
Foreign Service Auxiliary. He has 
been assigned for duty at the Am­
erican Embassy in Quito, Ecuador, 
South America. His work in South 
America will consist of studying the 
radio programs and magazine arti­
cles and making suggestions for 
their improvement. His work will 
have to do with the improvement of 
Latin American relations.
Dr. Salandra has been a professor 
of history for ASTP and Margaret 
Morrison classes since he came to 
Carnegie last November. He came 
at a time when the AST program 
was at its peak and history teachers 
were needed. After April when 
many of the ASTP students left, 
there was less need for history pro­
fessors, and when the opportunity 
for the position in the State Depart­
ment came, Dr. Salandra accepted it 
because of his deep interest in Latin 
America..
Dr. Salandra was born at Vico 
Garganico, province of Foggia, Italy, 
on February 19, 1893. In 1910 he 
left Italy to come to the United 
States, to live in Oregon. During
Continued on page 3
Former Tech Dramat 
Makes Cinema Success
William Eythe Stars 
In Eve of St. Mark
William Eythe, former Carnegie 
Institute of Technology drama and 
a graduate of a few years ago, is 
starring opposite Anne Baxter in 
20th Century-Fox’s “The Eve of St. 
Mark.”
When William Eythe left Carne­
gie, he went to New York to try his 
luck on the Broadway stage. At first 
he was not successful so he accepted 
a $22.50 a week job as page fc>oy at 
Radio City. Finally achieving suc­
cess he attracted attention with a 
stirring performance on the Broad­
way stage in John Steinbeck’s “The 
Moon Is Down,” in which he por­
trayed a high strung Nazi Army of­
ficer.
Although Eythe left the New 
York stage for Hollywood only a 
few months ago, Broadway already 
regrets letting the ‘coming’ young 
actor get away. Plucked straight 
from the cast of “The Moon Is 
Down” he was signed to an exclu­
sive long term contract by 20th Cen- 
tury-Fox.
Eythe’s first film role was a result 
of the rave notices he received while 
appearing in the Broadway play 
“The Moon Is Down.” He left the 
Great White Way for his assign­
ment in the film. “The Ox-Bow In­
cident.” The notices he received on 
his portrayal in that won him an 
even more important role in “The 
Song of Bernadette.” He was so 
outstanding in that film that the 
studio awarded him the coveted role 
of “Quizz West” in “The Eve of St. 
Mark.”
In his movie debut “The Ox-Bow 
Incident” the young actor once 
again simulates a psychopath, a fact 
which has set him to thinking. “I’m 
a normal human being and I’d pre­
fer not to make a career of hysteria,” 
Continued on page 4
Tau Beta Pi Pledges 
Six Leading Juniors
The following junior engineers 
were recently elected to Tau Beta 
Pi, Engineering Scholastic Honor­
ary:
Leonard S. Lerman, Chemistry.
Edgar R. Stephens, Chemistry.
Daniel L. Schacher, Electrical.
Paul P. Gibian, Aero.
John J. Keyes, Chem. E.
William Carpenter, Chem. E.
The last two pledges cannot be 
initiated until after their return 
from the Army. The others have 
been pledging for the past week and 
will be initiated on August 3,
Seven AST’s
From thirteen rifle teams compet­
ing in the Eastern Service Com­
mand, the Tartans, with a team 
score of 895, were second only to 
the University of Maryland, with 
916. This is the eighth time since 
1929 that Carnegie has received high 
honors in this contest, and Maj. Ray­
mond W. Boberg, commandant of 
Carnegie’s military units, said con­
fidently, “Next year we’ll win the 
gold plaque by finishing first.”
The members of the Tartan team 
were James K. Rice, who is now a 
lieutenant in the Marine Corps; Jo­
seph H. Dickson and Edward J. 
Croup, both lieutenants in the Army 
Engineers; Jack S. Pollock, who has 
an appointment in the Navy; and 
James W. Morrison, high-scorer 
with 184, who is awaiting induction 
into the Army.
Among those participating in the 
review, besides Maj. Boberg, were 
Master Sgt. Raymond C. Sommer, 
R.O.T.C. rifle coach; Capt. John D. 
Thomas; 2nd Lts. Vivian A. Court­
ney, Robert C. Dyer, and John A. 
Daiger; and Sgt. Raymond Sommer.
Adjutant’s call was sounded on 
the drill field at 4:30 Thursday aft­
ernoon, beginning the first parade 
for the new freshmen and the last 
for the battalion commander, Don­
ald Klein, who is leaving immedi­
ately for the armed forces.
Notice
There will be a meeting of all 
men Who wish to try out for this 
year’s basketball team in the gym 
at five o’clock on Friday, Aug­
ust 4. If anyone wishing to come 
out for the team cannot be at the 
gym, see Max Hannum before 
that time.
Term Six and 
Graduate in Sylvan Theater
Last Friday, July 29, marked a 
very signicant day for at least sixty- 
eight men of the advanced Army 
Specialized Training Unit of Car­
negie Institute of Technology. For 
on that day those soldiers of the 
ASTP who were in terms six and 
seven received certificates for the 
completion of their engineering at 
Carnegie Tech.
At approximately ten in the morn­
ing, the advanced ASTP along with 
the newly arrived ASTRP’s march­
ed onto the parade ground. Before 
Major Boberg and his staff, Colonel 
Cooksey, head of the ASTP for the 
Third Service Command, and Di­
rector Jones, Prof. Work, and others, 
they came to attention while the 
battalion adjutant read a letter of 
commendation from the General in 
charge of the Third Service Com- 
Continued on page 4Col. Richard W. Cooksey

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1944
CAitotá AnmckcU/i
We would like to apologize to the members of the Army-Civilian 
Activities Council for the cocky, wise-guyish style of the article which 
appeared in this column last week. We meant what we sad, but we are 
deeply sorry for the way we phrased it, a way which we hoped to have 
left behind in high school. Furthermore, in order to make our criticism 
of A. C. A. C. more constructive, we shall add a few words to our opinions 
of last week.
A. C. A. C. has never been a true student organization, for due to the 
apathy and disinterest of its student members, most, if not all of the work 
it had done up to last May was accomplished through the initiative of 
its former faculty advisor, Dean Murphy. For his untiring efforts Mr. 
Murphy deserves nothing but the highest praise; without him, A. C. A. C. 
would probably have been completely nonexistent. But this can certainly 
not be said-for the student members; it was their duty to make A. C. A. C. 
a student organization, and in this they failed.
Professor Daniels, who as acting Dean to students, took over as fac­
ulty advisor when Mr. Murphy left for the duration, was, quite justifiedly, 
unwillingly to run A. C. A. C. as Mr. Murphy had done before. The stu­
dent members unable or unwilling to grasp this last chance to prove 
their worth, now lost all interest, and for all practical purposes A. C. A. C. 
ceased to exist. Again we would like to emphasize that the student mem­
bers alone should be blamed for this.
What has been done cannot be undone, but we believe that A. C. A. C. 
still has a chance to become Carnegie Tech’s student government if it ac­
complishes the following things: within a few days after the beginning 
of next semester it should restore its depleted ranks by elections of new 
members. The new members, and the few old ones which will still be in 
school, must henceforth display enough energy, interest, and ability to 
change the Council from a passive organization, rubberstamping budgets 
and intramural board minutes, to an active and progressive government, 
originating novel dances and other entertainment, sustaining as many ex­
tra-curricular activities as possible, and, most important of all, preparing 
a firm foundation for the Student Council to which we shall sooner or late 
return.
This last object must be accomplished by A. C. A. C. as soon as possi­
ble. When the present state of emergency has ended and the armed serv­
ices release their members, students in all classes will stream back to Car­
negie Tech, and unless the Student Council is restored within a few weeks, 
the student body will be utterly chaotic. A. C. A. C., therefore, must have 
in readiness the machinery necessary for prompt and fair elections. In 
order to do this it must discuss the constitution of the old Student Coun­
cil, revising it wherever necessary to fit the needs of the new post-war 
organization. One of these revisions must be our system of elections. 
By devising new laws, and by arousing the interest of the large masses of 
independent voters, A. C. A. C. should ban once and for all the rule of the 
organized minority through the fraternity combine.
Aside from this longe range project, next semester’s A. C. A. C. should 
attempt to take the place of the various inactive organizations which used 
to provide social affairs and other activities. A P. A. system with a turn­
table, and a booth for cokes and pretzels would be sufficient for a nice 
dance in Thistle Hall, and on similar shoestring budgets A. C. A. C. could 
arrange picnics, athletic events, bridge tournaments, interesting as­
semblies, and many other things which would entertain the students.
Know Pittsburgh’s History . . . 
City Founded On Bloodshed
Continued from last week.
The AST Graduation
The officers and men of the ASTP, and our administration deserve a re­
sounding pat on the back for the inspiring way in which they organized 
and executed the AST commencement exercises. The beer party on 
Thursday night, the stirring parade on Friday morning, and the pleasant 
manner in which the graduation itself was carried out were in sharp 
contrast to our drab civilian ceremonies. We were especially struck by 
the surprising individualization of the commencement service; every 
man received his own diploma, and at the end of the ceremonies those 
soldiers who stood out in their extra-curricular work for Carnegie Tech 
were mentioned by name, and asked to stand up.
We believe that most of these innovations should be applied to our 
future graduation programs so that, instead of remaining flat and unin­
teresting events, they would become a fitting climax of our undergraduate 
studies. Either before or at the actual commencement exercises, the ad­
ministration or A. C. A. C. should provide for a modified Class Day at 
which the most popular, the most active, and the most valuable students 
should be praised individually. Students graduating with honors should 
be asked to stand up at the ceremonies, and their achievement should be 
indicated on their diplomas. Instead of an artificially sedate Senior Tea 
we should have a real blowout, similar to our old pep rallies, at which the 
graduating students drown their approaching nostalgy with beer and song.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4SS?
Entered as matter la tt>e Pittsburgh Poat Office nnder the Act of March I, M7|.Pablished weekly daring school year, except holiday* and examination period*.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor.............................................................................pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager ............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
That tragic story about Brad- 
dock’s defeat, that story of scared 
soldiers whose bodies were piled 
high on the mud road, that story of 
blood, torture, and death, having 
been told briefly, should be left 
with one last comment: it all hap­
pened here, in Pittsburgh, in Brad- 
dock, in fact just about where the 
Edgar Thomson Works of the Car- 
negie-Illinois Steel Mills now belch 
forth blood-red blasts in memory 
of the blood shed there.
After the last horrible screams of 
the tortured British died away that 
night, peace came to Western Penn­
sylvania. Peace? Can we call the 
German occupation of Poland, and 
France peace? No, it was not peace. 
The few brave English in their lone­
ly log cabins had no peace. For 
them there was but fear, terror, and 
sudden death. Horror stalked the 
forests of this land as it now stalks 
the small, vanquished countries of 
occupied Europe. Those English 
pioneers, who with their own hands 
had built crude log homes, and who 
in spite of bitter hardships, had 
planted their own few acres and 
had harvested their own small crop 
—these, our predecessors, became 
hunted men. Their hunters were 
Indians — Mingoes, Delawares, and 
strange painted tribes from the far 
western plains who had come to kill 
Englishmen. No one was safe. 
Women and children kept close to 
their cabins and the menfolk car­
ried their rifles ready. Yet one by 
one the crude log homes were 
levelled by flame to red glowing 
ashes; one by one brave pioneers 
fell prey to the blood-hungry scalp­
ing knife and tomahawk. For three 
long years the English knew no 
peace; for three long years these 
valleys and hills witnessed inhuman 
tortures and savage murders. Per­
haps that is Why another army was 
assembled and equipped to attack 
once more the Fort at the point of 
the three rivers.
While in Philadelphia General 
John Forbes was organizing this
second great expedition, several 
events were paving the way to vic­
tory. In Canada the British activi­
ties had taken a favorable turn and, 
as a result, the supply shipments to 
Fort Duquesne were badly hamper­
ed. At the same time, a Moravian 
missionary, whose fifteen years ex­
perience among the Indians made 
him an excellent ambassador for 
peace, had undertaken to wean the 
Indians from their French alliance. 
He succeeded to the extent that the 
Indians began taking pot shots at 
French sentries. To top all this, the 
harried French commander, unable 
to cope with the perverse situation, 
took heavily to drink, thus leaving 
his post practically without leader­
ship.
Meanwhile the English army be­
gan cutting a new road through 
forest and mountain. It wasn’t an 
easy or a speedy journey. General 
Forbes contracted a critical illness 
and was forced to lead his men 
from a litter on which he was car­
ried. Yet, with the iron courage for 
which he is famed, the stricken 
Forbes directed a cautious, well- 
protected, and carefully-planned ad- 
cance. When they were still sev­
eral days march away from the fort, 
a reconnoitering party under Ma­
jor James Grant was sent ahead to 
feel out the French defenses. Grant 
and his men camped that night on a 
hill overlooking the waving corn­
fields which lay between the forest 
and the fort. This hill was later 
named for the hot-headed major 
who camped and fought there. 
Grant’s Hill it was called and our 
municipal buildings and tallest sky­
scrapers now stand there, overlook­
ing the same land which Grant saw 
—land which today is a web of pro­
perty, no longer a golden cornfield. 
On this hill Grant, in hopes of steal­
ing Forbes’ glory, planned an at­
tack on the fort, which he was sent 
to observe only. However it was 
not destined that he should receive 
such undue honor but instead dis­
continued on page 4
Student Liaison Committee
The meeting was called to order at 
5:10 p.m. in the Office of the Director, 
College of Engineering, with Professor 
Work presiding.
Present: Professor Work, Dr. Teare, 
and Messrs. Jones, Lerman, Lowenstein, 
Pake, Pollock, and Stephens.
REPORTS
Aims of the Committee
Messrs. Pake and Stephens presented 
the aims of the Committee as follows:
To serve the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology by
(1) Calling 
which the 
attention.
(2) Providing 
opinion in
attention to problems 
students believe merit
a source of student 
matters requiring stu- 
dent-faculty attention.
(3) Keeping abreast of educational 
trends and developments.
(4) Conducting research and obtaining 
information that will assist in pur­
suing aims.
Number 3 was struck out and “Helping 
to improve teaching methods” was sub­
stituted. In Number (4), “Making in­
vestigations” was substituted for “Con­
ducting research.”
Name for the Committee
Messrs. Pake and Stephens suggestetd 
several names for the Committee.
The name “Student-Faculty Liaison 
Committee” was accepted, pending the 
approval of Dr. Jones.
Visual Education
Messrs. Lowenstein and Lerman pre­
sented a report on visual education. The 
Committee was of the opinion that mo­
tion pictures, slides, demonstrations, etc., 
are of great value in familiarizing stu­
dents with their subjects and helping 
them to understand and retain the ma­
terial. This system provides for ease and 
efficiency of presentation. Many in­
stances in the present educational pro­
gram at the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology were noted where such visual pre­
sentation would be of considerable ben­
efit. The possibilities of showing or pro­
ducing sound films at Carnegie were dis­
cussed, and sample figures concerning 
cost were read to the Committee. Pro­
fessor Work agreed to investigate the op­
portunities for procuring funds to ex­
periment with visual education at Car­
negie.
Freshman Curriculum
Messrs. Pake and Jones reported on the 
desirability of a new freshman curricu­
lum. The Committee suggested that a 
more elastic curriculum be adopted, 
whereby a student may study more sub­
jects of his own choice, these subjects to 
be decided upon in cooperation with a 
member of the faculty as advisor.
The meeting was adjourned, and the 
reports will be continued at the next 
meeting, to be held Saturday, July 29, 
1944.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK S. POLLOCK, 
Recorder,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Raymond W. Boberg 
Latest Commandant
Though one year of active service 
hardly entitles anyone to be called 
“an old Army man,” Major Ray­
mond W. Boberg, new professor of 
Military Science and Tactics of the 
ROTC and Commandant of the 
AST’s is the exception to the rule. 
With his eyes twinkling, Major Bo­
berg explained that he was born at 
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and 
“reared in the Army.”
Having received his B.S. in elec­
trical engineering at Iowa State 
College in 1922, he held various jobs 
pertaining to his chosen vocation 
and was connected with the General 
Electric Company in New York be­
fore being called to active duty in 
1942. His itinerary before coming to 
Carnegie Tech included several 
months at Fort Benning, Georgia, 
with the Infantry, a short time at 
the Fourteenth Infantry Training 
Battalion in Camp Wheeler, Geor­
gia, and a brief period as Assistant 
Professor of Military Science and 
Tactics of the ROTC, as well as 
Executive Officer of the AST unit 
at the University of Pennsylvania.
In answer to a query about his 
hobby, Major Boberg vigorously 
replied “work”; though he later 
broke down and admitted that he 
does enjoy pool and golf. His 
scores? As he explained, “Don’t 
ask, I'm about ready to give up in 
disgust.”
Music Department Gives 
Sunday Eve. Recital
The students in the department of 
music will present a recital on Sun­
day, February 27, 1944, at 8:15 P. 
M., in the Exhibition Room, Col­
lege of Fine Arts.
The program is as follows: 
Ballade and Polonaise. .Vieuxtemps 
Milton McDade 
In dem Schatten meiner Locken..
................:..................... Hugo Wolf
Das verlassene Maegdelein..........
....................................... Hugo Wolf
Auftrag...........................Hugo Wolf
Gloria Goldblum
By A Silent Shore........................
.............................Bainbridge Crist
Pierrot...................Dagmar Rybner
Lullaby...........................Cyril Scott
Dorothy Schwartz
Ballade in A flat......................Chopin
Ballade, Op. 24.....................................Grieg
Helen Gossard
Violin Concerto in E, Op. 64........
.....................................Mendelssohn
Allegro Appassionata 
Marjorie Hill 
Accompanists 
Ruth Luebbe
* Marion Duell McDade 
Matthew Frey
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
Army-Carnegie Contract 
Deals Fairly With All
by Clara Herron
The new equipment which the 
Army has installed on campus has 
aroused particular interest. This 
equipment belongs to the United 
States government and may be 
taken with the Army forces when 
they leave. It is for the exclusive 
use of the AST men and can be ob­
tained from the Army after the war 
only by purchase. The only equip­
ment which the Army is authorized 
to purchase for use at Carnegie is 
that which the college has had no 
need for in the past and cannot 
adapt to post-war use. Strictly 
speaking, the rules say that this so 
called activating equipment ex­
penditure must be restricted to (l) 
specialized equipment not usable by 
the college in normal operations and 
(2) plant alterations requested by 
due authority for the Army to meet 
its particular requirements. In con­
sideration of the breakage of equip­
ment, Carnegie bills the Army for 
all damages suffered. The barracks 
officials determine whether the 
damage is a result of ordinary wear 
and tear or of personal negligence. 
If it is the latter, the individual 
trainee reimburses the Army.
The first contract was signed on 
May 3, 1943. Since that time a* new 
contract has been drawn up for 
every new contingent. Any ap­
preciable increase or decrease in the 
number of trainees assigned to the 
college in a particular contingent 
requires a new contract to be ne­
gotiated. Financial arrangements 
on all contracts are readjusted at 
three month intervals to assure the 
continuance of non-profit operation 
of the whole plan.
In short, it can be seen from the 
above explanation that the advan­
tages accruing to the Army from 
the college program consist solely 
of the technical training provided 
their personnel by Carnegie, and 
the only advantage the college re­
ceives from the plan lies in the fact 
that under the plan it is enabled to 
keep its entire civilian faculty and 
staff intact. Let it be understood, 
however, that Carnegie Institute of 
Technology would remain open 
throughout the war whether it was 
instructing the ASTP or not.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA’S MOST COM­PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE 
¦
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MKMBER FIDIRAL DKPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
Doherty Honored . . .
Continued from page 1 
committee, including 22 leading 
citizens, but because of illness he 
was unable to submit his list of 
nominations. On Saturday, Febru­
ary 12, he was informed, much to 
his surprise, that he had been 
chosen Pittsburgh’s Man of the 
Year.
It is not strange that he has been 
chosen for this award, for among his 
many activities there are such 
prominent ones as: President of the 
Society for Promotion of Engineer­
ing Education, Chairman of the Al­
legheny Conference on Post-War 
Community Planning, and member 
of the National Advisory Committee 
on Engineering, Science, and Man­
agement War Training.
Board of Visitors
President Doherty has been ap­
pointed a member of the Board of 
Visitors to the United States Naval 
Academy for 1944 by President 
Roosevelt.
The functions of the Board are 
various, including reports upon the 
adequacy and condition of the phys­
ical equipment, the general state of 
morale and discipline, the curricu­
lum, and recommendations concern­
ing the physical equipment and any 
changes in method or practice that 
may be considered desirable.
Associated Artists
The versatile president of Car­
negie Tech was also awarded first 
prize of the Associated Artists’ 34th 
exhibition. He received this award 
with a self-portrait which is deem­
ed a remarkable likeness of the 
slender faced easel-hobbyist.
Illinois Tech President 
Speaks Before TX
Last Friday evening the Theta 
XI Club of Pittsburgh and Pi Chap­
ter of Theta XI held a smoker in 
honor of Dr. Henry Townley Heald, 
President of Illinois Institute of 
Technology. Dr. Heald, alumnus of 
Alpha Gamma chapter of Theta XI, 
has been in Pittsburgh the past 
week attending a meeting of the 
committee on Post-War education, 
one of the activities sponsored by 
the Society for the Promotion of 
Engineering Education, and the An­
nual Theta XI Alumnus Banquet
One of the topics discussed by Dr. 
Heald was the draft. According to 
him, there may not be as large de­
creases in enrollment in technical 
schools under the new deferment 
plan as had been expected. He di­
rected attention to the fact that 
there were a larger number of men 
classified as 4-F in schools than had 
been predicted, and that these men 
plus the men under eighteen added 
to those men deferred would con­
stitute a substantial enrollment. 
However, it is his opinion that en­
rollments would fall to new lows if 
the war continued for two or three 
years..
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
YOU AND YOUR
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
ESPECIALLY WELCOME
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Opposite Mellon Institute
MAyflower 7700
YOU CAN’T LOSE
YOU CARRY TiRAVELERS CHEQUES!
That’s right! Because if your American Express Travelers Cheques are 
lost, stolen, or destroyed uncountersigned, American Express will 
promptly refund your loss. These Cheques are handy to carry, the size 
of a dollar bill and are readily spendable anywhere.
American Express Travelers Cheques are issued in denominations of 
$10, $20, $50 and $100. The cost is V* of 1% (75ff on each $100 
porchased), minimum 40ff. For sale at Banks, and Railway Express offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES
Beautiful Corsages
FOR THE
SOPH HOP
ORCHIDS....................................13.00
ORCHIDS.......................................$3.50
GIDAS FLOWERS
3719 FORBES STREET MAyflower 1300

---------------------------------------------------

í.
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1944
Noted Techites Given 
Assoc. Artists Awards
The Associated Artists’ 34th exhi­
bition which opened on February 18 
awarded their first prize of War 
Bonds to Dr. Robert E. Doherty, 
president of Carnegie Tech, for his 
splendid self portrait which is 
credited as being a remarkable like­
ness.
The Associations’ second prize 
was bestowed upon Sister Mary 
Francis Irvin, a Sister of Charity 
who is a student in the senior art 
class at Tech. Her painting entitled 
“Convent Kitchen” portrays the 
simple scene of a group of nuns 
hulling peas, a work which proves 
beyond a doubt that simplicity is 
perfection.
For the pair of pictures entitled 
“The Little People” and “Tag Day,” 
Richard E. Williams, a Tech gradu­
ate was awarded the $200 prize of­
fered by Carnegie Institute. “The 
Little People,” which was also ex­
hibited in the Carnegie show this 
summer, features a boy, a girl, and 
a baby on a streetcar, while “Tag 
Day” is a cartoon.
A series of four Monday evening 
Forums have been scheduled in con­
nection with the exhibition. The 
first Forum on Monday, February 21 
will be entitled “If I Had Judged.” 
The following prominent news peo­
ple will participate: Jeannette Jena, 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Douglas 
Naylor, Pittsburgh Press; J. A. 
Breig, Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph; 
Harvey Gaul, Musical Forecast; 
Dorothy Kantner, Carnegie Alum­
nus.
GET HEPPED 
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS
—AT—MAJESTIC ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bide.
AST War Bond Drive 
Spurred On By Prize
Col. Frank L. Pirkey, former Com­
mandant, fired the opening gun in 
the campaign to put the 3302nd Ser­
vice Unit over the top in the cur­
rent War Bond Drive when he 
called on all ASTP men at Tech to 
“buy at least one $18.75 war bond, 
and, if possible, to increase bond 
allotments.”
At the same time 1st Lt. Vivian
A. Courtney, Adjutant, announced 
that the company which puts the 
largest percentage of its payroll into 
bonds will have a party, paid for 
by money from the unit fund, and 
that any company which fills 100% 
of its quota—$18.75 per man—will 
also have a party. The competition 
will be decided on the basis of pur­
chases and allotments, and the win­
ning companies will appoint their 
own committees to decide the time, 
place, and cost of their party.
Citing the twofold purpose of the 
drive, Col. Pirkey declared, “The 
quickening tempo of war as we en­
ter the present crucial stage de­
mands an additional effort and ex­
tra sacrifices from all of us, whether 
we are at 'the front or not. The 
Fourth War Loan Drive is a chance 
for us at Tech to back the attack 
with guns and bullets and to* fight 
inflation on the home front. It is 
a democratic opportunity for each 
of us to aid directly in the prosecu­
tion of the war, to shorten that war 
and to hasten peace. Money in 
War Bonds is not a gift; it is an 
investment, and temporary sacri­
fices will pay big dividends in the 
future. I, therefore, urge all con­
cerned to buy at least one $18.75 
War Bond, and if possible to in­
crease bond allotments now.”
The drive, under the direction of 
Lt. Courtney, is in full swing this 
week, but as yet no definite statis­
tics are available. “D” Company 
was reported unofficially to be lead­
ing. Last week company command­
ers personally addressed an appeal 
to their men at special formations.
The competition deadline is Feb­
ruary 29.
AST Editor of Tartan Leaves 
Carnegie Tech For New Post
Carnegie Tech, the ASTP, and the 
Tartan said a temporary goodby to 
one of the swellest fellows on cam­
pus last week when Allen Van Pat­
ten, versatile Language and Area 
man, got the “good word" from the 
War Department and shoved off for 
parts unknown. Since his arrival in 
Pittsburgh in July, “Van Pat” has 
been busy making himself one of 
the best liked men in Company E 
and has also found time to make an 
extensive number of friends in gen­
eral campus activities such as the 
Spanish Tertulia — the Thursday 
night get-together between AST 
and civilian Spanish students—and 
the Carnegie Tartan. In case you 
didn’t know, he’s the man who’s 
been putting the A. V. P.’s beneath 
the Army editorials for the past 
couple of months. He got a bit of 
practice in Army news reporting 
during the fall term when he edited 
the old Company D Dope, and con­
sequently was the logical choice— 
and a very good one, too—to boss the 
Army section of the Tartan when 
they joined us the first of January.
“Van Pat” is one of the most in­
teresting khaki clad GI’s ever to 
roam the soot-covered expanses of 
Skibo’s campus (Incidentally, the 
only thing we have against him is 
that he considers Pittsburgh a ghast­
ly place as far as the grime is con­
cerned). He really can’t be classed 
as Government Issue, though, be­
cause he is very definitely an 
individual. There is a certain in­
cisiveness about his personality 
which is heightened by his sharply 
chiseled features and his clipped, 
rather British manner of speaking. 
There’s a bit of the oriental in him 
too. That he may have picked up in 
the course of his many visits to Chi­
cago’s Chinatown. In his ramblings 
in the oriental world AVP has pick­
ed up a mad passion for Chinese Tea 
Gambling which game he always 
wins due to the fact that he knows 
the proper tea to put his money on. 
From his latest ventures in this 
little game of chance, AVP brought
¥
Have a “Coke”=Muchas felicidades
(MANY CONGRATULATIONS)
... from Caracas to Cleveland
To strike up friendship, your Yank oil-driller in South America 
says, Have a “Coke", and he’s said, I'm your pal. World-wide, 
Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the 
genial gesture of friendliness everywhere... just as it is at home 
with Coca-Cola in your refrigerator.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTSBURGH, PA-
back from furlough a number of 
beautifully carved statuettes for his 
friends at Tech. Following another 
slant eyed hobby, Van collects ori­
ental art and various rare knives 
which he names after the girls he 
has known.
When still in civilian clothes, 
“Van Pat” managed to get two and 
three-fourths years of college at 
DePaul University in Chicago— 
where he studied Liberal Arts and 
Science and was editor of the De- 
paulis, the school newspaper—and a 
similar length of time at the Uni­
versity of Chicago where he con­
currently took a military course. 
Before he joined the U. S. Army, 
Van Pat saw quite a bit of the world 
besides Chinatown. He traveled ex­
tensively in Canada—seeing both 
the Atlantic and Pacific oceans but 
neither from the U. S., and hitting 
the arctic circle three times. When 
he was seventeen, he ran away with 
some of his Canadian friends and 
joined the Fourth Montreal Armor­
ed Division, but his parents got him 
withdrawn on the age technicality 
charge.
In his travels, this GI has had a 
few experiences not aesthetic. While 
at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, he very 
nearly went AWOL to elope with a 
WAC when both were a little gay, 
but he was detained by one of his 
buddies who knocked him cold and 
dragged him back to the barracks. 
Another little incident occurred 
when he took up a bet that he could 
kiss a girl and duck out before she 
slapped him. He lost the bet.
Since meeting a certain darling 
little MMCC sophomore named 
Phoebe Wilson, however, all Van 
Pat’s wild times have been put in 
the far distant past. Rumor has it 
that she’ll be drawing him back to 
Pittsburgh after the war despite his 
hatred of the smog, but at the mo­
ment AVP’s only interest is to get 
at the Japs. His hatred of them 
amounts to a phobia because they 
bayonneted one of his friends when 
he was down—lying in a hospital in 
Hong Kong with a broken leg. When 
he left Tech he said that his greatest 
desire was to see action as soon as 
possible. He said, too, that he hated 
to leave Carnegie.
“Coke” = Coca-Cola
It'* natural for popular name* 
to acquire friendly abbrevia­
tion*. That’s why you hear 
Coca-Cola called “Coke’’.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

'TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1944___________________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
One of
At the AST Commencement ex­
ercises last Friday Director Webster 
N. Jones paid a well-deserved 
tribute to those soldiers who, in ad­
dition to their studies, found time 
to contribute to Carnegie Tech by 
serving on A.C.A.C., the Intramural 
Board and various other extra cur­
ricular organizations. We of the 
Tartan heartily concur in this praise, 
yet we feel that Dr. Jones left out 
one of the GI’s whom we, in our 
natural and excusable prejudice, be­
lieve to have done more than any 
other AST man. May this descrip­
tion of his past and present atone 
for the omission of Private Harvey 
Wallace Sherman, ex-military ed-
itor, ex-member of the Spring Car­
nival Committee, ex-member of the 
dance committees of Companies A 
and B, ex-player on an army mush- 
ball team,' and ex-pounder of the 
bass drum.
On May 22, 1924, the world and 
the Sherman family was enriched 
by the arrival of a little bundle of 
vocal chords in a hospital on Bush- 
wick Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. For 
the next three years the patter of 
little feet were dro\vr°d under the 
continuous din of the little darling’s 
voice . . . then as now Harvey al­
ways had something to say. Out of 
the bowling baby slowly emerged 
a Brooklyn brat and then a grade- 
school boy, until Harvey finally out­
grew the shade of Brooklyn’s tree, 
dropped his B’s, and became a pupil 
in Manhattan’s outstanding public 
high school, Townsend Harris, at the 
tender age of twelve.
Sherman Junior, true to form, fin­
ished the four-year high school 
course in three, graduating when he 
was just fifteen, and enrolled in the 
Engineering School of C.C.N.Y., the 
College of the City of New York. 
The sudde i death of his father 
forced Harvey to become virtually 
self-supporting after one semester 
in college, and he achieved this by 
working after school in a plant as­
sembling and selling photographic 
shutters and lenses. In 1942 he quit 
school and his job and went down 
to the Army Enlistment Office, only 
to be rejected because of bad eye­
sight. Expecting to be drafted soon, 
however, Harvey did not return to 
C.C.N.Y., but became an apprentice 
of one of the few romantic trades 
the machine age has not eliminated,
the Boys
. . . Harvey W. Sherman
the art of diamond cutting. In 
eight months Harvey became well 
acquainted with the rudiments of 
this difficult handicraft, but then, in 
February 1943, his career was 
abruptly ended by a greeting from 
the President.
Private Sherman’s army record 
began in Camp Upton, the Long 
Island Reception and Classification 
Center for the New York area. 
After ten days he was shipped—of 
all places—to Fort Casey or a lonely 
little island in Puget Sound, Wash­
ington. “Lonely” seems to be a de­
cided euphemism, for aside from 
soldiers there was nothing ... no 
towns, no restaurants, no women. 
Three long months were spent in 
sweat and boredom, until Harvey 
became one of only two soldiers 
from the entire Northwestern area 
to qualify for the ASTP.
The University of Utah at Salt 
Lake City was the next stop in Har­
vey’s odyssey, for there he was pro­
cessed for the Specialized Training 
Program. Although this mainly 
consisted of going out every night, 
“I didn’t have a sugar to leave in 
Salt Lake City.” And from there 
Harvey came to Carnegie Tech.
Harvey arrived here in May, 1943, 
and was placed into the second term 
of the ASTP. Subsequently he fin­
ished terms, three, four, five, and 
six, becoming one of the few sol­
diers to stay at Carnegie Tech for 
five semesters. During his stay he 
had a finger—a valuable and appre­
ciated finger—in almost every pie. 
He served on the committees plan­
ning the dances for companies A and
B, did a lot of work for Spring Car­
nival, became a member of the 
Army band, and when Jimmy 
Vaughn resigned as our military 
editor, Harvey was the logical man 
to fill his shoes.
He has done this magnificently. 
We do not measure the caliber of a 
Tartan staff member by the length 
and quality of his or her articles; we 
pay much value to cheerfulness, 
good fellowship and many other in­
definable attributes which make a 
person pleasant colleague. Harvey 
had an abundant amount of these 
qualities, and everyone, flunkie and 
editor alike, enjoyed his presence 
immensely. When we had a blank 
space to fill, and tugged at our wigs 
for inspirations, Harvey was ready 
with an article, and when, after long 
and hot hours in the office, we felt 
inclined to toss the whole shebang 
out of the window, Harvey restored 
our tempers and patience with a 
joke or pun.
Harvey, your graduation has left 
a gap in our ranks which we shall 
not be able to fill. You deserve a 
lot, and we wholeheartedly hope 
that you will get it, and that some­
day, soon, we shall again be privi­
leged to work with you.
1944 Thistles Arrive 
Here For Distribution
The 1944 Thistle made its ap­
pearance on Friday, July 28, 1944, 
at 2:15 P.M. Originally scheduled 
for publication in April, the Thistle 
was delayed by late copy.
Many Are Sponsors 
For Endowment Fund 
Benefit on Sept. 23
September 23, during afternoon 
and evening in the Carnegie Tech 
Gymnasium, “The Women’s Endow­
ment Fund Benefit will be held to 
help raise the required four million 
dollars before June 30, 1946. If this 
quota is met, the Carnegie Corpora­
tion of New York will double every 
dollar contributed. The Buhl Foun­
dation will then match every dollar.
Mrs. Winthrop Slocum is chair­
man of the Benefit and the follow­
ing are sponsors:
Mrs. Andrew Carnegie
Mrs. Rosswell Miller
Mrs. Samuel Harden Church
Mrs. Arthur Arten Hammerschlag
Dr. and Mrs. Robert E. Doherty
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Hunt
Mrs. G. L. Tillbrook
Mrs. Josiah Cohen
Mrs. Charles Watkins
Miss Isabella Chalfant
Mr. William Treuo
Mrs. William Moorhead
William L. Mellon
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Perry
William Watson Smith
H. J. Heinz II
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Byers
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Wilson
Edward Balken
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Casey
Com. and Mrs. Winthrop Slocum
Mayor and Mrs. Cornelius Scully
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Eabenson
Mrs. Ralph Munn
Mr. and Mrs. S. C. McConnahey
Mr. Walter Demmler
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Glock
Mrs. A. H. McCann
Mrs. Maria McKee
Four Teams To Corfipete 
In New Softball League
, In order to round out the summer 
intra-mural season, a new softball 
league, composed entirely of civil­
ian teams, is being formed. Another 
league, comprising the army teams, 
will probably be added later. 
v At the writing only four teams 
have filed entries: they are Delta 
Tau Delta, Beta Theta Pi, Theta Xi, 
and a combination of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon-Beta Sigma Rho, called the 
“Bears.” On the basis of past per­
formances the “Delts,” who won 
their last three games in previous 
competition, appear to have the 
strongest squad. The Betas may 
provide plenty of competition, al­
though they are without the serv­
ices of their star pitcher, Riddell. 
The “Delts” hold a slight edge by 
virtue of a post season game be­
tween the two teams. This game 
was called in the fifth inning of 
play with the “Delts” leading.
Since the league is strictly civil­
ian the competition should be keen 
and well balanced. Although only 
four teams have entered, the sched­
ule is drawn up and student interest 
is high.
G S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0103
Lieut. Brinn To Wed 
Former Tech Student
________________________________3
Dave Brinn, former Tech student 
now a Second Lieutenant Bombar­
dier in the U. S. Army, was home on
furlough in Pittsburgh last week. 
He was given his commission in 
Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Thursday night he left for New 
York to marry Doris Cohen, an offi­
cial Tech campus romance item. 
She had completed two years of her 
dramat course, and he had finished 
four out of the five years in archi­
tecture when, last May, Dave left 
for the Army and she quit school.
Prof. Salandra . . .
Continued from page 1 
the First World War he served in 
the American Army, being stationed 
at Fort Vancouver, Washington, 
from December 1917 to January 
1919. During this time he received 
his naturalization papers. Follow­
ing his discharge rom the Army he 
entered Reed College in Portland, 
receiving his A.B. in 1923. After 
a year of high school teaching, he 
received a Fellowship at the Uni­
versity of Washington. At Stan­
ford University, he received his 
M.A. in 1927. After a few more 
years of teaching he was awarded 
his Ph.D. at the University of Cali­
fornia. In working for his degrees, 
Dr. Salandra specialized in Latin 
American history and culture.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINiSS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Sqnirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1944
One of the Girls
She Knows Everything About Everything
Guess who? A beautiful red­
head, a senior secretarial, and a girl 
graced by the characteristic happi­
ness of a little robin. Well, that 
gave it away. Right, you’ve guessed 
it. She’s that popular Kappa Kappa 
Gamma prexy, Helen Robinson, 
known over the campus as just 
“Robin.”
The story of Robin is a long story. 
But to tell the most in a few words, 
she has been, in her illustrous career 
at Margaret Morrison College, a 
member of the Mortar Board, presi­
dent of CWCA, president of 
CWENS, Associate Editor of the 
Thistle, an active member of Pi Del­
ta Epsilon, and, to top everything 
else, the 1944 Thistle “Queen.” Robin 
is still active in many of the organ­
izations now on the campus.
Robin’s secret passion for the last 
few months has been to get out the 
Thistle, which has been, in her own 
words, “only slightly delayed.” Now 
that the Thistle is out, she can set 
her heart at ease and sleep again at 
night.
Underneath her staid appearance, 
Robin harbors another secret pas­
sion: men. Being very reluctant to 
talk on the subject, all she would 
say was, “I have no partiality, I like 
all types.” Rumor has it that she 
has her eyes on a certain male (a 
Beta, by the way). But who be­
lieves rumors anyway? Even so, 
there’s still the old Kappa Gamma 
standby: “Kappa kisses, Kappa
kisses.” Need any more be said?
Robin carries her impartiality far. 
She enjoys everything in life, and 
gets as much fun out of one thing 
as another. Her spare time is spent 
in knitting and in participating in 
all sports. _____________
ASTP Graduation .. .
Continued from page 1 
mand, for the work the ASTP did in 
helping tornado victims of McKees­
port in the recent disaster. After 
the orders of the day were read, the 
entire regiment passed in review 
and marched over to the Sylvan 
Theater where they took their places 
for the graduation ceremonies, pre­
sided over by Dr. Jones. The main 
speaker was Colonel Richard W. 
Cooksey, Cavalry, who spoke on the 
subject of Leadership. Certificates 
were then awarded to the members 
of the graduating class by Major 
Boberg and presented by Dr. Work, 
representing the Electrical Engi­
neering Dept, and Prof. Estep, rep­
resenting the Mechanical Engineer­
ing Dept.
The two men of the ASTP unit 
who achieved the highest scholastic 
records were presented with cer­
tificates which will enable them, as 
soon as they are released from the 
army, to enter Carnegie Tech, and 
complete their credits towards their 
degree at Tech. These two men are 
James K. Ballou of Lakeside, Cali­
fornia, and Harold S. Turnbell of 
Carey, Ohio.
Special mention was made of 
those ASTP men who took a prom­
inent part in activities on campus 
while here for the year and a half; 
Dr. Jones read the names of those 
men who participated on the army 
football team which won the inter­
mural championship.
After her graduation in August, 
Robin plans to get a job as a secre­
tary and hopes to be a success in 
business and to “get married even.” 
Even though her four year course 
has been condensed into three years, 
Robin will sorely miss the old Car­
negie campus, where she will be 
leaving behind many dear friends 
and going forth into the world with
only fond memories of her good 
times.
Her particular pet hate for the 
past months has been people who 
are incessentantly askin’, “When is 
the Thistle coming out?”
After she has made a fortune or 
two and married a rich man (or 
two), Robin wants to leave Pitts­
burgh, which is her home town, and 
travel over the world.
Always at home at a dance, Robin 
is a splendid dancer and conversa­
tionalist. After she leaves Carnegie 
in August, there will be a vacant 
spot in all ’campus activities.
Thoughts . . .
“When will we not be wasted 
without success?”
I am the objective cloud viewing 
the spot, called earth, who is asked 
periodically by each generation the 
above question.
I am the same cloud that enter­
tains little boys on warm, cumulus, 
dreamy days by resembling the 
Knights of King Authur’s Court or 
Jack-and-the-Bean Stock or Sleep­
ing Beauty.
I am now veiling the evening star 
with my thin atmosphere so that I 
might flicker hope into the breast of 
the war full world.
I, too, am the sooty cloud that 
shadows all the battle ground; 
damping all the soft sand to form 
muddy anklets; chilling the air to 
bite, to ache, to thud against a 
clouded brain. That is all that re­
mains ... a shadowed, dampened, 
chilled brain which can alone an­
swer, “When will we not be wasted 
without success?”
The cloud of events, the clouds of 
confusion, the cloud of memories, 
all assemble in a cranical hemis­
phere. They move in a circle; they 
integrate into a maelstrom; they are 
seeking an outlet.
As the earth rotates, it also moves 
up, spiraling, soaring out of its orbit. 
So must the clouded mind of man­
kind spiral, soar up beyond the orbit 
of haze to answer, “When will we 
not be wasted without success?”
Civil. Eng. Head ...
Continued from page 1
In 1927-28 he helped the John R. 
Freeman Traveling Fellowship of 
the American Society of Civil En­
gineers for the study of hydraulic 
engineering in Europe.
He is a member of Theta Tau, Tau 
Beta Pi, Gamma Alpha, Sigma Xi, 
Phi Kappa Phi, and Chi Epsilon col­
legiate professional and honor so­
cieties; the American Society of 
Civil Engineers; the American So­
ciety of Mechanical Engineers; the 
Society for the Promotion of Engi­
neering Education; the American 
Association for the Advancement of 
Science; the American Geophysical 
Union; the American Society for 
Testing Materials; and the Ameri­
can Public Works Administration. 
He is a constant contributor to the 
journals of these societiees.
Dr. Mavis is a past member of the 
Committee on Hydraulic Research 
of the American Society of Civil En­
gineers; a member of the Executive 
Committee of the Central Penn­
sylvania Section of the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers and 
of a number of committees of the 
American Geophysical Union; past 
chairman of the Civil Engineering 
Division and of the Committee on 
Engineering Research of the Society 
for the Promotion of Engineering 
Education; and a member of the 
Committee on Engineering Educa­
tion after the war, and the Com­
mittee on Graduate Study of the So­
ciety for the Promotion of Engineers 
ing Education. He is a registered 
professional engineer.
Pittsburgh...
Continued from page 2 
grace and defeat. As his party of 
400 Highlanders crept towards the 
fort, they, like Braddock, were am­
bushed and massacred between what 
is now Smithfield and Wood Streets. 
You have passed there often an£ 
never seen those scalpless ghosts, 
who 186 years ago died there in fear 
and pain. Two hundred men were 
slaughtered and we remember them 
not. Meanwhile Grant, seeing his 
men flee helter-skelter and realizing 
his hopeless plight, fought on stub­
bornly. It is told that one time dur­
ing the battle our temperamental 
major sat down on the banks of the 
Allegheny with his feet in the water 
and moaned, “My heart is broken:
I shall not outlive this day!” He hot­
ly refused to leave the scene of his 
defeat and, after a noble struggle, 
was finally captured.
The tragic news of Grant’s mis­
fortune might have discouraged a 
weaker man but Forbes pressed on 
undaunted. The French, lacking 
both insufficient ammunition and 
total Indian support, and led (or 
rather misled) by a drunken gen­
eral, watched the English advance 
with growing fear. Thus, before 
Forbes’ army had reached Fort Du- 
quesne, the French had burned it 
and, by the light of the flames re­
treated up the Ohio. On that 
bright November day in 1758, the 
tired English army marched down 
what was later called Forbes Road 
and is now Forbes Street and ar­
rived triumphantly at the still 
smoldering remains of the old 
French stronghold. Once again 
Englishmen trod the Golden Tri­
angle; once again the Union-Jack 
flew over this battlescarred land 
which was washed in the blood of 
their comrades.
Dramat In Movies . ..
Continued from page 1 
he says. “But I’m not afraid of be­
ing typed because I’m sure pro­
ducers are as fully aware of that as 
I am.”
In The Eve of St. Mark Eythe, the 
virile young actor who zooms to 
stardom as the film’s “Quizz West” 
proves himself an extraordinarily 
potent screen personality. As the un­
pretentious soldier whose sincere 
convictions sway his fever-ridden 
squad to an heroic last stand against 
the Japs, Eythe reveals himself as 
an artist of such rarely talented 
caliber that he is very likely to 
emerge as the most important film 
name of the year.
The old superstition about good 
luck coming in threes worked out 
for William Eythe. The first good 
luck sign came when he was as­
signed one of the top roles in “The 
Eve of St. Mark.” Secondly he re­
ceived word that Tommy Dorsey had 
taken a 30-day option on a song 
which he composed during his time 
off between his only previous films 
—The Ox-Bow Incident and The 
Song of Bernadette.” And for lucky 
strike three he received a five ‘hun­
dred dollar check for an option on 
his mystery novel Slightly on the 
Homocide, which he completed be­
fore starting work on The Eve of St. 
Mark. Eythe, however, is keeping 
his fingers crossed; options have 
been dropped before.
At present he is working on a new 
movie, A Wing and a Prayer.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
