ATO to Lose Ground 
as Forbes Expands
by Barbara Shumovich
The barricades, trenches and heavy 
machinery along Forbes Avenue are the 
first stage of a $362,000 project intended 
to reduce accidents at the intersections of 
Forbes with Morewood Avenue and Beeler 
Street.
In the process, ATO will lose ten to 
fifteen feet of its lawn, the campus will 
lose the land formerly covered with side­
walk on the Skibo side of Forbes, and 
commuters may finally get a pair of 
enclosed bus shelters.
Construction will reach from the Beeler 
Street intersection to a point 100 yards 
beyond the Morewood intersection. A left 
turn lane will be added for cars turning 
from Forbes onto Morewood, and new 
lights and signs will be added to smooth 
the traffic flow.
Bus pull in lanes will be added to ease 
the heavy flow of bus traffic. For out­
bound buses, the lane will extend onto the
HFI PS KEEP CMU SOL VENT
Men working at Forbes and Beeler.Photo by Nick Lardas
cut, after the traffic signal. The land for 
incoming buses will be situated on the city 
side of the Forbes Avenue intersection.
Disagreement remains over the bus 
shelters. Dave Bond, Planning and Research
Director for Port Authority Transit, said 
that PAT would put a shelter next to cach 
bus lane if C-MU would give permission. 
But he claims the university has only
continued on page 7
Lab Tests Food Additives
Dr. C.P. Carpenter, Director of 
Bushy Run Labs.
Photo by Frank Stein
by John Craun
A half-hour drive west on Route 22 (2 
hours if you get lost and stuck in rush 
hour) past Monroeville, past the Turnpike, 
past Murrysville and into the wilds of the 
Pennsylvania countryside brings one to, of 
all things, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
More exactly, to a facility of Mellon 
Institute known as Bushy Run. Don’t 
bother looking for it on the University 
map or in the catalog. It’s not there. The 
map in the “rides wanted” area of Skibo 
gives a good idea of its location, though. 
It’s along Route 22 about two miles north 
of Bushy Run Battlefield State Park (more 
on that later), and 22 miles east of CMU.
The Bushy Run campus consists of two 
long, single-story, Pennsylvania fieldstone 
laboratories that sit on an immaculately 
landscaped 25-acre lawn, on top of a hill in 
the rolling countryside. The two building
have “Radiation Laboratories” and 
“Chemical Hygiene Laboratories” carved in 
the stone above their respective doorways.
The large lawn is part of a 230-acre site 
purchased for CMU by Mr. Mellon for the 
1958 construction of the Butfiy Run faci­
lities. Much of the land is rented to local 
farmers, and just recently the University 
sold 90 acres for about a third of a million 
dollars.
The building labeled “Radiation Labora­
tories” contains a device known as a Van 
de Graaff Accelerator which is used to 
irradiate materials so that the effects of 
high-energy irradiation may be studied. 
The investigations, headed by Dr. Robert
H. Schuler with a staff of about twenty 
people, are currently focused on high- 
energy chemical reactions. In other words, 
this Van de Graaff thing zaps chemicals 
with lots of energy, the zapped chemicals 
continued on page 5
October 9, 1973 Volume 74 Number 4
C-MU Playing 
The Market
by Rob Simbeck
The l.69? return that C-MU’s invest­
ments earned in 1972-73 (as announced in 
President Cyert's State of the University 
address) looks small compared with the 
69?to 89? that anyone can earn with an 
insured savings and loan certificate. 
Actually, it’s simply an example of the risk 
of playing the stock market. Another, un­
related example: In 1969, the university 
invested nearly SI ,000.000 in “short term” 
Penn Central securities. Now, four years 
later, C-MU is faced with the prospect of 
getting only 209? of that back.
The university invests, its endowment 
fund-about $128,000.000 last year-in 
stocks and bonds with the goal of earning 
an annual 109? to 12% in dividends and 
interest over the long run. Hopefully, the 
endowment’s income can be used toward 
yearly operating expenses.
George O. Luster, C-MU Treasurer, ex­
plained why the University doesn't put its 
money in a savings and loan, where it is 
assured of a consistent 6% to 89? return: 
“You can’t invest at that interest rate 
because that’s roughly the inflation rate. 
You don’t gain anything. It should be 
twice that amount so you have something 
to draw out and work with.”
The 72-73 return on the endowment 
investments was about $7,000,000. Due to 
market fluctuations, though, the market 
value of the endowment fund fell to 
$124,000,000, leaving the University with 
a net increase of only 1.69?. The 
$7,000,000 represents about 18% of the 
year’s operating funds.
General directives for investment plan­
ning come from the Finance Committee of 
the Board of Trustees. The particulars are 
handled by the University’s investment 
agents: Mellon Bank, Pittsburgh National 
continued on page 6
Food Service: New 
Head, New Policies
by Thomas Kendig
Food Services underwent major changes 
this semester with the abolition of seconds 
at Skibo, the elimination of special event 
dinners, the issuance of a card punching 
system to discourage fraud, and the resig­
nation of important members of the staff, 
including Production Manager George 
Froehlich, Unit Manager Gunter Sinsil, and 
Dietician Susan Shearer. The driving force 
behind many of the changes was the 
appointment of Rita Cohen as Director of 
Food Service, replacing the acting director, 
David Allison.
Under Allison, food services entered a 
contest held by the National Association of 
University and College Food Services. 
Competing against 171 private universities, 
C-MU won first place for the daily menu.
second place in the special meals category, 
and third place for its cash customer 
service.
Ms. Cohen, a graduate of the now 
defunct Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, vows to improve on this record: “I 
am trying to make a definite step upward 
as far as food quality goes... I am 
working toward a more smooth, more 
efficient, and more profitable operation.”
In the process, she is restructuring food 
service. She instituted the new meal card 
system. She has made the process of 
purchasing food much more flexible, so 
that what gets ordered depends on daily 
price fluctuations (and it has become 
difficult to predict menus a week in ad­
vance). She goes into the kitchen herself to 
supervise the employees directly, and has 
taken on a number of jobs herself.
One of the new meal card punching machines at work.
Photo by Elliot Arons
Some employees admire her “ambitious­
ness.” Others reportedly are going crazy 
with “measuring, measuring, measuring.” 
A number of problems confront the 
new director. The unexpectedly large 
freshman class made the first few days of 
the semester especially hectic. The sudden
institution of new procedures has rubbed 
some employees the wrong way: reported­
ly some resented being told they could no 
longer give a slightly larger portion to 
someone like a member of the football 
team, even if there were plenty of food.
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973
EDITOR 8 NOTE
More on the language requirement?
This is bad editorial policy. To devote as much editorial space as the 
TARTAN has to something that affects as few people as the language 
requirement does is bad policy. This newspaper dwells too much on the 
problems of H&SS. People are tired of hearing about Dean Steinberg. OK.
But this week the TARTAN received two very intense responses to 
last week’s Editor’s Note. One was from three students in H&SS and is 
printed under "Letters”. The other was from Dean Steinberg himself and 
is printed on the News Comment page as a commentary. It is also very bad 
editorial policy to rebut a response to an editorial. This rule is about to be 
broken, too.
It could very well be that last week’s editorial was unduly vague, but 
these two responses raise some points that simply cry out to be answered 
or clarified. .
Messrs. Ferrante and Satterlee and Ms. Miller:
At no time have we claimed to be unbiased. We are very biased. 
That’s obvious. It Is quite proper to be opinionated on the editorial pages. 
However, / would like to believe that it is possible to be biased and open 
minded at the same time.
At no time has the TARTAN proposed that the language 
requirement be abolished. The thrust of our argument is that we see no 
reason that this requirement should be more rigorous than the other 
H&SS requirements. The college catalogue states that students are 
“required to demonstrate a proficiency level equivalent to the fourth 
semester of college work” in a modern language. If everybody was 
required the same level of “proficiency” in math and science, there would 
be no student body. They'd all leave.
And the analogy to junior high school students seems typical of the 
kind of underlying negative attitude toward the students that is behind 
some of the arguments for the requirement. By the time a student reaches 
college, he should be able to make fairly rational decisions about his 
future. After a certain exposure or study of a foreign culture on a college 
level, he should be able to decide for himself whether further pursuit of 
the subject will be of value. If a student is going to loaf his way through 
college, he’s going to do it anyways. If a student is truly dedicated, then 
it’s quite possible that he may have more valuable things to do with his 
time than to further study a language.
Dean Steinberg: i
Perhaps it was unfair to lay all the responsibility at your door. The 
college council has acted on this problem numerous times, and the 
mention of what the council has done was the most informative part of 
your response. However, / feel compelled to remention that by your own 
words the council is an “advisory” body, and the dean has the authority 
to make the final decision. As an example, / can recite the case of the 
grading system issue of the spring of 1972 where the council was, in fact, 
overruled by the dean. So it seems unlikely or impossible that the council 
could implement anything without the consent of the dean. And if the 
council has been like a brick wall, it’s very easy to draw the conclusion 
that it’s because the dean is like a brick wall.
Well. Maybe a “brick wall” isn’t the best analogy. There have been a 
few chips taken out of it. But here is what we mean by listening: If you 
were really listening, Dean Steinberg, the very fact that the issue has 
appeared before the council so many times—and keeps coming up—might 
call, for a re-examination of the basic principles underlying the 
requirement. Why is 12 units at an intermediate level defined as the 
proper “level of proficiency”? Instead of offering concessions, but still 
keeping the basic principle, arrive at a resolution to this problem— Why is 
the language requirement more rigorous than the other requirements?
In my dosed biased environment, this argument-or lack of one—is 
so obvious to me that / can’t help searching for other reasons for the 
requirement. And it seems like the “service” teaching that the department 
does in connection with the language requirement is unavoidably 
connected with the department’s survival—or at least, its health. This is 
meant as no slight to the department. It is excellent. Its scores on the FCE 
are all the more impressive if you accept the fact that many of the 
students taking it are probably less than enthusiastic about their subject.
The TARTAN is not trying to knock H&SS or the language 
department. But if the college is going to begin to realize some of its 
potential, there has to exist a way for ideas to get through the lower 
echelons of the university. The TARTAN is very committed to this. And 
it welcomes any further responses to this response to the responses to last 
week’s editorial. Enough said.
I’m still listening, but I’m not entirely convinced yet.
Steve Saunders 
Editor-in-Chief
ATTENTION:Graphic Design students, faculty and others 
endowed with creativity—help! We want to 
improve the TARTAN visually . Contact 
Christine Infante, Administrative Editor.
Readying Mental Exam To Block
^enate About-Face On Wild Pitch,For U.S.'* Troops Overseas Arrested
Russians Burning Studio
At Baltimore HotelREGARDLESS OF
Suburb Girl Watcher Claims 
• • • Strategy
Letters:
Editor:
In his editorial in the October issue of 
the TARTAN, Stephen Saunders proclaims 
his open-mindedness in dealing with Dean 
Steinberg and the H&SS language require­
ment. However, he constantly uses prejudi­
cial words and phrases such as: forced 
against their will, intense labor, discontent, 
anger, brutal, insensitive. He claims that 
every TARTAN reporter has approached 
Dean Steinberg with an open mind, yet has 
left “frustrated and infuriated.” If the re­
porters were truly open-minded, they 
would have had no pre-conceived ideas, 
and therefore would not have become 
frustrated. Saunders leaves his credibility in 
much doubt.
He views the language requirement as an 
unnecessary burden. Yet one of the major 
weaknesses of the American Institution is 
its refusal to acknowledge other cultures 
and their language. Saunders gives the im­
pression that learning to understand other 
peoples through their language is detrimen­
tal to our education. While students at 
other colleges are fighting for balanced cur­
riculum, Saunders seems to want to limit 
the scope of H&SS.
In the midst of his buck-shot of incom­
plete ideas and cheap character defama­
tion, Saunders throws in his eloquent view 
of education:
“These shouldn’t be any question about 
the fact that when people are forced a- 
gainst their will to do the kind of intense 
labor that is often necessary to fulfill the 
language requirement, it is a bad situation. 
It is a perversion of the educational 
system.”
He is parrotting the credo of self- 
gratification which states that educational 
validity is directly proportional to the stu­
dent’s whim or desire. Is it a valid excuse 
for a junior high student, unable to read, to 
say that because he wanted to play 
baseball, he didn’t learn?
That it is beneficial to have the desire to 
learn is granted. What is shocking is that a 
person of Saunders’ supposed intelligence 
views “proficiency as a cruel and unusual 
punishment. And a lousy way to run a 
university.” The lousy way to run an uni­
versity is to allow students to basket-weave 
their way through and to leave totally in­
continued on page 10tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls
News Editor............................Steve Correll Entertainment Editor .... Sue Klein
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans Events ............Jay Cohen
Head Reporter.......................Debbie Siegel Entertainment Staff . . Terry Cay wood
Craig Collins, Nonie Dempsey
News and Features Staff............................ Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell
Marcia Abernathy. Michael Baum Hank Levy sharon Neustein
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim Steve Perk|ns Cyndy Schmid,
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como Douy Stone
John Craun, Sharon Curcio
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon Sports Editor ....................Jeff Englund
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer Sports Staff....................Glenn Campbell
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas
Kevin Turcotte, Lois Wholey • Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Chip Yeager
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Photography Editors
Photography Staff
. . Elliot Arons 
Ed Levine 
. ¦Bfoes'wawtfen- 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
B<|f3n Smith, Frank Stein
Layout Staff................Arlene Berkowitz
Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Cartoonist............................Ron Wiggins
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government corporation of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines 
are 12 noon for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles 
and display ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business 
offices are located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973— Page 3
NEWS COMMENT___________________
More Talk on Languages
“The counter argument rests in a huge 
inconsistency withing the college of H&SS 
itself. If breadth and knowledge are really 
the primary concern why does depth only 
come into play with language?"
In her editorial Chris Infante questioned 
the fairness of the H&SS language 
requirement. Steve Saunders attributed the 
lack of change in the requirement to Erwin 
Steinber, Dean of H&SS, in his October 2 
editorial. Below is the Dean’s reply to what 
he considers the “TARTAN’s campaign 
against the modern language 
requirement. ”
I take it that your request to convince 
you in your editorial of October 2 was an 
invitation to reply to the TARTAN’s cam­
paign against the modern language require­
ment in H&SS. Thank you. It is pleasant to 
be asked to take part in a rational debate 
instead of being subjected to “editorial 
wisecracks, personal attacks, (and) a lot of 
badmouthing behind (my) back,” as you so 
succintly put it.
Let me comment first on the fact that 
you name me as “ the brick wall.” When 
your reporter came in to talk with me, I 
showed her the H&SS College Council 
minutes for two different years which 
stated clearly that the Council had re­
affirmed the modern language requirement. 
In fact the Council had reaffirmed a lan­
guage requirement each year for the last 
four years. I find your laying the responsi­
bility entirely at my door, therefore, 
puzzling, as is your refusal to accept the 
documentary evidence. (Someone not 
listening, you say? Yes, but who?)
I also puzzle over your image of the 
brick wall, which I would assume stands 
for lack of movement. The Council has, in 
fact, many times reduced or made more 
flexible the modern language requirement. 
First, it provided two different ways to 
demonstrate competence by testing out. 
Next it reduced the requirement from two 
nine-unit courses at the intermediate level 
to one twelve-unit course. It then approved 
a group of six-unit courses recommended 
by the department of Modern Languages so 
that students could have some choice of 
how they would fulfill the requirement. 
Finally it appointed a committee to inquire 
into the feasibility of substituting demon­
strated competence in computer language 
for competence in a modern language and, 
when the committee recommended such an 
option, approved the recommendation. It 
seems to me that all that shows that the 
Council not only listened, but moved 
considerably.
May 1 suggest that you listen. Listen to 
what the minutes of the H&SS College 
Council say: that the Council continually 
reaffirmed a modern language requirement, 
not Dean St«inberg; and that the Council 
repeatedly made that requirement easier to 
satisfy. Listen to the response that Chris­
tine Infante’s first article in the TARTAN 
drew: only twenty-six returned forms- 
something between a very quiet murmur 
and a deep silence. Miss Infante chooses to 
interpret that lack of response as an indica­
tion of apathy or fear. More likely it is a 
reflection of the fact that the modern lang­
uage requirement is not nearly the matter
of concern or disagreement that the TAR­
TAN thinks it is. If you send supporters of 
the anti-modern language campaign around 
with petitions, I’m sure that you could get 
more than twenty-three signatures. But the 
plain fact is that of about six hundred and 
fifty students and ninety or so faculty in 
H&SS, only twenty six of more than seven 
hundred people felt strongly enough to re­
ply, and not all of the twenty-six were 
against the requirement. The evidence is 
clearly in, and no amount of arguing or 
campaigning can change it.
Let me address now the reasons for the 
modern language requirement. They have 
been given by many people at every Col­
lege Council meeting at which the matter 
was discussed; I have offered them to every 
TARTAN reporter who has come to see 
me. Yet your editorial says nothing about
them-the central matters of the argument (Does this not suggest, perhaps, that you
are the one who is not listening?) The 
stated aim of programs in H&SS is “both 
the breadth necessary for a person to func­
tion effectively as a citizen and intellectual 
leader in the last third of the twentieth 
century and the depth necessary for a 
person to perform effectively in his or her 
chosen area of expertise.” (see pp. 146-7 of 
the current CMU catalogue).
Over a four-year period, the College 
Council has regularly and continually re­
corded its sense that “breadth” should in­
clude demonstrated proficiency in a 
modern language. The repeated concensus 
was that students who major in the human­
ities and social sciences can-and should- 
learn much about language in general and 
their own language in particular by study­
ing enough of a foreign language to be 
proficient in it. Similarly, many people felt 
that the study of culture that goes with 
competent foreign language instruction not 
only reduces the insularity and cultural 
naivete so common among Americans, but 
also makes students aware of important 
aspects of their own culture.
Now a word about my phrase “demon­
strated competence,” the equivalent, I 
think, of your phrase “requiring a certain 
proficiency,” which you say “can be cruel 
and unusual punishment.” The university 
asks for demonstration of competence or 
proficiency regularly in all courses and in 
all majors and in all programs, under­
graduate and graduate. So does any institu­
tion of higher learning worth attending. If 
we didn’t ask for competence and profi­
ciency and help our students attain it, why 
on earth would any student want to come 
to CMU? How long would you keep a 
reporter on the TARTAN who couldn’t 
demonstrate proficiency? Are you levying 
“cruel and unusual punishment” when you 
say to a would-be member of your news 
staff, “I’m sorry, but you really don’t write 
well enough for us to appoint you?”
You say that the reporters you send to 
me have open minds. I’m sure that they try 
to'Tiave. But were you aware that the last 
reporter you sent was personally involved 
with the problem? That reporter took four 
years of a foreign language in high school 
but didn’t bother to take the Achievement 
Test because of plans to attend art school. 
.;The reporter switched to H&SS two years
later to be faced with a language require­
ment. Would you call such a person an 
objective observer, however hard he or she 
tries to keep an open mind?
As for the requirement to take the test, 
what of students who study AP biology or 
history as seniors in high school and then 
don’t bother to take the AP test? Would 
anyone expect the biology or history de­
partment to waive that demonstration of 
competence and award such students AP 
credit anyhow?
You accuse me of not listening. What 
you really are complaining about is that I 
don’t agree with you. I very much doubt 
that the reporter you sent to talk with me 
would say that 1 didn’t listen. The reporter 
listened very carefully to what I said and 
understood clearly my position: and I lis­
tened very carefully to what the reporter 
said and understood clearly that position. 
Your reporter is an intelligent, articulate, 
persuasive and very pleasant person. We 
each listened- and we agreed that we dis­
agreed. Why does that leave the reporter 
“open minded” but me a “brick wall”?
I must also say a word about the 
department of Modern Languages itself. 
Despite the fact that it is one of the small­
est departments in the university, despite 
^he fact that it does a higher percentage of 
“service” teaching (as distinguished from 
teaching its own majors) of any depart­
ment in the university, despite the TAR­
TAN’s claim that the modern language re­
quirement frustrates and even angers 
numbers of the students-despite all these 
seemingly overwhelmingly negative facts, 
the department of Modern Languages 
earned the highest instructor evaluation 
rating of any department on campus in the 
A Phi O course and instructor evaluation 
for the fall of 1972. In those ratings, se­
mester after semester, year after year, the 
department is always first or second, never 
lower than third. Course ratings for the 
department are also very high. In addition, 
person for person, it is one of the most*
scholarly and creative departments on cam­
pus: its members publish novels, poems, 
and critical and scholarly articles and 
books, and now the new Latin American 
Literary Review ... I’d be happy-no, 
proud--to show you the department’s pub­
lication list. And it is alive with new ideas: 
area courses, mini courses, interdisciplinary 
courses, a translation center, self-paced in­
struction, cooperative programs first with 
Chatham and now with Pitt . . .
I would suggest that the TARTAN 
would better serve the students of CMU by 
not trying to foster unhappiness among 
them about the modern language require­
ment in H&SS when, in fact, the lack of 
response to Miss Infante’s pleas show there 
is relatively little unhappiness. I would urge 
that, instead, the TARTAN respond to the 
spriit of flexibility that the H&SS College 
Council has shown repeatedly by recogniz­
ing that the Council has listened frequently 
and regularly and has, in fact, made the 
requirement considerably easier to fulfill. I 
would even have the temerity to venture 
that, in recompense for making the depart­
ment of Modern Languages feel so fre­
quently not only unappreciated but even 
beleagured, the TARTAN might recognize 
in its columns the virtues of that small but 
intrepid group of faculty members and 
urge on students that some of the best 
return they can get for their tuition money 
can come from that group of dedicated, 
unusually competent teachers and scholars.
Finally, let me thank you again for your 
invitation to reply and the courtesy of 
your columns. When a student newspaper 
issues an invitation to debate instead in 
issuing invective, 1 recognize responsible 
journalism and demonstration ot 
competence.
Now the issue...
You have just read Dean Erwin 
Steinberg’s comments on the personal 
charges raised in Stephen Saunder’s 
editorial, answering with the same. What all 
of us have failed to be presented with, is 
Dean Steinberg’s comments towards Chris 
Infante’s editorial which presented the 
issue not the blame.
The Editors
Action!
In my nominal role of chairman of the 
H&SS faculty, let me respond to the recent 
TARTAN challenges to our modem lan­
guage requirement by suggesting that we 
discuss arranging a student-faculty debate 
of the issue before an audience of con­
cerned members of H&SS. There is no 
reason for Dean Steinberg to bear the 
brunt of protest, if we can explore the 
issues together and determine how strong 
the feeling for change is.
D P Demurest, Jr.
Department of English

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
Page 4—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1975
VISTA/PEACE CORPS representatives will
be on campus October 15-16 in the Skibo 
Lobby from 9 am- 4:30 pm. Especially 
needed Business majors, French speakers to 
teach English in West Africa, Spanish 
speakers for Latin America and the U.S., 
Architects and City Planners, civil 
engineers, and anyone who has lived or 
worked on a farm. Liberal Arts majors also 
welcome. Brochures, information and 
applications will be available at the booth. 
Placement Office interviews on November 
1.
The Crumbling Wall Coffee house, located
at 4515 Forbes Ave., Oakland, features 
each Friday evening: poetry, music,
theatre, dance, films, conversation, body 
painting, and coal throwing. The coffee 
house is open each Friday evening from 9 
pm-1 am.
*9
Simple, 
straight-forward, 
classic-out of step 
with today's 
throwaway culture. 
Refillable cartridge, 
ballpoint or fiber tip 
marker in basic tan 
or navy blue.
$1.98: not bad for a pen 
you may use the 
rest of your life.
$1.98
SHI AFFE*. WORLD-MIDt. A COMPANY
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
announces an Inter-campus Undergraduate 
Social on Saturday, Oct. 13, at 9 p.m. in 
the Hillel library, 3rd floor, Y-IKC 
building, 315 S. Bellefield St.
Jewish Philosophy Series, sponsored by
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University will be 
held seven consecutive Sundays at 7.30 
p.m. starting October 14. They will be held 
in the Hillel lounge, 3rd floor, Y-IKC, 315 
S. Bellefield St.
Israeli and Folk Dancing will be every
Monday evening at 8:00 p.m. starting Oct. 
15. Location: 1st floor Ladies Lounge in 
the Y-l KC at 315 S. Bellefield St.
Lunch and Lecture Series entitled Perspec­
tives on the Jews of Eastern Europe is 
every Monday at noon in the Hillel 
Library, 3rd floor, Y-IKC, 315 S. 
Bellefield. Cost for lunch is $.75.
Lunch is served from 11:30-1:00 Monday
through Thursday at Cafe Tel Aviv in the 
B'nai B'rith Hillel Dining Room at 315 S. 
Bellefield. It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith.
The C-MU Activities Board will present a
free concert featuring the STRAWBS on 
Thursday, Oct. 11 at 8:30 in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Tickets are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk with a C-MU I.D.
Jack Forem author of the recently 
published book "Transcendental 
Meditation, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi," and 
"The Science of Creative Intelligence" will 
speak at the Skibo Ballroom, Wednesday 
Oct. 10 at 8:00 p.m. No admission charge. 
All are invited to attend.
Ed Evans, Pittsburgh Poet, reads his works
at the Crumbling Wall coffee house, 4515 
Forbes Avenue, Friday evening, October 5, 
10:00 p.m. Sponsored by Luteran Campus 
Ministry.
The Mellon Institute Chorus is a special
activity in the Mellon Institute Building, 
and rehearses every Tuesday in the Con­
ference Room there from 12:30 to 1:30 
p.m. It is a group that enjoys singing good 
and "snappy" music, and will now prepare 
a special Christmas program. Members of 
the campus community-students and 
faculty alike-are invited to join the chorus 
if you enjoy singing. The group is directed 
by the well-known Pittsburgh musician 
Paul Koche. If interested, come and sit in 
on a rehearsal, or contact Ruth Kaye, 
Extension 534.
Do you have a problem, call us, The
Number. We are an organization of con­
cerned people who want to hear what you 
have to say. We can talk about anything, a 
particular crisis, a complaint you may have, 
or just loneliness. If you have a phone you 
have a friend. Call The Number on Wed., 
Fri., and* Sat. 6 pm to Midnight at 
462-7520.
A Group Painting and Drawing Show is on
exhibit at the C-MU Art Gallery, 5200 
Forbes Avenue through October 19. If you 
missed the opening don't miss the Show! 
Hours ar.e Tuesday and Thursday 11:30 
am-8:00 pm, Wed., Fri., and Sat. 11:30 
am- 5:30 pm.
Women's Health Services, a non-profit
organization, has opened a low cost abor­
tion and contraception clinic at 625 
Stanwix Street in downtown Pittsburgh. It 
is open to all women and charges $150.00 
for an abortion using the vacum aspiration 
method under local anesthesia, requiring a 
three hour stay. The clinic performs free 
pregnancy tests on Monday mornings only 
from 9:30 to 11:30. Call first at 391-5203.
The Pied Piper players will hold auditions
for their upcoming production of Aladdin's 
Lamp in Room 39 Skibo from 7 to 11 P.M. 
on Wednesday and Thursday, October 10 
and 11. For more information call 
Matthew Neiburger at 682-1849.
A Bagel and Lox Brunch will take place on
Sunday, October 14, at 11:00 a.m. in room 
608, Student Union, Duquesne University.
- « -
Classified Ad's
Flu shots are available to students and staff
between 9 am and 4 pm at the Health 
Service Office in Morewood Gardens. Pay 
$1.00 at Cashier's Office and bring receipt.
The Department of Biological Sciences has
two groups of microscopes for sale. There 
are seven Bausch and Lomb, Academic 255 
series, at $75. These are only 4 or 5 years 
old, have built-in illumination, and 
originally cost over $300. Also for sale at 
$25 are older microscopes offered in the 
"as is” condition. All may be seen in the 
M.l. Building. Phone: 7-340.
Wanted: Used electric piano. 391-7860
evenings.
Custom Print Processing - Color and B/W
from 8mm to 2%"x3%" negatives and 
35mm slides. Dry Mounting, Retouching, 
Special Effects. Darlene Covaleski, ext. 847 
or 441-2766.
Female models needed for promotional
and TV campaign. Spare time. Experience 
unnecessary. Must be 21. Send photo to 
Datamatic. P.O. Box 7421 Oakland 
Station. Pgh., Pa. 15213 for interview.
Attention! Students of objectivism, ad­
mirers of novelist Ayn Rand, please con­
tact Ross Levatter, 301 Boss Hall; dis­
cussion group being formed.
Female Help Wanted! Partime (evenings) -
Assist in instructing Ballroom, Latin, Dis­
cotheque, Variety dancing. Experience 
unnecessary, will train, commissions, 
bonuses, incentives. 241-2162.
Any commuter interested in serving on the
CCCP Executive Board or as CCCP 
President should pick up a petition at 
Skibo Information Desk. Petitions are due 
October 12.
PERSONALS
Anna,
"You're O.K."
Your love is deep, deep as a chasm. 
You have such enthusiasm.
I'm never down,
When you're around,
You're O.K.
"Love me do” is your life's motto, 
Home alone or in my auto.
You are my sun,
That's why I come 
To say:
You're my heart's flame,
You never stain,
You're O.K.
Carl
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
mm NEW HILLEL HAPPENINGS : mm
Saturday. October 13 - 9 P.M. INTER-CAMPUS UNDERGRADUATE 
SOCIAL
Location: Hillel Lounge, Y-IKC, 3rd floor
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES starting October 14-7:30 P.M.- 
SEVEN CONSECUTIVE SUNDAYS
Location: Y-IKC. 3rd floor, Hillel Lounge
Lecturers: Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, B’Nai B’Rith Hillel
Jonathan Broido, Dept, of Philosophy, Univ. of Pgh.
Sunday. October 14 - 11:00 A.M. BAGEL AND LOX BRUNCH
Location: Duquesne University, Room 608 in Student Union 
Speaker: Professor William Fischer 
Topic: “Anxiety, Identity and Belief”
SUKKOT WEEKEND - Wednesday, October 10 - Saturday, October 13 
Get away from it all and relax!!
Call Ted - 421-6837 between 7-9 P.M. except Friday
CAFE TEL AVIV closed Thursdays October 11&18 due to Sukkot Festival. 
DELI DAYS will be Wednesdays October 10 & 17.
315 S. Bellefield Avenue ( Across from Heinz Chapel) 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday. October 9. 1973-Page 5
What's Happeningat Bushy Run
Two Pennsylvania fieldstone laboratories rest on a 230 acre site owned by C-MU.
--------------------—______________________________________________________PhQtP by Prank Stein,
The Van de Graff 
Accelerator
a
continued from page 1 ' 
do things that non-zapped chemicals don’t 
usually do, and the scientists use all kinds 
of elaborate gadgetry to figure out what’s
* going on. It is pure research - the foodstuff 
of Physicists and the like. It looked like a 
lot of fun, being out in the country with all 
that Star Trek type equipment to see what 
you can find. Dr. Schuler, by the way, was 
very kind in patiently and proudly 
explaining the gadgets.
The building marked “Chemical 
Hygiene Laboratories” is the work area of 
^ the Chemical Hygiene Fellowship, a group 
of scientists whose studies aim at ensuring 
safety in the production, handling and use 
of new organic chemicals. The Fellowship, 
one of the first of its kind in the U.S., has 
been sponsored since its inception in 1937 
by Union Carbide and through-out most of 
its history has been concerned with the 
products of Union Carbide. It is not as if 
. the lab were a part of Union Carbide, 
however. All of the research is published, 
and since 1967 products of other com­
panies have also been studied.
Toxicology 
The research called toxicology, basically 
involves exposing test animals (mice, rats, 
rabbits, and dogs) to various chemicals, 
observing the effects, and drawing con­
clusions about the chemical’s hazard to 
humans. The final result is that chemical 
materials can be used safely by industry 
and the public, which fits with the lab’s 
basic philosophy of safety before injury. 
The toxicologists are more concerned with 
the practical question of whether or not a 
certain chemical can be used in food 
packaging materials than the theoretical 
question of why it can or can’t (although 
its research helps people concerned with 
the latter problem).
The director of the lab and its staff of 
about forty, Dr. C. P. (“chemically pure”) 
Carpenter, was very kind in taking time to 
explain the lab’s work and give his opinions 
on business, government (“they write 
ridiculous laws sometimes because they 
don’t bother to find out what they’re 
talking about”), chemical “scares” (“Much 
shoddy research done on cyclamates”), 
kids today, and teaching (I was a professor 
for a while but I got sick of having to 
perform like a monkey every day whether I 
felt like it or not).
Bushy Run Aids Finances 
The countryside location of Bushy Run 
is justified, according to Dr. Carpenter, by 
the nature of the work done in the two 
labs. When the Van de Graaff is turned on 
it is radioactive, and although it is well 
protected it is generally agreed that 
radioactive things don’t belong in big cities. 
Also the toxicologists would have fore­
seeable problems in maintaining large 
numbers of animals at Mellon Institute.
Ecology-wise, Bushy Run has its own 
waste disposal plant (thoughtfully hidden 
from view), and there is no danger of 
radioactive wastes from the Van de Graaff.
Although Bushy Run is part of 
Carnegie-Mellon University, there is little 
student activity there. (Most students have 
never even heard of it.) There are about a 
half dozen grad students who work in the 
radiation lab, and there is also a summer 
program for a small number of undergrads 
that usually culminates with the students 
publishing after three month’s work.
If you’re not a physics grad or an under­
grad interested in radiation you may
wonder what Bushy Run has to do with 
you (outside of the fact that you both are 
part of the same university). Quite simply, 
it is helping to pay for your education. 
Sponsored research brings in 34% of CMU’s 
income and that is what they’re doing out 
on that lonely hilltop. So next time you 
decide that Carnegie-Mellon isn’t such a 
bad place after all remember the Van de 
Graaff zapping machine and the rats eating 
weird organic chemicals out in the 
Pennsylvania farm lands.
A final note of historical interest. Bushy 
Run derives its name from the site of the 
Battle of Bushy Run located near a creek 
called Bushy Run in the Bushy Run Battle­
field State Park (that makes sense). Back 
in 1763, you see, the Indians started an 
uprising against the British after the end of 
the French and Indian Wars when the 
English said they owned the Indian lands 
since they had beaten the French. The 
uprising was called Pontiac’s Rebellion (no** 
relation to GM) after one of its leaders, 
Pontiac, an Ottawa Indian chief. During 
the course of the uprising the Indians laid 
seige to Fort Pitt (that’s downtown, you 
know). Well, Colonel Henry Bouquet was 
leading an army of about 600 Highlanders 
(perhaps including one of Andrew 
Carnegie’s ancestors) and 200 Colonial 
Volunteers from Fort Bedford to relieve 
Fort Pitt when he was ambushed by an 
Indian war party at, of all places, Bushy
Bushy Run with researcher.
Photo by Frank Stein
Run. It turned out that Colonel Bouguet 
won (with heavy losses) and when he got 
to Fort Pitt the Indians laying seige had 
split. And that was the last major Indian 
battle in Pennsylvania, kids .. .
by John Craun
The Van de Graaff Accelerator in the 
radiation lab is rated at three million 
electron Volts. It works a 50 to 60 hour 
week and is probably the most frequently 
used Van de Graaff in the world right now. 
The room that houses it has 56-inch con­
crete walls and a panic shut-down system. 
Two seconds in that room while the Van 
de Graaff is operating would be fatal, but 
when it is not running it is perfectly safe.
The Van de Graaff accelerates electrons 
to 99.9% of the speed of light. Magnets are 
used to direct the electron path through 
about 2-inch pipes to any one of three or 
four experimental set-ups. This way the 
Accelerator can easily be shifted from one 
experiment to another.
Among the . experiments being con­
ducted now is a pulse-radiolysis experiment 
which has been operating regularly since 
1971. It uses light to analyze chemical 
intermediates in the reactions that occur 
when a chemical is given a burst of ex­
tremely high energy by the Van de Graaff s 
electron stream. These reactions usually 
have a duration in microseconds (one 
millionth of a second) and are part of the 
progressing energy series of photo­
chemical, X-ray, Van de Graaff, and laser 
induced reactions. Experiments are also 
performed to determine the geometries, 
reaction rates, and bond lengths of these 
intermediates.
The radiation lab includes other soph­
isticated equipment such as a mass spectro­
meter, a high-speed liquid chromatograph, 
and a mini-computer. The liquid chroma­
tograph was developed at the lab and is 
capable of analyzing a tenth of a ec of a 10 
to the -8th M solution. That’s the same as 
10 to the -10th grams which is about a 
millionth of a grain of sugar.
The mini-computer rapidly handles and 
processes the experimental data and is 
worked into a feed-back loop so that data 
from the experiment can be processed and 
then used to make adjustments. The com­
puter also graphs three dimensional data on 
a single sheet of paper and a program has 
been worked out so that these three- 
dimensional graphs can be “observed” 
from any point in space. The graphs are 
really something to see. You can look 
“into time” and see hills and valleys as the 
absorption and wavelength change.
Animals first
The work done in the Chemical Hygiene 
Laboratories could be called Biostatics 
with a chemical emphasis. A typical experi­
ment to check the effects of a particular 
chemical involves setting up and main­
taining reliable control groups and com­
paring these with animal groups exposed to 
the chemical in a particular, rigidly con­
trolled, systematic way. Various forms of 
exposure include a fixed amount of the 
chemical in the diet or in the atmosphere, 
and periodic administration of the chem­
ical to the eye or skin. After a given time 
period the animals are killed (painlessly) 
and rigorously examined for any effects on 
the eyes, lungs, liver, digestive tract, etc.
Two major areas are investigated: the 
effects of a single dosage (acute effects) 
and of repeated dosages (chronic effects). 
The research concerns the safety of plant 
workers and of the general public, 
respectively.
When the results of the animal ex­
periments are extrapolated to humans, a 
hundred-fold safety factor is allowed. For 
example, if the lethal acute dosage for a rat 
was one gram of the chemical per kilogram 
of bodyweight, the lethal dosage for humans 
would be set at 10 milligrams per kilogram 
of bodyweight. In practice this hundred­
fold safety factor becomes a 10, 20 or 
30,000-fold factor for the general public 
because of the small amounts of the 
chemicals that are used and additional 
safety factors added by industry.
And that’s what the hill-top scientists of 
Bushy Run do all day.PDP-8 The Brains of the Operation
Photo by Frank Stem

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9, 1973
Photo by Brian Smith
Pets
To keep or not to keep
Stocks and Bonds and C-MU
by Kevin Turcotte
This summer, C-MU housing director 
James Curl sent prospective dorm residents 
a letter announcing a ban on pets in the 
dorms. Along with it came a letter from 
the Western Pennsylvania Humane Society 
announcing that students will no longer be 
allowed to adopt pets.
Despite the prohibition, a TARTAN 
reporter was able to adopt a kitten at the 
Humane Society. In fact, Humane Society 
personnel tried to persuade him to take 
more animals.
According to Ms. Mildred Schad of the 
Humane Society, the ban on student 
adoptions came about because the Society 
feels students usually neglect animals. She 
said that the animals don’t receive proper 
medical care such as distemper shots or 
sterilization. The Society offers to spay or 
alter any pet from their kennels free, but 
“even though it’s free', students don’t take 
advantage of it,” she said. The Society 
notes that students often find that their 
parents do not want them to bring pets 
home during school vacations and take the 
pets back to another animal shelter instead. 
Ms. Schad puts it, “The Humane Society is 
almost one hundred years old and we know 
what we’re doing.”
¦Curl Director of Housing, stated in his 
letter to residents (which appears in full in 
the last issue of the TARTAN) that animals
Killer at Large
ATO
1500 years
While excavating ancient civilizations, 
archaeologists have also dug up a few 
ancient crimes, including murder. 
According to the October SCIENCE 
DIGEST, digs at Nubia, Pakistan, in 
England and in the American Southwest 
have uncovered the remains of what 
apparently were the victims of man’s worst 
crime against himself. Some leave the door 
open for a little archaeological sleuthing, 
such as the perfectly preserved body of a 
girl, dead for 1500 years and wearing a 
dress with the bloodstains still visible on it. 
Besides being raw material for detective 
stories, most of these finds also provide 
important clues about the cultures in 
which the crimes were committed.
can cause “interpersonal tensions” due to 
allergies, accidents and other reasons, can 
impair sanitation, and can endanger the 
furnishings. Housing had instituted a trial 
period last year, during which students 
were allowed to have pets, but it 
apparently didn’t work out.
When asked what disciplinary action the 
university would take against dorm resi­
dents owning pets, Dean Williams replied, 
“We would ask the student to get rid of the 
pet. If they didn’t they would be subjected 
to proper disciplinary action. It would 
depend-on the circumstances though.”
As for the Humane Society, part of its 
adoption procedure is a visit by an official 
about a month after the pet is acquired. If 
the official finds that the student has not 
taken proper care of the animal, the 
Society then “reclaims” it because, as Ms. 
Schad explains, “the animal is never really 
bought; the money paid for it is merely a 
donation and the Humane Society retains 
ownership of the animal.” Asked if the 
official would repossess an animal kept on 
campus in good conditions, she replied: 
“Probably not. It would depend on the 
university.”
And the kitten that the TARTAN 
reporter adopted? It lives in splendor with 
food, toys and affection. It even uses its 
litter box. Compared to the cages at the 
Humane Society, its new home is nirvana.
UNWANTED 
PREGNANCY?
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING IS A 
HOSPITAL-AFFILIATED ORGANIZA­
TION OFFERING YOU ALL ALTERNA­
TIVES TO AN UNWANTED PREG­
NANCY. FOR INFORMATION IN YOUR 
AREA CALL:
Call (215) 449-2006
AMERICAN FAMILY 
PLANNING
A Medical Service to Help You
RESEARCH
THOUSANDS OF TOPICS*2.75 per page
Send for your up-to-date. 160-page, mail or­der catalog. Enclose ‘1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD.. SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES. CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474or 477 5493 Our research material is sow tor ______ research assistance only._______
continued from page 1
Bank, and the Common Fund. Although 
there are constant re-evaluations of how 
best to invest our money, usually about 
half of the endowment fund is invested in 
bonds, with the other half invested in 100 
stocks.
The University also invests between 
$4,000,000 and $8,000,000 of working 
capital in short-term loans. The money is 
tied up for extremely short periods of time 
(5 to 270 days), and the interest rate is 
very high (usually upwards of ten percent), 
so this would seem like an excellent invest­
ment. This system also has its drawbacks, 
though, as the Penn Central loan demon­
strates. Late in 1969, C-MU invested nearly 
$1,000,000 in short-term paper from the 
Penn Central Transportation Division. The 
railroad was experiencing difficulties then, 
but Penn Central itself, with subsidiaries 
active in Real Estate and other areas, was 
seemingly still a very profitable operation. 
The investment was due to be paid on 
:!fcfie 21, 1970. On June 20, Penn Central 
filed for bankruptcy.
Luster comments: “There are a number 
of reasons we invested in Penn Central. 
First of all, it was rated as prime paper, 
meaning it was considered a good invest­
ment. Second, it had an excellent rate of 
return (10%). And at the time, nobody 
could foresee the financial trouble they 
would have. The information being made 
public was favorable ...” And although 
Penn Central’s Transportation branch was 
having problems, ‘ in general, railroads have 
been having trouble for fifty years, but 
since, like utilities, railroads are a regulated 
industry, they’re generally considered a 
sound investment.”
“And it wasn’t only C-MU that lost 
money,” Luster adds. “$80,000,000 was 
tied up in that issue of paper. A number of
Photo by Elliot Popowitz
major corporations and other universities 
lost money.” American Express Company, 
for example, lost $5,000,000. Penn Central 
offered those who lost money 20% of their 
investments, but C-MU is holding out for a 
larger amount. The university has also filed 
suit against a broker, charging that he knew 
at the time that Penn Central was in 
trouble, but withheld the information.
Despite such setbacks, and despite the
1.6% return last year, C-MU’s financial 
planners aren’t worried. The long term goal 
of 10% to 12% is being attained; 11% and 
26% returns in preceding years offset last 
year’s disappointment.
As for next year, Luster said, “We’re 
constantly looking at policy, trying to 
determine what percentage of our money 
to put into bonds or stocks, and at which 
industries, and which companies within 
those industries would make the best 
investments. Next year we’ll try for the 
long-term objective, but you can never be 
sure of what you’ll get.”
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
An evening with
NORMAN
MAILER
HEINZ HALL
Sunday, Oct. 21 at 7:30
The controversial prize winntng journalist, mayoral candidate 
(New York City) in 1969, and the author of Marilyn, a “novel 
biography" of Marilyn Monroe
Tickets: *5", *4", *3"
at the Heinz Hall Box Office. Gimbels. Horne’s, Kaufmann s and 
the Pitt Student Union
10% discount to students and senior citizens with ID s at the 
Box Office
Discounts to groups of 20 or more. Phone 281-8185 for more 
information. •
I HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973— Page^7
Men Given Credit for Phys. Ed.
by Debbie Siegel
This year for the first time at CMU, 
male students may take physical education 
courses and receive elective credit up to a 
twelve unit maximum covering two semes­
ters. The object of offering elective credit 
is to increase the quality of the physical 
education program and provide students 
with' a chance to improve in an activity 
that will be of value in later life.
Historically, the structure of the physi­
cal education program has undergone many 
changes. In the earliest days of Carnegie 
Tech, there was a 4 semester requirement 
for physical education with no credit, and 
then it was reduced to a two semester 
requirement. When the requirement was 
taken away, women were allowed to take a 
200 or 201 series of three units per semes­
ter and this could not exceed two semes­
ters. Men never has the option to take 
physical education for credit. Possible reas­
ons for women receiving the credit was to 
encourage women in the education field to 
acquire basic skills in physical education 
for the purpose of teaching elementary 
children.
Due to students’ request for credit, the 
option is now available to men. Mr. 
Haynes, head of the athletic department, 
has explained what the athletic program 
consists of. There are three basic areas con­
sisting of physical education classes which 
provide instruction, intramurals that take 
the learned skills and practice them on a 
more advanced level, and inter-collegiate 
sports. In physical education, sports re­
ferred to as “life-time” sports have in­
creased in enrollment. These are the kind 
of sports that one can do regardless of age, 
and can practice by oneself. Sports of this 
nature include swimming, golf, tennis, 
fencing and handball. The other division of 
sports includes team sports such as basket­
ball and volleyball. Mr. Haynes reports that 
the popularity of sports are always chang­
ing, but he described the sports presently 
most popular. In “life-time” sports for 
men, weight training, and tennis are most 
popular. For women in “life-time” sports, 
tennis and fencing are most popular. Swim­
ming is most frequently chosen by men 
and women. The most popular team sports 
for men and women are basketball, and 
volleyball, respectively.
Grades for physical education courses 
are based on the pass fail system. Mr. 
Haynes emphasized the importance of bas­
ing the evaluation of a student on the de­
gree to which he improves his skill.
All members of the university are en­
couraged to become involved with the 
physical education program independently. 
If an individual desires to join a class and 
cannot attend regularly, supplementary in­
struction can be arranged.
Mr. Haynes sees the greatest problem in 
the physical education program as the 
shortage of staff, particularly for women. 
Presently, Ms. Jane Fisk is the only mem­
ber of the faculty for the women’s athletic 
program.
Three years ago, one of the women re­
tired and two years ago, the other faculty 
member left to complete her doctorate at
Springfield. These women were never re­
placed and the shortage of female staff 
necessitates many co-ed activities.
Mr. Haynes noted other disadvantages 
arising from this shortage. When drama pre­
viously offered the dance option, the 
physical education program stopped giving 
courses of that nature. Since the dance 
option is no longer available, the physical 
education department would be the natural 
department to offer dance, but it does not 
have the appropriate faculty.
"Everybody should be interested 
...we’re trying to gear the pro­
gram so that the student has 
something to take with him. ”
There are five male instructors for ath­
letics who also double as coaches and cross 
teach a variety of courses.
New faculty will be hired when enroll­
ment reaches a peak, but faculty-student 
contact hours are not calculated in the 
phys.ed. department the way the faculty- 
student ratios of other departments are.
Mr. Haynes emphasized that an increase 
in the students taking electives may lead to 
the hiring of new faculty.
In regard to the adequacy of physical 
education facilities, Mr. Haynes feels that 
present indooi facilities are adequate, but 
there is a need for better outdoor facilities 
such as astro-turf. The possibility of install­
ing this synthetic turf was once considered
because it would enable use of the field all 
day and all year round. Mr. Haynes esti­
mates the cost of this turf at a quarter of a 
million dollars. He feels that it would more 
than pay for itself in the amount it would 
be used.
Responding to the question of whether 
physical education could ever become a 
major at CMU, Mr. Haynes said, “Before 
physical education could become a major, 
it must be recognized as a department in 
one of the colleges, which would probably 
be H&SS. Personally, I’d like to see it some 
day. Right now we’re a service department 
for all the university.”
A mailing was sent this past year to the 
freshman class introducing them to the 
physical education program. This, he al­
leges, has helped increase enrollment. An­
other new concept will be utilized for be­
ginning skiers. Jane Fisk is planning to 
drive students to Boyce Park, which uses 
artificial snow. Also, tentative ideas for in­
creasing the intercollege competition for 
women are being considered. The general 
philosophy of the physical education is, 
according to Mr. Haynes, that “Everybody 
should be interested in what we do to 
present a good image for the university. 
We’re trying to gear the program so that 
the student has something to take with 
him.”
It is the choice of individual colleges to 
count or not to count these courses for 
elective credit. It is advised that students 
check with their respective colleges as to 
whether credit will be counted towards 
graduation.
Forbes Expansion 
Sanctioned by C-MU
continued from page 1
agreed to allow a new shelter to be erected 
on the Warner Hall side. “We’d prefer to 
leave the present shelter where it is and put 
a new one on the other side ... All they’ve 
got to do is tell us it’s okay and we can 
erect one across the street,” he said. Harry 
Rowell, C-MU Director of Operations, said 
PAT contacted him a year ago to ask if the 
school would be interested in getting a 
shelter in case PAT decided to proceed 
with a city-wide shelter program. Rowell 
claims he has not heard from PAT since. 
He promises to agree to grant permission, 
provided C-MU has the right to tear the 
shelters down and replace them if they 
looked bad.
Rowell described the PAT shelters as 
“overgrown telephone booths.” Bond, who 
said the shelters cost $3200 apiece, says 
they have smoky plexiglass walls, white 
domed roof, bronze and aluminum frames, 
and benches inside.
C-MU Donated Land
C-MU is donating the land along Forbes 
for the expansion. Rowell commented, 
“We are not giving anything away. In fact 
we are gaining . . . [The plan] provides 
better protection for our people using 
public transportation, creates a clean 
intersection and eliminates a bottle neck.”
The original plan was to extend the road 
up to the wall of the ATO patio. Opera­
tions at C-MU expressed such opposition 
that the plan was altered. However, the
road will still eat up nearly 10 feet on the 
Forbes side and 15 feet on the Morewood 
side of the fraternity land. The members 
and president of ATO first learned of the 
plan when they noticed surveyor’s marks 
on the walls and trees of their property. 
George Kane, president of ATO, expressed 
the fraternity’s dissatisfaction with the 
plan; he says they were not informed of it 
until plans were finalized, and complains 
that they will be confronted with more 
traffic, noise and dirt.
The land of the other fraternities along 
Forbes will not be as severely affected as 
that of ATO because the roadway 
gradually tapers back to the existing 
sidewalk.
The road construction itself is paid for 
by a combination of governments. Mr. 
James Balzer, City Traffic Engineer, states 
that the project will receive 50% of its 
funds through a federal program, TOPICS, 
Traffic Operations to Improve Capacity 
and Safety. The state will fund 33% and 
the city the remaining 17%.
Mrs. Billie Bramhall, Deputy Director of 
Community Planning for the City of Pitts­
burgh, commented, “little money has been 
made available in the past for anything but 
big programs. We heard that the money 
was available for improving safety. We 
thought to take advantage of this offer, 
designed for small improvements on key 
streets that would have a maximum effect 
for a majority of people.” Forbes was 
chosen by community planners with final
plans agreed upon by the university and 
the neighboring community.
The project is scheduled for completion 
next spring. The roadway will be returned
to a travelable and safe surface without 
barriers during the winter, according to Mr. 
Balzer.
COMPUTERIZED 
DATING
FOt FREE MOCHUKE ON DATAMATtC
COMPUTERIZED DATING. P. O. BOX 7421
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. OAKLAND STATIOF
FOR FREE RROCHURE, PITTSBURGH, PA.
WRITS 1»IJ
i
Road construction already begun on Forbes Avenue 
will sever twenty-five feet of fraternity property.
m v. =s —
r. -
Photo by Frank Stein

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9, 1973
Security Morale Low
by Steven Correll
After all the fuss over parking. Chief of 
Security Ron Taylor doesn’t need any 
more problems. But, according to several of 
his officers, he has one.
“Morale around here is so low you 
couldn't stick the cover of that notebook 
underneath it,” one officer told a reporter. 
While it is hard to determine whether that
Personal Interpretation
statement is true for the entire security 
force, four men (out of twenty) and several 
student aids have complained directly to 
the TARTAN.
The complaints center on the si/e of the 
force (Taylor has cut tiic roster by half in 
the three years he has administered Securi­
ty) and the mandatory medical training 
that the officers attend in McKeesport. The 
officers claim that Taylor’s sending four 
people at a time to the training forces the 
remaining officers to work unreasonable 
long hours and leaves the campus danger­
ously underpatrolled at night.
One officer reportedly worked 1 1 con­
secutive days, had one day off, and return­
ed to work the next day. Several others 
have apparently worked 10 days straight.
The officers interviewed explain that 
the lack of manpower has forced Security 
to assign only 3 people to some night 
shifts. One must remain at the Baker Hall 
office to answer the telephone. An am­
bulance call that involves handling a 
stretcher requires two men, so that con­
ceivably the campus could be left unguard­
ed.
Taylor explains that unless the patient 
needs immediate attention, he sends his 
officers in separate vehicles so that the 
campus remains covered. First, one officer 
drives to the scene of an accident to offer 
help while another heads toward Baker 
Hall to fetch the new ambulance. Then, 
unless an attendant is needed in the am­
bulance. each has a vehicle and can move 
independently of the other.
But the new ambulance was purchased 
specifically to deal with accidents that re­
quire a medical attendant.
The officers who object to the special 
training program say that Security should 
send personnel to the Pittsburgh Police 
Academy instead (leaving them available 
for occasional campus duty if the need 
arises); they assert that elaborate training is 
not important because Shadyside hospital 
is only a few minutes from campus.
But Taylor stresses that the new am­
bulance and the training needed to use it 
properly are more sophisticated than the 
equipment and training used by the Pitts­
burgh Police. “It makes an important dif­
ference to the handful of people whose 
lives could not be saved by conventional 
techniques,” he says.
The question of guns
The officers listed several other com­
plaints. Several feel their effectiveness is 
reduced because they do not carry guns. 
They cite an MDC poll taken last year that 
showed students favor arming Security. 
They also point to the University of Pitts­
burgh force, which carries guns.
Taylor explains that the question of
The Lone Vehicle 
Security -understaffedPhoto by Ed Levine
guns remains open but that he has gradual­
ly phased out the carrying of weopons by 
not issuing them to new officers when they 
join the force. He questions the validity of 
the MDC poll, alleging that it sampled a 
relatively small number of students and 
included few blacks.
Several armed robberies took place the 
year before last, and the officers feel 
they’ve been lucky to avoid injury in con­
frontations. “We’ve been walking between 
the raindrops,” said one.
The officers also aired a number of 
lesser gripes. They feel the blazers Taylor 
required them to wear aren’t professional; 
one told of an incident in which the Baker 
Hall desk got a call complaining of a sus­
picious person tampering with parking 
meters. On investigation, the suspicious 
person turned out to be a security officer. 
The officers also said Taylor has harrassed 
some of his staff over trivial matters like 
the quality of their shoeshines. And a 
grievance over alleged uneven allocation of 
overtime is pending before the officers’ 
union. (Taylor says it is likely that he will 
admit fault in the overtime dispute and 
agree to give the complainants compen­
sation.)
“Just for payday”?
Is morale indeed low ? Taylor says 
some officers are satisfied while others are 
not. “I have some morale problems--to an 
extent I am a cause of them. . .” But he 
said low morale is not impairing the cam­
pus’ safety: “We are doing a better job here 
than what is often done elsewhere with 
larger numbers of men. . .I’m not naive 
enough to think there’s a one to one re­
lationship between crimes prevented and 
officers on duty.”
Taylor says, “I think the men in this 
office, due to budgetary considerations and 
to our own priorities, are asked to do and 
be responsible for more decision making 
and territory than any other force in the 
city of Pittsburgh. . .”
One of the officers said. “You can’t 
walk around in a bum mood all day and 
still help people. It used to be we’d do 
extra things just to help people out, and 
never even report doing them. . .now we 
just work for payday.”
Problems, Anyone?
by Dave Bush
You have four objects, no two of which 
weigh the same. The only way to tell them 
apart is with a beam balance that will work 
properly only if two objects are placed in 
one pan, and one object in the other pan 
Assuming it is possible, how many 
weighings are necessary to rank the objects 
inordei^o^jncreasini^
Good Samaritan 
Syndrome
Why will a complete stranger come to 
the aid of another? It’s not a matter of his 
own personality or constant willingness to 
help so much as surrounding circum­
stances. The October SCIENCE DIGEST 
reports that the “Good Samaritan Syn­
drome,” according to psychiatrists, 
depends on a number of variables. The sex 
of a bystander, whether or not he or she is 
part of a crowd or in a hurry-may 
determine if a helping hand will be offered. 
Outside of these factors, one thing 
remains constant; anyone who asks for 
help usually will get it.
TYPING
FAST ¦ REKONMLE • EFFICIENT
TEMI PIPENS-TKSES-ilSSINTITIdNS 
PUNCTUATION, SPELLING, fifUWMfl 
CfMECTEB
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
Electric Typewriters used exclusively
PHOTO COPIES MADE
Dear Akadama MamaMama’sLove Potions
Dear Akadama Mama:
Have you any interest in Women's Lib?
President, Showgirls’ Lib, 
Las Vegas
Dear Ms. President:
I’m more interested in Mama’s 
Lib and Mama feels if you do right 
by your Daddy, he’ll do right by you. 
Now my Daddy, I treat him right. 
When he comes dragging home at 
night I fluff up his ego. Slip off his 
shoes. Hand him his pipe. And head 
for the Akadama wine. Forget those 
tooty-fruity wines. They’re for boys, 
not for my Old Man. So I get out my 
Akadama recipe card and mix him 
one of my love potions. You’d be sur­
prised how fine a Saturday can be 
when you start it off with Akadama 
Red and orange juice. And the sec­
ond best way I know to end the day 
is with Akadama Red and cham­
pagne. So if you want my advice, Ms.
Imported by Suntory International, Los Angeles, California
President, just keep passing that 
Akadama. Take it from Mama. 
FAME & FORTUNATE.
Lately a lot of Akadama fans 
have been sending me their favorite 
recipes. Fortunately there’s enough 
roomleft in this week’s column to 
pass some of them on 
to you.
Akadama Red and bitter lemon tonic.
Akadama Red with 
apple juice.
Akadama Red with ginger ale.
Akadama Red and tonic water.
Akadama Red with cream soda.
Akadama Red and lemonade.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9, 1973-Page 9
Frat Rush
C-MU houses 12 fraternities and five 
sororities. (There hasn’t been much 
optimism in the Greek system for quite 
some time.) On October 29, 1973 Pledge 
Night will occur, an event which freshmen 
and brothers of each house look forward 
to. Rush chairmen, brothers and freshmen 
appear optimistic, and preparation has 
been extensive.
Under ruling by the Council of Fra­
ternity Presidents (CFP), the fraternities 
were encouraged to conduct a rush this 
past summer. As long as form letters 
weren’t used, each house was allowed to 
use its own methods for rushing. SAE’s 
rush chairman reports that he received the 
list of all freshman males from Warner Hall, 
and divided the group into geographic 
locations. Each brother was given a list of 
freshmen in his area whom he was ex­
pected to contact. These contacts were 
concerned with informing the person about 
C-MU, the freshman experience, and about 
the fraternal system. Several freshmen con­
tacted “their” brothers with questions 
about everything from classes to social life. 
Alan Koblin felt that his housi was doing 
the incoming freshmen “a service”.
Though not all houses conducted a 
summer rush, those houses that did found 
some reward in it. In contacting the new­
comers* KS, as one example, gave relevant 
C-MU information, and then pushed the 
fraternal system. SN supported the system 
stating that “fraternity living is an alterna­
tive”, but that their union was “a brother­
hood, not a house”. Some DTD members 
even tried to meet with the boys and their
by Gary Bronheimparents. PIKA attempted a get-together of 
D.C. area brothers and freshmen. D.C. 
alumni took care of the summer rush for 
them.
The Freshmen Arrive
' Once the freshmen arrived, they seemed 
to visit the houses during rush events 
“taking it more seriously”, and being 
“more open-minded” to the fraternal 
system. The class of ’78 seems to many 
brothers to be more willing to go over and 
talk to the brothers about fraternities, and 
rather than “just being interested in 
freebies”. The turnout at some events was 
so large tha there wasn’t enough food, or 
room to dance.
One reason given for the greater interest 
in fraternities is the financial aspect. With 
the present state of American economics 
and $600 increases in food and housing 
expected, freshmen find the fraternities a 
less expensive alternative. This year fresh­
men who pledge will be allowed to move 
into the house second semester, with the 
permission of housing.
How many freshmen will pledge? No 
one knows now, but most houses expect a 
strong pledge class. For sojne houses, in­
sufficient pledges could mean serious 
problems. As it is, most fraternities are 
short in numbers (but still optimistic). DU 
expects to double in size. They don’t have 
many members but they have a “fraternity 
to offer”. “We are small in numbers, big in 
ideas,” said one member. The DU members 
also made an arrangement with housing 
which resulted in rebuilding the upper two 
floors of their house. They feel that their
Phi Kappa Theta signs in freshmen at Rush dinner.Photo by Bruce Edelston
house is different. Comment has been 
made, however, that because work still 
needs to be done on the facilities some 
freshmen will be “turned off’.
BSP, or rather the new improved Pi 
Lambda Rhi, is also in great need of new 
members, and they are going about rush in 
their own quiet way. On the whole, most 
houses are being visited by a substantial 
number of freshmen.
Fraternities Use a Variety of Approaches
As always, each house is going about 
. rush in a different way. Some houses have 
already given out bids, some not. Some 
send blanket invitations to freshmen in a 
haphazard manner. One house has its 
members of the football team rush football 
players, and the same with the rest of the 
sports. One has its members invite the con­
tacts they made in summer rush.
There are also varying housing policies. 
Because of the costs of empty rooms, some 
houses have boarders. BSR has 11, Theta
Xi houses 9 freshmen and two girls, DTD is 
letting three grad students live there. 
However, the PIKA’s just want PIKA’s 
living in their house, and they don’t have 
social members. According to one brother 
“a social member is no member at all”, a 
fraternity is a fraternity all of the time, not 
just when someone wants a beer.
With all of the positive aspects of the 
1973 fall rush, one major concern is the 
rules of UFO (United Fraternal Organiza­
tion). Each house mentioned that other 
houses were paying little attention to the 
rules of rush, that the rules were “unen­
forceable”. It was stated that the weekend 
rule was “pointless; the freshmen should 
see us in our natural habitat”. Said one frat 
member, UFO is “stiff and regimented”, 
“worthless”, and another felt that UFO 
“hurt frat rush”. Some even desired a 
formal pledge night after two weeks of 
rush, commenting that freshmen get turned 
off at having to wait two months. Several 
freshmen said they are more than ready to 
pledge now. ____________________feieo/e
Directory
Student Organizations 
CMU Services 
Sport 
Banks
Entertainment
Art
Music
Theatre
Godspell
Points of Interest 
Recreation 
Sports 
Hotels 
Restaurants 
Services 
Phone 
Travel
Apartment Renting 
Campus Ministry 
Shopping 
Part Time jobs
A Comprehensive 
Guide to Pittsburgh 
and C-MU
Fifty percent discount with presentation of 
this discount coupon150releo/e
wXOE-c/o*
D2owX

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973
Food Service
continued from page 1
With the departure of the three staff 
members, Skibo has lost its experienced 
management. (Ms. Cohen has hired two 
other MMCC graduates to help her in 
Skibo. The position of dietician will remain 
empty, with Ms. Cohen performing the job 
herself.)
And of course food shortages are a con­
stant problem. Beef is expensive or not 
available at all. Potatoes are expensive, and 
anything using soybeans is scarce.
Ms. Cohen has good news for Morewood 
residents, though. Although Food Service 
considered closing the cafeteria, which con­
tinues to give seconds, as an economy 
move last year, she says, “I’d like to see 
Morewood remain open; it is an interesting 
type of atmosphere and service.'3 Closing 
remains a possibiliiy however1.
even irate 
gorillas 
can call
Rita Cohen, Director of Food Services.
Photo by John Rose
“Concentration Camp Syndrome” may plague some Pew’s for years after their 
release. This manifests itself, reports the October SCIENCE DIGESI, in the pre­
mature aging ot the men; a higher than average suicide rate; violent death and 
family adjustment problems. Anticipating these dilemmas, government psychologists 
have designed a repatriation program to ease the POWs return to society and 
minimize their psychological difficulties.
m
iT
CH
busy signal 
Sunday 8’-30 
WRCT
Letters:
continued from page 2
capable of coping with the complex prob­
lems of leadership. And creating leaders is 
what college is all about.
We cannot crawl into a hole and only 
look at one thing. We must broaden our 
perspectives, and the language requirement 
is a means to accomplish this. We only wish 
that the TARTAN would refrain from 
stooping to print such incoherent drivel.
John A. Ferrante 
Patricia C Miller 
Amos H. Sat ter lee
To whom it may concern;
The Delta Gammas found the piece of 
our shield plaque which you broke off and 
left on one of the fraternity lawns.
I can’t understand why you would want 
to destroy something that belongs to us. It 
couldn’t have had any value to you, while 
to us it meant a great deal. It was a gift 
made for us by a new sister.
I don’t think that our sisterhood is 
affecting your life in any way, that you 
should want to hurt us. What perhaps you 
fail to realize is that destroying any piece 
of our property destroys none of our sister­
hood.
I can only feel sorry that you would feel 
the childish need to strike out against a 
group which exists by and for the one 
thing we all need most - love.
Carol Zacher 
President
Beta Nu Chapter of Delta Gamma
Would 
you 
Hire 
you?
Of course you would.
You work hard. And you’re good 
at it. Like most Americans. 
But, if all of us did just a 
little better, we’d wind 
up with better products, better 
services and even more 
pride in the work we do.
America. It only works as well as we do.
TIRED OF THE SAME OLD CRAP?
EAT BETTER CRAP AT
Dough Made Fresh Daily
WE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621 6755

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday. October 9, 1973—Page 11
enleiainmeit
by Doug Stone
There are several films scheduled for 
release between now and Christmas that 
are worth mentioning. Foremost among 
those coming up in the very near future is 
Fantasia, the perennial Disney favorite. 
Fantasia (if there is anyone who hasn’t 
seen it yet) blends classical music with 
visual imagery in the form of cartoon. At 
the time of its First playing, Fantasia was 
an experiment in the Field of animation. 
The fact that it is still popular after 30 
years suggests that the experiment was a 
success. Anyone who has not yet seen 
Fantasia should seriously consider spending 
an evening at the Guild to watch it.
A movie called This is Cinerama may 
open at the Warner soon. Cinerama was 
another experiment, one that ultimately 
failed. This is Cinerama is essentially a 
demonstration of what can be done when 
three cameras are used instead of one. 
There is little else to the movie. The 
Cinerama process was eventually replaced 
by very wide Cinemascope, as Cinemascope 
proved equally good and less expensive.
Several new movies are slated to come 
out. Charlie Varrick with Walter Matthau 
had a fairly suspenseful second half. The 
First half was slow and took a long time to 
set up. It tells the story of a group of bank 
robbers who set out to do a quiet little 
bank job, but ended up hitting a bank that 
held MaFia money. The problems start 
when the underworld Finds it has been 
robbed.
Cops and Robbers with Joseph Bologna 
and Cliff Gorman is amusing but certainly 
not great entertainment. The plot concerns 
two cops who decide that their pay is not 
i sufficient, and decide to do a little shady 
work on the side. The acting is adequate, 
but the story is not strong enough to make 
a good movie.
There are three other noteworthy films 
to watch out for. The Sugarland Express 
with Goldie Hawn and Ben Johnson is at 
First funny but later extremely disturbing 
as the film comes to its end. The final 
scene is obviously halfway through the 
movie, but as you watch, you keep trying 
to figure out ways that the movie could 
Finish differently.
The Sting is the new Paul Newman and 
Robert Redford movie. Redford evidently 
was quoted as saying that it was one of his 
worst Films. I have a more optimistic view. 
The Sting is good entertainment with a 
surprise ending. The story concerns two 
con men (Redford and Newman naturally) 
running a con on an Irish racketeer (Robert 
Shaw). Newman and Redford never 
approach the rapport they achieved in 
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid 
however, the script carries them through to 
a reasonable result. The Sting is not great, 
but it is good, and worth seeing.
Finally there is Paper Chase, starring 
Timothy Bottoms. Bottoms portrays a First 
year Harvard law student trying to make 
his way through the pressure of law school. 
Bottoms and several other young actors 
carry the show through to a very sensitive 
depiction of life in college. Paper Chase is 
perhaps the best Film up for release in the 
next few months. At any rate it should be 
a hit with law students.
Any given moment at the People Show last Thursday in Skibo Ballroom.
Photo by Ellen Eddy
The People Shew
by Jay Cohen
A long groan went up when the word 
went out to form a single line. The closest - 
we could get to a line was four abreast, yet 
almost 200 C-MU students (my humble 
estimation) filed reverently into the Skibo 
Ballroom wondering what could get them 
out of their bottles on such a dreary night. 
Free, baby, that’s what. And as I perceived 
my First perception of what the People’s 
Show was going to be like, I was en­
trenched in the adage, “YOU DON’T GET
ANYTHING FOR FREE, BABY.”
All the lights were off and down the 
middle of the room was a line of seven 
candles, each in a mound of dirt with a 
crude, wooden cross behind. “Oh Christ,” I 
said, “Not another trinity thing.” A man 
draped in a black cloak slowly and 
agonizingly put out the candles. He did it 
so painstakingly (and painfully to me) that 
I formed the impression that his action had 
some deep-rooted meaning. Later I found 
this to be wrong.
Next was a scene of equal obscurity, but 
it was a jim-dandy. Wow, did they get their
Miscellany
Maybe you know that the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse may close. It is more than likely 
you don’t care. Most people in Pittsburgh 
have never seen a live play ever in their 
entire lives, and of those people, most 
never will. The fact is that the majority of 
people here couldn’t care less about the 
theatre, and I don’t imagine they can be 
blamed. The theatre situation in this 
metropolis is pathetic; there is really 
nothing around particularly enticing to the 
average adult mind, let alone to whet the 
fledgling apetite of a yet uncultered kid. 
Nothing will come of nothing, as some 
playwright once wrote.
But wait, there’s a department right 
here in Carnegie-Mellon called the Drama 
Department where they’re training actors 
for the theatre. And it’s the best university 
Drama Department in the country, by 
God, as any knowledgable critic or 
theatre-person will tell you. And its alumni 
are always winning awards and having their 
names up in lights and are otherwise 
amongst the most respected performers in 
the world. And every year a lucky few 
more dramats are given degrees and sent 
out into the cold to do their stuff. Some go 
to grad schools to earn some more 
credentials; maybe they stay here or go to 
Yale to get that Bob Brustein Spic-and- 
Span. Some go into repertory wherever 
they can, or go out to the coast, or hang 
around some Civic Light Opera Company 
for a while, or even do local T.V. They all 
starve just about as much as the lesser- 
trained dramats from other universities, 
and the really ballsy ones go right off to 
Broadway for a taste of the neon, and are 
even willing to knock around New York 
off-Broadway, bouncing off the walls until 
something truly Fine pops up.
It would probably surprise even the 
most well-informed statistician as to how
many aspiring talents are wandering around 
New York waiting on tables and rooming 
with roaches. Nobody can say for sure 
exactly how many trained or untrained 
performers there are, Equity or non- 
Equity. Who can guess at how many give 
up after maybe three of four hopeless 
seasons staring at some lunch counter in 
between making the rounds? And it’s just 
as easy for an actor bred on Carnegie- 
Mellon drama department standards to be 
as unemployed as someone from Eastern 
Alabama Junior College department of 
drama, or as someone who took a few 
courses at Herbert Berghorfs studio or 
spent six Saturday’s in Stella Adler’s class. 
The principal of the thing is captivating in 
its unfairness, your perception of this 
unfairness depending upon your position in 
the matter. Certainly a Carnegie-Mellon 
trained actor is better qualiFied than some 
guy with a couple of AADA courses under 
his belt, yet shouldn’t they be given the 
same opportunity to audition for a role, 
and more obviously, supposing they had 
the same basic talent, wouldn’t that talent 
show through at an audition? Sure it 
should, that’s why there are such things as 
Open Calls ’, but what if a producer can’t 
spot that talent? Then they both still 
starve.
I’m writing all this after acknowledging 
a flaccid season both on and off-Broadway 
and all over the country. All this to 
perhaps invoke some patronage of theatre 
in Pittsburgh before it peters out com­
pletely. All this to make you realize the 
dedication of those crazy dramats you see 
camping around, or to make you contrast 
their futures to some terminal CMU man 
who after graduation will be plugged into 
some real-world computer. Perhaps you 
still won’t go down to the Playhouse once 
this year, or catch Butley at the Nixon, or 
bother to wait in line for a ticket to Three­
penny Opera here at CMU. There will 
always be those who’ll continue not to 
care. Only five percent of the population 
of the United States will ever see the inside 
of a theatre; but theatre won’t disappear, it 
will merely change. It just might be nice to 
have more than that Five percent made 
aware of that change. ~SNK-
rocks off! One of the male actors (there 
were four actors altogether) sat at a table, 
alternately aiming a gun at unknown 
victims and drenching himself in the food 
which was on the table. As we normally try 
our best to drop food into our mouths, he 
missed with such a fury that I was sure that 
here was something to bite into. It seemed 
obvious that his act was a protestation 
against violence. His spasms reached a 
climax when he splattered Heinz ketchup 
all over the table and trounced on two 
cartons of milk.
And so the show went on in a similar 
fashion—weird, baby. Perhaps twenty 
minutes had elapsed and not a single 
dramatic line had been delivered. As a 
matter of fact, not an intelligible word had 
been spoken. The closest resemblance to 
words was borne by the gurgling sounds of 
two actors in a scene which I thought for a 
moment was a commentary on the U.S. 
exploding the bomb on Hiroshima. But it 
wasn’t Hiroshima that got this bomb, it
was Skibo. A girl emerged from white cloth 
after a newsman announced the explosion 
on a taped radio program. I tried to en­
vision her as the child of warfare or 
something. I really did. But then a male 
actor forced her to eat flowers and they 
made noise which sounded like reverse 
peristalsis.
From that point on, the show decayed 
into indescribable inanity. The actors ran 
around the room, threw bags of dirt, and 
wrecked any breakable object in sight.
The People’s Show was not art, no 
matter how far you stretch the point. 
Either it had no meaning, in which case it 
was a purposeless and crass exhibition of 
buffoonery, or it was so obscure that you 
need a shovel just to dig up the meaning, in 
which case it was an exhibition of bad 
theatre. In any event, I just can’t believe 
that anyone could get up the stones to 
come froffi England to put on such crap. 
My only consolation is that the C-MU 
drama students weren’t gay about it either.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
When I was 14 Linus Pauling and his 
vitamin C pills were the thing that every 
hip young pseudo-intellectual like me and 
my triends were dropping. We were citric- 
aciding all over the place to keep from 
getting colds but as far as 1 remember it 
didn't work. Anyways one da\ me and my 
friend Kenney are walking down the street 
and we run into Barbara Roisman who had 
become what 1 considered very tough. 
Now. Barbara gives us the “Hey man 
what’s happening?" stuff first and then she 
says on the side, “You got any dope, any 
pills?” and Kenney loudly and proudly 
says “I've got some citric acid.” To which 
Barbara makes a quick turn and says “Hey 
man there’s cops over there you want us all 
to get thrown in the pen?” Then she leans 
over and says, “can you sell me two tabs?” 
Out of the goodness of his heart Kenney 
gave her the pills and I was told later that 
night Barbara was seen tripping her brains 
out on vitamin C.
This is what became of tough Barbara 
Roisman. But when 1 first met her we 
became real good friends. In fact Barbara 
was my introduction to the vending 
machine. We were in 7th grade and she 
decided it would be real cool for us to 
experiment with cigarettes. We got 
together 45 cents each (that was top 
vending machine price then) and we went 
to the bowling alley and we got from their 
machine a pack of Marlboro for each of us 
(that was the thing to smoke) we went 
back to Barbara's house and we went into 
the bathroom and stood in front of the 
mirror and tried to smoke. Barbara picked 
it up real easy although at one point when 
she was trying to light the cigarette she lit 
her hair instead, but I didn't like the way it 
smelled and I thought it looked stupid so 
that was the end of my 3 minute career as 
a smoker.
The next time I ran into a vending 
machine it was on the subway. 1 was taking 
one of my “I'm 13 and brave enough to be 
riding the subways at night alone” trips 
and I was standing and waiting for a train 
for a real long time, and 1 was looking at all 
these machines that sold ice cream and 
candy and lipstick and I decided to have 
some candy. I put my money in and that 
was the end of the money and there was no 
candy but because I'm so persistent I 
found another machine. This time when I 
put the money in and pulled the handle a 
huge rat came jumping out of the slot. I 
suppose the train finally came.
All this time passes and for some reason 
I have very little encounter with the 
vending machine until I come to college 
and I find if. I want to do a laundry I have 
to talk to a vending machine about it.
There are vending machines all over 
campus for you to bury your money in. 
There are new ones in Baker Hall that will 
serve you an entire meal. They are on the 
first floor and they serve sandwiches and 
jello and pie and pudding and coffee, tea, 
milk, or oreo cookies, or candy bars, or 
gum or life savers, or potato chips and 
more I’m sure. In the machine where you 
can buy the sandwiches there is a little 
microwave oven next to it where you can 
heat them up (by the by, microwaves can 
make you sterile if you stand too close). As 
far as I know Baker Hall is the only place 
on campus with a meal machine. There are 
elaborate sets of vending machines on the 
second floor of Warner Hall, in the lobby 
of Morewood Gardens, in the basements of 
Donner and Hammerschlag Halls, and on 
the seventh floor of Science Hall. Also in 
the Skibo grill which makes no sense at all 
except for the cigarette machine, which 
makes no sense to me. In the Fine Arts 
Building in the basement there is only one 
vending machine with candy probably to 
remind all the starving artists that they are 
supposed to be starving artists (and of 
course to keep the dramats thin) and there 
is a soda machine on the second floor. Also 
there is a cigarette machine in the cafeteria 
part of Skibo. Fair warning: chocolate bars 
in a vending machine are usually too 
melted and there is usually not enough 
cream in the Oreo cookies. The soda 
usually isn’t too cold and the coffee is 
always too watery. The apple pie in the 
machine at Baker is real good (but it’s 30 
cents and it’s only a quarter at Skibo).
Really vending machines cause no harm 
except to fat people cause they can go 
sneaking off to a vending machine without 
having to answer to anyone, also to 
smokers who are trying to stop. The best 
thing I can figure about a vending machine 
is that it stops you from eating a lot. For 
30 cents I can have a bag of 25 Oreo 
cookies but for 15 cents out of the 
machine I can.only have 6. I am grateful to 
have my fat so well under control.
62 year old Emma Rosenberg, since 
1949, has donated 10 gallons of blood to 
the Sacramento Blood Bank. That is more 
than any other woman in that city.
EVENTS:
RUGS
for
less
0 with your ID Card
$ 9x12s $15, S19, $29, $39
0 also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
\ Also wall tapestries, Indian ruqs
furry ruQ< an/i bedspreads. Low 0
price« oriental rugs in many sites.
'' ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
ruACE'C 5426 Wa,nut $N ickOt J Shadyside
10 a.m. . 8 p.m. Sat. 'til 5 ''
\ For directions call 421 - I02S
SKI OR TOUR FREE 
IN EUROPE
during your Christmas vacation!
For details call collect
nfliionflLEiuDtni obe r9,1
(215) 372-5968 (7 p.m. - 9 p.m.)(215)678-7439 (9 a.m. - 5 p.m.)
YIKC
The Pittsburgh Jewish Community Center 
at 315 S. Bellefield, in Oakland, presents 
the reknowned violinist Nathan Milstein 
tonight, Tuesday, October 9, at 8:15 p.m. 
This opens the 1973-74 season of concerts 
presented by the center, which will have 
such other notables as pianist Andre Watts. 
For information on subscriptions or 
tickets, call 521-8010.
Museum of Art 
Carnegie Institute 
4400 Forbes Ave. Shows through October:
Paintings by Girts Purins, the Foy 
Collection of European and Asian 
Ceramics, and Art in Residence; Privately 
owned art in the Pittsburgh Area.
WQED Highlights 
Tuesday, October 9, 8:00 p.m.—Playhouse 
New York presents the drama, Particular 
Men, starring Stacey Keach in the story of 
security leaks in the Manhattan Project. 
Wednesday, October 10, 11:00 p.m.— 
Marilyn by Norman Mailer will be dis­
cussed. There is bound to be some hot 
controversy about Mailer’s dealing with 
this American symbol’s life and tragic 
death by overdose.
Saturday, October 6, 6:00 p.m.—
Singer-jazzman Arthur Prysock is featured.
Concert
The Strawbs, those Edwardian dandies, 
bring their grave new whirl into Pitts­
burgh’s famous Carnegie-Schwartz 
University in the Skibo ballroom, October
11, at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are free with a 
C-MU ID, S2.00 without. I recommend the 
far-out structures in Skibo for anyone.
Norman, Norman, Norman
Mrs. Mailer’s son will speak at Heinz Hall 
on Sunday, October 21, at 7:30 p.m. 
Topics will include the author’s latest 
effort to win approval from Germaine 
Greer, Marilyn. Tickets are $3, $4, and $5, 
on sale at all the downtown department 
stores and Pitt Student Union. A 10% 
discount will be given to students and 
seniors with ID, on all tickets purchased at 
the box office.
Pittsburgh Ballet
The 1973-74 season opens with Cinderella, 
featuring Edward Villella at Heinz Hall, 
October 12, and 13, 8:00 p.m. and 
October 14, at 2:30.
Theatre
Pittsburgh’s only, the Nixon Theatre, 
presents Butley, starring Brian Bedford on 
Monday, October 15 through Saturday, 
October 20. For information call 
281-4877.
Civic Arena
Elton “Rocket Man” John appears in 
concert on Tuesday, October 9. Don’t 
forget your ear trumpets as Elton sings a 
song for you.
-jc-
THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH PRESENTS
Y 't
A CONCERT OFJflZZ
JAKI BYARD - KEYBOARD 
RON CARTER - BASS 
ELVIN JONES - PERCUSSION 
JAMES MOODY - REEDS 
CHARLES TOLLIVER - BRASS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1973 - 8:30 P.M. 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL - $4.00
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE Pin STUDENT UNION (SCHENLEY HALL) TICKET OFFICE
IN CONNECTION WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
THIRD ANNUAL SEMINAR OF JAZZ

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9, 1973-Page 13
coffins
by Craig Collins
I should not be writing this column. I 
have an economics test in eleven hours, 
seven of which will be spent sleeping, one 
of which will be spent in class, and so on. 
Cheap music finds its way into my hole. As 
you read this, my test will be over, and I 
have survived, and people still believe in 
evolution. The world still buys canned 
potato chips. Yesterday was the last day of 
the first part of your life. The list is 
endless.
And now on to the meat of the 
discussion. As the title suggests, I am going 
to deal with phenomena which are stranger 
than truth. These phenomena are called 
people. They live in a place called This 
Great Land Of Ours. They can be found 
anywhere, but seem to congregate in parti­
cular locations. One is a hot dog shop. It is 
in Pittsburgh. It boasts one pinball machine 
and three electronic ping-pong games. And 
in this restaurant, policemen stand 
around, observing, waiting, hoping there’s 
no trouble, daydreaming about the Iron 
City Beer in their refrigerators.
The Original Franks & Burgers, Beef & 
Brew, House of Beef (select one). Or 
simply, the Original.
It is questionable whether this restau­
rant is either original or a hot dog shop. It 
is a Place To Go. To drink and eat. Beer 
and french fries. Everything else is much 
too expensive, but that is not the point. 
One goes there for the adventure of 
meeting people. The Original is the pro­
verbial microcosm. A friend of mine once 
observed, “You want to watch the freak 
show, you become part of the freak show.” 
The truth is, all aspirin is not alike.
Situation No. 1: I am sitting, eating my 
fries and drinking my beer, having just 
finished a game of pinball. I am involved to 
some extent in a conversation with a 
bearded old man with long white hair and a 
black middle-aged man wearing a suit and 
loosened tie. It is late evening. The coyotes 
are howling up in the hills.
OLD MAN: I’ve been working on my trans­
lation of the Aeneid for the last three 
' years. I don’t know if I will be able to 
finish it though, because of my disease . . . 
MYSELF: You mean you’re doing your 
own translation of the entire Aeneid? 
From the Latin?
OLD MAN: Yes, that’s right.
MYSELF: How many of the books have 
you translated?
OLD MAN: I am just finishing the seventh. 
There are twelve books you know, and 
with my disease slowing me down ....
(There is some talk about Virgil, and I try 
to let him know what I know. He probably 
isn’t impressed. ' The conversation 
develops.)
BUSINESSMAN: But what good can come 
out of what you’re doing? How is your 
translation of what someone wrote 
hundreds of years ago going to improve the 
world? That won’t put a man on the moon
or make our economy grow.
OLD MAN: But, my friend, it is something 
I do.
MYSELF: You can’t measure everything in 
terms of economics. Art has a place in 
society which can’t be measured in 
dollars ....
BUSINESSMAN: I just don’t see it. You 
won’t make any money . . .
Later, a freak who had just consumed 
five downers comes in, sits down with us, 
and has me offer to buy him a beer. He 
gets into the conversation also, happily 
munching on my fries as well. Ah, well. I 
try to put myself in a fraternal state of 
mind. It works, a little. I buy more beer for 
all of us.
Situation No. 2: I am sitting, eating fries 
and drinking beer with friends. A tall mus­
cular well-dressed black has been walking 
from table to table and now is approaching 
ours. One of my companions (a reporter 
for this very newspaper) takes in the 
situation and takes over.
BLACK: How would one of you like to 
buy this beautiful ring? (Displays small 
Dox. Inside is a garish wedding band.)
ROB: Looks pretty nice. How much do 
you want for it?
BLACK: Thirty dollars.
ROB: Well, I might be interested in buying 
it, but I don’t have the money right now. 
It’s a really nice ring though.
BLACK: It’s solid 14-carat gold . . .
ROB: Well, where could I find you if I 
wanted to buy it? Will you be around here 
again tomorrow night?
BLACK: No, man, someone’ll probably 
buy it from me before then.
ROB: Fm sorry, but I don’t have the 
money right now. Maybe if you come 
around later...
BLACK: I gotta go now, we’ll see you .. .
We all laugh, with some guilt. “Do you 
think he knew we were jagging him?” I ask 
naively.
Situation No. 3: It is Sunday night, and 
a friend and I are, as usual, downing beer 
and fries. I elect to go to the bar and buy 
another pitcher. A man is standing at the 
bar, with coat unbuttoned and necktie 
loosened, drinking whiskey. I order the 
beer from the bartender as my friend looks 
on.
MYSELF: Large pitcher of Bud. Two 
mugs.
MAN: Hey, see that cop standing over 
there?
MYSELF: Yeah, I see him.
MAN: You know what he’s doing? He’s 
there because he’s protecting me. You 
know, if anything ever happened to me, it 
would kill my father, you know what I 
mean?
MYSELF: Yeah. Who is your father? (For 
reasons I am unsure of, I would rather not 
print the name of the famous jazz pianist 
whose son I found I was talking with. 
Doing so might tend to damage reputa­
tions, and could possibly lead to legal 
hassles. But I guarantee that you've heard 
of him.)
MAN: I’m X’s son.
MYSELF: Really? How is X?
iswew
s firing „i Paris
“FN MT* SUE, MTT MSS IT!” - CM NMS
EVERY WEDNF5D A Y & THURSDAY at 7:30 P 'A 
WALT HARPER 5 ATTIC! Market Sq.
Student Rush 7:25 P.M —$3-00 with 10
MAN: Oh, he’s fine. Do you know him? 
MYSELF: Oh, no, not personally. I
just . . .
MAN: You know, if something happened 
to me . . .
MYSELF: Do you play piano, too?
MAN: I’m playing out at the Holiday 
Inn . . .
MYSELF: How long you been playing 
piano?
MAN: For a long time. Listen, man . . . 
(X’s son staggers, almost falls onto a 
table . . . )
MAN: You gotta help me out, okay? (He 
grabs my shirt as he starts to fall again, 
almost taking down with him.)
MYSELF: Take it easy, man. You okay? 
MAN: Yeah, listen, you gotta help me a 
little . .
MYSELF: How?
MAN: How about giving me a couple of 
bucks so I get back home . ..
MYSELF: I . ..I don’t have any
change .... just spent it on beer.
MAN: How about fifty cents then? You 
have that don't you?
I gave X’s son fifty cents. Wondering if 
he really was his son. What’s the difference. 
The situation was inescapable. Escape from 
what? Escape from the freak show? Sorry, 
there’s no escape.
I didn’t include the previous dialogues 
merely to fill space. What with the news­
print, mayonnaise, beef, and match 
shortages, one cannot afford to waste 
precious space. Rather, they seem to point 
out the overriding atmosphere of the 
Original, that of a patent medicine show. 
One becomes preoccupied, not with the 
conversations themselves, but with 
evaluating the content of the words. It 
becomes a game, with one party speaking 
and the other discerning his words as truth, 
bullshit, or outright lies. Communication is 
possible here only when both players are 
on the same level of credibility. In 
situation No. 1, the old man really gave me 
no reason to doubt his story (except for his 
melodramatic references to his mysterious 
disease), and thus I took the old man’s 
words as between bullshit and truth. 
Stranger than truth. On the opposing side 
of the conversation, I found it hard to
believe that the businessman was really 
sincere in his stand. He seemed to be 
arguing for the sake of debate (and thus 
must have considered his position non-
objectionable, at least); for that reason, I 
rated his statements half bullshit and half 
fantasy. The overall effect was that of a 
farce, one which was not mutually recog­
nised. Therefore, communication with 
words was impaired. Have I lost you? My 
involvement in the conversation is left as 
an exercise to the interested student.
The second situation used more direct 
communication in the game of “Who’s 
Kidding Who?” The guy trying to unload 
the ring presented an essentially straight­
forward front, laced with bullshit to 
protect himself and to sell the ring. We 
responded with pure and recognisable bull, 
feigning interest in his wares. The man, 
being attuned to his own fabrications, 
sensed ours, and got the message. He left 
after seeing the farce, because one doesn’t 
stay too long in one place when selling hot 
jewelry.
I singled out the Original for this article 
because it is the best Twilight Zone of 
credibility this side of the White House. 
There are communications games in Skibo 
and aboard PAT buses as well, but they are 
sterile little trivialities in comparison. Buses 
place people in static passenger roles, 
where communication lies in stealing 
glances at the other riders, and looking 
away when they turn toward you. The 
Original, however, is dynamic. Involvement 
is crucial, lest the entire atmosphere be 
dissipated. In that respect, the freak show 
at the county fair or circus is just the same: 
there is no show without the customers, 
and thus the customers are part of the 
show.
I am finally through. Take this news­
paper with you and read the rest of it on 
the bus. If you are still shocked to have 
seen the word ‘bullshit’ in print, just send 
the paper along to Mom and Dad, so they 
can threaten the University to clean things 
up a bit. After all, who’s paying?
¦jmiWSj.
'.OOOOIC TftlXT * ,
<---«0-2
OBSERVE. TMIS TO'« aUkV-Dll>Jti.
« w«u. SH D\SArP£A*
8^ * MA«tC INCANTATION T
IP YOU DOMT DO OJMAT / OCC*EE, 
YOU u/tLC GCT
CASH A**.JS—

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1973
by Rie Werme
Moses Still on Sidelines
Tartan Errors 
Lead to 
Bison Stampede
Quarterback Jay Duquette caught behind scrimmage. Photo by Ric Werme
The first three quarters displayed a 
cycle where the Tartans got the ball, 
moved it For at least one first down, and 
then gave it up via fumble or interception. 
They didn’t even get within field goal range 
of Bethany's goal until the fourth quarter 
when the Tartans put together a beautiful 
92 yard drive and scored. It was, of course, 
too late. Bethany played a consistently 
good game, hitting hard, executing many 
plays flawlessly and capitalizing on nearly 
every mistake the Tartans made. The 
Tartan defense was usually strong, 
especially on the line; but the few plays 
that the Bisons did get past our line were 
the big plays that counted for their first 
downs and TD’s. Bethany QB Rick
The Tartans weren’t outplayed as such; 
rather they defeated themselves with 
fumbles, interceptions and penalties which 
consistently made them give up the ball. 
They persuasively showed in the fourth 
quarter and during scattered moments of 
the first three quarters, that they could 
move the ball effectively. Six fumbles, two 
of which were recovered by the Bisons, and 
four interceptions, simply killed any drive 
that had been developing.
The Tartans are now 1-1. Their next 
game is against Allegheny, a tough 
opponent. It is a home game and no one 
doubts that we can beat Allegheny if we 
play a good game, and if a big crowd turns 
out.
While Peter Moses is still ineligible to 
compete in President’s Athletic Conference 
matches, he will see action when the 
Tartans take on the University of 
Pittsburgh next week. Meanwhile, there are 
new developments in the question of his 
conference status.
Moses’ soccer coach, Steve Fagan, says 
Moses was playing for an amateur team, 
rather than a professional one as was 
reported earlier. He also says that Moses 
was unaware of the PAC rule stating that a
student cannot compete on an athletic 
team outside of his school while classes are 
in session, and that Moses quit immediately 
on learning of this.
The NCAA, of which C-MU is also a 
member, says that a player can compete on 
a team outside of his school at any time 
other than the season during which his 
school participates in that sport. However, 
until another ruling is handed down from 
the PAC, Carnegie-Mellon will have to do 
without Peter Moses’ valuable services.
Max Lebbin scores tie-breaking goal for Tartans.Photo by Chris Forland
by Jim IJtsas
The Tartan football team lost to the 
Bethany Bisons in Bethany, West Virginia 
by a score of 18-8. A very big crowd of 
students, parents, faculty and alumni 
turned out on the beautiful Saturday 
afternoon to watch their team’s 
homecoming victory.
Saturday was perfect football weather 
and the field was in good shape for the 
game. Many Tartan fans drove to Bethany 
to cheer their team on, and the Kappa 
Sigma fraternity sent along their revered 
cannon in aid to the Tartan effort. The 
Bisons had a cannon, too, which was very 
loud. Bethany fraternities, cheerleaders and 
a marching band kept the crowd enter­
tained, and all in all, the Bisons had a very 
nice Homecoming Weekend at C-MU's 
expense.
Sorenson led his team to two touchdowns; 
the first, a pass to Joe Otto from 4 yards 
out and the second, a pass to Bill Walker, 
who had a good day on the receiving end 
of the football. The Bison’s defense pushed 
the Tartans into the endzone twice for 
safeties.
Jay Duquette and Ted Harhai switched 
off at quarterback, as they had during the 
Tartans’ opening victory last week at 
Oberlin. In addition, Harhai made several 
extremely nice punts. Brad Punko caught a 
Jay Duquette pass in the middle of the 
fourth quarter and took it 35 yards into 
the Bethany endzone for the Tartans’ only 
score. John Radic starred as rusher and 
receiver, Bob Curtis led the poor rushing 
show of 44 yards (as compared to 226 
yards last week), and Brian Carlock made 
some key receptions, including a two-point 
conversion.
Tartans Squeak Past Hiram
by Jeff Englund
A favored Tartan soccer team struggled 
through a scoreless first half with the 
Hiram Terriers in Tartan Stadium on 
Saturday before icing the match on a 
power-play goal halfway through the 
second period.
Max Lebbin accounted for the Tartans 
lone tally, assisted by Mike Smith and Dave 
Fry. Smith passed to Fry, who got the ball 
in front of the goal. Lebbin then kicked it 
in from a few feet.
The Tartans had double the number of 
shots on goal of Hiram, but weak play in
the line permitted only one score.
Sophomore goalie Mark Canepa had eleven 
saves for C-MU.
After the game Tartan coach Steve
Fagan said that the C-MU linemen will have 
to be more aggressive and work for better 
sho!s if the team is to defeat PAC powers 
Bethany and Allegheny, with whom the
Tartans are vying for the title they
narrowly missed last season.
The victory raises C-MU’s conference 
mark to 3-0. Next Saturday the Tartans 
journey to Cleveland to meet John Carroll 
in PAC action, and on Tuesday the Pitt 
Panthers will invade C-MU.
CMU's Bob Curtis tries to evade a tackle.Photo

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9. 1973-Page 15
All Stars Win Wild One; Beta Bounces SAE
by Mike Pochan
On paper, it looked like a tremendous 
game. In reality, it was twice that, for the 
display of skill, agility, finesse, and bru­
tality was like nothing ever seen before in 
an intramural football game. Both teams 
were previously undefeated, and this con­
frontation would decide who would be top 
dog in the major league. But, the victory 
did not really settle the question, since the 
winning margin was only three points.
The Wild Bunch struck first with a 
touchdown pass from quarterback John 
Shanahan to Paul Johnsson. Then John 
Waites intercepted a McCurley pass to stall 
the Stars’ first drive. The Bunch scored 
again with a reception by Carl Brown.
Coaches’ All-Stars mounted another 
offense drive with Scatteregia as 
McCurley’s prime target. (McCurley has 
replaced Mike Koshute as QB). This time 
Charly Fletcher picked off a pass to give the 
Bunch another scoring opportunity.
Hockey Team 
Starts Practice
by Dave Girdanv
School is less than a month old this 
year, but already the CMU hockey team 
has started its season. “Spring Training” 
began on October 1st when the team held 
its first practice. The outlook for this year 
is excellent, as most of last year’s “cham­
pion” team is back again this year. (CMU 
never played Pitt in the championship 
game, so both CMU and Pitt can be con­
sidered champions. During the season, 
though, CMU defeated Pitt twice and tied 
Pitt once in three games.) The biggest loss 
suffered by this year’s team is the absence 
of captain and high scoring forward Jim 
Powers, who graduated last year. Returning 
standouts are forwards Mike Callaway and 
Mike Kenworthy and also Rich Eastmen, 
Rick Farman, and Joe Molnar, who all 
played both defense and offense. Finally, 
Jeff Hart, the league’s outstanding goal 
tender, will play again for the Tartans this 
year. The team expects to receive help 
from freshmen and other new players this 
year, so the return of star players and ex­
pectation of new talent make the Tartans a 
favorite for the league championship again 
this season.
The league has undergone some changes 
during the off season. Gone from it are 
doormats Slippery Rock and St. Francis, 
also, many of the home games of CMU, 
Pitt, and Duquesne will be played in the 
Civic Arena, a move which will probably 
increase attendance this year. CMU stu­
dents will probably be able to purchase a 
season ticket for all of the games their 
team will play in the Arena,which will cost 
less than individual game tickets. Look for 
these tickets soon-the Tartans’ first game 
will be next month. There will be fifteen 
league games plus a few exhibition games 
during the season.
If you are interested in playing for or 
helping the hockey team, contact John 
Hauser at PLP or Jeff Hart at SAE. Any 
help will be greatly appreciated by the 
team.
The ball went back to the All-Stars on 
fourth down and McCurley brought them 
ten yards away from a TD with a long pass 
to Whiting. The next play saw Mayo grab a 
short lob for the score.
The Bunch roared back with a touch­
down by Castenias on a pass from 
Shanahan.
The game became increasingly brutal as 
Whiting picked up pass interference in the 
endzone, giving the Stars the ball on the 
one-yard line. Bob Culbertson sucked in 
the short pass for the TD.
A fifty-yard gain by Bob Atkinson 
brought the Bunch into, scoring position 
again, but Culbertson intercepted to kill 
the drive. Mayo received again for the 
Star’s third touchdown.
With 1:05 left in the game, Scattaregia 
snagged a wobbly pass in the endzone to 
give the Stars a 29-20 lead. The Bunch 
bounced back to score on a pass to Paul
Johnsson; it was now 29-26.
Amazingly, the Bunch got the ball back 
with about 20 seconds left in the game and 
came within an eyelash of producing the 
winning touchdown. A long desperation 
pass to Bob Atkinson just slipped out of 
Looking like the championship team of 
last season, PIKA annihilated Grade A by 
the score ot 52-1 5. Grade A scored first on 
a TD by Frank Korbett, but after that it 
was all PIKA as the fratmen tallied nine 
touchdowns. Scoring for PIKA were: Doug 
Doxsey (3), Tim Taylor (2), Steve Rouch
(1), Don Treleavin (1). Dan Rowan (I), 
and Glen McKeeman (1).
In an extremely mediocre contest, PIKA 
beat Black Magic 14-5. Taylor and 
Roughan had TD’s for PIKA and Mike 
Wegener pulled an interception. PIKA had 
the ball within the twenty 4 times and 
could not score.
Coaches’ All Stars thumped SAE, 30-9,
Defending champion PIKA scored 52 points against 
Grade A last week.
Photo by John R. Rose
SPORTS LIBERATED
by Mary Jo Chabala
The women’s field hockey team met 
with a disappointing 5-0 defeat on 
Tuesday, September 25 against Chatham 
College.
Chatham scored four goals in. the first 
half but added only one in the second as 
the CMU defense started to come alive, 
playing all their positions correctly CMU, 
constantly on the attack during the last 
quarter, launched a barrage on the 
Chatham goal in the the last four minutes, 
but were unable to score.
As a whole the team made a decent 
showing, having had only four practices 
and featuring eight beginners. The game 
which was to be played with Waynesburgh 
on Saturday, September 29 was cancelled 
due to rain.
The women’s intramural volleyball 
teams play Monday through Thursday in 
the Women’s gym. Thus far, there have
been twelve games with three weeks of 
play yet to come. The scores for the 
previous week are as follows:
Basement Rats over Kappa Sigms Sisters
15-3, 15-2 
Basement Rats over Veni, Vidi, Vici
15-1, 15-3
Veni, Vidi, Vici over Eieio’s
15-2, 15-9
Black Magic over EZBO’
forfeit
Faculty-Grads over Veni, Vidi, Vici
15-0, 15-6
Basement Rats over Eieio’s
15-7, 15-10
Faculty-Grads over Cleo & the Anchor Asses
15-7, 15-4
Basement Rats over Dawgs
15-6, 15-3
EZBO’ over Eieio’s
15-5, 15-3
in a contest that displayed the offensive 
power of the Stars. Malone and Whiting 
had two TD’s each and Scattaregia had 
one. Ted Schiffman sc6red SAE’s lone 
touchdown.
In a battle of the last place teams, the 
Phi Kappa Tators defeated Black Magic 
26-16. The Magics started out hot, with 
Tom Brown scoring on a pass play. Ron 
Boyce followed soon after with six more 
points. But the Magic defense did not hold 
together, as they allowed Ernie Legg to 
score three touchdowns on passes from QB 
Steve Baker. With 7 seconds left in the 
game, Wizzard put the icing on the cake 
with a fine reception to give PKT a 10 
point victory margin.
Beta Theta Pi crunched a floundering 
SAE by the score of 40-8 in a game that 
saw mostly Beta offense and Beta defense. 
Touchdowns were scored by John Rollins
(2), Jeff Grube, Jim Donnelly Brogan and 
Lankford (returning the opening kickoff!). 
Stan Smith forced a safety. Jeff Hart 
scored SAE’s only TD.
Wrestlers!
Sign up for this 
year's team
by Jim Litsas
Like most every other team at C-MU 
this year, the wrestling team has a chance 
to chalk up its best season in several years. 
In fact, Coach Steva, who initiated the 
Tartan wrestling team just four years ago, 
says that this year’s freshman group could 
be the heart of the best wrestling team 
C-MU has ever had, in quality if not in 
quantity. But of the more than 30 fresh­
men on campus with high school wrestling 
letters, only 12 showed up for the first 
wrestling meeting. Where are over 18 
freshmen hiding?
Coach Steva thinks there are three main 
reasons why wrestlers aren’t showing 
interest in the team. First of all, there are a 
lot of academic pressures on the students 
at C-MU, which inhibits them from partici­
pating in extracurricular activities. But 
there are really very few students who are 
so bogged down with academic pressures 
that they have absolutely no time for any­
thing else. More often, their faculty and 
peers lead them to believe that they have 
no time. Lastly, there are many students 
who would really want to participate in 
various sports, but have classes at indecent 
hours-in particular, when these various 
teams are holding practice.
Do you fall into one of the above 
categories? Let it be known that the 
University encourages, rather than dis­
courages, extracurricular activities. 
Wrestling candidates are needed, and that 
means anyone interested; freshmen or not, 
experienced or lacking in such, come talk 
to Coach Steva. Candidates should report 
to the Coach’s office in the basement of 
Donner Hall between 3 and 6 p.m., 
October 10, 11, and 12, to pick up work 
out sheejts, physical exam cards and equip­
ment cards. If you have any kind of 
problem that’s keeping you away, come 
talk it over with Coach Steva so that he 
will at least know you exist. He will make 
every effort to work your problem out.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 9, 1973
TUCSDAY OCT. 16 AT 8:30 P.M. IN THE CARNCCIl MUSK HAll
THE CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS
IN LECTURE
erich von daniken
author of 'The Chariots of the Gods
Tickets FREE with CMU I.D. ONLY
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
THE CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS
to LsoLeGr
STRAWBS
THURSDAY, OCTOBER II 
8:30 In The SKIBO BALLROOM 
FREE WITH CMU I.D.
$2.00 without
