pwpppsip^
jfen mu6t be at liberty to 
gjij in print whatever they 
¿¿ve in imod to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANAWixt (íarncgte 3Tartau
Today's Editorials
A More Considerate 
Schedule
Youth Speaks Up
VOL. 29, NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA:TUESDAY, FEB. 19, 1935
Slight Majority Vote
Against Joining League 
In College Peace Poll
arnegie Opposes Entry 
Into League; Favors 
Munitions Control
jfenfmf u6 t6 bal 
iryo gup gw hav
'oil Returns from Carnegie 
Concur with Results 
Throughout Nation
inited Stales joining the League ,f Knlions by a slight majority— ' 01 pel- cent for • entering the league and 50.5 per cent agaiust. a According to , the returns Cor iarnegie- students . hers voted 4610 »f? against Joining the League all of the other questions therole of Carnegie approximates that1 ihe lolal for all of the US coh eges and universities participating.
Poll Arouses Interest The poll arousfed great Interest in he colleges, according to the Lit- jrarv Digest. Ballots were re- turned bv 112.60-7 Btudents, over 'ne-lbird oi those to whom they
poll." Of the 2.077 utu- glstered at Carnegie the ester- 742 or approximately ag per cent voted on this ballot.
On (be question os to whether Ihe United States could stay out of another great war the general vote than two to one In the affirmative, and the Carnegie vole 
19 494-248.
Most Would Defend Country 
Asked "it the borders o£ the Unite** Stales were invaded, would henr arms in defense of your iry.” sa.R per cent of the stu- a voted they would, while 16.”» •enl voted that they would not Carnegie students voted 617 ye», 
id Ufi no.
S2.2 per cent voted no on the leaiion ot "would you bear, arms r the united States in the Java- on ot the borders of another
and lai
All students balloted nearly & to for universal conscription of all rsources of capita] and labor to ontrol profila In time of war. Cai> legie students—60s to 134.
9 to 1 for Arms Control Dy a vole of more than 9 to 1 at (Continued on Page Two.)
Four Companies 
Interview Seniors
Rccommcndatiou Bureau 
Arranges Conferences
ilerviews for seniors have been mged by R. H. Watterson, pan of Recommendations. A few firms have already made plans tor sending representatives to Car- ncRie.
Tl«? E. j. Dupont <Je Nemours <1 Company of Wilmington. Del- idlng Mr. E. P. DuPont
snuhtall ;andthe depart- .mistry. interviews will i>o Iteli! in Room 12a Bngi- Jpriiitr Hall
The DuPont -Eayon -.Company_.oi. Jliiifrilo. New York. Is sending Mr. Hoff. Assistant Chemical Di- . to interview seniors in the f-ti-y department on - Th’.irV
>atiu-dny, March 1 and 2. In- ¦ws are to be held. In Room irics Building.A booklet entitled “Firestone the College Man” has been re­vived at the Bureau and it will Prove very interesting to those «¦•‘«nuns to learn something about 
lie l'irestone Company and Us lnimi‘nK class activities.Mr. r. W. Boynton, of the aocony-v«cmtni Oil Company ot ; ®'v York, will interview allsen- lors on Monday. March 4. This eoniiirmy js particularly interested Jn tlinse men who. wish to enter tue merchandising field. The in-' wi-.ows will be' held in Room 10B Maclimory Hall.Til ft Firestone Tire and-Rubber unup'rniy aiul the Socony-Vacuum Company have sent interviewbe filled:blanks, Which {¡¡¦'or to the interview. These Wanks in&v be had at the Bureau for Recommendations. Appoint; nionls must be made .at the Bureati
joinded of thé "material.vpertalning to advanced study, . through 6Chbl- «?hlps and fellowships; ribw avail- f e B eau ¿nd ot -n«ip in«» woTic' giveTv-and the re- [‘••••'•¡iiijnts -.as . set-forth • by the -»...ng schools of: the country a-e lieen catalogued and Uie stu- aro weed to tafce advantage 'uCae facilities.-..March.1. is the. date BeUhv'mpat.oC the. "coooig tor. these ^bplicatlon6:;u..:
Lecturer
Ralph Munn. wh<
Library Head 
Speaks Today 
At Assembly
Trip Through Antipodes 
Subject of Address 
By Dr. Munn
of Fine Arts, at 11:30.
“Ten Thousand Miles in the Antipodes" will be the topic of the address. The material for this lee ture was gathered by Dr. Munn on jv.recQnt trip to lands .in the soijth-
sored by the Carnegie Corporation
cstlng people, places, sian things.Dr. Munn graduatedtlwUnlversltv of Denver in 1»16.In the following vear received an A. B. degree from the same insti­tution. In 1921 lie obtained the decree of B. L. S. from the New York State Library School. His first position was that of reference libra " - - - •
bran
1928. Dr. Munn has been ciirector of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, and of the Carnegie Li­brary School. During the year 1Ü30-31. he was president of the Pennsylvania Library Association.
N.Y. Carnegie 
Corp. Donates 
“Music Set”
Automatic Phonograph, 
Records, and Books 
Comprise Gift
DEPT. OF MUSIC 
ARRANGESCONCERTS
First of Series Takes Place 
Tomorrow at 12:30 i 
Exhibition nail
The • world s finest music 
been made available to students at 
Carnegie through a gift of the Ca> 
negie Corporation of New York of 
complete music studv equipment.
This material, known as ’The 
College Music Set.” consists of an automatic electric phonograph- 824 recordings of mu&ical master­pieces, 2t>l musical scores. 12s volumes containing historical, biographical, and technical studies, and cabinets for the records and scores. The phonograph is.
records representing all nations, periods. 6tyle6, and vocal, choral, and Instrumental combinations. i the most important partof tbe equip™in miniature and some eapond with the records.possible for the audience follow the scores while listeningnake
to the music.
The books donated form the cen­ter of a- well-rounded music li­brary- The volumes contain titles ranging from Grove s Dictionary and the Oxford History to the i and latest in musical biograi history, theory, and crlticlsm. addiUon. the catalogue of the lists a supplementary bibliography of over 100- books on music.
The equipment will be used for a series of concerts which open to ell students. The first of this series will be presented tomor­row at 14:30 in the Exhibition hall. College of Fine Arts. The firstogram will be made up of
Music Students 
Present Recital
Program to be Held Sunday 
In Little Theatre
ill present a recital in the Little Theater of the College of Fine Arts.
The program Includes a move­ment of Lalos Symphonie Espag­nole played by Bernardino Foret­to: Debussvs "La soiree dan« Oranadc" and "jardin £ous la
Greselin. and two movements of Boellmann’s "Sonata" for cello and- piano played bv Paul Aifelder and Howard Specht.
In conclusion. William stone. Wilma Meise. Rose Aiello, and Louise Wingold will plav the Beethoven String Quartet. Op. IS,
People You Ought to Know...
By Clifton P. Boutolle
Earl Wild) Talented Musician """
It has been said that music is the only art of earth that 
man ruav take to heaven. Music soothes the mind of man. 
calms the angrv beast, and subdues the -wild. But liere at Car­
negie we liave a Wild man who subdues music.
Earl "Wild is one of the most outstanding pianists who has 
thumped the kcvs in the Department of Music in reccnt year -- ’ at tue*concerts ,ed the admiration of Pittsburgh’s music critics and his radio broadcasts have left little to be desired in the way of musical entertainment.
Last Thursday he played his first concert from (h sting studio in th
iw broad- Exhibition 
Room'of tlie Collese of Fine Arts. His program is now a weekly fea­ture over station WWSW.
He entered Carnegie last year as a regular st'uaent‘Irrthe D*pavt> ment of Music. Studies left little time for his music, so this year he returned as a special student tak­ing what he wanted. He- still has a well-filled schedule but he also has time to sit at his piano and produce “sweet: music that sooths the wrinkled brow of care."
His parents started him on the musical highway to success when he was six years old. Since that time, be Has: played' and-stu^d- al­most every Instrument which is used in a symphony orchestra.At one time a slightly inebriat­ed woman approached him in the middle of • a • concert and offered Jm ten dollars to play Handels 
LareO- There was no sale.
Earl Wild has composed t»e mfifc for the spring Ballftt « ...c»* will be given in April by student in the Departinbnt of Drama and 
month« hesd,666During th^ -.......— . ..U'.ffie' pianist :tor V1ctorr oaudek.
Schenley Hotel symphony arches- 
nothing buiPianist Wild jntempt for moderi methods of piano teaching.Thenis only one simple way, can learn. These novel methbds are just so much hot air and words.“T think jazz is all right,” says Earl, .“I can't piay it but neither do I object to It.” He believes that people who listen to jazz and don’t¿anee to it are "idiots.1'He';ritinv
to do them justice."American system of education is all wrong,” says Earl. “There is too much dabbling itx too many subjects and when a student has ¦finished-he has._fmly_.a .smattering of knowledge about many things
__ born in Pittsburgh'an«lattended the Carrick High School. Now he is lootvfng forward to the 
day wh. to go io Louuor
(Continued ­. Page Two.) ..
Eng. Honoraries 
Give Annual Dance
The annual All-Engineering 
honorary dance will be held 
Thursday.- February 21. The dance 
is glveo-. -by Tau Beta PI. Theta 
Tau. Eta Kappa Nu. and Pi Tau 
Sigma honorary fraternities.
The Grill room of the Hotel 
Roosevelt will be the scene of the 
altuir. and the hpurs ore from 10 
to 1. The: music Is to be furnish­
ed by George Fltnt. leader of the 
orchestra playing regularly ut the 
Hotel Roosevelt. Breakfast will 
be served during the latter part of 
the evening.
- The Ail-Engineering honorary 
dauce was originated two years 
ago. ana was m»o tteiu mat yeur. 
It is aesigned to he an informal 
dance-party with no elaborate 
preparations, to bring the mem­bers-.of the four engineering-hon- ornries into closer contact. The uance is to be an annual feature of. the honoraries. and i6 open to all members.-
• • Robert- B. Roberts -as is chair-
C. Latham ••aC.' John- P. Wilson and Paul H. -Dltzler a6. Mr. and Mrs. Schonvizner. ;wlll be the chaperons.
Intersorority 
Formal Plans 
Announced
Pat Notaro's Orchestra 
To Play; Dance is 
Closed Function
Pat Notaro and his twelve mid­shipmen have been engaged to plav for the Intersororitv Formal
Arts and Margaret Moi 
Tickets for the dance are on sale at $2.00 a couple and mav be obtained from members of Inter- sorority Council
inv|ted to attend the formal as patroness. The chaperons for the dance will include the faculty
band has been heard Pittsburgh collegiate affairs, al­though he has never before played on the Carnegie campus. Aside from his engagements at Pitt. Du- (juesne and P. C. W. he has also nloyed ot Penn State and Morgan­town house parties, -and at the Pines for several months.
Marie A.. Motter ¿o. a member of Beta Tau Lambda, was appoint­ed chairman of the committee for
including: OliveRoberts '3a and Mary Hnblev '3ß. Beta PI: Catherine Wiegel '37. Bela Tau Lambda: Virginia Robin-
Lehr '«*6. Alpha Theta Sigma.
Carnegie Grad 
Is P.C.W. Head
Dr.-Speucer- to -Aesume 
New Duties in June
ïti appointed President of the Pennsylvania College for Women.
Dr. Spencer receives the hearty ecommendation from educators fçr he is young—only 40 years ot age—progressive, bas .had broad experience in the field' of educa­tion, and his career has been one.
School after yoiir ceived the degreo. of Master ot Science from Pitt in 1926, ajid the
vill leave the position of Dean of College of Liberal Arts and
i of the planning committee of
Ed«,
Dr. spencer desiened and built Ins own uome m tox Chapel, where he lives with, his wife aou two daughters. • His -hohlnes photography and. engineering.
Fraternities 
Hold Annual 
Ball March 1
William Penn Ballroom 
.Is Chosen for Dance; 
Strictly Formal
TICKETS AVAILABLE 
AT $3.75 APIECE
Each Organization Allotted 
i Tickets m Proportion 
To Membership
. The Grand Bullroom of the Ho­tel William Penn has been se­cured us the setting for the an­nual Interfraternitv Ball whlcn •will take place Friday evening. March 1 from 10 till 2. Tickets .iced at $».75 per couple.
Kelvey ’¿¡G. chalrmon. Alpha Tau Omega fraternity: Eugene Treas­ure so, Theta- Xi fraternity: and L. Roger Burke ra5. PI Kappa Xlpha fraternity.The traditional grand march will be led bv the chairman. Mr. Mc- tfelvey. who is also vice president of Interfraternity Council. Mr. Me- Kelvey is in the Deportment of Commercial Engineering.• ; Decorations for the ball will, as Is traditional, consist of (ho ban­ners of the various^ fraternities. The Grand Ballroom is in the orig* inal building of the Hotel William Pena, which was first built •.'millionaires" club. The club plan failed and the building - was changed to a hotel. The room ap­pears today mat as it was planned originally for lh9 "millionaires club.". Tickets which will Bell at $3.75 •will be alloted to the various fra­ternities in proportion to the size1 0f the chapter, each house sub­scribing to a number etiualof two-thirds of the actives »•half of the pledges. The In the -past, is strictlyformal. The orchestra for the af­fair will be announced at a Iator date.
U. S. Has War 
Every 25 Years
fiol. Faìriey Speaks an—CCH 
Areparedness for Group
Wars come on the average of one© every twenty-five years in the United States, according to his­tory. said Colonel George E. Fair- lev at the last Safety Valve nieet- lnc. 1In connection with National De­fense Week, which extends from February 12 to 22. Colonel Fairley.
•e not so trained -War is a dirty business, but it mnot be prevented, he said. He chained that resolutions and eaties are mere scraps bf paper and peace-time pacifists are the first to shout "Hang the KaiserJ" in the event of war.He concluded by emphasizing his stand for "reasonable prepared- • and against America s mixing into European affairs, either polit­ically or economically, since she has her own problems to solve and her home markets to develop.tlie next meeting on Thurs­day at 12:30 in Engineering hall
fill sneak on -China Today/'
Mid-Year Registration
Shows Slight Increase
Carnegie Talent Dominates 
Associated Artists’ Exhibit
Madolme Vautrinot *35 is Awarded first Prize 
With Winter Landscape*; Five Other Wmmrs 
Are Members of Painting, Design Dept.
Carnegie has six prize winners m Hie L\ve»tv-lilth Annual 
Exhibition ot the Associated Artists; and from the total ot 220 
exhibitors, lyb «re present or lormer students ot the Depart­
ment ot Painting and Design, or members <>t that, lucultv.
The first, prize ot ¡fcLoO bus been uwnrtlecl to Mndolin Vnu- 
trinut. ¿tt). tor her painting ‘Winter ljimdsenpe/ This is thefirst art exhibition to which Mlaa^ --------------------Vnatrlnot has contributed, and she ¦ * "W7‘9Carnegie ix 
Will Operate 
Independently
Organization is Known 
As C.I.T. Christian 
Association
The Carnegie Branch- of the Pittsburgh Y. M. C. A.‘ hae m ed its connection with the M polilan Association. TlilB action became effective t>vo weeks ngo when the Committee of Manage* mont, which formulates the pol­icies ot the local organization, voted to operate independently of
Exhibitions. Before the decision of the jiirv mifi ininounced. she lind so>d the painting for $10 to Jack
At the end of her freshman yegiven the $2B A dvanccment Prize a
S the first
award - in the Associated Art­ists Exhibition- she has been
Madolln suiun* id com- Vautrlnot *’5 mereiai art in Vautrinot Philadelphia.
iniMi6S Vautrinot was Art Editor of the Talstle last year, the first wo. man to hold tlile position, and is al- ,«o a member of Mortar Board. Tan Sigiua Delta, the Arts Ball Com. mltlee. Puppet Staff. Cwens. Alpha Oh I Alpha, and Gamma Gamma Gamma, le an Honorary Cadet Cap.
! Mrs. Carolin McCreary. whoso
Women: Dorothy L. David«, award­ed the Ida Smith Memorial Prize of $100 for her . pointing "Farm News;- Professor Samuel Rosen­berg. of th© Department of Archi­tecture. awarded the Carnegie In­stitute prize of «2a0 for the best three canvases: and1 ProfessorRussell T- Hydo. winner of the Art Society Prize of $100 for his painting "Northeaster/
Institute'galleri
In Wixxt' is for the purpose of < ducting exhibitions and sales of sculpture and of original pictures In color and black and white; en­couraging and supporting th<>. study of art and the attainment of proficlcncv in it: and the fostertag appreciation of the work bv the genoral public. Any original (Continued 0» Page Five)
One More Orchestra Breaks 
Contract; Fails to Show Up
Students Fed up with 
Unscrupulous Tactics; 
Wan* Protection
Considerable resentment has 
sen aroused ¦ on the campus 
against orchestras and booking cor­
porations which have shown an 
utter disregard for contracts and 
haVe unscrupulously failed to hold 
faith witji the students.
most recent grievance oc- 
cured'at Ihe Arts- Bali last- Friday- 
nfeht The Orchestra Corporation 
of America was contracted with to supply "Doc" Payton’s Orchestra for both Friday and Saturday eve­
nings.
On Thursday a telegram.1
Doc” Payton was unable to but that Jim Carr and his orches- tra...would be. penL i.natead._ Thl,3, change was verified the next day by phone.
By 9:30 Friday evening, one half-hour after the Arts Ball was scheduled to start, no one from any orchestra betne students had ’been "stood up and that an emergency had arisen.
At that late hour, joe Falvo. a. local band leader, was contacted ana within an hour had assemoled his band >
Mr.. Falvo s Orchestra also plaved at the Post Arts Ball.For the last two years organisa­tions have ’encountered difficulties In keeping the orchestras original­ly contracted Cor. Particularly at
year's Junior Prom, so v much, switching of orchestrao has occur-' ~ed that unless the band is a local ¦me. an uncertainty has arisen that la not relieved until the orchestra
ten-oC members o! Stadont-CouncU and the Social Chairman is that this last incident Is the “last straw’1 and that they will attempt
As yet nothing definite has been arrived at as-to how this will be accomplished.
When questioned whether it was possible to arrange a contract that
i certain phraslngs of pro­vision in the contract which ke< them protected at all times. Tf this is not compiled with, they will not sign tne contract."¦•student organisations/ eluded, "are always at ti of the booking corporati onlv thing the students can rely
Lion. An illuminated Christian As­sociation Hign has been linng In place of the old "Y" Clubrooin
of the Metropolitan Y. M. C.Prof. Bovd C. Dennison, chair­men of the Committee Of Manage­ment: in commentine; on the nen setup said. "It Ja expected that ;ths,.noÂ^ari;aBS^ent.willi iner-ase the effectiveness of tlie “Y” upon our compus. Our plans contem­plate operation Inneijermeiitly of the Y..M, C. A. of Pittsburgh. b?iwill remalnasamembi Izatlon of the Community I' und.
Jtollln V. Davis, formery secre­tary of the ,-Y” will continue as Ex­ecutive Secretary of the Christian Association.
Mr. Davie when eekod about the future of the Christian Association, snid. -The chnngc In name and
> be under the lolnt <
* lo.be followed. We will
In eevering relationships with the Pittsburgh Y. M. C- A., the Car­negie group also gave up its affilia­tion with the national "Y.” The i Christian Association has- been adopted by mani; form«dent Y. M. C.. In collegesthroughout New England and the
; local Association .will Join . national group such as the
) definite progress is made.
Physics Colloquium 
Will Meet Tonight
The next meeting of the Physics Colloquium will be held tonight at 8:30 in Room 113, Engineering Hall. All students who are Inter­ested and who would like to take single unit subject are Invited
. Coming Events
Wednesdays- -.”12:30—Phonograph Concert.-^Exhibition liall, College' of Fine .Arts. :• ;y.7:115—Tartan Quarter Hour,’• WWSW.- "• - v'.' '¦7:15—Important Thistle' 'staff. .meeting,':Tartau office..8:30—Public Lecture, Dr:-(Gus.tav Paul'l — “Romanticism’’.^
Thursday^-"'' .......' '„'"’'"'T*1:30—Piano Recital,' 'Earl Wild' — Exhibition hall -r alao: WWSW: '. -'i• 10 to 2—Intersorority Formal '— Pittsburgh • Country • Club";— Pat Noiaro’s arcuestra. . - i0 to 1—All -"Engir.scring • Kon:
3 A- 'MiT^-Tartatx- make-up;
Total Enrollment Ts 12 
Greater Than Year 
Ago; Total 2,035
44 NEW STUDENTS 
HAVE REGISTERED
Engineering School Shows 
Greatest Gain; M.M.C.C. 
Attendance Uiees
Forty-rour new students have enrolled this semoster. according to registration figures compiled at- *riBjxtictlv tho ynrno us llio number .vho entered nt mld-venrs in lftsa. .. 
There are 2.03G day students- irolled at Carnegie while at
tho registrants were enrolled ra­the College of Engineering. Engl- »coring school also shows an In­crease of e/gbtv-Glght atmlnnls’ over the totals of a year ago.
Last veor there wore 612 stu­dents in tho College of Fine Arts.
ollments the Arts 1 School also fell behind. Seven.- new students entered. In Zs/34 there wore eight and In lySs eleven
entrances. Sixteen new students • were accepted. This Is more than -doubla tho numoer entering In for- ’ ruer years. ••Registrar Alan Bright pointed:
past few vears in spite of trouble-.- some times. - Carnegie has been: ailected only slightly bv the fall-: lug off In attendance which has- been noticeable in other colleges.In his survey of tho present an* .; rollment figures Mr. Bright pointed-:1 out that the present, senior class; la one ot the largest in recsQt.. . vcam. - T-ucre. Jirs:.i36.:senlors;saJids= twenty-one Euih-aenlora in the Do--.-, partment of Architecture., making a total of 457. . /The .Registrar, bolleves ..that there la less shrinkage in the pres*-- ¿nt classes than nt anv previous -, time. This Increase in tlie percent­age of entering students who grad­uate Is attributed to more difficult' requirements for admission to Cat-. negta Better students are select-' ed by the present requirements . than was the case several yeara- ngo..The heyday of the rah rah joe - Colloge type of studorit is past.:-. Entering students today i
Ore anxious to succeed.Another reason for the reduction . in the number of students who ¦ dnop out Is the large number of:
301 scholarships- - awarded every semester. One out7”
Three Carnegie 
Programs on Air
Broadcasts Will Originate 
In Exhibition,Room
by studenti frc of. M.uytc at J.:30; todà.y. William.-
Bacii Concpvto; fpL-.Yiolfn and oboe. - 
Tpmorr.ow.^eyeniag, at ;'7tlC. the Tartan Quarter • Hour- ’.’ features “Campus HlghJishts1,;Vi..ili,e "Two--: Scotch Lassies”—a' novelty piano •
ifld.' .i.outse ,>VlrigpJd,] cello... Thlsi^-v 'jirogràm will -• álao .bó 'pláyed .;at';- 12:30 on'Thiirsdaÿ: ’-,f'[%¦}. "¦• ' All,.- of^1 t\>e l :íirpgrams are! ariSiS ràn’éed._ directed;. ' nounceby‘ Carl M.’ Dozer. \cie. ! pëpartmélit;v^, 
of- Drama. Student’ ‘àu^Yèrices^û^SÎ^ Invi ted' to nttend. > Late this Tnbnttí;\&gí WWSW .will Jòin a> state-wide -netiMftlL Vork.' lanä (the] .ÔàTOègi^r ïeeLtils'yjy^ will 1)© amOng the iietwoTk easts. V 1 , JOn -Marcii 15 ' ia. .'. conference-'prominent ‘ musicians' will he^helù ife irif‘J.:Pift&burgh. The? ^Carnegie^ o—•^¦ •featuring':#symphony
soiolsis:' will: brofldc-i Cairnegie -"Music• Hall where-,th6;^ conference 'wrli be held Walter 1 Dnmrosch and • other prominenW; .artista .attending .'the meeting .\wlH\« pe tntei'ylewedix

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 19, 1935
M. M. Juniors 
To Hold Prom
Annual Dance Planned 
For Friday, March 8
LEHR IS CHAIRMAN
Hotel Scbenley Ballroom 
Is Chosen for Affair
The Women’s Junior Prom, plan aed for the women of the junior . and senior classes of Margaret> Morrison, will be held. Friday,> Iftarch 8, in the Hotel. > Schenley ballroom irom 10 until 2. -As yet -there have been no ucilnlte ar­rangements concerning the orches­
tra.This dauce is planned especially for the Junior class of Margare* Morrison and will be strictly i closed affair. One-hall the prlc« of the tickets should be paid bj . every member of the cla8S to covei expenditures, the committee ha?
• decided.Betty Lehr, social chairman ani Tice president of the junior class will head the committee as chair- •inan. Emilv Bumgiirner, Elizabeth Stuart, Lucille Meyer, and Plor encc McCullough are members of 'the business committee; Dorothy Stevens, Margaret McKeon, and Betty MarUey are in charge of pro­grams* Margaret Shultz is in charge of the orchestra. Betty Mc­Gregor is a member of Che com- .. mitte». ex-officio,..as, president of
Progress in Steel 
ResearchReported
Dr. Wells Describes Purest 
Iron Ever Made, Alloys
the method of steel manufac­ture were discussed at the eighth annual ’meeting' of'thfe ‘metal1 lurgical Advisory Board to CaT*- hegie in the Carnegie Union• February 8. Over 550 scientists and executives of steel mills lis­tened to papers on investigations- being carried on in the Metals Re­search Laboratory, which told of the latest progress in the study of steel making.Dr. Charles H. Herty, Jr., for­merly with the board, presented J'four papers containing a complete yreport o? the research work car­ried on under his supervision foi' the past eight years. The sub­jects of the papers were: “The Ef­fects of Deoxidation on the Impact Strength o' Carbon Steels at Low Temperatures," “RaLe of Trans­formation and Grain Size," “Deox- . idation of Steel," and “The Control ' of-Iron Oxide in the Basic Open- Hearth Process." The effects of various non-metalllc and gaseous .elements on the strength and baro­ness of steel, and of various methods of removing them by ox­idation and deoxidation.
New Methods Described v The manufacture of the purest Iron ever made in large quantities ..and . the behavior of such iron and its alloys were described by Dr. «Cyril Wells of the Metals Research Laboratory in' two papers, “The ^Preparation and properties of HIch Purltv Iron. " and “The Constitu­tion and Behavior of High Purity ifon-Carhon Alloys." Dr. Wells ‘told- how Carnegie scientists, by "passing purified hydrogen over 'Iron, just below its melting point, 'succeeded in producing iron which Is over .99.95 per cent pure. The impurities still remaining—silicon, nlckle, manganese, chromium, and tjbpper—are present in such small quantities that they can be dctev- . mined only by spectroscopic methods.Expect New Developments With such pure samples to work ¦with, Carnegie scientists hope to , learn many new facts about the
.Honored
Dr- Lawrence R. Guild, head of the Department of commercial Engineering, who was recently jip-
Prof. Named 
Society Sec.
Phi Kappa Phi Honors 
Dr. Lawrence Guild
Dr. Lawrence R. Guild, bead of 
the Department of Commercial 
glneering, has been appointed 
retary-genoi'al of the National 
Honor Society, Phi Kappa Phi, 
organization with, admission otaly 
on a basis of' scholarship. Phi 
Kappa Phi has chapters In forty- 
seven colleges and ' universities 
throughout the United States.
Dr. Guild succeeds the late Dr.
C. H.-Gordon, who.was an- officer 
of the society for twenty-three 
years. The new appointee studied 
at Yale University from which he 
received the B. A., M. A., and Ph.
D. degrees. He ia joint author with 
Dr. E. S. Furness of Yale, of “La­
bor Problems," a textbook widely 
used In college economic courses. 
Before coming to Carnegie In 1927 
he taught at Yale and also at Tus- 
culum College, Greenville, Teen. 
He was promoted from assistant pvoressor of economics to his pres­ent position in 1932.
Recenty Dr. Guild was appointed
bearings of labor controversies. The local labor board Is made j> of six members representing la­bor and six employer members. President Thomas S. Baker of Car- ûegieja the chairman .of the board Jewett, former ollege of Indus- : director of the
Dr. R. F. Mehl, director of the Metals Research Laboratory, and Mr. B..N. Daniloff and Dr. V. N. Krivobok of the laboratory staff also presented papers. Dr. Mehl
Mild Steels."
Next ChapeJ 
To Hear Rabbi
Dr. Freehof is Rodef 
Shalom Leader
TIME IS CHANGED
Service Will Be Sponsored 
By Christian Association
Chapel service will be held next Tuesday at 11:30 in the Little Theater, College of Fine Arts. Dr.
This will be the first Hi Dr. Fieebof has spoken campus. He come #to Pittsburgh during the past year to take Di Goldenson’s place. During his short time In this city he has made many friends and he is e stantly la demand to speak heft various organizations. Dr. Free- hoC comes to the campus highly recommended, many peop]<
succeeded the Y. M. C. A. campus, will be In charge of the ice. They have-asked the-1’
i them In sponsor- ng this gathering.The groups In charge have ask­ed that the students pay particular notice to the change in time of the chapel service. Instead'* of being ' 12:30 as formerly,' it isscheduled at 11:30 Tuesday so
these services. The serviceby 12:10 so that those at­tending may have an opportunity to eat before going to their classes the next hour.
Art Authority
Peace Poll Results 
Against League
More Than Third of Ballots 
Returned in FiDal Count
(Continued From Page One) Carnegie, of 664 to 78, students showed their-advocacy of ; control of armament ultlons industries.Voting 63 per cent to 37 per ent at Carnegie, 411 to 329, they oiced opposition to a national policy that a “navy and air' forco second to none is a sound metho< of insuring us against being drawu ' ito another great war."
Is Accurate Cross-Section Concerning the ballo*., tb^ Di- est makes the following state­ment: “In view of the reputation for accuracy which the -Literal. Digest polls have established with smaller percentages of returns, is '„safe to say that the results the College Peace Poll portray
Summarizing results .the- Digest finds that in only one college did majority believe that the United could not stay out of an other war. and in only eighteei that the policy of ntsvy and air rces second to none is sound.55 Schools ravor League The. League of Nations received favorable majority in fifty- re colleges; an unfavorable >te in sixty-three. Of this,the Digest says “In general, those colleges which have well- established reputations for liberal ducatioual policies, arc the col- p.ges in which a majority of dergraduates voted in favor of the League of NaticThe •in Queen’s Universityin Ontario, the one Canadian uni- ¦erslty asked to vote, was very lose in its results to that of the American schools, except that a majority of 97 per cent advocated Canada's remaining in the League.
G-E Campus Nmf
FLEA-POWER MOTOR 
New photoelectric cells» recently developed in ¦ the .General Electric Research Laboratory, furnish enough energy to operate a tiny elec- uic motor rated st four tcn-millionths of a horeepower.
These “celU" differ from photoelectric “tubes” in that the cells convert light energy U.o electric energy, whereas phototubes do not themselves generate . electricity hut inatoail control the amount of current permitted to
the building. Thus it is possible for an expend!« turc in ctectric energy equivalent to 100 heat units to obtain a total of 300 or 400 units for heating.
‘ During _tHo" 'summer' th e' process ’iflTcversedT" The heat is absorbed Irom the air of the build, ing. Then this heat, with the heat from the comprcssora, is dissipated in the water.froiq the well, which then <*-an be u&ed for bathing*
Besides heating and cooling, the equipment automatically controls the humidity, and cleans and circulates the ait.’The enciibecring and the planning for the installation were done by engineers of the American Gas and Electric Company and the General Electric Company,' and the equipment was built and installed by General Electric.
/ through th<receive. Thé»rdiiig to theof the
: toms at about 400 
I ' * w h ‘W>erST ^ converted 
-lamp is lighted eight-inches amy-frvux-the
of power c
t good speed, using f an ampere. Ono* “ i be obtained from aboiit 15 square
. C. W. Hewlett, North Ph. D., Johns Hopkins, ’12, of the Research Laboratory .was in charge of investigations that led to the development of the cells and die tiny motor.
' HEATING WITH COLD WATER 
'Reversible, airrcpn&tjonm# eqiupuiffofc .W'Kcb... may be adapted to either heatmç or cooling, depending on_ the season, is pow m operation
... 3t 52 degrees i coldest , weather. Hus heat is added »- that created by the work of the electricall'
ioli, the well-knoi . ____ .orchestra leader, came down to see bow his 1 violin nMisJooked in lhe device. He had only ••
^Humoresque'* that he stayed for
the Carnegie Union.
Noted German 
Talks on Art
Dr. G. Pauli Discusses 
‘Romanticism’ Wed.
two lectures, „“Currents of Modern Art In 'Germany” today, and “Romanticism” tomorrow at 8:30 In the Union, Administration Building. No admission cards required.
Dr. Pauli arrived in United States for a three months' lecture tour under the Carl Schurz Me­morial Foundation. He will lec­ture on the different periods of German art, and certain phaseB of art in general.
Carl Schurz Memorial Founda­tion which sponsors these lectures
group Is devoted t of appreciation of the cultural achievements of German peogle. 
On hia first trip to U. S., Dr.
Engravings of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth centuries, and Modern Painting In German.Dr. Pauli was educated at Unl- erslties of Strassburg. Basel,
and Spain. He has written books on German Art and Euro­pean Art in general, dealing < pescially with the Renalssanc., Romantic and modern periods. His lecture tour this time will cover Currents of Modern Art In Ger-
Old Books Are Desired 
For U. S. Leper Colony
The students of Carnegie arc being asked to turn in to Dr. Mc­Leod’s office or at 926 Bellefonte street (Just off Fifth avenue) any spare books that they have in their possession.Thcs6 books will be used in es­tablishing libraries at the U. S. Government l'»per colonies at Car- llle, Louisiana, at the Cullion Isl­ands in the Philippines, and at St. Croix in the Virgin Islands. Mrs. Malcolm McLeod, who is in charge of this work, is also collecting a uck load of reading matter for
Fraternities 
Receive Aid
Grants Are Made Under 
National Housing Act
MAY BORROW $2,000
Length of Time Determined 
By Financial Organizations
Money at a low rate of interest may now be secured by fraterni­ties for use In repairing and mod- nizlng their chapter-houses
$1,700 which is now being used ii modernizing their house.
The National Housing Act' makes it possible for the home ' > borrow any amount from
t by the government. The N. H. A. provides funds to Insure the loans for the bank or other organ­ization making the loan, and not for the loan itself.
The loans are made with the res­ervation that the- money will be used only for permanent improve­ments of the house or grounds. Such things as furniture, radios, and vacuum sweepers may not be purchased with the money. Jf any. new fixtures are attached to the ,property.. as., a^built-in-radlo, it will be considered a permanent improvement.
Rates of interest-on the notes are determined by the financial in­stitution but may not exceed five dollars per hundred dollars ­. the original face value for a year or five, per cent a yeor. After the loan is made it Is reduced by reg­ular,'equal, monthly payments un­til It Is paid In full.
These . notes may -run for any number of months up to five years. The terms of the note, however, depend on the * discretion of thé financial organization and are usually three years. No security is usually required except that the borrower have a regular Income and a good credit standing. The borrower’s monthly Income must, however, be at least five times the amount of the monthly payment.
At present in Allegheny County there are about 60 financial insti­tutions authorized by the govern­ment to make loans under the Let. Applications should be made o one of theso' institutions or 'to a ontractor, building supply deal-. equipment manufaitaller.
People You Ought 
To Know ... |
'mutes-dally-from-his home in-Car- rick. His favorite haunt on the campus Is the “Beanery,” for his stomach is even closer to his than music..
Although he has only been
however, .‘he doesn’t understand why the school spends so much money on the engineering coltege and neglects .the Department of Music. “We haven't one decent In the' whole - college,’’ he wails. “Our practice rooms are dirty, dingy holes. I wish some­thing i •Th:‘dace an orchestration entitled 'Symphonic Variations of Atneri- Folksongs.
Will College Plan of Yale 
Succeed Fraternity System?
Greek Letter Societie’s 
Usefulness Doubted 
By Plan Sponsors
Is the fraternity system doomed? If not. will it continue as it has in the past or will it undergo serious changes aiid emerge as
the future of fraternities have been raised in all sections of the coun­try with increasing frequency in the last few* months. With the in­troduction of the College Plan at Yale and Its subsequent effect on the greek letter societies there have : forth doubts concerning tho
economically and socially sound in­stitution?
in an attempt to answer these questions brlefily let us first exam­ine the system critically and ask,
c-ial betterment of cach individual and bound to one another by the feeling of brotherliness. Actually
the whole by two drives—economic and social. No one pledges a fra­ternity to improve hlB scholarship
he thinks can provide^jnore .genial companions, better living condi­tions, improved social status on the campus, and in some cases because of greater possibilities offered in campus politics.
The survival of the present fra­ternity system depends on its abil-
be secured elsewhere without an undue differences In the actual cost of living, it is true that the College
-there. The issue ie simple for the school has merely provided better living conditions aud social advantages than formerly. Physlcal-
all Its members, undergraduate and faculty, a dining ball, a small li­brary, one or more lounges, and
from 170 to 200 undergraduates. Not only are the Colleges attrac­tive living quarters, but social
conditions at a lower cost than the fraternity is able to provide them. The College, however. i3 not able to give the same feeling of brother­hood which is prevalent among fra­ternities. A majority of the Yale greek letter societies have decided that this “fraternity spirit” is suf­ficient for their continued existence, though they are not allowed to
the .irican collegesndition as exists there today Js not likely- to become prevalent throughout country for many years hence as it involves considerable expense on the part of the-school adopting it. If it does, however, fraternties will probably become more nearly intellectual groups they are today.
Importance on the campus they must remain within the reach of the fellow with average financial lesources, which at Carnegie is
Cooking Lab. 
Is Remodelled
Equipment and Furniture 
Bought for M. M.
The remodelling of the laboratory 
and dining room belonging to the 
institutional management - division 
under the Department of Household 
Economics, which is now under way, will be finished within the next four weeks.
The equipment which has been bought for the laboratory Is the most modern and efficient to be had. The new utilities will include an electric refrigerator, a steam (able, an electric dishwasher, and new metal cabinets. -Everything in the laboratory is being matched harmoniously. There will be white tile walls and porcelain plate
of the new equipment. The set-up
in a small space and within a lim­ited budget.
The products of the laboratory will be used in faculty luncheons to be served In the dining room. Al-1 though plans are-not fully formu- lated.- it'Is believed that the wood-1 work of the dining room will be painted old ivory, end that the new furniture will be old American.
The remodelling of this depart- nt is being done in mid­
money to meet demands of credi-
The problem cl finance is the most serious which fraternities face today, it must be solved il they wish to number as maiiy men among ts members RR they do today. In the last few years more and more freshmen have be­gun to look critically on the fra­ternity system and carefully weigh its advantages against those of bc-
the fraternity men there tew who feel that it has not beea worth it to them, but the fact re­mains that fraternities have suf­fered by this comparison.- There Is but one solution to this aspect v? Ihe situation, and that is to re­duce the fraternity expenses, live simply and put the house on
International An 
Paintings on Show
Sixty-Six Prize Winneri 
Hanging in Arts School
Sixty-six of the paintings which 
bave been awarded first, second, or 
third prizes in the Carnegie iQier. 
national Art Exhibitions during 
the past thirty-seven' years, ar? 
now on exhibition in the galleria 
of the Department of Fine Arls.
The^e prize paintings represent­
ing the early years of the Inlema- 
tlonal are ‘.‘Miss Kitty” by Jam» 
H. Shannon, winner of the fUst 
prize in 1897; J. Alden Wier’s ‘in- 
terior with Figure,” winner ot the 
third prize of that year; “.Alolhe, 
and Daughter” by Ceilia Beaux, 
awarded first prize in 1899. The 
first prize paintings of 1901, 1909, 
and 1910 are Alfred H. Maurer's, 
“An Arrangement,” Edmond c. 
Tarbell’s “Girl Crocheting,” ana 
William Orpen’s “Portrait of u,e 
Artist.”
George Bellows is represented 
by his thrld prize canvas of 1911, 
“Cliff Dwellers' and hlB first prize 
canvas of 1922, “Eleanor Jean and 
Anna.”
Other pictures are Giovanni 
Romagnoli’s “After the Bath," 
Henri Eugene Le Sidener'e 
“Widow on the Bay of Vllle- tranche,” Ferruccio Ferrozzi’a “Horatia - and Fabiola/’. and Anto Carte’s “Motherhood.”
In the more recent group apaintingfirst priie
first prize picture of 1931 
This is the first, time that the prize paintings
r galleries shows the history ot
the permanent collodion of the Carnegie Institute galleries.
Choose your batik 
as you would choose 
a friend
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa,.
The Telephone wcan take it!”
Your telephone must work 24? hours a day. It 
must be immune to icy blasts of the frozen north 
—dry burning heat of the desert—heavy* humid 
atmosphere of swamp lands.
And it is. For Western Electric—manufacturing 
unit of the Bell System—sees to it that telephones» 
switchboards and cable are prepared for life^any­
where. Through long experience and rigorous 
testing, telephone engineers have learned how to 
make apparatus which is 
not adversely affected by 
the^hiins'of dimafe. '
Through pioneering and 
producing such improved 
apparatus, Western Electric 
contributes to~ the year 
’round reliability of your 
Bell Telephone service.
DELL TELEPHONESYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACKV-
• •
BY JERRY HANSONÚaJ
Ti
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 19, Ï935
Scots Unscathed by Final Exam Jinx of Past
0 TflUSTY'TYPER HAS BECOME rather rusty for lack of oil dur- 
Dg the last couple weeks.of exams and registration. I’m not saylug 
jjjHt: I dlda’t do. my share .of shoveling during the exams—but they 
¡routdu’t let me curry the machine into the gym, so It has lai<T\vhere
1 kicked it under my desk ia favor of the text books the night before 
jje final Uri
NOTICE THE SCREAMING HEADLINES! TRY not to notie« theml 
Ife a fact—not a one of the Tartan cagemén succurobcd to the Ineli­gibility Jinx which has caused so much -havoeln past years suit of first semester finals. Max Hannum was quite overcome by that 
fbitof 9°°d fortune. He says it's the first time It has happened at Cai 
as far as he can remember—and Max has been following $ports 
-negle—when he hasn't been leading them in his present official 
(opacity—for many, many years.
LrEf DUKES WERE NOT SO BLESSED, /or they lost their star floor- 
eek ago when the bluff institution rated him ineligible to play 
Ifw the varsity. The star is Jimmy Murphy—who was a frequenl and 
polent Ihorn in the side of. the opposition.
-pby is Lhal diminutive pack of tricks seen dancing on the Hill­
side who won his berth by the accuracy of his playing, which 
|ùr outweighed bis handicap of lightness—335 pounds..
SDNo IMMEDIATE PREDECESSOR IN THJS CORNER of the sports 
sheet Is hack In-school again, after a healthful sojourn In .the south­
western oil fleide. ¡'Jack Lowes, sun tanned'originator of "The Tues­
day Quarterback," Is back'to get his passport into the alluring e|assl- 
:ibn.which boasts the B, S. 1
jack Is a master scribe right to the heart, and he looks forward to 
gelling a position In Journalism with the return of “happy days-’’ for 
spapers of his home town, Tulsa, Okla. Jack’s powers of 
of sports history Is Infallible, and It there Is ever a' question 
about who's who or. what’s what In the sports world, he’s-the lad to a6k-‘
Tartan Cagemen in Sbape 
To Meet Remaining 
Floor Teams
PREXIES TONIGHT; 
STATE SATURDAY
Wash-Jeff on Home Court 
Offers Little Threat 
In Return Game
With exams now a thing of tl past, the Tartan floor squad is no set to continue its campaign i full strength, ever/ man on tl team being eligible. Five gam« are left on the Skibo roster at the cagers must hie on their toes 
goodly percentage
Harpsler Given 
Football Berths
Howard Harpster, head football 
coach at Carnegie Tech, has been 
named to two important posts by 
Bernie Bierman, Minnesota coach, 
who also is head of the Football 
Coaches’ Association.
Harpster ¡las been appointed 
the association's membership cc 
mittee by Bierman, and also has 
been made representative of the 
Second District Tor the secondaightTho second dis-trict includes the Middle Atlantic states.
According " to all reports r available Howard Hurpster will turn as head coach al Carnegie for the 1935 season. Other chauges
coming series, they would stand out as one of the finest teai the East.
The first game to be play., „ one with the Presidents from
Howwell-rested Plaid
urgin. In-
Washington and Jefferson Carnegie floor, tonight. The lads from Little Washington offer tie threat to the Tartans. ’*... Presies have done little all seosoiin the way of chalking up victories ‘ J * encounter with thfmonth ago were cle
Welcii back, Mr. Lowes!
INCIDENTALLY JACK LOWES ASKED ME recently If the Tartan 
grldders wore to have spring training this year. I told him that I 
didn't know, but that In view oi the fact that the Athletic Association 
vas curbing expenses somewhat, I thought that, spring practice might 
bs cut out this year.' Thereon Jock recalled the-outstanding'slump, 
which resulted several years ago, when for two years Carnegie did 
-wilhout spring training;and-experienced the worst seasons In lie foot­
ball history. That argument certainly mokes It appear that the Ath­
letic Association 6hould And spring training more profitable In the.long 
run than doing withoufit—-provided somo constructive coaching: Is 
ployed beside the usual, simple physical exercising of the team.
IN ANOTHER INFORMAL INTERVIEW Milt Dinger deplored the 
ilent managing situation in the Carnegie sport6,- and I was moved to 
•gree with him. There are many managing positions open li 
nrious fields—the ones of moat Immediate Importance are in track, 
Mere Is a major sport offering many opportunities to the student with 
managing aspirations which) Is notably lacking In representation, all In 
spite of the attractiveness of the conditions surrounding thé act)'
Maybe the fraternities think that managing track, swimming, box­
ing—anything except football—Is "small fry," but they should reall: 
that .these fields offer managerships which do.not put great require­
ments on time, but which give-the recognition that goes hand-in-hand 
with those organizations which can boast the largest number of aetlvl-
There's a place for over a dozen freshmen and sophomores In man­
aging the track team this, spring. It would be) a good Idea for the fra* 
ternltiee with an eye out for the future to put good men into these 
jobs as soon as the opportunity Is proffered.
THE ELECTIONS OP THE FOOTBALL captain and manager tor nest
have not taken place, but they will probably be conducted at the 
nest meeting of the Athletic Council. In following the policy- of the 
last few years co-captains and co-managers may be elected, Trbovlch 
ud Tevebus the former, and Schmidt and Marino the latter.
THE PLEBE BASKETBALLERS WILL HAVE what wlil probably 
be their best game this coming Friday night In the Carnegie gymna- 
lium. The Penn State frosh will Invade the courts, and although there 
Hilt be no varsity game the same evening, It will be a show worth see­
ing inasmuch, as the visitors are noted for their-outstanding class. 
The activity belgina at eight bells:
and in Skibos about ciBlvely defeated
With favorable conditions^ the Tartans should be able to re­peat with little .effort tonight and get set for the tougher games to -line.
Skibos Meet Penn State The second encounter of the I week will be with the Penn State
inally scheduled for the 22nd, has been shifted to Ibe 23rd to replace the Bucknell fracas . which has been, dropped from the schedule since Bucknell left the Eastern in­tercollegiate . Basketball Confer- The Penn State floor squad
Women’s Athletics.
MARGIE GREEN
If I remember correctly (skip Ms if I’m wrong), there used to be.such.a thing as.anactive. W,. A.. A. on dear old Carnegie campus. But that was many years ago, be­fore we all became gray-haired and •eelile over Lhat most fascinating ot all school activities—final ex­ams. Oh well, if we can but pull through these trying times of re- exams, schedule adjustments, and lai-Dook marketing—we still have our eccond childhood to look for­ward to. in that case, anything n’iBht happen, r(í might even begin 
d8«'? 30nie of t-h« frivolities of our jotiin, eay, for/instance, baaket-
about u. After all, the intramural wjrnament takes place during the Jifst week of next month (not very lar away, ie it?>; yet the various 
Siio tearas are still composed 9it r of a congenial mixture of cJas°Ga>- -NaturAlly, there.
iw <«eal teanj work, and I am sure injv ,Ty® should divide o.urselves • ^dividual class teams. .• and 52ff a l> ractice game1 right now— *«i. we might, just as likely as 
Rn l,Pa»ss tIie ball to the opponents,. k0o . 3ed would-we be trying ,to 
o*nP *” ,mind W wio were- our wwc<i'Pftyer9- -And by.the way, o. :1 ®l>°ut those captain'elections? 
0Deeilhe il'eshmen are the only sm, • °- haye come through with bie .«eclslona- Let's all make'a ihi* to turn., out for practice and attend' to-these lit- eim^k 8‘ for-we'may as well ulav » seasofi-. with' a - good dis- tlmft'c,0 ,clas8 spirit,, just Cor old Oute> ** Mr no other-reason. Mas«h ';arsRy rlUefa competed with ^cliusetts State -College, and tbL I!i.ver8ities-.-of; Nebraska, Ne-
Boxers on Double;
Primed for First
In an. effort to round his squad into shape Cor the meet at Wash* Jeff on Wednesday, boxing coach Ernie Sesto has been working overtime," 'ititfudme • awork-out-on- Sunday afternoon. Although he
probably be the favorlt« this fracas by a small ni cidentnlly, the Tartan are playing the State plebes in the gym on Friday night and this is probably the best game on the Tar­tan plebo schedule, the Nlttany frosh having shown plenty of class so far this season.
Owls Await Retui 
rom State College,>n to Philadelphiatple Owls on thei. ..............In the previous encounter, the Tar­tans sprang a surprise by upsetting the Broad Street boy3 27-18 after being picked for almost certain de- The Owls will now be set ’or vengeance on ihelr .own floor _ mcl tlie Scots wiU have to put up the State College floor this Ia vallanl battle to repeat their — 1 previous success.
After the eastern trip' the Plaid returns to meet its city rival*, Pitt and Duqucsne. Little need be said about these two games, both teams being recognized as among the ‘ ongest in the country. The Skibos should be well rested and quite, ready for- both games and. with proper priming, should gJa fine ex*-'1-“'- ...............against U I opponents,
Carnegie Swimmers Victors Over 
Case, Slippery Rock and Manhattan
- In the past two weeks,,Lhe Skib'o
three meets out of three starts against Case School of Cleveland, Slippery Rock Teachers’ College and Manhattan College of New York.
The Case School had a rather formidable outfit and a record of nine consecutive wins when en­countering .the Skibos, However, the Scots, remembering last year's defeat, took advantage of their Qortuaitles and came through Ine style to take the Clevelanders nto camp to the tune of 41-34. The Tartans took first places in th< 200-yard relay, the fifty freestyle, the diving and ths century and took every second place but two the meet in hand.Plebes defeated the Schenloy squad at the same time to the tune of 45-35 to make It an all-around vie-
The meet • with Slippery Hock as something ot a breather t<
Skibos Are 
Twice Losers; 
Winners Once
Upset by Geneva Squad: 
Win Over Jackets 
Uninspired
Carnegie':retunSaturday night against Wayed to finish in the win ittmn only once. A loss to the ong West Virginia five was not much of a sucpvlse, but the 44-34 »re of the ganfe with Geneva was definitely an upset. The Tartans ;ook the Geneva lads into camp on Moor by a one point mar- n the Iasi game dropped ehind to gain enough in the last quarter rally.Saturday night’s game was at best a rather uninspired contest.'
gin, but
rd manner vmtil at the half i score was 16-9.
The second half was much mo interesting from the spectntoi standpoint. The Plaid wasted lit­tle time in evening the score the start of the second period, several tosses tied ihe score a 1C. From then on a three point lead w. tho best either could do. For the rest of the half it was nip and tuck, with Carnegie on top at the flnul whistle. Babe Fait turned (it a well-rounded perform- anuce on Saturday. He led .the scoring with seven points mid played a steady game on the court und under the basket.
Andy Kritscher comes In Tor a round of applause Cor his peppy game for tho short time that he was in. While the husky sopho­more was handling the pivot, iuuch less fumbling went on in the cir­cle. He was, Incidentally, the next high scorer, with five points. Hugh 
center,Jame:
r although he was controlling the ' • •• ;ame> tll0 
i to grab: in the f
it quickly enough.
Saturday's game could hardly bo called good basketball, u w* 
mad scramble. Consistently tho boys gained possession of the ball only to heave it out of hounds in au attempt to pass tiio length of the floor.
TheGeneva game was t the half. The 1MD of Geneva kept thehalf interesting. ..................
Hie first nine points'tuilied by tiie Skibos. His offorts kept Carnegie In tiie game until his bud kuee be­gan bothering him again. His to­tal of 12 pblnts was enough to lead Caplnln Ted R!ggInterest In the
Die swas the center last period. II eleven points. Geneva broke uway in the third quarter and dropped in
Gene’lack of defense.
At West Virginia the stow was different. Stydnhar,
Tartan Rifle Team 
Loses to Middies
During tho past two weeks while most thoughts were of final exam­inations and registration, Carne­gie's rifle teams found time to en- ’ ' The Plaid/¦JnivOT” icoiid '(ossfve,postal core tvas 1,385 to 1,351.
This past week-end the Tech.yed down to Annapolis
the top^of a 1,392 to' 1.3G3 score.
Tho Tartan women's team turned perfect 000 score aguinst thè.versity- Washington teáiuwhich did not submit their that postal telegraph match. 
Next week the Carnegie varsity’ will compete in tiio 3rd Corps Area match for memljors of college-
Coach Rlsedorph gave every- the squad an opportunity to swim in this encounter to give the experience r.nd everyone s through in fine style to in- the victory.
Last Saturday the Tartans
they 
D 42-29 vic- second in •yard freestyle, being nosed
balanced Scotch splashed their tory.Holiday scored _ _ 3-yard freestyle, out by Capt. Murray of the visitqiVonderLancken and Leavitt scored first and second In the fifty while Heatley and Bright registered the
Teda i* • neorasKa, werlast L ,nsafl, and ' Illinois all- of tre »I • The'flve ¡highest scor- ton -Are; Chancellor—100. Hal*te BIA00- ’ Shultz—100, •: Wettach— 
8«» 56rr°tt—S9, averaging 498.? fTPBhiDMi .;prodr Pi«C vj—^sted-1 witVthefcDnlverslty .
I -that-
Atlas. Both Krintzman and Beall are to box at 125; Tayton and Wil­son fight at -145.: Bill Itulecz, cap­tain, is in his regular position a' 155 pounds, and Ely draws the 165 poslUdn over Forsythe. Boyd,-,at 17b‘,' cbmj)tet6B''lhe-T08 ter.--• •Coach Sesto iptends to en of his extra boys that he ca opponents for. Hfs theory I In this way he can give them an experience and discover any talent which he has overlooked. .He.ex­pects to' urge adoption of this pol­icy at the meeting ot the district boxing coaches.The .meet at Washington looks like a close one with Carnegie a. slight-favorite. •••“If- tftey’j'e . on they’ll win," says the coach, and that’s about the way it lines up,, Last, year the W. and J. team came i here for the meet apd some of the.l sophomores of" this year's team I saw action against the visiting squad and did very well.
after gaining an-early lead. Holi-
Intramuralities To 
ResumeHoopWars
I n c 1 i g i b ility Expected to 
Weaken Present Leaders
With finals and registration 'un­der the bridge, Jntramural basket­ball once more will occupy the time and effort of the various fraternity, dormitory, and class basketball enthusiasts. Some teams will be noticeably weakened as a result of failures in the recent examina­tions, while on the other hand a few squads will be improved by the "return oC-aome stacs '.wbo.liaye finally escaped from the clutches of 
Ineligibility. ' •
As the teams go Into their sec­ond month of play. McGill Hall leads the Americas League, unde­feated; Theta Xi reigns supreme in the National League, and ac­cording to the more reliable opin­ions, looks like the best bet to cop the championship; fn the Federal League, Delta Tau Delta arid Kappa Sigma -- *tiou, as Played ifew weeks ago.,- This tie
were the ooly /’possibles” (mean­ing scorers of 100), while Rowland was the first of the group to achieve the mark Just last week. I hope everyone saw the team s picture In the Pittsburgh Press last week,. It rqallyt made an-, impressive show- ingjfor.oMr.AlmaiMateV.-.as.well.aafoeSergeM^Som:*
hâve completed thelr^ açhedüles.
The scheduled: gëmesîfor tbls week are as' follow.s: ^-American League: Beta Thêta. PI *vs.; Alpha Tau Oméga;. Boss Hall .ve. Delta Upsilon.
National League: Thêta XI vs. Beta sigma Rho: Sigma Nu vs. Pht Kappa. -
Fédéral League: Delta TauDelta vs. Phi. Psi Club:. Alpha Sig- Tna Phi va. Kappa Delta Rho;>Phi | Sigma Kappa Vs Pki J^l Club

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1935
Writers’ Row
Sporti E 
: UCEA E
SPOHTS STAFF:
¿utnlftt tpaww, j­R cappel, Alexander Layton, K*llh McCut
CIRCULATION STAFF:
...WILLIAM LAND3DEBG__JULIAN F. MUNSTEB___________BOT MINET______HAB OLD J. BAEB______JEROME HANSON___HABGABET G BIFFINDUDLEY D. PENDLETON
III
A More Considerate Schedule
Students “burning the midnight oil" 
studying for all important final examina­
tions coming the very day after the semester 
closes, generally take time OH to'wonder . . . 
is It absolutely essential that they be rushed 
Into; finals without'at least one day’s respite 
to make ready for them?
. Students rushing back to school from all 
parts of the country to make classes on Jan­
uary 2, ponder how willingly they would have 
started their Christmas recess a day or two 
Mater if they would sot have been required to 
travel on New Year’s'Day.
,/ Twice a year students, at Carnegie must 
plunge without any interval from the last 
day of classes to the, first day of examln- 
• atione. The last few days’of classes always 
entail & certain amount of last minute prcpa- 
. ration of laboratory reports or term papers 
,Vahd tlie like, while the week of examinations 
of necessity demands a certain amount of 
^„preliminary work. Obviously a brief Interval, 
'• If It were only a day or two, between the last 
.day of classes and llret day of examinations 
/.' would be found both welcome and profitable 
by the majority of students. The required 
number of school days could be made up In 
-- the fall and spring, for few can object to 
having the long summer vacation shortened 
by three or four’ days.
Some people would also have several days 
. free between the last examination and regls- 
¦ tratlon for the second semester, but this is 
by no means as essential as the changes men­
tioned above. s
. Other colleges have so arranged their cal- 
endar as to solve satisfactorily all of these 
’difficulties, and we 6ee no reason why the ad­
ministration . at Carnegie cannot adopt in its 
: calendar for next year these very alight but 
;desirable changes. Although they may seem 
relatively small matters, we feel they are of 
• sufficient Importance here to be brought to the 
attention of the "powers that be/'
Youth Speaks Up
That a policy of a "navy and air force'* 
second to none will not Insure peace for the 
U.S.
That armament and munition industries 
" should 'be government controlled.
That all capital should be conscripted In 
. tíme of war. (
• That the U. S. should remain out of the. 
. League of Nations.
; "He declares:
Thát he will bear arms if the borders- of
v-.-tho Uv S. are- invaded. • .......
That he will not bear arms If the U. S. In* 
vades the borders of another country.
¿-¿•. The Association of College Editors’ Peace 
r Poll was the first attempt to mass together 
tie opinions of.tlie college student. Although 
>'onIy approximately ' 25 per cent óf' thè ballots 
. were returned, we may safely presume that 
that percentage 1R sufficient to indicate the 
, ; trend. of thought on the campus.
Undergraduate opinion has been crystallized.
- It urges the administration to disregard the 
. coaxings of Hearat and his followers concern­
ing militaristic policies.
. • It asks for action In the matter of arma- 
ment and munitions Industries.
. By a very slim margin It adheres the gov- 
-, eminent- to maintain Its present policy as re­
gards the League, 
v Youth, has spoken out.
' 'Will Its voice have any effect? Echoed and 
v. re-echoed through editorial columns and the 
pages of the nation's press, wilt It finally 
fierce Washing nc a-d make some dent 
the policies of the aarainistratlon?
Tbac.-of c«srs«.--ceanot • b«-answcred-y«t: 
President Roosevelt once said In one of his 
¦- radio talks that If the New Deal bad done 
-.-more tban gather the people to concern them* 
’.¿selves with how the government was being 
'run.- lt would have been worth while.
¿¿.-And If this poll has done nò more than 
•make the student think, it, too, will have 
:é'se^ved Its purpose. The Important thing is 
^thftt-THE UNDERGRADUATE THINKS.
«--course'-; Introductory to government service 
'i'Hert''fall. The course:Is designed for those 
preparing for public administration and bust- 
Hor ror administrative positions in the 
agencies concerned with public welfare.
,|tfASSACHUSETT Institute of Technol- C amp ogy has established an Intensive summer 
> ‘ppune In pjiblic service administration, do* 
^^rep^coH6ge,pti^egtr aii^ grad-
QUESTIONNAIRE
One encouraging psychological effect of 
the present economic situation is the 
growth of a mental 'tone of seriousness. 
The most weighty and profound utter­
ances can find an enthusiastic audience 
today; l>efore 192D, however, the dilettante, 
rather -than the exhorter, represented the 
typical moo'd! Traditionally the" most“ 
esoteric thought has been philosophy; the 
attempt to answer the questions what and 
why in- relation to man's destiny has al­
ways carried with It an air of mysticism. 
Philosophy was highbrow; but today this 
false conception, probably resulting from 
the attitude of professional' savants, Is on 
the wane.
Philosophy is, after all, the most natural 
of Intellectual pursuits. Granted the sails- 
faction of material desires, (and I include in this category a measure of aesthetic ‘ gratification) man will inevitably turn to the consideration of the fundamental axioms of life. The nature of life- aDd death, the constitution of the external
justification for our answers.
Unquestionably the most potent
fore man a system of approach to bis basic questions? Certainly every creed has proposed a general solution regarding * i place In the world, usually by the
slon the broades Religion, at least in the modern western world, proposes a system of social and ethical conduct controlling the world of and yet another code governing the
deniable. The social and economic forces which have developed modem society, especially the growth of the scientific out-
In religion alone there does not lie a sat­isfactory philosophy. It is not the purpose oi this paper to deny the existence of per­sons who possess the rare ability to visu­alize the wider view of tlie world which religion offers; nor can any mundane i
the objective existence of Deity and the reality or His revelation. It is sufficient to point out that the great majority of us separate what religious doctrines we do hold from their • widest implications, and, in so doing, feel the .necessity of calling on other sources than theology lo satisfy our problems.
The pedantic appronch lo thé philosophy of life lends through devious paths. .What­ever we learn of our surroundings, what-
our observations. Thus the truth rabout the universe outside our minds has quite normally become the subject for study in the branch of philosophy calted by the specialists, eplstemology.. .The result of this pufsult of the real through our ephe-
of an objective world, and then proceeeds
that the entire universe, from the i
minds alone does thlB wretched earth and glorious cosmos, exist! Only two' classes of persons Question the sense Of the world outside our minds; one of these' we call Insane, the other, phlloso* phers. The Intuitive sense of reality we all must feel, the natural relationship- of.
by. the Idealists. They postulate some con* sciousness, some intellectual entity, and thence deduce the manifold world outside. Modern physics has become so powerful experimentally that the theorists find themselves lost; their laws become statis­tical rather thau absolute. The solution of these difficulties, notably the fat
physicists like Jeans, ' unable.
- Irreproachable, but
.who. has conceived., fhe uiuv . thought In the mind of:a Great Mathemati­cian, has exemplified the present crisis.
One finds It difficult to accept the view that human mind alone exists, that the table we write on Is merely a postulate on the basis ot our aense-data, and that in our 'absence It may not exist If this is phll-
and complete philosophy which confronts
rialist liolds that all around us exists real and substantial world, operating ac­cording to an existence scheme. Our minds, our consciousness, are inseparable products of this objective world, formed . of its stuff, .and evolved according to
logs of this universe In which he finds himself; his science is correct exactly as far as It agrees with and predicts the be­havior and structure ot this objective * world. His mind is a portion of this world and Is conditioned in Its operation by the material organism of which it is a part and by the special environment in which It e
world about us, to which we belong, and !n which we forever stay. Insofar as we i external conditions, we may
ance with the demonstrable laws of the physical world. This Is materialism; it holds the attractiveness of being sound, acceptable, and pragmatic in the essen­tials of Its creed. " .........'
Thl advocate of any particular school, whether in philosophy or painting, attains the unenviable reputation. of being a ape- • clal;'pleader,. a teller of half-truths. I have - no' desire to proselytise for materialism:, my sincere, opinion is thatltslntrinslclogic. can compjetcntlr ipe^k; for ; Itself.v1 My^obr.ij
A. C. E. Horizon
A'PROFESSOR PROBES PUBLIC OPINION
By Edward Price Bell ^
(Mr. Bell, distinguished journalist and Euro- 
>ean correspondent during tlie War, is in Eu- 
vi>e now. interviewing statesmen and heads 
>f governments. The Association of College 
Editors arranged for Mr. Bell to write a series 
of articles dealing with the part that college 
faculties and undergraduates are playing in 
European affairs. His interview with Profes- 
r Gilbert Murray is the first of these articles 
itten exclusively for A.C.E.)
'Our Peace Ballot has awakened astonish­
ing interest throughout Great Britain', and 
ery promise of a complete clarification 
of the thought of this country on what we ré­
important political question 
In the world."
The speaker was a rather slight, trim-look- 
g, high-browed, keen-eyed, affable man ot 
the study. Great Britain's foremost scholar 
in politics. Professor Gilbert Murray, of Ox- 
d, Chairman of the League of Nations
Professor sat in his chair at the headquarters the Union In London, surrounded by a scene of gTeat activity, men and women almost fe- ¦ lily busy with the many features of’the
>ntlnued the Professor. “It ' was i be sure, that we all preferred peace ejected utterly, as a nation, the doc­trine that war Is good for people. We are not asking our citizens the absurd question whether they favor peace. But a number of ther relevant things were far from clear, so ar from clear, indeed, a6 to be diametrically In dispute.
For example, nobody could say with au­thority what the country really felt and thought about our obligations! under the int of the League, especially the obli­gation to fight for peace. If necessary. Emi- porsons averred that we were bound by ur obligations, eminent persons averred that we were bound by none of them, that we 3 free to act as we might elect. The same true of Locarno. Some asserted that Lo- io bound us, and some asserted that it did
able stale of uncertainty. How could foreign oations estimate their defensive situation. If they could not be sure whether Great Britain
i direction of the old sysLem of armed group hostility and Inescapable war.
'We liked none of it—we of the League of
patriotism, and great public authority ip
respecting 'British sentiment and opinion touching peace and how to maintain It. .Trtie Peace Ballot was the result. It isolates- the questions at issue, separates them from elec­tion excitements and distractions, gives them
llness” on the part of-the: National Govern­ment in England to what the League of Na­tions Union is .trying to do?
"Its most solemn public expressions com­mit It to our alms. We are doing what? Back­ing the League of Nations. Note these words in the latest King's speech: 'The mainten­ance of world peace does not cease to give
extension of the authority of the League of
.Conference, and for international agreement on such matters as are capable of separate treatment.’ • The Government Is on record In fajror of the abolition of military and naval aircraft, - and . for ‘the effective supervision of civil aviation to prevent its misuse for mili­tary purposes.’> It also ,has declared for the International control of trade In arms and mu­nitions. As'regards sanctions to restrain an aggressor, they are, of course, obligatory un­der tM Covenant, an.d Mr. Baldwin has said: ‘What Great Britain has signed she will ad­here to.’ However, It is recognized that coer­cion. is_jiot. invariably feasible: that. to. try. It, in some circumstances,'would lead but to a difficult and inconclusive war. In such a- case no responsible statesman would advocate. It" 
Is the national vote, so far as It has been taken, as largely favorable to sanctions as to
On Other 
Campuses
STUDENTS FORM PROGRESSIVE 
PARTY
University of Minnesota (MCEA)
—A I; thr<i the
it,-for the League. The vote for
able number of citizens who believe In the unabated peaceable activity of the League are doubtful of its power to serve peace by apply­ing either economic or military ' penalties. These voters appear to think that only war can react to wav. Theli* confidence In the League rests upon Its patient Inquiry into facts, its strict Impartiality. Its vigor, persistence,- and collective persuasiveness In the' search for
Your last word to the world on this sub­ject of peace?
¦“it-Is- iHSvltcU-itt all-I-have-teen'Gaylag :- Let the men and women, the young, and the old, of every country and every civilization more thought, energy, and money
vigilance, courage, method, and action
Surely,11 ourselves and o we be so niggardly in < . jendltures for peace?!1
predate merit from whatever source, I of­fer as the. wisest of quotations:
“So I wasn’t dreaming, after all," «lie said to herself, "unless — unless we're all part of the same dream. Only . I do hope.It's my dream, and not the . Red King’s! I don't like, belonging to another person’s dream—”. Alice was certainty becoming a material* (at too!— mUP SIOKQIBON
campus political arena last week 
when the formation of the Pro­
gressive Party was announced. 
The new party challenges existing 
political machines and calls for un 
extension of student government 
ra to insure 'democratic con­trol.
The platform of the Progressives divided into three parts, each dealing with a specific aspect of student political life. The now party proposes the addition of a student, with the right to vote, to the Board of Regents, and advo-
of compulsoiIn opposition to Major Potts, proposed a new $700,001» ¦y for tho military depart­ment, the Progressives favor tlie further appropriations of funds 'for the extension of academic acilitles of this university, rather han for the expansion of campus
BULLETIN DEMANDS SUBSI­DIZED FOOTBALL 
New York University (MCEA)— :olumn editorial running
ized, and subsidized foolball for ew York University.
Pointing to a standing deficit of
....... ' ' ndsne Of. $25,000 lor 1935-36 fiscal year, The Bulle- explalned that such deficits are »red by loans from banks to the Board of Athletic Control.
in the event that the -Board fails lo make good these loans, The Bulletin’s editorial maintained, the University must redeem thi loan and the interest charges. This would mean, the editorial empha­sized, the expenditure of University runds, ordinarily used for academic purposes.
The editorial denied tin Board could pay off these debts by Its own efforts. “We hopo we ma: be pardoned fov rudeness,’’ 1 
i ho\ 
ig aiootball teams continue to be as rank as they have been for the past three years ... As long a: our foolball teams retain thei: holy virgin amateur purity, deficits are Inevitable 
"We as students will not tolerate of general University funds
football teams. *We refui done the ' squandering of scholar­ship' and library money In thii way ...
"All for a purely amateur team What virtue! And what a price t< pay for It!”
The editorial ended with a de mand for the pre-1931 standards of semi. - professionalized, big • time, commercialized football In order to pay off the deficits and the debts honestly.
charge of being embalmed In acad­emic cotton-wool cannot be levelled against the faculty at Temple Uni­versity, Philadelphia, for this month's “Owl,” the.humor publica­tion, Is entirely a pedagogical crea­tion.
President Charles E- Baury drop­ped administrative cares to become honorary editor-in-chitf of th sue.. Usually staid professors doll their aloofness to hurl bouquets and brickbats in fiction and satire.
Bretzels . . ;!
: Und ‘ iotowrlck. brot, shufli pie, pigs knucklos, und maybe a little schnapps.
Only those faculty members wh< completely forget their English
written in up-state language, lias been mailed to all the guests.
' Any guest what lapses into Eng* llsti' will be “fined," declared the host
Syracuse University—(MCEA)— 
Latest tabulations of the A. C. E. Lltterary Digest poll, show that 1,303 Syracuse students belies that the'United States can stay out of another war, while 633
light; 417 claim they would take up arms. If tho United States were to invade a foreign countr.. only 196 Syracusans would take • i,7\}6"are'opposed helping In a foreign conquest.
NATIONALISM WILL STRANGLE TRADE
University of Minnesota— (MCEA)—Robert Lincoln O’Brien, chairman of the United States tariff commission, told - a Unlver-
nationalism existing today In mos.t all cbmmcrcial nations will slowly strangle America’s foreign trade If steps are not taken counteract it. Citing examples
Czechoslavakia where American imports-arc'taxed- as highly- at per cent, th<3 speaker expressed the opinion that the frantic struggle
aftermath of the. great war. thermore, “these - foreign nations in..their policy of economic Isola­tion -. had the example; ot the
On Second 
Thought
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
a corner of eastern Africa on of! from the Red Sea by coastal Italian Eritrea and from the Culr of Aden and the Indian Ocen bv French, British and Italian Sou. malilands lies Abyssinia whose re. cent scraps with Italian troong over the position of boundarylines have at- __tracted more than ordinary
THE JUNIOR PROM (to everyone's surprise) turnod out to 
be quite a social success, and I think the budget about balanced 
. . . the hand-picked orchestra weren’t so bad either , . . the 
Dumbskulls and the Dragnets bad private rooms (the former 
were tossed out of theirs and the latter hud a punch bowl) . .
boy, I like punch! . . . don't you, Tommy?
THE ARTS BALL was a beautiful success as far as costumes 
were concerned, but I’m getting tired of these toss-up bands 
. . . the Post-Arts Ball, by the way, was a beautiful pheelopp.
. THOUGHTS WHILE DANCING ... Doc Peyton has • 
changed remarkably iliese last few years . . . Decorations most 
striking . . . Who are all the photographers?—we thought the 
press was barred . . . Crocker and Derdeyn doing a Lindy hop? 
... McCleary wearing a new version of a ten gallon hat . . *. 
Bill Johnson wearing an electrical display . . . Draperies are 
just the right distance from the walls . . . Swell floor show, but 
where did Dozer get the double who was standing about one foot 
to his right and two or three feet above him? . . Binnie Both-
well deserves costume prize . . . Marxes also very clever . . . 
McNaughton superb in Batin negligee . ... Miss Green bobbing 
- in time to music ... I wonder what mechanism the designers 
use to make these decorations revolve.
Aftermath . . . what a swell feed at the Bartlett avenue 
residence of one of senior class’s most promising architects . . . 
What Arts school activity girl, forgetting her room key, slept 
under towels in a dormitory tub? . . .- How the hell do you re­
move this grease-paint? . . : Boy, this bed feels good.
THE WIZE KRECK of the evening we credit to P. Snyder, a 
card and a gentleman ... to wit: “There Is no god but Allah, 
and Mohammed is his stooge.”
ONE* OP LIFE'S DARK MOMENTS . . . Nine-thirty at the 
Arts Ball—no orchestra. Committee heads jjoor pacing—as the 
seconds tick away . . . Allah, have mercy!
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
vlth mountain ranges whose higher peaks are cappe>] 
This is the kingdom
direct descendant or King Solo- non and the Queen of Sheba, t'bich for Mussolini would make l nice “right of way” between his talian Soumallland and Eritrea, ¡order Skirmishes Cause Troubt« The present trouble began when uncontrollable border tribesmen attacked “cocky colonial troops;1 bringing from -Italy a demand for apologies, payment of an Indem­nity and military honors to the Italian Sag. To date no reply has been had from Addis Ababa, Uie headquarters of his maj.esty, Selas* si, and it Is rumored that as many as 300,000 Abyssinian warriors are massed ne'ar the borders. 11 Duco has not been Idle either and more (ban 250,000 Italians are now on their way to the scene of trouble. Despite all these preparatloos, it is rumored in official circles that there will be no real war t least two months, the extent of the African rainy season which is just setting in.
.Abyssinia's first contact with Italy came in 1870 when a porl ' the southern entrance of tho Red Sea was bought from the local sultan by an Italian company and after more land was acquired WQ9 sold to the Italian government in 1692. Abyssinian rulers began to chafe when Italy began to occupy more territory and In 1685 took r the Egpytian port Massawa which Abysslni^ns had free ac- 9 by an agreement The acqulstlon of this port gave
In which 400 of his SOO i killed. A detachment of. 20,000 the motherland arrived too punish Abysslnlans
the port.
The “Abyssinian Affair” 
i 1896 Italian commanders, be­coming bold, pushed too far soulli rere surprised to find them- face to face with a huge army led by Ring Menellk. In tbe battle that followed the Italian troops were dealt a crushing blov. losing nearly 8,000 men.' This de­feat, known as the "Abyssinian af­fair,” resulted In a treaty in which
Rawed by a Pudqy Wudqy?
When trapped by 
a Mushy Mamma . . , don’t give way to dark 
despair. Count ten and light a sunny-smooth 
Old Gold.,/ Its fragrant fumes will enchant' 
the matron’s senses . . . while you slip^spryly 
from her arms. Darn clever . . . these-O.Gs!
(AX TRYING TIMES . k. TRY A S/nootA OLD GOID
-----------------=----------- V a

---------------------------------------------------

>T -------1 , 11 111
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1935
pwsi^jgOKING GLASS“Above Cayuga’s Waters”
Tlie Fleet is in! Navy, by be- 
niins spring's iorenioet color, 
9 turned the fashion world topsy- 
rvv. Navy dresses! Navy 
its! Navy accessories! YOU 
II do a HIghland fling when you 
e (be scotch taffeta sheer, dress- 
with gay jackets • converting 
into suits. The Navy taffeta 
Jts Will raise you to Ihe very 
Light ot cMc-tliese Pevparap' 
pere cc 
legencj
loads i'
: in all styles, tyroliau, 
sailor, off-the-face und 
•e. Navy is also bringing 
bluest season in shoes on its 
• the seamless pump, the eye- 
tie, and the strap are io navy 
r full speed ahead! Nnvy hos 
roluliouized the stockiug 
Honest—there are really 
foer navy hose on sale witu rices anchored to the bottom, hue a lip—Join the NAVY brig­ade, and let tne world see you!
The INTERFRATERNiTY... for­
mal 16 on its way, and we know that iuU want to be your best .•DriDg lormal. Advance showings -oiton evening gowns first everywhere. An especially
:1 in the I simplicity, lïüllness gatuereü
A. perfect accessory t
with the tlie main skirt 
baii'sash which mukes tho Tbe color scbeme
with
described above iniog bracelet.. It is made ree strands of milky white ciusped together cr clasp or red g > following the s; a aazziing rnmestouu
36 as bow our- last week* uid went over with, a' bung, :iued lliai perhaps we would unie and paper to tlie same lu3 wteK. inquiries have nio this desk concerning llit Kind of cream to use ioi rieaosiug and powder base. Tb<
questions. Pond'310 be ihe favorite for cleans- _nd Woodbury carries the vote for powder base. Here is a littleapplication- o£ a powder It you use'a liquid-base; be give the liquid time to pene- ic skin beiore clogging me 
rilh powder.
’ie Hie top, . you'j 
TWiNSTEIl SWEATER!" Aud ci. The iwinflters are levs, but each is adapt­or by itself. The un- may be bad in either il sleeves, with your it or boucle. The ator is a sleeveless [jumper cifcct, in a contrasting col- be had in blue |md yellow, turquoise and ¡ige and red, or yellow aud brown. 
A sport costume is tbe most per- cl ensemble Tor the campus. .Let 
— give you a sketch of ¦opriate (accordiug to us) for the :ollcge girl lo wear. To bt-ginDistinctive is the beige .asluncrc with four large brown a side pocket, and
Cornell Sees Carnegie's 
Dream in Student 
Union Building
To the Women Students of Carnegie:Ithaca, at tbe head of Cnvuga Lake, is in the heart or the Finger Lakes region of Central New York. The surrounding country is famed
have cut deep gorges ... _______banks, and from the campus one- can see the blue waters ofi.Cay.uga and to the east, south and west great rolling hills.
Cornell University . was founded on an act passed by Congress In 1862—tbe Land Grant Act. The particularly generous endowment which we received was due to theIsdom and good will of Ezra Cor-
: had many benefactors who left generous endowments. Today
countries.
Cornell women live a greatly varied life. For the' most part,’ thoy are sincerely interested in academic work, but over the week­end this Is forgotten and social ac­tivities hold first place. There are always a great number of dance6— Syracuse week-end - they number*
Dramatic Club presentation and forth, throughout tbe year, three “big" celebrations co: Dartmouth week-end, Junior Prom week-end, and Spring week-end when the Navy Day Ball, the Spring Day CircuB, and the Cayuga Regatta are held.
House parLies are held through­out the year, although an effort is being made by the Men's Student Council and the Women’s Self-Gov­ernment Association to concen* Irate them into four or five week­ends. * Incidentally, fraternities
thirty years ago Cornell men did resent the admittance of women, but that resentment has diminish­ed to a great extent and today
1 As a contrast to the ptige skin, we chose the blue with short puffed sleeves, i |ud liuge brown wooden buttons all f down the. front of the ft'eater. Over this, we chose the 
mannish sport jacket. Ia pmc plaid, the jacket is form-fitting.•riK ....Q 1)leatg and a beli Jn th(?
. . nd finished with lapels andK ’’"Hons. The neweBt in sport are tho champagne shade .. - in suede, chamois, or kid.‘»erictt with this costume is the whs brimmed hat of soft brown 
liH f1’01 *ootivcns\ this ensemble (ana for a semi-sport shoe, such as |; e sharkskin wilh a leather tip and j£|, « side buckle, and- a cuban
Tlie womei
there
iien drivers liaveNat last thclv own! Fashion has , -- - iiit new icc-y-i-lnfs ‘be de-Meneu . for the smart ladies—aud [ re they are. Of chromium, these 68 come in an assortment of col- [¦ Imagine the chic miss-wear- 
• c *^-v'r‘nS to match the color of
»Is. the next time you have 
lr ,iail' done, ask for the super* *onal:iy wave! The liair is part- l. 1°n, 'lie side, with the.part run- r, ^ from tbe front to the extreme I*' The thin side of the hair hl 'a*c<1 a mass of curls, which r*nd also to the back. Tbe effect
^he Tartan will be glad to supply names of the shops where the e may be purchased. Please °n Friday afternoons or eve-
Carnegie Talent
Dominates Exhibit |
, ¦ Continued From Pag» 1 ---------
^ *l»ich has been exhibited at : exhibition in Pittsburgh
; samo prize twice i
Lfl* ^'?a.r a new division, the 
Webf lvision* has been Intro- n11^ was organized by Pro* Froderlc Clayter, Associate L « or af Painting ¿ad- Design.includes exhibits ot mu,.. —il, clay„ wood, glass,
Wd »-k,a,nd similar materials,- a 
the . Is very Promising but
houses on the ¦hill” who take the anti-coed stand. The growing cooperation and un­derstanding between the two stu­dent councils has a great deal to do with the breaking down of thi9 feeling, I am sure. Formerly, ihe two bodies were too proud of ihelr own integrity to work together campus questions.As tor women’s sports, Cornell offers the greatest variety; golf, li crosse, and canoeing on Lafc Beebe were recently • added
inter-sorority. But there Is much interest and spirit to be seen nt. even less important tourna-
' Then, too, there are the usual class' functions. ‘ with ' thé yearly picnics and banquets, and the Jun* Jor etrawbé’rry festival for the Sen­iors, the Sophomore May Day cele­bration for the Seniors, and the clasâ teas in tho Fall for the in« coming women. Class spirit strqng, particularly between the Scphomorcs and Freshmen, who compete in earnest for supremacy over each other. Of women's hon­orary societies that are open to students in all colleges, we have
and social gath­erings on the campus.. There are game rooms for both the
_ great many- oi tho danccs held, and the University Theater are also to be found here. The bi­weekly teas which, are held in
tage of this opportunity ' lax and chat with their frier This year the Women’s Sel: eminent Association, in collabora­tion with Mortar Board,-varied the Freshman Week program some­what, with a great measure of suc­cess. As is the custom, the House Economics Freshmen arrived four days before registration for spec­ial,.early instruction for their fac­ulty, while Freshmen in other col-, leges have not been permitted to arrive until the day before regis­tration. Being plunged into the Freshman Week whirl of activi­ties, including the beginning of rushing'and classes, they have al­ways found they were at a disad­vantage, knowing very little about the campus and having scarcely any time - in which to get settled and make friends. And so we In- -vit-ed the-veaien ohOnrso othos--col--
mittee functions Freshmen arrive in Ithaca. Each Junior is given charge of a Fresh- .man and helasJier.Jn thg_selectlqn. of her courses, in registration, in making social contacts, and lu countless other ways, her service being available throughout the
yeNaturally, I have not been able ... cover everything in this survey. But l hope that you- have-gotten Something of a general picture of our life here. In all of it, the tra­dition of democracy and liberalism is evident: and yet. should you visit our campus, you would find a certain, unity. and. order.' - Youre sincerely,
rresWtnt_
“Schnozzle” Diirante’s Private Life 
Is Revealed to Admiring Public
By Guy Halferty, Jr. . I"At last,” x am musing to myself I : I gaze absently at the floor ot I Jiumie ‘'Schnozzle” Duraute’s dress- backstage of tho Peon theater. “At last I behold a com­edian who is a comedian even when he doesn’t have to be. A real fel­low. A guy that doesn't need a gag man to keep hhn in wise cracks. At-last!”
Yes, people, Jimmie Durante is human. He grins, he swears, ho emokes, he tells jokes, aud jokes, and supplies information, advice, and anecdotes without waiting to he asked. To wit:
'’Clothes? Naw. i’ll wear any­thing. Anything. Boy, but I like polo shirts. Real ones. But don’t go making no polo player out of me. I can’t even ride & horse " Jimmie doesn’t like to talk about himself, contrary to popular opin­ion, so Manager Eddie volunteers some information. But Jimmie supplies wise cracks, and a stream of conversation. Poor Eddie doesn't get a chance to finish half of his re­marks. Schnozzle's conversation sounds something like this:
'- “Yeh.- oii hello Ihore. Very,glad to meetcha. Mr. Blah, this is Mr. Blah. Yeh. From the Blah Blah. And Mr. i-ferget-yer-name, this Is Mr. Blah Blah. Mr. Blah, and Mr. Blah. -Sit down fellas, .What’s on yer minds. If any? Ha, Ha. Pitts­burgh? I'll'say i likes Pittsburgh. Why shouldn’t-1 like it here? All my friends are here. They spoil mo. Oh hello—well, I’ll be a censored if it isn’t Joe ¡Hiller. Boys,
down beside me, Joe, and hold my hand. That’s the stufL Fellows, Joe and I were slde-klcks way back in blah blah blah. What’s that? I was bornlnlB93—February 18th. You’re getting old too, Joe. Well, at least
Cripes. Yeah, that’s why I i
when I com£s here. I’m afraid get- tin’ hoarse. See, last time. I was here I got hoarse. - Boy, 1 comes
And that is the way he chatters nil tbe time. I soon forget all about who he is. and why I am rhero. and listen to him rave just for
Jimmie and asked him for a bread. The child has a wonderful voice, aud Jimmie plans to give him his chance. He slipped the boy a dol-
home and bought himself some shoes. Wit’ leather, heels. And cleats.” Jimmie adds
riously.
Eddie tells us that Jimmie wan horn and raised on New York's East Sl£e. He has bad a great deal ot experience singing and clowning iu vaudeville and musical comedies. Jimmie, with Lou Jackson and Ed­die Clayton, comprised the old trio of Clayton, Jackson and Durante, which took New York by storm. Eddie Clayton Is now his manager, v/hile Jackson Is “dangling’' in .Wall Street. While in the trio, Jimm.Vwas noticed more and more by the public, but it was not until
old phonograph records that he made his debut in' tbe movies. In' “Roadhouse Nights.” Ho Is very fond of [Hollywood and the people He has bought his mothor
The Cllmas Club of Master Ma­sons will hold a dinner on Monday evening, February 25, in the Com- nions Annex.
Alumnae Give 
Seal to Club
Bronze Tablet is Placed 
In College Club Foyer
dedicated a bronze seal of Car­negie which will be hung in the foyer of the Pittsburgh College Club on Craig street.The placing of the 6eal took place following a luncheon at the club on February 6. Mrs. Fred­erick F. Roherer, president of tbe College. Club, In accepting the. bronze tablet, said: “Here theseal bearing tbe Scotch thistle and Andrew Carnegie's statement, 'My heart is in the work/ will be a permanent fixture.”
Nearly every room in the club has been dedicated by alumnae groups to their respective colleges
bers of the College Club.
Mr. and Mrs. John Cauffleld, Mr.
Anllker, Mr. and Mrs. Crtlc Mc-
Mr. and-Mrs. J. G. Schllcter,.Mr.
W. G. Myers, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Dean, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Warren K.
Medieval Costumes' Are Modified 
For High Academic Ceremonies
By Irving Gruber Do you know the significance of the various colors on academic tumes worn during commencement
Europe, acadomic costumes slat chiefly of caps, gowns, hoods that are used as outer gar­ments by students, holders frees, and officials in universities, colleges, and other Institutions ot learning.
The noticeable feature is the long, full, flowing gown or Tobe, which seems to have been inherited from the • twelfth eud> thirteenth centuries. Flowing robes dignified dress of the time9, and
the university body have persisted with mollifications down to the present. Tho cold buildings or medieval times required capes and hoods for warmth. The cap re­placed the hood for the head and the cape with hoo«i was modified into the present hood, which by colors, trimming, and linings be­comes perhaps mo9t noticeable in British and American colleges.
Gowns Uniform In U. S.Unlike European countries, the United States has ft unlfornl sys* tem of degree identification by gown colors, adaptable to each in­stitution, and differing only in the ‘'college colors which line the hoods. The statute for on Intercolleglato System of Academic Costume was drawn by n commission proposed by Princeton in 1S93, to which loading universities and collegos were invited to seud members.After a study of the European system, the statute, as prepared by
adopted by a considerable
since been taken up so generally
gie hoods are lined, of course, plaid. The hood is trimmed with velvet of tbe color that represents
_______-____________ Purpl«
_________.01 lv
P«dnsoirr-------------------Light BlueGonunerco and AccounUnj:_______Drab
Colors Are Significant
The-colors selected for the dif­ferent degrees are historic and ap­propriate and easily remembered. The white for arts and letters comes from the white fur of Oxford and Cambridge B. A. hoods; tbe red for theology follows the tradi­tional color of the church as sig­nifying ardent love and zeal for tbe faith as used by cardinals for centuries. The purple for law comes from the royal pur^e of the king’s courts; the green ot medi­cine from the elripe in the army surgeon’s uniform and originally from the color of medicinal herbs.
The degrees In philosophy are shown by blue, the color of truth and wisdom; science, gold yellow which blgniaes tbe, wealth con­tributed by sclent^ discoveries. Pink was taken from the pink bro­cade prescribed for the Oxford doc­tors of music; olive allied to green was selected by pharmacy so close­ly allied to medicine, while rusBet was takon from the jolly old Eng­lish foresters who wore It in the they- quaffed their brown
M. M. Alumnae 
Sponsor Bridge
Proceeds to be Distributed 
As Scholarship Grants
Invitations have been 6ent out- 
for the annual Scholarship Bridge 
sponsored by the Margaret Horri« son Aluimine Association which will be held this year on Satur* - 
day afternoon, March 2, from ty/o 
until five o'clock. Proceeds, from 
tbe benefit will be turned over to " 
the Scholarship Committee for die* trlbutlon to worthy students In the form of scholarship grants., scholarships were granted
bridge given lost year.
Miss Helen Murphy, ’22, Is chair«' ot the commute in charge of
Zarelda Mazza ’32, patronesses; . Loretta O'Toole ’91, faculty invita­tions; and Rachel Maglll Altman ’17, candy.
Tables for the bridge are 13.00.
nuslum.
A Colorado forestry professor gave this iUumniating advice about lighting forest flres: “Tho im­portant thing to remember Is to keep cool.”—Notre Dame Scholar tlo. '
JuwvK. MEDICO

---------------------------------------------------

immmmmm
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 19,1935
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
H.. INGRAM 
WILLIAM E HAKE
Dirigibles
Now that Ihe last of the lighter- than-alr cratt that -was regarded as fit . tor service has gone the way *£ its predecessors, there remains only to wait for the decision of the board of Inquiry as to the cans© of tbe disaster, and to speculate upon the wisdom of the building ot any more of these ships in the fu­ture After the loss- of the “Ak- ton" there was considerable com- nient made by prominent authori­ties on aviation in general upon the practicability or impracticabil­ity of the dirigible either in peace or la war. Naturally, opinions differed widely, and even those In . agreement on the subject haddifferent reasonscondemnation oí lighter than 
.'air croft.
From a practical point of (n3T' it would seem that tbe investment -óf a sum comparable to the cost of one dirigible in tbe construction of ifLet, efficient ’plai "i greater measure
would afford _ of protectionand utility in lime of war than one o£tbe giant airships. It is natural- ; ly Impossible fot a dirigible to at­tain the speeds of a fast pursuit -plane, and it it also impossible ior it to cover the same amount ot- border or coast line on scouting .trips as could be watched by,.the'-number of plades that could he purchased for the cost -of one of 
•the airships.-- 
"On the ' other hand, , the load carrying ability of the dirigible /makes it attractive for bombing ’ purposes, and its enormous cruis­ing radius' as compared to Uie alr- .. plane make it seem a powerful -weapon.-. However, 'unless its com- mahder resorts for safely lo the higher altitudes • that cannot be reachcd by enemy pursuit planes, it-is necessary for tbe big ships to be guarded by fast planes to drive - off enemy attacks that would re- ' 'suit in destruction or capture of the slower-dirigible. The fact that- these protecting planes ' do not ‘ ^ave._the..crul6lng radius of the air­ship forces the ship to restrict its.sphere, of operations, since rising tq higher altitudes, while affording
Idle Thoughts 
of an . 
Idle Might 
Student
ou’re telling me—
Tliat for two weeks we wen Died the Tartan. Well I didn't think uid mind the lack of It hut when the first week came around 1 felt a void, and when the second week lapsed, I was about at tbe end of my string. I thought that
ght. The first semester end­ed for the day classes with the customary exams; they too have exams r am told, and with the reg­istration and what notB for the beginning of the second semester. I suppose well have to look over the gap and.make the best of the situation.
thing else. I don’t km
the night students, that is, '
that Is, if you neglect taking into :count the class period asslgn- lents.
The Gold Question
tioh'of;. that held in the vaults of the- Treasury might have suffered serious\4iminutIon‘ by rust and de-' . cay-, during' the wait for the decl- tie'Supremo Court on the .legality of the gold clause. Seri­ously ppeaklng. the delay has re­dacted unfavorably on business and finance &a a whole, and it is hoped '.that the decision, when reached, Trill restore sufficient ’ confidence
-verdict will be welcome.
That I'dldn’t make
on the job. Certainly i this Friday and be- and then be sure you date up—so what
N.S.C, to Hold 
Holiday Dance
Washington’s Birthday 
Occasion for Function
Final arrangements have been completed for the Washington’s Birthday Dance which will be held Friday evening, February 22, in Thistle Hall. This is an annual t which Is sponsored by the Night Student Council.
Val Garvan and his orchestra have been selected to furnish the music for the occasion. While this Mr. Garvan’s initial appearance a Night School function, he is no means unknown to local dance enthusiasts, and judging from tbe reports of the orchestra committee, tbe band should be well received. 1The. decorations will conform with the spirit of the occasion and ill be carried out in red, white ad blue colors. The committee lias promised something new in the way of decorations. The pro­grams will likewise be executed In novel manner. •It is expected that the students ill take advantage of this oppor­tunity to relax and enjoy them­selves by attending the dance. As be past, no classes are sched­uled for Washington’s Birthday. Due to the fact that this affair will be held on a Friday night, dancing .vill continue from nine till one, .hereby giving the students an ex- xa~hour of entertainment. Tbe idmissioo, however, will remain :ho same as for previous functions, that Is, one dollar per couple. !
Walter Nolgot. Mr. Noigot has : ?ore time on thè campus bis credit than most of J
Institute of Technology, and he something very definite to ’ for it. He has been interest­ed In activities for three years. Duijng this time Mr. Noigot bus
has been a good student during the whole of bis. sojourn on the campus. Last year he received a diploma from the Night College ot Engineering .In recognition of the completion of a certificate course In Electrical Engineering. Thi3 selected to the office of Treasurer of tbe Night College of Engineering, and in addition is member of the Night Student
Industries College 
Affair Successful
NIGHT LIGHTS
- are running out of lnterestini_; ter . . The reason for the big turnouts lately of pre-dance fixer- " uppers is Dorothea Pierce, the eo-
' help hfm in his studies by conduct» thol? • m-iwtltjgs in Germac tas fallen on deaf ears . ’ . Jack Gil­bert'(not the great lover!) has a ; job driving a Welfare Lady around. -r-When interiewed, Mr. Gilbert - stated "I’ll take spinach’’ . ..That over supply of exclamation - -points -strewn- -about the- column last week were just some old tfnes . they were going to throw in tlis .wastebasket and decided to put in 'the:column Instead*.
: : All Bleumle, better known as C. T. T.’s Beau Brummel, is on bis -way to becoming a-big business ex- , <ecutive-wqrried look and all! ,. . .• Anne Hanson has spurned the : Night Student Council for a
—“Not.coming a classic.
’ . It looked like a “League tlons" line-up the other afternoon •-when the Arts School quartet, Tracht. White, Schurko, and Lalli, ‘stood up to get their pictures
The fireworks- started when ^Homebody said “Drensen looks lik< ;>a musician!” . . . The piece d< ./resistance; was the discovery that . Tonv Lalll'B feet had been -cross­ed right on left, instead of left on. right, in two pictures! ... Thistle photos or no Thistle photos, im- i.agine Ed White trying to stand up
/-•fibulful look in Sally, Lang''vwhen the orchestra played. “Star- -. dust?" . . Bill Vensel couldn't ?• get jover" the artistic but uneven ^.Vtvay the hearts; decorations were ' ¿ung—quite contrary to the hard* bei'ed traigit iina ,the engineers - usually come through with . . -. •iiTVe even measure ours to make. 'Bure they're even:" he confided.
Council Observes 
Dual Anniversary
Thin week the students reclster- ed in the night colleges of tbe Car­negie Institute of Technology will
evening, one of them of na tlonal importance and the otbei of local campus interest.
February 22 is of national lm portance because it marks tbe birthday of George Washington, the c ' - - -
ed alive days when It
similar vein, but by all means not of such magnitude, this day signi­fies the emergence from a group of disassociate and non-unifled or­ganizations of night students of
Student Council.
Celebrations' Coincide 
It seems significant, but wholly
the Night Student Council | should occur on the same day.In commemoration of these two occasions the Night" Student Coun- *1 has planned a dance to bo held i Thistle Hall on the evening of February 22. There are no classes session, as it is one of the hoil-1 days observed by the institute.
Tartan.
Council Begins Eleventh Year, , It was eleven years ago this Fri­day, February 22, 1925, that the Council took form and the present | constitution was formally adopted, week the Council, therefore es ten' full year's or'siiccess- ful functioning on the Carnegie I Campus. |
Ii may he of Interest' to the night, students, both of former, years and'
Will Click Receives Plaudits 
On Return Engagement
The Night College of Industries dance, recently held in Thistle Hall, was one of the most success­ful events of this nature that the College of Industries has spon­sored ever since the introduction of night social affairs. The fine experience of Mr. Stone, president of the .College of Industries and Chairman of the Council Social Committee, was evident in the smoothness with which -the event was carried on.
The music was furnished by Wiii Click who proved • his ability to please at tbe Post Holiday Council
Industrial air to the hall, huge wheel, suspended from celling, was divided to depict the different branches of Industry that are taught at Carnegie. _____
Didja Notice
THAT the Art students had their hearts In the last, dance.THAT al! of the college big­wigs had their pietures taken
mpus recently. Mme,
Plaid Presents Treasurer of |Arts Function 
Night College of Engineering
Student Has Enjoyed An 
Enviable Record in 
Work at Carnegie
Terrors of Exam 
Periods Lessened
Activities Workers 
To Report Feb. 22
All students who are inter­ested n. obtaining additional points toward their Insignia Award are requested to re­port In Thistle Hall on Fri­day aiternoon, February 22. The purpose of tbe meeting will be to decorate the ball for Washington’s Birthday Dance which will be. held Friday evening. Since there are still several remaining social functions scheduled lor the present school year, ample opportunity is provid­ed for those students who have fallen behind In their activities points to make up tbe necessary point» toward the Insignia Award. Extra points will be given for ticket sales.
Professor Recommends Thaj 
Students Hear Recitals
Registration Incrsas 
Shown In Second Term
have recently registered for the second semester. The group in eludes those who are desirous ol removing a condition in some of their subjects, as well as those
the second semester.
t!on3 In the districtiployment that enabled tli to again attend classes at Car­negie. It is grat
WALTER NOIGOT
Most of the students are per­
haps aware of tbe fact that the 
Carnegie Plaid has not been pub­
lished during the past two weeks 
because of the mid-semester ex­
aminations. For most of us. the txaminations have been a bug-a- too, but not so in Monmouth, 1111- lois. Following a custom of years Professor C. G. Goodrich has been g afternoon organ corn low students to relax during the mi? semester examinations. It has been his custom to include RMY :tlons of a soft and soothing na- re. It is to be regretted that i have so few organs on the ‘campus. •
Syracuse JJniv«
This year more than a third of he freshman class at Yale will be lermilted to skip some regular whereby un-
Is Big Success
Kummer's Orchestra 
Acclaimed by Students
The recent function of the Night College of Fine Arts proved once again the untiring effort with which this group functions, as well as tbe originality of the deco­rative scheme' employed by the >mmittee in charge of the events ’ that College.
The decorations were carried out in the form of hearts suspended in staggered fashion from the beams, the hearts being multi­colored, tbe general effect was very bright and cheerful. Tbe spot­lights were arranged so an to give shadow effect of intertwined hearts on the wall. The music furnished by Hermie Kumer, and judging from the acclaim with hich this group was received, again on the future.' The keeping with the 
general theme of tlie decorations of pierced heai 
mounted on a dark background.
they should be heard again c
Fraternity Groups Are 
Active on JNight Campus
There nre two fraternities on the Carnegie campus dedicated to In- ertests of the night students. These iwo organisations are recognized by the Night Student Council and supplement the work of the Coun­cil io providing -the night students with opportunities for social con­tacts which they would not other­wise have the time to form. Night school attendance is usually a hur­ried existence and if the students have no excuse for meeting outside, of the classroom they seldom get very well acquainted witli their classmates. The two night school fraternities. Phi Nu and Nu Sigma Alpha, perform a very signal serv­ice in bringing together the stu­dents from the various classes. Tbe contacts thus formed relieve the monotony of the night school grind and form an important part of tbe student's education.
Plaid Plague’s Demise 
Confirmed by Himself
Very reluctantly we go to 
press with tbe announcement 
that the Roving Reporter has 
scooped the world again. We had 
thought that with the demise of that scourge of the Council that our readers would be able to scan these pages in pe:-.ce.
His copy conies through the medium of a medium, a medium •• sized person of me­dium age, and since the copy comes, we needs must prlut it or he would probably baunt us like tie haunts some of the dances. His first message has to do with the business of bis department. He states that he is now ready to bring messages from the tropical soli-
any question that might, be bothering you, the past, Ihe present or the future or times beyond recall. However, ior some unknown reason he will not di­vulge. Ibc contents of coming quizzes. For an item of news for this week's Plaid, he states that Napoleon Bonaparte is all of a bib und tucker because .some of his letters are to be published. It lems that Nap’s emotions are di- ided between elation over being short story writer, and fear that
COLLEGE
ART
STUDIO
Odd Jobs in Art Work 
Performed for the. 
Service of Students 
INQUIRE AT 
BOOKSTORE
Night Lights DispUj 
New and. Unusual Gleaig
Dear Editor:
Overwhelmed by your generodi. In the matter of exclamation poLj. in last week’s column, it is with» tear in my voice and a throb in my throat (and a homicidal eiM~ In my eye) that I beg you to strain yourselves this week. I sDlj
u when reading a col-
after tbe first 50
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
j COLOR,NEWS and COMM ERClAlj
—ART----- 1
¦ORALL ILLUSTRATIVE «( 
PURPOSES
¡dance. Zz2zzlngl
i not been dis- nus failures or > atteud school, i of the contempt
Roving Reporter
weekly installments interesting data conccrning the Council, formation, its tradition, and its ; tivities. The first of this . sen will appear in next week's Tartan.
SECHER’S
1714 Murray Avenue
the place to 
eat
• Conveniently 
Located
• Atmosphere
•Music Every Evening •
HAPPY WILSON
Singing 
-‘World's Heavyweight Champion Singer”
CONNIE BRUCE—Piano
“The Students* .Rendezvous” ¦¦
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
• •
— Oakiaad Branch-
Forbes and Meyran
«THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
CENTER OF
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
nc movin
thatSmokers of Chesterfield are funny 
way, you can hardly move ’em. They 
evermore like 'em, and they c\ermorc 
stick to ’em. ÚaJsUrfieiWs lire wiuter— they
m
¦I¦aim
