Volume 88, Issue 19Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvaniá7 March 1994
Resolutions 
clear Senate
By Volum e8,Is19
Tartan Personnel Manager
Student Senate passed by ac­
clamation Tuesday night two 
resolutions that, if enacted, 
would have permanent effects 
on two University depart­
ments.
Resolution S94-01, “The 
Resolution on Graduate Af­
fairs,” calls upon the Univer­
sity to establish an adminis­
trative position that primarily 
advocates on behalf of gradu­
ate students. The resolution 
calls for the Provost to respond 
to Senate by the end of the 
month.
The second resolution that 
passed, S94-02, announces a 
campus-wide referendum re­
garding plus/minus grading in 
the fall 1994 semester.
During the spring elections 
to be held April 13-15, stu­
dents can vote on whether 
they’d like to see no change in 
grading, plus/minus grading
changes for everybody, or plus/ 
minus grading only for incom­
ing freshmen.
Peter Ashcroft, a doctorate 
student in engineering and 
public policy, wrote the resolu­
tion on graduate affairs after 
talking with members of the 
Graduate Student Organiza­
tion (GSO) and other students. 
Ashcroft then asked CIT Sena­
tor Milind Kandlikar to pro­
pose the resolution to Student 
Senate.
“In theory, there are a lot of 
people on campus, such as as­
sociate deans, who implicitly 
have responsibilities related to 
graduate issues,” Ashcroft said. 
“In practice, however, they’re 
stretched very thin.”
According to Ashcroft, one of 
the problems graduate students 
face is implementing depart­
mental grievance policies. 
Ashcroft said that some of the 
obstacles of the grievance pro­
cedure is the lack of publicity 
Please see RESOLUTIONS, page 3
GSO: Bookstore falls short
Group proposes changes to current, future stores
Ca mssrlu Vn1m
Tartan Contributing Editor
Space in the bookstore is a prob­
lem now, and may be in the fu­
ture as well, fears the Graduate 
Student Organization (GSO).
Last September the GSO 
formed a committee to investi­
gate plans for the new bookstore 
in the University Center and the 
current situation in the book­
store.
The committee’s task was to 
come up with a proposal to im­
prove the current bookstore and 
to make suggestions for the bet­
terment of the proposed book­
store in the University Center. 
The proposal was submitted to 
the administration on January
11.
The proposal states that “An 
ideal university bookstore func­
tions as one of the prime intellec­
tual resources of the university. 
It supports the needs of the stu­
dents, faculty, staff, and alumni.”
The proposal suggests that the 
current bookstore falls far short 
of the ideal and that the new 
bookstore, which is a combina­
tion of the bookstore, art store, 
Carnegie Shoppe, and Entropy, 
will not reach the ideal as it is 
proposed because not enough 
space has been dedicated to it.
Many students called the book­
store crowded. “[The bookstore] 
seems to be really cluttered. Two 
people can’t walk down the same 
aisle ... it’s claustrophobic,” said 
Octavio Lubrano, an industrial 
design senior.
The GSO Bookstore Commit­
tee, headed by Srinivas Akella, a 
graduate student in Robotics, re­
searched how other universities 
have organized their bookstores. 
Their primary complaint with the 
proposed bookstore is that there 
is not enough space dedicated to 
it based on the size of the Univer­
sity.
According to the proposal, the 
National Association of College 
Stores (NACS) suggests that a 
desirable ratio of floor space to 
student population provides 2.5 
to 3.0 square feet of floor space 
per student. The current ratio of 
stores’ (book and art stores and 
Carnegie Shoppe) space to stu- 
Please see BOOKSTORE, page 3
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
giM r9n UvtyMa .Pvbh áiM 7vttMbá cPP4UáPtM TH74EbA 8b .Pvt HtMHUR
THE TARTAN
‘94-95 reservation process underway...
Housing assignments begin
Ca lurs1l en11nN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The arduous process of matching stu- 
' dents with rooms is underway, with some 
students enthusiastic about their room 
next year, and others not so happy.
Beginning at 10 am last Tuesday, 
March 1, current first-year CMU resi­
dents lined up in the Morewood Rec 
Room to choose their number in the 
room draw. By Thursday at 5 pm, Phase
One of the 1994^95 Room Reservation 
Process had been completed.
The process began when students put 
down their $100 deposit. Then, begin­
ning with current freshmen, each stu­
dent selected a number and decided 
whether or not to keep their rooms.
Even with that guarantee, current 
freshmen, experiencing the room draw 
for the first time, came out of it either 
elated or disappointed.
Freshman Bill Walton was unlucky
enough to draw number 1009. “I had 
said all day long that I was getting 1101, 
so it didn’t really shock me,” said Walton.
Walton has not yet chosen a roommate 
and finding a desired living space for 
next year may be difficult. Walton plans 
to “talk to a bunch of people and figure 
out what to do.”
At the other end of the spectrum, fresh­
man IM major Humza Naviwala was 
fortunate to draw number six. His first 
Please see HOUSING, page 7
Report looks at role of women
Ca ds,1lu e7,w11lrI
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon employs fewer female faculty members 
than its competitors, pays men more than women, and lags 
behind other universities in attracting female undergradu­
ates, according to a report published last week.
The document, a comprehensive overview of the current 
conditions facing women at the University, represents the 
final report of a provost-sponsored commission charged with 
obtaining “data to document the current status and needs of 
women at the [U]niversity.”
In addition, the report recommends ways the University
can improve its recruitment and treatment of women.
The commission’s report echoes the findings of a similar 
task force organized over two decades ago, which made 
dozens of recommendations centering around the lack of 
female representation in faculty and administrative posi­
tions and the growing decline of educational opportunities for 
women at Carnegie Mellon.
“Barriers and difficulties still exist,” says the new report, 
which notes that while the University has made some progress, 
“there are difficulties that have not been addressed ad­
equately by past institutional practices.”
These difficulties fall into a few major categories, according 
Please see REPORT, page 7
Inside
Classifieds..........................15
Comics...............................L4
Diversions..........................L9
Features.............................LI
Forum...................................8
Sports.................................11
Calendar........................L12
Vox Populi.....................L12
Future less hazy for some functions
WRCT takes Caber Club's space
DESTRUCTIONUPDATE
Ca Fl9nu gnrNso
Tartan News Editor
WRCT-FM finally has a 
home, but the station’s new 
studios mean the loss of the Caber Club.
“I’m happy that we’re finding a place,” said 
Steve Auterman, WRCT general manager. 
“I think it’s going to do rather well, in fact. 
It’s larger than what we have now, and we’ve 
been cramped for space for years.”
The University announced on February 
24 that the Caber Club, the University- 
operated, for-profit health club in Margaret
Morrison Plaza, will 
close on March 25 after 
12 years of operation. 
“What really drove the 
" decision is WRCT,” said 
Neil Binstock, director of business ser­
vices. “There was no space feasible in the 
[former Naval Reserve Center] that 
would work for WRCT.”
“We had certainly hoped that we 
wouldn’t displace anybody,” said 
Auterman.
“Caber Club surfaced late in the game 
Please see WRCT, page 7
Basaem E 1-Dasher/Tartan Photographer
/o,g pETT cM SPyEbA 8báP áiEU UáPtM.tPbá 8b 
eeBk piMtM ,HcMt ,Tvc 8U bPp TP7HáMhR
Andrew Fiores/Tartan photographer
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
giM ,HtbMAEM eMTTPb oPpEbA ,Tvc tPpMh Eb áiM MbátHb7M P. CH4Mt IHET THUá pMM4 
HU OHtá P. áiM 7TvcKU .vbhtHEUMtk fstALPLSHbEHRG 9iPpb tPpEbA HtM UMbEPt 9áM.Hb 
rtPMáU7ik UPOiPSPtM FHSMU CE74EMak .tMUiSHb BHááa NHbAk Hbh UPOiPSPtM 
rMPtAM ,R 97PááR
• Winter sports seasons 
wrapup with a bang.
See page 11
• Students should in­
sure their own rights, 
says columnist.
See page 8
©1994 Chrysalis Records 
Hit the Highway, H bMp HTcvS ca giM 
B.P7THTSMtU DUiPpb HcPyM•k EU 
M27MTTMbáR BTMHUM UMM Pvt tMyEMp Pb 
BHAM 1:R
• Ray Manzarek, one­
time keyboardist for The 
Doors, is interviewed.
See page L9
• Meet CMU’s own “pin­
ball wizard.”
See page LI
• Propaganda comes in • The Crime and Inci- 
many guises. dent Report returns!
See page 9 See page 5
Art Store, GSO Coffeehouse may find home in Building F
Ca sd/lod IlNs9
Tartan Staffwriter
Entropy, the Carnegie 
Shoppe, the Art Store, and the 
GSO Coffeehouse could be mov­
ing to the Printing and Publi­
cations Building, possibly in 
late May, in order to make way 
for the demolition of Skibo at 
the end of the school year.
The building housingUniver- 
sity Printing and Publications
is known as Building F. “It’s just 
off the Cut,” said Kevin Lamb, 
director of the Planning Board. 
“We believe it’s reasonably acces­
sible.”
According to Lamb, the center 
of the campus will shift from one 
side ofthe Cut to the other. There 
will be wheelchair ramps in­
stalled to assist handicapped stu­
dents; a parking lot will be added 
as well.
Building F will be cleared
around the end of May when 
Printing and Publications moves 
into the former Appliance Store 
warehouse on Penn Avenue, 
which was acquired by CMU.
With the demolition of Skibo, 
all of the organizations housed 
there have had to relocate until 
the University Center is com­
pleted.
The retail stores and the GSO 
Coffeehouse are no exceptions. 
Many of the student organiza­
tions were forced to move into 
the former Naval Reserve Cen­
ter on Forbes Avenue.
If the plan goes through, the 
Coffeehouse might benefit. Just 
outside of Building F, a project 
has been started to put up a 
patio which will serve as an 
additional area for patrons to 
use.
Lamb says there might be an 
overall reduction of space for 
Please see 9m8Cnk OHAM 6

---------------------------------------------------

3giM gHtáHb ( ,HtbMAEM eMTTPb ( ) eHt7i &::-THIS JUST INIII
Situation in Bosnia 
remains unstable
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina 
. March 4 (DJ) — U.N. peacekeepers 
are stretched to the limit, and the 
fragile truce around Sarajevo and in 
central Bosnia could fall apart unless 
more troops are sent in, the commander 
of U.N. forces in Bosnia said today.
“It will start to crumble,” Lieuten­
ant General Michael Rose told report­
ers in the centra] Bosnian town of 
Vitez. “There are people who are ready 
to go back to war."
Yesterday, Yasushi Akashi, the chief 
of the U.N. mission in the former Yu­
goslavia, said he needs nearly 11,000 
more troops to enforce the cease-fires 
that have restored a measure of calm 
to Bosnia.
That would double the number of 
U.N. peacekeepers in Bosnia. It was 
unclear where the additional peace­
keepers might come from.
The U.S. is refusing to commit troops 
without an overall peace agreement,
and Britain, France, and Canada are 
reluctant to send more.
Truces between Serbs and the Mus­
lim-led government in Sarajevo and 
between Croats and Muslims in cen­
tral and southwestern Bosnia are gen­
erally holding, but violations are in- 
creasi ng.
The U.N. mission’s military com­
mander in former Yugoslavia, Gen­
eral Jean Cot of France, called the 
U.S. refusal to send troops “not very 
courageous” and said reinforcements 
were needed to avoid “losing what has 
been done.”
France has the largest contingent of 
U.N. troops in Bosnia.
In Washington, General George 
Joulwan, commander of U.S. forces in 
Europe, told a Senate committee that 
the Serbs had almost completely com­
plied with a NATO ultimatum to re­
move their heavy weapons from around 
Sarajevo.
oMOvcTE7HbU UátEyM áP pEb 
cHááTM PyMt iMHTái 7HtM
ANNAPOLIS, Md. March 4 (DJ) — 
Senate and House Republicans say 
their private discussions here on health 
care reform have helped them move 
closer to enabling Americans to gain 
access to affordable, comprehensive 
health care.
But the legislators say they still 
aren’t sure how they will achieve that 
goal.
The legislators said they will con­
tinue to discuss their mutual goals in 
an effort to find a unified solution for 
health care reform. They also hope to
use recent negative publicity on Presi­
dent Clinton’s health care plan to gain 
more support for Republican alterna­
tives.
“The fact that we sat in there and 
agreed we’re going to try to put this 
thing together is a pretty big step,” 
said Senate Minority leader Robert 
Dole (R-Kan.).
“While the group found common 
ground, dissent remains in the areas 
of individual mandates and capping 
the tax deductability of health costs,” 
said Rep. Thomas Bliley (R-Va).
Clinton attacks Republicans
WASHINGTON, March 4 (DJ) — 
President Clinton hlastedRepublicans 
for maneuvering to embarrass him in 
the affair about his ill-fated invest­
ment in Whitewater Development Co.
“Itisclearthatthe Republicans have 
behaved in a fairly blatant, bald and 
totally political way in that regard," 
said Clinton.
“Since there is no evidence of abuse 
of authority on my part as President, 
and since they have often complained 
in the past about political motivation, 
I would think they would show a little
restraint,” Clinton said.
Republicans have been threatening 
to hold up the Senate confirmation of 
Federal DepositlnsuranceCorp. chair- 
designate Ricki Tigert, pending hear­
ings on Whitewater and suspicions 
about White House interference in 
related Justice Department investi­
gations.
“Since there was no wrongdoing on 
my part, I want a full, complete, thor­
ough investigation, and I want it to go 
forward unimpeded and then to be 
over,” Clinton said.
Investors reject junk-bond funds
WASHINGTON, March 4 (DJ) — In­
vestors are yanking their money out of 
junk-bond mutual funds: $730 million 
flowed out last week, according to AMG 
Data Services of Areata, Calif.
That outflow is among the largest ever 
in a single week, according to The Wall 
Street Journal. And it sharply reverses 
a four-month pattern of weekly inflows 
into the nation’s $50 billion or so of high- 
yield junk-bond funds.
So far, most of the departing investors 
are money m anagers of the trigger-happy 
variety known as market timers, and 
not small investors. But the scope of the 
timers’ withdrawals has pressured high- 
yield junk-bond prices across the board.
Yesterday was another bad day in the 
bond market and junk was no exception: 
Junk prices failed to sustain an initial 
rally, and many fell a half-point, or $5 
for each $1,000 of bonds.
Among junk bonds, “everything is be­
ing hit,” said Martin S. Fridson, a man­
aging director at Merrill Lynch & Co.
It’s the second time in less than a year 
that money managers trying to “time” 
their investments have rattled the 
junkbond market. Last summer, rapid- 
fire traders yanked hundreds of millions 
of dollars out of junk mutual funds even 
though interest rates were falling — 
only to plow the money back into the 
funds within weeks.
Again the timers seem to be fleeing at 
an odd moment. They pushed the alarm 
button largely because the price of U.S. 
Treasury bonds had slumped. They ig­
nored their usual premise that a 
strengthening economy is good news for 
junk-bond issuers, companies with much 
to gain from an economic rebound.
“The sense overall is that there may be 
more to go” in the way of junk-bond price 
declines, said Fridson. “It all depends on 
the Treasury.” Meanwhile, some mu­
tual funds are unloadingjunk-bond hold­
ings into a falling market.
Three of Kemper Securities’ eight 
high-yield funds were among the hard­
est hit by themarket timers. They pulled 
out $425 million in the past week, reduc­
ing assets in those funds to about $3.5 
billion. AccordingtoMichaelMcNamara, 
a Kemper fund manager, less than $100 
million of the money controlled by tim­
ers remains in Kemper funds: the tim­
ers’ pullout is “largely finished,” he said.
Because the timers can swing in and 
out so violently, Kemper has been keep­
ing as much as 15 percent of the assets 
of those funds in high-yield bonds that 
are relatively easy to trade, such as 
government bonds of less-developed 
countries, known as Brady bonds. “We 
keep that much in liquid names,” said 
McNamara, “so it’s easy to raise the
money” in order to pay departing share­
holders. “If they came back in they’d be 
just as trigger-happy,” he said. “That’s 
not anything we’re looking forward to— 
especially since their threshold for mov­
ing out has gotten much more sensitive.”
Fred Quirsfeld manages a $2.5 billion 
bond portfolio at IDS Fixed-Income Ad­
visors, Minneapolis. He said he hasn’t 
sold any junk holdings to meet with­
drawals but believes much of the recent 
sell-off in junk comes from fellow mu- 
tual-fund managers.
Man who shot doctor convicted
PENSACOLA, Fla., March 5—A jury 
convicted the man who shot Dr. David 
Gunn to life in prison last Saturday.
Michael Griffen, a Christian Funda­
mentalist, shot Gunn at an anti-abor- 
tion rally on March 10,1993.
The jury, made up of seven women and 
five men, took just three hours before 
returning with a verdict of guilty of first- 
degree murder.
Because prosecutors agreed not to seek 
the death penalty, Griffen was auto­
matically sentenced to life in prison and 
is not eligible for parole for 24 years.
Steel strike ends after two days
WASHINGTON, March 4 (D J)—The 
United Steelworkers union ended its 
strike against Wheeling-Pittsburgh 
Corp.’s steel unit, just two days after the 
work stoppage began, The Wall Street 
Journal reported.
The two sides began informal talks 
almost immediately after the USW called 
4,700 workers out on strike at several 
plants at 3:25 am EST Tuesday, with 
both sides realizing that a prolonged 
strike was alosingproposition. The U.S. 
steel market is riding a strong recovery, 
with most mills operating at or near 
capacity, and a long strike could have 
cost Wheeling-Pittsburgh shipments and 
profits, and possiblyjobs. The short strike 
saved Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. 
from completely shutting down its mills 
and enables a quick restart.
According to the union, the tentative 
accord includes a company agreement to 
begin funding a trust for retired employ­
ees’ medical and life insurance cover­
age, work rule changes, bonuses total­
ing $2,250 a worker and a possible $500 
bonus based on the company’s 1995 
pretax income. In addition, the accord 
includes a wage increase of $1 an hour, 
three additional holidays, and pension 
improvements.
The pension plan was a major obstacle 
in earlier negotiations. The union wanted 
major pension changes. But Wheeling-
Pittsburgh, of Wheeling, W.Va., said it 
was hamstrung on that matter by ^ 
agreement with the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corp. That agreement was 
signed when the company terminated 
its pension fund while operating undet 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy law protection 
from 1985 to 1991. Apparently, though 
the new pact doesn’t violate the agree! 
ment with the PBGC, one person fami). 
iar with the situation said.
The Wheeling-Pittsburgh contract is 
for two-and-a-half years — compared 
with a standard six years for other 
steelmakers — and coincides with the 
1996 expiration of the company’s agree, 
ment with the PBGC.
The union said talks will begin on 
retirement benefits January 15, 1996, 
about nine months before the contract 
expires on October 1,1996.
Game makers to try self-policing
WASHINGTON, March 4 (DJ) -1 
the video game industry follows through 
with an independent ratings panel for 
games, it won’t likely make legislative 
action necessary, Sen. Joe Lieberman 
(D-Conn.) said.
“While it appears the industry 
made progress in the past few months to 
provide the public with a credible rating 
system, the most critical steps lay ahead,” 
Lieberman said at a Senate subcommit­
tee hearing today. “If the industry does 
its job, we will have accomplished our 
job, and our legislation would become 
unnecessary.”
The industry has said it is tentatively 
considering an anonymous rating sys­
tem that would include a panel of educa­
tors, parents, and psychologists. The 
system would additionally rate games 
for sex and violence.
Lieberman, who has been pushing for 
changes in the video game industry, 
said he is pleased to see the industry 
working for results. He said a rating 
system must be independent, include 
members of the public, have penaliza­
tion powers, be able to keep pace with 
technology, and have easily understood 
ratings.
The Connecticut senator also said he 
would like to see the sexual and violent 
content in games curbed.
“I encourage the video game manufac­
turers to do more to remove violent and 
sexual images from your games," 
Lieberman said.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones
Layout by 
Eric J. Salzman
Celebrate Tradition %t"ha Balfour 
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're 
preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, 
degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs 
can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring... a 
tradition of excellence since 1931!
mLr Balfour.
Thursday.............................................................March 10
Friday....................................................................March 11
Baker Hall 
10am - 3pm
$35 deposit
No one remembers in so many mi\s.

---------------------------------------------------

giM gHtáHb ( ,HtbMAEM eMTTPb ( ) eHt7i &::-5
Survey finds store inadequate, proposes changes
BOOKSTORE, from page 1
lents is 1.09 square feet per stu- 
|ent and the proposed store only 
,rovides for 1.38 square feet per 
tudent, based on current popu- 
ation.
Cramped conditions
The current bookstore was last 
expanded in 1976. Since then, 
¿U has experienced 44 percent 
powth. The Bookstore Commit- 
feels that these cramped con­
ditions in the bookstore are not 
conducive to sales and do not con­
vey the University’s commitment 
, excellence.
“On one hand, I think CMU’s 
jookstore should reflect the qual­
ity of its intellectual environment, 
on the other, I think it should
be a vital contributor to create 
CMU’s intellectual environment. 
Looked at either way, an out­
standing bookstore should be a 
high priority with CMU’s admin­
istration,” said Jean Moroney, a 
graduate student in psychology 
and member of the Bookstore 
Committee.
Four main problems
The GSO Bookstore Commit­
tee points out four main prob­
lems with the current bookstore 
in the proposal: insufficient 
floorspace, inadequate book se­
lection, poor organization of 
books, and poor use of space. The 
committee’s suggestions for im­
proving the bookstore for now 
include hiring a professional
bookstore designer in order to 
ensure the best use of space, cre­
ating more display and storage 
space, using recommendations 
from departments at CMU for 
expanding the non-course book 
sections, and computerizing the 
filing system.
The committee found that book 
prices, after student discounts, 
and course book selection were 
comparable to other university 
bookstores. But they also noted 
that the number of non-course 
book titles was less than most, 
especially books written by fac­
ulty members.
Neil Binstock, director of busi­
ness services, agrees with many 
of the suggestions for the current 
bookstore. “There are a number 
of things already being imple­
mented, such as the technical 
section being expanded. We are 
working with grad students and 
some departments in order to do 
this,” said Binstock. “There’s no 
reason not to.”
Binstock also said that abboard 
had been set up to which people 
can post suggestions and through 
which retail services can adver­
tise new books and other changes.
Changes being made
Patricia Stacer, manager of 
Retail Services, agrees that many 
changes are currently being 
made, but says that the process 
cannot be instantaneous, because 
of the process of researching and 
writing proposals for major 
changes.
“We met with students last 
October, and we’ve followed up 
on some suggestions,” said Stacer. 
Some of the improvements have 
included better signs in the store 
and the rearrangement and ex­
pansion of the computer science 
book section.
Bookstore management re­
fused to comment on the GSO 
proposal or on current conditions 
in the store.
Since the proposed design of 
the bookstore in the University 
Center only increases the total 
space of the bookstore, the Art 
Store and Carnegie Shoppe by 25 
percent, the Bookstore Commit­
tee is still concerned about size 
problems. Expanding the space 
to the size recommended by the 
proposal, however, may be prob­
lematic.
“The University Center plan 
was cast many years ago ... to 
gain more space is difficult,” said 
Binstock. But he added that he 
has been visiting other college 
stores in order to see how they 
deal with space constraints.
GSO is currently waiting for a 
response to the proposal from the 
administration. Binstock said he 
has reviewed the proposal and 
that a response is forthcoming. 
The resolution by the GSO ap­
proving the proposal asks the Uni­
versity to “take immediate action 
to implement the recommenda­
tions of the report ... recognize 
the importance of a good campus 
bookstore and provide the book­
store with the resources it needs 
to be of the first rank.”
9MbHáM OHUUMU tMUPTváEPbU Pb OTvU0SEbvU AtHhEbAk AtHhvHáM hMHb
RESOLUTIONS, from page 1
and awareness to graduate students, 
lack of knowledge from faculty members 
who are “not reminded about what the 
standards are,” and the lack of clarity 
between what constitutes a grievance or 
just an annoyance.
For a lot of issues, the needs of gradu­
ate students are different than the needs 
of undergraduates, such as housing, 
health care, child care, and transporta­
tion,” Ashcroft said.
Provost concerned about grads
“Student Senate feels it is important 
to make a statement, and I take this 
very seriously,” said Barbara Lazarus, 
associate provost for academic projects. 
'Graduate students don’t know where to 
turn.”
Lazarus said that the Provost’s office 
will try to increase graduate students 
awareness on the grievance procedure 
by communicating with them in a better 
way and creating and clarifying new 
avenues.
“We [the Provost’s office] will be meet­
ing next week to discuss the grievance 
procedure and graduate student aware­
ness [of] it,” said Lazarus. The meeting 
will include members of the GSO leader­
ship.
“Over the last few years, every depart­
ment has solidified a position generally 
for graduate concerns,” said Lazarus. 
‘Painfully, many graduate students 
know nothing about this.”
According to Lazarus, the responsi­
bilities of associate dean in every college 
except GSIA include responding to 
graduate student concerns, but some 
students may feel that they do not have
neutral stance, especially if the dis­
agreement involves the department.
Lazarus feels that a graduate dean is
complicated idea, and that any stu­
dent can directly address their concerns 
to the Provost. “This is a de-centralized 
place, and the concerns of graduates
must be taken seriously,” said Lazarus. 
“It is clear to us that students must 
know that there is a system.”
Plus/minus resolution passes
The resolution on plus/minus grading 
came as a total surprise to Student Sen­
ate, according to Kami White, chair of 
Academic Affairs (AA). “It did not come 
out of the Academic Affairs Committee,” 
said White, a freshman H&SS student.
This resolution, written by H&SS 
Senator Lara Wolfson, is the third at­
tempt at making a recommendation to 
Faculty Senate and the administration. 
According to White, the first resolution 
was moved back into AA last semester 
for more information.
White said that it is a good idea to hold 
a referendum. “At last year’s Food for 
Thought,” said White,' “AA had a little 
survey with some questions, including 
plus/minus grading.” One hundred and 
fifty students responded to the survey. 
The results showed that the students’ 
opinion on plus/minus grading was al­
most split but slightly in favor of it.
Wolfson’s original proposal would have 
allowed the voting to be taken electroni­
cally, but the resolution was amended 
during Senate’s session to remove that 
clause.
“I think that electronic voting would 
have gathered a much higher turnout,” 
said Wolfson.
Wolfson said that she disagrees with 
Senators who believe that the security 
of electronic voting will be breached. “I 
dislike the idea that this campus has 
people who would break into the voting 
system,” said Wolfson. “That is grounds 
for expulsion. Students aren’t willing to 
take that chance.”
SCS Senator James Landay was one 
of the Senators who spoke strongly 
against electronic voting.
“First of all, electronic voting is not 
easy to secure,” said Landay. Landay 
said that somebody with computer expe­
rience can change the voting mecha­
nism, and he said a committee could 
have been created with a panel of com­
puter security experts to develop an ef­
fective voting system.
“Also, the referendum would be biased 
toward people who use computers,” said 
Landay. When plus/minus grading came 
up last semester, Landay voted for his 
SCS constituents against plus/minus 
grading.
The results of the referendum will be 
given to the Provost, after which a deci­
sion will be made in collaboration with 
the University Deans Committee. The 
final decision is then relayed to the 
Registrar’s office.
“People thought the administration 
was pushing for plus/minus grading,” 
said White. “They really just wanted the 
students’ opinion.”
John Papinchak, the acting registrar, 
said that his office would prefer having 
plus/minus grading only affect incoming 
classes.
“This would be a new academic policy,” 
said Papinchak. “Our preference is for 
future classes only because it is easier 
for us both systematically and adminis­
tratively. Students 
, have a concern 
about how it is go­
ing to affect them.
Plus/minus grad­
ing gives more dis­
tribution, but its 
benefits depend on 
where you stand.”
“For a lot of is­
sues, the fact that 
Student Senate 
passed these reso­
lutions is a re­
minder that serv­
ing the needs of 
both graduate and 
undergraduate 
students are com­
plementary,” said 
Ashcroft.
Resolution S94-01: The Resolution on Graduate Affairs [excerpted]
... Be it resolved that the Student Senatecalls upon the University administration 
to establish a central administrative position with a primary job description that 
explicitly includes advocacy on behalf of graduate students, in the event that 
such a position can not be immediately created, the Student Senate also calls 
upon the University administration to establish interim means of addressing 
these widespread concerns. Furthermore, the Student Senate requests that 
the Provost formally respond to this resolution within four weeks, explaining 
how the concerns articulated in this resolution will be addressed.
Resolution S94-02; Plus/Mfnus Grading
Be it resolved that the Student Senate, in response to the request from the 
Provost for a recommendation regarding the plus/minus grading for 
undergraduate, agrees to take the following action : T o solicit from undergraduate 
students, by referendum in the spring 1994 elections,on the following: 1. No 
plus/minus grading. 2. Plus/minus grading for new students only: those 
students enrolled prior to May, 1994 shall not receive plus/minus grades. 3. 
Plus/minus gradingfor ail undergraduate students effective fall 1994 according 
to the following schedule: A=4.00; A-=3.70; B+= 3.30; B=3.00; 8-=2.70; 
C+=2.30; C=2.00; C-=1.70; D+=1.30; D=1.00; R=0.00 
Students will be able to vote for one of the three options. The voting will take 
place. The option which receives the most votes will be considered a binding 
recommendation by Student Senate to the administration. Further, we ask that 
the Provost's office share with us the costs of advertising by posters and ads 
in The Tartan and on WRCT.
Summer
Positions
Available
Each counselor is responsible for 
25-35 students, some of which live 
on the counselor's floor and some of 
which are commuters.
/A
<I>
Pre-College Program
LIFE 19
ANALOG
The world around you moves in a continuous pattern of light and sound and odier analog 
inputs. Working with Micro Linear, you’ll play a critical role in applying that data to state- 
of-die-art analog ICs and mixed signal devices.
You may find yourself working on semi-standard or standard applications in data acquisi­
tion, data communications, LANs high speed bus interfaces, telecommunications, storage 
products, power supplies, or switching regulators. Our process expertise includes CMOS, 
BiCMOS and bipolar.
ANALOG DESIGN ENGINEERS
Micro Linear has opportunities for MSEE graduates with strong transistor-level analog 
fundamentals to learn advanced analog IC design while developing system engineering 
skills. You will apply your skills to chip definition, circuit design, simulation, layout super­
vision, debugging, characterization, all the way to releasing the product to production.
We’ll be On-Campus 
Friday, March 11th
Please contact your Career Placement Center to schedule an interview.
If unable to attend interview, please mail or FAX your resume and transcripts to: Human 
Resources, Micro Linear, 2092 Concourse Dr., San Jose, CA 95131. FAX: (408) 432- 
0363. We are an equal opportunity employer
Micro Linear

---------------------------------------------------

M ANNUAL FU.J
A fljOOO (Hi>(r Lmij.
ANU LF. JAmLr 
mr' N0W HIT THL VLA(h!
BSE!member nmy NETWORK (D 1954. OUUJW00> TRW (OHfAW, «1x51*. F>IC

---------------------------------------------------

giM gHtáHb ( ,HtbMAEM eMTTPb ( ) eHt7i &::-6
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Weather shuts down Shuttle for five hours
The University’s Shuttle/Escort service shut down 
for five hours last Wednesday night, in the middle 
0fa rush-hour snowstorm that clogged Oakland
“I was called by Sergeant [William] Ricci, who 
gaid that one of our drivers was having a difficult 
time getting around,” said James LaPaglia, chief of 
Campus Police. “We were also getting reports of 
numerous accidents in the Oakland area, includ­
ing one that involved a Pitt shuttle bus.”
“The danger was in driving on the roads until 
traffic cleared and the roads were plowed and 
salted [led to Shuttle’s closing],” he said.
Shuttle/Escort shut down at approximately 4 pm 
and resumed operations at 9 pm. Students trying 
to get off campus were asked to call Campus Police 
ain later.
‘One of the Escort vans was stopped after 9 pm 
by the Pittsburgh Police and advised that it should 
not be on the road— conditions were too bad,” said 
LaPaglia. “We waited an hour, and when it looked 
like things were getting better, service resumed.” 
Shuttle service was also snarled on Thursday.
“[Thursday] morning we were operating, but to­
tally off schedule,” LaPaglia said. “Most roads 
were down to one lane. Traffic was horrendous.”
“It’s been a tough couple of months for us,” he 
said. “[Thursday] we had two Physical Plant trucks 
stuck on Frew Street... [on] Wednesday we were 
getting over 100 calls an hour.”Melting snow on CFA roof wreaks havoc
Bad weather forced a number of functions sched­
uled to take place at the College of Fine Arts to seek 
alternative locations. The heavy snowfall sheared 
snowguards on the roof and sent them crashing 
through one of the layers of the skylights on the 
roof of the Alumni Concert Hall, said Hon Carter, 
director of Physical Plant.
The damage forced the closure of the Hall and the 
rescheduling of a number of events scheduled for 
this weekend. Carter said that the glass areas were 
covered with plywood to protect them from farther 
debris, and a contactor was called to reinforce and 
repair the gutters and snowguards.
Additionly, snow falling from the roof above the 
Frew Street entrance closed it until repairs to the 
roof could be made. The Drama Department’s box
office also closed Friday, said CFA PR Director 
Saul Markowitz.
“This was a pretty heavy snow,” said Carter, 
“also the weather seems to. me to be warmer. It’s 
getting the snow off the roofs a lot faster than it was 
before. It’s really straining the gutters and 
snowguards.”
“Activities in the Concert Hall have been cur­
tailed,” he said. “We put things on hold.” Carter 
said that the problem would probably be eased if 
the rain continued to fall and melt the snow slowly. 
In the meantime, “we think we have the glass 
protected,” he said.
PAT announces bus schedule changes
The Port Authority of Allegheny County (PAT) 
announced last week that bus schedules for many 
of the busses serving Oakland have changed, effec­
tive March 6. Regular riders are advised to get new 
timetables; they are available in Grey Matter at 
Skibo Hall.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
Skibo functions still homeless
SKIBO, from page 1
Entropy, the Art Store, and the Carnegie Shoppe. 
He also said that the way the space would be 
allocated for each store would be up to them.
As stated before, the moving will, tentatively, 
take place towards the end of May. Skibo will have 
a final meeting on May 16. Two weeks after that, 
Building F will become available. The stores will 
then have to close down in order for them to move.
“Ideally, we don’t want to skip a beat,” said 
Patricia Stacer, retail services manager.
Lamb guesses that the move will take three to six 
days, but he admits that he has yet to speak to any 
movers about that.
The only store that might remain open during 
the move would be the Art Store. “[It’s] a student- 
essential store,” said Stacer.
CMU runs summer art, design, and architecture 
program for students where supplies are needed. 
Lamb presumed that the Art Store would probably 
stay open.
Lamb emphasized that the plans concerning 
Building F are not definite. The decision is pend­
ing, and if a feasibility study shows that it would 
work, Lamb says that there’s a 90 percent chance 
that the plan will be enacted.
Crime and Incident Report
1/27 PERSONAL INJURY, 2:32 pm. 
While opening the passenger door of his 
patrol car, a Campus Police officer caught 
!his pinky finger between the door handle 
and the door. The officer felt transporta­
tion to a medical facility was unneces­
sary.
1/27 THEFT, 11:00 pm. Between 
January 26 and January 27, someone 
entered a room in Donner Hall and re­
moved the victim’s telephone by cutting 
the telephone fine. The resident said the 
phone was the standard touch-tone 
phone issued by the Housing Office.
1/29 DOMESTIC DISPUTE, 12:35 
pm. Campus Police received a report of
loud domestic disturbance going on in 
Welch 106. The occupants of the room 
informed responding officers that they 
were playing a game involving hitting 
each other which had begun yesterday.
The altercation had occured when one 
of the individuals resumed the game at 
a time when the other was uninterested 
in playing.
The individuals were informed that a 
report was being filed and that further 
altercations might result in an arrest for 
domestic violence.
1/29 INDECENT ASSAULT, 7:20 
pm. A CMU student was a victim of 
indecent assault when, while walking 
on Beeler Street, an man approached 
her from behind and grabbed her but­
tocks. After making a number of lewd 
remarks, the man again grabbed the 
victim. At this point, the victim fled to 
her house, and the other individual fled 
the scene.
1/30 POSSIBLE THEFT, 10:39 pm, 
Campus Police received a call concern­
ing two males riding a swivel chair 
down the driveway behind Donner Hall. 
Police responded to the report, but were 
unable to find any actors matching the
description. The chair was found and 
with it was a phone similar to those 
found in residence halls.
1/30 DISORDERLY PARTY, 12:58 
am. At 11:36 pm on January 29 Cam­
pus Police responded to a report of a 
loud party in Resnick House. The re­
porting officer was informed that this is 
a regular call on weekend nights. He 
was also told that there was reason to 
believe that there might be underage 
drinking.
The resident of the room where the 
party was being held was informed by 
the officer that another complaint would 
result in a thorough investigation of 
the ages of the guests, probably result­
ing in the issuing of citations.
At 12:58 am on January 30, Campus 
Police responded to a report from some­
one identifying himself as the “pizza 
man,” who said that he could see people 
atop Resnick House. The officers re­
sponding to the scene found that a 
screen was missing from a window, 
which provided access to the roof of the 
rotunda.
Campus Police then observed three 
persons running into a suite, from the 
roof. Upon arrival, the officers ordered 
the party shut down, and within 10 
minutes, all the guests had dispersed. 
The residents of the suite were informed 
that a report would be filed on the 
events of the evening.
1/30 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 5:45 
pm. Campus Police, responding to a 
report of a suspicious person in 5400 
hallway of Wean, accosted an individual 
who claimed to use the computers in 
the Wean clusters on weekends to write 
his articles for In Pittsburgh.. The indi­
vidual was informed that clusters on 
CMU property were for the use of stu­
dents, and that if he was found on 
campus again, he might be arrested for 
defiant trespass.
1/31MEDICAL ESCORT ,10:17 am. 
Campus Police responded to a report of 
a possible heart attack victim near En­
tropy in Skibo Hall. When the respond­
ing officer arrived on the scene, he found 
that CMU EMS had already responded, 
and the victim in question had been 
suffering dizziness after slipping on a 
patch of ice and falling on his chin. The 
victim refused a medical escort.
2/1 THEFT, 7:52 pm. A student re­
ported to Campus Police that his wallet 
had been removed from a locked locker 
in the men’s locker room. The lock could 
not be located. The wallet contained $50 
in cash, in addition to various credit 
cards.
2/1 THEFT, 9:44 pm. A student told 
Campus Police that after leaving his 
keys in his locker in the Alevel of Porter 
Hall at 8:20 am, he had returned to find 
the lock and keys gone, and the contents 
of his locker strewn about. Nothing was 
reported as missing from the locker it­
self, however.
2/6 HARASSMENT/DISORDERLY 
CONDUCT, 3:11 am. Campus Police 
received a call from a female CMU stu­
dent who claimed that she and a friend 
were being harassed by an unknown 
male in Morewood Gardens. The stu­
dent called Campus Police upon reach­
ing her room after being chased by the 
unidentified male.
While Campus Police officers were 
investigating the building, the male 
called the female students, who were 
asked to tell him to come to their room. 
The man, who was in an extreme state of 
drunkenness, was stopped in the hall. 
He was escorted to his room and put in 
the care of his suitemates, who claimed 
they could calm him down. After 10-15 
minutes of yelling and resisting his 
friends, the actor emerged from the suite 
and headed towards the elevator. He
was arrested at this time and charged 
with disorderly conduct.
2/8 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 7:51 
pm. Campus Police received a report 
from a CMU student that there were 
suspicious persons trying to sell her items 
out of the trunk of their car. The re­
sponding officers found two individuals 
matching the discriptions of the com­
plainant. Upon questioning, the indi­
viduals stated that they were here to see 
a friend. The name of the friend given to 
the reporting officers was not found in 
the C-Book.
Both individuals were advised that'if 
they were found in any CMU building 
without a permit they would be cited 
and/or arrested. Both actors were es­
corted off campus, but no car was seen.
2/9 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 2:08 
am. While on routine patrol, a CMU 
security officer saw someone carrying a 
USA Today newspaper machine onto 
the center of the football field in Gesling 
Stadium. The man tried to evade the 
security guard, but was told to stay until 
Campus Police came, and he was asked 
to produce his ID. At this point, the man 
began to ramble on verbally about try­
ing to help the world’s cause and put the 
machine back in its rightful place. It was 
apparent that the individual did not 
know where the m achine really belonged, 
and he was cited for criminal mischief.
2/11 VEHICLE HIT & RUN, 10:13 
pm. A CMU Escort driver reported a hit 
and run incident to Campus Police. The 
complainant reported that the Escort 
van had been hit by a Yellow Cab on 
Friendship Avenue.
The complainant reported that while 
turning the van around in a driveway, 
the cab was unable to stop because of the 
ice covered road and struck the rear 
bumper of the van, causing the plastic 
guard to pop off. The cab departed the
scene immediately, and the complain­
ant was unable to get any cab or plate 
numbers from the vehicle.
2/12 DISORDERLY CONDUCT/ 
INTOXICATION, 12:38 am. While on [ 
routine patrol, a CMU security guard 
called Campus Police to say that two • 
people were intoxicated in the parking 
garage. The guard also said that one of 
the actors had urinated upon the out- ; 
side of the garage’s elevator doors.
Upon arrival at the scene, a Campus • 
Police officer observed the actors cross­
ing the football field. While IDmg them, ; 
he noticed that both had a strong odor of 
alcohol on their breath. They were is­
sued citations for public intoxication and 
one was cited for open lewdness, and ; 
were told return to their apartments. ; 
One of the men complied, the other be­
came verbally abusive and would not ; 
calm down. The man was arrested and 
transported to the Public Safety Build­
ing by Pittsburgh Police.
The Tartan prints the weekly Crime ; 
and Incident Report under the following ; 
guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James ; 
LaPaglia reviews all Campus Police re­
ports prior to release to The Tartan.
• Only three people on The Tartan staff ; 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the ; 
News Editor, and the staffwriter typing \ 
the report.
• Reports are printed at The Tartan 
Editor-in-Chiefs discretion.
• All personal names of complainants, 
victims, and suspects and fraternity 
names are omitted from the printed re- . 
port. Ethnic descriptions and other per­
sonal details are given only in the context 
of a complete description.
• Not every incident that occurs on 
campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
MIKE WALKER
Ballfo ufrf.oke HoMno.l
, Sponsored, by 
The Department of Pharmacology 
Univeristy of Pittsburgh • School of Medicine 
and
The American Society for Pharmacology 
and Experimental Therapeutics
The Department of Pharmacology, University of Pittsburgh announces the availability of summer research jobs for undergraduates. This 10-week program, beginning June 1, 1994, 
is joindy funded by the department and a grant from the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Students will work as research assistants in laboratories of 
participating faculty members. The program also includes seminars on topics in pharmacology and a‘Reserach Presentation Day at the end of the program. Students will receive a $2,000 
stipend for the summer program.
To apply, submit a resume including name, address, telephone number, school, expected year of graduation, major, grade point average, names of completed college-level math and science 
courses, laboratory experience, a short statement of career goals, and two letters of reference to:
Ms. Bonnie L. Schiavone 
Summer Program Coordinator 
Department of Pharmacology 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
W1340 Biomedical Science Tower 
, Pittsburgh, PA 1S261
Deadline: March 28, 1994
_l_

---------------------------------------------------

*
Carnegie Mellon sheds some light on campus security
There’s no reason to be in the dark about campus security. A team of Carnegie Mellon police officers, security guards, and housing and student affairs staff members 
work to keep students, faculty, staff and visitors informed and safe on the campus and adjacent areas. These professionals are concerned with the safety and welfare 
of the campus community and are best able to answer questions about campus security.
Campus Security StaffBuilding SafetySafety Communications
How many police officers are on campus?
Twenly-one armed officers constitute the police staff. They are empowered to make 
an arrest on Carnegie Mellon property or any areas adjacent to the university. 
Additionally, there are 25 security guards, five radio dispatchers and two traffic 
monitors on the staff. Fool patrols by guards support the officers’ surveillance of 
the campus academic buildings and residence halls.
What can the officers do in an emergency?
Olficers, including three sergeants, a lieutenant and the director of security, are 
sworn and commissioned under the General Laws of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. They are certified under Act 235 prior to duty and receive firearms 
and Emergency Medical Training. Officers also receive specialized training in 
current concerns, such as auto theft, drug awareness, crime search procedure and 
hazardous materials. Sworn officers receive Iheir authority from Act 501 of the 
Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes. The Act reads: "Such policemen, so 
appointed, shall severally possess and exercise all the powers of a police officer in 
this Commonwealth, in and upon, and in the immediate and adjacent vicinity of, 
the property of the corporation." Officers are also trained under Act 120 — 
Municipal Police Training and Education Act.
What authority do security guards have?
While they are not sworn officers, each guard receives orientation training in areas 
such as building security, key control, procedures related to arrests by officers, 
and criminal and patrol procedures. Guards also train in specialty areas including 
medical emergencies and hazardous wastes. They assist the campus police in all 
of these areas.
How do the security guards supplement campus police patrols?
The guards regularly patrol academic buildings and residence halls ev6ry night of 
the year. During the day, two traffic monitors also patrol campus parking areas.
A Safe City and Campus
What about crime in Pittsburgh?
Pittsburgh's relatively low incidence of crime, along with its educational, cultural, 
sports and geographic benefits, helped to secure its status as the most livable city 
in America. The City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County Police Forces, as well as 
the Pennsylvania Stale Police and the FBI, are the major elements in a crime- 
prevention network that includes the campus police departments of all Pittsburgh 
colleges and universities. Students attending Carnegie Mellon benefit from the 
cooperative relationship Campus Police enjoys with federal, state, county and city 
police agencies.
What does this cooperation involve?
The university’s Department of Security participates with area law enforcement 
agencies in apprehending alleged criminals and in joint crime prevention 
programs, training classes, community service activities and memberships in 
mutual professional organizations.
How are crimes on campus reported and to whom?
It is important that all crimes occurring on campus be immediately reported to 
Campus Police to ensure that appropriate action is taken.
Crimes occurring on campus can be reported in person, or by calling Campus 
Police at 268-2323 any time of the day or night.
What happens when a student discovers a theft or other crime?
Reports of theft or other crimes are reported to Campus Police for investigation. 
Resident assistants are key in reporting criminal activity in the residence halls, and 
are required to keep a log of incidents occurring during their shifts. When 
appropriate, staff from Housing or Student Affairs may be involved in answering a 
call for assistance.
What about reporting Incidents outside of the residence halls?
There are 34 police emergency phones located across the campus. Without 
dialing, the caller is immediately in contact with the Campus Police. The location 
of the call is automatically recorded and response is immediate. Campus Police 
may also be reached by calling 268-2323, or simply 82323 on any campus phone.
Are firearms permitted on campus?
No. The university prohibits the possession or use of firearms, as well as any other 
weapons, in or near the residence halls, or on university property. Only sworn 
Campus Police personnel are authorized to carry weapons while on duty. While off 
duty, no member of the department is permitted to possess a weapon on campus 
property. Police training includes daylight and nighttime qualification with firearms 
training including the legal, moral and practical aspects of carrying a weapon.
Does the university consider criminal records in admission 
or employment?
Yes, for specific job classifications, such as security personnel. The application for 
admission to Carnegie Mellon does not request information concerning any 
previous criminal convictions; consequently the criminal records of applicants for 
admission to the university are not reviewed by the Office of Admission. The 
university recognizes its responsibility to ensure the safety of the campus 
community and therefore evaluates an enrolled student’s status with the university 
in the event of his or her criminal conviction in public court.
What Is the university's disciplinary role if a student is convicted 
of a criminal offense?
The University Committee on Discipline may review the case when a student has 
been convicted in public courts of serious crimes. Special attention is given to 
circumstances which constitute a potential threat against the university’s ability to 
function in whole or in part. In such a review the committee will determine whether 
the student’s presence at the university will endanger the university community.
For details on the disciplinary review of students, consult the Student Handbook.
How is the campus environment maintained for safe lighting 
and walkways?
Security personnel assess the physical condition of campus facilities — including 
landscaping, grounds keeping and outdoor lighting — on their regular patrols 
of university property. All security staff and members of the campus community 
can report deficient physical conditions to the university’s Physical Plant via 
the campus-wide electronic mail system or by calling the Department of Security 
directly.
How are university facilities and programs accessible to students, 
employees and guests?
As a private university, Carnegie Mellon does have the right to limit access to its 
campus and to control activities on the campus. Bui, in the spirit of academic 
freedom and free expression of ideas, the university permits and encourages 
freedom of speech and assembly by all persons. This includes the distribution of 
leaflets and petitions, as well as demonstrations or protests involving speaking, 
discussion or the distribution ol information outside university buildings.
What restrictions apply to such activities?
The only limits on these activities are the rights of the members of the university 
community and the maintenance of the normal functioning of the university. No 
activities which harm individuals, damage or deface property, block access to 
university buildings or disrupt classes will be permitted. Public events, such as 
lectures, plays and concerts, are, of course, open to the community on a ticket or 
free admission basis.
What types of student housing are available?
Carnegie Mellon has a number of traditional residence halls with common balh 
facilities as well as a number of residence halls with private or semi-private baths.
A number of single sex areas as well as some co-ed facilities are available for 
undergraduates. As a rule, areas may be co-ed or single sex as balhroom facilities 
permit. Also offered are a variety of apartment spaces both on-campus in 
university-owned buildings as well as off-campus in buildings rented for 
undergraduate housing.
How are room reguests handled?
The university's housing system is basically a seniority one: with seniors choosing 
first, followed by juniors and then by sophomores. In March, upperclassmen may 
select Iheir roommales and specific rooms in seniority order for the fall semester. 
The university traditionally assigns between 1,000 and 1,100 entering freshmen to 
available spaces. The order in which freshmen pay their deposits to the Office of 
Admission determines the order in which housing preference requests are honored. 
The university is normally able to accommodale preferences for assignment to 
single sex areas, but assignment to co-ed areas is not always possible.
Can students change rooms during the semester?
Housing assignments are virtually immutable at Ihe beginning of the fall semester, 
but once into the academic year room change requests can be accommodated. The 
best time to make a room change is at the end of the fall semester, when Ihe 
university traditionally has well over 100 vacancies to offer students who request 
room changes.
How are guests admitted or identified in the residence halls?
All university buildings are locked and permit entrance only to people with keys or 
people accompanying residents who have their own keys. At the three buildings 
with front desks, visitors are asked to present their Carnegie Mellon photo ID card. 
Olher individuals are directed to the centrex telephone to call the student whom Ihey 
are visiling to meet them at the front desk.
How are the entrances of buildings secured?
Every outside door is checked daily to ensure the entrance is functioning properly. 
The university has replaced the fire alarm system in several of our buildings, w[iere 
Ihe plan is to use one door as a main entrance and exit and to have Ihe side doors 
operate only as emergency exits. All of our residence halls will soon be on a similar 
plan with only one entrance and exit. Side doors would operate only when a lire 
alarm is pulled or during a power outage or similar emergency.
What are the standard security features used in the residence halls?
Rooms in the university’s residence halls are secured by the Best Locking System.
In most cases, these locks are bolt locks which provide an optimum degree of 
security for individual rooms. When residenls report keys missing or lost, or fail to 
return keys at the end of Ihe academic year, the university quickly changes the lock 
and issues new keys to the residents. The university's procedure assures that only 
the current residents of a particular room have keys to that room. All of the first floor 
dormitory screens are “security screens,” constructed of a heavy mesh in frames _ 
attached to the window frame ilself.
Who is “on-duty" at the residence halls?
The university relies on the strength of its competent resident assistant (RA) staff. 
There are four full-time professional residence life administrators, called area 
coordinators, and 70 student resident assistants who live in the residence halls 
and have a variety ol responsibilities for administering Ihe halls.
How are student housing residents informed about security 
procedures and enforcement?
Via Student Affairs, the resident assistance staff is regularly informed, as is the 
campus community, of various health and safety concerns. All resident assistants 
receive an extensive week-long training session for preparation in aiding and 
advising students in all non-academic issues. Campus Police sanctioned personal 
safely practices are taught to the RAs who then advise residents through bulletin 
boards, meetings and workshops as needed, including programs to heighten 
student awareness of personal concerns such as the dangers of drug and alcohol 
abuse and the problems of suicide and acquaintance rape. Security information 
programs are presented by security personnel to resident students at least once an 
academic year with special attention to those areas which may be experiencing 
unusual security problems, as well as off-campus rental units in locations where 
students have to walk on public streets to travel to and from campus.
Are there special security procedures during low-occupancy periods 
such as holidays and vacation periods?
During Thanksgiving break and spring break special attention is given to making 
sure that buildings stay locked and secure with extra security monitoring. During 
the winter break (from mid-December to mid-January) all but one of Ihe residence 
facilities are locked and inaccessible by the normal residents. Morewood Gardens 
is offered as an alternative for those students who cannot travel (approximately 30 
or 40 students). Morewood Gardens is monitored via its front desk on a 24-hour 
basis. The Campus Police naturally increase their patrols of Morewood Gardens 
area during the winter break's low occupancy period.
What is the university's policy on the housing of guests?
Generally, guests are allowed in residence hall rooms if all residents of the room 
agree to the arrangement. University policy permits students to have guests stay in 
Iheir room for two days before obtaining permission from the Housing Office to 
allow for a longer stay. With that exception, we are not normally able to provide 
housing for guests of students or nonstudents during the academic year. Vacancies 
where they exist are only offered as permanent spaces to other undergraduates 
interested in living in university housing for the remainder of the academic year.
The housing office can answer specific questions regarding the availability of 
accommodations for students and guests.
How is the campus community informed of the security, safety 
procedures and crime prevention programs?
Campus media and publications specific to security and safety issues regularly 
carry news and information for the university communily. Weekly media include the 
student newspaper, The Tartan, and The 8-1/2 x 11 News. A brochure about the 
Campus Police offers details of shuttle and escort services for students. The Student 
Handbooks updated annually and provides details about policies and procedures. 
The widely read campus computer bulletin board is also used as an immediate 
means of communication.
The Campus Watch Program
The Campus Watch Program is designed to increase the awareness of the entire 
community at Carnegie Mellon. The concept of Campus Watch includes two 
simple aims:
1. The sharing of crime information by Campus Police.
2. The involvement of the entire community in reporting suspicious activity or 
actual crime commission.
Crime Alerts
Campus Police issues alerts to the community about recently committed crimes. 
These include crimes committed on the campus as well as in the neighborhoods of 
the city surrounding the university. These alerts are issued about crime that is a 
threat to members of the campus community. Crime Alerts give as much detail as 
possible about the crime itself, as well as any description of suspects or vehicle. 
Names of victims are never included in the alerts. The alerts end with tips to avoid 
becoming a victim.
Newsletters
The Department of Security publishes a monthly newsletter, the “Crime Watch."T\\e 
newsletter provides a summary of crime during the past month. It also advises the 
campus about recent crime trends such as con artists or harassing phone calls. 
Seasonal alerts will be presented to help inform the campus about expected crime. 
Specialized crime tips will be presented about topics such as how to safely use the 
Automatic Banking Machines.
Crime Prevention Education
Through the year, the Security Department’s Crime Prevention Unit is available to 
present safety and security seminars in residence halls, department offices and any 
other setting both on and off campus. These seminars can be tailored to meet the 
needs of the group. The topics range from personal safety, rape prevention, residence 
security, office security, self-defense tactics, vehicle theft and other topics. These 
seminars can be arranged by calling the Campus Police at ext. 82323.
Drugs and Alcohol
What is Carnegie Mellon’s policy on alcoholic beverages and drugs?
The university’s faculty, administrators and staff recognize the responsibility 
and potential harm inherent in the use of alcoholic beverages. The university is 
committed to support the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and 
reflects that support in its policies and procedures.
What is the Pennsylvania law concerning alcoholic beverages?
The Commonwealth law states that a person who is less than 21 years of age and 
who attempts to purchase, purchases, consumes, possesses or knowingly and 
intentionally transports any alcohol, liquor or malt beverages within the state 
commits a summary offense. Misrepresentation of age to a licensed dealer or 
other persons who sell or furnish intoxicating liquors constitutes a third degree 
misdemeanor. Likewise, a person commits a third degree misdemeanor for selling 
or providing alcoholic beverages to a known minor.
What is the policy for alcoholic beverages on campus or at 
Carnegie Mellon events?
The university follows the Commonwealth's law regarding intoxicating beverages. 
Students are expected to conduct themselves both individually and collectively in a 
responsible manner. Abusive or excessive consumption of alcohol resulting in 
interference with the rights of other persons, personal injury or damage to property 
will result in severe disciplinary action. Violations of the university’s policy can lead 
to a fine imposed by the university and the possibility of suspension and expulsion. 
Planning Social Events with Alcohol: Things You Should Know is a brochure 
that outlines the university policy on alcohol and includes a form outlining the 
responsibility involved with serving alcohol at an event. For more information, 
refer to the Student Handbook or contact Student Affairs.
What about drugs on campus?
Campus Police are instructed to turn over to the Narcotics Squad of the Pittsburgh 
Police any significant quantity of dangerous drugs discovered in the course of 
performing their duty. The medically unsupervised use or distribution of potentially 
harmful drugs such as marijuana, hallucinogens, amphetamines, barbituates and 
opiates is illegal and subject to very harsh penalties. While the university does not 
assume the responsibility of acting as an arm of the law, members of the academic 
community have no immunity from the enforcement of thelaw. Distribution and use 
of these drugs may threaten the physical and mental health of the user, as well as 
the welfare of other students and the academic community. The disciplinary policy 
of the university permits taking action beyond, or separate from, any which may be 
taken by civil authorities. Also, the university cannot and does not deny access to its • 
property to law enforcement agents seeking to uphold the Federal and Pennsylvania 
Drug Laws. The Student Handbook further outlines Carnegie Mellon’s drug policy.
This report is published in compliance with 
Pennsylvania Legislative Act 73, Section 3:
Crime Statistics Reports and Security Policies and 
Procedures, and Federal Public Law 101-542, Title II, 
“Crime Awareness and Campus Security Act of 1990.’
For additional copies or more information, 
contact the Department of Security at 412-268-2323. 
Published January 1994.
CarnegieMellon

---------------------------------------------------

giM gHtáHb ( ,HtbMAEM eMTTPb ( ) eHt7i &::-)
Commission issues final report on status, role of women
REPORT, from page 1
to the report: faculty and student re­
cruitment and development, sexual 
harassment and “chilly” academic en­
vironments, supervisor-staff relations, 
and salary differences.
The commission found that about nine 
percent of all tenured faculty members 
in 1992 were women, a noticeable in­
crease from the eight percent rate of 
1987, but one that is growing slowly,
and remains less than at similar univer­
sities. In fact, Carnegie Mellon’s per­
centage of tenured female faculty ranks 
the lowest among 30 universities, in­
cluding Cornell, Rice, and some Univer­
sity of California schools.
Sexual harassment and sexual assault 
are also problems, says the report. Infor­
mal testimony from women in focus 
groups suggests “that members of the 
community have only a vague idea of
policies” relating to sexual harassment 
and may not know the proper channels 
for grievance procedures.
The commission listed dozens of rec­
ommendations designed to address some 
of these issues. The recommendations 
ranged from better record-keeping of 
female hiring information, to sensitivity 
seminars for new faculty hires, to publi­
cizing paths for handling sexual harass­
ment complaints.
The report also recommended “that a 
procedure be developed ... to publicize 
data both with regard to sexual harass­
ment and sexual assault.” The Univer­
sity currently keeps all complaints con­
fidential and does not release summary 
statistics.
The commission did find some areas 
where “Carnegie Mellon has made 
progress in gender issues,” especially 
programs conducted by Student Affairs,
Department of Human Resources, and 
University Teaching Center. The report 
praised these seminars and workshops, 
but said the administration must still 
“institute a number of specific changes : 
in its organizational practices,” includ­
ing investigating and reporting its 
changes on an continuing basis.
The complete text of the final report 
can be found in the most recent issue of 
Carnegie Melton News.
BiHUM ápP P. OtP7MUU UMá áP cMAEb
HOUSING, from page 1
reaction when the card was cut open was, “That 
¡ticks so much ass!” Naviwala and his roommate 
are looking into Welsh or Henderson for the fall 
and even with a number six, they are still skepti­
cal. “I was happy, however I’m not confident be­
cause of the upperclassmen who get to pick before 
me, so I do have alternatives ready,” said Naviwala.
So far, says Amy Ginther, assistant director of 
housing for operatons, students who have been 
displaced from Carol and Tudor are “tunneling 
themselves where we expected.” About half of the 
residents have expressed interest in the newly- 
leased Cathedral Mansions spaces, and the other 
half has shown interest in Fairfax apartments. On 
March 10, between 4:30 and 6:30 pm, those stu­
dents will have the opportunity to go through 
Phase Two with their priority status.
Although students have offered alternatives to 
the lottery system, most colleges and universities 
are under the same plan.
The University of Pittsburgh only guarantees 
housing for the first two years; after the sophomore 
year, most students end up moving off campus. Pitt 
has used the lottery system for a number of years 
but this year they began using computer-picked 
lottery numbers.
Duquesne University operates on a lottery sys­
tem much like CMU’s, but the university’s housing 
policies have some substantial differences. Large 
groups of the same sex, with a minimum of 12 
people, can apply to live as a group to live in “group 
housing.”
Duquesne has space to accommodate students
for four years, and this year they introduced a new 
“perk” called the Housing Expo. The university 
asked its vendors to donate prizes, and invited 
parents and students to attend this kickoff to the 
room selection process. Tim Lewis, from Duquesne’s 
Office of Residence Life, said that approximately 
450 students and 30 parents attended the event, 
which included music and free food.
The Housing Office said that each year it ob­
serves the process in order to make improvements 
in the future. This year Ginther said the lines 
seemed longer in the afternoon than ever before 
and the morning stayed light.
Ginther said “We’ll try to address [the problem] 
in the future. Next year, if Phase One falls after 
semester break, Housing may wait until Wednes­
day to start the draw in order to get students back 
into the groove.”
Phase Two begins on Monday, March 14. Up­
dates on selected rooms will be available “on-line” 
and instructions concerning how to access the 
information is posted to the org.housing.room- 
draw bboard. Floor plans will also be posted in the 
Morewood Rec Room during selection and those 
rooms that have been taken will be indicated.
Students will also notice an increase in price for 
the fall. Ginther said that Housing had to figure 
out “what our budgetary needs were, what kind of 
income do we need coming into the system in order 
to maintain and improve the system.”
The prices of standard and prime singles, and 
double and single suites have increased 2.5 per­
cent; prime doubles, 3 percent; and standard 
doubles, triples, and quads 3.5 percent.
/o,g will move to MMP storefront
WRCT, from page 1
as the other places fell through,” 
said Binstock. “It fits in terms of 
size, and it’s acoustically sound, 
so it works.”
The Club will be vacated dur­
ing spring break so that renova­
tions can begin. “We’re going to 
have to do quite a bit of renova­
tion,” said Auterman. “We’ll be 
building walls for the studios, 
and we have to change the locker 
room into offices. We also have 
to reinforce [the second floor] for 
our record library.”
The station has budgeted 
$75,000 for renovations. Au­
terman said that they hope to 
have the work completed within 
a week before the May 15 dead­
line to move out of Skibo Hall. 
“We’re aiming for uninterrupted 
operations,” he said.
Binstock said that the Univer­
sity is not closing the Club for
financial reasons. “The Caber 
Club, over its life, has either made 
a little bit of money, broke even, 
or lost money,” he said, “but it 
hasn’t been a financial drain.” 
He said that the University gave 
the Caber Club a set of param­
eters it was supposed to operate 
within, and that it has stayed 
within them.
“The concept of the Caber Club 
has always been very simple: dis­
tinct, individualized, personal­
ized training,” said Binstock. 
“You work with apersonal trainer 
for the duration of the program.”
Binstock said that discussions 
were held with the Athletics 
Department to see if they wanted 
to continue the mission of the 
Caber Club.
The department felt that the 
Club’s mission differed from 
theirs, because the department’s 
mission to provide services with­
out fees, and the Caber Club op­
erated on a fee-for-membership 
basis. Binstock said that some of 
the Club’s equipment will go to 
the Gym.
One obstacle still facing WRCT 
is the new studio-transmitter 
link that will need to be installed. 
Auterman said the station has 
two options: running a wire un­
derground, which could be diffi­
cult with construction underway 
at the University Center site; or, 
running a low-wattage micro­
wave link with the transmitter, 
which would require FCC ap­
proval.
Binstock said that those people 
who have paid their member­
ships in advance will receive pro­
rated refunds of the balance of 
their memberships. People who 
have been having the cost de­
ducted from their paychecks will 
see those deductions stop.
Correction...
The caption on the photo accompanying last week’s story, “CMU plans housing changes,” was 
inrorrect. The University is leasing apartments in theCathedral Mansions building. The story itself 
«is correct . The Tartan regrets the error and any confusion that it may have caused.
TfieTartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, contact Tartan Editor- 
in -Chief Andrew Sproule at x8-2111, or write him in rare of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE _
Meeting of 1 March 1994
Roll was taken at 7 pm. Meet­
ing was called to order at 7:10.
Senators Present: Alzona 
(Misc.), Baron (GSIA), Calhoon 
(GSIA), Carter (CIT), Demasi 
(MCS), Dien (CFA), Gach (CFA), 
Gonzalez (M. at L.), Gosden (IM), 
Holzman (CIT), Jurgovsky (IM), 
Kandlikar (CIT), Kim (CFA), 
Landay (SCS), Landers (SCS), 
Mallo (CIT), Merrill (MCS), Mot- 
: ley (CIT), O’Connor (GSIA), 
Palmer (H&SS), Riley (CIT), 
Rossander (GSIA), Schulte
(H&SS), Slawson (CIT), Trexel 
(IM), Wang (CIT), White (H&SS), 
Wolfson (H&SS).
[...]
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Ben Wang): We’ve already 
received 14 applications for the 
college bowl. There are only a 
total ofl6spots available, so sign 
up quickly. Tournaments will be 
March 12inBH235AandB. Sign 
up forms at Skibo Info desk. We 
also need volunteers to help us 
run the college bowl. Pick up ap­
plications to volunteer at the 
Skibo Info Desk.
GSO (Craig Brown): On March
18, we will have a fundraiser in 
the Coffeehouse to fund moving 
to the new Coffeehouse. There
will be several bands playing —• 
Painted Mice and others are con­
firmed and we are working on 
getting others. The cost is $5 a 
person, and bring a friend, or tell 
a friend because we can’t adver­
tise this.
[...]
Student Affairs (Pat Hamed): 
Several positions in Residence 
Life have become available and 
we need people to be on commit­
tees to conduct nationwide 
searches. Call Tim Foster at x8- 
2141 if you’re interested.
[...]
Treasurer (Declan McCul- 
lagh): My aides are looking at 12 
organizations who went more 
than $100 over budget last year, 
it cost us approximately $20,000 
to pay for these groups. We will
also audit major organizations.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Kami 
White): The Acting Registrar will 
come to talk to Senate about plus/ 
minus grading and registration 
issues on March 8.
[...]
Chair (Burt Holzman): Key 
cards will be available next week. 
I will wait until after tonight’s 
vote to decide on the ad hoc com­
mittee on computer security. We 
need nominations for university 
committees. They are due by April 
5 in Michael Murphy’s office. The 
committees for which positons are 
available are: Academic Review 
Board, Design Review Commit­
tee (1-2), Health Services and
Insurance Advisory Committee 
(4-6), Ryan Award Committee 
(2), Sexual Harrassment Com­
mittee (2), 4 Trustee Committees 
(total 4—8), Undergraduate Aca­
demic Advising Award Commit­
tee (2), Univrsity Committee on 
Discipline (6-12), University 
Parking Committee (2-4), Uni­
versity Student Affairs Council 
(2-4), Vice President’s Student 
Advisory Committee (6—12).
Unfinished Business
• Resolutions S94-01 and S94- 
02: [Ed. note: Excerpts from the 
resolutions can be found on page
3. The complete text, and the 
amendments to the original reso­
lution, can be obtained from Stu­
dent Senate.]
New Business from the
floor: 1. Vacancies: Troy Ben- 
owitz and Chris Mega filled the 2 
H&SS vacancies.
Points of Discussion: Call­
ing the previous question; per­
sonal attacks on the bboard.
Announcements: There are 
vacancies in 1 CFA and 1 Heinz. 
Deadline for petitions is Satur­
day, March 12, at noon.
Meeting adjourned at 8:43 pm.
Ed. note: an ellipsis in brackets 
[...] indicates that a section has 
been omitted.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER
Edited by 
JASON TOGYER
Carnegie Mellon sheds some light on campus security
There’s no reason to be in the dark about campus security. A team of Carnegie Mellon police officers, security guards, and housing and student affairs staff members work to keep students, faculty, staff 
and visitors informed and safe on the campus and adjacent areas. These professionals are concerned with the safety and welfare of the campus community and are hest able to answer questions about 
campus security.
The Carnegie Mellon CommunityCarnegie Mellon.llniversity Department of Security Crime Statistics Report
Categories of Crime
1991 
Statistics Rates
1992 
Statistics Rates
1993 
Statistics Rates
Murder & Nonnegligent Manslaughter000000
Manslaughter by Neqiiaence000000
Forcible Rape000000
Robbery0010.120.2
Aggravated Assault0020.200
Burglary-Breaking and Entering252.4161.580.7
Larceny-Thelt (Except M.V. Thelt)28126.926625.324322.8
Motor Vehicle Thelt201.950.560.6
Other Assaults101.090.910.1
Arson0010.100
Forgery & Counterfeiting0 .010.100
Fraud000000
Stolen Property: Rec., Poss., Buying30.380.800
Vandalism11511.0938.9635.9
Weapons. Carrying, Possession0010.110.1
Liquor Laws555.3353.3141.3
Sex Offenses (Except Rape & Prostitution)0030.30_0____
Drug Abuse Violations0010.120.2
Drunkenness40.430.3111.0
Disorderly Conduct11511.01049.9454.2
Vagrancy000000
All Other Offenses (Except Traffic)20820.015715.010710.0
(for the 1992-93Academic Year)
Full-Time Part-TimeTotal
Undergraduates4,253 1354,388
Graduate students1,930 7732,703
Non-degree students12 156168
Employees (non-sludent)2,902 5183,420
Total10,679
Arrest Statistics
Categories ol Crimes
1991 1992 
Statistics Statistics
1993
Statistics
Liquor Laws Violation55 3525
Drug Abuse Violations0 12
I Weapons Possessions Violations 0 1 1
This report is published in compliance with Pennsylvania Legislative 
Act /3, Section 3: Crime Statistics Reports and Security Policies and 
Procedures, and Federal Public Law 101-542, Title II, “Crime 
Awareness and Campus Security Act of 1990."
For additional copies or more information, 
contact the Department of Security at 412-268-2323.
Published January 1994.
CarnegieMellon
Crime rates are based on the numbers and categories of crime, divided by the university's total number of students and employees. 
Figures are per one thousand headcount.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
CMU must live up to 
promise of teaching
In recruitment literature and 
what the campus community is 
officially told, the University ad­
ministration insists that it is 
committed to teaching at the 
undergraduate level. Reality, 
however, suggests otherwise. 
The fact is, many CMU profes­
sors prioritize research over 
teaching, and the University 
does little to change this 
mindset.
The high number of classes 
taught by teaching assistants is 
a good example of CMU’s re- 
search-oriented mentality. In 
theory, TAs are supposed to as­
sist professors in teaching large 
courses and teach basic skills 
classes; professors are supposed 
to handle more advanced 
courses. Y et TAs routinely teach 
advanced-level classes as well 
as introductory ones, and some 
professors do not teach even one 
class during a given year. While 
some TAs do a very good job at 
teaching , we wonder if there is 
a dire shortage of qualified pro­
fessors on this campus. Or, are 
the professors who are already 
here occupied with other tasks 
besides teaching?
Most professors are involved 
with research, and there’s cer­
tainly nothing wrong with that. 
In fact, CMU’s outstanding 
reputation in research has dis­
tinguished it as a leading insti­
tution in such diverse fields as 
computer science, psychology, 
and English. We applaud the 
University for fostering an en­
vironment which encourages 
research, and we urge it to con­
tinue to do so.
At the same time, however, 
we recognize that the 
University’s reputation carries 
with it the risk of placing much 
emphasis on research. This 
“publish or perish” mentality 
poses a constant danger to the 
University’s overall quality. If 
professors are constantly occu­
pied with their research, they 
may neglect their primary goal 
of teaching. This shortchang­
ing of students is unacceptable, 
considering that tuition costs 
are rising each year.
We are not suggesting that 
research be neglected in favor 
of teaching; rather, we would 
like to see more of a balance 
between the two. There are ways 
to achieve this balance. First, 
professors should be required 
to teach at least one course per 
year. The administration should 
also pay more attention to how 
students rate professors in Fac- 
ulty/Course Evaluations, and 
require a teaching skills semi­
nar for faculty who rate poorly. 
The University should also ac­
tively recruit faculty who are 
enthusiastic about teaching as 
well as research.
Excellent professors certainly 
exist at CMU, and we’d like to 
give them credit where credit is 
due. They’re doing a great job, 
and we’re pleased that they’re 
here. But we need more like 
them. If the administration 
were to put a little more effort 
into achieving this worthwhile 
goal, the University would 
surely reap great benefits.
Flaws in University 
Center must be fixed
Immediately after graduation, 
construction of the long-prom­
ised, University Center is sup­
posed to begin. Pardon our skep­
ticism, but if this is actually the 
case, we feel there are some prob­
lems with the current plans.
We would like to offer some 
suggestions, and pose a few 
questions.
To begin with, the new Uni­
versity Center will theoretically 
consist of individual sealed 
buildings all under one roof. This 
will mean that all these spaces 
that have completely different 
services will all be grouped to­
gether. This seems to be a poor 
design decision.10 years ago, an award win­
ning design was selected for the 
University Center but, because 
of several alterations to the origi­
nal, it is a completely different 
building. Why is this? It’s un- 
I fortunate that a university with 
; an outstanding architecture pro- 
! gram can’t design a functional,
; aesthetically pleasing building 
; for their students to be proud of.
1 Maybe it would have been a 
; good idea to consult our archi- 
1 tecture students and get some 
input from them. We don’t need 
; another Cyert Hall. We wnat 
prospective students to look at 
; the new building and want to 
come here, not run away in fear.
The University center is going 
: to contain a swimming pool, 
raquetball and squash courts, 
and a weight room. These kind
of things belong in a gym, not a 
student center. The school has 
needed a new gym for quite a 
while now, but sticking these 
things in the University center 
is not the way to solve the prob­
lem — building a new gym is.
Another problem with the Uni­
versity center is that it is a 
sealed building. It will require 
all ventilated air and no win­
dows can be opened. Natural 
light will be at a minimum. We 
have already seen many prob­
lems with Cyert Hall which is 
also a sealed building. 
Continous complaints and em­
ployee dissatisfaction because 
of Cyert being sealed is prob­
ably not what the University 
should shoot for in the Univer­
sity center.
The dining areas are going to 
shrink from what they currently 
are. Thsi will obviously cause 
problems beingthat duringpeak 
hours, seating in dining areas 
are already a problem.
With the construction of the 
new University Center, the front 
parking lot will be lost causing 
an even greater parking prob­
lem. We were told that there 
would be a surfeit of parking 
because the Morewood lot was 
repainted, but there still seems 
to be a lack of spaces. Where are 
students going to park?
And what’s with the name 
“University Center”? How bor­
ing. It should still be called 
Skibo for tradition sake.
Letters to the Editor
Zeta article 
missed facts
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am writing to ex- 
press my concern 
over an article 
printed in The Tar­
tan [“Zeta Sig strives 
for recognition, despite size,” 2/14] about 
the women’s organization, Zeta Psi 
Sigma. I spent a lot of time with the 
reporter before he wrote the article, be­
cause I know that the issues involved 
are very complicated. I am extremely 
disappointed to see that he was unable 
to get his facts straight in order to present 
an objective, informative article.
The article misrepresents the recogni­
tion process that Zeta Psi Sigma, or any 
other group, must go through to be rec­
ognized as a Greek organization. The 
Panhel Bylaws were not written specifi­
cally for the women of Zeta, but were 
created as a general document to be 
used now and in the future. These women 
merely prompted this action because 
they are the only group to have asked for 
local recognition at CMU. The bylaws 
committee put enormous amounts of 
thought, time, and effort into creating a 
reasonable, fair document. The bylaws 
themselves (which I guess the reporter 
forgot to read) state a number of require­
ments for recognition. The membership 
requirement was very misrepresented 
in the article. The local group must be at 
least two-thirds total (33 women), and 
all sororities must be at four-fifths total 
(40 women). These rules, however, are 
not the only ones that apply. There are 
no groups under the four-fifths mark 
right now, and this is not even the only 
prerequisite for recognition, as the ar­
ticle suggests. Even if every national 
sorority was right at total (50 members), 
Zeta is still not yet eligible for recogni­
tion. Any interested group must first 
declare existence to Panhel, and may 
apply for recognition in the fifth semes­
ter following formal declaration. The 
Greek advisor must be invited to Rush 
events, and the group must have a con­
stitution, bylaws, statement of purpose, 
and developed philanthropic program. 
Unlike what the article falsely states, 
Greek Council does not have any right to 
recognize Greek organizations. There is 
nothing to support this power in the 
Greek Council constitution, which was
rewritten early last year. This is the 
responsibility and prerogative of Panhel, 
according to our national constitution 
and bylaws.
Panhel hopes that in the future we can 
recognize groups who wish to become 
recognized local sororities and eventu­
ally receive national affiliation. We want 
to support groups that have proven their 
strength and commitment to the Greek 
ideals we believe in and respect. I resent 
the article’s insinuations about Panhel’s 
unwillingness to cooperate with the 
women of Zeta. We don’t expect anyone 
to “obey” us in a negative or offensive 
way, as the tone suggests. We want to 
work with groups seeking National 
Panhellenic status to help them achieve 
this goal. Instead of being shown as the 
“bad guy,” the members of Panhel should 
be respected and commended for their 
efforts in dealing with a difficult situa­
tion. Processes like these take time and 
patience on everyone’s part.
Joanne Kievan
Panhellenic Council President
Students left 
out in the cold
much money for housing and tuition a 
on-campus students and have a right to 
safe, convenient transportation to class.
The work ethic goes both ways. If the 
administration expects students to goto 
class, it must provide a way for students 
who live in University housing to get to 
campus. If winterizing the shuttle and 
escort vehicles or hiring more experi­
enced drivers is what’s necessary, then 
the administration must do it. The Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, which ran its 
shuttle nonstop all night during the 
snowstorm, has shown it’s possible.
It remains for Carnegie Mellon, sup­
posedly an elite, private institution, to 
follow the lead of its more accommodat­
ing public neighbor in providing ser­
vices for its community.
Declan McCullagh 
Senior, Cognitive Science
Rabbi condemns 
massacre
o%
to the Editor
Editor:
Carnegie Mellon 
lived up to its tradi­
tional work ethic last 
week when President 
Robert Mehrabian
on
Letter to 
the Editor
refused to close the school during last 
Wednesday’s blizzard. This decision is 
understandable, for students pay dearly 
for their education and should get the 
most for their money. Unfortunately, 
they’re not. When campus security halted 
Shuttle service around 5:30 pm on the 
day of the snowstorm, it stranded hun­
dreds of students on campus and pre­
vented dozens more who live in off-cam- 
pus University housing from attending 
evening classes.
Cancelling vital campus services like 
Shuttle and Escort with no advance 
warning is indefensible. Students were 
left to fend for themselves, faced with 
the equally unpleasant choices of trudg­
ing home miles in the cold or waiting up 
to five hours for a cab. Students living in 
University off-campus housing like Tu­
dor, Carol, or Fairfax apartments were 
unable to get to campus in time for 
evening classes. These students pay as
Editor:
As the Executive 
Director of the Hillel.,.
Foundation for Cam- LGttQF tO 
pus Jewish Life serv- 
ing more than 1000 the Ed,t°r 
students at Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity, let me offer sincerest condolences to 
the families of the victims of the Hebron 
massacre, and the Palestinian people.
We, the Foundation for Campus Jew­
ish Life, stand by Israeli Prime Minister 
Yitzhak Rabin in his condemnation of 
this “loathsome, criminal act of mur­
der,” We affirm President Ezer Weiz- 
man’s statement that “there is no under­
standing, no forgiveness, and no atone­
ment for this horrible act.” Finally, £ 
spokespeople for the Jewish presence on 
campus, we unite with the Jewish people 
behind the statement of Israeli Chief 
Rabbi Yisrael Meir Lau: “It is a desecra­
tion of God’s name to connect faith to 
this incident.” The perpetrator of the 
Hebron massacre is a terrorist, who in 
no way represents the hopes, dreams, 
and ideals of the Jewish people. The 
greatest possible memorial to the vic­
tims of this tragedy is for all parties in 
the Middle East to intensify their efforts 
towards a just and lasting peace.
Rabbi Art Donsky 
Executive Director, Hillel
Students deserve basic rights
Eric J. Salzman
The following is the college student’s bill of rights. I find it 
necessary to create this mini-constitution, because students 
and faculty alike often forget what the student’s rights are. 
As a college student, you have the right to:
1. Be confused. Many students at Carnegie Mellon know 
exactly what they want to do. There are the architects, the 
engineers, the computer programmers, the actors, the paint­
ers, and so on. To those of you who know exactly what you 
want to do and where your lives are headed, congratulations! 
However, because of the many students here who have 
specific goals, those who do not know exactly what they want 
to do feel pressured to figure it out. Well, you don’t have to. 
Most universities have students without the slightest idea 
about what they want to do, so be confused! Confusion is one
of the only natural states of bliss that can be reached without 
illegal substances, so enjoy it while you can.
2. Think. Perhaps the most important right that a student 
has is the right to think. Your professors and TAs are not right 
just because they say so. Do you disagree with what they say? 
If so, tell them what you think. You do not have to write the 
answers that you think they want. You do not have to conform 
to their beliefs and ideas. You are a human being with i 
working brain. Don’t fear it. Don’t suppress it. You have the 
right to use it.
3. Sleep. What’s the rule at Carnegie Mellon? You can only 
sleep on alternate Sundays if there was a full moon the night 
before and you have a note from your parents? Hmm, I don’t 
think so. Believe it or not, if you don’t sleep, your mind doesn't 
work as well as it should. (This probably leads to a lot of the 
apathy on campus.) Yes, your work is very important and is a 
high priority for the college student, but it’s no reason to 
destroy your body.
4. Complain about the food. It’s unfortunate that more of our 
founding fathers were not on the meal plan at their universi'
Please see STUDENTS, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 19949
Propaganda comes in many guises
David Hunt
The Holocaust is a hoax.
Take a moment to think about how that 
claim made you feel. I chose it hoping that 
there wouldn’t be a single reader who 
didn’t have an angry reaction. Before 
start screaming at me, let me 
reassure everyone that I do not believe it, 
and it saddens me to think that there 
might be those who agree with it. My 
point was to demonstrate that in the span 
of one sentence of just five words, I could 
make you go from benign interest to see­
ing some shade of red against me. It’s a 
powerful, though risky, method, and I 
hope the point comes across: I manipu­
lated. you.
Words, and .by extension expression, 
are phenomenally powerful tools. We com­
municate with words and are enlight­
ened by expression. But we can also lie 
with them and manipulate people simply 
by writing or saying certain words in­
stead of others. Opinions can be changed, 
crowds riled, and otherwise passive per­
sons goaded into some action. Conversely, 
a mob can be calmed by a speaker. 
Throughout history, leaders have used 
expression for both good and evil.
Duringthe Depression our nation’s mo­
rale was buoyed with the quote, “The only 
thing we have to fear is fear itself.” An­
other man across the Atlantic stirred a 
nation into the second World War after 
convincing his countrymen that he should 
be elected. Words helped elect Hitler, and 
words aided his seizure of power. Expres­
sions of Germany’s might, and hence its 
right to claim and conquer other lands, fed 
the fires of popular support.
In 1991 we went to war against Iraq. 
Many spirited and emotional speeches 
were made before Congress allowed then- 
President George Bush to go ahead with 
the attack. One phrase that caught at the 
hearts of many Americans was that the 
Iraqis had stolen hospital incubators and 
left the infants to die. It turns out this was 
a lie and the claim invalid, but it was so 
easy to believe.
In war, or in preparation for war or other 
atrocities, the enemy is always vilified. 
Native Americans were “savages,” the 
Germans were either “Huns” or “Krauts.” 
The Japanese were “nips,” the Vietnam­
ese “gooks.” Other racial slurs, like “nigger” 
or “spic,” still abound. History is rife with 
examples of denigrating one’s enemies, 
and it goes on today. After all, it is so much 
easier to kill someone when you consider 
them sub-human.
The entirety of manipulation falls under 
the aegis of propaganda. What informa­
tion is conveyed and what is censored is of 
tremendous value in manipulation of opin­
ion. During the Gulf War we were treated 
to amazing demonstrations of our 
military’s might and technology. We barely 
knew there had been misses until after 
the war was over and relief teams went in, 
and then it was downplayed. We never 
saw pictures of Iraqi soldiers who were 
blown to bits or buried alive, nor has there 
been much airplay about the tens of thou­
sands of Iraqis, many of them children, 
who suffered and died due to shortages of 
food, water, and other necessities. Gulf 
War reporters were carefully herded and 
shown only what was positive, and it was 
all done in the name of “security.” Report­
ers were spoon-fed only the best results, 
and any errors that slipped out were im­
mediately downplayed.
During the Waco raid and subsequent 
standoff, the press was kept far out of the 
way “for their safety.” Again, only govem- 
ment-issue information reached the press, 
and from there the American public. When 
Janet Reno talked about CS gas (a form of 
tear gas) that was pumped into the com­
pound being harmless, she lied. CS gas 
can be lethal in high concentrations or 
after long exposure, and the Branch 
Davidians were heavily exposed. It affects 
children the most, causing vomiting, nau­
sea, and quite possibly death to those 
children whose rescue was the whole pur­
pose of the fatal raid at the end of the 
standoff. To this day a great deal of infor­
mation has been buried, both figuratively
and literally.
Misrepresentation of the facts is a com­
mon tool in building or eroding support 
for political aims. An example is the cur­
rent crime “explosion.” FBI figures show 
violent crime and murder are down, yet 
daily we are subjected to news of shootings 
and other mayhem. The disparity lies in 
a reporter’s comment that it is easy to 
create a crime wave. All that needs doing 
is to start reporting and emphasizing 
what happens every day instead of not 
reporting or downplaying it.
Nazi propagandists spoke of “The Big 
Lie.” The more outrageous a thing you 
claim to be true, the more people will 
believe it because nobody could claim 
something outrageous unless it were true. 
Propagandists know that to capture the 
minds of the people you must focus on a 
few simple issues, speak in short catchy 
phrases, and repeat them endlessly — 
slogans like “guns cause violence,” “na­
tionalized health care is good,” or “por­
nography causes rape.” It has long been 
known that facts and statistics can be 
manipulated to support almost any claim. 
But the medium of the message can lie 
too. The choice of words can manipulate 
as well as the content, and what is not 
said is often at least as important as the 
rhetoric of any heated issue.
David Hunt is a mechanical engineer­
ing graduate student.
Individuals, not groups, face holocausts
Ut
Matt Ball
With ironic foreshadowing of 
the Hebron massacre of Arabs at 
worship, a recent column was 
published on these pages concern­
ing the importance of remember­
ing the Jewish Holocaust that 
occurred during World War II. It 
was important to remember these 
events of 50 years ago, contended 
the author, because to forget 
would allow it to happen again.
Happen to whom? The Pales­
tinians? The Bosnians? Is the 
suffering of others in the past 
somehow of greater consequence 
than the killings faced by mil­
lions today? Here in the United 
States, people praise the movie 
Schindler’s List for bringing the
horrors of a Holocaust past to a 
new generation, ignoring the fact 
that the evening news provides 
us all with actual footage of cur­
rent Holocausts.
Jewish people do not have a 
monopoly on horrors in their past. 
They were not the only group 
methodically killed by Hitler and 
others.
Holocausts — systematic per­
secution and destruction—have 
occurred throughout history and 
continue to occur. Some of these 
tragedies, like the displacement 
and oppression of the Palestin­
ians, we avoid condemning to 
keep from being labeled anti- 
Semitic. Others, like Bosnia, we 
ignore because the situation 
doesn’t directly threaten us. Still 
others we support directly, breed­
ing individuals solely for slaugh­
ter, shunning their screams and 
salivating at the scent of their
roasted flesh. Nobel Laureate and 
Jewish Holocaust survivor Isaac 
Bashevis Singer observed that in 
the way we treat animals, we are 
all Nazis.
Holocausts are not brought 
about by hatred, but rather by a 
lack of empathy. Holocausts are 
only possible when we segregate 
ourselves and others further and 
further into isolated groups, deni­
grating those who fall outside of 
our group and disregarding their 
suffering.
It appears to be a fundamental 
need of people to build their egos 
by being a part of some group 
that is superior to everyone else. 
Humans separate themselves 
from other animals, white people 
segregate themselves from blacks 
(and vice versa), Christians iso­
late themselves from Muslims, 
nationalists exalt themselves 
above “foreigners.”
From this division, people tend 
to lay claim to the suffering of all 
past members of their “group,” as 
if each individual Jew lived 
through the Holocaust, or every 
African-American has been op­
pressed for 400 years, or each 
womanhas been disenfranchised 
since the dawn of time. Yet perse­
cution is not something that is 
inflicted upon a collective. Rather, 
individuals are enslaved, sent to 
the gas chambers, or slaughtered. 
Holocausts are terrible not be­
cause of the category of the indi­
viduals, but because of the vast 
number of individuals suffering. 
These individuals do not experi­
ence greater suffering because of 
any label or because they look 
like us, sound like us, believe like 
us, or act like us. While those on 
the outside think of groups, in 
the end, each threatened indi­
vidual experiences their own ho­
locaust.
Many people decry overt and 
societally-disapproved prejudice 
— the denial of rights or the con­
spicuous persecution of an indi­
vidual because of skin color, gen­
der, sexual preference, or reli­
gion. Yet we ignore, allow, or even 
support other prejudices that are 
not as obvious or questioned, even 
if these prejudices lead to suffer­
ing that we would otherwise fight 
if imposed upon someone closer 
to us.
We each have the choice to ig­
nore the tragedies that surround 
us but don’t involve us, worrying 
instead about protecting our own 
narrow interests and those of our 
immediate circle. While igno­
rance may be bliss for us, it cre­
ates hell for others.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in 
engineering and public policy.
Students must guarantee themselves rights
STUDENTS, from page 8
ties because if they were, you can be sure 
that complaining about college food would 
be a right protected by the Constitution. 
Whether the food is good or bad, com­
plaining about it is one of the college 
student’s most natural vents. If you failed 
a history test, feel free to take it out on 
your mashed potatoes. If you get reamed 
at a crit, yell about the broccoli. The good 
news is that the food won’t mind and 
you’ll feel better. The bad news is that 
the food ain’t gonna change.
5. Enjoy your classes. Hard to believe, 
isn’t it? With most products, customer 
satisfaction is important. If a toaster 
oven or television does not work to your 
satisfaction, you probably expect the store 
to fix it, replace itr or refund your money. 
After all, you paid for it.
Well, you pay an awful lot of money to 
take classes here, so you may as well enjoy 
it. This is probably a novel concept to most 
people (especially the faculty), so I’ll ex­
plain. You should enjoy your education! 
Sure, there are going to be the few re­
quired courses that will suck and you just 
have to suffer through. However, going to 
college is not a punishment; it is some­
thing you chose to do. Enjoy it.
6. Get involved. This campus offers a lot 
more than classes, but so many people 
don’t know it because they’re too wrapped 
up in their work to even peek outside their 
rooms.
You can do stuff! You can write really 
annoying columns like this, you can learn 
to waltz, you can go to paintball tourna­
ments, or you can do tons of other activi­
ties. You do not have to let your work stop
you from living.
7. Build a snowman. You have to put up 
with the weather, so you may as well make 
the best of it. Take a break and play in the 
snow. Have fun. Give the snowman three 
eyes.
8. Speak your mind. While the college 
campus of the ’90s is the home base for 
political correctness, feel free to say how 
you feel. If you offend someone, that per­
son does not have to be your friend. You 
don’t have to check every comment you 
make to ensure that nobody is hurt. Ex­
press yourself.
9. Write bad poetry. Many people have 
trouble venting their frustrations. One 
good thing to do is write down how you 
feel. If it helps, write a poem. Poetry is a 
great way to put how you feel down on 
paper. Granted, most poetry is really bad,
but that’s okay. Feel free to write little 
rhymes even if they are pathetic. No one has 
to see them, and even if someone does read 
your poem, don’t worry about it. Write bad 
poetry and be proud.
10. Expect something from your educa­
tion. When you get out of here, finding a job 
isn’t going to be easy. You put in the time to 
get a college education, so feel free to count 
on recognition of that fact. Nothing’s going 
to be handed to you. You still have to work 
hard to earn your position and salary, but 
you can use the name of your university. 
Build up your resume. Brag about your 
accomplishments. Anything you achieve is 
subject to utilization. When you graduate 
from this place, use it to your advantage.
Eric J. Salzman is a freshman in H&SS. 
He is confused.
CMU’s stellar reputation 
in research often means that 
professors spend less time 
teaching and more time do­
ing research. We asked stu­
dents: How does the em­
phasis on research at 
CMU affect the quality of 
teaching?
John Moran 
Sophomore 
Chemical Engineering
“Sometimes the teachers are 
too involved in research, and it 
seems like they don’t spend 
enough time teaching.”
Jennyfer Stanley
Freshman
H&SS/IM
“The percentage of students 
involved in research is small 
compared to the percentage of 
students who need good teach­
ing. We need a balance.”
Brett Fontaine 
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
“I think the professors are ei­
ther too wrapped up in research 
to care about teaching, or the 
teaching and research are en­
tirely unrelated.”
David Perry/Tartan Photographer
Jordan Tsvetkoff 
Junior 
C S/Math
“Research improves the qual­
ity ofteachingin that professors 
gain familiarity with the sub­
jects. But research distracts 
from the teaching.”
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr.............Lauren Heinz
News Editor................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor.................Eric Strauss
Features Editor....Kathleen Wright
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor........Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors...............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Copy Manager............Eileen O’Shea
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor........Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed..............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds........Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada
Asst. Features Ed...........Tonya Rado
Asst. Diversions Ed. Karen Griinberg 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager......David Perry
Darkroom Manager.........Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McCiure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Janice McClure, Declan 
McCullagh
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdius, Mahua Dutta, Jes­
sica Fang, Andi Francioni, Shannon 
Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, Tom Harper, 
Edward Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Jus­
tin Lam, Matthew Messner, Ronak 
Singhal, Jason Specland, Rhonda 
Struminger, Susan Stuart, Bethany 
Sutton, Jennifer Turner, Mike Walker, 
John Weber, Leslie Zubaty
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangsit, Jim 
Snyder, Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Margaret 
Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch, Ron Yang
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, 
Yerln Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, 
Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunskill, Chandra 
Buist, Justin Carroll, Kristen Connell, 
Seth A. Covitz, Amy Haupl, Kathy 
Uu, Angela Molloy, Buck Neel, Jesse 
Nice, Lisa Steggles, Gabe Symons, 
Daniella Topol, Vivien Weiss, David 
White, Brian Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the 
University community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for the semester or academic year. 
The editorials appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual cre­
ators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. Let­
ters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of 
the University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for verifica­
tion. Names will be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 
500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 1993 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board re­
serves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy It deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The Anatomy of the otibank
Classic card: a body of services and peace of mind
for students, now with No Annual Fee. For years, scientists could only
theorize about the Citibank Classic Visa® card, unable to actually observe anything below its epidermal 
surface (i.e. the plastic). Surely the highly intelligent services were evidence of an advanced brain. But with 
the latest advances in x-ray technology, and when the light could catch the various parts just so, it was 
confirmed: the Citibank Classic Visa card is head to toe more evolved than ever imagined. H At its 
backbone are 3 services to cover the purchases you make on the card. Starting at the Lower Costal Spine, 
we see Citibank Price Protection can assure you of the best price. All you have to do is discover the same
item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and 
Citibank will refund the difference up to $1501 Along 
the Oops-It- Slipped Disc, Buyers Security5"1 can 
cover those purchases against accidental damage, fire 
or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase1; and 
Citibank Lifetime Warranty5"1 allows one to extend 
the warranty for the expected service life of eligible 
products up to 12 years2. So if you ever buy a walkman, 
a stereo, whatever, it will be reassuring to know that 
Citibank can bend and be flexible while still lending support. H The backbone is then connected to the 
cranium or headbone. Look at the bottom of the page. The Citibank Photocard has the head of the 
cardholder, as well as his or her own signature, right on the front. That way, it will help prevent fraud. It will 
also make a good form of ID, since you get to choose your own photo. H But what about the Nervous 
System?The fact is, it doesn’t have one, not in the spinal cord nor in the brain. What it has is the Very Calm 
System. Because even if your credit card gets stolen, or gets lost, an involuntary muscle called the 
Extendus Anewcardeus activates the Lost Wallet5"1 Service which can replace your card usually within 
24 hours. H As suspected, there’s another involuntary muscle: the heart— a beating and caring heart, big 
enough to give students special discounts and savings. You’ll receive a $20 Airfare Discount on domestic 
flights3; savings on mail order purchases, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest 
rate of 15.4%4; and, No Annual Fee. (In other wonds, the card itself doesn’t cost a forelimb and a 
hindlimb.) H Naturally the heart of the Citibank Visa card pumps life and personalized customer service 
into all its parts, 24 hours a day. So no matter what the question you might have concerning your card, 
you need only call the 800 number. You’ll find Citibank has a neck they are eager to stick out for you. They 
will always lend an ear. Or a hand. They will keep an eye out for you. They will put their best foot forward. 
Etc. H So call to apply. You don’t need a job or a cosigner. And 
call if you’d like your photo added to your regular Citibank 
Classic Visa card. The number is 1-800-CITIBANK 
(1-800-248-4226), extension 19. H If we take an overview of the
whole body of services that make up the Citibank Classic Visa oiitm ot/ii /r? CV ¦fSHPUNDA WALKER VISA
card, and consider that it will facilitate building a credit history,
then you must shake a leg, flex your index finger and call today. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.
OTIBAN«*
CLASSIC
d*. 'WtXto
*128 0012 3*Sb
Scientists theorize that the mind of the Citibank Classic Visa 
cardmember (Fig. A) is secure because it receives superior 
service; the mind of the non-Citibank Classic Visa cardmember 
(Fig. B) is not secure because—could it be?—it has a screw loose?
C or la in conditions and exclusions apply Please refer to >our Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. ^Certain restrictions and 
limitations apply I 'nderu rittcn b> the New Hampshire Insurance Company Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available 
in your Summan of Additional Program Information. 'Olfer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is SI00. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. 
JI he Annual Percentage Rate (APR) for purchases is 15.4% as of 1,94 and ma> vary quarterly. The APR for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an 
additional finance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2°«« of the amount of each cash advance transaction: however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch® Notes arc 
published b> Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company Used by permission of publisher. ©1994 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC.
Monarch Notes® Version: With 
your purchases covered, no annual 
fee, and a low rate, the Citibank 
Classic Visa card will go easy on 
your Nervous System. Call 
1-800-CITIBANK 
(1-800-248-4226), extension 19.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Swim team excels at UAA championships
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The men’s and women’s swim 
teams finished off their 1993-94 
season with a number of All-Divi- 
sion III qualifying times, setting 
UAA and school records. Coach 
Jim Cutrone was very pleased 
with the outcome of the meet.
“We had a super UAA meet and 
a great season. The team worked 
harder than ever before. The 16 
hours per week of training since 
September paid off ... both the 
men’s and women’s team were 
academic All-American during 
the fall semester.”
Highlights overall for CMU in­
clude nine school records, two 
more during the dual meet sea­
son, three pool records, one UAA 
record, and 11 National Qualify­
ing times.
| There were seven total confer- 
jence champions. Among them 
! was sophomore Rebecca Fruehan 
j who was named conference swim- 
| mer of the year with a total of 60 
i points at UAAs.
; Fruehan placed first with a 
school record and national quali­
fying time of 5:10.52 in the 500- 
yard freestyle event. She also 
placed first in both the 200-yard 
j and 100-yard freestyle events, 
j setting a pool record iri the former 
| and a school record in the latter.
! Both events were national quali- 
Ifying times: 1:56.53 and 53.13,
| respectively.
Also in the 200-yard freestyle 
! event, freshman Christina 
| Hagopian had a very good time of 
! 2:06.48 in the trials, followed by 
i junior SarahBroadley at 2:10.79,
| andfreshmanKathrineWickiser 
at 2:24.49.
| Senior Denise Femtficle did a, 
fantastic job in three of her events, 
with national qualifying times in 
the 200-yard” individual medley 
(I.M.), the 100-yard breaststroke, 
and the 200-yard breaststroke.
Placing first in the 200-yard 
breaststroke, with a time of 
2:28.55, Fenwick set a pool record. 
She came in third place in the 
200-yard I.M. with a time of 
2:13.55 and second place in the 
100-yard breaststroke in1:08.89.
Captain junior Dianne Keen 
also competed well in the 100- 
yard breaststroke, finishing with 
a final time of 1:17.28. Sopho­
more Holley An- 
statt followed close 
behind, finishing 
with a time of 
1:22.93.
In the 100-yard 
backstroke, junior 
Joanne Kievan 
had a trial time of 
1:09.61 and later 
in finals finished 
with 1:09.45.
In the women’s 
relays competi­
tion, CMU set 
three school rec­
ords coming in sec­
ond place in the 
800-yard freestyle 
at 8:10.18, and 
fourth places in the 
400-yard freestyle 
and 200-yard 
freestyle. The 
times for the ..last 
two were': 3:48.04 
for the 400 and 
1:43.08for the 200.
The 800-yard 
free relay team, consisting of 
Fenwick, Hagopian, sophomore 
Ilania Kaplan, and Fruehan came 
in second place with a time of 
8:10.18. Another CMU relay team 
placed 15th for this event with 
swimmers Anstatt, Broadley, 
Wickiser, and sophomore Lynn 
Bab^akK .. |
The women’s team scored the 
most points ever in CMU’s his­
tory, 332, and the 800-yard 
freestyle relay placings were the 
highest ever. All freestyle relay
school records were broken.
CMU men’s team swam very 
fast. However, they were hurt by 
a lack of depth and no divers, due 
to CMU’s facilities which do not 
include a diving board.
Interestingly, both teams that 
finished ahead of CMU, Univer­
sity of Rochester and Emory Uni­
versity, have remarkable pools 
and full-time assistant coaching
qualifying time. His 200-yard 
breaststroke time was also a 
school record and national quali­
fying time.
Along with Moe, junior Donald 
Nelson came in 10th place in the 
200-yard breaststroke with a time 
of 2:18.14 in the trials and2:18.43 
in the finals. Junior Zack 
Charmoy finished 24th with a 
time of 2:33.90 in the finals.
(I.M.), the 100-yard breaststroke, freestyle relay placings were the yard I.M 
! and the 200-yard breaststroke, highest ever. All freestyle relay school rei
Tartans drop final contest, 
finish year third in league
By JOHN WEBER sists. For Rochester, Kyle Meeki
I TVt rf-n n Q+rt-FPi ¡y-ni-fnt' q uroir ixritVi 1 ft nninfo .Tamar IV
staffs. Johns Hopkins University 
has four part-time assistant 
coaches which really puts them 
at an advantage.
In men’s competition, the 
sophomores really came through 
for CMU.
Sophomore Matt Moe contrib­
uted two first place wins j one in 
the 400-yard I.M. with a time of 
4:08.05 and one in the 200-yard 
breaststroke, 2:09.23. In the 400- 
yard I.M., Moe set both UAA and 
school records and had a national
Sophomore Geoff Waller placed 
well in three of his events, quali­
fying for nationals in the 200- 
yard butterfly and the 400-yard 
I.M. and setting school records in 
both the 200-yard butterfly and 
the 200-yard I.M. His time for the 
200-yard butterfly, in which he 
placed_first, was 1:55.23. He came 
in fourth place in the 200-yard 
I.M. at 1:57.95, and third place in 
the 400-yard I.M. with a time of 
4:10.23.
A third sophomore, George
Schmidt, made an impressive 
fourth place finish in the 200- 
yard butterfly. His national quali­
fying time for this event was 
1:56.90.
Another CMU swimmer who 
competed well in this event was 
senior co-captain Anupam 
Narula. He placed eighth with 
times of 1:59.17 in the trials and 
2:03.00 in the finals. Senior Mark 
Stemm.andjun- 
ior Douglas 
Donegan fin­
ished 20th and 
22nd in the 200- 
yard butterfly 
event with 
times of 2:12.85 
and 2:14.28, re­
spectively.
Senior Jon 
Kline placed 
fourth in the 
400-yard free­
style, having a 
time of 3:20.87 
in the trial event 
and 3:14.04 in 
the finals.
In the ex­
hausting 1,650- 
yard freestyle 
event, CMU 
swimmers 
sophomore 
Chris Graefe 
and junior Jeff 
Milton placed in 
ninth and 12th 
places. Graefe’s time was 
17:19.82, followed by teammate 
Milton at 17:35.35.
Senior Benji Keyes, Kline, and 
senior Jeff Berghoff all swam very 
well in the 200-yard backstroke. 
Keyes placed seventh with a trial 
time of 2:05.18 and a final time of 
2:07.80. Kline and Berghoff fin­
ished in eighth and 12th places 
respectively, with final times of 
2:08.32 and 2:07.39.
Highlights in the 100-yard 
freestyle include senior co-cap-
Gabrien Symons/Tartan artist
tain Todd Vandall’s 11th place 
finish with a time of 48.81. Other 
CMU swimmers who placed well 
in this event are, in order of place­
ment: sophomore Mike Berty, 
sophomore Chris O’Rourke, jun­
ior Gary Groznik, freshman Tom 
Messina, and sophomore Anuj 
Gupta. Places were not available.
Vandall placed fourth in the 
50-yard freestyle with a final time 
of 21.99, followed by CMU swim­
mers Keyes at 22.69, O’Rourke, 
Kline, Messina, Charmoy, and 
Gupta.
The swimmers for CMU have 
been extremely successful all sea­
son long despite the facilities at 
CMU which they feel are “deplor­
able.”
The conditions to which they 
are refer to are the men’s and 
women’s locker rooms and the 
poor lighting in the small pool 
area. The swimmers are forced to 
conduct two workout sessions for 
each scheduled practice because 
the team is so large in number.
During the season, two sessions 
were conducted every weekday 
afternoon and one session on Sat­
urday mornings. The entire team 
could not train together so, dur­
ing weekday mornings, four times 
a week, the team is divided into 
three groups—the varsity weight 
room, the pool, and Thistle Hall 
for dry land work.
Even though CMU must con­
duct split practices, Cutrone said, 
“The team is remarkably unified. 
They are very supportive of one 
another. But it would be better if 
we could conduct practices with 
the entire team together.”
Nationals will be held at Will­
iams College at Williamstown, 
Massachusetts on March 10-13 
for the women and March 17-20 
for the men.
Cutrone said, “I am extremely 
pleased with the team and I am 
very excited about Nationals and 
next season.”
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartans finished the 1993-94 bas­
ketball season on the road on the final 
Saturday of February against the Uni­
versity of Rochester.
Rochester came into the game with an 
11-13 record and a 5—8 record in the 
UAA. The Tartan seniors (Derek 
Dragisich, Charlie Connors, Matt 
Reiprish, and Mike Hosni) played more 
than 20 minutes each and all except 
Reiprish were in double figures by the 
end of the game.
However, Rochester shot almost 20 
percent better from the field the entire 
game as they went on to beat .CMU 77- 
62. Rochester outscored the Tartans 30- 
20 in the first half and 47-42 in the 
second half. Dragisich led the way for 
the Tartans with 22 points (and four 
rebounds).
Conners had 13 points and led the 
team with seven rebounds, and Mike 
Hosni had 10 points along with six as­
sists. For Rochester, Kyle Meeker led 
the way with 18 points, Jamar Milsap 
had 14, and Mike ShatzelandTedNaylon 
each had 10 points. The loss broke the 
Tartans’ three-game winning streak as 
they finished the year with a 10-14 
record (7-7 in the UAA).
Despite the sub-.500 season, there 
were a number of individual achieve­
ments to take note of. Dragisich, who 
finished the season fourth on Carnegie 
Mellon’s all-time career scoring list with 
1,211 points, scored his 1,000th point on 
December 1 against Division I Akron.
Earlier this year, Mike Hosni scored 
his 1,000th point and went on to finish 
10th on the all-time scoring list with 
1,069 points. Connors finished the sea­
son three points ahead of Dragisich for 
the most points this season with 276 
(11.5 per game).
Sophomore Kevin Byrne averaged the 
most rebounds per game this season 
with 6.5 per game. Also, Connors and 
Hosni each made the Second Team of 
Please see TARTANS, page 15
Women’s team wins three of last four 
games, reaches 10-win mark on season
By CHANDRA BUIST
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The women's basketball team lost 
their final game of the season to the 
University of Rochester last Friday, 
70-59. Rochester ended their season 
third in the University Athletic Asso­
ciation, with a record of 10-4, and an 
overall record of 17-8. The defeat left 
the Tartans ranked seventh in the 
UAA with a record of 3-11. This final 
game of the season proved to be a 
tough one. The high level of play ex­
hibited by the Tartans last week when 
they defeated Emory in double over­
time did not carry over.
While the Carnegie Mellon women. 
are usually a first half team, they 
struggled through the entire 40 min­
utes. Although their field goal shoot­
ing was 38.6 percent while Rochester 
shot 39.4 percent, the Tartans came 
up short. They had a tough first half,
scoring27 points while Rochester scored 
40. In the second half, the Tartans hung 
tough and outscored their opponent, 32- 
30, but this was not enough to take the 
lead.
Senior forward Jeanine Megahan led 
the team with23points andlOrebounds. 
Also contributing were freshman for­
ward Kristen Kupfer with 10 poi nts and 
nine rebounds, andfre&hmanpointguard 
Penny Summerville with 10 points and 
four rebounds. Although Carnegie 
Mellon played welt, with three players 
in double digits and a 40 percent shoot­
ing average, they fell too far behind 
during the first 20 minutes of play.
This last defeat marked the end of 
another season for the Carnegie Mellon 
Tartans. Despite losing three starters 
from last year’s team and recruiting 10 
freshmen, the Tartans had a decent sea­
son, ending with an overall record of 10- 
14. While they struggled through much 
of their season, they also played some
exciting basketball. They started their 
season with a loss to Muskingum, and 
then came back with two wi ns, defeat­
ing Case Western Reserve 61-46, and 
King’s College, 54^-43. Another big win 
for CMU was against LaRoche Col­
lege. In this game, the Tartans poured 
on the heat. Displayingthe basketball 
they were capable of, they crashed 
their opponent, 77-45. In this game, 
the Tartans had four players in double 
digits; Megahan scored a game high 
19 points, senior forward Mary Moore 
followed with 12 points, Kupfer had 
11, and junior forward Jennifer Gretz 
scoredlO. Following this win, the Tar­
tans went down in their next UAA 
game against Rochester. They then 
came back tough, winningfouroftheir 
next five competitions. After this high 
inthe Tartan’s season of play, they hit 
their low, losing seven UAA games in 
a row.
Please see BASKETBALL, page 14
Indoor track team 
competes at UAAs
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
This past weekend Carnegie Mellon’s men’s and 
women’s indoor track teams completed their sea­
sons at their annual end of the year UAA Confer­
ence meet which was held at the University of 
Chicago. Both teams did exceptionally well, espe­
cially the women’s team, which scored the most 
points ever in CMU women’s indoor track history. 
The women took fifth overall with a total of 49 
points while the men took fourth overall with a 
total of 47 points.
There were many stars during the meet for the 
women’s team, but the biggest show was put on by 
sophomore Melissa Baustert, who was voted team 
MVP for the year.
Baustert won the 800-meter run in a time of 
2:19.46 and set an indoor school record by taking 
second overall in the 55-meter hurdles with a time 
of 9.12 seconds. She also starred in the 4x400- 
Please see TRACK, page 13
Seniors finish outstanding careers
By LESLIE ZUBATY
Tartan Staffwriter
At the end of the Tartans’ 1993-94 basketball 
season, players and coaches alike reflect on the 
accomplishments and failures of the season. Se­
niors especially have cause for reflection on the 
passing season, as well as on their Carnegie Mellon 
basketball careers. Four of this year’s graduating 
seniors have made outstanding contributions to 
CMU’s men’s and women’s basketball programs. 
Of the women’s team, senior guard/forward Jeanine 
Megahan and senior forward Mary Moore served 
as co-captains in 1993-94 and have each given 
considerable performances during their years with 
the Tartans. The men’s team boasts exceptional 
basketball careers of senior forward Derek 
Dragisich and senior guard Mike Hosni. Each of 
these players holds not only a commendable record, 
but the respect and admiration of their coaches.
Named to the first team All-UAA this season, 
Megahan shines above the rest. She is a four-time 
All-UAA player, and was named to the first team
three of four times. Megahan has 1,454 career! 
points, which makes her the second all-time lead-i 
ing scorer in Carnegie Mellon history. She is! 
second to Kathleen Segmiller who holds the all-j 
time career point record with 1,595 points from 
1978-82.
Head women’s basketball coach Gerri Seidl 
cannot say enough about Megahan’s career with 
the Tartans. “She has been an explosive player 
and had a great impact on the program as an 
individual,” the coach said. Seidl could not be 
more accurate, for Megahan leads all of the fol­
lowing categories for the 1993-94 season: field 
goals with 53 percent, scoring with a game aver­
age of 16.5 points, rebounds with 9.0 a game, as 
well as 82 assists, 78 steals, and 25 blocked shots. 
She is second in free throw percentage at 69 
percent. Seidl continued, saying, “She would do 
anything asked of her ... I don’t think she ever 
realized how good she is. Her desire and determi­
nation are incredible and she deserves player of 
the year. She can play any position — she shoots 
Please see SENIORS, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 1994
Orioles hope to soar above A.L. East opponents
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
By the time you read this ar­
ticle, baseball fans, every major 
league team will already have at 
least three Grapefruit League 
games under its belt, and we will 
be a mere month from opening 
day.
So although it continues to be 
cold and blustery outside, things 
continue to heat up on the Florida 
panhandle, and nowhere does it
heat up more than among the 
teams that comprise the newly 
aligned American League East 
division, which will be the focus 
of this week’s article.
Once known by many as the 
“A.L. Least,” the American 
League East is by far the best 
division in baseball now, as it 
features the two-time defending 
champion Toronto Blue Jays, and 
several other teams who are look­
ing towards a World Series ring. 
So without further delay, let’s get 
right into it.
Baltimore Orioles: Two years 
ago, when the Orioles moved into 
beautiful Camden Yards, the 
Baltimore Birds suddenly became 
a winning team. The problem was 
that it stopped right there. Since 
then, a team with championship
potential has managed to under­
achieve. But new owner Peter 
Angelos has vowed to change that, 
and has done so by dipping into 
the free agent market to acquire 
two All-Stars in first baseman 
Rafael Palmeiro and third 
baseman Chris Sabo, durable 
lefty pitcher Sid Fernandez, and 
the all-time career saves leader, 
Lee Arthur Smith.
Add these names to a ballclub 
that already features Brady 
Anderson, Mike Devereaux, Chris 
Hoiles, Harold Baines, the vener­
able Cal Ripken, a budding star 
in Jeffrey Hammonds, and a 
pitching staff which features the 
best one-two punch in the majors 
with Mike Mussina and Ben 
McDonald, and the Orioles have 
a team talented enough to be
World Series bound.
The problems lie in depth. Can 
Arthur Rhodes and Jamie Moyer 
be effective again this year in the 
fourth and fifth rotation spots, 
and does Smith have at least one 
more year left in his old arm? Can 
Ripken keep up his iron man pace 
for another year? If so, look for 
the O’s to be playing ball come 
the end of October, but if not, the 
O’s will most likely remain on 
their current plateau.
Boston Red Sox: Rejoice 
BoSox fans — Lou Gorman is no 
longer in control. Hand it to Sox 
management for moving Gorman 
out and bringing in a living, 
breathing baseball genius in Gen­
eral Manager Dan Duquette, who 
never reached his potential in 
Montreal due to financial con­
straints. But Duquette has al­
ways stressed speed and youth, 
and has already made his mark 
by signing speedy center fielder 
Otis Nixon, and by sticking with 
youngsters such as Jeff McNeely, 
Aaron Sele, and Nate Minchey.
The Sox, who finished 80-82 
last year, did so on the backbone 
of their pitching staff. The staff 
compiled the second best ERA in 
the A.L. and was second in shut­
outs with 11, and this was all 
done with an ineffective Roger 
Clemens. Therefore Sox fans can 
expect even more this year as 
“the Rocket,” who reported to 
camp in good health, should re­
bound to have another stellar year 
and will be supported by young­
sters Sele and Minchey who will 
only get better with time.
The problems he in the offense 
—though the Sox feature several 
sluggers such as Mo Vaughn 
Mike Greenwell, Scott Cooper 
and John Valentin, they lack pro. 
duction at several key positions 
including right field, second base 
designated hitter, and catcher, 
Additions of catchers Damon 
Berryhill and Dave Valle along 
with a healthy Andre Dawson 
should help but will not be enough 
for the Sox to remain with the 
premier teams in this division.
Duquette was brought in, not 
with a quick fix in mind, but to 
rebuild an aging team and a dried- 
up farm system. The Sox will be 
competitive, but that is as far 
they will go.
Detroit Tigers: Little Caesar’s 
Please see EAST, page 13
Coaches, graduating basketball players reminisce
SENIORS, from page 11
the ball, she passes the ball, she steals 
the ball!”
Megahan reflects modestly on her 
amazing career. She said “It’s been a 
very rewarding experience. Our record 
this year was not what I had hoped it 
would be, but it can’t dampen all of our 
accomplishments in the past four years. 
I would do it all over again.”
Megahan also commends the outstand­
ing performance and support of her team­
mate Moore. “She was one of the hardest 
workers I’ve ever played with,” Megahan 
said. “She always made the game fun, 
and she was a great support to the team 
on and off the court, especially this year 
when we had so many ups and downs.”
Moore was indeed an asset to the Tar­
tans as a four-year letter winner and 
three-year starter.
As a center this year she received an 
honorable mention All-UAA and ends 
the season with 7.0 average points a 
game. In addition, she has an average of 
6.1 reboundsja game and 22 blocked
shots for the season.
Dragisich and Hosni end successful 
careers with the Tartans as well. Head 
men’s basketball coach Tony Wingen 
remembers these men as freshmen, say­
ing, “I could see right away that they 
were two very special players. Each have 
outstanding strengths. Derek is a rug­
ged inside player, and as an inside player 
is also unique on the outside with a 
really soft touch. I could always count on 
Derek to do what we needed.”
Regarding Hosni, Wingen said, “Mike 
is very versatile and is an aggressive, 
slashing player. He took on all the roles 
we asked of him, even though his natu­
ral position is off guard, and always did 
the job. That really speaks to his versa­
tility.”
These men do indeed have strengths. 
Dragisich is a four-year letter winner 
and four-year starter with an 11.4 point 
average and 5.0 rebounds. He ranks 
second this season in field goal percent­
age with 55 percent and leads the team 
in free throws. He is second on the team
in scoring and third in rebounding, and 
ends the reason with 1,211 points, the
Tartan File Photo 
Senior Jeanine Megahan is the women’s 
team’s second all-time points scorer.
fourth all-time highest career point to­
tal at CMU. Dragisich is plea'sed when
he looks back on his career. “If I had it to 
do over, I’d definitely do it again,” he 
said. “We had some really exciting mo­
ments as well as disappointments, but I 
think that during my four years here we 
were very successful.”
Dragisich is particularly happy with 
the improvement in CMU’s basketball 
reputation.
“CMU is taken seriously now as a 
basketball team — other teams come 
here expecting a challenge, which is 
something that has changed since be­
fore this team worked together,” he said.
Hosni agrees with Dragisich on all 
points and said, “We are also a really 
close team. As seniors, it’s great to look 
back and know that we got to be such 
good friends in the past four years.”
Hosni’s record is also quite impres­
sive. He finished the season with 7.4 
points and 4.4 rebounds per game. He 
leads the team with 115 assists and 60 
steals. He was named to the second 
team All-UAA this year, which was his 
second time receiving the honor. The
first was after his sophomore year.
He scored 1,069 points during his ca­
reer, which ranks him 10th in all-time 
career point totals.
It is interesting to remember that 
Dragisich, Hosni and Wingen joined 
CMU’s basketball program at the same 
time. Wingen said, “I’m proud of what 
we’ve done in the last four years. Next 
year will be very different without them. 
These guys have helped build a founda­
tion for the program.”
Hosni is pleased with the team’s ac­
complishments as well: “When we all got 
here we were all rookies, so to speak.” 
Dragisich adds that because everyone 
was new and very enthusiastic, “We 
were willing to work hard and play 
hard as we could.”
It’s certainly true that these outstand­
ing athletes have played as hard as they 
could. Their coaches are more than sat­
isfied with their players’ accomplish­
ments and these seniors’ numbers speak 
for themselves. The basketball program 
will miss them next season.
$35,000 TO HELP YOU FINISH COLLEGE
'i'll. Ì ¦ M 1... r -
U; h'¿¡ . l-.Scr ••**>* 15.Vy- • ; ' R ¿ q y ' ï í í í fi
Pi i fJ;
iS-. \
-e-.....
College sophomores, if you qualify, the Navy can help 
finance the rest of your degree—with a Naval Reserve 
Officers Training Corps (NROTC) Two-Year College 
Scholarship.
The Navy pays your tuition, textbooks, and instructional 
fees plus an allowance of $100 a month for your last 20 
months of college. That could all add up to more than 
$35,000.
Upon graduation be commissioned a Navy officer and 
enjoy benefits like free medical and dental care, 30 days 
paid vacation earned each year, and have an opportunity 
for advanced education in one of the Navy’s high-tech fields.
NROTC two-year scholarships are highly competitive. 
Applications must be turned in early in your sophomore 
year. For more information, see or call: LT Scot Malloy
268-5197
XT AUV D ATr* You 311(11:116 Navy. 1 IxxV X XV V-/ X Full Speed Ahead.
Your Future Is In Washington.
The George Wasliinolon liiiversilv’s 199-1 Summer Sessions
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.
Spend this summer learning in the world’s most 
stimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The 
George Washington University offer over 500 
courses covering 60 different areas of study.
Enjoy the Resources of the Notion's Capital
Located just four blocks from the White House and 
adjacent to the World Bank, GW’s campus is within 
walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the 
Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions.
Meet the Movers and the Shakers
You’ll not only learn from The George Washington 
University’s distinguished faculty, but will also meet 
government and corporate leaders, cabinet members, 
heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers, 
association directors, and corporate executives, who are 
often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time 
faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C. 
organizations are also available.
Maximize Your Career Potential with Special 
Summer Programs
0 Prevention of Terrorism 0 GW Madrid Centre
° Historical Archaeology 0 Public Relations
° History in the Media ° Total Quality Management
° Sport & Event Management in Higher Education
° Tropical Marine Biology ° Information Systems
» Publication Institute ° Legal Assistant
* International Education: 0 Latin America: Cultural
Indonesia and Malaysia and Business Environment
• And Many More!
Choose from a Variety of Options 
at The George Washington University
Two main 6-week sessions: May 11 - June 22 and 
June 27 - August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one- 
week field sessions to 13-week seminars.
For More Information,
Call 202-994-6360
or mail or fax the V\^sillii2tpn
coupon below. | TtllVetSlfGTON DC*
My Future Is in Washington This Summer!
Please rush me the following information:
? 1994 Summer Sessions Bulletin with course 
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad 
programs, schedules, and registration information.
? GW’s Year-round Undergraduate Programs 
¦J GW’s Year-round Graduate Programs
? 1994 Summer Sessions Study Abroad Programs
NameD.O.B.
Current Address
CitvState
Phone( )
Return completed form to:
The George Washington University, 1994 Summer Sessions 
2121 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20052 
FAX (202)994-9133.
The George Washington University is an equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 199413
Volleyball takes no break at mid-semester
CAROLYN SKARADA
<rartan Assistant Sports Editor
The men’s volleyball club wrapped up mid-se­
mester weekend with two wins on Friday night 
nst Penn State-McKeesport and California 
University of Pa. The scores for the Penn State 
rame were: 15-10, 13-15, and 15-10. Against 
California the final scores were 15—10, and 15-3.
Sunday’s tri-match began with CMU playing 
jgainst Nussous, a graduate student club team 
from University of Pittsburgh. The game started 
out with a bang, with CMU leaping to a 12-2 lead.
Sophomore Justin LaPaglia was not able to make 
jtso the team had to adjust the line-up. But, junior 
Walt Miller, who played in LaPaglia’s middle hit­
ting position, had no problems filling in. After the 
first game he said, “It’s okay, I’m getting used to it 
[middle hitter].”
Game point was servedby sophomore Rob Gannon 
and a strong blocking effort made by teammates 
senior Ed Pyo and Miller finished off the play.
The second game proved to be more of a challenge 
for CMU, who started to drop their intensity level. 
A change in the line-up may have been the cause 
'or the change in consistency from the first game, 
Wilier playing the back row for freshman John 
Warwick.
CMU was down 1—7 before they decided to call a 
time out.
Every subsequent mistake hurt CMU, bringing 
down the entire team and costing them a string of 
joints. They looked like a completely different 
[earn out there.
At 1-12, Pyo pounded a hit off the opponent’s 
block in a smart play. It looked hopeful for a turn 
around, but CMU just didn’t push hard enough. 
Sophomore Eugene Shen went in fresh and made
strong defensive effort in the back row. CMU lost 
this game 1-15, a shocker for them, having been 
favored to win.
The third game began with the original starters. 
Although the Pitt club team began in the lead, this 
did not set the tone for the entire game. CMU still 
struggled with poor execution.
Defense had no problems picking up the digs or 
making good passes, and Gannon was setting well, 
but the hitting just wasn’t there.
CMU gave up many unforced errors. When the 
score became 1-5, CMU looked tired. They needed 
a second wind to turn the momentum around.
Senior Zap Gan pulled through with an excellent 
block for a point. CMU continued to make a num­
ber of sideouts, but then they couldn’t do anything 
with it. Miller was playing a smart offense, chang­
ing up his shots and placing the ball right above the 
10 foot line, catching Pitt on their heels.
Freshman John (Nate) Heavey contributed a few 
powerful hits for points, one of which dropped in 
front of the opposing blockers.
The real comeback during this game was initi­
ated by Pyo with his string of good serves bringing 
CMU back into the game and then tying up the 
score at 10-10. CMU was able to relax now, while 
the pressure was on Pitt.
By the time the score became 13-10 in CMU’s 
favor, Pitt called their last time out. Between their 
last two time outs, Pitt did not score a single point.
Miller shot down aggressive middle hitter oppo­
nent on game point helping CMU win 15-12. “We 
should have never been behind,” Miller said.
The next match of the day was CMU against 
Penn State-McKeesport. Having just beat this team 
on Friday night, CMU entered the game with 
confidence.
Although senior John Borger said realistically, 
“Our passing was really on last time we played 
them,” anything could happen this time.
CMU started off refreshed and strong with a 3-
0 lead. Miller was pounding away in the middle. 
CMU was thrown through a loop at one point as 
Penn State stole a few stealthy shots. They were 
having some trouble reading the hitters — antici­
pation was slow.
Borger’s hitting was on during this game and he 
crushed a few for CMU. The emotionally draining 
game remained at 14-14, while both middles battled 
it out at the net.
In the end, Penn State took the tough game 16- 
14.
The second game began with a series of smart 
shots made by Pyo and an impressive jump serve 
ace for Miller. Gannon was really being worked 
hard because of the poor passes he was forced to 
contend with, but CMU gradually pulled their act 
together.,
Again, Pyo carried the team back into the 6-5 
lead with a string of serving points. In the end 
CMU held strong winning this one 15-11 and 
redeeming themselves.
Heavey served the first couple of serves in the 
third game, racking up a cushion of points, 6-1.
Penn State-McKeesport had some really strong 
attackers and maintained a decent looking de­
fense, but their poor communication and weak 
pick-up on digs cost them at several intense mo­
ments in the game.
CMU took advantage of their obvious breakdown 
with a string of points, bringing the score up to 9-
2. Miller changed things up a bit on the net, 
running a few plays on the outside then switching 
to the middle.
Gan made an ace on game point, but CMU lost 
the ball to a minor mistake. Eventually, though, 
CMU triumphed with the final score being 15-11.
Senior Todd Symonds said, “We played much 
better against them Friday night. LaPaglia and 
Gannon [middle hitter and setter] were connecting 
well that night.”
Gan said, “Our passing was perfect Friday night. 
It took our hitters a little while to warm up.”
On Monday CMU battled it out against Califor­
nia University of Pa. — a team they defeated 
earlier in the weekend, but wh'o beat CMU at 
Frostburg in the finals. Each team won two games, 
pushing the match to a fifth game rally.
“It was really up and down for us. We rotated in 
a lot of subs and this saved us. After the long 
weekend we were all really mentally exhausted,” 
Pyo said.
He also commented on his teammate’s perfor­
mance, “Walt [Miller] was really serving well dur­
ing this match. He had at least 10 jump serve aces 
total during the five games.”
While CMU resorted to going through the mo­
tions at one point in this dragged out game, they 
did finish it off victoriously, ending the weekend 
well.
As for the current status of the team this far in 
the season, many of the guys are pleased. “Chris 
[Rotelli, the sophomore coach] is doing a great job 
organizing and motivating us,” Pyo said.
The club is looking forward to more tournament 
successes.
Women set new 
scoring mark
TRACK, from page XI
meter relay which along with sophomore 
Stephanie Stine, freshman Saratu Mohammed, 
and freshman Laquetta Carter, finished third 
overall with a time of 4:13.1 which was also a 
new school record,
Several other new women’s records were set 
including freshman Leslie Brown’s new indoor 
school record in the shotput with a distance of 
33'8", Carter’s new indoor school record in the 
400-meter run with a time of 62.98 seconds, 
and freshman VonQuitra Bebee’s new indoor 
school record in the 200-meter run with a time 
of 27.97 seconds.
Coach Dario Donatelli was obviously very, 
pleased with the team’s performance and is 
looking forward to the spring when according 
to Donatelli, “we will do even better outdoors 
because we have some outdoor events that we 
will score more points in, with the people we 
have.”
As for the men, the meet was a success for 
them, for according to coach Gary Mackey, 
“people did meet our expectations. In most 
cases they did better than they did all season 
long.”
The meet was highlighted for the men with 
performances such as that of the four by 400- 
meter relay team, comprised of senior Jeff 
Gregor, grad student Brad Shapiro, sopho­
more Mike Kea, and senior Jarrod Sike.t, who 
took first place with a time of 3:29.05.
Other highlights included junior Jason 
Grusky’s win in the shotput with a throw of 
46'41', and sophomore Demetrius Carrothers 
who took third in the shotput with a throw of 
43'9”.
Meckley was especially pleased with his 
team’s performance after the first session for 
according to him, “the team was in last place 
after the first day, but they came back strong.”
Both coaches and most of the runners willl/ 
return to action starting March 26, when the 
outdoor season begins. The team will debut at 
the University of Pittsburgh relays.
Orioles, Yankees, Tigers look to dethrone Blue Jays in East
BASEBALL, from page 12
Pizza baron Mike Illitch bought 
this team last year and instilled a 
life into it which was apparently 
missing since the. last time they 
won a division in 1987. Illitch 
definitely brought hardball back 
to Tigertown as the Tigers were 
in first place for the initial three 
months of the season but faded 
after the All-Star break due to a 
lack of pitching.
Noticing that, Illitch made 
moves to rectify the situation as 
he had management bring in vet­
erans Eric and Storm Davis, and 
pitcher Joe Boever, who all found 
anew lease on their baseball ca­
reers in Detroit.
Add to that the offseason addi­
tion of pitcher Tim Belcher, and 
the Tigers suddenly have a pitch­
ing staff that is capable of help­
ing the most explosive lineup in 
the majors stay in the game.
Scouts are also saying that 
Davis is showing the form that 
made him the best player in base­
ball during the late ’80s, and he 
will be joined by the always pro­
ductive Mickey Tettleton, Cecil 
Fielder, Alan Trammell, Lou 
Whitaker, and Tony Phillips.
The addition of Belcher also 
gives the Tigers at least three 
pitchers who will be able to throw
200 innings or more this season, 
thus hopefully reducing the work 
load on closer Mike Henneman, 
thus making him more effective. 
The Tigers may not be the most 
talented team on paper, but one 
should never count out a team 
managed by Sparky Anderson.
New York Yankees: For a 
little more than half the season, 
owner George Steinbrenner kept 
his mouth shut, and suddenly 
the Yanks were a contender. But 
the first time he opened his 
mouth, the Yankees suddenly fell 
out of the race. A mere coinci­
dence? Probably not.
But Steinbrenner did one thing 
right this winter and that was to 
give a five-year contract to Gen­
eral Manager Gene Michael, thus 
giving stability to a front office 
which has seen none in the past 
decade or two. This stability has 
allowed Michael to go out this 
winter and transform an already 
good team into a bonafide con­
tender.
Additions of pitchers Terry 
Mulholland, Bobby Ojeda, Xavier 
Hernandez, and veterans such as 
Luis Polonia and Daryl Boston, 
not only solidify an extremely 
productive lineup but also give 
the Yankees the potential to have 
the deepest starting rotation in
the division, if certain players 
stay healthy.
The keys to the season will be 
for slugger Danny Tartabull, 
pitchers Melido Perez and 
Mulholland, and team leader Don 
Mattingly to all stay off the dis­
abled list.
It will also depend on whether 
Mike Stanley can come close to 
producing the same numbers he 
did last year and if pitcher Jim 
Abbott can rebound after an off 
year last year.
But the biggest key will be if 
“The Boss” keeps his mouth shut. 
If so, look for the Yankees to win 
this thing, but if not, then look for 
manager Buck Showalter to lead 
an also-ran.
Toronto Blue Jays: What can 
one say about the first team from 
Canada to repeat as World Cham­
pions? Well, most of the talk 
around the baseball world is that 
fans can expect more of the same 
from this corporate-type ballclub, 
but this is one writer who dis­
agrees, and it’s not because I’m a 
Phillies fan.
The Jays definitely will con­
tinue to be one of the most pro­
ductive teams inbaseball in terms 
of offense. But, although the ad­
dition of Rickey Henderson at the 
end of last season made little to 
no difference in their champion­
ship drive last year, it will this 
year, for now the Jays must 
counter with rookies Rob Butler 
and Robert Perez.
The Jays must also counter the 
loss of All-star shortstop Tony 
Fernandez with a future star 
named Alex Gonzalez, but 
chances are that Gonzalez may
not be ready yet.
So although the names of 
Olerud, Carter, Alomar and Mol- 
itor are still there, there are sev­
eral key holes to fill.
The same goes for the starting 
rotation, as the loss of veteran 
Jack Morris leaves the Jays with 
only three truly dependable start­
ers in Juan Guzman, Dave 
Stewart, and Pat Hentgen.
Todd Stottlemyre and A1 Leiter 
or rookie Huck Flener must ma­
ture quickly for this staff to be 
effective. Trading the team’s top 
prospect, Steve Karsay, did noth­
ing to help.
The Jays are still an excellent' 
team, and they have a general' 
manager in Pat Gillick who has ] 
shown that he will do whatever it' 
takes to put this team over the [ 
top. But can he fill enough holes 
to allow the Jays to win the best 
division in baseball? Probably not.
Projected order of finish: 1) 
Baltimore Orioles 2) New York 
Yankees 3) Detroit Tigers 4) 
Toronto Blue Jays 5) Boston Red 
Sox.
Anuj Gupta, Tartan Assistant 
Sports editor, is a sophomore 
chemical engineering major.
$9.75$11.50 for a 
wash and cut 
with this 
coupon
119 Meyran Ave (Oakland) Between Forbes & Fifth Mon-Sat 8:15-4:30
“the edge in men's haJrstyiing'
for just a cut every day at
Enrico’s
682-3738
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
A R I S
SUMMER PROGRAMS 1994 
May 24-June 10 •June 13-July 22 
June 19-JuIy 9 »July 25-August 12 
The Quality Time of Your Life
More than 50 courses from the University's curriculum, offered for credit or non-credit.French Language Immmersion programs ,v in Paris and Biarritz.Weektsnd excursions to historic regions of France: 
Normandy, Alsace, the Loire Valley, Giverny, 
Chartres, and the French Riviera.
ATtfire this summer your time 
for new beginnings.
Send for our 1994 Summer Programs brochure: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs / US Office 
80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New Yoik 10003 
Tel» (212) 677-4870 Fa>= (212) 475-5205
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
OF PARIS
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG «PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
^ROCHESTER. NY
^SYRACUSE. NY
CORTLAND. NY
CARLISLE 
SHIPPENSBURGrf^ Y0RK( 
CHAMBERSBURG, 
HAGERSTOWN. MD'
WASHINGTON. DCÖ \ 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
'HILADELPHIA 
KING OF PRUSSIA
PlealsRES
1-800-444-2877
mLrLoweo CestoawslS
VIEWS FROM THE BLUFF
DUQUESNE'S 1994 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: 
TRANSFERABLE COURSES*
*S1 ART DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
»ACCELERATED SESSIONS*
Ask about our Science and Language Courses
Registration is EASY - 
by FAX, phone, mail, or in person
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853
FOR YOUR COMPLETE SUMMER 1994 
INFORMATION/APPLICATION PACKAGE

---------------------------------------------------

Attention Undergraduates!!
There is still time to apply to
Carnegie Mellon's new exchange program 
with ITESM, Instituto Tecnologico y de 
Estudios Superiores de
MONTERREY, MEXICO.
Students may attend for either the fall 1994 or the 
spring 1995 semester. All applicants must have a 
minimum of two years of college level Spanish or the 
equivalent.
A six week intensive summer language program will be included at no additional tuition cost.
Since this is an exchange program, students will retain their FULL FINANCIAL AID package.
Applications and additional information are available in the Office of International Education, 2nd 
floor Warner Hall. Or call 8-4969 for details.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 18,1994
There will be an information meeting on 
Thursday, March 10 
4:00pm to 5:00pm
Office of International Education, 2nd floor Warner Hall. 
Meet CMU students who attended ITESM as undergraduates.
*
:WàP
COLLIER
Sports columnist for the
Pittsburgh Post Gazette mi 
humorous radio personality
We would like to extend a 
campus-wide invitation to 
Mr. Collier’s lecture. He will 
be discussing journalism 
and his experiences as a 
sports journalist.
Way, March 8
Light refreshments will
De served.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 199415
High pre-season hopes end in disappointment
TARTANS, from page 9
the All-University Athletic Association 
basketball team. The most points scored 
in a game was done by Kevin Byrne on 
December 4 against Sewanee when he 
scored 29 points. Byrne also had the 
most rebounds in a game (15) on Janu­
ary 23 against New York. On January 7 
jviike Hosni had the most assists in a 
game with 10 against Rochester. And 
finally Conners led the team with 13 
blocks and Hosni led the team with 60
The 1993-94 season was not kind to 
the Tartans, who had big expectations 
back in November. Coach Tony Wingen 
felt that the team was a legitimate con­
tender for the UAA Championship, es­
pecially since the team had a lot of expe­
rienced players.
However, the Tartans got off track 
back on November 19 and never seemed 
to get it back together. The Tartans lost 
a heartbreaker to Grove City 88-86 in 
overtime. Despite the loss, everybody 
had contributed for the Tartans. The 
next day the Tartans lost to Washington 
and Jefferson and Sewanee and sud­
denly they were off to an 0-2 start.
The Tartans seemed to recover as they 
defeated Case Western Reserve (CWRU) 
and then destroyed Roger Williams (103- 
49) in the opening game of the Carnegie 
Mellon Thanksgiving Classic, but then 
disaster struck again. In the champion­
ship game of the CMU Classic, the Tar­
tans were upset by a tough Roanoke 
team, 63-54. Again the Tartans tried to 
recover as they played a splendid game 
against Division I Akron University, but 
disaster was once again right around 
the comer.
After beating Emory 76-60, the Tar­
tans played two of their worst games of 
the year over the winter break. First 
they lost to the University of the South 
87-80, and then they lost to Denison 77— 
63. Not only had the Tartans lost, but 
they also weren’t playing defense very 
well.
The Tartans started 1994 with new 
hope. After defeating Rochester at home, 
they defeated Stony Brook on Long Is­
land (N.Y.). Even though the Tartans
were only 5-6, they were still unde­
feated in the UAA. But the Tartans then 
went on a five-game slump. First they 
were beat by John Hopldns University 
78-56, then they were upset by Brandeis 
at home 79-74, then it was powerful 
New York University in a squeaker 76— 
70, then it was Washington & Jefferson 
93—70. Finally it was Chicago 69-60.
While the first four losses were against 
tough teams, the loss to Chicago was a 
bit of an embarrassment. For Chicago it 
was only their second victory of the year 
and first in the UAA.
However, the Tartans recovered in a 
huge way in the next game as they upset 
Washington University on the road 82- 
80. Then the Tartans gave first-place,
New York all they could handle in a 69-i 
61 loss. Next, on February 6, the Tar-! 
tans got revenge on Brandeis by beating! 
them on the road 78-72. On February!
11, however, the Tartans were thumped, 
by Washington University 104-66. To! 
finish the season the Tartans put to-! 
gether a modest winning streak against' 
three struggling teams (Chicago, Thiel,! 
and Emory) then closed with the loss.
The Tartans finished the season tied! 
for third in the UAA with Brandeis (with! 
a 7—7 record), behind New York (21-4,! 
12-2 in the UAA) and Washington (18-! 
7,11-3). After the Tartans finishedRoch-! 
ester (6-8 in the UAA), Chicago (2-12),! 
Emory (2-12), and Case Western Re­
serve (3-5).
Basketball world prepares for Madness
Atlantic Coast Conference leads way into NCAA tourney
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
Can you feel it? Can you feel the hype building? What time is it? It’s 
March Madness of course, time to plan your betting strategy, pick 
your favorites, and study every aspect of the game in preparation for 
this year’s 64-team NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament. 
The date set for the selection committee to present the 64 invited 
teams and the brackets for the tournament is next Sunday, March 
13.
For those of you who cannot wait until next Sunday to find out who 
is going to get a bid to the NCAA Tournament, I have compiled a list 
of all the teams through last week that still have a chance to make 
the tournament. March Madness has arrived!
The Atlantic Coast Conference can look forward to taking 
about 5-6 teams to this year’s NCAA tournament. Duke and North 
Carolina are assured of receiving bids. Duke was the regular season 
winner, and both teams have been amongst the top five teams in 
America all year. Both teams have also been the number one team 
in the nation at one time this season. Wake Forest is also assured 
ibid after beating both Duke twice and UNC once this season along 
with, a competitve non-conference schedule in which they took 
Vanderbilt to double overtime and played California close only to 
lose by one. Bubble teams in the ACC include Maryland, Virginia 
and Georgia Tech, with Maryland holding the slight advantage.
The Atlantic-10 Conference is coming off of one of its most 
competitive seasons ever and could bring three or four teams to this 
years Big Dance. Both UMass and Temple are locks with outstand­
ing records, top-25 rankings and strong non-conference schedules. 
Bubble teams include George Washington, West Virginia, and 
Duquesne. GWU has the greatest chance with tough games versus 
UNC, Georgia Tech, and a win recently over UMass.
The Big East Conference has made a considerable step in its 
first rebuilding year and could again take four or five teams to this 
year’s tournament. UConn is one of the year’s most suprising team 
with superstar Donyell Marshall. Syracuse and Boston College 
also appear to be locks although BC has not finished strongly like the 
committee would like. Georgetown and Villanova could also 
squeak into the tournament if Georgetown wins out the rest of its 
games and if both do well in the Big East Tournament. One thing to 
their advantage is that both teams have high Power Rankings, 
Georgetown (26) and Villanova (35). Villanova is also noted to have 
the most difficult schedule in Division I, with non-conference games
versus Temple, Florida, and Arizona State to name a few.
The Big Eight Conference is led by undefeated conference 
regular season champion Missouri. A definite suprise to pre­
season scouts, Missouri will be joined by Kansas and Oklahoma 
State. Both have spent some time in the top 25 and Kansas was 
number one for one week this season. The only bubble team 
appears to be Nebraska who has finished strong and had non­
conference games versus Texas and Michigan State. Unless a total 
break down in the final week of the season by Nebraska, look for 
four teams to compete from the Big Eight.
The Big 10 Conference, along with the ACC, shares the rights 
to the nation’s best basketball conferences. The Big 10 is looking 
to take 5-6 teams into this year’s NCAA Tournament. Locks 
include Michigan, Purdue, and Indiana who have all vied for 
the Big Ten regular season title and have been ranked in the top- 
25 all season long. Minnesota also appears to be a lock for this 
year’s tourney with a 106-56 victory over Indiana showing what 
they can do when they want to. Ledby Voshon Leonard, the Golden 
Gophers have played a difficult non-conference schedule that 
place them amongst the elite in the country with a high power 
ranking. Bubble teams include Wisconsin and Illinois.
Another of the suprises in college basketball is the dominance by 
the Great Midwest Conference which is virtually assured of 
taking four teams to this year’s tournament. You can set aside bids 
right now for Marquette, St. Louis, Alabama-Birmingham, 
and Cincinnati. All of these teams have been ranked in the top- 
25 a majority ofthe season, and their non-conference schedules are 
some of the most difficult in the nation.
The Pacific-10 Conference never fails to bring to the table 
some of the most talented and well coached teams in America. 
California, ledby All-Americans Jason Kidd and Lamond Murray, 
is as exciting a team as you will find anywhere. Don’t forget that 
UCLA and the ever-bounding O’Bannon brothers were number 
one at one time this season and they want to taste it again. The 
final lock from the PAC-10 is Arizona who has assured itself a bid 
by clinching the regular season championship. The PAC-10 has no 
conference tournament so don’t look for any bubble teams to make 
here. Washington State and Arizona State both had their chance 
but fell apart in the middle of the season.
In the Southeastern Conference, look forward to the number 
one team in America, the Arkansas Razorbacks, not only getting 
a bid but a virtual number one seed in the Southeast regional. 
Arkansas will be joined in the tournament by locks Florida, 
Kentucky, and Alabama. Florida clinched the Eastern Division 
title when everyone thought Kentucky was invincible. However, 
the mortal wildcats have showed signs that they are not what they 
once were losing against weaker teams, notably South Carolina, 
last weekend. Bubble teams include Vanderbilt and Mississippi 
State.
Seth A. Covitz is a sophomore computer science major.
Overtime victory 
highlights season
BASKETBALL, from page 9
With only three games left in 
their season, the Tartans ended 
strong. They turned on the heat 
against Frostburg State and came 
out with a 70-47 victorv.
The next and final home game 
against Emory proved to be the 
highlight of the Tartans’ season. 
Ranked first in their region, and 
having beat CMU the first time 
around, 78-68, Emory was a for­
midable opponent. But the Tar­
tans came out ready to play and 
took control early in the first half. 
Emory was out-hustled and 
outplayed, and the Tartans won 
in the final seconds of double over­
time by a score of 79-77.
Their final away game of the 
season last week, however, proved 
to be less gratifying, as the Tar­
tans fell to Rochester.
The three seniors on the team 
were major contributors to the 
Tartans’ excellent performance 
over the past four years. Cap­
tains Megahan and Moore, along 
with guard Diane Jakubiak,gave 
much time and effort towards the 
CMU basketball program.
Leading the team was 
Megahan, a 5'8" player from 
North Catholic High School. A 
four-year starter and letter win­
ner, she averagedl6.9 points, nine 
rebounds, 3.4 assists, and 3.2 
steals per game. She has made 
her mark as an exceptional 
player, becoming the second all- 
time leading scorer in the school’s 
history, with 1,454 points. 
Megahan was also selected for 
the All-UAA team four times. Her 
talent and skill as a player made 
her a great attribute to the team 
over the past four seasons.
Moore, a 5'10" senior from New 
Florence, Pa., had an impressive 
career at CMU. A two-year starter
«suBwnv?415 South Craig Street Oakland, PA 15213 (412)687-6728
W SERVING RREAKFAST
MUFFIN.99
EGG AND CHEESE1.19
HAM AND EGG1.39
- BACON AND EGG1.39
WESTERN EGG1.59
SAUSAGE AND EGG1.59
COFFEE / TEA.69
ORANGE JUICE.99
FREE
Volumeu8,ITEM
when you purchase 
another of equal or 
lesser value 
(excluding beverages) I
BUY ONE FOOTLONG, GET ONE OF EQUAL OR LESSER VALUE FOR 990with purchase of 
medium beverage
‘ TV 
ISI w¦ cc
I*
r
i
i
i
i
i
classified
JOBS¡JOUSING
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send Sase for details to: Interna- 
tional,1375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
WANTED!!! (Perfect for colleges) You 
can earn $$$ while you lose up to 29 
lbs. in the next 30 days!!! All natural — 
Dr. Recommended. We need help 
now!!! Call 734-0307 or 421-2353.
COLLEGE ENTREPRENEURS — A
collegiate wholesaling company is 
piloting a new program at Carnegie 
Mellon. Students will have the opportu­
nity to retail college products at 
wholesale prices including t-shirts, 
pillows, etc. For more information please 
call 1-800-537-4355 ask for EFI 
program.
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
Roommate needed M/F for large 
furnished home in quiet residential area 
of Squirrel Hill. Call Dave, 421-0166, 
daytime.
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancún, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and your trip is free! TAKE A BREAK 
STUDENT TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
6” MEATBALL 
SUB FOR ONLY
$1.49
The Tartan Business Office is 
looking for some students to 
help solicit advertisements 
in the local area. Workers wil 
be paid on commission. If you 
are interested please call 
Lauren Heinz at The Tartan 
Office, 8x2111.
Mise
Free money for school... well almost! 
Scholarships Guaranteed — Risk Free. 
Appointments only: Battista's Educational 
Endowment Fund Find (BEEFF) 531 - 
6862.
A humanist chaplain is available for non- 
theistic personalized weddings, ceremo­
nies, and discussions. Phone: 781-7205.
and four-year varsity letter win­
ner, Moore was a valuable player. 
This past season she averaged 
seven points and 6.1 rebounds 
per game. She was also selected 
for the All-UAA honorable men­
tion team.
Jakubiak, a 5'8" guard from 
Milwaukee, Wis., equally contrib­
uted to the team’s performance 
during her career. While rarely 
receiving recognition, Jakubiak 
continued to give her support to 
the team. A three-year letter win­
ner and a reserve player, she was 
consistent and reliable. The three 
seniors will be missed.
As for next season, things look 
good. With 10 returning rookies 
and two returning juniors, head 
coach Gerri Siedl has much to 
work with.
Kupfer and Summerville 
started this past season, while 
the other freshmen continually 
went in off the bench to receive 
valuable playing time. With some 
experience under their belt and 
two-year starter Gretz to lead the 
way, the Tartans have a promis­
ing season ahead.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM 
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
,HTT “'&L-J::
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words.........$8.00 / wk
51-100 words....$10.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
WANTED
Townsend Booksellers. We buy 
thousands of worthwhile books in all 
scholarly and technical subjects and the : 
arts. Best prices paid or generous trade j 
credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used, and ' 
rare books. Open daily: Monday — 
Saturday, 1 lam-6 pm, Sunday l-5pm. ! 
Near campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. < 
Craig) 682-8030.
I4F1'* ®ne Per Customer Per Visit ® Limit One Per Customer Per Visit ® Limit One Per Customer Per Visit I s. ^t_G°od With Any Other Offer | Not Good With Any Other Offer | Not Good With Any Other Offer
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Santander Investment
cordially Invites all interested 
students to attend a presentation
Monday, March 14,1994 
11:30 am 
at 
Porter Hall 223D
Career Opportunities in 
Information Technology
We need experts in the following areas: UNIX, 
MS Windows, Client/Server Architecture, 
C language, Relational Data Bases
Santander Investment, Spain’s Santander Investment has offices In
premier Investment Bankthe following locations: 
Bahamas Lisbon 
Buenos Aires Mexico
Group is an established leader 
in international finance, with a 
recognized expertise in Latin 
American markets.
Caracas Sao Paulo
Hong Kong Santiago de Chile
London Tokyo
Madrid

---------------------------------------------------

T TT TT% T AUH nula Ils1 il ilpin im
Volume 88, Issue 19 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 7 March 1994
Studio combines art and technology
Grad student takes second in pinball competition
By SHANNON GEBNEY
fartan Staffwriter
Many of us have undoubtedly 
passed by the bright blue of the 
mlsating neon sign that reads 
Studio for Creative Inquiry” in 
he College of Fine Arts and won- 
jered about the center’s purpose 
and project.
Wonder no longer: the Studio is 
! department within the College 
jfFine Arts designed to “support 
•ross-disciplinary and explor- 
itory work in the arts,” said 
large Myers, assistant director 
0f the studio.
It was created in 1988 as a 
esource for artists who have 
deas aid projects that need de- 
felopfliep&s an audience, and 
an environment which fosters 
exchange of ideas, particularly in 
interdisciplinary studies.
The studio started out as the 
Center for Arts and Technology 
and was funded by Apple and 
dealt mainly with software. 
“When this funding ended, 
Larry Burgis [former CFA Dean] 
changed the Center to The Stu­
dio For Creative Inquiry,’ with 
the idea that the research should 
be more broad than just com­
puter science; it should also in­
clude arts research,” Myers said.
! “Now we are an arts center as 
opposed to other science-based 
research.
“The work is interdisciplinary; 
it combines more than one area of
study. People collaborate.... The 
image of the artist who goes away 
to the garret and works for days 
and days does not work here,” 
Myers said.
“The artist here would almost 
have to thrive on interaction be­
tween groups to be here,” said 
Myers,“ so, it’s not for everyone.”
Myers said that there are usu­
ally about 12 projects going on at 
any one time at the studio.
Right now the two which are 
there concern virtual reality (spe­
cifically, the creation of a Net­
worked, Virtual Art Museum) and 
Cybemautics.
Cybemautics involves manipu­
lating visualization software to 
make 3-D figures called Cyber- 
nauts.
Myers stated that the fellows 
working on these projects are the 
only two who receive funding from 
the center; all other artists re­
ceive funding elsewhere.
“Since a lot of the work here is 
hard to classify, the first thing we 
do is try to find a language to talk 
about it in.
“The second thing we do is try 
and find an audience.
“For three years I’ve been mak­
ing a mailing list, both in Pitts­
burgh, and in the world.... I call 
this audience development,” 
Myers said.
She went on to say that there 
are primarily four ways that the 
studio engages in this audience 
development: by having fellows
meetings, performances, lectures, 
and open houses.
Open houses are events which 
occur about five or six times a 
year. All the fellows turn on all 
the equipment and use hands-on 
equipment, while selected invited 
guests participate.
“We also try to get our artists to 
make their public presentations 
outside of the studio.
“We had our Japanese interac­
tive sculptor do his presentation 
at the Children’s Museum ofPitts- 
burgh. Our Light Dancer did his 
presentation at the Three Rivers 
Arts Festival.”
Myers said that if you are in­
terested in utilizing the studio’s 
resources, you should stop by and 
pick up a copy of the Project Pro­
posal Guidelines and see if your 
project applies.
She also stressed the impor­
tance of student involvement in 
the studio.
“We employ students as assis­
tants, but they also end up doing 
almost everything imaginable,” 
she said.
“We also use students in 
projects; right now we have two 
computer science and two archi­
tecture students working on vir­
tual reality, and four art gradu­
ates are assisting with 
Cybemautics.
“There are opportunities for 
students to get involved here, to 
work on projects, assist fellows, 
be a part of the studio.”
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Personnel Manager
For every game ever played by any­
one, it feels great to break a record or get 
the highest score. In Skibo’s miniature 
arcade, a CMU regular high scorer in 
pinball has achieved more than just lo­
cal fame. He is the second-best pinball 
player in the world.
David Stewart, a doctorate student in 
electrical and computer engineering, 
)laced second in the Professional and 
Amateur Pinball Association’s (PAPA) 
International Pinball Championships in 
New York City on February 6.
“The competition is considered the 
most prestigious pinball competition in 
the world,” said Stewart, who is also 
president of the Three Rivers Pinball 
Association.
Stewart competed with about 200 par­
ticipants from around the world. In the 
jualification round, Stewart finished 
with a combined score of 2,069 million 
Joints in eight games on eight different 
pinball machines: Twilight Zone, Street 
Fighter II, JurassicPark, Indiana Jones,
Wipeout, Creature from the Black La­
goon, Tales from the Crypt, and Judge 
Dredd. This score ranked 17th out of the 
200 entries, making him the last person 
in order by rank to enter the quarter- 
final competition. However, Stewart 
made an impressive comeback in the 
quarter-finals competition, which con­
sists of three games — one each on 
Judge Dredd, Star Trek: The Next Gen­
eration, and The Who’s Tommy.
The players received 10 points for first 
place, five points for second, and one 
point for third place in each game. 
Stewart had only six points at the end of 
the first two games, so he needed to 
place first in the last game, Tommy. 
After the first two balls, Stewart had 
only 22 million points, whereas the 
leader, defending world champion Yman 
Sheats of Chicago, had acquired 770 
million points.
With Stewart’s last ball, he "Started 
multiball and collected a double super 
jackpot of 500 million points to win the 
game with 880 million points.
In the semi-final round, Stewart led 
each game after the first ball and easily
moved on into the final competition, 
where he came back from behind to 
defeat Sheats in Star Trek: The Next 
Generation, but placed third in Judge 
Dredd and Tommy. Bowen Kerins of 
San Francisco became the new world, 
champion, winning a $4,000 prize. 
Stewart won a $2,000 pot, and former 
champion Sheats placed third with a 
prize of $1,000.
The pinball competition was Stewart’s 
first in the World Championship divi­
sion. Last year, he placed second in the 
amateur division. “It was fun,” said 
Stewart. “I was not a total unknown, 
though. People knew me from the 
netnews.rec.games.pinball bulletin 
board and previous tournaments.” 
Stewart said that the people whom he 
had met electronically only got to see 
him play pinball once. When you play 
really well, “it gives you an added level 
of confidence,” Stewart said.
Stewart had been playing pinball at 
CMU for over a year. He said that before 
November 1992, he saw another pinball 
high scorer, Robert Chesnavich, play 
the Terminator 2 pinball machine in
Skibo. “I was amazed at how well he 
played and how he got such high scores,” 
he said. Stewart started talking to 
Chesnavich, and according to Stewart, 
that’s when his interest in pinball 
peaked. “We started talking about com­
petitions, and he told me about the bul­
letin board [netnews.rec.games.pinball], 
and that’s when the ball got rolling,” 
Stewart said. “Six months later, we found
at least once a day practicing his tech­
niques, though he warns that competi­
tors shouldn’t spend all of their time on 
the same machine.
“You should start spanning out,” said 
Stewart. “You don’t spend time on the 
same machine because you can’t be guar­
anteed that you’ll be able to practice on 
[the same] machine in competition.”
Stewart helped found the Three Riv-
out about the New York tournament.”
Chesnavich and Stewart started play­
ing at Skibo’s arcade regularly. When 
the Twilight Zone pinball machine used 
to be there, Chesnavich and Stewart 
had a friendly competition in which the 
first person to get 10 billion points would 
get a free lunch from the other player. 
Stewart won.
“Before the competition, it was more 
convenient to play in Skibo,” said 
Stewart. As the competition drew closer, 
Stewart said that he was at the arcade
ers Pinball Association (TRPA) with 
Chesnavich last year. The association 
started a city-wide competition last year 
in which people from around Pittsburgh 
formed leagues that played each other 
in pinball games in a 10 week season. 
This year, the Three Rivers Pinball As­
sociation has a maximum number of 
teams in the association’s competition.
“It’s really going well,” said Stewart. 
“The University of Pittsburgh contacted 
us because they’re interested in starting 
Please see PINBALL, page L3
Artist
David Stewart practices pinball in the Skibo arcade.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 1994
Glassware conspires with aliens
respect for linearity. Two years, five days, eight 
hours, and one-eighth of a second later, Chronol­
ogy was invented. Death was born of Taxes’ left 
armpit. From Death, Taxes, and Chronology was 
spawned Life. Death being dead could not pay 
Taxes, so Chronology spun about so fast it turned 
the other way, and Life, retroactive, came to be. 
Law, by virtue of its first letter (see weather/ 
Askew No Shoes waffle/w°k)>fedoff Life as a parasite, and grew so
9 huge it needed a larger name — Bureaucracy.
by Matt Messner Taxes, seeing a possible threat, sliced Bureau­
cracy into a million tiny pieces. But these pieces 
grew like cancers and peppered the universe like 
stars. And then, of a sudden, the paragraph ended.
Thanks to Gideon’s International, Barefoot Re­
porting is proud to present the this-will-defi- 
nitely-change-my-life-if-I-think-about-it-enough- 
and-maybe-tattoo-it-to-my-lovers-ear-or-some- 
thing-like-that-but-at-least-it-will-be-shorter- 
than-this-over-hyphenated-glob-of-silliness Bible 
quote of the month. Galatians 5:9: “A little leaven 
leavens the whole lump.” It’s 
deep. Read it a few times. Tell 
your friends. Start a movement.
Swing sets. Those wonderful 
swing sets we children struggled 
to touch the sky in. Wouldn’t it 
be wonderful if there were such a 
thing made for adult stature? 
Such a creation would take up 
little space and be rather inex­
pensive.
Tell SDC that you’d rather have 
a swing set than some new over­
priced, out- of- budget, piece of 
electronics. CMU could use a 
swing set; we all could. Write to 
your SDC representative. (And 
you thought I was going to sug­
gest something like tossingropes 
off of one of the CFA balconies, 
attaching a piece of wood, and 
swinging in the great hall. Well,
This column will begin where its predecessor did 
end,- with a final proof of the Highlander alien 
slave glassware conspiracy, more commonly known 
as “glasswaregate.”
Familiar with silverware shortages? Curious 
what ‘inclement weather’ could have to do with 
woks and waffle irons? Read on.
Read off, read on, read off, intermittent reader. 
Periodic rebellions by the glassware attempting
Daniel Frey/Tartan Darkroom Manager
to return to its home planet often rendered its 
spaceship (the supposed ‘dishwasher’) useless to 
the Highlander employees. This explains the sil­
verware. Weather, wok, waffle. The letter ‘w.’ See 
the connection? In the beginning there was noth­
ing at all, not even nothingness. All was void where 
taxed or prohibited by law. Taxes were high, pre­
dating both life and death. Taxes also postdated 
life and death. Taxes were ethereal and had no
I would never.)
Matt Messner (mmdm+), undecided H&SS fresh­
man, has an extensive collection of colored duct 
tape. You shouldn’t care. Finger askew@ 
pcl2461.pc.cc.cmu.edu to waste time. Sleep is for 
the tired. Tires are for the car. Cards are for the 
sharks. Shards are for the sun. Legalize mari­
juana. Euthanize euphemisms.
Mellon
College
of
Science
Dean's 
List 
Fall 1993
The faculty and 
staff of the 
Mellon College 
of Science 
congratulate 
our students 
for their 
outstanding 
academic 
performances 
during the fall 
semester.
Biological
Sciences
Anton, Lee 
Deckert, Gerard 
Denny, Mark 
James, Alexander 
Jayakumar, Arun 
Kallenbom, Melissa 
Komenda, Lisa 
Lacenere, Christopher 
Levy, Jodi 
Myers, Cena 
Odell, Sean 
Pizzurro, Mark 
Stabler, Stacy 
Streiff, Raphael 
Tavema, Darin 
Thompson, Barbara
Chemistry
Bortz, Eric 
Hackney, David 
Hartt, Jennifer 
Kukura, Stephanie 
Leychkis, Yan 
Markotan, Thomas 
Midelfort, Katarina 
Petruska, Melissa 
Wake ham, Gregory
Mathematics
Checker, Stephen 
Cushman, Matthew 
Marino, Richard 
Mhaskar, Sachin 
Myers, Daniel 
Ribar, David
Physics
Anna, Shelley 
Gardner, David 
Horwitz, Fredrick 
Miller, Kurt 
Mitchell, Kevin 
Santoro, Andrea 
Tanaka, Clifford 
Thomas, Martin 
Williams, David
Freshmen
Ambrose, David 
Atrostic, David 
Ehatnagar, Akshat 
Blecksmith, Sarah 
Bowling, Michael 
Cerrone, Richelle 
Chemel, Brian 
Cheung, Edward 
Culp, Sandra 
Dudash, Christina 
Durfee, Glenn 
Ermer, Jason 
Folk-Williams, Ben 
Fox, Stephen 
Fung, Jason 
Gauvreau, Daniel 
Hammond, Sean 
Hasegawa, Akira 
Hickman, Frank 
Higgins, Michael 
Hsu, Katy 
Humensky, Brian 
Jindal, Sabeena 
Johnson, Craig 
Kersting, Nicholas 
Marcelin, Paul 
McBarron, Brian 
McIntyre, Kerry 
Messina, Thomas 
Mukhtar, Saleem 
Neal, Everett 
Ng, Andrew 
Ng, Fong Lui 
Nikou, Constantinos 
Noblejas, Jeffrey 
Park, Jung
Prasangsit, Patrawadee 
Quek, Choon Yang 
Raposa, Robert 
Rathbun, Kristen 
Seymour, Andrew 
Singh, Amoolya 
Smith, Benjamin 
Soha, Aron 
Solitro, Matthew 
Stevenson, Todd 
Tableman, Adam 
Tangmunarunkit, Hongsuda 
Turco, Todd 
Urban, Jeffrey 
Ver, Mark
Walton, Jr., William 
Watson, David 
Yoder, Andrew 
Zeiszler, Lee
Alcohol culture differs in Europe
Alien in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
A good friend of mine is turn­
ing 21 this weekend. “Congratu­
lations!” I said when I found out. 
“How are you going to celebrate?”
Stupid question.
“I’m going to get trashed,” he 
said, a gleam in his eye. “I’m 
going to get absolutely, legally 
obliterated.”
This first legal drink is, I have 
found, somewhat of a rite of pas­
sage for American youth. It’s 
something I’m not familiar with.
In England, the legal drink­
ing age is 18.
A well-developed 14 year-old 
can pass as 18. It’s not so diffi­
cult to do. Anyone can go into a 
pub.
Babies bounce on knees while 
their mothers enjoy a nice pint, 
toddlers run around avoiding 
patron’s outstretched legs and 
the odd dart from a game in the 
comer. You can order non-alco­
holic drinks in a pub at 14.
In England, the pub is often 
the social hub of the community. 
It’s where you learn to talk big, 
flirt, meet your dates, get your 
first tasty sips of real, hard cider 
surreptitiously from a grown­
up’s glass.
Beer-making has become very 
popular of late. In England, 
home brewing supplies are sold 
at neighborhood drug stores. We 
always made our own wine and 
beer.
I remember giving a talk to 
my science class when I was 11 
about home brewing, using
slides of my own operation and 
giving the class samples.
Roadside stands in the country 
sell plastic jugs of ‘scrumpy’ — 
potent homemade cider which 
enjoys a reputation similar to 
moonshine—to motorists out for 
a Sunday drive.
Of course, there’s no law 
against having open alcohol in 
cars, or drinking from uncovered 
bottles or cans in public. Chil­
dren often enjoy a glass of wine 
with dinner.
Alcohol culture in Europe is 
not weighted down with the 
memory of prohibition and the 
WCTU. It has never gained a bad 
reputation.
Noticeably absent from British
Do you know anyone 
faithfully said, “I won’t touch 
cohol before I turn 21” ? No, ne 
ther do I.
Laws that cannot be enforce 
simply promote law-breaking
Why is my friend going to ge 
smashed out of his mind to 
ebrate his birthday? Because h( 
allowed to.
Why do young people place sue 
importance on getting drunk? Bi 
cause they’re not allowed to.
It’s like getting children to got 
bed. No matter how tired thi 
are they always resist. “I’m g0jn 
to stay up all night,” they ga 
yawning.
Of course, teenagers, who don 
have to abide by a fixed bedtirç
Vo loumeo8, Is1 9Ca Vr ngI1o Is1 rni
MUem sCa ng Is1 MnvvCoUIty VI.r Ps1b1 
tnC m1ebo In Iemh aUu, gmUbI, v11I tnCb 
8eI1r, u1I tnCb gUbrI rU9r ng b1em, seb8 
MU81byyyy
drinking culture is the use of ID. 
Driver’s licenses don’t come with 
photos, and the minimum driv­
ing age is 18.
Of course, no one leams to drive 
until they can afford a car, which 
is sometime in their 20s, so no- 
one expects you to have a license.
Actually, the culture as a whole 
isn’t too fond of identification 
items.
Social security cards, issued at, 
yes, 18, don’t feature a number 
one ever has to memorize, or, 
indeed, carry around in one’s wal­
let.
Not having to rely on fake IDs 
means that young people aren’t 
encouraged to buck the system 
by lying.
often refuse to get o?at cf bed.
What are we dealing with here' 
Human nature.
We all want what we can’t get 
In England it’s just a little easiei 
to get, that’s all.
I just hope my friend sobers up 
enough for class on Monday—
I can wish him a happy birthdaj 
and give him that special some 
thing— a nice big bottle of Peptu 
Bismol to help him on his way.
Micki Kochanskyj, a senioi 
English major and Tartan senioi 
staff member, has long since given 
up her home brewing ventures in 
favor of more productive pursuits 
—like homework, and homework, 
and, yes, homework.
WANTED
by
PleasRE
DEVELOPMENT GROUP
“Your Friend”
Who is TRILOGY?
Four years ago a group of ambitious Stanford undeigrads set out to prove they could do anything they 
set their minds to. They started Trilogy and assembled a team of the most talented, creative and 
dedicated people they knew. Together they developed a software product that is revolutionizing the 
way high technology companies do business.
Trilogy, now headquartered in Austin, TX, was also chosen as on of Fortune's 25 Coolest Companies ii 
1993. And we're looking for people who will help us stay that way! What better place to look than 
here at Carnegie Mellon?
This is where you (and the money) come in.
Stop and think of the greatest people you know; the person in your study group who always had the 
answer before anyone else, the person on your intramural team who never "dropped the ball,"...
Then take action! Send us a copy of your friend's resume along with a letter telling us why your friend 
is destined to be Trilogy's next superstar. If we hire that person based on your introduction, we'll 
send you $1000. No strings attached.
No, you can’t turn yourself in. We know you think you're great. If other people think you're great, too, 
then we want to talk to you.
Please Send Resume to:
Carnegie Mellon Recruiting 
Trilogy Development Group 
6034 W. Courtyard Drive, Suite 130 
Austin, Texas 78730
Positions Available: Development • Consulting • Sales/Marketing
$1000 
lSOLlU
Don't get lost. Come to Trilogy and have an impact.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 1994L3
Sig Tau helps out at local charity sports auction
By JESSICA FANG
fartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Sports Auction, held 
to benefit Pennsylvania Special Olym­
pics, was held on February 21 at the 
Clark Bar and Grill near Three Rivers 
Stadium. Traditionally, it has been held 
at the Pittsburgh Sports Garden which 
closed down unexpectedly. The new lo­
cation was not as spacious, but the Sports 
Auction committee made the best of it.
“It’s a nice place where people can 
hang out, get a drink and watch some 
television,” said Marie Pisch, who has 
worked on the event for five years.
Over 100 quality items were up for 
bid, such as a Yogi Berra baseball, a 
Charles Barkley basketball, and a Joe 
Montana 49ers jersey. The starting 
prices for the items ranged from one 
hundred to twelve hundred dollars. The 
event was broadcasted on the KBL sports 
Network from 8pm to 11pm from a stu­
dio set up in the comer of the Clark. TV 
viewers could call in during the broad­
casting and make their bids. The gates 
opened at 5pm and for a five dollar 
donation, you could also be a part of the 
live sports auction at the Clark Bar and 
Grill. The Clipped Wings, a retired stew­
Vineet Agarwal/Tartan Photographer 
Sig Tau brothers Chris Cenker, Kamal Garg, Bill Moher, Bob Bruce, Sean Hart 
attended the charity sports auction at Clark Bar and Grill.
ardess group, handle all the phone calls. 
The bidding was mostly phone-in and 
seemed fast and furious with the prices 
on the bidding board getting updated 
every few minutes.
Sigma Tau Gamma began helping with 
the Sports Auction this year. Aron 
Temkin, Sig Tau alum CFA ‘92, works 
with Pisch and saw this as an opportu­
nity to get Sig Tau involved. He called
Kamal Garg, junior computer science 
major and Sig Tau philanthropic chair, 
with his suggestion. “They jumped at 
the chance,” said Temkin. “They can 
work with us and service the commu­
nity. It benefits all of Western Pennsyl­
vania, not just Pittsburgh.” This is the 
second year Temkin has been involved 
with the auction. He ran one of the 
bidding boards in his first year, and this
year he is in charge of the Sports Auction 
Committee.
“All of the items up for bid are dona­
tions and every day, all year long in the 
time leading up to the auction, we have 
to write and call people in sports to ask 
them to contribute,” said Temkin.
“We’ve never had a problem with get- 
tingitems,” said Chris Shovlin, the West­
ern Pennsylvania development direc­
tor. “People are very willing to help.” 
When asked how she got involved with 
the Sports Auction, Pisch replied, “My 
friend used to run the auctions and he 
mentioned to me that they needed help. 
All of the money raised here tonight will 
go to the Special Olympics in Hidden 
Valley, probably between thirty and forty 
thousand dollars. It’s very busy and hec­
tic, but it’s for a good cause.”
“It was a little slow at first,” said Garg, 
“but a lot of fun. It’s a good event for the 
school and gives us a chance to get out 
and still hang together. You have music, 
a bar, fraternities, and sororities — it’s 
a good way to meet people and do things 
for the community.
They are putting a lot of trust into us 
with items worth thousands. CMU ad­
ministration was [also] very supportive; 
they lent us a van so we could transport
the brothers down to the Clark. There is 
enormous involvement among the broth­
ers. It didn’t even take much effort to 
drum up support—everyone was pretty 
excited about helping. Even though ev­
eryone has a lot of work, over 80% of the 
house [Sigma Tau Gamma] is here, and 
I think that says a lot. The motivation 
for us to get actively involved with the 
community wasn’t always there. This 
provides an incentive.”
“I must commend Kamal [Garg] for 
his organizational skills,” says Pisch. 
“Sometimes, there are too many or not 
enough people here at the same time 
and we are either totally rushed or there 
are people standing around with noth­
ing to do. However, Kamal provided con­
tinuity between the shifts and every­
thing is working out wonderfully.” 
“Interaction is the key,” says Garg. 
“It’s important for an organization to 
use its members to get together and 
make an impact and show their poten­
tial. Its important for them to do things 
together. It’s a large part of brotherhood. 
I have to thank the Special Olympic 
Committee for letting us get involved. 
This is a good model philanthropy, and 
I hope we will participate again next 
year.... This is a long-term commitment.”
Qrad wins 
competition
PINBALL, from page U
a campus tournament.”
The TRPA attracted 
Stewart’s teammate, Ellen 
Franfcel of Shadyside, to com­
petitive pinball. According to 
Stewart, when she joined the 
league, she was the top fe­
male player. Stewart con­
vinced her to go to the world 
competitionmNewYorlv,and 
she became the new women’s 
world champion, earning a 
$1,000 cash prize.“The 
iTRPA] caters to pinball play­
ers, both men and women, of 
all skill levels who have in­
terest in this sport,” said 
Stewart.
After Stewart finishes his 
thesis in April, he will com­
pete in another international 
competition in Chicago. 
Stewart’s tip for competitive 
pinball players is to learn ball 
control.
“Ball control is independent 
of any machine that you play,” 
said Stewart. There are three 
important components to a 
successful pinball game: con­
trol, aim, and concentration.
“It takes practice,” said 
Stewart. “You mustn’t lose 
concentration, or else get back 
on track and try again. Frus­
tration means loss of concen­
tration.”
SHPE places second for 'Scrape Away’ design
By TONYA RADO
Assistant Features Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Student 
Chapter of the Society of His­
panic Professional Engineers 
(SHPE) received second place in 
the 16th annual National Career 
Conference Design Competition 
held in Austin, Texas, February 
2-5.
The team gave a presentation 
of their design “Scrape Away” in 
front of a panel of six corporate 
judges and the general public on 
February 3 in the Austin Con­
vention Center. In addition to the 
second place award, the team re­
ceived $4000 for their chapter at 
CMU.
“Scrape Away” is a retractable 
screen containing a heating ele­
ment that will quickly remove ice 
and snow from the front wind­
shield of an automobile.
This practical device can be 
operated manually by a remote 
control similar to car alarms, or 
with a timer. It eliminates the 
need for users to brave the harsh 
elements to scrape ice and snow, 
hence the name “Scrape Away.”
Elliot Mora, a team member, 
originally thought of the concept 
after encountering snow and ice 
on a daily basis.
As a resident of California, he 
had never dealt with hazardous 
winter elements. Arriving in 
Pittsburgh, “I had seen others 
endure the early morning 
struggle to scrape their wind­
shields,” he said.
This inspired a range of alter­
native ideas to scraping, includ­
ing periscoping jets of hot water 
and a heating pad that can cover 
the windshield. Once these ideas 
were presented to the design 
team, the design for “Scrape 
Away” began to develop into a 3- 
D model.
“Scrape Away” functions in a 
way similar to existing automo­
bile technologies. The remote de­
vice resembles those of car 
alarms. The heating element is 
similar to those used in rear win­
dow defoggers. In addition, the 
reflective screen enables it to be 
used as a sunscreen to protect a 
car from the sun’s harmful rays.
The installation of “Scrape 
Away” involves two primary 
stages. First, an electrical sys­
tem needs to be installed and 
second, the placement of the de­
vice in an automobile’s cabin via 
bolting and mounting brackets. 
The only other permanent attach­
ment to the inside of a car would 
be strips of velcro, placed at the 
bottom of the windshield to at­
tach the screen.
“Scrape Away” is marketable 
due to the ability to install it into 
most vehicles, its dual use as a 
sunscreen, and its simplicity of 
use. All of the ideas incorporated 
completely detail the design of 
“Scrape Away” as a practical and 
user-friendly alternative device 
to window scraping.
SHPE-CMU’s student chapter
design team consisted of team 
leader Jerry Fries, a senior civil 
engineering/engineering and 
public policy (EPP) major; sopho­
more mechanical engineering 
majors, Mario Hidalgo and Jaime 
Morales; sophomore chemical 
engineering major, Michael 
Borrero; freshman mechanical 
engineering major, Andrew 
Flores; and freshman H&SS ma­
jor, Elliot Mora.
The National Career Confer­
ence was designed to stimulate 
the creative intellect and 
entrepreneural spirits of His­
panic college engineering stu­
dents.
The Design Contest consists of 
three phases: submittal of a pre­
liminary design, submittal of a 
detailed design and the formal 
presentation. Ten SHPE student 
chapter presenters were chosen 
as finalists. Of these, the top five 
designs were selected and 
awarded a total of $15,000.
The University of Colorado, 
Boulder received first place for 
their design of “H.I.KE.R. Brace.” 
Other teams participating in the 
competition came from various 
universities such as Cal Tech, 
University of Arizona, and Texas 
A&M.
Carnegie Mellon was the only 
team representing the area east 
of the Mississippi River. “The 
judges really liked our presenta­
tion, especially the computer 
drawings. They were really im­
pressed,” said Hidalgo.
SHPE is relatively new organi­
zation to the CMU community, 
consisting of 15-20 active mem­
bers.
The organization received its 
national charter, recognizing it 
as an official chapter, during last 
year’s SHPE National Career 
Conference held in Chicago, and 
has made many accomplishments 
in order to gain recognition both 
nationally and within the CMU 
community.
This is the first year the team 
was able to compete in the SHPE 
contest. “It’s exciting to be a part 
of a minority group that has im­
proved so much in the past year,” 
said Hidalgo, “It’s fun helping 
the group succeed both at CMU 
and beyond.”
The SHPE student chapter pro­
vides an excellent opportunity to 
apply engineering and other skills 
that one learns in college and 
also dramatically improves one’s 
leadership skills.
“It gives a sense of belonging,” 
said Borrero. “We can sit down 
with people who have had simi­
lar experiences and culture; this 
can be crucial since there are not 
many of us here to support each 
other,” he said.
Sumitra Thinagara Sundram, 
a sophomore chemical engineer­
ing major said, “I joined SHPE, 
although I’m not Hispanic, be­
cause I enjoy Hispanic culture, 
and I felt that [it] had more ac­
tivities planned for engineering 
students in general.”
SHPE promotes Hispanic par­
ticipation in the field of engineer­
ing here at CMU, and it offers a 
challenge to take part in design 
contests and other competitions, 
get exposure in the field of engi­
neering, and just have a chance 
to hang out together.
Although SHPE strives to make 
minorities feel welcome and com­
fortable in their new surround­
ings, it is very difficult to meet 
everyone’s individual needs.
“I feel that for some degree I am 
isolated, but overall, I am com­
fortable in this institution,” said 
Galel Sanchez, a freshman me­
chanical engineering major. 
Eduardo Gonzalez, a freshman 
biology major, said, “There are 
hardly any of us and I feel out­
numbered and underrepre­
sented.”
The SHPE student chapter 
aims to increase the number of 
Hispanic engineering and science 
students at CMU via the devel­
opment of programs. The activi­
ties are designed to increase ca­
reer awareness and preparation, 
encourage relationships with pro­
fessionals, develop leadership 
skills, and promote academic ex­
cellence. In addition, SHPE par­
ticipates in cultural and social 
activities.
“SHPE brings together the few 
Hispanics here at CMU and pro­
vides a group with common 
backrounds, a forum in which to 
address any number of issues,” 
said Mora.
MANNES
c o i, L i: <; S o F \i i s i c
Artistry & Community
At Mamies they go together. The skills, understanding ami originality of 
artistiy are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and support we 
community. That's why Mamies graduates succeed.
•Major Studies in all orchestral instruments, 
piano, organ, voice and opera, guitar, 
historical performance, composition, theory 
and conducting.
Programs of study: Master of Music. 
I’ost-Graduate Diploma. Bachelor i)f Music, 
Uachelorof Science. Diploma. Artist's Diploma. 
Scholarships awarded in all majors. 
Dormitory rooms are available.
For additional information about the 
College, Application and Audition 
appointment: Write or call Marilyn Groves. 
Director of Admissions. The Mannes College 
of Music. 150 West 85th Street, New York.
NY 10024. 800-292-30-10 or 212-580-0210 
AM A division of the New School 
? f or Social Research.
New York City Auditions:
January 5,1994;
March 7,8,9,10,11,1994; 
May 24,25,26,27,1994; 
August 25,26,1991«
Chicago Auditions:
February 1,1994
Los Angeles Auditions:
February 2,1994
San Francisco Auditions:
February 3,1994
682-7272
We've gone crazy!
,Is,m nwg nwo 9Bs,8l19j
ANY LARGE PIZZA 
WITH ONE TOPPING 
ONLY
J 00 + TAX
Monday 3/7 only
FREE BREADSTICKS 
AND LARGE TWO 
TOPPING PIZZA ONLY
97 +TAX
TWO LARGE ONE 
TOPPING PIZZAS 
ONLY
95 +TAX
Tuesday 3/8 only j
$9.
$7
Thursday 3/9 only |
TWENTY-FIVE CENT 
COKES WITH ANY 
PURCHASE
COKE, DIET COKE, SPRITE, 
GRAPE, OR ORANGE
8 
I 
I 
I 
8
Thursday 3/10 only 1
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROUP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE ANY SIZE ORDER 
AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET 
THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 + TAX.

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
IfM MIMI IS HIM H6LR IN 1ML WlHWtf ? 
Ill ONI WHO POL1. NOTHING W SLEEP3 
til STOAU HIM OUl FLAT IN IIIL RK. ROOM 
ill' HWf. A NtW RUG IV .HE'S CHEAP '
•\ S\;
f ¦
fc — 
a
T" ”*
f YES. X WHY ARENT YOJ TEACHING 
¡PALMIN' J US THE GENDERS OF
NOONS.’ ______^
j |/ 
k
\S 'DESK’ MASCULINE? IS ’CHAIR" 
FEMININE? FOREIGN KlDS KNOW, 
Bur HE DON'T 1 NO WONDER WE CANT 
COMPETE IN A GLOBAL MARKET.'
1 DEMAND SE* EDUCATION^
Al WONDER IF HER \ 
DOCTOR KNOWS SUE 
1 MIXES AU. THOSE / V MEDICATIONS. J
^f\
f
*:*
* ^
¦#%
S'S . 
db if1
( TRIFLE NOT WITH 1 WIRED TIGERS )
«•!.' 21
I LIKE FOLLOWS THE HEMS.'
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS KNOW I WCNT 
SVT STILL FOR ANY StRVOJS DISCOS«*! 
OF COMPLEX AND BORING ISSUES.
THEY GWE ME VMM 1 WANT- ANTICS. 
EMOTIONAL CONFRONTATION. ScwND BITS. 
SCANDAL. SOB STOWES AND PoPOLARITi 
POLLS AIL PACKAGED AS A SOAP 
OPERA ANO WORSE RACE.' IT'S VERY 
--------lOOOOOOOOOL UTIUNI,pTpTgL
"
THEN COMMENTATORS 
WONDER WHY TUE 
PUBLIC \S CYNICAL 
ABOjr PDLVTICS.
I 5AW A SIGN 
ON A RESTAURANT 
tt»R THAT SAID. I ^ •?
'HO SHIRT. NO SHOES. / —
HO SERVICE "
3BR KR HKHeGR sl7 W
ANYTHING ABOUT PANTS '
IF I WENT IN WEARING 
SHOES AND A SHIRT. Jt 
3BR TC n,TIoL IuUtGi G 
u,9U IC oUN9U 4U LG
i THEYD PROBABLY \I SERVE YOU WITH f- | 
-* •'* \ court summons.^
CMON. LETS SEE • 
IF MOM WILL TfUs
us -BR 0-S oit«®!
I'VE HIDDEN A CACHE OF 
SNOWBM1S BEHIND EMERY 
TREE IN THE VARO.'
1 P
tude
NOH WHEN MY y 
ENEMIES COME ( 
AFTER ME. 1 \
NEED. ONLY RUN 
TO THE NEAREST 
TREE TO BE 
INSTANTLY miS.J
IT OFFENDS THE VMM! Kp TWT 
NATURE \S INDITFEWEUT TO VIS.
NMURE DOESNT CARE IF 
PEOPLE LWE OR DIE . \T 
REFUSE TO BE WED.
IT DOES WHATENER \T WANTS 
AND ACTS LIKE PEOPLE DONT 
MATTER IT WONT CONFIRM 
OUR RIGHT TO BE HERE 
\
THAT m& TEDPVLÌ 'UMWUVl 
CRAZV- WE CANT 
STAND BEING J ‘ 
IGNORED. ITS oJT-i-j 
iUSOLTING AND | ^
-HEY.'
1 THINK THAT'S ALSO 
WHY SOME PEOPLE 0»' 
LIKE CATS.
ITS ABCwT A GUY WHO FUCKS 
THROUGH TV CHANNELS WITH 
HIS REMOTE CONTROL

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
©Wrt-B^
^MA+r
ORoe/\j|jJ6UFeiMHELL,
Plo< -Thicks aì sueila 
rtACKS FLAMHCr RU6BUC ro fi5-fgd>j<S-r CelCbraaa
vJ^UCOMt
by DcxTnQT naepsbyc
Vf5/<Hr |iL./|WD\ /wAir, V/Arf!yjurue fi-UAji abe' \ I sonerwfJir's ja>Jwe-d. i -rnooc-Hi 1
¿00 Mi'&Hf SC- urREy
f0d rnr vcariy /' rtiRfMU <4Rf.S >/ Ar '"^3 fo M
X HOPE <J0U KiQS 
LEARn) THE 1£SSok) 
OF " 3 STRIKES 
. iJOO'RE OOT." y
MMM- J05T ¿3 I fHOUéH-f; i >ceM <(? as- cAU&nr i>J 
THF TLOr Of A &4& MOV\Z
¦> dOODLEDOOOl-C
2^Lfog?l.
‘Well, yes, that is the downside, Fluffy. ... When 
we kill her, the pampering will end.”r Ce1: iKshrd
AC.-rUAU'i', I HWAJf 
VFfRSf UI3M-^
VJCLL, 4-r LEASf 
fH/S COMIC'5 FINALLY &01 A VL01... 
KILLER ftU/0»JV 
WOULD UAVe-
9Claur so snggiMI OAKY UttW
rw^r wr 
^ COULD iWF &CB/J ueRF.
^ Slt-M... J
f UEV 
¦SheM.1
wf niret-Hutr -rvn-s P>R. A
\ geiKMt-f CheiE...________________g^Prr.
1 £ump/W AJiShjr tSf6(lu^y 3,0-THE"
1 _.°E£lC€5 -A ft- CJHM/'Hi i^EUJS-
\/uM, is rrV ¿STTIj V Pa^...
W olH oirie^ \ J|rY J v3/- | IT
\\V»“ flueeo J |> '>sge\ I
\ TK IS (W UcH 5 T- h Tj
"1X11014 IT TH‘4 --------- uouJ Yiu'i-L
MAKS' Tue CRIME it IVJCIBElOT RUPoft-T/ 
MÌ&tE You bo! ^
L“-»!- OT THf ‘LVEt'
U«.U«U i>fJTiU4éS R-a-ICiw^K 
fAoO^.'i To T«.-y To Pufl-crf 
r^f'S NA^T|onAl. ?ufc
H( t'n coitati06 Moio&Y Fb/^<
‘What? MacDougal is being promoted over me? ... 
Well, that does it! I won’t take no orders 
from no stinkin’ sodbuster!”
w 1-c 'JV y, w«< »-mOF y<M r^rU JiWST <LToi-
oh^hi JAi>°Kl, IT1^ AupftevJ.,. 4oto's 
Gd-BS tfAUO ? Joi-W Ufi Y0,'(- 
fit® /VtL -f0N L!is r.ijOTH es„,
ftl, [-[L txBG11 weveR Gv^jss, wrfeef 
I'W C-ftLUMfc V0lA P^O^A«Y UJELUj l£T<f> \
/jSi IT 'fH\S iJAV-----\
Co^i-V Yoh Cowe
Lwncs w 6&T wt ca(i?
- fM) Ms N SriCKSHIFT 
\ -DAV5 ft/if OK /
Eric Hol'd. /
STqPip. CutMi»'/. ; 
XÈMB/tte/lSSEDy'
^»rr~
I MEAkIT YC5UR. 
FlIO&Efi.T^rRT^J OF|=,c£S
'X^Ac>o^¿.c> -Vo;(w ftLfHABFTic-PrL o/liigfij
(hj’DdZ'/J ¿_-------n cArfiS-a «Ni n[c] 0a,£c^-
t>ecaij 
ee-ic
2,[E;L
SiVM >J
^ 6i/eft.yow£ El St 'Jno 
SerJt tH^i^- flfilTHtLpe's Oux 0(2. 
Puts up o><fH Me.
Hi,'This 1*3 THe ¦pocTo^-'s opf|CE- 
TH£ 15(2.. CftM'T TAvCE CUT Vol(1^ 
STiTWi^ F^iDAV, Ai»
How /\g,ouT K^EY-T oJ€TK.?
ww Rha/ uMb
THAT AU,
W-/ido«T?
Uvty h 1.uP1M b
(3E A.T \ 
^l=STèe.tj Ps/Cri \ 
pA RhEsM /SAMD/yaes 
otO
L<^^c>&e*,. i-ie / 
a52 5mE dTH£*g-£. y
‘Sorry, Bobby, but you know the rule — no 
swimming for a week after eating.”G^£ RiH
I A... Kli> U/' b­lmmVWovJiOta.
j Twfs ^^^WE Os 
I EM AT THE 
TAe.TAM''E\J&£'l 
1 OP THE r-
^-\'leAR.
1 WHM H^FPt^^S 
IF i>ecue.n^^ 
oncHts os7 jOpen Season ^ iuC or© j iferrey
FRumUPlOREt-SE 
the-i'll catch us
(SO, UH... wusJ 
y ARE WE A 
WO-Ect\Nfr IHEiel
Dot^'T TOOW
Wlut. CAVjSe CANCER. 
ANS> GErslWAu WABTiAlreack i Do. ¦\ Without the L
H102EM ^CXHJET v. Hfr<:Hiv;e. ^(So ouri, wia. 
> WIN, Moo r-' NfvV. MOvO 1 
7 86 QOVB.T'. )
/ TU« IS
\MH6eE ,hlM
Gwah1Nv' .w
V 6« '. f
‘What a find, Ms. Dinkins! ...It's Mailman, all right- 
but remarkably, this specimen is fully intact, with 
his Canus nipponicus still attached!”
á 7P9c4MTM HE 9tA .a
I T4«7W/"UEmiNE: 
5viv»o TO COkA£ t yI)o,MN , MA'! J.E y 
R- 5/TMHO THE>r-6i«.n1 
\ AW lMC.EClt 
IT. rJ
cam/
1 ii 10,2 love v.
my Km“** on *
< ; |/aider:, vaiderar 
fiderà Ka ha
Hu theke vt is'. 
^N6 NOvM for. a ic­omeT cghweobcr 
is-, Sak>tp,&e.) r
\ "WET won't
LET ME HAV) E 
FR02E M -^^JOQ&^RT. >
/ OH BQH A 
AoGmm 
.FOTfcTOESj
,fvUpcgt .bed,I hate Ai/*i.R9pm4Sm-
/ Uei,\ 
rfsom
,\WE A 
.CARROT.
THAT'5 W 
Her DOG-.
More tension on the Lewis and Clark expedition.

---------------------------------------------------

0wR1“UG fASa Ág

---------------------------------------------------

-THE tflSAOVEWTVRK Of
IV W» HOLD'
thefe!Vou2 
ARE NOW 
PRISONERS 
OF THEKev/ze/-L*ND,
BY RAMSEY HONG- HQ.v; ® MARCH ISM
' mm, Hoerrm moaesfVR IMTHAMM. , RlCOCHemb I oFFYmeom /. LMTWSBK. / .
tfPlACl' [normal A HO StKKTf,WHAT’ DAISY.1 DIO YOU HEAR THA—
coFS/e. ims imit> mmf&tsomuty -imomu me / emtoay Tar si>m> muon-/cAnym-reu.i’ ¡—
FD’’61L
m HDiDrr, hotmtfi. v isrsmr'm 1 wzxeoLpex.
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
All Ustvil wlllkjromej into that fUsli.. Vl«n 
he co fries o^, ht will m m .—a longer be
/ So me<*n-
Randal I is ~fdO obnoxious 
for his Ownjjood. We've?»+ him inTo +KeV^evil-sutkin^ mac-Wi^g.'QjYrrrf. 
who's NE*J-
crooffi1
AAAM£E£f
PA NTT?To be COWTIWVEP,
C'MON, GIRL , LET'S GO 
SEE WHAT WE CAN WHIP 
UP FOR BREAK.FAST THIS 
^ MORNINS
um«,
E>v:DAN fREY 9- ANPREW SPRDUUE^
J 1 WONPSR IF 
ysfDNey woulp RATHER HAVE" EGGS 
9 CN n,[alzho 
¡, 7 THIS MORNINS?
"V oH, S I DNE.YJ3 yOO-MOO,
>. SfDNgy
T^pWWf
Hfcl>ELtCTRXC MQU5E ASEsEJeRsJ .\pi^=r\w\p
THEY SKY V/E'ÄE NOT AN 
Ei^UM-r-OPftjRTuNlTy 
i’/'AP LoYfe-R j fc > / b £>.)R N'i* N G- 
Voü *15 N.KXI^NV. hfeUSET.
oulB1 .E 6o to the 
SToae ANiO GET So*A£ 
E-XOTiC cwE.R.PftictD 
E ARv-^ -PE.ATH 6ooßM€T¦---- ICtCfttAMl j------
THEY SAXb , " YoU’Rc 
LUCKY v/£ Af^M'T Pi-S- 
SUX-HCs- YCO. ”
fl'K tiOTHE MOoPs FOR SOMETHING simple yer ele6a>jt\-. ftOrA 'M' RA5P8t£B.^ v-—, RHUfAQA. /----
( X'f^MoREIdTHt^ N\OOP FOftTRvPut- 
ft^PASS FüOGEFCEAkoüT.e>fctLUCWT\<?EA.
ÜOO'RE. STARTING TO ME A^GfcM.THE Oev/ioo? CHOICE IS
SOPER-pOPER SHAA0S O' F0O6E ‘M1 p£A*Jv/T 9lTT.
^Soeßy.O^T X'vt' 
Z-R M'j eyeSP00K3 CAKJO^'BAa CrtOfJfc^) s^SvjJvRu-0 - RAtt A^-^
^SoT r CA^ ALßtAOy 
TASTE THE BByJimS 
PAT VAiOitLA SEA»J, vOiTH SoTTEß ÖuoßS
CßEA/M. y-----'
X MUST INSIST 0^BLUEStRRy PooDkOG 
•fO' JAKOCA G^MBalL. sV^S0RPßiSE. _^S
r HfcßaiiYoy i VPe-EAi»!
ÖWW, Trt AT _/i’ iHpeZr/WT^PQftH y
'A6A5W, I'M IW n|E .MIDDtZOffi FIOhTjb^HgE..,_yrrtLl6*J0R6 bOUR> PETTd IrOSOtEfOCE A>Jp 
f^ERtuy SA^ THIS: »AOLHA-CHOfcE-A ilOiTH EicrPA 66ö yoUA.
r LETS FACE IT. 
loe'Re hopeless iy QEAQ U) OC-tD. .
I G06SS WE've 60T TO LEaRkJ TO CON\PßOMlSE.
'>A'j DECISION 19 FlMAU’. SUTXERSCÖTCH 
'Ni* TAEfy OOOßtE- SyRop JuQ»u££:^.
^3m/VERyUEUiVm/Burwußneu \¡WINSUfMCB I^TFOUCf 15 J.SE.l I A^DYOvHflVtTD/ \ 5^ /ry y
^ vvHllf VOJ-ßE \5Pi.L ndeyrn/TatPh
HEt- ROflMie...”” P2o/ f¿'HourOfU£LL,£tCV5E C6 ^ TOR. CARING.' ^r \-c5Urt m 1 TrfWlc tH^T iooN'rsi7^t>V ACMNCE^J
TA/ttrißE'
^ CoulP you ¿¡¿N' THlS‘lEf?HlMAriCtvjo(= 
H0t’5lNö A6f2EEHEHr‘‘ V FORM?
•"*3ff»9-UVw A8 -hbbl© 3xw?iOf*Rj- J3aoxW3d 3 wov-h\>bl -h •(

---------------------------------------------------

The following University Committees are in search of student members:
STUDENT
Academic Review
Campus Services Advisory Committee SENATE
Design Review Committee
Health Services and Insurance Advisory Committee TT^pivrr 
Ryan Award Committee J
Sexual Harrassment Committee i T
Trustee Committees: ^ ^
Alumni 
Budget 
Development
Enrollment SENATE
Undergraduate Academic Advising Award Committee 
University Committee on Discipline STUDENT
University Parking Committee
University Student Affairs Council SENATE
Vice President's Student Advisory Committee
STUDENT HH STUDENT WSE STUDENT
MlQBn
STUDENT
nmCMU
«4'KCMU
SENATESENATE.N.im
SENATE
If you are interested in participating, please contact Kevin Hughes in the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs at 
8x2075, or by email at kh42@andrew.cmu.edu. Applications will also be made available at the Skibo Info. Desk.
Finally something for college 
that just got less expensive.
18
/f tffffi fff iiminn---------v
;•
Macintosh LC415 4/80, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Extended Keyboard II, PLUS the Apple StyleWriter U.
Only $1,507 after $100 rebate!
Right now, when you buy an already affordable Macintosh1 LC 475 with mance in the future, if you need it. But that’s not all. You’ll also take home _0_
an Apple' StyleWriter" II or LaserWriter," you’ll receive a $100 mail-in rebate seven popular software programs while supplies last. That’s a complete fl
from Apple* That’s a hundred bucks now on a computer with fast 040 Macintosh system with a lot of goodies, at a really unbeatable price. So,
performance. Plus the Macintosh LC 475 is upgradable to PowerPC" perfor- what are you waiting for? College may last four years, but this offer won’t. Appß
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
¦r through 3/31/94 or ubile supplies Itisi. Sec nur Authorized Apple Campus Reseller for tie/nils. Offer void ubere prohibited by law. ©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, tbe Apple logo, Laserifriler, Macintosh and StyleWriter are regisler-xi trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark ofItilemalional Business Machines Corporation, usai under license therefrom.
•V. --------------------...

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Artists to perform in Skibo Ballroom
By LOU BO JARSK3
Special to The Tartan
Ray Manzarek, former 
keyboardist for The Doors, and 
beat poet Mike McClure are to 
create an esoteric fusion of words 
and music this Saturday night in 
the Skibo Ballroom. The two per­
formers are only playing a few 
select places and when asked if 
this was a tour, Ray Manzarek 
replied, “Fuck tours! We’re just 
getting out and playing a few gigs 
cause we enjoy it.... We’re always 
looking for something new.” 
McClure and Manzarek have col­
laborated to “Resurrect the Lion” 
on the new Shanchie Record’s 
release, Love Lion. Others who 
have experienced the duo have 
come away feeling that the piano 
matched with poetry allowed the 
night to flow like a successful jazz 
improvisation. The night should 
prove to be nothing less than cap­
tivating for all who attend. Along 
with music and words, one can 
expect a spiritual trip through 
the minds and inspirations of two
courtesy of Shanachie 
McClure and Manzarek will be performing 
a mix of poetry and music on March 12 in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
revolutionary artists still performing 
new, fresh material today.
I asked, “What’s new?” Manzarek re­
plied, “Well, this earthquake out here. 
Christ, it was like being on stage with 
Morrison, except with the Doors, we 
were in control. With an earthquake, 
you learn exactly what means anything 
to you and see it about to go out the 
window.” And thus began my interview 
with him.
Ray Manzarek has been breaking 
through for almost 30 years now and has 
no plans to stop. Manzarek and McClure 
first met in 1968. McClure was “drink­
ing buddies with Morrison” and was at 
the recording studio while The Doors 
were working.
Before I could really get the interview 
rolling, Manzarek began (as I had hoped 
he would) to take the conversation down 
his own path. “There’s too much drink­
ing in America today, especially on col­
lege campuses,” he said. “I don’t know 
about that,” I said. “Oh yeah. Are you 
telling me you guys don’t drink there at 
Carnegie Mellon? Of course you do.” I 
couldn’t begin to argue with that one. “I 
don’t know what you guys are afraid of. 
Why don’t you just try psychedelics.” “So
do you condone the use of drugs?” I The corporate and military complex rule 
asked. He replied a little sarcastically, the world today. They are the fascists.” 
“Of course not. I can’t. I’m a middle-aged Before I could even jot down what he
man. What would other people think. I just said, he led the conversation some­
where else again. “We should al­
ways search for something new, al­
though new can be a trivial term. 
New is anythingyou don’t know. For 
The Doors, we looked to the past to 
jazz and blues and the art of poetry 
all mixed with improvisation. In the 
same way, if you are not familiar 
with the 1960s today, they would be 
new to you. The same ideals and 
feeling associated with them can still 
be new, as long as new people look to 
them. New is, without a doubt, bet­
ter than old.”
On to the point of the climate in 
the music industry today. “Music 
will get better as soon as the young 
people find a way to confront the 
establishment. That’s what the six­
ties were really all about. That’s 
why I’m glad that we came along when 
we did. The 1960s were completely psy­
chedelic and spiritual.” I asked how he 
felt about the constant labeling and re­
labeling of bands today and he had little 
Please see, POETRY, on page 11
courtesy of Shanachie 
Love Lion, featuring poetry and music.
just wonder why you don’t try them.”
The topic then shifted to the country 
today. “The Fascists are in power.” “So 
you don’t like Clinton?” I asked. “No, I 
like Clinton. I voted for him. Who was I 
going to vote for.... BUSH??? Please!
Art exhibit intrigues
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
I cannot stress enough how wonderful it is to me that there are so 
many magnificent facilities right here on campus. Not to belittle any 
activities available downtown, but most of the time I just haven’t the 
time to venture off campus and take advantage of them. Neverthe­
less, we all need to relax and take time out for ourselves. The Hewlett 
Gallery’s newest exhibit featuring Michael Hachey’s “Roadwork II” 
is a welcome escape for more reasons than you may think. The 
Hewlett Gallery offers a variety of exhibits that enable you to step 
away from everyday life and expose yourself to new art.
With Hachey’s black and white chalk drawings, however, the 
works literally bring new worlds to you. His displays of wide open 
valleys, long winding roads, and the general ambiance of secluded 
settings give the viewer a chance to simply leave everyday life behind 
— even if only for a moment.
Hachey is a master of his craft. Working with black gesso paint and 
backgrounds detailed with streaks of white chalk, he brings forth 
incredible images purely with the manipulation of space, not color. 
The vastness of the scenes in his pictures would almost seem stifled 
if Hachey chose to use colors. Hachey’s works benefit a great deal 
more by simple definitions of objects and leaving the rest to the 
imagination.
My favorite part of the exhibit is the mural prepared by Hachey 
right in the Hewlett Gallery. When you first walk in, it hits you like 
a shot. You come face to face with this hulking four-wheel vehicle 
glaring its headlights straight at you. This vehicle is referred to as 
“Mohawk” and is a recurring theme in most of his works on display. 
It’s almost as though this vehicle is the means of transportation from 
our world to Hachey’s.
The Hewlett Gallery 
will have Michael Hachey’s 
“Roadwork II” on display 
from March 1-26. The gal­
lery is open from 11:30am- 
5pm on weekdays and from 
Roadwork II 1-4 pm on Saturdays,
receives 3 out of four books
ññM
/
Thriller The Getaway escapes description
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Incorporating almost the right 
amount of action, drama, com­
edy, andromanc e,TheGetaway 
makes a quaint little thriller. 
While it lacks the same appeal 
as The Fugitive, The Getaway 
gives you enough chase scenes 
to make you happy. Director 
Roger Donaldson tries to follow 
the success ofhis previous films 
No Way Out and Cocktail with 
this overdone remake of the 
1972 box-office hit by the same 
name, and unfortunately 
doesn’t succeed. I thought that 
a film like No Way Out was 
much more dramatic and had a 
better plot. The Getaway is over- 
dramatic at times and has a 
straightforward, slightly banal 
plot.
Alee Baldwin (The Hunt for 
Red October) stars as Doc, a 
high-stakesthiefheldin aMexi- 
can prison until Kim Basinger, 
who plays his wife Carol, gets 
him out with the aid of a big- 
game crook, played bv James 
Woods (The Hard Way). Now 
free, Doc must: repay Woods by 
working with Kudy (Michael 
Madsen) on one last big rob­
bery. The robbery is accom­
plished :;\vith few problems.
Then, the getaway begins.
There has been a lot of hoopla 
in the media surrounding the sex 
scenes between Basinger and 
Baldwin. While there is some ex­
plicit sex, the action in the .film 
significantly outweighs its sexual 
elements. Doc and Carol have a 
very strained relationship — a 
relationship which tested my pa­
tience throughout the movie. Doc 
and Carol fight, make up, and 
have sex. After an hour of this 
ridiculous cycle of senseless be­
havior, (i.e. fight, make up, then 
have sex,) I could begin to predict 
when Doc and Carol would sud­
denly start stopping and testing 
the powers of the MPAA ratings 
board.
Some people said that this is 
a movie in which Basinger can 
finally“act.” Well, if acting has 
been redefined as taking your 
clothes off, crying, and ¡saying 
% love you” over and over, then 
yes, Basinger can act. But, don’t 
let this deter you. Overall, this 
was an enjoyable film. I just 
wouldn’t want to pay more than 
a matinee price to see it. What 
it lacked in substance was made 
up for in some neat action se­
quences which I don’t think 
can compare to any movie I’ve 
seen before. Sure, they weren’t 
like Raiders of the Lost Ark or 
movies of that caliber, but they 
did make me say, “Cool!”
So, if you are expecting a 
steamy thriller like Basic In­
stinct or Sliver, you’ll most 
likely be disappointed. But, if 
you’re looking for an action film 
to watch over the weekend, 
then this is the right film for 
you. The Getaway is now play­
ing at the Manor Theatre in 
Squirrel Hill.
courtesy of Universa! Pelures
Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger on the road in the steamy new action 
thriller, The Getaway.
The Getaway 
2 out of 4 reels
Proclaimers sing blues roots
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
When I had the opportunity to review an advance 
copy of the Proclaimers latest release Hit the High­
way, my first thought was “I’m Gonna Be (500 
miles)” is really good song so I’m sure this will be 
good too. Wrong! I spent the entire time listening 
to this 12 track, 40-plus-minute tape waiting for 
another catchy tune like “I’m Gonna Be (500 miles)” 
in vain.
Right offhand, I was disappointed by this record­
ing, but I guess I should have expected it. After all, 
I only knew one of their previous songs, and the 
press release accompanying the advance tape kept 
talking about “Classic soul, R&B, and gospel” so 
that’s the type of music I should planned on hear­
ing. What I heard was music that fit perfectly with 
the above description — complete with a re-make 
of Otis Redding’s “These Arms of Mine” and an 
ancient gospel time, “I Want To Be A Christian.”
Although the Proclaimers, composed of twin 
brothers Craig and Charlie Reid from Fife, don’t 
play music that’s my cup of tea, they still have some 
redeeming qualities. First of all, they put a smile 
on my face with their Scottish accents. I can’t help 
but think of that skit from Saturday Night Live 
with the Mike Myers in the Scottish shop saying, 
“If it’s not Scottish, it’s CRAP.” On a more serious 
note, I enjoy the Reid brothers lyrics more than 
their music. They’re very down to earth, covering 
universal topics like marriage and friendship. The 
song “Follow the Money” should be made the na­
tional anthem of all capitalist countries, for it 
emphasizes the Protestant Work Ethic.
The first time I played this tape I was disap­
pointed, but upon subsequent listenings, it began 
to grow on me.
Without repeating the above descriptions, I’d 
have to describe the Proclaimers music from Hit 
the Highway as lighthearted and fairly likable. As 
long as you can get can get over the disappoint­
ment of the lack of a “500 miles” part two, then I 
would definitely recommend it to you. However, 
you going to have play it a couple times before you 
to begin to like it.
Hit the Highway 
receives 3 out of 4 notes
The Diversions Rating System
-fc-k'k'k - Excellent, a must see 
-M'fcik - Very Good, see if possible
- Fairly Poor
- Arfu11 Toxic waste is more entertaining.
Caretaker examines futility
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
Forgetful vagrants, a manic-depressive, a schizo­
phrenic, and a fictictious man “holding papers”: 
these are the characters that populate the world 
of Harold Pinter’s The Caretaker. Starring CMU 
alum Bradley Dean, Pitts­
burgh native Bingo O’Malley, 
and Shakespearan actor Ri­
chard McMillan, this work is 
full of mad stories, lies, and 
misunderstandings all cen­
tered around a decrepit board­
ing house and its tenants.
Aston (McMillan) is a quiet 
man who invites Davies 
(O’Malley) into his flat. Mick 
(Dean), Aston’s brother, soon 
enters and the story unfolds.
McMillan plays the quiet ten­
ant to the hilt, existing in a 
environment of his own fancy until the outside 
world closes in on him. His character is 
disturbed,the performance is strong and Pinter’s 
words flow freely, even through the tears he 
forced during one of the more moving scenes.
Dean portrays a “greaser” interior decorator 
who is sure that the grizzled O’Malley will make 
a wonderful caretaker. His wild mood swings 
range from kind and considerate to raving and 
violent. The work focuses on the tennis match 
between Aston and Mick, using Davies as the
O’Malley and Dean
addled ball.
Once again, The City Theater has created a 
complex and fascinating set. Designed to look like 
a dilapitated old hotel, Aston’s room is filled with 
broken lamps and rusted remains of tools and 
bedframes. Mirroring Aston’s complex mental prob­
lems, the room is a pas­
tiche of conflicting im­
ages and ideas.
The pace is quick and 
the writingis excellent. 
Though strange and 
hard to understand at 
first, the play con­
cludes with all the 
characters returning 
into their old patterns 
as Davies is cast out of 
the house. A discus­
sion of truth and as­
sumptions, The Care­
taker is a disturbing 
inspection of the lives 
of men whose existance 
is based on lies.
The Caretaker will 
be performed at The 
City Theatre until 
March 20. Times are 
The Caretaker 8Pm on Fridays and
receives 3 out of 4 Saturdays. Tickets
masks range from $i 7 — $25..
courtesy of City Theater

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 1994
book revives old characters’ spiritClub Hub
Well, if you eagerly awaited 
John Byrne’s return to “all-ages” 
comic books (although his Next 
Men is by no means shabby), 
then you were probably pretty 
excited when you heard about 
Danger Unlimited. Of course, I 
was excited just because it was 
knottier book by the best writer/ 
1 Artist in comics (Sorry, Todd 
McFarlene, but your ego puts you 
out of the running), and probably
- the first comic creator that I be- 
bame a fan of, but I didn’t even 
•'expect Danger Unlimited to be 
this good.
Of course the art is the typi­
cally perfect Byrne work, so I 
. ..won’t waste your time singing 
; - praises for that. Instead, I’ll con- 
“ • jbentrate on complimenting the
• ; #lot of the book. I’m happy with 
,! Byrne’s work so far on the Leg- 
; "end imprint for Dark Horse Com-
• - tcs, but of course I still hoped he
would go back to work for Marvel
© 1994 Dark Horse Comics 
. One of artist John Bryne’s Marvel- 
. like creations.
and DC. Part of that wish came 
true because Byrne is drawing 
the covers for the April issues of 
DC’s Shadowline books, and I’ve 
heard rumors that he’s, writing
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
one of the Superman Elseworld’s 
annuals. As far as working for 
Marvel, I don’t think that it’s 
necessary anymore, since it seems 
that Byrne is recreating the Mar­
vel Universe on the pages oiDan­
ger Unlimited.
In the first issue I noticed 
“Byrne Versions” of the Thing 
and the Human Torch of the Fan­
tastic Four, Captain America, the 
Red Skull, and Doctor Doom. 
Byrne even admits to the simi­
larities in the letters page. “Oh, 
sure, you’ll find the tone of Dan­
ger Unlimited is very much what 
I set out to create in the time I 
was writing and drawing Fan­
tastic Four for Marvel,” he 
says, but goes on to explain 
that there are differences too. 
Just as Next Men was origi­
nally a new take from the X- 
Men, it evolved into an origi­
nal book. I’m sure the same 
will happen with Danger Un­
limited.
In addition to the similari­
ties that Danger Unlimited 
oiid Next Men share with cer­
tain Marvel comics, there’s yet 
another. Just as there was a 
back-up story, “M4,” in Next 
Men, Danger Unlimited will 
feature the “Torch of Liberty” 
back-up. I’m not sure what the 
connection between “Torch of 
Liberty” and the rest of the 
comic is, other than it takes 
place during World War II and 
Danger Unlimited takes place 
in the future. I hope Byrne 
uses this back-up to lay the 
groundwork for the rest of his 
new universe.
Before offending anyone, I’ll ad­
mit that I’m being somewhat of a 
hypocrite for praising Byrne for 
copying from the Marvel Uni­
verse, while criticizing Jim Lee 
and Marc Silvestri a few weeks 
back for the same thing. Let me 
clear this up. I can tolerate (even 
thoroughly enjoy) this from Byrne 
because, well, he’s John Byrne. 
He revamped Superman and 
made him what he is today. Plus, 
he wrote and illustrated the best 
Fantastic Four aside from those 
of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Do I 
even have to mention his work
©1994 Dark Horse Comics 
Dark Horse’s Danger Unlimited
with Chris Claremont on The Un­
canny X-Men ? In addition, Byrne 
admitted to this borrowing be­
fore anyone had a chance to ac­
cuse him of copying.
If you’re a fan of Byrne, a fan of 
classic superhero stories, or just professional writing major. He
Expomart in Monroeville will hold 
the Pittsburgh Comicon. This is 
the largest show ever to come to 
Pittsburgh. There will be 62,000 
square feet filled with 200 
booths—yes, booths, not those 
tables that were in your high 
school lunch room.
As an added bonus, there will 
also be free promos, parking, and 
autographs. Who’s going to be 
there giving out these 
free autographs? None 
other than the man I 
just praised through­
out this column!
If Byrne isn’t 
enough to make you 
spend $6 to get in (or 
$15 for a three day 
pass), then Dave Sim 
(Friday only), Steven 
Platt, Mike Grell and 
Mike Gold, Scott 
McDaniel, Pitts­
burgh’s own Ron 
Frenz, and CMU’s 
Mike Heisler surely 
will. Twenty-two ad­
ditional guests includ­
ing Mark Pacella, Dan 
Panosian, Lee Weeks, 
and the Cry for Dawn 
publishers Joe 
Linsner and Joe 
Munks will be there 
as well.
For a complete list of the guests 
and what they do, email me at 
ja3q or call the extremely helpful 
people at Tri-State Production/ 
Comic’s World at (814) 467-4116.
Jason Andracki is freshman
comic book fan in general, I 
finally recommend Danger Un­
limited. I can’t wait ten or so 
years down the road to see how 
this Byrne Universe has blos­
somed.
Since I wasn’t around when the 
Marvel Universe was first bom, 
I’ll be able to enjoy the Danger 
Unlimited version thanks to 
Byrne.
I have more great news! On 
April 29, 30, and May 1, the
welcomes any input into his col­
umn.
If you have any comments for 
him, send them to Comic Book 
Chronicles do Diversions, The 
Tartan, Skibo 50 or drop them off 
at our office.
Monday, March 7
Conductant BlundurbussThe Decade
Tuesday, March 8
Underground with the Force Metropol
Dave and ShariNick’s Fat City
John Mayall, the Blues BreakersSpecial guest Dave Alvin and the Guilty ManGrafitti
DerailerThe Decade
Wednesday, March 9
Billy Price BandThe Balcony
The Dick ClarksNick’s Fat City
Driving SouthLuciano’s Coffeehouse
Anson Funderburg and Sam Meyers The Decade
Friday, March 11
FishboneMetropol
Dweezil and Ahmet ZappaRosebud
Nancy Day, Gravity, Electra loves Daddy, Halo EffectGrafitti
Saturday, March 12
Neville Blues with Medicine HeadNick’s Fat City
The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 687-0110 The Decade 223 Atwood St., 682-1211 Graffiti Baum Blvd., 682-8296 Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 261-4512 Nick’s Fat City 1601 East Carson, 481-6880 Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 261-2221 Electric Banana 3887 Bigelow Blvd., 682-4210 Luciano’s Coffeehouse 1023 Forbes Ave., 281-6877 Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 682-8611
By KAREN GRUNBERG
l> K INCI I’ I. !¦: S of S C) L \ I) R K I I R H M Y. X I I \ V K S T I N G
UNFORTUNATELY THIS IS WHERE 
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING 
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.
E
very year, a lot of people make a 
huge mistake on their taxes.They 
don’t take advantage of tax deferral and 
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they 
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can 
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. 
SRAs not only ease your current tax- 
bitc, they offer a remarkably easj' way 
to build retirement income—especially 
for the "extras" that your regular pension 
and Social Security benefits may not 
cover. Because your contributions are 
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less 
taxes now. And since all earnings on 
vour SRA are tax-deferred as well, the
money you don’t send to Washington 
works even harder for you. Down the 
road, that can make a dramatic difference 
in your quality of life.
What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the 
guaranteed security of T1AA to the 
diversified investment accounts ol 
CREF’s variable annuity—all backed 
by the nation's number one retirement 
system.
Why write off the chance for a more 
rewarding retirement? Call today and 
learn more about how TIAA-CREF 
SRAs can help you enjoy many 
happy returns.
Benefit non>fivtn tax deferral. Call our SRA hotline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it!“
ire ihstribuUi1 fry TIAA-CREF WmW/am11 itili I Sl>0-S-I?-17> >.V.r/..iV(VÁ li’riipr,K‘pri'h. Remi I be pniffifttiLt carefully le lore y,inxplele inh'rnuitUm. tni'tuihiijj thtir-je.' ii
Looking for a good exchange rate to 
study abroad next semester?
3.75 GPA and up=$l,500 Scholarship 3.50 GPA and up=$l,000 Scholarship
Study abroad grants based on need also available.
Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites in 
Florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe
Madrid, Spain Strasbourg, France
SU credit ¦ Reid trips/Traveiing seminars ¦ Internships ¦ Study for a semester, year or summer 
Courses taught in English and in host country'language
Resoluti ncaristaSe
iKfKsK-e -0 peRESelRK-el1 nS-ZSl[s ,kS-lH ¦ 119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 ¦ 315-443-3471
Are you a World Class
Developer? tr^jl
CONNECT Inc.
CONNECT is a leader in Wide Area and Local Area Business Information 
Systems. We build and operate a range of email-enabled, distributed enterprise 
information applications. We are a venture funded start up and are looking key 
people to join ouir team.
We need world class developers with strong experience in C and UNIX. 
Familiarity with Windows or Macintosh, or coursework or experience with 
relational database is a plus. People who like systems programming and are 
exceptional at it will probably succeed with us. 
We offer comprehensive benifits as well as equity participation (stock options). 
EOE. Please sign up for an interview with us in the Career Center, or fax your 
resume to us directly at (408) 973-0497. 
Eric Sedlar, Director, Messaging 
System Development 
CONNECT Inc.
10161 Bubb Rd.
Cupertino, CA 95014 
(408) 973-0110 ext 381

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, March 10
Valley Girl
This is a Romeo and Juliet love story of Julie, a 
true “valley girl” from California’s wealthy San 
Fernando valley, and Randy, a fast-moving teen 
from Hollywood Hills. From the time they meet to 
the tale’s tender conclusion, it is a war of cliques, 
with Julie’s proper valley fr.ends trying to reunite 
her with her old flame, and Randy and his ruffians 
crashing the prim valley parties.
Directed by Martha Coolidge and starring Nicho­
las Cage and Deborah Foreman, this modem day 
love story is a refreshing change of pace, even 
though the plot is 200 years old. Released in 1983, 
this film is a send-up of the ‘80s valley culture that 
we all remember far too well. Alas, poor Yorrick, 
gag me with a spoon.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight 
Friday, March 11
Searching For Bobby 
Fischer
This light drama about a young chess prodigy, 
Josh Waitzkin (Max Pomeranc), discusses the role 
parents play in the lives of talented children. Josh 
is a chess master and expert enough to fill the 
shoes of the old prodigy, Bobby Fischer. However, 
the pressure mounts when his father, played by 
Joe Mantegna, begins to push him to the breaking 
point. The tension increases as we see Josh slowly 
lose his innocence.
Searching for Bobby Fischer is a story of stage 
mothers and fathers, overbearinglittle-league par­
ents, and any number of people obsessed with 
their child’s success. Josh escapes losing his child­
hood when his father realizes his mistakes, but 
director Steven Zillian asks what would have 
happened if young Josh, like so many other pres­
sured children, were to lose the best years of his 
life.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight
Saturday, March 12
Nightmare Before Christmas
After 10 years in the mind of Timothy Burton, 
this is a macabre Christmas story. Filled with 
fluid stop-motion animation and wonderfully wild 
characters, this story of Jack Skellington’s raid on 
Christmastown is a weird romp through the twisted 
world of Burton.
An incredible display of three-dimensional ani­
mation, this film is light-years ahead of the old 
stop motion animae like Rudolph the Red Nosed 
Reindeer or Davey and Goliath. It is whimsical fun 
for the whole family.
At 6, 7:30, 9,10:30 pm, and midnight 
Sunday, March 13
Cape Canaveral Monsters
A married couple killed when their Buick hits a 
tree come back to life and carry out acts of sabotage 
against the U.S. Space Program. Their energized 
bodies piece together an intergalactic communica­
tions center from faucets and broken speedom­
eters while trying to keep their arms from falling 
off. Cape Canaveral Monsters also features lots of 
cool NASA footage without the top-secret, highly 
protected plot.
Though not a terribly artistic film, this gem 
comes from the golden age of B-grade films and 
therefore merits a quick look.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight 
By JOHN BIGGS
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 7 March 1994U1
Doors pianist teams with modem poet
POETRY, continued from L9
to say, but he made this point. Quite sarcas­
tically he said, “Well, look at me. I have short, 
kind of spiky hair. I must be new wave. We 
must be punk.”
Commenting on society today, “The fun 
part of our existance is to find your mate and 
actually change the basic laws and princi­
pals of society. First, we should totally elimi­
nate hand guns. Guns for hunting are okay. 
After all, what do the hunters really have left 
to kill? I think you guys are the future of this 
country. Get rid of some things like crack. We 
never did crack! I didn’t even see crack till 
after 1970. Hemp for Victory is the key. We 
need to stop clear cutting our forests and stop 
dumping toxic waste.” Dorethy, Manzarek’s 
wife, added, “We should stop the religious
As my time with Manzarek was running 
out, I felt the need to have his opinions on 
Oliver Stone’s portrayal of himself and The 
Doors. Manzarek had this to offer, “Stone’s 
film wasn’t accurate or spiritual. [Stone] 
wanted a film from the point of a juice head. 
He made Morrison out as nothing more than 
a crazy hysteric. Morrison was a poet and the 
Doors were a band, but you’d almost never 
know that from the film. I read the script and 
said ‘Fuck this! This is terrible! Don’t make 
this film man. This isn’t the Doors, it’s like 
Aerosmith!”
But Stone wanted a film and a story, not 
the Doors, that’s why I wasn’t a part of it.” 
“Did the other guys participating in it cause 
problems?” I asked. “Yeah,” he replied, “but 
we all forgave one another. Besides, anyone 
involved with the film isn’t happy about it
I had time for only one last question, so I 
tried to drag the interview out longer by 
cleverly asking a question that I felt would 
lead us back into interesting conversation. 
“What is the best moment in your life, be it 
musically, artistically, or personally?” 
Manzarek paused, and simply said, “The best 
moment of my life is definitely tomorrow.” 
With that we had our parting formalities and 
I ended my conversation with, in my opinion, 
one the most influential men the realm of 
music over the past twenty-five years.
Manzerek and McClure are appearing at 
CMU on Saturday, March 12 in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Tickets are available at the Infor­
mation Desk. Call 8-2105 for information. 
McClure’s new poetry book, as well as Love 
Lion, will be on sale the night of the show.
C INI (VIA SCOpE
Angie
Geena Davis stars as Angie, a 
bright woman from Brooklyn who 
embarks on journey of self-discov­
ery after she decides to break ties 
with her long-time boyfriend, have 
his baby anyway, and face her 
family’s darkest secrets. (Manor 
Theater; 1:20,3:30,5:30, 7:35,9:45 
pm daily)
Blue
A tale of a widow’s path of self 
discovery after both her husband 
and young daughter were killed in 
an automobile accident. Nominated 
for nine Cesars, or French 
Oscars. ( Beehive; 5:30, 7:30 pm 
Monday through Thursday)
Greedy
Kurt Douglas and Michael J. Fox 
star in this comedy about an aging 
patriarch and his greedy heirs who 
are jealous of his young girlfriend. 
(Manor Theater; 1:15, 3:20, 5:40, 
7:45, 9:50 pm daily)
In the Name of the Father
Daniel Day Lewis and Emma 
Thompson star in this film about a 
British man who is sentenced to life 
imprisonment for confessing to a 
crime he did not commit to save his 
father. (Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 
7:30,9:55pm daily, 4:30 pm Friday 
through Sunday, 1:30 pm Saturday 
and Sunday)
Over on the Big Ranch
A Mexican film about the friend 
ship between two orphans and a 
wealthy landowner. This movie 
combines the elements of both 
westerns and musicals. (Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theater; 8 pm 
Saturday)
The Piano
CMU alum Holly Hunter stars 
in the story of a Victorian woman 
who moves to the wilds of New 
Zealand, where she explores her 
relationships with her husband 
(Sam Neil) and her lover (Harvey 
Keitel). (Manor Theater; 3:10, 
9:40 pm daily)
Carver’s short stories, Short Cutsis 
an epic about nine characters trying 
to make sense of their lives in
Reality Bites
courtesy of Hollywood Pictures 
Geena Davis stars as Angie, now 
playing at the Manor Theater.
Wynona Ryder and Ethan Hawke 
star in a romantic comedy about a 
couple in the 90s. (Beehive; 9:45 
pm, midnight Monday through 
Thursday)
Schindler's List
Steven Spielberg directs this his­
toric film about the life of German 
businessman Oskar Schindler and 
how he saved the lives of thousands 
of Jewish people from the World 
War II Holocaust. (Manor Theater; 
12:30,4:15, 8 pm daily)
Short Cuts
America in the ’90s. Andie 
MacDowell, Matthew Modine, Lily 
Tomlin, and Jack Lemmon star. (Play­
house; 7pm Monday through Sat­
urday)
Six Degrees of Separation
Starring Stockard Channing, Will 
Smith, and Donald Sutherland, Six 
Degrees oFSeparation takes a timely, 
evocative look at the vast differ­
ences and surprising similarités be­
tween society's “haves" and “have 
nots.” (Manor Theater; 1:10, 5:20, 
7:30 pm daily)
Snapper
Loosely based on Raymond An Irish comedy by Stephen
Frears about a family living in 
present-day Dublin who must deal 
with their eldest daughter’s preg­
nancy and her refusal to identify the 
baby’s father. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton; 8pm Monday through Thurs­
day)
Sugar Hill
Wesley Snipes stars in this gritty 
drama about a young drug dealer 
and his desired escape from the 
seedy world his brother and father 
have created for him. (Squirell Hill 
Cinema World; 7:15,9:35 pm daily, 
4:15 pm Friday through Sunday, 
1:45 pm Saturday and Sunday)
What's Eating Gilbert Grape?
Based on Peter Hedges novel 
by the same name, this drama/com­
edy blend focuses on the less than 
ordinary life of Gilbert Grape and his 
family on their homestead in Endora, 
Iowa. (Squirell Hill Cinema World; 
7:45, 10 pm daily, 5:30 pm Friday 
through Sunday, 1, 3:15 pm Satur­
day and Sunday)
Theater locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave.
687-WHAT
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown
471-9700
The Manor Theater:
1729 Murray Ave. 422-7729 
Pittsburgh Playhouse:
222 Craft Ave. 621-6601 
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. 421-7900 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater:
4400 Forbes Ave. 622-3212
By TARA ZANE
DietAid 3000
AS SEEN ON T.V. *SPRAY AWAY THE POUNDS
DietAid 3000 is the only breath spray which acts as an appetite 
suppressant, relieving hunger pangs and the mental desire to eat. 
This spray has a pleasant peppermint flavor.
• 100% NATURAL
• Use With Current Diet. • No Calories Per Serving
• Vitamin C • Easy To Use
• Convenient • Discreet
**ORDER TODAY**
Money Back Guarantee! Please allow 2-4 weeks for delivery 
ONLY $19.95 FOR A 3 MONTH SUPPLY 
includes shipping & handling). Send cash, check or money order to: 
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS 
3330 HILCROFT, STE. D-411 
HOUSTON, TX 77057
3*
7
i
INDIVIDUAL,
¥
. otG
¦ *
. THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment 
to discuss your birth control options.
Downtown
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
PLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Please Note: Open to all inter­
ested students. Your attendance 
at the Information Meeting is a 
prerequisite to your interviewing 
process. Please attend. Refresh­
ments provided! Casual attire.
INFORMATION MEETING: 
Date: March 10, 1994 
Check with Placement Office 
for Time & Place
INTERVIEWING:
Date: March 11,1994
An Equal Opportunity Employer
ENGINEERING 
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
GEOSCIENCE 
APPLIED SCIENCE
Individual initiative has always 
played a major role in Schlumberger’s 
growth and technological leadership. 
Today, Schlumberger employs 
53,000 people in 75 countries 
with annual revenues approaching 
$7 billion.
Schlumberger is comprised of two 
main business groups: oilfield 
services, which offers a complete 
range of energy exploration and 
recovery services; and Measure­
ment and Systems which produces 
everything from utility meters to 
automatic test equipment.
The Schlumberger Companies 
value individual initiative.
If you'd rather lead than follow, 
and enjoy the recognition that goes 
along with taking responsibility for 
the work you direct, contact us 
today. We'll give you the support, 
training and opportunity you need 
to meet the challenge.
Schlumberger
Founded On Innovation. 
Expanded Through Technology. 
Worldwide.

---------------------------------------------------

¦¦mrrnimiwiMU'i
ART
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents 
“Hard Choices III,” an exhibition of works by 
Pennsylvania Council ofthe Arts through April 9. 
Among others, the works ofCMU professor Charlee 
Brodsky will be shown. For more information and 
gallery hourd, call Rob at 471-6070.
Mikko Kiijavainen and Daniel Anthonisen
have works on display at the Forbes Gallery 
through March 13. Call 268-2081 for gallery hours 
or information.
Michael Hachey’s display Roadwork II, an
installation of monumentally scaled chalk draw­
ings, will be on display at the Hewlett Gallery 
until March 26. Call Petra Fallaux at X8-3877 for 
more information and gallery hours.
The Celtic Society is sponsoring Celtic Art: 
Its Mystical Symbolism, a discussion led by Jess 
McFeater, artist and proprietor of Destiny Stu­
dios at 8 pm on Thursday in Porter Hall A21.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts has an­
nounced its March classes: Polyester Plastic 
Jewelry and Beads, Making Jewelry with the 
New Clay, and Knitting Workshop. Call Jenny 
Becker to register or for more information at 361- 
0455.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers will present Blue, a
film about the liberty of life itself at the Oakland 
Beehive through March 17. Call John Fedele for 
more information at 681-5449.
FILMS
Valley Girl will be playing at DH 2210 this 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Searching for Bobby Fischer will play in DH 
2210 Friday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Nightmare Before Christmas plays in DH 2210
this Saturday at 6, 7:30, 9,10:30 pm, and 12:30 
am.
Cape Canaveral Monsters will be shown in DH 
2210 on Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
MEETINGS
Roadwork II, an Installation by Michael Hachey, will be on display at the Hewlett Galllery. Michael seeks to 
manipulate the space by a process of white marks on black surfaces analogous to sculpting light.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for­
eign language skills at the international lan­
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modem Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee­
house except the Russian Language table, which 
is held in the Faculty Dining Room. Times are as 
follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and La Table 
Française at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa 
Española at 11:30 am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo 
Lunch o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Salzarulo Squadron of the Arnold Air 
Society will be sponsoring a clothing drive dur­
ing the month of March. Boxes for donations are 
located in Donner, Morewood, Skibo, and the Air 
Force ROTC detachment on the ground floor of 
Hamburg Hall. Contact Steve for more informa­
tion at x2-2028.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group 
holds workshop meetings every Monday at 7 pm 
at the Friends Meeting House. For more informa­
tion, call Bill King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings on Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. 
For more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take 
place Sunday nights from 7-9 pm in the Bellefield
Building at University of Pittsburgh. Call 363- 
8686 for more information.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and 
Sundays at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more 
information, email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium provides a 
forum for students inquiring into the meaning 
and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, 
room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The Women’s Center Collective holds meet­
ings every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center. If your group is interested in holding a 
meeting in the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Join the Whiskey Rebel­
lion Toastmasters Club every first and third 
Wednesday of the month at the Carnegie Library 
at 7 pm. For more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) in 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call 683-7770 
for more information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop meets ev­
ery Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor confer­
ence room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. For 
more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are free and held in room 205 
of the Wightman Community Center Building. 
For information, phone 261-5363.
Rosary are offered 30 minutes prior to all Masses. 
Call 766-0950 for more information.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal and Lutheran Campuses, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at
7 pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
New Hope Christian Community Church
holds services on Sundays at 11 am in the Central 
Christian Church, located at 134 North Dithridge. 
For more information, call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sunday’s 
organist will be Joyce Moon Strobel of St. Stephen 
Lutheran Church, Moon Township. For more in­
formation, call 682-6886.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11:00 am in the 
chapel, located on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland.
The Lutheran University Center invites you 
to join in an Episcopal Lutheran Shared Eucha­
rist on Sundays at 5 pm at the Heinz Chapel. Call
682-6886 for more information.
The Student Environmental Action Coali­
tion meets Sundays at 4:30 at the Pennsylvania 
Environmental Resource Center at the comer of 
Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC is composed 
of activists and organizers who fight for greater 
awareness of the current state of the environment 
and for preservation of our delicately balanced 
ecosystem. Call 681-8300 for more information.
If you need to walk across campus late at 
night, call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am 
seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8-2733). For 
information, contact Ray Tseng at x2-3068.
Welsh language classes, sponsored by the 
Celtic Society, are held in Porter Hall A19A on 
Wednesdays; beginners are at 7:15 pm and ad­
vanced beginners at 8:30 pm. Call 521-6722 to 
enroll.
Women in Science meets every Wednesday from 
6:30-7:30 pm in the Women’s Center. Contact 
Tara at x8-8010 or thin with questions.
The Ptero dactyl Speedway holds student read­
ings in Scotland Yard every other Thursday 
evening at 7 pm. Come out and support the local 
writing community. Students interested in read­
ing should contact mk57 or tu05. Bryan Lasley, 
Micki Kochanskyj, Marty Riker, and Sreyas 
Srinivasan will read this Thursday.
Compline, Prayer at the Close of the Day is
sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
The River City Brass Band will perform “This 
Green and Pleasant Land” on Saturday at Carn­
egie Music Hall.
WRCT Winterblast, with national touring bands 
God Is my Co-Pilot, Guided by Voices, Trumans 
Water, and Swob, will be at the Tilted Square 
Coffeehouse this Friday at 7:30 pm. Tickets are 
$6. Call x8-6975 for more information.
NOTICES
An Eating Disorders Informational Group
has been organized at the Counseling and Devel­
opment Center. Call x8-2922 for details.
The First Annual College Bowl Tournament
will be held Saturday in the Adamson Wing and 
Baker Hall rooms 235A and B. Tournament sched­
ules can be found at the Skibo Info Desk. .
The SPIRIT Fashion Show: Saxy, Horny 
Fashions, A Jazz Experience, will be held Sun­
day in the Skibo Ballroom at 3 pm. Tickets are 
avilable at the Skibo Info Desk for $3, or at the 
door for $4. For more information, call Yindra at
683-3557.
SPORTS
The indoor track teams will compete this week­
end in the NCAA Championships at the Univer­
sity of Wisconsin-Oshkosh.
RELIGIONTHEATER
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
daily Mass at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, Monday 
through Friday. For more information, call the 
Newman Oratory Center at 681-3181.
St. Agnes Church offers the Traditional Latin 
Mass Sundays at 8:30 am (Low) and 11 am (High), 
first Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and first 
Saturdays at 9 am. Confession and the Holy
Harold Pinter’s modern classic The Care­
taker, starring Bingo O'Malley, will be performed 
at the City Theater this month. Call Sara Durkacs 
at the box office, 431-CITY, for more information 
and tickets.
Plying Pig Theater is pleased to announce the 
addition of new faces to its improvisational com­
pany, Reality Optional. The group will perform at 
the Artery in Shady side on March 19 at 8 pm.
To the cute brown-haired gold-framed 
guy wearing a maroon winter coat in 
the E&S library March 1,1994: I only 
wanted to say hi!
The Stare
Aidan, Bob, Jess, Laura, Mike 
Thank you all. I could not have gotten 
it without you.
Karen
Thank you for all your patience. I 
don’t knowwhatl would’ve done with­
out you.
Seni Seviyorum.
-K
Chad W,
You are a hunka-hunka hot love
Jess,
Thank you for being so patient. 
Karenika
Basketball Ronnie—
You are the best slam dunker 
Jump through my hoops hot stuff
Jason S from Ohio,
Next time you’re at Rodeo, lasso me in 
babe!
Kevin B,
I’ve been in love with you since fresh­
man year,
please go out with me,
Love, the petite girl in your manage­
ment game class
Liz K in Theta is one hot mama!
Raj V—
You can pee on my sheets anytime! 
Steph Z,
Because you are Greek 
I want to squeeze your butt cheeks
JD from Pi Kappa Alpha,
Meet me at the Holiday Friday night
Theta Xi Chris E,
Grow it back!
The mustache makes the man
Quote of the Week:
"I want you now 
Tomorrow won’t do 
There’s a yearning inside 
and it’s burning through"
—Tri-Delt Karen
Marisa F,
You are the sunshine of my life 
The 69er strikes back!.
Gavin R,
¦ur jeans have such a tight fit.
Helen N,
% the stair climber to the hilt 
s your legs really built!
I want you to photocopy my butt on 
Gray Laid paper
Navy. Boy Rob S,
Doesn’t that blue sweatshirt 
you wear every day get crusty?
DGEUe,
Even though you are moody
I would love you more if you weren't 
always trying to break my kneecaps.
Matt N who plays football—
You are the best looking dude 
on the CMU campus
DTD Pete has a perpetual wedgie
Theta Joanna—
When I saw your pretty face today,
I felt like walking on a White Cloud
HOIT,
Why don’t you get a real job? 
and quit leeching off of CMU, loser.
LC—
Have you seen any flying liquor botth 
lately that I can ride? Let me know. 
Mr. WKRP (from Cincinatti)
To that special
KDR
engagement
lm-
copulate with me?
-sm
Happy Birthday, Marty!
