Unique 
Ethiopian 
Student— 
See Page 2
IM Basketball 
In Final 
Week's Play— 
See Page 6
Kappa Sigma, Kappas Win Sing
DG, DU Take Second Place, 
Chi 0 And ATO Finish Third
During intermission at the annual Greek Swing dance held at the Syria Mosque 
last Saturday night, the winners of the 1956 Greek Sing competition were announced.
Kappa Kappa Gamma and Kappa Sigma took the first places, with Delta Gamma and 
Chi Omega following closely in the sorority competition. Placing second and third among 
the fraternities were Delta^ -
Upsilon and Alpha Tau 
Omega.
The Kappas, who sang 
“Wind from the Sea” and 
“Story of a Tack” at the Fri­
day even^ found themselves in 
first place for the fifth consecutive 
year. It was the second win for 
their director Jan Jerles, a junior 
home ec major.
Kappa Sigma, led by Marlyn 
Jakub, won first over the frater­
nities with a spirited rendition of 
“Seeing Nellie Home” and “May 
Now Thy Spirit.’ Last year the 
Kappa Sigs placed third.
“In These Delightful Pleasant 
Groves” and “Madame Jeanette” 
won second place among the so­
rorities for the DG’s, well direct­
ed by Anne Elder, a junior music 
student. Lou Herbst led the Chi 
O’s to third place With “The Kerry 
Dancers” and “In Silent Night.”
Placing second among the fra­
ternities was Delta Upsilon sing­
ing “John Peel,” which brought 
them first in 1952, and “I’m A 
Wandrin’.” Alpha Tau Omega 
came in third with “Po’ Ol’ 
Laz’rus” and John Kestner’s own 
a r r a n gement of “Shenandoah.” 
Three of the fraternities, Phi Kap­
pa, Beta Theta Pi, and Sigma Al­
pha Epsilon, tied for fourth place.
The judges for the 1956 Greek 
Sing were Mrs. Virginia Lowe, 
choral director of Taylor Alderdice, 
Mr. John Lively, Choral director at 
the Sixth United Presbyterian 
Church and also director of the 
Downtown Chorale, and Mr. Don­
ald Wilkins, director of the Bach 
Choir and the Duquesne Choir.
Bill MacDonald and Eileen Lan- 
day, co-chairmen of the week-end 
affair, gave out the awards at the 
dance during a break in Tommy 
Carlyn’s smooth dance music. 
Susie Groves, Bob Larson, and 
Tom Reily directed fraternity and 
sorority pledges in putting up the 
decorations the three had de­
signed.
Tech Students 
Win Rust Awards
For the ninth consecutive year, 
Rust Architectural Awards were 
presented to three students at Car­
negie Institute of Technology.
The 1956 winners today received 
cash prizes from the Rust Engi­
neering Company for their out­
standing designs of a book pub­
lishing plant. The awards were 
presented at a Duquesne Club 
luncheon in their honor. All were 
sub-seniors in the department of 
architecture.
First pnze of $100 for the most 
original design and excellent pre­
sentation went to David W. Scott 
of Berea, Ohio. Last year’s top 
winner, Theodore Monacelli was 
also a resident of Ohio. Second 
prize of $50 was awarded to James 
T. Knox, Squirrel Hill, Pittsburgh, 
and the $25 third prize winner 
was Richard L. Fudge.
Greek Sing Winners
Kappa Kappa Gamma, above, and Kappa Sigma, below, are 
shown in the midst of the festivities of the 1956 Sing competition 
last Friday night at Carnegie Music Hall.
Pittsburgh Panhell 
Awards Open To 
Sorority Women
The City Panhellenic Association 
of Pittsburgh will again have sev­
eral scholarships, in the amount of 
$100 each, available for the aca­
demic year 1956-57. Applicants 
must be a member, in good stand­
ing, of an active National Sorority, 
a sophomore or junior at the time 
of application, and a resident of 
the Pittsburgh area.
Scholarships are awarded to un­
dergraduates on several bases, in­
cluding contribution to her soror­
ity in the form of active partici­
pation in chapter life and respon­
sibilities, contribution to her col­
lege or university as evidenced by 
participation in campus activities, 
and membership in honorary 
groups, a quality point average of 
3.00 for her entire college career 
to date, and financial need.
Personal interviews with the 
Scholarship Committee of Pitts­
burgh Panhellenic Association will 
be necessary. Arrangements will 
be made to meet with students 
after applications have been re­
ceived. Applications are available 
at the Dean of Women’s Office or 
will be mailed to you on request 
by the scholarship chairman. They 
are due by March 20, 1956.
Antony
There will be an early cur­
tain for “Antony and Cleo­
patra” to compensate for the 
unusual length of the produc­
tion. Evenings—8:00 p.m. Mat­
inees—2:15 p.m.
Tech’s Rifle Team 
Scores Over Pitt
Having defeated the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, Tech’s Rifle 
Team took over undisputed first 
place in the Greater Pittsburgh 
Rifle League. The 1393-1371 vic­
tory was Tech’s second defeat of 
Pitt’s Rifle Team this season. 
Along with eight other wins and 
losses of one match apiece to Du­
quesne and West Virginia, these 
victories have gained the top berth 
for Tech. One match remains to be 
fired against W & J on March 9 
in Washington. WVU, top con­
tender for the league has two 
matches with Duquesne, the third 
place team. Final league st«. ndings 
rest on these three important 
matches.
Good Championship Chances
By defeating W & J, their last 
opponents, Tech’s team would 
have an invincible hold on the top 
[Continued on page 6]
Directors In Ecstasy
Trophy claiming Greek Sing leaders are: back row, Lou Herbst, 
Chi O; Anne Elder, DG; and Jan Jerles, KKG. Front row, Hugh 
Young, DU; Marlyn Jakub, KS; and John Kestner, ATO.
Sorority Pledges Get 
Dinks As Rush Ends
At the end of three long and hectic weeks, during which fresh­
men and sorority girls became more and more haggard and pro­
fessors more and more exasperated at late assignments, the Tech 
sororities came out triumphant with 68 pledges.
* The fourth year that freshmen 
have been eligible for second se­
mester rushing and the third yeaiThistle
Anyone desiring to order a 
1956 Thistle may do so by 
sending $5.00 to the Subscrip­
tion Manager, Box 259, Intra- 
school Mail. If a senior, please 
indicate an address to which 
your book may be sent.
Y Plans Summer 
Work Projects 
For Tech Students
For the summer of 1956 the 
YMCA and YWCA will sponsor 
several types of student projects. 
The purpose of these projects is 
for students to learn to work, 
study, and share together the 
principles of community life. 
They are not jobs in the sense 
that one earns a good deal of 
money; however, each student 
usually earns enough to pay for 
his room and board during the 
summer.
There seem to be three basic 
classifications into which these 
projects fall. They are: students 
in industry, leadership seminars, 
and service projects. The pro­
jects are located all over the 
country and students from any 
section may work in any one of 
them.
June 15 to August 31
Students in industry projects 
are similar in form to the one in 
The Twin Cities. There the work­
ers hold regular jobs in factories 
and businesses, gaining experi­
ence of major social and economic 
problems. The program also pro­
vides for seminars in which the 
relevance of the Christian faith 
to economic life is examined. 
These projects will be held ap­
proximately June 15 to August 31.
In the college summer service 
group in New York City students 
[Continued on page 2]
that rushing nas been only three 
weeks instead of four, this rush 
season like those preceding ha 
brought much criticism i:om al 
quarters, especially fraternitie. 
who have only a week at the be­
ginning of the year to rush their 
first pledge class.
The eligible freshman women, 
those with a 2.00 factor or above, 
are invited to a Panhellenic open 
house at the beginning of the se­
mester to meet the seven sorori­
ties. Each sorority then gives one 
tea and one party for their rushee 
with lunchepn, dinner and Skib 
dates in-between. Listed below arc 
the seven sororities and their 
pledges:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Janice Klein, 
Nancy Parlette, Lu Fields, Hildf 
Feldman, Nicki Horvitz, Sand 
Ruben, Loretta Steinberg, Arlene 
Becker, Linda Flato, Betty Krogh.
Chi Omega: Mary Jo Hill, Joar 
Seidel, Nancy Edgar, Ruth Vysoky 
Peggy Simmons, Connie Colaizzo, 
Kreale Dulany, Eleanor Manley, 
Gail Geiger, Sue Winn, Barban 
Yohe, Peggy Coyne, Judith Wells.
Delta Delta Delta: Nora Huhn 
Marian Doepken, Janet Felmet^, 
Mary Jane Stevens, Chris Gen- 
genbach, Lee Rankin, Ann. Gil- 
crist, Ann Forest, Joan Litchfield 
Betsy Badger, Nancie Redpath.
Delta Gamma: Darlene Pyle, 
Sally Ambrose, Marian Chleboski. 
Valerie Armitage, Peggy Lingle 
Cathy Engle, Carol Sooby.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Gail Gar­
vin, Marilyn Carson, Mary Ann 
Gartner, Sally Shwerzler, Sally 
Lindsay, Martha Minteer, Becky 
Conrad, Jan McGregor.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Judy 
Wahl, Nancy McCarthy, Judy 
Thomas, Barb Krack, Lex Baker, 
Sherry Ahlers, Jo Todes, Ann 
Howard, Cissie Rafferty, Betty Er­
win. Denise Getsie. Peverlee Sal­
vatore, Jane Pickard, Rita Menke.
Sigma Kappa: Pat Sprow.
VOL. 49—No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MARCH 6, 1956

---------------------------------------------------

/
p*£i 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March «, 195«
Tech’s Haile Workneh Hopes 
To Help Ethiopian Industry
A vital part of Ethiopian aspirations toward economic and in­
dustrial development centers in a civil engineering laboratory on 
the Carnegie Tech campus in Pittsburgh.
There, midst a complex of pipelines, Haile Georgis Workneh 
of Addis Abeba is discovering theO-
intricacies of hydraulic transpor­
tation, a study aimed at helping 
his Emperor Haile Selassi find an 
efficient method of moving the rich 
deposits of raw material in Ethi­
opia’s rugged terrain to places 
where they can be exported or 
utilized in building national in­
dustries.
When Haile finishes his study 
this year, he will be the only Ethi­
opian to hold a doctor’s degree in 
civil engineering. This educational 
attainment will enable him to ful­
fill a second and perhaps even 
more important role in Ethiopia’s 
future.
Ethiopian Institute
Haile hopes to accelerate the 
pace of development by ex­
panding the nation’s embryo 3- 
year engineering college into a 
four-year degree granting insti­
tution. At present, the school must 
send students abroad for their
Haile Workneh
Pioneer For Ethiopia
AC SPARK PLUG
The Electronic Division 
of General Motors Corporation 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Plant
WILL BE ON CAMPUS
MARCH 9
to interview
E.E.’S
M.E.’S.
MATHEMATICIANS
PHYSICISTS
For challenging work in research design, design, development 
and field engineering programs in airborne electronics.
Coat act Placement Office tor Interviews
final year because the faculty does 
not feel qualified to grant the pro­
fessional stamp of a degree to 
their students. Holding a doctor­
ate from Carnegie Tech, Haile 
Workneh will be able to train an 
ever increasing number of civil 
engineers completely on the home 
soil.
Haile was sent here eight years 
ago by his emperor, who is also 
Ethiopian Minister of Education, 
to attain technical proficiency and 
bring it back home. But he did so 
well as an undergraduate that he 
was recommended for further 
study.
Mountainous Problem
He chose to concentrate his work 
for both the masters and doctorate 
in a particular field which would 
be of most value to Ethiopia. The 
root of his homeland problems lay 
in isolation imposed by the sharp- 
rising mountains which close off 
one part of the nation from an­
other. As in other countries broken 
up by huge ranges of mountain, 
the economy is based on agricul­
ture and herding.
But locked in the Ethiopian 
ranges are coal, iron ore, copper, 
oil, platinum. If freed, these ma- 
could make the country 
prosper, and the problem is not in 
mining, but in transportation. The 
present rail system extends a total 
of 500 miles and bypasses these 
highlands. More railroads could 
be built, but the expense is almost 
prohibitive.
Highways appear more feasible 
since trucks can climb steeper 
[Continued on page 8]
Pictures
Attention all sorority wom­
en, please return your Thistle 
picture proofs to Gimbels im­
mediately.
Tech Night
On Friday nights a group of 
students from Tech, Pitt, Chatham, 
and several nursing schools meet 
at Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bald­
win’s home (4220 Centre Ave­
nue) for an evening of food, fun, 
fellowship, and worship. The 
group, Inter - Varsity Christian 
Fellowship of Pittsburgh, is an 
organization of various Christian 
fellowship and study groups.
This Friday night, March 9, is 
Tech night. Tech Christian Fel­
lowship will handle the program— 
and supply the refreshments. The 
speaker for the evening, Mr. 
Charles Hummel, regional secre­
tary of the Middle Atlantic region 
of Inter-Varsity Christian Fellow­
ship, should be of special interest 
to Tech students. Mr. Hummel, a 
member of Tau Beta Pi, the engi­
neering honorary, while following 
undergraduate studies in chemical 
engineering at Yale, took his mas­
ter’s- degree in the same subject 
at M.I.T.
Anyone wishing to attend this 
meeting should call Glenn Hen- 
ricksen, MU 2-9274 or Tom Hol­
loway, MU 2-9211. Cars will be 
leaving for supper at 5:30 from 
Donner Hall and at 7:45 from 
Morewood.
YMCA
[Continued Jrom page 1J
work full time in outstanding so­
cial service agencies in the city 
Some work for room and board; 
others are paid salaries of $125 - 
$200 per month. The program 
here includes seminars on pro­
blems of city life, and a chance 
to consider vocational abilities.
The third basic program is 
exemplified in the leadership 
seminars held at Martha’s Vine­
yard. Ten weeks are spent work­
ing in a resort community. The 
regular seminar ^sessions probe 
the concerns and responsibilities 
of campus Christian leadership 
Students earn $200-$400 in addi­
tion to room and board.
In addition to these three basic 
type^ there is an international 
seminary held in London, Paris, 
Geneva, Rome and Berlin.
There are many other projects 
sponsored by the Y’s all over 
the country. For additional in­
formation contact Miss Ruth 
Shinn at the Union.
Plaques
All new members of Tau 
Beta Pi who haven’t received 
plaques should see Ted Hatch, 
and all new members of Pi 
Delta Epsilon who have not 
received keys and plaques 
should see Marjo King.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS AND METALLURGISTS
Hamilton Standard Division 
United Aircraft Corporation
Designers and Manufacturers of
JET AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
AND PROPELLERS
• JET FUEL CONTROLS
(Electronic ft Hydro- M ecttankol)
INTERVIEWS
Tuesday, 
March 13
J. Paul Sbeedy* Had A Hangdog Look TiH 
WiWroot Cream-Oil Cave Him Confidence
P««r oM M*n«y Mieady wm hounded by a hick of confidence! Every girl 
1m talked to told him he wit barking up the wrong tree. "Fido’nt get a 
d*tc pretty tooa,” be howled, "I’m gonna flea the campus and go home 
to mutter." Then he got wiae to Wildrooc Cream-Oil.
Now he ha* confidence in muj situation because 
1m nose bit hair looks healthy and handsome, the way 
Nature intended . .. neat but not greasy. Contains tbe 
b**+t of Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair 
sad scalp conditioner. Get youxself a bottle or tube of 
Wddroot Cream-Oil, America's biggest selling hair took.
It gives you the confidence you need to be a gay dog.
? «/ Ì 31 Sé. Harris Hi li Rd., WilliamivMt, N. Y.
Wildrnol Company, lac., Buffai« 11, N. Y.
Wlldroot Cream-Oil
gives you confidence I
eoe ysur H*«** 
dayev
The Datei
The Timet Tuesday, March 13
The Place: See Your Placement Officer
C. E. WangemanHAMILTON STANDARD DIVISION 
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Windsor Locks, Connecticut
# JET TURBINE STARTERS
(Pneumatic A Combustion)
• HYDRAULIC PUMPS
(Variable Displacement)
PROPELLERS
(for Turbine &
Piston Engines)
• CONTROLS & ACCESSORIES 
FOR NUCLEAR ENGINES
AIR CONDITIONING 
SYSTEMS
(Air Cycle ft Vapor)
Engineering Staff Continuously Exponded lor tbo 
Post SO Ysers — ond Still Growing.
targost Now Jet Aireraft fquipmoat Development 
P pogrom I« Our History.
loeat Oraduoto Study Program «Mh R.PX Available —

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 6, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
BULLETIN BOARD
Dri
XIEE-XSME .
Featured at the next ASME- 
AIEE joint meeting is Mr. Cullen 
T. Pearce, who will speak on 
“What the engineer does in the 
electrical manufacturing indus­
try.” This topic should be of in­
terest to mechanical as well as 
electrical engineers. The speaker 
works in the Westinghouse plant 
at Philadelphia. Mr. Pearce is the 
AIEE vice-president for the dis­
trict covering West Virginia, 
Maryland, New Jersey, and Dela­
ware, so part of his talk will be 
devoted to the professional socie­
ties.
The meeting begins at 8:00 p.m. 
in Room 100, Porter Hall, on Wed­
nesday, March 7. After the meet­
ing there will be a big blast in a 
local fraternity house at whieh 
time there will be barrels of free 
refreshments.
OnC&nposwithMàxôhujman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” etc.)
THE GRIM AND GRISLY ADVENTURES OF 
NORBERT SIGAFOOS, AMERICAN
If you squeam, read no further, for today’s column is not for the squeamish.
It is a harrowing story which begins in 1946 when Norbert 
Sigafoos, an ichthyology major from UCLA, went on a field trip 
with his class to Monterey Bay to study the many fish and 
crustaceans who make their homes in these waters.
But truth to tell, Norbert was not very interested in ichthyol­
ogy. What he was interested in was television, which in 1946 
was an exciting new infant industry. While his classmates 
leaned over the rail of the boat, studying the tunny and amber- 
jack which swarmed below, Norbert just leaned and thought 
about television. Thus preoccupied, he fell overboard and, all 
unnoticed, was washed far out to sea.
A strong swimmer, Norbert, after 43 days, sighted land—a 
tiny atoll, far away from the normal sea lanes. Tired but happy, 
he clambered ashore. Being a college man, he was, of course, 
fearless, resourceful, and clean in mind, body, and spirit. He 
built himself a snug shelter, fashioned traps for animals, wove 
fishing lines, and arranged day and night signals to attract any passing ships.
‘He^/i6e4 day ttiékt MYP<&*lîI6
Though nine years went by, Norbert never abandoned hope 
of being rescued. At long last, his patience was rewarded. On 
October 14, 1955, he was picked up by the Portuguese tanker, 
Molly O’Day. '
Ralph Gomez, the ship’s captain, greeted Norbert with a 
torrent of Portuguese. "Do you speak English?” Norbert asked.
“A little,” said Ralph Gomez, which was no less than the 
truth. He did speak a little English: two words. They were “a” 
and “little.”
But, withal, he was a good hearted man, and he gave Norbert 
fresh clothes, a razor, and a cheroot.
“No, thank you,” said Norbert to the cigar. “I’m a Philip 
Morris man myself. Have you ever smoked Philip Morris?”
“A little,” said Ralph Gomez.
“Then you know what I mean when I talk about their yummy 
goodness, their delicately reared tobaccos, their soothing, con­
soling, uplifting, unfailing gentleness—pack after pack after 
pack,” said Norbert.
“A little,” said Ralph Gomez.
“I suppose you’re wondering,” said Norbert, “how I kept my 
sanity during all those years on the island.”
“A little,” said Ralph Gomez.
“Well, I’ll tell you,” said Norbert. “I’ve been thinking about 
television because that’s what I want to go into when I get back. 
For nine years I’ve been sitting on that island thinking up 
brand new shows for television. And I've got some marvelous 
new ideas! I’ve got one terrific idea for a show where a panel 
of experts tries to guess people's occupations. ‘What’s My Line?’ 
I call it. Then I've got one, a real doozy, where you pull some­
body unexpectedly out of the studio audience and do his whole 
life story. ‘This Is Your Life,’ I call it. But that’s not all! I 
thought up a real gut-buster of an idea for a quiz show where 
you give away not $64, not $6400, but—get this, Ralph Gomez— 
$64,000! Wow, I can hardly wait to get back to the States and 
sell these fabulous ideas to the networks!”
There is, fortunately, a happy ending to this chilling tale. Nor­
bert never had to suffer the bitter disappointment of learning 
that all his ideas had long since been thought of by other people. 
Why not? Because the Portuguese tanker, MoUy O'Day, struck 
a reef the day after picking up Norbert and, I am gratified to 
report, went down with all hands. ©M*x Sh"lm,n'1,54
if the »battering »lory of Norbert Sigafoo» ha» left you limp, com­
fort rourtelf with a gentle Philip Morri». So »ay the maker» of Philip 
Morn», whe bring you thi» column weekly through the »chool year.
Home Economies
Baked Alaska, jumbo pizza 
sandwiches, garlic bread, chocolate 
cake with ice cream balls, pump­
kin pie with pecan topping, angel 
food cake with an ice cream cen­
ter, and a cheese topped apple pie 
were some of the foods placed be­
fore Home Economics Club mem­
bers and home economics teachers 
to sample last Wednesday after­
noon.
These foods were prepared by 
Mildred Arnold, the traveling 
home economist for the American 
Baking Institute, in her demon­
stration called “The Modern Miss 
Cooks.” She emphasized quick 
and easy food preparation and 
gave many hints for future dem­
onstrators.
Before the demonstration, Barb 
Moore, Home Ec Club president, 
conducted a short business meet­
ing. The coming election of new 
officers was discussed.
Art
An exhibit of contemporary 
printmaking is on display in the 
College of Fine Arts Hewlett Gal­
lery.
The exhibition consists of 30 
prints in both color and black and 
white which represent a cross sec­
tion of printmaking as an expand­
ing art.
Lithographs printed from stone, 
etchings printed from zinc and 
copper plates, wood cuts and wood 
engravings, and prints produced 
by combining two ,,or more of 
these methods clearly indicate the 
vigor and vitality of printmaking 
today.
The exhibit shows how the artist 
has encompassed a great range 
representing many schools of 
thought and methods of approach. 
Prints by Ivan Albright, Garo
Antreasian, John Taylor Arms, 
Lawrence Barrett, Jean Chariot, 
Phillip Evergood, Oskar Kokosch­
ka and other famous artists are in 
the show.
The exhibition closes March 10.
Counselors Course
Girls, here is your opportunity 
to get professional training in 
camp counseling and also place­
ment for summer employment as 
a crafts or recreational instructor. 
Virginia Gillespie, a director of 
YW camps, has agreed to give in­
terested students who have had 
some background in crafts or rec­
reational skills free instruction in 
the techniques of general camp 
counseling under the sponsorship 
of Tech’s YWCA.
The course will include train­
ing for both private and social 
agency camps, instruction from 
specialists of the American Camp­
ing Association, and possibly an 
overnight camping trip. Classes 
will be held at 4:30 p.m. on the 
day when most students are free 
and will extend over a period of 
six to eight weeks. If you are in­
terested, sign up in Dean Hackett’s 
office, or with Miss Kanrick in the 
girl’s gym.
Seniors
All E & S seniors are in­
vited to attend the discussion 
of professional development 
and professional licensing to 
be held in PH 100 at 11:30, 
Tuesday, March 13. Dean 
Teare will explain the state 
engineering licensing system, 
Its relation to E & S seniors, 
and the new opportunity for 
taking the state exam before 
graduation.
Hillel
On Sunday evening, March 11, 
Hillel will hold a Model Seder at 
the Carnegie Union in conjunction 
with Pitt and Chatham Hillel 
chapters.
The Seder is a ceremonial din­
ner held the first and second nights 
of the Passover holidays to cele­
brate the liberation of the Israel­
ites from Egypt. The services held 
at the Model Seder will be an 
abbreviated version of a regular 
Seder. There will be a ticket sale 
at Skibo this week.
Dorm Mixer
On Friday night, March 9, there 
will be an informal mixer for all 
residents of men’s and women’s 
dormitories in the More wood Gar­
dens Rec Room from 8:30 to 12:00. 
There will be dancing and free re­
freshments.
T utoring
Tau Beta Pi is planning a 
tutoring program for this se­
mester involving the following 
technical subjects: S-102, S- 
222, S-224, S-402, S-403, and 
S-404. Students desiring to be 
tutored in any of these sub­
jects are asked to come to EH 
1112 on Wednesday, March 7, 
at 4:30 p.m., or to call Ted 
Hatch at MU 3-2235 before 
March 8.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0933
New Cenerai Electric Computer Building in Cincinnati
JOIN THE LARGEST INDUSTRIAL 
DIGITAL COMPUTER ORGANIZATION 
IN THE WORLD!
The Aircraft Gas Turbine Division of General Electric 
in Cincinnati, Ohio, has direct placement opportunities 
for men or women with
Bachelor’s
Master’s
Ph.D.
degrees in MATHEMATICS and related sciences.
Representatives will be on the campus ( __________)
Inquire at the Placement Office or write:
n^fv ouftyh^m sultfi Personnel Analyst 
Investigations Section, Bldg. 305 
rtlt^hp cpt.e^I. wuv
Cincinnati 15, Ohio
GENERALELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CAltNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 6, 1956
Editorial—
Curricula Rigidity
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
Is the Carnegie Tech curriculum for En­
gineering and Science students too rigid?
Should engineers have more electives?
Should they have a wider choice for the few 
electives they do have? Or is everybody 
satisfied with the present rigid system?
It is our opinion that there should be a 
certain degree of flexibility permitted in 
course selection which does not now exist.
Of course, anyone at all who has a burning 
desire to take a certain course and an equally 
fiery aversion to a course on his prospective 
schedule can probably succeed in switching 
them after several hours of conferences with 
department heads and faculty members. The 
red tape involved in obtaining such a con­
cession would set the national government 
to shame.
Under a plan for more electives, there 
would of necessity be a strict limit on the 
freedom of curriculum so that E & S fresh­
men would not select to take two semesters 
of some home ec course rather than calculus.
The biggest need for flexibility of choice is 
in the upperclass years, where practically everyone in E & S 
takes some courses which are not strictly within his particu­
lar field. Usually, he has no choice in the selection of these 
courses, and those scheduled by the departments are felt to 
be the minors most essential to the course of study.
But in many cases, a student desires more study along 
one line than other because he is planning for a certain type 
of work after graduation or because he just doesn t like 
the other line. Nevertheless, he must take the scheduled 
minors, few though they are, and useless as they seem to 
him, or else take an overload. (That business of overloads 
is worthy of an editorial in itself, and although some people 
thrive on them, a great many others are afraid of overload­
ing or else are ineligible for that sport.)
Consequently, many students of Engineering X are ex­
cessively disinterested in Course Y-000, taught by Depart­
ment Y, but required for students in X. Students in X are 
of two types: (1) Those who are totally disinterested and 
who reluctantly slide through the course via cooperative 
effort, or (2) Those who are interested and who are held 
back somewhat in their academic pursuits by the presence 
in the classroom of a considerable number of so called “dead­
heads.” In dealing with this type of motley crew, instruc­
tion is further hampered by the fact that, unfortunately, 
sleep teaching has not yet been completely mastered.
Therefore, it would seem best to allow upperclass E & S 
students more freedom in their selection of courses, both 
technical and social relations. They should at least have 
the privilege of choosing those soc rel electives about which 
they are most curious. The rigid control which Tech exerts 
in prescribing non-major courses is matched by few other 
colleges and universities.
This problem probably also exists in MMCC, Printing 
Management, Industrial Management, and possibly even to 
some extent in Fine Arts, but has been left unmentioned 
because we are relatively unfamiliar with the situations in 
these schools.
,Duri 15 the most important class you'll be takins-
60 ILL EXPECT A LITTLE EXW W0KK FROtA YOU THIS TERM."
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Cirnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Editer-ia-Ckief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Basiaess Manager ...................... ................... .......... ..............Vic Shiry
News Editor............................................................... ........... ............... ..................Marjo King
«parts Editor............................................................. ................................ ..........Tom Wright
Capy Editer.......................................... ................ ..........................................................Richard Tox
Featares Editer........................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Sorkin. 
Circulation Manager—Harley Bembach. Reporters—Evelyn Alessio, Marlene Daeh-
nert, Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, En Harriet Chang, Pat Mit­
chell, Anne Mehler, Lois Griffin. Barbara Hoenstine, Ann Forest, Joan Coprich, 
Jo Todes, Anna Hatzfeld, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister, Fay Fisher, Carol 
Sooy, Nancie Redpath, Gene Anderson, Bob Jack, A1 Federowicz, Arthur Marino, 
Bob Smith, Joe Batson. Featares Staff—Joe Szewc, Luis de la Macorra. Sport» 
Ha«—Bob Hoppe, Dick Swaney, Gerald Pittler, Jim Lacey, Don McClelland, Dick 
Walowit. Photographers—Phil Rathke, Stan Zawadowicz, John Alexander. Art Staff 
—Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Cop? Staff—Ed Rogers, Bill Mowry, Ed HOlsten, 
Jack Walker, Wade Biggs. Ofict Staff—Carol Millsom, Mary Lang don, Anne 
Barnes, Joan Seidel, Ruth Knott, Betty Krogh. Copy Banner*—Jim Kelly, Vic 
Obiirg. Circulation Staff—Ira Levine, Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters. Advertising Staff 
—Herbert Kreindler, Alan Hod el, Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.________________
Entered a* second class matter oa Oc*rtt>«r 4, 1807, «1 the Poe» Office at
Pittsburgh. Pa. under act etf Mart* 8. 1878. Accepted far mailing at
rate« of portage provided for In the act of February 88. 18*8.
a# the Associated Collegiate Press. ___ot national advertising by National Advertising, ftM. 
atative, 08 Madison Ave„ Me* Twk City. Subecnptkma 91.18
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
As I sit at my desk and write the last edition 
of “Over The Skibo Table” that will be published 
with my name in the byline, I’m a little regretful. 
These past two years have been a lot of fun for 
me and/or a lot of headaches for the editors of the 
Tartan. I would like to thank Dick Durstine, the 
first editor ever to have the courage to publish 
my writings, Paul Carmichael, the second editor, 
who had more courage than Durstine because he 
continued to publish the column, and Bob Russell, 
who I consider the best editor to direct the Tartan 
in the last five years.
A hearty thank-you for my readers (allr people 
who write Jiave illusions of grandeur about loyal 
readers), and finally, best of luck to Marshall Pihl 
who will continue the column.
* * *
Question: Are more students commuting than 
ever before or is parking space becoming limited? 
It could be that more students living in the dorms 
now own automobiles. Anyhow, parking space is 
dwindling. It was hoped when the barracks were 
torn down, this space, coupled with the school 
parking lots on Forbes Street, would be adequate. 
However, students are complaining about park­
ing facilities. Many cars are getting blocked in 
by other automobiles whose drivers use inefficient 
parking methods. Some cars are being damaged by 
irate drivers who want to move their vehicles but 
can’t.
A possible solution to the problem would be 
for the school to put in space dividers behind 
Donner Hall similar to the ones on the Forbes 
Street lot. This would stop erratic parking to a 
degree.
* * *
Little quickies: Cross burning sessions are the 
latest rage of the campus . . . Rumor has it
that a fight is brewing between the Tartan and 
the Scot . . . Scotch & Soda is planning to tele­
vise a half-hour of Head Over Heels over WQED 
. . . Don’t forget intramural night. A sweater hop 
will follow the presentation of awards . . . Track 
candidates should report to Coach Bob Carman 
as soon as possible . . . Epigram of the week: 
Love is a burning of the heart that eventually 
leads to heart trouble or heartburn . . .
* * *
Final Notes: Revision is the latest word on
campus and a clue to the activity of many organi­
zations. Student Council is revising its constitu­
tion as is Men’s Dorm Council. In the next eight 
weeks, nearly every major organization on campus 
will elect new officers for the coming year. The 
officers elected and their ideas will determine 
whether the organization progresses, digresses, re­
gresses, remains stagnant, or dies. Such is the life 
of the Ivory Tower . *. .
Little known facts about the faculty: Mr. Haines 
of the Phys Ed department is a darn good square 
dancer . . . Rumors about Dr. Eddy Baker leav­
ing Tech and coaching the Pittsburgh Steelers ap­
pear to be false . . . Mel Cratsley, Athletic Di­
rector and basketball coach, is a whiz at hand­
ball . . . It’s too bad the volleyball team that has 
represented Carnegie Tech in intercollegiate com­
petition these past few years is being discontinued. 
A lack of funds for the sport has been given as 
the reason.
Letters—
Council Revision
Editor, the Tartan:
I should like to comment briefly on the current 
proposals for revision of Tech’s student govern­
ment. In so doing I write not as a member of any 
faction, living group, or other organization exerting 
“power” on this campus, but rather as an individual 
in the campus community.
Three week-end conferences have come and 
gone this school year, and as yet there is no con­
certed effort to tackle a central problem of defini­
tion—that of the relationship of administrative 
authority and student government authority. 
Without such definition clearly before them, no 
group should expect to be able to go through other 
than the motions of forming a satisfactory govern­
ment. With such definition the student government 
could provide active and reasonable liaison service 
between the entire student body and the administra­
tion.
The proposed constitution itself is a document 
which commands awe from bulk alone. In other 
respects however it does not fare well. The failure 
to apportion representation on an equitable basis 
is barbarous. Its mass of clauses contains re­
dundancies and grammatical errors. It is singu­
larly lacking in compactness and literary simplici­
ty. The lack of effective “lines of command” would 
lead to chaos in a governing body which intended 
to do anything.
It would be folly to pretend that Tech’s stu­
dent government problems (or for that matter 
“school spirit” problems) are unique. But it is 
madness to assume that just because such problems 
exist they can be met best by pseudo judicial phrase­
ology which at worst has fascistic undertones and 
at best is just so much talk. It is time that our 
“leaders” realize our college community is not a 
slice of life but a restricted area in which we are 
trying to attain some pre-professional skill. When 
they define their limitations and obligations they 
may produce a statement which will be satisfactory 
for the whole community.
William C. Schall 
Chemical Engineering, 1958.* * *
Editor’s Note: According to the latest word from 
the ultimate authorities on this subject, ODK and 
Mortar Board, there has been a committee of 
members of Student Council appointed to draw up 
a constitution as such for final presentation. Actu­
ally, the document discussed at the leader’s con­
ference with all its “pseudojudicial phraseology” 
was intended to be merely an outline for the con­
stitution, and the product of this new Council 
committee is expected to be considerably less re­
dundant and more grammatical.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Greek Sing and Swing is over. Looking back 
we are glad because our worries are also over, 
but not for long. Spring Carnival is near and the 
time has come when we have to start thinking 
about the buggy race, the booths, and so many 
other things.
As usual, the Greek Sing results caused a few 
momentary resentments, but afterwards everybody 
agreed that all the groups tried and did their best. 
The Kappas’ showing at the Carnegie Hall was so 
good, that we wonder why they sing so lousy at 
the dance. Congratulations are due to all the win­
ning conductors and their groups. But I think that 
a hand is also due for the wonderful work that 
Eileen Landay and Bill McDonald did as Sing Co- 
chairmen . . .
Speaking of Greek Sing, I am glad to inform 
all my readers that WRCT will play back the re­
cordings made on Friday night on two different pro­
grams. The first one, which will include the win­
ning teams, is scheduled for Wednesday, March 7, 
at 8:00 p.m., and the second one will be on the air 
a week later at the same time.
In today’s paper you wjjl read the last ‘Over 
the Skibo Table’ column, written by my friendly 
competitor Joe Szewc. I was very sorry to hear 
that he has decided not to write any more for our 
newspaper, and I would like to thank him for 
the personal advice given to me during my first 
battles as an amateur writer . . .
I have a few small items of news that I would 
like to include before I say hasta la vista. This 
coming Friday a Dorm Mixer will take place in 
the Rec room of Morewood Gardens. This func­
tion will be transmitted by WRCT; the program will 
consist of interviews and music . . . The ugh-ugh 
signs that appeared this week on the campus 
lawns are another A Phi O service. Let us hope 
they will do some good . . .
Dorm residents, beware of parking your cars 
behind Donner Hall, that is, if you have a radio 
in your car and you want to keep it . . . There 
has been some talk about a new literary publica­
tion to be edited and published by Tech students. 
Planned to include both faculty and students writ­
ings, it promises to be an interesting magazine.

---------------------------------------------------

;.. And familiar things are the best. Like Coca-Cola. Full 
of fresh, keen sparkle . . . natural quick energy . . . and 
it’» so pure and wholesome — naturally friendly to your 
figure. Have it whenever you like.
•OTTIED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IV 
k QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
9 *¦}** Central ngte ms oahloo
1» a r«gi»tar«<l traé^mork. * ItM. THE COCA COtA COMPANY
(
NORTH AMERICAN'S 
COLUMBUS DIVISION
North American Aviation, foremost in the design and production of 
military aircraft, has an established engineering team at its Columbus 
Division with prime responsibility for complete design and development 
of Navy aircraft.
The New FJ-4—Navy’s latest and fastest Fury Jet—is. the most 
recent achievement at Columbus. Other, even more advanced designs 
are now being developed from initial concept to actual flight...creating 
top opportunities for virtually all types of graduate engineers.
Contact your Placement Office for an appointment with North 
American representatives.
Or write: Engineering Personnel Office, Dept. COL, North American Aviation, Colu mbus 16, Ohio.
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC. sk
COIUMIUS DIVISION ^
NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MONK AIRPLANE* THAN ANY OTHER COM-PANY IN THE WORLD
H
Tuesday, March 6, 1956—CARNEGIE TAKTAN—Page 5
Tech Bids Goodbye To Seniors As 
State Wins On Second Half Rally
Four of Carnegie Tech’s basketball stalwarts played their final* 
coT^ ge game last Wednesday night against Penn State. Mel Cratsley’s 
hustlers, who beat State earlier this year, lost their contest in the 
second half, 76-66.
Tech solved State’s zone de-# ------------------------- -------though they managed to fightiense early in the first period and 
led by one at the half, 35-34. 
Ralph Mocker led the Tartans in 
this period with five baskets.
Both teams scored evenly in the 
beginning of the second half un­
til State’s offense started to click 
an' they went ahead to stay when 
6’-i ’ Bob Ramsey’s tip-in made 
it 46-44. The Carnegie five could 
never equal its first half offensive 
or defensive play after that, al-
# * #
back to a 6 point deficit several 
times after being down by 12. The 
Tartans were out rebounded in 
this stanza and couldn’t stop the 
vicitors’ Earl Fields and Bobby 
Hoffman, who did most of their 
scoring in the second half.
The four departing seniors, Jim 
Boyd, Dick Fieler, Ralph Mocker, 
and Wayne Nathanson were given 
a standing ovation by the Tech 
crowd to add to Dean Strick’s
* * *
half-time praise.
The Tartans finished their big- 
league schedule with an 8-13 re­
cord. Penn State finished their 
season the following Saturday 
with a loss at Pitt to compile a 
12-14 record. Fields led both 
teams in scoring with 23, while 
Marisa talleyed 17 and Hoffman
14 for the visitors. Frank scored 
22 for the home forces. Both 
teams had 25 field goals, but Tech 
was second again in foul shooting.
Tech’s freshman quintet troun­
ced the Rockets, 1955 intramural 
champions, 76-44, in the prelim­
inary contest.
CARNEGIE I PENN STATE 
G. F. P.|
Fieler, t 3 2 8| Fields, f
Boyd, f 3 0 6| Marisa, f
Frank, c 5 12 22]Jordy, c 
Nathans’n, g 3 0 6|Leisher, g
Mocker, g 7 1 15|Hoffman, g
Sob’l’wski, c 2 1 5| Ramsay, c
Rupert, g 0 0 0|Hall, f
Tucci, f 2 0 4|
Totals 25 16 661 Totals 25 26 76
TECH ............... 35 31—66
PENN STATE . 34 42—76
PerSonal fouls: Tech (21)—Fieler 2,
Boyd 5, Frank 5, Nathanson 2, Mocker 
4, Sobolewski 2, Rupert. Penn State 
(17)—Fields 3, Marisa 2, Jordy 2, Leish- 
er, Ramsay 4, Hall 5.
Missed free throws: Tech (11)—Fieler 
2, Boyd 4, Frank 3. Mocker, Sobolewski. 
Penn State (12)—Fields 4, Marisa 4, 
Leisher, Hoffman, Hall 2.
Officials: Red Mihalik and Nick Jacobs.
G. F. P. 
8 7 23
6 5 170 0 0 
0 9 9
7 0 14
3 4 10113
By Bernie Seigel
To be a sportswriter takes very little knowledge of grammar or 
structure. The necessary ingredient is the profound use of many 
adjectives and nouns all discussing the same thing. For an instance 
of such take this: “The cagers pressed the ball down court under 
thei& own hoop and so flipped a fielder to put coach Q’s courtrr en 
ahead.” This sentence makes litle or no sense, but sports fans 
gobble it up. So you see, when we say Mel’s Mighty Midgets, we 
really mean Carnegie Tech’s Hoopsters. You know, cagers. Or bet­
ter still, hardwood floorsters.
One of our better cagers around here is Ralph Mocker. We say 
“Barracuda” is one of the tri-state’s top floor men. “Tiger” Rupert 
seems to have become a sentimental favorite among the local fans 
also. Seems they like his cool head and try.
Over a few yards and down a floor, ’round the local swimmin’ 
hole, Coach Sofield’s boys are splashing up a storm. They are winning 
a few swimming meets with the aid of a newcomer by the name of 
Ross Engleman and a few old timers like Dave Harrington and Dick 
Shipley. Dave Shuck, team captain has been suffering from the flu 
and has just recovered. When he gets back on the toe line, the 
tankers will feel a little ease of tension.
Coach Bob Carmen’s harriers have been working out daily in 
Schenley Park as well as the Pitt Field and pre-season dope points 
to a pretty good season. With Arnie Olds back from the Army and 
some pole vaulters coming on, the record book ma get some dust 
blown off when it gets rewritten. We don’t wish to appear pre­
dictive, but look for the quarter, half, mile and two mile marks 
to shrink. Main contributors ma be Eric Ottervik, Arnie Olds, Bill 
and Larry Bryant, and Bill Whitman.
Not to be outdone, we of Sportscope offer a prize to any girl 
who will merely answer this line in 75 words or less, “Tech's ath­
letic system needs . . . .!” Please address all entries to Bernie 
Seigel, Tartan spores, intraschool mail. A representative will pick 
up the entries. Prize will be the title of Miss Sportscope for the 
month.
A1 Frank sinks a short one as Penn State futilely awaits the 
rebound.
m ldhe, £igwm'/S 
£o/wUflioA,

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 6, 195«
IM Basketball In Final Week 
With Five Leagues Undecided
One league title was wrapped up in last week’s play, but the 
other five leagues must wait until the final games to decide their 
champions. In the Skibo league, EEME created a three-team race 
when they topped the Delts. BTP has clinched a tie for the title, 
and the other leader will be de-*
cided when the other two top 
teams, the Englishmen and DTD, 
play this week.
The Trojans clinched the Tartan 
championship with a victory over 
SAE “A”, and made the playoffs 
with a perfect record. The Rock­
ets assured themselves of a tie by 
beating the Vets in the Plaid 
league. The only team with a 
chance to catch them is APO, 
which plays the Grad Mesons, KS 
seems headed for the Kiltie 
League title. They must beat TX 
“nothings” and BTP “B,” two of 
the weaker teams in the league. 
Should KS lose one game, they 
would fall into a tie with DU 
“A”. The Scot League shows the 
Tech Gems with a 5-0 record and 
the Obelisks with 4-1.
ATO has all but won the Tech 
League, as they have only to beat 
PK “B” to finish with a perfect 
record ahead of TX (5-1).
The playoffs, which will cap a 
very good season, are scheduled 
to begin on or about March 12. 
Although the others can not be 
discounted, the teams to beat are 
the Rockets, KS “A”, and ATO 
“A”.
Co-Rec Badminton
This is the last chance for
Tecli Beaten In
couples to enter the co-rec bad­
minton tournament. Entries are 
due by 4:30 on Wednesday March
7. Play will begin March 12.
IM Fencing 
Since there are still a few va­
cancies in the Intramural fencing 
tournament, interested students 
may enter the competition by see­
ing Mr. Birdy immediately.
Foul Shooting:
Entries are due for the foul 
shooting tournament on Friday, 
March 9. The tournament will be 
played March 13 and 14 at 4:30.
IM games postponed dur­
ing the regular season will be 
made up on March 7 and 8. 
The games between Skibo and 
Kiltie League teams 2-7 and 
3-7 will be played at 4:30 on 
March 7 and 8 respectively. 
At 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. March
7 the games of January 13 
will be played.
Badminton Clinic
Allegheny County Associa­
tion for Health, Physical Edu­
cation, and Reereation will 
hold a Badminton Clinic at 
Carnegie Tech Gym on Wed­
nesday, March 14 from 8 to
10 p.m.
Atfenfion-Faculty, Students and Graduates
ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE CAMPS
COMPRISING 250 outstanding Boys, Girls, Brother- 
Sister and Co-ed camps, located throughout the New 
England States and Canada . . .
Invites your inquiries concerning summer employment 
as counsellors, instructors or administrators. Positions 
are available in all areas of camping activities for chil­
dren.
WRITE: ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE CAMPS—DEPT. C 
55 West 42nd St., Room 743, New York 36, N. Y.
Rifle Team—
[Continued from page 1] 
spot, in the event that Duquesne 
and West Virginia eliminated each 
other at the same time in their two 
remaining matches together. The 
W & J win would at least assure 
CIT of participation in a shoot-off 
for first place.
Wins this season were registered 
twice over Indiana, Geneva, and 
Pitt, while W & J, Duquesne, and 
West Virginia each succumbed 
once.
Individual high average honors 
are currently held by John Herr, 
with a remarkable 287.4 points per 
match. Selected for the All-Amer­
ican College Rifle Team last year, 
Herr has a good chance of winning 
this honor and ag^in being award­
ed a golden bullet, symbol of su­
premacy.
Following the close of the sea-
IM Night
This year’s IM Night is on 
Friday, March 23, from 7:00 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m., and it has 
been made an all-school func­
tion. Since this means the fra­
ternity-sorority parties won’t 
begin until 9:30 p.m., let’* Wee 
everyone at the gym watch­
ing the basketball finals. The 
various trophies won during 
the year will be disrtibuted 
by Ray Matthews of the Steel- 
ers. Among the new attrac­
tions this year are the feneing 
championship finals In both 
the male and female classes. 
Other entertainment will fol­
low the basketball game.
son, the team will travel to An­
napolis to compete in an NRA sec­
tional match.
Pepsi-Coia Metropolitan Bottling Co.. Pittsburgh to. Pa.
ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil
Tri-Slate SwimFabulous oil-made rubber in todays new cars
The Tartan Tankmen traveled 
to Grove City Saturday to com-, 
pete in the annual Penn-Ohio 
swimming meet. The result was 
a final season loss for the Tech- 
ites. Allegheny won the meet 
which proved to be very highly 
competitive, resulting in four re­
cords set and another tied.
Allegheny scored 52 points 
to beat out the defending cham­
pion Grove City, which finished 
second with 42 points. Other 
team scores were Westminster 38, 
Case Tech 34^2, Slippery Rock 32, 
Carnegie Tech 28V2, Washington 
& Jefferson 13Vfe and Penn 9 
points.
Allegheny’s 300-yard medley 
relay te/.m had a 3:04 time to beat 
the 3:10 mark set by the Tartans 
last year.
The Tech Tankers were not 
able to capture a first or second 
in the entire meet and the best
they could do was a third in the 
220-yard back stroke. It was just
one of those bad days for the
Tartans, but still it can be con­
sidered a pretty good season. The 
core of a good team will be re­
turning next year and another
good season is predicted.
Following are the results of the 
meet:
300-yards medley relay—1. Allegheny 
(Cox .Poulson. Fisher); 2. Grove City; 3. 
Westminster; 4. Carnegie Tech; 5. Slip­
pery Rock; 6. Tie, Case and Wash.-Jeff. 
Time 3:04 (new record).220-vards free style—1. Bowie. Grove 
City; 2, White, Allegheny; 3. Haas, Case;
4. Wessel, Westminster; 5. Pyle, Case; 
6. Shuck, Carnegie Tech. Time 2:26.9.
50-yards free style—1. McGrath, West­
minster; 2. McCorkle, Slippery Rock; 3. 
Fisher, Allegheny; 4. Emling, Case; 5. 
Peters, Slippery Rck; 6. Long, Westmin­
ster. Time :25.200-yards individual medley—>1. Steller, 
Grove City; 2. Morris, Case; 3. Smith, 
Grove City; 4. Harrington. Carnegie Tech;
5. Cox, Allegheny; 6. Berndt, Penn. Time I 
2:26 7.Divine—1. Kleinchnitz, Penn; 2. Dean, j 
Slippery Rock; 3. Tromblee. Case; 4 
Patrick. Carnegie Tech; 5. Boyle, Slippery j 
Rock; 6. Peters. Grove City.100-yards free style—Morris, Case; 2. | 
Poulson, Allegheny; 3. Steller. Grove 
City; 4 McCorkle, Slippery Rock; . 5. 
Peters, Slippery Rock; 6. tie. Brand. 
Allegheny and Goldman. Carnegie Tech. 
Time :55.1. (ties record!.220-yards back stroke—1. Cox, Alleghe­
ny; 2. Smith. Grove City; 3. Long. Car­
negie Tech; 4. Shuck, Camegie Tech; 5. 
Bolt. Slippery Rock; 6. Keppel, West­
minster. Time 2:18.7 (new record).
4M-yards free style—1. White, Alleghe­
ny; 1. Wagner, Westminster; 3. Exstrom, 
Wash.-Jeff.; 4. Haas, Case; 5. Shuck, 
Camegie Tech; S. Hamel, Fenn. Time 
5:2*5.22#-ya rds fcreast stroke—1. Bowie, 
Grove City; 2 Frani, Wash.-Jeff.; 3. 
Gyaegen. Wash.-Jeff.; 5. Derringer, Car­
negie Tech; 5. Sofield, Slippery Rock; 6. 
Clark, Grove City. Time 2:40.6.400-yards free style relay—1. West­
minster < Long. McGrath, Wessel. Wag- 
ueri; 2. Allegheny; 3. Case; 4. Slippery 
Bock; 5. Camegie Tech; 6. Grove City. 
Tim« *:5«.3 (new record!.
Weather-sealing the new wrap-around windshields calls for a rubber that can resist the toughest 
elements. That’s Butyl rubber, made from oil by Esso ResearchI This remarkable rubber 
out-performs natural and other types of rubber in more than 100 parts of today s new i
cars. Its dramatic proof that ESSO RESEARCH works bonders with oil. VCSSO^

---------------------------------------------------

¥Tuesday, March «, 195«—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Fa»« 7
of “Practical Catholicity,” Father 
Getty spoke on the Sacrament of 
Holy Eucharist, tracing the origin 
of this great Sacrament back to the 
time of Moses. In bringing the 
Sacrament up to the present day, 
Father Getty said that the Holy 
Eucharist is not something we 
have a right to, but rather is the 
greatest gift and privilege that 
can be given to a human being.
Another very interesting fact 
brought out during the evening 
was that the Mass is the “Greatest 
Show on Earth” and that it has 
had the longest run of any show 
in history.
Men Do The Dishes
Following the Father’s talk, there 
was an open discussion on the sub­
ject where many varied and inter­
esting questions were asked. The 
meeting was brought to a close 
with a prayer; then everyone knelt 
to receive the Father’s blessing.
Seen later sitting abou, the din­
ing room, eating ham salad sand­
wiches and drinking coffe, were 
Bob (our common man!) and Bet­
ty Hirsh, Sam LeDonne, Fred 
Pope, Lee Green, Fran Dubieh, her 
sister Marge, another girl friend, 
and many others. The rehabilita­
tion committee certainly made 
short work of the dishes after­
wards.
Next week, March 4, at 7:30 
p.m., the speaker will be Fr. Crow­
ley from Duquesne University. His 
topic will be Christian Art Ap­
preciation.
ideline News ék Views
City Club style T771 City Club style 84462 City Club style 84680for leisure “off for class and busi- when you’re ahours" ness “dressed-up knight”
Choose your 3-pair shoe wardrobe from these and hun­
dreds of other smart City Club styles at your dealer’s, 
from $8.95 to $18.95. Also ask to see Wes boro shoes for 
young men, from $7.95 to $9.95.
by Peters ¦ distinctive shoes for men 
as advertised in ESQUIRE . -
The AEROJET-GENERAL Corp
Is America’s Leading Industrial Organization 
devoted to research development and manufacture of rocket en­
gines and related devices. With plants at Azusa and Sacramento9 
California? Aerojet offers unparalleled career opportunities in the 
following fields:
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MATHEMATICSCHEMICAL ENGINEERING DHVr,rrELECTRICAL ENGINEERINGELECTRONIC ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY
CIVIL ENGINEERING METALLURGY
Representatives of Aero jet-General tv ill be 
on campus to interview for positions in the 
rewarding, challenging field of rocket pro­
pulsion on March 7 & 8
• Solid and liquid propellant 
rockets for assisted takeoff
and in-flight thrust augmentation 
of missiles and aircraft
• Thrust reversers
• Auxiliary power units and gas 
generators
• Upper atmosphere research 
rockets
• Underwater propulsion devices
• Electronics and guidance
• Ordnance rockets
• Explosive ordnance, 
warheads and armament
• Flame throwers
• Propellants and propellant 
chemicals
• Primary batteries
• Pressure vessels
• Architect-Engineer Services
• Rocket test facilities
North American 
Aviation 
Los Angeles
The AEROJET-GENERAL Corpwill interview here
A subsidiary of the General Tire & Rubber Company
AZUSA, CALIFORNIA .:. SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA
Ski
|// / Jhj
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
jgjlitor .............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
jfrporter ..................................................................... John Van Holt, Jr
Prominent Priest 
At Newman Club 
In Lenten Series
The second Lenten meeting of 
the Evening School Newman Club 
was held at the Carnegie Union on 
Sunday, February 26. The guest 
speaker for the evening, Father 
Roy G. Getty, Assistant Pastor, St. 
James Church, Sewickley, was in­
troduced to the group by . Miss 
Dolores Neff, vice-president. In 
line with the club’s Lenten theme
Evening Students 
Invited To Attend 
Hillel Activities
Hillel, the representative Jew­
ish organization on the Carnegie 
Tech campus, has for several years 
been limiting its activities to day 
school students. Hillel now feels 
that it should expand to include 
evening students. The evening 
school students are welcome to 
attend all the day school functions
such as the Sunday brunches, the 
forthcoming Model Seder, parties, 
and discussions. They will also 
have their own meetings and plan 
their own social functions. The 
first meeting will be held Wednes­
day evening, March 14, at 8:30 
p.m. in AH 130. All those inter­
ested but unable to attend this 
meeting are asked to contact Dr. 
Robert Schwarz at MA 1-2600, 
Extension 307.
There are as many automobiles 
in the U. S. as there are families.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 6, 1956
Research Department
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
400 South Main Street 
East Hartford 8, Connecticut
Thistle Meeting
There will be a general 
meeting of all persons con­
nected with the 1956 Thistle 
Sunday, March 12 at 2:00 p.m. 
in the Union. This includes 
those people who signed up 
to work and have not been 
contacted.
Workneh—
[Continued from page 2]
grades than locomotives, but 
trucking isn’t a very efficient 
method of transporting ores; the 
load is too heavy for most vehi­
cles, the rolling stock would have 
to be imported, traffic jams would 
bog the system and the expense of 
many small truck loads would be 
exorbitant.
But the new field of hydraulic 
transportation, in which solids are 
carried over the roughest terrain 
by a fluid coursing through a sys­
tem of pipelines, appears especially 
applicable to Ethiopia. Study 
shows that a twelve-inch line 
could deliver 300 pounds per sec­
ond, an equivalent of a 50-car 
train each hour. This is enough to 
convince Haile that hydraulic 
transportation is the answer to the 
Ethiopian dream.
Civil Engineer’s Dream
At present, Ethiopia imports 
metals, metal goods, petroleum 
products, textiles, rubber goods. 
Many of these things could be pro­
duced at home if the nation had 
access to its own material wealth. 
They could easily translate native 
iron ore and coal into steel, for 
instance, and even the water car­
rying the coal could be utilized 
as a coolant in the blast furnaces 
where the steel is made.
Using hydraulic transportation, 
Haile says, Ethiopia can grow into 
one of the world’s leading nations.
The land brims with natural re­
sources. The people are possessed 
of a systematic drive to develop 
themselves technically; fine arts, 
law and economics are already old 
hat to them. And the emperor is 
so inspired with education that he 
proclaimed himself its minister. 
Abetting the technological assist­
ance program from the United 
States, he sends over 300 students 
abroad every year to study under 
the sponsorship of the Imperial 
Ministry of Education. Five native 
universities and colleges are under 
construction.
Water Power Abundant
There is only one contingency 
to the potential growth of Ethi­
opia as Haile sees it. That is water 
power and fortunately, those same 
mountains which impose the prob­
lem also hold the solution. Ethi­
opia is one of the few places in 
Africa where there is an abund­
ance of potential water power.
The first task Haile set for him­
self was finding ways to harness 
this potential. His master’s work 
at Carnegie Tech was a study of 
converging stream in horizontal 
and rectangular channels. After 
satisfying himself that the poten­
tial water power could be utilized, 
he broached the study of trans­
porting solids in liquids for his 
doctorate.
Work For UN
Only once in his eight years here 
has Haile gone home. In 1954 he 
returned to Ethiopia to visit his 
family, but the alert Ministry of 
Education put him to work imme­
diately, inspecting schools, power 
plants, port developments, and 
communications. They asked for 
his recommendations for improve­
ment in the light of what he has 
seen and studied here.
And back on American soil, the 
United Nations and the U.S. Voice 
of America asked for his assist­
ance. So three times a year, Haile 
goes to New York where he trans­
lates United Nations news into 
Amharic, the native tongue re­
sembling Hebrew, and broadcasts 
to his homeland.
After completing his doctorate 
this June, the young Ethiopian en­
gineer intends to work with an 
American firm for at least a year 
to gain practical views on his 
studies. Then he will return home 
to assume his vital role in the re­
shaping of a nation.
. |
Attractive openings \now availablein the following sections:
Propulsion <
Aerodynamics ^
Performance Analysis 
Helicopters ^
Combustion and Fuels 
Instrumentation 
Wind Tunnel Operations 
Machine Computation 
Design 4
Operations Research !
INTERVIEWS^
Tues. & Wed., Mar. 13,14
See your College Placement Officer M for an appointment and a copy i of our brochure.
0>
interesting
careers
" • r
In a Growing Company
Located at Menasha, Wisconsin, Marathon is a leading producer of packages and 
packaging materials for foods and non-foods, Northern household paper products and 
chemical products. It has 14 plants in 12 locations in the United States and Canada.
In Sales and Marketing
Field selling, sales service, product 
development, market research, advertising 
and credit.
In Accounting
Plant, cost and financial accounting, 
budget, procedures, auditing, tax.
In Engineering and Manufacturing
Chemical, mechanical, industrial en­
gineering. Production, production control 
and quality control.
In Research
Wood technology, pulp, paper, 
chemical converting.
In Industrial Relations
Administration, recruitment, industrial 
training, insurance-retirement, wage and 
salary administration.
In communities designed for real living
Marathon headquarters at Menasha on the shores of Lake Winnebago in eastern 
Wisconsin. Along with its twin city of Neenah, it offers excellent schools, playgrounds, 
fishing, other water sports and desirable residential districts. What's more, big league 
baseball and football are just a short drive away. They're communities that do big-city 
things without big-city hustle and bustle.
fa»
Interviews at Placement Office 
Thursday, March 22
Marathon
