THE TARTAN
CMU lowers to 24th in U.S. News national rank
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan News Editor
For the fourth year in a row, Carnegie Mellon 
ranked among the top 25 research-oriented na­
tional institutions. CMU ranked 24th in the 
nation, moving
Trends in CMU's National Rank
down from 19th 
last year, ac­
cording to U.S.
News & World 
Report. Harvard 
University 
ranked number 
one for the 
fourth year run­
ning.
CMU received 
an overall score 
of86.5outofl00 
points, a de­
crease of 2.7 
points from last 
year.
CMU’s score 
placeditself between the University of Michigan 
and a two-way tie between Emory University in 
Georgia and the University of Notre Dame, ac­
cording to U.S. News.
According to the survey, CMU also has the 
third highest acceptance rate of the top 25 na­
tional universities, 59 percent, and is tied with 
UCLA for the lowest graduation percentage of 
the top 25 universities with 72 percent.
1991
However, since CMU receivedits highest rank 
so far last year, statistics related to CMU have 
improved. Last year, CMU’s acceptance rate was 
55 percent, and its graduation rate was 69 per­
cent. Thus, Carnegie Mellon has accepted more 
applicants and graduated more students since 
last year’s sur­
vey.
The survey is: 
taken from a 
study of 1,371 
accredited 
four-year col­
leges and uni­
versities with 
enrollments of 
greater than 
200 students.
The score 
was based on 
the following 
criteria, with 
CMU’s ranks 
given in paren­
theses: Alumni
1992 1993 1994
Ramsey Hong/Tartan Art Editor
satisfaction (21st) counted as 5 percent, gradua­
tion rate rank (47th) as 10 percent, financial 
resources (18th) as 15 percent, faculty resources 
(22nd) as 20 percent, and both student selectiv­
ity (40th) and academic reputation (25th) counted 
as 25 percent each.
The results of the survey will be published in 
the October 4issue of U.S. News & WorldReport, 
available at newsstands starting today.
Meningitis infects studentHealth Services takes action, reduces risk
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A CMU student was diagnosed 
with meningococcal meningitis on 
Saturday, September 18. The stu­
dent, whose identity is being kept 
confidential, was taken to Pres­
byterian Hospital in Oakland 
where she is recovering and re­
mains in stable condition.
The student collapsed Satur­
day night and was quickly rushed 
to the hospital where she was 
treated for meningitis. The hos­
pital informed Health Services 
on Monday. Due to the nature of 
the disease, itis impossible to tell 
when and how the student con­
tracted the disease.
Meningococcal meningitis is an 
infection of the lining of the spi­
nal cord and brain. “This is not an 
easily contracted disease,” said 
Anita Barkin, director of Health 
Services. “It is spread through 
direct contact with respiratory 
droplets of saliva.” The symptoms 
of the disease are flu-like, mak- 
ingit difficult to detect. If it is not 
treated in time, the disease can 
prove to be fatal.
Meningitis spreads by direct 
contact with an infected person. 
The sharing of a drink, tooth­
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan News Editor
Last Monday morning, Dr. 
Charles Lowiy, University librar­
ian, met with Student Senate’s 
Campus Affairs Committee and 
members of Student Government 
to discuss the change in Hunt 
Library hours and the process by 
which the decision to change the 
hours was made. This was the 
first meeting on a decision-mak- 
ing issue between the library ad­
ministration and Student Sen­
ate, according to Student Gov­
ernment President David 
Wolpert.
“I consider it critically impor­
tant that I have the opportunity 
to have a discussion with the stu­
dent leadership,” said Lowry. 
“The reason for the original dis­
cussion was to assure that we 
developed something we haven’t 
developed before—a good oppor­
tunity for students to come and 
talk about changes in library ser­
vices.”
Senator Greg Haverkamp, vice 
chair of Student Senate and or­
ganizer of the past three library 
sit-ins, said that Student Senate 
spoke with Lowry about three 
issues: the process followed in 
making the decision to change
Hunt’s hours, the decision to ex­
tend hours of the first floor and 
the basement, and the data col­
lected, whether or not they were 
sufficient.
“I think it was a positive first 
meeting to the extent that it 
opened a line of communication,” 
said Wolpert. “There was the op­
portunity to voice our specific con­
cerns [as well as] Lowry’s justifi- 
cationsfor his decisions.” Wolpert 
said that Lowry also offered good 
suggestions to streamline the 
decision-making process.
However, Wolpert said that 
Lowry didnot show a willingness 
to change his position. “I think 
he’s willing to listen, but not will­
ing to act,” he said,
Wolpert and Haverkamp 
agreed that the only thing that 
came out of the meeting was fur­
ther study of the usage of the 
library, especially between the 
hours of 10 pm and 1 am. “Based 
on his general attitude,” said 
Wolpert, “whatever data we re­
ceive will not cause him to change 
the hours.”
“I am reluctant to go back,” 
said Lowry, “I have to honor a 
decision... made with the depart­
ment heads.”
Lowry said, “The bottom line is 
how can we use the library’s re­
Inside... t__——_________________Jessica Chalifoux, a sophomore H&SS student, makes 
Classifieds 9 a strawbe,r> daiquiri during the reopening of Scotland
Comjcs ...........................L4 Yard on Thursday. Over 200 customers were served.
Diversions............................L9 • Students! All kinds of stu-
Features...............................LI dents! Read about students.
Forum.................................................................................................4 See page LI
Sports.......................................7
Calendar.............................LI 2 • Gifts is playing at Kresge.
Vox Populi..........................L12 You want to read its review?
See page L9
• Students respond to last 
week’s fraternity column.
See page 5
• Men’s soccer sets CMU record 
with 6 straight victories.
See page 7
brush, or anything involving the 
saliva can pass the disease along. 
It can’t be passed along with just 
a sneeze. “You can’t get it from 
sharing a telephone, doorknobs 
or being in class with someone,” 
said Barkin.
In order to contract the disease 
from someone without direct con­
tact, one must be in a confined 
area with an infected person for 
three or four hours to become 
infected.
Meningitis is not a rare dis­
ease. In a city with the size and 
population of Pittsburgh, there is 
bound to be at least seven to 10 
cases reported each year. “The 
organism is always present in 
the population,” said Joan 
McMahn, Chief of Division of In­
fectious Diseases at the Allegh­
eny Health Department. Accord­
ing to Mc-Mahn, 10 percent of the 
population are non-contagious 
carriers ofthe orgsrasmNeisseria 
meningitidis, an early form of 
meningitis, but only a small num­
ber will become sick.
After Health Services was in­
formed of the situation, they ob­
tained a list from the patient of 
her roommates and any other 
people she may have been in con­
tact with. They then began
prophylaxing, orprotecting, those 
people. The student also had at­
tended a party, and all those 
present were prophylaxed. “We 
proceeded with greatexpediency,” 
said Barkin. “We prophylaxed 
anyone we felt had any chance of 
being in contact with the stu­
dent.”
According to Pat Hamed, as­
sistant to the Dean of Student 
Affairs, the only people at risk 
are those who were at the Pi 
Lambda Phi fraternity house last 
Friday evening and Saturday 
morning. She said that any stu­
dent with a concern about menin­
gitis should go to Health Services 
to discuss it with the staff.
A total of 93 people were all 
treated with Rifampin, an oral 
medication that is taken for two 
days to prevent infection. The 
drug is safe and has no side ef­
fects.
Meningitis is difficult to diag­
nose, becauseit has flu-like symp­
toms. With the prophylaxing of 
all the possible contacts, the situ­
ation is under control, and no 
new cases are to be expected. As 
for the student, Barkin could not 
say when she would return but 
did report that she will make a 
full recovery.
Senate committee meets 
with library administration
sources to provide them to stu­
dents effectively. When you make 
a change like the hours, it’s im­
mediately recognizable. Campus 
Affairs [Committee] has agreed 
to work with [the library admin­
istration] for setting criteria for 
examining the issue.”
Based on the discussion in 
Monday’s meeting, Wolpert rec­
ommended at the next Senate 
meeting that no more sit-ins 
should be held. He said in the 
meeting that the library should 
be opened until 2 am on all floors, 
and that since awareness and 
attention was drawn to the issue 
of the library hours, he advocated 
not having a sit-in.
“All of us had a slightly differ­
ent reason for sitting in,” said 
Wolpert, “but everyone wanted 
to accomplish two things — send 
a signal to [Lowry] that this an 
issue we have taken seriously 
and get the library back open to 3 
am.”
“We have a major disagree­
ment,” said Haverkamp. “Some­
times you have to upset people to 
get things done and get noticed... 
Well continue to have sit-ins until 
there is a reasonable response 
from University Libraries.”
Another sit-in is planned for 
Thursday night.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer“We are the Earthworms!”
The Earthworms, an alternative hypno-folk band, played at the Skibo Ballroom on Friday night. The 
concert was sponsored by AB Coffeehouse.
Students ask shuttle services to expand to Squirrel Hill area
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The campus shuttle service has evolved since its 
inception in 1982, says James LaPaglia, director of 
campus security.
Some students would like to see the service 
expand further, however; they’dlike to see a Squir­
rel Hill route added. Currently, there are only two 
shuttle routes, serving Oakland and Shadyside.
The service, now officially called Shuttle/Escort, 
was created by Campus Police at the request of the 
Housing Office. It was intended to provide a safe 
means for students who lived in off-campus Uni­
versity housing to get to and from home.
However, LaPaglia says, the shuttle is being 
used more and more as a substitute for the Port 
Authority bus service.
“At that time, there were about 13 buildings off 
campus that were being used by the University, 
because there was not enough space on campus,” 
LaPaglia says. “There was a need to safely trans­
port students to University sponsored off-campus 
apartments. Since that time, the number of Uni­
versity sponsored apartments [buildings] has 
dropped to five.” Shuttle usage has steadily in­
creased, however, he says, indicating that it is no 
longer being primarily used by off-campus Univer­
sity housing residents. “In 1988-89, we had 180,000 
riders. In 1992-93, we had 205,000 riders.”
“It does provide a service to people on campus 
who want to go grocery shopping in Oakland or 
Shadyside,” says LaPaglia. He says that in the 
past, Campus Police had not gathered detailed 
statistics on shuttle ridership, but that the depart­
ment was working on improving their methods of 
gathering data. LaPaglia says that they would like 
to find out “when the heaviest ridership is, how 
many people are riding, and where they’re going... 
We are continously trying to gather data as to what 
service the shuttle is providing.”
“Ninety-two percent of our riders are students,” 
says LaPaglia. “Twenty-one percent of the riders 
are undergraduates going to off-campus Univer­
sity housing. The majority ofthe riders are gradu­
ates and undergraduates going to private resi­
dences.”
One of the things LaPaglia continually hears is 
that the shuttle route should be expanded to ser­
vice Squirrel Hill. “Since I’ve been here, I’ve heard 
an interest expressed, especially by graduate stu­
dent organizations, that they would like to have 
the shuttle go to Squirrel Hill,” says LaPaglia. “It 
would be a very costly undertaking.
“What limits do you place on the shuttle?” 
LaPaglia asks. “If you expand it to Squirrel Hill, 
where do you expand it to next? Wilkinsburg? 
Monroeville? There are alternatives available for 
people living in Squirrel Hill that aren’t available 
for people in Oakland or Shadyside.”
Student Government President David Wolpert 
thinks the possibility should be investigated none­
theless. “I would support looking into extending 
the shuttle to Squirrel Hill. I think it’s definitely an 
issue worth looking into, and I think students 
should take the lead. It’s not enough to just say, ‘We 
want to have the shuttle go to Squirrel Hill.’ We 
need a hard proposal.” Sources inside student gov­
ernment hinted that a proposal is in the works.
Please see SHUTTLE, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993THIS JUST IN
Clinton ready to send 1,000 troops to Bosnia
WASHINGTON, September 24 (D J)
— Increasingly convinced that a peace 
' agreement may be reached in Bosnia 
next week, the Clinton administra­
tion is preparing to send thousands of 
U.S. troops into the region by the end 
of next month, The Wall Street Jour­
nal reported.
The centerpiece of the planned de­
ployment would be a high-profile “show 
of force” placement of troops in the 
Bosnian capital of Sarajevo. Among 
other things, the deployment would 
seek to distinguish the U.S. troops 
from the United Nations peacekeep­
ers now in the area, who operate un­
der relatively timid rules of engage­
ment.
Under a North Atlantic Treaty Or­
ganization peacekeeping plan that 
hasn’t been publicly released, most 
U.S. troops will be deploy ed in Sarajevo 
and the mountainous area to the south 
andsouthwestofit.towardtheAdriatic 
Sea and the Serbian border, an official 
on the Joint Chiefs of Staff said.
While the proposalhas been roundly 
denounced as unfair to Bosnian Mus­
lims, U.S. defense officials are sur­
prisingly optimistic about its viabil­
ity. The accord, which would partition 
Bosnia into three ethnic entities, must 
be agreed to by Bosnia’s Serbs, Croats, 
and Muslims.
In the view of Pentagon officials, the 
agreement is likely to produce a situ­
ation that isn’t militarily threatening, 
because it has the virtue of its defects. 
The Serbs, who have the upper hand 
militarily, win so much under the plan 
that they wouldn’t be tempted to re­
start fighting to win more. And, these 
officials continue, if the agreement is 
viable, then the U.S. commitment 
won’t have to be long and extensive. If 
it isn’t, the U.S. will curtail its deploy­
ment and avoid becoming deeply in­
volved.
Pentagon officials, worried about 
selling the mission to a skeptical Con­
gress, are now drawing up a formal 
statement of purpose and a funding 
plan for the deployment. The adminis­
tration plans to seek congressional 
approval before deploying any peace­
keepers. The debate over the Bosnia 
mission could rage for weeks, but time 
may be on the side of the administra­
tion because of the fear that the agree­
ment could fall apart while Congress 
fiddles doing irreparable damage to 
NATO and U.S. credibility.
To pave the way for selling the peace­
keeping plan, nearly all of the 
administration’s national security
team — including Secretary of State 
Warren Christopher, Defense Secre­
tary Les Aspin, and National Security 
Advisor Anthony Lake—went to Capi­
tol Hill yesterday afternoon to brief 
senior lawmakers.
Though the administration won cau­
tious expressions of support from some 
congressional leaders, it was warned 
too that it must seek authorization for 
both the deployment and funding.
The speed of the U.S. deployment 
will depend on how well the peace plan 
is observed, Pentagon officials say. 
The peacekeeping plan, prepared by 
NATO officers in Europe, calls for the 
signing of an agreement to be followed 
initially by the quiet deployment of a 
small advance party of communica­
tions specialists. As that happens, 
NATO will look for several key actions 
on the ground such as a separation of 
hostile forces, free movement of hu­
manitarian supplies, and withdrawal 
of artillery and other heavy weapons 
from front lines. Only when the cease­
fire is deemed “viable” will the U.S. 
fully commit its troops.
The more significant deployment 
would come on the day formal control 
of the peacekeeping operation is trans­
ferred from the U.N. forces now in the 
Balkans to NATO, according to the 
plan. At that point, the U.S. plans to 
conduct a deployment in Sarajevo of 
several thousand troops, probably from 
the Army’s First Armored Division. 
That “show-stopper” would be followed 
by a logistical buildup of about three 
weeks culminating in theplannedpeak 
number of 25,000.
Under the timetable set forth in the 
military annex to the proposed peace 
agreement, a full cease-fire would be­
gin seven days after the signing of the 
treaty. Then, about a week after the 
cease-fire kicked in, withdrawal of 
heavy weaponry would begin, and in­
fantry forces withdrawn with them 
would be confined to their barracks. 
About four weeks after the cease-fire, 
demobilization of those units would 
begin.
The NATO plan uses the peace 
accord’s military annex as a broad 
guideline but differs from it in signifi­
cant respects, a Pentagon official said. 
Most notably, the peace plan was de­
signed with U.N. forces in mind, while 
the NATO plan, calls for far more “ro­
bust” rules of engagement. Thus, U.S. 
troops will have a right not only to 
defend themselves but to use force to 
ensure that their directives are fol­
lowed.
1 llll
Demonstrators march for Yeltsin in Red Square
MOSCOW, September 26 (AP) — 
Thousands cheered Russian President 
Boris Yeltsin in Red Square today. And 
at least 10,000 people marched through 
downtown Moscow.
It’s the biggest demonstration yet of 
Yeltsin’s public support since he dis­
banded parliament last Tuesday.
Yeltsin waded into surging crowds in 
Red Square for a free concert by the U.S. 
National Symphony Orchestra. Its con­
ductor, former dissident Matislav 
Rostropovich, is a backer of Yeltsin.
A concert announcer urged “faith in 
the president and in Russia’s future,” 
and the crowd responded with hurrahs.
Later, pro-Yeltsin demonstrators 
marched downtown. A small band 
marched at the head of the procession, 
and demonstrators chanted Yeltsin’s 
name.
They carried Russian flags, pictures of 
the president and placards with slogans 
such as “Boris, You’re Right Again.”Mandela, Clinton call for lifting sanctions
WASHINGTON, September 24 (DJ)
— President Bill Clinton today recom­
mended lifting remaining U.S. economic 
sanctions against South Africa and said 
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown would 
lead a trade and investment mission to 
the country.
In a statement, Clinton welcomed Af­
rican National Congress (ANC) Presi­
dent Nelson Mandela’s call for the lift­
ing of economic sanctions against South 
Africa.
The call came after yesterday’s action 
by the South African parliament to cre­
ate a Transitional Executive Council 
(TEC) and today’s ANC support for the 
lifting of sanctions.
“We must now respect the judgment of 
the leaders of South Africa and move to 
lift our remaining economic sanctions,” 
Clinton said in a statement. “We will be 
taking steps necessary to permit lend­
ing to South Africa from the Interna­
tional Monetary Fund (IMF).”
“I welcome the introduction and pas­
sage of legislation in the Senate to lift 
the other remaining sanctions at the 
federal level, and hope the House can 
move rapidly on the legislation as well,” 
Clinton said.
“I also urge states, counties, and cit­
ies to move quickly to lift their sanc­
tions,” the President added.
Clinton urged private companies, in­
vestment fund managers, universities,
labor unions, and other U.S. entities to 
take advantage of opportunities for trade 
and investment in South Africa and to 
use their fullest talents to assist South 
Africa’s “historic transition to democ­
racy.”
In addition, Clinton said Brown would 
lead a trade mission to the country to 
explore business opportunities, particu­
larly with South Africa’s black private 
sector.
“We will offer an investment encour­
agement agreement and propose nego­
tiations for a bilateral tax treaty,” Clinton 
said. “We will consider the possibility of 
initiating a Peace Corps program in 
South Africa.”Biosphere crew emerges after two years
ORACLE, ARIZONA, September 26 
(AP) — The four men and four women 
who’ve spent two years under the glass 
dome of Biosphere Two have emerged.
Since September 26, 1991, the Bio­
sphere crew has lived in the sealed ter­
rarium-like structure. The men and 
women grew most of their own food and 
recycled most of their own air.
The crew members looked gaunt but 
triumphant. As they emerged from their 
mini-world of just over three acres, the 
crew members waved to a crowd of at 
least 2,500 reporters and well-wishers.
Crew member Mark Nelson called it 
an “extraordinary moment” that shows 
the sealed environment project has 
proved skeptics wrong.
Nelson spoke at a news conference 
after the crew emerged. He said despite 
having lived two years on a restricted 
diet, crew members are healthy and 
happy.Wofford can’t support trade agreement
PITTSBURGH, September 25 (AP) — 
U.S. Senator Harris Wofford (D-Pa.)told 
an appreciative audience of labor union 
members in Pittsburgh that he can’t 
support the proposed North American 
Free Trade Agreement because of its 
consequences for Pennsylvania.
The senator says the state has directly 
lost jobs to Mexico. The state and na­
tional economies are struggling and 
should be helped toward recovery before 
the trade deal is tackled.
Wofford spoke to several hundred dem­
onstrators at Point State Park at a rally 
organized by the Fair Trade Campaign 
of Southwestern Pennsylvania. Among 
the group were members of several labor 
unions as well as environmental and 
consumer organizations.
Also speaking against the trade pro! 
posai at today’s rally was U.S. Repre­
sentative Ron Klink, freshman Demo­
crat from suburban Pittsburgh.Leaflet warns of further violence in Israel
JERUSALEM, September 26 (AP) — 
A leaflet published by Islamic funda­
mentalists who oppose the Israeli-PaU 
estine Liberation Organization (PLO) 
peace accord warns of a wave of suicide 
bomb attempts.
The leaflet by Hamas and the much 
smaller Islamic Jihad vows there will bè 
more such operations against what it 
calls “the Zionist enemy.”
A car bomb went off prematurely to­
day in the occupied Gaza strip. Israel’s 
army says soldiers found the charred 
body of the Palestinian attacker in the 
bumt-out wreck. The army says it was s, 
botched suicide attack.
Arab reports say the dead man was a 
member ofHamas. Family members said 
he had prepared for his attack witK 
night-long prayer and fasting. His fa­
ther says the man had discussed mar­
tyrdom as a way of challenging the PLO- 
Israel agreement.Crews recover Amtrak wreckage from bayou
SARALAND, ALABAMA, September 
26 (AP) — Recovery crews are busy this 
morning trying to raise the last of the 
wreckage of Amtrak’s Sunset Limited 
which plunged into a bayou in Alabama 
last Wednesday.
A passenger car was recovered this 
morning and a locomotive is still under 
water. The Coast Guard has said that a 
third car was submerged, but now that’s 
not the case.
A Coast Guard spokesman says the 
work should be completed- today. Thé 
crews also expect to recover the coir 
lapsed portion of the railroad bridge.
Work on rebuilding the bridge has 
already begun. CSX Transportation, 
which owns the track, says it expects to 
have trains running over the route again 
by October 4.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc., and 
the Associated Press
AP News briefs supplied by 
WRCT-FM Radio
Layout by 
Jason TogyerCelebrate Tradition 
û Balfour Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring... a tradition of excellence since 1931!
September 30 through October 2
Thursday, September 30th in Baker Hall 
10:00-3:00 
Friday, October 1 in The Carnegie Shoppe 
10:00-3:00
Saturday, October 2 in The Carnegie Shoppe 
10:00-1:00
$35 depositBalfour*No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 19933
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
ûf PUre<ssrU p-t<h ow-nU re Urardnos PUrDU-t
Steven A. Shafer, associate professor of com­
puter science, has been named chair of the 
University’s Doctoral Program in Robotics. He has 
been associate director since the program’s incep­
tion in 1989 and was instrumental in formulating 
its curriculum.
The Robotics Doctoral Program is a four-to-five 
year course of study intended to educate a new 
generation of leading robotic scientists and engi­
neers familiar with all aspects of robotics and those 
experienced in integrating them. The curriculum 
includes perception, cognition, and manipulation, 
as well as integrated robot systems for manufac­
turing automation and autonomous mobile robots. 
Today, 60 students are enrolled in the program and 
six have graduated.
Shafer is a recipient of the School of Computer 
Science’s 1993 Herbert A. Simon Award for Teach­
ing Excellence.ûmul ûw-dw-t ree<U s<orph-Ui d<-ownpD h<DU<<s
Carnegie Mellon and Chatham College have 
announced a teacher training program in which 
students can complete their bachelor’s degree and 
requirements for secondary school teacher certifi­
cation at their respective colleges and a master of 
arts degree at Carnegie Mellon in five years.
Carnegie Mellon students will be able to obtain 
a master’s degree in one of the following areas: 
biology, chemistry, mathematics, English, French, 
German, Spanish, history, andpsychology. Courses 
taken in master’s degree programs are designed to 
provide substantial training relevant to the teach­
ing areas of secondary schools.
,r'U DU-h'-d< sd-dnsdnon-ps 1np sowré-UswnPs
Statisticians at Carnegie Mellon received four of 
the five Gertrude M. Cox Scholarship awards at 
the annual American Statistical Association meet­
ing. Donna Pauler, a PhD student, and Anna 
Legedza, a master’s student, each received $1,000 
Gertrude M. Cox Scholarships while Lara Wolfson, 
a PhD student, and Alyson Wilson, an alumna of 
the Statistics Department, received honorable 
mentions.
The Gertrude M. Cox Scholarship in Statistics 
was established in 1989 by the American Statisti­
cal Association’s Committee on Women in Statis­
tics and the Caucus for Women in Statistics to 
encourage women to enter statistically oriented 
professions. The scholarship is awarded annually, 
but this is the first year honorable mention awards 
were given.
Gertrude Cox (1900-1978) was a leader of a 
generation of statisticians from government, in­
dustry, and universities who waged a campaign to 
gain recognition of modem statistical methods as 
indispensable components of all serious quantita­
tive studies.
Compiled by 
FRANK MICHELS
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE _
Meeting of 21 September 1993
Roll was taken at 7:04 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:15 pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Alzona (SCS), Cameron 
(CIT), Cohen (SCS), DeRoss 
(MCS), Erives (M. at L.), Frey 
(CFA), Gannon (MCS), Goldman 
iH&SS), Holzman (CIT), Kwon 
KCIT), Langer (H&SS), Mc- 
Cullagh (Misc.), Morrow (CIT), 
Motley (CIT), Ortega (CIT), Saw- 
¦yer-Villers (CIT), Shah (M. at L.), 
Singh (CFA), Szudarek (MCS), 
Trexel (IM), Wallhausen (H&SS), 
;Wang(M. at L.), White (M. at L.).
Senators Absent: Bhatta- 
iharya (GSIA), Carter (CIT), 
Hamlin (H&SS), Haverkamp 
'«¡IT), Robe (GSIA).
; Approval of the Minutes:
:Change “were’’ to “was” in Old 
Business. Accepted as corrected.
• Audience Participation:
'None.
Special Business: Two peti- 
:tions were submitted this week 
and validated. JoeDeMasi(MCS) 
and Cheryl Gach (CFA) are now 
Senators.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler); Dennis 
Barrie’s speech was great. Mov- 
;ies this week: Touch of Evil, 
¡Thursday; Barbarella,Friday; 
Bikini Beach, Sunday. All mov­
ies are in DH 2210. The Earth­
worms, an alternative hypno-folk 
band, will be playing in the Skibo 
Ballroom Friday night.
SDC: No report.
! Greek Council (Demian 
¡Johnston): A number of things 
are going on in Greek Council.
; Delta Gamma raised over $1000 
;for Pittsburgh’s blind community 
with Anchor Clanker. The Inter- 
Fraternity Council participated 
;in a Student Affairs sponsored 
TIPS program. They learned how 
to recognize intoxicated individu­
als, recognize proper identifica­
tion, and some techniques for 
running a safe event with alcohol 
involved. Greek Council is also
discussing special recognition for 
local fraternities and sororities.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): USAC is accepting sug­
gestions for agenda items through 
this Thursday.
Student Affairs (Pat Hamed): 
Thanks to Senate for help with 
the Skills for Leadership work­
shops; it was a success. Ruth 
Szykman may be contacting 
Senators about joining the uni­
versity committees on discipline 
and academic review. A student 
was sent to the hospital last week­
end with spinal meningitis. All 
persons who may have been ex­
posed to it have been treated with 
preventive medication. It is be­
lie ved that the only people at risk 
are those who were at the Pi 
Lambda Phi fraternity house last 
Friday evening and Saturday 
morning. Any student with con­
cern should go to the health cen­
ter to discuss it with the staff.
President (Dave Wolpert): We 
met with Dr. Lowry. We were 
impressed with his response and 
his willingness to talk to us. He 
made suggestions for improving 
negotiations with University Li­
braries. After these talks, I think 
that the library should be opened 
until 2 am on all floors — if the 
administration will agree to that, 
we may let the issue drop. Al­
though there is a sit-in planned,
I am advocating not having a sit- 
in this week. We have already 
raised awareness and drawn at­
tention to the issue, therefore 
accomplishing the goals of the 
sit-ins. SafeWalk will launch on 
Monday, October 4. We still need 
morevolunteerescorts. Call422- 
1439 or email dw38 if interested 
in being an escort.
Treasurer (Dave Martin): 
None.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Brock 
Hamlin (H&SS) announced his 
resignation. I passed out a list of 
university committees with avail­
able spots. Go to your constitu­
ents and find people who would 
like to serve on these important 
posts. Nominations for univer­
sity committees are due Septem­
ber 25: Academic Review Board 
(6-12 members), Campus Ser­
vices Advisory Committee (2-4 
members), Design Review Com­
mittee (1-2 members), Health 
Services and Insurance Advisory 
Committee (4-6 members), Ryan
Engineering professor receives award from President Clinton
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Tom Kurfess, assistant professor of mechani­
cal engineering and engineering and public policy, 
has been named one of the recipients of the 
prestigious Presidential Faculty Fellowship 
(PFF).
Kurfess and 29 other instructors from institu­
tions around the country will receive the award 
from President Bill Clinton this Thursday in a 
ceremony at the White House Rose Garden.
The fellowship is admin­
istered by the National Sci­
ence Foundation and in­
cludes a 3500,000 prize that 
is administered over five 
years. The award is in­
tended to allow its recipi­
ents to undertake research 
projects and other academic 
activities. Kurfess says all
the activity is “really excit- ___________________
ing.”
“They called me up and 
told me... right after commencement, and it was 
really hard to find somebody to tell,” says Kurfess. 
“It was really wonderful. It was a good thing. I 
felt justified in what I was doing at CMU, both in 
collaborative research, teaching, and working 
with students.”
In addition to undergraduate teaching, Kurfess 
is also a faculty member in residence. For three 
years, he and his wife, Adrianna, have lived in 
Resnik House, and he jokes that he can often be 
seen eating at the Highlander Cafe.
“They chose me because I was young, and they 
figured I wouldn’t shock the students too much,” 
he says.
“[The University] is a community. That’s what
it’s all about,” says Kurfess. “People say I’m 
doing too much, I should be concentrating on 
things that will help me get tenure.”
Kurfess feels that one of the reasons he re­
ceived the award was because of his service to the 
University.
The PFF is awarded to young engineers and 
scientists who have been recognized for excel­
lence in teaching or research while on the facul­
ties of colleges and universities.
The NSF specifies that the grants may be used 
by the Fellows to fund “innovative research and 
teachingprojects, to es-
_______________________ tablish research and
teaching programs, 
and to pursue other 
academic related ac­
tivities.”
In addition, Fellows 
may be called upon by 
the government to con­
tribute “advice’andser-:
_______________________ vice.”
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ Kurfess says his job 
as a teacher is to help 
his students learn how to handle 'life in the real 
world.”
“In terms of education, there’s a whole lot more 
than what goes on in the classroom,” says Kurfess. 
“You have to spend time with the students. You 
have to find out how we can make life better for 
them.
“It’s not so much teaching the particular mate­
rial, but teaching people how to learn,” Kurfess 
says, “You have teach people how to adapt. You 
have to teach them how to look for the answers.”
Kurfess earned his PhD from Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology and joined CMU faculty 
in 1989. He specializes in precision systems con­
trol, quality assurance, and automation.
"In terms of education, 
there’s a whole lot more 
than what goes on in 
the classroom
— Tom Kurfess
Award Committee (2 members), 
Sexual Harassment Committee 
(2 members), Trustee Committee 
(4-8 members), Undergrad Aca­
demic Advising Award Commit­
tee (2 members), University Com­
mittee on Discipline (6-12 mem­
bers), University Parking Com­
mittee (2-4 members), Univer­
sity Student Affairs Council (2-4 
members), Vice President’s Stu­
dent Advisory Committee (6-12 
members), Undergraduate Aca­
demic Committee, Calendar Com­
mittee, and the Security Council. 
Send email to ss2p, or call x8- 
2115 or x2-3803 if interested in 
the committees.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Dawn 
Wallhausen): My office hours will 
be Monday and Tuesday from 
noon-1 pm, in the Senate office.
Campus Affairs (Tony 
DeRoss): Lowry wants to meet 
with Campus Affairs every so of­
ten to discuss campus affairs is­
sues. We will now be looking at 
placement of new bike racks on 
campus. There will be two new 
ones in front of Hunt Library, two 
new ones at Mellon Institute, and 
one rack which will be placed on 
recommendation of the Campus 
Affairs Committee.
Funding and Recognition
(Chris Morrow): We talked about 
the six groups which are over 
budget. We’re taking action on 
some of them.
There will be a mandatory 
meeting this Friday in Skibo 112 
for groups over budget: Pioneers, 
Forbes Gallery, Hockey Club, 
Rugby, Pugwash, Scotch & Soda. 
Each group must have a repre­
sentative at the meeting.
Public Relations (Jim Albert): 
There will be a meeting tomor­
row at 8:30 pm to discuss ideas 
and goals for the Public Rela­
tions Committee for this semes­
ter. Anyone with ideas is wel­
come to come.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): Next Tuesday we’ll have 
goal setting for Senate and com­
mittees. I’d like to see new Sena­
tors and members at large after 
the meeting.
Announcements:
• There are vacancies in 1IM,
3 GSIA, 2 Heinz, 1 MCS, 1 CFA,
2 H&SS.
• Orientation ’94 applications 
are available now in the Housing 
Office. Contact Tony DeRoss if 
you’re interested.
• Campus Affairs meets Tues­
day at 6:30 pm by the Senate 
office.
Meeting adjourned at 7:50 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER
Edited by 
FRANK MICHELS
Shuttle/Escort service improvements planned
SHUTTLE, from page 1
“PAT buses run from east to west, but very few of them run from 
north to south. People who make the choice to live in Squirrel Hil 
have other alternatives,” says LaPaglia. “I have had people tell me 
that when they look for off-campus apartments, they look for them 
at places accessible with the shuttle.”
“I agree with the administration [regarding of the expense o 
another shuttle route],” says Melissa Berridge, a chemical engineer 
ing senior and student supervisor and lead driver of Shuttle/Escort 
“But I think that starting a Squirrel Hill shuttle is a good idea from 
a safety standpoint and from a quality of life standpoint. I think mos 
students would be willing to pay a little extra to get a little extra.1
Berridge feels that access to Squirrel Hill via shuttle would have 
a number of benefits to the student body. She says that Squirrel Hil 
is widely perceived to be safer than Oakland and that prices there 
are cheaper than those in Oakland or Shadyside. “It would go a long 
way towards increasing the campus’ perception as to what the 
University is doing for them.”
LaPaglia says the University has made a number of significant 
improvements in shuttle service’ and more are on the way. “We 
expect a 45-passenger bus to be in service in the near future, which 
should help with the overcrowding. We are also getting a new Escort 
van.”
“The University is making a substantial effort to improve the 
services that we already provide at a substantial cost.” Rumors 
about service expansion “bother” him, says LaPaglia, “because we 
don’t want people to develop expectations that don’t appear to have 
hope of coming to fruition.”
“If the students on campus and who live in Squirrel Hill want 
shuttle, they have to come up with a reasonable proposal,” says 
Berridge. “Just saying ‘We want a Squirrel Hill shuttle’ isn’t going 
to make it happen.”
Correction..
In last week’s story, “DG 
holds charity Anchor 
Clanker,” the amount 
raised for charity was mis­
stated. Anchor Clanker 
raised over $1,000.
The Tartan corrects all 
known errors of fact. If you 
know of such an error, con­
tact Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Brendan McFeely at x8- 
2111, or write him in care 
of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
? ? ?
The London 
Theatre Program
of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE nndjhe 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
iStudy with Britain’s leading actors and directors for 
a semester or a year. A combination of acting classes, 
tutorials, master classes and performances immerse 
undergraduates in the British theatrical tradition.
,rU h<d-nés -ph -p -PPéno-dnrpl 1Und<\
Sw< crphrp Sw<-dU< EUrDU-tl Rrx Rûmu 
f-U-w c-1Uopoo ûréé<D<l 1 m<-h W-i 
RUrpxvnéé<l NY 10708-5999
Septmbr 3tp0mht
Information Session
? Monday, September 27
? 12:30- 1:30 p.m.
? Hamburg Hall, Room 1001
Come learn about student employment 
programs and career opportunities from 
John W. Shearburn, Foreign Service Officer
An Equul Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Expand shuttle service 
to include Squirrel Hill
Whether the University likes 
it, or not, Shuttle routes are serv­
ing a different purpose from 
what their creators originally 
intended. And as its users rede­
fine its focus, it’s important that 
the University listen to student, 
faculty, and staff demands and 
adapt the service to fill their 
needs.
We speak specifically of the 
shuttle routes, which currently 
serve Shadyside and Oakland. 
The routes were originally in­
tended to transport students 
safely back and forth between 
school and the various off-cam­
pus, University-owned housing 
facilities. However, shuttle rid- 
ership has increased even as 
the number of these facilities 
has dropped.
The reason, as most shuttle 
riders know, is that the service 
is now being used by students 
living on-campus and people liv­
ing off-campus in private resi­
dences. Students living in pri­
vate residences find it an eco­
nomical and safe means of trans­
port. Students living on campus 
are using it to fill basic needs, 
like grocery shopping, specialty 
purchases, and services not eas­
ily or cheaply available on cam­
pus.
Such services are available in 
Oakland and Shadyside, but 
each neighborhood, while cer­
tainly charming in its own way, 
presents certain problems to 
visitors. Oakland, the de facto 
center of college life in Pitts­
burgh, is no longer as safe as it 
once was, as the front pages of 
both this newspaper and The 
Pitt News reported last week. 
In contrast, upper-class 
Shadyside, while charming and 
tranquil, is frequently priced out 
of the range of most student 
budgets.
The solution, it would appear, 
is right in CMU’s backyard in 
Squirrel Hill. Squirrel Hill is 
the type of down-to-earth, 
middle-class urban neighbor­
hood whose broad range of ser­
vices and relatively safe streets 
meet student needs well. Since 
many students already live 
there, there should be a shuttle 
route that includes Squirrel 
Hill? In addition to providing a 
valuable resource for students 
on campus, such a route would 
offer a convenient means of 
transportation for students liv­
ing in Squirrel Hill to get to and 
from campus. Indeed, grad stu­
dents residing there have clam­
ored for such a service for years.
The problem is money, some­
thing Campus Police Chief 
James LaPaglia says that the 
University simply doesn’t have 
to expand shuttle/escort opera­
tions. He says that it would cost
a substantial amount to create 
a Squirrel Hill shuttle route. 
Instead, LaPaglia proposes that 
those finding it necessary to 
commute to Squirrel Hill use 
Port Authority Transit. That 
isn’t an attractive option, as 
anyone who’s ridden the over­
crowded 61C late at night can 
attest. It certainly doesn’t com­
pare to the safety that a CMU- 
operated shuttle for CMU people 
would provide.
We feel that there is a need for 
a campus shuttle route to Squir­
rel Hill, in the interest of better 
serving the Carnegie Mellon 
community and in the interest 
of safety. This need can be seen 
clearly in the fact of the current 
escort service’s efforts to ferry 
students to and from Squirrel 
Hill, without set routes.
However, we feel that those 
using such a service should be 
willing to pay to make it work. 
It seems to us that it should not 
be too difficult for those who 
intend to use the shuttle all 
semester to be assessed a nomi­
nal fee (perhaps under $10?).
After paying their fee, stu­
dents would receive a very vis­
ible sticker for their ID cards 
(this, of course, assumes that 
shuttle drivers are actually 
checking ID cards), or even a 
special laminated bus pass, 
which would enable them to ride 
the shuttle as they pleased. 
Faculty and staff would be eli­
gible to purchase “bus stickers” 
as well. A provision could be 
made enabling temporary bus 
passes to be purchased as well, 
for those who only use the 
shuttle occasionally.
In addition to the shuttle fee, 
we recommend stopping Escort 
service during certain lightly 
patronized periods. It seems 
feasible to curtail it at times 
when demand is low; for ex­
ample, from 5 am to 7 am on 
weekend mornings.
If the University community 
wants to see a Squirrel Hill 
shuttle route, we would hope 
that they would vocalize their 
concerns to the administration 
or express their support any 
proposal that is advanced. They 
had better do their homework, 
too; as Student Government 
President Dave Wolpert pointed 
out, simply saying “We need a 
Squirrel Hill shuttle” make it a 
reality.
In the light of the continued 
cutback of other University ser­
vices, expanding Shuttle to 
cover Squirrel Hill would be a 
good decision, consciously made 
by the University to create a 
safe, reliable, and affordable 
transportation alternative for 
Squirrel Hill residents, as well 
as those who live on campus.
Facts wrong in 
niches article
Editor:
There were nu­
merous factual er­
rors and misleading 
interpretations in 
your recent article 
[“CFA remodels niches,” 9/20], some so 
glaring that one would think even a 
cursory checking of facts could have 
picked them up.To set the record 
straight, here goes:
1. The word above the entrance to CFA 
is “CREARE” not “ACREARE.”
2. Lowry Burgess is no longer Dean of 
the College of Fine Arts.
3. The original architect of the build­
ing was named Henry Hombostel, not 
Harry.
4. The completion architects are not 
“Bruce Lindsey and Rosenthal,” as you 
stated but Bruce Lindsey and Paul 
Rosenblatt.
5. You state that the carvers “had to 
redraw them [their plans] three dimen- 
sionally.” This is not true; they needed 
two dimensional templates or molds of 
each element, which were produced for 
the carvers by the architects.
6. You state that “Fairplay decided that 
it was better to leave CMU students 
with accurate depictions of various tra­
ditional styles.” This is not true; it was a 
strategy that the architectural team 
derived from Mr. Purnell' -'dshes, not 
something Fairplay decideu 'elf.
7. To state that “The teau* -»ped 
through various books at Hunt L* By dry 
to find the pictures they wanted and 
electronically scanned them to produce 
plans,” is not only an oversimplification 
of one aspect of the work, it also makes 
the process sound arbitrary. It was not. 
Instead, the design team searched for 
the most representative examples of each 
period that would also fit the stone that 
was there. Scans were often used as 
underlays, but were always traced and 
refined to produce the final construction 
documents.
8. It is inaccurate to state that “the 
architects rushed frantically to produce 
the designs.” We were certainly busy, 
but our process was much more consid­
ered and measured than is implied by 
that statement.
9.1 would not characterize the dead­
lines as “stifling.” This quote is not at­
tributed, but I would be surprised if it 
came from any member of the design 
team or carvers. Deadlines are dead­
lines; sometimes meeting them is diffi­
cult, but that’s not news to anyone!
10.1 am also not aware of the admin­
istration telling anyone involved in the 
project that “we’ve got to finish a pillar 
in three weeks.” The administration has 
supported the completion of the project 
according to a realistic time frame, and 
never given such specific instructions.
It would be a shame if the campus 
community was misled about some ba­
sic aspects of the project, because of a 
hastily prepared article in The Tartan. 
There have certainly been enough accu­
rate articles written about the niches 
recently to which the writer could refer. 
Although no single error cited above is 
inexcusable, that’s their cumulative ef­
fect. The niches hold a significant place
in the University’s history. Telling their 
story accurately should be something in 
which we take special pride.
Paul Rosenblatt
Assistant Professor of Architecture
PiLam affirms 
stigmas
Editor:
Freshmen come 
to CMU with open 
minds, rarely ready 
to condemn any 
campus organiza­
tion. Unfortunately, 
one fraternity put up posters that af- 
firmednegative stereotypes. PiLam blew 
it by affirming the very stigmas they 
protest. Other fraternities have made 
the same mistake.
Eric Strauss, I have been to your fra­
ternity parties. Four weeks ago I at­
tended an evening social function at 
PiLam. One of the “polite, friendly, 
decent men who have plenty of compas­
sion for women and their rights” asked 
me, “Can you please go over to that girl 
and pretend to be a lesbian and hit on 
her?” How genteel. In fact, there are 
many PiLam party events that I or any 
woman that attends a PiLam party might 
talk to you about. Then again, what is 
the point if you do not question the 
actions of those who initiate offensive 
behavior?
Why use a sexually arousing picture of 
a female to attract (heterosexual) women 
to your parties? Your astute thesis was 
that “... the attack on the CMU fraterni­
ties is far more degrading to men than 
any advertisement could ever be to 
women.” Clearly it’s only offensive to 
boys who “think with their genitals.”
Frat boys often open their mouths 
without carefully evaluating their 
thoughts and consequently endup spout­
ing verbose babble — another offensive 
myth which recently became reality. 
Doug Bordick [President of Pi Kappa 
Alpha] claimed that Kris Hinrichs un­
fairly stereotyped fraternities, but her 
column merely described why she found 
the poster sexist; her point was to ex­
plain why she was offended. I’ll give you 
gentlemen a clue; she was trying to let 
you scholarly boys in on how some CMU 
women think. Surprise! You missed the 
point.
Strauss expounded upon the idea that 
fraternities do more than guzzle beer or 
chase empty-headed babes. But Hinrichs’ 
article focused on parties; the frat’s com­
munity service has no bearing on the 
disrespect they show women at parties. 
Good deeds done elsewhere do not ab­
solve fraternities of their obligation to 
treat women like human beings.
Furthermore, Cindy Crawford is not 
being exploited in her job as a 
supermodel. She is a beautiful woman 
with a keen business acumen, in control 
of her own employment. Rather, PiLam 
is exploiting her; would any woman want 
her face and body to be associated with 
the PiLam house?
Please keep in mind, the events that 
occur at fraternity parties are not al­
ways the actions of a brother or even any 
Greek male. In a situation where there 
is a diversity of individuals and evident 
inebriation, anything can happen. How­
ever, the presence of alcohol does not
excuse the behavior of those individuals 
toward women. Fraternities have a re­
sponsibility to avoid contributing to an 
environment in which women are ha­
rassed and raped, and must work to­
ward stopping this behavior in their 
houses, whoever the perpetrators are.
I urge Hinrichs and other members of 
the campus community to attend social 
functions because one can meet reward­
ing people. But not all social functions 
happen at fraternities. My constructive 
criticism is simply that sexist posters 
are not the most appropriate or effective 
advertising strategy, especially when 
extending a party invitation to females. 
And the best way to live down frat boy 
stereotypes is to stop reinforcing them 
with your actions.
Jill Denesvich
Mechanical Engineering, Senior
Donna Riley
EPP, Doctoral Student
Writer clarifies 
alcohol column
Editor:
This letter is in 
response to the col­
umn about under­
age drinking. [Fra­
ternities foster ille­
gal behavior, 9/20]. As the author of that 
piece, I feel it is my duty to clarify a few 
key points that have generated some 
questions and controversy.
The first point that I wish to make ' 
that this column was not written wii 
the intent to single out any person i 
group of people), or to generalize r 
characteristic or behavior pattern 
set of individuals. I did not desi1 
make any blanket statements abo’ ± 
fraternities or the people involv iuii 
the Greek system. Alexandre : nas
once wrote: “All generalizations are v an- 
gerous, even this one.” That statement 
is very true, and I offer my apologies to 
those who may have been offended acci­
dentally.
Secondly, I am not by any means anti- 
Greek. The fraternities (and sororities) 
have many good points, certainly not the 
least of which are the service and re­
lated programs that they provide to the 
community. Certainly one should also 
consider the sense of community that 
they provide within themselves for the 
brothers and sisters. They provide an 
outlet for many of the students on our 
campus and for that reason are cer­
tainly worthwhile additions to any col­
lege environment.
I received several calls and messages, 
all of which condemned the article on 
the basis of inexperience and lack of 
information. Unfortunately, they seemed 
to contradict each other, and for that 
reason it is difficult to derive specifics. 
There were some interesting points that 
I won’t bother to mention here because I 
am quite sure they will pop up in other 
letters.
I am not by any means, however, re­
scinding the point that was the main 
and most important thrust of the col­
umn. It is illegal for those under the age 
of 21 to drink, and that law (and any 
other law) deserves and demands re­
spect.
D.B. Krepps 
Freshman, H&SS
The Tartan’s editorial policy
The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan’s editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University com­
munity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter.
K
Letter to the Editor^ a
Letter to tho Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 19935
NRA members have penis envy
Matt Ball
If it wasn’t for penis envy, the National 
Rifle Association wouldn’t exist.
[Since penis envy is usually applied to 
the absurd male-ego-stroking theory that 
women feel castrated and wished they had 
a penis, a more accurate term would be 
penis insecurity.]
I discovered this connection between 
small penises andmembership in the NRA 
while watching the incessant whinings of 
members of this highly influential lobby. 
You never see a woman passionately de­
fending the second amendment, nor a fe­
male legislator swayed by the arguments 
(read: money).
But the real key to the gun/penis connec­
tion is the vehemence with which the lob­
byists and legislators argue for the protec­
tion of semi-automatic rifles and the re­
pair kits that can turn them into machine 
guns. If you look into the eyes of these 
„white males as they decry the attacks on 
cop-killer bullets, there is a passion that 
can only be tied to one of the two great 
drives of humanity — sex or food. Since 
none of these men seem to be starving, I 
can only assume that their obsession with 
a powerful phallic symbol — an instru­
ment whose sole purpose is power and 
killing — is caused by problems in their 
pants, hence their need to be puissant and 
potent in other ways.
What else could it be? If one looks around
our country today and sees ldds killing 
kids in school or other nations telling their 
citizens not to take vacations in the U.S., 
can one really believe that there isn’t a 
problem here? Obviously, not every coun­
try in the world has homicide as their 
leading cause of death among young men. 
No matter how many statistics Richard 
Little trots out saying that guns don’t kill 
people, common sense demands that we 
realize if we are to ever make a dent in the 
rising tide of violence, we have to grow up 
from our phallo-centric stage.
Look at the arguments offered in de­
fense of unlimited access to firearms. The 
most common is one of self-defense. How­
ever, I don’t know anyone who has pur­
chased any gun for this reason, let alone a 
large-caliber semi-automatic or an inex­
pensive, throw-away Saturday-Night Spe­
cial. I don’t know ho w a waiting period and 
background check would cause alaw-abid- 
ing citizen to feel less secure.
Which leaves hunters.
Ah, hunters. The moral and intellectual 
vanguard of our society. The activists 
whose greatest concern is defending their 
right to blow away boxed pigeons. The 
sportsmen whose greatest challenge is find­
ing new ways of killing defenseless ani­
mals. The naturalists whose love of cre­
ation involves buying the latest and great­
est technology with which to waste the 
woods. The justices who believe nibbling 
flowers deserves a death sentence.
Ah, hunters. Those concemedecologists, 
out to preserve the balance of nature. First 
they kill all natural predators who would 
have fed on the weak and sick. Next they 
increase the browse available to inflate
the number of game [sic] animals even 
further. Finally, to save these poor crea­
tures from a life of misery, the brave 
hunters kill the strongest, healthiest ani­
mals.
Ah, hunters. Ho w did the natural world 
survive without them? Where would the 
carrier pigeon, the buffalo, and dozens of 
exotic species be today without them? 
Who else will protect our god-given right 
to kill anything and everything weaker 
than us? What other way is there to be 
truly a man, free of the shackles of the 
icky feminine weaknesses of compassion 
and morality, other than to bond with our 
buddies over a burst of an innocent’s 
blood?
Ah, hunters. The truly honest of our 
society. When free of the gloss of the
NRA, hunters reveal and revel in the 
bloodlust that the rest of us hide in a 
neat, wrapped package in the “meat” 
department. At least the hunters have 
done their killing, blasting a hole in the 
body of a fellow animal, watching the 
struggle for life and the onset of death. 
At least those animals lived a life in the 
wild, instead of being captive-bred and 
caged for a short, miserable life.
Ah, hunters. At least they have the 
murder’s blood on their own hands, 
while we in our cowardice pay others to 
do our killing for us. But it takes no 
more strength to be callous and cruel 
than to be a coward.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in engi­
neering and public policy.
Ramsey Hong/ Tartan Art Editorforld must acknowledge PLO, Israel peace agreement
David Schwartz
These past two weeks have seen historic 
changes in the Middle East. The signing of 
a declaration of principles between the 
State of Israel and the Palestine Libera­
tion Organization (PLO) is a remarkable 
event. Two implacable foes have taken a 
courageous first step towards achieving a 
viable and lasting peace in this war-torn
region called the Middle East—a region 
whose very name evoked images and 
thoughts of war and terrorism. This 
image and mind-set has been shattered 
with the stroke of a pen and the shaking 
of hands. The prospects for a future of 
peace, marked by prosperous develop­
ment and growth may certainly lie ahead
for Arabs and Israelis alike. The future 
does indeed seem much brighter for both 
peoples, but there are numerous pitfalls 
which await this fragile peace. These 
dangers must be met courageously and 
with great diplomatic alacrity if this 
fledgling peace is to be developed.
Please see PLO, page 6
Letters to the Editor
Facts are 
legitimate
Editor:
The recent 
^column about 
Israel 
prompted sev­
eral com­
ments from 
the campus community. Let me 
¿state that I hope that the recent 
steps towards peace are wildly 
successful. It is long overdue!
Those who signed the group 
letter referred to previous “offen­
sive” columns. I suppose they 
jmeant mine. All facts in my col­
umn came from the UN, Amnesty 
International, Physicians for 
Human Rights, the U.S. State 
Department, and sources of simi­
lar caliber. The plain truth is 
¦¡that there are systemic human 
rights abuses in Israel. It is good 
they disagree with some Israeli 
actions! The question is if they 
did anything besides talk.
I am glad at Etan Diamond’s 
¦jSorrow at any civilian death, but 
am surprised at his short memory. 
He rightly accuses the PLO of 
lulling collaborators and of ter­
rorism. But pre-1947 Israeli na­
tionalists killed British officials 
^and collaborators, often with 
bombs which killed innocent by­
standers. The PLO is far worse, 
but Israel’s founders aren’t guilt­
less either.
Where would Israel’s economy 
- be without the billions the U.S. 
“nas given? There’s even a law 
that aid to Israel shall not be less 
than the amount they owe!
Responding to Shalom Lewis’ 
claim that he never heard any­
thing about torture — does he 
¦‘think governments advertise it? 
I ask him to write the human 
rights organizations I mentioned 
above. What about Mustafa 
Akkawi, whose death was linked 
to torture in an Israeli prison? 
Israeli General Security Services 
have admitted Akkawi was 
beaten. Isn’t beating torture?
Israeli atrocities weigh more 
heavily BECAUSE they have 
)
been victims, but both sides have 
blood-soaked hands. I hope that 
both sides admit their guilt in 
perpetuating the cycle of violence. 
Only by admission of atrocities 
on both sides can reconciliation 
truly occur. Otherwise resent­
ment over actions not admitted 
to may cause hatreds to fester 
again. After the progress made 
by Israel, the PL0, and the other 
Arab nations, this would be a 
great tragedy.
David Hunt 
PhD Student 
Mechanical Engineering
Column not 
researched
Editor:
While I am 
no fan of al­
cohol con­
sumption 
and am quite 
annoyed by 
the stupid, sotted behavior which 
occurs under the aegis of the fra­
ternity system, I am also not a 
fan of people who go off in a rant 
against the fraternity system 
without either researching some 
facts or stopping to consider 
whether the fratemties are not 
entirely to blame for the problem 
of underage drinking at CMU.
In his column [Fraternities fos­
ter illegal behavior, 9/20], D. B. 
Krepps believes that the exist­
ence of a dry rush legitimizes the 
alcohol consumption during the 
rest of the rush period. However, 
if Krepps had done a little re­
search, he would have found that 
before 1983 there was no such 
thing as a dry rush. The dry rush 
period was instigated in 1983 af­
ter some pledges at the now de­
funct Zeta Beta Tau fraternity 
consumed 40 shots of hard alco­
hol in quick succession in order to 
prove their loyalty and had to be 
hospitalized. As a result, the fra­
ternities wisely decided that dry 
rush was much preferable to no 
rush at all.
Krepps also asserts that “more 
police action is neccessary.” 
Again, if Krepps had done his 
homework, he would have known 
that in the fall of1987 the Liquor 
Control Board, without prior 
warningto Campus Police, raided 
the Delta Tau Delta and Pi Kappa 
Alpha fraternity houses, arrest­
ing over 130 people for underage 
drinking. This event was covered 
quite extensively in both The 
Tartan and the Student Union, 
not only because it was the first 
time this type of law enforcement 
spectacle had occurred, but also 
because the Cyert administration 
triedunsuccessfully to defend fra­
ternities as charity organizations 
and ended up looking foolish and 
irresponsible.
But even this sort of drastic 
action, while it might make all 
the Kreppses on campus flush 
with a sense of moral victory, 
merely refocuses the eye of Pro­
hibitive scrutiny on the fraterni­
ties instead of where it really 
belongs— the entire (underage) 
undergraduate community (and, 
if we really wanted to enlarge the 
scope, Madison Avenue, 
“eMpTyV” and youth media im­
agery in general). Only an idiot 
would assume that there is no 
underage drinking in dorm rooms, 
even though it is prohibited. In 
addition, every weekend there are 
private and semi-private parties 
off-campus where undergradu­
ates can drink their fill.
Those who wish to only perse­
cute the fraternities because they 
are the most visible hedonists on 
campus (this being their obvious 
and often only selling point to 
potential pledges and sex part­
ners) are taking the easy way 
out. Even if you were to outlaw 
alcohol in the Quad altogether, 
underage students would still find 
the means to obtain alcohol. It’s 
as easy as askingyour upperclass 
friend to walk down to the Uni­
versity Beverage Center for you.
I would also like to give Krepps 
a bit of advice — it would be wise 
to research your topics before you 
launch into the invective, as the 
fact that you have been attend­
ing Carnegie Mellon for only six 
weeks puts you at a distinct dis­
advantage when it comes to com­
menting upon CMU affairs.
Lenny Young 
Graduate Student 
Music
Column unfair 
to Greeks
Editor:
The article 
[“Fraterni­
ties foster il­
legal behav­
ior” 9/20] 
provides a 
hurtful and incomplete picture of 
Greek life. The universal accusa­
tions made in that column are 
damaging in their inaccuracy. It 
implicates the fratenities as ha­
vens for underage drinking. 
Greeks are not the only heavy 
partiers here. Writing sensation­
alist public consumption articles 
without attempting direct con­
tact with the subjects of the ar­
ticle is unfair and unproductive. 
This shows blatant neglect of 
hundreds of men and women, fel­
low students, whom the writer 
did not fully research.
I am president of a fraternity 
which has no alcohol at any events 
under any circumstances, 21 or 
not; nor do we haze by even the 
most liberal definitions. This is a 
local policy, based on our prefer­
ence, with no outside influences. 
We have operated this way for 
over four years. We are an equal 
part of the Greek system, yet col­
umns about the Greek system 
consistently ignore our practices. 
Anyone who makes universal 
claims about the illegal activities 
of all fraternities is making mis- 
representative generalizations. 
Anyone can come to our house at 
any time and find that we are 
strictly law-abiding, and other 
houses will tell you their prac­
tices.
The Greek system admittedly 
has some problems. No argument. 
So does every other entity on cam­
pus — that’s life. The Greek sys­
tem is working to better itself. No 
question. There are instances 
where individuals perpetrate 
moronic acts. There is no way to 
control this entirely, only to react 
with penalties after the fact. A 
bit of investigation would reveal 
that the Greek system has regu­
latory policies that are being en­
forced to a greater degree than 
popular opinion credits.
Unfortunately, it is difficult for 
the campus community to see 
what the Greek system is doing 
to better itself. The Tartan has 
been approached before concern­
ing a Greek events section. It has 
refused. A Greek newsletter for 
the campus community is com­
ing. Did you know that in the 
past year the Interfraternity 
Council has adopted a new Con­
stitution, ByLaws, social policy, 
rush policy, and judicial system? 
Greek Council and PanHelenic 
are also working hard as you will 
see after more time at CMU.
We are trying, but overnight 
results are difficult. I applaud 
constructive criticism, but public 
consumption articles complain­
ing about a system the writer is 
not part of hardly promotes 
change. It is sensationalist in 
style with no intention of commu­
nicating to Greeks. That approach 
asks that somebody “above” us 
give the system an enema from 
the outside. Greeks are not chil­
dren. We got into as good a uni­
versity as you did. We take the 
same courses (and I know my 
brotherhood has a high GPA). We 
deserve better than sensational­
ist, blanket stereotyping. People 
with serious constructive input 
should contact Greek officials. 
You can email me or consult 
bboards assocs.ifc or assocs. Greek 
Council for other people to con­
tact. We want a stronger system 
with a positive image. Columns 
like the one cited damage that. I 
ask for understanding and pro­
ductive communication of con­
cerns to the appropriate people.
Doug Brook 
President,
Alpha Epsilon Pi 
Secretary,
Inter-fraternity Council
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon's fd'h<pd N<1sP-P<U 
fnpo< 1906
Editor-in-chief....Brendan McFeely
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..........Michael Harris
News Editor....................Frank Michels
Forum Editor...............Andrew Spioule
Sports Ed.. Lubomir W. Kochanskyj
Features Editor..............Lauren Heinz
Diversions Editor.............Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor........Laura McClure
Magazine Co-Editors....Marni Borek 
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Almee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Editor.........................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor....................Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr..............Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr..................Keegan Folk
Copy Manager.........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed................Jason Togyer
Asst. Forum Ed................Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Ed................Eric Strauss
Asst Diversions Ed..................Tara Zane
Asst Production Mgr. Derek WahBa
Asst Art Eds.......................DeepaH Kakar
MarkPaat
Darkroom Manager.......Nathan Houser
Photo staff Manager.............Kevin Chen
Contributing Editors 
Megan Dietz, Dexter Kobayashl
Senior Staff 
Tony deFiglo, Daniel Frey, David 
Hunt, Janice McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Matt Ball, 
Mahua Dutta, Andi Francioni, Andy 
Glendinning, Tom Harper, Jason 
Heinlein, Mlcki Kochanskyj, Rich 
Kwiatkowskl, Declan McCullagh, 
Matthew Messner, David Scwartz, 
Jason Speckland, Steph Stine, 
Jennifer Turner, John Weber, Gary 
Wilson, Erik Witte, Kathy Wright
Comics
JeffeBoates, Matt Goldberg, Andrew 
Plotkln
Photo
Vlneet Agarwal, Andrew Flores, Kerry 
Hagan, Reid Hecker, Andrew 
McDermott, David Perry, Amy Sims, 
Jim Snyder
Darkroom 
John Confer, Tom Gilbert
Production 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, 
Brockett Horne, Jason Ma, Kate 
Smith, Jenna Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Anne 
Lopez, Ed Slavishak
Business
Christa Bower, Dan Goldstein, 
Richard Lin, Rose Mills, Olivia 
Raharja, Monica Roisman, Chintan 
Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Jennifer Barkin, Dave 
Bazelon, John Biggs, Allan Bourdius, 
James S. Brown, Zhuohau Cai, 
Eugene Chung, Sunanda Desai, Etan 
Diamond, Bassem El-Dasher, Edward 
Hayes, Eugene Hong, Sharona 
Jacobs, Markus Kassbohrer, Lisa 
Kruglak, D. B. Krepps, Josh Lederer, 
Carrie McDonough, Dizzy Murphy, 
Buck Neel, Nicole Nowitz, Eileen 
O'Shea, Eric Pettus, Kanda 
Runapongsa, RonakSinchaz, Carolyn 
Skarado, Margaret Stallings, Leanna 
Surina, Bethany Sutton, Roger Wang, 
Calvin Yao, Hyun Yim, Elizabeth 
Zamzbelli
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the 
University community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for the semester or academic year. 
The editorials appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of Individual cre­
ators. Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. Let­
ters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of 
the University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and Include the 
writer's address and phone number for verifica­
tion. Names will be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 
500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright ©1993 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board re­
serves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN If: 0890-3107.
Letter ta the Editar
Letter to 
the Editor
Pl
Letter to 
the Editor
Letter to the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon » 27 September 1993
War-torn region finally finds peace settlement
PLO, from page 5
Of great concern to both Yassir 
Arafat and peace-minded ele­
ments within the PLO are the 
Islamic fundamentalists which 
operate within the territories and 
abroad (i.e. Lebanon) and mili­
tant sub-groups of the PLO that 
function abroad, such as those 
based in Syria.
In one sense, we can see that 
institutional survival is of great 
•importance here in that Islamic 
fundamentalist groups such as 
Hamas and Hezbollah as well as 
militant factions of the PLO are 
desperately trying to scuttle the 
workings of a peace agreement 
that will conceivably spell the 
end of the cause which they have 
been fighting for. Given this as­
sessment, these organizations 
and factions will do everything in 
their power to derail the new
peace in order to survive and 
hence continue with their objec­
tives — the very destruction of 
the state of Israel.
However, with Israel and Syria 
(and presumably Lebanon as 
well) moving closer together to­
wards achieving a peace agree­
ment of their own, Syria and Leba­
non will reign in the terrorist 
organizations that operate within 
their respective countries.
It is in this arena that U.S. 
diplomatic action will prove nec­
essary to persuade an untrust­
worthy Haffez al-Assad of Syria 
to buckle down and recognize Is­
rael and establish a lasting peace.
In a matter of months, Israel 
and Syria will begin a more sub­
stantive dialogue now that the 
“ice has been broken” vis-a-vis 
PLO-Israeli mutual recognition. 
However, the more daunting chal­
lenges that face the new peace 
come from within.
Israel has been in possession of 
the Gaza Strip and West Bank 
since June of 1967 when Israel 
defeated Jordan, Syria, Lebanon 
and Egypt in six days. To be sure, 
many Palestinians that lived in 
what is now Israeli proper fled 
when Israel was established in 
1948, many others fled from the 
West Bank and Gaza in 1967 to 
Jordan and later to Lebanon. It 
is interesting to note that the 
PLO was created in 1964, three 
years before the 1967 war when 
Israel captured Gaza and the 
West Bank.
One should not be fooled by 
historical revisionists as to the 
intent and goals of the PLO from 
its inception. It was not created 
to liberate Palestinians from the 
clutches of the Israelis but to
“liberate” the whole of what is 
now Israel from Israelis. With 
an environment such as this, one 
can see why Israel has been so 
heavy handed in dealing with 
the PLO and Palestinians in the 
territories.
One need only read the Pales­
tinian National Charter (adopted 
in 1964 and revised in 1968) of 
the PLO which calls for the de­
struction of Israel.
It is very easy to fall prey to 
revisionist versions of history 
which completely lack a real un­
derstanding of the complexities 
of the Middle East.
As for the Palestinians, they 
are about to embark on wholly 
new territory for they will now 
have to govern themselves in a 
democratic fashion, operate and 
maintain the necessary institu­
tions for running a democratic
society and provide the leader­
ship that a restive and under­
standably angry people desper­
ately want and need.
As Rashid Khalidi, advisor to 
the Palestinian delegation to the 
Middle East peace talks, has so 
succinctly stated in addressing 
the coming difficulties, “[It] will 
depend mainly on whether the 
Palestinians can govern them­
selves democratically; achieve 
rapid economic growth; create a 
basic infrastructure; provide jobs, 
housing, schooling and proper 
medical care; and raise the abys­
mal standard of living in the oc­
cupied territories, especially the 
Gaza Strip. Success in these do­
mains would isolate and silence 
those who would violently dis­
rupt the accords.”
Furthermore, a greater push 
forward would be to allay the
fears that have been part of the 
Israeli psyche since 1948, and 
this can be accomplished by Arab 
and non-Arab state recognition 
of Israel.
In addition, it is necessary to 
lift the reprehensible economic 
embargo against Israel. Once Is- 
rael feels secure from within it 
can readily accept Palestinian 
self-rule in the territories, of 
course this must be juxtaposed in 
peaceful coexistence between Is­
raelis and Palestinians.
The future does seem brighter. 
With caution, patience, and sin­
cerity can the many difficulties 
mentioned be overcome and the 
rejectionists to this historic peace 
accord be shunted aside.
David Schwartz is a fifth year 
senior who is majoring in politi­
cal science and economics
Clinton’s policies resemble socialism of Eastern Europe
Ronak Singhal
Wouldn’t it be great if all people in America had 
the same amount of wealth? Wouldn’t it be great if 
people were paid equally no matter what their 
skills? W ouldn’t it be great if all people could afford 
to buy the exact same products and services?
If you answered “yes” to the above questions, you 
probably would’ve been considered a communist 
or, at the least, an extreme socialist 20 years ago. 
But you say, “Aren’t those the guiding principles of 
the current presidential administration that tries 
to pass off as upholders of democracy?”
That’s right. The policies of Bill Clinton and his 
administration have moved far left from the de­
mocracy that America was based on to the social­
ism that was practiced in Eastern Europe during 
the Cold War.
Some of you might say, “But Clinton isn’t a 
communist; he’s just trying to help America.” How­
ever, it’s his new programs that could probably 
pass in most textbooks as definitions of that seem­
ingly outdated political system. Look at some of 
the social service programs. Basically what this 
amounts to is a redistribution of wealth. One of the 
principles in communism is that people be finan­
cially equal, regardless of how hard they work.
Many people supported Clinton in his pursuit to 
raise taxes because they felt that the rich were 
getting offtoo easy. Yet, the rich are often the ones 
that create jobs by opening small businesses and 
using their capital to hire more workers. Clinton’s 
plan was nothing but an attempt to equalize the 
income of all people in America.
¦ What would result if his plan were totally suc­
cessful? This country would probably come to a 
halt. Whether they work hard and take risks with 
their money in hopes of earning or if they sit at 
home all day watching Wheel of Fortune, people 
would receive the same income. Some might say 
that this is an extreme case that will never happen. 
That’s probably what they were saying when the 
government was going to control the largest pas­
senger railroad company in the country, it would 
force cable companies to carry certain channels, 
and the government would force insurance compa­
nies to cover people, even if it were a bad financial 
decision.
This leads to the national health care plan that 
the President presented on Wednesday. The plan 
forces independent companies to cover all people, 
no matter what the financial liability. Clinton said 
that it would be “illegal” for them to turn people 
away. But insurance is not a right, it’s something 
they earn, like enough money to buy a car. Yes, the 
health care industry does need reform, but forcing 
companies into decisions that are not financially 
sound goes against the very principles of a market- 
based economy with a non-intrusive government.
In fact, there are many facets of the plan that are 
totally opposite of the market driven economy. 
Clinton claims that there will be no price controls, 
but he also says that insurance companies will not 
be allowed to raise costs any further than the rate 
of inflation coupled with the rate of population 
growth. That sure seems like price controls, and 
price controls eliminate the free market system 
that has provided the Americans with the best 
quality product at the lowest possible price.
Finally, the health care plan is another attempt 
by the President to equalize the standard of living 
among all Americans. Again, this is bad because it
will eventually produce a negative incentive for 
people to work. In the past, the harder a person 
worked and the more skilled he was, the more 
money he could expect to earn. If he wanted some­
thing that was out of his price range, he would work 
harder in order to gain more money. Because of 
this, America became a successful industrialized 
nation. Now, Clinton threatens to take this incen­
tive awayfromthe American people, and give them 
a state mandated plan that will lead to more 
intervention in their lives.
America has always been considered the bastion 
of democracy in the world. Ironically, it now ap­
pears that as many nations move towards democ­
racy, America has a leader who wishes to install 
plans much like the ones in the former Soviet bloc. 
America used to be a place where all types of people 
had an incentive to work hard and improve their 
standard of living. This President threatens to 
take it all away by blocking the market-driven 
forces that led our nation to becoming a world 
superpower as he seeks to create the next bastion 
of communism.
Ronak Singhal is a freshman majoring in electri­
cal and computer engineering
LA
FILIPINIANA
Post Gazette Rated ****
DINNER SPECIAL
Pancit Molo (Filipino Wonton Soup) 
2-Lumpia Shanghai 
1-Eggroll 
1-Piece Chicken Adobo 
Fried Rice/Stir-Fry Mixed Veg. 
Sampling of three native desserts 
Tea or Coffee $11.95
Specializing in
Gourmet, All-Natural Cuisine of the Phillipines
Enjoy Outdoor Dining in Our Herb Garden!
|------------------------------------------1I This Coupon good . 
I for one dinner at , 
1/2 price
I^Offer good thru 12/30/93 j
5321 Butler Street
Lawrenceville Reservations Accepted
781-8724 Feel Free to Bring Your Own Wine 
Open Wed through Sun from 5 pm-10 pm
Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad 
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472
SYRACUSE ABROAD
Something to write home about!
0 Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, 
France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain
• Prior foreign language not always necessary
• SU credit
• Field trips/travelling seminars 
0 Internships
0 Study for a semester, a year, or a summer
• Home or limited apartment spaces
HOMECOMING1993STUDENT
EVENTS
SpmougO ch2eBtp a
6 - 10pm
6/8/10/Mid
7:30pm
Candlelight Dinner and Concert 
(tickets available at Skibo Desk)
AB Film: Hot Shots Part Deux
Carnegie Museum, 
Hall of Architecture
Doherty Hall 2210
IVCF Production “The Accounts of Luke” Adamson Wing 
(tickets available at Skibo Desk)
3u2lpougO ch2eBtp f
9 - 10:30am Homecoming Seminars
10am Head of the Ohio Crew Races
11:30am - 1pm Picnic with Roving Performers, Face Painting,
and Pumpkin Carving/ Painting — Music provided 
by the Kilte Band and Bagpipe Band 
(Free with Student ID)
Noon - 2pm Author Signing by distinguished
Carnegie Mellon Faculty
Noon - 5pm Open House at Tartan Newspaper Office
1:30pm Parade of Reunion Classes
2pm CMU Tartans vs Allegheny College Gators
4:30 - 5:30pm Kiltie Band Reunion
5pm Homecoming Happy Hour for Lesbian, Gay,
and Bisexual Alumni
6/8/10/Mid SDC Film: Sommersby
7:30pm IVCF Production “The Accounts of Luke”
(tickets available at Skibo Desk)
9:45pm Buses Depart for SDC Clipper Ship Dance
10:30pm SDC Clipper Ship Dance
Posner Hall, Cooper Auditorium
Clemente Park
Cut (Highlander Café if rain)
Baker Hall, Bookstore
Skibo 50 
Cut
Gesling Stadium
Skibo, Faculty Lounge
New York, New York 
5801 Ellsworth Avenue
Doherty Hall 2210
Adamson Wing
Skibo Lot
Station Square Dock
Col egmrisc ram ntrafscw foairfi its hy'po vadolSri'oa ,scy ri x8-2107.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Men’s soccer has huge week
S<-t U-pk<h 10dw np ufA np Dnvnsnrp IIIl pr1 6-0
By LUBOMERW. KOCHANSKYJ
fartan Sports Editor
It was a very good week for the 
Carnegie Mellon University’s men’s 
soccer team. The team posted three 
victories, outscoringtheiropponents 
by a combined score of 17-0.
Tuesday’s 9-0 victory over 
LaRoche College started the suc­
cessful week. Juniors Alex 
Amezquita and Chuck Kuba, and 
senior Basal Ramzy each tallied two 
goals. Senior Mike Brazinski, and 
freshmen Nick Moons and Taimoor 
Labib each had one goal apiece. The 
shutout was shared by all three 
Tartan goalkeepers, seniors David 
Shapiro, Dan Warren, and sopho­
more John Moran.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso was 
satisfied with the team’s perfor­
mance against LaRoche, especially 
the play of Kuba.
“I’m pleased 
with Chuck 
Kuba who 
played for Pat 
Lucignani [in­
jured last week 
against Wash­
ington Univer­
sity]. He’s very 
steady and able 
to come right in 
and play. He 
didn’t play the 
first two years 
at Carnegie 
Mellon. He 
gives us a little 
more depth.”
Graduate student John Stlvorlc battles Waynesburg linemen for possession in Friday’s 3-0 victory.
Despite the team’s thrashing of 
LaRoche College, and Waynesburg 
College 3-0 three nights later, 
Gaudioso didn’t let the lopsided vic­
tories affect his judgement.
“It is hard to gauge how good we 
are against LaRoche and
Waynesburg. But we’re not taking 
anyone lightly. We are going at it 
one game at a time.”
Friday night’s win over 
Waynesburg was led by Brazinski 
with two goals and junior Vince 
Russell with one. Warren recorded 
the shutout in goal.
The Tartans finished out the week 
with an afternoon game at Gesling 
Stadium. In a blustery, windy day 
which saw the goal get blown over, 
the men of Carnegie prevailed with 
a 5-0 victory. The one blemish on 
the day’s performance was a knee 
injury sustained by freshman 
midfielderTom Layton. Layton, who 
‘ has tallied eight points this season 
(3 goals, 2 assists), was injured right 
before Gaudioso tried to substitute 
for him.
‘We were waiting for a stop in 
play so we could get him out of the
Senior defensemen Michael Brazinski shoots.
Junior midfielder Vince Russell strikes the ball.
Association of 
America. This is a 
just reward for 
their 6-0 start, 
and 2-0 in the 
UAA which in­
cludes last week’s 
3-1 upsetofhighly 
ranked Washing­
ton University of 
St. Louis.
Gaudioso had 
mixed feelings 
about rankings. 
It hurts us out­
side the UAA be­
cause teams will 
be especially 
ready for us. In 
the UAA, there 
could be up to five 
teams in the top 
20, so it isn’t as 
big a deal.”
The team is 
faced with their 
hardest competi­
tion so far when 
they travel to New 
York and Atlanta 
to take on New 
York University 
and Emory Uni­
versity. The Tar­
tans beat both op­
ponents last sea­
son, defeating 
NYU 3-1 and 
Emory 2-0.
“The NYU game 
will be okay. They 
play on artifical 
turf. Emory will be
w/Tartan Photgrapfter 
Senior defensemen Michael Brazinski 
catches up to the ball against Waynesburg.
game,” said Gaudioso. “The key 
is to keep everyone healthy. 
We are expecting Pat 
[Lucignani] back this week­
end.”
Against Allegheny, the Tar­
tans were faced with a more 
physical opponent than they 
have encountered all season.
“The two things that worried 
us in the game was these guys 
were very physical, and the 
wind was unpredictable,” said 
Gaudioso.
Leading the scoring for 
Carnegie Mellon was junior 
Jeff McJunkin with two goals. 
Kussell had one goal and two 
assists, Moons and Brazinski 
added one goal each, and 
Amezquita was credited with 
an assist. Shapiro recorded the 
shutout.
This week, the team has been 
rated 10th in the NCAA Divi­
sion III, and second in the Mid- 
Atlantic Region poll conducted 
by the Intercollegiate Soccer
tougher because of the heat and natu­
ral grass. It is tough to play two games 
in a weekend and have all that travel­
ing to do,” said Gaudioso.
Sunday’s victory over Allegheny Col­
lege gave Gaudioso the 150th win of 
his career. His overall record now 
stands atl 50-84-21. At Carnegie Mel­
lon he is 116—62—14.
The team has also set a new school 
record with its sixth straight victory, 
and they have won 12 out of their last 
14 games dating back to last season.
Gaudioso was very modest when I 
asked him about the team’s success.
“It means a lot to me that we won a 
lot of games. They didn’t come easy, 
we earned them.”
Graduate student John Stivoric, a 
defenseman, was honored by the UAA 
last week as its Athlete of the Week.
In the 3-1 upset of Washington Uni­
versity, Stivoric helped turn back 13 
shots and five comer kicks,and scored 
a goal.
Last week, Shapiro was honored as 
UAA Athlete of the Week for his two 
recorded shutouts.
Football rallies past Juniata, Allegheny next
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
When Carnegie Mellon’s football team took its 
undefeated record and national ranking to Chuck 
Knox Stadium in Huntington, Pa., to take on the 
winless Juniata College Indians, the team was 
looking for a strong tune-up before their big game 
¦) this Saturday against another nationally ranked 
school, Allegheny College. While Juniata gave the 
Tartans a good fight, jumping out to a 14—0 lead 
before the end of the first quarter, CMU rallied 
back and posted an easy 29-14 win.
The victory improves the team’s record to 4—0
- and sets up this Saturday’s contest against Alle­
gheny College. The 2 pm game, CMU’s Homecom­
ing, will be the toughest remaining test for the 
Tartans in their quest for a national playoff berth.
Less than three minutes into the game against 
Juniata, however, the Tartans’ dreams of an unde­
feated season seemed in jeopardy.
With the team forced to punt after their first 
possession, senior offensive lineman Dave Ekem’s 
snap to senior punter John Knutson bounced in the 
| dirt, and the ensuing fumble was recovered by 
Juniata sophomore Kyle Sweitzer. Three plays 
Water, junior quarterback Wade Kurzinger found 
junior wideout Matt Davidson in the end. zone for 
the first points Juniata had ever scored against 
Carnegie Mellon (the Indians were shut out in both 
previous contests). Sophomore Andy Lowery’s kick 
made the score 7—0 for the Indians. 
y After CMU had to punt the ball away on its next 
possession, Juniata drove 72 yards on 12 plays,
capped by freshman running back Jim Rivello’s 
nine-yard romp into the end zone. Lowery’s kick 
gave Juniata a 14-0 lead.
“They got our attention early,” CMU head coach 
Rich Lackner said. “I was very impressed by their 
first quarter. They have some weapons. Rivello did 
a fine job. He ran hard and took some shots. Thank 
goodness we fell behind early in the game [as 
opposed to late], because we didn’t change our 
game plan. We have some veteran kids, and they 
kept their composure.”
Rivello, who had gained 86 yards on the ground 
this season as the backup to junior Tom Dworsky, 
got the start when Dworsky, the Indians’ leading 
rusher and kick returner, quit the team during the 
week. Rivello finished with 20 carries but gained 
only 36 yards, 28 of them in the first half, with the 
nine-yard run his long for the day.
Carnegie Mellon finally crossed the Juniata 50 
yard line with 3:30 left in the first period, but the 
Tartans faced a fourth down on the Juniata 10 yard 
line. They lined up in field goal formation, but 
faked the kick, and sophomore running back Mike 
Mathias lofted a pass into the end zone. Senior 
tight end Mike Shirey and senior fullback Brian 
Horton went up for the ball but bumped slightly, 
and Shirey could not hang on to the ball.
“The first long drive, when we didn’t score, that 
still re-established our confidence,” Lackner said.
After the Tartans’ defense held Juniata to three 
downs and out, the offense drove 34 yards on eight 
plays, capped by graduate student Fred Harding’s 
23-yard field goal, to put their first points on the 
board, making the score 14—3 for Juniata.
As the offense rallied back, the Tartan defense 
made sure the Indians got nowhere, holding them 
without a first down from Rivello’s touchdown run 
until the second quarter was almost over.
“I think maybe our defense missed the bus,” 
Lackner said jokingly after the game. “We didn’t 
execute early.”
Junior comerback Steve Voytovich led the Tar­
tan defense with four tackles and four assists, with 
one interception. Senior linebacker Jeff Blue had 
four tackles and three assists, and senior line­
backer Chad Wilson, last week’s UAA Defensive 
player-of-the-week (10 tackles, six assists against 
the University of Rochester), had three tackles and 
three assists. Sophomore linebacker Mark 
Kasperowicz had the lone sack in the game, and 
two defensive backs, senior Jerry Fuller and junior 
Jacob Steele, each had an interception.
^Meanwhile, the Tartans took advantage of a 
Juniata mistake to gain ground on the Indians. 
After Harding’s field goal, Rivello fumbled the 
ensuing kickoff, and CMU senior Jeff Gregor re­
covered the ball on the Juniata 27. Six plays later, 
junior halfback Nick Bush, getting his first real 
game action of the season, took the ball nine yards 
on a reverse for CMU’s first touchdown, cutting the 
lead to 14—9. The Tartans went for two points on 
the conversion, but junior quarterback Chris Dee’s 
scramble came up just short, as he was pushed out 
of bounds on the goal line.
After neither team could score on its next posses­
sion — Fuller intercepted Kurzinger, but the Tar­
tans were forced to punt—Kurzinger underthrew 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 8
Women’s 
soccer at 5-1
Beat Div. I Robert Morris 
6-0, Hiram College 5-0
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The CMU women’s soccer team picked up a .. 
pair of wins this week, running its record to 5—
1 on the season. The team defeated Division I ^ 
opponent Robert Morris College, 6-0, then 
defeated Hiram College, 5-0.
In the Robert Morris game on Wednesday, , 
sophomore Nicole Poisson tallied a hat trick,,,, 
and senior Diantha Korzun, junior Christina 
Isaly, and freshman Courtney Spence tallied 
the other goals. Freshman goalkeepers Jill \ 
Weber and Katherine Morrison picked up the 
shutout.
“Robert Morris is a second year varsity Divi­
sion I program,” senior co-captain Rachel Bourn 
said. “Although we dominated our match 
against them last year, we weren’t sure want to . 
expect. We went into the game strong, with a ' 
lot of momentum coming off a series of wins 
[two consecutive]. Robert Morris lacked in skills . 
but not determination or physical strength. 
They played hard and did a good job at not 
making things easy for us, but we kept working ' 
and adjusting and the goals kept coming.” 
Robert Morris fell to 0-8 with the loss.
Weber and Morrison also tallied a shutout ‘ 
against Hiram, as Korzun and Isaly each tal­
lied two goals, and freshman Marla Spontak 
added one. ’:
“Hiram was another team we weren’t sure * 
what to expect from,” Bourn said. “Their pro- '¦ 
gram has improved, but we came out on top. It 1 
took us a little while to adjust to the grass field 
and get settled into our style of play.”
The Tartans posted the 20th win in their' ' 
three-year history against Robert Morris and ' 
now have a four-game winning streak since 
falling to Case Western Reserve University in 
their second game of the year.
The team has a pair of tough contests coming 
up this week. On Wednesday, they play Seton 
Hill College, a team they have never beaten, 
and on Saturday, they will try to pick up their 
second-ever UAA win against Emory Univer- ; 
sity in Atlanta.
The team is on the road for its next five 
games, returning home October 15 to play 
Slippery Rock University at 7:30 pm.
The team then travels to Oberlin College on 
October 17, before returning to Gesling Sta­
dium to battle Bethany College on October 20. 
Gametime is 7:30 pm.
The team then faces UAA rivals Rochester 
and Brandeis on October 22 and 24.
Men run to win at 
Dickinson Invite
Langer wins, Baustert 
fourth, women finish sixth
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The CMU men’s cross country team took first 
place at the Dickinson College Invitational on 
Saturday, with senior Jim Langer taking first 
place.
Langer set a new course record at the Carlisle 
school, finishing the course in 26:32. Sopho­
more Matt Beam finished two seconds behind 
his teammate to take second in 26:34. Fresh­
man Josh Greynolds was sixth in 27:02, and 
sophomore Mike Rea was one place behind him 
in 27:10. Sophomore Scott Moore was the only 
other Tartan in the top 20, finishing 17th in 
27:40.
A pair of Division II schools, Millersville and 
Kutztown, finished second and third. CMU 
had 33 points, Millersville had 34, and 
Kutztown had 62. Dickinson was fourth, West­
ern Maryland fifth, Catholic University sixth, 
and Marywood College was seventh.
Sophomore Missy Baustert led the women’s 
team, finishing fourth in 19:17. Freshman 
Becky Buchheit was 20th in 20:30, the only 
other runner to finish in the top 20 for CMU. 
Rounding out the team’s top five was senior 
Cynthia Kolanowski who finished 33rd with a 
time of 21:21. Sangita Jenwala, a sophomore, 
was 43rd with a time of 21:49. Senior Jody 
Piccolo finished right behind her in 45th place 
with a time of 21:50.
The women’s team finished sixth at the event. 
Millersville won with 29 points, Shippensburg 
and Washington & Lee tied for second with 90, 
Dickinson was again fourth with 91 points, 
Kutztown was fifth with 117, CMU was next 
with 125, and William & Mary finished sev­
enth with 178 points.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993
Athletic Director aggressive on academics, athletics
The Gym Rat
by Lubomir W. Kochanskyj
. Dr. John H. Harvey is the Director of Athletics 
and Physical Education for Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity.
Now in his fourth year at CMU, Harvey has 
settled into a very high profile position, directing 
operations and staffing of the athletic program, 
r. At a recent women’s soccer game, I had to oppor­
tunity to speak with him about the position of 
athletic director and the responsibilities associ­
ated with it.
Q: What do you like and dislike about 
Carnegie Mellon University and the Athletic 
Department?
A: The academic reputation is one of the things 
that attracted me to this job here. The great diver­
sity of the students is also very attractive. The 
spectrum of students from the right to the left, and 
the caliber of students here is very special.
The biggest negative is the lack of facilities 
across the board. Now we have the new stadium, 
but we lack adequate indoor facilities. It figures 
against a lot of things we want to do.
Q: What are your feelings on the new Uni­
versity Center?
A: The plans for the University Center were 
pretty hot when I came here. Other than swim­
ming, the center isn’t going to help the varsity 
programs.
' In other areas like recreation, it will indirectly 
help because more students will use the facilities 
at the center. There will be a little easier access to 
the gym for the varsity sports for their practice 
time. We won’t have to work quite as tightly to fit 
everyone in there [Skibo Gymnasium].
It is difficult when you design a facility that is 
designed appropriately for the student body and 
Student Affairs, as well as recreation and sports. 
In combining the two things in the same building, 
there are tilings that you lose on both sides.
Regardless, it’s still going to have a big effect on 
the quality of student life.
Q: Are there any plans in the works for a because the population is from all over, and be- 
new athletic complex? causeitis a trend in college sports. Wewanttokeep
A: Not new. There is continuing talk of the intramurals dynamic enough so students stay in­
renovation of the Gym. We have the plans which terested. We just can’t keep sitting on the same 
have existed for a long time. Probably every month stuff year after year and figure the students’ inter- 
we have talks to get the renovation project on the est is going to stay the same year after year, 
list of projects. Then it works its way up the list.
Also, [we need to determine] what people we need 
to go to for funding. The renovation will cost some­
where between six and eight million dollars.
Q: How successful do you think you will be 
in getting this project approved?
A: I think most of the people appreciate that 
there is an awful lot lacking which the University 
Center won’t be accommodating. I don’t know how 
highupthis project ranks with other projects. I can 
see the deteriora­
tion of other 
buildings and I 
know the labs 
need serious 
work. If a poten­
tial student saw 
that we didn’t 
have strong ath­
letic facilities, 
and even if we 
satisfy all the aca- 
demic areas, 
there are other 
schools that could 
satisfy their aca­
demic needs, and 
provide some of 
the recreational 
things that we 
don’t have. I’m 
sure that is a fac­
tor in the number 
of students who 
decide to come 
here and the re­
tention of stu­
dents.
Q: Could baseball be made a varsity sport 
instead of its current club sport classifica­
tion?
A: Baseball is a sport that could go well here if we 
had access and space for a field. I can see in the 
future possibly if we were able to come up with a 
field, but it is very difficult having facilities off 
campus.
Q: How do you view the relationship be­
tween academ­
ics and athlet­
ics on the col­
lege level, espe­
cially at CMU 
with its high 
academic stan­
dards?
A: I always 
thought as a 
coach it was more 
fun to teach the 
sharper students. 
You feel that you 
can be more effec­
tive. This is edu­
cation we are 
talking about. I 
think it’s pretty 
natural to enjoy a 
high quality edu­
cational environ­
ment versus alow 
or medium qual­
ity educational 
environment. Un­
derneath all the 
coaching we do is 
education.
There is quite a bit lacking at an institution 
where an athlete is primarily there to play and 
then when the playing days are over they may or 
may not know what they are going to do, or have a 
job. Here you feel the balance is right.
The students are enjoying their recreation, but
courtesy of CMU Athletic Department 
Carnegie Mellon University Athletic Director Dr. John H. Harvey.
Q: What are some of the plans and visions 
that the Athletic Department has?
A: Improvement of athletic facilities has to be a 
major one.
Another thing is improving the quality, not the 
quantity, of sports offered. One sport I felt we 
needed when I got here was women’s soccer, and ultimately they are here for an education and 
fortunately we were able to get it going. I knew preparation for a career or possibly continuing on 
soccer was going to be good in a school like this, to graduate school.
Q: What do you think of the UAA (Univer- 
sity Athletic Association) in which Carnegie 
Mellon University competes?
A: I think the UAAis one of the greatest strengths 
we have, and I think the students like it, too. Good * 
competition, compatible universities, and the stu­
dents we play against are very much like our own. 
The students enjoy the travel.
Q: How does it feel to be situated in Pitts- 
burgh, where the athletic programs at the 
University of Pittsburgh and Duquesne Uni. 
versity get much more attention by the me- 
dia?
A: I think the situation we have here is better and 
more enjoyable and more appropriate education­
ally than they have over there. We really don’t look 
at ourselves as the little guys down the block.
We have the UAA, a great group of universities 
to schedule with and travel to. It is better than 
anything Pitt or Duquesne has. They’re scram­
bling to find people and play here and there.
From an administrator’s standpoint, a distinct' 
advantage is that we don’t have a commercial 
purpose at all. We don’t have to have a commercial 
purpose. If we get 1,000 people at a football game 
or 3,000, or 100 people at a soccer game, it doesn’t 
matter. Our program exists and functions regard-. 
less of that. To have that pressure absent is a very 
big thing. Then we can run the program and the 
teams the way we feel is best for the students. We 
don’t have to try to make money. That is a big thing 
for Division I schools. The kind of players they have 
to recruit to put people in the stands. It screws your 
values all up.
[That is] the situation Oval Jaymes, my col­
league at Pitt, is faced with—trying to get a coach 
to put people in the stands. That guy has head­
aches. It is very hard to be successful at the Divi­
sion I level [due to] the major pressures that these: 
schools are faced with. I’m happy with what we are ’ 
doing here, and what my role is here right now.
Q: What do you think of the coaching staff 
and the Athletic Department staff?
A: Our resources are not just our facilities. We 
have an excellent coaching staff and department 
staff. I regard that as one of the strengths of our 
program. I think they are strong, and they are nice 
to work with. Most of them are here because they 
feel they fit pretty well in the Division III philoso- 
phy.
Lubomir W. Kochanskyj, Tartan Sports Editor, 
is a senior History major.
Tartans football start 4-0
; FOOTBALL, from page 7
¦ a ball that Voytovich inter- 
! cepted at the Juniata 36
yard line, and ran back 31 
yards to the Indians’ five yard 
line.
On the next play, Horton bulled 
into the end zone to make the 
score 15-14, CMU. Mathias’ run 
1 on the two-point conversion at- 
' tempt was stopped short, but the
> Tartans had a lead at halftime
• that they would not relinquish.
“We started slow, and that cost 
; us early,” Mathias said after the 
; game. “The offensive line played 
‘ great, and the holes were there, 
especially in the second half, when
courtesy of CMU Athletic Department 
Junior halfback Nick Bush.
! we could pretty much do what we 
. wanted.”
Kurzinger, who started strong,
• completing seven of 11 passes in 
the first half despite the two in­
terceptions, finished weakly, com­
pleting only two of 11 passes in
; the second half, with another in-
• terception. Playing despite a hip 
pointer, he threw for 72 yards on 
the game.
; “Kurzinger played on a stiff hip, 
and you have to admire that boy,” 
Lackner said. “He showed a lot of 
; character and so did that team.” 
Mathias and Bush started at 
. halfback for CMU due to some 
! injuries. Mathias started in place 
1 of junior Jim Filicko, who he re-
• placed last week when Filicko 
suffered a severe knee sprain that
; will keep him out the rest of the 
; season. Bush, who missed last 
year with a knee injury and most 
'Lof this season with a shoulder 
injury, started in place of junior
Jason Grusky, held out of the 
game with some minor injuries.
Mathias finished the game as 
the leading rusher, with 84 yards 
on 18 carries, and the leading 
receiver, with three catches for 
32 yards. Bush finished with 39 
yards on nine carries, with one 
touchdown. Horton, the team’s 
starting fullback, gained 74 yards 
on 19 carries to increase his team- 
leading total to 272 yards in four 
games. Three other runners, 
sophomores David Saylor and 
Josh Pickens, and freshman Buck 
Neel, also saw playing time, as 
did junior quarterback Matt 
Neiss.
“We were clicking real good to­
day,” Mathias said. “There are so 
many backs on this team that 
could be in the game that there’s 
no one to key on.”
In the second half, the Tartans 
put the game on ice, scoring twice 
in the third quarter on a pair of 
one-yard touchdown runs by Dee.
Dee, last week’s UAA Offen­
sive player-of-the-week when he 
set two league passing records 
against the University of Roches­
ter, struggled in the air, complet­
ing only seven of 19 passes for 86 
yards. However, he did get the 
two touchdowns, though he 
gained only 14 yards for the game.
“I had trouble focusing today 
after the long [three-plus hours] 
bus trip,” Dee said. “I felt hurried 
all day. Once we got the running 
game going, though, and the line 
started to hold, we were alright.” 
Dee spoke frankly about the 
early deficit, saying he had 
thoughts about an upset.
“It was almost a numb feeling 
when we fell behind,” he said. 
“We had to get our ass in gear. I 
was scared we were going to mess 
up our whole season right here.” 
He capped a 55-yard, 10-play 
drive with 10:27 left in the third 
quarter by scrambling into the 
end zone, and Harding’s extra 
point made the score 22-14 for 
the Tartans.
On the Tartans’ next posses­
sion, he capped a 56-yard, 11- 
play drive by following the offen­
sive line on a quarterback keeper 
for the game’s final tallied. 
Harding’s kick made the score
29-14 CMU, and that is the way 
it stayed.
Now the Tartans have the rest
courtesy of CMU Athletic Department 
Senior linebacker Chad Wilson.
of the week to prepare for Allegh­
eny, and they know what they 
have to do. Having fallen behind 
two consecutive opponents by two 
touchdowns before rallying to 
win, the team knows it must start 
strong against Allegheny.
“Next week we have to play
courtesy of CMU Athletic Department 
Senior fullback Brian Horton.
tough all four quarters,” Mathias 
said. “We can’t start slow. We 
won’t change a thing, but we have 
to come out and play like we did 
in the second half [against 
Juniata] in the first half. This 
game gave us some momentum 
for the big game next week.” 
“We got here [Juniata], we got 
the win, and that’s nice,” Dee 
said. “Now, we have Allegheny at 
Homecoming, and it’s easy to get 
up for that.”
192 34T2hear taha4n• 
192 Cg4iMg taha4n• 
192 12r9narMg taha4n• 
192 lnMg4o taha4n• 
192 7MSp2eano taha4n• 
192 meSMe2oar taha4n• 
b4ES taha4n•
NIVISION. It’s a metaphor for the ever- 
changing, always-exciting world of National 
Semiconductor. And new college grads are 
an important part of The National Vision. 
Ultimately, they’re a catalyst behind many 
of the positive changes taking place here 
at National.
For a real-time window on The National 
Vision and opportunities for GSIA, MBAs, 
EE and CE majors, join us after the 
Technical Opportunities Conference.
September 28,1993 
Company Presentation, 6pm - 8pm 
Porter Hall, Room 125B
If you cannot attend, contact National 
Semiconductor, University Recruiting,
Dept. CMUT9/93, 2900 Semiconductor 
Drive, M/S 14-145, P.O. Box 58090, Santa 
Clara, CA 95052-8090. Or call 1-800-876- 
GRAD. National gives preference to cur­
rent qualified employees for all opportuni­
ties and is an equal opportunity employer.
Keep up with die exciting work in 
progress at National Semiconductor with a 
free subscription to N!GEN, a publication 
highlighting the people and projects fuel­
ing the excitement at National 
Semiconductor. Call 1-800-876-GRAD.
^NationalmÆI Semiconductor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 19939
Volleyball hosts UAA tourney
By RAMSEY HONG
, Tartan Art Editor
Last Tuesday, the Tartans lost in a tri-m atch to Grove City College 
I and Baldwin-Wallace College. The scores were 15-0 and 15-9 forthe 
I Baldwin game and 15-9 and 17-15 for the Grove City game, 
i On Saturday, Sunday and Monday, the UAA Volleyball Round 
: Robin Touranment is being held at the Skibo Gymnasium. The first 
! match the Tartans played was against the New York University 
I Violets starting with an assuring 16-14 win, but ending with three 
' losses which gave the match to the Violets. In the game against the 
I Violets, junior Carolyn Skarada was hitting strong and accurately. 
f Junior Molly Brennan’s serves were a real challenge for the Violets 
[ to receive.
Later at 5 pm on Saturday they played the Emory University 
I Eagles whom they lost to in three games. Freshman Sarah Pacocha 
I played good defense, as did Brennan.
On Sunday at 9 am they played the Chicago University Maroons 
I whom they lost to 15-8,15-2, and 15-10.Atlpmthewin went to the 
I University of Rochester Yellowjackets by a score of 15-9,15-2, and 
I 15-7.
The results of the 1992 UAA Volleyball Round Robin Touranment 
I were NYU 8th, Brandeis 7th, Emory 6th, Carnegie Mellon 5th,
I Rochester 4th, Chicago 3rd, Case Western Reserve 2nd, and Wash- 
^ ington 1st. Washington, at this round robin, is playing for its sixth 
I straight victory. The Washington Bears have had an impressive 
I record of winning every match and every game they have played in 
I UAA competition since the beginning of the 1989 round robin.
The round robin will determine seedings for pool play at the UAA 
I Championship Tournament at the University of Rochester on Octo- 
h ber 29 and 30.
On Monday the Tartans play the Bears at 11 am and Brandeis 
I University at 3 pm. After the Round Robin the Tartans play Carlow
I College at home on September 28 at 6 p.m..
Ryan Express reaches end of line
Out of Left Field
By Eric Strauss
When Nolan Ryan of the Texas 
Rangers tore a ligament in his 
pitching elbow on Wednesday 
night against the Seattle Mari­
ners, the pitching legend’s career 
came to a sudden and disappoint­
ing end.
Ryan, the major leagues’ all- 
time strikeout leader with 5,714 
K’s in 5,387 innings, had suffered 
through an injury-plagued 1993. 
Before the season he announced 
this year would be his last, and 
unfortunately, his body could not 
give him the kind of finale he 
deserved.
The 46-year-old pitcher, who 
still threw as hard or harder than 
almost anyone in the game (Rob 
Dibble being the lone exception 
that comes to mind), spent three
Tartans are off to a flving start...
Freshman midfielder Tom Layton has made a significant contribution to the success of the men's 
soccer team. In action Sunday against Allegheny College, Layton went down with a knee injury. His 
quick recovery will be vital to the continued success of the nationally ranked Tartans. The team 
travels to NYU and Emory University this weekend for two UAA battles.
BassemEI-Dasher/Tartan Photographer
classified
ufJOUSING
lovely three bedroom house/parking. 
Furnished basement office, equipped 
Ikitchen. Ideal for students to share, or 
¡faculty. $680/mo. 621-5909.
Webster Hall; female graduate student to 
-jShare three bedroom, two bath, 
•'.completely furnished, A/C, security 
apartment; Fifth Avenue; call 621-4i32.
GREEKS! CLUBS! Student Croups! Raise 
as Much as You Want in One Week! SI 00 
... $600 ... $1500. Market Applications 
for Citibank Visa, MCI, Sears, Amoco, etc. 
Call for your free t-shirt and to qualify for 
free trip to MTV Spring Break '94. Call 
800-932-0528, ext 65.
The Tartan is still looking for staff. If 
you're interested in working for a college 
publication, please contact Keegan at x8- 
2111. No expereince required.
Ii 976"/"900" adult telephone party line 
^conversationalists sought to "entertain" 
^callers. Gift/gab, imagination, sensuality 
¡are pluses. 16-32 hours/week, all shifts. 
,$5/hour plus bonuses. Leave message: 
571-7891.
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses, 
^end SASE for details to: Interna­
tional, 1 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
;FRATS! SORORITIES! STUDENT GROUPS! 
'Raise as Much as You Want in One 
Week. $100 ... $600 ... $1500! Market 
applications for the hottest credit card 
i^ver — New GM Mastercard. Users earn 
¦ -1C DISCOUNTS on GM cars! Qualify for 
Ifree t-shirt and '94 GMC jimmy. Call 1- 
800-950-1039, ext 75.
TRAVEL
TRAVEL FREE! Sell quality vacations to 
the hottest destinations! Jamaica, 
Cancún, Bahamas, South Padre Island, 
Florida. Work for the most reliable spring 
break company. We have the easiests 
way. Call Sun Splash Tours today! 1 - 
800-426-7710
Attention Readers
The Tartan can’t assume 
responsibilty for the 
content of advertise­
ments. Please contact 
the Better Business 
Bureau if you wish to 
investigate a company.
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words..........$5 per week
21-50 words.......$8 per week
51-100 words.....$ 10 per week
• Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
journal transfer with a valid 
account number.
• Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to display 
ads.
• The Tartan is published on the 
following Mondays: 10/4, 10/ 
18,10/25, 11/1, 11/8, 11/15, 
11/22.
Deadline
The deadline for submission of 
classified advertisements is 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication.
stints on the disabled list—with 
torn knee cartilage, a strained 
hip and cut foot, and pulled rib- 
cage muscles.
He did not retire a batter in his 
final start, allowing five runs in 
the first inning against the Mari­
ners, including a grand slam to 
reserve outfielder Dann Howitt. 
Facing Dave Magadan, the next 
batter, he threw one pitch, then 
walked off the mound holding his 
right arm. The Seattle crowd gave 
him two curtain calls.
But the Ryan who will be re­
membered by the fans, the man 
who will enter the Hall of Fame 
in five years, will be the all-time 
strikeout king (with over 1,500 
more than the number two man, 
Steve Carlton); the man who 
threw a record seven no-hitters, 
including two after the age of 43; 
the man who is one of only 20 
pitchers to win 300 games.
He will also be remembered as 
one of the game’s true gentle­
men, a family man who raised his 
family in tiny Alvin, Texas, with­
out beating his wife or abusing 
his sons — something that is all 
too rare in this day and age.
The quiet Texas cattle rancher
inspired a state in his early years, 
and a generation later as he 
reached and passed the age of 40, 
still grunting like Monica Seles 
as he fired that 95-plus miles per 
hour fastball past unsuspecting 
players who were being born 
when Ryan broke in with the 1966 
New York Mets.
In fact, many of his current 
teammates on the Rangers met 
that criteria, including outfielder 
Juan Gonzalez (b. 1969), third 
baseman Dean Palmer (b. 1968), 
catcher Ivan Rodriguez (b. 1971), 
and outfielder David Hulse (b. 
1968).
Ryan pitched for the Mets from 
1966-1971, was then traded to 
the California Angels for infielder 
Jim Fregosi, now the manager of 
the Philadelphia Phillies.
He pitched for the Angels from 
1972-1979, then returned to his 
beloved Texas, signing with the 
Houston Astros as a free agent 
before the 1980 season.
He spent 1980-1988 with the 
Astros and then signed with the 
Rangers in 1989, spending his 
final five years with them.
His retirement brings to an end 
the good old days when pitchers
were men who threw 250 innings 
a season and were starters or 
relievers.
Not aces, numbered (second, 
third, fourth) starters, closers,; 
stoppers, set-up men, middlemen, 
mop-up men, or any of the other 
specialists in today’s game.
Ryan was one of the few re­
maining hurlers who pitched in­
side, to win ball games and to 
make his point. Ask Chicago 
White Sox third baseman Robin 
Ventura, who was hit by a Ryan 
pitch in retaliation early in the 
year.
He charged the mound and was 
summarily outslugged by one of 
baseball’s most senior citizens, 
who belted Ventura six times 
without getting hit once.
Ryan finished his 27th and fi­
nal season with a 5-5 record and 
a 4.88 ERA, with 46 strikeouts. 
His retires with 324 wins.
Charlie Hough, a knuckleball 
pitcher with the Florida Marlins^ 
is now the oldest player in base­
ball at the age of 45.
Eric Strauss, Tartan assistant 
Sports editor, is a sophomore cre­
ative writing major.
Two tennis players compete at tournament
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
A pair of women’s tennis players competed in the 1993 Rolex Northeast Tennis Championships for 
Division III players at William Smith College in Geneva, New York last weekend.
Senior co-captains Whitney Weber and Sharyn Rotunno competed in both singles and doubles at the 
tournament.
Weber lost in the first round of singles play to Stephanie Gale of St. Lawrence University, 6-2, 6-3, 
but came back to win three consolation matches before falling.
She defeated Keri Lesniak of William Smith, 7-6, 6-3; Marijude Harding of Oneonta University, 6- 
3, 6-4; and Sarah Cooper of St. Lawrence University, 6-3,1-6, 7-6.
She lost to Yael Levy of Ithaca, 6-2, 6-2, eliminating her from the tournament.
Rotunno, meanwhile, lost in the first round of singles play to Amy Rabinovitz of William Smith, 3- 
6,1-6, and won one consolation match before being eliminated.
She defeated Jessica Nabozny of Oneonta, 1—6, 6—4, 6—1; then lost to Kelly Gaughan of Ithaca, 6-7, 
6-4, 4-6.
The two players also took the courts as a doubles team, drawing a bye in the first round, losing in the 
second round, and then advancing to the consolation finals before losing.
They lost in the second round to the team of Gale and Perry from St. Lawrence, 1-6,2-6. They defeated 
the teams of Santiago and Aliha of Oneonta, 6-0, 6-1, and Gaughan and Trull of Ithaca, 6-3, 6-1. In 
the consolation final, the lost to Cohen and Frisch of Ithaca, 1-6, 0-6.
1> R I X C I I’ I. !•: S of SOl.M) K K I I R V. M K M I \ V K S I I \ G
IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS 
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF 
THROUGH RETIREMENT.
T
hink about supporting yourself for 
twenty-five, thirty years or longer 
in retirement. It might be the greatest 
financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, 
you have one valuable asset in your 
favor. Time.
Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. 
Time for your money to grow.
But starting early is key. Consider this: 
if you begin saving just $ioo a month at 
age thirty, you can accumulate $172,109* 
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside 
$219 a month to reach the same goal.
At TIAA-CREE we not only under­
stand the value of starting early, we 
can help make it possible—with flexible 
retirement and tax-deferred annuity 
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment 
choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans 75 years.
Over a million people in education 
and research are already enrolled in 
America's largest retirement system. 
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call 
today and learn how simple it is to put 
yourself through retirement when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1800 842-2888.
75 years of ensuring the future 
for those who shape it“
01993 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association/College Retirement Equities Fund.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993
Three’s company in NFL this season
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
Has the field goal replaced the touch­
down as the big play in the NFL? Every­
one seems to be worrying about this the 
last few weeks. Already five teams have 
won games without touchdowns. Last 
year there were only four. Is it that 
defenses are getting better inside the 20, 
or that offenses are getting worse? Nei­
ther. The whole reason for more field 
goals and fewer TDs can be blamed on 
television.
Last year, in order to make games 
shorter for TV (so they could run a ton of 
commercials), the NFL made some game 
clock changes. The biggest one is that 
the clock only stops for penalties, incom­
plete passes, and change of possession. 
Only in the last five minutes of each half 
can a player stop the clock by running 
out of bounds. Because of this, games 
last less than three hours, and actual
playing time is even less than it was 
before. This was the reason for lower 
scores last year, and is a reason for more 
field goals this year. Run-and-shoot style 
teams have struggled to score four or 
five touchdowns the last two years.
This year, the NFL has tried to limit 
time in the huddle. Each team has 25 
seconds from the end of their last play to 
the beginning of their next play. This is 
another reason for more field goals.
Coaches this year are beginning to 
realize how much quicker NFL games 
are. A couple of years ago, a team would 
have a chance to come back if they were 
17 points down with 15 minutes to go. 
Now they know that the clock will run 
much faster (until it gets down to five 
minutes left), so they have to start their 
comeback earlier. The faster games have 
also helped revived the field goal. Lead­
ing by maybe a touchdown with 10 min­
utes to go, a team will play it safe and 
take a field goal knowing the clock will 
be in their favor.
Also, with the new 25 second rule, the 
coach has less time to make a decision on 
a given fourth down situation. When in 
doubt, an NFL coach will always take 
the sure thing. Therefore, as television 
steals more playing time away from the 
NFL for commercials, the field goal be­
comes more and more valuable in the 
NFL.
Improvement is the key word for Week 
three. With three out of five good picks, 
my record to date becomes 7-8. Unfortu­
nately, the Chargers and Browns each 
made comebacks to keep me from pick­
ing five for five.
However, the Eagles helped me and 
themselves by winning their game on 
the last play to go to 3-0 on the season. 
For a brilliant game, the Eagles get the 
Team of the Week award. The Redskins 
kept trying to knock the Eagles out, but 
Randall Cunningham and gang would 
not go down. The Eagles have strung 
together three big wins and they are 
beginningto look like the team to beat in 
the NFC.
A good first half is followed by a sloppy 
second half — that’s the story of the 
week for the Raiders and Cowboys. The 
Raiders had the Browns down at home 
and let them up, a big mistake.
The Cowboys started their game with 
the Cardinals playing like champions, 
but they then let Phoenix close the gap 
in the second half. The Cowboys still got 
their first win with Emmitt Smith, 17- 
10.
The Giants kept on truckin’ with an 
easy victory over the Rams. However,
IM News
even though the Giants are 3-0, they 
have yet to play a team that had a 
winning record last year. They will have 
their chance this week when they go to 
Buffalo to take on the Bills.
Barry Foster found the Steelers run­
ning game as they rolled over the 
“Bungles” 34-7. Thanks to the Steelers, 
the Bengals win the “Bosworth Award” 
for Week Three. The Steelers pass the 
award on to Cincinnati as they hope to 
get out of their hole and get back to 
thoughts of a second division title.
San Diego and the Chiefs made use of 
the field goal to win their games. The 
Chargers kicked six to beat the Oilers
18-17 and the Chiefs (yawn) kicked five 
of their own to beat the Broncos 15—7.
Finally, the Saints and 49ers each 
found wins last week. The Saints seem 
to be on their way with their 14-3 vic­
tory over the Lions. The Saints look 
impressive so far, but I’m not willing to 
label them excellent until they can win 
a playoff game.
The 49ers continue to. have trouble 
winning. After last week’s 37-30 victory 
over the Falcons, they are desperately 
searching for some defense to help them 
down the road.
And lastly, Seattle beat New England 
17-14in a battle between franchise quar­
terbacks with this year’s respective first 
and second round draft picks, Patriots' 
Drew Bledsoe and Seahawks’ Rick Mirer.
Top Five Picks for Week 5
1. Minnesota at San FranciscoDon’t ask me why, but I have a feeling 
about this one. Take the Vikings in a big 
upset: 17—13.
2. N.Y. Giants at Buffalo
Ahh. The Giants must go to Buffalo. 
Forget it, I see no way the Giants could 
win this one. Take the Bills comfortably;
30-10.
3. Washington at Miami
The Dolphins need to win this one. 
How ‘bout a Marino drive to win it: 24- 
20.
4. Green Bay at Dallas
The Cowboys return with Smith after 
a week off. Expect to see Smith return to 
his running form. However, the Cow­
boys will keep the scoring low. Cowboys 
20-16.
5. L.A. Raiders at Kansas City
The Raiders are tough this season, but 
the Joe Montana-led Chiefs are better. 
Chiefs 20-7.
John Weber is a.junior civil engineer­
ing major.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3886 
Intermediate: Pat Leach, X2-2550 
Minors: Jim Saxon, x2-3874 
Women only: Tricia Williams, x2-5873 
Schedules can be picked up in the IM office. 
Please check the bulletin board for changes. 
TENNIS
Commissioner: Matt Charlesworth, x2-2876 
Matches will consist oftwo singles and one doubles 
match, played atthe same time on courts 1-3 ofthe 
CMU tennis courts. These courts are reserved for
IM tennis from 6:30-11:30 pm Monday through 
Thursday. Please report the score to the commis­
sioner or the IM office.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner: Tricia Williams, x2-2609 
. Teams must have three men and three women on 
the court at all times, and if the ball is played more 
than once on a side, a woman must play the ball. 
GOLF
Commissioner: Marc Mileto, x2-3911 
The 1993 IM golf tournament, The E.J. Birdy 
Open, was played on Sunday. Results will be avail­
able later in the week, when all scores are reported. 
Please turn score cards in to the IM office.
SPORTS COMING UP 
CROSS COUNTRY
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, X2-3886 
The 1993 IM cross country meet will be held 
Wednesday, October 6 at 4:30 pm on a course from 
Flagstaff Hill through Schenley Park (1.9 miles). A 
team of five runners may compete, or runners may 
compete as individuals. There will be a special 
division for four-woman teams. All CMU students, 
faculty, and staff are welcome to compete. 
WATER POLO 
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3886 
Minors: Pat Leach, x2-2550
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. League games will be starting Tuesday at 9 
pm and 10 pm.
CHESS
Commissioner: Jim Saxon, x2-3874
The entry date for chess has been pushed back to 
Thursday at 4:30 pm. Entry forms may be handed 
in to the IM office.
BUSINESS
The next IM board meeting will be held Wednes­
day, October 6 at 11:30 am in the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
DALMOP T I C A L
THE CLEAR CHOICESAVE
20%
0 NEW DISCOUNT FOR 
CMC! STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
THE 23-CHECKPOINT EYE EXAM:
OUR COMPUTERIZED EYE EXAM PROVIDES A DETAILED 
OPTOMETRIC PROFILE. THE RESULT...CONFIDENCE IN VISION FOR YO(l.
THE NEW VISION - 
IN FRAMES AND CONTACTS:
SELECTION. IT'S THE FIRST THING THAT MEETS THE EYE AT EVERY 
DALMO OPTICAL CENTER. FROM BOLD COLORS AND SOPHISTICATED 
PROFILES IN FRAMES TO EXTENDED WEAR. GAS PERMEABLE AND 
DISPOSABLE CONTACTS. DALMO HAS IT ALL!
DR. R.T. GREENBERG, OPTOMETRIST 
5824 FORBES fiVENCIE 
SQUIRREL HILL 
PHONE 521-2100
Smart 
Day
Free
Cholesterol Screening 
Consultations with Nutritionist 
Consultations with Fitness Instructor
For all undergraduate and graduate students
All participants eligible for raffle prizes!
, West Wing TV Room 
’Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
10 am - 2 pm
Sponsored by Student Health Services, Division of Student Affairs, Medchek Laboratories, Department of 
Athletics, Carnegie Mellon Dining Service
Be Smart! Help Your Heart! Be Smart! Help Your Heart! Be Smarl! Help Your Heart! Be Smart! Help Your Heart!

---------------------------------------------------

imme 88. Issue 5The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania27 September 1993
Campus enhanced by student diversity
Commuters, transfers face issues
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
There are many issues which 
concern transfer and commuter 
students. These issues have been 
neglected in the past, but when 
transfers and commuters were 
offered an opportunity to meet 
during freshman Orientation, a 
handful of transfers and commut­
ers spoke up.
This fall, CMU launched a pro­
gram that involved having aregu- 
lar meeting place for transfers 
and commuters to hang out 
while first years and on-cam- 
pus dwellers had their dorm 
and Resident Assistant (RA) 
meetings.
AllisonRiley, an assistant 
to the dean of Student Af­
fairs, helped to facilitate 
these meetings. She 
wanted to gain a better 
understanding of the is­
sues and concerns sur­
rounding commuters and 
transfers.
• Atthese gatherings in the 
Tilted Square Cafe, many 
. of the discussions focused
personal issues as well. “[Com­
muters have] the best of both 
worlds,” as Habib says to empha­
size the positive aspects of being 
able to return home at the end of 
a school day to a supportive fam­
ily.
“Yeah, and Mom still 
cooks and every­
thing,” says 
Jeff 
Eck,
person with all the answers, but 
more the “referral and resource 
person.” Her main goal is to help 
create a working network of 
people on and off campus who 
will hopefully help discover solu-
and transfer students to discuss 
isuues and concerns more easily.
Several people suggested more 
social meetings, so these will be 
arranged and announced a few 
times each semester.
Riley says, “This year a core 
group is involved. We are 
setting trends.” Prog­
ress is being made on 
meeting some 
concerns, but
on safety, parking, housing
ancl apartment options, and 
transportation possibilities 
for the commuters.
I “[I wish there were] better 
parking facilities just for stu- 
' dents,” says George Habib, a 
sophomore modem languages 
major and a transfer and com­
muter student. Sarah Pender­
grass, a freshman in fine arts2
 who lives off campus, says, “I 
think that a shuttle really should 
go to the Squirrel Hill area.” 
Some individual concerns arose 
as well, mainly for transfers, fo­
cusing on age differences and 
adjusting to a coeducational fa--'j's'
cility.
“I have noticed that women are 
less likely to speak up in class,” 
says Pendergrass, who trans­
ferred from Smith College, and 
then also adds, “I wish that I 
, could get a chance to meet more 
upperclassmen; it has been 
harder than I thought to meet 
more students my age.”
Some commuters mentioned
relieved 
MCS freshman, 
who has successfully 
avoided the Highlander eating 
experience. Some other commut­
ers also agree with these warm 
aspects but express problems 
finding a balance at times be­
tween home, school, and, espe­
cially, old and new friends.
Riley makes these concerns 
known to other staff and faculty. 
“I am the contact person for com­
muters and transfers,” she says, 
but Riley is quick to emphasize 
that she is not the expert or the
tions to some of these issues.
On September 21, the first 
meeting after Orientation was 
held for transfers and commut­
ers to further vocalize their wants 
and needs. There was a small, 
but effective, turnout.
Requests were made for some 
form of regular communication 
and contact with minimal time 
commitment, so Riley is helping 
to set up a bboard for commuter
social 
meetings 
a year. Com­
muters and 
transfers, including 
internal transfers, are 
encouraged to vocalize their 
experiences so that programs 
can be developed and improved 
as more issues arise.
Riley will gladly meet individu­
ally with anyone to discuss con­
cerns or praises, but all commut­
ers and transfers are encouraged 
to discuss issues with their fac­
ulty advisors and to also attend 
the group meetings which will be 
held soon in the future.
Allison Riley may be reached in 
Student Affairs at x8-2075.
Tech had plebian rules
By JENNIFER BARKIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University is known for its liberal outlook. 
However, after browsing through some old handbooks, the 
conservativism which Carnegie Tech was built upon becomes 
quite apparent. What we know as a free spirited, open-minded 
environment was once what the current classes might consider 
intolerable and rigid.
The foreword in the 1913-1914 handbook reads, “Mr. Carn­
egie’s purpose in founding the Institute of Technology was to 
place a technical education of the most approved type within the 
reach of any boy who makes up in pluck and personality what he 
may lack in money.” Printing “any boy” in a late 20th century 
Carnegie Mellon Handbook might not be a good idea.
Freshmen, referred to as plebes, were required to wear skull 
caps representing their respective schools within the boundaries 
of Schenley Park until Christmas break. Also, a 1913—1914 
commandment was the prohibition of wearing high school insig­
nia. “Plebes shall wear black neckties and hosiery during their 
first year.” Tech even instituted a dress code. Imagine that. On 
The Tartan, “Every student should subscribe, to keep in touch 
with the life around Carnegie Tech. Subscription $1.00 per 
year.” Would collegiate penny-pinchers subscribe today?
“All Tech students are members of the Carnegie Clan. The 
Senior heads the Clan. It is he who fixes regulations for the new 
men.”
The 1921-22 handbook commandments were progressively 
worse:
“6) Thou (women) shalt not linger before any windows facing 
Woodlawn Avenue for men-y reasons.
8) Do not miss riding up and down elevators. They are too rare 
to be neglected.”
The unspoken rule today is “Do not miss taking the steps. You 
get too little exercise to take the elevator.” Rules included 
holding open doors for faculty and upperclassmen and the 
prohibition of cigarettes anywhere on campus. Freshmen were 
not allowed to walk or talk with any member of the opposite sex. 
Those who broke the rules felt the wrath of the Student Senate, 
which made the penalties.
CFA required that its freshmen wear green smocks.
In 1935-1938 freshmen were still punishable for “gross disre­
spect” to upperclassmen but were now required to speak to all 
members of the opposite sex, including upperclassmen and 
freshmen. The main entrance of the administration building 
was offlimits to freshmen, and trials were held once a week to 
punish misguided freshmen. “No Freshmen shall wear, raise, or 
attempt to raise a mustache.”
“Freshmen must know the history of Carnegie Tech.” The 
1941—42 handbook required females to wear arm bands desig­
nating their respective schools. Males donned the Tech Dink and 
plaid tie. There was a Scalp and Blade student organization, a 
club for men from Buffalo.
“When I go a’ strolling out through Schenley, Tech is the only 
place that takes my eye.” This is a line from one of Carnegie 
Tech’s most popular songs. In the 1950 handbook, freshmen 
were required to purchase a traditional Skibo Cap. A 70 percent 
passing grade was mandatory on the Tech Traditions Exam. The 
exam consisted of questions on practical information about the 
school “that every freshman should know.” Upon failing, you had 
to retake it until you passed.
Students adjust to campus, U.S.
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Features Editor
Carnegie Mellon has growing connections all 
over the globe. According to Laura Buhs-Guerrero, 
Foreign Student Advisor, roughly 1300 students, 
or 18 percent of the student body population, 
have international origins. Up from 1050 stu­
dents last fall, the number of international stu­
dents enrolling every year is increasing at a 
steady pace, between 10 and 12 percent per year.
So how is nearly one-fifth of the campus popu­
lation m aking the transition from their culture to 
American culture? How do they handle the lan­
guage barrier while keeping up in their classes? 
Buhs-Guerrero is here to help these foreign stu­
dents find the answers to these questions and 
help them make the adjustment, while encourag­
ing them to keep a tight hold on their own culture 
and ethics.
Most of the issues Buhs-Guerrero faces with 
students are basic, such as immigration pro­
cesses, and how students can attain drivers’ li­
censes. But most students are making a major 
adjustment and need support.
Students are coming here from a wide variety 
of backgrounds,” says Buhs-Guerrero. “The ma­
jority come from Asia — China, and India, but we 
also have many from Japan, Taiwan, Korea, and 
Canada, and are slowly seeing increases in en­
rollment from the former Soviet Union, Poland, 
Hungary, and Czechoslovakia.”
Needless to say, the educational systems in
¦ ¦, these countries are all quite different from that of 
an American college. “There is a big difference in 
we way the students conduct themselves in the 
JaBsroom. Students here [in America] are ex­
pected to participate more in class discussions, 
while they [foreign students] may be more used to
lecture-based teaching. There is al3o a larger 
degree of informality in the classroom which 
they may not be used to.”
Overcoming language differences may also be 
a tough obstacle for foreign students. Before 
being admitted to Carnegie Mellon, all foreign- 
born students must take and pass a TOEFL 
test, or proficiency in English exam. Although 
most students have been studying English for 
most of their lives, they may have mastered 
reading and writing the language but still have 
trouble speaking, or they may have been taught 
British English, which has some differences.
“It might take them two or three times as long 
to read a chapter in history as it would take you 
or me,” says Buhs-Guerrero.
These students are also being asked to make 
some cultural adjustments as well. “It becomes 
more difficult for some of them to keep with 
religious practices, because they may not be as 
accepted here,” says Buhs-Guerrero. “Strict 
Muslims have a number of dietary restrictions, 
and observances, such as a month of fasting in 
the spring. The women all wear full veils.” 
Buhs-Guerrero has worked to install programs 
for foreign students to allow them to discuss 
issues which affect them. “We have programs 
for them to attend during Orientation, and the 
Career Center has workshops for foreign stu­
dents looking for jobs overseas,” she says.
The percentage of enrollment from a country 
is influenced by the students themselves. “Many 
students are organizing conferences to bring 
students from their home here to see the cam­
pus,” says Buhs-Guerrero.
“Foreign students aretryingto publicize CMU 
back home because they feel strongly that they 
have picked a good institution and want others 
to know about it.”
Seniors opt for fifth year study
years.
By TONYA RADO
i Assistant Features Editor
Many undergraduate students 
decide to continue their studies 
for five years to take courses to 
complete their primary major, or 
they choose study an additional 
major and minor from other de­
partments on campus. A great 
number of students also plan to 
enter into one of CMUs gradu­
ate studies programs for various 
reasons. Many of these 
graduate students 
take classes in the 
Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administra­
tion (GSIA) at the 
masters, doctoral, and 
executive levels.
GSIA students learn 
how to manage in a 
rapidly changing mar­
ketplace. From its der- 
ivation more than 40 
years ago, GSIA has been at the 
forefront of innovation in man­
agement education.
The institution’s pioneering 
achievements in scientific prob­
lem solving and interdisciplinary 
teamwork have been practiced 
by many other prestigious busi­
ness schools.
GSIA’s insistence on excellence 
among its faculty and students 
has repeatedly earned Carnegie 
Mellon a high rank among the 
top business schools in the na­
tion. GSIA alumni have estab­
lished a track record of success 
and leadership in management 
and management education.
They are even represented in­
ternationally in the ranks of For­
tune 500 companies, as leaders of 
vital entrepreneurial venture, 
and as leading faculty members 
among many academic institu­
tions. GSIA alumni also provide 
a strong network for new gradu­
ates at CMU.
"/ feel so old. I can’t believe 
I’ve been here [CMU] for five
— Asha Puttaiah 
Fifth year senior
Asha Puttaiah is one of CMITs 
fifth year seniors. Currently, she 
is working on her thesis for her 
history degree based on the trans­
portation policy of Pittsburgh. In 
May, she will graduate with three 
majors in civil engineering, IM, 
history, and an environmental 
minor.
“I feel so old,” she said. “I can’t 
believe that I’ve been here for five plished a great deal, both aca- 
years.” Puttaiah originally came demically andnon-academically. 
to CMU to study architecture, Fifth year students continue to
but soon she transferred to civil add to the campus community.
engineering. She has already suc­
cessfully completed all of the 
qualifications of a CivE degree. 
“Engineering is very different 
from IM and history studies,” 
Puttaiah said.
In addition to her academic 
studies, Puttaiah is a member of 
American Society of Chemical En­
gineering (ASCE).
“As you change and go through 
college, your interests change,” 
she said. “Different things take
________ precedence each
year.”
As a freshman, she 
was actively involved 
in IM sports. As a 
sophomore, Puttaiah 
served as a Resident 
Assistant (RA) and 
was also active in 
crew and ASCE. 
During her junior 
^—^^1 year, she joined the 
Society of Women 
Engineers and continued to par­
ticipate in crew.
Now as a fifth year student, 
Puttaiah has other concentra-.. 
tions such as establishing a job 
and completing her history the­
sis.
Even though her house mate 
calls her “the old fossil” she feel3 
that she definitely has accom-

---------------------------------------------------

mrÆvæ t: Technical Opportunities Conference
vtriw&rGZ Skibo Student Activities Center
l/irtt&n: Tuesday, September 28,1993,
10:00am-4:00pm
•\
\Microsoft
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity Employer and supports workforce diversity.
Mk-rnsnfi is a rcyislcivil trademark ni Microsoli (‘orporatinn.
Are you excited by aChdilC&RJ|gCi ? Not content to sit on the 
sidelines and watch others perform? Then talk to us. From day one, you’ll 
be given an opportunity to go as far as your talent 
takes you. You’ll team up with smart people with a common goal: to be the 
best in the world. If you thrive onintensity.
you belong here. It’s the coolest way to work, to play and to live.
i
Si*6S«Slgl.__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________“““------JfilBfiSt?

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993
Morse code bridges gap to prank callers
Askew, No Shoes
By Matt Messner
Good [insert time of day here] 
and welcome to the do-it-yourself 
column. This week, for your added 
enjoyment, you will be able to 
personalize this column by in­
serting your favorite direct ob­
ject, pronoun, or other part of 
speech whenever we reach a 
bracketed section. Don’t worry, 
I’ll start you off slowly with hints 
as to what should go where and, 
then will work up to non-descript 
deletions. In time you may be
able to [insert column], or, for 
those really bent on the true spirit 
ofreaderinteraction, [insertgood 
column]. But enough of that, let 
us [synonym for commence].
It would appear, after careful 
inspection, that the quality of this 
column has been progressing 
downward at a methodical linear 
rate. This disturbs me. So few 
things in nature are truly linear; 
you would expect a column like 
this to get worse at some trigono­
metric inverse proportion to the 
time the sun rises. But no, it 
would have to be linear—boring, 
dull, linear. If you were just to 
give 230 a day (less than the price 
of one cup of [insert beverage]) 
you could provide this column 
with food, shelter, and a minimal 
education. Over the years, you 
can watch your column grow and 
even receive mentions from it in
print. Sponsor a column today. 
Why should some columns have 
all the quality while others must 
starve? [insert transitional sen­
tence changing topic to that of 
phone conversations. (Everyone 
seems to like telephone stories.)] 
As a rule, I hate telephones. 
They scare me and frequently 
harass me. Yesterday I found one 
sleeping in my bed. (Yes, alone.) 
However, they do have the un­
canny habit of creating bizarre 
confrontations that would never 
have existed without them. A few 
of my preferred follow:
It was a dark and stormy night. 
The telephone rang, and this time 
I answered it. To my dismay, no 
one seemed to be on the other 
side. (No, I did not call myself.) It 
was a thoroughly uninteresting 
prank call. Now, I don’t have any 
problem with being pranked, pro­
vided that the other person pro­
vides me with enough humor to 
make up for the interruption. 
(You’ll notice he doesn’t print his 
phone number in this column.) 
This individual, it seemed, was 
bent on doing absolutely nothing. 
Wasn’t even going to hang up. I 
was not about to permit this. 
Surely he would provide some 
entertainment, even if I had to 
[insert verb and adverb] to him in 
order to make him breathe 
heavily. He was the epitome of 
stoicism, or at least really good at 
holding down the mute button, so 
I never heard a thing.
Then I finally understood. He 
was trying to reach out to some­
one, but just couldn’t find his 
voice. I felt so bad for the poor 
soul, I was determined to bring 
him out. So I laid down the 
groundwork, “Okay, I understand
you are unable to speak. Simply 
beep once for yes and twice for 
no.” This, oddly enough, worked. 
I spoke, and he beeped, for quite 
some time before eventually 
hanging up. I would say that I 
could recognize that style of beep­
ing instantly were I to hear it 
again, but then I would be lying. 
My favorite excerpt from that 
night is as follows: Me: “This is a 
rather limited means of commu­
nication. Do you know Morse 
code?” Him: “Beeeeep-beep, 
Beeeeep Beeeeep Beeeeep.”
My other telephone discussion 
worth reminiscing over was with 
an anonymous girl. She called 
me andimmediatelydroppedinto 
small talk. I used to feel really 
guilty when I forgot people’s 
names (CMU cured me of that) so 
I spoke to her for several minutes 
before finally breaking down and
asking her who the [noun] she 
was. I still didn’t remember her, 
but that was okay because I 
wasn’t her friend Steve. I told her 
she should miscall me again some­
time but she never did. Pity.
This column will close with a 
bit of restroom repartee (a grow­
ing literary force in this country.) 
I strongly encourage you all to 
read as much as you can:
“I [verb] your mom.”
“Dad, you’re drunk! Go home!”
Matt Messner, CIT freshman, 
is the only creative reading major 
on campus. Give him enough text 
and he'll make it mean whatever 
you want it to. Give him a lever 
and he’ll try to balance it on his 
finger. Thanks to Allen, who 
cheered him up after failing his 
ECE exam, and Michelle for ex­
isting.Campus water fountains ranked
Horror Stories
By Tom Harper
You’ve had a hard hour in class, but it 
.seems like four. And you are thirsty. You 
head for the nearest drinking fountain. 
You can almost taste it. You see it. You 
turn the knob or press the button and... 
almost nothing comes out. What does 
come out you would have to slurp out of 
the spigot to drink.
That’s happened to me a lot over the 
past month. (Has it been that long?) One 
day I decided enough is enough. I’ll jour­
ney to every academic building on cam­
pus and find out which drinking foun­
tains are in definite need of improve­
ment. Also, I’d see where the best foun­
tains are — the ones that fire out a cool 
blast of H20 in a nice, large arch. Then 
there’s no chance for sickness by putting 
your mouth near the spigot. Hey, it’s 
cold and flu season already!
For this mission I trekked to the deep­
est, darkest comers of the halls. Unseen 
offices. Top-secret research. Far Side 
cartoons as far as the eye can see. But 
almost everywhere I went, there were 
many faces eager to help me — to the 
nearest exit.
Nevertheless, in the face of grad stu­
dents, untouched bulletin boards, thou­
sands of stairs, radioactive signs, and 
“No Admittance” flyers, I plunged for­
ward to compile this article of the best 
and worst drinking fountains in aca­
demic buildings on campus.
In Margaret Morrison, most fountains 
share a common characteristic — they
are low. The best one is in the first 
basement.
In GSIA the best fountain is by the fire 
hose on the first floor. The one by the 
restrooms has a weird taste to it—kind 
of like dust.
CFA boasts two excellent fountains — 
in the basement and the third floor. The 
one on the second floor has an aftertaste 
to it — if you’ve ever tasted metal, you 
have some idea what it is.
By far the best place to be when you
Nnp- cn-pD/S-Ud-p AUd fd-ee 
need water is Baker Hall. The one on the 
first floor and both on the second floor 
are three of the best on campus.
The fountains in Porter Hall are okay 
except for the one by B42 (another nasty 
metal aftertaste) and the one on the 
second floor (just plain pathetic).
If you are a water lover, stay off the 
second and fourth floors of Scaife Hall. 
They are the worst ones on campus. 
There’s no pressure at all on the second
floor, and the one on fourth has a nasty 
aftertaste, but what it is I cannot de­
scribe without obscene words. Water 
lovers in Scaife should head down to the 
first floor by the MCS Dean’s office. It’s 
good. I wonder if the proximity to the 
Dean’s office has anything to do with it’s 
convenient location...
Hamburg Hall has a perfectly sym­
metric system of fountains — there is 
one on either side of the main entrance 
and the ones on the upper floors are 
directly on top of them. Watch out for the 
ones on the first floor — unless you like 
lots of warm water. The one on the right, 
third floor, tied the record for the high­
est arch — about four and a half inches. 
It’s good, too.
In Cyert Hall, one has to bend down 
even further than in MM — in fact to 
test them I had to kneel. It’s worth the 
extra effort. It’s good water.
For CMU lefties, Wean Hall is the 
place to get your water. Watch out for 
ones that splatter water when you press 
the button: third floor 3202 and 3220; 
fourth floor freight elevator; fifth floor 
5328; seventh floor 7202; and eighth 
floor 8202. The best one in all of Wean is 
on the seventh floor, room 7427.
Last but not least is Doherty Hall, 
where “from one extreme to the other” is 
the rule for dealing with water foun­
tains. The fountain in the Modem Phys­
ics Lab wins the “Funkiest Water Foun­
tain” award—yuk!
But the best one on campus is by the 
physics lab. It’s cool, clear, refreshing, 
and also ties for the highest arch.
And if I set off any alarms while doing 
this experiment—I didn’t see any signs.
Tom Harper, MCS freshman, has offi­
cially gone completely out of his mind. 
He had to walk about 10 miles to com­
plete this article, so he’s going to look 
really good in his straitjacket.
Write home, don’t call, 
to relieve college stress
By MICKIKOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Staffwriter
Like most Carnegie Mellon students, 
I spend a considerable portion of my 
life in front of a computer in a cluster 
somewhere on campus. At any given 
time, I could be doing one of four things: 
reading my email, writing a paper, 
solving the mysteries of computer pro­
gramming (one of those requirements 
X know I won’t use), or writing a letter.
Because I left many of my friends 
and all of my relatives behind in Eng­
land when I came to live here, I write 
a lot of letters. Actually, even if I could 
afford to call them on the phone, I 
don’t think I would. Writing a letter 
allows you to communicate with some­
one in a way you can’t in person; you 
have to consider what you say care­
fully, because, who knows? — maybe 
this letter will be around for years.
My letters usually contain a couple 
of weeks thoughts, experiences, and 
observations. By the time I actually 
write it, I have narrowed what I say 
down to only the most lasting impres­
sions of my life here at CMU, and in 
the U.S.
Mostly, what I fill my letters with 
are descriptions of all the things that 
don’t exist in England. I like to im­
press them with the weather: “It was 
94 degrees today!... We had two feet of 
snow last night!... The tornado wasn’t 
all that bad....” OK, I admit I do go for 
shock value.
Best of all, I like to give my friends 
an impression of life on an American 
university campus. I tell them about 
playing Frisbee on the Cut in the fad­
ing evening light; about rowdy films 
seen in Doherty Hall 2210; about 
groups of fully-grown men walking 
aroundatnight wrapped in bed sheets 
on their way to parties; about sitting 
in the bleachers cheering the football 
team on.
I try to describe what cheerleaders 
are, that pizza delivered in a box is 
more a necessity than a luxury. I have 
trouble telling why I can’t describe the 
quality of CMU beer. My friends have 
trouble understanding why I go to a 
university that doesn’t have a bar on 
campus.
Explaining the attainment of one’s 
degree depends on the fulfillment of a 
required amount of units or credit 
hours is an uphill battle I’m still fight­
ing after three years. “Don’t worry,” I 
wrote my Mom, “I’ll let you know when 
to turn up for graduation.”
Because I have to work with a lim­
ited economy of words, I usually leave 
out the moaning that is easy to resort 
to in phone calls. Instead, I find myself 
focusing on the good things that are 
happening to me.
After all, I don’t want to cause any­
one undue stress. By the time they get 
a letter describing the agonies of a 
homework project, I’ll have handed it 
in.
Somehow, reflecting on the positive 
aspects of life at CMU every week 
through my letters helps to keep all 
the stress and homework in perspec­
tive. It reminds me of why I’m here — 
to make the most of the years I have 
left before facing the real world—and 
it’s a great way to keep from feeling 
homesick.
NEED A MAJOR 
CREDIT CARD?
Bad Credit? No Credit?
Up to $5,000 
For A Free Consultation Call: 
1-800-825-8598 
Seven Days a Week
CALL NOW II
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
* FREE TRIPS & CASH *
û-éé 's -ph enph r'd wr1 w'phU<hs re 
sd'h<pds -U< -éU<-hi <-UpnpD ,REE 
SRIEf -ph cOSf O, ûAfH 1ndw 
At<Uno-’s #1 fPUnpD RU<-k ortP-pi! 
ûwrrs< û-poúpl R-w-t-sl J-t-no-l 
E-p-t-l D-idrp-l rU E-hU<!
TAKE A BREAK
STUDENT TRAVELS
(800) 328-SAVE or 
(617)424-8222
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail .Passes
FORUM
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
|off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
BAGELS
A BAKERY AND RESTAURANT.
Bigger, Better Bagels... 
...Naturally!
• Full Sandwich Menu 
' Homemade Soups, Spreads & Salads
3615ForbesAve.,Oakland 
682-2558
Mon-fnl7am-7pni)Sat7:3(k]m-4pm,Sun8am-4pm
rt$ Bring this ad in and receive
4 BAGELS for a BUCK!
ft) expires 6/30/Q4 i
XEROX INFORMATION 
MANAGEMENT
will be on campus Monday, September 27 at 7pm in 
Doherty Hall 1212. Representatives from Xerox will 
be present to discuss:
'An Overview ot the company; 
career opportunities in 
Information Management 
Organization."
Graduate and undergraduate students with majors in 
Computer or Information Science are invited to 
attend. Full time and summer positions are available.

---------------------------------------------------

ThtCrossword
By Jeffe Boats
What’s a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
Prepare To. penetrate. 
T(\e da.r^est- dopn^irts 
of irtfiVif'*. Cr6octvon/
i»v M. kfirj
u^'Verse. 
(S ours // Every piarvef-
i/iT^e Cosmos I,'es 
open of our feef /
I+knk r ief-f- 
tl^e. oven on.

---------------------------------------------------

^Iddy of Jprptal fiuflth*.
FRANK MIC'<rffa «bffl»** iqq 3
He IP >eu?
'Ye* v'^ feoM 
Tu^e Wv ?,p^
<p|V/lSie>fO'S KJAT(t>MAiU| .,'J
tvfe/te Pe.ofA sreeuuod^erii.' 
locfcL^M* (^'f€
PUre<3riwt TH€ «sMur-
T>ou>fj t,p rH^ <vrtr /,»¦ _
MATl «MA.C (PSKtCS. / /VtfT /V/fe
K'ry
u unites
Co5p
~r ¿A.
Sr?e¿
TV
600O LMC-tci
u>£ we*e bjotroettoc 1? 
toerj- YÉA* Y** 6«Y5 
CoticP 6|0£ US A 
J>oajATio^..,
Bo-v, / Lo0€ HoWED>mi/0í»! it's CR.FA"
To See ott> "Mie. 1lEng ierp ofscsvc7^ , ^Iyea, IMN eIwM
ooe oF-MS «A*
fcÉASANT MEtf' 
6W6S... HEY,
M THEl^?
j06U) Wi|Af? I V*** ffcoTESTÌMb im EtcCTION y OF A Cou/LT
gecAase awn ju^r s
¿ofmain a*>t#r.
U)k'H6 fMTEyiiiJG 7H6 WSf OF-A Tt6gfc As TMlS SCHOOL'S 
MASCoT— iT'S -p£CeAPI»OC To THe 8^ 7H6 WA-y;
lEATKfp. SHoeil
eie.€N>‘r (VHtA*. gWou¿A 
GET ZlttTtU, HUK? /
I'M P^o-re^Ti^G wdmP tcCwo
THAT AMPoft^-AMtytlcAWS J 
Arte uNsgii —Shwwhu sw c 
“ftU* HlfcH SCMo*u. ^
1 H*S VojAjv /V.
TA^IW €vgp- » vAefw veoseweiV
»HR MAScoT
0j5'/i£ ?&>T£SlV -TN£ AK/i/HAt-X KA*> ÍVéMí»»É l»W?
4^sH,0¿iw^ ls ««w*** 5* CArrf?
^gu-NT^
iHih v
CowtO Y«H TEU- Hi 
THAT A Teu^E-
At^tfUOAiü, i ¦Fifjfc
THA-T VE^Y
"J^/n-J5 F^fcfOSiUE^
tí
About the author,:,,
Jason Togyer was born in McKeesport, 
Pa. He is a sophomore double majoring in 
professional and technical writing, effec­
tively doubling his chances of being un­
employed upon graduation.
He is Tartan assistant news editor, sec­
retary of the Carnegie Mellon Railroad 
Club, and newsletter editor of the 
McKeesport Model Railroad Club. You 
may want to light a candle in his memory.
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSONVacationing from their jobs of terrorizing young 
teen-agers, zombies will often relax at a 
Western dead ranch.
After being frozen in ice for 10,000 years, Thag 
promotes his autobiography.
/^AndProfeiiorW^clCiS QUf >.
sp-f-the chufg ! .../-Hi howto J 
nefand e#ierfee fhatDmus pletfppus 
ir, less 'thar, 1ér\ Secords ifhehopes to win.'
Entomological rodeos“I wouldn’t laugh, Jack.... I know things about you.”At the Vatican’s movie theateiConvinced by his buddies that in actual fact they 
were only grave ‘‘borrowing,’’ a young Igor 
starts on his road to crime.

---------------------------------------------------

Y(X)R HEW 
Eaccf ARE 
INl DAD
A VAfS mAJORISY O, 
HOufEHOcD féY-YEAROcDf 
fAN fOJ'RE HOS uVING 
uE SO SHEIR EXEEûSASIONf 
O, ,ASHERHOOD.
WHAS WERE SuEIR ^ 
EXEEûSASIONf ? )
SHAS YOu'D 
RE mORE 
cIKE AH 
AuSOmASIû 
SEccER 
mAûHINE.
WHERE DO 
YOu EOccfSERf 
,IHD SHEfE 
REfEONDENSf?
nr
:|J§U.SNe
WA\S/ DONS u\S mE/ \ 
SHERE'f fOmESHING / 
ON YOuR RAûK/ /
I'm fERIOuf/ \Sf A 
mOSE/ YOuR mOm mufS'VE 
EINNED \S ON YOuR fHdRS.
11 /Yéwqed's ^
\T SAYS, " SOMEBODY 
RUM TU\S 601 OVER 
WITH A TRUCK
SHE mORE YOJ KNOWl SHE 
HARDER IS 15 SO SAKE 
DEûIfIVE AûSION-
ONûE fOu REûOmE 
IN,ORmED. éOu fSméS 
fEEING ûOmEcEXISIEf 
kND fumIEf ^f~
J? >c1n ¿1 ÊëuiH-n n
O, GRm. 7.^-^l
100 REAc\ZE SHAS NOS* 
\f Af ûcEAR AHO fImEcE 
Af IS ,IRfS AEEEARf. 
ucSImASEcYl KNOWcEDGE 
\f EARAcYZ\NG.
REING A WAN O, AûSIONl 
I ûAN'S A,,ORD SO SAKE 
SV1AS R^fK. ---------
mY Wmûu SEccf 
SHE SImE. SHE / ^
DAYl WAD SHE
DASE
IS DOEfNS SEcc V4uA" 
N\ONSV\ \S Ifl SHOuGH 
I NEED A WASûu 
SHAS SEuf SHE _ „ . 
MONTH.
I fuEEOfE SHEY ,\GORE 
I, YOu DOHS KNOW VnHAS 
mONSH \S \f. YOu’RE 
HOS SHE SYEE WHO'D 
VIE NR A WASûH.
HAVE YOJ REEN READING 
AR^uS SHE "EcEûSROu\< 
fuEERHIGHWAY''U
ERESSI fOONl ûOmEuSERfl 
SEcEEHONEf AND Sm s 
WIcc Acc RE ûfPUre 
SOGESHER SO RRnHG 
IHfSNuSKHEOOfl HSERAûSWE 
ûOmmuNIûASION RIGHS dKSO 
ÖJR HOmEf/
<sp e-e t-ho ûr wnUre ap 
<rpprd Dûrm huli û-e pP 
,P''sma,-pr <h '-aw1
AND fOu KNEW______>.
XOVJ WOucDN'S I 
HEm*. RAû< ,ROm ¡J. d J, 
ANYRODY ,OR *<G> f 
AS cEAfS A J"
WEEK
O, ûOuRfEl . A 
'(OuR. DAD SHINKf 
TRANSPORTATION 
fHOucDVE fSOEEED 
WISH SHE R\û(ûcE.
-2w.
I'm & 21 sr CENTURY 
K\D TRAPPED 
\N A Wtm 
ûEHSuRY 
,AmIcY.
BY r^lCKI KOGHANSKSJ 9-26
HOW THE 
BALD ÖBAZ.E 
XEALOTEGAN...
mnnK^boom!ZF~'
be a little
more cautious.
Well, I say I can do 
anything I want.
At least warn
but the fact is 
we don't really know 
x what happened.
What have WE 
worry about?
must be crazy, 
the same game
\ : ; //'^—-----------üi@y r
j'1 '/( I’ve been ^v-
s^Jisteningitp.—*-
\y
• ‘
You're talking like 
matter or
We've been running 
these things for... oh^
Mh “Wea te.DERER

---------------------------------------------------

DOWN SWING­
ING FOR. IN- 
TEÓRAWN.
'p&SlDENT KJN6,1 PONT THINK 0ni APPICCIATE JUST HOW 
STRESSFUL ms FOR. A STUDENT 
CrCOLORTOCOMETOA TRA~ 
i TCNALLY WHITE UNIVERSITY...
DOWN SWING­
ING FOR IN- 
TEÓRAWN.
A3W BROOKS, FOR YEARS MINOR­
ITIES AND WOMEN HAVE-FOUGHT 
TO ee INCLUDED IN THE CANON ' 
’¡OHJHY MUST THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS 
g STUDIED APART FROM IT?
BUT THAT ~
POWER STEMS FROM 
I SEPARATENESS! FEO- 
PIS APB DEVELOPING 
A VESTED INTEREST 
IN... IN.:: \
IT’S JUST THE EFFIGY, 
SIR. BUT
TartnN m-
NINGOJT.
IS THAT SMOKE?
YOUR PROPOSAL IS 
COMPLETELY INSENSI­
TIVE TO THE FEEUNGS OF 
MINORITIES ON THIS 
CAMPUS' IT 15 ILL- 
ADVISED, ILL-TIMED, 
AND SfAACKS OF 
RACISM!
' PRESIDENT KING. AS 
Dm OF MINORITY 
AFFAIRS. I MOST 
STRENUOUSLY PRO- 
TESTYCURDE- 
SEGREGA WN 
PlA'J
WELL, 
NOT OVER 
THIS. ITS 
,‘>1ARRJAGE- 
RELATED.
THEREFORE-. 
WE HAVE 
DRAWN UP 
A LIST OF 
2b DE­
MANDS...
INCREDIBLE. I FEEL LIKE 
I'M BACK IN 
THE '60S...
THEY'RE 
ON DISK.
YOU'LL FIND ALL 
26 OF OUR DE- I SEE.
MANDSONTHAT SO HOW 
«Sfe. DISK! POI ßSÜ^/ GET IN?
JUST DOUBLE-CLICK AH... 
ON THE "DEMANDS' HERE WE:
_____/ FILE. GO... ’i.
4jgU^ WE DEMAND
V** 7 THAT YOU
(v îr RESIGN..."
AND WHY DONT YOU SEE,
EXACTLY SIR! YOU DIP IT!
ARE WE YOU BROUGHT
ALL SMILES THE CAMPUS
ABOUT TOGETHER! 
THIS?
WOLU... SOME 
UNBELIEVABLY 
STRONG LANGUAGE 
IN THE STUDENTS' 
DEMANDS! x f
YOU MAY HAVE 
GOOD INTENTIONS, 
OLD FRIENP, BUT 
YOU'RE GOING 
STRAIGHT TO HELL 
FOR. THIS ONE !
OF COURSE 
I AM.
IMEU YOU ABOLISH THEME PORMSÌ 
I AND EATING TABLES, YOU'RE R£ - P 
\ MOVING VALUABLE SUPPORT 
1 SYSTEMS. TTSNOSUR- 
» M¡£\] PRJSE THE KJDS THINK 
-H YOU'RE A RACIST!
BROOKS, WHEN THIS SCHOOL 
FIRST OPENED ITS POORS TO 
BLACKS, IF I HAP CREATED 
SEPARATE DCRMS AND 
CAFETERIAS ON \
GROUNDS THAT N >
BLACKS WOULD'
BE MORE "COM-.
FORJABLE" IN 
THEM, WAT 
WOULD I 
HAVEBEEN 
CALLED?
SORRENTO’S
PIZZA
FREE DELIVERY! • $5.00 MINIMUM 
4:00pm - 1 1:00pm
Pin • CMU • OAKLAND
2 Hoaaies
LiterONLY$8.50
Come Spend Some Time In Italy!
233 Atwood 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
621-9129
HOURS:
Monday - Friday 1 1:00am - 1 1:00pm
Saturday
Traditional Large Pizza One Tof$5.f
4:00pm - 1 1:00pm
Buy Any 
Large Pizza 
Get a Liter of 
Pop FREE!
QUALIFIED TO RIDE.
MOTORCYCLE OPERATOR LICENSE
ANY STATE. USA
Unlicensed riders account for 
80% of the fatalities in some states. 
So get your motorcycle operator 
; license today. And prove 
that you can ride safely.
C MUlUowewrs t24hin 4akTd2i'aTN
WOMEN'S HEALTH SERVICES
the Gyne-logical choice
BACK TO SCHOOL DISCOUNT
$20.00 Exam Fee (1st time visits only)
Now through November 1, 1993
(PAP Test Not Included)
4* Screening/TesüngforSexuallyTransmittedDiseases 
4* Norplant /Depo Provera/Moming After Pill 
Mr Birth Control Counseling 
Convenient Downtown Pittsburgh Location(412) 562-1900
Confidential, Affordable, Accessible 
VISA MASTERCARD & INSURANCE ACCEPTED
(BRING THIS AO WITH YOU)
SIGN-UPS SEPTEMBER 29, 1993
Signet Banking Corporation is an equal opportunity employer and encourages women and minorities to apply. 
Signet promotes a drug-free workplace.
Ba lfourC sCRin gf .rfeC 
lfourC MSC Ma gtC dCLhE 
You TtRrC gtC THASCh NHLHfSD
As a strategic consultant in the Richmond, Washington, or Baltimore office of 
our $12 billion organization, you'll have:
? Immediate tesponsibility for implementation, follow-through, and follow-up
? Analytical challenge in an intense environment Ci/iXh”! **
R High Visibility vflL/ Ra? Fxcentional rewards ' Our vision is clear Vie want In be rcccwtizedA. EXCepnoncii rewcuus ^ 0,u, 0fnie /,«/ banks in Awcrica
ÏY Í- HTWYfM©ms
I WE THINK YOUR NEW 
1 POLICY TO DESEGREGATE 
THIS CAMPUS IS CATE­
GORICALLY RACISTT,
MISOGYNIST 
ANPREAC- 
" TIONARY!
WHAT AN IMPACT 
YOU'VE HAP, SIR!
I CANT BELIEVE 
THE CHORUS OF 
PEOPLE CALL­
ING FOR \ „
YOUR 
HEAD!
TOOW PORCI
UM..OKAY,
MOVE THAT HOW? I 
ONE TO LAST... GO UP TO 
I THE MENU
— ~‘-i, RIGHT?
PRESIDENTKING, WE PONT
REPRESENT THE MULTI- TUIME~ 
RACJAL, BI-GENDER YOU'VE 
/ STUDENT BANDED 
ALU- TOGETHER 
MICE... TDFROTEST 
. ¡PE END OF 
Z] SEPARATISM.
OKAY, I SEE A PROBLEM 
HERE. IF I RESIGN, HOW 
CAN I ACT ON ALE THESE 
OTHER DEMANDS?
I
THE STUDENTS, 
THE FACULTY. THE 
DEANS, THE ALUMNI, 
THE TRUS1EES, EVEN 
YOUR OWN STAFF 
ARE SCREAMING 
FOR YOUR - 
REMOVAL!
HELS Ror
tt£LL
SIR, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT-A 
DEPARTMENT 15 POWER! SEPARATE 
ETHNIC, AND WOMEN'S STUDIES 
DEPARTMENTS REPRE­
SENT POWERTO PEO-A 
PLEWHO'VE HIS­
TORICALLY BEEN 
DENIED IT!

---------------------------------------------------

To be considered for our closed schedules, submit your resume to the Office of Career
Services by 29 September Wednesday . CS Techn Boston
Nowyou can go to the library without leaving your room.
CD-ROM technology puts libraries of information at your finger- our CD gift pack. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. While you’re 
tips, and enables you to work with sound, video and animation. Buy there, ask about financing with the Apple Computer Loan: And ^ 
the Macintosh Centris"' 610 with CD-ROM drive, and you’ll also receive discover the power of Macintosh. The power to be your best, w
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
Interactive programs on CD-ROM 
cover every subject from politics to physiology. 
And the)’incorporate sound, animation, music 
and video clips. So ordinary topics become 
more exciting, involving and relevant.
Because a single CD-ROM disc stores more 
information than 500floppy disks, you’ll be able h 
instantly access enc)’clopedias, dictionaries and 
extensive databases—all with the click of a mouse.
Bring your papers, projects andpresentations to 
life by incorporating photos, clip art and a huge variety 
of type fonts—all available on CD-ROM.
Plug in a pair of self-powered 
speakers and the CD-ROM drive plays audio 
CDs too —so you can work away, 
while listening to your favorite music.
We’ll even help you start 
your own CD-ROM library. Bitv the 
Macintosh Centris 610 now, ana.you'll 
also receive the CD-ROM gift pack: 
two discs that include an electronic 
entyclopedia. a dictionary, interactive 
rock videos, music for your audio 
Macintosh Promo CD pia) vi¦ and more (worth $327r).
CD gift pack FREE
CD-ROM technology brings vast new 
capabilities to the desktop. Which is why, soon, 
more and more computers will include a CD-ROM 
drive. Buy one, and you’re making an 
investment that will last you well into the future.
Apple Madnlosh Centris™ 610 81230 
with CD-ROM, Macintosh Color Disfiay 
& Apple Extended Keyboard II. 
$2290

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Students show Gifts at Kresge
ByTARAM.SEMAN
Special to The Tartan
A world premiere at Carnegie Mellon? 
No, it wasn’t a software release. Gifts, 
the latest play by Arthur Giron, made its 
debut at the Kresge Theater. Giron is 
the head of GMLTs Graduate Playwriting 
Program and has also written the ac­
claimed plays, Edith Stein and Becom­
ing Memories.
Gifts is the story ofthe eccentric Wright 
family of Dayton, Ohio; that’s Wright as 
in Orville and Wilbur. The play focuses 
on their mother, Susan Wright, and her 
relationship with their traveling 
preacher father, Milton.
The cast as a whole was energetic and 
in good form. Emmi Shaw was excellent 
Susan Wright. The plain background 
that relied on lighting to indicate loca­
tion as well as the small number of props 
used allowed the audience to concen­
trate on the actors and the plot. This
worked in most parts of the perfor­
mance, but it was disconcerting at the 
beginning of the play when Susan and 
Milton were speaking lines to one an­
other without looking at each other. It 
wasn’t until later that I realized that 
they were reading from letters written 
to each other. The use of hymns rein­
forces the presence of the religious 
Milton Wright evenwhenhis character 
is not physically present on the stage.
The idea of exploring the formative 
years of famous inventors was an in­
spired one. Like the program says, “The 
play was inspired by the family of the 
Wright brothers. It is not a documen­
tary but a work of imagination which 
attempts to fathom the family’s mys­
teries in theatrical terms.”
The relationship between Orville and 
Wilbur is especially interestingbecause 
they squabble throughout the entire 
play. The audience never sees the coop­
eration that must have taken place to 
achieve their famous flight at Kitty
Hawk, but we know it must happen. 
Orville couldn’t achieve flight with his 
mechanical skills, nor could Wilbur 
achieve it with his dreams of flight.
Once again, their mother provides 
the necessary spark. She convinces 
Orville to help his brother with his 
dreams offlight. When their first trip to 
Kitty Hawk is unsuccessful, she sacri­
fices herself to unite the brothers so 
they can “join forces to soar into the 
clouds in search of their mother.”
The character of the great black poet 
Paul Laurence Dunbar is an interest­
ing addition to the somewhat eccentric 
Wright family. His quiet thoughtful­
ness mixed with outbursts of eloquence 
are a counterpoint to most of the Wright 
clan, who proclaim what they think or 
feel whenever it strikes them.
The Wright brothers’ inspiration ap­
peared as an aviator outfitted in white 
in the guise of German flight pioneer 
Otto Lillienthal. The Wrights rely 
heavily on the results of his experi­
ments in flying.
Overall, it was an enjoyable show. It 
had amusing moments of irony and 
touching sentimentality that wasn’t 
overdone. A guest appearance from 
Andrew Carnegie added to the experi­
ence for those of us here at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Gifts by Arthur Giron runs through 
October 2 at the Kresge Theater.
Rrdw Pwrdrs\ K<vnp ûw<p/S-Ud-p Ewrdr fd-ee m-p-D<U 
Above, Wilbur shows his new aerodynamic testing device to his mother and Orville. 
Right, brothers Orville and Wilbur read a letter from German aviator Otto Lillienthal.
Culkin evil in new film
By JENNIFER TURNER
Tartan Staffwriter
Macaulay Culkin has finally found 
his calling. As Henry, a psychotic 12- 
year-old cold-blooded killer, his perfor­
mance is so believable, it makes chills 
run down your spine. His performance 
is made all the more chilling by the 
somewhat comedic nature ofthe movie.
The movie begins with Mark {Elijah 
Wood) going to visit his mother in the 
hospital. When she dies, Mark’s father 
(Jack) is left with an uncomfortable 
choice. Immediately after the funeral, 
Jack must decide whether to stay with 
Mark and try to help him through his 
mother’s death or go abroad on busi­
ness. The business trip will set things 
up for them so that Jack will never 
have to leave Mark again. His brother, 
Wallace, finally convinces him to go on 
the trip. Wallace offers to take care of 
Mark until Jack returns.
Jack drives Mark cross-country to 
Maine, and after Jack leaves for his 
business trip, the real fun and games 
begin. Mark and his cousin, Henry, 
start off with a love/hate relationship. 
They have typical boyish fights the 
first night they are together. The first 
we see of Henry's unbalanced person­
ality is the next morning when the two 
boys climb up to Henry’s tree house. 
The only way up is by climbing un­
stable boards nailed to the tree. At the 
top, one of the boards gives way and 
Henry barely manages to catch Mark. 
As Henry holds him there by the hand, 
he asks him, “If I let you go, do you 
think you could fly?”
From this point onward, Henry leads 
Mark into increasingly psychotic ad­
ventures until Markis forced to realize 
that his cousin is more than a little 
twisted, and that he may, in fact, be 
evil. When he starts to deviate from
Henry’s program and threatens to tell 
Henry’s parents wh&t’s going on, Henry 
counters with a threat of his own. He’s 
noticed thatMarkloves Connie(Henry’s 
little sister) and in veiled words, Henry 
tells him that he’s going to kill her. 
Events quickly snowball and end in a 
disturbing climax.
Macaulay Culkin gives a good perfor­
mance as the psychotic Henry, and 
Elijah Wood holds his own as Mark. 
The movie also stars Culkin’s younger 
sister, Quinn — whose performance is 
a little uneven in parts — and features 
his brother, Rory. Wallace (David 
Morse) is virtually a non-entity in the 
movie and is only seen in key scenes. 
His performance is solid, but not espe­
cially noteworthy. Susan (Wendy 
Crewson), who is given slightly less 
screen time than Culkin and Wood, 
delivers a believable if somewhat re­
strained performance.
Some of the scenes are predictable, 
but overall, the movie is startling. Some 
of this effect may come from the fact 
that the psycho in this instance is only 
12 years old; this also makes the ending 
more disturbing.
I wouldn’t exactly call the movie a 
thriller, but it is suspenseful, while also 
darkly comedic.
Aside from plot and performance, 
other aspects of the movie worked well. 
The scenery and cinematography ofthe 
movie are excellent. The scenery em­
phasized and reinforced the action in 
the movie, not to mention that it was all 
breathtaking.
Out of five stars, I’d give this movie a 
three-and-a-half. The overall acting and 
plot development are good. The scenery 
is spectacular.
And while it’s predictable in parts, 
the plot has several unexpected twists 
and an ending which may leave you 
feeling a little disturbed.
Animation fest brings out the twisted in all of us
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
OK, let’s get something straight 
right from the beginning: this is 
not the kind of film you take your 
mother to see.
This is not Disney, this is not 
Saturday morning cartoons; the 
fact is, this is probably not like 
anything you have seen before. 
So throw away all of those pre­
conceived film ideas and try to 
hold on to your sanity because 
Spike & Mike’s all Sick & Twisted 
Festival of Animation is one wild 
ride.
For those of you who are unini- 
’tiated, Spike and Mike are the 
crazy duo who now spearhead 
much of MTV’s more incredible 
animated clips. Their work ap­
pears on shows like Liquid Tele­
vision and Beavis and Butthead, 
which is truly becoming the Spuds 
McKenzie of recent popular cul­
ture.
However, the majority of the 
material present in Spike & 
Mike’s would never be touched by 
'the likes of MTV let alone consid­
ered for actual release on their 
channel. The spectator must re­
alize before entering the theater 
to see this film that the works are 
not Spike and Mike’s alone but a 
'collection of animated clips from
a myriad of artists. Each of the 
artists have no reserves about 
presenting very controversial 
subjects in modem society. Even 
Spike and Mike seemed to let 
loose a little moreback when they 
filmed their contributions.
Yet it is refreshing to see this 
kind of subject matter presented 
in such a jovial light. Included 
are dismembered body parts, in­
fants being shamelessly tor­
mented, and more sexual mis­
conduct than you could shake a 
censorship board member at. The 
opening sequence of “Deep Sym­
pathy” alone would make most 
reasonable individuals turn their 
heads away and at least blush. 
Most incredibly however, is that 
not one person in the theater 
turned their heads away or even 
flinched for a moment. This film 
bombards its viewers with so 
much offbeat lunacy that it is 
very hard to look away from the 
screen. The spectator simply ends 
up being afraid that he or she 
might miss something. The cre­
ators of these animated vignettes 
have no problem presentingthese 
taboos to the spectator — why 
should the spectator have any 
difficulty in watching them? One 
can see the entire philosophy of 
the film as the end of “Pink 
Komkommer” playfully dances
the words “dedicated to those who 
disapprove but continue to watch” 
in front of the audience members’ 
faces.
The quality of animation var­
ies for each selection and at one 
point in the film, it seems that an 
individual could almost guess 
which artist is responsible for the 
piece that is being watched. Do 
not misunderstand, though, some 
sequences are incredible. The 
short piece “Lullaby” truly in­
vokes the feeling that the specta­
tor is alone, imprisoned in a soli­
tary crib, and watching his or her
mother slip through the door im­
mediately after she switches out 
the light.
All this would seem completely 
ordinary in everyday life, if not a 
little unsettling. It is not until 
the stuffed giraffe viciously at­
tacks the crib that the spectator 
finally recalls that he or she is 
watching Spike & Mike’s all Sick 
& Twisted Festival of Animation 
again.
Some of the animation also 
leans into really surreal and origi­
nal imagery. Not one scene that 
appeared during “Deadson” from
ûr'Ud<si re ,<sdnv-é Rnts 
“Pink Komkommer” was a compilation of eight filmmaker's different 
interpretations of the same suggestive soundloop.
“Deadtime Stories for Big 
Folks” would look out of place 
iflocatedonthe cover of a Sand­
man comic book. “Pink 
Komkommer”, which is a truly 
disgusting part of the film nev­
ertheless, has some dream se­
quences that are too removed 
from everyday life to be ig­
nored.
Anyone who wishes to see 
this film for the violent humor 
alone should not dismay, how­
ever, for there are enough body 
fluids present to keep the most 
insatiable gore fan satisfied. 
Some of the most mindless ac­
tion appears in “The Adven­
tures of Mutilator, Hero of the 
Wasteland” which is the 
epitome of all the classic Z- 
rated action films to hit the big 
screen.
It stars the Mutilator who 
basically goes around and mu­
tilates. Amidst all the may­
hem, most of which he is caus­
ing, he stops, approaches a 
young boy whose arm had just 
been sawed off, and proceeds 
to ask him in a true 
stereotypically action-hero 
style whether he is all right. At 
this display of heroics, no one 
in the audience could keep a 
straight face. I guess we are all 
sick and twisted at heart.
Studio show 
suprises
By SUSAN STUART
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Entertainment-seekers may 
have gotten more than they bar­
gained for in seeing the junior 
studio play, The Rover, that ran 
this past weekend. The audience 
was stupefied not only by the 
many licentious jokes and vulgar 
gesturing, but also by an exhibi­
tion of nudity that was nothing 
short of shocking. The action was 
high-pitched and the story full of 
ribaldry to an extent that was 
overwhelming and a bit distaste­
ful at times.
The story wasn’t what you 
would expect from the first fe­
male professional playwright, 
Aphra Behn, who was a spy dur­
ing the Dutch war in the 17th 
century. The vaguely Shakes­
pearean plot was one of boy- 
meets-girl several times over with 
a mixture of mistaken identities, 
swift chases, and comical quips. 
While at first the dialogue built 
toward a thoughtful commentary 
on male-female relationships 
from a female point of view, the 
message turned out to be any-
thing but thoughtful or clear.
Eé<-s< s<< ROVER, cH
New Believer release sounds more musical, religious than death
Dimensions
****
Latest release from Believer, on Roadru- 
nner Records.
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
If right at the beginning of this re­
view I described Believer’s third al­
bum, Dimensions, as death metal, it 
would probably turn many people off. 
But before you stop reading, just read 
the names of two people who are cited
for lyrical influences: Stephen Hawkins 
for A Brief History of Time and Albert 
Einstein for his Theory of Relativity. 
Now that I’ve got the attention of the 
physics majors, maybe this will interest 
the music majors. There are four mem­
bers of Believer: Kurt Bachman on vo­
cals/guitars, Jim Winters on bass, Joey 
Daub on drums, and Scott Laird on vio­
lins. Also, side two is an opera. To top 
things off, in a genre of music that has 
openly satanic groups like Morbid Angel 
and Deicide, Believer is a Christian act. 
Certainly not the typical death metal 
group.
The first side of Dimensions is more 
like traditional death metal. Kurt 
Bachman’s vocals are better than aver­
age death metal vocals, which are usu­
ally growls and belches, so that is an­
other reason it is easier to listen to them. 
The lyrics are also much better than 
those of most death metal bands, with 
topics such as the existence of God 
(“Dimentia”), creation (“Singularity”), 
and the reason for man’s existence 
(“What Is But Can Not Be”). How do you 
doubt lyrics that are footnoted with books 
from the Bible, Sigmund Freud, and 
Jean-Paul Sarte?
Now the second side of this tape is 
what really convinced me that Believer! 
is one of a kind. Not only is this entire 
side an opera (and a mighty good one at 
that), but it tells the story of The Bible in 
three movements. First comes an in­
strumental intro called “The Birth,” 
which is quite impressive. Somehow I 
never thought a violin would sound this 
great along with an extremely heavy
electric guitar. The first movement, “The 
Lie,” covers the story of Original Sin 
from the book of Genesis. Julianne Laird, 
the soprano singing various parts of this 
opera, has an excellent voice. The sec­
ond and third movements, “The Truth” 
and “The Key,” move up into the New 
Testament and to the present.
Believer is an original and innovative 
group in a genre that is predominately 
generic. Because of this, Believer 
shouldn’t be characterized as “death 
metal” because that would undeservedly 
turn people away from this intelligent, 
musically diverse, inspiring band.
**** Pretty damn good.
*** Not so good.
** Wait and buy it used.
* Just plain bad._______© 1993 Rr-hU'pp<U R<orUhs

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993Gimmick covers offer few options
Well, after three weeks of griping about gim­
mick covers in my columns, I’m finally going to 
spend this week’s column talking about nothing 
else but gimmick covers. I’m not really sure when 
gimmick books started but the first one I saw and 
purchased was issue # 57 of The Punisher. It had 
a wanted poster for Frank Castle (the Punisher) 
that was made from a grocery bag type paper that 
was over the normal comic cover. I had been a 
regular reader of The Punisher so the cover had 
nothing to do with my buying it, although it had 
been pretty impressive. So, initially I had been a 
bit fond of gimmick covers.
Months passed and I really didn’t notice many, 
if any, more gimmick covers. As far as I can 
remember the next book with a special cover was 
The Punisher War Zone which I really liked. That 
was the beginning of the flood of premium covers. 
Week after week I began to see hologram covers, 
bagged books with trading cards, and foil-inked 
covers. The novelty wore off for me very quickly as 
my summer job expired and my wallet became 
thinner and thinner each week. Finally, I became 
more picky about the books I bought, and the ones 
with the cover enhancements were the first to go, 
unless I was a really big fan of the book. If a new 
book had a first issue with a gimmick cover, I 
passed it up. This makes me very angry that I 
missed out on a lot of books because I couldn’t 
afford the bagged-with-trading-card, foil-stamped, 
holographic, die-cut, raised print, fold-out, chro­
mium, glow-in-the-dark covered book with the 
same amount of pages as a regular book, due to the 
high price tag. Actually, you might think I’m being 
a little too harsh, so I’ll try 
and be more objective by 
making a list of my favorite 
and least favorite gimmick 
books.
Favorites
1. Superman #75 — You 
just can’t beat the mourn­
ing armbands. $2.50
2. Shamen’s Tears #1 —
Simple but very eye-catch­
ing. $2.50
3. Batman #500 — Two 
great Joe Quesada covers 
and two neat postcards.
$3.95
4. Punisher War Zone #1 
—Bullet holes and the Pun­
isher are great together.
$2.25
5. Amazing Spider-Man 
#365, Spectacular Spider- 
Man #189, Web of Spider- 
Man #90, all $2.95, andSpi- 
der-Man #26. $3.50 — I 
just liked the way the cover 
served as a frame for the 
holograms.
Least Favorites
1. Shamen’s Tears #2 —
Comic Book Chronicles
By Jason Andracki
The biggest cover ever but you have to tear it to see 
it. $3.50
2. Superman #82 — What is chromium anyway? 
$3.50
3.RobinII #1-5—Too many different covers and 
unimpressive holograms. $1.50 each
4. All Marvel 1993 Annuals — Who really needs 
a dumb new character trading card? Various prices
5.Cyberforce #4 — They could have least used 
good art, not a close-up. $2.50
The reason I hate cover enhancements mostly 
has to do with their price. I have to say that some 
gimmicks are nice, but they really add nothing to 
the book. What DC and Image do sometimes is 
release two versions of a book, the gimmick cover 
version and a regular version. The only problem 
with doing that is the regular versions usually only 
make it to the news stands and bookstores, and 
these places aren’t reliable and don’t put out comics 
at the same time comic shops do.
How am I supposed to know if Waldenbooks is 
going to have the regular version of Union #1 before 
the comic shop sells out of the gimmick version? So 
I buy the enhanced version because I won’t knowfor 
a while and I m ay never be able to get it if I wait too 
long.
This brings me to ask my 
readers for a favor once 
again. If you agree with my 
comments this week even 
one little bit, please write to 
your favorite comic book 
publishers and ask them to 
do one of two things: 1) Quit 
making gimmick books or, 
2) Offer a regular version to 
the comic shops for every 
enhancement.
I’d like to thank Ben Peal 
for answering my question 
about Superpatriot.
Jason Andracki is a fresh­
man professional writing 
major who hopes tyou 
willalso write your favorite 
comic book columnist. 
Please send your responses 
to The Tartan, Skibo 50, cl
o Diversions, Comic Book 
Chronicles, or drop re­
sponses electronically into 
the Diversions folder on the© 1993 m-Uv<é ûrtnos
An example of a bad gimmick cover Is Excallbur Tartan server, Skibo zone, 
Annual #1, bagged with a trading card. withthename“comic.letter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
If you think you've come far in the 
past four years, you won't believe 
how far you could go in the next five.
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical 
background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you:
The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management 
Program (TTMP).
The most comprehensive training program of it's kind in the 
financial services industry, TTMP is a five-year introduction to 
a state-of-the-art telecommunications environment. Through a 
variety of rotational assignments and supplemental classroom 
study, TTMP is singly focused on developing the managers who 
will keep us on the cutting edge.
TTMP is not easy and it's not for everyone. But, if you're looking 
to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most 
sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there's 
simply no better place to begin your career.
To find out more...
Please visit us at the Technical 
Opportunities Conference on:
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
Contact the Career Center for 
additional information.
ThélravelersT"You’re better off under the Umbrella.®
An Equal Opportunity Employer
PllZZled...About Technical Career Opportunities?
Technical Opportunities ConferenceTuesday, September 28 Skibo 10:00 - 4:00
Information SessionWednesday, September 29 DH 1212 7:00-8:30
(refreshments available)
Explore the possibilities in a number of challenging areas:
• Product Development
• Management Systems
• Manufacturing
All Technical Academic Majors Welcome!
Collecting resumes for both fulltime & summer positions.
Let Procter & Gamble help you put the pieces together.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 27 September 1993
IHSCPR ScopE
Thursday, September 30
Paris, Texas
Based on the book by Sam Shepard, Paris, 
Texas is a movie about a man who tries to piece 
his life together after being away from home for 
four years. Its rather slow-moving plot gradu­
ally unfolds as he attemps to win back the love of 
his wife and son.
Movie critics rave about fine performances by 
Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassia Kinski, Aurore 
Clement, Hunter Carson, and Bernhard Wicki. 
Actor Dean Stockwell, who has credits in Mar­
ried to the Mob and The Player, stars in this 
motion picture as well. Cinematographer Robby 
Muller is also noted for his excellent work on this 
film, as is Wim Wenders for his set design illus­
trating the rich atmosphere of the South.
Watch Paris, Texas to see what all this hype is 
about!
At 6, 8:45, and 11:15 pm.
Friday, October 1
Hot Shots Part Deux
Charlie Sheen is back in a sequel to the first 
Hot Shots released in 1991. Just as Hot Shots 
includes a number of silly takeoffs from Top 
Gun, Rocky, and Dances With Wolves, Hot Shots 
Part Deux includes takeoffs from Rambo, Basic 
Instinct, and Terminator 2. Lots of gags are 
involved, but not all of them are as innovative 
and comical as the gags in Hot Shots. Similar to 
Naked Gun 2 112: The Smell of Fear, this flick 
empties its bag of tricks much sooner than it 
should.
Hot Shots Part Deux is the movie to see if 
you’re in the mood for mindless humor. I can’t 
promise you that you’ll be rolling out ofyour seat, 
but at least you’ll get in a laugh or two.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, October 2
Sommersby
Richard Gere stars as Jack Sommersby in this 
romantic drama set in the post-Civil War period. 
Since Sommersby is presumed dead after the 
war, his return to his home town several years 
later is a shock to everyone. His wife, played by 
Jodie Foster, is particularly stunned not only by 
his reappearance but also by his change in atti­
tude. He turns their once bitter marriage into a 
passionate love affair. In similar respects, he 
leads his town back to prosperity with innova­
tive ideas and driving determination. Aside from 
his accomplishments, however, suspicions arise 
as to whether Sommersby is truly the man he 
says he is. The mystery unfolds ...
Director Jon Amiel is highly respected in the 
field of British movie and television production. 
His film Queen of Hearts opened the Cannes 
Film Festival and was named best first film at 
the Montreal World Film Festival.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, October 3
How To Make A Monster
This 1958 horror movie involves a studio 
makeup artist who flips out and turns his clients 
into zombie-like murderers. Herbert Strock, 
Walter Reed, and Gary Clarke star. Although 
mostly in black and white, the last 18 minutes of 
the film are in color.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By TARA ZANE
The Best of the Best of the 
Cannes TV and Film 
Commercials (1975-1984)
A collection of 118 award-win­
ning and often funny commercials 
from around the world. (Pittsburgh 
Playhouse; 7 and 9 pm Friday 
through Sunday)
The Best of Warner 
Brothers Cartoons
A collection of the best of classic 
Warner Brothers cartoons. (Pitts­
burgh Playhouse; 7:30 and 9:30pm 
Friday)
Boxing Helena
Jennifer Lynch, daughter of David 
Lynch, directed this film about a 
doctor who takes possession of the 
woman he desires by amputating 
her limbs. (Beehive; 9:45 pm daily)
The Fugitive
This action-packed chase film in 
the spirit of the original TV series 
stars Harrison Ford as Dr. Richard 
Kimble. (TheManorTheater; 5, 7:45, 
9:40 pm daily)
The Good Son
Macaulay Culkin plays a psychotic 
son who does evil things to his 
good cousin. [The Manor Theater; 
5:30, 7:30, 9:30 pm daily)
Like Water for Chocolate
A mystical and passionate Mexi­
can film about a man who is forbid­
den to marry the woman he ioves. 
(Beehive; 5:30 pm dally)
Manhattan Murder Mystery
This new Woody Allen film Is 
about an aging couple who try to 
fire up their marriage by solving a 
murder mysteiy. (Squirrel Hill Cin­
ema World; 5:20, 7:30, 9:40 pm 
daily)
Monty Python and the Holy Grail
Monty Python's interpretation of 
the famed Arthurian legend. (Pitts­
burgh Playhouse; 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
Saturday)
Much Ado About Nothing
Kenneth Branagh directs this en­
ergetic film version of the 
Shakespeare classic. Stars Oscar 
award-winner Emma Thomson, 
Michael Keaton, Denzel Washing­
ton, Keanu Reaves, and Branagh. 
(TheManorTheater;5:20,7:40,9:50 
pm daily)
The Panama Deception
Recently banned from broadcast 
by PBS, this Academy Award-win- 
ningdocumentary investigates what 
was behind the 1989 US invasion of 
Panama. (Beehive; 7:45 pm dally)
The Program
A coach goes too far in pushing 
his college football team to the limit. 
(TheManorTheater; 5:10, 7:45,9:45 
pm daily)
Provincial Actors
Agnieszka Holland’s first feature 
film takes a wry look at a provincial 
Polish acting troupe. In Polish with
English subtitles. (CamegleMuseum 
of Art Theater; 8 pm Saturday)
Rear Window
1954 Hitchcock classic starring 
Jimmy Stewart as a photographer 
who starts watching his neighbors 
and ends up seeing a murder. 
(CamegleMuseum oFArtTheater; 8 
pm Friday)
Seven Brides for Seven Brothers
1954 musical film about seven 
brothers who want to get married. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30 and 9:30 
pm Sunday)
Spike and Mike's all Sick and
Twisted Festival of Animation
This collection of 18underground 
animation hits is full ofcartoonsyou 
shouldn't let your little sister watch. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30, 9, 
10:30 pm Monday through Thurs­
day)
Striking Distance
Bruce Willis stars in this film about 
a Pittsburgh river patrol cop, filmed 
entirely in Pittsburgh. (Squirrel Hill 
Cinema World; 6:05, 8, 9:55 pm 
daily)
True Romance
A loner meets his dream girl in 
the local movie theater, and ends 
up running from gangsters and the 
police after he tries to defend her 
honor.
Stars Christian Slater and Patricia 
Arquette. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 5, 7:25, 9:40 pm dally)
Un Coeur en Hiver (A Heart 
in Winter)
French film about two friends 
whose lives are disrupted when 
they fall in love with ayoung violin­
ist. In French with English subtitles. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7 and 9 pm 
dally)
Wax, or the Discovery of 
Television Among the Bees
FilmmakerDavid Blair presents us 
with this surreal video dreamscape. 
A man in New Mexico keeps bees 
that speak to him about his 
grandfather's,fetal association with 
them. (Filmmakers at the Fulton; 8 
pm Thursday) \
The Wedding Banquet
International award-winningcom- 
edy about a successful gay Taiwan- 
ese-American businessman who 
engages in a marriage of conve­
nience to ayoung Chinese artist. In 
Chinese and English with some En­
glish subtitles. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton)
Theatre locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
The Manor Theater:
1729 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse:
222 Craft Ave.
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave.
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater: 
4400 Forbes Ave.
By TINA L. URSO
Comedy stuns audience with lewd humor
ROVER, from L9
Although many lewd but funny 
moments earned great whoops of 
laughter from the audience, sev­
eral scenes totally disrupted the 
humorous love-or-lust theme of 
the play. One was the hurtful
realization ofher lover’s betrayal 
by Angellica Bianca, played by 
Kristin Sentman. While well per­
formed, the scene was totally out 
of context because it dramatized 
the consequences of infidelities 
that were made light of in the
rest of the play.
There was also a scene of at­
tempted rape that was anything 
but humorous, and a display of 
male frontal nudity that shocked 
the audience to the point of total 
distraction.
It is odd that the first female 
playwright made her mark in 
such a way. Her play is not likely 
to be one that women historians 
will boast about. It is also not 
likely to be forgotten by the audi­
ence at CMU this weekend.
ImmigrationServices
VENSREfûAl VENSREfûA & WAcKER 
also provides landlord/tenant services 
(special discounted $50.00 student rate 
for lease review), immigration and 
discrimination/civil rights litigation 
services to students and faculty.
CONTACT: 
Lisa Ventresca
mseyHsong/ TseyHsong r tgaAsH
Attorneys at Law
The Westin William Penn Hotel
530 William Penn Place • Suite 357 • Box 88
Pittsburgh • Pennsylvania • 15219
Phone: (412) 261 • 5366 Fax: (412) 261 • 5369
THE MERCEDES GREAT PERFORMERS SERIES
Experience a rare opportunity to hear three great orchestras in Heinz Hall!
MASUM!
THE GEWANDHAUS ORCHESTRA
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1993 8:00 pm
BEETHOVEN tamcnt Overlure MUSSORGSKY Pictures at an Exhibition SCHUMANN Sympnony No. 2
ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1994, 8:00 pmHAYDN Symphony No. 91 DVORAK Serenade (or Winds. Opus 44 MOZART Piano Concerto No. 18 BARTÓK Rumanian Dances
ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
MONDAY, MARCH 14,1994 8:00 pm
Vaughn V/illiams Fantasia on a Theme BARBER Symphony No. 1 by Thomas Tal!is BARTÓK Symphony No. 6
It doesn't get any greater than this, j concerts for 
as little as $45! Order your season tickets today.CALL 392-4900
Ite tRAAhefuai nNwMi,gNl k,uRg dIImp2 • Music 5RupFA,u
SUPER EYEWEAR PACKAGE
Bausch and Lomb offer like a pot of gold
1 Pair Bausch and Lomb Contact Lenses SPH 
1 Pair Bausch and Lomb "Tinted Contacts SPH
1 Pair eyeglasses A + to-4 
1 Pair Designer style Sunglasses, too N.R.
EXTENDED WEAR 
ADD $20mm
» *
DAILY WEAR 
BAUSCH AND LOMB 
COMPLETE PACKAGE
Remember, that’s 4 pair of eyewear 
complete package includes:
1 pr. Bausch and Lomb 0
1 pr. Eyeglasses RX 0
1 pr. Designer Style Sunglasses NP
1 pr. Bausch and Lomb Tinted 0
Lens Solution and Fitting Fee 0
Service Agreement (Warranty) 0
Unlimited Visits and Checkups tor 1 Year 0 
AO Sept Care Add$1C
Most of our patients wear them 
homo the same day<<.ur lVnniIl«jinj •. |jiq.-,tcantjct leni .ino cyivjlj» cri
EYE EXAM
By 3 Independent 
Doctors of Optometry
EYE EXAM INCLUDED
Withs9999 Pot of Gold 
Package Purchase
UU3T PRESENT THIS AD FOR THIS OFFER
2 PAIR OF EYEGLASSES ONE 
CLEAR AND ONE SUNGLASSES
S.V. to A + or - 
same prescription
standard bilocals 
$15 per pair extra 
with this coupon
DESIGNER FRAMES By
Perry Ellis, Cazel, Silhouette, Laura 
Blagiotti, E.K., Bugle Boy
Giorgio Armani, Guess?, & many more
30% Off with this coupon
DISPOSABLE CONTACT LENSES 
Bauch and Lomb "METALIST
THROW THEM AWAY 
EVERY 3 MONTHSamms
WW 1 YR!
Change BROWN Eyes to BLUE 
Green, Hazel, or Misty Grey
Special$8999
DuraSoft Contact Lenses D.W.
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Predoctoral Fellowships in Biological Sciences_______
1994 Competition
66 fellowships will be awarded for full-time study toward the 
Ph.D or Sc.D. degree in cell biology and regulation, genetics, 
immunology, neuroscience, structural biology, biostatistics, 
epidemiology, or mathematical biology.
Fellowship Terms
i Three-year initial awards, 
with two-year extension 
possible
I $14,000 annual stipend 
I $12,700 annual cost-of- 
education allowance
Eligibility
i Less than one year of post­
baccalaureate graduate 
study in biology: 
college seniors; 
first year graduate students; 
M.S., D.O., D.D.S., D.V.M., 
students or professionals
i If an M.DTPh.D. student: 
not in a funded program 
i No citizenship requirements: 
U.S. citizens may study 
abroad;
others must study in the 
United States
Schedule
i Application deadline: 
November 5,1993 
i Awards announced: 
early April 1994
¦ Fellowships start:
June 1994-January 1995
For Program Announcements, Eligibility 
Guidelines, and Applications
Hughes Predoctoral Fellowships 
National Research Council Fellowship Office 
2101 Constitution Avenue 
Washington, DC 20418 
Telephone (202)334-2872
The Howard Hughes Medical Institute welcomes applications from all qualified 
candidates and encourages women and members of minority groups to apply.
i

---------------------------------------------------

il
Ra
UN I V ERSy,t\Lmm
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 
with CMUID;$2 otherwise. Admission 
to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, lo­
cated at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Paris, Texas will show in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8:45, knd 11:15 pm.
Hot Shots, Part Deux will play Fri­
day in DH 2210 at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
Sommersby shows in DH 2210 on Sat­
urday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
How to Make a Monster plays in DH 
2210 Sunday at 6,8,10 pm, and mid­
night.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize 
your foreign language skills at the 
International Language Tables held 
daily over lunch. Sponsored by the 
Modem Languages Department, all 
language tables are held in the Gradu­
ate Student Coffeehouse, with the ex­
ception of the Russian language table, 
held in the Faculty Dining Room. Times 
are as follows: Mondays: La Table 
Française from noon-1:30 pm; Tues­
days: Russkii Chas from 12:30-1:30 
pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa Española 
from 11:30 am-12:30 pm; Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch from 11:30 am— 
12:30 pm; and Fridays: Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de from 12:30—1:20 pm.
The Junior Class Round Table will 
hold a meeting tonight in Skibo 201 at 
10 pm. For more information, contact 
Katie Stannard at X8-2075.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okin­
awan Karate. Beginners are welcome 
to watch or participate.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5-7 pm, 
in addition to regular office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. For more information, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Technical Opportunities Con­
ference will be held tomorrow from 10 
am~4 pm in Skibo.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds its meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
Are you concerned about the is­
sues of eating disorders, body 
weight, and self esteem? If so, you
are welcome to attend a weekly support 
group to discuss these issues and oth­
ers. Meetings will be held Tuesdays in 
Health Services from 7:30-8:30 pm.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room in the Gymnasium 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm, Thurs­
days at 7:30 pm, and Sunday after­
noons at 1:30 pm. All levels of skill are 
welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Mondays and Wednesdays at 9 pm in 
Activity room A and Sundays at 2 pm in 
Activity room B. For more information 
email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group, provides a weekly forum for stu­
dents inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are 
held Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 236. For more infor­
mation, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are held 
every Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 
7 pm. All members of the campus com­
munity are welcome to attend and speak 
their mind during audience participa­
tion.
The Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir 
and Wind Ensemble will perform in 
concert tomorrow at 8 pm in the Carn­
egie Music Concert Hall. Tickets are $4 
for CMU students, faculty, and staff. 
For more information, call x8-2383.
The Pittsburgh Symphony will per­
form Beethoven’s finest works this 
Thursday through Saturday at Heinz 
Hall. All performances begin at 8 pm.
Local rockers Don Cabellero will 
hold a record release party for their 
debut CD For Respect this Saturday at 
8 pm. The party will be held at the 
Squirrel Hill American Legion, located 
at 5857 Forbes Ave.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm 
at the Heinz Chapel. For more informa­
tion about other Heinz Chapel events, 
call 682-6886.
> 1993 W-Up<U RUrs.
Richard Gere and Jodie Foster star in the romantic Sommersby, an epic tale of love 
and deception, playing Friday in DH 2210.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Thursday at 5:30 
pm in the CMU Women’s Center. If 
your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas­
ters Club sponsors a speech communi­
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li­
brary in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is 
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at the Cathedral of 
Learning. Free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at683-7770 for more 
information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ- 
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) 
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, callx8-2114.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Wo­
men’s Discussion Group meets the 
first Thursday of every month at 8 pm 
in the CMU Women’s Center. Ques­
tioning? Come to the discussion group 
for friendly talk and fun.
A Rational Recovery (RR) support 
group for those with alcohol or drug 
problems meets every Friday at 7:30 
pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Cen­
ter Building in Squirrel Hill. For more 
information on this and other RR meet­
ings in the Pittsburgh area, please call 
261-5363.
The Dagorhir group of Live-Action 
Medieval Fantasy Battle meets ev­
ery Friday and Saturday at midnight 
in front of Hunt Library. Anyone inter­
ested is encouraged to drop by. Train­
ing and weapons will be provided for 
interested parties.
Attention Juniors! Watch for the 
Homecoming cook-out Saturday on the 
Cut. at 11:30 am.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net­
work is looking for student parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information, 
call cr write David Pegher at x2-4840, 
Box 1107, or email dp31.
prior to all Masses, approved by His 
Eminence Bishop Donald Wuerl. Call 
766-0950 for more information.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates Mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39, Monday through 
Friday. WeekendMasses are celebrated 
at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. Formore 
information, call the Newman Oratory 
Center at 681-3181.
Ecumenical Holy Communion,
sponsored by the Episcopal, Lutheran, 
and United Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible 
study at 7 pm on Thursdays. For more 
information, call x2-2484.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day,
sponsored by the Lutheran Campus 
Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 pm in 
the Heinz Chapel. For more informa­
tion, call 682-6886.
The Church of theAscension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in the chapel lo­
cated on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Brian VanderWel at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
« I,
Chatham’s environmental exhibit 
Ground8well: Art for the Earth will 
run through Saturday, October 30, at 
the Chatham College Art Gallery. For 
gallery hours and other information, 
please call 365-1140 Monday through 
Friday.
The Hewlett Gallery exhibit Out of
the Ordinary: Good Design for $20 or 
Less closes Friday. For gallery hours 
and other information regarding the 
Hewlett Gallery, call x8-3618.
Sohrab Vossoughi, founder and prin­
cipal of the successful product design 
company Ziba Design, will speakThurs- 
day in conjuction with the current 
Hewlett Gallery exhibit Out of the Or­
dinary: Good Design for $20 or Less. 
This exceptional lecture will begin at 6 
pm in MM 103.
Mark Millstein, CMU art faculty,
will lecture Tuesday in this week’s seg­
ment of the Art Department Lecture 
Series. All lectures are free and begin 
at 5 pm in DH 2315.
Thriving in the Academy: A Wel­
come Back Reception Honoring 
Graduate Women is the title of 
Thursday’s panel discussion for and 
about women sponsered by the Gradu­
ate Student Association, to be held in 
the Faculty Dining Room at 4:30 pm.
Color Crop, Style and Substance’s 
new autumn exhibit, runs through. 
November at the Style and Substance 
Art Gallery. For more information, call 
834-9299.
The football team plays Allegheny 
College in the Homecoming game this ' 
Saturday at 2 pm in Gesling Stadium.
The women’s soccer team will play 
at Seton Hill College this Wednesday 
at 4 pm.
The men’s and women’s soccer 
teams play at Emory University this 
Sunday. The women’s game begins at 1 
pm; the men’s match starts at 3 pm.
The men’s soccer team plays at New 
York University at 1 pm on Friday.
The women’s volleyball team will 
play against Carlow College tomorrow 
at 6 pm in the Gymnasium.
t
The women’s volleyball team plays 
against the College of Wooster this 
Saturday at Wooster at 1 pm.
The crew team will compete Satur­
day in the Head of the Ohio regatta, ' 
one of the largest head races of the 
. season. Races will be held from 9 am-3 
pm, meeting in the Roberto Clemente 
Park. Free parking is available in Lot 4 
of Three Rivers Stadium.
Broadway actor Bruce Kuhn will 
perform The Accounts of Luke tomor­
row through Saturday in the Adamson 
Wing. Performances begin at 7:30 pm. 
Tickets are $3 with CMU ID, $5 other-
Gifts, written by Arthur Giron and 
directed by Gregory Lehane, will be 
performed through Saturday by the 
CMU Drama Department. For perfor­
mance times and other information, 
call X8-2407.
Athol Fugard’s Playland premieres 
Wednesday at 8 pm at the City Theatre 
on SouthSide. For ticket prices, direc­
tions to the theatre, and other show 
information, call the City Theatre box 
office at 431-CITY.
Francis,
Cake smeared all over your face re­
ally accentuates your hair 
Love and Kisses,
The 4 Guys
Leave me alone, go away, or find a 
hobby 
— Nick
Akron Molly,
Catch me! catch me! If you can, but if 
you do, I’ll be with your man
;y, ein Zimmer!
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave,
offers the Traditional Latin Mass 
(Tridentine Mass) Sundays at 8:30 am 
(Low) and 11:45 am (High), first Fri­
days of the month at 7:30 pm, and first 
Saturdays at 9 am. Confession and the 
Holy Rosary are offered 30 minutes
mad easily
