Œije -lânbergroutth £iefaispaper of Carncgie-3®îeüon ^niUereitg, ÿtttaburgi], Çennaçltoania 15213, Volume .7, ^Number 2.3, ^Aprtl l, 1981.
New administrator eager 
to assume position at CMU
by Stan Archie Testin
Meet Dorothea Fusilage, the new vice- 
chairmanette of the Admissions office. 
Fusilage comes to CMU with a marketing 
degree from trhe University of California at 
Baton Rouge. Ms, Fusilage’s duties will 
include organizing recruiting seminars and 
personally screening potential applicants.
“I’ve been at this job for only two months 
and I’ve already set a “house record” for 
admissions. I love admissions,” cooed Ms. 
Fusilage in a recent Natrat interview.
“Big S.A.T. scores aren’t all that impor­
tant to us. Whoever says that’s all we are 
looking for is wrong,” explained the new 
administratress. When asked what qualities 
she did look for in the potenual applicant, 
Fusilage said she likes sensitive applicants 
with a sense of humor; someone who 
respects the school for what it is.
“One thing that especially rankles me are
premature applicants. They only serve to 
mess up our files. I wish they could just wait 
until we’re ready for them,” gripes the col­
lege graduate. “They’re even worse than the 
guys who just can’t get their applications in 
on time. I mean that happens to everyone 
once in a while.”
When asked to give advice to potential 
applicants, Fusilage stressed extra­
curricular activités. “Keep that school record 
going up ,up ,up, up, up. That’s what's 
going to impress this admissions gal,” 
laughed Fusilage.
Fusilage is living in an apartment above 
Gino and Pete’s until she finds a better 
apartment. “It’s fine because it’s close to 
campus. I can condnue personal interviews 
in my apartment after Warner Hall closes,” 
she explains.
Dorothea Fusilage, an administrator 
whose heart is really in her work.
CMU: Robots 1, students 0
S: Oh yes.
N: Could you tell us about them?
S: Sure. Jim Flag and Raj Robot have 
already unveiled plans to incorporate robots 
into the athletic program. That should be
another way to save lots of money, and give 
us winning teams. We will also save money 
on the terminals we were planning to install 
in the dorms. Now, we can just run cables 
into Skibo for the Student robots to plug Dorothea Fusilage, the new vice-ehairmanette in admissions, is open for suggestions on how to handle her new job. 
continued on page 4
GSO fights back against University authority
by Miss Quote
Once again, The Natrat followed the 
beloved president of CMU, Dr. Dick Sire, to 
his vacation hideaway on the island of
Grunt over spring break. This year, the 
topic was Robotics and the future of CMU. 
The following are excerpts from that 
interview.
Natrat: Dr. Sire our first question is on 
robots and their integration into the univer­
sity community.
Sire: Well, we are not using the word 
integration, but robots will become part of 
the university community. In fact, they will 
be the university community once the five 
year plan is completed.
N: What five year plan is that?
S: I’m not sure if Little Dickie Van 
Scrooge, I’m Big Dickie-is ready to unveil it 
yet, but what the heck, I’m in charge here, 
sort of. Starting this fall, we will include 
robots as members of the incoming fresh­
man class, and will increase the percentage 
of robots each year for the next five years 
until, in the fall of 1986, the entire cljass will 
be comprised of robots. Also, we will only 
accept robots as transfer students as of next 
spring. So, by 1990, the entire student body 
will be robots. Isn’t that exciting?
N: Yes sir, but why do you want to replace 
students with robots?
S: We’re not replacing students with 
robots, we’re replacing people with robots. 
The robots will still be here to leam, and 
they don’t need to be fed, just recharged once 
in a while. Also, we should be able to cram 
them all into Skibo while they are not work­
ing, since they don’t need dorm rooms. That 
will enable us to sell all of the dorms we now 
own at a nice profit, and get rid of most of 
Auxiliary Services. Alvin Weenie can always 
work on inventing a hot dog for robots.
N: Have any other plans been prepared 
for integrating the robots into the 
university?
The Wherrett Room is the scene of a 
major hostage crisis. Twenty members of 
Student Senate, Dean Merle Rank, and Tar­
tan news editor Jennifer Hutton are being 
held by members of the Graduate Student 
Organization (GSO).
The crisis began early Friday evening. 
That night the senate voted to withhold all 
funding for GSO social events. Rich 
Hatchet, Finance Committee Chairman, 
initiated the action, citing GSO for serving 
Iron City Light at last Friday’s party. “Any 
organization which demonstrates such poor 
taste by serving that crap doesn’t deserve a 
penny of my ...er... senate’s money,” Hatchet 
argued.
Former GSO treasurer Walt Old coun­
tered that I. C. Light was indeed worthy of 
senate’s money. “It’s even served at Priman- 
ti’s,” he pointed out.
GSO officers became so enraged at the 
senators that a graduate computer science 
student bolted the door to the Wherret 
Room. Reportedly about half a dozen grad 
students are holding hostages.
GSO President Matt Mather stated that 
the hostages would be released when senate 
unfreezes their funds for social activities. He 
vowed to “hold them all hostage for 445 
days, if necessary.”
In other news from that fateful meeting, 
senate froze its own funds. Hatchet made a 
motion to freeze them because the posters 
advertising the presidential debates failed to 
say “funded by the student activities fee.” 
Hatchet commented, “I hope the senators 
won’t take it personally, but I felt this action
by U.P. Eye
For the second consecutive week there 
has been no controversy within CMU’s 
architecture department.
Things have been so quiet lately that 
251 of 260 students have signed a petition 
which says:
We, the students of CMU’s architecture 
department, have absolutely nothing to 
complain about. Our department ranks 
among the world’s finest ar.d every 
instructor lives up tc its high standards. 
The courses offered here are gooJ. Very 
good. Really. The prestigious program 
here provides an outstanding prepara­
tion for our entry into the real world. 
Outstanding preparation. Really.
We’re proud to be architecture students 
at CMU. We’re certainly glad that we
was necessary in order to be fair to the other 
student organizations.”
Ralph Merman (H&SS) objected to the 
motion saying, “Senate is allowed to break 
its own rules!”
The motion was passed after 35 minutes 
of senate debate by a vote of 5-H-2.
attend the professional choice. Really.
Department Head Louis Flower echoes 
the feeling of the students. “No sir, 
there’s no controversy here,” Flower said. 
“We’re just one big happy family here. 
Really.”
Faculty members in architecture seem 
equally content here. “What can I say,” 
one professor explained, “this is one 
smooth running department. We put out 
top-notch professional architects like 
comp sci puts out nerds.”
“It’s really a joy to work here,” another 
professor commented. “It’s so calm and 
peaceful here. Like a funeral parlor with 
drawing boards. It’s so quiet here we’re 
almost bored. In fact, we are bored. 
Really.”
Architecture not in disarray
% ijtmr Mooirçj actfatttes fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.________________________
The best of Gorelick—drum roll, please
Food Service’s proposed contract plans are 
just that-proposed. Since nothing is definite at 
this point, we have the opportunity to respond 
to these plans. This is our response.
CMU is a haven for paranoia. Humanities 
and fine arts students live in constant fear that 
their programs will be eliminated before 
graduation; student organizations protect their 
power and fundings with a watchful eye for 
intruders. The Robotics controversy and the 
most recent installment in the GSO vs. Student 
Senate saga are two current examples of the 
paranoia that is plaguing CMU.
When you are a guest in someone’s house 
you don’t insult the cat. You don’t point out 
the worn carpet and you don’t complain if 
your hosts eat dinner at four-thirty. The cat 
won’t go away, there is probably not enough 
money for a new carpet and old habits, no 
matter how' annoying or mindless, are hard to
break. If you’re at all sensitive, you refrain 
yourself from expressing your opinion when 
the only possible result is hard feelings.
The Office of Housing has recently 
announced an additional increase in the 1981- 
82 housing rates. What makes this increase 
appear to be especially obnoxious is the 
responsible way in which Ken Stover and Food 
Service handled their own recent controversy.
Then why is everyone making fun of Pitts­
burgh? Why do we keep insulting the Steelers, 
which won’t go away, the pollution when we 
know perfectly well that the money is just not 
there to help it, and that accent, an annoying 
habit to be sure, but remember your own glass 
city.
Smith looks to be the genuinely motivated 
candidate. His idealism borders on naivete. 
Perhaps Sherman and Houska have been 
sobered by experience.
We want Steve Smith to go to the Housing 
Office as our leader. We want him to tell Mr. 
Dalton that we are upset, and then we want 
him to guide the Student Senate in creating 
some meaningful action directed toward the 
policy. Good luck President Smith!
Humanities students might still complain, 
however, that the administration does not 
solicit funds as energetically for their college as 
it does for Robotics and other scientifically 
oriented projects and with this claim they may 
have a valid argument.
An article in this week’s Tartan helps to 
clarify the process by which Robotics acquires 
space. If students are kept informed by the 
administration about the precise intentions of 
the Planning Department, they can voice their 
protest or approval in a thoughtful way and
Cafeteria like a dense fog will evaporate into 
dust.
Guest column
A (not so) new perspective on women and the draft
by I. M. Fascist
Last month the U.S. Supreme Court 
began hearing arguments on draft registra­
tion for males, something both males and 
females are claiming is discriminatory.
Bullfeathers. What’s wrong in this coun­
try is that women don’t know their place. So 
they cook good food and give good sex-that 
doesn’t make a woman a good soldier.
What does make a good soldier, you ask? 
First, a soldier must be functionally illiterate 
or at least mildly retarded. If someone could 
get a good job in the private sector, he 
wouldn’t be in the military. While most 
women have a large amount of air between 
the ears, few are actually illiterate or retarded 
enough to join military.
Second, a good soldier must be blindly
patriotic. We know that most twenty year 
old men are anxious to machine gun down 
endre villages of women and children in El 
Salvador-all in the fight against brutal com­
munist aggression. But women? Nah. Can 
you imagine a woman sacrificing her life to 
maintain America’s monopoly on Persian 
Gulf oil? Don’t be silly.
Third, a soldier must always be mentally 
be prepared to fight, maim, and kill. This 
requires consuming large quantities of ille­
gal drugs and whipping each other into a 
sadistic frenzy, screaming “Kill! Kill! Kill!” 
Can you imagine a woman in high heels 
doing that? Everyone knows women aren’t 
emotional and don’t like drugs or 
whipping.
Fourth, a soldier must always be physi­
cally prepared to fight, maim and kill. This 
is really silly since everyone knows that 
women are real wimps when it comes to 
combat. Women need training, men don’t. 
Women need make-up, men don’t Women 
need panties, men don’t. Women would 
also create problems on the batdefield. What 
if a truck loaded with tampons broke down 
on the way to the front?
Actually, these four points are irrelevant. 
President Carter’s original coed registration 
plan didn’t even require women for 
fighting.
Still, some intellectual twits doubt the 
value of even the present all-male registra­
tion program. I’ve heard misguided liberals 
claiming that draft registration is nothing 
more that the anti-democratic manipula-
letters
At CMU, sex and engineering meet at the stacks
Editor
I never believed all of those letters to the 
Editor until one day in the E&S library', I 
was just sitting there and HE walked in.
Something caught my eye immediately. 
Since it was late at night, the lilbrary was 
practically empty. He caught me staring 
and began to rub the bulge in his pants as he 
wandered off toward the journals section. I
quickly excused myself from my lab group 
saying I wanted to check something out. As 
I walked up behind him, he sensed my pres­
ence and turned. Already he had whipped 
out his tremendous calculator and was 
lighdy fingering its top. I had never seen one 
so big and I knew' that I had to try it. So I
took it in my hand and calculated some 
linear regression. This made his eyes light 
up and he told me to keep going. This 
spurred me on. Next I reached for his
charger. Both of us anxiously maneuvered 
up the small aisle to get everything he had 
plugged in. Finally, as we together worked
out some implicit differentiation, the rea-
dout overloaded sending out a series of 
numbers like none I had ever before expe­
rienced, and probably never will again. I 
often go back to the library' in hopes of 
seeing him again, but I am always left with 
just the fond memory of a wild night at 
CMU.
Name withheld upon, request
Giving the man a break
Editor:
I’m really sick of everyone picking on 
Gary' Dolt! He is an employee of this univer­
sity, and deserves our respect. I mean, after 
all, we only pay the poor man’s salary .
Be forewarned!!
Once again we bring you The Natrat. We hope everyone understands 
that this is intended all in fun, and that we wish to hurt no one. 
Obviously, nothing in these pages is true except for this tiny paragraph. 
The Natrat has been in the spirit of fun since the early days of Tech— 
enjoy!
I mean, I’ve never had any problem with 
maintenance. All you have to do is fill out 
19*^2 requests, talk to 42 different people, and 
wail for 4 months. Now, I mean, who could 
complain about service like that. Where else 
could you get service like that, huh?
And for all of you wimps who are con­
stantly complaining about having your 
mail thrown away, there is a simple solu­
tion: tell every one you know not to send you 
mail, and don’t subscribe to any magazines. 
'Ilie price of postage and publications is too 
high any way, so spend all of the money you 
save on long distance phone calls.
So, in conclusion, I mean, lets be fair. 
Dolt’s not such a rotten apple, he just acts 
like one. Sign me-
The satisfied dorm resident
tion of our young males for the purpose of 
arrogant symbolism. I’ve even heard these 
liberals saying that we should concentrate 
instead on improving the structure and 
operation of the military, as if that was 
where our problems really lie.
Aw, shut up. You peace-loving radicals 
are standing in the way of progress through 
imperialistic American expansion. It is time 
for the world to be free of communist agres­
sion. All countries deserve freedom of cho­
ice, even if we have to force it upon them.
And if those dirty reds don’t like demo­
cracy and freedom, maybe a little nuclear 
warfare will change their minds.
I.M. Fascist is a junior majoring in political 
manipulation and is an open-minded 
columnist for The Natrat. He is also chair­
man of the committee to elect Alexander 
Haig as dictator in 1984.
Letter Policy
The Natrat strongly encourages readers 
to write letters-to-the-editor. We like let­
ters. We like reading letters. We laugh 
when we read letters. Letters are funny 
because they show how stupid the writers 
are. Sometimes we rewrite letters to make 
people sound more stupid. That’s the 
stuff that makes student journalism so 
rewarding.
Captain.......................................Vinny Guinto
Associate Editor..............Wrong Way Leighty
Mangling Editor-----. The Amazing Zusman
Photography Editors .... The Flasher Brothers
Collaborating Editors .'............Boogie Balsom
Grizzly Kirsop
Interior Decorator.......................Goosey Borg
Staff L/iiterer .....................................Mumbles
Produced by Captain Vinny’s merry crew. 
Typeset by volunteers from the Pittsburgh 
Association of the Blind.
Copyright 1981 by The Natrat. The Editorial 
Board reserves the right to print any copy it 
deems libelous, vulgar, and generally unfit 
for publication. Editorial Offices: 6th floor 
Warner Hall. Ask for Dick Sire.
Funded by advertising and staff prostitutes 
All rights ignored.

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1981—The Natrat—Page 3
letters
Pitiful product of a sick mind
Editor;
Hi there. How are you? I am fine. I’m 
kind of busy at school these days, but I guess 
you know how that is, being an editor and a 
student. I am in the fifteenth grade at Car- 
Mel extended High School. It’s sort of nice
Sonny come home
Editor:
Hi, son. Your mother and I never get any 
letters from you, and goodness knows we 
write to you often enough. You spend alto­
gether too much of your time working on 
that newspaper. We wrote to you at the 
paper because we knew you’d get this and 
read it. Won’t you please write? Or call us? 
Collect, even? We’re lonely here without 
you. Come on, son, do it for us-for your 
readers. I hope you read this, and don’t just 
publish it like you do with all the other 
letters you get at your office. Well, your 
mother is calling me for dinner. Write, will 
ya?
Dad
Alarming reflection
Editor:
I found something out the other day. I 
was sitting on the john reading my Natrat, 
when something startled me. Looking up, I 
saw the word “TARTAN” in my minor. 
Ain’t that something? Your newspaper is a 
kind of plaid in the mirror. What’ll they 
think of next?
John
Lost in Pennsylvania
Editor
This isn’t the New York Times, is it?
Writer
here, you know, but not great. We have a 
newspaper here, too. Well, I have to go do 
my polynomial pre-integral quasi­
differential computer program now. It’s in 
basic. You’d like it. Thanks for your time. 
Bye. Really, I am going. Sure, I’ll stop writ­
ing. I know I can quit. I’ve done it six times 
before. Help me, I’m a sick man. You can 
edit this if you want. Please do, ’cause it goes 
on and on and on.
Billy
We—I mean you. . .
Editor
Do you really write these letters yourself? 
Someone said that you did. If you did, then a 
letter like this one wouldn’t appear in this 
paper, now, would it? So anybody who 
thinks we write the letters can go jump off a 
bridge (if you can find an open one.) You try 
to edit a paper and be a good student some­
time. This is a real letter from a real student. 
Really it is. We wouldn’t lie. We can’t lie— 
we’re the Natrat. No, we aren’t, you are, 
right, Editor?
Drahcir Cilerog
Rtpewdggdrs s;ezl Oy5
Natrat Typedet ny Wxoertz
Yhe Martat was rypedet vy dome pf thw
gimest dypests om tje C__MY Xamous,
usimg thw nost noderm ob rypedettinf 
wqyopment. Mote rhe fine qualitu od the 
wrutumg, the excel’ent stygg you will fing 
in such a aerioys mewsoaoer. We are the 
xambus dource gor ingomation and qorld 
mews.
Gunded by s5tudemy Axribities Free, 
seroy
faY.l'WIS ScftooL.
AWt> LIFE A*6"Let's 
ANT> NOT X>
winv i r.
We had some space and this fit, so...
Editor
Is it just me or is the quality of the letters 
that you publish deteriorating. They are all 
so self-interested any more. Of course, when 
I ask “Is it just me...?” I don’t really expect 
you to tell me that it is or isn’t “just me,” 
whatever that drastic abstraction may mean. 
I mean, how can one really talk about “just 
me” as if there were such a concept. Espe­
cially ME. I mean, if I were to pick just one 
word which described me, which, of course, 
I could never do, I certainly wouldn’t pick 
“just.” For how can one abstract the abstrac­
tor? It is one of the paradigm cases in philo­
sophical history that one cannot understand
oneself fully. Indeed, one can just barely 
understand why he or she prefers generic 
com chips over the slightly more color- 
consistant and less-broken brand name 
chips, so how can one possibly understand 
such a concept as “just me?” I just had to get 
that off my chest.
Dolly Pardon
Puzzled by fence
Dear Editor
I am just a freshman. Is the fence always 
like that, or is it just me? P.S. I haven’t taken 
Philoloshy (or however it’s spelled) yet.
Andy Scott
A message to our readers:
With great pride and a sincere feeling of personal satisfaction, 
The Natrat is enthralled to announce that we are
Funded by
theActivities fee
We just want to remind the student body that our senators are a 
bunch of swell guys and gals who have graciously lowered themselves 
to fund the various relatively insignificant student organizations on 
campus. These altruistic and extremely humble individuals have not 
asked for any recognition for this altruistic and extremely humble act; 
rather they are content to wait for their glory when they graduate and 
become leaders of society. Senate, we salute you for another year of 
outstanding service.
The staff of 
The Natrat
is pleased to announce 
that this will be the last 
issue of the Natrat until 
this time next year
(if you’re lucky)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Natrat—April 1, 1981
Army ROTC. 
KILL ALL YOU CAN KILL.
at CMU
see Captain Marvel 
Public Phone Booth 
Margaret Morrison and Forbes
All R.A.s will be held in Skibo, Rm 45.
“Swanky” Rank evicted from
Woodlawn,might have to resign
His first year out of college, 
Frank Quackenduck murdered three 
Korean children, burned an Asian hut, 
and built his own small concentration camp.
R.A. Interest Sessions
Anyone interested in an R.A. should come to the first annual 
R.A. auction and Barbaque.
•Sunday, April 1, 2:00 PM 
•Wednesday, April 2, 9:00 PM 
•Sunday, April 3, 2:00 AM
If you have a favorite R.A., feel free. For anyone else, 
you must bid. Cash only. No validine or points. All 
unsold R.A.’s will be barbaqued to a crisp.
by Phallus Newman
The Dean of Student Affairs, Merle 
“Swanky” Rank has been evicted from his 
Woodlawn Apartments residence for failure 
to pay his $100 housing deposit and faces 
possible forced resignation.
Dean Merle “the pearl” Rank, as his fel­
low faculty members call him, has resided in 
the .Woodlawn Aprtments for seven years in 
his role as Dean of Student Affairs. (It is an 
unwritten rule that the Dean of Student 
Affairs live on campus to keep a close watch 
on student activities.) All that may end now 
as some slight negligence on “Deanie’s” 
part may see the adminstrator heading for 
other, not necessarily greener, pastures.
“I guess I sort of forgot,” explains Rank, 
or “Swanky,” as his students call him. “It’s 
not like I don’t have more important things 
to worry' about,” he said.
‘Merle Rank who?” queried President Sire 
when asked about the administrator’s future
Robots attend CMU
continued from page 1 
into.
N: How has the Admissions Office 
reacted to this five year plan?
S: Well, at first they were a litde leary, but 
once they realized how much easier it would 
make their job, they went along with it. 
Elliott Williamson is worried that the 
aumber of applicants will level off, but Raj 
has assured us that there will always be more 
robots out there than we could ever accept. 
And what self-respecting robot wouldn’t 
want to come to the Professional Choice for 
his programmi...! mean education?”
2nd Lt. Frank Quackenduck 
majored in civil disturbance at 
the University of Pittsburgh and 
was a member of Army ROTC.
"Most of the engineers I 
graduated with probably wound 
up as an assistant engineer to 
sombody else. Maybe doing the 
details for somebody else's 
design or supervising some 
other aspect of perversion.
"But my first year as an 
Engineer Lt., I've designed many 
of my own projects and 
supervised the maiming of 
children, the raping of women 
and the killing of brave young 
men. You name it. I've 
supervised it.
"Whether I stay in the Army 
or go into civilian construction 
work later, I've got experience 
that some engineers won't have 
when they're 30!"
Army ROTC got Frank 
Quackenduck off to a good start 
in his field. It can do the same 
for you whether you're a civil 
engineer or an English major.
For more information stop by 
the Army ROTC office on 
campus.
And begin your future as an 
officer.
at CMU. Sire was whisked away for a short 
briefing session and returned a short time 
later, saying “Oh, that Merle Rank, 
always a place in the CMU community for 
Merle.” Sire mentioned the Morewood mail- 
room and Robotics as possible future 
assignments for the evicted administrator.
The Dean of Housing Gerard Dolt evaded 
Natrat reporters, refusing to comment on 
the decision to evict Rank. Repeated 
attempts to telephone his office resulted in 
“accidental” disconnections and conver- 
stions with obviously disguised voices say­
ing, “Guido’s Pizzaria, canna I helpa
cloaks and daggers.
Mr. Jerome Dolt 
was eventually discovered cowering in a 
long-forgotten maid’s closet. As the Natrat 
reporter began to ask the administrator 
for a comment, Garry Dolt stuck his 
fingers in his ears and started to shout 
“la,la,la,la,la, I can’t hear anything anyb­
ody’s saying, la,la,la,la,la.”
The Natrat finally decided to get a com­
ment from the Master of Auxiliary Services, 
Alvin Weenie. He responded with a terse 
“tough titles!” when asked to comment on 
Rank’s dilemma.“We can’t start making 
exceptions now,” claimed Weenie.
Rank himself is philosphical. “If I stay I 
stay, If I don’t I don’t. Frankly, I’m a little bit 
weary of living in a city that smells like the 
New Jersey Turnpike.”
If Rank is not able to secure housing for 
next semester, he plans to join his brother’s 
leather company as an executive vice- 
presidentMerle Rank is shown above

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1981 —-The Natrat—Page 5
Housing office develops new policies for 1981-82
by Wanda Leavehere
In a secret meeting held during spring 
break the Housing Office adopted several 
policy changes to take effect next year. 
These changes are aimed mainly at sav­
ing money.
The first change will involve mail ser­
vice. To save money, Housing has 
decided to use students’ incoming mail as 
fuel for heating the dorms. Says Maggie 
Mailthief of Housing, “This will solve 
two problems at once. We will have low- 
cost heating, and we will not have to deal
by Skippy Itt
Frustrated over selling one too many Nes- 
tle’s Crunch bars, three CMU baseball play­
ers attacked Warner Hall last Friday, taking 
President Dick Sire hostage.
Tension mounted as police cars sur­
rounded the area and evacuated Morewood 
Gardens E tower for no apparent reason. 
The Captain was informed that there was 
no fire and they proceeded to Warner Hall. 
“We were just so used to going to More- 
wood,” he said.
Baracading the sixth floor, the three stu­
dents bound and gagged Sire and threatened 
him with the stale Nestle’s Crunch bars and 
Tatran Grill french fries that one student 
happened to have on him. “It was a terrible 
experience,” commented Sire.
CORRECTION 
The article in last week’s Natrat which 
inadvertantly praised the university’s food 
service should have read “They serve rats- 
quality food!” rather than “They serve star- 
quality food!” Eagle-eyed Tom Heartless, a 
regular Natrat listener, wins $5.00 on his 
Vali-Dine card, and a “Natrat Blooper Spot­
ter!” T-shirt for noticing that one. Next 
time, keep it to yourself, Tom. Those shirts 
cost money, you know, and YOUR STU­
DENT ACTIVITIES FEE can only cover so 
much.
CORRECTION2 
Hie above con ection is a complete lie and 
a fabrication. In fact, Tom Heartless will be 
charged $5.00 on his Valu-less card, and 
he’ll have to design a “Natrat blooper spot­
ter!” T-shirt, or his grades will be retracted, 
and, like several other CMU students, he’ll 
disappear from campus. Get with it, Tom.
Beat the high cost of living!
Become a traypicker!
For more information send $1 
to box 17, Schenley Park 15213
Pregnant?
And you didn’t mean to be?
hee hee hee hee
with problems in mail delivery.” The 
only problem, according to Mailthief, is 
what to do during times of mail shortage. 
Mailthief urges all students to keep writ­
ing letters, since “you have to write them 
to get them, and we need them.” If insuf­
ficient amounts of mail are received, 
Housing will resort to burning mainte­
nance requests and other unimportant 
items they may have.
Upon careful reading of the housing 
contract, Gary Dolt, Director of Housing, 
discovered that the contract states that
The police used a bull horn to try and 
negotiate with the students but they just sent 
down a baseball on which was written “We 
want our fair share of the activities fee, Give 
us funding for a coach! ” After three hours of 
deliberation student senate passed a resolu­
tion which did not give funding to the Base­
ball Club but agreed to buy up the 
remainder of their candy.
Baseball Club members were getting ner­
vous so they agreed and surrendered to the 
terms set by senate.
Housing only has to provide a room and 
suitable furniture. Therefore, effective 
next year, students will receive monthly 
utility bills which will have to be paid 
within a few days of receipt. According to 
Dolt, it is the students’ responsibility to 
pick up the bills in the Housing Office 
each month. If the bills are not picked up 
they may be lost in the mail incineration 
process. Dolt stated that if this happens 
the university is not responsible for 
actions taken by the utility companies.
Another new policy adopted by Hous­
ing is that of bill payment. To save 
money, Housing will now require stu­
dents to pay bills for rooms in full at the 
time of room reservation or selection. 
Dolt claims that this will save Housing 
from having to mail out bills and in addi­
tion Housing will earn a significant 
amount of interest on the money.
Dolt also said that charges will be made 
for “certain services such as maintenance, 
cleaning, and phone service.” These fees 
are partly money-making ventures for 
Housing and partly preventative mea­
sures “so that students will be more 
responsible.” For example, students will
save $10 per week by keeping their rooms 
and halls clean, thus allowing the maids 
to be assigned to other areas of work. For 
maintenance tasks, students will be 
charged for parts and labor at a rate com­
petitive with outside companies. Dolt 
states that the rate is competitive “so we 
won’t be accused of creating a monopoly. 
If students want to go elsewhere for 
repairs, we won’t stop them.”
One final policy under consideration is 
the reclassification of rooms. Generally, 
one occupant will be added to each room, 
and certain walk-in closets will become 
standard singles. Any room with a pri­
vate or semi-private bathroom automati­
cally becomses a prime room, and some 
of the lounges in Morewood will become 
doubles and triples. The building of lofts 
will be encouraged, as they leave more 
room for additional occupants.
Dolt stated that “these policies are 
necessary to solve our budget problems. 
And besides, the students are always free 
to move out if they don’t like it...that is, if 
they haven’t already signed the contract.”
There's more than one way to lose your mind...
My Bloody Terminal
sii« es sm sis Œi in ss sas s m s sa s æa a s s ji Eta «saa sai es ssi mi e sRPARENT OR AOUIT
m i s «a tm ü sa m m a m ai» mi » aa m 
NOW SHOWING
¿fi UM I
FULTON
f
ioi Sixth St./281-4356 I
ROUTE 51 SOUTH
CINEMA WORLD
^Centur^l^oH/653-002^J
IRWINCINEMA WORLD
MONROE V1UE
CINEMETTE EAST
I Monroeville Moll/372-ó 145 IMcKNIGHT CINEMA
¦ MtKnight Rd/364-3900 I
SHOWCASE CINEMAS
tmCTPARKMAV WEST & ROUTE 60 IfLjl ROBINSON TOWNSHIP787 5788 92 3 2 760 iwrmMjtrawer tioo rmtr show ohir
Baseball club seeks revenge

---------------------------------------------------

Graduation
Finish
you get 
attacked by a 
rabid squirrel 
in Ph 100 
skip 2 turns
successfully 
plagarize your 
roommate's 
paper, 
roll again
caught sleeping 
in class, 
go back 
3 spaces
slip on icy 
sidewalk, 
skip 1 turn
you owe 
$5,654 inti 
go back 7 spaces
you get caught 
in an endless 
loop, 
go back 
2 spaces
change your 
grade on the 
computer, 
roll again
you get caught 
in an endless 
loop.
go forward 
2 spaces
you make 
drugs in Chem 
lab.
go forward 
5 spaces
you get 
mercury 
poisoning, 
skip 1 turn
'
hit
Pres. Cyert's
limo.
go back to
start.
sell your soul 
to the devil 
roll twice
The
CMU
Game
bribe registrar, 
roll again
you are 
attacked by a 
robot, 
go back 
4 spaces
you commit 
suicide, 
you loose
room cramps 
your style, 
skip one turn
your roommate 
is gay. 
go back 4 
spaces
Housing lets 
you move out 
of lounge, 
go forward 
4 spaces
registrar thinks 
you don't 
exist, 
go back 
5 spaces
seduce 
University 
mistress, 
roll again

---------------------------------------------------

lose car in 
pothole, 
go back to 
start.
you must 
be cheating, 
roll againFreshman Year 
Start
fall into 
hole in cut. 
skip 1 turn
you get run 
over by a 
cushman cart, 
skip 1 turn
you are 
overcome by 
Pittsburgh air 
go back 
8 spaces
Validine 
balance comes 
up negative, 
go back 
5 spaces
eat at Kiltie, 
skip 2 turns
congratulations! 
you're on 
probation, 
skip 1 turn
J
dump 
worthless 
testbooks on 
freshman, 
roll again
parents disown 
you.
skip 2 turns
you break 
a leg.
skip 1 turn
blackmail your 
Drama prof. 
roll again
Financial aid 
cut off; 
go back 
7 spaces
rip up your 
roommate's job 
offers, 
roll again
off-key 
singing makes 
you sick, 
skip 1 turn
you fall off 
2nd floor 
ledge.
skip 2 turns
Rules
1 The object of this game is to win. Why else 
would you play? One wins by being the first to 
reach "Graduation."
2 Cheating is encouraged (remember that this 
is CMU.)
3 A turn consists of moving the number of 
spaces rolled on two six-sided dice, and then 
following the instructions on the space in 
wich you land (if there are any.)
4 Place markers can be anything, but coins 
are ideal, and they symbolize CMU so well.
5 At any point in the game a player can drop 
out by committing suicide.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
CMU opens new option 
“fast” food with a twist
photo by TAZ
John Bunglenail came to CMU last week during his cross-country search for the owner of the panties he is holding, 
like the prince in Cinderella, he intends to visit every woman in the country until he finds their owner.
by Alice Fungi
Food Service has just announced the new 
plan for next year. ‘‘The fast’Lwas thought 
of by Ken Oven, Director of Food Service. 
Students on the points plan will have the 
option of buying a meal but not eating it. 
This way Food Service will be able to feed 
the entire campus much more 
economically.
Students will choose one day a week and 
use their points for empty plates and cups. 
“Just think,” said Oven, “you’ll be able to 
get into a Teally good dinner conversation 
and not be interrupted with the chore of 
eating.”
Ideas in the works include “The Thanks­
giving Day fast,” and a “Wednesday night 
steak fast.” SDC president Mark Marcella
suggested that this might be good for weight 
reduction on the campus as well.
Other ideas from food service include the 
possible renovation of the second floor of 
the Grill into “Champagne-plus,” a new 
dinner spot for CMU. It would include a wet' 
bar with caviar and crackers available too 
(Vali-Dine only). Champagne-plus would 
be a formal spot and Alvin Weenie, Director 
of Auxiliary Services, suggested that a rent- 
a-tux shop be opened to accomodate those 
students who didn’t have enough class to 
bring a tux to school with them.
Weenie also hopes to use a color-coding 
system for the tables in Kiltie. “Seating 
according to colleges would help keep the 
Fine Arts people away from everybody else,” 
he observed. :
For once someone who isn’t boring visits CMU-Carol Croquet
by Jaune-Claude Lemon
Funny lady Carol Croquet, who was 
awarded $1.6 million dollars in a recent libel 
suit against the National Enquirer, visited 
the Camegie-Mellon campus this week, 
where she discussed her career and her recent 
trial with students of the drama department.
“What gives them the right to simply fab­
ricate stories about me?”asked Ms. Croquet. 
“It’s a matter of responsible journalism,” 
she said in response to a question about 
what it was a matter of.
The popular comedian also answered 
questions about her illustrious career. She 
told the students to follow their instincts and 
to only stay in acting if they couldn’t live 
without it and the large amounts of money 
they could make if they made it big like she
did. ' -
Ms. Croquet laughed as one freshman 
actress boasted that she looked more like 
Carol Croquet then Tricki Lawrence did 
and wasn’t untalented and overweight like 
Tricki Lawrence was. Another student 
asked whether Ms. Burnett had ever seen 
Fyle Waggoner naked.
Ms. Croquet concluded her question and 
answer session by giving her famous Tarzan 
yell, although nobody remembers anyone 
asking her to do so.
Grill hijinx Ms. Croquet then graciuosly 
accompanied^ group of drama students 
to the Natrat Grill where she engaged in 
an informal discussion of improvisational 
technique over coffee and dessert. The 
performer also provided the students with
a fine bottle of sparkling champagne.
“She is nice for days,’’frothed one ebul­
lient drama student.
Things soon took a turn for the worse, 
however as Ms. Croquet got into a heated 
argument with drama department head, Tel 
Shapiro. “Bomb Cambodia, see if we care, 
cabbageface,”said the award-winning 
actress, obviously confusing the Broadway 
producer with someone else. Mr. Shapiro 
stealthfullly departed the grill.
Ms. Croquet then began to walk around 
the Grill’s upper level, offering everyone a 
bite of her “Double-Devil (a brownie and 
ice-cream concoction).”
When the First Lasy of Comedy acci­
dently spilled some of her ice cream on a 
drama student, instead of apologizing, she
yelled “lookit me, I’m a sheepdog,” and 
began to furiously lap up the ice cream from 
the students arm.
The other drama students soon began to 
join in this unusual improvisation, as they 
jumped around the Grill area like various 
wild animals. “I’m a hyena, I’m a hyena” 
shouted one. “Hey, over here, I’m a billy 
goat, baaa-aaaa-aa,” said another as he rum­
maged thruogh the garbage cans.
“She’s inspirational for days,” bubbled 
one excited student.
Squirrel Hill shenanigans. The party then 
travelled to Shirl Jones’ Oakland hotel 
room (Ms. Jones is in town to publicize 
her cancelled television series). Ms. Jones. 
asked everybody to please not smoke on j 
continued on page Iff
Attention CFA graduates
Looking for a promising career 
in transportation?
Would you like to be on the road with 
some of the world's most interesting 
people?
Yellow Cab Co., Inc.
will be conducting on-campus interviews, 
today, April 1, in the Skibo parking lot.
Control the direction of your 
life while seeeing the world. 
Join Yellow Cab Co.
Announcing the campus discount:95% off...
on all Tl consumer 
products at the 
CMU 
Bookstore.
Tl Programmable 59 
calculator
•Discount available to students and faculty. 
Special sale items are excluded from this offer.
Visit the Texas instruments 
retail store—where all 
of TVs consumer products 
and accessories are available.
Oncea giawbryniwa
CMU Bookstore
Texas Instruments retail stores are operated by Texas Instruments Supply Company, a subsidiary ol Texas Instruments Incorporated 
^19M Texas Instruments Supply Company io

---------------------------------------------------

inancial Raid strikes 
student’s bank accounts
April 1, 1981—The Natrat—Page 9
Just when you thought it was safe to go 
back to the bank, just when you thought 
your freshman year’s finances were in line, 
the illustrious overlord of Cranberry- 
¡Vlelodian has announced the final phase of 
¡he fiscal policy which is so important a part 
if this university’s operation.
“Why, there they were, all over campus, 
nth bank accounts all over the country, 
rith parents with bank accounts all over the 
rt)rld...it’s a wonder we never thought of it 
efore!” So quipped “Fast Eddie” Frasier, 
lired to head the new department’s 
|‘SQUAT” team. No one is quite sure why 
iey chose that name.
It will be Frasier’s job to search students’ 
[inancial records, using techniques “gua- 
anteed to dig up something.” Frasier was 
Jailed for his part in a 1976 computer theft of 
51.5 million from a New York trust com- 
any. He was selected because of his depth 
)f experience in electronic surveillance and 
Computer “operations.”
‘We figger there’s at least six or seven 
lillion in all those bank accounts. You fig­
ure... there’s maybe five thousand students 
lere. At least half of ’em are real rich kids, 
>’s they probly got a cupla thousand right 
here in the city here, maybe even in Mellon 
ank down the street. Their folks got to have 
alf a million each, so maybe I figured it 
rong before. We could be into some real 
bucks here...”
President Sy Art was interviewed about 
le hiring as he worked the “back forty,” the 
liew farming area between Warner Hall and
Forbes Avenue.
“If they just hadn’t put them damn trees 
in there, we could’ve put in a nice crop of 
com. But Zeke Dalton insisted that we have 
an orchard and field crops, so now we can’t 
even drive a decent John Deere through 
here.”
The President could not be reached for 
comments, but he did offer us a ride on his 
tractor.
Frasier indicated that the Office of Finan­
cial Raid would be completely independent 
of the Office of Financial Aid, although 
rumor has it that some of the financial sab­
otage of student accounts in the past was, in 
fact, a series of experiments designed to test 
the feasibility of the new department. Stu­
dent Forest Rayon says she lost her work- 
study job at GATF (Let’s here Henry Fonda 
try that one!) as a direct result of the early 
Frasier experiments. She and another suf­
ferer, Devo Sea, have ammassed evidence 
pointing to Frasier’s tests as reasons for their 
particular problems. Both students have 
been missing from their rooms for several 
days, so the Natrat has no further comment 
from them. In fact, their names have been 
erased from school records, and all their 
former friends gave this reporter suspicious 
glances when pressed for further informa­
tion. Danni Sharken, Forest’s former roo- 
mate, said only that she’d been told to “keep 
real quiet about the whole Rayon thing, or 
your grades will get all messed up.” We 
promised Danni that we wouldn’t quote
\ continued on page 10
7RCT antenna stolen, no one notices
WRCT’s 20 foot antenna was finally 
ecovered last week after program direc­
tor Larry Burger spotted a 17 year-old 
jyouth dragging the steel structure down 
orbes Avenue.
“I first got suspicious,” said Burger, 
when I saw our call letters painted on 
he side of the metal.” Burger phoned the 
»olice and the subject was apprehended 
after a brief shoot-out) while attempting 
0 re-sell the antenna to Mike’s TV and 
tam radio shop.
According to Stew Myer, WRCT chief 
hperator, the staff noticed at the end of 
January that they just weren’t getting as 
pany requests as usual. Myer then 
I hecked the equipment and Bingo! no 
hntenna. “Sometimes people borrow the 
jintenna or it gets misplaced but this 
ooked a little obvious,” added Myer.
Normally afixed high atop Warner 
^all, the missing antenna failed to hurt 
rRCr’s listening audience. “Gee,” said 
>ne avid fan, “I thought the static was a 
lew Five album.”
The 17 year-old youth from East Lib- 
”y claims he stole the antenna as an act 
revenge. “I requested Starship Trooper 
n(l they never played it,” said the youth. 
Officer U.R. Stuck of the Pittsburgh 
>°lice says the boy’s punishment will
operation, pioneered by a hockey-playing surgeon, is performed on ice to help anesthetize the patient. The Natrat is 
happy to announce that the operation was a success, and that the patient is now singing saprano with die 
Mormon Tabernacle choir.
Thinking grad students?
probably consist of a few years in a deten­
tion home in which he will have to listen 
to “I know what boys like” by the wai­
tresses once a day.
Resting comfortably in its original 
spot the WRCT antenna has been saved 
and 88.3 (sometimes .4 or .5) is back on 
the air. Both listeners are enjoying it once 
again.
The joint efforts of the Robotics Insti­
tute and the Delmonte vegetable com­
pany have resulted in a startling new 
development on the grad student market. 
Several years’ worth of research have led 
to the creation of the “Thinking Grad 
Student.” Project director Vince Myers 
comments, “Yes, we’ve actually got it. A 
typical grad student with all of the regu­
lar functions--typing, eating, sleeping, 
etc—plus he can think.”
Asked why such an overwhelming pro­
ject was attempted, Myers said, “Well, 
someone had to do it. We couldn’t let 
things go on the way they were-- 
incoherrent theses, textbooks that went 
unread for lack of a college vocabulary,
ject will be a grad student that can handle 
simple grooming by itself. “This may be 
a long way in the future; I’m not sure the 
powers of robotics and artificial intelli­
gence can reach that far yet. But what the 
hell—we have all this grant money lying 
around...”
A George Gobel Haircut 
for $6:00!! \
Agister for haircutting classes. 
Call 936-1453 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
THIS NOTE IS HOT LKJAl TENOt« FOR ANY DCIT CMU O« OTHERWISE
PlTTSBl'RGH, PA
Dr. Richard Cyert
Page 10—The Natrat—April 1, 1981
CMU is well-endowed financially
continued from page 9
her, but since we’ie funded by your student 
activities fee, we figured you deserved all the 
information we had. Sorry, Danni.
“The endowment is the University and 
the University is the endowment. Without 
one, the other cannot exist. The endowment 
is the main thing, of course, but we have to 
keep the school to get that all-important 
non-taxable status. If it weren’t for that, why 
hell, we neend’t be bothered with all those 
kids.”
That used to be the administration’s opin­
ion, as expressed by Dr. An in a 1979 Pow­
wow in Warwhoop hall. The current 
position, since Mr. Frasier’s succinct redefi­
nition of the student’s role in the school’s 
financial planning, is that “We gotta get 
more kids in hoe, Sy, ’cause if we got more 
kids, we got more money, don’t you see?”
Towards that end, the admissions office 
has taken steps guaranteed to pick up the 
pace. Every department has been asked,
Dear Goosey:
Natrat’s social expert answers inane questions
under penalty of loss of funding, to come up 
with ways to increase their admission. (See 
article elsewhere in the Natrat, and espe­
cially check out the photo—whew).
When asked how he intended to get at the 
students’ bank accounts, Frasier replied 
thusly, saying unto me in a voice like a 
thousand and one trumpets (Bib/myth 
effect) “We already installed one access link 
to the accounts on campus-the Lemmon 
banking machine. We have plans to install 
another. There are direct tie lines from those 
machines to my HQ in the tunnels, so it’ll 
be like taking candy from a baby.”
Frasier reports that Lemmon Bank, N.A. 
(not available) has full knowledge of the tie 
lines. “Oh, yeah. One of their boys is either 
on the board of trustees or was promised a 
position or somethin. You’d have to ask 
farmer Sy about that one. I don’t get into no 
politickin.”
Dr. Art’s only reply to 
(Not continued on page 23)
Dear Goosey:
I’m a lonely male freshman engineer. I 
don’t know what the problem is, but I 
can’t find any attractive girls at CMU. 
I’ve been looking all last semester and all 
this semester, but I can’t find any. This is 
worse than high school.
Frustrated at CMU
Dear Frustrated:
Take a year off and go to Pitt.
Goosey:
I have a question about etiquette. At a 
formal mustard and chocolate pudding 
orgy, do the men where blue ties and 
black socks or black ties and blue socks? 
Also, how many yards of nylon rope are 
needed per woman?
Kinky and Kurious
Dear K and K:
I’m afraid you have your facts mixed 
up. The men wear blue ties, with blue 
socks being optional. I prefer a heavy 
cotton rope, because nylon tends to burn 
and leave embarrassing scars.
Dear Goosey:
I have a question for your readers. 
Inflation is really sending drug prices 
through the roof. With tuition and other 
expenses being so high here, how are peo­
ple affording their drugs? Hash brownies 
alone amounted for half of my student 
loan this year.
High and Broke
Dear High:
Let’s here from our readers on that one. 
Send your replies to: Goosey, Carnegie- 
Mellon University, Warner Hall Com­
plex, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Dear Goosey:
My boyfriend, I'll call him Jack, is see­
ing another girl. Well, I’m not sure, but 
I’m very suspicious. He told me the pan­
ties I found in his car were his mother’s, 
but I don’t believe him. He told me the 
bra I found in his room was his sister’s, 
but I don’t think so. What do you think
Jack is up to?
Suspicious
Dear Suspicious:
I think Jack is having sex with his 
mother and’sister.
Dear Goosey:
I think I’m flunking out. I got two D's 
and 3 R’s last semester, and this one 
doesn’t look any better. I just don't 
understand vector analysis. What can I 
do?
A failure at 19
Dear Failure:
Don’t ask me, I’m in Fine Arts. I don’t 
especially care what vector analysis is, or 
even about your flunking out. When 
graduate, I’ll be unemployed. And you 
think you have problems?
Dear Goosey:
Would you please print this article that 
you ran a few years ago? I have it staple* 
to my bedroom wall and I read it every 
day. It changed my life.
Thankful
Dear Thankful:
Glad to. Here it is...
Dear Goosey:
I used to have a drinking prob- i 
lem. The pressures were too much 
for me. School. Home. My girl­
friend. Another girlfriend. Still 
another girlfriend. It all began with 
a coke or two in the evening. The 
caffeine would calm my nerves. 
Then it became two or three cokes 
in the evening. Soon I was bringing 
a can of coke to class. Then two 
cans. Three and four. After a semes­
ter and a half, I was bringing a case 
of coke to each class. I was in trou­
ble. Then, suddenly it happened. A 
friend gave me a beer one day. Iron 
City. Tastes like kerosene at first, 
later not too bad. Now I’m off coke. 
This is the best I’ve ever felt in my 
life.
Just to have a laugh and sing a song
continued from page 8
the couch and she began to twirl around 
in circles until she collapsed in the 
middle of the floor, where she remained 
for the party’s duration.
Soon, a large cake was wheeled into the 
room. Ms. Croquet asked for a drumroll, 
whereupon the drama students made drum­
roll noises and Paul Lynda, the game show 
celebrity and nightclub entertainer popped 
out of the cake, clad only in a large red
feather boa, and began to sing the theni 
from “Differ’nt Strokes”.
The party lasted until the wee hours of th 
morning, and ended abrubtly when 
hotel room was set on fire.
Ms. Croquet thanked the students for 
wonderful time, and gave her famous Tar 
zan yell, although nobody rememba 
anyone asking her to do so.
“Much craziness for days,” giggl^ 
coquetish drama student.
Validine’s monster-Cyert money to take over at CMU
According to lood Service Director 
Ken Oven, the plastic Validine cards will 
be replaced with a paper currency, which 
will be printed by Campus Printing.
As to why it was decided to use Presi­
dent Cyert’s picture, Oven replied, “Who 
else? Personally, I find Richard Cyert 
and I’ve told him so per- 
cute face will be seen 
k. I can hardly wait until
sonai ly.
next
L V 9 ’ 6 C ij U B I 
12 .. £
SCRIES Q , . (1977 ;
When asked why the change was being 
made, Oven said, “I’m tired of hearing 
students complaining about how easy it 
is to lose their cards. This way, they give 
us their money and we give them ours, 
complete with the proper discount.”

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1981—The Natrat—Page 11
(fficialclassified
President Dick Sire will hold open windows for
[ailing engineering students on April 27th from 1 
to 3 P m- Those with QPA’s below .5 should 
contact the president’s office immediately for an 
appointment.
john P. Crease, Dean of the College of Humani­
zes and Social Sciences, will be out of town Tues- 
day from 1:30 to 5:00 p.m. Students who want to 
it in his chair should make an appointment, or 
lse simply break in and create a scene.
[he Student Senate meets but no one really cares
nyway.
Lost: 400 pounds of plutonium.If found, call F. 
Boom-boom x666.
For Sale: one small child. Call Joan soon at 
x8873.
For rent: roommates needed for medium-sized 
brothel. Furnished. Call x9919.
Want it done right? Typeng, editang, and oral 
sex. Call x6101 after 3 a.m.
John, I decided to give it up for Lent. See you 
tonight at 9:30 - Sue.
For Sale: one computer terminal. Used once 
before thrown across the room by frustrated 15- 
111 student.
Anti-Food Service rally to be held at Warner Hall 
tomorrow afternoon. Features burning of 
Warner Hall and film clips from Apocalypse 
Now. Bring torches and marshmallows.
Female Babysitter needed for twenty year old 
technical writer. Must be cute and very naive. 
Call x7223 anytime.
The CMU bookstore will be holding a going- 
out-of-business sale tomorrow afternoon at 1 
p.m. All textbooks 90% off while thay last.
The Rape and Pillage Club, has set its annual 
field trip for May 3. An $800 registration fee is 
required for bus fare and miscellaneous equip­
ment. Write Box 2, Skibo Information Desk.
Join the Vandalism Club. Reoendy backed by 
student senate and the Activities Fee, our first 
meeting is set for various locations in Morewood 
Gardens. Bring your own hammers and 
spraypaint.
Join the movement to assassinate Neil Ward. 
Write Box 12.
general
New Drama, fair stirs controversy
club
by Pippin Longaboutnow
The first New Drama Fair (NDF) con­
cludes this week at Camegie-Mellon Uni­
versity, where celebrities from as far away as 
Jniontown are expected to attend the gala
inale.
Student opinion aBSm-tbeJVDF is decid- 
dly mixed. “I liked the one aBottt rbe two 
oommates who were fighting about 
elephone bill,’’says freshman Gertie 
dilano. “I had a fight with my roommate 
bout our phone bill, so this was really 
eal.”
Other students seem to appreciate the 
nore “avant-garde” entries in the NDF. 
The play by Boris Entenmmann about life 
n post-war Chad was exhilarating,” claims 
ophomore music major Kyle Nonpareil. 
It is remorseful how little we know about 
]had even before the war, let alone after.” 
The playwrights, for their part, are 
emaining silent. A bitter rivalry has deve- 
>ped because of the prize money being 
ffered by CMU alumna, Patty Deutsch. 
iiss Deutsch, a former “Laugh-in” regular 
as posted $75 for the best play in the 
ontest.
The award will be given at the April 4 
nale in the lavish Kresge Theatre in front 
n audience , which is expected to include; 
en Tekulve, relief pitcher for the Pitts- 
urgh Pirates, Pat Shingleton, weatherman 
>r Steel City News, Doria Caligiuri, a first 
)usin of the mayor and Millie, the cashier 
om Salads Plus.
All of the plays in the New Play Fair are 
Titten by CMU students in the graduate 
laywriting course. All of the actors in the 
lays are students in th< CMU acting pro­
ram. All of the directors of the plays are 
udents in Cameige-Mellon’s illustrious 
irecting school. All of the se t designers are 
-sign students in the design program at 
MU, as are the costume designers and 
ghting designers, except the lighting 
“signers study lighing mostly and the cos- 
ime designers concentrate mostly on cos- 
ime design. The house manager and 
»hers are underclassmen in the CMU 
dma department, as are the students who 
prepare the reception for the closing 
ight ceremonies. The people who review 
le shows for the Natrat are in the english 
‘partment and not the drama department,
11 wish they could be in the drama depart- 
ent an<J audition every year only to be
rejected, rejected, rejected.
You can only reject someone so many 
times before he begins to get upset. Well, can 
you blame him. All’s I ever wanted was a 
chance. I know I can do it. I could played 
Timothy Hutton’s part in Ordinary People. 
My mother won’t talk to me either.
I’ll show you, I’ll show you all Ha, ha, ha 
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, haaaaaahaaaahaa!
The El Salvadorian Studies Committee in
ROTC is accepting applications for its foreign 
studies and batdefield strategy program. Be all 
that you can be in a real civil war. Details 
behind the Skibo Information Desk.
Society of Male Engineers Film: Highlights of 
exciting varsity action from this year’s women’s 
volleyball team will be displayed in selected film 
footage on Friday, 11 p.m. in DH 2100.
The Bestiality Club is sponsoring a dog show 
April 6 at 4:30 p.m. on the cut. Leather leashes are 
highly recommended.
The Computer Science Department is sponsor­
ing a public seminar, “Grooming Techniques 
for Hackers.” Emphasis will be on greasy, stringy 
hair and ill-fitting clothing. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. 
in the Terminal Disease Room.
The Quad-del ts, your service sorority, will be 
sponsoring the first annual “Getting to Know 
Your Biblical Experience.” All interested males 
should contact their favorite Quad for more 
information.
Remedial reading sessions for illiterate engineers
are scheduled for 3 p.m. Monday in Science Hall 
7500. Help those in need - read this ad to a friend.
Athletics and Robotics to combine
by Tim Woodsman
President Dick Sire, in a move that he says 
will benefit all parties concerned, unveiled 
his master plan to consolidate the Athletic 
Department and the Robotics Institute in 
the fall. Both Robotics Institute Director Raj 
Robot and Athletic Director Jim Flag were 
on hand for last week’s ceremony and both 
were visibly enthusiastic about the new 
department’s future.
“The merger will show the world how 
very versatile robots can be,” bubbled Robot. 
“Not many people are aware of the wide 
range of activities that these machines can be 
programmed to perform.”
Flag added that “More robots mean less 
people. Less people means a smaller pay­
roll. A smaller payroll means saving money 
and anything that saves money is OK by 
me.”
In the press conference that followed the 
announcement, a reporter asked Sire how he 
came up with the idea for the merger. He 
said that, while nothing has been said pub­
licly about it, the plan had been in the works 
for some time and several robots had already 
been filtered into the program.
“We’ve been very discrete about it because 
we didn’t want them to be treated any differ­
ently than the human athletes. They had to 
ride on the cramped buses, eat the stale box 
lunches, and turn in thier socks and jocks 
just like everyone else. Our first was a run­
ning robot, code-named DARIO. Clearly, it 
has been very successful...perhaps too suc­
cessful. Lately, its run so well that we’ve had 
trouble convincing people it’s human. 
That’s one reason we’re going public now.”
Robot and his associates are now trying to 
work the bugs out of their latest effort, a 
robot coach that was put into service last 
fall. Although his motor skills (i.e., sitting,
standing, walking, etc.) are adequate, the 
POLUSZEK robot has not yet mastered the 
English language. “It still hasn’t committed 
the coaches’ names to memory and says 
‘shucks and gotdamn!’ alot,” Robot con­
fessed. He is still confident that these prob­
lems can be cleared up soon, however.
Initially, the rest of the coaching staff was 
excited at the news. Basketball Coach Dave 
Baloney immediately placed an order for
five robots with the speed and jumping abil­
ity of Dave Bofmeister. After being con­
vinced by Robot that the robots do not rust, 
Swimming Coach Donna Pike placed an
order as well.
However,the coaches’ euphoria was 
short-lived. Earlier today Jim Flag 
announced that within two years, “as a cost 
cutting maneuver, all of our present coaches 
will be replaced by robots... except Calvin 
Klein.
Attention!
The Natrat would like to announce that it has no need 
whatsoever for writers or proofreaders. Our staff piesentl\ 
is made up of intellectual giants, so any attempt to join the staff 
will be met with disgust, revulsion , and violence.
WANTED
Mr Bogus Candidate
age 18, height 5'6", brown hair and eyes
Mr. Bogus Candidate is wanted for the assasination of his 
own campaign. He was last seen posing as a mushroom 
on the cut, but his present form is unknown. Capture is 
futile, when confronted his identity is likely to change.
He is thought to be armed with a warped sense of humor, 
and could be dangerous to your mental health.$.000005 Reward

---------------------------------------------------

Go for quality. Go for Tushache.
Now with Braille labels, so he’ll know you’re wearing quality. 
Get the Tushache feel at a department store near you.,
designer jeans since 1981. From $50
__________
