TARTAN
Cheating"Defined
by Elliot Ohlberg
Next year’s student handbook will see a 
new University rule on cheating and plagia­
rism. The need for such a rule became evi­
dent when it was discovered that a clear 
statement of University policy on this issue 
did not exist. The discovery was prompted 
by a case brought before the University 
Disciplinary Committee.
The case involved a student who was 
accused by his professor of cheating, and
Computer Loses 
Chess Match
by Joseph Bartnicki
:/} In August of 1968, David Levy, a Scot- 
*;> tish chess master, bet that no computer 
program developed within the next ten 
years would be able to beat him in a game 
of chess. On Friday, April 1, Levy de­
feated the CYBER 176 computer in 42 
moves, proving that, so far, at least, he is 
winning the bet.
Levy made the bet with Professor 
Donald Michie, a computer scientist from 
V the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, and 
three other computer scientists. Michie is 
a visiting professor at CMU this semester, 
and invited Levy to test his bet against 
CHESS 4.5, a program written by David 
Slate and Larry Atkin. CHESS 4.5 has 
won several of the Annual Computer Chess 
Championships, and is considered by some 
to be the best chess program written. 
¦** Recent changes in the program and the use 
of the faster Control Data CYBER 176 
computer have vastly improved the original 
program, and have earned it an Expert 
rating, which is close to Levy’s Master 
rating.
The machine has great advantages over 
a human in speed, accuracy, and absolute 
t concentration. The computer stores about 
t 5,600 different positions for the opening 
game, which is played from memory. (A 
chess game is divided into three parts, each 
part requiring different strategy: the open­
ing game, the middle game, and the end 
game.) In the middle game, the computer 
is usually a level 8 player, which means 
that it can see eight moves ahead. Because 
there are about 30 moves available on each 
f turn, the computer examines 30^ different 
branches before making its move. At times, 
the computer can go deeper than the 
eighth level.
Levy’s strategy was to “keep the pos- 
Continued on page 7
was subsequently failed. Believing he was 
unfairly accused, the student appealed to 
the Disciplinary Committee. The Commit­
tee upheld the professor’s decision, even 
though University policy on cheating was 
vague at that time.
The Administration then requested that 
the Faculty Senate Student Affairs Com­
mittee draft a clearly-defined policy on 
cheating and plagiarism. The policy, which 
met with no disapproval from Student 
Senate, was recently passed by the Faculty 
Senate.
The new rule does two things: it clearly 
defines what constitutes cheating, and 
states that an accused student has the right 
to request that the charge be heard before 
the University Disciplinary Committee. 
Following is the complete text of the new 
rule.
University Rule on Cheating and Plagiarism
Students at Carnegie-Mellon University 
are engaged in preparation for professional 
activity of the highest standards. Each 
profession constrains its members with 
both ethical responsibilities and disciplin­
ary limits. To assure the validity of the 
a ar-*, a | Continued on page 10Art Gallery 
Loses Funds
by David C. Mongeau
Forbes Street Student Gallery is being 
forced to consider major changes, because 
of a cut in University compensations for 
Gallery workers. Gallery Director Cynthia 
Ference explained that the tuition scholar­
ships that support gallery members will be 
discontinued after next year.
The Gallery is not disputing the Univer­
sity’s decision to discontinue the scholar­
ships for both the director and two assist­
ant directors, but its members are actively 
searching for ways to maintain the Gallery 
without these funds.
“No one is sure how the Gallery will 
change or what will happen,” said Cindy. 
“Two possible ways to make money are 
art rentals or a framing service. Maybe it 
will totally be changed around. But 
another type of compensation must be 
made to get involvement. Gallery members 
spend fifteen to twenty hours a week 
working, and they cannot afford to do so 
without some sort of compensation.”
A committee with representatives from 
Continued on page 6
Robert R ice, head of Biology DepartmentRamananBiology Changes
Leas that 15 students have questions for President Cyert. See Views, page 3.popowiu
by Gary R. Fabian
A number of curriculum changes have 
been confirmed in the Department of 
Biological Sciences. The major change is 
the establishment of two “tracks” leading 
to a B.S. in Biology. According to Dr. 
William S. Kelley, of the Biological 
.Sciences Department, the need for revision 
was emphasized by the “crunch” exper­
ienced by the sophomore Bio-majors. In 
the past, they were required to carry 
Physics III, Calculus III, Experimental 
Techniques in Chemistry I, Genetics, and 
Organic Chemistry I in the same semester. 
Now, Kelley said, as a result of the two 
track system this will no longer be neces­
sary.
The two tracks which were proposed to 
and accepted by the College Council are 
the Biochemistry/Bio physics Track and the 
Molecular/Cellular Biology Track. In 
addition to the core courses required for 
all Bio-majors, requirements for the Bio­
chemistry/Biophysics Track are: Physical 
Biochemistry, Physics III (explained be­
low), and Introduction to Biophysics.
Spirit Results
by Elliot Ohlberg
The election of new officers for Spirit 
was completed right before Spring Break. 
Barney Wilson, Kwasi Mensah, Mike 
Herron, and Dale Austin were elected 
Coordinator, Co-coordinator, Treasurer, 
and Secretary, respectively. All four are 
presently freshmen. They will be making 
the plans and decisions for Spirit next year, 
along with yet-to-be-elected representatives 
from each class, and an administrative 
advisor.
Leslie Cox, now ex-Coordinator, said 
voter turnout was good. One hundred 
thirty-four ballots were counted, even 
though only 132 people noted. This 
inconsistency necessitated a second 
election for Co-coordinator. (The other 
races were not decided by less than three 
votes.) Cox said that the inconsistency 
was probably caused by two students 
forgetting to sign the registration sheet.
The new officers took office on April 12. 
Many things have already been planned for 
next Fall, including a retreat at Seven 
Springs, and a Graduate School Day, when 
grad schools will be invited to present 
what their school has to offer to grad 
school-minded students. Barney Wilson and 
several Spirit members will be asking
Continued on page 11
Required courses for the Molecular/Cell­
ular Biology Track are Developmental 
Biology, and Virology.
A major change in both curricula is the 
delay of Calculus III for all Bio-majors, and 
the instituting of a Physics III course which 
will not have a Calculus III prerequisite: 
Calculus III, taken in the sophmore year 
by all other MIS students, will be taken in 
the junior year. The program will lead to 
a B.S. in Biology; a B.A. will no longer be 
Continued on page 10
inside
news
Spring Carnival Preview:—“Get out those 
belly dancing costumes, practice those hog- 
calls, and dust off your tubas and tap 
shoes.” (page 6)
j
Hot Food in Skibo—The Kiltie Cafe in 
Skibo will be renovated over this summer 
in order to provide hotter food and seat 
more people, (page 7)
Ceiling Caves In— The ceiling of the Mudge 
Graduate House kitchen came crashing 
down, ten feet from Head Resident Dr. 
Bob Morgan, last week, (page 7)
entertainment
Theatre Express Continues to Grow— 
Theatre Express returns to Pittsburgh 
April 17 - May 3. (page 17)
The Late Show-“Man meets woman, man 
begins to begrudgingly tolerate woman, 
man admits love to woman. . .to live 
a life of eternal happiness.’’(page 15)
sports
Sweepstakes Predictions— The little green 
gnome from Panther Hollow predicts bug­
gy winners again, (page 24)
Concrete Canoe- Canoe team sweeps all 
four races in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
(page 25)
April 19, 1977 Volume 77, Number 23 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The Standard Tool
When McLuhan predicted the slow death of the age of 
Gutenberg more than a decade ago, he theorized that the ever 
more rapid exchange of information permitted by an ad­
vanced communications technology would bring about the 
obsolescence of the written word. He predicted a change in 
the nature of the communique; but as the shift from verbal 
to visual form, and thus content, occurred, he assumed that a 
basic need for communication would continue. And it 
does. But in these 1970’s we have not yet arrived at this hell 
or utopia. We are evolving, but unevenly; a gap has deve­
loped between expectation and achievement. We are accus­
tomed to instant gratification of many needs and desires by 
sophisticated servomechanisms, but as yet we possess few 
aids capable of satisfying other less physical wants with 
minimal effort. One of these is for the exchange of informa­
tion, particularly difficult for those who are not professional 
communicators.
The headline across, taken from a recent letter, demon­
strates one student s problem and his awareness of its super­
ficial aspects. He admits that he cannot spell; it is obvious 
that he is uncomfortable with standard sentence structure 
and is frustrated by his effort to compose so that he does 
not attempt to complete it through correction. But that he 
does not feel compelled to remedy his disability, and does 
not recognize its roots, is less his fault than of those who pro­
fessed to have taught him how to write. He does not possess 
the proper tools for constructing the product he wants; he is 
hammering a nail with a sponge. The problem here is that 
as-a native speaker of English he is expected by others, and 
himself, to know how to do it instinctively. This is also true 
for students who are called upon to speak publicly and are 
unable to do so.
It has been argued that a university such as CMU should 
not undertake the development and administration of reme­
dial courses, and that a "writing sample" be a required 
part of the admissions procedure. But this is discrimination 
on the basis of a highly subjective “standard" tool, which a 
prospective freshman may or may not already possess, but 
which is easily attainable. Better that a university seek stu­
dents who possess qualities enabling them to continue 
learning, who are able to acquire skills as they are needed. 
After matriculation, they can be provided with the body of 
knowledge they need to "standardize" their skills.
The question arises here of who is to determine funda­
mentals and make them known. It has long been held, par­
ticularly by those who are not involved with the teaching of 
English, that departments of English are responsible for 
preserving the nation's literacy. But is this necessarily true 
or fair? "English " is a collection of disciplines whose com­
mon denominator is that their medium is language. Techni­
cal writing, creative writing, journalism, ad composition, 
literature, the writing of plays and the teaching of all of the 
above: all are professions in their own right, for which
facility with words is obviously a basic requirement. But less 
apparent is that other professions, dealing in other "materi­
als", also need these basic understandings and skills. When 
the fundamentals of two diverse groups are identical, why 
should one serve the needs of the other? And when the 
refinement of these skills to better serve a field of study 
requires the teacher to have a familiarity with that field, 
is not someone currently involved with that field in the best 
position to develop it? For as jargon to one group is a neces­
sary part of the language to another, “standard" methods of 
presentation in one area may be totally unacceptable to 
another.
A program similar to, or an extension of, the Communi­
cations Skills Center, but on a larger scale and mandatory 
for many, if not all, students would standardize the know­
ledge, if not the aptitude and talent, possessed by all stu­
dents shortly after their entering the university. Scheduling 
conflicts could be avoided by either an independent study/ 
tutorial format or by scheduling classes throughout the day, 
at the same level, so that students could attend any time 
their schedules permitted them to do so. Beyond this intro­
ductory course, each department would develop one more 
protocol specific to their area of concentration. These could 
be arranged within the department to avoid conflicts with 
other courses in the major field. Grading could be pass¡fail, 
with no influence on Q.P.A., but required for graduation. A 
simplistic solution? Perhaps. And a required course with 
no immediately obvious relation to major study will not be 
greeted enthusiastically by many. But this is one solution of 
many that should and must be considered. We can no 
longer simply blame the high schools, thereby burying 
responsibility. We have a problem that can only worsen with 
time.
Paula Maris Shu bock 
Editor
Letters
$$$
Editor:
This University not infrequent­
ly makes unsubstantiated claims 
about its rating. A look at the 
recent ratings in “New Engineer” 
might be an eye-opener for CIT 
departments. Even though that 
rating is not above criticism, yet 
it may be some indication. It 
might even seem “insulting” to 
some of the top administrators to 
compare CMU with U. of Pitts­
burgh, but that is exactly what I 
am going to do and prove indirect­
ly that CMU rates lower. A grad­
uate student teacher, whether in 
formal classes or in private tution 
earns $5 to 10 per hour at Pitt. 
The student employment corpora­
tion at CMU contracts for $5 per 
hour for private tution. If the 
standard is higher at CMU, how 
come its students get lower rates 
for the same kind of private tu­
tion? That is not all; I gave my 
name to “the corporation” over 
1 Vi months back, yet nobody has 
contacted me. This shows that 
there is not too much demand for
CMU tutors, yet on the other 
hand, there are not enough tutors 
at Pitt to meet the demand. A 
friend of mine keeps rejecting too 
many offers and recently I taught 
a student of his at $10 per hour. 
A “Proctor” even in senior SPL 
course earns $3 per hour at CMU. 
There is no compensation for pre­
paring for such an advance course 
which invariably is required. One 
explanation given for this ridicu­
lously low rate was that it is a 
token payment. I wonder how 
many proctors teach SPL courses 
for gaining experience in teaching. 
To my knowledge, most do it for 
the money, and that is meagre 
money. If paying $5-10 per hour 
makes SPL too expensive and if 
students do not prefer SPL to the, 
lecture format, scrap the SPL. Let 
me site another indirect evidence 
of our bloated rating. Students 
were required to pay some money 
to get the privilege of being listed 
in the summer employment direc­
tory at CMU. “Time” reported 
about three years ago that Har­
vard Business School charges cor­
porations $75 for the directory
of its graduating class. I wonder if 
any department can ask for any 
money from the corporations for 
its class at CMU.
“Underpaid”
TOO MUCH CHATTER
Editor:
That the “Letters” section of 
this paper provide an outlet for 
student discourse is obvious, but 
to publish the preponderance of 
inanities the many prattlers and 
bigots dutifully submit demons­
trates an inept and/or irrespon­
sible editorial staff. By failure to 
impose discernible standards, the 
editors encourage every merry- 
andrew who wants to see his 
name-in-lines, and so malign not 
only the integrity of the paper, 
but of the campus community as 
well. I do not propose to elimi­
nate vacuous writing, but empha­
tically recommend that the edi­
tors discourage its proliferation by 
excluding it from publication. 
There exists a multitude of topics 
of infinitely greater social value 
than those generally chosen, and I
1rARTAN[
Volume 77
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Paula Maris Shubock 
David G. Roussos 
Joe Loughran 
Sherry Siegel 
Casey Childs 
Jeff Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Production Head: Vivian Kerstein
Staff Photographers: Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tad Dickenson, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

_________________________ VIEWSPresident Cyert at Student Senate
by Sherry Siegel
President Cyert attended this 
past Thursday’s Student Senate 
meeting, in order to talk to stu­
dents personally and answer any 
questions they might have about 
CMU.
Less than 15 students showed 
up. The meeting had been public­
ized through Campus Calendar, 
WRCT, the TARTAN, and pos­
ters, and the President was notice­
ably surprised at the poor turn­
out. David Roussos, Senate Chair­
person, introduced the President, 
who said, “I’m glad to be here. 
I’m surprised we don’t have a lar­
ger attendance.” He continued to 
say that he would like to have 
such meetings once every semes­
ter, so he could get more in­
volved with Student Senate and 
receive questions from students. 
Before taking questions from the 
floor, President Cyert, spoke 
briefly about tuition, overcrowd­
ing, the $100 million fund-raising 
drive, (Investments in Progress), 
and long-range goals of CMU.
Tuition
“I’m a strong proponent of 
keeping our tuition on the low 
side. Unfortunately, one cannot 
keep tuition constant in the face 
of an inflationary economy." 
President Cyert told the audience 
that an increase for the 1977-78 
school year was announced in 
July of 1976; we are the only 
university in the country to 
announce tuition hikes over a year 
in advance. The Tuition Commit­
tee is presently lookin into 1978- 
79 costs, and will report in May.
The President cited other
schools with quality comparable 
to CMU. and claimed that our 
tuition has gone up 10% financial 
aid for the same time period has 
increased about 30%. CMU is 
trying to get an increase in its 
endowment, and is looking for 
other possible sources of money.
Overcrowding 
President Cyert acknowledged 
student’s concern over crowded 
dormitories and classes. He hopes 
that a new dormitory will improve 
the situation in time for the 1978- 
79 academic year. Though the 
dorm has yet to be approved by 
the Trustees, he is confident that 
they will support the plan at their 
meeting in May.
The President announced a 
change in policy Regarding Art 
and Design department faculty 
hours, which will help alleviate 
overcrowding in CFA. Cyert re­
minded listeners that each depart­
ment has a voice in the admission 
process, and although he admitted 
that the departments may feel 
pressure from above, overcrowd­
ing “is not something that’s being 
forced on them.” The Art and 
Design departments will take few­
er students next year than they 
had this past year.
Fund-raising 
56 million of the 100 million 
dollars the University is aiming for 
in its fund-raising drive has been 
pledged. Although about 34 mil­
lion has been pledged by an 
anonymous benefactor, and won’t 
be received until after his death 
Cyert announced that the drive is 
going well. Gulf and UJS.Steel re­
cently pledged $2 million each.
more Letters
believe a discriminating editorial 
policy would inspire creative dis­
cussion within such areas.
The new board of editors has 
pledged “changes in format, style 
and content. . .to provide.. .more 
relevant, enlightening and helpful 
news.” I trust this statement 
assures improvement in the quali­
ty of future “Letters” If not, I 
suggest appropriating the space to 
a less wasteful undertaking.
Eric Keller
Point taken. Thank yov
C'MON, GEORGE
Editor:
As former president of Carnegie 
Commuter Council of Pittsburgh 
(CCCP) I must take offense at two 
recent TARTAN articles concer­
ning CCCP elections. These ar­
ticles based totally on hearsay 
(the “informed sources” didn’t 
even have the courage to give their 
names) misrepresent the facts. 
The TARTAN in its infinite wis­
dom chose not to ask me whether 
or not an appeal petition had been 
filed. The facts are as follows:
1) An election for CCCP of­
ficers was held on March 9 and 10 
as stated in numerous campus pos­
ters.
2) David Roussos, a CCCP pres­
idential candidate had complained 
of certain election irregularities.
3) After several discussions 
with Mr. Roussos an equitable and 
constitutionally sound method of 
appeal was devised.
4) Mr. Roussos then decided 
not to file an appeal petition (re­
quiring 50 commuter signatures 
calling for a referendum on the 
election).
A possible explanation for 
David Roussos not appealing the 
CCCP election is that since he is 
now Chairman of Student Senate 
and Managing Editor of the 
TARTAN he would be unable to 
serve as CCCP president due to 
time limitations. Criticism of the 
CCCP should be based upon the 
facts and not upon hearsay evi­
dence from unknown sources.
George Bachner 
Former President CCCP
At the time of publication, the 
procedure for submission of an 
appeal was in question; though as 
Mr. Bachner states, “after several 
discussions.. .a method of appeal 
was devised." The TARTAN edi­
torial criticism was that p wisions 
should have existed in the CCCP 
Constitution before the incident 
occured, rather than to have de­
veloped in a highly controversial 
atmosphere afterwards. While we 
are currently reviewing our policy 
and purpose, we encourage other 
organizations to do the same.
Long-range Plans and Goals
“CMU is going to continue to 
aim for higher quality.” Cyert in­
tends to concentrate on those are 
areas that have the potential to be 
further improved, though he em­
phasized that there were presently 
no plans to eliminate any other 
programs. He’d like to see some 
more interdiciplinary activity, and 
continued improvement of teach­
ing. Saying that most of the 
teaching at CMU is either good or 
very good, he admitted that there 
is poor teaching in some (“rela­
tively few”) areas these are 
receiving pressure to improve.
This past Saturday, teachers 
who are unanimously recognized 
as being good teachers were 
invited to a workshop, at which 
they and four psychologists who 
are experts in learning theory 
discussed teaching techniques. 
The psychologists, all from CMU, 
were Herbert Simon, John Hayes, 
David Klahr, and Robert Siegler. 
In addition, there were three ob­
servers to evaluate the workshop. 
If deemed interesting and success­
ful, the workshop will be repeated 
and expanded to include other 
teachers from the University.
President Cyert concluded by 
saying that we are in the age of 
the undergraduate. He believes 
that, ultimately, it will be seen 
that the univerisities which survive 
will be those that have been suc­
cessful in grappling with the pro­
blems of the undergraduate. Pres- 
idnet Cyert intends that CMU be 
one of those institutions.
Questions, Ideas, and Complaints
It is not difficult asking Presi­
dent Cyert a question. Rather, it 
is difficult to get the President to 
answer the question that was just 
asked. But this isn’t his fault. He 
is an intelligent man, a cautious 
man. Vague questions must first 
be clarified before they can be a 
answered, and students, hot- 
blooded youths that we are, are 
often too fond of asking questions 
that hint of mismanagement, 
wrong-doing, and scandal, but 
that are, in the final evaluation, 
only shallow, poorly thought-out, 
and vague. Be that as it may, we 
now proceed to the discussion 
part of the Student Senate meet­
ing.
The first question was from a 
senior Art student. She was con­
cerned over a number of things; 
that CMU had no Art History 
program to speak of, that studio 
space was cramped, that the Art 
faculty was too small and over­
worked, and that there was no 
money available for hiring addi­
tional instructors.
In reply, the President asked 
for data on the amount of money 
available to the Art department. 
The student could give none, and 
Cyert neatly summed up the ex­
change saying that students must 
be careful about throwing around 
words. Later, the President admit­
ted that he may have been too 
harsh on the questioner, but 
that students are occassionally 
“used” by faculty members. He
warned that students must weigh 
excuses given to them. He advised 
that students not settle compla­
cently for the excuse that “there 
isn’t any money.” There never is, 
Cyert said; we must work around 
such limitations. Students with 
complaints should talk to their 
department head or dean.
The second question was from 
another Art student, a friend of 
the person who asked the first 
question. She wanted to know 
what Cyert thought was the 
correct number of students in a 
class, and how many classes a 
teacher should teach in a semes­
ter. He answered that the standard 
course load for a teacher is four 
classes per semester,and that there 
is no right number of students for 
any single class.
In response to a question about 
the announced increase in parking 
rates, the President explained that 
CMU presently has low rates, and 
an increase is not unjustified. 
There are two ways available to 
deal with the increased demand 
for parking spaces: parking prices 
can be increased, or parking 
spaces can be distributed by a 
rationing system. This latter 
would probably squeeze students 
out. An attempt has been made to 
go to a first-come, first-served 
basis, but there are problems with 
this method.
A graduate student who taught 
technical writing to engineers was 
concerned over students inability 
to write, and he suggested that a 
specific couse in the English de­
partment be geared towards the 
engineer. President Cyert counter­
ed by saying that Freshman Writ­
ing is supposed to teach basic 
writing skills, and if a student 
needed more help, he or she 
should go to the Communications 
Skills Center, which was specific­
ally set up for such a purpose. The 
graduate student persisted, saying 
that there was such a large num­
ber of students who need help 
that a new course would not be 
inappropriate; at this point, Dean 
Swank stepped in and said that a 
university must meet certain aca­
demic standards, and credit can 
not be given for learning a skill 
that should have been learned in 
secondary school. Perhaps the 
answer involves tougher entrance 
requirements.
One student complained that 
two or three years ago, the 
President had decreed that no 
classes should be held from 
4:30-6:00, so students would have 
the opportunity, if so desired, to 
participate in sports. But chorus is 
held at that time, as is an archi­
tecture course. The President 
agreed that this was a direct 
violation of his request, and that 
he would see what he could do 
about that.
A student complained that there 
were no campus phones in the 
Fine Arts building. Cyert answer­
ed that there were no campus 
phones in any of the academic 
buildings. This is false- Dean 
Swank and students explained the 
situation to the President.
There were a number of ques­
tions concerning housing and the 
lack thereof. President Cyert 
admitted that no research had 
been done on what would happen 
after next year, when we would 
not be leasing 1H floors from 
Webster Hall and the new dorm 
might not be enough to solve the 
problem, but he said that re­
searchers have been studying 
situations that might come up in 
the future. After the baby boom 
bottoms out, CMU may be in the 
opposite situation it finds itself in 
now- we may have a surplus of 
housing.
In response to a question about 
what areas the President intends 
to strengthen, and what areas he 
plans to let slide, he replied that 
H&SS would be made into a 
strong liberal arts college; that the 
English and History departments 
would be strengthened. A Social 
Science department is being 
created: he has already made 
monetary commitments to a per­
son to develop such a depart­
ment. CFA will continue to 
receive strong support. Cyert 
intends to strengthen the engin­
eering labs for undergraduates: 
graduate labs are already in fairly 
good condition because they 
receive direct support from indus­
try. The Biology department will 
be improved, and in 2-3 years, 
Cyert envisions that the Math 
department be on par with the 
Math department at MIT. There 
are no plans that GSIA receive 
any special attention, but any­
thing can happen...
A student wondered whether the 
Hewlett Gallery would be im­
proved - he will be having a show 
there next year. Cyert said there 
was money slated for its renova­
tion. (Though presumably not be­
cause of this one student’s up­
coming show.)
To a question regarding the 
recent Health Department inspec­
tions of the University cafeterias, 
President Cyert answered that the 
violations were not major; the 
seriousness of the situation had 
been exaggerated.
A student complained about the 
lack of study space in Engin­
eering and Science Library; Presi­
dent Cyert agreed. He said that it 
was constructed poorly, and he 
would see what could be done to 
improve the situation.
The President spoke for a total 
of about 1 Vi hours. The questions 
were interesting, the answers, en­
lightening. The students were 
entertaining, and the President 
was revealing. A good time was 
had by all. Perhaps the next Sen­
ate meeting to which the Presi­
dent is invited will be attended by 
more students. I hope so. Our 
poor attendance at thes meetings, 
which are for our own benefit and 
enlightenment, can be taken to 
mean that we are uninterested in 
CMU. Our poor attendance can be 
cited by the President (and other 
University officials) as a reason 
for shutting off communication to 
us, rather than for increasing stu­
dent/administration interaction. It 
is a simple thing; it is our choice.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS¿.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
SPRING CARNIVAL SCHEDULE
THURSDAY 
12:00 Sweepstakes Design Judging 
5:00 Midway opens
Showmobile TG The Family of Eve 
8:00 SDC Square Dance in the Tent 
8:30 Scotch and Soda "Something 
Feudal" in Skibo Ballroom 
10:00 Fireworks above the Stuadium 
12:00 Midway Closes
FRIDAY
9:00 Sweepstakes Preliminary Races 
12:00 Arts and Crafts Festival opens 
SDC picnic in the Tent 
Kite flying in the IM Field 
1:00 Midway opens 
2:00 Relays on the IM Field 
2:30 Firsbee on the Cut 
6:00 Arts and Crafts Festival closes 
8:00 AB Concert in the Gym 
Joan Armatrading and 
Pure Prairie League 
8:30 Scotch and Soda “Something 
Feudal'' in Skibo Ballroom 
12:00 Midway closes
SATURDAY 
9:00 Sweepstakes Final Races
12.00 Arts and Crafts Festival opens
1 00 Midway opens
Tug of War/Plankjoust on the Lawn 
accross from Midway 
1:30 SDC Gong Show in the Tent 
2:30 Waterballoon/Gazorching on the 
Cut
6:00 Arts and Crafts Festival closes 
8:30 Scotch and Soda "Something 
Feudal” in Skibo Ballroom 
10:00 Midway closes
Awards Ceremony in the Gym 
10:30 SDC Dance in the Tent 
Spring Carnival T-Shirts are being sold at 
Entropy and will be sold on the Midway 
during Carnival. The supply is limited so 
if you want one they are $2.50 each. 
IT'S SPRING CARNIVAL TIME AGAIN 
A reminder to all Skibo Area 5 and 6 per­
mit holders that Spring CArnival has ar­
rived - April 21 — 23.
On Tuesday, April 19 at 5:00 p.m. a 
portion of Area 6 will be closed off for the 
construction of the SDC tent. We have ob­
tained permission from the City to park on 
both sides of Forbes Ave, from Beeler St. 
to the Skibo and Fraternity entrances. 
Please make use of this availability.
Do not block the bus stops or fire hy­
drants. Limited parking will also be availa­
ble in Morewood. (Permit holders only, 
during business hours) All individuals who 
can come to campus without their cars are 
requested to do so for this brief period.
Generation for Generation will be this 
week's film in the Ascent of Man series. 
The films are presented every Tuesday at 
11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. Bring your lunch and join us. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning.
The second and last spring Sleeping Bag
Campaign will take place on April 24 and
25. Last week’s campaign was successful 
and I hope enjoyable to all who partici­
pated. If you're interesting in hosting a 
student, or attending any of the campaign's 
events, get in touch with the Admissions 
Office. All your help will be appreciated.
Modern Language's SAC is sponsoring an,
International Party, Wednesday, April 20 
from 7-10 pm in the Welch Lounge. It is 
open to faculty and students and refresh­
ments will be served.
The custodians have been directed to re­
move all posters and announcements that 
are not placed in appropriate poster areas.
To save yourselves posters, money and 1 
time we will appreciate your assistance in 
adhering to the posting regulations.
The designated poster areas in Skibo are 
as follows:
1. All carpeted gray matter in the 
Lobby.
2. Carpeted kiosks in the Tartan Grill.
3. Wood areas to the right and left of 
the Info Desk.
4. Wood area next to Entropy.
5. White wall area to left of parking 
lot entrance.
If you have any suggestions about 
potential areas to be designated as autho­
rized posting areas, please let the Depart­
ment of Student Activités at 103 Skibo 
know.
POST-COLLEGE SURVIVAL. Insurance
Ins and Outs is the topic of this week's 
lecture and discussion, one of SARC's 
Financial Planning Seminars. The program 
begins at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Hunt 
Library multi-purpose room (entrance on 
Frew St.). Refreshments will be served. 
Free and open to the campus community.
Carnegie-Mellon University's music depart­
ment will present a concert by the CMU 
Orchestra and the combined university and 
Cameron choirs at 8 p.m. Tuesday, April
19 at the East Liberty Presbyterian Church 
The program will feature Stravinsky's 
"Symphony of Psalms" and Haydn's "Nel­
son Mass," with the composer's original 
orchestration of strings, three trumpets, 
timpani and organ. Conductor for both 
works will be Max Peterson, assistant prof. 
of music at CMU.
Soloists for Haydn's "Nelson Mass" will 
be sopranos Judith Robb Jenkins and 
Sharon Junken, mezzo-soprano Phyllis 
Kubey, tenor Martin Doner, and bass 
Michael Wieser.
The East Libert Presbyterian Church is 
located at 116 S. Highland Avenue. The 
concert is free and open to the public.
The best place in Pittsburgh to find pieces
of “foam rubber, wood scraps, leather cut­
outs, circles of formica, tubes from paper 
rolls - plus bits and pieces of wide array of 
discarded materials - is at the Creative Re­
cycling Center (CRC), 4614 Liberty Ave., 
Bloomfield.
Change of time—the Alternative Coffee
House will be open 8 pm to 12:30 am on 
April 22. 4515 Forbes Ave.
Interested in working on the homecoming
committee of SARC? Leave a message in 
the Alumni Office (5th floor, Warner Hall) 
for Sue Case. Please include name, address, 
and phone number.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Medical Ethics and the Law. April 20,
1977 , 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Auditorium, 
David Lawrence Hall, University of Pitts­
burgh, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA. 
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh 
Graduate School of Public Health (GSPH), 
member, University Health Center of Pitts­
burgh and the Western Pennsylvania Public 
Health Council (WPPHC). This fifteenth 
annual seminar is funded in part by the 
Maurice Falk Medical Fund. Discussion and 
debate topics include human experimenta­
tion; mental health and the law, and pa­
tients' rights and professional responsibili­
ties. There is a $3 registration fee. Advance 
registration is suggested. This program 
meets the criteria for six hours of credit as 
approved by the Pennsylvania State Board
of Examiners of Nursing Home Administra­
tors. This also meets the criteria for six 
credit hours in Category 1 of the Physi­
cians Recognition Award of the Ameri­
can Medical Association.
The seminar is open to interested profes­
sionals as well as the general public.— 
Contact: Marc Hiller, GSPH, Long Term 
Care Education Unit, A630 Crabtree Hall, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 
15260,412/624-3126.
On April 22nd & 23rd, the M.l.T Black
Students' Conference on Science & Tech­
nology will hold a conference on "Econo­
mic Development in a Technological 
Society." The major emphasis of the con­
ference will be on the application of pro­
fessional skills to provide a technical and 
political base from which to address the 
problems of economic development here 
and abroad. Information and illustra­
tions of such applications-will be provided 
by professionals in the academic, public 
and private sectors. The conference is to 
provide every student with a conceptual 
framework through which they can exam­
ine the relationship between their chosen 
fields and the needs and problems of their 
community.
For further information about the con­
ference, please contact Michael Alston, 
682-8376.
scholarships awards prizes
All CMU women graduates are eligible for
membership in the American Association 
of University Women, which has branches 
throughout the United States including 
five in the Pittsburgh area.
Seniors interested in knowing more 
about the Association should contact Dean 
Lloyd in BH 161 who serves as CMU's 
liason representative.
classified
Wanted - Summer sublet with own room
and not over $90. Phone 683-9906 after 6.
Sublet: Oakland Town House; Furnished, 3
Bed Rooms, Study room. Kitchen, Living 
room and 2 bathrooms, AC/WW carpeting. 
Basement. Fits five comfortably. Willing 
to bargain. Call 687—6558 anytime.
Housemate needed to live in cooperative
house in Point Breeze beginning May or 
June through August. 362-1640.
WANTED: Non-smoking summer house­
mates for 11-room Beeler Street palace 3 
minutes from campus. 683-1963.
Buy furniture 3-rm. apt. and secure lead
to beautiful apt. Shadyside. Phone 
441-6282,8:30-9 am.
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for
future jobs-PICA, ELITE. SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary, 761 -8584
Typing —CC Theses, Dissertations, term
papers, etc. Ask about free copying service. 
Call Janice 421—6483
Babysitter for Fall semester. 10—4 MT Th
F, 1 boy (one year), call 683-9670. Price 
negotiable.
Excellent opportunities for college stu­
dents to qualify as stock-broker or real 
estate salesperson-and to earn income 
while attending college. Financial Estate 
Institute is offering evening classes to 
qualify as stock-broker ($240.00 Tuition) 
and Saturday classes to qualify as real 
estate salesperson ($150.00 Tuition).
For Sale - 1975 FIAT 128 Wagon - Excell­
ent condition. Just tuned. 13,000 miles! 
9 Radial tires, AM/FM Radio, Number 1* 
Inspection, 4 speed, Ziebarted, Red w/tan 
interior, Front whell drive. Must sell. 
$2,200. Mt. Washington. 481-5459
Tennis Instructors, head pro, assistant pro,
and camp positions. Good playing and 
teaching backgrounds, good income and 
interesting work; locations in eight states; 
call (301) 654-3770, Robert Reade.
Europe via PanAm 707 for Less than %
economy fare. Call toll free (6—9 pm) 
(800) 325—4867 or see your travel agent. 
60-day advance payment required. Uni- 
Travel Charters.
Womens 10 speed bicycles. Peugeot. Ex­
cellent condition. $100. 362-1640.
Bronica 2% SLR, Body, 3 interchangable
film backs. 50MM, 75MM, 135MM lenses, 
sidegrip. 687-4724 evenings.
Self-Hypnosis Workshop, Terminate Smok­
ing Clinic. Write to Mr. TA. 5528 Raleigh 
St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Wanted: Opponents for military simulation
games. Waterloo, Crimean War, Salerno, 
many others. Prize money—$20 to $50. 
Call 355-0713 after 6:00 PM.
Food Day, April 21
Food.
You eat it every day.
Maybe even two or three times a 
day, if you’re lucky.
But did you ever stop to 
think about the food you eat?
Really think about it?
Do you know what’s in your 
food? The pesticides, preservatives, 
hormones, additives, and other 
mysterious “fine print’’ ingredients?
Do you know about the 
components of your diet, like excess 
fat and sugar, that can contribute 
to tooth decay, obesity, bowel 
cancer, diabetes and heart disease?
Do you know why people all 
over the world, even right here in 
the United States, are starving?
And why the U.S. is providing less 
food aid than it did ten years ago?
On April 21 we’re going to 
take one day and talk about all 
these things. With teach-ins, rallies, 
workshops, food fairs, conferences, 
special meals, events. And with a 
special emphasis on nutrition — 
the links between diet and disease.
Food Day. April 21, all 
across America.
Do your body a favor.
Be there.
FOODDAY \ „
Wheh n nMcLLM uapa
prditslMosa wf gGGGb
a a I would like Mo help orgunize a moo, Day event 
in my zovvxstMy Please send me information 
os how |n do it.
­ I cun coordinate Food Day for my city or 
xst.LcHtMy
ta q ; LszAoHL x tax-deductible donation.
srvLBiosL
d19tcL7H
ztMy
Feed your mind 
the facts about food.

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 5
tWeek in Review
The U.S. sharply increased its aid for
Zaire, but a bid for munitions failed. En- 
route to the embattled African nation in­
stead is $13 million in “non-lethal” sup­
plies which include even a transport plane. 
The French government is already lending
11 transport planes and crews, over heavy 
French Communist protest, to Zaire and 
Morocco, which has sent at least 1500 
troops and planeloads of arms to the en­
dangered copper mining center of Kolwezi. 
Zaire is reportedly mobilizing for an offen­
sive drive against the 3000 well equipped 
invaders who are allegedly supported by 
Angola, Cuba, and the U.S.S.R. The Soviet 
n t Union has issued denials of this allegation, 
4^r going so far as to declare inadmissable any 
foreign intervention into the struggle, but 
China, Egypt, Sudan and Nigeria have all 
proclaimed their readiness to aid Zaire, and 
West Germany has pledged $2 million in 
food and medical aid.
The Food and Drug Administration has
proposed a new plan for the regulation of 
the allegedly carcinogenic sweetener sacch­
arin. While it would be banned from food, 
cosmetics, and other drugs, it would still be 
sold over the counter as a weight control 
device and for use by diabetics. The label 
would have to contain a warning that 
saccharin causes cancer in animals. Saccha­
rin producers would have to prove its 
effectiveness in six months. Donald Ken- 
a nedy, FDA commissioner, claims that the 
1 new laws would eliminate 90% of saccharin 
use.
Nationalist Rhodesian leader, Robert
Mugabe, told British Prime Minister David 
Owen, that the Rhodesian conflict will be 
settled only by a “bitter and bloody war.”
tn
Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin,
has announced plans to go on vacation un­
til the May 17 elections, leaving the go­
vernment in the hands of Defence Minister 
Shimon Peres. The Attorney General of Is­
rael ruled that Rabin can not resign until 
after elections, because there is no provi­
sion for a caretaker prime minister to leave 
office. Rabin tried to resign last week after 
he was fined $1500 for his involvment in a 
personal financial scandal. Rabin’s wife 
had $10,000 in a bank account in the U.S., 
against Israeli law.
President Carter, while noting that he
had shown “maximum restraint” in at least 
three previous infractions, ordered the U.S. 
Coast Guard to enforce the U.S.’s new 200 
mile fishing restrictions. In response, the 
Coast Guard seized first a Russian trawler 
and subsequently their “mother” transport 
ship, hauling the two vessels to port in Bos­
ton. The Soviet reaction (since more cita­
tions have been issued against Soviet ships 
than any other country) was two-fold: 
they finalized their rejection of the latest 
U.S. arms limitation proposals, but also 
ordered Russian Fishing captains who sail in 
U.S. waters to strictly observe the Ameri­
can regulations.
Spanish Communists demonstrated in
Madrid in celebration of their party’s new 
legal status, last held in 1939. The conser­
vative Spanish military agreed to accept the 
government’s decision to legalize the 
Communists, apparently ending a political 
clash between forces of the Spanish army 
and government which incurred two resig­
nations and a move to censure Premier 
Adolfo Suarez’s government.
Israeli backed Christian rightists and
leftist Palestinians continue to fight as a 
joint effort by Palestinian Liberation Or­
ganization leader, Yasir Afafat, and the 
Syrian government to stop fighting on the 
Lebanese—Israeli border failed.
President Carter outlined Latin Ameri­
can policy concerns in a major adress to 
the Permanent Council of the Organization 
of American States. Surprisingly absent 
were the sweeping pledges for economic 
aid which have characterized previous such 
statements; rather, Carter made a point of 
avoiding being paternalistic or patronizing. 
The President did encourage multilateral 
trade negotiations in Geneva, and promised 
that the U.S. will sign a protocol that will 
prohibit deployment of nuclear weapons 
from Latin—America (refusal of the U.S. to 
endorse such an accord has, in the past, 
earned the country much criticism fom its 
Southerly neighbors). The President’s 
Statement also renewed Mr. Carter’s hu­
man rights campaign, a fact which many 
Latin—American governments are likely to 
consider quite irritating.
President Carter has, “in the interest of
equity,” commuted the 20 year maximum 
sentence of Watergate burgler G. Gordon 
Liddy, the last of the original “Watergate 
Seven” to remain in jail, Liddy was given 
the longest sentence because he refused to 
testify, saying that to do so, would be 
against his code of honor. Liddy becomes 
eligible for parole on July 7. However, he 
must still pay a $40,000 fine, unless he can 
demonstrate “pauper status.” The White- 
house has said that it is unlikely that others 
who were involved in the scandal will have 
their sentences commuted.
The government of South Africa has re­
jected a proposal to let people of mixed 
race serve in their all white parliament. 
This move was made against the liberal 
advice of a special commission on apart­
heid, and maintains the South African 
policy of discrimination against blacks.
The Florida legislature has defeated
passage of the Equal Rights Amendment 
for the fifth consecutive year. The bill 
must be ratified by three more states by 
March of 1979. However, some states 
which have not yet ratified will not recon­
vene their legislatures until after the cutoff 
date.
The Stock market advanced broadly and
consistently last week, as the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average climbed 28 points with 
advances taking place every day. Volume 
was very heavy when compared to previous 
weeks, with over 30 million shares being 
traded last Thursday. This shows investors 
are beginning to enter the stock market 
again and were optimistic about Carter’s 
plan to kill his own $50 tax rebate, because 
the exonomy needs a smaller stimulus than 
before, he claims. Good news came from 
Ford Motor Co., as it announced a five for 
four stock split, increased its quarterly divl- 
idend by 25%, and organized a committee 
to find a successor to Henry Ford III. Com­
puter makers stocks were weak because 
IBM announced more price cuts, a new 
model, and reported that first quarter earn­
ings were up only 5.3%, which was below 
analysts expectations.
SUMMER JOBS 
C-MAP PRE-COLLEGE PROGRAM
- The Carnegie-Mellon Action 
Project is in the process of hiring a 
staff of teaching assistants to work 
in the pre-college program from 
July 19-August 31, 1977. Applicants 
for positions in Physics or Calculus 
must have completed two years of 
college including Physics I, II, III and 
calculus I, II, III with a "B" average or 
better. For positions in Chemistry a 
chemical engineering, chemistry or 
biology major is preferred, previous 
tutoring or teaching experience is 
not necessary but helpful. Chances 
for employment are excellent if you 
are proficient in any two com­
binations of Physics, Chemistry or 
Calculus. To apply, come to the C- 
Map office, 410 Margaret Morrison 
Building March 30 - April 20, 1977, 
from 9-5. If you need additional in­
formation, call 621-2600 extension 
631 or 632.
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
and Wendolf Dolson
Financial Columnist: Mike Davis
Wall Street Journal courtesy of A. Rezek
cfleROPV
EnCTORwmmu l%i mm
N CONJUNCTION 
\NI1H \NRCT NNLL 
BE GIVING NNKY 
ENTROPY T SHIRTS 
FRON\ THE W:T 
TRUCK ON ÌHE 
l\KD\Nf\Y DURING 
SPRING CNRNVNL
FOR SME N ENTROPY 2.95 ea
J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN;- April 19, 1977
Spring Carnival Preview
by Sherry Siegel, Doug Weber, 
and Gary Fabian
With Spring Carnival only two days 
away, anticipation is running high and 
behind-the-scenes preparations are going at 
break-neck pace. Final touches are being 
put on booths, performers are polishing up 
their acts, and Buggy participants are 
psyching themselves for their moment of 
triumph.
The Carnival theme is Great Novels, and 
for those who can’t get through the pho­
netics on the T-shirts, designed by Kathy 
Corff, this year’s motto is
it’s a novel idea 
spring carnival 
(emu 1977)
Novels that have been transformed into 
booths include Moby Dick, Fahren­
heit 451, Alice in Wonderland, War of the 
Worlds, and The Godfather.
Thursday at noon, Sweepstakes Design 
Judging will take place in the gym. At 
5:00, Midway will officially open, and the 
Showmobile will begin this week’s TGIF 
dance, featuring The Family of Eve. 
Booths and rides on Midway will stay open 
until midnight; other special events 
planned for Thursday include an SDC 
Square Dance in the Tent, and fireworks.
On Friday, Buggy races start the day at
9 AM. The Arts and Crafts Festival opens 
at noon, when the SDC picnic begins in the 
Tent. In addition to receiving free hot
dogs, Coke, and pop corn, students have 
the honor of being served by such Warner 
Hall notables as Dean Swank, Dean 
Williams, Dennis Ryan, Bill Dillon, Oscar 
Mayer, and others. The picnic will last 
until 2 PM or until the food runs out. 
That evening, Joan Armatrading and Pure 
Prairie League will perform in the gym.
Buggy finals will be held at 9 AM on 
Saturday. At 1:30, SDC will present 
The Gong Show in the Tent. There will 
be cash prizes and trophies, and the judges 
will be people from the Administration. 
Chairperson of the SDC Spring Carnival 
Committee, Amy Boyle, says there is still 
space available for those interested in 
performing. “Get out those belly-dancing 
costumes, practice those hog calls, and dust 
off your tuba and tap shoes.” Interested 
“performers” should leave their names and 
phone numbers at the Skibo Information 
Desk. In the evening, the Awards Cere­
mony will be held in the gym at 10:00, and 
the SDC Dance will be held in the Tent at 
10:30. The semi-formal dance will feature 
Aura, a rock band. Free tickets will be 
available in advance at the Information 
Desk.
In addition to these events, Scotch ‘n’ 
Soda will be performing “Something 
Feudal” in Skibo Ballroom every evening 
of Carnival, and there will be continuous, 
live music on the Showmobile. When this 
article went to press, a mime show in the
Tent, starring Jewel Walker, had been all 
but confirmed. The time of this event is 
unknown. Because the IM field will be 
newly-seeded, events scheduled there have 
been rescheduled elsewhere. On Friday, 
Kite-flying, Relays, and Frisbee will all be 
on the cut. On Saturday, Gazorching will 
be held on the cut, and Tug-of-War and 
Plankjoust will be held on the lawn of 
Doherty House, on Forbes Avenue. It is 
not yet known where the Fireworks Show 
will be held.
The movie schedule listed in the Spring 
Carnival brochure is incorrect. Thursday 
night’s movie will be One Flew Over the 
Cuckoo’s Nest, and Friday night’s movie 
will be the Animation Festival. A Duet- 
a-Thon, providing 60 continuous hours of 
duets, will be going on near the Fine Arts 
building. Performers will be members of 
the Music department, mostly trumpet 
players, who have volunteered their time. 
All money raised from the Duet-a-Thon
will go towards buying records for Hunt 
Library.
Carnival T-shirts, now selling in Entropy 
along with Entropy T-shirts, will be sold on 
the Midway by Lambda Sigma.
This year as in past years, WRCT will 
change its format for Spring Carnival. In 
order to Create a carnival-like atmosphere, 
the daytime programming (7 AM—12 mid­
night) will be a mixture of current and old
hits. Bill Doorley, General Manager of 
WRCT, wants recognizable songs on the 
air. The station will accept requests which 
are in keeping with this format change.
The station’s equipment will be in a 
truck on the Midway. Most of the music 
will be pre-recorded on tape and played 
from the truck. Special requests will be 
played from the turntables in the studio.
WRCT will provide complete coverage 
of the Buggy races. They will have a truck 
near the starting gate, mobile coverage, 
and remote coverage. All ten heats will be 
aired live, for those who can’t drag their 
bodies over to Margaret Morrison at 9 in 
the morning to watch the races themselves. 
A1 Bach, Assistant Sports Director at 
WRCT, will even broadcast a post-Buggy 
round-up.
People who are interested in reporting 
on Carnival events are urged to contact Bill 
Doorley. Sports coverage is especially 
desired.
WRCT will be giving away several 
hundred current record albums, along with 
Spring Carnival T-shirts, during the Carni­
val weekend.
Ride tickets will be on sale at the Infor­
mation Desk at a 10% discount until noon 
on Thursday.
Diane Maddock, Spring Carnival Chair­
person, wishes to thank all the people who 
have contributed their time and efforts 
towards making Carnival ’77 a success.
Message from the Gallery
by Janice Mauriello
From talking to fellow students through­
out the year, I have concluded that there 
are widespread misconceptions about to 
whom the Forbes Street Gallery extends 
its service. Many believe that the Gallery is 
for the exhibition of works by only senior 
students in Art and Design. Similarly, it 
is believed that only seniors are eligible 
for staff positions at the Gallery. In fact, 
the Gallery invites students from any major 
in the University to submit their work. 
Also, we welcome students from other 
disciplines to familiarize themselves with 
the operations of an arts organization by 
offering their services as volunteer workers.
In an effort to prevent this open invita­
tion from being mere theory, we are 
presently putting it into practice by in­
viting all CMU freshmen and sophomores 
to submit drawings and prints to be exhib­
ited at the Freshman and Sophomore Show. 
Work can be brought to the Forbes Street 
Gallery on Thursday, April 28 from noon 
until 4:00 PM and on Sunday, May 1 
from 5:00 until 8:00 PM. It is important 
that the artist is aware of the following 
three points: 1) He or she has the option 
of selling the submitted work; 2) The 
work will be available for return on Sun­
day, May 8 at 4:00 PM; 3) The artist may 
store the work in the Gallery over the sum­
mer, at no cost, if he or she will be gone by 
May 8. Students, faculty, and members of 
the off-campus community are invited to 
attend the show’s opening on Tuesday, 
May 3, from 7:00 to 9:30 PM.
The Forbes Street Gallery staff wishes 
to emphasize that this open invitation also 
applies to shows coming up in the 1977-
1978 term. Thus, we hope that over the 
summer, interested students will think 
seriously about submitting works for one 
of our group shows, an individual show 
(usually two or three students share an 
individual show), or in the continuing 
display room. We plan to rotate the work 
more frequently next term in the contin­
uing display room--perhaps on a monthly
Three Tuesday night openings remain
this term: April 19, April 26, and May 3. 
All are invited to these festive occasions, 
where they can meet the artists and pre­
view their work. Forbes Street Gallery 
hours are Tuesday through Sunday, noon 
to 4:00 PM, and Tuesday through Thurs­
day, 7:00 to 9:00 PM.
Janice Mauriello has recently been ap­
pointed director of the Forbes Street 
Gallery for the 1977-1978 season.
Gallery Funds
the Gallery, Student Senate, Student Cor­
poration and AMS is going to be formed to 
consider proposals for changes. Cindy 
expressed the importance of the Corpor­
ation’s involvement as a means for finding 
work opportunities for Gallery members.
Cindy explained the importance of the 
Gallery at CMU. “Gallery is very different 
than any other student organization on 
campus. We in many ways represent this 
university. Over fifty percent of our sales 
are off-campus, and the Pittsburgh com­
munity does view us as a professional--not 
student-gallery. We work with the public 
and community. This pressure and involve­
ment was the main reason for the tuition.
“Also, there is a big untapped resource 
of students here. People get the wrong idea 
that Gallery is just for art majors; we don’t 
limit or judge anybody.”
Cindy emphasized the need for greater 
student involvement; she added that the 
Gallery is the only student art gallery in 
the country run totally by students. A 
number of forum lunches in the fall are 
being planned to increase awareness in 
Gallery.
No Comment
“Jesus of Nazareth” finished behind 
“Laverne and Shirley” in that week’s 
Nielsen ratings. The ABC situation-comedy 
had a 32.6 rating and attracted a 51 share 
(per cent) of those who were watching TV 
at the time, while the first 3-hour segment 
of the story of Jesus had 32.2 and a 50- 
share.
Hill Loses Power
At 9:14 PM on March 28, the lights in 
Donner Hall flickered on as power was 
finally restored. The lights in Boss, McGill, 
Scobell and the others soon followed. The 
Hill dorms were without power for almost 
14 hours when the main transformer ser­
ving the area blew out at about 7:45 AM. 
Duquesne Light Company officials estim­
ated that it would take at least 24 hours 
to replace the transformer, permanently 
solving the problem. Rather than incon­
venience the residents for this extended 
length of time, the University had a tem­
porary transformer installed by the electric 
company. This enabled workmen to res­
tore power to the buildings in less than 14 
hours. They returned the next day to in­
stall the permanent transformer.
Without power, many residents with 
electric alarm clocks were late for classes, 
ice cream melted in freezers, and hairdryers 
were rendered useless. Problems were com­
pounded as the sun went down, and it be­
came dark inside as well as outside. Halls 
and stairways were treacherous; fortunate­
ly, no one was injured. Residents of the hill 
dormitories handled the situation well.
In response to the crisis, Hunt Library 
offered to stay open until 2 AM, but
Cummis Wins Skating Award
by Sarah Diamond
Andrea (Andy) Cummis, a sophomore 
majoring in Electrical Engineering, has won 
first place in Bronze Dance in the Niagara 
Invitational Ice Skating Competition, held 
in March at Niagara, New York.
The bronze medal signifies that it was 
a regional competition. Silver signifies a 
national competition, and gold is used for 
world competitions. Andy has won several 
bronze medals, and some silver medals.
Andy resumed skating only this past 
Christmas, after having quit for two years. 
Before quitting, she had been ice skating 
for 13 years. She has just now quit for the 
second time; it is difficult to find the time 
to practice six days a week.
Many students know Andy as the 
founder of the Ultimate Frisbee Club—she 
started the CMU chapter last year when she 
was a freshman. This year, she is coach to 
the Frisbee team, Assistant General Manag­
er at WRCT, a member of A Phi O, and a 
member of Lambda Sigma. She also finds 
time to attend classes.__________
because power was restored, they closed at 
their regular time.' Skibo Main Dining 
Room was open until midnight, and two 
extra Security officers patrolled the dorm 
areas. Dean Williams, the director of 
Student Life Office, sent a memo to the 
students warning them of the situation and 
urging them to be careful.
Some students were surprised and 
encouraged to see that several University 
administrators stayed on campus through­
out the evening. Dr. Richard Van Horn, 
Dean Earle Swank, Bill Dillon, Rob Heath, 
and Bill Blue were on the scene when the 
lights came on-just in time for “Charlie’s 
Angels.”
STUDENT SENATE
Wednesdays, 6:30
WHERRET ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 7
Hot Food in Skibo
by Joan Konkle Services intends to install a PA system in
The Kiltie Cafe in Skibo will be reno- the Grill soon, in an effort to reduce the 
vated over this summer in order to provide congestion caused by people waiting at
hotter food and seat more people.
To keep food hot and reduce the time 
spent waiting in line, a “scatter system” 
will be installed. There will be four lines in 
the cafeteria, two on each side. The lines 
next to the coat rack will be for beverages 
and condiments. The two already existing 
lines will be for hot and cold food.
To prevent the entrees from getting cold 
while vegetables are being put on the plate, 
all vegetables will be served in small dishes. 
Plans include having a cashier at the end 
of each line during busy times, and offering 
about six varieties of made-to-order deli 
sandwiches, available for lunch and dinner.
Besides keeping food hot, a goal which 
John Eichmuller, Director of Food Services, 
called “one of our primary concerns,” the 
scatter system should at least double the 
present speed of the lines.
In addition to the installation of the 
scatter system, there are plans to increase 
the cafeteria’s seating capacity from 450 
to 600. This will be done by rearranging 
and adding tables and chairs, and removing 
the condiment stations.
According to Eichmuller, bids on the 
project will be submitted soon. He expects 
that the renovation will cost between 
$80-100,000. Dam and Pedone, the 
architectural firm that designed the changes 
in the Tartan Grill, drew up the plans for 
the Kiltie Cafe.
Because of the renovation, both the 
Kiltie Cafe and Faculty Dining Room will 
be closed throughout the summer. More- 
wood Cafeteria and the Tartan Grill will 
remain open on both a cash and contract 
basis.
During Spring Carnival, all six lines in 
the Tartan Grill will be open. Food
the counter for their orders.Ceiling 
Caves In
by Cleo Josqin
The ceiling of the Mudge Graduate 
House kitchen came crashing down last 
week, littering the floor with plaster and 
a supporting beam with an attached floures- 
cent light fixture. The Head Resident of 
Mudge, Dr. Bob Morgan, was standing 
about ten feet away from the area when 
the cave-in occured. The accident is attri­
buted to leaking water from repeatedly 
overflowing toilets on the third floor. 
The water seeped down to the second floor 
causing thfr first floor ceiling to collapse.
Maintenance had been informed about 
the leaking toilets, and the floors were 
mopped up, but the toilets were never 
fixed.
Just before Spring Break, the halls in 
A-wing were painted, the hall carpets were 
cleaned, and grass was planted around the 
edge of the driveway. Some members of 
the Mudge House Council believed that 
these cosmetic improvements were done in 
preparation for the coming visit of 
members of the Mudge family, who do­
nated the dorm to the University.
House Council President, V. R. V. 
Ramanan said that he hopes that the toilet 
problem will be given top priority by 
Maintenance, especially after “we were 
told at the Auxiliary Services Committee 
meeting that a major reason for housing 
rates increases is the increased cost of 
maintenance.”
It's Not Too Late— 
ToBeOn theGongShow!
Ask at Skibo Information Desk
Computer Chess Game
If-.»T SHIRTS 
NCW ON SÆE 
IN ENTROPY 
2.50 E4CH
ition quiet and avoid the tactical situations, 
where it would have too much of an advan­
tage. Then, every effort was made to have 
it commit too many pawns to the wrong 
square. [The computer’s] strategy is 
poor—it has a memory of the openings, but 
it doesn’t understand them.”
Admitting his surprise at the develop­
ments in computer-played chess, Levy said, 
“I had no idea that programs would be as 
advanced as this when I made the bet 
nine years ago.” But Levy still doesn’t 
think he will lose the bet, and is even con­
sidering amending it to cover another five 
years. It is reported that Botvinnik, a for­
mer World Chess Champion and a con-' 
tributor to the Russian chess programming
effort, told Levy nine years ago that “I feel 
sorry for your money.”
Two games were played by Levy and 
CHESS 4.5 here at CMU. One was a blitz 
game, in which each player is allowed five 
minutes for his entire game; the computer 
won. The serious match, which Levy won, 
is presented below.
VASQUE
RAICHLE
FABIANO
LOWA
GALIBIER
ÎECHNICA
I jQtuntam 7rail $b#p
SHAOYSIDC - 5435 Walnut Street (2nd Floor» 
Weefcdavi 12-9 Saturday 15 SS7 1700
W-CHESS 4.5
1. P-K4, P-QB4
2. N-KB3, P-Q3
3. P-Q4, P X P
4. N X P, N-KB3
5. N-QB3, P-KN3
6. P-B3, B-N2
7. B-K3, 0—0
8. Q-Q2, N-B3
9. B-QB4, P-QR3
10. N X N?, P X N
11. 0—0, N-Q2
12. P-B4, N-N3
13. B-K2, B-K3
14. P-QN3!?, N-Bl
15. P-QR3, Q-R4
16. P-QN4, Q-B2
17. P-B5, B-Q2
18. B-R6, Q-N3ch
19. K-Rl, Q-Q5
20. Q X Q, B X Q
21. R-B3, B-N2
22. B X B, K X B
B—Levy
23. R-Nl,N-N3
24. KR-B1, KR-QN1
25. QR-Q1, P-B3
26. P-QR4?, P-QR4
27. P-N5, P X P
28. P X P, R-Bl
29. R-Q3, R-B4
30. R-N3, R(1>QB1
31. R(l)-B3, P-R5
32. P-R4, P-R6
33. P X P, P X P
34. R-K3, B-K3
35. P-R5, P-N4
36. N-Q5, P-R7
37. R-QR3,BxN
38. P X B, R X P(7)
39. B-Q1,R-Q7
40. K-R2, R-B8
41. B-N3, P-R8=Q
42. R X Q, R X R
43. Resigns
SHADYSIDE CHURCH 
COLLEGE FELLOWSHIP
TIME OUT
Tuesday, April 19 
Christianity and Sociaty
"Sex and the Existence of God" 
Terry Thomas Grove City College
Tuesday April 26 
Christianity and tha Madia
"The Parable" Film based on Soren 
Kierkegaard s work 
Director-Producer James Hodge
Meetings preceded by volleyball 
and refreshments in Shodyside Gym.
Carnegie-Mellon students invited.
For further information call%
Wayne Nickerson - 682-4300
9:00 PM
9:00 PM

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 9
C/V. E Wins Paper Contest
Conference For Black Engineers
by Michael Alston
The Third Annual National Conference 
of the National Society of Black Engineers 
was held April 1-3 in Atlanta, Georgia. The 
two delegates from Carnegie-Mellon were 
Keith McDonald, a graduate in Civil 
Engineering-Mathematics, and Michael 
Alston, a sophmore in Electrical Engineer­
ing. In attendance at the conference were 
delegates (representatives with voting rights) 
and observers from over fifty-five institu­
tions across the country, including Brown 
University, Cal. Tech, Georgia Tech, Johns 
Hopkins, M.I.T., Pratt Institute, Princeton, 
Purdue, and Stanford.
The National Society of Black Engineers 
is a national student-based organization de­
dicated to the development of intensive 
programs for increasing Black and other 
ethnic minority participation in the field of 
engineering and engineering technology. 
These programs are initiated both within 
and outside the university community, and 
serve to strengthen relations between pro­
fessional industry and the Black commu­
nity. Members of the NSBE are encouraged 
to join and participate in their individual 
professional societies; the organization en­
deavors to provide general counseling to 
all. The objectives of the NSBE are to pro­
mote and develop minority student interest 
in engineering; to strive to increase the 
number of minority students studying engi­
neering at both the undergraduate and 
graduate levels; and to stimulate the ad­
vancement of the ethnic minority engineer 
in professional industry. Membership and 
participation in the NSBE is free from dis­
crimination on the basis of sex, race, 
religion, ethnic group, or national origin.
Beginning its third year of existence, 
the National Society, founded at Purdue 
University, is the unification of several in­
dividual groups across the country. The 
structure of the NSBE has three levels— 
national, regional, and local. The regional 
level is composed of six regions which 
encompass all the colleges and universities 
in the fifty states. Carnegie-Mellon is in 
Region II, which is comprised of six states 
in the Southeastern part of the U. S.: 
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Penn­
sylvania, South Carolina, and West Virginia. 
At the local level are the individual chap­
ters, which are chartered at various institu­
tions of higher learning.
At the conference, held on Georgia 
Tech’s campus, new National Officers, 
Committee Heads, and Regional. Chair­
persons were elected. In the election of 
Committee Heads, Keith McDonald was 
elected new Communications Committee 
Chairperson. Other accomplishments of 
the conference were the ratification of the 
organization’s constitution and by-laws, 
and the choice of an Official Seal for the 
NSBE. Guest speakers included Mayor 
Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, Mrs. Margaret 
Pittman of the Small Business Adminis­
tration of Atlanta, and Dr. Rudolph J. 
Frank, Electronic Systems Researcher of 
Bell Laboratories. Three workshops were 
held simultaneously on “The Motivation 
of Minority Students in the Engineering 
Colleges,” “The Future of the Black 
Female Engineer,” and “Strengthening 
Local Chapters.” Also held was a “Job 
Fair,” at which those at the conference 
were given the opportunity to meet with 
and, in some cases, be interviewed by per­
sonnel representatives from many 
businesses and corporations.
Next year’s conference will be held in 
Washington, D.C. on the campus of 
Howard University.
Seth Pearlman, a junior in Civil Engi­
neering, won first place prize in the 
Student Paper Contest at the 1977 
Allegheny Student Chapter Conference 
sponsored by the American Society of 
Civil Engineers. Forty-five people attended 
the conference, held at West Virginia 
University, representing CMU, Pitt and 
WVU. Mr. Pearlman presented a paper 
titled, “Civil Engineering in the Next 25 
Years.” Judges in the contest were Mr. 
William Atwell, Contact Member for 
the ASCE student chapter at WVU; Mr. 
Sherwood Richardson, President of the 
Pittsburgh Section of the ASCE; and 
Mr. Stuart Kirpatrick, Vice President of the 
Pennsylvania Glass Sand Corporation. 
Mr. Pearlman was presented with an 
engraved pen and pencil set, and the CMU 
Student Chapter was presented with a 
check for $30 for sponsoring the winning
You’ll never know how much good you can do until you doit*
Volunteer Candy Richards knows how much good shr can do She's dang it (or the children at a neighborhood day care center
;0 yox zrs HBrcL L.Ls r 
0L’ ioxcH r ’LL9O zrAA MiL 
ToAxsMrcy kzMtos fLsMLc ts 
yoxc Mo’sa -c ’ctMLE 
IToAxsMLLcCUprHits"MosO 
wafa gGGWja
;MUAA ,o yox "oo, Mo HLL 
io’ vxzi "oo, yox zrs ,oa
Vblunteer.
The National Coacr far Voluntary Action
speaker.
The Allegheny conference is held 
annually and hosted by one of the member 
Civil Engineering Departments. The 
purpose of the conference is to provide a 
forum for exchange of ideas amogg the 
student chapters. This year’s program 
included a guided tour of the Morgantown 
Personal Rapid Transit System. Also 
attending the conference were Assistant 
Professor Richard Luthy, who is Faculty 
Advisor to CMU’s ASCE, and civil engi­
neering students Dave Andreko and Doug 
Konopka.
SU PA Survey
by Sandy Como
Faculty and staff will be surveyed this 
month on the details of their selection last 
year of alternate health care plans. An 
overwhelming number of employees, offer­
ed a new and different medical health plan 
to replace the usual Blue Cross/Blue Shield, 
remained with the traditional plan. SUPA 
students conducting the survey hope to 
discover reasons for selection of the plans.
Students David Juba and Jonathan 
Shaddy, under the direction of Dr. Judith 
Lave, will distribute- questionnaires to a 
sample group of approximately 600 uni­
versity employees who were among the 
1600 offered alternative Health Main­
tenance Organization plan. (Only 200 
of the 1600 chose the new plan.)
The university offered the new pre­
payment plans as alternatives to the Blue 
Cross/Blue Shield insurance package in 
response to the recently-legislated federal 
Health Maintenance Organization Act. 
Central Medical Health Plan and Penn 
Group Health Plan provide subscribers with 
extended benefits in a centralized clinic 
housing, where physicians are able to 
take advantage of certain economies of 
sharing. The monthly premium, about 
seven dollars more expensive than the 
traditional plan, covers clinic visits, physi­
cians’ fees, prescription medications, and 
diagnostic studies, in addition to the un­
limited hospitalization and emergency 
care provided by the traditional plan.
Pointing out that their research may 
have implications for impending national 
health care program studies, Juba and 
Shaddy emphasize that response to the 
questionnaires is critical to the validity of 
their statistical sampling. They encourage 
faculty and staff receiving the question­
naires to complete them at home with help 
from their families, and return them
quickly. The 14 page survey, according to 
Continued on oaoe 12
Nuclear
Instructors
The leading operator of Nuclear Reactors is currently seeking men 
and women to serve on the faculty of its Nuclear Propulsion School in 
Orlando, Florida. A minimum of a Baccalaureate Degree with an 
engineering, pure science or math background is required. Advance 
degrees and teaching experience preferred but not mandatory. Selec­
ted highly qualified applicants still in pursuit of a Baccalaureate degree 
will be considered and if selected are eligible for monetary com­
pensation during the remainder of college. The successful candidate 
will be challenged by the entire spectrum of teaching, from remedial 
to post graduate courses. Subjects to be taught may include: 
mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, heat transfer and fluid 
flow, materials, chemistry, radio-logical controls and reactor plant 
engineering.
Competitive salaries, personal growth and development and ex­
cellent benefits are available to successful applicants. Upon selection, 
applicants are directly appointed Ensign, USNR, and are entitled to an 
excellent benefits program including 30 days paid vacation, free 
medical and dental care and a complete relocation policy. Please send 
resume, including salary history to:
Ltjg JACK REEVES, USN 
Nuclear Programs Officer 
Navy Recruiting District Pittsburgh 
Federal Building 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 644-5880/5898

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - TARTAN- April 19, 1977
Bio DeptChanges
Continued from page 1
available. This change affects this year’s 
Biology freshmen, and upperclassmen are 
to settle the matter with their advisors.
According to Dr. Kelley, these changes 
afford the student a greater ability to take 
courses in other fields of personal interest. 
They will also give the department greater 
flexibility in developing and instituting 
new classes.
Dr. Kelley emphasized that the curricu­
lum is not being softened, but merely that 
classes are being better distributed between 
the Sophomore and Junior years. He also 
pointed out that changing the curriculum 
required much cooperation and compro­
mise by all the departments and people 
involved.
A final change is that on graduation 
degrees, a title of specialization in one of 
the two tracks will be included, in addition 
to the more general title of “Biological 
Sciences.” (Biological Sciences is often
considered to mean only classical biology.)
Dr. Kelley is optimistic about the new 
changes. “I feel that we have made a 
positive, progressive step.”
Cheating Rule
Continued from page 1
learning experience, a university extab- 
lishes clear standards for student work.
In any presentation, creative, artistic, or 
research, it is the ethical responsibility of 
each student to identify the conceptual 
sources of his work. Failure to do so is 
dishonest.
Wherever a phrase, written or musical, 
a graphic element, a proof, or specific 
language is reproduced in the work sub­
mitted by a student, failure to indicate the 
source with quotation marks where appro­
priate, or footnotes, constitutes plagiarism
and is subject to disciplinary action. This 
definition of plagiarism will apply in all
THE WUJS INSTITUTE
Here’s a way for college 
graduates to experience Israel in 
a comprehensive one-year 
study/work programme. You 
spend your first 5 months in 
Arad, a dynamic new town, 
together with other graduates 
from all over the world. There 
you will study Hebrew, Judaica 
and Israeli sodety, combined 
with tours and a kibbutz period.
For the following 7 months or 
more, you can either work in 
your profession, volunteer in a 
kibbutz or development town, 
re-train professionally or continue 
studying. The World Union of 
Jewish Students Institute in Arad 
could be the beginning of your 
love affair with Israel.
Israel Ally ah Center, 515 Park Avenue,
New York, New York 10022, (212) 752-0600
For information, please send to the above address.
______________________________________Age—
87
Name _ 
Address.
City.JState-Zip.
University(USD)
Take an Education Vacation at RIT.
You'll have more than a vacation this summer.
In one to 11 weeks you can earn undergraduate
or graduate credit in
Fine and Applied Arts
Photography
Film and TV
Audiovisual
Instructional Technology 
Computer Science 
Humanities 
Communications 
Social Sciences 
Business
Mathematics & Statistics 
Engineering Technology 
Machine Tool Technology
Science
and much, much more.
For registration information and a 1977 
Summer Session bulletin, contact:P
 Rochester Institute of Technology
College of Continuing Education 
One Lomb Memorial Drive 
Roches^ÉV NY 14623 
716/464-2234
University courses unless modified in 
writing for a specific course by the instruc­
tor for that course.
Cheating includes, but is not necessarily 
limited to:
1. The use of unauthorized materials 
including computer programming in prep­
aration of an assignment or during an 
examination.
2. The submission or use of falsified 
data.
3. The submission of work that is not 
the student’s own.
4. Plagiarism.
5. The use of an alternate/stand-in/ 
proxy during an examination.
6. Supplying unauthorized data to 
another student tor the preparation of an 
assignment or during an examination.
In the event that a faculty member 
accuses a student of cheating and imposes a 
penalty, the student who believes that the 
accusation is unjust has the right to request 
that the charge of cheating be heard before 
the University Committee on Discipline.
At the option of the instructor, any 
case of cheating may be referred directly 
to the University Committee on Discipline.
New Head for TGIF Dances
by Gary R. Fabian
“People have to find out what TG’s 
are all about, ” said Beverly Marshall, 
newly elected head of AB’s “Thank God 
It’s Friday” dances. Ms. Marshall pointed 
out that the dances are intended to be a 
‘Friday afternoon relaxing experience. 
People can just hang around, enjoy the mu­
sic, dance, and RELAX.”
Ms. Marshall took the job because she 
wanted to help people become more aware 
of the TGs “since, after all, the students 
pay for [the TGIF bands] with their ac­
tivities fees.” One of the major changes for 
next year, according to Ms. Marshall, will 
be an increase in the publicity for TGIFs.
On April 30, TGIF and the AB Concert 
Committee will join forces to put on a 
concert/dance titled, “Rites of Spring.” 
There will be one major band and two 
other bands.
Security Briefs
by Joan Konkle
An outbreak of robberies has been: 
reported by residents of E Tower in More- 
wood Gardens. Six thefts occurred in 
three days, with four in just one night, over 
the three week period before Spring Break.
According to Mike Corletti, Director of 
Security, the robber entered the rooms of 
sleeping students. He took only money 
from wallets, leaving easily portable, 
valuable items behind. The largest sum of 
money stolen from an individual was 
$10.
Though the thefts happened before 
Spring Break, Corletti pointed out that the 
robber may return. The thief was described 
as being about six feet tall, with short hair, 
and wearing an army fatigue jacket. 
Corletti urges all dorm residents, especially 
those in Morewood, to lock their doors 
before going to bed and immediately 
report the presence of suspicious-looking 
strangers to Security.
?
On March 25, at about 8 PM, a woman 
was assaulted while walking towards the 
back doors of Margaret Morrison, near the 
athletic stands. The assailant came up from 
behind, covered her mouth and told her 
that if she would remain quiet she would 
not be hurt. When the woman bit one of 
his fingers and screamed, he released her 
and ran off towards Forbes Avenue.
The attacker has been described as 
slightly built, and about five feet, eight 
inches tall. He was wearing a blue jacket 
and high black boots. According to 
Corletti, “This was only an assault, but it 
could have been much worse. Screaming 
won’t always work when you’re attacked, 
but it’s worth a try. The victim behaved 
very calmly and was fortunate.”
?
Security wants to remind bicycle 
owners that bicycle thefts are numerous at 
this time of year. Bicycles should always be 
locked, preferably with a kryptonite lock, 
which cannot be severed with a bolt cutter. 
These locks cost 515-20 and are available 
in the Bookstore.
Some of the more then 500 courses and workshops offered are:
? Workshop Courses for Educators: Life Crises Situations, Sexuality, etc.
? Women's Studies: The Psychology of Women, Women and the Law, etc. 
? Archeological Field Training at Meadowcroft Rockshelter 
? Short Session Courses: Accelerated Learning 
? Writing Workshop and Journalism Courses 
? Pre-medical and Pre-law Courses 
? Computer Programming
TUITION: $43 per credit for undergraduate Pennsylvania residents 
NO FORMAL APPLICATION NECESSARY
MAIL TO:
Office of Summer Sessions i NAME. 
158 Cathedral of Learning !
} Please send me your brochure on the 
J University of Pittsburgh Summer classes
University of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
! ADDRESS.
• School currently attending

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 11
New Entropy Boss
by Ellen Baker
Entropy, according to Webster, is “the 
ultimate state of inert uniformity”; but at 
CMU, Lynn Marstiller, currently one of 
Entropy’s purchasing agents and newly- 
appointed store manager for next year, 
plans to change and improve Entropy 
rather than let it drift into total inertia. 
Marstiller, an English major (creative 
writing) with a minor in business, will be 
Entropy’s first non-AMS manager.
Originally organized by an AMS student, 
Entropy continues the tradition of its dual 
purpose: a learning experience for manage­
ment students and a convenience for CMU 
students, faculty, and staff. But how well 
does Entropy provide for the needs of 
its customers?
Suggestion lists are posted in the store 
and customers are encouraged to offer 
constructive criticism. “We do use the 
suggestions if we can, ” explains Marstiller, 
“but we are quite limited in the changes 
that can be made.” A common complaint 
of Entropy customers is the limited variety 
of products. According to Marstiller, 
Entropy buys from only ten supply com­
panies. “We really can’t get a total
Lynn Marstiller, behind the counter at Entropy
variety of products or change the kinds of 
products we sell,” she says. “We have to 
accept the brands that those companies 
supply.”
Items that Entropy stocks include snacks, 
sodas, magazines, albums, school supplies, 
personal products, the daily and Sunday 
Pittsburgh Press, and the Sunday N.Y. 
Times and Washington Post. “I realize 
that Entropy trys to carry a little bit .of 
everything,” says one puzzled student, 
“but why, when the variety is so limited, 
do they waste money and space on items 
like Geritol?”
As a purchasing agent, Marstiller faces the 
periodic problem of fads. “At one time a 
health food and diet phase demanded Fem- 
Iron, vitamins, and yes, even Geritol. We 
reordered after selling the Geritol but the 
fad didn’t last long. Now the bottles are 
sitting there.” Maybe the fad will return.
Though the Entropy management 
attempts to keep costs down by limiting 
their supplies and, therefore, products, 
students still complain about over-pricing. 
“Some items, such as cookies, seem to cost 
one-and-a-half times as much as those in a 
regular supermarket,” complains a student. 
Ironically, Entropy does not have to worry 
about making much of a profit. “The turn­
over is sufficient,” says Marstiller. “We 
aren’t like any other store because all of 
our profits go back into the store. No one 
really makes money out of it. At the end 
of the year, remaining profits go into 
University accounting.” But the complaints 
of over-pricing continue.
Perhaps these complaints are not totally 
valid. Entropy products, according to
Marstiller, are already marked up 30% by 
the company when they arrive. Entropy 
then cuts that price down to a 20% mark­
up over the retail value. Entropy prices 
cannot be expected to correspond to chain 
supermarket (A&P, Kroger’s, etc.) prices; 
but they do seem to relate to prices in 
small convenience stores that are similar 
to Entropy, such as Stop-n-Go and Li’L 
General stores.'
The appearance of Entropy affects its 
customers almost as much as variety and 
prices. “I feel like I have claustrophobia 
when I go in there,” says one student. 
“Everything is so jammed.” Although 
Entropy needs room to expand, the possi­
bilities are not promising. “If we can’t' 
move,” says Marstiller, “we will take other 
measures.” While manager, she plans to 
remove the center counter “to reduce both 
clutter and shoplifting.” Marstiller also 
hopes to replace the carpeting and lights 
to improve the Entropy atmosphere.
In addition to cosmetic changes, 
Marstiller will be responsible for all other 
aspects of the store, including the hiring of 
employees. Entropy hires twelve students 
at salaries starting at $2.00 an hour, with 5 
cent raises every semester. Employment 
forms are now available at the Entropy 
register counter-next to the suggestion 
list.
SPIRIT
Continued from page 1
Student Senate for a $6,000 budget for 
next year. This is a significantly larger 
budget. According to Wilson, this past 
year’s allotment was insufficient to pay 
for the kind of high quality programs and 
distinguished speakers which Spirit strives 
to present, in their effort to further 
campus awareness of minority cultures.
Wilson expressed concern over a state­
ment attributed to him that was printed in 
the last TARTAN. It is completely false 
that he “does not think that Spirit mem­
bership should be extended to non-black 
minorities.” Rather, Barney feels that 
“Spirit membership is open to all minor­
ities, but that the proper time for a 
membership drive is not during an 
election.”
Following is a message from Kwasi 
Mensah, newly-elected Co-coordinator.
Dear Brothers and Sisters,
Spirit is an organization for people of 
color (Afro-American, Chinese, Arab, 
etc.) and it must be supported by the 
people of color on the Carnegie-Mellon 
University campus. All your ideas are 
welcome and will be considered by my­
self, Coordinator Barney Wilson, and the 
Spirit Advisory Board. The best way to 
help us and yourselves is to join the body 
and help it grow, physically and mentally. 
All you have to do is come to the Spirit 
Registration on April 29th at 4 PM. The 
membership fee is $1 per year. An addi­
tional donation of $.50 per month, to 
increase Spirit’s financial resources, would 
be greatly appreciated. If you fail to 
register on April 29, you can stop by the 
Spirit office, Skibo Room 40, between 
6-7:30 PM, and register then. There will 
also be a September membership drive. 
As-Salaam-Alikum 
(Peace be with you)
DON'T FORGET- 
SPRING CARNIVAL 
APRIL 21-23
FURNITURE OF PINE, POPLAR, AND 
MAPLE. By Franklin H.. Gottshall. 
Lavishly illus. with 25 Photos, 200 
detailed drawings. 35 of author's 
newest designs, carefully worked out 
for reproduction by anyone with 
moderate skill and modest wood­
working equipment. \
Pub. at $5.75 Only $3.98
MOUNTAINS. By J. Cleare. 250 Illus., 
50 in Full Color. A photojournalist with 
the 1972 International Expedition to 
Mt. Everest writes about the moun­
tains in mythology, in history, in 
religion, and in reality and supports his 
writing with a sensational colllction of 
photos and illus.
Pub. at $12.50 Only $6.98
THE WORK OF FRANK LLOYD 
WRIGHT. The Great Wendigen 
Edition. Introd. by Mrs. F. L. Wright. 
200 Photos, Drawings & Plans. 
Magnificent volume, mirror of the 
creative genius of the greatest ar­
chitect of our century with splendid 
reproductions of the originality and 
variety of his work.
Orig. Pub. at $42.50 New, complete 
ed. Only $14.98
THE MGM STOCK COMPANY: The 
Golden Era. By J. R. Parish & R. L. 
Bowers. Massive book packed full f 
thousands of cinematic facts. This 
lavishly illus. vol. is a cornucopia of 
film lore with carefully detailed 
biographies and career studies of the 
great MGM stars, film listings of over 
6,875 movies, salary statistics, con­
temporary reviews, etc. Incl. Fred 
Astaire, Lucille Ball, Clark Gable, 
Elizabeth Taylor, scores more.
Orig. Publ at $14.95 New, complete 
ed. Only $6.98
Leo Durocher: NICE GUYS FINISH 
LAST. 66 Photos. More than just a 
biography of one of the greatest men 
in baseball, this is probably the 
greatest baseball book of the century. 
Pub. at $10.95 Only $2.98
THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF JAZZ IN 
THE SIXTIES. By Leonard Feather. 
200 Photos. A complete survey of the 
entire field with 1100 biographies, over 
300 pages, uniform with the author's 
classic work THE NEW E N - 
CYCLOPDIA OF JAZZ.
Orig. Pub. New, complete
at $17.50 ed. Only $7.98
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF 
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. All that 
Shakespeare ever wrote-a fine, com­
plete edition (2 inches thick) following 
the arrangement of the First Folio of 
1623 with "Pericles'' the poems and 
sonnets appended. 1,100 Double- 
Column pages: ribbon bookmark.
Special Value $4.98
THE BOOK OF BRIDGES. By 
Hayden. The history, technology and 
romance of bridges an their builders. 
From man's first steps on a fallen log 
across a stream tothe soaring 
technological wonder of Sydney Har­
bor Bridge - the longest, the highest, 
the most disasterous, the most 
imaginative and the most beautiful 
bridges in the world - their complex 
structures, their breathtaking beauty, 
awesome size and the fascinating 
myths and stories associated with 
them.
Pub. at $12.50 Only $4.98
THE COLOR ENCYCLOPEDIA OF 
WORLD ART. By J. Jacobs. 256 Full 
Color Illus. Sumptuous, com­
prehensive and most useful, this 
luxurious vol. containing nearly 2400 
entries offers essential info, on pain­
ters, sculptors, arthitects and schools 
of art from prehistoric times to the 
present. Incl. the essence and spirit of 
the artist's work, his goals and in­
fluence on other artists, broad listing 
and description of styles, schools, and 
movements, a glossary of terms, 
more.
Pub. at $25.00 Only $12.98
Kurt Vonnegut's BREAKFAST OF 
CHAMPIONS. 8th Printing. Kilgore 
Trout, SciFi writer, tells Midland City 
Pontiac dealer Dwayne Hoover facts 
about Hoover's life that drive the Pon­
tiac dealer insane, only to be told him­
self that he is now forever free of the 
whims of his literary creator, Kurt Von- 
negut--on the occasion of the author's 
50th birthday!
Publ. at $7.95 Only $3.98
A NATURAL HISTORY OFOWLS. By 
Michael Everett. 40 full color, 130 
B&-W photos. Discusses origins, 
evolution, and habits and explains 
how, through specialized anatomy and 
highly developed skills, the ol has 
become the ultimate bird of prey. 
(8%"x11 %")
Special Value $8.98 
MAKING THINGS GROW OUT­
DOORS. By Thalassa Cruso, 14 full 
color, 104 B&W photos, plus 
diagrams. Advice on planning, plan­
ting and maintaining your garden from 
television's famous "Plant Lady" will 
prove a revelation and delight. Tackles 
the problems that confront every do-it- 
yourself gardener and cheers you on 
to horticultural triumphs.
Pub. at $7.95 Only $4.98
THE WORLD IN MY CAMERA. By 
Giselle Freund. Over 100 black and 
white photographs; 16 pages in color. 
One of the most celebrated photojour­
nalists of our time gives us a dual 
record of her life: a lavish collection of 
her famous photographs and a journal 
of her courageous existence.
Pub. at $15.00 Only $8.98
PORTRAIT OF A MARRIAGE. By 
Nigel Niholson. An absorbing, candid 
story of a remarkable marriage - that 
of Harold Nicholson, British writer and 
diplomat, and Vita Sackville-West, 
poet and artist. A document unique in 
the vast literature of love, as told by 
their son.
Pub. at $10.00 Only $3.98
CEZANNE AND HIS ART by Nicholas 
Wadley. Over 100 illus., 50 in Full 
Color. Cezanne set out on a laborious
& life-long analysis of color as a means 
of revealing the underlying structure of 
objects. His techniques developed Im­
pressionism to the point of being the 
link between the 19th & 20th cen­
turies, making Cezanne the founder of 
modem art & perhaps the greatest ar­
tist of the last 100 years.
Pub. at $17.50 Only $7.98
• emu bookstore •

---------------------------------------------------

Warm weather means sandals, T-shirts, and just 
sitting on the wall.
Warm Weather Hits CMU- 
StudentsHit theGreat Outdoors
now...
Now you can solve the problem and 
make some extra cash at the same time.
If you have any books, records, furniture, 
plants, skils ... whatever .. you can sign 
up for the flea market at the Skibo In­
formation Desk by April 26th. It's $5 for a 
half table and $10 for a full one.
The flea market will be held on Saturday, 
April 30th in the Skibo Parking Lot.
New Policy for State Grants
The Pennsylvania Higher Education 
Assistance Agency (PHEAA) has changed 
its position for those state grant applicants 
who are also receiving the benefit of 
Remission of Tuition. Under the new pol­
icy the Agency will require an adjustment 
to the state grant only where the total 
value of the Remission of Tuition, state 
grant, and other grants or scholarship aid 
which a student receives exceeds the edu­
cational cost budget. Therefore, the Finan­
cial Aid Office encourages all full-time 
Remission of Tuition recipients to file a 
state grant application for the 1977-78 
academic year. The filing deadline is^May 1 
1977. Applications may be obtained by 
contacting the Financial Aid Office on the 
second floor of Warner Hall.
Although the Financial Aid Office 
yw—
encourages all full-time Remission of 
Tuition applicants to file for a state grant, 
we are aware that at certain income levels, 
filing of the application would be futile. 
However, PHEAA has not finalized its need 
analysis formula for 1977-78 and they aré 
considering increasing the adjusted gross 
income limitation. As a guide for filing the 
state grant application, we would advise 
that any family with an adjusted gross 
income of less than $25,000 should apply 
If the adjusted gross income is above 
$25,000 we suggest applying if the family 
has other children enrolled in post-second­
ary institutions or the number of tax-
dependent children is greater than four.
Anyone having questions concerning the
filing of a state grant application should 
immediately contact the Financial Aid 
Office.
SUPA Survey
Continued from page 9
Juba, “looks long, but can be done by 
most people in less than ten minutes. 
Individual response is vital to the success 
of the study.”
Completion of the report is targeted 
for late June. Those who respond to 
the questionnaires will receive a study 
summary.
YOU CANT TAKE IT WITH YOU
It was just perfect for your 
room last September, but
All students, faculty and staff are 
welcome to participate.
Sponsored by the Student Government Corp. Cori»íatS¡!

---------------------------------------------------

amore
SPRING CARNIVAL RCA RECORD
JEFFERSON AIRPLANEFLIGHT LOG/1966-1976
2 RECORD SET
PyMi PPz^OPOE LEM©[LDE 
DANCE
IF THE SHOE FITS 
TWO LANE HIGHWAY
OGDdfif POP
THE IDIOT
PflJ&OMOl
QUEEN OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
LOW
HUNKY DORY 
YOUNG AMERICANS 
SPACE ODDITY 
ALADDIN SANE 
DIAMOND DOGS
THE RISE AND FALL OF ZIGGY STARDUST
FLIGHT LOG / 1S66 • 1376
THE WORST OF JEFFERSON AIRPLANE
DRAGONFLY
SPITFIRE
VOLUNTEERS
RED OCTUPUS
G=0Z^\D=D=
BIGGER THAN THE BOTH OF US
SINGLE ALBUMS 3.99
APRIL 20 • APRIL 29

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch N' Soda Presents
a musical trauestg
<-^ppril t5 jójdj9,2o,2ta2r234^^0^allr(iijin
at 8$0 iSfcup*
Ifickts m sdf ^^o|nfflnnaii0n5>£5k f^kr|hall £oH^, attk Ìuor

---------------------------------------------------

__________________ENTERTAINMENTAB PRESENTS PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUE
by Joan Konkle
Pure Prairie League, one of the nation’s 
foremost country-rock groups, will be play­
ing here Friday night. The band first a- 
chieved prominance with the success of the 
single Aimee, taken from their second al­
bum, Bustin’Out, in 1974.
The six member group was formed in 
1971. Their first drummer, Jim Caughlan, 
suggested the group’s unusual name. Pure 
Prairie League was the name of a women’s 
temperence union in the 1939 Errol Flynn 
film “Dodge City.” Because it was so off­
beat, the group decided to take it on, 
thinking that it would be a name people 
would remember.
And after Aimee and the band’s five 
highly praised albums, people are remem­
bering Pure Prairie League. The band’s 
first four albums, Pure Prairie League, 
Bustin' Out, Two Lane Highway, and If the 
Shoe Fits, have all sold several hundred 
thousand copies. Their current album 
Dance, is selling so well the group is hoping 
it will be their first gold album.
All six members of the group come 
from bluegrass country along the Ohio 
River, and their origins are always evident 
in their music. The group recently decid­
ed, though, to play more rock. As George 
Powell, co-founder of the band, put it, 
“We’re gonna get the song out there and 
put the hammer down. I think that’s what 
the audience wants, too.”
The band has been on tour since Janu­
ary. Last year, the band was on the road 
about 200 days. Bassist Michael Reilly 
characterized Pure Prairie League as “a 
working band. When we’re not on the road, 
we’re either in the studio or working
The band’s plans for the future include 
making Los Angeles their permanent home, 
since they record all their albums there at 
RCA. Musically, their next goal is to record 
a live album shortly, for release this sum­
mer. According to Reilly, “We’re always a 
little more reckless on stage than in the 
sterile atmosphere of the studio. We want 
to get some of the excitement of our con­
certs onto our records.”
CMU won’t have to wait for the album. 
The excitement and vitality of Pure Prairie 
League will be here this Friday at 8:00. 
AB will be presenting them as their Spring 
Carnival Concert in the Gym.
TURE PRÄRIE LEAGUE" TO APPEAR AT SPRING CARNIVAL
THE LATE SHOW:ENTERTAINMENTONLY
by Casey Childs
The Late Show is one of those sure-fire 
films that you’re not supposed to dislike. 
It has a built-in, ready-made audience appeal 
that’s guaranteed to smile back whether you 
are smiling or not. It offers a few laughs, 
some superficial suspense and a pseudo­
charm that glimmers like a neon sign 
expounding the message, “You’re going to 
love me, like it or not.”
In truth, the film is spineless. Very 
uneven tempos and no sense of rhythm pre-
man admits love to woman (big surprise!). 
We know they are in love by the way they 
are both waiting for the bus together as the 
credits roll by. They’re destined to live a life 
of eternal happiness.
Margo is everything Ira is not, or every­
thing anyone else is not, for that matter.1 
The character offers a little bit for anyone 
who’s paid the price of admission. She’s got 
to touch all the bases. Here we have an over- 
forty woman who bums incense, practices 
Yoga, downs cans of cola in one shot and 
manages West Coast entertainers. She is the
Macy, Eugene Roach and Joanna Cassidy)
with an exception of the indestructible
Roaeh, rarely rise above mediocrity. The
performances lack direction, lack focus, 
lack interplay. Everyone is left to their own
vices. They present their specialities and as
amiable as these specialties are, they do
nothing to heighten the impact of the film.
Benton is trying to direct with his writer’s
eye. He can’t seem to decide on a tone, a
always thought they helped in solving the 
case, pinning the rap and settling the beef. 
But there’s no sense of discovery here, no 
feeling of accomplishment on the audience’s 
part.
Benton tries to mix his comedy with sus­
pense, but this venture exceeds his gifts as 
a director. Few directors short of Hitchcock 
cam make you laugh while their pounding 
you to a pulp. There are a couple of sur-
vent it from looking like a well-made thriller, film’s resident eccentric, but the script only 
even for what it is. Given the material and supplies eccentricities for the sake of cute-
its obvious intentions the production could 
never be expected to rise above a grade-B 
murder-mystery at its best, or a tawdry 
crowd pleaser at its worst. It makes no pre­
tentions of being capable of elevating the 
film media into a higher order of art. It was 
made to be entertaining, not that this is 
unvirtuous.
But the qualm I have about entertain­
ing films of this nature is that they parade
ness. It’s not the stuff a solid character is 
made of. There is an empty, commercial 
method to Margo’s madness.
Art Camey and Lily Tomlin are not 
actors of great range, but they are capable 
enough to handle what this writer gives 
them to work with, which is precious 
little.
Writer/director Robert Benton was 
apparently trying to establish a colorful
their seal of approval with every line of rapport between the two, similar to that 
dialogue, with every delineation of character between such giants as Bogart and Bacall, 
or stroke of style. How can you argue with a But the Carney/Tomlin chemistry doesn’t 
60-year-old detective (played by the perse- work. The relationship never solidifies, 
vering Art Camey), with a bum leg and a their worlds don’t touch. This impasse is 
hearing aid, who does his own laundry while partly because each actor is too preoccupied 
his ulcer bleeds as he recites exhausting with keeping each of the character’s own 
diatribes on the butchery of medical practi- idiosyncracies. But the blame rests mainly 
tioners. If that’s not enough, he rides the with Benton, who is too preoccupied with 
bus, wears suits that look like he’s slept in coming up with witty dialogue, despite the 
them and lives alone in one room at a board- fact that it rarely evolves out of the charac- 
ding house for which he pays the rent by ters and their situations. Most of Tomlin’s 
the week. So much for subtleties of charac- lines could be farmed-out for use on the 
ter. nightclub circuit. The actors don’t stand a
The poor man’s name is Ira Wells. The chance, 
plights of his existence are carefully spelled Where was the director on this film? The 
out so that we might participate in the suf- talent is wasted on no-account material, 
fering. by counter’s name is Margo (played Benton allows Carney to sentimentalize 
by Lily Tomlin). The development of their on the character he is portraying and Tomlin 
relationship is routine, straight off the stu- is set loose on her own to scout out any 
dio’s shopworn stockpile: man meets woman, laugh she can find. There is no ensemble, 
man begins to begrudgingly tolerate woman, The rest of the supporting cast (Bill
style. His opening establishing shots, coupled 
with a foreboding soundtrack, smell a lot 
like Chinatown. We think we’re back in the 
1930’s. Much to our surprise, about ten 
minutes into the plot we find ourselves in 
the present day. This could be an admirable 
tonal device if Benton had the showmanship 
to make it work. But it never pays off.
The plot is as nebulous as the Bogart 
plots: lots of facts, lots of names and little 
time to paste them together. The old detec­
tive films worked because the audience
prises and a nicely edited car chase through 
suburbia, but they are usually undercut by 
predictable follow-ups or routine lines like 
“Sorry doll, I forgot to tell you that this is 
the hardest goddamn way to make a buck.” 
Despite the mood lighting and the 
shadows all over the interiors, this is by no 
means a well-made thriller. It tries too 
sweetly for acceptance and leaves its 
audience filled to^satiety in entertainment, 
but empty in thought and feeling of accom­
plishments.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - TARTAN - April 19, 1977
CITY PLAYERS ADJUST BEN JONSON
Volpone was adapted and directed by to watch and follow. City’s Volpone is not
by Carol Green
Ben Jonson was writing around the ear­
ly 1600’s, about the same time as Shake­
speare, and was just about as popular at 
the time. Jonson’s plays are not performed 
with as much frequency as Shakespeare’s 
are today, except within educational the­
atre. The performance of Volpone or The 
Fox by the City Players shows that Jonson 
can be performed successfully in theatri­
cal situations outside the educational 
realm.
For all those who have 
been seeking something 
to read since they 
finished The Lord of the 
Rings - a wondrous new
fantasy I
Magnificently illustrated by the 
Brothers Hildebrandt with 8 
black-and-white paintings and a 
full color fold-out center spread.
"The Sword of Shannara will 
be the biggest cult book since 
Tolkien .... Enough mystery, 
monsters, and plot twists to make 
any hard-core hobbit addict lose a 
weekend." — The Village Voice
• emu bookstore •
Steven Pearson. He made adustments to 
make the show more precise. A modern 
audience will not sit through a four or five 
hour play as the audiences at the time of 
Jonson would. The purpose was not to 
rewrite Jonson. In the process of econo­
mizing on time, some smaller characters are 
cut out in this adaptation. The text re­
mains vivacious, with the original intent 
and time period of the piece still intact. 
The time period embraces the viewer in­
stead of alienating him. Often in the the­
atre, time is dealt with as an obstacle and 
the audience is not made to feel comfor­
table with the time period
It is this embracing atmosphere of com­
fort that helps Volpone flow. It is simple
mindless in its simplicity, it is a refreshing 
starkness that comes from removing un­
necessary frills.
The actor’s actions are economical and 
very effective. This, combined with the 
spoken word, forms a stage picture that has 
depth and clarity.
timing and timing is where a lot of the
humor stems from.
Mosca (The Gadfly), Volpone’s servant,
is being played by Warren C. Bowels. The
subtlety which Warren injects the fly-
like nature of Mosca into his character,
without letting it take over, creates just the
right contrast between Mosca and Vol-
New bestseller
‘The complex woman who emerges has 
an inner beauty that pervades and irra­
diates this honest, intelligent, splendid 
book.” -Publishers Weekly
I liyUllmann 
(rangingE
• emu bookstore •
IAN SHCEIDERMAN IN CITY PLAYER’S “THE FOX”
Pearson has created a total piece of the­
atre. Nothing sticks out from the play, yet 
the play has variations. It builds, it rises 
and falls, it has tempos and rhythms which 
enthrall. It is not an easy assignment to do 
a play with as simple a plot as this one has.
Volpone is an older man who feigns 
terminal illness and possesses a great for­
tune. “Friends” appear out of nowhere, 
giving him riches to appease him in the 
hopes of inheriting his fortune when he 
dies.
Ian Schneiderman plays Volpone, (The 
Fox), with a touch of comedia Dell’arte He 
is carefully controlled. He has excellent
pone.
The costumes, by Jacqueline Durbin, 
are beautiful and clever. They quietly sug­
gested the names of the char?jters, such as 
Mosca, or the fly. The setting,by Frederick 
Chuang, was designed refreshingly enough, 
for the play and for the actors, not only 
for the purpose of his portfolio. Lighting 
by Dan Rist might have been simpler and 
less colorful, but that was no serious fault.
It would take more than a minor pro­
blem to mar Volpone for it is a strong, 
tight show. The City Players have shown 
what life Ben Jonson can have when done 
well.
FOOD SERVICE
THE KILTIE COFFEE HOUSE BAKERY-DELI
OPEN EVENINGS
7:00 P.M----12 MIDNIGHT
During Spring Carnival:
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 17
6rhecBookworin
1823 MURRAY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15217 
412 - 521-1151
USED BOOK HEADQUARTERS
I >I ^We have a few openings, 
fljl in the vineyard. Come laborwith us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we 1' promise is the opportunityto help others and a quiet pride in your work A few people will even thank you 
One will be eternally x grateful His name is God.
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, 
contact: Father O’Toole, Pittsburgh Diocese,
111 Blvd. of the Allies, 15222 or call 412-456-3070.
RANDELL HAYNES AND j.CHRISTOPHER O’CONNOR IN “KILLING GAME”
"THEATRE EXPRESS' CONTINUES TO GROW
by Casey Childs
Leaving the secure walls of a structured 
university program to join a group of actors
in formulating a self-sufficient touring com­
pany would seem, at first, to be a foolhardy 
act. There is an obvious risk involved on 
everyone’s part. Would such a company sup- 
^ port itself? Where would funds come
in constructing a forum in which they could 
test and refine their skills in all areas of the 
theatre.
The ensemble was conceived by a group 
of recent Carnegie-Mellon University alumni. 
The four founders, Caren Harder, Randell 
Haynes, Ken Kuta and William Turner 
stated pooling their resources and putting
contrasting selection.
Thirteen members make up the company. 
They include Caren Harder, Jed Harris, 
William Turner, Randy Kovitz, Tawny a 
Pettiford, Judith Goldman, Susan Cash, 
Randell Haynes, J. Christopher O’Connor 
Shelly Crandall, James Edmondson, and 
Rich Lenchner. The majority of them are 
Carnegie-Mellon alumni or CMU students on 
a leave of absence.
Their work takes them to numerous col­
leges and art centers. During the past seven 
months, they have performed in over twelve 
states from Iowa to Georgia to Wisconsin. 
They usually spend from three to four days 
at each college. The company members 
instruct classes at the schools in improvisa­
tion, mime, yoga and various other skills.
Financially, Theatre Express becomes more 
stable by the day. Support funds are con­
stantly growing. They continue to operate 
through grants given to them by such com-
self. So often the original intentions slip into 
a slick, glossy technique or shortcuts begin 
to develop. A true test of skill is the ability 
to sustain a production’s energy from per­
formance to performance. Theatre Express 
continually galvanizes its energy by always 
trying out new things. “Some of the shows 
have changed 500% over the month,” con­
tinues Ms. Harder. The productions are in 
a constant maturing process, becoming 
richer through growth.
Theatre Express performed on the Came- 
gie-Mellon campus last fall and they are re­
turning to Pittsburgh for another run from 
April 17 to May 3. Chatham College Theatre 
will house their productions of Woyzeck, 
directed by Rina Yerushalmi, Cat’s Cradle, 
directed by Ken Kuta, Killing Game, direc­
ted by William Turner and a new mime
RANDY KOVITZ AND SUSAN CASH IN A SCENE FROM “CATS, CRADLE”
Could they survive in creating their own together ideas back in 1975. Exactly a year 
business network? later, Theatre Express germinated from just
These were the doubts facing the young a concept in a few practical and artistic 
members of the Theatre Express when they imaginations into a sound and expanding 
assembled in September of 1976. These ac- theatrical reality.
. tors, designers and directors joined forces Theatre Express recognized that there was
an audience for a company of their kind, 
and they proceeded from there to satisfy 
them. Caren Harder, the company’s general 
manager and a CMU alumni of ‘75, argues 
that “there is a great void in American Thea­
tre outside of New York City, and the pub­
lic is eager to discover the thrill of watching
the masterful actors onstage.” Thus, the com- SHELLY CRANDALL AND RANDY KOVITZ IN A SCENE FROM"WOYZECK"
pany serves a manifold purpose. Not only panies as United States Steel and Mellon play called Mimelite that will be replacing
do they provide a fertile ground for well- Bank. Because of its small scale, Theatre Tuesday.
trained but not fully tested talent to re- Express is a bargain that most colleges can Chatham College Theatre is part of the
fine their skills, but they also assist in the afford; production costs are kept to a mini- Ubrary Complex of Chatham’s campus. The 
preservation of live and quality repertory mum for this reason. The average New York schedule is as follows: Cat’s Cradle will be 
theatre^in the United States. road show costs between six and seven performed on the evenings of April 17, 22,
Few, if any, American companies attempt thousand dollars for a one night stand which 26, 30 and May 2. Woyzeck is scheduled 
the wide variety of dramaturgy Theatre is much more than Theatre Express runs, for the evenings of April 18, 23, 27, 29 and 
Express chooses to encounter. This season “The Company gets along fine when the May 3. Killing Game occupies the stage on 
their bill of fare included George Buchner’s work is going well,” reports Caren Harder, April 20 and 25. Mimelite is set for April
expressionistic masterpiece Woyzeck,Bruce “only occasionally do technical problems on 19, 24 and May 1. All performances begin at
Pribram’s adaptation of Vonnegut’s absurd- the road create tension. The Company takes 8:00 p.m. For tickets and information call
fantasy, Cat’s Cradle, Eugene Ionesco’s black their work very seriously.” 731-0285.
farce, Killing Game, and a mime show Maintaining a touring show is an art in it- 
created by Jewel Walker entitled Tuesday.
Need it be said that versatility is a manda­
tory attribute necessary to approach such a

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - April 19, 1977
CARTER'S : "IUST A STONE'S THROW AWAY
//
"Just A Stone's Throw Away"
A Record Review 
by David Lucas
It might be presumptious to assume 
that Valerie Carter, whose very impressive 
album, Just A Stone’s Throw Away, is 
being groomed to inherit the nymphet/ 
torch-songstress title from Linda Ronstadt. 
But her voice posses both the innocent 
nubility and the warm, womanly maturity 
that the title demands. In her album jacket 
pictures she does look like a little girl 
dressing up in Mommy’s bonnet and chin­
chilla. Besides, how long can the 30year 
old Ronstadt sustain her youthful facade?
Just a Stone’s Throw Away contains a 
well-chosen assortment of tunes, and 
features musicians from the jazz group 
Karma, Earth Wind & Fine and Little Feat. 
Background vocals are provided by Maurice 
White of Earth Wind & Fire, Deniece 
Williams, Lowell George of Little Feat and 
Linda Ronstadt. Valerie Carter’s own voice 
is quite worthy of the dignified company.
The album begins with a remake of the
Stairsteps’ soulful Ooh, Child. The new 
version benefits from a quieter arrange­
ment by Little Feat’s Bill Payne and the 
sweet vocal combination of Carter on lead 
and Deniece Williams singing background.
Earth Wind & Fire provide a bouncy 
background on the Skip Scarborough tune 
So, So, Happy. The tune begins with tinkly 
piano and murmurring voices, then jumps 
into joyous, brass spiked rhythm. The 
contrast between Jerry Peters' spirited 
instrumental arrangement and Carter's 
somewhat restrained vocals are very 
pleasant. Williams, an EW&F protege, lends 
a nice babyish backup. Another tune, 
City Lights, doesn’t work as well. It is 
second-rate Earth Wind & Fire. While the 
group can pull of whispered, unintelligible 
lyrics and a droning dance beat, Carter 
doesn’t seem to have that power. Maurice 
White’s screams, sassy brass and an “acid 
soul” guitar help to make the tune some­
what listenable.
Ringing Doorbells in the Rain is a short, 
gentle tune with reggae-like percussion. 
Here, most notably, her voice displays a 
combination of youthful sweetness and 
maturity.
Carter sings powerfully over an elegant
background of piano and strings on Heart­
aches. The song, arranged by David 
Campbell, is sparingly interspersed with 
beautiful harmonics.
Face of Appalachia is a haunting country 
tune. Banjo, mandolin and guitars form a 
crisp, distinct background for the lovely 
harmonics of the Lowell George-John 
Sebastian song.
Little Feat nearly dominates .4 Stone’s 
Throw Away. The arrangement of sus­
tained organ and slide guitar notes and 
gospelly baritone voices are distinctly 
Little Feat, but Carter does well vocalizing 
over the group’s supurb music. The vocal 
effects are similar to Ronstadt’s If You 
Love Me Let Me Know in that they offset a 
strong female voice against solid baritones.
Cowboy Angel is slow, and romantic, 
interspersed with airy background vocals 
and the obligatory harmonica. Carter 
affects a convincing twang, and her voice 
is at her best, with a clear strong sensuous­
ness and an even vibrato.
Perhaps the best song on the album is 
Back to Blue Some More, a masterpiece of 
melancholia. It accurately conveys the 
beauty of the dark and scary mood. The. 
lyrics are simple, yet poetic: “Parked 
outside is my blue coupe/ Interstate 58 
late two-tone tired and dirty/ I'll be listen­
ing to the juke box watching nite turn to 
day/ The lights outside the truckstop of 
this lonely cafe/ And up above the door/ 
A neon sign keeps flashin/ Blue to red, red 
to green/ And back to blue some more.” 
The convoluted instrumental mix of 
wailing sax, concert piano, electric piano 
and cymbals are sophistocated jazz. The 
fade outs leave you aching for more. Carter 
co-wrote the tune with Lowell George and 
Bill Payne.
In Just a Stone’s Throw Away Valerie 
Carter seems to be tugging at the apron 
strings of various producers. She really 
hasn’t developed a personal style as has 
songstress Ronstadt. Nonetheless, the 
album is an excellent mix of styles and 
moods* Few'records released this year have 
surpassed it in technical quality or in sheer 
listening pleasure.

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 19
COMING
ALUMNI HALL
APRIL 29 - 8:30 P.M.
"KETCHUP ON 
THETRACKS" 
"INVENTORY" 
"IN FOURTHS"
HIRSHFIELD, RICHMOND. 
KUKLA, LENKER
SHERLOCK HOLMES GETS LOST IN FOG
by Joan Livitski
The aunthenticated Londonderry fog 
floating over the stage at the rising of the 
curtain gives the illusion that one will 
experience the reality of the time and place 
of the play. But it will take more than a 
super sleuth to get through the haze of 
Sherlock Holmes now playing at Heinz 
Hall. The hang-over of the fog from the 
opening interlude into the first scene’s 
setting of a drawing room foreshadows 
how the rest of the play will proceed, 
clouded.
The director, Tony Tanner, couldn’t 
seem to decide on the tone of the play. 
It appears as though Mr. Tanner was striv­
ing towards a comedy using stereotypes. 
y Though the script contains many comic 
lines, delivered drably they aren’t capital­
ized on, so go unrecognized by the audi­
ence. Lack of the suspense and intrigue 
expected from a detective story, results 
mainly from this production’s unbeliev- 
ability. More like caricatures, the actors 
come off flat and shallow. I searched 
for one well-rounded character in order to 
X make the play seem real and came up with
$ Dr. Watson, played by Richard Lupino,
who comes closest to meeting the criteria. 
Yet he doesn’t enter until late in the first 
act and then only to play a minor part. 
Sherlock Holmes (John Michalski) and 
Alice Faulkner (Allison Moore), the damsel 
in distress, are mere like Dudley Do-right 
and Polly Pureheart, melodrama and all, 
5 rather than people I want to get to know.
The set looks as though it were taken 
out of a chintzy Batman and Robin show. 
Even the dialogue supports this with lines 
nearing a quality of “Gee, golly whiz, 
Sherlock!” and “Holy magnifying glass!”
I was waiting for “Zap! Pow! and Zowie!” 
to be flashed on the stage.
The Good Guy/Bad Guy conflict is 
symbolically carried through, yet not in an 
interesting, new, innovative way. Not only 
are Holmes and Watson better looking than 
the villians but costume-wise, dressed in 
brown and tweed well-tailored suits, the 
“Good Guys” appear dignified, almost 
aristocratic. In contrast, Moriarty and his 
men, like outlaws in an old western, wear 
black suits.
Coming off as too choreographed, 
nearly all the action looks to be a pat 
routine, unnatural, Sherlock is too stiff. 
His voice keeps at the same monotone 
throughout the play and his character 
comes accross as too perfect, too logical.
He’s another Mr. Spock without the in­
trigue. The sixth sense quality given 
Holmes is carried to a great extreme. The 
lines repeat and state the obvious making 
the dialogue boring. And, whereas, having 
Holmes open a door just as someone is 
about to enter but before they’ve knocked, 
may be acceptable if used sparingly, 
but when coupled by outrageous incidents like 
passing an unopened letter across his 
forehead and knowing what’s in it or 
being able to tell Watson at a quick glance 
that he’s put on 1 Vi pounds, is going a bit 
too far. His keen observation gets to be 
a little too precise, a little too corny. Even 
Sherlock’s name is given an ominous aura.
Whenever an evil doer mentions it, poses 
are frozen and I expect to hear a harsh 
organ chord banged out. Watson sums up 
Holmes best when he says “ If you lived a 
few centuries earlier, they would have 
burned you alive.”
What’s distracting in most of the sets is 
that they are kept fairly realistic. If a sym­
bolic interpretation is going to be taken, 
it should be carried all the way through in 
order to be effective. The realistic and de­
tailed touches not only do not fit, but 
they detract from the stylized quality used 
elsewhere.
The most admirable aspect was the 
nearly instantaneous scene changes. 
Effective use of scrim and the fog were 
made to create interludes between the 
scenes. Too bad the same quick pace 
couldn’t have been kept up through the 
performance.
NOW IN PAPERBACK-
“One of the most important books 
published in our American times.”*
Simple Justice
Wby RICHARD KLUGER
The history of Brown v. Board of Educa­tion, the epochal Supreme Court decision 
that outlawed segregation, and of black 
America's century-long struggle for 
equality under law.
• emu bookstore •
KURT KASZNAR IN A SCENE FROM “SHERLOCK HOLMES”
Wherrett Room,Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
Film times:11=30 & 12-30
APR 19 Generation for Generation 
26 The Long Childhood

---------------------------------------------------

IHCGRil*
IS NOW ON SALE AT:CMU Bookstore Entropy Skibo Baker HallListening Post (Shadyside) Pitt Bookstore
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY April 20th
Triple Decker, Fries 
Medium Soft Drink.........
THURSDAY April 21st
Wafer Steak, Fries, 
Medium Soft Drink . . .
FRIDAY April 22nd
Grilled Cheese, Medium Soft Drink
MONDAY April 25th
Two Hot Dogs, Medium Soft Drink
TUESDAY April 26th
Fjsh n Chips, Medium Soft Drink
All remaining yearbook payments will be 
collected at Skibo Information Desk this week 
(April 79-22), The amount due is $5.00. The 
Thistle will be on sale for those who have not 
purchased theirs. Seniors $9.00. All others 
$10.00. (No deposits accepted) Any deposits 
not paid in full will be forfeited.
The 1977 issue of

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
SPRING CARAj/\/AL ... 
Start on Booth...... To SEE TvIE Resül-T aç
HARP UJORK <N THE FORM OF
A TROPHrl...
Art tGal 9aAe ry ’oc9a.WHERE ELSE CAM 60MEONE-
Elioot Be Ohliertl and
When “?x:FjtlS k “n¡¡
f-Qc.q-0P G-kL aaaa
915 Brinton Road 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15221 
Telephone (412) 247-2760
Special discounted room rates for 
CMU Graduates' Guest —$32.00 flat 
rate $26.00
THEATRE
McKeesport Little Theater concludes its
16th Season with the musical WHERE'S 
CHARLEY. Performances are scheduled 
every Friday and Saturday at 8:30 PM with 
Sunday performances at 7:30 PM begin- 
ing Friday, April 22, and running every 
weekend through May 15. For reser­
vation, please call 673—1100.
MUSIC
The Point Park College'Singers will pre­
sent tneir Spring Concert Wednesday, 
April 20 at 7:30 PM in the college student 
lounge. The event is free and open to the 
public.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY "POPS"
concerts April 22, 24 and 25 highlight 
tunes by an unforge .table American com­
poser of popular music in "An Evening 
of Cole Porter." Programs Friday and Sun­
day at 8 PM and Monday at 7:30 PM 
feature assistant conductor Thomas 
Michalak plus soloists Marianna Christos,
soprano; Dean Rhodus, tenor; Theodor 
Uppman, baritone, and the Mendelssohn 
Choir in a medley of Cole Porter tunes.
Although the "Pops" series is sold-out 
to series subscribers for the fourth con­
secutive, season, tickets are often returned 
to the box office for resale. For ticket 
information phone (412) 281-5000.
Trumpet artist HARRY JAMES and his
Swinging Band make a rare appearance 
here on April 27 at 8 PM., sharing the 
pops event with WOODY HERMAN'S 
THUNDERING HERD. The trumpet star 
enhances Heinz Hall's "Cavalcade of Great 
Bands.''
The "Cavalcade" continues in May with 
two more band concerts featuring the most 
danceable, singable music of the 30's, 40's 
and 50's. GUY LOMBARDO and his 
Royal Canadians make a return visit on 
May 12 at 8 PM to the joy of his many 
fans who missed his sold-out concert in 
Heinz Hall last December.
Tickets for each event are on sale at 
the Heinz Hall box office and ticket 
counters in Kaufmann's, Horne's, Gimbels, 
Sears and National Record Marts. For 
group discount rates, phone Mrs. Kathy 
Meyer at (412) 281-8185.
ART
Beginning on April 16 and continuing
through April 30, KINGPITCHER GAL­
LERY will present an exhibition of paint­
ings by HENRY KOERNER. '
Robert Little will discuss ways that prints
can be made from natural objects at 3:00 
on Sunday, April 24, at the Arts and Crafts 
Center at Fifth and Shady Avenues. The 
event is sponsored by the Pittsburgh Print 
Group.
Robert Little is a well-known naturalist, 
artist, and teacher. He has exhibited locally 
at the Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation and the Three Rivers Arts Festi­
val, as well as several one-man shows.
The author of the book, Nature Printing, 
Robert. Little was one of two American 
artists included in a volume of 152 works 
of selected Gyotaku (nature prints) pub­
lished in Tokyo.MISC.
AN EVENING WITH IRV WEINER,
a solo performance featuring sleight-of-
hand artistry, extrasensory perception and 
predictions of the future, will be presented 
at Duquesne University Thrusday, April 21 
at 8 PM in the Union Ballroom. The show, 
sponsored by the Union Program Board, is 
free and open to the public.
The International Poetry Forum will
present NANA MOUSKOURI and the 
Olympians on Friday, April 22, at 8:00 PM 
in Carnegie Music Hall. This will be Miss 
Mouskouri's fourth appearance at the 
Music Hall for the Poetry Forum. Born in 
Athens, Greece, she began her musical 
studies at the Conservatory in Athens in 
1951. After studying classical music for 
eight years she became interested in jazz. 
In 1963 Miss Mouskouri left Greece to 
make a stage and recording career centered 
in France. She became known in the 
United States when HARRY BELAFONTE 
asked her to tour with him.
Tickets are available at Kaufmann's, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union and the 
Poetry Forum office in Carnegie Library, 
Oakland. Tickets are $9.00, $7.50 and 
$4.50. Season subscribers are entitled to 
a 25% discount on one ticket. For more 
information, call 621—9893.
Be>Q\J<cr bï Bruce Juachman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22- TARTAN - April 19, 1977
AIRPORT'77: WORST IN SERIES OF THREE
by Jeanne Kravanja
When a sequel fails to live up to the 
movie it is based on, the second attempt 
can be looked on as simply misguided. 
However, when filmmakers persist in 
producing a series of disappointing follow 
ups, their actions must be considered an 
exploitation.
Such is the argument against the makers 
of Airport. The popularity of the first 
movie undoubtedly warranted the making 
of a second. Unfortunately, the resulting 
joke, entitled Airport 75, was more of a 
parody than an extension of its namesake. 
Even though it was a qualitative bomb, its 
box office success was enough to prompt 
the making of still another in the series. 
The latest film, Airport ’77, is not as 
unintentionally funny as its predecessor. 
Rather, its main flaw is in its predictabi­
lity, a result of using the same basic fromat 
once too often.
A certain image has become associated 
with any movie called Airport, and those 
responsible seem to fear the consequences 
of tampering with this look. Their reluc­
tance to try anything different makes each 
new_film more of a revised copy of the old, 
causing the repeated characters and sub­
plots to seem hackneyed.
The characters are, in fact, good examples 
of just how stagnant the series has become. 
Aside from changed names and faces, the 
passengers have remained basically the 
same in all three films. Jack Lemmon 
is simply the ’77 version of Dean Martin 
and Charlton Heston. He is the older 
pilot in love with a younger woman. 
Brenda Vaccaro is the ’77 version of 
Jacqueline Bisset and Karen Black. A blind 
piano player has been substituted for Helen
Reddy’s guitar strumming nun and in the 
same manner, new actors have been 
brought in to fill the quota of 
endangered children and VIP’s on board.
The dilemma these passengers in Airport 
’77 face is the result of an attempted art 
theft. A plane full of expensive paintings is 
headed for a museum opening in Florida. 
The villains plan to fly low under radar as
beneath it.
The fight for survival is on. If one is 
familiar with the calculated and melo­
dramatic Airport game plan, the fate of 
each passenger can be determined by using 
simple logic: If the blind piano player dies, 
both small children must be rescued; if the 
piano player lives, one child and one airline 
VIP are expendable. Of course the cardinal
they enter the Bermuda Triangle. Once off 
the screens, they expect to be counted as 
just another mysterious disappearance in 
that area. All is going well for them until, 
as the prophetic music forewarns, they hit 
something above the water. Unable to 
regain altitude the plane ditches, not just 
onto the water’s surface, but it sinks
rule of this survival game is that Ms. 
Vaccaro has the unbeatable odds. After all, 
what true melodrama could resist ending 
with the hero rescuing his girl and carrying 
her off in his arms?
In addition to its contrived sentimental­
ity, Airport ’77 looks to be superficial.
Introductions of the main characters are 
rushed over, if they are given at all. Even 
the bona fide movie stars, who get a few 
more minutes on camera than their TV 
counterparts, are given only enough back­
ground to enable the audience to label 
them “good guy” or “bad guy.”
This general lack of concern with the 
characters only goes to show that the real 
star of the movie is not meant to be any­
one in the cast, but rather the special 
effects man. Crashing waves and other 
effects are reminiscent of Irwin Allen. 
Likewise the plane’s interior has been 
decorated in such a comfortable style that 
it is a shame to see the water destroy it. 
Definitely no secret is made of the fact 
that it is a big budget all the way, from the 
costumes by Edith Head to the appearance 
of U.S. Navy vessels with their mass of 
rescue equipment.
Extravagant disaster films are not as novel 
as they may have been when the original 
Airport was made. However, what started 
as a commendable adaption of Arthur 
Haley’s novel has degressed into a watery 
sentimentality, leaving just enough gore 
and violence to assure the audience the 
movie is not something they could see on 
their television sets. It surpasses predict­
ability and, given time, it reaches absolute 
boredom.
Perhaps it wouldn’t be too unreasonable 
to think the people involved with Airport 
could channel their energies into something 
more creative than a biennial recycling of 
the same old material. However, with an 
audience willing to accept their present 
efforts and a fortune to be made from 
continuing the farce, what incentive do 
they have to try anything better?
MliiiiiiiMimiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifliiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiliililllllllliiiiiiliiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfllllllllllllllllllllllllllitllllllllllllllllllllllll.....IIIIIIIIIIIU 1111111111
TGIFTGIF
TGIF KICKS OFF SPRING CARNIVAL '77 THURSDAY.
Biol »the FAMILY OF EVE"
STARTING AT 5:00 ON THE MIDWAY
And then April 29th
"THE RITES OF SPRING" fVic 
"CHRISTOPHER'S RYE" and "BOB McKEAG AND FUN"
SKIBO BALLROOM 8-12 
FREE ADMISSION
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES Fti
TGIFTGIF

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 23
Dcn't Touch That Dial !
A VIDE© SHOW
with
Robert Klein NFL Football Follies Reefer Madness Stevie Wonder
atTHE SKIBO LOBBY
Tues.19 thru Sat. 23
run continuously from 
9;00am till 12:00midnight
AB
Special Event

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Carnegie-Mellon University
It's Class Ring Urne
Day: Apr. 21 Thurs. 
Time: 10:00-4:00
Place: BOOKSTORE
Please bring advance 
deposit of $10.00
Buggy Design
by Ray Sevigny
Design is perhaps the most important 
aspect of sweepstakes. The buggies of 
1920 were virtually “rolling crates.” 
By the late 20’s the buggies resembled 
race cars. It was in the early 30’s that 
Beta Theta Pi introduced a wooden frame 
buggy covered with airplane silk, placing 
emphasis on light buggies, with minimal 
consideration given to aerodynamics. In 
1937, the designs included three-wheeled 
buggies and drivers in the “prone’’position. 
After the war, technology played a large 
role: Pi Kappa Alpha’s “torpedo-on-
wheels,” constructed of fiberglass over a 
steel frame, set a precedent in buggy design 
and Phi Kap brought out the first unibody 
construction in 1949.
Today, the important criteria in evaluat­
ing a buggy is in all of the individual 
aspects of engineering and human inter­
faces and their composition into one enti­
ty. The ideal of this entity is to possess 
qualitites of “weightlessness,” “wind resis- 
tancelessness,” and “surface frictionless- 
ness.” The refinement of these aspects oc­
curs through the learning experience of 
developing an idea into reality. By means 
of calculations, experimentations, successes, 
and failures, it becomes a direct applica­
tion of classroom skills. The results of 
these refinements have produced the finest 
buggies in concept, functionality, and 
craftmanship ever to be attained in the 
history of buggy. But design is a conti­
nuous process, and with the advance of 
new technologies, the evolution of buggy 
designs has no limit.
Class Ring Ordering 
Information
SWEEPSTAKESPKA, BTP, SN Repeat 
CIA Ready for Upset
by the Compubookie smelling. Care to take a ride from my air­
port?
Note: The Compubookie is a little green 
gnome who lives under Panther Hollow 
Bridge and who comes out once a year to 
make comments and predictions on the 
buggy races.
Yes, once again I return, buggy nurds, with 
only the finest in pragmatic prognostica­
tions to deal upon you. As you might 
recall I had a whale of a time last year 
picking the order of finish and as a result
I have just recuperated in time for this 
year’s predictions. Due to the late start 
of the races coupled with the late date of 
carnival I will predict that the race record 
of 2:19.3 will be bettered this year and 
probably by more than one of the top 
six finishes.
Alpha Tau Omega—With most their 
brothers venturing into more virgin fields, 
the Z-men of ATO have intended to 
“imp”ort a few. On a more serious note we 
see the ATO’s trying to dispute their long- 
proven axiom—heavier objects do roll 
faster than light ones. Listen for those 
hissing wheels on Friday and take note 
of their time—it should be a shock.
Sigma Nu—The zoo will eliminate hill 3 
in pipe-dreams and a cry once again will 
arise “If only we had a push team” (or 
the Butcher’s tune “Whatever happened 
to B. Brown?”)
Beta Theta Pi—The Be,tas bring back the 
world’s foremost superhuman, Lew Larson. 
Ah, who can defeat the greatest push team 
every assembled—Who hasn’t?!? The Betas 
will have to hope that their jets are strong 
enough to overcome the deep water they 
are treading. If only they were like fish. 
Maybe you won’t have to write them off— 
they have a Bic—click! (Seriously, one vic­
tory in the past 10 years tells the Beta 
story.)
Phi Kappa Theta—With a “Uni”verse 
of talent to draw from Phi Kap once again 
will race the sweetest looking (and smelling) 
buggies on campus. As a matter of fact the 
wimpy pushers are sweet looking and
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—SAE won a trophy 
for their sweepstakes booth last year. It 
may not win a race but it sure looks good. 
The SAE’s are going to pull a shift(y) and 
try a Kong like effort to pull this one out. 
Who knows? After all this year’s races are 
a brand new ballgame.
Kappa Sigma—KS is still trying to be a 
fraternity—this includes entering sweeps­
takes -losing miserably- and celebrating 
their fine loss with their “little sisters.” 
Seriously, they‘ve stolen most of their 
ideas from Phi Kap-why don’t they either 
perfect them or steal some worthwhile 
ideas.
C. I. A.—The battle cry remains Harry Ho! 
As CIA combines forces spiritually with 
TX. They will roll—they have a push team. 
This is the 5-star A 1 pick to choke this 
year even though they have an Italian 
Stallion of their own.. .But they could do 
it all. . .even win.
Pi Kappa Alpha—As we slam the hams and 
cross the varied pedlers of life some strange 
vision must stain even the shiniest of 
hustling harps in an attempt to reach that 
denovo of success—a third consecutive win 
for the brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha. The 
chance of this dark occurence is zero. 
Rather one could expect a plague of botu­
lism. Someone had better beat them out­
right or the cry of the warring weemen will 
be Dick-me.
Fringe—A certain genie has told us.. .we 
might win. To interpret this we can only 
say that if they would spend less time in 
the gym playing frisbee with Mickey Mouse 
shirts on, they might improve on their 11th 
place standing.
As for the others. . . Dream about it!!!
Perfect Picks:
1. Pi Kappa Alpha A
2. Beta Theta Pi
3. CIA
4. Sigma Nu
5. Pi Kappj Alpha B
6. Phi Kappa Theta

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 25
Concrete Canoe Sweep All Races
 m« • ¦ P.rftHit must on tn mpmKprs nf
Women Netters Win
by Mary Weeks
Before the recent April 1 concrete canoe 
race in Charlotte, North Carolina, CMU was 
virtually unknown to the 15(?) major 
schools attending the event. However, when 
it came time to race, the muffled comments 
such as “they’re from Camegie-what? 
University,” soon gave way to cries of 
“Yankee go home” when we proved the 
excellence of our team by sweeping all four 
of our races. CMU defeated teams from 
Florida, Alabama, S. Carolina State, and the 
University of North Carolina (the sponsoring 
school) in men’s, women’s and faculty races.
John Ford and Tony DiGioia took first 
place in the 100-yard sprint. Ford teamed 
again with Stan Diamond to defeat the 
competition by 5 seconds in the slalom race. 
Lynn Ritter, Audrey Goldstein, Kim McCalla, 
and Judy Parker raced in 2 canoes and tied 
for first place in the women’s race. The final 
CMU victory was the faculty race, in which 
Red Whittaker and A1 Dunlap made the best 
time in any division.
Jim Puder and Stan Diamond have indeed 
begun to reap the benefits of their ’77 Canoe 
Organization. The rigorous training and 
simulated races at Panther Hollow Pond have 
certainly paid off thus far. However, the 
actual race victories are not the only accom­
plishments which CMU should be proud of. 
The CMU concrete canoe team won an 
impressive second place in design and cons­
truction at the Charlotte race. Well-deserved
Track Splits
by Jack Daly
In its first week of competition, the Car- 
negie-Mellon track team split a pair of 
meets, defeating Bethany 88-56 on Sat­
urday after dropping the opener to Hiram 
83-62. The Tartans' victory at Bethany 
was sparked by improved performances in 
nearly every event.
Standouts for Tech in both meets were 
triple jumper Rich Mengato, hurdler Ed 
O’Brien, three-miler Steve Faloon, and 
pole vaulter Palumbo. Half-milers Gordon 
and Klaiber paced each other to 1-2 
finisher in both contests. Freshman high- 
jumper Matt Wehrle lofted himself over 
6’4” in the Bethany meet, an inch higher 
than his earlier effort.
C-MU faces a rugged week of competi­
tion as the team travels to Case-Western 
on Wednesday and hosts John Carroll on 
Saturday in their only home meet of the 
season. The races begin at 1:00 on the
SOFTBALL TEAM 
WINS BIG
by Gordon Morrison
The C-MU Women’s softball team won 
their first game of the season by beating 
Chatham 40-7. The C-MU team created 
numerous scoring opportunities by their 
stolen bases. The Chatham catcher was un­
able to throw any of the C-MU runners 
out. The Chatham catcher got so frus­
trated, she did not even see Joan Jawelak 
when she stole home. Chatham could not 
steal against the fast pitching of Nancy 
Seus and the strong throws of catcher Pat 
Yost. The C-MU team is preparing for a 
fast pitch softball tournament at Robert 
Morris on Saturday.
credit must go to the members of the Orga­
nization who spent two tedious months pre­
paring the canoe. Preparation entailed refur­
bishing last year’s mold, designing a light­
weight concrete mix to provide added 
strength and flexibility, and placing and 
finishing the actual canoe. CMU has made a 
second larger canoe for its next r;tce at 
Bucknell University. Future races include 
Princeton on April 22 and, depending on 
available funds, perhaps a Toronto race at 
the beginning of May.
It is evident that the CMU concrete canoe 
team has intentions of capturing trophies 
wherever it goes—and it probably will, 
judging from the first race of the season, 
but, perhaps less evident is the “behind-the- 
scenes” organization, civil engineering know­
how, and enthusiasm which has been the driving force behind the success of the team. 
What the CMU team has is indeed special. 
The southern school participating at 
Charlotte might attribute our victory to 
“Yankee ingenuity.” The CMU team attri­
butes it to spirit and hard work. According 
to Red Whittaker, the teams’s faculty advi­
sor, “There are a lot of teams that take this 
sport seriously. We just take it more serious­
ly than others.”
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
Women’s varsity tennis team won their
C-MU team got strong performances from 
everyone on the team in their only action 
during the spring semester. The women’s 
team plays their season in the fall, except
Chatham meet by thescore of 5-1. Thefor one spring matchwith Chatham.
SINGLES C-MUCHATHAMWINNERSCORE
1. Robin KlarSusie SilversteinChatham6-2, 7-5
2. Ellen BernsteinLisa StewartC-MU6-1, 6-0
3. Denise RyanMaria MortellC-MU64, 6-2
4. Diane WilkElaine LongC-MU3-6,6-1, 6-1
5. Karen WiederhomAnn MendlowityC-MU6-2, 6-3
6. Liz ReedNancy OeslerC-MU6-4,6-2
For Free Brochure • Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.0. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
P/VOA/£
'&X77
& ^ '
''THATS A VERY PRACTICAL BEBCIHtfWEL. DEBBIE/ YOI 
BE GETTING A LOT OF CALLS WITH THE NEW LONG DISTANCE
DISCOUNT RATES 7 35% EVENINGS & 60« NIGHTS and WEEKENDS ON DIAL-DIRECT * CALLS
^Dial-direct calls are those Intra—U S —Mainland calls completed from a residence or business phone without operator 
assistance or calls placed with an operator from a residence or business phone where dial-direct facilities are not available
BeH of Pennsylvania
Evenings 5 PM —11 PM Sunday thru Friday 
Nights 11 P.M.— 8 A.M. Everynignt Weekends All Day Saturday Until 5 PM Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26 - TARTAN - April 19, 1977
MEN'S TENNIS WIN
by Gordon Morrison
The CMU men’s tennis team won a close 
conference match with the Thiel Tomcats 
on Wednesday. The final score was 5-4. 
The team record is now 3—2, which 
includes their fall matches. Their con­
ference record is now 1 —0. The CMU team 
is much improved over last year’s team, 
since the CMU vs. Thiel score last year was
9—0, in favor of CMU. The CMU coach, 
Mrs. Russell, is optimistic about the team’s 
chances this year at the PAC tournament, 
despite the fact that CMU will not re­
ceive favorable seeding in the PAC tour­
nament in May because of the scheduling 
difficulties caused by the short amount of 
time after Spring Break in which to play 
their matches.
SINGLES CMUTHIELWINNERSCORE
1. Chuck CarrollRon SmithThiel6-2, 6-4
2. Gary KemenyAlex DougerThiel1-6, 6-3,6-2
3. Marc SilverChris MooreCMU6-3,2-6,7-5
4. Ralph PetersNeil LeroyThiel6-3, 6-3
5. Paul GehmanGreg Flinch-BaughCMU4—6,6-4,6-1
6. Mike StraubShiraz DomrigarCMU6-2,6-1
DOUBLES
1. Chuck Carroll—Gary KemenyMoore-LeroyCMU6-3,6-1
2. Paul Gehman—Marc SilverSmith—Flinch BaughCMU4—6,6—3,6—2
3. Ralph Peters—Dave ChandlerDomrigar—DougerThiel1—6,6—4,
Pennsylvania Residents:
Need Support for Your 
Education?
The Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agen­
cy (PHEAA) may be able to help finance your 
education with a state grant.
Obtain an application from:
1. The Financial Aid Office at C-MU
2. By writing PHEAA, Towne House, Harrisburg, 
Pa. 17102
Apply No Later Than May 1, 1977!
Jot This Down
The Intramural All-Star Basketball 
Team final results are as follows: First
team: Guards Duquette from ATO and
Sentoski from GSIA, Forwards Marusic 
from ATO and Robinson from Reality, 
and Center Parker from the Celtics. Second 
team: Guards Binnie from PKA and White 
from SUPA Stars, Forwards Faurie from 
GSIA and Massaro from ATO, 
and Center Strosnider from GSIA. Jay 
Duquette from ATO was named the Most 
Valuable Player.
o
¦O'The I.M. men’s foil meet was held on 
Tuesday, April 12. Pat Dunster took first 
place with a 3-0 record. The three other 
fencers tied with 1-2 records, but Matt 
Bevan took second place, Alan Cuteri took 
third place, and Joe Piemock took fourth 
place on indicators.
The I.M. women’s foil meet was held 
on Friday, April 15. Karen Azinger beat 
Lenora Matjasko 54 in the bout for the 
first place trophy.
THE WUJS INSTITUTEN
Here’s a way for college 
gradual« to experience Israel in 
a compwheiMiw one-year 
study/woik programme. You 
spend your fat 5 months in 
Arad, a dynamic new town, 
together vrith other graduates 
from al over the world. There 
you wifl study Hebrew, Judafca 
and Israel society, combined 
with tours and a kibbutz period 
For the following 7 months or 
mote, you can either work in 
your profession, volunteer in a 
kibbutz or development town, 
re-train professionally or continue 
studying. The World Union of 
Jewish Students Institute in Arad 
could be the beginning of your 
love affair with Israel.
Israel Aliy ah Center, 515 Park Avenue,
New York, New York 10022, (212) 752-0600
For information, please send to die above address.
Name----------------------------------------------------___Age__
87
Address.
CityJState¿ip.
University
(USD)
<T)
ti­
fò
FLYING
CLUB
WED. 207 : 30 P.M.SKIBO 45

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 27
Jot This Too
C-MU is trying to have a Women’s 
track meet with California State College of 
Pa., which might take place on Wednesday, 
April 27 at 4:30. If you are interested, 
please see as soon as possible Miss Fisk in 
Room 1 of the Gym or Gordon Morrison 
% at the TARTAN. Please list the events you 
^ would be interested in trying. If you want 
to participate, please let us know quickly. 
If we do not get enough people, there is 
a possibility of having Wednesday, April 27 
as a possible date for a women’s intramural 
track meet.
The women’s field hockey, volleyball, 
basketball, and fencing teams and the 
men’s fencing team have an important 
meeting at 4:30 on Thursday in Miss Fisk’s 
office concerning the Athletic Depart­
ment Banquet. If you can not attend 
this meeting, see Miss Fisk before Friday to 
let her know whether or not you want to 
go to the banquet on Monday, May 2.
All varsity teams should see their 
coaches or team captain regarding the Ath­
letic Department Banquet that will be on 
Monday, May 2. Reservations must be 
made by this Friday, April 22 if you want 
to attend.
The I.M. 3 person 3 weapon fencing 
meet was won by the team of Victor 
Brennan, Gordon Morrison, and Karen Az- 
inger. The team consisting of Avram 
Scheiner, Shaun Morrisey, and Joe Pier- 
nock took second place, while the team of 
Debby Theriault, Jenny Willis, and Lenora 
Matjasko took third place.
George Harvey was named to the 
NCAA Division III All America Basketball 
Team last week. It is the first time in 
many years that anyone from C-MU has 
gained All American status for any sport. 
(Possibly 1938 wa$ the last time.)
The Intramural Banquet will not be on 
Monday, May 2 as originally scheduled. 
Instead, it will be held the next day, 
Tuesday, May 3 at 6:00.
The Intramural softball finals were 
played on Sunday. MDBC-Again won the 
major league finals, when they beat BTP 
12-10. The intermediate league was won 
by the Clams, who beat Hammerschlag by 
the score of 10-6. The minor league 
champions are the Shrinks. They beat the 
Tech House Chicks 8-7. The women’s 
softball league was won by Three-D. They 
beat Tri-Delt 14-13 in 8 innings.
0Ever noticehow it’s easier . to acethe courses you like?
It finally comes down to commitment.
When you don’t like a course, it’s hard to excel. The class gets 
tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your work 
suffers. And so do your grades.
Compare that with the courses you really believe in.
You care more. You try more And without even noticing, you just
naturally do better.
It’s true in school. It’s true outside of school.
For example, we believe theres just one way to brew 
Busch beer. The natural way. With natural ingredients.
Natural carbonation. Natural ageing.
We believe that’s the best way to brew a beer.
And when you believe in what you’re 
doing, you just naturally do it better.
Taste a Busch and we think you’ll agree.
BUSCH
When you believe in what you’re doing, you just naturally do it better.
Inc St laua Mg

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday, April 23
GONG SHOW1*30 “ 3*30 CASH PRIZES
DANCEwith AURA10’.30 -1-30 am
FREE SEMI-FORMAL TICKETS & CMU ID REQUIRED TICKETS AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
Friday, April 22
prr'/vrrr' Chee CaatI ILsl VJU WITH CMU ID12 noon - 2 pm
SPRING 
CARNIVAL
WITH
Thursday, April 21
SQUARE DANCE
8-11 pm _________
