TOMORROW
NEXT DAY
Hi 150/Lo 130
NEXT DAY x 2Hi 101/Lo 11
NEXT DAY x 3
Andrew Carnegie’s Toilet Paper Since 20 B.C.THE KATJIAT
Volume = length x width x heightwww.amihotornot.com11 December 2000
Overage drinking at PHI 
causes police concernHosing services admits to incompetency
by Lisa Loewi nger
Fake ID owner
Accusations were flying last 
Thursday when police discovered 
CMU senior Lance Bigelow drink­
ing at a local bar, Puma Hollow Inn 
(PHI)- The 22 year old denied alle­
gations that he had purchased alco­
hol at the Inn, telling police offi­
cials, bystanders, and panhandlers, 
(that he had only entered the bar to 
pick up his sister. PHI owner Rocky 
St. Craig supported Bigelow’s 
•claims.
“This has all been a big misunder­
standing,” Bigelow told police. “I 
wasn’t drinking that Buttery 
Nipple,-I was just holding it for a 
friend.” Bigelow went on to say that 
he had not planned to enter the 
establishment at all, but was just 
looking for his younger sister.
“We find this sister story uncon­
vincing,” said Officer Randy 
Savage. “We’ve looked into it exten­
sively and can find no evidence that 
one Traci Bigelow was even at the 
bar on the night in question.” 
Officer Savage went on to say 
that he believes the act was pre­
meditated, that Bigelow had told 
friends earlier that same evening 
that he might go to the bar. 
According to Savage, witnesses 
heard the suspect sheepishly admit 
that, regardless of the fact that he 
turned 21 over one year ago, and 
therefore had other drinking 
opportunities open to him, he still 
found himself being drawn back to 
his old haunt.
“It’s sad,” said Savage. “These 
addictions can be embarrassingly 
hard to break.”
Despite of the evidence, Bigelow 
See PHI, page A3
by Manny D. Samuels
Professional Exaggerator
When Hosing Services promised fraternity 
Tirami Su that work would be done on their 
house this past summer, they had every inten­
tion of not following through on that agree­
ment. Now, three months after returning to 
school, the brothers have just realized that in 
fact, no work has been done. Among Hosing 
Services promises were new beer dispensing 
fountains, more shagable bedrooms, and an 
upgrade of all their windows to 2000.
“To be honest, we were just hoping they’d 
forget. We just said we’d do it to shut them up, 
but no one actually planned on doing any work 
on their house. No one anticipated that any of 
them would be sober enough to notice,” said 
Director of Hosing Services Mike Timothy.
According to Timothy, these broken promises 
are nothing new for Hosing Services. They 
have been tricking the fraternities like this for 
the past ten years.
“This is off the record, but just between you 
and me, we have not done a single renovation
project since I started working here 40 years 
ago. We promise that we’ll do a couple each 
summer and then people normally just forget. 
We doctor up some photos to send home to the 
parents and no one knows any better. You 
promise you won’t print that in the paper, 
right?,” said Timothy.
“The doctored photos almost tricked us. We 
read the article in the Hosing newsletter a few 
weeks ago and felt damn proud of how much 
better our house is than it used to be. But as it 
turns out, it was still urine that flowed from our 
fountains, not beer,” said Tirami Su President 
Bob Swift, as he scratched his crotch.
Timothy continued on to say that the broth­
ers should have realized that they were never 
going to get the upgrades. “The only place 
where beer flows freely from a fountain on this 
campus is in my office,” he said as he belched. 
After being skewed to meet the hidden agenda 
of this article’s author, Timothy said, “I’ll be 
damned if anyone is going to tap into my beer 
pipeline. Not that I have any reason to be 
threatened. I can drink those' boys under the 
table any day.”
“Besides, there is no need for more shagable
bedrooms,” continued Timothy. “ Those boys 
aren’t going to get any no matter what they do. 
They’re hopeless,” he said.
Speaking on the condition of anonymity, 
Greek Council President and heavy weight 
champion of the world Gyro Souflaki, said that 
he felt the renovation oversight was a result of 
resentment between the fraternity and Hosing 
Service.
“I can’t believe Hosing Services is still mad at 
us for not inviting them to our parties anymore. 
It was nothing personal. It’s just that when they 
were there, none of the women paid any atten­
tion to us anymore. There’s nothing sexier than 
being able to say ‘can I fulfill your maintenance 
request, baby?”’
Nevertheless, to make up for the oversight, 
Timothy said that Hosing Services agrees to 
simulate the renovation process by having 
workers go into their house and make a mess, 
throw away irreplaceable artifacts, and disable 
their toilets. Tirami Su agreed to this proposed 
plan under the stipulation that there be an 
effort made to violate public health and safety 
regulations.
See HOSING, page A3
Sampling error: ±0.5
Natrat apologizes for objective 
reporting ofgreek philantropy
A graph.about nothing. This is one of the most informative pieces in the paper this week.
by Mr. Factually Correct
News creation team
Members of The Natrat Editorial 
Bored were shocked and appalled 
to realize a severe mistake they 
allowed to be published in the 
most recent issue of their weeldy 
rag. While oversights are general­
ly considered by the Bored to be a 
strength of the newspaper, the 
severity of this error resulted in 
much embarrassment for the 
school’s most corrupt student pub­
lication.
The article causing this week’s 
controversy was -an objective news 
story about the Greek philan­
thropy event “Take Your 
Daughters To A Frat Party Day.” 
While the story was inappropriate 
because it was fair and unbiased, 
. even more serious was its violation 
of The Natrat’s policy to only cover
stories that portray the Greeks in a 
negative light. Statements such as 
“a good time was had by all” 
should never be used in such a 
story.
“It has long been a policy of The 
Natrat to only report on events 
that make Greeks look bad. Since 
these groups generally contribute 
to the campus in a positive way, it 
is our practice to exploit any of 
their wrongdoings or indiscretions 
to the greatest extent possible,” 
said Natrat Editor-in-Cheese Papa 
W. Smurf. “When that’s not possi­
ble, we make stuff up. But we 
never cover legitimate and worth­
while events - there is no journal­
istic integrity in that,” he said.
Smurf continued on to defend 
The Natrat’s policies, which the 
Innnerfaternity Council Co- 
Presidents Bitch and Moan often 
criticize.
“Let me make myself clear. Our
practices in covering these stories 
are completely fair and consistent. 
We adhere to our typical proce­
dures of skewing the facts, mis­
quoting individuals, and failing to 
represent a situation is its larger 
context as we do with all stories,” 
said Smurf. “This is all in our 
effort to mislead the campus com­
munity and deceive our reader­
ship,” he continued.
The article’s author, freshman 
Candy Kane, said that she was 
unaware of the Natrat’s policies. “I 
just showed up and they assigned 
me a story. They did not provide 
any training or guidance. They 
said I was on my own,” she said.
The Big Cheese called Kane into 
his office to teach her a thing or two. 
He handed her a three hundred 
page manifesto entitled, “The 
Natrat’s Hidden Agenda.” This jour­
nalistic bible provides much guid- 
See OBJECTIVE, page A3
University names Burt 
Bacharach as president
by Tom Jones
Fellow Alumni Lounge Singer
In a move that is sure to send 
shockwaves through the world of 
academics and business this week, 
President Gerard Colon of Carnage 
Melon University resigned on a late 
night Canadian talk show—in 
French. Early this .morning, Robert- 
Shapiro, Chairman of the Board of 
Old Farts and CEO of Pittsburgh’s 
Li’l Eagle grocery stores, appointed 
Burt Bacharach of Las Vegas, 
Nevada the new President of CMU. 
Immediately after Shapiro’s radical 
decision, Intel Corporation asked 
Colon to take over as CEO of the 
company—Colon accepted.
“What CMU needs now is love 
sweet love,” said Bacharach from 
his 747, Love Force One. “By the 
way, do you know the way to San 
Jose?” he said, wondering if he 
could visit CMU’s new satellite cam­
pus which he has called a complete 
and utter disgrace to peace-loving 
swingers. “I just keep wishin’, and 
hopin’, and prayin’ that they’ll turn
it into a petting zoo.”
Colon left Pittsburgh this morn­
ing, after being driven to the air­
port by his personal bodyguards, 
who are also members of CMU’s 
elite crime fighting police squad. 
While clearly in a hurry to take-up 
his new position at Intel, Colon 
stopped for a few minutes to talk to 
The Natrat. “Intel’s given me every­
thing I need. I’ll be working in the 
basement of -their offices for three 
to five years, and then they’ll fire 
me. The board of directors can 
then justifiably use the space for 
their new bowling alley,” said 
Colon as he sipped on a Mai Tai. 
“They’re just looking for an excuse, 
and as everybody knows, I’m the 
master of excuses.”
Colon’s closet advisor, Michael 
Bolton, CMU Money Whoring, will 
also join Colon at Intel. Bolton said 
that he will use his time in 
California to stalk the singer who 
shares his name. “That genius of an 
artist is actually making me look 
good. I celebrate his entire cata­
logue, but honestly, where does he 
See BURT, page A1
CS couple has sex 
despite work load 
during ‘Hell Week’
Lack of laundry tokens 
causes wide-spread odor
Aretha Franklin/Photo Staff
Students joined handed and shouted out in song last week when Burt 
bacharach was named the University’s new president.
by Linus Solaris
Nerd
Charles De Mar was working 
on his final Operating Systems 
project when he heard bizarre 
sounds emanating from the 
room next door in Morewood 
B-Tower. When the “muffled 
moaning” would not stop, De 
Mar called Campus Police out 
of concern for the resident on 
his floor, for which he is an RA.
“At first I thought that [resi­
dent] Lane Myer was watching 
some pornography again like 
he usually does every Friday 
night while working on his 
Graphics homework, but it 
turns out he was actually get­
ting laid,” said De Mar, a senior 
computer science major. 
“When campus police arrived, 
they were in just as much awe 
of the amazing spectacle as we 
were.”
In light of the exceptionally 
large amount of work and 
stress during the week before 
exams, better known around 
campus as “Hell Week,” Myer, a 
sophomore computer science 
major, later admitted to engag­
ing in sexual intercourse with 
fellow computer science major 
Monique Junot, a freshman.
“I know I should’ve been 
doing my Algorithms assign­
ment.' I’m already two days 
behind and I’m not sure if I’m 
going to finish,” said Lane. “But 
then Monique called and I got 
turned on. Then one thing led 
to the next...”
Many members of the cam­
pus community already consid­
er copulation anytime at CMU 
to be a rare phenomenon. But 
the reaction upon hearing such
an event taking place between 
two CS majors so late in the 
semester was especially strong.
“I just absolutely cannot 
comprehend why they would 
waste a good 30 seconds of 
programming to do something 
like sex,” said Ricky Smith, a 
junior Electrical and Computer 
Engineering student. “I mean 
I’m cutting out the daily flog­
ging of my dolphin to my Girls 
of Slash Dot special sweatpants 
issue and I’m still not going to 
come close to finishing my 
Computer Architecture project 
in time.”
“Sex is so high school. 
Doesn’t this kid realize he’s at 
Carnegie Mellon now?” said 
Johnny Gasparini, a senior 
mechanical engineering stu­
dent. “If he wants some play, he 
should go down the street [to 
Pitt].”
Further investigation reveals 
that Lane and Junot may have 
engaged in sexual union sever­
al times before they were dis­
covered. However, the evi­
dence remains circumstantial.
“All week long, I saw Lane 
walking around campus with 
his clothes and hair completely 
disheveled. He also smelled 
kind of fishy,” said Smith. “I 
had assumed that he had just 
been pulling all-nighters, but it 
turns out he was giving some 
rides on his baloney pony.”
Despite the recent series of 
events, not everyone on cam­
pus was impressed or sur­
prised.
“Nah, man. I gets ‘da mad 
hotties every nizight,” said 
Chris Cummins, a senior busi­
ness administration major. 
“Why is this little CS dipshit be 
frontin’ me, yo?”
by Tunak-Tunak Tun
Laundry Extrodinare
Students in campus housing that 
were hoping to get their laundry 
done this week had those hopes 
dashed, as Retail Services 
announced last Friday that it was 
completely out of laundry tokens. 
The tokens, which are required to 
operate the majority of the washers
and dryers on campus, had been in 
short supply in recent weeks. 
However, according to Retail 
Services Director Samir 
Nayeenanajar, the sudden increase 
in demand for tokens quickly erod­
ed the supply.
“What can I say? This is a suck. 
Students were simply doing too 
much laundry. I mean, you need 
clean clothes, but there was simply 
See LAUNDRY, page A3
Big Bird/Photo Staff
Students panicked when the University made the anouncement that there was 
a shortage of laundry tokens. They fear that the stench will soon overcome them.
INSIDE THE KAT5LAT
Be sure to catch porn, scandal, perversion, 
fallacy, politics, and lots of hard facts in 
this weeks’ Natrat-Pushing the Freedom of 
Press Envelope one more time.
Don i tako i! loo seriously - it's a joke. Dig?

---------------------------------------------------

2THE ATflAT • DECEMBER 11, 2000
Recent flooding in Morewood Gardens caused students to take extreme measures. Many students felt that 
this year’s flooding was even worse than last years. Residents were required to wade through waters up to 
3 feet deep in order to escape the flooded area.
by Bob Jones
Expert in stress relief
In what is being heralded as the 
most exciting Carnegie event since 
the Homestead Steel Strike, a cou­
ple, being of a male and female 
nature, found the joy of sexual 
intercourse. On December 9 in the 
new campus amphitheater, senior 
psychology major Harry Bush and 
freshman computer science major 
Sue Ya-Wang were exhibiting their 
newly found technical skills.
Bush and Wang had just met 
earlier in the day at a Women’s 
Center Rally at the Fence. Wang 
was originally interested in obtain­
ing assistance for her 15-112 pro­
gramming assignment. Wang was 
originally unable to find help from 
her classmates. A disruption 
occurred between Wang and a
freshman CS male when she 
allegedly tried to seduce him via 
AOL’s Instant Messenger. 
However, the unidentified male 
was consumed with a rousing 
game of Warcraft.
“I was like, ‘why don’t you just 
help me,’ And he was ‘like, I need 
my fix.’ Whatever that means,” 
said a calm and collected Wang.
Bush, once known for his failed 
attempt at a coup d’tat of current 
Stupid Body President Dude Libel, 
was also relieved.
“The stress man. She had all this 
stress she kept saying. 1 just did a 
classic suave move. It’s a basic 
principle taught in the Means of 
Hypnosis I.”
Dean of Student Affairs and 
National Football League demoli­
tion man Michael Dean Perry was 
excited about the new possibilities 
this might lead to.
“Think of how we can expand this' 
new “sex” thing. I think CMU stu-*' 
dent leaders will be inclined to rise 
to this occasion. They need to start 
organizing more of these programs! ' 
It can become a group activity!” 
Perry then led into a diatribe of 
the importance of the stunt in the . 
4-3 defense.
Apparently, sexual intercourse is. ;i 
not uncommon at other universe. 
ties. One University of Pittsburgh 
freshman said, “That’s nothing. 
I’ve banged bodies with a member 
from every Pitt fraternity.”
Director of Intramural Sports 
Deuce Bigalow thereafter 
announced the creation of team 
sex.
“This IM league will allow the I 
cream to rise to the top, 
Competition at CMU will not only 
make better athletes, but also a 
happier student body.”
Students learn ways to relieve stress
Senate declares CMU a Communist state
by Joseph Stalin
Comrade
During the last meeting of 
Student Senate, members voted to 
ratify a move that would turn the 
student governing board into a 
Communist organization. The 
move had been under considera­
tion for some time and was pending 
approval from the deans of Student 
Activities and Student Affairs. Once 
the deans offered their support of 
the plan the Senate voted the 
movement in during a closed ses­
sion this past Tuesday.
According to the Senate press 
release, the decision was made to 
show student support for the 
administration’s new allegiance 
with Russia. President of Student 
Senate Andrew Burns stated, “We 
felt that it was time to gather sup­
port for this project. Obviously our 
comrades in the administration 
have been putting a lot of effort in 
to this for some time, so it must be 
for the benefit of the students, 
right? I mean, consider Intel taking 
over Warner Hall last Wed— 
umm... I mean... nevermind.”
Among other changes in discipli­
nary policy and dress code, the 
Senate has disbanded the old JFC 
and replaced it with the new
Judicious Funding Comrade 
Coalition. The JFCC will be respon­
sible for taking all profits and other 
remaining monies from student 
organizations at the end of each 
year and redistributing it through a 
redeveloped allocation process. At 
least 70 percent of surplus funds will 
be put in to a Mother University 
fund, which will be governed by the 
new Administrative Republic.
Judicious Funding Comrade David 
Liberty commented, “It’s about time 
that we brought Communist fiscal 
policy back. The organizations on 
campus have had far too much inde­
pendence and control over the way 
that their money is spent. Students 
should not'feel that they know what 
is best for the future of the university 
or themselves.”
The previous fiscal system had 
been criticized as being unreason­
ably slow and difficult to operate 
under because organizations were 
forced to make special requests to 
receive any additional funding. The 
obvious flaw, as the Student Senate 
pointed out, was that the adminis­
tration wasn’t set up to support a 
central monetary control system. 
The old capitalist model of distrib­
uted control was efficient but didn’t 
lend enough support to the future 
of the Mother University. Thus the 
new system will provide long-term
support for the University and will ; 
help its constituents contribute to 
the elevation of all classes of activi- j 
ties, even if it means sacrificing a 
few small clubs along the way.
“Who cares about the Juggling 
Club? .Certainly not me,” added 
Liberty.
Ricky Shroader, a dirty blonde 
second year Professional Writing 
and make-believe medieval knight 
lamented that the Bagpipe band is 
“preparing for a tough winter and a 
limited supply of nylons.” Indeed 
many student groups are paring 
down their operations in prepara­
tion for a long winter coupled with 
limited supplies. The recent Senate 
budgetary cutbacks seem out of 
place in a time when the American 
economy is seemingly stronger than 
ever but apparently are the result of 
the discontinuation of scholarships.
“No one should be rewarded if 
they do better than anyone else,” 
Liberty quipped. “I always say, ‘The 
nail that stands out gets pounded 
down’.”
According to the Comradeship of 
Computing Services, IP addresses 
are also being rationed in prepara­
tion for the second cold war. 
During a rally staged by the Asian 
Comrade Association, one dis­
traught CMU student exclaimed 
before covering his face and run­
ning, “I want my static IP back!”
Not all organizations are having a 
hard time with the change. WRCT 
enthusiastically jumped at the 
chance to expand their coverage 
worldwide and added an All- 
Russian show. Despite the poor i 
quality of the records that were 
seized from the black market, 
WRCT’s ratings didn’t change since 
only four listeners tuned in, as usual.
“Through our partnership with 
the Russian Communist party, we 
are working towards a complete 
equality throughout our Mother 
University,” president Jerry 
Copenhagen proclaimed at the 
rededication of Warner Hall. “This 
is about the students and about 
making all of us—including our 
valuable organizations—part of a 
whole. We are all the same now.”In line with new Communist plans, Intel will soon be moving into the UC.
Aretha Franklin/Photo Staff
Burt Bacharach recently held a meeting with his newly appointed secretaries and board members.
Burt Bacharach becomes CMU
president, appoints new staff
BURK, from page A1 
get off?” Bolton went on to say 
that he feels Bacharach is “loose, 
wild, and too honest,” to be the 
President of CMU.
Bacharach agreed. “Hey man, 
what can I say? People love me. 
I’m Burt Bacharach, and this will 
be a Burt Bacharach University— 
hey I kind of like that—Burt 
Bacharach University. Yeah man. 
That’s hip.” Apparently spurred by 
our questions, Bacharach said that 
he’ll ask Shapiro to rename the 
University on Tuesday morning. 
“If I give him $5, I’m sure he’ll be 
okay with it. Plus I have my 
Disadvantage Card, so I get. 50 
cents off this week!”
However, this biggest surprise, 
came this morning when The 
Natrat obtained highly unclassi­
fied documents from CMU’s Soft- 
porn Entertainment Institute, 
which is clearly unrelated to, and 
is not developing vibrator tech­
nology for the US Department of 
Defense. In reality, SEI is devel­
oping the highly unclassified 
devices for Britain’s Ministry of 
Defence. According to a state­
ment from the Queen’s Press 
Office, “I...er...we as a country 
need this technology. Sex? In 
England? Never. It is uncivilized 
and barbaric. We genetically 
engineer all Brits. Look at my 
son, Prince Charles—isn’t he
cute?” Bacharach said that he 
fully supports SEI, but will “burn, 
down the building” if they even, 
attempt to take his read Swingers'i 
Line Stapler.
During the next day, executive' 
assistants will be equipping J 
Bacharach’s sixth floor office in 
Whorener Hall with a purple 
rotating bed, full size Jacuzzi,'; 
and multi-colored candles!': 
Bacharach has requested that the 
executive assistants change their 
names back to ‘secretaries’; 
Prince Charles could not be 
reached for comment—Palace 
officials said that he was oil 
Holiday in Hell with Katherine 
Harris.
Need a job?
We’ve got you covered.
• Solutions • Integration • E-commerce • Diversification • reengineering •
• Paradigm Adjustment • Millennium Frontier • EBusiness • Enterprise •
• TPS Reports • Synergy • Project Outsourcing • Consultation • Swingline 
Staplers • B2B to B3B • Meat Packing • Inspiration Technology • Freedom 
Machines • Flairware • O-Faces • Solut at A Reasonable Volume * Breast 
Examinations • Analysis • strategic MumboJumbo • sex For Hire •
Information Session: 
7-8 pm Friday 
Corporate Whoring Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

THE HATH AT • DECEMBER 11, 20003
Got Filler?
THE MATÜAT
Not only is it a source of news, but it is far 
more entertaining then nude men.
Crime and Incident Report
12/8 BATTERY — UPMC emergency medical 
response team filed a domestic violence report with 
Campus Police after admitting a victim from Carnegie- 
Mellon student. The victim was male, crouched over 
and suffering high levels of pain. The victim reported 
that he was intimately engaging with his girlfriend 
when she abruptly "quit on him." Police later detained 
his girlfriend and lectured her at length to have proper 
consideration for others.
12/8 ATTITUDE — Campus police were called to 
scene to arbitrate when a Mudge resident complained 
he had suffered intolerable amounts of gruff from his 
roommate. The accused roommate responded to 
questioning only with extremely poor sarcasm and 
"What’s it to you fucknutz?". Campus Police shipped 
the disgruntled jerk to Micronesia until he learns to 
change his attitude.
12/10 STAMP ACT -- Campus constables respond­
ed to a notice that a rogue campus was being circulat­
ed without the official seal of King George III. An offi­
cer found members of the local rabble distributing the 
campus paper "Eatme." The leader was apprehended 
and found guilty until proven innocent. He was sen­
tenced to three nights in stocks and his apartment will 
be dedicated to quartering soldiers until further notice.
12/7 THEFT - A student in Hunt library was 
astounded to find his TI-86 graphing calculator stolen 
after mere seconds away from his desk. It was only 8 
seconds and then BOOM gone. I can’t believe it. 
ARGGGGG. What kind of asshole steals other people’s 
calculators? Did anybody see who took it? 1 swear to 
God that I will so beat that guy’s ass if I ever find out 
who did it.
Compiled by 
Arseman Guppie
"I
like The Natrat.” - Wesley Willis
I
Hosing services holds grudge after 
popularity removes them from party
Timothy said that while Hosing Services usually 
works hard to come up with an unrealistic time frame 
for such projects, their magic eight ball was on loan to 
the Academic Advising center to help students select 
course schedules for the Spring. Having to rely pure­
ly on logic, Timothy said, “the project should be com­
pleted as soon as the workers get off their lazy asses.” 
Still unresolved is a conflict regarding the freedom 
of expression in the brothers’ rooms. Citing the need 
for consistency, Timothy ordered a worker to go into 
each brother’s room and replace all existing posters 
and decorations with “From the top floor down” 
posters prepared by Hosing Services.
Tirami Su brothers objected to the posters, saying 
that the slogan was “just plain stupid.” They also said 
standardization is contrary to the mission of their 
organization - a mission that requires everybody to 
wear the same clothes, talk the same way, and have 
the same interests.
In protest, Tirami Su brothers broke into Timothy’s 
office during the weekend and hung up neon beer 
signs, posters of babes in bikinis, and a large, glow-in- 
the-dark image of a marijuana leaf. Upon returning to
his office on Monday, Timothy was stunned to ; 
what the brothers had done.
“I thought those boys hated me. But to come in here 
and see how bitchin’ they made this place really 
makes me think twice,” he said two times.
Mike Timothy was confused when asked questions 
about renovations in the fraternity houses.
Natrat admits to objectively covering event
OBJECTIVE, from page A1 
ance and is supposed to be distrib­
uted to all incoming writers as soon 
as someone gets around to it. The 
“Hidden Agenda” also saves time for 
reporters by providing them with 
the point an article should make in. 
advance, thereby reducing the need 
to research and investigate.
While embarrassed by this
recent slip-up, The Big Cheese said 
he is proud of what the newspaper 
has accomplished during this past 
year.
“I’ll tell you, it wasn’t easy trying 
to balance skewing the facts' about 
Stupid Senate, the Greeks, and the 
Chick Center, while at the same 
time trying to maintain our status 
as a tool of the administration,” he
said.
“But in the end, it really is true 
that we are trying to put in as little 
effort as possible to get this thing 
done in this most minimally accept­
able way,” he said. “At the end of 
the day, we take pride in the fact 
that after all we’ve done to distort 
the truth and cause heartache for 
people, nobody will read it anyway.”
Police accuse PHI of serving overage students
PHI, from page A1 
still claims his innocence. “How 
could I have meant to go to PHI?” 
he asks. “I always hit Mad Max on 
Thursday nights.”
Rocky St. Craig, the owner of 
PHI, also denies serving the over­
aged drinker that evening. 
“There’s only one hard and fast 
rule at my place,” he said. “No
overaged drinking. It just isn’t 
worth the trouble.”
However, when pressed further 
about the events in question, St. 
Craig admits it’s possible the 
Buttery Nipples reached Bigelow’s 
hands. “There was so much confu­
sion that night,” he said. “Purple 
Hooters to the left of me. Alabama 
Slammers on the right. I couldn’t
keep track of everything. I never 
served the kid directly, but I can’t 
guarantee that he didn’t somehow 
get his hands on something.” 
Bigelow received a small fine for 
the infringement, but maintains 
his innocence. He is in the process 
of suing the Pittsburgh Police for, 
“irreparable damage done to my 
psyche and reputation.”
Students had mixed reactions to recent 
anouncements of laundry token shortage
LAUNDRY, from page A1
a level of demand we were completely unprepared 
for,” said Nayeenanajar.
“Besides,” he added, “there are plenty of coin-operat- 
ed machines and off-campus laundry services that stu­
dents can use in the meantime. It’s not as if we’re screw­
ing them over completely. At any rate, the student body 
on this campus could certainly stand to shower more.” 
Reactions to the announcement were mixed. While 
most students were typically apathetic or had not 
heard about the announcement at all, some were 
actually quite upset at the news.
“You mean I actually have to leave campus? I can’t 
do that — I’ve got too much work to do! Besides, 
there’s no way I’m taking my clothes out in the street 
— that’s just nasty,” said Jill Prissy, a sophomore 
drama major.
When asked for an estimate of how long it will take 
to obtain more laundry tokens, Nayeenanajar only 
said, “I can’t say right now. Hopefully, it won’t be 
more than a few days, but it could be as long two or 
three weeks.”
There were some students that were willing to take 
some action. Early on Saturday morning, students 
leaving Doherty Hall were stunned to see a group of 
people clad in black trenchcoats guarding the Fence 
with what appeared to be swords and other weapon­
ry. On the Fence were painted such messages as, 
“Who smells now?” and “ld6 to see if YOU do.” When 
approached, the apparent leader of the group, Brian 
Nairb, a junior computer science major, stepped for­
ward to comment.
“You always hear jokes about how bad CS majors 
smell, like we don’t shower or anything. Now that 
nobody can wash their clothes, we’ll see who smells 
the worst on campus now. I bet half the people on 
campus would rather smell bad than leave campus or 
dig up change,” Nairb said.
“This is a suck,” said Retail 
Services Director Samir 
Nayeenanajar, regarding the 
laundry token shortage.
Passersby did not entirely share this sentiment, 
however. “Just look at them,” said James Beam, a 
first-year monotonous writing major. “There are 
tons of dead birds around them that obviously 
couldn’t stand the smell. Come to think of it, I’m 
starting to feel sick just standing here. It would take 
a concerted effort by anybody else on campus to 
smell that bad, whether they washed their clothes or 
not,” said Beam.
When asked whether he understood the effect of 
the dearth of tokens on the overall smell of cam­
pus, Nayeenanajar only said, “Look, I’m working 
on it. In reality, there are only a small group of 
people on campus who are so stupid they can’t fig­
ure out how to deal with this problem. If people 
are that dumb, no amount of laundry tokens will 
help them.”
University appoints Frankie Cadillac 
as new director of Corporate Whoring
by Chestie LaRue
V/hore
Last month, the Natrat reported 
1 the surprise dismissal of 
Corporate Whoring director, Stilton 
McDaniel. According to President 
johan Shmesident, the dismissal 
was the result of Stilton’s inability 
o crush student dissention con­
cerning the decision to turn three 
loors of Morewood Gardens into 
:emporary housing for the employ­
es of “University-friendly” corpo­
rations. Last Friday, President 
Shmesident announced the 
appointment of a new director, 
Frankie Cadillac.
‘We’re very excited to have 
Frankie on board,” said President 
Shmesident. “We think he’ll give 
the whole Whoring department a 
real kick in the pants.”
When asked about Cadillac’s 
credentials, President Shmesident
admitted that the new director 
lagged slightly behind his prede­
cessor, who received a Masters in 
Corporate Whoring from the pres­
tigious Wharton School of 
Business at the University of 
Pennsylvania. But President 
Shmesident claims that what 
Cadillac lacks in technical 
prowess, he more than makes up 
for with “real-life experience.” 
Cadillac admitted that he has a 
lot of catching up to do and that he 
looks forward to getting down to 
business. “Aw, yeah,” said Cadillac. 
“I got in today iDout three or so and 
my ass got right to work. I told the 
girl with the tits [Department 
Assistant Bernice Leglockl outside 
the door, I say, ‘Hey, pretty baby. 
Walk your fine ass on over this way 
‘fore I sock you in the mouth. We 
done got shit to do.’”
Added Cadillac, “Damn, girl! You 
got a coupla fine ones on you, your 
damn self. Damn!”
Little Bugger/Junior Photo Man
Frankie Cadillac has taken CMU’s corporate whoring position to new levels.
Cadillac knows that he must 
work hard if he is to fulfill the high 
expectations that the University 
has of him. He claims that he feels 
rightfully intimidated by the 
department’s previous perfor­
mance. “The girl with the tits 
[Leglockl brought her ass on in 
here, gave me all this financial 
shit. I mean, this thing was a moth­
er and every page talkin’ bout 
‘interest’ and ‘dividends’ and some 
high yield shit. And I said, ‘Screw 
this, man. I’m goin’ out back for a 
smoke.’”
Leglock said that she’s already 
noticed that Cadillac’s tactics differ 
dramatically from his predeces­
sor’s. “A student came in today with 
another petition against the 
Morewood housing project. Mr. 
Stilton just used to wait until the 
student left, and throw the petition 
away. But Mr. Cadillac’s approach is 
entirely different. He pulled out 
these brass knuckles and lunged at 
the student from behind his desk,” 
she said.
Leglock acknowledged that 
Cadillac’s methods were unortho­
dox, but that they seemed to have 
the desired result. “Mr. Cadillac 
sure scared the bejezus out of that 
kid. I don’t think I’ve ever seen any­
one run that fast. I doubt we’ll see 
another petition around here any­
time soon,” she said.
When asked about the incident, 
Cadillac responded that he believed 
that he handled a delicate situation 
appropriately. “Oh, that prick,” he 
said. “Got' all up in my shit, when I 
ain’t even been here two damn min­
utes. Damn near crapped himself 
when I busted out my knuckles.”
President Shmesident applauded 
Cadillac’s “proactive methods of 
dealing with student unrest” and 
suggested that the recent addition 
to the Corporate Whoring depart­
ment could be the beginning of a 
long and mutually beneficial rela­
tionship with the University.
When told of President 
Shmesident’s comments, Cadillac 
seemed surprised by the adminis­
trator’s support of his violent 
actions. “Damn, rich people sure is 
crazy,” he said.

---------------------------------------------------

Bit chum
Create your own damn editorial 
for once, you f
THE XI DAY OF THE GREATUS MONTHUS OF INTEL’S YEAR 2000THE KATKAT
Last
12-letter noun beginning with ‘m’ and ending with ‘ing’
, the University President, Dean of_______Affairs, and the Vice
holiday
Provost ofimplemented a new policy that prohibits_________stu-
noun ending in -ing adjective
dents from using_______while they are in___________. The_______trend of the
plural noun name of class adjective
University to ban the usage of such_______products is___________disturbing and
adjective adverb
on the reason for such actions: the construction ofpoints to a serious _
the new._ Solutions Center sponsored by.
name of condom brand name of famous person
As if the_________actions of the University to sell-out to these giant________of
adjective noun
corporate culture were ______ enough, now students must cope with the
adjective
_________of such a disruption. Even the University appears to take the side of
plural noun
these big-wigs and have_______their backs on students by making
adjective verb (past tense)
them Priority #_______. If Carnegie Mellon chooses to restrict the lives of its
number
students for no other reason than to accomodate its corporate sponsors, then 
we say, “That’s_________________________________!!”
expletive expletive expletive
Back in the day when a cup of_______cost just_______, colleges would go out
beverage • price
of their way______to their students. Undergraduates were treated with the
infinitive
utmost_______. Nowaday’s it almost seems like________ has to sleep with
your mom s name
action).
1 name of guy in room
. in order to get some attention (and not too mention some _
adjective
But it really isn’t that hard to change things for the better. You just have to
know which buttons to _. and which strings to.Also, it’s a big help
to get the support of some alumni, likeand
name of 80’s baseball player 
. Alumni, especially those from the Class of______, tend to
cast member from Survivor
be very. when talking with current students. Moreover, they have a
adjective
. influence over CMU. All they have to do is open their _and the
adjective
administration. Before you know it, the school government will have
verb ending in -s
taken the______of action.
adjective
The fact remains, however, that Pittsburgh just plain______and no one wants
adjective
to live here. That is why those _. alumni just__ it up wherever they
tonight is extremely _In the meantime, when you are a senior you can
adjective
, find a job at a______factory, and get the hell out of Pittburgh.
THE MAT5LAT #
Andrew Carnegie's Toilet Paper Since SO B. C. 
EDITORIAL BORED 
PAPA W. SMURF, Editor-in-Cheese
HARRY ARSE, Mismanagement Editor
SMURFETTE, Vindictive News Editor 
MOJO JOJO, Bitchum Editor 
NOBODY, Greek Events Editor 
O.J. SIMPSON, Spurts Editor 
MAY KSHTUP, Exagertation Editor 
MARTHA STEWART, Artsy Fartsy Editor 
ME, Bidniz and Technical Bitches 
RICKY SCHRODER, Business Editor 
G. FOREMAN, Lean, Mean, Grillin’ Machine 
RICKY SCHRODER, Business Editor 
HONEY GARCIA, Adult Entertainment Editor 
ANDY WARHOLBERG, Fart Editor 
HANS HAFNER, Smut Editor 
MACK DADDY, Photo Editor 
BURT BACHARACH, Director of Tunes
CRAZY EDDIE, Embezzlement Manager
KATHERINE HARRIS, Natrat Recount Manager 
ANDREW CARNEGIE, Online Editor 
AURA LEE MORRISON, Production Manager 
OPTIMUS PRIME, Stupid Body President 
SYED THE DUCK, Filler Editor 
JACK DANIELS, Personnel Manager 
SOMBRERO MAN, Panhandler 
SLOTH FRATELLI, Shitface 
ANTHONY J. SCALI, The Commish 
ELTON JOHN, Candle Up My Ass 
VINCENT LAGUARDIA GAMBINI III, Lawyer 
BRENDA AND EDDIE, The Popular Steadies
LAZY EDITORS 
Michael Bolton, Bill Lumbergh, Dave Thomas, 
Ferdinand Magellan, Greg Brady, Kevin Rabbitt, John 
Stossell, Tonya Harding, Pamela Lee Anderson
Pagus Fourns
Albert Horwitz/Art Editor
Death threats
go. They are rarely, if ever, in Pittsburgh because of all the_________. Thus, why
plural noun
should we care about this?
The University has made a______mistake with this deal. The deadline of
adjective
lern 2 spell stewpit ppl
Editor:
i picked up a cpy of th December 4th 
issu of the Natrat, i was shoked at the hor- 
rrible qualityof the editing.. There were 
typod, mispelings, and I am psitive that 
all the quotetion marks were not curled.
One example is: in the article "Top two 
floors of WEan hall misteriosly vanish" , 
there shold have been a comma, in 
between the ,fifth and sixthh word of the 
last paragaraph.
Another example, in the second 
occurenec of the word "its" in the third 
paragrpah, the word should hve been 
"it's"
I am schocked and apaled. Your copy e 
ditor oviously didnot try to fix any of the 
8,924 errors taht I found. He obviusly has 
no grasp of the english language; you 
shoudl firre him as soonas possible. If this 
newspaper wishe to be respeectable it 
sholud seek and editor who is good at 
editng.
Scott Mosely
First-year student
Unprofessional Writing
Read EatMe or face death
Editor:
It appears that The Natrat, Carnegie 
Mellon’s official student “newspaper,” is 
breaking even more records in unprofes­
sionalism and incompetence. Every 
Monday, the campus community is sub­
jected to their weekly dose of misrepre­
sented information. In the December 4th 
issue, I was the latest victim of their hor­
rendous journalistic practices in the arti­
cle "Students Voice Their Concern over 
Renaming of DH 2210 to Eat ‘n’ Park 
Auditorium".
The first instance of misinformation 
occurred in the "quotation" in the third 
paragraph. I told The Natrat that, 
“Corporate sponsorship is a problem for 
the entire university.” But the editors 
(unsurprisingly) manipulated the article 
to the best way they see fit by printing: 
“Corporate sponsorship is a dilemma for 
the entire university.” Reading this mis­
quote of my words was bad enough; but
much to my dismay, that was only the 
beginning of my humiliation in front of 
the entire school.
No less than two sentences later, the 
article stated that “I hate this shitty 
school.” Granted, I did happen to say that 
toward the end of the interview, but I did­
n’t think our misguided paper would 
actually stoop to such a low level to print 
such an empty statement.
William Lumbergh
5th-Year Junior
Engineer and Computer Electricaling
Stop killing baby things
Editor:
I am writing in response to last week's 
appalling December 4 Letter to the Editor 
tided, “Science justifies abortion,” which 
was a reply to the Letter to the Editor 
“Pro-Choice proponents use fuzzy math” 
that appeared in the November 20th 
issue, the issue that contained the dis­
turbing “Fetuses, like Dallas Cowboys 
fans, are not human” Letter to the Editor 
response for that November 13th Letter to 
the Editor entitied “Pro-Lifers disagrees” 
disagreement with the November 6th 
Letter to the Editor “Pro-Lifers are wack- 
jobs” which refutes the argument present­
ed on October 30 in the Letter to the 
Editor “Abortion doctors are ass clowns” 
denial of the reasoning in the October 16 
“You’re wrong” Letter to the Editor, a 
response to the October 9 “I’m right” 
Letter to the Editor over a column called 
“Abortion sucks” that appeared in the 
October 2 issue of this paper.
Anyway, I disagree.
Cletus the Fetus
Pre-freshman, Biological Sciences
Where’s the love?
Editor:
Gat any change maaaan? God bless 
you man.
Sombreo Man
Panhandler
Natrat quality questioned
Editor:
There are sever problims with the qual­
ity of your paper. Yinz have bad grammar 
and your story content sux. And your 
copy staff and stuff can’t edit artikles. 1 
wish you would get a good copy staff 
among other stuff n’at.
Michael Mustafa
Editor-in-chief,' the Shit News
[Editor’s note: Get bent.]
Beauty and the Bitch
Editor:
Let’s be frank - your newspaper is a 
joke. Along those lines, what is the deal 
with University Pravda editor Dawn Hell's 
mustache? It’s obvious that he lacks the 
grooming capabilities of the devilishly 
handsome former President Rabbi Bobby. 
Not only did he guide this pathetic school 
from the depths of hell to being on of the 
greatest places in the world, but he 
had one fine mustache. It’s about time 
you started showing Rabbi Bobby the 
respect he deserves!
Mrs. Rabbi Bobby
Homewrecker
[Editor’s note: In the August 31, 19% 
issue of The Natrat; three photos were pub­
lished illustrating that damn fine mus­
tache. Being an unbiased bastion of jour­
nalistic integrity, the Natrat completely 
agrees with your sentiments.]
Greeks get geeky
Editor:
Your publication failed to report on the 
positive development within the Greek 
community, the first annual mid-term 
study night at the Alpha Chumpa Male 
house on October 13, 2000. This event 
provides the members of ACM the oppor­
tunity to study and you guys don’t even 
care. Thanks for nothing.
Jacques Markis
ACM President
I like nuts I like Coconuts I like them alot!?!.
by Mac Adamia
Hi150 H/L/o3b ys5ab
Nuts are good, yes. Ummm yeah, if 
anyone wants to send nuts to the Natrat 
office that would be cool. Yeah. Ummm 
yeah.
So one time I was in this place, right,
and like I saw this thing and it was cool. 
Yeah. So I like nuts alot.
Have you ever seen a chimpanzee in a 
buffalo stampede. Well I have.
I like nuts, umm yeah.
Why do people say wassssssuuuuuuuu- 
uuuuuuuup. Do they think they are 
funny. They are not and it makes me want 
to hurt them crack and mash and break
bones and things.
Umm yeah, so I like nuts alot especially 
Coconuts, in fact Tha Natrat put me in 
charge of being the Chief coconut treat 
yeah so. Umm cocounts are good 
send me coconuts if you have them.
So now I’m going to jump this story t° 
another page for the heck of it.
No more no more no more no more.
FROM NUTZ, PAGE 5 BITCH
You all do not understand my power. I 
am the king of nuts I can make them all
destroy you like the attack of the killer 
tomatoes. Fear me. Fear my nutty 
power.
I think nuts are some of the greatest 
things in the world right now.
e1Lbab/s waL ban5g o/ r35gb1/og 
0//M1gi D/sbaMg. S5 Ma3mig ab u/3s 055lM1
See NUTZ, The other [

---------------------------------------------------

THE WAT5ÏAT • DECEMBER 11, 20005
]Viore bitching from losers
Police baffled by death of Natrat columnist
Sean Minus, weekly Natrat columnist and noted philan­
thropist, narcotics dealer, organized crime figure and pimp, 
was slain last night outside of his Morewood residence. Just 
after 3:00 am, campus police responded to a call and arrived 
to see the sophomore writing major’s dismembered corpse 
scattered around the fraternity quad.
"We managed to salvage most of him. But those cute little 
squirrels looked so cold and hungry, so we fed them some 
unimportant parts," said Officer Eugene F. Hansley.
Upon questioning several witnesses, authorities deter­
mined that several high-ranking university officials, mem­
bers of various women’s groups, the entire Computer Science 
department, A1 Gore and a homeless man were responsible 
for the murder.
"They waited for him outside and as soon as he was out 
the door, they done jumped him," claimed Guido Paprikash,
a witness who asked not to be identified.
Minus, who is best known for his self-proclaimed "side 
splitting" humor column, "But Seriously..." was pronounced 
dead on the scene, but was flown to UPMC for "kicks" accord­
ing to the helicopter pilot.
"In all honesty, we just wanted to make sure that bastard 
was dead," stated Emergency Medical Technician Eddie 
Frump. "All he ever does is bitch and moan, so we figured 
nobody wanted him around. If he had come to, we probably 
just would have tossed him out of the chopper," added 
Frump.
Police have elected not to pursue any action against 
the suspects, as Minus’ family has refused to press 
charges. Additionally, Campus Police funds were recent­
ly cut in order to more sufficiently fund campus construc­
tion.
"We’re not really that bothered by all of this," Minus’ 
mother said in a phone interview this morning, "We don’t 
have to worry about trying to pay his tuition, and it’s one less 
mouth to feed on holidays."
"It’d be a real shame if someone important had gotten 
killed," said sophomore James Graff, Mintus’ roommate and 
fraternity brother. "But at least now I have the whole room to 
myself."
Minus is survived by both parents, two siblings and scores 
of illegitimate children scattered throughout the greater 
Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Funeral services will be held at 
the hillside campus amphitheater next Tuesday at 7:00 pm. 
Flowers, candy, summons, cartons of cigarettes, cases of beer 
and large sums of unmarked twenty dollar bills stuffed in 
paper bags can be left behind the Puma Hole-in-the-wall Inn 
on Forbes Avenue.
Diety reflects on experiences at useless CMU
by God
; Fc5L1aM b/ bi5 tabsab
Transcribed from early Hebrew: "Ah, 
CMU. Yep, well it was a while back I tell you. 
They were still playing those damn bagpipes 
though. I guess that’s a tradition that never 
dies. Oh if I had only followed through on 
that urge to prevent the bagpipe from devel­
oping into an actual Western instrument 
over the years...ah well. What can you do 
after the fact? Well, yes I guess I can do 
! whatever I want! I’m God! Hahahahaha. 
i Well, I guess I try to have my limits though. 
Anyway, so yeah CMU was a great experi­
ence for me. I was a computer science major 
of course. Even though CMU wasn’t as rec- 
' ognized at the time for computer science we 
! still had a really decent program. I remem­
ber I had that that amusing character Klaus
as a teacher for several courses. Always 
threatening to "find you and break you in 
half!!!" if you did not do the assignment the 
way he wanted. <chuckle> Of course, being 
omnipotent I could have easily broken him 
in half, but trying to get a college education 
without creating another major religion like 
I accidentally did 2000 years ago, one has to 
keep a low profile. I also remember a certain 
math teacher, Juan Shaffer was his name? 
Yes I think so. I had to use my all-powerful 
Wisdom quite a few times on his tests; they 
were quite difficult. It began to annoy him 
that I always managed to do well despite the 
fact that he felt I wasn’t "on a deep intellec­
tual journey." Well why should I be? I’m God. 
I’m hanging around on earth for kicks. Even 
though I did try to impress him a few times 
by writing my homework in Hebrew. But 
that didn’t seem to do wonders. I still only 
got a B. For no reason. That was the only B I
ever got. And I’m God-1 did pretty freakin’ 
well in all the courses I took. But no, he did­
n’t like me so I got a B. Anyway, yeah so the 
courses were pretty good. The students were 
a little eccentric but I like them that way. 
Never had a girlfriend or anything, because I 
don’t really know how to deal with stuff like 
that. I try to remain impartial. Like, what if I 
met some nice girl and started really liking 
her and then thought "well that was the 
wrong thing to do < insert girlfriend’s name 
here> but I like you, so your sins are forgiv­
en." I might get carried away. So I just dis­
guised myself as an antisocial nerd and the 
issue never came up. Anyway, the job fair 
thing seems to work out pretty well for the 
computer science majors here, and I landed 
myself a great job after graduation. After I 
made my first billion, I decided I had had 
enough fun for one lifetime and ascended 
into heaven. Right now I’m doing some free-
lance work on world peace, interesting pun­
ishments for horrid high school gym teach­
ers, and the like. Little projects, you know. 
Just to keep myself busy. Every now and 
then I check out CMU, just to reminisce, or I 
start paying attention to the prayers of CMU 
students. For some reason most of them 
keep praying that either: they will suddenly 
be able' to live without sleep, or for the Hub 
to be demolished. The opportunity, unfortu­
nately, hasn’t come up for me yet to make it 
seem like an accident though. Alas. Be 
patient. CMU still seems to be an interesting 
place though. A lot of hard core coders, a lot 
of computers, but -unfortunately a lot of 
bitchy girls. A word to the wise: stop using 
the male:female ratio to get away with hav­
ing annoying personalities! It won’t work out 
in the end. Anyway, I guess that’s all I have 
to say. Are you putting this in the Bible or are 
you going to edit it out like I asked?"
One putrid bureau bought umpteen quite speedy Jabberwockies.
by Five speedy
Fc5L1aM b/ bi5 tabsab
Quark telephoned two fountains.
. ' Five quite angst-ridden Jabberwockies 
. 'partly quickly abused umpteen silly sub­
ways. Two televisions annoyingly bought 
orifices, even though umpteen subways tele­
phoned two schizophrenic cats.
One extremely speedy Macintosh sacri­
ficed the mostly purple trailer. One televi­
sion quickly tastes the almost silly poisons. 
One pawnbroker sacrificed umpteen purple 
dwarves, however one botulism noisily tick­
led Afghanistan, because two aardvarks 
marries umpteen quite irascible trailers. One 
mostly schizophrenic wart hog bought pur­
ple tickets.
Five Jàbberwockies partly comfortably 
fights two bourgeois dwarves, and umpteen 
1 sheep gossips. Minnesota quickly auctioned 
off two quite progressive orifices, however 
' the almost purple Macintoshes tastes two 
•progressive dogs. One purple fountain 
laughed, but bureaux gossips drunkenly, 
' even though Batman extremely easily 
'untangles five putrid televisions, and two
¦ obese botulisms grew up partly quickly, even
¦ though the schizophrenic fountains auc­
tioned off one quixotic subway, however 
umpteen tickets sacrificed two dogs, 
because the bureaux gossips, and five poi­
sons auctioned off televisions, although five 
silly trailers fights purple wart hogs, because 
two silly botulisms telephoned five quixotic
Klingons. One almost silly bureau perused 
schizophrenic elephants, but five lamp- 
stands fights umpteen subways, although 
two poisons cleverly untangles Afghanistan. 
Umpteen dwarves grew up. Five slightly 
putrid mats towed umpteen quite schizo­
phrenic fountains, because two slightly pur­
ple botulisms kisses the extremely angst-rid- 
den bureaux.
Minnesota tickled progressive botulisms. 
The partly schizoBatman lamely marries ele­
phants. Five Jabberwockies easily tele­
phoned schizophrenic poisons. The obese 
Jabberwockies lamely tastes one schizo­
phrenic Macintosh, then five very angst-rid­
den Klingons fights umpteen purple 
Macintoshes. One botulism perused five 
bourgeois trailers. The chrysanthemum ran 
away easily, although wart hogs fights five 
quite obese subways. Two slightly irascible 
aardvarks gossips, however botulisms 
laughed:
The quixotic Jabberwocky fights five 
putrid bureaux, yet umpteen botulisms quite 
comfortably auctioned off five very silly 
Macintoshes, even though one almost pro­
gressive Klingon fights Afghanistan, howev­
er umpteen obese Jabberwockies ran away, 
although the extremely purple botulism 
laughed, because two sheep cleverly bought 
silly chrysanthemums, and Batman almost 
noisily sacrificed five speedy subways, 
although Minnesota slightly comfortably 
auctioned off two very putrid televisions. 
Umpteen pawnbrokers gossips, because five 
trailers fights umpteen bureaux, yet the
pawnbrokers extremely quickly abused 
umpteen bureaux.
Two purple televisions easily towed one 
fountain. Mostly putrid televisions perused 
umpteen angst-ridden mats. Two quixotic 
fountains telephoned the extremely schizo­
phrenic mats, and umpteen dogs laughed, 
yet two partly quixotic bureaux telephoned 
one cat, even though two schizophrenic 
Jabberwockies almost drunkenly kisses the 
dwarf, but Quark grew up. One irascible 
television marries five obese pawnbrokers. 
The orifices comfortably bought two aard­
varks, yet five partly putrid Jabberwockies 
untangles silly orifices, then the progressive 
dogs mostly lamely tastes two obese 
Jabberwockies, yet five lampstands bought 
one almost angst-riddèn bureau. The dogs 
fights partly silly aardvarks. Umpteen 
speedy Klingons mostly cleverly sacrificed 
televisions. One putrid subway abused 
almost angst-ridden chrysanthemums, but 
umpteen subways very lamely towed two 
tickets, yet Minnesota auctioned off five bot­
ulisms. The bureau incinerated umpteen 
chrysanthemums, because one silly pawn­
broker partly noisily fights Klingons. Five 
televisions abused umpteen quite progres­
sive dogs, and two obese sheep telephoned 
five wart hogs. Irascible elephants towed 
umpteen progressive chrysanthemums.
Silly cats marries five bureaux. Umpteen 
irascible Klingons perused one television, 
but Batman kisses silly poisons. Umpteen 
mostly putrid wart hogs abused 
Afghanistan, and the trailer easily kisses two
botulisms. One cat laughed drunkenly.
The Macintoshes grew up. Extremely 
angst-ridden dogs mostly easily marries five 
putrid pawnbrokers, because the poison sac­
rificed Minnesota. One irascible dog bought 
five progressive dwarves, yet umpteen 
bureaux ran away, because two poisons 
comfortably tickled the irascible wart hogs, 
although one aardvark lamely marries 
Afghanistan.
phrenic aardvarks quite noisily abused 
two quixotic poisons, although the purple 
aardvarks gossips. One television lamely 
auctioned off five obese trailers. Umpteen 
cats tastes Afghanistan, and irascible 
bureaux abused five aardvarks, even though 
quixotic sheep easily incinerated two putrid 
poisons, however angst-ridden fountains 
comfortably perused two poisons, then ori­
fices abused five wart hogs, even though ele­
phants gossips, and two tickets ran away 
slightly easily. Umpteen quite speedy 
dwarves kisses tickets. Five bureaux 
laughed.
The slightly irascible aardvarks perused 
five partly quixotic Jabberwockies, but one 
dog incinerated two schizophrenic wart 
hogs. Umpteen dwarves abused slightly silly 
trailers. Tokyo cleverly bought five chrysan­
themums, although almost speedy pawn­
brokers grew up, even though two progres­
sive botulisms perused wart hogs. Five obese 
trailers laughed, because two Macintoshes 
drunkenly auctioned off the chrysanthe­
mum. Bourgeois aardvarks fights umpteen 
sheep.
NUTZ YaTl yes eat them eat all Ya’ll cool
From NUTZ, the other page
Psyyyyyyyyyyyyychhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhe! The article is really on the other page.
Made you look, dork I knew you’d fall for it. Whil;e I’m at it gotcher nose. Hehe don’t we all 
love these stu[pid jokes.
See Nutz.page 4
THE VLAT5IAT
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since ¡906
SENIOR CITIZENS 
Bob Dole, Ronald Reagan, Abe 
Simpson, Methusula
STAPHWRITERS 
Garth Algar, John 'Bluto' Blutarsky, 
Fat Bastard, Conan the Barbarian, 
Wayne Campbell, Short Dick, Bala 
Gee, A1 Kaholic, Dirty Sanchez, Han 
Solo, Felicity Shagwell, Dan
Summers, Long Schlong Silver, Art 
Vandelay Drew Peacock, Dylan 
Weed, Eve Hill, Gabe Barr, Darth 
Vader, Debbie Does Everything, 
Harry Weiner, Holden McGroin, 
Hugh Jass, Igor Beaver, Izzy 
Cumming, Mini Me, Jack Daniels
FART
Art C. Fartsy, Number Two 
FILLER
Sal T. Penuz, Seymour Butts, 
Richard Cranium, Michael Toris, 
Megan Bacon, Bruce Springsteen, 
Mary Juana, Juanna Bea, Jacques 
Strapp, Hugh Beeotch, Haywood 
Jablowmee, Gene Pool
PHOTO 
Fat Albert, Kelsey Grammer
DUCKROOM 
Lou Sirr, Max E. Pad, Ophelia 
Titzoff, Phyllis Schlong, Stu Padasso, 
Titus Balsac, Ty Tass, Sam Manilla, 
Cherry Poppins, Milton Waddams, 
Bob Sllydell
REPRODUCTION 
Robin Spitz Swallows, Jenny Tull, 
Joanna Hand, Jed I. Knight, Ilene 
Dover
COPY COPY 
Filler, Filler, Filler, Filler, Filler, 
Filler, Filler, Filler, Filler, Filler, 
Filler, Filler
JUNIOR STAFF 
Ivana Tinkle, Dean Vernon Wormer, 
Alf Abet, Alotta Fagina, Anita Bath, 
Bryce Tag, Candice B. Fureal, Bill 
Lowney, Chewbacca, Sal Ami, Cy 
Kosis, Mel Keethhts, Michael Toris, 
Mike Ocksmall, Mya Buttreaks, 
Stacey Rhect, Wayne Kerr, Susan 
Allview, Wendy Thomas
Welcome to the box that no one ever reads. 
Like most of what you do read, The Natrat 
is a lie. It is published whenever people get 
around to doing it, but was originally done 
by people who are probably so old that they 
are dead by now. It is not free so if you did­
n’t pay for it, you are going to go jail. Watch 
your back. The editorials, columns, political 
cartoons are the view of no one. The so- 
called "balanced and objective" pieces 
reflect the slant and bias of the individual 
who is using that opportunity to achieve 
their hidden agenda. The Natrat reserves 
the right to be rude, obnoxious, and incon­
siderate. You have the right to just ignore it 
if you like. It is not suitable for any 
auidence. Letters to the Editor can be sub­
mitted if wish you to write something that 
will be ignored and never looked at. The 
Natrat reserves to blow their nose or wipe 
their ass with your Letter to the Editor. The 
Natrat reserves the right to randomly bold 
any words that it deems appropriate to bold.
Copyleft [ 2000 by The Natrat. Office: 
University Center Second Floor Men's 
Room, Stall 2. Phone: 412/555-1212. 
Sailing address: The Natrat/Jack-in-the- 
Box/Carnage Mellon University/The Pitts, 
PP 20000-0666.
Email: yourmother@andrew.cum.edu 
Funded in part by Intel.
Funded in part by your mother.
Funded in part by your stupid activities fee. 
All lefts reserved.
Big Al’s Porno Library 
ISSN#:6969-6969.
The Natrat is a member 
of the Ass. Press.CD
Some students feel that the proposed tuition increase is excessive and unwarranted.
To get to the bottom of this issue, we asked our favorite dictators.
What do you think of next year’s tuition hike?
A DICTATOR’S OPINION
Compiled by Harry Belafonte 
Photos by Hugh M. Hefner
Dr. Evil
Frickin’ Evil Doctor
“I think it’s evil. An evil tuition hike.
I like it.”
Fidel Castro
Senior
Ethics and Public Policy
“In my country, tuition is distributed 
among everyone.”
Saddam Hussein
Our Favorite Dictator
“ I can still send all 38 of my children 
there with all of the oil I steal from 
Kuwait”
Slobodan Milosevic
Dictator
“I hate politics.”
Hilary Clinton
Junior
New York Senator
"Fortunantly Chelsea went to an insti­
tution that doesn’t prove itself with 
tuition hikes.”

---------------------------------------------------

Spurts
II December 2000THE V1AT5LAT
Yanks’ Boss 
completes 
purchase of 
big leagues
New York (Ass. Press.) — Opening Major 
League Baseball’s annual winter meetings, 
New York Yankees owner George 
Steinbrenner has announced that he has 
•finalized the purchase of the other 29 
major league baseball teams.
While the deal appears to break several 
league rules, most prominently the statute 
prohibiting a single group from owning 
more than one club, Major League Baseball 
commissioner and former Milwaukee 
Brewers owner Bud Selig was thrilled to be 
part of the announcement.
“It was an easy decision, really,” Selig 
said. “The New York Yankees are clearly the 
future of baseball in America. Who’s going 
to let a silly thing like conflict of interest 
•stand in the way of progress?”
The radical plan took shape when 
-Steinbrenner’s efforts to sign every free 
-agent at the end of the 2000 baseball sea- 
; son was stymied by the Cleveland Indians’ 
announcement that the team had reached 
a deal with outfielder Ellis Burks.
“I’ve spent the better part of my years as 
owner holding down the salary cap in 
preparation for exactly this situation,” 
Steinbrenner said. “Then those #&$@ers 
over in Cleveland had to go and mess 
things up.”
Other managers who were reached for 
comment agreed with Selig’s endorsement 
of the deal. Montreal Expos owner Jeffrey 
Loria was one of the deal’s most outspoken 
supporters.
“Well, how the hell else were we going to 
make any money?” Loria said. Media 
mogul and Atlanta Braves owner Ted 
Turner was also a strong supporter of the 
plan.
“As an organization, we didn’t really 
need this deal,” Turner said. “But I was 
willing to go along with anything to get rid 
of those small-market whiners.”
Baseball purists, who were expected to 
be the group most opposed to 
Steinbrenner’s goal, surprisingly backed 
the deal as well.
“Let’s look at the facts,” one anonymous 
fan said. “The Yankees are the only team in 
the league with a worthwhile history. I 
mean, most of the other teams didn’t even 
have pinstripes on their uniforms. What 
was that all about?”
As part of the new structure, all teams 
will be required to switch to Yankees uni- 
' forms and merchandise. Existing pieces of 
non-Yankee memorabilia currently in 
! stores around the world will be burned. 
Jersey numbers retired by non-Yankees 
teams will no longer be recognized (with 
the exception of Jackie Robinson’s 42) but 
current members of the Hall of Fame will 
be allowed to maintain their current uni­
forms.
Clubs will be allowed to continue playing 
in their current stadiums, with the excep­
tions of the Red Sox in Boston’s Fenway 
Park and the White Sox in Chicago’s 
Wrigley Field, which will be razed immedi­
ately.
“Everyone knows Yankee Stadium is the 
best park ever built,” Steinbrenner said. 
“We couldn’t let people continue thinking 
there was any place that had as much of a 
history or more atmosphere.” Yankee stadi­
um was also named the permanent site for 
all future All-Star games and World Series 
games.
Rosters and coaching staffs will remain 
as is for all clubs, but Steinbrenner expects 
that situation to change within the next 10 
years.
“We’re pouring a lot of money into 
cloning research,” Steinbrenner said. “We 
expect to be able to equip every team with 
their own Joe Torre, Don Zimmer, Derek 
Jeter, and Mariano Rivera within the next- 
decade.”
In a related story, NBC has announced an 
exclusive television contract with the 
Steinbrenner organization for the next 50 
years. Exact terms of the deal were not dis­
closed at press time, but reportedly, the 
only games to be televised from now on 
will be those taking place at night in 
Yankee stadium.
In addition, Bob Costas was given the 
head broadcasters job, and was placed at 
the head of the Yankees public relations 
staff, a position he had unofficially held 
'.since 1985.
“This is just a dream come true for me,” 
Costas said. “Even though I’m originally 
from St. Louis and, by rights, should be a 
life-long Cardinals fan, I’ve never made a 
secret out of my feelings for the New York 
Yankees. In fact, throughout my career, I’ve 
attempted to express my feelings in all of 
my broadcasts, even when the Yankees 
weren’t playing.”
Crowd outnumbers athletes at football game!
Unprecedented event recognized by administration, athletes
by Bleech Erbum
/4ss. Istant
At the end of the day, when all counting 
was said and done... it had been con­
firmed. For the first time in Carnegie 
Mellon University’s brief history, the num­
ber of fans that attended a football game 
was greater than the number of athletes 
on the field itself.
“I wish I was working tickets for that 
game,” said athletic department student 
employee Fil Weinmeister. “I heard ticket 
commission was off the hook.”
Program sales were up as well. There 
was a 50 percent increase in programs 
sold, rising from its high average of 22 to 
an astounding 33.
Parking was temporarily a problem, as 
security guards forgot that there was a sec­
ond floor in the parking garage.
“Initially, I panicked when someone 
approached me and asked where there 
was alternate parking,” said security 
guard Don Juan. “Luckily, my partner 
remembered that there was another level 
directly above us for use if the first level 
ever became full.”
“I was so overwhelmed by the number 
of people in the stands that I momentarily 
forgot the first word of ‘The Star Spangled 
Banner,”’ said Burt Bacharach, who 
opened the game with his rendition of the 
national anthem.
Head coach Rich Lackner and the play­
ers -couldn’t be happier about this new 
trend in attendance. They are already 
claiming this event as a sort of “omen” for 
years to come.
“The record attendance is a sign of 
things to come,” predicted, coach Lackner. 
“Next season, we’re already fostering the
Not lots people at game. Nope. No happy, 
possibility of getting twice as many fans as 
athletes.”
Even the athletes are awed by the new­
found spotlight. Several of the players 
have commented on the feeling that hav­
ing more fans brings them.
“It’s so much cooler now,” said 28 year- 
old quarterback Olph Art. “I feel like I’m 
playing at Penn State or something.”
The Natrat even caught up with some of
No happy time. =( 
the fans who had not previously attended 
football games to find out why there is a 
sudden change.
“Football game?” commented one fan. “I 
was just coming because I heard there was 
50-cent popcorn.”
Unfortunately, the record-breaking 
attendance was only maintained for the 
first-half of the game, after which fans 
inexplicably began to leave.
Dai Juaverez/Picture Peoplji
“I have to head inside,” said one student! 
who was asked why he was leaving the; 
game. “I told myself I’d only get one hour 
of sunlight this week, and that time’s up.” 
Whatever the reasons for coming to thei 
game, there is no denying that this was a 
monumental event in Tartan football his­
tory. It was a special day that players andj- 
coaches won’t forget for the remainderof 
their lives.
Sports Briefs
Compiled by
Your Mother
NEWS
Hot Chats
Get AIM before you pick!
- 20s Love
- 30s Love
- Alone@Home
- Britney Spears
- Lesbian Chat
- Election Chat
- Romance Connection
- Burt Bacharach
For other hot chats, visit 
http://www.aol.com/aim/
New Windows AIM 4.3 - 
Available Now
The AOL Instant Messenger 
service is the No. 1 way to talk 
to your friends on the Internet
- and the best just got better!
We've added powerful new fea­
tures designed to make manag­
ing your time online more fun 
and convenient.
What's New in AIM 4.3:
Now do even more with the 
AOL Instant Messenger. New
dynamic features let you:
- Access your complete and 
combined buddy list from any 
computer
- Play online games against 
your AIM Buddies
Other Great Features in 
AIM 4.3:
Find out what over 64 million 
people already know: that AIM 
is the easiest way to...
- Receive instant alerts
- Send instant messages
- Share photos, pictures and 
sounds
- Enjoy live conversations 
online - FREE
- Chat with friends and family 
or people with similar interests
- Stay on top of the news and 
stocks
Easier, More Convenient 
Buddy List
Now we're making the AOL 
Instant Messenger Buddy List 
even easier and more conve­
nient! So you can always tell 
when friends and family are 
online, AOL Instant Messenger 
now lets you access your com­
plete and combined Buddy List 
from any computer you use — 
whether it's at home, work,-, 
school or even on the roada 
Best of all, with just a single,! 
Buddy List to keep track of, you* 
can access, update and. makei 
additions from any computer^ 
at any time.
Games are Back!
AOL Instant Messenger makes 
online head-to-head gaming 
easy. Use your buddy list to 
organize and launch your 
online gaming sessions. To ini­
tiate a game, highlight your 
opponent in your buddy list, 
select the "People" menu and 
choose "Play game with 
buddy..." It's that simple!
Sneak Previews
- Win 95/98/2000/NT Beta: 
www.aol.com/aim/winbeta.ht 
ml
- Mac Beta: 
www.aol.com/aim/macbeta.h 
tml
- Linux Beta:
www.aol.com/aim/Linlixbeta.
html
Note: Sneak Preview versions of 
AIM may not be as stable as 
Version 4.3.
assified
Travel
WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK 
WANT TO HAVE HELLUVA FUN 
DURING SPRING BRAKE CHECKING 
OUT ALL THE BOOM-BIGGITY 
HOTTIES BUT DON'T HAVE THE 
$$$$??? CALL MCMASTER TRAVEL 
AGENCY AT 454-BAHA-MENII!
For Sale
FLOWER for smidgeonhead, 
slippery white-foot, and all others 
interested. $414.95 or best offer.
Jock Strap. Used only 26 times. 
Not yet laundered, will include one
3 oz. packet of Surf taken from a 
Holiday Inn. Quick, act before it's 
sold!
Contact "The Prez". Male 
prostitute. I'll visit your 'Shady 
Side' night or day. 412-683-1292.
Opportunities
Beloved wife Jane the Goat miss­
ing. Reward 100 dollars if found.
'BABYSITTER' NEEDED! 8:30 AM-
4 PM — Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. 
54 year-old 'boy.' Must be non- 
smoker, own transportation, and 
over 18 (I can get you a spot in the 
Executive Lot, and a Police Escort.) 
Call me at work. 268-6684
CollegeClub.com needs some 
reps ASAP, and they want you!! 
Make $900,000,000,000,000 in 
only 20 minutes by merely hand­
ing out flyers and delivering 
unmarked suitcases to airport bath­
rooms! Call today, at 987-654- 
3210!
Single white male, interested in 
leather, apparatus exploration.
Looking for SWF, who has a great 
tolerance for pain. Smoker pre­
ferred, will clean lung out. 
Reponsible for supplying handcuffs 
and keys. Please call (412) 606- 
6955.
Intel seeking employees. Must 
be willing to work in UC basement.
CS Male seeking Dove soap bar. 
Previously engaged to Zest, but 
couldn't handle lathering commit­
ment. Seeks a once a month rela­
tionship.
Assified Rates
Some words........$10.00/wk
More words........$12.00/wk
Even more words...$15.00/wl<
MAIL TO:
The Natrat, Jack-in-the-Box, 
Carnage Mellon University, the 
Pitts, PP 20000-0666
• Assifieds must be paid for in 
gold or silver before the first 
day of printing
® On-campus departments 
and organizations may not 
purchase Assifieds
• Due by the day aftef the day 
after the day before the day th
Sports of DeathRunning the hardwood: Carnegie Mellon straps on the defense, 
causing its opponents ballhandling difficulties.THt mm
beefcake® a si drew

---------------------------------------------------

Arts? Living? Why?
IX December 2000
Lovitz’s Yellow Pages have just what 
you’re looking for, guaranteed
Cosby uses killer comedy routine 
to claim Mr. Fraternity crown
this question in our line of work, 
for it’s being'different that gets 
you noticed. We like to tell our 
customers that they can feel free 
to “Relax and shop,” exactly the 
tip on life the Pages gives on page 
942.
We thought we’d report some 
particularly interesting sections, 
like Investigative Photography on 
page 908. We wonder if they 
have hit men. No, wait. They’re 
“dedicated to the legal profes­
sion.” Page 942 advertises Mrs. 
Burke’s Classroom. Who is Mrs. 
Burke, and what exactly do peo­
ple learn in there? When we’re 
thinking of assuming a mission­
ary position, we spend a lot of 
time looking at the ceiling. Ours 
is getting a bit dingy, so we were 
glad for the listing on page 257 
for a ceiling cleaner. “Want it 
right? Call Tile Bright.” Maybe 
we will.
Our friend Giggles the Clown 
also has a listing, on page 411. 
Not only have we found her 
clients to be exciting, but her 
“Trunk of Junk” will knock your 
socks off, as well. To maintain 
our beautiful bods, we stop in at 
the Center for Vascular Medicine, 
which offers surgical and non- 
surgical treatment for “varicose 
veins, spider veins, leg and foot 
ulcers, facial lesions,” and, of 
course, painful, swollen legs. 
These last two, unfortunately,
happen to be occupational haz­
ards.
Lovitz has also included a 
“Green Pages” in his book, which 
includes coupons for Pittsburgh- 
area businesses. One that caught 
our attention was good for saving 
$17.50 to $30 per night at the 
Fort Pitt Motel. This motel fea­
tures private, heart-shaped 
whirlpools and is ideal for the 
business traveler.
We did find that Lovitz’s book 
was lacking in some areas, name­
ly adult entertainment. 
Scanning the index we saw that 
there was not one listing for pros­
titutes, strippers, phone sex, sex­
ual toys, or adult book and video 
stores, not to mention sexual 
healing. We’ll be contacting 
Lovitz to ensure that our startup 
company sets a precedent in this 
category. Be on the lookout for 
an ad from The Big O in the 2002 
Yellow Pages.
Overall, we give Jon Lovitz’s 
Yellow Pages a rating of Neat! 
Despite omitting several neces­
sary items, it did come in handy 
for providing product and service 
information. We recommend 
this book to consumers and pro­
fessionals alike. The Yellow 
Pages is also available online at 
www.bigyellow.com. So the next 
time you need guidance, just 
whip out your big yellow.
See YELLOW, page 10
by Clair Huxtable
C TMau5J lu k5M1L1a -agiaJ 
nRYri In a shocking turn of events this past 
¡Tv Saturday, Bill Cosby took Carnegie Mellon 
[£? audiences by surprise by winning the coveted 
g§*; title of “Mr. Fraternity 2000.” The charitable 
- competition, which involved fraternity broth- 
;l7 ers competing against each other in several 
•I* categories, was fierce, yet Cosby, who came in 
as the underdog, managed to prevail, 
ji j Although he lost disastrously in the categories 
'?j of formal wear, toga, beachwear, and question 
jw ' and answers, it was his witty comedy routine 
¿» in the talent section that eventually won him 
j/v-.the title. The Natrat caught up with Cosby 
fjf; later that evening as he celebrated his victory, 
B| and here’s what we learned:
“Bill’s a great guy,” fellow Gamma Omicron 
Sigma fraternity member Theo informed us. 
b? “Although I’m the only brother in this house, I 
1 t didn’t mind when Bill was selected over me to 
I I"; compete in the event. I look up to him, and he 
I; I always tries to teach me right from wrong.”
11: “Bill’s like a father figure to us,” commented
sorority sister Vanessa of Beta Upsilon. 
lit J Another sister, Rudy, agreed, noting: “It’s great 
~ having. him within the Greek system.
Sometimes he’ll just come up to you with a 
,f C , hearty ‘Hey, Hey, Hey!’ and you can’t help but 
Jove him.” Co-philanthropy chairs and other
sisters Denise and Sondra were busy with theiriiicr O
own lives and not available for comment.
Other Greek members were not so quick to 
agree, however. One fraternity member, who 
wished to remain anonymous, challenged this 
view, citing that oftentimes Cosby was absent 
from Panhellenic events, and when he did 
attend, it was though he was off in “a different 
world.” “I’d hardly agree that Bill’s a father fig­
ure,” our source revealed. “In fact, to the 
brothers here, he’s the archetypal ‘Ghost Dad’.”
Nonetheless, when we met up with Cosby 
himself we found him to be quite engaging, as 
he served Natrat staff and fellow Greek post­
competition partygoers his infamous recipe of 
Jell-O! shots. Ever congenial, he took the dis­
paraging remarks others had said about him in 
stride. “Kids say the darnedest things,” he 
informed us, continuing that when he was 
younger, his peers used to call him by his mid­
dle name, Albert, and tease him for his chubbi­
ness — something that he says made him 
stronger. Now, as an accomplished student 
and newly crowned Mr. Fraternity, Cosby says 
he’s having a great time and working closer 
towards his goals. One personal aim, he 
revealed to us, is to establish a company in his 
name, perhaps in the entertainment sector.
This summer, Cosby has an internship with a 
personal medical practice in New York, which 
he looks forward to before returning to CMU in 
the fall. For now, however, he’s content just 
holding the prestigious title of Mr. Fraternity
2000. Bill Cosby absolutely scared the hell out of me in his blockbuster film Ghost Dad. ‘Cause he was a ghost and stuff.
¿ Concerned students 
change nothing
by Shaft
No5 UaJ w/bi5s:'ci.! • .. ¦
" Hours of painstaking 
' ’'research, hunger strikes, sit- 
^1 ins, and assorted protests. All
- of this and more have com- 
|iJ0 prised the efforts of a small 
-group- -CMU--students, 
H£J ¦ who, despite having been in 
the protesting business for 
the past eight years, have 
failed to make a single bit of 
«£'> difference.
3;I; In a run of events surpris- 
o* ing to no one but themselves, 
23Oveevery business or political 
•i i group they have ever spoken 
n ( out against has summarily 
,1-^ignored the group. “Most 
b* ‘ -people would probably get 
rhi .discouraged with a track 
record like ours,” group 
leader Enrique Mylifsux said. 
“But we know that by being 
: out there every day, we are 
¦r. making a difference.”
Reached for comment, a 
representative of the group’s 
rl.: latest target was somewhat 
less than concerned about 
the protests. “With a track
record like theirs, who 
wouldn’t be encouraged? As 
long as they’re out there 
every day, there’s no room 
for real protesters who could 
make a difference.”
Foremost among the 
group’s credibility problems 
seems to be their inability to 
choose arname for their orga­
nization. Various members 
of the group gave answers 
ranging from “Carnegie 
Mellon Eco-Tartans” to 
“Green Peace.” Along with 
preventing the group from 
attaining any sort of public 
recognition, the lack of a 
name has proved to be a 
major stumbling block in 
receiving recognition as a 
legitimate student organiza­
tion.
“Stupid Senate has all 
sorts of convoluted rules you 
have to follow before they’ll 
give you money,” Mylifsux 
said. “Maybe we’ll protest 
them next.”
When pressed for reasons 
why their efforts continually 
fall short, however, the 
See LOSERS, page ??Look at these clowns. Yeah, a lot of big corporations are going to be real interested in a bunch of communist kids who listen to Rage Against the Machine too much.
by Bam Bam Bigelow
Cob5sL/ob1o5obaM HiaDc1/o 
& Bizzi Beeler
Zgg1gbaob Zgg1gb5s
As women who provide service 
to our fellow human beings, 
we’re considering promoting our 
business, The Big O, in the Yellow 
Pages, so we decided to do a 
thorough review of the book. 
After all, a 1995 Gallup poll 
reports that “when people look in 
the Verizon Yellow Pages, they 
end up buying 60.5% of the 
time.” We’re not sure, but we 
hear the author of this must-read 
is Jon Lovitz. We plan to contact 
Lovitz soon for our addition in 
the next volume.
Lovitz has provided a guide to 
Pittsburgh, which lists area 
attractions, maps, and recre­
ational activities in the region. 
The Internet guide includes pop­
ular Pittsburgh websites. As two 
women-on-the-go, we found the 
site for Magee Women’s Hospital 
quite convenient; and we were 
also intrigued by Buffo, the 
World’s Strongest Clown, at 
www.buffo.com, which inciden­
tally shows Buffo ripping apart a 
copy of Lovitz’s book!
The Yellow Pages offers philo­
sophical questions, such as page 
941’s compelling “What makes 
you different?” We often ponder

---------------------------------------------------

8THE KATflAT » DECEMBER 11, 2000
Gordon Gordon speaks speaks to to the the Natrat Natrat
'“~by Pink Slip
£ -No Longer with the Natrat
TT: What is your name?
GG: Gordon Gordon.
TT: Thanks. What is your last name?
GG: Gordon Gordon.
¿10 , TT: Who did you support in the recent Presidential 
-Huelection?
jiuo< , GG: Ralph Nader Ralph Nader.
)iju i TT: So you’re with the Green Party?
¡•Ihitl.) GG: Winona LaDuke Winona LaDuke.
raa23gd TT: Well then, how do you see the courts making a 
?, decision about the elections?
, . , . GG: Ginsberg Ginsberg.
sM,;, TT: The Supreme Court? Why Ruth Ginsberg?
.' • GG: Starts with a G. Starts with a G.(¦> <
^ow ^on2 ^ave y°u been with Carnegie Mellon 
'iab,jand what brought you here?
^¡‘ GG: Since 1900. Since 1900. Money, honey.
| bVv ¦- TT: You are affiliated with Planned Giving. What 
•.. led you to that department of the University?
' GG: Money, honey.
TT: I see. What keeps you with Alumni Relations?
GG: The brunch lunch. The brunch lunch.
TT: Well, I suppose that’s good that they give the 
staff some free food. I know most students are all 
about that here. What do they normally have?
GG: Pizza. Pizza.
TT: Have you ever heard of MENSA?
GG: They concluded that my vocabulary was
beyond expansive. They concluded that my vocabu­
lary was beyond expansive.
TT: How did you develop such an expansive vocab­
ulary?
GG: Word of the Day paper plates. Word of the Day 
paper plates.
TT: Where can I find Word of the Day paper plates?
GG: Planned Giving. Planned Giving.
TT: Planned Giving doesn’t have reusable plates?
GG: They say we need to expand our vocabulary. 
They say we need to expand our vocabulary.
TT: By how much?
GG: Until the next set of plates are released. Until 
the next set of plates are released.
TT: How did you get the name Gordon Gordon?
GG: My mother’s favorite song is "Sugar, Sugar."
My mother’s favorite song is "Sugar, Sugar." But she 
liked "Gordon, Gordon" better. But she liked "Gordon, 
Gordon" better.
TT: What’s your favorite song?
GG: "Sherry, Sherry." "Sherry, Sherry."
TT: So what do you think’s going to happen during 
the university’s next 100 years?
GG: Well well, obviously obviously the the first first 
100 100 were were very very successful successful, 
and and I I think think the the University University 
will will continue continue to to grow grow and and 
expand expand.
TT: What do you like to do with your free time?
GG: I enjoy siding skiing, writing writing, and 
spending time with my family spending time with my 
family.
TT: Gordon,- if you could have dinner with any per­
son, living or dead, who would it be?
GG: Johnny Rotten. Johnny Rotten. The Sex Pistols 
rock the Sdx Pistols rock.
TT: One more question, Gordon. What major 
improvement would you like to see come to the cam­
pus?
GG: What the hell are you doing? Why are you writ­
ing evey word twice? Oh, now I see. Your newspaper 
is a waste of my time. (Throws table and leaves.)
Those crazy kids
LOSERS, from B1
group can offer few ideas. “I really don’t under­
stand it,” Mylifsux said. “We poster as often as AB 
does for their lecture series, and always put out 
petitions at the same time as senate elections.”
“Some days, you feel like the student body just 
doesn’t care, but then you look around at the 
twelve of us, and you know everyone else cares 
just as deeply as we do,” he added.
Notable protests the group has led include a 
boycott of Heinz ketchup and several marches to 
the plant itself. “Heinz is definitely one of our big 
targets right now,” Mylifsux said. “We’re looking 
to have them change the color of their product to 
something more neutral. When spread on meat 
products, the bright red blatantly represents the 
blood of the helpless, slaughtered animals.”
Also under fire from the group are several local 
businesses, including every themed restaurant in 
the Pittsburgh area. “Any place that serves just 
Chinese food or just Indian food is obviously 
racist,” Mylifsux said.
Though they have been approached by larger, 
better known environmentalist groups over the 
years, the CMU chapter prefers to keep its indi­
viduality. “Sure, the big groups get national 
press and actual funding,” Mylifsux said. “But 
you have to keep your focus on all environmen­
tal travesties, no matter how small. Besides, if I 
see one more ‘Save the Pandas’ sticker, I think I’ll 
puke.”
Heinz/It’s America's Favorite Ketchup
Rock Over London: The fattest man on campus and a friend enjoy Wesley Willis’ recent concert.
Art is a big, fat, pretentious turkey
. by Regular Joe
¦iv Just a Guy
itv These days, numerous societies and groups are 
•r,4ecidated to funding “the arts” and preserving “cul- 
„ ,£ure.” These groups need to be eliminated so no nor- 
J, pjal guy like me ever has to pretend to like inanely pre­
tentious art forms to seem cultured. 
n, Could anyone possibly like opera? How? Women 
shrieking in a foreign language for hours on end for no 
apparent reason? That has got to be the worst way to 
spend time outside of the emergency room.
M What about paintings? They’re old. Lots of them 
[lr)’don’t look like anything. Some modern art has only
one color. The majority don’t even look cool. If you 
like looking at art, I’ve got some paint that needs 
watched whil it dries on my wall.
Classical music anyone? Nap, anyone? Memo to 
Beethoven: come back when you’ve got some beats 
and some lyrics. We appreciate it.
Ballet? No. Dancing without pelvis thrusting, as far 
as this columnist is concerned, really hasn’t earned 
the name “dancing.”
Theater? Yeah, I remember the 1800’s, too. 
Attention, Broadway: we have these things called 
“movies” now. I’ll.loan you $9 to check one out.
If you are a patron of the arts and support any of 
these and have been offended, then put down your 
wine and monocle and shoot some basketball. Now.
Carnegie Almanac
i;’ 50 YEARS AGO - December 4, 1950 - The most
. recent set of extra-terrestrial visitors, known as the 
; >.Boyz, were welcomed to the University from Planet D.
•y Oinkniversity President Jack Daniels called the visit a 
¡.>r-i worthwhile research opportunity for people to broad-
• isf ien their horizons, break away from tradition, and be 
, jbn«respectful of the inherent equality among world popu- 
illations. Daniels said that while male aliens were able 
^is to conduct experiments on campus, female aliens 
^should remain in the UFO’s kitchen, where they
i. belong.
_a > Touched by the beautiful sculpture paying tribute to 
r:ii Carnegie Tech’s first President, Artsy Fartsy 
i j n ¡Hammerhead, alien leader Heavy D released a toxic 
emission. Since the incident destroyed the coating on 
..qnthe sculpture, authorities were called in to handle the 
i ROlsituation. After MIB agents Kay and Jay flashed their
11 neuralyzer, bystanders were reminded that the nose of 
an- ,the sculpture was shinier than the rest of it due to years 
j; Rrtpf students rubbing it for good luck during finals. They 
.. students laughed, saying that that story sounded just 
onabout as fabricated as the one about the tradition of 
.'.painting a fence.
", | 2D BEERS LATER -Woww. I’ms mashe’d. Really. 
iniNos hite! I AM, I DRANK2 5 beers Ths firl was there 
_ 'flnd man shewsa hto! Wheres my asber5eer. Ien\edm 
rrupre never. Really. I want to wdirnlc mre deer. Iam hte 
^'Mggets fdurnki isn the wrlodl Mui balls itech. I thikn 
neesd to tkae al eak.l m noew tjink i needs top ike .. 
wate... i thjjnk i needs to pillce. harrrggrghgh ff... 
ourch.... fo yuou wna twot drink ay bee\r.3 i wankttos 
f..’„hooktupwithsometone.. someonbewantro-hokkupp 
ri wiyhme? lEtssingasogn... sngsing sing asong. 25 bit- 
! ties of beere on tgeh walkk., 25 beers ou4t of the 
1 wl=allk. imde gognging to pass out nw. byE!
10 YEARS AGO - December 6, 1990 - A manual 
recount was ordered by canvassing board Aye Pi Oh 
’after an initial count showed , that there was a tie for 
°?the Stupid Body President position. Counting well into
¦ r'"?the night, the first recount showed that indeed, the
- '' 'original count of one to one was correct. Presumably,
each candidate had voted for himself. With two votes 
cast, this election marks the highest voter turn out in 
the past 10 years.
Aye Pi Oh called a special meeting to discuss the mat­
ter, which no one attended. The situation resolved 
itself when they independently decided that take 
themselves out of the running, realizing that Stupid 
Senate doesn’t do anything anyway. Although it is a 
constitutional violation to not have a Stupid Body 
President, Aye Pi Oh decided that no one would notice 
anyway.
FIVE YEARS AGO - December 8, 1995 - As usual, 
nothing interesting happened. Students continued to 
study, play on the Internet, and look at porn. At night 
they drank beer and puked. The sounds of Hootie and 
the Blowfish emanated from dorms throughout cam­
pus. People slept through their classes and ate crappy 
food. They bitched about everything.
ONE YEARS AGO - December 10, 2000 - For the 
first time in twelve years, the weather in Pittsburgh 
was nice. The previous 40 days and 40 nights of rain 
and snow subsided and sunny days swept the clouds 
away. Local media scrambled to cover the event and 
were forced to create new graphics to represent the 
“sunny day” situation that was occurring. Sunglasses 
on the sun picture were present in the graphics used by 
six out of seven of the Pittsburgh’s major news outlets. 
Previously, cloudy, partly cloudy, rain, and snow were 
the only stock graphics they kept on file. The event 
preempted some other major Pittsburgh news stories 
of the day, including the daily update on highway con­
struction, the latest from elementary school football, 
and run-down of the parking tickets issued during the 
day.
Students at Carnegie Mellon celebrated the rare 
weather event by going to the library to study. When 
asked about the event after the rain commenced, nine 
out of ten students said that had not noticed that the 
sun was out, nor did they care.
Compiled by
Art Vandelay
Wheaties/Breakfast of Champions'Rock On Chicago: The fattest man on campus and a friend enjoy Wesley Willis’ recent concert.
A DIVE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
J/Mi
One- or two-room shanties include a fire ring for cooking and an outhouse. Our 
deluxe suite has indoor plumbing. There is plenty of nearby parking but don t 
come whining to us when your car is missing its radio or missing completely.
Conveniently located on Homewood Ave in the heart of the ghetto. Two blocks 
from 14 sensual massage parlors and 12 duty-free pharmaceutical vendors.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
131 North Homewood Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15123
(412) 114-1111

---------------------------------------------------

Bidniz yXechnical Glitches
II December 2000THE MAT5IATPage 9
CMU stands for ‘Can’t Measure Up’ Smurphy: ‘Pitt sucks.
Let’s tear it down’Endowment Graph
... >
MIT CMU Harvard Stanford Case Western CalTech U.S. Average
Andy Warhola/Art Staff
If the University of Pittsburgh has its Cathedral of Learning, one might say CMU's Hammerschlag Hall sports 
the Tower of Impotence. CMU’s average penis size doesn't quite stack up to our tier group.
CMU Stinks
SCS and the Scots 
fighting dirt at CMU
To promote more hygenic com­
puter science majors, the University 
is teaming up with Scotish Sewer 
Spring to wash the scum off the 
skin of CMU’s cluster rats. Financial 
terms of the agreement were not 
disclosed.
However, Dean of SCS Rod 
Roddy did not properly log out of 
his account in the Wiener Hall 5469 
cluster, allowing the Natrat to gain 
exclusive access to his e-mail.
A statement from former 
University President Gerard Colon 
addressed to Roddy and celebrity 
game-show host and animal 
spokesman Bob Barker read: “Yo’ 
dudes. What’s up? NMH. So - that 
soap deal. They’ll give us fifty bucks 
and a couple of marbles if we go 
along. Nuff said. Oh yeah, Rod you 
left your back scrubber at my pad 
last night.”
Scotish Sewer Spring also is enti­
tled to charge rent to all dormitory 
residents using shower facilities, 
which is approximately 43% of 
CMU housing students.
Compiled by 
Art Garfunkel
Study says CMU 
males lack penal 
fortitude
PEEPEE, from page 9
Stupid Body President Dude Libel 
ordered an emergency meeting of 
Stupid Senate. Only three senators 
appeared to address the matter. 
Unable to form a quorum, the orga­
nization still managed to drink 
heavily and raise the activities’ fee 
instead.
"Hey, at least we got something 
done," said Libel in a drunken stu­
por.
The three campus females were 
unsure whether CMU males pos­
sessed the capitulatory organ. In a 
joint statement through the CMU 
Womyn’s Center, they expressed 
the sentiment that "CMU males are 
almost as ugly as Scaife Hall. And 
they are about as well-endowed as 
dixie cup's.”
Few were able to express disdain 
for the research report, besides the 
Kiltie Band and several computer 
science majors.
by Ulget Richer
tabsab ,5l P55n
In spite of the constant contro­
versy surrounding Napster, the 
popular peer-to-peer music file 
swapping service, Computing 
Services surged forward this past 
week by finishing their installation 
of a Napster cluster in the basement 
of the University Center.
The new cluster is part of a uni­
versity wide effort to waste com­
puters on superfluous tasks. The 
new cluster comes only weeks after 
weather-checking stations were set 
up in Wean Hall.
“Actually, I think the weather 
checking stations are great. On the 
few days when the report calls for 
sun, I can almost picture what it 
would look like,” a scraggly-haired, 
squinting CS student said.
The location in UC was chosen 
for its convenience as well as its 
size. Students can now stop in 
between classes, log in using their 
Andrew ID and start downloading 
immediately. Using a custom-con- 
figured version of Napster also 
allows the queue to keep running 
even after you’ve logged out.
“We wanted students to be able 
to get as much copyright-infringing 
material as possible before the ser­
vice goes under,” added a senior 
Computing Service official. “We’ve 
upped students’ Andrew storage 
space but we’re still getting a bevy 
of complaints about Mulberry quo­
tas being too small.”
The cluster arrangement is the 
first of its type at an American uni­
versity. Most universities have 
barred students from the service 
after receiving a letter from the 
president of the RIAA. Similar clus-
by Patti LaBelle
AaJu wasDaMaJ5
The Institute of Higher Learning is 
reporting that Carnage Melon 
University possesses a student body 
with one of the smallest average 
penis size among major national 
universities. While Harvard 
University continues its alpha-male 
dominance, CMU has surpassed 
such legendary schools such as 
Beaver College, and the University 
of Southern California Trojans.
CMU’s mean size of 1.5 inches 
falls slightly above second-rate uni­
versity Case Western Reserve 
University. However, it pales in 
comparison to such havens for gar­
gantuan flacid penises, Stanford 
University and California Institute 
of Technology.
Dr. Ruth Masterbator-Ginsberg, 
sex therapist said the average size 
of a flaccid male penis is near 4.5 
inches.
"What do you think we’re hiding 
under those kilts," chuckled an 
obscene Band President Loren 
Mazzel.
"I think the fact that the CS 
school is located in Wean Hall 
should mean something. And didn’t 
you ever see Arthur 
Hammerschlag’s nose? It’s huge! 
And you know what they say about 
a man’s nose," said junior Inder 
Mayjar.
ters exist in Canada and served as a 
model for Computing Services.
“We thought what those guys up 
north were doing was pretty neat. I 
mean, we’ve got a couple terabytes 
to spare, so what the heck, eh?” 
commented Tom Yorke, another 
Computing Services official.
Within the first week of its open­
ing, the cluster has been swamped 
with users at the rate of over 
10,000 searches per hour. Students 
have responded positively to the 
university’s embracing of the con­
troversial technology.
“I finally found the Tomb Raider 
soundtrack—two weeks before it’s 
due to be released! It took a couple 
days, but I knew it was out there. So I 
missed a couple classes, who cares?” 
stated a nervous ECE freshman.
Word about the Napster cluster 
has spread quickly, appearing in 
Wired, Red Herring and other tech 
journals.
“Technically, it’s pretty impres­
sive that we can offer wireless 
Napster. You have no idea the kind 
of bandwidth that requires let 
alone a whole cluster!” remarked 
Yorke.
The office of the provost has sup­
posedly been in touch with Shawn 
Fanning, the creator of Napster, 
and asked if he would be interested 
in joining the computing services 
advisory board. So far, Fanning has 
not replied.
A flustered Dean Bieterschwet 
commented, “When Fanning 
applied to the School of Computer 
Science, we were like, ‘What is this 
peer-to-peer nonsense?’ So, yeah, 
we rejected him—so what? We’re 
not saying we were wrong, we’re 
just looking ahead to the future of 
our university.”
"Carnage Melon is a disgrace to 
American education system. Even a 
trimmed John Wayne Bobbit would 
laugh and giggle like a school girl at 
CMU," said Dr. Masterbator- 
Ginsberg.
Vice President of Rolling and 
Tripping and world champion of 
Greco-Woman Wrestling Dill Idiot 
claimed no responsibility and 
deferred all questions to new 
University President Burt 
Bacharach.
"The first question is, did CMU 
choose the dinky-wanged individ­
ual? Or did the dinky-wanged per­
son pick CMU? Beyond that, I refer 
all questions to that new bastard in 
Whorener Hall, Burt Bacharach."
In a completely unrelated note, 
Idiot explained his disdain for 
Bacharach stemmed from the 
singer’s vigorous independent 
opinions and inability to bought 
out by University bigwigs.
Bacharach commented that stu­
dents with tiny wieners should sign
by Dick Backwash
FL1y5Li H/ss5gc/oJ5ob
In 1997, the Carnegie Mellon 
University Robotics Institute 
received $30 million in funding 
from NASA, the Department of 
Energy, the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency and 
Hugh Hefner. Recently, the 
National Science Foundation was 
added to that list. They all share a 
common interest: developing an 
artificially intelligent plaything.
The Natrat met recently with 
Darien D’Baucherie, a professor 
emeritus and the 
director of the 
Tactile Android 
Robotics Lab at 
CMU, and inven­
tor of the 
SmartDoll-a vari­
able five-foot-two,
3 4 ” - 2 2 ” - 3 4 ” 
android named 
Alice.
The 43-year-old 
French-born pro­
fessor is not your 
sane academic, 
which became 
clear after a few 
shots of whiskey.
First, he drove me 
to CMU in his con­
vertible Mazda 
sports car, all the 
while stroking the 
gearshift and 
purring “Show 
Daddy some 
speed”; second, he 
says he lives in fear 
of Highlander soupspoons; and third, 
he thinks Internet porn is boring.
"That's why I got interested in 
robotics — because you can’t 
manipulate people the way you can 
a robot," he says. “Not to mention 
the fact that I haven’t been on a 
date since high school.”
Hooked on Robotits
Ever since he was last rejected, 
Mr. D’Baucherie has been driven to 
develop the SmartDoll. While she’s 
near perfect, he is quick to point 
out that Alice will not satiate all 
human desires, yet.
"My mom doesn’t understand 
what I do," he laments. “She thinks
up for experimental penal implant 
surgeries currently being conduct­
ed at the new joint biotechnology 
center established by CMU and the 
University of Shitsburgh.
"U-Shit’s medical prowess and 
our truth-destroying capabilities 
should allow the inept males at our 
Shitsburgh campus to become 
more sexually active," said a coy 
Bacharach.
Professor of Genetic Re-engi­
neering and co-star of one of 
America’s most beloved movies Dr. 
Frankenstein, Gene Wilder was 
enthused about the undertaking.
"What a lame school and a bunch 
of lame penises. I only wish that 
half the student body here could 
get it up. Most of the morons in my 
Introduction to Clonin’ Body Parts 
haven’t even seen a chick naked. Do 
I even have to engineer new sch- 
longs for these dolts? We could just 
hang 'em from a pole by their ding- 
dongs."
See PEEPEE, page 9
Alice is just an attempt to become 
the man I’ll never be. But I’ve chal­
lenged her to come up with a plan 
that will provide an adequate way 
to get Joe Schmo “who-can’t-get-a- 
girl” off, and if she does then I will 
give up my research immediately. 
But she hasn’t shown me anything 
near what Alice can do!”
Potentially, the SmartDoll may 
make the lives of people every­
where, especially the CS students 
at CMU, somewhat more complete.
Mr. D’Baucherie and his team of 
undergraduate students have the 
scent problem solved. They’ve also 
solved the issues of realistic tactili-
ty. The SmartDoll can even be pro­
grammed to act a certain way 
through a simple spoken interface.
The CMU Psychology depart­
ment developed the SmartDoll’s 
voice-activated Profile Mirror 
System (PMS). Their role was piv­
otal in developing Alice’s character 
and personality schemas, and 
worked ceaselessly to engineer 
PMS to allows users to control 
Alice’s behavior by downloadable 
schemas from the Finger gateway 
over a wireless network.
One excited Drama major 
exclaimed, “Fingering any number 
of my friends is now easy—in fact,
by Apt Pupil
U1Jo1G Li3Dc
Due to academic ineptitude, the 
City of Pittsburgh’s Mayor’s Office 
is proposing an educational rede­
velopment initiative similar to his 
failed Fifth and Forbes commercial 
plan. The city’s big cheese, Mayor 
Tom Smurphy said that to remain 
competitive, the University of 
Pittsburgh would need a “hipper 
image” with strengths in academic 
circles.
“It’s obvious that Pitt has major 
problems. These guys build unin­
spring architecture for an intellec- 
tually-defunct campus,” the Mayor 
said in an extremely ironic state­
ment.
CMU Professor Bort Lucid and 
President of Da’ ‘Burgh was overly 
thrilled about the development.
“Off the record, those m-f-ers at 
Pitt have no idea what they are 
doing. We need to bring in upscale 
universities to bring residents to the 
city. They have a bunch of students 
as dumb as a doorknob. We need to 
brutalize that brutalist architecture 
and build something really cool like 
the fascist structures of CMU.”
Destroy Da’ ‘Burgh is an organi­
zation dedicated to the destruction 
of the entire city in order to bring 
new sewer rats and capitalist pig 
dogs into the region.
The Mayor’s Fifth and Forbes 
initiative attempted to implode 
two city blocks in the heart of 
downtown for more upscale 
retailers that catered to yuppies. 
His plan failed when Nordstrom’s 
Department Stores decided that 
the city hadn’t provided enough 
money for them to privately make 
more dough.
Chancellor Monk Nerdenberg 
was livid at the Mayor’s insinua­
tions about the shortcomings of his 
school.
I’ve Fingered more than one friend 
at a time. It’s simple; all you have to 
do is say ‘Finger’ and then say a 
user ID and she instantly loads the 
profile from the network.”
Alice’s primary purpose will be to 
satiate its master’s every need - a 
seemingly mediocre task, but one 
that could potentially save a lot of 
money: prostitution has cost the 
nation about $100 billion, total, 
when you factor in condoms, jel­
lies, and the optional whips and 
chains, according to Mr. 
D’Baucherie.
Furthermore, he estimates his 
monthly costs at $90 on average for
his subscription to a porn maga­
zine, an online sex site and the 
additional adult pay stations.
“Pay-per-view is a bitch with 
their hour minimum order,” he 
commented.
The SmartDoll is his solution. 
But unfortunately, Alice might be 
out of the price range for most way­
ward wankers. "I suppose in that 
case I would recommend develop­
ing an orgasm-inducing pill, but I 
am merely a robotics professor," 
said Mr. D’Baucherie, obviously 
unaware of the ever-popular drug 
Ecstasy.
Though Alice has been extremely
“We don’t need no stinkin’ 
smurph givin’ us no directions on 
how to be edumacators. Smurphs 
need to start worrying about 
Gargamel.”
Pitt’s most recent failures include 
tearing down an impressive football 
stadium constructed in the 1920s 
and subjecting the freshman classes 
to new seminar classes, such as 
“Failed Attempts at Urban 
Planning: Pitt in the 1960s,” “the 
Horticulturist in U!,” and “The 
Contributions of .38 Special to 
Modern Music.”
Councilman Been Furloughed, 
was particularly upset at the'last 
seminar course-considering the 
city’s most recent ringing approval 
of Boy George with the aptly 
named, Boy George Day. His collab­
oration with Smurphy has marked 
the commencement of what politi­
cal insiders have deemed "the 
Unholy Alliance."
Smurphy’s plan calls for the 
demolition of Posvar Hall (the 
building formerly known as Forbes 
Quadrangle), the Law complex, 
and Hillman Library. The design 
also razes the three massive con­
crete cylinders within the center of 
campus. It is believed the structures 
contain a subservient group of col­
lege students unable to function in 
modern society.
Smurphy’s henchmen include 
Pittsburgh Late-News-Gazelle edi­
tor-in-chief John Kreig and his 
brother, former NFL superstar 
quarterback Dave Kreig. The tri­
umvirate called for the extension of 
the Cranegie Mellon campus into 
the Oakland area with the Nazi, err, 
colonnade hallways currently 
sported on the Purnell and 
University Centers.
“If we just replace Pitt with CMU, 
the problem is solved. This isn’t 
rocket-science,” said Smurphy.
Nerdenberg was unfazed. “We 
justa’ don’t lika the idea.”
successful so far, there was one case 
early in development that threatened 
to close the whole project down. 
Supposedly during Beta testing, an 
overzealous tester was electrocuted to 
death by a short in Alice’s internal 
intelligence systems. Subsequently, 
the central processing unit and its 
related electrical components were 
moved into the rib cage above the 
pelvic region.
Getting it on with Alice
Indeed, Alice will carry out a 
number of important tasks. For 
example, Alice will assume any 
position and comes trained in the 
Ten Postures of1 the 
Perfumed Garden; 
her on-board digi­
tal video camera 
can record up to 3 
hours of passionate 
lovemaking; and 
her silicone-rubber 
skin can withstand 
heat and puncture 
wounds. Alice can 
also cook a mean 
stroganoff, but 
most users will pre­
fer her covered in 
whip cream and 
chocolate syrup. 
What distinguishes 
her from a typical 
"blowup doll"- is 
that she to all the 
senses of a normal 
human, and fea­
tures voice-cog­
nizant software, 
meaning she can 
tell when a user is 
nearing peak and 
can alter her behav­
ior accordingly. She can also com­
municate wirelessly with other 
Alice-bots, for instance, in a man­
age a trois.
However, Mr. D’Baucherie sees 
this as only the beginning. Future 
versions of Alice, he hopes, will be 
able to develop their own position 
and will have a libido of their own, 
meaning that they will be able to 
demand sex from their master. (
"To get robots to carry out tasks 
such as demanding sex 
autonomously is quite difficult, but 
we could provide special places 
that would excite them," says Mr. 
D’Baucherie.
Napster cluster installed in 
University Center basement
CMU Develops Intelligent SmartDoll Technology
Robowhore Alice Worth Every Penny and More
PleasurabilityAlice provides quite a ride. Plus she's got multiple... entryways. Whether you want it traditionally, orally, or otherwise, Alice is ready and willing. Her voice is incredibly real just like the rest of her body. There's nothing I couldn't grab, tug or bite that didn't spring back to its original form.
(if p'c<
Ease of UsePoint and shoot. I think we can all master that. Curious girls can use Alice to ’take the leap" without really taking the leap, if you know what I mean. Not only that, she learns quick too!
Features• Elastic - flesh can be stretched up to 400%• Heat Resistant - can withstand over 300’ heat• Water Resistant• Stain Resistant & Durable - nothing sticks to long life silicone flesh• Lifelike - anatomically correct• Realistic Feel - soft in all the right places• Odorless and Flavorless• Pleasurable - effective aid to sexual fulfillment• Safe - no risk of disease, nontoxic• Convenient - always ready to go, as a travel buddy •Comforting - provides stress-free companionship
Overall Satisfaction
Think about. It's not too difficult to get 
laid by an android who's programmed to 
satisfy your every desire. Finally—some 
hope for the rest of us!
(adapted from RealDoll.com)
Infographie by Thugbot

---------------------------------------------------

ADULT Entertainment
Motion picture epic Deborah Consummates Dallas 
leaves its reviewers quivering for more ACTION!!!
XXX FILM REVIEW
by Long Schlong Silver
Hitchcock protege 
& Cherry Poppins
Who's your daddy?
Deborah Consummates Dallas, a heartwarm­
ing tale of a young girl’s struggle to go all the 
way — south of the border, that is — will fill 
audiences, male and female, alike with memo­
ries long past of their own collegiate pursuits: 
specifically those outside of the academic realm.
From the very first throes of Deborah’s post­
game adventures in the sports preparation facil­
ity, the viewer catches an intimate glimpse of 
our heroine’s most prized possessions. As she 
and the enticing athletic enthusiast express 
their affections towards each other, artistic cine­
matographic marvels abound, particularly as 
the camera closes in on their private equipment, 
and their discarded game wear. The scene 
reaches a tumultuous apex as Deborah adorns 
protective headgear and hums a song as just the 
right chords are plucked.
As the movie progresses, certain attributes 
stand out amidst a complex plot struggle of 
great flexibility and discomfort. Aside from Mr. 
Hardwick’s burning candlestick, Deborah and 
her voluptuous companions find themselves in 
many sticky situations. The licentious beauties
retreat to the bathhouse to cleanse themselves 
and discuss tactical maneuvers that will help 
them pay their way to Texas to cheer on 
Deborah as she shakes her pom-poms for the 
good of the team. At this moment, however, the 
supple young females are joined by their male 
companions for some friendly horseplay in the 
shower. Here, character development reaches a 
climax, as the now well-acquainted group 
engages in a plethora of enticing reproductive 
acts. As the faucets are turned off, liquids of all 
sorts continue to pour copiously over 
the exposed females, and the girls 
intensely come to a revelation: their 
co-curricular pursuits can be used for 
uplifting more than just males’ bodily 
apparatuses; they could also uplift 
their economic situation.
Throughout the cinematic experi­
ence, the director’s artistic vision was 
more than exposed as the characters 
displayed extraordinary physical 
attributes of size and stamina, and a 
bit of acting prowess, as well. At 
times, the lighting was insufficient, 
and the plot overall had many holes 
that begged to be filled. The musical 
score, however, provided the review­
ers with the most pleasure. In one 
powerfully moving moment, the gui­
tar reached serene but thunderous crescendos 
as the soundtrack exploded in a climax of rhyth­
mic melodies.
In the end, Deborah and her female team­
mates reached their goal of attending the presti­
gious Texas competition, and seemed even more 
satisfied than we did, as we sat sticky-handedly 
next to a box of Kleenex and an empty bottle of 
hand lotion. We highly recummend it.
Final Grade: DDD
What the Final Grades Mean
AAA.5 = Nancy Reagan 
A = Myron Cope 
B = Jamie Lee Curtis 
C = Your Mom 
D = Catherine Zeta-Jones 
DD = Dolly Parton 
DDD = Wendy Whoppers
II December 2000 THE V1AT5LATPage 10
CMU chicks brag and bitch 
about their sexploitations
SEX IN THE CLUSTER
Looking 4 HOT action? U better BUNK with this co-ed!!!!
ROOMMATE REVIEW
Gladheateher
Friday, December 15
Following in the footsteps of such legendary adult film take­
offs of successful Hollywood blockbusters like American Booty, 
Jurassic Pork, and Forrest Hump comes (I have to stop using 
that word) comes Gladheateher, a sex-packed spoof on this 
summer’s Russell Crowe-starring sword-and-sandal block­
buster. This time, though, the hero Coiticus (Peter North) 
chases a whole lot more tail than just the lions he fights. You 
probably didn’t even get that, did you? “Chasing tail” is a 
euphemism for pursuing women for sexual purposes. So I was 
implying that, in addition to fighting, Coiticus is going to get 
lots of action. Everyone clear on that?
It seems odd that every scene in every adult movie follows 
the exact same progression of activity and ends the exact same 
way. It’s as if all of the creative juices (do not, repeat, do not 
laugh at that word) of these filmmakers have been sapped. 
They need a real A-list talent to come in and shake things up 
artisitically. Like Steven Spielberg, or Martin Scorsese. 
Although now that I think of it, no self-respecting skin flick 
should have any extraterrestrials or guys with pinky rings, so 
maybe we should just leave things like they are.
Movie with Zero Plot Other than Actors 
and Actresses Doing Things That Could 
Easily Get You Kicked out of Several 
Major Religions
Saturday, December 16
Tired of the spectacle and pretense present in most adult 
titles, veteran actor Peter North penned the script for this dia- 
logue-free XXX classic. The opening screen of text explains 
that businessman Mike Kinsey (North) has been given the 
power to confidently walk up to any chick and get busy with 
her. Not surprisingly, he elects to do so with a number of 
today’s hottest (damn these puns) vixens. Fan favorites like 
Sindee Legsnbreasts, Felicia Coxx, and Edith Hockenbloster all 
make scene-stealing appearances as the objects of Kinsey’s 
affection.
Hey, Student Senate! How about you stop devoting so much 
time to your “surpluses” and “bylaws” and “I can’t think of a 
third thing” and take a good, hard (last bad joke, I promise) 
look at the porn on this campus. Not that I think it’s a bad 
influence on students or anything, it’s just that there are still 
adult films with more guys than girls. And no one wins with 
that.
Disney’s “The Bone”
Sunday, December 17
Capping off the weekend slate of nudity-filled movies is this 
all-ages classic, featuring lots and lots of slapstick fun for the 
kiddies and plenty of all-out hardcore sex for scary Uncle 
Frank. You’ll love it! This lighthearted sex comedy follows the 
sexcellent sexcapades of wacky archaeologist Peter North 
(Peter North) and his bumblimg assistant Jason Nemitz (also 
played by North in a Peter Sellers-esque dual role.) of course, 
when Peter’s out on his digs, there’s plenty of bones to go 
around!
While Peter does his share of the old “jellybean in the cup­
cake,” Jason gets his “spaceship” into more than a few “power 
plants, if you “catch” my “drift.” Yep, these guys “take the old 
porcupine to the jello” more than you could ever hope to, still 
taking time out to “frost” a few “pastries.”
by Debbie Does Everything
Gets Paid to Get Laid
There we were all sitting together at 
our daily lunches in Highlander. 
Miranda began to speak of her experi­
ence last night with her new Computer 
Science beau.
Miranda: So, than he starts calling 
out my user name “MR1244” instead of 
my real name at his climax.
Samantha: If you think that’s bad 
honey, my last boyfriend who was in 
Computer Science shouted out his ex 
girlfriend’s user name.
Charlotte: Ouch, that is why I only 
date business majors.
Samantha: So Debbie, how is it
going with Lance?
Lance is an undergraduate musical 
theater major. We had met while he 
was practicing his Pippin outside the 
CFA building. During his finale he acci­
dentally shuffled into me and knocked 
me down. From there on we began to 
date, but things haven’t been quite that 
smooth.
Debbie: Well, he is acting a little 
weird. He seems to have a weird rela­
tionship with his best friend Bruce.
Charlotte: How so?
Debbie: When I went to his. dorm 
room Bruce and him were lying togeth­
er, crying, while watching Beaches.
Miranda: So he’s a little sensitive.
Debbie: They were in the nude.
When I asked him what that was about, 
he said it was an exercise his drama 
teacher had them do.
Samantha: He is gay.
Debbie: I know. I should have known 
better than to date a guy from CFA.
Charlotte: What is wrong with the 
men here?
What is wrong with the men of 
CMU? I found myself wandering the 
halls of Morewood, reflecting on our 
experiences with men at CMU.
There was Samantha’s Christian 
who couldn’t get himself away from his 
computer. He chatted on UNIX all day. 
She found that he was having cyber sex 
with a mysterious girl out there in 
cyberspace; well that girl ended up 
being his roommate across the hall. 
When he found out, it didn’t seem to 
bother him, but with her he couldn’t 
deal with the fact that she wasn’t made 
of chips.
Then there was Charlotte’s Jeffery, 
who only thought about all 
the money he will make 
when he graduates.
Therefore, there was no 
need for a woman and 
Charlotte had to go.
Poor Miranda’s John 
can’t get past her user­
name.
Then there is me, who 
has an increasable streak at 
picking out men that are 
gay. Maybe it is us, the ratio 
is in favor of the woman on 
campus, so why can’t we 
find men?
Than I realized it is the 
men: 30% of the men on 
campus are scared of girls,
40% are obsessed with 
money, and the other 30% 
is “What the hell was I 
thinking?”
pictures courtesy of www.XxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxXxX.com
Above: “Oooh, yeah! Ooooh, ap3+! Yeah! Right there! Baby!!"
Below: Miranda, Samantha, and Charlotte check out the latest piece of hottie ass 
logging in at Wean Hall 5201.
by Strawberry Taco
Natrat Intern
When I first met my roommate, Irena, I 
thought I saw God’s perfect specimen. Her razor 
sharp cheekbones and her perfect, smooth, skin 
made me want to major in art, with a concentra­
tion in painting. Irena, simply put, symbolized an 
idealisHc, eternal, beauty. Every woman wanted 
to have her features (even though it is a hate and 
love relationship), and every man fell in love with 
her, instantaneously. Living with her would end 
my pathetic, nonexistent, social life. And it did.
We always had company over, especially men. 
Guys seemed to drop by all the time. They 
brought cakes, flowers, CDs, condoms, and even 
caviar. Irena would accept them with a warm 
smile, and her smile would send any straight guy 
straight to the bathroom to masturbate.
Living with her did not only end my nonexis­
tent social life but also revived my intellectual 
curiosity. Irena seemed to turn everything into a 
project. For example, in one of her experiments 
she hypothesized that there is a correlation 
between height and penis size, or,'in other words, 
she would like to prove that heights have an 
effect on penis-size. Her method was consistent. 
She would measure a man’s penis at his peak, 
right before he reached orgasm. When he started
Wet Nurses II
Thursday, December 14
The second and perhaps most 
critically acclaimed of director Dan 
Summers’ Wet Nurses trilogy is 
coming (some jokes just write 
themselves) to campus this 
Thursday. The plot focuses on car­
penter John Hawkins (Peter 
North), who is hospitalized for 
shock after reading the intense 
unfunniness of issue 1,000,010 of 
readme. Fortunately, this hospital’s 
staff of easy nurses are willing and 
able to help pick his spirits back 
“up.”
Attention CMU School of Music: the adult industry needs 
your help! That’s right. The classic porno-funk of smut’s 70s 
heyday has been largely replaced by cheesy quasi-techno and 
music that might almost be construed as romantic. Without a 
groovy soundtrack, fans watching at home have to resort to 
either watching the “plot” or sometimes even operating the 
remote control, which brings on a whole slew of logisitical 
problems.
NumberHeightAverage
of men(in inches)Penis Length
105' 5"10"
105' 7"7"
105' 9”6.5"
106'5.7"
106' 2"3"
106'4"2"
After running several regressions, we conclud­
ed that among good-looking men (since she only 
slept with good-looking ones) there is a strong 
correlation between height and penis size: tall 
men tended to have small penises, and converse­
ly short men tended to have large penises.
We were baffled by our result and decided that 
we need to increase our sampling data. In addi­
tion, our estimator might be a biased one. Those 
who are interested to participate (good looking 
men only) please come immediately to 
Morewood Apartment, or you contact Irena or
screaming, Irena would get her measuring tape 
and lay it on the man's dick. A ruler would give an 
inaccurate reading because of the different 
shapes of penises. By the way, many men pro­
fessed to her that her measuring technique, in 
fact, turned them on. The breakdown of the data 
that she had collected is as follows:
me by phone. We cannot give you our exact loca­
tion or our exact phone number. It's part of exper­
iment to figure out where exactly we are located. 
Hints: we live in Morewood Tower S&M and our 
phone number starts with 268-3.

---------------------------------------------------

something no one ever reads anyway
I am not bitter, despite years and years of having to fill" 
this stupid space with stupid sentences I thought up at 
the last minute. Well, heck, maybe I am bitter. Do you—
njr
have any idea how much crap I have to write just to make1
S'
sure there aren’t any holes in my section? It’s a lot, let me-1 
tell you. Sometimes, I ask myself: Does anyone ever care?
The Crassmaster
Aware that I lacked any schred of good sense on ray own, I sought out Graduate students Randrej Bauer and Corey Mo'sack to advise me on dating.
I met a voluminous girl with exceptional mathematical ability. We got along great; even after we stopped watching anime. Later that evening we even spiced it up a notch.
they bequethed the axiom of desperation:
^ Ass is As!
mcrock@andrew.cmu.edu
Bulbous, yet agile!
f£
and if you don't understand that, you're not worth talking to.
When she started with the Church-Turing Hypothesis, 1 knew that this was the beginning of something special...
You got a liscense for that thing?
The Adventures of
i yd 
u\H 
j & 
iv'V'i'j
Encouraged, and armed with new knowledge I took to the streets.My arrogant new attitude attracted women like termites to balsa wood.
SuperHairGirl!!!
"Fighting crime with her clever wit and volumnious hair"
by Nna Siwel
-i
r»«$
.vJi
!UU
but after a few weeks she quit returning my calls.
Hey, I heard that Voluminous Hire Girl has been dating ThugBot lately.
I thought she was going steady with Corey Mo’sack?
Anyone else up for Ultimate Frisbee?
The Harder They Are The Farder They Eschew lu Us55L5 Hi1i TaoLan5
E Wow, what a rough day ] 
° / at work. I don't think \ 
° i aoubi1om will cheer me up J
15
0 Ah! You kids ^ 
I as5oBb anything! O
lamn.Well I guess its back to makings 3 
Iso me more dinoaurs for me...

---------------------------------------------------

II December 2000THE MATflLATPage i2
These girls of Charlie’s are far 
from angels. Catch my drift?
FILM REVIEW
by Mrs. Robinson
MILF
Does the formula for a good movie include 
plenty of action, hot chicks, martial arts, and 
plenty of pop culture? It would appear that 
Hollywood seems to think so in the releasing 
Of the trendy new flick, Charlie’s Angels, 
However, despite the films fluffy content I 
was pleasantly surprised with my movie 
going experience as I put my brain on cruise 
control and settled in for two hours of Drew 
Barrymore and Cameron Diaz.
The Charlie’s Angels is the next film to 
spring out of the movie industry’s trend of 
unoriginally. Based on the 1970’s television 
show, Charlie’s Angels joins the ranks of other 
refurbished TV to movie spin offs such as 
The Avengers and Mod Squad. Its amazing 
what a little tape and glue can do to spruce 
up a deteriorating heap of celluloid.
Perhaps I’m being to cynical because I did 
indeed enjoy the movie, yet at the same time 
I was somewhat disturbed with the fact that 
I was finding the film entertaining even 
though I knew It was complete fluff.
Charlie’s Angels stars bad girl Dylan (Drew 
Barrymore), ditsy Natalie (Cameron Diaz), 
and brainy Alex (Lucy Liu) who are all 
assigned their missions from their missions 
from their mysterious benefactor, Charlie, 
their assignment in the movie is to rescue 
Eric Knox (Sam Rockwell), a genius multi­
millionaire who's just invented voice-identi- 
fication software that is more accurate and
efficient than current fingerprinting tech­
niques.
The girls narrow their list of suspects to 
come upon Knox’s rival, Roger Corwin (Tim 
Curry) who owns a telecommunications 
satellite network that could use the new soft­
ware to locate anybody in the world by their 
voice signature. While the angels are unable 
to rescue Knox their faced with the dilemma 
of rescuing their intermediary, Bosly (Bill 
Murray) from being kidnapped. At the same 
time they have to save Charlie because an 
unsuspected villain who may be using the 
voice software to find him is targeting him.
I felt that the lead actresses who seem to 
have had a lot of fun playing their respective 
roles and their cheerful enthusiasm shows 
throughout the entire movie. However, even 
though they were as good as they were, Bill 
Murray took the spotlight in every one of his
Final Grade: D
Do Pittsburgh!
Things to do in Pittsburgh this week:
1. Homework
2. Schoolwork
3. Project work
4. Go home for winter break
Face it, folks, that’s all there is.
This film reviewer 
isn’t exactly worth 
two thumbs up
REVIEW REVIEW
by I’m sorry Mario
but our princess is in another castle
The latest offering from Mrs. Robinson (Does anyone even 
know this no-name’s first name?), a laughable attempt at a 
‘review’ of the feel-good T&A flick Charlie’s Angels, is the 
strongest evidence yet that you don’t have to be the possessor 
of anything resembling talent in order to write for The Natrat. 
Beginning with the absolutely fucking startling observation 
that the flick, based on the 7O’s television show of the same 
name, may not be chock full of substance, Ryan proceeds to 
offer up an array of information on the film that any quarter- 
wit could have gleened from the trailer. It is questionable 
whether he even bothered to watch it.
“Perhaps I’m being to cynical because I did indeed enjoy the 
movie, yet at the same time I was somewhat disturbed with the 
fact that I was finding the film entertaining even though I knew 
It was complete fluff.”
This ass had the audacity to submit this for publication. I, for 
one, have had my intelligence insulted.
Perhaps I am being too harsh. He does, after all, offer a com­
prehensive listing of major actors and the parts which they 
play. True, this offers all the insight of a paid advertisement, 
but at least its something. And from the writing I’m guessing 
he’s not over, 12, so I’ll give him a break.
But one last point: What the fuck is a “caste of characters?” 
Are Drew Berrymore and Bill Murray Untouchables,or 
Brahmin? Although that’s an easy one, I guess. I’d touch Drew 
Berrymore any fucking day of the week.
Final Grade: AA
For Sale: Sexual 
Favors NOW!
GB REVIEW
by Rafael Santana
Shortstop
Radiohead took the world be storm and proved 
to be a sparkling gem in the otherwise dark and 
disappointing world of modern rock. Their 
albums The Bends and OK Computer not only did 
well at the cash register, every music critic this 
side of Wolfgang Mozart hailed them as the 
greatest LP’s of the modern rock era.
Thus, a lot of expectations are riding on their 
latest release, Kid F. Giving it a cursory listen, I 
immediat HA HA! Dudes, taking over some 
lamer’s account who forgot to log out is sooooooo 
retarded. Posting to cmu.misc.market is just, I’m 
sorry, too old school and it’s no longer funny.
You want funny? This is funny: go to the third 
floor of the University Center on a Sunday after­
noon. If you see a Natrat Editor take a break from 
his or her work to get a bite to eat, take a look for 
an open computer. If you see that the editor has 
forgotten to close his/her layout file, you’re in 
like Flynn!
What a lamer! This Mr. Santana has no idea I’m 
taking over his freaking file! Hey, did everyone 
know that Rafael is gay? Yeah, and he collects 
pictures of little boys and girls.
Uh, I don’t know what else to say. Well, this 
Rafael Santana guy loves email forwards and he 
actually collects them. So be sure to email him 
lots and lots of stupid email forwards. His email 
address is hgarcia247@andy.cmu.edu.
He’s coming back. Fun’s over. I’m handing this 
section in.
The Over-18 Calendar
TM
Before reading the material below, I hereby swear under perjury of law that I am of at least l8 years of age.
II December 2000THE MATÜATPage me at 237~5757
Here are all the important events to 
help you get through finals that 
should be entered into your Palm 
Pilot. If you don’t have one, well 
first, why not? Second, you’ll just 
have to cut this out and carry it 
with you.
fry day, x/y/z
“How to Put in the Least Amount of 
Effort and Still Pass, ” by Matt Foley, moti­
vational speaker. 3 pm in the van down by the
Tantra Workshop. 4 pm until, well, until 
it’s over. Couples only please. Register by 
emailing bettersex@hotmail.com. Sponsored 
by the Student Enjoyment of X-rated 
Activities Council.
"Why ril Miss Mister Rogers,” by
George W. Bush. That’s right, the presidential 
candidate will actually make an appearance to 
discuss an issue he cares about deeply. 2 pm in 
the CMU Children’s School. Please allow for a 
late start in case nap time runs over.
Bambi and Candy’s Massage Clinic.
Stop by for a free glass of champagne and 10- 
minute massage between the hours of 8pm 
amd midnight. Admission: It’s free to all, but 
think carefully about whether you want 
champagne and a massage from these two.
Sesame Sti'eet: Important to Our 
Children’s Educational Foundation,”
by A1 Gore. Not tired of thinking about school 
yet? Well, the other presidential candidate 
discusses education in America and why it’s 
important to get an early start. 6pm in 
McConomy (this must be important) 
Auditorium.
President Colon’s Yearly Office 
Hours. 1 to 4 pm in his office. He’ll only have 
time to see about four students, so get there 
early!
The Last Day of Classes Finally Over 
Party. Whenever and wherever you can find 
it. Yes, there is one in the UC, but is that real­
ly the fun you’re looking for?
“How To Stay Drug Free During 
Finals Time,” by Robert Downey, Jr. Tips 
from the expert. Free to all with valid parole 
card. 1 pm in Rangos (we hope this is big 
enough) Hall.
“How to Handle More than One 
Partnerby Charlie Sheen. Expert advice 
on a very important issue. 4:30 pm in the 
Adam/Greg/Paul/Brian/AndSoOn Hall.
Stupid Senate Meeting. Your elected 
officials will be discussing all the issues 
important to them. 5 pm in a secret location. 
Good luck getting in because it’s closed to 
anyone with a valid CMU ID.
Chris’s Birthday. He turns 20.
CMU’s Advanced Dirty Dancing Class
presents “Final Projects” for your viewing 
pleasure. 11pm in Breed Hall. Admission: 
Free, what more could you ask for?
“Whipping Boys,” starring Mike 
Dickless and Tony MacDaddy. 8 and 10pm 
and midnight in McComeOnMe Auditorium. 
Admission: $2 with CMU ID and $6 without. 
We think the extra dollar is worth it!
some dude in North Dakota
This The Over-18 Calendar™ has been brought to you 
by William H. Macy. Don’t forget, ladies, he’s the The 
Over-18 Calendar™ Hunk of the Month! Raaaaawrr!
a trrP aH2
[l| I
--—---------------------------------------------1—---—-------—.the official voices in my head
mu m my, 
mu ni my, 
mu m my 
mu m my , 
mu m my, 
mu m my , 
mil m my, 
mu m my , 
mu m my, 
mu' m my, 
mu m my, 
mu rri my, 
mu m my, 
mum my, 
mu m my, 
mu m my, 
mu m my, 
ruu m my, 
mu m my, 
r.ki m my,:
he s gone ratten is not
he s gone x-otten is
he s gone rotten is not f
lie s gone rotten is not
he s gone rotten is not
lie s gone rotten is
lie s gone rotten is
he s gone rotten is
he g gone rotten is
he s gone rotten is
lie a gone rotten is
he s gone rotten
he s gone rotten
he s gone rotten
lie s gone rotten
lie s gone rotten
he s gone rotten
he s gone rotten,
he s gone rotten is
non-going
Free Condom Giveaway! In an effort to 
reduce stress during the finals period, the 
Student ConcernedAboutHealth Council has 
decided to make condoms available to all stu­
dents with a valid CMU ID. Stop by the info 
desk today!
Sell Your Books. Get back 10% of the 
price you originally paid all week during the 
Bookstore’s normal business hours. Only 
available for those with books for the follow­
ing classes: 21373 and 79104. All other cours­
es are either not offered next semester or 
using new editions of the same books.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Natrat 
Calendar? We don’t really care, 
but if you pay us $20 we’ll 
consider helping you out.
Send it to
oabsabI5J3. 5D3. aoJs5Y
