TARTAN
April 18, 1978 Volume 78, Number 26 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
SAE, KKG, SDC, Beta take first honors
by Jean Pe. eqrim and Mike Snizek
Once again Spring Carnival has visited the CMU. campus bringing with it the usual ex­
citement, celebration and amazing variety of fun.
Spring Carnival Committee has been able to successfully incorporate the various in­
dependent and dormitory organizations while maintaining the traditional buggy and booth 
competitions of the Greek organizations, providing a balanced blend of events.
Despite the unseasonably cool weather, most participants were glad both the Midway 
and buggy course were finally free of snow. One fraternity member who was-busily cover­
ing his booth with paper mache Thursday morning ,sighed, “If it rains, we’re sunk’.’ The 
rain never came and even the clouds stayed away giving carnival watchers some of the 
best weather in years.
This year’s theme “Veritites and Balderdash,” produced a wide variety of booths with 
such conventional choices as the Kappa Kappa Gamma’s “Curse of King Tut” to Student 
Dorirl Council’s own CMU legend of the “Steam Tunnels.”
Midway officially opened at 5:30 Thursday evening with the traditional cannon 
sounding. Many booths were not yet completed though. The frantic last minute activity 
was obviously necessary for all participants.
The SDC tent opened at 5 PM with an enormous 70 ft. banana split that was devoured 
in less than 15 minutes by a hungry crowd. Amoving TV camera whipped the crowd into 
a frenzy as they searched for more ice cream.-
The windy weather claimed one victim, however. The Carnegie Involvement Associa­
tion (CIA), entering for the first time, attempted to use a geodesic dome design, but 
strong winds knocked it down early in the day. Booth chairman, Larry Sita, inspected the 
damage and decided to wait until next year for another attempt.
Acropolis, the Food Service Cafe, was situated in the front of the stadium. Customers 
ate crepes, cheese platters, or baklava on checkered-cloth covered table. But most people 
preferred the hot dogs, popcorn, and cotton candy sold at the Midway.
This year’s booth competition provided a wide variety of unusual and interesting de­
signs. In the fraternity competition, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, displayed imagination in their 
ciever interpretation of the “Odyssey.” Zeta Beta Tau’s rendition of the “Medusa” dis­
played a high ievel of booth expertise. >
Kappa Kappa Gamma’s the “Curse of King Tut”, was described by one outsider as the 
“Most beautiful booth that has ever been on the midway.” Using the talents of the nine 
design majors in the sorority, the Kappa’s produced a replica of King Tut’s sarcophogus 
that was worthy enough to grace the walls of the Cairo Museum. Delta Gamma’s “Atlan­
tis” booth displayed considerable effort and time.
If one is to judge by crowd participation, the two favorite booths of midway were the 
Beta Theta Pi and Swim Team booths. Using the old standby of “knock-them-in-the- 
water-for-a-quarter” style booth, both generated considerable excitement showing that 
both organizations really do have a lot of “friends.”
Friday’s cool and clear weather, though conducive to good photographs and large 
crowds, kept the buggy race times below the previous blistering pace of a year ago. 
ZBT’s bike crashed in one of the earlier heats providing the only dangerous incident of 
the entire day. Heat 10 was the most exciting of the day, pitting SAE A, ATO A, and Sig­
ma Nu against each other. All three buggies went over the top of hill 2 into freeroll in a
Winning Beta Buggy tear»« neld ot* Pika and Cl A charge *
Beta's Echo scores coup
dead tie and only the incredible skill of all three drivers prevented a serious incident trom 
occuring.
By noon Friday, CIA was in sole possession of first place with Beta A and B, Pika A, 
Phi Kappa Theta B and Sigma Nu anxiously awaiting Saturday finals.
Saturday’s races drew the largest buggy crowd in recent years. Several alumni teams, 
the first all-female push team from Pi Lambda Phi, a moose-shaped buggy from Lambda 
Sigma Delta and a mail room cart entered by the Campus Printing Office all preceeded 
CIA’s attempt to hang on to their first day lead. When the dust cleared Beta’s “Echo” 
occupied first place followed by Pika A, CIA, Beta B, Sigma Nu, and Phi Kap.
The non record-setting time of 2:20, well above the 2:17.8 time of last year, was 
blamed on the cool weather which adversely affected the pushers.
The Buggy Design competition was held Thursday at the gym. To be considered for a 
design trophy, organizations must finish in the top half of the finishing field. This year 
Delta Tau Delta. SDC, and SAE all finished below the top half and thus were disqualified 
from the design competition.
Last year’s winner, “Echo,” Beta’s A team entry, again captured first honors. CIA’s 
“Black Magic” took second and first time entry “Scorpion” from Sigma Nu, took third.
Crime link exposed?
by Ed Sullivan
After years of frustration and near first 
place finishes, Beta Theta Pi pulled a very 
unusual coup in Sweepstakes 1978. Bela 
finished first in both design and in the 
important buggy race. They managed to 
hold off strong challenges from last year’s 
champion Pi Kappa Alpha and the alwa> - 
strong CIA. While the course record wa^ 
not broken this year, the race had enough 
excitement to keep the spectators more
than occupied.
Sweepstakes Chairman Gerd Beckmann 
stated that “while the course record was 
not broken this year, it was a very safe, 
very exciting race.”
The final six teams which made it 
thiough the first day races included 
Pika-A. CIA-A, Sigma Nu-A, Beta-B and 
Phi Kappa Theta-B. In order to get to the 
finals, however, these teams had to face 
continued • paoe ?5
by Caroline Hayes
Last week,, the TARTAN received an 
anonymous letter that made incriminating 
accusations toward Vein Bish, the former 
Director of Housekeeping. The House­
keeping Department is responsible for 
clean-up and maintenance duties. Bish be­
gan to work for CMU in October, 1977, 
after he was fired from Shadyside Hospital. 
CMU asked him to leave the job here one 
month ago.
The letter to the TARTAN made six 
major accusations:
1. Bish purchased over $22,000 in supplies 
that should have cost only half that much.
2. He hired a “specialty team” of eight 
friends, and took care of punching their 
time cards for eight hours work when they 
really did less.
3. He told employees that they could work 
overtime whenever they felt like it, and 
just look busy or stay out of sight.
4. He switched the majority of his staff to 
a night shift at the time when the coal 
shortage was most critical.
5. He left the school with thousands of 
dollars in supplies that it can’t use.
6. He spent thousands of dollars on clean 
up with no apparent improvement in the 
cleanliness of the class rooms.
A high level CMU administrator told the 
TARTAN that most of the accusations in 
the letter were accurate, and that Bish de­
finitely had strong connections with or­
ganized crime. President Cyert told the 
TARTAN, “We discovered him doing 
things we didn’t like.”
news ...
The nil • ’* ' ' > •
Brother Dominic rolls to cam pu s( page 6)
features
( FA job huntingpage II)
enterta'rment ...
. AH» licerti page 2U)
1 SIX Gung Show (page 20
folio...
Black Rose (page 13)
sports...
Truk results!page 25)
M>»re buggv(Page 2\>

---------------------------------------------------

page 2 - TARTAN - April 18, 1978
The SDC space
by Caroline Stewart
At this week’s SDC meeting, plans foi 
the SDC Booth, Buggies, and the othei 
Spring Carnival related activities were dis­
cussed at length. Abby Soloman, Co-Chair- 
P" on of the Booth Committee, asked for 
volunteers to help finish building and 
painting the booth. She also asked that all 
representatives sign up to run the booth. 
Carolyn Welty asked every representative 
to spend an hour helping with the other 
Carnival activities.
Money was allocated to Booth Commit­
tee for prizes and miscellaneous expenses. 
Bill Reiner discussed the preparations for 
Buggy. A motion was unanimously passed 
to allocate money for the Buggy T-shirts 
and the U-Haul truck. The social Commit­
tee requested $3,200 for the Carnival Dance; 
the motion was passed unanimously.
Corey Chase, Resident Director of the 
Hill Dorms, announced that Morewood 
Gardens would be locked during Carnival 
in order to prevent people on the Midway 
from sleeping in the lobby. He added that 
he hoped Donner Hall would also be locked 
for the same reason.
The private party regulations were a- 
mended this week. The rules were restated 
so that: any advertised party can solicit 
donations but they cannot be manditory 
for students attending; an unadvertised 
party is not required to be open to all Dorm 
residents; the Vice-Presidents must inspect 
all advertised parties in their areas. Party 
petitions will have a specific form designed 
by SDC. These forms will be available 
through the Vice-Presidents. All parties 
must meet these requirements and regula­
tions before SDC will fund them. The new 
regulations will be printed in the TARTAN 
at the beginning of each semester.
Carolyn Welty read Dr. Cyert’s letter- 
concerning on-campus housing. Cyert asked 
those students to voice their complaints at 
a meeting to be held Tuesday, April 25, at 
3:30 PM. Welty then asked all the repre­
sentatives to please try and attend this 
meeting.
The dunking 
of a 
Beta
The lure 
of "Carnival"
by Mike Snizek
Imagine being young, unattached and 
from a small Southern town. You have 
just gotten out of high school, probably 
have not graduated and if you are lucky, 
you might find work in a coal mine. 
You hear from a friend that a carnival 
company needs some men to work for 
them, that the pay is not bad and that 
you can see every State Fair from Ken­
tucky to Vermont, you just do not jump 
at the opportunity, you run after it.
Every CMU student must have asked 
himself, where do they ever get those 
guys who run the rides at Carnival?
According to Coordinator of Rides 
for the East Coast Shows amusement 
company, Linda Kapcha, most of the 20 
or so men assigned to the CMU Spring 
Carnival are unmarried, 20-25 years of age, 
and for the most part,“have not worked 
for the company very long and probably 
won’t stay much longer either.”
“They love the call of the carnival- 
the constant excitement , pretty girls, 
new towns, all of it. Most of the men 
are from small towns and have never had 
the chance to see so many different kinds 
of people. I guess the one thing they 
have to learn to like is the constant mo­
bility. Most stay for a few trips, to see if 
they can handle the movement. Those 
who love it stay on for the rest of the 
year. Those who don’t, well, they just 
go somewhere else.”
East Coast Shows has been doing the 
CMU Spring Carnival for the past ten 
years. Centered in Washington, Penn­
sylvania and established in 1955, the 
company provides carnival rides for a var­
iety of local, State and Agricultural Fairs 
all over the Eastern part of the United 
States.'
Safety is a very important factor in any 
Carnival operation, with machinery costing 
anywhere from a $30,000 kiddie ride to 
the West German import, the $500,000
"Carneys'' close Carnival '78.
“Enterprise,” the company must provide 
safe adequate service or their reputation 
will slip and they will be forced out of 
business. According to Ms. Kapcha, “Most 
states have very strict guidelines concerning 
the safety of amusement equipment. 
New York, for example, is very tough. 
They send out State inspectors. Penn­
sylvania, however, has no such state or 
municipal regulations. We do all of our 
own inspections and have had only two 
serious accidents in our nearly quarter of 
a century of operation.”
For the most part, the company em­
ploys a wide range of transient individuals 
who enjoy the freedom, excitement, 
uncertainty and relatively easy life of the 
“carny.”
Jury Mavis is one of those individuals. 
Involved with a wide assortment of car­
nivals for the past 17 years, Jury is un­
married, a Texas resident and says, “I love 
to travel, meet girls and have a good time.” 
Employed as a security guard from De­
cember to March when the carnival is 
closed for winter, Jury enjoys the bigger 
State Fairs because “they have cattle and
hogs, you know.**
School officials prevent the East Coast 
Co. personnel from boarding near or on 
school grounds during carnival weekend. 
All workers commute from the company 
headquarters in Washington, Pennsylvania.
Most men are unmarried but for the few 
that are, life on the road is tough. The 
constant noise and dirt of the machinery 
takes its toll. Living for the most part 
in motor homes and trailers, the carnival 
life for the married couple is one of con­
stant movement, lack of privacy and an 
endless stream of hot dogs and Coke for 
dinner.
Turnover rates are high as the mono­
tonous string of engagements run on 
through the summer. According to Ms. 
Kapcha “the work is really not too bad. 
Outside of setting up and tearing down the 
rides on the first and last days, the men 
just run them, collect tickets and try not to 
get too bored. We run the gamut from col­
lege kids in the summer to men who know 
how to do nothing else at all. I guess some 
of them really do like the life of the 
“carny.”
DISTINCTIVE ROWERS AND GIFTS
4705 CENTRE /VENUE IN CAKLAN0 
PITTSBURGH, Ftt 15213 4126874200

---------------------------------------------------

April 18. 1978 - TARTAN - page 3
The Red Wings out-jousted Delta Upsilon in the Plank Joust l-inals. 
Mudgkins was the third team which competed. Congratulations to Red Wings 
Joe Sutliff. Charlie Krank, Brian Bowman. Pete Bond and Ken Inscoe.
Carnival scenes '78
Diane Dettig weighed in at 1100 pounds—along with Rich Kort, Bob Hon, Bob Mtz- 
gerald, Mark Fox,Paul Kneuven , and John Ousterhout. These 7 Jive Turkeys muddied 
the Red Wings in the Tug of War final*. Pictured above are the Red Devils.
Left-One Ultimate Frisbe- 
er shows how it's done. 
Right—A most unique bu(^ 
gy entrv!
l/JOUJ'MAV -SOME 
l/JOU'M'/A V-MS
\ Y&AH...
M EOYV u/A/r 
\ &H. rue uexrOAjer
r ¦* mmf* r, • /> it
*7 •rr " rT+>"'r"!AT~'r', ft •¿tJ H 'IZ’.Ll * ujf'i +W.7."‘ J/ jj;f>. y,//'///
J
mQ
KEAJ, use'/?e
S&AJI0RS. THIS TIME 
MG XT '/£AK wE'lL 
B£ UJ0RK//06 AT OOH 
JV&S.
I' ////// //,// •// /' /, */ #?' V f* 9 • **4
i / li / / v/V'/ >'M• ' /, 4, -,,,0V ‘ rrvr '¦.» .i 1•. ///*/.« •> • / a tv/'' 'W'.'.'}(!//.v•£/
E
/¦/.
5
new
15^=1
K£M?
MAV&E /F / FLUMKEt> HV 
eAJat/SH FWAL.
7 A"'.. '"///' '/ '» //'/'*> i y •> /# >4 ?'/'//»
V
-1—X1
-rJp>t

---------------------------------------------------

page 4 - TARTAN - April 18, 1978
Gazorcher madness 
inundates campus
by Andrew Ragan
The crazy and unique event of gazorch- 
ing helped kick off the Friday afternoon 
activities at 1:00 PM on the cut.
A large, curious, and enthusiastic crowd 
gathered around the make-shift gazorching 
field which extended from the edge of 
Skibo (Forbes Avenue side) to the sidewalk 
in front of the fence.
A gazorch is made of a long, elastic, 
rubber-like material which can be used like 
an oversized slingshot. With a team member 
holding tightly to each end, another team 
member pulls back as far as possible on 
the middle, which is loaded with some type 
of “missile.”
The Gazorching contest on Friday after­
noon required water balloons. The compe­
tition included distance and accuracy cate­
gories. First Place in the Accuracy Compe­
tition was Pi Kappa Alpha, while the dis­
tance championship was reportedly claimed 
by a group of physics students.
It seems as though most of the people 
watching took more interest in a group of 
renegade gazorchers who took positions on 
the side lines and began gazorching contes­
tants and observers. Although the distur­
bance (which appeared to be enjoyed by 
all) was soon quelled, perhaps it paved the 
way to what many considered the most en­
joyable part of the gazorching fun-the 
free-for-all in the field. Here, at least twenty 
teams of gazorchers took up strategic pos­
ition against their favorite rivals and squared 
off to destroy each other with balloons 
filled with water. It ended with a lot of wet 
casualties who had a lot of fun.
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh
April 19, 1978 
DR. H. JAMES HARWOOD
Institute of Polymer Science 
University of Akron 
POLYMER CHARACTERIZATION BY HIGH FIELD 
NMR SPECTROSCOPY
Joint meeting with the polymer section, ACS 
8:30 p.m. Ouquesne University 
Mellon Science Bldg., Maurice Falk Lec ture Hall 
MEETING OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED
1978-79 HOUSING INFORMATION
DEADLINE THURSDAY, APRIL 20,1978
1 .All Students who paid their deposit before Mar­
ch 4, 1978, should have selected a room and 
signed a Housing Agreement.
2.Students who wis a refund of the $100.00 
deposit must bring a letter requesting same, as 
well as their copy of the receipt and Agreement 
to the Housing Office.
Failure to meet the deadline above may result in 
the forfeiture of the deposit as well as no room 
being reserved for you for next fall.
According to Neil Tobenkin, judge, the B-Wing Bombers took 1st and 2nd place in gazorching distance. 
Pika's bulls eye was 1st for accuracy, TX was a close second.
in anticipation of Commencement on May 1 5 when the Univer­
sity honors graduates and their parents, the staff of Physical 
Plant will be working to try and re-establish a healthy stand of 
grass on the Cut and on the Fine Arts lawn. The past winter has 
been particularly hard on the grass because of the heavy snow 
cover and problems with snow mold. Effective immediately 
Physical Plant will b e working at conditioning the lawns, trying 
to re-seed areas.
The University asks that students refrain from active sports on 
the Cut and on the Fine Arts lawn until after Commencement. 
The mall between Baker and Doherty may be used as an alter­
nate play area for those activities which traditionally have been 
taking place on the cut.
Security officers have been instructed to enforce the ban on 
playing on the Cut and Fine Arts lawn. I would appreciate the 
cooperation of all students in this effort to restore the campus 
lawns to as attractive a state as possible in time for Com­
mencement.
Boring Summer Blues?
We've got a solution! 
For $12.50 a week you could be flying, 
whether you're just starting out or rekindling 
an old flame. We can provide you with an airplane 
You don't have to be Superman. All students, faculty, 
alumni and staff of CMU are welcome.
Meet with us
Tech Flying Club 
Wednesday 
April 19 
7 30 PM 
Skibo Room 45
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

April 18, 1978 - TARTAN - pajae 5
Enrollment deadline extension suggested
High schoo! seniors pondering the 
choice of a college for next September 
should not be coerced into a quick de­
cision, according to the Pennsylvania As­
sociation of College Admissions Coun­
selors (PACAC).
Each spring, colleges routinely notify 
students of their acceptance and ask for a 
deposit to secure a place in the freshman 
class. However, since colleges have differ­
ent admissions schedules, students will of­
ten be asked to make a deposit, at one 
school before they have heard from all the 
schools to which they have applied.
PACAC urges students who are faced 
with an enrollment deposit deadline to 
request an extension on their payment un­
til May 1. “Students have the right to 
request a payment postponement until 
they have learned of admissions and fi­
nancial aid decisions from every college
to which they have applied, or until 
May 1, whichever is sooner,” stated 
PACAC president Sarah Heckscher of 
Philadelphia’s Springside School. “Stu-* 
dents, parents or guidance counselors 
should contact college admissions officers 
directly with such requests,” she adds.
The agreement to use May 1 as a com­
mon candidate’s reply date is endorsed by 
both the College Board and the National 
Association of College Admissions Coun­
selors. Not all schools abide by the decision 
to use a cbmmon reply date, but most 
will comply with a request for an exten­
sion.
William Elliott, Vice Provost for En­
rollment planning, notes that a federally^ 
mandated change in financial aid applic­
ation and assessment procedures is causing 
a delay at most schools this year. “The 
amount of the financial aid available to a
prospective student can be a critical fac­
tor in the final choice of a school, and 
since notification on these awards has 
been delayed this year, many students and 
their parents feel forced to reach a de­
cision before they have received complete 
information,” Elliott says. “Since the
deposits are normally $100 and non- 
refundable students often feel obligated to 
attend the first school from which they
hear, rather than wait to make a deposit 
and possibly sacrifice admission to that 
school,” .he adds.
"Poetry on the Buses" funded
The Department of Transportation has 
awarded a $62,225 grant to the Poetry on- 
the Buses program at CMU. Part of the 
grant will be used to introduce the program 
to four cities: Boston, Atlanta, Detroit and 
San Francisco. The rest of the funds will go 
to augment the program in those cities 
where it is already in use. Pittsburgh, Phil­
adelphia and Washington, D.C.
Poetry on the Buses was established in 
1974 to present American poets and artists
PhD’s in EE or CS:
Now you can have it all at TI
in BIG D.
We are the Equipment Group of Texas Instruments.We re talking to PhD’s in EE or CS about opportunities as systems Engineers and Digital Hardware/Software Designers.Now you can have it all.
Advanced Work In State-Of-The-Art Fields.
These are projects in design and development that will utilize Tl’s industry-leading technology in many fields:• Electro-optical sensors • Radar«Air traffic control * Navigation • Communications • ASW• Weapon guidance • Fire control
The Stability Off A Highly Diversified Company.Since 1946, TI has maintained a compound average growth rate of more than 23% in net sales ana net income.In 1977, net sales billed for government elec­tronics increased 19% over 19/6.TI is, and always has been, a company man­aged by engineers and scientists. Its commit­ment to research and development was backed
up by a $96 million invest­ment in 1977 alone, a 33% increase over 1976.TI facilities now include 45 manufacturing plants in 18 countries and 50 product distribution centers in North America, Europe and Asia.
A Rich City With A Low Cost Of Living.Dallas is Tl’s home town. It’s the heart of the South- west’s largest and liveliest metro center—the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. It is rich in culture, entertainment and environmental advantages. These include two civic w>era companies, the World Champion Dallas Cowboys, the cleanest air and the lowest population density of any of the largest U.S. metro areas. The area also has 34 colleges and 102 major medical facilities.At the same time, Dallas is an unusually affordable place to live. There are no state and local income taxes. And the cost of living is 9% 
below the U.S. average. '
it s all at TI in Big D waiting for you.Send your resume to Ed Haynes,Box 6015, MS 222, Dallas, TX 75222.
s.(fa ntaur'm.tua
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F
to a broad segment of the public. Original 
poems and artwork are displayed on pla­
cards which are interspersed with adver­
tising posters on buses, trolleys and sub­
ways.
Frances Balter, executive director of 
Poetry on the Buses, believes that poetry 
on buses will offer “mass exposure” for 
contemporary poets and artists.
‘The program will help create a more 
pleasant atmosphere for transit riders, in­
crease the demand for advertising space, 
and help to make our society a warmer, 
more personal and more human one,” she 
says.
The funds were awarded under Section 
6 of the Urban Mass Transportation Act ol 
1964. Poetry on the Buses is also support­
ed by funds from the Pennsylvania Council 
on the Arts, the National Endowment foi 
the Arts, the Rittenhouse Foundation, the 
Samuel S. Fels Fund, and by in-kind con 
tributions from the transit systems them* 
selves.
The poetry cards wil be made available 
to the cities in September.
Proficiency test 
administered
The Department of Modem Languages 
and Literature will administer proficiency 
tests in French, German, Spanish and Rus­
sian on Saturday, April 29, at 10:30 AM, 
in the language laboratory (Margaret Mor­
rison 310).
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge. The test takes 95 
minutes.
Students who demonstrate competence 
at the intermediate level will satisfy their 
college and/or department requirements in 
a foreign language. (Undergraduate only)
Students wishing to take one ot these 
tests should sign up in the Modem Lan­
guages Department Office, Baker Hall 
232-C, before Friday, April 28.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL- 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
PASSOVER INFORMATION
SEDER
FRIDAY, APRIL 21
Services: 6:30 p.m..
Seder following$5.50
3rd floor,
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Passover meals at
B’nai B’rith Hillel, Monday 
through Friday, and home 
hospitality are available.
Call 621 8875 for seder and meal 
reservations and other information.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE 
(ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621 8875
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR’S HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 6 - TARTAN — April 18, 1978
x.
SUMMER 1978 HOUSING: INFORMATION
Applications Now Available
Henderson and Welch Halls as well as • 
the Doherty Apartments are available < 
for students who wish to remain on i 
Campus May 15th through August 3, 
1978. For further information see Mrs. 
Gardner in the Housing Office.
Deadline for applications is Friday, April 28,1978.
STUDENT SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
The following positions are available to C-MU students for employment this summer in the 
Housing operation at Carnegie-Mellon University:
1. Assistant to Maintenance Coordinator - establish inventories, prepare maintenance schedules, per­
form maintenance inspections and related duties. Mechanical aptitude desirable. * $4.00/hr.
2. Housing Office Clerical Assistant - assist in registering and assigning summer conferences, assist in 
the processing of freshman applications and other clerical duties. - $3.30/hr.
3.Building Maintenance Helpers (4) - assist Housing building maintenance workers in comprehensive 
summer maintenance projects. Mechanical aptitude desirable - $3.50/hr.
4. Housing Laborers (8) - perform custodial duties, cleaning, washing, painting, furniture moving, 
groundswork and related duties. - $3.50/hr.
Students interested in any of the above positions should complete the following application and 
bring it to the Housing Office in Morewood Gardens.
Name
ClassUniv. Dept.
Campus AddressCampus Phone
Permanent AddressPermanent Phone
Positions of Interest:Financial Aid Status:
Assist, to Maint. Coord.Financial Aid
Building Maint. HelperNo Financial Aid
Housing Office Clerical Asst.Workstudy
Housing LaborerNon-Workstudy
Available fromto
Qualifications
C-MU it an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
Search committee excludes students
by Stuart Seidman
The Department of Architecture has es­
tablished a search committee to help find a 
Department Head. This committee met for 
the first time last week and will recom­
mend candidates to the University admin­
istration by December 31.
The new committee was appointed by 
Akram Midani, Dean of the College of Fine 
Arts, in early March.. Robert Taylor, Acting 
Head of Architecture, is the committee 
chairman. Other committee members are 
Charles Eastman, Architecture, SUPA; 
Howard Saalman, Architecture; Richard 
Gensert, Architecture; James Romualdi, 
Civil Engineering; David Klahr, Psychology; 
and Joel Tarr, History and SUPA.
A major criticism voiced by the stu­
dents in the Architecture Department is 
the lack of student members on the com­
mittee. Midani commented that, “There is
no reason for not having students,” but 
that it was his arbitrary decision.
When questioned about the non-archi­
tects on the committee, Midani said that, 
“I trust their integrity as members of this 
community” and that they could “act as 
critics” and rule on the “viability 
of candidates as leaders.”
Midani continued that he expects the 
committee to meet from time to time with 
students, faculty, and alumni to gain ad­
ditional input.
According to Taylor, the Search com­
mittee will meet throughout the summer 
months to save time.
The Department of Architecture has 
been without a Department head for near­
ly two years. Taylor was appointed Acting 
Head in June 1976 and has since begun 
many new programs for the Department
Dominic bounces into town
Carnegie-Mellon was visited over Spring Break by Jack Eagle who has been, in recent times, more 
commonly known as Brother Dominic. This is due to his role in the award-winning TV commercial 
where he portrays this^renowned monk. The commercial promotes Xerox's 9200 duplicator by con­
trasting its labor-saving merits with monks,duplicating scrolls by hand, one at a time—the epitome of 
tedium. Jack Eagle,as Brother Dominic exclaims/'lt's a Miracle" after witnessing the 9200's awesome 
speed.
Pictured in the above photo, with Eagle, are Karen Guzak, on the left, and Michael Minyon, on the 
right. These students are responsible for the mural shown in the photo background above, which oc­
cupies the wall of Campus Printing just behind the University's own 9200 duplicator. The mural was 
painted last year without publicity; but as a result of the periodic visits of Xerox service men, word 
got back to Xerox who, in turn, contacted Jack Eagle. Eagle, who according to Karen, is at least as 
jocular off camera as he appears on, decided to pay the artists a visit. Pleased with the likeness, he gave 
the students "It's a Miracle" T-shirts and showed off his own.

---------------------------------------------------

April 18, 1978 - TARTAN - page 7
cyert/open forum
students invited to chat with president cyert
p.s. bring your lunch and a friend.
thursday april 20 12:30pm 
wherrett room
sponsored by : 
campus program 
planning

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Revamp Registration
The registration process is too disorganized and outdated 
for the University as it is today. Some departments do not 
accurately gauge student interest in the classes they offer. 
AMS cannot accommodate all the students who want to 
take Accounting and Organizational Behavior. The Mecha­
nical Engineering Department did not have enough spaces in 
their required Thermodynamics class for juniors, so some 
students were placed in sections of Analysis, Synthesis and 
Evaluation, a course required second semester of the junior 
year. Though these two courses can be taken out of 
sequence, one Mech. E. said, "I won't know as much as / 
should to take A.S.E. ” And the History Department often 
accommodates the overflow of students, but at a price of 
overcrowded sections. Some History classes have upwards of 
60 students.
Additionally, there are simple logistics which n&ed exam­
ination. To insure space in desired courses, students have 
taken to camping out in lines where competition for regis­
tration is high. The lines themselves are too long. AMS, 
Electrical Engineering and English are notorious for their 
long lines.
And worse yet, because of the greater number ot students 
attending the University, not only are the lines long, but the 
advising process for course selections has become a quick, 
mechanical process. So often a student will walk in to his 
advisor with a list of desired courses and the advisor will 
sign the class order form without asking why the student 
wants those Darticular courses.
However, the major fault in registration lies in the tact 
that the individual departments control the process oy 
which students register for courses. There is no orderly req- 
istration process outlined tor them, so departments rarely 
have the chance to benefit from lessons learned by other 
departments. There is no central authority to direct the 
process, as well as to aid departments in gauging demand for 
their courses. Departmental registration was nice when there 
were fewer students in the University, less emphasis placed 
on work outside the major, and fewer double majors, requir­
ing courses outside their home departments. Although per 
sonal service is nice, the registration process can no longer 
be handled in this manner. We need centralized registration.
Registar Harry Whitehead stated that he is seriously 
considering some form of centralized registration. One sys­
tem under consideration invoivesarena registration, where all 
departments will be represented in one room, and students 
go around from desk to desk registering for courses. The 
other system is computer-assisted registration, in which stu­
dents send in a selection of first and second choice sched­
ules. The computer tries to fill the first choices and if it 
can’t, gives students the alternate choices. Whitehead added 
that this latter system cannot go into use until the installa­tion ot the DEC computers is completed next year.
We believe arena registration should be implemented for 
the next registration period, and remain in use only until 
computer-assisted registration is available. Arena registration 
should run like enrollment, where everyone is assigned a 
time by lottery, so that confusion does not arise. Both 
methods will help streamline the registration process, but 
the computerized system is ideal because it eliminates all 
lines. We feel that, given present estimates, there is no rea­
son why CMU should not be using computer-assisted regis­
tration by the fall of 1979.
Before these changes occur, we need a better guage of 
student demand for courses, so an appropriate number 
ot spaces will be available. It might be useful tor students to 
meet with their advisors several weeks before registration to 
discuss in general their curriculum for the rest of college, 
and specifically their selection of choices for the next se­
mester. To do this, each department would have to publish 
a list of course offerings (as opposed to a schedule of class­
es) early. Advisors would then alert the appropriate depart­
ment of student interest in a course offered. Then a sched­
ule of classes could be devised. It sounds complicated, but it 
both improves the quality of the advising, and increases the 
quantity of spaces in a class when necessary.
We want the administration to act, not merely consider 
the registration problem. We need help in eliminating 
the chaos and the animal-like behavior which goes on in or­
der to insure spaces in classes. We need a closer approxima­
tion of demand for classes, in order to insure an adequate 
number of places. The administration always says it wants 
to give students their money’s worth. We’re paying alot of 
money to go to class. In our minds, getting your money’s 
worth is getting the courses you want and need, to have the
best education possible. _ . _ ..Saul Carlmer
Managing Editor
Research in Siology
Dear Editor:
I wish to protest what I think 
is unequal consideration and to 
point out the error in last weeks’ 
headline: Cancer Research Begins 
at CMU.
In the first place, CMIR is part 
of CMU in name only and is a sort 
of leftover from merger with Mel­
lon Institute and has no contact 
with students. I am surprised that 
your staff knew of the existence 
of CMIR and I doubt that many 
students know what it is. Second­
ly and most importantly, cancer 
research is being carried out by 
Biology faculty at CMU and has 
been for at least the past five 
years. This research is directly 
concerned with determining how 
cancer works and is carried out by 
people who are at the top in their 
field. Although it is not too wide­
ly known on campus, the Biology 
Department has a good reputation 
for its strength in research and in 
training students for research.
In short, if you want to tell the 
students about cancer research at 
CMU, I think you should start
with the Biology Department. I 
have to wonder how the CMIR 
article was initiated and why it 
was printed, other than for public 
relations. And it you think your 
readers might be interested in yet 
another article on cancer research 
or perhaps just on the Biology de­
partment I would be happy to 
provide the contacts or informa­
tion.
Sincerely, 
Kim Poffenberger 
Senior in Biological Sciences
Kim:
The TARTAN will be contact­
ing you this week about an article.
The Editor
A Good Thing Gone
Editor:
I am very happy that you ran 
the article “English Department 
Cans Art of Persuasion.** It con- 
firms something that I have OnOc 
pected for quite some time. That 
is, if a course is the least bit inter­
esting, relevant, or enjoyable it 
will be dropped form the curricul­
um.
Although I am not familiar 
with the course, I can tell from 
the article that its only faults are 
not just being interesting and en­
joyable. The course appears to be 
graded fairly. It seems that Mr. 
Goldman has not gone along with 
the other professors here at CMU 
and made completely arbitrary 
distinctions between his students, 
resulting in a random distribution 
of grades. If he feels that a stud­
ent deserves an A or a B he gives 
them one. He has violated one of 
the most important rules here. He 
has refused to fit students into 
completely arbitrary grade curves.
I feel that this is the main rea­
son for the cancellation of his 
course. Professor Hayes admits 
this when she refers to the inor­
dinately high number of A*s and 
B’s Mr. Goldman gives out. I find 
the argument difficult to accept, 
at a school where professional ed­
ucation is so highly touted. I my­
self, sometimes find it hard to de­
cide whether I am attending a 
highly regarded trade school or a 
university. Therefore I do not find 
the “too professional” complaint 
valid.
TARTAN
Volume 78April 18, 1978 
Edltown-Chiet Jetfrev ZasloM#
Number 26
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
News Editors;
Features Editor: 
Assistant News & Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor;
Folio Editor:
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Production Assistant: Marsha Fairbrother
Assistant News Editor: Mike Snizek
Assistant Photography Editor: Skip Brazelton_____
Saul Carliner 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Stephanie Waite 
Jean Pellegrini 
Brian Byrnes 
Linda Deak 
Elliot Ohlberg 
Joan Livitski 
Karen Y aksich 
Ed Sullivan 
V.R.V. Ràmanan 
Timothy Wenk
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN. The Fditorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Fditorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578 2111.
__________ ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
I would like to commend Mr. 
Goldman both for his integrity 
and for trying to show students at 
this school what a fairly graded, 
interesting, and enjoyable course 
is truly like.
Bradley Dean 
Of the People
Editor:
Regarding David Mongeau’s 
and Frank Smoot’s letter of April
11, 1978. I look at it this way: 
Certainly we’ve all been aware of 
the general incompetence that ex­
ists within most of Student Gov­
ernment. But at least we know 
that the government is a represen­
tative one.
David G. Roussos
?
A Not-So-Stale Matter 
Editor:
To rehash an old subject, I 
direct my letter to Gerald Dalton 
of Housing. The purpose lies with­
in .a letter which my roommate 
and I received on January 25, 
1978, which stated:
At the present time your ac­
commodation is being occupied 
by fewer persons than the number 
of occupants for which it was de­
signated. We, therefore, are exer­
cising our right under Section 8 of 
your Housing License Agreement 
and increasing your spring term 
charges to reflect this additional 
privilege.
Each resident of your accomo­
dation should sign this from under 
one of the options listed below 
and return the form to the Housing 
Office. Failure to return the form 
will result in your charges being 
increased automatically.______
To begin with, where all the 
people that he believes need to 
have rooms? There are many va­
cant spaces on campus. When I 
arrived for spring semester, my 
roommate and I were living alone 
in a 4-person unit located in Do­
herty House basement. Exercising 
his “right” he states that we have 
three options. First, we can suc­
cumb to his rude attitude and pay 
$85 each so that we don’t have to 
change our living arrangments to 
;uit two more people. He then has 
the gall tcrsuggest that we may still 
have another person assigned. The 
second option is that we pay $85 
each and “that if’ the room is 
filled, we will receive a “pro-rated” 
refund. His condescending atti­
tude reaches a peak of rudeness 
when he suggests in part 3, that if 
I don’t like it, I can move out.
Who does he think he is?
Not only does he treat me and 
everyone else he encounters with 
his God-like attitude, he fails to 
understand that the students here 
have enough problems without his 
harrassments. 1 was billed for $85. 
His attitude plus lack of respect 
makes me indignant.
The state of my apartment is 
the main reason why I do not 
think that we should pay the ad­
ditional $170. Our apartment is 
very nice because we have a bit 
more space than we expected and 
because of the lovely color of the 
kitchen counters. Besides that, 
there are a few truly wonderful 
things about it. All the hot water 
and steam pipes for the building 
run (uninsulated) through our 
apartments. These pipes are con­
tinually ranging around 250°. All 
the j^ants we own are practically
dead. We had all the heat off all 
winter and we were still going 
from very hot inside to very cold 
outside. Needless to say, very un­
healthy business. We also had to 
'buy a humidifier because of the 
dryness created by the heat. In 
the beginning of March, Doherty 
House suffered a total blackout 
for two days approximately. I re­
alize that this is Duquesne Light’s 
business, but we were offered ab­
solutely no assistance. They did 
not even call to see if we in the 
basement were alright. We have 
two windows on one side of our 
apartment. More than half of our 
apartment was in total darkness. 
Some people in the basement 
have no windows at all. There also, 
occurred, twice, hot water shut 
off for more than a day each. 
There are no blinds or curtain 
rods in our windows. The whole 
of one of the towers can look in 
our apartment if they choose. To 
top it all off, our lovely kitchen is 
nothing but a box since it has no 
ventilation.
I protest! I should not have to 
pay $85! I think it unfair, unnec­
essary, and most of all, the ploy 
of a bureaucratic man. He is dis­
honest also. There is a witnessed 
account of him refusing an upper- 
classwoman, paying exorbitantly 
for her apartment, a contract 
break, when he had just granted a 
freshwoman a contract break. This 
is against CMU policy.
The only person in Housing 
who has had any sympathy or 
grace towards all, is Doug Gross. 
As an added point, I suggest that 
he be given Gerald Dalton’s job. He 
has been there longer, treats the 
students like human beings and
even takes the time to know your 
name instead of your bank 
account.
Brigid Loftus 
Doherty House Apartments
'Cut" Rate Price
Editor:
In the April 11 issue of the 
TARTAN, tucked in the interior 
of the paper, is a small notice to 
the students to keep off the lawns 
until Commencement so that the 
grass will look nice in time for 
graduation.
This is just too much. It might 
seem like a small matter, but in 
reality it is another instance of 
the University ignoring the stu­
dents’ welfare and only worrying 
about their image.
We all know how nice it is to 
flip around a frisbee on the cut on 
a beautiful spring or fall afternoon. 
It’s the little things like this that 
makes life at CMU even enjoyable. 
And it always gives a warm feeling 
to know that spring is Finally here 
when you see everybody enjoying 
themselves out on the cut.
But the University wants the 
students to give up over 30 days 
of playing on the cut for a few 
days of “nice-looking grass” to 
impress the parents. We sure won’t 
be impressed. Where is the sense 
of values in all this? A university 
is for the students, it’s meant to 
serve them. We pay for that grass! 
The University will take away all 
of those opportunities for fun just 
to throw up a nice image. Does 
that sound familiar? It should, be- 
cause it’s been done to us before,
and it’ll happen again.
The cut is for us to enjoy. If 
grass was to look at, then put !t 
in a museum. If they’re worried 
about a nice image, hold com­
mencement in Carnegie Hall. But 
why should we give up all of our 
nice afternoons, the little bit of 
enjoyment we get here, to give a 
“nice impression”. We’re not 
paying $6000 a year for nice 
impressions!
President Cyert is concerned 
with the “social situation” on 
campus. Well, when you actually 
restrict the social activities of stu­
dents for aesthetic reasons, some­
body needs a course in either 
Ethics or Basic Psychology. It’s 
this same attitude of treating the 
students like objects which caused 
so much trouble in Housing this 
year. We are people, with human 
needs, and personalities which 
must be taken into consideration. 
We are not numbers or entries on 
an accounting sheet.
Why do we have to continually 
put up with this attitude of the 
Administration? Why can’t the 
Administration make a decision 
from the viewpoint of our welfare, 
instead of their stupid image? 
Isn’t a scrubby field worth hours 
of enjoyment to hundreds of stu­
dents? Can you price a sunset, or 
a nice afternoon, or a laugh? Is it 
worth one glance and a nice com­
pliment about the nice shade of 
the grass?
It’s the underlying principle 
here which is frustrating. Whoever 
makes these decisions better start 
thinking about us for a change. 
We shouldn’t have to put up with 
this for much longer. 
^^^^^jyj^gC^urda^rANNOUNCEMENTS¿.CLASSIFIED ADS
Passover Seder will be held Friday, April
21 at B'nai B'rith H il lei, 3rd floor, 315 
S. Bellefield. Passover meals, Monday- 
Friday, at H il lei, and home hospitality 
are also available. For more information 
and reservations, call 621-8875.
WANTED: Students for part time manage­
ment positions with University Food 
Service next year. Supervisory positions 
of Tartan Grill and both Cafeterias are 
available. Prior Food Service experience 
and management curriculum preferred, but 
not necessary. Apply in person at Food 
Service Office, Skibo Room 62-Wed. and 
Thurs. (4/19 & 4/20) between 5 and 7 PM
Summer sublet. May-Aug., furnished
Squirrel Hill apt., I bedroom, w/w, 
a/c. Call evenings 422-9179.
Want to spend the summer sailing the Car-
ribbean? The Pacific? Europe? Cruising 
other parts of the world aboard sailing or 
power yachts? Boat owners need crews! 
For free information send a 13:cent stamp 
to SKOKO, Box 20855, Houston, Texas 
77095
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh will
present Dr. H. James Harwood, of the 
Institute of Polymer Science, University 
of Akron, speaking on "Polymer Character­
ization by the High Field NMR Spectro­
scopy'', Wednesday, April 19, 8:30 PM, 
Maurice Falk Lecture Hall, Mellon Science 
Building, Duquesne University.
Overweight? Having trouble controlling 
you eating? University Overeaters Anony­
mous meets Mondays at 7:30 at the Uni­
versity and City Ministries Building, Fifth 
and Bel lef ield. No dues or fees. We care.
COLLEGE NIGHTS WITH THE PITTS- more information, call Brandi, x4879 or 
BURGH PIRATES! All students admitted Debbie. x4404.
to game for only $1 with ID at Gate D Counsellors, over 19 for unique overnight
The next college nights are Tuesday, April boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun- 
18, when the Bucks play the Phillies, and tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
Friday, April 21, when it's Pittsburgh of following Watersafety, Waterskiing, Arts
vs. St. Louis. and Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Basketball,
All CMU women graduates are eligible for Athletics, Lacrosse, Riflery, Ham Radio,
membership in the American Association Rocketry, Science, Archery, Tennis, Track,
of University Women (AAUW) which has Golf or Pioneering. Write Camp Director, 
branches throughout the United States 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, 
including five in the Pittsburgh area. Sen- PA 19444.
iors interested in knowing more about the Passover Seder and meals are available at
Association should contact Dean Lloyd B'nai B'rith Hillei. Call 62I 8875 for
—,i-, . r.v-'.n:-1 _,vv' ,'s"¦ 1 u) U" •.
To EVERYONE WHO HELPED
¦---- . > » - 1/.0- a’if Y ’
(BH 161) who serves as CMU's liason re­
presentative.
ATTENTION: All interested in practice
for cheerleader tryouts. Tuesday, April 18, 
Wednesday, April 19, and Thursday, April 
20. 9 PM— Morewood Rec Room. For
information.The Wildsisters ' Coffeehouse will present
Woody Simmons and Nancy Vogl playing 
bluegrass music, Thursday, April 27, 8:30 
PM, at the YWCA Building at 4th 
and Wood Streets. Admission is $3.00.
; ........TV, ^
WITH SPRING CARNIVAL
a
n
TH/\NK YOU ALL/
rrrr
CARNIVAL COMM VT TEE
7

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Bulletin Board
_ , Dav 1978, will be celebrated on
Thursday April 20 downtown in Market Thursday, o l i pm with anQnnarp between m fm anu 
inexpensive vegetarian lunch served- n t e 
oast three years Food Day has served to 
crease public awareness of suchibas.c o
- as nutritional education. 9
both domestic and global) and the present 
food production and distrubution system^ 
Various local food-related groups wiU be 
present to share information^ luncheon
rcMKt«-«Co-operative Association.
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will
showcase THAT IMPROV GROUP, with 
Ted Scheuch, Michael Pope and Martha 
Meissman on Friday night, April 21, at 
8:30 PM. This improvisional theater exper­
ience will play at the Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., Oakland. THE 
ALTERNATIVE is open each Friday night 
from 8 PM through midnight. For informa­
tion, call 682-6886.
The Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes
Avenue, will feature the works of Debbie 
Dobrar.^y, JoAnn Garcia, and Robert 
Martens (paintings, glasswork, metal craft, 
and weavings) through April 23. The gal­
lery is open I2-4 PM Wednesday through 
Sunday, and 7-9 PM Tuesday through 
Thursday evenings.
Job openings available for next year at the
Forbes Street Gallery. More information 
about applications and interviews - avail­
able at Skibo Information Desk.
EUROPE: Less than % economy fare.
Guaranteed reservations. Call toll-free (800) 
325-4867 or see your travel agent. Uni- 
Travel Charters.
Student Government Fund Committee will
meet April 24th. Anyone with a proposal 
for a program should contact Amy Boyle, 
687-0126.
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS
Seasonal and year-round clubs; good play­
ing and teaching background. Call (301) 
654-3770 or send 2 complete resumes and
2 pictures to Col R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 
Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy 
Chase, MD 20015.
A variety of free nature films are offered
every Saturday afternoon by the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History. Showing this 
week: The Winners, a film about insects. 
Films are shown at 1 PM in the Lecture Hall.
Good-looking, solid young man, Columbia
business school graduate, transferred to 
Pittsburgh, and very impatient with singles 
bars. Sincerely interested in meeting beau­
tiful, gracious and intelligent young lady 
in mid-20's. Sincere replies with photo 
only answered. Write S. H., P.O. Box 5351, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
¡WANTED: Three bedroom apartment Tor
September occupancy, near campus. Call 
Paul, 578-4384.
____ TiTM»«
re “n "Na,Ur!J
Hea,in9\°n ;r;StenttProf PUtlurgh. PM at the Unity Lente
located on 7110 Penn Ave. in Point Bree. 
near the corner of Penn and Lang. The lee 
ture will include various speakers on 
topic and admission by donation. During 
the event, nominations will be accepted 
officers for the local chapter of the Nat,on- 
a Health Federation. The lecture is co- 
ponsored by the National Health Federa­
tion and the Semple Street Food Co
operativeAss^rv
Limited supply of complimentary tickets
for upcoming Drama Department produc­
tion of The Death and Life of Jesse James,
by Len Jenkin, will be distributed today 
until 5 PM at the box office in the CFA 
lobby. I ticket per valid ID.
Audio components, televisions, car stereos,
CBs. 200 brands. Save up to 60%. Call 
Rick, 673-9368
EXIT INTERVIEWS for all MAY, 1978
Graduates with the National Defense/ 
Direct Student Loans and or/ Institutional 
Loans will be held from April 14 through 
April 28. The interviews will last approx­
imately five minutes and will be scheduled 
as follows: Cashier's Office, Warner Hall 
Concourse, Monday-Friday, 9-1, and 2-4. 
If unable to attend or for more informa­
tion call Mr. Rapin, 578-2094 or come to 
the Cashiers Office,Warner Hall Concourse.
President Richard Cyert will cont.nue to
have open office hours for students during 
the month of April. The next meeting will 
take place Thursday, April 20 between 
and 5 PM. Students who wish to meet wit 
the President should telephone his office, 578-2200 for an appointment between the 
hour of 3 and 4 PM;-the hour between 4 
and 5 PM will-be open for students who 
want to meet with the President but have
no appointment.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from l:30 to 3:30 PM,
German film based on Gerhart Hampt-
mann's Der Biberpelz. Wednesday, April 
19, 7 PM, DH 2210. Free.assTTTTHomegrown III: Pittsburgh Area Artists on
Plant Subjects—an open competition, jury 
selected show consisting of paintings, draw­
ings, prints, sculptures in wood and bronze, 
weaving and batik. April 24-September 15, 
Weekdays 9 AM - 5 PM. Hunt Institute, 
Penthouse of Hunt Library.
Kits containing information about the May
I5 Commencement should be4)icked up 
by graduate and undergraduate candidates 
at their departmental offices during the 
week of April 18. Five commencement 
invitations are included in each kit.
Your own room! Female roommate needed.
Inexpensive apartment in Shady side. 10 
minute walk. September lease_ 687-264T
Counsellors, over 19 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun­
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Arts 
and Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, 
Athletics, Lacrosse, Riflery, Ham Radio, 
Rocketry, Science, Archery, Tennis, Track, 
Golf or Pioneering. Write Camp Director, 
138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, 
PA 19444.
Summer jobs available at Kennywood
Amusement Park. Prospects must be inter­
viewed in person at the park to be eligible. 
Interviews conducted Monday-Friday, 4-6 
PM, and Saturdays, 9 AM-1 PM. Preference 
given to college students. For more inform­
ation, call: 461-0500.
^^CFORE^tf^^fsfTfySiT
plan to go home.over the summer vacation, 
be sure to get an 1-20 form before you leave 
since you will need it in order to come 
back to CMU in the Fall.
The Art for Passavant Committee will
accept artists' original paintings on Sunday, 
April 30, 1978, from 2 to 4 PM in the As­
sembly Hall of North Hills Passavant Hosp­
ital. Those paintings selected are exhibited 
throughout the hospital for 90 days. Last 
year alone 154 paintings were sold as a 
result of the exhibit. Passavant receives 
a percentage of the sale price of the paint­
ings. Requirements for exhibiting are: all 
works must be original, priced and titled, 
paintings must be larger than 8"- x 10”, 
paintings must be backed, framed and 
ready for hanging; and subject matter must 
be pleasing to patients and visitors. For 
further information, artists should contact 
the Auxiliary-Volunteer Office, 366-1000 
or 931-3840, Ext. 310.
WANTED: Stat. Student who desires a
few hours of employment per week through 
June and July. Call 441-8663.
Îv V-
theater arts maior planning to move to 
New York after graduation and in need 
a roommate, please contact me at RD3, 
Box 319-B, Pittsburgh, PA 15084, ny 
sincere replies P^ase-
"Christians Behind Bars, "a documentary
on religious persecution behind the iron 
curtain, will he presented Monday, April 
24, 7 PM, Skibo Room 45. For more infor­
mation, contact Charlie LaValle, 687 8627.
The CMU Law Club will meet this Thurs­
day, April 20 in Room 45, Skibo at 7 PM.
Anvone interested in law is invited.---------- IV'T"

---------------------------------------------------

-----
Fff ft vif f il1**1
FINE ARTS
New booklet aids 
CFA job hunting
by Linda Deak
“The romantic concept of artists, that 
it’s degrading to look for a job, should 
not be believed. That’s why we drew up a 
small booklet which helps our Fine Arts 
majors in the job search,” says Akram 
Midani, Dean of the College of Fine Arts.
The booklet he refers to, Presentation 
of Fine Arts Graduates, is the brand new 
handbook especially designed for Fine 
Arts graduates-to-be. The Council on 
Student Development and the College of 
Fine Arts published the 32 page booklet 
which includes hints on job hunting and 
preparing a resume or portfolio. The 
resumes printed in the booklet are in fact 
those of actual ’77 graduates who 
majored in architecture, art, costume 
design, drama, industrial design, and music.
CMU alumnus Monci Jo Williams wrote 
the text for the booklet, which was then 
edited by Swank and Midani and also 
Dennis Ryan of the Placement Office. Q 
Eddy designed the cover, and the copy was 
typeset by Miguel Santoni.
Midani claims that the idea for such a 
booklet was not new, and the actual impe­
tus to put it in print was associated with a 
grant given by the Anathan family, who 
expressed a desire to “use some of the 
money to help students identify job fields.”
Current seniors should not be surprised 
to find the booklet in their mailbox. 
Midani regrets that it is somewhat of 
hindsight for the ’78 graduating class, but 
he promises to mail the ’79 seniors their 
booklet early next fall.
For those who want to get a start on 
resumes or portfolios during the summer, 
.the hot-off-the-press booklets may now be 
picked up in the offices of Midani and 
Swank. The Fine Arts dean reiterates, “I 
have been after the job business since I 
became a dean and this booklet is the first 
step. To me, La Boheme is an opera, 
not a lifestyle.”
An impressive cover for CFA's booklet. The cream-colored publication is a good desk reference to 
have at your fingertips.
Akram Midani, College of Fine Arts Dean, encourages CFA majors to drop by his office and pick up a 
copy of the new job-hunting booklet.
FEATURES
REVIEW
Designer claims, 
"CFA'S booklet is 
a definite must."
by Marsha Fairbrother
For those of you Fine Arts graduates-to- 
be who are disappointed in the results of 
your present resume, and for those who are 
planning on writing one, a new booklet, 
Presentation of Fine Arts Graduates, has 
been prepared especially with your inter­
ests in mind (this includes artists, designers, 
architects, drama students and the like).
I have to admit I was a bit skeptical as 
to how useful this booklet could be to me. 
At first glance, it looked like another run- 
of-the-mill book on how to get that first 
important job after graduation. I was cer­
tain it wouldn’t contain any information I 
didn’t already know or hadn’t heard many 
times before. The first sentence seemed to 
confirm my conviction: “Job hunting is a 
frustrating, time consuming, and some­
times expensive proposition made more so 
by students who go about it haphazardly”.
It seems I was a bit wrong. The book 
provided me with vital information on 
how to write myself an effective resume, 
what to consider when putting together my 
portfolio, and how to present my work to 
future employers. I was also delighted to 
see helpful hints on how to get past those 
ever-pesty receptionists, what to say in my 
cover letters to companies and how to ap­
proach galleries with my work. Further 
sections not pertaining to my major, but certainly of interest to drama grads, musi­
cians, and architects, described photos for 
drama grads, audition tapes for musicians, 
and Pennsylvania licensing procedures for 
architects.
A special selection of sample resumes is 
included in the back of the book, as well as 
a reading list to help you in your search. 
All in all, I found Presentation of Fine Arts 
Graduates to be a well-prepared, easy read­
ing little booklet, a definite must for all 
Fine Arts graduates or graduates-to-be.
INSIDE WASHINGTON
Mitchell returns to Capitol Hill
by Frederic Siegel
When former Attorney General John 
Mitchell entered prison for his Watergate 
related crimes, he vowed never to set foot 
in Washington, D.C. again. However, Mit­
chell was forced to break his vow a few 
weeks ago when he testified in- front of the 
House committee on International Organi­
zations regarding the Korean influence- 
buying scandal.
When the very worn Mitchell limped in- 
t6 the committee room, one congressman, 
joked, “What shall we call him, Mr. Mit­
chell or 01755?” Forced to sit among 
many of his former enemies, Mitchell ap­
peared tired and heartless. His physical ap­
pearance matched his testimony, for he 
could not summon answers to many ques­
tions.
To compensate for his own embarrass­
ment, Mitchell succeeded in placing the 
finger on former speaker of the House, Carl 
Albert, and former Secretary of State, 
Kissinger, Mitchell stated that both 
Albert and Kissinger were very passive 
about the presence of Korean Central In­
telligence Agency agents in Congress.
Mitchell commented, **I went to the Hill 
to talk with Albert on the KCIA issue, but 
he had a passive reaction. He couldn’t be­
lieve that the two alleged congressional 
aides, Ckm Kwang and Suzi Park Thomp­
son, could be KCIA agents because they 
had such good American backgounds.**
Mitchell then blasted^Kissinger with the 
statement, “He was constantly being pro­
vided with information concerning Tong- 
sun Park (Korean millionaire lobbyist and 
alleged KCIA agent) and other foreign ser­
vice agents.”
Kissinger is being requested to testify 
next month, but complications could pre­
vent his appearance. He has avoided sub­
poenas in the past by threatening to re­
veal top secret information. Rather than 
risk a national security leak, the commit­
tee has previously bypassed him as a wit­
ness.
In the final analysis , Mitchell’s return 
to Washington was similar to Nixon’s. Al­
though the cameras whined while crowds 
pressed for a mere glimpse of the man, the 
ending was anticlimactic. It suffices to say 
that Mitchell’s visit was very brief.
MODERN LANGUAGESProf. Rennert escorts troops to Germany
by Linda Deak
Following the Modern Language Depart­
ment’s push for a cultural summer vaca­
tion, Professor Hal Rennert has convinced 
ten students to abandon the sunny New 
Jersey beaches and spend three weeks in 
Germany.
The German trip was coordinated by 
Rennert in cooperation with the German 
Academic Exchange Service (DAAD). It 
was basically initiated to allow students to 
study the university environment in the 
southwest German state of Baden-WUrtten- 
berg. The CMU group will meet with pro­
fessors and students at universities in such 
cities as Heidelberg, Stuttgart and Tübing­
en.
Because college credit is given for the 
trip, the students are required to keep a 
journal of their visit and turn in a term pa­
per dealing with an aspect of contemporary 
German culture.
Rennert claims, “This is an information 
trip, but we’re going to visit “tourist” areas 
if possible.” The excursion directly enfor­
ces his feeling that “every student taking a 
foreign language, be he a French major or 
mechanical engineer, should have on-site
exposure to the native language and cul­
ture.”The DAAD has partially funded the ex­
cursion, allotting $300 for each partici­
pant. The cost for the trip was $600, which 
included flight and living expenses. 
DAAD’s grant originally allotted funding 
for 19 students, but only ten took advan­
tage of the reduced-price trip.
The Germany-bound students include: 
Skip Brazelton, Cynthia Elm, Paul Ernst, 
Larry Karg, Deidre Mullan, Kate Nellis, 
Syd Price, Carla Rauschenplat, Nancy 
Redard and Karen Yaksich.
Although Rennert has not yet packed 
his bags for the May trip, he is already 
planning for the summer Germany trip of 
’79. As college credit may be obtained, 
(due to an innovative extension of the in­
tensive language program), he hopes that 
such trips will become a regular course of­
fering in the Modem Language Depart­
ment or perhaps even grow into a study 
abroad program.
The prerequisites for such a trip are 
minimal, only an elementary speaking or 
/eading knowledge of German is required 
Rennert hints to CMU undergrads, “I 
not too late to enroll in 82-121, Flemen 
tary German.”
» ¦* > i » * I*JgfË *. * . V » 4 m k % - \ % % \ 4 ï t

---------------------------------------------------

Call home*
It’s great to be away from home. Then again, sometimes you just want to go 
back.. .if only for a few minutes.
Call home tonight... Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself. * 
station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M.. you'll be able to talk for ten minutes 
for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial direct rates do not applvto jx’rson to | . nn. !,«.»•: • DiaDi » «•••'> * »1 I1*» nmnh. i
Dial direct rates apply on calls pl<uoc! urth an < >j>. i.>t<n Diaall t diaiinq t.n i!im> .in - u< .t
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
NATIONAL HONORARY MUSIC 
FRATERNITY 
PHI MU ALPHA SINFONIA 
presents
ANNUAL BENEFIT JAZZ 
FESTIVAL
Featuring four jazz ensembles 
with special guest
Emil Palame,
Jazz Pianist
7:30 p.m. Thursday April 20 
Skibo Ballroom 
Adults $2.00 Students $1.50
All proceeds to benefit Hunt Library 
Record & Music Fund 
Tickets Available at Skibo Information 
Desk and at the door.
Coming
TARN
They’re making a new kind 
of music and it’s for now, 
the 70 s. Read about the 
artists and the music they 
make in the next issue of 
Insider-the free supplement
to your college newspaper from Ford.
Ford hopes you enjoy reading 
the Insider, and also hopes 
you’ll consider Ford first
Look for “Insider” —
Ford’s continuing series of 
college newspaper supplements.
when shopping for a new 
car. We have a great 
selection of cars and 
trucks, designed for today 
and the years beyond. So 
enjoy reading about the 
"Music of the 70 s:’ And look into a new 
Ford. You II find 
both of them chock 
full of better ideas.
FORD
FORD DIVISION^ANNIVERSARY

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 14 - TARTAN - April 18, 1978
The April 25 FOLIO is a "Free for All" issue; 
we can use stories, poems, and artwork (or what­
ever) about . . . Whatever! Just have your typed 
copy at the TARTAN office by noon Wednesday 
the 19th. And our last theme, on May 2, is 
"Looking Back on CMU," and we'd like to be 
able to publish all sorts of views of Carnegie- 
Mellon (how you saw it, or how you'd like to see 
it) before we leave for the summer.. .or for Grad­
uation. The deadline for that issue is Monday, 
April 24.
TARTAN FOLIO
APRIL 18/VOLUME ll/ISSUE 11:
BLACK ROSE
EDITOR: K„A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOH: FRED LAPOINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTIST: BRENDA REED 
COVER DESIGN: BRENDA REED^ cruc.\.T: «
H......... ....... ..... . / / y ) Aprilcops -fouod her", SKc.
r-: •.•re1;-;*-;'/,-]

---------------------------------------------------

April 18, 1978 - TARTAN - page 15

---------------------------------------------------

SUMMER PROGRAM
WHAT? A Special Summer course which 
may, if you desire, substitute for 
the first 2 years of Military 
Science.
WHEN? 15 May-27 May 1978
WHERE? CMU, Margaret Morrison
WHY? At the successful completion
you will have: The option to {
enroll in the ROTC Advanced 
Course program and receive a 
100 dollar monthly allowan­
ce during your next two school 
years. Additionally, if you 
choose this option, we can now 
guarantee duty with a Reserve 
or National Guard unit on a ¦
part-time basis (stay at home) 
rather than full-time active duty 
service. !
FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: !
MSG Adderly 
578-2204 j
Margaret Morrison, 2nd Basement j
L_________________________________________J
Rents Ttucks for Moving. 
Local & One-Way. 
Low Rates.
4621 Forbes Ave.
EXXON STATION
Between CMU and PITT
682-1444 irj
621-3317 RYDER
Date: April 23, 9:00 AM 
Place: The Point (or North Park Lake If The Rivers Are Rough) 
*For More Information, See Article in Sports Section
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF
Photography Staff: V.R.V. Ramanan(Editor), Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Marsha Fairbrother, George Lecomte, 
Chris Morrow and Mark Segal.
The Photography Editor would like to thank Bob Chansler of the Tech Flying Club for providing the airlift; Sweep­
stakes chairman Gerd Beckmann for the cooperation accorded for the coverage of the races; Marsha. Fairbrother 
and Tim Wenk for help in the layout of these pages.

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival ’78

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

"AN EVENING WITH PAUL DRAPER
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19
8:00 P.M.
SKI BO BALLROOM
CO-SPONSORED CAMPUS PROGRAM 
PLANNING & RESIDENCE LIFE

---------------------------------------------------

V
Students display talents
Disco Drafters take it ail off at the Gong Show 
by David Sheward
The second annual SDC Gong Show, 
one of the highlights of Carnival Weekend, 
was held in the SDC tent on Saturday at 
1:30. The panel of distinguished judges in­
cluded Professor Pottinger from the Phil- 
o?^*hy Departmanet, Mrs. O’Nan, the 
lead of AMS and Professor Breland of the 
Art Department.
The first act was Martin Rose’s bus 
schedules. Rose took the stage, dressed in 
fGroucho fake glasses, nose and mustache 
and aviator’s helmet with goggles, holding a stuffed animal similarly attired. He then 
proceeded to recite a series of bus sched­
ules: he was quickly gonged. Rose was fol- 
lo^fed by Dan Kline who performed The 
Great Escape. Placed in a cardboard box, 
he escaped by cutting holes in it while
last Saturday.
holding up an applause sign. The judges, 
for some reason, gave Kline 24 points. The 
next act was called The MAA Singers, Ray 
and Ray, who sang White Christmas in ub- 
bi-dubbi, the variation on Pig Latin made 
famous by the children’s show Zoom.
The show livened up considerably with Ken Britz’s Disco Drafters. Students from 
the Architecture Department performed 
various drafting feats to disco music. Their 
excellent choreography received a standing 
ovation from the crowd and perfect score 
of 30 from the judges.
Wendy Rosenberg followed, billed as 
“The Girl With Something Extra,” she 
played Mary Had a Little Lamb on two 
trumpets at once, for which she was 
awarded a score of 28. Stan Eidelstein on 
the guitar was not permitted to finish his
rendition of Flagstaff Hill, as Prof. Pottin­
ger gonged him. Bent on revenge Eidelstein 
forced Pottinger to sing and quickly 
gonged him. After that bit of poetic jus­
tice, The Last Minute Trumped Up CMU 
Blues Band performed The Nerd Blues, a 
clever song about the perils/ of nerding, re­
ceiving a score of 24.
The last act was John Jubac who gave a 
fantastically beautiful performance on the 
acoustic guitar. He was awarded a perfect 
score of 30.
The award for best act went to Ken 
Britz’s Disco Drafters. They were given a 
check for $16.95 and a trophy of someone 
shooting a toilet bowl. The worst act was 
judged to be Martin Rose’s Bus Schedules. 
Rose received a trophy of a horse’s ass and 
“a year’s supply of refried Tartanburgers.”
AB Concert
Photos by Ramanan
See review next week
One student views carnival
by Russ Militello
I admit it, I am not thrilled by carnivals. 
l*^y are not my style: too noisy, too dir­
ty, too crowded. However, I do not wish to 
deprive others the pleasures and thrills of 
the carnival atmosphere, for they seem to 
provide many people with some entertain­
ment. After all, there are rides, booths and 
games, cotton candy and candy apples; 
fun for some, but not for me.
First off, 1 hate crowds. Crowds are ob- 
nl .ious and rude. They step on feet and 
elbow kidneys, and in general, annoy and 
agitate. Who needs the aggravation? I’d 
j rather be in Manhattan where I can escape 
to Saks or Bloomingdales and get agitated 
and annoyed in style.
At the carnival there is no real escape, 
except to Skibo. But, it’s even hard to 
escape there because the same high school 
that pervade the midway are also ran­
domly roaming around the Tartan Grill 
and being generally obnoxious. And this is 
at noon! Doesn’t anyone go to school 
anymore? I felt like Gulliver among the 
Lilliputians.
I don't like the rides either. They makeI
 me throw up. I like to have fun, 1 just 
don't like to puke. Another peculiarity. 
Tl^re should be a t. uet, unturbulent ride
, for those of us feeble in stomach and 
ichicken in heart. Whatever happened to the 
I traditional Ferris Wheel? If the new high 
flying pyrotechnic rides are the wave of the 
s future, I shudder to think where it will all 
; end.
Enough about what I don 7 like about 
^carnivals. What I am consistently impressed 
is the creativity displayed by some 
^organizations in their booths. But these 
tseem to he fewer each year, as many are
content to show lack of creativity and 
effort.
CIA, a newcomer to the carnival scene, 
invested a substantial amount of money in 
their booth only to have it fall victim to 
theVind. However, their spirit wasn’t lost 
and I’m sure they will be back strong next 
year. A similar fate happened to the DG’s, 
but they were fortunate to be able to re­
construct it. The point is that these were 
not half-hearted efforts or fly-by-night 
projects, and at least looked good.
Walking through the midway, it is 
evident that the imaginative, attractive 
booths are where the business is. (Except 
for the swim team booth, where the trade 
is primarily in sadism.) Bat, b >ths like 
ZBT, SAE, DTD, and KKG addea color to 
the midway, and showed that these organi­
zations cared about the appearance they 
made, not only the possible profit.
Too many were done in a half-assed 
manner, not even complete by the opening 
of the midway on Thursday. This shouldn't 
have happened, and only proved that these 
groups were not organized and didn’t plan. 
Finding nails and paint cans scattered 
around takes too much of the enjoyment
out of the carnival atmosphere.
Spring Carnival used to be an event that 
everyone got enthusiastic about, not 
merely an escape from classes, but it seems 
to have lost its originally planned effect on 
the school. Maybe carnivals are passé, or 
we have grown up, or simply feel that it 
isn’t worth the effort. This event is good 
for the campus and the students, but unless 
a tnore unified effort is put behind it, 
making the goals clearer, we may be wit- 
nessing the end of a CMU tradition.
jazz deals with noise
by Syd Price
The SDC tent. Well, it’s there, and 
they’ve got to put something in it, don’t 
they? It’s the proverbial dirty job that 
somebody’s got to do.
The CMU Jazz Ensemble did it. They 
played in the SDC tent, under the direction 
of Leonard Geissel.
I’d like to say a few words about the 
relative merits (or lack thereof) of a tent as 
a concert setting. I will ignore the yellow/ 
green/red-striped decor. I will say nothing 
of my frostbitten fingers. (Did someone 
mention cold?) And as it would be down­
right obscene to discuss tent acoustics, I 
won’t.
What I will mention is the fact that 
there was a carnival going on outside. Now 
either the band had a section of musicians 
who played whining motors and staticky 
loudspeakers cleverly hidden behind the
trumpeteers, or the noise from the midway 
was godawful obnoxious. So much so, in 
fact, that it completely obscured things 
like flutes, keyboards, atom bomb explo­
sions.
The point of it all being this: It was im 
possible to pick up on subtle details of the 
performance. I had to let it hit me as one 
big sound-en masse, En masse it sounded 
pretty good. The attending musicians 
numbered 16 brass, and a rhythm section 
of drums, bass, guitar (amplified into dis­
tortion) and keyboards (inaudible).
The solos which made it through the 
background noise-usually trumpet, an in 
strument not noted for its subtlety of at- 
?ack-were impressive. Overall the per- 
rormance was tight and well-balanced; the 
acoustic deficiencies of the setting were 
more than adequately compensated for
If you haven’t seen the Jazz Ensemble 
check it out sometime.

---------------------------------------------------

page 22 - TARTAN - April 18, 1978
y Get a fun job this summer at
A Book Review 
Book: The Angel Book 
Author: Ann Cameron 
Publisher: Ballantine
by Hemerle Rhodes
You don’t have to wait till you get to 
heaven to see angels; you can see them right 
here on earth even while you’re still being 
a little devil. The spiritual beings have des­
cended into our midst through Ann Cam­
eron’s The Angel Book in order to thrill 
and mystify us.
The book is a conglomeration of illus­
trations, poetry, prose, songs and quota­
tions; all compiled to provide us mere mor­
tals with an idea of just what those angelic 
beings are actually like. Of course there is 
no answer, but that doesn’t take anything 
away from the enchantment of the book.
A wide variety of angels are introduced 
to us. We see cupids of Victorian Valen­
tines, Renaissance cherubs, even Chinese 
angels. The art work, nearly all in full color, 
is interspersed with appropriate quotations 
from such noteables as Wordsworth, Shake­
speare, Byron, Milton, Emily Dickinson, 
and even the Bible. A few Christmas carols 
and popular songs, complete with music, 
are appendaged at the end.
DESIGNER/ARCHITECT 
Student Wanted
to help design exciting 
downtown restaurant 
featuring expensive, 
quality, nutritional food 
served quickly.
CALL 521-9555
Functionally, there are a wide assort­
ment of cherubs, suitable to cut out (with­
out destroying anything on the back) to 
use in decopage, on Christmas cards, Val­
entines, or just on love letters.
As for answering just what an angel is... 
well, who can really say? Ms. Cameron’s 
book does provide us withu some relatively 
little known facts of ancient origin, and we 
can have the fun of deciding for ourselves.
Everyone is familiar with Cupid, but do 
you know his Greek origin, or what the 
meaning of the word angelos, from which 
angel comes from, is? Did you know some 
of the earliest angels could not fly (maybe 
due to the wide trousers tucked into high 
boots that they wore)? In fact, the first 
winged versions of the Middle East weren’t 
too sweet looking, being composed of four 
legs, cat-like bodies and bird-like, wings. 
But no matter what they looked like, the 
angels have a history of being instrumental 
;.n bringing about important changes and 
lecisions.
If you’re curious about statistics, writers 
have approximated that there are “ten 
thousand times ten thousand” angels. But 
fear not, these beings are said to be like 
thoughts; they “do not take up material 
space.” How do we know they exist then? 
—through the elaborate imagination of 
many artistic minds.
Angels, though technically sexless, took 
upon feminine connotations in the 19th 
Century. But it wasn’t always so, most 
early ones were depicted as being mascu­
line. A group, designated the Watchers, 
have a particularly interesting history.
If the pictures aren’t enough to capture 
your fancy, or the verse doesn’t inspire you, 
or the historic background doesn’t enlight­
en you, one tidbit that could be useful to 
many students is a formula calling the aid 
of the cherubs to instill love for you in 
the one you adore. Now that has definite 
possiblities.
Architects freely express feeling towards faculty.
An Architecture Review 
(of sorts)
Place: Faculty Lounge 
Participants: CMU Students
by Joan Livitski
On Friday, April 7, while some students 
were seeing Scotch and Soda’s production 
of Woodwind, or cramming in to watch 
Annie Hall, or most likely, digging their 
noses into work, the architects (amazing as 
it may seem) were not to be found in their 
studios cranking out models, drafts or de­
signs. A significantly large number of arch­
itects, friends and faculty convened to en­
joy the efforts of a group of architecture 
students satirizing their department.
The revue took place in the Faculty 
Lounge, a most fitting place. Having been 
the home for many student juries, it was 
now seeing a critical view of the faculty 
through the students’ eyes.
A sizeable crowd was drawn, but on 
initial impact, it wasn’t clear if it was the 
revue or the beer and wine that was drawing 
the people. In fact, a rousing round of ap­
plause was given with much enthusiasm 
and gratitude for “the booze and its anony­
mous donor.” But even more amazingly, 
from then on the approval grew and grew.
It was one of the first times that I had seen 
anything create more excitement on this 
campus than alcohol.
The basic idea for the show rested on 
the Architecture Department’s search for a 
head. Trained well by CMU to look for all 
possible solutions, the architects did their 
best to present all the vying contenders 
via students’ characterizations.
“THE COASTER CAPITAL OF THE WORLD
Interviewing at the Park Monday through Friday from 4 to 6 PM. Saturdays from 9 AM to 1 PM.
No applications by mail or phone.
Supposedly in the works for alongtL..e, 
the program was formally organized just 
before Spring break. Though having con­
ceptualized the acts in theory some time 
ago, the cast had but one complete run 
through the entire show before putting it 
to their audience.
Prior to the performance, one faculty 
member summerized his feelings abou. 
students’ intentions by stating that: “I 
think it’s appropriate and courageous that 
the architecture students have finally 
brought their follies into the public... or 
was it their jollies?”
Well, I for one wouldn’t want to guess 
at what the performers got out of it, but 
the audience got a hearty laugh and a g^d 
time. The show was so versatile that it 
offered something for everyone. Included 
was everything from songs, a poem, com­
mercials, and even a disco version of draft­
ing. The program started with a comical, 
yet telling film on the trials and tribulations 
of an architect at CMU. It’s theme showed 
what every architecture student (if not
those in all departments) already km s 
there’s no getting away from the work... 
no matter what. Even jumping off the roo 
of Science Hall doesn’t provide a solution 
for after a slow motion fall past floor afteij 
floor, the student finds himself caught ir 
the arms of two maintenance men and se 
safely on the ground. Maybe that’s why i 
takes so long to get repairs done on ou 
house... the maintenance crews are >f] 
playing Batman and Robin.
Many skits were inner department 
jokes, and yet there was some sense of uni­
versality. You might never have met the 
professor they were good-naturedly pokin 
fun at, but it was evident with each th 
the exaggerations typified mannerisms theyj 
wanted to emphasize.
When the rather elaborate evaluation t 
discover the best and most likely hea
(which was probably more than what the 
department carried on) finally came to an 
end, the only feasible choice was made 
They concluded that Dorothy McHugh, the 
department’s secretary, was the only logical 
and qualified choice. All in attendance 
gave their unanimous approval.
Upon leaving, I approached the same 
faculty member to find out if his views had 
changed any (especially after he had been 
put through a rather heated roasting). To 
the contrary, he was “very impressed. 
They’re all in the wrong field.” Maybe the 
drama students had better keep their guard 
up for some of the architects might have 
their designs on Kresge Theatre for t Ji 
next show.
Angels descend on usArchitects revue faculty
X .

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
r*
‘THEATRE
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre will 
present The Apple Tree. This lighthearted 
comedy, based on stories by Mark Twain 
and Jules Fieffer, was written by Back and 
Hanich of Fiddler on the Roof fame. The 
show will run from March 24 to April 23. 
For additional information call 621-4445.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present The Tricycle, by Fernando Arrabal, 
Friday through Sunday, March 17 to April
23, at 8:30 PM. The Lab Theatre is located 
at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of Fifth 
and Craft), Oakland. Seating is limited, and 
advance reservations should be made by 
calling 621-2876.
j The Performing Arts Department of 
'' Community College of Allegheny County 
South Campus is presenting the area pre­
miere of Preston Jones’ A Texas Trilogy 
on April 14, 16, 21, 22, 23, 28, 29 and 30 
with an 8:30 curtain. Reservations can be 
made by calling 469-1100, Ext. 390.
^ Lovelace Theatre will present Carnival 
of Ihe Seventh Moon through May 14 in • •^ the Museum of Art Theatre. Show times 
r are Saturdays at 1:30 PM and Sundays at 
1:30 and 3:30 PM. For further information 
call 361-4835.
Save the Tiger will be shown April 18 
at 7:30 in the Eddy Theatre or Chapel. 
There is a $1 admission charge.
Tom Jones will be presented April 21 
at 1 PM in the Museum of Art Theatre. Cost 
is $1.
The American Friend will be shown in 
the Museum of Art Theatre on April 19 
at 8 PM. Admission is $1.
Barry Lyndon will be presented April 
25 at 7:30 in the Eddy Theatre or chapel. 
A charge of $1 is required.
An exhibition of painting and industrial 
designs by Richard I. Felver is set for 
April 11 through 24 to mark the official 
opening of CMU’s new design department 
gallery located on the third floor of Baker 
Hall. Mr. Felver is a former professor of 
design at CMU. Gallery hours are 8:30 AM 
to 4:30 PM weekdays and noon to 4 PM 
on weekends.
MUSIC
ART
CINEMA
AB will show Small Change on April 
20 at 6, 8, and 10 PM in DH 2210. There’s 
(fya 75 cent admission charge with ID and $1 
without.
Wizards will be presented by AB on 
April 21 at 6, 8, 10 and Midnight in DH 
2210. Cost to see the film is $1 with ID and 
$1.25 without.
SDC will sponsor Brewster McCloud 
on April 22. The film will be shown in DH 
”"2210 and is free to the campus.
Ursula Neubauer will have a printmak- 
ing display in the Hewlette Gallery from 
April 23 to April 28. Hours for the Gallery 
are 11 to 4 PM, Monday through Friday.
John Koepnick will have a sculpture ex­
hibition in the Skibo Faculty Lounge from 
April 16 to 21. Hours are from 11 to 4 PM, 
Monday through Friday.
A show of weavings by Nancy Hagen- 
Liddle will be on display in Skibo Faculty 
Lounge from April 23 to April 28. Times 
for viewing are 11 to 4 PM, Monday through 
Friday.
An exhibition of photography by Clyde 
Hare, titled Pittsburgh Rapport, will be 
held in the Courthouse Gallery/Forum 
March 23 through April 21. Mr. Hare 
teaches photography in CMU's Department 
of Architecture. The display may be 
viewed free of charge 8:30 to 4:30, Mon­
days through Fridays.
The Nexus Gallery at 119 Shady Avenue 
will display a collection of poems on 
Images of Love by Franklin Duck and 
paintings by Donna Edwards. The poetry 
is calligraphied by Kathy Gray Farthing. 
All three are graduates of CMU. Their 
show will run through May 2nd with 
gallery hours being: Sunday-Tuesday 11 AM 
to 3 PM and Wednesday-Saturday 6 PM to 
10 PM.
The Kiltie Band will hold their pops con­
cert on Skibo patio April 26 at 12:30 PM. 
In case of rain, the event will be held in the 
Ballroom. The concert is free and open to 
the public.
The Fourth Musical Desert will be in 
More wood Lobby at 6:30 PM on April
24.
CMU’s annual Jazz Festival will be held 
on April 20 at 7:30 PM in the Skibo 
Ballroom. The program is sponsored by 
the CMU chapter of the Phu Mu Alpha 
Sinfonia music honorary and all proceeds 
will go to the library record and music 
fund. Admission is $2.00 for adults and 
$1.50 for students. Tickets may be 
obtained at Skibo information desk or at 
the concert.
Saturday, April 22 at the Lion Walk 
Arts Center, Lousiana Red will perform a 
benefit concert. The evening of Blues will 
begin at 9 PM. Admission is $2.
The Pittsburgh Opera will present The 
Barber of Seville at Heinz Hall on April 20 
and 22. Performances start at 8 PM. For 
ticket information call 281-0912.
The Civic Arena will present several con­
certs . throughout the month of April. 
Greatful Dead will be in concert on the 
18th followed by the Average White Band 
on the 22nd with David Bowie winding up 
the month of musical entertainment on the 
26th. For further ticket information call 
471-1312.
The CMU Philharmonic concert, con­
ducted by director of orchestral activities 
Istvan Jaray, will be held April 23 at 8 PM 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. The concert is 
free and open to the public.
Music by Antonio Vivaldi will highlight 
this year’s final concert of CMU’s Baroque 
Ensemble on Wednesday, April 19 at 8 PM 
in Alumni Concert Hall. The event is 
free and open to the public.
WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show 
week-days from 6:30-9:30. The format 
of this program includes music, news, 
weather, class cancellations, and traffic 
reports. WRCT is located at 88.3 on your 
FM dial.
MISC.
AB Coffeehouse committee presents an 
unusual trio, Bermuda Triangle, on Satur­
day, April 22 at 9:30 PM in the Wherrett 
Room. Also appearing is CMU student 
Robin Brower. Admission is free and open 
to the campus community.
The Alternative coffee house will pre­
sent an improvisational theatre experience 
by That Improv Group with Ted Scheuch, 
Michael Pope and Martha Meissman on 
April 21 from 8 PM to Midnight.
The American Dance Ensemble will 
present David Lechin’s Graduation Ball 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on April 21, 
22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 at 8 PM. 
Tickets are $2, $3, $4, and $5. For more 
information call 391-4100 ext. 412.
Comedian Kelly Monteith will do two 
shows on April 24 at the Pittsburgh Play­
house Theatre. His appearance is sponsor­
ed by the United Student Government of 
Point Park College. Show times are 8 and 
10 PM. Tickets are $3 and may be pur­
chased at National Record Marts.Ingmar Bergman lays egg
A Film Review
Film: The Serpents Egg
Director: Ingmar Bergman
by Russ Militello
Almost traditionally, Ingmar Bergman 
has been known for his bizarre, profound 
films. These Film classics such as Persona 
and Wild Strawberries have given Bergman reputation as a master filmmaker. How­
ever, in his newest release. The Serpents 
Egg, he fails to live up to his potential.
Taking place in Germany in the 1930's, 
the film follows the ordeals of an out of 
work Jewish circus performer named
Abel Rosenberg 
Carradine). Now a
(played by David 
drifter he seeks refuge 
with his dead brother’s wife, a cabaret girl 
named Manuela(Liv Ullman). From then on 
they form a symbiotic relationship, becom­
ing both lovers and friends, functioning 
as one person.
This is the basic story behind the movie. 
If it appears that it leads nowhere, it’s 
because it does. Throughout the duration 
the film, one frequently asks oneself such 
questions as “Why?” and “What's going 
on?" Nothing is very clear. However, I am 
not really certain that Bergman did not
intend this to happen. After all, is life 
always clear? But, whereas this can make 
for an interesting life, it doesn’t make for a 
very captivating motion picture.Contributing to this are the performan­
ces, which appear to be for the most part 
non-directional and unmotivated. Uv 
Ullman, perhaps the most talented Euro­
pean actress around today, gives a sur­
prisingly stifled perfonnance. Bergman’s 
favorite actress appears as uncomfortable 
with her role as the audience is in watching 
it. David Carradine give one of the most 
unemotional performances ever to hit the 
screen, looking and acting for the most 
part like a wooden Indian, another 
puzzle posed by the film. There is one 
good perfonnance in the film. Gert Frobe,
plays a sweet and sour police chief and 
manages to keep his scenes, unfortunately 
too few, alive and interesting.
Another bright spot in the movie is the 
cinematography. This is the only area of 
the film that it is clear that
Bergman is the director. The movie dis­
plays his imaginative use of photography 
and outstanding combination of lighting 
and scene to set the mood.
This film is not a bad movie, nor is it a 
good movie either. It is a film by Ingmar 
Bergman, but he missed his mark. Possibly, 
this was merely a “bad day” for him and 
that his next film will be more along the 
lines of what he is capable of. Hopefully 
we aren’t witnessing the waning of a 
genius.
DEMONSTRATORS
We need several demonstrators for weekend 
work: (Thursday, Friday, Saturday) 4-6 hours daily. 
High hourly pay plus fringe benefits. This is a long 
range temporary assignment. Car needed. Contact 
Wendie at: MANPOWER TEMPORARY SERVICES, 
301 Fifth Ave. Bldg., Pgh., Pa. 15222. Monroeville - 
301 Jonnet Bldg. South Hills - 1725 Washington 
Rd., St. Claire Bldg.
Call 391-7032 for information.

---------------------------------------------------

page24—TÀRTAN—April 18.1978
An Album Review 
Album: Burchfield Nines 
Artist: Michael FranksFrankly, Franks is unclear
by David C. Lucas
Here it is!The TARTAN feature you*ve all 
been waiting for: The Second Annual Rip- 
Michael-Franks-To-Shred Article. What, 
you missed the First Annual article? That’s 
what you get for not reading your campus 
newspaper. In a nutshell, it implied that 
the only things wrong with Franks’ second 
album, Sleeping Gypsy, were the words 
and the singing. No, I do not regret having 
suggested that M.F. hire Kenny Rankin 
to do his singing for him. Hell, he can hire 
me. My range covers a full octave.
Franks’ new album is called Burchfield 
Nines. The title is a bit of aesthetic name- 
dropping on the singer’s part. It refers to 
a watercolor painting by Charles Burch­
field, the American painter. The painting, 
Circus Poster, c. 1917, features a handful 
of red numeral nines, and belongs to the 
collection of Franks’ producer, Tommy 
Lipuma. For the line,“But all I see is those 
Burchfield Nines,” the singer writes these 
rhymes: “The Dali drools, the Hartley 
shines,” “We’re all such funny Valentines,” 
and “And on the box Bird tingles spines.” 
Real cute, Michael, but how many people 
can pick out the artists Salvador Dali 
and Marsden Hartley, the song title My 
Funny Valentine and the musician Charlie 
Byrd out of those lovely lyrics. There is 
such a thing as making yourself accessable 
to your audience.
Franks is known for his unusual analo­
gies. In Burchfield Nines his women 
became irate tots, robins and nightingales,
flora and flora. Sex is referred to as a low 
pH soap, “the deer dance” and parrots 
eyeing fruit. Amour is a web being weaved, 
a heart singing, “A True Cliche,” “Illu­
sion,” “the perfect shampoo,” “Summer­
time,” colliding souls and a bridge of 
sighs being built. Most of the other analo­
gies go misunderstood, being in-jokes 
between Michael Franks and himself.
Two of the tunes manage 
to transcend this lync elusiveness. In 
Search of the Perfect Shampoo rates with 
Popsicle Toes and Eggplant, sparkling with 
lines like, “Dear Daddy, how come you 
had me,/Were Mama’s pajamas see- 
through?” The last tune on Nines is a 
sensuous amalgam of love lines and fea­
tured tasties like these: “We make love/ 
Between the harpsichords and lutesj 
Out greenlimbs intertwine.” and “Lovers 
from the past with poison smiles/All pray 
out love will never last;/But we are Trees 
not Vines, you know.”
Now let’s talk about Michael Franks’ 
voice. I find it hard to believe that with 
all the modern recording studio technology 
there is, Tommy Lipuma is unable to come 
up with the combination of echo chamber 
tape speed and synthesizer tricks that 
would add some depth to Franks’ flat 
voice. Maybe a slinky girl group doing background. The Vienna Boys’ Choir? All 
through Side One, I was thinking that 
double-tracking the voice would solve 
the problem. But when the technique 
cropped up on Side Two’s Dear Little 
Nightingale, I realized that two sets of 
weak pipes are definitely not better than 
one.
As music, Burchfield Nines is closer 
to The Art of Tea than to Sleeping Gypsy
The Puffin fare for youths.
One of the first things young Puffins learn to do is fly Icelandic. Beginning April 1, 1978, Icelandic will fly any youth (Puffin or person) from 12 thru 23 years old roundtnp from New York to Luxembourg for just $400. $430 from Chicago. Re­turn tickets are good for a full year. Fares are subject to change.Book anytime.
But there’s more to Icelandic than just low fares.You II get a great dinner and excellent service on your trip. And Icelandic will set you down right in the mid­dle of the Euro­pean Continent, where you 11 be just hours away by train from Europe’s ' most famous landmarks.So take a travel tip from Iceland’s favorite bird.Learn to fly Icelandic. See your travel agent. Or write Dept. #C352, Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, N Y. 11552. Call 800-555-1212 for toll free number in your area.
$275
Koundtrip 14-45 day APEX fare from N.Y.*
Koundtrip Youth Fare. C>ood thru age 23.$400
>uth Fare, (.ood thiIcelandic to Europe
*$25*f> from Chicago. IVkets must be reserved 4f» days prior to departure and 
paid for within 8 days of reservation. Add $lf> oat h way for travel on weekends.
****** ************ -
in its modeling of melodies and riffs. This 
is a distinctive digression. The saving grace 
of Franks’ second album was its delicious 
samba music. The tunes on Nines are 
wimpy and milquetoast-like. Pianist Leon 
Pendarvis is allowed to pussyfoot his way 
through the eight tunes. Two unsung 
heroes of studio musicianship, guitarist 
John Tropea and percussionist Ralph 
MacDonald, lend their talents, but the 
combo lacks the solidity and spice that 
the members of the Crusaders gave to 
Franks’ first two albums. Eumir Deodato 
has the job of conducting and arranging 
the orchestrated music, regretfully featured 
on only 2 tunes. Even Deodato is a sore 
replacement for Claus Ogerman, whose 
orchestral signature was applied to Sleeping 
Gypsy as well as the albums by the ‘new’ 
George Benson.
On several occasions, the calm is broken 
by the brass notes of Ernie Watts and Oscar
Brashear on tenor sax and trumpet, respec-ji>tively. The two musicians are featured on 
the songs which are musically satisfying: 
When the Cookie Jar is Empty, Burchfield 
Nines and Meet Me in the Deerpark.
Vivaldi’s Song is an exception to the 
lukewarm tone of the album. Though at a 
relaxing tempo, the subtle notes of its 
friendly acoustic guitars, flute, violins and 
cello make it a near-pleasure to listen to. 
It’s just waiting for a singer with a good1- 
voice to make a cover version of it.
Why is it so easy to complain about 
Michael Franks? Because he is wasting 
thousands of dollars worth of polyvinyl 
chloride, truckloads of really neet rhymes, 
hours of pleasant jazz music, by writing 
vague lyrics, and singing badly. Well, 
I’ll give him just one more chance, because 
after I graduate next year, I won’t be oiK1' 
ithe TARTAN staff to try to straighten him 
out by writing viscious reviews.
Bennett deserves a look
An Art Review 
Artist: Ron Bennett 
Producer: Sara Scaife
by Marjorie Kernan
Let’s get down to brass tacks. We’ve been 
subjected to a lot of garbage in that sacred 
home of culture-Sara Scaife. Ron Bennett’s 
show defies the stuffiness of that institution, 
and challenged the overblown, pseudo-intell­
ectual, anti-contemporary art that is usually 
shown there.
Bennett deals with essential issues of 
form and linear function. There were about 
twenty pieces in the show, on the wall and 
standing, and they were all well worth see­
ing. Rather than dealing solely with solid/- 
void relationships, Bennett has a somewhat 
more painterly approach. This is especially 
evident in his wall pieces, which are con-
GIRLS................ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUM-.
MER COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are 
now being considered for the 1978 camp 
season. Must be able io teach one of the 
following: Arts & Crafts, Arts & Crafts Direc­
tor, Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Ac­
companist and singing, Archery, Tennis, Tram- 
poline, Gymnastics, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Scouting and Nature Study, 
A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, 
Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor. 
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15228. Call 563-2772
cerned with configurations created by space, 
as in his use of the wall as an integral part of 
the sculpture. This is an important mode*. - 
concern, essential to anti-illusiomsm and the 
recognition of art as an object.
Bennett has an obvious interest with land­
scape. In one of the wall-pieces, Land Por­
trait, a piece of cast alluminum undulates 
like a landscape. This in itself is not inter­
esting. It is the fact that we are seeing it 
straight on, and that it is contained in » 
formal system of rectangles, that makes u 
interesting. Bennett’s strength lies in his use 
of recognizable forms, setting them up in 
formal schema, therefore extending beyond 
the bananlity of a simple imitative refer­
ence.
One of his most successful wall-pieces is 
Black Lands, It is made of sheet alluminum 
with black polyester resin on top. An intrip- 
ing work, the configuration of four equally 
spaced squares creates a cross on the white 
wall. The highly reflective surface of the re­
sin makes one aware of one’s own relation­
ship with the work, yet at the same time its 
inky depths deny its frontality.
Another work using reflection to an ad­
vantage is a standing piece, Cloud Mirror 
Macquetle, where the supports of the han^ 
ing shapes are reflected in the brass bas^.' 
Thus, we have an actual and its illusory 
double.
Bennett sets up situations in which the 
viewer is forced to look and consider. The 
directness and lack of overcomplexity of the 
•work is a proper base for the important con­
ceptual concerns that Bennett haschoscn to 
deal \vith. One is rewarded for the time at it. U

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Beta scores coup
Soccer tourney is a success
continued from page I
many other organizations on the first 
grueling day of racing.
Friday’s first heat saw Kappa Sigma-B 
(2.48.7) top Zeta Beta Tau-A(2.57.1). 
The second race was run solo by Delta 
I^ilon-B (3.16.5) as the ZBT-B bike lost 
control at the top of hill two and crashed. 
The driver was not hurt. Beta-C (2.38.6) 
captured heat three over Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon-B (2.47.3) and Student Dorm 
Council-C (2.46.7).
CIA uses Black Magic
CIA-A’s Black Magic ran its own course 
in heat four when both KS-A and DU-C 
sj^tched. Even with the handicap of 
having no competition to force more 
effort, CIA rolled and ran to a 2.20.75’, 
the best time of the day. This time made 
CIA the favorite going into the finals.
Beta-B’s buggy “825” advanced to the 
finals with a good time of 2.26.0. Fringe-B 
did not compete in the race as they had to 
epter their B trike “Leroy” in their A spot. 
Pika-C rolled to a 2.33V7,‘which was not 
*od enough to pull them in the finals, 
but, together with Pika’s other times, 
allowed Pika to put three buggies in the 
top ten.
Alpha Tau Omega-B captured the sixth 
race with a time of 2.38\9 over PKT-A
(2.45.2) and SAE-C (3.20.0); The seventh 
heat was run by SDC-B (2.54.9) and 
Fringe-A(3.11.7) as SN-B scratched the 
^Sy before the race.
Pika-B narrowly missed qualifying for 
the finals in heat eight as their time of 
2.30.2 left them in seventh place. SDC-A 
was granted a rerun from this race as they 
were fouled by Delta Tau Delta. DTD 
was charged with interference and did 
not pass the brake test, so the buggy 
^s disqualified. Pika-B was not granted 
a rerun because they were far enough 
ahead that the foul did not affect them.
The ninth heat was taken by the even~ 
tual champion, Beta°A with Echo, in a 
time of 2.23.4. CIA-B, with a Streetcar 
Named Desire, ran a 2.3 2.9. DU-A was not 
allowed to run because they made changes 
in their unusual four-wheeled steering and 
braking system without notifying Safety 
HViairman Michael Gibbs.
Course bit by Pi-thonSN-A and Scorpion advanced to the 
finals in heat ten with a 2.27.2.’SAE-A 
ran the course in 2.39.9 and ATO-A ran 
a disappointing 2.47.8 in their new buggy.
Heat eleven saw Pika-A and Pi-thon 
move to Saturday’s races with a 2.22.8 
^ eclipse PKT-B (2.25.6)'and Pi Lambda
Track team 
carries 
momentum
*
by CRE
. L
Phi-A( 2.54.8):
Saturday’s races included four alumni 
races, two fun heats and the three final 
contests. The first alumni heat saw the 
greater part of Pika’s record setting team of 
last year run a fine solo 2.28.3. The second 
alumni heat was the closest race of the 
day as SAE (2.43.2)’ barely edged out Beta 
(2.44.4)! with KS(2.55.2):pulling up the 
rear. Another Pika team (2.37.8)’ 
beat out PKT(2.39.3): and DU(3.46.2)’ 
in the third race. Pika also took the fourth 
race in 2.34.4 over SAE (2.51.1).
In the fun heats, insituted to allow more 
participation from the student body, CIA 
Streetcar ran a 2.39.8 'over DTD(2.58.0)’ 
and Pi Lam (4.07.3); This Pi Lam Buggy 
featured CMU’s first all girl push team. 
The other fun heat was won by DTD
(2.48.3)5over SDC(2.58.1) and KS.
There was nothing fun and games about 
the remaining races. Six dedicated teams 
had worked very hard for months and had 
advanced to the final day of racing. Un­
fortunately, as in most things, only one of 
these valiant teams could win. On this' 
day, that winning team was Beta Theta Pi.
Beta’s “Echo” heard
In the first final heat, Beta-A (Echo) ran 
a 2.20.0 to beat Sigma Nu’s 2.23.2 !in 
Scorpion. According to Beckmann, the 
Scorpion actually rolled faster and further 
than Echo, but all that counts is the final 
time. The second heat between Pi-thon 
of Pika-A and 825" of Beta°B was rerun 
due to a wheel-locking incident in free 
roll. The judges ruled that the incident 
was not the fault of either driver. Beck­
mann commended both drivers, saying that 
they both knew not to brake right away 
which would have caused an accident. 
Also, he said that the Pika driver was 
knowledgeable about the rules because he 
stopped his bug£y completely when he 
thought a foul had been committed, as is 
stated in the rules.
In the 3rd final heat, CIA and Black 
Magic (2.22.2)! topped PKT-B(2.26.9)’ de­
spite complaints by Phi Kap that the CIA 
driver drove an unsafe course. Had the Phi 
Rap driver stopped, the PKT buggy would 
have been granted a rerun.
Pika-A had one final chance to take the 
Sweepstakes trophy for the fouth year in 
a row as the rerun with Beta-B came up as 
the last race of the day. The Beta buggy 
came in second in the race with a 2.2?.3, 
but by then the Beta followers were cheer­
ing the unoffical Pika time of 2.2 l’.O which 
left Beta A in first place by one full se­
cond.
Ah Spring! Is that the sun? Spring in 
Pittsburgh turns the thoughts of CMU 
athletes not to finals, but to outdoor track! 
Everyone seems to have a run track mind. 
The tracksters at Carnegie-Mellon have 
begun their current season. With apologies 
to all in the student body who thirst 
greatly for current CMU track results, my 
groupie readers, and finally the track team, 
the TARTAN failed to cover the opening 
meet two week-ends back. Since then, the 
team has performed very well in three 
meets, and carries momentum into the 
latter half of the season.
On Saturday April 8, the Tartans trav­
eled to Washington & Jefferson College for 
a meet between the host, W & J, Geneva 
College, and CMU. Led by freshman stand­
out jumper John Hamni, who won two 
events and placed in a third, the team de­
molished Washington & Jefferson 105—31, 
and Geneva 87—49, sweeping many events.
Sprints: Sophmore Joe Giansante won 
the 100 in 10.8 with Bob Kennedy second. 
Giansante also took second in the 220.
Middle-distance: John Lewandowski
made a “gutsy effort” in battling a strong
by Austin Gomez
The CMU soccer team travelled to 
Grove City, Pa. to compete in a twelve 
team invitational indoor soccer tourna­
ment on Saturday, April 8. Indoor soccer 
is played with five man teams, and each 
game consists of two ten minute halves. 
For this tournament, the field was split 
into two divisions, with the top two teams 
of each division after round-robin play qua­
lifying for the playoffs.
• Due to travelling difficulties, the Tar­
tans started their first game a man short. 
They still managed to hold Edinboro State 
scoreless until the rest of the team arrived 
with about three minutes remaining in the 
first half, at. which time Edinboro prompt­
ly scored. Latecomer, Keith Hordatt equal­
ized in the second half and the game ended 
tied 1-1. In their next game, CMU was 
forced to settle for another 1-1 tie with 
Beherend, John Hawkins getting the tally 
for the Tartans. A seasoned Indiana five 
was handed the next game 'by a series of 
less than intelligent defensive plays. Hor­
datt and Hawkins scored in the losing ef­
fort, Indiana winning 4-2. Grove City 
jumped out to an early 1-0 lead in the next 
game which was negated early in the 
second half by a hard Hordatt shot which 
the screened goalkeeper never saw. CMU 
captain John Hunt sabred the last two 
goals-one for each team--and the game 
ended in a 2-2 draw. In the final game,
CMU faced a powerful Slippery Rock team 
which had just humiliated Edinboro 6-1. 
The Rock drew first blood, but Hunt 
quickly tied the game. Freshman Karl Pave- 
leko then fired a quick shot through the 
opposing goalie and CMU had a surprising
2-1 lead at half. Some beautiful passwork 
led to the third Tartan goal which Hawkins 
got early in the second half. Hawkins made 
it 4-1 less than thirty seconds later, and 
Tom Binnie completed the rout shortly 
thereafter with a fine shot. Slippery Rock 
got one back near the end, but fell 5-2.
Althought their 1-1-3 was only good for 
third place, most of the team members 
were satisfied with their showing, especial­
ly since they went into the tournament 
with only one full week of practice. But 
even this modest level of success would not 
have been achieved had it not been for the 
labors of goalie Dan Carlin who played 
several fine games, and the court length 
runs of defenseman Tom Meagher which 
created many offensive opportunités. Spe­
cial mention also must go to freshman for­
ward, Colin Clement who was relegated to 
cheering after injuring himself after play­
ing for two minutes.
The soccer team plays in the gym twice 
each week. Anyone seriously considering 
playing varsity soccer next year is urged to 
contact Coach Gene Klein through the 
Athletic Office and come out to practice 
with the team.
headwind in the 440 to just fall short at 
the line. He placed second in 53.3 with 
Keith Knestaut third in 55.4. Larry 
Gordon took command early and won the 
880 in 2:04. Jeff Klaiber placed second in 
2:05.6. These were good times on a slow 
track.
Distance. Dario Donatelli won the mile 
in 4:36 with Steve Crelli second at 4:38.8. 
Barry Vukoder completed the sweep in 
third. Crelli and Steve Faloon won the
3-mile in solo efforts in a windy 15:57.
Hurdles: Ed O'Brien and Joe Goldcamp 
took one-two in the 120 yard highs with 
times of 16.1 and 16.5 respectively. Cap­
tain Rich Mengato (more on him in a later 
edition) fought hard to win the 440 inter­
mediates in 62.5.: O’Brien and Goldcamp 
were second and third in 62.6 and 63.1.
Jumps: Top-scorer John Hamm won 
both the long and triple jumps with marks 
of 19’ 2” and 42’ 1”. Bob Hyland was 
second in the long at 18’ 4”. Rich Mengato 
was second in the triple at 40’ 10”. Dave 
Walch and Matt Wehrle won the high jump 
at 6’ 2” with Hamm third in 5* 10**.
Weights: Mike Shaffer put the shot
40’ 7” to place second. Bert Murhammer 
put 40’ 4” to take a close third. Ed Stahura 
spun the discus 103’ to take third. In the 
javelin, Bob Skovransky armed a 170’ 10** 
to win. Tom Shaw was second marking 
156’. Joe Goldcamp tossed 147’ for third.
Relays: The 440 relay placed second in 
46.2. The mile relay strode to a windy 
victory in 3:40.
The Tartans’s home opener was billed 
against Hiram College on April 12. Spring 
was merely noticeable that day as the sun 
was hot and bright. The usual sparse crowd 
in the stands and on the hillside in the grass 
enjoyed the competition. But unfortunately 
the meet was run too slow to allow for any 
sustained interest from those watching. 
Nonetheless, the Tartans again performed 
well in both the field and track events, 
winning 77-63. Meet standouts were again 
in a field event, the high jump, as both 
Matt Wehrle and Dave Walch cleared a 
school record of 6’ 6”.
Sprints: Joe Giansante was the top 
Tartan placer as he earned a second in the 
100 in 10.4 and a third in the 220. Bob
_________________continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

page 26 - TARTAN - April 18, 1978
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 
HAS LOWEST STEREO 
PRICES____________
Pioneer SX980 Nactivw (369 
Technics S11900 Turn tab»« *120 
Akai CS702D CttMttt «126 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on 
major brands, even lower prices on our 
monthly specials sheet Send now and find 
out how to buy current $7 98 list Ip s (or 
*3 69 Stereo Clearance House Oept CM56 
1029 Jacoby St Johnstown, Pa 15902 
Phone Quotes81* 536 1611
The West Point 
Fitness and Diet 
Book
"THIS DECADE'S ROYAL 
CANADIAN AIR FORCE 
EXERCISE BOOKl"
A comprehensive, individualized and 
balanced fitness program for men and 
women, ages 8 to 80. By Col. James An­
derson, West Point's Director of Physical 
Education, it’s a unique program, devoid 
of gimmickry, for getting and staying in 
shape for life. Fully illustrated.
The New York Times Book Review hailed 
it as this decade s Royal Canadian Air 
Force Exercise Book”—and there are 
4,000,000 copies of that one in print.
•emu bookstore*
M BAKER HALL
Team carries momentum
ATTENTION SCIENCE 
AND ENGINEERING
MAJORS!
The Air Force has openings for voung men and women majoring in 
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical. Aerospace. 
General and Electncal Engineenng. Mathematics Physics and Com 
puter Technology 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year programs of study which will defrav some of your college 
costs
After completion of the AFROTC requirement and upon vour grad 
uation. you II be commissioned an officer in the Air Force Then comes 
responsibility, experience in vour specialty with some of the best peo 
pie and facilities in the world and a mission with a purpose Youll get 
excellent starting salarv. medical and dental care 30 days of paid va 
cation beginning vour first year and more
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away See what's in it 
for vou See how vou can serve vour country in return You'll be glad 
vou put vour major to work on a job that really coupts.
Call 624-6397 or see us in Room
435, Cathedral of Learning
ROTC
forces failing to show up for the team bus 
to go to the meet with Bethany College 
and Grove City College, the incomplete 
squad was narrowly beaten. It seems a 
shame that certain athletes feel that 
pushing a buggy more important than 
the commitment to the team and coaches. 
CMU lost the meet to Bethany 68—76. 
Grove City ran exhibition and was not in 
the team scoring.
Sprints: Bob Kennedy placed second in 
both sprints with times of 10.4 and 23.9. 
These are fíne times. Bob Hyland was third 
in the 220 in 25.3.
Middle-distance: Keith Knestaut placed 
third in the 440 at 55.7. Larry Gordon was 
second in the 880 timing 2:05.6.
Distance: In a strong attempt to win the 
meet in the closing stages, the three-milers ran. Dario Donatelli won the event in a fine 14:54 with Steve Crelli second in 15:30. 
Larry Gordon placed a gutsy fourth in a 
strange event for him. Donatelli and Crelli 
were again one-two in the mile at 4:37. arid 
4:42.7, with Bruce Krebbers third in a per­
sonal best.
Hurdles: Ed O’Brien, Joe Goldcamp, 
and Rich Mengato swept the highs in 15.7, 
15.8, and 15.9. Goldcamp and O’Brien 
were second and third in the intermediates 
in 61.2 and 61.5.
Jumps: John Hamm was third in the 
long at 19’ 3 Vi”. Geroge Canepa tripled a 
windy 43’ V4” with Hamm and Rich 
Mengato second and third at 40’ 11%” and 
40’ 9%”. In the high jump, Dave Walch 
won at 6’ 0” with Hamm second also at 
6’ 0”.
Weights: Ed Stahura won the discus at 
117’ 6Vi”. Tom Shaw and Bob Skovransky 
placed second and third in the javalin at 
160’ 11” and 157’ 4 Vi”. In the shot, Mike 
Shaffer was third at 38’ 3”.
Relays: Again, CMU lost both relays 
because of bad baton handling and lack of 
personnel. The mile relay team made a 
notable effort in the last event to try to 
pull the win out for the team title.
The Tartans have done very well at this 
point in the season. Battling some of the 
conference standouts, the team has won. 
Against Bethany, the Tartans almost won 
with half of the team showing up. This is a 
credit to the responsible team members. 
The real test for the team, especially for 
the distance team, will be a square-off 
against rival Case-Western Reserve. The 
meet will be held at home on Wednesday, 
April 1 19. Be there.
This sequence shows Beta's "Echo” and Sigma Nu's "Scorpion” in their final heat. 
Beta is shown well on its way to the winning time of 2:20:0.
IM fencing and archery on
The winners in Intramural Doubles Ta­
ble Tennis were Vinnie Chung and Elvis 
Pang who defeated Dan Rotar and Ron Da­
vis 3-1. Glenn Rosenthal, a freshman from 
DTD, captured the singles table tennis title 
by defeating Kasame Thanasuvakit 3-1.
There will be events for women only in 
the IM track meet on Friday April 21. The 
events are listed with the starting times: 
Shot Put, High Jump and Long Jump 
(4:30). 120-yard Low Hurdles (4;45), 880- 
yard relay (5:00), One Mile Run (5:10), 
100-yard dash (5:20), 440-yard dash 
(5:35), 880-yard dash (5:45), 220-yard 
dash (6:00) and one mile relay (6:15). 
Come out and run for fun!
IM fencing is coming up on April 27,
at 4:30, the Women’s Foil and Men’s Foil 
will be held at 7:30, the team competition 
(foil, epee, sabre) will start. Teams consist 
of three fencers...one fencer will fence foil, 
one epee, and one sabre. The teams may be 
all male, all female, or co-ed. A varsitv 
team member may be on the team if the/ 
fence a weapon they do not fence during 
the season. The limit is one varsity member 
to a team. Entries are due on Monday, A- 
pril 24 at 5 PM.
Archery will be held on Tuesday, May 2 
between 3:00 and 7:00. Men’s rounds are 
24 arrows at 20 yards and the team round 
will be 48 arrows at 20 yards. Entries ai11 
due at 5 PM on Tuesday, April 25.
Gateway to a great way of life.
continued from page 25
Kennedy was third in the 100 in 10.5.
Middle-distance: John Lewandowski
placed third in the 440 in a good 52.2. 
Larry Gordon just withstood Jeff Klaiber’s 
astonishing kick to win in a fíne 2:01.4 
to 2:01.5.
Distance: Dario Donatelli won twice in 
the mile and three-mile with times of 4:30 
and 15:11. Steve Crelli placed second in 
both in 4:38 and 15:20. Steve Faloon was 
third in the three-mile.
Hurdles: Joe Goldcamp stumbled over 
the last three hurdles in 120 highs and Ed 
O’Brien took advantage of it to win in 
15.7 to 16.1. Goldcamp ran a fíne 59.6 for 
second in the 440 intermediates with 
O’Brien third in 61.3.
Relays: Hiram won both the mile and 
the 440 relay as CMU had a few exchange 
problems. Lewandowski split 51.6, Wehrle 
52.0 in the mile relay.
High jump: Matt Wehrle and Dave 
Walch set a school record, with an excel­
lent height of 6’ 6”. This height is close to 
qualifying for the NCAA Nationals.
Long jump: John Hamm and Bob 
Hyland placed first and second with marks 
of 20’ and 19’ 2”.
Triple jump: Rich Mengato led a CMU 
sweep with a jump of 42’ 1 Vi”. George 
Canepa was second in 41’ 7”. John Hamm 
was third at 40’ 0”.
Weights: Bert Murhammer was second 
in the shot at 40’ 2Vi”. Tom Shaw was 
second in the javalin at 160’ 4Vi” with Bob 
Skovranksy third at 160’ 1”. In the discus, 
Ed Tahura threw 122’ 10” for third.
Every year the Spring Carnival and 
buggy races seem to hurt the CMU track 
team and Coach Gary Meckley. With major

---------------------------------------------------

April 18, 1978 - TARTAN - page 27
Sweepstakes seen through a trained eye
By Michael Gibbs
The word for Sweepstakes 197 I is ex­
citement. The three finals heats on Satur­
day morning were extremely close. The top 
five buggies were all within 3.3 seconds. 
The weather prevented any record breaking 
times, and no buggies broke the 2:20 bar-
But this was indeed a very special sweep­
stakes. For the First time in several years 
there were no major incidents or accidents. 
All of the drivers exhibited a fine display 
of driving skills. Some particularly good 
driving was seen on Friday in Heat 10. 
Three buggies, ATO’s Eagle, SAE‘s Hustler, 
and SN‘s Scorpion all topped hill 2 at the 
same time and went into free roll side by 
side. There was some jockeying for posi-
Collision in second heat
This sequence, shot from the lead car during last week's buggy race, shows the mishap between 
the Pi—thon of Pika and Beta's "825". This collision resulted in a rerun of the 2nd final heat.
photos by Ramanan
tion and even some bumping, but all three 
drivers maintained control of their vehicles 
and completed a good, safe race.
On Saturday morning PIKA’s Python 
ran a very close race with BETA’S 825. The 
first time down free roll the two buggies 
bumped several times before the PIKA 
driver was able to pull away, apply his 
brakes, and come to a safe and controlled 
stop. Both buggies were granted re-rolls 
because the judges ruled no foul had been 
committed by either team.
Excellent driving skills were shown by 
the drivers of these two buggies, Jim Curran 
and Rich Cappo, who avoided what could 
have been a terrible accident. In addition, 
Curran’s decision to bring his buggy to a
stop showed quick thinking and good 
judgment.
This year, unlike past years, the drivers 
of the different organizations were encour­
aged to discuss the particular courses they 
would be driving race day. This was to en­
sure that competing drivers would have a 
good idea of where the other buggies on 
the road would be and what type of course 
they would be taking. In this way passing 
another buggy would be safer and Çi<sier.
It was this sort of planting and coopera­
tion among organizations that made Sweep­
stakes 1978 safe. All of the bugjy chairmen 
should be complimented for running a 
good, tough competition vhib still main­
taining a good level of safety.
Canoe race makes debut
by Stan Diamond
The first International Concrete Canoe 
Championship will be held here in Pitts­
burgh on April 23 off of Point State Park 
(should the rivers be unmanageable, it will 
be held on North Park Lake).
This event is sponsored by the Civil Eng­
ineering Department, and the American So­
ciety of Civil Engineers in conjunction with 
the ASCE National Convention.
Around fifteen top quality schools from 
around the country and possibly Canada 
will be competing in men’s and women’s 
sprints, a relay and a distance race. To 
qualify each shool must have placed first, 
second, or third in another race held during 
the 1976-77, 77-78 academic years. Come 
and back your favorite team!
For more information, contact Stan 
Diamond, Civil Engineering Department.
GYM SHORTSCMU has champion volleyball club
The CMU Club Volleyball team clinched 
first place in the Western PA Intercollegiate 
Volleyball Association with one week re­
maining in the season as they stomped all 
competition at the Allegheny Invitational 
in Meadville.
CMU did not lose a game all day, a feat 
accomplished only once before, at the 
1977 CMU Invitational ( by CMU ). After 
sweeping all games in round robin play, the 
Tartans squashed Edinboro 15-11, 15-8, 
then proceeded to annihilate rival Indiana 
15-6,15-2.
The CMU defense was awesome,shutting 
down all of the leagued big hitters. On of - 
fense, John Price showed why he is the
best in Western Pennsylvania by slamming 
dozens of shots to the floor.
The last tourney of the season is at 
WVU. On Thursday, April 20, CMU will 
host the fourth place team in the semifinal 
playoff at Skibo Gym. The WPIVA finals 
will be the following week.
Previous to the Allegheny Invitational, 
losing to Cal State in exciting games, 
14-16, 15-7, 13-15. Cal State went on to 
defeat Edinboro in the final. At the East­
ern Seaboard Tournament over spring 
break, CMU faired poorly, losing to Mary­
land and George Mason University and de­
feating Gallaudet and Indiana.
Linksmen capture opening match
The CMU Golf team opened its season 
on Friday, April 7 by smashing Hiram 
400463. Tartan sophomore John Hawkins 
captured the medal with six over par 77 
on the squad’s home course—Longue Vue 
Country Club. Other CMU scores were 
Bill Mackin with 78, Jack Auturo and Tom 
Grimm had 81’s, Andy Raynovich shot 
83, and Tom Sheridan turned in an 84. 
Hiram’s scores ranged from Sean Scott’s 
82 to a 103 as the Ohio team wandered 
about the Western Pennsylvania country­
side aided by gusty spring winds.
The undefeated season lasted exactly 
one week as the Tartan team ran into
high winds, slick greens, and a hot team 
from Duquesne last Friday and 
lost by ten strokes—414-404. The Dukes’ 
Perry Graciano fired a two over 73 at 
Longue Vue to lead the field. CMU was 
paced by Hawkins’ 76, Arturo carded 81, 
Mackin fired 83, Raynovich and Sheridan 
came in with 87’s, and Grimm struggled to 
a 91.
The team returns to action today when 
they host Westminster College at 1:30. 
Thursday they travel to a tournament in 
Wheeling and Friday they take on Thiel 
somewhere in Ohio.
Tennis team defeats Thiel, drops two
Carnegie Mellon’s tennis team finished 
a week of 3 matches by defeating Thiel and 
losing to John Carroll and Dusquesne.
The Tartans have an overall spring re­
cord of 2 wins, 3 losses and are now 2 and 
1 in the President’s Conference.
On Monday, the netters went to John 
Carroll, losing their 1st conference match 
6-3. Four of the 6 singles matches went 3 
close sets with John Carroll going into the 
doubles with a 4-2 advantage. Close doub­
les matches saw John Carroll win at 2 posi­
tions to give John Carroll the match victo­
ry-
Wednesday, the CMU Tartans hosted 
Thiel at home and defeated the Tomcats 
6-3 to put CMU at 2-1 in conference play.
Duquesne repeated their fall exhibition 
season score of 6-3 once again on Satur-
Gary Kemery and John Sze in singles and 
doubles to give 3 point to Dusquesne. CMU 
losses at 5 and 6 singles and 3 doubles 
clinched the victory for Duquesne.
Carnegie-Mellon made strong showings 
at 3rd singles as Greg Maskarinec, freshman 
from Youngstown, Ohio defeated Mark 
Lerch 6-1; 6-2. Mike Straub, sophomore, 
beat Don Ranalli of Dusquesne in straight 
sets 6-4; 7-5. Greg and Mike are playing 
aggressively and have compiled overall 
records of 4-1 in singles.
Three home conferfence matches are on 
the schedule for the Tartans this week. 
Monday, April 17 Bethany will be home at 
3:00 PM. Wednesday, the 1977 PAC Con­
ference Champions Case Western, play at 
3:00 and on Saturday, April 22, Hiram 
comes to CMU at 1:00 PM.mm

---------------------------------------------------

\
Don’t Be
LimitedNumber.
*
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
André Previn, Music Director
1978 - 1979 Season Join the Student Spring Rush
The spring rush is on now for the exciting 1978-1979 Symphony Season. For the first 
time you can send in your order today for next season's subscription. We are able to offer 
full time undergraduate students this special discount to register now for tickets to next 
season s series .
—12 Thursday evening concerts for $20 (Series D)
—24 Sunday afternoon concerts for $30 (Series B)
— 12 Sunday afternoon concerts for $20 (Series B-1 or B-2)
Join with the Pittsburgh Symphony and celebrate the Previn era!
To order your tickets today:
1Fill out the order form below for the Series you prefer, listing a second Series 
choice.Be sure to include your mailing address as of Sept 1 when the tickets will be 
mailed to you. If you do not know your Sept. mailing address, you may plan to pick up your tickets at the Symphony office (Sales Dept.) after Sept 1 Please bring your current student I D. card with you.
Attach a photo-copy of your current student I D cardAttach a check or money order payable to the Pittsburgh Symphony. No order will be accepted without payment in full. Your cancelled check is your receipt 
You must be prepared to show a valid student I D card at each concert
Program 1978-79 SeasonSeries
3BB1B2Thur» 8 pmSun. 2:30Sun.2 30Sun2 30
Previn Stoppard s Every Good Boy Deserves FavourSept 10Sept10with acting cast
Previn Margaret Price - Ginastera Strauss DebussySept14Sept 17Sept 1.7
Previn Voice and Instrument Quartet forSept 24Sept24Britten - Strauss Quixote
Previn Isaac Stern plays Penderecki - Walton MozartSept28Oct 1Oct1
Previn Pianist Zeltser plays Prokofiev - Rossini.Oct 15Oct15Rachmaninov
Johanos Eugene Fodor ViolinistOct26Oct 29Oct29Johanos Am Kavafian Violinist plays Bruch. 
Ginastera NielsenNov 5Nov5
Comissiona Judith Burganger Pianist plays 
Rachmaninov Debussy StravinskyNov 26Nov26
Johanos Rudolf Firkusny. Pianist playsNov30Dec 3Dec3Dvorak - Copland
Steinberg Shlomo Mintz ViolinistDec 17Dec17
Steinberg Misha Dichter Pianist - All Mozart ProgramDec21Dec 24Dec24
Kondrashm Vladimir Spivakov. ViolinistJan 7Jan7
Tuck well Elisabeth Söderström SopranoJan11Jan 14Jan14
Previn Conductor and pianist - Mendelssohn -FebÖl-eb 11Feb11Carmma Burana
Previn Ashkenazy plays Brahms Concerto No 1Feb 18Feb18Previn Itzhak Perlman ViolinistFeb22Feb 25Feb25Previn Alicia de Larrocha in an allMar 11Mar11Beethoven Concerto program
Previn de Larrocha concludes Beethoven 
Concerto seriesMar15'Mar 18Mar18
Steinberg Philippe Entremont PianistApr12Apr 15Apr15
Johanos Three Rivers Piano Competition WinnerApr 22Apr22
Previn Yo Yo Ma Cellist plays Haydn-Randolph KellyMay 6Violist piavs Bartók SerlyMay 3May b
Previn Krystian Zimerman Pianist plays Rachmaninov sMay 13Concerto No 1May 13
Prevm Andre Watts Pianist playsMay17May 20Saint Saens BrahmsMay 20
Previn Louis Paul plays MusgraveMay 2 'May 2.'
Detach and mail to
Pittsburgh Symphony (Student) 
Heinz Hall
600 Penn Ave/First Time! 
Subscribe Now!
Pittsburgh. Pa 15222
Attached is a copy of my current student I D card and my check or money order payable
to the Pittsburgh Symphony, in the amount of $__________for which please send me
'_____(2 seats max per order) Student Subscriptions to the following series
Check one .„Thursday Series D (12 concerts) at $20 per seat 
Sunday Series B (24 concerts) at $30 per seat
_________Sunday Series B-1 (12 concerts) at $20 per seat
Sunday Series B-2 (12 concerts) at ¿20 per seat 
Second Choice (please include)_________
single seats if no pairs are availableI will accept 
I will not accept i
If this order is not completely and correctly filled out, it will be returned to you.
Name ___________ ____________________________________________ . . .
Summer Address (Juty. August) ________ ____________________
City State Zip
Schoo Date of Graduation __ Summer Phone
Mailing Address _____-_____________________
as of Sep’ 1 for tickets (see instruction #2 above)
City
Phone (as of Sept 1)
StateI
I
i Signature______.______________________________________________
