tartan
November 13, 1973 Volume 74 Number 9
Bike Security 
Move Stalled
by Sandy Como
C-MAP Benches 
Basket ball-Star
"could care less” 
says Johnson
by Rob Simbeck
Clyde Carter thought he’d be able to 
play basketball when he came to CMU this 
fall.
But he can’t. Due to a C-MAP scholar­
ship which violates the rules of the 
President’s Athletic Conference, he has 
been declared ineligible.
The scholarship is only one obstacle to 
Carter’s playing ball. The other is C-MAP*s 
insistence that for their students, 
academics must precede athletics.
“I could care less if he ever played a day 
of basketball-that’s me personally. I’m 
generally opposed to freshmen doing 
anything until they’re adjusted to what’s 
going down,” says Norman Johnson, 
Director of C-MAP.
C-MAP waited a long time before 
moving to solve Carter’s problem. The fact 
that the scholarship violated PAC rules was 
known in mid-September, but action 
continued on^age 6
Flaherty Wins 
Pleas Judgeship
by Michael Scott Baum
Bicycle racks inside academic buildings 
and dormitories could be a solution to the 
problem of increasing theft. But university 
officials and students all seem to be waiting 
for somebody else to make the decision to 
install them.
* No one can even say exactly how severe 
the problem of theft is.
Security Coordinator James Van Riper 
says, “According to the number of bike 
theft reports filed in the office in the first 
two months of the 73-74 school year, 
bicycle theft has increased significantly.” 
However, he pointed out that the only real 
statistics compiled on the matter come 
from a short survey which found only that 
23 stolen bike reports had been filed at the 
Security Office during the month of 
September. Van Riper said that no other 
efforts have been made by Security to 
investigate the thefts, and that no studies 
have been conducted to determine the 
conditions surrounding the thefts in order 
that they might be halted.
Dean of Student Affairs Earle R. Swank 
said that the high rate of bicycle theft 
might be lowered if the university could
Former CMU lecturer John Flaherty has 
been elected to the bench of the Allegheny 
County Court of Common Pleas. With a 
total of 19 Democrat, Republican, and 
Constitutional party candidates seeking 
judgeships, Flaherty won one of ten open 
seats. A Democrat, he received 175,359 
votes.
Flaherty attributed much of his success 
to the many CMU students who diligently 
campaigned in his behalf. “I don’t know 
how to thank the students for what they 
did. 1 have always believed in the 
students. ..” remarked Flaherty in an in­
terview moments after his victory. Another 
important group of supporters was the U- 
nited Dairy Farmers; Flaherty has been an 
effective speaker in support of their efforts 
to quench controls on milk prices.
The CMU campus has been plastered 
with Flaherty posters and with flyers re­
questing student volunteers to work in the 
campaign. Even the Pi Kappa Alpha fire 
truck was sent out on alarm for Flaherty.
Flaherty, a law instructor, was fired by 
Richard W. Deckmann, Director of the 
GSIA evening school, a few days before the 
beginning of the semester. The controversy 
over his dismissal continues and an investi­
gation of the affair is being conducted by 
the Senate Committee on Academic 
Affairs.
continued on page 8 Judge John Flaherty. Photo by Carl Grefenstette
Grad Arrested hr Flag Art
Guitarist Hurt in TG Rumble
by Steve Saunders
Last Friday’s all-night TGIF was 
disrupted and the lead singer for the group 
Diamond Rio was injured when an alter­
cation broke out between some alleged 
outsiders and members of the group.
Security didn’t arrive until the outsiders 
had left.
“If we had been asked to provide extra 
security we would have,” a spokesman for 
security said. “But we normally do not 
provide extra security for TGIF and we 
had no knowledge that this one would be 
different from any other.”
According to Steve Perkins, bass player 
for the group, violence broke out when one 
of the outsiders tried to steal one of the 
group’s guitars. As he was trying to get 
away, Diamond Rio’s lead guitar player, 
Randy Frost, tackled him. One of this 
man’s friends then produced a bottle from 
underneath his coat and hit the band’s lead 
singer over the head.
The ensuing fight lasted several minutes. 
The group “Sassafras” was forced to stop 
playing until things quieted down.
The hostilities began some time before 
this, said Perkins, when one of the out­
siders started “hassling” a girl who was
with a friend of the band. A shouting 
match began and “words were exchanged” 
for some time before the actual fracas took 
place.
Fred Hornsby, lead singer, was taken to 
Shadyside Hospital and the group was 
forced to cancel their show.
Perkins commented that the people 
were “obviously looking for trouble.”
When the fight broke up, the outsiders 
left and Security appeared on the scene. 
The band asked to press charges, but the 
officers pointed out that the identity of 
the people involved was unknown. They 
also refused to call the police, since the 
trouble was essentially over and because 
they didn’t want city police involved in an 
essentially campus problem.
“He (Security) really should have called 
the police, however,” complained Perkins. 
i After Security left, the outsiders 
returned, allegedly armed with knives. The 
band left quickly at this point, but were 
apparently followed home. Sometime 
during the night, one of the members of 
the band had all the windows in his car 
broken.
This was witnessed by two gas station 
attendants, who reported the license 
number of the car containing the assailants 
to the police.
by Debbie Siegel
« A C-MU alumnus is preparing to stand 
trial for painting on the American flag.
Bill Mogush was arrested on June 3,
1973 outside the Three Rivers Arts Festival 
for displaying a 4 foot by 6 foot American ! 
flag overpainted with a swastika, a repre­
sentation of aborted babies, and the date 
“January 22, 1973.” January 22 is the date 
of a Supreme Court decision to legalize •
* limited abortion.
The painting was first shown for three 
hours at the Pavilion area of Gateway 
Center. Then Barbara Pierce Widdoes, the 
Executive Head of the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, requested the picture’s removal.
Mogush moved it to the sidewalk in 
front of the festival. He made a sign that 
read: “The flag is more sacred than human
* life”, and continued to show the painting.
Within a half hour, Mogush was arrested by 
a group of four policemen.
“I had something important to say and 
because I couldn’t say what I wanted in the 
Festival area, I was determined to say it in 
the public area, regardless,” Mogush says.
He recalls that Ms. Widdoes asked him to 
move the painting because she thought it
* would offend some of the tenants who 
gave permission for the festival to use the 
pavilion area.
Ms. Widdoes tells the story somewhat -*
differently. Her summary of the events officer Wilbert Patterson displays Bill Mogush's controversial painting, 
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—T*JC TARTAN—Tuesday, November 13, 19731
£ -SVG r .sr isdmovpH ,Y6b29uT /.ATflAT 3HT
EDITOR’S MOTE
The final self-indulgence.
This is my last editorial and the most difficult one. In the true spirit of 
the ever-changing stream of time, / am stepping down as Editor-in-Chief of 
the TARTAN. Next week this space will be filled by the present Admin­
istrative Editor, Chris Infante.
This has not been a hasty decision. It has been planned for some time. / 
am not leaving in a huff or in a fit of frustration. Nor is the name Steve 
Saunders going to disappear from the mast head. In fact, there will 
probably be more articles under that byline than ever before. All this 
means, for those who read and care about our campus newspaper, is that 
the Saunders “era” has passed and the Infante term has officially 
begun. The TARTAN will be subject to new ideas and a new train of 
thought.
Last December, in my first “Editor’s Note”, ideals and goals were set 
forth. Now is the time to re-evaluate them.
“The word / want to emphasize is responsiveness . Having few real 
preconceptions about the way the university is run and few messages to 
preach, the editorial policy will be one of rational response to the 
important issues on this campus”. This was naive. The editorial policy has 
been responsive. Dialogue has always been possible. But preconceptions 
were quickly formed, and preaching has become easier and easier.
“Goals: to tread the line between rhetorical over statement and inef­
fectuality”. This was perhaps the vaguest phrase I’ve ever written. It was a 
difficult line to tread also. Some editorials have been too bombastic, 
others have been too trivial. A few were right on the button. As a whole, 
they have been interesting to write. And dose enough to the prqper line, / 
think.
“to find a compromise between my own personal opinion and the 
separate interests of the different segments of the university”. This has 
been a constant battle. But, with the proper advisors, not a difficult one 
to overcome.
“to remember that the function of a student newspaper is also to 
provide a worthwhile, interesting activity and make working on the 
TARTAN an enjoyable, educational, and artistically satisfying exper­
ience”. Yes, we’ve had fun. And learned a lot. Sometimes the hard way. 
We’ve learned that artistic satisfaction is a near-impossible goal for a 
college newspaper. But we’ve also learned that there are other joys-the 
look of a particular page, the excitment of a particular story, the fuzzy- 
eyed delirious comraderie of late nights around the light table.
I would sincerely like to thank everyone who has worked with me 
during the last year. Ed Levine; Elliot Arons; Jeff Englund; Sue Klein; 
Shelley Burhans; Lester Nathan; Dywane Smalls; Debbie Siegel; and es­
pecially Steve Correll, who has been an outstanding, hard-working, and 
exceptionally talented voice of reason; Gary Singer, who has been a 
driving force and like a brother to me for almost a year; and Chris Infante, 
who has been wonderfully impressive, wise, and efficient while preparing 
to take over as “the chief”. A finer Editorial Board could not be found.
1973 has been quite a year. The Vietnam war has ended for the U.S. 
The energy crisis has begun. The government has almost crumbled. An­
other war has begun. The private university is in a fight for its’ life. 
Uncertainty about the future surrounds us.
But 1973 was also a year when a sometimes shy, sometimes boisterous 
young man had his life revolutionized by stumbling into an open position 
at the top. And the TARTAN.... ah! The TARTAN—my life and breath 
for nearly a year—is going on to bigger and better things.
Stephen Saunders 
Editor in Chief
ATTENTION:
Anyone interested in working 
on the TARTAN next semester 
please inquire at the TARTAN 
office, Room 50, Skibo.
The News-Features Staff meets 
every Thursday night at 7:00 p.m. 
Designers are needed on 
Saturday afternoons for production.
Letters:
Editor:
It’s a pity that Walt Kelly, the creator of 
Pogo, had to die when he did. Mr. Kelly 
was always amused by the work of our 
politicians; he called them “the great all 
time true comedians . . . not kidding for a 
moment.” Now when it becomes obvious 
that they are true comedians, the man who 
would appreciate it most isn’t here to 
enjoy it. And things are funnier than ever.
Spiro Agnew is a private citizen again, 
not in jail as some wished, but with a credit 
rating that couldn’t buy a phone book. Our 
Secretary of State is sounding more and 
more like a character Peter Sellers once 
played, and the transient Attorney General 
looked like a Transylvanian.^
Meanwhile the head man is trying to 
save the show as it grows more out of 
hand. Our biggest supply of energy is soon 
going to be from a Sterno can. Israel is 
going to invade New Jersey and an atomic 
bomb will hit Minnesota. Our government 
is so tied down in scandal it soon won’t be 
able to process a parking ticket.
Everyone agrees an impeachment would 
be fun, with lots’of gore for copy and 
perhaps a crucifixion at the end. But 
crucifixions don’t always work out the way 
the men with the hammer planned. Only 
through a resignation can we salvage any 
honor out of this affair, and honor is a rare 
commodity these days. Richard Nixon 
would be wise to take advantage of this 
opportunity to end his term of office with 
an act for the ultimate good of the nation.Fred Reiner Class of ’76
continued on page 7
'Ni mv
tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
News Editor........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . . "couuol darces”
Head Reporter....................Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff.............................
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton 
Kevin Turcotte, LoisWholey 
Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
yJarhsol ner”Js ,|Bryan Smith. Frank Stein
Entertainment Editor
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls
, . Susan N. Klein
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Craig Collins, Nonie Dempsey 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Debbie Weiss, Hgnk Levy, Sharon Neustein 
Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt 
Mark Evan Chimsky,Doug Stone
Sports Editor ....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff ..... : . Glenn Campbell 
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Layout Staff................Arlene Berkowitz
Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Copv Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Cartoonist...........................Ron Wiggins
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the studem 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on th& Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in $kibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

£-f .--UIAT^AT ?0f>
THE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 13, 1973-Page 3
• NEWS COMMENT
I have for some time wanted to write another column for the TARTAN, and this 
appears to be an appropriate time to comment on a number of current matters that I 
hope will be of interest to you students.
All of you know that 1972-73 was a good year financially; we were able to finish 
in the black. This was accomplished by a combination of cutting costs below those 
budgeted and increasing our income from endowment and gifts above that budgeted. 
The net result of the successful management of our financial affairs has increased 
significantly the willingness of others to contribute funds to the University. I am 
pleased with the support that all of you, as well as the alumni, faculty and staff, have 
given to CMU to make this accomplishment possible.
Our total enrollment has held about steady with last year in terms of full-time 
equivalents. Undergraduate day enrollment is up slightly from 1972-73, and the 
freshman class shows a significant increase (about 77 students over last year’s entering 
class). Our full-time equivalent, however, continues to be about the same mainly 
because of the decline in the evening program. The increase in the freshman class is
• gratifying for several reasons. It shows continued interest in CMU and it reflects a 
renewed interest in engineering. The latter is important for this University, but more 
important for society as a whole. We are continuing to try to improve our educational 
programs, and the admissions office is doing an excellent job of bringing the message 
to an increasing number of high school seniors. All signs so far lead me to be optimistic 
about a continued growth in applications and attendance for 1974-75.
In my annual report I have made an analysis of the problems involved in 
maintaining a viable mixed system of public and private institutions at the university 
level. I elaborated on this argument at a press conference which has been reported in 
£ the local press and in the TARTAN. I am generally pleased with the quality of the 
reporting in both places. However, one point that I stressed did not get proper 
attention; therefore, I would like to stress it here. In no way do I feel that the 
existence of Carnegie-Mellon is threatened by public universities. A number of 
high-quality, private institutions with good endowments will continue to survive even 
if the current policy of significant subsidies to public universities continues. On the 
basis of our planning studies, I have absolutely no doubt about the future of this 
University. I am, however, concerned with some of the outstanding liberal arts colleges 
that are completely dependent on student tuition and that add greatly to the 
^ educational alternatives open to students. If the tuition gap between public and private 
institutions is permitted to grow larger, these colleges eventually will be driven out of 
business by the subsidized public institutions and education in our country will be the 
poorer for it.
I also want to say a word about the tuition increase for next year. A number of 
people have questioned whether this increase is needed since we have maintained our 
operation in the black this past year and prospects for 1973-74 are good. The answer 
lies in understanding our finances. First, we presented a balanced 1973-74 budget 
partly by utilizing dollars accumulated in restricted funds from past years. For m example, various professorships accumulated money because they were not filled for a 
period or because all the funds were not needed during a particular year. We are 
utilizing approximately $700,000 of such funds for the current year- something that 
can be done only once.
Second, there are increases in our operating expenses that we have to face. An 
increase of approximately $200,000 per year for steam will come as a result of closing 
our boiler plant and hooking up to the Bellefield Power Plant. I am hopeful that we 
can get from outside sources the roughly $1,000,000 that will be required to make this 
connection, but aside from the capital costs our costs for producing steam will be 
g, higher. However, it is important for us to proceed as a good citizen of Pittsburgh since 
our current plant does not meet the pollution standards.
Third, we have and will continue to incur other increased costs of utilities. The 
telephone company, power companies, and the gas company have received or 
requested rate increases. Finally, we must continue to pay salaries necessary to attract 
and maintain an outstanding faculty. All of these factors led us to conclude that a 
tuition increase is needed to meet the costs and that regular increases probably are 
necessary in the future. Part of the increase always goes into the dollars that we award 
in scholarships.. I am hopeful that the rate of inflation will reduce somewhat so that we can hold
out tuition at the new level for several years and slow down future increases. 
Obviously, I cannot promise that this will be the case, but I can assure you that I will 
do my utmost toward that end. When I am once again on the campus radio (this will 
be accomplished when WRCT goes FM), I would be pleased to entertain questions on 
this topic. If any of you do have pressing quesitons now, however, please do not 
hesitate to drop me a line or make an appointment to see me. I will be happy to try to 
answer your questions to the best of my ability.
Through the student policy committee I am aware of the concern that is felt 
about the housekeeping on campus. We are continuing to watch the situation carefully 
and are looking for ways to improve our capability for keeping our buildings clean and 
our grounds attractive. I think it is clear to everyone, however, that I am trying to 
keep the nonacademic expenditures to a minimum so that we can "maintain and 
improve the quality of our academic operations.
The Fine Arts renovation that I discussed in a column last year is about to 
become a reality. We are in the last stages of the process of awarding contracts to the 
low bidders for the various parts of the renovation. The total expenditures will be 
about $2,500,000. The funds have been provided by private foundations, alumni, 
friends, and the federal government. This renovation should go a long distance toward 
improving the situation in Fine Arts. It will not by any means completely solve the 
problem of space and facilities for Fine Arts, but it will be a significant first step. 
Further planning is needed to help, in particular, Architecture.
We recently received an important three-year grant of $300,000 from the 
Carnegie Corporation of New York. It will be for purposes that I would classify as 
intellectual self-renewal. Among other things, we are hopeful of being able to offer 
research grants to students, to faculty, and to combinations of students and faculty for 
the improvement of the quality of our teaching and in particular for the increase in 
productivity of our teaching with no decrease in quality. There are some procedural 
problems to be straightened out before we make a formal offer of the program, but I 
am looking forward to getting some significant student help in this very important 
area. We are gratified by the grant. We think we will be able to do some real innovative 
and creative things with it. As you know, CMU has always had the reputation for being 
innovative in the educational area, and we want to continue to merit this reputation.
In conclusion I would like to thank all of you for the support you have given me 
over the past year. I hope that it will continue. I want to maintain our lines of 
communication and if possible to extend them. I am meeting on a regular basis with 
the student policy committee. I will begin the campus radio program as soon as 
possible, and will try to do some more columns of this kind in the future. At the same 
time, I want you to know that I am accessible. If you have problems that are not being 
handled within the current structure, of if you have suggestions for improvement, or if 
you just wish to meet me, I will be pleased to set up an appointment with you. I 
cannot guarantee my instant availability, but I can assure you that I will see you as 
soon as possible. I want your help in our continuing efforts to improve this University.
Richard M. Cyert President, CMU
CMU EVENTS DISRUPTED
Who is attracted to Activities Board musical events?
Carnegie-Mellon prided Itself in the type of students that it attracts, yet 
during the last two Activities Board's musical events, namely the Home- 
coming Concert featuring Frank Zappa and last week's all-night TGIF, 
there were disruptions unfitting the student body of this university. The 
Zappa concert's audience caused the breaking of some windows in the 
gym where the concert was held and literally broke down one of the 
doors. Even though the £B cleared $1000 profit on the Zappa concert, 
they were uncertain of the exact amount of money they would be able to 
keep from this profit since some or all of it had to be used to pay for the 
repairs to the Gymnasium.
Last Friday night’s TGIF was plagued with even more violence The 
exact details vary. Regardless of who was hurt and why, the facts do 
confirm that violence did erupt and that it was serious enought that 
security advised that TG be shut down early because of the jumpiness in 
the air. of the "jumpiness in the air”.
How can this “high quality, private institution” as described by Dr. 
Cyert, be the host of such uncivilized behavior? Can CMU students actually 
be as undisciplined as these events suggest?
According to a security officer who wishes to be unnamed, TGIF is 
always populated by more people from off the campus than on it. It is my 
contention that it is these outsiders that arecausingall the problems. CMU 
students ave demonstrated their social responsibility at such events as the 
Edgar Mitchell lecture and the Friday night A B movies, which are primar­
ily composed of CMU students.
The solution to the problem is more complex than just forbidding 
non-CMU students from attending CMU events. The Activities Board relies 
on outsiders to “fill up the house” for such large scale concerts as Zappa. 
Since CMU is such a small community, AB cannot rely on CMU students 
to buy out their concerts.
TG presents another problem. Many CMU students do attend TG's and 
many welcome the chance to meet new people. Thus, off campus people 
should be allowed to attendthese events.
The solution lies in what kind of off-campus students the university 
events attempt to attract. Instead of aiming for a primarily high school 
crowd, CMU’s Activities Board should establish programs that invite 
students from the other Pittsburgh campuses. Maybe carding should be 
re-instated for TG’s, but in this case any valid college ID should be 
accepted with invitations expressed to students of the other campuses. 
Concert programs should not be groups like Zappa that seem to invite a 
high school crowd, but rather groups that interest a quieter, more orderly 
audience.
In any case, until AB learns its’ lesson, CMU security ought to assign 
more men to these events. This university should not host any kind of 
pointless disorder if it intends to keep its community minded image.
It was exactly a year ago that / became the News Editor for the 
TARTAN. At the same time Stephen Saunders assumed the duties of 
Editor in Chief, replacing the graduating Steve Jurman. Working very 
closely during the past year, disagreeing more than agreeing, Steve 
Saunders has proven himself a responsible, responsive leader who has 
brought the TARTAN a large step closer to the N. Y. Times (the ultimate 
goal). / can truly confess that he has won my respect and deserves the 
same from the general campus community. Gary Singer
Managing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, Novembén'îtfc 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Mellon Institute chorus is preparing
for its annual Christmas performance. Un­
der the inspiring direction of Paul Koch, 
and accompanied by his talented wife Kay 
Koch the Mellon Institute chorus rehearses 
every Tuesday from 12:30 to 1:30 in the 
3rd floor conference room. All members of 
the Carnegie-Mellon community are cor­
dially invited to participate. So come ye 
sopranos, altos, tenors and basses. You will 
see that this year's music is particularly 
outstanding in terms of its variety in tra­
ditional and non-traditional numbers This 
year's program will be held on Friday, 
December 14 in the Mellon l-nstitute 
Auditorium at 8:30 pm.
An Inter-campus Graduate Social
sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center, will be held Saturday, 
November 17 at 9 pm. in the Hillel 
Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S. Belief ¡eld Ave. 
Come and meet graduate students from 
other campuses in an informal atmosphere, 
Refreshments.
Women, if you enjoy basketball, and would
rather not wait for the regular season to 
begin in January, then come on over to the 
women's gym and start working out. There 
is a game scheduled for December 2nd at 
Seton Hill, so this pre-season practice will 
not go to waste. See you at the gym on: 
Friday, Nov. 16, 4:30-7:00; Thursday, 
Nov. 29, 7:00-9:00; Friday, Nov. 30, 
4:3a 7:00.
All students are invited to attend an
informal discussion on unique undergradu­
ate and graduate educational opportunities 
at CIT. Meet and talk with Deans and pro­
gram heads over beer, soda and pretzels. 
Wednesday, November 14, Pi Kappa Alpha 
Fraternity house basement, 8 pm. Spon­
sored by MMS Metals Club of CMU. Speak­
ers: Dean D.L. Feucht: Double Major Pro­
grams; Prof. R.W. Dunlap: Engineering and 
Public Affairs; Prof. T.A. Reichert: Bio­
technology Program; Prof. G.E. Dieter: 
Processing Research Institute.
The French Cultural Center will give a
dancing-Ball for the 70th anniversary of 
the "Alliance Française” Saturday, Novem­
ber 17th from 9 pm. in the Student Union 
Ballroom of Pitt. A donation of 3 dollars 
will be asked. You will dance accompanied 
by an orchestra of the Music Department, 
and drink whatever you want from the 
cash bar. Informal. Students, faculty and 
staff welcome.
Contemporary Ukranian Literature will be
the subject of a new series of five lectures 
by Dr. Danulo Struk of the University of 
Toronto at 7:30 pm., November 13, 14, 
15, 19 and 20 at the Department of So­
ciology's Mervis Hall, University Place, 
Oakland. For further details, please tele­
phone Marta Farley at 362-0462 or Luba 
Hludkowsky at 279-5911.
The Department of Modern Languages is
about to undertake an innovative new pro­
gram oriented toward the development of 
translation skills. The immediate conse­
quence of this program has been the estab­
lishment of the "CMU Translation Center." 
The translation center hopes to extend 
translation services to the campus commu­
nity and eventually to outside business. 
But first we would like to present in more 
detail the opportunities for interested peo­
ple. To accomplish this, all interested stu­
dents (grad or undergrad) are cordially in­
vited to attend an organizational meeting 
on Thursday, November 15, MMMC 3£3, 
from 2:30 to 4:30 pm. Topics to be dis­
cussed include: The distinct possibilities of 
earning cash by doing translations, and the 
opportunity for accredidation as a 
translator in your language.
A Jewish Philosophy Series is held on
Sunday, November 18 at 7:30 pm. in the 
Hillel Lounge. Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
will speak on "The Jewish People-A Nation 
or a Religion?" It is sponsored by B'nai 
8'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center.
Two art scholarships have just been
received. They are: 1) American Academy 
in Rome Fellowships for graduate students 
only. Applications due December 31, 
1973. 2) The F. Lamont Belin Arts Schol­
arship graduates and undergraduates eligi­
ble. Applications due January 15, 1974. 
Details available in 207 Warner Hall.
Spring Parnival: The first organizational
meeting for Spring Carnival '74 will be held 
today, Tuesday November 13, in Skibo 11 
at 4:30 pm. Anyone interested in helping 
with Carnival should-show up. If you can't 
make it, please leave your name and phone 
number at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Slides of last year's Carnival will be shown, 
and everyone is welcome.
Thinking of Graduate School? If so, you
are welcome to use the Alumni Office's 
lists to contact the CMU alumni who are at 
the schools you are considering. CMU has 
more than 4,000 alumni who are graduate 
students, faculty members and administra­
tors at colleges and universities across the 
country. Such a contact might help you 
learn more about the academic and social 
environment of that particular school. Any 
student interested in utilizing the lists for 
this prupose should see Ron Broughman in 
the Alumni Office, 5th floor of Warner 
Hall.
Anyone interested in playing Lacrosse
contact Fred Cohen Monday-Thursday 6-8 
pm. 683-0236, Bob Kimieata 421-8174 or 
leave a message at Skibo. Look in the 
TARTAN and listen tot W.R.CT for further 
announcements.
The Oakland Review needs student
interest! both in submissions and in 
working on the magazine. We need a 
business manager and an art staff; 
submissions of your work are due by 
November 30. All interested students are 
invited to the next meeting, Tuesday, 
November 20 at 11:30 in BH 255A, or you 
can contact us through the English Office. 
“It doesn't pay, but it's prestigious."
Lunch is served Monday through Thursday,
11:30-1 at Cafe Tel Aviv, 3rd floor, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave. It is sponsored by B'nai 
B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center.
H&SS students are entitled to drop one
course without penalty up to three weeks 
before the end of the semester. The final 
date for this semester, therefore, is Wed­
nesday, November 21. Students should 
initiate drops by a visit to their advisor.
Israeli and Folk Dancing is held Monday
evenings, at 7:30 pm. in the Hillel Lounge. 
It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Careers Nite: November 15, 8 pm. Baker
Hell 340-A. The Department of Psychology 
announces a Careers Nite for psychology 
majors or graduates interested in careers in 
psychology. Some of our graduate students 
will talk about their experiences and jobs.
Classified Ads
BLAZERS, JACKETS, TROUSERS
Wholesale prices to clubs, teams and frater­
nities. Specialty Clothing Company, 1023 
5th Avenue, near Chatham Center. 
341-1288.
Females: Nude photographic modeling.
$5-7 hourly. Reply: Image Creators, P.O. 
Box 13200, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15243.
Selling: JVC AM/FM radio and cassette
with turntable. $150. 441-5211.
For Immediate sale: Univox 6 (steel)
string, new strings, with case. Both in fabu­
lous condition. Guitar has excellent action, 
good for beginner or experienced guitarist. 
$150 new, for sale to the first $100 that 
want them. 5-10 free lessons, (whatever it 
takes to get you started) for any beginner 
buying. Contact 361-0270 or TARTAN 
office.
If you like to hear kittens purring, then
you need a purring li'l kitten. And if you 
rail 681-5122 I'll give you one.
PERSONALS
Dear Anna,
Yet another year is gone 
Yet another day wears on 
Darkness only leads to song,
And dreams of loving you.
Your smiling face compares to none, 
Laughing in the morning sun,
Spending lovely nights as one,
I live this life for you.
I love you, 
Carl
Sweet Schlags Plus One:
The evening of 10/29/73 we observed 
one of your clan in a streak in front of 
M.G. and another on way to the Hunt- 
Where were the rest of you?
Love and Kisses, 
Pam and Kay
ksteafinga 
Iona distance call worth
i^fha criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It’s stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine of up to $15,000
¦ Up to seven years in jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark.
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

THE T ART AN—Tuesday, NotfemfcAT. >3, Page 5
' Phone System
by Tom Kendig
Should C-MU convert its phone system 
to allow 24 hour direct dialing among all 
^campus phones, including dormitory 
phones?
The C-MU telephone office says the 
conversion to a Bell Centrex system would 
probably be too expensive. But a Bell 
representative suggests the monthly bill to 
the university for the system, would be less 
than $1,000 greate"r than it is now.
Meanwhile, the C-MU telephone office 
%is planning to add an extra 100 lines to the 
present system because only 11 are left. 
The current system can be enlarged to 
handle another 100 lines with a minimum 
of trouble and expense by changing the 
switching system for Mellon Institute, 
according to Nancy Kazmerski, head of the 
C-MU telephone office.
University extensions use three digit ^ numbers. Dialing “7” transfers calls to 
Mellon Institute and dialing “9” transfers 
calls outside the campus. The Mellon 
Institute transfer number could be changed 
to “91” and the outside transfer number to 
“90”. Then the system could handle 100 
new extensions in the 700’s.
After the 100 extensions in the 700’s 
are taken, the addition of more extensions 
^ becomes a major operation. Ms. Kazmerski 
explained one alternative would be ex­
panding the current three digit numbers to 
four digits. This would require adding more 
equipment to the present switchboard and 
modifying the current equipment. In most 
cases, instead of changing the numbers 
completely, a “2” or some other digit 
would be placed in front of the current 
extension number.
The other alternative, says Ms. 
Kazmerski, would be the complete 
revamping of the C-MU phone system with 
the installation of a Bell Telephone 
Centrex system.
The Centrex system would allow vir­
tually unlimited expansion, 24 hour auto­
matic service, automatic billing, direct long 
distance dialing from campus phones, and
* expansion of intracampus dialing to 
include personal phones in dormitory 
rooms.
"24 hour automatic service"
Centrex is a system installed by Bell 
that assigns a seven digit number to every 
extension. Callers from outside the campus 
would dial all seven numbers and be con­
nected automatically to the proper phone. 
A caller from within the campus system 
dials just the last five numbers. Any phone 
on the system can dial outside the 
university without contacting the 
university operator.
Centrex would replace almost all of the 
switchboard apparatus, leaving the two 
university operators only the task of giving 
out information. It would also mean 24 
hour service to all extensions instead of 
service that stops (for outgoing calls) at 9 
p.m. with Security taking over incoming 
calls. It would make billing easier because 
Bell computers will itemize the accounts. 
And toll calls could be made without the 
^ 30% surcharge on operator intercepted 
** calls.
Most important to students, Centrex 
would allow extension phones in dorm­
itory rooms. A student could contact a
Changing?
professor or any university office without 
going in person, and the university could 
contact any student on campus. Centrex 
phones would replace the phones that 
many students now pay to have installed.
The University of Pittsburgh has just 
this year instituted a Centrex system that 
includes the students. Bell representative 
Joseph Codoni said that for most schools, 
including Pitt, such an arrangement costs 
about $20 per semester per student phone, 
which is paid for through the room and 
board fee.
Problems, Anyone?
by Dave Bush
11827 distinct points are chosen on a 
circle and are labeled in a clockwise 
fashion: 0,1,2,3, ... ,11826. Starting at 
point 0, a straight line segment is drawn to 
its nearest clockwise neighbor (point 1). 
From point 1, another line segment is 
drawn to its closest clockwise neighbor 
(point 2). This process is repeated as many 
times as possible, according to the 
following restrictions:
1) The same line segment may not be 
drawn twice.
2) No line segment may cross a pre­
viously drawn line segment.
3) The second endpoint must be the 
first endpoint’s closest clockwise neighbor 
which satisfies the above conditions.
4) This second endpoint becomes the 
first endpoint for the next line segment 
drawn.
Name the two endpoints of the last line 
segment drawn.*****By way |ast pr0blern sure 
was interesting, wasn’t it? The answer to 
the last problem has been postponed until I 
figure it out.,
"would allow extension 
phones in dormitory rooms"
The school has investigated the 
feasibility of changing to Centrex several 
times in the past and has always found it 
too expensive, according to Ms. Kazmerski. 
At present, a line costs $2.15 per month. 
Under Centrex, the first 100 lines would 
cost $10.60 per month and the next 496 
would cost $6.80 per month.
But Bell representative Codoni said that 
a study done at the beginning of 1973 
showed the university spent an average of 
$14,574 per month including hardware and 
Mellon Institute costs. A Bell Centrex 
proposal would have cost $15,264 per 
month.
Both Ms. Kazmerski and Mr. Codoni 
pointed out that the best time to make a 
switch to Centrex would be when C-MU 
needs to make other systems changes like 
adding another 100 lines or making the 
major change from three digit extensions 
to four digit extensions.
ONE FREE COPY OF RELEASE TO ANYONE WITH 
A FOUR ANYWHERE ON THE FACE OF THEIR ID CARD.
PLEASE BRING YOUR ID CARD TO THE
INFORMATION DESK AT SKIBO 
FOR YOUR FREE COPY
rele<i/e
THE EASIEST WAY TO FIND SOME FUN
Dear Akadama MamaMama’s Love Potions.
Dear Akadama Mama:
Have you any interest in 
Womens Lib?
President, Showgirls’ Lib, 
Las Vegas
Dear Ms. President:
I’m more interested in Mama’s 
Lib and Mama feels if you do right 
by your Daddy, he’ll do right by you. 
Now my Daddy, I treat him right. 
When he comes dragging home at 
night I fluff up his ego. Slip off his 
shoes. Hand him his pipe. And head 
for the Akadama wine. Forget those 
tooty-fruity wines. They’re for boys, 
not for my Old Man. So I get out my 
Akadama recipe card and mix him 
one of my love potions. You’d be sur­
prised how fine a Saturday can be 
when you start it off with Akadama 
Red and orange juice. And the sec­
ond best way I know to end the day 
is with Akadama Red and cham­
pagne. So if you want my advice, Ms.
Imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles, California
President, just keep passing that 
Akadama. Take it from Mama. 
FAME & FORTUNATE.
Lately a lot of Akadama fans 
have been sending me their favorite 
recipes. Fortunately there’s enough 
roomleft in this week s column to 
pass some of them on 
to you.
Akadama Red and 
bitter lemon tonic. 
Akadama Red with 
apple juice. 
Akadama Red 
with ginger ale. 
Akadama Red 
and tonic water.
Akadama Red 
with cream soda.
Akadama Red 
and lemonade.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday. November 13, 1973
ILLEGAL SCHOLARSHIP: NOBODY KNEW
continued from page 1
wasn’t taken for over a month afterward. 
“The first time it came up in any official 
way was at the C-MAP Advisory Council 
Meeting, and informally a few weeks 
before that,” explained Johnson. That 
meeting took place on October 15.
After the Advisory Council Meeting, 
C-MAP discussed the matter with Carter’s 
parents. The Athletic Department was told 
not to contact the parents, according to 
head Basketball Coach Rudy Yaksich.
Carter’s parents decided that a first 
semester emphasis on academics would be 
the best policy for the moment, although 
they want to see him play ball second 
semester if all goes well. As for the C-MAP 
staff, Johnson said, “If the first semester 
goes well academically, and he still wants 
to play basketball, there’s no problem with 
that. But it ought to be clear that the 
C-MAP program is not about basketball.”
Photo by Frank Stein 
Dr. Norman Johnson, C-MAP Director.
Even if C-MAP allows Carter to play ball 
the second semester, there is still no agree­
ment on how to restore his eligibility. The 
scholarship violates PAC rules because it 
was granted independently of the 
University’s Financial Aid Office, and thus 
exceeds the amount that Financial Aid said 
he should be given.
Nobody Knew About Scholarship
C-MAP sources still didn’t know how 
the illegal scholarship came about on 
November first, when the TARTAN called 
to check some facts. Apparently only one 
administrator was involved in granting it.
“The mistake I made was in not putting 
it in writing,” said Louis Overstreet, who 
resigned as Director of Student Affairs for 
C-MAP late last summer. When Overstreet 
left, he took his knowledge of the Carter 
scholarship with him: “When all of this 
came up I was on the West Coast. If I could 
have presented it to them it might have 
smoothed things over.”
Overstreet explained that a few room 
and board scholarships are given every year
by C-MAP, mainly to aid students whom 
the high costs of a CMU education might 
deter from coming here. This year C-MAP 
gave four such scholarships, two to upper­
classmen and two to freshman. Carter was 
the only student athlete to receive one.
Overstreet says he knew when he made 
plans for the scholarship that it would 
violate PAC rules, which state that no 
Varsity Athlete can receive aid in excess of
¦ that determined by the university’s 
Financial Aid Office. “So we decided to 
work out a system where he could pay the 
money back--it would be an advanced loan, 
so to speak. We were planning on working 
out the mechanics of it after he got here. 
We were thinking along the lines of work 
for C-MAP, possibly as a counselor in the 
August Program.”
Overstreet also said he had set up the 
scholarship on a semester by semester 
basis, so that “even if we couldn’t clear it 
. with the PAC, he would only be ineligible 
for one semester.” He added, “Clyde 
1 himself wasn’t involved. It was between 
, myself and his parents.”
Subsequent efforts to solve the problem 
took place, then, without anyone knowing 
about Mr. Overstreet’s original plans. The 
scholarship is still there. It has to be repaid 
in some fashion in order for eligibility to 
be reinstated. But the Athletic Department 
and various C-MAP sources disagree on 
exactly how that can be done.
“We’ve suggested alternatives,” Rudy 
Yaksich, head Basketball Coach, told the 
TARTAN. “Lending him money for the 
school year would be one way, with the 
stipulation that he pay it back this 
summer. Or we could get him a job to help 
pay it back. The burden shouldn’t be on 
his parents.”
He adds, “I’d like to see this resolved in 
the way that he’s permitted to play 
basketball. He’s probably one of the best 
big men we’ve recruited, in terms of all- 
around ability. If the financial assistance 
given to him by C-MAP is against the regu­
lation of our Conference the University or 
some Department thereof should find some 
means for this young man to pay this 
money back without hinderance to him or 
to his family. I hope all this turns out all 
right. He’s a hell of a basketball player.” 
“There are three alternatives as I see it,” 
says Marion Oliver, Associate Director of 
C-MAP. “His parents could pick up the 
additional cost. But if they could the 
money wouldn’t have been given in the 
first place. Secondly, he could not play 
ball, which is crazy, because it’s obviously 
important to him. The third would be to 
give him money in the form of a job, which 
is the solution I prefer.”
As Johnson sees it, “There’s only one 
possible thing, and it has nothing to do 
with the project changing its mind about
the assistance given Clyde to come to this school. If he and his family choose to
INTER-CAMPUS GRADUATE SOCIAL 
Saturday, Nov. 17, 9 p.m.
Informal atmosphere, refreshments 
Location: Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, Y-IKC
NEW HILLEL HAPPENINGS AT:
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES
Sunday, Nov. 18, 7:30 p.m.
Speaker: Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, 
B’nai B’rith Hillel Jewish University
Center
Topic: The Jewish Peopie-a Nation or a Religion? 
Location: Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, Y-IKC
315 S. Belief »Id Ave. (Across from Heinz Chapel) 
621-S875
reject that assistance, and that will help 
them get a favorable ruling, that’s their 
decision.”
Cooperation Failed
Carter was recruited, along with two 
classmates, all from Central High School in 
Philadelphia, by Jeff Hollis, Assistant 
Basketball Coach and former member of 
the C-MAP staff.The fact that Carter was recruited at all 
reflects both CMlTs new policy of up-
University doesn’t have a rule whereby you 
need a certain QPA to play Varsity sports. 
In this case there was no co-operation at 
all. They should probably even have money 
in the budget so that when they get a guy 
who’s marginal, they can get him help with his bonk-« ”
Oliver suggests: “The Academic help is 
available. What we need to do more is talk 
with people in the athletic department. We 
should give academic reports to coaches 
periodically so they know where their team 
members stand. Or they could let us know
Rudy Yaksich, head basketball coach.Photo by Frank Stein
grading sports, and the desire of at least 
one faction of C-MAP to recruit some 
student athletes. “This is the first year 
we’ve helped the Athletic Department in 
recruiting,” Oliver told the TARTAN. 
“And the stipulation was that they were 
good academically.”
“We felt that if we could recruit some 
student athletes, it would be a plus for the 
program,” said Overstreet.
But both Yaksich and Oliver noted a 
lack of communication between the 
Athletic Department and C-MAP.
Concerning the Carter case, Yaksich 
commented, “The University has left it up 
to C-MAP, since it was their scholarship, 
and C-MAP’s action was to contact the 
parents and see what they wanted to do. 
We’ve just had a vagueness from C-MAP 
concerning this whole thing,” he added, 
stating that he had heard very little during 
the course of C-MAP*s talking with the 
parents. e-MAP's Johnson, though, denied 
that the University gave the matter to 
C-MAP to handle. “Nobody even asked us 
to take part,” he said.
In another matter, Oliver complained 
that one student athlete is still playing 
football even though he is on academic 
probation: “That doesn’t make sense to 
me. I can’t understand why a coach would 
allow a student to do that, or why the
CARNEGIE MELLON 
TRAVEL OFFICE 
Now Located
SKIBO 40«
who’s on the team, and who’s a minority 
student, so we could find the information 
on him. We could co-operate like that.”
One more incident illustrates the rift 
between C-MAP and athletics. During this 
year’s August program, a student violated a 
C-MAP rule which prohibits males from 
being in women’s dorm rooms. So C-MAP 
made a “deal” with him that he wouldn’t 
play basketball.
“The thing dished out to him was not 
the right disciplinary action,” said Oliver. 
“The guy’s worked hard and he’s done the 
things we expected academically. So we 
should given him some encouragement.” 
Through Oliver’s efforts, the decision has 
been reversed.
How will C-MAP handle athletics in the 
future?
“What we try to do is discipline any­
thing which will interfere with academics. 
When it comes to making a decision 
between playing sports and academics, we 
encourage him to do his books. We’re not 
anti-sports. We’re just pro-academics. 
That’s the only way to put it,” says Oliver.
“(The Carter affair) didn’t bother me 
personally, and it didn’t bother the project 
as a whole. As a project, our first concern 
is that people graduate from this University 
in its strengths-in his case, engineering,” 
says Johnson.
Open Daily
1 p.m. - 5 p.
MID. YEAR 
GRADUATES
The Navy needs pilots and flight 
officers. Starting salary after 4 months 
training is $10,000 plus. Free medical 
and dental benefits. Perfect vision not 
required. For more information, call 
644-5889 or 644-5897.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 13, 1973—Page 7
Boycott Petitions at C-MULetters:
continued from page 2 * •
Editor:
I am writing to protest one of the most 
glaring examples of bad judgement and 
poor taste in reporting (I hesitate to use 
the word) that I have ever seen. The 
“Events” column of the TARTAN’s Octo­
ber 30 issue contained an announcement 
for the National Theatre of the Deaf which 
I found offensive and obnoxious. For any­
one who missed it, it read as follows:
“The National Theatre of the Deaf will 
be appearing at the Playhouse on No­
vember 5 for one performance (then back 
to the asylum). You can get your rocks off 
yelling at this one. For information call 
621-4445. Eh, come again?”
I hope the writer was attempting merely 
to add some interest or “humor” to his 
material, however, he succeeded only in 
showing his own insensitivity and irrespon­
sibility. Of course, it is always valuable to 
be able to laugh at ourselves and our prob­
lems, but this does not strike me at all as a 
compassionate attempt to derive pleasure 
from an unfortunate situation. It seems 
much more like the crude snickering of a 
small child who doesn’t understand 
something and is frightened by it.
If this is the TARTAN’s idea of jour­
nalistic wit, I would like to request that 
you confine it to editorials and by-lines in 
the future, so that those of us who are only 
interested in what’s going on won’t have to 
be exposed to it.
Wendy Univer
Editor:
So the academic buildings are disgust­
ingly dirty and windows never get washed. 
The reason is that the administration, 
caught in that all too familiar financial 
squeeze, opted to cut back on maintanance 
and cleaning services rather than academic 
services. G. Sij recommends (Letters, Nov. 
6) that alumni gifts be withheld until the 
university can clean its house. The prob­
able result of such a solution would be that 
all classes would be taught by unpaid grad 
students in dirty classrooms since the 
school could afford even less than before. I 
suggest that G. Sij transfer to a spotless 
community college. I would rather get a 
quality education amidst dirt and grime for 
the lowest possible cost. If alumni are con­
cerned with the dirty campus, I recom­
mend that they contribute more, not less, 
to CMU.
In your editorial last week, you com­
mented on “Nick, the Greek bartender 
with black slicked-back hair. . .” How true. 
All Greeks have black hair and most of 
them are greasy at that. For next week’s 
ethnic riff, may we suggest examining the 
Polish millworker, the Chinese laundryman 
or Myron the banker. Their physical char­
acteristics are left to your discretion. Good 
luck, and we hope you get struck by 
lightning.
James A. Malanos Alex J. Trilivas 
(I sincerely apologize if it seemed that I was making a disparaging ethnic remark Nick, who happens to be Greek, has black, slicked-back hair. It is as much a part of his character as the pipe he smokes and the way he says “fuck” and “shit”. Besides, I love Nick.-the editor)
by Kevin Turcotte
Petitions calling for the boycott of let­
tuce and grapes are now circulating on the 
C-MU campus. The petitions call for Food 
Services to stop buying non-United Farm­
worker (UFW) lettuce and grapes, replacing 
them with the available substitutes.
The petitions -are being circulated by a 
fledgling organization advertised as the 
C-MU Support Committee for the Farm­
workers, which meets Monday nights in 
Skibo. They are not yet recognized by 
Student Senate.
The committee met on November 5 to 
discuss strategy of petitioning. A guest 
speaker, Sr. Rodriguez, told of the prob­
lems of the Farmworkers. (Sr. Rodriguez is
Cesar Chavez to the Pittsburgh area to 
organize the boycott.) These problems , 
according to Sr. Rodriguez, include being 
sprayed by pesticides while workfng 
(resulting in over 800 farmworker deaths a 
. year), lack of sanitation facilities, inad­
equate wages and harassment by growers. 
If the Farmworkers refuse to submit to 
these conditions and strike instead, they 
are sometimes beaten. Four farmworker 
deaths have allegedly resulted from this.
Gary Cappy, a Pittsburgh organizer, had 
this to say about the boycott, “The 
boycott of lettuce doesn’t mean that 
students won’t have lettuce to eat, it just 
means that they will be eating UFW let-
a farmworker himself and was sent bv tuce.”
fARfll IADOR TEACH-10
find out about what historians have called 
“the most important movement in the U.S.
today.”
- films 
6*V DISCUSSION GROUPS
NOV. 20th, 3-6pm.
PITT STUDENT UNION
America 
has the best 
advertised drug 
problem in the 
world.
The most popular headache remedies include Eicedrm. Empirin. 
Anacm, Cope. Vanquish. Bufferm. and Bayer But it you 
knew the truth, tOiose pills might get pretty hard to swallow 
THE COMBINATION DRUGS
According to a recent American Medical Association drug 
report, combinations ol analgesics (pain relieveis) are 
"irrational" and ' not recommendedThat means remedies 
like Excedrin. Empirin and Vanquish 
BUFFERED PREPARATIONS
That same report could find no sound basis" for taking 
remedies like Butlerm instead ot plain aspirin 
ASPIRIN AND CAFFEINE
It also lound simple aspirin plus caffeine, which is what Anacm 
is. does no more tor your headache than plain aspirin 
BAYER VS BRAND X
At tor plain aspirin, there is rto persuasive scientific evidence 
Bayer Aspirin is more effective at relieving headache 
than any other brand It may differ from olher brands but that 
doesn't mean it works better 
SAVE ON HEADACHES
The maior brand remedies cost up to Noo times more than 
ordinary aspirin: Partly because you have to pay lor the 
advertising that gels you to buy them So neit time you buy 
something tor your head, use your head Buy the least 
etpensive plain aspirin you can find
Medical Committee tor Hum«» Rights 710 Sou’h M«irshf.fid Chicago. Illinois 60612
Prepared by Th« St«fn Concern
LAST MEETING OF
PROGRAMMING FUND
THIS SEMESTER
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14 
7:30pm Room 11
All organizations wishing funding 
for Spring ’T4 must lie there. 
Applications at Skibo lofo. Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Tefo i-g.m tgIpgIvg,aweEt
"couul dares ”yaJh nTrJsJuc
continued from page 1
provide bike racks in the basement and 
lobby areas of all residence halls and 
classroom buildings.
He noted, however, that the placement 
of bikes in the lobby areas of buildings is 
contrary to a university policy which 
prohibits the vehicles from being kept 
inside university structures. He com­
mented, “I would be willing to consider an 
attempt to change the university policy if I 
am approached on the matter.”
Diane S. Castelli, housing manager, says 
she is in favor of having racks installed in 
the lobby of Morewood Gardens. The area 
being considered is along ¿he wall adjacent 
to the mail boxes in C Tower. She said, 
“We have made this proposal to WDC and 
now it is their decision whether or not to 
act on it.”
At the November 5 meeting, WDC 
decided not to act on the proposal, but 
rather to refer the matter back to the floor 
residents and then make a decision based 
on the residents’ opinions. Several WDC 
representatives indicated that women who 
did not own bikes opposed the installation 
because it might create “a lot of dirt” in 
the winter months. However, one repre­
sentative noted, “People with bikes are 
really for the idea.”
Although most of the university 
officials questioned believe that students 
should have the option of storing their 
bikes indoors, all agree that bicycles should 
be confined to the storage areas and should 
not be permitted in other areas of the 
buildings like dormitory rooms and
New Comet 
Kohoutek 
to light up
Christmas
On Christmas Eve this year, the bright­
est comet of the century, Comet Kohou­
tek, will swing by our sun as part of a 
50,000 year-long revolution through the 
universe. Astronomer Charles T. Kowal 
reports in the November Science Digest 
that Comet Kohoutek is expected to 
exceed even Hailey’s comet in brightness 
and may be visible during daylight hours. 
As it makes its pass by the sun, scientists 
will be studying it from planes, satellites, 
space probes and from Skylab to attempt 
to solve the mystery of what a comet is 
made of and where it originates.
lounges. Van Riper explained: “Bike
storage in dormitory rooms could be a 
safety hazard. If you were on the elevatoi 
with a bike and the cab stopped suddenly 
and you hit your head on the handlebars: 
that would be a dangerous situation.”
Diane Castelli also feels that bicycles 
should be confined to the lobby areas. She 
believes there is no added security in 
storing bikes in dormitory rooms. “We 
have ample space in the basement and 
lobby. There is no need for bikes to be 
stored in students’ rooms.”
For now, Security advises students to 
use the outdoor racks along with special
WORLD PUN WEEK-USA
NOVEMBER 11-18
A SPECIAL WEEK DESIGNED TC 
INFORM PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ABOUT
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION
AS TAUGHT BY MAHARISHI 
MAHESH 
YOGI
¿AHARISMI MAi<> SH VOC.i
-PROVIDES DEEP REST AND RELAXATION 
—INCREASES MENTAL ALERTNESS 
-CAN BE EASILY LEARNED BY EVERYONE
FREE INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 8PM 
CMU, SKIBO HALL, THE WHERRETT ROOM
STUDENTS’ INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION' SOCIETY
P.O. BOX 10238 PITTSBURGH, PA. 15232 
(412) 362-8823
Photo by Brain Smith
chains
Van Riper attended a conference of 
security directors at Mt. Pleasant College 
last June where one of the main topics was 
the increase in the number of bicycles on 
college campuses. He said they discussed 
deterrents to bike theft, including the use 
of specially constructed bike racks like 
those which have recently been installed 
outside of Morewood Gardens and Doherty 
and Baker Halls. Van Riper said, “The 
racks provide the greatest security possible 
when used with the specially forged bicycle 
chain recommended at the conference.” 
The special chains are available in the 
C-MU bookstore.
The birds, animals & flowers are dying to tell us... “Give a hoot, don’t pollute!’
Join Nlbodsy OwTs fight against polhitjon.Ttxlay.
REICH/FITo
BANK'S
CN
Cruise on up to Reich Frank’s 
all new TOP DECK and move 
out in clothes designed for the 
guy with “Cruisin’ to Do” ... 
in baggies ... baseball shirts 
. . . bowties . .. and belts. . . . 
It’s the one place that puts it 
all together for you.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—TuesdaV', Novembei^^f^7Ì-,Page
M'y-
Sp>£$SM Wmmï
M-Æ
continued from page 1
goes as follows: It was the afternoon of the 
last day of the festival. Mogush had rented 
space for one day. Several artists and 
festival personnel came to her office and 
pointed out the content of tfte work. She 
had previously assumed it was a painting of 
'a flag which would have been perfectly all 
right; Mogush’s application to the festival 
never mentioned using cloth or the actual 
flag. She remembers that .the flag even 
contained ganets for the purpose of 
suspending it.
In response to Mogush’s accusation that 
Ms. Widdoes felt it would offend patrons 
of the festival, she answered, “It was a pure
1 legal policy and as the festival leases 
Gateway Center, we must uphold laws. I 
really thought he understood this was not 
some arbitrary opinion. It was not my 
opinion or anybody else’s.”
Ms. Widdoes recalls Mogush asking 
where he could move the work. She says 
she warned him that the police would 
enforce the law.
Ms. Widdoes declared that if it hadn’t 
been an actual flag, nothing would have 
happened. “Artists make all kinds of moral 
statements in works of art. If we censored 
them, we wouldn’t have anything inter­
esting.” The Festival has not been 
requested to testify in court.
ACLU Assistance Rejected
Mogush’s trial is scheduled for 
November 15, but, being a jury trial, may 
take a few days to get underway. Mogush 
could receive a maximum possible penalty 
of one year in prison, one thousand dollars,
or both. “I am pretty confident that I’ll be 
free because I have a strong case,” Mogush 
says. There is a clause in U.S. Statute 
which would justify a charge of flag 
desecration if it were proved to be a 
patriotic or political demonstration. But 
Mogush contends he was using artistic 
talents to convey a message.
The Greater Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union offered to 
defend Mogush. “Flag desecration is no 
crime at all,” says Charles Robb, executive 
director of the Pittsburgh Chapter. And an 
ACLU statement comments: “It appears to 
ACLU that this directly involves an 
individual’s right to publically protest an 
action of government with which he 
disagrees.”
But Mogush’s lawyer, John Arch, did 
not agree to let the ACLU enter the case. 
Mr. Robb conjectured the reason is the 
ACLU’s stand favoring abortion. “When 
the case goes to trial they might not want 
this affiliation because it might not help 
their side.”
Mr. Arch confirmed this, repeating that 
the ACLU has strongly supported 
abortions. He also said, “Maybe it would 
be better to bring them in to educate them 
on what the issue is.”
Like Mogush, Arch is optimistic about 
the case’s outcome. He promises to appeal 
the case if Mogush is convicted. Arch hopes 
to bring in witnesses for the defense, 
including a woman who would explain her 
experiences in German concentration 
camps during World War II and an artist 
who would testify that Mogush’s design is a 
wofc of art.
To justify the legality of using a real flag 
in a work of art, Arch cited the Iwo Jima 
Memorial in Washington D.C. The National 
Monument for World War II shows the 
marines lifting an actual flag depicting the 
capturing of Mt. Surabachi.
Views on Abortion
Mogush wants to communicate his 
position to the public. He feels C-MU 
students should understand the activities of 
the Scaife and Mellon families. He cites 
these incidents: Scaife’s involvement with 
funding for Planned Parenthood’s first 
abortion clinics in New York City and in 
Pittsburgh. A representative of Scaife and 
Mellon allegedly sent a team from Pitts­
burgh to the Florence Crittenton Home for 
Unwed Mothers in Boston to study 
possibilities for converting the first floor 
into an abortion facility.
Mogush pleads, “I call upon the Scaife 
and Mellon families to repudiate this 
obvious violation of Human Rights”. He 
charges that the Rockefeller’s strong 
promotion of contraceptive technology is 
coupled with financial interests in 
pharmaceutical firms selling such devices.
Within Pittsburgh, Mogush claims Magee 
and West Penn Hospitals have aborted 
babies alive and sent them to the labor­
atory. He alleged that the Pitt Medical 
School in conjunction with Magee Hospital 
has operated on living, breathing babies.
Arch also complains about abortion 
activity in Pittsburgh. Comparing the 
ratio of abortions to live births in Pitts­
burgh, he cites an arficle from ftie Post-
Gazette of Monday, October 29, pointing 
to 10,000 abortions performed in a year at 
the downtown abortion clinic, McGee 
Hospital, and West Penn Hospital. He 
relates this figure to 58,000 live births 
recorded by the Pennsylvania Bureau of 
Live Statistics, noting abortions occur 
twice as often as births. “This gives you 
pause for thought to what has happened-”
The Tartan asked Ms. Rachel Berg, the 
director of the Reproductive Counseling 
Institute at West Penn Hospital to 
comment on Mogush’s statements. Upon 
seeing the picture of aborted babies 
between 18 and 24 weeks (appears on blue 
part of flag) she commented, “These 
pictures are from Canada and are used in 
every anti-abortion movement. There is 
only one set of pictures shown throughout 
the country and there is nothing else like 
them.” She added that these photographs 
could have been set up. According to Ms. 
Berg, West Penn and McGee each do 1500 
abortions a year, not the 10,000 Arch 
claims. She says that the demand has been 
much greater and many women previously 
went for help to Washington D.C. and New 
York, but that more women are now 
referred to the abortion clinic downtown, 
which is capable of performing five to six 
hundred abortions in a month. Sources 
from the clinic report they are working 
close to capacity and the need is greater 
than West Penn or McGee ever imagined.
In reply to Mogush’s accusation of West 
Penn killing live babies, she questioned, 
“How can you do experiments on living 
fetuses when you don’t have any in 
existence?’*'1
Tuesday Novembel|f3 and Wednesday Nov 
Pollind PlaceHtu-
Fine Art:Wi>:
H&SS and all others
Stars and Stripes—Forever?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 13, 1973!
REMINDER
Student Government polls are 
open today and tomorrow, 
November 13 and 14, from 9 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Graduates in all majors should 
vote in Doherty Hall, CFA under­
graduates in the Fine Arts lobby, 
H&SS majors in Baker Hall, and 
MIS/CIT undergraduates, in Doherty 
Hall. Poll attendants will answer 
questions on where to vote and 
which constituency to vote in.
Senate 
News Briefs
by Tom Lang
Senate voted down a budget allocation 
of $574.00 for the Young Socialist Alli­
ance which had been approved by the fi­
nance committee.
Senate re-established its opposition to 
the check cashing charge.
The Activities Board (AB) reported that 
the Frank Zappa concert grossed 
$14,700.00, making it the largest and most 
successful concert held at CMU. Ira Picker, 
head of the AB, also announced that the 
last meeting for the Program Fund will be 
held on Wednesday, November 14th at 
7:30 pm. He further stated that this year 
CMU has an agreement with Pitt whereby 
each university grants the other a $1.00 
discount on concert prices. A free concert 
scheduled by CMU and Pitt will feature 
Fleetwood Mac at the Syria Mosque on 
January 19th.
In new business, a motion was passed 
which designated a committee to examine 
the possibilities of a ‘.‘usage fee” which 
would be added to the tuition bill and 
provide for increasing service costs to the 
university, such as the check cashing fee.
It was also moved that the rules com­
mittee should investigate the possibility of 
changing thé rules governing Senate-funded 
student activities to include graduate stu­
dents.
ILELGIAS
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 .% (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
POWER SHORTAGE 
IN THE U.S.?
The Navy needs pilots and flight 
officers. Starting salary afte* 4 
months training is $10,00(Tplus. 
Free medical and dental benefits. 
Perfect vision not required^For 
more information, call 644-5889 
or,644-5897.
BV SHlRLEV Vfé—»
U/UftT ve mbr1 r;ACRA^ì\
DIRECT FROM MADISON SQUARE GARDEN 
Aaron BanksORIENTAL WORLD OF SELF DEFENSE
(THE MASTERS IN ACTION)
STYLE
Karate 
Kung Fu 
Fighting Bouts 
Tai Chi Chuan 
Aikido 
Judo 
Jiu-Jitsu 
Aido-Kindo
WEAPONS
Nunchaku
Sai
Bo
Swords
Star
Ni-J'tsu
BREAKING
Ice
Wood
Brick
Stone
Cinder Block
8 PMSYRIA MOSQUE - NOV. 23
10%Discount to all groups
20 and over Pat Dicesare — Rich Engler Prod.Tickets: $5 - Advance 
$6 - At Door
to
tartan•u
NEWS FEATURES SPORTS 
EOTEMMNMENT LAVOUT 
PH0T06RAPHY— JOIH US
/OC)
Oo — 3 cn , ooCM K3
Pk
Ss
O
T3cr•<

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 13, 1973-Page 11
by Mark Evan Chimsky
“My lips move. . . Perhaps the fact that 
they move is more significant... than the 
words which come through them. You 
must bear that. . . possibility. . . in mind.”
The gestures are the things to watch in 
Harold Pinter’s “The Homecoming.” The 
play, which was sparked by a subtly bril­
liant fire has been translated with keen 
accuracy to the screen, as Ely Landau’s 
first American Film Theatre presentation.
The story-line seems simple. Teddy 
brings Ruth, his wife of six years, home to 
meet the family. It is her first visit. But, 
unlike Teddy, she is invited to overstay her 
welcome and she does remain, the only 
woman in a household of men. The condi­
tions which attract her are presumptuous 
and profitable. She is allowed to stay as 
long as she caters to the sexual needs of her 
husband’s relatives, as well as other outside 
clientele. With a cool detatchment, Ruth 
agrees to the terms. She soon orders the 
entire household; suddenly, all the terms to 
be met are her terms. Like a Queen Bee, 
she begins to possess this exclusively male
lest. With Teddy gone, Ruth is left inde­
pendent, in full control-her homecoming 
accomplished.
The oft-asked, almost cliched question 
concerning every Pinter play is “What does 
it all mean?” Since Harold will never tell, 
we’re free to lean on our own individual 
speculations. I think it important that we 
keep in mind the above quote from “The 
Homecoming.” Actions matter here. By 
the end of the film, Ruth is comfortably 
seated in the tattered throne-like chair of 
Max, the original superior of the house. 
Max kneels beside Ruth and addresses her. 
“Kiss me,” he says; these final, desperate 
words are not so much a command as they 
are a plea.
Through language, movement, and even 
the silences, I think Pinter is articulating 
Woman’s insidious and powerful domina­
tion over Man. Ruth enters demurely, and 
after being the target of advances from 
Teddy’s brothers, learns to master the men 
at their own game. They suggest to her the 
idea of a whore’s existance, but she is the 
one who says “yes”, who determines the 
exact nature of her life-style, specifying the 
allowance and luxuries she finds prerequi­
site to such a venture. Pawns now, the men 
must answer to her. Woman as earth- 
mother-whore wins out.
Peter Hall has directed this film with a 
sheer intensity and knowledge that contri­
bute to “The Homecoming’s” ultimate suc­
cess. The cast, remarkable in its ensemble 
work, forms a human testament to fine 
film-acting. With the role of Ruth, Vivien 
Merchant, (the real-life Mrs. Pinter) skillful­
ly shapes a woman who is bored by the 
arid landscape of a loveless marriage. The 
technical aspects of the film are all superb, 
especially the thoughtful costume design 
by Elizabeth Haffenden and Joan Bridge.
Such works as “The Homecoming,” “A 
Delicate Balance,” and “Butley” though 
major critical successes in the theatre, 
would probably not have met with the 
same response on a general commercial 
film level. Thanks to Ely Landau and his 
American Film Theatre, people all over the 
country now have the opportunity to see 
great actors participate in this perfect 
marriage of cinema and theatre, performing 
eight of the most significant plays of the 
last few decades.
The films play limited engagements; 
(every month, one film is shown four 
consecutive times, on a Monday and a 
Tuesday, and that is all). For some 
distressing reason, Pittsburgh is living up to 
its stereotype as a “beer and pretzel town” 
and not buying the AFT subscriptions with 
any enthusiasm. I strongly urge you, if you 
have not already done so, to indulge in one 
of life’s small, attainable pleasures, The 
American Film Theatre Series. Katherine 
Hepburn awaits you in “A Delicate 
Balance” on November 12 and 13.
by Susan N. Klein
Just a little news about some Carnegie- 
Mellon graduates who are doing profession­
al theatre work in New York this season, 
Carnegie-Mellon is certainly well-repre­
sented. Probably the most prolific name 
from Carnegie-Mellon is that of Stephen 
Schwartz, who has two shows currently 
running. Godspell has been runnnng longer 
than any other current off-Broadway show, 
except, of course, The Fantasticks. Pippin 
recently recouped its original investment 
because it was such a pleasantly low budget 
musical; from now on it’s all profit. I 
would imagine that Schwartz is working on 
something, if not merely producing 
records, which is like his hobby, if you can 
imagine that.
Incidentally, Pippin won a Tony award 
for Jules Fisher, the technical designer who 
also is a Carnegie-Mellon. Fisher is con­
stantly working, and is one of the most 
highly regarded men in the lighting and 
designing profession.
The newest off-Broadway hit, Moon- 
children was the brainchild of Stephen 
Steinlauf, who would have been a junior in 
technical design this year at Carnegie-Mel­
lon had he not given birth to this show. 
John Pasquin, who besides recently 
teaching at Carnegie-Mellon, is a graduate 
of the school, is the director of Moon­
children The designers of the current 
Moonchildren revival are Mary Warren and 
Bill Mathews, also direct from the hallowed 
halls of the Fine Arts building. And Emmet 
Walz, who we just saw as Winters in Tiger 
on Mainstage, is among the actors in 
Moonchildren.
Elias Rabb, who graduated back in the 
fifties, is the director of the suspense play 
by Ira Levin entitled Veronica’s Room. 
The play seems to be surviving, despite 
decidedly mixed critical opinion. Rabb is 
probably best known for his work with the 
A.P.A. Phoenix Repertory Company, both
as an actor and a director. Two seasons ago 
he directed Twelth Night at Lincoln 
Center, under the artistic direction of Jules 
Irving, way back when.
Rene Aubeijonois, the man Martin 
Gottfried called the finest actor in Ameri­
ca, is currently in rehearsal for Neil 
Simon’s latest hit. The play will be called 
The Good Doctor and not to be confused 
with Simon’s nickname, it is an evening of 
Simon adaptations of about fourteen plays 
and stories by Anton Checkov. Auber- 
jonois will be playing opposite Christopher 
Plummer, who as Checkov will serve as a 
sort of MC for the evening, and Rene will 
be doing several roles. The play is directed 
by the Joseph Papp discovery-wizard A.J. 
Antoon, and some music has been added 
by Peter Link, who among other things 
wrote Salvation, an off-Broadway hit of 
some years back. A phone call revealed a 
very hoarse but optimistic Rene. The hit 
opens November 27 in Doc Simon’s very 
own Eugene O’Neill Theatre, and will run 
forever. Rene’s contract runs only until 
June, and he has an aversion to long runs, 
so try to see it over Christmas or 
something.
Gene Feist, my oM^drama-teacher and a 
classmate of Ellis Rabb at Carnegie, is the 
producing director of The Roundabout 
Theatre company down on 26th Street in 
New York. The company is fast gaining 
prominence as one of the most formidable 
rep. companies in New York, performing 
mostly the classics of American and Mod­
em European Theatre. Feist’s current pro­
duction is the August Strindberg play The 
Father. Feist just loves Carnegie people to 
come down and say hello.
If you live in New York or if you plan 
to make a trip up there over Thanksgiving 
or Christmas, it might be nice to drop in on 
the work of some of the alumni. Aside 
from The Good Doctor, Moonchildren, and«. 
foronica’s Room, there’s not a whole lot 
worth anybody’s time in New York right
now. It might be fun to see Raisin, it’s 
always nice to see a hit. Mart Crowley’s 
new play is called A Breeze From the Gulf 
and it sounds like good American drama. 
Crowley wrote The Boys in the Band. 
Breeze is playing up on 74th Street, a very 
unlikely place. The New York Shakespeare 
Festival at Lincoln Center is bowing with 
Troilus and Cressida, which will eventually 
be in repertory with The Tempest and Cor- 
iolanus. Papp offers a special Newhouse 
Theatre Pass (it used to be called The 
Forum) to students, for only $9 for all 
three plays. All three are shown at some 
time during our vacations, so there’s no 
problem there. It’s worth it. Shakespeare is 
always worth it.
»Back here, Butley will be running at the 
Nixon all week, through the 17th, if you’d 
care for an evening of laughs and 
melancholia and downright good theatre.
Philip Musi 
supcrcuts
For Men & Women
1814 Murray Ave. Pittorg^U5217/
IheAstoundinglhreeMonJozzBockBand from Eng/ond 
Ihofs Been Knocking Everybody Bead in Concert 
Has o Brand New Album.
8th
NITES
m
Get It at Record Stores Everywhere.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-^Tuesday, Novenne T3. Î973
A clown named Kevin at the Circus.
drew
by Kevin C. Dreyer
The Circus is gone, the arena is empty 
and Silent, but wait. . . if you listen very 
carefully you can still hear the cheers, the 
gasps and the wild applause of the only 
group that can truly be called “children of 
all ages.” The Circus was here two 
weekends ago and I was fortunate enough 
to have the privilege of seeing it, as a 
matter of fact, I had that privilege twice. 
The Circus is indeed one of the few remain­
ing timeless events in the world of enter­
tainment. (The memory of the last time I 
saw the Circus; nine years ago, is as fresh as 
that of the one I saw just nine days ago.) 
And it is one of the only events that can 
truly be said to have universal appeal.
This is the second and final year of the 
102nd edition of “The Greatest Show On 
Earth” yet the costumes and performances 
have yet to lose their characteristic glitter 
and I doubt that they ever will now that 
they have been permanently etched in the 
minds and hearts of hundreds and thou­
sands of children in Pittsburgh and across 
the country.
The Ringling Brothers and Barnum & 
Bailey Circus has now been operating at 
least 103 years under the well deserved 
title of “The Greatest Show on Earth,” and 
there have been two units of this Circus 
operating since 1969, only two short years 
since owner and producer Irvin Field took 
over the reins of perhaps one of the most 
impressive ventures in show business. Be­
tween the two mammoth 30 car trains that 
carry the two units cross-country, the 
Circus will appear in 91 United States and 
Canadian cities this season alone. -
1 had the privilege of talking to ring­
master Tim Holst while 1 was at the Circus
Photo by Kevin Ureyer
and he let me in on some of the problems 
and thrills of touring with a Circus. Mr. 
Holst said that despite the problems of 
language and temper, the small living quar­
ters and the long hours, if touring is in 
your blood there is no place like the Cir­
cus. Mr. Holst, a graduate of the 1971 
Clown School, worked as a clown for a 
year before taking over the duties of ring­
master with the world’s largest Circus. 
Pittsburgh was to be Mr. Holst’s last per­
formance with the blue unit as he had been 
asked to replace the current ringmaster of 
the red unit. He said that he was glad to be 
leaving before the last two weeks of the 
show because, as he put it, “The air 
becomes virtually sticky with nostalgia.” 
This edition, though almost ready to 
retire, is a well put-together evening of 
entertainment. The polish and balance of 
the evening is due primarily to the expert 
control of director Richard Barstow to 
whom we also owe our thanks for the 
glittering energetic staging of the spectacles 
and finale. Mr. Barstow is the person ulti­
mately responsible for timing the numbers 
that occur simlutaneously in, above, and 
around the three large rings of the Circus. 
He also decides in what order the circus 
events will progress so as best to thrill his 
audience. Once Mr. Barstow finishes his 
complicated job it is up to performance 
director Charly Baumann, (who is also a 
very exciting tiger and horse trainer), to 
maintain the energy and pace set by Mr. 
Barstow. It is Mr. Baumann’s shrill whistle 
that keeps the performers on their toes, in
more ways than one.
The Circus itself was a gem to watch 
and even after seeing it twice I was unable 
to pay close attention to everything that 
was going on. Some of the more exciting 
acts included a number of energetic 
bare-back riders, trained horses, dogs, 
camels, bears, a llama, various sizes of 
elephants and, of course, the ever .present
The next performer at the International 
Poetry Forum at Carnegie Library will be 
Anthony Hecht, who will read from his 
works tomorrow, November 14, at 8:15 
p.m. Hecht won the Pulitzer Prize in 1967 
for his book, The Hard Hours. Student 
tickets, as usual, are $1.75 at the Big 
Department Stores and down in the Forum 
office in the library.
The next featured exhibit at the Velar 
Gallery in the GSIA building is Stan 
Canavan, starting today (Tuesday), and 
running through November 30. Canavan is 
a design junior.
Coming to Walt Harper’s Attic in Market 
Square for five days starting tonight will be 
Billy Taylor and his Trio. Billy is a jazz 
pianist who spent many years looking at 
David Frost’s back as the musical director 
for that TV show. Besides the night shows 
there will be a special Friday matinee at 
5:00. Call the Attic at 261-5083 for. 
reservations.
Also at Heinz Hall will be the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra doing its Pop Series 
opening cortcert, featuring PDQ Bach. 
Tickets for that event will be (perhaps 
appropriately) substantially cheaper.
Canned Heat, of Going Up the Country fame 
will play at Chatham College Chapel on Sat. 
eve.,8:00 Tickets at Mellon Center, Chatham
The Pittsburgh Opera will be doing Faust 
this Thursday and this Saturday, November
15 and 17. Lead singers will be Jerome 
Hines and Ellen Shade. This is Gounod’s 
Faust. Call Heinz Hall at 281-5000 for 
ticket information.
If you like the Movies, old movies, and 
you’re interested in the men who made 
them, the series you should be watching is 
called The Men Who Made The Movies, on 
WQED Sunday nights at 7:30, chronicling 
the careers of the great directors.
lions and tigers. The second night I went 
the lion act was particularly exciting as 
some of Pablo Noel’s pupils seemed to turn 
on him, but so expertly did he handle the 
situation that had I not seen the show 
before, I would not have thought that 
anything was amiss. Mr. Noel and his 
famous lions hail from Spain where they 
were appearing with the famous Fejio- 
Castilla Circus.
Mr. Noel describes his exciting presen­
tation in the following terms, “I try to 
present them to the audience as the danger­
ous jungle beasts they are-but, there’s 
always time to have a little fun!” Mr. Noel 
includes in his act such acrobatics as 
repeatedly kissing one of the animals and 
placing his head in the mouth of two of the 
largest of the lions. He also demonstrates 
his own style of wrestling by diving on a 
pile of his large cats and slapping them 
around, all in the interest of fun.
Charly Baumann’s presentation of his 
tigers is a totally different matter. This has 
a great deal to do with the nature of the 
beast. Mr. Baumann explains it like this,
“Lions travel in groups in the jungle, 
whereas tigers are basically loners. It’s very
natural for tigers to fight among
themselves. If I stepped out of the cage, 
there would be a free-for-all. And they 
don’t fool around. They go for the neck.”
Mr. Baumann’s presentation has an air 
of dignity about it and there appears to be 
a feeling of mutual respect between the 
animals and trainer. Mr. Baumann has
included in his act the standard leap
through the ring of fire, but with a new 
twist; this time it is two rings of fire and 
the tigers come from opposite directions.
In addition to the trained animals there 
are some very well-trained people. Among 
the more exciting of these troupes of 
excellently trained humans is the 
magnificent troupe of exquisite trapeze 
artistry, “The Flying Gaonas.” The Gaonas 
hail from sunny Mexico where all have 
been coached and trained by Victor Gaona, 
who is considered one of the greatest 
teachers of the art of the flying-trapeze in 
the world. The troupe performs in two
groups, consisting of one catcher and three 
flyers, one of whom performs over ring 1 
and the other over ring 3. The most 
exciting and dangerous feat the troupe 
performs is the triple somersault simultane­
ously over rings 1 and 3. The evening I saw 
them was particularly exciting as the group 
over ring 3 missed and seconds later the 
group over ring 1 connected with a 
beautiful triple thereby adding to the 
effect of the feat.
All in all 46 separate acts were 
presented in the exciting 3 hour per­
formance, not counting the novelty acts 
and all the clown acts. The one real novelty 
act was the presentation of the smallest 
man in the world, “Seven Inches Shorter 
Than P.T. Barnum’s Tom Thumb.” Among 
the other notable acts was the aerial ballet, 
a strong tumbling troupe, several excellent 
springboard troupes, and last (but only 
because they were the best), The Clowns.
The clowns were out in full force and 
what a delight they were. The program 
describes one set of routines in this 
glittering alliterative style: “Festival of Fre­
netic Funnymen Bearing Bountiful Bagsfull 
of Great New Glittering Gags, The World’s 
Largest, Craziest Clown Alley Arrives 
Again for an Insane Interlude, Unmatched 
for Merriment and Mayhem.” The clowns 
were indeed a particular delight. Although 
they were rather young the oldest perfor­
mer in the Circus turned out to be a 71 
year old clown. The clowns are perhaps the 
hardest working members of the Circus, 
serving not only as performers, but, to a 
certain extent, as grips, for the aerial ballet 
and the finale. But they are also the most 
remembered. As I returned home after the 
show, a little tired and very excited, all the 
little kids in the bus could talk about were 
the funny clowns.
The Circus is indeed gone. The arena is 
very empty and deathly quiet, but the dx- 
citement and joy of the Circus lives on in 
those little kids talking about “the funny 
clowns” and in old fools like myself who 
dream of becoming a clown and who prob­
ably will never get any closer to the Circus 
than the front row.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-^Tuesday, November 13; 1978—Page 13
Mthe big bite
^ JL JL A. "coc u
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
A Hansom cab is a buggy with an old 
horse attached that takes people for rides 
at $20 an hour. And there was a hansom 
cab one day whose horse got loose and he 
was very frightened cause of all the car 
noises in the street and he started running 
down the avenue. He started at 61st St. 
and Fifth Avenue and there was a lot of 
honking so he was going pretty fast. In 
fact, he was going faster than the taxis, 
which they resented. The taxis began to 
race the horse. The cabbies who are 
notorious small time gamblers, were 
screaming bets back and forth from their 
windows as to where the horse would stop 
or which one of them would finally beat 
the horse out. Finally in the area of 23rd 
Street some skinny little man grabs t le 
horse’s head and jabs him with his elb( w 
and the horse sits down on the sidewalk 
and gets calm and there is a lot of hissing 
and booing coming from the taxis. All bets 
cancelled.
In East Liberty there is an all night 
eating place-“The Buttery” that is next 
door to a Big Yellow Taxi station. It is 
frequented by the cab drivers who spend 
time at 5:30 a.m. discussing nothing but 
the numbers racket and the bets they are 
planning. This man sitting at the counter 
whose feet don’t reach the floor is arguing 
with a man whose stomach does, that the 
number he’s picked out for today is all 
wrong and he proceeds to give an almost 
scientific argument to back his case. The 
Buttery is a division of White Tower and 
the clientele is generally taxi. They have a 
limited menu with unreasonably high 
prices for their goods. Two eggs and toast 
cost $.70 and they were too buttery. (On 
the menu it. is stressed that everything is 
cooked with butter so I was pre-warned.) I 
think the cornflakes were $.30. As far as 
breakfast goes, the cheapest and best bet 
around is Skibo (which doesn’t open until 
7:30). The Buttery is far from campus but 
it’s a good place to go if you’ve pulled an 
all nighter and you’re trying to avoid sleep 
because it takes around a half hour to walk 
each way and they’ll let you sit and count 
cab drivers and freight trains as long as you 
like.
Also open all night is the Oak Lodge 
which is closer to campus. (Baum 
Blvd.—make a left on Baum when you’ve 
come down Morewood.) The Oak Lodge is 
a dimly-lit diner with broken seats in the 
booths. It’s like sitting on a toilet. You 
have to go there because it’s open and it’s 
nearby and they have the stupidest 
waitresses ever. This woman had her hair 
tight in a net and she was scooting around 
with a very serious expression and she 
eventually scooted into us. Shfc bent down
to the table and lost her balance but not 
her composure and asked rather intensely 
what we would like. She was worried. 
When I ordered rice pudding she did a swan 
dive with the pad into the table and slowly 
with her pen that kept jamming she wrote. 
It took her 2 minutes. Soup-of-the-day, 
though, she knew the abbreviation of. 
Once she understood what she had written 
it took her no time to get the order to the 
table. It was, in fact terrific rice pudding 
for $.35. It must have been whipped and it 
was real cold and there was a lot. They 
have fine coffee too. The waitress some­
where along the line told another customer 
to go to hell because she didn’t like his 
attitude. Tough but dumb.
In Oakland on Atwood Street there is a 
bakery called Patsy’s where you can buy 
day-old bread for $.25 a loaf and fresh for 
$.40. There’s
In Oakland on Atwood Street there is a 
bakery called Patsy’s where you can buy
day-old bread for $.25 a loaf and fresh for 
$.40. There’s nothing the matter with the 
day-old bread except the outside is a little 
hard. Also Patsy sells big cinnamon rolls 
and donuts for $.10 a piece and more 
elaborate things like >iapoleans and two 
fruited danish for $.20. Patsy’s is a small 
bakery that you probably wouldn’t wander 
into on your own cause it’s so stark 
looking but go in cause it’s so cheap (next 
door to the Opportunity Shop).
If you need a shoemaker, Larry Russo’s 
on Oakland Avenue is good and in­
expensive and on Saturday you can get a 
shoeshine.
Frank Occhiuzze, a retured barber has 
trimmed a hedge in his yard in the shape of 
a life size elephant over a period of 10 
years. He said he ran into difficulty when 
one leg of the hedge did not grow as fast as 
the others, and had to calculate the 
amount of extra water that would have tc 
be sprayed on that leg.
by Rob Simbeck
“I’m convinced that there’s a lot of 
talent here, talent that’s suppressed and 
unrealized.” The speaker is Ed Evans, and 
as one of the editors of the Oakland 
Review, he’s convinced that the publica­
tion is the medium the students have 
needed to bring that talent out into the 
open.
The first edition of the magazine pub­
lished verse, fiction, reviews, a musical 
score, and student artwork. The edition is 
nearly sold out, and it has stirred interest 
nationally and internationally. The high 
commendation of the Coordinating 
Council of Literary Magazines is an indica­
tion of the impact of the magazine. In 
addition, Evans told the TARTAN, “We’ve 
received submissions from as far away as 
St. Louis and San Francisco. People have 
gotten ahold of the magazine in those 
places.”
“Our primary purpose is to publish 
students. The editors all have different 
ideas about what is good writing, so our 
selections are as objective as possible. We 
are maintaining a rigorous standard of 
excellence. We want a professional maga­
zine, and because of that I’m convinced it’s 
going to go places.”
“The magazine is entirely student 
motivated. We have no ties with any 
faculty member. We’re spending student 
money, and I think students should be 
aware of that. It’s there for the students. 
And we’re not in competition with any 
other publication that comes out of the 
University. Part of the implication of the 
Chinese format for the first issue was a 
philosophy of non-competition. We simply 
think it’s quality, and we want to print it.”
Speaking of the Oakland Review’s 
financial situation, Evans said, “We oper­
ated on a loss for the first issue, to get 
started. But by the end of the year we 
hope to have all the money that Student 
Senate allocated paid back.”
“What we need now is student interest, 
both in submissions and in working on the 
magazine itself.”
Auditions Held
Don Brockett is holding an Open 
Audition Call on Wednesday, November 14 
in Room 212 of the Fulton Building in 
downtown Pittsburgh, from 6:00 p.m. to 
8:00 p.m. for young singer-performers for 
a musical revue to be produced locally. 
Auditionees should be prepared to sing a 
song or two. A piano player will be present 
for the auditions.

---------------------------------------------------

5f .F.f û¥F$£ï'tiV*Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuèsday, November 13, 1973
EineKleineCatuHi
by Carol Shapiro
If anyone ever told me that joining 
Carnegie-Mellon’s Cameron Choir meant I 
would one day be standing in Heinz Hall in 
full-throated singing glee while the bodies 
of the Pittsburgh Ballet writhed around on 
stage, I would never have believed them. 
Nevertheless, after many hours of practice 
and after devouring countless boxes of 
Hall’s cough drops, we emerged in Heinz 
Hall, tightly tucked into the orchestra pit.
The choir had the honor of 
accompanying the reknowned (?) Pitts­
burgh Ballet in Carl Orffs Carmina Catulli. 
Under the direction of C-MlFs Mr. Wilkins, 
we plowed through the Latin jumble with 
determination; not quite aware of the 
potency of our utterances. You see, if 
ballets could be rated like movies Catulli 
would definitely get the “X”. And just 
think of all those brave little grandmothers 
who flocked to see their unseeable 
grandchildren sing their little hearts out in 
Heinz Hall!
by George Bias
Since the Beatles broke up in 1971, 
each of the four members have released 
albums which attempted to reach the 
quality attained by the group as a whole. 
Up until now the closest had been 
Harrison’s All Things Must Pass', however 
Ringo Starr’s latest, simply titled Ringo, 
overtakes that position. On first audition 
the album does not appear to be as good as 
the Beatle material although all the Beatles 
are included on the record.
The single from the album, Photograph, 
is good yet not the best. My feelings are 
that You and Me (Babe) is not only the 
best but the most unique, as Ringo gives all 
the credits and says his farewell at the end 
of the song. George Harrison wrote the 
tune which in spite of the strong Harrison 
flavoring still has Ringo spelled all over it.
Otber well known performers on the album
include Billy Preston, Jim Keltner, Klaus 
Voorman (who also did all the sketches in 
the accompanying booklet), Jim Horn, 
Merry Clayton, Jack Nitzche, Harry 
Nilsson, and many others. Other songs of 
note on the record are Six O’Gock, about 
the best song written by Paul and Linda 
McCartney, You're Sixteen, a mild 
surprise, and Lennon’s I'm the Greatest.
The new Ringo album is a great relief 
after two failures and this collection of ten 
songs is definitely worth orte’s listening. 
So, pick it up and listen to it.
While I couldn’t really see Catulli in its 
entirety from below, I occasionally did 
catch a glimpse of a provocative ‘tombe’ or 
two. Modern dance, combining’only the 
barest dress with uproarious action, 
captivated the diverse audience. Hopefully, 
our gutsy music, along with the pungent 
accents by soloists Amy Griffis and John 
Meyers, also provided spunk. However, 
most people were truly disappointed that 
Edward Vilella injured his back and was 
unable to perform in the ballet.
All of the vigorous practice was worth 
the thrill of hearing our voices resound in 
Heinz Hall. And how proud the Choir was 
when Dr. Semanitzky graciously bowed in 
his Tartan plaid jacket during the curtain 
call. Even the choreographer, Ruth Page, 
added a touch of recognition as she tossed 
her flowers into the pit. It was more than 
just ordinary singing which made 
Cameron’s Heinz Hall debut special; it was 
the enthusiastic direction and the dynamics 
of “show biz”. While we were “out of 
sight”, those exciting moments when the 
lights were dimmed and our hearts were in 
our throats (bad for the voice) will always 
be remembered.
An outrageous fabrication of the 
War of the Rose Garden. My 
attorneys, along with those of 
Mr. Shakespeare, will see you 
in court.—Victor Gold, Former Press Secretary to Vice President Agnew
Something had to come out of
Watergate that I could enjoy and
“The Tragedy of Richard II”
is it. ’ ’—John Osborne, Noted Nixon Watcher
Pep up your outlook with The 
Tragedy of Richard II. Paradox­
ical? Maybe. This satire on the 
current political scene is plotted 
along the line of Shakespeare’s 
Richard II, a kind of formula 
Barbara Garson successfully used 
in MacBird. But if the Bard has 
supplied the plot, Myers has pro­
vided up-to-date punch and in­
sightful humor. It’s fresh as to­
morrow’s headline, perennial as 
a classic, witty, clever, funny, 
good satire!___________________
THE TRAGEDY OF RICHARD II: The Life and Times of Richard II (1367-1400), King of England (1377- 1399) Compared to those of Richard of America in his Second Adminis­tration, by Robert J. Myers; 128 pages;illustrated; .. ..._ __ _.Mail to _ _ __ _
The TARTAN 
Room 50 Skibo
Please send mecopies of THETRAGEDY OF RICHARD II at $4.95(hardbound) per copy and------copiesof the paperback ed. at $2.75 each.
My check for $----------- is enclosed.
Name 
Street 
City —$tate.Zip
RUGS
forless
with your ID Card 9x12s $15, $19, $29, $39 also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tap«s»rt*s, Indian rugs 
furry rug' anH baHtpreads. Low 
prica^ oriental rugs in many six«*. 
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITUREruACC'C 5426 Walnut vn ASt 3 Shadyside
10 a.m. . 8 p.m. Sa». 'til 5 
For directions call ¿21-1025
RESEARCH AIDS
FREE CATALOG
-Thousands of research aids listed
-Each available with footnotes and bibliography
-Lowest prices are GUARANTEED
For a FREE copy of our latest 80-page 
mail-order catalog, send 50 cents (to 
cover postage and handling) to
NA T’L RESEARCH BANK
420 N. Palm Dr.. Bev. Hills, Cat. 90210 
You must include your zip code.
TELEPHONE: (213) 271-5439
First 
Birthday 
SALE 
save 10-40%
yf ¡1//
Film Arts Society
presents
THE GREAT WHITE HOPE
Thursday 
November 15
4:30 7 9:30 
Admission: 75{
CASTING- Mon. Nov. 19Tues. Nov. 20 
Wednesday Nov. 21
FOR REVOLUTIONARY WAR 
DOCUMENTARY
MEN-ages 18-25
Location shooting:
includes camping out 
cooking out
Must be adventurous— able to withstand 
cold, dirt and general grubbiness; 
atmosphere of cameraderie and good 
spirits anticipated.
PLEASE CONTACT
Zilla Clinton 
WQED-TV 
683-1300 
ext 283 or 295

---------------------------------------------------

TH E T A R T A N — Juesda y, °YjpjP|^ „ 3— Page 15
SPORTS____________
Thiel, Bad Weather 
Stop C-MU Win Streak
by Jim Litsas
The Tartan football team lost to the 
Thiel College Tomcats on Saturday by a 
score of 10-6. The slippery, snow-covered 
Greenville High School field stifled any 
offense that either team could muster. The 
Tomcats, last year’s PAC champs, wanted 
to postpone the game due to the bad 
weather and field conditions. It was finally 
decided, however, that the two teams 
should play despite the 20 degree weather.
Thiel’s first score came early in the 
game after they intercepted a pass on the 
Tartan 35 yard line. The Tomcats finally 
managed to score their touchdown several 
plays later, giving them a 7-0 lead.
The two teams slid and fumbled their 
way up and down the field until the second 
half when the Tomcats managed to put
together the only real offensive drive of the 
game, bringing the ball to the Tartan 3 
yard line where it was first down. The 
Tartans held for three downs and when the 
Tomcats fumbled, C-MU recovered. After 
Ted Harhai punted out of danger, the 
Tomcats repeated their trick, bringing the 
ball to the 3, where it was first down once 
again. The Tartan defense held, almost 
unbelievably, causing the Tomcats to settle 
for a field goal.
The Tartans, who had only reached two 
first downs all game, finally scored with 
seconds left in the ballgame, on a 60 yard 
pass play from Jay Duquette to Pat 
Counihan. It was, of course, too late.
Unfortunately for the Tartans, two of 
their starters were injured during 
Saturday’s game. Quarterback Ted Harhai 
broke his hand, and. John Radic, one of the
Tartans’ leading rushers and receivers, 
seriously injured his knee. Both injuries 
occurred in the first half. Jay Duquette 
played the entire second half. Ted did, 
however, manage to come in and painfully 
punt the Tartans out of danger on several 
occasions. These injuries, in addition to 
Brad Punko’s rib injury during the Tartan’s 
homecoming game two Saturdays ago, hurt 
the Tartans’ offense as much as the cold.
Not much can be said about Saturday’s 
low scoring game. Thiel obviously played
better than the Tartans, but the snow and 
cold affected everyone at Stewart Field, 
and we can’t really say how the game 
might have turned out had the field been 
less slippery. The Tartans play their last 
game of the season next Saturday against 
Hiram College. It’s a home game and it’s 
guaranteed to be a beautiful day.
Professor Tanaka at the Civic Arena.
Program on Human Sexuality 1973/1974 
Camegie-Mellon University
Varieties of Sexual Expression 
November 14 
Dr. Robert Morgan 
James Huggins PERSAD 
Rebecca Clare, PERSAD
BREED MEMORIAL HALL, MMCC 
WEDNESDAY, 8:00 P.M. 
OPEN TO MEN AND WOMEN
Tartan 
Tankers 
Get Ready
by Jeff Englund
The Carnegie-Mellon swimming team 
has been practicing the last few weeks in 
preparation for their 1973-74 PAC season. 
Coach Steve Fagan has fielded a squad of 
about 25, including 5 women.
A grueling regimen of 5000 to 5500 
yards a day has been instituted. The only 
problem though, according to a freshman 
team member, is that not enough of the 
squad take the program seriously.
“Most of the team just sit talking on the 
deck and put in just a modicum of work,” 
he said. “There are only a few freshmen 
who are willing to work as hard as we’re 
supposed to. The coach isn’t around the 
whole time so he can’t push them.”
The swim team will begin their attempt 
to improve upon last year’s mediocre 
season in an exhibition match against Lock 
Haven on December 1.
The first home meet is against 
Westminster at 2:00 on December 8.
JUST ARRIVED!
HOODED 
SWEAT SHIRTS
LINED JACKETS
8 AND S FT.
M U FF LE R S
¦" C MU 
808KST0RE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN Tuesday, November 13, 1973
Pro Wrestlers
Take Chances 
After All
by Mike Pochan
“Professional wrestling is phony. It’s 
nothing but a bunch of fat, moronic mill- 
workers pretending to hit each other. 
Nobody ever really gets hurt. Ha! They use 
Heinz ketchup for blood.”
This statement typifies the opinion held 
by 9 out of 10 people in regards to profess­
ional wrestling. Unfortunately, it is a gross 
exaggeration of the facts. Speaking from a 
background of contact with pro wrestling, 
this writer shall attempt to set things 
straight.
Professional wrestling is not “phony” ir 
the sense of the word, for it is real action 
All pro wrestlers are not fat and are not 
moronic nor are they all millworkers. They 
do not pretend to hit each other; the 
contact is real. Wrestlers do get hurt (one 
died of injuries suffered in the ring in 
1971) and wrestlers do bleed.
The most appropriate way to describe 
professional wrestling is in terms of stunt­
men. Pro wrestlers are stuntmen to the 
“n”th degree. Their skills are displayed in 
the form of dropkicks, body slams, and 
just plain brawling. They are trained to fall 
properly, and roll with punches. Granted 
though, some wrestlers do not perform as 
well as others. These are the ones, usually 
appearing on TV, who give wrestling a poor 
image.
Wrestling creates interest througji its 
manufactured conflicts, i.e., the good guys 
versus the bad guys. The clear-cut division 
between good and evil allows the specta­
tors to become emotionally involved in the 
match. This emotional involvement offers 
the person an avenue for easing the
pressures of everyday life, in other words, 
to blow off some steam. Therefore, one 
can find many people who are usually 
quiet and withdrawn screaming their heads 
off at wrestling matches.
Wrestling attracts additional interest 
with its multitude of gimmicks. The 
wrestler’s real names are not usually glam­
orous enough, so many pick up monikers 
like Gorilla Monsoon, the Great Mephisto, 
and the Crusher. Many also change their 
ethnic background and become Germans, 
Arabs and Indians. Some wear masks, some 
wear gloves, some have sparkling robes, and 
some shave their heads. The list goes on 
and on.
The pro wrestler is an interesting phe­
nomenon. Dispelling the belief that all 
wrestlers are millworkers, we find that they 
come from all walks of life; school 
teachers, truck drivers, business managers, 
real estate salesmen, and pro football play­
ers are just a few of their real-life occupa­
tions (if wrestling is not their only liveli­
hood.) The typical wrestler of today has 
gone through high school and college and 
has gained amateur wrestling experience. 
He works out regularly to maintain his 
muscular physique and must constantly 
practice his moves to keep his performance 
at the peak of efficiency. He must put up 
with minor injuries such as sprained ankles 
and bruised ribs and with major injuries 
such as a broken nose or a broken finger. A 
pro wrestler is not the lazy slob many 
people like to make him out to be.
Entertainment is the name of the game, 
•and that is what professional wrestling 
provides for millions of fans each year 
around the world.
Pittsburgh A 
Great Sports City?
by Glenn Campbell
The claim that Pittsburgh is a good 
sports town is slowly losing credibility. The 
Steelers, currently the kings of the local 
sports scene, didn’t sell out their entire 
schedule until they were bona fide winners. 
The “loyal” fans were unsure until the 
Steelers defeated the Cleveland Browns 
30-0 last year. The following day 10,000 
season tickets were sold, establishing a new 
NFL record for the most bandwagon 
jumpers (game). Now the Steelers 
completely dominate the mind of the local 
sports fan since they’ve proven they’re 
winners.
Some might infer frpm .this that Pitts­
burgh is football crazy. In this year of the 
well-publicized Major change, Pitt football 
crowds are not much larger than last year, 
when they were abysmal. Tony Dorsett, a 
local boy, is one of the best runners in the 
land and even he can’t attract the fans. 
Last Saturday Pitt did have a sellout. 
Disappointingly, most came to see Notre 
Dame. Anyone who has ever gone to a 
Notre Dame game can verify that the Irish 
never play on the road, having thousands 
of fans everywhere. Obviously Pitt 
appreciates any sellout, but it is disconcert­
ing that the opposition is the attraction.
The Pirates have fielded an excellent 
team recently, except for last year. While
they have attracted over a million fans they 
still haven’t drawn as well as Cincinnati and 
Philadelphia. The Pirates are one of the 
most popular teams on the road where 
their attendance is higher than at Three 
Rivers.
When the Steelers’ season ends the. 
Penguins are the only game in town. Until 
January they average about 9,500 a game 
in an arena with a capacity of 13,000. 
After January the games draw better with 
some Saturday evening games sellouts. But 
this is in a league whose arenas average 95% 
of capacity. And since Pittsburgh has no 
pro basketball team, there is no fight for 
the winter sports dollar. Surprisingly, 
hockey draws better in Atlanta and they 
have a competing basketball team.
This is not to say that Pittsburgh fans, 
are less loyal than those of other cities. 
Fans at sports events here are as vocal and 
knowledgable as any other fans. But the 
point is Pittsburgh won’t support a loser. 
Sadder than this, they must dispel all 
doubts before they'll support a winner— 
witness the Steelers’ popularity.
For years Pittsburgh has had an unfair 
reputation as a shot and beer town. 
Pittsburgh ably supports many cultural 
events of which sport is but one. Pitts­
burghers should learn it is not a disgrace 
being a bad sports town. San Francisco is 
the worst sports town in America but the 
cable cars still run.
SPORTS LIBERATED
Tanaka puts a powerful hold on Pittsburgh's Bruno Sammartino.
by Mary Jo Chabala
The CMU Women’s inter-collegiate vol­
leyball squad played their first match on 
Thursday, November 1 against Chatham 
College. The CMU first team won their 
match 15-4, 15-5, as did the second team 
15-11, 8-15, 15-10. Although the women 
had only a week and a half of practices, 
they played very well during this first 
match. Nancy Perlman, Mercedes Rod­
riguez, and Elly Zimmerman led the team 
to victory with their exceptional serving, 
setting and spiking.
The volleyball squad played their sec­
ond match against Penn State University 
on Monday, November 5. The CMU first 
team lost a hard fought match 11-15, 
15-11, 6-15. The second team lost 14-15, 
15-9, 1-15. The losses may be partly due to 
the facts that one-half of the PSU first 
team played on their second team, and that 
this was PSU’s ninth match. CMLTs first 
team was led by captain Pat Berry, Cath du 
Breuil, and Elly Zimmerman. Bobby Shoe­
maker and Lianne Pareich led the second 
team.
The women’s inter-collegiate basketball 
team has been practicing twice a week for a 
pre-season tournament at Seton Hill Col­
lege. They have drawn Duquesne as their 
opponents at 1 pm. on Sunday, December
2.
Women’s intramural basketball season 
starts Monday, November 12. Anyone still 
interested should see Jane Fisk in Gym 
Room 1.
The women’s field hockey and tennis 
teams closed their 1973 season victor­
iously. The field hockey team won their 
final game against Washington and Jeffer­
son on Tuesday, October 16 by a score of 
1-0. The tennis team won their final match 
by a score of 3-2 against California State 
College.
The tennis team finished their season 
with a 6-2 record. The team played ex­
cellently, leaving a strong group for next 
year with the exception of seniors Donna 
Musulin and Nancy Perlman.
The four-women foil team won their 
fencing meet, 10-2, against Allegheny 
College on Sunday, October 21. Pat Berry 
won all of her four bouts; Jean Cahan took 
three out of four; and Liz Souren also won 
three out of four. C-MLTs fencing form and 
strategy were superior to Allegheny’s.
The women’s intercollegiate volleyball 
team has been practicing during the past 
week. Five per cent of last year’s first team 
has returned to join a number of freshmen 
who look to be great prospects. Last year’s 
second team has improved greatly and 
should be a big help during the season.
