Vol. XXI no. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 1927
HARVEY WHITE 
IS CHOSEN TO 
CAPTAIN HVE
Elected by Unanimous Vote 
,At Testimonial Dinner Last 
Mon. in Training- Qukrteis
JOHN M. SCARLEf TO 
BE TEAM MANAGER
G.,Seibert Is Appointed Fresh­
man Manager'; AIL Oppo­
nents Team Named.
Last week, the Plaid basketers 
tiavlug completed a rather success­
ful season, put away their jqulp- 
ment anil 'gathered around the 
festive board to celebrate their vic­
tories, and elect the captain that would lead them In the coming year. The honor went to tbelr
structloD. This. Is Indeed standing honor for a sophomore.' and in Itself speaks Iqr the ability and leadership ol the newly elected Scotch captain. Wfiltey does sot exercise /his abili ty entirely along athletics,' for he It! one of the lew students'lb the history of the 
school to make Alpha Tau, the In* duBtrlea schojiiiilc. honorary, his sophomore year. White 1V member of Drulds. eophomore he orary fraternity, and Kappa Slgmal soctai fraternity. , ;
The evening following that of the banquet', the Athletic Council 
in session, . elected the managers for the coining season. fJohn M. Scarlett, a member;of Delta..Upsl- ion social fraternity, was eieoted varsity manager}.', and Gerald 1*. Seibert, a member of Sigma Nu social fraternity, was elects treats' man manager. & P. Hamlltonp^a member of .Sigma* Alpha Epsilon so- HaJ fraternity, was -appointed as first alternate. Next year’s first assistant or junior managers are: T. R. Zenk, R. Hewitt and J. A. Tajc. Those who wlJI ect as .soph­omore mandgers.'.are: Hi Alden,Selsan. GlleUe.anU Kolly.,
' At this ¿time It would be well to filyevfl..brief .review „of. the'.-past season.. Thei Plaid.engagedin four: teen.encounterer-wUh^olght.differ-, eat; colleges. . Of this group of contests, we won ire a*nd lost none. Of the nine games that we lost, four of them were lost by three points or leSB. Themost not­able games .of this season, were our first and third encounters with
th£ five of C. C. N. V. In-fact our 
ol.X of the'east might be entirely included under-this heed.,for the Plaid defeated Rensslcar bye the
fog evening, ft will be remeraKfered 
that Rertsslear beat us badly, the year before, and this victory was in­deed sweet. In defeating City College on (heir own home floor.ipllehed something,' that
Also. Itmembered that City College defeat; -ed' Syracuse by a large score, and 
Syracuse defeated Penn Stale do clalveiy. so this victory" deserves e placo beside the otie over the Irish, which was won earlier In the year Our series with Pitt ^deserves more than passive ' notice, because the 
;h : would probably ' be citychampions - now. If it hndn’t'been' for the uuper-human shooting of 
Heed. All In all, the Plaid did not have as bad a season as It would appear on the surface of the rec- ,orda. it must be remembered to, that it 'took' the Sklf>os some time• to get Into form, and after they did hit their stride that they accom­plished much.
At this time of<,the year It seems to be a custom, for the«»several newspapers to announce "All Amer­ican, All Tri-Stale. All Eastern,
be outdone In this...Hue,..has with the Judgment of severnl prominent' Players and followers of the sport, compiled an "iUl .Opponent Team," and hoping that our selection will, meet with-favor-from oiir read«*, we set>lt before you. :: _ : ,For the first team, we give:.R- P...;...Hamas; Penn Sftate.
In P.......Robihaon. W. & J.C.........Reilly, Penn .State.
tt G.........Ried^Plt'tL. G.—Carlin, :W. &, J. f .The difference between the first and second team is Indeed minute, but ae there can only be five m on the first team, we selected* (Continued on Page Four.)
COUNCIL COVERS VARIETY OF BUSINESS. AT MEETING
•terestlrig and business. Thé matter', of uniforms, far the Kiltie Band came up; Coun-- ell authorized' the purchase ot ten „.hewivones-and also the appropria­tion of .money for sousapbones tor the.Band. These articles areAo i hand by Campus Week.at
v Prtiin this year and was passed.. 
Budget« for the Senior Ball - and (he Sophomore Scholarship Bridge vet« aho approved Several other' ^dlapnued, and lat*r
$9* could, be obtained ateat (ton.
CARNEGIE.SYMPHONY WILL COMMpMORAT.E CENTENARY OF BEETHOVEN MARCH 27
A Beethoven , Concert will/ be given Sunday, ¿larch 27, at 8:15 
the'Carnegie Music Hall, imoration. of the one hun­dredth anniversary of the death of Ludwig Van Beethoven. The con- ill be given by the Student Orchestra under the direction of Dr. Karl A. Malcherek and prom­ises to present a varied selection of Beethoven’s works. These mu­sical entertainments are being given throughout the country lu mory of one of the greatest
of .style as orchestral, vhambei music, pianoforte, and vocal music. Vast power, intense passion, and Infinite tenderness are manifested In all his compositions. These characteristics ol his music will be emphasized during the . coming Beethoven Concert..'
M.M. GUILD TO 
HOLD CARNÌ- 
m FRI. NIGHT
Lecture Series On 
Concrete to Begin 
Week of iVfarch 20
Portland Cement Ass’n. of 
Chicago to Sponsor 
Short Course
The Portland Cement assoclatli of Chicago, In cooperation with Cii isgle Tech, wjji conduct'a shor^ 
ontrol o* — ch 21. 2 7:30*1010Q^P. M. Id Carnegie Union.-; -Mr. ' j*M:Kelley, a repre; sentative of; the - Portland Cement Company wlll glVa^he.lecture. The talks by:;Mr.‘^elle^ are very ln; terestlng aiid .beneflclej to.'any one Interested' in-Engineering . work. iltOBt year Mr. K^ney^gaye a simitar )f lectures, and they were ill' attended/, an average of iple! bel'ng.at’-e&ch lecliii lectures' for title year ai follow
lo'rtday, Mai»'21'
____t ratio/law.’- Elements of dIgn o^ 'concrete- mixtures. - Tri netnod of designing mixture. ¦ Tuesday, March 22 Water-content .ratio speclficatli or'concrete. Selection of. mat« 
^aJ3,.fl1tandtlrd,,test9„andL.PJ&as'i.r.9:-ne’nte .of aggregatea. .Deslgifof mixture by the calcula- Ion-method. Bulking of ,, aggre-
Thursday,. March; 24 Control of concrete In the field. Effects of age, curing and. other fac- cn quality of concrete In stnic- (Continued on Page Four.) -v •
CONTINUE STUNTS OF 
FRESHMEN DRAMATS
Popularity of Last Week’f 
Stunts Leads To Sec- 
^ ond.Week.
Foyer of the Arts Building.- How­ever no stunts will be given' on Thursday on account of chapel. The schedule of acts for this week
..Beyond the Palt, Mllbelm ....... .............<.Expressionism a la Cart«
Fenhoy, Sprenkle .«.Why He.Left Her. In two part '«dnesday, March 16.clilo. Beck, 'Burrage----in NeckertectuTAbbatlccl
(Continued on Paee Four./
C-y MEMBERS ENJOY THE 
TALK OF MR'. BOTHWELL
Mr. Earl Bochwell, ot the Oak­land V. M. C. A., delivered a atir- rlng &ddreas, at the recent banquet ofvthe C-Y Club. The banquet and meeting; waa held in the Faculty
iptHjaP 'for- clean ' acting, clean thinking, -and a high. moral atti­tude of the campus. He. spoke of the various philosophies .. of. life. Summed up in-a few words, they are: the Spartan, “Know'tbyself"; the Roman, ‘’Control thyself”;: the Jewish,''"Deny, thyself," - and . the Christian, . "Give thyself.” He
:ali:?to' the -members, of the C-Y club,'which Ja'tctopoeed of former Hy-Y men, that thpy carry on and propagate,.. the high ’Ideals for which their dub stood.Fifty-four' men. ''including C-Y menr-and otheji who wlsbed. to at- tend. were preseat at the banciuet: WhlleenJoying.aflnedljjner.'they enthusiastically sang, the old. gin­ger sonii. from --The ^ Ginger Jar Songv Sheet.' Mr..:Sh«an. of the Chemistry Department was toast-, master. was £he unanimous opinion of the group, that At least one more.meeting- shoold. be heldr
and\> If ,pbeal^r4th»/ sl^nld W 
held eown • mAfllhi
Tickets on Sale This Week; 
Admission Fòr Affair 
To be $.75 Each
Langley Lab ‘and In the Union the Margaret-Morrison Guild, will bold its annual festival and every stu­dent of Carnegie Is Invited to come. And what is even better'you cau come bringing all your friends and relations, yttftr best girl, the- boy frieud or just yourself. , Tickets will be on sale beginning Monday, March 13, for $1.50 a couple or, by all the laws of mathematics, 7b cents a piece. An>> of the pretty young glrle stationed In- the balls of -the Qgltege of Industries, Arts, Morrison,' at Langley'
Just ask them. The also be on sale In the fraternities aud the men's and women's dor­mitories.Since It" is a St. Patricks Cara], val everything will be green even the costumes: of the bewitching freshman glrlB who wilt serve tlte refreshments. Their coBtumes. are being msde by Margaret Var- dj},' Margaret McColley, Edna My­ers.- Hester Ream, Ella Barnbardt and Wyona Reed. Elizabeth Les­sor Is In -charge of the costumo committee. , The girls who. are working with -Adele Hahn on the publicity committee 8re Dorothy Lutz and. Gertrude Zenk.Entertainment and eats will be served Impartially in .Langley Lab
quantities of. candy that are'to be on aale. Robland-McMJUJon’e Campus Orchestra will, furnish tiie music for the danclng.in the Union. Dancing will begin at nine o’clock and last until twelve. ' . .
Agnes Bittaker is chairman of the Decoratlon'Commiltee and the two girls working with her are Florence Bright and Marlon Ackln- hell. ‘ ELta Kappa Nu;- national (Continued on Paee Fonr.i
Carter to Lecture on 
' ~^ietíÍngr-ift®Éh48-
The sixth lecture of the Chi Equipment Course will be ghMarch the eighteenth, by
torch, JnVcoDStructloo workJs be­ing quickly recognized. Aside fro its uge in repair work, the tor< method of weeing in constnictii Js lieir.g stsndsrdlzed. J' Sheet metal shops are producing better' quality of products at rea savings over old methods. One large shop, where containers foi cheiblcal^ 'are' -b^llt,.-such. as -vats tanks, colls, stills,. and the like, has found'the oxy-acetylene proce vastly superior in working on . product. Copper,. aiumlnum, jnot metal, nickel^ and numerous s] dal alloys .are being welded.
In this development the torch rapidly replacing riveting. In fe the engineering study ot the welded Joint la rapidly becoming of much importance as that pf rIvetGdv joint in our courses in ma­chine design. / 1Plumbing and heating contrac1 ora are rapidly recognizing the benefits ot the oxy-acetylen< cess In the Installation'of Indus­trial piping. No mechanical Joints, one solid pipe, with the pipe weld­ed in Just whfere it Is wanted, means better results* less risk, longer life, so that welded Joints are likely to 
supersede old pi The extent to
’Theatrical Number” of 
Puppet to Appear Mar. 22
The Theatrical .Number of the Puppet will be issued to an eager­ly waiting world on Tuesday, March '22. ' Ita preparation has in­volved ages of time and worlds ot eSort. It is «expected to eclipse every - one of . Its'' predecessors. AOd above al), It will be cleani .The editors are so confledent of its Hly-whitouess- tliat they'oBet a handsome knecklng-cup to. ¿anyone who finds in lt the least suggestion of suggestion. This issue ' Will bring with'It as announcement oC great Interest to , Carnegie Tech students. conducting a :’ talent' for
First National Plcli will.. send - dlxectorB, .camera-men and 'make-lip>'men to Carnegl« w!thlD'.the;'hext'tew- weeks to make' screen tests (of those wbose .quail- flcatloue merit most consideration.
will be given the opportiAlty' to And out definitely whether or t#>t he has it ' Full details ¿of. this nouncement v will appear In i Tuoadaya Puppet. . •After the Theatrical Number.will 
come the Alumni Number.- brist­ling with, dirt—$Jrty dirt— from acds about. .Carnegie» graduates. .Alumnl wlll cringe and 'undergrad­uates ^iU gaop. at thls daring ex­pose. of former Carneglan»’ deeds. U'wpL be released In-time for.Pup- *«i-'«UmiMtS'to. fcave It.on huid:for the IButeH holidays
Carnegie institute Opeps New
Galleries of Its Own. Pain tings
Four additional- galleries, contain-
Institute lie. 1
two of these galleres' hangs the splendid collection of line en­
gravings of Claudé Mellan which £ presonted to the Institute by 
«netti Ssaver of Pittsburgh. The 1er two feaUeries are' devoted .10 >w from th^ paintings of
collectors for temporary exhibltic The gift of Mr. Seaver comprises >out .190 engravings, . Including 
practically all the important pot- by Mellap. They were as­sembled over a lohg period of by Louis R. Metcalfe ot New who' is aa. authority on Freuch portrait engravings. 1m-ot Mellan’s workB
The French school,of portrait en­graving to which Mellan belonged 
¦began about tbe year. 1625, oad con­tinued without a break down to the Freuch Revolution. During a large part 'ol'. this period the French 
bchool was by far. tbe most Import*
__t In Europe; all portrait engrav- Yng’iin line waa done unà'èrv'its: In­fluence' and; tho bes^ foreign en- grnvere chme* to France to learn their cpiCt- '. MeUan was tbe fore­runner of [the brilliant school ot line engriverB ot ’ which Robert Naniteutl jwaa. the gnate'st ex­ponent.- Probabiy tlio best kuown engrav­ing by Méllkn. a print of which is included.1 in-the Carnegie Institute In his ¡famous Véli of Saint Ver- onica, Ja' vhlch the entire h«sd of Christ is^drawn with a single line, In a splraVbegluning.at the tip ot the/nòs'éi? ;;Thè' ¦flneat exampie of MelisD'é-wórk' là probably! tbe Por* 
iralt of'-ì’abrl de Peyresc. ThlB plate has iail ’the. beet pbints ot this eòpraver's technique. The mcdelllng óf the eyes, for Instance, has the facility and freedom ot a sketch, yét lt is absolutely precise. A' print.-o^'OiiB portrait Ib- included In the colVectlon. •
' Amotig'.^he paintings lent for temporary,- exhibition' hre seven pictures-ffom thè collection of Dr. 
¦“ \D. S$datwal] è - Leintn^ant _.: f<T<vnt(hued on ^ai
Chinese Students 
Publish Pamphlet
Ans wers Many Pertinent 
Questions oh Situation 
in Orient
Too few people In the United- 
States actually realize Just what 
the true situation is that exists in 
the Far East at the présent time. Editorials, cartoons, and startling tries offer many'conflictingthe Chinis problei that fevand U Is litUefacts lire known about the. ques­tion. Because ot this lack of an Accurate ' understanding on the part of people-In this country, the Chinese Students’ Club of Pitts­burgh has taken an effective means of supplying long-needed. -Informa­tion bn the true political situation tn China today.
'Thè' committee of the Chinese Students’ Club, in an effort to clear, up the American- mind, as to the . conditions' in • the. ..Orient, has been -^Instrumental in ptibl(shing’'A pamphlet entitled- "What’ About ehIria;”iin:;wh1clr'are:-.'coiitain&d-i:a> number of pertinent questi* their.
gie, Gregory 61 Robbins of Pitt, T. C.; Chang ot the Westinghouae Company, Y. Y. La! of Carnegie,CA CARXN.E of Pitt, and L. F. Chen of the Westlnghouse Company. The pamphlet was edited by this committee from definite Informa­tion and-data supplied by the Chi­nese Legation, and was financed by funds offered for the work “by a number of Pittsburgh interests. The printing was done by Mr. La(, with the co-operation of ti£ Car­negie Printing Department, and three thousand copies have been prepared. Ma^y,, of .these have been-;Bent tò> oth’er1 Chinese stu­dent dubs In over forty other col­leges and universities lit this coun­try. as well .as to all United States Congressmen and Senatore.. The Pittsburgh organization has an­nounced that copies will be sent (Continued on Page Four.)
s will
____ -- -.ncortthe: Cirnegie Musi/ Hall on Fri­day evening, March 26, at 8:lj> o’clock, j.:':
The combined glee clubs—men's 
and womens’, have been preparing falthfullyi ior thlB concert in order to make'^it A success: : The Men's Glee: Club-Is quite advance^ this year and-lias made a very good record-fdr itself in t'he concérts ln which ilysy have' appeared.- 
The,-home, concert Ib becoming more pojbular each year, anil this 
year's ooncert: will'prove the best ot .any . previously .given. Price of admissiop Is 'v'ery.;:'reasonabJe and well .within the,:' means of every student. .1' Choice.'-’ ^e^a will >be only *l-qo. •
À'ye^'efficient aommiUee is.ia charg^ df the- concert.' Alan Ç.. 'BrenCon •1s'i'tSalitften^:affÙ‘{'llS::'ts‘ .blÿ assÎBÎed by J. Robertson, WU- iur Scott and Oarl-^ry. v WJlbur A Scott has been electedo the position of glee club man-.
SUB - COMMITTEES FOR 
8TI1 C. W. ANNOUNCED
¦ At the first meeting of the Gen­eral Committee of Campus Wee held last Tuesday night, plans f< the eighth annual festival were put under way. The appointments o last week completed the list of th< general committee, beaded by Doi Dalton. /.
The next meeting. of tho com mittee will be held this evening, 
at which time tbe entire personnel comprising the various sub-com- mittees will be announced. It Is expected the list will Include over lOO names when4 completed,". A calendar of'.events has been tentatively prepared with, several of the. main events already defi­nitely' fined. Dates have yet'to be chosen for the first balloting for Campus Queen, but it will probably 'be Immediately after the Easter Vacation. The name of the show haa.yfet to be divulged and from ln<4' lcat[.onfi,>.A :-gceaU-4eal.<of -secte'oy urrounds-the choice for the year.
.The annual Westminster Student Tour for 192? will he under the personal management of Dr. John B. Kelso,' Dean of Wooster Col- lege. , . ' . ',vThe tour.which wlll.lnctude most of .thé. Important' Èlatorical points: In Europe'is' .an annuo^. .affair and isarranged^'especially''1 fbr 'the con- .venl«nce •of college students throughout.the Unjtedr States.The conductor of the party will dq Rev. G. a. Frantz, a notea min­ister and' prominent architect. Msb .Florence K. Root, formerly dean ot P.'.C.'W.- will be the social director ot'this, the third; tour of the- Westminster Association. ', The itinerary will' start from New ..York July 2 and will be con­cluded August 9ft In ' the same city The.approxtmate expense In­cluding «all fee« will be about #$»5.00. • Any. students of Carnegie who> are '• Interested '«honld com- .ttu>kitev.vttH~.^llSBk RuthDvwson a senior In Ha^iret Merrlson.
Honiè| Conceit of 
GleiClubis Mar. 25
Combined Glee Cluby (o Give 
Excellent Program at 
/Carnegié Mus. Hall '
from his duLles on Febniary 27, be­cause of other interests' occupying 
bis time. '- Scott, this year’s publicity man­ager, a Junior in the Music Depart-' ment, was unanimously elected to fill the position of manager for'the balance of the yoar. He was ac- (Continued on Page Four.)
R. O.T. G. Will Begin 
Spring Outdoor Drill
The R. O. T. C. will i
objective of each .company Is to win the oncoming R. O. T. C. Competition, and have the dlstlnc' tlon ot possessing the “Guide On,” which is a banner' given to the winning company.'. -.Outdoor ,dtllls will be held from now on until the end of the semester.The formation of the companies -wilt be near'Langley La,b; the Sig­nal Corps forming on the Bteps of tho Arts building. From there they'will march to the cut whore they . will . go through various maneuvers ot Compahy Close Or­der Drill. All of these dTllls *wlll be under 'tlte leadership of the etu- dent commanders. Later on there will -be some battalion formations of Cadet MaJor Jobn E. Mueller.Company- A of .the Engineering possesslbi
(will be this - Thursday .e
anies will get together am e on the order of the appeari of their respective compao i. the competition,
DR. E. V. COLLIS 
TO CONTINUE 
CECTURESHERE
To-Discuss “The Human 
Factor in British Coal 
Mining” Tonight
"The most important dust hazard 
today arises from Lite uses ot pneu­
matic tools such ns jack-hommers 
in mining,” declared Dr. Edgar X. 
CoDis, pn^éeeor of, 'preventative 
medicine of the- -University of 
Wales lust night at the Carnegie 
Union ih a publtc lecture on "Indus­
trial Dusts". Dr. Colile will discuss “The Human. Factor in British Coal Mining" in tbe second of Us series of lectures tonight at Carnegie In- stttute of Technology. Dusts com­posed of materials found In the hu­man body and'soluble In the body Julcos seldon cause trouble,” he said, but dusts which are insoluble In the body, if/terge, cause bron­chitis, and if minute, pneumonia.” While the use. of pneumatic tools Is causing the moBt important duct hazard ot th t present, he pointed out, recont dovices for catching the dust generated are now available. Tbe air «Bvnpioc from the tool Is used on tho ejector principle, he explained, to actuate au exhaust cut'fent of air which draws away 
the dust and carries It to a flannel- bng iilter. Thè principio employed in this device when generally ap­plied. he said, should make pneu am’V tools, safe, to use.nnd remove mucn of thè BJJica-dust hazard from the mining Industry.In Kpenklnjt of his own 1nvo6ll- gatlons in British Industries, be claimed that dusts differ In their ef­fects on tbe human lungs. v*‘For the mi'st pnrts. ho eald "dust of animal origin are fairly- harmless and so are most of vegetable origin, duets such aa coal and flour; but vege­table husks from cotton and flax set up a tendency to bronchitis and. pneumonia and GEST lo spasmodic asthma" V.Among soluble dusts that cause • bronchitis or /pneumonia, Dr. UTEEEV grouped carborundum, emery, and . glass.: One dust, that of silica, arlaiPE-from flint, quart? zite metalUrérous rock, sandstones and granite wan placed In a special class. * It orfgiimos bronchitis, ho asserted, .when particles dre /large anit~piWmou<aVwheir.nto,Uteftbut:ll- slowly dissolves in the lungs and chnngp» them from elastic spongy organs Into rubber-llke materials. Such materials.’^ be pointed 'out, readily falls victim to tuberculosis 
infection.
Night School Men Re­
present 1,100 Firms
Enrollment of 3,600 is Larg­
est in History—About 
5 Times That of 192.1 ,
SECRETARIAL CLUB TO HOLD BRIDGE AT P. A. A. FOR SCHOLAnSHIP FUNO
The Secretarial' Club of Mar­garet Morrison will hold.bridge ^MsfthiîO at the.Pittsburgh^-Ath-
\Tickets will be on sale lu a week or two, and may be obtained from members ot the committee. Tossie Morrison is chairman of the committee.
DEAÍÍ GREEN BACK 
FROM CONVENTION
Miss Green Serves on Nom­
inating Committee and 
Addresses Deans
Wltth the return of Dean Oreen from the conference of tho Nation­al Association ot the Dean9 of Women which 251 held February23 to 26 Inclusive at 'Dallas, Tex., were heraldod rnauy sew Ideas and possible solution to the varied campus situations iu- which tho deans, and' the students were In­terested. This was tbe fourteenth annual convention of this associa­tion. a part ot the National Educa* tlnal Association. To this congre­gation cume representativos from the High Schools. Normal Schools and Colleges ot the United 9tates.The association 61 Interester in making cifear; to tbe public and to the-governlng bodies ot educational institutions the necessity of having a competent, thoroughly capable dean of women or ot girls; and In making moré 'significant the service of the deans of wome¡n; and Id developing the glrlB Into a lovely type o' responsible young woman­hood, physically, mentally, morally, and socially. / ,
Tho members of this assentation have realized that tha present* eca^ nomio lntereBts -of women ' bavo chniigod tho environments of girls The - have realized that there'is need for a dean of .woman /not only. In "colleges hut; ^IqV: fie'cond&r/ schools; and that;speclally trained 
women will Boon be needed, oven in
Mlss.'preen' took quite an active part in/.tiie conference.- Bealdos serving on- the nominations com­mittee, one of the special .coin- mitteeÉ chosen, -Miss Green;gave a discussion before the University.
.aiidl^pjLege^vlgloii^ot^he-J*?^.ference. / ...x ..- She discussed the several points. 
Indicated by Dean White ot Carle-- (Continued on Page Four.)
GIRLS’ GLEE CLUB SING 
AT EMERY M.E. CHURCH
ELECT NEW 0FF1CERSF0R 
REMAINDER OF TERM
-Class elections of officers have lately, been ,/held, in the varibue schools. The Freshman election- 1o Art School 1s a regular one, it (be­ing their custom .to elect officers twice a-year; Those chosen for the various offices-'are as follows: President,William', .pussy;, .vice, president, Edytlie -Islley; secre: tary, Francis Besworick;. treas­urer, William Brown: ' Anne Nuel was elected-the most representative girl and Paul Droste most repre­sentative; twy.- Elections^.in the. ..other schools are being, held .to fill vacancies crjeated by mid-semester fatalities. Ini Science School revotes will be taken for Junior and Sophomore secretaries. :The. nominees.-for tbe Junior: office are John E. Jacobs and Fra^k .E. Watson, while the SophomoM nominees are-Harry B. Deaklns.-and Robert T. ones. In 
Margaret- Morrisoii. - the.-office''of #ecreury-'4>t 'the-.Jivalor,dlas> has i (CHUnM ofiw ron,.) ¦
Nearly 1,100 different firms In the Plltsburgl^sdistrlct are repre-' sented by employees among the 3,600 night students enrolled thia year at Carnegie/ Tiie report shows also- that the registration this year Is the Jargest In the his­tory of the school and Is more than'fhree times tbe night, student enrollment of five years 'ago.Although several hundred ot'lhe employers aré represented by :on- iy: one or* two •ot-r-lhelr--workera,-. approximately 1,300 ot the-studentsoily 20 different firms. Thirty-nine companies each have ten or more of their young men or women employes enrolled In the Carnegie night classes. Three than a hundred from
ufacturlng Company, with 420.; the
with 104.Other industrial firms with com­paratively large numbers.of theli
47; Pittsburgh and Lake Erl« Railroad, 47; Bell- Telephone Com­pany, 46; Pennsylvania ^Railroad, 45, and tho Union Switch and Slg- nat. Company, 45. ... . . *. While most of the-employee of the'- larfeer..-’‘cortpanlee listed'rate‘ taking night courses; related to tho machinery, or electrical industries, courses Is the bullllsg trades have attracted a majority, of this, year’s » ' (Continued on Page Four.)
Concert Given. By, Girls, Under 
Auspices of Kappa Phi.
A concert was given by thi GlrlB’-Glee-Club''under the auE pices of: the Kappa.'>Phl,- XI. chap­ter, a national organization of Car­negie Tech ' and University' Pittsburgh, was given last Thur day night at the Emery M, I Church.The program was as follows:I.—a^ Dear Old Techthe Spring—
Bullinger/Ross Return 
From Publication Confab
Russell P. Bollinger and -Edward B.-.Roes have; Just'^returned from a conférence' of '-the-Assoclated ;Col^' lege Comics of Uie E^ast which was held tn Philadelphia on March 4, 6, and 6. Twenty-two Eastern col-, lego : publications' .were represent­ed. Mr. ' Bulllnger and Mr. -Ross . at­tending in tbe : interests of th^' Carnegie Puppet. During the con- ference. 'tt banquet was held' In the. Hotel Pennsylvania, end . ad­
vertising rate»,, the > prevention of plagiarism, eichanges; etc.; ver* discussed..' 1 A .standard -slze.-for college- comic’ magasines -was de­cided upott. The University of Pennsylvania acted- as host or tbe occasions andMr.Hlgeebethaa.-a Hûrtrd rwas i olio^» 4fc.»ra»
b:Y<
e. Virgin’s Slumber Song — Reger. .Glee Club. 'IL-a. Vooal solo—Spirit Flow­er. Tlplon.
Ill—a. Shepherd Ulne Own — Taylor.b. Indian Cradle Song—Mat-
b. Vocal solo—Only a Rose. ' Lucille Huff. \V.—a. Thò Green Cathedral— Hahn.b. Sweet—and,- Low^Bantbyi
VII.—a. Persian-Serenade — Mat- >. . . thews. ¦ .• b. Wake, thee, now. Dearest -rTaylor. . o. AJma. Mater.Glee Club...Director of s the Olee Club; Al OTEXTVTFHL Accom'ptaiMst,' :Margarot' Gallagher. /:. “ 'Under the efficient direction of Mr. Johnson, the Girls’ Glee Club, with a number of new members, .has been successfully ^conducting concerts since the Christmas holi­days. and ' programs have beenplanned for the future.
The. Carnegie . Mechanical En­gineering Society will hold' Its .an­nual banquet, at the Ruskln Apar- ments on March 2$, at 6:3D P. M. Professor Trlnks, head of the De­partment of Mecbantcal Engineer­ing, will be the toastmaster, and 
Dr. Sboen, head of. tbe. Department of Psychology will pfobablv be tbe speaker of-.the Evening. .The' fac­ulty will be there In full force, and Invitations have been soijt'to:the alumni residing about- Pittsburgh untlng tbem to attetid. The- com- mitten, which Is composed ot H Bryant. Ernest Drescber IV Brown stein. B. W Hoffmab H W JTffer- son has 4rT>nge^a,^od program 
at-:-«ntertaInniknts .T^e. price. per plate Is 41-M ^
8TH C.W.SH0W 
JO BE HELD“ AT 
NÍXONTHEATRE
Two-Night Run Hat DovVri- 
town Theatre Offers Special 
Opportunities to Public
READING NEXT FRI.
John Hardy, of Drama Depart­
ment, To Head Technical 
Staff of Play.
Vory rapid .Btrldes toward tbe ' completion of arrangements for - the i Campus Week Shew have been made within the past fftw days aud the' most recent announce mentB to come from penonil'Chalr- mun Walt Rogers are ot a verydefinite nature. . " ._____", I.’,1 •
'After several weeks of coneld- oratlon and consultation with np*' resontatlve officials, Frauds Kolb, buslneBB manager of the show,. b&9 flnaJly, secured the Nlxon: Theater In Pittsburgh for > the production. The contract Id for the two nlghti of Campus Week that fall on- May- 13 aud 14. Tho Friday evening arranged by tbe
the regular Saturday 'night - per­formance. It la not intonded. that tlte Friday showing,detract in any . way from the student attendance at the Mardl Gras, but that it be considered as primarily, for the; general public. .Saturday night- 
will be show night for' Carnegie ' campus as In the past. '
The advantages of staging tho play-ln.a downtown Uieator,neied -. hardly bo emphasized, ‘Better . sillied tor such ft purpose in mat* production, the plan also'
fits of tiie Nixon lobby will be utilized, for . diaplay'-pantoses, and ' In addition, the’committee baa se­cured-tbo'co-operation dt a large - group . of Pittsburgh ./ merchants and thó dally press, 'to insure full 
supportfot^thoproduoUon. 
:«^b9^rai.readings4 of i.the - plays under ,con-'’ slderatioh will be ptade .next. Frl*. day.afternòón-ln-tbe Little Thoater ‘ ot 4:30, and it Is the wlah,of the littee that all wbo desire to-
the enst. will be-chosen lmparLinlly from'tiie'trial'groups. Mr. Sani. Janney, author of last. y.sar,siCam-- PVs Week, production, has been. In Pittsburgh 'conferring with- the committee, and he Is-Téry enthu-
cent pboductione of other, well- known - playwrights for discussion..The Oampus Week Show com­mittee feels,.that it has bâen very - fortunate In securing the services of Mr.'John Hardy, technical dlrtc* tor of the Drama Department, as- 
the technical director.for the:W&7 week play. < Mr. Hardy’s .marked' success as a .director Insures the •very finest' that can be expected in 'the coming production. The art directors to be Lee Mitchell, who. designed the sets- .for the recent. Drama Department success, '’The;' Dance of. Life."- The office , of stage manager will be -filled' by a very'capable personage in Joe' Woodsr „ Maxine tFfnslerworld will ' 
(Continued on-Page.Fotir)' '
DELTA MU JOINS RANKS 
OF ROBBERY VICTIMS
Theepldemlcofburgliirywhlcb has been‘spreading among.’the fra* témitles on the campns clalmed another victim - last Friday whea tbe Delta Mu Fraternity on Shady avenue was visited by an early morning intruder. 'When, members came down to;: theln'rooms in the inornlng, they 
found the house’In disorder and'
several-' watches ., were ’ missing. The i; Intruder .. worked ;hurrladly',: oyerlpoktog many valuables whfcä
The 1inhere place tbe time «the robbery ..at between four and seven o’clock - Friday morning,.’ those^being ;the only houra that.. none was about. The thief pròba- ' bly. entered by the front entrance.: which.. ts supposed ‘ to -tiave1 been ' left unlocked by a pledge who en- - l'tered late. at night. A .
iors- tomorrow.- £rom 9:30 .to 5:00. . . . ,;••!/.The Staudard Oil Company -of- fsrs. a wide, scope of. opportunities tor ' prospective ’ employees. Its scope" includes-' positions ..: in tha^ flnancUl. Uansportatlon. merchan- . 
dlslng,-distribution, actual produc­tion,;, and.;.-the TeflDlngprocesses part'of the company. . 1>:'. '. <The Standard Oil Company will hold the Initial Interview this year and many other oqmpanle*

---------------------------------------------------

Overend to Visit 
All Eastern Clans
Director Jewett. Along to 
Become Acquainted * 
With Alumni
Buddy Overend- nod Direct 
Jewett of the College of InduaLvI 
leitt this week for tbe. East, on
Melt 'the varloui
That our Refreshment 
Entertaioment is most de- 
9 sirable for Fraternityand 
I* all other School Affaire, ' 
experience will convince.
Small orders receive the 
6&me careful attention as 
tbe more extravagant
trip will be similar Jo nature to
'tbe western trip, of Mr. Overend.
Ho will take with 'him tbe movies 
and slides which he bad along on 
4rlp, as well as a stock 
iboul th.
Director Jewett has only In the Industries school forbout a year, not many of theil know him. -He Is therefore taking this opportunity to become acquainted with more of our old graduates. ,
The trip includes talks berore tbe Plainfield and Westfield, New •, High Schools. The (alk at
Weddings 
a Specialty1ÖYCE
WeaMeld a 
At 7:00 o
ictlng.
ELLJOTT’S 4010 Fifth Ave. Store is Convenient for Students’ Supplies
tor branch store was establish- d for tbe patronage of neigh* orhood students and Is stocked pith merchandise required EY
Technical Bo<
of the same week, nother high school will be visited ind an evening meeting al tbe West Side Y. M. C. A., New York Clly. All alumni not able to at­tend tbe Monday evening meeting should attend this one. Notify Gibbs. IngersoII-Rand Company, 11 Broadway. New York City, or L. G.-lean Gas Accumulator Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey.:e also under meeting at the Rutherfork, New Jersey, High
First Church of Christ, ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenu Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and FrU day Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and - Saturday Evenings-. Private lessons by appointment.." Mayflower 7fl91 • ¦ .
21,nd that2:00 o’clock tbe ,
ivlted t»nd this
mplete Itinerary o! the
Schools.The i trip is as follow ch 16, Hansore; March 16, Washington i 19. Philadelphia; March 20, 21. and 22, New York; March 23, ¡nectady; March 24. Buffalo;
irch 17.
Marci25, EriI March 1
The trip is in continu publicity campaign loi Toch,' started by Mr. ils western trip. The co-operate a Treat exi •nly attending the wee elves, but by bringing friends.
CONCERNING MANNERS 
(Michigan Slate Normal Colle'-s).Have you ever noticed the :hange that takes place in a fresh- nan? He la passing through a ransitory perlo'd or college life, ’or he has just come out of high ih about ot fit in well withnd there
he is :belni
If a froshm
Into
i chai
différé ¡lalloi friend
his appearances during thrf Tie of the college te ere must he somethli •liege elùdente that Is different, lere Is. It is the difference that
The college
i and i make In an individual.
If yirked to n this him
ALUMNUS GIVES »1,000 TO CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT F0NO
a check for $1,000 to the Endow­ment fund. .Mr. Hobbs has always been very much Interested in Car­negie, and shewed his loyalty . In this substantial manner. This amount wUl -be somewhere be­tween, *7,500 and *8*00 by 194C. through tbe plans of the Carnegie Corporation.Mr. Hobbo Is with the Diamondof Pain«
Ohio.Dilttenegie Institute of Technology.This should set an. example for those of tbe alumni who have not as yet' made any contribution to tbe-Endowment Fund..
Theatre Tips
STRAND THEATER
A very Interesting program Is ifferod this week by the Strand Theater in the variety of pictures oming, starting Wednesday and- Thursday with Tom Mix in "The Canyon of Light” a thrilling drama 
iglng from the battlefields of the stem front to tbe great Sierras 
or the United States. Tony the ts Tom and Is an aclor as ever. ' Friday irday Charlie Chaplin in lest comedy of his career r Arms" also "Alaskan Ad-
ironder hoi as grea
irld’swithbow and arrow. Monday and Tues- •Wlnners of the Wilderness" . from the French and Indian and showing Braddock’s de­feat on. the way to Fort Duquesno how George Washington saved remninlng troops from being Ihilated. Tim McCoy plays the Ing role. Also selected come-
¦ the
United 'States for advanced study .loag the.line of mining and metal­lurgy. He decided on ' carnegta Tech, and entered as an Irregular Junior In tbe Mining course in Oc- jber, 1923. In June, 1926, he as graduated with, a B. S. degree i Mining. /
It Is Interesting lo note that Dutt •as chosen to take 'up advanced rork In spite of the fa«t that tbe ther two candidates both had de- Tees higher than DuU; one an I. A. degree, and tbe other a Pro- 
essional degree.'
Since bis graduation here Dutt bad been employed by the Pitts- 
burgh Coal Compai
MANOR THEATER
Thursday, this wonderful pictur is YT otber than Elinor Glyn’s "It tho slory you readln Cosmopollta: not so long ago. Clara Bow an Antonio Moreno play tho leadio roles. Friday "An Affair of lb Follies" with a knockout ca6t ii eluding Lewis Stone. Billie Dov and Lloyd Hughes. Tbe story ofi who irrles
girl but can't support hei the' result Chaplin in •¦Shoulder Arms”, also "Alaskan Adventures” wlih Art Y< world’s greatest archer. Monday
s grealef
Folli« 
PT what ¦Charlie
IliciDix.:his
latest comedy drama “Paradl Two”, Betty Bronson playi leading role.^ Selected coi and news events with each c
SCHENLEY
train, on the street, in the she wherever he may be, there Is usually that bit of culture about him that immediately points him out as a college man. The key 
man’s ap* ind neat­ness. Tf any student leaves' col­lege without these two requisite’s thoroughly Installed In this man­ner, then college has been a part failure to him. One young man of 'the Ypsl Normal faculty eald that the greatest lesBOn ever taught him In manners Negro servants who, wliei)
Outstanding, motlt ductlons continue I Utlon In the Schenley Theater, Forbes street. Oakland district where General Manager Harr Davis looks carefully after tbi amusement requirements of die criminating pleasure seekers. Mon day and Tuesday, March 14, 15 brings "Corporal Kate,” the story of a girl who goes to France as i entertainer during the world Wi and featuring Vera Reynolds wl Julia Faye and Kenneth Thomson. The latter, by the
HINDU ALUMNUS 
RETURNS TO INDIA
Wfll be Employed as Min­
ing Engineer, by-: Com­
pany in India ^
Monandri Nath Dutt, a Hindu aludent who graduated .from Car* 
negle last year,' sailed from New York March 12 on the Berengarla 
for India. ' Dutt’s. story- Is one of aaoy of foreign students who have come In the last few years study -at Carnegie;
3utt graduated In 1921 from the University of Calcutta with a Bachelor , of Science degree. Upon raduatlon, he was chosen one of three from among IS candidate > enter an apprenticeship course Ith the Tata Iron and Steel Com­pany, Limited,- India, in tbe Col- Dopartm«
WHY PROFESSORS GET GRAY
The bluffer. The boyf.with the loud and empty., head. Tbe'fellow
nths :At the cbosei
Novemosltioi
all phases of •k. He worked at the .line No. 9, and waB Df General Works until 14, when he look tho if Assistant Mine Fore- little over a month. He put in charge of the Eickhoff Coal Loading Conveyor, which is the only one of its kind in the United States. He is now returning. to India with his ac­quired knowledge and practicalerlese«with :Ich he hoi
ican Institute ot Mlnlog and Mein Iurgy. Ho was also national vic President of tbe Hlndüslan Assoz atiori of America whlle a Btudeu 
Hc is unaer a tlve-year contra« wlth the.Tatn iron and Steel Cor
elde either at Jherria' Rauee-
Dutt’s lengthy trip back bom« will be made by way of.I^ndon If he can get permission, he wil travel overland through France t< Marseilles, and there board thi Bhlp he would otherwise' get a London. Ho will then go through the Mediterranean and the Sue Canal, and thence to India. HI addreBS will' be. Camarpam. road ChlOBurah, Bengal, India.’ J •Dutt became quite attached .t Carnegie, as was evidenced by hi conversation. In fact, he Is plar nlng to 1 inaugurate a Cimegl Clan In India, a plan which seem rather fanciful.' but which nevei theless EV possible ot reallzatjoi
within a radius ot 60 mites of th« place where he wl)l he employed. It EV hia plan to organize these
GENERALITIES
him <child, said, “Bo:i party when he
iy Razors Seem 
Sharper with Williams
W
HEN you lather up with Williams Shaving 
Cream you do. a real job of beard-softening.
For Williams lather is saturated with moisture — 
moisture which soaks the stubble so soft that razors yaXghde through. That*«, why there.’s no razor“pulT* 
with Williams, why all razors seem sharper. In 35c 
and 50c tubes at all dealers«
Williams Shaving Cream
irgh boy and a graduifrom
:h 16 and 17, the fe&tu ion will be the marvelous dog. Rln*TIn-TIn, with a great human cast in “Hills ot Kentucky.” Fri­day and Saturday, March 18 and 19. will be the brilliant comedy ima, "An Affair of the Follies,'’ which Lloyd > Hughes. BlUle ve and Lewie Stone are the principals. On the. stage through­out the week will be the Gay. White Way Revue, an elaborate musical production which pre­sents a company ot eight men and two charming young women. Mon­day and- Tuesday. M&rch 21 and 22. will bring “Held by the I*w.” interpretation offamépoakiiii
Of turning out pictures that hit high standard of excellence, sne better, however, in the whole Rln-Tin-TIn repertoire than "Hills Centucky.” The story Is an adaptation ot Dorothy BTD-The Unt¦ned Hes:’s tale, Tho Ridgescene Is laid In th<Mountains mountaineers', are being driven to desperation through starvation. A puppy, played by one of Rln-Tin- Tln’a own Pups, is kicked out his- home: He grows upln'the woods
The Grey Ghost.” nountain. hamlet e chool teacher with crippled brother. The little boy, knowing the fear that fills
The suicides can but the generallzatioi have generated are
by "authorities!” philosophy, love ' cholastlc work.
thé study of airs, fallui atheistic teachingIn colleges, degeneracy of modern youth and so on ad nauseam. Even
suicides by single theories.The fact that none of tiie gen­eralizes could know the real facts of every particular case, or that few knew the real-facte in'any one case, was not of the slightest The possibility thathindrance,lulddes haddifferent cause, it It occurred to the ready analysts, was barred'by the Union of Amalgamated Gener- allzers as,illegal. That the causes of the suicides of these students might not have the slightest con* lolleges or thingsscholasticiven considered
a girl fehlcti the]
this dreaded beast one lay. And boy and beast become, friends. It 
Is a . friendship, .that leads to thrilling consequences that1 are tangled up with 'the' love story of the- school' teacher 'ànd two broth­ers, who . Uve In , the village. Among the excellent human play­ers In thè cast are JaBon Robards, Dorothy Dwan. Tom Santschi and Billy Kent Shaeffer. 'Lloyd Huehes. Billie Dove and Lewis Stone have-splendid roles In the unusual- and - entertaining comedy • drama. “An Affair of the
Mug: "Look-aJ woman Is la." - Jug: ¦ ¦•Is- thai thought .lit : WSJ
Athenaeucp-
the.condition that
What we are striving to point out la the unadulterated asslnlnlty of the generalizations made in this particular instance, and of ' the generalizations... of re-typlcal. - Is It any the public conception n is often limited lb two picturea; an Irresponsible •young animal bounded on all sides by. a racoon coat, or a quarter-• bake'd member of the intelllgensla who.spouts abstractions:'The sorriest aspect:.of the matter Is the tendency of some college professors to generalize, w(th>-lit­tle more basis than in the Illustra­tion given above, on the current illege generation. That most of these generalizations concern de­merits rather than merits does not help much. We should like to point out In passing that It has been our experience that most- of the undergraduates who Inspire these generalizations - think they are true—about the Test of the students.
.The greatest curiosity In ' the forld to some people is- thi couple tiat has lived together Tong enough 0 celebrate a golden wedding an- ilveraarv. • . . ¦ i
what It's all about, who who needs at least g B In tho course. The silent bird who might,have sonw- thlng worth -svblle tô aay but who keeps tbls something-bidden. Tho collegian who' haan’t read that far In.the text and attempts to,stage
a filibuster and- throw tjie class off- the track. The deadly serious young radical who. knows only that he’s radical. . The equally serious young conservative who believesproteici. No gray.—rOblo Sta
Chaf¿e to the S
cuss of sonaos 
mxsúuiWEST^ÄUNIOM .
NO. OkSHORCHQ
OCTirTTEB 
IBGNT MESSAGE 
iflSMT inraHARVEYWIT
HIWB9HB eanLTOH. romwwf CEonoE W. B. ATWk»jaR»Tv»«^TOiD«MT
MmsMtmiaX sRa tb* cm a} ttntoi <tiOTHERWISE im MS WILL BS mnSUTTEDfuiMWTEmeew
fesSME1
TTHE FTIEO
Scsd the foSmvios nit ssblect to the tenna 00 back hereof, ^
OABHEEL 0 WESSSS'AUEB
CABHEGIE IHST OF TECHDOIOGY'7
PITTSBUSOH PA
HHY TOT DISP0SS OF ONE ’O? XIFE3" MOST DIFFICULT PB0BLE1E BY 
ADOPTIITS BLTJK BOAS JJOVf AS YODH FATOHITE ABB BEGU1AB PIPEfTOBACCO 
AUD THEH HATE MOHE TIME FOB AIL^YOUS OTHER. PROBLEMS 
WEATIIS THE USE OF CHAH&IN5 AHD EKPEHntEHTUlO WHEH BLUE BOAB’
.IS SO,VASTLY SDPEHIOB TO OTHER 
BHAHDS.THATJO’AHfflJltEHT IS1 
0HE PIPEFUL WILL’
One man fells another
He harnesses words to help sell electricity
e. 1.. ANDRnn Prrick has bccome
the patron saint ofmerchamiising and
advertising as well.;
. Andrew liked cngireering and had an
excellent record in hiswork. But even in
his high school days, he'had been interested
in writing. _ And thainterest grew as
be wrdtc.ror the annu1, was successively
editorand businessmangerotthe Wisconsin
Engineer, and was a(ivcrlising n,a„aEc,
of the Engineers' Famos Minstril Show.'
A:vhat college men want to kt, 
t of 27l Tbe question it 
red iy the 'atcomplisbm
of cthttoith simitar
*nd like opportunities. 1 
ene of a jerUs of advtrtiu 
portraying the progress at 
inghouse of college graduo 
the campus some ficc—ei.
of.thc Weatipghousc bu$ii
6-hJvc been wider that
mb after berced'the 
For silonths.
ived bis degree fully. determine 
jsworás to hcip icll electricity.
he had das: 
Tree all af.< 
W««DghoU
1 (he
Ther
lerailroad advertising fisci
—io the great.tangle of «racks spread acr< 
the continent.' , So' he'applied, and w 
accepted, for a place in-the Wtesringhai 
Graduate Studenta* Courte» hoping so; 
day to: do railroad advertumg. I -
ig—then' waa' ' 
oon to browse through'the 
plant and learn those things ’ 
have - made him valuable in tbe * 
ion of Westinghouie advenuing. But 
getting ahead of the story« • 
drew left the educational department 
a requisition clerk handling requests- 
crature on Westinghouse iron», fan*. * 
-s. percolators. Here he got his first
lanager of the sales promo- 
the merchandising..sales 
ad. of the merchandising 
Iverming depitTment. and
ineering- graduates interested in.. 
krriting and advertising, Weiring-^- 
r* an>opport'unitv for realizing . 
10 the liill. - ' ‘ '
Westinghouse

---------------------------------------------------

i thit they can get on-
Shop, JenKlm
H. Bóyd Edwards, Rectoi
Student Vesper Se Sunday. 4:30 p. 'm'. Choir. Special Music.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
' Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital - - - $300,000.00
Surplus-----$300,000.00
Deposits Over , 
$5,000,000.00 j
thing Is typewritten.
y other portable. -Price ly $60,00. We also'have me bargains In used :Coro>
Cliff Restaurant
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Near Forbes 
Try our 6pedal.Lunches—40o
STUDENTS! ATTENTIONS Jon’t tend tables or scrub' floor
ourceld Be dignified and sue
r. All Inquiries, answer« ¦omptly;BRADFORD’ & CO.. INC. ST. JOSEPH, MICHIGAN
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK .D. WOODS
TAU BETA PI QUINT 
WINS FROM ALPHA 
TAU CAGERS, 26-23
BUTLEE’S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET ' We Deliver All Orders.J. O. BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7644-
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACE POR 
SNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
4618^2 FORBES,STREET
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH FOR YOUR DANCE?
Stsoratt’s TeaRoom
3710 FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9316
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M. STAUFT
Let’s -All Go To TheTECH
Barber Shop
For Our Hair Cuts 
CRAIG AND 
FORBES
PATRONIZE (I ADVERTISERS
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey.
Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
. . , red.AuSSsasssmer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
Yourself and Friends Are Invited toPAMCE
Every Saturday Evening at the New
Central Athletic Association
CLUB HOUSE, CRAIG ,& FILLMORE STS. 
Tommy Dixon’s “Sultan's of Tempo”
STANLEY-ROWLAND-CLARK’SSTEAND M A N O B
TOM MIX 
“Canyon of Light”
CHAPLIN 
“Shoidder Arms” 
“ALASKAN ADVENTURES”
Monday ahd Tuesday
“Winners ot the 
Wilderness” 
TIM McCOY
Baaed on/'Braddock’o .Defeat-'
“An AHair of the Follies” 
Lewis Stone Billie Dove;
CHASUE CHAPLIN 
“Shoulder Arms” 
“ALASKAN ADVENTUHES”
RICHARD blX
“Paradise For Two”
GET YOU ft- STU PENT1 TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE1
SCHENLEY
THEATER «
- HARRY DAVIS, General Manager. Continuous 2 to 11 P. M. .. Direction Stanley Company of America.'
: :Moat, Beautiful Neighborhood theater in. Pittsburgh. 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MARCH'16 AND 17Riin^Titt-Tin
with DOROTHY DWA>). JASON ROBAt)DS, THOMAS SANTSCHI and RIN-TIN-T1N,. JR.. in“mils o£ Kentucky”
M15E927 ec9 t2do592BA b25UC ya 2c9 yi“An Affair of the Follies”
• with LLOYD HUGHES, BILLIE OOVE, LEWIS,STONE .
ON THE STAGE ! ~~ ' ALL WEEKThe Gay White Way Revue
Brilliant Colorful Novel and Popular^Ensemble with Eight Artist* of Sliiglng, Dancing bpd ln«trumen»il.Mu*lc. • . . . 
MONDAY ANO TUESDAY, MARCH 21 AND 22“Held By The Law”
Bayard VelUer1« celebrated pi•*. with >•
only* -qq.•oWiq.am sS.h•
!Kt year was favorably received by all who a>n this year. Whltey played the star role > highly deserving of the honor accorded ht ardest, but .was always a gentleman. He able leader last year, when he captained
VARSITY AND PLEBE track candidal est during tbe past week. The runners a: Park cros6-country course nightly, while
ing world by doing the quai The intramural, meet c coach can get a line on his roa
PLEBES WHO ARE NOT athletics have unlimited oppoi sports by way of the managei scholastic track meet need ae< prevent any ptebe^vlth a spark
iroved himself to be 
Hun), who, although
aria) before .the Peit lo order tliat tbe
The highly touted Alpha Tau 
team I fell last Friday before the. terrific onslaughts of the long ehot artists representing Tau Beta Pi, in a whirlwind battle In the gyi 
Alpha'Tau. National Industrie?, scholastic honory, presented var­sity Captain-elect While at a for­ward, and his work was brilliant, matched only by that dr Ray Hurd, i varsity captain ' during the past season, who performed at o | for tbe Tau Beta PI outfit, i jsentlng the National Engineering I honor society.
fp.lrly good.sldering t
[*A PI won the much heralded basket ball game from st Friday afternoon. The score wue 26 to 23. The Tau sue a challenge to Alpha Tau for competition EY any rt, from checkers to mountain climbing, is It that Tau Bela Pi will shortly be challenged by tlio am of the dishonor society, a select group r on' ~ " ’s could join the
LES ENFANTS TERRIBLES
(The Pitl Weekly).
Some one has facetiously re- 
larked that a graduate instructor 
the lowest form of human life, 
rhile we do not subscribe to this 
Blief, we feel that with the en- rmous increaso of the student body at Pitt and, as a concomitant this increase, the evolution of ¦. graduate student as an in- uclor, a real problem has arisen, ne waB when a graduate assist- . was a sleepy looking individual
nth the head nd at night wi iround feeble 1
; depart
Then the fun begins. The 3
BuL when he c times out or t Jeerable flop.
Such occurrem 5r the. student a
- as fac- 
ad both
the subject and does his work as Ltcr or routine. The Assistant loses the zest which is Jp much to
VARSITY WINS SCHOOL 
RIFLE .CHAMPIONSHIP
defeatedTile varsity rifle the plebes and the women in tt triangle match whicli ended . loi Saturday. The Irst half of tb match which* was fired thé wee before last ' found tho varsity In the lead with 794 points with the plebes und women following cl behind with 791 and 790 points spectivcly. The second half of the match, last week, put the woxnei la the lead with 793 points whlii the varsity scored 792, and tho plebes dropped to 765. (Thus th< women's total score Ja but threei below i the v s total is 10 i•sitys
HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL
•slty Dally. Kansan).
have frequuently dlspalred of elastic Qualities. But. after ¡Ing through the- harrowing 9 of first semester finals and ordeal of secoDd semester ad- ments. to learn of a .72-year- man wiLIt white beard and
ntloi
finals, takes either an unlimited it oC nerve or an abject Ig- ce of modern university-life, 
doubt the School of Educa- fill shake its head, collective­ly, and remark how difficult it Is) the foö1 of the
6 generation. From the amount type of competition much of r student tntelllgensia presents Is likely that , the patriarch at Butler will be able .to give a fair it• of himself.' V
Morgantown, W. Va. — mEAuAsXH The three students of the College of Engineering, who were. Indefi­nitely suspended for alleged com­plicity In the theft of .examination questions from the office of Pro­fessor L. L. Amldon, of the Uni­versity of West Virginia, arerback in' the university, according to President Frank B. T,rotter.. .President Trotter did not-explain the conditions under which tbe men - were readmitted, except to say th£t “everything is satisfac-
An Irishman, à Jew and a man. entered a saloon and' < de red. There were thre circling about; the. , room. - dropped in each glass.^The lfiehmaD poured; his
e’ average university, co-ed at SUte*unlyere!t£. baB aa aver age of four dates*a week. Out of, 100 cases' examined, only six .'‘house.-. dates’’ were recorded.— ,OhIo State'L&Dtern..
been mode yet in regard tt party, but it will probubly be e home' of a member of elthe: plebes or the -women's'team.The results of the match ar ilst. wk. 2d. wk! Varsltv ...........794 792 1566
» eight high individual scores jcond week of match:•slty— Sweadner 100, Bayne Bronson 100. A. M. Flsheir 9D,
Women—A. Bright 100, H. Bright 100, Keller 100. Shapiro 100. Whit, hill 99, Dawson 98, Sheppard 9! O'Donnell 96. 'Plebes—Martin 100, Kasehkgc.. 99. Scott 96, Stine 98, StaffonY 98, Lindsay 98, Llppert 96.Only the eight high scores of each team were counted each week.During the week ending March 6. the plebe rifle team defeated Delaware University Freshmen, and Eastern H. S.. D. C.. but were defeated by Culver Military Acad­emy. This was the first four po­sition match for tiie plebes, and Ihey made a very good showing. Their score was only six points behind, that of the Carnegie Var-L this 3
1,897.: Car­iente: Kasehagon 388, Scott 376, Llppert 362. -Stafford 360, Newton 17. Total 1,844.The defeat by Culver was hilt ie second defeat for the Plebe am this year,', and thts was not together unexpected, because of ulver's high standing. In military
The varsity rifle team contln- is to. lend Its league in the N. R. . matches. The Nyssa rifle club as defeated last week by the un- -en score of l,40i7 to UHÛ. Fifteen 
hundred was the possible score, .tch was flTed during the ding March 4. The var- e woft four matches and st none in the N. R. A. League.iager Sweadner - displaced Campbell as high scorer, by mail­ing 265 points out of a possible 
300. ' /The lioetips ahd scores were: ' Carnogie:1. Sweadner ..................... 2852. Campbell .........................2843! Bronson ........................ 2804. Bayne ..........:................ 2795. Fisher, G. W.................. 279
Total :
Firing trophy match which pleted by April 15.Last week the varsity fired a ague match with Lebanon Valley, it no reports have been received 
yet.
matches during March S. and won them both. The Carnegie Tech score was 495 for highest out of ten. Mich­igan Stato College came. danger- lusly close with 494 and the Uni­versity :;of Wyoming sent In a core of 483. The match Was flTed a prone position, the highest pos­sible score-being 600.This week the girls . have a atcb with the University of Kan- le ' and the week following one with the- University of .Maryland. Their laet match of the season ; le
egun for the Hcarst
v•g.qh goC-ql rg-ae ET •AT Ws E.qiq.goCe BrSBMember of the Board of Lectureship. of The Mothef Chürçh. The,
arq LIH.SE S• EW-CSg..m SoiSaqC aW gaaqoC aDNn EGUnV*RYO EUG RG EFGn oRUT dT 6T 9. 13T14 15
sides, and-tho flfty or more’ spectators stayed until the end.
Meredith and Mueller also per formed well for Alpha Tau, while Kolb and Nelbel did some nifty 
shpotlng for Ihe Tau/Bel’s. Lineup: 1Tau Beta PI—26.
I lure! 2. Peck. Nelbel 4, White 6'. Moredlth, Burnside. McMilllon.Foul6—Tau Beta, PI, 2 out of 5; Alpha Tau. 1 out of 4 •
? *:• *:• *:• •:* ? * * ?•> NOTICE—PLEBES1 *
Plebe managers are want-* •:* eil for the Interscholastlc * -> track meet. This is one' of ? * the best activities on the*
ï Negro. Is very hope-non in almost every college asd university in tbe land. .These good will gatherings fos­tered by the educational. iDstltu-
llona lend hope that some day In ternatlonal good wlU and mutual understanding . between nations actually will eilsL,
GOOD WILL 
(Ohio Stnte Lantern).
At Earlbnm college in Rlch- lond, Ind., a Quaker institution. :udent groupa have pooled their
will translatethe lectures for him. When- he returns to Earlhnm ho will try to Interpret. Oriental life-to his fel­low students.Out on the coast Inst week tho University of Washington spon­sored a Pan-Pacific student con­ference on the campus. Repre­sentatives of China, Ja^an, Korea. India, the Philippines and several »ther countries gathered and dis­eased sociological and economical ibletns' of, foreign- developmeuLThe>nfer-the feel- of the white race towards the Orientals Is akin to that of South-
Eyerymin0
going' 
all rii
THAT’S the way P. A. talks to you ¡n the bowl 
of a pipe. This great? national gloom-chaser 
stabs the darkest clouds v/ith ,a ray of sunshine. 
Buy a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today and 
see.- Tamp a load of this friendly tobacco into 
your jimmy-pipe and light up.
Cool as a sub-cellar. Sweet as the breath of 
fresh-cut violets. Fragrant in the tin. and fra­
grant as you smoke it. Never a fongue-bite or 
a throat-parch. So mild you can hit it up from 
sun-up to sun-down, yet with a body that satisfies 
completely...
There’s more philosophy in a pipe-load of 
P. A. than in the average Doctor’s thesis. No 
matter what brand you are smoking, now, you 
don’t know how much your jimmy-pipe can 
mean to you until you pack it with good old 
Prince Albert. Get started now.
$9*cou ld,u9b
—no other tobáceo is ìikè itiI
,TIM1CEN^ BEARIM3S
Railroad trains running on Timken Beanngs represent 
the most significant development in the history of friction 
elimination. When you realize that Timken-equipped 
trains can be started with only one-eighth oi the power 
formerly needed, and that the old hot box dangers are 
gone, you begin to sense the meaning of this latest 
Timken achievement. -
For a long time Timken has been approaching this 
climax. Timken Tapered Roller Beanngs have become 
universal m motor vehicles. They have swept industry, 
being used in machinery of every type, sponsored1 by the 
most highly reputed engineering institutions. In Trans- 
. portation, Manufacture, Mining, and Agriculture 
Timken Beanngs identify the most modern designs of 
the most progressive equipment manufacturers.
It is certain that engineers of every class will beincreas-, 
ingly concerned with the greater mechanical endurance 
and operating economies made.possible by Timken 
Tapered Roller Beanngs. - -
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING CO.. CANTON, OHIO
' Eony Engìrieériìig DepàrtnieHt.ihotiid liqye thc highlyinformative Timken Engineennz JournaJ—ilO . 
page's brvaAly covering moaern bearing 
Faculty..members m 
t, cqpy'Mponrequest'. ;;

---------------------------------------------------

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ............. Merrill HolUnflbeadManaging Editor..........'.,.,.,.,..... ..Sam WeUNews'Editor..;.................................Francis KolbAt&letic^dltor,............  .Frededcfc,D..Woods
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
EUenor Tsllmadge Robert M. Pew *Raesell r.EEEYn 5alph HitchcockHarold Jacobsoi Barto GrlfBss Eugeno ScanlonfiW. Bernard
i JUNIOR EDITORS .Meredith: ¦¿St amp ' "Milton CohenFenton Flan Jean Roy
ALUMNI EDITORS ;Margaret Russell ¦ * Herbert Grau
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
. Florence McLaughlin • . Helen ReedJosephine -ClarkJohn Schneider 
REPORTERS Stewart Raleton Bob Young Clyde Park
William McNeil Helen Wbllehill W. W. Hay Katharine O’Donnell J. Carpe S. FiegenbaumThomas Llppert
Business Manager. • Circulation Manager.
BUSINESS STAFF
Q. yi. Brabmst J. R. Brown A. Teplita w » *»-—»•-C. E. BlasB G. C. Har&isoa
H. L. Marshall
one o! the ‘‘new' 
school” In American literature: a echcol In which, "ae one would ex­pect, most of the members are it .Is becausedidbegin.'rittobooks until be was 40..that he still able;;to belong- with young men. He waited a long while be­fore be gave shape to his Ideas; but while be walled new things were happening, new ideas were JlndJng expression, and old forces working underpeath were begin-» the tface ot things Hiscted, and when be published his first book in 1916, it was not the kind of book it would bare been it It had been written In 1900.Like most men who put thoughts into printed still repealing .the pressed and clarified In that book. Tbeso one essentlol iact f is—the fact that l frying to find a me satisfaction in Ilte b
/orda, he deas he <
u- things in ortjer to eon- ¦pie that-be is cot queer; .Wash 'Williams, the hideous, ape- man, soft of voice and delicate lenslbllltles; Helen- White, daughter ot the town banker. In George Willard; Seth Richmond, the boy who is unable giggle; Mr. Hartman, the minis- r, who suffers temptation • and nmiArs it because another con- the tight- . teacher, .who is 
rept by fl<
listless, dlsai Jesse Bently. come down oUtfew of the clÜZÉ of Wineeburg, Oh
and Joplin Chlppew;>, and Frangin, 
,nd Battle Creek. They
burgh, and HanniUi and Clarksville, 
Falls,
CbondarB, 18r3thl:J0. Paper mado dp Friday, 12i3D-6i0O. > la««« pabllcatW 1Ö the MCOeedJn* Tneidar, nan Item*
AN INDUSTRIES’ VIEWPOINT
cd by-scvcrul years, ’ rçhile theoretically very) 
good, falls short of the actual requirements by 
à considerable margin. Longer courses would 
mean more expensive courses, a smaller group 
of students, and all to what purpose! ' Mainly 
to make sure that those who are able to go 
through the institution be subjected to a liber­
alizing; influence such as the university
Our editor’s,comments upon the weaknesses ' posed to foster. And thus dreams the idealist, 
and inherent flaws of our campus life, have ot will the faults of our present system be recog-
least given some food for thought, if not for sized, ferreted'out and eliminated, and truth,
contest. The criticism addressed under' the justice and liberality will reign supreme. Alas
name of “Carnegie Tech” if considered in its he has overlooked the foct that the dissemina-
entirety can hardly be colled a criticism of our tion of knowledge and truth depends to a very
TXXT school, but might be considered a criticism large extent upon the general level of educa-
of our present social and economic organiza- tion of u people, rather thou the high points
tion. Certainly this is an age of materialism, reached by a few individuals. There comes to
deplorable as it may seem, and to criticise my mind a picture of a balance with a great
Carnegie Tech for following the general trend, number of people on one side of it who have
if such be the case, is not entirely justifiable, partaken of d 'measure of the liberal .education
To. those who would .set up our alma muter as offered by our colleges as part of a four-year
an island of idealism in the sea of materialism, course, and on the other side a much smaller
let me say that we cannot spend all of our days group that have been given a more complete
on the island, but must comc out onto the scaf education, and have been in contact with the
of life experience, and fight our battles in the liberalizing influences of the university for six
struggle for existence.- It is at that time that or seven years. The_problcm lies'in deciding> heavilywhich condition of affairs weighs 
in the matter of worldly influence, 
seem that the surest way to achieve real and 
lasting progress in education lies in reaching a 
large group, and'any change in our present 
system which would reduce the size of the 
ould lessen its effect upon the-world at
the uncompromising idealist encounters diffi­
culty, and usually gives up in despair after he 
sees that his feeble influence is but chaff before 
the mighty wind of actuality. Par better for 
him to realize at the outset that th'cre must be a 
reconciliation between the ideal and the actu­
ality, and that real progress can only be 
achieved through gradual chauge. As for that large.
"eternal sense of the fitness of thTngs,” it is to Carnegie is n comparatively young school, 
be hoped that ou^ institution may never get to ^unhampered by dogmatic precedents, and is ac- 
the point where such a feeling is manifested» tually in the stage of development. The many 
because it is certain that decadence follows attempts to render service through the media 
close upon its heels. ' ; of night; courses, part time courses, specialized
Oa-the campus there is a very noticeable lack research, conferences, and the presentation of 
of understanding or appreciation betweed the lecturers arc all inc^eations of a d 
students.of lhc various schools as to jnst what widen the scopc and influence of the 
each is doing—a. lack of real appreciation of tion, and increase the number of people that 
the problems or a knowledge of the accomplish-, are benfited by its existence. Although Gar­
ments that have been recorded. The only rem- ncgie Tech may not seem to be the fulfilment 
e3y suggested’for this condition, is -a complete of the ideal, let as appreciate, in a measuri 
subjugation of the individual ego, and a dcvel- least, that she is making a real and sizeable 
opment of the willingness to recognize merit contribution to the intellectual life of tl ' 
Tegardlcss of its location or origin. community. •
The suggestion that the courscs be lengthen-___________________________'______S. A. McM-
admission
*1.80.For tbe.<
(Continued From Page One) 
compaalat for two years, and di­
rector of the Kiltie Quartet,- tor 
' thé same length of time. Scott is 
a member of the Clef Club and a 
pledge to the Sigma Phi Epsilon 
fraternity.
The committee announces 'that 
the concert. while brief, will be ex­
ceedingly entertaining. The pro­gram begins at elght-fliteen o’clock and concludes before ten.
The hicharge of Rj S. Boyd, chali R. Von Endo and '* Sidney Gould Warner. This committee Is spend­ing much time, effort and money In the.preparation of a dance that approval.of
tend both events a omblnatlon ticket has been pro- Ided, the price otwhlcb Is $3.00. This ticket entitles, the holder "to seats at the home concert and
(Continued From Page One.) gratis to anyone desiring then They may be had by application the Chinese Students' Club o irnegle Tech.
the icriticsdance win begin tThe>:30 s
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring one: Begin now to acquire those <
An account with the Mellon U;
splendid start Persistent sa1
the d&niwill J
tbe dan<in the
DEAN GREEN BACK
BLACK FLAMINGO 
INÍHEATERMAR.21
Mystery melodrnmi, the type tiat excruciates one's senses to the point of goose plmpleB, will be be next production of the-Drama lepartment. For any one relishes lie oia hokum ground up Into hash md spiced with much mystery, "The Bl)t dleb I• theon March 21. i tlnulng for a week.
h. which is often a f a delicious repast, play .fulfills somewhat the si
slgbtedly, and sometimes, when s strayed off too far or whon he Is very ditn-slghted Indeed, that search becomes a mad, ter­rible groping, It is of the people vho grope that Anderson writes.In "Wineaburg. Ohio." those peo- >le are. as he calls them, gro- eeques. ''They are people who lave followed a truth, but as soon is they have modeled their lives ipon this truth they have become 
irot96ques, and tholr truth a false­hood. Wing Blddlebaum, ibe strange old fellow with slender, restless hands; Elmer Cowley) the ally Introverted i youth who
mis:It.• whowrote this play, ex 
worn by the dram?
this play is replete with
tlons, black
amotions. Needle» onic as its-effect >’;N BACK be more thanFROM CONVENTION I children rama
' (continued fTom Fage One) ton College, Northfleld, Minnesota. Miss White spoke of the honor, the tutorial, and the segregation fea-
dutles of life. In obtaining the de­sired response on the part of every girl, she stressed the study of the value ot the girl who Is outstanding Ih this respect in her college. Miss Green regarded the situation of the acceptance of responsibility from the standpoint of the individual of society. She pointed out that to fit in harmony with her later duties,
indivigirl n ual ’t be-1
u the. pamphlet, the editors havn -------------d to portray the cause of the Istic requlremen ¿ . Chlua. Among the many Important duty c ¡stlons that are convincingly i was to know eacn ' iwered arc: Why do the Chi- as a particular Indie% fight? What are the alma the social standpoim and purposes of the opposlug that the needs of.s do thjs Chinese de- consldei
che
partaient ot Languages. Mr. Jai ley and Mr. Wallace arc co-ope itlng In making the play as my
Drama Class Attends 
Carnegie Tech Play
HARVEY WHITE.CHOSEN TO CAP­TAIN CAGE TEAM
(Continued From Page One.) 
icond team so that the deserving lat were not mentioned on the rst team might be added.. F...... .Kowallla, Pitt.yF........Rubensteln, C. C. N. Y..Glllluman, Grove City.. O.____;.Blade. W. Va.i. G........Van Nelda, Penn State.
\7ENUS YEENOLSBuy ftv* twt unto lad
J öKäi-Ä. *08
• rua«;’«» ntAo..».
(Continued from. Page One) ment has gore iu chemical plai construction will be discussed by Mr. Carter, tbe engineer for th< Linde Air .Products Gompauy, wh< hae .liad; charge of this : particular application of oxy-acetylene weld- 'cjy pres I-
WOMEN CAUGHT
padlocked, and leashed, were- recently paraded In front'Of the main .building at erelty. by the upper-
\claasmei
if 'you wish to lose^your good 
name liave,.lt engr*ve4 bandle of your - umbrella. ¦
ance of -The Dai sent« by the
lys at 9 o’clock (In lh to study and discus of modern dTama, Jon Pittsburgh last Saturda ind witnessed a pevforn .f Life” pr«
fouudly. Here was n ary capital to be expl little stories'; here ai fully tlnkered-up “plot hitchec
He’s The Center of Attraction!
He’s up-to-date.He’e broadminded. yHe’s good looking and Is always dressed in th height of fssblon. >
How does be do it, ,
Only by renting from— 'Whittington Dress Suit Co.
«002-3^ JENKINS, ARCADEDay Phone....................... ......................Gr*nt 260Night Phone..................................Lafayette 4791-1
Edgeworth
smoidng, 
is a part 
of college 
education
Rather 
bits of converse men and women It Is as though we were a group ol 
loungers clusteredIn thelistening while one earnest talks. The other Inhabitants busy lighting their lamps, reai
t. Bane.Monkey :Seybold .......*....The Fraternlt
r the plebea. How
Willson promise
I. M. GUILD TO
HOLD CARNIVALFRIDAY NIGHT
(Continued From Pact» Oni lectrlcal fraternity is taking t the lighting fixtures for
Carnival, not the Gambol Guilds. The Guild needs y Friday
filletThe nomiwMaybelle Donaldson, Jeai and Katherine Lowe. is elected men in Industries inc “Red” Allen, Athletic Council resentative; John McNair,'! urtir of the Junior Classjand
wlllght has thlàgB
forget oil about newspapers and mppers and beds, and we do not eave until he has, told us all his torles.A. E. FISHER.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OPENS NEW GALLERIES CITS OWN PAINTINGS
(Continued rrom Page One)' 
Dance.” which was presented to the Institute by Miss Helen . C. Frick, has found a permanent place on' lie wall. "Under the Umbrel­la” by Johanna K. W. Hailmfin pre­sented by the Garden Club of Alle­gheny County Is/in this group alsi Here also is being 9hown "Afts tho Bath” by Romagnoli. which is lent by Edgar Kaufmanu. "The Beach” and Swampscolt' tels by Maurice Prendei on temporary' exhibition.
8TH C. W. SHOWTO SE HELO ATNIXON THEATER
CLOTHES
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY- 
STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOB DISTINGUISHES
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
Cult» and Topooat®
«40, *45, *80 '
WlBV SPECIAL APPÚSMTMENT 1 
OUR STOKE IS THE
ouse
OP PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
« overcoats tailored by.Charter House • 
will earn your most sincere liking.
MORRIS'S
Permanent Display Rooms 
Suite 270 Webster Hall
! ClacSec«
In the tualn, the
LECTURE SERIESON CONCRETE TOBEGIN NEXT WEE*
(Continued from Page One) 
res. High early strength cor ete. Display of available Publ
ingl* popular among Engin------ UBJIlB
Building Material men. Inspectors, college. Architects, testing Engineefa ¦
slonism. In most cases It was dis­covered that tbe highbrow, and formidable sounding impression­ism was entertaining as well'ns instructive. “The Danco of Life” combined the conventional stage settings with the impressionistic, thus offering a contract to thè stu­dents that cannot be gained from
Washington and Jefferson
xchltects, testing Engineers and students aod faculty members is lontractoi-e. It la expected. that eur© to be present at every'produc-his year’ program will be a great­er success than, that of last year. Everyone. Interested Is cordially invited to attend these lectures.
ND WE BELIEVE ’EM
L (Daily Cardinal, Wisconsin).
waistline In aa
ve you a magnetic personality:" "You will enjoy, learning French ils.fascinating.new way.” "Government of the people, by ie. people and for the people!"
Dr. >iixfleld's claithe membei
aided the produ< let” In a body.
Theodore Vlchman, who. staged “The Danic of Life,” is directing the. production of tlie AVashlngt« Center of_the Drama League America. "So This Is London which Is to be presented some tlv In May At the Washtiigton Tlieator with a cast which Includes Pro­fessor »now 'and Bill Temple.PTom - Red and Black.” Wash­ington and Jefferson. <
According i’ made bythe Ohio State lantern, members of 17 rtdal sororities. 1H are engaged and five are mar rled.: Only^12 of-the 114 co-eds ve^r'diamond-rlngn.'all the others wearlog fraternity plai
Continued From Page One) it students, the report show Several depart
building construc capacity and have take additional i opening sight i'ZZ
' ARIZONA GIRL ,
r away Nebraska,'¦Neath the California skies.i my Oktahoma. sweetheart, With the Massachusetts eyes. '
She’s lived all her life in M
On a Mlasiselppi farm.'
We met one night In Soiith Cair- olina -t Near the Tesas border line.And-with tales of home in Int I won my'Utah girl divine.'
e’Il i
Till the day that
< old New Ham
. "He missed his calling” said angry passenger when, the train raller mademistake. — Indiana Dally Student.
s moçe ^alst the less speed-—
home without
Cfa the days of .buggies and A quarter of a century has
c/ puffed sleeves, a “thank you, changed all this. “Thank you,
^ M’arm” was an occasion of re- M’arms” are an occasion for
joicing on . the part of the youiig sometViing other tiian rejoicing-—
Don . Juan who flourished the broken springs rather than wed-
whip. The Gibson girl- by his side ™es are the result. Instead
probably protested vociferously of avoided, brict-pay.ed
against sue* pitfalls but, never- ^oads (many of ti,em the same)
"r . . , ,, ^ are sought out, for the present
S’ she undoubtedly regret, generation.knows that while 
ted the stretches of newly laid yoUrJVI’arm?” brought a:
brick, where all was smooth and temporary joy, lasting pleasure is
there were no bumps to encour- given, only by a well-paved and
age a laggard beau. permanent surface., )
NATIONAL PAVING BRICK MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION '• , ! ENOINEE'RS. rfuILpItfQ ( s-. ¦ CLEVELAND, OHIO'
VITRIFIED
PAY E M E N T 8
-- OUTLAST THE BONDI------
