The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 22, April 12, 1983
Jordan, Crecine chosen 
for new administration
time to teaching and research.
Berg will become a full-time proffessor of 
science and technology; he has received 
offers from GSIA, SUP A, and MC8, 
Although he was under no pressure to leave 
Warner Hall, explained Berg, he thought 
that Cyert needed an opportunity to reor­
ganize and bring in people with new ideas.
Senior Vice President Edward Schatz will 
retain his position but with a somewhat 
different direction. He will be spending 
more time with development activities.
The posiuon of senior vice president for 
academic affairs will entail major responsi­
bility for the educational policy, computers, 
planning and budgeting. The deans of 
continued on page 5
By PAULINE WENTartan Assistant News Editor
John P. Crecine, dean of H&SS, has been 
named senior vice president for academic 
affairs, and Angel Jordan, dean of CIT, has 
been named provost. President Richard M. 
Cyert made his announcement after spring 
break. According to Cyert, the two positions 
will be equal in rank, and each position will 
have clearly defined but separate dudes. 
Both appointments will be effective July 1.
Cyert re-evaluated and reorganized the 
management structure after recent depar­
tures in the administrative board. In addi­
tion to Van Horn leaving for Houston, 
Provost Daniel Berg has also decided to 
resign his posidon in order to devote moreANGEL JORDAN
eagan speaks in Pittsburgh;4000demonstrate outside
Waller comes to CMU
writing and to improve the literary studies English,linS to Pittsburgh Police, 4000 people protested Reagan’s policies Wednesday,

---------------------------------------------------

Unemployed need to raise consciousnes<
Two questions that should be asked by 
the unemployed, and anyone else inter­
ested in education or social planning, are: 
How is the U.S. going to implement the 
re-education of the unemployed here in 
Pittsburgh? And how can I get a voice in 
the decision over what kinds of re­
education will be taught?
President Reagan’s speech last Wednes­
day capped off a geyser of consciousness 
raising; so observed Marcia Gerick, a self- 
styled veteran of conferences, and longcon- 
cerned with the problem of 
unemployment. Gerick thought the 
National Conference on Dislocated 
Workers was primarily a strategy think- 
tank for people who must, under federal 
law, begin to implement the JTPA (Job 
Training Partnership Act) by October 1.
As prescribed by the JTPA, state and 
local government and business groups 
must begin the arduous task of discovering 
who deserves retraining and how best to do 
it. Unfortunately, the consciousness rais­
ing seemed limited to the Hilton. Outside 
in the driving rain, standing in the mud of 
Point Park Commons, the unemployed 
protestors seemed separated from the 
speeches and strategy sessions by more than 
orange ropes and wooden barricades.
Unemployment was the issue for most of 
the people there. However, it is an issue 
many understand from a personal view­
point: diminished pay checks and dimin­
ished hopes for re-employment, at least in 
the short run.
Yet the solidarity within the organiza­
tion representing the unemployed has 
problems that need to be worked out. They 
have failed to realize, or won’t admit, that a 
change in political climate does not mean a 
correlating change in the economic envir­
onment. The buzzword out of Washington 
is '‘structural” unemployment; in the 
trenches of the unemployed the word is: 
“Get out the vote.”
In remarks before the Dislocated 
Workers Conference, David Roderick, the
chairman of USS and the NAB, said 
system (meaning the free enterprise systa 
works, and it will be up to local g0vei 
ment and business to re-educate workers 
fill the new jobs it generates. Outside i 
observation was that things were nodift 
ent than under any other Republic 
president.
It’s funny, but few people are questio 
ing, out loud at least, the structure that 
caused part of the “structural unempl( 
ment” problem. Thanks to the “evil, 
scare” tactics of the past fifty years, the wo 
Socialism probably appears only in nigl 
mares, emblazoned on the red cheek 
hairy bear wielding a whip.
Even now PIC’s (Private Industry Con 
cils) are forming across the country. Th 
are the long arms that will create the kx 
re-education laws. And they seem woefu 
absent in the plans of the unemployed
It’s time to raise the consciousness oft 
working class. Talk is cheap, and ign< 
ance is deadly.
Student counselling
Nate offering advice to apartment dwellers
By Nate Solano
I, having run out of ideas, am now going 
to do a Lifestyle Section for The Tartan. 
This week, “Ransacked.”
I’m a junior at a small, western Pennsyl-/
 vania college and I never 
thought I’d be writing to you 
and you probably won’t print 
this because you most likely 
make up all of those letters yourself, but 
here’s my letter:
Dear Nate,
We live in one of those row houses on 
Beeler Ave. We were pretty happy there until 
we found out our lease wasn’t going to be 
renewed. Why, you may ask? Because our
neighbor, who is a true loser, and his wife, 
who sits at home all day eating chocolates 
and playing with their obnoxious dog, told 
our landlord that we smoke pot and make 
lots of noise. So we were p—ed off and 
decided to make lots more noise and slam 
the cellar door a lot and generally be 
assholes.
Well, we were having a good time doing 
this and all, but one day when we came 
home we went inside our dream home and it 
was ransackedVA Our wonderful next door 
neighbors must have done it. They didn’t 
steal anything, but they threw all the stuff 
off of the tables and just generally messed- 
up everything. For some reason, they
unplugged everything, even the Bausch 8c 
Lomb disinfecting unit. Now we are super 
extra mad and looking for revenge. We have 
some ideas, but we need more.
One thing we have done is to record the 
killing scene from Psycho over and over and 
over and..., then we play it in the middle of 
the night with the speakers against the wall 
and the back of the speakers covered up with 
blankets, so we don’t have to listen to it. We 
often turn it on at night when we are going 
out. Do you have any other ideas for a suita­
ble revenge tactic, because we need some 
more to truly drive those people insane.
Sincerely, 
Rob and Joe
Levelheaded defense policy needed
By Stuart Shapiro
It seems history does indeed repeat itself, 
even if it does so on the opposite side of the 
Adantic. If the supposed heart erf Ronald 
Reagan’s domestic program is the “new fed­
eralism,” then the foreign policy 
in vogue with the extremely 
vocal protesters in Western 
Europe, particularly in Britain 
and West Germany, must be considered the 
“new neutralism.”
The message most of these groups are 
sending to their respective governments 
would have warmed the heart of any of a 
very large nunber erf people in the United 
States prior to December 7,1941. What those 
in the United States wanted then, and what 
a not insignificant number in Western 
Europe want now, is simply to be left alone.
Much as Americans in the pre-World War
II era expressed a strong desire to remain 
aloof from the petty brawls and posturing of 
troublemakers across the Atlantic, so now 
do protesters in several of the former trouble­
makers vehemently denounce involvement 
in the potentially deadly quarrel between 
the United States and the Soviet Union.
Just leave us the hell alone, they cry. It’s a 
nice thought I suppose, but like a lot of 
other nice thoughts, it doesn’t have much to 
do with reality.
In this instance, reality consists of the 
most massive military machine in the world 
sitting right on their doorstep. Those who 
stridently call for unilateral nuclear disar- 
manent and an end to NATO seem to have 
convinced themselves if they just pretend 
nobody is home, no one will come calling. 
In some quarters, self-defense has appar­
ently become, if not criminally irresponsible 
in some bizarre fashion, tacky at the very 
least.
Unfortunately, when it comes to deter­
ring military aggression, refusing with great 
moral indignation to join the party does not 
necessarily prevent the party from coming to 
you. Sentiments of that sort fall into the 
same category as those which hold crime 
victims responsible for their victimization. 
Surely if we just don’t provoke the mugger 
down the street, he’ll be kind enough to 
leave us alone.
American contributions to the arms race 
and international tensions aside, and there 
are plenty of them to be sure, it is naive to 
believe the Soviet Union is simply a poor, 
misunderstood creature that is only defend­
ing itself from the militaristic bullies of 
NATO. It is foolish to contend the Soviets 
are guided by some master plan for world 
domination, but that hardly redeems Soviet 
motives and behavior.
The Soviets have rarely been hesitant to 
act in any manner they think they can get 
away with, no matter how intolerable such 
behavior is by any reasonable standard. Ask 
an Afghan, a Czech, or a Pole to comment 
on the benevolence of the Soviet Union.
No one enjoys worrying about nasty 
things like war, but virtuously crossing 
one’s fingers won’t make the possibility or 
the need to guard against it go away. The 
new neutralism isn’t a solution to Western 
Europe’s strategic fears and headaches, inso­
much as it is simply an escape from the 
reality of those problems. Mutual disarman- 
ent is one thing; pretending no threat exists 
is quite another. If the barbarians ever reach 
the gates, I hope they’ll at least be locked.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indnndual authors 
who are usually members of the I'nwersity commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
imfication. Xames will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan resenrs the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Dear Rob,
I can’t think of any good ideas, but I 
those bright kids (who were probably in 
top 75% of their high school graduati 
class) from CMU could think of some.
N
There you have it. A new contest hast* 
started. The “Help-Rob-and-JoeG 
Their-Revenge” contest. The winner wil 
invited to the 1812 Overture party (compl 
with live explosives) that will be i 
their apartment. Place reponses to theqi 
tion, “What should Rob and Joe do toth 
neighbors?” in the “Revenge Box ” at 
Skibo Information Desk.
HieTarta
Editor in Chief..............................Monica Ce
Managing Editor.........................Gregg Bos
Business Manager.........................Kathy Wi
News Editor............................Joanne Savi
Features Editor.........................Pauline Kn
Entertainment Editor....................^>usan ^
Sprats Editor.................................Je^ ^
Photography Editor.....................Steve Wire
Production Manager..............Carolyn Sp®
Ad Manager ...................................Bonnie 1
Typesetting Manager....................Patt* ^
Art Director...............................Michael SusJ
Contributing Editors....................Alice 1
Vince Gu 
Louise Cw
Assoc Ent Editor.........................JohnC2"
Assistant Business Mgr.................. I ara W
Assistant News Editors................Chris J0^
Pauli«'
Asst. Features Editor....................Monio &
Asst. Sports Editor....................................*
Asst Production Mgr.........................^eter
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Doug Bla^j 
Eissler, Esther Filderman, Andrew Gha>> 
Safier.
Copyright c 1983 by The Tartan. The ^it0^' 
reserves the right to withhold from pub ^ 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: • ^ 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-211 ,
address: Box 17, Schenlev Park, Pittsbingh 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

ood acceptable for 
vassover unavailable
us
ditor:
>lost letters written about Food Service 
al with the quality of the food. This letter, 
Dwcver, deals with the way in which Fbod 
enice treats its customers. , ¦ }
This past week was Passover, a high Jew- 
h holiday. Food Service showed their true 
Jors during this time: very little respect 
given to their customers who were 
bserving Passover.
\\\ Food Service did was put out matzoh 
uring meals (there were some meals where 
wasn’t put out and I had to ask for it), 
nfortunately, Food Service never attemp- 
*1 to find out what else is kosher for Pas- 
iver. People observing Passover are not 
.tricted to matzoh and can eat many com- 
0n foods, but no effort was made by Food 
ervice to learn what is allowed. Almost 
er\ main entree served during Passover 
mid not be eaten by someone observing 
holiday.
The students of the Jewish faith were very 
ppointed with Food Service. I made a 
implaint about this last year and was told 
assover would be handled much better this 
ar. However, there was no improvement.
The service this year was even worse 
ecause of Food Service’s Easter Brunch. 
Tiis meal was the height of Food Service’s 
srespect. First, why was there a special 
for Easter and not for Passover? Pas- 
iver is celebrated by having special meals 
first two nights of Passover (the Last 
upper was one of these special meals!) 
hile Easter meals have no traditional 
leaning.
Second, Easter being a family holiday, 
lost Christians that live fairly close to Pitts- 
urgh went home for Easter Sunday. I know 
no one who could afford to go home for 
eight days of Passover. And last, but not 
ast, at this Easter Brunch hardly anything 
-as kosher for Passover. There were six or 
¡ven cakes, but none were kosher for Pas- 
iver. There are mixes where you just add 
rater to make a Passover cake and there are 
any kosher desserts already made that can 
bought, but Food Service had no desserts 
osher for Passover.
Throughout this letter, I have been refer- 
g to “Food Service.” By this I mean the 
irectors of Food Service and not the 
mployees behind the counters in Kiltie 
¿fe. Most of these employees behind the 
•unters did their best to help the unsatisfied 
Corners. However, Rochelle Koch, a man- 
er in Kiltie, was the most inconsiderate
one of them all.
On the last day of Passover, there were 
two slices of matzoh left (and of course the 
three entrees were not kosher for Passover). 
My friend and I split one piece of matzoh for 
a very nutritious lunch! I went to speak to 
Ms. Koch to tell her. there was no matzoh 
left. She said she knew but there was none to 
be found oh campus. I informed her there 
was still one more meal left to the Passover 
holiday.
This little conversation took place at 
noon. When I arrived at dinner, I found no 
matzoh had been bought. Someone from 
Food Service could easily have gone out and 
bought a couple of boxes of matzoh from 
Giant Eagle or the Co-op store in Margaret 
Morrison Plaza right on campus, but Food 
Service showed how much they care for their 
Jewish customers. I would like to see what 
would happen if there was only meat and no 
fish on a Friday. Of course, this would never 
happen.
Thank you very much Food Service.
Mitchell Grey
Feel tired of rules? Try Brigham Young
By Paul Spillane
So you think we’ve got it bad? I just got a 
letter from home with this newspaper clip­
ping in it (my mother is great about cutting 
out useful articles), and all she wrote on the 
top of it was “Enjoy!” I did, and 
•jCT ' I thought students at “ThePro- 
fessional Choice” might get a 
charge out of it, too. The colum­
nist was quoting the Code of Honor at that 
great liberal attitudes school, Brigham 
Young University in Utah. Each student 
there must sign a copy of the Code, and 
thereby swear that he or she:
“Has been living the law of chastity. 
This includes abstinence from all sex­
ual relations outside the bonds of 
marriage.
Has been observing the Word of Wis­
dom. This includes abstinence from 
alcoholic beverages, tobacco, tea and 
coffee.
Respects property rights. This 
includes refraining from shoplifting, 
concealment, damage or misuse of the 
property of others.
Has not been involved in drug abuse. 
This includes refraining from the pos­
session, use or distribution of any nar-
SO THIS IScm K\DVDO YOU THINK OF KT?
|csc|( l|( _e3iG3|(^
WÊmmmMmMmmMfsm
raf*®lT)( s I ojifIgI h!wrnmammmmmmMmm,
cotic or dangerous drug, except as 
prescribed by a licensed medical 
practitioner.
Will respect all personal rights. This 
includes not physically or verbally 
abusing any person; not engaging in 
conduct that threatens or endangers 
the health or safety of others; not 
obstructing or disrupting the study of 
others or the performance of official 
duties by university personnel.
Has been honest in all behavior. This 
includes not cheating, plagiarizing or 
knowingly giving false information.
Observes high standards of taste and 
decency. This includes refraining 
from disorderly, lewd, indecent or obs­
cene conduct and expression.
Will observe university standards of 
dress and grooming.”
These “standards of dress and grooming” 
are also quite unambiguously defined, and I 
have selected a few of the more representa­
tive examples:
“Our dress and grooming standards 
have been defined to create visual dif­
ferences in clothing worn by men and 
women. These important differences 
have their origin in God’s eternal plan 
for men and women.
For men, slacks, polished cottons or 
jeans with sweaters, sports shirts, ties,
sports coats and blazers are all accepta­
ble wear for attendance at classes.
Beards are not acceptable. Moust­
aches are not encouraged. ... Hair 
must be styled so as not to cover the 
ears and must be above the collar in 
the back.
For women, dresses, sweaters or 
blouses with skirts or culottes, or mod­
est pant suits or slacks — not to 
include jeans — are the only accepta­
ble wear for attendance to classes.
Dresses or skirts (or slits in dresses or 
skirts) above the knee, as well as the 
no-bra look, are immodest and there­
fore inappropriate.”
The code goes on to state that shoes must 
always be worn in public places, that men 
must wear shoes with socks, and that shorts 
are only allowed in gyms and dorm rooms.
Suddenly I just don’t feel as repressed. 
Doesn’t it make you glad you go to a private 
(non-religious) university? This school ain’t 
perfect, and may not allow sex on the cut, or 
beer bashes in Gray Matter, but we can still 
wear shorts to play ultimate or to bag some 
rays, and we can still have a beer (or two) 
with our Methods homework. Just some­
thing to think about next time we want to 
start bitchin’.
Paul Spillane is a freshman in H&SS and 
is a columnist for The Tartan.
Summer security for bikes
Editor:
Bicycle thefts on college campuses 
throughout the United States have been 
increasing steadily over the past several 
years. The CMU campus is not immune 
from this problem and we can expect the 
thefts to intensify during the spring and 
summer months.
Over the past few years the Can;: us 
Police Department has made a number of 
arrests for bicycle thefts and has been suc­
cessful in the prosecution of those arrested. 
Most of these thefts, however, are perpe­
trated by youthful offenders who do not 
seem deterred by arrest and Juvenile Court 
proceedings.
This being the case, it is important to 
stress those methods which you, the cyclist, 
can employ to help us in curbing this 
annoying and costly problem. Sergeant
Mary Suber and Investigator Frances Russ 
of the Campus Police Department have 
been working with this problem and sug­
gest that you (1) record and register the 
makeji .model and serial number of your 
bicycle with the Campus Police Depart­
ment; (2) utilize Operation ID for all of your 
valuables, including your bicycle; (3) use 
one of the new super locks currenty availa­
ble at the CMU Bookstore or local bike 
shop; (4) report suspicious persons imme­
diately to the Campus Police office.
Please help us in this endeavor and you 
will be helping the entire campus commun­
ity to deal with this growing problem. Feel 
free to contact Sergeant Suber or Investiga­
tor Russ for more information at extension 
2323 or stop in the office at 155 Baker Hall.
Sgt. Mary Suber 
and Investigator Francis Russ 
Campus Police
April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—April 12, 1983
Gourman report ranks CMU architecture first in nation
to secure and retain competent faculty
According to the Gourman Report, there 
are a large number of accredited institutions 
lacking in staff resources and other vital ele 
ments. The majority of these accredited 
institutions maintain their high standin 
because they are reluctant to relate to the 
public a truthful image.
The purpose of the Gourman Report is to 
evaluate the total structure, direction and 
performance of colleges and universities 
These comparative assessments are based on 
data gathered from questionnaires submit­
ted by these universities, reports and private 
investigations.
Pertinent data refers to: control and 
organization of the institution; total educa- 
tional programs offered and degrees con­
ferred; total number of non-departmental 
areas; age of institution and of individual 
disciplines, programs and divisions; basis 
and requirements for admission of students' 
number of students enrolled; teaching staff 
and teaching loads; physical facilities; finan­
ces; curricular content of the programs; and 
research.
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffmriter
The CMU architecture department is 
ranked first in the country', according to the 
third (1980) edition of The Gourman 
Report: A Rating of Undergraduate Pro­
grams on American and International Uni­
versities. Drama, engineering, applied 
math, and art were listed in the top 15, and 
the overall university was ranked 42.
A total of 232 United States undergradu­
ate programs were included in the Gour­
man Report. Scores ranged from 0 to 5, with 
institutions having scores in the 4.0 to 5.0 
range listed in rank order, institutions hav­
ing scores in the 3.5 to 3.9 and 3.0 to 3.4
ranges listed in alphabetical order, and insti­
tutions having scores below 3.0 not listed at 
all.
Of the programs listed, CMU had thirteen 
in the 4.0 to 5.0 range. The programs with 
their rankings and scores are as follows: 
architecture (1) 4.81; metallurgical engineer­
ing (7) 4.71; civil engineering (10) 4.64; 
drama (10) 4.65; materials engineering (10) 
4.46; applied math (11) 4.57; electrical engi­
neering (11) 4.59; mechanical engineering 
(11) 4.60; art (12) 4.45; chemical engineering 
(13) 4.43; physics (22) 4.30; chemistry (25) 
4.27; psychology^ (27) 4.21.
Economics was listed as one of eight in 
the 3.5 to 3.9 range, and mathematics was
one of fourteen in the 3.5 to 3.9 range. All 
other departments had scores lower than 3.0.
The administration was ranked 36 with a 
score of 4.14, while curriculum was ranked 
39 with a 4.20.
In the preface to the Gourman Report, 
Dr. Jack Gourman states that since the pub­
lication of the first edition (1967) and the 
second edition (1977) of his report “under­
graduate teaching is not as good as it could 
be in the USA colleges and universities and 
is showing continuing signs of deteriora­
tion from its present low position.” Gour­
man maintains that an institution is only as 
good as its faculty and that, therefore, the 
prime responsibility of the administration is
People representing all ages and issues attended the Reagan
Murphy wins award
; James Murphy, a second-year student
* CMU’s Graduate School of Industrial
Administration (GSIA). has lx-en via ted.* 
V' \ v B the 1983 ret ipient of the 1 lenry Ford II S(ho 
Ylffi > I lar Award.
Eight graduate business schools partiri-
i iJfll ‘¿«4 188 pate in the scholarship program, whuh 
awards $5,000 annually to one student from 
/SI eac^ Winners are selected on th
'iir •' basis of academic achievement and faiu!:\
Mid* ‘ lUiB recommendations made at the end of ifo
lli first year of business school.
Richard Ames, head of the North Amen 
photo by Steve Winawer can ¿ivision Qf Ford Motor Company, will
present the award.protest outside the Hilton last Wednesday.
Alpha Phi Omega
Kent D. Shaffer 
Memorial Scholarship
$200
open to anyone except 
pledges and brothers of A Phi 0
Applications available at Skibo Information Desk 
Due May 6, 1983
Another A Phi O Service
WHITE GOLD WIELDER
Book Three of The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant 
$14.95
Stephen R. Donaldson
The Sensational sequel to the fantasy phenomenon. The One Tree!
Since the #1 bestselling sales success of The One Tree, the demand for more 
Stephen R. Donaldson has grown even greater. No writer since J. R. R. Tolkien 
has so captured — and broadened — the audience for fantasy. Donaldson's 
trilogies of Thomas Covenant have gripped readers of all ages, both sexes and 
every taste. Now, with WHITE GOLD WIELDER, thei second chronicles of 
Covenant's adventures are complete. 1
After his failure on the Isle of the The One Tree, Thomas Covenant despaired 
of ever defeating Lord Foul. But then Linden Avery demanded that he must 
continue to fight.
And fight he did, returning to the Land to do what must be done —at any cost. 
A milstone in fantasy writing and an event in fantasy publishing.
•emu foccKstcre*
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5
reciñe, Jordan 
join Warner Hall
^tinued from page 1
«&SS and CFA will report to.the senior vice
president.
The position of provost will mostly be 
concerned with the research policy of the
school. The deans of GSIA, CIT, MSC, and 
jjpA will report to the provost.
In the new management structure, Cyert 
flill continue with his regular duties. How- 
ev,er> he plans “to spend 40 to 50%” of his 
time in fund raising. Cyert also stated that 
Crecine, Jordan, and he would “function as 
equals.” Cyert does not anticipate any major 
changes in policy direction due to the admi­
nistrative reorganization.
“I am extremely sorry to lose both [Van 
Horn and Berg]... both have done admira­
ble jobs and have contributed significantly,” 
immented Cyert.
He added, “I am pleased to have [Crecine 
and Jordan] joining us in the administra- 
ion . . . we will be able to make lots of 
irogress with that team.”
Outlook for business grads
photo by Scott Safier
DANIEL BERG
Competition for jobs is "intense
If
Salary offers for Camegie-Mellon Univer­
sity’s business school graduates remained 
virtually unchanged from last year’s level, 
according to Edward Mosier, director of 
placement at CMU’s Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration (GSIA).
“Basically, salary levels are about the 
same,” Mosier said. “To date, with 51 per­
cent of the class reporting one or more offers, 
the average is $32,585, with non-accounting 
offers at $33,217 and accounting (“Big 
Eight” firms) at $29,566. Last year’s average 
of reported offers was $32,454 with accepted
offers averaging $33,025.
“There’s no question that there are fewer 
jobs available and the competition for posi­
tions is intense. It’s definitely a buyer’s 
market.”
Mosier noted that companies making 
offers have been firm on their initial offers, 
allowing little room for negotiation. Many 
employers have also shortened the time for 
decisions after offers are made.
Ht’s much harder to get them to extend 
the offers for a longer period,” Mosier said. 
“There are too many good candidates
available.”
While most GSIA graduates will have 
accepted positions by mid-May, Mosier said 
it seems safe to assume that total job offers 
will be down by 15 percent by the end of the 
season.
“We see other trends developing-an 
increased number of jobs in marketing and 
banking and manufacturing,” Mosier said, 
adding that high technology and finance 
recruiting is about the same as last year and 
there has been a job decline in energy, chem­
icals and steel.
Imagination 
will win prizes 
at Carnival
The Spring Carnival committee is spon­
soring the third annual Spring Carnival 
T-Shirt Contest, and the “Most Adventurous 
Costume” contest.
Any CMU organization or group may 
enter a T-Shirt at Skibo Information Desk 
no later than 5 pm, Wednesday, April 20. 
Each entry must include the names of the 
designer and of the group and a phone 
number.
The entries, which are non-returnable, 
will be on display in the Skibo Grey Matter 
from 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm on Friday, April 22.
Judging will be based on originality, 
overall appearance, and pertinence to either 
the Carnival theme (Adventure), booth 
theme, buggy, or the group’s involvement 
in Carnival. The winner will be announced 
and prizes presented at the awards ceremony 
on Saturday, April 23 at Tech Stadium.
Two people, one female and one male, 
will be chosen as winners in the “Most 
Adventurous Costume” contest. Costumes 
should be limited only by imagination and 
good taste.
Entry blanks are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk and must be returned by 5 
pm, April 14. Voting will take place in the 
Skibo Grey Matter April 19 and 20.
The winners, at the opening ceremonies 
on April 21, will receive a prize package 
which includes a dining gift certificate, a 
Spring Carnival T-shirt, and free ride 
tickets.
For information on the T-shirt contest 
contact Barbara Lang at x2107; call Cathe­
rine Vodrey at X2107. for information on the 
costume contest.
C
ŸlZZA * #
; * 3415 FORBES AVENUE f
OAKLANDOAKLAND 
Next to Arby’s 
681-2202 or 681-2203*
Applies to Delivery Only
Buy one Extra Large or Large Pizza 
Get 4 large drinks FREE 
Buy one Medium or Small Pizza 
Get 2 large drinks FREE 
Buy one Whole Hoagie 
Get 1 large drink FREE
FREE DELIVERY AFTER 6 P.M.
Visit our Bar & Dining Lounge
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
J o • •
•'Vr
o
11111<
TC
<*¦&
o°;o
Business Hours 
Sundays 2:00 P.M. — 2:00 A.M. 
Mon.-Tues.-Wed. 10:00 A.M. —2:00 A.M. 
Thurs.-Fri.-Sat. 10:00 A.M. —3:00 A.M.
---------------* -------------------:-----------------------;
. .'-v: ^ \ . ,.......„ .

---------------------------------------------------

Walter J. Ong
S. J. Uniuersify Professor of Humanities
Professor of English
Professor of Humanities in Psychiatry
at St. Louis Uniuersify
WRITING ISA 
TECHNOLOGY 
THAT RESTRUCTURES 
THOUGHT
Thursday, April 14, 1983 in the Wherrett Room 
and
x • ;
FIGHTING FOR LIFE: 
CONTEST, SEXUALITY 
AND CONSCIOUSNESS
Friday, April 15 at 10:30 AM in the Wherrett Room
Both lectures are free and open to the community. Dr. Ong, a Jesuit priest, has 
made an intensive study of the relationship “of the alienation and reintegration 
of consciousness brought about through technological transformations of the 
word by writing, print and electronics, and the effects of the transformations on 
oral tradition and literary forms, on thought processes and on social structures 
and behavior. ” Well-known as a lecturer across the United States and Canada 
and on national radio and television networks in the United States and abroad, 
Father Ong has lectured widely in Europe, the Middle East, Central and West 
Africa, Asia and Latin America. Both lectures will be followed by informal 
receptions for Dr. Ong and the lecture audience.

---------------------------------------------------

V______ Features.
"Sex at 7" addresses attitudes
By MONICA SAFFRIN
fartan Assistant Features Editor
You blew it, kids.
Our student union — known to the com­
mon man as Skibo — was the fashionable 
place to be last Monday night, and you wer­
en’t there. You missed the Tartan meeting, 
vou missed the construction going on in the 
Wherrett Room and you missed working on 
“Carried Away” in the Ballroom. You even 
missed sex in the Highlander Room.
That’s right, sex. “Sex at 7,” a human 
sexuality program sponsored by Student 
Activities and the Counseling and Student 
Development Center, began last Monday 
with a discussion led by Liz Lincoln, Direc­
tor of Counseling and Training, Women’s 
Health Services, Inc. The topic of the night 
was “Sexual Attitudes/Sexual Responses.”
To give the audience a sense of “how 
attitudes develop and how they affect your 
life,” Lincoln distributed a questionnaire 
entitled “Sexual Practices and the Law.” 
Each person was instructed to place a 
number of practices on a scale which ranged 
from “should be prohibited by law” to 
“should be considered a matter of private 
decision.” (The list included such items as 
divorce, rape, publication/display of porno­
graphic materials, non-marital cohabita- 
don, oral-genital sex, and incest.) Lincoln 
remained involved by defining certain terms
- statutory rape, voyeurism, and transvest­
ism — for people who asked for help.
After the questionnaires were collected, 
the audience was divided into two groups. 
Both were asked to respond to three attitudes
Gorey draws for "Mikado"
photo by John Stilwell/art © Edward Gorey
This “Mikado” drawing by Gorey is 
Part of the exhibit featured at the
library.
By LAUREN SCHNEIDER
Tartan Staffwriter
On April 4, the University Libraries’ Fine 
and Rare Book Rooms opened a new 
exhibit, “Theater Drawings of Edward 
Gorey.” The exhibit, loaned to the Libraries 
courtesy of Edward Gorey and the Gotham 
Book Mart of New York, includes Gorey’s 
set design and costume drawings for the 
Drama Department’s upcoming production 
of The Mikado.
The exhibit came to CMU through the 
collaboration of John Wulp, Associate Pro­
fessor of Stage Design, and Mary Kay Schall, 
Special Collections Librarian. She offered 
exhibit space to Wulp and William Nelson, ( 
Professor of Drama, for The Mikado. “They 
mentioned that Edward Gorey would be
Child Care Cntr. ages well
% DOUG GRAUELNorton Staffwriter 
Anyone can easily see the Morewood 
Child Care Center in action. Just open your 
eY« °n any sunny day as you cross the Cut, 
children, up to age six, will most likely 
^ seen playing at various games here and 
^ere- Begun in 1971 with 12 children, the 
center now caters to the needs of about 90 
children, and is a department of the univer- 
Sltv. housed within the division of auxiliary 
^rvices.
According to Director Marsha Poster 
°senbloom, the center will benefit from 
spring’s capital improvement project.this
The program will affect Morewood 
Jardens, involving many cosmetic changes 
n the building’s interior. The improve­
ments will he funded by the university.
uded will be new heat and ventilation 
S'Stems, as well as new ceilings, lighting,
windows, floors, and an enclosed entry way.
The Child Care Center also receives fund­
ing and licensing from the Pennsylvania 
State Department of Public Welfare and 
from the State Department of Education. 
Classified as a private academic school, the 
center employs about 30 staff members. 
Full-time staff members are licensed 
teachers; some are also student teachers from 
Pitt, Duquesne, Carlow, and work-study 
students from CMU.
The center is co-sponsor of the Infant- 
Toddler Center of Squirrel Hill. The goals 
of the CMU center are to provide “compre­
hensive services to working families with 
children aged three months up to six years,” 
said Rosenbloom. The center also acts as a 
training site for people in the Pittsburgh 
area who are in the field of early childhood 
education.continued on page 8
doing drawings for the show, and I had 
heard the name of Edward Gorey before and 
knew that he did work that was very appeal­
ing. In January, Mr. Wulp came over and 
reviewed the space in the Fine Book Room 
on the fourth floor of Hunt Library and he 
thought that it was workable.” The draw­
ings then came to CMU, some sent by the 
Gotham Book Mart and others brought by 
Wulp himself.
The drawings on exhibit are solely theater 
drawings, although Gorey’s talents are not 
limited to the theater. He is also the author 
of numerous books, including Gorey Sto­
ries, produced here at CMU in 1978. A 
number of the set design draw ings are actual 
working drawings that are used in the shop 
during set construction. Schall regretted
having to put them behind glass where they continued on page 9Delts ride
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
If yesterday was a nice day, you would 
have seen Delta Tau Delta brothers taking 
turns on a stationary bicycle, apparently 
going nowhere, but actually making great 
progress in raising money for arthritis. If 
yesterday’s weather was inclement, the Delts 
will be out there pedaling on the first suita­
ble day.
Thus far, the approximately 30 Delt 
brothers have raised 800 to 1000 dollars and continued on page 9
__ __„r
Liz Lincoln (foreground), Director of Counseling and Training, Women’s Health Services, Inc., tallies audience’s ratings of sexual practices 
as members of one of the two audience groups discuss their opinions on the issues.
(“Girls must work harder than boys to excel 
at math,” “To have sexual relationships 
with more than one person at a time is 
wrong,” and “A lot of the attention we give 
to sex is sick and we’d be better off if less 
importance were attached to it.”) in terms of 
how the attitude developed, consensus 
about the ‘right’ thing, and presentation of a 
position about the ‘right’ thing. The tw7o 
groups eventually shared their conclusions.
Lincoln explained that the exercises were 
designed to show people that attitudes about 
sex and sexual roles “create more problems
than anything else.” She continued: “When 
liquor was illegal in the ’20’s and ’30’s, so 
was birth control. Margaret Sanger and her 
friends came back from Europe with diaph­
ragms hidden in their girdles. Sex has come 
under as much, or more, legislation as any­
thing else.”
Kevin Harris, sophomore EE, said he 
attended Monday’s discussion because he 
w'ants to make sure he keeps informed. It has 
been his experience that, in terms of sexual 
matters, “older people are the most 
ignorant.”
A minister who had come to hear Lincoln 
said that she finds people who are about to 
be married somewhat “over-confident. They 
believe they know everything.” The need for 
education is stressed by Anne W7itchner, 
Director of Student Activities, who sche­
dules sexuality programs every year. “We 
don’t assume that everyone knows every­
thing; our culture makes it hard to get infor­
mation about sex. [By running these 
programs] in a non-threatening environ­
ment, we show students that we care about 
them.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—April 12, 1983
Travel round-up: overseas learning
Milan
As in its long-established programs in 
Paris and Madrid, American students, both 
undergraduates and graduates, may study 
all subjects in the new Milan program, but 
there will be a unique opportunity for qual­
ified students to take courses in business 
administration, economics, and political 
science at the illustrious Università L. Boc­
coni. For further information write to the 
Academic Year Abroad, 17 Jansen Road, 
New Paltz, NY 12561 fig phone (914) 255- 
8105.
London
Middlesex Polytechnic in north London 
is offering a five-week summer school pro­
gram this summer from July 25 to August 
26 with credit courses costing just over $500 
(£350 sterling). The fee covers all tuition and 
a private room. Food is extra but can be 
purchased in the student cafeteria at reaso­
nable rates or prepared by students them­
selves in communal kitchens.
“The courses on offer are those normally 
taught during the academic year,” explains 
summer school coordinator Joel Gladstone, 
an American and MET graduate with 15 
years of teaching in London. “This is not a 
program cobbled together for tourists. The 
majority in each lecture or seminar group 
will be British students who want to make 
up missing credits, accelerate their course or 
add a new subject to their studies.”
The summer school offers intensive aca­
demic work leading to credit in subjects 
within the performing arts, literature, his­
tory, languages, social science or informa­
tion technology.
Polytechnic’s Trent Park campus, where 
the summer school is based, is only a half 
hour’s journey by underground train from 
central London. The campus itself is built 
around a Georgian mansion in the heart of a 
country park. Leisure facilities on the site 
include a swimming pool, tennis courts, 
football grounds, a sports hall and gymna­
sium. In the adjacent park are nature trails, 
golf, horseback riding and miles of open 
countryside for running and walking.
Details of all the courses on offer, along 
with an application form, are available from
the Middlesex Polytechnic Summer ScW 
114 Chase Side, London N14 jpx, 
England.
China__________________________
Travel-Go-Round Inc., in cooperati^ 
with East China Normal University 
Shanghai, People’s Republic of China 
sponsoring three sessions of six-week study 
courses in Chinese language training, 
this June to September.
This special package offer is being 
available to students who wish to take 
advantage of a low cost educational am 
holiday package in China. All interested 
participating should art now, because this 
offer is limited to 90 students only, 30 ineac 
continuaci °"P*1
ft/ Monday - Friday to 11 PM
V ______________ <>*
' /j
WE DELIVER
America’s Best Dressed Sandwich
Delivery FREE With This Coupon 
682-2210 682-2210
CCC reaps from CMU culture
continued from page 7
The center was originally designed to 
cater primarily to the needs of the CMU 
community, including faculty, staff and stu­
dents. The system still works that way, 
according to Rosenbloom, and CMU 
employees benefit from reduced rates for 
their children’s enrollment. The cost of full­
time care is $225 per month if one parent is a 
full-time CMU employee and $150 if both 
parents are full-time CMU employees. For 
part-time care (three days of the parents’ 
choice) the costs are $172.50 and $115, 
respectively. For non-CMU- parents, the 
costs are $300 and $230 per month for full­
time and part-time, respectively.
The Child Care Center is seen by those in 
the field as one of the area’s finest, according 
to Rosenbloom. The center provides break­
fast, hot lunch, and an afternoon snadt 
daily, served by its two full-time cooks. Dur­
ing this spring’s renovations, the center will 
be relocated. The exact location of the move 
is not definite yet, said Rosenbloom. but the 
proposed site, which is on campus, should 
“add flavor to the summer program, whidi 
runs for the months of June and July.” 
Many benefits arise from being in a uni 
versity location, Rosenbloom pointed out 
When children in the center are working on 
art projects, it is easy for them to see to 
usefulness of such a lesson by going to the 
art studios to observe weavers firsthand; and 
with the large number of foreign families at 
CMU, many children are exposed to lan­
guages and cultures they would otherwise 
never encounter. All in all. Rosenbloom sees 
the Child Care Center as an “enriching 
experience for youngsters.”
Like to Work 
with Money?
Petitions for
Student
Government
Available at Skibo
Information Desk
All Activities Fee Paying
Students are Eligibk
Treasurer
Petitions due Thursday, April 21 
at 5:00 pm

---------------------------------------------------

April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 9
/M,Sl«OTv»X
AN fyczppr TheS c r«r
ôid d/5?aW'M£ Boam>"
*%OLAft F5*>W0> ftÂS/fttëHT
When in China, talk as they do
continued from page 8
of three groups.
The package includes: (1) a six-week Chi­
nese language curriculum with courses in 
contemporary, aural and oral Chinese, 
newspaper reading, and Chinese history, 
culture, education, and geography; (2) a ten- 
day, four-city tour of China visiting Peking 
and the Great Wall, Nanking, Xian’s new 
archaelogical discoveries, and Luoyang, as 
well as several side trips to rural Chinese 
cities; (3) round-trip air fare in coach class 
via CAAC, the airline of the People’s 
Republic of China; (4) room and board in a 
two-person room at the student dorms and 
three meals per day in the student cafeteria; 
(5) all transfer and land transportation on all 
excursions and the four city visits; (6) and 
guided tours and seminars by Chinese scho­
lars and bi-lingual guides, plus a profes­
sional U.S. educator.
A special “Certificate of Achievement”
will be awarded to all students who qualify 
and meet the requirements of the six-week 
Chinese curriculum.
China is presently opening up for visitors. 
This package offer allows you the chance to 
visit this acient country and open up oppor­
tunities for those who wish to familiarize 
themselves with the Chinese educational 
and business fields.
All of the above is student priced at $2,595 
from San Francisco, and $2,695 from JFK in 
New York. A deposit of $500 is required 
upon registration with the balance due 60 
days before departure. Visas will be obtained 
free of charge by Travel-Go-Round. Depar­
ture dates are June 3, July 1, and July 29.
For further details, brochure, and reserva­
tion contact Mr. Pang at Travel-Go-Round 
Inc., 516 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 
10036, or telephone (212) 840-7585. Outside 
of New York, call toll free (800) 223-5633.
WRCT & Renaissance
Want You To Keep “On Time”
Stilwell/art © Edward Gorey 
js print is part of the University Libraries’ Fine and Rare Book Rooms new exhibit, 
eatre Drawings erf Edward Gorey,” including Gorev’s set design and costume drawings 
the Drama Dept.’s upcoming production for The Mikado.
ony winner Gorey draws 
or CMU “Mikado"prod’n
!-ued from page 7
n’t very accessible to interested visitors. 
The drawings come from various sources 
er than The Mikado, although Schall 
irmed that the Mikado drawings are “the 
s of the show.” Drawings from the 
roadway production of Dracula, for which 
rey was nominated for two Tony awards 
d actually won one for costume design, 
wan Lake, Gorey Stories, and Fete Divers, a 
let written by Gorey, round out the show, 
ere is even a “Self-Portrait” from Gorey 
tories, a six foot cardboard cutout for set 
esign.
The exhibit has been popular since its 
cning last Monday, and Schall hopes it 
'1 continue to draw a varied audience, 
e Fine and Rare Book Rooms are located 
the fourth floor of Hunt Library, and the 
bit can be seen during the regular hours, 
hich are Monday through Friday between 
2:30 and 4:30 p.m., and by appointment, 
uring the run of The Mikado, the exhibit
will be open the hour before the show to 
accommodate playgoers interested in seeing 
Gorey’s drawings.
Delts ridecontinued from page 7
are shooting for $1500, according to DTD’s 
former president, Art Ward. Their mileage 
goal is 200.
Ward also said that they are starting at 
8:30 a.m. and if the latter goal is still not 
attained by 4:30, they will take the bike into 
the house’s basement and conclude there.
President Greg Morris said that he got the 
idea after one of the brother’s fathers gave 
him a stationary bicycle. “Originally we 
were going to put seven of them on the cut 
and go for 1,000 miles but we decided just to 
have one and put it in front of Doherty.” 
Morris hopes to raise a lot of money even 
though he said that “people think it might 
be boring. But it’ll get the job done.”
Win Renaissance's Time-Line LP or 2 Tickets to April 22 
Spring Carnival Concert. 
Fabulous Grand Prize to be Announced! 
Fill out entry form below and deposit in WRCT box at Skibo 
Information Desk.
To win you must be listening to WRCT 88.3 FM 
and must call in if your name is mentioned during 
prize drawings at 7:00 PM and 11:00 PM right after 
the Radio Calendar from April 15-19.
Grand prize drawing to be held Friday April 22 at 5 PM on 
the Carnival Midway. To win grand prize you must be either 
listening to WRCT or on the Midway.
WRCT-Renaissance Entry Form
Name ______________
Address
You’re ready! For the biggest ind 
the best that life has to offer. Anu :or 
the college ring that will speak vol­
umes about you—and your achieve­
ments—for years to come.
What’s more—you can afford it! 
Because now, for a limited time you 
can order from the entire ArtCarved 
collection of 14K gold college rings 
and save $25. Come and see the 
exquisitely crafted styles—from the
classic to the contemporary. And 
choose the ring and custom options 
that most eloquently express you.
Now is your time to get what you 
deserve. And remember—nothing 
else feels like real gold./IRTQIRVED'
^CLASS RINGS INC
conti uedti paogti
5Lvea lhflsfly lHfs Tortv Foaa
Deposit Required. MasterCard or Visa Accepted1982 ArtCarved Class Rings
Phone
•Drawing dates April 15-19 @ 7:00 PM & 11:00 PM on WRCT 88.3 FM 
•Grand Prize drawing April 22 @ 5:00 PM on Carnival Midway 
•Remember you must be listening to win.

---------------------------------------------------

P'T-EIEVEIl'B
K\DDVentClip These
Coupons
For
M i d night 
Savings
7-ELEVEN STORES 
abgontA on .n?BmuuFBg YMb$t20bbBg hSkk IbBnDgq 5#Be
STUDY BREAK SPECIALS
DATES: April 11 thru April 15
^ ^ ^—y-—^
co n t iuued pag5Lv or ,Records S
Edit s oralsTi h ednri C
\+Mb// c?p1kRu ?Mu1w N25mJBg 5u R—uM.'f C
'/ ,r-»*vtr,<)LJMr.<wy 1'
Elf VEd
7-UP 
2 Liter 
Products 
990tAoke. K.
kXN-5r°fee:
Spea'M^ Tóo
[¦ £0*^
tiiimeo eueoi^iw
/Ì7.UJ<TV»^S-)COKE 
2 Liter 
Products 
990
ipEXU*^'
cooc^
acaahngd
SNYDERS 
POTATO 
CHIPS 
2-4 oz. bags 
$1.00
O'—
KEEBLER 
Deluxe Grahams 
99 0 
FUDGE STICKS 
99 0 
VANILLA/CHOC 
CREAMS 
790
umLf eMg.g uEGfEB. KBy gWNrs lws
PfEF e-E^ORD üß Awj IN1& SFtHOSofcEb
Ä4i»majiDiaK534Ä
: N»*\E ___________________.______ I
tortiRESS_________________________ f
_________________________;fDQAv»tM«i To net-D —
|4^t *
pv*o*»fc

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
aramazovs ggle jokes
)I ISE CROCOLL
Contributing Editor
ere are few actually new methods of 
ertainment lately, but because history 
to repeat itself, old amusements can 
back to us renewed and refreshed. As 
they opened a two week stint in 
Pittsburgh last Tuesday, The 
Flying Karamazov Brothers 
bounded onto the stage of the 
Foster Memorial with what they 
“New Wave Vaudeville” or perhaps 
r accurately “juggling and cheap theat- 
” to an enthusiastic audience.
e five performers (who are not really 
thers and who are not actually Russian) 
not fly but they do juggle. And juggle 
y do well, besides being comedians, 
es and musicians almost all at the same
ey appear to be a group of gypsies with 
ir long hair, black costumes and unusual 
es taken from Dostoyevsky’s The Broth- 
Karamozov. A band of seven musicians 
ns the show setting the gypsie feeling by 
ring costumes and playing antique cir- 
tunes.
e Karamazovs show us their skill first 
juggling plasdc bowling pins Alyosha, 
yed by Randy Williams, remarks “I don’t 
k they can see the wires.” By anticipat- 
the audiences’ cynicism in this way they 
ed their attention and trust. Dmitri, 
Paul Magid, and Ivan by Howard 
terscn, further display expertise by jug- 
g with sickles. Dmitri explains “there is 
y one side of a sickle one can catch —
: than once.” As a group they are able to 
; three against one or two, moving 
nd the stage in unison or in two inde­
dent teams, some times dropping a pin 
member without disrupung the 
entum of one toss.
two sets of drums and a bass drum are 
ght out, Smerdyakov, played by Sam 
says that “juggling is music and 
ic is juggling.” They proceed to prove 
point by juggling rubber balls in dme 
ther hitting the drums, producing a 
Lmic sound. In another segment, Alyo- 
and Smerdyakov juggling pins as they 
drums hidden cleverly into the set offer 
music, with Dmitri and Ivan juggling continued on page 13
The Flying Karamazov Brothers bring their twisted humor to the Stephen Foster Memorial through April 17.
Civic Arena concertRush musicianship outstanding
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
The stage was set; the curtains of the great 
movie screen were drawn. As the lights fell, 
cheers and lighters rose from the 14,000 spec­
tators. Multi-hued spodights illuminated 
. the stage, and the opening riffs 
of “Spirit of the Radio” filled 
igr the Civic Arena. Rush began 
their all-too-brief, two-hour cap­
tivation of the audience.
The music moved into “Tom Sawyer” 
(unfortunately, probably the only song a 
small percentage of the audience recog­
nized) and the quick pace of the show, as 
well as the tightness of the music, was estab­
lished. Lead singer Geddy Lee, a competent 
orator, delivered a brief but professional
trong leads carry weak rchestra in "Fidelio"
E. PETRIE
Entertainment Editor
elio, Beethoven’s sole opera, closed 
at Heinz Hall after proving to be 
success for the Pittsburgh Opera, 
two-act Gennan opera was performed 
just the right amount of 
dramatic flair to overcome one 
flaw.
The story of an imprisoned 
condemned to die and his faithful, 
rescuer-wife is clearly one deserving 
P acting. The cast was well-suited 
story and brought the audience closer 
real love between Leonore and her 
sh nobleman, Flores tan. 
e «lost outstanding performances, for-
> were those of the leads. Susan von 
(Leonore), a newcomer to the 
Opera, conveyed the honesty and 
love of her character to the 
quite well. Her voice, exception- 
strong as wejj ^ cjearj was among the 
°f the cast.
61 co*star, William Fleck (Rocco), also
made his debut at the Pittsburgh Opera 
worthwhile. As the sympathetic yet con­
scientious jailer, Fleck added color and vital­
ity to the seemingly dismal set of 
circumstances.
John Alexander (Florestan) portrayed the 
innocent victim with ease. Not given a sub­
stantial singing role, the husband-prisoner 
still played an important part in the tale and 
Alexander’s flexibility enabled him to com­
fortably display the hopelessness his charac­
ter suffered.
Other good roles included Julian Patrick 
(Don Pizarro) and Elizabeth Hynes 
(Marzelline).
The performance, however, lacked the 
full support of the orchestra’s enthusiasm. 
Despite sincere attempts by members of the 
audience, the applause after the “Leonore 
Overture” failed to hide the disappointment 
of most of the audience.
Nonetheless, the performance was saved 
__along with Florestan’s life — to be consi­
dered an accomplishment.
introduction and welcome, the only 
planned pause in the show; later, there was a 
quick pause as Lee directed back those close 
to the stage to reduce a dangerous crowding 
situation. From this point on, the numbers 
came quickly as they moved from one favor­
ite to the next.
Lee, known early in his career as a 
shrieker and a wild-looking bassist, showed 
a great deal of control over his voice, no 
longer screeching higher notes but singing 
them. As he defdy switched from keyboards 
to bass, tossing his head and dancing ener­
getically about the stage as the moving bass 
line chased his vocals, he seemed quite capa­
ble of handling his triple role.
Alex Lifeson, sporting a new haircut (it 
seems to get shorter with each tour), had to 
adjust to the band’s shift in focus from a 
heavy guitar sound to one of synthesiz­
er/guitar combined, a move that required 
much patience. Unlike many of today’s 
guitarists, he does not need to cover deficien­
cies with distortion, nor as he proved conclu­
sively in “The Analog Kid,” does he need to 
hold his instrument in some bizarre fashion 
to play difficult passages.
Neil Peart, holding a Ph.D. in music from 
Montreal’s McGill University (Canada’s 
equivalent to an Ivy League school), shows a 
degree of discipline rare in percussionists. 
While he could easily dominate the sound 
spectrum, he instead fills a complementary 
role.
Peart’s sophisticated and ever off-beat 
style is unique in his field as he aims u 
follow the music, not drive the tempo. He 
showed a great deal of control and concen­
tration in his protracted solo during the 
encore number, “YYZ” as each hand and 
foot developed a separate rhythm.
Musicianship is by definition not only the 
ability to play one's instrument well. It 
includes knowing when to be prominent 
and when to hold back, and how to enhance 
the sound of one’s group members and of 
the whole. The degree of this ability in Lee, 
Lifeson and Peart makes Rush stand out
among today’s top bands.
This quality is shown in great detail dur­
ing the song “Countdown,” undoubtedly 
the show’s climax, as the band played a 
sound-track role to a video of the launching 
of the space shuttle Columbia. “Scorching 
blast of golden fire / As it slowly leaves the 
ground / Tears away with a mighty force / 
The air is shattered by the awesome sound.” 
The lyrics followed the film quite well as the 
band, bathed in red spodights, wove music 
that built the emotional intensity to a tre­
mendous pitch.
The band played mosdy from Moving 
Pictures (all but “Witch Hunt”) and Signals 
(all but “Losing It”) and added quite a few 
video touches.
The chorus of “Subdivisions” was well 
illustrated, and the race through the coun­
tryside in “Red Barchetta,” an engaging 
song about youth, freedom and the car, was 
depicted in animated detail. “The Camera 
Eye” was backed by passing clouds, and the 
Red Star stood out boldly through “2112: 
Overture.”
Of course, the show included some older 
classics. “Broon’s Bane/The Trees,” featur­
ing Lifeson in a beautiful classical guitar 
solo, promoted the lighting of lighters to 
produce a most enchanting effect. The 
response has repeated for “Closer to the 
Heart,” as the audience sang along for the 
first few verses.
Overall, however, the concert’s most dis­
appointing aspect was time, which pre­
vented playing more older numbers. The 
band’s first hit, “Working Man” wasn’t 
played, nor were “Fly by Night,” 
“Anthem,” “Bastille Day,” “Passage to 
Bangkok,” and several others.
The final medley ("2112: Overture,” 
‘Temples of Syrinx,” “Xanadu,” “La Villa 
Strangiato,” and “In the Mood”) was a good 
attempt to appease the need for vintage 
works, but was not adequate.
Perhaps in the future, though they have 
stated they have no intention of doing so, continued on page 13

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—April 12, 1983
Handle music, hecklers wellVoodoo gives confident concert
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
“Do I come to see you at your job and then 
yell at you?” So sayeth the New Music Mes­
siah, Stanard Ridgeway, the lead singer for 
Wall of Voodoo to the proverbial concert- 
going lobotomized haggler who 
sitdth in the relative safety of the 
audience of the Stanley Show­
case and asketh stupid things of 
the band. That was just one demonstration 
of the confidence that Ridgeway radiated 
last Tuesday night, April 5 at the Wall of 
Voodoo concert.
Boys Town opened for the Wall and 
unfortunately didn’t seem to have the same 
assurance as Wall of Voodoo. Perhaps that 
comes with experience. Lead singer Rebecca 
Bellamy played and sang well, her voice 
rising to the occasion, but shades of Chrissy 
Hynd and the Pretenders danced between 
the stage lights. Miss Bellamy also seemed 
afraid of the audience and would give little 
movement other than an obligatory body 
thrust now and then. The audience 
responded well to Boys Town, especially on 
songs such as “Heading for a Heartbreak” 
which had a simple but professional beat.
Wall of Voodoo puts on a great show, 
there’s no way around it. Ridgeway and the 
other band members sauntered onto the dar­
kened Showcase stage, which is nothing 
more than the Stanley’ with an artificial 
stage jutting B rows into the audience and 
draped on either side with black curtains, as 
if it was accidentally dropped through the 
ceiling half an hour before the show. The 
stage was eerily lit by a light behind The 
Wall of Voodoo door. Suddenly, they started
into “Ring of Fire” from their first album- 
and the crowd flipped out.
After a while, die mouthy morons who 
seem to breed in the cracks and crannies 
between the aisle seats began their harangue 
of the band, but Ridgeway responded well, 
probably because he had the microphone 
and could insult the deserving derelicts to 
the whole audience. Any performer who 
does that has my respect.
Other notable songs in the show were 
“Mexican Radio” (of course), “Me and My 
Dad,” and “I’ll Do It Tomorrow.” Besides 
Ridgeway, the most prominent band 
member was Marc Moreland, a tall skinny 
guy dressed in a western hat and looking 
like something that came from a farm. His 
guitar playing was one of the more exhaust­
ing displays of talent that I’ve seen in a
while.
For an encore, Wall of Voodoo snuck into 
“Call of the West” with a mournful 
way harmonica performance. They also did 
a splendid medley of Italian western films 
along the lines of The Good, the 
the Ugly, and films "of that ilk. 
almost imagine an electronic Clint East­
wood riding over the horizon, lip 
disdain at Wall of Voodoo’s New Music 
which would be short-circuiting his few log­
ical synapses.
The only criticism I have of the show is 
the theatre itself. Big, ugly, burly, mean peo­
ple were keeping fans from dancing in the 
aisles. It is absolutely impossible to do any­
thing more than wiggle embarassingly in 
the rows of seats. Let’s face it, W7all of Voo­
doo is a dancing group. But other than this, 
if you missed it, you lose.
Donna Marvin, left, tries her charms 
Marthe Cotton in rehearsal for Scotch 
Soda’s Carried Away.
Three artists show work
Religion dominant theme at Forbe
By SARAH G. RATCHYE
Special for The Tartan
Jamie Adams, Karen Massey and James 
Pustorino will be exhibiting their recent 
paintings, drawings, prints, and ceramics at 
Forbes Gallery this week.
Biblical allegory and the 
artist’s religious experience and 
understanding are the references 
Jamie Adam’s powerful 
paintings. Characterized by classic, meticu­
lously rendered nude figures floating within 
an expansive, timeless landscape, the work 
reminds the viewer of their spiritual
strength and human vulnerability.
“Contemplating Mortality,” depicts a 
nude man confronting a Greek sculpture of 
a male upper torso. Both the sculpture and 
the man are floadng above a green, swirling 
sea. The man is kneeling and his humbled 
posture is viewed by the artist as a symbol of 
spiritual strength. Only by having faith can 
the man transcend his body and float above 
water.
In another painting, a woman kneels 
toward the comer of a prayer closet, a quiet 
place for prayer. The closet floats within a 
tranquil landscape. The woman’s nudity
and posture show her vulnerability, but 
her powerful devotion to God.
In another group of paintings, 
translated his religious ideas and symbol] 
into paintings concerned with the Vietn 
War. Stark, frontal views of an Ameri 
POW with his hands behind his 
occupy each panel of Adams’ triptych, 
work differs from Adams’ more dass 
works in both form and message. The pa 
is handled more expressively and the n 
exist within
zone. There is no sign of hope or spine
14-16,20-23
Skibo Ballroom
Ml seats reserved.
Tickets aval'^kao*at the doo'
Information Ues*

---------------------------------------------------

April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 13
Regeneration of ritual shown at Forbes Gallery
„rtinued from page 12
.ength in the men- The war °ffere<i no 
:e for prayer or quiet reflection. Instead, 
men saw and took part in a vision of
[ell.
James Pustonno s pnnts and ceramic ves­
sels are also concerned with Biblical allegory 
and personal experience. Combining reli­
gious symbolism and allegory, Pustorino’s 
six ceramic vessels illustrate man’s journey 
from an earthy, godless beast to a spiritual 
being, united with God. The use of the ves-
%ush shows ensemble work
rtinued from page 11
¦v w ill drop the warm up band and play a 
o-and-a-half- or three-hour show. Was it 
illy necessary for the audience to sit 
ough Johnny Butcher Axes’ massive 
lortion?
Hiey took but one encore, “YYZ,” featur- 
rPeart’s superbly complex drum solo and 
ne impressive bass work by Lee. It is 
lusing to note the percussion solo was in 
encore. This shows a high degree of 
Sessional thinking as it gave the audience 
encore they wanted yet kept the show 
der control and within its time frame, 
rhe concert had a solid portion of sur- 
ses and special features in addition to the
clean sound brought through good acous­
tics and mixing.
The increased quantity and quality of 
film work, the appropriate use of lighting 
(notably in “Vital Signs”), the competence 
of Lee in his increasingly complex role, the 
calm abilities of Lifeson and his rare vocal 
appearance in “Temples of Syrinx” (indeed 
we now know why he hasn’t done any sing­
ing since 1976), and the superb discipline of 
Peart combined to make and enormously 
satisfying evening.
While there may be a handful of better 
musicians around, there are few bands who 
have learned to work as well together as the 
members of Rush.
sel form refers to the wedding at Cana and 
the miracle of transubstantiation.
The symbolic, heavily carved jars change 
from the relatively plain form of the first jar 
to the last, elaborately carved porcelain jar. 
The first jar is made of stoneware and 
depicts figures floating downward, away 
from God. The last jar’s winglike form sym­
bolizes man’s spiritual release from earth 
and joyous bond with God.
Pustorino’s large, verticle, four-piece inta­
glio print shows the history and structure of 
the Church. Above the supine body of 
Christ are the multitudes of atrocities com­
mitted in Christ’s name. Buildings, words 
and people are twisted and consequently 
involved in the Holocaust, American slavery 
in the South, Irish religious wars and the 
Crusades.
Rows of bodies surround a vision of the 
Devil in the crypt in the cathedral’s base­
ment. The artist symbolized the progressive 
degeneration of ritual by the transformation 
of a Bible into an axe and of a dead priest 
into a grinning monster. The Devil occu­
pies the center of this second print and mas­
querades as the Angel of Light. Above 
ground, Pustorino shows us a confused and 
alienated congregation. The artist believes 
the people need a true understanding of 
God. In the last print the dead crucified 
Christ is seen holding on to the live Christ 
above the cathedral’s spires.
Karen Massey is exhibiting several care­
fully detailed, water-color pencil drawings 
of still lifes.
The show will be at Forbes Gallery, April 
12-16.
iumor is brothers' key
utinued from page 11
tons and playing the xylophone.
Their juggling entertains the audience 
¦ficiently, but the most compelling part of 
dr act is their sense of humor. Not only are 
dr nicks skilled but they are able to be 
:cessful comedians simultaneously. They 
nearly always talking, whether it is to the 
dience or themselves, and they are natu- 
ty funny, never once depending on crass 
mor. Their improvisation is excellent as 
:y watch Ivan try to iueele three random 
jects selected by the audience. Alyosha 
nitri and Smerdyakov work off one
another’s words without being predictable 
even to themselves. Fyodor, played by 
Timothy Furst, doesn’t speak on stage but 
shows his acrobatic ability in one segment.
The Flying Karamazov Brothers are 
Broadway bound on May 12. The Pitts­
burgh Public Theatre presents them at the 
Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre in associ­
ation with the University of Pittsburgh 
Department of Theatre Arts until April 17. 
The Karamazov’s quality of spontaneity is 
what makes their act most appealing. You 
may find it worth your while to be spontane­
ous and see them before they fly away.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHSLOWENBRAU lt., Dk.,- botiMICHELOBBUDWEISERMILLEROLD ENGLISH 800 SCHLITZ MALT IRON CITY ERLANGER—bottles GENESSEE ROLLING ROCK SCHMIDTS PABST SCHLITZPEARL (Texas) — bottles DOUBLE DARK—bottles BLATZ PIELSOLD MILWAUKEEPINK CHAMPALE—bottlesCOLT 45MILLER LITEMICHELOB LITEIRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak • Corned Beef • Tuno • Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock • Cod • Ground Steak • Sausage 
Veal • Chuck • Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs • Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm-2 am 
Imports, Cans. Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKEN • MOLSON ALE • MICHELOB 
STROHS • MILLERS • SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6pk. 
featured each week
STROHS • ROLLING ROCK • SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800 • SCHLITZ MALT • PABST
ImportsBECK’S It. Ok —Germany BASS ALE — Englond HARP LAGER-Ireland MOLSON GOLDEN —Conodo HEINEKEN Lt Dk —Holland LOWENBRAU-Germony O'KEEFE ALE-Canada PILSNER URQUELL-Czech KIRIN—Jopan
ST PAULI GIRL — Germony DOS EQUIS XX —Menco JOHN COURAGE-England WATNETS —England CARLSBERG ELEPHANT - Den CARLSBERG ROYALE - Denmark CARLSBERG DARK - Denmark TSINGTAO-Chmo HACKER PSCHORR-Germony LABATT'S—ConodoMACKESSON STOUT-lieland MURPHY-Irelond OLD VIENNA LAGER-Conada COOPER & SON - Australia 55 LAGER-Conada FOSTER S LAGER-Australio
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9am-4:45am Fri-Sat 
Call 621 -7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
Pgh.. PA 15213
Has CMU
Got You
By The Balls?
u,eq eq wb2v TRx .F5W.?E IeGoaaw wb2 goG dort wb2v gbdLaoeGq rGbOG nb qn2AtGnq O,b 
goG^n Ab oGwn,eGj dbvt o"b2n en n,oG wb2 goG* 5goAtdeg 5BBoevq eq bGgt ojoeG v2GGeGj n,tev 
eGBodb2q 5$p godLoejG* Cbegt wb2v bLeGebGq o"b2n LvbBtqqbvq• gaoqqtq• u5^q• vt°2evtdtGnq• 
Bogeaenetq• gbdL2ntvq oGA AtLovndtGnoa qbgeoa B2GgnebGq* u,tG Ab bGt bB n,t BbaabOeGji
o; $tn2vG wb2v Bbvd nb n,t 5goAtdeg 5BBoevq TbU on u,t kre"b RGBbvdonebG ctqr*
"; cvbL n,eq Bbvd eGnb n,t godL2q doea*
g; .bdt "w n,t kn2AtGn ktGont 1BBegt*
funded by your student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Activities Board Presents
A SPRING CARNIVAL CON----------
POUSETTE-DART
Friday, April22,1983 8:00P.M.
Carnegie-Mellon University Gym 
General Admission Tickets: $4.00 With CMUID. 
$6.00 Without
Tickets available at Skibo Information Desk from 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., 
Monday through Friday, starting April 7th.
For further information call 578-2107 
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

e T team “pities the fools of the PAC
se.B wlbfu
The Tartan
unprecedented fifth straight year, 
i{J track team defeated all comers last 
ay during the PAC relays at Case 
Reserve University. This meet is a 
indicator of team depth with the 
nCe championships less that three
i away-
were many fine performances dur- 
meet starting with CMU’s confer- 
¡yiVP, Kevin Cureton. Cureton 
ored the 400m and 1600m relays to vic- 
ran an excellent quarter leg on the
foul shots id Stypula to comm.
L big story in IM country this week was 
[ul Shooting. There commissioner Bob
iil won his own league in the Mens 
Ion canning 75 out of 100 free throws 
Lorraine Stypula out did her male 
Iterpart by hitting 80/100. The team 
etition went to GSIA. 
where, Simon Najar x4192 is the new 
nissioner of both Co-Rec Badmitton 
-Rec Table Tennis. Schedules are 
r both sports and can be picked up at 
M office. For the latter, all participants 
Ed call their opponents and make an 
lintment.
|st call for Frisbee! All you organicsand 
arians who have nothing to do on the 
lends, why don’t you sign up? If you 
[ to, just send in a roster to the IM office, 
committee will be Henry X8849.
Track meet will be held Thurs- 
\pril 28 at 4:30. Events are listed on the 
|tin board. A committee is needed, 
to the chief! Brian Taubler has been 
IM President for the 83-84 year 
fcing Dave Penz. Congratulations
winning Sprint Medley. Fran Diegelman 
turned javelin thrower for a day and made 
the winning difference in the javelin relay. 
Joe Hanse, also a member of the Victorians 
javelin relay, threw a personal record of 
194'3", a tremendous throw for so early in 
the season.
Though these performances were excel­
lent in themselves, the track man of the day 
was first year phenomenon Ivan Juzang. In 
his first competitive try at the triple jump, 
Juzang out-jumped not only CMU’s 
jumpers, but also the rest of the conference 
and won both the triple and long jumps. 
Juzang also ran excellent legs on both the
400m and sprint medley relays.
Of the 13 relay events, CMU won 8. In the 
running events, CMU was victorious in the 
sprint medley (Ridley, Juzang, Cureton, 
Kronge), the 6400m relay (Lee, Dusch, 
Brewer, Weakland), the 400m relay (O’Ship, 
Ridlay, Juzang, Cureton), and the 1600m 
relay (Ridley, Galvin, Krause, Cureton).
In the field events, CMU won the Javelin 
relav (Hanse, Diegelman, James), the long 
jump (Juzang, Regan, Vasalani), the Discus 
(Diegelman, Crain, Vasalani), and the triple 
jump (Juzang, Rodgers, Regan).
Coach Meckley commented, “I was Par­
ticularly pleased with Fran Diegelman,
Kevin Cureton, Ivan Juzang, and Hanse; 
and Nick Bell single-handedly took 2nd in 
the Pole Vault Relay.” He went on to say, 
“Today’s performances are particularly 
pleasing in light of how early it is in our 
season. Our 400m relay tied the conference 
record, and the 1600m relay was only a split- 
second short of that record.”
The chances for a record fifth straight 
conference track championship look better 
with each meet as the Tartans gel into one of 
the scrappiest CMU teams in recent history. 
Saturday’s victory was reminescent of the 
words of the ever eloquent MR. T: “We pity 
the PAC!”
The CMU tennis team served up faults this week as they were thrashed twice, 8-1 and 6-3.
photo by John Stilwell
AL East to go back to the Bronx
photo by Steve Winawei
’ coach Lou Camesecca was named USBW A Coach of the \ ear for leading the Red- 
a 28-4 record and a Big East title.
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
This is the third in a four part series pre­
viewing the 1983 baseball season. This 
week’s division is probably die toughest to 
pick because there will be probably 6 teams
> . *• over -500- Some say the Orioles,
; y jy some the Brew Crew.-. Well 
' • -y folks, Billy’s back and wherever
, he manages a division winner is 
usually produced.
1) New York Yankees — I know about 90% 
erf you are hating me for this choice but there 
is a reason and its initials are B.M. You can 
look it up if you want to, but in the first year 
Mardn has taken over a team, he has fin­
ished first or second. He finished second with 
mediocre teams in Texas in 1974 and Oak­
land in 1980 and finished first with talented 
teams in Minnesota in 1969, Detroit in 1972, 
and New York in 1976. The quesdon now is 
are the Yankees talented? You betcha bot­
tom dollar!
At least that’s what George Steinbienner 
did. After a year of failing with playeis 
acquired through trades, the Boss went back 
to his reliable free agent system to pluck out 
leftfiekier Steve Kemp (19.98./.286). DH 
Don Baylor (24,93,-263), and starter Bob 
Shirley (8-13,3.60). Baylor and Kemp are tal­
ented enough to fill the void still left by 
Reggie while Shirley, who should have a 
good year in a lefty ballpark, will try to 
replace Tommy John in the rotation.
The rest of rotation is not proven but has 
enough depth that if one fails, others will
respond. They include three lefties ace Ron 
Guidry (14-8, 3.81), Dave Righetd (11-10, 
3.79), and Shane Rawley (11-10, 4.06), and 
two rightes Doyle Alexander (1-7,6.08) who 
looked solid in spring training and rookie 
Jay Howell (15-5,2.40 in AAA). Their are no 
questions in the bullpen with the Goose 
(4-5, 2.23, 30), Rudy May (6-6, 2.89, 3), and 
Dale Murray (8-7, 3.16, 11).
The only tough decisions Martin had to 
nr.ke was what to do at the comers erf the 
infield. At first, 6 players started spring look­
ing for a job with one, veteren Ken Griffey 
(12, 54, .277) out on top. The problem: can 
Griffey field and can he have an injury free 
year. At third, Martin had a choice of 
whether letting 38 year old Graig Nettles 
(18, 55, .232) stat after he made a career high 
21 errors last year or moving shortstop Roy 
Smalley (20, 67, .257) to third against lefties 
giving Andre Robertson (2,9, .220) a shot at 
short. It looks like Billy settled on having 
old friend Nettles start Mid see what 
happens.
The rest of the Bronx Bombers lineup is 
awfully tough. All-star Dave Winfield (37, 
106, .280) will be in right except at Yankee 
Stadium, Jerry Mumphrey (9, 68, .300) in 
center, Willie Randolph (3, 36, .280) at 
second and Rick Gerone (5, 28, .227) and 
Butch Wynegar (3, 20, .293) splitting the 
leigns at catching. Strengths-Power, speed, 
bullpen, depth, manager, outfield defense. 
Weaknesses-Right handed starting pitch­
ing, fielding at the comers, owner.continued on ptft 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—April 12, 1983
Tigers and Brewers hope for strong bullpens
continued from page 15
Prediction — Billy’s got this team just where 
he wants it. He’s got his great pitching 
coach Art Fowler and he’s got the respect of 
Mr. Steinbrenner. This team will win 103 
games with Guidry, Kemp, and Shirley hav­
ing banner years. The only bust might be 
Baylor. /
2) Detroit Tigers — The last two years the 
Tigers have been up ther contending for the 
division but always seem to fall short 
No bullpen. What’s the difference this year? 
Not much except that Senor Smoke is back 
and well. If Aurelio Lopez can regain the 
form of three years ago, Detroit will have a 
quality staff through and through.
Last year, Sparky Anderson’s men led the 
league in E.R. A., 3.80. This was due primar­
ily to a superb starting four of Jack Morris
(17-16, 4.06), Dan Petry (15-9, 3.22), Milt 
Wilcox (12-10, 3.62), and Jerry Udjur (10-10, 
3.69). The only problem is there is not much 
depth in this pitching staff so an injury-free 
year is a must.
On the field, GM Jim Campell surprised 
everyone by resigning four free agents left 
fielder Larry Herndon, 1st baseman Mike 
I vie (14, 38, .232), Chet Lemon (19,52, .266), 
and possible 3rd baseman Enos Cabell (2, 
37, .261). What this does is give the team and 
its fans confidence that the present Tiger 
roster is one that can win. A characteristic 
needed down the stretch.
Catcher Lance Parrish (32, 87, .284) leads 
a powerful lineup that is virtually set except 
center. Their rookie sensation Kirk Gibson 
(8, 35, .278) wrill start out platooning with 
Lemon. If Gibson can’t cut it. He will move
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP LAW 
ENTERTAINMENT LAW 
General Practice 
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION 
OAKLAND OFFICE LOCATIONROBERT A. CREO GARY S. STEINER
_____Attorneys at Law______
4606 Winthrop Street (Second Floor) 
(Off South Craig Street)
Call anytime: 683-5515 or 281-4130 
Appointments Available 
Mon. through Sat. 9 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
to DH with John Wockenfuss (8, 32, .301). 
Right field falls into the hand of last years 
surprise Glenn Wilson (12, 34, .292).
Up the middle, Detroit has one of the best 
double play combos in baseball. Alan 
Trammel (9, 57, .258) at short and Lou 
Witaker (15, 65, .286) at second begin their 
fifth year together Strengths-Power, starting 
pitching, speed, infield defense, depth 
Weaknesses-Pitching depth, bullpen. 
Prediction — The Tigers have the horses to 
go all the way. They’ve got th pitching and 
the hitting. All they nedd is a solid year from 
Lopez or Dave Rozema (3-0, 1.63) and 
they’ll win big. 93-69, with Lopez getting 20 
saves.
3) Milwaukee Brewers — The writers voted 
shortstop Robin Yount (29,114, .331) as the 
AL M. V.P. last year but if the Brewers want 
to win the division in ’83 they need the 
return of the team M.V.P. reliver Rollie Fin­
gers (5-6, 2.60, 29) from an elbow injury. 
Fingers was the difference in last year’s 
World Series because his absence hurt the 
Brew Crew in Games 2 & 7.
One pitcher manager Harvey Kuenn 
can’t rely on in 1983 is Cy Young award 
winner Pete Vuckovich (18-6, 3.34). Vucko- 
vich went down with a rotator cuff injury in 
spring training and might never return.
Replacements? In the five man rotation 
which already includes Don Sutton (4-13.29 
with Milwaukee), Mosse Haas (11-8, 4.47) 
and Mike Caldwell (17-13,3.91), Kuenn will 
be forced in to choosing among three swing- 
men, Bob McClure (12-7, 4.22), Jim Slaton 
(10-6, 3.29), and Jerry Augustine (1-3, 5.08) 
for help. However, by doing so he is weaken­
ing an already unsteady bullpen without 
Fingers. Milwaukee needs their, ace back or 
they will be in dire straights due to the fact 
the Brewers will have to count on Pete Ladd 
(1-3, 4.00) for a full season.
If the pitching can get settled, then 
waukee will again be awesome. This is l 
»hey have a batting order that last ye 
duced 216 home runs and knocked 
runs. There were no changes from 1^ 
so the order will look like this: PaulM 
(19,71, .302) at third, Yount, Mr. unde! 
Cecil Cooper (32, 121, .313) at firs,11 
Simmons (23, 97, .269) catching and 
times DH, Ben Oglivie (34,102, .244) jj 
Gorman Thomas (39, 112, .245) in(* 
Don Money (16, 55, .284)/ Roy H0vvf 
38, .260) at DH, Charlie Moore (6,45 
in right, and Jim Gantner (4, 43, 
second. Amazing ain’t it! Strength 
power, run prodution, bullpen (with 
gers), starting pitching. Weaknesses 
depth, bullpen (without Fingers). 
Prediction — Fingers won’t be 
strength until June which will hurt 
waukee. In order to win the division 
they will have to go on another tear life 
did last year. The only problem is th 
keep this aging team injury free a 
be tough.
4) Baltimore Orioles — My philosop 
the Orioles goes like this. Baltimon 
always had good players and with com 
tion of Earl Weaver’s managing abilit 
great front office people who hire the 
coaches, combine these players 
solid unit. Now that Earl’s gone, 
going to be quite different.
Weaver had a special knack of gettii 
most out of his players. He would ke 
abundance amount of statistics that 
use to platoon righties against certain 
handed pitchers and vice-versa. In 
cases he would be successful. Not to s 
Altobelli isn’t a quality man, but Earl' 
uses out-weigh Joes’ plusses.
What Altobelli will have to work 01 
continued on pag
Check out the hottest new 
night club in Pittsburgh
»
Featuring a live band or disc jockey seven 
nights weekly. Let the 3,000 watt stereo 
system rock you. Experience “Gigolo” per­
forming live April 15 and 16.
Come in for a night to 
remember.

---------------------------------------------------

April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
oston needs pitching while Cleveland to be .500
I from page 16
l up a once proud pitching staff that has 
team E.R.A. in 1982. The main 
jers were starters Scott McGregor (14- 
¡61) and Dennis Martinez (16-12, 4.21) 
[both had off years. To rectify the situa- I Altobelli will have a five man rotation 
¿jjg in May with Storm Davis (84,
joining Martinez, McGregor, Jim 
r (15-5, 3.13), and Mike Flanagan (15-
!)¦O’s also have a problem in the 
because their right handed short 
[xim Stoddard (3-4, 4.02, 12) is again 
a Without him, Baltimore will have 
on lefty Tippy Martinez (8-8, 3.41, 
¡who might get burnt out Sammy Ste- 
1(10-9, 4.14) will be the ong man. 
i the field, Baltimore will try to win on 
hilosophy of great defense and three 
Two rookies who will have a 
leterminant on the success of the ’83 
s will be, new third baseman Leo Her- 
(11, 43, .317 in AAA) and center 
r John Selby (16,52, .279) will platoon 
|veteran A1 Bumbry (5, 40, .262).
: main cogs in the line up will again 
[ltastic Eddie Murray (32, 110, .316) at 
okie of the year Cal Ripken (28, 93, 
land platoon left fielders John Lowen- 
1(24, 66, .320) and Gary Roenicke (21, 
|70). Two others who should’ve been 
|eren’t were DH Ken Shingleton (14,
) and right fielder Dan Ford (10, 43, 
who both had off years, 
tfhere, Rich Dauer (8,57, .280) will be 
and Rick Dempsey (5, 36, .256) 
Strengths — defense, starting 
ng, power, offensive capabilities out- 
llepth. Weaknesses — bullpen, speed, 
Ing and infield depth, 
pott — Without a healthy Stoddard, 
lelli will have to leave his starters in
longer which will tire them out September, 
rhe hitting will still be there but the bench 
and platoon players will not contribute as 
much. 89-73.
5) Boston Red-Sox — Outfielder Tony 
Armas (28,89, .233) must be some outfielder 
because everytime he gets traded he goes 
from the best outfield in baeball to the best 
outfield in basteball. Instead of two slicks- 
ters being on the dside of him, like inOak- 
land, he has fellow sluggers Jim Rice (24,97, 
.309) and Dwight Evans (32, 98, .292). 
Between the three the possibility of 100 
home runs is not far off.
Manager Ralph Houk also hopes Armas 
will help in two other departments where 
Boston was below par in. In 1982, the Red 
Sox hit a surprisingly low 136 home runs, 
low that is for Fenway Park, and only stole 
42 bases.
Hie two biggest problems the Red Sox 
had on the field last year was catching and 
shortstop. At short, Glenn Hoffman (7, 49, 
.209) had his second straight pitiful year but 
Boston management has decided to stick 
with him. Why? At catching , platoon men 
Rich Gedman (4, 26, .240) and Gary Allen- 
son (6,33, .205) stunk the joint up so the Red 
Sox acquired A’s reserve Jeff Newman (6,30, 
.199). Great acquisition.
The rest of the infield will have Dave 
Stapleton (14, 65, .264) at first, Jerry Remy 
(0, 47, .280) at second, and 2nd year man 
Wade Boggs (5, 44, .349) at third. This will 
also be the last year for the elder statesman 
Carl Yatrzemski (16,72, .275). He will proba­
bly be leaving baseball without a World 
Series ring.
The main problem with Boston is pitch­
ing. It stinks! Besides John Tudor (13-10, 
3.63) and Dennis Eckersley (13-13,3.73) they 
don’t have a starter worth looking at. Houk 
relies a lot on a tough bullpen led by Bob
Get that
GM“X” Look,
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
• ••
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-1LOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
urcOTnm
M°n . Tues . Wed. 10-7 
T^ur».. Fn 10-9 
Sai 9-6607-3500 
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
0REOSON MMVUTTB6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Stanley (12-7, 3.10), Mark Clear (14-9, 3.00), 
and Luis Aponte (2-2,3.18). However, with­
out lefty Tom Burgmeier, this pen won’t be 
as effective. Strenghts — power, bullpen, 
experience. Weaknesses — starting pitch­
ing, shortstop, catching, speed, depth. 
Prediction - The games at Fenway will be 
high scoring as always, but the Red Sox will 
be on the long end of more of them this year.
6) Cleveland Indians - What’s the sense of 
being an Indian fan? Every year since the 
late fifties, the Tribe hasn’t even come close 
to winning. In the last seven years, this team 
has been so mediocre that its records have 
been within ten wins erf each other. Unfortu­
nately, its been around the .500 mark. And I 
thought Mets’ fans were patient!
Anyway, how do things look for the ‘83 
Indians? Better than last year, I guess. On 
the mound, Bert Blyleven (2-2, 4.87) has 
returned to the starting rotation which 
should solid when combined with Rkk Sut­
cliffe (14-8, 2.96), Len Barker (15-11, 3.90), 
and two veterans Lary Sorenson (10-15,5.61) 
and Juan Eichelberger (7-14, 4.20). Dan 
Spillner (12-10,2.49,21) did a bang up job in 
the bullpen but needs better work by lefty Ed 
Glynn (5-2, 4.17) for those numbers to 
improve.
The biggest acquisitions over the winter 
was acquiring Julio Franco (21, 66, .300 in 
AAA) and Manny Trillo (0,39, .271) to shore 
up a weak middle. This should help the 
pitchers because of an increase in double 
plays. A throw in in the trade who might 
help also is George Vuckovich (6, 42, .272) 
who is pendllied in as the starting left 
fielder.
The 0 revolves around Cleveland’s only 
two power hitters DH Andre Thornton (32, 
116, .273) and 3rd baseman Toby Harrah 
(25, 78, 304). They must hope new lead off 
hitter Mike Hargrove (4, 65, .271) gets on or continued on page 19
FOR THE LOOK YOU CAN LIVE WITH
EXPERIENCE PERSONAL DESIGNAt Hairmetric salons, you step into 
the center of a design process which tailors its artistry to harmonizing your features, chemistry and life style. Resulting in a look that's right for you.
Our skilled artisans, trained within our unique educa tional system, will confidently weave the strands of
artistic insights, scientific technology 
and contemporary trends into a fabric of personal rare 
for you and your hair. This is the kind of attention you desire.
Join us at Hairmetrics for the look you can livewith.
FOR HAIR THAT'S LOOKING GOOD!HaiRMeTRICS
BODY WAVES * HAIRCUTS * COLOR SERVICE
110 S. Bouquet Streef(Oakland) 
Phone:621-2087
k5:?M
k5:?
.bdLatnt TbAw Xo#t 
,oevg2n gbGAenebGeGj• qnwaeGj 
Bbv bGaw Vh_ 
bBBtv jbbA Bbv dtG D ObdtG ’ 5Lvea l!•lS­h 
M2qn ,o#t gb2LbG
ICELANDAIR IS STILL YOUR REST VALUE TO EUROPE
LUXEMBOURG
R0UNDTRIP
<489
FROM 
NEW YORK
*499
FROM
BALTIMORE/
WASHINGTON
‘531
FROM
CHICAGO
Super APEX Fares. April 1-April 30, 1983. 7-60 day stay, 14 day advance purchase required.
t2W C0ST SERV,CE T0 PARIS, FRANKFURT, AMSTERDAM AND NICE. AND, REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS:
B Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to Frankfurt, Düsseldorf, 
Cologne, Bitburg, Mannheim, Wuppertal and Kehl, Germany. B Bargain 
car rentals from $99/week in Luxembourg. ¦ Free wine with dinner cognac after.
Icelandair to Luxembourg. Luxair connecting service to other destinations 
(Chicago-Midweek Fare.) Purchase tickets in U.S. All faies subject to change and government approval. See your travel agent or call 800/555-1212 for the toll-free Icelandair number in your area.
ICELANDAIRNOW MORI THAN fVIR YOUR BiST VA LUI TO EUROPI

---------------------------------------------------

mttee report released; polity statement delayed
¦ Rosenfeld
with The Tartan Iasi 
President Richard Van 
a statement, of {x>licy
implications.'
Last Friday, Sauer and Midani took tour^ 
of department facili»
111
179, “strongly 1er as DepanmeiU Head 
eight-member commit- 
lat formal discussions 
miediately. The report 
>iniment of Professor 
lteniative, if an (agree- 
oukl not have been
x>rt stresses the com- 
the unprecedented
Congress makes
by Alice Alfonsi
Congress recently passed the college-aid 
bill, extending student aid and other higher 
education programs through fiscal I98.Y
Now public law. the $48.1 billion bill will 
inc rease interest rates on guarauutd student 
loans to 9%, from 7% in |iast law. Interest 
rates The the national direct student loans
%
%
0
0
Allegheny Women’s Center|an out palieiYI medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancyteJ
* personal counseling * birth controlservio
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center |
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both centers will be open daily tor pregnancy tests and coutw&4|
AlleghenyWomensCenter
Medical Center East Hi 
Penthouse Right (8th« 
211 North Whitfield ST 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Marcello's Typing Si
Spectmtizes in Word 
Processing
Theses—Manuscripts—Research/» 
papers—resumes/repetitive I 
(Turabian—APA—MLA strongly*
Fast Efficient Reasonat» 
Call Ms. West 371-36571 
(24 hour service) 
10% discount with coupor\
Now.. •
uOb pvtjGoGgw 
utqneGj :bgonebG
1oraoGARoom 212Parkvale Plaza Build|n^f 3520 Forbes Ave. (cor Pittsburgh, PA I52I3 (412) 683-3730
cbOGnbOG
QJomen's 625 Stanwtx Street
Health 
Services
00 Manwix T <jl12th Floor—AlleghenyPittsburgh, PA I5222 (4I2) 562-I9I4
Free pregnancy testing daily Call fo( instructions. Confidential counsel«!
Dr. Hans Bell*.
r £e Utg»( convocation of America j 
¡n P.f^urgh \
there's a kid who had a big hallucination...
pink floyd the final cut
a requiem for
the post war dream
Produced by Roger Waters, Junes Qiithne&nd Kfichauel Itamen 
-Columbia.'i^j are trademarks of CB6 Inc 1983CB8Inc

---------------------------------------------------

April 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 19
!
i:
from page 17
e will be no one to knock in. An 
jree year from Bake McBride (0, 13, 
jight also help, 
nding out starters wiH be Rick 
44, .270) in center and Chris 
/J 16, .212), Ron Hassey (5,34, .251), 
jn Essians (3, 20, .275) splitting the 
at catching. Strengths-Starting pitch­
ed defense on left side, outfield 
speed. Weaknesses-Depth through- 
iwer, left side infield defense. 
jon - There is potendal here for Mike 
s first year to be a success. Good 
and a potendal potent offense, 
who am I kidding. These are the 
„ A 500 year.
Leonard, long-time editor of The 
York Times Book Review and cur- 
taff writer and editor for the recently 
cted Vanity Fair magazine, will lec- 
the craft of wridng at CMU’s presen- 
of the Adamson Awards for 
nee in Wridng at 8 p.m. on April 18. 
emony will take place in the univer- 
,regg Hall. Admission is free. 
Adamson Awards honor Carnegie-
ue Jays in last place for one more year
7) Toronto Blue Jays - My apologies to 
Bobby Cox. Last year, I ripped apart this 
team in my preseason picks saying they had 
no hitung punch at all’. Well, I was sur­
prised as the next one when also rans Willie 
Upshaw (21,75, .267) and Jessie Barfield (18, 
58, .246) turned into sluggers. So why then 
am I still picking them for last place? 
Because, I still think everyone in the division 
has better talent then they do.
rhe places where Toronto is weak are 
three, catcher, third base, and shortstop. Cox 
platoons standouts Buck Marinez (10, 37, 
.242) and Ernie Whitt (11, 42, .261) behind 
the plate and Garth Iorg (1, 36, .285) and 
Ranee Mulliniks (4, 35, .244) at the hot 
comer because there’s no one better. Purely
wards to be given
mediocre. At short, the Blue Jays are stick­
ing with Alfredo Griffin (1, 48, .241) who 
can’t field while they are keeping a great 
talent Tony Fernandez down in AAA.
All-star Damaso Garcia (5, 42, .310) leads 
the rest of an above average lineup. Dave 
Collins (3, 25, .253) will benefit from the 
artificial turf and start in left. Cox will prob­
ably platoon in center Lloyd Moseby (9,52, 
.236) and Barry' Bonnel (6, 49, .293) while 
doing the same at DH with Cliff Johnson (7,
31, .238) and Jorge 6rta.
The team revolves around a starting three 
of Dave Stieb (17-14, 3.25), Jim Clancy (16- 
14,3.71), and Luis Leal (12-15,3.93) who are 
probably the best in the AL. Jim Gott (5-10, 
4.43) and Mike Morgan (7-11, 4.37) will fill 
the rest of the rotation. A weak bullpen, 
minus Dale Murray, will have to be handled
by Roy Jackson (8-8, 3.06) and Joey 
McLaughlin (8-6, 3.21). Strengths-Starting 
pitching, speed, depth (except pitching). 
Weaknesses-Bullpen, power, pitching 
depth, infield defense.
Prediction - A shallow pen will cause the 
Blue Jays to lose three or four less games. If 
they can ever acquire a quality catcher or 
third baseman, they will challenge.
GIVE TO THE * 
AMERICAN T« 
CANCER SOCIETY.
Mellon graduate and undergraduate stu­
dents who are gifted writers in poetry, 
fiction or non-fiction.
The awards are named for Pauline B. 
Adamson, late wife of CMU alumnus Clar­
ence H. Adamson. In her memory, he 
donated a substantial sum of money for the 
annual awards, for scholarships in the Eng­
lish department and for a new wing to Baker 
Hall.
PREPARE FOR
MCAT*LSAT «GMAT 
SAT'DAT’GRE’CPA
Wed. April 13 
Correlativism continues
Ward Tietz 
lat scribblings on a dirty page
24 hr. Ward sculpture at trackside under the Charles Anderson Bridge. First 
ght after Panther Hollow.
Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated full­time staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPc$wfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
• Opportunity to make up missed lessons.• Voluminous nome-study materials constantly updated by research­ers expert in their field.• Opportunity to transfer to-and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO • MAT • PCAT • OCAT • VAT • TOEFL 
MSKP • NMB • VQE • ECFMG • FLEX • NDB • NLE
Call Days Eve* S Wpfkoncts
^3fo*j2ey-HEssex House L12 KAPLUN Center, Negley & Baum
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
Spring Carnival 1983: Adventure
:acu/ty Egg Toss
RIDAY, APRIL 22 (1:00) Faculty members pair up to try 
ieir luck in a traditional egg toss. Whoever finishes without 
rambling their eggs will win: 
st Prize: lunch at the new Panther Hollow Inn 
nd Prize: lunch at C. J. Barney’s 
rd Prize: gift certificate from the Pitt Stop 
special prize will be awarded to the Eggheads who lose it first!
Team Competitions
RIDAY, APRIL 22 (2:00) AND SATURDAY, 
^RIL 23 (1:00) Teams of 4 girls and 4 guys will go through 
finy adventures in this two day competition. Events will 
'elude the Big Game Hunt, Egyptian Pyramid, Quest for the 
J°ly Grail, Giant 3-legged Monster Race, Battle for Survival 
nd Tornado. Teams must register by Friday, April 15. 
6 Teams.)
*aiders of the Lost Ark 
reasure Hunt
R1DAY, APRIL 22(12 )) Spring Carnival is a great time
r a little archeology. Anyone interested in being in the boots of 
^ana Jones should sign up by Friday, April 15. (Limit 150 
^viduals.)
Tug-of-War
E
V
E
N
T
S
SATURDAY, APRIL 23 (4:00) Adventure takes strength 
and cunning, so does TUG-OF-WAR! Teams of 9 people can 
dare to do it, but make sure you register by Friday, April 15.
Prizes will be awarded to the winners of each 
event
Registration can be done by signing up at Skibo 
Information Desk or by sending the following entry 
blank to Spring Carnival Events, Skibo Building. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTE OF REGISTRATION 
DEADUNES!
No exceptions will be made.
Please pick up rule sheets at Skibo Information 
Desk
Funded by Activities Fee
1983 Spring Carnival Events Entry Form
Name_____
Telephone 
Event (s)__
Team Members (if any) and Telephone Numbers:

---------------------------------------------------

You are cordially invited to
The H&SS Spring Fling Dinner-Dance
Friday, April 15, 1983 
7-12 pm
Carnegie Music Hall
Featuring
Tickets: Students - $6.50 
Faculty - $8.50 
Staff - $7.50
on sale at AAC-BH 161 or at Skibo Info Desk
George Gee and His Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra
Sponsored by the H&SS Dean’s Office 
and the H&SS Student Advisory Council
i>0 you like it rough??
If so. . .
Get your discount carnival ri< 
tickets on sale at the Skibo lnfo,rtn< 
tion Desk from 9 a.m., Mon., Apr.| 
through noon, Thurs., Apr. 21. 
Available only between 9 a.m. ai 
5 p.m.
Be Adventurous!
Funded by *
--pbppy-oo;-v

---------------------------------------------------

Apri! 12, 1983—The Tartan—Page 21
t annua! "Tartan " swimsuit pictorial
ATTENTION 
ALL SKIBO LOT 5 
PARKING PERMIT HOLDERS
No parking will be permitted in Lot 5 or the Skibo metered lot between Monday, April 18 at 3 o'clock p.m. and Sunday, April 24 at 8 p.m.
Please see the parking notices for alternate parking spaces. 
Thank you for your cooperation. The Spring Carnival Committee If you have any questions, call the Skibo Information Desk x2151.
pnuiu uy kJivvv * *
HERE, the ladies relax while enjoying the beautiful Florida sun.
AROUND THE WORLD STUDY 
Kyoto, Bali, Singpore, Benares,
Nairobi, Cairo, Jerusalem, London.
Applications are now being accepted for the 1983-84 International Honors 
Program. A unique educational experience, the International Honors Program 
provides selected university students the exceptional opportunity to study around 
the world for a full academic year.
International Honors Program scholars carry a full course load and are accom­
panied by a distinguished faculty. The 1983-84 program will explore how the 
societies listed above represent and interpret their cultures to outsiders and to 
themselves.
Participation is open each year to 30 qualified university students. Further 
information may be obtained from Dean Braden Walter, Office of Student Affairs, 
or b contacting the International Honors Program directly.
INTERNA TIONAL HONORS PROGRAM 
Suite 307-96 
1430 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
617-491-3120
$2000 OFF any purchase of prescription lens 
and frames
$1000OFF nonprescription sunglasses 
\ AhmayJAvemu
JJorman Childs r2ittsbumh/2a. 1$21J HOURS MWFS 10 AM 5PMj'torman j j, TH 10AM 8:30PM
Optician (412)422-5300
photo by Steve Winawer
Illustrated eat your heart out! Here our own professional beauties 
I their stuff on the beautiful sandy beaches of southern Florida.

---------------------------------------------------

look-out; He's 6or 
A MA6NET'
I WftUT Ifoo To Kuw
A ?Kowu\hGeSI x >
W*|NT ff MM -/I
wow. r1"*usw,
6RiffS
Do WHAT 
Hi V^IJi 
Do what 
Hi sftYs'''
Funnies.
Joe Freshman
LLELSEOd
OEr\^6NeT!Z£nAo
by Mark Levjj
/ NOWj X WWT
,rU PSeMG uwwy 
Ch8WHx­MxPm
Crossword
ACROSS 
1. Acknowledge 
5. Off
9. School of whales
12. Prevalent
13. Apportion
14. Compass pt.
15. Allude to 
17. In harmony
19. Standards of perfection
21. Repetition
22. Moccasins
24. Give — time
25. Mohammedan leader
26. Stout’s relative
27. On land
29. Fla’s neighbor
31. Neither’s companion
32. Chi.’s State
33. French article
34. Uncouth person
35. Tellurim symbol
36. Mixes
38. Concealed
39. Bitter vetch
40. Engineer’s deg.
41. Prohibits
42. Wings 
44. Fright 
46. Advance
48. King of birds
51. Hail!
52. Actor’s aim
54. Search for
55. Crimson
56. Paradise
57. Kilmer subject
DOWN
1. Timetable abbr1. ^ ?
2. Contend
3. Executive
4. Unwanted plants
5. Part of “to be”
6. Affluence
7. Siamese coins
8. Still
9. Italian seaport
10. Dillseed
11. Ancient Persian 
16. Scale note
18. Force onward 
20. Passageway
22. Gasp for breath
23. Century plant 
25. War god
27. (si ill
28. More ancient
29. Profit
30. Sums up
34. San Diego player
36. Concoct
37. Sewer’s need 
39. Having ears
41. Brag
42. At a distance
43. Affection
44. Walked on 4 *
45. Scale note 
47. Exist
49. Majors of TV
50. Piece out
53. Printer’s measure
Ipso Factoby Diane Thoi
Poindexterby Don Be)
Were covnes my 
CouX wonder 
Vies So t/psc-*-.
T:
-me ^xTçemw eæEN sißPK xI,
kmm• ?4.?pu $K uFBg eT/BgBavBQa5$ 
Y 5ufuF? D??Wh .?MBgBg***
SilGwr OBçneucTioM fir tme two tvueds 
Wa5Bm• uK-1gw .HXlM! 6u**
zbzff h zV oerE THtS
Thea fVTT...
CATION- woœyop

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.% _______________
eneral__________
p Credne, dean of the College of Humani- 
^d Social Sciences, will hold open office 
for students each Tuesday, 1:30-3:30 pm,
¡60-
mteers are needed to help nine:year-old Jodi 
h with her fight to walk again. Jodi was left 
brain damage as a result of a kidney disease 
tears ag°-Iier program runs six days/week, 
|/day bom 1 to 3 p.m. or 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. No 
rience is necessary. If you have love to give 
ijjne to share, please call 271-2191.
yent Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
s ior students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, May 2. Stu-
i who wish to meet with the president should 
hone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
intment.
Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
n. in the Wherrett Room. Students are 
d to come and address the senate during 
¦nee participation.
>ne who wants to have an active voice in
burgh’s future is welcome to meet the Demo- 
: and Republican candidates for City Coun- 
t the next meeting of Squirrel Hill NOW. 
meedng begins at 7:30 p.m. at the Sixth 
lyterian Church, Forbes and Murray, on 
day, April 12.
lemic Bag Ladies meet over lunch, Thurs- 
noon until 1 p.m. at the Lutheran Univer- 
inter, 4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland. Info:
¡886.
SDC/Student Senate Joint Committee on
puting is asking for student opinion on the 
puterization of CMU. Please leave opinions 
ie student senate mailbox addressed to the
nittee.
assifieds
ted Large refrigerator. Call x3535.
Great Dane/Shepherd puppies $35. Two 
females, three males. Call 767-8617.
FLYING FINGERS Word processing and typ­
ing. Student/academic rates. 241-1338.
Lost TI55 Calculator in WeH 5427. Reward 
offered for its return. Call x5981.
APARTMENT FGR SUBLET This is it! Spa­
cious, 2 br. apt available May 11 to Sept. 1. 
Option for fall. Furnished. 11 minutes from 
CMU. $400/month, utilities included. Parking, 
laundry available. Close to Shadyside shopping. 
Call 681-5127 after 6 p.m. or send mail to 
RV04@tcL Call soon though!
Apartment for rent New listing. Large furnished 
and unfurnished 2 bedroom apartments with 
a/c, modem kitchen and security system. Availa­
ble for September at 414 North Neville St $405- 
$500. 421-5567.
Secure apartments for September now. Studios 
and 1-bedrooms. Walking distance to university. 
361-5792 and 621-2655.
Summer, (all rentals Rooms are large, clean, 
sunny, carpeted and quiet in a coed house. Ten 
minutes from CMU. Three baths, two kitchens. 
For people that want high QPA’s. $140-$190 & 
everything included. Call Mr. Whalen at 683- 
2589.
Immediate — sublet with fall option! 1 br. in 4 br.
furnished house. 2 min. CMU, lOmin. Pitt. Male 
or female. Rent negotiable. 683-9834 after 6 p.m.
Word Pros 327-7268. Word Processing Special­
ists. Term Papers, theses, resumes. Pick­
up/delivery. Special student rates. Phone 
answers 24 hours.
Wanted: Tutoring in COBOL programming
Must have completed course. Phone 441-5366. 
Start your income now.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Wanted: used textbooks Get immediate cash for 
your used textbooks. Call 687-5371 or come to 
5533 Ellsworth Ave. #201.
clubs
AIESEC invites students of all majors to attend 
meetings at 4:30 on Wednesday in Skibo 11 ex', for 
more information, stop by the office (Skibo 57) 
any time.
SCRIPT REVIEW is coming! Scotch ’n’ Soda 
will be holding its annual review of scripts for 
next year on April 19th. If you will not have a 
completed script, please bring a plot synopsis, a 
few pages of dialogue and a character sketch. If 
you will be submitting a musical, bring a sample 
of the music. Watch this space and the SNS office 
door for time and place. Don’t forget to get Car­
ried Away!
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9 p.m., in Room 39 Skibo. It 
is non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club Learn to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3-4:30 p.m., Thistle Hall 
(Gym). Beginners Welcome!
events
Design Research Center Distinguished Lecturer 
Series Dr. Arthur Westerberg, head of the depart­
ment of chemical engineering, will speak on the 
the topic of “Synthesis in Process Design” on 
Monday, April 25, at 3:30 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo Hall. A reception for Dr. Wester­
berg will follow.
Correlativism continues Wed. April 13. Ward 
Tietz “Flat scribbling on a dirty page,” a 24 hr. 
word sculpture at trackside under the Charles 
Anderson Bridge. First right after Panther 
Hollow.
If you’re a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
what’s stopping you from getting the American Express' Card ?
You guessed it.
Nothing.
Because American Express believes in your future. But more than that. We believe 
in you now. And we’re proving it.
A $10,000 job promise. That’s it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is 
even good for 12 months after you graduate.
Biit why do you need the American Express Card now?
First of all, it’s a good way to begin to establish your credit history. And you 
know that’s important.
Of course, the Card is also good for travel, restaurants, and shopping for things 
like a new stereo or furniture. And because the Card is recognized and welcomed 
worldwide, so are you.
So call for a Special Student Application 
or look for one at your college bookstore or on 
campus bulletin boards.
The American Express Card. Don’t leave 
school without it.'
Call today for an application: 
800-528-8000.
The Return of the Pint Panther, starring Peter 
Sellers, will be shown tonight at 6:30,9, and 11:30 
in DH 2210. Tickets are $1.00. Sponsored by the 
Society of Physics Students.
Student Piano Recital Lawrence Goldberg and 
John Rusnak will play their junior recital 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
College of Fine Arts. The program will include 
works by Bach, Beethoven, Rachmaninoff, Pro­
kofiev, and Balada.
Hie Carnegie-Mellon Philharmonic, under the 
direction of Werner Torkanowsky, will present a 
concert performance erf George Gershwin’s folk 
opera Porgy and Bess at 8 p.m., Sunday, April 24, 
at Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. Music depart­
ment vocal students will join the orchestra for the 
performance. The program will also include 
Debussy’s La Mer and Faure’s Ballade for Piano 
and Orchestra. Nelson Whitaker, CMU piano 
professor, will be piano soloist. The concert is 
open to the public free erf charge.
Pro-Life Film Series Our final two films will be 
presented tonight, April 12, at 8:30 in the More- 
wood Rec Room. The films are I’d Love Her 
Back, Though and A Life Too Brief. These focus 
on the fact abortion destroys human life. Admis­
sion is free, and all are welcome to attend. Spon­
sored by the CMU Association for Life.
“Freedom, Feminism, and the Tolling Bell”
Mary Winter, executive director of People Con­
cerned for the Unborn Child and a member of the 
board of Feminists for Life, will talk on feminism 
and the pro-life movement. Come hear her on 
Monday, April 18, at 8 p.m. in Skibo Room 12. 
Sponsored by the CMU Association for Life. It’s 
free and everyone is welcome to attend.
Pregnant?
And you djdn't 
mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright on !_l flS­­
p$?xW5Wu3 .oae ono 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391 -4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa­
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
5:u?$W5uRC?k u1 5T1$uR1W 
RW.a non-profit organization
u,t :eBt 1B 
kn* Jb,G Tbqgbi 
u,t IvetGA 
1B Pb2n,
A movie to be shown in 
Synod Hall, 125 N. Craig 
St. 7 P.M., Friday, April 
15th. All are welcome. A 
donation of $2.00 is 
requested. The sponsor is 
the University Catholic 
Club.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24—The Tartan—April 12, 1983
CALL 571-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
A charismatic 
prayer meeting 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information; 
262-3950.
Officer Kat or the rat:Vote for your masco
animated cartoons, it does come alive.) Pitt 
has its panther. Duquesne has its dukes. 
Pittsburgh has the Steelers. We have a non­
living rag.
We need a mascot. Officer Kat. Yes, 
Officer Kat could be kept in his own special 
box complete with Tartan sweater for cold 
outdoor football games. On its box would
be painted our Tartan. He would symbol 
the school. And he could represent thec 
puters which this school is so famous [ 
He would be trained to punch a button e 
would weigh and record each catch 1 
could be touted by the university as an, 
inovation in biological training and ca 
puter engineering.
Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage Co 
announces summer season
By Orpheus Allison
As Tartan reporter Clarke Simmons 
stated, rats have been sighted around Skibo. 
Food service has acted quickly on this issue 
by calling the exterminator to make sure 
that the rats do not infect our 
food. Not that it needs any help. 
As those of us who have hired 
exterminators know, they are 
expensive. Now, suppose that for the one 
time call for the reported rat citings, and the 
follow-up treatments weekly, that the cost is 
say roughly 2000 dollars.
Now, all of us realize that everyone is 
having to cut back a little. Our food costs are 
going up by an average of seven percent next 
year. So why should we pay 2000 dollars to 
kill rats? I am proposing that the Student 
Senate appropriate twenty dollars to buy a 
feline to protect our food.
Good, I am glad to see you laughing. All 
is not bad. Think about it. Since this critter 
would be safeguarding our food, it would 
come under the campus police. Officer Kat, 
officer in charge of rat eradication. Under 
penalty of being sent back to the ASPCA, 
the said officer would be stationed behind 
Kiltie on a twenty-four hour guard of our 
food. His collar would contain his badge. 
Good, more laughs. Keep it coming.
We could rest assured that some of our
pre-school kids out on recess would not 
accidentally pick up the rat poison. I do not 
think that the university would like to pay 
for a child who ate the poison intended for 
the rat.
Also, at a one time allocation, the cat 
would provide an economical and ecologi­
cally sound extermination system. There 
would be no poisonous residue that contam­
inates somebody’s dump. The waste by­
products are bio-degradable and have the 
added property of adding nutrients to the 
soil. Poisons may add nutrients to the soil, 
but in a form that is perhaps not as useful to 
the plant as Officer Kat’s contribution.
In addition, while present extermination 
systems require an almost constant checking 
on the contents to see whether they have 
been eaten or not, Officer Kat could be 
trained to deposit the nefarious Bandicoots 
in certain pre-designated areas.
Now, of course, the quesdon arises as to 
why we should even have a cat. This should 
be mulled over. At present, this school’s mas­
cot is the non-living entity of a bag pipe, 
which is closely linked to the Scottish line­
age of our founder. There is also the Tartan 
which compromises the design of the fabric 
of the bag pipe. Now how do you expect the 
students to rally around a bag pipe? Or a 
tartan? It is not alive, (though in certain
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFEUNE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Ready for Finals?
Free personal tutoring available. 
For more information contact Ami 
Ciric
Monday-Thursday 7-10 p.m. in PH 
126A •
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage Com­
pany, an Actors’ Equity group in residence 
at Camegie-Mellon University, will expand 
its summer season to five plays this year, 
according to artistic director David Ball, 
CMU associate professor of drama.
The Metro, as the company is know, will 
perform A Coupla White Chicks Sitting 
Around Talking by CMU alumnus John 
Ford Noonan, May 21 to June 4; a world 
premiere, Ladies at Play by David Ball, June 
11-25; The Columbia Encyclopedia Pres­
ents Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland, also by 
Ball, July 2-16; The Fourposter by Jan de 
Hartog, July 23-August 6; and Matrix by 
Barbara Field, August 13-27.
The premiere, Ladies at Play, is a psycho­
logical war set in a Connecticut sanitarium.
Matrix brings together five characters h 
queens from the Book of Esther, two worn 
from Mozart’s Don Giovanni, and A] 
Pleasance Liddell, the woman Lewis 0 
roll immortalized in Alice in Wonderla 
Playwright Field’s show, described as« 
sual and literate, premiered in Minneapo 
played off-Broadway, and recently wonfi 
prize in the play competition conducted 
the Actors’ Theatre of Louisville.
Metro performances will take place in 
Studio Theater, adjacent to the College 
Fine Arts at CMU.
The Metro’s company includes Q 
seniors Laura San Giacomo and Risa Bi 
nin, CMU music theater coordinatorMyi 
Nadel, as well as Shirley Tannenbai 
Susan Chapek, Maryann Lippay, Stei 
Levy, Koni McCurdy and David Kuhns
For further information, contact 
Metro box office at 661-2423.
