\•>CMU Charged with Sex Discrimination
Two former employees of the univer­
sity, Dr. Peggy Sanday and Patricia 
Carlson, have filed a suit in Federal District 
Court against CMU. They allege that CMU 
has discriminated in employment on the 
basis of sex as defined under Title VII 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
John E. Hackett, legal counsel for
* fcarnegie-Mellon University issued the
court denying the allegations and is await­
ing further action on this matter by the 
federal district court.” He refused to com­
ment further on the case. Currently, the 
court has not yet looked into these 
motions. The matter may go to court by 
the middle of November.
Dr. Sanday was Assistant Professor 
of Anthropology at SUPA, and Mrs. 
Carlson was Research Proposal Coordinator 
for the Proposal Information Office at 
Warner Hall.
Mrs. Carlson declined to comment 
until she could reach her lawyer. Her 
statement was unavailable for publication.
Dr. Sandy, now teaching at the Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania was unavailable for
comment. Mrs. Carlson is currently em­
ployed by Duquesne University.
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act deals 
with Equal Employment Opportunity. It 
outlaws unfair employment practices, such 
as not hiring a person because of race, 
color, national origion, sex, or religion; 
discrimination against him with respect to 
pay, conditions of employment, or refer­
ences. Pennsylvania has had a Fair Employ­
ment Practices Law since 1955, but it out­
lawed only age discrimination and unequal 
pay for equal work.
The act states that parties found in 
violation of the law may be ordered to 
take “such affirmative action as may be 
appropriate, which may include rein­S tartan
October 14, 1975 Volume 76 Number 6
O'Bannon Nominated For PUC
by Thomas Kendig
Helen O’Bannon, Associate Dean of 
CIT, has been nominated by Pennsylvania 
Governor Milton Shapp to be a new 
member of the Public Utilities Commission.
The PUC is a board of five members 
that acts “to regulate the utilities by ap-
Holen O'Bannon Photo by Fred Shamlian
proving all rates and tariffs charged” by 
the electric companies as well as water, 
taxi, sewer, and interstate bus fares. Ms. 
O’Bannon sees it “acting as a market place 
for a monopoly.” She also feels the com­
mission has to be open to the problems and 
needs of industry but its first reponsibility 
is to protect the consumer.
There is a long history of problems 
dealing with appointments to the board. 
The board at present only has three mem­
bers. Herbert Dennenburg was Governor 
Shapp’s first nomination for the position 
but was later rejected by the State Senate. 
Shapp then designated Philip P. Kalodner 
as the new PUC chairman. Kalodner asked 
that his name be withdrawn after the 
Senate delayed several months in acting on 
his confirmation. The Senate would not 
confirm Kalodner until Shapp first nomin­
ated former Majority Leader Thomas P. 
Lamb to fill the other PUC vacancy. Ms. 
O’Bannon was nominated in the hope of 
appeasing all sides because of her non-po­
litical nature. Her nomination was submit­
ted last Monday. On Friday, Michael John­
son, a labor leader of the AFL-CIO (Vice 
President of the Pennsylvania State 
Branch) was nominated for the other posi­
tion. Mr. Johnson is active in the Democra­
tic Party and is expected to be approved 
readily.
Ms. O’Bannon’s qualifications and re­
sponsibilities as associate Dean make her 
very valuable to the university. As Dean 
Toor put it, “She is a key person and will 
be hard to replace.” The PUC position is 
a $24,000 a year full time job although 
some members do hold another job. This 
creates a conflict, according to Mrs. O’Ban­
non. “This (meaning the Assistant Dean- 
ship) offers me the best job I could imagine 
... 1 love my job.” If she feels, though, 
that the PUC position will require all her 
time, she will resign from CMU. But on 
the other hand, if she feels she will have 
time to continue some of her responsibili­
ties at CMU, she will remain and maintain 
as much of the responsibility as possible; 
the rest being distributed among the rest of 
the people in the Dean’s Office. Dean Toor 
stated, “She will have to decide how much 
time the job will require and then make the 
decision which alternative to take.”
Dean Toor is not very worried about the 
situation at present. If Ms."’ O’Bannon’s 
nomination is not voted on this week, the 
Legislature goes on recess until January un­
less they call an additional session in No­
vember. This would mean Ms. O’Bannon 
will more than likely be with CMU for at 
least the rest of the semester. Although 
there are no guarantees that her nomina­
tion would be approved, her chances did 
improve with the nomination of Johnson.
Ms. O’Bannon was recently approached 
by the Concerned Tax Payers of Allegheny 
County and the Alliance for Consumer Pro­
tection and was asked if she would serve on 
the Board. Due to her interest in 
consumer protection, she accepted
She commented that she is “nominally 
a Democrat and votes both sides” and is 
generally a non-political person, hopefully 
exempting her from all the political 
turmoil previously associated with the 
nominations.
She is also an economist, which makes 
her a desirable candidate for a 
position which can affect prices.
Ms. O’Bannon’s present responsibilities 
in the university have to do with Budget 
and Finance for CIT. She may administer 
restricted accounts and computer budgets, 
approve research budgets and personnel 
appointments and advise the dean on finan­
cial matters such as budgets, salaries, 
financial implications of tenure decisions, 
research income and expenditures. She 
was hired by the university in April 1973 
as Assistant Dean and was madeAssociate 
Dean in 1974.
She has a BA from Wellesley College in 
Economics and was the first women to go 
through Stanford University for a MA in 
Economics. She is presently a part time 
mother of 4 children and has authored 2 
books.
Crime Causes Lockup
by Paul Smith
The effects of the rising crime rate in 
the Pittsburgh area, has finally made itself 
felt here on the CMU campus. Not only in 
the closing of the Fine Arts building at 
night, but in two rather serious attacks on 
students.
The Fine Arts building will be closed to 
all people from midnight to 8:00 am, ev­
ery night including weekends. No one will 
be allowed to enter the building after 
11:00 pm. The Fine Arts building, with 
its many dark corners, makes an excellent 
site for an outsider to attack a student 
late at night. However, it is possible for a 
class or a group of students to work there, 
provided they have a teacher or grad stu­
dent with them and a signed note from 
the department head, in the dean’s office 
before 4:30 pm on the day in question.
During the first week of school, Sept. 8, 
a grad student was robbed at gun point in 
the Science Hall elevator, late at night. The 
concern which the Director of Security 
feels can be summed up by this quote, “One 
serious crime against a student is one too 
many.”
On Saturday, October 4, a girl on tier 
way to the girl’s room in Donner Hall was 
accosted by a stranger who made threat­
ening advances. She fled down the steps to 
the next floor screaming. Security was call­
ed but by the time they arrived the suspect 
had disappeared.
statement or hiring of employees, with or 
without back pay (payable by the employ­
er, employment agency, or labor organiza­
tion, as the case may be, responsible for 
the unlawful employment practice).”
However, section 702 of the act 
appears to exempt the University from 
court action. It specifically states that 
Title VII of the act does not apply “to 
an educational institution with respect to 
the employment of individuals to perform 
work connected with educational activities 
of such institution”.
Darkroom Ready
by Claire Lee
Within the next week or two, the long 
awaited Student Dorm Council Photo­
graphy Darkroom will finally be opened 
for student use. It is located in the east 
wing basement of Donner Hall.
Its completion is mainly the result of 
the determination and patient efforts of 
two CMU students, Bob Linn and Bruce 
Hamady. Two years ago Bob Linn recog­
nized the possibility of converting the 
steam pipe room in Donner Hall into a 
student darkroom. Along with many oth­
ers, Linn began making dramatic changes in 
the room, such as the insulation of the “in- 
ferno-temperatured” pipes, the installation 
of an air-conditioner and ventilation fans, 
and the initial painting of the room. At 
this time, most of the funds came from the 
Housing Office and the ventilation machin­
ery from wherever they could get it.
In 1974, Bob proposed to SDC that it 
provide $750 to buy the necessary photo 
graphic equipment. The budget was ap­
proved and major purchases and the paint­
ing of the room was finally begun. Along 
with Bob (who has now graduated), Bruce 
Hamady has worked on the darkroom with 
the hope of future expansions. He and his 
helpers are how putting the finishing 
touches on the darkroom.
The room will initially be equipped with 
one enlarger for black and white work. 
Students will have to provide their own 
chemicals as none will be stocked. Since 
the darkroom is completely funded by 
SDC, the facility will be open to dorm resi 
dents only.
With nearly $1,200 worth of equipment 
involved, the problem of security is still in 
the solution-seeking process. As of now, 
each piece of equipment and instrument is 
continued on page 5
Photo by Elliot Popowitz
Diehard Tech fans showing their dis­
dain at the recently painted TARTANS 
sign, appeared early Saturday morning to 
add to it their own touch. Only a few 
privileged early-risers were able to see the 
revised sign before the "greenmen" arrived 
to return it to its original state.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
editor’s note
LESS MAJORS 
MORE HUMANISTS
There has been a persistent controversy, of late, charging 
the administration with draining the “H” out of H&SS, yet 
few people have considered this option with more than an 
emotional reaction.
The New York Times stated that “Carnegie -MelIon’s pro­
grams —emphasizing engineering, computer science, drama, 
music, art and business administration — are eclectic and 
highly professionally oriented.
‘We could easily have drifted into comprehensiveness but 
we made a point of saying we are not going to be everything 
to everybody, Mr. Cyert said. ’”
Instead of Carnegie -Mellon continuing to pretend that a 
strong humanity program can be sustained at this university, 
it should consider, as Dr. Cyert has, that “We are not going 
to be everything to everybody,” and realize that this is not 
the institution to be at for a strong humanity background.
Students tend to be egocentric. They use the reasoning: 
“/ am interested in the Liberal Arts, / am at Carnegie -Mel­
lon, therefore, Carnegie -Mellon should have a good Liberal 
Arts program” instead of "/ am interested in the Liberal 
Arts, X University is very strong in the Liberal Arts, / should 
be at X University. "
It is apparent that the humanity programs within the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences are not of a equal 
caliber with the other departments of this institution. It 
should also be realized, as / believe Dr. Cyert has, that the 
only way a private institution is going to survive is by 
achieving excellence above and beyond what is offered at the 
public institutions.
/ am not suggesting that CMU abandon the humanities 
and devote all its efforts to creating "rational, analytical” 
beings, but rather that these departments phase out their 
Liberal Art degree programs and devote themselves to both 
servicing the rest of the university and granting professionally 
oriented degrees such as Technology and the Humanities or 
Technical Writing. The departments of English, History and 
Philosophy, and Modern Lanquage should abandon their 
attempts at competing with the Liberal Arts and Public In- 
situtions and concentrate on providing strong humanistic 
backgrounds for the engineering, science and Fine Arts stu­
dents who are presently going through school with very little 
in the way of a humanist education.
Professor Lincoln Wolfenstein commented in a recent let­
ter to the FOCUS: “As a physicist, exicited by the truly 
wonderful triumphs of the scientific method, / am continual­
ly aware of its limitations. What students on this campus lack 
is not a course in problem-solving but rather a better ground­
ing in the humanistic traditions of mankind. ”
/ am not suggesting that CMU tone down the intesity of 
its technical and artistic programs, but rather that it offer a 
concurrently strong support program which teaches writing,. 
literature, history and language. The “H” should not be 
removed from H&SS but rather this University should stop 
trying to be something it is not. Instead of attempting to 
compete with the surplus of Liberal Arts Institutions, CMU 
should devote its efforts towards improving its already strong 
“professional” schools. The humanities must be enhanced at 
CMU, although not through the granting of additional 
English degrees. (Gy
\—“/"“", —.T/"“.— V— h.—/"J
One of the things / always enjoyed about Carnegie-Mel- 
lon, something that most of my friends at other instiutions 
said wasn’t the case at their school, was the fact that no mat­
ter how late it was, you could always wander into an aca­
demic building and find yourself a classroom or workspace in 
which to complete those last minute projects or study for 
those all-to-many examinations. Yet it now seems that this 
privledge is being removed. Fine Arts is now under lock and 
key where only the Security Guards and duly registered 
artists dare roam. God help the art student whose inspiration 
comes after the curfew.
Gary Singer, Editor
TVh JratJuafihj wirh
4 sfa 4 sfa, beae see
Wut” becorvn'rtq fqrbc»u5 —
X heard XVieirewCr'f
openings ?¦
letters
“SEEMED RATHER DULL” 
Editor:
Triggered both by my atten­
dance at the National Merit 
Scholars reception and the arti­
cle about the reception in the 
Sept. 30 Tartan, I would like 
to express some thoughts on the 
subject. First of all, I would 
have liked to meet the anony­
mous student who said the ma­
jority of the people at the re­
ception “seemed rather dull” 
because he or she was probably 
one of the most observant per­
son present. Of course they are 
dull; they think the value of 
pi out to ten decimals and the 
atomic weights of all the ele­
ments in the Lanthanide series 
are the most important things 
to know about life. The stud­
ents are not completely to 
blame, though; this university in­
doctrinates the students to be­
lieve that the purpose of “educa­
tion” is to teach young adults 
the art of “getting ahead” in a 
capitalistic society, which means 
(for all you would-be Einsteins) 
how to make money.
As for President Cyert’s 
speech, the quoted phrase in the 
Tartan should suffice as a good 
example of what the speech 
contained. The quote was, “if
you ever feel you aren’t getting 
the kind of education you want 
here, please see me— because 
you’re the kind of people we 
want CMU to serve.” I guess 
the administration wants Schol­
ars to get a low quality educa­
tion which has resulted from an 
increased student body and a 
decreased faculty number. May 
I suggest that the best way to 
get knowledge on how to make 
money is to observe the admin­
istration: they may not know 
academic affairs, but they can­
not be beat when it comes to in­
creasing profits.
Most of the administration- 
student dialogue at the recep­
tion consisted of “Where are you 
living?”, “What’s your major?”, 
and “You have to study pretty 
hard here, don’t you?”. Why 
weren’t these meaningless, trivial 
discussions replaced by some­
thing such as “What are your 
opinions on tenure?”, “What 
should be done to improve 
CMU?”, and “Should the stu­
dents have a more important 
part in formulating University 
policy?”. Of course, that would 
show that the administration is 
recognizing student intelligence. 
So while in speeches, Merit 
Scholars are told how brilliant 
they are, in reality the adminis­
tration thinks that no student,
not even what they consider to 
be the upper echelon of the 
students, is capable of enough 
intelligence to handle truly im­
portant matters. I am now aware 
of where the student body 
stands in the eyes of the admin­
istration. '
Samuel Grego
ARCHITECTS COMPLAIN 
Editor:
•. In the October 7th issue of 
the Tartan, Dr. Richard Van 
Horn states that, “Complaints 
from the Architecture depart­
ment should be ending if they 
have not already. Because of the 
remodeling and various other 
kinds pf work done to the area, 
some.work and drawing rooms 
were not finished at the begin-- 
ning of the* school year, this re­
sulted in ar serious shortage of 
space for the students forcing 
people to get necessary work 
done in limited areas. Word., 
received from Van Horn is that 
the work is now all done and the 
improvements were worth the 
cost.”
As of October 10, this state­
ment is still not accurate. While 
most of the money appropiated 
Continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
October 14, 1975Number 6
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor:Charles Mitch 
Entertainment EditorMark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor:Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor:Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebo- 
vitz, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie —Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to .. 
or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carne­
gie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [412] 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; [412] 682-4557.
________ ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975-Page 3
View From Warner Hall: The University and the Intellect
I am pleased to have the 
opportunity to talk with all of 
you. You are an extremely 
important part of this Univer­
sity, and we are particularly in­
terested in seeing that as new­
comers to the campus you have 
a good opportunity to start 
things off in the right direction.
The step that you have taken 
in coming to the University is 
clearly one of the most 
important actions that you have 
taken in your lifetime to date. 
The step toward a college degree 
is a critical decision to invest 
time and money in the improve­
ment of your own capabilities. 
By making the decision to come 
here, you have implicitly 
decided that you wish to 
develop your mind, and in some 
cases physical skills, ii. a partic­
ular direction. Just as a company 
may decide to invest in a 
machine, you as an individual 
have made a decision to invest in 
your own intellectual 
development.
There are many reasons 
among you why you have 
decided to receive a higher edu­
cation. One might be for 
economic reasons to improve 
your ability to make a living. 
Another reason might be 
because your family believes in 
higher education . and your par­
ents want you to be here. A 
third reason could be a great 
interest in some field of study 
you wish to pursue. Whatever 
the reason, you are here to 
obtain knowledge and skills. 
Please remember that this is 
your objective. Do not get your 
objectives confused. If you can 
remember your objectives and 
put them clearly in your mind, 
you are going to have a much 
greater chance of succeeding 
and you will have a good cri­
terion for deciding on the kind 
of behavior that you wish to 
follow as you proceed during 
your period here.
I come before you, however, 
not to convert you but to help 
you understand the nature of 
universities in general and of this 
one in particular. Universities 
deal in ideas. That characteristic 
is their hallmark. The ideas in 
most cases come from the past. 
They are the ideas embodied in 
the accrued knowledge of the 
world. We humans make 
progress by standing on the 
shoulders of our forefathers. 
One of your objectives should be 
to make a contribution to 
society that will enable those 
who come after you to benefit.
When I use the word “idea,” 
it should be understood that I 
include artistic ideas in my 
meaning. Painting, design, music, 
drama, and architecture are all 
based on ideas. When I talk 
about a contribution to new 
knowledge I include cultural and 
artistic contributions in new 
knowledge.
Some of the ideas we deal in 
are new, although we have to be 
careful when we use the word
new in relation to idea. Someone 
will almost certainly 
demonstrate that somebody 
dead had that idea, if not pre­
cisely in the same form, at 
least in essence. If someone dead 
didn’t have the idea it is almost 
certain somebody living will 
claim ownership. Of course, all 
of us like to receive credit, but 
one of the diseases of those who 
deal in ideas is the feeling of 
proprietorship of them. To illus­
trate my point, let me read an 
excerpt from a letter. I received 
recently from a friend of mine, 
a professor at an Eastern 
university, who commented on 
an article Professor Morris 
DeGroot and I had written.
“There are two minor 
observations. You begin by 
noting that ‘previously, duopoly 
was viewed simply as a one- 
period maximization problem. ’ 
It may well be that you have 
never seen my book. I did, 
however, devote half of that 
book specifically to long-horizon 
oligopolistic competition.
Another minor detail concerns 
your reference to another author 
and the coefficient of coopera­
tion. If he had bothered to read 
his class notes in 1962 or 1963, 
he might, have observed that I 
pointed out that in 1889 Edge- 
worth defined this parameter 
and called it “the coefficient of 
concern. ”
Rare is the professor who has 
written something who does not 
feel somebody is plagiarizing 
him, or at least not paying 
proper respect to his or her 
contribution.
Why do we see this kind of 
proprietary attitude toward 
ideas? Part of the reason is 
obviously ego, but the more im­
portant reason is that ideas are 
valuable. It is ideas that are 
responsible for the high level of 
material comfort that our 
society has attained. It is 
successful ideas that give us 
some of our greatest moments of 
satisfaction. Throughout history 
it is for ideas that men and 
women have been willing to give 
their lives.
You entered this world when 
you walked through the 
mythical doors of this Univer-
tf we have done a proper job 
with our curricula, you will be­
come a rational, analytic being 
as a result of your education:
sity. Your past education has 
enabled you to peek through the 
windows or the keyhole of the 
warehouse of ideas. In the four 
years ahead of you we hope to 
bring you to the point where 
you can master complex ideas 
and apply them in the various 
ways that are of interest to you. 
Judging from the accomplish­
ments of some of our alumni I 
know you will be able to do so. 
A few years ago a young student 
in the College of Fine Arts wrote 
and directed a play for his 
master’s degree. The play went
directly from the campus to 
New York and then around the 
world. It finally became a film.
T!ie play was called “Godspell.” 
Another alumnus, one that 
graduated in the thirties, applied 
the principles of fluid dynamics 
to cure a physical problem 
from which he suffered. The 
problem stemmed from the fact 
that the pressure of his blood in 
the veins of his leg was so strong 
that it leaked through the walls 
of the veins and into the tissues 
of his legs. After three 
operations failed to solve the 
problem, he cured himself. He 
used the bladders from the 
inside of footballs encased 
around his leg to equalize 
the pressure on the tissues with 
that on the veins. He later 
formed a successful company 
utilizing this and other engineer­
ing ideas in the health area. A- 
nother graduate, this one from 
metallurgy, formed his own steel 
company and made it so success­
ful that it is valued in the 
millions of dollars. I might add 
that he has recently decided to 
leave the entire business to this 
University after the death of 
himself and his wife. There are 
thousands more such success 
stories.
Economic improvement 
through ideas is not the sole ob­
jective, however. One of the
most important reasons for 
studying ideas of the past is 
to gain a better understanding of
yourself. Sometimes such under­
standing can be gained through 
the study of literature and bio­
graphy; sometimes through the 
study of psychology; and some­
times by putting yourself on the
letters
Continued from page two
for the project has been, used 
the senior class still does hot 
have useable drafting space in 
this remodeled area, and the 
junior class is forced into an area 
which is inadequate to accom­
modate the number of students 
working in that area.
On October 2, Mr. Highlands, 
head of the department and 
partner of the firm of Highlands 
and Gilberti, architects for the 
project, called a meeting of the 
junior and senior classess to 
explain the lack of suitable 
work space for both classes. In 
this meeting it was explained 
that while the majority of work 
is finished there are still jobs to 
be completed. The general con- 
tracter will still be back to finish 
various areas of the project still 
incomplete at this time. Because 
of budgeting problems, the 
drafting tables, stools, and lamps
line as you have by coming to a 
school that puts a high value on 
the intellect. Another important 
reason is to learn how to 
function as good citizens. To do 
so you must understand the 
economic and political systems 
of the country. Still another 
reason for being here is to 
develop enough mastery in a 
field so that you can develop 
new knowledge in that area.
Above all, however, if you are 
successful in your attempt to get 
an education at this University 
you will become an intellectual 
in the best sense of that term. 
You will become a person who 
uses rational, analytic methods 
to cope with your enviroment. 
You will understand the 
difference between fact and 
value judgement. At the same 
time, you will be capable of 
appreciating emotional elements 
and integrating them into your 
thinking. In otheT words, you 
will become a person who 
approaches all problems with 
your head rather than your 
emotions, prejudices, or the 
stereotypes of the society. We 
want to help you become this 
kind of person. If we have done 
a proper job with our curricula, 
you will become a rational, 
analytic being as a result of your 
education.
Why do I place such emphasis 
on the use of reason? It is only 
through such use that mankind 
can hope to solve the problems 
facing us currently and that will 
face us* in the future. In 
addition, by its use we can 
create the kind of society that 
enables all of its members to 
develop to their full capabilities.
' University through you can 
to make such a contribu- 
ion. My best wishes for a pro­
ductive and enjoyable four 
years, followed by a lifetime of 
important achievements.
Richard M. Cyert 
President, CMU
were not ordered until late in 
the summer. Consequently, de­
liveries were trickling in on the 
second, with 8 of the 20 tables 
scheduled for delivery that day 
actually arriving.
While work may be complete 
in budgetary terms it can be seen 
by anyone who walks through 
the second floor (or fourth floor 
as it is now named) that the 
work can not be considered 
“all done” until students are 
able to use the work space. Not 
having work space after nearly 
half a semester has elapsed has 
caused serious problems for 
those students who have design 
projects due for their professors 
and yet still do not have ade­
quate space to work. The junior 
and senior classes in the depart­
ment all hope that this situation 
will be rectified long before this 
appears in the Tartan.
The Junior and Senior Class
Department of Architecture

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
announcements
“Preview of THE SEAGULL". OPEN TO
ALL STAFF, FACULTY & STUDENTS. 
No ticket necessary. Wednesday, Oct. 22. 
Doors op^n at 7:45 pm, curtain 8:15 pm. 
Kresge Theatre, CFA (formerly the Carne­
gie Theatre.)
Ticket distribution to the general student
body for mainstage plays will be Friday, 
October 17 from 10:30—11:00 and 1:30— 
2:00. One ticket per C-MU ID.
The Computer Meets the Arts. Steven
Rubin of the Computer Science Depart­
ment will give a visual presentation on 
what the artist and the engineer have in 
common. Both are invited. 12:30 Thurs., 
Oct. 24th in the Wherret Room, Skibo. 
Bring your lunch and a friend. Sponsored 
by Campus Program Planning in coopera­
tion with the Department of Student Ac­
tivities.
Human Sexuality Lecture: A program on
Sexual Activity will be held on Wed., 
Oct. 15 at 7:00 pm in Breed Hall. Inform­
ative discussion of the following influential 
effects on sexual fulfillment: external 
stimulation from conversation, fantasy, 
pornography; techniques; male and female 
behavioral dysfunctions; and non­
interactional difficulties.
The Pennsylvania Commission for Women
is seeking student interns and volunteers 
to help with several Commission projects.
Positions open include: 1) legislative 
analyst to keep track of and analyze 
various state and federal legislation and 
its effect on women. Person(s) should 
have backround in political science and 
knowledge of and interest in women's is­
sues; 2) researchers to research women's 
issues - either in an area of their own 
choice or an area suggested by the Commis­
sion. Person(s) should have knowledge of 
and interest in women's issues; 3) Bicenten­
nial project coordinator who will develop 
special projects on women.
The Commission is unable to offer sala­
ries of expenses to interns or volunteers, 
but will work with students to obtain 
academic credit for ‘their time spent at 
the Commission.
For further information, contact Judy 
P. Hansen, director of information, at A/C 
717-787-8128.
Advertising—Public Relations—What is it—
How do you get in—Where can you go— 
these and other questions will be answered 
in a meeting sponsored by the Office of 
Career Services & Placement to be held on 
October 14, 1975, at 7:30 pm in Breed 
Hall. Speakers will be exectives from Ful­
ler, Smith & Ross, a highly successful ad­
vertising agency with offices in Pittsburgh, 
New York & Chicago. Areas represented 
will be Client Services, Creative Art & 
Copywriting.
All CMU undergraduate and graduate 
students wishing to learn more about 
these professions are invited to attend.
Having trouble with your courses? FAST-
Free Academic Student Tutoring is now 
available in most CIT, MIS, and Architec­
ture lower-level courses, as well as some 
H&SS courses. Stop by Peer Help, 
BH 150-A or call 621-9900 for further 
information.
Want to get in shape? Like fun? Come to
the CMU Gymnastics Club! Ability ranges 
from the basic beginner, to a more ad­
vanced level. It's fun .. . join us on Thurs. 
evenings from 5:00-7:00 p.m. We'd love 
to have you!
"Hypnosis in Medicine and Obstetrics,"
will be the topic of this week's free public 
seminar to be held at the Central Medical 
Pavilion on Thursday, Oct. 16, 1975 
beginning at 7:30 p.m.
This seminar which is the fifth in a 
series of eleven will be held in the Central 
Medical Pavillion dining room, located on 
the first floor. The session will be conduct­
ed by a medical specialist and a question 
and answer period will be provided.
The Central Medical Pavillion is located 
at 1400 Centre Ave., directly across from 
the Civic Arean. Enclosed parking is 
available in the adjoining parking garage.
A program on "Federal Employment
for the Technical Graduate" is to be 
presented on Thursday, October 30, 1975 
at 4:30 pm by Mr. Stanley Brem, Assistant 
Area Manager, and his technical staffing 
specialists, of the U.S. Civil Service Com­
mission.
The program, will be held in the Wherrett 
Room and include presentations on Fed­
eral employment opportunities for engi­
neers and scientists, information on proce­
dures and forms, salaries, progression, 
and a question and answer session.
All interested students are encouraged 
to attend.
Pre-Law students who are juniors or seniors
and who are "... committed to the use of 
his or her [later legal] skills in the services 
of the public" see Professor Thomas Kerr, 
206, GSIA, or Thomas M. Rutter, Esq., 
928 Frick Bldg., Downtown, about the 
New York University School of Law, Root- 
Tilden Scholarship Program.
This year's annual wonderous Rummage
Sale of St. Edmund's Academy will be held 
on Fri., Oct. 17 from 2—6 and Sat., Oct 18 
from 10—3 in the school's Field House on 
Forbes Ave., near Murray, in Squirrel Hill.
The sale will feature clothes, Sporting 
Goods, and Household items.
The entire project is the undertaking of 
the P.T.A. and members of the school 
community; all proceeds are for the 
school's scholarship fund.
On Thursday, October 23, David R. Israel,
Deputy Associate Adminstrator for Engi­
neering and Development of the Federal 
Aviation Administration will give the 
second in a series of seminars at Carnegie - 
Mellon University in the area of Electrical 
Engineering and Public Policy. Mr. Israel 
will explore policy issues involving the fu­
ture of air traffic control.
The seminar is free and open to the public. 
It will be held in Scaife Hall auditorium 
from 3:30 to 5:00 pm.
Meeting of C-MU Ski Club on Thursday,
October 16 in Baker Hall, Room 131. 
-ter ski trips discussed, ski swap, ski film. 
Anyone welcome . . . think snow. For 
information call 793-37I5.
A significant number of errors still exists jn
current student schedules.
Most of the errors are caused by inaccurate 
completion of Add/Drop cards. 
Fortunately, the mid-semester grade re­
ports, which will be available in depart­
mental offices on October 23, will provide 
a good means of identifying the problems 
which still exist and will provide students 
with the information necessary to re-pro­
cess adds and drops to accurately construct 
their true schedule of courses. 
The schedules as indicated in the grade re­
ports will reflect all of the file maintenance 
which the system has accepted as valid 
through the 9th of October. Therefore, in­
correct courses or omissions should be re­
processed promptly after midsemester. 
Students should make certain that the 
marks indicated on the add and drop cards 
are completely accurate. Otherwise another 
round of invalid Social Security Numbers 
and course numbers will occur. Also, for 
the present it is important that students 
filing add and drop cards use the Social 
Security number which appears on the 
grade report even though there may now 
exist a more accurate number.
The Golden Triangle YMCA at 304 Wood
street in downtown Pittsburgh is offering 
a variety of programs this fall for men and 
women. Classes beginning in October are 
scuba, karate, men's and women's swim, 
gymnastics and volleyball. The adult in­
formal courses are yoga, belly dancing, 
ballroom dancing and driving. For more in­
formation, call the Golden Triangle YMCA 
at 261-5820.
Orienteering Meet — The Pathfinding
and Orienteering Club is sponsoring an 
intercollegiate orienteering meet on 18 
October. If interested call 281/409.
Africa Lost and Found Gallery, 2460
Fifth Avenue, Tuesdays through Saturdays, 
12 noon to 6 pm. Featuring arts, artifacts, 
and crafts from Sub-Saharan Africa. Octo­
ber 1st. Phone 681-5778.
The Lady Davis Fellowship Trust Awards
for Study, Research or Teaching in Grad­
uate or Post Doctorate Levels at the He­
brew University of Jerusalem and the Tech- 
nion — Israel Institute of Technology, Hai­
fa. Information — 207 Warner Hall.
A Judo Club for C-MU. Any student or
faculty member (esp. those already exper­
ienced in Judo) wishing information on the 
formation of a Judo club for C-MU is urges 
to contact Mark Cimino at 412-E More- 
wood Gardens (682-8511) for details.
The Oakland Review, Carnegie-Mellon's
magazine of the arts, invites submissions of 
peotry, fiction, criticism, plays, essays, 
translations, ar»d black and white artwork 
for the Spring, I976 issue. Submissions 
should be placed in our mailboxes in the 
English Department Office or at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Anyone interested in 
joining the staff is invited and should 
leave a note in the mailboxes.
Premedical Students: Mr. Peter Smith, Ad­
missions Counselor and recruiter from 
Temple University's School of Medicine 
will be available for conference in Room 
19, Warner Hall from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 
p.m. on Wednesday, October 15. This is of 
special interest to juniors and seniors who 
are Pennsylvania residents.
Classified
TALENTED!!! Musical, magical, etc.
Experience not necessary. Auditons in 
your working attire. For more informa­
tion call 327-4500 or write Mrs. Joann 
Baros 4800 Wm. Penn Hwy., Murrysville.
English lessons for non-English-speaking
persons. Also editing of academic and pro­
fessional papers. Instructor has M.A. in 
anthropology, and is experienced in teach­
ing English as a second language both in 
the USA and abroad. 421-5146.
The Tech Flying Club will hold an open
meeting at 7:30 pm, Thurs., Oct. 16th in 
Porter Hall 125 B. Anyone interested in 
aviation or in joining the club and flying 
the club's plane is welcome. The meeting 
will be followed by several flying films and 
refreshments.
Three bedroom house with two vacant
rooms available to share in Squirrel Hill 
area. Close to Murray Avenue, on bus line 
to Oakland. $45.00/month + utilities. Al­
ready partly furnished, just needs you to 
move in. Call 521-1421.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon­
day through Friday. 682-3190.
Majoring in math, computer science, or
engineering? Want a scholarship? Call 
624-6398.
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help. Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874.
Typing - Printing Professors, Instructors,
Students. Professional looking term pa­
pers, theses, reports, manuscr.pts, etc. Call 
481-3041.
LSAT Preparation: 15 hour skills work­
shop designed and taught by an educa­
tional psychologist, legal analysis by a 
member of the Bar. Next course December 
26-31. LSAT Preparation Associates, 
P.O. Box 4134, Pittsburgh, PA 15202. 
Phone 412-835-3313.
TENNESSEE
WILL
ROCK
CARNEGIE
TECH
"'AND THAT'S NO FOOTBALL PREDICTION
Personals
To the Tartan
The Founder will disappear. 
Signed 
The Head
RESEARCH PAPERS
“JVr"\at" Va u/f. 
Send for your up-to-date. 160 page, mail order catalog of 5,500 
topics. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling.
COLLEGIAsE RESEARCH
1720 PONTIUS AVENUE, SUITE 201 LOS ANGELES.CALIFORNIA
| Name_________________________ ____j Address____________________________i City_______________________________| State______________________Zip______

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 14, 1975—Page 5
Poster Leads CenterV
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Carnegie-Mellon’s child care center, 
located in the Morewood Gardens base­
ment has begun a new involvement with 
the university under the leadership of its 
new director, Ms. Marsha Poster. The cen­
ter, a private non-profit organization which 
is licensed by the state, operates on a sli­
ding fee scale with reductions for children 
of people associated with the university 
(students, faculty, etc.), scholarships from 
Student Senate are also available. Care for 
45 children, aged three to five, is provided. 
CMU provides the facility and mainte-
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
nance. Education majors at CMU may do 
their practicum at the center. In the past, 
music ed students have been involved in 
this. The fraternities and sororities have 
held fund raising activities to help the 
center.
Ms. Poster said the program is “geared 
to aiding children’s progress through devel­
opmental stages.” As part of the mental 
development of the five year olds, there is 
a special time set aside each day;when the 
younger children are having “quiet” time, 
the five year olds are participating in a 
special prekindergarten program which 
helps them learn to read and write. They 
also have math and science enrichment 
programs. There are two staff members
specially trained in this area heading the 
program.
The program includes free play, art and 
crafts, storytelling, and group games as 
well as specified learning activités. The 
philosophy of the center as expressed by 
Marsha Poster is “play is child’s work, 
the staff acts as facilitators in the organ­
ization.”
There are eight staff members including 
two supervisors, four assistants, one arts 
and crafts teacher and the director. The 
center is open from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
daily, year round, except for the last two 
weeks in August.
The Child Care Center believes play is children's workPhoto by Elliot Popowitz
Darkroom Almost Ready
continued from page 1
marked for identification. In order to use 
the darkroom, students must find a Donner 
Hall R.A. and exchange their CMU I.D.’s 
for the key. These will be the basic precau­
tions, but others will be taken if deemed 
necessary.
Bruce Hamady hopes that the dark­
room will turn out to be completely' 
self-sufficient, with students cleaning up 
thoroughly after using the darkroom and 
paying for any damages they have caused. 
Bruce wishes to thank all those students, 
administrators and anybody else involved 
who has helped make the project a reality.
"npswyafternoon
PKHEONPORUMS
The Computer Meets The Arts
OCTOBER
16
Steven Rubin, Computer Science Dept
OCTOBER
23
Plays, Playwrights, Play Writing
CMU Drama Dept
if
12:30 
Wherrett Room 
Bring lunch and a friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
Overseas Experience
by Cindy Schwab
Four years at CMU condemn a student 
to cross the cut to classes at least two 
thousand times, and it’s probably twice 
that number with trips to crew, the library, 
the studio, the bookstore, the computer 
center, etc. By now, even a blindfolded 
freshman could find his destination with 
little difficulty. And the experience of 
plodding along these well-trodden paths is 
not unlike being blind; not unless you’ve 
an artist’s eye for detail do you observe the 
banalities of this unchanging campus. One 
need not have classes in Baker Hall to suf­
fer from tunnel vision. If seriously given 
the opportunity to eliminate one quarter, 
one-thousand of these monotonous treks, 
would you?
Only an unmentionable minority take 
advantage of the Jr.-Year-Abroad program. 
Next hundredth trip to Warner Hall, stop 
in 207 and rescue Dean Milligan: she’s 
sunken in volumes of tempting literature 
that would satisfy any discontented 
sophmore’s wanderlust. Virginia Milligan is 
ihis school’s Fulbright Advisor which keeps 
her preoccupied with those and other 
scholarship candidates, but as Foreign 
Study Advisor for the past three years, she 
is kept informed of programs for the 
adventurous and daring. Her files are 
continually updated and more compre­
hensive than the library’s, providing a 
breadth of information on anybody’s for­
eign fantasy. A curious browse may just 
change your life.
What do you do? How does it work? 
The informal structure of the Jr.-Year- 
Abroad program assigns the student the 
bulk of paper work. Because CMU does not 
sponsor it own program, the student must 
display persistent initiative to carry the 
thing through. After conferring with Dean
Milligan about interests and intentions, she 
will send you to your department where 
you must organize a faculty committee to 
draft a contract of your educational goals 
and pursuits. This contract must then be 
approved by major and elective depart­
ments. Application for foreign study may 
be conducted directly with the school or 
through another university’s auspices. The 
latter, although more conventional, ensures 
credit transfer and communication; most 
US schools have their own foreign faculty 
that conducts classes in English.
Dean Milligan warns prospective candi­
dates to thoroughly research advertised 
programs. Investigation of foreign study 
should be as complete as when one first 
applied to CMU. This means that the stu­
dent should well acquaint himself with the 
school’s admissions policy, tuition, fees, 
study facilities, language requirements, and 
general education system. The high cost of 
foreign study has weakened its popularity, 
for up until a few years ago, study abroad 
was a contagious trend. Although tuition 
may be lower at foreign schools, room, 
board, and traveling expenses will make the 
cost comparable to CMU. A student receiv­
ing grants or scholarship money cannot 
expect that aid to be transposed. Rampant 
inflation causes the student to consider 
the program's practical benefits upon his 
educational and career goals. Advance 
planning may well mean the difference 
between a rewarding and disappointing 
-experiance.
Junior Year Abroad Programs are no 
longer restricted to Humanities and Fine 
Arts students. CIT now holds the special 
status in offering not only the first formal 
exchange program in this school, but in 
offering the first undergraduate engineering 
program in the country. Spearheaded by 
Charles Bauer, CIT will conduct an ex-
FCARNEGC -MELLON UMVERSITY FALL 1975
SEXUAL
ACTIVITY
Wednesday, 
Oct. 15 
7 pm, Breed Hall
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act,
N\ \
/
perimental exchange with Ecole Poly­
technique in Lousanne, Switzerland next 
September. Because of its central location, 
international community, ideal skiing con­
ditions, and according to the program’s di­
rector, the “most beautiful women in the 
world,” the program should have little 
trouble in recruiting just three sophmore 
representives. The continuation of the 
program hinges upon next year’s success. A 
massive publicity campaign will inform 
students of necessary instructions and 
details. An engineer with international 
savvy will eventually be rewarded with a 
fascinating career.
Junior Year Abroad is not for every­
body, though. Even in a country where 
English predominates, the initial experi­
ence can be difficult and lonely. The pro­
fessors and students with whom this re­
porter talked cited ‘adaptability’ as 
the foremost requisite. Although advance 
planning is highly suggested, sometimes 
even the most careful research will not 
guarantee smooth sailing. Anyone who has 
travelled can tell tall tales about foreign 
customs and mannerisms. But a tourist’s 
amusements can be a student’s bewilder­
ments. A student must abandon his ethno- 
centrism (for it sometimes makes a capri­
cious emergence in one’s conversation and 
attitude) and learn to adjust to alien ways. 
Some have a harder tune than others, due 
to their personalities or the situation in 
which they’re placed.
History major Hector Huyke spent last 
year in London at Richmond College, 
which especially caters to foreign students.
FLATI6NUM ITALIC SET
Contains a fountain pen five 
italic mds, and instruction 
manuaf ail foronfy $5.00...
At art matiriaC¿r'jjen sdops. 
coffcqc food stores...or send 
c ficck to ‘Pentafic Corp., i$2 
West 22 Sr., N.y., N.y toon 
Add 50 cents for fiandfinq.
Hector strongly suggests it for students 
who cannot adjust to CMU. Because of 
its tiny size, students and faculty can form 
close and immediate bonds with one an­
other. Dru Hardy of the Art Dept, was also 
in London at the College of Art. The nat­
ure of her major allowed her to work inde­
pendently with minimal supervision. Her 
work was recently displayed in Fine Arts, a 
typical requirement upon return. Another 
artist, Mindell Dubansky, although in Eng­
land, had an entirely different experience. 
Almost 4 hours from London is Exeter 
where she got a true taste of the English. In 
a provincial and backward,country setting, 
she learned not to take so many things for 
granted, that one could live without luxur­
ies, like central heating, electric sewing 
machines, and sometimes even hot and 
cold running water. She is honest enough 
to admit that her artwork suffered because 
her concentration centered upon adjusting 
herself to the habits of those she lived with 
She tells an enlightening story of how she 
was ordered off a bus for pushing ahead in 
the line.
K/\—“/
. »* ’" '' mMstJU jr.** . .Êt***
*-V - ¦sLst'i
Fine Arts fountain?Photo by Jim Finkel
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215 -449- 2006

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975-Page 7
Career Notes: Test Dates
by J.D. Ryan,
Director
Career Services & Placements
This column is the first of a series which 
will appear in the TARTAN this year. 
^Their purpose will be twofold: to explore 
topics of interest to CMU students wrest­
ling with some of the problems encoun­
tered in establishing a sense of career 
direction and to provide practical job 
hunting advice to students who are now 
or soon will be actively competing in the 
employment market. Articles will be 
written by staff members of the Office of 
^ Career Services and Placement and con­
tributions from CMU faculty members and 
administrators, alumni and representatives 
of business, industry and government will 
also appear. It is not intended that the 
information contained in these columns 
should be accepted as a substitute for 
thoughtful and independent action so ne­
cessary to establish a personal career per- 
V spective. A person’s pattern of career devel­
opment and growth is likely to be the most 
important and long term process experi­
enced in life. If it is to be successful and 
of enduring value, it requires knowledge, 
honesty with one’s self, constant atten­
tion and above all hard work. I will treat 
this subject in some detail in subsequent 
columns.
fc
Buckley Amendment
One item of practical information that 
tends to be confusing to CMU students 
and deserves some explanation is the appli­
cation and implementation of the pro­
visions of the Buckley Amendment to the 
Family Education Rights and Privacy Act 
t of 1974 by the Office of Career Services 
and Placement. The principal features of 
the Buckley Amendment are the estab­
lishment of certain classes of educational 
documents or records and requirements for 
the proper use of these in support of a 
student’s application for employment or 
graduate studies. It also affirms a student’s 
right of access to documents traditionally 
i considered to be confidential. These are 
faculty reference statements which are 
usually collected as part of a student’s 
credential File. This piece of legislation
has received wide criticism not because of 
its intent but because its provisions were 
hastily written with a minimum of debate 
and without the benefit of extensive 
hearings from representatives of groups 
who are directly affected by it. A com­
plete summary of federal guidelines have 
still not been issued to provide guidance 
in the day-to-day implementation of the
Act; yet, the Buckley Amendment is now 
almost a year old.
The Office of Career Services and Place­
ment has been operating for the past 
several years under procedures that are 
now mandated by this piece of legislation.
It has been a policy of this office since 
1970 that items such as faculty reference 
statements, resumes, transcripts and qual­
ity point averages would not be released 
to emplpyers or graduate schools without 
the explicit and written consent of the stu­
dent. Beginning last year, faculty reference 
statements were only classified confiden­
tial at the request of the person writing the 
statement. Now, in accordance with the 
Act, all such references submitted after 
January 1, 1975, must be available for re­
view by the student concerned. An added 
feature of this provision is that which al­
lows the student to waive his or her right 
of access to these documents if the student 
chooses to take this action. This office be­
lieves it is observing the letter and spirit 
of the law. A reassessment of our pro­
cedures will be made when more definitive 
implementation guidelines are issued by 
HEW. Students who wish to discuss details 
of this law or the procedures we follow in 
insuring privacy and confidentiality of 
student records maintained in our files 
are invited to meet with any member of 
our staff.
Test Dates and Career Seminars
A summary of important dates and appli­
cation deadlines for some of the more 
popular graduate study admission and 
governmental employment tests:
LSAT (Law School Admission Test)
Required by most American and many 
Canadian law schools. Candidates who 
plan to enroll in law school before Oct. 1,
1976, should plan to take the LSAT on
one of the test dates between now and
July 24, 1976.
Application (registration) 
Deadline
Nov. 10, 1975 
Jan. 8, 1976 
March 11, 1976 
June 24,1976
Test Dates
Dec. 6, 1975
Feb. 7, 1976
April 10,1976
July 24, 1976
Information about the LSAT can be ob­
tained from pre-law advisor Professor 
Thomas Kerr in GSIA 206 or the Office 
of Career- Services and Placement, room 
19, Warner Hall.
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL
Students
Teachers
Scientists
Engineers
Lawyers
WHAT DO ALL THESE PEOPLE HAVE IN COMMON?
All are interested in managerial careers and presently 
enrolled in the MBA Program at Harvard Business 
School. Should you be here?
Come meet with William D. Shea 
of HBS here on campus October 24 
at room 19 Warner Hall to find out
Dennis Ryan, Director of Career Services and Placements
GMAT (Graduate Management Admission 
Test)
Required for admission to most leading 
graduate schools of management or 
business.
Application Deadline Test Dates
Oct. 10, 1975 
Jan. 9,1976 
March 5, 1976 
June 18, 1976
Nov. 1, 1975
Jan. 31, 1976 
March 27, 1976 
July 10, 1976
Information booklets and test aplications 
are available from Patricia Klahr in GSIA 
or the Office of Career Services and Place­
ment.
MCAT (Medical College Admission Test)
Students considering application to medi­
cal college should plan to take MCAT 
during the spring of their junior year. 
Dates for spring and fall 1976 have not 
yet been announced. Information about 
MCAT and medical college admission 
procedures is available from A.J. Streiff, 
pre-medical advisor DH 2114.
PACE (Professional and Administrative 
Career Examiniation)
Students with H&SS and AMS majors 
who seek emplyoment in most federal 
agencies are required to qualify by taking 
the PACE test. The examination is given 
in Pittsburgh. Informational booklets and 
test applications are available in the Career 
Services and Placement Office.
Application DeadlineTest Dates
Oct. 17, 1975November
Dec. 12, 1975Janurary
Jan. 16, 1976February
Feb.13,1976March
March 12,1976April
April 30, 1976May
Foreign Service Officer Examination
To qualify for career appointments in the 
Department of State, applicants are requir­
ed to take this examination which is given 
only once during the year. H&SS and AMS 
students considering foreign service ca­
reers are encouraged to take this test. 
Information booklets and test applications 
are available in the Office of Career Ser­
vices and Placement. The application 
deadline for the test is October 31, 1975. 
The test will be given December 6, 1975.
National Security Agency, 1975 Profes­
sional Qualification Test
Required of liberal arts and mathematics 
majors for employment with the National 
Security Agency. The examination is not 
required for engineering and computer 
science majors. This is another test which 
is administered only once each. year. 
Application deadline is November 8, 1975; 
test date is November 22, 1975. Booklets 
and applications are available in the Office 
of Career Services and Placement.
Career Seminars
Several career serftinars will take place 
during this semester highlighting careers in 
various occupations and professions. Bulle­
tin board notices will be sent out prior tc 
each of these events. Students throughout 
CMU who are interested in these topics are 
invited and encouraged to attend. Someoi 
the programs being presented in the 
coming weeks are:
Advertising and Communications
Tuesday, October 14, 1975, 7:30 p.m. 
Breed Hall, MMCC
A panel of executives from Fuller Smith & 
Ross, a leading advertising agency in 
Pittsburgh, will discuss writing, art, client 
services and public relations positions in a 
typical advertising agency. Particular atten­
tion will be focused upon the knowledge 
and skills needed to qualify for jobs in 
advertising and some recommended strate­
gies that are helpful in finding employment 
in this field.
Pre-Medical Seminar
Wednesday, October 22, 4:30 p.m.
Wherrett Room,Skibo 
A general discussion by members of the 
Pre-Medical Advisory Committee about 
medical college requirements and applica­
tion procedures.
Pre-Law Seminar
Tuesday, October 28, 7:30 p.m. Breed 
Hall, MMCC
A panel of CMU graduates now enrolled in 
law school will discuss their experiences 
as law school students with particular 
emphasis upon recommended undergradu­
ate preparation and the contrast of under­
graduate and law school studies.
Government Employment and the Tech­
nical Graduate
Thursday, October 30, 4:30 p.m. Wherrett 
Room, Skibo
Stanley Brem, Assistant Area Manager for 
the US Civil Service Commission, will dis­
cuss career opportunities for engineering 
and science graduates in the many federal

---------------------------------------------------

’
Page 8—THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
EXCITING!! 
PROVOCATIVE!! 
FUTURISTIC
MIND BLOWING!} EVOLUTIONARY DYNAMITE! !
JIM ATTINA
OUTSTADING PSYCHIC 
AS YOUR HOST AND MODERATOR
PresentsDONALD L. PLYM Ph. D.
PRACTICING PSYCHOLOGIST 
AUTHOR OF “MACRO PHILOSOPHY" AND 
“21 50 A. D. - MACRO LOVE STORY"
in Lecture Series
1. A "MACRO" PHILOSOPHY for JOYOUS LIVING- in This 
Aquaria n Age Prototype for a world of the Future
FRIDAY EVE.. OCT. 17. 1975. 8:00 P.M.*
2. DREAMS, the ROYAL ROAD to SELF IMPROVEMENT 
SATURDAY EVE., OCT 18. 1975. 8:00 P.M.*
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL
REAR OF MUSEUM AND SCAIFE GALLERIES 
PARKING OFF S. CRAIG-REAR OF SCAIFE GALLERIES 
ACCESS TO LECTURE HALL FROM LOT. ALONG OUTSIDE REAR TO LEFT OF LIBRARY BLDG.
Homecoming1975
Herman Heads Research
Unlike most programs of this kind the 
Institute is primarily funded by industry 
and operates on a “fellowship” system 
where researchers simultaneously serve as 
employees oPboth the Institute and its 
financing companies.
Counselors
by Joan Konkle
The effectiveness of the academic coun­
seling done by faculty advisors is currently 
being investigated by the Council of Stud- v 
ent Affairs of the Faculty Senate. The 
committee is composed of representatives 
from the faculty, administration, and the 
student body.
The issue of academic counseling was 
introduced by the chairman of the com­
mittee, Prof. William Cohn, History De­
partment, at its first meeting on October 1.
Professor Cohn told the committee that ^ 
a student who has a good relationship with 
his advisor, even if the student rarely has a 
need or desire for counseling, will feel 
more confident about himself and will 
have a better attitude towards his depart­
ment. He further stated that he has found 
that, “Students who are secure in their 
particular academic programs have a more 
positive view of the university community < 
than those who are not.” Obviously, Pro­
fessor Cohn sees academic counseling as 
an important faculty and departmental 
function, and one that has far-reaching 
effects.
Between now and its next meeting, 
which will be held around the first of 
November, the committee will be busy 
trying to find out what problems, if any, ^ 
people have had with academic counseling. 
After getting a clear picture of the prob­
lems that exist, the committee will then 
discuss ways to solve them, and then will 
finally submit a list of recommendations to 
the Faculty Senate.
Photos by Elliot Popowitz
by Stephen Warren
Under the administration of the immed­
iate president, Dr. Ted Herman, the Mellon 
Institute has plans for new innovating 
phases. The plans include; a management 
section to promote long range planning, 
services to local and state government, a 
unit for investigation of coal and nuclear 
energy, an^ ecology unit studying air and 
water pollution and study in the health 
services, including work regarding artificial 
hearts and kidneys.
Some CMU professors research at the 
Mellon Institute and student participation 
is thought possible. By working with com­
pany representatives, students would have 
the opportunity for on the job training.
The Institute began in 1913 as a Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh affiliation for industrial 
research. By the mid-twenties the program 
included exploration of pure sciences. In 
1937, Andrew and Richard Mellon official­
ly “founded the Institute and gave this 
building for the pUrsuit of scientific re­
search to benefit mankind.” In 1967 
Mellon Institute merged with Carnegie 
Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 14,1975—Page 9
'Fog-Foolery'
by Mark Gozion
Foghat’s latest release, “ Fool for the 
City,” is carrying out the tradition which 
Foghat is already famous for - greatness! 
If you really like to ‘get down’ to music, 
Foghat’s new album will get you there. The 
supreme quality is unmistakable in all 
of Foghat’s work, including this current 
release.
Starting off Side One, the title song, 
“Fool for t City,” gets you heated right 
into the spasmodic beat. The rowdy tempo 
pf this song is unsurpassed in today’s rock 
rhythms and sets the stage for one of 
Foghat’s climactic outbursts which catches 
the whole audience off-guard.
“My Babe” takes up where “Fool for 
the City” left off. The drums play a 
lead role in this exquisite piece. Aided by 
the guitars, Foghat again reveals their 
mastery of‘heavy metal’ music.
“Slow Ride” is the climax and grand 
finale of Side One, and of the rest of the 
album for that matter. Nick Jameson 
cruises on his bass and leaves you cruising
on the high-hog! The bass picks up as the 
guitars and drums blend into a jam 
which breaks loose in a rocking, stomping 
atmosphere. “Slow Ride” is surely a fan­
tastic manipulation of music - thanks to 
Foghat.
On most records, side one contains all 
the best songs and leaves side two with 
all the second-ranked limeys. That is not 
the case with Foghat. If a record was 
larger than 12 inches, Foghat wouldn’t 
have a second side. Side Two is definitely 
of a quality equal to that of side one.
“Terra Plane Blues”, “Save Your Lovin 
(for Me)”, “Drive Me Home” and “Take It 
or Leave It” carry on in the same raucous 
tradition that only Foghat seems to exe­
cute so well .--They also have a kinky knack 
for integrating blues and funk into their 
otherwise strictly acid-rock music.
This rare collection of high quality 
songs oh one album is surely a deal you 
’can’t let pass by.
If you’re tired of those sticky-slow Top 
40 tunes - check out Foghat’s “Fool for 
the City” and feel the music for a change.
A Little Something 
'Extra'
by Jack Rodney
- * < George Harrison’s new album, Extra 
Texture, may be a turning point in his 
career. He’s regained the energy of “My 
Sweet Lord” and “What is Life” in the 
simple, yet extremely catchy “You”. The
This is not an illustration of Tony Orlando
song reminds me of Carole King’s 
“Jazzman” because of the Jim Horn sax 
solo. This tune alone proves that if George 
lost the zest he had as a Beatle, he’s regain­
ed it with energy to spare. In a fairly recent 
interview, Harrison said, “I’m really ready, 
with John Leftnon in particular, to get 
down and kick a few doors and let’s get 
going again.” Now that George is beginning 
to sound like a rocker again and John has 
finally won the right to stay in America, 
maybe the two will combine their enor­
mous talents and record some mid-sixties 
type songs. At least that’s what I’d like to 
hear.
Although George exccls in “You”, he 
fills the remainder of Extra Texture with 
boring, lilting cuts that have one strong and
•prevailing meaning-George is “Tired of 
Midnight Blues.” That’s fine with me, 
because I’m tired of late nights mourning 
the loss of a lover; but why must he ramble 
on and on that he’s lost Patti to Eric 
Clapton? George admits that “I’-d prefer 
you to. write nothing and never mention 
jne at all than to write something which 
is negative.” Nonetheless, he records song 
after five-minute song about Patti.
* Aside from “You”, which undoubtedly 
was inspired by a new romance, George 
also managed to sneak in a lot of catches 
into his other melodies. ‘1This Guitar 
(Can’t Keep From Crying)” which is a 
take-off on “While My Guitar Gently 
Weeps”, grabs and pulls. I’d oyerlook his 
boring lyrics, which are identical to those 
on “Material World” and “Darkhorse”, 
only because of the excellant instrumentals 
and catches hidden in the melodies.
Harrison says that Paul McCartney 
“ruined” him as a guitar player during the 
Beatles days. If. so, he’s all fixed up now. 
The last song on the album, “His Name is 
Legs”, is another take-off, this time on 
“For You and Me, Babe” by Ringo on the 
Ringo album. While conflicting melodies 
fade in and leave, a voice sounding like a 
second- class circus announcer ties it all to­
gether with quick quips which are hard to
pick up because his voice is softer than the 
music track.
Maybe the difference between the 
Beatles albums as a group and the solo 
albums is that when they were together, 
they recorded twelve tunes with about four 
to six hits. John and George don’t seem to 
be able to spin more than one hit per 
album. Maybe that’s because they spend 
too much time helping produce and write 
for other musicians. Still, Extra Texture 
is a solid album, if you’re a Beatles freak 
like me; and it has many fine melodies 
and one terrific song if you’re no*
' f
#)<
'< 'f
i1»é
?V
Photos by Fred Sham I ¡an 
Pro-keyboard stylist, Ramsey Lewis made Homecoming something 
extra special this season as he performed in a powerhouse of a 
concert, Friday night. He's getting ine disco sound together and 
the beat is catching-the audience's enthusiastic cheering could be 
heard echoing all over campus. Lewis' agile artistry deserves 
one more round of applause, as do the members of the Activities 
Board for choosing him.
FORBES 
STREET
PHOTOGRAPHY SHOW
NOW THRU 
OCTOBER 25th
GALLERY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
Would Bogart Like It ?
The advertisements for Farewell, My 
Lovely state that “This is a movie that even 
Bogart would stand in line to see.” This 
statement is, if not a bit pompous and pre- 
sumptous, somewhat misleading. The Rea­
son Bogart would watch this movie, is so 
he could muse at Robert Mitchum’s en­
deavors in a movie that seems to have been 
tailor-made for “Bogey” himself. The 
amazing thing about this is that Mitchum is 
relatively successful in his portrayal of 
Phillip Marlowe, a private “dick” who is so 
lacking in culture and refinement that he 
becomes a seemingly tough cross between 
Columbo and James Bond.
Director Dick Richards has skillfully 
“panoramasized” a picture of the bleak 
1930’s. He has interwoven his characters 
into this tapestry with the precision of a 
master tailor. The only problem is that the 
tailor is using worn-out wool, namely a 
much used, and well known plot. The story 
is simply about a hood, Moose Malone, 
who hires a detective (Marlowe) to find 
the ex-con’s missing girlfriend (Velma). 
The remainder of the movie is filled with
obstacles that Marlowe must surmount in 
his search for the elusive siren. The film is 
interspersed with murder, racial prejudice, 
inter-marital sex, and alcoholism, yet no 
morality judgements are made. This is 
almost refreshing after a deluge of films 
that did their utmost to comment on the 
morality of deviant behavior.
Charlotte Rampling, in a sensuous 
characterization of Mrs. Baxter Wilson 
Grayle, the young wife of a prominent but 
elderly judge, displays a great depth of 
character as she envelops the role of a 
vicious feline; soft to the touch, but lethal 
as a voracious panther.
Despite the many positive aspects of 
this movie there are many who will dislike 
this film for its tritely amusing dialogue 
(Mrs. Grayle says to Marlowe, “Jesus 
you’re old fashioned” to which he quips 
“From the waist up.”), lack of original 
scripting, and predictable ending. I, how­
ever, would recommend this film to any­
one interested in seeing an entertaining 
detective story--you know, the kind they 
don’t make no mo’
TufH-Fwtti \
by Stephen Warren
Tutti-Frutti is not only ice cream.
“Are you ready?” emcee Jim Ryan 
micro phoned. A snare kicked into a circus 
roll, and jolted the Nixon Theater seats.
“Are you set?” Sparse but spirited, 
Friday night’s concert-goers stared curtain- 
ward. Drums clacked toward a climax, voo­
doo-rousing the crowd. Band boogied 
awhile. Then Little Richard, spreading his 
carmine cape, glittering dorsal sequins, 
strutted onstage.
The King of Rock ‘n’ Roll strolled to his 
hrone, a grand piano. '. . and hopped atop 
it! He grinned, eyeballing the swarm of 
photographers who had clambered into the 
orchestra pit. Flashes glistened like honey 
before the regal bee.
Silver boots landed and, soon, the most­
ly middle-age audience relived its thrill on 
“Blueberry Hill”. Another vocalist coaxed 
clapping and sing-along, as Little Richard 
thumped his keyboard. Three electric 
guitars, a super-sax, trap set and organ ac­
companied the monarch’s twenty-sixth 
year in Rock ‘n’ Roll!
“I’m older, but bolder!”
Sweat slid from his forehead whenever 
the entertainer’s frizzy hair shook to a 
song like “Good Golly, Miss Molly”. De­
monstrating virtuosity, Little Richard also 
cooed a country tune which he wrote for 
Charlie Pride.
“Tutti-Frutti” turned the Pittsburghers 
wild — they were standing, stomping, and 
smacking hands to Olden’s Goldie. Once on 
feet, they never sat. Folks bopped to the 
Beatles’ “I Saw Her Standing There,” then 
rocked to “Rip It Up”.
Richard repeated: “Are you all having a 
good time?”
“Yeah.. . h!!!”
“Long Tall Sally” was the finale a la 
frenzy; Little Richard capered off-stage, 
and his band tapered to a cut. Dazzled fans 
meandered through the exit, remembering 
impressions.
As those spectators shuffled home, they 
must have recalled, as well, the earlier acts: 
Oakland Stroke, Bobby Lewis, The Crys­
tals. ..
That local prelude had belted jazz, fi­
nally backing a dance pair in the Pointer
Sister hit, “Yes We Can”. Funky-foot 
Bobby Lewis came next with “Splish 
Splash” in leather wraps. Later, the man 
solemnly dedicated “Proud Mary” and a 
prayer to veteran Jack Wilson, who “is in a 
coma after a stroke at Cherry Hill, New 
Jersey. .. and can’t hear any more music at 
this time.” Mister Lewis went “Tossin’ an’ 
Turnin’” from the floor to make way 
for. . . The Crystals!
Swinging in white shag gowns, the fe­
male trio offered its ‘63 famous song “Da 
Do Run Run”, as well as others (“And 
Then He Kissed Me,” “Uptown,” “He’s A 
Rebel”). Each songstress and sound seemed 
as youthful as the earlier rendition.
For many, the evening was surely nos­
talgic. For those not old enough to re­
minisce, it might have been the materializa­
tion of a myth. At least, a testimonial to 
the stronger soul of Rock ‘n’ Roll.
BEST RESUME
RESUMES 
• Special Student Rates
• Confidential, fast service
• Guaranteed Satisfaction
Why miss an opportunity to begin 
your career by presenting yourself 
with a poorly prepared resume? 
Our staff is composed of highly 
trained and experienced 
professionals who know how to 
market your talents and skills. Our 
resumes command attention. They 
produce results. They can help you 
get that interview so essential to 
your job search. Don't risk your 
future by being unprepared. Call us 
today for information or write for 
free brochure.
-Our Services- Effective Creative 
Composition, Editing and Styling, 
IBM Executive Typing, Custom Of­
fset Printina, Employer Mailing 
Lists391-0644
“Pgh's oldest service"
The Penthouse 
625 Stanwix St.
BEST , 
RESUME 
SERVICE
Offices Coast to Coast
The robbery 
should have taken 10 minutes. 4 
hours later, the bank was like a 
circus sideshow. 8 hours later, it 
was the hottest thing on live T.V 
12 hours later, it was all history. 
And it’s all true.
mam
An Artists Entertainment Compì», Inc. Production
Also stairrç OHN CAZALE • JAMES BRODERICK and CHARLES DURNING as Moretti
Screenplay by FRANK PIERSON - FHm Editor DtDE AOEN-TECHNICaOR® Directed tv SIDNEY LUMET 
Proûuced by MARTIN BREGMAN and MARTIN ELFAND 
From WARNER NAnrti WARNER COMMUNICATIONS COMWNY [g[
CHATHAM
AT CHATHAM CENTER 261-1001

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975-Page 11
THE PLATINUM YEARS -On the set
with the great movies and stars of the last 
three decades. Bob Willoughby with text 
by Richard Schickel. Portfolio containing 
remarkable shots of directors and the 
stars of The Platinum Years, the 50's,60's 
and 70's. Illustrated throughout with stills 
from such "never-again" movies as From 
here to Eternity, A Star is Born, Guys and 
Dolls, Rebel Without a Cause, Rosemary's 
Baby and more. A must for all movie 
buffs and collectors.
Pub. at 25.00 Only 12.98
BOOK STORE
PORTRAITS OF NORTH AMERICAN 
INDIAN LIFE. By Edward S. Curtis. The 
monumental classic capturing the spirit 
of the Indian lifestyle. This collection 
contains over eightly full-size (15 by 17) 
portraits, each suitable for framing. Each 
photograph preserves the beauty and pa­
thos of Indian life. A must for collectors. 
Pub. at 35.00 Only 19.98
EYEWITNESS TO SPACE. 258 paintings, 
drawings and prints—112 in Full-Color— by 
47 of Americas greatest artists. NASA in 
collaboration with the National Gallery of 
Art invited dozens of America's foremost 
artists - Jamie Wyeth, Norman Rockwell, 
Dong Kingman and Robert Rauschenberg— 
to sketch and paint whatever appealed to 
them. From this wealth of material a re­
markable documentation of man's greatest 
adventure has been selected. Extra-large 
format. 16%" by 121/2". Indexed.
Pub. at 35.00 Only 17.98
AMERICAN MASTERS-The Voice and the 
Myth. Brian O'Doherty. Hopper, Davis, 
Pollock, De Kooning, Rothko, Rauschen­
berg, Wyeth, Cornell. Over 50 extraordi­
nary Color Plates typify the genius of these 
eight great American artists. The book's 
theme is one intrinsic to modern art: the 
dialogue between an artist's work- his 
"Voice"-- and its reception by the public, 
which tends to comprehend the artist and 
his work and a "Myth". Hans Namuth's 
superb photographs (over 80 b/w) enter in­
to a sophisticated dialogue with each ar­
tist's personality, so that the book itself 
becomes an example to its theme.
Pub. at 25.00 Only 12.98
APPALACHIAN WILDERNESS- The 
Great Smoky Mountains. By Eliot Porter. 
45 magnificent FULL-COLOR photo­
graphs. Catches and holds the majestic 
beauty of the Appalachian wilderness. 
Veiled mountains, big woods, wild flow­
ers and highland streams are among the 
scenes, faithfully reproduced here in four 
colors, that readers will return to again 
and again. Offers the final beauty that 
comes from man's knowledge of the natur­
al world. This is a book to treasure and 
to be passed down from one generation to 
the next. 10" by 14"
Pub. at 30.00 Only 12.98
Eliot ibrtcr
THE WORLD ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE 
FILM. By Tim Cawkwell & John M. Smith. 
The first truly international reference work 
on the movies— stars, directors, camera­
men, and all the others who have contri­
buted to this art form since its inception 
early in the twentieth century. By far the 
most complete book— over 2,000 entries, 
meticulously cross-referenced and indexed. 
500 photos.
Pub. at 25.00 Only 9.98
ART TREASURES OF THE WORLD.
Excellent survey of art and architectural 
treasure^ in each country. Profusely illus­
trated with Over 260 illustrations, 120 in 
FULL COLOR in each volume. 8%" by 11%*' Pub. at 6.95 Only 3.98 Each
Art Treasures in the British Isles 3.98
Art Treasures in France 3.98
Art Treasures in Germany 3.98
Art Treasures in Spain 3.98
THE ART OF JEWELRY. By Graham 
Hughes. Lavishly illustrated with 242 
photos (78 in Color). Tells the story of 
jewelry— its history, its changing styles,, 
its craftsmen and designers and their tech­
niques, its great collectors and patrons, 
its discoverers, its value and allure. 9%" 
by 12%".
Pub. at 25.00 . Only 14.98
IN THIS PROUD LAND: America 1935-43 
As Seen in the Farm Security Administra­
tion Photograghs. Roy Stryker and Nancy 
Wood. 210 photographs. Photos of com­
mon citizens--of how and where they lived 
in an uncommon time: years that spanned 
the Depression, the New Deal, the advent 
of World War II. They portray both the 
bitter and the sweet, the comfortable and 
the destitute, the humorous and the heart- 
rendering. 9" by 12"
Pub. at 20.00 Only 8.98
FOUR FABULOUS FACES. By Larry 
Carr. The most sumptous film book ever 
published. Illustrated with over 1,000 
rare photographs, many never before in 
print and a 16-page color section of price­
less old movie magazines. Four Fabulous 
Faces is a lavish testimonial to the ageless 
beauty of four extraordinary actresses: 
Gloria Swanson, Greta Garbo, Joan Craw­
ford and Marlene Dietrich.
Pub. at 40.00 Only 19.98
THE BUSBY BERKELEY BOOK. Tony 
Thomas and Jim Terry in collaboration 
with Busby Berkeley. Foreward by Ruby 
Keeler. More than 150 illustrations. To­
day's enormous interest in the films of 
Busby Berkeley has placed him where he 
deserved to be from the outset-- up front 
with the few truly original creators in the 
art of cinema. His fantastic world comes 
alive here- in the story of his life, right up 
through his success, when 70 years old, 
with the 1971 revival on Broadway of 
No, No, Nanette; scenes illustrating every 
movie he ever made; and a complete film­
ography.
Pub. at 15.00 Only 7.98
CHAMPAGNE. By William I. Kaufman. 
Over 100 photographs and drawings’ 
many in brilliant color. Joyously honors 
the glory of Champagne-the wine, the re-, 
gion, and the people. A colorful photo­
graphic tour of the great vineyards and 
villages of the beautiful Champagne district 
of France. Includes songs & stories from 
the region, as well as traditional recipes 
using champagne. Every lover of art & 
beauty — and champagne — will find this 
book to be a magnum of pleasure. 14" by 
101/2''
Pub. at 25.00 Only 14.98
DICTIONARY OF MUSIC. By Theodore 
Karp. Comprehensive, wide-ranging dic­
tionary covering all musical periods: Med­
ieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Ro­
mantic, Modern. Compiled to assist the 
music lover and the student of music to 
understand better the musical heritage of 
the Western World. Clear, precise and up- 
to-date. Important abbreviations, pitch 
names, musical symbols. Cross-Indexed.
Pub. at 12.50 Only 3.98
3117. The New York Times GREAT SONGS Of
BROADWAY. By Introductions by Alan Jay Lemer 
and Jule Stync. 74 songs from 63 great Broadway shows arranged for voice, piano and guiUr. An aston­
ishing collection of songs that have become woven into the fabric of American life. From “Give My Re­
gards to Broadway” from Little Johnny Jones to “I 
Don't Know How to Love Him” from Jesus Christ Superstar, this is truly a book that gives Broadway’s 
regards to everyone. Spiral Bound for easy use at the piano. •Pub. at S 17.50 Only 8.98
VINCENT VAN GOGH. By Marc Edo Tral- 
baut. The most comprehensive study of 
Van Gogh ever published, presented by the 
leading world authority on the artist- in­
tensively moving & revealing account of his 
life & work, his crises & defeats, his doubts 
& accomplishments. Contains reproduc­
tions of drawing & paintings never before 
appearing in any book, clarifies gaps & ob­
scurities in the artist's correspondence- 
old ^ misconceptions are done away with, 
and new perspectives appear. Hundreds 
of reproductions in B&W and FULL- 
COLOR. 10" by 12”.
Pub. at 42.50 Only 22.98
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM 
SHAKESPEARE. All that Shakespeare ever 
wrote- a fine, complete edition (2 inches J 
thick) following the arrangement of the ^ 
First Folio of 1623 with "Pericles" the^ 
poems and sonnets appended. 1,100k 
Double-Column pages: ribbon bookmark.! 
Special Value 3.98

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
sports
TARTANS HAMMER HIRAM 
COAST TO 21-8 VICTORY
by Gerry Fraley
Everyone knows who the glamor boys 
of football are, the running backs, the 
quarterbacks, and the guys with the white 
shoes, are always the heroes.
But football is a physical game and it 
was the physical guys, color their shoes 
muddy, on the offensive and defensive 
lines who were the driving force behind a 
21-8 Homecoming win for the Carnegie- 
Mellon Tartans over the Hiram Terriers Sat­
urday in a Presidents’ Athletic Conference 
game at Tech Stadium.
Hiram’s defense was nothing more 
then a punching bag for the Tartan 
offense, as Tech rolled up an impressive 
364 yards total offence. The ground game 
was the dominating factor as the Tartans 
picked up 295 yards with Dick West’s 
143 yards on 23 carries leading the way. 
West’s longest carry was for 14 yards. He 
spent most of the day picking up 5 or 6 
yards behind an offensive line that 
controlled the line of scrimmage like a tidal 
wave. The tidal wave consisted of John 
Bielich, Mark Uram, Nick Redondo, Jay 
Meenan, Eldridge Dudley and substitutes 
Gary West, Jim Dickinson, and Mike De 
Brosse.
but tackle Ray Moncini forced Hiram 
running back Van Williams to fumble and 
middle guard Calvin Scott recovered on the 
Terrier 11. Duquette wasted no time as he 
hit tight end Rick Schademan on the next 
play tor the score. McMeekin was again 
successful on the conversion, giving the 
Tartans a 14-0 half time lead.
Moncini and Scott were joined by Bob 
Hantz, Rich Lackner, Keith Baker, Doug 
Gomirac, Bill Reppa and Dave Nackoul in 
their destruction of the Hiram offense. 
They limited the Terriers to 61 yards total 
offense in the first half and 180 in the 
game.
The second half was no different than 
the first as the Tartans physically 
dominated the Terriers. Hiram did manage 
a third quarter score to make the game 
something of a contest.
Hiram’s score was setup indirectly by 
their own four with a 45 yard boot. The 
Tartan offense was unable to advance and 
Dick West punted out to the Tartan 46.
Tony Rinella hooked up with flanker 
Lee Morris for an 11 yard pickup on the 
first play. Rinella was racked up on the 
play by a vicious Keith Baker tackle and 
was forced to leave the game. Baker now 
leads the PAC in the injured quarterback
CMU's Pete Antamarino taking the rough road.Photos by Carl West
The first half was a scoreless affair 
until late in the second quarter when Tech 
exploded for two touchdowns within 
a 43 second span.
The Tartans took the ball on their own 
29 with just over four minutes remaining in 
the half. Despite the preponderance of 
rushing in the game, it was the Tartan 
air attack that set up the score. A 35 yard 
pass interference penalty against Hiram 
kept the drive alive and a spectacular 
diving grab by Billy O’Mara after a Jay 
Duquette pass kept the drive going.
, O’Mara’s circus catch moved the ball to 
the Terrier 13. Three plays later, West 
crashed in untouched from the four yard 
line for the score. Tom McMeekin added 
the conversion for a 7-0 Tech lead with 
1:31 remaining in the half.
A personal foul against Hiram on 
the conversion enabled the Tartans to 
kickoff from the Hiram 45 following the 
score. McMeekin got off an excellent kick 
and the Terriers were only able to return 
the ball to their own 13.
Hiram attempted to run out the clock
FOOTBALL STATISTICS
CMU Hiram 
FIRST DOWNS 21 9
YARDS RUSHING 295 121
YARDS PASSING 74 59
PASSES 5-11 5-15
PASSES INTERCEPTEr ? 3
PUNTS 4 29 6-J3 5
FUMBLES LOST 0 1
YARDS PENALIZED 5 65 4 56
CMU 0 14 0 7 21
Hiram 0 0 0 8 8
CMU- West 4 run (McMeekin Kick)
CMU- Schademan 11 pass from Duquette 
Hiram-Mignogna 2 run 
CMU-Rothermel 6 run (McMeekin Kick)
category. He knocked John Carroll’s 
starting quarterback out of the 
game played last week.
Rinella was replaced by Steve 
Mignogna who hit tight end Bob Gittings 
with a 25 yard pass on his first play to set 
up a first and goal on the Tech five. It took 
four plays, but Mignogna scored on a two 
yard roll out,to thwart the Tech goal line 
stand. Mignogna hit Kevin Brandenberg for 
a two-point conversion to bring Hiram to 
within six, 14-8, with 12:37 left in the 
game.
That was as close as Hiram was to 
get. Carnegie got the ball after an 
exchange of punts on their 30 with just 
over six minutes remaining and proceeded 
to move 70 yards in 11 plays for the score. 
The entire drive was on the ground. West 
had 38 yards on six carries, Pete 
Antamarino three on one and Pete 
Rothermel 23 on four including a six yard 
touchdown run with 0:24 remaining in the 
game. McMeekin was again • 
perfect on the conversion making the final 
score 21-8.
In general, CMU’s offense has improved 
progressively over the season. The defense 
being one of the smallest in the league, has 
made adjustments and is still working out 
minor details. The game on Saturday 
proved that both units are capable and 
willing to give all they’ve got.
The win left Tartan Head Coach Joe 
Gasparella pleased. “We executed well 
and beat them physically” said Gasparella, 
a man who is a close rival of Dallas Cowboy 
Head Coach Tom Landry, in the simplified 
statement department, after the game. 
The win raises Tech’s record to 2-2 in 
the conference, 3-2 overall. The Tartans 
are home again this Saturday when they 
take on the Bethany Bisons in an extremely 
important Presidents Athletic Conference 
game.
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
PASSING: CMU—Duquette 5-11-74
Hiram—Rinella 3-12-40, Mignogna
2-3-19.
RECEIVING: CMU—Gatehouse 1-13, West 
1-16, Bonn 1-9, O'Mara
1-25, Schademan 1-11.
Hiram-Gittings 1-25
RUSHING: CMU-West 23-143, Rothermel 
6-31. Duquette 8-38, Bonn 
12-48, Counihan 6-14.
Hiram-Williams 14-29, Jackson 
5-46, Naro 6-7
CMU's Pat Counihan on the move.Bethany 
Beware
by Gerry Fraley
The somewhat scrambled Presidents Athletic 
Conference title race may be deared up this 
Saturday when the Camegie-Mellon Tartans host 
the Bethany Bisons at Tech Stadium.
The Tartans, coming off an impressive 21-8 
Homecoming victory over the Hiram Terriers, 
have a 2-2 conference record, 3-2 overall. 
Bethany is 2-1 in the conference. Both teams trail 
the surprising Washington and Jefferson 
Presidents who lead the conference with a
3-1 record. Their only loss came at the hands 
of the Tartans. Neither team can afford a loss 
if they hope to stay in contention for the 
conference title.
Bethany came back from a 7-0 deficit to 
down the Thiel Tomcats 10-7 last Saturday. 
Quarterback Rod Clements, who has taken 
over for senior Steve Sekelik, tossed a 12 
yard scoring toss to split end Wilson Darwin with 
1:15 left in the game and Bob Williams hit a 
26 yard field goal with :10 remaining to give 
the Bisoas the win.
Saturday’s game will be a battle of 
basically similar styles of play. Bethany runs 
the veer offense that the Tartans have 
employed for the first time tliis season. 
Spearheading the Bison veer is wing-back 
Tom Miller, a 5-7, 161 pound junior from 
Murrysville, Pa. Miller leads the PAC in 
rushing after the first three weeks of the 
season but this position is being threatened 
by Tartan running bade Dick West. West 
a 5-8, 175 bound junior from Monroeville, Pa. 
has picked up 261 yards in his last two games 
including a 143 yard performance against 
Hiram.
Bethany’s defense could be the only one tlie 
Tartans will encounter this season that is 
smaller physically than their own. Only one 
member of the Bison defensive unit goes over 
200 pounds. Bethany Head Coach Don Ault 
shows no concern over his rather small 
defensive unit. “The kids have shown that 
they can make up for their overall lack of 
size with hustle and desire. Our attitude and 
physical condition are excellent.” said Ault.
CMU's Dick West eluding a tackle.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975-Page 13
by Elly Zimmerman
After eating salty popcorn, a hot dog 
with relish, and a coke I sat down to enjoy 
the Homecoming football game with the 
Tartans facing Hiram. At the time the 
score was 7-0 CMU. There was 1:21 left 
before half time. Within a few seconds, 
^1 witnessed a touchdown pass by Duquette 
which changed the score to 13-0. The 
conversion was good. With time running 
out Hiram received the kick off and was 
unable to move out of their own territory 
before half time. Festivities started with 
a welcoming speech for the alumni. 
Looking around the stands it was apparent 
that the average age of those attending 
f was 45 years.
Immediately following this speech 
an obscure award was presented to Bob 
Pyzdrowski, who as a senior last year 
was voted MVP of the football team. 
After struggling with the reading of his 
speech, James Banner, the Athletic 
Director, presented Bob with the award.
Next the announcer introduced the 
East Allegheny High School Marching 
Band. A middle-aged woman with 
blond hair sitting behind me exclaimed, 
“A high school band? Is this school 
so chintzy that they don’t have their 
own marching band? Boy how cheap 
can they get?” At this point I felt 
it was my obligation to point out to 
this lady that CMU has a fine orchestra. 
She agreed but expressed concern that 
they didn’t have a band and she pro­
ceeded to ask me why. I rationalized 
the answer by saying there wasn’t enough
Photo by John Rose 
Rick Schademan making second touchdown.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL RESULTS 
GOOD LEAGUE
winloss
BTP “A”10
PKT & DG “B”21
DTD11
Mike Wimer’s Shoes12
Mudge Red12
BAD LEAGUE
winloss
Franks All-Stars20
The Fives01
Peer Help02
Oriental Vegetables01
TX10
SAE“B”10
UGLY LEAGUE
winloss
SAE “A”20
Chicken Coop11
PKT & DG “A”02
Dirty Socks10
Mudge Green01
OPINION
.HO-HUM HOMECOMING
interest for a band. Her views were that 
if the football team was better.there would 
be interest. I was at a loss for words when 
she added, “It sure was impressive having 
the bagpipes in front of the band.” My 
friend next to me mumbled something 
about the school still having pipers but 
but that they don’t march anymore. 
We went to refill our cokes as the 
conversation ended. Then it dawned on 
me; because the field was such a 
quagmire the high school band couldn’t 
march anyway. Our very own Kiltie 
Band which always plays in one spot 
could have easily handled the assign­
ment. As the strains of Rossini’s 
“William Tell Overture” came to a close 
we returned to our seats.
Chatting about Helen O’Bannon’s recent 
nomination to the Public Utilities 
Commission, we were impressed with the 
important faces present in the audience. 
Just to our left^six rows down was Richard 
Van Horn Vice President for Business 
Affairs passing the time of day with 
Arnold Weber , Provost and former 
member of President Nixon’s Wage 
and Price Control Board. Two rows 
above them was Jack McCredie, Director 
of the Computation Center. In the front 
row, a photographer was trying to get 
a picture of this important gathering. 
Just as the shutter clicked Bill Jacobs, 
President of Student Dormitory Council 
waved his hand in front of the lens ruining 
the shot. As the opposing teams returned 
to the field Van Horn and McCredie 
departed for another part of the stadium.
Next I noticed the Brothers of DTD 
attempted to build a human pyramid 
on the 50-yard line. The first three 
layers were successfully completed. With 
two more to follow, the bottom layer 
began to falter. Surprisingly, they were 
able to complete the pyramid before 
it collapsed. As the teams became im-
TOUCHDOWN!
Photo by Paul Williams
patient waiting for the pyramid to finish, 
several announcements were read over the 
P.A. but I could only catch the final 
statement, “ ...the cost is ten dollars.” 
The Tartans kicked off to Hiram to 
begin the second half. The teams ex­
changed punts several times, consumming 
most of the third quarter. CMU’s playei 
numbered 88 left the field after an 
important play. Wondering why a starting 
player would be leaving at that time, 
I watched him intently. At first glance 
he didn’t appear to be injured but later 
I noticed the trainer grabbing some towels 
and applying first aid to his head. As 
team members were turned away by the 
trainer, I became more concerned about 
the seriousness of the injury. The bloodied 
towels were replaced with new ones and 
within a couple of minutes the bleeding
was controlled and a bandage was applied 
to his nose. Recalling a previous 
football article that a CMU player had 
broken his nose in another game, I then
realized that this was the same playef.
I was impressed and at the same time 
awed that a player would sacrifice 
so much for a game. More impressing 
however, was that he tried and succeeded
in returning to the game. The rest of the 
afternoon seemed anti-climatic with 
the Tartans dominating play until the 
very end.
The public address system crackled as 
an announcement was read. Again all 
that I could make out was “... the cost 
is ten dollars.”
continued on page fifteen
Get your heads together.
From one beer lover to another.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
Gym Opening Soon 
Bring Your I.D/s
by Elly Zimmerman
New gymnasium and pool hours were 
announced recently by James Banner, the 
Athletic Director. For the first time in*CMU’s history, the gym will officially open 
on Sundays. This has been a long awaited 
improvement in policies governing facilities 
on campus. On Sunday the pool will be 
open ONLY for the faculty, the staff and 
their families, from 1:00 to 3:00 pm. 
However, from 3:00 to 5:00 pm the pool 
will open to the campus community.
Banner plans to reduce the amount of
vandalism and freeloaders in the building 
by having information checkers at the 
main door. These people will be checking 
the ID’s of all persons entering the building. 
All students are encouraged to bring their 
ID’s for admittance. The secondary 
entrance, at the women’s end of the gym 
will be locked at approximately 2:30 every 
day.
Having the facilities open on the week­
end was tried experimentally last year 
but student response was poor. To prove 
that this is a sound policy students should 
try to use the facilities at these new hours.
GYMNASIUM SCHEDULE BEGINNING OCTOBER 13, 1975
MEN'S GYM
SWIMMING POOL
Mon. — Fri. 
^Saturday 
Sunday
Mon. — Fri.
1 Saturday 
Sunday 
For Faculty, 
Staff, Families 
General
until 9:00 P.M, 
10:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M, 
10:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M
11:30- 1:30 P.M. 
6:30-8:30 P.M.
1:00 - 5:00 P.M.
1:00 - 3:00 P.M. 
3:00-5:00 P.M.
*Closed when a "home” athletic event is scheduled.
LD. cards must be presented for admission to the building. Guests accom­
panying holders of I.D. cards will be charged $1.00 per person for use 
of the gymnasium facilities.
Buggy Comments
by L .S.D.C.
The 1975-76 buggy season officially 
opened last Sunday morning with the first 
fall freeroll practice of the academic year. 
The weather was perfect as the sun rose- 
clear skies and a slight chill in the air. Only 
five organizations participated in the prac­
tice this week so everyone involved had 
sufficient time to get quite a few rolls in. 
Some organizations were training new 
drivers while others were accumulating 
more experience for their veteran drivers, 
and as any buggy driver will tell you, you 
can never get too much experience driving 
a buggy.
The practice session ran remarkably well 
considering the many problems that have 
been encountered during freerolls in the 
past few years. The new Sweepstakes 
Chairperson, Joan Bothwell, was out of 
town and unable to attend the freeroll. 
Her position was capably filled however 
by Ruth Weis, one of the co-buggy chair- 
people for the Carnegie-Mellon Involve­
ment Association. The new safety inspec­
tor, Charles Campbell of Sigma Nu, was 
also on hand all morning inspecting buggies 
and administering the brake tests that are 
required before every freeroll practice.
In an effort to reduce some of the traf­
fic control problems that have been en­
countered in the past, a new system of 
closing and opening the course was intro­
duced. Before each heat, a designated car 
would drive completely around the course 
and tell all of the flagpeople to close the 
course to all traffic. After the last buggy
of the heat has had sufficient time to travel 
around the course, the same car would 
again drive completely around the course 
and give the word to let the traffic pass. 
This system worked fairly well but is by no 
means perfect. The ultimate solution to 
this problem is the employment of six or 
seven hand held two-way radios. These 
could be used to inform the flagpeople 
at each intersection of what was happening 
at all times. They might also be very help­
ful in emergency situations when the quick 
flow of information is sometimes vital. The 
only drawback to this ultimate system is 
that it has a very high initial cost.
During the past summer, the City of 
Pittsburgh had pity on all of the CMU 
buggy drivers so they decided to pave a 
major portion of the free-roll side of the 
buggy course. The job was completed well 
before the fall semester began and it is just 
beautiful. The drivers should appreciate 
the smoother rides that they will be getting 
without all of those large potholes to con­
tend with. This should also help to improve 
freeroll times significantly and it wouldn’t 
be much of a surprise if the course record 
were to be broken again next spring.
More fall freeroll practices have been 
scheduled for the next few Sundays and it 
is expected that more organizations will be 
participating in them. With Spring Carnival 
scheduled so early next semester, the al­
ways unpredictable Pittsburgh weather 
could cancel many of the spring freerolls. 
This could make the fall freerolls much 
more valuable then they may appear to be.
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811
Photo by Paul Williams 
CMU's Paul Gehman heading the ball.
SOCCER 
WIN 8-2
by Mark Canepa
After losing to the University of Pitts­
burgh last week, the Tartan Soccer Team 
played another though opponent Thursday 
in a non-PAC game.
Playing in a downpour and in a below 
average condition Tech Field, the Tartans 
swept the Point Park Team away. The 
game opened in favor of the Tartans, who 
quickly took control and after less than 
five minutes scored the first goal of the 
game. Bad field conditions soon slowed 
the game down considerably and gave the 
Tartans a decisive advantage. Rookie 
goalie Steve Birke who played with 
a broken finger, played a very good game. 
Despite the mud in the goal area, Steve 
was able to make some great saves. Steve 
is now starting goalie for the Tartans due 
to a dislocated shoulder that will keep 
Tim Bosch sidelined for the rest of the 
year.
The final score was 8-2 in favor of 
CMU with goals by Paul Gehman, Bob 
Russell, John Hunt, Tom Binnie, Doug 
Steele, and Tim Calligan. Steve King was 
thrown out of the game following a dispute 
with the referee about cheap shots. Next 
week the Tartans host Bethany on Tues­
day, Octobe; 14 at 3:00.
KLUTZES 
ARE NO.1
by Holle Humphries
In the last round of the Women’s 
Volleyball Intramurals, the “Klutzes” 
of Kappa Kappa Gamma emerged 
victorious, with a final record of four 
wins and only one loss to the “Faculty 
Grads”. Other teams participating in the 
competition included “Hanna’s Band” of 
Delta Gamma, “6C’f of Kappa Alpha
Theta , the “Wombats”, and the “Dogs”.
To celebrate, Charlotte Spier, the 
team’s captain, was ceremoniously ponded 
in the Morewood fountain in the midst of 
a torrential downpour by her teammates. 
The winning team includes: Linda Rupp, 
Ingrid Goedicke, Wendy Paul, Fran Pauly, 
Kathy Knetski, Liz Williams, Barb 
McAuley, Gail Yaspan, Johanna Conte, 
Jan Caywood, and Clair Blatt.
JOT THIS DOWN
CROSS-COUNTRY IM - Tuesday, Oct. 14 
(Today). Meet at Flagstaff Hill. Teams 
of three people or individual entries are 
allowed.
IM BOARD — Meeting Tuesday at 4:30 
in Mr. Birdy’s office.
ALL STUDENTS MUST BRING ID’S TO 
GET INTO GYMNASIUM.
FACULTY TENNIS - Report scores to 
Mr. Maloney.
WEEK OF OCT. 13, 1975
Bill Banks vs
Claude Lupis vs
Rodger Pederson vs 
John Brindle vs
Bill Banks 
Claude Lupis 
Oscar Mayer 
Ted Haller
vs
vs
vs
vs
Ted Haller 
Oscar Mayer 
Jack McCredie 
John Nagle
Rodger Pederson 
Jack McCredie 
John Brindle 
John Nagle
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
cgiR •>CCrim
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS • RESUMES • CATALOGS • POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS • BUSINESS CARDS • FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS • BOOKLETS • SCHEDULES
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteers 
are needed for Bioavailability Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
—Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
—Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in­
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50- 
$500, depending upon time requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 682-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
(Do not eat breakfast)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975-Page 15
IM FOOTBALL RESULTS
through October 11
MAJOR LEAGUE
1. BTP “A”60
2. PIKA “A”61
3. ALL STARS42
4. DOLPHINS33
5. ATO34
6. SAE13
7. PKT “A”04
8. SPIRIT06
INTERMEDIATE A
1. KS40
2. TX41
3. GSIA22
4. PIKA “B”12
5. STINK14
6. DTD03
INTERMEDIATE B
1. RED DEATH
2. McGILLDOES
3. CLAMS
4. OILERS
3
3
2
2
1
* 1
1
1
2
2'I5. ZBTÓ
6.SN .D
MINORS A
1. SABRES40
2. OGRES21
3. SLUGS2
4. GORILLAS2 •2
5. TURKEYS12
6. LOBSTERS. 03
MINORS B
1. PKT “B” J30
2. RANGERS30
13. DUNGEONS2
14. BETA “C”2
5. PL PHI03
6. DU03
Beta Blasts PIKA 
Fischer Commands
HOMECOMING
continued from page fourteen
Noticing the sparseness of people 
on the opposite side of the field, I began 
to wonder what had happened to the old 
School enthusiasm. Where were the crowds 
of old? About this time another announce­
ment blared concerning the fifth quarter 
cash bar after the game. The game 
ended on a good note however with 
the final score 21-8 CMU. As the 
crowd dispersed I had this empty feeling 
inside;' Maybe it was the lack of the 
helicopter on the cut, or the sad clown 
that sat on Skibo’s steps or maybe even 
the old alumni returning but whatever 
the case, Homecoming was missing some­
thing this year.
by Roger Geddes
Beta quarterback John Fischer passed 
for four touchdowns and ran for two as 
Beta defeated Pika for the first time in 
seven years, 39 — 20. In doing so, Beta 
finished in first place for regular season 
competition and could complete an un­
defeated season with a win over SAE on 
Tuesday. Pika finishes their season with a
6 — 1 record for second place.
The combination of Fischer to Bickar 
for three touchdown passes and timely 
first downs was the downfall of the Pika 
defense. Bickar, a varsity end for two 
years, caught passes of 25, 40, and 12 
yards for tolichdowns. Also the well 
executed center bust kept Pika off balance. 
The Beta defense was equally up to the 
task shutting off the Pika double pass 
which has annihilated so many other 
teams.
The game started out with both teams 
showing their potent offenses. Pika quar­
terback Jay Harper hit end Paul Minor with 
an 18 yard pass for a first down and three 
plays later hit him again for an eight yard 
touchdown catch.
Beta wasted "no time when four plays 
later Fischer tied the game with a 25 yard 
aerial to Bickar alone in the end zone.
Pika 'took charge-of the momentum on 
their next possession wjien Harper threw a
35 yard scoring pass to Emmett Reed for 
six points and Mark Vranderic intercepted 
a Beta pass to get the ball back. Two 
completions to Reed brought the ball 
down to the Beta 8 with first and goal to 
go as Pika threatened to take a two touch­
down lead. But the turning point came 
when the Beta defense held their ground 
and stopped them on four straight plays.
Passes to Jon Jones and Steve Berry 
set up an eight yard run by Fischer to tie 
the score at 13 — 13. Dennis O’Connell 
then intercepted a Pika pass in the closing 
seconds of the half but the Beta blue could 
not capitalize.
The second half was almost completely 
dominated by Beta. Out of their six posses­
sions they scored four times.
Neither team could sustain a drive in 
their first possession of the half. But 
Fischer took to the ground for two center 
busts for one point and then hit Bickar 
with an 11 yard pass on a fourth down 
play to keep the drive alive. On the last 
play of the quarter, Fischer ran it in from 
nine yards out to take the lead.
Pika came storming back with a 23 
first down pass to Bob Kozero. But a
B’NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
GRADUATE SOCIAL
Wine and Cheese 
Saturday October 1 8 9 p.m. 
Where? Hillel Lounge, 3rd Floor 
31 5 S. Bellefield 
Cost for Food: $1.00 
************ and **********
Reception with Cast 
of the Israeli Chassidic Festival 
10:30 p.m. October 1 8 
Where? Hillel Library, 3rd floor 
31 5 S. Bellefield 
Cost for food: $ 1.00
315 S. Bellefield Avenue (Across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
i i
quarterback sack by Dave Cacciamani put 
them out of scoring range as an 18 yard 
pass to Tom Leoffler on fourth down was 
short of a first down.
With the score 20 — 14 and 4:45 left in 
the game, Pika almost turned the game 
around when Jim Puder intercepted a pass 
at the Beta 12 yard line. All hopes of a 
Pika victory ended thoughts a strong Beta 
defense forced four incomplete passes. 
Fischer then put the game out of reach 
with a 40 yard bomb to Bickar for six 
points.
Pika still did not let down as 
they pulled to within six points with a 35 
yard touchdown pass to Chuck D’Angelo. 
But Fischer put the icing on with a 12 yard 
scoring pass to the speedy Bickar and also 
hit John Langford with a 20 yard touch­
down pass after a Cacciamani interception 
in the last minute of the game. Seven years 
of waiting had ended with a convincing 
39 - 20 victory.
The playoff teams in the major leagues 
have almost been decided. The All-Stars 
have clinched third place and will play 
Pika in the semi-finals. A Dolphin victory 
over Phi Kap Tuesday will capture fourth 
place for the Dolphins and earn them a 
spot against Beta in the semi-finals.
In intermediate action, first place KS 
will play the winner of the Oilers — Mc- 
Gilldoes battle Wednesday which will 
decide second place in the “B” division. 
Theta Xi will play Red Death if Red Death 
wins their last game over ZBT.
In the minors, the Sabres have clinched
TENNIS IM RESULTS
ASHE LEAGUE
WinLoss
GSIA70
SUPA42
Jive Turkeys42
GSIA Optimals42
Psychology13
Metallurgy02
Phi Kappa Theta “B”03
Kappa Sigma05
BORG LEAGUE
WinLoss
Hammerschlag50
GSIA Aces41
Phi Kappa Theta12
Puma12
ATO03
Aliens12
CONNERS LEAGUE
WinLoss
Arpa Nets31
Clams31
Top Seed31
SAE21
Pika13
R. Fault02
Freedman03
GOLF FINALS
Three teams and nineteen golfers competed
in golf intramurals last week. Resultswere:
First place — Chegsa Syndicate
Second — Sigma Nu
Third — Zeta Beta Tau
the “A” division and the winner of the 
Slugs — Ogres game will take second. In 
the “B” division, the Rangers, PKT “B”, 
and Dungeons will try for two playoff 
spots this week.
Hear
Wainwright
"THE MORNING 
AFTER”
7-9:30 A.M.
MON. - FRIDAY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-October 14, 1975
Hewlett-Packard representative to demonstrate on campus, 
WED. OCT. 22, 1975
He'll show you how to get the most out of any HP calculator. Just come to 
BOOKSTORE, 10 A.M. — 2 P.M. on OCT. 22, 1975
The uncompromising ones.
<?3W5610-(? I
\——OH 0£GRAD
ijw "/a WV" “\a
y» sm-i cos-» tan-1
xiye* ”beLN LOGRCLK>x
ENTER ? iWJ" ..crr rrWfc",.
piB
HB
(9
E9wmB
tmm MtWlItt • »» A O A. <* » * <*
- /d 345610-<? 5
OFFON PRGMRUN
FIXSCIENG
""“o"“
m 'ni
SvX-
xiy
%—n
V*"“V —Wf£+
PREFIXPRGM REG STK
.a“.— nWJ" ..c WfcOEG RAO ano
x<yInlog ?R
HÉ9 RË
«incos tan
H'qBom PR
*#yINTnr yxHi
Xmy?H.MSLASTx PAUSE
H13B CS3
iiFJMM M«wi,»tr . (ìaokaho am
The Hewlett-Packard The Hewlett-PackardHP-21 Scientific HP-25 Scientific Programmable$125.00* $195.00*
The calculations you (ace require no less.
Today, even so-called "non-technical” courses 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari­
ety of technical calculations—complicated cal­
culations that become a whole lot easier when 
you have a powerful pocket calculator.
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such 
calculators around, but ours stand apart, and 
ahead. We started it all when we introduced the 
world’s first scientific pocket calculator back in 
1972, and we’ve shown the way ever since.
The calculators you see here are our newest, 
the first of our second generation. Both offer you 
technology you probably won’t find in compet­
itive calculators for some time to come, if ever.
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and 
trig calculations, including rectangular/polar 
conversions and common antilog evaluations.
It’s display is fully formatted, so you can choose 
between fixed decimal and scientific notation.
Our HP-25 does all that—and much, much 
more. It’s programmable, which means it can 
solve automatically the countless repetitive 
problems every science and engineering student 
faces.
With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes 
necessary to solve the problem only once. 
Thereafter, you just enter the variables and 
press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant 
answer accurate to 10 digits.
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all 
means do two things: ask your instructors 
about the calculations their courses require; and 
see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
handle them.
See both the HP-21 and HP-25 on display 
today at your bookstore. And ask the Hewlett- 
Packard representative to show you just how 
valuable an HP calculator can be.
HEWLETT Lhpi PACKARD
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 
Dept. 658C, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
615/«
‘Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes— 
Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii.
