Allen Newell 1927-1992
¿m
CMU loses esteemed professor
Newell, who helped found SCS, dead of cancer at 65
courtesy of CMU Public Relations
Chi Omega national 
women’s fraternity revokes
Omicron Delta charter
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The campus community lost a vital member this past sum­
mer, as Allen Newell, one of the pioneers in the fields of 
artificial intelligence and cognitive science, died of cancer on 
July 19 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. Newell was 65.
Newell, the U.A. and Helen Whitaker Professor of Computer 
Science, had an international reputation for his groundbreaking 
work in artificial intelligence, the theory of human cognition 
and development of computer software and hardware systems 
designed to process complex information.
Newell spent his life trying to unlock the mystery of how the 
human mind functions. He intended to create models of the 
mind so that he could test his. theories of how the brain 
junctions and processes in­
formation.
His <i-'v-' th came less than 
a monii- after he was 
awarded the prestigious 
National Medal of Science 
by President Bush in a cer­
emony at the White House.
His other awards and hon­
ors included the Harry 
Goode Award of the Ameri-
canFederationoflnforma- __________________________
tion Processing Societies;
the A.M. Turing Award of the Association for Computing 
Machinery, jointly with CMU professor Herbert Simon; the 
Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award of the American 
Psychological Association; the Research Excellence Award of 
the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence; 
the Emanuel R. Piore Award of the Institute for Electrical and 
Electronic Engineers; and the Franklin Institute’s Louis E. 
Levy Award. In addition, he held honorary doctoral degrees 
from the University of Pennsylvania and Groeningen Univer­
sity in the Netherlands.
Bom in San Francisco in 1927, Newell received a bachelor’s 
degree in physics from Stanford University in 1949. He spent 
a year at Princeton doing graduate work in mathematics, and 
worked for the Rand Corporation as a research scientist from 
1950-1961. While with Rand, he met Simon, a Nobel Laureate 
and then-prof‘OCBnr inHnnt.rinl flHrmrnnt.mf.irvn nt. Clnrnfipifi
“Working with Ai was fun, as it 
always is when you work with 
someone who is bright and has 
good ideas. ”
— Herbert Simon 
Professor of Psychology
Institute of Technology. His discussions with Simon on how 
human thinking could be modeled led him to come to Pitts­
burgh so that they could collaborate. Newell earned his 
doctorate in industrial administration from Carnegie Tech’s 
business school in 1957.
“Working with Al was fun, as it always is when you work 
with someone who is bright and has good ideas,” said Simon. 
“It was fun, just as you might have fun playing football or 
going to the movies.”
Newell joined the faculty as a professor in 1961. He played 
a crucial role in creating Carnegie Mellon’s Department 
(later School) of Computer Science and turning it into a 
world-renowned institution.
Simon says that he was one of a small number of people 
who turned SCS into the preeminent school of its kind in the 
world.
“Al devoted a lot of his time to 
institution building. Of course, there 
were benefits to his work, as well. 
[SCS] gave him an environment to 
do his work in, and enabled him to attract graduate students to the Uni­
versity, but he gave a lot to the 
University besides that which would 
benefit him,” said Simon.
Newell wont to thon CMU Presi­
dent Richard Cyort with the idea of 
creating a campus computer net­
work. Simon called Nowell’s report on the subject a “major 
guidopost.” Said Simon, “His idoa was that Cnrnogio Mollon 
should be a pionoor in tho field — wo had the skills, wo 
should be out in front, to make it a part of the educational 
process.”
After the early 1980s, his work centered on the creation of 
and development of Soar, an artificially intelligent software 
system capable of problem solving and learning in ways 
similar to human beings. Soar provides a framework for 
intelligence systems that allow computer systems to per­
form cognitive skills. It is now in use at research institutions 
around the country.
As a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the 
National Academy of Engineering, and the American Acad­
emy of Arts and Sciences, Newell wrote and co-authored
m____________ MC1MCI I itirln 7
By HEIDI HOOVER
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Omicron Delta chapter 
of Chi Omega, a national 
women’s fraternity, no longer 
exists. Chi Omega at CMU lost 
its national charter at the end 
of last spring, catapulting 13 
active sisters,six of whom were 
new initiates, into premature 
alumna status.
Chi Omega is the largest 
Greek women’s fraternity, with 
over 175,000 sisters and pledges 
across the nation. Chi Omega’s 
Omicron Delta chapter was 
colonized here in August of 
1944, and has always been a 
relatively small chapter, ac­
cording to the sisters. Some 
women joined specifically be­
cause the chapter was small, 
and the sisters were conse­
quently very close to one an­
other.
The flip side of having a small 
chapter is problems with low 
membership. According to Jen­
nifer Pociernicki, a senior En­
glish major who served as presi­
dent ofthe Omicron Delta chap­
ter last spring, membership has
been a problem for the last 10 
years. She says it was these 
types of difficulties that pre­
cipitated Chi Omega’s national 
leadership’s decision to close 
down the chapter.
Toward the end of last April, 
says Pociernicki, the chapter’s 
advisor, Linda Harrington, a 
local Chi Omega alumna, called 
national representatives in to 
help solve organizational prob­
lems the Omicron Delta chap­
ter was having. In Pociemicki’s 
opinion, last semester there 
were just too many official posi­
tions that needed to be filled, 
and too few sisters to fill them. 
Consequently, the sisters were 
spreading themselves very 
thinly, and no one had the time 
to do her job properly.
Harrington denies calling the 
national representatives, say­
ing they came on their own. 
She did not wish to comment 
further. Melanie Shain, the 
president of Chi Omega na­
tional, could not be reached for 
comment.
Pociernicki, like her sisters, 
was devastated by national’s 
decision to make CMU’s Chi O
chapter inactive. It’s a small 
comfort to the Chi O sisters at 
CMU that the house is only 
closed temporarily, to recolo- 
nize in the future. Their house, 
their family, is still gone, and 
most, if not all, of them will 
have graduated by the time it 
comes back. Nevertheless, 
Pociernicki says, “I think they 
made the decision they had to 
make.”
Julie Saltman, a junior 
drama major who was Chi O’s 
secretary last semester, dis­
agrees. “When the going got 
tough, Chi Omega [national] 
got up and ran,” she says with 
some bitterness. Organiza­
tions have problems, she says, 
and you should work through 
them and solve them. Further­
more, she says, the sisters here 
have a different perspective 
than national does. “To na­
tional, 10 years of problems is
10 years of problems. To the 
sisters, it’s one semester of 
problems.”
According to Saltman, last 
semester’s problems startedin 
January when officers were 
Please see CHI O, page 3Housing Director Martin resigns
Volume 87, Issue 1Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania31 August 1992
©1992 Universal Press Syndicate In today’s comics!
• CMU Tartans football is 
ready to rock!
See page 11
• Stress, stress, stress — 
and a recipe to relieve it.
See page LI
• Javi’s back with a 
vengeance! Tune in to Javi- 
vision one last time.
See page L3
• Pittsburgh’s only Calvin 
and Hobbes is right here!
See page L5
The return of Calvin and Hobbes
Inside
Classifieds...........................13
Comics.................................L5
Diversions...........................L9
Features..............................LI
Sports...................................11
University Calendar........L12
VoxPopuli.........................LI 2
Position eliminated by Student Affairs
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Asst. News Editor
After an 11-year tenure at Carn­
egie Mellon University, Anthony M. 
Martin resigned as CMU housing 
director on June 30.
According to Martin, his abrupt 
resignation was part of a larger ad­
ministrative change in the Housing 
Office, which involved the removal 
of the position of CMU housing di- 
rectorentirely. “Mike Murphy [Dean 
of Student Affairs] was desirous of a 
change in terms of the structure of 
the Housing Office ... to acknowl­
edge his leadership and his supervi­
sion I was willing to accommodate 
his desire for change,” said Martin.
Specifically, Amy Ginther and 
Dan Askin, who are assistant Hous­
ing directors for Residence Life and 
Housing Facilities respectively, now
report directly to Student Affairs, 
due to the elimination of Martin’s 
position. Housing operations and 
room assignments are now being 
handled by a new third assistant 
Housing director on the same bu­
reaucratic level Interim Assistant 
Housing Director for Administra­
tion Dave O’Brien. A permanent 
director iB being sought by Stu­
dent Affairs and will be hired and 
in place by September 11.
Originally the dean of men at 
Villanova University outside of 
Philadelphia, Martin waB hired 
as director of housing because of 
his experience with residence life 
and business management. In the 
summer of 1982, Martin was re­
sponsible for hiring Murphy as 
area coordinator.
Martin made a number of con­
tributions to the development of
housing at CMU since his arrival 
inthesummerofl981, according 
to Murphy. Under Martin’s di­
rection, a 10-year plan was ex­
ecuted to generally improve the 
quality of all residence halls, and 
in particular éonstruct the new 
dormitories, Resnik Hall and 
West Wing.
“There was an opportunity to 
improve both the managementof 
the residence halls from the busi­
ness point of view, as well as 
improve a fledgling residence life 
program,” said Martin, whose 
administration was able to as­
similate separate housing and 
residence life offices, handle a 
tight budget, double the number 
of resident assistants on campus 
and accommodate a greater num­
ber of housing requests over the 
years.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992
THIS JUST INMl
Andrew ravages southeast U. S.
, MIAMI, Aug 27 (AP) - The most pow­
erful hurricane to hit Florida since the 
1320s churned across the Gulf of Mexico 
toward New Orleans, leaving smashed 
homes and a wrecked Air Force base in 
its wake.
; More than 1.7 million people in Loui­
siana and Mississippi were asked or 
(irdered to evacuate. A hurricane warn­
ing was posted along 410 miles of coast 
from Pascagoula, Mississippi to Port 
Arthur, Texas.
I Hurricane Andrew threw its deadly 
fury into Louisiana’s bayous and 
inarshes with 140 miles per hour winds 
iind tornadoes, striking only a glancing 
blow at New Orleans before heading
deep into Cajun country.
The hurricane’s leading edge came 
ashore on Louisiana’s coast in a marshy 
area dotted with cypress trees, Spanish 
moss, and fields of sugar cane.
The storm center came ashore four 
hours later, 55 miles south-southeast 
of Lafayette.
President George Bush today declared 
parts of Louisiana a major disaster 
area, opening the door to federal aid.
Congress may be asked for hundreds 
of millions of dollars in supplemental 
appropriations to help pay for the dam­
age caused by Hurricane Andrew in 
Florida and Louisiana, a federal crisis 
manager said.
“I don’t know if its going to be $500 
million or a billion,” said Grant C. 
Peterson, associate director of the Fed­
eral Emergency Management Agency. 
“Louisiana is still under a disaster en­
vironment and we won’t know the ex­
tent of what is needed until we get in 
there.”
Peterson said at a news briefing that 
$57 million has been set aside as “seed 
money” for relief efforts in Florida. He 
said $77 million has been allocated to 
begin disaster relief in Louisiana. But 
he made clear that more would be 
needed.
“I am confident we will not have a 
problem here financially,” Peterson
said, adding that Congress and Bush 
have "never been hesitant to provide 
disaster assistance funds.”
Because of a long string of recent 
disasters Federal Emergency Manage­
ment Agency has already received a 
$800 million supplemental appropria­
tion this year.
It received an additional $1 billion in 
supplemental assistance from O'-v .'ess 
last year.
The disaster relief i . ^gemriti- 
cized for alleged sluggish,. T its 
response in the aftermath of Hu :ane 
Hugo in 1989 but Peterson said the 
relief system has been markedly im­
proved since then.
Bush responds to 
Andrew damage
; WASHINGTON, Aug. 28 (DJ) - With hundreds of 
thousands of residents of Florida and Louisiana — 
two states important to President George Bush’s re- 
election — homeless or without water and power, the 
federal government is organizing an unprecedented 
Response to Hurricane Andrew that could cost bil­
lions of dollars, The Wall Street Journal reported.
; The government is going so far as to send federal 
troops to Florida and to encourage federal workers to 
Volunteer to help. Even before the storm struck, both 
States were stocked with large amounts of equipment 
¿nd supplies needed to deal with the disaster. At a 
Minimum, officials hope to head off a replay of Hur­
ricane Hugo, which smashed the Carolinas in 1989 
dnd left thousands bitter at the slow pace of federal 
¿elief.
I The current relief effort gives Bush a chance to 
burnish his reputation as a leader in Florida, which 
political experts say he must carry in November, and 
Louisiana, where the vote is rated a tossup.
! Results so far have been mixed. Brett Kriger, 
deputy assistant director of Louisiana’s office of emer­
gency preparedness, praised the federal government 
for setting up equipment, food, and medical teams 
oven before the hurricane hit Louisiana.
• But Kate Hale, emergency operations director in 
Dade County, Fla. where hundreds of thousands are 
homeless, complained that Washington hadn’t acted 
swiftly enough.
Hurricane Andrew may become the most expensive 
natural disaster yet, eclipsing the $10 billion in 
damages caused by Hurricane Hugo. Hugo cost the 
ijederal government about $2 billion in disaster relief 
and loans, congressional staffers estimate. And offi­
cials in Florida say the damages from Hurricane 
Andrew could total $20 billion in that state alone.
I The Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(IFEMA), which coordinates disaster relief, pays up to 
$11,500 to individuals who need housing, and pro­
vides up to 75 percent of the cost of rebuilding roads, 
bridges and other public facilities.
! The agency can also cover the 25 percent of the cost
Courtesy National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration 
Satellite photo of Hurricane Andrew striking Florida
borne by the state and localities, said a congressional 
staffer, but rarely does.
After Hurricane Hugo, Bush was criticized for wait­
ing a week before visiting Charleston, S.C., and 
FEMA was faulted for setting up a paperwork morass 
that made it difficult for people to apply and receive 
relief funds. This time, both have tried to do better.
Bush has already visited the disaster area twice, 
and FEMA has ^et up a toll-free number so that 
people can start their applications even before the 
agency sets up processing centers. People are phon­
ing the number at a rate of12,000 calls an hour, said 
Kriger.
The president also instructed federal agencies to let 
workers who live in the disaster areas take time off, 
with pay, to volunteer fpr cleanup work.
Bush announced that he was directing federal 
troops to help Florida authorities cope with the dev­
astation. The Pentagon said 2,000 to 5,000 troops 
were being sent to Florida from Fort Bragg, N.C.
Meanwhile, the Labor Department gave $10 mil­
lion each to Florida and Louisiana, to pay for 5,000 
cleanup jobs in each state. That’s twice the amount 
that South Carolina received after Hugo and Califor­
nia received after the San Francisco earthquake in 
1989.
But Tommy Thomas, former Florida State Repub­
lican chairman, said all that may still not be enough 
to assuage the anger of potential voters.
Prices soar in 
hurricane's wake
ATLANTA Aug. 27 (AP) - Prices for plywood and 
other construction supplies have soared across the 
South in the wake of Hurricane Andrew’s destruc­
tion, and officials in storm-battered Florida said 
profiteering is rampant.
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth said 
he had subpoenaed several top wood suppliers in­
cluding industry giants Georgia-Pacific Corp., 
Weyerhaeuser Co., and Louisiana-Pacific Corp, to 
supply documentation justifying the price hikes.
“I don’t see any difference between the looters who 
go through the rubble in the trailer parks and the 
business people who cash in on this disaster by 
gouging customers,” Butterworth said.
Officials of the three big companies did not com­
ment immediately on the subpoenas, though At- 
lanta-based Georgia-Pacific issued a statement 
Thursday denouncing price gouging.
Prices for most merchandise connected with home 
building or repairs have risen this week as Andrew, 
which destroyed thousands of buildings in Florida 
and Louisiana, put pressure on an industry already 
experiencing low supplies.
Residents in the storm states need wood to board 
up and repair damaged buildings, but supplies are 
limited because general demand has been up in 
recent weeks and production in the Pacific North­
west has been curtailed by environmental disputes.
“This storm... could not have come at a worse time 
as far as supplies are concerned,” said Georgia- 
Pacific President A.D. Correll. “There is no addi­
tional capacity available in the industry to meet the 
tremendous need that has been created by the hur­
ricane.”
Recession woes 
blamed on other 
nations
NEW YORK Aug. 28 (D J)- The global 
business cycle is stalled for the moment 
because of the slow advance in the 
Japanese economy and a slight down­
turn in Canada, said the Conference 
Board, The Wall Street Journal re­
ported. The Conference Board is a 
nonprofit, industry-supported research 
organization. The indexes are compiled 
monthly as part of its International 
Economic Scoreboard.
A survey by the Conference Board 
found that the index of leading indica­
tors, which projects future economic 
conditions for 11 major industrialized 
countries, shows a very slight upward 
tilt.
Additionally, the composite economic 
performance index, which tracks cur­
rent economic activity, was unchanged 
in May. Excluding the U.S., the index 
for 10 industrialized nations grew 
slightly. Meanwhile, inflation is steady, 
with thell-nation composite rate hold­
ing at 3.4 percent.
“The most encouraging dimension of 
the report is the continued improve­
ment in breadth,” saidEdgarR. Fiedler, 
vice president of the Conference Board. 
With the exception of Canada and Ja­
pan, the leading indexes of nine coun­
tries are advancing, some at a more 
vigorous pace than others.
Japan’s business outlook is the weak­
est, despite the leveling off of the lead­
ing index in the last two months and a 
slow advance in the performance in­
dex, the board said. The leading index 
has plunged 13 percent since its peak 
two years ago.
It added that the Japanese govern­
ment has reacted by cutting the central 
bank’s discount rate on April 1 and 
increasing public works spending for 
the coming fiscal year.
The Canadian performance index 
shows a slight downward tendency in 
recent months, and unemployment ex­
ceeds 11 percent. Both in Germany and 
the U.S., a gradual upswing seems to be 
firmly established. In the U.K., Austra­
lia and New Zealand, the leading in­
dexes are encouraging, the board said.
News Briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service 
Layout by
Nathan Fullerton, Samuel Greenfield, and D.A. Henderson
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS ON THESE DOORS FIRST.
Why? Because Army ROTC helps you develop 
management and leadership skills. Builds your self- 
confidence. And makes you a desirable candidate 
in the job market.
There's no obligation until your junior year, but 
stick with it and you'll have what it takes to succeed 
— while you're in college and once you graduate.
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE TOD CAN TAKE.
University of Pittsburgh
Beverly ). Ertman
MAJOR UNITED STATES ARMYASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SCIENCE
2906 CATHEDRA! OF LEARNING PITTSBURGH PENNSYLVANIA 15260 0001 ¦412i624 6473

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 19923
rirnenlàëy.msmmUTim
VANESSA
^D{%E
4 EMMA
¿mTh ecapusao
wsr. wjûa Tara
Cars collide on Forbes Avenue
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Asst. News Editor
A minor automobile accident 
occurred on the comer of Forbes 
Avenue at Morewood Avenue 
yesterday. A blue Toyota 
Camry, driven by Tom 
Longstaff, hit an unidentified 
woman’s red Ford Tempo as 
she was making a turn from 
Forbes into Morewood. No one 
was injured.
Longstaff was driving west 
along Forbes, after having
picked up Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity student Steve Lacy. Also 
in the car were his wife, Andrea 
Kaufman, and his two-year old 
son, Isaac Longstaff. Longstaff 
had a green light as he intended 
to pass through the Morewood 
intersection. The unidentified 
woman, who was driving alone 
and heading east, intending to 
make the left turn intoMorewood, 
also had a green light, but no 
protected turn light. Both cars 
approached the intersection at 
approximately 2:30 pm. Neither
driver was able to brake in 
time to prevent a collision, and 
each car impacted the other’s 
right front corner. Neither 
party in the accident had any 
comment.
Lacy, a junior computer sci­
ence major, is a friend of the 
Longstaff family, which has 
been in Pittsburgh since 
March. Towing services esti­
mated approximately $1500 
damage to the Longstaff car, 
and an equal or greater amount 
of damage to the other.
CMU Chi Omega charter revoked
New campus group formed for support of 
gay, lesbian, bisexual students at CMU
By LISA VITALBO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A new student group has formed on the CMU 
campus this year called ALLIES. ALLIES is com­
prised of members who work to provide support for 
gays, lesbians, and bisexuals in the.community.
ALLIES’ ultimate goal is to bring an awareness 
of the growing problems of homophobia and 
heterosexism to the campus rather than attempt to 
. change people’s minds. Unfortunately, discrimina­
tion is the rule in our world rather than the excep­
tion, and ALLIES is looking to change that prob­
lem. Although ALLIES has formed to confront the 
evils of homophobia and heterosexism, the group 
eventually hopes to' end all forms of discrimina­
tion. When asked why the group has formed now as 
opposed to last year, Erik Larson, a third-year 
architecture major and avid member of ALLIES, 
said, “We finally brought enough people together 
so now we can stick with it.”
To become a member of ALLIES, one must open 
oneself up to the 10 percent of the world’s popula­
tion which is gay, lesbian, or bisexual, learn and 
teach with this population and eventually make a 
difference by supporting them with one’s courage. 
As Larson says, “We’re trying to create a climate 
where [gay, lesbian, and bisexual students] can be 
comfortable with themselves and we can elimate 
tension.”
Any interested students must be willing to wear 
the rainbow pin displayed by ALLIES members 
and also must be willing to take a chance. More 
information is available through either the Hous­
ing Office or Student Affairs. The term alliance is 
defined as “a union to promote a common interest,” 
so naturally an ally would be one who unites in 
alliance for the support of the common interest. 
The common interest of this particular alliance is 
to unite to provide support, increase awareness 
and possibly even end- homophobia and 
heterosexism in our community.
Corrections...
The Tartan corrects all errors of fact. If you know of an error, please. 
contact Heidi Hoover at x2111, or write to her in care of The Tartan.
CHI 0, from page 1
elected. She says many sisters 
were unhappy with the slate of 
officers, but “somehow the slate 
got passed.” Then, throughout 
the semester, problem-solving 
was “like putting a Band-Aid on a 
cough. People were solving the 
problems that weren't the main 
problem. It was much easier to 
deal with this sister not talking 
to that sister than that this sister 
shouldn’t be in this [office].”
The low membership, while 
certainly a factor, is largely an 
excuse in Saltman’s opinion. “I 
was the secretary,” she says. “I 
wrote everything down, and I 
never heard of it being an issue 
until the day before [Chi O] closed 
down.”
Saltman doesn’t believe the 
chapter will recolonize while she 
or any of the current sisters are 
still in school. “[National] won’t 
say what will bring them back,” 
she says.
“My biggest regret is that I en­
couraged the newest six sisters to 
initiate and I initiated them,” says 
Saltman.
Crystal Trexel, a sophomore IM 
and voice major who was one of 
the six pledges Saltman initiated 
one week after the national de­
cided to pull the charter, doesn’t 
share Saltman’s regret.
Trexel and the other five women 
decided to initiate because “We’re 
Chi Omegas. We decided, we 
haven’t been sisters, we’re new 
blood, and we’ll try to get the 
house back.”
It was a tough decision, whether 
or not to initiate into a house they 
knew wouldn’t be there. “We were 
told that if we decided not to
initiate we could rush this year 
instead of waiting a year, which 
is normally required if you pledge 
and depledge. None of us could 
see ourselves wearing any other 
letters, because we were Chi Os 
as far as we wore concerned.” 
Pat Harned, assistant to the 
Dean of Student Affairs and 
Greek advisor, says, “We’re in­
terested in seeing [Chi 0 at CMU] 
recolonize.”
Her impression of the national’s 
representatives is that “it was a
really painful decision for [the] 
national. The national [represen­
tatives] came wanting to do ev­
erything they could to be sup­
portive, but they felt that this 
was the bost possible solution at 
this time."
For now, the Omicron Delta 
chapter of Chi Omega is inactive. 
But Trexel and the sisters who 
initiated with her are motivated' 
and, says Trexel, “I believe we 
can come back as a very strong* 
chapter.”
('jomejcin us... tvc are the United. IUcuj
Unibed Way
HAIR CUTS 
EVERY DAY AT
S CIMIMI
* walk ins Welcomo
PassionEven if you don't play an instruments, you can help fill Heinz Hall! We have limited openings for our exciting subscription campaign. If you arc outgoing and articulate, we will teach you a skill that will last a lifetime. Have fun and cam up to $20/hr plus $$$ bonuses and complimentary tickets! PT day or eve. Parking.
Y MUSIC SOCIETY 
of the Jewish Community Center 1992-93 RECITAL SERIES AT CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
Mstislav
Sept. 20 ROSTROPOVICH
One of this century’s legendary cellists!
Cello
Richard
Oct. 4 GOODE Piano
His New York recital called "Best of the year." by the New York Times.
Zara
Dec. 9 KENJEBULATOVA Piano
"...great potential, vigorous power, and a very strong presence."
-Yoel Levi, Conductor of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra
Emanuel
Jun. 19 AX Piano
"...a keen musical intelligence and a heartfelt, unaffected interpretive style."
•Philadelphia Inquirer
Florence
Feb. 17 QU1VAR Mezzo -soprano
"...intense chamber music-like tonal quality and interpretation."
-Barliner Morten post
Jon
M-r.7 KIMURA PARKER pim„0
"He seems incapable of making a harsh or unmusical sound."
•Scatila Timex
Joshua
Apr. 10 BELL Violin
"...pays unabashed homage to the old school of the romantic virtuoso."
•NvMtluy
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTIONS ONl.Y $55
(No student rates on single tickets.)
SUBSCRlMi NOW CALL 521-8010
Final 4 Weeks!
FILM REPERTOR V
222 Craft Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213
621-6601
Sun. - Thurs. 7 pm 
Fri. & Sat. 7 & 9:30 pm
$5.00 person
Sure, you hate studying once in awhile. 
The Pittsburgh Symphony can relate. It's 
a great place to take a break from 
studying. At only $7.00 a concert for 
student season tickets you save up to 
60% off regular season tickets! So put 
away the books. Take a break and come 
out to play with the PittsburghSymphony.
Sept. 20
Beethoven's Fidelia 
(opera in two acts]
Lonn Maazel, conductor 
All-star cast of vocal 
soloists
Mendelssohn Choir of Pgh. 
Dec. 13
An afternoon of Haydn, 
Brahms S. Ravel, including 
Ravel's Mother Goose 
André Previn, conductor 
Kyung-Wha Chung, violin
Nov.
An afternoon of Webern, 
Grieg & Shostakovich 
Yoel Levi, conductor 
Bella Davidovich, piano
Mar. 14
An afternoon of Chavez, 
Wieniawski and Berlioz 
Eduardo Mata, conductor 
Ingolf Turban, violin
An afternoon of 
Rachmaninov, 
Shostakovich S. Brahms 
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Shira Rabin, violin
Apr. 25 ___
11 ii|M
INI III
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Yefim Bronfman, piano
E
nj Sunday Afternoons
Concerts begin at 2:30. Pre-concert discussions 
begin at 1:30 from Heinz Hall stage.
Complete 6 concert package for only $42.00.
To order, or for 
a free brochure with 
further information,CALL 392-4900.
Seating assignments are made on a "best available” bas s 
Student subscriptions are not renewable.
Tin: Tinn:•Musc FdebcyodrSt Ayuio vaazci. • Music Diuecnyu
I 3SLnitylvb pnnujl
08/9303-097-00 I-UU1 “I]

---------------------------------------------------

DON’T MISS ANY OF THE ACTION AS THE 
PIRATES DRIVE TOWARD ANOTHER 
EASTERN DIVISIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP!
BELIEVE IN THE BUCS !
The Pittsburgh Pirates are going for their third straight division title so don’t miss any 
of the action. 
Show your college I.D. at the Three Rivers Stadium Ticket Office and receive a special 
50% discount for any home game during the month of September. 
$4.00 - for any Outfield Reserved or Terrace Reserved Tickets 
$2.50 - for any General Admission Tickets
SEPTEMBER HOME GAMES:
Tuesday,Sept.1735PM
Wednesday,Sept.2735PM
Thursday,Sept.3735PM
Friday,Sept.4735PM
Saturday,Sept.5705PM
Sunday,Sept.6135PM
Monday,Sept.7135PM
Tuesday,Sept.8735PM
Wednesday,Sept.9735PM
Wednesday,Sept.16735PM
Thursday,Sept.17735PM
Friday,Sept.18735PM
Saturday,Sept.19705PM
Sunday,Sept.20135PM
Monday,Sept.21735PM
Tuesday,Sept.22735PM
Friday,Sept.25735PM
Saturday,Sept.26705PM
Sunday,Sept.27135PM
San Francisco 
San Francisco 
San Francisco
Los Angeles (Fireworks Night)
Los Angeles (Tribute to Clemente) 
Los Angeles
Chicago (Labor Day)
Chicago
Chicago
Montreal
Montreal
Philadelphia (Player Pin Night)
Philadelphia (Mug Night)
Philadelphia
St. Louis
St. Louis
New York
New York
New York (Fan Appreciation Day)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 19925
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Reddy appointed School of GSIA scholarships 
Computer Science dean awarded to students
Raj Reddy, an internationally renowned computer scientist and 
director of Carnegie Mellon University’s Robotics Institute, has been 
named dean of the university’s School of Computer Science (SCS). 
He succeeds A. Nico Habermann, who left the university to take a 
position with the National Science Foundation.
Reddy was the director of the Robotics Institute its inception in 1980.
i Under his leadership, it has achieved worldwide recognition for 
j groundbreaking research in machine vision, autonomous mobile 
i robots, and manufacturing automation.
i Reddy s research interests include the study of human-computer 
i interaction and artificial intelligence.
i His research projects include speech recognition and understand- 
j ing systems, multimedia technologies, collaboration technologies, 
j just-in-time learning techniques, and an automated machine shop, 
j Reddy earned a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from the 
University of Madras, India, in 1958, and a master’s of technology 
degree from the University of New South Wales, Australia, in 1960. 
He received a doctorate degree in computer science from Stanford 
University in 1966.
j From 1960 until 1963, Reddy worked as an applied science repre- 
[ sentative for IBM Corp. in Australia.
1 He began his academic career as an assistant professor at Stanford 
¡in 1966 and joined the Carnegie Mellon faculty äs an associate 
¡professor of computer science in 1969.
\ He became a full professor in 1973 and was named university 
¡professor in 1984.
| He has served as acting dean of the School of Computer Science 
¡ since October 1991.
I; Reddy is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
([Engineers, the Acoustical Society of America, and the American 
¡Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).
I, He was elected a member of the N ational Academy of Engineer s in 
¡1984.
! He is a member of the Computer Science and Telecommunications 
¡Board of the National Academy of Sciences and was chairman of the 
iDARPA Inofrmation Science and Technology Group from 1987 to 
jl990.
|, Reddy served as president of AAAI from 1987 to 1989 and now 
¡serves on the Technology Advisory Board of Microsoft Corp. In 1991, 
'he received the IBM Research Ralph E. Gomory Visiting Scholar 
(Award.
< In 1984, Dr. Reddy was presented the Legion of Honor by Presi­
dent Mitterand of France for his work with Centre Mondial 
jlnformatique et Ressource Humaine, an organization that works to 
¡bring advanced technology to developing countries.
Stlidents attending Carnegie Mellon’s business school, the Gradu­
ate School of Industrial Administration (GSIA), have been the 
recipients of a large number of business scholarships. The scholar­
ships carry cash stipends in varying amounts and recognize out­
standing academic performance in a number of business fields. 
Awards were announced at a reception on August 24.
The following students received scholarships:
David Stubenvoll, a first-year student with the highest quality- 
point average, was named the Henry Ford II Scholar. The scholar­
ship is awarded based on academic performance.
The Citibank Award for Academic Excellence in Finance was 
awarded to Richard Crouse.
Raymond Held received the Francis G. Walker Award for Aca­
demic Excellence in Strategic Planning. The award is sponsored by 
Butler Paper and friends of its namesake, GSIA alumnus Francis G. 
Walker, retired president of Butler Paper.
The John T. Flaherty Scholarship, which recognizes outstanding 
achievement in the fields of production and operations management, 
was awarded to Kurt Lammon.
The GSIA Marketing Club Award for Excellence went to Kimberlee 
Buska. This scholarship was established in 1989 by a group of GSIA 
students who won first prize in the American Marketing Association 
National Case Competition.
New head of Mech E
Johnson named vice 
president for development
Eric C. Johnson, director of corporate relations at tho Massachu­
setts Institute of Technology (MIT) since 1988, has boon named vico 
president for development at Carnegie Mellon Univorsity. Ho will 
join CMU on September 1.
“Eric Johnson’s experience managing development programs of 
international scope and his success in building partnerships be­
tween academia and corporate America have prepared him well to 
lead Carnegie Mellon’s fund raising efforts,” said Carnegie Mellon 
President Robert Mehrabian. Johnson was responsible for the 
Industrial Liason Program at MIT, which includes 240 corporate 
members from the U.S., Japan, and Europe. Johnson also directed 
development efforts that raised $46 million from 11 corporations for 
the Leaders for Manufacturing Program, a joint initiative between 
the engineering school and MIT’s Sloan School of Management.
Prior to his appointment as director of corporate relations, Johnson 
managed fundraising for MIT’s engineering school for five years as 
assistant dean of engineering for resource development. Johnson 
joined MIT in 1972 as assistant director of the Industrial Liason 
program.
Johnson earned a master’s degree in operations research at Case 
Western Reserve University, and a bachelor’s degree in metallurgy 
from MIT in 1967.
KDR wins best newsletter
Department named
Adnan Akay, an expert in acoustics, vibrations, and noise control 
has been appointed head of the Mechanical Engineering Depart­
ment at Carnegie Mellon University. The appointment will take full 
effect on September 1.
Akay, the DeVlieg professor of mechanical engineering at Wayne 
State University, will replace Glenn Sinclair, who after six years as 
department head returned to teaching and research at Carnegie 
Mellon. A fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
and the Acoustical Society of America, Akay is also noted as the 
associate idirector oiApplied Mechanics Review. The author of more 
than forty papers, Akay has given many lectures and presentations 
about his field of expertise.
Under Akay’s direction, the Acoustics, Vibrations, and Noise 
Control Laboratories at Wayne State was able to expand their 
experimental capability. Akay attended North Carolina State Uni­
versity, Where he earned his bachelor’s, master’s, and doctorate 
degrees in mechanical engineering in 1971,1972, and 1976 respec­
tively.
award from national
During the Kappa Delta Rho national Convention this month at 
Lexington, Kentucky, the Tau Chapter at Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity was awarded the Wolfe Award, which is given to tho chapter 
with the best newsletter. The 32 page publication was edited by Ei ik 
Selberg, a senior math/computer scienco major, with help from Chris 
Peghan, a fifth yoar architecture studont and Hamilton Slyo, a 
sophomore eloctrical and computor onginooring major.
Compiled l>y 
KENIJIUCK CIIUA
To be included in CMU In Brief, send a 
press release to Brendan McFeely care 
of The Tartan, Skibo 50, or call x2111
JoinTHE TARTANStaff.\
We have openings for writers, 
photographers, production staff, 
artists, darkroom assistants, 
cartoonists, and business 
personnel. No experience 
necessary. Stop by our office, 
Skibo Room 50, or call x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

(cut and hang on wall)
Gary Delena
The Rock and Roll Comedian
Saturday, November 7 
Skibo Ballroom 
8pm 
Free!
Credits: The Tonight Show starring 
Johnny Carson; Comic Strip Live;
MTV’s Half-Hour Comedy Hour, etc.
1st Annual Emerging 
Artists Exhibition 
Featuring Carnegie Mellon 
& Local Artists
Saturday, November 14 
Wherrett Room 
Noon-10:00pm 
Refreshments will be served!
Free!
Co-sponsored with 
The Alternative Art Space
Nancy Parker
Comedienne
Saturday, November 21 
Skibo Ballroom 
8pm 
Free!
Credits: Caroline's Comedy 
Hour; A&E Evening at the 
Improv, MTV, Comic Strip Live
Tom Acoust!
Singer/Songwriter
Friday, December 4 
Skibo Ballroom 
8pm 
Free!
Back by popular demand!
Tom's last performance at 
CMU was also the site of his 
live concert video recording 
which has propelled his career 
to new heights. He thanks all 
the students who helped make 
it happen.
John Caponera *
Comedian
Friday, September 11 
Skibo Ballroom 
8pm 
Free!
Credits: MTV Half-Hour Comedy 
Hour; Comic Strip Live; A&E's 
Evening at the Improv; Comedy 
Central, etc.
The Amazing Johnathan
Comedian
Friday, September 25
Skibo Ballroom <
9 pm
Tickets: $2 w/CMU ID 
$7 w/o CMU ID 
Available at Skibo Desk 
Credits: Late Night with David 
Letterman; HfiO's 8th Annual 
Young Comedians Special; Showtime; 
Evening at the Improv; MTV; host 
of Saturday morning TV show "Ruckus" 
on NBC, as well as 14 appearances 
on Comic Strip Live.
Opening Act: Richie Byrne
Eric Lambert
Comedian
Friday, October 9 
Skibo Ballroom 
8—9:20pm 
Free!
Credits: Co-creator/co-star of the 
smash parody album "2 Live Jews"; 
Comic Strip Live; A&E's Evening at 
the Improv.
Opening Act: Comedian Oleg Boksner
Matthew Puckett
Singer/Songwriter
Friday, October 9 
Skibo Ballroom 
9:30pm 
Free!
Credits: The Speak Easy; The Turning 
Point; other New York clubs.
Funded by your Student Activites Fee

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992
Newell dies of cancer
NEWELL, from page 1
more than 250 publications, in­
cluding 10 books. His most recent 
book, Unified Theories of Cogni­
tion, is based on his idea that the 
tools are available now to develop 
one theory that will allow scien­
tists to describe many types of 
behavior, instead of creating sepa­
rate theories to cover each as­
pect. A system based on a unified 
theory might support the full 
range of intelligent behaviors.
“His was a singularly simple
life,” said Simon. “He was deeply 
devoted to science. I don’t mean 
to say that he was not devoted to 
his friends and family, but by the 
time he was... 28, he had decided 
to devote his life to understand­
ing the human mind, and he never 
veered from that course.”
A memorial service was held on 
July 27 at the Skibo Ballroom to 
honor Newell. He is survived by 
his wife Noel, of Pittsburgh, and 
a son, Paul, of Manhattan Beach, 
California.
ÜttîHfKfYs.
Ma
“WorWki
MlCalr
CHINESE RESTAURANT
4
'ZJ 
(Newly Added
Dine In, Carry-
Oakland
400 S. Craig St.
(Near Cathedral of Learning)
687-7777Fax: 681-3333
Mon. - Sun.
11 -10 pm 
Carry-out Parking all Hours.
Nearby Free Parking after 
___________5 pm & Weekends._________
8. * 1 
Adventure Menu)
out, and Catering
Downtown
124 Sixth St.
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222Fax: 681-3333
Mon. - Sat.
11 - 8:30 pm
Parking Garage Available 
Above Restaurant.
Before us lies a new day, 
and in the distance a new 
world, ours to create by 
the strength of our faith.
Rodcf Shnlom Congregation invites all students to be our guests nt worship services for the High Holy Dnys.rsi
RODEF SHALOMCONORBQAT10Nl!ll\h «nil Mottwmxl Avenue* PlttlbUtth, IV 19213
Ercv Rosh HashanaSeptember 276:30 pm 
9 pm
Rosh Hashana MorningSeptember 2810 am
Erev Yom KippurOctober 66:30 pm 9 pm
Yom KippurOctober 710 am
(services continue throughout the day)
Please call or stop by for complementary tickets in advance. 
621-6566.
•Jut Cvjfn /i>«nS(Su\int'i 'hyiili
'/in Ci'nmiiiih"! t.ufi JmiiH '/mllji & CfilUnn't Smiii tanJun itMitff.
D7& tmim'siiiÁmi'iO’ w¡b^J»‘l'Ml<'IIW nudimi. CollUJ‘4fW,Joi «/(lili» I
ioo cowKUrtm micttr connumuL
cJû, 93?
It blows everything else 
out of the water.
" - -
With the new IBM® 386SLC processor, 
the new PS/2® 56 and 57 SLC are really 
making waves. They’re faster than any 
386 SX computer you can buy—up to 
88% faster, to be precise? They’re even 
faster than most 386 DX systems.
Both models are completely upgrad­
able, to help protect your investment. 
They’re also completely compatible with
your existing PS/2 hardware and software. 
So in standalone or connected environ­
ments, about the only thing that changes is 
how much faster you can get things done.
The new Personal System/2® Models 
56 and 57 with 386SLC processor. So 
fast, you could say that other computer 
companies have missed the boat.
Stop in today for details.
Introducing SLC in the new 
PS/2 Models 56 and 57
• Great educational prices.
• 4 or 6MB memory, SO or WOMB hard 
drive, up to Jive slots/four bays.
• New 386SLC processor with 8K 
internal cache.
¦ Preloaded with a variety of software, 
including OS/2® 2.0.
Join IBM and Microsoft ...
ecr­s,ANw fdulg n J­ap 1i9t up
At the CMU Computer Store (268-2636)
• come see our new SLC PS/2's which are upgradeable to a 486
•NSTL test concluded against me PS/2 Model 57 SX wihout IBM 386SLC processor <* IBM. PS/2. Personal System/2 and OS/2 
are registered trademarks ol international Business Machines Corporation Tins oiler is available lo nonprofit higher education 
' ®ul'°.n.!' ' 51' s,uden,s 'aculiy and stall as well as to nonprofit K I2 institutions, their faculty and stall IBM Personal System 
SS K ^ca^emic !° ul,0,,s a,e available through participating campus outlets. IBM Author./ed PC Dealers certified lo remarket
Cowa,,in W3,6 '° a,a"aOI", M '8M me 0,,e'al "™
NEW COURSES 
FOR FRESHMEN
Introduction to Cultural Analysis & 
Asian-American Cultures 
99-5051507 (9 units)
Atwo mini sequence ~ Intro to Cultural Analysis introduces students to the concept of culture and the different ways in which “culture” can be understood and studied. Readings will be anthropological in nature.
Asian-American Culture will focus on problem areas in the American “melting-pot” drawing on examples from Asian-American groups.
YOU CAN ADD THIS COURSE 
until September 8.
Go to the Associate Provost’s Office at 
207 SMITH HALL extension 6995.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Abide by Housing rules for dormitory security
Housing has finally began to 
strictly enforce the policy of show­
ing a CMU ID when entering a 
dorm. This policy has always 
been Officially in place, but only 
this semester has a significant 
effort been made to ensure that 
dll desk attendants (DAs) check 
IDs. However, it’s a shame that 
it took a few assaults in the dorms 
last year to bring about this 
change.
' The DAs are required to check 
all IDs, even if someone opens 
the door with a key. While this 
policy can be inconvenient, it 
ensures that a random person 
cannot enter a dorm. Security is 
an important issue so don’t give 
the DAs a hard time. Remember, 
while it might seem annoying to 
you, it’s their job, and it’s for 
your protection.
Although the policy hai only 
been enforced recently, there has 
already been slacking off. Some 
DAs are not checking IDs if they 
are reading or talking on the 
phone. Also many of the DAs just 
glance at the IDs from several 
feet away. They cannot see the 
photos, not to mention the vali­
dation stickers. There is no pos­
sible way for the DA to tell from 
that distance if the person hold­
ing the ID is the same one in the 
photo or if that person is cur­
rently enrolled.
Checking IDs at residence hall 
entrances is vital to dorm secu­
rity. The whole purpose of check­
ing IDs is defeated, however, if 
fire doors in the buildings are 
left propped open all night, as 
has happened this year in some 
dorms. Campus Police, in gen­
eral, does a good job of patrolling 
the dorms, but the officers need
to double check all the outside 
doors to every dorm to make sure 
they are closed and locked se­
curely. The RAs should also be 
checking these outside doors as 
they make their rounds through­
out the night.
Another big problem is trail­
ers, people who follow others into 
a dorm before the door closes, 
without using a key or showing 
ID. When IDs are checked, part 
of this problem is eliminated. 
However, residents are allowed 
to bringin guests, and sometimes 
students help others get in by 
naming them as guests, even if 
they’ve never met. This may seem 
like a good deed for a stranger 
whose key or ID is buried in a 
backpack, but it can be very dan­
gerous. Don’t say someone is with 
you if they’re not, just to make it 
easier for them to get around the 
security measures.
The Hill dorms pose another 
security hazard. Many of them 
don’t have working telephones or 
card readers, so the only way for 
a visitor to enter the dorm is to be 
a trailer.
Since most Hill dorms don’t 
have DAs, it is the responsibility 
of the residents not to let people 
they don’t know trail them into 
the dorm. It is the responsibility 
of Housing to make sure there 
are ways to get into the Hill dorms 
besides trailing, like installing 
working card readers and tele­
phones on all the buildings.
Cooperate with the DAs as they 
enforce the ID policy. And if you 
see DAs slacking off, report them 
to their desk managers. Dorm 
security is the responsibility of 
every resident, and we all need to 
take that responsibility seriously.Changes offer chance for improvement
The resignation of Anthony 
Martin from his position as di­
rector of Housing has opened an 
opportunity for change in Hous­
ing Office procedures and orga­
nization. Those directing an op­
eration such as Housing must 
dig beneath the shiny veneer to 
clean up the non-productive ac­
tivities and reinforce successful 
efforts. Executives must also be 
able to interact with heads of 
other organizations which share 
similar goals. Those replacing 
the director of Housing must be 
in touch with those people Hous­
ing affects most, the students of 
CMU.
In the past, the director of 
Housing has been perceived as 
inaccessible. Perhaps the top 
three of Housing could hold of­
fice hours open to all students in 
an attempt to alter this negative 
opinion. This time could be spent 
listening to students talk about 
their first-hand experiences with 
Housing’s good and bad policies. 
In this way, students feel less 
like they are getting the run­
around, and the special atten­
tion from the administrators 
ensures that the students’ ad­
vice is heeded.
In order for them to accom­
plish these tasks, the three ad­
ministrators must be aware of 
how Housingis organized. There 
is no possibility that the three of 
them can micromanage every 
activity, but there is no excuse 
for ignorance of what the staffs 
are doing. If they know the set­
up, they can go even further into 
analyzing the efficiency and ef­
fectiveness of the staff. In this 
way, problems will be identified 
and resolved before they escalate 
into catastrophes.
We would like to see the three 
assistant directors living on cam­
pus, but they can’t hide out in 
their apartments. They should 
participate in events Housing 
sponsors and should occasionally 
attend organizational meetings 
of student staffs, such as group 
meetings of resident assistants 
and desk attendants and 
managers.All these efforts on the 
part of the new administrators 
would serve to point out the nega­
tive and positive aspects in Hous­
ing early to someone who can 
bring about improvements.
The new administrators must 
cultivate working relationships 
with the heads of these groups in 
order to be productive. In par­
ticular, they must communicate 
with Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy and the presi­
dent of SDC, Scott Curtain, to 
help bring a greater sense of com­
munity to the campus.
The assistant directors of Hous­
ing will be responsible to the stu­
dents. They must be visible to 
and accessible by the students. 
They must listen and react to 
students’ wishes. Only by not hid­
ing behind their titles can the 
new assistant directors of Hous­
ing make headway toward im­
proving the services of the Hous­
ing Office.
President needs initiative
Christian M. Restifo
Let’s you and I conduct an exercise. 
Don’t worry. You won’t be graded or 
anything like that. This is more of an 
association game.
Go to the nearest dictionary and look 
up the word “initiative.” According to 
Webster’s II New Riverside Dictionary, 
initiative is “the ability to originate or 
follow through with a plan of action or 
task.” Another definition reads, “the act 
or role of taking the first or leading 
step.”
Now, think of all the synonyms of 
initiative. Got ’em? Here’s an easier one: 
think of a person or persons who best 
exemplifies this word. I doubt George 
Bush and the Republicans popped into 
anybody’s head.
The fact of the matter is that Bush has 
shown no initiative or leadership what­
soever since the Persian Gulf War. As 
many political analysts have noted, Bush 
could have probably gotten Congress to 
do just about anything after the war. 
With political savvy and grace, he could 
have said many things to this country. 
“America,” he had the chance to say, “we 
have secured stability in the Middle 
East. Now is the chance for all the people 
in that region to work towards peace and 
understanding.”
That’s not all he could have said, how­
ever. “Let us now turn our attention 
inward,” he may have continued. “Let us 
concern ourselves with education, health 
care, the environment, and the host of 
problems that challenge us more than 
any Gulf War could. Let us wage a 
Desert Storm at home.”
But instead, nothing. Zilch. All we got 
was nineteen months of lame Presidency. 
As many of you know things are actu­
ally worse. George Bush has shown us 
that his trademark of “prudence” is 
nothing more than a fancy word for 
incompetence and ignorance of the is­
sues.
When the Democrats were still fight­
ing among themselves and attempting 
to present a picture of party unity and 
political moderation, Bush just hung 
back. With his eyes on the horizon, gaz­
ing at his New World Order, he failed to 
see that the country around him was in 
dire need of repair. By painting over the 
rust and polishing what small brass 
there was, Bush and the Republicans 
made it seem, at least to themselves,
that everything was just “swell and 
dandy.”
In short, Bush fooled himself into 
thinking that he didn’t have to take 
action on anything. People obviously 
didn’t want to talk that much about 
education, health care, and the 
economy. Then, all of a sudden, Bill 
Clinton and the Democrats struck a 
chord. They began talking about edu­
cation, health care, and the economy. 
The Republicans were dumbfounded 
that voters would actually value such 
things more than foreign policy or “fam­
ily values.”
Failing to break any new ground on 
the issues, the Republicans began the 
subtle, yet vicious attack on Clinton’s 
character. After all, if you can’t make
respond to the changing needs of the j, 
United States and its people. Bush con­
solidated power into the hands of Baker 
in order to do one thing: win.
Baker brings with him a strange 
transformation. Having suddenly be- y 
come the experts on change and claim­
ing they are the ones to trust, Bush and 
the Republicans have finally taken no- 
tice of things the Democrats have been 
talking about all along. Bush now says 
he’s going to help workers get job train- 5 
ing, but he won’t raise taxes and “de- 0 
stroy” jobs like Clinton. What Bush'-* 
isn’t telling you, of course, is that he’s 7 
going to cut other domestic programs - 
such as Medicaid and Medicare to pay u 
for it. It’s nice to know that Bush is ^ 
willing to cut off the hand of a starving
By painting over the rust and polishing what { 
small brass there was, Bush and the 
Republicans made it seem ... that everything 
was just “swell and dandy. ”
yourself look good, you might as well 
make the other person look bad.
Of course, Clinton dumbfounded the 
attack dogs. For every attack, he re­
turned a quick and decisive volley,forcing 
the Republicans to either back down, 
gloss over what was said, or justify Bush’s 
position on the issue at hand. The Re­
publicans could not, and cannot, handle 
the new found popularity of the Demo­
crats.
When these things happened, Bush 
could have returned fire by coming out 
with his own plans and ideas. Instead, 
he has now shown his total lack of vision 
and his lack of touch with reality. When 
Clinton talks about taking care of 
America, Bush talks about “giving a 
good fight.” When Clinton advocates the 
limited use of force in Bosnia-Herze- 
govina to ensure humanitarian aid, the 
Bush team calls it reckless while advo­
cating the same idea later. And when 
Clinton takes the initiative, Bush waits 
until people really start complaining 
and his ratings drop. Then he lets some­
one else do all the work for him.
A prime example of this behavior was 
Bush’s decision to place control of just 
about everything in the hands of Jim 
Baker. At a time when the peace talks in 
the Middle East seem poised to make 
some progress, Baker left the State De­
partment to save Bush’s political poste­
rior. This move was not designed to 
bring new life or ideas into the Republi­
can campaign, nor was it done in order to
person in order to feed him or her. r!
All criticism aside, you have to admit0 
that Bush and the Republicans did take'1! 
the initiative on one point. Having been" 
selected as the honored protectors of7 
“family values,” they’re telling us that^( 
they’re hard at work preventing the “ho-T 
mosexuals, radical feminists, and cul­
tural elite” from polluting our minds *' 
with their propaganda. After all, de-'1' 
manding the right to be chosen for a job-1 
based on your qualifications (and not on-' 
whether you like men or women) is 
receiving special treatment.
Unfortunately, even most Republicans^, 
don’t want to talk about “family values.”^ 
They want to know how single parents^; 
can earn money to feed and clothe their»r 
children.
I don’t know about you, my friend, but-* 
it’s hard for me to trust Bush right now.if 
He did a great job during the Gulf War,, • 
but that was about it. Instead of truly, 
having a vision and taking the initia-iJ 
tive, he waits until polls are down. He , 
waits until someone else takes the risk' 
of making a bold new move and gets a; , 
good response. And he waits until some-lJ 
one comes to his aid.
It is said that to be a good leader, you1.1 
first have to learn how to be a good ( 
follower. Bush has shown us that he’-, 
can’t even do that much.•7
Christian M. Restifo is a senior chemi-p'. 
cal engineering major who will neithera. 
shut up nor sit down.
Government encourages bribery as policy«
David Hunt
All animals are equal, but some are 
more equal than others.
This one phrase from George Orwell’s 
Animal Farm was aimed in particular at 
the Soviet Union. The novel’s publish­
ing was delayed due to World War II, as 
Orwell’s biting critique of the commu­
nist system could have upset the sensi­
bilities of our ally. Despite Orwell’s tar­
get of the now defunct Soviet state, the 
phrase holds as much truth today as it 
did then. The target, however, is differ­
ent.
In the past couple of centuries, people 
have flocked to the United States seek­
ing asylum from tyranny and exploita­
tion. America was seen as the glowing 
land of opportunity, where fortunes 
waited to be made and everyone knew 
that they were all equals in the sight of 
the law and each other. A land where 
one person’s actions could really make a 
difference if they would only try — a 
land where all were equal.
And we still do live in such a land,
except that the dream has been badly-' 
tarnished. Less than fifty percent of those J 
eligible to vote do so. It seems as if a-i 
sense of futility has fallen on the voting^ 
population, and with good cause. 5 
The Democratic Party is perceived as 
the “tax and spend” party. The Republi-j 
cans, on the other hand, are increase 
ingly seen as the party of the elite, rich;^ 
and powerful. Neither of these generali-j 
zations are completely true, yet Rossg 
Perot’s glowingpopularity brought home ¡f 
the discontent of the American people, a,? 
people discontent with the rampant brib-,£ 
ery and corruption oozing throughout 
Please see MONEY, page 9..

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 19929
Every new studentat CMU 
goes through orientation. To 
refresh the memories of those 
people who don’t remember 
their own, orientation is a 
week long program designed 
to acclimate incoming fresh­
man to the campus, the col­
lege environment, and to each 
other. How was your fresh­
men orientation experi­
ence?
Steve Chai 
Computer Science
“I signed up for about 30 clubs. 
I had a mistake in my schedule 
and the counselors helped me 
change it. The mentalist guy 
was quite fascinating — I liked 
the talent show, too. Basically, 
everything has been okay.”
Brian DiRusso 
Architecture
“I spent most of the time in my 
room sleeping. Playfair was a 
.lot of fun. The talent show was 
nice—you got a chance to see all 
the freshmen doing something.”
AnneMarie Flanagan 
Biology
“Interesting. I had a good time 
and enjoyed the talent show a 
lot — I liked how you were able 
to meet everyone. It was a way 
to bring the class together in a 
' unique way. I’ll remember it for 
a long time.”
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Kanitha Burns 
H&SS
“Kind of fun, but it’s basically 
nothing — there weren’t very 
many organized things. Most 
people just hung around and 
went to frat parties, and that 
gets boring after awhile. The 
week is good because it lets 
people get to know each other.”
Vampires run bookstore and publishing houses
Abby Schiff
Bloodsuckers. They’re everywhere on 
campus, masquerading as “Retail Services,” 
charging outrageous prices for everything 
from laundry detergent to diet soda. No­
where are they more apparent, however, 
than in the bookstore, a place where stu­
dents spend thousands of dollars a year for 
books that they usually don’t read.
While most of us are all too familiar with 
the mammoth prices that campus stores 
charge, perhaps it would be prudent to give 
freshmen and other Carnegie Mellon new­
comers fair warning, particularly about 
the bookstore and its tendency to empty 
students’ pockets of any money inadvert­
ently left there after paying for tuition, 
dining, and housing.
To the first-time customer, the brightly- 
lit shop in Baker Hall’s basement seems 
pleasant enough. Yet any seasoned CMU 
oldtimer knows that the bookstore is really 
just a worthwhile alternative for people 
who have grown bored of flushing their 
money down the toilet. Sixty or seventy 
dollars for a textbook is a perfectly fair 
price, the bookstore assures us. The knowl­
edge contained within these pages is price­
less! So priceless, in fact, that they’ll actu­
ally pay you real money for the books at the 
end of the semester! Make all checks pay­
able to CMU! Yes, we accept Visa!
I have no choice but to suspect that the 
folks over at the bookstore must have taken 
a clue from whoever bought Manhattan 
from the Indians for 24 bucks. The whole 
operation is one huge ripoff, and the stu­
dents (surprise!) are the ones who end up
on the losing side when it comes time to 
sell their books back. The book buyers, it 
seems, pay students only a tiny fraction of 
the original price paid (meaning that all 
those “used” books fetch the store a tidy 
profit), and often refuse to buy back books 
at all.
Take, for example, your $43 set of six 
Introduction to Philosophy volumes. They 
never made you contemplate anything 
except why you were wasting your time at 
college when you could be making a for­
tune marketing them as a cure for insom­
nia. They are now worth a piddling five 
dollars. Your math class isn’t being taught 
at all next semester, rendering the $37 
book that went with it worthless. And the 
$65 Economics textbook you opened ex­
actly once, in an unsuccessful eleventh- 
hour attempt to understand the Keynesian 
Transmission Mechanism, is obsolete as 
there’s a spanking-new edition coming 
out next month.
By now it is painfully clear that your 
books (the same books that were priceless 
jewels of knowledge when you paid for 
them, remember?) are now about as valu­
able as radioactive pig snot as far as the 
folks at the bookstore are concerned. But 
lest you erupt in a fit of rage just thinking 
about the injustice of it all (not to mention 
that dream vacation to Bora Bora that 
costs about the same as three semesters’ 
crummy books, for crying out loud) I must, 
in good conscience, point out that this 
. racket is not entirely CMUs doing. Book 
publishers, after all, wouldn’t dare pass 
up such an excellent opportunity to rip 
students off.
Publishers see the consumer equiva­
lent of a captive audience in students who 
take courses for which books are required. 
They take advantage of us, which is really 
what America is all about, so pay atten­
tion. All a publisher has to do is get their 
hands on any vaguely academic-sounding 
book — say, An Analysis of Agricultural 
Technology’s Impact on the Ancient Teu­
tonic Tribes — and print up a few zillion 
copies. Someone, somewhere, will assign 
this book to his or her students, and the 
money simply rolls on in. No need for 
quality-control, no need to charge a com­
petitive price—these companies, God love
Dan Quayle’s Comprehensive Guide to 
Single Mothers, Liberals, and Other Val­
ueless Americans Who Made Us Cause 
the Recession. Yet when anew Euclidean 
Geometry replaces last year’s version, I 
have to suspect that there’s a picture of a 
typical college student hanging up in a 
publisher’s office somewhere with the 
word “SUCKER” inscribed beneath it.
The end result, of course, is that evory-
... I have to suspect that there’s a picture of a 
typical college student hanging up in a 
publisher’s office somewhere with the word 
“SUCKER” inscribed beneath it.
’em, have acquired the same coveted status 
as defense contractors who charge the gov­
ernment $400,000dollars for a coffeemaker!
As you can well imagine, the 
moneymaking possibilities here are limit­
less, which means good business for the 
book’s publishers. Suppose, however, one 
day the students decide to rain on the 
publisher’s parade of profits. They begin 
to (gasp!) buy and sell their used Teutonic 
Tribes from one another, and (horrors!) 
actually spend less money! The only re­
course for a company in the event of such 
a catastrophe is to come out with a new 
and improved edition of the book. Perhaps 
some new, vital information about Teu­
tonic tribal agriculture has been uncov­
ered since the last edition, but more likely 
the pictures can stand a little switching 
around, the chapter headings need chang­
ing, or a bar graph’s color scheme is all 
wrong.
Now, I can understand the need for an 
updated edition of Inside Yugoslavia or
body gets rich — except us. It’s enough to 
make you want to buy one of those ridicu­
lous “packets” that various departments 
sell at what I’m sure is a modest profit at 
the beginning of each semester. Lucidly, 
there is no need to take such drastic 
measures. Next time you bring back your 
books for resale, the buyer will, in all 
probability, look at them as though they 
were teeming with maggots and pay you 
accordingly while coolly informing you 
that your 1,992 edition of Macbeth is hope­
lessly outdated. Remain calm.
College may teach us few truly valu­
able lessons, but this is undoubtedly one 
of them: even in a recession, you can 
amass a fortune in the college textbook 
publishing business. Good luck, and 
happy reading.
Abby Schiffis a sophomore H&SS stu­
dent who was forced to file for Chapter 11 
bankruptcy after buying her books for the 
fall semester.Money proves only way to get laws enacted
Continued from MONEY, page 8
the halls of our government.
Extra contributions are wel­
come at the fundraising dinners 
of the political parties. At one of 
the Republican fundraisers, an 
extra contribution of some few 
thousand dollars resulted in a 
Congressman sitting at your 
table. A larger amount netted 
you an administration official. 
While theory says that this is 
solely a fundraising event, if you 
have a small problem and want 
to get governmental help, what’s 
the harm if you mention it?
The harm is that this is blatant 
purchasing of favors, otherwise 
known as bribery. The same term 
should cover direct campaign con- 
tributions. Special interest 
groups, spanning the spectrum 
from the insurance industry to 
proponents of foreign powers, use 
legitimized bribery to gain access 
to our government. Pennsylva­
nia Senator Specter has received 
almost $240,000 from one cause 
alone during his career. The 
amounts of money being paid are 
phenomenal. One cannot accept 
such sums without being obli­
gated to the givers.
During the brewing of the S&L 
crisis, the Congressmen respon-
sible for deregulating that indus­
try received large contributions 
from the banking and real estate 
industries. While the trouble 
began, they adopted a “conspiracy 
of silence” and did nothing but 
accept more money. On a recent 
Bill Moyer‘s Journal, the leader 
of a citizen’s watch group said 
that there were so many people 
switching from the regulatory
board to the leaders of the indus­
try, and back again, that it was 
impossible to distinguish the 
regulators from the regulated.
And when Charles Keating, the 
arch-villain of the S&L scandal, 
was asked if he thought his con­
tributions helped buy favors, his 
reply was “I most certainly hope 
so!” Thanks to him and those he 
bribed, each citizen of this coun­
try owes more than $3000 to cover 
the bailout.
What about the “Top 100,” a 
group of 249 persons who each
contributed over $100,000 to 
Bush’s 1988 campaign? By law, 
campaign contributions from an 
individual cannot exceed $1000, 
yet if one gives to the party in 
general then any amount is per­
missible. Clearly there are loop­
holes, and influence can be 
bought.
Federal funding of elections 
grants each candidate $50 mil-
lion, but these “Top 100” contri­
butions increased Bush’s war 
chest by 50 percent! Sixty of the 
candidates are real estate devel­
opers, and one has to wonder at 
the Bush stance on helping the 
real estate industry with tax 
breaks and loss coverage. Is it 
possible that Bush is favoring 
them because of the bribes, ex­
cuse me, campaign contributions 
they paid him?
We live in a country where ac­
cess to officials is sold to the high­
est bidder. For all our high-sound-
ing claims of being a democracy, 
our government exists to service 
the rich and powerful in society. 
Granted, there are programs for 
the poor but many of these are 
little more than survival-level 
funding. Education in this coun­
try is abysmal for the poor and 
welfare currently prevents any 
moves towards self-improvement. 
The gap between the haves and 
have nots is widening. Corporate 
raiders make millions while de- 
stroyingjob-producing industries 
and leaving thousands unem­
ployed.
Houses, once a mainstay of the 
American dream, are becoming 
more of a luxury for the well-to- 
do. A mere 10 percent of the popu­
lation controls 90 percent of the
wealth in this country, and with 
that money the rich purchase leg­
islation to keep themselves on 
top. Our aristocracy comes not 
from blood, as in previous oligar­
chies, but rather from the amount 
of money they make by paying to 
make the rules favor them.
At the end of the Constitutional 
Convention, Benjamin Franklin 
was asked by a passerby what 
form of government had been de­
cided upon. “A republic, if you 
can keep it,” was Franklin’s re­
ply. It was a warning, which we 
would do well to heed today.
David Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering graduate student who 
thinks that Entropy isn’t what it 
used to be.
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mollon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Edltor-ln-Chlef.............Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor........M.K. Rodgors
Business Mgr.........Timothy S. Bloss
News Editor.........Brendan MeFooly
Forum Editor.............Aaron Jonklns
Acting Sports Editor............Alim Ray
Features Editor...........Mogan Dlotz
Diversions Editor.........Marnl BoreK
Calendar Editor.......Tara M. Seman
Magazine Editor.....Stephen Glicker
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Art Editor.........................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor...............Josh Freeman
Production Mgr.............Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr......Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager.........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDanlel
Asst. Business Mgr.Sharyn Rotunno 
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua 
Asst. Forum Editor ....Richard Quinn 
Ruth Rasmussen 
Asst. Sports Editor ....Robby Findler
Asst. Features Editor....Laura PaJanker
Asst. Diversions Editor.......Orya Dasna
Asst. Art Editors.......Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Asst. Production Mgrs.....Katie Swango
r Derek Wahlla
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstader, 
Nathan Fullerton, D.A. Henderson, 
Ellon Hondrlckson, Mark Hllllor, 
Doxtor Koboyashl, Alim Ray
Sonlor Staff 
Dovo Martin, Christian Rostlfo, Rich 
Robinson, Mlko Shapiro
Stuffwrltors 
Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslsta, Trlnotto 
Chandler, Bob Dixon, Dan Gallagher, 
Erin Grunzko, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
KochanskylJ, Chris Maplos, Corrl 
Motz, Truptl Patol, Abby Schlff, Kelly 
Sterling, Wondy Tuggle, Tricla Wil­
liams, Jason Wyso, Leslie Zubaty
Art
Joff Dorsoy, RamseyHong, RoyHuang
Comics
Michael Board, Matt Goldborg, Elliott 
Schlff, Jon Thorson
Photo
Dobbie Bauer, Kovln Chon, Diane 
Keen, Seth Redmoro
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo, Jessica Miller, Erik 
Ogan
Production 
Albert Hong, John Jantps
Copy
Erin Bailey, Molly Dalklewicz, Lenna 
Kydes, Patricia Williams
Junior Staff 
Roshnl Bhakta, Tony deFlgio, Nathan 
Dohm, And! Franclonl, Madhav 
Ghanta, Michael Gibson, Otis Greene, 
Reid Hacker, Cheryl Harris, Lauren 
Heinz, Mike Hofsass, Arun 
Jayakuman, Yerln Kay, Meron 
Langsner, Sung Lee, Anne Lopez, 
Laura McClure, Amy McGovern, Dizzy 
Murphy, Paul Platosh, DrewShefman, 
Ben Shelton, Andrew Sproule, Jon 
Stevenson, Eric Strauss, Jason 
Togyer, lllr Toska, Andy Vaughan, 
Usa Vitalbo
Tho Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It Is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It Is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the se­
mester or academic year. The editorials ap­
pearing at the beginning of the opinion sec­
tion are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political car­
toons are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, mem­
bers of the University community. A letter 
Intended for publication must be signed and 
Include the writer’s address and phone num­
ber for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. Tho Tartan requests that let­
ters be no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
reserves tho right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1992 by Tho Tartan. Tho 
Tartan editorial board reserves tho right to 
withhold from publication any copy It deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
17 percent funded by your Student 
Activities Fee 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN it: 0890-3107.
The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and 
political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University com­
munity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and in­
clude the writer’s address and phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
...when Charles Keating... was asked 
if he thought his contributions helped 
him buy favors, his reply was “I most 
certainly hope so!”__________________

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT's Anatomy of the Ear
semicircular canalsauditory nerve
Monday, August 31
6 pm-9 pm: International 
9 pm-12 am: Experimental
Tuesday, September 1 
6 pm-9 pm: Jazz 
9 pm-12 am: Indie Rock
Wednesday, September 2 
6 pm-9 pm: Rap 
9 pm-12 am: E3lues
Thursday, September 3 
6 pm-9 pm: Reggae 
9 pm-12 am: Punk Rock
4Friday, September .
6 pm-9 pm: Metal 
9 pm-12 am: Pance
WRCT <3<3.3 fm is CMU’s student operated radio station; we 
play a wide selection of alternative music. As an introduction, 
we present “The Anatomy of the Ear,” an excursion into 
various genres of music featured on the station. Starting 
Monday, August 31st and continuing through Friday, 
September 4th, WRCT will bring you in-depth segments of 
some of our specialties. We hope you enjoy our unique variety 
and will tune in during our regular scheduling throughout the 
year.
The Macintosh 
Student Aid Päckaos:
Apple Macintosh PowerBook ' 145 4/40Apple Macintosh Classic' IIApple Macintosh LCII
___1
Apple Macintosh lisi
Get over ‘400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the 
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. 
And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for 
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student
For more information visit theCarnegie Mellon Computer Storeor call 268-2636
aid like this is only available through October 15,1992 - and only 
at your authorized Apple campus reseller.
© 1992 Apple Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, ami Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. AlenNw is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc. I’owerlJook is a trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. The Random House Knc\ilo|>edia is a trademark ot Random House. Iiu Amencan Heritage Electronic Dictionary. Electronic Thesaurus, and 
ConvcTcxt* developed hy Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology devvlo|>ed by language Systems. Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of IHmvr t'p Software Corporation. Resume'Xriier is a trademark «if llootvvare Software Company. Inc All product names are the trademark 
of their res|>evlive holders. Offer good on the Macintosh Powerlkxik hi -Ml) configuration only. .Ml qualifying computers come preloaded with software ami electronic versions of instructions Disks anil printed manuals are not included in this offer.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
smJ Football strides to success
PRESS PASS By DAVE martinu r, : o, Tartan Senior Staffwriterby Paul Platosh
Preseason
pulverizes
summer’s
lethargy
The other day, being fashion­
ably late for my first class, I 
jumped out of bed, crammed a 
doughnut into my mouth, and 
checked the newspaper. Open­
ing to the sports page, I found 
out how my team fared in the 
previous day’s preseason 
football game.
Yes, folks, it’s the magical 
: time in late summer when the 
. wonders of the bone-jarring 
game itself are brought into the 
comfort of your home.
But preseason football means 
more than that. It’s a mile­
stone. After a whole summer of 
warm evenings, listening to the 
junebugs, sipping mint juleps, 
and watching baseball, pre­
season football puts you in your 
place. You get snapped out of 
your summer sloth by the 
referee’s whistle and the crack 
of the plastic helmet.
I got the same feeling walking 
past Gesling Stadium the other 
day. The weather is getting 
colder, and the trees have that 
worn and tired look. That 
means one thing — preseason 
is coming to an end and the 
regular season is about to 
begin. And it’s hard for me to 
suppress that pang of excite­
ment when I think about the 
;past years, the hours that I 
spent in front of the tube, the 
popcorn and beer, and that shi­
ning example of mass scale 
madness ¦— Superbowl.
The football team was on the 
scene, practicing for the 
season. I joined a group of 
people standing by the fence, 
and took in the field for a bit. 
The players were running 
drills, and again, I was re­
minded of the complexities of 
the game.
Football is war — every 
player does a different job. You 
can literally sit down on the 
bench and assign a different 
military position to anyone. 
Even the fans themselves are 
part of the battle. I thought 
back to last year, sitting on the 
cold benches with my notepad, 
showing some school spirit. I 
can’t help but wonder if this 
season more fans will show up 
to our school’s games.
I can remember thinking that 
even at the homecoming game 
last year, there were more 
parents and alumni in the 
stands than there were stu­
dents. And I’ve heard all kinds 
of excuses, none of which ever 
made any sense to me.
The game itself is what I go 
to see. The whole aura of the 
stadium when you go to watch 
the game is just as much a part 
of my fall season as the colors of 
the foliage. You sit down with a 
hot dog and a bunch of friends 
and see your classmates 
struggle on the friendly fields of 
strife, all the while freezing 
your backside off. Now, how can 
you pass that up?
So next time the Tartans play 
in Gesling stadium, grab a 
blanket, a bunch of friends, 
your CMU banners that are 
gathering dust, and show our 
team the support that they 
rightly deserve. Even if you're 
not a football fan, you'll grow to 
like it. After all, there’s noth­
ing else quite like it.
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
Paul Platosh is a sophomore 
professional and creative 
writing major.
When the Carnegie Mellon 
University football squad takes 
the field this Saturday, the play­
ers will be carrying agoodheadof 
steam and a lot of weight on their 
shoulders. Having won nine 
games in a row to end last season 
and having number of experi­
enced play ers returning, the Tar­
tans are going into the season 
with high expectations from na­
tional reviews, their coaching 
staff, and themselves.
During the preseason, a num­
ber of football magazines pre­
dicted that the Tartans will do 
well, and ranked them among 
the highest in the National Col­
lege Athletic Association’s Divi­
sion III. The Football Gazette, 
The Sporting News, aniFootball 
Digest all ranked CMU in the 
preseason top ten: fifth, sixth, 
and seventh, respectively. The 
NCAA Preview and College Foot­
ball Preview ranked CMU 17th 
and 13th respectively, while 
Street and Smith’s College Foot­
ball noted the Tartans as one of 
the best teams in the nation.
But head coach Rich Lackner 
understands that preseason hype 
is simply that, hype. “Our expec­
tations are high,” he said. “We’re 
hoping to gel into a good team.”
Lackner, in his seventh year as 
CMU’s head coach, leads the Tar­
tans into a nine game schedule 
thisyear, which boasts the tough­
est of the University Athletic 
Association’s competition as well 
as strong teams from outside the 
conference.
The 1992 Tartans have a lot of 
experience returning from last 
year’s 9-1 team. “I think they’re 
mature and can keep from look­
ing ahead,” Coach Lackner said. 
With the high hopes and rankings 
that the team is taking into the 
season’s start, it will be the veter­
ans who will be counted on to 
show that mature, one-game-at- 
a-time attitude.
On offense, the skill positions 
were the most depleted by gradu­
ation, as the Tartans are left with 
no veteran running backs. Sopho­
more Jason Grusky and junior 
Ed Ruland are tentative starters 
at the halfback positions, but both 
will probably share time with 
sophomores Jim Filicko and Nick 
Bush. Senior and preseason UAA 
All-American Griffin Pero is ex­
pected to start at fullback to wind 
up the Tartan backfield.
Joah Froomnn/Tnrtnn Photo Editor
Senior defensive back Andy Helms takes out Junior reclever Andy Van Sprang as sophomore Mark Donny looks on.
At the wide receiver positions, 
the Tartans have juniors Jarrod 
Siket and Andy Van Sprang re­
turning. “Both are really good 
split ends,”
Lackner said. --------------------
“Jarrod [Siket] 
has good speed 
and catches well.
Andy [Van
Sprang] reads 
coverage really 
well and is a reli­
able receiver.”
Junior tight end 
Scott Peters will 
be returning for 
the Tartans, with 
senior Josh 
Hvizdos return­
ing after a year off to share time 
at the position. At the quarter­
back position, sophomore Chris 
Dee will return. “Chris Dee had a 
good camp and did a fine job for 
us last year,” Lackner said ofDee’s 
performance for CMU.
The protection for Dee and the 
running backs rests on the shoul­
ders of a celebrated veteran front 
line. Three of the offensive line­
men are starting their third 
straight year. Senior left guard 
and offensive captain Rich Wil­
son leads fellow seniors Chuck 
Jackson and Mandez Redman
Mellon.
Wilson and Jackson were voted 
into numerous preseason all- 
American teams, and make for a
“I’d like to see a big crowd for this 
game.... It’s time this football squad 
got some student support. And if we 
do well, we’ll be helping the campus 
and student morale. ”
________— head coach Rich Lackner
formidable left side of the line. 
Junior Chad Vargo will be play­
ing the center slot for CMU while 
sophomore Kevin Keir will start 
for CMU for the first time at right 
tackle.
Defensively for the Tartans, 
nine of last year’s starting eleven 
will return. Coming off a spec­
tacular performance last year, as 
he intercepted a school record' 
seven passes, senior free safety 
Andy Helms leads the secondary 
into the 1992 season. He will be 
joined by fellow senior strong
iors Jerry Fuller and Jeff Gregor 
will fill tho cornor slots, creating 
turnovers and making numerous 
tackles.
Tho lino- 
backor posi­
tions aro 
swarming 
with talent. 
Senior pre­
season all- 
American out- 
side line­
backer and 
four-year 
starter Matt 
Pielert leads 
the defense 
against oppos- 
ing offenses.
Senior Bill Yurkovich comple­
ments Pielert well at the other 
outside linebacking position while 
another all-American pick, jun­
ior Chad Wilson, takes up the 
inside position.
Junior Jeff Blue and senior Jim 
Cooke are both expected to re­
ceive some playing time at the 
inside linebacker spot.
The story of the defense, 
though, is the defensive line. “We 
have a very interesting defensive 
line,” Lackner said. “Any of six or 
seven guys could end up start-
safety John Fratto. Coming off ing.” Expect to see seniors Mike 
intotheirfinalseasonatCamegie good showings last season jun- Barr and Jason Lange plug up
tho holos along with juniors Bon 
Burton, Jon Hutchison, and 
Shane Billings. Sophomore Merio 
Atkinson will also hoo good play­
ing timo, should lie not start.
On special teams, senior Fred 
Harding will return to boot tho 
ball to the opponont after scoring 
extra points or field goals and 
junior John Knutson will bo punt­
ing for the Tartans.
The Tartans’ schedule consists 
of nine games this year, includ­
ing two open dates. Three gamos 
precede each brook disallowing a 
large amount of momontum to 
get built up but also giving the 
team some time to rest up. “Some 
people think that having the two 
breaks is a bad thing,” Lackner 
said, “but I think it’s a positive 
thing. We’ll be able to rest up the 
guys, get their legs back under 
them.
“We’re expecting a lot of good 
things out of this team,” the coach 
said, “but right now they have 
only one thing in mind. Juniata 
College.” CMU takes on Juniata 
on the evening of September 5 at 
7 pm at Gesling Stadium. “I’d 
like to see a big crowd for this 
game,” Lackner said. “It’s time 
this football squad got some stu­
dent support. And if we do well, 
we’ll be helping the campus and 
student morale.”
Men's soccer keyed on health
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The 1992 edition of the Tartan men’s 
soccer team is hoping to avoid the injury 
bug that plagued it during the 1991 sea­
son. Last year’s season-ending injuries to 
star midfielder Alan Horn and veteran 
defender John Stivoric disrupted the team 
that nevertheless finished 10- 
4—3, good for a third-place tie 
in the UAA.
This season, Horn is back at 
full steam and looking to re­
gain the form that made him a 
four-time All-UAA performer, 
while Stivoric, still recovering 
from ankle and knee injuries, 
is expected to be ready for the 
September 9 season opener.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso 
believes the key to the team's success is to 
stay free of injuries. If some of the veter­
ans get hurt the team “will have prob­
lems.”
“If the team stays healthy,” he said, “we 
could have a very nice season. If Stivoric 
is ready, he will move from defense to 
midfield which will give the team more 
experience.”
However, if the senior is not fully recov­
ered, the Tartans will miss some valuable 
experience at the midfield position.
This year’s team is again a young one, 
fielding only six seniors among the top 15
players on the team, and playing five sopho­
mores, a freshman, and a transfer stu­
dent. However, Gaudioso said he thinks 
the extrayear of experience will help young 
players who were forced into major roles 
last season, like sophomore JeffMcJunkin, 
who replaced Horn last year. He has been 
moved to defender, where he will help 
senior J.R. Yakubisin man the defense in
“We just want to see the kids 
handle the ball and make sure we 
have 11 people who can do the job. ”
— head coach Nick Gaudioso
front of All-UAA junior keeper David 
Shapiro.
Gaudioso, who is beginning his 11th 
season as the head coach with a string of 
nine straight winning seasons, said his 
team will be in the middle of a pack of scrimmages] and make sure we have 11
Further, the team’s early development 
was hampered by NCAA rule changes 
which prohibited teams from practicing 
before August 24. Prior to this year, the 
team could start practice on August 15. 
The team finally faced a competitive situ­
ation in Saturday’s scrimmage with the 
Community College of Allegheny County, 
which ended in a 0-0 tie, and will face 
___________ Geneva in another scrim­
mage tomorrow.
“We played pretty good,” 
junior defender Min Chong 
said. “We've been practic­
ing less than a week, and 
we’re still not developed. 
It was a good lesson though 
— a good practice game. 
W e’re gradually im pro ving 
every day, and uniting as a 
team. That’s a good sign. If 
no one gets injured, and we don’t destroy 
ourselves, we’ll do well."
“Hopefully, we’ll see some good ball- 
handling,” Gaudioso said. “We just want 
to see the kids handle the ball [in the
teams at the top of the UAA which in-' 
eludes Emory, Rochester, Brandeis, and 
Washington University.
“This is a strong year for the confer­
ence,” he said. “In this league, you can’t get 
lucky and, when you have a good year, 
everyone else is bad. Every year the con­
ference is very strong.”
people who can do the job. It’s really too 
early to tell who’s playing where and how. 
Last year at this time, I would have known 
everything. We have the talent, so it doesn’t 
matter if we’re young. On the field, it’s 
depth that matters, not experience.” 
When everyone is at full steam, the 
Tartans have a number of outstanding
players, led by senior All-Mid-Atlantic 
Region forward Terence Sibiya, who racked 
up 10 goals last season to lead the team, 
and Shapiro, who set a school record with 
laBt year’s 0.54 goals-against average.
Horn, a fifth-year senior who was granted 
an additional year of eligibility by the 
NCAA, also returns. The midfielder was 
named to the All-UAA team for the fourth 
consecutive year last season, despite play­
ing in only the season opener. He is joined 
at midfield by Stivoric and Chong, a re­
gional Academic All-American, two-time 
All-UAA, and the second leading scorer on 
the team last season, and a trio of sopho­
mores, Vince Russell, Alex Amezquita and 
Pat Lucignani.
University of Virginia transfer Mike 
Brazinski and freshman Alan Levine are 
looking to make an impact, while seniors 
Mark Lotter and Rich Tesler, and sopho­
more Mark Hale add depth to the squad, 
which must replace the departed Rob 
Schaeffer and Young Kang, both four- 
year starters.
TheTartans open the season on Wednes­
day, September 9, hosting Washington 
and Jefferson at 7:30 pm. September 12, 
they host Case Western Reserve at 5:30 
pm as part of a doubleheader with the 
women’s team, and follow that up with a 
trip to the University of Chicago on Sep­
tember 19. On September 23, the team 
jvill return home to host Point Park at 
7:30 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992
Cross country 
born to run
By ILIR TOSKA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon is a school with a 
long standing tradition of academic 
and athletic excellence. The men’s cross 
country team is one of the athletic 
teams that exemplifies this tradition.
The team won 109 straight dual­
meet victories, a NCAA record, before 
losingtoDivisionlDuquesnelastyear. 
This year’s team will try to keep the 
winning tradition alive.
The team is coached by Gary 
Meckley, a coach of outstanding cali­
ber, who has a record of 228 wins and 
22 losses since his arrival at CMU in 
1966.
The team has never been ranked 
lower than third in the UAAs and won 
the championship meet in 1989. Re­
turning starters from last year’s team 
are seniors Brad Shapiro, Scott 
Phillips, and Rich Hayes, junior Jim 
Langer, and sophomore Scott Perfater.
These veterans will be joined by fresh­
men prospects Scott Moore, Matt 
Beam, and Mike Rea.
Phillips said, “This was a good re- 
cruitingyear,"and that the team could 
be better than last year, if no major 
injuries occur. Last year Perfater was 
injured during the season, but now he 
is healthy and ready to contribute to 
the team’s success.
This will be a season of learning, 
both forthe coach and the team, which 
is made mostly of freshmen and sopho­
mores. Meckley predicts thatthe team 
will be able to continue as previous 
teams have, and finish in the top four 
in the UAAs, but in a sport such as 
cross country nothing is written in 
stone.
LaBt year the team was predicted to 
be in the top 20 in Division III East 
and ended up 18th in the nation. 
Therefore we will not know until Oc­
tober 24, the day ofthe UAA Champi­
onships.
Women’s soccer starts UAA
By ARUN JAYAKUMAR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
& ALIM RAY
Tartan Acting Sports Editor
The CMUWomen’s soccer team fin­
ished 11-4 last year, in their first year 
aB a varsity team. Just this season the 
team has become a _______________
The top upperclassmen on the team 
are goalkeeper Trish Henrich, who last 
season had a 0.77 goals-against-aver- 
age, junior forward Julie Paul, who was 
last year’s leading scorer with eightgoals 
and six assists, sophomore forward 
Christina Isaly, who was the second 
leading scorer last year, with seven goals
Cross country begins again
memberoftheUAA 
and will play in 
league format.
Coaching the 
Tartans for the 
fourth year is Julie 
Shackford, a three­
time Division I All- 
American, who 
played for William 
and Mary College.
Shackford is unsure about how the 
team will perform in its first UAA sea­
son, because it has not faced most of the 
teams. However,CMU haB played UAA 
teams in non-conference games, such as 
last year with Case Western Reserve. 
Two teams CMU is especially looking 
forward to playing against are Allegh­
eny College and Seton Hill. Shackford 
also believes that the local Pittsburgh 
colleges will be good competitors.
"[We want] to go better than .500 in the 
UAAs... [and] to really enjoy ourselves. 
We're basically a new team.”
— Co-captain Sonya Chmielnicki
and 1 assist, and senior defender Sonya 
Chmielnicki, who, according to 
Shackford, will “anchor the defense.”
The three captains of the team are 
Chmielnicki, midfielder/defender 
Rachael Weiss, and forward Rachel 
Bourn.
According to Chmielnicki the team 
has set up some interesting goals. "[We 
want] to go better than 0.500 in the 
UAAs... [and] to really enjoy ourselves. 
We're basically a new team. Our goal is
to have a really good time."
Chmielnick added that the squad will 
work on team unity this year by having 
all meetings in the women's soccer house 
in Resnik Hall.
Some other top upperclassmen aré 
senior midfielder Tracy Howard, juniors 
defender AnhNguyen,junior midfielder/
_________________ defender Diantha
Korzun, junior 
midfielder/de­
fender Jessica 
Strieker, and 
sophomore' 
midfielder/de­
fender Kathi 
Watson.
In addition, the 
freshmen to watch" 
are goalkeeper Lara Whitt, forward 
Erika Banuelos, midfielder Maria 
Casella, midfielder Bridget Caster, and - 
defender Anita Sheth.
In the UAAs, each team play s 17 regu­
lar season games. The top team receives 
an automatic bid to the play-offs, and 
the top teams in each region advance to 
the post-season. Each game is played in 
45-minute halves, for a total of 90 min­
utes. There are 11 players on the field 
from each team.
By DIZZY MURPHY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This year the members of the 
women’s cross country team will 
have to rely on each other in­
stead of just one player. “It all 
depends on how well they run 
together," said coach Dario 
Donnatelli on Saturday.
Some of the best runners will 
not be on the team this year for 
different reasons. This means 
the coach will have to train more 
novice-intermediate runners in 
order to fill in the gaps the big 
guns left behind.
Fortunately they still have time 
to train. The UAA meets will start 
on Saturday, when the team will 
run time trials at California Uni­
versity of Pa. This will give the 
team some time to improve run­
ners like senior Wendy Evans, 
freshman Missy Bausetent, 
sophomore Christa Sober, junior 
Jodie Pickelou, and junior 
Cynthia Kolonaski, among oth­
ers.
The team will have only one 
meet at CMU. It will be the Pitts­
burgh All-City meet which is 
scheduled for October 9 at 4:15 
pm.
When you don't know where to turn«.«
HELP.LINE
A service of the United Way 
of Allegheny County255-1155
PRACTICE
SHOTOKAN KARATE
AT CMU!
j "¦mi.. _
Ame“
“ The ultimate aim ofthe art of karate lies not in victory or defeat, but in the perfection ofthe characters of its participants.
- Gichin Funakoshi
CMU Shotokan Karate Club is looking for men and women to join the club who 
will approach training seriously, recognizing that traditional Karate practice 
requires both mental and physical commitment.
NO FEES! CMU Shotokan is a non-profit club teaching traditional Karate-do.
Beginner’s classes start:
Saturday, September 5 
and
Tuesday, September 8 
Wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothes.
Practice Times for Fall 1992:
Beginners and Advanced 
Tuesdays, 7:30 - 9:30 
Saturdays, 12:30 - 2:30 
Advanced only 
Thursdays,7:00 - 9:00 
All classes meet in the gym.
Career Center . Carnegie Mellon . Warner Hall 19 . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . (412) 268-2064
Fall 1992 Workshops and Programs
Resume Writing WorkshopSklbo 12 
Skibo 12
August 26 
September 17
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.
Resume Express
Stop by for a resume critique
Grey Matter 
Grey Matter
September 2 
September 8
10:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m.
Career Library Express
Examples of useful publications to be found in the 
Career Center Library.
Grey MatterSeptember 810:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m.
Career Center Orientation 
Meet Career Center staff, learn about services and 
procedures, obtain valuable publications, get your 
questions answered
Warner Hall 19September 910:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
Graduate School: Whether and When 
Decisions
Skibo 13September 224:30 p.m.
Job Falre...Another Way to Find a JobSkibo 12 
Skibo 12
September 23 
October 27
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.
Interviewing 101Skibo 12 
Skibo 12
September 29 
October 8
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.
Technical Opportunities ConferenceSkibo BallroomSeptember 2410:00 a.m: -4:00 p.m.
Senior Career Goals: How Clear Do I Need 
to Be?
Skibo 12September 304:30 p.m.
Job Search StrategiesSkibo 12October 144:30 p.m.
Cover Letters and MoreSkibo 13October 284:30 p.m.
Help forthe "Less Decided" MajorsSkibo 100November 44:30 p.m.
Business Opportunities ConferenceSkibo BallroomNovember 510:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m.
Summer Job InformationGrey MatterNovember 1110:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m.
Getting a Head Start on Summer 
Employment
Skibo 12November 174:30 p.m.
On Site Employment InterviewsSkibo 13November 194:30 p.m.
Read the Andrew bboard offlclal.career-center for additions and changes to this schedule, job vacancy postings, 
campus recruiting schedules, employer meetings and other Career Center information.
Shotokan Karate of America
A non-profit organization teaching Karatc-do in America since 1955

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 199213
Newcomers accent v-ball
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
& MIKE HOFSASS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With anew assistant coach and 
new players joining CMU veter­
ans, the women’s volleyball team 
is motivated and ready to shoot 
for the top.
Assisting Coach Charlotte 
Fisher, who starts her third year 
at CMU, are David Klimke, who 
returns for his second year of 
action, and introducing Sue 
McDonald, who comes to CMU 
after serving four years as assis­
tant at the University of Pitts- 
j burgh. McDonald will serve as a
UPCOMING SPORTS
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. Please pick up your en­
try forms in the IM office, room 
104 in the gym. When signing up 
teams, please list the name ofthe 
team, the captain’s name and 
home phone number, and the 
league in which you would like to 
play: majors, intermediates, mi­
nors, or women only. Games will 
begin Tuesday, September 8. 
dheck the IM bulletin board for 
your team’s schedule of league 
games. We need commissioners 
and good officials. Please sign up 
in the IM office. A mandatory 
nieeting for all touch football team 
captains will be held on Thurs­
day at 4:30 pm in the small gym. 
All teams must have a represen­
tative at this meeting. Team ros­
ters must be turned in before this 
meeting.
head coach alongside Fisher. “Sue 
[McDonald] is a hitter and will 
coach the hitters. She coaches 
well,” senior Heather Thompson 
said. “She's tough," freshman Jen­
nifer Goetz said. “I don't know 
what things were like before, but 
she seems to be bringing new 
ideas to the team.”
McDonald is not the only new 
blood around. This season the 
Tartans welcome freshmen 
Patricia Bruno, Goetz, Courtney 
Booker, Nyck.E Sims and sopho­
more Molly Brennan to their ex­
perienced ranks. This experience 
comes in the form of the five re­
turning seniors: Ann Feng, Lisa 
Leonardo, Lisa Devlin, Thomp­
son, and Joanna Downer.
Players and coaches are not the 
only new thing around the volley­
ball net this year. Fisher said 
they have changed just about ev­
erything, including servicing for­
mations, defensive strategies, and 
their overall offense, to which they 
are adding many new and excit­
ing plays.
The team’s outlook is positive. 
After finishing with a 16—24 over­
all record last year, fourth in their 
conference, the Tartans are set­
ting their sights on taking this 
team.
“We have an attitude to do the 
best we possibly can, as a team 
and to do our personal best,”
IM News
TENNIS
Entries are due September 10 
at 4:30 pm. Matches will be played 
starting September 14. Teams 
will play two singles and one 
doubles match at the same time. 
The team who wins two of the 
three matches is the winning 
team. We need a commissioner. 
Be sure to list your team name, 
captain and phone number, and 
the league in which you would 
like to play: majors, intermedi­
ates, minors, or women only.
GOLF
The E. J. Birdy Open will be 
played on the Schenley Park 
course on a date to be announced. 
You can rent clubs at the club 
house.
You may play as a four-person 
team or as an individual. Sign up 
your team in the intramural of­
fice as soon as possible. We need
a commissioner.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Entries are due September 10 
at 4:30 pm. You must have three 
females and three males on the 
court to start the game. If the ball 
is hit more than once on your side 
of the net a female must play the 
ball before it crosses the net. Be 
sure to circle the league in which 
your team would like to play: 
majors, minors, intermediates, or 
women only.
INTRAMURAL BOARD 
MEETING
The first organizational Intra­
mural Board Meeting of1992 will 
be held Thursday at 12:30 pm in 
the Intramural office which is 
located in room 101 of the gym 
building.
At these Intramural Board 
meetings important information
write for ^Sports
If you are interested call Robby at x2 1 1 1
Calling All
Industrial Management 
anti Economics Majors!
The Student Advisory Committee (SAC) of 
the departments of Industrial Management 
and Economics is inviting applications for 
membership from all majors in these 
departments.
Please stop by GSIA Room 206 for an application 
form, or call Claudia Kirkpatrick at x3512.
First fall meeting: Wednesday, September 2, 1992 
at 5:30 pm, GSIA 227.
Thompson said. “We work to­
gether well. All the seniors are 
playing at their peak perfor­
mance. We have a family feeling 
that will bo beneficial and we're 
looking forward to our best year 
ever.”
“I had trouble deciding whether 
to stick with the team at first. 
But they’re atight team, and they 
really encouraged me to stay with 
it. They were really supportive 
and I’m looking to have a lot of 
fun,"said Goetz.
There are scrimmages on 
Wednesday and Thursday, both 
starting at 5 pm, and the opening 
season tournament is in Marietta 
Ohio on Friday and Saturday.
concerning your team, rules, vio­
lations rule amendments, sched­
ule changes, and sportsmanship 
will be discussed.
The Intramural Board meets 
on the first and third Thursday of 
each month and all Intramural 
team representatives are wel­
come to attend the Board meet­
ings.
Please plan to attend the im­
portant first meeting on Thurs­
day at noon as the following offic­
ers will be elected: Vice-Presi­
dent, Secretary, and President of 
the Women Only Leagues. Please 
call the Intramural office at x2214 
if you have any questions.
OFFICIALS CLUB
Any student looking for a cam­
pus job may join the Intramural 
Officials Club. The Officials Club 
is now looking for touch football 
and soccer officials. Interested 
students should contact assistant 
Intramural Director Mike 
Mastroianni at x2193 or x2214.
-
-:V ' wWkIf what happened
iw : ¦on your inside
happened on your
outside, would
you still smoke?
NOVEMBER 15.
V £ 4 A. FILMTHE GREAT AMERICANSMOKEOUT.
Compiled by 
ALIM RAY
AlenNAw 1enl9 2e7Nl- 
65c
9l1l7 -575c oc5uce1 
eN
1eull 251l79 A59orNen
t syfCCMUMP fCbiUfCR 
ahCC OmUR hgf RgMgf sOCyU’CMs 
v Uh UMkCfCskCR ODCmsC ymDD— 
_IH,ppHI mhkCf 3O’ gMD©
classified
fOR SALE
Great church basement omnium- 
gatherum sale. Community of Reconcili­
ation, Bellefield Towers, Bellefield and 
Fifth. September 11,1992 — noon - 6 
pm and September 12, 1992 — 9-3 
pm. Home furnishings, appliances, 
clothing, books, live music, storytelling, 
food, drinks, baked goods (Hillary 
Clinton's and Barbara Bush's cookies). 
Call 682-2751 for further information.
HOUSING
Graduate student/faculty. Sq. Hill - pvt. 
home, family street, 3 bedroom, integral 
garage. Stein Company, 687-7100.
For sale - Greenfield. Beautiful 
contemporary home, 3br, 2 full baths, 
den, gameroom, located on cul-de-sac 
street. Enjoy low heating bills with 
passive solar heat. A great buy for just 
579,000. Hanley Agency 422-7900.
For rent - Restored Victorian, available 
Sept. 1,1992, 4 bedrroms, large living 
and dining rooms, beautiful oak mantels, 
quiet residential street just 2 miles from 
Oakland. A rare opportunity for graduate 
students (no undergrads). S500/month. 
Hanley Agancy 422-7900.
Affordable student housing - white, 
female - share home with single mom/ 
student. Near transportation, includes all 
utilities, appliances, laundry, and 
computer. Available for 2-3 shifts of late 
night babysitting - $300 + food. Willing 
to negotiate. Serious inquiries only. 563- 
1978.
Earn $500+ weekly stuffing envelopes at 
home. Send long SASE: Country Living 
Shoppers, Dept. C22, 14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd., Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
Alaska Summer Employment - fisheries. 
Earn S5000+/month. Free transporta­
tion! Room 6c board! Over 8,000 
openings. No experience necessary.
Male or Female. For employment 
program call Student Employment 
Services 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5236.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Can you "C" or "LISP"? Undergraduates 
at the sophomore level or higher with a 
minimum GPA of 3.5 are invited to apply 
for a finite number of research assistant 
positions ranging from 10-15 hours 
weekly at the Engineering Design 
Research Center. Work involves learning, 
evaluating, and implementing software 
tools which support new approaches to 
design. A basic knowledge of program­
ming (preferably in C), and a willingness 
to learn new systems and work indepen­
dently are required. You can pick up an 
application at EDRC Hamburg Hall room 
1201. Salary range $4.75-55.75 per 
hour.
VOLUNTEER
Temporary coach wanted. Volunteers are 
sought to coach a Japanese women's 
touch football team. 4 to 5 hours total 
on September 10, 11, and 13. Time 
flexible. Japanese language skill not 
required. Please contact Tommy 268- 
3044 (daytime).
SERVICES
Professional typing of all kinds. Fast 
service at reasonable prices. 469-2287 (if 
machine, leave message).
Batik & tie dye artist seeks full & part- 
time help. 481-2911.
TRAVEL
JOBS
Club leaders for Young Judea. 
Responsible, creative, likes working with 
children. September - April employment, 
Sunday meetings. Salary + expenses. 
Licensed driver, over 21. Call Y.J. 
Regional Office-521-4877.
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.“ 
Experienced, friendly sen/ice. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St, Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Classified Policy
Deadline
Deadline for submission of 
classifieds to The Tartan is 5 
pm the Thursday before pub­
lication.
Rates
1-20 words............$5.00 per
week
21-50 words..........$5.00 per
week
50-100 words.....$10.00 per
week
•Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number. .
•Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
•Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
Let the Classifieds work for youl 
Send your ad with payment todayl
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Guaranteed Lowest Price:The finest designs from Europe ••• the best designs in America ... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
SAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The Z3*Checkpoint Eye Exam:Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric profile. The result... confidence in vision for you.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
OPTICAL
SQUIRREL HILL 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521-2100
In-House Laboratories:One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, and you get Dalmo’s assurance of the highest quality and 
accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision — In Frames and Contacts: 
Selection. It’s the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!

---------------------------------------------------

neggionnBggf
Volume 87, Issue 1The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania31 August 1992
It’s almost inevitable, but not quite
Nip it in the bud
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Summer’s done, the semester 
has sprung, and pretty soon 
things are going to start getting 
hectic around these here parts. 
Ho w can you keep things straight
— which book was I supposed to 
read for which class? When is 
that paper due again? Where the 
hell did I put that syllabus? Con­
ventional wisdom would have you 
spend twenty bucks on a mon­
strous black leather-bound daily 
planner, set your desk up real 
nice, complete with Post-It Notes 
and color-coded pens, and invest 
time and money in a complex 
filing system. Of course, regi­
mented plans like this usually 
last about as long as a liquid diet. 
Suddenly you realize that you 
somehow got behind in your or­
ganizing and figure it will take 
more time than it’s worth to get 
back on track. And you chuckle 
when you find that big empty 
planner somewhere underneath 
a pile of junk mail as you’re mov­
ing out of your room for the sum­
mer.
Well, there are things you can 
do short of spending an hour a 
day just to keep yourself orga­
nized. You don’t have to write 
down every thought you have 
every minute of the day — the 
important thing is keepingthings 
clear and simple. The suggestions 
which follow are some more prac­
tical ideas for those of you who 
just don’t have the time to fill in 
all those little lines in your plan­
ner books.
First off, invest in a planner, 
but try to find a small one that 
won’t cause you physical pain if 
you carry it around with you (the 
ones that have “Carnegie Mellon 
University" printed in gold on 
the front are tough, cheap, and 
pretty manageable). Use this 
planner to remind yourself of as­
signments and appointments in 
whatever way you find most use­
ful. Some people like to only record 
when something is due; others 
like to give themselves remind­
ers like “work on program due 9/ 
29.’’ Write whatever you feel is 
necessary to keep yourself on top 
of your classwork.
Secondly, you can try to keep 
certain hours, say 9 to 5 or 10 to 
6, every weekday, even if your 
classes end earlier in the day. For 
instance, if your classes end at 
two, go to the library and work on 
assignments until five. Then go
home and have some dinner or do 
something that you feel like do­
ing.
Thirdly, try to live and study in 
separate places. The best- 
planned study sessions can eas­
ily turn into three-hour rap ses­
sions with your buddies if you’re 
sitting in your room eating a 
pizza. This isn’t to say that you 
can’t be comfortable while you 
study, but why tempt yourself by 
doing your homework on your 
bed when you’re so tired you can
barely move your eyes around 
the page.
Last, and perhaps most impor­
tantly, prioritize. When thore’s 
only time enough for one reading, 
be deliberate in which you choose 
to do. If the professor already 
covered one of the readings in 
class, don’t bother reviewing it 
right now. Move on to the one 
you’ll have to know for tomorrow. 
Playing catch up is no fun, but it's 
easier when you at least have a 
grasp of the basic framework of
the topic.
When you’re prioritizing, re­
mind yourself of your goals. If 
you want to bo an artist, then 
obviously studio should como 
first. The same holds true for 
other fields, as well. It’s not tho 
best possible thing, but you can 
probably afford to get a lower 
grade in an elective than in your 
msyor.
The most important thing is to 
strike a balance between setting 
reasonable goals foryourself and
being a slouch. Write your as­
signments down, but don’t foel ¡is 
if you havo to color-codo thorn 
according to dasB, duo dato or 
any other ridiculously arbitrary 
old thing. Those typos of “timu- 
savers" are usually moro troublo 
than thoy’ro worth. If you put1 a 
little reasonable effort into keep­
ing yourself straight with whnt 
you havo to accomplish, you can 
probably keep yourself from idl­
ing promaturely gray or stark 
raving mad this somester.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor 
Members of the Aikido Club demonstrate technique at the 
Activities Fair. OverlOO student activities were represented 
at the fair.
Activities balance work
By ANDI FRANCIONI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
At the end of every summer, 
many students return to school 
recharged and ready to go. They 
will sign up for about 500 activi­
ties on top of their class sched­
ules and, before they know it, 
they’re passing whole days and 
nights within Skibo’s walls.
Another breed of student sits 
around the dorm doing homework 
and other such nonsense 24 hours 
a day. Occasionally they venture 
to another building for food or 
classes, but for the most part they 
become very intimate with the 
tiles on their bedroom’s ceiling 
and can recite the syndicated TV 
show schedule by heart.
Are you destined to be one of 
these types of folks? Absolutely 
not! With a little planning, 
activités can ease stress and pro­
vide support, companionship, and 
fan.
Carnegie Mellon offers over 100 
activities, ranging from business 
clubs to Scuba diving. Students 
can try new things as well as 
familiar activités. Brian Sheve- 
lenko, junior psychology major
and member of the CMU Scuba 
Club, says, “Scuba is a fantastic 
sport. Everyone should try it 
once.” No diving experience is 
necessary to join the club, which 
sponsors activities like dive trips 
to Florida, introductory Scuba 
events in the pool, and guest 
speakers.
Many organizations acknowl­
edge their members’ time re­
straints and allow different lev­
els of involvment. The Associa­
tion of Industrial Management 
and Economics (AIME), an orga­
nization for students of any ma­
jor who are interested in busi­
ness, seeks to enhance their mem­
bers’ interest and helps to pre­
pare them for the business world. 
And, perhaps most importantly, 
the time commitment required to 
be a part of AIME is flexible 
enough to allow students to choose 
their level of participation. Presi­
dent Jennifer Jacoby, a senior in 
IM, says, “With AIME, you can do 
as much or as little as you think 
.you can handle.”
Like AIME, other organizations 
at Carnegie Mellon are focused 
on providing students with a ca­
reer-related grounding for the
future. The National Society of 
Black Engineers (NSBE) spon­
sors many events such as confer­
ences, workshops, and job fairs 
for students in technical disci­
plines. The NSBE is also aca­
demically motivated, encourag­
ing members to do their best with 
the QPA Club. According to NSBE 
President and junior IM major 
Vesta Hodges, the key to balanc­
ing academics and activities is 
careful planning of time and re­
sources. “You have to plan ahead. 
Wait until the last minute and 
everything is hectic,” she says.
Often, there’s simply not 
enough time in the day to do all 
that needs to be done, let alone 
participate in an outside activity. 
Jodi Finkel, a sophomore theatre 
major who participates in ser­
vices at B’nai B’rith Hillel, says, 
“When I have time to go to Hillel, 
I do... I miss it when I don’t have 
a chance to go, but we have re­
hearsals at night, so there’s not 
much choice.” But the benefits of 
making the effort do pay off: “I’ve 
made a lot of friends, from both 
CMU and Pitt, so I know people 
outside the university, too.” 
Please see ACTIVITIES, page L2
CMU’s ratings ! 
raise questions
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Asst .Features Editor
Soyou’ve finished your first 
week of classes, and you’re 
thinking, “Could it be any 
worse?’’ Just how does CMU 
stack up to other universi­
ties? And why does it seem so 
easy to get in and so hard to, 
stay in?
Ranked 24th in the coun­
try in last year’s U. S. News 
and World Report annual 
college report, CMU had the 
highest acceptance rate (65 
percent) but the lowest fresh­
man retention rate (87 per­
cent). And the graduation; 
rate was the second lowest at I 
69 percent. (UCLA followed; 
at 67 percent). All of these 
would seem to support the 
“easy to be let in, easy to get 
kicked out” hypothesis. The 
“academic reputation” (24) 
and average SAT scores 
(1225), though, were compa­
rable with several more
Please see STATISTICS, page L4
Volunteering provides perspective
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
How are you going to deal with the 
anxiety of the semester? Sit around all 
day Saturday with a bag of peanuts in 
one hand and a remote control in the 
other? Why not try something else? In­
vest some time in others. Students across 
the campus have found relief from their 
anxieties and a different sense of direc­
tion through helping others in the Pitts­
burgh community.
Harriet Schwartz, assistant to the 
Dean of Student Affairs, strongly be­
lieves in the virtues of volunteering. 
“It’s a wonderful way to relieve stress,” 
she says. “Community service can act 
as an enriching diversion from studying 
... It’s a pleasant break from the stresses 
of schoolwork.”
Schwartz has also found that this 
experience encourages people to look at 
their problems in a broader context. “It 
forces you to put your life in perspec­
tive,” she says, and uses this example to 
clarify her point:
“Say for example that you have been 
studying for a test that has you feeling 
very stressed and overwhelmed. Then 
you go out and do some service — maybe 
talk with an unemployed man who can’t 
feed his family. Suddenly your test looks 
less important [when you compare it] to 
the worries of others. It gives you a
last semester working with disadvan­
taged kids in the city, exploring her 
interest in the problems of inner-city 
young people. “It was great for me be­
cause I felt that I was helping them and 
it was very relieving,” says Dean. “It 
makes you more aware of what’s going 
on today. You learn to become less self-
“[Volunteering] makes you more aware of 
what’s going on today: You learn to become 
less self-centered and more concerned.”
— Terrel Dean, 
junior, chemical engineering
different perspective on that test and 
makes things less overwhelming.” 
Terrel Dean, a junior in chemical en­
gineering, has also experienced the ben­
efits of volunteer work. “It’s great to get 
off campus once in a while. It’s a nice 
break,” she says. Dean chose to spend
centered and more concerned.” 
Francine Gemperle, a freshman de­
sign major, participated in the clean-up 
of Schenley Park during freshmen ori­
entation week, and now she’s eager to 
participate in more service projects 
through CMU. Gemperle was involved
with the Habitat for Humanity program 
in Chicago, and she is excited to begin 
volunteering with that program here on 
campus. Although she hasn’t had the 
time to become “too stressed out” by 
school so far, she hopes she’ll “be able to 
relieve stress by focusing my energy on 
other people’s problems rather than my 
own. Mine seem rather small in com­
parison.”
The CMU Community Center has al­
most 30 volunteer programs centered in 
the Pittsburgh community, and all of 
them could use student contribution. 
Maybe signing up to be a Big Brother or 
Big Sister or volunteering in a soup 
kitchen a few days a month would be a 
more beneficial way to relieve anxiety 
than an afternoon on the couch with a 
bag of chips and a remote control.
Gemperle says, “If you have the spare 
time, you should share it with others 
because not everyone is as lucky as you.
“If you can help them — go for it, and 
help yourself as well.”
Call Student Affairs at x2075for more 
information on volunteerism.
Sm’Ois sCfdUyCs 
ymM BCDO 
skiRCMks ygOC
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If, even with all your efforts, evil 
things sneak up on you and you find 
yourself waking up in a cold sweat 
thinking about them, there are 
places you can turn. Check out the 
Student Counseling Center 
(Morewood E Tower, x2922) by call­
ing or stopping in to make an ap­
pointment. They know how to help, 
and there’s no charge for the ser­
vices.
Student Affairs also runs work­
shops for student organizations, and 
one of tho many available is a time 
management seminar. These work­
shops are available at no cost, but 
you must request them from Stu­
dent Affairs (Warner Hall 206, 
x2075) at least two weeks in ad­
vance.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992
asar
Samuel Greenfleld/Tartan Asst Art Editor
Kickin’ and a’ grinnin’...
President Mehrablan enjoys a friendly game of soccer with the women's soccer team members last week. The President was 
also seen mingling with members of several different student organizations at the Activities Fair on Thursday afternoon In Sklbo 
Ballroom.
Activities offer 
break from work
ACTIVITIES, from page LI
Helping new students to avoid 
hectic situations and understand 
the workings of the University 
and colleges is the goal of the 
Student Mentor Program, which 
matches new CFA, H&SS, and 
IM students with upperclassmen 
who have similar interests. The 
mentors advise first-year stu­
dents, guide them through the 
necessary academic and social
transitions, __
and gener­
ally help 
them get 
used to Car­
negie Mel­
lon. “[The 
program is] 
designed to 
help them 
[new stu­
dents] deal 
with the 
academic
environment,” says senior phys­
ics major Michelle Hanson, the 
student mentor coordinator for 
H&SS and IM.
Sometimes organizations pro­
vide support not only for their
members but for other groups as 
well. Members of ALLIES, a ne'jv 
organization at Carnegie Mellon, 
pledge to support lesbians, gays, 
and bisexuals. Students and staff 
of any sexual orientation are wel­
come to become a part of AL­
LIES. Roslyn Hall, one of the 
founders of ALLIES and a Hous­
ing Area Coordinator, says, “The 
direction of the organization will 
be determined by the students.” 
She adds that
“You have to plan 
ahead. Wait until the 
last minute and ev­
erything is hectic. ” 
— Vesta Hodges,
ALLIES is 
meant to be an 
action group 
and its mem­
bers will give 
one-on-oni 
support to 
gays, lesbians, 
and bisexuals. 
With thejunior IM number of ex-
mSSSS^^SSB tra-curricular 
activities of­
fered at Carnegie Mellon, stu­
dents can choose to dabble in 
many activities or get heavily in­
volved in a few. Balancing activi­
ties and classes is tricky, but with 
some planning, it can be done.
Enhanced orientation program welcomes freshman class
By BOB DIXON
Tartan Staffwriter
• For freshmen, the first week of 
jife at Carnegie Mellon is a time 
{)f change and adjustment; this 
year, the program that tries to 
fcase those adjustments under­
went some revision itself. Tim 
Foster, assistant to the Dean of have been comprised of sections 
Student Affairs, characterized of residence halls from the same 
6ne of the major________
ling the composition of the stu­
dent groups. In past years, stu­
dents were randomly assigned to 
orientation groups. This year, 
groups were constructed using 
sections of residence halls; sev­
eral students living in the same 
hallway were placed in the same 
orientation group, which may
thanges in the pro­
gram as a new part­
nership between Ori­
entation counselors 
find resident assis­
tants. “The best thing 
¿bout this orientation 
was all the involve­
ment of the residence 
staff," said Niloo
Sobhani. senior chem----------------
istry major and Stu- 
ijlent Orientation Assistant. In 
(ho 1992 Orientation program, 
JÌAs and Orientation counselors 
Worked together with freshman 
groups. “Any sense of commu­
nity we’ro going to build at CMU 
is going to emanate from the reBi- 
^lonco halls,” Foster said. “The 
jcoy thing is this partnership."
; In addition to mixing Counsel­
or;; and rosidont assistants, now 
èmphasis was placed on control-
Schlag!”and“Donner!... Donner!
... Dormer!” could be heard.
A new event added to the Ori­
entation schedule was Playfair, 
an activity described as a “giant 
ice-breaker.” Playfair was an 
event designed to get all fresh­
men together in one place and 
make new students familiar and 
comfortable with each other. “It 
was amazing,” said Sobhani. “We
------------ were all participating,
but part of me wanted 
to see it [from the out­
side].”
One of the disadvan­
tages of the increased 
attendance at Orienta­
tion was the larger- 
T-:m Cncfor than-expectedturn-out i im roster at the Ciippership
assistant to the Dean Dance The number of
“Any sense of community 
we’re going to build at CMU is 
going to emanate from the 
residence halls.”
freshmen in his group left meet­
ings with impressions that they 
would not have time to partici­
pate in activities outside the class­
room, undermining the positive 
attitude and atmosphere that the 
Orientation counselors had 
worked to create.
Foster, who worked with Ann 
Witchner, assistant to the Dean 
of Student Affairs and director of 
student activities on this year’s 
program and will take over next 
year, said that plans for the 1993 
Orientation program will be more
directly handled by students. 
Plans include earlier and greater 
involvement of the program’s 
head counselors in the planning 
stages. Student Affairs has al­
ready begun to collect names of 
students interested in becoming 
1993 counselors; head counsel­
ors will be chosen in the coming 
month, and the entire counseling 
staff will be complete by the end 
of the fall semester. One of the 
goals, Foster said, was to get stu­
dents to “own the process.”
Her own orientation “was the
______________________________________ students, counselors,
and resident assistants 
area of campus. in attendance exceeded the maxi-
One of the added advantages of mum capacity ofthe boat by about 
resident assistant participation 150 people. Fortunately, another
was an increased level of student 
participation in Orientation ac­
tivities, Foster said. It was com­
mon to have RAs take their hall- 
wnys with them to organized ac­
tivities. Other advantages 
showod at activities like the 
Freshman Talent Show where 
chants like “Schlag!... Schlag!...
boat in the Ciippership fleet had 
been reserved in the event of such 
an occurance.
Also negative were experiences 
with some of the academic meet­
ings which took place during the 
program. Moneet Singh, fourth- 
year Architect and Orientation 
counselor, said that many of the
best week of my life—that’s whj 
I wanted to do it again,” Sobhani 
said. But, in comparison to yearfi 
past, freshman participation has 
increased steadily.
Singh said that 1992 was “defi^ 
nitely a lot better than our [1989] 
orientation when we tried to as­
sert diversity.”
Although he was not present 
for the 1989 program, Tim Foster 
concluded that this Orientation 
program generated more unity, 
or “a great deal more bonding 
than in the past.”__________
BOOK SALE!!
CITY BOOKS15% off new books 25% off used books35% off all Political Science, History, and LitCrit
Sale: August 29 - September 13
Mon.-Sat. 11-6 pm Tues. & Thur. 11-9 pm
Friday 11-11 pm Sunday 1 - 6 pm
481-7555
1111 E. CARSON • SOUTH SIDEWRCT 88.3 fm Pittsburgha radio station 
is looking for you 
to join us!
Listen to the latest new music, before it hits the stores • Play 
FIL .ci^s the music you choose from our 50,000+ 
IVIU o IO record library - the largest in Pittsburgh • Talk 
with high-powered record company executives and compile the 
REPT TOV Sa each week
Deliver up-to-the-minute Associated Press and local news 
reports • Interview controversial newsmakers and campusNews & Public Affairs
guests • Participate in weekly local, state and national news 
analysis programs • Record campus lectures such as Chuck D 
(from Public Enemy) and the lawyer who defended Roe v. 
Wade
Voice your opinions on LVOturdMy,N the WRCT weekly call-in 
sports talk show Q-pv^-H-Q * Cover play-by-play of 
all Tartan OjJUI Lo Football games and
selected Basketball games...even on the road (San Antonio, 
here we come!) • Be in the thick of Sweepstakes 1993, live 
from Start to Finish!
Produce live in-studio bands, call-in talk shows and concerts • 
Hands-on exf>erience with WRCT’s professional audio andEngineering & Production
ransmtssion equipment* Design and build huge wattageradio transmission equipmerîf* Design 
public address systems to rattle buildingsCome to WRCT’s first staff meeting of the year for new members: Wednesday, September 2nd, 5:30 pm in Skibo room 12.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992L3
Javi's back, and out for GOP blood
JaviVision Returns
Ma /jvier Grillo-Mjrxujch
rrl am far from a liberal—I even 
own an Ayn Rand t-shirt, but 
how anybody could watch a single 
minute of the Republican Na­
tional Convention without 
barfing up a lung is absolutely 
beyond me. Like many other stu­
dents, I spent the 1988 election 
secure in the hermetic bubble of 
Ay sophomore year of college, 
thinking that getting a college 
education was enough of an ex­
cuse for me to remain apolitical, 
but watching the sorry spectacle 
of a morally bankrupt political 
party scrambling to maintain its 
hold on power by demonizing 
anything not white, Protestant, 
and bouffant was enough to con­
vince me to cast a vote for Bill 
Clinton.
“'Too much has already been 
written about the hypocrisy of 
being lectured on family values 
by the same party which brought 
era the secret bombing of Cambo­
dia (stop rolling your eyes; if 
they’re going to practice guilt by 
association then so am I — be­
sides, I’m not the one who’s run­
ning for office). The non-issue of 
family values is but another at­
tempt at distracting the Ameri­
can public from the fact that our 
unemployment rate stands at 7.7 
percent, that Los Angeles burned 
for five days in the spring, that 
the G-7 summit was more akin to
a Fellini picture than a meaning­
ful gathering of world leaders, 
and that Bush could not even 
make the Gulf War succeed at 
being an evil and corrupt enter­
prise without any true moral 
foundation.
So what does that leave us with? 
I’ll tell you what it leaves us with: 
five days of jaded, over the hill 
quasi-fascists performing a 
twisted, reverse Midnight Ride 
of Paul Revere in which the Brit­
ish are coming but the herald is 
more interesting in yelling “THE 
BRITISH WOULDN’T BE COM­
ING IF IT WEREN’T FOR 
THOSE FAGGOTS/NIGGERS/ 
BABY-KILLING FEMINISTS/ 
PARENT SUING TWELVE- 
YEAR-OLDS/PEROT SUP- 
PORTERS/ATHIESTS/SINGLE 
MOTHERS.”
But let’s say for a moment that 
the Republican party dropped 
their bread and circuses approach 
to the election and stopped mak­
ing out-of-context attacks on a 
twelve-year-old theoretical trea­
tise by the wife of their opponent, 
would I even consider voting Re­
publican? No. For me the choice 
has never been Republican or 
Democrat, but whether one evil 
on the ballot justifies the choice 
of another evil, and the issue 
which has convinced me to put 
my ballot where my mouth is is
SPECIALIZING IN 
STUDENT 
HOUSING
% oCHARLES J. GREVE & CO.
REAL ESTATE 
308 McKEE PLACE 
PITTSBURGH. PA 15213 
(412)681-0102
CAROLINE O'CONNOR
Oxford Centre 261-6550 
Village Square 833-6770 
Ross Park Mall 366-1555 
Monroeville Mall 
372-7520
abortion.
I have never considered abor­
tion a woman's or a man’s issue. 
At its core, abortion is a civil 
rights issue. If there is such a 
thing as freedom in America, and 
that becomes more and more 
questionable with each passing 
day, this is a clear-cut test of our 
willingness to make a stand in its 
favor, evenif thatfreedom rankles 
certain diseased sensibilities to 
the point of fanaticism.
The question is not whether it 
is right for a woman to have an 
abortion on demand — and my 
opinion on that is none of your 
business. The question is that if 
the right of a woman to have an 
abortion is taken away, how long 
will it take before a state legisla­
ture can pass a bill proclaiming 
homosexual men as perverse ab­
errations without any rights un­
der the law, howlong before your 
right to properinformation about 
contraception is taken away, how 
long before you are not able to 
buy an Ice-T album or rent a 
Peter Greenaway movie?
Oh, I know what you’re think­
ing—“Don’t mind him! He’s been 
reading too much Orwell again!” 
My ultimate concern isn’t being 
oppressed but being appeased; it 
is being swamped with so many 
variations of the same message 
that the illusion of freedom takes 
the place of the real thing. The 
Republican arguments against 
abortion choice, sex education, 
homosexuality and the so-called
morally unsound media are re­
pulsive only because their crude 
hatefulness makes transparent 
the lust for power which moti­
vates them. But sophistication 
can be bought very cheaply in 
this country — as the current 
brood of pro-life television adver­
tisements proves beyond a rea­
sonable doubt.
choosing to make room at life’s 
table.” The final, issue-bending 
plattitude bandied about by the 
commercial is “LIFE, WHAT A 
BEAUTIFUL CHOICE.”
I don’t know how many people 
buy into this inane bilge. What a 
slick ad campaign such as this 
can prove is that the lack of a 
choice can be made to seem more
You're thinking — “Don’t mind him! 
He’s been reading too much Orwell 
again!” My ultimate concern isn’t 
being oppressed but being appeased; 
it is being swamped with so many 
variations of the same message that 
the illusion of freedom takes the 
place of the real thing.
The ads show pleasant, sensi­
tive families, packing their kids 
into station wagons and split- 
level colonial homes as a sensi­
tive voice-over proclaims that 
“these families toughed it out,
palatable than the possibility of 
making an unpleasant choice. The 
only glitch is that the choices one 
has to make in life are often as 
unpleasantas they are beautiful, 
and as much as the Republicans
would like to believe in a vision of 
tho United States in which a popu­
lation of God-fearing men rush 
home from work to choose among 
a multitude of life-affirming TV 
programs they are to watch with 
their pregnant wives, the reality 
is far more unpleasant than that.
In his essay “Why I Write,” 
Orwell cited his ability to con­
front unpleasant facts as one of 
his driving forces. I believe that 
unpleasant facts, and unpleas­
ant choices for that matter, are 
the only reason that people 
change, learn, reform, formulate 
ideas, and ultimately, use their 
capacity to think freely. The Re­
publicans don’t want to confront 
unpleasant facts, and, as their 
National Convention proves, they 
are willing to get as unpleasant 
as they can in order to make sure 
that we never have to either. Vot­
ing for Bill Clinton is an unpleas­
ant fact in my life — but at least 
I’m still thinking.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a 
1991 alumnus of the English de­
partment. He is currently pursu­
ing his master's degree in 
screenwriting at the University of 
Southern California.
Affordable 
Immigration 
Services
Nagel & Goldstein
Attorneys at Law 
263-2113
RODEF
SHALOMJUNIOR
CONGREGATIONIII
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS !
? 18-35 year olds
? Rodef Shalom Junior Congregation
? Full member of the Rodef Shalom Congregation
* Nominal membership fee for undergraduate 
students
* Social, religious and charitable activités offered
* and much more
For more information please call Rodef Shalom
62I-6566
'"/////1' "
1927 -65c l7ou rts yfC EDUCHTIDNflLSHOUIS
II
IF THAT DOESN'T WORK.TE NSTHLLATION IS 50%L HimIFF.
WHAT, THEY THINK YOU CAN STUDY 24 HOURS 
A DAY? PROVE HOW SMART YOU ALREADY ARE 
AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF CABLE INSTALLATION 
FOR JUST $29.95. GET ALLTHE SPORTS, 
MOVIES, MUSIC VIDEOS, NEWS AND COMEDIES
YOU DESERVE DURING THOSE HARD-EARNED 
STUDY BREAKS. AND WHEN YOU SIGN UP, WE'LL 
DONATE $5 TO THE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY
Association, CMUl osee tmdppmosdermlf
OR YOUR LOCAL TCI OFFICE TODAY.
TCI Cable Television
We're Inking television into tomorrow.
CNN M I V i S I* N USA NETWORK NICK AT NITE
If you are not satisfied with our service, however, and decide to discontinue your coble service within 30 days 
of Installation, we will credit your account with a full refund (pay-per-view and special events excluded). 
OFFICIAL RULESI MO PURCHASE NECESSARY. To out. lurpktt an Offad S~rfJ/lfc*« f,tu, !um ant »«I « r on trmty* U ICI Ofcp S«r(nuin. fO tot 1*018. Idurat. MO. 21218 l'eu ofco mof tnut tr, kjU/ hanifxnvf jvji nam. oMnt t**ti l/fi), ojr. uJkft, ont Irkf/Ksx runixt uiai't i" union! maint la Ox aUrm abort Cntr oi ofitn at jcv wrji, hut toth tnt// iruil tx mafrrf upotatrlfLPvtkifUtion. Ofxn to US Cotrft Umitrti. US ttuitrtx [oft II or oUtt] at JSCC ftnniflttnio coUtpt onIf. Untnwty of Pftufcur|h, PitliU,r[k CamtgH MtUon Unbtrvty, Pnuiurgh; Duqvttnm Unmnrtr, PmiLurfh; Ptnn Slat*, Jut« CotUp; St Vltttttrti. Cmnitvrp an4 Saton liJt CoHtgi. Gntmturg rmfAjjtri and thcr mmt&str famfet of TO Catit Ttirrtw) err! u o4rtrWf rwj [¿'jnvxssi oftnon Oft not ttfIM Su(f«<t to oi fttittd, tu*t onlkxdlmn. frjvfcum and otdnonn VOID WHERE PROHIBITED.ArublM And O'parcffiowfori tx dnifiami fmc torfrtrd*tcotrgr. V/ttrxrt otrrnpviuUt fot oliai
(OiidTm má Vtiduion: Dnom To tx ttftM for ttx «00wn% trojr formt m opncf Al itrrjsA art fniibf f”*1n firvnouut. pwtaÿana opt« lo tx boni trf Ihn« OfiadKMt arri alt* tinitan of txpjpnt ortaniMut Innn onItfUt or carfMtd bf hand in fjí it " ' ‘ ' " ' ' ' ' - ' " - -* - ¦ - '• -- ' -........................ oiwrtMf arri (jvnotxn oftran onkfUt or arrfMtd by homi n fÀ. « < forpá. mntxncalf iryvixrd, ixt. ¡nrJaui. Urrfxirí wttt u mmvi mrh ft/tUft du«. Sarri «£>hrrw»<f and ¡jvnaxn ofarjtt art na mftnUt jar or a&*t tnvt n Bx ofíu u ' -tu.. ...... ...... .
tx rtqurcd laifncnri ntum wttm 20 dop of ithtr/ Io Mhtr oMrta on offtlori ofcunfianu » vw cf hnJhtr n -n In Ox rml of a ávfjoLfcaun, rrrvhtOfi. lau or (Moft ài* noi blot ohi of wrrxn. urrt a Oanfxd. tdfMrturh rrmk^x tfar ItvrrrUxr JO. 1992. tul btfort ¡anuorf 1.199), Camncaun Ccmutara. 240 Toolo fart Onrt, Vrgrit txorh. VA 2H62.
¿awrf. Al fittiti tri tx owotdtri Ito mfionvbk/ n otwnxrl fu ha. Itohn
TC1 CjAtft íwttfntoln.
UND HEY.. UJHY NOTllllNTHESE oIIenary’rcUi!
I HERE’S SOMETHING ELSE THAT SOUNDS GREAT. ENTER TO WIN ¦ 
I THIS HIGH QUALITY, HIGH PERFORMANCE BOSE ROOMMATE II • 
I SPEAKER SYSTEM. AND TELL YOUR PARENTS YOU’LL USE THEM TO I 
1 USTEN TO YOUR LECTURE TAPES. HONEST^ *
B NAME-------------------------------------
Q ADORtSS-----------------------------------------------
jj MHlNP.Hu9999999999999999999999999999999999
6 ucaod99999999999999999999999999999999999
j^MAIL TO: TCI COLLEGE SWEEPSTAKES, P.O. BOX M028, BALTIMORE, MD 21260j

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 August 1992
Josh Froeman/Tartan Photo Editor
Think globally, act locally...
Nf© gik S1T•s MC' isCf,hfUCMRD© fCy©yDUMP ymMs Y kBC© BmdC 
sCOmfmkC gOCMUMPs hgf ymMsK PDmssK mMR kfmsBE
Madame Sybil consults the staré
Virgo (Aug. 23 — Sept. 22) 
Happy birthday! Beware of 
beets, the mammoth magenta 
menaces of our docile planet. 
No, seriously, make sure you 
watch what you eat. Knowing 
Dining Services, it might be 
watching back.
Libra (Sept. 23 — Oct. 22) 
While you’re great when your 
head is up in those thick Pitts­
burgh clouds, keep an eye out 
for low bridges.
Scorpio (Oct. 23 — Nov. 21) 
Don’t even think about sex be­
fore you’re married. Just stay at 
home and feed your dum cat. 
Don’t watch that tramp Murphy 
Brown on TV. Clean the bath­
room. And eat your spinach.
Sagittarius (Nov. 22 — Dec. 
20) Wear black. Dance in front 
of the speakers. Be pretentious. 
Eat soy. Speak solely in meta­
phors. Use imperative sen­
tences.
Capricorn (Dec. 21 — Jan. 
19)Try to chill out some. Noone
Statistics raise questions about 
CMU’s comparative difficulty
STATISTICS, from LI
highly-ranked schools. With these 
ratings, what would seem to be 
the problem?
Well, it’s not qualified appli­
cants that are a problem — in 
fact, they’re on the rise. “As of 
August p, we’d received FKp96 ap­
plications for admission, com­
pared to 6,995 last year,” said 
Director of Admission Michael
Steidel. “We enrolled 1213 new 
students ... last year the count 
was 1235.”
If qualified students aren’t the 
problem, what happens once kids 
get here? Some place the blame 
on adjustment and the change of 
scenery. Some place the blame 
on heavy workloads and time 
constraints. Some place the 
blame on so-called freshman
The
Roman
Catholic
Oratory
Parish
MASS E S <
Sunday;_________________
7:00 10$0 Saturday Mass
in GSIA
10:30 am. Sunday Mass with 
in GSIA Music, Coffee & 
Doughnuts after Mass 
12:00 noon Solemn Sunday Mass
in Heinz Chapel
Weekdays:_______________
12:30 20$0 Daily Mass
in Skibo Rm 39 (Chapel)
t^BBQ
You’re invited to a Free Barbeque Dinner
Wednesday, Sept. 2 
5pm - 8pm
If you need help in finding The Oratory, go to the front of Skibo and join a group that will be escorted around 5pm and 6pm to The Oratory.
Barbeque (free food) Introductions Meet Old Friends Make New Friends
Graduato School 
of Industrial Administration
The Oratory • 4040 Bigelow Boulevard For more information call 681-3181
really expects you to do that much 
work, right? Take longer lunches. 
And practice saying, “I wanted to 
take a semester off anyway.”
Aquarius (Jan. 20 — Feb. 18) 
The stars predict great misfor­
tune for you this week unless you 
immediately send $20 to Madame 
Loretta, I mean Sybil, care of the 
Features section, The Tartan. 
Heed my warning...
Pisces (Feb. 19 — Mar. 20) 
You are having far too much fun 
for one person. The rest of us 
have figured out where you live, 
and we’ll be over later, so make 
sure you have enough beer.
Aries (Mar. 21 — Apr. 19) 
There’s nothing wrong with be­
ing average. Someone has to dig 
the ditches of the world. Hey, at 
least you’ll always have a job. 
(As opposed to writers and art­
ists with beret collections.)
Taurus (Apr. 20 — May. 20) 
Overheard in the Highlander 
kitchen: Couldn’t you even find 
a clean knife to kill me with?
Gemini (May. 21 — Jun. 22) 
Walk along the Cut with a red 
carnation sticking out of your 
armpit. Paint little blue hearts 
on your ball-in-socket joints. Ro­
mance will find you.
Cancer (Jun. 21 —Jul. 2lj) 
Your zits will clear up this weefe, 
if you’re lucky.
Leo (Jul. 23—Aug. 22) You’re 
used to beingin charge, you hard- 
headed fascist. None of us have 
time for a revolution (Nike com­
mercials notwithstanding), so 
take a chill pill, turd bird—your 
job is safe.
Madame Sybil is a new bit of 
entertainment brought to you by 
the schizophrenics in the Fea­
tures section staff. Please don’t 
take us seriously — we’re only 
having fun (though we could prob­
ably use the twenty bucks).
“weeder courses” — courses sup­
posedly designed to eliminate all 
but the best students — a form of 
academic Darwinism. All ofthese 
factors have some influence on 
the difficulty of being a student 
here at CMU. The important 
question remaining may be the 
one that asks what can be ¿one to 
improve CMU’s standing with­
out sacrificing its students.
The Tartan 
Features 
Section
call x2111 to write
AUTOOTIKCDN IH&SS SENUdDM, 
©THIERS ©©UN© H&SS ©©TOM 
MAJJ©M dM MIMDIESs
Imagine that someone offered you $15,000' and a year to study 
something that has interested you for a long time, that excites 
you a lot, and that would require travel abroad in one or more 
cultures different from your own. Would that interest you, and 
what would you do?
A TtoGnft!)© S. GfD
tF©QQ@W!§[n)0|°)
can make this possible for you.
The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship program seeks to enable college graduates of unusual promise 
to engage in a year of independent study and travel abroad following graduation. Approximately 75 
Watson Fellows are selected every year, and receive grants ranging from $15,000 to $21,000 for 
travel and study abroad during the year following their college graduation.
The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS) at Carnegie Mellon University is one of a select 
group of 52 liberal arts schools that are eligible to nominate students for Watson Fellowships. Four 
Carnegie Mellon graduates have been selected as Watson Fellows since 1989:
Robert Cucuzza, *90, BA (Literary & Cultural Studies), Experimental Theater In England, Scotland,
France, and Germany
Mark Mlttelhauser, '91 [BS, Economics], Unemployment In eastern Germany
Chris Kasabach, '91 [BFA, Industrial Design/English), High-tech Western products in third-world
(African) cultures
Louis Faassen, '92, (BFA, Architecture/Creative Writing), Affordable housing in Ireland and Sweden
Eligible students include H&SS seniors, and non-H&SS seniors with an H&SS double major or minor. 
P.r.eliminarv_aDDlications due: October 1, 1992. Candidate interviews: October 9-12, 1992. 
Completed nomination materials due (at the Watson Foundation headquarters): November 2, 1992.
Additional Information: Sg’C kg m sOCyUmD UMhgf’mkUgMmD ’CCkUMP gM
2CRMCsRm©K 9COkC’.Cf WK p??WK mk I—jL O’K rM Gm)Cf AmDD j33E rMhgf’mkUgM 
rs mDsg mdmUDm.DC UM kBC Ax99 eymRC’Uy eRdUsgf© SCMkCfK Gm)Cf AmDD p_pE Contact 
person— -fE 0gsCOB lE -CdUMCK essgyUmkC -CmM gh Ax99E
JOr $21,000, if you arc married.
f

---------------------------------------------------

i WA> OHCI M Office/) Of THE 
LAW. rKffJ oyi !=AT£Fi,u B veHIHlr. X Qfd-AA^B A CR£Atl/R£ 0jc TftE tiJ-irHT. X 
STJLl. mfoeCS ¡7f£ LAW, ¿UTHOM XT 
IS pot MMS HlRMHrx'c pvpftsfj AS 
\T»f tenftue OF MYSTfexous fofLti IX WoTTC -rrvis ZeAL* FtOM T!f%e -
EXECUTIOMER
©W S 
ARCANE 
SLAYER *
Snorkin
This patch is to quit smoking.Jhis one's for 
caffeine...this one's for blondes in convertibles..
Snorkin
I'vo seen all thoso movlos...lot's rent a play Instoad.
THE AD VENTURES
OF
One /a7y Jvrof^er room 
on Tv>e plane T l5ac?le'j
Joe Fr.enc/5 area.^r-aj.nj Tht-Wjh 
a+ti £ •
\]ey/ Rermember T(n5 
h«T 7 ng to Utcnj
-fO The 1/Vi'2c»r«* if lA/(//Whatever tapperW
Yeah^. 
hey/ It'S h'hT
of Hotye Sro^so°r+> 
Vegetable bcunr/ hvfilfr.
H\ »v
Vol. 5 
OH, yea^-
Wellj fi/T T^-T 5W.- or> ^ 
JiSinTe3raTor, T^en- p,^°r 
<KS a- Cor>r>ieir'oraJ'icl_^
fab; door e«i T^T.
©gia VifC BmdC _CCM 
SDi’s© mV* NBC3C 
ye«vr_s. D° you Thin/c 
Newll ,ho pdfu nSpC to haunt you oni oF These djas 7 a
(VoW donr get an 
rnyif'ol on me, Ran. H<.7| whoti This Cerole 
Comr-ol far .
^0« 
AtO*. ”| |
^4 ne&dcotnics — ^ comics: swktftcomicst wist&ntial?aomics, strips,
sinpanztfs — ookatw-zr/ Brinfi c^our comics to THE TARTAN in Siiio 
Room 50 or caffl THE TARTAN atx,2111 andas£(¡or Dan or Sam.

---------------------------------------------------

Back by popular demand
¦fomweoF- IIISfwTeE s/n/tfT ' seu.if/6 'fmuM sax/rumes" RximpHOweR 
œCIEF/
V tms 
ru-aveR W08/U10H mes. y
'^^JiwieÒF«SS»*
i loOHsenscoe:
I ‘OPUS'S C|o5£1 É»C0W7ER
Urry
a wthA
r5UHAAPWg
H\m p W Mt mp WM ^ feFómfiwmsTHfovMvrTf/e ^ WP woRio/'...wo M-erM/vegyw? ¦¦ fot mans fan? svm/es/
tlsis/\mÂr\ ^ MUM Æ I (¿¡m. sufw^j .3 
faucprfL )
memrs. urns brjevempies.WMVBieMUimb mcflCHm aw/a no.
1*M*y MLhKy
Li££ (4tt£WU©m2
6Roeio^6
By GARY LARSON
The Far Side was a daily feature in the Pittsburgh PosK^azette. Last we heard, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette has been on a sabbatical.r£XPU\liO FANVtLtf 
V Vf\LU65.rA Reu&ious W&R Foe. TH6 SOOU OF Atfe&CA.
HtLLAfW-
,MAJORUN
RACE-SAmOS,HATRED OFMtNtuUe26Pc
THE WAUTouS J.THG. SlMPSotJS
+hc insurance 
Sal«mah,•the cKicken
f A^T\- > 
CHtl-t>R6iOS'v^ptôHTÇ. v
AtCm-
FE.M.K01SKAAkm-
ABoRTtorO
¦Hi« homicidal maniûc.
Every August, the fleas would test their endurance 
in the grueling Tour de Frank.
Things from Ipanema
vJkCfaSxl r6Nb i_y
ÉVALUES.
peo-
u)A£
ByyJASS
SXHIFF
]ATE AND A CHANNEL SHORT
le^âJ restrictions on the term CoaP 
kill, 2nd throvjh a loophole in the mildl'ft 
preservation I a 1x5 of We^dd, the otters 
are raised and slaughtered ¿n Nevada 
and distributed throojkout the chain. 
He suggested that if you o>ant fresh 
roâdkill, take advantage of the'jfou 
VMl it, we. Cook it * 30min. Qoirdntee.
"'d^rfifit Story concerns Zni^ '"ôtter\
this UiodJ”' f?oadk.il Cafe. Cus- 
(•“]V BgdC “4g J48a(OD$1UMV "Bmk Ntu 
1 fcod does not contain that burnt 
1 rvUer" taste that fresh roadkill ¡5 
p^ppojid to hdve. We asked the nan- 
133«r at one of tile local restaurants and 
Wje StjiJ that becàJSC there ¿re. noy
“Hey, boy! How ya doin’? ... Look at him, Dan. 
Poor guy’s been floating out here for days but 
he’s still just as fat and happy as ever.”
Otter
(3peakin<j of bad food, if you don't uianT\
I to Spend extra money on your Pining 
I Service Account; use the chart in the. 
i \next panel to determine the mim'ntum 
V | amount of mealS »jOU must Start 
K each week u»<fh tobnak even on 
_ lJour account. Rem «*!>{/•• if y0u paid
V\\V0Uf money and do not yet a good value 
\ yior it; itj not a service. bo Flt/NT AUOvT 
(\ VA and don't let anyone rip yoi» off/y
Dale Woeks lo go %remain
$350 
$328 
$306 
$284 
$263 
$24 1 
$219 
$197 
$175 
$153 
$131 
$109
L c^isiiniü : Bwdsi? 0Simultaneously all three went for the ball, and the 
coconut-like sound of their heads colliding secretly 
delighted the bird.
"This is it, Maurice! I’ve warned you 
to keep your hens off me!"

---------------------------------------------------

j m<Mjy a- 
Tjfe '<jm($16+0 4 NtW 3C-HOO!--ye*R AL*VAI>V TV"’«Oit'tM5 W^lMiTo o«f\i|ii / 
SfiDil-rvc. SofT I2RT0 , AfJJ> rrtotf £. /
rSL%£.f>CESS ^IfirHTS A '
stmtiTE.« WoHTH oF KMov^LEPiA, 
IMTO 3 Hovj«5 .>------^— --------------------
¡¡§[xLLEf\ ^UMNY
I WONDER /j a, \
IF | COUlO (
HIT THAT |C_J7iGUY DOWN 
THeRF WITH 
A LOOfiF.
NAMf: Killer pJnNI' 
OCCUPATION: spy
HOBBIt^PLAW.THf 
PIANO/ RCAD/N^r, 
GtMVEHlMC,, 
Gtfi/)TU/70dS 
violence...
' WHooi- bSE-Do. ) 
Hoo-RPiH- ^)W/PPie -Vi-vo-k«-VftY
"Wool worth
-<--------- txujtn^horóGru
DndE -CJoh
MlifAWr
COCMOACH/
iRa -Uoe7Uhy Otm6a6uMe
1 JfillX sex: asfun,OCCOPATlOtJ: ObEMH 
FAVORITE" FiOO: VlRd-W
CDOlJV iVffRRK, 
FlUFFY'5 5AFE-)
A lenNle w1927w-6 5co urttu65 ThM:V,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
EDMSYniJbAedAiWa HtRS ^ , ->—
------------------^TTTisT^^ouKPSR^U-V^-N'UaC VrufiNtD yCl jMfo A RtfeULflR1O. ____
g A’Uyv7M’uk D
IHPjTS .THe <^WTTER7j)^rCTi'HAVt
purpose - /5C-' C/lAirm
<ryWHftT' I'm \Sn 
o SKCOyPm KlfrHt/TO-^ — 3^[wow is A tXV) ÌVOKfHL£65 J V r ^
¿SkAWC) X5+J)w^r T6 0J
Tj/g E. ino^/W fe/tK ^ J
OOPS, uMA/fr 
SPEtu /
NAMf-' FLUFF)' (\ 
OCCUPATION'- MA&E 
MS M3<7 STUDIED: 
BIOLOGI', ART, 
COMPl/TEF, scicNtf, QUANTUM PHYSICS, 
JUJITSU...
N/AME : G-WK 
OCCO?ATIBtf: DRAGON IHrE-LLi^NCE RAT/fJCi.' —Pbv_I
¡SND/niss -rutffti«iES\Ke7- 9ocr7u, S1T2:UU0 ANDSTUFFVI.cÌMorJ.1 
¦tfHUjb-S’Li 6£T BEfTtR.
' UHH-..HE.LL0fH£R£. Ii*i 'MUR AIE.W 7^ 
v M£l6H6oRil>UD tlHU -X WAS U^DÉSINfr 
( ItEITHi* of Woo «NEW H»»' '
vJooLWoeiA «
'Wait' i^dm-t 11»T7t 1
Finnal4Wne ksl!Cn iAaL39
PLOf 50 F/iR 
NON^
fcCLA/R'-S Mtfi/V
mHIt,N
pUh7 gvC3©S 6 dPt7B
What’s a Wendell?bv Matt Goldbere
Ah, S«r«ni+y. Va.cAti'on is SocV> 
UiSS • K|otK,r>^ could distorb 
this perfed- rtekxa+ion. A.
OOriT FonifT 
S1/9c3 9N“cN
Tcy2Uu56a
A t\KAAAAAAA*A
'Look, W«fUe|l, <+¡5 fto use \ h'dina. Even if u/t hjidj/f- Pldtde you write yt>ur ocUlr«S5 oK elc^eri forms «IrWJy, your in5u'"«r1cc. _C-Qrnp<> >
rat+eti And ----.1/
ToIJ us loKerC V^V 
y-vVoO
r Don't forget, no classes ^ 
»n Afond«.y b«.t«-«Se it's r«oJ/y 
a. S«.fur<Jmy, lenNw Toady 
a.S if <> (oert <x Hondlt-y, 
N19 rii« surprise p^rTy 2 
the.Vea.ri w*s noted from A ^6un4it.y +0 TkorS Jay. 4!
diTTa^nJ^N
rJen^ell?/
Comics from the Mailbag
Jim’s JournalTbio^j X 
woWckvjp Wy ^ 
lovj^ Crutnchi^q 
$OV)V\J
\yt04Ì
There v«\i a\s» 
the soov*} of 
+We TV.
My o1U«r rEem*y»<A+e 
<j+e\if vMft* n•t'YKn
\vi*| 6r»»d /V\«^win3
AvAfir ita, «v\«i eA^-
Froi+ l'00P* 
r;oUt 00+ 6^ il'C
fco*- r?.
by Jim
JT ^0+ of» e«r'v
o,^iw +oio.y.
\Ì/
P^-i
to leo.1«« -fo»- 
To^ wok« up-
^t€ve w«is w^tfcW- Crooi fAomfry 
Aw\«r\ox ovmJ e«»+i^9 FrwitUofX r;<}Kt oot of tV\« 
boX-
'Uovi £«w yavj 
p^t fVvoS« uii+h- 
oot w\*\k?'‘TAi^y
f«<V»
( a.k.a. " Space Filler")
Chornies: We don't czlose at midnight.

---------------------------------------------------

COIVI I OSIn Pittsburgh, the only place to get your fill of Calvin & Hobbes, Doonesbury, (Jutland) and The Far Side.
TTrc>m pe L’ Oe i l I o i 3/ o li 1
vie w i n i> pie a s i_i re
TA OK DA DAAAAA' 1M STUPENDOUS MAN.N,HbMEEFFFvVIRTUAL REAL\T{ 
HAS NOTHING OH CALWN.
B/6J/M!HOW'S IT ' GOING,. FELLA ?
, Jl Ur
NEVER BETTER, PHIL, NEVER. BETTER! HOUJ'S EVERYTHING j UJITH YOU*
JUST GREAT! H6E, HEE! HO, NO, IS THAT YOUR -THATStAYNEW DAUGHTER- WIFEJINA! I YOU'RE WITH CUT KATHY LOOSE TONIGHT, AS SOON AS I JIM* MADE CEO' j
WELL, COMBS THAT'S YOUR WITH THE TBR- WIFE*SHE'S... R/TDRY,PHIUP! SHE'S SPEC- SO! WHO'S THAT TACULAR, UJITH YOU TO-JIM. / NIGHT, YOUR.>-----
YOUR FIRSTrin? you'peKIPPING ME' A MAN IN YOUR POSITION?
UH...NO, Ml WIFE.
I FEEL I H AVE AN OBLIGATIO^ TO KEEP A JOURNAL OF Mfi THOUGHTS.
BE\HG A GEUWS, IAS \DEAS 
ÄßE NATURMLX WORE 
IMPORTANT AND INTERESTING 
THAN OTHER PEOPLES, So ¦ 
I FIGURE THE WORLD WCWLD! 
BENEF\T FROM A RECORD j 
OF IAN MENTAL ACTW\T\E5. i
So WHAT ARE '(OO WR\T\NG TOO AH ?
I CJNLDNT • 
REALL< TUlH^w 
OF ANYTHING, , 
3^ I’M DRAWING- 
SOME N\ARTIANS: 
ATTACKING 
IND\ANAP0L\S.PRETTY EASY THAT'S ON THE EYE,YOUR NEW HUH? /WP/^ MFB, TBLLYOU, 5HES JIM* QUITE A UVE
SHE WORKS LI KB A DEMON AT THIS UTTie PECORAI!NO BUSINESS I SET UP FOR HER, AND YET SHE STILO PENCIL3 IN PLENTY OF TIME FOR ME! I CANT TELL YOU HOW SUPPORTIVE THIS LITTLE ¿Mk GAL IS!
KATHY WAS ALWAYS TEARING ME DOWN, RE - MINPING ME OF WHERE I CAME •% FROM. I JUST WASN'T GETTING ^ V MUCH RETURN ONelà ëy.àmsU T-. Bla XVESTMENTJ^d
NOT SO WELL, FRANKLY. I HAP TO SEND THEM BOTH TO MILITARY i. SCHOOL. .
JIM, SHE RAISEP YOUR KIPS.
.. o* ‘ÌJod-op. 
FoV. S'Hop.V.
A\C+U«LU, V\4kE "C^LViK,Bo'i QEN'U 5,
HopE oF M^WKÌNd.”
(¦VH^t’s “Pod-oP PES+W, SIR"
to You.)W JOURNAL IS OFF TO A GOOD START.
SHE'S HIS llri, WIFE* SHE CAN'T BE JMSAYS HALF HIS ,1$AGE! UW&...
I PONT WEPON'T CAPE! THE KNOW THAT, WOMAN MARILOU. BROKE UP SHE MIGHT A 25-YEAR NOT HAVE MARRJAGE ! BEEN IN- / VOLVBP!
ITS NOT ABOUT RJGHT! MONEY, MARJLOU. THATLTTTIB THEY SIGNED A 0PP0RTUNIN6... PRENUPTIAL I AGREEMENT. ^
HOW ARB JUST FINE. THE KJ PS ONE OF THEM TAKJNG USEP TO IT2 PATB HER-
I WISH tAY 
SHIRT HAD 
A LOGO OR A 
PRODUCT OH \T.
IT SAYS TO THE WORLD,"IAV \DENT\TY IS SO WRAPPED UP IN WHAT I BUY THAT I PAID THE COMPANY TO AIXERT\SE ITS PRODUCTS/*
A GCOD SHIRT 
TURNS THE 
WEARER INTO 
A WALKING 
CORPORATE 
BILLBOARD/ ‘
OU SURE;1. 
ENDORSING" 
PR0DUCT5 IS 
WE AMERICAN 
m TO 
EXPRESS - 
INOWJIDUALlTj,WELL, IF YOU ASK ME. THE JfSj) ONLY THING IT VALIDATES IS HIS FAILURE- ^ / AT HOME.
IT'S NOT FOR ME, OF COURSE, BUTA YOUNG NEW WIFE POES GIVE JIM A DYNAMIC IMAGE.A WOMAN UKB THAT VALIDATES¿r * HIS SUCCESS IN \ ---^^THB WORLD! /
PEAR, IF YOU Efä, NEEPTOBESEEN V/>p WITH A BIMBO,WHY DON'T YOU COULD&L JUST RENT ONE I?FROM AN ESCORT /0P '___'SERVICE? /
KNOW WHAT I PRA1 FOR?
THE STRENGTH TO CHANGE 
WHAT I CAN, THE INABILITY 
TO ACCEPT WHAT I CAHT, 
AND THE INCAPACITY TO 
TELL THE DEFERENCE.
VOU SHOULD LEAD AN 
INTERESTING LIFE.
OH, L 
ALREADN
I'VE BEEN THINKING IP LIK3 TO SPEND TWICE THAT ON YOURS ! OH, DARUNG, I'M REALLY HAV-
^------X IN0 5lJCH FUN/ \ Mnotpi•/ \ THROUGH/ V OURV\ MONEY!
IWK, PARLINO, IT'S THE STBINBEROS!MY, SHE'S HOLDING UP WEIL, CONGIP- BRING SHE'S rX CLOSE TO FORTY- A A SOMETHING...
YOU KNOW, TOUT LB MONDE IS STILE TALKING AB0U11 WIT MILLION-POLIER. BIRIHMY___SOIREE SHE/ ) THREW FOR/ HUBBY...
WHEN YOU SURFACE-,PEAR, COULD YOU ASK WHAT?FOR THE ICHECK?
SPE CIACLI ZNGATT EUI
COUNTRY ARE WATCHING
DIFFEREHT ,______________
T\ SHOWS Ithan Sn jrX-rX are.' /s '-s
IF WE DONT AVL WATCH THE 
SAME TV, WHAT WILL KEEP 
OUR CULTURE HOMOGENEOUS? 
,WE CANY RELCON W0H0L\TU\C 
I NETWORKS TO PROV\OE 
5 UNIFORM NATIONAL BLANONESS £ ans More /
DHO6O2 2D-55 FNWAel5j2f 
fi lej /l5fFl6D^ ......
SPE EUIo 
jArE NA>I 
-eDW 316 
HOMES'YOU’RE NOT RUN- I KNOW.NING OFF WITHOUT WE'VE MET SAYING GOODNIGHT, ABOUT TEN APB YOU ? YOU MUST TIMESBE MARJLOU! I'M BEFORE.JIM ANDREWS! /
IS THAT RIGHTr 6REAT! LISTEN, WE'VE GOT TO GET YOU KIPS OVER ONE NIGHT' WB JUST PIP THE WHOLE HOUSE OVER !
YOU THANKS.SAID IT' JIM! BEST WELL, BEST TO YOUR TO THE ANOREXIC J™FAMILY! LITTLB MEGT\ COOKIE' H3f-REALLY? WHATFUN \ FOR YOU1
Calvin and Hobbes was a daily feature in The Pittsburgh Press. Now it isn't.
Doonesbury'J£$a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Whatever that is.
Comics from 
MailbagHOH T» 4>£7 A JoB AfTEfS COLLEGE
pg1iJgE UJITH Yóufi f-ESOMÉ, fr cavep.
LÈTTE/2- Pß-trJT&D Ort £/rì& < oTTOrJ'S ó N D 
PAPet wiTtt A LASFg. riL/rJTe£—
Youp- ¡’f-osrecT^e eMPL-oHee-ì Be
Toucwep Le i^a/oijJ Y60 ie/^iT Lf-a Trte
i/\/viE /wass-rdooucep Lervee. you y^AJr
TO 300 oth^R- ¿oa^.Paa'ig'5-
AT YOU* /MTee-Vierivr
iVe-^P- HAF-P ifioE-t- 
Pori ‘T Cfte UJ 60M-
WHATlou oftet W?\/ /rVtLCAW/^N V OJ. __Aovci.Tii/'j'* • 11Jy<r~p\
pì/a/t ur K tesvwE KA
(¿/WI^ö'S. foX A FAriC-Y 
Bot-pez Af-bON[> IT, ANP 
WÄlTe -iooß. NAME IAJ
016 ¿orme- L-Eryep-s
AND Ke/MEA^ff*=jtuse.
x \VAi o fj A*i^ J-cHoOl. C€BATC iOOAO- ,0* X «.eA^^eP 0it6A^rtA-noA/At, : / uCADeASH/f» aa/PTphutUtvHb iKiu-S Ar Pa/b-Y
¡Y \ aoee-N./AH MOM SferJT tnoo 
otvF THU iv/lT-
tEFof-e yau ka/öw /t, yòo'll se- l-eap/mc- 
the ex^T/rio I'To-s waKKfA-see l-//=et 
PEPie-TEP PY 'ydUP- FAVORITE 5TAF-S OH Tv/ SHaooS ui^eaajp t+ir wovies '-Mor-^irJc, ¿//¡.l "______
ri.'*!*«*' 
f u«"l>

---------------------------------------------------

Faith No More
Techno‘Sexy MF
PrinceVideo
DJQuik
721-6n5
Mix-A-Lo
Nirvani
WorsMoment
DIVERSIONS
Music magazine provides unique SPIN on job
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
J had the toughest time decid­
ing what to wear the first day. I 
mean, think about it — SPIN is 
one of the biggest music maga­
zines in America, and I am the 
most easily impressed/star- 
struck person in the world. And 
of course I wanted to make a good 
first impression on all the SPIN 
edi.tor-gods,right?Nottoo trendy, 
not too crunchy, but not bland, 
either. Definitely not bland. And 
the only thing my boss had said 
about office attire was, “Oh, you 
can pretty much wear whatever. 
See.you Wednesday.” Great. Big 
hejp, dude.
After my initial panic (“They’re 
goftna eat me alive!”), I decided to 
forget about it and wear the one 
most essential of garments — a 
cloak of bravado. Iam not anyone’s 
bumpkin, thank you. So I got 
dressed, grabbed my bag, and 
stepped out into the bright New 
York morning.
The walk to the office took me 
through Union Square Park, and 
actually, it was a really nice day. 
I was flattered when someone 
stopped me on 17th Street and 
asked for directions to Broadway, 
ai}d I was even happier when I 
could tell them the way. It was 
shaping up to be an enjoyableday;
SPIN'S offices are located on 
18ffi Street, just west of Fifth 
Avenue. They’re on the 11 th floor 
of a fairly low-rent building (you 
carrtell by the speed of the eleva­
tor), and the first thing greeting 
you when you walk in is a sign the 
site of Wisconsin, a sign which 
gleefully sports the logo of SPIN 
magazine. A diminutive woman 
sits behind the front desk and 
says, “Hallo! Can I help you?” in
By ANDY VAUGHAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The 1992-1993 Carnegie Mel­
lon Drama season is upon us and 
as always great things can be 
expected. Its 78thseasonfeatures 
the-entertaining, the controver­
sial, the ingenious, and the un­
precedented.
The highlight of the season will 
be the production of The Life and 
Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby, 
a stage adaptation of the Charles 
Dickens novel. This spectacle will 
not only be the longest offering of 
the year — a whopping eight 
hours—but also be presented by 
the biggest cast, be organized by 
two directors, and make history 
by marking the first time that 
Carnegie Mellon drama faculty 
and Equity guest artists will per- 
form with students on stage.
Nicholas Nickleby will run No­
vember 14 through December 12. 
Since the show is lengthy, audi­
ences have the option of seeing 
the performance in two different 
parts at different times, or seeing 
the whole production with a din­
ner break in between.
The season’s first production 
will be Anton Chekhov’s master­
piece, The Seagull. A product of 
the Masters of Fine Arts and Di- 
rectinggraduate program (MFA), 
this show sets a precedent as the 
first time that an MFA presenta­
tion will be open to the general 
guBlic. The Seagull will open Sep­
tember 23 and close the 26.
Z Tartuffe, by Moliere, was a most
the coolest of British accents — 
an authentic one.
On this particular day in May, 
the day of my SP/Mrodufction 
(God, I am so witty!), I answer, 
“Yes, I’m an editorial intern. My 
name’s Megan.”
“Oh!” she says, then bellows in 
a voice that could probably wake 
the dead at any lesser elevation, 
“Mahk Eevahs! Meggan’s heah!” 
I keep smiling, since I am not 
quite sure what is going to hap­
pen next.
A man emerges from a door 
right down the hall, and I breathe 
a gargantuan sigh of relief be­
cause I am dressed only slightly 
more formally than he is. “Hi,” he 
said. “I’m Mark Evers.”
“Megan Dietz," I respond, ex­
tending my hand. He is as nice in 
person as he had been on the 
phone during the weeks of inter­
viewing, and I am glad.
That first day, I learned how to 
work the phones (say “SPIN, 
please hold" a lot), how . to use
their computer programs (push 
F3 if anything goes wrong), and 
how to speak to publicists (don’t 
ask — tell). I also learned the 
rudiments of fact-checking sto­
ries, which basically involves veri­
fying every fact in an article, from 
name spellings to whether or not 
a writer’s statements are, in fact, 
true. Most importantly, though, I 
learned that SPIN is put out by a 
bunch of people — not gods or 
giants or even dirtbags. Just cool, 
competent people worthy of re­
spect, not adoration.
The SPIN internship program 
is unique in tho amount of re­
sponsibility it gives to interns. At 
magazines like Rolling Stone, 
interns basically hang out at the 
copy machines all day, making 
copies and coffee for the rest of 
the staff. At SPIN, we got to do 
actual research for print—I even 
spoke with Spike Lee on the tele­
phone for one article we had ques­
tions about. We also put together 
the News FLASH page of the 
magazine, though our names may 
or may not appear in the byline. 
The interns at SPIN also have 
quite a bit of contact with the 
editorial staff —- one of us would 
often work directly with a senior 
editor on a project, and really get 
a feel for what that editor was 
doing.
The SPIN internship program 
is not unique, however, in that it 
is unpaid. This was tough for me, 
because I had to support myself, 
which I did by working both of 
the two most vile jobs known to 
man — telemarketing (insur­
ance, no less) and McDonald’s. 
But if you aren’t a poor schmuck 
who has to pay your own bills like 
I did, you should be okay. And 
there are perks to working at 
SPIN, like meeting semi-celobri- 
ties and acquiring lots of free 
CDs and concert tickets. I would 
estimate the number of bands I 
saw this summer at about 20, 
and tho number of semi-famous 
people I met or spoke to ut about 
eight, including Steve Isaacs of 
MTV, Chris Barron of tho Spin 
Doctors, and, of course, tho Edi­
tor-In-Chief of SPIN, Bob 
Guccione, Jr., who were all really 
nice people. However, to get back 
to my point about finances, Now 
York is expensive, but you can 
make it work if you shop around
and watch your money.
But living in New York, regard­
less of what anyone might say, is 
worth every cotton-picking 
penny. You want a two-dollar 
falafel sandwich? Walk 15 min-, 
utes and get one. You want to , I 
chill with some famous rock V:! 
roll people and stuff like that?! 
Hit CBGB’s after midnight or so, 
or hang out at the Scrap Bar.:; 
New York is, to put it simply, the; 
coolest place on Earth. And, al-; ’ 
though you can’t be stupid about;; 
crime, if you act like you know!! 
what you’re doing, people really ' 
won’t bother you. Confidence 
seems to be the only thing you 
need in New York, and if you’ve 
got it, you’re set.
Probably the best thing about:, 
working at SPIN this summer!, 
was the people I met. I have actu-!1 
ally written letters to some of!' 
them already, and I am, just so ¦ 
you know what a big deal this is, 
the worst person this side of the 
Mississippi when it comes to cor: - 
responding. Naturally, you’re, 
probably going to make friendS' 
wherever you go, but it’s somei. 
how easier in the city, where there’ ‘ 
are just so many people. Besides 
personal friends, I’ve also made ¦
quite a few “business” contacts-----
and hopefully thoy’ll romomber ¦; 
me when I come back asking fojc ; 
a job, bccauso I roally did try to ; 
bo momorablo.
1 guoss I just wholohoartedly ! 
support tho notion that everyone 
should take a summer and do • 
something crazy with it—lilco go 
to New York with $200 and no 
paying job —just to soo if it can ! 
bo done. It’s really quito a fooling 
of accomplishment when you ro- , 
surface in the fall, alive and ovofl 
well, at least for mo. And I havo a ! 
feeling that ifyou tried it, it might ! 
be worthwhile, too.
successful and controversial play. 
Attacking hypocrisy hiding be­
hind piety, this play’s witty sat­
ire and stark soberness will 
arouse and unsettle you. Tartuffe 
will run from February 18 
through March 6.
The season’s first musical of­
fering will be The Threepenny 
Opera, a melodious play by 
Bertolt Brecht with music by Kurt 
Weil. This is another MFA pro­
duction.
This collaborative masterpiece 
details the transition from fas­
cism to Nazism between the first 
and second world wars. Opening 
March 17 and closing March 20, 
The Threepenny Opera will have 
a very short run, so get your seats 
as soon as possible.
The Boys from Syracuse, a mu­
sical adaptation of Shakespeare’s 
A Comedy of Errors will be the 
season’s finale. Music by Richard 
Rogers and lyrics by Lorenz Hart 
couple with all the cleverness, 
facility, and ingenuity one has 
come to expect from the collabo­
ration.
The book The Boys From Syra­
cuse by George Abbott is funny 
enough to challenge the Shakes­
peare original. The Boys from 
Syracuse will run April 15 
through May 1.
The Carnegie Mellon Drama 
department’s ’92-’93 season 
promises to be one of the memo­
rable seasons ever.
Don’t miss out on the excite­
ment and entertainment the sea­
son has to offer. The opportunity 
to see such productions won’t 
last.
Call the Drama Box Office at 
x2407 for ticket information.
A Stranger Among Us bridges religious differences
By CHRISTIAN M. RESTIFO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The “fish out of water” idea has 
been used in all types of movies, 
especially detective/cop ones, 
since the beginning of film. Typi­
cally, the hardened streetwise po­
lice officer is assigned to a case 
involving a conflicting culture. 
Because of the beliefs of the cul­
ture, solving the case becomes 
rather difficult. Through the 
course ofthe movie, however, the 
experienced detective learns 
things about the culture, loses 
stereotypical views and comes to 
understand other people. Like­
wise, the people of the opposing 
culture provide the viewer with 
witty wisdom that explains the 
inner workings of the cop.
With this concept in mind, I 
was expectingA Stranger Among 
Us to be nothing more than a 
copy of Witness with Melanie 
Griffith replacing Harrison Ford 
and Hassidic Jews taking the 
place of Amish people. I was pleas­
antly surprised, however, to see a 
movie of fine quality examining 
how deeply held beliefs can clash.
Melanie Griffith plays Eden, a 
rogue city detective who is as­
signed to a missing person case 
after her partner (and lover) is 
injured in a shootout. Expecting 
it to be a simple open and shut 
case, Eden comes face to face with 
what she considers to be the odd 
culture of Hassidic Jews.
Convinced of the fact that the 
missing person stole some dia­
monds, Eden comes into conflict 
with the missing suspect’s best 
friend, played by Eric Thai. He 
firmly believes that his missing 
friend could never have run off 
with the diamonds because 
Hassidic Jews would never do 
such a thing.
Afterdiscoveringthe murdered 
body of the missing person, Eden 
determines that the murder had 
to be an inside job. She then goes 
undercover as a Jew returning to 
the religious life. She dyes her 
hair, switches to conservative 
clothing, and lives underthe care
of a rabbi.
As the movie progresses, the 
viewer, along with Eden, begins 
to learn many things about 
Hassidic Jews. For example, one 
learns that they must keep dairy 
and meat products in separate 
refrigerators. One alsoleams that 
they cover mirrors when some­
one dies so that they think of that 
person and not of themselves. 
Additionally, through her contact 
with the culture, Eden discovers 
the workings behind Hassidic 
beliefs in such areas as marriage, 
sex, dress, and custom.
As she begins this discovery 
process, Eden is at first very rude 
and insensitive. For example, in 
one scene, she offers a doughnut 
to an Hassidic Jew. He refuses 
mentioning that he has to eat 
only kosher food. Ridiculing him 
for not wanting to “break a little 
rule,” she gets a small glimpse at 
the depth and sincerity of his 
beliefs. Later on, however, she 
even starts to take issue with 
stereotypes of Jews made by her 
co-workers.
From their first meeting Eden 
develops a rather interesting re­
lationship with this man. After 
her first initial flirtations are 
brushed off coldly, Eden actually 
starts to become attracted to him. 
She reveals her strong feelings 
when she learns that he is to be 
married by arrangement.
Overall, A Stranger Among Us 
is a very entertaining and en­
lightening movie. The presen­
tation of Jewish beliefs and cus­
toms mixes well with Eden’s 
learning process, but the mys- 
tery is somewhat lacking until 
the end. Once the viewer finds 
out who the killer is, however, 
the movie achieves an intense­
ness created by the conflict be­
tween Hassidic beliefs and mod­
em day life as Eric Thai’s charac­
ter is forced to make an incred­
ibly difficult life-and-death deci­
sion.
The personal interaction also 
provides a well blended mix of 
humor, antagonism, and sorrow. 
In one rather amusing scene, Eric
Thai’s character informs Eden 
that she cannot drive him back to 
his home because custom forbids 
them to be together without an 
“escort.” Using her street smarts, 
Eden has him ride in the back 
seat, thereby ensuring that no 
“mischief” can occur. He com­
ments that he would have never 
thought of such a thing and that 
Eden has a smart mind. In a
issue with what was said. De­
pending on how the viewer per­
ceives the situation, either a very 
uncomfortableorrevealing scene 
emerges.
Go see A Stranger Among Us if 
you’re a fan of mystery or love 
stories. Not only will you learn 
something about a religion that 
may be foreign to you, you'll also 
be entertained.
rather unusual switch, he ad­
mits that he actually does “like 
her for her mind.”
Another interesting point of 
the movie is that it deals with 
the currently hot topic of sexual 
harassment. When Eden comes 
to work dressed conservatively 
for her undercover assignment, 
a partner makes rude comments. 
Quick on the return, Eden takes
graphic by Chad McDaniel
INSIDE: 
mini music 
reviews

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon »31 August 1992
PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE courtn
For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly 90 nations around the 
world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
the name of the country darkened on the map at the right.
e DmMRDgy)CR MmkUgM UM sgikB 
yCMkfmD ehfUym gMyC )Mg'M ms 
9gikBCfM cBgRCsUmE
.wlm/wiKu/y ppi/undi) 'i ii.w/w/ii; •/ :uti!w¡<>swt/iti/wr/
1
CONTINUITY
NEWS
SPORTS
INTERESTED?
ANNOUNCING
ENGINEERING
CONSTRUCTION
Meet with us this Wednesday Z 
at 5:30pm in Skiho Room 12.
. ;
il
DESIGN||
PROGRAMMING‘ ' •
MUSIC
HI
il
EDITORIALI
: '
TRAFFIC
ft
PUBLICITY?!
TECHNICAL
.
I1
MANAGEMENT
PRODUCTIONWRCTlj
BUSINESS 
ADVERTISING 
PETE GAZZERRO
rj
88*3fm Pittsburgh
a radio station. :
j!
A Positive Point About Breast Cancer.
Now we can see it before you can feel it. When it's no 
bigger than the dot on this page.
And when it’s 90% cur­able. With the best chance 
of saving the breast.The trick is catching it early. And that’s exactly 
what a mammogram can do.A mammogram is a sim­
ple x-ray thats simply the best news yet for detecting 
breast cancer. And saving lives.
If you’re over 35, ask your doctor about 
mammography.
Give yourself the 
chance of a lifetime.'“
AMERICAN <2 CANCER ? SOCIETY*
Tori Amos nails it on Crucify
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
Boa 37000 
MihjM'n DC 20013-700(1
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Special to The Tartan
After her first album was 
¦largely ignored, Atlantic record­
ing artist Tori Amos came back 
strongly with her current record 
Little Earthquakes. Earthquakes 
has generated several MTV Video 
Music Award nominations and 
two hit singles, “Silent All These 
•'Years” and “Crucify.”
-Now Atlantic has released Cru­
cify, a five-song EP that high­
lights Amos’spectacular folk-rock 
:.v6ice and keyboard work while 
.'giving her an opportunity to go 
after some unusual material. 
Crucify, like some other “sidecar” 
jEP releases that accompany ma­
jor albums, is evenly split be­
tween Amos originals off Earth­
quakes and previously unreleased 
.covers, including a remarkable 
rendition of Nirvana’s grunge 
anthem “Smells Like Teen Spirit.”
The EP kicks off with its title 
track, a remix of “Crucify,” the 
second single off Earthquakes. 
Fans of the radio version or the 
video will quickly recognize this 
mix, as it was used for the single. 
While the album version of “Cru- 
rcify” has more reverb and some
• annoying woodblock percussion 
'on the choruses, both versions
¦ are listenable.
; Amos’ lyrics are especially poi­
gnant here; her lament of an 
; unappreciated woman (“I’ve been 
; raising up my hands/Drive an- 
, other nail in/Just what God needs/ 
! One more victim”) is powerful, 
. with a strong chorus hook. The
¦ video, currently in rotation on 
MTV, features Amos in an ironic
; traditional “mom” costume (apron 
; & hair ribbon) that neatly points 
; out the target of the song.
The second song, “Winter,” is
another track off Earthquakes, 
this time a filial love song be­
tween a father and daughter. 
Softer and sweeter than “Cru­
cify,” the song shows off Amos’ 
upper range and her piano play­
ing to great effect.
The last three songs on Cru­
cify are all covers, just Amos and 
piano; the first is the Rolling 
Stones’ “Angie.” Amos sings it 
almost painfully slowly, drag­
ging out the choruses as much 
as she possibly can. Still, she 
manages to sound enough like 
Mick Jagger to make the song 
relatively familiar and acces­
sible.
That can’t be said for the next 
track, her cover of “Smells Like 
Teen Spirit.” With some heavy 
airplay, this soft acoustic cover 
of the Seattle iiber-tune is be­
ginning to get recognized, but
Global warming. Destruction of the rain forests. Toxic waste. These aren’t the legacies we 
wanted from the “environmental” President. Urge George Bush to attend the U.N. Earth 
Summit in Brazil in June. Right now, the United States is the only major industrial power 
refusing to do its part. Ask the President to stop America’s role as leading producer of 
greenhouse gases. Tell him to support the global treaty for reducing carbon dioxide 
emissions, ban the exportation of toxic waste, and save the world’s rain forests. The 
President is the only person who can effectively lead the struggle for our planet’s future.
NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATIONSend coupon to: President George Bush, The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW. Washington, D.C. 2050
September 4-17
"IT'S PURE COMIC BLISS...
it has enough drama, sex, politics, thrills 
and laughs to stuff a dozen movies."
— Peter Travers, ROLUNG STONE
INSIGHTFUL, THOUGHT-PROVOKING FUN."
— John Anderson, NEW5DAY
it’s still a jar to hear Kurt Cobain’s 
infamous incomprehensible lyr- 
BWG coming out clear and well- 
enunciated from Amos’ mouth.
It’s hard to imagine how the 
two versions could be more dif­
ferent, and yet Amos’works well; 
the only problem is that now that 
we can understand the words to 
the song, they still don’t make 
the slightest bit of sense. “A mu­
latto, an albino/A mosquito, my 
libido”—leads one to believe that 
Cobain knew what he was doing 
when he sang it as though under­
water.
The last song on the EP, a soft 
cover of Led Zepplin’s “Thank 
You,” neatly closes out the al­
bum. For those who are inter­
ested in Tori Amos but don’t want 
to shell out for the full album, 
Crucify is an excellent alterna­
tive.
STER
IBOX
6r7l T7l 6leNTcl9 Phshib A 057 Gnerc 6rn1 S51oe7w oc5-TSNr57 ra essgyTNS2 2’USAe77ln 65Tc 9oen-r7u ucewX9 <1579Nlc r7 e G5®° Mtsc Bv neTcrl e7-lc957 Dora* Or oUi’!mi’d1rSAeln S5TnNlcK asy 6mfmU rB uceAe1 ATNSAr7u9 s9y-9999f CeMee lUPbCPMliR
WumTK & Paiono» By 9oen-r7u ucewURTI Itri & rtKHJnMu) K„ srAli/INü VÿKAY
Prcxxoi) By 057 Gne0c -'mMiGd7rS^ Gc5516rln- P
PMIMaiftJ re*rogBii .-
JHod THod 
JdAlr­ds
F I L M REPERTOR V
222 Craft Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213
621-66017:30 and 9 pm $4.00 person
pE 1mVgf mPfUyiDkifmD OfgRiyk gh kBUs 
MmkUgM isCR UM kBC OfgRiykUgM gh 
yUPmfCkkCsE
WE e OgDUy© gh skfUyk DCPmD sCPfCPmkUgM 
gh kBC fmyCsE
jE 7CUPB.gfUMP MmkUgM kg kBC Cmsk 'BUyB 
.gfRCfs rMRUmM 5yCmME
IE ngymkUgM gh kBUs MmkUgM fCDmkUdC kg 
yDgsCsk gyCmME
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a 
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering 
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.
(^fuulÿ^idpyQfm
(412) 441-4444 
S405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, l>A 15232 Toll Free 800-767-8483

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, September 3
Kafka
_ This is the latest film from director Steven Soderbergh. Soderbergh takes an eery look at the life of about Franz Kafka, famous for his novel, 
Metamorphosis.Academy Award winning best actor for Reversal 
of Fortune, Jeremy Irons, stars as the great novel­ist. Irons is best known for his roles in The French 
Lieutenant’s Woman, in which he co-starred with Meryl Streep, and Brideshead Revisited, in he stars with Sir Lawrence Olivier, Sir John Gielgud, Anthony Andrews, and Claire Bloom. The film concentrates on the 1919 period that Kafka spent in Prague, Czechoslovakia.Ifyou like art films, Kafka, Jeremy Irons, Czecho­slovakia, 1919, Acadamy Award winners, the French Guy’s girlfriend, or any combination thereof, this film is for you. Surely, it’s worth a dollar to see an Academy Award winning actor.At 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight.
Friday, September 4
Rambling Rose
If a film has two actresses nominated for Acad­emy Awards, what does that tell us? It tells us that 
Rambling Rose is pretty good movie, and that it’s well worth the measely little dollar you have to pay to get in.The two actresses mentioned above, real-life mother and daughter, Diane Ladd and Laura Dem, are simply fabulous in thi3 tale of family life in a small Southern town. Diane Ladd plays mother to Lucas Haas, who is coming of age in this film. Laura Dern plays Rose, the sensuous “governess” who enchants the innocent Lucas Haas and his not-so-innocent father, played by Robert Duvall.At 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, September 5
The Princess Bride
Here’s a lighthearted fairy tale/adventure with a bevy of stars, Rodents of Unusual Size, brilliant swordplay, and lots of laughs. The bevy of stars includes Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Christopher Sarandon, Mandy Patinkin, Christopher Guest, Andre the Giant, and Billy Crystal and Carol Kane in cameo appearances as Miracle Max and his wife.The plot encompasses the kidnapping of But­tercup, the most beautiful woman in the world, by criminals hired by her husband-to-be Prince Humperdink and her rescue and romance with the farmboy/ dread pirate Westley. They overcome the fire swamp, rodents of unusual size, lightning sand, and the evil six-fingered Count Rugen for a fantastic happy ending.It is well worth your dollar to just to the dazzling swordfight between Inigo and Westley and Inigo’s repetitive revenge on Count Rugen (“Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die”).At 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight.
Sunday, September 6
Godzilla vs. Megalon
Need I say more? Well, I suppose I should. Think of it this way, it only costs you a buck — and with the usual high quality of Godzilla movie special effects, you’ll at least get a good laugh over them. Lots of unintentional laughs here. Did I mention that it only costs a dollar?If you’re in the mood for some cheesy special effects, Godzilla vs. Megalon is the movie for you. Starring Katsuhiko Sasaki, Hiroyuki Kawase, Yutaka Hayashi, and Robert Dunham, this film gives you the title billing of Godzilla and Megalon, plus their tag team partners, a nameless robot superhero who is Godzilla’s partner and Gigan who is Megalon’s partner. I wonder if the fights are fixed in Godzilla’s favor, kinda like professional wrestling.At 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight.
By MERON LANGSNER AND TARA SEMAN
MINI MUSIC 
REVIEWS
BILLY GOAT
BUSH ROAMING MAMMALS kkkk
In an ideal world, there would 
be no turquoise cars, Mario 
Cuomo would be president, and 
bands like Billy Goat would ride 
the airwaves to stardom. But 
since cooler-than-you rebels and 
screeching divas are all the rage 
now, I guess you’ll have to settle 
for popping this puppy into your 
stereo and getting off on your 
own bad self.
And get off you will, because 
these fine Texas folks funk it up 
so big and crazy on their major- 
label debut that you’ll be hanker­
ing to holler “yee-hah!” like Luke 
Duke all night long. Tunes like 
“Flake” are fresh and so kicking 
that it's a wonder you can get 
them over the counter. “Dog’s 
Heroin” is a seductive, tribal 
groove of the highest order, but 
with a bonus — a chorus riff that 
breaks open like a big pinata full 
of noise and really blows the old 
skirt up. The band even humbly
courtesy Elektra Entertainment 1992
submits a plan for societal heal­
ing in the funky-ass crowd rouser 
“Clothes Off” (“Clothes are the 
root of all evil/Legalize nudity 
and be a boll weevil”). Though the 
record as a whole is strong, I 
would suggest that you steer clear 
of the last two tracks; they’re not 
bad the first time, but after a few 
listens, they can wear on the 
nerves.
Overall, this album is funky, 
grooving, and just generally a 
whole lot of fun, from the music to 
the lyrics to the mixing-bo ard frol­
icking. I mean, come on — any 
album with a song called “Fuck
More Bitch Less” has got to be 
worth a listen. So, if you’ve got 
some groove in your heart and 
you feel the need to jump around 
and get stupid, you’ve found your­
self a band. Billy Goat won’t shake 
your world, but they will make it 
a little more fun to be in.
— Megan Dietz
ERASURE
ABBAESQUE**k
Slowly but surely Andy Bell 
and Vince Clark of Erasure are 
shedding their generic musical 
style skin and emerging as color­
ful innovators once again. It’sjust 
too bad that it took remaking 
four,ABBA cover songs to do it on 
the latest release Abbaesque.
The first single on the album 
“Lay All Your Love on Me” has 
been covered by other groups such 
as Information Society, but Era­
sure adds more energy to the song. 
It’s not that the conventional 
“bleeps and bloops” of Vince 
Clark’s synthesizer are so embel­
lishing — it’s the emotion pour­
ing from Andy Bell’s lips as he 
sings. It sounds kind of corny, but 
Bell just knows how to capture 
the right mood for a song; ABBA 
may as well have been a bubble 
gum band in comparison.
“Take a Chance on Me” is a 
catchy tune that displays 
Erasure’s fun side. The song is 
playful and has a great dance 
beat. The only drawback is a ri­
diculous reggae section that 
sounds like someone had been 
inhaling too much helium during 
the recording session. Guys, stay 
away from things you can’t mas­
ter.
“S.O.S.” is the mellow let down 
ofthe album. The one place where 
Clark should have utilized his 
synthesizer he declined and 
settled for bland keyboard play­
ing. Oh well, it’s only been a year 
since Erasure’s Chorus — you 
can’t expect the world from the 
duo.
Erasure emerges as a poten­
tially good addition to the world 
of techno with its version of 
“Voulez-vous.” The group has 
done some tinkering with techno 
on the B-sides of their single cuts 
off of Chorus, but “Voulez-vous” 
is the most commercial product
yet. This at least opens the doors 
for new fans.
The album is a little overpriced 
since there are only four cuts on 
it, but if you have the money, it’s 
not a bad buy. The album would 
have been worth a little more to 
hear a remake of ABBA’s “Danc­
ing Queen,” but you can’t have it 
all.
— Marni Borek
UTAH SAINTS
SOMETHING GOOD kkk
I had my first semi-cat fight 
this summer when I yanked the 
last copy of Utah Saints off the 
record store shelf. I couldn’t un­
derstand why the girl who had 
attached herself to the CD box I 
was carrying was so intent on 
purchasing the group's first com­
pilation release. I thought per­
haps that this was her way of 
releasing her pent-up aggres­
sions.
Anyway, after winning the 
battle, I brought home my prize 
and listened to the seven track 
release. And I have only one word 
for this album. Adrenaline. With 
sampling and basic techno line, 
the Utah Saints are bound to 
keep club-goers happy and ener­
getic. But they really don’t offer 
anything any other techno group 
doesn’t.
The first cut off the album is 
the title track. It contains sam­
pling from a Kate Bush song and 
can be thought of as tho Utah 
Saint’s anthom. It's a big song 
somewhat structured along tho 
same linos as KLF’s more techno- 
ish songs.
Another track off the album is 
“What Can You Do For Me?" 
which contains a haunting 
sample of Annie Lennox from tho 
Eurythmic’s song “There Must 
Be an Angel.” The vocals envelop 
the beat the Utah Saints have set 
up, producing a trance-inducing 
dance cut.
“Trans Atlantic Flight” is one 
of those conventional dance tracks 
that all the techno-rave clubs are 
playing these days. It contains a 
sampling of resounding organ 
sounds and a handful of seagull 
cries. A nice touch.
The rest of the tracks are mixes 
of the two main songs “Some­
thing Good” and “What Can You 
Do For Me?” Usually mixes are
the better longer versions of the 
songs, but Utah Saints failed to 
embellish the songs with any­
thing new or different, so the 
songs end up being monotonous.
After listening to the CD seven 
or eight times, I have decided 
that scratching tho girl in the 
record storo just wasn’t worth it. 
Utah Saints isn’t quite worth the 
fight yet. Next time I’ll know not 
to keep my guard up.
— Marni Borek
courtesy Elektra Entertainment 1992 
OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS:
TOAD THE WET SPROCKET
FEAR
SONIC YOUTH
DIRTY
HELMET
MEANTIME
***** SUPREME 
**** EXCELLENT 
*** COOL 
** FAIR 
? FORGET IT
Joe Bob returns amid fanfare
/OE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE-IN 
Ma /oe BoM Briggs
I spent the holiday s up in Tulsa 
visiting the Oklahoma Briggses, 
the ones that divorce their cous­
ins so they can marry their sis­
ters, and on the first day I was 
there it got down to a 37-below 
triple-dead-houndog wind-chill 
factor, and 16 members of teh 
family lost fingers.
Anyhow, if you’ve never been to 
Oklahoma, then you may not re­
alize that 1) they have ice storms 
up there every year, 2) they don’t 
have any de-icing highway equip­
ment, and 3) they don’t ever buy 
any de-icing equipment because 
“it’s not like we have ice storms 
every year.”
So what they do instead is they 
wait until 3,000 cars have plunged 
into riv«rs (no big deal, since an 
Oklahoma river is only six inches 
deep), and then they have bald- 
headed guys go on TV and give 
out “driving safety tips.” Here 
they are, in case you ever need to 
drive over one of your relatives in 
Oklahoma.
Oklahoma DrivingTip Numero 
Uno: When your car goes into a 
skid, and your car has no doors or 
windows, stick your left foot out 
the side and use the toe as a 
rudder. Steer teh car in the direc­
tion of where you want to jump 
out.
Oklahoma Tip #2: When an old 
lady comes to a dead stop on a 
hill, so nobody can get passed 
her, offer to help by putting “ex­
tra traction” in her tires. Then 
shoot em all out with a deer rifle.
DrivingTip #3: When traveling 
with more than eleven fat people 
inyour station wagon, assign the 
heftiest beef critters to teh rear 
axle area. If the station wagon 
actually pops a wheelie, leave 
Uncle Benny in the snow. Tell 
him fat people can survive up to 
three weeks with no food or wa­
ter.
Numero-Four-o: If you have 
trouble climbing a mountain road, 
you are lost. You are in Arkansas. 
Take precautions to avoid being 
eaten by hillbillies.
Numero Five-o: If your car 
starts tumbling end over end, you 
are driving a Yugo.
Numero Six-o: If you feel your- 
selfbecoming wet, cold and sticky, 
you have forgotten your car.
Numero Seven-0: Ifyou become 
alarmed by the number of 
stranded, injured and dead people 
on the highway, you have forgot/ 
ten you’re in Oklahoma.
Speaking ofhorribly disfigured 
family members, I finally found a 
theater showing “The Haunting 
ofMorella,” the latest Edgar Allan 
Poe flick produced by drive-in 
king Roger Corman, who started 
it all in the early sixties when he 
made “House of Usher” with 
Vincent Price. This time Rog hired 
up-and-coming drive in director, 
Jimbo “Show me your breasts” 
Wynerski, and this may be his 
best flick yet. Leave it to Jimbo to 
find the latent lesbianism in 
Edgar Allan Poe. My kinda guy!
David McCallum is the “Man 
From Dunkin Donuts” as he 
moons around his Gothic man­
sion with a five-day growth of 
beard and a pair of Ray-bans, 
haunted by the memory of his 
dead wife, who had metal stakes
driven through her eyes 18 years 
ago after she drank virgin blood 
and tried to kill a baby girl. What’s 
really got him ticked off, though, 
is that now the baby girl wants to 
be just like her mom.
He can’t control her. She’s been 
hanging around out at Mom’s 
tomb with aKen-doll lawyer from 
town, unaware that her evil les­
bian tutor is feeding the house 
servants to mom’s glowing skel­
eton and getting her ready for the 
ultimate makeover. Mom wants 
to live again in baby daughter’s 
body and show daddy the real 
meaning of the word “hen­
pecked.”
In other words, we’ve got the 
teenager’s ultimate nightmare. 
She doesn’t just tell you you can’t 
wear makeup. She wants to be 
your makeup.
Thirteen breasts. Eight dead 
bodies. Brandingiron through the 
eyes. Cross-nailing. Multiple 
throat-slitting. Virgin blood- 
bathing. Blood-sucking. Nude 
back-stabbing. Devil sex. Ax inb 
chest. Exploding casket. Explod­
ing crypt. GratuitiouB support- 
ing-actress skinny-dipping. 
Witchcraft fu. Lesbo fu. Jugular 
fu. Drive-in Academy Award 
nominations for David McCall­
um, for sucking opium and say­
ing “I still cannot bring myself to 
utter that name”; Lana Clarkson, 
as the evil lesbian tutor, for say­
ing “One more feeding, my love, 
and you'll be fully resurrected” 
and Nicole Eggert, in the dual 
role of Lenora and her dead 
mother, Morelia, for saying “My 
flesh needs sustenance, and your 
life shall fill that need.”
Three and a half stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
A defense against cancer can be cooked up in your kitchen.
There is evidence that diet and 
cancer are related. Follow these 
modifications in your daily diet to 
reduce chances of getting cancer.
1. Eat more high-fiber foods such 
as fruits and vegetables and whole- 
grain cereals.
2. Include dark green and deep 
yellow fruits and vegetables rich in 
vitamins A and C.
3. Include cabbage, broccoli, 
brussels sprouts, kohlrabi and 
cauliflower.
4. Be moderate in consumption 
of salt-cured, smoked and nitrite- 
cured foods.
5. Cut down on total fat intake 
from animal sources and fatS and 
oils.
6. Avoid obesity.
7. Be moderate in consumption 
of alcoholic beverages,
No one faces cancer alone.
I
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'

---------------------------------------------------

Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery will 
display the works of Adrienne Salinger 
from Wednesday, September 2 to Sat­
urday, September 26. For more infor­
mation, call 681-5449.
Until I’m Not Here Anymore, written 
by Sam Hazo, will be presented from 
Tuesday through Friday at 8 pm at the 
Fulton Theatre (101 Sixth Street). 
Ticket prices range from $12 to $22; 
student discounts are available. For 
ticket information, call 333—7328.
The women’s soccer team competes 
at the Bethany College Tournament on 
Saturday and Sunday at 11 am.
The women’s cross country team
competes against California Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania on Saturday at 
11:45 am.
The men’s cross country team com­
petes against California University of 
Pennsylvania on Saturday at 11 am.
The volleyball team competes in the 
River City Tournament at Marietta 
College on Friday and Saturday at 4 
pm and 9 am.
1 Orion Pictures Corporation
-m’UCD "GfiMg umM«*K kBC mMPCDK Pm«Cs DgMPUMPD© mk 1mfDgM "9gDdUCP -g’’mfkDM*K kBC ’gfkmD BC Bms hmDDCM rM DgdC 'UkBK rM m syCMC 
hfg’ 2D’ 2CMRCfs• Wings of Desire, 'BUyB ODm©s mk kBC oUkks.ifPB oDm©BgisC gM NBifsRm© mk ?—IL O’E/ ^Lectures
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Howards End plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse nightly at 7 pm through 
Wednesday, September 31.
Koyaanisqatsi plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse on Monday at 7:30 and 9:30 
pm.
Ferngully: The Last Rainforest plays 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Tues­
day at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
The Commitments plays at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse on Wednesday at 7:30 
and 9:40 pm.
Kafka plays at DII2210 on Thursday. 
Shows are at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Europa, Europa plays at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse on Thursday at 7:30 
pm only. Wings of Desire plays at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse on Thursday at 
9:40 pm only.
Rambling Rose plays at DH 2210 on 
Friday. Shows are at 6, 8,10, and mid­
night.
Monster in a Box plays at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse nightly at 7:30 and 
9:30 pm from Friday through Thurs­
day, September 17.
A Womanys Tale plays at Filmmakers 
at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) from 
Friday through Wednesday, Septem­
ber 9. Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Princess Bride plays on Saturday in 
DH 2210 at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Godzilla vs. Megalon plays at DH 
2210 on Sunday at 6, 8, 10, and mid­
night.
Foreign Language Tables, in con­
junction with the Modern Languages 
Department, will be held each week in 
the Morewood Gardens Cafeteria, ex­
cept where noted. Mondays: La Table 
Française (French) from 12:30 to 1:30 
pm. Tuesdays: Russkii Chas (Russian) 
from noon to 1:30 pm. Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Española (Spanish) from 11:30 to 
1 pm. BentooLunch o nihongo de (Japa­
nese) at noon in BH 160. Please order 
for the Japanese table Tuesdays in BH 
160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch (German) from 11:30 am 
to 1 pm.
The Chess Club meets every Monday 
and Thursday in Skibo 201 (or ask at 
the Information desk) from 7-10 pm. 
Learn to play or practice your skills 
with informal games.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business 
meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at the Friends Meeting House, 
and the cost is $3. For more informa­
tion, call 276-1768 in the evenings.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Ok­
inawan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Co­
ed Service Fraternity, is sponsoring a 
voter registration drive on Tuesday in 
front of Doherty Hall (rain location, 
inside Doherty). Information will also 
be available on how to register in your 
home state. Whether you’ve just turned 
18 or want to change your registration 
to Pennsylvania, stop by and make a 
difference in November!
The Roman Catholic Oratory in­
vites all students to a free barbecue on 
Wednesday from 5 to 8 pm. Groups will 
meet in front of Skibo at 5 pm and 6 pm 
to go to The Oratory. In addition to food 
and fellowship, The Oratory will pro­
vide information on additional activi­
ties at the barbecue. For more informa­
tion, call The Oratory at 681-3181.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ- 
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
Chabad House welcomes all students. 
Join us for Chabad House barbecue on 
Thursday at 5:15 pm. Meet in the Skibo 
parking lot.
Chabad House is hosting Buck Night 
on Saturday. For more details, call 
683-7770
Questioning? Positively sure? Come 
to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women’s 
Discussion Group for friendly talk and 
fun. Meetings will now be held on Sat­
urdays at 7 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center.
Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O), the
national co-ed service fraternity, holds 
meetings every Sunday at 7:30 pm in 
Breed Hall (MM 103). All members of 
the campus community are invited to 
attend.
12:30 pm in Skibo 39. Weekend masses 
are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 
10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main 
auditorium. For more information, call 
The Oratory at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the corner of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in their chapel 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Hank Suhr at 621—4361.
David Humphrey will present the 
first lecture in the Art Department Fall 
Lecture Series on Tuesday in DH 2315 
at 5 pm. Lectures are free and open to 
the public. For more information, call 
268-2409.Steelers
NBC oUkks.ifPB 9kCCDCfs ODm© 
kBC AgiskgM 5UDCfs kBUs 9iMRm©E 
SBCy) ©gif Nz DUskUMP hgf kU’C 
mMR yBmMMCDE
For more information on all Carnegie 
Mellon sporting events, call Bruce 
Gerson, the Sports Information Direc­
tor, at x3087.
The football team hosts Juniata Col­
lege on Saturday at 7 pm in Gesling 
Stadium.
The women’s tennis team plays 
Frostburg State University with 
Waynesburg College on Saturday at 1 
pm.
Time and money:
a powerful combination to help 
stop urgent problems in our 
community from growing.
Thanks for your generosity.
TMU.CR 2m©
The best investment in your hometown
Phipps Conservatory currently has 
Fabric Gardens, an international exhi­
bition of quilted fabric art from Expo 
‘90 in Osaka, Japan, on display through 
Monday, September 7. Call 622-6915 
for ticket information and exhibit hours.
FIL FMREMP TLOVSaLt turadttdSPt ySR dEt ,MOLPNMR MPN oSv eSmuOd 
tLVEdSPtb kLPN ,MOLPNMR SR oSv eSmuOd turadttdSPt ESi FIL FMREMPB 
lEEPb ,MOLPNMRB pSv !CB ,MRPLsdL :LOOSP hPdnLRtdEgB edEEtruRsIB el 
!wJ!;b cR tLPN VMamut aMdO ES ,MOLPNMR ’NdESRB FIL FMREMPB kHdrS fPyS 
-LtHb .Su VMP MOtS NRSm turadttdSPt ndM lmmOLkIMRL dP EIL NRSm ySONLRt 
dP EIL FMREMPWt tLRnLRB kHdrS ASPL SR OLMnL gSuR turadttdSPt dP EIL 
,MOLPNMR ’NdESR't aMdOrSv dP EIL FMREMP SyydVL dP kHdrS RSSa 50. 
eOLMtL OdadE turadttdSPt ES ydyEg TSRNt SR OLttb -LMNOdPL dt 5 ma EIL 
FIuRtNMg rLySRL EIL PLvE dttuLb eOMVLaLPE dt PSE suMRMPELLN& dE dt 
NLmLPNLPE SP tmMVLb cRdsdPMO oSv eSmuOd MPN ,MOLPNMR LPERdLt VMPPSE 
rL RLEuRPLNb
Shabkat Shalom! For your Shabbat 
plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at
Chris: “Sure, Bob, just spit the 
leftover stuff into my mouth!”
The Bar-B-Q for Apathy, men­
tioned in The Natrat, was can­
celled due to lack of response.
ARGHARGHARGH How’s 
‘Schlag? and your mother?
Remember to leave a margin of 
time for roommate’s coming back 
early.
Buttspeak ... the language many 
men speak.
— One who would know
Fishy, Fishy, Fishy ... wherever 
could he be ...
Such a nice little fishy.
Lee —
Ride the Bull!!
Two is my favorite number.
That’s sports and I am outta here.
— Alim
Pankaj, the Freshman wanna-be
Dead puppies aren’t much fun.
R: ‘“She’s lost some weight.”
D: “She must have started spitting.”
Where did that helicopter come 
from?
Pankaj says, “I am the Pope.”
Observe closely, Ed Gruberman: 
BOOT to the head ... THUMP!
Mom, it tastes like Robitussin.
And he would go wherever I did go.
What about a kiss, boy?
Why not start her off with a simple 
kiss?
H —
Hey! We’re SENIORS! Why doesn’t 
it feel any different yet?
MK
It doesn’t matter because she 
thinks you’re a goober anyway.
Tim —
Q How’s your pooper?
To the entire Orientation staff— 
Everyone did an amazing job! 
Playfair rules!
Ours goes 24 hours a day.
Yoda claims it‘s his.
Feel it flow through your fingers.
Virtual reality has nothing on 
Calvin.
— Suzie
Theodore is our Private Dancer.
To all who are wondering:
Yes, we’re still “just friends.”
— Dave & Ellen
“The problem is... women, and the 
solution is ... Arf! Millie.”
— Simbush
Instead of “How ‘bout those meal 
plans?” “How ‘bout that Univer­
sity Center?”
