,e, . Se/jafe Kills AABH tartan on Second Try!
February 20, 1973 Volume 73 number 19
Ü
Senate Seeks Face Lift 
in March Election
by Steven Correll
Ï
Determined to avoid a repetition of 
the confusion and voter apathy that 
spoiled last semester’s Student Government 
elections, SG leaders promised better 
publicity and better organization for the 
new vote on March 14 and 15.
“We want to get accross to every 
potential senator that he can easily get his 
^ name on the ballot,” says Gary Crosbie, 
head of publicity for the election, 
suggesting that any prospective candidate 
should stop by Skibo information desk or 
GSIA for a petition blank and a pamphlet 
explaining Student Senate and its elections.
Crosbie emphasized that the up­
coming elections could give Senate a new 
face. In addition to the usual senate and 
y college council seats, the presidency of SG 
is up for grabs, and incumbent Mike Garl 
will not run for reelection. And anyone 
elected to Senate is a contender for senate 
chairman and senate treasurer, offices 
appointed by vote of the Senate itself. 
Present chairwoman Leslie Bram will not 
run for reelection, and Senate has operated 
without a treasurer since last December.
If the outgoing president and chair­
woman have their way, more than the 
usual number of Senate seats could change 
hands. Garl and Bram, citing the question­
able conduct of last November’s election, 
have asked all the senators elected then to 
resign voluntarily and run again, even 
though their terms do not end until nexi
semester. (Last Tuesday, however, Garl 
announced that he had so far received only 
one resignation.)
The last elections, held on November 
13 and 14, were marred by inconsistant 
voting requirements and sporadic removal 
of polling tables from one location to 
another. In line with recent trend, only 
500 students voted, a turnout that Crosbie 
considers disappointing. (In spring 
elections a year ago, about 600 students 
voted.) Senate in fact passed a resolution 
suggesting the election be considered in­
valid, but the Election Appeal Board later 
refused to do so.
Crosbie explained several new 
procedures designed to promote a fairer 
election. Polls will be open from 9 am to 5 
pm on both days. Students need show only 
their CMU ID cards. Since no voter regis­
tration is required, poll staffers must check 
each voter’s name on a master list to pre­
vent multiple voting. To speed this process, 
each student’s name will be listed at only 
one of four polling places. CIT/MIS majors 
will vote in Doherty Hall, CFA' majors in 
Fine Arts, Graduates in the Kiltie Cafe, and 
H&SS and others in Baker Hall.
Crosbie said anyone who “gets made 
about things and writes letters to the 
editor” should consider running for office 
and, when asked to predict whether the 
election would be a success, replied, “I 
think that if it gets across that Student 
Government really wants to reform itself, 
we’ll get the people we need to run it 
well.”____________________________
/ Architecture: 
Irrational or Rational?
by Kathy Knoblach
Dr. Howard Saalman, CMU Andrew 
Mellon Professor of Architecture, 
presented his second lecture in a series 
sponsored by the College of Fine Arts, 
Wednesday evening in the Fine Arts 
Faculty Room.
“Irrational Architecture” was the 
topic, and Dr. Saalman presented slides 
illustrating rational and irrational archi­
tecture from antiquity to modern times.
Dr. Saalman stressed that the partici­
pation and experience of the individual 
were important parts of the Dionysiac 
religions, as such, where the natural nature 
is unbound as the individual attempts to 
explain his existance, i.e. maintain sanity.
He contrasted the mystic religions; their 
intermingling of natural. and human 
importance with the clarity and order of 
Roman spiritual expression. Dr. Saalman 
explained how the growing influence of the 
theatre was reflected in architecture Ss 
“the play becomes more and more the 
thing”, as a focus for a people’s immediate 
excitement.
Dr. Saalman spoke of how the 
organization of a building can project the 
“rational order of things into a different 
sphere” of irrationality. Complexity in the 
interrelationship of forms prevents
* absorption of a whole, creating a sense of 
uncertainty which results in mystery.
Dr. Howard Saalman, Mellon Professor 
of Architecture spoke on "irrational 
Architecture. Photo by Frank Stein
“Total mystical unity is never rational in 
nature”.
Dr. Saalman spoke of the 
irrationality of the movement of high 
Renaissance as seen through the work of 
Michelangelo. Michelangelo’s architecture 
projects “challenge the rational fellow” by 
presenting him with equally vexing 
decisions and distractions. This statement 
of “what man is: struggling forces that 
come to no conclusion”.
Irrational architecture was presented 
as man’s attempt to define human ex­
perience in comparison with rational archi­
tecture representing a cold clear order of 
things.
Dr. Saalman stated that we must 
admire aspirants of architecture. Archi­
tecture exists in an extremely complex 
world for we are rational and irrational at 
the same time and architecture is a state­
ment of this.
by Steven Correll
Last week Student Senate passed 
Mike Garl’s proposal amending its con­
stitution to replace the memberless 
Academic Affairs Board with a standing 
committee of senators and to abolish the 
elected office of Director of Academic 
Affairs.
But it took two votes to do it. After 
the first roll-call vote (20 to 7) fell one 
short of the three-fourths majority needed 
for passage of the amendment, debate 
turned to a motion concerning the 
activities fee. John Holobinko, current 
Director of Academic Affairs and an 
opponent of the amendment, then left the 
meeting. But later, Senator Mark Green 
asked Senate Chairwoman Leslie Bram to 
hold another vote since t^o senators had 
come into the meeting after the first one. 
This time, with Holobinko absent,-Senate 
reversed itself and passed the amendment 
21 to 7, abolishing Holobinko’s job.
Another senator then asked for yet 
another vote on the issue, but Senate 
rapidly adjourned before it could be taken.
Told of the actions afterwards, Holo­
binko said, “As I’ve stated before, Senate 
acts hastily and erratically many times, and 
this is just another example.” Holobinko 
gave “personal matters” as his reason for 
leaving the meeting.
Dean Swank, ex-officio member of 
Senate, voted for the amendment both 
times. Bram, who could have changed the 
outcome of the first vote, did not vote
either lime.__________________
CMU Soprano 
aims 
for the heights
by Debbie Siegel
On February 11th, district auditions 
were held at CMU for the Metropolitan 
Opera. The music department was proud to 
announce the results of the competition. 
The Virginia Heinz Award which is first 
place, was won by Mrs. Mary Ann Seibel 
(Doody-she uses her maiden name), age 28 
and a soprano. Mrs. Seibel is not a student 
at CMU, but has been taking private lessons 
with Professor Beatrice Kreb of the Music 
Department. From Verdi’s “Forza Del 
Destino” Mrs. Seibel sang “Pace, Pace Mio 
Dio” and competed against 18.
Lynne Beckstrom, a mezzo soprano, 
age 25, is a graduate student at CMU and 
came in third place. She is a student of 
Professor Lee Cass. Mrs. Seibel and Miss 
Becstrom will attend the Great Lakes 
Regional auditions on March 4th in Cleve­
land. There are four steps which the per­
former must take to reach the National 
Finals which are held in the Metropolitan 
Opera House in New York City on March 
25th this year. In the process of going 
through the various steps, scholarship 
money is presented. Last year, Jean Bradel 
who was studying for her masters at CMU 
reached the semi-finals in New York City.
The auditions began in 1955 when 
the National Metropolitan Opera Council 
was founded. It was organized in the dis­
trict city of Pittsburgh by the husband of 
Professor Ruth Topping and she has con­
tinued the program with her co-chairman, 
Mrs. Richard Hillman and Mrs. Ross Cappe. 
In addition to other winners Margret 
Stewart, a Lyric Soprano, age 21, won an 
honorable mention. She also studies under 
Professor Cass.
Leslie Bram , chairwoman of the Student Senate 
commented on the dual vote on the Academic 
Affairs Committee.
Mark Green explained afterwards 
that he called for the second vote because 
he felt “the prevailing sentiment of the 
Senators--that we should make the Affairs 
Board into a standing internal committee- 
was being impeded by considerations of 
personality.” “Most of us like John,” he 
explained, noting that a fellow senator told 
him he favored the amendment but voted 
against it because he did not want to attack 
Holobinko personally. Green added, “All 
this would never have happened if John 
had come to our meetings or even just 
stayed to the end of this one.”
After the meeting, several senators 
expressed doubt that the second vote was 
legal. “It’s the dirtiest thing I’ve seen (since 
joing Senate),” said one.
According to “Robert’s Rules of 
Order”, named the ultimate authority on 
procedure by the Senate constitution, a 
motion to reconsider a vote must be made 
by someone “who voted with the pre­
vailing side” the first time. But Green 
voted for the amendment the first time, 
and thus was on the losing side.
But the Senate’s edition of 
“Robert’s” does not give any precise 
definition of “prevailing side” in the case 
of a three-fourths vote. Both Senate Chair­
woman Bram and Parliamentarian Tom 
Klopack assert that the prevailing side in 
this case means the majority, even though 
it lost the vote.
(A later edition of “Robert’s”--not 
the edition authorized for Senate use~ 
makes it clear that the “prevailing side” in 
a two-thirds vote is the minority if the 
minority wins the issue.)
Casting further doubt on the vote’s 
legitimacy, “Robert’s” states that a 
legislative body first votes whether to re­
consider, then begins a new debate on an 
amendment, and finally revotes the amend­
ment itself. Student Senate conducted only 
one vote following Green’s motion, and no 
formal debate on the amendment took 
place during reconsideration. Klopack 
explains that the chairman could omit a 
vote on whether to reconsider in this case 
because “it was such a vast consensus in 
Senate that this is what was to be done” as 
evidenced by the 20-7 vote earlier in the 
meeting. “If there were people who ob­
jected to reconsideration, it was their duty 
to challenge it,” he said, “but nobody 
did.”
“The important thing to remember,” 
said Klopack, “is that the amendment 
would sooner or later have passed anyway, 
if not by motion to reconsider then some 
other way .... ”
Bram explained that her conduct of 
the second vote could have been challenged 
at the meeting, but that no legal way exists 
to change her decision now. Asked her 
personal opinion of the outcome of the 
reconsideration, she replied, “I really think 
it was underhanded also, but after looking

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Hebruary 20, 1973
EDITOR’S NOTE
Pat DiCesare, you stink.
Ever since Woodstock and A/tamont and the dosing of the Fillmore, 
it has been said that the business of producing good contemporary musical 
concerts has become much more difficult. Acts and their agents who ask 
more and more money result in promoters who care almost nothing about 
their customers after they’ve bought their tickets. Consequently, prices 
are up and quality is down.
In Pittsburgh, the problem is most acute. Pittsburgh may be the, 
worst town in the world in which to hold a good concert.
First of all, there are very few places in Pittsburgh where a good 
concert can be held. Most big-name concerts are in the Civic A rena, which 
resembles an echo chamber in acoustic quality. In the summer, there are 
big concerts at Three Rivers Stadium but you need binoculars and a 
scorecard to tell the players. Pitt Stadium was used this past summer for 
something called the “One World Festival of Music”, which lost a great 
deal of money. Heinz Hall tried its first and probably last “rock” concert 
in December—the ushers were on the verge of nervous fits trying to keep 
cigarette butts off the plush carpeting.
About the only good place in Pittsburgh to have a concert— 
acoustically, visually and practically—is the Syria Mosque.
Unfortunately, the Activities Board has been told that if it ever 
wants to use the Syria Mosque, it cannot advertise outside the C—MU 
campus. At first thought, this doesn’t seem like a bad idea to keep all 
those drug-crazed, degenerate, teeny-bopper hippies out of our activities. 
However, between the rent that the Syria Mosque charges and the high 
price of a big-name group, the Activities Board would have to sell an 
appreciable number of tickets to outsiders, or else lose a lot of OUR 
money. And they can’t sell many tickets to outsiders unless they 
advertise.
Consequently, the Byrds concert will be in the gym. Maybe the 
acoustics will be good and maybe they’ll be bad. Nobody really knows. 
The success of this concert will probably determine to a large extent 
where future concerts are held.
Meanwhile, there is reason to believe that Pittsburgh’s private 
promoters had a hand in the Syria Mosque’s decision not to rent their 
facilities to university groups. “After all,” they tell them, 'whatdo those 
college kids know about musicTThey’re not even trying to make a profit. 
We’re the ones who have to make a living out of this. Those colleges are 
putting us out of business!”
The biggest music promoter in Pittsburgh is a man named Pat 
DiCesare. He has been putting shows together as long as / can remember. 
From the old “Shower of Stars” shows to the latest KQV Winter “Festival 
of Rock”. Pat DiCesare has been promoting all the most “groovy” acts for 
all the most nondiscriminating people.
There is a possibility that C—MU will take the management of the 
Syria Mosqae and various promoters, including DiCesare, to court for 
violating the Sherman anti-trust act. There is some doubt that we really 
have much of a case, but it seems like the university has been given a 
really rotten deal and / can’t help thinking what a service we’d be doing to 
the Pittsburgh community if we just ran people like DiCesare out of town. 
Then we could start from scratch.
/ wonder what Bill Graham is doing these days?
Stephen Saunders
tartan
Editor in Chief.Steve Saunders
Business Manager.................Alice Bright
News Editor..............................Gary Singer
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans
Special Editors...........................Jeff Ganek
Mina Gerall
Special Concultant . . . . Steve Jurman
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff . . . S. Breisch
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Marc Field, Anna Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Kathy Knobloch 
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky 
Johnny McQuire, Robin Reiter 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor.............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
^^^^^^^^^^^KevirrScott^icWlerm^
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor .....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff.................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
Glenn Campbell, D. R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson 
Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List 
Greg Mason, Jim Sivak 
Political Cartoonist . . Jimmf Margulies
Layout.....................................Erica Gees
Copy Staff ............................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Business Staff ....................Beth Bowers
Advertising Manager . . Dwayne Smalls
Letters:
Published every .Tuesday duriny the 
adacemic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557.
Editor:
In looking over the results of the 
recently held WDC elections, one has 
mixed emotions as to who to blame for the 
poor turn out. First there are the residents. 
When are the people living in the Women’s 
dorms going to realize what they are 
allowing to happen? They are screwing 
themselves. Yet how can you expect some­
one to waste her time filling in a ballot 
when there are only two contests for 
twelve offices?
At present WDC is a social club. Elec­
tions are n'ot based on issues, they are 
popularity contests. Also the Constitution 
eliminates many prospective candidates 
from running for offices on the executive 
board. Why must the qualifications for 
offices be so restrictive? At present it is 
also possible to be appointed to WDC, “If a 
person has shown an interest.” In the past, 
however, the executive board has tended to 
be rather “selective” concerning who they 
appoint (i.e. those who have varied 
opposing views need not apply). In short, it 
is no surprise that there were so many 
unopposed candidates, when there aren’t 
any people eligible to run other than those 
who are already in office. We have un­
successfully attempted to open executive 
board elections to all women residents; 
claiming that many of the representatives 
do little more than attend WDC meetings, 
if that. Any resident can attend meetings, 
therefore we do not see the extra expertise 
that one gains by merely having a title. We 
were informed, however, by the President 
of WDC*that a representative, by attending 
meetings, learns to be tolerant; we have 
thus concluded that one must be able to 
tolerate WDC meetings to run them.
WDC (it has been suggested that it be 
renamed Women’s Dictatorial Council.) 
does effect every resident living in a 
women’s dormitory area. Each woman 
pays a fee to WDC which is included in her 
¦tuition bill. It seems extraordinary that 
people would at least be interested in 
where their money is going! (Or at least 
refuse to pay as many people have done 
with the Federal tax on phone bills.)
The dorm council has been 
influential in some important matters on 
campus. The gynocological services which 
have recently been made available is the 
commonly stated example. We feel though 
that their influence could be used much 
more effectively, especially in gaining im­
provements in the dorm.
We suggest that WDC take on the 
responsibility of at least attempting to 
inform its constituency of what it is under­
taking and making an effort to get people 
involved. There was a Student Handbook 
published this year. We defy anyone to 
find a student With one. WDC should ask 
that the Handbook be distributed at least 
to Freshmen.
It is extremely disturbing that last 
semester impeachment proceedings were 
begun against the Vice-President and 
scarcely anyone outside of WDC knew 
about it, nor have the results ever been 
published. But then too, the “club” might 
well be sensitive about airing personal 
differences within the “inner circle”.
We realize that this letter comes too 
late. The election is over. Who knows when 
there’ll be another?Perhaps, though, a few 
readers will open their eyes and see what’s 
going on. And perhaps our “new” 
Executive Board will recognize a growing 
number of dissatisfied people.Deirdre Gavin 
Marge Rudnick
Editor:
After reading Steve Perkins’ 
commentary on “Tranquility” in the 
February 6th edition of the TARTAN and 
lifter listening three days after the publi­
cation of the paper to simply a very 
enjoyable, entertaining and interesting 
group, I simply cannot conceive of any sort 
of interconnection between “Tranquility” 
and “Yes”??
I found that his quote concerning 
their “long, boring instrumental intro­
ductions” was false. On the contrary, these 
were done very effectively. Their 
“irrelevant codas tacked onto things in an 
apparent attempt to sound like ‘Yes’” were 
non-existent or so faintly reminiscent that 
one couldn’t possibly develop any corre­
lation or interconnection between groups, 
WHATSOEVER.
Therefore, Mr. Perkins, evaluating a 
group both in its ability to engineer an 
effective album or tape or whatever AND 
in its ability to perform in concert would 
be advisable in the future. Rash criticisms 
could, therefore, be avoided. I’m sure that 
a vast majority of the people who listened 
to “Tranquility” Friday night thoroughly 
enjoyed this type of concert. (My congrats 
to the AB Board on such a fine job; this is 
the type of concert CMU needs more 
often.)Dexter Murphy
(Ed. Note: I disagree. What CMU needs is Dave Van Ronk.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 3
NEWS COMMENT
Great CMU Philosophers?
The idealist’s concept of a University is that of an institution geared 
toward the more optimistic future through liberal and moral actions. This 
would imply that the universities are composed of the great thinkers, or 
philosphers as they were once called before specialization, who spend 
their time both instucting and researching the possible solution to so­
ciety’s present problems. It is these men and woman that society crowns 
upon a scholarly mountain and looks up to for the answers. It is these 
men that society has allowed the privilege of living in the secluded, 
protected environment of the University in order that their minds be free 
of the average trivia.
How could these philosphers at C—MU possibly consider applying for' 
a pollution variance, which if received would exclude this school from the 
pollution regulations which we are currently violating, in an age where 
pollution is one of mankind’s major problems? Why can’t these great 
minds create an economically feasible solution to our polluting problems? 
How can C—MU, an instigator of progress, stifle it as do large economic 
interests like General Motors.
Our university’s minds should be working toward solving the pro­
blem, rather than perpetuating it!
Gary Singer 
News Editor
PERSONAL COMMENTARY
Democrats Take Action, 
Join the Republicans!
A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
Plans for CFA
by Christine Infante
Maybe you gave up in November. I did. 
But I haven’t given up for February or 
march or four years from now.
Too many people talk idealistically 
about overthrowing the system and either 
do nothing or just keep on talking.
There are, I trust, many who are simply 
frustrated with the idealist and exasperated 
at being unable to find another way. In one 
of those frustrating moments I started 
thinking about Nixon and a government 
that is not really concerned about its 
students, its common people or its poor, 
except of course around election time. 1 
kept thinking about an administration of 
expert manipulators and then I though
what if...
Those of us who are not necessarily 
Democrats at heart and are even less akin 
to the Republican Party, those who regis­
tered Independent or Democratic or maybe 
never registered ought to realize the 
potential power of our vote.
Crazy? Hardly. What if all of us(any 
others are welcome!) set about to - so to 
speak “take over” the Republican Party. 
By simply registering or reregistering as 
Republicans and working for the 
Republican Party we could do it. If we’re 
not strong enough to beat them we can 
make them more to OUR liking.
Sure, it’s a scheme. Maybe you’re a but 
like me and lunatic enough to say what 
if... *
by Richard M. Cyert
From time to time I would like, with 
the editor’s permission to comment in the 
TARTAN on certain issues of vital impor­
tance to the CMU community. I would 
appreciate receiving suggestions from each 
of you as to issues on which I might write 
columns. I cannot promise to discuss every 
issue, but I would appreciate your 
suggestions since I want these columns to 
be relevant to the readers.
Today I would like to comment on 
some of the plans the University has for 
improving the College of Fine Arts and the 
facilities available to the College. When we 
had to cancel the plans for the proposed 
drama building, we began immediately to 
make plans for an extensive expansion and 
renovation of space. The strategy that we 
were following was to attempt to convert 
all of the funds that had been raised for a 
new building into renovation. We have 
generally been successful in this endeavor. 
The major stumbling block has been 
$730,000 which had been promised by 
HEW. The government has so far refused to 
transfer that grant over to renovation on 
grounds that it was made originally for new 
building. However, I have recently been 
informed by “reliable sources” that our 
chances now of getting this decision 
reversed are very good. Assuming this is so, 
we will have approximately $2.25 million 
available for such renovation. We are ex­
ploring other possible sources of support in 
the hope that we can add further to these 
resources and thus expand our renovation 
plans more fully.
The planning for space has been ex­
tensive, and large numbers of alternatives 
have been examined. Currently the most 
acceptable and most likely alternative is to 
give all of the Margaret Morrison College 
building to Fine Arts. This means that the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs would 
move out, that the Dean of H&SS would 
move out, and that we would move the 
Biology Laboratories. We are hoping to 
have these plans finalized within a 
relatively short time and be prepared to 
move on the renovation immediately.
This renovation and this increase of 
space will, in the minds of the College of 
Fine Arts administration, go a great dis­
tance toward improving the physical 
facilities needed by the College for its pro­
grams. It is true that the funds that had 
been raised for a new building would have 
gone completely to Drama and that the 
current plans are to use the funds to im­
prove the whole College. It is also true that 
theDrama Department can lay claim to 
being one of the most distinguished depart­
ments on the campus. We feel that the 
shifts we will be making will give Drama 
the additional space that will enable it to 
operate in an effective manner and also 
greatly strengthen the other departments in 
fine arts.
There is frequently the impression, 
particularly with people not familiar with 
the technical aspect of universities, that 
new buildings determine the quality of the
university. I think the evidence is so 
obviously against this proposition that it 
hardly needs elaboration. The quality of a 
department, of a college, of a university, is 
the quality of its faculty and the quality of 
its student body. The long-run success of 
the College of Fine Arts will not be deter­
mined by its physical facilities. It is un­
likely that the students of the quality that 
we desire in the College of Fine Arts will 
select an alternative college because that 
college has good physical facilities. The 
College of Fine Arts has been operating 
under inferior conditions for a long time, 
and it has been doing a spectacularly good 
job. The moves that we now have in mind 
will improve these conditions 
immeasurably, and will be done within a 
financial budget that the University can 
afford. This is the way we are going to 
operate all through the organization while I 
am President. We are going to improve our 
quality, but we are going to do it within 
the financial constraints that limit us.
Having said this, I think it is still 
clear that we need an outstanding per­
forming theater for our Drama Depart­
ment. I know that the Chairman of our 
Board of Trustees, Mi. Fred Foy, feels 
strongly about our need to raise funds to 
build such a theater. I can assure you that I 
also feel strongly the need for such a 
theater: I hope that before I step down as 
President, such a theater will be built. If it 
is built during my administration, there 
will also be endowment funds to cover the 
maintenance so that the construction of 
the building will not drain off operating 
funds essential to the University as a 
whole. We do not want to become poor 
through the process of constructing new 
buildings.
Some questions have been raised 
about the grant from the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation not providing funds for 
the College of Fine Arts. First, let me point 
out that each proposal will not provide 
funds for each College. Foundations have 
particular interests, determined by the 
policies of the foundation. Second, the 
Richard King Mellon Foundation was kind 
enough to give some funds for discre­
tionary use of the administration. These 
funds help ease somewhat the hard-pressed 
general operating budget and thereby do 
benefit the College of Fine Arts, among 
others.
The priorities of the University need 
to be stated explicitly. The program we 
now have underway will lead to such a 
statement by the President on the basis of 
all of the information compiled by the 
faculty and discussed in the Policy 
Committee. This statement of priorities 
will be given to the University committee 
for further debate and proper refinement. 
These priorities will then determine the 
way in which new funds will be used. This, 
1 believe, is the only rational way to allo­
cate the University’s money. We cannot 
allow funds to be allocated on the basis of 
magazine articles or letters to the editor, 
although we will always be interested in 
getting information of this kind.
REJECTION OF PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSIONS^^'
AMNESTY
AYA ÜbyStev
HOLD iTJ THERES SOMETHING IfWtTAVNGME
The next issue of the TARTAN will be published on Tuesday, March b, 
1973. The deadline on all copy, announcements and advertisements is 
Thursday, March 1 at 12:30.
For more information, call the TARTAN at 682-4557 or extension 656.
_________I

---------------------------------------------------

Page'4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Researcher Says 
Drugs Will Stay
by Debi Hildebrand
Along with other psychologists, Dr. Joel 
Goldstein, as assistant professor of Psycho­
logy and Industrial Administration has
been studying drug use at HOLD Informa­
tion was obtained by surveying all
undergraduates in ’68 and the class of ’72 
(at the opening and closing of their 
freshman year, the beginning of their 
junior year, and again at the end of their 
senior year). The drugs assessed and
reported were hard liquor, tobacco, 
marijuana and hashish, tranquilizers and 
barbituates, amphetamines, LSD and other 
hallucinogens or psychedelics, as well as 
narcotics including opium and heroin.
Dr. Goldstein’s studies defined six basic 
categories of drug users revealed in the 
1968 surveys. First were ‘straight’ students 
who knew little about drugs and never used 
any about which they were asked; second 
was the most common category of 
‘drinkers’. These regularly used beer and 
liquor but no other drugs except perhaps 
No-Doze. Thirdly were the “Heavy Up and 
Down Users’ who had used some stimulant 
or depressant ten times or more. Usually 
heavy up users preferred amphetamines, 
and heavy down users used tranquilizers. 
Heavy users of stimulants depicted the 
stereotyped ‘head’ mu^h more than heavy 
users of depressant drugs in that their 
grades tended to be lower, they were 
inclined to be fine arts or humanities 
students, and usually lived in rented apart­
ments rather than dorms. They came from 
higher class homes and were less religious 
and more liberal than most students.
The last categories were the ‘Marijuana 
Tasters and Users’ who again were most 
likely to be fine arts or humanities majors 
who lived in apartments. Marijuana use 
rose with higher levels of parental income 
and education, suburban living, and 
political liberalness; its use was not relevant 
to religious commitment. Most tasters and 
users felt that marijuana was not addictive, 
that it did not lead to the use of heavier 
drugs, overestimated the amount of use, 
and intended to continue using it. They 
found marijuana use to be beneficial rather 
than harmful or unpleasant and reported 
no particular effects-pro or con. There 
was no relationship to sex of the person, 
grades in school, or frequency of participa­
tion in extra-curricular activities. On the 
“California Personality Inventory”, 
freshmen marijuana users scored especially 
high on social presence and flexibility 
scales and especially low on the sense of 
well-being, responsibility, socialization, 
communality (ability to relate to the 
community), and achievement via con­
formity scales (accomplishments toward 
society’s goals.)
Most students were introduced to 
marijuana by a close friend of the same 
sex, and the most frequently mentioned 
reasons for using marijuana were to ‘get 
high’, ‘feel good’, ‘curiosity’, and ‘to 
explore inner self’. The reasons for iTJ 
use were given as follows: hedonistic 
(pleasure, sociability)—20%, inner develop­
mental (inner exploration, religious ex­
perience, creativity )-66%, and instru­
mental (relieve sadness or depression, 
improve sex or learning...)-14%. In 
1970, there was a shift in reasons however; 
he donistic —44%, inner develop­
mental-46%, and instrumental-10%. 
Many also said ‘curiosity’.
The most common reason for decreasing 
or never using drugs was ‘no desire to 
experience its effects, and the least 
common reason was the influence of 
parents or friends. Reasons for ending drug 
use were mainly personal rather than 
social, but as usage grew, reasons for 
beginning drug use became more collective 
(fad-like).
In a progress report just prepared by 
Professors Goldstein and Gleason, changes 
in usage patterns were examined. In 1968, 
some 24% of CMU students had at least 
tried marijuana, 13-14% had experienced 
stimulants or depressants, 5% had ex­
perienced some hallucinogen/psychedelic, 
and 3% some illicit narcotic drug. Liquor 
(86%), and tobacco (67%) however, were 
the most common experiences. The extent 
of usage increased with each succeeding 
class in ’68 until the graduate levels where 
usage was even lower than incoming fresh­
men. While marijuana use has been 
increasing, intentions of using stronger 
drugs have been decreasing. For the class of 
’72, marijuana use went from 18% to 63% 
over the four years, but the percentage of 
students who said they intended to use less 
.common drugs in the future fell from 59% 
to 46%. Of the freshmen who had had 
some experience with drugs, 20% intended 
to withdraw back to only beer, liquor, 
knd/or tobacco use.
In a paper prepared for “Focus”, Gold­
stein states, “there?-appears to be a tipping 
point where the weight of usage overrides 
prohibitive norms. Among students at 
least, this, point has already been reached 
for marijuana. I find it heartening that 
uncritical and accelerating enthusiasm for 
drugs hiore dangerous than marijuana has 
not accompanied the rapid acceptance of 
the ‘new social drug’. The deliberate 
altering of consciousness, the pursuit of the 
rewards of social drug usage, the practice 
'Of ‘self-medication’ of mood-all seem to 
be here to stay, at least until replaced by 
more satisfying practices. In the interim, 
intellectually honest and comprehensive 
education concerning the psychoactive 
drugs and their usage is increasingly 
important... by their usage practices and 
attitudes students are demonstrating that 
they are more rational about drug use than 
much of society gives them credit for.”
Taylor Urges Cooperation
mafftfesnafce ctoaWeu rear/
by Gary Bronheim
Wearing dark blue uniforms, C-MU’s ten 
security officers patrol the campus ehlping 
those in trouble, and hindering those trying 
to cause trouble.
Although most students don’t realize it, 
a security officer is a policeman with the 
ability to make arrests. His jurisdiction, 
however, is limited to the campus area.
Ron Taylor, head of the office of 
Security Services, expressed hope that 
students would cooperate fully when 
approached by an officer. “Security 
officers upon investigating suspicious or 
disorderly situations are required to make 
an identification of all persons involved. 
Such indentification is either to warn the 
person involved,(usually) refer him to 
student affairs, or in the most serious 
situations exemplified by robbery or 
aggravated assault and battery, make an 
arrest. This action is rare. However, 
without an ID the officer has two choices: 
(1) release with no action, or (2) make an 
arrest. Neither response is well suited for 
most situations. The first usually is an 
underreaction, the second, an over­
reaction.” The underlying concept being 
that a student is further ahead when 
cooperates and produces an ID.
The security officers are there to 
protect and help students and to offer 
medical assistance. Help them to help you 
by cooperating.
Craig Discusses 
Citizen Activism
Participatory democracy is a failure, 
according to David Craig, featured speaker 
at the Carnegie-Mellon University Forum, 
Thursday evening, February 22, in the 
Skibo Ballroom on campus.
Craig, who was Pittsburgh’s safety 
director from 1965 through 1969, will 
draw upon his experience as a professional 
in government and his legal expertise as an 
attorney to discuss transportation, safety, 
planning and other public problems as they 
relate to “pure democracy”. More recently, 
Mr. Craig was known for his part as special 
legal counsel to the Port Authority Transit 
in the “Stop Sky bus” case. Presently 
serving as an elected member to the Home 
Rule Study Commission for Allegheny 
County, he is also an adjunct professor of 
urban law and administration at 
C-MU.
BIRTH CONTROL INFORMATION 
PEER HELP CENTER 
687-7414 BAKER HALL 150-A
KNOCK
HE^ ER>ji£ woulD YOU answer TMC ftOOft ? i 
*»ANT TO PR. OOP read 
THIS AUTlCUt ;
KMQCK '
Security Chief Ron Taylor
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
Poetry Reading
The International Poetry Forum will 
sponsor a reading by Ann Darr, Daniel 
Halpem and Marc Weber on Wednesday, 
February 28, at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Ann Darr was a Discovery 70 
Award winner from the Poetry Center in 
New York and has read her poetry at the 
92nd Street YMHA, various universities 
and schools. She also participated in the 
International Poetry Forum’s Poets-in- 
Person high school series. ST ANN’S GUT, 
her first book of poetry, was published 
in 1971.
Daniel Halpern is the co-founder of 
the literary magazine ANTAEUS. His work 
has appeared in numerous magazines 
including THE NEW YORKER, ESQUIRE 
and SATURDAY REVIEW. His first 
volume of poetry, TRAVELING ON CRE­
DIT, was published in 1972. He is 
currently teaching at the New School for 
Social Research in New York.
Marc Weber, the 1972 United States 
Award winner of the International Poetry 
Forum, is a graduate of the University of 
Colorado. His manuscript was selected by 
Muriel Rukeyser from the more than 1300 
manuscripts that were submitted. The 
award includes the publication of his 
manuscript, 48 SMALL POEMS, by the 
University of Pittsburgh Press and a 52,000 
cash prize.
Tickets are available at Kaufmann’s, 
Gimbels, Home’s, downtown, and the Stu­
dent Unions of the University of Pitts­
burgh, and Duquesne University. Individual 
tickets are $2.50, and student tickets are 
$1.75.
The International Poetry Forum is spon­
sored by the Carnegie Library under an 
endowment from the A.W. Mellon 
Educational and Charitable Trust.
AMNES STAS YH^R>A>Hj 
N> iNEj£
CHARLEY, THIS OUT SAYS HES 
FROM THE ANO HE WANTS
TO TALK TO YOU A.»OUT THE 
UMDERORJOUND NEWSPAPER.!De t tttttttrtttttttttt
STH woul D O
Btfc OEM-»------1J—
TtLL HU* t W*NT TO 
SEE NiS CREDENTIALS ;
T

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 5
Artists who have artwork in the Students'
Gallery from previous shows must remove 
it from the Gallery before February 28. 
After that date it will become property of 
the Gallery.
There are still photos from the TARTAN
PHOTO CONTEST in Skibo 50. Please 
pick them up.
FALSTAFF by Verdi (After Shakespeare's
"The Merry Wives of Windsor") will be 
performed (in English) by the CMU Opera 
Workshop on Saturday, March 3, and 
Sunday, March 4 at 8:00 p.m. in the Car­
negie Theater, Fine Arts Building. Student 
tickets (against I.D. card) at the Music 
Office, Rm. 105 FA on Monday, February 
19 from 8:30-12 and from 2-5.
Student Senate has just purchased a
thermofax machine (located Skibo 103). 
Orders must be left at least 24 hours in 
advance. The machine makes ditto & 
mimeo stencils from a master (typed 
copy). Costs: Ditto—$.25 student organ­
izations, $.50 others; Mimeo—$.50 student 
organizations, $.75 others.
Donald Mclnnes, principal violist with the
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, will guest 
perform with the Carnegie-Mellon String 
Quartet Wednesday, Feb.21, at 8:30 p.m. 
in the Skibo Ballroom. On the program 
are: "Quartet, Op'. 118, No. 10" by 
Shostokovich; "Quintet in D Major, K. 
593" and "Quintet in C Major, K. 515" by 
Mozart.
Tickets for the Inauguration of Richard M.
Cyert as sixth president of Carnegie-Mellon 
University will be available to faculty, staff 
and students beginning Monday, February 
19, 1973, in the Department of Public 
Relations, Baker Hall 160. The inaugu­
ration will be held on Friday, March 9, 
1973, at 2 p.m. in the Ballroom of Skibo 
with Dr. Howard R. Bowen, Chancellor of 
the Claremont University Center in Cali­
fornia, as guest speaker. Responding to Dr. 
Bowen's address, Dr. Cyert will project ip 
his address the goals and responsibilities of 
Carnegie-Mellon University under his 
leadership. Classes will not be cancelled for 
the Inaugural ceremonies, but faculty, staff 
and students who wish to attend the 
ceremonies are welcome to do so.
1967 brought us "Sergeant Pepper" and
"The Letter". On Saturday, Marius 
Misiunas brings you the music of this year, 
considered by most to be the birth year of 
progressive rock music. Join him from 
noon to two p.m. this Saturday on WRCT 
for the sixth installment of "The Rock 
Years: 1962 to 1972".
E.R. Steinberg, Dean of the College of
Humanitierand Social Sciences, will appear 
live on WRCT (900 AM) from 6 to 7 p.m. 
on Wednesday, February 21. Any 
questions that are phoned in will be 
answered during the program. Call 
621-9728 or dial 01 on the Morewood 
House Phone.
The Film Workshop will hold its postponed
meeting on Wednesday, February 21 at 
8:00 in Room 46 of Skibo. In addition to 
the talk by Phil Curry of the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Association, a film by the 
underground filmmaker James Boughton 
will be shown. Free and open to the public.
The Astronomy Club usually has an
observing session on clear evenings. Drop 
by 5206 Woodlawn Avenue and ask for 
Charles Hendrich, or go to Donner Hall 
A-13 if you're interested.
The Astronomy Club usually has an
observing session on clear evenings. Drop 
by 5260 Woodlawn Avenue and ask for 
Charles Heindrich, or go to Donner Hall 
A-13 if you're interested.
The YWCA will be showing "Gulliver's
Travels" as part of its Saturday Children's 
Program Cartoon Series. The film will last 
from 2:30 to 4:00 p.m. Saturday, 
February 24 in Porter Hall 100.
The YWCA is holding a guitar workshop
Wednesday, February 21 at 4:00 p.m. The 
workshop will be held in the old TV room 
in the Tartan Grill. Bring your guitar or 
come and listen.
The Alpha Omega Chapter of Phi Mu
Alpha Sinfonia will sponsor "A Festival of 
Music for Chorus, Organ and Brass Instru­
ments" celebrating the Diamond Anni­
versary of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia 
Fraternity of America. Scheduled for 
March 11 at 8:30 p.m. in the Calvary 
Episcopal Church, Shady Avenue and 
Walnut Street, Pittsburgh, the program will 
be presented by the department of music, 
Carnegie-Mellon University College of Fine 
Arts. The concert is free and open to the 
public.
The New American Movement is a socialist
alternative to the problems faced by our 
country. This is an opportunity to engage 
in meaningful political activity for real 
social change. There will be a meeting to 
acquaint the C-MU campus community 
with the New American Movement and 
to discuss possible projects, on Wednesday, 
February 28th at 4:30 p.m. in Room 45, 
Skibo.
The finance committee is holding their
annual Spring Budget Hearings February 
28, March 4 & 5. All organizations are 
required to send their present business 
manager and their new one for next 
semester. The questionnaires that were 
passed out at the audit must be turned in 
prior to consideration of any organization's 
budget. All organizations must keep in 
mind that the majority of budget requests 
this time will have to be passed on 
condition of the passing of the five dollar 
activity fee increase. Any questions please 
contact Sue Christian or Tanya Allmond.
Wednesday, Feb. 28 
4:00 Chess Club 
4:15 Karate 
4:30 Technical 
5:00 Tartan 
5:30 Student Gallery 
6:00 Peer Help 
6:30 WRCT
Sunday March 4
6:30 Spirit 
7:00 Hockey 
7:15 Fencing 
7:30 Sailing Club 
8:00 Cameron Choir 
8:30 Commuter 
9:00 PIRG
9:30 Act. Board, Programming Fund
Monday March 5 
7:00 Film Workshop 
7:15 Radio Club W3NKI 
7:30 SIMS 
7:45 Rifle & Pistol 
8:00 Two Hands 
8:15 Faculty Course 
8:30 Cheerleaders 
8:45 Science Fiction 
9:00 Astronomy Club 
9:15 Freshman Orientation
Two awards will be made in the amount of
$250 each. Any woman student in the 
junior class who is majoring in government, 
political science, economics or history or is 
preparing to teach one of these subjects is 
eligible to apply. Students must have good 
scholastic standing; be reasonably active in 
student activities; be a resident of Penn­
sylvania; establish financial need; and 
possess a Democratic family background or 
be an active participant in the affairs of the 
Democratic Party. Applications which 
must be postmarked on or before May 1,
1973, may be obtained by writing to: 
Memorial Scholarship Fund, Grace M. 
Sloan, Chairman, P.O. Box 3766, Harris­
burg , Pennsylvania 17105.
Just because you can integrate doesn't
mean you can't punctuate. MIS and CIT 
students needfed to write stories about 
faculty research. It is a good way to really 
meet a prof* or gej into some interesting 
research. Contact the TARTAN at 
682-4557 or ext. 656.
Lunch & Lecture Series: Middle East
Perspectives. Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, 
B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation, will speak 
on the topic: "The Affinities between 
Judaism and Islam.'' This will be the 4th of 
these lectures and will be held on Monday, 
February 26, 1973, at noon in the B'nai 
B'rith Hillel Library, 3rd floor of the 
Y-l KC Building, 315 S. Beliefield Avenue. 
Lunch can be purchased for only $.50.
After more than a month of operation,
Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh has announced 
that it will continue to sponsor its 
Saturday coffeehouse for district gay
people and friends. Attendance and
interest in the coffeehouse has grown 
steadily, showing that the Pittsburgh area 
can support such a venture. Open at 8 p.m. 
Saturdays, the coffeehouse is held at the 
First Unitarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues in Shadyside. There is 
no admission charge, since it operates on a 
donation basis, and a friendly, informal 
atmosphere usually prevails. The next 
coffeehouse will be open this Saturday, 
February 24, 1973. A wide variety of 
refreshments will be available.
A Point Park Social will be held on
Saturday, February 24 at 8:30 p.m. in 
Lawrence Hall, Room 409. Lawrence Hall 
is located on the corner of Wood St. & 
Blvd. of Allies. Enter Academic Hall till 
2nd floor, cross the bridge, and take the 
elevator to the 4th floor. Parking is
available behind the school. If you need a 
ride, call 621-8875.
A free concert will be presented on
February 18, 1973, at Carlow College 
Chapel by Pittsburgh Free Media from 
7:00 to midnight. Groups performing will 
be Fat Sal, Dime-A-Dance, Butch, Jessica 
Stone and Father Maple.
A free concert will be presented on
February 25, 1973, at Chatham College 
Chapel by Pittsburgh Free Media from 
6:00 to midnight. Groups performing will 
be Jailbait, Pazazz, Crabshaw and Three 
Rivers Blues Band. Chatham College is 
located off Fifth Avenue near Highland on 
Woodland in Shadyside.
Wednesday, February 21st—Introductory
Lecture on Transcendental Meditation. 
8:00 p.m. Scaife Hall. Thursday, February 
22nd-Follow-up Lecture for those who've 
attended Introductory Lecture. 8:00 p.m. 
Scaife Hall.
Anyone interested in participating in
Varisty Tennis activities, please report for 
an organizational meeting on Friday, 
March 2, at 4:30 p.m. in the Black Cat 
Lounge, Gymnasium Building.
The Math Club is alive and well. Come join
us this Thursday at 4:30 in Science Hall 
6220. All interested students welcome.
Classified Ads
Schools and Instructions—Belly Dancing—
Group instructions, everyone invited, 
"Have fun learning Belly Dancing." Classes 
now forming Y—IKC, enroll now. Steve 
Bayer 621-6500.
Woman desires regular light/heavy house­
keeping work, days or evenings. Ex­
perienced/references.. Jean: 361-9145.
Custom Photography —50Cents-8X10
prints from your negative. Darlene 
Covaleski. Department of Computer 
Science, Box 418 or 441-2766.
For Sale—Guitar. Harmony Rocket hollow
body electric. Easy to play. Soft case, cord, 
capo and picks included. $45. About $110 
new. I need the money to pay for the 
Yamaha FG-600 I just bought. Inquire at 
TARTAN office or call 687-3713. Ask for 
Steve Saunders.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 215 S. Belief ield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8 30 
p.m. 621-8875
Wanted—Lionel 0.027, Super 0 and
standard gauge trains. Call 335-7922 after
7 p.m.
HEGEMAN STEREO SPEAKERS
Hegeman . .. the next best thing to being 
there."—Rolling Stone
"... regardless of price, I would be hard 
put to Tthd a speaker more genuinely 
musical than Hegeman."—Opera news
Your ears deserve the best. Hear them. 
687-3262»
Russia for sale! Educational Holiday - 4
days Moscow-3 days Leningrad. First class 
with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and trans­
fers, including Ballet or Circus each city. 
$399, plus 10% for visas, taxes and ser­
vices. Departure date March 24, 1973. Call 
Ms. Zhivago at 391-4499 or write Scandin­
avian Airlines, 2 Penn Center, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 19102.
PERSONALS
G,
I'm in the mood for love.
Ea
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIOANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 34 
hours and you can return home the lame day you leave1
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Organisation 
opan 7 day» a »«»

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, Î973
Architects Build Ice City
by Tom Lang
During the early part of last week, 
many long glances were directed at some 
unusual ice structure on the Fine Arts 
lawn. Hmmm, those architecture students 
are up to something again. Well, that ice 
dome was only a carry over from an experi­
mental architecture seminar at Fargo, 
North Dakota called “Ice City”.
From January 10 to January 25 
eleven Carnegie-Mellon students and one 
professor of architecture endured the likes 
of cold weather, which, unfortunately, 
wasn’t cold enough, food shortages, make­
shift living accomodations and thwarted 
expectations in order to experimentally 
test the advantages and limitations of ice as 
a building material. Their stay, however, 
produced many interesting discoveries, 
varied experiences and hopes for similar, 
future experiments.
“Ice City” which also had partici­
pants from the University of Texas at 
Austin, the University of Texas at 
Houston, North Dakota State University - 
the host school, University of Montreal, 
University of Manitoba and Evergreen 
College from the state of Washington, 
never quite approached the expectations 
that were held for it. Of the 40 to 50 
structures that were envisioned only one 
was successfully built and that was by, you 
guessed it, the CMU group.
The major problem was the “warm” 
weather. During January, the average tem­
perature in Fargo ranges between -15 to 
-30 degrees. However, as the students 
began to arrive, the temperature rose to a 
range of 20 to 40 degrees and remained 
there throughout the course of the 
seminar. One architecture student was told 
by the residents that they were ex­
periencing the first “warm” spell in one 
hundred years.
Most of the ice structures, like the 
one in front of the Fine Arts building, were 
made by spraying water over a plastic in­
flatable and as soon as the ice was thick 
enough, to deflate the plastic framework. 
Fortunately, the ice doesn’t adhere to the 
plastic. After spraying is completed, a hole 
is cut into the structure and the plastic is 
easily removed. The finished product is a 
stable, fairly strong dome with diffused, 
uniform lighting throughout its interior.
Due to the warm temperatures, the 
spraying was done mostly throughout the 
night. Even then, the temperatures weren’t 
warm enough. Students were encountering 
problems which were largely due to the 
length of time required for the spraying.
Ice house sans ice. First this plastic form is inflated. Next, water will be sprayed over it. 
Finally, when the water has frozen into a hard shell, the plastic will be removed.
Photo by Henry Collins
Had the temperature been colder, (the 
ideal temperature is -10 degrees), the 
blower wouldn’t have been needed as long 
as it did and the strain on the seams in the 
plastic inflatable wouldn’t have lasted as 
long. These were very serious problems 
which impeded the construction of the 
domes.
The architectural concept behind this 
vast endeavor was developed by Professor 
Wolf H. Hilbertz of the University of Texas 
at Austin. Hilbertz, long time friend of 
Volker Hartkopf, an Assistant Professor of 
Architecture at CMU, calls it “cybernetic 
architecture”, and has defined a cybernetic 
structure as a “growing, changing 
creation-a system always in communi­
cation with itself and in contact with all 
the physical and non-physical forces which 
determine its use and dimension”.
Hartkopf, who taught at North 
Dakota State University before coming to 
Carnegie-Mellon this year, refers to the 
“Ice City” and the concept behind it as a 
“responsive environment”, that is, “an 
environment which is readily adaptable to 
changing needs.” A very practical example 
of this, according to Professor Hartkopf, is 
the us« of ice tunnels to connect buildings 
in the winter. There would be no need for 
storage since the ice would melt once the 
warm weather comes; and the ice 
structures could be constructed with mini­
mum expense. Ecologically, it would also 
be very practical.
Hartkopf further stated that any 
design decision made has a great bearing on 
the product. He advocates more of an ex­
perimental outlook toward architecture in 
order to more closely relate the product
People who dwell in ice houses. Clockwise from lower left: Bob Keppel, Charles Saunders, 
Victor Schwartz, John Whitney, Mike Roughan, Prof. Volker Hartkopf, Jack Kosko, Steve 
Lee, Rick Hine, Andy Skurman, and Bruce Leslie. Photo by Henry Collins.
and its limitations to the design. More prac­
tical experience can be gained by actually 
doing and building. He foresees the class­
room losing some its importance to field 
experience, in terms of conventional and 
experimental architecture.
Despite the physical drawbacks of 
“Ice City”, the students who participated 
found the experience rewarding. One 
student, Charles “Wamus” Saunders, des­
cribed the seminar as an architects’ conven­
tion. “A group of people were together for 
a length of time who talked architecture.” 
A general response was that it was 
interesting to meet people from different 
parts of the country and share experiences.
Altogether, eleven students from 
CMU attended the seminar. These were: 
Charles Saunders, Mike Roughan, Bruce 
Leslie, Victor Schwartz, Steve Lee, John 
Whitney, Jack Kosko, Andy Skurman, Bob 
Keppel, Rick Kline, and Randy Fielding.
AAB Dies in 
Senate Clash
Continued from page 1
through ‘Robert’s Rules of Order’, I can’t 
see how I could have done otherwise . . . 
It’s unfortunate it had to come out this 
way, but . . . that’s politics.”
Senate did not appoint the new 
Academic Affairs Committee created by 
theamendment. Later last week, an ad hoc 
investigatory committee headed by Dave 
Weintraub met with Holobinko to discuss 
recent AAB projects. Holobinko described 
his plans to organize a kind of super­
committee composed of representatives 
from the Faculty Senate’s Student Ad­
visory Committees and chaired by a Co­
ordinator of SACs. Weintraub’s investi­
gatory committee, which will report to 
Student Senate this afternoon, is expected 
to endorse Holobinko’s proposals and to 
suggest that Senate use its new committee 
only as a study group, playing a subsidiary 
role to the SACs.
In the only other business transacted 
during last week’s meeting, Senate rejected 
overwhelmingly the motion by Dave 
Groupe that would have allowed each 
student to indicate on his tuition bill how 
he wants part of his activity fee spent. 
Dean Swank and several senators objected 
that the measure would be difficult to ad­
minister and could invite legal challenge to 
the mandatory fee.
Dean f arle Swank, administration representa­
tive to Student Senate.
Photo by Henry Collins
REFERRALS 
PEER HELP CENTER
687-7414BAKER HALL 150-A
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
We’re new and we're the bigest! Thousands of 
topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
subjects include not only English, but Anthro­
pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco­
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, 
Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob­
lems. Send )2 for your catalog of topics avail­
able.
REGAL NOTES 
3160 “O” Street, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 
Telephone: 202-333-0201
Save Money
on Brand Name Stereo Equipment
Consumers Warehouse Sales
746 Penn Ave., Wilkinsburg
Phone: 241-1041

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 7
I Can't Believe I Ate The Whole Thing!
%/A Ajiàkt filtri Ujorsb'j?
CH"E35, ^<si ^ ^ l&fle, 4wd o GluW-
MSA
or»crfV«iv»i
Oârn ì u
1tab repfe^ntiA20^
> ôoof nwien
O'"* Çv<^
ò^ìA >w,>X/
x? *tM° Ba£el órdri
Here are a few aspects, of this 
Springs election. By the way, 
Watch out for ...
"What's all this Brouhaha"
9999
To get photo in the election edition of the 
TARTAN, candidates must show up at the 
Tartan OFFICE 4:30 P.M. March 7.To get your name on the ballot, 
Pick up petition at the activities 
Desk, get 25 signatures,
and return it by 
5:00 P.M. Wed. March 7
Each student is a member of the first 
constituency in this series for which he 
(or she) is eligible.
AN ACTIVITIES BOARD VACATION SPECIAL
PLAY MISTY FOR ME
Jewish Women of 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Are Cordially Invited to Attend
Friday, February If... 
DH IIWt at A, V, and WW. 
Nt« With an AB Card.
“The Jewish Daughter Comes Home
A Convention of Lubavitcher Women
(Chabad Chassidim)
99
FEBRUARY 23-25, 19J3
Pittsburgh
Information and Reservations 
521-7869 421-7752

---------------------------------------------------

Aiw PffßSTBHOLDiT JIfWtiA êmmtr..
Brewery in 1844 ?Our
GMEMw PMßSwM 
BêT mBM rLwMTm 
.êmMwFOêim êGJ 
mBM ßUGMTm UOrSwmMJ 
êGJ JSOMTmUH BSrT 
PMMG rSwmwêRMJ 
TS iêEUTBiRCC
HtarntTttgU
Çy (¡Least of awdti andrum-^màti 
KMQCÇCy(y¡ÇyL MC eayst¡MoC fyCÇ (W)
AND SOME R£AUY HAPPY JUDGES !!!
FOR 
VERY GOOD 
STUFF
.TOTHE TASTE OF GOOD OLD-TIME FLAVOR, !
FILMED IN 
NATURAL 
BEER COLOR
PRODUCED By THE FIRST OF 
THE GREAT MILWAUKEE BREWER
PABST BREWING COMPANY • Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, 111 ., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles. Cal., Pabst, Ga.
Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
^IIIIIIIIIIHIfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllltllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiililiililllllllllllH^
I DEAN E. R. STEINBERG
I College of H&SS j
¡answers your questions when he appears live! 
| Wednesday, February 21, From 6-7 pm on
WRCT WV
Call 621-9728 or j
Dial 01 on the Morewood house phone. ;
t t*! ./ k w it ' > r . ‘ ' * =
i.niiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
OPENING
Director Of 
Activities Board ’73-’74
Pick up applications at Skibo Desk
and return no later than Mar. 2 
Interviews-March 4~6pm
Senate Ratification—March 6—4:30 pm

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 9
Peer Jfclp—“—Anytime ]fou’re Cruising Down Zhe Mill"
by S. Breisch
The “headquarters” for peer help is 
located on the ground floor of Baker Hall, 
(150-A). The rooms are ^filled with 
comfortable, sunken chairs, plants named 
Cherrychuckle and Berkely, music coming 
from an indistinguishable source, and 
fellow students who are willing to talk. 
Pete Georgades’ one of the original three 
founders, described their goal as trying to 
“help people make their own decisions. We 
are non-directive with a person. We don’t 
give advice; we don’t tell people what to 
do.”
Peer counseling was a “brainstorm” in 
September of 1971. With the support of a 
one-thousand dollar grant from the Faulk 
Foundation, Mina Gerall, Pete Georgades, 
Clay Prestia, the Counseling Center, and 
other volunteers worked together to begin 
its operation in October of that year. Now, 
almost a year later, the staff members 
report that about half of their help is over 
the phone while the other half is by 
personal contact. The phone number is 
687-7414 and the hours of the office are: 
M-F 10:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Sun-Th 7:00 
p.m. to 2:00 a.m., Fri & Sat 7:00 p.m. to 
6:00 a.m. These hours are not inclusive of 
the hours the members are available to 
help. One member of the “peer family” 
stated, “anytime a student recognizes me 
and wants help, all they have to do is ask. 
Anytime!”
One of the services the staff-members 
perform is helping students with “head- 
hassles”. This may include talking with a
person on a bad trip, or a person who is 
thinking of suicide, or a person in need of 
an abortion loan. This group also acts as n 
legal and medical referral service in that 
they can easily contact the names and 
numbers of a good doctor or lawyer. “If 
there is something we can’t handle, we get 
you a professional. Students can use our 
services because we know the officials; we 
know where to look fof an answer to a 
particular problem, and we get good 
cooperation from these people. For 
someone who is not familar with the ‘red 
tape’, we can at least show him where to 
begin.”
The staff includes twenty-four 
Carnegie-Mellon students. The group 
maintains 'a balance between men and 
women and tries to have students with a 
variety of interests. All members are 
volunteer and have been chosen by the 
entire crew. When a person first shows an 
interest in helping, he or she first talks to 
the entire group, and then is asked to 
“Role Play.” After the student has simu­
lated a situation, “everyone gets together 
and talks about the attitudes and abilities 
of the volunteer. We then decide.”
After the individual is chosen, he or she 
is trained. This involves working with the 
Counseling Service, the Karma House, 
listening to tapes of situations, role 
playing, and participation in a course called 
Human Relations Seminar or a course 
similar to this. Perhaps the best “training” 
however, is the inherent attitude of the 
individuals and the group’s closeness. 
“Everyone knows and trusts everyone else.
PUT WINGS ON 
YOUR COLLEGE 
DEGREE
Your professional flying 
career could start 
with a phone call
The United States Air Force offers some unique 
career-starting advantages to college graduates 
between 20y2 and 26 Vfc years old. Alter grad­
uation from Officer Training School you’ll earn 
$9,860 per year while attending flight training; 
automatic increases plus promotion in rank can 
raise your income to $17,000 during your service 
term. And you'll acquire valuable training and 
experience that will pay off in civilian life . . . like 
a head start on a flying career ... or impressive 
leadership and million-dollar responsibility cre­
dentials to go with your degree. Benefits include 
30 days paid vacation annually, free world wide 
air travel, medical care and much more. Call now 
for more information without obligation;
Sgt. Richard P. Allen 
(412) 644-5839 
Room 310 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
We have exercises to buifd that trust. We 
have gone on a week-end retreat on a farm 
to help; we have conducted meetings other 
than business that pull us closer together.” 
you desperately need change for a quarter 
for a cup of coffee, peer help might be able 
to serve you. If you would like to meet 
some of the people, the “group” is having a 
bake sale this Thursday, February 22 in 
Baker Hall from 11:30-5:00 p.m. ... or 
“anytime you’re cruising down the hall, 
stop by.”
The entire crew of this service have their 
picture, names, and numbers posted 
outside the peer help door. Each person 
within the group brings a unique concept 
of why they are in peer help and for what 
purpose. One individual expressed the 
“need to be needed.” She explained, “1 
was active in high school and when I came 
to Carnegie-Mellon University, 1 wanted to 
do something. I get satisfaction in doing 
this. It helps me to help other people.” 
Another added, “When 1 was a freshman, I 
could have-used someone to talk to. Now I 
can help others because 1 can relate to 
them.” “We want to make it comfortable 
here. We’ve been through it; we want to 
help,” commented another.
A student descrived a typical situation 
as “I’ll be sitting in the lounge reading a 
_ Thor comic and a guy will walk in who is 
obviously concerned with something. He’ll 
say he wants to talk so we leave the lounge 
and go into the office or to Skibo or any­
place that he is comfortable. He then tells 
me he thinks h^ girlfriend is pregnant and 
he feels a great pressure about the situation 
and would like to talk. I help him clarify 
his position with the problem and become
his friend. I speak to him about the alter 
natives, give him information about where 
to set up an appointment with a Doctor to 
find out if there is a pregnancy. If the ¿rl 
wants, we can accompany her to the 
Doctor’s office. Later, he needed help 
again and he came back. There was a 
complication and so we talked about the 
situation again. The couple then handles 
the situation in the way they saw fit.”
The people of peer help do not tell 
students What to do but try to aid 
individuals in making decisions. So the 
next time your roommate falls asleep while 
you are telling an important experience or 
you desperately need change for a quarter 
tor a cup of coffee, peer help might be able 
to serve you. If you would like to meet 
some of the people, the “group” is having a 
bake sale this Thursday, February 22 in 
Baker Hall from 11:30-5:00 p.m. ... or 
“anytime you’re cruising down the hail, 
stop by.”
Independent Film - Maker 
and Critic for the Village 
Voice:
JONAS MEKAS
Mr. Mekas will show and 
discuss his latest film Rem­
iniscences of a Journey to 
Lithuania.
Wednesday, February 21 
Carnegie Lech/re Haff 
8:30
Students, $1.00 - 622-3212
Zhe Activities Uoard 
Presents...
The 
Woody Allen 
Festival
??????????????????????????-a-**Mananas
March 2 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 DH 2210
Zake Zhe Money and Run
March 3 7:00 and 9:30 DH 100
What’s Up Ziger Cilly
March 4
???????
7:00 and 9:30 DH 100
50c With M Card

---------------------------------------------------

íge 10—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Transcendental Meditation
by Debbie Siegel
“Rather than worry about a 
oroblem, you solve it,” stated Ned Okie, a 
CMU student who has been meditating 
ince July 1971. Ned began to meditate 
hen his brother started, and now his 
hole family is involved in TM. He took a 
.ourse at a summer school that offered the 
»rogram of TM, and has attended a few 
veekend retreats since. Ned described how 
elaxed these retreats are, “They are 
isually located in an isolated and quiet 
»lace. Everything is provided for the 
•erson and one just spends time meditating 
nd listening to people talk. Saturday is the
• lost relaxed day, but when Sunday comes 
ou feel happy and energetic. It makes you 
«nt to come back for a similar 
iperience.”
When asked to clarify how one 
.editates, he answered that it is rather 
ipossible to explain meditation to the 
erson who is not a meditator. Meditation 
a technique of direct experience, rather 
ian an intellectual concept. Meditation 
achers Rick Meisenbach and Eileen 
!met explained some of the process: “A 
rson sits quietly with eyes closed, and 
rough a simple, natural process the mind 
ties to finer and finer levels of thinking 
)d transcends the fine aspect of thinking
m i til one arrives at the source of thought 
_ep within the mind.” This is achieved 
irough the use of a word called ‘mandra’,
Sanskrit word. Ned emphasized, “Only 
i e person who is doing meditation can 
ally understand the process. The only 
people who have a total conception of 
lantra are the teachers who have studied
Dupont
Grant
Carnegie —Mellon University has an- 
Mounced receit of grants totaling $10,000 
rom the Du Pont Company’s Aid Program.
The departments of chemistry and 
chemical engineering have each received an 
unrestricted grant of $5,000 to be used for 
stipends or tuition to help support 
.raduate students, and for awards to gra- 
luate students for outstanding part-time 
eaching.
This is the fifty-fifth year that 
)uPont has contributed money to 
ducation. The total contribution made 
year by Du Pont is $2,740,000, of 
vhich nearly half is made up of restricted 
Lits to biology, chemistry, and engineer- 
:)£ departments of private and public 
jistitutions.
directly from Maharishi. For this reason a 
meditator would not be able to teach a 
person how to really meditate.”
In response to a question as to how 
commercial TM is, Ned replied, “When TM 
was first around, it was free in Canada. But 
meditation is. something which must be 
done on a regular basis if a person is to get 
a real benefit. Paying money gives a person 
a greater incentive to stay with it when he 
begins. To institute Maharishi’s world plan, 
it’s necessary to charge a fee.” Ned 
mentioned that after meditating for a few 
years, there are extra techniques a person 
can learn.
Scientifically, studies of TM have un­
covered some impressive results. Dr. 
Herbert Benson and R.K. Wallace of the 
Harvard Medical School reported some of 
their findings in Scientific America. During 
meditation, oxygen consumption drops 
almost 16%, while in a deep sleep it only 
decreases 8*/4%. In addition, these scientists 
observed slight falls in blood pressure and 
an average decrease of five beats per 
minute.in heart beat. There is a marked fall 
in the blood lactate level during meditation 
which causes the muscles to relax and a 
reduction in anxiety. Lower perspiration 
activity and a definite fall in physical 
tension is indicated by the 500 per cent 
increase in electrical skin resistance, as 
compared with an average 200 per cent 
increase during sleep and very little during 
hypnotic trances.
Physiological psychologists, from 
their research, have postulated the possi­
bility of this state being a fourth major 
state of consciousness, unique from the 
others of waking, dreaming, and sleeping.
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 S29 $49
al*o: 6x9'$, 12xl2's, 12xl5's, etc. 
Also: Area Rugs (orientals, shags, 
etc., etc.)
CHASE’S
5426 Walnut St., Shadyside
DAILY: 10:00 a.m. . 8:00 p m. 
SATURDAY: 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 
• 6 2 1 - 1 0 25 •
“Tfafoeÿ ÿte&tefaâ
& &.Í/&.C&&.4 AtCUt-
4ç?ccfOtoot ébée 
o4íécteát*ui fâut/*
Take It from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing, I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red, Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory international. Los Angeles Calif
They have labeled it a “wakeful hypo- 
metabolic style of functioning of nervous 
system.” The body achieves a state of rest 
deeper than that experienced in sleep. 
According to brain wave measurements 
(EEG) the mind is more alert during TM 
than in normal waking activity.
TM attracts a variety of people. One 
meditator is Alfred L. Jenkinds, the expert 
bn China from the State Department who 
went with Kissinger to set up the details of 
Nixon’s trip to China. The astronaut 
Russell Schweikart is another.
Ned concluded the conversation of 
this experience with TM, “When I first 
began meditating, changes seemed more 
drastic because I hadn’t felt that way 
before. Now, things come more instinc­
tively and I understand concepts with less 
effort. Since my mother began a few 
months ago, she has been hassling me a lot 
less.”
Gallery Seeks 
New Director
The Advisory Committee for the CMU 
Students’ Gallery is now accepting appli­
cations for the Director’s position. 
Applications are available at the Skibo In­
formation Desk and must be returned there 
by Monday, March 5.
The Director is responsible for the total 
operation of the Gallery; budgetary, 
operations, and curator. The Director will 
assist in the selection of the two Assistant 
Directors during the month of April. Can­
didates must be full-time students at CMU 
and may be an undergraduate or graduate 
student in any of the five colleges. Prior 
Gallery experience is expected but not 
necessary.
The Director receives tuition abatement 
for the duration of his or her term. If you 
have any questions about the position, 
please see Katie Morris, the present 
Director or Bob McCurdy, Director of Stu­
dent Activities.
HOLDiT HOLJIO fJOWtiOIAJIT 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
VNGL
MIEwJTTNPß — StiNDLJPA
CAMERA EXCHANGE
BAiWJPA êNTwEiPA EP mETA rAJLT
Two Locations 
OAKLAND—3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
Carnegie-Mellon Food Service
Serves A 
Special “1776 
Theme Dinner
THURSDAY, FEB. II, WVAf 
in SKIBO KILTIE CAFE 
at o4WN to A4tt P.M.
“Contract or A La Carte”
MOREWOOD DINING ROOM 
at o:(X) to í4oN P.M.
“Contract or $fDtt Charge”
THE LIBERTY BELL TAVERN’
The Bill Of Fare Includes:
OYSTER STEW BROOK TROUT
ROAST BEEFE BRl NSWI(IK ST EW

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973-Page 11
2.-COLUMJ4•Y C..COILIM&
WDC Election Results
Last Friday the women dorm residents 
were given an opportunity to express their 
opinions concerning housing, the WDC 
constitution, and the people they wish to 
run the WDC council for the following 
’ i year. As usual the apathy among students 
was visible as a scant 51% of the residents 
bothered to return their ballots.
Of the four executive board offices 
being contested only the presidency had
more than one contestant, Jane Lordeman 
and Martha Lisberger. The results were that 
Martha, the current president, was returned 
to office by 151 to 109 votes.
In the other issues being voted on 
Friday the women voted to institute 
squatter’s rights while they abolished the 
priority system granting council members 
first pick in room draw.
0Buckley Smokes Pot
Prominent conservative William F. 
Buckley, Jr., who recently called for repeal 
of the laws governing marijuana, said in a 
magazine article, released February 19, 
that he did so because any law that is 
largely ignored, as is the marijuana law, 
weakens the prestige of all laws.
Reinforcing his opinion that the 
marijuana laws should be changed, Mr. 
Buckley wrote in Redbook, “I believe that 
the use of marijuana should be de­
criminalized. No one should go to jail for 
smoking the stuff. I reject the singling out 
of individuals victims for the sustenance of 
a legal chimera and recoil agianst the 
altogether uses of the law.
“Not because we who take this position 
are purer than the manipulators, but 
because we fear the attrition of the law’s 
prestige. There are very good arguments for 
taking the law seriously. These arguments
call for modifying the crazy penalties 
currently prescribed for those who, 
indifferent to potential harm, experiment 
with marijuana.”
Writing in the current issue of Redbdok 
magazine, Mr. Buckley criticized the anti­
pot advocates saying, “The overwhelming 
majority of those who are against reform in 
the present marijuana laws are, in fact, not 
in favor of the vigorous prosecution of the 
marijuana laws. ... In taking this ambiva­
lent position toward the law, they are of 
course making a statement, irrespective of 
the lack of rigor or of consistency. That 
statement says this: We desire that the 
supreme law of the land dig in against 
marijuana. We recognize the fact that to 
implement the law rigorously is not 
feasible, and that if it were feasible, it 
would be cruel.”
Mental Health to be Discussed
Child mental health issues will be the 
theme of a public meeting co-sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Pastoral Institute and the 
Church and Society Institute of the Univer­
sity and City Ministries scheduled for 
Wednesday, February 21st at 8:00 p.m. in 
downtown YWCA, corner of 4th and Wood 
Streets. Mr. Mike Gorman, executive di­
rector of the National Committee Against 
Mental Illnes, will be the feature speaker. 
Mr. Gorman is internationally recognized 
for'his crusading efforts against mental il­
lness and has been called “the Country’s 
greatest modern missionary for mental 
health.” Amoung his works are “Oklahoma 
Attacks Its Snake Pits”and “Crisis in Child 
Mental Health.” This meeting is open to 
the public. The registration fee is SI.00 
and tickets may be obtained by calling or 
writing the Pittsburgh Pastoral Institute — 
661-1239 or the University and City 
Ministries — 682-2751. Registrations can 
also be paid at door.
Discover the World on Your
SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational stops in Africa, Aus­
tralasia and the Orient. Over 7500 
students from 450 campuses have 
already experienced this interna­
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
315 S. Bellefield
Room 409 Lawrence Hall
Sat. Feb. 24 - 8:30 p.m.
POINT PARK SOCIAL
corner of Wood St. & Blvd. of Allies, 
enter Academic Hall till 2nd fl., 
cross bridge, take elevator to 4th fl. 
Parking in lot behind school.
If you need a ride, call 621-8875 by Wednesday.
Mon. Feb. 26 - NOON 
DLE EAST PERSPECTIVES—LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES 
Topic: Hope—The Affinities Between Judaism & Islam 
Speaker: Rabbi Phillip Sigal,
Director, B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation 
ucationt: Hillel Library Y-IKC Bldg. 3465. Bellefield Ave.
Lunch ¦ S.50
iUmJ
C
?
Í71
Qm
*o»P.re .*aaP.r rdP INS£ CiAt A EY; 
*L,FiN THROUGH rT. MAlE
1973 ENGINEERING GRADUATES (AE, ME, EE)
Téceá*cu 
âé// Ka eysnd¿u*
Wed., March 7
Come look ahead with us—into your future in 
• VTOL, the aircraft we’re taking into a dynamic 
tomorrow with our ongoing long-term programs. 
No other company is so strongly committed to 
the continuing effort to develop advanced VTOL 
technology.
We offer a wide range of positions in DESIGN 
(aircraft structures; propulsion systems; 
transmissions; rotor, hydraulic & flight control 
systems; electrical/electronic svstems); TEST 
and ANALYSIS (structural, loads, dynamic, 
stress, mass properties, reliability/maintainabil­
ity; electrical/electronic systems; technical 
computing) as well as MANUFACTURING 
ENGINEERING (planning, methods, processes). 
Salaries are highly competitive, fringe benefits 
extremely fine.
Equally important, our location—in the Southern 
Connecticut countryside off Long Island Sound 
—provides the kind of living opportunities that 
make for a richly rewarding personal as well as 
professional life.
Arrange an interview through your Placement Office now.
Sikorsky U„
Aircraft ftl H
An Equal Opportunity Employer (m/f)
PREGNANT?-Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMJIY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Cath (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12--THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
//OPERATIONS NEWS
“When Printing 
Is Your Need...
Try Office Services"
The role of the Office Services De­
partment is the printing and distribution of 
items that range from formal party invi­
tations to lengthy doctoral dissertations.
The department, which is located in 
the basement of Porter Hall, has a staff of
13 people and is equipped to' handle 
virtually all of the university community’s 
printing needs for less money than a 
commercial printer would charge.
Tim Basinski, the Director of Office 
Services since last October, stresses that the 
department is “service-oriented,” aimed at 
the particular printing requirements of 
CMU students, faculty, and staff. Since he 
became director, Basinski has altered the 
office schedule so that customers can come 
in during their lunch hour, and revised the 
prices-downwards, in most cases.
In keeping with this service orien­
tation, the department provides pickup and 
delivery service to the campus. Finished 
jobs are delivered right to the customer and 
daily pickups are made each afternoon at 
301 Warner Hall and 409 MI. Work to be 
done can also be picked up at other 
campus locations, but Basinski feels that 
customers may receive better service if
“Blood Bank 
Needs Donors’
Employees can still contribute to the 
Carnegie-Mellon Blood Bank, even though 
the campus blood drive has ended. The 
amount of blood donated during this year’s 
drive was far below what was needed and 
the Blood Bank is now operating at a very 
low balance. Unless more employees decide 
to give blood, the Blood Bank will 
eventually be operating with a deficit 
balance.
To participate in this life-saving bene­
fit, make an appointment with the Central 
Blood Bank, Oakland Donor Station, 201 
Desoto Street, 391-8290, and ask that the 
blood be credited to CMU’s account.
All employees are eligible to join the 
CMU Blood Bank. With the costs of 
medical treatment and hospitalization 
steadily increasing, the price of a pint of 
whole blood ($30 to $40) can’t be dis­
regarded.
The Blood Bank will replace, at no 
cost to you, any blood required by you as 
member, your spouse, unmarried 
children, brothers or sisters who live with 
you, and your father or mother. Should 
you or a member of your family need 
blood, just ask the Personnel Office to 
issue a “Credit Release” to the hospital for 
the number of transfusions that may be 
required.
Any questions regarding your donor 
eligibility should be directed to Gail 
VanStone, Benefits Coordinator, at 
extension 310.
they come in personally to discuss their
job.
When you go into the office, you will 
usually be greeted by Mrs.' Alex 
Deseaunets, who will assist you in tilling 
out requisition and mailing specification 
forms. Should you need technical help. 
Bob Smith (the office manager) or Tom 
Hoey will advis^ you on the colors and 
weights of paper available, the various type 
sizes, and the best way to arrange the 
printed material and any illustrations you 
miglit have on the page. They will also tell 
you the most economical way to do the 
job.
The work done at Office Services 
falls into six major categories:
'I. OFFSET PRINTING. Technical re­
ports, theses and dissertations, resumes, 
posters, stationery and envelopes, business 
cards, and invitations are some of the jobs 
printed frequently at Office 
Services.
Both photos and line copy can be 
reproduced, with a maximum sheet size of 
11X17 inches. Original copy can be en­
larged up to three' times within the page 
size limits, or reduced to one-third the 
original size.
The process begins with a “camera- 
ready proof’, which means that you 
should bring in a rough draft or sketch of 
your job to show the desired results'. After 
the type has been composed and illus­
trations arranged, the plate is photo­
graphed and a plate is made. This plate is 
then placed onto the press and the copies 
are printed.
Printed material can also be folded, 
collated, drilled (to fit a looseleaf binder, 
for example), and bound in many different 
ways.
2. COPIER. This is the best reproj 
duction method when only a few copies 
are needed, or when speed is an important
Reports, Brochures, Posters, Resumes--Are just a few of the items you can have printed at office 
services. Some of the staff members ready to handle your particular printing need are, from left to 
right: Robert C. Smith, Manager; Tim Basinski, Director; Jim Bahonch, Offset Duplicator Operator; 
Robert O. Smith, Offset Duplicator Foremam; Tom Hoey, Camera Operator, and Alexandria 
Deseaunets, Administrative Assistant.
consideration. Two XEROX copiers (3600 
and 4000) can make quick reproductions 
up to 8Vi x 14 inches on either one or both 
sides of a sheet of paper. The rate is 5 cents 
per copy.
3. ADDRESSINÓ AND MAILING.
For internal mailings to such groups as 
Administrative Officers or Resident Assis­
tants, addressograph plates are used. Office 
Services maintains a current list of almost 
every identifiable group of CMU 
employees. (A complete list of the 
available address lists can be found on the 
department’s specification form.)
Two methods are used to address 
external mailings: individual computer- 
printer gummed labels, and heat transfer of 
computer-printed address lists.
Up to four pieces of mail can be 
mechanically inserted into an envelope, 
and additional pieces can be inserted 
manually» Once inserted, the mailing is 
weighed to determine the amount of 
postage needed, and then metered so you 
don’t have to worry about providing 
stamps. Orders with a minimum of 200 
pieces can be mailed at permit or bulk
rates, much cheaper than first-class, if in 
accordance with postal regulations. -
4. OZALID. This is a white printer 
used to reproduce engineering drawings.
5. ID CARDS. Office Services takes 
the photographs, provides cards, fills in the
ition, laminates, and validates ID 
’his is done at the registration site at 
the oeginning of each semeste/'. If replace­
ment cards, or ID cards for special groups 
are needed, the work is done at Office 
Services.
6. MICROFILM and MICROFICHE.
Facilities are available to reduce documents 
to microfilm. With the microfiche process,- 
several documents which have been 
reduced onto microfilm can be placed on 
an individual acetate card about the size of 
an index card.
For more information about a 
specific printing job or for cost estimates, 
visit Office Services anytime between 8:30
a.m. and 4:55 p.m. Monday through 
Friday, or call extension 208.
//Electron Microscope Training Given
n
As an Educational and Research 
Services’ training activity, Dr. L. F. 
Vassamillet, assisted by Martin Haller, has 
been teaching interested persons to operate 
and utilize information from a scanning 
electron microscope (SEM). Two to three 
training sessions are conducted each year in 
this powerful examination technique, 
depending on demand.
The latest course began February 9, 
with seven participants from the Depart­
ments of Electrical and Chemical Engineer­
ing and Metallurgy and Materials Sciences, 
and with two participants from industrial 
research laboratories. After the intro­
ductory lecture and demonstration, the 
students work in pairs on the instrument 
until they become proficient in its use. 
From experience, an average user will be
oi] his own and producing satisfactory
micrographs after about five hours of 
operating time.
It is the policy of Educational and 
Research Services to strongly emphasize 
the personal use of the SEM by research 
personnel, and to think of this instrument 
as an extension of the optical microscope. 
Considering the complexity of the SEM, it 
is reassuringto know that no particular set 
of critical skills is a prerequisite to learning 
how to operate it.
“Even though most of the more than 75 
persons who have been trained in our unit 
have been graduate students, postdoctoral 
fellows, technicians, or technical assistants, 
a fair number of undergraduates (juniors 
and seniors) have also become successful 
operators,” Dr. Vassamillet explained.
“One junior carried out a research 
program that resulted in a presentation of a 
paper at a national conference.”
University personnel from any depart­
ment can personally use the instrument in 
their research, once they have “successfully 
completed” the course. A fee is charged for 
both the training course and subsequent 
instrument use to help defray operating 
expenses of the laboratory. Anyone 
interested in participating in a future 
training session should call Dr. Vassamillet 
at extension 7-376.
Dr. Vassamillet, Head of the Electron 
Probe Laboratory, is also affiliated with 
the Metallurgy and Materials Sciences 
Department and with the Center for 
Special Studies. Mr. Haller, in addition to 
his service-research studies involving both 
transmission and scanning electron 
microscopy, provides instrumentation 
assistance to the Biological Sciences 
Department.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 13
//Machine Shop Builds X-Ray Cameras
//
Four X-ray cameras of unique design 
have been constructed by the Machine 
Shop of Educational and Research 
Services. Costing about $3,600 each, two 
of the cameras were built for Dr. Richard 
Podolsky of the National Institutes of 
Health, and two were constructed at the 
request of Professor Ernest April of 
Columbia University.
The improvements in the design of 
the cameras were, developed by Professor 
C.R. Worthington in CMU’s Biological 
Sciences laboratories in the Mellon In­
stitute Building. (He holds a joint appoint­
ment in the Biological Sciences and Physics 
Departments.) A native of Australia, Pro­
fessor Worthington began his modifications 
of the basic Franks low-angle X-ray camera 
while at King’s College in London. After 
coming to CMU in 1969, he asked the 
Machine Shop to build a camera incor­
porating the features he devised while in 
England with additional modifications. As 
scientists in his field learned of the 
camera’s features, they expressed interest 
in securing similar ones for their own work.
Professor Worthington’s primary 
interest, however, is not instrumentation in 
itself, nor the exploitation of his design 
ideas for. personal gain. His scientific 
studies, in which he utilizes the camera to 
investigate membrane structure and 
function (e.g., as it applies to nerve pro-
Dr. Cynthia Folzer, who uses the X-ray camera in her postdoctoral research, with members of the 
Al Schubert, and Machine Shop Head S. W. Bradley.
cesses), are his main concern. For these 
reasons, he has freely given information on 
the design to anyone who requested it.
Because of the Machine Shop’s 
expertise and experience in building Pro-
fessor Worthington’s equipment. Dr. 
Podolsky and Professor April asked that 
the units be built here. Arrangements were 
then made by Educational and Research 
Services for the construction of the instr-
Floyd “Bookstore Mgr. Leaving to Take New Position”
After nearly 22 years as manager of 
the CMU Bookstore, Charles Floyd could 
probably write his own book on his obser­
vations of college students and their 
reading tastes. And although Friday is his 
last working day at CMU, hi$ friendly 
manner and his many years of service 
won’t be forgotten by Bookstore 
Customers.
Mr. Floyd has accepted a position 
with the A & B Smith Co., a local whole­
saler of art and graphic supplies. His CMU 
replacement has not yet been named.
“One of the greatest joys of my job 
as bookstore manager was working with 
the students, faculty, administrators, ànd
gpgtltuiMU“
alumni,” he said.
“I have always felt that students 
here, no matter what the period, were 
professionally oriented. Students today are 
working just as hard as those of the 50’s.” 
But Mr. Floyd has noticed some 
apparent changes in the students he has 
met over the years.
“The student of the 50’s was a 
different kind of person than the student 
of the 60’s and early 70’s. The student of 
the 5D’s seemed to be a more materialistic, 
career-oriented person; the 60’s student 
seemed to take it for granted that he would 
get a good job, but the student of the 70’s 
is more interested in what’s going on in the
nrm
Charles Floyd, CMU Bookstore Manager, in familiar surroundings
world and how he will be able to make 
changes.”
One respect in which students 
haven’t changed much, according to Mr. 
Floyd, is their concern about prices, even 
though they “seem to have more money to 
spend now.”
As manager of the Bookstore (he was 
hired as assistant manager, but promoted a 
year later), Mr. Floyd supervised 11 full­
time and several part-time employees. He 
also coordinated the activities of the book- 
-buyers. always conscious of the needs and 
interests of Bookstore patrons.
Books currently in great demand are 
those dealing with “natural foods and 
ecology,” he explained. But there are two 
areas in which sales have always been high. 
Not surprisingly, consistent best sellers at 
CMU (excluding required texts) are 
scientific and technical books, and texts 
dealing with works of art. The scientific 
books, however, have always “outstripped 
the others by far.”
It is hard to imagine the CMU Book­
store stocked only with school supplies and 
books required for courses. But it wasn't 
until 1949, the year before Mr. Floyd came 
to work here, that a “trade-book line” was 
introduced. Until then, books and supplies 
were sold over the counter.
Until then, all sales were “over the 
counter,” he added. “CMU was one of the 
first self-service college bookstores in the 
country.”
Under Mr. Floyd’s leadership. The 
Bookstore continued to grow in response 
to customer needs.
“The store is really packed to 
capacity because we try to get in as many 
products as we possibly can to meet the 
needs of students,” he explained. “We 
remodeled the . store in 1967, and as a 
result were able to make the greeting card 
section bigger. When the Woodlawn 
Pharmacy went out of business, we put in 
drug sundries, such as soap, aspirin, and 
shampoo.”
With Polaroid film, pantyhose, and 
carob candy bars on Bookstore shelves, it's 
not quite thé same place it was when Mr. 
Floyd started to work in 1950.
4 i
Machine Shop who built it. Chuck Dorn,
uments. The two cameras for NIH were 
delivered last December and the two for 
Columbia University were picked up earlier 
this month.
The Machine Shop, which is located 
on the second floor of the Mellon Institute 
Building, is supervised by Sam Bradley. 
These particular cameras were constructed 
by Al Shubert and Chuck Dorn. The other 
skilled workmen in the completely 
equipped and versatile shop are Paul 
George, Stan Koinrosky, and Art 
Weissflogg.
Construction of the X-ray cameras is 
just one example of the complete metal 
working services provided by the Machine 
Shop staff. In addition to assisting with 
every stage of the construction process-- 
from design to production of an operating 
piece of equipment, they make engraved 
signs and nameplates, and repair existing 
instruments and equipment. Precision 
lathes, milling machines, welding equip­
ment. and ultrasonic and diamond drills are 
also available from the shop.
"Is Your 
Personal File 
Up-to-Date"
To insure that personal information 
contained in your personnel records is 
accurate, all changes should be reported to 
the Personnel Office.
This may be done by submitting a 
Personnel Action Notice to Personnel 
Advisory Services on the third floor of 
Warner Hall. It isn’t necessary to complete 
the entire form-only the area or areas in 
which changes have occurred. This form 
can be obtained from your department 
secretary.
Information that must frequently be 
revised includes your campus address and 
telephone number, job title, home address 
and telephone number, marital status, and 
number of dependents.
This data is essential to the main­
tenance of accurate tax deduction infor­
mation and benefits eligibility lists, as well 
as for the CMU Directory.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973
ENTERTAINMENT
J Ktiuru to Childhood With Buffalo Kob
Photo by Henry Collins
Buffalo Bob in the Ballroom
Film
Zhe Emigrants
by Win ton Snyder
“The Emigrants”, starring Max von Sydow 
and Liv Ullmann, directed by Jan Troell, 
screenplay by Jan Troell and Bengt 
Forslund
“The Emigrants” appears to be the 
most publicized and the most debated 
Foreign film to open in this country in 
some time. The publicity originates mostly 
from the effort to establish Liv Ullmann as 
an American screen persona prior to the 
release of “Lost Horizon” and “Forty 
Carats”, two films in which she stars. The 
culmination of all this public relations 
work came last week when “The 
Emigrants” received four academy award 
nominations.
The debate over “The Emigrants” is 
due to the U.S. distributor’s decision to 
circulate only half the film at one time, 
and even then to deletefifty-seven minutes. 
As originally put together by Troell, “The 
Emigrants” was a two part package, with 
each half lasting three and one half hours. 
Warner Brothers trimmed up part one and 
promises to do the same with part two if 
the first part fares well at the box office. 
The editing is immediately noticeable and 
upon reflection it seems to me that most of 
the cuts are in the opening reels.
The film begins with a survey of the 
hardships of Swedish farming and society 
that compelled Max von Sydow to lead a 
small band of peasants to America. Von 
Sydow, his wife and children, suffer 
through the long sea voyage and an assort­
ment of initial difficulties after reaching 
their destination. Part one closes with the 
immigrants establishing themselves in 
Minnesota. The portions of the beginning
that concern von Sydow’s youth and 
marriage are choppy and confusing because 
of the extensive cutting. Years of von 
Sydow’s life race by and the effect is dis­
turbing. The latter part of the film is less 
disjoint, but the only consistant element in 
the picture is the visual element.
The great visual strength of the 
picture lies in its ücredible photography. 
The color is always astounding and the 
shots are superbly framed. Troell uses 
montage and close camera movement to 
evoke appreciation of the earth. This 
inventive technique is extraordinary when 
coupled with an appropriate sound track. 
TroelPs greatness as a cinematographer is 
indisputable when the scene involves indivi­
duals set against natural surroundings. The 
director is not quite so great when he is 
handling larger objects. Still, “The 
Emigrants” is a truly beautiful picture.
The acting, while exceptional, some­
how never produces the one performance 
that would give the film distinction. 
Ullmann and von Sydow are as good as I 
expected them to be, but no better. No 
special quality is given to their characteri­
zations of peasants circa 1840. Troell, also, 
is unable to establish any real sense of the 
date. Token Indians and slaves are shuffled 
in and out of the American sequences and 
and amazingly out of place props (a steam 
loco, a paddle wheeler, and a silver dollar 
all of post Civil War vintage) abound, but 
no genuine concept of the period and its 
mannerisms is realized.
The greatest drawback of “The 
Emigrants” is the failure of its plot to 
generate interesting historical aspects. For 
Troell, plot devices as the peasant’s frus­
tration in Sweden, the hardship of the
by Debbie Siegel-
“Howdy-do Deb’* said Mr. Bob Smith 
who behind the scenes appears to be a 
warm grandpa, enjoying his travels around 
the country. But, take off the sport coat 
and wires, dig out the spangled red outfit 
from that first color show in 1955, and 
right before your eyes, “Hey kids, it’s time 
to play Howdy Doody”. It’s you out there, 
readers of the TARTAN who are the 
Howdy Doody generation. Do you re­
member the Mickey Mouse Club, singing 
Happy Trails to you with Roy Rogers and 
Dale Evans, George Reeves with Superman, 
and let’s not forget Captain Kangaroo? If 
this sounds familiar and you’re getting 
closer to the spirit of Howdy Doody, then 
remember the first Clarabel the Clown 
when Captain Kangaroo himself, Bob 
Keeshan, starred in that role. Buffalo Bob 
is psyched for helping us college kids 
“relive our happy, live, and carefree days”. 
He does this for a start by handing out 
tootsie rolls and Howdy Doody buttons. If 
you know your Howdy Doody trivia, you 
could win a giant size tootsie roll or better 
yet, an official T-shirt with Buffalo Bob 
and Howdy on the front.
The Howdy Doody television show 
began on December 27, 1947, and ran 
through till September 30, 1960, making a 
total of 2,543 appearances all live with 
audiences. During the years between the 
time Buffalo Bob went off the air and 
began his revival, he kept quite busy while 
in semi-retirement. “I didn’t do anything 
on a regular basis as far as radio and tele­
vision are concerned, but I have some 
business interests. I own several radio 
stations up in Maine and I have a liquor 
store in New Rochelle and I did some 
building down in Florida and I kept as 
busy as I wanted to be and enjoyed every 
minute of it until the resurgence came 
about, if that’s the word and since ’70, I’ve 
been on the road doing shows mostly for 
colleges and shopping malls which have 
become very big.” Buffalo Bob did a 
Howdy Doody show at Monroeville Mall 
last June and plans to return for another 
show this coming June. At these mall 
shows, Buffalo Bob sees the Howdy Doody 
alumni, 22 to 35 years and their children, 
“It’s good and wholesome comedy for kids 
and they like that”. To appeal to the three 
and four year olds, at the malls, Buffalo 
Bob brings Clarabel the Clown who is still 
played by Lou Anderson. He has been 
playing the part since 1954. Already 
Buffalo Bob has been to cover over two 
hundred colleges and is scheduled to cover 
sixty-five more in the next six months. In 
1970, some kids from the University of 
Pennsylvania contacted Buffalo Bob to do 
a show. At first, he didn’t know if they
voyage, and the initial disillusionment with 
America may be new, but for any 
American such devices are the oldest of 
hats. Through a mixture of the poor 
editing and apparent directorial intent 
“The Emigrants” is a series of small 
dramatic thrusts, lacking any cohesive 
quality--the barn fire-fade, dissolve-the 
destruction of the plow- fade, dissolve- the 
religious inquest- fade, dissolve-and so on. 
These dramatic thrusts are standard fare 
and have been treated many times before.
Originality of content is not a pre­
requisite for interest, but originality of 
viewpoint almost always is necessary. The 
viewpoint or bias provided by the director 
usually is some insight into human action 
or interaction. “The Emigrants” in spite of 
its fantastic beauty, does not promote any
were putting him on, but he decided to try 
it and took his suit out. The kids seemed to 
really enjoy themselves so he decided to 
nave a good time with college kids all 
around the country who grew up with 
Howdy Doody. At the college shows, 
Buffalo Bob is not trying to appeal to the 
children as he does in the malls. Until he 
can be on some national media, the Howdy 
Doody message couldn’t be popularized for 
the kids of this generation.
To my surprise, Buffalo Bob admitted 
that he is not a ventriloquist. In order to 
sing with Howdy duets, there were pre­
recorded tapes of Bob’s voice which he 
would co-ordinate to sing and speak with 
Howdy. Through lots of practice he 
learned to keep his lips moving in time 
with the tapes. Howdy is a complicated 
marionette and engineers are needed to 
control his mechanism. There have been 
two Howdys since 1947. As the first one 
was poorly assembled, they arranged for 
Howdy to have plastic surgery and another 
Howdy was assembled. Howdy was 
twenty-seven inches tall and is now residing 
in storage.
In response to the question are you 
tired of playing Howdy Doody, Buffalo 
Bob answered, “Well to be honest I’m 
pretty tired even now. On Thursday, I did 
a show in Western Michigan, it took four 
flights from Ft. Lauderdale to get to 
Michigan and then I did a show on Friday 
night in Alabama. It seems you get into the 
studio and the kids are all there in the 
Peanut Gallery champing at the bit to see 
Clarabel, Buffalo Bob and everybody else, 
you just sort of get turned on by the kids 
and you just seem to pick up a little extra 
talent.” Buffalo Bob was not influenced 
too much by other shows at the time 
because there was not time to see them. 
There were rehearsals all afternoon for the 
Howdy Doody Show and they were on the 
air during the time when the Mickey Mouse 
Club was on. There was no time to watch 
other shows. Buffalo Bob co-ordinated the 
show with the help of his producers, but he 
designed his act for the colleges himself. 
“The act, this is all my material, my come­
uppance, if that’s the word. Yea, this is my 
idea.” In addition to television shows and 
live appearances, Buffalo Bob made two 
records called Arrow Doodle and Laughing 
Circus. Through a “House-Party” format, 
the CMU audience enjoyed asking Buffalo 
Bob questions and getting high on balloons 
and tootsie rolls which Bob says “that’s a 
better thing to get high on then anything 
else. This show is purely nostalgia for the 
Howdy Doody Alumni. We just want them 
to have a good time.” If all goes well. 
Howdy Doody may be on television next 
fall.
better understanding of the human con­
dition. No^ point is made and no bias is 
provided. Granted the poor editing by 
Warner Brothers could have eliminated any 
conclusions Troell may have wanted to 
draw in his film. Yet nothing the editors 
left in indicates that what they removed 
would develop the missing bias or view­
point. Perhaps the second installment 
(usually titled “The New Land” in its 
American version) rises above a mere 
retelling of the events and reveals what 
Troell is really up to. “The Emigrants”, 
however, by itself, is composed mostly of 
redundant material that fails to either 
interest or entertain. After all the awards 
and the major build-up, finding “The 
Emigrants” to be an unctuous bore, was 
for me a disappointment.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 15
Theatre
by Susan N. Klein
Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night“ is a 
joyful pastiche of lyrical illusions of love, 
mellifluous melodies, wise fools, ignoble 
nobles, or simply what you will. As the 
Drama Department’s third mainstage 
production, it is a gentle gem buffed to its 
fullest gleam and set in a handsome golden 
couch of autumnal resplendency. We have 
a dynamic, robust, indeed, revolving 
staging, exquisite in its balanced contrast 
of the play’s wistful poetry and its 
boisterous, good-natured rowdiness.
The magic of this play lies in its 
complexity; it is at once an ode to the 
tenuousness of time and youth, and a 
festival of frivolity and frolic. Illyria, the 
mystic seacoast town teased by the wind 
and the rain, is the playground of some of 
Shakespeare’s most delightfully wrought 
characters. Jim Joy’s fetching con­
glomerate of spiral steps, platforms, 
placards, booths, and belfreys makes an apt 
home for the elusive proceedings. Com­
bined with John Pasquin’s adroit use of a 
cycloramic background and the flat 
revolving platform, the entire staging was 
delicate and smooth.
Pasquin’s love for the comedy inherent 
in Shakespeare is overt, and he is seemingly 
effortlessly adept at drawing every comic 
nuance from the play. But he never over­
steps the bounds, and he is careful not to 
let any of his characters take possession of 
the play. We emerge with an endearingly 
well-honed anthology of Shakespearean 
motifs, characters, and attitudes.
Revelling in all this are Shakespeare’s 
dandy characters, and we have quite a 
number of fine individual performances. 
“Twelfth Night” is the home of some of 
Shakespeare’s most interesting women, 
among them the masquerading Viola, 
played with eagerness and spirit by Anne 
Swift, and the semi-mourning countess 
Olivia, given a polished and deft portrayal
Zwelfth ¡Night
by Nancy Shultis. In contrast we have the 
braggarts of the bar, led by the bombastic 
Belch, played with brashy vivaciousness by 
Robert-Emmett Walz. David Alexander was 
perfection in the feverish foppishness of 
Aguecheek, and Michael Hagerty’s per­
formance as the absurd steward Malvolio, 
grinning and gartered, indignant and venge­
ful, was quite simply a treat to watch. 
Nancy Hendrickson made the most of the 
clever wench Maria, and Jim Monitor’s 
Fabian was fine. The comic aspects of the 
play, both in characterization and flashy 
movement, were indeed magically 
memorable.
The Duke’s court was well attended and 
nobly presided over by Tom Hegg as 
Orsino, and John Seeman’s Sebastian was 
at once refined and incredulous. Perhaps 
the most finely tempered of all perform­
ances was Sheldon Epps’ Feste, the sinister 
and menacingly wizened old fool. Epps 
spoke with spice and cynicism, sang with 
finesse, and his omnipresent, impish smirk 
made him an almost sinfully appealling 
fellow.
Joseph Byron’s lighting was an asset, as 
were the colorful and beautifully executed 
costumes designed by Lawrence A. Ropp. I 
was, however, somewhat disappointed by 
the spotty and rather poorly taped music. I 
would have much preferred something in 
the way of live flutes, recorders, and 
mandolins, since the tunes themselves 
sounded somewhat unambitious as scored.
The separate aspects of the production 
blend together and compliment one 
another flawlessly, although I must add 
that I enjoyed the second and third acts of 
the play much more than the first. But 
here we have a spritely production 
sparkling with vitality, buoyant and 
bawdy, energetic and attractive. John 
Pasquin, his cast, and his crew have truly 
acheived greatnesss.
MusicPrine
by Steve Perkins
A decade ago, folk music was one of the 
most vital forces in American culture. Folk 
music and folk musicians exerted a 
tremendous influence on the development 
of rock music and on the whole cultural 
alternative that developed around it. But 
somewhere along the line, folk music (or at 
least its contemporary interpreters) lapsed 
into triteness, sentimentality, and irrele­
vance. It became something that pseudo­
hip middle aged housewives could invoke 
to show their social consciousness.
Recently, however, an artist has energed 
who shows the promise of becoming the 
revitalizer of folk music in the 1970’s. His 
name is John Prine. A Chicagoan by birth, 
Prine was working as a mailman a little 
over a year ago; he now has recorded two 
fine albums and is being hailed by many as 
the new Bob Dylan. There is indeed some 
similarity to Dylan—Prine’s nasal delivery 
and rough-hewn guitar style are quite 
Dylanesque. John Prine’s music also has 
the sincerity and the same irrefutable mark 
of authenticity that Dylan’s does. Prine is a 
much more obvious product of the 
working class than Dylan, however. He uses 
simple, no-nonsense language, and usually 
does not get into the sort of mystical 
symbolism that Dylan was prone to use. 
John Prine writes songs depicting ordinary
people in starkly realistic terms and 
somehow manages to use old cliches in 
amazingly novel ways.
Despite his background, John Prine’s 
music has a distinctively down-home 
country flavor. This is not really so 
unusual, for country music has become the 
music of common Americans everywhere. 
Prine’s music doesn’t really resemble big 
production Nashville-type music, though. 
His arrangements usually consist only of 
his own rugged singing and guitar playing 
complimented by the subtle picking of 
David Bromberg or Steve Goodman.
Many of John Prine’s songs are as 
unusual in their conception as anyof 
Dylan’s, but Prine gets down to a much 
more personal level. Instead of a general 
war protest song like Dylan’s “Masters of 
War”, Prine writes of the young soldier 
who got blood on his high school ring or 
the father who comes home from Vietnam 
a junkie. Religion, love, and loneliness are 
also discussed at a specifically personal 
level with uncompromising realism.
Surprising enough, as I write this, very 
few people other than musicians and folk 
fanatics have even heard of John Prine. 
This is unfortunate indeed, for John Prine 
is one of the most unmistakably genuine 
artists to come along in years, and he has 
laughter and tears in store for everyone. In 
a workd full of 6ver-hyped transvestites 
like “Tranquility” it’s really good to know 
there are also people like John Prine.
Photos by Greg Nickel
Twelfth Night' on main stage

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Theatre
(Jreuse at fiiwn
by Nonie Dempsey
“Grease”, written by Jim Jacobs and 
Warren Casey, is everything its title 
suggests: the 50’s, complete with poodle 
skirts and bobby socks, black leather 
jackets and songs with 000OOO000.0.0.0 
at the end. For some of the theatre-goers 
last Monday night, as was evident from 
embarassed chuckles and even a few 
shouted comments, it was an evening of 
nostalgia. Yet, even if one was outside the 
magic age group (27 to 42) of people who 
were teenagers in the 50’s (I only 
remembered the Mickey Mouse ears), 
“Grease” was an entertaining, funny show.
Unlike “Bye, Bye Birdie”, “Grease” 
shows the somewhat seamier side of teen­
age life in the 50’s. The wholesome youth 
of Sweet Apple, Ohio are replaced by the 
Burger Palace Boys with flashing pocket 
combs and slicked back hair, and the Pink 
Ladies who know how to smoke and drink 
and pierce ears at slilmber parties. Rizzo 
gets pregnant, Roger goes “mooning” and 
Frenchy (why, wherever did she get that 
name?) drops out before she has time to 
flunk again, and goes to beauty school.
The plot (unfortunately, just a minor 
detail) centers around sweet Sandy 
Dumbrowski, recent transfer from 
Immaculata High, who’s after the 
affections of Zuko, long, skinny, typical
greaser. When Sandy admits that she has 
led a sheltered life, the Pink Ladies come 
to the rescue and generously show her the 
ropes. By the finale, Sandy looks just like 
one of the gang.
“Grease” was funniest in its un­
spoken elements, all the greasers constantly 
nodding their heads (“Hey, we’re cool”), 
the wild, rocking dances, and Zuko’s spasti- 
cally jerking arms and legs each time Sandy 
came into view.
The music was very appropriately 
written; every song sounded just like the 
last. From my seat in the balcony, the 
lyrics, on the whole, were indistinguishable 
and I can only guess at what followed 
“Look at me, I’m Sandra Dee, Lousy with 
Virginity” and other big titles such as “It’s 
Raining on Prom Night” and “Beauty 
School Dropout”.
The stage was trimmed with blow­
ups of senior high pictures taken twenty 
years ago; the set was three huge photo­
graphs plus moveable stairways, tables and 
chairs. The pictures provided the perfect 
atmosphere, girls smiling far-away smiles 
under bee hive hairdos, boys grinning out 
from under horrendous pompadours.
“Grease” is hardly a classic, but it is 
a fun show, especially if you own a pair of 
saddle shoes.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
UUJANGOTANDTHíMCVIfó
ONE AFTERNOON ONLY 
Saturday, February 24 • 2:30 P.M. • Heinz Hall
Miss Gish, in person, tells about her great career in 
Hollywood, the early days, the films she made, the 
celebrities who starred with her. The clips she uses 
as illustration are from films that are now the great 
movie classics'.
Tickets: $2.50, $3.50, $4.50
at Hein/ Hall Box Office (281-5000), Gimbels, 
Horne's, Kaufmann's and National Record Marts. 
20% discount to students <it Heinz Hall Box Office.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FC
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING
mha re/é*h Oéda Pn//at mhantaá
Moscow International Competition Gold Medal Winners
Tues., March 6 at 8:30 p.m., HEINZ HALL
Modern, lyrical, vital and frequently erotic, 29 
dancers, create their own near magical language 
by means of movement, images, light and sound.
"Unlike anything we usually see" . . . The London
Daily Mail
Tickets: $4.00, $5.00, $6.00
at Heim Hall Box Office (I8W-Nttt!, Gimbels, Horne's, Kaufmann's 
and National Record Marts.
It% discount to students with Wt at Heim Hall box Office.
uW KTTTTTMDKdJJueHEINZ HAIL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING
Film
Kays and ¿wards
by Doug Stone
“The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in- the-Moon Marigolds”, starring Joanne Woodward, Nell Potts, and Roberta Wallach, produced and directed by Paul Newman; screenplay by Alvin Sargent, based on the play by Paul Zindel.
“The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man- 
in-the-Moon Mangolds” is a movie which I 
would have preferred not to have seen, not 
that it is one of those unbearable grade B 
movies, and not that it attempts to be too 
intellectual for my tastes. It is simply 
uninteresting. “Marigolds” could have been 
effectively condensed into a half hour 
performance and would have been much 
easier to suffer through. There probably is 
meaning in “Marigolds”, but there is not 
enough to justify making a long movie.
The story concerns Beatrice Hunsdorfer 
(Joanne Woodward) and her two daughters 
(Nell Potts and Roberta Wallach), and their 
attempts to hammer out a life in the midst 
of poverty. Beatrice thinks the world is out 
to get her. One daughter is turning into a 
carbon copy of herself, and the other is a 
budding high school scientist. The movie 
revolves around Beatrice and her scientist 
daughter as the daughter works on a 
project for a science fair, and Beatrice 
dreams about a small restaurant that serves 
a good good cheesecake. It doesn’t take 
long to realize that the daughter is more 
mature than the mother, and by then the 
point of the picture has already been made. 
The rest of the movie only serves to 
reiterate that point.
The performances by Roberta Wallach 
and Nell Potts are by and la^ge good, 
though the characters that they play are 
sometimes discontinuous and out of touch 
with the rest of the movie. Joanne 
Woodward gives a very uneven perform­
ance and often resorts to shrieking to 
convey some sort of message.
I find it hard to say much more due to 
the fact that I couldn’t keep my attention 
on the movie while viewing it.
Academy Awards 1973
This year’s selections for the major 
Academy Award nominations came as no 
real surprise. 1 was certain that “The 
Godfather”, “Deliverance”, “Cabaret”, and 
“Sounder” would be chosen as nominees 
for best picture. The fifth choice, “The 
Emmigrants”, amazed me, though. I saw 
“The Emmigrants” recently and have never 
been so thoroughly bored in my life, with 
the possible exception of sitting through 
the Russian version of “War and Peace”. 
Evidently I was not alone, as a good part of 
the audience departed before half the 
picture was over. I believe a picture worthy 
of the title “best picture”, should have
good movie. “The Godfather” bases its 
success on sensationalism, and not on 
achievement in art, as ‘do both “De­
liverance” and “Cabaret”. This is not to 
say that there is no place for movies of 
“Godfather’s” genre. Indeed any movie 
that grosses over eighty million dollars in 
its first year of release must be worthwhile 
enough for so many people to have paid to 
see it. Rather, “The Godfather” is just not 
deserving of the title best picture. In a 
similar sense, “The French Connection” 
was not the best picture of 1972. The 
trend nowadays though seems to be to give 
the title best picture to the most successful 
film, and if this is the criterion, “The 
Godfather” certainly deserves to win.
In other major categories I can’t make 
predictions as to what will happen, having 
not seen some of the movies. I do however 
have personal preferences for having actors 
and actresses not receive awards. These 
include Eddie Albert for his non-acting in 
“The Heartbreak Kid”, and Shelly Winters 
in “The Poseidon Adventure”. I have a 
special reason for singling out Shelly 
Winters even though I didn’t see “The 
Poseidon Adventure”, and that is because 
she has convinced me through repeated 
demonstrations of poor acting (such as in 
her landmark performance in “Wild in the 
Streets”) that any good acting she does is 
just luck, not talent.
Here is a list of this year’s major award 
nominations.
Best Picture; “The Godfather”, “Cabaret”, 
“Sounder”, “Deliverance”, and “The 
Emmigrants”.
Best Actor: Marlon Brando for “The
Godfather”, Michael Caine and Sir 
Lawrence Olivier for “Sleuth”, Peter 
O’Toole for “The Ruling Class”, and Paul 
Winfield for “Sounder”.
Best Actress; Liza Minelli for “Cabaret”, 
Diana Ross for “Lady Sings the Blues”, 
Maggie Smith for “Travels with My Aunt”, 
Cicely Tyson for “Sounder”, and Liv 
Ullman for “The Emmigrants”.
Best Supporting Actor: James Cann,
Robert Duvall, and A1 Pacino for “The 
Godfather”, Joel Gray for “Cabaret”, and 
Eddie Albert for “The Heartbreak Kid”. 
Best Supporting Actress: Shelly Winters for 
“The Poseidon Adventure”, Jeannie Berlin 
for “The Heartbreak Kid”, Eileen Heckert 
for “Butterflies Are Free”, Geraldine Page 
for “Pete and Tillie”, and Susan Terrell for 
“Fat City”.
broad appeal. It shouldn’t be a film that 
one third of the audience walks out on.
The movie that I believe will win the 
Oscar this year is “The Godfather”, 
undoubtedly due to the fact that it is the 
most successful film ever (yes folks, even 
more than “Gone With the Wind”). I don’t, 
however, concede that “The Godfather” is 
the best picture. In my opinion, both 
“Cabaret” and “Deliverance” have far 
more to offer in terms of contribution to 
the art of filmmaking than does 
“Godfather”. I take issue with “The 
Godfather” because its success lies on a 
hugely successful book, not because it is a
There is a unique opportunity for personal enrichment available to you on 
the CMU campus. That opportunity is Mortar Board. Unlike other similar 
organizations, Mortar Board, the senior women's honorary, is distinctive 
in its goals and in the type of experience that is offers. Any CMU woman 
who will be a senior next semester or who will have completed 5/8ths of 
college her work, and currently has at least a 3.00 Q.P.A. is eligible for 
membership. If you are interested in becoming a part of Mortar Board next 
year, then we cordially invite you to attend ameeting on Sunday, March 4th, 
at 7:00 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room in Skibo. We hope that you will 
be able to come, RSVP by February 26th by either leaving your name, 
major, and mailing address at the information desk in Skibo, or by calling, 
Jan Polansky, between 7:00-9:00 p.m. at 372-2576.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973—Page 17
Design Department Shows Animated Films
by Jay Corpus
On February 23, the Design Depart- 
>ment will sponsor a program of ten works 
by the experimental Canadian animator 
Norman McLaren whose innovations in the 
kinetic image have caused Picasso to call 
t them a new dimension in the art of 
drawing. The main idea throughout 
McLaren’s films is the investigation of form 
evolution rather than form conclusion, the 
narrative sequence being only a vehicle for 
visual exploration. These explorations in­
clude direct drawing on blank film 
(“Dots”, “Lines”),cut-out animation (“le 
Merle”), scratching on film emulsion to 
produce both soundtrack and image 
(“Mosaic”), film superimposition (“Pas de 
Deux”), and pastel “working-drawing” ani­
mation (“Le Merle”). In one of the films, 
“An Interview with McLaren,” the artist 
describes and demonstrates his processes 
) with film excerpts illustrating each 
method. The entire series is, in effect, a 
capsule history of McLaren’s work with the 
National Film Board of Canada.
McLaren’s films are an example of a 
reality existing only on a celluloid surface 
with no attempts to mirror so-called 
“social reality”, except perhaps in the case 
of “Neighbors” which deals with a simple J parable. Even in that film however, the 
emphasis is on image and change rather 
than allegory. In a work like “Pas de 
Deux” this film reality consists of super­
imposed changes through time, generated 
by the movement of live dancers, often 
resembling the handling of a theme in a 
musical fugue. Another exclusively film 
reality is the creation of music (sound in
0
time) by means of drawing on the sound­
track surface of blank film footage. In 
“Mosaic” McLaren combines this sonic- 
graphic technique (a new musical notation) 
with his animation to create a sight and 
sound relationship totally unique to film 
experience. As the entire series illustrates, 
McLaren’s art is the celebration of the 16 
mm. film in its most natural state to date;
this film reality should be provocative 
experience for anyone interested in the 
film medium or modern theater as seeing 
and listening. McLaren’s films have the 
ability to absorb, interrupt and outrage. 
Response to this reality is seldom passive 
and almost always involves changing con­
cepts of what film is or might be.
The McLaren Series is the 3rd part of
a four-part Contemporary American and 
Canadian Film Series which is sponsored 
by PPG Foundations and the Design De­
partment. Films will be shown in Breed 
Hall, MMCC from 9:00 to 11:30 a.m. on 
Friday, February 23. Next Friday the final 
series will include animated shorts from the 
National Film Board of Canada. Admission 
to all programs is free.
1*1 O Z X O m
? 3
m
mso
</>
o
>
IF YOU’RE INTERESTED IN A CAREER 
OFFORTUNITY IN THE FIELD OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING ftlTH 
SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON AIR AND 
WATER FOLLUTI ON CONTROL, WE 
INVITE YOU TO INVESTIGATE 
FOSITIONS WITH US IN RESEARCH, 
DEVELOPMENT, AND FROCESS DESIGN 
ENGINEERING. OUR RECRUITER «ILL 
BE ON CAMPUS FOR INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY 22 AND 23.
RADIAN CORPORATION , AUSTIN, TX.
o
o
The CMUActivities Board Presents-
IN CONCERTTHEBYRDSandORPHAN
Mflr. 3 at 7 and 
10 P.M. 
CMUGymnasium
Tickets $4.50
$3.50 With CMU I.D.
HOLDiLTiJ LIf
WtDTA VNGAMELIDAN wJPt 
ßDII WISBJNI êNDAN 
wSmSJPNJ WISBJNI êNDAN 
rJLBP .AFJIUJM DN 
WmSDMMJi rDii
THE BEST OF THE BYRDS
GREATEST HITS, VOLUME il

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973
SPORTS
Frank Sacco (42) tips while (left to right) Mike Wegener, Gary Rentsch 
and Tom Kuhar wait.
Photo by Nick Lardas
Tartans Still Hunt Second Win
by Glenn Campbell
A quiet revolution is occurring in 
college sports at Oberlin University, a 
frequent opponent of Carnegie-Mellon's. 
Jake Scott, a man with a radical approach 
to sport, was appointed athletic director in 
1972. Before coming to Oberlin Scott 
wrote “Athletics for Athletes” and “The 
Athletic Revolt” books which outline his 
view of sport’s role in modern society. 
Scott also founded the Institute for the 
Study of Sport and Society and taught a 
course on sports at the University of 
Washington. Scott is a radical whose 
theories are anathema to most college 
sports administrators.
It appeared that Scott’s theories would 
never be put into practice. But the presi­
dent of Oberlin, looking at his school’s 
failing athletic program and intrigued by 
Scott’s theories, decided to give him a 
chance.
This controversial appointment shocked 
many of Oberlin’s coaches, some of whom 
tendered their resignations. This worked to 
Scott’s favor, allowing him to appoint 
coaches and administrators who thought 
like him. Now Oberlin is being watched 
very closely by other schools, many hoping 
Scott falls flat on his theories.
Exactly who is this modern day Karl 
Marx, as not a few sports officials have 
dubbed Scott. Jake Scott was a better than 
average athlete in track in Syracuse, but 
never the big star. His intensity was 
remarkable and while running all those 
practice miles he began to think about 
some of the phony aspects of college 
sports. When he wanted to practice on his 
own because he felt the coach wasn’t
by Greg Mason
Although the 1973 Tartan wrestlers 
couldn’t come up with a victory this 
season, the future certainly looks brighter. 
Coach Paul Steva’s grapplers went 0-13 this 
year only their third year of interscholastic 
competition. The young Tartans always 
fought hard, but couldn’t grasp that elusive
helping him to improve, his scholarship was 
taken away. He transferred to Berkeley, 
then a hotbed of protest and free-thinking. 
There his personality was formed by 
associations with other athletes and stu­
dents of similar views. He got a master’s 
degree and became a phys. ed. instructor.
A typical Scott appointee was Tommie 
Smith as coach of basketball and track.# 
Smith was one of the great runners in thè 
world a few years ago, but now he is 
remembered for his Black Power salute at 
the 1968 Olympics. He was blackballed by 
most of sport but Scott is giving him a 
chance to coach. No one can tell yet if 
Scott’s appointments will have the desired 
effects at Oberlin. He has already 
strengthened the women’s sports program 
and more students are enrolled in phys. ed. 
because of Scott’s new courses.
Carnegie-Mellon and other schools 
should take a close look at OberlirT. Sport 
can play a very positive role in learning, 
perhaps more then any other extra­
curricular activity, and in this age of 
big-money college sports Scott’s athletics 
for athletes approach should be practiced.
In a few yeats he was well-known 
because of his books and his influence on 
some athletes. His view that athletes should 
run their sports, unshackled by phony rules 
about amateurism and coaches who only 
care about winning, was naturally opposed 
by the old guard. This doesn’t mean Scott 
likes to lose. Scott was and is a fierce 
competitor, but to him the competition is 
what counts. He wants his teams to do well 
but he realizes- sport is only a game and we 
have let it become too prominent in 
American society. (Johnny Majors take 
note.)
First victory.
The first year of PAC competition took 
its toll on C-MU and injuries plagued our 
inexperienced wrestlers. The only match 
winners of the season werev.Mike Veltri, 
118 pouiyis. awd Vic Kogeri^ ^>7. the only 
two no;i-fresl\m^ ^1», team; and Mitch 
Lapmah: 177. and "Brad Morrow. 134. All 
the matmen, however, put forth extra-
by Roger Geddes
In last week’s action for the varsity 
basketball team, Carnegie-Mellon came 
through with two very commendable 
performances. However, they lost both of 
those games to Washington and Jefferson 
College and Denison University by close 
margins and also lost to Marietta, this time 
by a large margin.
Against Denison Saturday, nothing 
seemed to go as planned from the playing 
of the Star-Spangled Banner to the finish 
of the game. C—MU kept the score close 
for about three quarters of the game. The 
score at the half saw Denison in front 
37-32 but C—MU came out of the locker 
room to cut that lead to 3 with a quick 
basket. But with Sacco and Domenick 
fouling out of the game, Denison increased 
their lead from 3 points to 14 points and 
the game ended 81-58 in favor of Denison. 
Sacco led the Tartans with 15 points while 
Jordan, Rentsch and Domenick each had
10.
The Tartans played one of their closest 
games of the year against Washington and 
Jefferson last Thursday. The lead of the 
game changed hands 14 times in the first 
half and in the second half the score was
period entertainment before succumbing to 
ordinary efforts to make practice and 
showed dramatic improvement as the 
season progressed.
The season’s last match against Grove 
City, was exciting for the home fans even 
though C-MU lost, 45-9. After a forfeit by 
Grove City, A1 McCurdy provided fine first 
his lack of experience. Brad Morrow, 
C-MU’s only winner; followed with a 
decision over his man, and John Urik, 142, 
Den O’Connell, 150, and Tom Veltri, 158, 
furnished lively middle weight action. 
Rogers and Lapman could not unfortun­
ately come up with the big points when 
they were needed, and two forfeits by the 
Tartans closed the bout and the season.
Still vying for individual honors, some 
of the wrestlers will be headed for Hiram, 
Ohio, this Friday to battle in the PAC 
Championships. The regular season has 
ended, dismally perhaps, but the Tartans 
do have hope for the future. Almost 
entirely freshmen, the team may possibly 
be joined by sonje blue-chippers next year. 
In any case, the basically untrie4:wrestlers 
of this season will have a year behind 
them.
tied 7 times. »
C—MU went in at half-time with a 2 
point lead, 38-36, as Sacco connected on a 
jumpshot with three seconds left on the 
clock. Through the second half, W & J 
maintained a small lead until Domenick’s 
two points put C-MU into the lead, 60-58, 
with 7:29 left to play. But W & J then sank 
three straight field goals and with a three 
point play, the deficient was now seven 
points, the widest margin the game had 
seen. Then with four minutes left to play, 
6’6” Frank Sacco departed from the game 
with 5 fouls and the height advantage of W
& J was increased. The final score was 
79-72. Ralph Domenick paced the team 
with 23 points while Wegener had 18 
points. Gary Rentsch also added 15 and 
Sacco had 10 with 10 rebounds.
The game against Marietta was not 
nearly as bright as the other two games. 
C—MU could only manage 10 points in the 
first half and lost the game 83-46. Mike 
Wegener led the team with 10 points as the 
Tartan’s record dipped to 1-17 overall.
In action this week, C-MU will face 
Allegheny, Monday away, league-leading 
Hiram, Wednesday away, and then return 
home to meet Hiram again at 2:00 p.m. 
Saturday.
Photo by Nick Lardas
Gary Rentsch with a jumper
Tartan Vic Rodgers squares off against a Grove City opponent
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Dismal Year Ends for Wrestlers

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 20, 1973— Page 19
Women Cagers With 
Winning Record
by Sybelle Mryczko
On February 6th, the Tech women 
swept Penn State (Fayette) with a 
tremendous 46-20 victory. The C—MU 
team jumped off to an early first quarter 
lead, 12-1. By halftime the Tech team had 
far outdistanced the game P.S.U.F. team, 
28-7. Due to this rather lopsided lead Miss 
Fisk, the Tartan coach, was able to play 
the second team for a good part of the 
second half. Consequently most of the 
team was able to get on the board.
Scoring: Elly Zimmerman, 12; Marty 
Lisberger, 10; Cindy Whitmore, 8; Sybelle 
Mryczko, 8; Pat Salapow,2; Linda 
Ackerman, 2; Sandy La Pietra, 2; Pat 
Berry, 2.
Riding high, but with guard Pat Salapow 
absent, the Tech women took on the tough 
Pitt Panthers. In a very physical game, 
C-MU took the lead for a short time. 
Despite an aggressive defense, the team 
went down 5-15 by the end of the first 
quarter. Remaining tough, giving basket for 
basket, C-MU could not overtake the 
charging Panthers. The C—MU women fell 
further behind, unable to keep up the 
pace—Cindy Whitmore had a cold hand, 
scoring only twice on foul shots. The 
C-MU women’s basketball team left Pitt 
still still looking for that first victory 
against the Panthers.
Scoring: Elly Zimmerman, 12; Marty 
Lisberger, 9; Cindy Whitmore, 2; Fran 
Pauley, 2.
The February 10th Bethany-C—MU 
game slipped away from Tech as did many 
of the teams passes. Poor foul shooting 
(less than 35%) also accounted for the 
46-31 defeat at the Irands of a better than 
average Bethany team. At one point in the 
fourth quarter C-MU crept within 2 points 
but were unable to sustain their 
momentum. With experience the passing 
should improve and tech looks forward to 
a re-match next year.
Scoring: Cindy Whitmore, 19; Elly
INTERESTED 
IN AN 
INTERNATIONAL 
CAREER?
Mr. Thomas E. Reber, Jr
will be on the campus
Wednesday,
March 7, 1973
to discuss qualifications for 
advanced study at 
THUNDERBIRD 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities 
in the field of 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Interviews may be scheduled at 
Bureau of Placements
THUNDERBIRD 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Glendale, Arizona 85301
Affiliated with 
The American Management Association
Zimmerman, 5; Marty Lisberger, 4; Fran 
Pauley, 3.
Anxious to renew their winning streak 
the C—MU women’s basketball team 
soundly defeated Carlow 46-31. C-MU 
jumped to an early 13-1 first quarter lead 
despite a crack up involving star forward 
Cindy Whitmore and a Carlow defensive 
player. Carlow choked the Tech offense 
while penetrating the defense and were 
only down 4 points by the half. Linda 
Ackerman was high scorer with 2. 
Refreshed after half-time oranges, Cindy 
Whitmore and Elly Zimmerman bounced 
back with 8 and 7 points respectively. The 
fourth quarter saw the Tech women match 
Carlow basket for basket to maintain a 15 
point lead.
Scoring: C. Whitmore, 13; E.
Zimmerman, 12; M. Lisberger, 10; R. 
Potts, 4; L. Ackerman, 3; F. Pauley, 2; B. 
Toole, 2.
On Saturday, February 17th, the Tech 
women brought their season’s record to 4-3 
at Geneva’s expense. Cindy Whitmore 
starred again, putting in 11 in the first 
quarter while the tough Geneva women 
were held by the Tech defense to only 6.
Geneva opened up in the second quarter 
with 11 while holding C-MU to 6. But 
Tech remained cool and kept ahead of the 
ever charging Geneva team. As the game 
entered the fourth quarter Tech was only 
up by 7. Time and again Geneva came 
within a basket of the C-MU women, but 
the defense, led by guard Sybelle Mryczko 
and Fran Pauley held, while crucial baskets 
were supplied by center Elly Zimmerman 
and forwards Cindy Whitmore and Marty 
Lisberger. Each one was greeted 
uproariously by the fired up C-MU team. 
The game remained close, decided only in 
the last seconds when a Geneve player 
missed one of two free throws. Final score 
read Tech 38, Geneve 37 and 
pandemonium reigned.
Scoring: Cindy Whitmore, 21; Marty 
Lisberger, 12; Elly Zimmerman, 5.
Sunday Hours 
For Gym
As of Sunday, Feb. 25, 1973, the gym­
nasium will be open between 1:00 p.m. 
and 5:00 p.m. on a trial basis. Turnout will 
determine whether or not the gym remains 
open on Sundays.
I.M. Races 
Get Together
by Dave List
C-MU’s intramural basketball season is 
now in its next-to-last week of regular 
season play. Even still, it is too early to 
pick the winners in most of the sections.
Last week, in the majors, there was little 
change in the standings. However, Radic’s 
Raiders, won two more important ball- 
games to give themselves more of an edge 
over the third and fourth place teams. Salt 
& Pepper won their game to stay in second 
place, right behind Radic’s Raiders.
In the intermediate division, there 
appear to be several close finishes 
developing. The Morewood Gups are 
leading the Warriors section of the Western 
Division. Their closest rival, the Purple 
Avengers, has two more losses than the 
Gups. However, the Gups have yet to play 
the Players and the Purple Avengers, who 
might well ruin their bid for an undefeated 
season. In the Lakers section of the 
Western Division, the Purple Gnurples are 
erne game away from clinching the section 
title. In the event of the season ending with 
the Purple Gnurples and the Players having 
identical records, the Purple Gnurples 
would claim the title because they have 
already defeated the Players earlier this 
season. However, a loss by the Purples 
Gnurples could cause the team to finish in 
third place without a playoff berth. In the 
Bullets section of the Central Division, the 
Polish Patriots and PKT “A” are trying to 
separate themselves from the rest of their 
section. The Hawks section is extremely 
close with four teams still battling for the 
two playoff spots. Should PKA “A” and 
the Black Magic Bloods tie for first place, 
PKA “A” would receive it because they 
have previously beaten the Black Magic 
Bloods. However, the Booahs and Buds 
have only one less loss and may still get 
into the playoffs.
The playoff spots in the Bulls section of 
the minor leagues appear to be locked up. 
Skid Row and Happy Jacks are both 
undefeated and have two less losses than 
the Truckers who are in third place. The 
Bucks section has still not played half of its 
games so it is too early to declare anyone 
the winner. The PKT Rhinos and In­
decision Industries are both undefeated 
with the PKT Rhinos having one more win.
This Tuesday, at 9:00 p.m. on Court D, 
the Rangatangs and the Purple Avengers 
will be playing against each other in the 
game that may decide who gets into 
playoffs in their section.
C-MU INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL 
STANDINGS
I. MAJOR LEAGUES
Arby’s
1973 Roast Beef at 1958 Burger Prices.
Arby’s. The 4 hour Sandwich is only 
¦5 minutes away. 
4
Arby’s 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
"Coupon Valid Now Through Sunday, 
© February 25, 1973.'
TEAM
1. Radic’s Raiders
2. Salt & Pepper
3. Black Magics
4. Wild Bunch
5. GS1A
6. BTP “A”
7. Roaches
8. Scrow
9. Mothers
10. BTP Z
11. SAE “A”
12. ATO “A”
13. 01 Men
II INTERMEDIATE LEAGUES 
Western Division
WARRIORS
TEAM
1. Morewood Gups
2. Purple Avengers
3. Rangatangs
4. TDP
5. DU
6. ROTC
7. SAE “B”
LAKERS
TEAM
1. Purple Gnurples
2. Players
3. Over the Hill
4. Shrinks
5. Oakland A’s
6. Grey’s Gonads
7. Fringe B
Central Division
BULLETS
TEAM
1. Polish Patriots
2. PKT “A”
3. KS Jags
4. The Dec 5
5. Tarmac
6. Commuter Gaz
7. ATO
HAWKS
TEAM
1. PKA “A”
2. Black Magic Bloods
3. Booahs
4. Buds
5. Pedora Heights
6. KS Drags
7. SN
111. MINOR LEAGUES 
BUCKS
TEAM
1. PKT Rhinos
2. lndecision Ind.
3. Scobell “2”
4. Sloof
5. Mosquitos
6. Delphins
7. PKT Mooses
BULLS
W-L
7-0
8-1 
8-2 
7-2 
5-3 
4-3 
4-5 
2-4 
2-5 
2-6 
2-7 
2-7 
0-8
W-L
6-0
5-2
4-2
2-5
2-6
1-5
1-6
W-L
7-1
7-1
4-2
5-3 
4-4 
1-4 
1-7
W-L
7-1
5-1
3-2
3-4
2-3
1-7
1-7
W-L
6-1
6-1
5-2
4-2
2-3
1-5
0-8
W-L
2-0
1-0
1-1
ipyoght 1971 Marketing & M
TEAMW-L
1. Skid Row5-0
2. Happy Jacks3-0
3. Truckers3-2
4. McGilldoes
5. EZ-Beefers1-2
6. DTDW-f
7. APO Lobsterst-f
8. PKA B0-3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 20, 1973
Everybody’s talking about pollution,
Woodsy Owl
has 104 ways to stop it.
Sure.
We all know how awful pollution is. And we all know 
that we have to start soon if we’re going to save America. 
But where do we start? And how?
Some of the answers are right on this page. Woodsy, 
the nation’s antipollution owl, came up with 104 things that 
you and your family and neighbors can do. Today.
Tear out this page. Read it. Remember it. And make 
sure that everybody gets a good look at it. Even tack it up 
on a bulletin board. Remember. It’s up to all of us to fight 
for our environment. We only have one earth. Let’s make 
sure it's here for our children, and their children to enjoy.
No. I I. cam these Wood>y Owl "Hoots.” loll other' ;ibout 
Woodsy Owl, and encourage them to help in our fight against 
pollution.
No. 2 Collect cans, i art lies and paper- and take them to the 
nearest recycling center If there i- no recycling center near you. 
contact your local city or county offices and encourage the estab­
lishment of -uch centers.
No. 3 Encourage Public Service groups to arrange for the col­
lection of trash in your home town for recycling.
No. 4 Separate your household trash. Smash cans and pul m 
one lx>x: tattles in another; papers m another. This makes recycling 
easier.
No. 5 Don't throw away old clothes and furniture. Give them 
to someone who can use them or repair and sell. Every thing that 
doesn't land in ihe trash pile means that much less to lx' burned or 
disposed of in some wav.
No. 6 Start an "ecology cupboard''in your home. Store reusable 
items like string, paper, boxes, cartons, plastic containers, ribbon, 
varn. Reuse them before discarding. Be sure storage is neat and safe.
No. 7 Encourage companies to discover ways to reuse or safely 
dispose- of plastic products. Right now, the only way to dispose of 
plastic is by incineration. This adds to our air pollution problems.
No. 8 Encourage companies to raise the bottle-deposit sum to 
encourage the return of bottles.
No. 9 When possible, ride your bike or walk to meetings, 
school, work. etc.; encourage others to do the same
No. 10 Form car pools and share the ride to work, school, 
meetings, etc.; encourage others to do the same.
No. 11 Press for action by automobile manufacturers to pro­
duce a smog-free engine.
No. 12 Ask for low-lead or no-lead gasoline for your car.
No. 13 Keep your engine properly tuned iapproximately 
every 10.000 miles1. Encourage others to do the same. This cuts 
down on exhaust emissions and helps reduce air pollution.
No. 14 Keep boat engines properly tuned and encourage others 
to keep theirs tuned also. An improperly tuned boat engine causes 
more petroleum wastes to gointo the water and air.
No. 15 Encourage your fishermen friends to pick up their old 
fishing line or someone else’s i. If left on the ground it can kill or in­
jure birds and small animals.
No. 16 When you take photographs, pick up used film packs. 
The packs form litter and some chemicals in the packs can poison 
animals.
No. 17 Encourage everyone to "Take only pictures. .Leave 
only Footprints."
No. 18 Put metal tabs from drink cans and plastic carriers for
-lx-packs m trash cans. They are hazardous to animals as well as 
being a litter problem
No. 19 Keep your transistor1 radio v numc set moderately 
Noise is a form of pollution too.
No. 20 Encourage local officials to reduce noise pollution along 
freeways and heavily travelled streets by proper tree and shrub 
plantation-.
No. 21 Encourage everyone, including local park officials, to 
plant just mu more tree or shrub. Trees play a major part m puri­
fying air; the oxygen they release dilutes pollution in the air. Trees 
also help regulate temperatures; tree transpiration cools the air like 
a gigantic air conditioner.
No. 22 As k Mom, when she does the family wash, to measure 
detergents carefully, using only enough to get clothes dean.
No. 23 Place small pieces of leftover soap in a piece of Mom's 
discarded nylon hose; give it to a child to bubble up their bath. This 
use« up bits of -oap. recycles the piece of nylon hose and cleans the 
younger generation, all at the same time!
No. 24 Run your dishwasher only once a day. or less, depend­
ing on size of your family. This helps to conserve water.
No. 25 Put a brick m your tank! A brick in your toilet tank 
reduces the amount of water used to flush.
No. 26 Turn water faucets off firmly to stop leaking and con­
serve water.
No. 27 Don’t leave garden hoses and faucets running for long 
periods of time. Leave lawn sprinklers on just long enough to water 
grass thoroughly but not iong enough for water to run-off down 
the street.
No. 28 Don't throw trash in streams, iakes. rivers and oceans; 
it belongs in a trash can, not in our water supplies.
No. 29 Don't hide your trash in the snow. When the snow 
melts in the spring, you'll he the cause of -ight and water pollution.
No. 30 Are there adequate litter containers 411 your city parks, 
schools and nearby recreation areas? If not, discu-s the matter with 
public officials; offer 1.0 help obtain u-ed oil drums Service stations 
will often donate drums 1; clean, paint and decorate them with 
Woodsy's slogan "Give A- Hoot I km't Pollute."
No. 31 Keep beaches, parks and roadsides clean. I'rge your 
friends to do the same.
No. 32 Organize "Hooter Patrol" and, with the aid of the 
members, look for pollution problems 111 your area. Then lake 
action to stop these problems.
No. 33 Don’t spray paint 011 rocks, fences or buildings. This 
causes sight pollution and makes a countryside or city street ugly
No. 34 Picking plants and wildflowers leaves the land bare, 
uglv and subject to erosion. Leave them there for all to share!
No. 35 Read instructions;md con tents carefully before buying 
any kind of pesticide.
No. 36 Use chemical pesticides sparingly. Follow directions 
carefully.
No. 37 Pull your lawn weeds out by hand. This-is good, 
healthful exercise and eliminates the need for applying herbicides.
No. 38 Dispose of excess pesticides and their containers ac­
cording to instructions on the label or advice of County Agents 
Keep ’em out of drains and water.
No. 39 A verage air fresheners and deodorizers are a lot strong­
er. chemically, than their names imply. Open windows and doors 
to let in fresh air; thi- will do much to rid your home of offensive 
odors
No. 40 Several bowls of vinegar placed 111 a smoke-laden 
room will clear the air quickly. Any liquid has smoke-ansorbing 
qualities. A drop of cologne 111 water Tull help too.
No. 41 Do you *ee something ecologically unsound? Write to 
the company, calling attention to the pollution they are causing... 
this can help.
No. 42 Filler-tip cigarettes can be harmful to cesspools and 
even the largest city sewage processing plants. Pul them in ash­
trays, not drains and toilets.
No. 43 Some dyestuffs do not break down biologically and 
should be regarded with a wary eye. White tissues and paper do 
not contain dye.
No. 44 Be an ecologically aware shopper. Don’t buy goods 
whose by-products or residues result 111 unnecessary trash.
No. 45 Support adequate local anti-litter and pollution laws 
and their proper enforcement.
No. 46 Public officials can help encourage interstate cooper- 
atioirto control water, air and land pollution on a regional basis.
No. 47 Accumulated wire coat hangers can be tied in bundles 
and returned to your cleaner for reuse. If you throw them out they 
add immensely to the garbage problem.
No. 48 Clean, clear and disinfect sinks and drains with 
ordinary table salt. Salt is not toxic, and it has antiseptic and disin­
fectant properties, as well as abrasive, cleansing ones.
No. 49 Help decrease the mountains of garbage we generaie 
. each day by using cloth napkins.
No. 50 Protest overpackagmg of fresh foods to store managers.
No. 51 Make sure your car has the required smog device and 
have it checked regularly.
No. 52 If you put your garbage on the street for collection, 
make sure the container is spill-proof. If you live in buildings with 
incinerators, follow instructions so you don’t litter incinerator 
rooms.
No. 53 Organic materials like cooking fat; clog plumbing 
and septic tanks, causing sewage overflow. Put them m your 
garbage pail... not your sink.
No. 54 Return nutrients to the soil. Start a compost pile with 
leaves and grass dipping«. Never burn leaves and trash.
No. 55 Smokey Bear is so right! Be careful with matches... 
fires cause air. water and sight pollution.
No 561 se a hand mower if your lawn is small. Keep gasoline 
operated tools in top condition so noise and exhaust fume-, are 
minimized.
No. 57 A littered picnic area is -polled for everyone. Dispos­
al vour trash properlv and pick up discards left by other-.
No. 58 Y our house should be well insulated and tree-shaded 
to minimize fuel consumption 111 winter and air conditioning loads 
in summer. This help- to keep power loads down and helps stop 
pollution.
No. 59 Don’t use washers and dryers during peak electrical 
toad hours (5-7 pmi. The strain at your local generating station 
may add to air pollution.
No. 60 I se low wattage bulbs in lamps not used for reading 
and turn out lights not being used to conserve power.
No. 61 Carry a litter bag in your car and boat. Bring it home 
and dispose of it properlv. after vour trip.
No. 62 Encourage local newspapers and civic club publica­
tions to publish facts on progress being made to help slop 
pollution. Help keep everyone informed.
No. 63 Don’t sound your horn unless safety dictates. Keep 
your muffler and tailpipe repaired. This will help reduce noise 
pollution.
No. 64 S L-t up a ’cleaner environment corner" in your school 
or city library. Include hooks, magazines, reprints and pictures on 
ecology, ys well as Woodsy Owl materials.
No. 65 Help create community interest in schools, Focus on 
Inter problems and efforts to combat il. Student governments can 
set up good hou-ekeepmg rule- for school use and enforce them 
Establish a school environment improvement club or committee 
including faculty and students.
No. 66 Proper engine maintenance to reduce smog and Jitter 
prevention instruction can be integrated into driver training. Sug­
gest this to vour school.
No. 67 Encourage teachers to write or contact local offices of 
iigtmcies with active anti-pollution programs for information.
No. 68 Promote a teenage "Cleaner Environment" campaign 
to help clean up all kinds of pollution.
No. 69 As k national organizations and corporations for in­
formation and assistance. Many have experience in environmental 
improvement programs and are willingJx) help.
No. 70 Examine your place of work; if you find pollution 
problems caused by your production, take steps to reduce or elimi­
nate them. Make sure there are adequate trash receptacles 011 the 
premises.
No. 71 Encourage installation of scrubber systems 011 stacks 
to eliminate noxious emissions inwTthe air.
No. 72 Encourage installation of modern, adequate waste 
disposal equipment 011 local industry operations.
No. 73 Be sure contaminated water and sewage is not dis­
charged into local rivers, lakes and streams. Seek the installation 
of adequate water treatment plants.
No. 74 Talk to religious groups. Stress the spiritual value of 
nature and man s dependence 011 it for his very existence.
No. 75 Encourage the production of ecology films for school 
distribution.
No. 76 Encourage companies to locate new facilities so that 
employees can use mass transit systems or help their employees 
form car pools.
No. 77 Help restore natural beauty to areas where raw 
materials have been stripped.
No. 78 Seek adoption of safeguards to prevent oil spillage 
from tankers and offshore drilling. Help in the clean-up effort 
wherever spillage occurs.
No. 79 Discourage the erection of signs that contribute to 
sight pollution.
No. 80 Seek elimination or control of horn blasts, factory 
whistles or other loud sounds that add to noise pollution.
No. 81 Contact airline companies and encourage the installa­
tion of smog-free engines for their planes.
No. 82 Encourage development of packages that are reusable, 
recyclable or otherwise easily disposable.
No. 83 Encourage beautification of office and plant facilities 
where you work.
No. 84 Seekcooperationofpublicofficialstomakesurepublic 
facilities don’t pollute in violation of codes already in effect.
No. 85 Encourage public officials to develop fair standards 
for all so that companies without pollution device controls do not 
gain unfair competitive advantage over companies that have these 
devices.
No. 86 Ask public officials to support basic research programs 
required to control pollution and promote recycling.
No. 87 Suggest incentives for companies to install pollution 
abatement devices.
No. 88 Attend local government meetings icity councils, 
boards of supervisors, etc. 1 and ask about their plans to control 
pollution; offer your assistance.
No. 89 Support measures to improve our environment and 
reduce pollution...even if it costs money ...and it will!!
No. 90 Work with official city beautification committees. If 
none exist, help create a citizens' committee thru support of 
Chamber of Commerce, women's and service groups, PTA and 
youth organizations.
No. 91 Organize a community conference and discuss positive 
approaches to pollution control. Invite public officials, representa­
tives of labor and industry as well as other interested groups and 
individuals. Get all the facts and initiate action programs.
No. 92 Survey community opinion 10 determine how much 
support there is for cleaner environment programs It there isn’t 
enough. . educate the people for their support.
No. 93 lie sure your community lakes advantage of grants 
provided by TIL'D) ¿'.S. Dept, of Housing and I’rhau Develop­
ment for urban area beautification programs
No. 94 To decrease sight pollution, urfa u ¦ official- to 
provide and maintain better, benches, bus shelters, lamp posts, 
street signs and trash containers.
No. 95 I rge public officials to adopt a sensible ordinance to 
govern installation of commercial and industrial signs (including 
billboards).
No. 96 Encourage local home builders to develop a program 
of leaving as many trees as possible when thev develop a subdivision.
No. 97 Encourage aesthetic plantings around freeways and 
public buildings to include plants and trees that have a higher 
resistance to air pollution.
No. 98 Enlist the help of local news media to help in pollu­
tion control efforts State purpose clearly 10 elicit strong editorial 
support. Present all facts and avoid one-sided statements.
No. 99 Teach your children a reverence for life; inspire them 
with a knowledge of Nature. This will motivate them to work for 
and demand a cleaner environment throughout their lives.
No. 100 There is no season for pollution, it occurs every day. 
all year. IX) something each day to fight pollution. Encourage 
others to do the same!
No. 101 If you own a trail bike, learn where the proper trails 
are located and, use them! Tires that go off the trail cause 
erosion. Ero-ion’pollutes, killing fish and plants.
No. 102 Encourage your local trash collection company to 
collect cans, bottle- and papers in separate containers for recycling. 
Till- will also help reduce tile solid waste problem.
No. 103 Encourage your telephone and power companies to 
place their utility lines underground.
No. 104 Work with department stores and telephone com­
panies to help collect old directories and catalogs for recycling.
Give a hoot! Don't pollute.
