rT' A TVT* ? IV TVolume 80, Number 21 I I Carnegie Mellon University
March 11, 1980 |H I Pittsburgh, PA 15213
l/\l\lr\li
Student Senate elections
Stuart 
forum last week.
Tomorrow and Thursday are Student 
Government elections. The polls will be 
open in Skibo for all off-campus and 
Fraternity residents, Donner Hall for res­
idents of the Hill dorms, Morewood for 
residents of Morewood and Mudge. Grad­
uate Students only may vote on the fifth 
floor of Science Hall. The polls will be 
open on Wednesday from 9:00 AM - mid­
night and on Thursday from 9:00 AM - 
9:00 PM.
Students will be asked to choose a Pres­
ident of Student Government, three sena­
tors from MIS, six from CIT, two from 
H&SS, and four from CFA. Also on the
ballot will be a referendum concerning 
the management of atheletic concessions 
for next year.
Last Tuesday the TARTAN sponsored 
a forum for the candidates running for 
President of Student Government. A panel 
which consisted of the editor-in-chief of the 
TARTAN, the general manager of WRCT, 
Chairman of Student Senate, President of 
UFO and the President of SDC asked each 
candidate a question followed by several 
questions from the audience. The forum 
was video-taped and was to be played back 
in Skibo today for everyone who was not at 
the forum last week.
Senate sends 'request'Mayer withholds report
Last Tuesday, Student Senate passed a 
resolution asking the TARTAN not to en­
dorse a candidate in the upcoming Student 
Government elections. The discussion was 
brought to the Senate floor by Walt 
Young of GSIA , and the motion was made 
by Pat Crump, student government 
treasurer.
The main points of discussion centered 
around the student’s ability to distinguish 
editorial opinion from objective reporting. 
The majority of the Senate agreed that 
most students use the TARTAN as an 
undisputed source and would view an 
endorsement of a candidate as the only 
logical decision.ConcessionReferendum
by Dan Horgan
Along with this week’s Student Govern­
ment elections, students will vote on who 
they feel should manage the athletic con­
cessions for next year. The concession 
referendum is being added by Student 
Senate because they feel strong student 
interest and opinion about this issue should 
be officially forwarded to Warner Hall. 
Depending upon the results, concession 
management could possibly be returned 
to A Phi O, or remain the responsibility 
of Athletic Director and Food Service 
Concession Director, James Banner. Both 
have wrestled over concession management 
all year.
The controversy of concessions began 
with Warner Hall’s decision last summer to 
discontinue A Phi O’s handling of con­
cessions. During the summer, an uncon­
firmed authority ordered maintenance to 
clear out the concession area under the 
stadium where A Phi O stored its cooking 
utensils and Coke dispenser. Three weeks 
before the semester began, Dean Cox 
informed Cynthia Lubon, A Phi O Presi­
dent that A Phi O no longer had control 
of concessions. She reluctantly agreed. 
When she entered the concession area to 
“pack”, Lubon was amazed to find that 
not only had her equipment been removed 
from locked cabinets and stored in a back 
room, the walls were painted. Their Coke 
dispenser was returned to Coca-Cola Co.
A Phi O is less concerned with the loss 
of concessions than they are with the 
method of reassigning concession respon­
sibility. Lubon feels concessions was taken
continued on page 12
Senate also discussed the fact that the 
TARTAN is the only news source on cam­
pus, therefore an alternative point of view 
would not be presented. They did mention 
the fact that organizations such as UFO, 
SDC, GSO, and Spirit would possibly 
be endorsing a candidate, however they 
feel that the TARTAN has a more univer­
sal audience.
There was also discussion on the fact that 
Senate provides partial funding for the 
TARTAN and because Senate also has the 
right of free speech, they also have the 
right to make such a request.
Sue Borg, Editor-in-Chief of the TARTAN 
pointed out to the Senate that they “were 
on shaky ground because they were dealing 
with the constitutional question of censor­
ship.” Senate chairperson Mike Inners 
responded that Senate was not affected by 
the U.S. Constitution.
by Jim Balsom
Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Ser­
vices, has refused to release a copy of an 
evaluation of University Food Service 
which was conducted in early February. 
Mayer stated that the report, which was 
prepared by Kathryn Smith of Reynolds 
Metals Corporation in Virginia, “went be­
yond what we hoped it would accomplish 
and indeed raised questions of privacy.”
Smith was sent to CMU at the request 
of CMU graduate John Alexander (’57) of 
Reynolds after hearing of the recent man­
agement and quality problems encountered 
by UFS. She was on campus for less than
24 hours, and sent her report to Mayer late 
in February.
According to Mayer, the report covered 
such areas as the operation and perfor­
mance of UFS including things like menu, 
production, merchandizing and sanitation. 
He and John Eichmuller, Director of Food 
Service, both said they would summarize
Smith’s report, but as of press-time that 
had not been done. Eichmuller said he 
would not release a copy of the report be­
cause it was addressed to Oscar Mayer, and 
he did not have the right to release for pub­
lication someone else’s mail.
Mayer, in addition to citing questions of 
privacy, said he felt the letter was a person­
al correspondence and did not warrant 
publication. He further stated that if Smith 
decided to release a copy, that was her 
privilege as author of the letter, but he 
would not do so.
The TARTAN contacted Smith who 
also refused to release a copy of her report. 
She acknowledged that the report covered 
the areas that Mayer mentioned, but had 
no comment when asked about the “ques­
tions of privacy”. She stated that “some­
times you have to be satisfied with a sum­
mary,” and when questioned about how 
long it would .take UFS to implement her 
recommendations, she refused to comment.Physical Plant sparks controversy
by Doug Kirsop
Physical Plant implemented a new rate 
schedule on February 15 which has been 
deemed by some university administra­
tors and Physical plant personnel as a 
“tremendous increase.”
The schedule includes hourly wage 
rates, and hourly charegeout rates for 
each of the different job classifications. 
In compliance with the contract between 
CMU and AFL-CIO local 29, hourly pay 
rates range from S5.06 to S7.50. The 
highest hourly rate the contract calls for 
a Food Service employee to receive is 
$5.38. Charge-out rates are approximately 
double the pay rate for each classifica­
tion.
Cushing Phillips, Director of Physical 
Plant, explained that the difference be­
tween the pay and charge-out rates was 
due to: employee fringe benefits, sick 
leave time, holiday and vacation pay. and 
employee personal time, also as specified 
in the contract. The rest of the differ­
ence goes for supervision and Physical 
Plants own supplies.
Eight of the tradesmen, however, 
are being paid S9.35 per hour-SI.85 
more than what any other tradesman is 
paid. There are two of these superstars- 
lead tradesmen, in each of four different 
trades. Phillips said that Physical Plant 
was having “difficulty in holding compe­
tent people and recruiting skilled persons 
from outside the university.” The super- 
star classification was then created to add
incentive. According to Phillips, the pro­
gram has shown some success, however 
it has also created new problems. Several 
of the people working in trades that have 
the upper level classification expressed 
their unhappiness to the TARTAN. They 
also explained that if they are called to 
work during another shift, or especially 
on weekends, they will refuse. Since the 
superstar gets paid more than they do, 
they feel no obligation to put in extra 
time or effort. This results in higher 
costs for jobs that are already charged 
as overtime.
The same rates apply to work done for 
university departments as for repairs due 
to student breakage/destruction. A stud- 
dent in Morewood was charged S74 for 
the replacement of a hallway window 
that he put his hand through while at­
tempting to catch a frisbee. Labor was 
S52, the cost of the new piece of plexi­
glass was S25. The student paid because 
the S74 charge was less than the SI47 
he was originally told he would have 
to pay.
An administrative department request­
ed that an oil painting already in the 
room where it was to be hung, be hung 
by Physical Plant. Hanging it involved 
putting one nail through each of two 
holders, putting two eyescrews into the 
painting’s frame, and tying on the hang­
ing wire. Time to the job plus actual 
working time was about one half hour. 
The charge was S43.80.
Both of these costs were incured be­
fore the new rate schedule went into 
effect.
Physical Plant currently employs 
about one supervisor for every 20 men, 
and Phillips explained that there is 
“always a supervision problem in a main­
tenance organization.” Two Physical 
Plant employees were followed as they 
drove around campus for 42 minutes, 
passing the front of Doherty Hall six 
times. They returned to their work­
shop when they observed that they were 
being followed.
.These students were preparing to audition for 
Kings Productions in Skibo last Thursday.

---------------------------------------------------

Does the TARTAN teeter? 
Editor:
A word to the wise:
I look forward to hearing from 
the new editorial staff, but I also 
want to issue a word of caution 
about a certain journalistic 
phenomenon of democratic coun­
tries: yellow press. These publica­
tions are the hapless victims of 
our own vicious system of mass 
media and freedom of the press, 
who tout the sensational; the 
latest , controversy, and are 
reduced to mere mouthpieces of 
a certain faction or issue. We have 
enough publications which spas­
modically appear and vanish to 
satisfy the publics lust for being 
fed with “facts” with which to
form opinions. Headlines are a 
particularly dangerous device, and 
the Tartan has not been totally 
immune to abuse of this feature 
recently. I have no doubts the 
Tartan staff is well aware of the 
potentially lethal two-edged 
sword it wields. While I seriously 
doubt it will unknowingly commit 
something as extreme as a social 
injustice, as occurred in the 
movie, The Dishonor of Katarina 
Blumt I am worried when I see 
things slipping through lazy or 
sloppy journalistic work. Obvious­
ly the staff stands behind its work 
and takes it as seriously as one can 
take a student publication, it 
may suffer through hurried pre­
paration to meet a deadline, or a
million other things which plague 
a students life.
I must observe, as others may 
have also, that the Tartan has 
suffered a slight decline in overall 
quality, I presume attributable to 
many things. The excuses are 
never very important. The 
product is important.
Remember: a newspaper is
never formed solely of public 
opinion. Good luck!
Thomas Niedbala 
Arch. *80
Peace and Quiet
Editor:
I would like to commend the 
TARTAN and Audrey Mojinie for 
the publication of Ms. Mojinie’s
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 21 
March 11, 1980
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Contributing Editors:
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
Associate Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Jim Balsom 
Renee Rosenfeld 
Richard Gorelick 
Michael Brzustowicz,
Jean Pellegrini
Smita Pai 
Karen Stevens 
Doug Kirsop 
Ed Zayas
Sports Editor: 
Dossier Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Wesley Seeley 
Lynn Epstein 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Hart
News: Jeanne Abmayer, Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed Frankenberry, 
Chris Gebhardt, Dan Horgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, Elliot 
Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry,
Dave Kjrby, Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Rabineau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Smits, Daren Stevens.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Pat Krump, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser. 
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak, Assistant Manager; Michael Brzustowicz, Beth Kurtz.
Photography: Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd.
Art: Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis, Dave Robinson.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an­
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-21II. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
TARTAN
We take the First
Everyone opposes censorship of collegiate publications. The follow­
ing organizations, among others, have put their opposition on record: 
the American Civil Liberties Union, the U.S. National Student Associ­
ation, the American Association of University Professors, the Associ­
ation of American Colleges, the National Association of Student Per- 
sonnal Administrators, and the National Association of Women Deans 
and Counselors. An entire book could be filled with the pronounce­
ments of these and other groups on the need for a free campus press.
But while everyone opposes collegiate censorship, nearly everyone 
practices it as well. In 1966 the University of Minnesota published a 
survey of 800 American colleges and universities. Fewer than five per­
cent of the schools reported that their student newspapers were entire­
ly free of administration control. At CMU, the TARTAN is free of ad­
ministration control. It is the Student Government, however, that we 
must worry about.
Last week's Senate resolution asking the TARTAN not to en­
dorse a candidate for the Student Government Presidency was, at the 
very least, an implication that the Senate has the right to determine 
the Editorial Policy of the TARTAN. The Senate claims because they 
subsidize the newspaper, they have the right to make requests about 
editorial stands. -
What Senate seems to forget is the fact that they do not subsidize 
the TARTAN- the students of CMU do with their activities fee. The 
Senate only has the responsibility of allocating student funds.
It seems, however, that Senate feels not only the responsibility to 
allocate money but also the power to advise the organizations that stu­
dent money helps to support. In addition, Senate has determined that 
they know, more than anyone else, what the students of CMU should 
read about in the TARTAN.
They claim that CMU students take everything they read in the 
TARTAN as undisputed fact. Although we try to make most of the 
paper reflect the truth, what appears in the Editorial column is the 
opinion of the Editorial Board. We don't pretend that our opinion is 
the absolute truth and we do not feel that you take it as such. We give 
you more credit than that.
The purpose of the editorial column is to stimulate public debate 
on important issues. Your response to this debate is on the op-ed page 
in the form of letters, Views and Opinions. We consider Student Gov­
ernment elections to be among the important issues on campus. As a 
newspaper, the TARTAN had every intention of endorsing a candi­
date for Student Government President. As a unit, the Editorial Board 
could not come to a concensus on which candidate to endorse. TAR­
TAN policy dictates that an editorial opinion must be representative 
of a majority of the Editorial Board, and therefore an endorsement of 
any candidate in this instance would not have been justified.
The Senate has apparently mistaken our decision as honoring their 
request ( a senator called News Editor Jim Balsom to thank him for 
the decision). There is no need for thanks. The TARTAN made this 
editorial decision as we make all decisions. It was in no way a result of 
Senate's resolution, and we have no intention of ever basing our edit­
orial policy on “requests” from Student Senate. The easiest thing to 
have done, in this case, would have been to endorse a candidate be­
cause Senate told us not to. That would have been as irresponsible as 
the Senate resolution.
The details of this particular action by Senate are really not import­
ant. The TARTAN feels that Senate endorsed an uneducated and un- 
constitutinal resolution that was based on a mistaken view of the 
campus community. Now is the time to convince Senate that it’s time 
they stopped believing in such foolish ideas as censorship and gullible 
students.
They take the Fifth
Nobody is talking much in Auxilliary Services. In fact, this tight- 
lipped attitude has spread to at least one person from Reynolds Metals 
Corporation in Virginia. It's curious that nobody is willing to release 
the latest report on various conditions in University Food Service-not 
even the author of the report who has no connection with Food Ser­
vice, at least not on any formal basis, (see article, page 1)
What questions of privacy could Oscar Mayer be refering to? 
Supposedly,the re is nothing in this university that is private- ex­
cept, of course, personnel and salary records. But then Ms. Smith 
from Reynolds should not have had access to these either. Shouldn’t 
information about anything that is virtually 100% funded by the 
students (Food Service, for example) be public information?
Why not share this information? Maybe UFS is up to standards in 
sanitation, production, merchandising and menus. But what are we to 
think? Wouldn’t they show us a good report? Certainly-who doesn’t 
like to gloat?
It seems like there are lots of questions- Questions that will prob­
ably not be answered in Oscar Mayer’s summary. Ms. Smith thinks 
that “ there are times when you have to be satisfied with a summary." 
Well, we are not satisfied, and will not be satisfied until we see the re­
port in its entirety.

---------------------------------------------------

views
The Frisbee and its place in higher education
The following View was written 
for Public Research, Syndicated, 
by Dr. GJi. Tennyson, a Professor 
of English at the University of 
California.
The follies of American Higher 
education have been chronicled so 
often and so well by so many that 
any attempt to add to the litany 
must seem supererogatory. Who 
has not heard of college credit 
courses in subjects like babysitting 
or chalkboard writing? Thus a re­
cent newspaper story to the effect 
that at California’s Somona State 
University college credit could be 
gained in Frisbee-tossing made no 
great splash. Nor do I offer it here 
as the supreme instance of time- 
wasting and misdirection in Amer­
ican education, though it certainly 
is an instance. But what makes it 
a special case is that it may have 
the distinction of being the only 
such boondoggle course ever to 
have been vigoroursly defended in 
print by a university president.
For the most part, when an in­
quiring eye—say that of the ever- 
watchful, ever witty Russell Kirk 
in countless books and articles 
and most recently in Decadence 
and Renewal in the Higher Learn­
ing—prises out of a catalogue and 
holds f forth for our inspection 
some particularly egregious exam­
ple of academic confusion the ac­
tual perpetrators of the enormity 
remain silent and hope the annoy­
ance will go away. If they speak 
out, it is probably to denounce 
their exposers as enemies of edu­
cation, elitists, fault-finders, nit- 
pickers, etc. But generally the 
specific instance that was singled 
out is not defended as such. It is 
usually argued that it was taken 
out of context, that after all Team 
Babysitting 113 is but one of 
many practical courses in the pro­
gram leading to a degree in House­
hold Management and that many 
more academically demanding 
courses (usually unspecified) give 
intellectual substance to the 
whole undertaking.
But no more. We now have in 
print a defense of nothing less 
than Frisbee-tossing by nothing 
less than the president of the very 
institution in which such a course 
is offered. This incredible piece 
of work appeared in the Sunday 
Los Angeles Times under the title 
“Future Shock Arrives in Aca­
demia—on a Frisbee.” The author 
is one Peter Diamandopoulos, 
who is identified at the end of the 
article as president of Sonoma 
State University. President yet. 
Mind boggling.
According to the Diamandop­
oulos account, the first uncovering 
of the Frisbee flap at Sonoma State 
came from a San Francisco news­
paper columnist but gained real 
attention when it was picked up 
by Walter Cronkite and broadcast 
on the evening news. Diamandop­
oulos argues that at least twenty 
“major universities and colleges” 
in the nation also offer courses in 
Frisbee, but because his institution 
was singled out, he will undertake 
to defend the offering. And so he 
does.
The Diamandopoulos defense 
is a positive Sacher Torte of aca­
demic flapdoodle. He accuses de­
tractors of Frisbee of being in the 
camp either of those who think 
college education is solely for the 
professions or of those who think 
it is “something broader and sub­
tler, but founded on well-esta­
blished strategies to which academ­
ia should adhere.” I think this last 
phrasing is educationese for tradi­
tional learning, but no matter. 
Both parties are wrong, Diamand­
opoulos argues: “Higher education 
goes beyond textbooks; there are 
neither maps nor directional signs 
on the frontiers of knowledge.” 
(But it seems, there are Frisbees 
on those frontiers.) Nor does so­
ciety itself inform education of 
“its values and priorities.” Ergo,
the “place of Frisbee in higher 
education must be viewed in the 
context of higher education as a 
whole.” The old context argument, 
as Agent 99 would say. Not to 
mention the fact that the author 
has just said that nobody can know 
what higher education is.
Diamandopoulos then goes into 
several paragraphs presumably de­
signed to set forth the context of 
higher education as a whole. Not 
a great deal emerges from this ex­
cept high-sounding utterances 
about imparting knowledge, insur­
ing equal access, and fostering 
excellence. But he is prepared 
to show how Frisbee contributes 
to these aims. This in turn requires 
several paragraphs of what his stu­
dents would doubtless label b.s., 
but it finally emerges that Frisbee 
is a proper part of the curriculum 
because it is a game, a sport. It is 
both “esthetically and physically 
challenging.” Nay, more: “Spon­
taneity, versatility, deftness, obser­
vational powers, self-control, pa­
tience, persistence, self-reliance, 
and the laws of dynamics all seem 
to be essencial to mastering the 
Frisbee.” One might add that 
they are essential as well for 
hide-and-seek, or Monopoly, or 
successful bank robbery. Except
possibly for that bit about the 
laws of dynamics. So, perhaps 
Frisbee students at Sonoma State 
pass finals on the laws of dynamics 
(sample question: does a Frisbee 
sail better against or with the 
wind?)
arguing that the real issue is the 
general hostility of the world to­
ward “new talent, ideas, and initi­
atives.” Shades of Galileo! But 
Sonoma State will not have its 
Frisbee hand stayed, for “by edu­
cating students to keep their spirit, 
their will, their intelligence and 
their pride skillfully alive, while 
always serious” this beacon of 
learning “is preparing a generation 
of creative beings who will need 
no defenders for their diversions.”
So help me God, the foregoing 
was actually written by a college 
president and permitted to circu­
late in the pages of the largest 
newspaper in the west.
At least con-artists can take 
heart. Now, in addition to the ones 
born every minute, there are the 
hordes that are trained to be that 
way by higher education. The 
possibilities are limitless: Ad­
vanced Hula Hoop, Introductory 
Arm Wrestling, Creative Chug-a- 
lug-----
very fine essay entitled, “When 
the Quiet Comes.” At a time 
when I have been all too con­
cerned with the amount of work I 
have to do and the summer job 
I have to find, her beautifully 
written words provided me with 
the opportunity to reflect upon 
that which really matters and to 
appreciate the human element of 
existence. To the extent that 
Ms. Mojinie provided nourish­
ment for my weary spirit this 
late Winter, I am very grateful.
Anne LeOra Winschel 
G.S.IA. *1
Look to RussiaEditor:
I applaud Ms. Kunkle and her 
views concerning ‘another reality’. 
I found the data concerning the 
Russian draft system very inter­
esting. I implore all people that 
are against the draft, war, bombs, 
etc. to look across the sea to 
Mother Russia and follow her 
patriotic examples.
I also ask Ms. Kunkle to be 
gentle with the above crowd of 
people. All they really fear are 
the warlords with their MAD 
(Mutual Assured Destruction) 
plans. All I fear are the numerous 
nothinks and their SAD (Stupid­
ity Assures Destruction) policy.
Bart Biamonte 
S.H.8218
P.S. to Sharp Shooter:
Like most people who are 
clever with vulgar analogies, you 
end up shooting blanks.
A Candidate question 
Editor:
Wednesday evening at an SDC 
meeting, presidential candidate 
Nina Houska made the remark 
that no one listens to WRCT. I 
ask you: do we want to elect 
someone as president with such a
prejudiced view of a student 
organization?
People often say that WRCT 
doesn’t play what the students 
want to hear. Admittedly this is 
true for some of the student 
body. Yet what a lot of people 
would like to hear , is a rock & 
roll station like WDVE without 
commercials. The last thing this 
area needs is another rock station, 
in addition t© the dozen or so 
that already exist. What WRCT 
does is fill in the large gap that 
exists in local radio. Because 
WRCT is a free-form station, 
WRCT plays the jazz, folk, new- 
wave and progressive rock that is 
unavailable elsewhere on Pitts­
burgh radio. Futhermore, because 
WRCT is an all volunteer station, 
if a student doesn’t like what 
he/she is hearing, they are enthu­
siastically invited to come down 
to WRCT in Skibo and participate 
in our programming.
On the subject of participation, 
WRCT has over 100 people par­
ticipating at the station, signi­
ficantly more people than any 
other student organization except­
ing Activities Board. Therefore, 
aside from providing alternative 
programming, WRCT provides one 
of the greatest outlets for student 
activity on campus. If a potential 
president is going to take such a 
negative attitude toward one of 
the most popular student organ­
izations, just what kind of treat­
ment can other organizations ex­
pect?
In light of such an attitude, 
any interested student should 
have great reservations about 
voting for Miss Houska.
Respectfully, 
Bill Goold 
Music Director - WRCT
Just Super
Editor:
The Astronomy Club would 
like to express its sincere apprecia­
tion to everyone involved in 
making our fund raising film a 
success. The showing of “Super­
man, The Movie” made a signi­
ficant profit for the club which 
will be added to the observatory 
project fund. With this success 
the Scaife Hall Observatory moves 
closer to completion.
So our thanks goes to Dean 
Swank, Dean Cox, AB, Student 
Senate, Physical Plant, The TAR­
TAN, Campus Printing, Professor 
Truman Kohman (our advisor), 
those who painted the fence, col­
lected tickets, cleaned up, and 
especially to our patrons who 
made it all worth while.
Sincerely, 
The Astronomy Club
An expensive 9 inches 
Editor:
It’s amazing how high the rate 
of inflation has become. Did any­
body notice the nine inch pizzas 
served at Skibo Monday night 
(3/3/80)? What sold for $1.05 
last spring is now $2.95!
A Skibo Student Manager 
Who wishes to remain 
anonymous for fear of 
losing his job.
Oops!
In the interview with Student Government Presi­
dential Candidate, Stuart Schlisserman, on page one 
of the Special Election Issue, we goofed. What should 
have been a “w” was changed to a “t ”, completely 
changing the meaning of the sentence.
Stuart Schlisserman is now presiding over the 
H&SS College SAC. Sorry, Stu.
The TARTAN will print all letters that are legibly 
written and within the bounds of good taste. Letters- 
to-the-Editor may be addressed to: The TARTAN, 
Box 17, Pittsburgh, Pa, 15213 or Campus Mail. The 
TARTAN asks that all letters include signature, 
address, and phone number for confirmation. Names 
will be witheld upon request. All letters for publica­
tion must be received by the Friday prior to the 
following issue.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—TARTAN—March 11,1980
UMOC has been extended 
You can still enter
e Ugliest Man on Campus Contest
Just make up yourself or 
a friend and send the picture to 
A Phi O Box 100 
Pictures received by April 1 will appear in the April 8 
edition of the Tartan (Please send two copies)
Deadline April 7 
Prizes are Ugly Face Mugs
Mugs will be on display at Skibo Information
between March 10-20
Voting done with money.
Proceeds go to charity. -t
ii~iiif|f—i ~>/|f W Vt V|)----------— Vlr-----------~i V|f—i —initi VI) Vti ‘/I * •
Faculty development program tied to course evaulations
by Jeanne Abmayer
Several years ago, the University at­
tempted to set up a type of faculty devel­
opment program, which had been fully 
funded. Developmental officers were inter­
viewed, and a selection process was under­
way when the funding was returned and 
the project terminated. “One of the prob­
lems encountered was the type of school 
that we are,” said Dr. Schatz, Vice-Presi­
dent of Academic Affairs. “When this idea 
was being considered, there was not a 
strong feeling that professors and TA’s 
would actually seek this kind of help.” 
Also, complications arose over what a 
“developmental” program would include. 
Everyone seemed to agree on the need for 
such a facility, but they couldn’t decide on 
the specific areas to include.
The “specifics” in a situation like this areCMU starts rail center
CMU has established a Rail Systems 
Center (RSC) to promote high quality re­
search, development and education in the 
fields of rail technology operations, man­
agement and planning. Emphasis will be 
placed on freight and passenger railroads.
Director Richard Uher says the Center 
will be the focus of all rail-related educa­
tional activity at CMU and comes at a time 
of increased interest by government and 
industry in the rebirth and revitalization of 
the nation’s rail network. “We witnessed 
the decline of the nation’s rail system 
during the 1950’s and 60’s,” he explains, 
“but because of energy shortages which 
arose in the 1970’s, a new interest has been
generated in improving rail systems. This 
includes not only freight, but intercity and 
urban rail passenger service as well.”
The center is presently evaluating 
wide rail technologies for possible future in 
the United States. “One area of primary 
importance to the railroads is energy con­
servation,” Uher says. “Ever since the 1973 
Arab oil embargo, auto makers have been 
reducing auto size, making them lighter 
and more fuel efficient. We hope to do the 
same with rail systems. With the concern 
the railroads have about the future avail­
ability and cost of diesel fuel, we feel the 
electrification of rail systems will go a long 
way toward achieving that goal.”
SDC, AB sponsor concert
The Students’ Dorm Council voted last 
Wednesday to help finance the Spring Car­
nival concert with the Activities Board. 
Council committed an amount not to ex­
ceed $4,500 for the cooperative venture 
with the following provisions: (1) SDC 
would receive equal publicity with A.B. 
as a sponsor of the event, (2) dorm resi­
dents would receive a SO 50 reduction on 
the ticket price, and (3) any proceeds in 
excess of those needed to fund the con­
cert are to be credited to SDC.
In other business, Melanie Fetrow,
Chairperson of the Programming committee 
announced that there will be a St. Patrick’s 
Day party on March 14 in the Mudge 
Lobby, and the officers announced their 
office hours in the SDC office, room 55 
Skibo, x2114. Stacey Matz, Secretary, 
Thursdays from 4:30-5:30; Bret Fennell, 
Treasurer, Mondays from 10:45-11:45; 
Alexis Arlett, VP of the Hill, Mondays 
from 1:30-3:30; Nora Lederle, VP of 
Morewood, Tuesdays from 3:00-5:00; Jeff 
Pitchford, President, Thursdays from 
12:30-3:00.
definitely a major problem. Who would 
provide the services, whether they would 
be mandatory, voluntary, or ignored, are 
only a few of the questions which need 
to be answered before a program could 
take place. Bette Hutzler, director of 
Pittsburgh area centers for teachers, told the 
TARTAN, “I would really like to see 
support for a service to be provided upon 
request, including programs, seminars, or 
private help for anyone who seeks it.” 
Although the center has some sophisticated 
equipment which could be used in this
CARD benefit sparks fight
by Doug Kirsop
A benefit new wave concert last Friday 
night ended in a pro/anti-registration fight.
The band agreed to play for free, and 
the two dollar donation went to support 
the Committee Against Registration and 
the Draft (CARD). According to CARD 
members, several males, wearing ATO 
jackets, came over about 10 PM. They pro­
ceeded to put up pro-registration posters, 
though there were no problems at that 
point, possibly because Campus Police 
was called..
About ten minutes before the concert 
ended, a group, estimated to be about 25 
in number by ten CARD members, came 
into the dance. The group consisted of 
men from various fraternities as well as 
independant individuals. Several fights 
broke out, and Campus Police were called 
back.
The band’s bass player was punched in 
the face while attempting to break up one 
of the fights. He suffered a mild concus­
sion, a split lip, and lost a tooth, but was 
not held at the hospital.
area, there is no one with the time to coor­
dinate it.
Dr. Tony Penna, director of the Carnegie- 
Mellon Education Center, feels that “a 
faculty development program is a good 
idea, if someone is interested in doing it.” 
Controversy arises concerning the inter­
relation of this type of service with stu­
dent evaluation of teaching. Data is col­
lected through the evaluation, and is in no 
way analyzed or standardized. More pro­
fessional means of evaluation could be 
necessary. Says Dr. Penna, “The current 
evaluation system has more to do with 
students liking a course than learning in a 
course.” which he feels is not what we 
need.
In any event, there seems to be a feeling 
that some type of faculty development 
course may be worth looking into again. 
According to Dr. Schatz, funding would 
probably be available, and the problems 
which occurred the last time may have 
found a few solutions by now. The only 
major question which exists is whether 
this type of service would be accepted 
(and used) by the academic community.
Thistle board
Saul Carliner, Editor-in-Chief of the 
1980 THISTLE, announced the members 
of the 1981 THISTLE Editorial Board: 
Editor-in-Chief, Chris Barrett; Associate 
Editor, Dotti Gizzi; Business Manager, 
Mark Caine; Layout Editor, Patty 
Hourlland; Photography Editor, Larry 
Neff; and Copy Editor, Carol Pankonien.
The new editors are already busy 
making preparations for THISTLE ’81. 
Suggestions concerning anything that 
should be included in the 1981 yearbook 
are welcome. Just drop the THISTLE a 
line through campus mail or call their 
office at ext. 2121.

---------------------------------------------------

March 11,1980-TARTAN-Page 5
Student Senate to vote on budgets tonight
Tonight at the Student Senate meeting 
next year’s budget package will be pro­
posed by the Finance Committee. If it is 
approved without change, the Senate will 
authorize expenditures totalling $275,479 
of which $182,333. will come from the 
recently increased activities fee ($50.00/ 
year) which all full-time CMU students 
must pay.
The budget Figures released by Senate 
show the clubs total budget, the amount 
of subsidy they will receive from Senate
Student Organization
Activities Board
Activities Fair
Astronomy Club
Baseball Club
Chess Gub
Club Francophone
Computer Club
Explorers Club
Faculty Course Evaluation
Forbes Street Gallery
Hockey Club
Jazz Ensemble
Karate Club
Law Club
Orienteering
Peer Help
Public Admin. Organization
and the percent of increase for each of 
those amounts over this year’s budget. 
The clubs with no Figures entered for this 
year are those that neither the Rules or 
Finance Committee could contact, and will 
have no budget for next year unless they 
go to Finance and request one.
All of the budgets will be brought as a 
package before Senate tonight except for 
Hockey Gub, which will be considered 
seperately. Mary Ann Lawton, the Chair
of Finance Committee said the reason for 
this is that Hockey Gub has the fourth 
largest budget and that all of the clubs with 
similar size budgets are service organiza­
tions, which Hockey Gub is not. Further, 
the Athletic Department’s position is that 
because of the lack of a facility close by 
and the lack of local teams to play, it is 
not logistically feasable (for them to sup­
port a Hockey Team). The closest rinks 
are in Butler and Belle Vernon (except 
for the psuedo rink in the Monroeville
Mall) and scheduling would necessitate 
many trips to Buffalo, Geveland, Morgan­
town, etc. Also, a coach, who would only 
be part-time, would have to be hired. 
Because of the amount of travel that 
would be involved in the position > this 
would be very difficult to do.
Since these points are brought up 
frequently when discussing Hockey Gub’s 
budget, the committee would like a state­
ment from the full Senate on the matter.
TotalSenate% increaseTotalSenate% increase
BudgetSubsidytotal/subsidyStudent OrganizationBudgetSubsidytotal/subsidy
$109,030$85,0303145Rent-A-Tech$1584$709-30-15
1910191099Student Government Corp.16941694N/AN/A
5984987400Ski Gub3102107262
35271712-9-26Soc. Automotive Eng.————
—•___Student Government Fund10001000-100-100
——__Student Senate400040005353
6514512889Spirit11851185-46-46
45034056Tartan59133307833949
644034405272Tech Flying Club16681390-1.216.4
322528251412Tech Radio Club1167892103197
941176611055Thistle22550760059192___Ultimate Frisbee7256256178
__Volleyball Gub——__
_WRCT27025266254752
____Philosophy Gub1350N/AN/A
169016903030International Student Org.13581063-154Kiltie Band——__
C.A.R.E. at Kaufmann's
•:':v MB
To help meet the critical needs of the 
hundreds of thousands of refugees pour­
ing into Pakistan from Afghanistan, CARE, 
the International Relief Agency, has com­
mitted an initial one-half million dollars for 
immediate emergency aid.
There are 500,000 registered refugees 
in Pakistan, but some estimates run as high 
as a million.
Many of the refugees are suffering from 
respiratory diseases and frigid Siberian
winds whipping through tents housing the 
refugees is adding to the problem.
A cable from CARE personnel in 
Pakistan described the population in one 
refugee camp as“... mainly young children, 
women and older men. Many of the child­
ren are barefoot and lack warm clothing.”
Contributions for the refugees in 
Pakistan may be made to the CARE 
Afghan Refugee Fund, Kaufmann’s Depart­
ment Store, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.
TARTAN NEWS 
STAFF MEETING
Mondays at 8:30 PM Room 50, Skibo
Current staff and interested persons 
are encouraged to attend
A ^ ^ ^ -O- ^ ^ ^ A -0- ^ A ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^0«07 *3? w w w w w w w w w w w w w w *37 w w w w w w vi»
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
H&SS 
SECOND ANNUAL
SPRING FLING
SUNDAY 
1 APRIL 20 
7:00 - 10:00
GATEWAY PARTY LINER
"The perfect ending 
for Spring Carnival Weekend!"
*>
*
*
*>
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
U»
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
I TICKETS GO ON SALE SOON %? * 
$ *
* SPONSORED BY H&SS SAC J
+ t 
«* sg. ¿g. q. q. q. q. q. eg. eg. eg. eg. eg.eg.eg.eg.eg. <¥•<¥•<¥><¥> *¥><¥"¥•%
HELP WANTED AD
On-Campus Summer Jobs
ATTENTION:
SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, SENIORS, 
and GRADUATE STUDENTS
The Camegie-Mellon Action Project (C-MAP) is 
seeking a staff of teaching and resident assistants to work 
in our pre-college summer program from June 21 through 
July 30, 1980.
Applicants for positions should have expertise in any 
two of the following subject areas:
Physics l( II. Ill 
Calculus I, II
Chemistry (Freshman and Sophomore levels)
ASE (Analysis, Synthesis & Evaluation)
(Previous tutoring experience is helpful but not 
necessary.)
Applications are available in the C-MAP Office, 410 
Margaret Morrison Building, from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
or at the Skibo Information Desk.
APPLICATION DEADLINE DATE:
FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1980

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—TARTAN—March 11,1980
MR. YOUSRI EL-KOUEDI
First Secretary of the Egyptian embassy in Washington, D.C 
will speak on
THE HISTORICAL AND POLITICAL 
BACKGROUND OF MODERN EGYPT
SATURDAY, MARCH 15 
MOREWOOD GARDENS RECREATION ROOM 
8:00 PM
The presentation is free, everybody is invited to attend
For a buffet dinner at 6:30 PM, tickets are available in advance 
(Call X3042 or X3043). Come to our party at 9:30 PM!
Presented by the International Student Organization of CMU 
Funded in part by Student Activities Fee
Political Scene
Soviet treatment of dissidents raises concern
by Kim Kunkle
In recent weeks, there has been much 
concern over Soviet actions, not only in 
Afghanistan but in their own country. The 
Soviet Union has never been known for 
tolerance or kind treatment of free-thinkers 
or dissidents. But in the past few weeks 
there has been a wave of repression in 
Russia and Czechoslovakia, where 5 dissi­
dents were recently imprisoned, triggering 
protests in Western Europe and Soviet 
dissidents, which dispels any illusions that 
the Soviet government has any tendency 
towards allowing freedom in their own or 
other countries. The most publicized 
incident, of course, was the arrest and 
banishment to a special ‘closed city’ of 
Andrei Sakharov, a well-known Soviet 
scientist and supporter of human rights. 
The Washington Post regards this move as 
‘effectively throttling’ the Soviet dissident
movement; on a more personal level, the 
AP reports that Sakharov may be unable 
to get needed medical treatment, and 
quotes Sakharov as saying Soviet police 
used ‘crude physical force’ against him and 
his wife. It is also rather stunning to think 
an entire city set up to contain trouble­
makers—where reporters are barred and 
travel even more restricted than in the rest 
of the country.
Also Amnesty International, an organ­
ization which monitors conditions of 
political prisoners in various countries and 
organizes protests about them, reports that 
Tor the past three months’ the Soviet 
Union ‘has been conducting a “major” new 
crackdown on dissidents.’ (AP). This is 
believed to be linked to protests over Afghan­
istan, and part of a cleaning-up effort for 
the Olympics. A syndicated Los Angeles
by Jeanne Abmayer
Cheating and plagarism are seen by 
many people as serious problems at 
C-MU. Recently, an addendum to the 
faculty handbook was passed, stressing the 
responsibility of the faculty and adminis­
tration to insist on high standards of aca­
demic integrity. The addendum states that 
faculty members “must emphasize by word 
and action that cheating or plagarism will 
not be treated lightly.” This is the first 
time that any official policy has been 
approved that holds the individual faculty 
member responsible for not taking appro­
priate action against cheating, including 
failure to “define” cheating in terms of 
the course he is teaching.
The new policy has serious implications 
for students who succomb " to these
temptations. Now, an instructor can 
personally assign a penalty, refer it to a 
departmental disciplinary committee, or 
take it to the University Committee on 
Discipline. When a penalty is imposed, 
“facts of the case and the penalty must be 
reported to the Dean of Student Affairs; in 
such cases the University Committee on 
Discipline may take further action.” 
Penalties for cheating and ^plagarism 
include lesser punishments (for minor 
offenses), failure of the course, or expul­
sion from the University
The reason behind this action is to 
insure high academic standards in the Uni­
versity. ‘To this end, the faculty must 
not tolerate or encourage cheating, plagar­
ism and similar unethical conduct on the 
part of students.”
Times article reports this clean- up includes 
‘purging of all the country’s Olympic 
cities’—Moscow and its suburbs, Minsk, 
Leningrad, Kiev, and Tallin^of Jewish 
activists and other dissidents during the 
Games. The arrests of 50 dissidents is also 
part of it.
Professor Herbert Simon, a Nobel Prize 
winner and a member of Carnegie-Mellon’s
academic community, has shared in this 
sense of concern, and acted on it. In a 
letter to Boris Lomov, the director of the 
Institute of Psychology of the Soviet 
Academy of Sciences, Professor Simon ex­
pressed this concern, saying he could no 
longer have contact with the Soviets while 
such repression of freedom continues. Fol­
lowing is the text of this letter.
Cheating rules for faculty
Dear Academician Lomov:
Thank you for your kind invitation to contribute an article to the new Psychological 
Journal. Unfortunately, I shall be un’able to accept your invitation, and I think I should 
explain the reasons for my refusal.
No human values are more important than the right of every man and woman to think 
their own thoughts and to speak freely what they think. With heavy heart I have seen that 
right denied more and more violently to the people of the USSR by their government. I 
have watched as some of the noblest and best citizens of your country, men and women 
with an obviously deep concern for the human condition, have been harrassed and often 
severely punished for seeking to exercise that right. I have seen them attacked and con­
demned for supporting the principles of the Helsinki agreements. I have in mind, of 
course, such scientists as Dr. Shcharanskiy and Academician Sakharov, but also artists and 
writers as well as ordinary citizens.
Until the USSR is able and willing to guarantee, at least at a minimal level, the basic 
rights to free thought and speech, I find it impossible to participate in scientific exchange 
with Soviet scientists, to visit the USSR, to accept Soviet visitors, or to engage in scienti­
fic communication that might be of use to an oppressive government.
I have great sympathy and affection for the Russian people and Russian culture, and 
have tried to acquire enough knowledge of your language to gain some access to that cul 
ture. I look forward to that future day whan all Russians will enjoy those essential free­
doms that heroes like Shcharanskiy and Sakharov, like so many of their forebears, have 
struggled for. Until that day arrives, I must keep my distance, lest I harm those Russians
who are the friends of freedom and aid those who are its enemies.
I am under no illusion that my actions, or even those of a majority of the American 
scientific community, are likely to sway the policy of the 0SSR government. But some­
times one must act to express one’s deepest beliefs independently of the chances that 
the action will have any practical effect. This is such a time.
With regret that I must decline your invitation, and with the hope that a day may
come in my lifetime when I can accept it,
I remain,
Sincerely yours, 
Herbert A. Simon 
Professor of Computer Science and Psychology 
Member, National Academy of Sciences

---------------------------------------------------

‘No law .. .abridging the freedom ... of the press ...’
by Renee Rosenfeld
Freedom of the press. Alright, it’s in the 
Constitution, you might think to yourself. 
If you’re like most, you have probably 
come to accept the concept without much 
thought. Some contend that the arm of the 
Constitution is not long enough to reach 
into the liberties of student publications in 
a private uniyersity. While CMU is common­
ly considered a private university, the fact 
is, that by accepting federal aid (of any 
type), the university is subject to the same 
constitutional liberties and obligations that 
govern other institutions.
Over the last decade, through the judi­
cial process, student publications have 
come to enjoy the same freedoms guaran- 
teed to the commercial and professional
The press operates un­
der the assumption that 
the public has the ‘right 
to know’
media. As stated in the First Amendment 
to the United States Constitution: 
“Congress shall make no law..abridging the 
freedom., of the press”. Some find that to 
adequately uphold this right, Congress 
should make no laws whatsoever. Others 
find that the decision should be left to the 
courts in determining a true abridgement
of liberties so that a few curtailments 
should exist for the public good.
As an exercise of these constitutional lib­
erties; the TARTAN Editorial Board voted 
to consider endorsement of a candidate for 
Student Government President. In an at­
tempt to determine the “public good”, the 
CMU Student Senate adopted a resolution 
recommending that the Editorial Board 
not ( endorse a candidate).
Legal precedent regarding censorship of 
student publications rests on the case of 
Dickey V. Sate Board of Education. In the 
Dickey decision the court held: “a govern­
ment-run college may not, under any cir­
cumstances, censor its student newspaper, 
even though it is its publisher”. This deci­
sion can be extended dirctly into the cur­
rent issue at CMU.
CMU is not government-run, however 
the university must adhere to the same 
same laws as a government-run college, be­
cause of its acceptence of government 
. funds. Here the Student Senate takes on 
the position of publisher. Through activity 
funds, the senate provides about one-half 
of the TARTAN’s funding. Any formal re­
quest by the Senate calling for the TAR­
TAN to alter content, which the Editorial 
Board deems suitable for publication, is an 
act of censorship. This is not to say that 
the Editorial Board should not respect re­
quests in regard to matters in the interest 
of the public good. Still, it is a dangerous 
precedent for the Student Senate to make 
any type of policy decision for the TAR­
TAN.
Traditionally, the press assumes the role 
of “watchdog” for the public. This of 
course, is also true for the student press.
John Belushi in "Animal House".Looking at: John Belushi
LOS ANGELES, CA (CPS)—“Directors 
tend to stereotype me,” John Belushi com­
plains when asked when—and if—he’ll ever 
be in a straight dramatic role. ‘They think 
of me as a crass, arrogant asshole.”
On the other hand, the former “Satur­
day Night Live” star and Blues Brothers 
singer didn’t hesitate slipping into his 
favorite, well, crass comedic style when he 
came to UCLA recently to accept a come­
dy award.
‘Thanks kids,” he told the 1500 in the 
audience when accepting the award. “I’m 
kind of moved. But not a lot.”
His acceptance speech was brief, follow­
ed by some even briefer answers to audi­
ence questions. Would he ever return to 
“Saturday Night Live?”
After a moment of thought, he answer­
ed “no.”
The audience waited in vain for Belushi 
to elaborate, and then began to protest.
“All right,” Belushi finally countered. 
“When hell freezes over.”
In an interview before his performance, 
though, Belushi said there was no hostility 
between the “Saturday Night” company 
and himself.
“I love ‘Saturday Night Live’ and I’m 
not bitter at all. I’m not a monster. I still
maintain contact with the cast.”
“Sometimes it’s time for things to end,” 
he said of the four-year affiliation with the 
show. “You feel you have to go into other 
areas, new fields.”
He’s currently working on his third 
movie, a film about the Blues Brothers,his 
musical act. He co-stars in it with another 
“Saturday Night” refugee, Dan Ackroyd. 
Belushi won’t say what the movie, schedul­
ed to be released June 20, is about. He did 
hint that “it’s a neat movie. There’s every­
thing but sex and drugs.”
After the movie is over, he wants to go 
“to an intensive lounge zone” for rest and 
relaxation.”
“Maybe then I’ll do another film or a 
record.”
Whatever it is, it will probably be 
another comedy. For John Belushi feels he 
is frequently eliminated from consideration 
for dramatic roles because of that “crass, 
arrogant and threatening punk image.”
But that image is based on his most 
famous role, in “Animal House.” “Bluto 
in ‘Animal House’ wasn’t like that (crass). 
He was a pretty nice guy People think that 
he threw food in the food fight. He just 
started it and ran out.”
OF THE
The press operates under the assumption 
that the public has “the right to know”. In 
the landmark Tinker decision (1969), 
the Supreme Court held that 
inter-communication between students was 
“an important part of the educational
process.” As an extension of the Tinker 
decision, the Handbook of Student 
Journalism states: “debates on public 
issues should be wide open, robust, 
and uninhibited - and no outside agency 
can interfere.”
Could you be a C.O.Ì
by Paul Smith
Draft Registration in the summer of
1980 seems to be a reality, and if you are 
affected by it you need to consider all your 
options. An option that is often over­
looked or thought of as unattainable 
is that of classification as a conscientious 
objector. If you thought that C.O. Status 
was available only to members of strictly 
non-violent religious organizations, or if 
you have just never considered it, read on. 
It could mean a lot to you.
A Conscientious Objector is a person 
registered with the selective service system 
and officially given C.O. Status. The 
legal definition of who is eligable for this 
option is unclear at the time, and therefore 
subject to a broad interpretation. The 
latest law concerning this definition is 
from April of 1972. It states that any 
person is exempt from military service 
“Who by reason of religious training or 
belief is conscientiously opposed to par­
ticipation in war of any form.” A per­
son so classified falls under the 1-A classi­
fication. The second C.O. classification, 10- 
10-A, is for people who feel they are con­
scientiously opposed to combat service, 
but could participate in some non-comba- 
tive way.
The law states that a person can’t object 
to participation on “Personal moral 
grounds.” Because of this ambiguous lan­
guage, this has been overthrown twice in 
Supreme Court cases. A person could con- 
cievably be an atheist and still be co- 
sidered a C.O. The term “Religious training 
or belief” has been expanded beyond 
meaning established religious doctrines.
An objector must prove that the person­
al ethics which would make him or her 
unable to participate are as deep a part of 
his or her life as, for example, belief in God 
is to the life of a Christian. That person 
must live his or her life in accordance with 
convictions, and be able to prove that be­
liefs control his or her actions. Ethics must 
be more than just intellectual or political 
beliefs. It comes down to proving that 
your conscience would not let you rest if 
you were contributing to war.
This is obviously difficult to establish, 
legally, but it is far from impossible. It is 
more clear cut if one is a member of a non­
violent church, like the Quakers or the 
Mennenites, for example. It is in no way 
limited to one or any kind of religious 
affiliation.
It is. important for the conscientious 
objector to take steps now, before registra­
tion, to have some record of his or her 
beliefs previous to filing for the classifi­
cation. You cannot file for conscientious 
objectorship until after you have registered 
for the draft, and after you’ve recieved 
your induction notice. At that point, you 
have ten days to file a report with your 
local draft board for C.O. Status. This is 
not a lot of time at all. So its’ imperative 
that you have had something on record 
before that time. The C.O. should now, in 
advance, write a br^f clear statement of his 
or her beliefs and make several copies of it. 
One should be sent to the “Central Com­
mittee for Conscientious Objectors,” (C.C. 
C.O.), an independent organization in 
Philadelphia, that offers guidance to C.O.’s; 
Their address is: P.O. Box 15796, Philadel­
phia, Pa. 19103.
If you are a member of a particular 
church, you should give a copy to your 
Rabbi or Clergyman to read and keep on 
file. If you have a lawyer, send one to him. 
Send a letter to whomever you might con­
sider best able to verify your beliefs. The 
idea is that when you are reviewed for C.O. 
Status, there is some existing evidence that 
you have beliefs you have been living by in 
some way, not just in relation to the draft.
If you think that being a Conscientious 
Objector is something you want to learn 
more about, there are people you can write 
or call for the information and counseling 
you’ll need. The C.C.C.O. is a very good 
place to start. Don’t wait, if you’re looking 
into it. The most important thing for you 
to do is act in advance.
Locally, for those who are considering 
Conscientious Objector Status, you can 
begin by laying the groundwork to regist­
ering for C.O. status. Start talking to your 
parents, clergyman, advisor, or professor
For further information contact: 
Pittsburgh CARD 
4401 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
682-3070

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-TÁRT AN-March \ Í, 1900
Residence Life selects Residence Assistants for '80-'81
Last week the Office of Residence Life 
announced the Residents Assistants 
selected for the 1980-81 academic year. 
The selected R.A.s are Maureen Steadman, 
Cindy Barr, Tamera Fair, Kathy Farley, 
Chris Rebmann, Fred Mynatt, Mark Card- 
well, Nora Lederle, Selene Carlo, Jim 
Foster, Kelly Smith, Mike Merritt, Mark 
Page, Victor Jordan and Steve Smith. 
Selected as alternates are: Ron Berstein, 
Cynthia Berkowitz, Doug Kirsop, Amy 
Cook, Fran Matten, Tammy L’Heureux, 
Ed Slosky, Pam Sopp, John Venzon, and 
Rasheda Williams.
The candidates went through an in­
volved selection process which was de­
signed by John Campbell, the Residence 
Director for the Morewood Gardens area, 
and a selection committee of five R.A.S. 
The process began with two required inter­
est sessions, at which the job of the R.A. 
was explained. Out of more than one hun­
dred students who attended the sessions, 
fifty-seven applications were received.
Each applicant is observed in a group
interview and is rated for his or her ability 
to work in a group. Groups of eight stu­
dents are given two decision making situa­
tions which the applicants solve in a discus­
sion. Each group is observed by a commit­
tee of ten R.A.S and the two residence 
directors. Because two interviews are held 
simultaneously and each group solves two 
problems, there are six observers watching 
each group at one time. Everyone on the 
committee observes both groups. The same 
committee of R.A.S observes all the inter­
views in order to improve consistency in 
the ratings. Jerry Marks and John Camp­
bell also observe each group because they 
have had some academic training in group 
processes and can observe aspects of the 
group interaction which may not be clearly 
apparent to the R.A.S. The purpose of 
the interview is-to observe each candi­
date’s ability to interact, listen, support 
group suggestions, and actively participate 
in the group. Some people help the group 
by clarifying the ideas of others. Domina­
ting the discussion does not bring successOpening at Forbes St.
by Celeste Cunningham
This week’s show at Forbes Street Gal­
lery features the works of Cheryl Webber, 
Rose Dubin, and Dawn Drake. A certain 
sensitivity is apparent in the works of these 
women which is both appealing and 
exciting.
Cheryl Webber, a double major in fiber 
and printmaking is showing silkscreens and 
weavings. Webber is an excellent colorist. 
Vibrant reds and red-oranges seem to 
dominate her works which are predomi­
nantly abstract geometric patterns. Bright 
complementary colors achieve the con­
trast and power which she strives for in her 
pieces. Her color sense is echoed through­
out her weavings. The added element of 
texture to her already developed sense of 
color and form make for appealing fiber 
constructions.
Rose Dubin brings additional color 
excitement to the show with her paintings, 
prints, and illustrations. Of particular inter­
est are Dubin’s woodcuts and lithos. 
Clearly present in her works is a sensiti­
vity to color and pattern. Admittedly influ­
enced by the decorative elements in 
Islamic and African art, Dubin expands
upon their ideas and incorporates similar 
elements to work within her own composi­
tions. An illusration major, Dubin extends 
her fascination with shape and color into 
her illustrations and paintings, creating a 
selection of exciting work.
A senior graphic designer, Dawn Drake 
carries her creative notions into other 
areas. Photography seems to dominate her 
portion of the exhibition. With nature as 
a source for much of her subject matter, 
Drake presents several interesting series, 
one of which explores the design possibili­
ties of a pinecomb. Supplementing the idea 
of photography, we find similar notions of 
film and camera creeping into her paper 
making processes. Intended to be a satire 
on Kodak papers, Drake creates a paper 
series of her own by implanting various 
Kodak products into her hand made 
papers. Some exciting works have been 
generated by these three artists. Don’t miss 
this show. The show opens Tuesday, March 
11th from 7 - 9 pm. Gallery hours are: 
Tuesday through Sunday from 12:30 - 
4:30, and Tuesday through Thursday 
evening from 7 - 9 pm.
We want to suck your...
Blood! Don’t let the concept turn you off too quickly. The Allegheny County 
Blood Bank is suffering from an unusual winter shortage of human blood. To help 
alleviate the shortage, Residence Life and A Phi O are sponsoring a blood drive on 
Monday and Tuesday, March 17 and 18 from 1 to 7 pm in the Morewood Rec. Room.
So what do you get if you decide to surrender your blood? In addition to personal 
satisfaction, your organization can win a party, sponsored by A Phi O (details page 
ll).To enter, let A Phi O know, no later than Friday March 14, that your group plans 
to Darticioate.
Don’t chicken out, who knows when you might need to suck somebody else’s 
blood.
March 17 and 18 1-7 PM 
Morewood Rec. Room
in the group interview.
The personal interview, the final step 
in the process, is used to observe how well 
the applicant interacts on a personal level. 
Either Jerry Marks or John Campbell, a- 
long with one R.A., interview each appli­
cant. In the personal interview, the stu­
dent is presented with hypothetical situa­
tions which he or she may face as an R.A. 
and is asked how to handle the problem. 
Although an idea of the answer is already 
formed, differing answers can be appreci­
ated for their value. The applicants’ re­
sponses reflect how well they appreciate
the inherent responsibility of the position. A list of the applicants was sent to the
Deans, some faculty members, and the 
present R.A.s in order to allow them to 
comment on the eligibility of the appli­
cants they knew. Comments from these
sources could both help a candidate who 
was not doing well and hurt a candidate 
who was doing well.
Unlike last year’s selection process in 
which applicants were screened by their 
applications and then screened again after 
their personal interviews before going on 
to the group interview, this year all appli­
cants were allowed to have both a group 
and personal interview in order to help 
their chances. The selection committee 
structured the selection process to give 
the process improved consistency as 
compared to earlier processes. John 
Campbell commented, “I think the 
selection process was successful and we 
selected a very strong staff for the coming 
academic year. We actually had more 
candidates than we had positions for.”
Poetry on the Buses
POETRY ON THE BUSES and Carne­
gie Mellon University will sponsor a day­
long event entitled “The Year of the Bus — 
a Conference on the Historical Interaction 
of Art and Technology,” on Friday, March 
14.
The conference schedule includes panel 
discussions, a media event — the wave-of- 
the-future partnership of technology with 
art; an original docu-drama by the Iron 
Clad Agreement highlighting historic 
modes of transportation and a retrospec­
tive exhibition of the poem cards published 
by POETRY ON THE BUSES.
The conference schedule includes panel 
discussions, a media event — the wave-of- 
the-future partnership of technology with 
art; an original docu-drama by the Iron 
Clad Agreement highlighting historic
modes of transportation, and a retrospec­
tive exhibition of the poem cards published 
by POETRY ON THE BUSES.
CMU Dean of the College of Fine Arts, 
Akram Midani, is chairman of the event, to 
which the public is invited at no charge. 
The conference will be held on the CMU 
campus in Oakland.
The intermedia panel will feature three 
guest artists from New York: a visual poet, 
a holographer, and a sound poet.
Richard Kostelanetz, a leader in the new 
field of visual poetry, will give a slide pre­
sentation with voice-over narration. Joining 
Kostelanetz on the panel will be Daniel 
Schweitzer, an artist/holographer whose 
work is featured in New York’s Museum of
Holography. The third panelist will be Ned 
Sublette, a sound poet. He combines lin­
guistics and music to produce poems 
specifically designed to be heard.
David Wilk, the Director of the Litera­
ture Program for the National Endowment 
for the Arts, poet, and publisher, will take 
part in a panel discussion on transportation 
in literature. James Romualdi, CMU Pro­
fessor of Civil Engineering and former 
Director of the Transportation Research 
Institute, will moderate the panel.
This year, POETRY ON THE BUSES 
posters will be seen by hundreds of thou­
sands of commuters in 25 major cities in­
cluding Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Los 
Angeles, Washington, D.C., Denver, San 
Francisco, Atlanta, Boston, Detroit and 
New York. The Port Authority Transit in 
Pittsburgh was the first exhibitor of the 
prQgram.
POETRY ON THE BUSES has a dual 
goal: to bring quality contemporary
poetry and art to a wide audience, and to 
make public transportation more enjoy­
able. POETRY ON THE BUSES com­
missions, produces, and places posters 
on buses and subways. Each poster carries 
original poetry and art, often the work of 
internationally known poets and artists.
The conference is underwritten in part 
by a grant from the Public Committee for 
the Humanities in Pennsylvania, a state­
wide funding organization affiliated with 
the National Endowment for the Human­
ities.
Gloss artist to speok
Dan Dailey, internationally known glass 
artist, will present a slide lecture on his 
work at 11:30 AM on March 14, in room
14 of the Margaret Morrison Building at 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Dailey is well-known for his art-deco 
style glass vessels and his hard-edged 
patterns, often using unusual glass frag­
ments fused on his work. He has held
Bausch & LombVolumeu 80l,0,
SOFT LENSES
$70 so
/ PAIR
For a no-obligation 
appointment, call
281-1100
QUALITY. Our lenses are the very same as those 
selling elsewhere for up to S3<H).
VALUE. Our low price includes: high-quality soft 
contact lenses, adjustments, training, orientation, 
carrying case, and as much eye care as needed for 
90 days. Hard contact lenses available @ S35 a pair. 
Price includes tints. Master Charge and Visa cards 
accepted. ^ ^
PRECISION
Foran-on blai -iirog-nli gaot
“Where You Get More Than Meets The Eye” 
Park Bldg., Nth floor, 355 Sth Avc.. Pittsburgh, PA 15222
numerous one-man and group exhibitions 
in Italy, France, Germany, Ontario and 
Philadelphia.
He is currently head of the glass pro­
gram at Massachusetts College in Boston 
and a designer for Cristallerie Daum in 
Paris. Dailey is also a member of the 
Board of Directors of the Glass Art Society 
of America.
The lecture is sponsored by the CMU 
Department of Art and is free and open to 
the public.
Erratum
The Combo' Tactic interview that ap­
peared last week was written by Paul 
Smith, not Christopher Pullman and 
Renee Rosenfeld.
"We don't need no
thought Control' 
- Pink Floyd

---------------------------------------------------

Maren il, lüöU-TAR TAN-Page 9
One day in the life of a CMU student voter
by A. J. Neft
TUESDAY, 8:30 AM: The TARTAN has 
decided to monitor a student at CMU to 
check student’s voter response to the Sen­
ate elections. This student was chosen at 
random by the TOPS Computer. Our staff 
monitor is following an anonymous stu­
dent (also known as “TS”) through his 
(generic use) day. At said time, TS is ob­
served carrying a T-square, large drawing 
pad, and several pencils. This student 
passed a large table with posters advertis­
ing the Student Senate Election. TS is 
overheard mumbling he is late to class. 
TUESDAY 10:45 AM: Generic student 
returns from class. Class ended at 9, due 
to teacher illness and TS stopped for break­
fast at Skibo. Said student was observed 
walking past Student Senate Election table 
in Grey—Matter: Skibo. TS gives said 
booth one disdainful look, then passes by.
Upon returning to dorm, passes original 
site of voting. Election worker asks if he 
would like to vote; student replies he is 
in a hurry. Pollworkers begin to snicker 
at students lack of creative excuses. 
TUESDAY, 12:15 PM: After a long sleep 
in a hot room, the generic student rises 
to attend afternoon class and eat lunch 
in Skibo. TS is observed in lobby of his 
dorm checking his mail...which is not in, 
to his disgust. For the fourth time, the 
student walks past the election booth. 
Worker asks him to vote. TS is in a hurry, 
again. Disgusted election workers discuss 
possible force-tactics. '
TUESDAY, 3:30 PM: Our anonymous 
student returns from his outings. He has 
been observed spending the afternoon in 
the Tartan Grill “mezzanine” discussing- 
of all things — politics. Never attended 
class. Returns and once again passed the
C
O
L
L
E
G
h
A
T
E
C 
R 
O 
S 
S 
W 
O 
R 
D
S
'ACROSS
1 Anger (2 wds.)
8 Began again
15 Ubiquitous (2 wds.)
16 Gormandized
17 Division 1n music
18 Seasoned pro
19 Classifieds
20 Route to success
22 "There —1940 
song
23 --- adjudicata
24 Robert of song
25 Part of a sonnet 
28 Guinness, et al.
30 Washington job, for 
short
32 Cognizant
33 Sweet drink
34 In a mess
36 Secular
38 As old as the hills
39 Boisterous
43 Some MIT graduates, 
for short 
46 Cousteau's milieu
47 Kin of G.R.E.^48 Awaiting (2 wds.)
50 Frightens
52 Horace or Thomas
54 To's partner
55 Many bills
56 Eye parts
58 Neighbor of Argen­
tina (abbr.).
59 Nonpaying tenant, 
potentially
62 Mawkishly senti­
mental
64 Family derivation
65 Supposed
66 Like some beer
67 Post office inventory
Edward Julius 
DOWN
1 "Cleopatra Jones"
star, --- Dobson
2 --- Cite
3 Placed in a 
particular group
5 Rudimentary seeds
6 Savage7 Nine Danish kings
8 Satisfy one's 
wanderlust
9 Between Tinker and 
Chance
10 Prepared
11 Actress Mary ---
12 Kind of bliss
13 Kin to a whatnot
14 Signified
21 Sandra and Ruby
26 Overhang
27 Ann-Margret's 
birthplace
29 Last place
31 Illusory
Collegiate CW79-7
34 599, to Cato
35 Type of bagel
37 "---- Misbehavin'"
39 New Mexico city
40 Marc Antony's 
wife
41 Kind of indicator
42 "--- Said," Neil
Diamond song
44 Shine brilliantly
45 More contrite
48 Injury's complement
49 Something a doctor 
makes
51 Series of mis­
fortunes 
53 Fraser of tennis
57 Surgeon Walter ---
60 So-so grade
61 Prepare to feather
63 Motown (abbr.)
Peace Corps 
VISTA
Resident Recruiter now located at the 
PITT YMCA 
Student Union 
Room 508
Call: KEVIN McCANN 644-5689
If no answer, please leave message at 
624-5912
Election Tables. Remember S----------!”
they shout. “Who?”
TUESDAY, 5:30 PM: TS awakes after his 
afternoon nap-to-Springsteen...to the tele­
phone ringing. An anonymous election 
worker asks him if he has voted - TS hangs 
up the phone in disgust - no one is going 
to force him to vote. He prepares to leave 
the dorm for dinner. Election workers have 
considered accosting him and forcing to 
vote...offering a raffle, free baked goods, a 
chance for a trip to the Bahamas over 
Spring Break, a two room apartment in 
a choice locale, ANYTHING to get this 
student to vote ...Student leaves dorm after 
lighting a cigarette and flicking ashes on
the ballot box-...
TUESDAY, 8:30 PM: Election workers 
have come up with a solution to the prob­
lem of the non-voting typical student... 
have quit monitoring his progress. 
WEDNESDAY, 9:30 AM: The Typical 
student arrives for his first class, somewhat 
hung over ...A friend walks up and congrat­
ulates him on his victory in the Student 
Senate (you know) elections..Jus what? 
The election officials “suggested” his name 
as a write-in and, in a sudden “last minute 
rush” of voters (56 between the three 
polling places) succeeded in naming the 
Typical Student (with his interest in 
politics) to the Student Senate...
Brewer designs costumes
by Leslie Weinberg
Bill Brewer, a staff designer of costumes 
for the CMU theater department, was 
recently commissioned to design the 
costumes for a modern ballet called “The 
Visit”. This ballet, choreographed by the 
artistic director, Patrick Franz, will be 
performed by the Pittsburgh Ballet The­
ater on March 14, 15, and 16 along with 
“Etudes”, and other ballets.
The underlying themes of ‘The Visit” 
seem to be the process of death, and the 
destruction of all mankind through war. 
Mr. Brewer‘s conception of the dance is 
that the male dancers are representative 
of universal warriors, trancending any 
relationship with history. They‘re sta­
lwart and strong warriors, glorified by 
unrealistic armor pieces that §eem to have 
been through every war since the beginning 
of time. They fervently dance till death. 
The transition of death is represented by a 
flowing goddess who. appears in a sleek 
beaded unitard, and a helmet with a pro- 
tuding blade. According to Mr. Brewer, the 
goddess “represents an attractive aspect of
death, viewing death as a resurrection.” 
As she appears, the soldiers shed their 
armor one by one and the goddess leads 
them to their destination. Together they 
explore what lies beyond the door which 
seperated life and death. Mr. Brewer 
feels that this transition is a “freeing 
process.”
For a costume designer, satisfaction 
comes in creating something appropriate 
for the theatrical demand. Mr. Brewer 
feels he has achieved this task using re­
latively few materials (in fact, costuming 
for this ballet was achieved at the relatively 
inexpensive cost of $1,000). The process 
of costuming a dance and costuming a 
theater production are two distinctly 
contrasting operations, because in theat­
er one can restrict and confine the body to 
create a character, but in ballet one must 
free the performer. These two illusions 
are quite different. You can find out 
for yourself just how well Mr. Brewer 
created the illusion of ‘The Visit” by 
attending one of the performances.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech. a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re­
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper;
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls”.
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
GMIT
opccnvim
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1100
Mon. Tues. Wed. 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISIONS AIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
10-7 687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25 00
NO
APPOINTMENTS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-March 11,1980
I **• I38Ä
HSSSSS*
This is the trip to Washington you’ve always dreamed of!
Pittsburgh CARD is one of the many sponsors of a march and rally against the 
draft, the rally will take place in Washington on Saturday March 22. At 11:00 AM 
those attending will assemble at the Ellipse. The march to the Capital will begin at 
12:30 PM, culminating with a rally on the steps of the Capital at 2:00 PM.
Pittsburgh CARD is sending a bus to Washington, for anyone interested in attending 
the rally. The bus will leave Skibo parking lot on Saturday morning at 6:00 AM and 
return at approximately midnight. Those interested should contact Pittsburgh CARD 
at: 4401 5th Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. Phone: 682-3070.
The speakers at the rally will be:
Bella Abzug 
David Dellinger 
Michael Harrington 
Representative Robert Kastenmeier 
Maggie Kuhn 
Representative Ted Weiss 
among others.
Sponsors include:
The United States Student Association, the 
Mobilization for Survival, the Youth Sec­
tion of the Democratic Socialist Organizing 
Committee, the Fellowship of Reconcilli- 
ation, the War Registers League, the CCCO, 
the Women’s International League for 
Peace and Freedom, and others.
ICa rnegr in TIomegring 
imeo wdhhus
Journalists, analysts, econo­
mists, pollsters, candidates, 
hypesters and special interest 
groups will also converge on 
Washington in the election 
summer of 1980.
But perhaps the greatest 
opportunities are reserved for 
the senous students who can 
study the political process up- 
close at The Amencan Univer­
sity, in: government, political 
science, business & government 
relations, communications, jour­
nalism and public relations.
A few hands-on internships 
and work study programs are 
still available. Summer study also 
offers ideal opportunities to earn 
credits for electives and to fur-
ther your degree program in Will yOU be there? 
the nation's capital. A of Summer Sessions
, , iìf11?3 Ìf I®06011 summer > l The American Universityof 1980, the Washington expen-} \ Washington, D.C. 20016 
enee at A.U. will provide /' \ 202-686-2697
the inquiring student with a lot‘s , '
more than "academics''
lalk with your academic/ \ 
counselor and call or ,'J 
wnte now for infor- /' mation about the / ° Rease send course
Summer of '80 / Pedule ? Please send
in D C There willx/speclhc ^—
never be another/ ------------------------------
opportunity like 
this until 1984.
Name.
Address.
TheAmericanN X University
' Hie Amencan University \ is an equal\ opportuni ty/affirrrki- _ ^ bve action university
__ N\_____\I-------/I
/
\ Phone.
I ---------I_____

---------------------------------------------------

March 11,1980-TARTAN-Page 11
A walkthrough Gallery12
I'M# 1C Ik VI ¦ MM n—A -m * ~by Kathy Krummert
Intriguing shapes and vivid colors encount­
ered me as I passed through the doors of 
Gallery 12 of the Museum of Art at Carne­
gie Institute. I entered the Associated Art­
ists of Pittsburgh 70th Annual Exhibition 
anticipating the works set before me. The 
exhibition consists of the works of artists, 
many who have gained national recognition 
from Ohio, West Virginia, and 
Pennsylvania, chosen on the criteria of 
quality. And indeed, quality is what I 
found.
I found enough to entertain me for hours, 
though my stay had to be much shorter 
Some pieces caught my eye immediately: 
human-like soft sculpture, handmade 
intricate ink sketches, gold jewelry, paint­
ings with the realism of photographs, light - 
catching stained glass. The list goes on. 
There are 234 pieces in all, in a variety of 
forms, including sculpture (wood, ceramic, 
soft, clay, plexiglass, marble) , painting, 
charcoal, ink, pencil), blown glass, weaving, 
and more.
I am a person whose interest in art is grow­
ing and who loves to spend time at exhibits 
I am not an art student or a critic. My 
judgement depends more on personal 
reaction and hopefully, some objectivity. I 
am impressed with the imagination that 
initiates and sustains the efforts of the 
artist and I find it challenging to try to 
interpret what the creator’s purpose is in 
his project. Sometimes when I cannot guess 
at all what a piece is about, I especially 
wish my knowledge about the materials 
and the form was greater. I enjoy my 
excursions anyway - it helps me to learn. 
Through the exhibit is almost over (it runs 
through March 13) I felt it was certainly 
worth going to see -- whether you are a 
person evaluating the work of your peers 
or simply someone curious about what 
contemporary art has to offer. If you are 
unable to see this show, the Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh maintians an upstairs 
gallery at the Arts & Crafts Center of 
Pittsburgh for its members to exhibit one- 
person shows year-round. The Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh have a lot to offer.
Editor prints ‘porn' letter
(CPS) - A “pornographic” letter written by 
a University of Washington student and 
printed in the UWDaily by a departing edit­
or who was “kicking up his heels,” has 
sparked a flurry of outrage from UW fac­
ulty, students, and Daily staffers.
The letter, which included charges of 
sexual harrassment and explicit details of 
the anonymous author’s alleged sexual 
adventures with two unnamed professors, 
ran with an editor’s note explaining that 
the author’s name had been “withheld by 
request.”
Daily editor Chris Villiers printed the letter 
on his last day on the job. Clark his 
successor, decried the publication of 
the “pure porn” in an editorial in the fol­
lowing edition.
‘The new editor is not responsible for the 
selection of material in any issue prior to 
this one ... similar material will not appear 
in the future,” he resolved.
Humphrey said that Villiers had printed 
the letter in a farewell issue that included 
some other “unusual” items.Offcampus housing
Are you currently living off campus or 
know someone who is? Inquiries are now 
coming into the Off-Campus Housing Of­
fice for housing situations beginning both 
in May and September. Currently our list­
ings for these times are low. If you are 
graduating, transferring, or vacating an 
apartment or house, or if you simply know 
of any housing situation which may soon 
be available, please contact the office. 
Early access to this information would 
assist the Campus Community.
The Off-Campus Housing Office is con­
stantly seeking new listings of available sit­
uations. These can include apartments, 
houses, rooms, roommate shares, or 
room and board in exchange for work. If 
you can be of any help please contact 
Off-Campus Housing, Room 56 Skibo. 
or call x3520, 3620. The following infor­
mation should be included:
Name:
Address:
Phone:
Area & Distance to CMU: 
walk: bike: bus:
Description of housing (furn, unfurn, 
apt, room, house):
Special Considerations:
Terms of occupancy (Lease, dates avail­
able):
Approximate rent or jobs expected: 
Restrictions (smoking, entertaining, 
kitchen priviledges):
In a protest against the letter > the Associa­
ted Students of the University of Washing­
ton withheld its regular advertising for 
one issue.
Barbara Krohn, publisher of the Daily 
and faculty advisor to the paper, told 
the Seattle Post-Intelligencer that she 
had been ill and absent from her office 
during the time Villiers was producing his 
last paper.
“I would have tried to encourage them not 
to run it,” Krohn said, pointing out that 
the Daily is not subject to administrative 
censorship.
So while the UW Board of Publications has 
announced its intentions to discuss the 
Daily editorial policy and the letter, Hum­
phrey says, “everybody is going to say that 
it shouldn’t have happened and it won’t 
happen again, and that will be the end of 
it. None of the parties involved have been 
able to contact Villiers since the letter 
appeared.
Blood Drive Contest
Purpose
There will be a blood drive on March 17 and 18,1:00 PM-7:00PM in the More- 
wood Gardens Recreation Room. The purpose of the contest is to encourage you 
to donate blood, and to encourage you to encourage your friends to donate.
Rules
1. In order to enter, a group must have at least 20 people. There is no upper limit, 
but A Phi O will not be able to supply enough of a prize (see below) for more than 
50 people.
2. Every competing group must be known to A Phi O by Friday, March 14. In 
order to be accepted, the group must be a “natural” grouping of students. The off­
ice of residence life will divide dorm residents into groups by dorm and floor. Frat­
ernities and sororities are natural groups. Student organizations, classes (such as 
15-104 Sec.A) and departmental groupings (such as “senior EEs”) are all accept­
able. (What we do not want is a group of people who have in common only that 
they donated blood.)
3. The winning group will be the one with the highest percentage of members act­
ually donating blood. In case of ties, the larger group will win.
4. A member of two or more groups will count toward all of those groups.
To Enter
Send the name of the group to “Blood Drive, A Phi O, Box 100 (Campus Mail).” 
Include the name and number of a representative to contact for questions and con­
firmation that your group is entered. It must be possible to determine who is a 
member of the group, and how many members there are in all. If this is not ob­
vious, A Phi O would expect, you are asked to circulate a (non-binding) sign-up list, 
lists may be obtained from Skibo information desk or the office of residence life in 
More wood Gardens. They should be returned to Residence Life as early as possible 
(preferable by March 11). The deadline for entering the contest is Friday, March 
14.
Prize
The prize is a party for the winning group. A Phi O will arrange the details 
(when, where and what is to be supplied) with the winning group. The default is 
pizza and beer, but we are flexible.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Fraa Pregnancy Tatting. 
Evoning Hours Aval labia
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
Wednesday, March 12 9:00 AM-12:00 PM 
Thursday, March 13 9:00 AM-9:00 PM
Vote at the following locations:
Donner-Donner and Hill dorm residents 
Morewood-Morewood and
Mudge residents
Skibo-all off-campus residents
SEATS AVAILABLE:
(6) CIT (4) MIS (2) H&SS (l)AMS (6) AC FA 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESIDENT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-March 11,1980
Currents
lMi8MMM8fl8888868886888a8Q8a8Q8888fi80Q8Q80QQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQQQ888Æ8888Æ8MMMMMMMM$MMMj8888888Qfl“ÏÏSSSÏÏT" CMU TRAVEL OFFICE CALL 378-2921
OS88POQOOQOOQOQOOOOOOQQ8Q8888aMi88fl88888688868B88fl88Mfl88S8888QB88688888880808Q80QOOOQQQQOQQQQ()OQQOQOOOOOOOOO
Two universities impose dorm visitation hours
(CPS) Kent State University has become the 
second school in recent weeks to adopt 
more restrictive dorm policies that ef­
fectively prohibit overnight guests in the 
dorm.
Two weeks ago, the University of Pitts­
burgh announced its new visitation policy, 
undertaken, according to Pitt administra­
tors, to improve dorm security. A January 
1979 dorm murder there had lead to the 
review of security procedures.
Kent State officials say security also 
inspired its ban on overnight guests. Pre­
vious attempts to make dorms more 
secure — keeping dorm doors locked, and 
requiring that residents register their 
guests, and asking that residents escort 
guests through the dorms — “really didn’t 
work at all,” says Roger Sorochty, director 
of Residence Services.
“There have been roughly the same 
number of crimes reported this year as last 
year,” he points out. The crimes have 
“ranged from simple vandalism — like 
someone setting off a fire extinguisher — to 
crimes against students’ personal prop­
erty. . . We felt we had to establish some 
different types of limits.”
The new Kent State policy, which be­
comes effective next fall, bars overnightsw
guests of the opposite sex in all the 
university’s 26 residence halls. Over­
night guests of the same sex will be per­
mitted in three upperclassmen dorms 
during the weekend, though the guests 
must be registered. In the other 23 halls, 
residents can have guests in their rooms 
between 10 AM and midnight Sunday 
through Thursday, and until 2 AM on Fri­
day and Saturday.
The new policy is not without opposi­
tion, though it has thus far been more 
understated that the student protest 
that greeted similar rules at Pitt.
The Kent Interhall Council (KIC) has 
asked the university President to appoint 
a new committee, which would include 
student participation, to adopt new visi­
tation policies.
“Year by year, the (visitation) policy 
has gotten more restrictive,” says KIC 
Executive Vice President Harold Robin­
son. The issue is no longer the policy it­
self but “whether or not students have 
some input into the policy changes that are 
taking place.”
The new student-run KIC is nevertheless 
opposed to the specifics of the new policy.
“You come to the university to become 
an adult,” Robinson explains. “How can
you become an adult if you have restric­
tions?”
Sorochty, who hadn’t known Pitt was 
contemplating the same policy until he 
read about it in the papers, says the Kent 
State administration is more concerned 
with security than regulating student be­
havior.
“My understanding is that legally the 
university has a very direct legal liability” 
for crime in the dorms. “The relationship
between the university and the resident is 
different from that of a landlord towards a 
tenant,” he says. Recent court decisions 
say that “we must take reasonable steps to 
protect the residents.”
He recalls that students protested when 
the university decided to keep dorm doors 
locked 24 hours a day last year. “People 
worried about students having to carry 
around dorm keys all day. But it has 
worked out well. I think students are find­
ing it beneficial.”Concession referendum
On Saturday, March 8, the Society of 
Women Engineers (SWE) held their 3rd an­
nual Technical Careers Conference. Col­
lege students from CMU and other local 
colleges, as well as two hundred liigh 
school students spoke to representatives 
from 15 major corporations, and attended 
several college workshops held throughout 
the day.
“All in all, it was a great success,” said 
Sue Swierzewski, who co-chaired the 
event with Amy Pierce. Planning for the 
day had begun in November, when a var-
UUIIVCICIIVC Ml ««a«« vatwwwj.
iety of corporations (from McDonnel- 
Douglas to RCA) were invited to partici­
pate.
The high school students, besides speak­
ing with the corporations, toured the 
campus and visited labs in Science Hall, 
Doherty, and Hamerschlag.
The workshops coordinated by SWE 
included such topics as “Making the fin­
ancial transition from college to employ­
ment”, “Summer jobs and resumes”, and 
a series of mock interviews, simulating 
what a real interview with a corporation 
would be like.
continued from page 1
away unfairly and with no previous warn­
ing. Her initial reasearch to discover who 
specifically made the decision became a 
merry-go-round of names. Banner said 
Eichmuller asked for the concessions; 
Eichmuller claimed he was told to take 
them over; Oscar Mayer claims the respon­
sibility rests with President Cyert. Lubon’s 
persistence got an answer from Dean 
Swank, who himself was responding for 
Preadent Cyert. Swank stated in a Nov. 
29 memo,“The actual decision to termi­
nate A Phi O’s management of the foot­
ball concession was made by Mr. Banner, 
Director of Athletics, to whom responsi­
bility for the%ianagement of the stadium 
has been assigned.” Banner later apoligized 
to Lubon for not notifying her earlier.
Attitudes towards concession manage­
ment may be changing, however, after 
Food Service’s economic performance and 
customer complaints this past year. Foot­
ball concessions showed a net profit 
of $597, but the basketball concession 
showed a net loss of S473, for a combined 
net profit of $124. This figure does not 
include a support service charge which is 
a percentageof the profit given to Auxiliary 
Services. This charge was differed because 
of the newness of Food Service concession. 
If properly adjusted, the combined net 
profit would appear even lower.
A Phi O figures for *77**78 show a 
combined net profit of about $400 for 
basketball and football concession. (They 
have no support service charge.) During 
two of the football games, concession sold 
out, of which the earliest was half-time of 
Homecoming. At that game, Banner re­
fused A Phi O permission to go out and 
buy additional supplies.
Some students complained that Food 
Service concessions were not convenient 
Michael Frye (Letter to the Editor,
1/22/80, Quality makes Quantity) said, 
“It (Food service concessions) was slower, 
more expensive and lower quality than the 
year before.” This does not prove A Phi 0 
is a superior conscessions tender: their lines 
were also long and slow. A Phi O does, 
however, charge lower prices and donates 
a large portion of their earnings to char­
ity. The remainder is used for a member­
ship drive. Opinions like the one above 
may have a major influence on who will 
manage concession in the fall.
Lubon is gathering information like the 
results of the referendum for A Phi 0 
support which she will present to Warner 
Hall. Although Banner is Director of 
Food Service Concessions she feels the 
decision to regain concession management 
lies with Cyert. A Phi O is willing to 
negotiate management responsibility with 
Food Service and Dr. Cyert, but only to a 
certain point. If there is no way of obtain­
ing total control, she would prefer most of 
the responsibility with Food Service’s help. 
A similiar arrangement occurred ten years 
ago until expense cutting forced a separa­
tion. If Lubon cannot receive this type of 
agreement, she might forfeit A Phi O’s 
interest in concessions altogether.
Vote 
Tomorrow 
Or 
Thursday
March 19 Reed Agnew
Manager of Design Services 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation 
Making Design a Good Business
PH 100Wed. 8 pm
Design Lecture Series
Sponsored by the Department of Design 
Carneg>e-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

CMU presents Miss Reardon
Mary Queen of Scots (Susan Chapek) is comforted by her maid Jane Kennedy (Anne Edler) as 
she awaits her execution in The Columbia Encyclopedia Presents Mary Stuart, Queen of Scot­
ian. Th. new play by CMU professor David Ball, which has received very favorable reviews from 
Pittsburgh's newspapers, continues at Lion Walk through this weekend. Showtimes are Thurs 
«toy. Friday, and Saturday at 8 PM. (See the February 19 TARTAN for a feature on Dav.d Ball. 
Mary Stuart will be reviewed in these pages next week by Michelle Weinberg.»
There is outstanding, free theater on 
the campus of Carnegie-Mellon University. 
The CMU Drama Department has already 
produced two exceptional mainstage 
dramas this year, Tom Stoppard’s Rosen- 
crantz and Guilderstern Are Dead and the 
hilarious Lady from Maxim’s, as well as the 
annual musical, Brigadoon and numerous 
studio theater productions. These shows 
are almost always successes, and the ones 
that fail don’t fail for lack 01 imagination 
or effort.
If you’ve been missing all of this talent, 
you have another chance beginning this 
Thursday Night in the Kresge Theatre, 
when the Drama Department will present 
Paul Zindel’s And Miss Reardon Drinks A 
Little.
And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little is a 
drama about the reunion of three sisters 
in their deceased mother’s home; what 
ensues is an evening of revelation and con­
fession for the three sisters, and an evening
of humor and psychologically taut drama 
for the audience.
Paul Zindel, the playwright, is most 
famous for his Broadway production of 
The Effecr of Gamma Rays on Man-in- 
The-Moon-Marigolds, which will have a 
production at The Pittsburgh Playhouse in 
the coming weeks. You have, therefore, 
two opportunities to see the work of an 
important American dramatist in one 
month, and you have absolutely no excuse 
to miss the first one.
And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little is 
directed by James Baffico, and features 
Tama Bodenrader, Jane Campbell, Caroline 
Carrigan, Roberta Fox, Michael Goldberg, 
and Carla Weinberg. The sets are by Stephen 
Gorski, the costumes are by Don Newcomb, 
and lighting is by Lisa Skirpin.
CMU students can obtain their (free) 
tickets by stopping by the CMU Box Office. 
The show will run from March 13 to March 
22 with -Saturday Matinees.
The minstrel Kije. Mark Simens. gives aid to the court jester and drunk. Punch (Abe Feldman
script, an idea he has been working with 
for some time, last year, and the word 
began to spread in his circles.
When the music and lyrics of freshmen 
Darrell Turner and Art Benjamin were ad­
ded, the enthusiasm began to swell, and the 
word began to spread in wider and wider 
circles.
Kije was the board’s overwhelming 
choice for the spring musical, and Matt 
Sweigart was the promising choice for the 
director who would regulate and preserve 
this enthusiasm.
The other ingredients for Scotch and 
Soda’s potential rebirth, according to 
Sweigart, are good scripts and advance 
preparation. In years past, there were com­
posers without scriptwriters and play­
wrights without composers. This year, 
however, all of the factors behind a good 
script seem to be present. Turner and 
jamin’s (that even sounds good!) music 
promises to be a significant level above 
that in previous years, and McGregor’s 
script, which has been, and still is, on 
reserve in Hunt Library, has received favor­
able notices.
Another important ingredient is a ded­
icated and talented troupe of actors. Kije’s 
cast gives an unmistakeable impression of 
dedication and enthusiasm. They are en­
couraged by the originality and challenge 
of their venture, and there is a consensus 
that they are working with a good script, 
and a hard-working director who “knows 
his stuff.”
Indeed, director Matt Sweigart does 
seem to be the quintessential driving force 
behind Kije. He has been involved with 
S ’n’ S since his freshman year at CMU, and 
has had an extensive background in musical 
productions. He has a light in his eye and 
blood-stained thumb from set-building that 
promises success.
Kije, according to Matt, “is the story of 
how a wizard plays matchmaker and raises 
a lowly minstrel (Kije) to the level where a 
princess can love him.” The resolution of 
their obvious class difference is the guts of 
Kije. Mark Simens, one of an impressive 
group of freshmen architects that may play 
an integral part in the S ’n’ S renaissance, 
takes the title role of Kije. Sophomore 
art major Chris Garrity plays the princess 
who has just completed her secluded 
religious training and has come home to 
be married off.
For the first year, Scotch and Soda will 
present its Spring Musical on two consec­
utive weekends (April 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 
19), which will, among other things, give 
the cast and crew a much-needed rest, and 
give the TARTAN an opportunity to re­
view the show before Spring Carnival week­
end. This is just another of Matt Sweigart’s 
innovative and promising ideas.
The TARTAN is excited about Scotch 
and Soda’s return to the forefront of CMU 
activity, and will support its efforts in per­
iodic feature articles on its writers and cast, 
leading up to Kije’s anxiously awaited 
opening.
entertainmentEdito Signs of Renaissance in Scotch and Soda
John Collard, as the
by Richard Gorelick
Scotch and Soda is one of Carnegie-Mel- 
lon’s oldest and most illustrious institut­
ions. Since 1938, this organization has 
been dedicated to producing original 
scripts, and in its heyday, it featured the 
original version of Steven Schwartz’s Pip­
pin. Several times, Scotch and Soda was 
awarded the prestigious Broadcast Music, 
Inc., award for the best original collegiate 
script, competing in an Ivy League class
There is a growing feeling among S ’n’ 
S personnel and knowledgeable onlookers 
that, after some lean years, Scotch and 
Soda may be returning to its days of honor 
and glory. Several years ago, the Drama 
Department instituted a policy that pro­
hibits its students from participating in 
major productions outside of the depar­
tment. A very sensible policy, but one of 
the organizations that suffered the most 
from this policy was Scotch and Soda. In 
particular, good scripts stopped coming 
in, and a slow deteriorating process began 
when these inferior scripts attracted apa­
thetic talent who produced mediocre 
shows that attracted even more inadequate 
scripts, and so on and so on.
This deterioration seemed to culminate 
in 1977, when S ’n’ S presented Something 
Feudal. The TARTAN reviewer, David 
Chapman, wrote, “Lack of personnel some­
times makes it necessary for a few people 
to take on the bulk of responsibility,” and 
in the case of Something Feudal, the result 
was a hopelessly unfocused show. Last 
year’s Watercolors was another disappoin­
ting production.
It is this “lack of personnel” that has 
plagued S ’n’ S over the years, and its re­
building process may prove to be as slow 
and frustrating as its deterioration. There 
are, however, the first glowing signs of a 
renaissance for S ’n’ S already in evidence. 
Kije just might be the musical that will 
initiate this renaissance.
One of the major ingredients for a suc­
cessful rebuilding process is enthusiasm, 
and Kije has enthusiasm! Scott McGregor, 
a second year GSIA student completed his

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-March 11,1980
IRONCITY
SCHLITZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLUNG ROCK SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT MICHELOB PABST 
MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCHSCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
• CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERSMILIEUS. COLT 45. MOISON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK
STROHS HtlMlKEN LIGHTOne different 16 07 6 pk tenured etch wer*
SCHLITZ • PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT* STROHS * ROLLING ROCK
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER­
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES• SPECIALTY ITEMS •
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES • PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
------------- IMPORTS ---------------
rT'AV*?? Il rT'A''?/
•BASS ALE England •DORT HANSA Garmany •SAM MIOUEL PhttpinM •SPATENBRAU Garmany •ST PAUU QML Garmany •PILSNER URQUELL CMC* •QLNNESS STCHJT Irland •DAS XX ECXHS Maxico •WURZBURGER Garmany •HARP LAGER Iraland •LOWENBRAU Qwwy •OKEEFE AU Cn* •DINKEL ACKER Garmany •TECATE Maxico •ISENBECK W Garmany •«YSTALLIWy •MACKESON England
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH , PA 15213
HERE IS OUR HELP FOR 
CAMBODIAN REFUGEES
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY _____________________________________________STATE_____ZIP
(MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO CARE.)
CARE.
FUND FOR CAMBODIANS
Kaufmann’s 
5th Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Through
CARE
AI I That Jazz: much too much
by Michelle Weinberg
All That Jazz earns its praise in its fanci­
ful, if not unbelieveable, treatment of 
death. The action centers around the Ufe of 
an aggressively talented choreographer in 
New York played by Roy Scheider, and is 
unmistakably fashioned after the movie’s 
actual director-choreographer, Bob Fosse. 
Fosse, through All That Jazz, ostensibly 
attempts to “choreograph his own death.” 
Trapped on the theatrical treadmill, Joe 
Gideon, as he is named in the film, dan­
gerously juggles choreography, film edit­
ing, marriage, fatherhood, a lover, and 
sex, the latter being more of a favorite 
sport than anything else. As his health 
declines, encouraged by incessant cigar­
ette smoking and excessive drinking, Gide­
on relys on daily doses of Dexedrine to 
keep his body functioning and up to the 
tremendous demands upon his stamina. 
He eventually experiences a heart attack. 
His physical degeneration, however, only 
echoes a deeper, emotional one.
Throughout the film Fosse explores 
his own attitudes and history with a Holly­
wood angel of death portrayed by Jessica 
Lange as a beautiful young woman. The 
standard metaphor of a man “courting 
death” seems to be Fosse’s intent here. In 
addition, there are scenes from a film that
Joe Gideon is editing, in which a comedian of the Lenny Bruce genre sardonically rum­
inates upon death. The tedium with which 
these flashes are repeated simply weakens 
the message rather than reinforce the 
tenuousness of life for this man. This tenu­
ous quality is what Fosse wants to empha­
size; the thin line of death walked by the 
man who lives too obesessively.
Fosse uses All That Jazz as a vehicle for 
his own rueful contemplation of the exces­
ses of his adult life. However, he projects 
the inevitable crash in the slickest, glossi­
est, most outrageous manner, which leaves 
this reviewer question as to whether or not 
death, to Fosse, is a serious issue. For him, 
it seems to be merely more theatrical ma­
terial to be burlesqued rather than the very 
pathetic, humbling force it really is. This 
is where many of the criticisms of Fosse’s. 
egoism seem iustly applied.
In the garish hospital hallucination 
scene, Gideon lies strapped to a hospital 
bed while the women in his life deliver 
their “I told you so” eulogies in a hokey, 
vaudeville musical sendoff. The statement 
is flashy, but again, not substantive 
enough.
Also, Fosse recklessly mixes clips trom 
on open heart surgery with dance numbers; 
another brash image that initially takes the 
breath away, but upon contemplation 
seems to have little purpose.
Joe Gideon’s final goodbye, 
which he is forever making, a hackneyed 
lyric to the tune of “Bye Bye Love” 
(changed to “Bye Bye Life”), is, of course, 
the gala event of the show business world. 
We are reminded of Mama Rose’s advice ir; 
Gypsy, “Give’em a good finish and they’ll 
forgive you for anything.”Well, Ben Vereen 
is there, all dolled up. performing one Mas­
ter of Ceremonies libation after another, 
until the audience is won over. Joe Gideon 
is their superstar, the retiring entertainer 
giving his farewell performance. Instead of 
evoking pity for his pathetic life, Fosse/ 
Gideon evokes only the sort of awe coup­
led with disdain that one might feel at an
___ J9RR9RI
ostentatious wedding or Bar Mitzvah.
However, for all its campiness, the 
dance scenes in All That Jazz are explosive. 
Fosse’s choreography is indeed masterful. 
It is moving and inspirational in a way that 
is not often experienced. Fosse’s distinctive 
trademarks of the concave back, low hip, 
and tumed-in leg are some of the most ex­
pressive in the dance world. Fosse’s mani­
pulation of his dancers in a particular show
number ‘Take Off With Us” especially re­
vealed his choreographic genius. The bodies 
sensuously slithered, then sharply strutted, 
and created an electric performance. The 
audience in the movie theatre was captivat­
ed entirely by the magnetism of the danc­
er’s movements on the screen. Fosse’s 
attempt at creating a moving personal dra­
ma may have missed its mark, but his cho­
reography was directly on target.Simon's Chapter II goes from stage to screen
by Tennyson Bardwell
After closing a successful New York 
run, Neil Simon’s Chapter II took to the 
screen a few weeks ago with instant, if un­
deserved popularity.
The string of theatrical hits Simon has 
produced over the last two decades dis­
credits any skepticism of his masterful 
play writing talents. Knowledge of his 
authorship alone can run a show for three 
months, and Simon has never found it ne­
cessary to entrance an audience by any­
thing more than a remarkable script. These 
exhibits of comic genius have inundated
Food and medicine for hungry and sick
CAMBODIAN REFUGEES
Send Your 
Help
the amusing side of Broadway with, at 
times, as many as four concurrently run­
ning plays.
When adapting for the screen, however, 
the golden plays of Neil Simon painfully 
lose something special. The Broadway ver­
sions are so patterned to the realm of 
theater space and audience that, without 
equal artistic dexterity in the cinematic 
sphere, the original qualities fade with 
every shot. Simon can write exclusively for 
the screen (Heartbreak Kid, Murder By 
Death) with success, though his major 
sequences still possess an undeniably sta­
gey atmosphere. It is mainly when adapt­
ing his theatrical work, however, that his 
ingenuity runs thin.
Chapter ll is an autobiographical piece 
about the death of Simon’s first wife of 
twelve years and his remarriage to actress 
Marsha Mason who plays herself in the pic­
ture (and has been nominated for an 
Academy Award) opposite James Caan’s
portrayal of Mr. Simon.
Though embellished with jokes of 
multifarious styles, Chapter II carries an 
air of solemnity. It is a beautiful piece 
of dialogue, but, unfortunately for Neil 
Simon, films do not survive on dialogue 
alone. If only he had the ability to add 
clever visual images to his verbal pro­
fundities, Chapter II would be as good, 
if not better, on screen as on stage.
The film is mildly entertaining but it 
is also a bit lazy. The pace almost never 
changes, and- individual performances 
help little. Caan and Mason are believable 
but unimaginative. Valerie Harper is visi­
bly tom between playing her role as a 
comedienne or actress, and consequently 
does neither. Joe Bologna turns in the 
most entertaining performance of the 
cast, showing a rare discretion about the 
time and place for comedy.
Chapter II is most accurately described 
as “adequate.”

---------------------------------------------------

March 11,1980—TARTAN—Page 15
UFO lands in Pittsburgh: Stanley destroyed!
by Alan Spero
Music Editor 
UFO literally brought the house down 
during their concert at the Stanley Theatre 
last Tuesday night. The British rockers had 
the frenzied crowd on their feet for the en­
tire show.
They opened» with “Alpha Centauri,” 
then went right into a pounding version of 
“Letting Go,” both from their latest re­
lease, No Place to Run. The show featured 
their new guitarist, Paul Chapman, whose 
screaming leads dominated the first four 
songs of the show, all of which came from 
the new album. His movements onstage 
were fairly limited, though, and for the 
most part, the dominating performers on 
stage were vocalist Phil Mogg and bassist, 
Pete Way, co-founders of UFO. Their stage 
presence displayed much more confidence 
and skill over last year’s show.
The one fault with the concert became 
apparent as soon as Way began the opening 
riff of “Cherry” from Obsession. Guitarist 
Chapman just did not seem to be into the 
rhythm of the song. In fact, for the rest 
of the material, except “Mystery Train,” 
from No Place to Run, he seemed to be 
slightly out of step in the leads. Last year, 
touring with UFO just after their previous 
gruitarist, Michael Schenker, quit, Chap­
man had followed all of Schenker’s leads 
practically note for note. But now, since 
the release of the new album, it seems 
Chapman tried to put his own style, pre­
valent on No Place to Run, into the old 
Schenker tunes and it just didn’t work as 
well.
Their sound was, as last year, incredi­
bly loud. But, unlike last year, it seemed 
the Stanley Theatre wasn’t prepared for 
it. In the middle of the set, right at the
David Hurd plays his organ
David Hurd, a rising young organ virtu­
oso, will play a concert as part of the 
Organ Artists Series on March 16 at 8:00 
PM at Calvary Episcopal Church Shady 
Ave. and Walnut St. in Shadyside. The 
Organ Artists Series is sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the American Guild 
of Organists and presents several concerts 
each year by outstanding organists.
In 1977 at the International Congress 
of Organists, Mr. Hurd won first place in 
both the Improvisation and Playing con­
tests. This unusual feat has been followed 
by recital appearances in many areas in­
cluding New York City, Dallas, Montreal, 
and Washington, D.C. He has been selected 
to be one of the recitalists this summer in 
the American Guild of Organists national 
convention in Minneapolis.
Mr. Hurd is a graduate of Oberlin 
College and has pursued graduate work at
the Manhattan School of Music and the 
Universtiy of North Carolina. While in 
North Carolina he also served as Instructor 
of Organ, Assistant Chapel Organist, and 
Divinity School Organist at Duke Univer­
sity.
At present Mr. Hurd is Organist and 
Assistant Professor of Church Music at The 
General Theological Seminary in New 
York. He is also a composer whose works 
were prominently featured last summer at 
the Assocaiation of Anglican Musicians 
Conference in New York.
His program in Pittsburgh will include 
works by Dupre, Franck, Bach, Gheinber- 
ger, Vieme and Reger and an improvisation 
on several themes to be given to him at 
the concert.
Tickets at $5.00 are available at the 
door.
ICELANDER TO EUROPE
\iS tilu
ANDA
LOW RIRE
¦499*533
Roundtrip from 
New York 
to Luxembourg
Roundtrip 
from Chicago 
to Luxembourg
No restrictions
Confirmed reservations* free wine with dinner, cognac after* 
no restrictions on stays to 1 yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid 
from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and 
prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase 
tickets in the U.S.
See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN 
Icelandair P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
toll-free number in your area.
Please send me: Q An Icelandair flight timetable.? Your European Vacations brochure.
n
Name__
Address 
City___
State.
I 
I 
IL_.
Zip_
ICELANDAIRS’Still your best value to Europe
end of “Only You Can Rock Me,” plaster 
from the ceiling above rhythm guitarist, 
Paul Raymond, came dropping down a- 
round him. Raymond stood there stunned 
for a second, while Mogg, pointing the 
other way, joked to the audience, “I think 
we’ll play to this side of the stage for 
now.”
They finished up the evening with 
“Lights Out” and then came on for two 
encores of their oldies, “Rock Bottom”
and “Shoot, Shoot.” Although the guitar 
lines didn’t mesh at all times, the rowdy 
audience was more appreciative of the 
power rock UFO supplied.
Opening for UFO, were Chicago new­
comers, Off Broadway, touring in support 
of their debut album, On. At first, they 
seemed to be a bright, tight, power-pop 
unit with lots of catchy melodies, but after 
the third song, the melodies lost their dis­
tinctiveness and so did the band.Opera's Freni shines
by Timothy LeVan
Mirella Freni, soprano, offered a delight­
ful evening of operatic arias, chansons and 
songs last week. The concert, a benefit for 
the Ezio Pinza Scholarship Fund at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, was held at the Jew­
ish Community Center in Oakland.
The simple “Caro Mio Ben” by Giordini 
opened the program and gave the audience 
the first of many glimpses of Ms. Freni’s 
flawless voice.
“Dove Sono,” and its preceeding recit­
ative was sung with dramatic force and 
vocal assuredness, and a great sensitivity to­
ward musical line. Her soft, “floated” be- 
gining was most welcome and added to 
overall meaning of the aria.
Rossini’s “L’lnvito” and “La Promessa” 
followed, adding to the thrill of Ms. Freni’s 
georgeous, refined and poignant voice. Her 
absolute vocal control, interpetational 
prowess, excellant diction and pleasing 
vocal sound combined to give a powerful 
musical performance.
Verdi’s “Tu Che le Vanita” from Don 
Carlos ended the first half of the program 
with a total showing of Ms. Freni’s ability 
to combine all of her musical, interpetation­
al, vocal, and dramatic talents for a totally 
thrilling and moving aria. Her knowledge of 
the aria’s dramatic significance, and her
consummate musicianship were all very 
evident.
Two Duparc and Faure chansons opened 
the second half of the program. “Dupuis 
and le Jour” from Charpentier’s Louise 
was sung at a rather slow tempo, yet was 
well controlled. Ms. Freni’s supurb breath 
control and ability to caress musical phrases 
were exemplified in this aria. Her master­
ful build to the aria’s end was very well 
planned and executed.
Three songs by Rachmaninoff ended 
the printed program with touching success. 
To hear these sung in Russian was a true 
delight. Ms. Freni seemed to have a thor­
ough knowledge of Russian (as she did 
French and, of course, Italian) and sang 
with utmost assuredeness and impeccable 
diction.
Perhaps most memorable of the entire 
evening was her second encore. From her 
Metropolitan Opera debut (1965) opera, 
Puccini’s La Boheme, Ms. Freni treated the 
audience to “Si‘ Mi Chiamano Mimi.” The 
aria was quite apparently very moving for 
her and one which is readily associated 
with her.
In general, Ms. Freni’s recital was on a 
level not often heard in Pittsburgh, and 
hopefully was appreciated as a rare mo- 
the city’s cultural offerings.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-TARTÀN-March 11,1980
COLLEGE STUDENTS within one 
year of completing B S. M.S. or 
Ph.D. in physical sciences, 
mathematics or engineering. 
Financial aid available for 
those candidates completing 
final year of degree with sub­
sequent training period in 
nuclear theory and prototype 
reactor operation. Research 
and design positions also e-xist. 
Receive $700 per month up to 
10 months plus other benefits 
on your way toword achieving 
your degree and a commission 
in the naval reserves. Com­
petitive applicants must 
possess U.S. citizenship and be 
under 28 years of age. Send 
resume and college transcripts 
to Mr. Jim Snyder. Suite 711. 
1000 Liberty Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15222. Telephone 
644 5896.
Sex, vacuum cleaners and more at Forbes Street Gallery
by Alex Czajkowski
Sex is frequently subliminated in art 
much as an artist’s personality is. Some­
times, however, the sex aspects of art be­
come very blatant, like at last week’s show 
at the Forbes Street Gallery.
Leah Barcanic, whose works dominated 
the show in number as well as in appeal, 
has a startling preoccupation with the vis­
ual and sexual possibilties of an upright 
vacuum cleaner. Regardless of the specific 
interpretation, be it overt sexuality or fe­
male liberation, Barcanic has something she 
paradoxically needs to hide and exhibit at 
the same time; hence her molded paper 
vacuum cleaner series called “Seduction, 
Suction, and other sweeping movements.” 
Her attempts to disguise the vacuum paper 
by molding, paint, and occasional disfigure­
ment all seem like efforts to cover-up 
either an unwanted liberty, a traumatic 
incident, or perhaps the symbol she finds 
most representative, and therefore oppres­
sive, of enslaved womenhood.
The sexual aspect of the vacuum is 
much more obvious in her paintings; 
“Portrait of Regina” (regina, as well as be­
ing a possible name for a vacuum cleaner, is
Latin for “queen”) is an anthropomorphi- 
sized vacuum, complete with all the stand­
ard female features. “Suck it all up, Then 
Throw the Bag Away” is an even more 
graphic piece of oppressive sexualities and 
roles. This piece shows that the frontal 
nudity of womanized vacuum cleaners can 
be just as glaring as any of Hustler’s pin-ups, 
but she doesn’t stop there. “Vacuum 1”, 
apparently the piece that helped set the 
stage for the later “Vacuum-fixations”, is 
is unlike her other work in that any sexual 
references are carefully subliminated in this 
surrealstic cleaner. The highlight was “For 
Mom, On Mother’s Day”, a litho of two 
frames, one with nude female torsos acting 
as inflating vacuum bags and the other 
with upright vacuums with phallic handles.
Quite unlike her above mentioned 
pieces, she also has an. excellent ink draw­
ing entitled “January”. This piece, while 
sexually suggestive to only the strongest 
of Freudians, is a cold, winter mountain- 
scape, and is incredibly well done.
Along somewhat similar lines as “Jan­
uary” were Nancy Richman’s drawings; 
two small figure studies of fruit that im­
mediately reminded one of the green pods 
that produced the aliens in the original
CWRU will jazz up CMU
Case Western Reserve University’s Jazz 
Ensemble I and Jazz Quintet will perform 
and administer jazz clinics at Carnegie- 
Mellon Universtiy, Friday, March 14 as 
part of their week-long tour of Ohio and 
Western Pennsylvania.
Directed by Michael Parkinson, the En­
semble, will perform among other works 
“Methylene Blues” by Ann Merrell, bari­
tone saxophonist with the Ensemble, and 
“Funeral for a Friendship” by Perry 
Beider, a CWRU graduate. The latter is 
included on the Ensemble’s new album
As a special tribute to Stan Kenton, 
the famous “Big Band” leader who died 
recently, the Ensemble will perform “A 
Little Minor Booze” by Willie Maiden, 
“My Old Flame’ by Marty Paicah and 
“Samba Siete” by Hank Levy.
Members of Carnegie-Mellon’s band and 
other invited participants will also be able 
to participate in a number of clinics deal­
ing with jazz education, improvisation 
and performance.
For further information, call Randy 
Purcell at Carnegie-Mellon.
“Invasion of the Body-Snatchers.” These 
sketches were fine hors d’oeuvres, but 
the main-course of her work was missing. 
Instead, there was her rendition of Bran- 
cusci’s “Sculpture for the Blind,” which 
she entitled “Remains”, hinting at the
source of this egg-shaped plaster piece. Un­
fortunately^ had too rough a texture to 
be truly sensuous, nor would it last long 
under many hands. One petite statue, 
entitled “Chic,” made up for “Remain’s” 
lackings. “Chic” was an unfinished, rough 
cast of a sitting female on a solid rectangu­
lar piece of steel. Only the girl’s right boot 
was made of polished brass, a statement on 
the jet-set’s beliefs, perhaps.
“Unfinished” sculpture was also an im­
portant aspect of Earl Saur’s abstract land­
scapes of the American Southwest. The 
rust colored steel were definite reminders 
of the red sands, and “Clouds Over Land­
scape” and “Stormfront on the Horizon” 
were very representative of Mid- and 
South-Western skies. Both of those pieces 
were, not unsurprisingly horizontally ori­
ented; however, Saur also had some verti­
cally oriented pieces. Outstanding of these 
was “Way Above the Clouds,” a steel struc­
ture that does seem to pierce the clouds, 
despite its small actual size.
The title of the show, “Cutting Below 
the Surface”, was ironically misleading. 
Two-thirds of the show dealt with strictly 
surface images, such as landscapes, figure- 
drawing, and vacuum cleaner molds, while 
only Barcanic’s painting really delved into 
the deeper regions art has been known to 
access. More of both Richman’s and Saur’s 
work would have made the show more at­
tractive, however, Barcanic’s sexed-up va­
cuum cleaners still would have stolen the 
show.
Campus Connoisseur
by Karen Stevens
Last week I experienced a unique, new 
restaurant located in the Freight House 
shops at Station Square — Houlihan’s. A 
varied decor, ranging from ABBA arid 
Sylvestor Stalone posters to antique Jack 
Daniel’s bottles and stained-glass partitions, 
lures you in. Once inside you are seated at 
one of several small tables surronded by 
comfortable couches and wicker chairs. 
Unfortunately the tables are much too 
close together; one shouldn’t have to worry 
about elbowing the person at the next 
table. Waitresses in long comfortable- 
looking skirts pleasantly inform you of the 
drink-of-the-day and take your cocktail 
order while you search the menu for one 
of your favorite dishes (which are all 
there).
Starting the meal off are ten possible 
appetizers including a large crock of onion
soup ($2.00), cold cream of zucchini 
soup ($1.75), quiche ($2.10), shrimp cock­
tail ($3.50), and a large portion of fried 
zucchini sticks ($1.85 and delicious).
Main courses include a large number 
of items beginning with eggs and ome­
lets. Eggs Benedict ($4.25), Joe’s Ome­
let (western — $3.95), and Huevas Cali­
fornia (mexican — $4.25) express the 
variety of this group. Burgers and sand­
wiches are also featured. I chose a Pocket 
Burger Bearnaise for $4.15 which is a 
thick, juicy hamburger pocketed in Pita 
Bread with grilled tomatoe and crisp 
bacon served with Bearnaise sauce, served 
with french fries. It was unusual and very 
good. Another unusual combination here 
is the hot chicken salad served over an 
English muffin topped with English cheese 
and almonds; served with fresh fruit gar­
nish ($3.75).
At Scott we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience m putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal achievement ot that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes from 
doing—putting your ideas to work, enjoying respon 
sibtlify. anci accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads join us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept the» chaiienges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on you« existing skills—to 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop-5 It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer m/f
Cont.ict your placement offce for information
SCOTT
For a more elegant meal, there are 
three varieties of crepes — chicken ($4.25), 
Neptune (scallops, shrimp, and crabmeat 
for $4.75), and Stroganoff (beef strips and 
sour cream for $4.75). Dinner specialties, 
which are served with French bread, in­
clude stuffed baked potatoes ($3.50), 
London broil ($5.95), baked stuffed 
shrimp ($7.45), chicken parmesan ($6.25), 
duck with orange sauce ($850), and more.
Salad lovers can be satisfied by the 
delicious spinach salad with bacon, mush­
rooms, and croutons — $3.95. Antipasto 
salad, Anchorage salad (shrimp, artichoke 
hearts, avocados, mushrooms, egg, toma­
toes, and olives), and Salad Nicoise (mari­
nated green beans and potatoes with 
chunks of tuna, fresh sprouts, eggs, to­
matoes, and Boston lettuce). All sound like 
excellent choices for $450, $5.25, and 
$4.75 respectively.
Dessert rounds out the meal with 
Haagen — Dazs ice cream ($1.75), Bananas 
Foster crepe ($1.85), apple strudel ($2.10); 
etc. Thus you can leave Houlihan’s with a 
satisfied feeling in your stomach and some 
money in your pocket. Try it!
When does training slop the doing start?

---------------------------------------------------

March 11,1980-TARTAN-Page 17
CL01980Season: A Chorus Line
The Civic Light Opera Association NO, NO N/.NETTE will be staged in 
announces its 1980 season to be performed Heinz Hall next from July 29 through 
in Heinz Hall from June 25 through August 
31. This season will be a great celebration 
of America’s leading composers of musical
Don Craig and Linda Warren are featured in the Pulitzer Prize — Tony Award winning play, 'The 
Shadow Box", playing through March 30 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse in Oakland.
Shadow Box at Playhouse
theatre: Richard Rodgers, Marvin Ham- 
lisch, Victor Herbert and Lerner and 
Loewe.
In addition to the regular six show sea­
son, The Civic Light Opera is presenting 
the international touring comapany of A 
CHORUS LINE to Pittsburgh. This cun- 
temporary musical opens June 25 and runs 
through July 13. This show is about the 
theatre itself. It is a shattering, unidealized 
portrait of the mainstay of the American 
musical, the chorus dancer. The behind- 
the-scenes musical reveals series of confes­
sions and frank stories about the life of 
a Broadway “gypsy”. This is the name 
given to dancers who spent their lives 
trouping from show to show, audition to 
audition. The Tony Award winning musical 
includes such show stoppers as “One” and 
“What I Did for Love”.
W.L. Thunhurst, Jr., Managing Director, 
says ‘The CLO likes to present original 
productions of musical theater works to 
local audiences. Unfortunately the rights to 
produce A CHORUS LINE locally will not 
be available for many years to come. So we 
decided to bring in the international 
touring company of this Broadway hit. 
Local audiences will now have the oppor­
tunity to enjoy the musical of the decade.”
Lerner and Loewe’s triumphant musical 
MY FAIR LADY opens Friday, July 18 
and runs through July 27. Adapted from 
Bernard Shaw’s “Pygmalion”, the musical 
reveals the story of an arrogant professor 
of speech who bets he can transform a 
cockney flower girl into a lady. The superb 
score includes “I Could Have Danced All 
Night” and “I’ve Grown Accustomed to 
Her Face”.Deathtrap
by Bob Henry
Ira Levin’s play Deathtrap was at Heinz 
Hall last week, and it’s too bad it didn’t 
stay longer. It was a well acted, well direct­
ed production and overall a joy to watch.
Deathtrap had been playing on Broad­
way for a little over two years, and the 
main reason for its success is that the show 
is so much fun. It’s a blend of ingredients 
from a chilling whodunit, a play-within- 
a-play-within-a-play to a witty comedy. 
To give away any details of the compli­
cated and ingenious plot, though, would be 
tantamount to spoiling the evening. Sim­
ply, if you ever get a chance, go see it.
The maj or fault of the play is that the 
first act is so brilliant that it may be the 
definitive “tough act to follow.” It gives 
us a riveting view of a tight, funny murder- 
mystery world with a plot that has enough 
twists and turns to annoy a snake. At inter­
mission I was wondering what possibly 
could be going to happen next, and unfor­
tunately what did happen was not as com­
pletely magical as what had preceded it. 
If a play has to have a fault, however, a 
first act that’s too good is probably the 
one to go for.
Perhaps the audience’s reaction at the 
end of act one best sums up the evening: 
A shriek, followed by fright, followed by 
confusion, followed by understanding, 
followed by laughter, followed by a smile, 
which is followed by the curtain. The 
house lights go up to reveal a chuckling 
audience all smiles and grins. And that s 
what Deathtrap is: Fright accompanied by 
bemusement.
The next attraction at Heinz Hall in the 
Broadway Theater Series is the musical 
Annie. It will run from June 10 to June 
21. Call the Heinz Hall box office al 
-81-8185 for details.
August 2. The 1971 Tony Award winning 
revival of this show was heralded as ‘The 
New 1925 Musical”. It is an endearing 
slice of innocence from the ^O’s loaded 
with dance and toe-tapping songs. Irving 
Caesar and Otto Harbach wrote the deligh- 
ful, carefree lyrics to ‘Tea for Two” and 
“I Want to Be Happy”.
The next production of the CLO Season 
will be PAINT YOUR WAGON. This 
bouncing Lerner and Loewe musical is 
loaded with gaiety and gusto about the 
gold-rush days and the opening of Ameri­
ca’s West. The refreshing musical score 
includes ‘They Call the Wind Maria” and 
“Wand’rin’ Star”. This show will be seen 
the week of August 5.
Sultry nights and serenades of Creole 
days in Old New Orleans is the setting 
for NAUGHTY MARIETTA during the 
week of August 12. Victor Herbert’s most 
enchanting music has made the show a 
perennial favorite among all audiences. 
His unforgettable melodies include “Ah, 
Sweet Mystery of Life,” “Tramp, Tramp, 
Tramp”, and “Italian Street Song”.
SWEET CHARITY, which opened on 
Broadway in 1966, opens here August 
19. The bitter-sweet book by Neil Simon 
teams with music by Cv Coleman and 
lyrics by Dorothy Fields.
The 1980 CLO Season closes the week 
of August 26 with the recent Broadway hit 
musical “I REMEMBER MAMA”. This was 
the last work of the great Richard Rodgers. 
The script follows the 1944 play by John 
Van Druten and stories by Katherine 
Forbes. The muscial relates the touching 
story of a Norwegian family living in San 
Francisco around 1910. This nostalgic 
trip back to more innocent times can be 
enjoyed by one’s entire family.
Pittsburgh may not be the theater town 
that New York or Washington, D.C. is, but 
good theater is certainly not lacking in 
the Steel City. One Pulitzer Prize winning 
play, Sam Shepard’s Buried Child is 
currently enjoying a successful run at Pitts­
burgh Public Theatre (see review - 3/4), 
and another Pulitzer Prize play, Michael 
Cristopher‘s Shadow Box, opens this 
Thursday Night at the Pittsburgh Play­
house on Craft Ave..
Shadow Box, which was also awarded 
the‘Tony” Award for outstanding drama, 
concerns the parallel, yet widely contrast­
ing efforts of three terminally ill patients 
to deal with their ensuing end. The setting 
is three hospice cottages on the grounds of 
a hospital where these patients are allowed 
to spend the last days of their lives with 
their families.
The play is a serious treatment of death, 
and poses some very provocative questions 
about death and dying, but the tone of the 
play is by no means heavy or morbid. 
There are instances of great humor and lev­
ity, and Brendan Gill of The New Yorker 
wrote that the audience leaves feeling that 
“life is a fine thing and well worth the liv- 
mg.The Pulitzer Prize is your guarantee oi a 
good script, and The Playhouse houses 
a competent, responsible company that 
should do service to this play. Be advent­
urous: make your way down to the Play­
house and see some good, intelligent 
theater.. Shadow Box will run at The 
Playhouse through March 30, Thursdays 
through Sundays. For ticket information, 
call 621-4445. (Bob Henry will review this 
production in next weeks* issue).

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION
WORK-STUDY STUDENTS 
OR 
POTENTIAL 
WORK-STUDY STUDENTS
FINANCIAL AID 
HAS RECEIVED ADDITIONAL 
WORK-STUDY FUNDING
IF INTERESTED IN INCREASING YOUR 
WORK-STUDY AWARD OR WORKING 
MORE HOURS CONTACT YOUR FINANCIAL 
AID OFFICER IMMEDIATELY!
X7.068 WARNER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Anyone who has ever dreamed of shak­
ing hands with a six-foot parrot, meeting 
the “Gunner” or perhaps going home wear­
ing Bum Phillips’ cowboy hat will have the 
opportunity to have their wish come true 
by attending a “City of Champions Sports 
Nite” in the Carnegie -Mellon University 
gymnasium, Sunday, April 20.
All proceeds will benefit the memorial 
scholarship fund established by members 
of the CMU football team for Jimmy Starr, 
a Tartan wide receiver who died last sum­
mer in an automobile accident. The fund, 
which was the idea of the players, has 
already raised over $5000. CMU Football 
coach Chuck Klausing said that the twenty 
seniors on this year’s team had donated 
over $2000 to get the drive staried. “Starr 
had been an inspiration to his teamates and 
his coaches”, Klausing said, and “the team 
wanted to do .something to remember 
him.” Klausing himself, has donated the 
$2500 Chevrolet award that he received for 
being selected 1979 Division III Coach of
n the best interests .. /
by Wes Seeley
Last week’s TARTAN reported a late 
breaking story on the actions of Athletic 
Director Jim Banner which caused CMU’s 
entry in the CMU Indoor Soccer Invita­
tional to forfeit its chance at the title. 
In the interest of fair reporting, Banner 
was approached for an explanation or 
clarification that he may have had in 
defense of his actions.
The only comment he had on the mat­
ter was, “I feel that my actions were in the 
best interests of the school, the PAC, the 
athletes and the student body.”
When asked to comment on any one 
of his actions in his meeting with Tourn­
ament Director and CMU Soccer Coach 
Gene Klein, which included a request to 
have the tourney run his way or have 
Klein resign, he declined repeating his 
one sentence statement.
the Year. The team’s goal is to raise 
$10,000 so the fund can become endowed.
Klausing got the idea for the “Sports 
Nite” from the very successful benefits 
that former Westinghouse High School 
football coach, Pete Demperio has held for 
Jeff Boynton,the Plum High School foot­
ball player who was paralyzed in a game in 
1978.
Bob Prince will emcee the affair which 
is scheduled to feature speeches and auto­
graph sessions with representatives of the 
Steelers, Pirates, Spirit, Penguins, Pitt 
Panthers and Dusquesne Dukes although 
the final list of speakers has not yet been 
announced. There will also be many mem­
bers of past CMU football teams and their 
coaches.
In addition, prizes will be raffled off 
including Tartan, Steeler and Panther 
footballs; the soccer ball used during the 
Spirit’s record eighth consecutive victory; 
the hockey stick used by Mark Johnson as 
a member of the US Olympic hockey team;
Willie .Stargell’s bat and Pirate baseballs; 
and Bum Phillips’ ten-gallon hat.
The parents of the players have gotten 
several Pittsburgh merchants to donate 
some additional prizes including a trip for 
two to Las Vegas and four dinners at 
Christopher’s.
The Sports Nite begins at 7 PM and is 
open to the public. The five dollar per 
person admission price includes refresh­
ments.
Tickets are available from members of 
the CMU football team, at participating 
Stop and Go stores and from the CMU 
football office. A limited number of tickets 
will also be available at the door.
Coach Klausing stressed the need for 
student support if the Sports Nite is to 
be successful. He sees it, not only as a 
worthwhile cause, but also as a very enjoy­
able way to finish Spring Carnival.
Anyone wanting more information can 
call Coach Klausing in the Athletic Depart­
ment at 578-2216.
Basketball finals to highlight IM Night program
Next week:
SPRINGSPORTS 
PREVIEW
Action from IM nights past.
Intramural Night 1980 will be held this 
Friday night beginning at 7 PM in the 
Skibo Gym. Intramural Director, Earl J. 
Birdy, has arranged for an exciting night 
that will be highlighted by the N.ajor and 
Intermediate League basketball finals. The
5 Tartans to go
Junior Jim Matysek will lead a five-man 
Tartan, contingent to the NCAA Division 
III Swimming and Diving Championships 
to be held at Washington and Jefferson on 
March 20 -22.
Matysek, who was an All-American last 
year in the 100-yard and 200-yard breast­
stroke, qualified again in those two events 
as well as in the 500 yard freestyle. His 
time of 2:16.45 in the 200-yard breast­
stroke gave him the PAC title in that 
event.
He will also swim the breaststroke leg of 
the medly relay in the Nationals. The 
medly relay team has a time of 3:42.2 at 
the PAC meet. Freshman Randy Condon, 
who missed qualifying for Nationals in the 
200 yd. backstroke by a mere two one- 
hundreths of a second, will swim the first 
leg of the relay. Freshman Mike 
Kochanowski will swim the butterfly leg 
and Sophmore Todd Reinke will swim the
rest of the program will consist of the 
awards ceremonies for all team champions 
and individual Most Valuable Players in 
the fall and winter sports.
Turn to page 22 for the complete IM 
report.
to NCAA meet
freestyle. The fifth qualifier from Coach 
Donna Pecman’s squad is Senior Bob Frye, 
who will compete in the one-meter dive. 
Frye, who, like Matysek, competed in the 
Nationals last year, qualified in the CMU- 
Gettysburg meet on February 2.
Coach Pecman is very optimistic about 
her team’s chances in Washington saying 
that Matysek “has a good chance to be an 
All-American in all four of his events, (A 
swimmer must finish among the top 
twelve in his event to be an All-American.) 
but has the best chance in the individual 
events. The . lay team is the youngest I’ve 
ever taken to Nationals, but still has a 
chance.” Of Bob Frye, Coach Pecman says 
that “both his and my goal is for him to 
improve on his 32nd place finish from last 
year but if Bob has a good day, he’ll make 
All-American.”
The CMU swim team finish fifth in the 
PAC Championships behind champion 
Allegheny.
sports
Sports Nite to be held for the Jimmy Starr Fund

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-March 11,1980
by Skip Thrope, Jr.
The CMU Women’s Basketball team 
finished its 1979-80 campaign with a 
6242 loss at the hands of Carlow College 
last Monday night. So ended a disappoint­
ing season for the Tartan women who 
closed the year with a record of 5 wins and 
14 defeats, fifth place in the Pennwood 
West Conference. In the game, the injury- 
riddled Tartans never got their offense 
going, scoring only 17 points in the first 
half.
The team’s final record reflects the dif­
ficulty that Coach Diane Shenot had in 
keeping a healthy team on the floor. 
Her troubles started early in the season 
when, Freshmen Debbie Durr and Val 
Brandt still recovering from various 
illnesses and nagging injuries, Senior 
point guard Terry Preskar suffered a knee 
injurty and was lost for the year. This 
forced a radical change in the starting 
line-up that the team could not adjust 
to until after they had lost their first 
seven games.
After adjusting, however, things looked 
much better as the outside shooting of 
Kassie Segmiller and the strong inside 
play of Durr led the Plaid to a modest 
•winning streak in late January. February 
brought more injuries, however, and the 
Tartans could only manage two wins 
down the strectch, finishing at 5-14.
Prospects for the future are much bright 
er than the memories of the recent past 
though, with only four graduating seniors 
on the squad. They are Preskar, guard 
Gale Gammerdinger (who gave an inspir­
ing effort against Carlow, playing with a 
severe muscle pull) and reserves Denise 
Ryan and Dawn Drake.
The returnees form a very 
nucleus for next season. Segmiller, who 
has scored over 800 points in just two 
seasons will be back from the starting line­
up along with center and leading rebounder 
Debbie Durr and guard Lorraine Stypula. 
Val Brandt and Kathy Relihan round out 
the list of returnees.
Coach Shenot feels that, with 
players returning, her squad, which was 
“snake bit” this year, can do some biting 
of its own next year.
SoftbalI clinic scheduled
The Intramural softball rules clinic 
will be held Wednesday March 19 at 4:30 
PM. All Managers of all teams (Major, 
Intermediate, Minor, Women ) are re­
quested to attend. Of particular interest 
will be the review of the pitching rules 
and the policy regarding game cancellations 
because of weather conditions. Check the 
IM office for the location of this clinic.
For those who have not yet turned in 
rosters but wish to, they will be accepted 
until 4:30 Thursday, March 13. After that, 
it will be too late because the schedule
will be drawn up. Play will begin imme­
diately after Spring Break on March 31.
The overall softball commissioner is 
Mike Pochan (683-0372); Majors-Mike 
Grant; Intermediate-Dave Hofmeister; 
Minors-Wes Seeley; Womens- Mariano 
DeFilippo.
A Philip Pelusi haircut for $5.00!! 
Register for haircutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop at our salon 
in Squirrel Hill or the Bank Center.
ARABESQUE 
Masters of Rock Fantasy
in concert
Chatham Chapel 
March 14,9:30pm
$2.50 in advance 
$3.00 at the door
Tickets available at the Skibo Info Desk 
Sponsored by Rea Coffeehouse 
For details call 441 -8200, ext. 239
Val Brandt (no.40) presses against a Washington and Jefferson attacker as Debbie Durr looks on. 
Both Tartans look to be large parts of the team's future plans.
LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS
STUDY THE SOCIAL SCIENCES IN LONDON
The London School of Economics and Political Science offers junior year study, 
postgraduate diplomas, one-year Master's degrees and research opportunities 
in the heart of London in a wide range of social sciences. Subjects include 
Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, 
Econometrics, Economics. Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial 
Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, 
Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Social Administration, Social Work, 
Sociology. Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences.
Fees £2000 (approx. $4500) a year Limited financial assistance available.
Application blanks from:
Pro-Director, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England.
Please state whether junior year or postgraduate.
Hockey Club riding a six game winning streak
Tartan defenders protect the Plaid net against an enemy attack.
by Piz Odorf
The spirit of the USA Hockey Club has 
spread far and wide, and it seems as though 
the CMU Tartans have received at least a 
taste of that spirit. In an amazing come­
back from a one and eight season start, the 
Tartans have won seven of their last eight 
games with highlights focusing on their pre­
sent six game winning streak. After their 
victory over St. Vincent College just two 
weeks ago, they stunned Bethany 8 to 3 
and began to prepare for their toughest
road trip: third place Cuyahoga Communi­
ty College and second place Cleveland 
State, a week ago from this past Friday and 
Saturday.
All went well for the Tartans Friday as 
Joe Pajer ignited for three goals with 
three assists from Captain Joe O’Neill 
to defeat Cuyahoga by a score of 3 to 2. 
The Tartans had suddenly become a spirit­
ed club, and thoughts of a Cleveland sweep 
were no longer out of the question.
The next day, the Tartans faced off
Cleveland State and, after Geve- 
scored the first goal, Matt Madda- 
lene quickly evened the score only minutes 
later. Starting left wing, Joe Chaves added 
first of two goals to take the lead 2 tol. 
Early in the second period, Cleveland 
again to even the game at 2 to 2. 
period saw some of the hardest hitting 
the season but resulted in no goals 
Joe O’Neill scored his first 
season with only eight seconds 
in the period. The third period 
belonged to the Tartans starting line with 
Joe Chaves scoring his second g9al assisted 
Joe Pajer. Right wing John Paxton 
then scored with assists by Chaves and 
Pajer. Geveland added one more but the 
CMU Tartans were victorious, 5 to 3.
The momentum was not to stop in 
Geveland. At home, last Tuesday night, 
the Tartans tallied their fifth victory in a 
row against Slippery Rock State College. 
The Rock scored the first goal but CMU 
came right back as Mike Panno scored 
assisted by Mark Licata. The Rockets then 
scored again to go ahead 2 to 1. CMU 
quickly retaliated as Joe Chaves scored his 
first of three goals assisted by Pajer to even 
the score, 2 to 2. Slippery Rock scored 
their last goal to go up 3 to2. Joe Chaves 
then tied the game with an unassisted goal 
in the third period. The Tartans took the 
lead when Chaves scored his third goal 
assisted by Paxton and Pajer. Matt Madda- 
lene then scored a fifth goal late in the 
third period to cap the game at 5 to 3.
The Tartans were on the road again 
Thursday night as they clashed with West 
Virginia University in Morgantown. WVU 
took the lead early in the game as they 
scored midway into the first period. The 
Tartans quickly came back with Joe 
O’Neill scoring and took the lead when Joe 
Pajer scored assisted by Paxton and Chaves, 
WVU tied the score at two at the close of 
the second period. The Tartans were not 
to be beaten however and came out fly. 
ing in the third period with Eddie McKen­
na scoring an unassisted goal to take the 
lead. After WVU came right back though 
and tied the score, 3 to 3, Matt Maddalene 
picked up a rebounding shot and scored 
his third goal in 3 games to beat WVU,
4 to 3.
CMU defensemen Jeff Reh, Jeff Gut­
man, Arch Werner and Joe O’Neill have 
combined to play a solid defense during 
the entire winning streak. But the real de­
fensive star has been goaltender, Dave 
“Cezanne” Tozer. Dave stopped an amaz­
ing 118 shots in four games letting only 11 
shots get by for an outstanding average 
of 2.75 goals per game.
All in all, the CMU Hockey Gub has be­
come a contender in two busy weeks. 
A once un thought word, “Playoffs,” 
has become a common phrase on the 
bench. CMU could become host to a 
championship hockey team in the near 
future. The team looks forward to student 
support in the upcoming games and sea­
son’s of the future.
Tartan women fall to Carlow to conclude rocky season

---------------------------------------------------

Electrical Engineering 
and Computer Science Majors
March 11,1980-TARTAN-Page 21
I 
!
I
!
I
I
I
I
?
I
I
SALAD !COMPANY |
2nd Anniversary jCelebration! j
It took a lot of head work — over 60,000 heads of lettuce for over *
10,000 salads — to reach our second anniversary. You answered our ¦ 
question: was there enough salad lovers in Pittsburgh to support a ¦ 
restaurant that specializes in unique, fresh salads. Thank you.
Month-long specials to mark |our 2nd Great Year! j
THROUGH MARCH 8th
50C Glass of Iced Tea or Lemonade.................. ............................only 25C
WEEK OF MARCH 10th ?
ANNIVERSARY WEEK! SALAD PRICES REDUCEDl C
All $2.99 Salads ................................................................................only $2.29
All $3.49 Salads ................................................................................only $2.99 d
This week only through March 1 5 A
WEEK OF MARCH 17th ?
65C Yogurt Cones...................................................................................only 35< C
MARCH 24 THROUGH MARCH 31 f
75C Bowl of fresh, hot Soup ...............................................................only 50C A
$1.45 Bowl of fresh, hot Soup......................... ............................only 99< -
i~f |—>—/ WVt)—-l r
Completely Vegetarian Condiment Bar
*Lettuce ServeYbu j
235 Atwood Street, Oakland (near Oakland Post Office)
Open Monday-Saturday from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. k
Take Outs, Call: 621-0165 |
San Francisco Bay Area Computer and Computerized 
Telephone Equipment Manufacturer seeks talented 
individuals interested in:'
• Telephony
• Microprocessor Applications
• Digital and Analog Design
• CPU and Memory Design
• Real Time Systems Software
• Data Communications Software
• System Programming Languages
• Hardware/Software Interfacing
• Test Engineering
• Production Engineering
• Field Engineering
ROLM Corporation, located in Santa Clara.
California, has grown 50 - 100% each year and 
currently has 2600 employees. ROLM's Tele­
communications Division is the leading indepen 
dent supplier of computerized PBX's (CBX) and 
microprocessor controlled telephones ROLM s 
Mil Spec Computer Division offers a complete 
line of rugged general purpose minicomputers
Included in ROLM's out-standing benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter).
Company paid tuition and time off for Graduate 
Study at Stanford, and flexible working hours.
^On Campus Interviews^1
Friday, March 14, 1980
Meet with Working Hardware and Software Engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center. See ourCompany^^Litefature^m^he^Placement^Center^^^^^^^^^^^^
If unableto attend an interview. Gibson Anderson
send resume to: Engineering Group Manager
ROLM Corporation 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive 
Santa Clara. CA 95050
We ate an equal oppor tumtyfaMirmative action employer
-------------------------->
CORPORATION 
_________________>

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—TARTAN—March 11,1980
Intramural basketball playoffs are underway
by Leslie Weiser
Everyone get ready because IM night is 
here! It’s this Friday, March 14, starting at 
7:00. Admission is free. At 7:00 PM, the 
intermediate basketball final will be played. 
At 8:00 PM, awards for every team who 
has won an intramural championship so 
far this year will be presented by intra­
mural board president Bob Dudas. At 8:30 
PM the major league basketball final will 
be played. If you’ve won; if you know 
someone who has won or even if you have 
a favorite intramural basketball team come 
to intramural night.
Other notes of importance for intra­
mural basketball teams include: check the 
IM bulletin board for a schedule of make 
up games and playoff games. Please check 
with the commissioner of your league for 
playoffs. The commissioners are: Major— 
Ralph David or Ken Gustafson phone 
578-4271, Intermediate—Mark Johnston, 
phone 5784626, Minor-Wes Seeley, phone 
578-4004, and Women’s League—Mariano 
DeFilippo, phone 578-4002.
This is the last call for Bridge teams. 
Lets get bridge underway! A commissioner 
is still needed; anyone interested should 
contact Mr. Birdy or Bob Dudas.
Handball games will start this week. 
The commissioner is Mr. Birdy, who can 
be reached at extension 2214.
Please turn in all Backgammon scores to 
Cathy Jensen, phone 687-4684.
Water Basketball games will start this 
week. The commissioner is Gregg Mer- 
haneth, phone 681-7162. Please call Gregg 
for schedules.
Please get all the Table Tennis games 
played and turn in the scores. The com­
missioner is Jim Satrape, phone 578-4327.
Co-Rec Badmitton schedules are up on 
the IM bulletin board. Games will be 
played Tuesdays and Thursdays from
4:40PM to 6:00 PM. The commissioner is 
John Brandt, phone 578-5901.
This is the last call for sports coming 
up with entries due Thursday, March 13. 
They are Individual Call Pool, commissioner 
Geoffrey Luce, phone 683-1699, Co-Rec 
Table Tennis, commissioner Jim Satrape, 
phone 578-4327, Foul Shooting, com­
missioner A1 Fountain, phone 687-0964 
Team Badminton, commissioner John 
Brandt, phone 578-5901 and Fencing, 
commissioner. Miss Fisk, phone 578-2220. 
IM Swim Meet entries are also due March 
13. The meet will be held on Wednesday, 
March 19th at 4:30 in the pool. Practice 
sessions will be held during recreational 
swim hours, 6:30 PM—8:30 PM, Monday 
through Friday. A meet director is still 
needed. The order of events is 200 yd. 
Medley Relay, 50 yd. Freestyle, 100 yd. 
individual medley, 50 yd. butterfly, 100 
yd. freestyle, 50 yd. backstroke, 50 yd. 
breaststroke, and 200 yd. freestyle. The 
meet is open to individuals or teams, both 
men and women. A contestant may par­
ticipate in 2 relays plus one individual 
event or 2 individual events plus one relay 
for a total of three events.
It isn’t too late to sign up your team 
for IM Softball. Entries are due Thursday,
March 13th. Games will start as soon as 
the weather cooperates.
The intramural wrestling match was 
held Saturday, March 8. The winners 
were: Gib Miller of PIKA in the 135 lb 
class, Jim Hackett of BETA in the 141 
lb. class, Bill Gens of PIKA in the 148 lb. 
class, Tom Quick of Kappa Sigma in the 
158 lb. class, Kevin Riggs of Kappa Sig­
ma in the 170 lb. class, Tom Palmermo 
of ATO in the 190 lb. class, Rick Baeder 
of BETA in the 205 lb. class, and Dave 
Measick of BETA in the heavyweight 
class. In the team standings PIKA was
first, BETA was second, Kappa Sigma 
was third, and ATO was fourth.
MINORS BASKETBALL STANDINGSWOMENS BASKETBALL STANDINGS
COWENSWL
Zoo-B07
ZBT-B14
Schlag-A313
Absolute Idealists60
Greasy George’s Gang33
OFF04
Untouchables5, 2
Donner Dukes34
Stuff60
Piralma42
JABBARWL
PKT-B24
Rostramer23
Eagles25
Pap’s Boys42
Blue Flyers14
Skid Row70
Collective Wastes15
Mudge House Rockers35
Squid23
Microdots81
WL
Allies¦> 12
Macks14
Cheerleaders Plus40
Hot Chocolate30
SWE03
Jajajujube-Dily22
WALTONWL
KS-B42
TX52
Off with their hands33
Again
Social Decay51
Pittsburgh Condors34
WC Woofers60
SMC24
IBM16
Animals07
An added challenge... two counties, one campaign
GIVE UNITED WAY
ACTUARIAL 
SCIENCE FORUM
MARCH 19, 1980 
7:00 P.M. 
ROOM 13 — SKIBO
Learn about the Actuarial Science program at 
Carnegie-Mellon University and your career opportunities 
as an actuary. Two Actuaries will speak about their 
profession and will answer your questions concerning an 
actuarial career.
Materials about the program at CMU will be available 
at the meeting.
For additional information about the Forum call the 
Actuarial Science coordinator at 578-2151.
Refreshments will be served.
NEED A RIDE 
TO THE AIRPORT?
RIDE THE 
A PHI O SHUTTLEBUS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 21
LEAVING FROM
MOREWOOD
GARDENS
11:45 am 
3:15 pm 
4:45 pm
DONNER
HALL
12:00 Noon 
2:30 p.m. 
5:00 p.m.
PRICE $2.50
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK!

---------------------------------------------------

coming events
artsa.b.
Carnegie Institute Schedule.
Through March 21
Russian Image, Ltd presents 
"Wood and Water"
For more information, call (412) 261-5474.
Through May11
William Blayney and 
Painting Gallery D
Alex Fletchee,
Through May 18
Robert Qualters, Paintings 
Gallery
Entrance
Through June 1
Miniatures in the Collection of the Museum 
of Art - Treasure Room
Through June 1
Prints by James McNeill Whistler - Gallery 
10
films
Museum of Art; Carnegie Institute Film 
Section, Lecture Hall, 7:30 PM, $1.50 
Admission.
March 16
Potemkin (1925) by Sergei Eisenstein, 
USSR.
Pittsburgh Playhouse film repertory
First showing nightly at 7:30 PM, second 
as indicated. Admission $2.50.
March 12 at 9:30
Marty (1955)
March 13 at 9:30
The Big Sleep (1946)
March 14 at 9:30,11:30
Picnic at Hanging Rock
March 15 at 9:30,11:30
Life of Brian
March 16 at 10:00
Olives
All showings in DH 2210 unless otherwise 
noted at 6, 8, 10, and 12. Admission is 
$1.00 with CMU ID /$1.25 without.
March 14
Muppet Movie
March 15 at 9:30
Coffeehouse presents: The Bob
Grap in the Wherrett Room.
March 17 at 9:30
Spellbound (1945) Alfred Hitchcock
March 18 at 9:30
Twentieth Century (1934)
March 19 at 9:30
One-Two; Three
Ortiz
March 14 at 8:00 PM
Clancy Brothers at Stanley Theatre
March 16 at 8:00 PM
Pittsburgh jazz pianist Walt Harper at 
Jewish Community Center
March 19 at 8:00 PM
Jean-Pierre Rampai at Jewish Community 
Center. ,'Y Music Series". For more infor­
mation call 521-0810.
March 19 at 8:00PM
Edmund J. McKenna, pianist. Alumni 
Concert Hall in CFA.
theater
March 13 & 14 at 8:30PM
University of Pittsburgh presents Secret 
of Susanna" by Wolf Ferrari & Hand of 
Bridge by Samuel Barber. For more infor­
mation call 624-6587.
March 18-21 at 8:00PM
Duquesne University presents William 
Shakespeare's "A Mid-summer Night's 
Dream". For more information call 
434-6433.
March 14 & 15 at 7:30 PM
Chatam Black Week production
Through March 15 at 8:00PM
The Columbia Encyclopedia Presents Mary 
Stuart, Queen of Scotland. For reservations 
call 683-3993.special
Mensa sponsors annual Scholarship Program
For more information call (212)376-1925 
immediately
March 12 3:30-5:30
University of Pittsburgh Asian Studies 
Program sponsors: Language Reform and 
Language Teaching During and After the 
Cultural Revolution"
March 15 at 6:30
The International Student Organization of 
CMU sponsoring speaker
March 15 at 6:30,-
The International Student Organization of 
CMU sponsoring speaker Mr. El-Kouedi
March 15 at 6:30
The International Student Organization of
CMU sponsoring speaker Mr. El-Kouedi 
from the Egyptian embassy in Washington,
DC. For ticket information call x3042.
March13 at 3:30PM
Carnegie-Mellon University Colloquium Se­
ries in Baker Hall-340A Dr. Amos Tversky, 
Department of Psychology, Stanford Uni­
versity.
March 15 at 3:30PM
Series on Environment of Business at GSIA 
Auditorium. Honorable Helen O'Bannon, 
Secretaty, Department of Public Welfare.
March 18 at 3:30PM
Edmund Fawcett correspondent for the 
Economist, London, speaking on "European 
Perceptions of American Policy Toward 
the New Europe" in Hunt Library.
Poetry Contest
$1000 Grand prize. Rules and official en­
try forms available from: World of Poetry, 
2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. N, Sacremento, 
CA 95817.
March 19 at 8:30 PM
Optical Society of America sponsores a 
lecture on "Underwater Photography" 
by Dr. Vern Muffaletto 
in the Multi-purpose room of Hunt Li­
brary. Call x2467 for more information.
sports
March 12
Hockey: Penguins vs. Los Angeles, 7:30 
PM at the Civic Arena.
March 14
Pro Wrestling: Matches TBA, 8:30 PM at 
the Civic Arena.
March 15
Hockey: Penguins vs. Minnesota, 8:00 PM 
at the Civic Arena.
March 18 through 23 
Ice Follies at Civic Arena 
March 18, 19, 20 at 7:30PM 
March 21 at 8:00PM
March 22 at 11:00AM, 3:00PM 8t 8:00PM 
March 23 at 1:30PM & 5:30PM
Tickets $5.50, $6.50, $7.50
March 26 at 7:30PM
Musical 22 top (Prices to be announced)
March 27 at 7:00PM
Silver Gloves Boxing Tournament
Tickets $4.00, $6.00, $8.00
March 28 at 6:45PM
Dapper Dan Round-ball Classic
Tickets $3.25, $4.25, $6.25, $8.25
March 29 at 8:00PM-9:00PM
WPKA Dog Show
$3.00 Adults, $1.00 Children
March 30 at 2:30PM
Hockey
Penguins vs. Washington
March 31 at 7:00PM
Silver Gloves Boxing Tournament
wrct
March 12,11:00 PM
on "What's Your Beef?"
Live coverage of a campus-wide power- 
flush (many toilets going off simultan- 
ously).
The Gould Engineer Development Program— 
the difference between a job and a true career.
Let’s talk about your career in Sales, Product 
Development or Operations at Gould.
Gould has grown to over $2 billion in sales placing it 152nd 
on the Fortune list of multinational corporations. This suc­
cess has been largely due to Gould’s ability to draw on its 
technical talent to design new products and then market 
them through its world-wide distribution system.
To support this growth, Gould has instituted the Engineer 
Development Program in which candidates enter one of 
three career tracks with “hands-on” assignments at a Gould 
facility. Concurrently, the candidate will participate in a 
formal training program as well as be individually coun­
seled as to the career path designed specifically for each 
engineer's talent and ambitions.
We wish to talk with electrical, industrial and mechanical 
engineering graduates ready to begin a true career in the 
development, production and sale of electrical products 
ranging from miniature components to complete systems.
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIH
Sign up for an interview.
We will be on campus:
Monday, April 7 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Career Services & Placement 
5000 Forbes Avenue WH-19 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Contact us directly:
Robert Armstrong/Personnel Representative 
Gould Inc., Electrical Products Group
60 Gould Center, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008
Call (collect): (312)981-5192
¦> GOULD
An Electrical/Electronics Company

---------------------------------------------------

BUDDY, BUDDIES
classified
JOB HUNTING? Get more interviews
with a professionally prepared, indivi­
dually designed resume from employ­
ment experts. Complete writing, editing, 
typing and printing services. Special 
student discount rates! Call today! 
MANGO - ANDREWS * RESUME 
SERVICE -391-3232.
Girls.. Are you looking for a summer coun­
selor position? Applicants are now being 
considered for the 1980 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the following: 
Arts&Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist 
singing. Archery, Tennis Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim­
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General Ath­
letics.
Counselor Unit Leaders must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening pro­
grams, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15217, or phone. 412-521-2376. 
Bloomfield: Furnished 1 and 2 bedroom 
apts. $200-$250 plus utilities. Close to 
everything. Parking. 3-5 PM, 462-7319; 
after 5 PM, 362-8887.
Attention: Pre-medical student at Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh seeks young lady for 
friendship, togetherness, and marriage. 
Send replies to: Box 71043, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
Shadyside: Lux 1 Bd. Apt., dw, A/C,
w-w intercom, 3rd,ret. required. $250 plus 
electric, 3-5 PM, 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
Jewish Living Experience, kosher food, nice
rooms, joyful shabbos. Call 422-4619 (No 
Sat. calls)
Rides to the airport for Spring Break
available. Student is willing to take 
f>eople to the airport; leaving Skibo at: 
3:00 March 18 
3:30 March 19 
3:00 March 20
4 .00 March 21
Cost $2.00; CALL 788-4003 for details. 
Petitioners needed to collect signatures for
political party. $30-$50 per day possible. 
Must be registered voters. Call Michael 
Markowitz at 521-0506 Sun-Thurs evenings 
JOB OPENING-Appl¡cations for the 1980-
1981 position of Manager of Entropy are 
now available in the store. Pick one up 
NOW!
LACROSSE PLAYER WANTED.Pitts-
burgh Club now playing. Call Mark
Howard at 683-4295 or John Weaver at
831-5873 for information.
HOT CHOCOLATE challenges any group
of women (including members of the
Women's BB team) to a scrimmage game.
x4812.
TYPING. Experienced. My home. Selectric
II. 521-7888.
To the Brothers of Theta Xi:
"Army of the Future", was no bomb! 
Thanks for inviting us.
Love, the TriDelts 
Bass Player with P.A. into new wave or
power pop rock, call Bernie 834-1055.
Used comb for sale, best offer - Bruno x4105
Free Scotch, Vodka, Southern Comfort for
those needing assistance fulfilling PURIM 
101 requirements. Call Jews for Judaism 
422-4619 (No Sat. Calls).
Interested in living at Tech House next 
year? We've got lots to offer... Call 621- 
2911 for information.
For Sale or Rent . 4 Textronics oscillo­
scopes. 2 Hewlett Packard oscilloscopes. 
Prices (for sale) range from $150 to $250. 
All guaranteed working. x4854.
Buspeople, bathroom attendants wanted 
for restaurant/disco. Cali 243-2836.
Silver coins wanted. Highest prices. After 
5 PM. 521-2749.
announcements
clubs
Senate meeting times — General meets on
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com­
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday,in Rm 12.
AIESEC — CMU presents the award win­
ning film "Some Call it Greed," an exciting 
eye-opening 52 minute documentation on 
the development of America's power and 
wealth in the 20th century. The film, 
produced by Forbes magazine, and nar­
rated by Orson Welles and Robert McNeil, 
will be shown at 5:30 in the Wherrett 
Room Wednesday, March 12.
On Wednesday, the 12th of March 1980, 
Liberal's Club President Barton Levenson 
will give a talk entitled "Kennedy and Free 
Enterprise." There will be a talk-back and 
discussion following the speech, which will 
start at 7:30 PM, in Room 11 of Skibo. 
COCO (Commuter & Off-Campus Organ­
ization) has established a set meeting time 
and place: Wednesdays at 11:30 AM, Skibo 
11. Work is beginning on a lounge and 
office space—All are invited to come and 
help. Bring your lunch and come to 
tomorrow's meeting; we'd be glad to have 
you.
Rent-a-Tech, Carngegie-MelIon's part time
job bank, has many jobs available to 
students. We offer jobs in such diverse 
areas as: Computer Programming, Art, 
Babysitting, Painting... If you need a job, 
give us a call at x3535 or stop by our 
office in Skibo 58.official
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1 30 to 3:30 PM.
The main lost and found department for
the University is located at Security,155 
Baker Hall. Items will be released to 
persons able to furnish an adequate de­
scription, as well as the approximate time 
lost.general
International students are invited to
apply for Summer Crossroads 1980, a 
week-long program to be held in Colorado 
Springs, Colorado. June 1-6 and in Los 
Angeles. California, June 7-14. The pro­
grams are being sponsored by community 
residents, the Colorado College, the Inter­
national Student Center at UCLA, the 
University of Southern California and the 
Institute of International Education.
To be eligible for Crossroads students 
must be at the graduate level and planning 
to return home no later than May 1981.
See Foreign Student Advisor (Warner 
Hall 611) for application forms. 
International Publications is sponsoring a 
National College Poetry Contest— Spring 
Concours 1980. The contest is open to all 
college students who wish to have their 
poetry anthologized.
For more information contact the 
English Department or write to: Inter­
national Publications, P.O. Box 44927, 
Los Angeles, CA 90044.
Gain valuable political exper' mce. Work 
for the successful George Bu„.i for Presi­
dent campaign. Write to Scott Bok, George 
Bush for President, Suite 1635, 1617 J.F.K. 
Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA if you're 
interested.
Chautauqua Institution will offer an Aug.
11—15 course designed to help people re­
cognize trade-offs and face issues of marr­
iage, dual careers, and conflicts between 
home and business.
The course, "Trade-offs: Executive,
Family and Organizational Life," is a modi­
fication of a Harvard Business School semi­
nar taught by Dr. Barrie S. Greiff. Preregis-. 
tration will be needed by June 10. For fur­
ther information, contact the School's 
Office, Box 28. Chautauqua, NY 14722. 
American Youth Hostels is sponsoring a 
slide presentation of hiking in New England, 
West Virginia, and Pensylvania on Thurs­
day, March 13 at 8:45 PM in their Council 
Headquarters, 6300 Fifth Ave.
CMU-PITT UNDERGRADUATE PRO- 
gram will continue Thursday evening, 
March 13 at The Oratory (4040 Bigelow 
Blvd.) with Mass at 6:30 PM followed by 
free buffet and discussron at 8:00 PM. 
This week's topic: Sexual and Social 
Situational Ethies. Open to all— spon­
sored by CMU's Roman Catholic Chap­
laincy. For more information call 
681-3181.The CMU Chapter of the Institute of Elec­
trical and Electronics Engineers is presenting 
a lecture on opportunities and activities at 
the Texas Instruments Computer Sciences 
Laboratory. The lecture will be held on 
Thursday, March 13 at 7:00 PM in Porter 
Hall 100. Dr. Alastair D. Mcavlay, known 
for his research in Digital Seismic Processing 
at T.l. will be conducting the discussion 
which will include speech, artificial intel­
ligence and image processing activities. 
Anyone interested is urged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served.
Shabbat Services and dinner begin at 5:30 
on March 14 at B'nai B'rith Hillel. 315 S. 
Bellefeild. This week is a $2.50 special and 
is a Mesorah Shabbat featuring an ortho­
dox service. Reservations should be made 
in advance by calling 621-8875.
A Roller Skating party sponsored by Hillel 
will take place on Saturday night March 15 
at Monroe Bowl Roller Rink. Meet at 315 
S. Bellefield at 9 PM for a ride or meet us 
at the rink.
“Impossible on Saturday" a comedy film
will be shown at 8 PM on Sunday March 1b 
in the Rogal Room of the JCC, 315 S. 
Bellefield. The story is about an old man 
who leaves a tape recorded will apportion­
ing his sizeable estate among his five sons. 
But there are conditions. They must ass­
emble in Israel, get married and agree to 
live there. Robert Hirsch, a star perfor­
mer of the Comedie Française, plays the 
old man, each of the sons, and a German 
daughter masquerading as another son. 
Admission is $2.00, Students, $1.00. 
Richared Rose, author of The Albigen Pa­
pers and Psychology of the Observer, will 
present a lecture/discussion on the. topic 
"AreYour Values Working?" on Thursday, 
March 13 at 7:30 PM in the Hunt Library. 
Mr. Rose will discuss methods of examining 
one's own life values with a system of 
direct-mind diagnoses involving proven 
methods of change. Ho is an authority on 
intuitional psychology, mental states, and 
common sense tactics to promote clarity of 
mind. The event is free of charge to the 
public.
The CMU Hillel Club will meet at 6:30 PM
on Sunday, March 16 at Hillel House, 131 
Margaret Morrison.
Engineering Students: Your're invited to
compete in a national ENERGY EFFI­
CIENCY COMPETITION. Urban Scientific 
and Educational Research is accepting 
applications until March 30, 1980. If you 
think you can design a water heater, 
refrigerator-freezer, or air-conditioner that 
saves energy, you could win national 
awards. For more information contact 
USER at P.O. Box 19112/ 20th Street 
Station/Washington, D.C. 20036.scholarships
Interdisciplinary Seminar in German Studies
at the University of California at Berkeley, 
June 23-August 1, 1980. The seminar will 
explore current issues and problems of 
post-war Germany in the fields of his­
tory, politics, economics, sciences, educa­
tion and literature. Application deadline is 
April 1.1980.
Not a genius? Not a pauper? Don't despair,
you can still win a scholarship. The Kent 
D. Shaffer Scholarship is not based on 
academic standing or financial need. This 
scholarship is awarded anually to the 
applicants who best exemplify the ideas of 
leadership, friendship, and service. Apply­
ing for this scholarship is very simple. Just 
fill out an ¦ application available at the 
Skibo information desk before March 12. 
This scholarship is open to any undergrad 
currently attending C-MU. It is sponsored 
by A Phi O.
The application period is open for Army
ROTC Scholarships. The 3 year scholar­
ship application period runs until May 1 
The Army Scholarship pays full' tuition, 
books, fees, and provides $100 per month.
It also guarantees an Active Army Officer 
appointment in one of over forty special­
ties from infantry to finance, from aviation 
to communications, from engineering to 
artillery. For additional information, see 
Major Johnson in Gym 302 or call 578-
;1 -.-I*,- - V>'. ' V ‘V- : . ¦ ..JMiJT'l
TO THE PRIDE OF
FROM YOUR BUDDY,
PARKERSBURG

---------------------------------------------------

Number 2

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
Now that you know what Dossier is, we’d like to reiterate our plea for 
help. We need people of all backgrounds, interests, and talents* 
Remember, you don’t have to be a writer or an artist to help Dossier — 
simply, we’d like your ideas and suggestions.
In an attempt to broaden Dossier’s appeal, we want to expand the 
science coverage in our articles. So, in addition to humanities and the arts 
writers, our search has begun for science writers and illustrators. Again, 
specific article ideas from students and faculty, especially concerning 
science and technology at CMU, will be gready appreciated. Our goal is to 
discuss developments and controversy in all branches of science, from 
creating new life with genetic engineering to ending current life with laser 
beam weaponry.
A science staff meeting is scheduled for 7 PM this Thursday in the 
Tartan*s main office, Room 50, Skibo. If you’re interested but unable to 
attend, leave a note with your name and phone number in the Tartan 
office.
Dossier urges you to participate in what we feel is a tremendous oudet 
for your talents. Please stop by our office in The Tartan and let us in on 
your ideas. We’d like the opportunity to enhance Dossier, and that will 
only be accomplished if you take a chance and get involved.
Dossier Staff
Editor: Lynn Epstein
Art Directors: Tom Weinkle, Craig Otto
Illustrators: Elisabetta Torossi (p. 4), Bari Harmon (p. 10-11)
Cover Design: Jenny McChesney
In This Issue
3 Opportunity knocks
In this month’s editorial, Lynn Epstein discusses students’ 
lack of interest in extra-curricular opportunities available on 
campus.
A Tale
John Bender, a fine arts major, writes what he calls “an 
adult fairy tale” in this wild and imaginative story about a 
grief-stricken nun.
Old Man on Fifth and Ivy
Carolyn Toth, a senior in creative writing, offers a vivid 
description of a flavorful old man in this poem.
6 Design and Computers
As a result of his attendance at the annual IDSA (Industrial 
Designers Society of America) conference, CMU Design 
Professor Alessandro De Gregori presents the current status 
of computers as problem-solving tools in the realm of design.
8 Edward Eberle
In an interview with reporter Renee Rosenfeld, Edward 
Eberle, Head of the CMU Ceramics Department, discusses the 
concepts behind his sculptures. To get a closer look at 
Eberle’s work, visit Carnegie Institute’s Museum of Art where 
his sculptures are currently on display.
9 Good Form
Looking back at old product design and theory can often be 
a humorous experience. In this article, excerpts from a 1959 
issue of “Autocar” magazine show how efforts to apply 
technology can often lead to misguided designs. Have a good 
chuckle over the concept of aeronautically-designed automo­
biles, an idea in auto design that is, in retrospect, amusing.
10 Suede Blue Eyes
In this painfully realistic stbry, Paul Smith studies the 
reaction and relationships of a man betrayed in love and 
friendship.
A NEW PRICING POLICY FROMTHESALAD COMPANY
(Atwood Street, Oakland Location Only)
The COMPANY SALADNOW
Our standard salad, served daily A heaping bow) * e
with variety of lettuces and vegetables A real B # ¿r
inflation fighter—dollar and pound-wise
The CORPORATE SALADNOW
Extra dividends for a hearty appetite Atwood
Marinade, Eve’s First Year, Orient Express. Orange 
Earth are just a partial inventory
The EXECUTIVE SALADNOW
Decisions, decisions, decisions No wonder Fruit <4%
Melange, Dorian's Delight, Salad Nicoise, Chunky Jr Jr
Cheese, to name a few
Three Delicious Salads Available Each Day 
From Our List Of 32 Creative Offerings.
Mcxle Fr*sh Daify...Comp*«*ly Vegetarian...Fr»« Condi
Hot soup, too-from broccoli soup to vegetable soup - mode from scratch!
Lettuce Serve Ybu
235 Atwöoä Street (Neat Oakland Post Office) 
Mon-N. 8 30AM to 8 00 P M Sat 11 00AM IO700PM
621-0165

---------------------------------------------------

by Lynn Epstein
Surprisingly enough, when opportunity knocks 
on this campus, most students turn the other cheek. 
To be sure, opportunity will not come to your door 
wearing a tux and tails and carrying a silver platter, 
but the way it does present itself here is almost as 
obvious. Unless you walk around campus with 
Q-tips in your ears, a bandana on your eyes, and a 
gag in your mouth, it is impossible not to recognize 
opportunity. Promotional activities, The Tartan, 
lectures, dances, clubs, and committees are only a 
few of the everyday occurences that are student- 
planned from stan to finish, and, according to pop­
ular student comment, there is much room for 
improvement.
But maybe this lack of involvement is not so 
surprising, for some things never change. Despite 
the high school record of leadership and involve­
ment which helped everyone gain admission to 
CMU, there is still only approximately five percent 
of all students who reach for available opportuni­
ties. These chiefs are carrying their leadership quali­
ties into college life, but what about the other 
chiefs? The high school chiefs? The remaining 95% 
of CMU’s student population has dropped out of 
the race, or is challenging the adage that to change 
the system, one must do it from the inside.
One of the more obvious reasons for discontinu­
ing involvement once at college rests on workload. 
“High school was easy, but here I have to work 
twice as hard,” or even, “High school was tough 
enough, but at CMU it’s impossible.” This is a 
valid excuse for perhaps 50% of the uninvolved 
students.
But if you’re not just trying to keep your head 
above water, then the reason may be more ego-
oriented. Part of the answer lies in the abstract term 
“quality,” which is determined through competi­
tion or at least comparison. Something akin to the 
Design Department’s philosophy, “If you can’t run 
with the big dogs, sleep on the porch,” applies here. 
You were top dog, high quality in high school, but 
at CMU you were put in the race with a hundred 
other No. l’s and Best Artists. It’s a matter of quality 
as to who’s the best here and now. Past laurels will 
not win you status in college; they only give you the 
opportunity to compete in a tougher environment.
And so these students who are crushed by the 
competition, or who are even plain frightened to 
enter it, refuse to act as^either chiefs or Indians. Ix>ss 
of an old status results in embamissment and, 
further, in a reevaluation of personal qualities. 
Whether trying to avoid another “failure” or purely 
out of spite, many of these ex-chiefs discontinue all 
involvement. And as for the other students who are 
frightened of the competition, they are really afraid 
of facing a possible first failure. Of course, nolxxly 
likes to fail, but, as the old saying goes, “You never 
know until you try.”
All in all, then* seems to lxi a general complaint 
by students concerning student ajxithy, yet few are 
disposed to improve the situation. Many lament the 
loss of the '60s activism, and a few are try ing to buck 
the system by refusing to participate in its organiza­
tions, and then going out on their own. In a sense, 
this methixl is like cutting off your nose to spite 
your face, beat use those who are uninvolved are 
throwing away a general opportunity to develop 
iheir potential and, in an American spirit, “to get 
ahead.” Although getting ahead in the sense of the 
system is exac tly what is distasteful, going out on 
your own simply improves your own situation. It
does nothing to refonn or recruit others towards 
your ideas. Tire result is usually self-advancement 
with little c ommunity improvement. Few artists are 
interested in creating purely for themselves, and 
since most have an idea or mood to communicate, 
public involvement is a necessaiy outlet to receive 
prac tical experience* and feedbac k. In other words, 
by joining "the system,” you may fiird air outlet for 
your work or interest that a classroom cannot 
provide.
Students must realize that the ()0s was a jxricxl 
when students were united, and the 70s and begin­
ning ’80s are a period of selfish individualism. The 
current lack of involvement is more emphasized by 
this trend of selfishness than it was in the- jxist. 
Everyone wants to do what he wants to do, regard­
less of others, and what is even more emphatic of 
this idea is that college is a time of self-exploration 
and self-improvement. When so many people’s 
goals are self-oriented, they wall themselves up and 
ignore the possibilities of improving their c ampus 
while also improving themselves. It is all well and 
gcxxl for an artist or writer to retreat to his studio 
and spend hours at work by himself. That sort of 
study is necessaiy, but it dcx*s not exc lude panic ipa- 
tion in the literary or artistic outlets of the campus.
Whether you take advantage of campus opportuni­
ties purely out of selfishness or for the improvement 
of the university, DO IT, because that five percent 
that are involved now are going to be* even more 
diluted proceeding graduation. In other words, you 
have every indication to believe this pattern of weed­
ing the chaff from tire wheat will be* replicated "in 
tire outside world,” and any armor in the way of 
experience that you can gather will help make the 
real world less overwhelming.

---------------------------------------------------

by John Bender
side from the nun, the huge stone church was 
empty.' She stood at the heart of its massive, dark interior. The 
size of the surrounding silent space accentuated her singularity 
and the silence and the church waited for her to move, to 
make a sound, waited to be filled with echo.
After a time, the sound came, the sweet voice of Sister Lucille as 
she spoke to the severed head cradled in her hands.
"You accuse me with your eyes, dear brother. You won’t speak, 
but your eyes disown me.”
Her left hand supporting, her right hand shifted over the head, 
rustling its curled brown hair. Her thumb and fingers came across 
the bleached face where the eyes glared, and with her fingertips she 
very gently forced the lids down and shut.
The silence had returned. From where she held the head against 
her, at just above the waist, it dripped thick, dark blood down on to 
the lower portion of her white habit.
Lucille studied the face now, for it had changed. Before, the eyes 
were open, now they were closed. Reaching a secret decision, she 
spoke.
"You are sleeping, Pietro.”
Sister Lucille’s expression showed contentment for a few 
moments, then, her brow creased as part of a frown.
"Or are you pretending to be asleep? How am I to know? If you 
are not truly asleep, you are ignoring me.”
She lifted her gaze from the unmoving face.
"You are ignoring me. I understand. I know why you are doing 
this, Pietro.”
Her eyes not focusing, Lucille walked unsteadily towards a stone 
bench. She sat. Her warm hands framed her brother’s head where it 
nested firmly in her lap.
o
"Do you remember, Pietro, do you remember how I used to sing 
you to sleep? I never made you ask, and I’ve always known what 
pleases you.”
She began to sway, ever so gently, slowly, from side to side, as if 
by the waves of a calm sea. She hummed a melody from her 
childhood, and then softly sang the lyrics. Her pink lips swelled and 
thinned, forming each word very carefully in the manner of a 
student performing for the instructor. The beautiful strains filled 
the church, circling round and round in the great cold stone hall 
and deep in the girl’s ears. Her eyes slowly closed and she might 
have sung herself to sleep, but a heavy pounding rudely shattered 
her bizarre reverie. Sister Lucille bolted upright and almost stared 
at the noise. It continued, louder and more insistent. She rose and 
went to one of the few tall windows, possessively clutching the head 
to her breast. Leaning out into the brightness, she saw, two stories 
below, her Mother Superior, three soldiers and their four steeds. 
They had dismounted and were standing at the entrance to the 
church, but could not enter for Lucille and locked the gate.
The Mother strained under arthritis to look up.
"Sister Lucille, please come down and open the gate.”
The old woman’s head was wagging as if she were indicating no. 
"Please, child. We have come to take you home.”
In order to relieve the strain of l<x)king up, the Mother Superior 
had been slowly walking backwards while addressing Lucille. She 
stumbled and almost fell, but was caught by the nearest soldier.
One of the other men, who had been constraining the horses, 
suddenly let go of the reins, shot his finger at Lucille, and shouted. 
"Look, she does have it! She’s holding the thing in her hands!” 
The Mother Superior waved her hand sharply.
"Be silent! You will say things to frighten her.” Then, in a softer 
voice, "Sister Lucille, we know that you have your brother’s...” 
She did not finish the sentence.
"We know that you had the forest boy bring it to you.”
Sister Lucille’s mind reacted strongly to the mention of the 
forest boy. TTie four figures below her dissolved, to be replaced by a 
vision of an encounter from earlier the same day. She saw the forest 
boy before her, staring at her blankly. His bare feet were calloused, 
with long, yellow nails curling over the black toes. His fingers too 
had nails like claws. Lucille could see the lice skittering through the 
oily matted hair that grew down over his face like wild weed. His 
appearance and odor no longer shocked Lucille. She had been 
secretly feeding him for quite some time, and he trusted her. She 
alone believed that he could understand speech.
"You must do something for me. It is very important, and it is 
very important that you understand what I will tell you.”
She wanted to reach out and touch his shoulder, but then 
considered the gesture might startle him.
"The people of the town are holding my brother, Pietro. They 
want to kill him. They want to kill him because,...It is my fault, a 
terrible mistake.”
Tears filled Sister Lucille’s eyes, her desperation increasing as 
she spoke.
"They are going to kill him this afternoon, in the center of town, 
at noon. When the sun is highest.” She pointed to the sky. "But 
you will stop them. You can do it, you are strong! We call you boy 
but you have the body of an animal, as strong as any man’s!
You will go to town today and save my Pietro. Bring him to the 
church, I will be waiting there.”
The forest boy raised his crusted arm and touched a finger to one 
of the tears on Lucille’s cheek. She was not aware of the contact. 
She continued speaking.
"We will be safe in the church, in the House of God. Pietro will 
have time to think.”
The hours passed and the forest boy was alone, crouched in the 
dark of an alley near the center of the town. He was look at his 
finger, the one he had touched to Lucille’s cheek. He brought the 
fingertip close to his face for intense examination. Perhaps the 
special water from the beautiful women in white had seeped 
through his own skin and now was inside him, making her a part of 
him. This possibility pleased him. He smiled. He was pleased also 
that his memory allowed him to hear Lucille’s voice over and over 
again in his mind. Remembering, he suddenly rose and walked out 
into the light of day. The sun was very high, he shielded his eyes as 
he looked at its location in the cloudless sky.
In the town square, a few minutes before the execution, was to 
take place, people noticed the forest boy inching towards the 
guillotine scaffold. They assumed that he had come out of the 
woodland to pick pockets in the crowd that had gathered. Those 
who knew he was about kept a hand on their money pouch.
Almost the entire population had come to see Pietro Armand, 
the brother to one of their beloved Franciscan nuns, put to death. It 
was five minutes till noon when Pietro arrived, escorted by the 
town dignitaries.
Despite ill-fitting peasant clothes, Pietro was a striking young 
man. He maintained an erect posture, and his expression, although 
betraying anger and grief, displayed no fear.
The Mayor ascended the steps to the top of the scaffold, and 
standing in front of the guillotine, he read aloud an announcement 
of the charges and sentence passed. Finishing, he turned, shooed 
away two birds that had alighted atop the suspended blade, and then 
stood back, his hands behind him. The Mayor, like all those he 
served, was proud of the guillotine. By vote, the townspeople had 
chosen the death-device over a sewerage system. It was the only 
one within a month’s travel.
Pietro was lead up the steps, and after a few prayers by Father 
Joseph, was made to lie on his stomach and his neck was secured by 
a wooden brace. A short drum roll, the sound of many f*eople 
drawing their breath, then, the blade fell.
As no basket had been employed, the head rolled off the scaffold 
and onto the ground, where the forest boy was waiting. He scooped 
it up with both hands and ran like a fox. The element of surprise 
was on his side, for it was several moments before any soldiers took 
off after him. They lost him completely when he slithered through 
a hole under the wall surrounding the parish garden.
When the soldiers returned to the town square, everyone was 
milling about debating why the forest boy had taken the severed 
head. Some said he was going to give it to the animals who had 
raised him. Others, that he was going to eat it himself.
Mother Superior was speaking to the Mayor and townsmen. She 
told them that, much disturbed by thoughts of her brother’s 
impending death, Sister Lucille had left for the church, the Mother 
felt she knew where the boy was taking the head.
A tense voice cut through Lucille’s daydream. Images faded and 
reality began to flood her senses.
"Sister Ixicille! Sister Lucille! Please respond child!”
She found herself standing at the tall window, still clutching the 
head. Mother Superior was growing impatient.
"Sister Lucille, you will unlock this gate. If you do not, these 
men shall have to break it down. The church belongs to God, you 
will not have it damaged by your stubborness.”
Lucille made no sign of acknowledgement. The shifting light cast 
her face in shadow. Mother Superior decided to be coldly realistic.
"We must have all of your brother in order to bury him 
properly.”
Lucille noticed that the soldiers’ tunics matched the color of the 
blood that was caking on her hands and garment. Nausea struck. 
She pulled in from the window and leaned against the wall. Her 
back slid down the wall until she was sitting on the floor. She tilted 
the head so that it faced her.
"I’m sorry Pietro. Pm sorry that it is all my fault. I can tell that 
you are angry.”
She waited for a reply.
"Do not scold me, Pietro.”
Her tears fell onto the dead flesh.
"I will tell you the truth. You must listen, I will tell you the truth 
now.”
Lucille took a deep breath and tried to calm herself. She let her 
thoughts drift back, flashes of faces, gestures, expressions, and 
many voices came and went like sunlight through the leaves of a 
windblown tree. Out of this confusion she found the desired 
moment, herself, kneeling in a darkened booth. On the other side of 
a wood grille in a duplicate booth, a priest is silent. Lucille waits. 
She cannot think of anything more to say. The priest must be 
carefullly probing his soul to find the most appropriate words of 
advice. She begins to feel hopeful. Perhaps this man shall be able to 
ease her conscience.
The priest stirs, unexpectedly she hears the door to the adjoining 
booth opened, and then the door to the confessional in which she 
kneels is opened. Father Joseph stands before her, ¿Illuminated by 
the flickering light from dozens of candles. Lucille’s first impluse is 
to reach out and close the door before the priest has time to 
recognize her, before he realizes who she is. Father Joseph steps 
away from the door.
"G)me with me, Sister.”
Father Joseph called an emergency session of the Town Council, 
comprised of himself, the Mother Superior, the Mayor, and Town 
Elders.
Lucille sat facing these at the head of the long table in the dining 
room of the Mayor’s home. Her back to the windows, the incoming 
light, cast and stretched her shadow over the surface of the table, its 
rectangular contour making a perfect frame for the silhouette.
The others seated, Father Joseph was standing.
"Sister Lucille, tell the members of the Council what you told me 
earlier.
Lucille looked puzzled.
"I don’t biow,....”
Her mind raced. She was refusing to accept that he was refering 
to what she had revealed in confession.
Father Joseph held a Bible with both hands.
'Tell them what you told me just an hour ago.”
Not wanting his presentation to loose its momentum, he didn’t 
wait for Lucille’s response. Turning to the members, he deepened 
his voice for dramatic effect.
"I will tell you. Heed my shocking words. This young bride of 
Christ revealed to me that she had been the victim of rape, at the 
hands of her own brother!”
'That’s not true! That’s not what I said, that’s not what 
happened!”
Lucille felt all their eyes burning into her. She sank back into her 
chair, repeating, almost in a whipser,
'That’s not what happened.”
Everything that would transpire from here on became a dream 
for Lucille. A slowly thickening dream, quietly becoming heavier, 
more dense, more inescapable as time unraveled. As Lucille sat 
motionless, the meeting continued. Questioned as to just what 
Lucille had said, Father Joseph repeated her confession, almost 
word for word. Lucille listened to the story of her past as recited by 
another. She and Pietro grew up together. Without parents, they 
survived together. Then, arriving here, Lucille discovered and 
joined the convent. Hec one fear was that she would never see 
Pietro again. But after a time, he returned to the town, and would 
visit Lucille at the convent. Lucille began to slip away from the 
convent to spend nights alone with Pietro. They discovered that 
their love for each other had not diminished, and expressed this 
love physically. Torn between what she was taught by the nuns 
about sin and the flesh, and her love for Pietro, Lucille was plagued 
by guilt and fear of damnation. For relief, she exposed her history 
through the sacrament of confession.
As the meeting progressed, Father Joseph expressed his rationale 
that Sister Lucille had obviously been raped by Pietro, but was 
unable to face the truth. The fact that he was spiritual advisor for 
the nuns contributed largely to his judgement of the situation. Not 
one of them would willfully defile their oath of chastity, let alone 
commit incest!
The Mother Superior put forward how understandable it was 
that so heinous an occurence would warrant a break of the sacred 
trust between priest and confessor. The Mayor thanked Father 
Joseph for having the courage to do so.
Lucille opened her eyes. Before her loomed the shadowy interior 
of the church. Feeling it in her hands, she lifted the head till it was 
level with her own.
'They ordered your arrest, Pietro. It is all so amazing. I did not 
think anyone would want to hurt you.”
She drew it close, tight against her bosom, and caressed the 
temple and brow.
"No one will. Just as I had the forest boy save you, so shall I 
protect you now. There is no need to be fearful, dear brother.
The pounding oil the church gate grew louder. Outside, the 
forest boy began to throw stones at the old nun and the three men 
who were trying to break down the gate. Inside, Sister Lucille was 
sitting on the stone floor, and was once again singing the remem­
bered song.

---------------------------------------------------

OLD MAN ON FIFTH AND IVY 
by Carolyn Toth
He knows the dog 
that tips the garbage 
onto the sidewalk, 
and his window is smeared 
from fingers he used 
| to eat jam tarts and cheetos.
I He calls out the seasons,
“Hey, it’s autumn you know!”, 
and nearly falls 
out his window 
from excitement.
The nurses eat the cookies 
you bake him for Christmas 
| but hell still offer you 
the chocolate chip 
that is crumbled 
8 on the grass outside.
He listens to transistor church 
| three times a Sunday 
and drinks his first wine 
on Easter, when the preacher 
is Episcopal.
You’d like to think he’s mad, 
but he spoils that comfort 
when he recalls 
that you’re a writer 
and hands you a copy 
of Katherine Porter’s death.
“It took her twenty years to write one book, 
so you best hurry.”
He yells as if you are the deaf one.
Then notions 
of his dormant eardrums 
and stepless feet.
Yes,
you’d better hurry.

---------------------------------------------------

6
Design
"Automated 
Design Office' 
Workshop
Computers
Diffusion 
of Computer 
Technology
Because computers are aids to problem solving, the 
capabilities of computer technology are beneficial to almost all 
fields, creative, social and technical. Design is one of those 
fields in which problem solving plays a major role, and 
therefore computer usage in design is rapidly expanding. 
Although it is generally misunderstood that design is merely 
"making things look nice," the growing application of 
computer-aided design implies that this field offers solutions to 
problems which concern more important issues than just 
aesthetics.
The following article is a commentary by CMU's Design Profes­
sor Alessandro De Gregori on the 1980 Industrial Designers 
Society of America’s f/DSA) annual conference, a large part of 
which dealt with the application and impact of computer technol­
ogy on the design field. r
Almost all of the meetings I attended implied 
that society is facing the impact of diffused 
applications of computerized and intelligent 
functions in products, and that some people are 
aware of the necessity of working out the 
communication gaps between humans and 
computers.
The single most impressive concept I derived 
from the conference is that "literacy" will soon 
include competence in some computer langua­
ge...until somebody will solve the problem of 
making electronic products more or less literate 
in the current language their users use for 
communicating among themselves.
"Management 
of Design 
Personnel" 
Workshop
The computer industry is replacing the auto­
mobile industry as number one revenue source 
in the U.S. Yet the man in the street has failed 
to assess the real impact of computer technol­
ogy on his daily life. Even the experts find it 
difficult to follow the changes and more than 
that, the potential applications of computer 
technology. The demand for more applications 
will certainly open new product design oppor­
tunities in the near future. As far as designers 
are concerned they generally tend to think that 
their skills cannot extensively benefit from 
computers. This traditional attitude seems now 
to be changing.
At the "Automated Design Office" workshop, 
several speakers provided both evidence and 
scenarios of a true design office revolution in 
progress. Computer aided design (CAD) and 
computer aided model making (CAM) equipment 
are in use. Xerox and General Electric are the 
major producers of such equipment. A report 
was made about computer generated three 
dimensional models and model patterns cut 
from drawings through a computer. The current 
cost estimates for creative capability systems 
range between $30,000 and $350,000. At the 
higher end you get a top state of the art CAD 
system with a high resolution (CRT) display. It is 
anticipated that this cost will be reduced almost 
50% by 1985.
It.has also been reported that the training of a 
designer for achieving computer aided drawing 
efficiency is about three months. As optimistic 
as the figure may be, one cannot avoid making a 
comparison with the amount of time traditionally 
required for achieving manual drawing effi­
ciency. The speakers conveyed the idea that the 
computerized design office will soon be diffused 
on a large scale.
Design related languages now in use are 
mostly derived from engineering design. The 
existing CAD equipment and available software 
allows improvement of efficiency related to 
execution phases of the design process such as 
drafting, tool definition, control documents, and 
storage of images and date. One true limitation 
to the practical diffusion of CAD in design still 
exists. There are not yet comprehensive lan­
guages which could direct the computer to 
process esthetic parameters otherwise referred 
to as the esthetic algorithm along with structu­
ral and user-related algorithms. This is a 
contribution the design discipline could bring to 
the field of information science and this goal 
has implications on directions of research and 
education.
What are these implications? There are sev­
eral and they are more or less related to the 
question: if a comprehensive "design algorithm" 
could be processed by the computer, could 
anybody trained in computer aided design, say a 
design engineer, design the entire product and 
make the industrial designer obsolete? I'd like to 
leave this question open for further discussion. 
My argument is that as a consequence of these 
implications the mode of intervention and the 
market demand for industrial design profession­
als will probably shift in emphasis from skill 
performance to research performance at one 
end and evaluative performance at the other end 
of the design process.
Some of the above issues were repeated and 
amplified during the "Management of Design 
Personel" workshop. Robert Veryzer, design

---------------------------------------------------

7
"Strategie 
Direction of 
Office Products' 
Workshop
consultant and formerly with General Motors, 
reported that GM has already installed CRT 
terminals in each of 34 design studios. He also 
anticipates that by 1985 no design graduate 
applicants will be considered by GM without 
credits on computer programming and CAD 
education. In the same workshop other relevant 
issues were presented-
• trend toward "better" vs. "newer" design,
• search for design graduates who are able 
to read production drawings,
• trend toward more interdisciplinary and 
team work for designers, which falls into 
three major areas: design and engineers, 
design and marketing, design psychology 
and human factors.
The development of the computer aided design 
office could be seen as one of the current trends in 
the overall office work evolution. Douglas Bronson, 
Director of Stategy, IBM Office Products Division, 
held a workshop on "Strategic Directions of Office 
Products". He reported that the history of the office 
shows a slow development of mechanization and 
automation if compared to that of manufacturing. 
The result is that the productivity ratio of office 
work vs. manufacturing has steadily declined since 
1900 to date despite the introduction of computers 
and the variety of office product options.
Two major constraints have prevented a better 
efficiency of office work; both relate to lack of focus 
on strategic design issues. First, office products are 
not yet integrated as part of an overall communica­
tion processing network. Despite the fact that the 
computer and the telephone are rapidly growing 
into each other, the reality of the office landscape 
today is that most parts are still separated: there is 
the typewriter and the word processor, there is the 
copier and the dictating machine. Furthermore, 
some of these parts are still inefficient due to the 
diversified nature of office work. An example: 
statistics show and we all experience that only 25% 
of manually activated telephone calls are completed
successfully.
The second constraint to office work efficiency 
relates to human factors criteria in design. It is 
recognized that the most challenging human 
factors problems to overcome, in order to gain a 
wider support of electronic communications in the 
office, are the development of a plain English, 
"natural" computer language and simpler modes of 
interaction with terminals through improved or new 
input/output components.
As a solution to these constraints, technological 
applications in the office scenario assume the office 
as a man-machine integrated system of communi­
cations, with compatible "intelligent" system com 
ponents. These include: voice and character 
recognition terminals, spelling recognition word 
processing, computerized copier/printers with 
image and text integration, electronic mail systems, 
remote conferencing.
Major corporations in the electronic industry are 
currently involved in human factors studies as their 
solutions seem to have finally achieved the status 
of marketable commodities. The product stategy in 
the industry has also shifted in response to human 
factors' related requirements of different markets. A 
"think international" approach to design is being 
stressed as a means to develop product compliance 
and adaptability to diversified user requirements 
which are supported by local government 
regualtions.
M icroprocessors 
Technology
"Electronic
Technology
&Design"
Workshop
Conclusion
The common denominator of so much fervor at 
the IDSA annual conference about electronic 
communications, their implications on the office of 
microprocessor technology. After a few years of 
incubation this technology has finally reached the 
consciousness of the design community at large.
Microprocessors do not pollute or deplete natural 
resources and are not intrinsically dangerous to 
society; they are extremely energy efficient and 
economical, they make possible miniaturization, the 
production of computers for the consumer market, 
and their application in the development of various 
degrees of "intelligent" functions in products for 
any use has just begun.
One of the most direct advantages of micropro­
cessor technology which is related to design 
concerns is its potential for adaptability to serve 
human needs, facilitating the operation of products 
and equipment, making them safe, more efficient, 
and comfortable to interact with. The potential 
solutions this technology could offer are not yet 
fully explored.
Gerry Birdwell, Ph.D. Corporate Industrial 
Designer and Senior liuman Factors Engineer for 
Texas Instruments who held the workshop "Elec­
tronic Technology and Design" presented directions 
his group is undertaking in order to solve critical 
design parameters. Besides the previously menti­
oned notion that user requirements must be turned 
into simple language programs, products would be 
able to speak and recognize voices, and the 
complexity of actual input components should be 
partitioned. In this regard, for instance, multimode 
keyboards of 15, maximum 20 keys, should 
substitute the actual 45 keys of programmable 
calculators. The most impressive research demon­
stration was about synthetic speech to be used in 
future products for instructions, messages, teaching 
and reinforcement of visual information.
The expanding electronic technology such as 
development of microprocessors, their applications 
and diffusion, have been the focus of the 1980 
IDSA annual conference.
In the next decade the applications of this 
technology could pervade the human habitat, the 
factory, the office, and the school and have critical 
impacts on our modes of working and life styles. 
The questions that may intrigue the designer are: 
How well will society adjust to the changes it 
creates? What could the related contribution of the 
design profession be?
In reference to the first question, something 
remarkable is happening. It seems that the young 
generation is assimilating in real time implications 
and changes of this technology, even before school 
age. This changing technology has no critical 
impact on the young. He and she are growing up 
with it. Children today have the same familiarity 
and fun with microprocessors gadgetry that several 
previous generations used to have with airplane 
models and dolls, or, later in life, with automobiles. 
The booming acceptance of "intelligent" toys is the 
best available indicator that perhaps this time 
society will be more at ease with technological 
change.
As to the second question, the design profession 
has favorable opportunity to contribute to planning 
and development of applications of the fast 
changing electronic technology. The academic field 
should consider the shifts of emphasis in design 
education which such technology implies as well as 
participation in research which may help make ft a 
true instrument for improving learning, working and 
living conditions.

---------------------------------------------------

Before climbing the stairs to the main galleries of 
the Carnegie Institute’s Museum of Art, stroll into 
the entrance gallery. In front of you stands a figure, 
although you can not be certain that you have 
accurately interpeted this abstract rendering. Now 
you stand above a tag naming the piece. "Man rising 
from the infinity circle (banality) to thought realm 
(spiritual).”
"Man rising...” stands in the center of the gallery 
filled with the work of Edward Eberle, Head of the 
CMU Ceramics Department. The exhibit, which 
continues through November 23rd, reaches into the 
core of Eberle’s artistic development. The show 
provides an important record of the artist’s work to 
date; he has been involved with the medium for the 
past 15 years. His interest in ceramics was kindled 
by a mandatory clay class while doing undergraduate 
work in Art Education at Edinboro State Gillege. 
After several years in the military, Eberle received 
an MFA in Ceramic Design from Alfred University 
in New York.
In the past, Eberle has participated in several 
invitational shows on a national level. The pieces he 
has selected for the exhibit at the Carnegie Institute 
are concerned with life. "Man rising..” conceptual­
izes man rising into another kind of thought pattern, 
circular base symbolizes earth, the^ 
the duality of good and evil, which 
sees as a constant force. From the base 
extends Eberle’s abstraction of the human figure.
Eberle also exhibits two life-size vessles (one of 
man and one of women) that follow the physical 
to the shoulders. The black and white vessles 
portray man as he is sensed rather than seen. 
Standing side by side, the vessles work and blend 
together.
In another piece, Eberle depicts a cat and a 
mouse. Their interaction exemplifies "the primeaval 
routine” on two different levels. On one level, the 
cat and mouse are playful, while on another level 
they are fighting for survival.
Eberle’s audience often views his work as 
resembling African or Indian art. He sees these 
observations as a true representation of the 
sensitivity he attempts to emulate. He aims at 
bringing together many cultures in an effort to 
describe what life is about in religious and 
ceremonial ways.
Eberle considers his work to be extremely 
personal. He does not create for the purpose of 
selling. Through his ceramic abstractions, he embra­
ces the spirituality of existence beyond physical 
being. The present condition of man provides the 
framework for Eberle’s creations. He chooses to 
comment on man’s image of mankind. Although his 
work attempts to resolve conflicts in ethical and 
moral behavior, he does not consider himself a social 
artist, "by any stretch of the imagination.” He 
stresses striving for higher planes but warns of 
"out-thinking pieces.”
Eberle does not pin-down his artistic inspiration to 
one particular artist or experience. Rather, he finds 
inspiration in anything from taking a morning 
shower to meeting an individual through the typical 
events of the a daily schedule. To Eberle,
"inspiration does not come easily, so I grab it when 
I can get it.” His students affect his work greatly.
He views students, particularly here at CMU, as 
extremely intelligent, sensitive, and "in some cases, 
destined to be more sensitive and have more impact 
than I will ever have.” His students offer him 
energy, which keeps him "fresh.”
Eberle suggests that "you allow yourself to 
disassociate yourself from that immediate time and 
space,” when viewing his work. He continues by 
explaining the importance of feeling "another kind 
of an awareness of where you are in relation to the 
work and when you get back to reality, you will be 
richer for that experience. Art is a mirror; it will 
reflect back to you as much as you let it. By your 
comments and observations, it will tell you who you 
are in relation to who you were.”
Eberle
by Renee Rosenfeld
Tucked away in the sub-basement of Doherty HaU is 
an oasis of artistic expression. Amongst this treasure of 
creativity is the studio of Edward Eberle, Head of the 
CMU Ceramics Department. Scattered between large 
gray trash cans, stunted stools, wooden work tables, 
toivering shelves, and perpetual dust are the creations 
that inspire Eberle’s livelihood. Many of these creations
Institute’s Museum of

---------------------------------------------------

9
f arqe tail fins may 
increase total drag 
by causing air to flow 
across them to join the 
stream leaving the tai
YAWING
MOMENT
SIDE
FORCE
PITCHINGMOMENT
Direction of forces and moments acting on a car and caused solely by
the airflow around it
S
TREAMLINING as applied to the private car is one 
of those pursuits which, like the search for a successor 
to the poppet valve for engines, or an infinitely variable 
gear for transmissions, is taken up with enthusiasm from 
time to time, only to be dropped again. It has never 
developed continually as in aeronautics, where it is of 
primary importance, and is a prey to the whims of fashion 
and the often-conflicting ideas of stylists.
t
LIFT
DRAG

---------------------------------------------------

10
SUEDE BLUE EYES 
By Paul Smith
Just as I started to piss, the phone 
rang. “Christ/’ I said to the Marilyn 
Monroe poster above the toilet tank. 
I got to the phone in the middle of 
the sixth ring. Matthew asked what 
had taken so long.
“Sorry, I was in the boys room.” 
“It’s cool, just don’t let it happen 
again.”
“Tee hee. What’s going on?” 
“Lots. Neil and I are going out to 
Mattituck and we’re taking you with 
us -- oh, first of all, Marcus wants to 
know how many hits we want. I told 
him you weren’t sure whether you 
wanted to get them anymore, so I’d 
ask you.”
“Oh boy.” The idea of being pres­
sured before breakfast annoyed me. 
“How many can you afford, you’d 
better just get that many.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yeah.”
“Alright, I guess that’s about...five 
hundred hits. You know the price 
break is at a thousand.”
“I know.” There was a short 
pause.
“Listen, I know you’ve heard this 
before, but I think it’s kind of stupid 
to operate at such a small level. If it’s 
just...if you don’t want to deal, you 
know I can do all the dealing, I’ll just 
give you your share of the profit. 
That way we’ll both come out ahead, 
and you won’t have to worry.”
“No, it’s not just that. It’s like this. 
I’m not in school, I have all this 
money, I’m sitting here on Sutton 
Place... I keep thinking about why 
I’m still being a criminal. I feel like I 
should be doing real life, grown up 
things with my money.”
“Yeah? Like playing the bass?” 
“No, come on, I mean invest­
ments, so I can play the fucking bass 
and not worry. Look, I have this 
wonderful inheritence, but I have to 
manage the bucks instead of just let­
ting them sit. And if I’m going to 
have people watching my money, I 
can’t be dropping a thousand bucks 
at a time into drug deals.”
“OK. New approach. It would be 
such a favor to me if you would do 
this, just this last time. You know I 
have to live off these litde transac­
tions, the hospital doesn’t pay me 
shit.” Matt was a pre-med at N.Y.U. 
at the time, and had a part-time job 
as an autopsy technician. “Kier, you 
would make a big difference in the 
quality of my diet if you would go in 
on this with me.”
“Matthew.” I resigned myself. “If I 
put up bucks for this, you have to 
promise you are going to hold onto 
your profits and re-invest them, so 
you don’t have to come to me any­
more. Being able to finance yourself, 
that’s part of being a businessman. 
I’m not going to pretend I’m Chemi­
cal Bank for you forever.”
“You’re so great with double­
entendre. Don’t think of yourself as 
my bank, you’re my benefactor. 
You’re contributing to the realiza­
tion of what will one day be a great 
career.”
¥
“I’m financing drug deals for a 
faggot pre-med who cuts up dead 
bodies for a living.”
“I’m not a faggot, I’m bi-sexual. 
Androgynous, that’s what I am, 
androgynous. Listen, Kier, I can’t 
thank you enough. You won’t regret 
it, I promise.”
Yeah, well, if it weren’t for you, I 
couldn’t get drunk and tell people I 
have a friend who’s a faggot pre-med 
who cuts up dead bodies for a 
living.”
“Androgynous. Oh, anyway - so 
you and Harper Jane are coming out 
to Matdtuck with us to see Georgie. 
Neil says he’s getting fat and loud 
¦without us to throw him around.” 
“I can’t. I’m having lunch with 
my Uncle Ron, he wants to talk to 
me about tax shelters, or something. 
That guy is really anxious to give me 
a proper businessman’s ulcer. He 
says I should worry more about my 
money. It’s free lunch, anyway.” 
“You’ll always be a starving rock 
and roller at heart.”
“Yeah. You should call Harper, 
she still might want to go.”
“Maybe she will, that would be 
nice. I’ll get to talk to her without 
having you around.”
“I knew you two would get along. 
That’s why I started seeing her, I 
thought you needed exposure to 
some normal people.”
“I’m glad you care.”
I gave him her phone number and 
we hung up.
As I stalked breakfast I thought 
about Harper Jane. I’d been spend­
ing a lot of time doing that lately, the 
thought that I would be living with 
her in three weeks made me nervous.
I was very infatuated with her, and it 
was the first time in my undistin­
guished sexual career I’d been so 
close to getting something right.
Matthew showed up as I was dress­
ing for lunch. He was impeccably 
funky in old scuffed up pointy black 
boots, jeans, a turquoise T-shirt, and 
a black leather blazer. I was wearing 
cream yellow trousers, a white silk 
shirt, and a vest and tie, for my 
Uncle’s sake. We left the apartment 
and walked to Fifty-ninth street. It 
was a little cloudy, and not hot. Mat­
thew talked about micro-biology. 
Suddenly I remembered.
“Damn. I had something back at 
my apartment I was going to show 
you. I forgot. I got this pair of shoes, I 
swear, that somebody gave me. The 
old guy across the hall. His brother 
died, and he had all these shoes. Any­
way, he gave me these alligator 
shoes, from about 1942. They’re 
pointy, they have four eyelets and 
little teeny laces with metal tips, 
you’ll love them.”
“That’s great! No one ever gives 
me shoes, I’m jealous.”
The first conversatioin I ever had 
with Matthew was about shoes. He 
tried to pick me up in Max’s, I told 
him I wasn’t gay but I really liked his 
boots. He thought that was hilar­
ious, and we spent the rest of the
I
t
evening singling out people in the 
crowd and making up stories about 
them.
That was only about two weeks 
after my father died. In the two years 
since, he had become my only real 
confidante. He was different from 
my other friends in that he never 
inquired about or even acknowleged 
my many sudden gloomy moods, 
my irrational changes in disposition. 
It was comfortable for me not to jus­
tify my emotions. He was trendier 
that I, and laughed at trendiness 
more than I.
But we’d been falling apart since 
we’d starting dealing together.
We stopped at the Seaman’s Bank 
office. I withdrew nine hundred dol­
lars and gave Matt eight hundred. 
He thanked me again and walked to 
the subway to go to the village to 
meet Neil and Harper. I took a cab 
downtown to meet my Uncle.
I first saw Harper Jane Minahan 
in the Lone-Star cafe in February. 
Carl Perkins (the greatest old rocker) 
was playing. She was on the small 
dance floor in front of the stage, 
squished together with the crowd, so 
was I. Everyone was trying to dance. 
She was tall and narrow, her hair 
was short curly blond. She had eyes 
that were both tired and happy. 
They were four-in-the-morning 
eyes. I imagined her at four in the 
morning, secured that image in my 
mind, and filed it away under “recall 
during masturbation.” By the end of 
the show she had left. Not that it 
would have mattered, because I 
never try to start anything in a bar. I 
consider pick-up a spectator sport.
A week later I met her. I was sitting 
on a patch of carpet in the basement 
of a record shop on Grove street 
where my band practices, trying to 
learn the harmonica under the 
instruction of Nicholas, the 
drummer. (The band was called The 
Willies, and we did mosdy old Mon- 
kees songs. It was a good concept, 
but we broke up before we ever got 
out of the basement. Show biz.) Jack 
Walsh and Garth, the guitarists, 
were standing by the stairway trying 
to convince Joey Najaar, the organ 
player, that we should do a power- 
chord version of the song “Kids” 
from the show “Bye Bye Birdie.” 
Someone’s girlfriend was playing a 
tape of “Pop Muzik” again and 
again, and three mods I didn’t know 
who’d shown up in the middle of 
rehearsal were passing lines of coke 
between themselves, not offering 
them to anyone else.
%
S’.
NV^
Down the stairway and into the 
small cluttered room came Nicholas’ 
sister, known as Marie-from- 
Canarsie, with two girls I don’t 
remember and the girl from the 
Lone-Star with the eyes. They were 
all introduced, the only name I 
caught was Harper’s. Marie led them 
over to the carpet scrap and they sat 
down with Nicholas and me. And of 
course, the natural thing to do was 
start a conversation with one o£ 
them, so...
“Harper, that’s a great name.”
“Yeah, it’s my mother’s maiden 
name. Who are you?”
“Kier.”
"Is that French?”
“No. Well...yeah, the name is, but 
I’m not. My mother was on a French 
kick when I was bom. She named me 
Kier Jean-Paul Giordano. I’m only R 
about one-fifth Italian, for that 
matter.”
“Kier plays the bass,” said Marie- 
from-Canarsie.
“Oh.” said Harper. “I saw you in 
the Lone-Star Thursday. You looked 
like you were having a good time.”
“I was just going to say the same 
thing...”
We talked about Carl Perkins, 
then the band worked on “I’m a 
Believer” for a while. Afterwords we 
talked some more. About Robert 
Gordon and Eddie Cochran. I asked 
if she wanted to go down to China­
town to eat. She said yes.
She was easy to talk to, we began 
to exchange life stories, piece by 
piece. She was intrigued that I was 
an orphan. I pointed out that it was 
strange to consider someone whosf 
last parent died when he was twenty- 
two an orphan, but she didn’t think 
so. She had been a literature majorat 
C.C.N.Y., and was now working at 
Balducci’s chic foodstore in the 
Village.
After dinner, we bought some 
wine and took a cab back to my 
apartment. We drank, talked, lis­
tened to Diana Ross and Otis Red­
ding records, and made love.

---------------------------------------------------

11
. It used to happen that I would fall 
hopelessly in love with women, 
finally to go to bed with them, and be 
in such awe of them that I couldn’t 
screw. After a few days they would 
politely excuse themselves from my 
life, and I would be depressed for a 
month. That didn’t happen this 
time. We stayed together.
The lease on her apartment on 
Ninth Street was up at the end of
* August, and she was supposed to 
move in with me. But when she 
called and said she was changing her 
mind, I only let it surprise me for a 
moment.
It was four days after the day I 
didn’t go to Mattituck with her, 
Matt, and Neil. She talked about it 
being too soon, about whether we’d 
get along, things we’d decided long 
ago wouldn’t be problems. She also 
said she didn’t think we should see 
each other as much anymore.
“What does ‘not as much any­
more’ mean? Like once a week not as 
much, or like goodbye not as 
much?”
“I just mean not as much, I think 
it’s too heavy. There are too many 
mind games.”
Of all the groovy meaningless sev­
enties expressions, “Mind Games” is 
the one I loathe most, even more 
than “Living Space” or “Go For It.” 
“Is there someone else?”
“No.”
She was a person who compul­
sively told the truth to everyone, it 
was strange to hear her lie. 
“Really?”
“Well, yes, sort of, but it’s not sig­
nificant to the problem.”
“Yes, sort of. Anyone I know?” 
“Kier, it’s not significant, that’s 
totally separate from the problem of 
living together.”
“Anyone I know?” She was silent 
for a while. She always told the truth. 
“Matthew.”
“Matthew, like from N.Y.U., that 
Matthew?”
“Yes. But it’s not like we’re start­
ing anything up, it’s incidental.”
“Well I don’t know if you can call 
it incidental; five days ago every­
thing was thought out and setded 
and peachy, we were even in love, if 
you’ll pardon the expression. Then 
you go out on Long Island with 
some fag.;.Harper, he’s gay, for 
Christ’s sake!”
“He’s androgynous. And he’s not 
‘some fag,’ I thought he was your 
closest friend, you said.”
“Yeah, that’s pretty incidental 
too...”
“Christ. This doesn’t have to be 
like this. We’ll talk later when we 
can both be cool about it.”
We didn’t talk later. I spent five 
days, alternately pissed at the world, 
Harper, Matthew, myself* and var­
ious combinadons of the four, 
finally setding on a general disdain 
for existence best dealt with by inges­
tion of lots of Demerol and Tolwin. 
(This to the great annoyance of my 
band, since it badly impaired my 
ability to play the bass or talk to 
people.)
On the sixth day I was awoken by 
the telephone at two PM. It was 
Matthew.
“Kier, I have to talk to you.” 
“Uh, no, I don’t think you do, 
actually.”
“Really, Kier...”
“Matt, you don’t have to talk to 
me, really. If you... I don’t need you 
to offer me a chance to prove I’m not 
childish by offering me a chance to 
be childish at you. I’d rather just not 
deal with it at all.”
“Listen, I really didn’t want to dis­
cuss Harper and everything with 
you, and I knew you wouldn’t want 
to. You’re perceptive enough to real­
ize the problems between the two of 
you, and-’’
“Yeah, that’s even more convinc­
ing from you than it was from her.” 
“I didn’t want to discuss it.” 
“You called.”
“Well I have to talk to you about 
the money.”
“The money, what about the fuck­
ing money. I broke off our partner­
ship, you stole my girlfriend. That’s 
the world of high finance.”
“Well I have to talk to you about 
the money.” He paused for a 
moment. “I got ripped off badly. It’s 
really going to be a problem.” 
“That’s God, see, that’s what he 
does to people who steal other peo­
ple’s girlfriends. Something in the 
Bible about that...”
“Kier, please! I didn’t steal your 
girlfriend! What is this, fucking 
nineteen sixty one?”
• “Oh, sorry. You ‘intruded on my 
private space.’ That modem enough 
for you?”
He paused long enough to start a 
new paragraph.
“I was coming out of the subway 
Friday. There was this kid, this fuck­
ing thirteen year old with a gun. He 
took my wallet and all the hits. I was 
going up to Columbia to deliver the 
first two hundred, but I had all the 
bags with me, I was afraid they’d get 
ripped off if I left them in my 
apartment.”
He stopped. When I didn’t 
respond, he spoke. “I had thirty six 
bucks in my wallet. It was all I had 
left after I picked up the hits.”
After it was apparent he wasn’t 
about to continue, I spoke. “You 
know I got the most ridiculous feel­
ing right when you said you got 
ripped off, I got the ridiculous feel­
ing that you were actually going to 
ask me for more money. But then I 
knew immediately that no one in 
your position could ever have the 
balls to do something like that.”
*
v•%
“Neil doesn’t have the money to 
cover my rent, school won’t give me 
two loans at a time. Harper hardly 
has any money.”
“Or you could just ask me to lie 
down on the sidewalk so you can 
¦piss direclty on me, while you’re in 
the mood.”
After a short pause, he continued 
in a controlled tone. “If you give me 
sixteen hundred I can have it ail back 
to you, plus the eight hundred from 
the acid, in maybe two or three 
months.”
“It’s great, really, because now I’ll 
never feel guilty for thinking you’re a 
total scum.”
There was a long silence.
“We could talk about it, if you 
want...the three of us.”
I looked at my bookshelves for a 
moment. “Well now that you’ve said 
that, and feel all reasonable and ever­
ything, you won’t mind wrapping 
up this phone call. You want to 
come by around noon, I ought to be 
back from the bank by then. Since 1 
can’t think of a witty line that’s bit­
ing enough to save you the embarras- 
ment of thanking me, I’m just going 
to hang up.”
I hung up, and laid back down in 
bed. After a half hour, I got up, put 
on my robe, and played solitaire 
darts until dinner.

---------------------------------------------------

Ralph Nader debates 
nuclear energy issues 
with Karen Adelson,
representative of West- 
inghouse Nuclear 
Energy Systems, on 
Wednesday, November 
12 at 8 PM in 
Ballroom.
Walter Williams, crea­
tor of the Mr. Bill show 
and voice of Mr. Bill, 
will speak Monday, 
November 17 at 8 PM 
in Skibo Ballroom. Oh 
No!
/ ^ 
NOV.17
•Presented next Monday by Activities Board
Presented tomorrow by Activities Board
NOV
Open to CMU campus only. CMU ID required
