The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1944
Bill Leone Chosen 
Seniors* M.P.S.E.
At the commencement exercises 
held on June 30, William Charles 
Leone, mech.-aero engineer, was 
selected as “The Most Promising 
Engineer” of his graduating class. 
The announcement was made by 
Theodore Bellan, president of The­
ta Tau.
This award, given by Theta Tau, 
is presented on the basis of recom­
mendations by the heads of the var­
ious departments. Each department 
picks the man in its courses whom 
they believe to be most promising. 
Theta Tau then chooses three or 
four from this group and submits 
their names to the administration, 
which picks the final man.
During the four years that he 
went to C.I.T., Bill Leone, a 
mechanical - aeronautical engineer, 
maintained a 3.6 factor, and when 
he graduated, he was sixth in the 
class.
While here he was widely engag­
ed in extra-curricular activities, in­
cluding many social and honorary 
organizations. He was president of 
Citcom, treasurer of Tau Beta Pi, 
pledge-master of Pi Tau Sigma, and 
a member of Phi Kappa Phi, Theta 
Tau, the American'Society of Me­
chanical Engineers, and the Insti­
tute of Aeronautical Sciences.
Although he is now at his home 
here in Pittsburgh, he is expecting 
to be called to the navy in two or 
three weeks.
Dr. Calla Van Syckle 
Will Head House. Ec.
Dr. Calla Van Syckle, who has 
been Senior Consumer Relations 
Officer in the Office of Price Admin­
istration for the past two and one 
half years, will become head of a 
reorganized Department of Home 
Economics in Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College in the fall.
The new department, which will
Intramural Board Plans 
Big Tennis Tournament
In spite of the reduced student 
body, the Intramural board plans to 
hold a tennis tournament in the 
near future. Participants in the 
singles and doubles matches should 
sign up as soon as possible in the 
office of Frank Munhall.
CIA Grants Eighty-Six Degrees June 30;
Jones Urges Further Study For Seniors
With the playing of the “Star Spangled Banner” by the Army Spe­
cialized Training Unit Band, the fortieth commencement of the College of 
Engineering began on the morning of June 30 in the Sylvan Theatre. Dr. 
William L. Young, Pittsburgh Regional Director of thé National Confer­
ence of Christians and Jews, delivered the invocation, which was followed 
by the singing of “The Nation’s Prayer” by Miss Mabel King accompanied 
by Mr. Charles Pearson.
After an introduction by President Doherty, Dr. Webster N. Jones, 
director of the College of Engineering, delivered an address entitled “Fight
Frosh On A.S.T. Program Change To New Schedule
Professor William R. Work, Assistant Director of the College of En­
gineering and Dean of Freshmen, announced yesterday a revision of the 
schedule of the civilian Freshmen now in the second term of the AST 
program. In order that they may be synchronized with the class which 
entered on June 5, their third semester has been reduced from three to 
two months, lasting from August 8 until September 30.
The revised schedule is as follows:
me uraauatmg class
for the Glory of Carnegie.” He stat­
ed that the future presents a chal­
lenge to each graduate, whether he 
enters the armed forces or private 
industry. He has a responsibility as 
an engineer and also as an intelli­
gent citizen. We certainly have not 
reached a Utopia, ^nd an engineer 
is in a very important position in 
deciding future problems of gov­
ernment. Dr. Jones remarked that 
the president of a Pittsburgh indus­
trial concern had informed him that 
in the company’s post-war program 
a very large number of engineers 
with the doctor’s degree will be 
needed. Using this as an example,
neers to gain degrees beyond the 
initial bachelor's degree.
Following the address, Miss King 
presented another song entitled 
“Sea Moods.” Various announce­
ments were made by President 
Doherty. He stated that since the 
last commencement two months ago 
three hundred and sixty thousand 
dollars had been donated to the 
Institute. Attention was also called 
to the recent death of Dr. Lawler 
and to the sixteen honor students in 
the graduating class.
The ceremony or the conferring 
of degrees was then performed, 
with Dr. William R. Work present-
be organized on September 1, will 
include all of the instruction for­
merly given under three depart­
ments—Costume Economics, House­
hold, and Vocational Economics.
Previous to her work for the OPA, 
Dr. Syckle taught at various high 
continued on page 3
Dr. Jones stated that it is becoming 
increasingly important for engi-
135 ASTRCs Arrive 
At Tech For Training
Last Wednesday, most of the ap­
proximately 135 ASTRC men arriv­
ed on the Tech campus to begin nine 
months of training. They will be 
formed into Company “D” with 
Capt. Thomas in command and Lt. 
Daiger as second in command. •
All of the ASTRC’s stationed here 
are from the Third Service Com­
mand. The majority are from Bal­
timore and Washington, and the 
rest come from scattered parts of 
Maryland and Pennsylvania.
ing them. Eighty-two seniors and 
one dog, “Ginger,” walked across 
the platform. Eighty-two seniors 
continued on page 3
Notice
The business manager of the Tar­
tan will pay 15c a copy or $1.00 for 
six of the following issues of the 
Tartan:
April 13, 1943 
November 23,1943 
December 7, 1943 
, June 20, 1944 
' -June 27, 1944 •
May 23, 1944 ’ '
Address the issues to the Tartan 
and leave in post office with your 
name and address.
Classes end for second term
Saturday, July 30 
Registration for third term
Saturday, August 6 
Classes begin for third term
Monday, August 8 
Classes end for third term
Saturday, September 30 
Registration for fourth term
Tuesday, October 3 
Classes begin for fourth term
Wednesday, October 4
During the two months of the 
third term, the students will com­
plete their Freshmen requirements 
by taking Mathematics, Physics, 
Geography, and History, and will 
begin their fourth term as Sopho­
mores on the regular semester plan. 
As the total fee for the third term 
has been reduced to $100, the ap­
proximately twenty-five students 
involved will have completed the 
equivalent of the normal two-sem- 
Freshman year with the usual 
cost, time, and units.
Although the new program does 
not allow for the customary vaca­
tion between the third and fourth 
term, Professor Work has announc­
ed that the students will receive a 
Christmas vacation from December 
23 until January 1, inclusive. The 
fourth term will end on January 
30, 1945.
The new program was instituted 
to eliminate partially the overlap­
ping of schedules which exists to­
day.
Electrical Honorary_ •«Admits Five Juniors
Eta Kappa Nu, the Electrical En­
gineering Honorary, initiated five 
new members at Carnegie Union on 
Friday, July 1, at 7:00 p. m. The 
initiates were:
Davis Jones 
Daniel Schacher 
Paul Castner 
Edward Thurston 
Aubrey Caplan
The initiation was presided over 
by last semester’s president, Nick 
Yaru.
At the same meeting, election of 
officers was held. The following 
members were elected officers: 
Dave Jones, President; Daniel 
Schacher, Vice President; Paul 
Castner, Treasurer; Edward Thurs­
ton, Recording Secretary; Aubrey 
Caplan, Corresponding Secretary; 
Dave Jones, Interhonorary Repre­
sentative.
Under the guidance of these new 
officers, Eta Kappa Nu hopes to 
keep things going for the coming 
college year.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE OARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 11, 1944
£dUan!i AumcUai/i
On Citienship
In a front-page editorial, the Pittsburgh Press writes: “If the battle 
on Cherbourg Peninsula or the victorious fighting on Saipan Island or the 
uphill struggle in Italy were going as badly in some respects as is the bat­
tle on the home front, we would have cause for serious discouragement.”
In spite of our repeated production records and other domestic achieve­
ments which stand out favorably, the Press* statement is quite an under­
statement, for the American people are failing in their duty. Individual 
bond sales in the Fort Pitt area are thirty-five percent short of their quota, 
the number of blood donations is shamefully small, and black markets in 
gasoline, food, liquor, and every other rationed commodity have assumed 
scandalous proportions.
The average American is not a traitor, a fifth colunmist or a saboteur. 
The reason for this failure as a homefront soldier is far more subtle and, 
in a way, far more dangerous. The average American has not yet become a 
citizen in the true democratic sense of the word.
Democracy is based on government of the people, by the people, and 
for the people, and this is only possible if each and every man of that peo­
ple is an integral part of his country, taking an active interest in all phases 
of government and society. In other words every man should be a true 
citizen, realizing that democratic government and the people form an in­
separable whole, and that, therefore, helping the government is helping 
oneself. f jj
The importance of this citizenship extends far beyond the temporary 
issues of bond sales and blood donations. In any non-democratic govern­
ment five percent of the population can rule and exploit all the others be­
cause these ninety-five pregent do not—either because of inability or be­
cause of unwillingness—take an interest in the proceedings of their own 
governnment; they “don’t know what’s going on.” This country fails to 
reach the democratic state it could achieve because, in spite of their op­
portunities, the majority of the people refuse to be bothered with the af­
fairs of their own nation. The Government cannot be by the people if 
only a small part of that people are sufficiently aware of their role as 
citizens to recognize their oneness with it. The Roosevelt administration 
has been labeled totalitarian; this is not the time to discuss the truth of 
this accusation, but if it is, then this state of affairs has been brought 
about by the failure of the great majority of the American people to be 
concerned with their own government.
Children have to be told: “Do this, and do that; it’s for your own 
good.” It seems that the average American needs such advice also, for 
he has not matured enough to be his own mentor. $o again we urge all 
of you; help yourself; buy war bonds and donate blood, and when this war 
is over, continue to look out for your own benefit by participating actively 
in every part of your government. E. A. L.
One of the Boys
Tall, Dark, and Handsome — Warren Snow
GI. Hangover
(Editorial? What Editorial? Oh, my poor aching head.)Honestly, that party Friday night was a rootin’ tootin’ lulu of an affair. When there is enough beer, mountains of good food, dancing, and bevies 
of beautiful damsels, only an introvert could help having a swell time. And since the number of introverts in Company A is quite limited, it, is safe to say that the Summer Hop was a total success, and that the only regrets connected with it are one§ involving its limited duration.The nocturnally liberated GI’s and their very attractive young ladies, wives, fiances, etc., began to stream into the Pittsburgh University Club at about nine PM and promptly started an assault upon the kegs of beer, and baskets of pretzels, potato chips and other sundry edibles. Between beers, Billy Mays and his youthful but surprisingly smooth orchestra provided a happy variety of dance music. There were both sweet tunes and hot tunes, thereby satisfying both the sedate and slightly insane elements.At midnight, intermission entertainment was ably furnished by the Burke sisters, a trio of adolescent and effervescent beauties, and four talented members of the Vera Liebau Sphool of dancing.It seemed that every one in the AST Unit was in attendance from Pfc. 
Fischer of the supply room to Major Boberg, commandant.It is only correct that the names of those individuals and organizations to whom we are all indebted for a very enjoyable evening should be men­tioned. Lieutenant Vivian Courtney, special service officer, was responsible 
for the arrangements and deserves a vote of thanks. Captain Thomas’ beer was plentiful and satisfying. The University Club was splendid in their whole-hearted co-operation, and unusually beautiful and tasty buffet sup­per. Orchids, too, to Mrs. Cooper of the United Service Organization for 
securing the services of the entertainers.__________________H. W. S.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TART AH are those of the members of ths staff; in the case of the editorial column they are thoee of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinion« of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Caraefta Iiitltit* •< TeehneUfjr, Behest«/ Park, PltUbarfk II, Pi. 
rHONI MATFLOWn MM PMONB kbinlbt Mm?
MMNVIU worn MATWMAL AOVMTIMM« ¦*National Advertising Service, Inc. ce ours ac*Met* Pmibihtn meuprtunuukx * Editor-ln*Chl«f ..............................EM. 9424
4*0 maonon av*. ncw r#*n n. Y. Business Manager........................................EM. »484CtC— • IMTM > LM »MMW • SMI hMCWM
|BUr*4 ..............I mam mum Ib St ntt*k»f> Pm« OMm ulw tk* Art M»refc I, 1171,Pakhtkfl wwklr flvrtac MkMl jw. Vol k*M«*ya ki< ..V38N2 »ert*«».ItkwrlfUta Prte* •!.!• pw T**».
Editor-in-Chief ........................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor ............................................................................ P/ct Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager .......................................................................................... . Ed Friedman
Tall, dark, and handsome, with a 
winning smile and a standing gen­
uine friendliness that makes all who 
know him like him, new Beta Prexy 
Warren Snow is “one of the boys” 
who has kept the Tech campus up 
to standards well worthy of Skibo, 
in spite of trying times. “Snow,” 
as he is known about campus, is 
a high junior in metallurgical en­
gineering and looks forward to the 
great day of graduation next spring; 
that is, if Uncle Sam doesn’t call 
his way first. An active member of 
the intramural board, he has helped 
to direct intra-school athletics, in 
which he takes enthusiastic part. 
He has played on intramural foot­
ball, basketball, softball, and vol­
leyball teams, and was member of 
the freshman basketball squad.
If he had to choose a favorite from 
the long list of sports in which he 
participates, he would chose bas­
ketball, then mushball, football, and 
the rest in order, including hunting 
and fishing, which he says he likes 
even though he’s not expert “by 
any means.” Warren was an en­
thusiast for gymnastics in high 
school in Charleroi, Pa., from 
whence he hails, and still likes to 
work out on the parallel bars when 
he finds time.
His main interest in life, his fa­
vorite pastime, his ideal girl, and 
his “Beta Sweetheart” is a certain 
daughter of Skibo who is known in 
more intimate circles as “Mouse.”
New Donated Blood 
Undergoes Treatment
Although there are many people 
who have given their blood to the 
Red Cross, there are few who know 
for what specific thing it is used. 
Blood donated to the Red Cross for 
the use of our armed forces serves 
a double purpose, part being used 
on the battlefields to combat shock, 
and part being used in hospitals to 
promote the wounded man’s recov­
ery.
Blood plasma, that part of the 
blood we hear so much about today, 
is made from the liquid content of 
the blood. After being separated 
from the red and white corpuscles, 
and after being frozen and dehy­
drated, this liquid results in a 
golden powder. It is then sent with 
distilled water, needles, and tub­
ing to all parts of the world.
But the corpuscles which have 
been separated are not entirely 
wasted. After studying the vari­
ous uses of this part of the blood, 
the scientists have some practical 
suggestions for widening and broad­
ening the uses of blood derivatives, 
such as fibrin foam and fibrin film, 
used for controlling bleeding from 
small blood vessels and large veins 
of the nervous system, and for 
shortening the time required for 
brain and nerve operations; iso­
hemagglutinins, used in the typing 
of blood; Red Cell Transfusion 
Service, used for therapeutic pur­
poses; and Immune Blobulin, used 
in the control and treatment of 
acute infectious diseases.
From this information it is easy 
to see the importance of the blood 
which we give to the Red Cross.
If you want to be formal, then call 
her Julianne Stransbury, of the 
Drama school. Understandably then, 
his idea of the ideal of the weaker 
sex must be blonde, about five foot 
three, and an all around girl. Ac­
cording to Warren himself, “above 
all, she has to be a very good danc­
er.” He likes her to have lots of 
life at times, and at other times . . . 
“Well, there is a time and a place 
for everything, you know,” he says. 
“If you want to know what she’s 
like,” he sums it up, “refer to a 
certain song titled, ‘My Beta Girl,’ 
which describes her perfectly.” By 
the way, he carries her picture with 
him constantly. He would rather 
spend his time with her than any­
where else, but being with “the 
Boys” runs second.
As to music, Warren prefers the 
sweet to the hot, and likes to dance 
to a slow and dreamy ballad, al­
though he has no favorite popular 
piece. The new tunes drive him 
crazy, and in order to escape from 
them, he turns to the classical, his 
favorite “long hair” type being vi­
olin concertos. He disclosed that 
he’ll eat anything and has no fa­
vorite food, so he is bound to make 
a good husband for some lucky girl 
(identity?—no comments).
Warren plans to spend about two 
years after graduation getting a 
good sound start in engineering, 
preferably non-ferrous metallurgy 
in which he is specializing, and 
then to “settle down.” Wherever he 
decides to “settle,” he’s sure to be 
remembered in Pittsburgh, for he is 
the kind of fellow which Carnegie 
Tech is proud to call her own.
.. ACAC Minutes..
Forty-eighth Meeting 
June 25, 1944 
The meeting was called to order 
at 8 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Bokman, Mar­
cus, and Vaughan; and Miss Bloom. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publication 
Mr’ Bokman reported that there 
would be a meeting of the Publica­
tions Committee on Wednesday, 
June 26.
Athletics 
Mr. Marcus read the minutes of 
the Intramural Board meetings of 
May 23, June 9, June 16, and June 
23. He moved that these minutes 
be approved as read.
Miss Bloom moved that the min­
utes of the Intramural Board meet­
ings of May 23, June 16, and June 
23 be approved but that the min­
utes of the June 9 meeting be re­
turned to the Board for clarification.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
The list of persons on the Techni­
cal staff eligible for activities keys 
was given to Mr. Bokman for veri­
fication.
'It was decided that there would 
be no further regular meetings of 
A. C. A. C. this summer; meetings 
will be only on notification. 
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted, 
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Citcom, Co. A-12A End 
Softball Intramurals 
As League Champions
Winding up the softball series, a 
tally of the hard fought games, put 
the Citcoms and Company A-12A at 
the top of their respective leagues. 
Although the qualities of this sea­
son’s games were not as high as in 
former years, there was nothing 
lacking in the spirit of the specta­
tors and participants. Usually the 
fraternities had the pick of the 
crop, but this year they had trou­
ble putting ten men on the field.
The Citcoms were clearly the 
“class” of league I. They wound up 
the season with eight victories 
against one defeat. The situation 
was different in league II with the 
regular season ending in a three- 
way tie between the Junior Mechan­
icals, Company A-12A and Com­
pany A-22.
In the playoffs Company A-12A, 
defeated Company 22 after a bitter­
ly fought game, 7-6 on Tuesday, 
July 4. They completed their vic­
tory by »beating the Junior Mechan­
icals, 7-2, behind the five-hit pitch­
ing of Cooper. Simpson of the Jun­
ior Mechanicals pitched a good game 
but faulty fielding support at the 
wrong time ruined his chances.
LEAGUE I
TeamW.L.P.
Citcom ....................81 •.889
Sr. Chemists ...........42.667
Co. A-31 ................42.667
Co. A-12B ...............34.429
Beta Theta Pi-----...25.286
Tau Delta Phi ..........0
LEAGUE II
8.000
Co. A-12A ...............92.818
Junior Mech.............73.700
Co. A-22 ..................64.600
Delta Tau Delta .....35.375
Co. A-ll-12 ............35.375
Theta Xi...............,...09.000
On The Record
The revival of the picture “Snow 
White and the Seven Dwarfs,” Walt 
Disney’s feature production, has 
caused such a furore, that Decca is 
bringing forth the songs and music 
(all newly and superbly recorded) 
in album form. The album consists 
of:
23325 Snow White Overture 
Lyn Murray and Orchestra
Some Day My Prince Will 
Come
Lyn Murray and Choir
23326 Heigh-Ho 
Bluddle-Uddle-Um-Dum
Lyn Murray and Orchestra 23328 Whistle While You Work 
With a Smile And a Song 
Lyn Murray and Orchestra 
23328 I’m Wishing
Lyn Murray and Orchestra 
The much - in - demand “Amor” 
from the M-G-M Picture “Broad­
way Rhythm” is recorded by the 
much - in - demand Bing Crosby. 
19608 Amor
• Long Ago
Bing Crosby and John Scott 
Trotter’s Orchestra 
Two of the most requested songs 
in the Harlem Hit Parade are re­
corded by Lucky Millinder in his 
dynamic-swing style.
18609 Hurry Hurry
I Can’t See For Lookin’
Tech A. S. T. P.s Help 
Guard Stricken Area
For the first time since their ar­
rival at Tech, members of the AST 
Unit stationed on campus were call­
ed out in force to emergency duty 
on Saturday, June 24th. The catas­
trophic tornado which struck Me- 
Keesport and surrounding areas the 
evening before caused the loss of 
many lives and leveled hundreds of 
houses to the ground. These houses 
contained much of value (jewelry, 
cash, bonds, etc.) which had not 
yet been removed when the hordes 
of morbid curiosity-seekers moved 
into the stricken sections.
It was soon found necessary to 
maintain some sort of guard in the 
vicinity to prevent looting, and the 
engineer-soldiers at Tech were or­
dered out on duty. One half of Com­
pany A was driven out in trucks to 
the towns of Boston, Avondale and 
Greenok, the regions hardest hit. 
They remained on duty until eight 
o’clock, Saturday evening. Then the 
second watch relieved them and 
stood guard through the night. The 
men were fed by residents in the 
vicinity who were grateful for the 
services rendered by our soldiers.
Women’s Groups Working 
On Annual Fall Benefit
Although the Benefit for the 
Woman’s Carnegie Endowment 
Fund does not take place until Sep­
tember 22, plans and preparations 
are in full swing. Alumnae, sorori­
ties, and other organizations are 
selling chances, typing letters, mak­
ing bead lapel pins, designing 
posters, and arranging booths.
Of these groups the most recent 
to volunteer assistance is the Moth­
er’s Club of the PiKA Fraternity. In 
spite of the fact that they have tem­
porarily disbanded, the members 
have offered to sew aprons and 
make any other contributions de­
sired.
Judging from the active interest 
and the amount of work already un­
der way, the Afternoon and Even­
ing Bridge Benefit and Entertain­
ment promises to be a highlight of 
the coming season.
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
Six-Week Sculpture 
Class Opened July 3
Last Monday, July 3rd, the win­
dows on the basement floor of Fine 
Arts (directly across from the Can­
teen) were thrown open and the 
voices of excited high school stu­
dents could be heard as they pound­
ed on wire armatures in preparation 
for their first sculptural portraits. 
Their course, like the regular sum­
mer course, is scheduled for five 
days a week for six weeks. During 
this time many curious persons will 
hear the sound of total bliss and 
look enviously into the basement 
room filled with classic plaster casts 
and thirty-two summer sculpture 
students. Many will wonder what 
is going on there and how the idea 
ever started. To answer these ten­
tative questions, a brief history is 
necessary . ,. . On Christmas day, 
1935, Professor J. B. Ellis, head of 
the sculpture department, sent ten 
letters to ten persons in Pittsburgh. 
These letters explained an attempt 
to educate high school students in 
sculpture. He pointed out the ad­
vantages of being able to pay a frac­
tion of the tuition for ten outstand­
ing students who otherwise might 
not be able to attend. In response 
to his ten appeals, six people re­
sponded; and thus six more students 
were able to attend the summer 
classes ... As the years have pass­
ed, the number of Summer Santas 
(as they were appropriately called) 
increased until, in this summer of 
’44, there is the largest group ever 
to attend sculpture. The number is 
now thirty-two students.
$3.00 per 
Month
The Graduation Procession
Dr. Jones Delivers Address
Dr. Van Syckle
continued from page 1 
schools in Massachusetts. She has 
also instructed at Plattsburgh State 
Teachers College, Syracuse Univer­
sity, the University of Kentucky, 
and Iowa State College. Dr. Syckle 
has been a research worker in the 
Family Economics Division, Bureau 
of Home Economics, United States 
Department of Agriculture.
Consumer economics has been Dr. 
Syckle’s main interest and subject 
for instruction. She has published 
numerous worth-while articles on 
the subject.
Escorted by a color guard, the Seniors march to the Sylvan Theater.
Graduation . . .
Continued from page 1 
received their bachelor’s degree. In 
addition, a professional degree was 
presented to Mr. Alfred Watson, and 
Master’s degrees were awarded to 
Benjamin G. Marcin and Bartlett 
R. Price. Mr. Martin B. Neuworth 
was presented a Doctor’s degree in 
Chemistry.
The entire assembly then joined 
in singing the Carnegie Tech Alma 
Mater.

---------------------------------------------------

4THL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 11* 1944
in Kltaki i i i
Here is more info about Tech men 
in Khaki after a prolonged absence 
which can be explained by the heat 
and the lack of news . . .
. . . Still more fighter pilots 
from the Keystone State and Car­
negie Tech in special soon will be 
on their way to join other Pennsyl­
vanians in the battle skies of the 
world.
In a brief but impressive cere­
mony at Foster Field, Texas, this 
month, Aviation Cadets swapped 
their title of “Mister” for “Sir” and 
pinned on silver pilot’s wings and 
bars of a second lieutenant or flight 
officer.
Among those graduated was 
Charley Sanford, 21, who attended 
Carnegie Tech from ’40 to ’43 . . .
. . . From the Blytheville, Ar­
kansas Army Air Field comes word 
that John Chesley, who received
his B. S. from Carnegie in 1942 has 
been commissioned and awarded 
the silver wings of a military pilot 
at graduation exercises at the Ad­
vanced Twin Engine Flying Train­
ing School there.
Prior to pilot training Lt. Chesley 
was in the Corps of Engineers, with 
ten months active service with the 
Engineers from October 1943 to 
January 1945 . . .
Lieutenant Stanley B. Lord, a C. 
I. T., who would have graduated in 
June, 1944, and has been stationed at 
Blytheville Army Air Field in Ar­
kansas will soon be transferred to 
Maxwell Field, Alabama, where he 
will be flying B-24’s.
. . . Aviation Cadet Richard P. 
Lindgren was recently transferred 
from the Naval Air Station, Bunker 
Hill, Indiana, where he completed 
his primary flight training, to the 
Naval Air Training Center, Pensa-
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Blade from Pure Whole Milk for only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
By Jerry Brickman
cola, Fla., for intermediate train­
ing. Upon completion of the inten­
sive course at the “Annapolis of the 
Air” Cadet Lindgren will receive 
his Navy “Wings of Gold” with the 
designation of Naval Aviator, and 
will be commissioned an Ensign in 
the Naval Reserve or a Second Lieu­
tenant in the Marine Corps Reserve. 
Before entering the naval service, 
Dick attended Carnegie for tw(5 
years where he was a member of 
the varsity ice-hockey, tennis, and 
soccer teams.
. . . And now for all of you who 
have been wondering about Tech 
boys who have recently left for the 
service. Here is a rather abbreviat­
ed list of the men according to their 
fraternities: *
Beta Theta Pi: Bob Whiteside, 
Navy; Bob Ambrose, Navy; Bob 
Booth, Royal Canadian Navy; Bruce 
Carlock, Army Air Corps; Marshall 
Davis, Navy; Tom Hurst, Army; 
Ed Resler, Navy; Scout Evers, Navy; 
Art Naylor, Navy; Jim Stone, Navy; 
Howard Palmer, Army; Ken Welch, 
Navy; John McTigue, Navy; Craig 
Smith, Navy; Bob Riddell and Bob 
Wright, probable commission in 
Navy, advanced radar.
Beta Sigma Rho: Eugene Daniels, 
Navy; Jerome Jacobs, Army; Mau* 
rice Mednick, Navy; Howard Gart­
ner, Army; Arthur Ross, Army; Al­
vin Pollock, Navy; Lee Daniels, 
Navy; David Shedroff, Navy; Jack 
Hoenig, Army; Gilbert Stein, Army; 
George Sherman, Army; Donald 
Foreman, Army; George Marck, 
Army; Milton Daniels, Army; Nor­
man Apell, Army; Robert Tankle, 
Navy; E. Robert Marcus, Navy; 
Dean Hirschfleld, Navy; Milton Ru- 
dick, Army; Sanford Gottesman, 
Army; Paul Berko witz, Army; 
Laurence Shutzer, Navy; Joseph 
Schlaffman, Army; Walter Ellman, 
Navy; Jerome Hahn, Navy; Mar­
shall Nurenberg, Navy; Philip Birn- 
baum, Navy; Stanley Siegel, Navy; 
Jay Fine, Navy; Milton Friedman, 
Navy; Seymour Corwin, Navy; Rob­
ert Abelson, Navy.
Delta Tau Delta: John Dorfman,
Navy; William Gorog, Navy; James 
Kommer, Navy; Albert Kuentz, 
Army; Richard Steffee, Army; 
George Steiner,Navy:Theodore Dra- 
bers Army; John Foley, Marines; 
George Jackson, Navy; John John­
son, Army Air Corps; Richard Lap- 
ham, Army; William McGill, Navy; 
Lester Wahrenburg, Army; Earl 
Baerelein, Army; Joseph Latorre, 
Navy; Samuel Duff, Navy; Jerry 
O’Brien, Navy; William McShane, 
Army; Theodore Gazda, Navy; Jo­
seph Lange, Navy; Merle Wolff, 
Navy; John Wolff, Navy; Robert 
Charpie, Army; Ernest Sandberg, 
Army; Ernest Brown, Army; Jo­
seph Urban, Army; Delbert Walton, 
Navy; John Krummell, Navy; Fred 
Brown, Army; Paul Christenson, 
Navy; Warren Arnett, Robert du 
Biel, Lawrence Montgomery, Ed 
Sweeny, William Vogts, John 
White, John Murray, David Culp, 
Harold Frederick, Richard Lind­
gren, Arthur Markus, Edmond 
Mehl, George Miller, Willis Thomp­
son, Robert Tidd, Paul Weber, Rob­
ert Smith, Rex Stevenson, George 
Van Nort, Cal Oakes, and John 
Withrow and Donald, both killed in 
service.
Kappa Sigma: Ralph Simon,
Navy; Phillip Gillespie, Navy; Phil­
lip Malenock, Navy; Nick Winkler, 
Navy; Dick Sherman, Navy; Dick 
O’Fell, Army.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: A1 Gan- 
schow, Army; Dick Bingham, 
Army; Bill Bickerstaff, Army; 
Charles Busch, Army; Everett Call, 
Army; John Connolly, Navy; John 
Connor, Navy; A. A. Corey, Army; 
Frank Crowe, Army; Charles Dun- 
fee, Navy; Gerald DuroUx, Army; 
John Fleck , Navy; John Fritz, 
Navy; Rodman Greene, Army; Fred 
Kelsey, Coast Guard; William King, 
Navy; Perry Culver, Marines; Hugh 
McKean, Navy; Archie Connoly, 
Navy; Bob Mahaffey, Army; Jack 
Oats, Army; Clark Palmer, Army; 
Kempton Roll, Navy; Phil Rofe, 
Army; Dick Feckinger, Army; Mar­
ling Seeman, Navy; Grey Smith, 
Navy; Don Snyder, Army; A1 Sul­
livan, Army; A. Stospy, Army; Ed 
Warner, Army; Bob Blake, Army; 
A1 McClung, Army; Larry More- 
man, Navy; Jack Kline, Army; L.
Carlson, Army.
Tau Delta Phi: Gerry Abelson, 
Army; A1 Sher, Navy; Leon Levy, 
Navy; “Bud” Yorkin, Navy; A1 Pos- 
ternak, Navy; Dave Sapper, Navy; 
Marty Zanger, Navy; Leonard 
Chotiner, Marines; Bill Cohen, 
Navy; Ed Sunshine, Navy; Sher­
man Cohen, Navy; Stan Smith, 
Navy; Sandy Belkin, Navy; Art 
Elias, Army; Irv Oppenheim, Army; 
Martin Miller, Navy; Bill Glad­
stone, Navy; Milt Perloff, Navy; Bob 
Shapiro, Navy; f Sid Greenswag, 
Army; Hank Hanish, Army.
Theta XI: Bob Hafler, Bill Kolb, 
Hank Germsky, Charles Perot, 
George Royer, Dan Kahl, Fred 
Winnd, A1 Olejarz, Arch Theib, Ray 
Klawuhn, Bob Lewis.• \
ASTRP
continued, jrom page 1
The course, which will be similar 
to the old basic engineering course 
given under the ASTP, started 
Monday after uniforms were issued. 
Five days a week, Monday through 
Friday, will be devoted to class, 
work, while military drill will be 
given on Saturday. Besides, the 
boys will take part in activities such ¦ 
as intramural athletics and the 
3302nd unit band.
When the nine months of study­
ing are finished the ASTRC will re­
port to an army camp for regular 
basic training. After completion of 
this training, those who had good 
school and military records may be 
sent back to take an advanced 
ASTP course. Although the actual; 
number of ASTP students at pres-j’f 
ent is small, there is an excellent ¦ 
chance that many will return top! 
complete their advanced training, 
since the ASTP will be formed en­
tirely from the Reserves in the fu­
ture.
The 17 year olds, who will be 18 
in about 8 or 9 months, are placed 
on the reserve list. They receive no 
pay until they are put on active 
duty, but receive an education.
In the time that the present re­
serves are here, there will probably 
be no new ones sent to Tech, so that 
the total number will stay about the 
same.
Have a Coca-Cola = As you were
...a way to relax on a battleship
Have a “Coke” is a phrase that’s regular Navy lingo for being 
friendly. It’s a signal that spells out We are pals, aboard a battle- 
wagon as ashore. From Atlanta to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola is 
spreading the custom of the pause that refreshes,—has become 
a symbol of happy comradeship in many lands.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
It** natural for popular name* 
to acquire friendly abbrevia­
tions. That’* why you hear 
Coca-Cola called "Coke".
