lu
Jjg, c a rn e 5¡FD XA N
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. JHL JlRk» JHL JÊÈbm «JL.
Crantz Heads 
S’n’S Board
The Scotch and Soda club held 
its final meeting of the year last 
Friday as Jim Boyce, chairman of 
the executive board and business 
manager of the club, turned over 
the chief executive’s position to 
Dave Crantz, newly-elected chair­
man of the board.
Business manager Boyce an­
nounced that financially the club’s 
presentation of Rock ’n’ Miot had 
lived up to all expectations, in­
creasing the $1600 working as­
sets 100%.
As it is the policy of the club 
the assistant business manager 
automatically succeeds to the po­
sition of business manager the fol­
lowing year, Dave Crantz will 
also handle the finances ior the 
next show.
The other members of Crantz’s 
executive board are James Mc- 
Giffin, Danny Franks, Jack Drier, 
Richard Hoch, Ruth Pivorotto, 
Bert Pollock, and Peggy Will.
Dave Crantz, junior in the de­
partment of drama, was a vital 
part of the production of Rock ’n 
Riot. Not only did he act, but 
he wrote the script in conjunc­
tion with Ernie Motyl, and helped 
Jim Boyce on the financial end.
Dave, a local boy, entered the 
Fine Arts college in the fall of ’41, 
and was called to the service in 
April 1943. He spent most of his 
time in special service works, or­
ganizing camp shows. The high­
light of his career was in the 
Philippines where he entertained
10,000 GI’s waiting for ships 
home.
Since returning in April 1946, 
Crantz has played in the drama 
[Continued on page 2]
New Dean 
Appointed
The promotion of two deans 
and the appointment of a new one 
was announced by the adminis­
tration during the past week. As­
sistant Deans Jessie Yon and J.
A. Dickenson have been made 
Dean of Women and Dean of 
Men, respectively, and Mrs. Helen 
Fitzgerald Rennels has been ap­
pointed assistant dean of women. 
The first two appointments are 
effective immediately, the third 
September 1.
Mrs. Rennels is at present di­
rector of Christian Education at 
Shadyside Presbyterian church. 
She received her B. A. degree 
from the University of Iowa, 
took graduate work at Northwest­
ern university, and ha^ taught in 
the public schools of Glencoe and 
Evanston, Illinois. She is a mem­
ber of Delta Gamma sorority, 
Mortar Board, and Phi Beta Kap­
pa.
The new assistant dean is the 
daughter of Chancellor Rufus H. 
Fitzgerald of the University of 
Pittsburgh and the widow of 
Charles H. Rennels, Jr., of Evans­
ton, Illinois, who died in service 
with the Medical Corps in 1942.
Kiltie Band Plans 
Many Activities
The Kiltie Band is miaking 
preparations for one of its big­
gest seasons in 1947-48. Ten days 
after the opening of the fall sem­
ester the band will make its first 
appearance at the West Virginia 
Wesleyan game in Forbes field. 
It will be present at all games of 
the season including the two 
games played away from Pitts­
burgh.
In order to be well prepared for 
' such a season, it is necessary to 
contact and organize the band 
personnel as far in advance as 
possible: Plans are now being 
considered for a pre-registration 
rehearsal week, and a complete 
roster and mailing list will be 
necessary to keep members in­
formed of future plans. For this 
reason the management is asking 
that all past and prospective 
members file completed applica­
tions for membership in the 1947- 
48 band before the end of this 
semester.
Application blanks will be 
available in the office of the Dean 
of Men and should be returned to 
the band manager via CIT post 
office box No. 260. All those inter­
ested are urged to file applica­
tions immediately.
George Marshall Elected 
Student Council Head
George Marshall
Library Fines
Library lines are now ten 
cents a day for non-reserv- 
ed books and twenty-five 
cents an hour for reserved 
books, up to a maximum of 
four dollars per item. The sole 
purpose of this increase in 
fine rates is to make scarce 
material available to a larger 
portion of the student body.
WCIT On Air 
In Summer
At ten P.M. this Friday WCIT 
will conclude its broadcasting ac­
tivities for the semester. WCIT 
will resume operations next sem­
ester on a two-hour schdule. The 
entire two hours will consist of 
uninterrupted music and will be 
called Design for Study. The first 
hour will be made up of light 
classical and semi-popular music 
plus a little popular swing and 
jazz. The latter hour will be a 
continuation of the Classic Hour 
in its present form.
This fall WCIT expects to re- Z"'1 Ayi ppm pu f
sume its full broadcasting sched-
ule. The Morning Clambake and Tfplil Atthe early evening, live programs A Ut llClu .rm.1,
will return to the air after a sum- IVTfWfïllf*mertime pause for station reno- 0^1 Id
vation. The staff of WCIT has al- On Sunday afternoon, May 25,
ready started expansion of sta- five hundred and twenty-nine stu-
tion facilities. WCIT intends to dents from the Colleges of Engi-
reward the loyalty of its listeners neering, and Fine Arts, and Mar-
by providing smoother program garet Morrison Carnegie College
continuity, more interesting will receive their diplomas. Be-
,shows, and, especially, improved ginning at three p. m., the grad-
reception. By association with the uation exercises will take place
Ivy Network of the Inter-colle- in the Syria Mosque,
giate Broadcasting System WCIT This is the first graduation to
will present radio programs of be held in the Mosque since the
quality superior"-to cemmefrcial ¦ outbreak of Ihe war. Thé direct- 
stations. The Ivy Network is com- ors of the colleges wdll make the
posed of the campus stations of farewell addresses to the men and
many of the large, Eastern col- women in the traditional caps and
leges. Association with the Net- gowns.
work will allow WCIT to present On Saturday evening, May 24,
the best programs produced by the Baccalaureate services will be
other colleges, as well as indicat- held in the Carnegie Music Hall
ing the abilities and spirit of at 8:00. Bishop Pardue will speak.
Tech students to the thousands of Tickets for commencement may
student listeners in the Eastern be obtained at the registrar’s of- 
Universities. fice.
Lt. Col. Bruce Buttles Made 
Head of Printing Department
Lt. Col. Bruce Buttles. Assistant 
Military Attache, American Em­
bassy, Moscow, and a former as­
sistant city editor of the Pitts­
burgh Post-Gazette, has been op- 
pointed associate professor and 
head of the department of print­
ing, effective September 1, ac-
Faculty Members Promoted
The promotion of twelve mem­
bers of the faculty has been re­
cently announced by the adminis­
tration.
Six of these are in the College 
of Fine Arts. Dr. Frederick Dori­
an, who has been with the music 
department since 1936, has been 
promoted to Professor of Music. 
Dr. Dorian received his Ph.D. 
from the University of Vienna.
Miss Oleta Albertson Benn has 
been advanced to Associaté Pro­
fessor of Music Education. She 
has a bachelor of music degree in 
education from the University of 
Louisville and a M.F.A. degree 
from CIT.
Mr. Roland Jacobi Leich be­
comes an Assistant Professor q| 
Theory and Composition. Mr. 
Leich’s degrees include a bach­
elor of music degree from Curtis 
Institute of Music, A.B. from 
Dartmouth, and a master of music
degree from Eastman School of 
Music.
Painting and Design
In the painting and design de­
partment, Mr. William Charles 
Libby, who has a B.A. from CIT, 
has been made Assistant Profes­
sor of Design. In addition, Mr. 
Samuel Rosenberg has become As­
sociate Professor of Design. Mr. 
Rosenberg holds an A.B. from 
CIT and has been on the faculty 
since 1925. Mrs. Edith Warman 
Skinner has been promoted to 
Associate Professor of Voice and 
Speech. Besides having B.S. and 
M.A. degrees from Columbia Uni­
versity, Mrs. Skinner is a gradu­
ate of the Leland Powers School 
of Speech.
In Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College Dr. Clara Emilie Miller 
was advanced to Associate Pro­
fessor of Chemistry. She received 
[Continued on page 6]Dr. Frederick Dorian
cording to an announcement by Dr. 
Webster N. Jones.
Lt. Col. Buttles graduated from 
the University of California in 
1930 and received his master of 
science degree from Columbia 
university in 1936. From 1938 to 
1940 he was a student in the grad­
uate program in printing here.
Starting his journalistic career 
as associate editor of the Western 
Grower and Shipper of Los An­
geles in 1930, he became succes­
sively manager of the Southern 
California News Bureau of the 
Christian Science Monitor; staff 
correspondent for the same news­
paper; staff writer for the Pitts­
burgh Posf-Gazette, and assistant 
city editor of the paper in 1940.
Editor Buttles exchanged his 
eyeshade for an officer’s cap that 
same year when he entered the 
Army Air Corps. He became chief 
of the Review Branch, and editor 
of the Air Corps News Letter, 
Office of the Chief of the Air 
Corps. In 1946 he was appointed 
Chief of the Propaganda branch 
and the following year assumed 
his present duties as Assistant 
Military Attaches in Moscow.
Lt. Col. Buttles has been the 
recipient of the Legion of Merit 
and the Bronze Star.
The author of many newspaper 
and magazine articles prior to en­
tering the service, he also wrote 
a book on the United States Army,
20,000 copies of which were pub­
lished during the war.
At the student council meeting 
May 9, George W. Marshall was 
elected president for the 1947 fall 
semester. Marshall, a mechanical 
junior from Homestead, is a mem­
ber of Delta Upsilon, and served 
on council last semester.
The five engineering students 
elected to council as voting mem­
bers for two semesters were: 
George Matthews, Negley Reed, 
Paul Schucker, Jr., John Seward, 
and Theodore Ulrich.
In the future all council mem­
bers will serve two semesters, but 
to stabilize the present situation, 
nine men from engineering were 
tentatively elected for one semes­
ter. These were Howard Cooper, 
John Cowan, John Ewart, Robert 
Geiger, Marvin Gustavson, John 
Johnson, David Mintz, Thomas 
Popielski, and Andrew Sterrett, 
Lewis Field was elected a non­
voting member.
From Fine Arts, Howard Dunn, 
Jo Ann Meloy, Jerome Bell, Jay 
Maratta, Emery Thurston, and 
Louis Valentour will be voting 
members, with Marie Raynal non­
voting.
Margaret Morrison will be rep­
resented on the fall student coun­
cil by Katherine Glass and Sema 
Moskovitz, with Janet Duffett, 
Mary Lou Thorpe, and Barbara 
Vilsmeier as assistant secretar­
ies.
Cano On Sale 
For Second Time 
Thursday, May 15
The second issue of Cano, Car­
negie Tech’s new literary maga­
zine, will appear on sale Thurs­
day, May 15, in Industries, Mag­
gie Murph, Fine Arts, Skibo, and 
the Faculty Lounge. The issue 
contains a highly interesting and 
entertaining group of articles, and 
will sell for only ten cents.
The first issue was an immedi­
ate success, and the number of 
issues printed was grossly inade­
quate to meet the large demand. 
Since the first issue was sold out 
almost immediately, it would bç 
well to arrive early at the points 
of distribution to be sure of get­
ting a copy.
Cano was originated to satisfy 
the need on the Carnegie Tech 
campus for an outlet for writing 
that is creative in nature. Since 
its inception, the volume of con­
tributions received by the staff 
shows the great interest of the 
student body.
In the last issue of Cano, George 
E. Schindler was introduced as 
the author of “Are Books Really 
Worth It?,” a cynical and provoc­
ative essay which has been the 
subject of much comment. He 
therefore needs no réintroduction 
in the second issue as the author 
of “Giordano Bruno,” a well-writ­
ten biographical sketch.
The only short story in the sec­
ond issue is “Suicide,” written by 
engineer John King. Mr. King, a 
sophomore metallurgist, is one of 
several engineers represented in 
this issue. His analytical and fer­
tile mind has produced an unusual 
mood and characterization.
The cleverly humorous discus­
sion of the shortening of English 
spelling called “Speling Taiks a 
Holiday” was written by a fresh­
man in the department of music, 
Robert H. Wilcox. It is a fresh ap­
proach to a popular subject, and 
the style of treatment is original 
—perhaps surprising, and ex­
tremely refreshing.

---------------------------------------------------

zTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947
the cameSipARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Telephone: SChenley 4557 
After office hours: Editor SC. 8951; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Publishes weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Advertising Manager.............Ed FriedmanCirculation Manager .......... Ivan FaigenHeadline Editor .. Camille McCulloughMake-up Editor............Harry SilvermanMake-up Assistant .......... Shirley SeinerAsst. Copy Editor .......... Bill McShaneCopy Staff .......................... Dale WrightColumnists: Carl Klahr, Marty Dorff,Jean Knee, Viera Kulamer, Nick Reed, Bob Johnson.
Editor ............................ R. C. Eschenbach
Business Manager ................. Bill Meyera
Managing Editor .......... Audrey Wilkins
News Editor .......................... Tony ArrottPersonnel Manager ........... H. Aaronson
Copy Editor ............................ Bill CohenSports Editor ........................ Pete CregutSports Assistant .................... Chuck PollisAsst. Business Managei .... Sam MosesPhotographers: Danny Franks (head), Ames Penfield, Bill Benswanger.News Staff: Doris Becker, Marty Dorff, Susan Foster, Estelle Mattes.Reporters: Bob Abelson, Fred Johnson, Sema Moskovitz, Robert H. Smith, Si Foner,Barry Rowles, Midge Teague, Bea Patterson.Cub Reporters: Ainslie Bricker, Aaron Latkin, Ange Pollis, Marjorie Powers, LoisSloan.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College Publishers Representatives, 420 Madison Ave., New York City.Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, authorized October 21, 1918.
Editor’s Armchair
The basic characteristics of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology are best displayed when a prominent member of the 
institution retires from its faculty or administration. Beyond a 
few mild cliches and conventionalized scrapings in the direc­
tion of superior ability and a job well done which are carefully 
noted in the Tartan, little notice is taken of the event. Another
cog or gear or wheel in a piece 
of machinery labeled CIT has 
(left; been removed) and will 
presumably be replaced at the 
earliest favorable opportunity.
Although we may rebel at 
this lack of human feeling, it is 
apparently integral to an en­
gineering school and cannot be 
changed without altering the 
basic nature of the whole. And 
while we do not propose to at­
tempt this hopeless task, we 
would like to assist in relieving 
the uncomfortable stresses in­
duced when the machine con­
ditions continue to operate in 
its accustomed fashion under 
Dr. Max Schoen abnormal conditions.
The retirement of Dr. Max Schoen, head of the department 
of psychology, can be safely categorized as unusual, for he is an 
extraordinary man, both as an intellect and as a person, even 
in a faculty as brilliant as the one which has been gathered 
here.
Working on 1he premise that the true human being is the 
educated man, he devoted himself fully to the creation of this 
state in his students. The standard pedagogic method of steel- 
bound intellectual disciplines, to be riveted into place at fre­
quent intervals by testing for verbatim knowledge of quanti­
ties of individual facts (“which you will need when you get out 
into industry”) was immediately abandoned. In its place was 
substituted presentation of basic ideas and principles. The his­
tory and evolution of these concepts were discussed and they 
were then evaluated with reference to carefully defined realities.
First principles were used not as points of origin but 
as destinations, and were examined in a critical, rather than
a reverent light.
Student Reactions
Students of inadequate wit (or without the willingness to 
put forth the energies required) soon found themselves sorely 
confused, and retired from active participation in his courses 
with acute mental indigestion. Those who discovered that the 
topics being discussed had already been fully covered in their 
earlier training by rigid dogmas and ideologies, given to be 
accepted without question, and who refused to re-examine them, 
spent the greater part of their studies with Dr. Schoen nursing 
the feeling of suppressed rage which one naturally feels to­
ward a trespasser.
Fortunately, the majority of Max Schoen’s students, after 
recovering from the initial shock of having to consider serious­
ly questions so basic and vital, benefited greatly from his teach­
ings. Some were activated immediately and took constant share 
in classroom and after-hours discussions. They concluded their 
work exhilirated with the fine liquid rush of warm-tingling sat­
isfaction which comes occasionally to those who are able to step 
beyond themselves for a moment, look back, and honestly note 
that appreciable progress has been made.
The remainder were somewhat confused — dazzled would 
perhaps be more accurate—and the ferment in their minds was 
somewhat slower in maturing. But the results of those brilliant, 
complex lectures are appearing. They are becoming evident in 
certain segments of campus life as well as in other classrooms, 
[Continued, on page 6]
ON THE CALENDAR
Tuesday, May 13
Dr. Watkins, 11:30 a. m. MMCC 
assembly.
Wednesday, May 14
Tennis vs Pitt, 4:30 p. m., CIT 
tennis courts.
Teknon picnic, 6:00 p. m., Frick 
park.
Student Symphony concert, 8:15 
p. m., Carnegie Music hall. 
Thursday, May 15 
Cano on sale, Skibo and Indus­
tries hall.
Thistle organizational meeting, 
4:30 p. m., Carnegie Union. 
Theta Tau banquet, 6:30 p. m., 
Royal York.
Friday, May 16
ODK initiation, 6:00 p. m., Car­
negie Union.
Saturday, May 17 
Tennis vs Slippery Rock, 2:30 
p. m., CIT tennis courts. 
Sunday, May 18 
Phi Mu Alpha banquet, Fairfax 
Apartments.
Monday, May 19
Student Symphony concert, 8:15 
p. m., Carnegie Music hall.
Scottie Starts 
Subscription Drive
The Scottie staff has begun a 
campaign to interest graduating 
students in buying subscriptions 
to the magazine as a means of 
keeping them in touch with the 
campus.
As an incentive, each issue will 
be mailed to the subscriber at the 
new rate of eight issues for $1.75. 
Subscriptions may be obtained at 
the Scottie booth in Skibo from a 
member of the staff, or by send­
ing a letter containing the name, 
address, and money of the pur­
chaser to Lee Wiley, 5035 Forbes 
street, or to the Scottie office.
Dave Crantz
[Continued from page 1]
department productions Merchant 
of Yonkers, College Widow, You 
Can’t take It With You, and Time 
of Your Life. He is also a member 
of Omicron Delta Kappa.
The remainder of the board 
helds the wealth of talent neces- 
sory to organize a production on 
a scale in keeping with the club’s 
ambitions.
Mr. Crantz said that the new 
board may select one of two more 
to the board from the club that 
the old board possibly overlooked.
On Stage
By Marty Dorff
The drama department’s final 
offering this season is an indiffer­
ent play by J. B. Prestley, entitled 
People at Sea. The plot is quite 
unexciting; furthermore, it is 
hamstrung by interminable dia­
logue. Everyone is so busy ex­
plaining what he has done or will 
do that there isn’t much time for 
any action.
Most of the interest, then, is 
focused on the delineation of the 
various characters who find them­
selves “at sea.” There is quite a 
collection of them on the ship— 
practically an actor’s paradise, in 
fact.
Because of the copy deadline, I 
was able to see only the first cast, 
which I think did a uniformly 
good job in realizing the charac­
ters. Ruth Guberman gave an es­
pecially convincing portrayal of 
a determined old lady, who might 
have come straight from a church 
social. Mary Elizabeth Kane made 
a satisfyingly sinister harpy. Lois 
Wales was quite successful in 
casting an air of freshness and 
naivete over the ingenue role. As 
a pair of dissolute artists Nancy 
Wickwire and Carl Betz gave ex­
cellent performances, charged 
with emotion and bitterness. My 
principal criticism of the cast is 
that some of the actors were in­
clined to swallow their lines. 
Thunder On the Left
Of far more interest was a pro­
duction of Thunder on the Left, 
adapted by Jean Black from a 
story by Christopher Morley. This 
delicate fantasy was produced by 
a group of students in the drama 
department and directed by Hen­
ry Weinstein last Saturday in the 
Studio Theater.
It had all the imagination that 
Priestley’s play lacked. The story 
concerns a sensitive ten-year-old 
boy who succeeds in wishing him­
self into the future, in order to 
see whether he and his friends 
will be happy as grown-ups. An 
interesting twist is given to the 
story by making the boy mature 
in body but still ten years old in 
mind. Of course, everyone takes 
him for an adult. This leads to 
scenes of real pathos as well as 
amusement. Like all good fan­
tasies, it does not seem a bit fan­
tastic when it absorbs you.
Role Especially Dicicult
The role of the boy is of espe­
cial difficulty. It calls for great 
sensitivity, imagination, and un­
derstanding; on it the success or 
failure of the whole play depends. 
Sandy Friedman, who played the 
part, did a superlative job in 
making the boy credible and sym­
pathetic. Hiis gestures, actions, in­
flections, and entire conception of 
the role carried conviction.
The role of the married woman 
who falls in love with the boy 
is no less challenging. Jane 
Hughes played it with assurance 
and subtlety, depicting the fluc­
tuating emotions of the character 
she portrays with consummate 
skill. Iris Rose and Emily Barnes 
as little girls of six and nine 
years were a joy to behold; they 
looked and acted exactly like lit­
tle girls. Anne Kennedy scored a 
comic triumph in the part of the 
maid without saying a word;
[Continued on page 6]
Student Council...
May 8, 1947. The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p. m.Those absent were: Misses Emmel,Hallas, and Petrikin; Messrs. Benya, Christenson, Franks, Kindi, Kohn, Lar­sen, and Mclntire.COMMITTEE REPORTS: Publications committee Mr. Cantini moved that the following Tartan staff be approved:Hubert Aaronson .......................... EditorEdward Friedman .. Business ManagerTony Arrott .., Audrey Wilkins William Cohen
Associate Editor . Managing Editor Personnel ManagerRobert Johnson .................. Copy EditorMotion carried.Budget committee Mr. Dismukes moved that Mortar Board be permitted to use The funds in the miscellaneous item in Their budget for a banquet.Motion carried.Mr. Dismukes moved that the Men’s Glee club be permitted to make a transfer of funds within their budget. Motion carried.Points and Keys committee Miss Knee moved that the following keys be awarded to the members of the Spring Carnival committee:Gold Jeweled .. Cloyd R. MellottGold ...................... Lois M. WilliamsSilver — Ephraim Abramson, Willis Boothe, Anthony Chirico, Richard Heck­man, Robert Kerr, George Maley, Nor-
bert Nathanson, Frederick Rousseau, Ar­thur Slagle, H. Jack South, Robert Stra- ka, Norman Zuerner.Motion carried.
Election committee Mr. Lee reported that as a result of the recent Student Council election, the following mejnbers who were elected will serve for two semesters:All the members elected from Fine Arts; all the members elected from Mar­garet Morrison; from Engineering: L. I. Field (Non-Voting), J. Seward, P. Schucker, G. Matthews, N. Reed, T. Ul­rich.OLD BUSINESS Mr. Cantini reported that the people who will be graduated in September will be in the 1948 Thistle.
NEW BUSINESS Mr. George Marshall was elected to serve as President of Student Council for the fall semester and Mr. J. K. O’­Hara was elected to serve as Vice-Presi­dent.Mr. Yorkin moved that Student Coun­cil buy the lamp, which can be used to check tickets at dances, from O. D. K. Motion carried.Mr. Marshall announced that there will be a meeting of the new Student Council next Thursday evening.Meeting adjourned at 7:50 p. m.
Respectfully 'submitted,JEAN MARIE PRICE,Secretary.
Friendly moment... have a Coke
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
The Sounding Board
Nick Reed and Bob JohnsonScarab Calls Nine At Carnival; 
Omicron Delta Kappa Initiates 11
Since we started this column 
with something roughly akin to a 
purpose in mind, we would be 
very happy if we could conclude 
by stating that we had accom­
plished that purpose in full. Ob­
viously that is not and cannot be 
the case.
But we have some definite im­
pressions which we would like to 
summarize. We have not written 
of everything we have investigat­
ed, thanks to a lack of time and 
space, so we must generalize on 
what we feel are the significant 
conditions we have found.
First and Foremost
First and foremost, we are con­
vinced that there is no simple 
shortcut solution to this problem 
of school spirit. To begin with, 
there are certain limits within 
which we must work, limits which 
will always be a factor in deter­
mining the amount of life on our 
campus.
Two of the standing problems, 
which remain rather constant 
over the years, are the forced in­
difference of the commuters and 
the personalities of the students 
who come to Tech. Both the en­
gineers and the fine arts students 
tend to draw off by themselves in 
their respective schools, almost 
entirely wrapped up in their tech­
nical specialties. (We’ll give the 
Maggie Murphs the benefit of the 
doubt and admit that they are 
pretty nearly normal.)
Temporary Problems
Two of the major problems 
are temporary and should be 
eliminated in a few years. The 
physical plant of the school is 
much too small for the present 
swollen student body. Until the 
building program is completed 
this situation will not improve.
We would have liked to go into 
the so-called “veteran problem.” 
However, even though we have 
been unable to report to you on 
it we have turned up a rather 
consistent view from many peo­
ple. The veteran, generally much 
older than the pre-war college 
student, is also a much more se­
rious student. He is here for his 
degree, and is either unwilling 
or unable to let anything distract 
his. Therefore the veteran lends 
an aura of restraint and determi-
Thirteen Students 
Enter Putnam 
Math Contest
Thirteen students from Car­
negie Tech will participate in the 
seventh annual William Lowell 
Putnam Mathematical Competi­
tion on May 24. The Competition, 
sponsored by the Mathematical 
Association of America, is open to 
all undergraduates in the United 
States and Canada.
Carnegia has entered a team of 
three, comprising Geoige Hinman, 
John Nash, and Robert Van Nice, 
as well as the following individual 
contestants: Dick Drisko, Eli
Freedman Don Harris, Carl Klahr, 
Bob Siegal, Fred Sorenson, David 
Wallace, Hans Weinberger, Harry 
Weiss, and Marty Dorff.
The examination consists of two 
three-hour parts, with questions 
taken from the fields of element­
ary and advanced calculus, higher 
algebra, differential equations, and 
advanced geometry. In addition to 
a $1000 scholarship at Harvard 
conferred on one of the top five 
contestants, numerous medals and 
monetary prizes are awarded.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, 
APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your
nation to the campus — but he is 
also a drag on school spirit. 
Difference In Philosophy
That brings us down to the 
question that is so carefully 
avoided and is often completely 
missed. There is a great differ­
ence in educational philosophies 
between Dr. Doherty and the dis­
satisfied portion of the student 
body. The students feel that, al­
though the classroom is not de­
serving of neglect, neither are ac­
tivities, and more positive support 
should be given them by the ad­
ministration. Dr. Doherty’s atta- 
tude is that the classroom comes 
first, and that what energy re­
mains may justifiably be directed 
toward extra-curricular activities. 
However, no undue exertion 
should be made to aid activities, 
for if any such activity is worth­
while student interest and sup­
port will carry it.
We have heard too many stu­
dents rant at Dr. Doherty without 
realizing this deep seated vari­
ance of motive. There can be no 
logical arguments when there is 
no agreement on the definition of 
terms in this case, the purpose of 
a college education. It seems to 
us that the best we can do as 
long as we are at Tech, is to go 
on trying to attain our purposes 
while fully realizing that the in­
stitution is attempting to realize 
those of Dr. Doherty.
Pan-Hellenie Lists 
New Rush Rules 
For Coming Year
The following regulations have been agreed upon by the Pan-Hellenic Coun­cil of Carnegie Institute of Technology for the membership selection in the fall.I. SCHEDULE
1. There will be a Non-Rush Tea, Wednesday, October 8, 1947, at 3 p. m. in the Carnegie Union.2. All sophomore women are invited to the Non-Rush Tea, but only those with a 1.8 factor may be invited to rushing functions.3. Membership selection will be con­fined to one party and a tea. Evening parties will begin at 8 p. m. and must end by 12 midnight.The schedule for these parties is as follows:Friday, Oct. 10, Kappa Kappa Gamma.Alpha Epsilon Phi.Saturday. Oct. 11, Sigma Kappa.Friday, Oct. 17, Chi Omega.Saturday, Oct. 18, Delta Delta Delta.Friday, Oct. 24, Delta Gamma.Saturday, Oct. 25, Kappa Alpha Theta.The schedule for the fraternity teas xfe as follows:Sunday, Oct. 12, 3-5, Carnegie Union, Delta Delta Delta.Sunday, Oct. 12, 5-7, Whitfield Hall, Chi Omega.Sunday, Oct. 19, 3-5, Carnegie Union, Delta Gamma, 7-9 Carnegie Union, Alpha Epsilon Phi.Sunday, Oct. 19, 5-7, Whitfield Hall, Kappa Alpha Theta.Sunday, Oct. 26, 3-5, Carnegie Union, Kappa Kappa Gamma.Sunday, Oct. 26, 5-7, Whitfield Hall, Sigma Kappa.II. PREFERENTIAL BIDDING1. The Dean of Women shall have charge of the preferential bidding.2. The fraternities shall submit to the Dean’s office, before 10 a. m., October 27, the list of girls whom they wish to bid, in order of their preference.3. The rushees must submit their pref­erence before 10:30 a. m., October 27. A preference ballot may be obtained in the Dean’s Office. If the rushees do not submit their preferences at that time, they will not be accepted until the end of a one-month period.4. The lists of the fraternities and those of the rushees will then be matched in the Dean’s Office and the results will be given to the fraternities between 4:30 and 5:00 p. m. that afternoon.5. The rushees’ bids will be mailed from the Dean’s office the afternoon of October 27, and the rushees must re­ply with a written acceptance or re­gret by 4:30 p. m. October 30.6. Open rushing shall continue from then on with no events such as parties, teas, etc.III. GENERAL RULES1. A detailed budget of all expenses is required from each fraternity the Friday following the rushing season, and must be presented to Dean Yon and Pan- Hellenic Council.2. The rushing budget of all frater­nities shall not exceed $100. No dona­tions shall be permitted.3. Every fraternity will be provided with rushing rules before rushing season.4. All flowers, real or artificial, shall be excluded, except as decorations, from[Continued on page 6]
Scarab
Philae Temple of Scarab called 
a pledge class of nine student ar­
chitects during Spring Carnival 
Call Day and the class will under­
go formal initiation at the Car­
negie . Union Friday afternoon, 
May 16. The initiation will be fol­
lowed by an informal dance at the 
“Oasis” in Mt. Lebanon. Pledges 
seen sporting the long flowing 
yellow bow ties of pledgeship 
during the past few weeks were 
Fred M. Fargotstein, junior; Nath­
an Cantor, sub-senior; Thomas J. 
Madden, sophomore; John A. Mc- 
Intire, junior; David P. Moyer, 
sophomore; Martin B. Chetlin, 
sophomore; William F. Borellis, 
sophomore; and John Hackler, 
junior.
The architects took over the 
Totem Pole Lodge at South Park 
yesterday for the annual depart­
ment of architecture outing. Fac­
ulty members of the department 
attended the picnic as guests of 
Scarab, architectural honorary, 
which sponsored the affair.
ODK
An initiation of new members 
of ODK, senior men’s activities 
honorary, will take place Friday, 
at 6:00 p.m., in the Carnegie Un­
ion. This will be followed by a 
banquet at the Webster Hall.
Those called for next year are 
Anthony Arrott, Anthony Chirico, 
David Crantz, Charles Duffett, 
Richard Eschenbach, Thomas Far- 
raphy. Wilton Hawkins, Vernon 
Neubert, Howard Palmer, John 
Seward and Theodore Ulrich.
Honorary miembers, called in 
recognition of their leadership in 
their profession are: Charles Wil­
son, president of General Motors 
and graduate of Carnegie; Roy 
Hunt, president of ALCOA and 
member of the CIT board of trus­
tees; and James Dickenson, Dean 
of Men.
Teknon
The Teknon club picnic, post­
poned last week, will be held 
Wednesday, May 14, at 6:00 p. 
m. in Frick Park. Notices will be 
posted if the weather is doubt­
ful and in case of rain the picnic 
will be held in the back dining 
rooms of the Carnegie Union.
All members are invited. Spec­
ials need not be taken, if the 
girls return to the dormitories as 
soon as the picnic is over. Those 
who signed up for last week, but 
find it impossible to come, should 
notify Marjorie Power at Birch 
Hall by Wednesday afternoon, 
dents. Then a board of twenty of 
these persons and the Cwens elects
Cwens
* On Monday, May 12, at 6:00 p. 
m., the Cwens held their initiation 
banquet in the Church of the Re­
deemer on Forbes Street. Nineteen 
sophomore women who became 
actives were Patricia Adams, Pa­
tricia Johnston, June Alday, Rose 
Mary Wertz, Mary Nettleton, 
Francis Rea, Jane Spotts, Collette 
Crawford, Lois Sloan, Elaine So­
bol, Lois Luebbe, Lorraine Prus, 
Mary Lou Bacon, Patricia Roney, 
Nancy Williams, Freda Alexander. 
Hilda Novak, Evelyn Thomas, and 
Justine Richards. ¦»
New members are nominated by 
the faculty and prominent stu-
initiates on the basis of activi­
ties, scholarship, personality, and 
leadership. Activities of Cwens 
include helping with registration 
and serving at the Dean’s recep­
tions. A Spring tea is held for the 
freshmen, and the Cwens give 
the Freshman Traditions Exams.
Mortar Board
Mortar Board held its initia­
tion banquet on Saturday, May 
10, at 6:30 p. m. in the Twen­
tieth Century Club. Mrs. Yon was 
guest of honor. Thirteen new 
members initiated before the ban­
quet were Patricia Baum, Louis 
Deane Mille, Jane Orr, Jane Dowd, 
Rosemarie Knott, Phyllis Grant, 
Eleanor Gustafson, Estelle Mat­
tes, Patricia Connor, Ruth Pivirot- 
to, Margarite Gautsch, Sophia Zub- 
roff, and Elizabeth Moses.
The election of officers has been 
held and the results are as fol­
lows: Estelle Mattes, president; 
Pat Conner, vice-president; Phyl­
lis Grant, secretary; Jane Orr, 
treasurer; Rosemary Knott, his­
torian; and Deanie Miller, editor.
Beaux Arts
The Beaux Arts Society has an­
nounced the names of the Fine 
Arts students it has called for the 
next year. The architects are: 
Irving Colburn, Howard Dunn, 
John Kelly and Seymour Tomas- 
hoff. The Painting and Design * 
men are Paul Barmelette, Francis 
Brandi, John Fischer, Charles 
Kavanaugh, Russell Kulberg, 
Eugene Meyers, Bennard Perlman 
and Andrew Warhola.
The girls in Painting and De­
sign who made the honorary in­
clude Elizabeth Gruse, Louise 
Fay, Susan Foster and Gretchen 
Schmertz, Charles Tritle, a mu­
sician, and Arlene DuMond and 
Stark Drichell, dramats, complete 
the call.
Math Seminar
Dr. H. C. Corben, instructor in 
the department of physics, will 
speak on a “Generalization of the 
General Theory of Relativity” at 
the next Mathematics Seminar to 
be held Thursday, May 15, at 4:30 
p. m. in IH 104. This talk will 
center about an independent in­
vestigation which has been car­
ried out by Dr. Corben.
Dr. Corben graduated from the 
University of Melvin, Australia, in 
1939. From 1939 to 1942 he had a 
fellowship to the University of 
California and Princeton. During 
the war, Dr. Corben worked in 
Australia, returning to the United 
States in August, 1946 to accept 
his position at Carnegie Tech.
Men’s Glee Club
Tomorrow evening the Men’s 
Glee club will hold its final gath­
ering of the year, the annual 
Spring Banquet at the University 
Club. A program, including 
awards, has been arranged for 
after the dinner, and several guest 
speakers will be present. After 
the banquet there will be a per­
formance for the nurses-in-train-
ing at the University of Pitts­
burgh, with a dance following.
Last week the Glee club sang at 
PCW in a joint concert with the 
PCW Glee Club. The affair was 
semi-formal, and the Teck group 
chose to sing its all-time favorites. 
Following the singing there was a 
closed dance for the two groups.
The Glee club’s third perform­
ance in two weeks was their 
broadcast over WCAE. The group’s 
featured songs on the radio show 
were “Meadowland,” “Climbin’ 
Up the Mountains,” and “Seren­
ade.”
Phi Mu Alpha
Phi Mu Alpha, the men’s music 
honorary fraternity, will hold a 
banquet at the Fairfax hotel on 
May 18 in honor of its eight new 
members. The new initiates to be 
honored are Robert Cardilla, Al­
bert Flower, Paul Graham, Al­
fred Kuhn, Albert Orbell, Dick 
Seckinger, Robert Skinkle, and 
Lester Trimble.
New officers elected by Phi Mu 
Alpha for the coming school year 
are: supremer councilman, Bill
Benswanger; president, Ed Miller; 
secretary, Robert Skinkle; and 
treasurer, Joseph Kennedy.
Scimitar
Scimitar, the Sophomore Men’s 
Honorary, held a meeting of all 
activities and pledges last Wed­
nesday. A new purpose was de­
signed for the organization; that 
of being responsible for part of 
Freshman Orientation Week.
Plans were made for the prep­
aration of an extra-curricular ac­
tivities pamphlet which would be 
distributed to all entering fresh­
men. The additional Plebe Bible 
would give details about all cam­
pus activities, and would list the 
time, date, and meeting place of 
each campus organization. Some 
long-range suggestions were also 
put forth about next year’s Soph 
Hop, the all-school dance which 
Scimitar co-sponsors with Cwens.
Theta Tau
The speaker for the annual 
Theta Tau initiation banquet, to 
be held next Thursday, May 15, 
at 6:30 p. m. in the Royal York 
diing room will be Park H. Mar­
tin. Executive director of the Al­
legheny Conference on Commun­
ity Development. Mr. Martin will 
speak on the Pittsburgh district 
problem.
KODAKS * CAMERAS 
Photo Supplies
Top Quality —¦
Prompt Service on 
DEVELOPING — PRINTING 
— ENLARGING
P. Miller
PHOTO & SUPPLY INC.
2004 Murray Avenue 
HA. 6883—Open Evenings
BETSY ROSS
TEA ROOM
The perfect place for meals away from school
Good Food—Low Prices—Conveniently Near 
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Qualify Cleaning - 3-Hour Service
WE OPERATE OUR OWN PLANT
Try Our Good Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
WE USE DUPONT CLEANING FLUID

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try OurHAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
CJ. S Government Inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
MADE WITH PURE WHOLI 
MILK
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boqnet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
Other Store* Downtown
The grandest smoke you’ve ever enjoyed!
It’s true, if every smoker knew what PHILIP 
MORRIS smokers know . . . they’d ALL change 
to PHILIP MORRIS.
Yes, the PHILIP MORRIS smoker really gets 
what other smokers only hope to get.. . PERFECT 
SMOKING PLEASURE.
So for perfect smoking pleasure . . . try a pack 
today!
ALWAYS BETTER—BETTER ALL WAYS
mound this year and has yet to 
give more than six hits in any one 
¡game. His fine performance, how­
ever, has ¦ been outshown by the 
nice catching job turned in by 
Leo Clougherty behind the plate. 
When Leo slips on the mask back 
of the batter, all runors would do 
well to grab hold of the base with 
both hands as Leo without a doubt 
has the best arm in the league. 
Just to make matters tougher for 
the opposing team they have a 
lineup of batters that doesn’t con­
tain a soft touch in it. All that re­
mains for T. N. T. to do is to beat 
the last place Citcoms this Wed­
nesday to cop the league title. 
Sigma Nu Leads League
Sigma Nu, despite its handi­
cap at short, Pete Cregut, has 
managed to win four games to 
date without a loss. Two weeks 
ago the Sigma Nu’s beat the
D. U’s 12-4 to climb into undis­
puted first place in the National 
League. Joe Tikey connected for 
his first homer of the year against 
the D. U.s to pace the ten hit at­
tack. The Sigma Nu’s have one
Delts, Sigma Nu, T.N.T. 
Remain In League Leads
The wonderful spring weather 
that we have been having for the 
past week has played havoc with 
the Pirates on their latest East­
ern trip and washed out quite a 
few games on the cut also. As a 
result of the unusual bad weather, 
in an effort to get all the games 
played in time to hold the play­
offs as scheduled, some teams are 
forced to take the field three days 
in a row this week.
Despite the rain some teams 
-have been able to play enough of 
their scheduled games to give a 
good idea of how the teams are 
stacked up. In the American 
League T. N. T. has yet to be de­
feated and it looks as though 
they won’t. T. N. T. has one of 
the best batteries on the cut. Tas­
so “Blooper Ball” Katselas has 
turned in five victories on the
TEAM STANDINGS
Federal LeagueWonLost
Delta Tau Delta40
Kappa Sigma31
Splits31
Dorm Combine12
Phi Kappa14
Emanons04
National LeagueWonLost
Sigma Nu40
Beta Theta Pi41
Delta Upsilon31
Theta Xi22
Alpha Tau Omega13
Pi Kappa Alpha02
A. S. C. E.05
American LeagueWonLost
T. N. T.50
Tau Delta Phi31
Beta Sigma Rho13
Sigma Alpha Epsilon12
F. P. H. A.13
Kilroy A. C.12
Citcom01
of the hardest hitting teams in 
the league plus fine pitching by 
Ralph Reich. In four games to 
date Ralph has yielded only 16 
hits, or an average of four per 
game. This week Sigma Nu has 
its last big hurdle to take. On 
Monday afternoon they must beat 
the Betas who are currently 
breathing on their neck. The Betas 
lost their first game of the season 
to the D. U.’s 3-1, but have 
steadily improved since and have 
won four games in a row. If they 
should upset the league leaders 
this week they could toss the 
lead into a three-way tie. The 
chances of them doing it, however, 
are slim.
Delts Beat Kappa Sigs
Last week featured the fall of 
the undefeated Kappa Sigs to give 
the Delts undisputed lead in the 
Federal League. The Kappa Sigs 
got off to a fast start in the first 
ining when they jumped off to a 
three run lead but were unable to 
hold the Delts in check as they 
went down to defeat 7-4. By beat-
Softball Schedule
Week of May 12th 
Tuesday
Combine vs Kappa Sigs 
Tau Delts vs Citcom 
T. X. vs D. U.
Sigma Nu vs PiKA 
Wednesday 
Citcom vs T. N. T.
Splits vs Delts
A. S. C. E. vs PiKA 
S. A. E. vs Kilroy 
Thursday 
Citcom vs F. P. H. A.
Kilroy vs Beta Sigs 
PiKA vs D. U.
A. T. O. vs T. X.
ing the Kappa Sigs the Delts have 
all but taken the league title as 
they have one more game to play 
this week. On Wednesday the 
Delts play the Splits who have 
been trounced by the Kappa Sigs 
earlier in the season so by com­
parison their chances of beating 
the Delts are nil.
As everything stand now it 
looks like the playoff next week 
will be between the Delts, Sigma 
Nu’s, and T. N. T. Since all three 
teams have excellent pitching, 
catching and hitting the playoff 
should be a close affair.
Tartan Golfers Open Season; 
Win One Match, Lose Two
Rain and cold weather delayed 
the opening of the 1947 golf sea­
son. The washed out game, which 
was to have taken place on April 
25, was played off as part of a tri- 
match between Westminster, 
Grove City, and the Skibos on 
Monday the 28th at the Pittsburgh 
Field Club. The ground was still 
somewhat wet; however condi­
tions were especially good for a 
short shooting game. Our Tartan 
mashie wielders were at a definite 
disadvantage playing two oppo­
nents at one time; nevertheless, 
they easily defeated the West­
minister squad 10%; to IVz. Kwo- 
lek and O’Brien of Tech registered 
the best scores, both shooting 81s. 
The tilt with Grove City was 
fought on even terms most of the 
way. Ironically enough, the decid­
ing match was the one between 
Stan Kwolek and John Polarinakis 
who were team mates at New 
Kensington High School in 1942. 
The latter was victorious, besting 
Kwolek on the 18th hole and en­
abling the Grovers to win by a
Polarinakis had the best score 
with an 80.
Carnegie 10 Vi 
Christenson (86) 0
Sill (88) lVz
Zuerner (93) 0
Kwolek (81) 3
Johnston (82) 3
O’Brien (81) 3
Westminster 7*4 
Salsgiver (82) 3
Paine (88) IV2
Burke (82) 3
Hay (86) 0
Führer (86) 0
Zeck (85) 0
Carnegie Sy2 
Christenson . (86) 2
Sill (88) 0
Zuerner (93) 0
Kwolek (81)
Johnston (82) 3
O’Brien (81) 3
Grove City 9^2,
Allen (89) 1
Aiton (85) 3
Book (86) 3
Polarinskis (80) 2
[Continued on page 6]

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tech Sports Scope
By Pete Cregut
The new record that Bill Beamer set in the mile last Saturday was 
something that has been expected in these parts for some time. It 
seemed inevitable that he would catch up with it some time but he 
never quite seemed to live up to expectations. The former record 
was set up by Dave Pinkerton back in 1941 when he ran the mile 
distance in 4:27.3. Bill’s time cut nearly a whole second oil that record.
Unfortunately this is the last season of running for Beamer. Al­
though he is only a junior this is his fourth year of varsity competi­
tion and he will have to change his status to that of a spectator next 
year. But he still has one meet left to try and better his record and 
it would be a fitting climax to his career here at Tech.
The meet Saturday was also 
outstanding in that it was the 
first time that Skip Ware has not 
taken the laurels in the pole vault.
Where Skip comes from (Milwau­
kee, that is) they don’t even con­
sider jumping 9 feet so he had the 
cross bar set at 11’ 4” and pro­
ceded to knock it off 3 straight 
times. The winning jump was a 
gift of 9 feet, with Skip an un­
happy third.
But even the 11’ 4” is a warmer 
for Skip. He managed to win the 
indoor AAU last year with a jump 
of 12’ 2”. Missing last Saturday 
was one of those unexplainable 
things that has kept Beamer from 
breaking the mile record before 
this.
Skip does not limit his point 
winning activities to the pole 
vault however as is evidenced by 
the fact that he also placed in the 
shot put and the discuss Saturday.
Ordinarily he has a finger in the 
javelin throw also. In addition to 
all that he manages to also ]?e the 
pepperpot for the whole team. We 
look for Skip to break a record 
next week at the intercollegiate 
meet at Beaver Falls.
Wait ’Till Next Year
This being the last issue of the 
Tartan, it is time to take a look 
at the sport picture for next year.
We discussed the football pros­
pects last week and we should 
see a big improvement in that 
corner next fall. As far as basket­
ball is concerned, we are going to 
lose only George Meyers, Tom 
Culbertson and Mel House of last 
years starters. This should mean 
a more experienced, more close­
ly knit team th?n we had this 
year and a resulting rise in the 
number of victories. The soccer 
team had nearly as many wins as 
losses and although the loss of 
Cloyd Mellot and Dick Heckman 
will be felt next year, they should 
be able to improve on their rec­
ord. The track team will be able 
to more than hold its own in dis­
trict competition.
“C” Club Officers 
Elected For Fall
Members of the “C” Club elect­
ed officers for the 1947-48 seasoon 
last Tuesday. In accordance with 
the recently drawn up constitu­
tions, four officers from three dif­
ferent varsity sports were elected.
President, C. B. Groomes, Foot­
ball Team.
V. President, Ed McGehee, Soc­
cer Team.
Secretary, Tex Shapiro, Foot­
ball Team.
Treasurer, Warren Ware, Track 
Team.
A promotional committee has 
been formed under the guidance 
of Ed McGehee, which will work 
during the summer semester 
drawing up an athletic program 
for the fall. Those who volunteer­
ed for the task are: Les Wahren- 
burg, Stan Schiller, Larry Maley, 
Ed McGehee, Bobby Williams, and 
Otto Abraham.
Varsity lettermen are asked to 
watch the bulletin boards for an 
announcement regarding the next 
meeting. The “C” Club needs your 
support — that also concerns bas­
ketball lettermen who have at­
tended meetings only very spar­
ingly. It is believed that the “C” 
Club has the makings of a very 
fine and strong organization, and 
you undoubtedly will be hearing 
a great deal about its activities in 
the summer and especially during 
the fall.
Skip Ware
Tech Beats Gators 
Beamer Sets Pace
With Bill Beamer paving the 
way, the Carnegie Tech track 
team crushed Allegheny in the 
Skibo Bowl last Saturday, 72-54. 
The victory was never in doubt 
as the visitors were able to gar­
ner only 1 first in the track events.
The meet was highlighted by 
the running of Bill Beamer in the 
mile race. He had no competition 
as he set a new track and school 
record by completing the distance 
in 4:26.5. Individual scoring hon­
ors for the day went to Roemer of 
Allegheny with three firsts in the 
shot put, discus and javelin 
throw. Cassler took honors for 
Tech with a win in the 100 and 
220 yard dashes.
The winners for the day were: 
100 yd. dash—Cassler; 220 yd. 
dash-Cassler; 440 yd. dash — 
Kindi; 120 yd. low hurdles—Ber­
ner; 120 yd. high hurdles—Kru- 
per, 880 yd. run—Dorman; One 
mile run—Beamer; Two mile run 
—Rotzler; Shot put — Roemer; 
High jump — Reihl; Discuss — 
Roemer; Pole Vault—Stone; Broad 
jump — Berner; Javelin throw — 
Roemer.
Editorial
[Continued from page 2] 
where fundamental issues are un­
expectedly questioned with a 
forcefullness and penetration 
which bears the strong stamp of 
their genesis.
On a less abstract basis, Dr. 
Schoen further fulfilled his obli­
gations as a member of the faculty 
by active assistance to student ac­
tivities as a lecturer, speaker on 
WCIT forums, and as a frequent 
and much-valued writer for the 
Carnegie Technical. And despite 
high position, he was constantly 
available to his students, serene 
in the pipe-smoke comfort of a 
bookcase-enclosed swivel chair. 
The visiting student usually found 
that whether his problem per­
tained to a quiz graded too low 
(in which case Dr. Schoen would 
convince him that the mark was 
really more than the actual worth 
of the bluebook), a personal dif­
ficulty, or a child of the student’s 
private intellection, the man in 
front of him was ready with good 
counsel.
Perhaps Dr. Schoen’s ultimate 
aims at this school were not en­
tirely realized, and that fact as 
such may be disquieting to him. 
But as a human being who gave 
invaluable service to his fellows, 
Dr. Schoen can count his years lit 
Carnegie Tech as successful to a 
gree which few men attain, no 
matter what their field of endeav­
or, or their definition of this im­
palpable, and personally indeter­
minable, measure of living.
H. I. Aaronson.
CrantzHe dsS ’BoNCt
BOTH THE FIBER-SEALED 
WRIGKWDnSON 
DAVIS CUP
AMD THE
wDSApiKAlPAP 
tMycvanG gNBihyC
HAVE BEEN ^LAYED FOR.
YEARS BY 
THE BEST.'
"STEP UP"
YOUR HITTING POWER
These famous rackets are cold- 
welded of choice northern aah 
— with special throat rein­
forcements of tough fiber to 
give this “shock zone” extra 
strength! Both are made by 
SPALDING. At your dealer’s.
11-ply Lamination
BOTH MADE BY SPALDING
Bill Beamer
Women Riflers 
Take 2nd in NRA
Each and every year, the Na­
tional Rifle Association of Ameri- 
ica conducts intercollegiate rifle 
postal matches for women of 
many of the larger colleges and 
universities in the U. S. Our girls 
made a great showing taking sec­
ond place in the team matches 
with a score of 2426, and were 
awarded Bronze Medals. Only 
Penn State bested the Tartan la­
dies with a team score of 2439. 
Ten girls fired for each team with 
the five highest scores counting 
for the team record.
In individual matches, Isabel 
Miller of Tech garnered 6th place 
with 486 points, Olive Gallagher 
came in 8th with 484 and Carol 
Kirch 10th with a score of 482.
WAA Holds 
Award Dinner
On Thursday, May 8th, the 
Women’s Athletic Association he 
held its annual Awards Banquet. 
Plans were announced for next 
years program. Board members 
are: president, Joan Lovue; vice- 
president, Peggy Gautscnr; sec- 
retary-treasurer, Jo Ann Meloy, 
Dance Club president, Mary Ann 
Rodes; and Dee Belgium, Diana 
Kutchukian, Dot Romito, and 
Elaine Sobol.
Peggy Gautsch reported at the 
banquet on her trip to the Wom­
an’s College of North Carolina for 
the conference of the Athletic 
Federation of College Women, at 
which she represented Carnegie 
Tech. She urged further aware­
ness by the W.A.A. of its part in a 
nation-wide collegiate movement 
and further use of its membership 
in the A. F. C. W. in solving 
problems of this campus.
Those honored at the banquet 
as awardees this year were Joan 
Lowe, Peggy Brown, Audrey Wil­
kins, and Marian Schwartz, who 
receive the green blazer for 150 
hours participation; Mary Ann 
Rodes, Magdalene Loya, Lois 
Brunn, Joan Lowe, Peggy Brown, 
Audrey Wilkins, and Marian 
Schwartz, who receive the plaid 
“C” for 100 hours; and Dot Ro­
mito, Elaine Sobol, Margery Say­
lor, Trusje O’Reilly, Dot Tatter - 
sal, June Haskell, Mary Beth Ra- 
pach, Sue Linderman, Lynn Wal­
lace, and Imogene Grove, who get 
plaid numerals for 30 hours.
I’S WEAR
5872 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
ONE OF ARROWS STYLE SCOUTS, 
DISGUISED AS rA HADDOCK . » -
almost dropped his telescope 
when he saw the riot of well- 
bred stripes at the Henley 
regatta in England.
He caught the next plane 
back and soon had some 
brand new patterns based on 
these cool, summery English 
stripes; patterns which were 
promptly put into a superb 
line of Arrow ties.
For the perfect summer tie 
of wrinkle-resistant wool- 
rayon fabric, buy an Arrow 
Henley today! Just $1*
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947
Student Conference Committee 
Discusses Items of Interest
The final Student Conference 
Committee dinner meeting of the 
year proved to be the most suc­
cessful.
In honor of the occasion, Presi­
dent Doherty invited Provost 
Smith, and Deans Yon and War­
den to join the group of student 
leaders for the evening’s discus­
sion. The visiting administrators 
apparently provided the catalyst 
needed to change the complexion 
of what is normally a rather sol­
emn affair. For as soon as Dr. 
Doherty had solvsd the conven­
tional problem of seating his dif­
fident guests, conversations began 
which continued uninterrupted 
through the dinner.
The meal itself, which con­
formed well to the President’s 
usual high standard of hospitality, 
was crowned with a dessert of 
strawberry shortcake, which had 
been permitted to stand just long 
enough to allow each layer to be­
come permeated with the richness 
of whipped cream and fresh fruit. 
It completed an excellent job of 
putting the guests in the mood for 
comfortable thinking and conver­
sation.
Despite the somber mood nor­
mally imparted to these gather­
ings by dark suits, a painting of a 
dreary Pittsburgh industrial slum, 
and a reserved floral centerpiece, 
the small talk was lively. E. D. 
Smith held forth on small boating 
with the Citcom representative, 
Herbert Weiss; Dr. Doherty spoke 
enthusiastically about Rock ’n 
Riot, and Dr. Warden admitted 
the excellence of the May issue 
of the Carnegie Technical.
After the diners had reluctant­
ly surrendered their shining des­
sert plates to the waitresses, Dr. 
Doherty opened the discussion 
with a report of action taken on 
previous S.C.C. suggestions.
Fine Arts Policy
The first of these dealt with the 
supposedly official Fine Arts pol­
icy of discouraging its students 
fromj participating in extra-cur­
ricular activities. Dr. Doherty re­
ported that Dr. Johnstone, Di­
rector of Fine Arts, had disagreed 
strenuously with the Conference 
Committee and offered in support 
of his views a list of students who 
had been heavily engaged in ac­
tivities. Dr. Johnstone said that 
their work was encouraged by 
the faculty, and that all of them 
had obtained excellent factors.
Several engineers then ques­
tioned the value of so restricted 
a list and cited evidence to dis­
prove its conclusions. Mr. Boyce 
(Scotch and Soda) commented 
that the Fine Arts curriculums de­
manded almost all of the stu­
dents* time, and that each student 
had to evaluate activities for him­
self. If he decides that certain of 
them will be of value, then he 
must necessarily neglect a portion 
of his work — and to that extent 
the faculty attitude is justified. 
However, to the best of his knowl­
edge, Boyce said positive action
Golfers Win
[Continued from page 4]
Davis (89) 0
Telenson (88) 0
Geneva Golfers Beat Tartans 
Winning four out of the six in­
dividual matches, the Covenanter 
golf team score an 11 to 7 tri­
umph over the Skibos on the 
Blackhawk Public course at Beav­
er Falls. Davidson of Geneva was 
low scorer with an 81.
Carnegie 7
Christenson 2
Kwolek 0
Johnston 1
O’Brien Vz
Zuerner V4
Dean 2Vz
Geneva 11
Morrow
Davidson 3
Luce 2
Firestone 2 M
Haddad 2Vi
Bell _ !» C Vz
has been taken in only a few of 
the worst cases.
Burden Wanted 
When Dr. Doherty was asked 
about the apparently overlarge 
burden of the Fine Arts students, 
he replied that the students seem­
ed to want it and are not com­
plaining. They objected, however, 
to the early closing of art studio 
and theater. The Provost added 
that since much of their work 
must necessarily be done in a 
group, spare time is restricted.
After several more students 
from the other two colleges had 
discussed the value of activities, 
Mr. Boyce concluded the discus­
sion with a plea that people try 
to understand the Fine Arts stu­
dents instead of attempting to 
change them.
Dr. Doherty reported that the 
parking situation was still con­
fused. The faculty has told him 
that they need all of their park­
ing space, student statements to 
the contrary. He is now having 
the matter checked independent­
ly. Now, were there any new 
things which the students wished 
to discuss?
Other Problems 
Well, there is the problem of 
inadequate lighting in classrooms.
Being corrected as soon as ma­
terials arrive.
How about computing machines 
for the management engineers?
Again, material shortages. And 
their curriculum is being revised 
to eliminate much of this clerk- 
type work.
Er-er-how about those Wom­
en’s Dorm Regulations? They 
seem ridiculous and very silly.
Mr. Jack Guyol of Men’s Dor­
mitory Council brought up the 
last question. That was a mistake.
Mrs. Yon opened the counter­
attack with the statement that the 
regulations were made by the 
members of Women’s Dorm Coun­
cil. She then passed the ball to 
Miss Hipp, who moved it over 
the scrimmage line with the re­
mark that the regulations are 
made in order to make the at­
tainment of upperclass status de­
sirable. They are, however, being 
relaxed. Freshman girls will be 
allowed to have radios, and for­
ty-five minutes of free time in 
the evening.
Retreat 
Mr. Guyol began to retreat. 
Also the house mothers aren’t 
so bad (Hipp).
Perhaps the men’s dorms and 
fraternities should have house 
mothers (Dean Yon).
That’s why the women must 
have rules — the men have none. 
(Hipp again).
Mr. Guyol’s defeat had passed 
into the rout stage, but the pur­
suit was relentless and quite with­
out mercy.
The parents like Carnegie 
Tech’s supervision. And if it were 
removed, there would be difficul­
ties, because the boys don’t al­
ways look after the girls. Also, 
Ohio State and Penn State have 
even stricter regulations.
The representative from the 
Men’s Dormitory Council began 
to look unhappy. He received the 
sympathy of former Tartan editor 
Dick Eschenbach, another ex-re­
former of Women’s Dormitory 
Regulations.
Last Point 
The last major point to be 
brought up was made by Provost 
Smith. He suggested that next 
year one of the S.C.C. meetings 
be held with no one present from 
either administration or faculty. 
Dr. Doherty approved and ap­
pointed Mr. Aaronson as chair­
man of that meeting, for which 
arrangements will be made at 
some future date.
The meeting was concluded at 
8:00 p.m. with unanimous agree­
ment that every effort should be 
made in the future to obtain more 
of the students’ complaints and 
suggestions for the Committee so 
that it might function with in­
creased eff«ctiven»Ki.
ASCE Members
ASCE members are request­
ed to look at the list of of­
ficer nominations on the civil 
engineering board. Elections 
will be held on May 21 and 
22.
Finalists Seek 
Design Award
Four students of the department 
of architecture have been selected 
as finalists in the design competi­
tion for the John Stewardson Me­
morial Scholarship.
This scholarship of $1000 for 
the study of architecture in the 
United States or abroad was won 
by Carnegie Tech students in 1916, 
1922, and 1927. In 1933 Henry A. 
Janrl won for CIT and the fol­
lowing year James A. Mitchell 
followed suit. Mr. Mitchell, now a 
practicing Pittsburgh architect, 
was one of the architects award­
ed the commission to design the 
1500-bed Veterans Administration 
hospital to be erected near the 
University of Pittsburgh Stadium 
in Oakland. The last Tech student 
to win the coveted scholarship 
was Irene Von Horvath, in 1942.
John P. Schaffer, senior, and 
Lawrence C. Wolfe, sub-senior, 
were two of the four finalists 
chosen as a result of the elimina­
tion competition. Thomas J. Mad­
den, sophomore, is the first alter­
nate, and Henry B. Grant, senior, 
is the second alternate. Mr. Grant 
was recently awarded the first 
prize in the Homestead store-print 
competition.
The competition problem is the 
design of a student union and dor­
mitories for a state teachers col­
lege. The competition closes May 
24.
Thirtieth Session 
Of Summer School 
Opens This June
Carnegie Tech will hold its 
thirtieth Summer Session this 
year, the eight weeks’ session 
opening June 14 and the six 
weeks’ session on June 27. Both 
sessions close on August 9. The 
longer session is planned for un­
dergraduates and the shorter term 
for teachers working toward ad­
vanced degrees.
In the 1947 summer session, 
classes wrill be given in the de­
partments of music, painting and 
design, sculpture, architecture, 
drama, psychology and education, 
and in English, history, and eco­
nomics. Because of the regular 16- 
week semester in the College of 
Engineering and Science which is 
scheduled for this summer, none 
of the engineering and science 
subject usually offered in the 8- 
week summer session will be 
given.
Mortar Board 
Offers Award
In an effort to inspire greater 
scholastic efforts among the fresh­
men women, Mortar Board has 
announced a new scholarship 
plaque that will be hung in In­
dustries hall. At the end of each 
school year, the freshman woman 
with the highest scholastic factor 
will have her name engraved on 
this plaque.
On Stage
[Continued from page 2] 
watching her remove the dishes 
from the table was a hilarious ex­
perience.
The suporting players might al­
so take an extra bow with Henry 
Weinstein fpr one of the most en­
joyable shows of the year. It is 
a pity that only a very small seg­
ment of the campus was able to 
see this play, for it only ran for 
two performances. It is not often 
that one gets a chance to see such 
an unusual and refreshing work.
One of the busiest men on cam­
pus is Richard Corey Eschenbach, 
alias R. Eschy Cornbach, a second 
semester junior majoring in phys­
ics. Equipped compete with a 
pleasant smile and a very patient 
manner (especially with confus­
ed reporters), he arrived at Car­
negie Tech from Williamsport, 
Pa., in June of 1944, holding both 
George Westinghouse and Penn­
sylvania State Scholarships. Del­
ta Tau Delta fraternity snapped 
him up and from then on he con­
centrated on being a big activities 
man.
How To Make a Key-Chain
During his freshman year, Esch 
was a cheerleader, and played the 
French horn in the Carnegie or­
chestra and bridge in the Tartan 
office. After that, his activities 
branched out to include the Stu- 
dent-Faculty Liaison committee of 
the College of Engineering, of 
which he was chairman; editorial 
assistant on the Technical; associ­
ate editor of the Student Hand­
book during the summer of 1946; 
treasurer of Scimitar; secretary 
of Delta Skull; honor junior for 
Tau Beta Pi; Y-Cabinet; Athletic 
Board; President’s Conference 
committee; and of course, editor 
of the Tartan. This semester he 
was tapped for Omicron Delta 
Kappa and Pi Delta Epsilon, na­
tional journalisic honorary. He 
has also been an active Delt, hav­
ing been Guide of the chapter, on 
intramural teams, and on the
Faculty Promotion
[Continued from page 1] 
an A.B. degree and an M.A. de­
gree from Goucher College and a 
Ph.D., from Johns Hopkins Uni­
versity. Mrs. Doris Edna Myers 
has become Associate Professor 
of Home Economics. She holds a
B.S. degree and an A.M. degree 
from Columbia University. She 
was a member of the Home Eco­
nomics faculty from 1924 to 1927 
and rejoined it in 1943.
H&SS Promotions
Two members of the humanistic 
and social studies department 
have been promoted to Assistant 
Professors of English. These are 
Doctors Margaret Foster LeClair 
and John Augustine Hart. Dr. Le­
Clair received her B.A. from Ohio 
Wesleyan University and M.A. 
and Ph.D. from Ohio State Uni­
versity. Dr. Hart received his B.A., 
M.A., and Ph.D. irom Yale. Both 
he and Dr. LeClair joined the staff 
in 1946.
In the College of Engineering 
and Science, Dr. James Stark 
Koehler has been advanced to 
Associate Professor of Physics. 
Dr. Koehler holds a bachelor of 
education degree from Oshkosh 
State Teachers’ College in Wis­
consin and a Ph.D. from the Uni­
versity of Michigan. He has been 
at Carnegie'Tech since 1942. 
Mathematics
Dr. Alfred Schild has been pro­
moted to Assistant Professor of 
Mathematics. He was born in Is­
tanbul, Turkey. Some of his un- 
der-graduate work was done at 
University College in London 
from 1938 to 1940. In 1946 he re­
ceived his Ph.D. from the Uni­
versity of Toronto where he had 
previously obtained B.A. and M.A. 
degrees. While at Toronto, he was 
a staff fellow in Applied Mathe­
matics. Dr. Schild came here in 
September of 1946. A one-year 
leave of absence has been granted 
to him. During the academic year 
of 1947 to 1948 he will be in resi­
dence at the Institute for Ad­
vanced Study at Princeton where 
he holds a Frank B. Jewett Fel­
lowship, founded by American 
Telephone and Telegraph Com­
pany for research in the physical 
sciences. Dr. Schild plans to study 
relativistic field theories in quan­
tum mechanics.
Greek Sing teams.
Dick found it much easier to 
think of likes than of dislikes. 
Near the top of his “likes” list 
are music—especially Gershwin— 
ping-pong, bridge, and also the 
steaks they serve at Student Con­
ference dinners. After thinking 
very hard he decided that he 
didn’t particularly care for in­
structors who carry jokes to the 
bitter end, or for women’s tactics 
in arguments.
Since bridge is one of Dick’s 
pet hobbies, he spends a lot of 
time on it. With Boy Charpie, he > 
won the school tournament this 
spring.
How Not To Study
Along with his activities and 
hobbies, Dick has somehow sand­
wiched in time to make an aver­
age of 3.49, which, he claims 
somewhat sadly, is making a per­
fect parabolic curve heading 
downward. He also spent nine 
hours a week since June ’45 work-
ing as a library assistant in the
Carnegie Library’s Technology de­
partment. At the present, how­
ever, he is working for the phys­
ics department on a research proj­
ect. ,
Esch is among the minority of 
Delts who have hung on to their 
pins, and at present he is unat­
tached. Telephone—SC. 8951.
His plans for the future include 
going to school this summer, then 
working for Westinghouse in their 
Research Laboratories at the Ed­
ucational Center in Wilkinsburg, 
at Bloomfield, N. J., and at Bal­
timore until the fall of ’48. He ex­
pects to get his B. S. in physics in 
January ’49, and hopes to get his 
M. S. in June of the same year. 
After that he will sleep for a 
month, and then take a job with 
somebody, somewhere.
Pan Hellenic Rules
[Continued from page 3]
rushing. Sponsors shall be permitted to wear flowers. At the non-rush tea, rush- ees shall be provided with identification tags and the fraternity women shall furnish their own.5. All men are excluded from rushing.6. Fraternities may invite National of­ficers and alumnae to evening parties and the fraternity tea, if they desire and if they are distinguished in some way from active members. Each frater­nity shall have but one advisor present at the non-rush tea.7. From October 10 to October 30, there will be no social contact between fraternity members and rushees Except at social functions. Fraternity women in this sense include pledges.8. A rushee should not, under any cir­cumstances, expect or accept a bid to a fraternity before October 28.9. At no time during the year shall a freshman eat at a fraternity table.10. Any fraternity violating any of the rules set up by Pan-Hellenic Council will be subject to penalty, at the dis­cretion of Pan-Hellenic Council.IV. INFORMATION1. Jackets or outfits are not to be worn by any fraternity from October 6 to October 30. Dinks with the frater­nity initials are permissable.2. Formal invitations are to be used for the teas. Each fraternity may make their own invitation for the evening party.3. Fraternity members must not con­tact rushees until after replies have been received at the Dean’s Office, Oc­tober 30.V. OFFICERS Pres., Pat. Baum.V. Pres., Betty Koester. Sec., Betty Wirth.Treas. Estelle Berenfield.
Campus Headquarters 
for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947THE CABNEGIE TARTAN7
When you graduate, you will have one of 
the finest opportunities to learn to fly ever offered young 
men in peacetime.
The Army Air Forces’ Aviation Cadet Training Pro­
gram gives you that chance. It cannot be duplicated 
anywhere at any price. Leader in new things for avia­
tion — in jet and rocket propulsion, far-ranging heavy 
aircraft, improved navigation facilities, and many other 
of the latest developments in a fast-moving field — the 
AAF can help you begin a brilliant future.
The Air Forces have reopened Aviation Cadet training 
to qualified civilians 18 to 26Vfc years of age.
Men selected for training as pilots under the 
terms of the program must be single and have 
had at least two years of college education, or 
the equivalent, in an accredited institution.
Upon successful completion of the course, 
graduates will be commissioned Second Lieu­
tenants, Army of the United States, and as­
signed to flying duty with the Army Air Forces.
Reactivation of the Aviation Cadet program is typical 
of the AAF’s continuing effort to provide selected young 
men every opportunity to earn advancement. Cadets 
who win thair wings as today’s pilots will be the same 
kind of men who, in wartime, built and manned the 
world’s mightiest air arm.
Make your plans now to get in at the start! By apply­
ing immediately after graduation, you can take your 
qualifying examinations and enter the July 1st class, 
or — if you want a summer vacation — you can take 
your examinations now and be ready to enter the 
class beginning October 15th. Further in­
formation is available at AAF Bases, U. S. 
Army Recruiting Stations, local Civil Air 
Patrol headquarters, or by writing to the 
Commanding General, Army Air Forces, 
Washington 25, D. C.
?
U. S. ARVV RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR POWER
IS PEACE POWER
Let's go f o
ISALYS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores in ihe College District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
¥ * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
QoJut V'Lanic
John, who as typical as any 
other American boy, likes to par­
ticipate in all sports, some of 
which are swimming, football, 
baseball and fishing. I once heard 
the remark that he could swim 
like a fish and also that his physi­
que is that of a well-built man. 
This Rankin boy, who is six foot 
tall and weighs around 180 
pounds, has broad shoulders and 
a smile that wins him many 
friends, especially girls.
Upon graduating from Rankin 
High, class of ’44, he accepted a 
position with the .Carnegie Illinois 
Research Laboratory, as a lab­
oratory assistant, and in the fall 
of the same year, enrolled in the 
evening classes of Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology in the Paint­
ing and Design course. Even with 
a busy schedule, he found time to 
participate in extra-curricular ac­
tivities, such as the Plaid and 
Student Council.
In March, 1945, John joined the 
United States Navy and was dis­
charged at the end of the war. In 
the Navy, John attended radio 
school and immediately after 
leaving the Navy, returned to his 
same job as laboratory assistant 
and continued with his studies.
John’s main hobby is his ’36 
Ford Roadster which will need a 
smoke control gadget this coming 
fall. When he starts out, he leaves 
a trail of smoke that can be seen 
blocks away. His sole remark, 
when questioned about it, is that 
he can’t buy the parts needed to 
remedy the situation. Saturday is 
wash day for John, polishing, 
cleaning and wiping his car from 
bumper to bumper, trying to bring 
out the hidden beauty that just 
isn’t there. But you have to give 
him credit, he keeps on trying.
We don’t know whether John 
will be with us this coming fall. 
As matters ar^ right now he is 
trying to decide whether to go to 
day school, or if at all possible 
attend one «of the many fine art 
schools in Europe. Our loss will 
be Europe’s gain and we wish him 
success in the future.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor 
Betty Ashcraft News Editor Norman Martello Associate Editors Anne Shack Cecille ZellnerPage edited by Evening School students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.StaffLou Adams Rosemary EcklesGeorge Bogovich Charles GerdingElsie Capelli Catherine RomanoffThomas Cuscino Frank MihelicGrace Kruger Frank SnowdenJohn Vranic Ray SchwalmAlma Lange
PGPi Concludes 
Plans For Dinner
Phi Gamma Pi, the organiza­
tion for the women who attend 
evening classes, completed its reg­
ular monthly meeting on April 
20 with a luncheon.
Light sandwiches, cookies, can­
dies and tea were served. All re­
freshments were prepared by 
members. Marjorie Bomer, chair- 
lady of the April refreshment 
committee, was assisted by Viola 
Lentz, Peggy Hoffman, Rosemary 
Malinic, Veronica Brosky and Bet­
ty Ashcraft when planning this 
informal affair.
Plans for the spring banquet 
have been concluded with ar­
rangements to have the dinner at 
the University Club on Monday 
evening, May 26, at six-thirty. 
Judge Sara Soffel, prominent 
Pittsburgh judge, has consented to 
speak on this occasion. Invita­
tions have been sent to the mem­
bers giving full details concern­
ing this affair.
The next meeting of Phi Gam­
ma Pi will be on May 18 at the 
Carnegie Union. Reservations will 
be made with Betty Hensler for 
the banquet at this meeting.
Scotch & Soda Scores 
Hit With Rock 4n* Riot
Registration
Registration for the sup­
plementary term will be held 
during the week of May 12 
to 16, and on Monday eve­
ning, May 19, between 7:00 
and 9:00, and on Wednesday 
evening, May 21, between 
6:30 and 7:15, in the Regis­
trar’s Office.
Do You Know . ..
The first appearance of the 
present Kiltie Band in its strik­
ing costume was at the Notre 
Dame game in Pittsburgh on No­
vember 25, 1922. Since then the 
band has become nationally 
known. The uniform with its 
eleven separate parts — kilt, tun­
ic, plaid, sporran, hose tops, gar­
ters, spats, belt, glengarry, belt 
buckle and plaid buckle — is a 
complicated bit of dress to get 
into and it is a real task for the 
band manager to see that all parts 
are returned in June for reissu­
ance in the Fall.
In the early days the Evening 
Student Council furnished blank­
ets to keep the bare knees of band 
members from becoming numb 
during cold November afternoons.
Scotch and Soda is back and 
this year’s show, “Rock ‘n’ Riot,” 
really showed us what we’ve been 
missing for the past five years. 
Seldom has the stage of staid 
Carnegie Music Hall seen such a 
bevy of beauties or heard such 
laughable dialogue. Ernie Motyl 
and Dave Crantz wrote the book 
which, though it used a slightly 
worn theme, is a refreshing ex­
ample of college humor. It tells 
the story of a college president 
and its football hero who were 
kidnapped on the eve of the big 
game, the detectives who tried to 
find them, and the girl who was 
left behind.
The music by Kenny Welch and 
Howard Palmer is better than the 
average college tunes and “Does 
the Sun Ever Shine In Pitts­
burgh?,” a parody sung early in 
the show, brought down the 
house.
The man hunting tactics of El­
len Hovde and Lucy Seibert and
the antics of their victims, Ueorge 
Wood and Ernie Motyl, were es­
pecially well received. The sing­
ing by Phillis Petrikin, Renee 
Orkin, and Herb Wilson, particu­
larly “November Lingers On,” and 
“In the Quiet of the Evening” was 
a fine example of student perform­
ance.
In this writer’s opinion words 
cannot express the enthusiasm 
aroused by watching Ruth 
Pivirotto dance. This lovely miss, 
who also directed the choreo­
graphy, can tell more in a few 
minutes on stage than we can 
say in several hundred phrases. 
Our only regret was that Miss 
Pivirotto’s appearances were of 
such short duration.
Director Lawrence Carra and 
the entire Scotch and Soda com­
pany deserve high praise for 
bringing this wonderful phase of 
college life back to the C. I. T. 
campus.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TABTANTUESDAY, MAY 13, 1947
CASHPAID
or yon can trade yourOLD TEXT BOOKS
for
30%MORE
~ln Any Merchandise In The Store
($4.00 in used text books 
buys $5.20 in goods)
OFFER EXTENDS UNTIL JUNE 1-1947
$4 IN USED TEXTS 
BUYS $5.20 IN 
MERCHANDISE
“Ours Is a Trade 
That Service Made ”
STUDENT 
BOOK 
EXCHANGE
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
