y
The Newspaperof Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 13, January 17, 1984.
Psychologist Chase dies of heart attack
WILLIAM CHASE
tradition at CMU
NEIL J. GREENBLUM
rimi Staffivriter
photo by Mike Butensky
fence wiii be repaired
What happened to the fence?” is a ques- 
n almost everyone has been asking since 
university community returned last 
leek. One of the logs detached from the 
Ince during finals week, and eventually 
I sappeared.
¦ Officer McCluskey discovered the fence 
I oken while walking his regular beat on 
lie evening of December 16. He brought it 
It that night,” stated Robert S. Fadzen, 
1 irector of Security, Campus Police 
lepartment.II 1 ne cause of the incident is still uncer- 
|in. There is no indication of malicious
¦ item,” Fadzen ascertains. “The wood was 
Iverely rotted and there was a great deal of 
I 'terioration. My best guess is that someone
obably just plopped up on it, and it
akan dies
NEIL J. GREENBLUM
rtan Staffivriter
Professor Kunio Sakan died late last 
ursday in an apparent suicide. Sakan was 
assistant professor of chemistry at 
megie-Mellon University.
¦ According to the coroner’s office, the 
use °f Sakan’s death was asphyxiation by 
nging himself. He was found dead in his 
me °n the evening of January 12. A note
as found nearby.
Sakan, a well-known professor in his third 
I ^ at CMU, specialized in the field of syn- 
IleU( organic chemistry. He taught Lab 2 and 
lab 3 in the Chemistry Department’s Core 
l3^ Sequence.
1-1 Sakan is survived by his wife, Hirko, and 
children.
d feature on Professor Sakan will appear
J** week.
cracked.”
Fadzen has put in a maintenance request 
to physical plant and the log will be 
replaced in the near future.
According to Brad Walter, Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs, “The fence is a mark of diver­
sity. It is one of the really long-standing 
informal traditions here at the University.”
No one is sure when the fence was first 
constructed, but it was last rebuilt by the 
class of 1921. According to The Word, the 
wood structure is a sounding board and an 
advertising medium for virtually anyone 
and anything. “It probably receives more 
coats of paint in a given year than any object 
or building in the world,” states The Word.
Problems concerning the fence in the past 
have been kept to a minimum. “We haven’t 
really had problems with the fence,” con- 
continued on page 6
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffivriter
While jogging around the Tech Field 
track, CMU professor William G. Chase had 
a heart attack, and subsequently died on 
December 16.
Chase, 43, was a professor in the psychol­
ogy department. He specialized in the field 
of human memory and gained national 
recognition for his experiments demonstrat­
ing that good memory is an acquired skill.
According to Michelene Chi, Chase’s wife 
and a University of Pittsburgh psychologist, 
Chase’s most recent success concerned a 
study of digit memory span. Under his gui­
dance, one of Chase’s students had 
improved his memory for numbers from the 
normal seven digits to 80 digits. The pre­
vious record for digital recall was 18 digits, set 
in 1911 by a German mathematics professor.
“What all this shows,” Chase recently 
said, “is that with training you can expand a 
skill like memory to levels that have never 
been reached before, even by mental- 
calculation experts.”
David Klahr, a psychology department 
league and dose friend, knew Chase for 
12 years. “My office was opposite his for 10 
years. I saw him every day. We did a joint 
paper last year (on how long lists are organ­
ized in memory), we jointly supervised a 
couple of students, we ran together, and we 
spoke a great deal. His personal integrity tvas 
just amazing.”
“I originally knew Bill as a friend before 
we worked together,” confirmed Jim Stas- 
zewski, Chase’s most recent research assist­
ant. “He was humorous, fun-loving, and an 
enthusiastic guy.”
Klahr added, “Even though he wasn’t 
‘Good-Time Charley’, people were always 
happy to see Bill.”
Chase was working on an article called 
“Visual Information Processing”, also the 
title of his 1973 book, according to 
Staszewski.
Some of Chase’s previous articles include 
Acquisition of a Memory Skill” (Science, 
June 1980), “Skilled Memory” (Cognitive 
Skills and Their Acquistion, 1981), “Excep­
tional Memory” (American Scientist, 
NovemberDecember 1982), and “Skill and 
Working Memory” (The Psychology of 
Learning and Motivation, 1982). These arti­
cles were the result of a collaboration 
between Chase and University erf Colorado 
psychologist K. Anders Ericsson.
“Spatial Representations of Taxi Driv­
ers,” a 1982 solo effort by Chase, was pres­
ented at the NATO Conference held at the 
University of Keele in July 1982.
Chase received his bachelor of arts degree 
from the University of Colorado in 1962. He 
received his master’s degree and Ph.D. from 
the University of Wisconsin in 1965 and 
1969, respectively.
Staszewski summed up Chase’s profes­
sional career by saying “Bill was certainly 
one of the most distinguished people in his 
field and one erf the top research psycholo­
gists in the work! All his knowledge gave 
him a good perspective of what he didn’t 
know.”
“Also, I don't think you could find a 
bigger Steeler fan," he remarked.
A memorial service for Chase will take 
place Friday January 20, at 4.W pm in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Washington comes to CMU
DOD seeks better software
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
In seeking to improve the computer capa­
bilities of its weapons and armed divisions, 
the Department of Defense sent a group of 
Washington officials to Camegie-Mellon 
University late last semester.
According to Keith Moore, Vice-President 
of Public Relations, the DOD needs the fin­
est computer software available for weap­
onry and defense. It would like to connect to
armed divisions through computer software 
and also wants equipment such as battle­
ships, to be able to work with each other via 
computer.
Plans were also discussed for a possible 
software Engineering Institute. The Pen­
tagon is looking towards setting up the 
Institute close to an already existing soft­
ware institute. Pittsburgh is one of the possi­
ble sites.
“The Pentagon hasn’t make a public 
announcement erf intent,” clarified Moore.
continued on page 6
pnoco WI jonn Kogrrs
The Craig Street Inn, Oakland, has been sold. The new owners are building a restaurant and 
bar that is expected to open some time in March.
In this issue
Editorial
Editors say goodbye, good luck ... page 2 
News
The stench at the Tartan Grill------page 5
New position filled in GSIA...........page 5
Features
Cyert is man of the year...................page 9
Lenny and Squiggy return...........page 10
Entertainment
Here come the Greeks....................page 11
Lab theatre does Da........................page 13
Sports
Super Bowl Smorgasbord.............page 15
Basketball loses sixth straight-----page 17

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The Tartan reminisces as new board enters
The Tartan is changing its skin this week. 
Many of the old editors are seniors now, and 
after four years are heading out to graduate and 
find jobs in the Real World. A few are staying, 
but most of the new board will consist of new 
faces.
This past year has seen many changes on 
campus. The Teaching Center was opened to 
help students get their $7500’ worth. The 
administration started listening to students’ 
cries that Skibo just wasn’t sufficient anymore, 
and started studying revisions to the building. 
And the Information Technology Center fell 
behind schedule. . . more than once.
ZBT, perhaps trying to top ATO, had its 
charter suspended alter a freshman nearly died at 
their house. A student was thrown out of CMU 
when he was picked up by police for posses­
sion of drugs. And a freshman who wreaked 
havoc with CMU computers gained national 
attention before he left CMU in December.
Warner Hall was reorganized when former 
Provost Richard Van Horn accepted an offer at 
the University of Texas. CIT and H&SS were 
left without deans when Crecine and Jordan 
moved into the flashcube.
Most of the Computation Center software 
staff (the people who keep the computers run­
ning) quit this summer, citing poor manage­
ment and overwork among their reasons. They 
have not yet been replaced.
The football team captured the attention of 
many at CMU as it tried to capture the regional 
title, losing only the last game.
This past year has also seen the passing of
several members of the CMU community, fr0m 
architecture grad student Mary Beth Barrett 
last semester to Professors Chase and Sakan 
recently.
Many issues have come up over the year 
Some we have handled well, and others, 
well, everyone makes mistakes. We’ve made 
ours, and the new board will undoubtedly 
make a few of their own as they grow into the 
job. Running a newspaper is no trivial task 
some editors put in more than 40 hours a week 
and often have to neglect class work to get the 
paper out on time.
Be gende to the new board until they have a 
chance to discover how to cope with it. They 
probably don’t know what they’re in for.
Good luck to Ric, Sue, and the new gang. 
It’s all yours now.
No longer the only kid on the biock
AT&T breakup to benefit public with more competition
By Stuart Shapiro
Now that everyone has had a chance to 
convince himself that the best telephone sys­
tem in the world has not crumbled and per­
ished, a victim of violent and unholy 
dismemberment, maybe it’s pos-
^5» sible to rationally discuss the 
demise of Ma Bell.
“If it isn’t broken, don’t fix it” 
was a common refrain during the divestiture 
battle. It’s especially interesting that this 
particular sentiment spanned the political 
spectrum. Liberals and conservatives alike 
expressed opinions ranging from quiet dis­
approval to bellicose outrage. It has been 
said from time to time that if both liberals 
arid conservatives object to a particular pol­
icy, that policy must have some sort of merit. 
So it was in the case of the divestiture of 
AT&T.
There really was a significant monkey 
wrench stuck in the works prior to the day of 
reckoning a couple of weeks ago. AT&T has 
discovered that when it came to long dis­
tance phone service, it was no longer the 
only kid on the block. Its monopoly on long 
distance phone service was ancient history' 
by the time the breakup occurred. You’ve 
got a problem when you’re a regulated 
monopoly without a monopoly. It makes it 
kind of hard to compete. Especially when 
you’re not allowed to compete in other areas 
of telecommunications and data processing 
because you’re a regulated monopoly. But 
half your monopoly doesn’t exist anymore.
So what’s to be done with a company 
that’s half a natural monopoly? Half regu­
late it1 While perhaps possible in theory, it 
doesn’t strike me as particularly plausible in 
practice. Of course, we could just deregulate 
the whole thing. But it’s hardly fair to other 
firms in the industry to suddenly force them 
to compete with a colossus grown fat under 
protective regulations. And we still have the 
problem of the half that still constitutes a 
natural monopoly . The other alternative is 
to partition the colossus, primarily along 
monopolistic and nonmonopolistic lines.
Hence, divestiture.
It’s interesting to listen to conservatives 
complain about all this. You’d think they’d 
welcome a restructuring that allows more 
competition and less regulation. Lord only 
knows I’ve heard plenty of condemnations 
of inefficient government regulation stifling 
the free market. Now those same people are 
crying over the supposed destruction of the 
finest telephone system in the world as a 
result of reduced regulation and enhanced 
competition. There’s just no pleasing some 
people. Except, of course, those strange 
souls who see in unfettered monopoly the 
free market at its finest. Well, it might be 
pretty fine for the monopolists. The rest of 
us might not be as enchanted.
Meanwhile, liberals are complaining 
because suddenly people, especially the less 
affluent, will have to pay the actual cost of 
local phone service. But having prices reflect 
actual costs is hardly such a novel state of 
affairs. We’ie just not used to the notion 
when it comes to phone service. So we’ll get
Gov't farm policies tax consumers
By Dan Tobias '
In her column in the last issue of The 
Tartan, Wendv Scott decned America’s con- 
^ sumensm, and implied that if
we would only stop our wasteful 
habits (i.e., leaving food on our 
trays at Kiltie to be thrown in the
dumpster, and indulging in extravagant 
purchases like individually-wrapped slices 
of American cheese) there would be more 
food to go around to the needy. Unfortu­
nately, this is simply not true, and it shows 
that Ms. Scott is ignorant of our govern­
ment’s farm policy over the last half century.
Lewis ponders missing Andropov
By Christopher D. Lewis
Time magazine gave Yuri Andropov half 
of its 1983 Man of the Year award. This was 
appropriate, for since August, no one has 
seen or heard from the Russian leader. Okay, 
Yuri, the gig is up.
Where are you?
Are you on vacation? Have 
you gone to Club Med? I know 
those commercials are great, and look really 
appealing, but do you get them in Moscow? 
I understand the job is stressful, but tell us, 
already.
Perhaps you have shacked up with 
George Bush. After all, George has been 
missing since he became vice president in 
1980. Maybe there is some relationship here.
Are you living with Idi Amin, perhaps? 
No one knows where he is, either. Perhaps 
the two erf you are planning a world 
takeover. Or perhaps a massive hide-and- 
seek game.
Maybe you are with Jimmy Hoffa, 
although I may have cement blocks
strapped to my feet for saying this. I’m not 
that strong a swimmer, so the Monongahela 
River doesn’t sound too appealing.
Maybe you really do have a cold, as 
reports say. A seven month cold. I guess it 
could happen. Maybe it’s mono. Perhaps a 
social disease. Oh, I forgot, you couldn’t 
possibly have a social life. No one knows 
where you are.
Perhaps you are running for the Demo­
cratic nomination for the United States pre­
sidency, under a pseudonym, of course. No 
one knows who the last few candidates are, 
anyway.
Or possibly, you were sent to Siberia with 
the hockey team that lost the recent series 
against the United States team. They could 
join the 1980 Olympic team.
Or maybe you have been signed by 
Donald Trump to play for the United States 
Football League’s New Jersey Generals. He 
seems to sign everyone else.
Maybe you’ve got the runs, and have been 
continued on page 3
Since the 1930’s, the government has had 
a massive program of subsidies in-order to 
reduce farm production and raise food pri­
ces. Farmers are assigned allotments of crops 
to grow and are often paid to leave their 
fields idle. Much of the food that is grown is 
purchased by the government at above­
market prices and left to rot in warehouses, 
with the storage costs borne by the taxpay­
ers. The amount of food that is deliberately 
wasted by the government dwarfs the 
amount wasted in college cafeterias.
The average American is forced to pay 
many times over for this program. First he 
must pay taxes which are given to farmers 
not to grow things, and to buy some of what 
they grow to store uselessly. Next he pays 
higher food prices at the supermarket, since 
the intentional aim of this government pol- 
continuad on page 8
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Bcjard. 
Columns are the opinions of indii’idual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Lrtrrs to the editor are opinions of mdnndual authors 
who are usually members of the Vmversity commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. "
used to it. Even without divestiture, the 
result would probably have been the same. 
In order to compete effectively with other 
long distance services, AT&T would eventu­
ally have been forced to cut long distance 
rates and to raise local rates to make up the 
difference.
For those who can’t afford the new rates, 
the regional operating companies will 
almost certainly offer some sort of basic 
“lifeline” service. Except when lack of it 
endangers health or safety, does anyone have 
any sort of right to cheap phone service? I 
can’t seé why anyone should.
Once most of the not unanticipated con­
fusion dies down, I doubt that very many 
people will find their world tom asunder by 
the breakup of AT&T. They’ll still have 
reliable phone service from what I strongly 
suspect will continue to be the finest tele­
phone system in the world, even if it oper­
ates in separate pièces. What we as 
consumers will have that we didn’t have 
before is more competition and thus more 
choices. I don’t see how that’s ever a 
thing.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Thélàrt n.
Editor in Chief...................................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor..............................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager............. ....................Karen Tvlak
News Editor............................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor.............................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor.........................Susan Petne
Sports Editor..........................................Ric Medr0*
Photography Editor  .........................Mike Pilewsk
Production Manager...............Carolyn Speranz
Ad Manager..........................................Bonnie Top
Typesetting Manager .. .. ...............Patti Carlisle
Art Director.................... ...........Michael Sussmafl
Contributing Editor... . ..........Vincent Guin10
Assoc. News Editor .... Christopher Johns!«1
Assistant News Editor.........................Doug
Asst. Features Editor........................Neal John«00
Asst Entertainment............................... Scot» 8°**
Asst. Sports Editor.................Christopher
Asst Production Mgr..............................Bob Aart"*
Asst Ad Manager................................Andrew
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Neil Greenblt1,,l 
Maria Rivas, Steve Volan.
Copyright © 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publitat>ofl 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo' 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. 
address: Box 17, Srhenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters
Suicide victim remembered
Editor:
Thoughts on a suicide: dedicated to the 
memory of the late Dr. Kunio Sakan— 
scientist, teacher, and friend...
“Life is constant peril; moral or even 
physical security is a myth. Few of us know 
what to do with our lives, with our power 
and will, with our intelligence and our free­
dom. The heart is frail and blind; unguided 
and unbeknown, it becomes forlorn.”
It is easier to cope with bacteria and vir­
uses in this day than with callousness of the 
heart or with the imperceptible decay of the 
inner spirit and will to continue. It is not for
one human being to judge the actions of a 
fellow being; and especially, where the moti­
vation controlling the act is hidden.
However, it is each man’s duty to love his 
fellow man. Who can we turn to when we 
are about to destroy that which no man can 
restore? God (if we believe in Him) and our 
brothers. The gift of life is a gift to be sancti-: 
fied and not sacrificed, to be ennobled and 
not despised. It was a tragic loss for the 
world when Dr. Sakan died. Blessed is the 
name of God.
Harvey J. Rluestein 
Senior, ChemistryX-mas spread scorned
Editor:
I am writing in response to the Merry 
Christmas spread appearing in the 
December 6, 1983 issue of The Tartan.
Though this university is private, I have 
no knowledge of it being affiliated with any 
religious denomination.
Many people associate Christmas with 
New Year’s and Thanksgiving — more of a 
national (or even universal) holiday rather 
dian a religious one. “Christmas spirit” is 
associated with the latter months of the year, 
and there is a lot of “holiday” shopping and 
“holiday” sales. “Christmas cheer” is every­
where — even here at good ol’ CMU. Large 
Christmas trees pop up in Skibo Hall, our 
student union building, and in our various 
student dining facilities. The Margaret Mor­
rison co-op is having a Christmas drawing 
with several prizes, and even our Margaret 
Morrison laundromat has foundoccasion to 
be involved with all of this Christmas cheer.
To many, a complaint would seem quite 
unappropriate, and the person complain­
ing might even be referred to as an “old 
Scrooge.”
However, as a student who is not Chris­
tian, I find it very trying that the entire 
student population is not represented dur­
ing the “holiday” season.
At this point I might only speak for the 
Jewish students on campus. Considering 
the investment this university has put into 
Christmas trees I would find it very approp­
riate for them to invest equally in a menorah 
which would be lit on the eight days of 
Chanukah.
Considering that school is not in session 
on the holiday of Christmas, an awful lot of 
attention is given to it. I find it ironic that
The Tartan, which was distributed smack 
in the middle of the festival of Chanukah, 
failed to acknowledge its existence, yet The 
Tartan managed to mention a holiday that 
will not be for another two weeks.
Gail Feldman 
President, CMU Hillel Club
We apologize for this oversight.
Ed.
Chairman remarks on alcohol policy
Editor.
As chairman of the Student Senate Alco­
hol Policy Committee and a student repre­
sentative to the Student Affairs Committee 
of the Faculty Senate, I am writing in order 
to point out several incorrect statements in a 
recent Tartan column about the resolutions 
introduced in both senates concerning revi­
sions to the school’s alcohol policy.
While Dr. Hoburg did introduce a resolu­
tion to the Faculty Senate, the Student 
Affairs Committee, after much deliberation 
and inquiry, returned to the Senate with a 
different resolution which was eventually 
voted on and passed by the Senate. It was 
also sent to committee, debated and passed 
by the Student Senate with one change. 
Much of the proposal is the same as the 
current policy, although the order of the 
statements has been juggled a litde in order 
to avoid giving a false sense of priorities. 
There were two substantiative changes 
made. The first is the addition of the follow­
ing “responsibility” clause:
“Carnegie-Mellon University
adheres to the law of the Common­
wealth of Pennsylvania concerning 
the use of alcoholic beverages and 
expects its students and student organ­
izations to act in accordance with the 
law.
In addition, members of the Univer­
sity community have an individual 
and collective responsibility to see that 
the following policy is adhered to:
1. In all circumstances, the Univer­
sity expects students to conduct them­
selves both individually and 
collectively in a responsible manner. 
Abusive or excessive consumption of 
alcohol resulting in interference with 
the rights of other persons, personal 
injury, or damage to property will 
result in severe disciplinary action up 
to and including suspension or 
expulsion.”
Also, the existing policy contains the 
statement
“Events for undergraduates at which 
alcoholic beverages are to be served 
should be cleared in advance with the
Dean of Student Affairs ...”
While the Faculty Senate recommended 
that the word “should” be changed to 
“must,” Student Senate recommended that 
the original statement be retained.
I do not think either proposal can fairly be 
termed “brutal” as Chris Johnston suggests, 
nor is anything recommended that would 
widen the “student-faculty chasm.” Further, 
with a litde investigative research, Mr. John­
ston would have discovered that the existing 
policy already rules out alcohol on the cam­
pus grounds and in hallways and class­
rooms of academic buildings. And it is naive 
to believe that the proposed changes as out­
lined in this letter would result in a dry rush 
any more than the existing school policy 
and state liquor laws. Finally, neither senate 
has the responsibility to dictate school pol­
icy; these resolutions serve only as recom­
mendations which are presented to the 
administration for appropriate action.
Becky Sikora
Chairman, Student Senate 
Alcohol Policy Committee
Potential nuclear conflict is in our hands
Editor
Recently, I got a call from an old friend in 
eveland, and in the course of the conversa­
tion, I asked him if he planned on watching 
rhe Day After” that evening. “Yeah, proba- 
ly> he said, “I heard the special effects were 
onna be real good.” I was pretty disgusted 
th his reply, but when I told him this, he
was surprised. “Well, what the hell can I do? 
It’s coming. I’m in no position to stop it.” 
Monday, upon talking to people around 
here, the consensus seems to be the same. 
“So what?” The show was terrifying, dem­
oralizing, and essentially pointless. It is 
something we have no more control over 
than we do over the weather and tides, andAmericans proving they're stupid
1u«d from page 2
n the bathroom since August. You’ve prob- 
bly run out of paper by now, so maybe 
e 11 send some. We know your reports are 
uU of it, so now we have an idea of where 
t s coming from.
1 picture Mama Andropov, walking the 
treets of Moscow, yelling, “Yuri! Where
re you, Yuri?” The world cries out, “Where 
re you, Yuri?”
Perhaps the Afghanistani people have 
ken over Russia, or they just took over
our office, and they are holding vou
ostage.
Maybe you have a job at Disney World.
I’ve got it!! The guy in the Mickey Mouse 
suit. Or maybe the guy doing Elmer Fudd’s 
voice on the Bugs Bunny show. Or perhaps 
Porky Pig.
Have you moved to the Falkland Islands? 
I hear sheep season is big. Or maybe prepar­
ing to run the dash in the 1984 Los Angeles 
Olympics. Training is rough.
Or, perhaps, you are dead.
A morbid ending to a satirical article, but 
this isn’t a joke. The Russians think we are 
stupid. The bad thing is that we are proving 
they are right.
Christopher I suns is a freshman and is 
Assistant Sports Editor for The Tartan.
when it comes, we can only pray that it is 
mercifully quick.
For my friend, who manages a grocery 
store, this is probably a fair estimate. Oh, he 
can write letters to his congressman, and 
maybe protest at a rally which will be 
noticed by few. Haven’t rallies been going 
on for years, with nobody noticing them? 
Heck, I remember “Ban the Bomb” rallies in 
the fifties. And here we are, still striving for 
the mythical superiority, making triggers 
ever hairier, and the cataclysm is heartbeats 
away.
But I recall another conversation, with an 
engineer who graduated from the Univer­
sity of Illinois last year, and took a job with a 
defense firm working on the guidance sys­
tem for one of our more “advanced” wea­
pons systems. A few years ago, this guy 
found Jesus, and has often tried to help me 
find the error of my Catholic ways. Tired of 
religious fencing, I asked him how he recon­
ciled his being “bom again” with helping to 
design machines for genocide. He replied 
that Jesus must want him to, or he wouldn't 
be doing it. Hmmm. It must be nice to be
able to dispose of your conscience so cleanly. 
But more importantly, it brings to mind this 
thought. Here was somebody who could 
have done something, but didn’t. The inter­
view came, the “defense” firm offered him a 
job, and he took it. Now, he is designing 
megadeath.
Why are protests so poindess? Why 
haven’t the throngs of British women and 
West German youths protesting the place­
ment of the cruise missiles been effective? 
The answer may be simpler than it looks. 
They have no clout. Power does not reside 
with them. Their votes are few and easily 
countered. Who does have clout? The men 
who make the weapons, sell them and direct 
their use. And who makes the weapons? We 
do. The graduates of the science and engi­
neering department. Who sells them? We 
do. The graduates erf the business schools 
and commerce departments and MBA pro­
grams. Who directs their use? We do. The 
graduates of the law schools and English 
departments who are the politicians and the 
graduates of ROTC programs who are the 
continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

Artists Designers Photographers
Interested in working?
contact Beth x4608 Jill 687-5499 Judy 682-1553
' -V„ _>s '
WEVE GROWN INTO SOMETHING GRAND
Meetings Thursdays 7:00 p.m. Skibo 50. 
New members welcome.
Poetry Essays Fiction Drama
Drop off your work or send 
via Campus Mail to
Dossier Skibo room 50 Deadline: February 1

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—The Tartan—Page 5
------------------------——:
Writing • Paste-up
Assistants needed for newspaper sections, 
business, and advertising.
New Members Meeting 
Tuesday, January 24th 
8 p.m., Room 12, Skibo
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
A rancid smell that plagued the Tartan 
Grill during the closing weeks of last semes- 
er has been taken care of.
According to John Kordesich, foreman of 
physical Plant, the odor was caused by leak- 
ng drainage pipes. These pipes had depos­
ted debris into the soil under Skibo. The 
main leaks were found under the salad prep­
aration area, and it seems that particles of 
food and soap had lodged in the pipes over 
the years and caused the pipes to erode and 
eak.Bob Choate, manager of the University 
Dining Service, offered two explanations as 
why the leak occurred. First, since Skibo is 
xiiJt directly on the ground, the building 
ontinues to settle in strange ways, even 
hough it was built over twenty years ago. 
Second, the pipes used in Skibo were not as 
rood as the ones made today because they 
vere not made in a uniform way. Conse­
quently, small crevices were formed between 
ipes, and the debris from the Tartan Grill 
lodged into these crevices.
Choate stated that the cast iron pipes orig- 
nally installed in Skibo were “experimen- 
1,” and that “the experiment failed.” The 
ttling of the building, coupled with the 
r quality of the original pipes, caused
A new
the pipes to leak, which, in turn, caused the 
terrible smell.
The smell was first noticed shortly after 
Thanksgiving, and Physical Plant was 
promptly called in. By that time, though, 
the pipes had eroded to such a degree that it
was necessary tor Physical Plant to dig up 
certain sections of the floor in order to install 
odor killing materials, which proved to be 
ineffective. The problem was also compli­
cated by the fact that the workmen had to 
work around electric conduits in the floor.
photo by Eric Targan
The entire job of replacing the pipes, refil­
ling the holes, and retiling, started on 
December 19 and continued until January 4. 
The final cost of the work has not yet been 
tallied, but Kordesich estimates the cost to 
“be about $6000 — $7000.”itt official named development director
Frank A. Griffith has been appointed the 
lirst development director at CMU’s Gradu- 
ite School of Industrial Administration.
Griffith will develop and implement the 
(msiness school’s $15 million capital cam- 
lign. Funds will be raised from private, 
torporate and alumni sources to expand
GSIA’s faculty and to create special business 
research centers.
For 15 years, Griffith was associate direc­
tor of development and alumni affairs at the 
University of Pittsburgh. He did fund­
raising for the Universty School of Medicine 
Health Center and established a network of
regional alumni clubs.
“Frank’s impressive accomplishments in 
fund-raising and his knowledge erf Pitts­
burgh’s corporate community will be great 
assets in our capital campaign, said Eliza­
beth E. Bailey, dean erf GSIA. “He will work 
closely with GSIA’s directors of placement,
executive programs and alumni relations to 
strengthen and enhance our ties with the 
public and private sectors.”
Griffith, a graduate of the University of 
Pittsburgh, first worked for U.S. Steel Cor­
poration in the industrial engineering 
department.
The Tartan. It could be you.
TartanGrill odor blamed on pipe breaks

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—January 17, 1984
EE/ME/COMP SCI
Advanced Degrees
Pentagon
continued from page 1
He called all plans “speculative” and said 
finalization of any plans would take place 
within the next three or four months.
Among the dignitaries arriving at CMU 
were Lieutenant Governor William Scran­
ton, and Senator John Heinz, as well as the 
DOD official who will be heading the pro­
ject. They discussed the needs of the DOD 
with CMU officials in a meeting and a lun­
cheon on the morning of December 8.
Commented Moore, “It is an important 
but small operation for the DOD, but for 
Pittsburgh it could have image 
ramifications.”
The CMU Shotokan Club* 
is now forming beginners 
classes. Classes meet Tues- i 
days and Thurs-days 7:00 
p.m.—9:00 p.m. and 
Saturdays 11:30 a.m.— 
1:30 p.m. in Thistle Hall, 
Gym.___________
CONTRACEPTIVES 
The Rubber Tree 
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
• Condom* - over 35 vari­
eties
• Foams. Cream«.
• Books. T-Shirts, *nd 
more
• 10-40% BELOW RETAIL
Fadzen talks about fence
continued from page 1
firms Fadzen. “The only problem we have is 
occasionally someone will put something 
offensive on the fence. When that happens, 
we call the Dean’s office.” Walter says he calls 
Physical Plant and has them paint over the 
offensive material.
Walter, who was a student at CMU from 
1966 until 1971, says the fence’s most signifi­
cant aspect is that is a non-academic and 
non-intellectual tradition. “Tradition 
doesn’t have to be academic or intellectual. 
We need some more good tradition of this 
type to pull the campus together.”
“Every body enjoys it. I’ve painted it many 
dmes, but only when I was a student,” 
chuckles Walter.
Correction
A November 15 article on the child care 
center incorrectly reported the existence of a 
flexible benefits plan on campus. The plan 
is not yet offered but is being evaluated to be 
available in the future to full-dme CMU 
employees.The fence has been
Investigate career opportunities in robotics at AT&T 
Technologies, Inc. by writing to: Mr. N.E. Leaver, Ref. 123, 
AT&T Engineering Research Center, PO. Box 900, 
Princeton, NJ 08540.
AT&T
An equal opportunity employer, m/f
FOR A FREE MAIL ORDER 
BROCHURE WRITE 
THE RUBBER TREE. DEPT MT2 
4426 BURKE N„ SEATTLE, WA 98103 
A PROJECT OF ZPG-SEATTLE
We are both the world’s largest supplier of telecommunica­
tions and, in a sense, a new company that’s now freer to 
produce whatever we want and sell to whomever we want.
Robotic/.
This new competitive reality is stimulating. And it has made 
our famous Engineering Research Center in Princeton 
even more vital than before. Its mission—and that of the
new engineers who join 
us—is to improve 
manufacturing processes, 
raise efficiency, lower 
costs and create wholly 
new technologies for 
highly promising new 
product designs.
Develop its full potential... and yours...at the AT&T Engineering Research Center
Advanced Automation: 
the key to the future
We're designing programmable robots, machine vision 
systems and processing control systems for use 
throughout AT&T’s manufacturing operations. Our Robotics 
Center—opened in 1982— has a variety of commercial 
and ERC-created robots. The small, highly interdisciplinary 
teams we are forming will be involved in systems planning, 
designing robotics applications and in consulting on 
where and how best to use robots.
A look at typical projects...
• Researching new manipulator techniques for inserting 
components into Printed Circuit Boards.
• Investigating new tactile and non-contact sensor 
concepts for robotics.
• Developing flexible (robotic) facilities for assembly of IC 
chip carriers.
• Designing circuit pack assembly facilities for high yield 
and increased throughput.
• Automating VLSI clean room manufacturing processes.
• Introducing robots into various high-speed production 
processes
You will find awesome resources.
You will work not only with top mechanical and electrical 
engineers, but with top people in chemistry, physics, op­
tics, materials science, metallurgy, ceramics, mathematics, 
statistics and computer science. Nearly 100% of our 
professional research staff have advanced degrees; over 
75% have doctorates. Technical, support services and 
educational resources are excellent. Benefits and salaries 
are outstanding. You will be a member of one of the 
world's great academic and corporate research 
communities.

---------------------------------------------------

AB LECTURES PRESENTS:
CMU ALUMNI
MICHAEL McKEAN
DA VID LANDER
BALLROOMWEDNESDAYJANUARY 18 8:00 P.M.
TICKETS ON SALE $1.00 AT THE INFORMATION DESK
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—January 17, 1984
7/ [general dynamics
/ 1 ri fcjttyòftoòrtumtjfttmployer/U.S. Citizenship Required
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE:
JANUARY 31.
Letters:
U.S. citizens may be buying profits with lives
Multiply this by every nation in the world, 
buying weapons as fast as they are offered for 
sale. And the price tags are huge. Every time 
one airplane is sold, tens of millions of dol­
lars change hands.
This is, of course, old hat. But to put an 
old story in a new light, I put forth the 
proposition that we, the college graduates, 
engineers, scientists and lawyers are the 
arms dealers. Worse, we are prostitutes, sel­
ling our services to the highest bidder while 
preparing genocide. The responsibility for 
the death of those under the bomb is not 
diluted by distance and lack of intent. When 
the arms dealer panders to the lowest desires 
of the race, and we profit thereby, we are no 
less guilty than those who pull the trigger or 
fire the missile. Without us, the little wars of 
the world would be fought with spears and 
sticks. They are not. It is no accident that 
automatic weapons and rocket launchers 
are available to anyone who “needs” them. 
The arms race is fueled by profits.
Ayn Rand, in her book Atlas Shrugged, 
makes the point that no one can make a 
person create. No one can force someone to
Using the most advanced equipment, you 
will learn to integrate these technologies 
into new and existing programs in 
aerospace, electronics, shipbuilding, military 
land vehicles, computer systems and many 
other areas. You will also work with 
professionals who are recognized leaders in 
their fields. And to help you advance your 
knowledge, we provide formal training and 
tuition refund programs.
To learn more about a state-of-the-art 
career at General Dynamics, see your 
Placement Office for a campus interview.
continued from page 3
generals. You and me. And we have choices 
to make, choices that do make a difference.
On a larger scale, the same reason powers 
the entire arms race. Arms are big business,
and nobody spends like a general with a 
shopping list. Look at the last bit of legisla­
tion passed in Congress. A 249.8 billion dol­
lar appropriation; enough loot to keep the 
munitions makers busy for a long while.
produce, to think, to design. A pointed gun 
can make you sit or stand, walk with your 
hands up and die, and that’s all. Nobody can 
be forced to design weapons systems or to 
peddle them. We can only be bribed, conned 
and co-opted into doing so. And the bribing, 
conning and co-opting is happening. When 
the recruiters come, offering big salaries and 
use of a company car, we are being bribed. 
When the Pershing II is built for our own 
good, we are being conned. And when we 
acquiesce, and say “What can I do?” we are 
being co-opted.
Like the commercial says, when E.F. Hut­
ton speaks, people listen. And when money 
and power talk, ears perk up. The inter­
viewers are coming. They are going to 
recruit you. Big dollars, engineers! Fat salar­
ies, MBAs! Safety in the rough times ahead! 
Except, when the bombs are hanging down, 
safety and security are a pretty flimsy illu­
sion. What can youdo?
Thomas C. Pochapsky 
Graduale Student, LAS 
University of Illinois
Farm corporations rob little man
At General Dynamics, we design careers the 
same way we design our products: for success.
Today, many college graduates, 
particularly in the fields of Engineering and 
Computer Science, are playing a crucial role 
in this success.
If you are qualified, we offer a spectrum 
of opportunities in aerodynamics, advanced 
signal processing, radar systems, embedded 
software, lasers and electro-optics, 
composite structures, VLSI, non-linear 
structural analysis, robotics, CAD/CAM and 
other state-of-the-art technologies.
continued from page 2
icy is to raise prices. Finally, he must pay the 
costs of various welfare and food-stamp pro­
grams to enable lower-income families to 
get food which is priced beyond their ability 
to pay as a result of these same farm policies.
And is the beneficiary of these programs 
the mythical small farmer eking out a living 
out in the country? No! By far the vast 
majority of the government subsidy money 
goes to large farming corporations. So, by a 
government acting like a backward Robin 
Hood, the poor are beig robbed to give to the 
rich!
Clearly, then, any “food shortage” which 
may exist is caused by the government and 
not by wasteful consumers. So, all you con­
sumers out there, don’t feel guilty for engag­
ing in the pleasures erf consumption. If you 
have earned money, it is only fair that you 
may spend it on whatever gives you the most 
pleasure. Animals only need food and water; 
to be human involves much more. The con­
sumer culture in this country is a sign that, 
for the most part, we are meeting our basic 
biological needs, and are free to spend our 
lives in pursuit of happiness in whatever 
manner each individual desires. The people 
who should feel guilty for being wasteful are 
those in the government who waste money 
that doesn’t even belong to them, and in 
doing so lower the standard of living for 
everyone.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applied 
Math and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
frozen? The Regatta's coming
add a new aspect to our weekend of activities 
and this year will be no exception.”
With snow still covering the grass and 
some streets, it’s difficult to imagine hot air 
balloon races, high-speed Formula One rac­
ing, and the “Anything That Floats” race. 
What’s even harder to think of is enjoying 
all this fun in cut-offs and T-shirts, smelling 
freshly roasted peanuts, popcorn, and cot­
ton candy.
Well, with nothing but more cold 
weather to look forward to in the upcoming 
weeks, the Regatta seems like years away. 
But before you realize, though, we’ll be star­
ing down the throat of final exams. So, if 
winter has lasted too long already and being 
outside feels like a cryogenics experiment, 
think about the Regatta. It’s never too early 
for warm weather.
JV* TJ1
"Man of the Year”
Cyert: "Impressed with the quality of students"
what’s going on; to be a scholar; to not only 
attain excellence and quality but to also 
maintain them; and to do all this while still 
keeping a close eye on the budget. “Actually, 
the job is what you make it,” comments 
Cyert.
The largest impression he receives is from 
the student body. “I am extremely impressed 
with the quality of students, their intelli­
gence and dedication. I’m particularly 
pleased with their loyalty to CMU.” His 
pleasure is more than evident in the yearly 
donation he gives to the school and the large 
donation given at the last fund raiser. 
“We’re not rich, but my wife and I are dedi­
cated to making this university a great place. 
The donation was well worth it when we 
think of all the good it will bring.”
This dedication and loyalty to CMU, plus 
his involvement and influence in the com­
munity have earned him the 1983 Man of 
the year Award by Vectors of Pittsburgh. 
And being touted as one of Pittsburgh’s 
most influential men has him not surprised 
but flattered. “Ranking up there with city 
officials, corporate chairmen, and chief 
executive officers is quite an honor,” Cyert 
states. But all of this work is worth it. Lying 
at the very core of his beliefs is one that 
“universities are the major hope for the 
future. For this, you need young people. 
And if there is one thing I believe in, it’s 
young people.”
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON-
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Vectors of Pittsburgh has once again 
chosen their Man of the Year. This year’s 
recipient is CMU President Richard Cyert, 
chosen for his outstanding leadership abil­
ity and contributions to the Pittsburgh com­
munity. Along with this award, he has also 
been ranked as sixth among the area’s 
most influential men.
Cyert grew up in Minneapolis and 
attended the University of Minnesota. After 
briefly serving in the Navy during WW II, 
he went to Columbia for graduate studies. 
He came to CMU in 1948 to teach econom­
ics and statistics while writing his thesis.
Although many offers were open to him, 
he chose Camegie-Mellon. “At the time I 
chose,” states Cyert, “CMU was the choice. 
Simply put, because it was the most exciting 
place to be.” In 1962, he became the second 
dean of the business school. Ten years later, 
he rose to the position of president.
The year he was apponted, this university 
was in a financial bind. The previous three 
years had ended in the red with large deficits. 
“When the search committees were inter­
viewing candidates for the office,” says 
Cyert, “I told them that I would not merely 
balance the budget but also turn CMU into 
a great university. “Twelve years later we’re 
ranked thirteenth in the nation according to 
academic standings. Not bad.
Dead and
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
The day is just glorious — low humidity, 
mid 80’s and few clouds. Perfect for swim­
ming, sun bathing, throwing a frisbee, 
water skiing, or any other summer activity 
that comes to mind. Unfortunately, with the 
cold snap we’ve had lately, warm weather is 
just a vague memory. Well, not anymore.
Eugene Connelly, general chairman of 
the Pittsburgh Three Rivers Regatta, 
recently announced the dates for this year’s 
festivities — August 3,4 and 5 at Point State 
Park. “Last year’s Regatta drew throngs of 
spectators to the banks of the Allegheny, 
Monongahela and Ohio Rivers for a week­
end of water, land and air excitement. We 
have some spectacular plans in the works for 
this year,” stated Connelly. “Each year weEl Salvador slide show
photo by Eric Targan
irv°u want to replicate this parabolic view of Margaret Morrison rotunda, go there and look 
UP (It might be better to wait until spring to get this angle from a prone position.)
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The curtain opens to reveal El Salvador in 
the present day. Our characters are hundreds 
of impoverished and mistreated women, 
and the plot concerns their misfortunes. The 
audience is horrified.
Do you know what women in El Salvador 
are experiencing? If you’re interested in the 
history and roles of women, you can attend 
“International Women in Struggle.”
On Saturday, the 28th of January, the 
Social Responsibilities Committee of the 
Unitarian Church and the Pittsburgh
Women’s Peace Network are sponsoring a 
slide show presentation by Silvia Sandoval. 
It examines the troubles of women in El 
Salvador. Music by Anne Feeney will 
accompany the show', and refreshments will 
be served. Discussion on the slide show and 
the United States' involvement with these 
issues will follow.
The presentation will be held from 2-6 
p.m. at the Unitarian Church situated on 
the comer of Ellsworth and More wood 
Avenues in Oakland. Additional informa­
tion can be obtained by calling Elayne Rap­
ping at 421-8081.
Advice in front of the Margaret Morrison comp center.
RICHARD CYERT photo by Bob Fishel
Cyert is a true believer that a college presi- those in the community. He feels strongly
dent, any college president, needs to be atten- that he has to be both administrative and
tive to both on-campus activities as well as academic; to leam as much as possible about

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—January 17, 1984
What is stopping you from becoming a member of the Caber Club? After that 
long, long holiday break you need to get involved with our total fitness program. 
Make your resolution now to get back in shape and join the Caber Club. For 
information or an appointment call x8876.
MARGARET MORRISON PLAZA CABER CLUB
From “OldMilwaukee” to "Iron CityMcKean and Lander ('
Michael McKean (1) and David L. Lander (r), alias Lenny and Squiggy, will be yukking it up in the Ballroom tomorrow 
including Young Doctors in Love (McKean) and Wholly Moses (Lander). Along with John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd, the two CMU 
however, for their wacky characters in Laveme and Shirley.
in films,
WHAT! YOU HAVEN'T JOINED THE CABER CLUB YET!

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
f'iant puppets are part of special effects in “The Greeks
Drama stages
'The Greeks"
Everything old is new again in music, theater
like they were way back when.
And for the whole hour we laughed. Hys­
terically. The comedy was unintentional, of 
course. The first time the movie came out it 
was scary as hell. But because of our rapidly 
changing era, things tend to look simple 
and silly when viewed twenty years later, 
much less eighty or ninety.
And so the craze for remaking. Moderniz­
ing. Old movies like Breathless and To Be or 
Not to Be become slick, if maybe not success­
ful, new movies. Old musicals like 42nd 
Street become new musicals. Old styles of 
music become fodder for the likes of Billy 
Joel and the Stray Cats.
But if you want something really old, 
theie’s nothing like the Greeks. Not too 
many movies or songs out of that era, but do 
they have plays!
Now we have a lot of the plays intact, but 
in 2500 years, your audience tends to change 
a bit.
The Greek audience went to Oedipus Rex 
much like we all went to see the movie 
Superman. No, really, hang in there with 
me and I’ll explain that. They, like we, 
knew the story already. They simplv went 
for the experience of hearing it told again. 
We know Superman’s gonna win and Oedi­
pus will lose. The only reason we’ll see a 
new Superman movie is to see the new spe­
cial effects; the new treatment.
It’s the same with the new production of 
the Greek plays, “The Greeks,” three trilo­
gies of ancient plays adapted by John Bartan 
and Kenneth Cavender. The Drama Depart­
ment’s production (only the fourth in the 
U.S.!) is a modernization of the already 
modernized script.
Y’see, something had to be done with the
Greek plays. They were classics and great 
plays and enough to put you to sleep in five 
minutes flat. It was just that nobody really 
knew all the names of the gods anymore, or 
cared.
We think cholesterol rules our life more 
than fate. So Mess’rs. Bartan and Cavender 
did a little rewriting, and a little explaining, 
and a little livening up. They can’t make 
today’s audience think like they did back in 
450 B.C.E., so they brought the plays to us. 
Directors Mel Shapiro and Jorge Guerra fin­
ished the job by getdng rid of the broken 
pillars and togas and gallons of white paint 
on everything.
As I haven’t yet seen the production, I 
can’t make any judgement on whether 
they’ve succeeded or not, but I can safely say 
it won’t be like any Greek play you’ve ever 
seen before.
Which will probably irk some people. 
Mr. Shapiro, co-director and Head of the 
Department, wrote, “...I am taking bets that 
we will be accused of 1) not doing “The 
Greeks” right; 2) messing with the classics.” 
And he would know, too. He’s just gotten 
accused by some people of messing around 
with The Mikado and Hay Fei>er for his 
modernizations of those shows.
For shows like The Mikado and Hay 
Fetter, the “traditional” ways of performing 
are at least as interesting as the new 
approaches. But I for one would rather see 
“The Greeks” than any traditional produc ­
tion of a Greek play.
As Billy Joel puts it in the end of his 
revival (of 60s music) album: “The good old 
days weren’t always good and tomorrow 
ain’t as bad as it seems...we’re keeping the 
.iaith.”_______________________________
In one of the most ambitious undertak­
ings in its history, the drama department at 
Camegie-Mellon University will stage “The 
Greeks” through February 4 in Kresge 
Theater in the College of Fine Arts.
Adapted by John Barton and Kenneth 
Cavander from the works of Aeschylus, 
Sophocles, Euripides and Homer, the nine 
play cycle is divided into three sections: 
"The Wars,” “The Murders” and “The 
Gods.” “The Wars” will play Wednesdays 
“The Murders,” Thursdays; “The Gods,’ 
Fridays, with a curtain at 8 each evening.
For those who wish to saturate themselves 
in the experience, all three shows will 
presented on Saturdays: "The Wars” at 1 
p.m.; “The Murders” at 4 p.m.; “The Gods” 
at 8 p.m.
Mel Shapiro, drama department head, 
and Jorge Guerra, guest artist from Peru, are
directing.
Shapiro stresses the modernity of the 
CMU production. While the show deals 
with events at the time of the fall of Troy, the 
show’s sets, costumes and special effects sug­
gest modem parallels.
Set designer Wen Hai Ma, for example, 
uses a slide of Beirut in flames to depict Troy 
under seige. Costume designers have dressed 
the captured Trojan women in clothes that 
make them look as though they have sur­
vived a nuclear holocaust.
Anachronisms abound in the drama. 
Soldiers dress in modem uniforms with 
ancient Greek headdresses and armor. 
Helen of Troy makes an appearance in a 
New Orleans brothel. Video cameras and 
microphones are used. One scene is set in an
The four designers for the drama department mega-play “The Greeks” are shown here, left to right: Mark Wendland, Scott Story, Wen Hai 
Ma and David Crank. The mask, which Crank carved, is one of the many special effects of the show.
insane asylum. mission, as well as a Greek dinner on Satur- direction of Stella Athanasiou, will perform
The Ladies Philoptochos Council of the days. The dinner will take place in the during the dinner.
Greek Orthodox Diocese of Pittsburgh will Faculty Lounge of the College of Fine Arts. For ticket information, contact the CMU 
provide Greek pastries for sale during inter- The Pittsburgh Hellenic Dancers, under the box office at 578-2407.
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter 
There’s nothing new about nostalgia. 
People have been thinking about the good 
old days ever since Day 2. And thus we all
piled into DH 2210 to watch the early 1900’s 
silent movie “Nosferatu.”
It wasn’t the story we wanted to see, eve­
ryone knows all about Dracula, we wanted 
to watch an old movie. To be entertained

---------------------------------------------------

T. G. I. E
Partali Qríll Is'Tuntastic!
TVee/íend 
*7fyet6enKeà& Sputai
Free large salad (potato, macoroni, slaw) 
OR 2 Medium drinks with purchase of 
8 or 12 pc. Chicken Pak.
uds
university 
dining 
service
Best foot forward at the HP Showcase,
January 24, 25, 26 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Career Placement Office
Discover the difference between 
the one-size-fits-all career and 
the one that really fits.
At Hewlett-Packard we place 
special importance on the “fit” 
What we have to offer are 
diverse, challenging projects.... 
unequaled advancement and 
growth opportunities, and acknowl­
edged technological leadership.
The way we operate on an 
informal basis is not for
everyone. You owe it to yourself 
to find out if it’s for you.
l-.lectrical Engineering, Computer 
Science, Mechanical Engineering, 
Field Sales. Summer and 
permanent positions.
Sign up at your College 
Placement Office now.
WhatHEWLETTV!kM PACKARD
An l.qual Opportunity Affirmative Action 1 mployer.
DO YOU WANT TO BE A RESIDENT ASSISTANT?
If you are interested in applying for an R. A. position 
for the coming year, you should attend one of the 
interest sessions on:
Oakland Review, CMU’s literary magazine, is now accepting submissions of 
poetry, fiction, one-act plays, black and white drawings, prints, and photography for its 
1984 edition.
Monday
Tuesday
January 23 
January 24
9:00 p.m. 
9:00 p.m.
Wherrett Room 
Wherrett Room
Every applicant must attend one of these sessions. If 
you have any questions, please contact the Housing 
Office at x2319.
Writing submissions must by typed and include a cover sheet with author’s name 
and address. The should be placed at the Skibo Information Desk, c/o Editor, 
Oakland Review. If submitting from off-campus, include a self-addressed stamped 
envelope to insure return.
Art submissions may be placed in Room 302, College of Fine Arts, or at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Special accomodations, questions, call Kristin Kovacic, x4466.
Deadline for all submissions is February 1, 1984.
Copies of the 1983 edition are now on sale at the Bookstore.
Funded by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—The Tartan—Page 13
Van Halen's latest "1984" release not worth the wait
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Staffumter
For many, 1984 is a year of hope. For 
others, 1984 is a year of Orwellian trepida­
tion. For Van Halen, 1984 is a surprisingly 
mediocre album. The aptly-named album is 
the sixth for the four-man heavy 
metal group whose first appear-
¿4 ance in the music world was 
with a screeching, screaming 
remake of the Kinks’ “You Really Got Me” 
which nearly put the original to shame.
Within a few months of the release of.Van 
Halen, the album went gold, and the band 
soon became known for their vibrant and 
exhiliaradng live performances. David Lee 
Roth quickly became one of rock-and-roll’s 
favorite and most obnoxious vocalists, 
while Eddie Van Halen became a guitar 
superhero, well known for his fretboard 
gymnastics.
Van Halen’s albums showed a slow 
decline until 1982 when they scored big with 
their Diver Down; it included two more 
remakes, this time of Roy Orbison’s “Pretty 
Woman”, and of the Motown classic, “Dan- 
cin’ in the Streets.”
Now, the band has released 1984 and are 
about to begin a major world tour. In an 
attempt, perhaps, to keep up with the 
trends, Eddie Van Halen has begun playing 
keyboards in addition to fretboards. Unfor­
tunately, the keyboards make a real contri­
bution only to “Jump”, the single release.
On the other tracks in which keyboards 
are played, there would be nothing missed if 
they had been dropped. “I’ll Wait”, 
although a fun song about a paranoid 
man’s love for a model in a photograph, 
could do without the background key­
boards. “1984” is simply a keyboard intro­
duction to the rest of the album, and though 
melodic and spectral in sound, its presence
deprives us of another guitar solo such as 
“Eruption” or “Spanish Fly”.
In several cases, this album is poorly 
mixed and recorded. “Girl Gone Bad” and 
“House of Pain”, despite its quick and
screaming guitar riffs, are both extremely 
muffled. In addition, the entertaining David 
Lee Roth vocals are hidden behind the 
music. “Drop Dead Legs” also shares a 
muddy sound with these two, and is, in
addition, very choppy.
There are only a few outstanding tracks 
on 1984. Of course, there is “Jump” with the 
aforementioned synthesizers, as well as the
Opera hit "Carmen" coming to Heinz Hall
One of Pittsburgh Opera’s two perfor­
mances of the ever-popular Carmen is sold 
out, announced General Director Tito 
Capobianco today. Tickets are still available 
for the Thursday, January 19 performance, 
but the Saturday, January 21 performance is 
sold out. Both Heinz Hall performances 
begin at 8:00 p.m. and will be sung in 
French.
Australian mezzo-soprano Rachel Gettler 
makes her Pittsburgh Opera debut in the 
title role, with tenor Jacque Trussel and 
Spanish baritone Carlos Chausson as Car­
men’s rivals, Don Jose and Escamillo. New 
York City Opera soprano Marianna Chris­
tos is Micaela. Carmen is conducted by
Artist Lucio Pozzi 
heads art program
The students of the Department of Art at 
CMU will present a series of free performan­
ces and art presentations on January 19, 
from 4 to 7 pm. The program, inspired by 
visiting artist Lucio Pozzi, will involve 
painting, theater, sound, movement, and a 
variety of spontaneous multimedia events.
The artists will be working in thirteen 
separate groups and each group will be 
located in different areas on the campus. 
The starting point will be the main lobby of 
the Fine Arts building. Guests will be given 
“maps” which will lead them through the 
various experiences and performances.
Anton Coppola, and directed by Bodo Igesz 
of the Metropolitan Opera.
The 1983-84 production of Bizet’s Car­
men is the 15th in Pittsburgh Opera’s 45- 
year history', more than any other opera. Yet, 
despite its phenomenal popularity for mod­
em audiences, the Paris premiere in March 
of 1875 was considered a flop. Bizet, only 36 
years old, died discouraged only three 
months later.
Carmen is once again stirring controversy
in director Peter Brook’s The Tragedy of 
Carmen. The stripped-down, 82-minute 
version of three-hour opera is currently play­
ing on Broadway.
Tickets are $25, 524 8c SI9. The Dress Cir­
cle, Family Circle and the Gallery are sold 
out. Tickets are available through the Heinz 
Hall box office, or by calling TICKET- 
CHARGE at 392-4900 (Visa7MasterCard 
accepted).
FINANCIAL AID 
1984
APPLICANTS
-85
Financial Aid Applications for the 1984-85 Academic Year will be available for 
pick-up in the Financial Aid Office, 216 Warner Hall, after January 27, 1984. 
Please insure that you apply before May 1,1984, unless otherwise specified by 
your particular state grant agency. Please note the following specific state grant 
deadlines:
Residents of:
Connecticut
Delaware 
Washington, D.C. 
Maryland 
Massachusetts
*— non-renewals
February 1, 1984* New Jersey
April 15, 1984* 
April 30, 1984 
June 15, 1984 
March 1, 1984 
March 1, 1984
**— renewals
Ohio
Pennsylvania 
Rhode Island 
Vermont 
West Virginia
October 1, 1984 
August 19, 1984 
May 1, 1984 
March 1, 1984 
March 2, 1984 
March 1, 1984
BS/MS EE/CS GRADS: ~
The Valid solution to digital systems and 
IC design problems is a system for inter­
active computer aided engineering — the 
SCALDsystem. This system is based on a 
radically new, highly modular design 
method.
Building the kind of system that solves 
tomorrow’s problems requires the work 
of highly creative minds. In fact, we’ve 
hired some of the best, and are proud to 
say the creators of the SCALDsystem are 
on our team.
If you’re a bright, innovative EEorCSgrad- 
uate with a Bachelor’sor Master’s degree, 
we’d like to make you part of the VALID 
team, where you’ll work on state-of-the-art 
systems in a sophisticated state-of-the-art 
environment running UNIX* on Valid- 
designed hardware (based on 68000 & 
8086 microprocessors). We have challeng­
ing opportunities in the following areas:
We’ll be on campus 
Friday, January 27
UNIX Internals 
Mechanical Design 
Software Engineering 
VLSI Tools 
Placement & Routing
VALID
The interactive approach to CAE.
After you’ve talked with us, we think you’ll 
see that The Valid Solution is the logical 
career solution. With our excellent fund­
ing, a top-notch team, a new facility and 
further expansion to come, your career 
stage is truly set for success.
Contact your placement office for an ap­
pointment and for additional informa­
tion. Or forward your resume and letter of 
interest to Marci Smith, Valid Logic Sys­
tems Incorporated, 1395 Charleston 
Road, Mt. View, CA 94043. An equal op­
portunity employer.
* UNIX is a registered trademark of Bell Labs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—January 17, 1984
Advanced Micro Devices Campus Interviews For Graduate/ Undergraduate in Electrical Engineering/ Computer Engineering/Computer Science
January 30
AMD chose the wave as its symbol to show the excitement of fast advancing 
technology. We’ll give you all the thrills your career can handle in exchange for your talent and ideas.
Lab Theater's "Da" tries to forget the past
past.
The play has a very loose time framework, 
moving from the present to episodes in 
Charlie’s past and back again, sometimes 
even going to one flashback in the midst of 
another. Charlie is always present in or 
observing the flashbacks, and always ready 
to put in a word or two of sarcasm, criticism, 
or complaint. Da, too, is constandy present 
throughout the play; his death seems not to 
have slowed him down.
Da is filled with humor — wry, sarcastic, 
ironic. Charlie the adult is constandy taking 
jabs at himself as a youth in his flashbacks, 
and Young Charlie (Jeff Paul), a perfect 
reflection of his older being, makes a few 
cutting remarks of his own in return. Da’s 
character is wonderfully eccentric at times; 
his self-occupied air of absentmindedness 
and total self-assuredness won a number of 
laughs from the audience. And Charlie’s 
mother’s character epitomizes everything 
frustrating and aggravating that a mother 
can be.
The play also is capable of a few poignant 
scenes, which are equally effective. It shows 
the pains of growing up and Charlie’s strug­
gle against his intellectually stifling home 
environment. It also deals with the associa­
tion of Charlie’s past history with his pres­
ent existence, and demonstrates that, try as 
he might, a person can’t free himself from 
his own origins.
The play’s direction can choose to 
emphasize either its humor or its more 
serious points. The Lab’s production has no 
specific director credited, but whoever did 
direct the play apparently decided to focus 
more on the humor, in my opinion to the 
detriment of the serious considerations of a 
person trying to come to grips with his past. 
The play’s funnier aspects cannot be 
ignored, but the humor would come 
through even if a more serious approach 
was used. As it is, I feel that some of the 
potential depth to the play has been glossed 
over for the sake of getting a few more 
laughs than were necessary; not much, but 
enough for the loss to be noticeable.
The production’s best feature is its cast. 
Stoll plays adult Charlie excellently, han­
dling his character’s humor and emotion 
quite well. He delivered his character’s sar­
castic and caustic comments and handled 
the emotions involved with reliving the past 
with equal ease. As Charlie’s younger coun­
terpart, Jeff Paul also performed decently. 
He seemed to have a litde trouble with over­
playing some of his first, younger scenes, 
but became increasingly better as his charac­
ter moved toward adulthood. O’Malley, as 
always, supplied a wonderful performance. 
Da’s character is rather static, but O’Malley 
made the best of the depth that was 
available.
The supporting cast was made up of 
G.W. Rooney, Johnette Sullivan, Joe 
Schad, Ruth Ann Rooney, and Trudy 
Beardry. Of these, Sullivan as Charlie’s 
mother was the most outstanding. The char­
acter was a perfect example of the stereotypi­
cal lower-class mother, and Sullivan’s 
performance was delightful.
continued on page 28
Allegheny 
Women's Center
¿n out pstient 
medical clinic offering
• jbori ion• Irre pregn-incy ti»sls• per sondi counseling• birth control service*• gy net ologu di idre• Morning Aller Iredtinent
362-2920
Med» «I Center (»I luiidang 
frnltwiM Righi (Mh Hoof)
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh. PA 1S2M
Allegheny
WomensCenter
abortion ctfunseliny sendee ii'iih UKirmth and dignity Jn>m peapU- Irho ran-
Bingo O’Malley and CMU Alumna Johnette Sullivan in Labs “Da”.
The story concerns Charlie Tynan 
(Robert Stoll), a successful author in Eng­
land who returns to his home in Ireland for 
his father’s funeral. There, he tries to erase 
his ‘Da’ (father, played by Bingo O’Malley) 
from his mind, along with all memories of 
his youth. However, Da’s memory is all too 
solid, and proves to be harder to get rid of 
than Charlie had hoped.
Da was a poor gardener filled with what 
he thought was good common sense and 
earthly wisdom, known to everyone else as 
utter nonsense. Charlie, a bright and literate 
child, was frustrated and resentful of his 
parents’ ignorance and lack of tolerance for 
things they could not understand. As an 
adult, he now re-experiences the major 
events and emotions of his childhood 
through flashbacks and tries to exorcise his
Looking ft» die excitement of a high quality graduate school research environment!
The University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Dallas is a maior center for research in the Biomedical Sciences Opportunities are available for highly individualized graduate research training programs with an outstanding faculty of 
over 250 investigators Attractive stipends are available
Areas of specialization
includeBiochemistry
Molecular Biology
PharmacologyBiophysicsImmunologyPhysiologyCell BiologyMicrobiology
For further information contact. 
J T Stull. Ph.D.. Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences. University 
of Texas Health Science Center. 5323 Harry Hines 
Blvd Dallas. Texas 75235 Phone 214/688-3310
UTHSCD is an equal opportunity university
Advanced A_I Micro Devices 
Catch the wave
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Staffurriter
Da is a very simple tide for a complex and 
fascinating play. Billed as “an amusing 
blend of heart-warming memory and cold, 
” the Pittsburgh Labora­
tory Theatre’s production of 
Hugh Leonard’s play delivers 
just that, and does so with a 
deal of humor and an
Excitement!
This is the challenge you’ve waited for, trained for, hoped for.
This is your chance to join the company that*s on the leading edge of every high-performance technology in the semiconductor industry.
This is your opportunity to interview with Advanced Micro Devices.
Sign up now at your Career Planning and Placement Center. If our schedule is full, 
send your resume to Toni Florian, Manager, College Recruiting, Dept. 
#CM*117, Advanced Micro Devices, 901 Thompson Place, P.O. Box 3453, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94088. An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Raiders battle Redskins in Super Bowl
"Chico” picks Raiders to winSuper Bowl XVIII
Location: Tampa Stadium, Tampa Bay, Florida.
Teams: NFC champion Washington Redskins, AFC champion Los 
Angeles Raiders.
Records: Redskins, 14-2. Raiders 12-4.
Coaches: Redskins, Joe Gibbs. Raiders, Tom Flores.
Regular Season Meeting: Redskins 37, Raiders 35.
Last year's game: Redskins over the Miami Dolphins.
Last year's MVP: Washington’s John Riggins.
Previous Super Bowls: Raiders are 2-1, Redskins 1-1.
Date: Sunday, January 22, 1984.
Network: CBS, channel 2 in Pittsburgh.
Announcers: Pat Summerall and John Madden.
By JEFF BERGMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The 1983 football season was once again 
rough sailing for the NFL. There was the 
USFL, the drug accusations, and the criti­
cism that parity was detracting from the 
excitement of the regular season.
However, for the third year in a row Pete 
Rozelle is smiling because the teams with 
the best record in the league are playing in 
the Super Bowl. Except for the 1983 Miami 
team, which was number two in the AFC 
last year, Cincinnati, San Francisco, 
Washington, and this year’s combatants, the 
Redskins and the Los Angeles Raiders, all 
had the best record in the conference.
So what does this tell us? By looking at the 
last two Super Bowls, we see that this will be 
a close, hard hitting affair. Another fact that 
supports this conclusion was the seasonal 
meeting between the two teams. The Raiders 
watched as Redskin quarterback Joe Theis- 
mann led this offense on a last-minute drive 
win 37-35 at RFK stadium. The Raiders had 
come back from a large deficit to take the 
lead, but the Redskins pulled it out.
Still, the question remains—who’s going 
to win Jan. 22 in Tampa? In the Redskins’ 
two losses this year, they were simply out- 
scored, 31-30 by Dallas and 48-47 by Green 
Bay. Is Los Angeles capable of doing this? 
They averaged 28 pts. a game during the 
season and almost accomplished it before.
How do the Raiders lose? They get beaten 
when they turn over the ball early in the 
game and the other team gets a lead. This 
forces slow moving quarterback Jim Plun­
kett into the pocket which leads to more 
interceptions and fumbles. Can the Redskins 
convert the turnovers into points? 
That’s their strong point.
However, the big question has not been 
answered—who’s going to get the Lom­
bardi Trophy? Answer: the Los Angeles 
Raiders. Why? The first reason is defense. 
Ever since A1 Davis signed Mike Haynes to
play comerback along with Lester Hayes, 
the Raider defense has been impregnable. 
They have an excellent combination of 
speed in Hayes, Haynes, strong safety Mike 
Davis and linebacker Rod Martin, and power 
with the bad boys up front, Ted Hendricks, 
Howie Long, Matt Millen, and Lyle Alzado 
They intimidated and finished the Sea- 
hawks and Steelers in the playoff victories 
and will try to do the same against Washing­
ton. They probably won’t be as successful, 
but the Redskins are still a young team on 
offense, so the possibility exists.
The second reason is offense. The Raiders 
are blessed with the fact that their star half­
back, Marcus Allen, is now at the top of his 
game. He gained 216 yards in total yardage 
last week in the Raiders’ 30-14 win against 
Seattle and ripped the Steelers the week 
before. An interesting note is that Allen 
didn’t play in the 37-35 loss to Washington. 
With him in the ball game, the Redskins’ 
defense will look more for the run which 
should open up the Raider passing game to 
Cliff Branch and Todd Christensen.
The third reason L.A. will win is A1 
Davis. There’s a mystique about the man 
that carries along into the team he owns. 
Whenever there’s a big game against a team 
that is popular with the NFL office, Davis 
sends this kind of this evil force through his 
team that shows up on the field of play. This 
sort of an intangible is hard to explain but 
it just happens.
This is not to say that the Raiders are 
going to stomp all over Washington. It’s 
pretty hard to stomp on a team that has lost 
3 times in its last 31 games and has shown 
domination not seen since the 1978 Pitts­
burgh Steelers. The offense is like clockwork 
and is the most potent in the league’s his­
tory. The defense, backed by nose tackle 
Dave Butz, is underrated and prides itself on 
creating turnovers.
The predicted game day result: Special 
teams will not play an important role
because the game will be won on the line of 
scrimmage. The Raiders will stop John 
Riggins in the first half and take a big lead 
by avoiding the turnovers and mixing up 
the offense. At the half the score will be 20-7 
Los Angeles. In the second half, the Redskin 
defense will bring their team back into the 
game with a Jim Plunkett fumble that 
Theismann will put into the end zone on a 
pass to Art Monk. The Raiders will then get 
lucky as a pass over the middle to Malcolm 
Barnwell turns into a 101 yard touchdown 
pass as Darrell Green falls. With the score 
27-14, the Redskin defense will again come 
away with a turnover that Washington puts 
into the end zone on a Riggins run with
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
Here is a breakdown of the two teams in this 
year’s Super Bowl, the Washington Red­
skins and the Los Angeles Raiders.
Quarterback: Definite advantage to the 
’Skins. Joe Theismann throws better, runs 
better, and thinks better than Jim Plunkett. 
In the first meeting of these teams early in 
the season, Plunkett threw four touchdown 
passes. He will be hard pressed to repeat this 
performance. Advantage: Redskins.
Running backs: John Riggins scored 29 
touchdowns in 18 games. Not bad. Marcus 
Allen had 217 overall yards (running and 
receiving) against Seatde. Riggins gets a 
slight edge, but that edge is negated by the 
efforts of the Raiders’ Kenny King and 
Frank Hawkins. Advantage: none.
Offensive line: Joe Jacoby is 306 pounds, 
and when he is blocking on a sweep in front 
of Riggins or Joe Washington, it is simply 
awesome sight. He leads the “Hogs” into 
battle against the Raiders. Jacoby, Russ 
Grimm, George Starke and the rest create 
holes you could drive a truck through. The 
Raiders are tough up front, led by veteran 
center Dave Dalby. Advantage: Redskins.
Receivers: Todd Christensen led the NFL 
with 92 receptions. Cliff Branch is still a 
deep threat, but the ’Skins’ Art Monk and 
Charlie Brown negate any advantage 
Branch may have. However, Don Warren 
and Rick Walker combined don’t equal 
Christensen at tight end. Alvin Garrett may 
be a force off the bench for the Redskins. 
Advantage: Raiders.
Defensive line: Howie Long is all-pro at 
end for the Raiders, and Dave Butz is all-pro 
J at tackle for the ’Skins. Lyle Alzado (Raid-
8:35 left. After L.A. fails to move the ball, 
Theismann again drives the offense down 
field as the boys finally get in touch and 
open up some holes. However, the Raider 
defense will stop the drive on a Ted Hen­
dricks deflection of a pass at the ten forcing 
Coach Joe Gibbs to kick the field goal, 27- 
24, 4:41 left. The Raiders’ offense again will 
fail to move the ball with Frank Hawkins 
getting stopped on a 3rd and 2. The Red­
skins will get the ball and move on the most 
dramatic drive in Super Bowl history, but 
Mark Moseley will miss a 38-yaider with 
no time left.
Final Score: Los Angeles 27, Washington 
24.
ers) and Dexter Manley (Redskins) are fierce 
pass rushers at right end for each team. Reg­
gie Kinlaw is at nose tackle for the Raiders, 
but no one stands out here. Advantage: 
none.
Linebackers: Raiders have two of the best 
in football in Rod Martin and Ted Hen­
dricks. The ’Skins play well in conjunction 
with their line, but no big names in this 
unit. Neal Olkewicz led the ‘Skins in tackles. 
Advantage: Raiders.
Defensive backs: Darrell Green may be the 
best last-pick-in-the-first-round choice in 
the history of the NFL. Mark Murphy is a 
great safety. But with comerbacks Mike 
Haynes and Lester Hayes, the Raiders may 
have the best two in football, not to mention 
all-pro safety Vann McElroy, who tied for 
the AFC lead in interceptions. Advantage: 
Raiders.
Kicking game: Mark Moseley is a better 
kicker than Chris Bahr, simply stated. 
Advantage: Redskins.
Coaches: Joe Gibbs came from San Diego 
with Dan Coryell’s offense that leads the 
league every year. Gibbs added to that 
offense a short passing, game, and a run­
ning game, thanks to Riggins. He has an 
incredible record since taking over the Red­
skins, and in my estimation is second only to 
Don Shula in coaching ability. If this game 
is won on pure talent, then the Raiders 
should win. But Tom Flores will be out- 
coached by Gibbs, and it will make a diff­
erence.
Despite an even breakdown of on the field 
players, I believe Redskins coach Joe Gibbs 
and the Redskins enthusiasm will not be 
overcome by the Raider bad boys. Predic­
tion: Washington 31, Los Angeles 17.
CDL 's Bowl Breakdown
Quarterback 
Running Backs 
Offensive line 
Receivers 
Defensive Line
Los Angeles
*
:
*Linebackers *
Special Teams
* Coach. ?<*' 'v <<v^i'' - 'p> -i- J Sfcfcw'-yWhW Wa •• '¦¦-v* \ , ^ ^ < ' --y V J--. ' V" ' '* Intangibles
Home Field
Weather *
* Prediction
Super Bowl XVIII Predictions
compiled by Christopher D. Lewis and Sean Quinn 
Tartan Staff
Christopher D. Lewis Washington 31, L.A. 17
Jeff Bergman L.A. 27, Washington 24
Rie Medrow Washington 24, L.A. 21
Hal Cohen L.A. 31, Washington 21
Sean Quinn Washington 31, L.A. 24
Margaret Wismer L.A. 27, Washington 20
Neil Greenblum Washington 30, L.A. 27
Dave Lafyatis Washington 34, L.A. 7
Bob Aarhus L.A. 24, Washington 17
Sports Information Director Bruce Gerson Washington 31, L.A. 28 
Athletic Director James Banner L.A. 27, Washington 21 
Intramural Director Earl J. Birdy L.A. 28, Washington 14 
Assistant A.D. Joan Maser Washington 21, L.A. 14 
Football (bach Chuck Ria using Washington 24, L.A 21
Lewis picks 'Skins due to
Theismann and Gibbs' skill

---------------------------------------------------

The President’s Distinguished lecture Series Presents
Henry Charles Lea Professor of History, 
Princeton University
’ From Alms to Bribes: Gift-giving in 16th Century France ”
Thursday, January19,1984 4 30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, ShihoCMU
Ms. Davis is a pioneering historian in the use of anthro­
pology and sociology to understand past societies. Her 
specialty is early modern France, and she has written 
many articles and review essays on that subject. Author 
of the highly acclaimed book SOCIETY AND CULTURE 
IN EARLY MODERN FRANCE, she recently served as 
historical consultant to the French film team that wrote 
and directed THE RETURN OF MARTIN GUERRE. Her 
work on the movie led to a scholarly book with the same 
title.
A recipient of numerous awards for teaching and his­
torical studies, Natalie Zemon Davis most recently was 
presented the Howard T. Behrman Award for Distin­
guished Achievement in the Humanities at Princeton 
Universtiy in May, 1983.
Ms. Davis will discuss the anthropology and sociology 
of gift-giving and the role of exchange in an early mod­
ern society. A variety of gift exchanges are considered 
— within families, between patron and client, king and 
subjects, among neighbors, and rich and poor — and 
conflicts about their meaning are considered.

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—The Tartan—Page 17
asketball Tartans fall in an even challenqe
CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
an Assistant Sports Editor 
wo basketball teams met in Skibo Gym 
,t started the year with high hopes. Each 
m came into this Presidents’ Athletic 
nference opener with a 2-5 record. Each 
m had faced major roadblocks. It seemed 
e it would be a good match.
\ good match it was. But for the tenth 
in their last eleven meetings, the 
hany Bisons prevailed over the Tartans, 
57. First team all-PAC forward Doug 
ick led the Bisons with nineteen points, 
ile forward Frank Yankovich had seven - 
Greg Gabriel and Robert Kukowski 
red twelve and eleven points respectively 
CMU, while George Debski had ten 
ints and twelve rebounds, 
t was the Tartans’ shooting that lost their 
th consecutive game. Head Coach Larry 
derson said, “You can die by the bomb, 
u can’t win by shooting thirty-footers.” 
e Tartans made 39 percent of their field 
Is for the game and just 29 percent in the 
Pt half. Herb Sendek, who made four of 
seven shots, was the only Tartan over 
H percent. The entire Bison team shot 50 
I cent in both halves, making 21 of 42 for 
1 game.
1'Both teams played hard,” said Bethany 
|ach James Zalacca. “We each had to han-
¦ adversity with our injuries and their aca- 
nic suspension of Bennett.” The Tartans 
be lost their leading scorer, senior Pete Ben- 
net t, to academic pressures. This seemingly 
¦hits the outside offense to Gabriel. But 
^Hbnel tried to do too much against 
¦¦hany and shot six-of-fifteen from the 
|^pd. John Taormina and Herb Sendek 
flSth have good outside shots but have yet to 
jj^fcve this in game situations. Taormina 
Jh Sendek started at guard Wednesday 
night.
The Tartans did an admirable job in 
defending Black, Bethany’s 20 point-per- 
game scorer, making his shots tough. Black 
shot eight for nineteen, but he was con­
stantly double-teamed, leaving Yankovich 
open for easy fifteen foot jumpers. Bethany 
also had nine steals, four by Yankovich, 
while the Tartans had only three, all by 
Gabriel.
The Tartans hustled, dove, scrapped, and 
banged people around, but just didn’t run 
their offense well. The Bisons took a 27-23 
lead in the first half on Black’s twelve points. 
But CMU scored the first nine points of the 
second half to take a 32-27 lead, which 
included a key three-point play by center 
Richard Neff and a twenty-foot jumper by 
Gabriel. Anderson told his team to “ ‘take 
your time, run the clock, get something 
easy.’ But when Bethany went back up, they 
ran their offense, and we didn’t. We just got 
a little anxious. We need to be more patient. 
When a guy takes 30-footers, I have to take 
him out of the game. Then I put in a sub, 
and he thinks it’s okay, so he shoots 30- 
footers, and I have to take him out of the 
game, and put back the first guy. We need to 
run our offense.”
Black is trying to lead the Bisons to a good 
season in the PAC. The leadership role 
“dropped into my hands,” said Black. Two 
juniors are injured, and besides senior 
Black, all the players are freshmen and 
sophomores. “We’ll have to work three 
times as hard.”
As for the Tartans, thirteen games 
remain, and the team is now in the midst of 
a six game losing streak. This is a young 
team, with no seniors, so everyone returns 
next year. Young players, such as Debski, 
must begin to make their mark. Sophomore 
guard Ray Brennan is tearing up the junior 
varsity league, and it seems to be a matter of
Bethany’s Doug Black rejects Greg Gabriel’s attempt to score.
photo by John Rogers
time before he becomes a force. Taormina 
and Sendek gain confidence every game. Ander­
son may say the future is now, but perhaps 
things are just beginning to come together.
MARGARET MORRISON 
PLAZA STORES 
WELCOMES EVERYONE BACK
Sui cdedv tmdri b* 7df dvi7 mby 66nKK và&à Md7day muru Frbday, a7d tu7day 66nKK aà&à md 8nKK và&à tamurday udur* ari *mbyy 6KnKK aà&à md 6nKK và&à Sui *mdri 
dffir* diyb, bakiry vrdducm*, ca7dy, *7ack*, fri*u frubm & vrdduci, *dda, dabry vrdducm*, frdzi7 fddd*, a7d &a7y dmuir *mavyi bmi&*à Fdr b7fdr&ambd7 cayy 
ixmi7*bd7 8877à 
Sui cabir cyub b* 7df dvi7 Md7day, Wid7i*day, & Frbday &dr7b7g* am 7n3K aà&à fdr ayy ydur &dr7b7g ixircb*i 7iid*à Sui dmuir day* mui udur* ri&ab7 mui 
*a&ià Ammi7da7m* ari vri*i7m md fiycd&i a7d advb*i &i&bir*à Fdr b7fdr&ambd7 d7 &i&bir*ubv fii* dr fdr a7 avvdb7m&i7m cayy ixmi7*bd7 8876à 
Sui Pyaza cyia7ir*/Lau7dry b* avabyabyi fdr ayy ydur dry cyia7b7g a7d yau7dry 7iid*à A7 ammi7da7m b* avabyabyi frd& yOfyO aà&à md 6nKK và&à md uiyv advb*i ydu 
fbmu a7y vrdbyi&* muam &bgum arb*ià tmarmb7g *dd7 mui Pyaza cyia7ir* fbyy bi dffirb7g a vbck uv a7d diybviry *irvbci md ydur ca&vu* addri** fdr ayy df ydur dry 
cyia7b7g a7d *ubrm 7iid*à Fdr b7fdr&ambd7 cayy ixmi7*bd7 8878à 
tirvbci* am mui Margarim Mdrrb*d7 Pyaza tmdri* ca7 bi vabd vba a *mdri* accdu7m, fbmu ca*u, dr by cuick fbmu cMU bdi7mbfbcambd7à Fdr b7fdr&ambd7 d7 dvi7b7g a 
*mdri* accdu7m cayy ixmi7*bd7 8877à

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—January 17, 1984
Joan Maser promoted to head of women's sports
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffurriter
She posted two straight Penn wood West 
Conference Championhips in Field 
Hockey. She has been CMU’s women’s 
athletic trainer for the past three years. And 
now, Joan Maser can add another cap to her 
hat rack. Maser has been named Assistant 
Athletic Director for Women’s Athletics. 
What all that means is that Maser is in 
charge of CMU women’s sports.
Maser expressed both shock and excite­
ment upon the announcement. She has 
ailed it “a good step up.”
Maser’s background includes four years as 
an undergraduate at the University of Pitts­
burgh, earning a bachelors degree in physi­
cal education in 1979 and additional 
graduate work at Pitt, earning a masters 
degree in exercise physiology in 1983.
Maser is "friends with all the girls” 
through her work with them on the field or 
in the training room, and she is very “com­
fortable with them. I’ll be looking for their 
ideas, because it is their program.”
Maser replaces Jane Fisk, who stepped 
down from that position, but will continue 
to coach the women’s volleyball team and 
the fencing teams. CMU Athletic Director, 
Jim Banner, stated that Fisk did “a commen­
dable job particularly in organizing the Pen- 
nwood Conference West’s women’s athletic
league.” she’ll “try to get the coaches involved. After
Maser said she will look to both Fisk and all, they know their sports better than' 
Banner for assistance, but most importantly, anyone.’ ’
We’ll be on campus 
Monday & Tuesday 
January 23 & 24
Interested candidates are invited to join us for an INFORMAL PRESENTATION 
on Monday, January 23 from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. at Skibo Hail, Room 11. Refresh­
ments will be served.
Our environment requires individuals with a high degree of initiative, strong 
communication skills and demonstrated leadership abilities. For this recruit­
ing season, we are primarily seeking computer science and electrical engi­
neering candidates with BS and MS degrees. New graduates join project ' 
teams as Hardware or Software Design Engineers (working in areas such as 
digital telephones, data communications, local area networks, packet switch­
ing, linear predictive coding of voice, realtime software and relational data 
bases), Production Engineers (introducing the product to the manufacturing 
process), or Product Support, Sales or Field Service Engineers (providing 
customer support). Qualified candidates who are unable to secure an inter­
view slot will be considered if they submit their resumes via the Engineering 
1 FMibement Office.
Contact Ybur Placement Office Now for an ji
Appointment and Literature
Frankly, 
you’ll prefer free checking at Dollar Bank.
So tell those 
other banks to go 
fly a kite.
Why pay for checking when you can get it free 
at Dollar Bank? At Dollar, there’s no minimum 
balance, no monthly fee and no other accounts 
are required. So you can save a little for a change. 
After all, a penny saved is a penny earned.
So save hundreds of pennies each and every month— 
and get a worry free account along with the additional 
benefits of MAO' and Pay#By#Phone—with 
free checking at Dollar Bank. Stop in and see why, 
frankly, we think you’ll prefer free checking.
And Dollar Bank.
i
Dollar Bank
WHKRK YOUR MONEY TALKS.
A FEW MORE REMARKABLE FACTS ABOUT ROLM . . .
¦ Tuition reimbursement for graduate study, comprehensive health, dental 
and life insurance, profit sharing and stock purchase plan.
¦ 3-month paid sabbatical after 6 continuous years of employment.
¦ Active housing program for all new hires.
Additional information may be obtained from Shirley McDonell, Recruitment Admin­
istrator, Mail Stop 350, ROLM Corporation, 4900 Old Ironsides Drive, Santa Clara, 
CA 95050. We are proud to be an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
RObm
CORPORATION
photo by John Rogeft
Coach Larry Anderson talks to forward Rob Kiikowski. The Tartans went to Case Western 1 
Saturday and lost their seventh straight, 86-62. The Tartans were led by George Debski’s 28 
points and John Taormina’s 11.
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
AND ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING MAJORS
THE MOVE IS ON TO
... A REMARKABLE COMPUTER COMPANY with locations through­
out the U.S. and Canada. ROLM’s breadth and diversity are apparent in its expand­
ing divisions:
¦ TELECOMMUNICATIONS designs and manufactures digital com­
puter-controlled business communication systems for voice, data and text 
switching and management.
¦ OFFICE SYSTEMS develops and manufactures office of the future 
products.
¦ ROCO sells and supports these products through a national sales and 
service network.
¦ MIL-SPEC COMPUTER develops, manufactures and sells ruggedized 
computer systems.
MOVE ON TO THE FREEDOM OF ROLM, where high value is placed on 
personal initiative, creativity and rapid career movement and where the spacious, 
award-winning environment was designed with your personal and professional well­
being in mind.

---------------------------------------------------

A uniquely versatile mattress
by night
COLLEGE SPRINGBREAK
ALSO AVAILABLE 
BUS TRANSPORTATION $109** 
LAND PACKAGE ONLY $10?**
What do all these companies and agencies have in common ?
All hired recent SUPA graduates.
That’s SUPA!
To find out more about SUPA, the School of Urban and Public Affairs at 
Carnegie-Mellon University, and preparation for a career in public, private or 
nonprofit agency management and policy analysis,
come to the
SUPA Open House
Monday, January 23rd 3:30p.m. MMC Room 102 
RSVP 578-2164 
Talk with current SUPA students and faculty
_ SUPA Facts
• Outstanding faculty
• Computer-based education oriented to tomorrow’s 
job markets 
e Internships and project courses 
e 100% of financial need met by SUPA merit 
scholarships, other fellowships, assistantships, 
work study, and graduate loans 
e FuH-time Placement Director
• Excellent placement record
• 3-1-1 program for CMU juniors
rug
iDDDI
Beachcomber Tours
introducing... 
the JapaneseHÍT0N(foo-tahn)
Featuring layer upon layer of 100% fancy 
blend cotton batting encased in heavy 
mattress ticking. Available in 6 sizes 
...crib to king...and in four styles: 
standard, extra thick, standard 
with foam core and extra thick 
with foam core. All with 
accompanying custom Futon 
furniture, coordinated covers 
and assorted pillows.FREE DELIVERY 
SEPTEMBER jfl|PfSP
exclusively at
THE LINEN CLOSET It A TEC ( ) L L E G E
Corner of Walnut Street and Maryland Avenue • 412/362-8045 
112 N. Church Street, Boalsburg, PA 16827 • 814/466-7332
The Nwhs parofCC
March 23-April 1
TOUR INCLUDES...by day
• Round trip motor coach to Daytona Beach
• First Class Ocean Front Accommodations
• Welcome Party with plenty of FREE BEER
• Discount ID Card
• OPTIONAL: Kitchenettes, Disney World Epcot Center
‘Price LAM Not Include Additional $39 00 loi tai. service A gratuities.
‘MAKE Reservations by January 1st, 84 and
$25.00 DEPOSIT REQUIHED 
LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLESAVE $20°°
CONTACT
TONY
578-4795
Beachcomber(716) 632-3723
car7igbiMimíd7 U7bvir*bmy

---------------------------------------------------

Pag» 20—Th* Tartan—January 17, 1984
Hockey is no longer a "guts-and-grind" game
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tarttm Staffwriter
There used to be a time when a hockey 
team giving up four goals per game had a 
hard time posing a winning record. The 
Stanley Cup winner had the best regular 
-^ ' season goals against average,
and their goaltender won the 
Vezina (best goaltender) trophy. 
A typical final score was 3-1. A 
high final score was 5-3. Rarely, a team 
might score six goals.
How times change. While the reigning 
champion Islanders do have one of the 
league’s better goals against averages 
(second to Boston with 3.49), and Billy 
Smith is unquestionably the best money 
goalie around, the best record in the league 
belongs to the Edmonton Oilers (and damn 
the 4.02 goals against!).
High scoring has become the rule and not 
by accident. Rule changes have made obso­
lete the hard-hitting, guts-and-grind game 
that brought championships to Philadel­
phia and Boston in the early seventies. Even
then, more emphasis was being placed on 
goals and assists as Bobby Orr redefined 
the role of the defenseman, and Phil Esposito 
scored 76 goals in 78 games (“Jesus saves, 
but Esposito scores on the rebound”).
Reinforcing trends toward the statistical, 
rather than the physical, were additional 
rule changes that eliminated the time con­
suming, bench-clearing brawls that came 
into vogue in the mid-seventies. Speed was 
stressed. Fans saw the demise of the three- 
hour game, and the fleet-footed Canadians 
won the cup. The final blow was the expan­
sion/merger of the NHL and now-defunct 
WHA (World Hockey Association) in the 
1979-80 season, and the NHL debut of 
Wayne Gretzky.
Average goals against in 1981-82 was 4.02. 
Today it is 4.28. A common tendency is for 
fans to put most of the credit (or blame) in 
the magic hands of the Great Gretzky. At his 
current pace, he should break all his own 
season scoring records with projected final 
totals of 95 goals and 144 assists for 239 
points. He should also surpass Gordie
Howe’s record 801 goals in six years and 
Howes’s record 1850 points in five.
Gretzky is more or less alone in this strata: 
no player is close to him in goals, assists or 
points. However, more players are scoring 
more goals. Only one team is scoring an 
average of fewer than three goals per game 
(New Jersey, at 2.78). More importantly, no 
team is giving up fewer than three goals per 
game. Only three goalies, Pete Peeters and 
Doug Keans of Boston and A1 Jensen of 
Washington, have a personal goals-against 
of less than three.
Goal tenders have wrongly taken a good 
bit of the blame for the higher final scores; 
the ones who liave been hurt most are the 
older goalies. A younger man may break in 
with high figures, while an older man will 
often be dismissed for equal statistics. For 
example, Michel (Bunny) Larocque was 
recently sold to St. Louis for an undisclosed 
amount of cash despite a career goals against 
of 3.29, which would rank him among the 
top seven or eight today.
Larocque possesses something rare
Wfete looking for people who 
can see beyond the obvious.
If Christopher Columbus had been 
content to ship cargo around the 
Mediterranean, he would have missed the 
opportunity to discover the New World.
If LINKABIT engineers weren’t 
thinking about what could be, instead of 
what is, we wouldn’t be at the forefront of 
the telecommunications industry.
Thanks to a cadre of conceptual 
achievers, however, LINKABIT has 
continued to set the standard in diverse 
and complex projects such as MILSTAR 
terminals, video scrambling equipment, 
domestic satellite systems, modems, 
codecs, advanced processors and fault- 
tolerant systems.
Now, we’re looking for more of the 
same kinds of thinkers to join our ranks in 
the following areas:
• Satellite Data Communications
• Satellite Network Technologies
• Information and Network Security
• Speech Coding and Compression
• Local Digital Switching Systems
• Modulation and Coding Techniques
• Synchronization Techniques
• Advanced Digital 
Signal Processing
The creative, free-thinking 
atmosphere at LINKABIT promotes 
excellence and is a reflection of our 
physical environment. San Diego, 
America’s Finest City in location, climate, 
cultural and recreational facilities, offers
you and your family an unsurpassed 
lifestyle. This invigorating setting, 
combined with the challenge, satisfaction, 
and reward of a career at LINKABIT, 
provides an unbeatable opportunity to 
fulfill your goals. Opportunities are also 
available in the Washington, D.C. area 
and Boston.
Technical Talk & Company Presentation
Thursday, January 19 
7:30 PM Adamson Auditorium 
Located In Baker Hall
Refreshments will be served.
On Campus Interviews 
Friday, January 20
Please contact your College Placement 
Office to arrange an on-campus interview. 
If you are unable to meet with our 
representatives, please forward your 
resume with college transcripts to:
Dennis Vincent, M/A-C0M LINKABIT, 
3033 Science Park Road, San Diego,
CA 92121.
M/A-COM LINKABIT, INC.
Equal Opportunity 
Affirmative Action Employer
among contemporary goaltenders: expe 
rience. Boston’s league leading trio of 
Keans, Peeters and Mike Moffat don’t have' 
as many combined years of experience as 
Chicago’s 17 year veteran Tony Esposito 
Oily five teams are anchored by goalies 
with more than ten years of experience 
Pittsburgh has two in Michel Dion and Den. 
nis Herron, and Minnesota’s workhorse 
Gilles Meloche, is in his 14th season. The 
exuberant 11-year veteran Glenn Resch 
(New Jersey), despite poor statistics, is one of 
the better goalies in the league. Twelve-year 
veteran Dan Bouchard is having his best 
season ever in Quebec, and nobody can com " ¦ 
plain about 13-year man Billy Smith.
Most teams with older goalies tend to give 
the veteran the job, and to have a younger 
man back him up. Those banking on youth 
in goal will usually have at least two pros­
pects waiting in the wings. But it is the first 
system that has proven most successful in 
terms of championships. Boston won with 
Gerry Cheevers. Philadelphia with Bemie 
Parent. Montreal with Dryden. And the 
Islanders with Smith.
Defense and goal tending win Stanley 
cups. You can’t lose if your opponents don’t 
score. When it comes time for final round of 
playoffs, scores aren’t 6-3 or 7-6 — or 12-8. 
Today’s teams have no problem scoring 
goals. It is the team that prevents the goals 
that will win in the end. Giving up 4.02 
goals per game may not hurt Edmonton in 
the regular season, but they won’t be scoring 
6.02 per game in the Stanley Cup round.
Yes, the game has changed. Regular sea­
son hockey does not stress defense as it once 
did. Skill levels have averaged out to where 
most players will be scoring more goals. 
There are 150-200 more players in the league 
today than in the early seventies and more’ 
than four times as many players as before the 
original 1967 expansion. Still an elite group 
but less select than before.
New standards and new stabilities will 
emerge in time. But it is inexorable, as 
proven by records, that the team with thej 
best defense and the experienced clutch goahj 
tender will win the Stanley Cup. It isonlyaf 
matter of rime before Wayne Gretzky 
becomes an accepted anomaly and coaches 
and players concentrate not on imitating! 
him but on stopping him. Chances are, 
Edmonton’s statistics wouldn’t be quite as 
impressive in a division more competitive! 
than the Smythe (a.k.a. “Swiss Cheese | 
where four of the five teams aren’t ever closet 
to .500. Realistically, there’s only one wav 
for scoring inflation to go — down.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
ayyigui7y 
rivrdducmbvi 
uiaymu 
ci7mir
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—The Tartan—Page 21
artan basketball coach wins Man of the Year
MARGARET WISMER
Staffuniter
Larry Anderson’s sportsmanlike fanati- 
m doesn’t end with being Tartan basket- 
ll coach. This year’s new coach extends 
,iself beyond his regular athletics job to 
lunteer his time, inspiration and skill to 
il kids of all ages and backgrounds. His 
Jrthy reputauon has earned him the 
:t manifested in his receiving of the 
|Hant Ladies Man of the Year award.
ierson was associated with Point Park 
Iketball for about fourteen years, playing 
m undergrad and coaching as an alum- 
1. He also was Point Park housing direc- 
for a while and eventually became 
Jstant dean of students. He is constandy 
ang new challenges. This year marks his 
one as a collegiate head coach, 
iderson helps out at the Ozanam Cultu- 
;nter located in the Hill District and 
|ch caters to the educational and social 
of kids in western Pennsylvania, 
lie training youngsters in the techniques 
isketball, he provides them with per- 
[l guidance and becomes a role model, 
jlso has worked with children at the St. 
r’s Development Center which aids the
photo by John Rogers
Larry Anderson shows his enthusiasm.
handicapped in assimilating a normal lifes­
tyle. In the past Anderson has worked at the 
State Juvenile Home and the Three Rivers 
Youth Home.
In regard to his coaching job here, Ander­
son points out that “the situation is new to 
everyone” but doesn’t foresee any major set­
backs. He believes the team has “a lot erf 
character” and is encouraging more of a 
running game. Overall, he is enthusiastic 
about working with and building on a great 
group of players.
Anderson made it clear in accepting his 
award from the Gallant Ladies of Pitts­
burgh that in reality he “shared it with 
many people.” During his speech he took 
the time to thank those who had worked 
with and helped him help others.Wfe take care of our own.Theunited way
United Wby
Front TERADYNE 
A Very Large Scale Invitation 
from a Technology Leader
In electronics, the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has 
arrived, leaving many companies with products suddenly obsolete 
and engineering staffs struggling to catch up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to $62 million spent on R & D in 
1980-1982, Teradyne was ready and waiting for VLSI
Ready with VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, 
board testers
Ready in Boston, Ma. and Woodland Hills. Calif., where 
Teradyne develops ATE for the electronics industry.
Ready in Deerfield. Illinois, center for Teradyne s telephone 
system testing operations ^
Ready in Nashua. New Hampshire, where Teradyne produces 
backplane connection systems and state-of-the-art circuit board 
technology designed to meet VLSI packaging requirements
This kind of technology leadership spells growth Excitement 
Challenge Career opportunities 
you just can 7 find anywhere else.
Teradyne A company 
ahead of its time, 
looking for some good 
people to keep it ahead
For more information, see 
your Placement Counselor
WE MEASURE UR

---------------------------------------------------

An Evening With the Pat Metheny G roup
Carnegie Music Hall 
(Carnegie Institute)
Thursday, February 9, 1984 7:30 p.m.$6.50 with CMU ID, $9.00 otherwise. Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk, Pitt Ticket Office, M-F 9-5 and Heads Together.Tickets go on sale January 20, 1984 9 a.m.For more information call 578-2107.
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1984—'The Tartan—Page 23
NEWS RELEASE
I kelson L. Goldberg, the President and 
Chief Executive Officer of Total Communi­
cation Systems in New Kensington, PA, is 
pleased to announce the appointment of 
James A. Augustine as Sales Manager for 
¡TCS Sales and Service.
Jim will be responsible for managing 
sales of advertising in TCS Sports Program­
ming including Penn State Football, Bas­
ketball and Pitt Football shows, TCS Video
Library, PIAA sports and additional sports 
syndication and programming, as well as 
TCS’ Meadows Racing Cable Network.
His responsibities will also include the 
New Pittsburgh-Cleveland-Erie-Harrisburg 
regional cable television interconnect sales 
division for TCS which includes TCS’ Mea­
dows Racing Cable Network.
Upon graduation from the University of 
Dayton, where he majored in Economics, 
his career in advertising sales began at Gate­
USA and CNN satellite services as well as 
local origination programming.
Jim, a former native of Natrona Heights, 
married Judith McLain in May of 1979, and 
they have two sons; Tim and Joel. He and 
his family reside in Penn Hills.
Jim Augustine brings to TCS over 10 
years of advertising sales experience and a 
bright and ambitious approach. TCS 
wishes him the very best of luck and looks 
forward to having him with us for many 
years!
way Broadcasting where he held the posi­
tions of Account Executive for both WKPA 
1150 AM and WYDD 104.7 FM, as well as 
General Sales Manager.
Jim then spent four years with Hearst 
Broadcasting selling advertising on WXKX 
radio — now YVHTX.
In 1982, he joined Warner Cable Corpora­
tion of Pittsburgh and became the Advertis­
ing Sales Manager in charge of developing 
and staffing a department responsible for 
the sale of local ad avails for ESPN, MTV,
Wrestling 
is in futureIntramural
withdraw! 
symptoms?
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Joe Kuefler is a man with a dream. “I am 
loping to get a varsity wrestling program 
itarted at CMU within the next two or three 
/ears.” Kuefler, a CMU freshman who 
Svresded four varsity seasons in high school, 
las been working diligently for the pastcou- 
)le of months. Kuefler has been making 
josters and distributing forms to help gener­
ate interest among students who have pre- 
rious wresding experience and students 
jvho are wanting to learn how to wresde.
There is no varsity wrestling at CMU sup­
posedly because of a lack of interest. But 
many teams in the President’s Athletic Con­
ference field strong wrestling squads, 
ncluding Case Western Reserve and John 
Larroll, and CMU had a varsity wrestling 
program until the mid-1970’s.
| Since then, the program has deteriorated 
L two-day intramural tournament. Alan 
Darr, who wrestled as an undergraduate at 
renn State, was commissioner last year. At a 
ecent organizational meeting, Darr 
Remarked, “The program has been very dis­
appointing over the last few years. All that 
has been is a few weeks of practicing and 
pe tournament at the end. Hopefully, it will 
pally get started now.” 
f Right now, much is still up in the air as to 
phat the program will include.
J Obviously, varsity status is still far off. 
two possibilities that Kuefler is currendy 
pcploring are: either forming teams within 
he unversity in an intramural set-up, or 
lossibly contacting other small colleges in 
he area and wrestling with them in a club 
prmat. Both ideas have their flaws. An 
ptramural program would require at least 
|0 people, which is about 15 more than are 
prrently signed up. A club would have to 
lorry about transportation to other col- 
Iges, and also would make it difficult for 
he rookie wrestlers to get established.
I Kuefler is extremely optimistic, however. 
¡From the number of people that signed up, 
I is obvious that there is a real strong interest 
»ere in wrestling. We have a good distribu- 
|on of weight classes, and many of the 
presders had won titles as high school 
prestlers. Wrestling is the fastest sport that 
|asts’ because you are always competing 
pith someone of your own weight. It also 
lets you in fantastic shape, and builds high 
puscle content.”
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffwriter
Welcome back intramural fans! I sin­
cerely hope you didn’t have IM withdrawl 
symptoms over the holiday break. Also, this 
is our last chance to make some belated 
congratulatory notices. In soccer, the cham­
pions are: majors — GSLA; intermediates — 
ATO; minors — SN; women — 
SAMorewood and KKG. In racquetball, the 
champ is PKT. Finally, in 3-person volley­
ball, the winners are: majors — Coaches 
All-Stars; intermediates — Pilam-A; minors
— DUII.
For those who still need to participate in 
even more intramurals, here comes a bunch 
of stuff you can do. Chess, darts, basketball 
and handball. Rosters are due Tuesday, Jan­
uary 17 at 4:30. Also, a basketball rules clinic 
will be held that Tuesday, at 4:30 in the 
women’s gym. Finally, Thursday, January 
26, at 4:30 is the due date for wresding and 
bridge, so hurry, or surely you will not play.
Amdahl, the progressive, computer company that offers an 
alternative in large-scale systems, is coming to tell you about 
our career opportunities. Join the team that reaches for the 
phenomenal, in the environment that is uniquely Amdahl.
Campus Interviews
Thursday 
February 2PREGNANT?
And you didn't mmmn to b*?
por a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621-1988
Check with your Career Planning and Placement Center for 
Amdahl literature and interview information.
We are an equal opportunity employer through affirmative 
action.
Local man hired as President of Total Communications
amdahl

---------------------------------------------------

5oon! A Chance- To
EVEN STRAIGHT A S CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION
Today, the toughest thing about going 
to college is finding the money to pay for it. 
But Army ROTC can help —two
First, you can apply for an Army U
ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, /u 
books, and supplies, and pays you Si** 
up to $ 1,000 each school year it’s
But even if you’re not a 
scholarship recipient,
ROTC can still help j
with financial assis- i
last two years
^ ARiSi ROTC06 f£» fl| 1 I I 7*BE ALLYOU CAN K.fW HLM S
/JÎ TH£_ ¿3
Believe H or M»t/
CHSSECNJ.SC
HERE’S WHAT YOU CAN DO:
Watch for those ,
Lre CL’ lriK£fg
Posters^ <Jin the (m™ i
details & entry J
blanks availiable soon.
Carnegie-Mellon University
university IflC dining iv^v service
Harriott corporation
c Ripley International Limited 1963 All Rights ReservedFOR INFORMATION CALL 578-2205 
Captain Michael Schulte 
or VISIT OUR OFFICE — B7, MMC
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
HOT FOOT
Our vrdfi**bd7ay *myyb*m* k7df muam md cu*md& cum ydur uabr mui fay ydu fa7m, muiy 
&u*m yb*mi7 md fuam ydu fa7m Suam'* fuy am Griam Exvicmambd7* ydu'yy yia\^ 
fbmu mui *myyi ydu uad b7 &b7d am a vrbci ydu ca7 afford 
tASItFAcSION GUARANSEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) ' $25.09
$13.0° gmM
(WASH-CUT-MXm-STTYLE)
brought to you by AB Coffeehouse

---------------------------------------------------

OE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
O j C AND O^EMACfcANO SCRIPS 
v—Investnisg acro, Oottcn A S
^ KJE<*uevrAccount ^ Til
T TH0Ü6HT I’D UAKN A LtTYu 
6lT AGOUT CoKfülfeRSTHIS 
--------^ÉMESTÊK... /
'îûi I Vi HAT ^RE you DOlNb AT A
t p endoofc?”issst
“4 "Tr_^i
^oTTiK-ro^
Repeat aftep- «e: P£N ano 
ll/K HELP GAR 
BUphot byh 
\ ftUD INK—
SONK & DANTSby Mark Levine
E\IEN TriOU&H VAODEUlH.i‘5 
DEAO, vi aw stau 
Do oad aintrod 
V______. k^HQVjÎ.1 I
R\6H'T/ AND WAV? tf 'THfdf, AMO WAIT fo^ SOMi 
UNSUSP56TIN6 PASS£ft'ßY 
10 FINO TT AMD 6Wi \X A OôoO HoMf, AWD--
ikopeu nMs* Pc.NRjc
i Can you picture yourself 
swinging down a cliff? Or 
shooting the rapids? Or 
crossing a river using only 
a rope and your own two 
hands?
You’ll have a chance 
to do all this and more in 
Army ROTC.
Adventure training like 
this helps you develop 
many or the qualities you’ll 
neea as an Army officer.
Qualities like self- 
confidence. Stamina. And 
the ability to perform 
under pressure.
If you ’d like to find out 
more, make a date to see 
your Army ROTC Professor 
of Military Science.ARMY ROTC.BE ALLYOU CAN B£
XlsD-D.tiiU'* 0i4)vL)_^UI
na> >r (WKam WAHt.Yr
üîi»4» ìbUI
FOR INFORMATION CALL 578-2205 
Captain Michael Schulte 
or VISIT OUR OFFICE — B7, MMC

---------------------------------------------------

ACTI VITI ES BO AR D EVE NTS
SPRING 1984
FILMS
Thursday Films
26 The Cabinet ofApr. 6 Romantic Comedy6,8,10,12Jan. 12 Nosferatu6,8,10Dr. Caligari6,8,1013 West Side Story6,8:30,11
19 The Third Man6,8,10May 3 Willy Wonka & the20 Educating Rita6,8,10,12
26 Seven Samurai6,10Chocolate Factory6,8,1027 Big Chill6,8,10,12Feb. 2 The General6,8,10May 2* TBA89 Weekend6,8,10Friday Films4 My Favorite Year6,8,10,1216 The Thin Man6,8,1011 Paper Chase6,8,10,1223 Hamlet6.8:30,11Jan. 13 Lords of Discipline6,8,10,12
Mar. 1 My Dinner with Andre6,8,1020 Yellow Submarine6,8,10,12Sunday Films
8 La Strada6,8,1027 Flashdance6,8,10,12
15 Lion in Winter6,8:30,11Feb. 3 Worlds Worst Films6Jan. 22 Deliverance6,8,10
29 Rebecca6,8,1010 First Blood6,8,10,12Feb. 5 Gator6,8,10
Apr. 5 Moscow Does Not17 Dark Crystal6,8,10,1219 Dirty Harry6,8,10
Believe in Tears6,8:30,1124 The Enforcer6,8,10,12Mar. 4 The Hustler6,8:30,11
12 Shall We Dance?6,8:30,11Mar. 2 Heavy Metal6,8,10,12Apr. 1 Paper Moon6,8,10
19 A Streetcar9 Casablance6,8,10,1215 Fastbreak6,8,10
Named Desire6,8:30,1130 Grey Fox' 6,8,10,1229 Fun with Dick
'and Jane6,8,10
•Wednesday—On the Cut
DANCE
February 4 Senior Banquet and Dance 
March 2 Sock-Hop
CHECK LOCAL 
PUBLIC A TIONS 
FOR ADDITIONAL 
PROGRAMS.
LECTURES
January 18 8:00 p.m. Ballroom 
Michael McKean and David Lander
"Lenny & Squiggy" Tickets $1
February 2 8:00 p.m. Ballroom 
Steve Landesberg 
(from Barney Miller) Tickets $3 
February 15 8:00 p.m. Ballroom 
Arkady Shevchenko
Highest ranking Soviet ever to defect to the 
United States. Former Soviet Ambassador 
to the United Nations.
COFFEEHOUSE
January 20 8:00 p.m. Wherrett Room 
Hot Foot Quintet 
February 17 9 a.m.—4 p.m. Grey Matter 
Victorian Photographies 
March 3 8:00 p.m. Wherrett Room 
Parker McDonald 
April 6 8:00 p.m. Wherrett Room 
Tish Hinojosa
April 27 8:00 p.m. Wherrett Room 
Hot Shandy
CONCERTS
February 9 7:30 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall
Pat Metheny 
Tickets on sale January 20 
April 14 
Trinidad Tripoli Steel Band
Spring Carnival Tent
ALL EVENTS FUNDED BY THE ACTIVITIES FEE.

---------------------------------------------------

Bents.
Ixhibits
trough Jan. 10 “Holiday Flower Show.”
Conservatory, Schenley Park, Oakland.
¦nPSat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 8c 7-9 p.m. 255-2376. 
ir0Ugh Jan. 22 “Pennsylvania Modem: Cha- 
s Demuth of Lancaster.” Gallery 1, Carnegie 
useum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
ie.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212. 
firough Jan. 29 “Great Drawings from the Col- 
tk>n of the Royal Institute of British Archi- Thf*ritpr
ts ” Gallery A, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 __________
rbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; 
n. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
irough Jan. 30 “Elliott Watercolors.” Chang- 
j Exhibits Gallery, Carnegie Museum of Natu- 
History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 
a m.-5 p m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4129.
Jan. 21 Senior Recital. Julie Harris, Bassoon. Films
Alumni Concert Hall. 3:00 p.m. __________
Jan. 22 Trio Concert. Werner Torkanowsky, vio­
lin; George Sopkin, cello; and Harry Franklin, 
piano. Alumni Concert Hall. 8:00 p.m.
Jan. 24 String Quartet Concert. Christopher Phil­
lips, violin; Michele LeFevre, violin; Walter Sin­
ger, viola; Sangwon Shinn, cello. Alumni 
Concert Hall. 8:00 p.m.
USIC
l. 17 Solo recital. Including works by Bach 8c 
-thoven sung by Andrew Schultze (baritone), 
liv. of Pittsburgh Dept, of Music, Frick Fine 
[ts Auditorium. 8:30 p.m. 624-4127.
18 “Music Here and Now: A Series of Gon- 
lporary Music.” The Pittsburgh Symphony, 
Jton Theatre, 101 Sixth St., Downtown. 392-
19 “Carmen” by Georges Bizet. Pittsburgh 
ra, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. 8
n. Box Office: 281-5000 or TICKET- 
IARGE: 392-4900.
Hi. 20, 22, 23 “Hits of the Roaring Twenties.” 
Htsburgh Symphony POP Series, Heinz Hall, 
I) Penn Ave., Downtown. Fri 8c Sun. 8 p.m.; 
Mm. 7:30 p.m. 392-4800.
I Hi. 22 Trio concert. Harry Franklin (piano),
H;mer Torkanowsky (violin) 8c George Sopkin 
Jllo). Including works by Beethoven 8c Schu-I
t. CMU Alumni Concert hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 
-2372. .. '
¦ n. 23 “Music from Marlboro.” Pittsburgh 
Hiamber Music Society, Carnegie Music Hall,
Through Jan. 21 “Princess Ida” by Gilbert 8c 
Sullivan. The Pittsburgh Savoyards, Stephen 
Foster Memorial Theatre, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Wed, Fri. 8c Sat. 8 p.m.; Sat. 2 p.m.; Sun. 3 p.m. 
361-0873.
Through Jan. 28 ‘ ‘The Basic Training of Pavlo 
Hummel” by David Rabe. The Famous Rider, 
3300 Fifth Ave., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 
7 p.m. 681-1476.
Through Feb. 4 “The Greeks” adapted from 
Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Homer. 
“Part 1: The Wars,” Wed. 8 p.m.; Sat. 1 p.m. 
“Part 2: The Murders,” Thu. 8 p.m.; Sat. 4 p.m. 
“Part 3: The Gods,” Fri. 8c Sat. 8 p.m. CMU 
Drama Dept., Kresge Theater, College of Fine 
Arts. 578-2407.
Through Feb. 5 “The Day of the Picnic.” City 
Theatre Company, South Bouquet 8c Sennott 
Sts., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. and 7 
p.m. 624-6781.
Through Feb. 12 “K2” by Patrick Meyers. Pitts­
burgh Public Theater, Allegheny Square, North 
Side. Tue.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m.; Thu., Sat. 8c 
Sun. 2 p.m. 321-9800.
Through Feb. 19 “Da” by Hugh Leonard. Pitts­
burgh Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oak­
land. Thu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 
621-2876.
Jan. 19-Feb.l2 “American Buffalo” by David 
Mamet. The Playhouse Theatre Company, Pitts­
burgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 
Thurs.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. matinee 2:30 p.m. 621 - 
4445.
Artificial
Intelliqence
Scientist
Here’s a position with extra appeal for some one who is specialized in 
Artificial Intelligence. It offers an opportunity to mature skills and build 
professional recognition by demonstrating ability over a wide spectrum 
of assignments.
Projects may be in manufacturing, design, science or other areas for 
Research Center programs for the many divisions of United Technologies 
Corporation or others. Thus, opportunities for wide exposure and early 
recognition of abilities are materially above average.
You will be expected to provide technical and program leadership in 
defining and implementing practical knowledge-based systems; research 
state-of-the-art in Al as applied to specific areas; determine appropriate 
software tools for Expert System implementation.
Education should include a MS or Ph D degree in Computer Science 
with significant course work in Artificial Intelligence, LISP programming 
and knowledge representation. An advantage would be research experi­
ence focussed primarily in one or more of the following areas: Expert 
Systems, natural language interfaces or knowledge-based systems.
The Research Center has gained wide recognition for significant accom­
plishments both in pure science and R&D. This has resulted from an envi- 
ronment tailored to the needs of scientific researchers, ample funding, 
outstanding back up services and a scientifically oriented management. 
Publication of papers is encouraged.
To creative individuals, we offer an ideal growth environment. So send 
your resume today to Mr. C.P. Marcin at the United Technologies Research 
Center, Silver Lane, East Hartford, CT. 06108.
U.S. Citizenship Required
UNITED
TECHNOLOGIES
RESEARCH
CENTER
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Through Jan. 22 “I Want to Live in the Coun­
try” by Joan Jonas (1977). Carnegie Museum of 
Art, Video Exhibition Room, 4400 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Continuous showing, Tue.-Sat. 10 
a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Through Feb. 2 “The Reflecting Pool,” collected 
work of Bill Viola (1977-80). Carnegie Museum 
of Art, Video Exhibition Room, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Continuous showing, Tue.-Sat. 
10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Jan. 17 “Stella Dallas” with Barbara Stanwyck 
(1937) and “Nine Months” (Hungary 1977). Pitts­
burgh Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 
1 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 17 “The Star Chamber” with Michael Dou­
glas (1983). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 8c 10 p.m. 621-4445.
Jan. 18 “Harlan County USA” (1976), “Women 
in Arms” (1980), 8c “St. Louis Blues” with Bessie 
Smith (1928). Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oak­
land Ave., Oakland. 1 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 18 ‘ ‘Sullivan’s Travels” with Joel McCrea 8c 
Veronica Lake (1941). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9 p.m. 621-4445. 
Jan. 19 “Not a Love Story” (Canada 1981), 
“Klute” with Jane Fonda (1971), and “Giving 
Way” (1980). Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oak­
land Ave., Oakland. 1 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 19‘ ‘In a Year of Thirteen Moons” (Germany 
1979). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak­
land. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m. 621-4445.
Jan. 19 “The Third Man.” CMU Activities 
Board, Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Jan. 20 “Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Com­
merce, 1080 Bruxelles” (1975). Pittsburgh Film- 
Makers, Multi-Purpose Room, Pitt Student 
Union, Fifth Ave. 8c Bigelow Blvd., Oakland. 8 
p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 20 “The Hunger” with Catherine Deneuve 
8c David Bowie (Britain 1983). Pittsburgh Play­
house, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30,9:30 8c 11:30 
p.m. 621-4445.
Jan. 20 “Orpheus” by Jean Cocteau (France
1949). Carnegie Museum of Art Theater, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Jan. 20 “Yellow Submarine.” CMU Activities 
Board, Doherty Hall 2210.. 6, 8, 10 p.m. 8c 
Midnight
Jan. 21 “Bom in Flames" by Lizzie Borden 
(1983). Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., Oakland. 8 8c 10 p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 21 “Fanny and Alexander” by Ingmar Berg­
man (Sweden 1983). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Jan. 21 “Los Olvidados” by Luis Brunei (Mexico
1950). Carnegie Museum of Art Theater, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Jan. 21 “Outlaw Josie Wales.” CMU Student 
Dormitory Council, Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8:30 8c 
11 p.m.
Jan. 22 “Autumn Leaves” with Joan Crawford 8c 
Cliff Robertson (1956). Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 
205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 2 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449. 
Jan. 22 “Cheaper by the Dozen” with Myma Loy 
(1950). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m. 621-4445.
Jan. 22 “Deliverance.” CMU Activities Board, 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Jan. 23 “Metropolis” by Fritz Lang (Germany 
1926). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Oaft Ave., Oak­
land. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m. 621-4445.
momentum
i IP—
from the academic world
rour career ;akes aquantum leap forward
systems programmers
Get in on the outstanding careers and generous 
rewards with the innovative leaders at Sperry. This 
position, an outstanding opportunity with our 
Computer System’s Roseville Facility, offers 
great challenges and growth potential for 
those individuals with demonstrated expertise 
in an academic environment.
Ideally, we’re seeking Systems Programmers with 
Compiler experience in optimization. Duties include 
the design, implementation and support of Sperry 
software for optimization of Compiler-generated code 
for both Sperry Scalar and Vector processors. An 
advanced degree is preferred.
Make the most of your background and skills...join the 
team at Sperry. For immediate consideration, call Char 
Nelson at (612) 635-5785 COLLECT, or send resume 
to: Professional Staffing, Sperry Corporation, P.O Box 
43942, MS4973, St. Paul, MN 55164. An Equal 
Opportunity Employer.
JLnrSPERRY
* Sperry Corporation 1964

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Housing
1 Bedroom with equipped kitchen, carpet, AC, 
cable TV available, some with addition den area. 
Next to bus, shopping universities, and hospi­
tals. From $269 + electric 361-5792.
Opening in Shadyside House. $134 + utilities. 
Must be 21 and mature. Feb. 1. Call Mr. Bohrer at 
421-2088 from Jan. 14 - Jan. 19.
Walk to CMU and Pitt Studio apartments in a 
high rise elevator building. Includes all utilities, 
equipped kitchen, huge walk-in closets, security, 
storage lockers, intercom, building maintenance, 
laundry facilities. On bus line. From $199 361 - 
5792.
ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT IN SHADY- 
SIDE now available, wall-to-wall carpeting, 
parking, optional lease, $275. 363-3560.
Sublet open immediately (nonsmoker) — 
$155/Month (negot.) + % utilities. Share Sq. Hill 
house with 3 professional/students. Own huge, 
bright bedroom, laundry. Many extras. Eva at 
681-9746 or leave name and no. at 881-7262.
Help me finish my dissertation! I need native 
English-speaking children between the ages of 
7-18 to listen to unusual sentences and tell me 
what they mean. It’s fun and only takes a half 
hour. Children receive a small reward. Please call 
Janet McDonald at x2812.
Roommate Wanted: Large Sq. Hill Apt. 61C 
close by. $190 + util, (negotiable). Quiet, clean 
roommate. Call before 10 am. 421-6790 — 
Richard
Wanted: A part-time secretary for handling mis­
cellaneous correspondance and office duues. 
Must be a CMU student. Start immediately. Call
x3535.
Services
Wanted
Childcare Is your toddler lost in large nursery 
school environment? Experienced woman pro­
vides quality care full and part-time in home in 
Squirrel Hill — CMU area. Pre-school instruc­
tion, activities and meals. Excellent references. 
683-2277.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca­
demic, papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Faculty family living near campus needs student 
for light housekeeping. Day, hours and salary 
negotiable. 622-6661, weekdays or 521-7515 even­
ings and weekends.
For sale
Mother John's Pizza
4523 Centre Ave.
621-6755
FREË DELIVERY 
1 FREE QUART
bottle of Laurel Springs Pop 
w/ all orders over $6 
1 coupon per order, white they last
Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid
Busch Gardens * The Old Country, America’s 
European theme park is conducting auditions 
for dancers, singers, musicians, variety artists, actors, 
technicians and supervisors. You could be part of the 
Busch Gardens magic. So get your act together and 
“Come to Life” at our 1984 Auditions.Audition Dates:
Pittsburgh, PA
Sunday, Jan. 29 
Duquesne University 
Music School Recital Hall 
Dancers Call: 12 noon 
All Others: 1:30—6 p.m.
nTgi-M
lUvt
y,
Cincinnati, OH
Tuesday, Jan. 31,12—6 p.m. 
Vernon Manor Hotel 
400 Oak Street
An Equal Enjoyment Opportunity /Affirmative Action Employer. M/F/H
CALL 578-2921
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786.
‘76 Ford Granada, 2 Dr., PB. PS. AC. Stereo, 
Good Condition, Call 682-1592.
General
LOST: White wool mittens/ Dec. 1 or 2/ in or 
around Skibo. I really love them and need them. 
Please call Kim if you know their whereabouts. 
578-3828 or 422-9760 — Kim.
OAKLAND REVIEW. Now accepting poetry, 
fiction, plays, b&w illustration, photography for 
1984 issue. Submit material to Skibo Info Desk by
Feb. 1.
The Academic Bag Ladies are meeting 0 
lunch 12-1 Thursdays - Lutheran Univer^ 
Center, 4515 Forbes, 682-6886.
GET FAMOUS. Submit poetry, fiction, piav 
b&w photos, illustrations to Oakland Review 
Skibo Info Desk. Deadline Feb. 1.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for student, between 3 and 5 p.m., in 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, January 24 
1984. Students who wish to meet with the presj. 
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200.
AMAZE YOUR FRIENDS. See your work m 
print. Submit writing and b&w art to Oakland 
Review, Skibo Info Desk. sVan Halen tries in "1984
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ­
ing ‘state of the art’ digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso­
continued from page 13
scrambling hands of Eddie Van Halen. 
“Jump” is most like the Van Halen of old. 
Then there is “Top Jimmy”, the story of a 
¦very David-Lee-Roth-like rock singer. This 
piece really features Eddie, from his har­
monic games at the beginning, all the way 
to his frantic solo at the end.
The favorite track from 1984, however, is 
“Hot For Teacher”. Beginning with 
double-tracked drums and often acting as a 
showcase for the “fastest guitar in the land”, 
the song features several “flashbacks” to a 
young David Lee Roth in high school, mak­
ing comments from the back of the room.
For the most part, however, 1984 makes 
very little of an impression. It lacks a great
deal of melody, imagination, and thap 
wonderful David Lee Roth sense of humor, 
Perhaps its greatest draw is simply die flying 
fingers of Eddie Van Halen. In whatisprob. 
ably the most anticipated year in the twen­
tieth century, Van Halen has released an 
album which wasn’t worth the wait.
atDa" succeeds
continued from page 14
Even with its problems, there is nodenv> 
ing that Da is a good play, and that the Lab’s 
production is well acted. It is very funnyai 
times, and provides a little more serious con­
tent a well. Da will be running though Feb-| 
ruary 19 at the Lab Theatre.
ATTENTION FOOD BINCERS- ' - J
A wonksk)p is bEiNq offEREd foR tMose women who are lockEd ¡into a cycle 
of qoRqiNq on food ANd t^en puRqiNq erMer by foRCEd voivmiNq, Iaxatwes, 
div'lETiCS, OR CONTiNUAl diETiNq ANd fASTINq.
eqn woRkshop is bEiNq hEld uy SATURdAy, -lymlvr 28,1984 fROM 9:00 l”bk” 
gu 1:50 p.M. lg gtn UNivERshy cyy .y OAklANd. PARTicipATioN is liiviiTEd. 
FoRWARd The REqisTRATioN fEE of $25.00 guO
RichARd L. Ilwmagl, Ph.D. x
Sure 506 
20 CEdAR BoulEVARd 
PrrrsbuRqh, PA 15228 
OR CAll 5614141 fOR MORE ¡NfORMATiON.
The Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra
MUSICHEF&gflcw
COMPOSERS 111 SEAKCH OF STK0MG& PERSONAL EXPRESSION
JOHN HARBISON
composer-in-residence
Wed., Jan. 18 • 8 p.m. • Fulton Theatre 
GUNTHER SCHULLER conductor
FRED LEROAHL: Chords (revised version)
DAVID STOCK: The Body Electric—
Miroslav Vitous, double bassist 
GUNTHER SCHULLER: Concerto for Saxophone 
and Orchestra (world premiere)—
Kenneth Radnofsky, saxophonist 
Free Composers Forum with the composers • 7 p.m.
Ttctots: $5; *3.50 atudanta a Moiof cttlzana. AvaMaMa at Hatou Ha* Bo* OIMea 
and al FuHon Thaetar avantng of partormanca o» caH TtchalCharBa: 392 4900
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
Skibo 40A
