^ C A R N EG 1 E
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54 — NUMBER 15 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1962
Reports From All Student 
Organizations Due February 28
In order to improve coordination between campus stu- 
dentdent organizations and student government, Student 
Congress has initiated a new organizational reporting sys­
tem. All organizations which are now recognized or who 
wish to be recognized by Student Congress are now required 
to file reports with the Congress activities committee and
finance committee. ?---------------------------------------------------------
These report forms
Detta Gamma’s entertain rushees as formal sorority rushing begins.
Photo by Jones
Spring Rush Moves Into Full Swing
if!
Skibo this week is active as 
sororities ho 1 d get-acquainted 
Theme Parties for freshmen and 
upper-class rushees.
Sorority rush officially began 
last Sunday with a Pan-Hellenic 
Open House in Skibo. Following 
this, the rushees toured the frater­
nities where the seven sororities 
hJd open house. The tours lasted 
rom 2 p.m. to 8 p.m., with a 
reak for supper. The rushees, in 
groups of fifteen, stayed about 
half an hour with each sorority.
On Monday^the Theme Parties 
began, and they will be held each 
night through this Friday. These 
parties, which last from 6 to 7:30 
p.m., are attended by invitations 
only, and the rushees received 
their invitations Monday morn­
ing. Although the girls may have 
received as many as seven sorority 
invitations, they were allowed to 
accept only five.
Final Parties
On February 19th, the rushees 
may pick up their final party in­
vitations from the Dean of Wom­
en’s office. A rushees may attend 
as many as three final parties. 
Final parties begin on February 
20th, and run through February 
25th; each party lasts for two and 
a half hours, and is usually held 
at a fraternity house.
The dates of each sororities final 
party is as follows: Chi Omega, 
February 20; Delta Delta Delta, 
February 21; Delta Gamma, Feb­
ruary 22; Kappa Alpha Theta,
February 23: Kappa Kappa Gam­
ma, February 24; Sigma Kappa, 
February 25; Alpha Epsilon Phi, 
February 25.
Rushees will file ballots stating 
their first three choices in the 
Dean of Women’s office on Feb­
ruary 26, and receive their bids 
that afternoon. Each new pledge 
will meet with her sorority that 
evening, and at that time the 
strict silence period, which began 
on February 11, will end.
Rush is open to any girl with 
a factor of 2.00 or higher, who 
has completed at least one semes­
ter at Tech. Tech’s Pan-Hellenic 
j Council governs rush, and the 
I preferential bidding is carried out 
by the Dean of Women’s office.
are now 
available in Dr. Strick’s Skibo 
office and they s'nould be obtain­
ed immediately by a representa­
tive from each organization. They 
must be returned by Wednesday 
February 28.
This procedure applies to all 
extra- curricular organizations. 
Any organization which fails to 
submit reports will cease to be re­
cognized by Student Congress and, 
consequently, will not be permit­
ted to meet, to collect dues, or 
to use any campus facilities what­
soever.
Through this procedure, Student 
Congress hopes — without requir­
ing hours of unnecessary paper­
work — to coordinate the ob­
jectives and review .he finances
Richard Cyert 
Appointed New 
Dean of GSIA
Richard M. Cyert has been ap­
pointed dean of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion and William R. Dill p~ asso­
ciate dean. The appointments be­
came effective February 1.
Professor Cyert has been at 
Carnegie Tech since 1948. He is 
currently professor of industrial 
administration and head of the 
department of industrial manage­
ment.of each campus activity. Addi 
tional information can be obtain- ! Commenting on his appoint­
ed from activities committee ment, Dr. Warner said, "It is for-
chairman. Jack Turk at MU 3- 
3474 or finance committee chair­
man Chip McKnight at MU 2- 
1829.
^ Corrigan Named 
Andrew Mellon 
Drama Professor
Dr. J. C, Warner, president, ' 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
announced the appointment of Ro- ; 
b e r t W. Corrigan, nationally 
known educator, lecturer, and ; 
writer, as Andrew Mellon Profes- ! 
%sor of Drama in the College of 
Fine Arts, at a meeting of the ex- i 
ecutive committee of the Board of I 
Trustees yesterday, Profesor Cor­
rigan has been at Carnegie Tech 
since September, 1961, as Visiting 
Mellon Professor in Drama.
The Andrew Mellon Professor­
ship in Drama was established, 
along with others in th_ depart­
ments of painting, design, sculp­
ture, music and architecture, as 
^Jpart of a $5.000,000 grant to Car­
negie Tech by the A. W. Mel­
lon Educational and Charitable 
Trust. The creation of these dis­
tinguished chairs was one part of 
a three-phase program supported 
by the grant “to strengthen the 
faculty of the College of Fine 
Arts for the achievement of crea­
tive leadership for liberal educa­
tion in the arts and to further its 
Icontiimed on page 5]
George L. Bacli Resigns From 
His Position of Dean of GSIA
George L. Bach has resigned 
from his administrative duties as 
dean of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration to ac­
cept an appointment as Maurice 
Falk Professor of Economics and 
Social Science.
Dean Bach’s resignation was ac­
cepted at a meeting of the board 
of trustees held on the Carnegie 
Tech campus recently. Early last 
fall, he requested that his admin­
istrative duties be lessened to per­
mit him more time for teaching, 
research, and other professional 
activities.
Dr. Warner, commenting on the 
resignation, said, “It is with great 
regret and reluctance that we acT 
cept Dean Bach’s resignation as 
dean of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration. His 
brilliant leadership has brought 
this young schol, founded in 1949, 
to a position of national distinc­
tion. Carnegie Tech owes much to ¦ pleased that he has consented to 
him and I wish to express appre- : remain on the faculty.” 
ciation for his many years of out- | Concerning his new appointment 
standing service. I arn very ICormtiued 0« page 17]
Spring Bookstore 
Honrs Announced
The Bookstore will continue to 
remain closed on Saturdays dur­
ing the 1962 spring semester. 
However, it will be open on Sat­
urday, February 10, and Satur­
day. February 17, as a service to 
students who are purchasing books 
and supplies for the spring sem­
ester. Saturday closing has been 
adopted this year because no reg­
ular classes are scheduled for that 
day. The Bookstore is open, Mon­
day through Friday, from 8:30 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. during the day and 
from 6:15 p.m. to 8:45 p.m. in the 
evening.
tunate for Carnegie Tech that a 
man such as Professor Cyert is 
available to continue the fine 
work done by Dean Bach. Pro­
fessor Cyert has been on the fac­
ulty of the Graduate School of
Parking Permits 
Still Available
A number of student parking 
permits for this semester are still 
available. Applications for these 
spaces may be obtained by day 
students in Room 103 Skibo. Even­
ing students apply in the Cashier’s 
Office, and all others apply in the 
Security Office, AH 243. Prefer­
ence will be given to car pools and 
to those students who live furthest 
from campus. Permits, which are 
available for both the Skibo and 
Edwards (behind Morewood) lots. 
Since all spring-semester permits 
have not yet been distributed, fall 
semester stickers will be legal 
until Monday, February 19. Per­
mits already allotted may be ob­
tained at the Cashier’s office.
Evening faculty, full and part- 
time, will continue to park as they 
did during the fall semester.
George L. Bach
There will be a Student Con­
gress meeting today in the Wher- 
rett Lounge of Skibo, at 4:30 p.m. 
It is the first meeting of the semes­
ter and all members should at­
tend.
Richard M. Cyert
Industrial Administration since its 
: founding and has contributed 
i much to its unique success. I feel 
\ certain that the school, under him,
‘ will continue the growth which 
has placed it among the finest 
; business schools in the country.” 
A native of Minneapolis. Minn- 
l esota. Professor Cyert received 
his B.S. degree from the Univer- 
1 sitv of Minnesota and his Ph.D. 
i from Columbia University.
Background 
S He has been director of a large 
i scale research project, “Behav­
ioral Theory of the Firm,” spon- 
: sored by the Ford Foundation 
which is considered to be the 
first of its kind employing an 
! electronic computer as » simula­
tion device in economics. As a re- 
! suit of his research, he expects to 
publish three books this year: A 
I Behavioral Theory of the Finn, 
I with J. G. March Market Struc- 
I tures and the Theory of the Firm, 
! with K. J. Cohen, and Quantita- 
j tive Techniques in Accounting, 
, with H. Justin Davidson. All of 
{the books will be published by 
Prentice-Hall.
j Professor Cyert was recently 
[Continued on page 17J

---------------------------------------------------

Girl Watchers Guide
Presented by Pall Mall Famous Cigarettes
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subtle Sounds tor 
Swinqin' People
JA 1-838-1
2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — WdKuh.», Februar; 14, 1««2
BULLETIN M BOARD
A Phi O Calls
Board To Use 
Seliool Text For 
New Study Film
A text book written by Erwin R. 
Steinberg, Dean, Margaret Morri­
son Carnegie College, and William 
Schutte, professor of English at 
Lawrence College, will be the 
basis for a home-study course in 
“Communications in Business and 
Industry” being offered by the 
new Britannica Schools Division 
of Encyclopaedia Britannica Finis, 
Inc.
The book, Effective Communi­
cation in Business and Industry,
was published in I960 by Henry 
Holt and Co.
Encyclopedia Britannica Films, 
Inc. is the nation's oldest and 
largest producer of educational 
films. The new division has just 
been organized to enter the cor­
respondence school field with a 
home-study curriculum of ‘‘pro­
grammed learning'’ as well as a 
series of new non-programmed 
courses.
Alpha Phi Omega invites inter­
ested students to an open meeting 
tomorrow evening, February 15, 
from 7:30 to 9:00 in Room 33 of 
Skibo. Those who come will meet 
present members and learn about 
the functions of membership in 
this national service fraternity. 
The aims of the fraternity are 
leadership, friendship and serv­
ice. Refreshments will be served.
Saturday Review
The Saturday Review is reprint­
ing “Through Many Doors,” a 
photographic essay of student life 
from the Carnegie Tech Quarterly, 
III, 1961, in its February 17 issue 
Copies of this Saturday Review 
will be sold in the campus Book­
store, beginning February 15.
Kiltie Band Openings
Any one interested in playing 
in the Kiltie Concert Band second 
semester should contact Mr. Rich­
ard Strange in the Music Depart­
ment. Openings are available in 
the clarinet and saxaphone sec­
tions.
Tarquans
Only two mere practice and try­
out sessions remain before the re­
hearsals for the Tarquan’s water 
show begins in earnest. These 
practice sessions will be held on 
Tuesday, February 13, and Mon­
day, February 19, at the Tech pool 
| from 7 to 9 p.m. Any interested 
; person is welcome to come and try 
' out. The theme of this year’s 
show is a “Treasure Chest.” Men 
as well as women are needed in 
the show.
Kiltie Band ConcertTech Essay Concert
The due date for preliminary 
entries in the Annual Carnegie 
Tech Essay Contest will be March 
1, 1962 instead of February 16, 
1962.
Dorm Party
The Men’s Dormitory Council 
is sponsoring a semi-formal cock­
tail party on Saturday, February
17, from 9 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. 
Dancing will be in both Donner 
and Hamerschlag Halls with mu­
sic provided by the Coachmen and 
the Twinklers. The theme will be 
the Peppermint Lounge, and con­
sistent with this, a Twist contest 
will be held.
Computing Lecture
The February meeting of the 
CIT Student Chapter of the Asso­
ciation for Computing Machinery 
will be held Monday, February 
19 at 7:30 in room 56, Skibo. Pro­
fessor Herbert Simon, Associate 
Dean of GSIA and Professor of 
Administration, will be the guest 
Speaker. His topic is “A Heuristic 
Compiler”. All students interested 
in computing are invited to attend.
The Annual Kiltie Band Winter 
Concert will be held Friday eve­
ning, February f6th and 8:15 p.m.
at Carnegie Music Hall in Oak­
land.
International Club
Womanhood will again be at the 
center of the International Club 
discussion this Sunday at 8:30 p.m. 
in the Skibo Party Room. 1
The topic will be “Woman: In­
spiring or Creative.” The aim of 
the discussion will be to re-exam­
ine woman’s role in the life: 
whether she is or can be an artist 
in her own right, whether she 
should have a will of her own, 
and how much of the tragedy in 
history is her fault.
Speakers for the evening are, 
on one side, Professor Gladys. 
Schmitt, noted author and teacher 
at Tech; and on the other side. 
Profesor Hans Vettor, Profesor of 
Architecture and a proponent of 
the traditional freedoms of man. 
Audience participation will be 
welcome.
Coffee and tea will be served 
after meeting.
Communications in Business 
and Industry is one of four new 
non-programmed courses in com­
munications. The others are Writ­
ing is for Readers, and an intro­
ductory and advanced course in 
technical writing.
Dean Steinberg has been at 
Carnegie Tech since 1946. He has 
been a communications consultant 
to many large corporations in the 
Pittsburgh area and with various 
community organizations. A pro­
lific writer, he has published arti­
cles in over fifteen professional 
publications and is co-author of 
Suggestions for Evaluating High 
School Writing, co-editor of Per­
sonal Integrity, and editor of The 
Rules of Force.
In 1960, he served on the ex­
ecutive committee of the National 
Council of Teachers and as chair­
man of the Conference on College 
Composition and Communication. 
Currently he is a member of the 
Board of Directors and of the Com­
mission on the English Curriculum 
of the National Council of Teach­
ers of English. In 1956, Dean 
Steinberg was the recipient of the 
Carnegie Teaching Award.
Professor Schutte was on the 
Carnegie Tech faculty from 1947 
until 1960 when he joined the fac­
ulty at Lawrence College. He has 
also ben active as a communica­
tion consultant to industry and 
while at Carnegie Tech served for 
a time as assistant to the presi­
dent.
Tech Receives 
Two NSF Grants
Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy has received two research 
grants totaling $88,700 from the 
National Science Foundation.
The grants are for new research 
projects in the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering and the 
Metals Research Laboratory of the 
College of Engineering and Sci­
ence.
Milton C. Shaw, Professor and 
Head of the Department of Me­
chanical Engineering, will direct a 
project on “Metal Removal Pro­
cesses.” Professor Shaw joined 
the Carnegie Tech faculty in Sep­
tember, 1961, after having been 
at Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology for fifteen years.
The Metals Research Laboratory 
project “Crystal Nucléation 
Studies by Field Emission Micro­
scopy” will be headed by Guy M. 
Pound, Alcoa Professor of Light 
Metals. Professor Pound has been 
at Carnegie Tech since 1949.
Bare-Backed Beachbomb
â ° What about standards?
Advanced students of girl watching never waste eyeball 
effort watching girls who are not beautiful. Standards 
must be kept high.
But how do we judge whether a girl is worth watch­
ing? Although many strict academicians will shudder at 
our aesthetics, we must insist that a girl is beautiful if 
she is beautiful to you. (That’s the beauty of girl watch­
ing. Every girl is beautiful to someone!) For example, 
many observers have pointed out that the Bare-Backed 
Beachbomb (see above) has a weak chin.
Yet none of these keen-eyed experts would deny that 
she is indeed an attractive specimen. And, speaking of 
standards, don’t forget to keep your smoking standards 
high. Smoke Pall Mall!
9 * 1 C» Prvévtl «/ tent — JvJazau- w ••• *>Mlh numt
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
FREE MEMBERSHIP CARO. Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the world's 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch­
ing. Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based on the book, “The Girl Watcher’s Guide.” Text. Copyright by Donald J. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon 
Dedini Reprinted by permission of Harper A Brothers.
Pall Malls 
natural mildness is so good 
to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeable!

---------------------------------------------------

IN THE NEW NON SLIP FLASK
Is this the only reason for 
using Mennen Skin Bracer?
Skin Bracer’s rugged, long-lasting aroma is an ob­
vious attribute. But is it everything?
After all, Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the after-shave 
lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heal 
shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. 
Conditions your skin.;
Aren't these sound, scientific virtues more important 
than the purely emo'ft'Cmal effect Sktn Bracer has on 
women? In that case, buy a bottle. And —haye fun.
skin bracer.
iïi
Wednesday, February 14, 1W2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page’ S
Positions with Potential
ENGINEERS • CHEMISTS • PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil 
Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical 
Metallurgical
National Carbon Company, America’s leading manufac­
turer of carbon and graphite products, offers positions to 
qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, 
motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special 
graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide vari­
ety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aircraft, aluminum, 
automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, nuclear, 
steel, transportation, and the electrical manufacturers.
Positions are available at 12 plants and laboratories 
located in Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Tennessee 
and also in our Marketing organization which covers the 
48 states from nine key cities.
Interesting, rewarding careers are offered in research, 
process and product development, production and meth­
ods engineering, product and process control, machine 
development, plant engineering, marketing, technical 
sales and technical service.
A National Carbon representative will be on campus:
February 16. 1962
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
Division of Union Carbide Corporation QQJjjP
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
!APO Initiates 
New System For 
Lost and Found
A new, centralized Lost and 
Found department has been es­
tablished at the Information desk 
<*in Skibo. Alpha Phi Omega, at 
the request of the administration, 
has inventoried and catalogued all 
of the 350 articles Which are pres­
ently on hand in the Lost and 
Found. About 150 of the lost arti­
cles have been identified, and their 
rightful owners notified. Various 
departments at Tech have turned 
their unclaimed articles over to 
iPthe Skibo center. It is the plan 
of A Phi O to continue to cata­
logue each lost article as it is 
turned in to the department, and 
to make every effort to locate the
Name
C-Booh Changes Requested
As a service to the student 
body and administration, Alpha 
Phi Omega will publish a “C”
Book Supplement this year. If 
you wish to make a change from 
the listing printed in the “C”
Book, please fill in the following 
coupon and mail to Alpha Phi 
Omega, Box 282, Campus Mail.
The deadline for change is Feb­
ruary 20.
Local Address
Phone
Misc.
owner.
From time to time, a list of un­
claimed articles in the Lost and 
Found will be published, with 
care given to withholding the data 
^pertinent to the identification of 
each article.
In order to claim an article from 
the Lost and Found, proper verbal 
identification must be given, and 
claimees are requested to sign a 
receipt, which is provided, for the 
department records, stating the 
nature and description of the 
claimed article. A list for articles 
Vlost but not found is now also kept 
at the information desk to facili­
tate locating the owner should the 
article be found.
Presently in the Lost and Found, 
A Phi O reports an overabund­
ance of scarves, gloves, hats, books 
and keys as well as several girl’s 
purses, umbrellas, a window drape 
(?) and sliderules. If a student 
has lost an article in the last two 
.^months, it might well be listed in 
the Lost and Found, and can be«
obtained by going to the informa­
tion desk.
INCO Gives «15,000
Carnegie Institute of Technology grants to “leadership universities, 
has received a $15,000 unrestricted 
gift to its development program 
from the International Nickel 
Company, Inc.
The gift, made by th Educa­
tion Program Committee of the 
International Nickel Company, is 
to be used for any purpose se­
lected by Carnegie Tech. it is part 
of the company's overall program 
which includes provisions for
——'-l.il —yOn Campos Mtt Shalman I
(Author of “Rally Round The Flag, Boy-s”, “The 
Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
I particularly those institutions com- 
; mited to exceptional accomplish- 
| ments.”
j According to company officials, 
; the grant was made “in the belief 
that Carnegie Tech, as one of the 
! nation’s foremost institutions, will 
; continue to give leadership in high 
j standards of education and re­
search.”
HOW TO BE A BWOC
l adies, let me be frank. The days of the college year dwindle 
down to a precious few. And some of you—let’s face it—have 
not yet become BWOC’s. Yes, I know, you’ve been,busy what 
with going to class and walking your cheetah, but really, ladies, 
becoming a BWOC is so easy if you’ll only follow a few simple 
rules.
The first and most basic step on the road to being a BWOC 
is to attract attention. Get yourself noticed. But be very, very 
careful not to do it the wrong way. I mean, any old girl is 
bound to be noticed if she goes around with a placard that says, 
“HEY! LOOKITME!” Don't you make such a horrid gaffe. 
On your placard put: “ZUT! REGARDEZ MOl!” This, as 
you can see, lends a whole new dimension of tone and dignity.
Once you have been noticed, it is no longer necessary to carry 
the placard. It will suffice if, from time to time, you make 
distinctive noises. If, for instance, every three or four minutes 
you cry, “Whippoorwill!” you cannot but stay fresh in the 
minds of onlookers.
We come now to clothes, a vital accessory to the BWOC— 
indeed, to any girl who wishes to remain out of jail. But to the 
BWOC clothes are more than just a decent cover; they are, 
it is not too much to say, a way of life.
This spring the “little boy look” is all the rage on campus. 
Every coed, in a mad effort to look like a little boy, is wearing 
short pants, knee sox, and boyshirts. But the BWOC* is doing 
more. She has gone the whole hog in achieving little boyhood. 
She has frogs in her pockets, scabs on her knees, down on her 
upper lip, and is followed everywhere by a dog named Spot.
All this, of course, is only by day. When evening falls and her 
date comes calling, the BWOC is the very picture of chic fem­
ininity. She dresses in severe, simple basic black, relieved only 
by a fourteen pound charm bracelet. Her hair is exquisitely 
coiffed, with a fresh rubber band around the pony tail. Her
daytime sneakers have been replaced by fashionable high 
heeled pumps, and she does not remove them until she get-" to 
the movies.
After the movies, at the campus cafe, the BWOC undergoes 
her severest test. The true BWOC will never, never, never, order 
the entire menu. This is gluttony and can only cause one’s date 
to blanch. The true BWOC will pick six or seven good entrees 
and then have nothing more till dessert. This is rfaz* and is 
the hallmark of the true BWOC*.
Finally, the BWOC, upon being asked by the cigarette vendor 
which is the brand of her choice, will always reply, “Marlboro, 
of course!” For any girl knows that a Marlboro in one’s hand 
stamps one instantly as a person of taste and discernment , as 
the possessor of an educated palate, as a connoisseur of the finer, 
loftier pleasures. This Marlboro, this badge of savoir-faire, 
comes to you in flip-top boxes that flip, or in soft packs that are 
soft, with a filter that filters and a flavor that is flavorful, in all 
fifty states of the Union and Duluth. • i*>2 m»» Shu.«.**
fiMOC: Bui/ Marlboro On Campii*. Buy them downtown« 
too. Either place, you gel a lot lo like.

---------------------------------------------------

4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, 1962
Editorial
Cheating Persists And Hurts System
The Undergraduate Advisory Commit­
tees’ report on cheating, prepared last Febru­
ary and printed in this week’s Tartan, rec­
ognizes the fact that cheating does exist on 
our campus and goes into detail about the 
nature of this academic cheating, and how 
it is possible. Two very interesting conclu­
sions are presented in this report. The com­
mittee found that cheating “injures the 
espirt de corps of the Carnegie educational 
system,” and persists because the faculty 
fails to act in such a manner that cheating is 
discouraged.
Cheating, however, seems to be only a 
small aspect of a larger problem afflicting 
the “espirt de corps” of Carnegie Tech. The 
fact that students will cheat illustrates that 
they lack certain basic moral and ethical 
values held to be valid by our society, at 
least in the “preaching” of our society if not 
always in its practices. This lack of values 
is also seen in other areas of student activity 
-—lack of consideration in the dormitories for
Readers Write
the studies as well as the property of other 
students, obnoxious or distracting noise and 
actions in Skibo .cafeteria or the library, and 
unwillingness to carry out responsibility in 
student organizations.
All of this would seem to indicate that 
a great problem, far greater than that of 
cheating is present on our campus. It is 
not enough to dismiss consideration of this 
problem by saying that is a problem of so­
ciety in general today. However, it is also 
not enough to say, as the committee has done 
cheating in the case of cheating, that it is the 
problem of the faculty, and administration 
alone. It is the problem of the entire univer­
sity and each individual, student, faculty, or 
administrator, should examine his responsi­
bility to fellow men in society as well as to 
himself, and consider the reasons that such 
a situation should exist in an educational in­
stitution like Carnegie Tech which is dedi­
cated to the high value of education not only 
for professional work but for citizenship and 
for life.
One Wants Figures; One Hits Paper
Wants Evidence Not Too ImpressedWith Features
On Skibo Printed
Editor, the Tartan:
The administration has com­
plained about the students not 
carrying trays back in Skibo 
cafeteria. Therefore, the time has 
come for the students to voice 
their complaints concerning these 
ideas.
Last week’s article on the pos­
sibility of rising food prices 
created quite a murmur among 
the students who saw it. I, for 
one, wish to express my indigna­
tion of rising prices. The whole 
idea of publishing this open 
threat to the student body indi­
cates to me that our administra­
tion (or the people responsible 
for the article) made no attempt 
to understand the student’s 
views. If they think we are sim­
ply too lazy to carry the trays, 
another survey is needed.
If it could be shown to me 
that our campus resturant op­
erates on a close price-balance- 
expenses system, as the article 
suggests, I would be most will­
ing to carry my tray. But, as of 
now, I think otherwise.
I call on those “in the know” 
to publish, if possible, evidence 
to convince us of this price-bal- 
ance-expenses claim and thus 
stop the talk against the exist­
ing prices which is a constant 
topic throughout the cafeteria.
George Haverstraw 
EE—’63
Editor, the Tartan:
Your little paper bothers me, 
your middle name bothers me, 
your “Editorial” and “Readers 
Write” nauseates me. However, 
for the first two I am willing to 
take ¿he great acquiescent road 
of apathy. (I might hesitate here 
to say that my use of the word 
apathy on this campus may bring 
another barrage of simpeltons 
[sic] to the Tartan scene). On 
the third count, I feel that I 
must bring my pen to paper to 
enlighten your little band of 
Teredos.
There appeared in your Jan­
uary 17 paper two articles con­
cerning Pipers and Economics, 
along with something about a 
monster who lurks in the bath­
room. As for the monster, the 
content of the article escapes me 
at this moment. For the other 
two, I felt impinged upon by 
their audacity and stupidity. 
Briefly then, the first article 
would have me believe [sic] that 
to be a creative person I must 
be able to communicate econo- 
micalily. That Kandinsky was of 
the “Economic School” of paint­
ing and in so much was a mem­
ber of “Our World”.! Secondly, 
your article on Pipers. Pipers? 
Surely this is exceeding the 
bouds [sic] of all that’s fit to 
print!? In your first article there 
was at least an idea, a credible 
one had it been presented pro­
perly, but to what idea can we 
attribute the Piper article? In­
tense campus concern perhaps?
A Fine Arts Student 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The writer’s name has been 
withheld to save him any pos­
sible embarrassment. The article 
about the “monster” came from 
a responsible student who too 
often found his study time taken 
up by inconsiderate classmates 
who wanted a bull session.
The writer’s comments about 
the editorial speculating on the 
need for economics as basic know­
ledge for Fine Arts graduates 
seem to show a lack of under­
standing of the article, and his 
letter indicates that at least one 
Fine Arts student needs not only 
a course in Economics, but also 
courses in reading comprehension 
common sense, and good taste!
Editor’s Note:
Sorry, George, the “big, bad” 
administration was not after us 
this time. The article you refer 
to was written fifteen years ago 
and was printed to show the 
continuity of student action. 
However, the point you make is 
a good one, and the TARTAN 
joins you in “calling on those in 
the know” to look into the price 
situation. The existing arrange­
ment does create a monopoly on 
campus with no competition and 
it would be interesting to see the 
financial statement of this “non­
profit” organization.
Editor's Note
The TARTAN can not print 
letters which are received un­
signed. Names may be with-held 
at the request of the writer, but 
the editor must know the author. 
Unsigned letters are held in the 
TARTAN office . and can be 
printed if the writer acknowl­
edges his letter.
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by Joey
Praise for This One
Go! By Streetcar, bus, automobile, train; Just go ... to the 
nearest theatre which features THE INNOCENTS. Here is one of the 
finest American films to come around in years, bound to bring its 
director adaptor and star academy award nominations.
Jack Clayton (ROOM AT THE TOP) has brilliantly taken Truman 
Capote’s (BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY’S) adaptation of Henry James’ ** 
THE TURN OF THE SCREW and turned it into a suspense-filled 
movie to make its original author proud as a peacock. Deborah Kerr 
gives what I feel is her finest performance in a long history of first- 
rate motion pictures including my previous favorite SEPARATE 
TABLES.
Whether or not you have read James’ novella for one literature 
class or another makes no difference. Clayton Capote and Kerr will 
keep you in a near state of shock from the passive beginning to the 
horrifying close.
A lovely young daughter of a minister, Miss Giddens is hired 
by a footloose uncle to tend his two wards: neice Flora and nephew 
Miles. She finds out from the housekeeper, Mrs. Grose that the chil­
dren were under the influence of the evil valet Quint and his lover 
Miss Jessel. When the previously charming children begin to “lose 
their charm” Giddens feels that the spirits of the dead Quint and 
Jessel are possessing their bodies. If she gets Flora and Miles to 
admit their ties, they and she will be free from further torture.
That is the basic story from which the masters begin to work, vj 
Kerr is cast as Giddens and, as I have mentioned, is sheer perfection. 
Flora and Miles are expertly handled by two youngsters, Pamela 
Franklin and Martin Spephens. In the minute role of the uncle, 
Michael Redgrave is cast bringing a superior touch on which the 
film begins.
An air of slowness is apparent throughout the movie. By slow­
ness I do not mean a dragging pace, but rather an acute awareness 
of the sense of time that is so important in the book. The slowness 
with which a spider devours a butterfly, or the hot slowness of a 
summer rain, or the sweet slowness of the growth of a muskrose. |
One major change which was executed by Capote in his script 
was the sexual drive of Giddens toward Miles but perhaps this is 
in James’ work also. In any case it is not a distortion and adds an 
even greater dramatic horror for the superb finish.
Benjamin Britten composed a chamber opera based on the same 
story; Ingred Bergman appeared as Miss Giddens on television a few 
seasons ago; William Archibald coined the title THE INNOCENTS 
for his stage version. But none have measured up to Henry James; 
none until Clayton, Capote, and Kerr!
it
Cheating - - Who, Why. and 
1961 VAC Report Outlined
Realizing that “cheating” does occur at Carnegie Tech, the 
Student’s Undergraduate Advisory Committee, composed of about 
ten students, investigated the situation and prepared a report, pub­
lished February 13, 1961.
This report was sent to all of the college deans but was not 
seen by most students. Therefore, the TARTAN, feeling the con­
clusions reached to be as valid in 1962 as in 1961, is presenting the 
entire report for consideration by the student body, faculty and 
administration.
Report of the Undergraduate Advisory Committee 
Recognizing that “cheating” does occur at Carnegie Tech, that 
it exists in virtually all departments, and that it is a serious prob­
lem, we of the Undergraduate Advisory Committee, after investiga­
tion, have reached the following conclusions:
(1) That the responsibility for stopping cheating rests on the 
shoulders of the faculty.
(A) That it is primarily up to those who teach and lead the 
class to discourage cheating.
(B) That this problem must be brought to the attention of 
the faculty as a problem.
(2) That the problem of cheating occurs mostly in three rather 
distinct areas — in homework, in laboratory reports, and in 
examinations.
(A) Homework:
It is all but impossible to prevent some copying of home­
work, and perhaps not altogether desirable to do so. When 
a student cannot solve a problem himself, it is better that 
he seek the aid of a fellow student than not turn the as­
signment in at all. Even if he copies verbatim, he may learn 
something from the process. If homework is an integral 
[Continued on page 5]
«^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub-|^> 
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief...............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ............................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ...............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager ................................................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager............................................Phil Chau
News Editor ..................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ...............................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor .........................................Steve Rothenberg
Copy Editor......................................................Carol Hosken
Layout Editor ..................................................Fritz Klinke
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor ...........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor.....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor.....................................Colin Jones
New* Staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein, Doris Bell, B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appel- 
baum, Mary Ferguson, Jay Ellen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan, Joyce Holy, Kris Kelman, 
Marty Moore, Margie Park, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky
Features Staff: Margie Park, Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary 
Dunning, Karen Smith. Irene Grandberg, Cathy O'Dea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Larry 
Gaflin, Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock, Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein, B. J. Zimmewicz, Miriam Gillespie, Pat Boggs
Copy Staff: Margie Park. Pat Michael, Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia 
White, Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Barry Shane.
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kail, Ginny Uliss
Layout Staff: Richard Straus, Dale Chcdorow, Allan Pollack
II

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
Cheating - UAC Report Outlined
[Continued from, page 4]
, part of a course, however, such collaboration should be 
acknowledged on the paper, e.g., by indicating the name of 
the student from whom help was received. Unacknowledged 
copying by the student on important homework must be con­
sidered serious if widespread copying is to be discouraged.
(B) Laboratory Reports:
There should be more stimulation in laboratory courses so 
that students are inspired to do their own work, and are 
more reluctant to let others copy their work.. More advanced 
laboratory courses must be made literally more advanced 
so that the good student does not feel he is wasting his time 
writing an original report on trivial material.
The grading of a laboratory course should include more than 
just the laboratory reports, unless the experiments themselves 
are changed *from year to year or the laboratory assignments 
are made on individual specific aspects of a general problem. 
It is extremely difficult to detect unoriginal work in “stand­
ard” laboratory reports, because a wealth of old reports is 
generally available to be assimilated into new ones. Instruc­
tors should also mark on procedure during the laboratory pe­
riod where what they observe is original with the student. 
Questions during the laboratory period and personal discus­
sions of the work afterward would be valuable in determining 
just what the student does or does not know. Both student 
and instructor would benefit from such individual and per­
sonal questioning.
Graduate students should not be used as the sole instructors 
in the more advanced laboratory courses. In many cases, they 
neither command the respect of the advanced student, inspire 
the student in what he is doing, nor discourage the student 
from copying his reports.
(C) Examinations:
If cheating is not sincerely and effectively discouraged dur­
ing an examination, there is really no need for the test. 
Examination cheating has at times become alarmingly wide­
spread; the results of these tests succeeded only in determin­
ing who could cheat most skillfully. Such occurrences are 
disheartening to conscientious students, and we find such 
occurrences are not rare.
Often an instructor makes little or no effort to discourage 
cheating in his examinations. More conscientious proctoring 
is needed during tests. Especially in tests administered to 
large classes, instructors should move around the class and 
make the students aware that they are looking to stop cheat­
ing by actually looking — not by gazing out the windows or 
by catching up on their work, etc. When examination cheat­
ing is discovered, it must be strictly punished if it is to be 
cured. Unless cheating is officially punished in some way, 
the honest student is not being given an honest chance.
(D) That many otherwise honest students have resorted to cheat­
ing as a form of self-defense to fare well in courses they 
feel are “full of cheaters.” Such feelings occassionally have 
snowballed to include entire classes. Cheating is sometimes 
even considered resourceful; we know of students who spend 
more time trying to figure how to “beat’" a course than 
learning how to pass it.
(E) That the major steps to solve the problem can be taken 
only by the faculty. Only they can remove the temptations 
which lead to cheating, and only they can effectively punish 
cheating offenders.
(F) That cheating in all its forms is injurious to the morale of 
the honest students who are forced to compete with cheat­
ers, and to the morale of the faculty who do make con­
scientious efforts to stop cheating. Over-all, we find cheat­
ing injures the espirit de corps of the Carnegie educational 
system.
~ By and large, then, we feel that cheating depriciates the Insti­
tute's esprit de corps, but perisist on this campus because faculty fail 
to act positively against it.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Or HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
Its Bouqect St. (Near Corner Torbei »nd Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
SCOTCH ’N SODA 
AUDITIONS
ALL-PURPOSE ROOM, SKIBO 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17 1Po 24 — 1 5 P.M.
Robert Corrigan
[Continued from page I] 
influence in the cultural affairs 
of the community and the na­
tion.”
Intellectual Stimulation
Professor Corrigan visualizes 
the professorship as a means "to 
provide a kind of intellectual sti­
mulation exclusive from but as an 
integral part of the professional 
training offered in the classroom. 
An artist, regardless of his field,” 
he said, “must be aware of the 
society in which he lives. In fact, 
he must constantly be relating 
the world in which he lives to 
his art. One of my major aims is 
to increase this awareness.” 
Norman L. Rice, dean of the 
College of Fine Arts, comment­
ing on the appointment, said, 
“Professor Corrigan is not only a 
person of unusual talent and ex- 
celent reputation, but he also 
seems to be inexhaustible. His ac­
tivities in the past and his sched­
uled activities for the future as­
sure me that the purpose of the 
Mellon grant will be fulfilled 
with great distinction in the de­
partment of drama.”
Professor Corrigan received his
Robert Corrigan
A.B. degree from Cornell Univer­
sity where his major study was in 
the classics. His main areas of 
study while working for his 
masters at John Hopkins were 
writing, speech, and drama, and 
his doctoral work at Minnesota 
was in the fields of comparative 
literature and drama.
Professional Activities 
Professor Corrigan has directed
over 35 plays in university and 
summer theatres. In the spring of 
1953, he wrote a series of sixteen 
articles on the theatre in Ivory 
Tower, and many other of his 
articles have been published in 
leading education and theatre 
journals throughout the country. 
In addition, he has edited or 
translated many volumes on the 
theatre, including, Chekhov: Six 
Plays, with a preface by Harold 
Clurman, to be published later 
this year by Holt, Rinehart, and 
Winston; The Delta “New Theatre 
of Europe Series,” Delta Books 
(Dell Books), with the first vol­
ume to be published this fall and 
the second in the spring of 1963; 
and “New Playwrights” series, 
Hill and Wang, Drama Books, a 
two-volume work scheduled for 
publication in 1963.
Professor Corrigan holds mem­
berships in thr American So­
ciety for Theatre Reserach, the 
American Educational Theatre As­
sociation, the Speech Association 
of America, the Modern Language 
; Association, the International Fed­
eration for Theatre Research, the 
Shaw Society, and Sigma Delta 
Chi (journalistic honorary).
New low-cost luxury in two 
just-out Chevy II Nova sedans
• Luxury and low cost have never been more 
beautifully blended than in these two newest 
additions to the Chevy II line! Like their running 
mates-the Nova 400 Sport Coupe, Convertible 
and Station Wagon—they have the same more-for- 
your-money features that have made Chevy II 
the winner of Car Life magazine’s Engineering 
Excellence Award for 1962. Soft-riding new Mono- 
Plate rear springs, proved in the equivalent of 
2,000,000-plus test miles.Thrifty 6-cylinder engine
that gets more “git” out of a gallon of regular. 
Body by Fisher roominess that fits big families 
and small parking places. An easy loading vaca­
tion-sized trunk. New ideas that save on upkeep. 
Plus trim, tasteful styling, inside and out. See 
the smart, sassy, saving Chevy n Novas— 
and the other sensibly sized, sensibly priced 
Chevy II models—at your Chevrolet dealer’s.
Ehevu II Nova
New Chevy II Nova 2- and 4-Doors-plus a wonderful choice of other Chevy II model*
Nova 400 Sport Coup«Nova 400 ConvertibleNova 400 2-Seat Station Wagon
300 4-Door Sedan300 2-Door Sedan300 3-Seat Station Wagon
100 4-Door Sedan100 2-Door Sedan100 2-Seat Station Wagon
See the new Chevy U at your local authorized Chevrolet dealer’

---------------------------------------------------

5518 WALNUT ST. 
Mu. 2-1901
Page 6 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, 1962
First of a SeriesStudents See Time To Halt Tests
CARNECGNI SAIRSTI
frit*« M Outete« by Input tap»««
Total Disarmament?
By ALAN TOPOL
When a recent series of disarmament talks at Geneva 
was broken up in disgusting failure, much of the American 
press and public expressed disappointment that neither a 
nuclear test ban nor a disarmament agreement had been
reached. Many blamed the ;*oviets^
for wrecking this conference as us at the conference table is the
they had wrecked others.
While I am certian that the 
American representatives were 
negotiating in sincerity at Geneva, 
I question whether oui govern-
strain placed upon out economy 
by the armaments which no soon­
er produced become antiquated. 
Even ignoring the strain, who 
can deny that this forced alloca-
A committee of students in the nation’s capital has 
been trying to dispell the belief that President Kennedy has 
already decided to resume atmospheric testing of nuclear 
weapons. Calling themselves Student Ad Hoc Committee on 
Letters to Kennedy, they are urging that the American col­
lege community increase its voice of opposition to the re­
sumption of atmospheric testing.?---------------------------------------------------------
The group originally formed 
because of a notable slump in 
mail reaching the White House
after the Bermuda conference be- | at a moment when general dis- 
tween the President and th'* Brit-
centive to undertake other tests 
to “catch up.”
2. Add to international tension
ment would have ever accepted a tion of resources neglects the 
reduction in arms even under the needs of other areas such as edu- 
inspection terms we initially pro- cation or adequate medical care 
posed. First, our negotiations with for Americans.
It seems inevitable that our 
armaments will continue to grow. 
It also seems inevitable that these 
fruitless negotiations will continue 
upon their path of failure, a 
course which we dare not alter.
Editor’s Note: This is the first 
in a series of informative articles 
by Allan Topol on national and 
international affairs. The articles 
are to be of a nonpartisan nature 
with an emphasis on politics. The 
views represented are those of the 
author.
Russia are characterized by an 
atmosphere of mutual suspicion 
with the result that Soviet agree­
ment on any issue leads the 
United States to believe that Mos­
cow has an ulterior motive. Sec- j 
ond, the technical details of 
an international inspection svs- j 
tern are so complex that I 
question whether these details 
could ever be perfected to the 
point that either nation would be 
assured of knowing the other’s 
military strength. Finally, a bilat­
eral disarmament would be un­
realistic in a world of many pow­
ers. Could the U.S. safely dis­
arm with Russia while China’s : 
military strength was growing? I 
These are only some of the issues 
that lead me to believe that dis­
armament with Russia would not 
be in our own national interest. ;
Yet in spite of this conclusion 
the talks must drag on. We may 
not under any conditions be pre­
pared to accept a sizable reduc­
tion in arms; yet we must com­
municate an image to the rest of 
the world, particularly the small­
er nations.
Still more frustrating than the 
continued stalemate which faces
ish Prime Minister. They believe 
that most people have since as­
sumed that the decision to resume 
testing has already been made, 
but students believe that there is 
s '1 definitely time in which to 
influence any such decision.
The Student Ad Hoc Commit­
tee which is working with Turn 
Toward Peace, a major national 
campaign to build support for al­
ternatives to the threat of war,
armament negotiations are about 
to resume thus raising the ques­
tion of U.S. sincerity.
3. Spread a feeling of despair 
to people at home and abroad be­
cause of our seeming inability to 
bring a halt to the arms race.
4. Damage the image of the U.S. 
around the world especially in 
J^pan, India, and Africa. In these 
areas there was a significant 
though tardy reaction to Soviet 
testing. In these countries the U.S.
exact amount of damage, it is 
particularly unfair to the unborn 
and uncommitted to subject them 
to the danger through a decision 
: which they have no choice.
This group of students is urging 
their fellow students to support 
President Kennedy in his desire 
to prevent resumption of tests and^[ 
are asking every concerned per­
son to write to the President in 
care of McGeorge Bundy, Special 
Assistant to the President, White 
House, Washington 25, D.C. They 
are also asking students to con­
duct local demonstrations, contact 
local officials, and urge their pro­
fessors to speak out against re­
sumed testing, as many professors 
did recently with regard to civil 
defense via advertisements in^ 
newspapers across the country.
The committee feels this is the 
j time for all Americans to speak 
out. Failure of the academic com­
munity to rally to this cause 
could, they feel, prove disastrous 
for the future health of the 
i world’s peoples.
opposes the resumption of U.S. j is looked upon as a nation with
testing on moral, political, and !a hi^her standard of internation- , , . , , , ,, j al conduct than the Soviet Union,psychological grounds, feeling thatit would- e existmg level of, ^ , . radioactive fallout consequently1. Create another spiral m the endangering the health of present
arms race and provide the USSR ; an(j future generations. Although 
and other nations with the in- 1 there is no way to measure the
FOR QUICK. 
PERSONAL SERVICE
Schenley Hand Laundry
4618 Forbes Ave.
1Pos Pios1tn
The ¡ove affairs 
of three women— 
maritol.. premariiol... 
ond one marvelous surprise! 
Three wonderful stories by
INGMAR BERGMAN
Junior Year 
in
New York
An unusual one-year 
college program.
Wrife for 
fcrocht/re *o;
y
N*W Y ori UfMV*r*ity
Hew Ye»k 3, N. Y.
of' Mark the date on your calendar pad right now—if you’re
** *¦ looking for a career in engineering and notjust another job!
¦ Ml ¦¦¦ That’s the day a West Penn Power representative will
llif Le I be on campus to fill you in on the details — so
Ji I / you can learn how an engineer can and
does surge ahead in this company.
A 8 AI Sign up for an interview—and see for
¦" 111 Ml yourself that West Penn Power
* ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ jg an engineering.minded
company that knows and 
talks your language. 
At West Penn 
an engineer is 
more than 
just a 
slide rule 
jockey. He is 
given a chance to 
advance when posi-
Lirin filli fill tions ahead open up.1 Hill UUI Mil That’s why engineers fill
many executive* type positions atFebruary 23 You owe it to yourself to look into this
challenging opportunity with a company in 
a challenging industry. ;
If you’re looking for a career and not just another 
job—you’ll sign up with your placement officer TODAY 
- for an interview with West Penn.
POWER
YOU CAN SURGE AHEAD
WEST PENN POWER COMPANY
Cabin Hill, Greensburg, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pagre T
Discussion of 
Latin Affairs In 
Weekend Conclave
Latiii American Affairs will be 
given intensive study by students 
and faculty from the tri-state and 
other Eastern colleges, at a week­
end conference in Pittsburgh, 
February 16-18. The National 
Student Christian Federation is 
sponsoring the event. The semi­
nar will be held at the University 
of Pittsburgh. All interested Tech 
students are invited to attend.
The conference opens with a 
dinner in the Schenley Union 
Supper Room, Friday evening, 
February 16, (6:30), when Dr.
Wendell Schaeffer, Assistant Dean 
of- the University’s Graduate 
School of Public and Internation­
al Affairs, will give a briefiing 
on Latin America. Dr. Schaef­
fer’s research has included Mex­
ican administrative history and 
institutions, Caribbean and Cen­
tral American history, compara­
tive local government, economic 
development in low-income coun­
tries, and other problems.
Dr. Richard Shaull, Vice Presi­
dent of Mackenzie Institute in 
Sao Paulo, Brazil will then de­
scribe the current situation in 
Latin America. The Friday pro­
gram will conclude with worship 
in Heinz Chapel.
Saturday’s program includes a 
panel of the* conference faculty on 
political, economic, and social 
problems in Latin America; small 
study and discussion groups; a 
second presentation by Dr. Shaull; 
and a panel of Latin American 
students. A gala Fiesta will con­
clude ¡Saturday’s activities.
The conference closes with sem­
inars Sunday afternoon February 
18, following an 11:00 a.m. serv­
ice in Heinz Chapel, celebrating 
The World Students’ Day of 
Prayer. The Rev. Paul Schrading 
is Coordinator for the worship 
services.
Tech students interested in par­
ticipating in all or part of the 
seminar should contact Dr. J. 
Stanley Barlow, Bellefield Pres­
byterian Church, Fifth and Belle­
field Avenues, Pittsburgh 13, or 
call MU. 2-1730 immediately.
Ford Foundation
Grants $100,000
The Ford Foundation has 
granted Carnegie Institute of 
Technology $100,000 to continue a 
program, started in 1959, aimed at 
alleviating the critical shorage of 
engineering teachers in the United 
States and Canada.
The program provides forgiv­
able loans to doctoral students in j 
engineering who are interested in 
a teaching career and cannot af­
ford to enter.or complete doctoral 
study.
In 1959, the Foundation made a 
grant of $200,000 to Carnegie 
Tech for the same purpose. Since 
that time thirty-seven students 
have received partial support for 
doctoral training. Eleven of these 
students have completed their 
studies and seven are presently 
on +he faculties of engineering 
schols throughout the country.
The program calls for loans to 
be granted for a period of up to 
three years to any one applicant. 
The maximum amount an appli­
cant may receive in that time is 
$10,000. Each loan is to be given 
on the basis of need and as a sup­
plement to other sources of in­
come.
If, upon completion of doctoral 
study, the person is employed as 
a full-time faculty member in the
United States or Canada, the debt 
is cancelled at the rate of $1,000 
or 20% per year, whichever is 
greater. Therefore, the entire loan 
can be forgiven for five years 
service on an engineering faculty.
In order to qualify for the loan 
program, the student must have a 
masters degree or its equivalent 
in engineering, the related sci­
ences, or mathematics; have the 
avowed purpose of earning a doc­
torate in engineering; be seriously 
interested in an academic career 
in engineering in the United States 
or Canada; devote at least three- 
quarters time to doctoral pursuits 
on a full calendar basis; need the 
loan for pursuit of the doctorate 
at an educationally efficient pace; 
be forty years of age or less at 
the time of the first loan.
The program is one of many es­
tablished by the Ford Foundation 
for the advancement of engineer­
ing education.
WRITE
FOR
TARTAN
What Is Your Taste In Musk!
UROOF SHGCSF NRLYIF URL CICCGML
A Band For All Occasions
eiLL SPRAGUE 
COMBO
KVDD FO. 4-5044 *» «M/ —wosmt
Staff Introduces Thistle
As an introduction to the 1962 Thistle, a photographic display 
has been placed in the Skibo Snack Bar. This exhibit emphasizes the 
importance the Thistle Staff has placed on a pictorial portrayal of 
campus life. The photographs used are samples of those to appear 
in an entirely new yearbook section which has been added to the 
annual to chronologically record interesting occurrences on campus 
and all major events. The Staff has hinted that this is only one of 
many innovations to appear in the entirely different 1962 Thistle. 
You are invited to preview some of the changes in the Thistle by 
visiting the photo display near the entrance of the Snack Bar. You 
are also urged to reserve your copy of the yearbook by using one of 
tne huoscnption envelopes available at the exhibit.
COLLEGE CONCERTTHE KINGSTON TRIO
RECORDED IN LIVE PERFORMANCE
VOL U
ChRYIF ,GCCGaI i UIS hTMUIYSC 
RS NMfyaRC
have created outstanding 
career opportunities for
CYGILSGCSC Vng ILyGLIITC
B.S. degrees or better
Assignments include the following areas:
Servo-Mechanisms—relating to 
all types of control problems 
Electronic Systems—relating to 
all types of guidance, detection, 
control and communications 
Propulsion —relating to fluid- 
mechanics, thermodynamics, 
dynamics, internal aerodynamics 
Environmental —relating to air 
conditioning, pressurization and 
ojygen systems
Human Factors — analysis of 
environment affecting pilot and 
space crews, design of cockpit con­
soles, instrument panels and pilot
Heat Transfer-relating to mis­
sile and space vehicle structures
Structures —relating to cyclic 
loads, temperature effects, and the 
investigation of new materials, 
methods, products, etc.
Aerodynamics—relating to wind 
tunnel, research, stability and 
control
Solid State Physics—relating to 
metal surfaces and fatigue
Space vehicle and weapon 
system studies-of all types, 
involving a vast range of scientific 
and engineering skillsequipment
Get full information at
GLNGdGNfRa ML YR,hfC GLSITdGIHC
with a Douglas representative
MARCH 1. 2
We urge you to make an appointment thrsvffh the Carnegie Tech Placement 
Office. If you cannot, please write to
NMfyaRC RGTYTR«S YM,hRLEF GLY/
3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
An equal opportunity employer
MU
they’ve got another live one
Three thousand UCLA students cheered, stomped, 
whistled and yelled in delight at one of the Kingston 
Trio’s greatest live concerts. Here are the reasons 
why: “Little Light... CojgtfflpMted... Chilly 
Winds ... Oh, Miss Mary .^^Htredo.». O Ken Kar* 
anga... Roddy McCorley... M.T. A.... 500 Miles.. J 
The Shape of Things.. .Where Have All The Flowers 
Gone?... Coin’ Away For To Leave You” Some are 
the Kingston’s tremendous hits. Some are great new 
numbers, never before recorded. All are the songs 
that made a concert you’d want to attend. You can. 
Capitol recorded it.
FREE BOOK COVERS ... featuring full-color photos of th« 
Kingston Trio and other great Capitol stars. Look for them 
at your favorite record store. You’ll have the best-dressed 
books in school... and for free.

---------------------------------------------------

T*et g — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, Id€*
At Western Electric we play a vital role in 
helping meet the complex needs of America’s 
vast communications networks. And a career 
at Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of 
the nation-wide Bell Telephone System, offers 
young men the exciting opportunity to help us 
meet these important needs.
Today, Western Electric equipment reduces 
thousands of miles to fractions of seconds. Even 
so, we know that our present communications 
systems will be inadequate tomorrow; and we 
are seeking ways to keep up with—and antici­
pate — the future. For instance, right now 
Western Electric engineers are working on 
various phases of solar cell manufacture, 
miniaturization, data transmission, futuristic 
telephones, electronic central offices, and 
computer-controlled production lines—to name 
just a few.
To perfect the work now in progress and 
launch many new communications products, 
projects, procedures, and processes not yet in 
the mind of man — we need quality-minded
engineers. If you feel that you can meet our 
standards, consider the opportunities offered 
by working with our company. In a few short 
years, you will be Western Electric.
Challenging opportunities exist new at Western 
Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemi­
cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, 
and business majors. AH qualified applicants will re­
ceive careful consideration for employment without 
regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For mort 
information about Western Electric, write College Rela­
tions, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 
Broadway, New York 36, New York. And be sure to 
arrange for a Western Electric interview when our 
college representatives visit your campus.
[W^errtElecfr'^-l
«*ANUF*CT0ft«N6 ANC SUPF4V UNtf OÍ VHft *111 SVfffftl
Artists' Ceramic Hoffman Asked To Seminar
Show Opens With 
Works In Textiles
An exhibition of ceramics and 
textiles by American artists is the 
current show at the Hewlett Gal­
lery- The show will continue until 
February 16.
Artists represented in the show 
include Marie Tuiecillo Kelly, 
Franz Wildenhain, Karl Mratz, 
and Daniel Rhodes.
Marie Tuiccillo Kelly is a well- 
known Pittsburgh artist, who has 
exhibited in the International and 
has many times been a prize-win- 
ner in the Associated Artsists of 
Pittsburgh. She was the “Artist 
of the Year” for 1961 at the Pitts­
burgh Arts and Crafts Center.
Educated at the Bauhaus, Ger­
many and internationally known 
for his work in ceramics, sculpture 
and painting, Franz Wildenhain 
has exhibited in over 100 shows 
since coming to the United States 
in 1947. These include the Brus- 
sell’s World’s Fair, Ceramic In­
ternational exhibition at Cannes 
and Ostand, and Masters of Con­
temporary American Craft at the 
Brooklyn Museum. Among his im­
portant works is a 200 foot ceramic 
wall commissioned by the govern­
ment for the new National Library 
of Medicine in Washington, D.C. 
He is now professor of ceramics 
at the School of American Crafts­
men of Rochester nstitute of Tech­
nology, Rochester, New York.
Karl Martz, who is associate 
professor of ceramics at the Uni­
versity of Indiana, is an advisor 
and special contributor of Cer­
amics Monthly. He has been an 
extensive exhibitor and prize win­
ner, both nationally and locally.
Daniel Rhodes has studied at 
the University of Chicago, Art 
Students League, Colorado Springs 
Fine Arts Center, and Alfred Uni­
versity. He received his M.F.A. 
degree from Alfred and is now a 
professor there.
The Hewlett Gallery is open 
weekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m., and on Saturday from 9:00 
a.m. to 12:00 noon.
Theodore Hoffman, Professor 
and Head of the Department of 
Drama, College of Fine Arts, Car­
negie Institute of Technology, has 
been invited to serve on the fac­
ulty at the Salzburg Seminar in 
American Studies.
Professor Hoffman is now in 
Austria where he will remain 
until March 9, lecturing on Amer­
ican drama since World War II, 
and conducting seminars on “The 
American Theatre as a Cultural 
Institution.”
The Salzburg Seminar in Amer­
ican Studies is a privately spon­
sored institution which brings to 
leading European scholars and 
professionals one month sessions 
in various fields of American cul­
ture and academic achievment. 
The month Mr. Hoffman will 
spend at the seminar is devoted 
to “Mass Media in America.” 
Other faculty members for the 
seminar include Howard Nemerov, 
leading American poet and nov­
elist and Donald H. McGannon,, 
president of the Westinghouse 
Broadcasting Company.
Professor Hoffman is a former 
European Director of the Salzburg 
Seminar and in this position in­
augurated and administered the 
full-year program. He previously
Annual Day of 
Prayer Planned
The annual Universal Day of 
Prayer for students sponsored by 
the World Student Christian Fed­
eration will be held year on Sun­
day, February 18 at 11:00 a.m. in 
Heinz Chapel. Rev. Armando Div- 
; as of Guatemala, the Director of 
1 the Moises Saenz Student Center 
in Mexico City, will preach. Stu­
dents from colleges in Pittsburgh 
are invited to participate. This 
service will be the closing service 
for the Latin American Seminar 
which is being held all weekend 
sponsored by the National Stu­
dent Christian Federation.
Theodore Hoffman
served on the faculty for an 
American literature session. He 
has also taught in the University 
of Maryland program of the 
United States Armed Forces Ed­
ucational Program and at Bard 
College.
He has written in many publi­
cations including The New Re­
public, Theater Arts, Kenyon Re­
view and Partisan Review.
Chamber Music By 
Cameron Quartet 
To Be Held Sun.'
The Cameron String Quartet, 
composed of students in Tech’s 
department of music, will make 
its debut in a program of cham­
ber music Sunday, February 18, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo.
The quartet, organized in Octo­
ber of 1961, is composed of Paul 
violin; Laraine Shapiro, 
second violin; James. Diehl, viola; 
and Robert Silverman, cello. The 
group was formed in honor of 
Professor Groesta Andreasson of 
the music faculty at Tech. Pro­
fessor Andreasson played with the 
Busch Quartet as a second violin­
ist. This quartet was among the 
most cherished and highly esteem­
ed string quartets in the 20th 
century. Professor Eugene Eich­
er, cellist and also a faculty mem­
ber at Tech, serves as consultant.
Compositions to be played in­
clude: Haydn Quartet No. 13 in 
G Major, op. 77; Mozart Flute 
Quartet with Miss Judy Williams, 
flute, No. 25 in D Major, K. 285; 
and Beethoven Quartet No. 7, op. 
59 No. 1 in F Major.
Other concerts by the group are 
scheduled for March and April. 
Admission is free and the student 
if«
All W elcome T o 
4Y’ Coffee Hour
Students or faculty interested 
in Peace Corps, in other kinds of 
projects involving Americans 
abroad, and in talking about the 
role of Americans Abroad are in­
vited to come to a coffee hour in 
| the Y Lounge, 57 Skibo, between 
4:00 and 5:30 Wednesday, Febru­
ary 14 to meet Miss Jimmie 
Woodward, who is on the staff of 
the International Division of the 
_Y.W.C.A. Miss Woodward has re­
cently returned from two years 
in Malaya with the YWCA, and is 
now specialist for Leadership De­
velopment, working with leaders 
of Y’s in other countries who 
come to America for study visits, 
and helping with training of 
American staff for overseas as­
signments including those assign­
ed to the YWCA’s Peace Corps 
project in Chile.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
?EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS
i «m untrenNUREMBER6I
wheh JNk Eft AlC D336 Ave>< poWIIIII1KII EXprest 1-3447
Datly & Sunday 2—5:15—8:30 P.M. Seats Not Reserved 
Adults to 5 P.M. $1.50—After 5 P.M. $2.00 
Sunday $2.00 AM Day— Children Always 75*
WILL NOT BE SHOWN IN ANY OTHER THEATRE 
IN THIS AREA DURING THIS EXCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT!
Our future is in the hands of men not yet hired
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.t 
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distri­
bution centers In 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
Exclusive Tri-State Çforf C T ft fl H\/ I doors open 
Engagement Oidi lUllMjf ¦ 1:15P.M.
STANLEY KRAMER pea*SPENCER TRACY/BURT LANCASTER] RICHARD WIDMARN MARLENE DIETRICH/JUDY (ARLAND
AS IRENE HOFFMANMAXIMILIAN SCHELL 
CLIFT
neiotf*
**B«st atreettpUy!”
“One of lite year’s 1« best!”New York film Critic*

---------------------------------------------------

come
{{ {lue fo fta ßornb teshfW $or(ac4 of +he eartVi lecfcei (ilCe flus
aW+ evenj 
cootkcu hai
.4"/' . ‘ n I
Ci ñcM\huov re $op(k 
\ fest it.
£ìfe fo 
if if ROrfó
^fterfaci* ¿Kpfosw -fke \e$t<\Yeó& were pitie ¿ í>^ ^overnvhewt” scievitïvH io!r\o r^¿i
flìftt'-l^strU^evi^, äv\<J tssoei ¿*- A®furutw® ^Ut^vvuîvxt'; 
CARN Tesr EGGIS t^>
tfpzec\\bi0 woütíT of >'¿
*CTÏ^ FAU^ur ro i:- \ • ‘ :f 4
ATHoípneee. bM---'-&
K)afiA0a((i/ ftig !.. • -¿^V • v j "V"f
Wts
V\Ort testi '^»e'ng. \ '^y ^"’twtxt, tUe tetter pK vu / ¿zyfgfcP
tins ^ov»b5» <jot fo te. i \|/ W V* 1
¿xv\d pes|?(e hofíce4 (t a.hd scud ;
I
sfcrícerßüt. fW 5be^ b&fx* jh? ¿¡ r^u;
«d^nt a.bout i-Uevr b^s(vn#*f
¦Kvxvi íosf Bowit "t^sfs£f coone fkere a)as
a difovvYvav*ewÍ co+^t'rev'ceibi firs'f if JiJ cuas cali
_________________________________ Wettoesdar, FobrtMrr li 1M2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN - Pase »

---------------------------------------------------

lets all swp towtee 
we k?& eiSttTtfxo x au 7me /u
si 1Pos tn 
petce <,&{
w hneal6h
all Hi4 ofacir ¿aQhfintt rpi
IaJ& $£>£.€&. JUST fr% took) 
m CfrtcH 0p %
¿*.w3 uj£vit about ¦ tWir ¿>osmes$
CoO'r&k'ih9 <7WV-v Bo», t
U hca.r-A +kc voecUS S<=U<&fcT heM ***** W**
^eojolc »t av%4
oi 2ttJN J i*K 2tkEfAJt JCD 
al692J CAO NwkE P^esowl PO f
y.j’;, ...‘J'f'v ^ .'¦¿’i. »A. • yl‘>*^Bfi na
*.wj <oev*f- -Hicim boimm.
*|%t 3JJjtm -fe <je1” (oorn^i
p€opte rif ter
thmjic alonp tfMtiL WfflmF* *ihCSC FUXVTIKJ6
I^SPKW^A^ g ifPp^
reU.ftc*M«)£ Huir 
Refines 
^ “IWH.$6*V fiahVi<,KO&> s& •B& &IACK ?LOKT[^& SP60iC<> Afce
v£R4 UMME 5
Fage li THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, 1962

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Februar4M 14, 1M2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa*e 11
fyor fht gef pA(^h ha<j r\<?
<pt- yr>or>i av\4 Vr»or« Gcv>c«rv\e<i 
Aw- r oee*M , i«<wr is Bió V. • *
• • %£Cké fu*T' ¦-' • <PY¦ . w6 SfÇCIcj. ... • il p
T>wn -fW ne taflet outfif <ts tactics
Awvsr
/ 78 . it' WHAT 5
<W ffrrrrE> coMiuè!
_ WH6W ftJTiig
—NEBE6 r
yv
SfiTCK fWfFlirter ' é
6 et (Jours Tad AY :(x
Tbi ffbi'c ri ipogei i^fxxHieficcid^. ;''itígeí R5*J Trte e^HT TeftcK' ftT lisr" 5a^ H«: pob/ic reWions outfit.
. _____________ j _ V •_________
BUCK füX(f] Slé BLfiCk FtOiTI® . F¿drtT/\ÍÍ
IKtô SPecK fllT^S .-. . èPFck' PR3ÖF .:. * • .••••• •' - •¦- ‘SPÔCIC PßOÖF
1111111PoPsit /j-gff<^ssgs_[--v, ^ ^L^^oiuzees
PlìPp]'
(*MU 4ta of fU £pecb/ *éu) husi^^s
wetv bona. The aiorU ricU. prosp^eJ.
prt flounsbe<è. .*.•*» ? : •  [ '
ÊZ? '
(dorld b^o^<
TVi^ pfeilte cf 
popjaUov\ seemed 
t>omeheu) to ¿(nnvu$Vi
But $oor\ ¿jr€u> fa.f *v\<i £<?v^W
pr^tfciuw eff. A^4
fta biarlC 5pfc<5 b^cja^» +0 disappai".
‘ri^U \ÔT^T^Ô1 ÿ f-ft r,M ui?
Gmw-a GGeor *rs* Hrtc- uw TKrs/
fñua/r ro Ttte 
ÇTMOS- n flfimjLihAP ^ h />AOOtO (jUj fìWOtJT n
é- /T^\ tm> fi—
ft»c o'ftat' talP tier fai 
on saittes/ me^icants^ 
ceo $fòrm u)iv\iou)S.
$0 tonile V\aJP Hv£ p*opfe 
Ih H\e i0orl4 iOörkreA or\ 
heu), n^prr>/e^ f?tfvr>b$ —
(< sau) line Situatavi «vii $cu|
IW5, Tffe UlfìH TH? $P&lftMlt)X ctléM
^wém • ¦ ^í^íéM % ñ

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 1? — TSE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Weánesdar, February 14. 1962
Bôt afa* covrfo\*%
p(ftw1*£^ ‘>geà$ cÇ ¿oüb't’-
éeùTueum, i m/h< & rfitkrtfe off Tkf.
.Tôp OF HH HtfíO-BOT % TWlWk tMŒ D&cFïWtt> 
/ v> nl 8oMà THftT (Oltt <ltlt UP Dpr kt3E^ uJôzks /. .mr ft
Deretttevr
pece*
TUOFRUH
Vn€n evi
flriL
IViSMe.
5¿> ff dertd«ç<J. fi ne Pereti 
uJAÇ ¿tv>hoonce^. ___ •
freit) ovv VA& iviSidg
7"Ris verezeFüT com umt e? eFïïcnve 
UMTti aie Tesi itiSTfttíO mW H0(JRi 
gL.Ba G.Gcl
IT worn Mats ßesrl
But vioööQt| u)aw.£<) 
to. fate. fta, blavvie. 
f% T^Y !*&ld $OVr)<?~
/- bo¿ci. "a)HM pourTAK^ THe 
^oesrioM Td tH6 ^ Ÿçoçuer
ôVér
Trtis TfSr û/itc ftt>& 
Mo AP^erci^ecr 
AM^fJT • OF 
tzftpio fierce 
Fñitoor Tú tl+£ 
/vrnospae(te *
ttjou) LfictraF o\Aa B
<Xv4 »t tAior

---------------------------------------------------

,
Wednesday, February 14, 1Ô6Ê — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Face 1*
Y’s Announce New So-EdProgram 
And Review Activities Of Fall
Love, Courtship & Marriage; 
The Psychology of' Leadership; 
World Religions; Speed Reading; 
Scuba; Skeptic’s Corner; Hash & 
Rehash; and International Con­
versations will highlight the 
Spring SO-ED Program offered 
by the Campus Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. These are all open to 
any member of the Carnegie Tech 
community, whether or not they 
are members of the Y, although
Y members participate at reduced 
fees. Registrations are now being
P taken at the Y Office, 57 Skibo. 
Monday, February 19, is the regis­
tration deadline for some of the 
classes. All of the classes are lim­
ited in size and will be filled on 
a first-come first-served basis. The 
classes will begin within the next 
two weeks, and all will end by 
Easter Recess.
LOVE, COURTSHIP & MAR­
RIAGE will be taught by Dr. 
Phyllis Martin, one of Pittsburgh’s 
jP most competent specialists in the 
field. Dr. Martin is Professor of 
Biology and Chairman of the De­
partment of Human Development 
and Behavior at Chatham College, 
and is a meftiber of the National 
Council on Family Relations and 
the American Assoication for The 
Advancement of Science. The 
class will focus upon the physical 
and psychological makeup of men 
and women; the creative use of 
ft dating, courtship, and engage­
ment; and the emotional, sexual, 
legal and financial aspects of mar­
riage and the family. In addition, 
members of the class will have an 
opportunity to suggest topics for 
consideration. Questions and dis­
cussion will be encouraged. The 
class will meet for 6 sessions on 
Monday afternoons from 4:30 to 
5:45 in 56 Skibo, from Feb. 26- 
April 16 (except March 12 and 
0 26). Registration fees will be $6.50 
for one or $12.00 per couple for
Y members; $8.00 for one or 
$15.00 per couple for non-mem­
bers. Limit: 30. Registration Dead­
line: Feb. S2.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF LEAD­
ERSHIP is a workshop designed 
to give practical training for lead­
ers of campus organizations, al­
though 'it is open to anyone in­
terested in strengthening their 
9 capacity to lead groups. Using 
materials and insights developed 
by the National Training Labor­
atories, the workshop will focus 
on the hidden forces working 
within groups, the strengths and 
weaknesses of democratic and au­
tocratic leadership, a functional 
approach to leadership tasks, and 
the development of increased 
sensitivity to the inter-personal 
relationships which operate with- 
£ in groups. In addition, members 
of the workshop will have a 
chance to suggest specific topics 
and problems of group leadership 
they would like to have covered. 
This will not be a series of lec­
tures! Instead, the workshop 
members will participate in role 
playing, demonstration situations, 
and other devices designed to il­
lustrate the concepts being con­
sidered. Richard Batchelder and 
$ Verna Volz, the Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. Campus Secretaries, will 
, act as coordinators, although other 
faculty and resources will be 
brought in as needed. The work­
shop will meet for six ressions on 
Thursday evenings from 6:30 to 
8:15 in 40 Skibo, from March 1- 
April 12 (except mid-term exam 
week). Registration is $3.00 for 
either Y Members or non-Mem- 
bers. Limit: 24. Registration dead- 
|| line is Feb 26.
WORLD RELIGIONS will take 
up Hinduism, Buddhism, and Con­
fucianism — Taoism on four suc­
cessive Wednesday afternoons 
from 4:30 to 5:40 in 45 Skibo be­
ginning Feb. 28. Each religion will 
be introduced by the Life Mag­
azine film strip and text, follow­
ed by comments from an over­
seas student who is a member of 
that faith. Questions and discus­
sion will CAtttfou« on through a
tray dinner at 5:45 in Dining 
Room 107 Skibo. Limit: 35. No 
fee, but preference will be given 
to those who will register for all 
four sessions.
SPEED READING is a fine op­
portunity for those who are really 
serious about wanting to increase 
their reading skills. It is the 
equivalent of speed reading 
courses taught at other universi­
ties, but for less than half the 
cost! Last semester, most of the 
students in this class at least 
doubled their reading rate and 
at the same time increased the de­
gree of comprehension of what 
they had read. The instructor will 
be Mr. Regis B. Wiegand, Head 
of the English Department at All- 
derdice High School and a mem­
ber of Tech’s Night Faculty. He 
is one of the most experienced 
and successful speed reading 
teachers in Pittsburgh. Classroom 
work will include the use of a 
tachistoscope, reading machines, 
reading movies, and standardized 
tests. Do not register for speed 
reading unless you are prepared 
to devote an hour a day to the
assignments. Come prepared 
work, and to get real results! The 
class will meet for 14 sessions, 
from 6:15 to 8:15 Monday and 
Thursday evenings from Feb. 22- 
April 16 (except mid-term exam 
week). Limit: 20. Y Members
$20.00, Non-Members $25.00, plus 
a $3.95 required textbook. Regis­
tration deadline: Feb. 19.
SCUBA means Self Contained 
Underwater Breathing Apparatus.
SKEPTIC’S CORNER will be
an opportunity for open, frank 
| and honest exploration of the 
areas in the Bible and religious 
| faith that are most often doubted. 
Members of the group will help to 
determine the specific problems to 
, be explored. Richard Batchelder 
! and Verna Volz, the Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. Campus Secretaries, will 
act as coordinators although out­
side resource people will be 
brought in to deal with specific
parts of the world. Guest For An
Afternoon will present a visiting 
faculty guest recently returned 
from overseas. International Fire­
sides will consist of six American 
and four overseas students meet-’ 
ing for conversation in a faculty 
member’s home for two hours on 
arranged evenings. Two American 
and five overseas students will 
have an opportunity for a per-
problems. The group will meet I sonally guided Tour of the Gettys- 
on Tuesdays, 4:30-5:30 p.m. in the burg Battlefield on March 31- 
Y Lounge, 57 Skibo, for seven April 1. International Suppers will
sessions beginning on Feb. 27. 
Limit: 15. No fee, but advanced 
registration is required.
In addition to these classes, the
This class provides an opportu- y’s will also offer programs dur-
nity for Tech students to learn 
the exciting sport of underwater 
Scuba diving. Competent instruc­
tion will be provided by experi­
enced Scuba divers, supervised 
by a Certified Scuba Instructor. 
Students provide their mask and 
snorkel (about $6.50). Flippers 
are desirable but not required. 
The Aqua Lungs are provided 
free. The class will meet for sev­
en sessions from 7:30-10:00 p.m. 
on Thursday evenings at the Tech 
pool, from Feb. 22-April 12 (ex­
cept for mid-term exam week). 
Y Members $12.00, non-Members 
$15.00. Limit: 18. Registration
deadline: Feb. 19.
ing the semester. HASH AND
feature students from abroad, 
who will prepare national dishes 
and present a brief program on 
their country.
Registration blanks and full in­
formation about these and all
REHASH meets Tuesdays from i other Y Programs may be obtain- 
12:30-1:20 in Skibo Dining Room j ed at the Y Office, 37 Skibo.
105, with participants bringing a 
sack or tray lunch. A
guest opens a topic for about 15 
minutes, followed by discussion, 
questions and conversation. Pro­
fessors Meehan (History), Dawes 
(History), and Sochatoff (Eng­
lish) will be the guests for the 
opening sessions on Feb. 27, 
March 6, and March 13. After 
that, faculty guests to be invited 
will be chosen by members of the 
group.
INTERNATIONAL CONVER­
SATIONS will provide a series of
For Quality 
and Selection
See Our Display of 
Domestic and Imported 
Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland Pgh., Pa.
informal events focusing on other V .S
Sign up for 
Advanced 
Army ROTC...
And right away, 
you’ll feel better about 
your military Obligation...
Because you know, as an officer,
your military service will be a stimulating and rewarding experience. You 
will enjoy the pay, the prestige, the traditional privileges of an officer...
your military service can pay off handsomely in later life. For example,
ROTC can be tremendously helpful when a man starts his climb up the 
civilian ladder. Success in the executive areas of business and industry 
comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few 
are born leaders; but leadership can be learned. And Advanced ROTC 
is a great place to learn it...
you will be contributing to the limit of your potentialities in one of the 
biggest jobs we face today . . . you can help keep America so strong 
the war the whole world dreads need never happen.
During your 2-year Advanced Army ROTC course,
there will be a subsistence allowance of $535. Uniforms and military 
textbooks are paid for. There is a $117 allowance for your six-week 
summer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you're 
commissioned, a $300 uniform allowance.
And then, of course, there is the warm sense of accomplishment you 
will feel in June 1963 when the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are 
pinned on your Army uniform.
¦

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 14 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, 1962
Robert Schmarts Talks To 
CLIO On the Church and Nazis
“The Catholic Church and Nazis 
in Central Europe” will be the 
theme of a discsssion by Dr. Rob­
ert Swartz, Associate Professor of 
History, at a meeting of Clio next 
Tuesday, at 7:30 p.m. in the Ski­
bo Party Room.
Dr. Swartz spent last semester 
on a leave of absence in Austria 
conducting studies on the resist­
ance of the Catholic Church to 
Hitler and the Austrian Socialist 
Party during the period from 
1938 to 1945. Dr. Swartz believes 
that although the church was 
never officially identified with 
the resistance efforts and even at­
tempted to compromise and co­
exist in 1938 with the Socialists, 
contributions were made by it to 
the underground organizations.
All students interested in hear­
ing the results of Dr. Swartz’s 
research in Austria are welcome 
to attend.
ROBERT SCHWARZ
$150 Essay 
Contest Opens
Carnegie Tech is again sponsor­
ing an essay contest on current 
problems of a community govern­
ment. Entries are open to all Tech 
undergraduates acting as individ­
uals or as teams of two or three 
as joint investigators and authors. 
$150 will be awarded as first prize, 
$100 as second, and $50 as third. 
Other finalists will each receive 
$10.
Preliminary entries should be 
delivered to the office of Dean 
Strick by February 16, 1962. Each 
entry is to consist merely of a 
statement of not over 600 words 
presenting the chosen problem, 
suggested lines of analysis and so­
lution, any any available evidence 
substantiating these, such as clip­
pings, notes, biographies or draw­
ings.
Each preliminary entry will be 
judged for the promise each of­
fers of leading to a successful es­
say. Finalists will be named by 
February 28.
The completed essays of the se­
lected finalists w'ill be due in Dean 
Strick’s office by April 27, 1962. 
These will be judged primarily on 
the clarity and soundness of the 
analysis, and a realtistic under­
standing of the practical situation.
Social Relations instructors will 
be glad to confer with and advise 
contestants on both preliminary 
entries and final essays. On ap­
plication these essays may be used 
for course credit.
IBM Display 
Open Feb. 12
“Chronology of Calculators,” 
featuring a group of historical cal­
culating devices ranging from an­
cient, nonmechanical instruments 
to machines that were produced 
and marketed, will go on display 
in Skibo Gallery, Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology on Monday, 
February 12. The show will con­
tinue until March 12.
The exhiibit was assembled by 
the arts and sciences department 
of the International Business Ma­
chines Corporation. The machines 
are arranged in five groups to 
show highlights In the develop­
ment of calculators. Each group 
is backed up with pictorial panels 
which place the developments in 
their historical perspective.
Included in the show are the 
abacus, which although thousands 
of years old, is still usel as the 
principle figuring device by maiiy 
peoples of the world; Napier’s 
Bones, a series of rods which can 
be arranged to solve multiplication 
problems; the Arithmetic Machine, 
th* first real calculating machine 
which paved the way for all sub­
sequent developments in this field; 
and the experimental model of the 
first successful multiple-order, 
key-driven caluclator made with 
meat skewers, staples, and elestic 
bands, and mounted in a macaroni 
box.
The Skibo Gallery is open every 
day, from 7:30 a.m., Monday thru 
Saturday, and from 10:00 a.m. on 
Sunday.
Marriage or What? 
Is Program Topic
“Marriage or What?” Emerson 
Club asks this question of them­
selves as well as of some African 
and Asian students on February
18. Why might such an institu­
tion arise? Should it continue? 
What alternatives exist?
Dinner ($0.75) starts at 5:30 p.m. 
The free program neglns about 
6:45 in the Albert Schweitzer room 
of the First Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
Mardi Gras. 
Is Party Theme„ /
Capodistvia—the fair Ophelia— 
Orpheus.
Let them stay hidden, behind 
their masks—Until fnidnight, when 
the masks are removed—the play­
ers revealed.
The romance of assuming an 
ulterior personality is offered to 
everyone—by attending the Inter­
national Club’s “Masked Ball.” a 
Mardi Gras costume party. En­
tertainment, dancing, prizes for 
outstanding costumes, the intro­
duction of the Mardi Gras Queen 
—all these promise to make this a 
memorable evening. Friday, 
March 2, 1962, Skibo Ballroom. 
Admission: $.75 per person.
We all make mistakes ...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied 
behind your back—it’s easy to turn out pevfect papers 
on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. 
Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of 
an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure 
mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, 
medium, heavy weights and Onion 
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet 
packets and 500-sheet ream 
boxes. Only Eaton makea 
Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper 
Presn trtdb ysbtsbreasn l Pl taeeMFadmou CrMMi
HARRIS-INTERTYPE
CORPORATION
Leaders /7> PRINTING, PUBLISHING, 
BROADCASTING & MICROWAVE EQUIPMENT
OFFERS OUTSTANDING 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES FOR
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
ACD 3J9v>P 1t
DESIGN 
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 
MANUFACTURING 
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE TRAINING
HARRIS-INTERTYPE CORPORATION offers a variety of chal­
lenging engineering positions in all divisions of a rapidly expanding 
and diversifying corporation.
One of the world’s largest manufacturers of fine precision 
printing and publishing equipment with a growing activity in 
broadcasting and microwave systems and instruments, Harris - 
Intertype has unusual opportunities for advancement in all divi­
sions and in centralized activities of the corporation.
Interviewing — On February 21
OPERATING DIVISIONS 
OF HARRIS-INTERTYPE
HARRIS-SEYBOLD COMPANY
Offset printing presses 
& power paper cutters
INTERTYPE COMPANY
Typesetting machines 
& type matrices
THE COTTRELL COMPANY
Magazine & other 
rotary printing presses
LITHOPLATE, INC.
Presensitized plates 
& lithographic chemicals
INTERTYPE LIMITED
Typesetting machines & 
matrices; offset presses
GATES RADIO COMPANY
Broadcasting & other 
electronic equipment
PRD ELECTRONICS. INC.
Microwave & other 
electronic instruments

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN -r- Page 15
‘Oh hurry, Harvey. They’ve 
started twisting already
“There goes Ethel— 
carried away again!
f "Here comes 
Miss Eyebrow Pencil 
of 7962." I
44Stretch pants 
don’t seem to do 
a thing for me/'
COEDS AND SUPERCOEDS. Coeds accept a Friday-night date on Friday after­
noon. Supercoeds have to keep date books. Coeds wear black and gray. Super- 
coeds wear green and red and yellow. Coeds talk about “The College.M 
Supercoeds discuss the world. Coeds smoke dainty, tasteless cigarettes that 
they think proper. Supercoeds smoke Luckies because Luckies taste better. 
There are many supercoeds, because college students smoke more Luckies than 
any other regular. Are you a supercoed?
YARLyI TO LUCKIES and CAR NEGA fasfe for a ISTUCAO
64. r. «* Produd of dnwu&tm JUwuoc is eur middle m/m
To do their part for National 
Brotherhood Week, C.F.P. is spon­
soring a blood drive on Carnegie 
Tech’s campus. The drive is in 
behalf of the Pittsburgh Chapter 
of the National Hemophilia As­
sociation.
Hemophilia, as you know, is a 
heredity condition in which the 
blood fails to clot quickly enough, 
causing prolonged, uncontrolable 
bleeding from even the smallest 
cut. Present reserves of blood are 
precariously low thus endangering 
the lives of hemophiliacs in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Trained nurses from the Hemo­
philia Association will be in Room 
46 in Skibo from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m., Saturday, February 17, to 
accept donations.
Students under the age of 21 are 
required to have their parents 
permission to give blood. Permis­
sion forms may be picked up at 
the information desk in Skibo any 
time this week.
Students and faculty both are 
urged to participate in this hu­
mane endeavor. Giving blood 
takes so little time (only ten min­
utes) but the great good you do 
will never be forgotten.
FTHLY MHTN
By Larry Kashar
At the “Masked Ball,” the 
Queen Of the Mardi Gras will 
be revealed. Who will she be? 
We can only say that she will 
be chosen by a panel of judges 
experienced in appraising the 
feminine gender. If you know 
of someone whom you believe 
has the requisites for Mardi 
Gras Queen, send her name 
(and photo if possible) to the 
International Club, Campus 
Mail.
BUY
YOUR
’62
THISTLE
NOW
7.
e i ci-s ^ ;
Panel of Chemical Engineers 
Discusses Career Possibilities
A panel discussion on the topic 
“Careers in Engineering” is being 
sponsored by the American Insti­
tute of Chemical Engineers. The 
meeting, which will be held Wed­
nesday, February 14, in the 
Wherrett Room, will feature four 
practicing engineers from the 
Pittsburgh area. Each will repre­
sent a different career possibility 
in engineering: research, process 
development,-'' production, and 
technical services. After the open­
ing renfarks by the panel, the 
floor will be open for questions. 
This program should be of par­
ticular interest to senior engineer­
ing students and undergraduates 
seeking summer employment in 
industry. The program has been 
scheduled just prior to the re­
cruiting season so that it may as­
sist the student in determining 
what type of job would both in­
terest him and suit his capabili­
ties. All the panelists are Car­
negie Tech alumni. Mr. George 
Smith, who will represent re­
search, received his Ph.D. from 
Carnegie Tech in 1956 after grad-
CFP Sponsors 
Blood Drive, So 
Give Brothers Give
uation from the University of 
Pittsburgh in 1950. He has worked ! 
for Mellon Institute, General 
Electric, duPont, and is presently 
employed by Jones & Laughlin 
Steel.
Mr. Alfred Henke will speak on 
process development. He received 
his B.S. from Carnegie Tech in 
1948 and his M.S. from the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh in 1951. He 
has since been employed by Gulf 
Research and Development and is 
now Section Supervisor of the 
Petrochemical Raw Materials and 
Lubricating Oils Research Section.
Mr. Onorio Colucci will present 
the aspects of production engin­
eering. He graduated from Car­
negie Tech in 1951, and from 
then until 1956, he worked for 
General Tire and Rubber as a 
production supervisor. Since 1956 
he has been a plant engineer with 
Pittsburgh Chemical.
Mr. Bill Tunney, a Mechanical 
Engineering graduate from Car­
negie Tech, will discuss technical 
services. He has worked for St.
I Joseph Lead since his graduation 
and is presently Plant Mainten­
ance Engineer with the Zinc 
Smelting Division.
Kiltie Band Gives 
W inter Concert
The Kiltie Band is presenting 
its Formal Winter Concert this 
Friday, February 16. The pro­
gram will begin at 8:1C p.m. in 
Carnegie Music Hall, will include 
a variety of selections, among 
them “Beatrice and Benedict,” 
“William Byrd Suite,,” “Irish 
Tune from County Derry,” “Polka 
and Fugue,” “Selections from 
My Fair Lady,” and “Crown Im­
perial.” Mr. Philip Catelinet, as­
sociate director, will conduct two 
pieces, including one of his own 
compositions, “Nottingham Fair.” 
This will be the first public per­
formance of the work. The rest 
of the concert will be conducted 
by Mr. Richard Strange, the di­
rector. '
Several specials are also on the 
program. A bassoon solo will be 
played by Carlton Jones, a Car­
negie Tech music major. The 
Wind Ensemble, a select group of 
| band members, will play one se- 
lection, “Theme and Variations” 
; by Arnold Schoenberg. Dr. Mar- 
| shall Bidwell will accompany the 
I band on the organ for two selee- 
j tions.
Tickets for the concert may be 
I purchased from any band mem­
ber or at the box office on Friday 
evening. Student tickets are 50c; 
Adults, $1.00.
LUCKY STRIKE 
presents: /WERSCOEDS
i? YOU WANT TOTAK6 UP <501i RsnF m
SOVÆ OF TtíS ÓKEAT&5T lAWVEŸS CQWC FKO.Vt SíAte — ÇOCTOKS anh? chemists 
L5AN' TO WESTLZN ü.- If SOlSRt 
A mumss CAREES,TAKE «ÜL- - HERE «S AN 
vO«ViU£C0LL66£ 6UUETI&Í tff&PUATE*
MOTHIM gUT'pLAV 60YSÍ----MOP,-

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 16 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, 1963
Student Government
This is the first of a series of articles concerning the Stu­
dent Government of Tech. In the following weeks articles 
describing the work of Executive Council, Student Congress 
and its various committees will appear in the Tartan.
The Student Court, as the judi-4——----------------------------------------------—
ciary arm of Student Government, is essentially free of administra-
exists to hear cases of infraction 
of the rules as set up by the con­
stitution of the Student Govern- 
m- .t. More specifically, .ts au­
thority covers charges of miscon­
duct brought against students or 
student organizations and consti­
tutional disputes between the ex­
ecutive and legislative branches 
of Student Government. The court 
has seven justices chosen at large 
from the student body, one of 
whom is elected chief justice. 
These justices have one year 
terms, three of which expire in 
January and four in May of each 
school year. The Student Court
Library
Changes
A change in library policy con­
cerning notification of overdue 
books became effective at the be­
ginning of the second semester of 
the 1961-1962 school year.
Notification of overdue non-re­
serve books will now be sent to 
the borrower two weeks after the 
date on which the books are due. 
A second notification will be sent 
four weeks after the first notifi­
cation. This is a change from the 
previous system under which the 
first notification was sent five 
days after the date on which the 
books were due and a second no­
tification was sent two weeks after 
the first notification. Monetary 
fines will remain the same.
The primary purpose for this 
change is to lighten the burden 
placed on the library staff by 
needless paperwork. Officials of 
the Hunt Library have found that 
most books become overdue mere­
ly because the borrower forgot to 
return them and that many are 
returned before the five-day no­
tice can arrive to serve as a re­
minder.
Many books have been kept by 
borrowers even after notifications 
have been sent. This is more a 
problem of getting the borrower 
to renew his books if he desires 
to keep them after the date they 
are due. Borrowers are frequent­
ly unaware that a book may be 
renewed without bringing it to the 
library. Renewal of a title is de­
nied only when it has been re­
quested by another student or by ! 
a faculty member.
Renewal of a book can be ac- J 
complished simply by giving the , 
call number of the book to the ! 
library staff and having the card 
stamped with the new due date. ¡ 
It is not necessary that the book 
be stamped with this new date. | 
The borrower may simply write j 
in the new due date for his own ¡ 
record. Renewal of books in this ! 
manner can also be done by tele- ; 
phone.
Library officials hope that more 
borowers will use the privilege 
advantageously, thus benefitting 
both themselves and the library.
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain- - 
ment schedule.
hold WebM W ot!l
441 i'Fiflfe Av**u.LYTT
i Pitt*bvrgh 13, fa. 
MArK«w«r 1 7700
tion control within its areas of 
jurisdiction and the only appeal 
to its decisions is the Court of 
Appeals, composed of representa­
tives of all the courts of Student 
Government.
Currently, James Sharkey is the 
Chief Justice of the Student Court 
and Mark Appelbaum, Fred Got- 
temoeller, Ralph Debusmann, 
Gary Schwerzler, Larry Schin- 
nick, and Marilyn Miller are the 
remaining justices.
CHUBBY CHECKER
Model of a synchronous ceuwnunications satel­
lite being: built for NASA by Hughes Aircraft Com­
pany, Culver City, California, is shown by Dr. Fred 
P. Adler, manager of the Hughes space systems 
division. Syncon, scheduled for launch late this 
year, will have an orbital speed matched to the
earth’s rotation and therefore will appear to hover 
over a fixed longitude. Dr. Adler announced the 
company plans to hire 800 engineers of all degree 
levels to work on Syncom, the Surveyor lunar 
spacecraft, and other challenging space projects.
standout?
Then you belong with Alcoa! We beat 
the whole world to commercial pro­
duction of aluminum. We’ve stayed 
ahead of the crowd, these 70 years, 
by hiring people like you. At Alcoa, 
you’ll find both a good starting salary 
and the chance to flex your abilities.
Here you’ll help work wonders 
with aluminum, a metal basic to our
worlds of today and tomorrow. Alcoa 
does so much with aluminum, there’s 
room to grow for college graduates 
with all types of degrees.
Our training program starts you 
most anywhere: Production, Engi­
neering, Industrial Sales, Sales Ad­
ministration, Research & Develop­
ment. Then you go as high as your
ability permits with Alcoa. In au­
thority. In income. On merit Your 
first step is to see the Placement 
Director now and set up your Alcoa 
interview on campus.
I
ALCOA ALUMINUM
ALUMINUM COMPANY Of AMERICA
ALCOA INTERVIEWS AT CARNEGIE TECH 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1962I
See Placement Director today for your appointment!
All qualified applicant* will r*c*iv* coniideration for employ» 
meni without regard la r«<«,
tMK.:

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TAJRTAN — Pare 17
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
WINSTON TASTES GOOD like a cigarette should!
iFlLTER-BLENDlis yours in Winston and only Winston. 
Up front you get rich golden tobaccos specially selected 
and specially processed for filter smoking. Smoke Winston.
1 HOUR DRY CLEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
Campus Cleaners
(One Block From Morewood Ave.) 
Open Daily From 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Life On Mars; 
Latest Evidence
This is one of the topics dis­
cussed in the February issue of 
the CARNEGIE TECHNICAL. 
Victor Kachur’s article, “Life on 
Mars: Latest Evidence,” presents 
some tentative conclusions on this 
question based on the latest astro- 
physical studies.
Also included in this first issue 
of the TECHNICAL’S twenty- 
sixth year of existance is an arti­
cle by Arthur Tarr entitled “The 
International Practical Tempera­
ture Scale.” Robert Mattauch con­
tributes an article on basic quan­
tum mechanical princr'ples, which 
is called “Optical Pumping.”
In an effort to present more 
diversified articles, this month’s 
TECHNICAL also includes two 
articles from the Departments of 
Industrial Management and Fine 
Arts. The first is “An Economic 
Control Plan” by Michael Adler. 
This article deals with minimiz­
ing the cost of production in in­
dustry. The other article, “A Tale 
of Three Cities,” examines the 
methods used in planning the lay­
out of a city.
New GSIA Deans
[Continued from page I] 
elected vice president in charge 
of research and education of the 
Institute of Management Sciences 
and is chairman of the Institute’s 
research committee. He is also a 
member of the American Statis­
tical Association’s committee on 
‘Statistics in Accounting.”
He is widely known among ac­
countants and auditors as “one 
of the few theoretical statisticians 
who has enough understanding of 
accounting to place statistics in 
practical application in our fields.” 
Professor Cyert is a consultant 
to the federal government, for the 
Gulf Oil Corporation, and the ac- 
coutning firm of Touche, Ross, 
Bailey and Smart. He was the or­
ganizer of the original group de­
veloping the Carnegie Manage­
ment Game which has been an 
unqualified success. He has writ­
ten many articles in leading 
journals in the fields of economics, 
accounting, statistics, and man­
agement, and is co-author of 
Sampling Techniques in Account­
ing, Prentice-Hall, 1957.
Professor Dill 
Professor Dill has been at Car­
negie Tech since 1955. He received 
his B.A. degree from Bates Col­
lege, and his M.S. and Ph.D. de­
grees from Carnegie Tech. Since 
1959, he has been assistant dean 
of the Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration.
He has written articles in many 
professional journals and a book 
Managerial Decision Making, pub­
lished by the University of Chi­
cago Industrial Relations Center.
At Carnegie, his main interests 
have been in the Management 
Game and in studying the appli­
cation of the behavioral sciences 
to administraii**» nrocesses-
6VIV9 Auditions To 
Commence Sat.
President Stu Warshawsky of 
the-Scotch anti Soda Club has an­
nounced that try-outs for “Viv” 
have been scheduled for the en­
suing Saturdays. Open auditions— 
one may come at any time—will 
be held in the All Purpose Room 
of Skibo from 1:00-5:00 
the seventeenth and twenty- 
fourth of the month. The Board 
has requested that all applicants 
have ready one song of their own 
choosing.
The Board has announced that, 
in stong contrast to the last pro­
duction, this years show will be 
community theater. This means 
that it will be more of a group 
affair, as opposed to a formal or­
ganizational one.
Warshawsky has anounced that 
the members of the Board will 
be seen wearing red circular tags 
this week, and has requested that 
any questions be addressed to 
them.
partment of Commerce.
Dean Bach has b^n active as 
a consultant to federal government 
agencies since joining the Car­
negie Tech faculty. He has served 
as special consultant to the Sec­
retary of the Treasury and to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve Board. In 1948, he was 
on leave of absence as survey of­
ficer in charge of the study of the 
Federal Reserve System for the 
“Hoover Commission.” He has 
also been a consultant on econ­
omic planning and executive de­
velopment to leading industrial 
firms, the Ford Foundation, and 
the Carnegie Corporation of New
York.
His activities in the American 
Economic Association include 
service as a member of its execu­
tive committee, as chairman of its 
committee on graduate study in 
economics, on its ecommittee on 
honors and awards, and as a mem­
ber of the board of editors of the 
American Economic Review. Dean 
Bach also holds memberships in 
the American Finance Association, 
the Business-Education Advisory 
Board of the Committee for Econ­
omic Development, and is a mem­
ber of the Board of Directors of 
the Pittsburgh Branch of the Fed­
eral Reserve Bank of Cleveland.
Grk ebVrk l! •»*nr rbVr ^*lnrk
omics in
written four other books and nu-
merous articles in the fields of 
money and banking, economic 
policy, executive development, 
and business education. He has 
been a leading figure *n the Amer­
ican Economic Association and re­
cently completed service as chair­
man of the National Task Force 
on Economics Education which 
two monthse ago published a re­
port advocating major changes in 
economicss education at the sec­
ondary school level in the United 
States.
He is a graduate of Grinnell 
College, Iowa, and received his 
Ph.D. from the University of Chi­
cago. In 1956, he become the 
youngest man ever to receive an 
honorary degree from Grinnell, 
when he was awarded a Doctor 
of Laws degree. Before coming to 
Carnegie Tech, he was chief 
economist in the United States De-
FATS DOMINO
Bach Resigns
[Continued from page 1] 
as Maurice Falk Professor, Dr. J. 
Steele Gow, executive director of 
the Maurice and Laura Falk Foun­
dation, said, *‘We are delighted 
that such a distinguished econ­
omist and educator as Dean Bach 
has been selected as Maurice Falk 
Professor. The leadership and 
ability he has displayed as dean 
of the Graduate School of Indus­
trial Administration indicates to 
us that he will utilize the profes­
sorship to the fullest and continue 
to make important contributions 
to Carnegie Tech and to education 
in the United States.”
Dean Bach is the third Maurice 
Falk Professor. The distinguished 
chair was established in 1937 by 
the Maurice and Laura Falk Foun­
dation and is credited with launch­
ing Carnegie Tech’s social rela­
tions program, which has become 
a major part of the Carnegie Plan 
oi Education. The Falk Founda­
tion was the first group to give 
financial support to Carnegie’s 
program of liberal studies in the 
humanities and social sciences 
which constitute a part of all pro­
fessional curriculums.
Professional Background
Dean Bach has been at Carnegie 
Tech since 1946 when he joined 
the faculty as professor and head 
of the department of economics. 
When the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration was 
founded three years later, he be­
came its first dean.
Author of one of the most wide-

---------------------------------------------------

gl . . < ; KING
iGAl^RTTES
use £fr & M7£ft3 TOBACCO
BELL
SYSTEM 
ON 
CAMPUS 
Feb. 27 and 28
Patterns Calls Writers, Artists
PATTERNS is accepting work in two areas:
1. A general category covering work on any and all 
subjects.
2. A “Hill” category drawing from work stimulated by 
the Hill District.
For those people interested in finding more informa­
tion on the “Hill,” the PATTERNS staff extends an 
invitation to come to their meetings held on Sunday 
evenings at 7:00 p.m. in room 36, Skibo.
ENTRY RULES FOR SUBMITTING MATERIAL
The deadline for all work is the first week of March.
1. All students of Carnegie Tech, graduate and undergrad­
uate, may submit art work and literature to PAT­
TERNS.
2. All work will be acknowledged whether or not it is 
chosen for publication.
3. SPECIFICATIONS FOR ART WORK:
Photography, architecture, prints, designs, photographs 
of sculpture, architecture and stage design may be sub­
mitted.
4. SPECIFICATNIONS FOR LITERATURE:
Essays, poetry, short stories, vignettes, dialogues and fa­
bles may be submitted.
5. The above categories are not restrictive. Anything apro­
pos to the magazine will be considered.
6. Submit a carbon copy of literary material as all con­
tributions become the property of PATTERNS and can­
not be returned.
7. Send material to: PATTERNS
CAMPUS MAIL 
BOX 402
PATTERNS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN THE SPRING.
Goldenfeld's Market
414 SOUTH CRAIG ST. j
The most complete Self Serve store
Meats, Groceries, Frozen Food, Butter, Eggs, Cheese,
and also a complete line of General Merchandise with < 
personal, courteous service, home-like atmosphere.
Special discounts for fraternities 
and large parties
CHEMICAL GRADUATES
Qtlas. a medium-sized, diversified chemical organi­
zation offers opportunity and responsibility to 
qualified men at all degree levels in Chemistry and 
Chemical Engineering.
Draining through orientation and on-the-job 
assignments assist new members of our technical staff 
to adjust rapidly to the stimulating world of industrial 
chemistry.
Qisting our major products—polyols, polyester resins, 
surfactants, activated carbons, pharmaceuticals, ex­
plosives— only partially indicates the variety of our 
interests. Employment is available in product develop­
ment, process development, product research, produc* 
tion supervision, quality control, and other areas,
Qdvancement on merit, interesting projects, tuition 
aid, modern facilities, and planned programs of per­
sonal development all suit the man interested in his 
future.
0ee your placement officer now. Make an appoint­
ment to discuss your career opportunities with our 
representative who will visit your campus on—
MARCH 14th, 1962
YUdSaRC
ATLAS CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES, ino. 
A* optortunit, •**<*«. WILMINGTON 99, DELAWARE
P*fe 1* — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 14, !»&>
Representatives of the following Companies will be 
here to Interview Engineering, Mathematics and 
Science Majors and graduate students in Engineering 
and Industrial Administration
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
Planning, Operations and Accounting 
(Representing Telephone Companies throughout the United States)
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY SANDIA CORPORATION
Manufacturing & Distribution Research Development—Nuclear Weapons
BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES
Research and Development
’ansideration will be given to all qualified applicants without regard to age, race, creed, color or national origin
Make Your Appointment Now with Your Placement Office
sic FLICS
“Another Chesterfield? But 
I just gave you one last week!”
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD -THEY SATISFY

---------------------------------------------------

I
K.
Wednesday, February 14, 1H2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pace 1«
Rovmg Report un(jer \ Rainy Sky, Two-Alone-On The Cut
TOPIC: Spring vacation or 
traditional Easter vacation?
Chuck Weber, freshman E&S 
I would just as soon continue 
straight on to Easter vacation. I 
think an extra break would just 
lengthen the spring term into the 
summer months.
Anne Mauro, sophomore, P&D 
I i ink the traditional Easter 
vacation should be replaced by a 
mid-semester spring vacation. 
Easter vacation just isn’t long 
enough and a spring vacation 
would break the semester evenly. 
Being a commuter, it really 
doesn’t make much difference to 
me, but I do think a break in 
^ mid-semester would be better 
w than the long wait till Easter. 
Sharan Brady, freshman, Eng.
I prefer the Easter vacation. 
After three vacations at such 
short intervals I think its good 
to get back the feeling that we’re 
here to work and not just waiting 
to rush home again. Frequent 
trips home are hard on the pock- 
etbook, too.
Robert Metcalfe, Chem. Eng.
£ I would rather have a mid-se­
mester break. Coming from a high 
school which utilized' such a break 
I am familiar with the results. In 
general, I should say that it breaks 
up the monotony of a long ses­
sion, thereby making it easier on 
the student. Such a plan pro­
motes a better ‘well being of the 
student because it breaks up the 
ten or eleven solid weeks of work. 
R. F. Zollo, junior, Civil Eng.
0 I feel that any arrangement 
that would give more time to 
“get away” would be satisfactory 
to most students. However, the 
long haul before a slightly ex­
tended Easter vacation would 
make this vacation even more ap­
preciated. No matter what plan is 
accepted, if any, it is still better 
to curse the darkness.
M. M. Logue, junior, Civil Eng. 
Probably it would be better to
0 light just one little candle.
HELP!
If you are interested in any 
of the various aspects which go 
into publishing the campus 
newspaper, come in to see the 
® staff at work and tell us of your 
interest. We will be in the 
TARTAN office, Skibo 50 every 
Sunday from 2-6. Ask for 
Sally Farrell or Allan Kullen.
Photo by Jone«
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
“CREDIT-ABLE” SUMMERS
TOURS - JOBS - COURSES
Go to an archeological “dig” in Great Britain
Earn college credit at the Sorbonne, Universities of Hawaii, 
Perugia, Madrid and others
Relax on the glamorous Riviera
Meet students at universities abroad
Interview government officials in other countries
Take riding, gliding and sailing courses in Germany or 
Switzerland
Study international law in Luxembourg
Take a job in Europe
Swim in the warm Caribbean
Many other uniusual possibilities
Complete Free of Charge Service
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
Pittsburgh International Travel
JOANNE L. BLUM, President 
(Former Assistant Director, Foreign Policy Association of Pgh.)
Call EXpress 1-1040 ________________
Tapa
Prints
The bark cloth prints of the Hawaiian 
Islands inspired us to design a new 
collection of shirts completely 
different in coloring and pattern. 
We are sure you will want to 
add one or more of these fine 
shirts to your casual wardrobe. 
Tailored so well it looks 
personally measured. Button-down 
collar-tapered waistline.
Long sleeves *5.00 
Short sleeves *4.00
-ARROW-
From the
“Cum Laude Collectionm

---------------------------------------------------

P»ffe 20 —¦ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February ?•. 1963
WANTED
Students able to rea<l 
French, Spanish, or 
ftalian fluently an<l 
conversationally.
For audition write:
House of Four Languages, Inc., 
50*Fifth Ave., 
McKeesport, Pa.
For Shoes See . . .WALLYS
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN
U.S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night ’till 9 P.M.
“NAVIGATION IS OUR BUSINESS"
AC SPARK PLUG
The Electronics Division 
of General Motors
Our current projects include development and production of Inertial 
Guidance Systems for the TITAN II, THOR and MACE missiles. We ara 
olso the Systems Integration Manager for the modified B-52C&D Bomb­
ing Navigation System. In the commercial field, AC has developed and 
is now producing a new mobile radiotelephone. Research and develop­
ment programs include navigation systems for mobile ICBMs, space 
vehicles, supersonic aircraft and ocean-going vessels.
AC is seeking qualified engineers and physicists to fill permanent posi­
tions in Milwaukee, Boston and Los Angeles. You may qualify for employ­
ment if you have a BS or MS degree in Electrical Engineering, Mechani- 
cal Engineering or Physics. Advanced positions are also available for 
men who ore completing their doctorates with specialization in naviga­
tion and related fields.
To provide V transition from academic learning to practical caroor 
development AC offers the following training programs:
,GaHRf-II
Career Acceleration Program — A twelve-month program with formalized 
classroom instruction given in conjunction with rotating job assignment« 
in Manufacturing, Reliability and Engineering. Courses include:
Ballistic and Cruise Missile Basic Principle* of Inertial
Laboratory Sessions Guidance
Advanced Servomechanisms Semi-conductor Technology
Principles of Airborne Digital Probability and Statistics
Computers Philosophy of Reliability
Field Service Program — Two- to four-month classroom and laboratory 
training on inertial guidance systems or bombing navigation system«. 
Domestic and foreign assignments follow completion of program.
PMCSML
Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training 
Program — AC's Boston Laboratory is engaged in developing advanced 
inertial guidance equipment primarily for application in earth-bound 
vehicles.
aMC RLyIaIC
Advanced Concepts Research and Development On-the-Job Training 
Program — AC's Los Angeles Laboratory is occupied with advanced 
guidance research for space vehicles and ballistic missiles, plus ad­
vanced research in special purpose digital computers.
CBB 1BB» Y*DDB7B hDV^B2Bnr M••4^B »B7V»g4n7 On V!!*4nr2Bnr D*» V !B»k*nVD 
4nrB»54Be e4rb rbB yBnB»VD ,*r*»k Vng RY TB!»BkBnrVr45*/
Wednesday, February 14
H vnable fo apply in person send résumé to Mr, G. F. Raasch, 
Director of Scientific and Professional Employment, Dept. 57S3,
79.\ South Howell, Milwaukee I, Wisconsin.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Ask your hDV^B2Bnr M••4^B» •V» RYjk nBe Employment •»*^•^*»B/
AC SPARK PLUG
The Electronics Division of General Motors
MILWAUKEE • LOS ANGELES • BOSTON
AChierer Inertial Guidance Systems for Titan If, Thor and Mace. Bombing 
Navigation Systems for the —w].Y—s Vng P 47. AChieverfonm MobilV 
Radiotelephone System*.
Grove City Smashes Four Pool 
Records In Downing Tartans
By Ken Kantrowitz
In beating the Tartan mermen 
72-23 at Tech pool on Wednes­
day, January 17, the Grove City 
Wolverines put on one of the most 
awesome demonstrations of power 
ever seen against a Tech swim­
ming team as they smashed four 
all-time Tech pool records. In the 
opening 400 yard medley relay, 
the Grovers with Raupack, Rom- 
bough, Monahan, and Tulenko 
eclipsed the old standard set by 
Grove City in 1961 by 7.0 sec­
onds with a time of 4:07.8.
In the 220 freestyle, Tech co­
captain Tom Vandersalm captur­
ed Tech’s only first place of the 
afternoon. Ron Kowachp laced 
second in the 50 freestyle, just : 
being touched out for first place. | 
Stadler, one of Grove City’s out­
standing fresumen, then shattered ; 
the existing record of 2:26.7 set j 
by West Virginia’s Kohler in 1961 
with a time of 2:24.4. Tech co- 
captain Steve Straser. placed sec- j 
ond. After the Grovers swept the 
diving, they smashed their third 
pool record of the day in the 200 j 
butterfly with a blistering 2.20.0
Artists Supplies, Inc.
of
CbVg1k4gB 
d4DDV7B
PRE-INVENTORY 
CLEARANCE
recorded by Monahan as he sur­
passed the year old record of 
2:22.3 set by Irvine of West Vir­
ginia. Ken Kantrov/itz of Tech 
finished second.
The only impediment to Grove 
City’s complete sweep of the last 
five events was Vandersalm’s 
second in the 440 freestyle, one 
of his best performances. The 
Wolverine team of Stadler, Tu­
lenko, Monahan and Davidson es­
tablished the fourth pool mark 
of the afternoon in the 400 free­
style relay with a powerful 3:41.3, 
surpassing Oberlin’s old mark by 
4 seconds. The undefeated Grov­
ers, the small college district 
powerhouse now has a mark of 
7-0 while Tech stands at 1-4.
For the third time this season, 
Vandersalm led all Tech scorers, 
followed by Strasen, Kantrowitz 
and Kowach. Mike Monahan, who 
swam for Taylor Allderdice and 
South Hills High Schools in Pitts­
burgh, was superb as he set one 
individual record and led Grove 
City to records in the two relay 
events. Stadler and Tulenko were 
responsible for two records 
apiece.
The old Tech nemesis, scholastic 
ineligibility, will play a key role 
as the Tartans begin the second 
semester.
CALL IS OUT FOR 
TRACK PARTICIPANTS
The returning trackmen from 
the ’61 season extend an invita­
tion to all Tech men interested in 
participating i n intercollegiate 
track to our first week of practice 
which is now in progress. Prac­
tices continue through Friday in 
Thistle Hall from 4:30 to 5:20. It 
;s necessary that you bring your 
own equipment and towels. Next 
week, practice will be on our new 
track and the team will meet in 
th locker room in the sub-base­
ment of Donner Hall at 4:30. Dur­
ing the week, practice uniforms 
will be given out.
We stress the fact that previous 
experience is definitely not nec­
essary. Several of the top men oh 
last year’s team had no track ex­
perience before coming to Tech. 
Also another important point is 
that although you may now be in 
sad physical condition you have 
(effectively) until May to get intc 
condition. Our nrst mw. Is on 1 
April 7, but the tough part of our 
schedule comes in May.
Freshmen and sophomore track 
participants are excused from 
gym.
With some support from you 
newcomers, we feel tha track can 
definitely become a winning sport 
at Tech.
SMALL OILS — WATER 
COLORS — PASTELS 
729 Filbert St. MA. 1-6166
I M ALL - SCHOOL VOLLEYBALL TEAM
The above men were elected to the All-School Volleyball team, 
They are (from L-R): Bill McClure, SAE; Butch Gabriel, ATO; Marr. 
Buban, SAE; Mike Yablon, TDP; Carl Katz, TDP; and Steve Rothen- 
bergr, TDP. Buban was selected as the MVP.
The Tech-Western Reserve 200-yard medley race.
Photo by Skalka
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street, North Side 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue • 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falls, Pa 
Tarentum • Koppel • Lower Burrell • Coraopolis. two offtcoa
You can bank with us by mat!
You mean 
you put all 
our money 
in a Union National 
Bank savings 
account?
Sure did. They 
pay 3^2% now— 
and they’re the 
only bank in town 
that pays the 
interest four times 
a year. We earn 
more money 
that way.
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
