Inside
Calendar.................................................L14
Classified..................................................L3
Comics.....................................„..............L6
Diversions.................................................L9
Forum..........................................................6
Living....................................;.................LI
Sports.........................................................12
Forum
Animal rights: pro and 
con • see page 7
Sports
Men’s b-ball places second in 
tourney • see page 12
This is the last issue 
of The Tartan for the 
year. Have a safe and 
pleasant holiday!
Volume 90, Issue 12Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 19064 December 1995
Harassment policy...
Faculty Senate 
amends proposal
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Faculty Senate has amended 
its proposed sexual harassment 
policy to resolve what Senate 
Chair Teddy Seidenfeld called 
a “pseudo-conflict” between free 
speech and federal guidelines.
The new policy is intended to 
clarify the role of supervisors 
on campus in spotting and 
dealing with sexual harass­
ment. It would also provide a 
mechanism to investigate 
alleged incidents of harass­
ment.
But critics charged that the 
proposed creation of a fact­
finding committee, composed 
of students, faculty, and staff, 
was tantamount to a “star 
chamber.” Others felt that the 
policy — intended to deal only 
with sexual harassment in the 
workplace — was too vaguely 
worded, and that it could be 
applied to anyone, anywhere, 
including students.
The controversy grew further 
when the local chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union, 
in a letter to the University, 
said that the policy’s ban on 
“intimidating, hostile, or 
offensive” work environments 
might pose a threat to free 
speech.
In response, Senate voted last 
Thursday to amend the policy 
so that “discourse conducted in 
accordance with the University 
Policy on Free Speech and 
Assembly” will not be subject 
to the sexual harassment 
guidelines.
“I think we can safely say 
that we can endorse this,” said 
MCS Associate Dean Juan 
Schaffer, who chaired the 
committee that wrote the 
proposed policy.
Schaffer said that sexual 
harassment is a case of “misuse 
of authority” by faculty of staff 
members.
“I don’t see how the 
Please see SENATE, page 5
Golden triangle?
CMU student has Olympic dreams
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Mike Monaco is a self-described
“fanatic.”
His passion is the Olympics.
He collects statistics and
memorabilia from the games like
some people collect baseball cards
and box scores. He attended the
1992 Summer Games in
Barcelona and already has his
tickets for next year’s Games in
Atlanta.
But if Monaco has his way, some
day, he won’t have to fly halfway
around the world to see the
•Olympics. Monaco wants the
Games to come to Pittsburgh.
A sophomore majoring in
computer science, Monaco is
KaMm' yjfefe w ¦*"' -hairman, secretary, treasurer,
and the sole member of the
i Pittsburgh Olympic Bid
Organizing Committee. His goal
is to see the city host the Summer
Games in 2012.
—i----------------------------------------------------------------------------t-To achieve that end, he wantsJason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager to gain enough community
If CS sophomore Mike Monaco has his way, CMU might host events support, and enough members, 
like fencing at the Summer Olympics in 2012. so that his group can propose the
idea to Pittsburgh Mayor Tom 
Murphy and other local officials. 
Along the way, he’d like to recruit 
business leaders, the city’s 
colleges and universities, and the 
general public.
“A lot of people feel that this 
area needs some sort of economic 
boost—some sort of vision,” said 
Monaco. A new park for the 
Pittsburgh Pirates is nice, he said, 
but “there needs to be more that.
I don’t think that the current 
civic leaders have any real vision 
or any idea of where [the region] 
is headed.”
Many people don’t share 
Monaco’s vision for the region.
“It’s a pipe dream,” said 
sportswriter Bill Modoono, who 
covered the 1988 Games in Seoul 
for The Pittsburgh Press. “I can’t 
think of a city that the Olympics 
fit less well than Pittsburgh. It’s 
a really unrealistic way to get a 
shot in the arm.”
“My first reaction is that it’s a 
pretty outrageous idea,” said 
Todd Erkel of the Greater 
Pittsburgh Convention and 
Please see OLYMPICS, page 3
Power outage blacks 
out campus computersHornbostel buildings get touch-up
Maggie Mo, Hamerschlag restoration is underway
New email system comes on-line next year
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Next year, Computing Ser­
vices will make a change that 
affects more than 11,000 mem­
bers of the CMU community at 
least once a week.
A new email system, named 
“Cyrus” after a Persian emperor 
who deployed the first mail de­
livery system in his country, is 
currently under development. 
Cyrus will replace the current 
Andrew Message System 
(AMS).
The new mail system is sup­
posed to be up and running by 
July 1, just in time for next year’s 
incoming class. The decision to
develop a new system resulted 
from the gargantuan growth in 
the use of email, bulletin boards, 
and newsgroups in recent years.
Every week, half of the CMU
designed to handle such a load. 
“What we’re seeing is that in­
coming messages for bulletin 
boards are taking longer to file,” 
said John Gardiner Myers, sys-
“The mail system is really creaking 
under the load. ”
— John Gardiner Myers, 
Computing Services programmer
community logs into the current 
mail system. Of the 17,000 us­
ers in the system, a full 11,000 
are considered “active” users.
The old mail system wasn’t
tem architect at Computing Ser­
vices and designer of much of 
the project. “Occasionally, some­
thing will break and well start 
getting two- to three-day delays.”
The other problem, said Myers, 
is that the Andrew Mail System 
is very UNIX-centric. “PCs and 
Macintoshes have to go through 
a translator machine,” he said, 
“and these translation ma­
chines are not very efficient.” 
Also of concern is the system’s 
reliance on the Andrew File 
System, which itself is likely to 
be replaced soon.
The new m ail system has sev­
eral enhancements over the 
current system. Cyrus project 
manager Matt Wall said that 
the system will replace AMS 
with a “modern, scaleable, stan- 
dards-based architecture that 
will last for a long time ... [and] 
Please see CYRUS, page 5
Bosnia-bound soldiers 
get Clinton pep talk
BYRON FOURNIER
Associated Press Staffwriter
BAUMHOLDER, Germany, Dec. 2 — To lusty roars of approval,
| President Clinton told American troops headed for Bosnia peace­
keeping duty what they wanted to hear today: “If you are threatened 
with attack, you may respond immediately and with decisive force.” 
Addressing 4,000 soldiers in camouflage fatigues and standing in 
| formation, Clinton declared, “Everyone should know that when 
America comes to help make the peace, America will still look after 
its own.” Both the soldiers and their families cheered.
The remarks were designed to boost the morale of troops, help 
build support in Congress and gain the confidence of a skeptical 
American public.
But even with aggressive rules of engagement, Clinton warned 
that casualties could occur once 20,000 U.S. ground troops are sent 
to the war-ravaged country to help implement a fragile peace treaty.
“As president, I take full responsibility for your well-being, but I 
also take pride in the knowledge that we are making this mission as
Please see CLINTON, page 5
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Shortly before 11 am Sunday, the 
entire Andrew network collapsed in 
the wake of electrical and cooling 
failures. Email, newsgroups, Apple­
Talk, the Windows network, and 
Internet connectivity were affected. The 
library’s cataloging and circulation 
systems also went down.
Walter Wong, Andrew system 
manager, said that the central problem 
was a power loss at Warner Hall, which 
caused a chain of events that paralyzed 
the network. “Warner Hall controls the 
air-conditioning glycol systems, so we 
lost air-conditioning here [at Cyert 
Hall],” said Wong. “Then there was a 
power interruption.” The glycol system 
cools the network equipment, which 
generates a lot of heat.
One of the central problems was that 
the backup uninterruptible power 
supply (UPS), which is supposed to 
come on-line automatically in such 
situations, failed to work. This is the 
second time the unit has failed in the 
last several months.
“Right now, we’re trying to track down
someone from Physical Plant and get 
some real answers from them [on the 
issue],” said Wong.
Erikas Aras Napjus, manager of 
network development, said that while 
efforts were underway to restore the 
network, staffers had to be careful not 
to bring it back up too quickly. The 
network is sensitive to power 
fluctuations. If the power had failed 
again, or if it was unstable, there could 
be serious damage.
“It’s definitely to our advantage to 
wait until things get stable before we 
power up again,” said Napjus. “Last 
time we got a power failure and the 
UPS failed ... we lost about $40,000 
worth of equipment [in the network 
area].
“It’s a conflicting desire ... because 
it’s near finals ... A lot of people are 
working on projects and trying to get 
them done now,” he said. Computing 
Services wanted to restore the network 
quickly without losing hardware.
By 2 pm, the network appeared to be 
fully operational, although library 
staffers said that the computer systems 
there were not back to normal until 
about 2:45.
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffiuriter
The University is launching an effort to stop the 
deterioration of two of its landmarks — Henry Hornbostel’s 
Hamerschlag and Margaret Morrison Carnegie Halls.
The work on Hamerschlag is primarily confined to the 
building’s tower. The building, which was finished in 1914, 
has had exterior repairs over the years, including pointing, 
masonry work, and a brick cleaning over the years but 
nothing as extensive as this restoration.
“The terra cotta on Hamerschlag is deteriorating so badly 
that pieces are starting to fall off,” said Russell Laufer, 
project manager for the renovations. Laufer, a 1983 graduate 
of the Architecture Department, works for Mt. Lebanon 
architect Lucien Caste.
Last spring, Caste — a 1950 graduate — was called in to 
assess the condition of Hamerschlag and Margaret Morrison.
Water had been leaking in the interior of Hamerschlag, 
and the decorative ledge, or balustrade, that runs along 
Margaret Morrison was crumbling.
To remedy the water leaks at Hamerschlag and other 
problems, the parapet wall will be rebuilt and the roof will be 
waterproofed.
At Margaret Morrison, the balustrade will be restored.
The work will include repointing the terra cotta joints, 
cleaning and repair, and reflashing the roof to achieve a 
watertight seal.
The work at Maggie Mo will be completed in about a 
month, while the Hamerschlag restoration will continue Scaffolding will cover Hamerschlag Hall’s tower until next year 
Please see RENOVATION, page 3 as a major restoration effort begins.

---------------------------------------------------

CMUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
Page Z...
Rite Aid swallowing Revco
Several local stores will likely be closed
I TWINSBURG, Ohio, Dec. 1 (AP) —
More than 1,000 jobs at Revco head­
quarters here probably will be elimi­
nated during 1996 if Rite Aid Corp.’s 
deal to acquire Revco D.S. Inc. is com­
pleted, said Rite Aid’s chairman.
! The loss could be a big blow to the 
northeast Ohio city of 15,000 people, 
flevco is the second largest employer 
m Twinsburg, behind a Chrysler plant 
that employs about 2,400 people.
; “You obviously don’t like it when 
£ou might lose your second biggest 
Employer. Anything like this would be 
shock,” Twinsburg Mayor James 
irabec said.
He said the Revco jobs produced 
$560,000 in taxes last year, about eight 
percent of the city’s
income tax rev 
enue.
Hevco spokesman Thomas G. 
Dingledy said about 880 people work 
at the headquarters, but Martin Grass, 
Rite Aid chairman and chief execu­
tive, estimated the workforce atl,100. 
Grass said only about 50 jobs will be 
added to the Rite Aid headquarters if 
the deal goes through.
In 1991, Rite Aid sought to buy out
Revco for about $693 million. At that 
time, Revco had 1,150 stores in 10 
states. Revco now has 2,100 stores in 
14 states.
Revco emerged independently from 
protection under the bankruptcy code 
in 1992. It had filed for Chapter 11 
protection from creditors in July 1988, 
when it had missed interest payments 
on $800 million of junk bonds used for 
a 1986 leveraged buyout.
If Revco is melded into Rite Aid, the 
Revco name will be eliminated and 
Ohio will have 689 Rite Aid stores, the 
largest number in the company’s pro­
jected 22-state market area.
There would be 4,800 stores in 22 
states plus the District of Columbia, 
but Grass said about 300 stores would 
be eliminated. Grass said it is more 
likely closings will occur in states with 
a large number now of both Revco 
and Rite Aid stores.
In the Pittsburgh area, Revco 
and Rite-Aid often 
compete side by side
— in Squirrel Hill, 
for example, the 
stores are across the 
street from each other. In McKeesport, 
a Revco is a few doors away from a 
Rite-Aid.
The deal even created uncertainty 
for former Olympic gold medalist Mary 
Lou Retton, who is featured in Revco’s 
television ads. Will her role continue?
“We haven’t made any decision about 
that,” Grass said.
S. Korea’s ex-president arrested
SEOUL, South Korea, Dec. 3 (AP)
— Former President Chun Doo-hwan 
was arrested early Sunday after he 
refused to be questioned about his 
role in a brutal 1980 crackdown on a 
pro-democracy uprising.
Chun earlier left the capital for his 
rural hometown after appearing on 
television andaccusing cu rrentPresi- 
dent Kim Young-sam of conducting a 
witch hunt to deflect attention from a 
spreading political scandal.
His decision to ignore a prosecution 
summons had set up a showdown 
with, the government, and prompted 
a new round of public cries for harsh 
action against the generals blamed 
for ordering the “Kwangju Massa­
cre.”
Prosecutors then questioned a sec­
ond former president, Eoh Tae-woo, 
who also has been implicated in the 
1980 crackdown and already is in jail 
after being charged last month with 
corruption.
Choi Kyu-ha — who served as a 
figurehead leader for eight months 
after a Dec. 12,1979, military coup led 
by Chun and Roh — also might be 
questioned.
The prosecutors’ office said it was 
flooded with dozens of angry calls from 
citizens demanding Chun’s immedi­
ate arrest.
Since the scandal involving Roh’s 
$650 million slush fund broke in late 
October, Kim has been trying to dis­
tance himselffrom his military-backed 
predecessors before parliamentary 
elections next April.
But with Chun’s arrest Kim finds 
himselfincreasinglymiredinthesnow- 
balling scandal.
Chun gave written responses to pros­
ecutors’ questions earlier in their in­
vestigation of the 1980 Kwangju mas­
sacre, in which at least 240 people 
were killed and 1,800 injured by offi­
cial count. Dissidents claim the toll 
was much higher.
Donut avalanche results in lawsuit
GREENSBURG, Pa., Dec. 1 (AP) —A 
woman is suing a supermarket because 
a tray of baked goods slid off a display 
and hit her in the head.
Elizabeth Sam of North Huntingdon 
Township said in the suit filed in 
Westmoreland County Court that she 
was shopping at a Giant Eagle store in 
North Huntingdon Township when she 
reached for donuts on the display.
A volley of pastries came down and a 
tray on the display slid forward and hit 
her.
“I don’t .think you should go to a gro­
cery store ... and have something fall on 
your head,” said Sam’s lawyer, Keith 
Hauger.
Sam is seeking $60,000. She said she 
was anguished and embarrassed by 
headaches, back inflammation and cuts 
and bruises on her head.
The injuries make up half of the 
amount in the lawsuit. Sam and her 
husband, Edward, are asking for a sepa­
rate award because they say the inci­
dent caused a rift in their marriage.It’s hard to get to Happy Valley
STATE COLLEGE, Pa., Dec. 1 (AP)— 
Thousands of high school seniors who 
envisioned themselves living in dorms, 
watching football and going to huge par­
ties on Penn State’s main campus are 
being offered admission to commuter 
schools.
“For a student in the top half of the 
class with decent boards who is looking 
for a traditional college setting, it’s dis­
appointing to be asked to go to a branch 
campus,” said Bill Yarwood, dean of stud­
ies at Conestoga High School.
But increased applications to Penn 
State and no increased space have forced 
university officials to raise academic 
standards for entering the State College 
campus. Many students who don’t make 
it are being accepted to one of Penn 
State’s 17 Commonwealth Education 
System campuses.
Most of the branch campuses don’t 
have any student housing. Many stu­
dents can transfer to State College after 
two years at a branch campus, said John 
Romano, vice provost for enrollment.
“The worry students have about ac­
cepting an offer to a commonwealth cam­
pus is born from lack of information,” 
Romano said. “Our task is to tell stu­
dents how they can become part of State 
College, but just not in the fall of 1996.”
Because of the growth at some of the 
branch campuses, Penn State President 
Graham Spanier has launched a reas­
sessment of the system. Some schools 
may be closed or consolidated after the 
survey, Spanier said.
Penn State will accept about 73 per­
cent ofits applicants this year, and about 
35 percent of those accepted will become
Four-Day Forecast
MondayFair skies and 
seasonable temp­
eratures. Highs In 
the mld-40s, evening 
lows In near 30.
TuesdayPartly cloudy with a 
30 percent chance of 
rain by evening. High 
in the upper 40s.
Wednesday
Mostly sunny, with 
highs in the 40s and 
lows in near 30.
Thursday
Partly cloudy; low in 
the upper 20s, high 
in the mld-30s.
Carnegie Almanac
freshmen, Romano said. In the fall of 
1995, however, 38 percent of those ac­
cepted came to Penn State.
The freshman class ballooned to 5,400 
and more than 700 students started the 
year living in study halls converted into 
living spaces. Apartments near campus 
were also scarce.
The school has no plans to increase 
dormitory space, Romano said.
“If space remains the same, obviously 
you have to make more difficult and 
more competitive choices,” he said. 
“Whatever increase we do have we see 
occurring among other campuses.”Two year search for macaw ends
GLENWILLARD, Pa. (AP) — A fam­
ily in suburban Pittsburgh has finally 
decided to end its search for a pet macaw 
more than two years after it got lost in 
the woods.
“It’s not that we want to put it to an 
end,” said Debbie Krauss. “I don’t think 
we will ever do that, because I think that 
hope will always be there.”
Debbie and her husband, Frank, de­
cided this week to stop the lost-and- 
found advertisement they’ve been run­
ning in The Times of Beaver County 
since their bird, Harley, disappeared in 
September 1993.
The Krausses have nine birds, includ- 
ingthree other macaws, which are large, 
harsh-voiced parrots of Central America 
and South America.
Harley was ailing and abused when 
they found him in a pet store. They 
nursed him back to health. They lost 
him during a family camping trip in 
South Beaver Township.
The couple climbed trees, spied 
through binoculars and used taped ma­
caw sounds in their search for Harley. 
They even rented an ultralight airplane 
to search for him.Santa’s secrets revealed in N.C.
RALEIGH, N.C., Dec. 1 (AP) —Santa 
guards his secrets well, but a group of 
engineering students at North Carolina 
State University may have uncovered a 
few, including how his sleigh flies.
“We tried to come up with as plausible 
an explanation as we could and use 
state-of-the-art scientific techniques,” 
Professor Larry Silverberg told The 
Charlotte Observer.
His students discovered that Santa’s 
sleigh is made of a composite fiber cov­
ered with an epoxy resin to make it 
lightweight, strong, durable and cold- 
resistant. It also explains the red glow 
as Santa streaks through the sky.
And getting around the world in one 
night is easy when the fabric of time rips 
open. The students decided that each 
Christmas Eve, the North Pole is the 
site of a tear in time, allowing Santa to 
deliver presents as time stands still.
Children get their wishes because ‘ 
Santa uses a multigrid antenna system 
to pick up electromagnetic signals from 
their brains, which are sentto the sleigh’s' 
onboard systems for processing.
And, no, the sleigh doesn’t carry all, 
those presents. Instead, tiny silicon-chip. 
based machines make the needed gifts, 
at each home. Making reindeer fly j8 j 
tougher, the students found. It takes 
years of selective breeding and bioengi. 
neering to give them the lift.Gingrich plans to lower profile
WASHINGTON, D.C., Dec. 2 (AP)- 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, stungby 
criticism of some recent statements, has 
decided to keep a lower profile for awhile.
Republican lawmakers returning to
the Capitol after Thanksgiving reported 
that longtime supporters were angered 
by some recentinflammatory comments. 
Among them was Gingrich’s comment 
that he stiffened his terms in last month’s, 
partial government shutdown because 
President Clinton had snubbed him 
aboard Air Force One on the trip to 
Israel for the funeral of Prime Minister 
Yitzhak Rabin.
Several Republicans met with 
Gingrich privately about that and other 
utterances, according to officials, who 
spoke on condition of anonymity. He 
acknowledged his errors in a House Re­
publican caucus and has decided to spend 
less time before television cameras, at 
least for the time being.
“Newt had observed that he’d had a 
gaffe and he was going to ease back a.! 
bit,” said Gingrich spokesman Tony 
Blankley.Garnets out; are Tartans next?
SWARTHMORE, Pa., Dec. 2 (AP)- 
It’s a nice color, Garnet. But as a school 
mascot, it isn’t exactly intimidating. In 
fact, just figuring out what a “Garnet” 
looks like has proven to be a challenge.
So officials at Swarthmore College, 
located in Delaware County about 10 
miles west of Philadelphia, are tossing; 
out the deep red hue that has served as 
a mascot of sorts for almost 120 years.
They want a living breathing-type 
mascot. One that will demand respect.
Like “Swarming Earthworms.”
“There’s nothing wrong with the color,” 
said Barbara Ryan, associate vice presi­
dent for external affairs. “But, it’s a color' 
and not... uh, a creature, you could say.”
Two students made the request for a' 
new nickname, Ryan said. Students can 
vote through the end of next week. The’ 
finalists: The Garnet Foxes, The Grif­
fins, The Wild Kangaroos, The Mighty, 
Oaks, The Little Quakers, and The 
Swarming Earthworms. “Earthworms’1 
is an anagram for Swarthmore.
School officials plan to announce the' 
new mascot in early January.
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Dec. 4,1945: 
Post-Gazette editorial cartoonist 
Cy Hungerford was scheduled to 
appear at Carnegie Tech for a 
“chaik-talk.”
“Mr. Hungerford has gained 
national renown for his timely 
drawings depicting the news of 
the day,” reported The Carnegie 
Tartan. “His work on the front 
page of each edition of the Post 
[sic] is looked forward to by thou­
sands in the Pittsburgh district.” 
Hungerford was best known for 
creating the Pa Pitt character for 
the P-G, and was with the daily 
from 1927 well into the 1970s.
The Tartan said that 
Hungerford had received “many 
offers to go elsewhere, but he says, 
‘I’d rather stay in Pittsburgh.’ ” 
“The man must be mad,” read 
an editor’s note.
25 YEARS AGO, December 10, 
1970: “Eighteen through 21-year- 
olds are now eligible to vote in all 
governmental elections,” wrote 
Tartan News Editor Doug 
Campbell.
The voting age was lowered af­
ter Congress passed new voting- 
rights legislation.
Several states were fighting the 
amendment in the U.S. Supreme 
Court, but Pennsylvania Gov. 
Milton Shapp vowed “to do every­
thing in my power to secure a 
constitutional amendment that 
will permit Pennsylvania to lower 
the voting age in our state.”
When the U.S. Supreme Court 
struck down the Congressional 
act as unconstitutional, the right 
was guaranteed by the twenty- 
sixth amendment.
10 YEARS AGO, November 
26, 1985: C-MU celebrated An­
drew Carnegie’s ___________
150th birthday, but ____
The Tartan asked 
students to consider 
both sides of his per­
sonality, and the 
school that bears his 
name.
“Carnegie always 
said that he wanted 
to be a well-rounded 
person,” argued the NO. 1 
editorial. “Yet when VOL. 71 
he founded a school, 
it was strictly a tech- 
nical school.
Mellon ... is trying very hard to 
be a university in the mold of 
Harvard, Yale, and other schools 
known [for] liberal arts ... most 
will agree that the focus here is 
still, as it was 85 years ago, on the 
technical aspects.
“Good or bad, we are not, for 
the most part, turning out intel­
lectuals — people who can con­
verse with anyone on a variety of 
subjects.
“Education, not regurgitation, 
is the hopeful goal of the univer­
sity. It is unfortunate some pro­
fessors do not understand this.”
FIVE YEARS AGO, Dec. 3, 
1990: The College of Fine Arts 
Building was officially renamed 
Hombostel Hall, in honor of the 
University’s architect and first 
dean of Fine Arts.
Some people doubted that the 
change would stick. “No matter 
what they rename it, people will 
continue to call it CFA,” said one 
senior music major.
Do you have any classes in 
Hornbostel Hall? Didn’t think so.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY/ SEPTEMBER 16, 1971
“Though Carnegie- The Tartan will celebrate Its 90th anniversary in 1996. Here’s the paper’s 1971

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,HN
(NOVATION, from page 1
¿rough September of next year.
Repairs begin on two landmarksDeck the halls...
amateur radio club, whose hams 
talk to short-wave operators all
Scaffolding has been erected over the world, “will be off the air 
en Hamerschlag starting at the for a year.” 
fourth floor, and plastic will soon W3VC has been meeting with 
juver the tower and the orange contractors every two weeks, and 
yea lighting will be turned off. Blackwell said they are "helpful 
Occupants of the fourth floor of about telling us when they’re 
(jamerschlag will feel the effects doing things so we can plan 
jftlie restoration. Located on that around them.” 
joor is the ECE graduate student This time, all the brick on the
ounge and W3VC, the
“We are being careful not to 
cross paths,” Laufer said. Most of 
the work is strictly on the exterior 
of the tower, and there will only 
be intermittent use of a crane.
At Margaret Morrison, the 
biggest concern in the Children’s 
School, whose playground is 
directly below the balustrade. 
Laufer said that workers will 
make sure that people on the
Carnegie Tech Radio 
31ub.
The Radio Club has 
hree large antennas 
the bottom of the 
ower and four small 
nes on the top. As 
vork progresses on 
he lower part of the 
tower, the club has 
(removed their lower 
antennas, and in the
spring will put them back up. top half of the tower will be 
Then club members will take repointed. If necessary, some of 
down the top antennas as the ornamentation will be
"Physical Plant has been very responsive 
...but we don't want to lose the use of the 
playground. ”
— Sharon Carver; 
Director,; Children’s School
instruction moves upwards. 
Station Manager Michael
replaced with new material. 
Complicating the restoration is
Blackwell said the biggest construction of Roberts Hall, 
Iravvback will be that the being built behind Hamerschlag.
ground below are kept safe.
There’s already construction at 
Margaret Morrison for the 
Intelligent Workplace project, 
and the staff of the Children’s 
School is concerned about the 
safety of the children. The
deterioration of the balustrade 
has worried the school’s staff.
“Sometimes big chunks have 
fallen,” said Jean Veltri, assistant 
director of the Children’s School. 
“We’ve had problems since the 
summer with falling debris.”
Veltri said that while the 
contractors working on the 
Intelligent Workplace have been 
“very concerned about the 
children and being safe,” 
accidents have happened. A 
bucket of water as well as other 
debris has fallen off the roof of 
the building when children were 
in the playground below.
“Physical Plant has been very 
responsive when we complain,” 
said Children’s School director 
Sharon Carver, “but we don’t 
want to lose the use of the 
playground.” Veltri and Carver 
were to meet Monday with Laufer 
to discuss the restoration.
“Margaret Morrison will be 
completed within a month,” said 
Laufer. “It’s a project with a 
smaller scale and scope and we 
want to reduce the risk to the 
Children’s School.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
It’s beginning to look a lot like the holidays have arrived at some 
offices, like at the Campus Police station in the Student Center. 
Shown are officers Matt Godlewski and Elmer Keck.
CMU student wants Pittsburgh to go for the gold in 2012
LYMPICS, from page 1
fisitors’ Bureau.
“You just don’t have the space [in 
Pittsburgh],” said Post-Gazette sports 
columnist Gene Collier. “The city’s too 
mall. You could probably get everybody 
lere, but once you did, I don’t know what 
foil’d do with them. It would take a 
miversity like Carnegie Mellon just to 
coordinate the computer systems needed
o stage the Olympics. It’s a mammoth 
hing.”
Dennis McCoy of the Convention and 
Visitors’ Bureau said that “Pittsburgh 
vould be a great location to have an 
Olympic event, because we’re centrally 
ocated.
“It would be a wonderful event to host, 
ivery prestigious event, a great event 
for the city and for Allegheny County,” 
le said. “But it would be a very 
substantial undertaking that would 
equire a great financial commitment.” 
Monaco claims that corporate 
iponsorship could fund the Games 
vithout ever touching a taxpayer dollar, 
furthermore, he said that while the
1996 Games in Atlanta will cost at least
11.61 billion in public and private money, 
he projected economic return for the 
irea is $6 billion. “You can’t get that 
and of return for anything else,” he 
¡aid.
But even Monaco admits that a profit 
sn’t a sure thing. Montreal is still paying 
or expenses from the 1976 Games. 
Could Pittsburgh — which one urban 
ilanner said is on the threshold of 
irreversible economic decline” — ever 
•ull off an Olympic bid?
“Atlanta’s got a lot more boosterism, 
t’s a much bigger city, and it’s more of a 
egional capital,” said Modoono. “It was 
te capital of the new south. Pittsburgh’s 
oteven the capital of Pennsylvania, for 
tying out loud.”
Monaco disputes that. “Pittsburgh has 
a lot of the same qualities that Atlanta 
has, and a lot of the same types of 
facilities that Atlanta does,” saidMonaco, 
who’s been developing his proposal for 
over a year and a half.
The proposal lists 44 current or 
projected future Olympic sports, the 
estimated crowd that would attend, and 
what type of facility would be necessary 
to host them. It recommends the use of 
many current arenas, like Three Rivers 
Stadium, the A. J. Palumbo Center, and 
Pitt Stadium, as well as construction of 
venues like a velodrome (for cycling 
competition) and a racquet complex.
“What are you going to use for 
swimming?” asked Modoono. “Trees Hall 
[at the University of Pittsburgh]? [If you 
build a venue] how many times are you 
ever going to have swimming events m 
Pittsburgh? Even Pitt Stadium, which 
was built during the ’20s when things 
were built on a bigger scale, it’s not that 
big by Olympic standards.”
Modoono said that Atlanta had a 
variety of organizations behind that city’s 
Olympic construction boom — Georgia 
Tech is building new athletic facilities, 
the Falcons will use the Georgia Dome 
after the Games are over, and the Atlanta 
Braves are building a new stadium.
In addition, media mogul Ted Turner
— owner of Turner Broadcasting, CNN, 
and the Braves — is supporting the 
event.
“I can pretty much say that the venues 
that would be required to host [the 
games] would be far more serious than 
the ones we have,” said McCoy of the 
convention bureau. He said a Pittsburgh 
bid would be an “extremely difficult sell” 
to the U.S. Olympic Committee.
In fact, the city tried to get the much 
smaller Goodwill Games and wasn’t 
successful. “Other cities had bigger,
better venues,” said McCoy.
McCoy said that the Bureau is trying 
to attract events like the NHL All-Star 
Game, the NFL draft, and major NCAA 
events. “We do have the facilities that 
would accommodate those or similar 
events,” he said.
But Monaco claimed that many of the 
city’s venues are in need of replacement 
or renovation anyway. For example, the 
University of Pittsburgh has wanted to 
renovate Pitt Stadium for several years. 
Monaco calls for adding a roof to the 
70,000+ seat facility. And he envisions 
tearing down Allegheny Center Mall on 
the city’s North Side for the Olympic 
Village.
“There is going'to have to be some 
sacrifice and some accommodation by 
both sides,” Monaco admitted. “I realize 
that it’s going to, at limes, inconvenience 
some people or corporations.”
“The inconvenience only lasts about 
21 days, but so does the high,” said 
Modoono. “You have to build a lot of 
things that you’ll never use again. So 
much of it is really wasted.”
“I think we should keep our.focus on, 
maybe, getting an NBA team,” said the 
Post-Gazette's Collier.
“Bringing an NBA team here would be 
great. Hosting more NCAA events is 
fine,” said Monaco. “But would you rather 
try to get the city 
going slowly, step- 
by-step, plodding 
along aimlessly, or 
take an extended 
step?”
“I wish I could say 
that he’s on the 
right track, but it’s 
really tough to say 
that given the 
knowledge of the 
existing facilities,”
said McCoy of the convention bureau. 
He said that the city recently tried to 
host a major U.S. Track and Field event, 
but lost to another city with superior 
athletic facilities.
“Not every city would be qualified to 
host such a prestigious event [as the 
Summer Games],” he said.
Modoono said that he doubts the city 
would even want to host the Olympics. 
“You gotta care about some of these 
events.... There are a lot more events at 
a Summer Olympics than people realize. 
... People think it’s just track and field, 
swimming, and basketball,” he said. 
“Pittsburgh’s waning support for the 
marathon is sort of the indicative of the 
city’s support for Olympic style events.”
“Being a native Pittsburgher myself, 
my first thought is "Yeah, why not?”’ said 
McCoy, citing the city’s interest in 
professional 
and colleg­
iate sports.
...Realistic­
ally speak­
ing, I don’t 
know.”
Monaco 
admitted 
that when 
he forms a 
group, its
most important role will be community 
relations. “You can’t thrust this onto the 
people of Pittsburgh if they don’t really 
want it,” he said. “Half the luck I’m going 
to need is just to be taken seriously. This 
is not a joke. This isn’t a dream.”
He said that he plans on staying in 
Pittsburgh after he completes his! 
education, and that he wants to start a‘. 
business here.
“It’s my adopted home town,” said' 
Monaco, a native of Schenectady, N.Y. “I 
don’t know why, but I really like this 
area.
“I think it’s within the realm of 
possibility that I can pull this off,” he 
said. “I have thought to myself that if I~ 
can pull this off, I can look back on my" 
life ... and say, I’ve left something, 
significant behind for myself, for the 
world, and for the community.”
When you 
grow up.
Baum Vivant 682-2620
Y$6 EUfl4/i
On January 1st 1996 Eurail rates go up! Buy your pass in December 
1995 and you'll still be able to start using it before July 1,1996! 
ALL PASSES ISSUED ON THE SPOT!1
Europass Youth* Eurail Youthpass*5 days, 2 months, 4 countries $198 15 days, 17 countries $398 11 days, 2 months, 5 countries $366 1 month, 17 countries $578 Eurail Youth Flexipass* 2 months, 17 countries$768 
5 days, 2 months, 17 countries $255 10 days, 2 months, 17 countries $398
* Youth fares are available only for passengers under age 26 on their 
first date of travel.*Youth fares are available for 2nd Class travel only.
FREE "Student Travels” MAGAZINE!Council fcifflSJI
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213j
683-1881
Facul tySenu hs
CMUstu
de
a?
A
ByJ AJSONT
THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF
JERUSALEM 
TEL AVIV
UNIVERSITY
BAR-ILAN
UNIVERSITY
BEN-GURION
UNIVERSITY
mHAIFA
UNIVERSITY
Programs for undergraduate and graduate students:
ONE YEAR PROGRAMS • SEMESTER PROGRAMS SUMMER COURSES
COURSES TAUGHT IN ENGLISH
FINANCIAL AID AVAILABLE
For more information please call: 
Hebrew University 1-800-404-8622
Tel Aviv University 1-800-665-9828
Bar-Ilan University 1-212-337-1286
Ben-Gurion University 1-800-962-2248 
Haifa University 1-800-388-2134
AAA APPROVED — ASE CERTIFIED 
VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER ACCEPTED
•Since 1959*
BASTONE AUTO SERVICE
235 1/2 CARRON ST.
PITTSBURGH, PA 15206 
(412) 362-3548 
(412) 361-3554
Will you be driving 
home for the holidays?
Make sure your car is ready to go too. 
Come to Bastone Auto Service for all 
of your automotive servicing needs.
Approved 
Auto Repair
The Imperial Cut... is 
diamond cut to 
proper proportions 
that gives you all the 
beauty and the visual 
size that you pay for 
and MUCH MORE.
You get a certificate as
color grade and quality 
according to GIA specifications. 
Dealing direct with a diamond
Compare the difference 
of an Imperial Cut diamond 
to other average cuts
house established a 
half century ago gets 
you the best price 
value in the “Burgh”. 
Call for the DeBeers 
booklet “How to Buy 
Diamonds You’ll Be 
Proud to Give” FREE
IN THE MAIL to aid you in 
making the most intelligent 
diamond selection.
IMPERIAL JEWELRY GO.
DIAMONDS • FINE JEWELRY • ESTATES 
8315 FORBES AVE. SUITE 123 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15217* 521-8930

---------------------------------------------------

Off-campus interviews
Capture imagination
Encoders, decoders, and codecs. Full-motion video and true-color images for multimedia computers, CD-based consumer electronics, and digital 
television. Anything that's being done in this fast-moving field is being done with technology from C-Cube Microsystems, Inc.
An early leader in the field, we've not only captured the imagination of the world, we also won an Emmy last September for our "Outstanding 
Achievement in Engineering Development for the television industry." Imagine how much you could do, in one of these areas at C-Cube.
All positions require a BS/MS in EE/CS, and the following skills:
Design Engineers Architecture
VLSI Design, Verflog behavior and gate modeling, logic design and syn- Register transfer level (RTL) behavioral modeling, memory hierarchy 
thesis, circuit design and SPICE simulation, layout and post-layout verifi- tradeoffs, validation suites, programming in C.
AinnKithm Qnfturara cnn<na»r System Software/HardwareMiyurimm OUI I Device drivers, Windows user interfaces, programming tool construction:
Prototyping in C under UNIX, porting and performance tuning to video assembler, linkers, compilers, debuggers.
DSPs, real-time multitasking, error analysis.
C-Cube will be conducting off-campus interviews in your area, 
the week of December 11th. We will be pre-screening candidates, 
so if you are interested, please FAX your resume to C-Cube at:(408)944-8167.
C-Cube is headquartered in the heart of the Silicon Valley, California. We'te minutes from San Jose. Less than an hour 
from San Francisco. And just a little farther from the Santa Cruz mountains and beaches. And 
in addition to growth, technology and scenery, C-Cube offers an excellent compensation 
plan, including stock options, flexible spending accounts, and comprehensive insurance 
benefits. For more information about our College Recruitment program, please call 
(408) 944-6321. We are an Equal 
Opportunity Employer.C-Cube 
Microsystems

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,HH
Harassment policy amended to clarify intent, purpose
SENATE, from page 1
University Policy of Free Speech and 
Assembly permits speech that would 
otherwise be considered as 
intimidating,” he said.
Staff Council chair Scott Safier said 
that his group would have “no 
objection” to the change.
“I think it’s an attempt to be explicit 
about what [Faculty Senate has] 
intended all along,” he said.
Safier said that in his conversations 
with Greater Pittsburgh ACLU 
director Vic Walczak, Walczak was 
concerned primarily with how the 
policy mightaffect students. Efforts to 
reach Walczak before presstime were 
unsuccessful.
“I spoke with Vic Walczak today, 
and I explained to him that I believe 
this to be a workplace policy,” said 
Safier. “He said that he has no 
objections to this as a workplace 
policy.”
Several senators pointed out that 
sexual harassment by students is 
covered in the Student Handbook. 
Students can be disciplined by the 
Residence Life Office, the Student 
Affairs Office, and through the 
University Disciplinary Committee.
Schaffer said that in the future, his 
committee would like to replace what 
he called the “notorious little green
pamphlet” — the booklet Sexual 
Harassment: A Community Concern, 
published last year by Human 
Resources and Student Affairs.
"There is a consensus on the 
committee that the little green 
pamphlet ought to be scrapped,” he 
said. “That document is not an official 
policy of the University.”
University Ombudsman and 
Director of Equal Opportunity 
Programs Everett Tademy said that 
the new document shouldn’t be a strict 
set of guidelines. “It’s not a recipe. It’s 
not a math problem,” said Tademy. 
“It’s an issue that’s contextual.” 
Schaffer said that a revised 
document — perhaps incorporating 
some recent U.S. Supreme Court 
definitions of sexual harassment — 
would be only an informative brochure.
“It’s not our intent to strictly define 
[harassment],” he said.
However, Senate chair Seidenfeld 
suggested that the new policy “rivals 
the most elaborate process we have on 
the books,” the process by which faculty 
members are removed for academic 
misconduct.
“I wonder if there’s any hope for 
simplifying the process?” he asked.
Discussion of the proposed policy 
was postponed until Faculty Senate 
meets again on Jan. 17.
To ease email system crunch...
AMS phase-out to begin next year
CYRUS, from page 1
long time ... [and] enable users to have 
access to killer mail clients with nifty 
features on as wide a range of OS’s 
[operating systems] as possible.”
However, users will have to learn how 
to use new mail readers since EzMail 
and MacMail — which were developed 
exclusively by and for CMU—only work 
on the old system. While the switch will 
be mandatory, a planned transition pe­
riod from July 1996 to December 1997 
will enable users to switch at their con­
venience.
“One might say the best thing about 
the new system for most people is that it 
will allow us to replace EzMail and 
MacMail II,” he said.
It will also support MIME (Multi-pur- 
pose Internet Mail Extensions) which 
will allow for use of characters other 
than ASCII, enriched text (things like 
bold text and underlining), images, 
sounds, and FTPable (File Transfer Pro­
tocol) file pointers.
Other new features include the ability 
to file messages from other users accord­
ing to their email address, and a vaca­
tion program that allows one to set up a 
message that is automatically mailed to 
people when the recipient is away.
Some of these new features, however, 
will not appear in the system’s first
public incarnation this July.
“We’ve got a situation where the mail 
system is really creaking under the load 
and we’ve got this new system that we’ve 
got to get out,” said Myers. “Trying to 
make sure that we get the new system 
out in time is taking up most of my 
concentration now.
“Our current focus right now is getting 
the newmail system deployed and scaled 
up to where it can actually serve as 
functional replacement for the old mail 
system,” he said. “So there aren’t going 
to be a lot of new whizzy features.
And while it has many advantages, 
the new mail system will lack some 
features present in the old one.
For example, gone will be voting, auto­
matic bulletin board subscription re­
quests, as well as fuzzy matching of 
names prior to mail delivery. “Once we 
actually get it in place, then we can start 
thinking about doing more interesting 
things like more advanced filing,” Myers 
said.
“AMS has a lot of features,” he added. 
“We are spending a lot of effort right 
know trying to get the new mail system 
up to the point where it is close enough 
to providing the set features that AMS 
does that we can actually give them to 
the users and not have them be upset.”
The switch to the system from the old
one should be relatively simple, accord­
ing to Myers and Wall. Software that 
seamlessly converts old mail and bulle­
tin boards from AMS to the Cyrus sys­
tem is under development.
“One of the major lessons we learned 
from AMS was to stay out of the busi­
ness of making our own mail readers,” 
said Wall. “We just can’t keep up with 
the times now as well as a motivated 
software company that does nothing but 
mail.”
As a result, code being developed for 
the project is being given away so that 
other companies will write mail readers. 
One company working closely with CMU 
is ESYS, a Canadian company that is 
making Simeon, a cross platform client 
for the mail server.
CMU has a site license for this pro­
gram so members of the CMU commu­
nity will be able to obtain it for free.
Users will be free to choose from many 
other popular mail readers. “We’ll pro­
vide formal support for the [mail read­
ers] which are in majority use on cam­
pus,” said Wall.
Currently, the system is being tested 
by a limited number of users, although 
there are plans to open up the system to 
anyone in the CMU community who 
wants to participate in the testing in the 
spring.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In “The Residents of Mudge 2C” [In the Spotlight, 11/20], a quote was 
incorrectly attributed. Mike Subelsky said “Aaron inspires me,” while Shan 
Ablak said, “Kozbelt is the guy we all respect...the smartest one on the floor.”
The editorial “Faculty evaluations need follow-through” [11/20] implied that 
an unnamed CS professor hadreceived consistently low evaluations. Associate 
Dean Allan Fisher told The Tartan that according to his review of the Faculty- 
Course Evaluations, no CS faculty member fits that description.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Clinton gives pep talk to American soldiers
CLINTON, from page 1
safe as it can be,” Clinton told the crowd 
atthe BaumholderU.S. Army base, home 
to the 1st Armored Division.
Anxious soldiers, their spouses and 
children stood huddled in the cold as 
Clinton — standing in front of a huge 
banner bearing the division’s “Old 
Ironsides” nickname —justified his 
plans to risk American lives for a war in 
Europe. Gen. William Nash, commander 
of the 1st Armored Division opened the 
ceremony by declaring, “We are pre­
pared to do our duty.”
Clinton’s address was amix of pep talk 
and presidential reassurances that the
soldiers could defend themselves.
Drawing whoops of assent from the 
soldiers, Clinton told them, “There is no 
doubt in my mind this task force is ready 
to roll.
“It is in our nation’s interest and con­
sistent with our values to see that this 
peace endures,” Clinton said. “We are 
counting on you ... to get that job done.”
Asked later what it was like to look 
into the faces of soldiers being placed in 
danger, Clinton said: “I wanted to come 
here and look into their faces and into 
the faces of their wives, husbands and 
children because I think what they are 
doing is a very noble thing.”
A handful of protesters greeted the 
president on arrival at NATO’s Ramstein 
Airbase. Among them was a woman hold­
ing a baby in one hand a sign in the other 
reading: “Draft Dodger Go Home.”
A skeptical Congress seemed certain 
to go along with Clinton’s plans, which 
would take effect after the warring par­
ties in the former Yugoslav republic sign 
a treaty on Dec. 14 in Paris. In particu­
lar, the endorsements of Senate Major­
ity Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., and Sen. 
John McCain, R-Ariz., “will help im­
measurably... to build the kind of bipar­
tisan support that we need to make this 
an American effort,” the president said.
Now «,750
HOT.
Bum, baby, burn —disco inferno.
MAC.
Not the burger, pal—the killer computer.
DEALS.
Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey.
ltwOedmcU -suxmugR ACkPho
8MB RAW1GB hard drive, 
PowerPC'603processor, CD-ROM drive, 
IS"color monitor, keyboard, mouse and 
all the software you're likely lo need.
Now $1,833
-mvsu ltwOedmcUD Ik’’VF’ vVho
8MB RAM/700MB hard drive, 
PowerPC' 601 processor, CD-ROM drive,
15'color monitor, keyboard and mouse.
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER.Unfortunately, they won’t stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a 
Being a student is hard. So we’ve made buying a Macintosh” easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy it will be with a Macintosh. The com- i * 
prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices, puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be your best! i\pUlC w.
For more information visit the
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
Product prices, produci availability and sales taxes may vary. Offer eipires January 15,1996. ©1995Apple Computer, Inc All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and “lie power to be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc CardSbop Plus is a registered trademark ofMhtdscape. 
All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. 7b learn more (US. only), call 800-600-7808 or TTY800-155-0601.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University4 December 1995
‘No fun’ myth poisons 
quality of student life
Students at CMU encourage 
an almost unrelenting negativ­
ity: they pass the time bellyach­
ing about their exams, assign­
ments, lacking social life, and 
general disappointment at this 
University. While many of us are 
extremely busy and our time is 
at a premium, complaining about 
conditions — particularly the 
lenormous amount of work we 
perceive ourselves as having — 
^s'not productive. In most cases, 
time spent complaining is sim­
ply time lost; minutes that could 
¡have been used attacking their 
huge workload.
This attitude is infused into 
the Carnegie Mellon freshmen 
from day one. By the end of their 
first semester at CMU, or even 
by mid-term, the typical student 
has embraced the myth that our 
University is an institution 
where only hard work and pres­
sure have a place; that the CMU 
community is focused solely on 
academic endeavor and leaves 
social interaction and growth by 
the wayside. However, this con­
dition must be seen for what it is: 
a myth.
The conception that CMU is an 
academic sweatshop is resultant 
;o£ students’ attitudes, not the 
‘terrible’ University. It is a lens 
through which we view our lives 
at CMU, and the quality of life 
that Student Affairs has been 
trying to improve is doomed to 
^remain as is until these myths 
are dispelled.
The counselors, during the 
freshman orientation program, 
do all they can to nurture a more 
positive attitude in incoming stu-
CMU-TV could enrich 
life, unify colleges
: We think Carnegie Mellon 
could benefit from the creation of 
a student television station: 
CMU-TV. There are many ben­
efits a student-run television sta­
tion could offer to the college 
community, including better cov­
erage of campus events, another 
fun student activity, and cohe­
siveness among departments 
such as drama, design, English 
;ahd IM.
Many other schools, both large 
^and small, have their own televi­
sion stations. Schools utilize their 
stations for many of the reasons 
listed above. A new media for 
CMU would not be difficult to 
| establish. Funds could come from 
Carnegie Mellon’s enormous en­
dowment. Funding from your 
student activities fee would not 
be necessary. The station could 
even raise some of its own funds 
through various money-raising 
events. Equipment might be 
bought or rented from WQED. 
The ample space in the base­
ment of the new University Cen­
ter would be the perfect site for 
CMU-TV. The station might also 
work closely with such organiza­
tions as Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
and WQED-TV. Out of this 
would come internships and a 
stepping stone to larger media 
companies.
CMU-TV could help unite the 
University as a whole by broad-
m 6°, Yet AH°TUEK cmu 
ÇTOPEHT FALLS VKc.Y
¦I6 .THE Te^Rl&LE. EPlPEMIC 
OF APATHY...
md i prnoox
¿A(CT°oH invwwCT
)IZ'3'Ì5
dents before and throughout 
their first year. However, this 
small group of volunteers is up 
against a very strong, wide­
spread, and well-established 
negativity — their efforts are 
typically quelled soon after the 
semester begins when upper­
classmen rehash the myth that 
CMU is an oppressive, no thrills 
institution. This same group of­
fers the Winter Orientation pro­
gram as a “re-injection” of posi­
tive energy. However, by this 
time, many freshman have al­
ready adopted the myth, and 
have become cynical about the 
validity of such programs as Ori­
entation.
The myth compounds itself 
with the tendency of almost all 
students to procrastinate. While 
it is true that the standard 
Carnegie Mellon student’s 
workloadis fairly large, students 
can save themselves much un­
due stress by planning class 
work, projects, exams, and ac­
tivities well in advance. By fol­
lowing through with these plans 
they can be proactive in avoiding 
all-nighters and periods of ex­
treme work. They should be able 
to successfully combine activi­
ties and academia within their 
college experience.
But its more than a lesson in 
time management that is needed 
to overcome this problem ¦— stu­
dents must look to themselves to 
change the attitude on this cam­
pus. Only students can rewrite 
the myth, and without student 
dedication to this end, student 
life at CMU will continue to suf­
fer. Upperclassmen take note!
Letters to the Editor
i SE3
rn lo the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
casting announcements, sched­
ules, and other upcoming cam­
pus events — everything from 
sports tournaments to orchestra 
recitals. This semester, an orga­
nization was formed to help coor­
dinate the programming of cam­
pus happenings — to help get 
the word out about all the events 
student organizations are spon­
soring. The T. V. station would be 
a great place to tune into to hear 
about, and in some cases, watch 
all of these important events.
Review exhibits 
unneeded bias
Editor:
I was less disap­
pointed with Bradley 
W. Zimmerman’s 
scathing review of the 
Carnegie Interna­
tional than I was with 
the International, still 
something about his article is not quite 
satisfying, either. It is precisely because 
of this that I wish to first remove the 
certain stigma of “free food night” from 
my own discussion because it has even 
less to do with the art than playing games 
with the guards, which I will also exclude 
from this discussion.
Certainly there was a lack of original­
ity and inventiveness at the Interna­
tional, which does, after all, purport to be 
a survey of contemporary art. But equally 
as certain is that no piece there should be 
faulted solely on this basis.
Picking on one of Zimmerman’s ex­
amples, the guards, I think, are not to be 
faulted because we are not allowed to 
clamber about on Therrian’s piece. Rather 
we might consider the question “Why is 
this piece here, in a museum, where we 
cannot climb on it, instead of on a play­
ground?” Perhaps this piece is cleverly 
orchestrated to reduce the view to the 
status of my cats, who, too, are not al­
lowed to climb on the table, although 
they may touch it.
In regards to the “package furniture,” 
we might turn our attention to the fact 
that there were only two or three pack­
ages which could have contained any 
recognizable furniture ( or corpses), and 
the fact that not one of the pieces was 
named. Thus we are left standing in a 
misshapen room full of ambiguous crates. 
Why are we left in that room with those 
things?
Mr. Hill’s piece was quite unusual. An 
intricate use of technology, installation, 
and people does leave one deaf, hurt, and 
possibly embarrassed, but again, what is 
the message ? This is the mantra I found 
myself adopting.
I, like Zimmerman, enjoy a piece that 
creates some reaction. This I take to be a 
hit or miss proposition. Some do, some do 
not, I can only place half the blame on the 
artists whose work “fails.” But more im­
portantly, I would like to know why this 
is a criterion at all. Or anything, for that 
matter. Zimmerman remarks that the 
piece by Rikrit is a questionable inclu­
sion in the International on the basis 
that he fails to see the meaning and that 
it has been shown before on several occa­
sions. I, too, wondered about the mean­
ing of free curry for all those interested, 
but I wondered these things about every 
piece in the exhibition and tried not to 
fault them solely on these criteria.
Originally, retro-avoidance, reaction 
generation, message conveyance, “ex­
pression”: why are these privileged crite­
ria of art? I thought that the one lesson 
learned by all those who take art seri­
ously — not just for the free food — is to 
place bounds on art is impossible. As soon 
as a definition of art is proclaimed it is 
immediately in need of redrafting be­
cause someone, be it Manet, Kandinsky, 
Duchamp, or Zimmerman himself, has 
gone off and produced something that is 
art but does not fit the definition. This 
creates some problems, of course, but in 
looking at the International, I would like 
to think that each piece has its own fail­
ings, and a systematic appeal to one set of 
criteria will not delimit the “good” from 
the “bad.” Instead I search for some reac­
tion other than frustration, and hope to 
glean as much as I might about contem­
porary art from that.
Win Wood
Masters Student
Philosophy
Sex harassment 
iaws assessed
Letter to 
the Editor
! SB3letter« to the Editor The T*rtanStudent Center Room I
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
CMU says it is just 
applying the federal 
government’s defini­
tion of sexual harass­
ment. This is at best 
wrong. At worst, it is a 
lie.
According to the federal courts, the 
definitions of the Equal Employment Op­
portunities Commission have no place 
being applied to students. Here is part of 
the UWM Post v. U. of Wisconsin federal 
court decision, in which the U. of 
Wisconsin’s speech code was thrown out 
as being an unconstitutional vague and 
broad restriction on student speech:
“(3)Parallel to Title VIILaw:The Board 
of Regents argues that this Court should 
find the UW Rule constitutional because 
its prohibition of discriminatory speech 
which creates a hostile environment has 
parallels in the employment setting. The 
Board notes that, under Title VII, an 
employer has a duty to take appropriate 
corrective action when it learns of perva­
sive illegal harassment. See Meritor Sav­
ings Bank v. Vinson. The Board correctly 
states Title VII law. However, its argu­
ment regarding Title VII law has at least 
three difficulties. First, Title VII ad­
dresses employment, not educational, set­
tings. Second, even if Title VII governed 
educational settings, the Meritor holding 
would not apply to this case. The Meritor 
Court held that courts should look to 
agency principles when determining 
whether an employer is to be held liable 
for its employee’s actions. Since employ­
ees may act as their employer’s agents, 
agency law may hold an employer liable 
for its employees actions. In contrast, 
agency theory would generally not hold a 
school liable for its students’ actions since 
students normally are not agents of the 
school. Finally, even if the legal duties set 
forth in Meritor applied to this case, they
would not make the UW Rule constitu- 
tional. Since Title VII is only a statute 
it cannot supersede the requirements of 
the First Amendment.”
As a private institution, CMU is le. 
gaily free to violate the standards set by 
the Constitution and academic freedom. 
It should not, however, try to justify such 
violations with misleading references to 
government rules.
Carl Kadie
Co-archivist of the Computers and
Academic Freedom Web Site
Lack of response 
upsets reader
Editor:
I would like to com­
pliment this year’s 
editorial staff of the 
Tartan. This year 
there was a timely 
mix of local, regional, 
and national news. Op-ed pieces are 
rightly chosen to provoke discussion. Yet, 
like columnists Jon Orris and James 
Stepanek, I too wonder if the former’s 
amusing attacks on current environmen­
tal policy or the latter’s attempt to get the; 
gall of supporters of affirmative actioni 
and welfare will continue to go fairly] 
unnoticed.
By reading Stepanek’s latest (“Affir­
mative Action good in spirit, poor in actu-! 
ality, says columnist,”11/20/95), which 
ranges from sarcasm that borders on the 
insulting to fantasy, one is led to believe 
that, among other things, he has likely: 
not experienced racial or gender discrimi­
nation.
Indeed, if anyone remembers how the 
University of California Regents stoodon 
South Africa, apartheid, and U.C. dives­
titure, finding a black man among them 
who decries affirmative action, whom 
Stepanchek cited, is no great feat.
What is troubling is that it doesn't 
seem to matter at CMU if, by his writ­
ings, Stepanek is mistaken for a Newt 
Gingrich intern spending Congressional: 
recess undercover as a graduate student, 
Hermstein and Murray’s publicist, chief 
political strategist for Pat Buchanan, or 
having won First Place at the annus 
Jesse Helms speechwriter convention.
Indeed, replace “blue-skinned” with 
“black” in his article and you’ll have a 
sure winner at this year’s Alfonse D’Amato 
Celebrity Roast. But, is it really the case 
that on this campus someone who would 
bear such a label should suffer no contro­
versy? Not even a bit of embarrassment?
By the dearth of letters to the editors, 
neither faculty, staff nor student body 
seem to care if reactionary views are 
being spouted and unchallenged in the 
pages of the newspaper.
Well, let us continue to cultivate our 
gardens.
Tse-Sung Wu 
EPP/CEE
Minorities rise without gov’t moniescert or theater production that 
you didn’t have time to go to or 
had a time conflict with. There 
could even be live coverage of 
football, basketball — even Mid­
way activities at Carnival. Inno-
James Stepanek
As I mentioned 
before, I was going 
to cover Affirmative 
Action in a couple of 
columns. I did this, 
butindoingsol can’t
,. j , j , ii say I addressed every relevant point,vative non-drama students could T il ui j ui, I d say I pretty thoroughly covered my problems with thestar m the programs they ve ai- pr0graiTlj an(j explained why it should not exist. However, 
ways dreamed of running. this does not cover everything.
For example, design students Some might point out how I glossed over the issue of 
could work with marketing stu- racism Ple a ^ affirmative action, which many people.would 
dents to create commercials. It P^ceive as central to the issue- rm s to address that
could provide training foi stu- Racism js an evi^ no one can dispute that. It exists, no one 
dents in these areas as well. Sev- can dispute that.
eral students already work at It is such a huge problem that a majority of society’s 
WQED for the purpose of gain- troubles can be blamed on it as many minority leaders would 
ing experience. ° have you believe? Not likely.f ^.TT i S The leaders of the minority communities, or at least theAs CMU expands its facilities onfis the pregs loye tQ )avish ^ attention! continue to lay
with various new buildings, the blame for every ill which befalls their community on racism. 
University must consider the They say that poor education, high crime, and unimpressive 
value of a student-run television economic performance is all due to racism.
station. It is a logical addition to ENAT always la?the blame at another doorstep, and never ... j. accept any of it themselves,our exis mg me a groups. Even when a leader emerges who espouses personal re­
sponsibility, like Farrakhan, he clouds the self reliance message 
in a fog of excuses based on racism and promotes racism himselfj
These leaders never accept that some of the problems of the: 
communities come from within those communities. The pi 
sion of illegitimate children, the disdain for education achieve­
ment, and a general frowning upon the basics of a free market 
system do far more to drag a group down than any external, 
forces.
Welfare is one of the big reasons for the problems, and yet the: 
people who are most hurt by it are the ones who most support it-
You might say I have myopia in my allegation that one can 
succeed in spite of a racist society. I could point to a whole sle"' 
of ethnic groups which managed to succeed and find a place hu 
society. Italians, Irish, Poles, Czechs (that’s my bunch), and, 
other Eastern Europeans were dumped on when they arrived as 
immigrants.
Of course you’re going to say “That’s different, they’re all 
white”.
Well, look at Asians.
They are a small ethnic minority in the US. They have 
history of being treated abominably in this country. Chinese 
workers were brought in during the second half of the 1800s to 
build the railroads and were treated like dirt.
They were paid minuscule wages, died in droves, and were 
even denied the chance to apply for citizenship: yet they su^, 
ceeded. Japanese in California were denied the rights to citizen*
Please see MINORITIES, P

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,HI
Con: Animal rights exaggerated by activists
JonOms
One of the sillier environmen­
tal claims is that the meat indus­
try is somehow destroying the 
environment. We would all be 
better off, they say, if we reduced 
or eliminated the meat intake in 
our diets. Aside from improving 
the environment and redirecting 
grain resources, we will no longer 
be committing the sin of exploit­
ing animals for food. Fortunately, 
this view has yet to make any 
impact on public policy, but if 
present trends continue, it is only 
a matter of time before this envi­
ronmental cause receives serious 
government attention.
Environmentalists claim that 
the meat industry causes severe 
ecological damage by overgraz­
ing. They also allege that mil­
lions of acres of Brazilian rain 
forest are butchered to provide 
grazing land so that Americans 
can have cheap beef. These claims 
are spurious.
In the case of overgrazing, 
ranchers have a selfish interest 
in keeping their range lands in 
good condition. Overgrazing and 
destruction of their lands results 
in economic damage to them­
selves. You can’t feed cattle on 
land that you destroyed last year. 
There are problems with over- 
grazing in the western United 
States, but these problems are 
almost exclusively confined to 
federally-managed lands. The 
federal government owns huge 
tracts of grazing land in several 
western states and leases this 
land to private ranchers. Unfor­
tunately, there is little or no su­
pervision of use or penalty for 
destructive usage. Since they bear 
little or no responsibility, ranch­
ers leasing these lands have little 
incentive to engage in proper 
management practices.
This also gives them an unfair 
advantage over private landown­
ers who don’t have the govern­
ment picking up the tab. The so­
lution to this problem is to sell off 
all federally-owned land and let 
private individuals bear the cost
and responsibility of manage­
ment.
Rain forest destruction on be­
half of the meat industry is also a 
‘problem’ blown out of propor­
tion. There is no evidence for the 
claim that millions of acres are 
being irrevocably lost every year. 
Two U.N. studies give rates of 
deforestation between 0.0025 and 
0.004 percent every year. Given 
that forest is able to recover very 
rapidly from logging activities 
there is little cause for concern 
that the rain forest may disap­
pear anytime soon. There have 
been some areas of Brazil that 
have been over-exploited with 
resulting serious ecological dam­
age. This is not typical of rain 
forest exploitation, though.
Environmentalists also claim 
that the meat industry is using 
up huge amounts of grain, and 
that this is obscene in a world 
with so much hunger in it.
It is true that the meat indus­
try uses millions of tons of grain 
every year. Yet countries like the 
United States, which have an 
enormous meat industry, still
manage to produce many more 
millions of tons of surplus grain 
every year. It is not the meat 
industry hogging grain that 
causes starvation in parts of the 
world, it is the political systems 
in those countries with hunger 
problems. The reason the U.S. is 
able to produce so much is be­
cause our level of freedom, under 
attack and abridged as it is, is so 
much higher than that of the 
starving third world countries. I 
would also like to point out to 
those who claim that grain eaten 
by cattle should be fed to the 
starving of the world that that 
grain was not produced by you 
and is not yours to redistribute to 
the needy of the world.
Finally, I would like to address 
the notion at the base of this, and 
many other environmental ideas; 
the absurd notion of ‘animal 
rights.’ Using animals as a source 
of food is immoral, claim many 
environmentalists, because it vio­
lates their rights. This completely 
ignores the meaning of the con­
cept of a right.
A right is a moral principle that
arises in a social context. It is the 
principle that a man may pursue 
his own interests, and thus sus­
tain his own life, without the in­
terference of other men. Rights 
are based on the fact that man is 
a rational creature. Environmen­
talists ignore this distinction and 
insist that any sentient being has 
an absolute right to live.
One might note the absurdity 
that animals prey on each other 
and use one another for food all 
the time. Why should man be the 
only one to abstain? Why is it 
natural for a wolf to kill and eat a 
deer, but grossly immoral for a 
man to do so?
There is no answer to this ques­
tion, and none is really necessary 
in order to understand the mo­
tives of environmentalists on this 
issue.
For those who advocate any 
government involvement in the 
issue, their desire, as in every 
other issue, is desire for power 
over the lives of their fellow men.
. J011 Orris is a fourth-year phys­
ics major.Pro: Intolerable conditions inhumane to animals
Brooke Goldner
For many people, 
ignorance is prefer­
able to the trouble of 
altering their 
lifestyles to relieve 
their consciences.
Personally, I am a vegetarian, and have been for what 
will be six years in March. I was a meat and potatoes girl 
for a long time, never once considering the connection 
between beef and the black and white cows grazing in 
the pastures. Nobody wants to recognize these correla­
tions, because that would necessitate confronting their 
own convictions and values. The meat industry’s blatant 
abuse of animals is unwarranted, and not so surpris­
ingly, unadvertised.
I have been approached many times by people de­
manding to explain my reasons for abstaining from 
meat. They are ready to accept “for health reasons” or “I 
have allergies”, but if I mention moral issues they 
become immediately defensive. I can’t count the number 
of times been told about the cruelty to lettuce and 
;broccoli in today’s world. This reaction is all too common.
The realization responsible for my decision was that 
all animals should be treated equally. For instance, why 
our culture treat a dog like a king, while pigs are 
inhumanely quartered and brutally slaughtered? Pigs 
are proven to be highly intelligent and affectionate.
Millions are contained in cages that are so small that
Writer reflects on semester
More than two, you’re either overly excit­
able or very lucky.
How many nights have you gone out 
with friends? How many nights have you 
ended up on the floor of someone’s apart­
ment talking philosophy at 3 am? How 
many mornings did you just stay in bed? If 
you answered less than three on any of 
these, you might want to work on those 
things.
Life here can and will be bearable. That’s 
pretty much all you need to know. Go 
home or abroad, wherever you spend your 
vacations, fill yourself with holiday cheer 
and happy stuff like that. Sit down for a 
little while and reflect on what you did this 
semester. Did you do anything important? 
Did you learn anything worth repeating? 
I’m betting you’ll say ‘yes’ to both of these, 
but just make sure. Have fun.
John Biggs is the Tartan Forum editor.
their legs atrophy from lack of use. They are lined up 
head to tail, and are maintained in this claustrophobic 
condition until they are slaughtered. Some of the ani­
mals actually go insane from living this way and bite off 
the tail of the pig in front of them. How did the breeders 
remedy this situation? They now remove the tails from 
the baby pigs before caging them.
Cows experience equal, if not more brutal torment. 
Cows represent one of the most peaceful animals in 
existence. However, the modem meat industry has 
reduced them to reduced products on a disassembly line 
of broken bodies and crying cattle. The fattened cows 
are cramped into truck trailers, with no room to move. 
The journey to the slaughterhouse in itself is a rough 
and brutal, causing animals to fall and be trampled 
upon inside the trucks. These “downers” suffer from 
broken legs and pelvises.
The cattle are shipped along interstate highways for 
hours or days at a time, often without rest, nourishment 
or water. They are eventually deposited in giant slaugh­
ter houses. The “downers,” however, must wait to be 
unloaded. These animals are often in severe pain, but 
are not euthanized or anesthetized because that would 
constitute additional expenses, and perhaps a lost car­
cass. Animals that die en route are thrown into a heap; 
onto the “dead pile.”
Cows and pigs are not the only animals that suffer, all 
of the animals we term “livestock” are treated more as
objects, than as living beings. Many believe that as 
human beings, the top of the food chain, we have the 
power and the right to do what we please. The problem 
with this perception is that as powerful beings, shouldn’t 
we have the moral compunction to be just and kind? It is 
not necessary to torture animals in order to consume 
them. The unfortunate reality is that their slaughter is 
the most pleasant event in their lives — because it ends 
their suffering.
There are enough resources on our planet to provide 
for everyone, yet the wealthy, meat-addicted nations 
have dominated these resources. These wealthy few 
aren’t healthy either. They suffer from the diseases of 
affluence: strokes, heart attacks, heart disease, and 
obesity. We must find some kind of balance between 
these two extremes, and limiting the consumer base for 
the meat industry is the first step towards the final 
result.
A popular reaction to my so-called liberal attitude is 
that one person can’t change things. The numbers of 
vegetarians and other environmental activists is in­
creasing rapidly every year, assuring the implementa­
tion of changes in our daily lives. Perhaps, in time, if 
people come together with the common goal of saving our 
world, we can create a future world free of needless 
cruelty and environmental disasters.
Brooke Goldner is a freshman in H&SS.
are almost upon us, let’s stop a moment and 
figure out just what happened. Most of this 
is geared towards freshmen, so with that in 
mind, let’s get rolling.
First, ask yourself if you did well this 
semester. How were your grades? If you said 
about a B or a C, you’re ok. That’s average, 
and all is right with the world. If you said A, 
then that’s just wonderful. If you said D orR, 
than you’re fine, as well. Take a nap and 
come back refreshed. So no worries in this 
'department.
Now, let’s get to your love life. How many 
tates have you had this semester? One or 
two? You’re going strong. None, you better 
cracking or else you’re going to miss out.
Racial history reexamined
MINORITIES, from page 6 
ship and ownership of property. They 
were even thrown in concentration 
camps during World War II. They suc­
ceeded. Asians, as a racial group, have 
the highest per capita incomes in the 
United States.
How did they do it? Well you cer­
tainly can’t deny that racism worked 
against them as much as anyone else. 
Things were tough, but they persevered. 
They saved their money and worked 
hard. They pooled the resources of their 
communities and opened businesses 
which flourished. There are now large 
numbers of Asians in the higher earn­
ing professions whose family back­
grounds are quite lowly.
These sons and daughters of shop­
keepers are now the engineers, doctors,
and scientists which enable a high 
tech nation to prosper.
Did they get any handouts? Did 
they need a government dole to ad­
vance? Did they have a quota which 
gave them a leg up on the competi­
tion? No, they found what it took 
within themselves to get ahead.
This is what America always used 
to be about.This is something which 
has almost been lost in a mire of 
handouts and quotas and the denial 
of personal responsibility. Maybe with 
a greater regard for succeed] ng rather 
than finding a way to blame their 
failure on racism, some groups might 
be better able to get ahead.
James Stepanek is a graduate stu­
dent in MCS.
The joy and love of the holi­
day season is fast approach- 
Mgt. so you better get off your 
butt and buy some presents. 
We asked: What is the 
greatest hoiiday-season 
gift you’ve ever gotten or 
could hope to get?
Doug Rhody 
Graduate Student 
CS
“A thesis.”
Linda Ertel 
Senior 
Chem E
“A skateboard. It got it when I 
was eight.”
Tom Lawrence 
Graduate Student 
Mech E
“A trip to Germany.”
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Alexis Soetile
Sophomore
BHA
“Chocolate-frostedPop Tarts.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Cliief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager............Amit Kar
News Editor..................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor......................John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
.........................................Matthew Solitro
Features Editor. Shannon Gibney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Calendar Editor......................Sharmila-
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
.............................................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
...............................................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
...........................................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed..........Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr..................... Kathy Liu
Systems Manager.................1-Ping Li
Copy Manager................Eric Strauss
Asst. Features Ed. Jlllian Watkins 
Asst. Diversions Ed. . .. Ena Khan' 
Asst. Prod. Mgr. ..Shantanu Rana' 
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Personnel Mgr..........Brian Curfman-
Senior Staff 
Gil Aiterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chiappetta,
Chintan Shah
Staffwriters 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
Steve Charnoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil1 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goidwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, David Ko-. 
ran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, Jay Miolla, April C. Moate, 
Angela Molloy, Jonmichael L.T. 
Moy, Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir 
Reddy, Rick Rikoskl, Rick* 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Jes-; 
sica Strelitz, PaulTabachneck, Bill 
Vandermark, Dawn Wallhausen, 
AndrewWang, SusanWatson, Bra­
dley Zimmerman, Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Piotkin, Ryan • 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hiromi’ 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave' 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Yim
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Howard, Sandy Lii, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria Valenti, 
Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Jennifer Li, Lester Manzano, Eliza­
beth Neuman
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee-Cardelli, Mimi- 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhay 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win­
ter Mason, Helena McGahagari, 
Victor Ortega, Catherine
Senderling, M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi, 
Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff <-
Rahul Aggarwal, Kaorl Aoyama,- 
Diana Bartolotta, Lome Colon,~ 
Annemarie Devine, Ryan Donovan, 
F. Colt Foutz, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Anukul Kapoor, Hanjay 
Kim, Dizzy Murphy, Kenneth- 
Namkung, Dan Rosenberg, 
Raghuram Selvaraju, Minh Trari, 
Aaron Welsberg
Tht Tartan li ilio studcm ncwspapct of Camogio Menai University. IlJt< a wecMy /»»spape/ pjNlined &y studcnts duing tuo fan and spréig scmosie/s. ai no cosi to mcmoei» ol ino Unhe/jity convnunKy. it ls' «¡MM By Western Pennatioila Primlng, Inc. Sub sc/ipticns o/o avallatile' foi ino someste/ 01 oc adorile >oa/. The editoriali appoa/ing at ine bcginnjig of tho opinion scction aro tho ofltoai opinion ol Tho Tartan- cditoiial boa/d. Column» and politicai cartoon» 010 Uio bpinjeps-of Indr/Wualcioatof». The Tartan rosones ino Ughi to icjcct oicofldcnso apy» column Of politicai cartoon. Utte/s to tho Editor aio opinlons ol outhois' »ho «o usuali/, but not occossont/, mombflis of tho UnKorarty commu­nity. A lette» ir,tended loi pubUcaUcn must to signeu and «dodo ma' wiitcr’s oddrcss and pftono numocr lo« Voflflcatlon. damos ma-/ be withhoM upon requost. Tho Tartan icquests that lottcri Do no longo/ man- 500 woids. Tho Tartan icsorvos tho ilpit to condenso 01 icjoct any lottò/. Copyright 01595&/Tho Tartan. Tht Tartan editorial boa/d /eso/ves eie tight to wilhhold fiom publicatlcn any copy it dioms unfit hi puNeaUen.'' Office: Sludont Conto/ Room 104 Phcno: 412/268-2111Mailing addrcss: Tho Tartan/Boi 17/Caincgc Mellon Untarslty/Pillsbufgh. P* 15213-3800 FiraM h part by yout AetMtios Feo.Aa iigms leservod.Utxaiy of Congiess ISSN »: 0850-3107.The Tartan is a member of tho Associated Piess.

---------------------------------------------------

Bring Us Your 
Bestseller.
Listed below are answers to questions relating to the Book Buy Back process. As a stu­
dent, we know you have many questions about the book buy back. The process is complex 
but this is meant to provide you with ansiuers to the most common questions and explain 
the role of the bookstore and the wholesaler.
Who is baying my books?
The person buying your books is ; 
Follett Campus Resources.
wholesale textbook representative from
Which books may I sell?
You may sell any book that you own that is required again on our campus or that 
has a value in the national wholesale buyers' guide. This guide consists of thou­
sands of college textbook titles and their current national wholesale value.
What determines the value of the books?
The value is determined by many factors. If it is being purchased by the book­
store for use on campus, you can typically expect an offer representing 50% of 
the net purchase price. Remember, you didn't pay full retail. The Textbook Store 
is one of a few college book stores in the nation that offers a discount to the 
students. CMU students receivea student discount: 15% on new textbooks and 
10% on used textbooks. Your Buy Back Price will reflect your net purchase price.
Baker Hall Lobby 
Dec. 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 
9am - 4pm
Dec. 18 , 19 
9am - 4pm
peat
Faculty Member:oaring for their finals, we are preparing for ’ -~”Hrally over the past several
'¦ has
If the book is not being used again on campus, it has .no value to the bookstore. 
Fortunately, we have negotiated with the wholesaler to offer the national whole­
sale price to you for your book. The price offered in the national wholesale 
buyers' guide is determined by many factors, including:
• Publisher's retail or list price for the book
• National demand for the books
• Unsold quantities of the book currently in the wholesalers 
warehouse
But I KNOW the book is being used again. Why did I only 
get the national wholesale price for the book?
For one of the following reasons:
• The instructor has not submitted the requisition; therefore the 
store is not aware that it is being used again.
• The quantity required for use in the bookstore has already been 
reached.
As the students are preparing next spring. Book prices have risen drastically -"•« and NACS (National Association of CoUege Stores; u«- •» worldwide paper shortage and that paper-r. „ra tryjng to help students save-"ssible. Even with the
Repast 
es) has
veats an< 
alerted uS
there is a
from
as
used
prices have rise». r 4-6%. Wemoney by offering as many used books as possum.51% discount on new books and the 50% discount offered on 
books; textbooks are a major investment for the students. The 
ability to offer students used books at 25% off the new prices 
coupled with the 50% discount makes a significant difference.
Our best source for used books is our own student body. When we 
know a book will be reused next term, we can offer our current 
students half-price. If we don't have this information the best price -- a used book wholesaler is wilhng to pay. Usu- retail selling price. More
" ¦ - " national whole-jtudenia —offered is whatever a used Sevra• r- ^nlv 30% of the suggested retau o ’ that are shipped to a loe
nation
sonty,-wevet.poo^s
imp
sale1>aler are not av
Please help us deliver textbooks to the sru^.—bv submitting your textbook adoption forms uy _' -^ntion forms for the spring term have not '":*+ at the Textbook Store at x8- —- what books
aüableto out
that ate - 
CVtU sW<dents-
at the lowest pos-
itauv. - ( r''or,£'TT\_
,ible price by ceSesa ta waik textbook adoption ioiu.~- -intact Rita Witt at the -'-"ow whaf
not 
at *8"
I bought this book brand new and have kept it in mint 
condition. Why is it now being called "no value"?
Although poor condition of a book could be a factor in determin­
ing the value, your new book is probably the victim of the fol­
lowing:
• Publisher has produced or announced plans for a new edi­
tion.
• Many copies of the text exist, but few schools are adopting it 
for their curriculum (supply & demand).
• Wholesaler is overstocked in his warehouse.
When does it make sense for me to keep my books 
vs. selling?
Any time you have a book that you may frequently use for 
quick reference it is good to keep it. Any time you feel the 
price you are being offered is less than the value you place 
on the book, you may find it wise to keep the book. In 
any case, we appreciate the opportunity to make an offer 
for your books.
SlDxv. j-ber 7. If the textDi^..'-•pen submitted, please contact .* - -i rpy/ mail @ rw3q. As soon as we lybdy-'ill be able to pay the student han-«parch for additional
V.TVO-Wathatf-
tvatiotvalse*beensuu-*._1033 or via Andrew mau _ . are to be used next term, we will be i 
price for them and we will begin our i
copies from a wholesaler.joal to support your efforts by making the course materials
j the students at the lowest possible cost. Together we '—in ' - n-ip used textbook program herevalue to theIt is our gOcu ^ available to the students ai can accomplish this by improving the usea c CMU and offer an improved service and a better value t
atstudents-
T;ha^yoU
andv/eapPTIeciate y°uThelp'
pitector o
Pile up your textbooks and 
bring them to Book Buyback. We'll give you 
cash for them. But, you can't cash in, 
unless you come in.
What happens to the books I sell to the whole­
saler?
The books are packed and shipped to the distribution 
center. They are received, processed and placed in the 
physical and computerized inventory. This will make 
then available for purchase by other bookstores na­
tionwide.
How does this benefit me?
By selling your textbooks to your bookstore and to a 
national wholesale company, you are participating 
in a process which makes quality used textbooks 
available to you and future students at other 
colleges and universities. Used books represent 
one of the few opportunities for savings available 
in your pursuit of -higher education. Finally, 
recycling textbooks is an environmentally sound 
practice.
Thank you for the opportunity to explain the "mystery" of the used book buy back pro­
cess. We hope this clears up any misconceptions and if you have any questions please feel 
free to contact me via my andrew mail address which is ps40.
Patricia A. Stncer 
Director of Retail Sewices
Book Buyback. 
It Pays to Be Part of It
We buy books that can be reused here...or on other campuses. FOR CASH

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
Chuck Just got-Killer Instinct.
Chuck's taken one too 
many plasma slices to 
the face. One too many 
CQ3S3ESU2ES to the groin. But all is not lost. Because 
er Ins t i nc t™ ca r t r i dge, he got a game
music CD. And a free limited-edition cap. As if KI's 
Q3EES ACM graphics and nine WBWHflHIBl 
machines weren't enough. Actually, it was 
for Chuck. Just ask him. On second
Free hat offer is available with proof of purchase of Killer Instinct game cartridge. 
Offer ends 3/31/96. See participating retailers for details.
thought, maybe not.
i3l!j¥bu mm(yreJ/? BâB ä Harras men
mmmmmmmmmm
©1995 Nintendo/Rare. Killer Instinct™ Is a trademark of Nintendo of America Inc.
AOL @ keyword: NOA 
www.nlntondo.com
Administration
Tl Director— Mike Mastroianni fFSCCkP. 
Asst. Director— Mike Grzywinski AFNSC,NF. 
IM Secretary — Michelle Matta fFSC’HN. IM 
Co-Presidents — Mike Monico and Sean 
Keane fCSC,’’. IM Women’s President — 
patty Bruno.
Important Dates
Monday — Three-Person Volleyball Play­
offs begin.
Team Table Tennis Playoffs posted.
Tuesday— Bowling Playoffs posted. The 
playoffs will be played on Saturday, Decem­
ber 9.
Thursday—Three-Person Volleyball Cham­
pionships.
Soccer Championships
Majors
F.C. Schlitz captured the IM Majors soccer 
championship with an 8-2 victory over Real 
Mellon A. Most Valuable Player of the cham­
pionship game was Tai Labib. Labib scored 
five goals in the finals.
F.C. Schlitz finished the season with a 7- 
1 record.
Intermediate
PKT Brazil’s Nick Moons’ overtime goal 
gave Phi Kappa Theta the intramural interme­
diate soccer championship victory over SAE 
Strikers. PKT Brazil concluded the season 
with an 8-1 overall record.
Minors
SAE Hat Trick defeated the Bleeding Suck 
4-2 to claim the 1995 minors soccer cham­
pionship. SAE Hat Trick’s championship vic­
tory capped off a perfect 8-0 season.
Women
The Flying O’s defeated a strong Kappa 
Alpha Theta team, 2-0, to claim the 1995 
| women’s soccer championship. The Flying 
! O’s Wendy B. was named Most Valuable 
Player.
The Flying O’s finished the season with a 
!5-1-1 overall record.
!! The Intramural Department would like to 
thank all of the teams, officials and intramu­
ral workers for their cooperation during the 
;1995IM Soccer Reason.
|j With the early snow, the IM Department 
;had to make day-to-day changes to complete 
: the season. Once again, thanks foryour help.
Three-Person Volleyball Playoffs
The 1995 Three-Person Volleyball Playoffs 
'begin on Monday, December 4 and will con­
clude on Thursday, December 7. Here are the 
; first round games:
Majors
Monday, December 4 —
Last Minute vs. Pike Waffles Club (7:45, B) 
Mechanically Inclined vs. Six Pack Club 
(8:45, B)
Intermediate
Monday, December 4 —
Mayor Team vs. Blue Meanies (7:45, C)’ 
SPE vs. SAE Iron City (8:45, A)
SU vs. Pioneers A (9:30, C)
Pioneers B vs. Fringe A (8:45, C)
Minors
Monday, December 4 —
Moog vs. TX Red Dog (6:45, A)
Pane Killers Avs. DU Waterlogged (6:45,C) 
PKT Boz vs. Navy Team Charlie (7:45, A) 
The Client vs. Beta Hitmen (6:45, B)
Women
Tuesday, December 5 —
Tartan Hoopers Avs. Pioneers Edge (10:00)
Officials
Basketball and Floor Hockey officials are 
needed for next semester’s IM activities. If 
you are interested and looking for a campus 
J°b, call IM Director Mike Mastroianni at x8- 
2214.
IM Holiday Lunch
Any official or equipment manager who can 
attend the IM Holiday Lunch on Wednesday, 
December 13, at noon, must sign up with IM 
Director Mike Mastroianni by Friday, Decem­
ber 8. For more details, call the IM Office at 
X8-2214.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Columnist reviews NFL’s best
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
As the 1995 NFL season comes to 
a close and the playoffs begin to take 
shape, both the players and teams 
who are the elite of the NFL have 
emerged.
NFL MVP &
Offensive Player of the Year
Dallas Cowboys running back 
Emmitt Smith gets my vote as both 
the NFL and Offensive MVP of the 
1995 season. As of week 13, Smith 
has a league-high 1,403 yards rush­
ing and 1,710 total yards. Smith 
also leads the league with 21 touch­
downs, andis four touchdowns away 
from breaking former Washington 
Redskins runningback John Riggins’ 
NFL record of 24 touchdowns in a 
season. If it were not for some nag­
ging injuries, Smith could also be in 
contention for breaking the NFL 
rushing record, but right now, it 
looks close to impossible.
Smith is the main workhorse of 
the Dallas Cowboys offense, and is 
one of the main reasons why Dallas 
boasts the best record in the NFL at 
10-2. He manages to cut his way 
right through opposing defenses, and 
helps set up basically every other 
part of the Dallas offense.
Special thanks can go to the Cow­
boys’ offensive line, fullback Daryl 
Johnston, and tight end Jay
Novacek, for providing Smith with 
superior blocking.
Runners-up include running backs 
Barry Sanders, Ricky Watters, and 
Chris Warren, and quarterbacks Troy 
Aikman, Jim Harbaugh, and Steve 
Bono.
Defensive Player of the Year
Buffalo Bills outside linebacker 
Bryce Paup has helped return the 
Bills’ defense to the top of the league. 
As a free agent from Green Bay, Paup 
has provided the Bills with the out­
side pass-rush they sorely needed. So 
far this season Paup has recorded a 
league-high 15 sacks, and is just eight 
shy of breaking the NFL record.
With the return of the Bills, who 
now boast an 8-4 record, Paup can be 
looked upon as a major contributing 
factor to their turn-around. Paup is 
complemented nicely by linebacker 
Cornelius Bennett on the other side 
of the Bills’ 3-4 defense.
Coach of the Year
Ray Rhodes of the Philadelphia 
Eagles has done a most impressive 
job by taking a team that includes 33 
new faces and three rookies at start­
ing positions to an 8-4 record. The 
Eagles, whom many thought would 
be a cellar team, currently hold the 
third-best record in the NFL behind 
the Dallas Cowboys and Kansas City 
Chiefs. The Eagles defense is ranked 
third in the NFL after losing every 
one of its defensive starters from the 
1991 Eagles team which was first in 
total, rushing, and passing defense 
in the NFL.
The defense, which starts two rook­
ies and has three players that weren’t 
even playing football last year, lead 
the league in sacks and are one of the
main reasons the Eagles are 8-4. 
The Eagles also have the league’s 
second-best rushing attack, led by 
running backs Ricky Watters and 
Charlie Garner.
Eagles owner Jeff Lurie hired Ray 
Rhodes in the off-season from the 
San Francisco 49ers where he served 
as defensive coordinator. He has seen 
six of his starters go down for the 
season and yet has been able to com­
pensate by making the right deci­
sions. His no-nonsense approach has 
re-established the Eagles as one of 
the top threats in the NFL.
Carolina Panthers head coach Dorn 
Capers is also a strong candidate 
with his expansion Panthers posting 
a 5-6 record.
NFL Rookie of the Year
Running back Terrell Davis was 
drafted in the sixth round out of 
Georgia by the Denver Broncos and 
managed to defy the odds and fight 
his way into the starting line-up and 
currently leads the AFC with 1,348 
total yards.
Davis scored eight touchdowns and 
has provided head coach Mike 
Shanahan with Ricky Watters-type 
running back needed to run the West 
Coast offense. His catching and run­
ning abilities have helped open up 
the Denver offense. Davis is also 
second in the AFC among active run­
ners with a 4.7 average yards per 
rush.
Runners-up include running back 
Curtis Martin, quarterback Kerry 
Collins, and wide receiver Joey Gal­
loway.
Steve Charnoubi would like to 
thank his college years for expanding 
his mind.
No favorite in Fiesta Bowl
FIESTA, from page 12
The pass defense may be lacking however, the 
average team bleeds them for 215.7 yards] 
Nebraska’s secondary must play well to stop 
Florida’s pass-first mentality.
Ball control and mistake-free football are 
Nebraska’s strong suits. Their running game 
starts and finishes long drives and keeps the 
other offense off the field. They have forced 28 
turnovers while yielding ten. Against Colorado; 
the Comhuskers did not commit a penalty or a 
turnover.
Florida, on the other hand, plays without a 
conscience. Their best game, penalty-wise, was 
against a weak Vanderbilt team when they had 
four for 30 yards.
Opponents have come to expect lots of hel$ 
from them, like their 11 penalty for 116 yard^ 
performance at Tennessee, 12 for 95 at Georgia! 
13 for 90 at South Carolina, and 12 for 113 a^ 
LSU. They also turn the ball over like Sant4 
Claus gives gifts. The Gators have given the ball 
up at least twice in all but two games this season!
All this said, it is now abundantly clear that 
there is no favorite in this game. Nebraska is d 
solid team with a 20-plus-game winning streak! 
Florida is on a roll too, and while they only score 
touchdowns, they get a lot of them.
As an amateur analyst, I say to expect a track 
meet. The University of Florida will fumble! 
throw interceptions, commit other mental er-l 
rors, and let Nebraska run all over them, but will 
get going with their energetic young offense. I
It’s my opinion that the Gator defense will 
hang in there against the tough Nebraska run 
game and that the Comhusker defense won’t be 
able to stop that fun ’n gun offense that keeps 
going and going and going.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore computer science 
major.His studies have found that three out of 
every five alligators can, in fact, eat corn, even if 
it runs.
r/

---------------------------------------------------

38th United States Air Force Academy Assembly
Topic: “U.S. Foreign Policy and the U.N. System’ 
12-15 March 1996
H&SS will sponsor one H&SS undergraduate student as the CMU 
delegate to attend the 38th U.S. Air Force Academy Assembly, March 
12-15, 1996, on the Academy’s Colorado campus.
In the Assembly, students learn about a policy topic through inter­
action with government officials, educators, business people and 
other students from around the country. A ski trip is also included. 
Transportation, housing and meal expenses will be provided.I »
wohfhyhohal“ for H&SS undergraduate students; any major, any year; 
no ROTC affiliation required.
To n--ol“ Submit a 1-2 page essay describing your interest in the 
Assembly topic, plus your ability to represent CMU effectively in 
deliberations. Include a resume, and two letters of recommenda­
tion from faculty. t--oh”nahes urnuohsr“ December 13,1995. Fcyb
gha n--oh”nahes. ae“ Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS, 
c/o H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.
Gymmgbsua
FINANCIAL MARKETS W
COMMODITIES 
NEWS
We’re Looking for Tomorrow’s Innovators.
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P. is a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment 
professionals and major companies around the world.
THE POSITION
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for entry-level positions in New York City and Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at least 
two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
We will be recruiting at Carnegie Melon on February 1,1996. 
Contact the Career Services Office if you are interested 
in more information or would like to interview for the 
above position.
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer
TARTAN BOARD 
ELECTIONS TUESDAY
Editor-In-Chief-iManaging Editor
tpso
-, T¦ -•-'•s' ;
Section Editors
Attention: All Eligible Staff Members 
What: Tartan Board Elections 
When: Tuesday, December 5, 5:30pm 
Where: Posner Hall (GSIA) 145
J
If you cannot attend: Please stop by the Tartan office 
Monday, Dec. 4 and fill out an absentee ballot or proxy your vote
1996 Editorial Board Elections

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,Hkk
[Newcastle loaded to win
World Wide Sports
by Rahul Aggarwal
English Soccer
As the English soccer season 
ipproaches the halfway stage, 
Newcastle United, the champi- 
mship favorite, opened up a five- 
pointgap atthe top ofthe league 
river contender Manchester 
United. The top three positions 
of the table are occupied by: 
Newcastle United at 12-2-1 
with 38 points, Manchester 
United at 10-3-2 with 33 points, 
and Arsenal at 8-4^3, with 28 
points.
Duringthe pre-season, foreign 
stars were flooding into En­
gland; Ruud Gullit (Chelsea), 
Dennis Bergkamp (Arsenal), 
and David Ginola (Newcastle) 
are only a few examples. The 
recent capture of Brazilian ge­
nius, Juninho, by 
Middlesbrough sums up for me 
She fact that the English 
Premiership is the best league 
in the world, at least in terms of 
|heer excitement.
Many may argue for the Italian 
league, but I disagree. Having 
ieen exposed to English soccer 
all my life, the excitement and 
passion generated by the fans 
spurs teams to produce high-qual- 
ity, entertaining soccer. New­
castle United, dubbed the “En­
tertainers,” are a clear example 
ofhowthe game shouldbe played. 
Their continuous waves of attack 
have made them the most excit­
ing and dangerous team in En- 
i soccer today, and for that 
reason, they are sitting at the 
ip.
It is hard to believe that this is 
the same team that four years 
was staring at the possibility 
ofrelegation to the old third Divi­
sion. However, Newcastle United 
produced a turn-around nothing 
Short of a miracle, thanks to the 
then-new manager, Kevin 
Keegan, and the money, of chair­
man Sir John Hall.
Newcastle made a similar start 
last season, but injuries, a loss in 
form, and the £7 million transfer 
¿Heading striker, Andy Cole, to 
Manchester United, led to a sixth- 
place finish.
The Blackburn Rovers finished 
fhampions, but their season has 
Started disastrously. They are 
(urrently 13th in the league with 
18 points, and knocked out of the 
Coca-Cola Cup and the European 
Champions Cup. That is why I 
ion’t see them repeating last 
¡ason’s feat.
Manchester United, the top 
!am in England for the past few 
Jears, can still pose a serious 
threat to Newcastle, as they have 
strong team with Frenchman 
Eric Cantona, Ryan Giggs, and 
ole. Despite Arsenal’s capture 
if Bergkamp and David Platt, 
still lack the killer touch 
ieeded to be champions.
Many saw Liverpool as cham- 
>ionship favorites along with 
Newcastle, but they are currently 
experiencing their worst run for 
'cars. Out oftheir last six games, 
hey have lost five and drawn one 
md are lying eighth in the league 
*ith 24 points.
¡ Newcastle United spent £14 
pillion on players in the pre-sea- 
0I1> bringing in Frenchman 
^avid Ginola (£2.5 million), War­
ren Barton (£4 million), Les 
^i'dinand(£6 million) and Shaka 
“slop (£1.5 million). Ferdinand 
the leading goalscorer with 18
Tastebudsawaken at
Baum Vivant 682-2620
goals in 18 games. With 
Ferdinand’s striking prowess, 
Ginola’s magical skills, and the 
skills of Peter Beardsley and Rob­
ert Lee, Newcastle may finally 
have the perfect squad to win the 
championship. They have already 
beaten Liverpool twice, and last 
year’s champions, Blackburn.
The crucial match will be 
against Manchester United later 
this month. If Newcastle can 
avoid injuries and continue their 
recent form, come next May, they 
will be the new Premiership 
Champions.
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager
International Cricket
India vs. New Zealand—India 
wrapped up the one-day interna­
tional series with a 3-2 victory 
over the Kiwis.
New Zealand opened the series 
with an eight-wicket victory over 
the hosts in Jamshedpur on No­
vember 15. India came back with 
a six-wicket win three days later 
in Amritsar. The match on No­
vember 21 in Goa was abandoned. 
On November 24, India came out 
victorious by five wickets in Pune, 
but New Zealand evened the se­
ries at two apiece with a 99-run 
win in Nagpur. However, India 
was able to win the final and 
deciding match in Bombay by six 
wickets on November 29.
The Man of the Series was
India’s Manoj Prabhakar, who 
performed well with both bat and 
ball. India has not lost a one-day 
series at home since 1990, but 
judging on this close result, India 
will have to improve by next Feb­
ruary to have a chance of winning 
the World Cup. Sachin Tendulkar 
had a poor series by his high 
standards, confirming my feel­
ing that when he or captain 
Mohammed Azharuddin don’t 
perform well, India tends to 
struggle.
At Nagpur, the Kiwi victory 
was marred by the collapse of the 
stand in which eight people were 
killed. This has led to people 
questioning India’s ability to 
stage the World Cup next Feb­
ruary and March.
Australia vs. Pakistan—Aus­
tralia underlined their superi­
ority over Pakistan with a crush­
ing 155-run victory in the sec­
ond Test, winning the Three- 
Test Series (2-0) with one more 
match to go. The Man of the 
Match was Australia’s Mark 
Taylor. Yet again, Pakistan 
struggled with the bat and could 
only muster scores of 198a/o and 
220a/o in reply to Australia’s 
scores of 267a/o and 306a/o. Pa­
kistan heads into the final match 
with only their pride left to play 
for.
South Africa vs. England — A 
potentially-exciting Test match 
was spoiled by rain as England 
had made a good start in their 
historic series against South Af­
rica. England made 381/9 with 
Graeme Hick scoring 141. Unfor­
tunately, England did not get the 
chance to test the South African 
batting line-up. However, I ex­
pect South Africa to win the 
Three-Test Series, 1-0, because 
of home advantage and their po­
tentially dangerous bowling at­
tack. They also have solid bats­
men in Gary Kirstem and Hansie 
Cronje.
Rahul Aggarwal is a junior ex­
change student from the UK who 
is majoring in IM.
Fundamentals of Ice Hockey 
&
A non-credit class is being formed for next term for all 
levels of ability.
For information call 276-4384 or 276-5283 after 6 pm. 
Spaces limited.
IfJe+fefl AlbS-
¿Q jQU care v^O vjou
MlrfL4, ' ' it to?
-fta-f jjou don't tttV. 
jeu wjMf accidental^ infect 
friei.4 W a lovsr'
Make sure fMt you don't.
3 v Mi) 
Pl ,pg5
^ -l-ho
~£olo
Hockey club leads division
HOCKEY, from page 11
The team is learning from their mistakes. The 
three losses of the season have been outside of 
CMU’s division, against Indiana (5-1), Penn State 
West (10-4), and West Virginia University (6-4).
‘The games we lost, and for part of the Robert 
Morris game, we really let down for most of the 
game. The hustle and desire weren’t present. If we 
are to be a championship team, we have to play to 
our ability in every game,” said Grad Student, 
defenseman Tom Sullivan.
“But we leaned a lot from those three losses, 
without them we’d still be soft and would have 
never played like we did against Pitt,” said 
Maddalena. The entire team sees the lines coming 
together now. The rookies are also adding to the 
scoring punch. Freshmen players like Andy Ox­
nard, Dino Sanchez, and Keith Garrett as well as 
junior Relja Ivanovich, have accounted for a good 
amount of scoring. Garrett and Sanchez put in 
four goals each in the first half of the season. 
Though a little more aggression is needed in the 
second line, Garrett has turned out to be a great 
two-way player, by both taking the body with 
strong checks and controlling the puck.
“With the return of Ray Ardire next semester, 
we should have an even more formidable offense. 
We may have the most offensive depth in the 
league right now.” Sullivan added.
Maddalena also cited senior winger Sean Odell 
and freshman center Steve Leonhardt as having 
made substantial contributions to the depth ofthe 
offense. “Steve is a solid player, but they are both 
strong on the penalty kill,” said Adukaitis.
While assistant captain Adukaitis has proven 
to be effective in checking and passing out of the 
zone to set up scoring, he has also been producing 
in the goal department this season. Adukaitis 
leads defensemen with four goals in nine games 
played. “Chris Adukaitis has really had to step up 
to become our premier defenseman, and has done 
so very well,” said Sullivan. “All of the defensemen 
have been working pretty hard, trying to pick up 
their game. Matt Monroe hasn’t received a ton of 
ice time, but worked hard and performed very
well when been called upon to do so,” he said. 
Monroe has two goals.
Graduate students Blair Echols and Sullivan 
as well as sophomores Paul Voulgaris and 
Bryan Campo have worked long shifts and had 
to produce some smart, hard checks to keep 
CMU in the game. “This team is not too bad 
about penalty minutes, considering that we 
are the smallest team in the past five years,” 
said Kodesh.
One major factor in CMU’s winning ways is 
the goaltending unit of junior Jon Kleigman 
and sophomore Derek Jander. Kleigman was 
cited by the three captains and player/coach 
Sullivan as having kept the team in games 
during times of inconsistent play. His concen­
tration on play in front of the net and accuracy 
on stopping shots in close has earned him 
recognition from other league coaches for his 
skill.
In the backup position, Jander has been put 
into most non-divisional action this semester 
facing tough teams like IUP and WVU. A 
newcomer to the team this year, his talents in 
swallowingup rebounds have greatly decreasedjt 
the tension in the defensive zone.
Looking to the next half of the season, CMU' 
will finally face rival Allegheny College and 
newcomer Westminster for another ten games 
before the playoffs in late February. And the 
home ice show-down between Pitt and CMU on 
Febraury 10 will draw another big crowd.
There are also rumors of a possible first , 
annual All-UAA Club hockey tournament in . 
the works; games between CMU, New York, 
University, Case Western Club, and Rochester 
Club.
“With more work next semester, I think that 
in the end we will be trying for the league 
championship again,” said Echols. They know, 
what to do, so ... send them on their way.
The first Friday back to classes, CMU will , 
travel to NYU, followed by a Saturday home 
matchup against Edinboro at the Neville Arena 
in South Side at 8:30 pm.
NHL prefers money to tradition
MONEY, from page 12
So what does this all mean? Hockey is simply becoming too commercial just like every other sport 
industry these days. The league has made significant advances, to make hockey more family entertain­
ing, especially in the past couple of years, courtesy of NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman. The league . 
should be given credit for moving along with the times. While the sport of professional ice hockey has 
increased in popularity and marketability in the past decade, the league must be cautious and not allow • 
today’s market to taint the tradition of hockey.
Jonmichael Moy is a junior IM/econ double major.
B osniasn-
buadlnu ea-r
One Horn Scroti gtCspkDD
Present your 
student I.D. 
one hour before 
Same time and 
you'll get the best 
available seat in 
the building 
for only $15.
Go to the Civic 
Arena Box Office, 
Gate 6, for these 
upcoming games.
For information 
call...
642-PENS
UPCOMING
GAMES:
Fri12/1vsFlorida
Thurs12/7vsMontreal
Sat12/9vsHartford
Tues12/19vsCalgary
Fri12/22vsMontreal
Tues12/26vsBuffalo
Thurs12/28vsHartford
Sat12/30vsFlorida
All sames 
start at 
7:30 PM.
Student Rush 
at 6:30 RM.
csur h.ae buadlnu 682
(Limit 1 Ticket Per Student - Subject to availability)

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans rake in awards
By DARREN CIIIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
The football team may have had a 
disappointing season by their stan­
dards on the field this year. But, as 
usual, they cleaned up in postseason 
awards.
The team finished with an overall 
record of 7-3, and although they lost 
to Case Western Reserve in the 
season’s final game to keep them 
from an outright University Ath­
letic Association title, they did tie 
for the crown with a 3-1 mark in the 
conference, their fifth in six years. 
Among their three UAA victories 
was a 12-8 win over then-nation­
ally-ranked Washington University 
of Missouri on Homecoming.
Seventeen Tartans were named to 
all-UAA teams, led by junior line­
backer Ray Ardire and sophomore 
halfback Chris Neupaver. Ardire was 
selected UAA Defensive Player of 
the Year in his first year in the 
starting lineup. An injury kept him 
out of action last year. Ardire had 
100 tackles, including 58 solo, re­
corded 1.5 sacks, and had an inter­
ception return for a touchdown.
Neupaver was without a doubt 
the biggest surprise of the season. 
Although he only started six games 
(he entered the lineup in the third 
game after an injury to Mike 
Mathias, then missed the final two 
games of the year with an injury of 
his own), he was second on the team 
in both rushing (366) and receiving 
(357) yards, and topped the team in 
scoring (42 points). Including kick- 
off returns, Neupaver had 955 all­
purpose yards.
Ardire, Neupaver, senior offensive 
guard Sean Keene and senior defen­
sive back Rob Locke were the lone 
Tartan representatives on the first 
team. It was Keene’s second appear­
ance on the top squad; Locke had 60 
tackles and three interceptions (one 
returned for a touchdown) to snag 
his third consecutive first-team se­
lection. He was also named as an 
honorable mention punt returner.
The Tartans placed seven players 
on each of the second and third 
teams. Senior fullback Lee Anton, 
CMU’s leading ground gainer with 
459 yards, was a second-team pick. 
Of greater importance, he was 
named to the GTE College Division 
District II Academic All-America 
Team.
First Team
Sean Keene, senior offensive guard 
Chris Neupaver, sophomore halfback 
Ray Ardire, junior linebacker 
Rob Locke, senior defensive back
Second Team
Lee Anton, senior fullback 
Sam Lybarger, junior offensive tackle 
AlexRutkowski.junioroffensiveguard 
T. J. Sharpe, junior tight end 
Mark Kasperowlcz, senior linebacker 
Nathan Morgan, junlordefenslve back 
Anima Nwankwo, sophomore defen­
sive tackle
Honorable Mention
Buck Neel, junior halfback 
Dave Soltysik, senior quarterback 
Dave Coates, senior defensive back 
Jarred McAdoo, Junior linebacker 
Todd McManus, junior defensive 
tackle
Rob Locke, senior punt returner 
Frank Triggianl, junior punter
Tartan hoopsters finish 
second in tournament
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans won their first conference 
matchup, finished second in their tourna­
ment, and challenged a strong Division I 
team over the past two weeks as they won 
two and lost two this week.
Last Thursday evening, CMU traveled 
out to Moon Township to face Robert Morris 
. College, a Division I squad. The Tartans 
kept within 10 points in the first half, but 
the Colonials came out with a vengeance 
in the second half to beat CMU, 94r-60.
Senior forward 
greater burden of the scor 
Senior center Jon Blanciak 
the most rebounds with 13.
Over Thanksgiving break, CMU
the Carnegie Mellon Invitational. In _______ _______ _______
first round, they disposed of Keuka Col- !¦
lege, 89-83. Junior guard Rich Bodnar
tallied the most points for the Tartans H flRRfc
\vith23,includingfour3-pointers. Blanciak
also had an excellent performance, with 19 - '
points and 14 rebounds. Byrne had an-
other strong game with 12 points and 10 ; Tartan file photo
rebounds. Senior forward Kevin Byrne takes a short
However, the Tartans were defeated by iumP shot In the Tartan s opening game. 
John Carroll in the championship game, boards for the Tartans and pulled down 10 
66-61. The Blue Streaks won the in vita- rebounds.
tional after overcoming CMU’s four-point Before the break, CMU defeated their 
halftime lead. first UAA opponent, Case Western Reserve
Byrne led CMU with 20 points, while University, 73463. Byrne again led the Tar- 
junior center Gary Trendel scored 14, and tans with 34 points and 18 rebounds, while 
Bodnar tallied 12. Blanciak crashed the Blanciak tallied $7 points.
Volume 90, Issue 124 December 1995
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
NHL follows 
NBA’s lead
If you have been keeping track 
of some of the recent hockey 
scores, you will notice that high- 
scoring games of 9-7 and 8-1 are 
becoming more common, espe­
cially whenever the Penguins’ 
potent offense is involved. What 
you are witnessing here is the 
partial effect of the National 
Hockey League’s reinforcement 
of the obstruction penalty this 
season.
In order to allow its hockey 
superstars to score easier, refer­
ees have been ordered by the 
league to ensure that obstruction 
calls are here to stay. The league 
feels that today’s hockey fans 
want to see high-scoring games 
With opposing teams racing back 
and forth attempting to deliver 
knockout blows, rather than 
goaltenders posting shutouts.
After witnessing the New Jer­
sey Devils winning the Cup last 
year while overcoming offensive 
powerhouses such as the Red 
Wings, Rangers, and Flyers, the 
league obviously didn’t want the 
clutching and grabbing to become 
the means of winning a champi­
onship.
In the month of October, ob­
struction penalties were called 
about 2.6 times per game. In 
approximately 117 games this 
season, NHL referees called a 
total of 308 obstruction penal­
ties. In November, those num­
bers were down. Obstruction calls 
were dished out on an average of 
1.84 times per game, which was 
less than the month of October. 
]# about 150 games, 276 obstruc­
tion calls were made.
However, the National Hockey 
League is forgetting that hockey 
is a physical sport like football, 
and it cannot always cater to their 
superstars. Teams who rely on 
finesse and flashy playmaking 
such as the Penguins have cov- 
' eted the obstruction rule and have 
reminded the league to continue 
its enforcement of the rule on 
numerous occasions this season. 
Face it, though, fighting and hard- 
jjosed checking is what defines 
the game, like it or not.
To go along with these high- 
• scoring affairs, you’ll also notice 
a scary trend that is starting to 
unravel in the National Hockey 
League. In the NBA, you’ll start 
fioticing that basketball teams 
are having their courts being 
. painted more and more now with 
outrageous colors to coordinate 
with its new uniforms. Go watch 
a Toronto Grizzlies home game 
and you’ll see what I mean. What 
\ye have here is a huge problem 
— many NHL teams are trying 
too hard to be like the NBA. The 
-Washington Capitals’ logo is a 
'Swooping eagle. The New York 
Islanders’logo, with the go-happy 
fisherman, resembles one found 
on a Gordon’s fish sticks box. This 
season’s new uniforms speak for 
¦themselves, consisting of 
, cartoonish logos and trendy col- 
,°rs.
While trying to catch on to the 
fancy logo and teal-colored' uni­
form rage of the San Jose Sharks 
and the Anaheim Mighty Ducks,
, hockey teams have started to be- 
cqme more concerned with the 
marketability of its team uni­
forms and logos than anything 
else. Sure, some teams are able 
to, but this trend is taking away 
the tradition that hockey was 
founded upon. More traditional 
team uniforms, such as those of 
the Canadians, Oilers, and Fly­
ers, are becoming harder to find.
Please see MONEY, page 11
Hockey Club hopes to continue winning streak
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Crucial. A turning point. These are the 
words that the captains of the Tartan 
ice-hockey squad, senior Roger 
Maddalena, grad student Blair Echols 
and junior Chris Adukaitis, use to de­
scribe the 3-1 win over Pitt two week­
ends ago. The Tartans head into the 
winter break 6-3 overall, but more im­
portantly, 4-0 in their division.
The first line, consisting of wingers 
Anthony Paul and Jim Buck and center 
Maddalena, have scored a combined to­
tal of 23 goals in the first nine games of 
the year, representing over half of the 
team’s scoring. Leading the pack is Buck, 
way out in front with 11 goals to Paul’s 
seven and Maddalena’s five.
Buck attributes his goal scoring to 
teamwork on the line. Unfortunately,
Buck sometimes overestimates on the goal, 
and accuracy is one of things he’ll be 
working on in the upcoming season to 
keep up his shooting percentage. “I also 
need to be hitting more, but that’s another 
story,” Buck said. Although he is one of 
the largest players on the team, Buck is by 
nature not an aggressive hitter.
“Buck has definitely improved over the 
past two years. But he needs to be a little 
more like, well Dino Ciccarelli or Cam 
Neely, throwing people around. There are 
streaks, even games, where he plays very 
consistent aggressive hockey, but he’s not 
destroying people, just moving them out 
of the action toward the boards.” said 
Adukaitis.
Anthony Paul, in his first year on the 
team, has adjusted quickly to collegiate 
hockey play. His highlight game of the 
season, the crushing 13-2 win over 
Edinboro, jump-started his year with five
goals and two assists. Paul has 
tallied a total seven goals in his 
eight games played. “Anthony is 
a good addition to the first line,” 
commented graduate student 
Dan Kodesh.
Maddalena is third on the goal 
scoring list with five goals and 
countless assists. He is the 
playmaker, setting up his 
wingers, wherever they are on 
the ice.
“The intensity of the play has 
finally picked up, not for just a 
few minutes, or a period at a 
time, like at Pitt, it was for a 
whole game.” he said. He may be 
tiny, but he’s solid, with enough 
misconducts to his name for the 
first half of the year to lead the 
players in penalty minutes.
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
Tartan Rie
The Tartans threaten the Robert Morris
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
CMU crushes Thiel
Gators battle 'Huskers in Fiesta
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
The question that has all of 
college football (and perhaps 
a few biologists) concerned is: 
Can an alligator eat com? On 
January 1, we’ll find out as 
Florida takes on Nebraska.
This season’s Fiesta Bowl is 
a matchup of con­
trasting offenses.
Florida brings its 
fun ’n gun offense 
which averages 
over 27 first downs 
and 45 points a 
game. The offense 
runs around a 
stable of talented 
interchangeable 
parts, none of 
which have played 
in every game.
These are the 
names you’ll hear over and 
over on New Year’s and Sun­
days in the future.
Sophomore Elijah Williams 
leads the team in rushing 
yards, yards per carry, and 
the race to be the next Emmitt 
Smith or Eric Rhett. Terry 
Jackson, a freshman, is not 
far behind and could surprise 
Nebraska. Although injured
most of the year, sophomore 
Fred Taylor, last year’s lead­
ing rusher, is yet another part 
of the young Gator offensive 
machine.
Danny Wuerffel leads the 
nation in quarterback rating, 
but his backup, Kresser, may 
be better. The juniors have 
combined for over 3,500 yards 
passing, or about two miles.
Senior Chris Doering, 
sophomore Ike Hilliard, and 
freshman Jacquez Green have 
caught most of those balls. 
Doering and Hilliard sport re­
spectable numbers including 
15 and 12 touchdowns respec-
tively in 11 games. Green is 
the playmaker, averaging29.9 
yards (the length of three 
buses) per catch and return­
ing kicks.
Kicking is the one thing 
Florida won’t do very much. 
They punted just 24 times all 
year, thanks to a third down 
conversion rate of 53 percent. 
The Gators only tried eight
field goals, and made only half.
The defense does not have 
any name players, but \ 
the job done. Though piling 
up only 27 sacks and captur­
ing few interceptions, thejj 
force fumbles and play good 
pass defense. Despite facing 
top-rated passers Steve 
Taneyhill, Danny Kanell, and 
Peyton Manning, they < 
surrendered 186.8 passing 
yards a game.
Passing is the one thing that 
Nebraska isn’t good at. They 
head into the matchup aver*; 
aging an anemic 156.5 yards 
a game. However, the nations, 
best running £ 
gives them a 399.1} 
yard per game boost.' 
Their backfield is even 
more versatile thai 
Florida’s, with five 
runners totaling more 
than 400 yards.
Another young 
player, freshma1 
Ahman Green 1 
the Comhuskersww 
1,086 yards and a nifty 
7.7 average. Success
from quarterbacj
Tommie Frazier is cruci 
because his fine footwork key1 
the option attack. Nebraska { 
kicker is accurate and exej 
cised with 13 of 16 field go3* 
and 69 of 72 possible extri 
points.
The ’Husker defense is keen 
holding opposing offenses to 
mere 78.4 yards an outinS 
Please see FIESTA, P
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans and Thiel squared off 
this past Friday at Skibo Gymna­
sium. When the smoke settled, Thiel 
College had to scrape itself off the 
floor and travel home while contem­
plating the 65-49 beating they suf­
fered at the hands of the Tartans.
Junior forward Kristen Kupfer led 
the charge for CMU for scoring and 
rebounding. She picked up 20 points 
and 13 rebounds on the evening. Jun­
ior guard Penny Summerville also 
made a serious mark on the 
scoreboard with 12 points and 10 
boards. With 10 points and seven 
rebounds, sophomore forward Katie 
O’Leary made her contribution to the 
Tartans’ cause. Another sophomore, 
guard Marcelle Steele, played well, 
scoring seven points.
Before Thanksgiving break, 
Carnegie Mellon played their first 
UAA opponent of the season, Case 
Western Reserve University. CMU 
picked up its only loss of the season, 
losing to Case, 75-60. Kupfer again 
led the team with 20 points and eight 
rebounds. Junior center Rebecca 
McCadney also pulled down eight 
rebounds. Summerville scored 16 
points, and junior guard Kelly Gaitens 
scored 10 points on the evening.
Editor
Kelly Gaitens (#32) goes up for a jump 
shot in the Tartans’ win over Thiel.

---------------------------------------------------

Y T¥TT% T ADQDQQIEHEM1DQ
LlVllSVj
CMU lesbigay community strives for unity
Duane Williams, a Robotics Institute employee, Conal Ho, a junior English major, Tom Lawrence, a masters MechE student, and Kristen Dunkle, an employee 
of the Associate Provost for Academic Projects, are all out and on display.
Queer students work toward visibility
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Calendar Editor
“Queer, faggot, queen, flamer, anti-breeder, 
sister, cake bdy, stone butch, dyke, and the list 
goes on,” said Tucker Christon, a senior drama 
major at CMU. “And you can’t forget my favor­
ite: disco-dancing, latte-sipping, Oscar Wilde- 
reading, Barbara-Streisand-ticket-holding, 
friend of Dorothy. It’s from Clueless. I love it.” 
While Christon laughs at the various slang 
terms used to describe homosexuality, stereo­
types are, in fact, one of the many concerns of 
gay, lesbian, and bisexual students, faculty, and 
staff at Carnegie Mellon.
“I’ve had a positive experience in my four 
years at CMU, but I think students here often 
group gays together,” he said. “Just like snow­
flakes, there are no two gays alike.”
Christon’s opinion seems to be the consensus 
around campus, in that CMU is predominantly 
a gay-friendly environment.
“People in my program have been very sup­
portive,” said Laura Franz, a first-year gradu­
ate student in communication, planning, and 
design. “They’ve taken me at face value.”
“I’ve think I’ve had an easy time of it in my 
department,” said Christon, “ But I think that 
CFA is a clandestine world. Things might not be 
so easy in other departments.”
Most lesbigay students share his sentiment in 
perceiving tolerance as dependent upon specific 
colleges and majors. “Coming out to my friends 
was fairly easy, but the people that I am sur­
rounded by are generally intellectually-oriented 
people,” said Paul Marcelin, a junior logic and 
computation major. “If I’ve ever felt anything 
negative, it was from acquaintances.”
“I think it’s hard to judge the attitude of 
students one way or the other because they seem 
very apathetic toward [homosexuality ] one way 
or the other,” said Tom Lawrence, a first-year 
graduate student in MechE. “ I think it’s a live- 
and-let-live outlook because people are too busy 
to get involved.”
As a worker in one of the more gay-friendly 
offices on campus, Kristin Dunkle considers 
herself lucky to have found such a niche at CMU. 
“I work in the Associate Provost office for Aca­
demic Projects, and anywhere else in Warner 
Hall, I wouldn’t think of being out ofthe closet,” 
she said. “There are pockets of tolerance around 
this school.”
Although students at CMU tend to be accept­
ing of other sexual lifestyles, many feel that
silent misconceptions still exist. “I’ve sensed 
many stereotypes people create of bisexuals,” 
said Dunkle. “We’re confused, promiscuous, con­
fused — it’s a phase. When people are silent 
about their views, it’s hard to educate them.” 
Stereotypes of lesbian, gay, and bisexual stu­
dents don’t hold up at CMU, due in part to the 
diverse nature of the gay subculture found on 
campus. “The gay community here is strange,” 
said Christon. “I would say that a subculture 
doesn’t even exist.”
“There are many different factions of gay stu­
dents on campus. You have the cmuOUT mem­
bers and the drama groups — I can’t say there is 
one stereotype of the CMU gay,” he said.
Around campus, gay students don’t usually 
flock together, according to many students within 
the gay community. Christon said, “Ninety-five 
percent of my friends are straight women. As for 
the drama crowd, there’s this really flamboyant 
group of gay freshmen, who run around kissing 
each other and making their sexuality very 
obvious to everyone. It can be obnoxious.”
“I’m pretty frustrated with the gay community 
on campus at times because there are a lot of gay 
people on campus but none of them intermingle,” 
said Conal Ho, a junior history and English 
major. “CFA people stay in CFA and don’t come 
to cmuOUT meetings.”
Franz finds that CMU is a lonely place for 
lesbians, and has yet to meet another one on 
campus. “ I haven’t found many opportunities to 
meet other lesbians, but that could be because 
I’m new to the area,” she said. “Judging who is 
gay by the number of people that are out, I would 
say that I know of 10 other lesbian, gay, and 
bisexual students on campus.”
Freshman music major Ray Edwards Stephens 
suggested an all-gay floor in one of the dormito­
ries on campus as a way to help relations among 
gay students. “Not to segregate, but to provide a 
support mechanism within housing,” he said. 
“During pre-college I lived with a very closed- 
minded Indian student who gave me a hard 
time. I put a pink triangle on the door.” 
Stephens hasn’t found CMU to be characteris­
tically positive or negative toward homosexual­
ity. “I’ll respect your life and choices if you do the 
same — I think that the students here abide by 
that.”
Stephens wishes there were more venues to 
meet gay students on campus. “ I want to get to 
know that little drama group, but there’s no 
place or opportunity to do so comfortably,” he 
said.Organizations like cmuOUT and ALLIES
try to provide that outlet, yet fail to do so 
effectively, according to some students. “ 
[C]muOUT is too activist-oriented, and I don’t 
want to project gay people as being special. I 
don’t think that it’s a popular gay organization,” 
said Christon.
[CJmuOUT was one of the main reasons 
Lawrence chose to attend CMU, but he was 
disappointed to find that it barely existed on 
campus. “I think that cmuOUT can be a place 
where we can all get together and stand up to 
intolerance. We’re mainly a social group, unless 
you count painting the fence pink a radical 
political statement,” he said.
ALLIES acts as more of a support group for 
both homosexual and non-homosexual students 
and is perceived as less threatening than 
cmuOUT. “ALLIES is the most visible, and de­
pending on how and when a person comes out, 
and how comfortable they are in each setting, 
none, or both of these groups might be a good fit,” 
said Donna Riley, a graduate student in EPP.
One of the main concerns that such groups are 
trying to attack on campus is the domestic part­
ners issue, which Dunkle says is a major dis­
crepancy in CMU’s non-discrimination policy. 
The University does not provide health or life 
insurance for the partners of lesbigay employees 
as well as other benefits such as disability or a 
decreased tuition rate.
“MIT, Harvard, and Dartmouth provide these 
benefits, and CMU always compares itself to 
these schools,” she said.
“I should be able to love who I want and get the 
same rights as everyone else,” said Gwendolyne 
Wood, the Assistant to the Associate Provost for 
Academic Projects. Riley feels that individual 
students might deal with other specific issues, 
from losing ROTC scholarships due to discrimi­
natory policies to being typecast in the drama 
department because of sexual preference. A gay 
fraternity member might fear rejection from his 
brothers, as well as other close friends.
“I think the biggest issue for gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual students at CMU is visibility, espe­
cially for women,” said Riley. “If you aren’t 
connected with a campus group then it is very 
difficult to identify or meet other gay people.”
For students such as Christon, marking out 
gay students as a separate identity is not neces­
sary. “I don’t want to make a difference, I just 
want to be gay,” he said. “If there isn’t a strong 
dating scene within the homosexual commu­
nity, it’s just representative of any dating scene 
on this campus.”
Homosexuality:
Viewpoints from the world's 
greatest minds
"Wickedness is a myth invented 
by good people to account for the 
curious attractiveness of others."
— Oscar Wilde
"We will fail to eveolve in our un­
derstanding of human sexuality if 
we continue to see homosexuals, as 
"heterosexuals-in-reverse," ignoring 
the vast diversity actually repre­
sented by society's many varied ex­
pressions of love between people."
— Margaret Mead
^plPlPISHIFF' 7\"1 do not in the least uncteresti- 
iMte bisexuality ... I expect it to 
provKje all further ^¿rilighien- 
ment."\ ::r-iW
v*— Sigmund Freud
"Without community there is no 
liberation, only the vulernable and 
temporary armistice between an in­
dividual and her oppression. But 
community must not meanshedding 
of our differences, nor the pathetic 
pretense that these differences don't 
exist ... it is learning how to stand 
alone, unpopular and sometimes re­
viled, and how to make common 
cause with those others also identi­
fied as outside the structures, in or­
der to define and seek a world in 
which we can all fourish. It is learn­
ing how to take our differences and 
make them strengths."
— Audre Lorde

---------------------------------------------------

eassaS ElNSaAEalsT,
JoEEon drff/t
vi*'»' ^ jé.
s* V:'"
«> ¦ >
\ v >>
' ¿F^ II BEST CATCH OF THE GAME
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring.
Experienced pizza makers needed.
682-7272
PAPA
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
I--------------------T
One 16" Extra j Large One Topping J
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
10"0ne Topping 
& 2 Cokes
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breodsticks
99$7” i $11” «5" $7i 
i 
i
j Additional toppings SI .00 each 
. Not valid with any olher coupon 
- I Valid only at participating stores
- Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
. Not valid with any olher coupon 
I Valid only at participating stores
(Mon. - Thurs. 1 lom-4pm, 9pm*close) 
Additional toppings $.70 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores j
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
FidelityInvestments
We're almost there. 
Fidelity Investments’ 
will be on campus on 
Thursday, December 
7th. This could be the 
first step in your 
terrific career path. 
Intrigued? We hope so. 
If you're a dynamic, 
hard-working 
individual with an 
entrepreneurial spirit, 
there could be a place 
for you at Fidelity.
If you're interested, 
come talk to us.
The program is designed for those who wish to use their systems expertise to support our 
business objectives. Fidelity Investments is committed to advanced technology encompassing 
the latest development tools, systems upgrades, and leading-edge applications.
HUMANITIES
----------- and------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
¦ CamegieMellon ¦The, Pizw :
ATTENTION H&SS SENIORS, & 
OTHERS DOINQ H&SS
Calend r.La14s
Imagine that someone offered you $7500 and from six months 
to a year to study something that has interested you for a long 
time, that excites you a lot, and that would require travel 
abroad in one or more cultures different from your own. 
Would that interest you, and what would you do?
Study/Travel
Fellowship
can make this possible for you.
The H&SS Alumni Study/Travel Fellowship seeks to enable a bachelor’s 
candidate of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study and 
travel abroad following graduation. One Fellow will be selected this year, 
and will receive a grant of $7500 for travel and study abroad during a pe­
riod of six months to a year following their college graduation. This fellow­
ship may be used to supplement other funding sources.
Eligible students include H&SS seniors, and non-H&SS seniors with an 
H&SS double major. Applications due: February 15, 1996. Candidate in­
terviews: Late February, 1996. Fellow selected: early March, 1996.
Additional information (including application materials):
Available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.
Contact person: Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS.
Let's get down to business.
Consider FIDELITY.
Thursday, December 7 at 7:00 p.m. 
Student Center, Room 208 
Business Casual Attire 
Refreshments
Systems Associates Program
The Systems Organizations of Fidelity Investments* provides development, operations, and 
technology services to the business units of Fidelity Investments. We are currently recruiting 
graduating seniors for a select number of positions in the Systems Organizations Associate 
Program. The program provides an Associate with four rotational assignments over a 24- 
month period in various system areas. Associates will work with information-systems solu­
tions across multiple technological platforms. Extensive business and technical training will 
be provided in addition to the regular day-to-day job responsibilities.
Fidelity Investments is committed to creating a diversified environment, and proud to be an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H;N
Ryan White lecture educates CMU about AIDS
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday, Jeanne White- 
Ginder spoke about the legacy of 
her son, Ryan White, who died of 
AIDS in 1990. The lecture, which 
took place in Porter Hall Room 
100, was the first of many local 
events commemorating World 
AIDS Day [December 1]. It was 
sponsored by area universities 
such as CMU and the University 
of Pittsburgh.
The lecture was presented to 
the CMU community by AB Lec­
tures.
Jill Goodall, a senior psychol-
AIDS. As a mom, I was not pre­
pared to deal with this. But I had 
no choice. This disease called 
AIDS changed my life.”
Ryan was given six to eight 
months to live. His mother told 
him he had AIDS the day after 
Christmas in 1984. He was 13 
years old.
However, unlike most children 
his age, he was well informed of 
the terrifying disease due to the 
fact that he often read Time 
magazine. He responded to his 
mother’s news with courage. He 
said, “Mom, let’s just pretend I 
don’t have it. I want to go on with 
my life. I don’t want to worry that
“AIDS is not a gay/drug user disease. Anyone 
can get AIDS, it doesn’t matter if you’re rich or 
poor, gay or straight, young or old. You are at 
risk.”
— Jeanne White-Ginder, Ryan White’s mother.
ogy major and AB Lectures Chair I’m sick. I don’t want to make this 
felt that the program would be an a big deal.” 
ideal way to promote 
AIDS awareness at 
CMU.“I think this will 
give people an under­
standing of what Ryan 
White went through. It 
should be an emotional 
experience and I think 
that it takes strong emo­
tion to provoke a true 
awareness. Ms. White is 
an inspiring lecturer. She 
has devoted her life to pro­
moting AIDS awareness among 
young people. I believe that stu­
dents will come away with a 
strong sense of how uneducated 
some people can be and hope­
fully, we can make strides to­
ward changing that,” she said.
The evening’s program began 
with a short Video that captured 
the trauma Ryan White endured 
for five and a half years.
mined mother was not willing to 
give up. She went to court and 
soon Ryan White was a house­
hold name throughout the coun­
try.
Though White-Ginder was un­
der the misconception that one 
court hearing would be Ryan’s 
ticket back to school, the case 
was postponed time and time 
again. The dismayed Ryan told 
his mother, “They’re hoping I’ll 
die and not have to deal with this. 
They think that I’ll just go away.”
WTiite-Ginder said, “Ryan had 
another idea. He was not going to 
die. He was going to live and 
educate them.”
Ryan began speaking about 
AIDS and his struggles with the
Living in Kokomo, Indiana, a
The rest of the world thought 
otherwise. Word of Ryan White 
and AIDS spread quickly 
throughout Kokomo. After all, his 
was the first case of AIDS in 
Indiana, and people knew very 
little about the disease in 1984. 
He was tormented in school as 
well as made the butt of jokes.
He was called a “queer” and 
“faggot” and was looked upon with 
great disdain by his fellow towns-
disease throughout the nation, 
giving lectures and appearing on 
talk shows such as Donahue and 
Good Morning America. Finally, 
a judge who had no intention of future with a certain peace of 
bringing the case to court, al- mind.
AIDS awareness convention at 
the Super Dome for 10,000 teach­
ers.
He had longlasting friendships 
with Michael Jackson and Elton 
John. Jackson wrote a song in his 
memory entitled “Gone too Soon” 
and created a music video that 
captures the triumphs and 
struggles of Ryan White’s life. 
Elton John gave him a benefit 
and described him as an example 
of “tremendous courage and tre­
mendous dignity.” White died on 
April 8,1990.
During her presentation, 
White-Ginder emphasized that 
anyone can get AIDS and that 
everyone should take the neces­
sary precautions to protect them­
selves from the dis­
ease. She urged her 
audience to practice 
safe sex. She said, 
“AIDS is not a gay/ 
drug user disease. 
Anyone can get 
AIDS. It doesn’t 
matter if you’re rich 
or poor, gay or 
straight, young or 
old. You are at 
risk.”
Though the premature death 
of her son from this tragic disease 
will never be less significant to 
White-Ginder, she looks to the
Give comics as gifts
flfxrrÁ
town plagued with ignorance of people. The Whites were banned
the disease and fear of those who 
have AIDS, White was banned 
from attending his school. But 
the determined White refused to 
be victimized by the hatred and 
prejudice of his fellow towns­
people; he would fight to educate 
them, as well as everyone else in 
the world, until the day he died.
White was diagnosed with he­
mophilia shortly after birth. To 
combat his condition, he under­
went two treatments of the drug 
“Factor 8” each week.
One day after experiencing ex-
from restaurants, ridiculed in 
public, and harassed in the pri­
vacy of their own home.
The good Christian people of 
Kokomo would not even shake 
Ryan’s hand on Easter Sunday in 
church. He was asked to use sepa­
rate facilities such as bathrooms 
and water fountains. Soon 
enough, the concerned citizens of 
Kokomo banned Ryan from at­
tending school.
White-Ginder said, “I asked 
Ryan one day, ‘How do you keep 
from not getting angry with them?
treme fatigue from coming off of How do you do it?’ He said, ‘Mom,
his school bus, he became unusu­
ally ill.
His temperature exceeded 104 
degrees, and he was having great 
difficulty breathing. Three days 
later, on December 6, 1984, he 
was diagnosed with AIDS.
White-Ginder was shocked. She 
said, “I was certain they made a 
mistake. How could my son have 
AIDS? He never had a blood trans­
fusion. Only people who have
they’re just trying to protect their 
own kids, just like you’re trying 
to protect me.’”
With time, Ryan became rest­
less and bored without school. 
White-Ginder said, “It killed me 
to watch him sit in front of the 
television for hours every day. I 
said to myself, ‘God, why is such 
a great mind just wasting away?’” 
White-Ginder called the school 
and asked if Ryan could go back,
blood transfusions get AIDS. If but the local Board of Health de- 
you do something bad, you get nied her request. But the deter-
classified
lowed Ryan to go back to school.
White-Ginder said, “We 
thought we had won, but we had 
not. The prejudice was still there. 
People- wanted a 100 percent 
guarantee that they were safe. 
Ryan said to me, ‘Mom, can’t they 
see that we don’t get 100 percent 
guarantees? Life just doesn’t work 
that way.’”
As a result of their bigotry, 
classmates took it upon them­
selves to vandalize Ryan’s locker 
and books. In the spring of1986, 
Ryan became very ill. Doctors 
believed he was going to die. 
White-Ginder said, “I did not 
want him to die in Kokomo. I 
wanted it to be in a happier place. 
Kokomo needed a break from us, 
as much as we needed a break 
from Kokomo.”
Miraculously, Ryan became 
well again, and the White family 
was offered the chance to sell 
their story for a made-for-TV 
movie called The Ryan White 
Story. Ryan agreed but under 
one condition — he was to be on 
location during the entire filming 
of the movie. The family moved to 
Cicero, Indiana where the Whites 
were welcomed with open arms.
Ryan continued to travel 
throughout the country for four 
years educating people about 
AIDS. He was the speaker at an
“We asked God for miracles, 
and I thought I’d get one. My 
miracle is that I’ll see my son one 
day, and he won’t have hemo­
philia and he won’t have AIDS,” 
she said.White-Ginder has 
worked with Senators Kennedy 
and Hatch to get the Ryan White 
care bill passed.
She currently travels across the 
country speaking to a number of 
audiences with the aspiration of 
educating those who will listen.
Comic Book 
Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
This semester is wrapping 
up quickly, so I’m dedicating 
my final column of the year to 
holiday shopping. Here’s a list 
of gifts for comic book readers 
to clip and pass on to whomever 
might be buying them gifts this 
year. Feel free to purchase them 
for your favorite columnist, too.
Understanding Comics — 
Scott McCloud’s scholarly look 
at comics is a must for any fan’s 
bookshelf. It’s as researched 
and detailed as a history text­
book but it’s in comic form. Es­
pecially recommended to fans 
of McCloud’s Zot! Available at 
most book store chains for 
$19.95.
Subscription to Comic Book 
Buyer’s Guide — The most 
comprehensive magazine about 
comics is perfect for the vet­
eran collector or someone who 
is just starting. It features the 
best reviews of a wide variety 
of books and columns by pros 
like Peter David and Tony 
Isabella. Subscriptions start at 
$19.95.
MarvelMasterworks —They 
are out of print just like every­
thing else worth reading from 
Marvel, but they are worth the 
search. The originals are out of 
most people’s price range but 
here’s a chance to own the first 
appearances of Spider-Man, 
Captain America, and the other
classics. Available at comic spe­
cialty shops for $34.95.
Comic supplies — It’s like get­
ting socks and dnderwear but 
any collector will appreciate a 
new storage box or some bags 
and boards. Available at comic 
shops and some toy stores from 
$4.95 to $6.95.
J.R.R. Tolkien’s Lord of the 
Rings in hard cover — It might 
not be a comic but Tolkien has 
influenced just about everyone 
who ever wrote comics. Avail­
able at most book store chains for 
$29.95.
Cerebus phone books — No, it 
doesn’t have phone numbers but 
they reprint the best black and 
white series. Get the most recent 
one, Women, or start at the be­
ginning with Cerebus. Available 
at comic specialty shops, from 
$17 to $35.
Sandman hard covers — Even 
if you have the issues already, 
this is one series that should be 
preserved for posterity. Available 
at comic specialty shops for 
$29.95.
Big Book of... —You can choose 
from Weirdos, Death, Conspira­
cies, or Urban Legends. Truly 
quirky but true stories from a 
variety of writers and artists. 
Available at most book store 
chains fro $12.95.So/ie hard 
covers.These are comic books for 
people who only like comic strips. 
Available at comic specialty shops 
for $19.95.
Star Wars Trilogy — Once 
again, it’s not a comic book bu,t it 
will still fit. Also, if you don’t get 
them before January 1,1996, you 
won’t ever get them. At least that’s 
20th Century Fox’s marketing 
ploy. Available just about every­
where for $49.95.
Jason Andracki, is a juiiior 
professional writing major.
licy.TN
North Oakland — Renovated 
'arge 1 br, suitable for 2, new 
appliances, wall to wall carpet, 
central a/c, laundry in building, 
parking available, walk to 
university & hospital, intercom 
entry. $525 & $550. Call 795- 
5845.
North Oakland — Large 4 
bedroom, completely reno- 
Vated, all new kitchen and 
bathroom, new appliances, 
central a/c, laundry in building, 
parking available, walk to 
Ompus. $1100+. 795-5845.
JOBS
Wanted! Individual, student 
organizations to promote Spring 
freak. Earn money and free 
triPS- Call Inter-Campus Pro­
grams. at (800)-327-6013 or 
http://www.lcpt.com.
Reliable person sought to use 
0ur snowblower and shovel to
clear 4-car lot and sidewalk on 
regular basis. Call Kelley at the 
Appletree Bed and Breakfast in 
Shadyside, located 1 1 /2 blocks 
from Walnut Street, 661-0631.
Earn $500 - $1000 weekly 
stuffing envelopes. For details, 
rush $1.00 with SASE to: Group 
Five, 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 
307, Dover, DE 19901.
Part-time programmer needed. 
Must be experienced in Novell 
network and SBT software. Call 
672-2300. Ask for Marian.
SERVICES
Money for College! Thousands of 
grants available to all students. 
Immediate qualification. Call 1 - 
800-270-2744.
TRAVEL
Spring Break 1996. Travel Free!! 
Jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas, 
Panama City, Daytona, Padre. 
Great Low, low prices. Free trip
on only 15 sales. Call for a free 
information packet! Sun Splash 
Tours 1 -800-426-7710.
Spring Break '96 — Sell trips, 
earn cash & go free!! Student 
Travel Services is now hiring 
campus representatives. Cancún 
from $399, Jamaica from $439, 
Florida from $99. Call 1-800-648- 
4849 .
Classified Rates
1-20 words.............$8.00/wk
21-50 words...........$10.00/wk
51-100 words.......$13.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
MOCA
PITTSBURGH
YOHJI YAMAMOTO 
DOLCE & GABBANA 
COMME DES GARCONS 
COSTUME HOMME 
MOSCHINO 
PAUL SMITH 
BOSS 
HUGO 
INDUSTRIA 
SO
JOHN BARTLETT 
KATHARINE HAMNETT
Students receive 
120% off any | purchase Dec. 4th thru Dec. 15th 
with valid student ID
5401 Walnut St. • Shadysid

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
Registration to go on-line
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
Imagine what course registra­
tion would be like without the 
long waits in lines, without hav- 
ingto flip through the course cata­
log, without having to run around 
to several different offices to 
gather signatures, without spend­
ing hours ensuring that degree 
requirements are fulfilled in time, 
and without filling out a Regis­
tration/Add/Drop (RAD) form or 
having to visit the HUB or the 
Registrar.
Next, imagine receiving mean­
ingful academic advising to fig-
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
lire out which courses to take 
and in what order to take them so 
that degree requirements and 
personal course preferences are 
fulfilled. Finally, imagine being 
able to do all this right from any 
computer that can connect to 
CMU’s vast computer network.
In a few years, this utopian 
vision of registration could be a 
reality here at CMU. Electronic 
registration and advising is still 
in the planning and 
conceptualization stage and is 
scheduled to be implemented 
campus wide here at CMU in the 
spring of 1997.
: EricGrotzinger, associate dean 
of MCS, said, “I’m quite excited 
about it. There are a lot of flaws 
right now [with the present reg­
istration system] ... it’s inefficient. 
But with a nice on-line registra­
tion, you’d save a lot of time. 
Students won’t have to skip 
classes. You could do it [register 
for classes] right from your dorm 
room, eleven o’clock at night when 
all the offices are closed.”
Recommended by the enroll­
ment reengineering team in the 
summer of 1995, the electronic 
registration and advising projects 
as well as the HUB and electronic 
grades are a part of CMU’s effort 
to design a new administrative 
system from “ground zero,” cre­
ating something completely new 
rather than using the existing 
system as a basis with which to 
work. “I think we’re doing this to 
improve the services we give to 
our students,” said Grotzinger.
Bill Elliott, vice president of 
enrollment, describes the present 
stage of the project as “construc­
tive pushing back and forth,” 
where it is being passed to differ­
ent departments for'them to in­
ject new ideas and suggestions as 
well as to lay out their require­
ments of the project. After the 
start of the second semester in 
January 1996, the proposals will 
be passed to the Enrollment 
Reengineering Team.
The team will make specifica­
tions and then start writing the 
code. In November 1996, one or 
two of CMUs schools will try out 
the electronic registration and ad­
vising for 1997’s spring course 
registration. The final campus 
wide implementation of the pro­
gram is scheduledfor April 1997, 
for spring course registra­
tion.
“This would be 
much more than 
touch-tone regis­
tration,” said 
Elliott. Elec­
tronic advising 
would be avail­
able to all stu­
dents. He said 
that electronic 
advising would 
be able to play 
“what if’ games. 
“If you were a 
third-semester com­
puter science student going 
into architecture, it would tell 
you what courses you would need 
to take and when you would fin­
ish with your degree,” said 
Elliott. “In any systems which 
students register on-line, we need 
checks and balances. Later on, 
that registration process could 
be cued to the student’s advisor, 
who could check for abnormali­
ties ... students could still get 
adequate human advising,” said 
Grotzinger.
Also, later on, a course optimi­
zation program would be planned 
and implemented. This would 
solve many of the course schedul­
ing conflicts, possibly by allow­
ing students to first select the 
courses they want to take. It 
would also schedule the times for 
the classes.
“I’m pretty excited about it. It’s 
not the case of automating what 
we have, but to change the way 
we do business — to change the 
way people think ... and that’s 
the hardest part,” said Elliott.
Andrew Wang is a sophomore 
CS/ECE major.
Fascism has negative impact on feminism
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
When you warn people about 
the danger of something, you 
not only create awareness of 
the potential problem, but you 
also define the problem, which 
may have been better off unde­
fined. I face this dilemma this 
week because I am going to 
write about fascism and its im­
plications on feminism. It’s a 
dilemma, because fascism car­
ries a strong pejorative conno­
tation that tends to make people 
feel uncomfortable.
After all, no one wants to be 
called a fascist pig, let alone 
deal with one. But feeling un­
comfortable and fear are cata­
lysts of each other. It is impor­
tant not to let the negativity of 
both provide a path for either.
To begin, we should define 
fascism. I looked it up in sev­
eral dictionaries and this is 
what I basically found: Fas­
cism is a political philosophy 
that promotes dictatorship of 
the political right through com­
bining state and consumer 
power, glorifying nationalism, 
and championing racism.
Obviously, control is a major 
tenet of fascism. Fascists exer­
cise control through people’s in­
securities and fears, especially 
the fear of change.
So nationalism and tradition­
alism reassure people that they 
are good and that their lifestyles 
are “right”; therefore, variance 
and individualism are played 
down to the point that everyone’s 
roles and values are defined for 
them. This is where fascism con­
flicts with feminism.
As you can imagine, fascists do 
not champion feminism as an ide­
ology because it attacks the belief 
that women have only two roles 
to fulfill, those of wife and mother. 
It is important to note that femi­
nism does not say women should 
not be wives and mothers, but 
that it attacks the notion that 
women should only be wives and 
mothers.
Because fascism is an extreme 
philosophy of the right, “family 
values” are emphasized; so fol­
lowing tradition, men are the 
breadwinners and women are the 
homemakers.
Under this system both men 
and women’s roles are being con­
trolled. Because women do not 
work they cannot contribute any 
economic resources to the family 
so the men must earn all the 
money.
This is certainly a heavy bur­
den that restricts men’s volition. 
If they have to take care of a 
family, they have to find and 
maintain a job that pays enough 
money. So chances are high that
they will end up in a boring and 
arduous job that they don’t enjoy.
Furthermore, by insisting on 
such rigid roles for women and 
men, the two sexes are separated 
and essentially live and dwell in 
two separate spheres: women in 
the private realm and men in the 
public realm.
With such a division in their 
lives, how can women and men 
fully appreciate and share their 
experiences? How can they un­
derstand one another?
Fascism’s tenet of racism can­
not be omitted from discussion. 
The struggles of feminism and 
racism usually relate and some­
times overshadow each other. 
Though without the Civil Rights 
movement the second wave of 
feminism might never have 
resurged, many African-Ameri- 
cans have complained that femi­
nism, by becoming initially a 
white, middle-class movement, in 
turn, took away the importance 
and immediacy of the Civil Rights 
movement.
Fascism has many faces and 
thrives by pitting people against 
each other. This is exemplified by 
the fact that where there is rac­
ism there is usually sexism; so, 
while fascism is implicitly anti­
feminist, it is overtly racist.
Fascism may seem like a politi­
cal movement in the past that 
died out with Hitler and 
Mussolini, but fascist elements 
continue to exist today. “Family 
values” has been one of the main 
campaign slogans for many can­
didates in the United States.
At first, this may seem harm­
less and even good that politi­
cians care about such things, 
but in promoting family values 
they are promoting their idea 
of what “family values” should 
be. For instance, are homosexu­
als’ “family values” recognized? 
Or what about abortion, is abor­
tion a “family value”?
Ideally, the First Amend­
ment provides us with free­
dom of speech and religion and 
the volition to determine what 
this means.
Though the ultimate decider 
of constitutional rights is the 
Supreme Court, in a fascist 
society our “rights” would come 
already defined. However, 
many Americans fall through 
the cracks of our constitutional 
rights, i.e. all women, minority 
men, and the poor. Did the 
police think about Gammage’s 
constitutional rights before 
they beat him to death? Does 
Bob Dole think about the rights 
of welfare mothers? Did the 
naval officers in the Tailhook 
scandal think about the rights 
of the women they assaulted?
It is important to remember 
that our freedoms extend to 
everyone, even those who wish 
to limit others. By becoming 
aware of their ideologies and 
the implications of their ide­
ologies, we hope to prevent 
their hegemony and maintain 
our individual freedoms.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior 
English major.
Need Airport Transportation?
AIRPORT
EXPRESS
AIRLINES TRANSPORTATION COMPANY
Centrally Located in the Baggage Claim Area of Airport
Serving CMU from Webster Hall 
and Holiday Inn
Least Expensive Fares 
Most Convienent 
Most Reliable
Shuttle service to and from 
Pittsburgh International Airport 
Departure Points
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH-AII major Hotels
For schedule Information & "Reservations 
Call: (412) 471-8900 or (412) 471-2250
Need To Charter?
47 Passenger Coaches & 21 Vans are available for all occasions 
For Details Call: (412) 471-8900
GRUNGE.DIRTCHEAP.
Cancel the flight to Seattle, 
because we've got music 
that's grungier than your 
oldest pair ofBVDs.
It's a very hip selection of 
new and used CDs. plus rare 
releases and imports.
So drop by CD Trader and 
check-it out. Because 
at our prices, you could 
really clean up.
| [TRADER. Used CDs At Record Prices 
201 South Craig St., Oakland. 687-6626
FUTURE SOUNDS
¡P> Import and Domestic CD's & Vinyl for less!
specializing in:
dance, techno, progressive house, 
hi-nrg, trance, ambient, industrial, 
& 80's retro
2141 Ardmore Boulevard 
Suite 2. Second Floor • 
Pittsburgh. PA 15221
PleasS ENAT, pgA5pTTA
Everyone Welcome
Albright United 
Methodists
11am.
woxmi
Van Pickup at 10:40am 
Fortes Bus Slop
need
eXcuse to
get of P campus. ^«Ik SraWEOT ADVAHTA6£%
CARO AND 6ET
,15%
Hang out with your old friends. 
Take your laundry home, and 
eat some real food. Whatever 
the reason, when you get a 
Student Advantage Card, you can 
get away on Amtrak® for 15$ 
less. You won’t be crammed into 
a car with five other people.
Or stuck on a bus out in the
middle of nowhere. And your 
discount is good for travel on 
almost every Amtrak train.
To get a Student Advantage 
Card call 1-800-965Jondrf/ 
And to make reservations, 
call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-8005thJ5drMi/ 
Now stop making excuses.AMTRAK
D ?Oxdsse Jsuwsed WOcwmEed ammW me mOy umOy xmusc sKwsJd JstQ UmEu vssQWtr lsdumyOesus<suiOws» gEyxuuOWs teW amisuegsed xmusc/ (e 4Edm MutOe0 xOxdsse Jsuwsed WOcwmEed Oc ammW me tEdm xmus meyr/ (dUsu uscduOwdOmec gtr tJJyr/

---------------------------------------------------

Dan Rosenberg/tartan Photographer
MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
CMU volunteers create dramä, science clubs at area schools
In the Spotlight
by Dan Rosenberg
In the last two months, four 
CMU drama majors have per­
suaded 10 local middle school stu­
dents to hit each other with a 
rolled-up newspaper, act like ani­
mals, forgoing their inhibitions 
and their human characteristics, 
and build a machine — out of 
their own bodies.
These activities, as well as sev­
eral other exercises, are not un­
usual for the students in the 
Reizenstein Middle School After- 
school Drama Club, a weekly or­
ganization coordinated by David 
Folsom, Garret Mckechnie, Mia 
Wesley, and Beth Whitney, all 
sophomore drama majors. They 
enjoy working with the students, 
in part because of the enthusi­
asm the youths possess. 
Mckechnie said, “they have so 
much energy, and are very well- 
behaved,” while Wesley added 
that “they really responded well 
to a lot that we did.”
Some of the activities done in 
the drama club include “The 
Hunter and the Hunted,” a psy­
chological game of sight depriva­
tion in which blindfolded students 
search for a “baton” (the rolled up 
newspaper) and “hunt” for their 
opponent, trying to strike him or 
her with the paper; neutral dia­
logues; short scenes that feature 
topics as wide-ranging as saying 
“no” to having a bad hair day to 
the death of a child; improvisa- 
tional exercises; taking on the 
persona of an animal; tag; and 
“Zip-Zap-Zop,” an exercise that 
mandates intense concentration.
The students themselves thrive 
on the activities and truly admire 
their four instructors.When 
Whitney was unable to attend 
one session, all the kids expressed 
concern and lamented her ab­
sence.
Dwight Hardwick, a 
Reizenstein student, an animal 
lover who plays the clarinet, said 
that “I get along well with all 
[four CMU students],” and has 
formed an especially strong bond. 
with Mckechnie. Kiaira Pallard, 
who loves to act and sing, said, “I 
wish this club was every single 
day.”
In addition to the drama club, 
the East End Tutoring Program 
sponsors a science club at 
Reizenstein. Eddie Simon, a
Reizenstein student who fre­
quently and unabashedly pro­
claims his love for science, de­
scribed the club as “neat ... We 
learn a lot of stuff; it’s further 
instruction of what we learn in 
class ... (it) teaches us about sci­
entific literacy and the scientific 
process.”
Simon, who keeps club meet­
ings in his planner, also cam­
paigned successfully for club 
membership cards, which were 
presented to the.students before 
Thanksgiving.
Seth Weinberg shares his fel­
low participant’s enthusiasm for 
the science club and can often be 
heard exclaiming “This is cool!” 
in reaction to an experiment the 
students are. performing.
While most drama club partici­
pants are involved in the pro­
gram to improve their acting 
skills and to enjoy themselves, 
nearly all of the science club stu­
dents intend on pursuing a ca­
reer in the sciences.
Simon wants to be a scientist, 
although he is not sure in what 
field. Danny Collins is interested 
in robotics, while Peter 
Kerpedjiev and Todd Carson plan 
to utilize their computer skills 
when they enter the job market.
While it may seem premature 
for these children to know what 
they want to do with the rest of 
their lives, Simon has mentioned
Dan Rosenberg/Tartan Photographer 
Kirk Yenerall coordinates activities for East End tutors and tutees.
(and his peers agree) that co-cur- 
ricular organizations such as the 
science club “look good on a col­
lege application.”
The science club was initiated 
by Nadine Fattaleh, a doctoral 
student in the CMU chemistry 
department. Although she has 
not been able to attend club ses­
sions, Fattaleh has played a ntal 
role in the club’s creation.!She 
has helped plan club activiies 
and has purchased prizes for the 
students. i
Kirk Yenerall, who coordinates 
the East End Tutoring Program, 
said that “without Nadine’st in­
terest, the club may not have 
happened ... she has gone out of 
her way to help.”
The students who coordinate 
the club sessions are Ameeta
Madhava, a senior in ChemE; 
sophomore Calvin Lee, an ECE 
major; and Jenny Kwon, a sopho­
more in the humanities and the 
arts. Like their drama counter­
parts, these students enjoy work­
ing with their pupils.
Lee said that “seeing the kids’ 
reactions to what they’re doing... 
seeing them become so excited 
about what they’re doing - it’s a 
great feeling. I just like the kids 
- it’s fun to watch them and see 
how they think ... (they are) all 
pretty neat,” said Madhava.
The science club activities have 
covered many fields, including 
engineering, chemistry, and phys­
ics. They built bridges out of tooth­
picks; made slime; experimented 
with “oobleck,” a corn starch- 
based substance that readily un­
dergoes a phase change from liq­
uid to solid and vice versa when 
pressure is applied or reduced; 
and created a worm colony.
This is an exercise most stu­
dents cite as their favorite activ­
ity to date.
Unfortunately, according to 
Kerpedjiev, the worms drowned 
over their two week incubation 
period, resulting in the produc­
tion of a potent odor in the sci­
ence lab where the worms had 
resided.
This is the first semester that 
the East End Tutoring Program, 
an organization whose main fo­
cus is providing tutors to several 
local schools, has sponsored af- 
ter-school clubs.
Because of the success of the
drama and science clubs, how­
ever, the East End Program in­
tends not only to continue spon­
soring similar programs at- 
Reizenstein but also hopes to ex­
pand the after-school activities 
to local elementary schools.- 
Yenerall attributes this success 
to the aforementioned coordina­
tors.
He said, “Through CMU stu­
dents’ gifts of time and talent, 
they have helped to open new 
vistas for middle school kids as 
actors and actresses or scientists.”
F or more information about the 
East End Tutoring Program, con­
tact Kirk Yenerall at x8-8202.
Dan Rosenberg is a freshman , 
in the University Choice program...
Tutors Ameta Madhava, Jenny Kwon ready an experiment for the club.
(Not A Lot Of Money)
rERCEL MSRP Starting Under $10,500
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.
¡MSRP BASED ON TAX. TAGS. TITLE.'pREIGHT. OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE
®TOYOTAI Love What You Do For Mr
THE BACK TO SCHOOL
EXPERIENCEYOU’VE ALWAYS DREAMED OF!
IMAGINE!
Here is your chance to go back to that crazy 
School of yours, reminisce about your young am 
foolish youth in the halls, chill out with teached 
who you used to love and fear and even with some 
who used to tell you that you could never get into 
a school as good as CMU, and talk to students about 
your experiences here at Carnegie Mellon!
Interested?
Then you'll be perfect for the 
High School Ambassador Program.
Leave the rest up to us here at the Office of Admission! 
We will help you with all of the arrangements and 
information. All we need you to do is attend one of the 
following informational meetings.
WHEN?
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6 
THURSDAY, DEC. 7
6:30 PM TO 7:30 PM
at the Office of Admission (Warner Hall 100)
If you are unable to make either of the planned meetings, you must schedule an appoint- , 
merit with Trevor Rusert in the Office of Admission for a review of the program and to 
pick up materials. Just stop by the Office of Admission and make an appointment or call •
06R_9nR9 nr o.mnil MO
MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
MERIT AWARD • SPECIAL AWARD
Please help to honor MCS staff members by submitting your nomination for 
die MCS Merit Award. Nominations are also being solicited for the Special 
Award, described below.
One Merit Award, designed to salute excellence, is given each year to recog­
nize a staff member (or "team") who has shown outstanding meritorious ser­
vice to the College. (For the purpose of this award, "team" is defined as a 
group organized to work together.) In addition, the Awards Committee will 
review nominations for, and reserve the option to confer a Special Award to 
honor someone outside MCS for outstanding service to the College.
Nominations are solicited from the entire CMU community—including admin­
istrators, fellow staff members, faculty and students. (NOTE: Awards Com­
mittee members are not eligible to be a nominee or nominator.)
Nomination forms are available in the MCS Dean's Office and in each depart­
ment office, and should be submitted to Everett Tadefny, Whitfield Hall, or via 
e-mail to etl9@andrew.cmu.edu. You may submit more than one nomination. 
If your nominee from 1995 didn't win, feel free to re-submit their nomination 
for the 1996 awards.
THE DEADLINE FOR SUBMITTING NOMINATIONS IS FEBRUARY 15, 
1996.
Awards will be presented in spring 1996. If you have any questions or sugges­
tions, please bring them to the attention of Sue Haslett, Awards Committee 
Chair. Your support of this program promotes excellence in MCS.
THE MCS STAFF RECOGNITION AWARDS COMMITTEE:
Valerie Bridges, Chemistry Patsy McCarthy, Mathematics
Helena Frey, Biological Sciences Elvira Prologo, PSC
Sue Haslett, MCS Dean's Office Everett Tademy, EEO/AA (ex-officio)
Francine Johnson, Mathematics

---------------------------------------------------

»31(0
DILBERT
fAY PASSWORD FOR THE 
NETWORK, ISN'T WORKING
FILL OUT A 
A HELP REQUEST ; 
ONLINE, f
71/
I CAN’T GET ONLINE 
BECAUSE fAY PASSWORD 
DOESN'T WORK...
SEND AN 
E-ttAIL MESSAGE 
ABOUT IT.
x can't send e-Kail 
BE.CAU5E. I CAXT 
rST ON THE STINKIN' 
Xetuork'"
fSEEZ, YOU'RE
7^WORTHLESS... J
V n__­InBr
;kJH'T£! 1-7 -l_£V
I— -JM - - 1 NA^ri ii m ^ hh i
IUDSBY HIROMI HASEGAWA ||

---------------------------------------------------

TIME
-tiAe 1 DRtu).., ,,
O
iGHLANPeR TURKEY.
G0&^e
\
Kevin Cnoy
UfHHHeuu
©m5
Wflir
GP06NIN&
y<>»
For centuries, Ancient Choson Federation governed Korea- 
Manchuria region. It was a tribal alliance system with economy based on 
bronze culture and politics managed by shamanic priests. However, 
introduction of iron processing technology and Chinese imperial expan­
sion triggered population shifts and social chaos throughout Korea- 
Manchuria region. The Federation collapsed. A new alignment of power

---------------------------------------------------

WAREHOUSE SALE
Fashions from the pages of the^rCrew catalog 
discounted 50%-70%
December 13-16, 9am-9pm 
December 17, 9am-5pm
The Pittsburg ExpoMart FREE ADMISSION Open to die Publi^^^
¡.We accept VISA, MasterCard. American Express ', J.Crew CiedS&Ca&fc, 
personal checks (with proper identification).
Directions: From the PA Turnpike (1-76): Take Exit 6, follow Busin&ss Route; 
to Monroeville Mall/ExpoMart.
From the Parkway East (1-376): Take Exit 14 to Business Qoute £2. Follow si
Inroeville. Follow signs
Monroeville Mall/ExpoMart
m UNIVERSITY CA
iifd3.o.1d
Graduate Study in Electrical Engineering
Are you interested in conducting leading edge research?
Are you concerned about funding opportunities?
As one of the hottest small departments in Electrical Engineering, we invite 
you to apply to our graduate programs leading to master's and doctoral 
degrees. Our recent graduates are working for major corporations including 
IBM, Bellcore and DuPont, and are teaching at respected U.S. universities.
Research facilities include a class 10 cleanroom for semiconductor 
processing and a world class multimedia lab with 24 new SGI workstations 
connected by an ATM network.
The Department is part of the recently announced ARL’s Federated 
Laboratory in Telecommunications.
Approximately 85% of all full-time students receive funding in the form of 
teaching/research assistantships, fellowships, or tuition awards.
New funding is available for graduate student research in:
• multimedia systems • computer networks
• neuromorphic systems • parallel architecture
• SiGeC heterostructures • interconnect modeling
• scanning probe spectroscopy • terahertz spectroscopy
• photonic devices & networks • wireless communication
For more information contact:
Department of Electrical Engineering/S 
University of Delaware 
Newark, DE 19716
Call Us: 302/831-2405 
See Us! http://www.eecis.udel.edu/ee/________________
Bring your favorite 
Photos, 
Personal Artwork 
or
Child's Drawings
to the 
COPY CAT,
and we'll transform 
them into that 
one-of-a-kind gift 
your loved ones will 
never forget!
Exams, shopping and holiday 
parties...what a crazy time or the 
year! Keep it all together with a 
from Metrocall.
Pacing* includes:
•A new Motorola Renegade numeric pager, available in Black and Clear. 
•Three months of reliable local pacing service until wide area coverage. 
•Three months of Metromessage' Voice Messaging with notification.412-920-2800METROCALL
America s Wireless Messaging Network
KLA Instruments is the world's leading manufacturer of Optical Inspection 
Equipment for the Semiconductor Capital Equipment market. Located in the 
heart of Silicon Valley.
KLA will be visiting Carnegie Mellon for a company presentation on 
January 23rd, and for on-site interviews on January 24th.
See Career Center for details.m
KLA INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION
University of Pittsburgh 
3945 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
412/624-0553
Stofe 9% ca/l ctetcuù*. SantfiieA. <\*t dcâfiiafy!

---------------------------------------------------

8myEgs ,’» TccEs kCDIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaP oswsgbsu k,,H
Pittsburgh pie runs gamut in quality, taste
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
[Tartan Diversions Editor
According to Jack Kerouac, pie is popular among 
truck drivers because it gives drivers an excuse to 
sit in a diner for a while without spending too many 
pesos. Gabbing with a waitress or other drivers can 
dffer a nice alternative to the weary road. Pie, if it
apple a la mode, also offers a nutritious snack. In 
On the Road, Kerouac points out that with just a 
slice of apple pie and a scoop of vanilla ice cream, 
lie could get his daily servings of dairy, fruit, and 
¿rain. Pretty clever, huh?
Me, I just love pie ’cause it’s so dam yuMM-ay. 
So, I got me a little troop (Brockett, Neil, and 
Carrice) and we went all over looking for different 
places to have pie. We weren’t too successful in 
finding independent diners, so Denny’s will be 
sneaking its way into this little review — believe 
you me, it wasn’t pleasant.
Ritter’s is a swell little diner up on Baum Boule­
vard right by the Taco Bell. Perhaps even more 
important than the pie is that Ritter’s has got those 
groovy little stereos on each table from which you 
can select “Naughty Girls Need Love Too” by 
Samantha Fox. Really, can you go wrong with 
Samantha? I think not. At Ritter’s, I usually go 
with banana cream pie. On a scale of 1-3.14 with 
3.14 being the best, Neil gives Ritter’s banana 
cream pie a 2.83. Personally, I will go along with 
such a rating. The pie is low on banana chunks, but 
strong on taste. Low chunkage level is not neces- 
;arily a bad thing, see. It varies from diner to diner.
Georgie’s (found on Saw Mill Run Boulevard) for 
example, is at the opposite end of the chunk spec­
trum. At this place, not only do you get a cute little 
diner with real friendly service, but also a slice of
pie with plethora o’-chunkee-banana. You can’t I gave the banana cream a 2.5 and the chocolate 
find a bite without a piece of real banana, so while mousse a 2.8. Brockett was a bit more generous, 
you may lose some of the cream you get at Ritter’s, giving the banana cream pie (which, by the way, 
there is a feel of greater substance. I’ve got to give had a kind of medium chunk factor) a 2.7632 and a 
the Georgie’s banana cream pie a solid 3.01. 2.987 for the chocolate mousse. Carrice, who doesn’t
I, for one, cannot understand the logic behind really like banana cream pie, actually liked 
pumpkin pie, but apparently some people dig it. Gullifty’s, giving it a 3.01. Now that’s a yuMM-ay 
Carrice tried it at Georgie’s. “I can’t describe it to slice of pie.
you,” she said as she gave it a rating of 2.75.1 guess Strange enough, at Gullifty’s we ran into Adam,
that’s pretty good — pumpkin pie — whatever. who was enjoying a piece of key lime pie (I didn’t 
One of the pies that catches your eye the second even get a bite). He said it was very good—“much 
you walk into Georgie’s is the cookies ’n’ cream, better than Denny’s.” So, just for a moment, let’s
Neil got a slice and gave it a rating of 
2.96. If you like sweets, it would be hard 
to beat that slice — chocomania baby.
Everyone knows how famous Gullifty’s 
is for dessert, so we could hardly ignore 
this Pittsburgh cultural icon. We got 
two slices for the four of us: 
banana cream (of 
course) and 
deep dish 
chocolate 
mousse. The 
chocolate 
mousse pie 
was “very rich 
and not very 
creative” said 
Carrice. Neil, 
however, 
thought it 
was “wicked 
rich.” Brock-
yum
pie
talk Denny’s. The troop and I headed 
over there for a slice of key lime pie.
“Is that key lime pie or toothpaste?” 
Carrice asked. Get the point? She 
gave the green slab a 1.01. Neil said 
it was “the worst piece I’ve ever had 
in my life.” Brockett just wanted to 
point out that key lime pie is actu­
ally supposed to be yellow, not the 
radiation-infested spewish off-green 
Denny’s served. Keep in mind that 
Denny’s had some real fine looking 
pie, but we happened to try the key 
lime — not pleasant.
Now King’s. My haven away from 
haven. Before I even get into the 
actual pie, let’s talk “a la mode.” At 
most diners, when you get pie a la 
mode, you can expect a nice scoop of 
ice cream plopped on top of yer pie. 
Not at King’s, baby. No sir, at Kings 
you can expect a slab of ice cream, 
ett was particularly fond of the banana cream pie’s These zany folks will dig into a bucket of delicious 
crust which I will agree was good, but the chocolate ice-cream with a metal spatula in order to dig out 
mousse pie had an oreo crust that rocked my world, a slab of ice cream. This way, the ice cream will
cover the entire slice of pie, instead of just the 
center. We’re talking ice cream with every bite — 
Yahoo!
The banana cream is a nice mix of Georgie’s 
chunk and Ritter’s smooth, so if you’re the middle- 
of-the-road type, check it out. I particularly sug­
gest that you check out the King’s special which is 
apple pie with cinnamon ice cream. I’ve never had 
it myself, but I’ve gotten good reports. Rating of 
both banana cream and apple pie: 2.900.
Anywhere you go, pie won’t be too expensive. 
Even at Gullifty’s you won’t be paying much more 
than two or three dollars for a slice. Pie is a terrific 
way to instigate conversation, and it is just good, 
solid American fun. So, be an American; eat pie.
If you want the world’s one and only 3.14, you’re 
SOL becausethe only one I’ve come across in all my 
travels is my Mom’s apple pie and it’s already gone. 
She only makes it once a year and that’s for Thanks­
giving. Maybe next year, kiddos.
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor'
Schenley ice-skating provides fun exercise off campus
!By ENA KHAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
With the end of the semester and fi­
nals right around the corner, stress lev­
els at CMU are running high. There’s no 
better way for students to ease their 
(anxieties than skating their worries 
j at the nearby Schenley Ice Skat­
ing Rink. Just a short walk from cam­
pus, the link is a frequent stop for many 
CMU students during the winter 
months.
For some, skating is the perfect week­
end activity because it provides a fun 
alternative to the typical campus par­
ties. Mike Stanger, a junior economics 
and biology major said, “It’s better than 
drinking beer. And it makes me feel like
a kid again.” Kristopher Peterson, a jun­
ior history and policy major, found skat­
ing provided for a night of good clean 
fun. “Typically I would be imbibing the 
alcoholic beverage of my choice,” he said. 
Lisa Tudi, an undecided freshman at 
the University of Pittsburgh, also ap­
preciates the wholesome fun that skat­
ing provides. She said, “Ice skating saves 
brain cells.”
For others, just escaping from campus 
for a few hours provided enough initia­
tive to go skating. “It’s a good reason to 
get off campus and I like watching Mike 
[Stanger] fall,” said Katie Maynard, a 
junior social history major.
Meeting new people is another plus to 
skating at Schenley. Dozens of CMU 
and Pitt students frequent the rink, cre­
ating the perfect social atmosphere. “He’s 
[Stanger] here to pick up the babes,” 
said Maynard. Stanger was not alone. 
Couples holding hands and clutching 
each other for support indicated that 
skating was an ideal activity for a date.
The Schenley Ice Skating Rink has 
special offers for college students. On 
Tuesday nights, a college ID reduces the 
$3 charge to $2 (plus $2 for skate rent­
als). On December 8, several CMU orga­
nizations, including Student Activities, 
SDC, and the Crew team, are sponsor­
ing Winterfest ’95, during which there 
will be free skating at Schenley. Other 
special programs include fun activities 
like Skate With Santa on December 21 
and family skate nights every Thurs­
day.
Comedy theater gets mixed reviews
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor 
è ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Diversions Editor
We just got back from The Pitts­
burgh Public Theater where we saw 
The Bible: The Complete Word of God 
(abridged) performed by the Reduced 
Shakespeare company. After the show, 
we had a brief discussion about the 
•performance.
Eric: I laughed my bum off. The
John: I’ll agree that there are some 
strong points. The three, as a group, are 
funny and work well off of each other.
However, the jokes were both in the 
form of the Marx and Dr. Joyce Broth­
ers: burlesque and sex. Like Mad Maga­
zine, these boys are juvenilia, and I didn’t 
quite enjoy it as much as I could have.
Eric: But there are good reasons why 
this show is often compared to Monty 
Python and like you said, The Marx 
Brothers. The audience laughs almost 
non-stop throughout the entire perfor- 
'show consists of three guys (not the mance. There are few if any truly taste- 
original three, 
but at least they 
are all original re­
placements) .
: They are Reed,
Matt, and Austin.
I call them by 
their first names 
because I feel like 
I know them so 
well. They make 
the audience feel 
like a part of the 
¡show.
' John: I thought 
[it was a jolly
;r°mp, but not courtesy Pittsburgh Public Theater
¡Worth the price of Putting the fun back into fundamentalism, The Reduced Shakespeare 
admission [$10 Company is currently performing at the Pittsburgh Public Theater.
with student ID].
While the three actors were jovial, less jokes that you’d have to feel uncom- 
:°nginal, and vibrant, their shtick wore fortable with if your mother were there, 
down near the end. I was amused, but but it’s not so straight-edge that you get 
^Nonplussed. bored.
Eric: I must have seen a different John: I was bored, Eric. I laughed, I’ll 
show because I thought the second act admit, but the comedy wasn’t tight and 
Jjas the more lively and entertaining, witty enough to warrant the price. They 
wanted, a lot of the show was like are very funny guys, but their show is a 
stand-up comedy, but it was excellent bit too slow and a bit too loose to keep day, and2 and 7pm on Sunday. Regu 
[.stand up comedy. When a person walks any strong interest. I feel college-age lar ticket prices are $34, but there is a 
^ late and the performers stop the people will enjoy it, and adults will enjoy student discount price of just $10 a 
show to chastise for tardiness, you’ve it, but it was not good. What does that ticket. For more information, call the 
Bot great, personal comedy. mean? Public Theater box office at 321-9800.
They were stand-up comics, wacky 
guys, and all-round good people. How­
ever, it was like seeing three guys 
running around trying not to laugh for 
an hour. It’s funny, but it gets old.
Eric: We both agree that the show is 
funny, and that students will enjoy it. 
You seem to think it was a little un­
professional. I thought that was part 
of the charming way the actors made 
the audience feel like part of the show.
John: Overall, the show was well 
conceived.
There were some memorable mo­
ments, but I think it 
could have been funnier, 
more interesting, and 
much better.
Eric: I will assume 
that one of those mo­
ments you are referring 
to is when 10 members 
of the audience were 
picked to be on stage for 
the Noah’s ark scene. A 
word to the wise though, 
the Reduced Shakes­
peare Company said 
that “anyone who hopes 
to be on stage probably 
won’t be.”
They prefer to pick on 
the shy guy cowering in 
the corner. So, if noth-
ing else, pretend to be shy.
The Reduced Shakespeare Company 
is performing The Bible: The Com­
plete Word of God (abridged) at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater. The show 
runs through December 31 with cur­
tain times at 8 pm on Tuesday-Satur-
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Sure, they just go around in circles, but ice skating is a lot of fun.
Brosnan delivers as Bond
By AMITKAR
Tartan Business Manager
The setting is the same; a glitzy casino 
full of well-to-do people betting vast sums 
of money. The motive, also, remains 
unchanged; a mysteriously beautiful 
woman has made her interest in the 
dashing Englishman wearing the im- 
peccably-tailored tuxedo plainly ob­
vious. And then, those famous words; 
“The name’s Bond. James Bond.”
What: Goldeneye Director.Martin Campbell 
Company:MGM/UA Films
These five words, together constitute 
the single most successful pick-up' line 
in the history of the universe. Three 
decades ago, it was the then-unknown 
Sean Connery who uttered these words 
in Dr. No, the first Bond movie, and 
started his meteoric rise to super star­
dom, becoming one of the most enduring 
sex-symbols in the movie industry. On 
November 17, the mantle and Bond’s 
Walther PPK- pistol went to Pierce 
Brosnan, former star of the TV series 
Remington Steele who made his debut in 
Goldeneye, the 17th Bond film.
Bond movies have always been about 
instant audience gratification and Gold­
eneye delivers from the very beginning. 
The opening sequence, an incredible 
bungee leap off the side of a dam, set a 
world record. In the next instant, the 
gadgets kick in followed immediately by 
a display of Bond’s dry humor (he drops 
in on a Soviet officer who happens to be 
doing his business on a commode). And 
then the action starts with a massive 
fire-fight which ends with Bond making 
a miraculous escape, involving a plane 
and gravity.
Then, of course, there are the Bond 
girls. The women in Goldeneye join a 
long list of Bond girls: Honor Blackman 
as Pussy Galore in Goldfinger, Ursula 
Andress inDr. No, Barbara Bach in The
Spy Who Loved Me, and Jane Seymour 
in Live and Let Die to mention a few. 
Famke Jannsen, (as the sadistic nym­
phomaniac, Xenia Onatop who takes 
unnatural pleasure out of squeezing men 
to death with her thighs), plays the per­
fect foil to Izabella’s Scorupco’s Tania, 
Bond’s romantic interest in Goldeneye.
The story involves a Soviet-designed 
satellite known as Goldeneye, capable of 
crippling entire cities by directing an 
intense radiation surge, destroying any­
thing with a microchip in it. Somehow, 
Bond’s longtime friend on Her Majesty’s 
Secret Service, 006 (played by Sean 
Bean), disillusioned by some historic 
betrayal of his family, turns on his coun­
try and manages to commandeer some 
of these satellites himself. His plan is to 
cripple London right after a Russian 
computer genius steals all the money 
from the Bank of England.
The plot isn’t an original Ian Fleming 
and it leaves something to be desired, 
but Bond flicks have never been about 
realism. It’s all about rooting for the 
Good Guy as he goes about trashing the 
bad guys, seducing the women, and 
breaking all the rules. Brosnan, who 
was supposed to take the role in 1986 
from Roger Moore, was bom to play 
Bond. He walks like Sean Connery, has 
Roger Moore’s urbane wit, and harbors a 
sinister, vengeful streak like Timothy 
Dalton. In fact, Brosnan points to 
Connery’s second Bond movie, 
Goldfinger, as his inspiration to become 
an actor.
Goldeneye, like the 16 Bond films be­
fore it, has something for everyone: ac­
tion, humor, sex and music. In this age, 
when movies are frequently constrained 
by the need to convince the audience, to 
impart some lesson or adhere to the 
limitations of political correctness, a 
Bond movie is a breath of fresh air.
For those of you who haven’t seen 
Goldeneye, run to the nearest cinema 
playing it, suspend your disbelief, hang 
it way high, and enjoy the ride.

---------------------------------------------------

;T(MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
‘Best of compilation 
makes for quality mix
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Get off the Green Day, oust the 
Offspring, and raze the new Ran­
cid album, all you “new school” 
punks. The flagship of American 
Hard-core-with-a-capital-“H” has 
returned to give you the course 
packet in Punk 101.
Who: Bad Religion 
What: All Ages 
Label: Epitaph records
Bad Religion is one ofthe found­
ing fathers of Southern Califor­
nia hard-core punk. The band’s 
latest release, All Ages, is a retro­
spective of the band’s personal 
picks from their albums from 1987 
to 1992, continuing where their 
last retrospective, 80-85, left off 
(with one exception). However, 
where 80-85 suffered from var­
ied production, because it 
chronicled the band’s origin and 
formative years, All Ages shows 
the band as they established their 
trademark breakneck speed and 
Einsteinium lyrical topics, i.e. “No 
Control”—“Culture was the seed 
- of proliferation/but has gotten 
melded into an unharmonic 
whole.”
Generally, the 22 tracks which 
succeeded to make it onto this 
package are predominantly fan 
favorites and not “greatest hits,” 
thank God. This explains the 
conspicuous absence of “Opera­
tion Rescue,” from 1990’s Against 
the Grain.
Though a college radio hit, this 
sarcastic view of the abortion is­
sue was really nothing to write 
home about. It was more popular 
with the passive listener than 
with BR fans, as is the issue with 
the brilliantly worded tirade 
against mass media, “Only En­
tertainment,” from 1992’s Gen­
erator, which is musically unorigi­
nal.
However, the music on All Ages 
would be found on any serious 
homemade mix. The live staples 
“Modern Man,” “Atomic Garden,” 
“Change of Ideas,” and “Suffer” 
are all there. Chances are that if 
you have a friend who listens to 
BR, you’ve heard “21st Century 
Digital Boy,” but the far-superior 
original version is included here, 
not the 1995 alterna-mix that 
eMpTyV was endlessly pushing 
as part of its “look, now punk is 
cool” format earlier this year.
This old version is edgy, rude, 
and violent — an extreme con­
trast to the homogenized, 
vacuum-packed, sucking-like-a- 
FlowBee big production of the 
renii—and you can actually hear 
the line “Innocence raped with 
napalm fire” in the fade out ... 
bonus points.
The more big-time songs, “Gen­
erator” and “Anesthesia” appear 
back-to-back. “Generator,” a vio­
lent, ultra-loud pop-punk romp, 
is probably the longest song on 
here, clockingin at just over three 
minutes. “Anesthesia” plays more 
on the technical side of the band 
. and even quotes the Beatles in 
the chorus with “1-2-3-4-5-6-7/ 
all good children go to heaven
There are some rather big sur­
prises stuck in the retrospective, 
most noticeably with the hyper­
drive melody of the grievously 
underrated “Walk Away,” which 
has the chilling chorus of “ ‘But 
tomorrow’ he said ‘I’m gonna 
surely walk away/walk away, I’ll 
be a parade/ and I’ll be deter­
mined that no one shall dissuade 
on my way/ I’ll take my sweet 
time/ and bum all the bridges 
that I’m leaving behind.’ ”Zoinks!
Still, the crowning jewels of this 
album are the live tracks “Do 
What You Want” and the Ameri-
Not home cooking- Thank \ God.
Baum Vivant 682-2620
can classic, “Fuck Armageddon 
... This is Hell.” Bad Religion’s 
live shows are insane in their 
sheer volume, and the power of 
these two selections alone are 
worth the low, low, price you’ll 
pay for such an independently 
released CD.
However, the problem with BR 
as of late has been that its last 
two releases, 1993’s Recipe for 
Hatey and 1994’s Stranger Than 
Fiction, suffered from being too 
experimental, too slow, and some­
times just too downright com­
mercial. Of course the accusation 
of “sellout” has been lobbed their 
way because of this, but then 
again, all punk bands face this 
libel at one time or another from 
various moronic poop heads. But 
who cares what moronic poop 
heads think?
If you already own those two, 
buy All Ages, it’s an incredible 
starter kit. If you don’t own those 
two, buy All Ages\ it’s an incred­
ible starter kit. If you already 
own the entire Bad Religion cata­
log, buy All Ages', because no mix 
you ever make will have better 
quality than a CD....
Dramats do nicely with Summer and Smoke
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
“All of us are in the gutter, 
but some of us are looking at 
the stars.” A line credited to 
Oscar Wilde, from Tennessee 
Williams’s Summer and Smoke, 
best captures a dominant theme 
of his works: people who are 
poor or living in destitution and 
who want to make something 
of their lives, who want to rise 
above the circumstances that 
fate has dealt them.
Summer and Smoke is certainly 
no exception. The play is about a 
preacher’s daughter, Alma, and 
her relationship with a young 
doctor, John, with whom she is in 
lové. It becomes a great conflict 
for her, as John is charming, 
suave, and handsome, yet a bla­
tant womanizer and a man given 
to liquor and gambling.
The play dramatizes their re­
versal, as Alma goes from a prim 
and proper lady to the kind of 
woman she thinks John would 
want: sexually aggressive, mor-
Courtesy Carnegie
ally shaky. Yet John changes as 
well, finally assuming a tradi­
tional doctor’s responsibility and 
deciding it’s time to settle down.
The play is not Williams’s best 
work, as the majority of Alma’s 
transition takes place off stage, 
and some lines, like the surpris­
ingly frank Oscar Wilde quote, 
tell us exactly what’s going on 
and leave us with little subtlety 
to contemplate.
Still, the CMU Drama Depart­
ment has brought the play alive 
in a way that is undeniably mov­
ing. The set design 
and lighting make 
for a visually dy­
namic show. Direc­
tor Gregory Lehane 
has a wonderful 
sense of pacing and 
mood. Paula New­
man as Alma is ut­
terly convincing in 
depicting Alma’s 
moral decline, and, 
it is worth noting, 
handles some of the 
role’s vocal chal­
lenges quite nicely. 
Mellon Drama Timothy Sean Mc-
The drama department has another fine Kresge show in Summer and Smoke. Ghee as John is sat­
isfactory in all but one rather 
important respect: He doesn’t 
listen to the other actors in a 
scene. Much of his dialogue 
with Alma seemed rushed, as 
though he was more worried 
about getting the next line right 
than about experiencing an in­
teraction with the character. 
Overall, however, it is a solid, 
risk-taking production of a good 
(but not great) play, a play that 
gloomily exemplifies another 
Williams doctrine; as he says 
in his essay, “The Catastrophe 
of Success,” “Time is short and 
it doesn’t return again.”
Summer and Smoke is play­
ing in the Kresge Theatre 
through December 9. There will 
be a special benefit performance 
of Summer and Smoke today 
at 8 pm. Proceeds will help 
support a Senior Class Show­
case in Los Angeles in Spring 
1996. Tickets are $10, with 
“Special Patron” tickets priced 
at $25 each.
A wine and cheese reception 
will precede the performance; 
For tickets, call the Drama Box 
Office at 268-2407.
f|±p CS nhUMa OlMaly
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
CS First Boston, a leading global investment bank, is recruiting for its Financial Analyst program in the Fixed Income Division.
INTERVIEWING SCHEDULE:
Asset Finance
Thursday February 8, 1996
¦II
W •.. ¦[is-
rm#ililis
Carnegie Mellon University Seniors should submit resumes to the career office by January 25,1996.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
PLEASE CONTACT:
Erica Weiner 
Fixed Income
(212) 909-2952

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,HOe
Guthrie tribute thrills critic
By JOHN BIGGS
Vartan Forum Editor
When I was seven or eight, I 
fgmember singing a song that I 
mly knew the chorus to. I asked 
ny father how the rest went, so 
ie taught me and I sang it with
adds nuance and plays support­
ing roles.
On a stage built like a dynamic, 
post-modern shack, the players 
move from Guthrie’s early years 
as a hobo, his adventures in Cali­
fornia, and finally to his experi­
ences on Skid Row in New York.
tic of all the voices, but also the 
most untrained.
Hailing from the hills of Appa­
lachia, he seemed at home in the 
costumes and with the music, but 
his amateur status showed at 
times. As the acts progressed, his 
nervousness died down and he
rusto: “A little bird told me/ As I Satemow, a CMU faculty mem- shone near the end.
yas walking/ On a big highway/ ber, said the stage and lighting Maria Becoates-Bey had the
were based on “all the fabulous most beautiful of all the voices. 
WPA photos from the ’30s and Her gospel twist on Guthrie’s 
the rhythm, color, and spirit of music added a new dimension to 
Woody Guthrie’s music.” The some of the ballads, and her vi- 
stage and lighting are very ver- vacity and youth upped the on- 
satile. Lightning flashes and the stage energy. Myma Paris was
sound of crickets fill the air at an imposing woman, boisterous
and glad. She played the
blittle bird told me/ This land 
nras made for you and me.” Due to 
iy vibrant youth and gullibility, 
believed the words my father 
ygs making up for me, most as- 
uiredly because he didn’t know 
tie words either, and this ver­
sion of the song stayed 
| with me until I heard the 
I voice of Woody Guthrie 
I sing it, with all the right 
words, in high school.
I JpThe song spoke of red- 
¡j v?ood forests and ribbons 
»highway. It was my vi- 
®on of folk music at the 
tjme, a scratchy, whiny 
£<Jund with all the 
Brength of a Dorothea 
i .¡Lange photograph and 
the grit of a wind storm.
I Woody Guthrie made me 
Tpant to play guitar.
¡I so I taught myself, and 
amed to play some of 
lis songs. I grew influ- 
nced by other people 
iter, people whose influ- 
nces all included Guth- 
ie. I learned “Hard 
Yavellin” and “Union 
laid” and “The Sinking 
f the Reuben James.” I 
wught a harmonica and 
ooled around with it. I 
tyled myself a young 
lust-bowl balladeer. I 
was really a Polish kid 
Tom Columbus, but I 
could dream. And that is 
exactly what the players in City 
Theatre’s Woody Guthrie’s Ameri­
can Song did, both wonderfully 
and woefully.
Guthrie was a migrant worker 
who made his fame singing the 
of the people.” Said Tim 
Satemow, lighting designer: “He 
\tfrote music that comes from the 
heart. You just can’t help but be 
incredibly moved by his work.”
courtesy Woody Guthrie Publications 
Woody Guthrie, one of the greatest folk singers of 
all time still influences musicians today.
points. The set becomes a bam or 
a bar, depending on the mood and 
setting, and Satemow designed a 
series of slides, taken from old 
photographs, of poignant images 
of poverty and hope, which are 
thrown on a rear screen at inter­
vals. All of this made the show a 
visual treat.
The music was superb. Each 
member of the cast played and
Guthrie was, and still is, a giant sang along with the three-piece 
amongfolk singers and song writ- band. Mandolins were plucked, 
fiddles reeled, basses slapped, all 
to the tune of Guthrie’s work. 
The sound was clear and cogent.
On a lower note, some of the 
actors were strangely out of place 
as Woody Guthrie. Richard G. 
Glover, an older Woody, was su­
perb. He had a clear, country voice 
and a wonderful singing style 
reminiscent of Willie Nelson. His 
guitar was strong and his acting 
slow and realistic. D.C. Fitz­
gerald, a musician turned actor 
for this part, had the most realis-
The play, written by Peter 
¡Glazer (son of Tom Glazer, noted 
folk singer), is based on Guthrie’s 
autobiography, Bound for Glory, 
as well as his poems and other 
writings. . More concert than 
drama, the five players and the 
three-piece band move through 
the singer’s life using many of his 
songs strung together by snatches 
of dialogue. Each member of the 
company plays Woody at various 
of his life, and the band
burlesques and sang the 
foot-stomping songs. Her 
voice was also strong and 
energetic, and she added 
a female perspective to 
many of the songs.
Finally there was 
Lawrence Bullock, whose 
impressive resume belied 
his abilities. Bullock did 
not look like he belonged 
with Guthrie hopping 
freights. In fact, he 
looked like he should 
have been commuting to 
an insurance firm on the 
subway.
His acting was over­
wrought and his singing, 
while reminiscent of Arlo 
Guthrie, was loud and 
excitable. He was not 
suited for the role. Bul­
lock takes the stage for 
most of the first act, but 
ultimately his is swal­
lowed by the rest of the 
players’ energy and is 
easily forgotten.
The band, Gerry 
Borish, Tom Cunning­
ham, and Sam Kling- 
ensmith, was tight and wonder­
fully versatile. From slow tunes 
to Irish reels, the group helped 
the cast with amazing agility. 
Again, I will say that this a su­
perb concert of Guthrie’s work, 
and these three made the show.
Guthrie’s influence spreads 
from Bruce Springsteen to U2. 
His music is strong and universal 
and can be appreciated by every­
one.
While the drama in American 
Song is sometimes suspect, the 
music and images created by the 
players is a wonder. From the 
first hard-travellin’ ballad to the 
last note of ‘This Land is Your 
Land,” the City Theatre’s pro­
duction was tight and well cho­
reographed; a wonderful reflec­
tion on the spirit and strength of 
Woody Guthrie.
Woody Guthrie’s American 
Song runs from December 5-24. 
Ticket prices range from $18-$26.
New musician shows power
By JAY MIOLLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Eve Gallagher ... wow. Eve 
Gallagher’s first LP release — 
Woman Can Have It — rocks. I 
was fortunate enough to meet 
her and have a formal discus­
sion, which was an event within 
itself because she was so dy­
namic.
Who: Eve Gallagher
What: Woman Can Have It
Label: Radikal Records
I would have to say that the 
CD is of a dance variety, yet it 
has a real presence. She uses 
all live musicians for the tracks 
which is an accomplishment. It 
has a real techno appeal, yet it 
gets a lot of depth because of 
the live musicians.
Gallagher’s major influence 
is black music. She attributes 
much of her style to spiritual 
and Motown. She admires the 
work of Gladys Knight, and 
Donna Summer, which is ap­
parent listening to the album. 
What caught my attention 
about the album is the fact that 
it was really touching each
boundary of the dance genre. She 
does tracks that are reminiscent 
of 2 Unlimited, then turns around 
and does a track that is reminis­
cent of Madonna in regards to the 
vocal-based sound rather than a 
pure computer-generated rhythm 
that drags on for 10 minutes.
I was also fortunate enough to 
see Gallagher in concert. She can 
really put on a show. I was taken 
aback by the power of her amaz­
ing voice. She went to school for 
classic theater, which her stage 
presence and voice reflect. She 
told me that she had lived in 
Africa and Switzerland, then at 
the age of 16 she started to 
study theater and really 
begin to take music seri­
ously.
Then she met Boy George 
in 1984 and the two be­
came good friends. Some 
years later she put a CD 
out and began touring. She 
took the crowd by surprise 
with the capacity of her 
lungs. She was wailing out 
notes that no one expected.
The disc is very good. It 
has put a new twist on 
dance music. One can ad­
mire the musicianship and Gallagher is a wild diva of hip hop.
craft that this album took to 
make. It says a lot about Eve 
Gallagher. It is amazing to hear 
an album where the songs ac­
tually tell a message or a story. 
The disc also contains a version 
of “Amazing Grace” that “chal­
lenges your expectation.” She 
says she plans on doing some 
blues singing, and she would 
also like to make a jazz album. 
But for now she will finish out 
her American tour with Boy 
George, and in the beginning of 
January, she will begin to 
record an album featuring Boy 
George. Right on!
Famous pianist lives up to name
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
On Sunday, November 19, the 
second concert of the Y Music 
Society recital series took place 
in Carnegie Music Hall on Forbes 
Avenue. World famous pianist 
Alicia de Larrocha greeted the 
audience with a program consist­
ing of works by Mendelssohn, de 
Falla, and Balada.
Known primarily for her idi­
omatic Spanish piano music per­
formances as well as her unique 
Mozart interpretations, de 
Larrocha has performed with vir­
tually every major orchestra in 
the world’s music capitals.
Her reputation as one of the 
most sought after pianists pre­
cedes her, and her numerous re­
cordings have won her countless 
awards as well as endless praise 
from critics. In this concert, de 
Larrocha had no problem reveal­
ing her award-winning playing.
De Larrocha began with “Four 
Songs from Songs Without 
Words” (Op. 19, No. 1; Op. 102, 
No. 3; Op. 38, No. 6; and Op. 67, 
No. 4) by Felix Mendel-ssohn, 
some of the most interesting con­
trasts in tone and color that 
Mendelssohn ever wrote. It is no 
coincidence that the “Songs With­
out Words” have been transcribed 
for virtually every instrument
and chamber ensemble in exist­
ence.
Her performance of the next 
work, Mendelssohn’s Caprice in 
A minor (Op. 33 No. 1) provided 
an interesting contrast to “Songs 
Without Words” but failed to con­
vince me that the piece is really 
fit for the concert stage. The 
Variations sérieuses, Op. 54, an 
unusually dramatic, dark work 
for Mendelssohn, turned out to 
be the highlight of the concert.
The main theme, gradually and 
tastefully developed by de 
Larrocha’s playing, weaved its 
way through 17 different varia­
tions before the end of the piece. 
De Larrocha easily maneuvered 
through numerous technical chal­
lenges and revealed the true 
majesty of the piece during its 
most contrapuntal sections. At 
one point, the piece transformed 
into a prelude and fugue worthy 
of comparison to Bach and ended 
in a chorale no less dramatic than 
any similar piece of the Baroque 
era.
De Larrocha showed the ad­
vantage of her years of experi­
ence at the piano by bringing out 
all of the intensity in these most 
complicated of passages.
I couldn’t believe that the sec­
ond half of the program would be 
as exciting; it was not.
Though her specialty is often
regarded as Spanish piano mu­
sic, the performances of music 
by Balada and de Falla simply 
could not match the dramatic 
flair of the pieces by 
Mendelssohn.
The performance of three 
pieces from CMU’s own profes­
sor of composition Leonardo 
Balada’s Preludis Obstinants 
provided a refreshing change 
from the rest of the romantic 
program.
De Larrocha demonstrated 
the rhythmic variety and in­
triguing harmonic juxtaposi­
tions of the work (these pieces 
should be investigated by any 
serious listener at once).
Finally, de Larrocha per­
formed Cuatro piezas espailolas 
and the Fantasia baetica by 
Manuel de Falla. Lovely as 
these pieces occasionally are, 
they were not nearly as capti­
vating as the other works on 
the program.
De Larrocha played with ex­
ceptional charm and had no dif­
ficulty realizing the idiosyncra­
sies native to each piece. (For 
anyone who wants to experi­
ence perhaps the greatest of 
her Spanish recordings, one 
needs to look no father than her 
RCA Victor Red Seal recording 
of Goyescas by Enrique 
Granados.)
Faccu latyS
Let Pittsburgh Filmmakers teach you how to shoot film, video or photography 
for credit at CMU. (You thought we meant with a gun?) We've moved to North 
Oakland at 477 Melwood Ave. Our new, modem facility is 20,000 square 
feet and offers clean and larger darkrooms and editing rooms. We offer stu­
dents access to every piece of equipment needed for all ranges of film, video 
and photography production.
RNEGIMLOMGCU
• Classes start Monday, Jan. 8
• Late registration allowed up until class meets for second time
• CFA Dean's office, 8x2348, for registration information
VLOUISCLMOMGCU
• Pitt Shuttle to Filmmakers with CMU ID
• N. East shuttle to our door Mon.- Fri. from 10am - 2pm; 8pm to 9:30pm
• N. Oakland shuttle to Baum and Melwood at other times.
• Call 681-5449 for more information.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers' School of Film, Video and Photography 
477 Melwood Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 15213 • 681-5449

---------------------------------------------------

kk,MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H
Benefit CD combines talent
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Compilation albums are usually a lot 
like those boxes of Whitman’s candy 
samplers: there are always those few 
caramels that everyone clamors for, and 
the rest of the lot are left untouched for 
weeks on end. Red Hot + Bothered; how­
ever, is an entire record full of caramels. 
It is another in the Red Hot series to 
benefit AIDS education and research. 
This time, the spotlight is turned to­
ward the indie rock community, and 
some of its most promising artists are 
featured performing new material.
Who: Various Artists 
What: Red Hot + Bothered 
Label -. Kinetic Records
Running the gamut from indie to folk 
to country to jazz, Red Hot + Bothered is 
cohesive without being uniform. But it 
also has enough common threads to en­
sure that it isn’t too inaccessible and 
eclectic.
This delicate balance is exactly what 
makes Red Hot + Bothered such a suc­
cessful compilation.
Freedom Cruise, who are Kim and 
Kelly Deal (the Breeders) with Guided 
By Voices, initiate the proceedings with 
“Sensational Gravity Boy,” a song in the 
traditional GBV vein of lo-fi noise and 
irrepressible melody.
The harmonies of the Deal sisters, 
enhance the song’s power all the more. 
Built To Spill and Caustic Resin team 
up on “Still Flat,” which is surprisingly 
moving in its guitar-driven simplicity.
“The Mirror is Gone” highlights the 
plaintive-yet-upbeat folk of Lisa 
Germano. A trickling mandolin and a 
consistent, pounding bass drum make 
this more than just a rote exercise in 
melodic folk.
Australian altema-prodigy Ben Lee’s 
band, Noise Addict, scores big with 
“Mouthwash,” a joyous romp through 
fields of Clash-like melodic punk. These 
guys are one of the first in a long line of 
bands to graduate from the Lou Barlow 
Academy of Catchy Indie-Pop. Appro­
priately enough, Barlow’s Sebadoh side 
project, Folk Implosion, follow immedi­
ately with “indierockinstrumental.” 
They have gained recognition lately from 
their impressive work on the Kids 
soundtrack, and Barlow’s and John 
Davis’ work on this tune is just as in­
triguing.
Barlow and Davis use merely a guitar 
and a drum kit to create a sparse instru­
mental that is amazingly tuneful none­
theless.
The Verlaines, along with Shayne 
Carter, show off their slightly-sloppy, 
Pavement-esque licks on “Some Fan­
tasy,” a song that is strong in its display 
of guitar-propelled noise.
Liquorice features Jenny Toomey in a 
sonically-muted distant cousin of her 
band, Tsunami.
It’s odd to hear Toomey in an acoustic 
setting, but her skills in crafting palat­
able pop are still undeniable. A stag­
nant, bluesy heat hovers over Babe the 
blue OX’s “Hazmats.”
Slide guitar and a pounding bass line 
lurk in the shadows, waiting for your 
mind to drift so they can sneak up from 
behind and make their presence known 
all over again. Juicy brings its melodic 
touch to “Mainland China” without re­
linquishing the delicate hint of disso­
nance in the breathy background vocals 
and bouncing bass.
Texture and understatement are the 
lands in which The Sea and Cake reign 
supreme, and “The Fontana” is certainly 
no exception; the layered guitars and 
marimba play off each other well with no 
danger of seeming crowded.
The Spinanes’ Rebecca Gates’s side 
project, Cradle Robbers, offer up “Sotto 
Voce,” displaying the sort of acoustic 
softness that her flagship band’s debut 
merely hinted at. This leaves one to 
wonder which musical direction Gates 
is traveling in.
Red Hot + Bothered succeeds in a way 
that lesser compilations don’t; namely, 
it’s a very solid body of work, but there is 
truly something for everyone here. Be­
cause of the efforts of a stunningly di­
verse array of artists, Red Hot + Both­
ered is more than just another indie 
compilation. Rather, it is a tribute to the 
brilliant work that can occur when tal­
ented people get together for a great
Toy Story deserves current hype
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Roll over Steamboat Willie, because 
Pixar and Disney just released one of 
the most amazing films of the past 15 
years, Toy Story.
What: Toy Story 
Director: John Lasseter 
Company: Disney
This is not just the “eye 
candy” that it’s been 
hyped up to be, but it lives 
on its own as a beautiful 
piece of comedy and ani­
mation.
The movie’s animated 
characters are brought to 
life by several of 
Hollywood’s top stars, in­
cluding last year’s win­
ner of the best actor Os­
car, Tom Hanks, who 
voices Woody, the pull- 
string talking cowboy.
The other major charac­
ter > Buzz Lightyear “...
Space Ranger,” is voiced 
by Home Improvement's 
Tim Allen, who adds a 
little bit .more than his 
voice to the character. The 
other major characters 
such as Mr. Potato 
Head™, Hamm (the piggy 
bank) and Bo Peep are 
played by Don Rickies,
John Ratzenberger (Cliff 
Clavin from Cheers), and 
Annie Potts (Janine 
Melnitz from Ghostbust- 
ers), respectively.
The two characters Buzz and Woody 
are brought together in a rather pre­
cipitous way at their “human” owner 
Andy’s birthday party. Buzz arrives in 
his box, which he believes is his crashed 
spaceship, into Woody’s domain (a.k.a. 
“Andy’s Room”), and the fireworks be­
gin as Woody begins to lose his control 
and leadership over the rest of Andy’s 
toys. The adventure begins when in an
attempt to get rid of Buzz, he knocks him 
out of the window and into the real 
world. Suspicions of guilt begin to focus 
upon Woody as the perpetrator, and 
taking it upon himself (rather by chance 
actually) he makes his way into the real 
world to search for Buzz. On the way, he 
encounters all the dangers and excite­
ment that it can pose for two toys on 
their own.
The film itself was a joint venture 
between the former-George Lucas-now-
© The Walt Disney Company 
Toy Story has become one of the year’s biggest hits ... and Tom 
Hanks is in it. Go figure. That Gumper sure is something.
Steven-Jobs-owned Pixar, and the Walt 
Disney Company. It took four years for 
this movie to go from concept and plan­
ning to its final stages of production, 
relying on a real labor of love from every­
one involved. This labor of love shows 
when you look closely at much of the 
film, including many of the inside jokes, 
mostly computer oriented. Living with 
my roommate, who is a CS major with
more than a bent towards computer 
graphics, I see a lot of what goes into 
a film like this, and I’d have to say 
that I am extremely impressed.
Another impressive note of the film 
is the return of composer Randy 
Newman to scoring the film as well as 
writing its memorable songs. Mr. 
Newman received an Oscar nomina­
tion last year for his work on The 
Paper and five years ago for Barry 
Levinson’s Avalon, but his work writ­
ing for Toy Story, backed 
by the Disney name, will 
most likely gamer him his 
next nomination and most 
likely a win for Best Song. \ 
The score fits rather well;' 
with the movie, retaining; 
the same style that the! 
great Carl Stalling used in 
much of his work for 
Warner Brothers shorts. • 
After being one ofthe only \ 
people at the viewing ofthe;: 
movie that was giggling;; 
throughout, I would bell 
careful to recommend it to!! 
different groups of people'- 
for different reasons. As a • 
kids movie, it’s a cute bit of • 
animation.
As a feature film, it’s a;; 
nice buddy film, in much!; 
the same manner oiLethal\ 
Weapon but without the;! 
violence (except for the de- i 
stmction of a plastic sol-.’ 
dier with an M-80). As a ; 
tech-weenie film for com­
puter graphics, it sounds a 
new beginning for anima-; 
tion in feature films as on-! 
screen time increases (40: 
minutes in Casper versus 77 minutes 
here) as well as the overall increase in 
refined CG techniques.
In essence... go see this film whether 
you’re a history, art, music, or com­
puter science major... you’ll like it — 
especially since the producer Robert; 
Guggenheim graduated from CMU' 
with a B.S. in communications, M.S. 
in computer science.
Now $1,833
OWN.
Yours and yours alone.
MAC.
-mvsu ltwOedmcU) Ik’’VF’ vVho
8MB RAM/700MB hard drive, 
PowerPC 601 processor, CD-ROM drive,
15" color monitor, keyboard and mouse.
Now $1,750
The awesome computer with all the bells and whistles.
ASAP
We mean like yesterday.ltwOedmcU -suxmugc9 HC’’ho
8MB RAM/800MB hard drive, 
PowerPC" 603processor, CD-ROM drive, 
built-in 15" color monitor, 14.4 modem, 
keyboard, mouse and all the softwareyou're 
likely to need.
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER.Unfortunately, they won’t stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a 
Being a student is hard. So we’ve made buying a Macintosh* easy. So easy, in fact, that the minuteandstartthinkingabouthoweasyitwillbewithaMacintosh.Thecom- * i mim 
prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices, puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be your best! w
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
Produci prices, produci availability and sales taxes may vary. Offer expires January 15,1996. ©1995Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Peiforma, PouvrBook and ‘The power lo be your best" c CardSbop Plus is a registered trademark of Mindscape. All AppA?products are designed to be accessible lo individuals witb disability. 1b learn more (US. only), call 800-776-2333 or TDD 800-833-6223.r, Inc Power Macintosh and Mac are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

MUs Mtudte n htuesaOs lsyyme peOisucOdr n P oswsgbsu k,,H;kN
DH 2210
r 111111 1111 \'111
gmiOsc rmE gtr Utis csse bsxmus////»
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, December 7
The Wizard of Oz
If there ever was a movie more vile and morally 
objectionable than this one, I’m not sure who made 
it. Whoever it was, I’m sure they are rotting in the 
seventh level of hell.
The Wizard ofOz should be renamed The Wizard, 
of Satan’s Pornographic Poppy-Smoking Small 
Winged-Monkey-Minions. It stars a young Judy 
Garland, whose home is torn up by a twister (in 
actuality, a symbol of male dominance over the 
weather) and who then lands on a witch (insulting 
the pagan and wiccan practitioners who run around 
in all black and think they’re vampires that we all 
hold in such high esteem). Then Garland meets 
short people (which insults short people) who give 
her crack and make her see monkeys, metal men, 
and a guy dressed up like a “lion.”
Family fun is important, but I’d hate to see the 
family that enjoys the horror with which this 
movie portrays one girl’s fight against lewd vi­
sions. I’m all for child-exploitation films, but this 
one takes the cake.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, December 8
Clueless
Clueless is a movie that is mmmmmuph, 
mmmmmurmmm good. Starring Alicia Silverstone 
as herself and featuring a talking dog named 
Eddie, this film deals with one girl’s fight with 
hairspray and runny hose. See, it’s based on some 
really important book by Emily Bronte or John 
Grisham, but is set in modern-day California where 
the girls wear $500 skirts and all the children are 
above average. So there’s a bunch of clueless 
people running around, and there’s a love interest, 
and nobody gets killed.
Anyway, it should be kind of wacky, shiny, and 
bright: just right for those long winters behind the 
woodshed.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, December 9
Desperado
Directed by the Quentin Tarintino of movies 
about guys with guitars who can blow your head 
off, this one features Antonio “He Ain’t No John 
Travolta But We Assume His Butt Is Cute” 
Banderas and his gun.
It’s about how this guy who plays guitar goes up 
against an evil drug-mob-mafia-death boss and 
kills all his minions, kisses a ravishing woman 
(played by Merle Haggard), says funny things 
after he kills people, and then shoots the death 
boss in the head in a comical, if dark, way.
A sequal to the movie El Mariachi, this movie is 
titled after that song that goes “Desperado/ Why 
don’t you pull up your pants, / And get out of my 
house / Before I call the cops / You sick pre-vert.” 
Shana says “Mmmurph, Meeeurph, Mmmm- 
mmurp.”
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, December 10
Robot Monsters vs. The Az­
tec Mummy
Well, this one isn’t too hard to riddle out. From 
what I remember, the robot monster in this movie 
is a guy in a gorilla suit with a bulbous helmet on 
his head. Now, knowing that, and understanding 
that there is an Aztec Mummy involved, one would 
assume that this will be about a guy in a gorilla 
suit with a bulbous helmet on its head attacking 
some guy dressed in gauze.
See this one with that guy you know who likes to 
dress up in gorilla costumes. He’ll get a kick out of 
it, once he gets out of jail.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Craps! Casino fails to beat the odds
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
There’s been quite a bit of hype 
surrounding the release of Ca­
sino, which is to be expected since 
it is directed by Martin Scorsese. 
It just comes with the territory. 
One would think that with Rob­
ert De Niro and Martin Scorsese 
together, you just couldn’t go 
wrong. Sadly, this is not the case 
with Casino.
What: Casino
Director: Martin Scorsese
Company: Universal Pictures
When describing a movie about 
gangsters, sex, violence, and gam­
bling, the first word out of 
anyone’s mouth should not be 
long. I have tried to figure it out, 
but I just don’t know what 
Scorcese was thinking when he 
made this three-hour cataclysm.
Based on a true story, Casino 
follows Sam “Ace” Rothstein, a 
bookie who becomes involved with 
the Midwestern mob when they 
pick him to front four of their 
casinos in Las Vegas. Sharon 
Stone plays his wife, Ginger, and 
Joe Pesci plays his friend and 
casino hit-man, Nicky Santoro. 
Together they become a very pow­
erful force in the glitzy and dan­
gerous desert city.
Usually, it would take about ing the three-hour period, the 
half an hour to set up this type of action is so sporadic that I was
story. Such is not the case with 
Casino, as it has the longest set­
up of any movie I’ve ever seen. 
Nothing really happens or 
changes until about half-way into 
the movie and by that point I was
simply bored the rest of the time. 
Apparently, somebody recognized 
the lack of action because the 
entire movie is narrated for the 
audience. These voice-overs, done 
primarily by De Niro’s and Pesci’s
so drained by the tediousness of characters, are a mistake, and I 
the first half that nothing in the mean huge. The visuals and story
in a movie 
should be 
strong 
enough to 
stand on 
their own, 
without the 
necessity of 
a narrator to 
explain ev­
erything to 
the audi­
ence. Per­
haps this re­
lates to the 
tired, old 
lesson — 
show, don’t 
tell.
© Universal Pictures Much of 
DeNiro stands tall as the king of casinos. what goes
on in this movie is redundant or 
extraneous. A lot of time and
second half was going to make up 
for it.
The biggest problem with this 
movie is the lack of action, which 
seems contradictory to the fact 
that this is also one of the most 
violent movies I’ve ever seen. Dur-
money was wasted when filming 
this movie on unnecessary char­
acters, irrelevant plot lines, and 
useless scenes. I was also disap­
pointed in the portrayal of the
only woman in the movie, Gin- 
ger. She has little character de- •. 
velopment and is really nothing 
more than a pawn. Most of the 
actions she takes are unjustified 
because there was nothing estab- - 
lished in her character to explain. - 
them.
I felt the real story was the 
romance between Ginger and, - 
Sam. This alone, with everything • 
else as a backdrop, would have, < 
made for an excellent movie., • 
There is definite chemistry be- 
tween Stone and De Niro, and 
surprisingly, Stone delivers quite _ • 
a good performance. This could r 
have been a pivotal role for her 
(and just in time; she’s not get­
ting any younger) if this movie 
were more watchable. I am going, 
to predict, however, that audi­
ences are going to shy away from, 
a three-hour endeavor. This year’s, 
Braveheart was three hours long, __ 
also, but the action was intense .t 
enough to carry even the most-.^ 
inattentive person to the very end. 
Casino does not possess this con-(i 
sistent intensity.
Regardless, I still think that 
Scorsese is an absolute genius. 
Much of the cinematography is' - 
phenomenal. Maybe he justi 
should have looked a bit harder. ¦ 
for some good editors. About 50-; 
percent of this film belongs on the 
floor of the editing room.
Critic names year’s best television programs
On the Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
In addition to setting the stan­
dard for quality on network tele­
vision, this year’s best programs 
have something else in common: 
they all deal with death. Whether 
these series involve murder in­
vestigations, dying patients, or 
funerals, the afterlife remains a 
prominent topic. Fortunately, 
none of these great programs have 
to worry about dying anytime 
soon; all perform relatively well 
in the ratings, and appear to have 
a long life ahead of them.
This year’s 10 best programs 
are:
1. Murder One (ABC), a capti­
vating drama that has taken a 
sensational crime (the murder of 
a teenage girl found naked in an 
apartment full of drugs) and is 
following the trial of her accused 
killer throughout the entire sea­
son. A serial like this cannot suc­
ceed without superb writing and
acting; creator Steven Bochco has 
employed the best in the busi­
ness.
2. ER (NBC), one of the most 
riveting hours on television due 
to expert writing, editing, and 
direction. In fact, ER has pro­
duced two episodes, “Love’s La­
bor' Lost” (in which a birth goes 
tragically awry) and “Hell and 
High Water” (in which a boy was 
trapped in a storm drain), which 
rank as two of the most wrench­
ing hours of television this year.
3. Chicago Hope (CBS), an im­
pressive medical drama that is 
set in a fictitious world-famous 
hospital in the Windy City. Al- 
thou.gh.Hope is losing its two best 
performers (Mandy Patinkin and 
Peter MacNicol), it is gaining the 
equally talented Christine Lahti 
and Jamey Sheridan as a cardi­
ologist and obstetrician, respec­
tively.
4. Picket Fences (CBS), a once- 
compelling series that focused on 
controversial issues, but has re­
cently become an enjoyable (but 
far from brilliant) character 
study, reminiscent of Northern 
Exposure in its prime. Neverthe­
less, the characters are so fasci­
nating that learning more about 
them is certainly a pleasurable
viewing experience.
5.Law and Order (NBC), which, 
in its sixth season, proves that a 
series can improve with age. Or­
der has always been an excellent 
program, largely due to its bril­
liant writers and competent ac­
tors. The series’ recent episode 
that focused on capital punish­
ment was unforgettably chilling.
6. NYPD Blue (ABC), the best 
police drama of the decade. It has 
survived the departure of star 
David Caruso, and has estab­
lished an ensemble reminiscent 
of the legendary Hill Street Blues. 
Jimmy Smits has easily filled 
Caruso’s shoes in his role as Bobby 
Simone, while Dennis Franz is 
amazing in his role as the gruff 
but good-natured Andy Sipowicz.
7. Homicide: Life on the Street 
(NBC), which was completely 
shut out of this year’s Emmys, 
despite brilliant writers, fabulous 
actors (including electrifying 
Andre Braugher), and expert di­
rectors. Last Friday’s episode, in 
which a 10 year-old boy was acci­
dentally shot and left brain-dead 
was the most heartbreaking hour 
of television this year.
8. Prime Suspect: The Lost 
Child (PBS), the best TV movie of 
the year, which chronicled the
desperate search for an abducted 
infant and featured a shocking \ 
conclusion that, unfortunately/ - 
will seem tragically familiar to: ¦ 
American audiences. Star Helen.’1 
Mirren, the medium’s finest dra- • 
matic actress, has created one of 
the most complex characters in 1 
television history.
9. Frasier (NBC), television’s.' 
classiest sitcom, brilliantly.- 
blends sophisticated comedy and • 
farce. Kelsey Grammer has< 
emerged as the best leading man ; 
currently on television, while*: 
David Hyde Pierce has created--; 
one of the medium’s funniest sup- j 
porting characters. In fact, the ; 
series funniest episodes have fo- ; 
cused on the dysfunctional rela- | 
tionship between Pierce’s Niles ; 
and his wife.
10. Touched by an Angel (CBS), | 
which chronicles an angel’s ef- ; 
forts to help wayward mortals. ; 
This show is sappy and predict- j 
able, but in this day and age, ; 
where numerous acts of violence I 
occur daily, it’s nice to see a pro- I 
gram where everyone’s problems ! 
are solved in one hour.
Dan Rosenberg is still watch- \ 
ing. Lots of shows, lots of shows, I 
lots of shows, lots of shows ...
Surprise your folks.
Wta m stay mb in elm,)»«•«<»«>“'• «">»• lu"l(!s .
tale.t .f l«i«i thr.u,h osmosis.) S. do.'t 1.1 htij» ,.t i> tb «, of y...• A, R«.» 
with Vivarin®. One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it’s just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you're up for it. ,rTl1
^¿TiSmithKhno Doocham©1995 |3U Consumar Hoalthcaro
Use only as directed.Revive with Vivarin®

---------------------------------------------------

none of that 
kissey kissey 
stuff schmoopey.
b i. umm umm good.
thanks staff 
the last 24 were super 
love 
lauren
extra special thanks kenny
francie-pants 
nice brain
jason, you lived 
strauss, nice couch 
kathy, thanks for kerning
Wassup G?
Happy 20th Mitzie! 
love, y.b.b.s
that word will never be 
the same? 
To Kalra- 
Thanks for MarkStrat laughs 
Team A1
We need a bouncer Kathy..
Excuse me pablo, 
were you talking?
look everyone, 
john hancock’s 
writing his name 
in the snow.
sisters in the brotherhood
...oh no! The Germans!
graphic by Francine Gemperie/ Tartan Art Co-Editor
What kind of 
catch phrase is 
that?
'
I’m a white male 
age 19 to 49 
everyone listens to me
don’t let yourself get violated
sperm contaminate women 
sex is for making babies
i’d like a side order of 
alice and you know what 
i want on top.......
accidental publication of 
unwanted pregnancy
Don’t hide your love 
in my underwear, 
Paco!
">v
Leeeeee, 
you fell down the stairs 
and lost your shoe...remember?
Hey Elvis, 
Hike cápital letters.
Alice,
you’re a sweet treat 
and we eat it up. 
love, S and Z
Happy 22nd b-day brockett!
(()ox Cpopuii
Choice of the cpeopfe
Films
The Wizard of Oz will play in DH 2210 this 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Clueless will play in DH 2210 this Friday at 6, 
8,10 pm, and midnight.
Desperado will play in DH 2210 this Saturday at
6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Robot Monsters vs. The Aztec Mummy will 
play in DH 2^^jg Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and 
midnight.
The Foreign Film Series will be held at the 
Campbell Memorial Chapel this Saturday at 8 
pm. This week the series will present Guelwaar 
from Senegal. Admission is free. For more infor­
mation call 365-1100.
Single "White Female will be screened this Sat­
urday at 8 pm in the Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater. Admission is $5 for students. Call 622- 
3212.
tional exhibition November 5 through February
18. The exhibit was organized by the Museum’s 
curator of contemporary art, Richard Armstrong, 
and represents a confluence of the best of the 
moment in worldwide contemporary art. For more 
information call 622-3214.
Brew HouÉë SPACE) and independent cura­
tor Vicky A. Clark present R.E.S.P.E.C.T., a 
group exhibition featuring the recent develop­
ments of eight women artists. All of the artists 
address the human figure through two-dimen- 
sional, three- dimensional and installation works. 
The show will run from November 10 through 
December 9. For more information call 268-2081.
Concert Hall in the CFA. Admission is free. For 
more information call 268-2372.
The Carnegie Mellon Jazz Ensemble Con­
cert will be held at 3 pm in the Alumni Concert 
Hall in the College of Fine Arts. Admission is 
free. For more information call 268-2372.
The Manchester Crajftsman’s Guild wel 
comes Loraa Simpson on December 7 for 
slide lecture and artist reception to accompany a 
exhibition of her photographic installations. Th 
show will run from December 4-31. The slid 
lecture and reception will begin at 7 pm. Form® 
informatioi^St2i22-l 773.
Theatre
Music
Art
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts The Week­
end Factory, named after Warhol’s studios in 
New York City. Free with museum admission, 
the Weekend Factory is open Saturdays and 
Sundays from 12-4 pm. For more information call 
237-8300.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts presents 
Paintings by Odd Nerdrum, an exhibition of 
his recent allegorical paintings. The show will 
run through December 31. For more information 
call 361-0873.
The Studio Z Gallery presents Anyone for a 
game of darts'!, an exhibition by Gemma 
Shanfield Boyer. The show will run from Decem­
ber 1-30, Tuesday through Saturday, 11 am 
through 5 pm. For more information call 381- 
6400.
The Hewlett Gajle.iy presents a mixed-me- 
dia installation, Spirit Visions by P. Lynn 
Cox. Inspired by lrer tra vels'to Iceland, Cox has 
become a landscape artist in New Castle, Penn­
sylvania. The show will run until December 20. 
For more information call 268-3618.
The Forbes Gallery presents Tahariel and 
Pharzuph, by Katherine Bates and Anne M. 
Lopez, running December 5-10. The closing re­
ception will be held this Friday from 7-9 pm. This 
will be the gallery’s last show of the semester. For 
more information call 268-2081.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the onset of the 1995 Carnegie Intema-
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents a cel­
ebration of the Christmas traditions of genera­
tions of Pittsburgh families in music, song, and 
dance during United We Sing: A Carnegie Centen­
nial Christmas Concert this Sunday at 2 pm in 
The Carnegie Music Hall. For more information 
call 268-3126.
The Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, in coop­
eration with the Pittsburgh Early Music En­
semble, will hold a series of Baroque music De­
cember 14 at 12 pm in the main library. Parking 
is available in the garage. Entrance is available 
at Forbes Avenue and South Craig Street. For 
more information call the Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh at 622-3162.
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents Summer 
and Smoke by Tennessee Williams, directed 
by Gregory Lehane Tuesday through Saturday at 
8 pm with a 2 pm Saturday matinee at the Kresge 
Theater in the College of Fine Arts. Tickets can be 
purchased for $10 (general public) and $5 (stu­
dents and senior citizens). There will be a special 
benefit performance of the play tonight at 8 pm. 
Proceeds will help support a Senior Class Show­
case in Los Angeles in spring 1996. Tickets are 
$10 with “Special Patron” tickets priced at $25. 
For more inform^iQn call 268-2407.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents Im 
national Artists Round Table: Richai 
Artschwager, Stan Douglas, Louise Fishman, ai 
Doris Salcedo, a discussion in the lecture hi 
January 20 from 1-4 pm. The discussion will 
moderated by Richard Armstrong. For more ii 
formation call 622-6509.
Notiti
Project recording artists Thanatos, a gothic- 
rock band from California lecturing William 
Tucker from Ministry, will play at 8 pm at the 
Oakland Beehive in an all-ages show this Satur­
day. Opening are locals Vampire Nation and 
Elsewhere. Call 488-0886.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present the complete Messiah with Apollo’s Fire 
(the Cleveland Baroque Orchestra), soloists and 
chorus, this Saturday at 7:30 pm in Synod Hall. 
Ticket prices are $25, $20, $15, and $10 (full-time 
student with an ID.) For more information call 
682-5253.
The River City Brass Band presents the 
Family Holidays Concert at the Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall in Oakland this Saturday at 3 pm. For 
reservations and information call (800) 292- 
RCBB.
The College of Fine Arts presents the CFA 
Holiday Concert wjth-works by Bach, Barber, 
and traditional favprites under the conduct of 
Robert Page this Friday at noo'i&h the CFA lobby. 
For more information call 268-2349.
The Carnegie Mellon Contemporary En­
semble will perform at 8 pm in the Alumni
Carnegie Mellon MastecDof Fine Arts pre­
sents The Crucible by Arthur Miller, directed 
by Elisabeth Orion. The play will run this Wednes­
day through Sunday in the Studio Theatre. All 
evening performances begin at 8 pm. The Satur­
day and Sunday matinees begin at 2 pm. Tickets 
are $10 for the general public and $5 for students 
and senior citizens. For more information call 
268-2407.
City Theatre presents Woody Guthrie’s 
American Song, songs and writing by Woody 
Guthrie, conceived and adapted by Peter Glazer. 
The show will run from December 1-24, Tuesday 
through Friday at 8 pm, Saturday at 5:30 and 9 
pm and Sunday at 2 pm. Ticket prices are $18— 
$26 with student and senior citizen discounts 
available. For more information call 431-4400.
The Saltworks Theatre Company presents 
You Can’t Take It With You at the Eddy The­
atre of Chatham College December 8-10 and 15- 
17 at 7:30 pm, Saturday and Sunday matinees at 
2:30 pm. Tickets are $12 for adults, $10 for 
students and $ 8 for children. For more informa­
tion call 687-8884.
The Goodwill Literacy Initiative is looking 
for volunteers to help adults learn about readini 
writing, and math. The next tutor training sei 
sions begin in January. Call soon for more infori 
mation at 481-4836.
The Central Blood Bank will donate one dol 
to local charities for every blood donation 
lected between December 18 and January 7. Pleas 
donate your blood. For more information call 456 
5586.
Film Club is casting for student films thi 
Wednesday at 5 p^?S£i3H2210. See posters f» 
casting informationjind tinje^, Call 683-
The Jewish University Center sponsors asffl 
dent-faculty pre-Hannukah reception. Refresl 
ments will be served. Call 621-8875 or ema 
MaxG@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
The Jewish University Center is sponsoring 
Hannukah party at Rosebud December 6 
pm. The annual bash will include local 
Blindsight and Beggerman. Cost is $5 and « 
eludes admission, transportation, and refresl
ments. EmailMaxG@andrew.cmu.eduorcall 621
8875 for more information or reservations.
'Lectures
The Carnegie Museum of Art will hold High­
light Talks, a series of 15-minute talks that 
focus on works of art in the 1995 Carnegie Inter­
national December 5-8 and 12-15. The first se­
ries will concentrate on Richard Artschwager’s 
Table in the Presence of Enemies, 1993. The 
second series will center around Tony Oursler’s 
Telling Vision # 4, 1994. For more information 
call 622-6508.
Women’s Basketball will play Bethany Colleg 
in the gym this Wednesday at 6 pm.
Women’s Basketball will play in the Mancie* 
ter College Tournament this Friday and Satu* 
day at 6 and
Men’s Basketball wB^play at Juniata Colleg 
this Friday at 3 pm.
Men and Women’s Indoor Track willrun 
Kent State University on December 10 at a M 
to be announced.
