N udii \ See I-eu tu res*Thorns and Thistles See Op
—
mi m

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
Problems Uncovered in Faculty Course Evaluations (FCE)
By ALEX HOOSHMAND
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate's Academic Affairs 
Committee recently completed an 
investigation of the Faculty Course Evaluation system. Norman Larson, the 
chairman of the committee, is on the brink 
of flooring a resolution in the Senate, 
calling improvements in the FCE process.
The Faculty Course Evaluations started as 
a service provided by A Phi O, designed to 
help students in choosing courses and 
instructors. Approximately ten years ago, the administration offered to take over 
responsibilty for producing the FCE as it 
planned to conduct its own evaluations for 
the purpose of granting tenure to the faculty 
anyway. Since then, the FCE is prepared by the Planning Office each year and released for 
the benefit of the university community.The Academic Advisory Committee, 
according to Larson, found some deficiencies 
in the way the FCE is conducted. Too much emphasis is put on ratings given by the
students to various aspects of their classes probed on FCE questionaires rather than 
soliciting written comments. Such 
comments are more useful for faculty 
members in trying to improve their courses. 
Larson suggests that questionnaires be handed out at the beginning of class and 
students be encouraged to make comments. 
There would also be the possibility of 
seperating comments from ratings.
A further problem arises out of the fact that 
the questionnaires are handed out at mid- and 
end-of-term, when most students attend 
classes due to the imminence of exams. This 
assures the return of a large number of 
questionnaires. However, it means that 
students who seldom attend class and are 
therefore unqualified, also rate courses, leading to the distortion of results.
Some faculty members refuse to allow the 
surveys to be conducted in their classes. 
They feel that students should not be allowed 
to judge faculty or that the FCE is a proper 
evaluation of their work. Larson counters by
reasoning that any faculty member who will 
judge the student's work by grading it, 
should in turn be open to judgement by the student on how he or she is doing his or her 
work.
In a series of meetings with the deans of 
the university colleges and department heads, 
it was found that the FCE is not used in granting tenure to faculty in many 
departments, especially those in CIT. This 
defeats one of its main puiposes.
At the moment it takes several months for the results of FCE to be processed. This can 
be significantly improved upon, allowing a 
more timely response to the results.
Larson plans to propose a faculty and 
course evaluation conducted by students for the students. Seperate from the influence of 
the administration, this could provide a more 
subjective inside guide on which students 
could base their decisions. The Academic Affairs Committee is searching for people 
interested in the above project Those 
interested should contact Norman Larson.
Commencement on Mother’s Day Called A 
“Tight Squeeze”
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffer iter
Director of Special Events Maryann P. 
Moore says she will do "everything I can" to 
keep future commencement ceremonies on 
campus, but this year's event is a tight 
squeeze.
This year's commencement will award 
degrees to 1800 students - 200 hundred more 
than last year. The tent which will house 
graduation on the Cut was extended 50 feet 
to accommodate the larger audience. Almost 
7000 people are expected to visit campus for the 2 pm Mother's Day ceremony.
This will be the first year that the 
University of Pittsburgh’s graduation will be 
the same day as CMU’s. Pitt's graduation 
comes two weeks later than usual, while 
CMU's is on a Sunday.Traditionally, commencement was held on 
Monday, but this year as "an experiment"
graduation will be held on Sunday, even 
though it is Mother's Day. A memo from 
President Cyert to the faculty points out that 
in the past many staff members had to work 
on Mother’s Day preparing for graduation the 
next Monday. With the early date, Cyert 
feels that many workers will have easier 
schedules on Sunday.
Four honorary degrees will be presented at commencement. Publisher Malcolm S. 
Forbes, chemist Paul C. Lauterbur, historian 
Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie, and late 
emeritus professor William O. Philbrook will be those honored. Professor Philbrook 
will be the first posthumous honoree in 
CMU’s history. Though he was a well- 
respected professor at CMU, Philbrook had 
never earned a doctorate.Navy computer pioneer Admiral Grace 
Hopper and Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Voelcker were offered honorary degrees, but
declined due to scheduling conflicts.
Parking permits have been issued to all parents. The IM field will be used to park 
over 400 cars.With the growing size of CMU's 
graduating classes and the lack of parking 
spaces, commencement ceremonies on 
campus are becoming harder to organize.
A wide range of activities will be held 
during graduation weekend. For seniors, there will be a Zero-Year Reunion on Friday, 
a picnic lunch on Saturday, and a 
baccalaureate service early Sunday morning.
Bachelor's and Master's degree candidates 
will receive their degrees in mass during the 
ceremony in the tent. Around 4:30 each department will conduct smaller ceremonies 
around campus to present the actual 
diplomas. Various receptions will follow 
these ceremonies.
Class of ’87 Giving Lounge in Soon-to-be- Built Student Center as Senior Gift
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffer iter
Provided that enough money is raised, 
CMU's class of 1987 will be donating a 
lounge to the new Student Center. Funds 
raised will be applied directly to the capital 
campaign fund. Associate Director of 
Annual Giving Jay Carson commented that 
"it won't be the biggest lounge, but it sure 
won't be the smallest either."
Carson hopes that a quarter of the senior 
class will eventually contribute to the 
project. The fundraiser kicked off over the
weekend when phone solicitations were made 
to seniors. If all goes well, the names of 
those who contribute will be placed on a 
plaque to be installed in the lounge.Though Carson thinks "this year's seniors 
gave more input that those in the past," he 
cautions that other colleges have more 
ambitious senior gifts. This tradition was 
revived six years ago.
The class of 1985 donated the bar in 
Scotland Yard. Other recent gifts include the 
map of campus outside of Skibo and, of 
course, the Clock in front of Doherty.
Last year's seniors helped contribute to a 
renovation of the Doherty Hall entrance, due 
to get under construction. This project will 
include more benches and a widening of the 
concrete area to promote more social 
gathering. Also included are a wheelchair 
ramp into Doherty and a new bike rack.
Student Senate Endorses Tech HouseReferendum, Denies the Gaming Club Service Status
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffer iter
Student Senate Chairmen were elected 
at the first meeting for the new Senators last week. Dana Hausman was elected 
Public Relations Chairman and Shep 
Bostin was elected Rules Committee Chairman. Those re-elected are: Dave 
Goldstein, Senate Chairman; Norman 
Larson, Academic Affairs; Glenn 
Kombrek, Campus Affairs; Tamal 
Mukherjee and Elise Friedland, Funding 
and Recognition Co-Chairmen. Kerry Skolkin was elected as the new Treasurer.
In addition to the chairmen selection, 
Senate passed a motion to formally endorse the results of the "Tech House" 
referendum which narrowly opposed the destruction of the building (53.5 percent 
opposing). Newly elected Senator Jeff 
Trull, CIT, proposed the motion. A 
member of the audience emphasized that 
Tech House, the organization, is 
moving and nothing will stop that; 
however, many people are working to 
save "5125 Margaret Morrison Street, 
the building." Senator Tamal Mukherjee and others originally opposed the 
motion because it did not state what 
alternatives existed in place of the 
destruction. After temporarily tabling 
the motion so that other business could 
be accomplished, the motion was 
changed to read that 5125 Margaret 
Morrison St. be used for any of these 
purposes: a meeting, dining and
reception area for student organizations; 
a residence for "Hill" head resident and 
"Hill" area coordinator; an ombudsman's 
office; additional space for academic 
computing facilities; or for a small 
museum of the University's 80-year 
history. The motion was accepted and 
passed with only three opposing.
Also at the Senate meeting the 
Gaming Club asked for service club 
status because of the "SGI - strategic 
gaming initiative" they started which 
distributes games to the campus. 
Senate rejected the request because many 
Senators felt that the purpose of the 
club was primarily to play games.
Summer Renovations to Include ’Schlag, Tech Field 
and Bureau of Mines
-rMia -rMianpH
C>61> \C *TCT> py -Tv4« 
Clhs*, or \<\V7
By D. C. TA VERAS
Tartan Staffwriter What’s on the Physical Plant’s agenda for 
the summer? In the residence halls, the 
major maintence projects include up-grading 
Hammerschlag House. The rooms in 
Hammerschlag will receive new furnishings, 
the corridors will receive new hall lighting 
and new carperting, and the walls will be re­
painted. The corridors of the sixth and 
seventh floors of Morewood Gardens E-tower 
will also be up-graded. In the Bureau of 
Mines Buildings, Building A is currently 
under construction: before fall semester, it 
should have a new environmental system, as 
well as four classrooms and one auditorium. 
The latter are to make room for SUPA in the 
Fall. ROTC, presently located in the
basement of Porter Hall will be moving into 
the ground floor of the West Wing.
Other projects for the summer include: Tech Field: As soon as the temperature 
hits eighty, the new running surface will be 
laid.Porter Hall Entrance Plaza: The
plaza in between Porter and Wean Halls, 
which forms the ceiling of the Robotics 
Wing will be replaced.
Hunt Library: Cleaning of the
exterior.
A winner of the Architectural competition 
for the designing of the new residence hall 
around Donner will be chosen the first week 
of May. Construction of the new donn 
might begin next summer.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 3
Whatever Happened to SAMS?
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
"Our drive, our campaign, was a little lax," 
was Vice-Co-Chairman Chuck Palmer's 
assessment of this year's Students Against 
Multiple Sclerosis (SAMS) fundraising 
efforts. After raising over $23,000 last year, 
Palmer doesn't even know how much they 
have raised this year. Because, according to 
Palmer, SAMS' total fundraising is broken 
into what Alpha Tau Omega raises, what 
Theta Xi raises, and what the rest of the 
campus raises, he doesn't know the CMU 
community's total; ATO raised $1,200.
Reid Horovitz, Fundraising Chairman for 
Theta Xi, didn’t agree with Palmer. "This 
year we [Theta Xi] haven't done anything 
with them [SAMS]. They were not even in 
contact with us." Horovitz continued that 
Theta Xi raised over $13,000 for charity:
50% of which will go directly to the 
Allegheny MS Chapter.
Last year, one of SAMS' bigger events was 
its Rock-A-Like Airband competition; after 
being scheduled three times, this year's Rock- 
A-Like was finally cancelled. "We didn't 
have a Rock-A-Like this year through 
negligence on everyone’s part," said Palmer. 
"I think everyone was burnt out from last 
year." SAMS had also planned to hold $5.00 
"Haircuts for Charity", and to "can" for 
donations downtown.
SAMS did hold a balloon launch, sell 
sweatshirts, and have six fundraising parties: 
four at ATO and two at Theta Xi.
"We've looked at the things we've done 
wrong, and we really need to change 
them...next year we want to be more 
centralized, more organized, and we want to 
work more with the community," stated
Palmer. SAMS is going to change its 
solicitation method for next year. "We want 
to make it look like we're not asking for 
money- we want to give something for the 
money we recieve...one of the first things 
we're going to do next year is have a big 
barbeque on the Cut where we'll ask for a 
donation."
Other events planned for next year include a Walk-A-Thon through Schenley Park, a
"wacky Olympics", a celebrity roast for a 
local celebrity, parties centralized in the 
Ballroom, a "canning" day for both the 
downtown and Oakland areas, and 
"something like the Miracle Mile last year" 
where quarters were collected and laid end to 
end for a full mile. In addition, they want to 
hold all of the things they had scheduled this 
year.
Wohleber, Molotsky, Phillips and Doyno Take First Place in Adamson Awards
By D.C. TAVERAS
Tartan Staffwriter
The sixth annual Adamson Awards 
Ceremony, held Friday in the Adamson 
Wing was an evening of surprises. The 
ceremonies were opened by Head of the 
English Department, Gary Waller. Then 
Gerry Costanza, Associate Professor of 
English took the floor and dedicated the 
evening to Associate Professor Lynn Barret, 
calling her a "lady of grace and class." 
Professor Barret, who is leaving Carnegie 
Mellon, received strong applause as 
Professor Costanzo walked to her seat and 
handed her a bouquet.
Associate Professor Hilary Masters
introduced the guest speaker, Stanley Kunitz 
who has recently been appointed official 
state poet of New York by Governor Mario 
Cuomo. Mr. Kunitz read from The Poems of 
Stanley Kunitz, 1928-1978 and from Next to 
Last Things. After the reading. Prof. Masters 
joined Mr. Kunitz and presented the awards.
In the fiction category: Curt Wohleber took 
first place and Mark Carr took second and the 
Carnegie Mellon Press Award for Fiction 
went to Robert Holten. First place for the 
Non-Fiction for Professional Journals went 
to Brett Molotsky, second to Pamela Horn. 
In Non-Fiction for Magazines A'Dora 
Phillips took first place, with Arthur Glemis 
in second. In Poetry, the Academy of
American Poets' Prize went to Ken Doyno, 
and the Carnegie Mellon Press Prize went to 
Erica Quiroz. The first place in the 
Adamson Award for Poetry A'Dora Phillips 
again took first place, with a tie for second 
between Edie Locke and Charles Leggett.
In addition to her two first places, Ms. 
Phillips also received honorable mention in 
the Fiction category. "I was really 
surprised," said the Creative Writing/Literary 
and Cultural Studies major, "but in a way it's sad because everyone should be 
recognized. The money? It's great because 
I'm graduating and it's a nice bit of money to 
have." First place prize winners in the 
Adamson Awards get a $300 prize.
Activities Fee Referendum Results
(The following is an excerpt from a 
ballot included with Student Senate 
elections held April 15-16)
"For the 1986-1987 fiscal year, a total 
of $385,000 will be spent by 50 
student clubs. Since there are about 5500 fulltime students, this means 
that we are spending at a rate of $35/semester/student, even though 
each student is charged $30/semester. 
Under the current system, the 
Activities Fee is raised every four 
years with the idea that there will be more income than expenditure for the first two years, and there will be more 
expenditure than income over the 
second two years. It is the surplus 
income from the last increase in the Fee will be paying off the deficits 
expected during this and next year."
Students were given four options of 
the ballet: increasing the fee to 
$45/semester, increasing to $40 and 
appointing 2 students to study 
expenditures of organizations and 
reccommend methods of reduction, 
increasing to $35 and reducing all 
budgets accordingly, and increasing to 
$50 with the extra funds going to a 
special events account The $40 
increase received 366 votes, $45 
received 237, $35 received 269 and $50 
received 163.
Attention Juniors !!
Look for these things from 
CAREER SERVICES AND 
PLACEMENT 
in your summer mail...
• H&SS, IM, SWE Resume book Deadlines.
• Job search orientation, workshop, and special 
event information.
• Job and Graduate School Fair dates.
• Procedures for utilizing on-campus 
interviewing and other Career Services and 
Placement services.
This will be mailed to your permanent address, 
unless you inform us (in writing) of a different 
address.
Carnegie Mellon University’s Program 100 
International Peace and Security 
Announces
Imagine Peace
A Writing Competition
Can the threat of nuclear war be eliminated? Must regional and superpower conflicts lead 
to war? Can you imagine peace?
To make peace believable, it must be specif:-. Experimental psychology has demonstrated 
that people think in terms of concrete scenarios. People assign higher probabilities to out­
comes if it is easy to envision how they could come about. Such “scenario thinking” 
holds a potential in the search for peace. Novels, short stories, plays and movies can 
improve our ability to think about and visualize peaceful futures.
Carnegie Mellon University’s Program on International Peace and Security (IPS) is 
running a competition to encourage individuals and small groups to develop realistic 
scenarios for peace (no big wars, near wars, miracles, green men, or profound changes 
in human nature). Scenarios may, for example, describe how the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. 
resolve the cold war, or how peace is achieved in any of a number of regional conflicts.
Initial proposals (1500 words or less) and applications will be due in the Fall. Then, in 
the winter, fellowships of up to $5,000 or more will be awarded so that the best scenarios 
can be developed into finished, published form. Technical assistance and publicity will 
be furnished to improve and promote the results. In addition to the fellowships, various 
other awards and an opportunity to earn academic credit will be available to selected full 
time CMU and University of Pittsburgh students.
IPS hopes to involve people with a wide spectrum of political views, professions and ideas 
in this project; entry is open to all.
For details and a copy of application materials please telephone 261-1856 or write to 
“Imagine Peace”, Program on International Peace and Security, 129 Baker Hall,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.

---------------------------------------------------

’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle* >87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
• ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 This 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87'histle • ’8 
• ’87 This 
Thistle
’87 Thistle 
istle • ’87
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle* ’87 Thistle Thistle
Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thi 
Thistle • ’87lXhistl 
’87 
Thi 
’87 
Th 
’87 
This
’87 Thist 
Thistl 
’87
Thistle
’87 Thisfle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle
’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thi 
’87 Thistle • ’8 
Thistle • ’87 T 
’87 Thistle «
Thistle • ’87 TU 
’87 Thistle • ’8 
Thistle • ’87 Thi 
’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle
Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Th 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thi 
istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistl*^8 
’87 ThiVle 
’histle • Nu7 ’87 Thistle 
istle • ’8 
’87 Thist
histle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
• ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
t87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
£7 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
stle • ’87 
k Thistle 
tie • ’87 
dstl
'his 
’87 
ist!
’87 T 
Thistle 
’87 Th! 
histle 
’87 Th 
'histle
’87 Thii 
87TWst
5tle *^87
17 Thistle 
’87 
^Thistle 
’87 Thi 
"histle
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
¿stle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
tie • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
7 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
¡tie • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 This’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
le • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
• ’87 TViisflo •’8 ______
le J^fcistlg/ ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
87 di\Seu7 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
stle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 istle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle, • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle
istle
’87
’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle
• ’87 Thistle • ’87 • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thi J ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 1 I------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 histle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 87 Thist 7VTTnflTY-* 1 Vip ’ '^7 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 £\U * , C , ! i listle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thist ThlStle Will DC aCCepted — ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’8' niir pnHrp c+r\r«lr Vine Hustle •’87 Thistle • ’87Thistle • ’87 Thistle •’87 This OUT CllUie bLULK lido UCCll ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •w Th.stie* ^7 Thistle* ’87 reserved. Thanks to all of you *, ’87 *, ’87Thistle • 87 Thistle • 87 This , , , , J,, 87 Thistle • 87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 1 WHO JiaVe SUppOI*ted tne histle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thist -ir<=>ciT*Kr»nlr onrl ’ ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 yCdlUUUtt., clllU. 1C1UC1UUC1. listle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thist next VeaT OrdCF CaflV^ ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’8' |________J ’___________________________________I Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thisi ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle •
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 
Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • 
SUPPORTED 1Y YOU* ACTIVITIES FBH • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87 Thistle • ’87

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 5
Prof. WallerReceivesGuggenheim
PITTSBURGH—Gary Waller, head of 
Carnegie Mellon’s Department of English, has received a Guggenheim 
Fellowship from the John Simon 
Guggenheim Memorial Foundation for 
his work as a leading Rennaissance 
scholar and literary critic.Waller plans to use his fellowship to 
finish his latest book, “The Sidney Family and Rennaissance Cultural 
Contradiction.” The Guggenheim 
Foundation awards approximately 250 
fellowships each year (out of some 5,000 
applications) in recognition of highly 
distinguished and promising scholarly 
work.
Navy ROTC Unit is Coming to Carnegie Mellon This Fall
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
The only Navy ROTC in Western 
Pennasylvania is coming to Carnegie 
Mellon this fall. According to Commander 
Jack Farley, who will head the unit, the 
university had been corresponding with the 
Navy for about 10 years with regard to 
getting a unit, but a Congressional ceiling 
on the number of home units prevented the 
acqusition. However, Congress passed 
legislature allowing for 2 more units this year, one of which will be located here.
Currently there are 67 home units of 
NROTC nationwide. Reciprocal agreements 
with others allow hundreds of schools access 
to NROTC. AFROTC has an arrangement 
like this between Pitt and CMU. There will 
be no cross-enrollment with local schools 
the first year, although Farley foresees such 
an arrangement in the future.
Farley has found students to be "very 
receptive [to the program]...some 
sophomores have already stopped by and signed up." He is anticipating an initial class 
size of 15 - 20 students, which he expects to "expand tremendously next year" as a result 
of cross enrollment.
Enrollment in the NROTC program entails 
the following: male applicants must be 62- 
78 inches tall (66-78 for the Marines), 
females must be 60-78 inches (same for 
Marines), and weight for both sexes must be 
proportionate to height All applicants must 
be in good health. Students must be in good 
academic standing and are required to take a
sequence of naval science courses. Of these, two will be offered at CMU in the coming 
semester: Naval Laboratory and Introduction to Naval Sciencc. Enrollees will be on active 
duty for 6 weeks over the summer. This is 
switched between submarines, surface ships and flight school from summer to summer.
In return for their participation, an unlimited number of students will be 
eligible for full scholarships. These will 
provide for tuition, textbooks, fees, and a $100 per month stipend. Uniforms are also 
provided. Farley said that sophomores 
accepted into the unit will still be eligible
for the scholarships.
Once the program has established itself, Farley hopes to see NROTC become 
involved in more activities. Possibilities include sailing classes, a drill team, a shooting team, and anything else 
"determined by the students." Farley also mentioned the possibility of NROTC 
becoming active in IM sports and buggy.
Students interested in NROTC are asked to 
call Cdr. Farley at x2064. Until the office in 
the Bureau of Mines building is completed, 
he is located in Career Services and 
Placement, in the basement of Warner Hall.
Last fling before finals...Sunday afternoon's CHOC Concert crowded the CFA lawn with frisbees, lacrosse balls, hacky sack balls and students enjoying the un-Pittsburghish weather._______________________
Student Organizations
To receive information about next Fall’s Activities Fair, fill out the form below and turn it in to the Information Desk by Friday, May 1.
r----------------------------------------
Organization:
Summer Contact: 
Summer Address:
Summer Phone: ------(—)------
Return to Information Desk by May 1.
L______________________________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
Minutes of the Student Senate April 17, 1987
Meeting called to order 7:05pm 
Roll Call: Not available.
Audience Participation: Brian Wong
had complaints about the actions of the 
Student Union concerning their biased view 
of the senate elections and their lack of 
respect towards non-SU endorsed candidates. 
Senator Greenberg responded that Student 
Union was justified in its actions. Wong 
stated that SU violated rights by not letting 
non-editors rights.
Dean Cox: No report
President: Andy Robitshek: Hold
outside office hours.
SDC: Leanne Chu: No report 
IFC: Fred DeLeon: No report 
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin:
No reportChairman: Dave Goldstein: In
reference to short-term plan for Parking 
Spaces, a garage will be built allowing for 300 spaces.
Treasurer: Fred DeLeon: No report. Academic Affairs: Norman Larson:
There will be a lunch with four students to 
discuss core requirements.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kornbrek:
We have compiled results from the shuttle/escort Survey.
Funding & Recognition: Tamal
Mukherjee: Motion to give Gaming
Club service recognition Motion fails. 
Motion to recognize Education Action on 
Latin America as non-funded Motion 
passes.
Public Relations: Nadine Flynn:Sweatshirts are in!Rules: Allen Greenberg: Join rules
committee!Old Business: None.
New Business: Motion: That the
Student Senate formally endorse the results of the Tech House referendum by sending the 
following statement to the Director of 
Housing: "We, the Carnegie Mellon Student 
Senate, recommend that the architectural plans for the construction of the proposal 
Hill dormitory/cafeteria complex should 
provide that 5125 Margaret Morrison Street, currently known as Tech House, and 
formerly known as the Home Management 
House of Margaret Morrison College, will 
be preserved because of its traditional and 
historical significance to the campus. We suggest that the building be used for any of 
the following purposes:*For an Ombudsman's office.
?Residence for Hill Head Resident and Hill 
Area Coordinator.
* As meeting areas and dining and reception 
areas for student organizations.
*For additional space for Academic 
Computing facilities.
*For a small museum of the University's 80-year history."
Motion to table until after elections. 
Motion passed.
Open nominations for Student Senate 
Committee heads.
Motion that if one person is running they be accepted by acclimation. Motion passed. Open nominations for Chairman. 
Nominations: Norm Larson, Dave
Goldstein, Dave Lewis(declined)
Motion to close nominations: motion
passed.Dave Goldstein elected.
Open nominations for Chaiiperson of 
Academic Affairs.Nominations: Norman Larson.Motion to close nominations: motion
passed.Motion to accept by acclimation: motion 
passed.
Open nominations for Chairperson of 
Campus Affairs.Nominations: Glenn Kornbrek.
Motion to close nominations: motion
passed.Motion to accept by acclimation: motion 
passed.
Open nominations for Chairperson of 
Funding & Recognition.
Nominations: Tamal Mukerjee
Motion to close nominations: motion
passed.Motion to accept by acclimation: motion 
passed.Open nominations for Vice-Chairperson. 
Nominations: Elise Friedland.Motion to close nominations: motion
passed.
Motion to accept by acclimation: motion passed.
Open nominations for Chairperson of Public Relations.
Nominations: DanaHausman
Motion to close nominations: motionpassed.
Motion to accept by acclimation: motion passed.
Open nominations for Chairperson of Rules Co.
Nominations: Shep Bostin, AllenGreenberg.
Motion to close nominations: motionpassed.
Shep Bostin elected.
Open nominations for Treasurer. 
Nominations: Kerry Skalkin, Fred DeLeon 
Motion to close nominations: motionpassed.
Kerry Skalkin elected.
Motion to remove Tech House resolution 
from floor. Motion passed. Motion to accept resolution as stated. Motion passed.
Points of Discussion: None. 
Announcements: Next meeting will be 
the first Tuesday after Summer.Meeting Ajoumed 9:30pm.
r -AleglhnyF oAdTdFh uAyc TycdyFd kyg BlF BygFh yFaa
Can’t necessarily count on Mom and Dad 
to come through with a four-wheeled 
graduation present? Too bad. But don’t 
despair. You can count on Bowser 
Pontiac/Subaru to help you buy or lease 
an exciting new Pontiac yourself. Your 
credit is already approved. Those 
sporty Pontiacs are waiting. So 
come out, make your best 
Bowser deal, and then get a 
very special present.
Want more info?
Call Gene Larkin or 
Craig Hout at 892-2112. 
Then come out to Bowser 
with the valuable coupon.
A DEALER YOU CAN COUNTON
IIIIBOWSERPONTIAC • SUBARU
1400 Lebanon Church Road 
(Near Century III Mall)
aaa bgTh oAdTdFh hCd BygoyF
If you’re a graduating college senior or 
grad student with verifiable employment, 
you can take advantage of the special 
1987 GMAC college graduate finance 
plan, sponsored by GMAC and Bowser. 
The Plan pre-approves your credit on a 
1987 Fiero, Trans Am, Grand Am, Fire­
bird, Sunbird, or any other hot new 
Pontiac. Whatever model you choose, you 
can count on Bowser to give you the 
best deal around. And to make your 
deal even better, just give us the 
coupon. It entitles you to a $400 
discount on your down pay­
ment* or a 90-day deferral of 
your first payment!
*5% of the purchase price or a security deposit 
equal to two leased payments._____________
r pJxx OFF 1
¦ Program ends April 30,1988. Purchase or lease §
agreement must be made within six months prior to,I
 or one calendar year following, the date of gradua- I
tion. Maximum amount financed will not exceed *1
95% of the manufacturer’s suggested retail price. -
Maximum financing term—60 months; maximum §
lease term—48 months. Students with history of
¦ collection problems ineligible. ¦
IIIIBOWSERPONTIAC • SUBARU 1
| 1400 Lebanon Church Road I
(Near Century III Mall)
Help brim 
the world together. 
Host an
student
International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, brings teenagers from other coun­tries to live for a time with American families and at­tend American schools. Learn about participating as a volunteer host family.
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009
I$The International Youth Exchange.
Time to... Care More, Share More
United W^u
vi'-v

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 7
Crime and Incident Report
4/19 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS8:03 pm 2 students in rear stairwell of Hunt Library banging on doors.
4/19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 5:57 
pm MMCH Objects being thrown out of 3rd floor window.
4/20 THEFT occurred between 12 pm 
(4/17) and 12 pm (4/20) Table removed from Baker.
4/20 THEFT 6:41 pm MG currency removed from a room.$65
Student attempted to remove a chair from Porter Hall.
4/23 THEFT occurred between 9:30 pm (4/22) and 12 am Purse removed from 
Doherty. Was later found with everything but $50.
4/24 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 2:29 
am MI Bldg. checked, couldn’t be found.
4/24 DISORDERLY CONDUCT
3:20 am 2 frats engaged in pranks, altercation ensued.
4/20 BURGLARY occurred between 8pm (4/18) and noon (4/19) $290 removed 
from room in Schlag.
4/20 ARREST FOR INDECENT 
EXPOSURE, HARRASSMENT
AND CRIMINAL TRESSPASS 3:28 
pm MG Student in lounge noticed a male exposing self. Was arrested by CMU Police.
4/21 ASSAULT 5:29 am outside 
Mudge 2 students in heated domestic argument, one pushed other.
4/24 THEFT typewriter.12:54 am MG Electric
4/22 THEFT 4 
removed from a frat.pm 10-speed bike
4/23 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 2:54 am
4/24 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 1:56am Rock thrown through 5th Ave entrance to MI.
4/25 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 12:06am 2nd floor Schlag A-tower, exit sign thrown out window.
4/25 ASSIST OUTSIDE
AGENCY/CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
12:15 am Frat brother threw beer bottle at City Polic Lt.'s car. Lt. gave him a warning.
4/25 THEFT and RECOVERY 4:25 
am Pitt Police returned a CMU fire
CMU Craig Street Gallery 
Directors to Discuss 
Options at May Meeting
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News EditorCarnegie Mellon's Craig Street Gallery has had its share of controversy this semester. Stemming from reports of improper 
behavior exhibited by the students at 
openings, the Board of Directors felt it was 
time to examine and clarify the Gallery's function. One proposed solution was to 
limit attendance at openings to members 
only. This option was hotly debated at a 
meeting Gallery Director and CFA Professor 
Elaine King held with students and faculty 
from CFA several weeks ago. Several people 
who brought up alternatives at this meeting 
were asked to save them for a meeting the 
following week (two weeks ago) with CFA 
Dean Akram Midani. Among the ideas 
discussed were:
• Inviting artists to CMU for critiques
• Using the Gallery for grad student, faculty 
and local artist shows over the summer, 
when the Gallery is normally closed
• Holding biennial faculty shows at the Gallery
• Posting a Director's letter to keep the 
campus informed of what is going on at the Gallery
• Endowing the Gallery• Beginning a new CMU Gallery
Art Department Head Orville Winsand will 
present the complete list of ideas to the 
Board of Director's at their May meeting. 
When questioned about the likely outcomes of his; presentation, Winsand deferred 
questions to Midani, claiming "he knows 
more about it than I do." Midani wasn't 
certain as to whether the situation was even 
on the Board's agenda, although Director 
King dsserted that it was. Winsand did state 
that he was going to recommend that 
students be admitted to openings, citing the 
educational value therein.
King doesn't expect many of the 
suggestions to become policies of the 
Gallery. Her response to the questions of using the Gallery during its off-season was that this "is not going to happen...it is not 
that kind of gallery." She stressed the
extinguisher found in the middle of 5th Ave.
4/26 MEDICAL 12:49 am Student 
cleaning meat slicer in Scotland Yard kitchen 
cut finger on slicei while reading a sign 
above the slicer explaining why people 
should wear gloves when cleaning the slicer.
Summer to have "Little Effect" on 
Contract Talks
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Contract negotiations continue "meeting 
by meeting" between Carnegie Mellon and 
Local 29 of the Service Employees 
International Union. As of press time, union 
leadership, CMU negotiators, and a Federal 
Mediator had met Tuesday and had scheduled 
another meeting Monday. No progress was reported at Tuesday's meeting.
Lisa Wiedman, Director of Personnel and 
Spokesperson for CMU, said that summer 
break would have little or no effect on 
negotiations. Most Physical Plant workers work through the summer, and University 
Dining Service employees are either layed 
off or work with American Building 
Maintenance. All Local 29 employees are 
working under an interim agreement which 
is the same as the contract that expired last November.
Ralph Terry, Secretary-Treasurer and 
spokesman for Local 29, could not be 
reached for comment
there is itute for expepenee.
i ;>»'•«,. •• r¡" »i>,>I
Subscribe to The Will Street Journal, and enjoy student savings of up to $4& That’s quite a bargain, especially when you consider what it really represents: Tuition for the real world
Pro subscribe, call 800-257-1200,* Ext »66 tol-free~l
| O mail to The Wall Sired Journal, 500 3rd Ave W. Seattle, WA 961)9
I ? Send me 15 weeks fiw $26 ? ftyment enclosed. ? Bill me latei| Name____________________________I Student I D.#_____Address_________Grad. Munth/Yfear_
74SNT The Wáll Street Journal. 2 664The doth chary Hie Amtnam dreamLrH
purpose of the gallery as a teach-by-example "Kunsthalle", not a division of the Art 
Department According to her the Gallery is currently booked solid up through February of 1989, except for the faculty show. 
Because the bookings are done so far in 
advance and the artists' schedules are so 
jammed, she doesn't see how the artists 
could find time to come to campus for crits in addition to having their exhibits. This 
also allows little room for shows of local 
works that aren't booked so far in advance, 
although she did claim that a fair number of 
local talent and faculty is included in some 
exhibits.
The annual show of CMU faculty works 
will continue without changes.
King would like to begin a newsletter of 
sorts for the students and faculty to keep them abreast of upcoming events at the 
Gallery. "That is going to happen," she said. With regard to the University's endowing 
the Gallery or severing ties and beginning a new gallery, King declined on-the-record 
comment. Her only quotable statement about 
it was that "the students have 2 galleries already, the Ellis, the Forbes and the Hewlett 
for MFA shows..." which, according to her, 
is more than most other Art Departments 
have.King feels the situation is no longer a 
major issue, although it will be discussed at 
the Board meeting. Apparantly students will 
be given another chance to attend openings 
and she "foresees no problems in future 
openings if they conduct themselves the way 
they did at the last opening." She cites the requiring of identification at the bar as the 
primary factor in the way the evening turned 
out
The Craig Street Gallery's fall season 
begins in September with a 2-month 
celebration of drawing entitled "Drawings 
From the 80's" and is in collaboration with 
' The Carnegie, Pittsburgh Plan for Art, The 
Frick Fine Arts Building and The Mattress 
Factory. Regional and national artists will 
be'exhibited.'
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
_ondon Dock
Spring has arrived and so have the exciting new 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, 
Polo, Alexander julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill 
421-5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
781-0811
HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT A CAREER IN PUBLIC HEALTH?
We specialize in preparing people from all aca­
demic and employment backgrounds for public health specialties tailored to their interests.
You Can Become A HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATOR AN INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 
A RESEARCHER A TOXICOLOGIST A BIOSTATISTICIAN 
AN EPIDEMIOLOGIST A HEALTH PHYSICIST A LABORATORY DIRECTOR A GENETIC COUNSELOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST
For information, call 412/624-3002 
or write to 115 Parran Hall,Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTHUniversity of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Tartan awards 
Thistles and 
Thorns
Thistle: The Student Union for presenting good, in- depth coverage of issues and events.
Thorn: The Student Union for tasteless, unethical 
journalism as exemplified by the election issue 
and the copyright scandal.
Thistle: Professors Feinberg and Klepper for
offering their faces at the Theta Xi/Tri-Delt pie- 
throw for MS; also to those who sat on the pole 
or otherwise contributed to the fund drive.
Thorn: Housing for neglecting the fraternity houses 
and failing to act on student complaints.
Thistle: The vali-dine system that allows students to 
make purchases at all campus stores with I.D. 
cards.
Thistle: Mr. and Mrs. Powell for generous support 
of the Tartan staff. Thanks especially for the 
good food.
Thorn: Sweepstakes Chairman Shawn Stufft for 
opening the course before the final heats. A rain 
delay would have been enough.
Thorn: The Pittsburgh Police who left their stations 
after opening the course, rather than awaiting 
further instructions from the Sweepstakes 
Chairman.
Thorn: Beta buggy chairman who couldn't control 
himself during closing ceremonies. Be good 
sports and just accept your second place trophy 
next time, guys.
Thistle: Student Government President Jim
Denburg for winning students a second reading 
day this semester.
Thorn: The City of Pittsburgh for neglecting the 
campus wiring that caused the recent blackout.
Thistle: Duquesne Light for expeditiously jumping 
on the blackout and rectifying the situation.
Thorn: University Planning and Development for 
seeking to demolish Tech House.
Thistle: University Dining for improving the food.
Thorn: The Craig Street Gallery Board of Directors 
for passing the action that excluded students 
from gallery openings without involving 
students and faculty in the decision.
Thistle: Vice President Pat Crecine and Assistant 
Vice President Tom Neudecker for their support 
in the installation of a desktop typesetting 
system at The Tartan.
Thistle: The students who built the shanty on 
campus. 
Thorn: The students who built the shanty on 
campus and then took it down for no apparent 
reason. 
Thistle: All those who made the Crime and Incident 
Report possible. 
Thistle: Alumni Relations for a conceiving the idea 
to hold a nice senior banquet somewhere off 
campus. 
Thorn: Alumni Relations for poor execution of a 
good idea. 
Thorn: Seniors who lacked the maturity to behave at 
the senior banquet and screwed it up for future 
senior classes. 
Thorn: AB Dance for planning the most extravagant 
dance of the year on the same night as theWinter 
Ball. 
Thorn: All those who were supposed to publicize 
campus events like lectures and never did. How 
many of you knew that Governor Thornburgh 
was going to be lecturing on campus. Three 
signs put up the day before the lecture don't 
quite cut it.
Carnegie 
Mellon .Inc.
Letters:English Student Criticizes Termination of Popular Prof
Editor:
I am writing to formally protest 
the H&SS promotion committee’s 
decision to fire Lynne Barrett, a 
creative and professional writing 
professor in the English Depart­
ment. There is nothing good to say 
about this decision. Period. Aside from personal disgust at the 
thought — and reality — of such 
stupidity and self-centeredness ( the 
policy reeks of self-congratulatory motives), I am livid over the 
patent disregard for student welfare 
which this vote makes clear.
The committee’s decision hinged 
on, of course, publishing require­
ments, a category which includes 
research, publication (in a short- 
story collection or novel, in this 
case), and broader contributions to 
the field of education. Lynne did
not, apparently fulfill specific 
publishing requirements outlined 
in her contract. I do not dispute this.
Rather, I object to the entire system, which values contri­
butions to other professors and other universities over contribu­
tions within the classroom and the 
department.
Of course the time Lynne spends 
teaching writing students will 
detract from the time she might 
devote to her own writing, or to 
self-promotion at other universi­
ties. But to fire someone for caring 
about students and dedication to 
quality writing is a laughably 
stupid mistake, both politically 
and intellectually. Unfortunately, it 
is also a reality.
I find it shameful that professors
and students alike have been sucked 
into believing this “publish or 
perish” philosophy. I applaud 
Lynne’s obstinacy and her 
rejection of this false standard. 
She, as a writer, undoubtedly 
realizes that hasty workmanship 
breeds poor results, as well as alienating the audience. She 
certainly promotes high—stellar, 
even—standards in her classes.
The committee’s policy is very close to alienating its primary 
audience, the student body. Such poor standards beg for revision, if 
the committee plans to attract a favorable audience, and maintain 
good standing. Grade: F.
Jean E. Cooksey 
Professional Writing/ Literary and Cultural Studies
SAE’s Criticize Tartan Reporting
Editor:
On more than one occasion this 
semester your articles have been 
inaccurate and offensive, and on 
more than one occasion this 
ineptness has been at the cost of 
the fraternities on campus (i.e. the 
ATO rape scandal, etc.). The 
particular article that this letter is 
repsonding to is the article entitled 
“Fights, Crowds Hurt Carnival” 
which reports some of the 
misconduct that occured over 
Spring Carnival. In this article you blatantly reported an event that 
simply never happened. According 
to your story:
“A short time later a group of 
white males coming from the area 
of ATO approached several black 
males in the area between Skibo 
and Warner Hall. Eyewitnesses 
reported that the Carnegie Mellon 
students started harassing the other 
group. Pushing lead to punching 
and one of the Carnegie Mellon 
students received a broken nose. 
City police arrived at the scene and 
several arrests were made.”
The implications and blatant
statements contained in this story 
are innacurate at best and outright 
myth at worst. From this quote, 
one would assume that a group of 
ATO’s ran across Forbes Avenue 
and assaulted a black visitor to our 
campus for no apparent reason. 
This is nearly slanderous in its 
inaccuracy. However, the article’s 
ambiguity falls short of any 
definite asscertations by using 
phrases like “the area of ATO” and 
“eyewitnesses reported.” This ambiguity may be admirable for a 
writer of political speeches, but it 
cannot be regarded as journalism. 
Why didn’t you specify who was 
arrested (i.e. The CMU students or the “black males”)? Why did you 
only quote an eyewitness and not 
the more accurate police report?
In the actual event, three SAE 
fraternity brothers were accosted 
and assaulted while walking back from midway by a group 
(approximately ten) of black 
teenagers. This is how the incident 
was described in the police report. A knife was reportedly drawn, and 
one of the SAE’s was taken to
Presbyterian Hospital with a
broken nose and lacerations of the 
face. At one point during the fight 
one of the SAE’s fled to his house 
to seek assistance in the
threatening situation. He returned 
with a large group of his brothers 
and the assailants fled. One of the 
black assailants was arrested on the scene, and four others were picked 
up later.
James R. Williams III 
William R. Blake 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Editor's Note: The material in 
the article "Fights, Crowds Hurt 
Carnival" was taken directly from 
the campus police reports as quoted 
to a Tartan reporter by Sergeant 
Sima on Monday, April 13 at 2:30 
am. Lieutenant Wetzel at the Sixth 
Precinct of the Pittsburgh Police 
had no information on the fights. 
The eyewitness mentioned in the 
article, a Chatham student, was not 
The Tartan's eyewitness, but rather 
campus police's.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment Comics 
Classifieds Events
Beautiful Music From Pittsburgh Steel Mills
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
If you take a ride towards downtown, you 
will no doubt pass the massive J & L Steel 
Mill. Once one of the largest and most productive of it’s day, it is now dormant, 
gathering dust. Although J & L and other 
plants may be closed down for good, the 
sounds of steel mills are being heard in an 
entirely new way.
Thanks to the release of Carnegie Mellon 
Professor of Music Leonardo Balada’s Steel Symphony, one can get the sensation of 
what an active steel mill sounds like. I should stress the word sensation, since the 
piece does not try to recreate the actual 
sounds of a mill, but is rather a collection of 
musical ideas inspired by the mills. Though 
the piece is over 15 years old, it is with the recent release of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra’s recording with Music 
Consultant, Lorin Maazel, conducting; that the work is getting national exposure.
Leonardo Balada was bom in Barcelona, 
Spain in 1933. He came over to the United 
States in 1956 to pursue his music studies 
in New York. The school he was attending 
closed and he took up work as a tailor in the 
garment district (he was originally trained to 
be a tailor by his father). He eventually went 
to Julliard School and studied composition 
with Aaron Copland, Alexandre Tansman, 
Vincent Persichetti, and Igor Markevitch. 
Although these great composers did 
influence the way Balada approaches a 
composition, his style does not fall into a 
particular category. “They effected the way I 
think about a piece, but not really how I feel 
about it,” says Balada.
In 1970 he joined the faculty of Carnegie 
Mellon as a professor of composition. While 
at the university, Balada has written 
numerous operas, sonatas, concertos, and 
musical poems. Often writing his pieces on 
a particular subject or theme, the Steel 
Symphony was his musical tribute to the 
sounds of the city.
Upon hearing the sounds of the heavy 
machinery from a bus, Balada discovered that 
the cacophony of sounds did have some 
rhythm and sonority. He began to put 
together a piece which would work off of 
these sounds, and molded them into
symphonic form. Since many of the sounds 
which Balada wanted to incorporate could not 
easily be produced by the traditional 
orchestra equipment, the piece calls for some 
unorthodox extras. The most unusual of the 
lot is a “large piece of wood” (how large is 
large is up to the player) struck by a 
hammer. These new sounds do take some 
getting used to but, they add color and 
texture to the work.
The pièce begins with a tuning note, the 
A chord, and the orchestra goes directly into 
the work from the warm up. It begins to 
develop into a repeating rhythm. The 
sections of the orchestra works in unison 
here, but are soon juxtaposed against each 
other. There is no central theme, or any 
distinct melody. Only, powerful, driving 
rhythms creating a sense of activity and 
power. During one portion of the piece, 
Balada gives the conductor choice on how 
many times a pattern is to be repeated.
Winding down to the end of the 16 - 19 
minute symphony, we are taken back to 
where we started, the tuning note A. “This 
symbolizes that the mills never stop, 
everything is continuous,” he says. Balada 
even suggests that the piece can blend right 
into the next selection of the program.
Despite the fact that the recent CD recording has gotten favorable reviews, 
Balada asserts that the piece was meant to be 
heard live. “There is so much activity, 
especially visual, going on while the piece 
is being played that there is more to it than 
the sounds,” Balada says. It is unfortunate 
that the work does not get preformed that often, so the recording is the onlv 
alternative. The recording is of the highest 
quality and the CD is especially good due to 
the brightness and clarity of sound. It ads a 
certain energy to the recording that brings 
the work to life. It is powerful and moving 
and the orchestra plays solidly throughout
Years ago the city’s steel mills put Pittsburgh at the center of it all, and it is 
interesting to hear a piece that is 
representative of this power.
During 1987, Balada will have — in 
addition to a U.S. premiere by the 
Philadelphia Orchestra — three world 
premieres: “Sinfonia Concertante” with 
guitarist Narciso Yepes and the National Orchestra of Spain in Madrid. This work 
will performed again in Tokyo in June by 
the touring National Orchestra of Spain; the 
opera “Columbus” at the teatro del Liceu in 
Barcelona in which Jose Carreras and 
Montserrat Cabelle will simg the lead roles 
of Christopher Columbus and Queen Isabella 
respectively, and “Fantaias” with the Pitts­
burgh Symphony, a piece dedicated to the 
opening of the Benedum Center for the 
Performing Arts in downtown which will be performed in the fall.
The Pajama Game Offers Two Hours Plus of Sheer Enjoyment
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Assistant Entertainment Editor 
If you can possibly squeeze it into your 
hectic finals week schedule, The Pajama 
Game will reward you with an exuberant two
This Week at the 
Kresge Theater
and a half hour escape from your worries. 
This production is sheer fun, something 
that’s been missing from Carnegie Mellon 
Drama Department offerings of late. While it 
may seem that a play about a strike in a 
pajama factory back in 1954 wouldn’t make 
for many laughs, a few standout 
performances and a marvelous set make this
show entertaining and definitely worth 
catching.The set by Brian Webb is a smooth 
concoction of moving platforms and 
authentic 50’s-looking backdrops. The 
scenes constantly change before our eyes, 
going from inside to outside the factory, 
from the yearly picnic to the dingy 
managerial office, from the heroine’s modest 
home to the glitz of Hernando’s Hideaway, 
and so on. Visually, there’s never a dull moment, and the set is so realistic that it’s 
easy to just enjoy it without having to 
interpret it.Backed by this handsome set, the story of 
life in the Sleeptite Pajama Factory springs 
to life. All the other workers in the industry 
have been given a seven and a half cent wage 
continued on page D9
The Dave Brubeck Quartet to Preform at Harpers
Walt Harper, Pittsburgh’s premiere jazz 
artist, made one of the great coups in his 
successful career, and it had nothing to do with his performing. It was getting Dave 
Brubek to perform at his club Harper’s in 
One Oxford Center, for three days in 
April: the 28th, 29th, and 30th. Asked 
how he accomplished thf feat of booking 
Brubek, who actually does only concerts 
and has turned down engagements at such noted clubs as the Blue Note in New 
York City, Harper replies with a wink, “I 
guess it’s because we’re both piano 
players.” But it is known that both 
Brubek and Harper have been friends for some years and when they both appeared 
at Heinz Hall last year at the Murray 
Louis Dance Concert, Harper approached 
Brubek about the possibility.
Brubek first captivated jazz audiences some forty years ago in San Francisco by 
his use of odd-metered time signatures 
and his emphasis on improvisation and 
harmonic experimentations.
Dave Brubek and his Quartet have performed before every President since the 
Kennedy administration, and has twice 
been chosen to entertain visiting heads of 
state at the White House, where in June, 
1986, after an encore of “Take the A 
Train,” President Reagan told Brubek, “I 
don’t know how much easier you could 
shed 50 years in so short of time.”
Not only has the Dave Brubek Quartet 
recently toured with the Murray Louis 
Dance Company, that continues to excite 
both music and dance critics in the United
continued on page D9

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
/ SUMMER \ I 1987 FILMS0 |CLrj &cn cd
If you thought that this summer’s crop of movies is going to be the same old stuff, then think again. Thanks to the creative folks at DeLaurentiis Entertainment Group there is a film this summer which will offer you the chance to win a million dollars. Yes, movies and the lottery have finally combined in the action adventure comedy, Million Dolar Mystery. The film is basically It’s A Mad,Mad, Mad, Mad World 80’s style. The twist is that there is 4 million up for grabs but the characters in the film only find three. It’s up to you to figure out where the fourth million is hidden. The clue is that the location has something to do with bridges. There are clues throughout the film and you can alos obtain a clue sheet in specially 
marked packages of Glad Bags (Tom Bosley is in the film). The winner will be chosen from all the correct entries recieved by December 31,
1987. There is no purchase neccessary and you don’t have to see the film to figure it out, but it sure couldn’t hurt.
A whole town of hip, rock-star, Vampires in The Lost Boys Anne Margaret gets involved with a C.Thomas Howell in A Tigers Tale
The Believers, starring Martin Sheen, 'will explore the world of the ocultSteven Spielberg’s Innerspace stars Martin Short(above) and Dennis Quaid
A comic book fantasy, action 
adventure comedy in RoboCop
Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket 
gives another look at Vietnam.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page D3
Look for Madonna as an ex-convict 
in Who’s That GirlAs well as Burt Reynolds as a 
former CIA man in MaloneJack Nicholson, Cher, Susan Sarandon, and Michelle Pfeiffer star 
of the supernatural in The Witches of Eastwick
Three Stodges comedy from The Fat Boys in Disorderlies
Nick Notle and Maria Conchita Alonso star in Extreme PredjudiceSummer Heat is a romantic suspense thriller with a twist

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
A Less Than Average Bundle of New Records
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Record Critic
Vigil
VigilChrysalis
Vigil is a band caught between art and sales. 
On one hand, they could produce catchy but 
inane pop, while on the other hand, they 
could produce intriguing dance tunes. With 
their debut album, the band proves that they 
haven't made up their minds yet. As a result, 
most of the album is only mildly interesting 
dance pop with obscure lyrics. However, 
they show their potential with “Gargoyles”, 
which, in spite of a ridiculous choral intro, 
is a really good song with a rhythm that 
fairly drags you out of your chair. (The silly 
lyrics are still there, but if you notice, you 
aren’t dancing fast enough.) Unfortunately, 
it’s in the minority - the rest of the album is 
fairly mundane synth pop. The band sounds 
promising (kind of like Planet Earth-style
Duran Duran would have sounded if Gary 
Numan was their singer), but this album 
doesn’t sound like the best they could do. 
Wait for their next one.Tartan Record Grade: 2.25
IAI
Gowan
Great Dirty World 
Columbia
Gowan-without-a-first-name has a great 
voice, kind of like Mick Hucknall’s (of 
Simply Red) but higher, that is really 
interesting to listen to. However, he can’t 
write good songs, and his backing band 
never gets any energy going. Find this guy a 
new band and a songwriter and try again. 
Tartan Record Grade: 2.25
Gino VannelliBig Dreamers Never Sleep
Columbia
I have never liked Gino Vannelli, and this 
album is no great improvement. Why? 
Because he is boring. That’s boring with a 
capital “dull”. He sings moderately clever 
lyrics over competent synthesizer-based 
music that flows nicely from song to song 
(kind of like whitewash). Vannelli never 
seems to get excited, or angry, or sad, or 
anything even remotely energetic (although 
he gets passionate a lot), and the music 
shows it. Dull, dull, dull. Shun it.
Tartan Record Grade: 2.0
Patti Smyth 
Never Enough 
Columbia
So now Patty Smyth is completely Scandal- 
free. Don't worry, nothing has changed. 
(Although this could be a reason for
YOU JUST GOT THE KEY TO YOUR FUTURE
I rr YOUR WORLD CLASSLt I PITTSRURGH IrYOU RUOW WrLDrOCAND FORD CREDIT HELP YOU GET THE KEYS TO YOUR NEW CAR.
The key ingredient in your new car pur­
chase can be pre-approved credit from 
Ford Credit and your World Class 
Pittsburgh Metro Ford Dealers. If you
are working on an advanced degree or 
graduating with a Bachelor's Degree ^ 
between October 1,1986 and Sep- a
tember 30,1987, you may qualify § 
for this special college graduate 
purchase program.
If you do, you'll receive a $400 cash 
allowance from Ford. Make your best deal
on any qualifying vehicle and use the money 
toward your down payment, or Ford will send
you a $400 check after the purchase or lease. 
The money is yours whether you finance 
or not-~ The amount of your credit
depends on which of these qualified
- vehicles you choose:
I Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus. 
Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II, 
Ranger.
So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock
you must order by June 1,1987, and you must 
take delivery of any vehicle by August 31,1987.
GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT
worrying, depending on your point of view.) 
This time out, Smyth has recruited Hooters 
Rob Hyman and Eric Bazilian for some help 
on writing and backup, as well as David 
Sanborn for a 30 second sax solo (that still 
doesn’t fit, although he does a good job with 
it). As a result, the album has a nice p0p 
glaze to most of it, with some of the tracks 
sounding like the Hooters with a female lead 
and no melódica. Overall, this album would 
be greatly improved if Smyth would just 
relax (and if someone would hamstring the 
producer). Songs like “Call to Heaven”, a 
very well written song about war (not any 
one in particular, just war in general), would 
be much better if Smyth and cohorts didn’t 
feel the need to turn them into anthems with 
Emotional Singing and Swamping 
Production. The best songs on the album are 
the ones in which she isn’t trying so hard, 
like “The River Cried”, which sounds like 
nothing more than pre-pomographic Olivia 
Newton-John, and a little untitled snippet 
that closes the album, and is about the only 
thing on the album that shows off Smyth's 
voice well. A good effort that would have 
been better as less of one.
Tartan Record Grade: 3.0
Dr. John
The Night Tripper Alligator Rockback Series
This is really strange stuff, kind of like folk 
music as seen through an old Coke bottle -
you recognize the music as folk music, but 
you aren’t really sure what the folk that 
make it must look like. Dr. John’s album 
(first released in 1968) consists of very 
rhythmic and melodic (in a strange way) 
music that conjures up images of white-man 
Cajun voodoo. Like reading a novel in a 
foreign language, the album is intriguing 
but somewhat incomprehensible. It’s worth 
at least one listen, and more if it makes 
sense in any way. (The last song, “I Walk 
On Gilded Splinters” is the most accessible, 
and a good place to start.)
Tartan Record Grade: 3.5
Mondo Rock 
Boom Baby Boom 
Columbia
The first song, “Primitive Love Rights”, is 
clever and danceable; the second song. 
“Boom Baby Boom” (about overpopulation), 
is worse, and the album goes downhill from 
there. Mondo Rock is a bunch of guys 
trying too hard to look like they’re having a 
good time, and as a result, the album is 
anything but fun. Shun it.
Tartan Record Grade: 1.25
Time toCareMore,ShareMore
• • •
Allegheny Ford Truck
SOUTHSIDE
Babe Charapp Ford
McKEESPORT
John Coxon & Sons Ford
•’87’8TViis
Donehoo Ford
BELLEVUE
E.A. Motors
f8VlosTViis
Humes Brothers Ford
ASPINWAll
McCratkin Ford
Re8t• •Viiu
Jim McKain Ford
WEXFORD
Ramsey-Sturman Ford
WEST MIFFLIN
Bob Smith Ford
CASTLE SHANNON
Stuckey-imes Ford
FOREST HILLS
Tolarico Motors
MOON TOWNSHIP
Target Ford
MONROEVILLE
Woltz ft Wind Ford
HEIDELBERG

---------------------------------------------------

i i s / : ! / / / / / / / / / / / / / J / ;¦¦: f ; / / / /./ / / / / /// /////// /// .
'¦ ! ; ; r ? / - / ? / / / / / ; / / / / / / ,? , • /U / / ////// ////////////// ///////¦'"/ Ví / // / ////////////yyy, //^
CCa > f / fÿj /y f/yyrCCCCCCnC n eC nCCgi; : ;• / / / f /./ f f ff f/f/f///////////...............>/7///W/y///////^
CC ///y /////y // /y// / / , / ' y
s//SAS/YsA/ssy.s's:s\s'~s'U'>it>
¦; i ; < •• / / .• / .• / .• / / {i ,¦ y
i¡H;!¡Í¡Wyff//M
Mlo.Ic G$2l0O$ F2d.Ic 
LL Iu 0oGdk U Su
MozzareHfeStkki $115
Batter-Dipped Vegetables 915» tbroccal^ciullflower and asparagus 
' " ¦ ‘ ' ¦ ¦ ’*• 'Chicken N'uggeU * 'mguiww «45, urge «2) »-IS ,, « *
Carne griiMlo.IcG$2 20OF2oaMld2Me Lu :'*• .V -» kUU2iu SnIMeSt anrsenIew sweet h>gIP2jA0n s^uc*, Wcy gISonrdw OMnng Colg
Chip* Jt SalM 75*
Nadu» SIX
Nachos Grandespicy beef, refried bean cur a combination of both on nacko chip« with shredded lettuce, 
tomatoes, onions, salsa, cheese, and sour creambeef S2.75, bean $2 90, combo $2.95
jalapena peppers or extra sour cream on Mexican food IS*
Garlic Bread 90«
Bread, Cheese & Fruitport salut, havarti and allouette cheeses with french bread and seasonal fruits regular $2.00, large $3.25 extra allouette 25«
Garden S*!*d S2JG0fresh lettuce, tomato,green pepper sunflower seeds 
Italian or ranch dressinganS choice no
French Bread Sandwich«« S2.3Vpastrami, roast beefor turkey breast swiss or cheddar cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, mayonaise and mustard
Pita Pockets $2.25tuna or chicken salad in pita bread, lettuce and tomato
Brown Bag Lunch $375a pita sandwich, yogurt, Soho soda and piece of fruit, ready to go until 2pm
The Hot Tomato $1.45sliced tomato, mozzarella cheese and Italian spices on a pita, served hot
Pizza Bread $1.25toppings: pepperoni, ground beef or green pepper 25« each
The Scottie Dog 75«
Yogurt 65«Piece of Fruit 30«
ks Cream $1.00ask about today's flavors chocolate or strawberries 25«
Cakes SI TScheesecake, triple chocolate cake or hot apple pie a la mode
Soda or topclassic askn diet coke, sprite;* ramirth»' foot beer#has 55* Ditcher MX
Jolt Soda 2Soalt the sugar and twice the cafMne-
Hot 4m Caf feinatedcoffee, tea 45«mocha coffee, hot chocolate 55«
Our Famous Blender Drinks $145strawberry daquiri, strawberry fling, pina colada, fudgeside, mound's bar, espresso freeze
Root Beer Float $0.01
Soho Natural Sodas 90«black cherry, cream soda, orange soda, sparkling water
Apple or Cranberry Spritzer «5«
Summertime Iced Tea 55«
Cow's Milk 65«

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTY
mm'///Tartn aS afT even FORCeP 70 SHARE momeR &ep wm HIM A6AIN, SHOffTMe.
Provided by SDC
W me Tw ieW eveN me hvaHrw reWpahadoW
by Berke Breathed Inkspots
AHHMeTW eMdo? hevve 
(ia?l mN Me. —
I'M BONNft BBmommy scftRRep FORTMReSTOF MY
un/K
1
WHAT I' HflPFeNev?flPF/mm, 1UCKFP
1>\ meAROUNP 4 a.m..
Cof>\th eopu\ TornineRlbHTS TO YOUR SONO,"(/ STINK PUTÌ <?U," ANP TueN RewRjre >u as o ur 
c>ph>f ahs 'wear u1>p\i TUeY'U- MAKBYOU ft MCTIMILLIONAIRE.
wwsou? Mourv
HBLLO 7*suppeN success services, inc. 7 MY CUeNT WOULP UKE toorpbr Your 'pfluxb mcK prtKtee "...
\
RI6HT... A HOMB IN LA. 30 VM6Sgsxcm ?iev ne Neeps... ftPORSCHB... ft HARLEY FOR IMA6B.. ft PfSHONBST PeRSONAL BUSINBS$\ MANASBR... ft BOOKING ftT THe ydql> -Atp " thptqsuw ft prrzy FASHION MOPBL FOR ft WIFE...
to tie tune OF *fhe Beverly Hillbillies- 
mi, ter Me teu, we story APOUT A CRT Nmeo BILL, *POOR COUNTRY FUSSY, COUU/NT Keep HIS TUMMY FILL ,7neN ONitWHiWM STRUMMfN'on his woue,ANP SOON AFTBR THAT CAMim mhpfy fn mmwe uhp .
i1
fl„ROYALTieS THAT IS. 6RZBM&ACKS. MOOLAH, MOOLAH '
mt, FIRST THINO Yft KNOW, OC ' 5/11 'S ft PILL IONA IRE, AKIN FOLKS SfttP, 'PILL, MM J * AWAY FROM THiRe/"
SAIP, "CAUFORNee IS THB PLACE FOR NUTS LIKe YOU/"so He FOLPep ¦d 1>\ mm
ANPMOVEP ^
TO i*
MftUBUUt/f
L V'ALl .,UAP/ corn BACK ' CW CLAP' V'H€ftp 7
CLAP'’ \
CLAP'CJ& ftcJf
Boobtube
"We now return to tswhs exc«" 
'Oripoleographa Rettetis: Killer

---------------------------------------------------

by Kurt Shaw
by Name
‘ries,
Pan 22.'"
A301by Ed Baranoski
Thikjk You used Enough 
bwveTa?l -rueze ßu-rcu?
£Vi7j Tartn Snfea
Armandoby Kurt Shaw
A Look Within
Look/ There's a g^j ovtr ¿here
his Uftderouear/ Tee Iwchtehee^
by Kneep Debends
£__I
Hi! Uihdti ihe watier?
X don't Ml vti eg em lookin', 
as /oncj as 
don'i 
LAUGHf
Nollem Eigenrac
L/TTZf- 2GWfTk i LG)U WKjL wTM
neue iw frisa?\A r-AA -n?\tAc
RUSS I fAWLV , lAKTOL THE fPWtCSi
PfClD« «OH AT TD tO 
kJITH YOU.
C’ M’tecsl W>H*T HAPPefcCD AfTf* TMf K£»B T*oW€T> '*U 09* m i\WN* 
Wi\TW youy on> co^Pte ?
Mm--l youy r-d -uD
LCOKIWOi K[T ¦5TV*%XjW.'f, |AM&
tftt ¦SÄS , * BAt> < w
THEM. TH6 WfXT TVMWfa I MICM. 
iMC hyMmg » ftowfT c*>vns iI-t -rt rrs*T
ir\e Miw A iaLA*»KFr!
by Mike McHugh with Joe Ferrugia
Hoik UsJVLC ViCMj **e€T l(
''fOUfc HOSTS.
TWCW TMe OLD **A*J 
iTVM* Abortii <* VOOKWinM A Mvmr own; II« ywm. 
t ALnOfeT ¿xAtAeo'. .
- THf CvUA\*s<\S
nKH enpf rtcn! hona 
)
OOWV DOÖ TWf (OOPD A»odTOC»v»oou2.j suDDevicv ec**^ lt O-aop— P
TWf v fMhyof?T vo<*£,
Ìttmse THC MEXTTHlMtk I TJPI^^QFR, 
IS ujAKWic.-» vM> WFRC TX'S. v*>C»à<»K» 
C»00, A* 1 C»LAD 10
brrdl Tve sfWFSTrt I
»i TuiT AVJUT OVMT«, AMD \
VOU-U- V L£AU\vJt, vo*o\
(diriwirt C>6*TL 
eWOu.NH.TMn4 tw
TMTVOOvtffO WF Tt> W«. D*u*»WT*«, 
r&Ss D E.rhMths
915 59477SHOC* ;~rl

---------------------------------------------------

FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 1 2 MIDNIGHHmiKWWW
C/O v ;L
our dough mode FRESH doily ~ - w WT/C
810 IVY STRICT • SHADYSIDi682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO:
• Shodyside • Pt Breeze 1>H
• Sq. Hilt • Oakland •
• Friendship Pork •
• Bloomfield •
• Highland Park^ f..» r * v nc KKK
^FRIE DELIVERY•< M 1 — MM M — ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦
¦ COUPON I
! Large Cheese Pizza J B! $ 3.99 j
immmm »» Jj m££. ______>
(All sandwiches come with r.elied provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie..............................4.00
Vi Hoagie.. ......................... . 2.00
Hot Sausage........................... 3.90
Meat Ball...................... ............3.90
Cheese Hoagie............................3.20Steak Hoagie.:............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. ................4.20
Cold Sub .... ......................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Qreen 
Peppers, Mushrooms & that Special Touch)
'rash lettuce. tomato, onion — unless spec!fit# 
Peppers or Mushrooms — 25* Extra)
Shed light on
the matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY — 7 -10 p.m
CALCULUS 
(Pre, 1, 11, 111)
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS
INTRO. TO COMPUTING .
Sponserd by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs
PH126A
PH 126B 
PH 126C 
PH 125B 
PH226B 
PH226C 
WEH5415
FRESHMEN
The first year is almost over! Have you done anything interesting in your freshman year? Have you ever thought about going back to your old High School to tell them what it’s really like? If so, why not be official about it? The Admissions office has an abundance of materials for you if you would like to take them back
. .v;.- ' '* V **;¦ A «1*; - v ¦¦ '}
P- ¦ h ¦>h 4*- ‘r * • j G "* i h •> h -r*•«> ¦ r ’ 'tt ' ‘ ¦’ -r '* ' * ¦» i, • J . • V-¦¦ -..-v ' . * "«5 ?- ,4- \ ' ¦ '' U • r.* •>.; ..l* ***• ' •*'. •' ¡r X- '* * * ’ ‘>r " ¦ . - ' - ' &V • -• * '¦ ¦ • ¦ "V - VV V ^ v >« ’¦ *¦ ' . '*• * ' K 1
So before you leave for home come by and see us on the first floor of Warner Hall, or give us a call at x2082 — ask about the High School Visitation Program.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page D9
The Pajama Game is One of the Years Best
continued from page D1
increase, but mean old Mr. Hasler the factor)' 
owner, is too greedy to give his workers the 
same. Led by spunky fellow worker Babe 
and the slick union man Prez, the workers 
vow to cause trouble unless they are given 
satisfaction. All this seems perfectly easy, 
except that Babe and Sid, the good-looking 
new superintendent, fall in love. Pitted 
against each other at work, they try to 
maintain their relationship until the end of 
act one when Babe jams the assembly line 
and Sid is forced to fire her. By the end of act 
two, all is resolved in predictably happy 
musical comedy fashion, but the ins and 
outs along the way make it fun to watch just 
the same.
On the whole the cast is very strong, except 
in their singing. Krisie Spear as Babe does 
wonderfully in her speaking and dancing, but 
she breaks into a nearly inaudible falsetto 
when the singing part gets too high. Colin 
Martin as the jealous Hines is lovably 
engaging and gives a strong performance, 
even though his loud voice isn’t terribly 
melodious. This w'as not a problem with 
everyone: Greg Steres as Sid the
superintendent gives a solid acting perform-
Dave Brubeck
continued from page D1
States and Europe; improvised the jazz scene 
for the Agatha Christie movie “Ordeal By 
Innocence,” starring Donald Sutherland; per­
formed as a soloist with the Philadelphia, 
Atlanta and other symphony orchestras, but 
he is currently on a highly successful 
cultural exchange tour throughout Russia.
The quartet of Joe Morejlo, Eugene 
Wright, Paul Desmond and Dave Brubek 
won every jazz poll from the mid-fifties 
until they disbanded in the late sixties.
Besides appearing twice on the cover of 
Time, the Dave Brubek Quartet pioneered the 
college concert circuit, performed and 
recorded “Dialogue For A Jazz Combo and 
Orchestra," with Leonard Bernstein, and the 
New York Philharmonic, toured Eastern 
Europe and the Middle East for the State 
Department. Their classic album “Time 
Out”, which included “Take Five,” sold over 
a million copies and became the first gold 
record for modem jazz.
The current version of the Dave Brubek 
Quartet includes Randy Jones, drums; Chris 
Brubek (Dave’s son), electric bass and 
trombone; and Bill Smith on clarinet.
The Dave Brubek Quartet will perform two 
shows a night at 8:30 and 10:30 pm. For 
reservations call Harper’s at (412) 391-1494, 
or pick tickets up at Harper’s, One Oxford 
Center, Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.
In Review
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
Pregnant?
Ao. cl0 .d.ohG ueIo Gl be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call sd2G$2dO$G 
lf tdGGsb02O$ at 62L-L988___
3 B.R. Shadyside Apt. Large (for 4- 
5), creatively designed, 11/2 blocks 
from heart of Walnut Street. Don't 
wait for leftovers: sign lease now for 
September. Summer sublet
available. $500++. 521-9555.
ance and belts out his songs with an equally impressive voice
Definitely worth noting are Jordan Lee 
Williams as the woman-hunting Prez, and 
Traci Lyn Thomas as Mae, the cutely 
muscular powerhouse who endeavors to keep 
Prez in line. Without a doubt, the sparkler of 
the cast is Kate Suber as Gladys, the 
flirtatious secretary. Two of Suber’s 
numbers, Steam Heat and the Jealousy 
Ballet, are possibly the most memorable in 
the show.
The Pajama Game is directed by Carnegie 
Mellon Alumnus Gregory Lehane, a former 
member of the drama faculty who presently 
works in New York. Judith Ann Conte is 
responsible for the choreography, and Keith 
Lockhart directs the excellent pit band. The 
show runs April 28-30 and May 1-2 at 
8:00pm, with a matinee at 2:00pm on May 
2. Call the box office at 268-2407 for more 
information. The Pajama Game is a fun 
spirit-lifter worth missing a bit of study 
time for.Greg Steres (Sid) and Krisis Spear (Babe) star in Pajama Game
GETTING THIS WASNT EASY.
WITH FORD CREDIT GETTING THIS...
FROM TARGET FORD IS.
At Target Ford, we know get­
ting that degree wasn’t easy. But when 
it comes to a new car, we can help with 
pre-approved credit from Ford Credit.
If you are working on an advanced 
degree or graduating with a Bachelor’s 
Degree between October 1,1986 and 
September 30,1987, you may qualify 
for this special college graduate 
purchase program.
If you do, you’ll receive a $400 cash 
allowance from Ford. Make your best 
deal on any qualifying vehicle and use 
the money toward your down payment,
ug2 IOAo
Ford MotorCredit
Company
or Ford will send you a $400 check 
after the purchase or lease. The money 
is yours whether you finance or not.
The amount of your credit depends 
on which of these qualified vehicles 
you choose:
Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus.
Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger.
So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer 
stock you must order by Junel, 1987, 
and you must take delivery of any 
vehicle by August 31,1987.
MAKE IT EASY ON YOURSELF. GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT
lore]GtFC;RD &zf
L Rl0Ge 22 Mlo2levdkke 
r do f2loG lf G$e uIkk 
242-9900 856-0600FORD

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
Joe Bob Rates the All-Time Lipstick Lizards
The old mailbag's been stuffed with letters 
from Lipstick Lizards all over America, ask- 
in me the question "Am I or am I not a Lip­
stick Lizard?" and enclosin photos for judg­
ment. Most of em are Lipstick Lizards. They 
got all excited a few weeks ago when I called Tammy Faye Bakker a Lipstick Lizard,
MISUNDERSTOOD. I LOVE Lipstick 
Lizards. I've been exclusively DATING 
Lipstick lizards for the last 15 years, 
beginnin with Debe Wilks and continuin 
right up to Wanda Bodine. Lipstick Lizard is 
a term of affection. I would be interested in 
marryin a Lipstick Lizard, for at least a 
couple of weeks.
But just so we won't have any more little 
misunderstandings, let's go over the 
qualifications. Now many people believe 
that Joan Collins is my standard for a 
Lipstick Lizard, even though I've never 
written about Joan except to mention that I 
hope she gets her fair share of the $380 
billion divorce settlement, which includes 
$120 billion worth of pancake makeup, but 
this is NOT true. Actually, Joan ranks no 
better than No. 3 on the all -time Lipstick 
Lizard list.
Here are the current rankings:
1. Morgan Fairchild: A little bit 
more eyeliner and Morgan could rent her 
eyes out as a fingerprint I.D. kit. Fingernails 
roughly 38 inches long. And that essential 
quality of the Queen Lipstick Lizard — hair 
that won't budge in hurricane-force winds.
2. Nancy Reagan: had her eyes 
surgically wired open, for that Little Orphan 
Annie Look.
3. Joan Collins: Basically does it with 
style, always being quoted in the paper 
saying stuff like " I just LOVE young 
limber studly jungle boys."
4. Any Century 21 realtor: Be sure to add 
seven heavy gold bracelets, daglin’ earrings, 
and a pink business card that has a happy 
face on it.
5. Baba Wah-Wah: Dressed as a 
lithuanian circus tent at the Oscars.
6. Mary Hart: The producer of 
"Entertainment Tonight " should get partial 
Lipstick Lizard credit for arranging that 
hemline so Mary can wrap her legs into a 
pretzel and actually move like a reptile 
during the show.
7. Elizabeth Taylor: National. Velveeta.
8. Bo Derek: Aspiring Lipstick Lizard. 
Not quite old enough yet, but already 
acquiring that "face of Heinrick Himmler" 
look.
9. Sophia Loren: Classic " bedroom 
eyes after everything else is gone" Lipstick 
Lizard. Incredible designer claws.
10. Sylvia Kristel: Eighty-four years old 
and still doin porno. A big double-L for 
heart.
I love ever one of em.
And speaking of the Lipstick Queen 
herself, "Campus Man" is about this shag­
haired yupster business nerd at Arizona State 
that gets the greatest idea in the history of 
capitalism—put out a CALENDAR! This is 
such an exciting idea that the whole first 45 
minutes is about how he's gonna do it, 
which is basically by going out in the desert 
and borrowin $12,000 in small bills from
Miles O'Keefe, who' wanderin around out in 
cactus-land mutterin " You know, the Tarzan 
guy. No, the one with Bo Derek. I know it’s 
gonna lead to SOMETHIN." And so then 
Todd the business nerd gets his best friend, 
Brett the jock high-divin beefcake string- 
bikini blond-headed blue-jean-jacket hunkola, 
to pose for the cover of the calendar, and -
- whoops! — Morgan Fairchild, the editor 
of Image Magazine, shows up lookin like 
she's tryin out for "Elvira" and tries to sign 
up Brett's groceries for the cover of her 
magazine. And then there's a whole bunch of 
plot about Todd gettin his hiney pasted in 
desert biker bar, and basically what we got 
here is " The Anugish of a Handsome 
Arizona State Olympic Diving Champion."
The highlight of the movie is when 
Morgan says, "Do you know I've made a 
whole career out of eating two-bit hustlers 
like you for breakfast?" And then she gets 
drunk with Todd and Brett and rides around in 
the glass elevator at the Hyatt.
No breasts. No blood. No beasts. Grisly 
slow-mo high-divin. Disco stampede. "Don't 
Dive Drunk" scene. Gratuitous ASU 
business professor. Gratuitous male-model 
music video. Kung Fu. Atrium Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Awards for Miles O'Keefe, as 
Cactus Jack the loan-shark rattlesnake-killin 
pointy-toed-boot drug-dealin friend of Bo 
Derek; and Morgan Fairchild, for being such 
a Lipstick Lizard.
One and half stars. Joe Bob says, if you 
go to ASU and you might be in the disco 
scene or the pool scene, check it out if you 
have to.
This week's drive-in videos:
"The Human Vapor" (1962): the story of 
Mr.Mizuno, who volunteers for the Japanese 
space program, but starts to think something
might be wrong when they stick his head in 
an iron clamp for 10 days and teach him to 
become invisible—so he spends his whole 
life vaporizin all over Tokyo, robbin banks 
so he can pay for his girlfriend's kabuki- 
dancing career. Great Japaheeno sci fi. three 
stars.
"Escape from Galaxy 3" (1976) A space 
ship lands in the Stone Age, forcih the time 
travelers to wander through Zulu villages 
wearing turquoise latex tights until they 
drink too much wine, leam how to have sex, 
and say "Maybe science alone is not 
enough." Some of the greatest Dialogue in 
sci fi history, including " I foresee the end of 
our beloved Exilar!" "Prepare the uranium 
vapor rockets!" "you galactic idiots! 
Imbeciles!" "Use a mega-metric teleprobe 
and scan the whole eastern galaxy! Wait! 
Including the equi-distant counting time 
jets!" And my personal favorite, spoken in 
the immortal James Milton: "After 
thousands of years our sexual powers have 
come back to life—a powerful new 
dimension." Three stars.
"Children Shouldn't Play With Dead 
Things" (1972): Minor drive-in classic about 
a hippie threatre troupe that goes into the 
woods, performs some hokey incantations, 
and raises zombies from the grave. Sample 
hip dialogue: "Get out of the grave, Allen, 
let an ARTIST show you how to call a curse 
down on Satan." "Man? Man is a machine 
that manufactures manure." "There is great 
beauty in death. It shouldn't be defiled." All 
pretty hysterical, until the zombies slither 
up out of the slime and eat the cast. Three 
stars.
Joe Bob says check em out.
(Tle Ui2verS2oy Iii
Featuring 
All Occasion CateringIs Pleased to Announce our Mother's Day Buffet May 10,1987 12:00 noon till 8:00 pm
Carved Top Round of Beef 
Carved Baked Virginia Ham 
Baked Stuffed Chicken Breast 
Jumbo Stuffed Shells Marinara 
Seafood Newburg 
Bar B'Que Baby Ribs 
Rice Pilaff
Candied Sweet Potatoes
Parslied Potatoes 
Sweet Corn in Butter Sauce 
Green Beans Almondine 
Baby Carrots with Honey Glaze 
Array of Cold Salads 
Assorted Pastries 
Bread, Rolls, and butter Coffee/Tea/Milk
A Special Gift for Each Mom Adults $11.95 Children 12 and Under $5.95 For Children Under 6 - No Charge 10% Discount with CMU student ID

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
Joe Bob’s Mailbag: Poems about Bull Lingams
Communist Alert! Sonny Bono is running 
for mayor of Palm Springs, Calif. To 
discuss the meaning of life with Joe Bob. or 
to get his “We Are the Weird” newsletter, 
write Joe Bob Briggs, P. O. Box 33, Dallas, 
Texas 75221.
DEAR JOE BOB: I found your article on 
theocratic nookie absolutely inspiring, If 
everybody got more nookie, the world would 
be a happier and a more peaceful place, 
according to the gospel of Bhagwan. as well 
as myself.
So I’m scouting up money to buy a 
Mustang Ranch to convert it to a veritable 
temple of nookie. The big advantage of this 
over Ms. Hahn is that it will be cheaper, 
plus you will know the cost in advance. 
Benefactors of $10,00() or more will be 
bishops entitled to special sacraments.
So let me know if you're interested in the 
Vatican of nookie, to be known as the 
Celestial Sanctuary of Earthly Delights. 
—BROTHER J.V. HENRY, CHAPEL OF 
PERPETUAL INDULGENCE,
FORMERLY DIVINE ORDER OF 
TAKING UP SERPENTS, NORTH FORK, 
CALIF.
DEAR BROTHER J.V.: Let’s talk about 
the holy penicillin first.
JOE BOB: I'm a sophomore at a big high 
school over here in San Diego and I got a 
conflict I was kinda hoping you could help 
me resolve, cause we got this communist 
war-bringing pacifist down here by the name 
of Jeff Larson that says he’s the messenger
of the Great Biscuit sent to earth to drink 
San Diego tap water and talk about peace 
(He’s one of those stupid people we forgot 
to tell the real earth exploded 100 years ago 
and we all came here on the Cosmic Ark). I 
mean is he awake or what? Now he’s got all 
these flower children followers that do what 
he says and says what he says. Well, with 
all the ACTION being on the other side of 
campus I needed some time to think about 
what I was gonna do. So I go to a Fu Film 
Festival to get some ideas and end up 
deciding to Fu him to death. And so he gets 
all bent out of shape because someone says I 
got the idea to take a pipe bomb and blow 
his gorilla off. So I gets in lots of trouble 
and he gets off scott free with his gorilla 
still intact. Should I:
No. 1 — Blow his gorilla off anyhow,
No. 2 — Blow him off,
No. 3 — Blow him up,
No. 4 — Force him to listen to the
“Amerika” soundtrack (at 33 speed),
No. 5 — All of the above.
Your opinion would be much appreciated 
on this matter since no one else’s is. — 
BIRDY, SAN DIEGO, CALIF.
DEAR BIRDMAN: I support the God- 
given right of all Hairy Krishna flower- 
eating Commie-lovers to come out in public 
places and state their opinions so we can 
make disgusting noises with our armpits 
while they’re talking.
DEAR JOE BOB: I would love to receive 
your newsletter, and also to be on whatever 
weird mailing lists you’re obviously doing 
this to sell my name to. I’d especially like 
to be sold to the PTL Club mailing list 
people. I hear they need new members, and I 
love supporting sex, drugs, and heavy alien-
COUPON? ? Our Gang Pizza ? ? 
$2.00 OFF
Large 2 Item Pizza
622-7000Expires 5/6/87
4523 Centre Avenue, Oakland 
Sun-Thurs11am-1am 
Fri - Sat 11 am - 2am
Hours:
THE ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOP
Mon-Sun 9am-4:30am 
Fri-Sat 9am-6am
Another 1st at the Original
Coors Beer on draft
served by the mug or pitcher.
Coming Soon 
NEW FOOD ITEMS
In the hamburger section! 
Guaranteed to satisfy even 
the most discriminating taste.
IRISH BEER SPECIALS 
Dempsey Beer $5.00/six
Beamish Cream Stout $5.00/six 
Harp $6.00/six
| T/^b-HAMiURGER |FRIES, COLE SLAW 
AND SMALL Coke
only $2.99
(must present coupon before order) 
expires 5/6/87____I
Morgan Fairchild is the top lipstick lizard
like pancake makeup.
Very best wishes, ANN WEISER,
OAKLAN, CALIF.
DEAR ANN: The only people I sell the 
official Joe Bob Briggs Mailing List to are 
Islamic Jihad. I don’t know, I just feel like 
we have a lot in common.
DEAR JOE BOB: I just got your latest 
book, and found it really inspirational.
That’s right, “The Pop-Up Kama Sutra,” by 
J. Biggs. Whoops! That’s Jonathan BIGGS,
(see page DIO)
not Joe Bob Briggs ... perhaps a cousin of 
yours, or something? Oh, well, thought you 
might like to see it anyway (freebie 
enclosed).
Yours in Eternal Vigilance Against 
Commie Mutant Traitor Furriners, KEVIN 
WOHLMUT, A DORM IN BERZERKLEY, 
SARATOGA, CALIF.
DEAR KEVIN: Loved all the poems in 
there about bull lingams.
What’s a bull lingam?
SENIORSand 
v GRADS .
-ARE YOU CLOSE TO GRADUATION?
-DID YOU RECENTLY GRADUATE?
-WOULD YOU LIKE NEW TRANSPORTATION FOR YOUR NEW FIELD OF ENDEAVOR 
WITH NO CO-SIGNER NEEDED?
• Purchase or lease a New Samson
• Six months prior to Graduation 
or up to one year after
(four year or graduate degree)
• Verifiable Commitment for Employment
• Lack of credit history is NO Problem
•PLUS 
$400 towards your purchase 
or
90 day deferral of 1st payment
WOUDN’T YOU REALLY RATHER HAVE A SAMSON 
TO CARRY YOU INTO YOUR NEW PROFESSION9 
YOU DESERVE IT!
SAMSON BUICK CO.522U LIsERTY AnEr 
tITTwsURGHi tA L5224
WHERE ffE CARE ABOUT THE PROFESSIONALS OF
yrir..rDH
CALL OUR BUSINESS MANAGER. TREVA SMITH, FOR AN APPOINTMENT578-8402 iwiMtiMi.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
Announcements
Carnegie Mellon Drama. The Pajama 
Game. A musical comedy directed by Gregory 
Lehane. Kresge Theatre, College of Fine 
Arts. For ticket and time information call the 
Box Office at 268-2407.
Ruth Duckworth presents her work at 
2100 Smallman Street through June 7. Spon­
sored by the Society for Art in Crafts. 
Gallery hours are: 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday
through Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
For more information call 261-7003.
Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation. Flowers of the Amazon: Water- 
colors by Margaret Mee is exhibited thorough 
June 13 on the fifth floor of Hunt Library. 
Gallery hours are: 8:30 am - noon and 1 pm - 
5 pm, Monday through Friday. For more 
information call 268-2434.
Papyrus, Pens, and Pixels Exhibit.
The ways that changing technology have al­
tered our alphabet. Letterforms have changed 
with the inventions of the steel pen, the 
printing press and the computer. Tools of 
lettermaking shown. Exhibit designed by 
five CM senior graphic designers. Hunt Li­
brary 4th floor, Fine & Rare Book Room. 
Hours are 8:30 am - 5 pm through May.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy cele­
brates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, Monday 
through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 pm, Sat­
urdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration Auditori­
um. A solemn mass is celebrated at noon on 
Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more informa­
tion call 681-3181.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium. Journey 
to an energetic and colorful world where blaz­
ing lights and magical images glow and gy­
rate to music by rock's most spectacular 
artists in Laserium, presented live under the 
stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through 
Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current con­
certs call 321-5554. *
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. "Bio Comer," interact 
with newly-hatched chicks and ducklings - 
new ones hatching weekly. Permanent exhib­
it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday;
1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images — let your imagina­
tion run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of 
the Earth’s rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"The Right Moves," You're the star per­
former in Buhl’s new action-packed exhibit 
exploring the body in motion! Exciting 
hands-on activities -- Momentum machine, 
Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - let visi­
tors investigate the mechanics of motion 
"step by step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321- 4300.
Observatory. Weather permitting, view 
Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the 
night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
Raceways. Discover Raceways, a travel­
ing exhibit from the Association of Science 
and Technology Centers (ASTC). Explore 
momentum, gravity, acceleration and friction 
with four fast-action, hands-on modules that 
actually parallel experiments conducted by 
Galileo and Newton! At 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; through May 3.
Captives of the Sun. Journey through the 
solar system from the edge of the universe to 
earth. Audiences explore each of the planets 
and their satellites, as well as asteroids, 
comets and meteoroids en route. At 2 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 2 pm, 4:30 pm 
and 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4:15 pm, 
Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday.
Space Trip. Bcconc an astronaut aboard 
the space shuttle! Primary students will
launch from Kennedy Space Center on an 
imaginary journey to the sun and moon. At 
12:45 pm, Saturday and 3 pm, Sunday. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Chil­
dren's Theatre. Rapunzel. Rapunzel, Ra- 
punzel so pretty and fair is trapped by a 
wicked witch in a high tower. But have no 
fear for Rapunzel has long golden hair...and 
the prince is a pretty good climber! This age- 
old story is a Playhouse Jr. favorite, at 11 am 
and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, 
Sundays, through May 31.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Chil­
dren's Theatre. Alice in Wonderland. Ever 
been down a rabbit hole? Ever see a cat grin? 
Ever attend a mad tea party,or play croquet 
with flamingoes? Alice does and you can 
join her when we present this colorful stage 
adaptation of Lewis Carroll's beloved tale, at
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, 
Sundays, through May 31.
Tuesday
Mlvdes
Videodrome. James Woods is excellent as 
the cable-TV programmer who gives his audi­
ence more than they bargained for. Wild spe­
cial effects. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
wSecdIk EveoGs
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Crimes of the Heart, starring Sissy 
Spacek, Jessica Lange and Diane Keaton. 
Nice acting in this adaptation of Beth Hen­
ley's play about three sisters, one of whom 
has shot her unappealing husband. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
M0sdc
Dept, of Music Senior Recital. Kath­
leen Bolger, voice, performs at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
wSecdIk EveoGs
Gaming Club Meeting. Open gaming 
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything 
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at 1 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
1 Sunday
MlvdeMlvdes
Bye, Bye Birdie, starring Dick Van Dyke, 
Ann-Margret and Paul Lynde. Delightful musi­
cal about drafted rock n' roll. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.29WMelneSday 4 Monday
The Cameraman, starring Buster Keaton 
and Marceline Day. Another hilarious Keaton 
classic as Keaton plays a street photographer 
seeking his fame and fortune. A pet monkey 
saves the day. One of his best. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
wSecdIk EveoGs
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
^ A Thursday
n2 Mlvdes
The Color Purple, starring Whoopi Gold­
berg, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrey and 
Danny Glover. Film adaptation of Alice 
Walker's feminist novel about the tragedies 
and final triumphs of a poor black woman in 
Georgia. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
LecG02es
Dept, of Psychology Collopuim. Dr.
Andrea Di Sessa, University of California at 
Berkeley, speaks on "Knowledge in Pieces: 
An Epistemology for Intuitive Knowledge in 
Physics" at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH. 
Coffee is served before the lecture in the Psy­
chology Lounge.
wSecdIk EveoGs
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an English 
Language Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood 
dining hall.
Mlvdes
Doctor Zhivago, starring Omar Sharif, 
Julie Christie and Rod Steiger. Epic film 
adaptation of Pasternak's novel about the 
Russian Revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
'I Friday
-M- Mo'
Wanted: Youth Group Advisor for part
time, flexible hours, prior experience work­
ing with youth. As participant or advisor. 
Excellent organizational, planning and com­
munication skills. Call 279-7600. Send re­
sume to Temple Emanuel, 1250 Bower Hill 
Rd„ Pgh., PA 15243.
Counselors Needed: New Hampshire
boys’ camp. 60th season. June 20-August 20. 
Tennis, swimming, water-skiing, archery, 
crafts, trip crafts, coaches. Call Chuck Illig, 
412-337-6837 from 5-9 pm.
SUMMER WORK - Full Time. $7.50 
pay rate. All majors can apply. Openings in 
various areas throughout the North Hills, 
South Hills, and East suburbs. Scholarships 
offered, Internships possible. Car needed. 
Call 1-5 pm 823-6690.
EMPLOYMENT: Engineers, CADD
operators - 100 Pittsburgh / Suburban
Companies list, complete with addresses + 
phone numbers. $40.00 fee. Send your 
name, address, with check or money order to: 
Bottom Line Resume, P.O. Box 110167, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15232.
Earn up to $8000 next school year 
managing on campus marketing programs for 
top national companies. Flexible part time 
hours. Must be a junior/senior or grad 
student. Ask Gene or Dee at (215) 567-2100.
Mlvdes
The Bedroom Window, starring Steve 
Guttenberg, Isabelle Huppert and Elizabeth 
McGovern. A woman, having an adulterous 
affair, witnesses a murder. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Housing
Tech House needs Fall Residents
(male or female). Will be located at Roselawn 
15. Seeks people who aren’t afraid to talk 
about God. For more information call 268- 
8618.
SUMMER HOUSING NEAR CAMPUS.
Modem furnished rooms with maid and linen 
service, near campus, private bath, parking 
and low weekly or monthly rates. ONLY $78 
per week or $230 per month. Call now, 682- 
7025.
Roommate(s) sought — 1 or 2 to share 
3-bedroom apartment in Shadyside. 
$ 130/month. Laundry and air conditioning
Call George or Steve, 682-2015. After 5:00 
is best.
Sq. Hill — large 2 & 3 BR for rent. 
Lg., w/w, laundry. Wilkins Ave., 5-min. walk 
to CMU. Sept. 1, $540-$685. 363-3560.
SUMMER HOUSING NEAR CAMPUS.
Excellent furnished rooms near campus with 
linen and maid service, utilities paid, 
parking, and private bath. ONLY $70 per
week or $230 per month. Call now, 682-
7010.
Sq. Hill area — Furnished 2-bedrm., liv­
ing, equipt kit, wall to wall carpet, ample 
storage space. Available May 1, $425
+electric, heat included. Call 731-3894.
Shadyside. Large two bedroom apartment. 
Convenient to CMU campus. $385 (includes 
heat) + electric. Available May 1: 422-0262.
Sublet for rent in 3 bedroom apt., with two 
female medical students. Female non-smokers 
call 683-4211. $160.00 very negotiable.
Share beautiful furnished 6 bedroom, 4 
bath, microwave, color TV, cable, phone, 
washer and dryer. Inc. all for $200.00 each. 
838-1727.
Services
Safe, Permanent Hair Removal by li­
censed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
Training for the Pittsburgh Mara­
thon? Call Hartwood Sports Medicine & 
Wellness Center for help in preparation and 
achieving peak performance. Ask for Dr. 
George Pappas; 681-3003 (Oakland).
Quit Smoking for Good
NO Medication 
NO Weight Gain 
Reduces rates for students and employees. Day 
and Evening hours Monday-Saturday. For fur­
ther information ask for Dr. George Pappas; 
681-3003 (Oakland), Hartwood Sports 
Medicine and Wellness Centers.
Wrap it — Pack it — Ship it
Let us do it! We are serviced by all means of 
transportation for fast, dependable handling. 
OVERNIGHT, NATIONWIDE, WORLDWIDE. 
Wrap and Pack, 233 Spahr St. (off Ellsworth), 
Shadyside, 441-7722, daily 9-5. Open year 
round.
Moving Moving Moving
For movers with heart call Second Mile 
Hauling, Vince @ 231-2766.
Wanted
Wanted: One reel to reel tape player that is
probably taking up too much room in your 
apartment. Price negotiable. X4268.
Wanted: Typist. Prefer someone using
word processor and located near Regent 
Square/ Squirrel Hill area. 731-3818.
Autos
wEXY?
No! Reliable? Yes! 1976 Ford Granada
- 4 door, 6 cyl, automatic transmission,
PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM Cassette. * Clean, 
reliable, and seeks new home. Call Mark @ 
621-6572 days, 683-4262 evenings.
Graduating Students, First-time buyers, 
No credit — Call George Potts 264-9350.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 9
Human Rights vs. Failure of the Imagination
By TOM ISENBERG
I am grateful for Mike Krill's letter to the 
editor last week for two reasons. One, 
because it's nice to know that the column 
had one reader, and two, because he raised the 
same concerns I had two years 
ago when I first looked into 
libertarianism and the "legal­
ization of freedom."
Given that a person knows 
that the libertarian philosophy (recognized 
historically as the "classical liberalism" of 
Thomas Jefferson, Adam Smith, and Andrew 
Jackson) stands primarily for a drastic 
reduction in government interference in our 
private and public (economic) lives, a . 
common question arises which concerns 
such civil services as roads maintenance and 
education: how can they be provided for 
privately? It seems that three prominent 
libertarian economists, Ludwig von Mises, 
Henry Hazlitt, and Friedrich Hayek, the latter 
a winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, 
maintain that it is not a confusion of micro- 
and macroeconomic principles (rather that it 
is an alarming and inevitable necessity) for 
the citizenry to demand that government stop 
subsidizing its inefficient, bullying, and 
monopolistic intrusion into everything from 
schools to public works to social welfare.
It surprised me to find out that many of 
these concerns have already been answered by 
such progressive and imaginative cities as La 
Mirada, California (and, interestingly 
enough, David Letterman's home office: 
Scottsdale, Arizona) where all key services 
such as social welfare, public works, and 
even police and fire protection are provided 
for efficiently and cheaply by competing 
private companies. Indeed, the number of 
privately-run fire and police services, low 
and higher-cost schools, alternative 
education, public works, and even prisons 
(Silverdale in Tennessee) are constantly 
rising. These experiments (which seem 
novel and progressive to us badgered and 
brainwashed Americans of the 1980s, but 
were practiced in more libéral American
communities of the 17th, 18th, and 19th 
centuries) cut the extortion and waste of tax 
dollars by making only the user of a service 
the buyer of that service.
That is the cornerstone of what I believe to 
be the only moral (and rational) economic 
and political philosophy. Trimming away 
the huge tax revenues required to subsidize 
government meddling in private business and 
foreign affairs would make alternative 
revenues for legitimate government 
expenditures quite feasible.
The current federal budget calls for more 
than 925 billion dollars, of which more than 
300 billion is slated for all kinds of military 
spending. The current budget deficit is more 
than 200 billion dollars. If the federal 
government were confined to providing a 
sane defense and protecting constitutional 
rights, federal expenditures could be trimmed 
by more than two-thirds. The possible meth­
ods for financing this leaner government 
(unlike anarchists, I do agree that these func­
tions are needed) include voluntary financing 
lotteries, and as yet unimagined non-coercive 
schemes. Sound outrageous? Keep in mind 
that private organizations score more than 
100 billion dollars every year. And that is 
nothing to say of the huge sums collected by 
State and community-organized lotteries.
If it is anything, libertarianism is a radical 
challenge to the mundane Republocrat and 
Demopublican disregard for truly humane 
civil rights. Since libertarians consider 
themselves the intellectual heirs of our 
country's "classical liberal" heritage (the 
original meaning has been corrupted by 
today's statist "liberals"), their notion of 
human rights comes from our founding 
mothers' and fathers’ notion of Natural 
Rights. They did not arrogantly claim their 
right to a "fair" job, to a "fair" farm, to a 
"fair" meal, or to a "fair" VCR. Their cry 
was "gimme liberty or gimme death," not 
"gimme equality and gimme lunch." 
Freedom-loving citizens of all eras have 
realized that you can not claim something 
that you have not cultivated or traded for
Former Senator Reflects on CMU Days, Fate of Senate
By PETER COHEN 
Student Senate Chairman Emeritus
I will finally graduate in May from SUPA 
after spending five years at CMU. I 
witnessed physical change, administrative 
change, and was a participant of the only real 
student rally. To protest & 
19% tuition increase in Fall 
1982, when students threw 
administration-providedcook- 
ies at Warner Hall. I also 
had the pleasure and pain of witnessing the 
changing status of student organizations.
I was a member of Student Senate from 
March 1984 until last December. I served as 
Chairman from last March until December. 
Many things that Senate did during this time 
were not perfect, but Senate did work 
especially hard to plan and publicize events 
and manage its internal functions. The past 
semester has been a hard one for Student 
Senate. There was a great deal of 
controversey and Senate appeared indecisive. 
However, this can happen at any time. The 
outstanding problem this semester was the 
terrible job that Senate did in terms of 
planning and publicizing the recent Senate 
elections, in publicity in general, and in 
lack of internal organizational planning that 
should be provided by the Chairman.
Elections are the most important function 
of any representative body. Senate improves 
'tself through the election process and makes 
others aware of the duties that it performs. I 
agree wholeheartedly with last week’s Tartan 
editorial which addressed this year’s problem. 
Election planning is the duty of the 
Chairman and Senate’s executive committee, 
area was very deficient this semester.
Furthermore, Senate apparently was not even 
aware of the need for a Student Government 
Presidential Debate. Not planning adequately 
for the debate sheds bad light on Senate, sets 
a dangerous precedent, and hopefully won’t 
happen again.
I hope that in future years, Senate will 
work to ensure that election publicity, and 
further planning and publicity is handled 
with the dedication that CMU students 
deserve. Students benefit when Senate is held 
accountable for its events. Senate’s job is to 
inform the student body of what is going on. 
Many Senators worked very hard in the past 
to ensure that Senate’s external image and 
internal organization was as effective and 
efficient as possible. This dedication seems 
to be fading. Senate is perceived by many to 
be less than effective, and it cannot get any 
better if Senate doesn’t work hard to promote 
itself and its positive attributes. Senate’s 
Chairman, the publicity committee, and the 
executive committee would be wise to get 
their act together fast.
As a freshman and sophomore I remember 
Student Government President Nate Solano’s 
efforts to use his Tartan column to “Win a 
Date With Nate,” only furthering his and 
Student Senate’ negative image. Unfort­
unately, the three presidents since him have 
not been much better. I am hopeful that 
Andy Robitshek will reverse this trend. 
Perhaps he can find a way to eliminate lame- 
duck senior-year presidents who serve a 
lackluster term in the spring semester of 
their senior year while understandably 
looking for jobs. The onus is on Andy 
Robitshek and Senate’s executive 
committed tb get Senate’s act together.
yourself, otherwise you are living 
parasitically at someone else's expense. 
Natural Law, Natural Rights and other 
pillars of libertarianism are much more 
complex than this, but space requires that I 
give only a gist of the arguments.
The Freeman, at forty years the oldest and
most cantankerous journal of ideas on 
liberty, gives articulate and well-researched 
alternatives to Big Brother's coercion and 
intereference in our lives. You can get a free 
(seriously!) subscription by just asking: The 
Foundation for Economic Education, 
Irvington-on-Hudson, New York 10533.Affirmative Action Decision is
Travesty of Justice* companies that refuse to adopt affirmative
By AARON SOLOMON and 
THOMAS HEIM
In a recent travesty of justice, the Supreme
Court has decided to allow employers to 
promote a woman over a better qualified man 
simply because of her sex, in the name of 
Affirmative Action. The 1964 
Civil Rights Act mandates 
equal treatment for all 
individuals, to protect these 
individuals from discrimina­
tion. The law specifically prohibits discrim­
ination on the basis of race, sex or religious 
orientation. This new Supreme Court 
decision has taken away rights from people 
who are not members of the “victim” 
collectives (the collectives made up of 
women, blacks ...) in the name of social 
justice. This action has taken justice for the 
individual and mashed it under Justice 
Brennan’s “goals” and “objectives,” namely 
to make the laws see everyone as men, 
women, black, or white instead of seeing 
them as equal.
One of the three dissenting justices wrote: 
“The Court today completes the process of 
converting this from a guarantee that race or 
sex will not be the basis of employment 
determinations, to a guarantee that it often 
will.” This decision is bound to compel 
some employers to adopt intentional 
discrimination against white males in order 
to avoid suits that would otherwise be 
brought by the spurious whims of women or 
minorities who are upset with the free 
system of rewards based on merit and 
achievement.
The really sad thing about this legislation 
is that it will actually be a psychological 
burden to women until it is overturned. 
Whenever a woman gets a promotion over a 
man, she will now ask herself: Did I deserve 
that promotion, or is it just because of my 
sex that I got it? It is shocking that a court 
should find a decision that makes such a 
mockery of women. The only option 
women will have to insure that they will be 
treated equally is to pursue employment at
action plans.
The new Supreme Court ruling will 
bestow the benefits of discrimination against 
white males to some women who have never 
been the victims of discrimination in the 
past. If it can be shown that a woman was 
denied a job or promotion due to her because 
of her sex, she certainly should be awarded 
the position by the courts. However, this 
ruling will give undeserved promotions to 
women who have never been previously 
discriminated against.
Companies realize that to be successful 
they must have people in positions for 
which they are competent. Many of these 
companies realize that to promote someone 
for a reason other than their competency is 
to jeopardize their profit motive. The 
court’s decision will open up the route for 
many lawsuits against companies where 
griping women feel they are not getting a 
more-than-fair shake. The companies must 
either agree to affirmative action programs, 
or pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in 
legal fees to fight the court. This result of 
the decision will undoubtedly have an 
adverse effect on the efficiency of the market 
in the future, an inefficiency that everyone 
will pay for.
Justice Scalia, in his dissent, writes, “We 
effectively replace the goal of a 
discrimination-free society with the quite 
incompatible goal of proportionate 
representation by race and sex in the 
workplace.” One thing that can be done to 
speed up the changes in our society that are 
necessary to make it sex and color blind is 
for President Reagan to eliminate the 
Executive Order 11246. This order confers 
legal status to numerical race and sex quotas, 
part of the basis for the Supreme Court 
decision. This may be done by the President 
himself without congressional cooperation. 
It will be a fast, effective step on the road to 
a discrimination-free society. The quickest 
way to travel this road is to get rid of all the 
laws that accommodate race or sex groups in 
any special way.
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by students 
at no cost to members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or 
staff. Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community. ‘ ‘ v
A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter 
or column. Copyright 1987 by The Tartan. The editonal 
board reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie Melton
University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights reserved
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Good Luck 
CMU Students
with Finals
HmDKDwxx IiDKi£wx
UL5 Nr C2IdO wGr 62U G2eeofdek. Aver
Two 12" 
1 item pizzas for
*9.99
Get two 12" 1-item pizzas for 
Only $9.99.
One Coupon Per Order.
Not Valid With Any Other Offer. 
Expires: May 10,1987 
Limited Delivery Area.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Going for the bronze
By LISA A. SHENKLE
Special to The Tartan
Tanning is much more than a tourist 
phenomenon — it’s a student’s way of life. 
Whether it’s UCLA or Western Michigan, 
the scent of coconut and aloe waft out of 
dorm complexes and hover over open 
stadiums. The student body is obsessed by 
the quest for a knock-out tan!
Jason Vogel, life-long practioner of the 
sport of sun-tanning and author of “The 
Official Suntanner’s Bible” (Acropolis 
Books/$6.95) lends new insight into the 
world of tanning. It’s the ultimate guide for 
those who bask.
Of course tanning in and of itself is 
important, but where you get your tan is 
critical. If it’s on the slopes in Switzerland 
in January it’s much more chic than at a 
West Virginia state park in July. Spring 
breaks and summer vacations never had so 
many options before, so whether you’re 
doing the domestic or international scene 
here are just a few of Vogel’s suggestions:
Best Obvious American Beaches
(Swimsuits mandatory):
1. Hawaii —‘ Everyone wants to come here 
after they win the lottery. Before you lie on 
Waikiki Beach, pay homage at this natural 
temple.
2. San Diego, California — Can there be 
too much of a good thing? No way. San 
Diego has 70 miles of beaches!
3. Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts — 
Comfortably breezy in the summer and the 
scenery is beautiful in the winter.
4. Okracoke, North Carolina — Surf and 
sun of the uncrowded outer banks and a 
pristine environment. If you miss the crowd 
and night life, go to nearby Nags Head or 
Coquina Beach.
5. Montauk Point, New York — This is 
the place to be for the New York tanning jet 
set. Make sure that your black Porsche is a 
convertible.
Best Foreign Beaches
1. Riviera — Worth a visit even if you are 
travelling on a Eurail pass and have to dig
Illustration by Kurt Shaw
deep into the bottom of your backpack for 
some item of clothing that will get you on 
the grounds.
2. Club Med — Amazing time, no 
inhibitions, and not just for doctors.
3. Tahiti — The tropical island where 
businessmen go after they abscond with the 
company funds.
4. Eilat, Israel — Bring your mask and 
snorkel. You won’t have to wear anything 
else.
5. Ios, Greece — You can live for months
continued on Page 14
Nudity, a different way of looking at things
By JOSEPH GOLTON
Special to The Tartan “The greatest thing about nudism is the 
family; the way they get along, the way they walk together, talk together, laugh together
— and nobody thinks anything about it,” 
says Nancy. “Just say you want to join, and 
you’re in,” adds Joe. “We get all 
professions—you could be a laborer or a 
lawyer or a student and it doesn’t really 
matter; you’re all treated the same.”
Joe and his wife Nancy (who asked for their 
last names to be withheld) are strong 
believers in nudism, the practice of nudity 
without separation of the sexes. Joe, in 
additon to being a bus driver and part time 
policeman, is president of the West Penn 
Naturists, an East McKeesport-based nudist 
club. Although Nancy and Joe look to be in 
their early forties, they are both actually past the age of fifty-five. “We think that the 
nudist way of life has helped keep us younger, healthier and more vigorous than 
we would have been if we hadn’t joined the 
club in 1984. It’s a chance to get peace of 
mind, a good tan, a little exercise, and to 
meet all sorts of different people.” 
Throughout the United States, there are 
hundreds of nudist parks, in additon to a 
smattering of nudist travel agencies, 
apartment buildings, and other nudist- 
oriented organizations. Most nudist clubs in 
North America, such as Pittsburgh’s West 
Penn Naturists, are affiliated with the 
American Sunbathing Association (ASA), 
an organization representing nearly 30, 000 
members belonging to over 200 different 
clubs. There are two kinds of ASA clubs: 
landed and unlanded. Unlanded clubs, such as 
the West Penn Naturists, have no permanent 
grounds, and therefore tend to rent out pools 
in the winter and travel in the summer. 
Landed clubs, on the other hand, have 
permanent parks or resorts which cost more 
(sometimes running above $30 per day to stay), but have all the facilities and resources
necessary to sustain campers and/or visitors. 
However, landed or unlanded, they all have a 
common spirit: “The nudist philosophy,” 
states the first page of an ASA pamphlet, “is being nude is being natural. Simply put -
clothed when practical, unclothed when 
possible.”Unfortunately for nudists, unclothed is not 
always possible. “Battles are being fought 
all over,” says Joe, “to uphold the 
constitutional rights of nudists. In New 
York, West Virginia, and Florida, there are 
court cases going on right now. The nudists 
usually win, but it’s a long and costly 
battle.”“And speaking of costly, we once ran a one 
by one inch ad in the travel section of the Sunday Pittsburgh Press for about six or 
eight weeks. It cost us $2000. Usually, newspapers don’t accept anything advertising
Illustration by Kurt Shaw
nudism.” Currently, the base cost per inch of 
column space in the Pittsburgh Press travel 
section is $136.45 for each appearance, 
which, if done for eight weeks, would add up 
to $1050. Different rates are charged for 
different customers. Continues Joe, “that ad 
in 1984 was really successful. It generated 
dozens of new members, mostly couples, 
and is responsible for neal> half our current 
members. You think it’s easy for members 
to get their friends to join, but there’s 
usually only a few of your friends who 
might be interested, and after a while, all 
those leads tend to peter out We’re currently 
at that stage and are seeking interested 
couples or female singles to join - check out 
the next In Pittsburgh paper and you’ll see 
our little ad.” What about guys? “We like to keep a nice balance, and, currently, there are
continued on Page 12
Travel Time
Wfal9§ TimwD Tnmmsf
This week’s city lights gives a few 
ideas about what you could do this 
summer if working just doesn’t seem to 
be the most ideal thing for you.
PflMnnnikg to taivd?
Are you a student planning to travel in 
the U.S., Canada, Europe or Asia?
The Pittsburgh council of the 
American Youth Hostels is ready to 
help answer your questions about the 
worldwide system of international youth 
hostels — their costs, locations, 
customs, etc.
Pittsburgh A.Y.H. can provide you 
with a low-cost intemaional
membership card now before yoiu go, to 
avoid overseas hassles. For more 
information about hosteling contact: 
Pittsburgh A.Y.H.
6300 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
or call 362-8181
GdDMg to Frames®?
Low summer fares has been expanded 
in 1987 to include Boston and 
Washington D.C., to Paris. New York 
to Paris and Nice, gateway to the 
Riviera, are once again available, as last 
year, from Jet Vacations, via Air I 
Charter, the Air France subsidiary.
For information and reservations, 
contact a travel specialist or Jet 
Vacations, in New York City (212) 247- 
0999, elsewhere l-(800) 538-0999
dDnn ydDOjur
Hawaii is paradise. It’s an enchanting 
land of clear, sunny days and balmy 
tropical night, exotic flowers, green rain 
forests and sparkling sandy beaches with 
warm, inviting waters. Booking a 
summertime Hawaiian vacation is 
nearly impossible but not completely. 
Right now there are still rooms 
available at the Sheraton Moana hotel 
on Waikiki Beach.
If you are interested you can contact 
your travel agent or call Pleasant 
Hawaiian Holidays at (800) 2-HAW All.
Wanntl to w©rlk nnn
A brochure is available produced by 
British Universities North America 
Club (BUNAC) from various
organizations. The brochure describes 
the student exchange employment 
program and also includes an application 
if you wish to join.
To get the brochure write to:
CIEE
205 East 42nd Street 
New York, NY 10017 
or call (212) 661-1414 
or for more general information: 
BUNAC, USA 
Box 49
South Britain, CT 06487 
or call (203) 264-0901
JUmê a Mjpnnng
Sprout, an organization based in New 
York City, is looking for people to lead 
trips for developmentally disabled 
people. Prior experience is not necessary 
and the trips range from 5 to 14 days.
There is a $20 per day stipend and 
interested people can contact Sprout at 
(212) 431-1265

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
lii
All items that have been turned into the Skibo Information Desk Lostjfancl Found will be donated to charity on May 15. You should check with the desk prior to the 15th if you have lost 
something.^ MM Bp
CMU Press wins Pulitzer
By KRISTEN HENLEY
Tartan Suxffwriter
Last week,: poetry’s most prestigious literary prize was given to RitaDove for 
her collection of lyric poems» Thomas 
and Beulah. The excitement for us i$ that 
the winning book was published here by the Carnegie Mellon University Press,
The Press which was:, started in 1975 by 
the Director of the Creative Writing 
Program» Gerald Coslanzo, is manned 
virtually alone by him (with the help of 
students in his publishing and editing 
class) and still manages to put out 
thirteen tides a. year,” Six of these are poetry collections. Rita Dove's work was 
first chosen for publication by the CMU 
Press several years ago when Costanzo 
and his team were reading manuscripts of 
people never published by them before. Every November and December, they read 
many such manuscripts from around the 
country in order to publish new names 
and remain diversified.
Rita Dove, is not affiliated with CMU 
and taught at the Arizona State University at Tempe, This is her third book with the 
CMU including The Yellow House on 
the Corner in 1980, Museum in 1983, 
and now Thomas and Beulah in 1986. 
She has also published Callitoo and Ten 
Poems both poetry and Fifth Sunday , a 
collection of short stories» with other 
publishers. .
Thomas and Beulah, a collection of lyric poems which tell the story: of the.jnove 
of a black family: from, rural Alabama to 
Akron» Ohio in the 1930’s is probably 
‘‘invented :auto-biography ” according to 
Costanzo,. . ..:.: r- ^::
Getting around Pittsburgh without clothes isn’t as sexy as you might think
continued from Page 11
more single males than females, although 
the couples make up more than half of our 
club.” Does this present any problems, as it 
does at certain universities? “Not at all,” 
says Nancy. “In most clubs, the numbers are 
about even. In our club of fifty members, 
only fifteen or so are single, and most of 
these are guys. And it’s not like you feel 
pressure or anything. You might feel that 
way the first time, but once you get to talk 
to people and see how friendly everyone is, 
you won’t think anything of it”
Asked if he was worried about adverse 
reactions to publicity, Joe insisted, “Well, 
people who are interested in our ads can read 
them, and those who aren’t can ignore them. 
Actually, though, we’re pretty careful about 
what we say and especially about what we 
do. We don’t want to stir up any kind of 
trouble with the authorities, so we make 
sure not to do anything that might annoy or 
aggravate anyone. We keep a low profile.” 
Responding to that perennial question 
asked by non-nudists, Joe is quick to reply, 
“Do I think sexual tensions present a 
problem? No way. I can’t speak for all the 
clubs in America, but I know that at our 
club, and at the White Thom Lodge in 
Darlington, people are very friendly, 
senstitive and responsible, and that there is 
much less tension among us than among 
normal everyday people. Probably the 
greatest single reason Nancy and I like it so 
much is because it’s so relaxing and tension- 
free. Some guys think, ‘Oh wow, I’ll get to 
look at all those nude girls.’ But it dies 
down very quickly. Bikinis are definitely
more sexy. Besides, the people in our club 
are average. Some are overweight, some are in their eighties, and some have scars from 
operations or injuries.” Adds Nancy, “Some 
women are afraid of how men are going to 
look at them or that they’ll be approached or 
something. It’s not like that at all, though. 
Like Joe says, people are friendly and 
senstiive, and they don’t make you feel 
uncomfortable. You really have to 
experience it to see what I mean.”
So, what does this club do, then? “Well, 
like I said, we’re not a landed club, so we don’t have any grounds of our own. What’s 
worse, we’re spread out all over the 
Pittsburgh area. People still come, though. 
This time of year, we rent out an Olympic 
size pool once per month. It’s got a sauna, 
hot bath, and volleyball court. Volleyball is 
real popular in our club and in others as 
well. We have dinners at people’s houses 
every once in while too. At the first dinner 
we ever gave, thirty-four people showed up! 
In the summer, we travel fairly often to 
parks, especially the one in Darlington 
which is only an hour away.”
Many people who think that the nudist idea 
may be worthwhile, noble, or just plain fun, 
are nevertheless hesitant to try it. Some feel 
they will be ashamed of their far from perfect 
appearance. Others, especially males, may 
fear becoming visibly embarrassed. Still 
others may feel that the habits of many years 
cannot be broken, and that they would 
always be uncomfortable in such situations. 
Nancy says, “If you want it to be 
uncomfortable, it will be, but if you go in 
with an open mind and spirit, it’ll be the
greatest feeling in the world. We all 
understand that people are going to be 
nervous their first time out, and we try to be 
friendly and supportive. It’s always nice to 
come with someone else if it’s your first 
time. I know women are especially afraid to 
come by themselves, so they usually show 
up in groups or with a male friend. The ones 
who come along though don’t have 
problems either. You’re free to keep your 
shorts or a shirt on if that makes you feel 
better. If you go there and you have your 
clothes on, though, you feel kind of stupid. 
Most people, I find, take less than a half 
hour before they forget about the fact that nobody is wearing anything.”
So how can one join such clubs? Anyone 
intersted in obtaining information from this 
local club can write to West Penn Naturists, 
P.O. Box 131, East McKeesport, PA 15035. To obtain a free listing of all the clubs in 
North America, or to purchase park and 
beach guides, write to the American 
Sunbathing Association, 1703 North Main 
Street, Kissimmee, FL 32743-3396. Joe 
claims, “In my opinion, the best way to 
start is just to jump right into a pool or a 
volleyball game and be like everybody else.” 
‘There’s a lot of discussion about nudism, 
like the one we’re having right now,” says 
Nancy. “You have to experience it through 
before you can really appreciate it I was 
really nervous before the first time, but in 
fifteen minutes, I felt like I’d been doing this 
forever. The families, the kids, the 80 year 
olds — and the rain. You walk nude in the 
rain and it’s really fantastic; an experience of absolute freedom!”

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 13
The best places to tan and how to do it right
cloGdo0e. f2lu tIOe LL
on a Greek Island for the cost of a weekend 
in Honolulu. And the beaches are first rate.
6. Negril Beach, Jamaica — Da sun be 
strong, da wata be warm, and da ganja make 
life slow and easy.
7. Beruwela, Sri Lanka — A major sea and 
sand resort with beaches that match any in 
the world.
Despite the possible harmful effects that 
the sun can have on us, we persist in turning 
our skin into saddle leather. For those who 
spend 365 days a year pursuing the rays and 
for those who try to get that quick-fix tan in 
a week, Vogel has sifted through health 
reports, product claims and beauty tips to 
uncover both the real dangers and actual 
benefits derived from the sun.
The sun as a bad guy can cause bums, 
premature skin aging and increases the 
chances of skin cancer. The sun as a good 
guy can lower blood pressure (important for 
those calculus exams), heart rate, and blood 
sugar, and most importantly, increase sex 
hormones!
For those of you planning on spending 
mega-hours in the sun, here are some 
valuable tips to tan by:
•If you think you’re burned, try this little 
test: Push the affected area with your finger. 
If it creates a white patch that quickly returns 
to red when pressure is released, then you are 
sunburned.
•Shade can provide a false sense of security. 
Reflected light from the ground — 
particularly off sand or snow — and more 
potent sunlight can still shower you with 
89% of the ultraviolet rays of the direct sun.
•When choosing a sunscreen, look for active 
ingredients such as paminobenzoic acid
(PABA), benzophenone, and PABA 
derivatives such as isoamyl and glycerol.
•Vitamin C is important because it helps 
prevent a blotchy tan. Foods high in vitamin 
C include citrus fruits, tomatoes, 
cauliflower, cabbage, cucumbers, broccoli, 
parsley, papaya and strawberries.
Let’s face it — with information like this, 
tans don’t have to be limited to Aunt 
Mildred’s backyard. There are ways of 
gaining that four year paid vacation ( you 
may already have it and if you don’t, no need 
to worry, you still have time). Student 
tanners realize that hot weather and 
proximity to water make a natural choice. 
Ray-reflecting ski slopes are of particular 
zeal with this crowd and non-demanding 
academic loads can also qualify a school for 
top tanning status. Just a sampling of 
suggested colleges include:
1. University of California, San Diego: 
Black’s Beach, a nudist’s paradise accessible 
to those who brave sand cliffs, is located in 
the school’s backyard.
2. University of California, Los Angeles: 
Not only should you look like a movie star, 
but it’s OK to wear Vuamets in the lecture 
hall.
3. Jacksonville University, Jacksonville, 
Florida: Known for very light academic 
requirements. Most exams are true-false or 
multiple guess. This leaves lots of time to 
roast on the beach.
4. University of Colorado, Boulder: For a 
strong facial tan, the nearby slopes can’t be 
beat.
5. University of Miami, Coral Gables, 
Florida: The original and official “Suntan 
U.” This school’s quest for academic 
respectability caused it to plummet from No.
1 on the list.
6. St. George’s Medical College, Grenada: 
Harvard may have the prestige, but St. 
George’s graduates get the best tanning rays.
7. The University of Maryland, College 
Park: This barely southern school makes the 
Top Ten because of the tenacity of its 
students. The aluminum (reflecting) benches 
of the stadium are called “Byrd Beach.”
8. Boston University, Boston, 
Massachusetts: One would expect that the 
trustees would transfer their financial assets 
from South Africa to Bain de Soleil. During 
those cold spells, the shiny slopes of 
Vermont are close by.
9. University of Arizona, Tucson: Atop the 
Arizona-Sonora dorms, coeds can and do 
bathe topless with privacy.
10. Tulane, New Orleans, Louisiana: Long 
Islanders flock here for extended lawn- 
lounging season.
But never fear — graduation brings with it 
some bronze-star occupations. Forget what 
your parents told you about being 
respectable. Being respectable never got you 
a second glance at Spring Break or your 
cousin’s beach house, so why should it 
now? Consider the life of a golf pro — with 
caddy, of course, sailing instructor, raft 
renter, porpoise trainer, construction worker, 
Club Med host/hostess or anything on a 
cruise ship. Now, don’t you wish you’d 
majored in General Studies?
“The Official Suntanner’s Bible: The 
Lighter Side of Dark” by Jason Vogel 
($6.95) published by Acropolis Books Ltd. 
is a humorous look at the world of 
suntanning. Vogel takes us to popular 
tanning spots around the world and in our 
own backyard. He helps us choose our
sunglasses, determine our skin type, offers 
remedies for overcooked bods, and really puts 
forth some very healthy and sensible advice 
on tanning booths, suntan lotions, skin care, 
and all aspects of living our lives under the 
sun.
Have fun in the sun, all 
summer long!
______The features staff.
Solution to the 
Logic Problem on 
Page 14
Alvin, the music major, 
ordered the turkey sandwich and preferred Salads. Andrew, the art 
major, ordered the tomato 
thing and preferred Salads. Anthony, the SDS major, 
ordered the chef salad and 
had no preference. Barbara, the math major, 
ordered pizza diskettes and 
preferred Morewood.Carol, the physics major, 
ordered the tuna sandwich and preferred the Tartan Grill. Denise, the SUPA 
student, ordered the fruit 
plate and preferred Scotland Yard.
Now... Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Fulton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Women's «^.^1 Health Services
Free pregnancy testing daily Call for hours and instructions 
Al>ortion services and confidential counseling available.
GOING HOME?
We can package any item and ship 
anywhere via UPS, truck or air .. . 
domestic and international.We sell BOXES and Tape!
• wGe2els • CklG$es • Ref2dOe2IGl2s
• CI2SeGs • T20oks • F02odG02e
• sllks • Tnhs • A2Gwl2k
• nCRhs • wkds • CluS0Ge2s
FREE PICK UP FOR CMU
Friday, May 1 • Skibo, Grey Matter Area 12:00 noon to 6:00 pm Monday, May 4 • Donner Lobby 12:00 noon to 8:00 pm Wednesday, May 6 • Morewood Rec Room 
12:00 noon to 8:00 pm
7206 McKnight Rd. • Phone: 412-364-7547
eierf***
Our reputation stands for quality haircare and up to the minute styling...all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00only $13.00only $8.00
Complete with writtenComplete with shampooCut only
guaranteeand blow styleJ
I
wATIwFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON
~SAVE~$2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
z VuudA 7jonAdT
IApril 30,1987
NOAPPO«NTMtNT^'
imCmooenc««COT HfCCTOTlMS.
PRECISION HAIRCUT TEOS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—April 28, 1987
A little logic problem to clear the mind during finals...
By GLENN CASSIDY
Special to The Tartan
Six CMU students decided to meet one Friday 
noon for lunch. From the clues given below you 
should be able to match each person’s name 
with his/her major, lunch choice, and preferred 
eating establishment. Be careful not to assume 
anything other than the information explicitly 
given in the problem; it is indeed possible to 
solve the problem only with the information 
given below.
The six students are (in no particular order) 
Alvin, Anthony, Andrew, Barbara, Carol and 
Denise. The first three are men, and the last 
three, women. Their majors are (again, in no 
particular order) art, math, music, physics, 
SUPA, and Social and Decision Sciences 
(SDS). The first four are undergraduates, and 
the last two, graduate students. The preferences
for where to go for lunch are (again in no special 
order) Morewood, Tartan Grill, Salads, Scotland 
Yard, and No Preference. Two people had Salads 
as their preference, and one person each preferred 
the other places (or had No Preference). The items 
which were ordered for lunch are turkey sandwich, 
tuna sandwich, “the tomato thing,” fruit plate, pizza 
diskettes, and chef salad.
Each person has just one major, one preference, 
and one entree. Good luck!
1. Both CFA students (i.e. the art and music 
majors) wanted to go to Salads. Barbara, Denise 
and the Physics major voted against this. The SDS 
student had no preference.
2. After going to Salads and finding no empty 
tables, the group went to Scotland Yard, which 
was not Barbara’s choice.
3. When Dutch, the waiter, arrived, the math 
major ordered pizza diskettes; the two sandwiches
were ordered by the music major and the person 
who preferred the Tartan Grill. Andrew ordered 
the tomato thing, and the SUPA student had the 
fruit platter. The SDS student couldn’t decide and 
told the waiter that he would order when the 
drinks came.
4. Carol was not a music major.
5. The SDS major had shared an apartment with 
Alvin the previous semester, and with Carol the 
semester before that, but still hadn’t decided 
where to live for the summer.
6. After lunch the physics major and the person 
who ordered the turkey sandwich both ran off to 
a swim class. Barbara and the SUPA student 
both headed to the library, while the other two sat 
in the Yard for another round of Jolt.
Tön® §©DuQ(tn©iiii n§ ®nn fc pn°@vn©nD§
Summer Housing 
Near Campus
• Furnished Rooms & 
Apartments, Private Bath
• All Utilities Paid
• Maid & Linen Service
• Laundry & Parking 
Only $70.00 weekly 
$230.00 monthly
GETTING THIS WASNT EASY.
WITH FORD CREDIT GETTING THIS...
FROMYOUR WORLD CLAww IOtITTwsURGH METRO FORD DEALERw kIr
f 
I 
%
rnIirm
At your World Class Pittsburgh Metro ^ coLi£c 
Ford Dealers, we know getting ^ —
that degree wasn’t easy. But when 
it comes to a new car, we can help with 
pre-approved credit from Ford Credit.
If you are working on an advanced 
degree or graduating with a Bachelor’s 
Degree between October 1,1986 and 
September 30,1987, you may qualify 
for this special college graduate 
purchase program.
If you do, you’ll receive a $400 cash 
allowance from Ford. Make your best 
deal on any qualifying vehicle and use 
the money toward your down payment,
\ c >
SE P^°
Ford Motor
Credit
Company
or Ford will send you a $400 check 
after the purchase or lease. The money 
is yours whether you finance or not.
The amount of your credit depends 
on which of these qualified vehicles 
you choose:
Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus.
Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II, 
Ranger.
So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer 
stock you must order by June 1,1987, 
and you must take delivery of any 
vehicle by August 31,1987.
MAKE IT EASY ON YOURSELF. GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT
&nrico s
International
WASH s':atv 
and CUT 
$1000
or
JUST CUT 
$8oo
with this coupon 
I have the edge in men s hair styling!
ProvMbig International looks In hair styling tor men tor Itio past IS years
119 Meyran Avenue. Oakland 
Between Forbes and Fifth
682-UgU8 MON. - 9:30-2:00 P.M.TUES. - SAT. - 9.30-5:00 P.M.Walk In orAppointment Appreciated
Expires 4/28/87
Diskettes
CALL TODAY ! 
Unconditional Guarantee
260
each
1.09
each
1.39
each
890
each
5-1/4" DS/DD 
Lots of 200
Sleeves & Tabs 
Included 
Shipping: $5.00 first 200 
$4.00 each add‘1 200
IBM-AT 5-1/4" 
High Density 
Lots of 50 
Sleeves & Tabs 
Included 
Shipping: $4.00 first 50 
$1.00 each addl 50
3-1/2" DS/DD 
Lots of 50
Shipping: $4.00 first 50 
$2.00 each addl 50
3-1/2" SS/DD 
Lots of 50
Shipping: $4.00 first 50 
$2.00 each addl 50
Each Diskette 
100% Certified at Manufacturer 
UfeTtme Warranty
« . ..............................I
Allegheny Ford TrutkBabe Charapp FordJohn Coxon & Sons Ford
HARM ARVILkE
Donehoo Ford
BELLEVUE
E.A. Motors
lerghnyFoFn
Humes Brothers FordMtCraekin FordJim McKoin Ford
WEXFORD
Ramsey-Sturman Ford
WEST MIFFLIN
Bob Smith Ford
dTuckB uATaa-a
Stuckey-Emes FordTalarico MotorsTarget FordWoltr & Wind Ford
HEIDELBERGCarC.. r ....... ............ • ..................................................—
University Connection 
1555 West Lane Avenue 
Columbus. Ohio 43221
USA ORDERS 800-443-0351 
OHIO ORDERS 800-443-6217

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1987—The Tartan—Page 15
This is the Last IM Report!
Indoor Soccer Champions
Minors-The Waw Waw II’s capped off a 
perfect 7-0 season in defeating the Boss 
Hogs 5-1 in the Championship game. 
Freshman Benjamin Daley was named MVP. 
Daley led the Waw Waw II’s in the game 
with 2 goals and one assist.
Intermediates- The Staff Members completed 
a perfect season as well with a 6-1 
Championship victory over PiLam A. The 
Staff Members were led by Brett 
Champagne's and Jeff Soller's 2 goals 
apiece. Goalie Randy Houk of the Staff 
Members was voted MVP for his excellent 
tending throughout the year.
Majors- In a rematch of the Major’s Outdoor 
Soccer Championship game Real Mellon 
North defeated Real Mellon South 7-2. After 
trailing 2-1 in the first period Real Mellon 
North scored 6 consecutive goals to take the 
commanding lead 7-2. Frank Pfenning and 
Lucien Brush had hat tricks for North. With 
the victory Real Mellon North completed a 
sweep of both Indoor and Outdoor soccer 
Championships. Paul Black of Real Mellon 
North was voted MVP.
Floor Hockey
Minors - In a high-scoring Championship, 
Pandemonium Chloride (nice name, guys!) 
held off a strong Dining Dynamo effort to
capture the title. Kevin Murtha and Eric 
Pitchford were the offensive stars for the 
winners, accounting for 3 and 4 goals 
respectively. Pandemonium Chloride's 
George Zaglakas was voted MVP. Final 
score was 7-5.
Majors - A last-minute goal by Last Year's 
Champs' Dave Lowenstein proved to be the 
game winner as the team held off the strong 
Kappa Sig team to capture the Majors title. 
Last Year's Champs, consisting of SUPA 
grad students, captured their second straight 
Championship win. Kappa Sig was led by 
Dave Nardozzi who was their only scorer. 
Minors All Stars Teams Selected
First Team:
Kevin Murtha (Pandemonium Chloride) 
Eric Pitchford (Pandemonium Chloride) 
Bob Pyle (Dining Dynamo)
Paul D’Alessandris (Physics)
Dave Bishop (The Guins)
Mike Emmerth (AFROTC)
Second Team:
George Zaglakas (Pandemonium Chloride) 
Mark Trichtinger (Pandemonium Chloride) 
Tony Cierco (Pandemonium Chloride) 
Kevin Knavish (Dining Dynamo)
Jeff Adler (AEPi)
Marc Bolan (Theta Xi)
Mike Herron (AFROTC)
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh........................................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection............................................................ ...................851 0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Te,-Aid.................................................................................................... . 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
-A-7_
5I68 PEKIN AVE.
Pkme- U6U 
DH z?\'PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.*°tax
Spring Super - Special - F™f[£?pizza
THANK YOU
The Admissions office would like to thank the campus community for pulling together and helping so much for the last sleeping bag campaign. The comments were great and the students enjoyed themselves. Look for them in next year’s freshman class!
Thanks again,

---------------------------------------------------

wSl2Gs
After week of important matches
Tennis Team to Go to PAC’s with 4-0 Conference Record
By NEAL A. LEVENETartan Staffwriter
This year's Men's Tennis team has just 
completed one of their busiest weeks, 
winning three important in-conference 
match-ups. These wins extend the teams 
record to 4-0 in conference and 6-1 overall.
Going back to April 15, the Tartans beat 
Westminster College 5-4 in a very 
closely fought out-of-conference match. 
After singles play the match had been tied 3- 
3 with most of the single matches going 
a full three sets. It took a #3 doubles tie­
breaker win in the third set to break a 4-4 tie 
after the #1 and #2 doubles matches had 
been played. Westminster is a Division in 
team, however, it is not in the PAC.
On Monday, April 20, the Tartans 
face 1 Washington & Jefferson in a match 
that was originally rained out on April 4.
Thé team won the match 5-4 taking 3 of the
6 singles matches and 2 out of the 3 
doubles matches. The team also beat 
Grove City (6-3) and John Carroll (6-2) this 
week, putting the team in fairly good 
position for the upcoming Presidents 
Athletic Conference Championship to be 
played at John Carroll on May 1-2. Coach 
Peter Hawk expects that if any team could 
give the Tartans trouble it would be John 
Carroll. John Carroll was missing three of 
its players regular players for the match.
Their #1, #3, #4 singles players were 
unable to play the match because of 
injuries in two cases and a major exam in 
another. This meant that the #2, #5, and 
#6 players should have moved up to #1, #2, 
and #3, however, this would have made 
the match meaningless. Coach Hawk, 
therefore, allowed John Carroll to replace the 
vacant positions with second stringers.
In the "real" matches where both teams
Excellent Participation bv Athletes. Volunteers
First Annual Triathlon Goes Off as Great SuccessBy DON GAMBLETartan Sports Editor
Sponsored by both the Intramural 
Department and the Office of Student 
Affairs, the First Annual Carnegie Mellon 
Triathlon was held on campus last Saturday. 
With 150 participants, the Triathlon enjoyed 
a successful debut, and hopes are higl for 
next year’s race being twice as successful.
The three events of the meet were a 400- 
yard swim in the Thistle Pool, followed by a
10-mile bicycle race through Schenley Park 
and the buggy course, and concluding with a 
3-mile run back through Schenley along part 
of the cross-country course and up Forbes 
Avenue to the front of Skibo. Participants 
raced either as individuals or as 3-person 
teams that split each event. The winners of 
the individual meets in the male and female 
divisions were awarded lunch for two at 
Vincent’s Restaurant in Oakland.
In the Men's individual race, Sophomore 
Greg Schooley took first with a winning 
time of :57.03, followed by Senior Spencer 
Barrett with :59.13, while Bill Kanarek took 
third with a time of :59.40. Cheryl Kennedy 
was the Women's winner, finishing at 
1:13.55. Sophomore Fransesca Cranell 
captured second with a time of 1:14.17, 
while Senior Robin Mechlowitz placed third 
with 1:15.34.
Team competitions were held in the Men's, 
Women’s and Coed Divisions. Finishing 
before Schooley was the Men’s team of Matt 
Epstein, Felix Fukui and Greg Bergere with 
a total time of :53.41. The Women’s team of 
Seniors Nancy Ott and Maureen 
Stempkowski, along with Hoopster Val 
Sooky took the race with a winning time of 
1:17.20. The winning Coed team was made 
up of Freshman Tiffany Pickering, John 
Pane and Allen Berger.
Despite the uncertainty expected with this 
being the first year for the Triathlon, 
every thing went fantastically, according to
co-commissioner Donna Morosky, who, 
along with Intramural Athletics Director EJ. 
Birdy, set up the race. "It was great,” said 
Morosky. "Not just the participation, but 
everything went smoothly. There were no 
injuries but we had plenty of volunteers to 
help out in case there were. The police 
support was excellent as well. It went off 
extremely well."
According to Morosky, several of the 
participants expressed their satisfaction with 
the Triathlon in all of its aspects and several 
of the volunteers who helped with the race 
were impressed with the high level of 
organization and safety that the race 
provided. "So many people told me that they 
would definitely be back next year. It made 
me look forward to it. We're meeting next 
week to plan for next year, to improve it. 
We wan a lot more people next time, but 
we’re going to have to enlarge things to 
adapt to that many participants." This year’s 
race was mostly run by students, with a 
distinct faculty showing, but next year 
Morosky hopes to get a lot of Carnegie 
Mellon Alumni involved, while in coming 
years the race may become open to local 
competitors. "We want to keep it to 
ourselves for a while though," said 
Morosky.
The success of the event certainly warrants 
extra planning for the coming year, since the 
expected 200 participants of next year’s race 
wili require a considerable amount of 
additional space so that the competitors 
won’t interfere with each other in the race. 
At any rate, the race certainl/ was a success 
and is expected to become a popular 
medium for intramural competition in the 
future.
Special thanks are given to all volunteers 
and participants, and especially to Mr. Birdy, 
Mrs. Morosky and Joe Maser for a 
spectacular race.
were playing their first string players, the 
two teams tied 2-2.
A surprising development in the John 
Carroll match was that Sophomore Drama 
student Keith Grumet replaced sophomore 
Graham McAfee at #1 singles. Coach 
Hawk stated, "I am 75% sure that I'm going 
to leave keep Graham at #2 and Keith at 
#1. Keith and Graham are really close in 
ability. Graham is struggling at #1, and he 
lost at #2 against John Carroll. However, 
the #2 player for John Carroll will probably 
be seeded #1 in the PAC." The move should 
not damage Grumet's or McAfee's seeding 
appreciably because the only matches 
that are considered for seeding purposes are 
wins at an equal or higher position and 
losses at a equal or lower position. Hawk 
expects either a #3 or #4 seeding for both his 
#1 and #2 players.
Coach Hawk is pleased with his teaj tis 
performance. "We've done well in our
matches. The team is tough when they have 
to be. We’ve won close matches. \ye 
have a lot of depth." Sophomore Jay 
Stevens commented, "Our strength lies in 
our depth. We have pretty good depth w$dc$ 
should save us if we have a little trouble 
with the top two."
Sophomore Darin Kaplan (#3) and J0odl2 
Rob Schlackman (#4) are both undefeated do 
the PAC. The doubles teams lf 
Schlackman and Stevens at #2 Io. 
McAfee and Dave Dillon at #3 are Iksl 
undefeated. The Coach expects five #1 
seedings: Kaplan (#3), Schlackman (#4)i
Stevens (#6), and the #2 and #3 doubles 
teams.
The team has one more match to be 
played before the finals. The Tartans wdkk 
face Thiel College on April 28 at 3:30 at 
home. The Championship will be 
played at John Carroll on May 1-2.
Tracksters Crush 
Hiram , Washington 
and Jefferson,
Fall to Grove City
By DON GAMBLETartan Sports Editor
The Tartan Track teams finished their 
regular season this past week with two wins 
against Washington and Jefferson and 
Bethany, while losing to Grove City in a 
dual meet on Saturday. Despite the one loss, 
the Tartans will enter the President's Athletic 
Conference (PAC) finals next Saturday with 
a 4-1 record for dual meets. If this past week 
is any indicator, the Tartans will certainly 
be, as usual under Coach Meckley's 
direction, another PAC Championship team.
Last Wednesday the Tartans defeated 
Washington and Jefferson with a 99-45 
score and Bethany by 91-57 in a tri-meet 
with the two teams. Although confident in 
entering their meet against Grove City last 
Saturday, the Tartans still suffered defeat 
against this year's rivals by thirty points, 
with a Grove City wiir of 87-57.
Despite the loss, several Tartans were 
worth their weight in gold as their excellent 
performances added the needed points for the 
team. Sophomore James Kelly gave the 
Tartans their only dual win, with a discus 
throw of 132'10.5" and a javelin throw of 
153' 10.5". Among the other Tartan winners 
were Freshman Allen Loveless who took 
first in the 100m race (: 11.19) and second in 
the 200m run. Junior Damien McKnight 
placed first for the Tartans in the 400m
Intermediate Hurdles with a time of :55.5Z 
which was a new Grove City track recorc 
Sophomore Pat Noll won the 5000m run i 
a time of 15:56.82, while David White wo 
the pole vault with a jump of 12’6".
Despite the loss to Grove City, the team i 
still looking forward to a PA( 
championship. "We still have a goo 
chance," said one trackster."It all come 
down to whether we want it enough or noi 
The loss to Grove City was all we needed t 
knock us back into shape. We want it now."
The Women's Track team, who will ato 
go to the same PAC finals at Hiram Colleg 
next weekend, placed second in a meet thi 
week at Robert Morris College. The Tartan 
fell behind Grove City (64 points) with 
score of 55 points. Hiram took third plac 
with 40 points.
This coming Saturday will determine th 
PAC Champs for 1987, when Hiram host 
the PAC finals for the year. The Tartani 
under Meckley's direction, should give 
winning showing, but then again, they wer 
supposed to defeat Grove City as well. Th 
Tartans however are still confident that the 
will win the meet. Said one trackster, "W 
can win, and we will win." Last week's 2- 
performance indeed indicates the potential fo 
Meckley to add another notch to his annu£ 
win column.
Scoreboard
Golf
Griffin Invitational 
held 0 Allegheny College 
Winner - Slippery Ro.ck (750) 
Carnegie Mellon - 12th place 
of 16 competing teams.
Lacrosse
Carnegie Mellon 15 
Morgantown 3
Carnegie Mellon 25 
Slippery Rock 3
------------
