The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 2, September 17, 1985.
Speeches, protests mark SEI ceremony
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
For freshmen, 1071 Morewood Avenue is 
the site of an all male dormitory. For retur­
ning students, however, this location is bet­
ter known as the former residence of Zeta 
Beta Tau fraternity.
ZBT was banished from the campus last 
year by the University Disciplinary Commit­
tee when members of the fraternity were in­
volved in a fight with members of the Korean 
Student Association. According to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, two individuals 
within the Korean Student Association in­
volved in the fight used martial arts weapons 
(called numchucks) and four students had 
to be treated at local hospitals.
At the time of the fight, the fraternity was 
on probation due to an incident which had 
occurred the previous year. In 1983, three
freshmen were hospitalized after ingesting 
excessive amounts of alcohol at a ZBT party.
The decision was made over the summer 
to use the house as a freshmen dorm for this 
year only. Interfraternity Council President 
Adam Susser reported that the IFC agreed 
to the arrangement, since debts are owed on 
the building and they would have been 
charged for the year.
According to freshmen living in the house 
now, the decision to use the site as a dorm 
must have been a last minute one judging 
from the condition of the house when they 
arrived.
One freshman, Charles Dunston, said, 
“The place looked like a construction site.” 
He arrived the day before freshmen camp 
and helped several R.A.’s move all of the 
furniture which was placed on the ground 
level, upstairs into the individual
rooms. At this time there were no locks on 
the doors, nothing in the windows and most 
of the house had not been painted.
When the freshmen returned from camp, 
some improvements had been made. Locks 
on the doors had been installed. Also, con­
tractors had been hired to paint the house. 
Door knobs, locks and mirrors had been 
covered with paigt.
The R.A., Tom Adams, looks at some of 
the more positive features of the house. He 
says a new phone system has been installed 
and all of the rooms have been carpeted. 
This past week, new furniture was received 
for the lounge as well as a mailbox and 
blinds for the windows.
In the meantime, the freshmen have at­
tempted to remove some of the unnecessary.
continued on pag« 2
Features
Industrial designers...............page 7
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.................page 7
Arts & Entertainment
Pittsburgh Symphony...........page 9
Dio.......................................page 11
Sports
Big league upset.................page 13
Cross country record..........page 13
Editorial..............................page 18
Acme..................................page 22
pnuLU uy ili iK rium
Members of local peace groups and other individuals opposed to the Software Engineer­
ing Institute line up on Fifth Avenue at the construction site to protest.
Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguiri tells state and local officials, “Let’s talk 
about peace.” Pennsylvania Governor Richard Thornburgh, seated second from 
right, and others look on.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Construction of the Software Engineering 
Institute (SEI) building at Fifth Avenue and 
Dithridge Street will begin on Sept. 23 and 
will be completed in June 1987.
Pennsylvania Governor Richard Thorn­
burgh, Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguiri, 
Congressman John P. Murtha (D. —Pa.) and 
other government officials attended a 
ceremony at the building site, marking the 
scheduled start of construction.
The ceremony, which included short 
speeches from Thornburgh, Caliguiri, Mur­
tha and CMU President Richard M. Cyert, 
also marked a final effort by local peace 
groups to protest the SEI.
A seemingly unperturbed Cyert addressed 
state and local officials over the shouts of 
several dozen protestors, who stationed 
themselves along Fifth Avenue outside the 
site. The group, comprised mainly of CMU 
Peace Alliance members, had begun gather­
ing shortly before the 2 p.m. ceremony. 
Several protestors distributed leaflets to 
passersby.
Above chants of “Listen to the madness” 
and “Books not bombs, peace not war”, Cyert 
spoke of the SEI’s potential to lead to the 
development of “spin-off” advanced 
technology companies.
Caliguiri, however, acknowledged the
group, saying that “Some people don’t even 
have the guts to (disagree) properly. . .We 
want peace no more or less than anyone in 
this city and anyone on that sidewalk.” 
The SEI, a $103 million Defense Depart­
ment computer software development pro­
ject, was awarded to CMU last January after 
a national competition.
“We’re very concerned about the direction 
of the science in this country,” said Peace 
Alliance member Andy Hisgen. “(The SEI) 
is just another small step in that process. 
CMU should be resisting that process.”
The Regional Industrial Development 
Corporation of Southwestern Pennsylvania 
(RIDC) is responsible for the construction 
and management of the 152,000-square-foot 
facility, which is expected to cost $18.5 
million.
RIDC president Frank Brooks Robinson 
also spoke at the ceremony, naming the SEI 
as one means of “the diversification of the 
economic base of Pittsburgh and Western 
Pennsylvania.”
“Pittsburgh and Southwestern Penn­
sylvania have come into the age of ‘ high 
tech’,” he concluded.
(The SEI) will have much more of an im­
pact on commercial areas than on defense,” 
CMU Provost Angel Jordan said. “This will 
change Pittsburgh.”
Thornburgh praised CMU and the city of
Pittsburgh, saying that he was “very proud 
to take part in initiating the construction.” 
“(The project) is no piece of cake,” he jok­
ed, referring to the large, white cake which 
resembled a scale model of the planned 
building.
During the cake and punch reception that 
followed, Cyert said he wasn’t surprised by 
the protest: “We always expect protest. It’s 
all part of the fun.” Cyert reiterated his stand 
on classified research at the SEI: “If it’s 
classified then I forbid it.”
“Computer Science has more research 
money from the Department of Defense 
than the SEI does and there is no classified 
research,” he added.
According to members of the River City 
Campaign, which also participated in the 
protest, Provost Jordan, who did much of the 
negotiating for CMU’s contract with the 
DoD, “has admitted that certain members 
of the SEI will have access to classified in­
formation.”
Several CMU faculty members, including
Physics professor Lincoln Wolfenstein, have 
voiced opposition to the SEI. Wolfenstein’s 
article, “Is the SEI Really Good for CMU?”, 
which appeared in Focus, the CMU 
faculty magazine, was among the literature 
distributed at the SEI forum last April. Ac­
cording to Hisgen, several Physics professors 
came to the actual protest, but had to leave 
early to teach classes.
“We know we can’t do anything to stop 
(the SEI), but we let them know how we 
feel,” said Peace Alliance member Catherine 
Singstad. “I’m sorry that most people on 
campus don’t even know anything about it.”
According to the SEI consultation 
schedule, excavation of the parking lot will 
begin on Sept. 23. Initial occupancy of the 
building will begin March 15, 1987, three 
months before scheduled project comple­
tion. The general contractor is Turner Con­
struction Company.
In This Issue:
News
Physical Plant saves Skibo page 4Freshmen move into ZBT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
Freshmen move
continued from page 1
paint and are awaiting the arrival of a televi­
sion and hopefully a ping-pong table.
The freshmen may not like the house 
itself, but they do like being situated in the 
middle of fraternity quad. They have access 
to all of the parties and most are consider­
ing pledging this year.
Next year, the house will be occupied by 
a fraternity, but as of yet, one has not been 
chosen. Dr. Braden Walter, Dean of Student 
Affairs, was unavailable for comment on this 
subject.
According to Greek Advisor Jay Carson, 
three on-campus fraternities are interested 
in the house and in becoming members of 
the Interfraternity Council. They are Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, Kappa Delta Rho and Tau Delta 
Phi.
Tau Delta Phi is the new name for the ex- 
on-campus fraternity, Zeta Beta Tau. In 
hopes of recovering their house and regain­
ing the trust of the university, they have par­
ticipated in several events. Tau Delta Phi 
built and manned the information booth for 
last year’s Spring Carnival. They also par­
ticipated in a fund raiser by answering the 
phones at WQED radio station.
Carson also said that three very strong 
fraternities who are not represented on cam­
pus have expressed interest in having the 
house.
The final decision will be made after 
much consideration by the administration 
and with a recommendation from the Inter- 
Fraternity Council. Both of these approvals 
are necessary because the fraternity chosen 
will have to meet the standards of these 
establishments.
The IFC is in the process of interview­
ing all of the interested fraternities. A deci­
sion may be reached at the end of this 
semester or the beginning of next semester.
photo by Colin RaffertyDiscarded trophies greeted freshmen moving into the formef Z^T house^ this semester.
CMU to contribute to writing center
funds available. ' The center will work closely with the Bay
“A recent NIE report, ‘Involvement in Area and National Writing Projects, an
Learning: Realizing the Potential of award-winning program for the training of
American Higher Education,’ noted that the teachers of writing.
sharpest decline m Graduate Record Ex- Each university in the proposed consor- 
amination scores between 1964 and 1982 oc- tium will integrate its own research on writ-
curred in subjects requiring high verbal ten language around the center s objectives,
skills,” she adds. Carnegie-Mellon’s contribution to the
“In higher education, developing ‘literate’ center will be a continuation of its study on
students means teaching the hard skills of cognitive processes in writing and in reading
analysis, synthesis and problem-solving. to write. Flower and Professor John R. Hayes
Good writers must plan, test and revise,” says are principal investigators for the CMU
CMU Professor Linda Flower. study.
PITTSBURGH--A National Center for 
Research in Writing, involving the Univer­
sity of California’s School of Education, 
Carnegie-Mellon University and Stanford 
University, may become a reality by the 
autumn of 1985.
The National Institute of Education 
(NIE) has awarded a preliminary grant to 
the University of California at Berkeley’s 
School of Education to formulate plans for 
a center. When it becomes a reality, the 
center will be the first national effort of its 
kind, with $1 million a year in research
FOR THE 
CHALLENGE YOU 
WANT. . .
Challenge without reward is incomplete. Air 
Force ROTC offers both. You’ll receive leader­
ship and management training, and after gradua­
tion you’ll be an Air Force second lieutenant.
You may be eligible for 2-through 4-year 
scholarships which pay tuition, books, lab fees 
and $100 tax-free each academic month.
Look into your future as an Air Force officer. 
Challenges ... and rewards for a career with 
pride and commitment. Contact:
Captain Carter Porter Hall 15 
578-8747
Gateway to a great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

• Is population growth a crisis.. .or a 
blessing?
• Can anything be done about famine?
• How can we support the growing num­
ber of elderly?
• Why are so many of our children grow­
ing up in poverty?
These and other important social and 
moral concerns will be the focus of a 
campus-wide course:
99-100: Global Population: Myths, real­
ities and policies.
WfeN. The course will be held in Skibo 
on the afternoon and evening of Friday, 
September 27 and all day on Saturday, 
September 28.
Fir Win. The course is available for 2 
units of academic credit to all full-time 
CMU undergraduate and graduate stu­
dents. The course is open on an audit 
basis to the entire CMU community: 
students, faculty, alumni, staff, and to 
their invited guests. All audit and credit 
participants must pre-register. Outside 
guests and alumni participants will be 
asked to pay a small registration fee.
RMiriraMts For Crain For students 
who elect to take the course for credit 
there will be a set of required readings 
available in the bookstore and at registra­
tion tables on campus.
There wiH be a brief quiz on the read­
ings during the course. There will be a 
follow-up writing assignment involving an 
essay of between 1,000 and 1,500 words.
For further information visit one of the 
registration tables set up on campus, the 
Student Activity Desk in Skibo between 9 
a.m.-5 p.m., or stop by Room 129 Baker 
Hall. Telephone: 578-2672.
Lecturers in the course will include 
many of the leading international experts 
in this field.
Supported by the Office of the President 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

-.fj -,£ *. . «ít 30i>î* »“I*
Page 4—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
'Campus hub' undergoes needed renovations
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Skibo underwent an extensive renovation 
this past summer when its entire water and 
sewage systems were replaced.
Problems with the 25 year old student 
center have been increasing. Two years ago, 
minor leaks were detected in the sewage 
system which were effectively repaired; 
however, within the past year, many more 
severe problems had arisen.
Major leaks which could have caused a 
sanitary health problem were discovered. 
The leakage was severe enough to begin 
displacing Skibos foundation, at which time 
a decision was made to replace the entire 
system.
After Commencement last Spring, Skibo 
was closed for four weeks while the Physical 
Plant replaced and improved both the water 
and sewage systems. The improvement came 
about . . because of Physical’s Plant’s atten­
tion to the needs of expansion on campus. 
Both Skibo and UDS have grown over the 
years and still are. .,” said Physical Plant and 
Operations Director, Michael Corletti.
The project, which included replacing the 
main sewer line, as well as improvements on 
the minor lines and the water system, was 
expedited by Physical Plant in an effort to 
reopen the vital hub of campus activity as 
soon as possible. “We had most of the base­
ment and kitchen ripped up and could not
allow the building to operate for safety and 
health reasons. . .We had two and three 
shifts a day working diligently to rush the 
projects,” Corletti said. They finished prior 
to the beginning of Summer session, produc­
ing little inconvenience to the community.
Although costing $75,000, the project was 
desperately needed, according to Corletti. f 
He concluded that “. . . no one really sees 
and feels the effects of what we do, but it’s 
really there.”
ROTC offers leadership 
training, survival skills
More than 65,000 college students are 
enrolled in Army ROTC at the colleges and 
universities which offer the program across 
the country. Currently, 12,000 are receiving 
financial assistance through Army ROTC 
scholarships. This indicates that some 
53,000 college students are enrolled in 
ROTC for something other than the 
monetary benefits.
Academic schedules are tight, and adding 
ROTC classes to an already busy schedule 
can place demands on a students time. Why, 
then, do so many college students put forth 
the extra effort to be a part of the ROTC 
program? The fact is that they perceive the 
benefits to be very real.
First, many students realize that ROTC 
leadership training will help prepare them 
for a career both in or out of military ser­
vice. This perception is shared by employers 
who feel that the responsibilities given junior 
officers equip them equally well for cor­
porate life. This training also helps develop 
character.
Second, the prospect of obtaining a com­
mission as an Army officer is very appeal­
ing. Third, the courses will help one get 
physically fit . . . mentally alert . . . and 
have more fun all at the same time. Students 
will participate in challenging activities such 
as rappelling, orienteering and first aid. 
They’ll gain confidence and develop sur­
vival skills. Finally, there are financial 
benefits for all Advanced Course cadets in 
the form of subsistence allowance and pay 
earned at Advanced Camp.
A group of non-ROTC students were 
asked during an attitudinal survey to rate 
their peers in ROTC. They agreed that 
cadets are characterized by such terms as 
dedicated, disciplined, hard-working and 
patriotic.
If you would like to add Army ROTC to 
your schedule, visit the the Military Science 
Department in B7 of Margaret Morrison for 
an add/drop slip prior to September 16, and 
learn more about the Army ROTC Program.
Student killed by 
drunk driver
A CMU Architecture major was killed this summer in an accident with a 
drunk driver.
Daniel “DJ” Hosterman, formerly of Clifton Park, New York, was struck 
down while walking his bicycle across a traffic intersection. The driver of the 
automobile was hospitalized and taken into police custody.
Daniel, who would have returned for his sophomore year at CMU this Fall, 
was described by one friend as “a very different kind of person. He was really . 
creative--he expressed through his work what he didn’t always express in
more intothe actual building. He wouldn’t stop
with something until he was finished.’
by Ayn Rand, to be placed in Hunt Library in Daniel’s 
“He definitely left his mark on all of us,” one friend said.
Procter & Gamble
TECHNICAL CAREER SEMINAR
From 1-4 p.m., Monday, September 23rd 
Wherret Room?, Skibo
i * i i1 »V-,
DIVISIONS REPRESENTED:
Product Research Et Development 
Engineering
»i
» i

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 1985-The Tartan-Page 5
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 7:08 pm.
PRESENT: Be«, Chu, Cohen, DeBroff, 
DeLeon, Flynn, Jagerski, Kissner. Lee, Lee, 
Murphy, Rocher, Salomon, Simmons, Taylor, 
Whysel, Dean Cox, Dean Walter.
ABSENT: Brooks, Chun, Harrison, Hynes, 
Miller, Novak (excused), Sally, Shuldiner.
Minutes of September 3 approved.
Student Senate Minutes
:
FRED ROGERS:
The Vice President of Business Affairs, Mr. 
Rogers addressed the Senate concerning center 
and parking situation.
The Conference Center will hopefully be ap­
proved during the campus master planning ses­
sion in October but is not a commitment yet. 
The firm that designed the center is one of the 
largest in the nation dealing with this type of 
construction, as the recreational center design­
ed last year by a Pittsburgh Firm was deemed 
unacceptable. Plans for this facility include a 
ground coverage between Skibo and the 
stadium, “working with the gym."
At the end of the month, the Bureau of Mines 
building will belong completely to the Univer­
sity. Plans for this include an expansion of the 
Hammerschlag Hall laboratories, a new Science 
Engineering Building, and parking garages with 
expanded laboratory space on the top. Other 
possibilities include expansion of Hammerschlag 
Hall “Electronic Technologies,” and an expan­
sion of GSIA.
The conference center will be built in the 
Morewood parking lot. Group seminars and 
meetings will take place there, hopefully in in­
teraction with CMU. Parking will have to be 
replaced, but the complex should provide stu­
dent employment and internships. The final 
decision on this venture will be made in October.
Q, Why should the hotel be built there and 
not next to Scaife?
A: There was a previous proposal but because 
of the terms of Mary Schenley’s will, this would 
be legally impossible.
Q: What sort of money or other benefits are 
in it for CMU?
A: The school does not intend to sell this land 
but to lease the ground for this project, in the 
hope of receiving one million dollars a year in
Q,; Will the facility be accessible to student 
groups for their own purposes?
A: Certainly, but this will not be “Discount 
economy stuff.”
Q: Will parking be done before or after the 
hotel will be built?
A: Hopefully it will be soon. No digging will 
begin in Morewood for at least another year.
Q,: Why weren’t dormitory and classroom 
space figured into the new expansions?
A: Classroom spaces are included in the Skibo 
complex.
Q.: Does the University need the money that 
much? And why is the theatre the only addi­
tion for CFA?
A: SUPA will move to the Buraeau of Mines 
and CFA will inherit SUP As space in Margaret 
Morrison.
Dean Walter: It must be considered that a lot 
of this plan will not be followed through anyway.
Q: Will CMU get priority for conferences?
A: Mr. Rogers has “every reason to believe” 
it will.
For total proposal, please see the plan map 
dated September 10, 1985.
Q: What will happen to the parking spaces 
in Marybelle and 601 and 630 Clyde Street?
A: As of yesterday, these will be normally run 
CMU parking spaces.
After much debate it was agreed that though 
residents must now pay for the spaces they had 
previously been promised gratis, they would 
receive priority on the parking space list.
DEAN WALTER;
Nominations were submitted for the follow­
ing Board of Trustees committees:
Student Affairs: Peter Cohen, Diane Ceorno. 
Building/Grounds: Joe Murphy, Steve Volan, 
Leslie Frank.
Development: Michael Bett, Ed Tecot. 
Finance: Tony Sargent, Tamal Mukherjee. 
Alumni: Colleen Harrison.
Educational Affairs: Cindy Taylor, Eric 
Rocher, Brett Whysel, Steve Weller. 
Disciplinary: Peter Cohen, Beverly Meyers, 
Cheri Jagerski, Hilary DeBroff.
Student Affairs; NONE.
Faculty Senate: Ginny Ickes, Peter Cohen. 
Educational Affairs: NONE.
Faculty Senate: Cindy Taylor,Peter Cohen, 
Ginny Ickes, Eric Rocher, Steve Volan.
Also, think about where bike racks could be 
placed on campus.
SDC:
The group is organizing a new committee for 
Educational Programming. If you know of any 
local professionals or friends who would be in­
terested in teaching a seminar or a one-shot lec­
ture, call the SDC office at x2114.
CHAIRMAN:
Resignations have been received from Karen 
DeMelio, Virginia Ickes, and Larry Bach, leav­
ing one seat open for H&SS, three for CIT, and 
one for MCS. Petitions are due thirteen days 
from the 11th.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION:
The Rugby Club needs $320 for goalposts and 
balls. Vote to requisition funds. Vote passes 
unanimously.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS:
Starting a campaign for issues-to-work-on.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
The library has closed the study rooms despite 
last year’s promises to the contrary. As Peter
Cohen observed, it’s getting absurd." Four tables 
at the bottom of the stairs, next to the payphonrs 
will not suffice.
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND HUMAN 
RESOURCES:
Considering a new logo and the uplifting of 
Senate morale.
NEW BUSINESS:
Cindy Taylor reported that a fire alarm rang 
at Morewood at 11:30 Monday night but all the 
firedoors were locked, forcing residents to 
stampede the lobby. A letter of complaint was 
sent to Dr. Cyert, and Mike Bett suggested sen­
ding one to the city fire chief.
ANNOUNCEMENTS;
Copies of the campus master plan will be 
available at Skibo Info.
Academic Affairs will meet after the meeting.
Funding and Recognition will meet Monday at
7:00.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:45.
The Federal Depository Library Program
Bringing 
Government Information 
To You
Information from the Federal 
Government on subjects ranging from 
agriculture to zoology is available at 
Depository Libraries across the nation
You can visit these libraries and use 
the Depository collection without 
charge.
To find one in your area, contact your 
local library or »rite to the Federal 
Depository Library Program. Office of 
the Public Printer. Washington DC 
2(k01
Ths program is sutponed by THe *>ve*ismg Counc* and « a puttc s*»*ee a* »*s outtcatw
INTERVIEWING - 
WHAT’S IT ALL ABOUT?
1. Preparation for the Campus Interview.
2. What Happens in the Campus interview.. .What information is 
Sought... How is it Obtained.. .How is it Used?
3. What Happens After the Campus Interview... How to Follow 
Up... How to Handle a Plant or Office Visit.
These and other questions will be answered in a seminar 
TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 24,1985 at 7:30 P.M. 
IN THE BALLROOM IN SKIBO 
PANELISTS INCLUDE:
Barbara M. Hudson, MELLON BANK 
John J. Cotter, E.l. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & 
COMPANY 
George Pemicano, ARTHUR ANDERSEN AND 
COMPANY
ALL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ARE URGED TO ATTEND
Brinni gniGovne rmt IfrvnanmT 
BrimnYonuUnffNm VmoGnieoTE
ATTENTION FRESHMEN!!
FREE “SHOW-AND-TELL” TRIP TO NEW YORK 
OCTOBER 6-8
For the third year, major publishers and printers in the New York/New Jersey area are 
arranging and sponsoring a high-tech “show-and-teil” for incoming freshmen with 
possible interest in the Graphic Communications Management Program at CMU. These 
firms include such well-known names as Newsweek, Time/Life, Continental Can, R.R. 
Donnelley and others who want to help recruit freshmen for the GCM Program in the 
Department of Industrial Management so that they will have good candidates for jobs after 
graduation. These firms are convinced that once the students see their fantastic production 
systems, they will be hooked for Life! (no pun intended)
Some special features of the trip include:
• Stay at the Roosevelt Hotel near Times Square.
• Time allotted to tour the city.
• Dinners in Chinatown and at Mama Leone's.
• Tours of Time, Newsweek and New York Times operations.
The bus to New York will leave the Skibo parking lot at 9:00AM on Sunday, October 6 
and return on Tuesday night, October 8. All expenses will be paid by the sponsors, so total 
cost to the students is $0, although a small refundable deposit is required to hold your 
spot. Freshmen wanting further information or wishing to sign up for the trip should 
inquire at the IM Office, GSIA Room 206. Space is limited, and deadline for sign-up is 
September 27.

---------------------------------------------------

Living together with someone for the first time can be an “educational” experience.And living with a long distance company isn’t any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you’re used to getting from AT&T.For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts. With some others, voice quality may vary.But when you choose AT&T, there won’t be any surprises when you move in. You’ll get the
same high-quality, trouble-free service you’re used to.With calls that sound as close as next door. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate—so you can talk during the times you can relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. Operator assistance and collect calling.So when you’re asked to choose a long dis­tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether you’re into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on.
Reach out and touch someone!
=ATS,T
» The right choice.
Choosing a Chosi distance 
company is a lot like choosing 
a roommate.
It’s better to know what they’re 
like before you move in.
C 1985 ATaT C ommurMcattons

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
In the Spotlight
By DEEPAK GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
An afternoon with Mr. Robert Choate is 
not something everyone wants to know 
about. Probably, many do not know who he 
is. For the ignorant, Choate is Director of 
University Dining Service.
Choate came to CMU in May 1982. UDS 
had four major problems when he arrived: 
financial situation, quality of food, sanita­
tion and old equipment, and the morale of 
employees.
Since 1980, when the Marriott Corpora­
tion was put in charge of the university’s food 
service, a change has come about in the 
UDS. Various improvements were planned 
at the time and programs to improve 
employee morale and give them better train­
ing facilities were intiated. Equipment was 
updated and most importantly, an open 
door policy was adopted. Emphasis was plac­
ed upon improving whatever could be im­
proved. This ‘enlightened’ policy has paid 
dividends, evident from the fact that 25 
more people are eating at UDS facilites to­
day, when compared to figures from five 
years ago.
Today UDS is in perfect health financial­
ly. This year it has a budget of $5 million! 
(Why doesn’t More Pizza have any better piz­
zas than Domino’s?) $1.5 million goes to 
payroll and benefits, $2.1 million are spent 
on food(PhewII) and the rest on china, 
maintenance etc., not to forget the amount
which goes in replacing ‘lost’ and ‘borrow­
ed’ china and silverware.
To achieve their goals, UDS plans are 
underway to further improve facilities. One 
might find a comment table soon at one of 
the UDS facilities. There is a new salad bar 
coming up in Kiltie; Kiltie’s decor is chang­
ing. There is going to be more greenery sur-Kurt Vonnegut
rounding you so that the atmosphere is more 
conducive to eating. Probably noise deflec­
tors will be installed this year or next year. 
The traditional food festivals will be held 
again this year. Coming up: Festival of 
Salads, Night in the Orient, Dog Mania(Hot 
Dogs, not dog racing), Evening in Japan and 
many more.
According to Bob Choate, in a study con­
ducted among schools in the same ‘class’ as 
CMU, UDS was found to be one of the least 
expensive and most flexible dining services.
UDS is not perfect. We all have some 
gripes, some complaint against it. Don’t live 
with it. Go tell them. If you have a sugges­
tion give it to them.
¦ CMU
of Vonnegut’s more recent works, such as 
Palm Sunday, have turned from the semi- 
science fiction novel to different approaches 
and themes encorporating episodes of self­
interviews and family history.
One of Vonnegut’s favorite themes is the 
dehumanizing of modem institutions, par­
ticularly obvious in Cat’s Cradle, which deals 
largely with American atomic physicists, and 
Slaughterhouse Five, a novel based partial­
ly upon Vonnegut’s own experiences in 
World War II Germany.
It is obvious that Vonnegut has a wide 
range of interesting experiences and outstan­
ding ideas to make use of a lecture. But 
whatever the topic of October lecture, it 
should be a worthwhile experience for hard­
core Vonnegut fans, as well as the 
uninitiated.
A Literary Legend comes to
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
The times are precious few that we as a 
student body have the opportunity to in­
teract with someone as well-known and 
widely respected as Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. The 
62-year-old author will give a lecture at 
CMU on October 23 at eight p.m. in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
Lecture: 
October 23 
8:00 p.m.
Vonnegut, born on November 11, 1922 in 
Indianapolis, Indiana, published his first
novel Player Piano in 1952. He currently has 
fifteen books in print in the United States. 
His works include: Slaughterhouse Five, Cat’s 
Cradle, Breakfast of Champions and 
Slapstick.
Throughout the fifties, sixties, and seven­
ties, Vonnegut made his impact in the 
literary world through contemporary themes 
and a uniqueness of style. It is this style 
which is probably the most elusive quality 
of Vonnegut’s works; it envelopes the fan­
tastic and the tragicomic, the absurd and 
the unpleasant to leave the reader feeling 
somewhat uncomfortable with the world in 
which he finds himself.
Books such as Slaughterhouse Five and 
Cat’s Cradle granted Vonnegut a significant 
cult following in the sixties, at least a part 
of which has lasted until the present. Some
CMU's Industrial Design Department gets noticed
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Feature Editor
CMU’s industrial design department has 
been keeping a relatively low profile. In fact 
many students have no idea what industrial 
designers do.
Doug Donaldson, a senior majoring in in­
dustrial design (I.D.), says that industrial 
designers give form to products. In other 
words, they make products that look nice, 
are efficient to produce, and are easy to use.
Upon graduation, industrial designers can 
either work for corporations which produce 
one product such as IBM, or for consulting 
firms that work for many different com­
panies and produce an array of products.
Therefore, in order to prepare future in­
dustrial designers for the work force, 
students are required to take studio courses 
where they may be asked to design a pro­
duct from scratch or improve an existing 
product that has problems. In both cases 
there are many stages a product must go 
through before it can be used. For instance, 
when given a product to improve, a student 
must first analyze its good and bad points. 
Next, he makes a series of sketches — 
followed by a mock-up which is a physical 
representation of the product done in card­
board. Afterwards, the mock-up is tested 
and turned into an actual working model 
called a prototype which is made out of 
wood. In addition, blueprints are drawn, 
slides are taken, final drawings and sketches 
are made, and an oral presentation is given. 
Students are also required to submit a writ­
ten report along with their project. 
Therefore, it is obvious that both visual and 
written communication are stressed.
Often industrial designers are asked what 
is the difference between I.D. and engineer­
ing. Doug says the the basic distinction bet­
ween the two is that an engineer primarily 
concentrates on how a product will function, 
whereas an industrial designer goes deeper 
into the human aspect of a design, catering 
to the publics desires, taking into account 
not only how a product will function, but
how well it works with people, how easy it 
is to use, how cheap it is to make, and how 
good it looks physically.
Since freshman year, Doug and his 
classmates have designed a series of products 
including: a hand tool, a blood presure 
monitor, an interior design exhibit, a com­
puter usage project, a control panel, a cen­
trifuge, and a chair. Some common products 
of mass production include electronic 
devices such as T.V.’s and radios, consumer 
goods such as furniture and sports equip­
ment, industrial machinery such as Xerox 
machines and forklifts, and transportation 
products such as autos and trains. From the 
products listed, it is clear that the industrial 
designers at CMU are, indeed, concentrating 
on projects that will have practical uses in 
society.
Last year, General Electric sponsored a 
project for industrial designers with prizes 
up to $5,000. The idea of the project was 
to promote G.E..’s image as the world’s largest 
manufacturer of plastics, since most people 
associate G.E. with lightbulbs. It was up to 
the students to design products that used 
G.E.’s plastics, in order to stimulate in­
novative ideas that would attract other com­
panies and inspire the use of G.E.’s plastics. 
The project was specifically oriented to pro­
duce a food-related product that showed off 
some of the the qualities of G.E.’s plastics, 
such as strength, heat-resistance, light 
weight, and the plastics’ overall superiority 
to other plastics on the market.
Doug Donaldson tied for first place with 
his design of an all-plastic food cooker that 
was made entirely of heat resistant plastic, 
unique because it had no metal parts. Also 
tying for first place was Dave Kusuma, who 
designed a light-weight airline serving 
system, suspended from a ceiling track. 
Doug and Dave split the $5,000 grand prize. 
CMU had two other winners in the contest— 
in third place, Craig Janik, whose food 
preservation system was acclaimed for its 
ability to use nitrogen instead of oxgen for 
food preservation, thereby eliminating the
designer.
need for using other preservatives and in­
creasing the storage life of food. And, Sam 
Montague, in fifth place, for a cooker and 
cooler combination that stores a portable 
cooler beneath a cooking grill unit. Out of 
ten winners, CMU had four—and the com­
petition was with four other schools:
and Humber College of Canada. Clearly 
CMU’s I.D. department has been turning 
out a group of talented industrial designers
who deserve to be recognized and 
congratulated.
Senior industrial designers are currently 
working on a semester-long project that will
Syracuse, Pratt, Philadelphia College of Art, be on display in the Spring.Speaking with Bob Choate of UDS

---------------------------------------------------

«te«v
Page 8—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
Scotland Yard's opening set for November
By KATHY STREIFF
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotland Yard, the $152,000 sophisticated 
coffee house, is due to open in November.
The non-profit project, funded by Stu­
dent Affairs, Student Activities, President 
Cyert and the class of ’85, is hoping to 
become self-supportive by next year. 
Organizers are trying to reach this goal 
through recognition from the Student 
Senate.
Under the direction of president Cliff 
Sharpies, and headed by the vice-presidents 
of the project, each of five committees is 
organizing people to keep Scotland Yard on 
schedule. With its construction on target to 
be finsihed by the end of October, the head 
committee is aiming to open Scotland Yard 
before November 15th. Various themes and 
tentative hours are being set for the debut. 
Tentative hours are Thursday, Friday, and 
Saturday, from seven p.m. until two a.m.
Erik Horn and Eric Rocher are in charge 
of the Finance and Management commit­
tees, respectively. Management will be hir­
ing an adult manager, hopefully close to the 
age of a college student, to be in charge dur- 
ing most of the opening hours. In addition, 
student managers will be hired to supervise 
various tasks.
Bruce Steiger’s committee, Procurement
and Design, will handle budget development 
for necessary utensils, stereo equipment, and 
possibly a wide-screen t.v. which will broad­
cast MTV. The committee is also looking to 
collect CMU memorabilia to decorate the 
club.
The entertainment committee, headed by 
Maria Cousineau, is planning on supplying 
the club with a variety of talents. Talents will 
include CFA productions, Scotch and Soda 
productions, music, bands, and basically any 
talented student who wishes to audition to 
perform. Cousineau is also trying to organize 
theme nights that will get the crowd more 
involved.
J. Smith, the committee head for food 
organiztion, also plans on having theme 
nights. His committee is looking for people 
interested in food and drink service. Since 
there is no alcohol being served, mock drinks 
are being looked into as a possible substitute. 
Sandwiches and ice cream are going to be 
the first two menu toppers.
Finally, the publicity and marketing com­
mittee, under the direction of Tina Hatchl, 
is looking for students interested in helping 
her plan things that students want.
Anyone with questions or wanting any in­
formation should call Student Affairs for 
committee meeting dates and times.
People watching on PAT
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Contributing Editor
There never seems to be an end to the 
complaints surrounding public transporta­
tion (i.e., PAT buses). If it’s not rising costs, 
it’s mismanagement. Well, these problems 
need not bother us. Here are some sugges­
tions for the mass transit users to take your 
mind off pains and boredom.
The most obvious solution is to do 
homework. There is an endless wealth of 
work in those textbooks of yours. Besides,
you might as well do it on a bus. Who does 
work at home anyway?
The next most obvious solution is to read 
a book. What do you mean there aren’t any 
books you want to read? There are classics, 
plays, dramas, comedies, etc. If all else fails, 
pretend to be reading a copy of War and 
Peace . Other riders will think you’re men­
tally superior.
Then, there’s my favorite past time — 
watch the other riders. This has to be the
best entertainment in the Tri-State area. The 
bus driver, if you’re lucky, will be grouchy. 
That means he or she will consistantly shut 
the doors on the last person boarding. And 
there’s nothing like seeing a little old lady 
with two shopping bags dodging the doors.
Also on the bus, inevitably, there will be 
a bitchy mother and her two wild children. 
Those kids make the animals in the zoo look 
tame. And when mom yells for them to sit 
still, you can’t help but obey her.
However, here’s the ultimate solution — 
slip on the headphones to your Walkman, 
turn up the volume, don a pair of attitude 
glasses, and tune out the world. You won’t 
have to do work or put up with the 
undesirables of Pittsburgh.
Now, these are only a few ways to pass the 
time on a bus. You may have your own form 
of entertainment, but if not, you now have 
a helping hand. Besides, I hate to ride the 
bus and look at a bunch of zombies.
C-BOOK CORRECTION FORM
RS TDn omSNiarToNm Nm ENAi Ous SNia pre omvNiinvT Ni 
oS ENAi rttinee Dre vDrmYntc rmt ENA pNAft foln TDn 
vNiinvT omSNiarToNm hiomTnt om TDn BudNNlc Soff NAT 
TDoe SNiac rmt inTAim oT TN TDn : IDo M arofCNZ rT TDn 
gloCN RmSNiarToNm snelP
Nome. 
Major. 
Year_
Local Address 
Phone_____________
Permanent Address
Womens 
Health Services.
FREE PREGNANCY TESTINGOakland—Rm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave. Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT. Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Street _
CityState
College (if student) ___________________Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit
Now YOU can have two of cha noat recognized and accaptad 
cradle carda lo tha world...VISA® and Haatercardg) credit
carda___"In your naaa" EVEN If YOU ARI NEW IM CREDIT ox
HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEPOREI
VISA* and MaaterCardjp tha 
cradlt carda you daaarva and naad for * ID * BOOtCS 
• DEPARTMENT STORES • TUITlO* • ENTERTAINMENT 
• OtEtUiENCY CASH * TICKETS • RESTAURANTS 
* HOTELS b HOTELS * CAS * CAR RENTALS * REPAIRS 
* AMD TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING I Thla la tha cradlt card information kit etudentw have 
baen reading about In publicatlona fro« coaat to 
coaat and lncludaa SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS 
for HaatarCard 6 Vlaa aa wall aa other national 
charge carda. Approval ebeolutely guaranteed ao 
Murry....fill out thla card coday.... 
Your cradle carda ara waleingI
CREDITGETTER,BOX 291584, DAVIE,FL 33329YES! I want VIS^MasterCard^credit 
cards. Enclosed find $15 which is 100X 
refundable If not approved immediately
NAME
ADORE SS
CITYSTATE ZIP
PHONESOC SECURITY •
SIGNATURE

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Pittsburgh Symphony opens new season
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
On Friday, the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra played the first concert of its 
1985-86 season. With a packed house in at­
tendance, the symphony began its fifty-ninth 
year with the melodic first movement of 
Beethoven’s Symphony No. 6 and ended the 
evening with the powerful last notes of 
Ravel’s Bolero.
Opening the concert with Beethoven’s 
Symphony No. 6 (Pastorale), conductor 
Christoph Eschenbach set a very relaxed 
tone for the first half of the concert. Writ­
ten in 1808, the Pastorale Sym­
phony describes the beautiful countryside 
which surrounded Beethoven at his home in 
Bonn. While taking long walks through the 
wilderness, Beethoven was taken aback by 
the shear beauty of nature. Beethoven com­
mented in his diary that, “In the forest, I 
am transfigured. Happy everything in the 
forest. Every tree speaks through Thee. My 
Lord, what magnificance.” The result of this 
incredible love affair with nature was the 
Pastorale Symphony.
The first movement, titled “Awakening of 
Joyful Feelings on Arrival in the Country,” 
moves with a lyrical and brisk pace. The 
violin section presented the principal theme 
with a graceful brightness. Once the theme 
gained intensity with the introduction of the 
rest of the orchestra, Eschenbach quickly 
showed that he was going to utilize the full 
range of the piece. Calling upon the incredi­
ble balance of the orchestra, Eschenbach 
easily accomplished this goal. Throughout 
the entire first movement the playful 
melodies filled Heinz Hall with soothing and 
pleasant images.
The second movement “¿cene by the 
Brook’,’ continues the melodic pattern 
established in the first movement, but in a 
slower and softer tone. The string section is 
featured through the movement, amid 
musical images of “a flowering stream.” The 
harmonic playing of the strings coupled with 
some delightful interludes by the oboe and 
flute, added to a peaceful setting that the 
piece exemplifies. Now that all of the sec­
tions of the orchestra have been introduc­
ed, it is apparent that one is listening to 
world class orchestra with phenomenal 
balance and depth.
The third movement, “Merry Gathering 
of Country Folk,” is the most exciting seg­
ment of the entire work. Filled with ex­
uberant passages of dance rhythms, the at­
mosphere shifts to a more up-beat feeling. 
Here, the wind section gets an opportunity 
to open up. While the oboe presents a cat­
chy melody, the bassoon intentionally plays 
like a novice, and soon the whole wind sec­
tion joins in. The orchestra reaches its 
highest point and plays brilliantly with force 
and style.
Playing right through to the fourth move­
ment, “Tempest Storm,” the piece maintains 
this level of intensity. The original posture 
of the first movement was subtly, 
acheived as the piece moved into the final 
movement, “Shepherd’s Hymn.” The 
Pastorale finally concluded with the basic 
theme from the beginning.
The second half of the concert differed 
drastically from the first in two respects: 
first, the two selections were forceful and se­
cond, Eschenbach really opened up and 
conducted with force and animation. The 
first selection was Maurice Ravel’s “La Valse,” 
which is a piece of great splendor and plain 
fun. The work turned out to be a showcase 
for Eschenbach’s emotional conducting, 
which not only pleased the eye, but also 
complemented the greatness of the work. 
Although Ravel initially inteded “La Valse” 
to be performed with dance—“a 
choreographic poem” as Ravel refers to it, 
Eschenbach’s sweeping motions are an am­
ple substitute. The performance ended with 
a stirring playing of Ravel’s most famous 
work, Bolero. The repetitive patterns and in­
creasing dynamics are now immortalized by 
the popularity of this piece. However, the or­
chestra still found a way to give a very good 
and slightly different rendition of this piece, 
further testimony of the world-class status 
of this orchestra.
Lorin Maazel is the Music Consultant of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Student artwork shown at Forbes Gallery
By KATE BONELLO
Tartan Staffwriter
This week’s show at the Forbes Gallery 
features the work of two widely differing ar­
tists. Carolyn Turner, a senior art major, 
specializes in private and personal expres­
sion; George Thome’ Matisz, a graduate stu­
dent in the School of Urban and Public Af­
fairs, brings a more public consciousness to 
his work. Be that as it may, they are brought 
together and are opening their show this 
evening 7 to 9 PM. Refreshments will be 
served.
Ms. Turner is showing six untitled pain­
tings and a series of salt-fried ceramic pieces
this week. Her ceramics are from a time 
when she was attending Chatham College, 
when she admits that “I just wanted to get 
out as many pieces as possible.” Her pain­
tings flirt with primitivism and abstract ex­
pressionism, using angrily bright colors and 
¿very thick impasto. She says that 
i undergraduates are continually receiving 
“loads of information, a washing-machine 
load, ” and that it was not a time for her 
to develop a central idea/ideology behind 
her artwork. If anything, she says that she 
concentrates upon the concerns of the in­
dividual artist, as opposed to the viewer of 
the art.
Laserium: Led Zeppelin in the Beginning
By ANTHONY A. DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Since last semester the Buhl Science 
center has brought Pittsburgh Pink Floyd’s 
Dark Side of the Moon through the unique 
art of Laserium. Now we have Led Zeppelin 
In The Beginning, a collection of over a 
dozen songs from the band’s first four 
albums.
For those who might not be familiar with 
Laserium, it is a duel-media art form shown 
in a large planetarium, blending powerful 
music with a dazzling presentation of laser 
light. Anyone who might think of lasers as 
things that belong in old Flash Gordon 
serials hasn’t seen a Laserium show. The ef­
fects range from sharp patterns to swirling 
fields, but all are created by a one-watt kryp­
ton gas laser, whose pure, brilliant color sur­
pass in clarity any material medium.
But don’t let all this technology fool you 
into thinking that Laserium is merely a 
repititious computer playback. Each perfor­
mance features laserist Jon Hanson, who 
controls the whole show, making each show 
personal and unique. Even though the lasers 
and the sound are the main points of the 
show, Laserium makes use of the
planetarium’s other features, such as star 
fields, strobes, lunar landscapes, and a 
wraparound view of the lighted Pittsburgh 
skyline.
Laserium
Even if you have never seen a Laserium 
show, you have probably seen the effects. 
Remember Mork and Mindy ? The swirling 
color effect shown whenever Mork contacted 
Orson was done by Laser Images Inc. of 
California, the creators of Laserium. Unfor­
tunately for many, there are few places that 
are equipped to produce Laserium shows, 
and this show is scheduled to appear in San 
Francisco, San Diego, Tucson, St. Louis, and 
London. So if you aren’t from Pittsburgh, 
you may never get another chance to ex­
perience Laserium.
The show will feature the Zeppelin classics 
“Good Times Bad Times,” “Rock and Roll,” 
and others, but “Stairway to Heaven” is sure 
to be the climax. The seats in the 
planetarium are inclined backward to 
facilitate the viewing of the overhead dome, 
Ibut can be rather uncomfortable on your
neck if you sit in them for long periods of 
jtime. I recommend that—if the place isn’t 
crowded—you go to the clear area in the 
middle of the room and lay on the rug to 
view the show. It’s a lot more comfortable, 
and you get the best view of the dome. The ' 
people there won’t care as long as you are 
nice about it and don’t block the aisle.
There is a bus that will take you very near 
Buhl, the 54C, which can be boarded 
on the rear side of North Craig Street, right 
in front of Duranti’s and across from St. 
Paul’s Cathedral. The bus will leave you off 
within a block of Buhl, up in Allegheny 
Center.
• • •
Performances of “Led Zeppelin In The 
Beginning” are Thursday through Sunday 
evenings at 8 and 9:15 p.m., with a Satur­
day matinee at 3 p.m. I recommend the 
Saturday afternoon show, since it is generally 
less crowded. Keep in mind that for some 
reason there will be no 8 p.m. show this 
Thursday. For more info on Laserium and 
other Buhl presentations, call 321-5554.
So, what is a public affairs type of person 
doing in an art gallery? Thome’ Matisz 
counters such questions with “creative pro­
cesses in art and business can be com­
plementary, in a way. The practice of art 
should not be limited to those fields.” Matisz 
did his undergraduate work in economics at 
Wake Forest University, and while he was 
there most of his social time was spent with 
the members of the university’s artistic com­
munity; he also kept a studio space during 
his entire four years there. When he arrived 
at CMU he was disappointed to find that 
studio space is extremely limited, but “hav­
ing some drama and architecture students 
(SUPA is based in the Margaret Morrison 
Building) brings some saneness to the whole 
place.”
One of the most exciting pieces he is show­
ing is a triptych of sand-blasted glass plates 
with religious themes: Strasbourg Cathedral 
on one, palm trees on another, and the 
peacefulness of nature of the last. He is 
showing two monoprints, one a Van Gogh- 
like flower, and the other “Two Girls Cross­
ing the Danube,” a sepia transfer. Last but 
not least is a series of four painted fabric col­
lages he describes as “Fauve-ish, very bright, 
energetic, summery, and abstract.” As a 
part-time artist, he says his goal is to “Bring 
some energy back to the Pittsburgh climate.” 
We all need it!
The work of Carolyn Tumer and Thome’ 
Matisz will be on display tonight through 
Sunday. Gallery hours are 11-6 Wednesday 
through Friday, noon-5 Saturday and 
Sunday.
Random Rock
Do you remember the o Id J osie and 
the Pussycats cartoons? The theme 
song was done by Cheryl Ladd in 
1967, and was released as a single.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
Creator is pleasant—but not remarkable
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Creator i s a strange little comedy about an 
eccentric scientist who attempts to clone his 
long-dead wife. Directed by Ivan Passer and 
written by Jeremy Leven from his novel, 
Creator stars Peter O’Toole as Nobel Prize- 
winning biologist Harry Wolper.
Vincent Spano co-stars as Boris, Wolper’s 
young, gifted and sexually frustrated lab 
assistant. Wolper tears up the grad student’s 
course registration cards and enrolls him in
his impromptu course, “Introduction to the 
Big Picture (12 credits),” which in Wolper’s 
world involves leering at women, drinking 
of life and death, and sex and fertility are in­
terweaved. Boris’ father dies abruptly early 
in the film; a female character suffers symp­
toms indicative of pregnancy but are reveal­
ed to be portents of a life-threatening illness; 
and O’Toole continuously wields a large and 
unabashedly phallic cigar.
The movie maintains a brisk pace and de­
cent level of humor throughout. O’Toole is 
pleasingly offbeat; Madsen is appealing and
The Presidents Speak
To celebrate the 75th Anniversary of the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh, the past 
presidents were asked to submit a piece of 
representative work along with a statement 
about the growth of the organization dur­
ing their tenure. The result is “The 
Presidents Speak,” an exhibition currently on 
display in the AAP Gallery at the Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts featuring twenty-two 
presidents from 1948 through the present.
A variety of media are represented 
throughout the works. The president’s 
statements are not only of individual in­
terest, but offer an understanding of the 
development of art in the Pittsburgh com­
munity. It is an interesting and informatiove 
retrospective of one of Pittsburgh’s most 
respected art associations. The artists ex­
hibiting are: Carl Cochran, Sylvester Da- 
mianos, Robert Quakers, Orval Kipp, 
Eugene Kravitz, Robert Bowden, Francis 
Venardos Gialamas, Marjorie Firsching 
Shipe, Richard Beaman, Adrienne 
Heinrich, Donna Hollen-Bolmgren, Anna 
Marie Sninsky, John Winberg, Jerry Caplan, 
Charles LeClair, H. Douglas Pickering,
Joseph Fitzpatrick, Virgil Cantini, Tom 
Herr, Barbara Ford, Daniel Kuruna, and 
Joseph Calley. The official opening is set for 
September 14 from 6:00 - 9:00 p.m. and the 
exhibition will continue through October 13.
Also opening the evening of September 14 
is “Reunion,” a fun and fascinating approach 
to the celebration of the AAP’s 75th anniver­
sary. This exhibition will feature an 8^ x
11 work from each of the AAP’s 550 
members! Every AAP member is recogniz­
ed, even those that didn’t submit their work. 
“We wanted it to be like a homecoming, 
where we could all be shown together,” said 
Anna Marie Sninsky, the AAP ad­
ministrator. “The work should represent the 
artist. If that is best done by a drawing by 
his or her child, then that is what will be 
shown.”
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts is 
located at the corners of Fifth and Shady 
Avenues in Shadyside. Gallery hours are: 
Tuesday-Saturday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
and Sunday, 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. Closed to the 
public on Mondays. For more information 
call 361-0873 or 361-0455.
Hemingway turns in one of the better per­
formances of her less than scintillating film 
career. Spano is a good comedic actor, but 
he fails to be convincing in more serious 
beer and re-creating his lost wife. As Boris 
pursues the object of his desire (Virginia 
Madsen), Wolper searches for a fertile 
human egg and finds a suitable donor in the 
lovely form of Mariel Hemingway as Meli, 
a “19 year-old nymphomaniac.” Meanwhile, 
Wolper’s academic arch-rival Sidney Kullen- 
bach (David Ogden Stiers) tries to discredit 
the scientist and have him put out to 
pasture. Things are further complicated 
when Meli falls in love with Wolper.
Creator deals with a theme that was get­
ting old when James Whale filmed 
Frankenstein in 1931; namely, is the scien­
tist playing God when he tries to create life? 
Within a framework of light comedy, icons
moments. Creator is generally entertaining 
and involving until the last part of the 
movie — where things begin to fall apart. 
“You’re not creating life in here, you’re 
creating death!” screams Hemingway inex­
plicably in the backyard lab where Wolper’s 
cloned wife floats as an embryo in a large, 
bubbling fish tank. The ethical and 
philosophical issues brought up by Wolper’s 
project are only lightly touched upon, then 
discarded; the various strands of thought 
constituting the movie’s incongruous subtext 
fail to merge into anything coherent. In the 
end, wishful thinking—not science — saves 
the day in an unsatisfying resolution.
Creator is a pleasant and original com­
edy, more intelligent than most. It is rather 
less than it could have been, but if you have 
seen all the late summer movies already, you 
might not mind this one.newmusic newmusic
By DR. CALIGARI
Special to The Tartan
The debut album from Detroit deathrock 
band Gargoyle Sox As the, Master Sleeps. . ., 
was released this past year. They are current­
ly on tour, stopping in Pittsburgh at Graf­
fiti on September 20. The album combines 
fuzz guitars with even drumming and an ex­
tremely deep voice (probably mechanically 
aided). The sound is similar to The Sisters 
of Mercy and The Birthday Party. It has a 
very heavy, metal-edged, gothic feel to it. 
Especially good songs include “Pink Little 
Playhouse” (evil torture lyrics) and “Suc- 
cubus.” Highly recommended.
The latest album from Gene Loves Jezebel 
“Immigrant” has just been released. They 
started out playing at the Batcave (a scene- 
setting gothic club in England). “Im­
migrant” is good, although hot as hard­
hitting gothic as their earlier album “Pro­
mise.” It includes the very danceable “Worth 
Waiting For” plus the wonderfully droning 
“Stephen.” Nice scratchy lead vocals.
By the way, for those who don’t know, 
gothic music is generally a heavy sound with 
loads of guitars, lyrics about death, morbidi­
ty, and religion; deathrock is an extreme 
form of gothic and is one of the two major 
trends on the forefront of music. The other 
is glam. More on that next week.
• • •
On the hardcore front: an excellent new 
album from Marginal Man “Double Image” 
is extremely accessible without losing its 
edge. Also check our D.R.I.’s latest “Deal­
ing With It.” Twenty-four songs including 
the soon to be classic “I’d Rather Be Sleep­
ing.”
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
ÜebesÌJ22S
,ïf/A
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 1985—The Tartan—Page 11
Dio brings spectacular show to the Arena
By ANTHONY A. DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Ronnie James Dio has one of the best —if 
not THE best—voices in rock music. His suc­
cess in Rainbow, Black Sabbath, and now 
Dio has certainly made him one of the best- 
known vocalists of today.
Ronnig’s first measure of fame came as 
the co-founder of Rainbow, with Ritchie 
Blackmore, late of Deep Purple. Around 
1972 — 1974 Ronnie was the frontman for a 
band called Elf, who opened for Deep Pur­
ple on several American and European 
tours. Blackmore realized that the patchy 
lineup of Deep Purple at that point in their 
careers wouldn’t last, so he left Deep Pur­
ple and essentially became a member of 
Elf—although he will never admit it. With 
the arrival of Ritchie Blackmore (and depar­
ture of their old guitarist) Elf became Rit­
chie Blackmore’s Rainbow, name that 
reflects Blackmore’s well-known ego.
Ronnie’s voice on the Rainbow albums is 
strong, rich and melodic — ranging from the 
gentle “Rainbow Eyes” to the lush “Man on 
the Silver Mountain” to the growl of “Kill the 
King.” The first two albums, Ritchie 
Blackmore’s Rainbow and Long Live Rock 
and Roll remain two of the essential albums 
of the 70’s.
Within the space of a couple of albums, 
though, Blackmore pushed the other 
members of the band out until he and Dio 
were the only original members. Dio on oc­
casion will quote Blackmore as calling 
himself a “musical vampire,” reflecting Rit­
chie’s fondness for changing lineups. Dio 
eventually found himself at odds with Rit­
chie, and after the double live On Stage 
album, left the band because of differing 
musical directions. Graham Bonnet joined 
Rainbow for one album, Down to Earth,
which was still a good, strong rock album, 
but the arrival of the eunuch-like Joe Lyn 
Turner (late of Fandango) sparked Dio to 
refer to the new Rainbow as “Foreigner Jr.,” 
a certainly deserved title.
Dio then joined the ailing Black Sabbath, 
who had been sitting around for a year 
deciding whether or not Ozzy Osbourne was 
still with them. The two studio albums with 
Sabbath — Heaven and Hell and Mob 
Rules — found Ronnie’s strong, lush voice 
meshing perfectly with Tony Iommi’s 
devastating guitar work. The title track from 
Heaven and Hell became one of his best 
known songs, his voice weaving richly 
around Iommi’s epic guitar work.
After the release of the over-produced, 
over-mixed Live Evil, an album on which 
Tony Iommi accussed Ronnie of wanting to 
sound like Barry Manilow, Ronnie left the 
band to form Dio. Although the band bears 
his name, Dio is quick to stress that it is a 
band, not a solo career. To him (and me) 
a solo album is one where one person does 
all the instruments, vocals, —everything— 
on his own, ala Todd Rundgren.
The first album, Holy Diver, hit big with 
the title track and “Rainbow in the Dark,” 
two powerful songs that show both Ronnie’s 
fantastic voice and the talent of young 
guitarist Vivian Campbell. A friend of Ron­
nie’s from one incarnation of Rainbow, Jim­
my Bain, provides a firm and experienced 
bass, and backs up the band solidly on 
drums. Keyboard man Claude Schnell ap­
pears on all three Dio albums, yet he isn’t 
officially a member of the band. The second 
album, The Last in Line, solidified the 
band’s standing, and proved that this band 
wasn’t going to just drift apart.
Dio appeared at the Arena last summer 
with Twisted Sister, with an incredible stage 
show and an incredible performance.Vinnie
Appice turned in one of the best drum solos 
I have ever seen, and Vivian Campbell gain­
ed a devoted fan. Dio returns to the Arena 
this Sunday (the 22nd), in support of the 
brand new Sacred Heart album, which 
features “Hungry For Heaven,”- a song the 
band did for the Visionquest soundtrack. 
The album is so new that I haven’t been able 
to hear much of it, but what I have heard 
is less heavy than the first two albums, yet 
no less strong. This stage show promises to 
be better than ever, with a huge castle with 
a drawbridge, 400 lights, and a fire- 
breathing dragon. Rough Cutt will open, a 
band that has been compared to Ratt.
One parting thought —on the so called
phenomenon of “Devil Music.” People have 
always accused Ronnie Dio of all sorts of evil 
things, up to and including being the An­
tichrist. When asked about these people, Dio 
responds that he doesn’t pay much attention 
to them. He feels that it is good to learn 
about the darker forces of the world, but not 
to mess with them. Those who still don’t 
belive should check out Kerry Livgren’s Seeds 
of Change album. Here, on the song “The 
Mask of the Great Deceiver,” Dio appears as 
a guest vocalist. The song is clearly anti­
devil, as you will see if you listen to the 
words. Remember, it’s perfectly okay to men­
tion the devil —the Bible does it all the 
time —but don’t start worshipping him.
will be selline f'iesh cut
in Skibo Matt eï 
eve'tj Titcfaij ^30*5*30
-#-WatcU -for cUlivjervj secuicç *
Seniors K Graduate Students 
ORIENTATION MEETINGS
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS INTENDING TO USE THE SERVICES
Sp ech s,rhhr ohrtmahk ,EI ny,ahihEe uppmah ecmk dh,r kcSgyI
PLAN TO ATTEND ONE OF THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULED MEETINGS:
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1985 - 11:30 A.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1985 - ¿1:00 P.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1985 - 11:30 A.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1985 - ¿1:00 P.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
THESE SESSIONS WILL LAST 40-50 MINUTES AND GENERALLY COVER 
THE RANGE OF SERVICES OF THE OFFICE AND AN EXPLANATION OF 
FORMS AND PROCEDURES USED. TlME WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR 
QUESTIONS AND DISCUSSION.
Career Services and Placement 
Carnegie-Mellon University
£ve^jtfunc Aiice
owe^ts

---------------------------------------------------

LIKE EATING OUT? 
LOOK WHO'S MOVED IN!
At the comer of Forbes and Bouquet St. 
In Oakland.
Wait 'til you sink your teeth into a delicious Rax 
sandwich. Choose from our Big Rax™ Beef Bacon 'n 
Cheddar, Philly Beef 'n Cheese,™ Turkey Bacon Club
and more. We use only the highest quality ingredients—
100% USDA pure beef, all-white meat turkey, Grade A 
cheese, lean crisp bacon and ripe tomato.
If salad is your thing, we've got an Endless Salad™
Bar for you, with every fresh, crunchy salad ingredient 
you could ask for.
And our Great Shakes—they're the creamiest in town!
Enjoy your great-tasting Rax meal in our delightful 
Greenhouse dining room with its easy atmosphere that 
really lets you relax. No fast food clamor here. Come 
see for yourself. Find out why Pittsburgh is saying—
WHY JUST EM. WHEN YOU CAN EAT AT RAX.
« ?985 RAX Restaufant% Inc
»

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.Hensel rises to the occasion
Tartans upset Bucknell in home opener
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
CMU had travelled to Lewisburg, Penn­
sylvania to take on the Bucknell Bisons a 
year ago only to be crushed 42-7 by the Divi­
sion I-AA Bisons.
Most thought the scheduling of Bucknell 
was a big mistake. This year Bucknell made 
the trip to Tech Field, and though the Tar­
tans were hanging tough in the first half, 
they could not move the ball.
CMU 21 
_____Bucknell 10
When Joe Mollica lined up to punt for 
CMU with 3:30 remaining in the first half, 
it marked the fifth drive for the Tartans, and 
the fifth drive CMU did not have a first 
down. The score was 10-0 in Bucknell’s favor, 
and the Tartans were in danger of going 
down 17-0 at the half. Mollica got off a short 
punt. Bison punt returner, Tom Dominick 
ran up to take the kick.
It was at that point when the game turn­
ed around.
CMU’s Mike Paterchak was the first man 
down on the punt. Dominick took one step 
after catching the ball. That was all Pater­
chak allowed him. Paterchak leveled 
Dominick, who didn’t get up until a couple 
of minutes later.
The hit fired up the Tartans, who totally 
dominated the game from then on, going 
on to upset the highly favored Bison 21-10.
After Paterchak’s hit, it seemed that 
CMU finally felt that Bucknell was not in­
vincible. The Tartan defense held on four 
downs and then quarterback Mike Hensel 
went to work.
CMU’s coaching staff installed a different 
offense on the next series. Plays were run 
with Hensel rolling out to either side of the 
field led by 220-pound fullback Vic Boland. 
The offensive line kept the Bison defense off 
of Hensel, and Boland leveled several blitz­
ing Bison. With time to throw, and an open 
field to run if he desired, this diversified the 
Tartan offense and kept Bucknell guessing.
Of the eleven passes Hensel completed, 
eight were to his running backs. Tim 
Denmeade caught seven passes for 106 yards. 
The eight went to Mike Minjock for 46 yards 
and a touchdown with 1:01 left in the first 
half. CMU got their only first downs of the 
half on that drive on passes to Denmeade 
of 15 and 25 yards. CMU, after being 
outplayed for 28 minutes, trailed by just 
three points at halftime, 10 - 7.
No. 12 Victor Boland rushes through well placed blocking by No.76 Ed Gallagher.
Both defenses played well in the third 
quarter, but the Tartans rolled in the fourth. 
They got the ball with 2:45 left in the third. 
After completions of 13 yards to Denmeade 
and 20 yards to David Richards, CMU had 
a fourth-and-one on the Bucknell 18. Hensel 
sneaked behind center Mark Brado for the 
first down. He then completed another to 
Denmeade for an 11-yard gain. Denmeade 
ran six yards around right end for the 
touchdown on the next play, and the Tar­
tans took a lead they would not relinquish.
The support of the fans was a great help 
to the Tartan cause. Said one Tartan 
defender, “It psyches everybody up when the 
crowd is behind you.”
Hensel completed a 24-yard TD pass to 
Denmeade with 2:47 remaining. Joe 
Orlowski took a deflection off of Chris 
Haupt’s hand for an interception with 1:32 
remaining to lock the game.
Bucknell has players on scholarship who 
far outweighed CMU’s Division III non- 
scholorship players. But the Tartans played 
better football and played with their heads 
for the major upset. Bucknell had 12 
penalties for 100 yards; the Tartans had one 
for five. Bucknell fumbled three times, los­
ing one. CMU fumbled just once and 
recovered. The Tartans only mistake was 
Hensel’s interception when Denmeade never
turned head to look for the ball.
Though looking far ahead in the season 
is dangerous, CMU proved that they could 
beat anyone on their schedule if they play 
well. There is no telling how far this team 
can go. For now, though, they must not look
further than next week’s opponent, the John 
Carroll Blue Streaks. The game will be 
played at JCU in Cleveland starting at 2:00 
p.m., and will be broadcast exclusively by 
WRCT (88.3 FM) starting at 1:45 p.m.
The Bisons battle it out with the Tartans.
Harriers break NCAA record
photo by fcrtk Horn
Mike Nazuro goes for the extra point with a hold from Roy Teresky.
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU cross country team notched 
their 68th straight victory to take the NCAA 
record on Saturday with a convincing 15-50 
win over Bethany. CMU runners took all five 
places, scoring a cross-country “shutout.” 
CMU’s victory gave the the Division 111 
record for consectutive wins in dual meets. 
In a talk with head coach Gary Meckley, he 
commented that he believes this record is 
also a Division I NCAA record, but the Cross 
Country division on the NCAA rules and 
records committee cannot confirm this.
in the CMU win Saturday, first place was 
captured by Mark Sukcki and Pat NoU. Ap­
proximately five seconds behind the tie for 
first, there was a tie for third, between lorn 
Ford and lony Scarpeli. Completing the
CMU sweep of the first five places was Cur­
tis Meuse. Coach Meckley stated that the 
team ran in a pack the whole way. In the 
first three miles of the race, the CMU team 
pushed hard and coasted the last two miles 
of the five mile race to capture the win.
In an interview with coach Meckley, he 
felt that the CMU cross country team had 
a tough schedule this year, but still feels con­
fident that winning the conference cham­
pionship is not out of his reach. The season 
lasts until Thanksgiving, and Meckley feels 
that his team has a lot of growing left to 
do. CMU has won the conference champion­
ship six out of the last 7 years, and the last 
five yean straight.
Their next meet is Saturday, Septmeber 
21 at the Indiana Invitational.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
ARTIST
ENGINEERING
DRAFTING
SUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT 10 to 5 P-M.
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS, INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH.)
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER 
CALL 
683-3555
¦ INCORPORATIONS
¦ LANDLORD - TENANT
¦ CRIMINAL LAW - TRIAL DEFENSE
Hensel leads 
CMU victory
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Mike Hensel is coming into his own. For 
the first time, he is relieved of the pressure 
of coach Chuck Klausing’s dual offense 
system. No longer must he score on every 
drive or face replacement by the Tartan’s 
other offense, which was led by Dave Zito.
Last week against Duquesne he showed he 
could run, scrambling for 67 yards despite 
pressure from a heavy Duke rush. But 
against Bucknell, he showed he could both 
run and pass, gaining 72 yards on the 
ground and 191 in the air. Included in the 
passing yardage was a 46 yard scoring bomb 
to Mike Miniock with 1:01 left in the first 
half.
The importance of that touchdown pass 
cannot be underestimated. It put CMU to 
within 3 points of Bucknell at halftime, and 
decisively shifted the momentum of the 
game.
With the shift in momentum, the second 
half belonged to the Tartans and Hensel. On 
their opening drive, CMU had as many first 
downs as they had in the first half. Hensel 
found the perfect mix between the run and 
the pass, catching Bucknell off guard. He 
began hitting recievers Denmeade, Minjock, 
and Richards with precision. If none were 
open, he would take it himself. In fact, 
Hensel’s quarterback sneaks in the fourth 
quarter were instrumental in setting up the 
touchdown that put CMU into the lead.
It was Hensel’s running that gave his pass­
ing its potency. Although he had 72 yards 
on the ground for the game, his net yardage 
stood at -2 at halftime. But in the second 
half, his running and passing mix proved 
fatal for Bucknell. ..
After the game, CMU head coach Klaus- 
ing spoke admiringly of his junior quarter­
back. “Hensel turned in a fantastic perfor­
mance. He was a great field general just 
when we needed one.”
And how did Hensel himself feel about 
the game? “This is the best I’ve ever felt,” 
was his comment coming off the field. “I 
always knew we could beat them. This is the 
top victory of my career.”
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW 
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU.
BU0WEISER*«tNG OF BEERS*-ANMFUSEH BUSCH l#*C *ST LOUIS
Women's Volleyball plays tough in split season opener
By BOB KOCA
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU women’s volleyball team had its 
season debut Saturday in a four team match 
at Duquesne. The team lost to Duquesne 
2-1 and to Waynesburg 2-0, but defeated 
McKeesport 2-0. The team played better 
than these scores indicate. They were com­
petitive in all four games they lost, scoring 
15, 9, 12, and 9 points in these games respec­
tively. It also should be noted that it was 
CMU’s first match, though the other three 
teams had previously played this season.
Commenting on the match, coach Jane 
Fisk said the teamwork could have been bet­
ter on the attack, which she expected to be 
stronger than it was. However, she was 
pleasantly surprised by the defensive play, 
especially the blocking. She thought some 
of the plays in which the players got in each 
other’s way could be attributed to the fact 
that the team is using a new formation this 
year. Overall, she was pleased with the team’s
play, considering it was the first match. She 
noted that in the new formation (9-5-1) 
most of the setting responsibilities fall on one 
player, and that captain Marianne Smith 
handled this role wonderfully.
Coach Fisk expects the team to do well 
this season, despite being in a new, more 
competitive division. She noted that the 
team is dedicated and works hard in prac­
tice. Also on the plus side, is that of the 10 
players on the team, seven played last year. 
She is confident that the team will improve 
as the season goes on and the new forma­
tion becomes more familiar.
The Lady Tartans continue their season 
this week with games September 17 at home 
against Indiana University at 6:30 p.m. and 
September 19 home again against Califor­
nia University and Robert Morris at 6:00 
p.m. They round out the week with a 
September 21 double match against St. Vin­
cent College and LaRoche College at St. 
Vincent.
Player of the Game Mike Hensel, in his 
first year as the full time Tartan quarter­
back, threw for two touchdowns to beat 
Bucknell.

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 1985—The Tartan—Page 15
Soccer coach optimistic despite first loss
Üeb bs bhe answers fasber.Wibh bheTI'55'IL
What you need to tackle 
the higher mathematics of a 
science or engineering cur­
riculum are more functions - 
more functions than a simple 
slide-rule calculator has.
Enter the TI-.55-II, with 
112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more 
accurately with the T1-55-II, 
because its preprogrammed
to perform complex calcula­
tions - like definite integrals, 
linear regression and hyper- 
bolics - at the touch of a 
button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering 
the entire formula.
Included is the Calculator 
Decision'Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using
the TI-55-II even simpler, 
and shows you how to use all 
the power of the calculator.
Get to the answers faster. 
Let a TI-55-II
show you how.
laMcr.
Disca
rdaetopidea
Creating useful products 
and services for you.
WSS TI
Fwtonsi tss
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS' 
FACTORY OUTLET
HOWARD
JOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled 
Rooms
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwriter
Although the 1985 season got off to a very 
inauspicious start last Tuesday, that’s no in­
dication of what we have to look forward to 
from CMU Soccer this year according to the 
players and coaches.
The Tartans began the season a week ago 
with a disappointing 2-1 loss in double over­
time to University of Pittsburgh-Johnstown, 
but everyone involved with the team was 
quick to point out that one game does not 
a season make and the year ahead should 
be filled with anything but disappointment.
This year’s squad has some big shoes to 
fill after losing three outstanding seniors: 
Neil Frink, Owen Ranta and Caleb Corkery; 
losses which Head Coach Nick Gaudioso 
termed “critical.” However, nobody on the 
team is overly concerned with that. Senior 
Co-Captain Charlie Lockhead feels that 
“once the team gets used to playing together,” 
it will be a strong contender in the PAC, one 
of the top three teams, with perennial 
powerhouse Bethany and John Carroll 
University. Lockhead is “looking forward to 
the rest of the year,” as he feels that last Tues­
day the team got its “single embarassment 
out of its system.”
Gaudioso seemed to agree that all the 
team needs is some playing time together. 
With three freshmen starting this is 
understandable, but Gaudioso is quick to 
point out that “someday these three 
freshmen will be as good as those three 
(Frink, Ranta and Corkery)but not after two 
or three weeks.” It should also be noted that 
the team had no pre-season scrimmages 
either.
The team still has quite a bit of experience 
with eight starters returning, including stan­
douts such as Lockhead; junior Doug 
Anderson, who led the team in scoring last 
year with 29 points (second in PAC); senior 
Co-Captain Alex Tomlinson; senior goal­
keeper Sam Montague; and sophomore 
Alan Mayr. Gaudioso feels that the skill these 
individuals possess is one of the team’s big­
gest strengths. With them returning and the 
addition of three excellent freshmen, two of
3401 Boulevard of the Allies 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
(412) 683-6100 (800) 245-4444
Tartan Soccer players practicing on Tech Field. t0 y C y
whom played together on the same New 
Jersey State High School championship soc­
cer team, no one is too pessimistic about the 
season ahead.
Tomlinson feels that the team does have 
“a tough season coming up” and Gaudioso 
also pointed out that the team has a tougher 
schedule this year, one which includes 
Elizabethtown, PA., and Marietta, both top 
20 Division III soccer teams.
Last Tuesday, CMU got on the board first 
with a goal from Lockhead fairly early in the 
first half, but gave up the tying goal later
in the same half, which caused some pro­
blems from a morale standpoint for the 
team. “We had our heads down at halftime 
Tuesday, which is no way to approach a tie 
game,” noted Anderson. The Tartans gave 
up the winning goal in the second overtime, 
losing a game which they “dominated” ac­
cording to Gaudioso. “We missed a lot of op­
portunities in the first and second halves,” 
he added. Indeed, the statistics back him up 
on this, as the Tartans outshot their op­
ponents 19-8.
Anderer was quick to point out that “this
was only one game out of fifteen, we can’t 
let one game ruin our season. Once we get 
into it (the season) we’ll be alright. Right 
now a lot of people are upset with themselves 
but we have to take that out on the other 
teams, not ourselves.” Anderson agreed that 
the team “will definitely bounce back.” As 
Alan Mayr put it: “we have to.”
The Tartans took second place this 
weekend in the tournament at 
Elizabethtown, PA. They defeated 
Muhlenberg 2-0 on a pair of goals by 
Lockhead, the first one a penalty kick in the 
first half followed by a head-in in the second 
half to round out the scoring. On Saturday 
in the championship game, CMU spotted 
host Elizabethtown a 2-0 lead at half-time, 
going on to lose 2-1. The lone CMU goal 
came off the foot of freshman, Bob 
Stefanowicz.
The team has its first big PAC showdown 
at home this weekend against John Carroll. 
As Lockhead noted the two teams “will be 
gunning for each other.” The game will be 
played Saturday afternoon at 1:00 on Tech 
Field.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-The Tartan-September 17, 1985
By BARBARA FREESE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Camegie-Mellon Women’s Field 
Hockey team opened their season on a pro­
mising note with a 3-0 win over Lake Erie 
College. CMU dominated the game with 48 
shots on goal to Lake Erie’s one.
The lady Tartans took charge with con­
trol of the ball for 8(yof the game. Goals were 
scored by Denise Visconti, Lynne Otto and 
Maria Kozo. Offensive player Dee Nyzio also 
showed outstanding ability on the line.
Coach Jan McDowell commented that the 
team played very well considering it was the 
season opener. This year’s rookies played 
especially well. There are still a few kinks 
to be worked out however. From the poten­
tial shown in the first game, the team should 
be in for an exciting season.
Their next game will be played away at » T , ^ _ .,& v 7 1 A Lady 1 artan out maneuvers her opponent.Washington & Jefferson on September 19.
Now, the slightly delayed, NFC Predictions
in football (AFC West is first).
The defense is solid, led by linebacker E.J. 
Junior and defensive end Curtis Greer. And 
don’t forget running back Ottis Anderson, 
or he’ll burn. you. He has more yards at his 
age than anyone else in football history. 
Dallas Cowboys—With Gary Hogeboom’s 
performance on Sunday against Detroit, the 
quarterback controversy will continue. As 
long as it does, the Cowboys will be erratic. 
In this division, they can’t afford it. 
Washington Redskin»—-They have a strong 
offense* but the defense is not playing well 
despite good personnel. I don’t think they 
have the integrity to finish higher than this. 
Philadelphia Eagles—-They’re going with a 
rookie quarterback, and most of the defense 
in holding out. Forget ’em.
Central' Division
Chicago Bears—If anyone is going to stop 
the 49ers from returning to the Super Bowl, 
it will be the Bears. They have a punishing 
defense led by linebacker Mike Singletary 
and an offense that is diverse enough that 
Walter “Sweetness” Payton will have room to 
run. Jim McMahon must stay healthy. 
Green Bay Packers—-The Packers do not 
miss John Jefferson, but a running game led 
by Gerry Ellis will keep this team from mak­
ing the playoffs.
Detroit Lions—Billy Sims will help, but for 
now a strong pass rush and a decent offense 
that has been opened up by new coach Daryl 
Rogers will keep this team respectable.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers—A good young 
team with a great back in James Wilder, but 
without Lee Roy Selmon their defense has 
a big hole.
Poor Steve DeBerg. He has always been 
a good quarterback, but he can never stick •* 
with a team. He had his job taken in San 
Francisco by a kid named Joe Montana, in 
Denver by a rookie named John Elway and 
now Tampa Bay just picked up Steve Young.
Bye bye, Steve DeBerg.
Minnesota Vikings—I don’t care if they 
beat the 49ers. Their leading rusher last year 
was Alfred Anderson. Who? Who cares.
Western Division
San Francisco 49ers—Complacency may be 
hurting this team, but Bill Walsh will turn 
it around, and Joe Montana will lead theip^ 
into Super Bowl XX.
Los Angeles Rams—Should make the 
playoffs. Are 2-0 without Eric Dickerson, 
not telling what they will do with him. Dieter 
Brock, the quarterback import from 
Canada, will give them the long range pass 
attack that John Robinson likes. Could 
challenge the 49ers.
Atlanta Falcons and New Orleans 
Saints—-They will battle it out for third. 
Atlanta needs William Andrews back, and * * 
he won’t be back. Bum Phillips needs to find 
a quarterback. Now. He’s got three, he’s got 
three, he’s got to choose one. At least choose 
two, but two, but three. Bobby Hebert was 
a waste of money.
Then again, I may be wrong.
FOR COMPL€T€
INFORMATION
¡j£DYjWeNU€ 
ati FORB€S|[521:03111
AFTtRSQUIRREL HILL
MOD€RNl DANCe I CLASS€S
Women'sField Hockey team beats Lake Erie
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Well, after one week, I’m doing pretty well 
in the AFC, give or take a bunch of fish from 
Miami. The Steelers romped, the Seahawks 
won, the Chiefs are surprising, and the Jets 
were pretty bad. I’ve got a one week advan­
tage on the National Conference, so here we 
g°-
Eastern Division
New York Giants—Last year the Giants
came within a game of winning the division. 
They have added a running game this year, 
with rookie George Adams and USFL 
veteran maurice Carthon. Phil Simms must 
stay healthy, and the Lawrence Taylor 
defense must play up to their capabilities, 
but this is a young team with a young coach 
and a GM named Young, and they could go 
a long way.
St. Louis Cardinals—An explosive offense 
lead by Neil Lomax and Roy Green leads 
this team in what is the second best division
MODÇRHI DANC€ ICLASS€S

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 1985—The Tartan—Page 17
Penguins try 
to improve 
performance
By RICK DuVALL
Tàrtan Staffwriter
“Lemieux gets the puck at the top of the 
circle and moves into the slot. He winds and 
^shoots!! He scores!!!” That call flooded the 
air waves during the past season. When 
Penguins headed to their respective homes 
for the summer layoff, it was not known 
whether this would be heard again in the 
Pittsburgh area.
The word was leaked last season that 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, wanted to 
move the team to their new 17,000 seat 
arena. This shook some locals with the 
thought that they may not have a hockey 
team in the near future. As yet, the team 
has made traveling plans but has threaten­
ed to leave if attendance doesn’t pick up con­
siderably. At press time, the pre-season ticket 
sales have already surpassed the total atten­
dance from last season (404,000).
The Penguins are making a very strong 
effort to make themselves an attractive 
hockey team. Last year’s big draw, Mario 
Lemieux, had a tremendously rocky season. 
He lead the team in scoring. He was also 
named M.V.P. of the N.H.L. All-Star game. 
They have signed their first round draft 
choice Craig Simpson. While they lost the 
services of Warren Young to Detroit (via free 
agency) they have acquired Terry Ruskowski 
from the Los Angeles Kings. The other roster 
changes, mostly releases, show that Eddie 
Johnston (Penguin G.M.) is really trying to 
put together a “winning” hockey team.
These personnel moves will add some age 
to what was a very young team. Last year 
they appeared to fold when things got tough. 
Many attribute this to the fact that there was 
very little stretch experience. Ruskowski and 
Gilles Melcche, Goaltender acquired from 
Edmonton last week, should be able to fill 
that gap.
Training camp opens this week and 
should be an indication of the future of Pitt­
sburgh hockey. I personally hope they can 
put together a good show and stay in town 
for years to come. The city of Pittsburgh, 
the number one city in the nation, deserves 
a professional hockey team.
CMU Baseball has new beginning
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
For the Camegie-Mellon baseball club, 
the word shocking is an understatement. It 
isn’t enough that they opened the season by 
defeating Penn State - McKeesport by a score 
of 4-2. The Tartans rebounded off a 7-4 loss 
to Boyce Community College by slaughter­
ing Mount Aloyius in a doubleheader by a 
total score of 40-0.
The three wins that the club racked up 
in the opening week of the season almost 
equaled the total number of wins the 
Tartans had in both fall and spring competi­
tion last year.
Defense was the key to CMU’s win over 
Penn State. Second baseman John Chang 
made a skillful over-the-shoulder catch, 
preventing runners from first and second 
from advancing. Chang also helped out with 
his bat, going three for four with a walk. 
Freshman Perry Pierce also made a run- 
saving play when he speared a line drive at 
his third base position. First baseman Steve 
Orlando also shined defensively as he end­
ed the game with a diving stab.
Centerfielder Bill Yankovich had the game 
winning RBI as he slashed a triple that 
brought John Chang into score. Veteran
Burgandy started the game and lasted four 
innings. He was relieved by Dan Bly, a 
freshman, and Dom Colangelo, who went 
the final 1% innings to record the save.
Mount Aloyius was the site of the Tartans’ 
greatest offensive explosion in recent 
memory. What makes the scores of 24-0 and 
16-0 incredible is that both games were on­
ly seven innings long, normal practice for 
a doubleheader CMU also got excellent pit­
ching as Dan Bly hurled 3 innings in the first 
game and faced only the minimum 9 men, 
although he was helped by catcher Rick 
DuVall, who ended each of the first two in­
nings by throwing a runner out at second 
base. John Spanos, returning from injury, 
coasted the last 6 innings. In the second 
game, freshman John Simon threw an ex­
cellent three innings
The baseball club plays its next two games 
on the road, Tuesday at Butler Community 
College and Thursday at LaRoche.
It’s a deal that has no equal, for a calculator that has 
no equal.
Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 
12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any 
other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most 
popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro­
grams ever written for the HP-41.
You get comprehensive advanced matrix math func­
tions, roots of equations and polynomials, integrations, 
base conversion and logic functions, and time value of 
money functions.
Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you 
can quickly access just a portion of a program, or trans­
fer that section to your own program.
And it’s even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays 
and reduces the number of prompts.
In short, you get everything it’s going to take to help 
you make the grade in everything from Linear Algebra 
to Physics to Electronics to Statics and Dynamics.
The HP-41 is a deal all its own. Its operating 
system is so advanced, it doesn’t need an “equals 
key. Little wonder it’s preferred by more engineers 
than any other calculator.
This is a limited time offer. Call (800) FOR- 
HPPC. Ask for Dept. 658B. Well instantly give 
you the name of a dealer who has no equal.
Do it now. The phone call is free.
But our new module won’t be for long.Thai HEWLETTmL'fim Packard
I’m a student who has no equal. Here’s my 
proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please 
send me my free software module.
PG12511
*U.S. suggested list price
Get our new $49* software module 
when you buy an HP-41.
Phone Number
HP-41 Serial Number
Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: 
Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail 
Projects/M-M. P.O. Bo* 10598,
Portland, Oregon 97209
Offer not redeemable at HP dealer. HP-41 mutt be purchased 
between 8/15/85 and ll/IS/85. Envelopes must be postmarked 
by 12/31/85. Good only in U.S.A. Void where prohibited, taxed 
or restricted by law HP employee purchases not eligible Allow 
6-8 weeks for delivery.
Address
State
Name

---------------------------------------------------

EfStorial.
Frats overlooked
The Greek System is very important to life at 
CMU. The largest minority on campus, the Greek 
system, good or bad, is the center of social life at 
CMU. Without the Greeks, Spring Carnival, 
Homecoming, and obviously Greek Sing would be 
a farce.
The Greek System is also responsible for the ma­
jor part of Alumni donations to CMU, donations 
that the administration needs to keep costs from ris­
ing to an even higher level. Yet the Greek system 
is seen by the administration as an embarrassment. 
While no one has seriously proposed the abolition 
of the Greek system, recent events and future plan­
ning imply that the Greeks are being overlooked by 
the CMU administration.
The eviction of Zeta Beta Tau brothers from their 
house last year is the most ready example. Couldn’t 
the brothers have been allowed' to remain in their 
home until the year was over? The house has now 
been made a freshman dorm. Only for a year, says 
Braden Walter. Originally, it was to be for just one 
semester, but the administration wouldn’t dream of 
making anyone move during the middle of the year.
Almost as disturbing is the handling of the cur­
rent controversy involving residents of Devon Road, 
the street running alongside Beta Theta Pi and 
behind the Fraternity Quadrangle. During the sum­
mer, these residents presented to the administration 
a complaint about loud outdoor music emanating 
from the fraternities. This complaint was not 
without basis, but the action taken was wrong. Presi­
dent Cyert issued a total ban on all amplified out­
door music at fraternities without out consulting 
anyone in the Greek system. Shouldn’t the Inter- 
Fraternity Council have been involved in the original 
decision-making process? Shouldn’t Greek Advisor 
Jay Carson have been granted the same courtesy? 
In addition, the Greeks were not consulted about 
a plan which would dictate which nights would be 
deemed “wet” or “dry” during fall rush. Only when 
the Greeks returned to campus this fall was the plan 
revised to include student input. Again, shouldn’t 
the IFC ot the CFP have been consulted in the 
original decision before the administration set any 
policy?
Social life is very important here at CMU. With 
the day-to-day pressures we as students must face, 
a break every once in a while is needed. Without 
the Greek system, social life on this campus would 
decline drastically. One non-Greek student pointed 
out that good or bad, there is very little social life 
on the CMU campus without the fraternities.
These events may pose little short-term threat to 
Greek life, but they may be indicative of long-term 
administration policy. What if each time a Greek 
organization runs afoul of the regulations it loses 
its house, and is not replaced? One student thinks 
that when he returns as an alumnus in twenty years, 
the Greek system will only be a memory. This opi­
nion is reinforced when one looks at the Carnegie- 
Mellon University Master Plan, a proposal put 
together by the Architectural Division of CRS Sir- 
rine. The plan depicts “the goals, planning prin­
ciples, and planning concepts” for the CMU cam­
pus. The long-term proposal to be realized within 
thirty years, shows a building labelled “student hous­
ing” where Alpha Tau Omega, Sigma Alpha Ep­
silon, and the 5017 Forbes building now stand. In 
the breakdown of what is going to be built, the alter­
nate location for these houses is not mentioned.
Perhaps this was not intended. Perhaps the frater­
nities were just overlooked in the planning. But 
when a group so vital to the student life at CMU 
is completely overlooked, when such a group is not 
even consulted about decisions concerning it and 
concerning others, the administration is making a 
mistake.
Letters
Editor:
What is art? This is a very 
debatable question because it is 
not a single faceted area. Art 
reflects many things--whether it 
be a Michaelangelo sculpture in 
Florence or a flower in the back 
yard. Art goes beyond the tangi­
ble paintings of everyday living. 
It is what the individual sees it as 
being--not just something the art 
critics and connoisseurs see it as 
being.
Mr. Michael Hoff seems to 
have an ignorant view of art as a 
concept. In his article last issue he 
put forth the theory that if he and
Hoff's column raises 
questions about CMU art
anybody he knows doesn’t like it, 
it’s not tangible art and therefore 
logically should be removed. 
While I realize everyone deserves 
his/her say and opinion, Mr. Hoff 
seems to limit his granting of the 
same rights. Being a “next-to-no- 
one,” I like these works he criticiz­
ed with his intelligent statement 
which describes the sculpture as 
“a reject from a playground for 
disturbed children.” The argu­
ment that the campus sculpture 
should be removed because he 
and his non-“next-to-no-ones” 
cannot appreciate them is 
blatantly unjustified and
impulsive.
As for the enigma of their 
meanings, it is only difficult to 
decifer art by over-scrutinizing it 
or by taking it for granted. Bas­
ed on Mr. Hoffs limited perspec­
tive, I feel he is not qualified to 
criticize the permanent and tem­
porary campus sculptures, or to 
appreciate the time, planning, 
and skills involved in art of all 
forms from outdoor sculpture to 
writing.
Sincerely, 
Alison C. Safford
Reader responds to column
Editor:
I would like to respond to that 
intelligent and thought-provoking 
article in last week’s Tartan, that 
dealt with the outdoor sculpture 
at CMU. What Mr. Hoff said in 
his article, in essence, was that he 
did not understand the sculpture 
on campus. He said that it was 
not “artistic,” that it took no 
’’talent” to produce, and therefore 
should not be displayed. He also 
assumed that “most people” on 
campus felt the same way he did. 
I beg to differ.
Everyone looks at art in a dif­
ferent way. Someone might look 
at the sculpture in front of Wean 
Hall and see color in an otherwise
dreary setting. Another person 
may see it as a structure which 
echoes the geometry and precision 
of Wean Hall and what goes on 
inside. Someone else may see a re­
ject from a playground for 
disturbed children. I’m saying 
that everyone should find a wor­
thwhile meaning in this piece, for 
I myself have a hard time dealing 
with it aesthetically. I am saying 
that people should take the time 
to really look at a piece of art, and 
think about it, not for what it 
looks like, but for what it is. On­
ly then can they pass judgement 
on its worth. If then they don’t 
like it, fine; at least they gave it 
some thought.
As for the temporary installa­
tions on campus, they are not only 
worthwhile, but necesssary. I’m 
sure that anyone who looked for 
more than ten seconds at the cir­
cle of figures in the snow last year, 
and actually thought about them, 
saw much more than just a circle 
of figures in the snow.
Talent and creativity will only 
show on the surface of art; idea 
and concept lie deeper, and must 
be looked for. If found, they can 
be priceless. We don’t need less 
art on campus--we need more.
Most sincerely, 
John Lechner 
Art, ’88
Student Gov't, president defines office
by Karen Lee
Many times I have been asked 
what a Student Government 
President does? To clear up any 
confusion, as President of Student 
Government, I represent all stu­
dent paying the ac- 
tivities fee in an “of-
ficial” capacity. A 
prime example is
speaking at the CMU Board of 
Trustees meetings. Seanators, on 
the other hand, represent only 
their college’s constituencies.
In the past week, many people 
have asked
my reason declining comment on 
the proposed hotel. The reason is 
that I wanted to wait until I got 
some questions answered and
became better informed. No, I 
have a more positive Opinion of 
the proposal. However, there are 
many concerns that the ad­
ministration must consider. It is 
important that you realize that 
this is just a proposal. It still must 
be passed by the Board of Trustees 
in October. Consequently, I am 
continued on page 20
M.

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 1985—The Tartan—Page 19
A guide for better freshmen relations
by Greg Borek finding our how dumb you really are and/or hometown is than Pittsburgh. I’m not say- upperclassmen blow things off to make time
The following is intended as a guide for some major psychological disorder.) ing I agree that this is the best place in for such things), an activity which I en-
incoming freshmen. None of the suggestions 2. As soon as possible, lose that dumb, America (therefore the world) to live, but I courage, contain yourself. If you are in a
should be taken as hard fast rules, but it sheepish lost-in-the-woods look. You can tell am not going to take your time complain- dorm with an upperclassman and he has to
might make my stay here more pleasant. who the freshmen are by the dumb, blank ing about it. If your hometown is so wonder- live with the ravages of your riotous living
1. First and foremost, please look on their faces. And learn where the ful, why did you leave? There is a place that (when you miss the porcelain objects in the
don’t tell me how smart you are. buildings are. Don’t ask me; I will give you you vacated, so if you really can’t stand it bathroom with whatever is leaving your
1 realIy don t want to know- directions to East Hole-in-the-wall, WV, if here, there is a place for you back at your body, broken objects that he/she will have
There is no faster way I know to you ask me where Skibo is. Fair enough? exit in Jersey or Geauga, Ohio. to step on and/or pay for, etc.) you might
get an upperclassman to beat you about the S. Another thing that rubs my fur the wrong 5. Face it, you are going to gain ten pounds find youiself between a hard place and a
head and shoulders with wet macaroni. You way is pedantic freshmen going on and on of unsightly fat. Everybody does so pork out harder place. Live it up, live on the edge,
say, “Posh, he is overreacting!” Oh yeah? You about how wealthy their parents are. Look, with the rest of your class, you’ll lose the but remember you have to live with it.
talk to some of your fellow freshmen, and either I am rich too and well end up in a weight later after several years of paying tui- In closing, I’d like to say good luck, do
then you tell me how many of them are om- pissing contest about who is wealthier, or I’m tion. There is this dietr called the poverty what you have to , and most of all pay at-
niscent. Or so they think. You re smart, you poor and I dont want to hear it (unless of diet: all you can eat for $1 a day. Most up- tention; you miss a lot if you don’t. Here is
have to be to get in here (unless you slept course there is a dark alley on your way perclassmen are on this kind of meal plan a line from a song by the group Kansas: “We
with everybody in the Admissions office) but home...). And for Gods sake, if you are a so don’t eat any candy bars in front of them; claim to know the secrets/ The answers have
don’t impose it on me. I’m probably smart, spoiled brat and daddy bought you a the tetanus and rabies shots aren’t worth it. been found/ But how can one fool make
too. (Actually, maybe it won’t be your first Porsche, learn how to drive the damn thing 6. If you are going out and party and enjoy another wise?”
semester, or even your second, but you wont properly. yourself (freshmen are the only species on Greg Borek is a senior who majors in Ap-
’ get through your sophomore year without 4. Don’t tell me how much better your this campus that have time for such things; plied Math.
Random editor produces random philosophy
by Anthony A. Datri Sure this is boring, but it isn’t as boring over the floor in the bathroom in high must have been hallucinating from that
Why are reading this page? I know. You as linear algebra, is it? school. Something to note: the stockroom for great Kiltie food...
are so incredibly bored that you have You know what I hate? I hate it when peo- Entropy is behind a door in Skibo room Back in the sixties, the crew-cut confor- 
nothing elso to do. Oh sure, you have things pie abbreviate the name of this fine institu- 13 —a meeting room. mist parent-types were always complaining
you could do, like your linear algebra tion as C-MU. The whole idea of I am a math/cs major, and I ate lunch to- that they couldn’t tell the difference between
^ homework, but you’ll never be abbreviating it is to save characters and to day with a dramat and an EE. The dramat the boys and the girls because they both had
able to understand that, and make it catchy, right? How the hell do you was very attractive and pleasant, and didn’t long hair, Now in the eighties, you can’t tell
(§1 anyhow, Star Trek is on in only pronounce a hyphen? Besides it looks look like Madonna, the EE is also an oboe the difference because now the boys and girls
an hour and a half, and that stupid... major, and I had just had a shower. Now we are now conformist crew-cut types. It’s
really isnt time enough to do anything. The most important and crucial dif- all know that this isn’t the way it should be, disgusting to see women with crew-cuts. But
I’m sitting in the Cave, (or at least what ference between high school and college is right? All drramats dress like Madonna and then to me a crew-cut is anything above the
used to be the cave, before the Flashcubians that in college, you have reached the high are all psychotic, all EE’s would rather build waist...
got to it), with my feet propped up in front level of maturity and dexterity that allows things out of vacuum tubes than have Anthony a. Datri is a junior majoring in
of a PC. A very cute female is taking my pic- you to have real toilet paper—the kind on anything to do with CFA, and of course I Applied Math/Computer Science.
ture for the yearbook because she thinks I rolls —instead of those strange little folded as a hacker would rather write accounting
look cute holding my teddy bear... squares thingies that always ended up all systems in COBOL than take a shower. I
Travis cites examples of incredible gaps
by Ward C. Travis tion the captain, I’ve come to question the revenues would then have been spread out that CMU was mentioned in “a newspaper
When I first arrived on Carnegie-Mellons nails and tar that hold the ship together. I’ve over those years as well, and our ship’s full article” as being one of a group of “ten hot
campus for a Sleeping Bag Weekend in come to ask our port of call. I’ve come to sails might have gone slack. In light of schools” is a perfect example of avoiding this
February of 1982, I was told during an orien- ask our bearing, and whether or not we are several interviews with members of our ad- issue. I want to know what paper said this,
tation tour that CMU was laid out like a still in the shipping lanes. We seem to be off ministration which have appeared in both and I want to know in whose company we
ship. I was even shown a prow course. The Tartan and letters to the student body’s are in. I suspect we were in the second half
^ labelled “Pittsburgh.” * Let me get to the basis here. CMU is a parents, it is clear that our costs are being of this group of ten, and I suspect the paper
^ I made a mistake that day. I private university which is dedicated to raised to compete with the costs at univer-
neglected to read the full im- academic excellence. This is an assumption sides with which CMU competes. Carnegie- »is&k,
plications of this basic image. CMU is a ship on mY Part, because the evidence is that we Mellon is only charging what the market will
christened Pittsburgh. are actually a commercial crux of Pitt- bear. This is not above defense. Quality I ¦ _
s Over my years here as an undergraduate, sburgh. We seem to be less a university than eduacation requires funding, funding to at-
I have been exposed to a surprisingly large a research park. We seem to be less a univer- tract and retain quality professors, funds to Editor-in-Chief . .. Christopher D. Lewis
number of peers who have expressed discon* sity than a business. provide adequate facilities in which students Managing Editor...............Mohan Embar
tent towards the management and direction - Businesses, you see, make profits. ’WTay can work. Business Manager ...John Friedmann
of CMU. I had always taken these people to back on that cold weekend in 1982, I was Well, then, with tuition having very nearly News Editor.....................................Karen Gray
be in bad moods, or possibly even as reap- told, flat out, that tuition would be going doubled in the last four years, I am un- Features Editor ....Christy Casamassima
ing their just rewards. Sometimes I chalked UP in the years to come. My parents and I satisfied. And I stand convinced that a good Entertainment Editor ..................Al Datri
their comments up to the need to let off discussed this, and it came down to the wire. percentage of my fellow undergraduates Sports Editor..............Bonnie Jacobson
steam. I had been initially impressed with We had to ask CMU for some upper limit share my dissatisfaction. The students have photography Editor..........Olve Peersen
CMU, and I lent a deaf ear to comments on just how high tuition would go during a borne unexpected rises in educational costs Dossier Editor ...................Michele Keane
against it. It was the up-and-coming univer- normal, four-year duration at the universi- with few discernible returns. Carnegie- Art Manager.....................Mike Sussman
sity. It was my ticket to a top-ten education ty. It mattered in my decision, in my college Mellon is not rated in the overall top ten Manager..........................Celeste Clark
and a top-ten experience that would remain choice; I had good offers from other univer- universities. A survey completed last year in- Production Manager . .. Katrin Wesner
in my mind for the rest of my life. God and sides but felt strongly that I wanted to come dicates that CMU was 13th in overall quali- Typesetting Manager .... Kathie Sitter
CMU, I reasoned, both worked in mysterious here. I was told with a straight face that tui- ty. This has not improved. President Cyert’s Asst. Art Manager.............Mark Kissner
ways which to the heathen may seem cold ^on would rise for my incoming year and comment in The Tartan of September 10th Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
and unforgiving, but to the wise seem car- possibly once more during the coming four • r* . .. .. _ ... Kl , . . * D-
ng, and just. I was on the ship to new and years. So I refused other offers and came ODIIIIOII PollCV phg c?9 h " ° " ^ '
xciting lands. I was at Carnegie-Mellon, in here, and since then, with each new an- JT 1 Medrow, Stephen o an.
ittsburgh. nouncement of higher tuition, I’ve grinned,
Those were the days. By my sophomore I’ve borne it. Now that I sit ready to The Editorial appearing at the beginning
ar I became aware that I was falling from graduate, I can only feel as if I have I have of the opinion section is the official opinion Copyright © 1985 by The I artan I he
ace. I realized that a creeping malaise had been played for a fool. I’ve watched and of The Tartan Editorial Board. Editorial Board reserves the right to
nared me, and that CMU was imperfect like Paye<* and gone deep into the red as I’ve Columns are the opinions of individual withhold from publication any copy it deems
any things in life But this was to be ex- soothed myself by reminding myself that it authors who are not necessarily on The Tar- unfit for publication. Editorial Offices:
ected; familiarity breeds contempt, I is a sound investment. It is. But the matter tan Editorial Board or Staff. Skibo 50, (412) 578 2112. Business Offices:
easoned. I assumed that the workload and >n which tuition has been raised is prey to Letters to the Editor are opinions of in- Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone,
he weather were taking their toll on me, and criticism. Why four consecutive years of in- dividual authors who are usually members (412) 578-2111. Mailing address Skibo 103,
hat these symptoms would disappear as I creases? I feel as if my class had been chosen of the University community. A letter in- Student Activities, Carnegie Mellon
rew more accustomed to the place. I just to bear a cross! Why not raise k for two years’ tended for publication must be signed and University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
eeded to get my sea legs as it were. and then resume for another two years? include the writer's address and phone Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
I never got them. The tossing and buck- Then the increases would be evenly number for verification. Names will be All rights reserved,
g of this ship have thrown me into a state distributed over a larger number of classes. withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves
f disillusionment. Now I’ve come to ques- But the answer is clear: the increased the right to condense or reject any letter.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—September 17, 1985
The image of the CMU ship christened Pgh.
continued from page 19
was local. Regardless, I am not surprised 
that CMU has failed to win, place, or show. 
For a university that demands fourteen thou­
sand dollars a year in total costs, we have 
some rather incredible gaps. I cite examples: 
The lack of classroom space. This may ac­
tually be the result of Admissions’ having 
been given free reign to admit as many 
students as possible in order to raise captial 
in an express manner, classrooms are crowd­
ed.
The high cost of campus housing. CMU’s 
housing system leaves much to be desire. 
While the vast majority of the rooms are 
adequate for student living, their cost is in­
ordinately high. For less than the cost of a 
four-person, two-room apartment on cam­
pus with nine month accupancy, for 
students can rent a comparable or superior 
fve room apartment in any of the boroughs 
surrounding the campus.
The high costs of auxiliaries such as the 
bookstore and Entropy. After having paid
by Dan Tobias
Last December 6, a fugitive from the law, 
who had been living underground for two 
years, was finally captured. On July 2 this 
year, he was convicted and sentenced to a 
prison term. What was Paul Jacob’s heinous 
act? He failed to register for the 
draft.
C° “It’s Quick, It’s Easy, It’s the
Law,” says the government- 
produced public “service” messages, but the 
possibility of being inducted against his will 
into the armed forces to fight, and possibly 
die, in some future war did not strike Mr. 
Jacob as being “quick” or “easy,” and, if it 
is the law, it would appear to infringe the 
Constitutional prohibition on “Slavery or In­
voluntary Servitude.” “It’s No Big Deal,” says 
the government messages, but the govern­
ment is making a big deal of Mr. Jacob’s case 
and others like it; he is presently serving 
prison time for acting inaccordance with his 
conscience.
If the United States truly needs to defend 
itself, there will be no shortage of volunteers. 
During peacetime, our relatively small 
military needs can be filled by an all- 
volunteer army, by paying soldiers wages 
which are competitive in the free market 
with other jobs potential soldiers might 
choose. The only time when a draft is 
“necessary” is when the government wishes 
to get involved in a war which is not sup-
Promise her in time 
Your love will bloom. . .
We promise in time 
to allow full amount 
toward engagement ring.
IMPERIAL JEWELRY
Maxon Towers 
6315 Forbes Avenue 
One Mite Out From Campus
(412) 521 8930
ported by the public, and which is only be­
ing fought for the benefit of limited special 
interests such as big business or big politics, 
rather than in defense of America. The 
availability of cannon fodder only en­
courages the government to get us into 
another Vietnam.
Many people have expressed doubts aboust 
the morality and constitutionally of “using 
slaves to defend freedom,” as some have call­
ed the draft. For example, Daniel Webster 
said in 1814, “Where is it written in the Con­
stitution that you may take children from 
their parents, and parents from their 
children, and compel them to fight the bat­
tles of any war in which the folly or 
wickedness of the government may engage 
it?” And this was written before the 13th 
Amendment established that “Involuntary 
Servitude” should not exist in the United 
States except as punishment for a crime. 
What crime have 18-year old men 
committed?
Thus, I unequivocally oppose any attempt 
to revive the draft, and call for the ending 
of “Draft Registration.” I applaud people 
such a Paul Jacob, and the many thoousands 
of others who have risked imprisonment by 
refusing to register. So far only a handful 
have even been arrested; there would not be 
a room in all the jails in America to hold 
everyone who didn’t register. By not register­
ing, you are taking a firm stand on the im­
morality of the draft.
Dan Tobias is a senior majoring in Applied 
Math.
Opinionsimportant
continued from page 18
ing you to give me your opinions or quej- 
tions prior to this meeting so that our con­
cerns will be addressed.
Since understanding your thoughts is im­
portant to my position, I have set up office 
hours daily, in the Student Senate Office 
(Skibo 59).
Monday 5:30-7 pm
Tuesday 1:30-2:30 pm
Wedneday 10:30-noon, 6-7
Thursday 12:30-1:30
An alternative, is placing your suggestions 
in the opinion boxes at the Morewood 
rnailroom, Donner mailroom and Skibo Info 
Desk. Honestly, if your don’t agree with my 
thoughts or have an opinion for or against 
another issue, please let me know.
Karen Lee is a senior majoring in Industrial 
Management and is the President of Student 
Government.
such a high tuition, it is ridiculous that the 
C-MU bookstore make the killing it does on 
books.
The preference of the administration to 
build such frivolous luxuries as a conference 
center before providing the student body 
with adequate library and classroom space, 
and before constructing a student union.
I’d like to add, before closing, that the 
hotel idea has not been irrvocably set in the 
concrete of CMU’s future. It has some time 
before it must be approved by the Board of 
Trustees. President Cyerty is a very shrewd, 
my fellow students, and it is very likely that 
he will convince the Baord ot approve the 
hotel unless we act quickly. I propose that 
all of yoiu, and your parents if possible, 
write directly to the Board of Tustees, and 
send a copy to president Cyert. This must 
be done soon. Express your serious doubts 
ovetr this $35 million expense in light of the 
lacks the universiy suffers at this time. Ex­
press your doubts that the hotel complex will 
benefit the students of this University 
enought to justify its presence. But do so 
soon! Send a copy to the Tartan, too. It is 
not too late to stop this from happening, but 
it won’t be long before the decision will be 
made.
There is obviously some great confusion 
of priorities at this university. My parent^ 
think so, I think so, and I’m sure that we 
as a family are not alone. I obtain cold con­
solation from the fact that our President, 
after having alienated several classes runn­
ing with his tight ship, could be seeing a 
significant drop in the Alumni Fund in com­
ing decades. This, however, will not be as 
much of a shock as the university’s decling 
revenures as students get lured away to bet­
ter, more effective, and more affordable 
universities.
Ward C. Travis is a senior majoring in Ap­
plied Mathematics.
4#Draft not quick or easy
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
• student discount available 
•easily accessible bv bus from CMl'
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-4770
MasterCard. \ 'isa accepted 
( .all ap/MMnnnciu
HEWLETT
PACKARD
LIST
PRICE
75 00
OUR
PRICE
5995 
89 95 
99.95 
99 95
MODEL CALCULATORS
HP 11C Slim-L«ne Scientific 
MP-1ZC Advanced Financial 120 00 
NP-I5C Advanced Scientific 12C 00 
Iff-IK Digital Programmer 120 00 
RMItt Handheld Computer 225 00 19508 
NP-4ICX Handheld Computer 325 00 245.06 
Of 71* Handheld Computer 525 00 395 00
All calculators in stock for same 
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed
(>\
COMPUTER
PRODUCTS
DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210Call: (716) 854-0004
Hair des?nThedilW®nce
IS
rdinary
Haircuts $14 to $16
Mon.-Fri. 9 to 9 
.9 to 5Lewis’ S
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

Who says the 
Pittsburgh Symphony 
is beyond your
Now, with our 
Special Student Subscription, 
you can enjoy 8 Sunday 
Afternoon Concerts for only $28.
Students, we've chosen a series just for you, designed to bring you 
the best of the Pittsburgh Symphony at one low price, at a time 
that's right for you. For only $3.50 a concert, you can thrill to the 
works of Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and Beethoven in the elegant 
setting of Heinz Hall.
Take a look at the programs. All have been chosen with your 
schedule in mind: evenly distributed (four concerts this semester, 
four concerts next semester), and designed to accommodate your 
finals schedule.
Imagine, for less than the price of a movie, you can escape from the 
daily school routine, and spend your Sunday Afternoons with us.
1985-86 Student Series
Oct-13 Michael Lankester conducts Mozart, Kolb, Debussy, and 
Janacek; with Guest Artist Jeffrey Siegal, piano
Oct. 20 Rudolph Barshai conducts Tchaikovsky and Shostakovich; 
with Guest Artist Ivo POgorelich, piano
Nov. 24 Yoshima Takeda conducts Copland, Elgar, and
Rachmaninov; with Guest Artist Jorge Bolet, piano
Dec. 1 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven and Prokofiev; with 
Guest Artist Alexis Weissenberg, piano
Jan. 26 Herbert Blomstedt conducts Weber, Bartók, and Brahms; 
with Guest Artist Malcolm Frager, piano
Mar. 2 Jean-Pierre Rampal will conduct and Perform Rossini, Bach, 
Mozart, and Beethoven
Mar. 30 Christoph Eschenbach will conduct arid Perform Mozart 
and Brahms
Apr. 13 Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos conducts Dvorak and 
Rimsky-Korsakov
ALL CONCERTS ARE ON SUNDAYS, AT 2:30
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments
To order call: 392-4821
The Pittsburgh Symphony. Bringing 
the best to the Students of Pittsburgh.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
ATTENTION: 
Seniors in H&SS and IM
The H&SS Senior Resume Book is 
currently being prepared by the 
Office of Career Services and 
Placement. This book will be cir­
culated to over200 companies and 
corporations. The deadline for 
submitting your completed 
resume to the Office of Career 
Services and Placement so it 
may be included in this book is 
Friday, September 20. If you 
would like help in writing your 
resume, make an appointment 
to see Debbie Mall in Career 
Services and Placement, War­
ner Hall Room 19.
Yvair«^
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED1 
Great Styles Start at... no
,««SmEeihEe 
2PsPoo—Tb IlfiCfl I
CBfCCTIITWnSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
WASH, CUT AND COLOR PERMS FOR
BLOW DRY ALL STYLES
$13.00 $25.00
(ANY LENGTH)

---------------------------------------------------

Acrile.
Events
Movies1*7I Ë Picnic at Hanging, starring Rachel 
w Roberts. A group of girls disappear 
during a school outing. Rated PG. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
1984, starring Richard Burton, Suzanna 
Hamilton, John Hurt, Cyril Cusack. Tense 
remake of the 1956 version of George Orwell’s vi­
sion of the future. Burton gives a fine perfor­
mance (his last.) Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse,
7 pm, 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Women’s Volleyball home meet against Indiana 
University at 6:30 pm.
Recreation
Tai Chi Chuan, ancient Chinese exercise sessions 
for fitness and weight control. Instructor Bob Lin. 
Skibo 11, 2 pm to 3:30 pm. All students and facul­
ty members welcome.
Club«Student Senate meets in Skibo Wherrett Room 
at 7 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
The Medieval Architect, Geometry, and God, 
presented by Francois Bucher, Professor of Art 
and Architecture, Florida State University. Part 
of the Architecture Lecture Series. Wean Hall 
7500, 8 pm.
Fiction & Poetry 
Tuesday Night Readings. Judy Vollmer reads 
Poetry, Linda Lee Harper reads fiction. Spon­
sored by University of Pittsburgh’s Writing Pro­
gram. The Back Room of Hemingway’s Cafe, 
Forbes Ave., Oakland, 8:30 pm. Everyone 
Welcome.
^ Movies
Cousin, Cousine, starring Marie- 
JL V-X France Pisier. Delightful comedy 
about two cousins who fall in 
love. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2 95.
1984. See Tuesday September 17 for details.
Recreation
La Table Française, the French Language Table 
at the Morewood Dining Room. Everyone in­
terested in the French language is invited to at­
tend. Morewood Gardens, 12 noon.
Clubs
AIESEC offers a world of experience, both prac­
tical and cultural, in an international student- 
run business organization. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty Hall 2304 at
8 pm.
Lectures
Gothic Architectural Design, presented by Fran­
cois Bucher, Professor of Art and Architecture, 
Florida Su te University. Part of the Architecture 
Seminar Series. College of Fine Arts 206, 11:30 
am.
Classifieds
Plants & Flowers for sale. Desk plants $7.50. 
Bouquets $3 - 5.00. . all FRESH... ALEX’S 
FLOWERS. Comer of Craig/Bayard (across from 
Gulf Station.)
Audiophile Stereo, Dual-Sonus-Advent-Spica 
$600. Kenwood Hispeed 60 Watts $250. 13” 
Television Guarentee $125. IBM Typewriter $200. 
687-7445.
TYPING------Dissertations, term papers, all at
once in chapters: graduate-CMUs writing pro­
gram; my wordprocessor to your account; 
421-1197, evenings.
The Performers’ Collective—singagrams, 
bellygrams, comedygrams, male and female 
dancergrams, jugglers, clowns, puppeteers, 
mimes, magicians. 731-8877.
Human drummer wanted by CMU-based 
blues/rock band Zone Bleue. 441-7458 evenings.
3 BR House for rent- Squirrel Hill- for 3 peo­
ple. $210 each + utilities. Call Maria at
521-4257.
Intimate Friendship or Group Marriage? Peo­
ple interested in alternative forms of committed 
intimate relationships which expand the human 
potential for love, inquire about us: Amber 
Crystal Box 7282 Pgh, PA 15213.
Parties, parties, parties: We have everything for 
your party at PAPERMART. . .over 10,000 square 
feet of PARTY SUPPLIES in our PARTY 
SUPERMARKET. Baum Blvd at Morewood Ave. 
681-8900.
¿10 - $360 Weekly/Up mailing circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, P.O. Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Apartment for rent—Shadyside, 2 bedroom, new 
carpeting, freshly painted, $450/month includes 
all utilities, X8808 or 733-1560.
National advertising firm seeks representative 
from your campus. Post national clients & han­
dle on-campus promotions. No direct sales. Ex­
cellent opportunity for career-directed. Avg. 
$5-6 per hr. commission plus piecework. Flex­
ible hours. Call 1-800-426-5537, ask for “rep job” 
American Passage Media Corp.
Earn up to $2,000 in your spare time teaching 
KNITTING! For more information call collect 
617-266-7383.
Over 50 Brands of Audio, Video and Car Stereo 
Equipment. Contact Hall at 683-3948 after 6 
p.m.
Renault Le Car ’82, good looking , tip-top shape, 
loaded, raised on TLC, the right person gets the 
right price. Call Hank, 531-3676.
For Rent— Bloomfield-unfumished-3 Rooms; 
Bath; Modern; 3rd Floor; Wall to Wall 
Carpeting-Adult-361 -2928.
^ _ Movies
I City of Women, starring Marcello
JL Mastroianni. Directed by Federico
Fellini. Fascinating film about men’s fantasies 
about women. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
1984. See Tuesday September 17 for details.
Kagemusha. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 9 pm. Ad­
mission $2.95.
Music
Tannahill Weavers, a concert of traditional 
Scottish music. Graffitti, 4615 Baum Blvd., 8 
pm. Advance tickets $7 at Irish Design Center, 
Kaufmann’s, and Graffitti, $9 at the door. 
Sports
Women’s Volleyball home game against Califor­
nia University and Robert Morris College at 6 pm.
Women's Tennis away game against Washington 
and Jefferson College at 3:30 pm.
Women’s Field Hockey away game against 
Washington and Jefferson College at 3:30 pm.
Recreation
Tai Chi Chuan, ancient Chinese exercise sessions 
for fitness and weight control. Instructor Bob Lin. 
Skibo 11, 2 pm to 3:30 pm. All students and facul­
ty members welcome.
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German Language 
Table at the Morewood Dining Room. Everyone 
interested in the German language is invited to 
attend. Morewood Gardens, 12 noon.
Clubs
Explorer's Club plans rock-climbing, kayaking, 
and hiking trips every weekend. Skibo 11, 8 pm. 
Beginners welcome.
CMU Investment Group. Learn how to invest 
anH manage a real portfolio. Officer elections will 
be held. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
‘ Movies
f I I Code of Silence, starring Chuck 
Norris. A good action film about 
a Chicago cop who tries to expose a crooked cop. 
Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Gods Must Be Crazy, starring Nixau, 
Marius Meyers,* Sandra Prisloo. One of the three 
concurrent plots involves the Bushmen’s lives be­
ing changed when someone drops a Coke bottle 
out of an airplane window. Hilarious film. Rated 
PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Purple Rain. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Recreation
AB Coffeehouse with Yakow Smirnoff, co-star of 
Moscow on the Hudson. Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm.
_ MoviesOlf I A View to a Kill, starring Roger 
mmmi JL Moore, Christopher Walken, Grace 
Jones. More action and thrills from 007. Rated 
PG. Pittsburgh. Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Gods Must Be Crazy. See Friday September 
20 for details.*
City Heat. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Sports
Tartan Football against John Carroll University 
at 2:05 pm.
Soccer home game against John Carroll Univer­
sity at 1 pm.
Men’s and Women’s Cross-Country Indiana In­
vitational at 11 am.
Women’s Field Hockey away game against Slip­
pery Rock University at 1 pm.
Women’s Volleyball away game against Saint 
Vincent College and LaRoche College. Saint Vin­
cent College, 1:30 pm.
Women's Tennis away game against Chatham 
College at 1 pm.
Recreation 
AB Dance. Skibo Ballroom, 9 pm.
Art
Haute Decor, 1985 Art and Interior Design Show 
to benefit St. Peter’s Child Development Centers. 
An elegant showcase of Pittsburgh’s most promi­
nent and talented interior designers, plus exciting 
design lectures, table setting displays, and a 
celebrity auction. English teas and gourmet lun- J 
ches available. Pittsburgh Civic Garden Center, 
1059 Shady Avenue in Shadyside. Donation $4. 
Call 882-6330 for more information.
Movies
f f My Man Godfrey, starring 
William Powell, Carole Lombard. 
Famous screwball comedy about a wealthy man 
hired as a butler. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Gods Must Be Crazy. See Friday September 
20 for description. Show times are now 7 pm, 9 
pm.
Lectures
How to Stop the Earth or Why Some Christians 
Think the Earth Doesn’t Move. Speaker: Fran­
cis Graham, a Doctoral Student in Earth and 
Planetary Sciences at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Presented by the Roving Roundtable. First 
Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh, 10 am to 11 am. 
Everyone welcome.
Art
Haute Decor. See Saturday September 21 for 
details.
Community Events 
Comics. Science Fiction and assortment of the 
bizarre plus videos all day. BEM presents 
Transfer 9. Howard Johnson’s Motor Lodge, 
Oakland 3401 Blvd. of the Allies, Ground Floor. 
Membership $2.50. Inforamtion: (412) 243-2736.
liSJh406 South Craig St. 
Oakland
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAH2 CLUUK
Sàve"FÌve~D0llàrs!~l \ Save Six Dollars!}
I
Present This Coupon And !
Receive A
Present This Coupon And 
Receive A COMPLETE j
HAIRCUT $1Qo<> ! PERM $290o
flaw Ottmn• Hmu Cutting
• So*ci*i Enacts •BodyWaw«• Hair Coto»
* Men's Or 
Women’sPrt?e$15°*
•Includes: Haircut,
Perm, Blow Dry And Stylingi_______________________________i :---------------------------—--------
I 
I
Reg. ! 
Price J35 o* I
_ __ MoviesQ Of Glen or Glenda? A man wants to
AaJ be a woman. Pittsburgh Playhouse,
7:30 pm, 10 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Gods Must Be Crazy. See Sunday September 
22 for details.
Clubs
A phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 :30 
pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Supporting Yourself as an Artist, presented by 
Deborah A. Hoover, Executive Director, Council 
for the Arts at MIT. Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm. 
Art
Haute Decor. See Saturday September 21 for 
details.
fcm nvnZ^ZTCMU Travel Office
Campus Gomerimce
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

MIGHT AS WE'LL 
5AVE IT GUY, 
WE GÓTTA 
RE SHOOT IT 
OVER.
} WHAT/?/
Brin gGo
PROBLEM ? >
THIS 15 GUY SMITH FOR XYZ 
NEWS. THIS THE ARTIC. A 
PLACE OF BREATH -TAKIMG 
\8EAUTV AND IIMN6CEMCE... >
noci man
iinr. »nnrann nrm 
nnniinn nnarnnr? 
nnra i-jnnnn 
inn »inn 
i.irn ?inn i.innng 
•in linnoiinü ^ 
iiRiinc onn i3nm 
iinm i«n r amra 
«a inn mHîï 
iiiimnn iinnnni.i 
•inn rsnn
isnnc i n
Morning Classes
There was a little bluebird 
Perched on my windowsill 
Who cocked his eye and said, 
“Wake up, you sleepyhead!”
Solution for Last Week's Crossword
BLOOM COUNTY
(fReevnos /T M FfiNNie LOU'Smu Pit rue mm// 
sbuu wuFercH H6R, PLCftSe ?
/
crsv'is
mehveryvvlUCi,. wiih vcrvj .very LUI e fuel..
Murray The Bear
Lnlo U\e aly oí RHsloumV
by Nabil Liumang
by Jimbo Voorhees
Yeah, yeah. We know we promised last week that Bloom County would be a regular 
feature in The Tartan. We thought so too, but apparently our supplier is playing 
hooky. The supplier is now being contacted and hopefully we will begin running 
current strips next week. The strip above should help tide you over; after all, if Opus 
can wait, so can you.
ZURK
1_____________
.. anci from Ihe 
ruUole, came..
YE5SIR...I JUST UV6 FOR UFZ'Surne fmAL•CalSURPRISES /
3b&egmnmg
therewasa
spacccr
Andilit50
untoIKtar
by Berke Breathed990 Tartan Photo Contest
So you think you know this campus inside and out, huh? Yeah, we all know the old routine: get 
out of bed (or out of soft, cushy chair at Hunt Library,) shower or whatever, eat breakfast at Kiltie, 
go to first class, go to second class .... But how often do you take time out from your busy day 
to stare at walls, plant the seeds from your Kiltie apple on the cut, chew marshmallows on the Fine 
Arts Lawn in the rain, or, in short, savor the simple pleasures in life that we all too often seem 
to overlook in our daily grind?
Taking part in our humble photo contest will give your mind one more chance to be at peace 
with yourself. Please enlighten The Tartan’s puzzled staff members by explaining the picture below, 
which was taken somewhere on this campus. Your answer does not necessarily have to be accurate. 
Winners of this contest will be selected on the basis of creativity and originality.
Send your entries to Bob McNally, c/o The Tartan, Skibo 103. Or send them by computer mail 
to TT99@TOPSF. All entries must be received by Thursday September 19, 1985. Winners will
no* onn/Mir*/'on in novt- uraol/ r lecna
AS H6R ROOMMATE,BeéN ftSKiP TV FILLT(\Kerigh go-g i LOfím 
Gu Ghr TLL eeour IN ft MINUTE,
FftNNIE LOU RAN OFF tìNP MARRIEP ft ^MSTIERtme? -sNfiw mrm"INLRSfáftS )€9TERPflY.

---------------------------------------------------

...and it’s been a best 
seller for over 20 years. 
The story? It begins with 
your phone call and ends 
at your door with a hot, 
delicious pizza delivered 
in 30 minutes or less.
Domino’s Pizza is critically 
acclaimed as the #1 
source for fast, free 
delivery. Check us out.
We use only 100% real 
dairy cheese.
Our drivers carry less 
than $10.00.
Limited delivery area.
©1981 Domino’s Pizza, Inc.
a
</>
o
z4
s
rd
ON 
O CL
We wrote the book on free delivery...

---------------------------------------------------

phootttbyf
$2.00 off any 16”2 item or more pizza
One coupon per pizza. 
Expires: 9/29/85
Fast, Free Delivery"
315 North Crarg St. 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
$1.00 off any 12” 
or 16” Domino’s Pizza 
One coupon per pizza. 
Expires: 9/29/85
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
Fast, Free Delivery"
315 North Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
