Carnegie Day 
Schedule 
See Page 2
Tartans Trounce 
Johns Hopkins 
Medics 
See Page 7
VOL. 50—No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCT. 9, 1956
Wily Weekend Will Be Wise ’n Witty
_ _ __ _ ^Proverbial Weekend To Feature 
Dances, Dinners, Gridiron Game
This Friday our “Wise and Witty” Homecoming Weekend will 
begin with the annual Carnegie Day exercises in the Skibo Gym 
at 11:30. The program will include concerts by the Kiltie Band 
and the Cameron Choir, the call to student honoraries, and will be
highlighted by the Coronation^---------------------------------------------------------
Processional and the crowning of line Homecoming Queen by Dr. J.
C. Warner.
Following the Carnegie Day ex­
ercises, Varsity Varities will be 
presented at Morewood Gardens 
in the recreation room. Each of 
the sororities has prepared a 
twelve minute skit. This year a 
new seating arrangement has been 
planned to provide comfortable 
seating for everyone.t
At 7:30 in the evening the 
eerleaders will lead a parade 
from Morewood Gardens to the 
Tech Bowl for the “beat Dickin­
son” pep rally. By the light of a 
bonfire the fraternity pledges will 
give their cheers. During and 
following this are the fraternity 
parties and the display judging.
Saturday
Saturday, students and alumni 
tvill turn out at Forbes Field to 
see Tech play Dickinson. This year 
“ e game will be in honor of Pitts­
burgh’s and Carnegie Tech’s own 
Howard Harpster, the football 
player with the mind of a coach,
Who led Tech to a stunning up­
set of Notre Dame in 1926 and 
made All-American in 1928.
Harpster, along with other greats 
such as Paul Christman (Mis­
souri), Bill Dudley (Virginia) and 
Frankie Albert (Sanford), will bef
esented with a plaque during 
e half-time ceremonies. The 
plaque, denoting his election to 
the Hall of Fame, will be present­
ed by Tom Hamilton, athletic di­
rector at Pitt.
In the evening Jerry Mercer’s 
Band will play at the semi-formal 
Homecoming dance. During inter­
mission, the queen will present the 
much coveted awards for Varsity 
Varieties, fraternity displays and 
pledge cheers. Following the dance 
wie fraternities will serve break­
fast.
On Sunday afternoon Morewood 
Gardens will open to all visitors 
from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. This is the 
yearly chance for the male popu­
lation to see how the other half 
lives.
Pledges Cheer 
At Pep Rally
This year’s Homecoming activ­
ities will be highlighted by the 
now traditional Friday night pep 
rally and pledge cheer contest. At 
7:30, members of the Kiltie Band 
will form near the Fine Arts 
building for a march to the fra­
ternity houses and to Morewood 
Gardens where the band will at­
tempt to lure the girls from the 
towers.
From Morewood, the band, 
headed by the cheerleaders and 
the homecoming queen and her 
court, will lead a procession up 
Forbes Street to the Skibo Bowl.
At the Bowl the revelers will 
be greeted by members of Techrs 
football team. On a field made 
.bright by a huge bonfire, the 
pledges of the 12 fraternities will 
then vie for the pledge cheer 
trophy.
Cheers will be judged on the 
basis of precision, originality, 
popular appeal, and suitability 
for addition to Tech’s repertoire 
of yells.
Mums
The wearing of chrysanthe­
mums to the Homecoming 
game is a tradition at Tech. 
Orders will be taken all this 
week in Skibo, the fraterni­
ties, and the dorms. Those 
ordering mums in Skibo will 
be able to pick them up^ at 
Morewood Gardens on Sat­
urday at 12:30 p.m. Tied with 
Carnegie plaid ribbon, they 
will sell at $.90 each.
Political Debate 
To Be Presented 
At Tech Forum
Keep Tuesday nights free, be­
cause they signify Tech Commu­
nity Forum night. Next Tuesday 
night, October 16, marks the open­
ing session of the 1956-7 series 
and will have as its guests speak­
ers James Fulton, Republican 
congressman from Dormont, Pa., 
and Pittsburgh’s Elmer Holland, 
Democratic congressman.
The evenings activity will con-
two wey-informed men who have 
actually had a chance to see what 
is going on behind the scenes in 
this year’s presidential campaign. 
Since their subject for thiS de­
bate will be a timely one—“the 
national election”—it will be espe- 
[continued on page 12j
New Student Congress 
Handles More Duties
Techs newly elected Student Congress met Wednesday, October 
3, to find out its duties and to nominate candidates „ for its offices. 
With roughly fifty per cent of the members present, the Congress 
heard Dr. Dale Strick, co-ordinator of student activities, explain
--------------------------------------------------------?the purposes and functions of
the group.
Tickets
Homecoming dance tickets 
are on sale all this week from 
11:30 to 1:30 in Skibo and at 
the fraternity houses. The 
price is $3.00 per couple.
Printers' Lithography Forum
Behind the scenes in Black Cat Lounge where the AV cameras 
fere set op for the Litho Forum last weekend. This program was 
televised up to 600 viewers in Thistle Hall.
The purpose, Strick said, is to 
provide a more representative stu­
dent government which can take 
on more responsibilities for cam­
pus activities. For example, the 
new Council will plan and or­
ganize Homecoming and Spring 
Carnival. To perform these duties 
the Council is divided into three 
branches — legislative, executive, 
and judicial. The Student Congress 
is the legislative branch of the 
government.
By Department 
The representatives already 
elected to the Congress are: Dick 
O'Conner and John Kunesh, 
chemical engineering; Tom Crem- 
er, chemistry; Norm Achilles, civil 
engineering; Bob Anderson, math­
ematics; Carl Arendt, physics; Lee 
Ligo, architecture; Dan Levinson 
and Louis Napoleon, drama; Dave 
Clements and Ron Barron, paint­
ing and design; Bill Grove, indus­
trial management; Jo Lacey, gen­
eral studies; Cissie Rafferty and 
Sally Ambrose, home economics; 
Marilyn Casey, science; June Hos- 
tetter, secretarial studies; Mike 
Ban, printing management.
From the Greeks 
Del Ritchie, ATO; Stan Zionts, 
BSR; Jack Weinhold, BTP; Bill 
Wilton, DTD; Merle Steir, DU; Ron 
McLean, KS; Tony Graziano; PK; 
Lou Marquet, PKA; Bill Detweil- 
• [continued on page _^l
Religious Assembly 
Features Dr. Eliot, 
Unitarian Leader
Dr. Frederick May Eliot, presi­
dent of the American Unitarian 
Church Association, will present 
the third in a series of lectures on 
“Religion ajn d the Political 
Choice.” At 11:30 in the Fine Arts
Gung-Ho Greeks Going All Out 
To Build The Finest Displays
Fraternity feelings on Homecoming display this year range from 
“Let’s make it a Max Liebman spectacular” to “Let’s just have a 
lot of fun.” Of course as always, size and elaborateness of display 
rate a big zero on the judge’s scorecard. Judgment is on the basis of
?originality, appropriateness, effec­
tiveness of expression and work­
manship. Judging will take place 
on Friday, beginning at 7:15. Tjhe 
fraternities will carry out the 
Homecoming slogan of “Wise and 
Witty” through a display of well- 
known proverbs illustrated in 
some rather unconventional ways.
ATO’s proverb is “Careless 
words get you in the end” and 
they offer this tongue-twister as 
the only clue to their display, 
“after the bear is annoyed by the 
hare, the hare escapes the bear’s 
lair, and then snares the bear.” 
Scottie Revived 
A literal translation of the 
proverb, “Read much, but not too 
many books” is promised by the 
Taru Delt’s display chairman.
Beta Theta Pi’s proverb “The 
devil is subtle, yet weaves a 
coarse web” will be illustrated 
through a huge spider web cover­
ing the front of their new house.
Next door the DU's have resur­
rected the once well-known Tech 
Scottie dog from out of the past 
to nip Dickinson’s Red Devils in 
an explanation of how “Every dog 
has his day.”
TX grimly warns Dickinson that 
“Here today, gone tomorrow” with 
Saint Peter at the Golden Gate of 
Heaven (somewhat incongruously 
defined by the display chairman as 
being Tech) welcoming the alumni 
and casting out Dickinson's Red 
Devils.
PK Counterfeits
PiKA has a spooky proverb, 
“In every ruin we find the devil”; 
and will answer only emigmatic- 
ally to questions concerning their 
display, “Look for the big boom 
on the PiKA lawn.”
SAE goes nostalgic on us in 
“Time waits for no man” with a 
college scrapbook following the 
freshman through his years at 
Tech and showing him as an alum 
returning to the old alma mater.
Phi Kaps have headeJ their 
proverb “A penny saved is a pen­
ny earned” anu have decided to 
save money for bigger and bet­
ter fun at Homecoming and stress 
good workmanship on .heir dis­
play. It will be a huge spinning 
penny flanked by two Scotsmen.
[confirmed on page 4 J
Dr. F. M. Eliot
Unitarian At Assembly
Little Theater, Dr. Eliot will speak 
on the topic “Freedom is the Duty 
to Choose.”
In addition to his duties as 
president of the AUA which he as­
sumed in 1937, Dr. Eliot handles 
the responsibilities of president 
of the Board of Trustees of Mount 
Holyoke College and of chaplain 
of the Massachussetts Senate. He 
has held the latter office, with the 
exception of one term, since 1945. 
Before taking on his Boston du­
ties, he served for 20 yeai's as 
minister of the St. Paul, Minne­
sota, Unitarian Church.
Receiving a bachelor of arts de­
gree from Harvard in 1911 and a 
bachelor of sacred theology in the 
Harvard Divinity School in 1915, 
Dr. Eliot has since been awarded 
honorary degrees of doctor of 
[continued on page 12]
Homecoming Schedule
Friday, October 12
1:30—Carnegie Day ........................................................ Gymnasium
3:00—Varsity Varieties ................... Morewood Recreation Room
*4:00—Reception and Tea...........................................Carnegie Union
*6:00—Class Reunion Dinners
*6:00—Tartan Buffet..............................................Hotel Webster Hall
7:30—Pep Rally ..................................*................................ Skibo Hall
8:30—Open House ...................................................... All fraternities
Saturday, October 13
*9:00—Alumni Breakfast...................................... Morewood Gardens
*10:30—Alumni meetings with deans and department heads
*12:00—Homecoming Luncheon ....................................... Gymnasium
2:00—Football Game........................................................ Forbes Field
*4:30—Fifth Quarter Cocktail Party ............. Hotel Webster Hall
*6:30—All-Alumni Dinner Dance.....................Hotel Webster Hall
9:00—Homecoming Dance ............................................. Gymnasium
Sunday, October 14
2:30-4:30—Open House ................................... Morewood Gardens
* Alumni Functions

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1958
Carnegie Day Program
Pride of Ludington—March ....................................... Richard Feasal
Emblem of Honor—March ................................................. R. Danbury
(In honor of the election of Howard Harpster to the Hall of Fame)
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
George E. Reynolds, Director
Master of Ceremonies ....................................... Richard Brown D ’57
North Sea Overture ...................................................... Ralph Hermann
The Kiltie Symphonic Band
Alumni Message 
Call of Honoraries
Alpha Phi Omega ...................... Joseph W. Early, Jr., IM '58
Omega Delta Kappa ..................... John N. Kestner, P&D ’57
Phi Kappa Phi ............................ Harry W. Karn, professor of
psychology and education
Tau Beta Pi ................................ Louis Salvador, Chem. E. ’57
Selections by the Cameron Choir .... Richard L. Camp, Director 
Call of Honoraries
Pi Delta Epsilon .......................... Stephanie A. Mackay, GS ’57
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia.................Arthur Motycka, Jr., M. ’57
Sigma Xi .............................. Truman P. Kohman, associate
professor of chemistry
Phi Tau Gamma.............................................. Lois Griffin, GS ’58
Wee MacGreggor Patrol ................................................................. Amers
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
Awards and Presentations
Presentation of Senior Class
Plaque by Delta Skull .................. Marlyn Jakub. MA ’58
Council of Fraternity Presidents
Scholarship Cup ..................................... James Plugge, PM .’57
Pittsburgh Panhellenic Association
Scholarship Cup .............................. Mrs. Robert G. Roberts
Junior Panhellenic Council Trophy ........................ Lyn Tryon
Mortar Board Award ...................... Evelyn L. Alessio, GS ’57
Tau Beta Pi Freshman Award .. Louis Salvador, Chem E. ’57
Freshman Traditions Award .............. Thomas Bieg, IM ’59
Scholars and Honor Students ...... Dr. Raymond E. Parshall
Presentation of President J. C. Warner 
Coronation of the Homecoming Queen
Procession of Nobles (Mlada) ...................... Rimsky-Korsakov
The Kiltie Symphonic Band
Coronation Procession ......................Kiltie Pipers
Scabbard and Blade
Crowning of the Queen ..................Dr. Warner
Court Entertainment 
Confucius Counsels the Court . . Alan G. Gorelick, P&D ’58
Karl O. Kraft, Jr., D ’58 
Edward R. Martz, ’58 
Mark A. Schoenberg, D ’57 
Clyde C. Sharp, D ’57 
Official Opening of Homecoming .... Homecoming Queen 
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie ...... Robert Schmertz
Tech Students 
Discuss Plans 
To Support Ike
A small group of Eisenhower 
supporters and one lone Steven­
son spy gathered in PH 100, Fri­
day, October 5, for the first meet­
ing of Students for Eisenhower. 
Before there was a general dis­
cussion of plans, chairman Bruce 
Gowens briefly outlined the or­
ganization’s aims, and distributed 
literature. Committees were ap­
pointed and chairmen named: Co- 
chairman Noel Kocker; publicity, 
Marcia Spires; posters, Linda Ca- 
rothers; distribution, Annie Hoff­
man; secretarial, Nancy Heinen. 
It was announced that the school 
controller, Dr. Patton, will serve 
as a faculty advisor.
There were several important 
announcements made; foremost of 
which was that the Young Col­
lege Republican’s rally will be 
held October 24. Then the discus­
sion turned to the coming visit 
of President Eisenhower to 
Pittsburgh. The President will 
speak October 9 at the Hunt Ar­
mory. Students for Eisenhower 
will be attending in a group, leav­
ing from in front of the Wood- 
lawn Pharmacy at 6:00 Tuesday. 
All prospective members are wel­
come, of course. A signature scroll 
will be passed among students and 
will be presented to President 
Eisenhower later this month as a 
birthday present. Students should 
watch for the sign-up table in 
Administration Hall.
Tech Student 
Presents Views 
On Administration
By Elliott Rothman
Editor’s Note:
As mentioned in last week’s edi­
torial, the TARTAN has invited 
both student political groups to 
submit articles presenting their 
party’s stand on major issues. The 
TARTAN has not yet received any 
such articles from the Republican 
group, but will print those which 
are submitted. In bringing poli­
tical news to the campus, the 
TARTAN intends to remain neu­
tral.
Today the administration in 
Washington speaks of “Peace”. 
Yet there is no peace. The borders 
of Israel and Jordan are inflamed. 
And in the spring of 1956 the 
President even indicated sending 
troops to the Middle East to ameli­
orate the Arabs and Israelis. 
Britain remains alerted at the 
Suez Canal and looks questioning- 
ly at the United States which 
urged them to leave Egypt and so 
grossly miscalculated the dema­
gogue of the Nile.
In search of a solution to this 
dilemma, the administration 
dabbles in talk of boycott that 
would cost this country hun­
dreds of millions of dollars and 
possibly unbalance more the pres­
ently uneven budget. And when 
all attempts fail to establish a 
colonial board of executives, the 
administration will cit last turn to 
the United Nations.
U.S. soldiers, due to their reli­
gious preferences, have been 
denied assignment to Middle East 
bases where Dulles prepares to 
sacrifice American civil rights to 
oil and cash. The same is true of 
citizens desirlig passports to said 
countries. Such infringements on 
citizen rights were denounced 
earlier in this century as acts of 
aggression by the foreign country 
involved. Yet today there is no 
action.
After Korea
And finally, just six months aft­
er the end of the Korean War,
tcontinued on page 12]
Technical
The Carnegie Technical 
needs both experienced and 
inexperienced draftsmen. 
The work will entail several 
hoars of drafting for each is­
sue. If interested call Werner 
Strauss at MU 2-9119.
9 jQjJkji ou Qofe,.
a,,«« .<?
Of course. Most 
everyone does—often.
Because a few moments 
over ice-cold Coca-Cola 
refresh you so.
It’s sparkling with natural goodness, pure and 
wholesome—and naturally friendly to your figure. >
Feel like having a Coke?
SOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
QUAKES STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
6722 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
Wise n’ Witty Varsity Varieties 
Presented By Sorority Girls
Varsity Varieties will be held Friday, October 12, at 3:00 p.m. 
in Morewood Gardens Recreation Room. The themes of the skits 
are proverbs to fit the wise and witty weekend theme.
AEPhi’s proverb is “a Bird in the hand is worth two in the
--------------------------------------------------------------------?bush.” The skit is titled “Dowf
With Feather Bedding.” “AllMorewood Gardens 
Will Be Scene 
Of Open House
On Sunday afternoon, October 
ineS proud parents and boyfriends 
will have their chance to get the 
inside story on college dorm life 
—in Morewood Gardens—that is. 
For the doors of Morewood will 
be open from two o’clock to five 
o’clock for the annual Open House 
in connection with Homecoming 
weekend. Visitors will be welcome 
in every floor and some floors are 
even planning refreshments for 
their guests. All the rooms are 
sure to look their best for this 
occasion for another feature of 
Open House is the selection of the 
prettiest room from each tower. 
These rooms will be chosen earli­
er Sunday afternoon with Mrs. 
Cline, Mrs. Wilson, Ms. Stuart, 
and Dr. Foy serving as judges for 
this contest. The prize—a ten dol­
lar gift certificate for each of the 
four rooms chosen.
aboard to go whistle-stopping with 
AEPhi” and “A campaign slogan 
that has to do with birds,” are 
statements from the skit chairman 
which indicate the nature but not 
the content of the skit.
Chi Omega believes that “Brev­
ity is the Soul of Wit” and pre­
pares to prove it with an expose 
of how to get a man the Penn­
sylvania Dutch way.
What happens to a little boy 
who gets bored with nursery 
rhymes will be explained by the 
DGs. Their proverb is “Variety 
is the Spice of Life.”
The Jazzwood girls are pursued 
by Tech and Dickinson cats in 
“Curiosity Killed the Cat.” The 
Kappas comprise the cast of this 
melodrama.
“In spite of colleges and schools, 
the world remains a ship of fools.' 
Need we say more? The Thetas 
will further elaborate in their skit 
involving the past escapades of 
present sedate alums.
Sigma Kappa elves cavort in 
“There’s Always a First Time.”
“Coke” Is a registered trade-mark.© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
MOTOROLA
(Leader in Electronics)
. .invites you 
to interview for 
positions in
PHOENIX, ARIZ. 
RIVERSIDE, CALIF. 
CHICAGO, ILL.
Our representative 
will be on your campus
October, 30
/ , *
See your placement 
office to arrange 
an appointment
MOTOROLA

---------------------------------------------------

New Cheerleaders 
Strengthen Squad
Six new members of the cheer- 
leading squad were elected Mon­
day, October 1, at 4:30 in the 
women’s gymnasium. At that 
time, Mr. Cratsley, the coach, ap­
plied Barbara Russ captain of 
the squad.
Of the six, four are freshmen, 
two are upper classmen. Mary 
Ellen Sheridan, a junior transfer, 
Alexia Baker, sophomore, and 
Gloria Cofsky and Nancy Sloane, 
freshmen, were the four women
-tf ' ¦¦r.— -----------i-------------------
Tuesday, October 9, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
elected. Two freshmen men also 
joined the group.
Trying out for the six openings 
were 17 students, each of whom 
was required to learn three 
cheers. The seventeen practiced 
every afternoon at 4:30 in the 
women’s gym for a week and a 
half. The veteran cheerleaders 
coached the candidates in the 
cheers and motions.
From last year’s cheerleading 
squad, only four remain. The cap­
tain, Barbara Russ, is a junior 
and the other three, Judy Wahl, 
Amy Emmert, and Julie Mahony, 
are all sophomores.
On Campuswith Max Stakan
(Author of *'Barefoot B»y with Cheek," etc.)
THE SEARCH FOR BRIDEY SIGAFOOS
£ It was a dullish evening at the Theta house. Mary 
Ellen Krumbald was sticking pins in an effigy of the house 
mother; Evelyn Zinsmaster was welding a manhole cover 
to her charm bracelet; Algelica McKeesport was writing 
a letter to Elvis Presley in blood. Like I say, it was a 
dullish evening.
Suddenly Dolores Vladnay stood up and stamped her 
foot. “Chaps,” she said to her sorors, “this is too yawn- 
making! Let’s do something gay and mad and wild and 
different and gasp-making. Anybody got an idea?"
“No,” said the sorors, shaking their little sausage 
(¡^ curls.
“Think, chaps, think!” said Dolores and passed Philip 
Morris Cigarettes to everybody, and if there ever was a 
think-making smoke, it is today’s fresh and zestful and 
yummy Philip Morris. Things come clear when you puff 
a good, clean, natural Philip Morris — knots untie, dilem­
mas dissolve, problems evaporate, cobwebs vanish, fog 
disperses, and the benevolent sun pours radiance on a new 
and dewy world. Oh, happy world! Oh, Philip Morris! 
Oh, regular! Oh, long-size! Oh, get some already!
* One, two, Three, *
Now Geraldine Quidnunc, her drooping brain-cells 
revivified by a good Philip Morris, leapt up and 
cried, “Oh, I have a perfect gasser of an idea! Let’s 
hypnotize somebody !”
“Oh, capital!” cried the sorors. “Oh, tingle-making!” 
“Yes,” said Dolores Vladnay, “it is a splendid idea, 
but hypnosis requires a pliant and malleable mind, and 
we are all so strong and well-adjusted.” 
fc? At this point, in walked a young pledge named Alice 
Bluegown. “Excuse me, mistresses,” said she, “I have 
finished making your beds, doing your homework, and 
ironing your pleats. Will there be anything else?” 
“Yes,” snapped Dolores Vladnay. “When I count to 
three, you will be hypnotized.”
“Yes, excellency,” said Alice, bobbing a curtsey. 
“One, two, three,” said Dolores.
Alice promptly went into a trance.
“Go back,” said Dolores. “Go back to your fifth birth- 
day, back to your birth, to before your birth, to your last 
® incarnation.... Now, who are you?”
“My name is Bridey Sigafoos,” said Alice. “The year 
is 1818, and I am in County Cork.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“How old are you?” asked Dolores.
“I am seven,” said Alice.
“Where is your mother?” asked Dolores.
“She got sold at the fair last year.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Tell us about yourself,” said Dolores. 
fa “I am five feet tall,” said Alice. “I have brown eyes, 
and weigh 3200 pounds.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Isn’t that rather heavy for a girl?” said Dolores. 
“Who’s a girl?” said Alice. “I’m a black and white 
guernsey.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Moo!” said Bridey Sigafoos.
©Max Shulman, 1956
This column it presented by the makers of Philip Morris_ 
^ who don't hold with hypnosis. We want you wide awake when 
you try Philip Morris's natural_ golden, true tobacco I
Phi Kappa Phi
There will be a meeting: of 
the Carnegie Chapter on 
Tuesday, October 9, at 4:00 
p.m. in Room 1112 Engineer­
ing Hall (first floor right.) 
The chief item on the agenda 
is the election of undergradu­
ate students to membership.
Guest Editorships 
On Mademoiselle 
Prizes Of Contest
Mademoiselle is now accepting 
applications from undergraduate 
women for membership in its 
1956-57 College Board.
The magazine’s College Board 
Contest offers a chance (for the 
freshman as well as the senior) 
at winning one of the twenty 
Guest Editorships—a month on the 
staff of Mademoiselle. Those who 
are accepted on the College Board 
do two assignments during the 
college year. Assignments give 
College Board Members a chance 
to write features about life on 
their campus; to submit art work 
and fashion as well as feature, 
fiction or promotion ideas for 
possible use ^in Mademoiselle; to 
develop their critical and creative 
talents; to discover their own 
abilities and job interests; to win 
cash prizes and possibly publica­
tion for outstanding work sub­
mitted during the Contest.
The top twenty guest editors 
will be brought to New York next 
June to help write, edit and illu­
strate the August College issue. 
They will be paid a regular salary 
for their month’s work, plus 
round-trip transportation to New 
York City.
While in New York each guest 
editor takes part in a full calen­
dar of activities. She interviews 
a celebrity in her chosen field, 
visits newspaper offices, fashion 
workrooms, stores and advertis­
ing agencies, besides working 
daily with the Mademoiselle edi­
tor to whom she is assigned.
How To Apply
November 30 is the deadline 
for applying for College Board 
Membership. This is the way you 
do it: Write a 1500-word critique 
of the editorial section in Made­
moiselle’s August 1956 College is­
sue (or a later issue if you can’t 
get August). A good critique will 
tell something about your atti­
tudes, interests, how you express 
yourself. Give first your over-all 
likes and dislikes, suggested 
changes and additions; then con­
centrate on what interests you 
most—fashion, illustration or fic­
tion, for example. In case you 
feel the critique isn’t enough to 
indicate your particular ability, 
send in addition something you 
think will.
Successful candidates will be 
notified of acceptance on the Col­
lege Board before Christmas; the 
first College Board assignment 
will appear in Mademoiselle’s 
January issue.
For further information see 
your Dean of Women or the Aug­
ust, September, October or No­
vember issue of Mademoiselle.
Film
Film Arts Society will present 
“Leonardo da Vinci”, a feature 
film in color, as an introductory 
film tonight at 8:00. Winner of the 
1952 Venice Festival grand prize, 
“Leonardo” shows the life and 
work of the great architect, engi­
neer, painter and inventor. x
The Society will show a pro­
gram of eight distinguished films 
this semester for only $1.75. The 
first regularly scheduled per­
formance will be “Open City” on 
October 18. Also included in the 
semester’s pogram will be the 
original Czech version of “Ecsta- 
cy” with Hedy Lamarr.
Admission to the performance 
tonight will be by purchase of a 
subscription to the Society.
Citeom
Homecoming activities this 
week for Clan members will be­
gin at 7:15 p.m. Friday night, 
when members and their friends 
will meet at Carnegie Union. From 
there the Clan will go over to 
Morewood Gardens to participate 
in the regularly scheduled activi­
ties beginning at 7:30 p.m., after­
wards returning to the Union for 
a mixer lasting until 12 p.m.
There will be a general meet­
ing for all old and new members 
of Citcom Clan on Thursday, Oc­
tober 11. Because of scheduling 
difficulties, one meeting will be 
held at 11:30 and another 12:30 
in the SIA auditorium. Mem­
bers should try to attend one or 
the other of these meetings, as 
roll will be taken.
Playhouse
Pittsburgh Playhouse Director 
Frederick Burleigh has announced 
casting for the hit comedy “Anni­
versary Waltz” which is slated to 
open a three-week run in the 
Crait Avenue Theater on Satur­
day, October 20.
The play, which ran for 17 
months on Broadway and broke 
all long-run records in San Fran­
cisco, is a warm and humorous 
story about a typical American 
couple with teen-age kids. It deals 
with the couple’s fiftieth wed­
ding anniversary which turns out 
to be very hectic. Pape breaks up 
a few TV sets and Mama gets 
very mad when daughter Debbie, 
a progressive school pupil, spills 
some family secrets. Grandpa 
and grandma stick their necks in 
and get them whacked. But the 
ending is happy, as it always is for 
fundamentally decent and likable 
people.
Heading the cast for the Play­
house p roduction are William 
Walsh, Noel Mills, Sally Irwin 
and William Murray. Others fea­
tured include BiLly Rienfield, Pat 
Cratty, Alfreda Barrows, William 
French and Linda Chandler. 
Rounding out the cast are Jose 
Polansky, Harold Sherwood and 
Ron Betzner.
Debate
In order to acquaint members 
with the current topic, the De­
bate Club is holding a discussion 
session each afterhoon of the week 
of October 8 at 4:30 p.m. in J^oom 
229E AH. The purpose of these 
meetings is to compose ideas and 
share information on this year’s 
national topic, foreign aid. The 
club’s faculty advisor, Mr. Edward 
Trainer, will be present to discuss 
debating techniques with new 
members.
In a meeting last week, mem­
bers elected club officers for this 
year. They are: Bob Detig, presi­
dent; Bill Lupinacci, team captain; 
Larry Turner, secretary; Ray 
Benzinger, treasurer.
The first intercollegiate debate 
tournament this season will be at 
Mt. Mercy College, Tuesday eve­
ning, October 30. There will be 
two rounds of debate.
YM-YWCA
At their meeting on Sunday, 
September 30, the YMC > and the 
YWCA planned their program for 
the first semester which will be 
based on the individual. In No­
vember the forum wi}l be con­
cerned with “The Individual and 
the People He Lives With.” In 
December they will discuss “The 
Individual and the People He is 
Closest To,” which will take up 
I problems in marriage and family 
; living. January will find the for­
um interested in the individual in 
relation .to art, music, etc. In ad­
dition to the p rogram already 
set up by the “Y”, plana are being 
made to arrange for various radio 
forums, a Christmas Chapel, and 
Sunday forums with dorm and 
commuter students.
The meeting was presided over 
by Tom Harrison, the president 
of the YMCA and Mary Ellen 
Timmons, president of the YWCA 
Dr. Strick, Miss Ruth Shinn, and 
Mrs. Shuttle were also present 
at the meeting. Dee Denari is 
head of the forum program and 
Nancy Fox is in charge of mem­
bership.
Phi Tau Gamma
Phi Tau Gamma, junior wo­
men’s honorary, has organized its 
tutoring program for the coming 
year. It is designed to help fresh­
man women in particular and 
sophomore women who want help.
Each Phi Tau Gamma member 
will serve as mentor to about 20 
freshman and will guide them in 
any of their academic problems. 
If the freshman student has pro­
blems about a specific subject she 
will be directed to a member who 
has had previous experience with 
the subject.
Freshman and sophomore wo­
men who desire tutoring before 
mid-semester should contact Phi 
Tau Gamma’s, new president, Lois 
Griffin at MU 2-8893 or Caro’ou 
Fidder, new vice president, at MU 
3-2790.
CAMPUS ENDORSED
Honor Winners
for Collegiate Fashion
Cashmere Grali» 
Biucher
BATES SHOE COMPANY. WEBÿTER, MASS.
Awarded 1955 “Key of 
Achievement Award” by 
Student Marketing Institute.
Fashions that are authentic... 
comfort that is genuine.
Most styles $11.95 to $19.95.
Slipper-Free Where Your Foot Bends 
(Style-concealed roominess 
across the ball of the foot) 
SEE THEM AT
\>ki . •National Shoe Co."

---------------------------------------------------

r*ce 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 195«
Homecoming Means Big 
Weekend For Alumni
More than 2,000 alumni will meet again, renew old friendships 
and spin stories of “the old days” this Friday and Saturday when 
Tech celebrates Homecoming. ?----------------------------------------------------------
Scheduled during the weekend 
are the presentation of an oil 
painting of Dr. J. C. Warner to
the school, presentation of the 
record-breaking' Alumni Fund 
check to Dr. Warner, presentation 
of the Alumni Awards, dances, 
dinners, and the Hall of Fame 
football game with Dickinson in 
honor of Howard Harpster, who 
was recently elected to the Na­
tional Football Hall of Fame.
Carnegie Tech's Varsity Clan 
will jump the gun on Homecom­
ing with a dinner dance at the 
Chartiers Country Club in honor 
of Harpster. Baron Elliott’s or­
chestra will provide the music for 
dancing and for background as the 
old grads discuss their great mo­
ments in sports.
Huge Alumni Gift 
Homecoming for the alumni will 
break loose officially Friday with 
receptions, teas, and the class re­
union dinners. The class of 1931 
will honor Dr. and Mrs. Warner 
at their dinner at the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Association Ball Room. 
At the dinner Dr. Warner will be 
presented with an oil portrait of 
himself, painted by the noted oil 
portrait painter, David Phillip 
Wilson, class of ’51, of Chagrin 
Falls, Ohio.’
Saturday morning will be de­
voted to informal meetings of the 
alumni with the deans and de­
partment heads. The Homecoming 
luncheon in the gymnasium on 
'noon Saturday will feature two 
major events. One will be the pre­
sentation of the Alumni Awards 
by T. J. Ess, ’22, executive director 
of the American Association, Iron 
and Steel Engineers in Pittsburgh, 
chairman of the Alumni Awards 
Committee and a past president oi 
the Alumni Federation. The other 
major event will be the presenta­
tion of a check for $212,277.00 
from the Alumni Fund. Mr. Alfred 
S. Andrews, ’26, of Cleveland, 
who is alumni fund chairman will 
make the presentation to Dr. War­
ner. The check is a new record for 
Carnegie Tech and again the larg­
est amount ever contributed to a 
Pittsburgh college by her alumni.
Hall of Fame Award 
During half-time of the Hall of 
Fame Game between Dickinson 
and Carnegie Tech, Captain Tom 
Hamilton of Pittsburgh will pre­
sent a plaque to Howard Harp­
ster, ’30, officially entering Harp­
ster in the National Football Hall 
of Fame. Harpster, who made All- 
American in 1928, is perhaps re­
membered more for his leadership 
and great all-around play on an 
October Saturday in 1926 when he 
led a piarked underdog Tech 
eleven to victory over a great No­
tre Dame team.
The gala proceedings for the 
alumni will close Saturday after­
noon and evening with a Fifth 
Quarter Cocktail Party and din­
ner dance in the Georgian Room 
of the Webster Hall hotel.
First Pep Rally 
Has Good Crowd 
But Lacks Spirit
Led by the Kiltie Band and 
bearing torches, a good sized crowd 
marched up to the Tech bowl 
Friday evening for the first pep 
rally of the year.
Starting at 7:30 in front of 
Morewood Gardens, where band 
and cheerleaders led them in 
songs and cheers, the procession 
wound their way past the fra­
ternities up Forbes, along Marga­
ret Morrison Street, and past Don- 
ner Hall into the Tech Bowl. There 
Coach Baker spoke on the need 
for enthusiasm and encourage­
ment for the team. If Tech didn’t 
beat Johns Hopkins, the chances 
for the other games would look 
dim.
Eight cheerleaders made an ef­
fort to inspire enthusiasm, but, as 
one cheerleader put it after the 
rally, it seemed as though they 
were entertaining the crowd in­
stead of leading it in cheers and 
songs. Lack of knowledge rather 
than lack of enthusiasm appear­
ed to be the cause of non-partici­
pation at the rally.
As a result of the rally, the 
cheerleaders are planning to 
sponsor a cheer-and-song-learn- 
ing campaign, possibly through 
sorority and fraternity competi­
tions. The cheerleaders present at 
the pep rally were Judy Wahl, 
Barbara Russ, Julie Mahoney, 
Amy Emmert, Gloria Cofsky, and 
two new male cheerleaders.
line Sat turdyTh wgofcos S­omH
GABRJEL DOOM
Once every month Gabriel Doom
Locked himself up in a sound-proof room; 
Then he laughed out loud and rocked with glee 
At a life that was funny as life could be!
He laughed at the weather, sunny on Monday 
. . . rainy on Saturday, rainy on Sunday.
He laughed at the news so loaded with grief
that an ax murder came as a pleasant relief! 
He cried, “what with worry, hurry, and 
you couldn’t ask for a funnier life! ”
MORAL: In this fast-moving world 
it’s good to sit loose, relax and enjoy the 
real satisfaction of a real smoke ... a 
Chesterfield. More real flavor, more 
satisfaction and the smoothest smoking 
ever, thanke to Accu-Ray.
Take your pleasure big!
Stnok« for real . . . »moke Ch*it«rfltld!
Rides
Commuters who want rides 
or riders to and from school 
call Wally Saville, SP 1-2008. 
He will provide names of 
commuters from your district.
Newton Appointed 
To Head CIT
News Service
Last summer Mr. Hugh C. New­
ton was appointed editor of the 
Carnegie Tech News Service. Mr. 
Newton recently graduated from 
Washington and Lee University, 
Lexington, Virginia, receiving a 
Bachelor of Arts degree in journ­
alism. While at W&J he was in 
Sigma Delta Chi, national pro­
fessional journalism fraternity, 
and was an editor of the student 
news program on station WREL.
The new Tech editor, who will 
be responsible for all news ema­
nating from Carnegie, received 
his technical experience while 
serving with the United States Air 
Force as an electronics technician 
during the Korean War. In 1955 
Mr. Newton served as a reporter 
on the staff of the Danville Bee, 
Danville, Va.
Mr. Newton is the son of Mr. 
and Mrs. Avery C. Newton of 
Sherwood Hall, Pittsburgh. He is 
a graduate of Dobbs Ferry High 
School, Dobbs Ferry, New York.
TX Combo
Several musically inclined Theta Xi’s performing to the 
of Morewood Gardens last week.
Displays—
[continued from page 2] 
Sigma Nu's “Dead men tell no 
tales.” Unfortunately neither will 
their display chairman. He mum­
bled something about revolution­
ary, principles of cubism, and neo- 
classicism before he could contain 
his enthusiasm sufficiently to re­
tire under a cloak of secrecy in a 
fit of gleeful chuckling.
Beta Sig’s have as their theme 
“Best things come in small pack­
ages.” This will be illustrated in 
animated cartoon form with devils 
and angels (we Techites no doubt) 
involved in the action.
The Delts may be the ones who 
chopped down the tree between 
Maggie Murph and Donner Hall 
which Luis De la Macorra (our 
Scotchman) was worried'about m 
his column last week as their 
proverb is “Little strokes fell 
great oaks.”
Kappa Sig’s will use lighting to 
spotlight five cycles of a satiriza- 
tion of “Curiosity killed the cat.”
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Roger Lindblom (left) discussing aS.D.
“I’m learning more every day—and like it”
Roger Lindblom, B.S. in General Engi­
neering, Iowa State College, ’49, is today 
District Plant Superintendent for the 
11,000 square miles of the Huron, South 
Dakota, district.
“The openings are there,” says Roger, 
“and the telephone company trains you 
to fill them. I joined Northwestern Bell 
in 1950 and spent one year learning pole 
line and cable construction. This, plus 
short periods in other departments, gave 
me a good telephone background.
“My experience really grew when I 
became an installer-repairman, then a 
construction crew foreman, and, in 1952, 
Wire Chief at South Sioux City, Ne­
braska. There I was responsible for the 
3500 dial phones that served the town.
In March of 1954 I went to Grand Island, 
Nebraska, to help supervise dial conver­
sion projects in that district. Everything 
I’d learned to date came in handy on 
that job.
“A year later I went to Omaha on a 
staff assignment, and in March, 1956, I 
moved up to my present position.
“I head a group responsible for install­
ing and maintaining Plant equipment in 
the Huron district. We supervise ordering 
and distributing supplies, and I’m re­
sponsible for personnel and employment. 
I work with other department heads in 
the administration of our district.
“Each assignment I’ve had has been 
broader than the last, and believe me, the 
more I learn, the better I like ij.M
Roger Lindblom is one of many young men who 
are finding rewarding careers in Bell Telephone 
Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, West­
ern Electric and Sandia Corporation. See your 
placement officer for more information on career 
opportunities in the Bell Telephone System.
B*ll
Telephon
System

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October t, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN*—Page 5
Chest To Take Place 
Of Many Single Drives
Campus Chest, the annual united charity drive on the Tech cam­
pus, begins its week long campaign Monday, October 28. Its goal: 
one hundred percent participation among the student body. 
at Campus Chest is designed to unite all three charity drives at Tech 
i>iid to enable the student to con-4------------------------------------------------—----------------
tribute at one time to the various 
social services, medical, relief, 
and student welfare agencies 
which ordinarily make their ap­
peals at different times through­
out the year. Solicitations will be 
conducted on a personal basis 
whereby each student will be con­
tacted individually according to his 
$lace of residence.
The extensive machinery of 
Campus Chest was put into opera­
tion early in September by the 
Chairman of the campaign, Eve­
lyn Alessio. Under the auspices 
of the C.I.T. Student Congress, 
the drive has been worked out in 
minute details by Miss Alessio 
and her Board of Directors, which 
/<ncludes: solicitations, Tom Har­
dison; education, Jo Lacey, Allan 
Hodel; publicity, Julie Nash; fi­
nancial, Bill Grove; special events, 
Mary Jane Stevens; purchasing, 
Mike Bann, Fran Bebic. Secretary 
to the group is Carol Sooby.
One of the chief premises of the 
Campus Chest Organization is 
that it is the privilege of every 
student to know exactly how each 
dollar of his contribution shall 
ura spent. With this in mind Cam­
pus Chest has prepared a per­
centage breakdown illustrating the 
amount each agency included in 
the drive shall receive:
World University Service—35%. 
During 1953-55 hundreds of des­
titute students have found new 
homes in WUS-built hostels and 
dorms. In Beirut, Lebanon, WUS 
contributions made possible the 
opening of an International Stu-f
ent Center. WUS provides schol- 
rships and sets up loan funds for 
the needy students; it plays a
Varied Program 
Planned By CRA 
For This Year
By Carol Soobyf
 Instead of spending an extra 
our in Skibo on Tuesday, why 
don’t you attend the asemblies 
held in Fine Arts Theater? This 
year’s programs as set up by the 
Committee on Religious Affairs 
have been designed to appeal to 
all students. They will be of a 
varied nature. Some are concern­
ed with religious subjects; some 
with literary topics; and others 
with current events.
The first series, which is now 
naif completed, is comprised of a 
set of four programs centered 
around the theme “Religion and 
the Political Choice.” Last week’s 
assembly dealt with the Middle 
East; this morning’s program, 
“Segregation,” was followed by 
a student faculty luncheon and 
question period in the Morewood 
Blue Room. Next Tuesday, Dr. 
Frederick May Eliot will discussf
curity and civil liberties. Com- 
[continued on page 11]
Selective Service
All young men are required 
by law to register for Selec­
tive Service within five days 
of their 18th birthday. Stu­
dents whose permanent ad­
dress is in the Pittsburgh area 
will register at the Local 
w Board for their district. Stu­
dents whose permanent ad­
dress is outside the Pittsburgh 
area may register at the Ful­
ton Building, Third Floor, 107 
Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, and 
their registration will be for­
warded to the proper Local 
Board. Questions concerning 
Selective Service matters will 
be answered by Mr. Tipker, 
«AH. 150.
major role in the field of student 
health with' free medical care, 
sanatorium, and health centers. 
Also, it helps to meet the critical 
need for textbooks and study ma­
terials abroad through the support 
of mimeograph projects by which 
hundreds of different texts are 
reproduced.
United Fund—15%. In conjuc- 
tion with the consolidated charity 
drive of Pittsburgh', the Tech stu­
dent contributing to Campus Chest 
will automatically be supporting 
social agencies of the United Fund, 
which includes Community Chest, 
Red Cross, the Salvation Army, 
and many others.
National Scholarsiiip Service 
and fund for Negro students—10%. 
The welfare of other students is 
of utmost concern to Campus 
Chest. NSSFNS has helped enroll 
3,300 students in inter-racial col­
leges and has granted almost $1,- 
000,000 in scholarships to both 
Negro and white students in a 
two-way integration program. The 
[continued on page 10]
Rabbi Addresses 
Americans Panel 
On Segregation
Rabbi Henry Fischel, newly ap­
pointed director of the Hillel Foun­
dation at Tech, Pitt and Chatham, 
spoke on the seregation issue in 
the South at the September 30 
meeting of the Panel of Ameri­
cans.
A member for eight years of 
the Committee on Human Rela­
tions at the University of Ala­
bama, Dr. Fischel repotted espe­
cially on the Autherine Lucy in­
cident which focused nation-wide 
attention on the reaction of the 
South to the recent Supreme Court 
ruling on segregation in state- 
supported schools.
Dr. Fischel laid emphasis on the 
relatively new weapon of boycot­
ting, used effectively only by the 
whites, with the exception of Ne­
gro boycotting of public utilities 
such as the recent bus strike.
When confronted with the idea 
that by refusing to acquiesce to 
the Supreme Court ruling, and al­
lowing rioting and boycott to run 
wild in the South, they were pre­
venting industry from moving in, 
many white citizens retorted that 
they would rather go without shoes 
than abandon the old standards 
of segregation.
Much of anti-Negro feeling, Dr.
Fischel is convinced, has its birth 
in the fear of the rural white pro­
letariat that the colored man will 
outdistance him economically, and 
eventually, socially.
Conservative southerners, Dr. 
Fischel observed, have acquired a 
set of complex defense mechan­
isms to explain their unyielding 
attitude. They have abandoned the 
simple idea that the white race is 
superior to the Negro, and now 
cite the Bible as a final authority 
on segregation, point to the fail­
ure of India as a world power be­
cause of racial intermingling, and 
finally claim that the Negro is 
“better off” under his benevolent 
white master.
To this last claim, Dr. Fischel 
asserted that the Negro enjoys a 
position in the South somewhat 
similar to that of the family dog. 
His master will let no one kick 
his pet, but he himself feels free 
to do anything he wishes; and woe 
betide the foolish dog if he sits 
on his master’s chair.
Southerners claim that they are 
taking care of the racial problem 
slowly, in their own way, and 
want no interference from the 
North. Denying the validity of 
this statement, Dr. Fischel claims 
anti-segregation organizations and 
educated public opinion were ur­
gently needed to solve the problem. 
He stated as definite steps in the 
right direction the hourly, minimal 
wage, and the gradual desegrega-
Maggie Murphs 
Have Netv Lounge 
On First Floor
With the opening last week of 
their new student lounge, Maggie 
Murphs will no longer have to 
make the tiresome hike to the 
basement or the fourth floor for 
between class “breaks.”
Located in the north-east wing 
of the first floor, the lounge was 
a former classroom and has been 
remodeled for student use.
The new addition features beige 
and dark brown upholstered 
couches and chairs, low modern 
tables, and plenty of ashtrays. 
Asphalt tile and textured walls, 
add utility and complement a 
color scheme designed to provide 
a casual, comfortable atmosphere.
tion of the border states, which is 
pushing the frontier deeper into 
the South.
Summarizing his points, Dr. 
Fischel emphasized the necessity 
of handling racial problems, 
whether in the deep South or here 
in Pittsburgh, with objectivity, 
patience, and effective planning. 
The speaker for tolerance must 
face the possibility of often being 
alone in his position and conse­
quently tempted to project his 
own frustration and personal ani­
mosities into the fight.
"irs
TOASTED"
to taste 
better!
DON'T JUST STAND THERE
STICKLE! MAKE *25
Sticklers are simple riddles with two-word rhyming an­
swers. Both words must have the same number of sylla­
bles. (No drawings, please!) We’ll shell out $25 for all 
we use—and for hundreds that never see print. So send 
stacks of ’em with your name, address, college and class 
to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER
CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
©A. T. Co. _^lineS orMKRICA’l LK AO I NO KAKUFACTUtll Or CIGABBTTBS

---------------------------------------------------

r»gt I—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday. October f, 1956
Editorial
The College Education
It was our intention to maintain an op­
timistic outlook in our editorials—positive 
psychology. However, after only three weeks 
of school, we notice a decided lack of balance 
in the interests of the student body, one 
which demands comment of a somewhat 
negative nature.
Only last week we learned that there 
are 3282 students on campus. Yet there must 
have been less than 20 at the assembly last 
Tuesday. These assembles are selected with 
great consideration for the student interest 
and are provided solely for the enjoyment 
and information of the students. Many stu­
dents have admitted when asked what they 
think the assemblies are a good institution.
Again, the representatives to the new Stu­
dent Congress will have a major influence on 
all the activities at Tech, including their fin­
ancing. They’re the ones who’ll decide on com­
pulsory fees such as the Student Union fee.
But some of the representatives were elected 
by less than ten members of their department.
This week they elect their officers, and wTe‘re 
sure that it won’t occur to the people whom 
they represent to mention their choice of presi­
dent—yet this is a representative government. _________________
Oh, there may be some enthusiasm within the sororities 
and fraternities over such crucial activities as Homecoming 
displays and skits. We’re a little skeptical even of that—at 
Varsity Varieties meeting the girls spend more time gab­
bing about a thousand other insignificant subjects, and the 
display builders usually manage to work their way to Harry’s. 
Equally banal entertainments are pursued by independents 
around campus. The commuters tear frantically to get home 
as soon as possible—if they have time between classes, they 
spend it over the bridge in Skibo. Too many of them are 
oblivious to the hard work Citcom members are doing
Ask any of these people what they came to college for and 
they will tell you they came for an education. We questioii just 
what kind of education they get talking about cars or dates over 
coffee, how much those introverts who lock themselves in their 
dorm rooms to pour over the books really learn. To us a college 
educated person was always supposed to be cultivated and in­
telligent, one who could speak with assurance on a variety of 
interesting topics, not the least of these politics, and national 
and international affairs.
A person who can take shorthand, bake a cake, or talk in 
abstractions about topology is not, in our opinion, a truly edu­
cated person. If this is the limit of his knowledge, he is not 
worthy of a degree of any sort—at least we hope a B.S. isn’t 
that inferior to an A.B.!
If, in a presidential year, there seems to be a little more 
worthwhile interest on campus, it is still far too little. And 
yet there are any number of organizations whose purpose is 
to provide interesting and educational activities for the stu­
dents. The Debate Club, publications, Panel of Americans, 
and YM & YWCA all offer students a chance to learn some­
thing outside the classroom, and to have fun while doing 
so. The CRA, the “Y”, and the AAUP, and the English de­
partment each provide a series of lectures throughout the 
year on interesting and currently important topics. A wide 
selection of plays is presented by the drama department, 
and unusual and entertaining music programs by the music 
department.
With the number of cultural opportunities on campus it is 
inexcusable for a Tech student to graduate without having many 
cultivated interests. We’re afraid that each June a majority of 
the seniors do. Certainly this doesn’t speak well for Tech, but 
more important, it means the student has wasted four years of 
excellent opportunity. The problem is sufficiently serious to 
warrant a lot of thought from the entire student body.
TT\ori:trv
Letters
Old Guard Speaks
Editor, the dryerTh
It is very welcome news that the dryerT w7ill 
feature articles and news-stories concerning the na­
tional and congressional elections being held this 
fall. It is a good sign that the apathetic attitude 
so prevalent among Tech students in recent years 
is on the wane. , >
Nobody should dispute the right of the dryerT 
to adopt any editorial stand it wishes concerning 
the coming elections. But everyone should object 
to deliberate coloring of the news. Please, keep 
opinions confined to editorials and out of the news. 
I refer specifically to the October 2 “News Re­
view” written by Marjo King. Attributing the feel­
ing that “only Ike can save us” to the Republican 
party and stating that “Nixon (is working hard) 
to erase the impression he made in the ’52 and ’54 
campaigns” are not only conjectures on the part 
of the reporter, but I strongly feel are false ones 
as well.
R. S.
Old Guard
wgteoyfc soe­h — .
dm­ coHy.­ Hc­g uoy em­ s­Oc b­kt­O u­reHy­g 
tT em­ ,.eop­y ^ tccH­ ou dMbdMs Orc em­ s­O 
Goy1 dt2­cS rTg rT: 3oatTtoTc0 ry­ gyrOT uyo2 
emre ara­yS Otem To rggtetoTrC .o22­Te uyo2 em­ 
y­oaye­y$
s­Oc ceoyt­c rTg Toe ­gteoytrCc O­y­ y­u­yy­g 
eoS rTg ­k­y: ay­.rHetoT Orc er1­T eo rkotg ptrc­g 
c­C­.etoT ou em­ tTuoy2retoT uoHTg em­y­$
dm­ y­aoye­y mrc To arye: ruutCtretoT rTg tc 
rT9toHc eo 2r­ .C­ry emre em­ s­Oc b­kt­O tc in 
no Or: tTe­yay­etk­ tT aHyaoc­$ Be tc r k­y: .oTD
g­Tc­g y­cH2­ ou TretoTrC rTg tTe­yTretoTrC T­OcS 
er1­T uyo2 Omre O­ u­­C tc em­ 2oce y­CtrpC­ coHy.­ 
rkrtCrpC­$
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2 4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis­
ing Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
.......................... " "" ' ......." ~~ ' ¦ • iMaM(in{ Editor ........... ......................................................... .......................... Stephanie Mackay
titfitiv« Editor ....................................................................................................... Robert Russell
Associate Editor ............................................................................................. ................. Marjo King
Associate Editor  .........  ............ ............... ............ Richard Fox
Business Manager ................................................................................................ Martin Ostroff
Newt Editor—Ann Forest. Sports Editor—Robert Hoppe, Cop; Editor—Edwin 
Roger«, Assistant Basinets Manager—Robert Sorkin. Advertising Manager—Robert 
Peters. Circulation Manager—Harley Bern bach. Secretary—Joan Seidel.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at
Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1025.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by Natinal Advertising, Inc.
Commuter Activities
Editor, the dryerTh
For too long a time a situation has existed on 
the Carnegie Tech campus which has done much 
to retard the development among commuters of a 
feeling of “belonging” to CIT. This situation has 
been recognized and cited by many as “student 
apathy.”
Formerly on campus there existed two factions 
known as Greeks and Independents. After heated 
rivalry over elections, Independents were more or 
less disbanded.. However, the feeling still exists 
among many commuters that they are not regard­
ed as part of school life, and that the school is 
oriented in favor of Greek and Dorm students.
On the other hand, the governing bodies on 
campus seem to believe that except for fraternity 
and sorority members, commuters in general are 
not interested in participating in extra-curricular 
activities.
An interested group of independent commuters 
is out to prove that commuters do wish to par­
ticipate in campus activities. A petition, is being 
circulated on which they hope to get at least five 
hundred commuters’ names as evidence of com­
muter interest. The context of the petition follows: 
“We, the commuters of CIT, in order to 
demonstrate that we wish to take a more ac­
tive part in the extra-curricular activities of
Pro
News Review
By Marjo King
Entering the final month of the presidential 
campaign last week, both Republicans and Demo­
crats have modified their various points of argu­
ment, basing their decisions on grass roots surveys 
and the manner in which the public has received^ 
the campaign so far.
Both are making more personal appearances. 
Eisenhower is expanding his schedule of speeches 
and reached Pittsburgh yesterday for a TV ap­
pearance and a motorcade around the city.
The Republicans are pointing up Eisenhower’s 
leadership and emphasizing his non-partisan ap­
peal. The four-year record of peace, although at­
tacked by Stevenson, who claims that the Com*,.tmunists are making ever-increasing gains in the • 
East to the blindness of the Administration, is the 
second most important keynote.
With Kefauver covering the Farm Belt, the 
F.oTetTH­g oT arR­ _^l
Campus A Mess
Editor, the dryerTh
It appears to me that an institute with a de­
partment of architecture that is rated as one of; 
the finest in the country and which strives for a 
high degree of design standards would want its 
own campus to reflect its quality. This quality of 
building and organization is one which the ad­
ministration should be proud of and one which 
should establish a precedent to be admired by stu­
dents, faculty and alumni and inspire prospective 
students. ’* -
With this in mind, I cannot understand Tech’s 
present and future building program. Specifically,
I cannot conceive:
1. The reason for the school’s hiring architects 
for our future buildings whose design standards 
do not meet those of our own architectural pro­
fessors.
2. The reason for the school’s not hiring just , 
one architect instead of a few. One designer could 
coordinate all the new buildings to be similar irt 3 
character and harmonious with the existing cam­
pus buildings. Individual architects have their 
own ideas. Therefore, the use of a number of 
architects will result in a cacophony of character 
and appearance. The original campus buildings 
were designed by just one architect with the re­
sult that they have some harmonious quality and 
character. But the new campus additions, each , 
one having been created by a different designer, 
are not only incongruous with the original build­
ings but are also incongruous with each other.
3. The reason for the administration’s failure 
to acquire the services of one outstanding architect 
who would uphold the department of architec­
ture’s design criteria. Architecture is one pro­
fession in which there is no premium paid for 
quality. It would cost no more to employ the 
services of a superior architect than it would a . 
few mediocre ones. The cost for services rendered 
is determined on the basis of a specific percentage 
commission.
I am concerned about the appearance and effi­
cient functioning of oxir campus, and I am sure 
that everyone who has any feeling of pride in our 
school is equally concerned. I sincerely hope it’s 
not too late to do something about the present sit­
uation. I would like to return as an alumnus to 
see a campus of which I can be proud and which 
is befitting the quality of our Institute.
Respectfully,
John Serge Fisher 
Architecture ’58 '
the school and we want the representation that 
our-numbers merit, state that we are willing 
to spend one or two hours per week participat­
ing in some extra-curricular activity.”
If some interested commuter would like to cir­
culate one of these petitions, all he or she has to 
do is copy the above paragraph onto a piece of 
paper and circulate it. The commuters signing the 
petition should put their name, hours per week 
they are willing to participate in extra-curricular 
activities (one, two, or more), and their telephone 
number.
When one side of the sheet is full of names, it 
should be taken to the Dean of Students’ office. 
There is no limit to the number of names or peti­
tions that any one person may circulate.
It is sincerely hoped that these petitions will 
encourage a feeling of closer harmony among com­
muters and the rest of the school. At least some­
one has made a start. |
An Interested Commuter

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 9, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
----------------------------------------------------------------——-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fourth Quarter T. D. Downs J. H. U.
Course Record 
Set At Geneva 
By Tech Student
By Dick Swaney
The good Carnegie Tech Tar­
tans lost a heartbreaker to Gen­
eva’s Covies at Be&ver Falls on 
Friday, as Coach Bob Carman’s 
thinclads chased their arch rivals 
over the 4.1 mile wooded course. 
The record breaking performance 
of Tech’s Eric Ottervik went for 
naught as Geneva placed seven of 
ti f first ten finishers to win 28-31. 
The ‘Runt” lowered the previous 
mark to 21 minutes 16 seconds in 
easy fashion and breezed home 
the individual winner. His only 
challenge came from teammate 
Larry Bryant who finished a 
strong second behind Ottervik.
Ottervik Wins
A large and enthusiastic crowd 
of Geneva fans gave the Tartans 
a well deserved pat on the back. 
% Vs Covies were the big favorite 
and the fans had turned out for a 
big show. The odds-on individual 
favorite was Geneva’s Homer 
Weaver, the Upper Darby Darling 
who has long been Tri-State king 
of the hills and dales.
The crowd buzzed with antici­
pation and excitement waiting for 
Homer to stride home, but when 
all eyes focused on the East a dead 
silence settled over the jammed 
te-»'e a c h e r s, and only the easy 
scratch of spikes on cinders was 
audible. Then, as Ottervik neared 
the tape, the fans stood and ap-
Leroy McElwhinny eludes two Johns Hopkins tacklers while 
skirting end for Tech.
plauded for the East Pittsburgher 
who had just set their new course 
record, seconds later, Larry Bry­
ant breezed over the finish line 
and the crowd, still expecting 
Weaver, knew that they had un­
derrated the Smoky City boys.
The real race came between 
Tech’s Arnie Olds, and Geneva’s 
Brooker and Palenschat. Olds, who 
co-captains Tech along with Larry 
Bryant, was in the third slot, well 
in front of the Covies with only 
one half mile to go, when he took 
a wrong turn which eventually 
cost Tech the meet and Olds per­
sonal glory. Arnie had to retrace 
his steps to the original point of
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST 
For Games on October 13, 1956
Team
Carnegie Tech
Penn State
JT/racvse
Brown
Cornell
Pennsylvania
Michigan
Illinois
Minnesota
Notre Dame
Iowa
1 orth Carolina
Florida
Texas
Washington
ScoreTeam
Dickinson
Holy Cross
West Virginia
Dartmouth
Harvard
Princeton
Army
Ohio State
Northwestern
Purdue
Wisconsin
Georgia
Rice
Oklahoma
Oregon
Score
NAME .................................................... DEPT.CLASS
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
[All Work Done On Our Premises
Campus Cleaners
error and then fight the Genevers 
for the finish line. The hard-work­
ing Olds raced with the Covies 
only to be denied as the harriers 
from Geneva inched him out for 
third and fourth.
Big factors in Tech’s subse­
quent loss were the absence of Tom 
Harder, a newcomer from Swiss- 
vale who has been suffering from 
a badly bruised thigh muscle, and 
the injured ankle of Lee Hubbard, 
a freshman who shows great 
promise. Problem child Bill Witt- 
man, last year’s freshman spark­
plug failed to appear when the 
team left for Beaver Falls. *
What will happen later? As­
sistant coach Bryant said, ‘‘We’ll 
get ’em at Tri-State.” This week, 
the thinclads take on West Vir­
ginia, perennial Southern Confer­
ence champs on Wednesday at the 
Schenley Park course.
' By Stan Zionts
A last period one yard plunge by quarterback John Tucci gave 
Carnegie Tech their first victory of the 1956 season. The Blue Jays 
of Johns Hopkins bowed to Tech 19-13. Outstanding in Saturday’s 
contest were halfback Tommy Briner, who ran up a total of 104 
yards gained running in addition#- 
to scoring twice and-quarterback 
John Tucci, who steered the Scots 
to their fifth straight victory over 
the Baltimore squad.
Tech won the toss and elected 
to receive. The scoring was open­
ed when right halfback Leroy 
McElhinny ran 30 yards to place 
the pigskin on the Johns Hopkins 
five-yard line. Tommy Briner, on 
the very next play, carried the 
ball around right end, putting the 
Scots into the lead 6-0. John Tucci 
attempted the extra point, Briner 
holding. Tech kicked off to the 
Blue Jays.
After four downs Johns Hop­
kins punted. In the next series of 
downs John Tucci threw a beau­
tiful pass to left end Larry Cas- 
sett. A gain of 45 yards resulted, 
placing Tech on the 14, first and 
ten. Three plays later, halfback 
Tommy Briner ran from the one- 
yard line for the Tartans’ second 
tally. Big Ken Ficery attempted 
the extra point, Tucci holding.
The score at the end of the first 
quarter, Tech 12, Johns Hopkins 0.
Blue Jays Score
After a Tech fumble and a punt 
exchange, Briner ran back to the 
Tech 29 - yard line. Tech was 
awarded a 15-yard penalty for 
illegal use of the hands, and de­
spite three attempts were unable 
to drive back 25 yards. Tucci 
punted to Cliff Harding, who 
brought, the ball back to the Tech 
45. On the next play, Fullback 
Ernie Bates, behind the beautiful 
blocking of his Johns Hopkins’ 
teammates ran 45 yards for the 
first Blue Jay score. With Dick
Auffarth holding, Harding at­
tempted the extra point. It was 
no good. After the Johns Hopkins 
kickoff, John Zinni returned the 
ball to the Tartan 42. Tucci on a 
quarterback sneak gained the 
Tartans another first and ten on 
the Hopkins 47. Four downs later 
Tucci punted out of bounds on the 
Hopkins 15-yard line. The other 
Johns Hopkins socre came when 
Tucci’s pass was intercepted by 
Bob Edwards on the 35. Edwards 
ran 65 yards with Cliff Harding 
converting the extra point. This 
put Johns Hopkins into the lead, 
13-12.
Second Half
The third period saw a number 
of punts and fumbles, most of the 
action being confined to the mid­
field area. In the fourth period 
McElhinny returned a punt to the 
Tech 45. Tucci’s pass to Cassett 
began Carnegie’s downfield march. 
A number of nice plays including 
two runs by Tommy Briner, ran 
the ball to the Hopkins three. On 
a quarterback sneak, John Tucci 
plunged through the line for the 
Tartans third tally. Bob Hammer 
converted the extra point. The 
game ended on the Black and 
Blue’s 24-yard line with Tech in 
scoring position. Final score: Te%h 
19, Johns Hopkins 13.
Statistics
TARTAN HOPKINS
15 .... First Downs Rushing .... 3
4 ___ First Downs Passing .... 2
19 ........... Total First Downs ........... S
255 .... Yards Gained Rushing .... 44
66 .... Yards Gained Passing .... 31
321 .... Total Yards Gained .... 75
[continued on page SJ
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS ...................................................................................
A _vPK dmtceC­ :­rypoo1 OtCC p­ rOryg­g eo em­ OtTT­y ou em­ 
dMbdMsf— O­­1C: uooeprCC .oTe­ce$
K b­rg em­ .oTe­ce yHC­c p­CoO rTg utCC tT and g­aocte emtc .oHaoT 
in the tTeyrVc.mooC 2rtC po9S rggy­cc­g eo em­ dMbdMs$ MCC .oHaoTc 
2Hce be ­Te­y­g p: 2tgTtRme *ytgr: eo p­ ­CtRtpC­ uoy em­ uoCCoOtTR 
gr:fc Rr2­c$
Contest Rules
1. Only. CIT students will be eligible vo compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score
of* the game. Entries will be judged on the number of Correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
enounced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
r fl. Winner of each week’s contest wiH receive a 1957 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable at the time of publication.
MS or PhD
Physicists
Chemists
Mathematicians
Who have joined tlie Operations Evaluation Group 
of Massachusetts Institute of Technology have found 
that a career in Operations Research offers:
• Challenging Research
• Academic Atmosphere
• Competitive Salaries
• Liberal Fringe Benefits
• Paid Leave For Study or Research
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Friday, October 12, 1956 
Operations Evaluation iw roup
Division of Defense Laboratories 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
À
*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 195«
.Sf jortscope Br Don McCle,land
In any intramural sport, a successful season is a result of many 
factors, among which are team cooperation, publicity, school plan­
ning, and competent officiating. In the first three respects we get 
consistently good results, but the officiating seems to be a bugaboo 
that mars many a game. The present football season is no excep­
tion. Poor officiating has been prevalent since the opening game.
The root of the trouble lies in the officials’ apathy, ignorance 
of rules, misinterpretation of terminology, partiality, and lack of 
experience. Apathy and partiality are not both present in an official 
at any particular game. When someone officiates a game between two 
squads in another league than his team’s he cares little who wins. 
Conversely, handling his team or some rival, the official has a hard 
time using fair judgment all of the time. The rules require that a 
team provide one official for each of its games. In the middle of last 
week the officials were switched to a game in another league on 
the same day. Neither method has proved satisfactory.
Most officials do not know many of the rules applying to touch 
football, and must find them in their rule sheet when a situation oc­
curs, thus wasting time. However, this not a major deficiency; a 
lack of understanding of the terminology used in the rules is. For 
example, the rules state that clipping is punishable by a 15 yard 
penalty, but exactly what is clipping? Here lies the vast gulf be­
tween good and bad officiating. Even more ambiguous are the defini­
tions of unnecessary roughness and pass interference. Clearly, there 
is room for improvement here. Experience is a nebulous factor 
about which little can be done, except to attempt to get the same 
officials back for two or more years.
The consequences of the above discrepancies are many. The 
ill will directed toward an official at the end of a poorly managed 
game sometimes reaches staggering proportions. This feeling may 
be carried over to a later day if it is vehement enough. Fraternity 
rivalry is heightened in a dispute involving interpretation of a rule 
by a misinformed official. The anger and harsh words that arise are 
poor substitutes for jjlean competion and may taint personal and 
fraternity relationships for a long time after the incident is for­
gotten. This residual anger is by far the worst by-product of our 
officiating dilemna and should be eliminated as much as possible.
A possible solution for some of the problems would be a clinic 
sponsored by the IM department under Mr. Birdy. It could be held 
for a wreek and a half prior to the start of the season. Each team 
would be required to send two men, including the team manager. 
Included in the clinic would be a thorough definition of the terms 
used in the rules and an explanation of officiating procedure.
IM Football
All equipment not returned 
by noon of the day following: a 
same must be paid for by the 
team responsible for it.
Cross Country Schedule
Oct. 10........................West Virginia*
Oct. 16........................................ Case*
Oct. 20..........................Slippery Rock
Oct. 26........................ Westminster*
Oct. 30............................ Grove City
Nov. 2.................... Tri-State Meet
*Home meets
Tartans Face 
Dickinson Next
With two contests under their 
belt, Coach Eddie Baker’s squad 
is preparing for the annual Home­
coming game. *This year’s classic 
is being played against Dickinson 
College of Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
Coach Burton Pietz will bring 
his Red Devils to Forbes Field 
for the first time, when they tangle 
with Carnegie this Saturday. Kick- 
off is at 2 p.m. This Homecoming 
game will see much festivity, in­
cluding the queen. A tribute to 
Howard Harpster, Carnegie’s only 
member of the football Hall of 
Fame, is planned.
This is the second meeting be­
tween the two teams, Carnegie 
winning last year 26-0.
Football—
[continued from arR­ 7]
15 .;.... Forward Passes ...........14
4 ............. Passes Completed ............. 3
2 ........... Passes Intercepted ........... 1
12 .Yards Interceptions Returned . 65
3 ........................ Punts ........................ 6
25 .... Punting Average .... 37-5/6
5 ................ Punts Returned ................ 2
43 —.. Yards Punts Returned .... 23
3 .............Kickoffs Returned................ 4
56 .. Yards Kickoffs Returned .. 95
4 ...................... Penalties ..................... 6
40 ........... Yards Penalized ............40
4 ...................... Fumbles ...................... 3
0 . Opponents Fumbles Recovered. 3
CARNEGIE TECH 
Ends—Ficery, Love, Hickox, Cassett. 
Tackles—Ramsey, Chalupa, Benner, Ham­
mer, Grace.
Guards—Capul, Tagliavini, Bassett, Bale- 
na. Gray, Stainaker, Bonner.
Centers—Temmel, Ausländer. Hammond. 
Backs—Tucci, Briner, Majeski, Schmitz, 
Myers, McElhinny, Knapp, Quatse, Vantine.
JOHNS HOPKINS
Ends—Edwards, Civilett, Widheim, Har- 
rall, Halpert.
Tackles—McGraw, Wright, MaCauley, Us- tach.
Guards—Holstein, Frenda, Tnkersley. 
Center—Littman.
Backs—Harding, Auffarth, Carr, War­
field, Kady, Laubach, Schwartz; Klaes- 
ius, Carr, Bates, Railey.
Carnegie Tech ...........12 0 0 7—19
Johns Hopkins ........ 0 13 0 0—13
Touchdowns—Briner, 2 (5-yards around 
end, 1-yard over guard). Bates (55-yards 
over center). Edwards (65 yards with in­
tercepted pass). Tucci (1-yard sneak). 
Extra points—Harding. Hammer. Miss ex­
tra points—Ficerry, Tucci, Harding.
Referees—A .C. Wildman. Umpire— 
Lou Demmier. Linesman—P. S. Temple­
ton. Field Judge—R. A. Boll.
fiAakl ktiMdS : ,
WINSTON heads the class on flavor !
¦ Try America’s favorite filter smoke! 
You’ll like the full, rich taste. You’ll like 
the Winston filter, too. It does the job so
smoothly and effectively that the flavor 
really comes through — so you can enjoy 
it! For finer filter smoking, get Winston!
R. J. REYNOLD® 
TOBACCO CO., 
WIMftTON.ftALBM. ¦ .
Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette I
IN J930, AT THE 
"ROSE B0WL 
EDDIE WAS A PITT 
QUAOTERBACK UNDER 
THE IATE DR. SUTHERIAN0
HE WAS BILI mu's
ASSISTANT FÖRTHE 
mdCIT-rn , CUGARUOWL
TEAM...
Ç)n ¿jeidfee
NOW a practicing DENTIST 
HE BECAME MEAD COACH IN
...im...
Carnegie Tech Coaching Staff 
Backed By Experience At Pitt ®
?To the unlettered observer, a 
football coach is a large brown, 
nondescript mass who stalks rest­
lessly in front of, and occasiona­
lly sits upon, the player’s bench. 
Further investigation shows, how­
ever, that this little known ani­
mal resembles very closely a hu­
man being. CIT’s coaching staff, in 
fact, actually consists of five real 
men and a trainer (also human), 
who double as normal citizens 
when no^ leading the Tartans.
A Product of Pitt
Dr. Eddie Baker, head coach, is 
a practicing' dentist, loading his 
Carnegie chores, which consume 
about 25 hours per week, on top 
of a full office schedule which 
shortens only one hour a day dur­
ing the grid season. Dr. Baker is 
a product of that tall grey institu­
tion on the other side of Forbes 
Street, having received his dent­
istry. degree there in 1932. He 
served as regular quarterback
for the Panthers of 1928-30 un­
der the late Jock Sutherland, and 
led the Pitt warriors, which also 
included Carnegie line coach Ed­
die Hirshberg as starting end, to 
the Rose Bowl in 1930. Following 
his playing days, Baker served as 
backfield coach under Sutherland 
until 1937 when he first came t*v 
Carnegie. - -
From 1937 to 1939 Dr. Baker 
was CIT coach Bill Kern’s assist­
ant working as backfield mentor 
for the 1938 Sugar Bowl team. 
Taking over the head coaching du­
ties in 1940 and continuing for 
three years, he piloted a de-em- 
phasized Carnegie eleven to sev­
en victories and 15 defeats against 
such titans as Notre Dame, Pitt, 
and Holy Cross. In fact, in 1942 
the light (average lineman: 18tj) 
lb.) Tartan squad held Pitt to a 
6-6 tie for three quarters before 
finally bowing to the Panthers. 
[continued on page 9]

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 9, IS5«—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pag* 9
IM Football Season Begins 
With New Plays, Formations
Most IM football favorites scored easy victories as the ’56 
season got off to a booming start. The Delts, favorites in the Skibo 
League, scored an impressive 40-2 victory over the Clyde Street 
A.C., while the Phi Kaps squeaked by a surprisingly strong Grad 
Iggle team by 20-18. In the Kiltie^
League, Kappa Sigma defeated the 
Obelisks 11-2 and ATO conquered 
Citcom Clan 18-0.
Led by all-leaguers Mihm and 
Laughery, the shifty Delts had no 
trouble with the outplayed Clyde 
Streeters. The defense never solv­
ed the Delt attack as DTD com­
pletely dominated the game. The 
DUs kept pace with the Delts as 
Schwartz scored two touchdowns 
for DU “A,” taking a hard-fought 
12-7 victory from the Trojans. 
TX was upset 26-17 by the Met 
Grads.
Phi Kap Game Close
Phi Kap found the going tough 
against a huge Grad team but
Baker-
[continued, from page 8]
. Coach Baker assumed his present 
**'• post at Carnegie in 1949.
Eddie Hirshberg was hired the 
same time that Coach Baker as­
sumed his present position. He was 
captain of the 1931 Panthers, and 
served on the coaching staffs of 
Pitt, Scranton, Dartmouth, West 
Virginia, and Yale before coming 
to Tech.
Professional Backgrounds 
The sole Carnegie alumnus on«
the Tartan coaching squad is A1 
Irwin, who entered CIT in 1919 
as a student of management and 
has served in some capacity for 
the athletic department ever 
since. Mr. Irwin is one of those 
rare persons who has played five 
years of college football as a leg­
ally eligible player, putting in one 
year at W & J under army spon­
sorship and four seasons for the 
Tartans.
* A former halfback for the Uni- 
versity of Chicago under the great 
Amos Alonzo Stagg, Walt Burns 
was a professional player for sev­
en years. He is the fourth member 
of the coaching staff. The presi­
dent of a wholesale grocery bus 
iness, Walt is a. long-standing Car 
negie i joter, who coaches “for the 
love of it.” He has been around 
Carnegie football since the days 
of Judge Steffen, and has seen all 
but four of the Tech contests
* since 1920. He wa? an 'untitled 
coach, scout, confidant, tutor, and 
advisor until 1946 when he was 
officially named backfield coach 
under Bill Donohoe.
Second Dentist-Coach 
Dr. Jesse Quatse is another Pitt 
man who has returned to football 
via the Carnegie Tech squads. 
While pursuing his dental degree 
at Pitt, Jesse was a star lineman 
on the Pitt squad and an All- 
American in 1931. After his career 
in college, he ventured into the 
pro ranks and played for both 
the New York Giants and the 
Green Bay Packers. Before com­
ing to Tech in 1952 as an assistant 
coach, Jesse spent some time on 
the Pitt coaching staff.
All important in sports is the 
trainer. Walt Willoughby serves 
in that capacity for CIT wnen not 
pursuing the printing business. 
Carnegie’s trainer for all inter­
collegiate sports, and occasionally 
for intramural, finds that football 
produces the greatest number of 
injuries, as might be expected, 
but largely because of the num 
ber of students on the squad in 
comparison to the other sports. In 
injuries per capita, however, in­
tramural touch football challenges 
varsity sports as a rugged game. 
One Big Difference 
A Tartan victory eases the 
trainer’s problems, for a while at 
least “They don’t feel the aches 
and pains so much if they win. 
But that’s only for 24 hours. After 
that it doesn’t matter if they win 
or lose, they hurt just the same.
Trainer Willoughby, who served 
five years at Pitt, pointed out a 
big difference between the two 
schools. "The students here seem 
to have more fun playing foot­
ball.”
Hvizdos’ passing and shifty run­
ning by Visconti led the way to 
victory. Sigma Nu “S” overcame 
an early lead of ASCE and went 
on to a 12-5 victory. BSR coasted 
to a 16-7 win over the Static 
Charges and displayed a sharp 
passing attack. Both Sigma Nu 
and BSR could dethrone the Phi 
Kaps, last year’s league champs.
The ATOs and Kappa Sigs, big 
rivals in the Kiltie League came 
through with first game victories. 
The ATO “A” team, led by an 
impregnable defense, shut out Cit­
com 18-0. Del Ritchie scored two 
touchdowns but the victory was 
achieved by very well co-ordinated 
team play. Kappa Sig took a quick 
Tead over the Obelisks and held it 
to gain an 11-2 victory. Rinaldo 
and Lang scored the KS touch­
downs. SAE topped PKA by 14-6 
in the other contest. Fahle and 
Rees scored touchdowns for the 
victors and Quinn carried an in­
tercepted pass almost the length 
of the field for the lone PKA tally.
The next four days’ games will 
feature the following:
Citcom punter gels bail away in game with ATO.
Tuesday
DU “A”
BSR ............................. ASCE
..............................SAE
Wednesday
DTD ........................... SN “N”
PK ........................ ATO “B”
KS .........................DU “B”
Thursday
BTP___...........Clyde St. A. C.
TDP ...
Civil Grads...............Obelisks
Monday
TX___........................ DU “A”
SN “S”.............................. BSR
ATO “A”............................SAE
Yearbook
All seniors, fraternity, and 
sorority people are reminded 
that this is the last week to 
schedule pictures to be taken 
for the yearbook.. Sign up in 
the Dean of Men’s office. Fra­
ternities and sororities should 
be sure to schedule sittings 
for their pledges. The pictures 
will be taken on the third 
floor of the Carnegie Union 
starting Monday, October 15.
Bill Shannon Wins 
Football Contest
An SAE out-prognostigated an 
ATO for this weeks Tartan Test 
of Football Coin Flipping. Bill 
Shannon edged out Buff Atkinson 
at the tape to win his free 
Thistle. Both missed the Pitt- 
California game, as did Pitt, and 
also failed to realize Washington 
would out-play Illinois. They 
picked all the others but on a 
point comparison, Shannon’s IBM 
machine out played the UNIVAC 
employed by Atkinson. Both lads 
are IM students (which should 
be expected on prediction basis) 
and are scheduled to graduate in 
1959.
Co Rec Volleyball
The top co-rec sport on campus 
is coming back soon for its fourth 
big year. Each year the number 
of teams and the general interest 
has increased, probably due to 
the fact that a good time is had 
by all. Those teams which have 
not submitted rosters should do 
so immediately as the closing date 
is October 10 at 4:30. The rostei 
may include no more than 8 men, 
but can have an unlimited sup­
ply of women.
Last year’s champs were the 
Delts and Independent women, 
and the runners-up were SAE 
and Commuters.
ueea tueurtw. Obskf Ob,Hosf O­cg b­m
Helping him and her to health and beauty I1
The after-shave lotion he rubs on his chin ... her cosmetics so kind to feminine hands ... 
the alcohols for bracing rub-downs or antiseptic needs . . . many depend on a chemical ingredient 
from oil first developed by Esso Research. So many things that help us live better 
today are the result of ESSO RESEARCH —working wonders with oil! f

---------------------------------------------------

Pa ge 10—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 9, 1956
Campus Chest-
[continued from page 5] 
most important work of NSSFNS 
is that of providing the eligible 
Negro student of the South with
opportunity to further his edu­
cation.
Special Tech Project — 10%.
Each year Tech designates a spec­
ific project aside from the usual 
beneficiaries of Campus Chest. As
in the past, this project will be 
decided upon by the students
themselves.
UNICEF—10%. The United Na­
tions Childrens Fund has been 
called the “greatest child welfare
effort of all time.” Its world is a 
world of hundreds of millions of 
under privileged children and its 
job is to provide them with milk 
and medicine and the opportunity 
to grow up. UNICEF is designed
to give countries a start toward 
self-sufficiency and is one of the 
most vivid examples in the world 
today of nations working to­
gether to save young lives and 
strengthen communities.
Why Are Viceroys
20,000 FILTERS
Made From Pùre Cellulose?
Because cellulose is a soft, 
snow-white material. .. 
the same pure, natural substance 
found in many of the good 
foods you eat every day.
Only the exclusive Viceroy tip contains 
20,000 tiny filters made from pure cellulose— 
soft, snow-white, natural—twice as many filters 
as the other two largest-selling filter brands.
That’s why Viceroy gives you...
The Smoothest Taste in Smoking ! 
Smoke SmootheryiCEROYateu^lr
filter Z/ip 
CIGARETTES
KING-SIZE

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 9, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 11
CÄRNEG»Ti\ \ // JfftlJt!ktyvUCX
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................ Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................ John Van Holt, Jr.
Sideline News 
And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
WOn Sunday afternoon, Septem­
ber 30, a regional seminar was 
conducted by the Middle Atlantic 
Province in the spacious quarters 
of Carnegie Union. The program 
was designed to acquaint the New­
man Club officers of Pitt, Tech, 
Chatham College, as well as of­
ficers from Mt. Mercy College and 
Duquesne, who represent the Na­
tional Federation of Catholic Col­
ie Students of the aims, prob- 
is, and possible potential of the 
Newman Club and the NFCCS 
members.
Finances Discussed 
Under the leadership of Jack 
Nugent, MAP Chairman, problems 
of finance and membership were 
discussed in group participation. 
Jeanne Fritz, Bob Destal, anJ 
Roger Kane were additional MAP 
officers who contributed invalu-^
le information on the Newman 
ub program.
Pittsburgh students who con­
tributed to the success of the sem­
inar were: Patricia Spine, Joan 
Bachman, Patricia Wainouskes, 
Bernice Flohr, Anne Ellisher, Bob 
Buck, Roseanne Gloeckler, and 
Jim Kelly from Pitt; Sheila Stev­
ens and Mary Anne Knuth from 
Chatham College; Marion Froe- 
licher and Rosemary Pollock from 
Mt. Mercy; Tim Day, Joe Bonk, 
fed Jack Pascoli from Tech. Rev­
erend Charles E. Demblowski, 
Newman Club chaplain of Pitt, 
was also in attendance as was Syl­
via Consavage, a recent gradu­
ate of Pitt.
The anticipated 100% in club 
attendance was marred when rep­
resentatives from California State 
Teachers College, Indiana State 
Teachers College, and Tech Eve 
ning School failed to attend.
V Grant Recipient
Lawrence N. Canjar, associate
professor of chemical engineering 
was the proud awardee of a $6,000 
research grant from the National 
Science Foundation. Professor 
Canjar will use this grant for re­
search in the field of phase 
equilibria and thermodynamic 
data for mixtures.
News Service Editor 
Stanley R. March, public rela­
tions director has announced the 
appointment of Hugh C. Newton 
as editor of the Carnegie Tech 
News Service. Mr. Newton, who 
comes here highly recommended, 
is a recent graduate of Washing­
ton & Lee University in Lexing­
ton, Virginia, where he received 
h-a degree in journalism. His tech­
nical experience was obtained 
while serving with the U. S. Air 
Force as an electronic technician 
during the Korean conflict. Wel­
come aboard, Mr. Newton!
Plaid Has Need 
Of Evening School 
News And Articles
This senvster there are approx­
imately 1519 students in pursuit of 
further knowledge of their chosen 
subjects in the ' Tech Evening 
Classes.
Congratulations and best wishes 
to all for whom the wedding bells 
rang, including—Joan Mack and 
Bill Bond, Jo Crisanti and Joe 
Morgan, Laverne Manion and 
John Alexander, Eileen Wolf and 
Ray Schwalm. Our deepest sym­
pathy is extended to Lee Green, 
John Spisak, Anthony Calabrese 
and all others who recently lost 
loved ones.
Anyone having news or articles 
for the Plaid, please send or give it 
to your Plaid editor so it can be 
compiled and edited in time for 
publication.
Carnegie Union 
A Union In Full 
Sense Of Word
A union is the joining together 
of things, and Carnegie Union is 
exactly that. It is a part of Car­
negie where many join together 
in a united cause. On visiting the 
Union, you may see a group work­
ing in thè radio station, while an­
other group may be getting to-
gether the school’s publications. 
Many organizations have their 
meetings there, and it is interest­
ing to see the varied scheduled af­
fairs. Weddings, banquets, lunch­
eons, teas, farewell parties, show­
ers and just regular meetings 
which are as varied as the groups 
sponsoring them.
On a recent visit I was delighted 
to see a group of people from In­
dia who were having a fareweli 
party for one. of their members. 
On another occasion there was a 
large group of Chinese who were 
having their -regular monthly get 
together. Many of the women wear 
dress of their country and talking 
with these people is quite inter­
esting as well as educational. Quite 
often the food served is also typ­
ical of the group in charge of the 
event.
Sigma Delta Phi
Sunday, October 4 at 2:00 
p.m. Sigma Delta Phi will 
meet at the Carnegie Union. 
Members are requested to be 
there with their candidates.
Pgh’s Most Modern Dance SpotDANCE CLUB
"More Than Jvst A Ballroom”
Sherwyn Hotel £,°v0dd Dr.FM
FRI., OCT. 12—9 P.M. to 1 A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
ORCHESTRA * Tech Invited
Religion—
[continued from page 5] 
pleting this series will be an an­
alysis of the national election on 
November 13 by Leonard Staisey, 
Assistant District Attorney of 
Allegheny County.
The November 27 assembly will 
be sponsored by the Newman 
Club, while on December 4, Pro­
fessor Noel Friedman of Xenia 
Seminary will evaluate the Dea*l 
Sea scrolls.
The three traditional holiday 
observances, Thanksgiving, Chu* 
nakah, and Christmas are sched­
uled for November 20 and Dec­
ember 11 and 18, respectively, 
thus terminating the fall calendar.
Second „semester programs, at 
present only tentatively set up, 
include a discussion of “Religion 
and the Professional Responsibil­
ity” on February 19 followed by 
departmental forums.
The English department’s an­
nual lectures will begin this year 
on February 26 and continue 
through March. No other assem­
blies will be held at this time.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTION 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Evening Sorority 
Enjoys Surprise 
At Annual Banquet
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority held its 
annual banquet at the Gateway 
gPJaza on June 2, 1956.
Mr. and Mrs. Dalziel McKelway 
extended their greetings to all 
present. Mrs. Ruth Mercer, hos­
tess at the Carnegie Union, ex­
pressed her pleasure at being as­
sociated with the group. Miss 
Marilyn Phipps was the chairlady 
and Mrs. Emily Muhic was toast- 
mistress. Since the theme was 
“Brides”, Miss Mary Alice Peter­
son was credited with the beauti­
fully arranged bridal display 
^¿bles.
The guest speaker was Mrs. 
Kenneth Hinderer, who related 
many interesting bridal customs 
and traditions in our country and 
abroad. Recent brides and brides- 
to-be among the sorority members 
were introduced. They were Mar­
jorie Reed Pore, Lana Knezac 
Colmar, and Eileen Wolf Woolard.
Due to a last minute change of«
Ians the scheduled entertainment 
>as not available, but Mr. George 
Bogovich, a Tech student attend­
ing another banquet, proved the 
adage “You can be sure if it's 
Westinghouse.” At his request, the 
Westinghouse Quartet rendered 
several vocal selections. It was a 
delightful and pleasant surprise to 
hear this fine group of singers.
The first meeting of the 1956-57 
season will be held on October 14 
2:30 p.m. All girls interested 
i joining the sorority are invited 
to attend this meeting.
What young people are doing at C 
L i
renerai Electric
; ' * W—LàA 4fkra* kà
Young mathematician 
helps pace engineering advances
Recently General Electric developed a 
compact, new motor for industrial use. But 
before the motor could be put into automatic 
production, one difficulty remained: to de­
sign a protective end shield that would con­
fine any possible explosion to the motor itself.
The man who solved the tough mathemat­
ical problems involved is R. A. “Pete ’ Powell 
— a mathematical analyst whose job is to as­
sist other engineers in math problems which 
arise in any number of different projects.
Powell’s Work Is Varied and Important
Because he is not tied down to any one 
project, Powell seldom has two similar as­
signments. Taking established engineering 
and mathematical principles, some of them 
extremely complicated, Powell applies them 
to advanced engineering problems. In doing 
I this, Pete is able to make such calculations 
as the distortion of a small part of a jet 
engine caused by vibrations, the deflection 
occurring in a turbine part when it runs at 
operational speeds, or the forces exerted 
upon a rotating shaft by lubricants.
27,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When “Pete” Powell came to General Elec­
tric in 1953, he already knew the kind of 
work he wanted to do. Like each of our 
27,000 college-graduate employees, he is 
being given the chance to grow and realize 
his full potential. For General Electric has 
long believed this: Whenever fresh young 
minds are given freedom to make progress, 
everybody benefits — the individual, the 
Company, ¿md the country.
Educational Relations, General Electric 
Company, Schenectady 5, New York
R. A. "PETE" POWELL joined General 
Electric in 1953 after receiving his 
B.S. in Physics in ’47 and his M.S. in 
Mathematics in *49, both from Purdue. 
From 1949-52 he completed further 
study in Physics again at Purdue.
Progress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL (MÙ ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

r*ee IS—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October », 195«
Adlai—
[continued from page 2] 
the President offered to in­
tervene in the Indo-Chinese con­
flict along with Britain, France, 
and other nations in a major war 
effort. Britain and France ended 
up signing a treaty with the Com­
munists, ceding the northern half 
of Indochina to the Reds, similar 
to the Korean concession. The 
former administration would cer­
tainly have been denounced a la 
MacArthur by Mr. Eisenhower’s 
party for going along with these 
concessions.
But what solutions had the 
President offered to insure world 
peace? His boldest initiative, that 
is, the “open skies” proposal was 
rejected by the Russians at Gen­
eva in addition to a considerable 
number of military experts. It 
seemed inefficient and ludicrous. 
The Russians were amused. In 
order to revitalize the President’s 
impressive “cold war” campaigns, 
three presidential assistants la­
bor# i for new ideas. C. D. Jack­
son and Nelson Rockefeller later 
went home discouraged by their 
failure to create any enthusiasm 
toward a new approach in the 
administration.
More Agreements 
Admittedly, however, the ad­
ministration has acted in some 
cases. Giving more emphasis to 
military agreements than eco­
nomic and technical aid, the pres­
ent administration now boasts se­
curity treaties with forty-two 
nations. The party that once op­
posed “entangling alliances” has 
now turned to them. At least 
Franklin Roosevelt, and Harry 
Truman wielded the military 
influence so that we maintained 
strong diplomatic relations.
And even the military organiza­
tion is prodding along in dire need 
of a new structure that will give 
it the technologists and scientists 
and physicists for more than a 
two year period to implement the 
long range defense program, the 
new weapons, and the intensive 
research required of an army 
fighting a mid-twentieth century 
battle. Neither Mr. Eisenhower, 
nor Mr. Wilson have -offered con­
structive suggestions for a highly- 
trained regular army. The govern­
ment continues to drift.
Tenuous Truces
Today, we find uneasy truces in 
Korea, Indo-China, the Formosa 
Strait, and the frontiers of Is­
rael. The new Soviet policy has 
left us in the wake of confusion 
and half-guessing; and the United 
States has failed to dynamically 
support the new young democratic
News Review—
[continued from page 6] 
Democrats are hitting the Ad­
ministration’s policy toward the 
farmers, and are making their 
;hief appeal to the “little man,” 
Stevenson will concentrate on 
states showing a large Democratic 
registration and/or unemploy­
ment . . . Michigan, Psnnsylva- 
nia, California and Massachusetts.
The voters seem to be taking 
prosperity for granted; also fading 
out as key issues are the Presi­
dent’s health, Mr. Nixon, and Civil 
Rights.
Saar Restored
West German Chancellor Con­
rad Adenauer and French Pre­
mier Guy Mollet completed ne­
gotiations on the Saar basin, with 
the result that the basin will re­
vert to West Germany in Janu­
ary.
Plans of European unity are be­
ing discussed again, including a 
»Vest European customs Union, 
and German unification. The Suez 
:risis has impressed Britain and 
France with the necessity of pre­
senting a strong front without the 
sacking of the U. S.
Suez Ruling
The United States last week 
roted with Great Britain and 
France in accusing Egypt of 're- 
!usal to consider the Dulles pro­
posals backed by 17 nations. The 
Security Council recommended 
that Nasser’s government work 
>ut a system of operation based on 
the Dulles proposals. Debate will 
resume tomorrow.
republics of the world such as 
India. There is tension in North 
Africa and France is losing out; 
the Icelanders, our long-term 
allies, have called for removal of 
United States troops. The unity 
of NATO needs resourceful lead­
ership. The Eisenhower admini­
stration has failed to offer the 
needed leadership. Today there is 
no war, but there is no peace.
Congress—
[continued from page 1] 
er, SAE; Dean Zimmerman, SN; 
A1 Goldstein, TDP; Mike Vero, 
TX; Lu Fields, AEP; Kreale De­
laney, ChiO; Barbara Mortsen, DG; 
M. A. Harrison, KAT; Carolou 
Fidder, KKG; Barbara Riedy, SK;
By Living Quarters 
John Croy, Boss Hall; Gene 
Clatyon, Donner A; Russ Jones, 
Donner 2; Chuck Brock, McGill 
Hall; Reynolds, Scobell Hall; 
James Fischer, Welch Hall; 
Suzette Groves, Morewood A; 
Beverly Immel, Morewood B; 
Frani Jungke, Morewood C; Judy 
Thomas, Morewood D; Frank 
Choby, Jim Kelly, Charles Beltz, 
muters.
Standing Committees
Dr. Strick also explained to the 
Congress that eleven standing 
committees are to be organized 
from the representatives. These 
committees include;
Rules Committee, to determine
agenda and procedures; Elections 
Committee, to conduct elections of 
representatives; Finance Commit­
tee, to control finances, both of 
the Council and of many extra­
curricular organizations; Home­
coming committee, to plan and or­
ganize Homecoming; Spring Car­
nival Committee, to plan and or­
ganize Spring Carnival; Campus 
Chest Committee, to plan and or­
ganize Campus Chest drives.
Also, the Leadership Confer­
ence Committee, to plan and con­
duct Leadership Conferences; 
Freshman Orientation and Regu­
lations Committee, to plan Fresh­
man Week and Traditions; Con­
stitution Committee, to examine 
and submit revisions to the Con­
stitution; Points and Keys Com­
mittee, to conduct awards of Ac­
tivities Keys; and Carnegie Union 
Committee, to act as the governing 
board of the new Carnegie Union 
when it is in operation.
Representatives will indicate 
their preferences for committees 
at the next meeting of the legis­
lature.
Nominations for- chairman and 
vice-chairman of the legislative 
branch of the government were 
then requested. Those nominated 
were: for chairman — Detweiler, 
O’Conner, Wilton, Achilles, and J 
Kelly; for vice-chairman—Groves, 
Casey, Thomas, Brock, Jones, 
Clements, Kunesh, and Steir.
Elections of these officers will 
be held at the next meeting.
Forum—
[continued from page 1] 
cially suited to every curious 
American. This means you!! the 
whole Tech family, students and 
faculty and their guests.
The forum gathers at 7 o’clock 
in PH 100, where there will fol­
low one hour of standard debate 
procedure, consisting of set pe­
riods of time first to affirm each 
speaker’s views and then for re­
buttals. At the close of the first 
hour, the floor will be handed 
over to the audience for what 
promises to be a very significant 
discussion and question period. It 
is guaranteed that by 9 o’clock 
every participant will have gained 
some valuable facts with which 
to back up his favorite candidate.
The problem of representatives 
elected from the same class was 
then- discussed. Several depart­
ments, including mechanical and 
electrical engineering, had elected 
more than one representative 
from the same class year. The 
Constitution prohibits this prac­
tice. Dr. Strick announced that 
re-elections- would be held in 
these departments.
The first meeting of the Student 
Congress adjourned by acclama­
tion at 5:10 p.m. The next meet­
ing will be held Wednesday, Oc­
tober 10, at 4:30 p.m. in Porter 
Hall 100.
Assembly—
[continued from page 1] 
divinity from Carlton College, 
Meadvile Theological School, and 
degrees of doctor of laws from the 
University of Minnesota and 
Mount Holyoke College.
The Committee on Religif s 
Activities, who invited Dr. Eliot 
through the Unitarian church, 
sponsor a series of religious as-» 
semblies each year as a contri­
bution to the overall educational 
opportunities of the Carnegie Tech 
Community. There will not be a 
lecture on October 23, because of 
a freshman orientation assembly.
* - — ‘ . 
mittee, the executive branch of 
the new government, met in the 
Carnegie Union at 4:30 p.m., last 
Wednesday. The Committee elect­
ed Robert Russell temporary 
president until all its members 
have been elected.
Already elected members of the 
Executive Committee are: Dave 
Clements, departmental honorar- 
ies; John Alexander, activities 
honoraries; Ben Jones, Mer£ i 
Dorm Council; Jim Plugge, Coun­
cil of Fraternity Presidents; Betsy 
Kuhn, Panhellenic Council; Joan 
LoBianco, Womens’ Dorm Coun­
cil; Bob Russell, Pi Delta Epsilon; 
Kerry Aquadro, treasurer; and 
Terry Sharp.
-----------------------------------------------------V_
Meanwhile the Executive Com-
George Lincoln asks:
What do 
metallurgists 
do in a 
chemical 
company?
CHARLES I. SMITH, JR., received his B.S. Ch.E. 
from V.P.I. in 1943, served in the Navy as an 
engineer officer, and joined Du Pont’s Engineer­
ing Department in 1946. Since then, he has ad­
vanced steadily through a number of interesting 
assignments at various Du Pont plants. He was 
recently promoted to manager of the Technical 
Section of Du Pont’s Pigments Department.
MetoHvrgists ami Metallurgical Engineers
rar» find some of Charlie Smith’s challenging 
new problems described in “Engineers at 
Du Pont.” For a free copy of this booklet 
write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 
98, Delaware.
GEORGE M. LINCOLN, JR., expects to receive his B.S. in met­
allurgical engineering from Lehigh University in 1957. George was 
vice president of his junior class, is active in sports, and a partici­
pant in many other campus activities. He’s starting his employ­
ment investigations early, for he feels that the selection of an 
employer is one of the most important decisions in a man’s career.
Charlie Smith answers:
pccM bso
•erre« thmgs km sette* uvmo ... through CHamsnt 
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
They have an almost endless variety of interesting 
problems to f§ce, George. As a student of metallurgy, 
you know that about two-thirds of all known chemical 
elements are metals. Many of them are revealing valu­
able new applications, when highly purified on a com­
mercial scale. Du Pont is greatly interested in several 
metallic and semi-metallic elements.
My own experience at Du Pont ranges from work 
on titanium pigments, to metallic titanium production, 
and to the ultra-pure silicon used in transistors. You 
can appreciate some of our metallurgical problems when 
I point out that impurities in transistor silicon have to 
be below one part in 100 million. That’s equivalent to 
one pound of impurities distributed through a train of 
ore cars twenty miles long!
Some of our metallurgists carry out fundamental 
research on new metals, and, in the development stage, 
they frequently operate pilot plants for producing them; 
Other metallurgists study problems relating to engi­
neering materials used in construction, carry out re­
search on intergranular corrosion, or investigate fatigue 
relationships encountered in dynamic, high-pressure 
operations.
You’ll find many challenging opportunities in every 
phase of metallurgy at Du Pont, George.
