FRATERNITY 
BASKET BALL 
TUESDAY
VOL. XII. NO. 20(Ihr (Jarían
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
THISTLE SALES 
END SOON 
GET BUSY
FEBRUARY 27, 1918
DATE OF HOME CONCERT IS MAR. 21; NIGHT SCHOOL TO HE DISMISSED
Sale of Tickets Bringing Rap 
F Results—High Schools 
Coming
3 OTHER CONCERTS
After manj’ reverses caused by 
changes in the schedule and failure 
to obtain the music hall on the night 
originally designated, the date for the 
Home Concert has finally been sec for 
the nigh^ of March 21. This date falls 
on Thursday, but it has been decided 
by the Administration to dismiss class­
es that night so tbat the Musical Club 
can get the support of both day and' 
night schools. Following the concert 
the usual formal dance will be held 
in the Hotel Schenley ball room. This 
dance is always looked forward to, be­
cause it is the one formal dance which 
all classes of all schools are eligible 
to attend.
Last Sunday afternoon the tickets 
were given out to the men in the clubs. 
Each man was given tickets amount­
ing to $25.00 in value to sell, but one 
man returned the following day and 
asked for more tickets to sell. Work­
ers such as that, are the ones who 
make the season a success.
Again this year the club fraternity 
society or other organization who has 
purchased the largest number of tick­
ets provided the amount of the sale 
value is over $35.00, will be given the 
opportunity of reserving their tickets 
before the reservations are made for 
the public. Special tickets have been 
sent to the various High Schools in 
Pittsburgh and large delegations are 
expected to be at the concert. They 
will bring their own cheer leaders and 
our plebes will have to be out in great 
numbers if Tech is going to be heard' 
above the High Schools.
Directors Scalzo -and La Marca are 
putting the finkl finishing touches on 
the program and the. three concerts 
which are to be given in and near 
Pittsburgh before the Home Concert, 
will afford the clubs sufficient oppor­
tunity to practice the specialities. The 
clubs are in good shape now, and by 
March 21, they will be able to present 
a concert that will compare favorably 
or even will be better than the former 
concerts.
FLAGS DECORATE UNION 
AT GIRLS’ JUNIOR PROM
The Junior Calss of M. M. C. S. 
held their Informal Wartime Prom in 
the Carnegie Union on February 22. 
Festivities began at 9:30. Anna Me- 
Candless, Junior President; Dean 
Breed, Miss Browning, Junior Honor­
ary Member; Helen Bos worth. Sen­
ior President; and Mrs. Salisbury, 
Senior Honorary Member, received 
and dancing was ehjoyed until one 
o'clock.
A luncheon of fruit salad, sand­
wiches, olives and coffee was served 
on the first and second floors, after 
which dancing was resumed.
Riehl's orchestra with Bennie Le­
vant at the piano, furnished the music. 
Palms and ferns were banked around 
the orchestra. A large American flag 
hung back of the orchestra, and a 
large Carnegie banner draped over 
the door.
The programs were decorated with 
the flags of the allies and twenty 
dances with four extras were listed. 
.The success of the affair is due to the 
efforts of Dorothy Harlowe, Junior So­
cial Chairman and to her committees. 
Bernice Kruger was chairman of mu­
sic committee; Mary Truman of pro­
gram committee; Bess Sluirpley of 
decoration committee, and Marion 
Keefer of the luncheon committee.
FRATERNITY WAR TAX 
REPORTED IN COUNCIL
Interfraternity Body Organ­
izes and Elects Officers
TECH MILITARY BALL TO 
BE GIVEN AT SCHENLEY
April 19 has been finally decided 
upon as the date for the Military Ball, 
which is to be given in the Hotel 
Schenley Ball Room, under tfche aus­
pices of the Tech Band. This prom­
ises to be one of the biggest social 
events of- the school year.
The committee in charge consists 
of S. A. Smith, chairman; R. B. John­
son, J. S. Rowe and J. A. Civilett.
Good music will be a feature of the 
occasion and no expense will be spared 
in securing the best orchestra in Pitts­
burgh.
In order to make this a real Military 
Ball it has been decided to require 
each man to appear in full military 
uniform. Men appearing in civilian 
attire will not be admitted.
The price of tickets as well as other 
details will be announced later.
SENIOR GIRLS AID IN 
WORK FOR GOVERNMENT
During the past week, the Senior 
girls of M. M. C. S. have had all then- 
secretarial classes excused so that they 
might aid with war work in Pittsburgh. 
Officials sent here from the camps are 
at work trying to . standardize lists of 
questions for trade tests to be used 
in the examining of ljien io be sent 
abroad. The girls have been taking 
down the opinions of expert vulcan- 
izers, etc. Their chief place of work 
has been the Westinghouse.
* ' * 
4« TRACK *
4* ---------- 4*
4* Track practice every Monday. 4* 
4* Wednesday and Friday at. the 4* 
4* gymnasium. Any man with any 4* 
4* ability at all should report. Work 4* 
4* begins at 4:30 or as soon after as 4* 
4* possible.
4* *
4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* *1* 4« 4* »1« 4* 4* 4* 4*'4*
PLEBES BEAT KISKI 
IN WELL-PLAYED GAME
COLLEGE ASSOCIATION 
VISITS AT M. M. C. S
Last Saturday night in the gym, 
the Plebe quintet triumphed over 
Kiski by the score of 28-30. The Plebes 
certainly deserve exceptional credit 
for their fine playing against such a 
heavy team. Incidentally, they 
avenged the beating given them by 
Kiski last week.
The contest was exciting through­
out and was not decided until the 
last ten seconds of play, when Lynn 
came through with a field goal. In 
the first few minutes of play, four 
fouls and four field goals by Nlcliol 
apd Hamman gave the Plebes eight 
points, while Kiski made four points 
on two fouls and a illed goal. Two 
more field goals by Hamman and a 
foul brought our total to thirteen. 
Five fouls and two field goals netted 
Kiski nine points. The first half 
closed in a tie—13-13.
In the second half both teams came 
on the floor determined to win and 
put their best into the game. The 
score was close throughout—there 
never was a difference of more than 
four points. First one team would 
make a field goal and then the other 
would follow, and so on until at the 
last moment, when the score stood at
28-2S, Lynn shot a field goal, which 
won the game.
Captain Hamman was the star for 
the Plebes. His accurate shooting 
netted him five field goals. The line­
up was as follows:
Kiski—28. Tech Plebes—39.
Davies .....................F............................. Lynn
Ewing ......................F........................ Maurer
Clawson .................C...................Hamman
Holleran ................G.......................... Nichol
Stein ................... .G.............................. Good
Substitutions—Stevenson for .Ew­
ing, Leet for Nichol. Field goals— 
Davies, 4; Clawson, 3; Holleran, 1; 
Lynn, 3; Maurer, 1; Hamman, 5; 
Nichol, 1. Foul Goals—Clawson, 12 
out of 22; Nichol, 9 out of 22; Lynn, 
j-.O out of 2; Leet, 0 out of 1; Hamman,
I 1 out of 1. Referee—Mates. Time of 
I halves—20 minutes.
On Monday afternoon, February 25, 
the Pittsburgh Female College Asso­
ciation visited the Margaret Morrison 
School. After a tour of inspection, tea 
was served in the Faculty Parlors at 
3:30. This organization offers a 
scholarship each year to the M. M. C.
S. upper classman who has made the 
best record. This year Miss Inez 
Potts,’ a Junior, was the recipient,
PRINTING DEPARTMENT 
HEARS GALLERY LECTURE
The members of the Department of 
printing enjoyed a Gallery lecture last 
Friday afternoon when Harry L. Gage, 
head of the Department, conducted the 
group through the Museum at Carne­
gie Institute. The trip was very in­
structive and other ones will be taken 
at a later date.
Last Saturday morning the Inter­
fraternity Council met to adopt its 
constitution and to organize. The 
most important topic discussed was 
the matter of fraternity war tax, which 
applies also to clubs and other organ­
izations. The following report was sub­
mitted by a committee consisting of 
Toler, Wolfe and Eames:
Application:
(1) General Case: Whenever fees 
coming due during a period of one year 
(June 1 to June 1), no matter when 
paid, exceed $12, a ten per cent tax 
is payable on the entire amount. These 
fees include initiation, yearly, and 
monthly dues, but any pari of the 
above which is to be paid for maga­
zines, jewelry, badges, room, board, or 
the like is to be subtracted from the 
total.
(2) Special Case, June 1, 1917 to 
June 1, 1918: Initiation or membership 
fee due before November 1, 1917 is 
not taxable and is not. to be included 
when figuring the taxable amount. 
The above fee when due after Novem­
ber 1, 1917 is taxable and must be in­
cluded when figuring the taxable 
amount.
The total of yearly fees and monthly 
dues falling due in the period June 1, 
1917-—June 1, 1918, must be used to 
determine whether the tax applies, but. 
the tax is applicable only to that part 
which covers the period November 1, 
1917—June 1, 1918.
All organizations to which the above{ 
applies must send a report with their 
remittance to the nearest Internal Rev­
enue Office between the first and tenth 
of each month. This report and remitt­
ance are for the preceding month.
The law from which the above ab­
stract was taken is as follows:
Section 701: “That from and after
the first day of November, 1917, there 
shall be levied, assessed, collected, and 
paid, a tax equivalent to ten percent- 
um of any amount paid as membership 
fees (including initiation fees) or dues 
to any social, athletic, or sporting club, 
or organization, where such dues or 
fees are in excess of $12 per year; 
such taxes to be paid by the person 
paying such dues or fees; Provided, 
that there shall be exempted from the 
provision of the section all amounts 
paid as dues or fees to a fraternal 
beneficiary society, order, or organi­
zation operating under the lodge sys­
tem or for the exclusive benefit of 
(Continued on Page Two.)
SIX NEW PLAYS TO BE 
PRODUCED THIS WEEK
There will be six different plays pro­
duced at Tech this week—a record 
which, If. is thought, the Drama Depart­
ment of the School of Applied Design 
has never before equaled. The first 
one to be given will be Yea.t’s Dramat­
ic Poem, “The King’s Threshold,” 
which will appear at a matinee Thurs­
day afternoon at 4:30. Everyone is 
familiar with Yeat’s poems, and it is 
unnecessary to say that this play pos­
sesses wonderful poetic qualities as 
well as dramatic interest. The parts 
are to some extent double cast, and 
are assigned as follows:
Seanchan—Lawrence Paquin ............
........................ J. Montgomery Wolcott
King .........................................Hubert Clarke
Oldest Pupil—E(}ith Armstrong___
...................................... Harriet Klamroth
Youngest Pupil—Dorothy High..........
................................................ Esther Kress
Mayor of Kinvara ..Myron MacAteer
First Cripple ...................Martha Klieves
Second Cripple..................Grey McAuley
Brian........................................Hugo Faustine
Chamberlain .... Nazereno La Marca
Monk ....................................... Hans Muller
Soldier ................. Howard McClenahan
First Girl ...................... Carolyn Meririg
Second Girl............. Georgette Schulze
Princess—Minnette Buddecks ..........
................................................ Dorothy High
Fedelm—Ruth Farmer............Minnette
Buddecke..............Caroline McCampbell
Thursday evening there will be a 
bill of three plays given by the night 
students—“Just Women," by Colin C. 
Clements, who attended Tech the first 
part of this year, and has lately gone 
to New York to appear in Stuart Walk­
er’s productions, Zona Gale's ^Neigh- 
bors,” and “Dancing Dolls," which was 
first given here several years ago.
The first two of the proposed series 
of “Tech Plays’’ to be given this year 
will be produced Friday afternoon. 
They are “That Strange Girl Zisco” 
by Bronwen Chubb, and “The Shadows 
of Uldane,” by Sara E. Bennett. The 
casts of both of the latter were printed 
in The, Tartan a few weeks ago'
FIRST TECH MEN MEET 
DEATH IN GREAT WAR
Former Industries Student 
Lost on Tuscania
The first casualty among the sev­
eral hundred Tech men who are “in 
the service" was the death of Walter 
Crellin. Crellin was on his way “Over 
There” on the illfated Tuscania and 
was among the victims of the tor­
pedoed vessel, which was sunk by a 
U-boat off the northern coast of Ire­
land on February 5.
Crellin was a first year student at 
the School of Applied Industries dur­
ing the year 1915-16 taking the Gen­
eral Equipment. and Installation 
course. He did not return the follow­
ing year but had made plans to re­
enter this last fall when he responded 
to his country’s call and enlisted in 
the engineers’ corps. His home was in 
Virginia, Minnesota, and he belonged 
to the 127t.h Engineers.
The second Tech man to sacrifice 
his life for the great cause was Frank 
M. Pickens, of Poland, Ohio, who en­
tered Tech in the fall of 1911.
When the call for volunteers was is­
sued by the Government, Pickens went 
with the first contingent to France 
and we have the sad and distressing 
information from C. F. Wright of Sci­
ence ’13, who is in active service with 
Base Hospital 36, to the following ef­
fect:
“A young fellow by the name of 
Pickens from the Youngstown Unit 
died in our hospital ten days ago. He 
was the fellow who was in my class at 
(Continued on Page Two.)
AERONAUTIC LABORATORY 
IS BEING CONSTRUCTED
Work has already begun on a school 
to house airplanes at Tech. A tem­
porary building will be constructed on 
the tennis courts, opposite the Central 
Build'/ig, This building will be 
known as th Langley Laboratory of 
Aeronautics, the name having boon 
suggested by Dr. John A. Brashear in 
honor of Prof. Langley, whose» many 
years qf research in Pittsburgh cul­
minated in tho invention of the first 
successful airplane. The purposo of 
the school will bo to provide space for 
housing airplanes and for use in train­
ing the student, airmen, a large num­
ber of whom are already hero, that 
will be sent by the United States Gov­
ernment.
Tho plans for tl^o new building are 
being drawn by Mr. Henry Hornbostel, 
architect for the Institute Building 
Bureau and patron of the Design 
School, who will oversee the erection. 
When intorvlowod, Mr Hornbostel de­
scribed tho prospective structure as a 
ic.ng, low building, resembling a huge 
shop, with a fiat roof supported by 
steel trusses. The sides will bo long 
rows of glass windows and tlioro will 
be ample door accommodations for 
the convenient drawing In and out of 
airplanes.
It is understood that the building 
now being construed will be only a 
temporary structure en a temporary 
location. It is the goal of the admin­
istration to establish the school as a 
permanent department of the institute 
and this will doubtless be accom­
plished very soon.
INTRA-MURAL BASKET 
"BALL SCHEDULE RESULTS
The final games of the present 
schedule of the fraternity league were 
played a week ago Tuesday, with the 
following results:
West Dormitoiy—7 
East Dormitory—15
Delta Upsilon—22 
Phi Epsilon Pi—10
Sigma Nu—21 
South Dormitory—14 
To date, Sigma Nu and Delta Up­
silon have not lost a game. Should the 
game between these two result in a 
victory for Delta Upsilon it will give 
them undisputed claim for the frater­
nity championship. Should Sigma Nu 
come out on the long end, they will 
still have to dispose of the East Dorm, 
which team has already been defeated 
by Delta Upsilon. In the event of 
Sigma Nu defeating Delta UpBilon and 
losing to East Dorm there will be a 
three cornered tie between the three 
teams, as each will have lost one 
game.
The inter-class league has not shown 
up at all; due, no doubt, to the great­
er interest taken by the students In 
the fraternity games.
TECH SEEKING SUPPLY OF RIFLES; TRAINING CAMP PLANS UNDER WAY
JUNIOR PROMENADE 
AS EXCITING AS EVER
' Considering the times and the sea­
sons, the Junior Promenade of the 
Class of 1919 was certainly a far great­
er success than was ever expected. 
The music was wonderful, the iloor 
was the best in the city, and the crowd 
was just right. Attendance on the part 
of alumni was slight, but the Seniors 
responded loyally and by far the great­
er part of the Junior class was there, 
including many who have droped out 
of school this year.
There was evidence of the wartimes 
all during the evening. Favors were 
omitted, and the programs wero quite 
simple affairs. The midnight lunch­
eon, too. was simplified so as to in­
clude only chicken salad, war bread 
sandwiches, ice cream and coffee. Ami 
as a final touch, Glen Haynes, who last 
year enlisted from the 1919 Chemical 
Engineering class, returned especial­
ly for the Prom and attended in uni­
form. Haynes is a former managing 
editor of The Tartan.
The grand march, George Ellerton 
leading, began about ten o’clock. The 
music by Riehl’s orchestra was so 
much enjoyed, and the dances were so 
generously encored that tho Intermis­
sion was not reached until one o’clock 
Instead of twelve. It soon was evi­
dent that the program of thirty dances 
could never be completed in the time 
set, but nothing like that dismayed 
the dancers and the Prom continued 
until the wee small hours of tho morn­
ing.
4»4»4»4»4»4»4»4»4*4»4»4«4»4«4»4»4* 
4* 4*
4* BASKETBALL 4*
4* ---------- i 4«
4« Penn State vs. Tech Varsity. 4* 
4« Schenley High vs. Tech Plebes. 4« 
4* Dance after the game. Friday, 4* 
4* March 1, 7:30 sharp. Tech gym- 4* 
4* naslum. 4*
4» 4*
4. 4. 4. .1. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4.
TECH TACKLES STATE; 
PLEDES PLAHCHENLEY
On Friday, March 1, Penn Stato will 
play Its return game at tho Tech gym. 
A few weolcs ago tho Plaid five was 
beaten by Penn Stato 21-4(1. The visi­
tors will find no easy task when they 
strike tho city this weolc, however, 
sinco Tech has tho advantage of play­
ing on Its homo floor.
Blakosleo is Penn Htiito’s star play­
er. Ho plays center and In also their 
foul shot. In tho game against our 
five he caged sevon field goals and 
made ton out of sixteen fouls count. 
Both forwards Mullan and Young, are 
fast. Wolfe and Wilson are excellent 
guards. Fast Is their sub-guard.
Tech now has Hoban and Doherty 
as regular forwards with Mayer as a 
reserve. “Grotz," tho old reliable, Is 
our only center. Cosgrove and Cruse 
are now holding the guard positions 
while Leet and Wire are substitutes.
The preliminary game will be with 
Schenley High School and will begin 
at 7:30 sharp. Both games are bound 
to be exciting and interesting. There 
will be a dance after the game.
M. M. C. S. GRADUATE 
WEDS OFFICER IN TEXAS
Miss Mary Elizabeth McGrew, of 
Canton, Ohio, a 1915 Margaret Mor­
rison graduate, was married, on Feb­
ruary 16, in Waco, Texas, to Lieut. 
Arthur Wilson Crump of Lake Mills, 
Wis. Miss McGrew has been teach­
ing in the high school In Ellsworth, 
Pa., and Lieut. Crump, a University 
of Wisconsin graduate, is stationed at 
Camp McArthur, Texas.
FACULTY MEMBER EDITS 
ARTICLE ON WAR WORK
Dr. MacLeod, of the M. M. C. S. 
English Department, has been asked 
by the Delineator to edit an article on 
the war work being done at Tech.
4. 4i4*4*4*4‘4*4‘4*4«4‘4‘4‘4«4*4*4*
4* The dance which was to have 4* 
4« been given this Friday evening 4- 
4* by t he members of the Building 4* 
4« Construction Club has been in- 4* j 
4« definitely postponed on account. 4*’ 
4« of the basketball game with 4* 
4* Penn State.
4. 4. 4- 4« 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4» 4*
Rifle Ranges, Bayonet Course 
and Trenches to be Con­
structed in Park
SIX WEEKS IN CAMP
Major Lyle gave a Tartan represen­
tative Monday some new facts about 
military training at Tech. Although 
the course seems hardly launched, the 
Major and the Military Committee are 
taking rapid steps toward starting 
the more important features of the 
program.
Next week the Major will go to New 
York City to try to obtain rifles to re­
place the dummy guns now in use. He 
will also see about the construction 
of twelve miniature rifle ranges at 
Tech.
The committee plans to take up with 
the city the proposition of using Sclieu- 
ley Park for building a bayonet course, 
a bombing course and for digging 
trenches. This work will start as soon 
as the ground thaws and fair weather 
sets in.
Major Lyle announced the first of 
this week that plans for an Officers’ 
Training Camp at Camp Louise Car­
negie are under way. As now planned, 
the course will be six weeks and will 
be open to Tech men then liable to 
draft.
The course will be similar to any 
other Olllcors’ Trailing Camp. The 
men while In camp will bo paid by tho 
government.
COMMITTEE WILL SOON 
REQUIRE DRESS ONIFORM
Those students who have boon so 
anxious to bury tholr surplus bank 
rolls In tho luxury of sorgo uniforms 
will have an opportunity to gratify 
their'deslres soon, according to a state­
ment made by Dr. James, chairman of 
tho commlttoo 011 military affairs. In 
tho near future it will bo required by 
tho commlttoo that all students must 
possess two uniforms, tho one that 
each Is supposed to have now, and one 
made of bettor material. Tho latter 
Is to bo worn on such occasions as 
dross parade, exhibition drill, and on 
Sundays and holidays. A socond uni­
form will bo necessary, according to 
Dr. James, bocauso mud and khaki do 
not go well together, and there will bo 
plonty of mud when tho tronch*dlgglng 
begins.
But there are many students who do 
not have tho surplus bank rolls with 
which to buy uniforms of hotter qual­
ity than they have now. in order to 
aid those students as much as possi­
ble I11 mooting the now requirements, 
a sub-committee known as tho Mili­
tary Entertainment Commlttoo has 
boon appointed,'with Mr. Dornborger, 
of tho Design. School, as chairman, to 
arrange means by which a fund may 
bo established for tholr benefit. Mr. 
Dornborgor will be assisted by Phy­
sical Director McCullough, and a 
group of students which will be ap­
pointed from the three men’s schools. 
Military and gymnastic exhibitions, 
dances and entertainments will be ar­
ranged, and a publicity campaign will 
be inaugurated so that the people of 
Pittsburgh will appreciate the worthi­
ness of the cause and will offer their 
co-operation. The proceeds from 
these affairs will be contributed to the 
fund which is the goal of the commit­
tee.
F. J. NUTTALL ELECTED 
1918 FOOTBALL MANAGER
Mr. I-Iaaren, the Design Alumni 
member of the Athletic Board of Con­
trol, resigned at last week’s meeting 
of the board because of ill health. Mr. 
Haaren was secretary of the board 
and Mr. Colraery was therefore elected 
to fill this vacancy.
The election of Manager of Ath­
letics Eyman was also sanctioned by 
the board. The board is now working 
on revising Its Constitution.
Because of the curtailing of athletic 
opportunities at Tech this Spring, the 
board has decided that the elimina­
tion of the Inter-Scholastic Meet is 
necessary.
F. J. Nuttal, Science, ’19, was elect­
ed Manager of Football for the year of
1918. Of the assistants now out, none 
were elected because the board 
deemed them Insufficiently mature for 
the position. Both of these men will 
have an opportunity next year.
BASKETBALL-------PENN STATE-------FRIDAY

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, February 27, 1918
Published every WedneBday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postofflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter. 
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
0FFI6IAL N0TI6ES
the “barbecue” with easy consciences.
It is hoped that the Plebe who said 
his socks were black before he washed 
them will especially enjoy the affair.
Editor-in-Chicf..........
Business Manager
Phone Grant 388-11. 
Phone Schenley 2206-J
... Paul H. Armor 
.Harold R. Titus
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Pacjuin 
Assistant Managing Editor 
L. E. Enterlch 
Night Editor 
Julius Foster 
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowo 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
It. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite Haldeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H, Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mondays.
4:30 to 5:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
Tho Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent lo the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired. ¦________________________
All news items must be in the student postoiflce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28-ag^1'
Men’s Dormitories Under Military Program.
By, action of: the Administrative Council February 20th. the 
recommendation of the Faculty Committee on Military Affairs dated 
February 13th was approved, effective February 25th. The recom­
mendation was to the effect that the men's dormitories be brought 
under military discipline as a means of adopting definite hours in the 
dormitories for recreation and for study.
A. W- Tarbell, Secretary Administrative Council.
BULLETIN:—Shortly before the “Tartan” went to 
Press last evening, it was learned that Colonel Brooks, 
who has been assigned by the government to take charge 
of the Reserve Officer’s Training Corps at Carnegie Tech, 
arrived in Pittsburgh yesterday afternoon, after a four 
days’ journey from the Pacific Coast.
FIRST TECH MEN MEET
DEATH IN GREAT WAR
MILITARY DISCIPLINE
In the general orders issued by the Commandant there have be.en 
three or four references to discipline. Students must not loiter or 
lounge in the hallways, especially in the Central Building. Students 
must not smoke on the campus or in the buildings, except in the club- 
rooins. They must reduce to a minimum the noise in the hallways 
so as to disturb classes in session as little as possible. And finally, 
the men’s dormitories have been placed under military discipline as 
a means of adopting definite hours for recreation and study.
All this might, at first thought, appear like ¡‘‘piling it on;” and 
indeed it is quite a bit of discipline considering the absolute lack of it 
which existed before. But we may be sure that the necessity exists, 
and we might as well take it all at once rather than have it fed to 
us with a spoon. Major Lyle has. had. little to say on the subject (he 
will doubtless take his “say” out in doing), but he has put the mat­
ter this way. Discipline is up to the students themselves, it is to 
their advantage to have that discipline enforced, and they are the 
persons to see that it is so.
The advantage of that course is obvious when we consider the 
whole purpose oil the military instruction. The men now here will 
soon be called in the draft, and Tech is trying her level best to give 
them every advantage when that time comes. Whenever it is at 
all possible we want Tech men to be officers! rather than privates, and 
for that reason tlj'ey are being instructed in the drill. But an officer’s 
duty goes far beyond mere technical knowledge into the problems 
of discipline and control of other men. No man can control others 
unless he can control himself, and the time for him to learn that 
self-discipline is now while lie is training here as a member of the 
It. O. T. C.
h'urfhermore certain matters like discipline in the hallways and 
dormitories are necessary so1 as not to disturb the officers and enlisted 
men who are detailed here. Their work is vital and their time is so 
limited thlit «‘very moment is necessary. Anything which hampers 
their work in I he slightest is just doing its little bit to hinder the 
war work of the country. Th.nl; may seem like stretching a. point; 
but, like the usefulness of “Hint extra shovelful of coal,” if is un­
doubtedly true.
War brings with if many things which are inconvenient. The 
i,i(jw aeroplane building is to replace our tennis courts. The radio 
course requires the use of the Science Club Room. The beanery is not 
much more than able to handle the ever increasing crowd of soldicr- 
studeuts. Wherever these tilings are felt it will do no good to 
grumble; it is only by adapting ourselves to them, as to the military 
discipline, that we shall ever get anywhere at all. The students 
themselves must watch discipline.
Someone spotted thi$ announcement in an account of the last 
A. I. E. E. meeting: “As a war measure it was decided to replace 
the annual banquet with a luncheon—which will probably be served 
at the GERMAN club.”
Mr. Tarbell has received an application for the aeroplane course 
which was featured in last Sunday’s papers by the announcement of 
the coming erection of the Langley Laboratory of Aeronautics. The 
application was addressed to Prof. Langley, and the writer volun­
teered the information that he had never been to high school or 
college and consequently knows no chemistry but nevertheless would 
like to be an aviator. Outside of the fact that Mr. Langley has been 
dead for quite a few years and never was1 connected with Tech air­
way, we do not doubt but that the information furnished was abso­
lutely correct.
jSJSM0M3MSÍSJ3Jc!Mc!/SM3Jc!ÍSM3M3JiüMSM3M3Jc!Jc!M2MSÍSJSMSM3M3M3MM3M2MSJ5| 
BRING TECH TO TECHITES !
BRING TECHITES TO TECH!
First, considor tho valué of a eollege paper to the spirit 
¡fj of the eollege—the valué of The Tart.au to you. Considor the 
¡|Ü valué of The 'Partan to a- Techito “ovor thero.” The Tartán 
¡!|¡ ueeds your liclp in ovory wuy that you can t.hink of. Let us 
¡¡>1 have your news. Let us have the interest of more of you in
active competition for positions on the staff.
Second, if we are to bring men to Tech, we need more or 
less to advertise our college. America needs more technical 
men ; our school needs new students. The Tartan will help you 
do your bit by mailing your paper each week after you have 
read it to your High School without charge. »Leave the papers, 
properly wrapped and addressed, in the Tartan box at the Post 
Office not later than Thursday night of each week.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Tech and had some kind of pneumonia 
complications. After being operated 
on, he died on the morning., of Jan­
uary 15. As lieUvas perhaps'the first 
Tech man who died in the Service, I 
am sure that Dr. Hainerschlag would 
like to know. Perhaps he would write 
to his mother. He died on January 
15 and was buried on January 16 in 
lot No. 7, American Soldiers Section 
in the village cemetery Vittel-Vosges."
The loss of these two men adds a 
deeper significance to our service flag, 
for they are the first Tech men to 
lose their lives in the interests of 
democracy.
FRATERNITY WAR TAX
REPORTED IN COUNCIL
(Continued From Page One.) 
the members of such society, order, 
or association or their dependents.”
The fraternities represented at the 
meeting last Saturday finally reach­
ed unanimous agreement on the/ con­
stitution and elected officers as it pro­
vides. The officials for the year will 
be President, P. II. Armor; vice, presi­
dent, R. K. Lee; secretary-treasurer, 
C. IJ. Bankwitz.
The recognized fraternities com­
prising the council will hereafter be 
listed in order of organization; that is, 
national fraternities in the order of 
their installation at Tech and then 
local fraternities in the order of their 
founding. The present list is Theta 
Xi, Sigma Nu, Delta Upsilon, Sigma 
Rho, Ki Sigma Upsilon, Zeta Lambda 
Epsilon,. Woodlawn Club, and Tau 
Gamma Phi.
TO THE 
“LAFAYETTlfl ESQ LI A DRILLE”
Oh you who fly near I-Ioaven in body 
and in soul,
Whose sacrifice is nil for love, whose 
gain but honor's toll; 
in you is all the hero, the dreamer, 
lover met;
Oh can we call ybu mortal—you sons 
V of Lafayette?
You’ve deepen'd tho blue of Old Glory, 
Your loyalty’s made it more true; 
You’ve reddened the red of her cross 
bars,
By your blood and the blood that you 
drew.
And Oh, how you’ve raised her stan­
dard,
Till higher and higher she flows— 
And O! but tho crest of her eagle 
You’ve made more afeared of her foes.
When the dull gumy facts of history 
Will fade and molder away,
When the deeds of common heroes 
Will vanish like common clay,
When the fires of politicians 
Will be smothered and undertrod, 
Your names and the deeds of your 
valor
Will shine with the glory of God.
—Margaret Sondheim.
?
* BASKETBALL *41 ------- i
•1« Penn State Friday night. Be 4*
4* there. ?? ?
.t. A * .t. .T, ,T. .J. A .t. .T. .t, .1,
LECTURE ON RADIUM 
DELIVERED TO CHEMISTS
Doctor Charles Viol, of the Radium 
Research Laboratory of the Standard 
Chemical Company, delivered a most 
interesting address Wednesday night 
before the Tech Chemists’ Club, on 
the topic of “Radium and Radioactiv­
ity.” The talk was illustrated with 
numerous slides and experiments.
Dr. Viol gave especial attention to 
the use of radioactive materials for 
the illumination of airplane indicators 
and showed experimentally many of 
the features related thereto. He gave 
a brief history of the discovery of 
radium and its associated elements. 
He also explained the processes used 
in the production of radium. After 
this, Dr. Viol performed a number of 
interesting experiments with radium 
and radium compounds. This address 
may well be considered one of the 
best ever delivered before a Tech stu­
dent organization.
Preceding the lecture, nominations
were made for officers to serve the re­
mainder of the year. The names of 
the candidates appear elsewhere in 
this issue.
The next meeting of the Chemists’ 
Club will be on March 6, when Mr. 
Stark, Science, '17, will deliver a lec­
ture on “Corn Oil.”
Y. W. C. A. OBSERVES 
WEEK OF WORLD PRAYER
Those who attend the meetings lield 
in the M. M. C. S. Recreation Hall 
every Thursday evening at 6 o’clock, 
are realizing more fully each week 
that the Tech Y. W. C. A. is a real live 
organization' The meeting last week 
was in charge of Dorothy Harlow. 
Dr. and Mrs. MacGowan were guests 
of the Association. Dr. MacGowan 
told of his work in the camps and as­
sured us of the great effort being made 
by the Y. M. C. A. to have the best 
speakers and musicians entertain the 
boys. Mrs. MacGowan in the near fu­
ture will address a Y. W. C. A. meet­
ing on the achievements of the Hos­
tess House. Helen Bosworth was 
elected vice president to succeed Edith 
Gurley, who has gone bome on account 
of ill health. The girls have been 
asked to observe this week as a week 
of World Prayer. Five minute meet­
ings are being held at noon each day. 
Annette Carpenter will have charge of 
the Friendship meeting to be held on 
February 28.
DEAN CONNELLEY BUSY 
ATTENDING MEETINGS
Dean Connelley of the School of Ap­
plied Industries attended the meetings 
of the National Society for the Pro­
motion of Industrial Education at 
Philadelphia last week.
He left on Monday to attend the 
meetings of the Department of Super­
intendents of the National Educational 
Association which will be held this 
week at Atlantic City.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
HEAR INSTRUCTIVE TALK
TARTAN MAY BE SENT 
TO MEN IN FRANCE
The plan of sending The Tartan 
across the water is meeting with8 seri­
ous consideration as the following let­
ter shows:
Tartan Editor:
Dear Sir:
I have presented a measure to the 
Student Activities Board to have The 
Tartan sent to all Techites now serv­
ing and have been appointed as chair­
man of this committee of one to as­
certain what men are now being sup­
plied. I propose to check up the list of 
those serving the colors with the mail­
ing list and then to report the names 
of those not supplied with Tartans, 
when the board may extend the neces­
sary money to have the paper sent to 
them.
FRED C. WILHARM, 
Night Design.
THE BLUE-RIBBON PEST
Verily, the simp who makes a “fun­
ny” remark every time the command 
is given to dress on the second man 
to your right or left is a goat-grabber; 
and the corporal who never studies 
the drill manual is a fly in the oint­
ment; and the sergeant who calls the 
cadence on the wrong foot should be 
shot at sunrise; and the lieutenant 
who forgets to command “Parade 
Rest” while calling the roll or read­
ing orders, should be sentenced to 
wear eternally, breeches of steel and 
coat of concrete; but the blue-ribbon 
pest is the loquacious captain, who 
mistakes the company for a class[ in 
public speaking. Amen!
FIRM FAITH IN GOAL 
ALONE WILL WIN WAR
The people of the Allied nations 
should not be overconfident in the suc­
cess of their armies againt Prussian 
Kult.ur, is the opinion of Mr. Roland 
J. Usher of the Department of His­
tory, Washington University. St. Louis, 
who says:
For the present there is scarcely 
anything so important to the Allied 
Cause as a little bealtliy pessimism, a 
readiness to believe that the best is 
not inevitably true, and that the worst 
is a possibility, that the Allies are 
not necessarily invincible nor the Ger­
mans yet willing1 to admit that they 
are beaten. The truly important thing 
is not the opinion of the people about 
the progress of the war, but the im­
portance which they attach to its ob­
jectives, their determination to win 
them. The gravity of the present crisis 
will in no way shake the determina­
tion of the American people. It will 
steel their hearts, rouse their courage, 
deepen their conviction in the. neces­
sity of victory.- Only one thing can 
cause an Allied defeat—a failure of 
conviction on. the part of the British, 
French and American people of the 
greatness of democracy, of the splen­
dor of the moral crusade upon which 
they have enlisted, of the’ necessity of 
victory to make the world safe for
democracy.
The C. I. T. Branch of the American 
Institute of Electrical Engineers held 
an important and intensely interest­
ing meeting last Wednesday night in 
Machinery Hall. Mr. J. M. Brown, de­
signing engineer in the switchboard 
division of the Westinghouse Electric 
and Manufacturing Company, ¦ ad­
dressed. the club on “Recent Develop­
ments in Switchboard Design.” He 
was well qualified to speak on that 
subject, as he had had a wide experi­
ence in the design of switchboards. 
In his talk, which was illustrated with 
lantern slides, Mr. Brown included an 
extended discussion of mounted, re­
motely controlled and electrically 
operated switchboards. Valuable 
pamphlets treating on the discussed 
topic were given to every one present. 
The meeting was well attended. 
Smokes and eats were enjoyed after 
the meeting. As a war measure it was 
decided to replace the annual banquet 
with a luncheon, which will probably 
be served at the German Club.
THIRTY PLEBES WILL BE 
ENTEBTAINEB BY SOPHS
About thirty Plebes of the Science 
School have been extended a cordial 
invitation by the mebers of the Sopho­
more class of that school to be honor 
guests at a “barbecue” to be given in 
the near future. These Plebes have 
won the admiration and good will of 
the upper classmen by their wonderful 
propensity for breaking the Plebe reg­
ulations. Such a desire for wearing 
civilized caps and hats, spectrum 
hosiery and rainbow ties, has never 
before been manifested iii the mem­
ory of the oldest inhabitant.' The 
Sophs are thinking of collecting these 
forbidden pieces of apparel and trad­
ing them for a pair of rusty clippers 
and a bucket of beautiful paint.
The committee which has charge of 
the festival consists of Grant Stone, 
chairman, and ICreider, Stoy and Sea- 
bright. The cases of the refractory 
thirty will be referred by this commit­
tee to the Science Senate for indict­
ment, so that the Plebes may attend
DEMOCRACY AT WAR
(By I-Iamlin Garland)
Our Flag’s Abroad!
Let railway stocks now bleed like 
widow’s sons,
And money vaults give up their hoard­
ed gold,
As freely as the farmers give their 
grain.
Let dollars be less sacred than the 
artist’s eyes,
And ingots less than sculptor’s cun­
ning thumbs—
America’s at War.
All, All for War.
Let capital no longer order brawn to 
die,
Let wealth and pride touch elbows in 
the ranks;
Let taxes fall against ancestral parks, 
As now they fall against the small 
tilled fields,
Of. farmers -toiling to maintain a 
hearth.
Let bankers give, not loan, their inon- 
. strous stores—
Democracy’s At War!
Stamps Spread Disease.
Experiments in the laboratories of 
the University of Pennsylvania es­
tablish the fact that postage stamps 
do carry germs, and may therefore 
be classed as a disease-spreading dan­
ger. In 4S tests out of a total of 50, 
bacteria were found. The fact that 
in only two cases were the germs of 
a malignant type does not lessen in 
any degree the danger that lurks in 
wetting the gum with the tongue.
Wanted Joy Distributed.
Marion was given a beautiful ring 
Christmas eve. She was overjoyed, 
but changed it from one finger to the 
other all evening. No one noticed it 
that evening, but she kept It up the 
next morning. Her mother, fearing 
Marion would lose the ring, said: 
“Why don’t you put your ring on one 
finger and keep it there, Marion?” 
“Well, I don’t like to be mean. When 
I keep it on one finger I pity the oth­
ers.”
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
'Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig 
street.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:4& P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow)
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenuss 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. antf 3:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SH ADYSIDE PRESBYTE­
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men’s Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE ¡g
4905 FIFTH AVENUE §
Near Morewood ¡1-
Saturday Services—10:30 A. M. 
Sunday Lectures—10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead­
ing congregations of the country 
will occupy the pulpit this win­
ter. A different Rabbi each 
3 week.a
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
ALL WEEK 
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
“THE MARIONETTES”
Don’t fail to see the celebrated 
screen star in her greatest success. A 
strong cast will add to the entertain­
ment.
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
*'4«-1»P .«-F-PR E»1D-P4 
IC'K»P’
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
ÍS/2M3ÍSM213M2M3/SM3/3MSÍ2M2MS/2M2J 
I GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
3 ----------at the---------Ia a a3a a
g FRED FARGEL, ProprietoraS/3/2M2/2M3MSMSÍSMSMSEÍSJ3MSÍSMS3)
TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 27, 1918THE TARTANPage Threo
’jEjaMajiisiaEMsisiaisiaiaisiaHSJSiaaJBiaiaiEiajiMsiaaiajsiSMsiaiaBiaiaisiaisiaaisicUBiaio!
| DO YOU DANCE? s
fa DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
gj Special C.'ass for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- 
g] day, October 15. at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
j^prarnr:
I[' tkS*TTERY. i*
436 S4v4PFD *v4. ® 
All Kinds Cf S*TTERIES I 
IERVIIE R4K»-«4d »P3 R41D»«R4d I
SiHjeiJtiiJCiJiîiJeij[£JciJGiJiiiJCiJtJi=ji^Lrj[ijciJiHJniji^jizjirji=jLij[HJDijeiJiiMSMSM2ÎSiSM2MScîJüJ2i3JSM3M3MS/3/
isSHHE/ 1
IITY ELEITRII IO. î
2f3MaMaM5M2M3MaMaM2MaMaMaM3MSM2M2MSMSM2MaMaiaMaM3M3M3Ma/3-Special Notice To Students
Get your uniforms where you won’t be disappointed. We still 
have a plenty. We do not take your deposit when we cannot fill your 
order, our method of doing business is clean, you can tell our uniforms 
from the others,—they fit. Pick out a man that has a good fit, he will 
say go to KIRK'S. That’s the slogan at TECH.
UNIFORMS SHOES
CAPS SHIRTS
OFFICERS’ RAINCOATS SWEATERS
SWAGGER STICKS N SOX
KIRK’S MILITARY SHOP
108 SIXTH STREET (Formerly Federal Street) 
Represented by Harry Gellin
’ .fiafi3f3/fajpifpiipMDySf3i3M3J3M3M3M3MSMSJ
| McDOUGALL’S DANCING CLASSES
1 SHADY AND PENN—DANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY % 
| 4616 FORBES STREET—FRI DAY EVENINGS4616 FORBES STREET- 
Private Lessons and Beginners’ Classes every day and evening. 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble WaltzMirimba Orchestra [f
i5JgMgM5MgM5Mgj5M5M5J5M5M5M5M5M5MBM5M5M5M5M5J5M5M5M5MEJë!M5JQ!J
lllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllQIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllilllli
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK"
I CAPITAL, 
I SURPLUS,
SAFE DEPOSIT EOXES FOR RENT
....
----- $200,000.00
...................................................................................$200,000.00 1
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
*EI
i)iiiòiiìpiiiunniinii^iiuniiì^^diiiniiiBiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuii>
IIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIKIIIIIIH;
THE 
I SENSIBLE 
I TYPEWRITER 
§ FOR THE 
I STUDENT
CoroNA
H The Personal Writing Machlno 
M So simple in constructionM and operation that any-
B' one can use it without
g previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers’ Equipment, Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
S. K. ELLIOTT IO.
^ 126 SIXTH STREET
p’fSMSMSMS/SiSMBJSMSMSMSMSMSSMSl 
FOUR CHAIRS NO WAITING Ig 
HAIR CUTTING A SPECIALTY §
J. E. F. EC4ll4« I
SHAVING PARLOR ^
3721 FORBES STREET jjjj
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Oakland.
sffB3aEJaEJSHEi^®sia®isiBia)BŒaaB.,BJ
1 Call 343 Court or Wrlto
| SF»Pd»«d T’K4w«-F4« IC.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
g FREE DEMONSTRATION
OPEN EVENINGS W
liliifiiiiiniiiniiüiaiiiiiiüiiüiiiiiiiyiiuiüuiiiiHiiümiflfliiLUüiinHniiiiinniiiununiiKiaiHüiHi
“8GHENLEY EATS” “
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED. SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
PUBLICATIONS OF 
ENGINEERING BODY
The value of the technically trained 
engineer to American industry and es­
pecially to the railroads is described 
in the following letter of Mr. E. T. 
Perkins, president of tlie American 
Association of Engineers, to the Rail­
way Wage Commission: t
In America the railroad which has 
reached the highest standard of ellt- 
ciency and the largest earning capac­
ity is the Pennsylvania, and it is a 
significant fact that for a long term 
of years its chief executive has been 
a civil engineer who has advanced 
through the successive branches of 
employment to the commanding posi­
tion of President.
The policy of that great railroad has 
been to secure technical engineers for 
service in the various departments of 
the road and to have them apply their 
trained minds to the betterment of 
that branch of the service in which 
they have been assigned.
This practice of the Pennsylvania 
Company, however, is as exceptional 
as is the success of the company as 
a public service corporation. In too 
many, instances railroads that have 
been built by engineers are, thereaf­
ter, operated and maintained by non­
technical men, men who in time have 
acquired the experience which was 
qualified them Cor their tasks, but that 
experience is obtained at. the cost of 
the railroads, the engineers who hav 
acquired fitness at their own cost be 
ing cast adrift to find new fields of 
service.
It is true that the railroads have 
found that, for self-preservation, they 
must have an engineering department 
presided over by an educated and ex 
perienced chief; but he is seldom ade­
quately compensated for the skill he 
possesses and the heavy responsibili­
ties which he must assume; and a 
tight rein is held upon the number and 
the pay of the technical men he is al­
lowed to employ to develop his plans 
and carry them into execution.
It has taken a world tragedy, the- 
tragedy of war, to arouse the nation 
to an appreciation of the value of its 
technical men. This great strife is 
not as in other ages, a contest of brute 
force in which the bulkiest muscle is 
bound to win, but it is a battle of In­
tellectual giants struggling for su­
premacy in destructive creation and 
protective and defensive development. 
The civil engineer, the mechanical en­
gineer, the electrical engineer, the 
mining engineer, the chemical engi­
neer, the aeronautic engineer, the ma­
rine engineer—a great co-operative 
brotherhood working for peace and 
victory—have cast their skill, knowl­
edge and effort, into a crucible from 
which our country is drawing the met­
al from which victory will be fabricat­
ed and a wdrld peace be secured.
The laborer is worthy of his hire! 
and his hire should be a just reward 
for his work. That just reward the 
technical man has never had and we 
appeal to you to give it to him. He 
comes to you with no threat; he 
wields no "big stick,” but he believes 
that a tribunal organized to dispense 
justice will dispense it because it Is 
just and not because it is extorted.
in fact, is an epoch in the relation of 
engineers to national affairs. Of this 
action on the part of the President. 
Thomas A. Edison said. “This marks 
almost dramatically the entrance of 
the trained non-partisan, doing his 
work on the sole basis oC efficiency 
and integrity, into the affairs of the 
government.” The men who are thus 
chosen have an oportunity of not only 
making a name for themselves, but 
of adding much to the prestige of the 
profession, and there is no doubt what­
ever that they will do so.
The government of the United 
States appointed as Food Controller, 
Herbert Hoover, M. Am. Soc. C. E
and we may take it as an established 
fact that the engineer lias already 
proven his usefulness over and beyond 
his monetary reward. Recognition 
will coiue from corporate usefulness 
and educating the public to a better 
appreciation of. what the engineer is 
really doing. One of the technical 
journals in discussing the question as 
to when engineers will be better paid, 
says, “The inevitable conclusion of 
any careful study of this question is 
that engineers will continue to draw 
low salaries as long as they will work 
for them. Meanwhile discussion of the 
question is not wholly without value 
as men can talk themselves up to the
Canada appointed a lawyer for this point of making even a bayonet charge.
We also reprint a copy of an ad­
dress delivered before the Ottawa 
Branch of the „Canadian Society of 
Civil Engineers, by Mr. F. S. Keith. 
This address, together with the above 
letter, ought to prove of great Interest 
to many readers of The Tartan.
It would appear that the awakening 
of the engineering profession involves, 
In the first, instance, the increased rec­
ognition of the profession’s responsi­
bility to the individual, and the indiv- 
ual’s responsibility to the profession, 
and in the second place their collec 
tive responsibility to the public, and 
in turn an acknowledgment, from the 
public of the engineer’s real place in 
national affairs, which includes status 
remuneration and opportunity of ser­
vice.
You will find, generally speaking, 
that the recognition engineers have 
received has been as individuals rath­
er than as profession. Fifty years ago 
the engineer was a skilled laborer, and 
his status was such. During that time 
he has become a man, highly educated, 
highly trained, and so successful in 
his application of knowledge to ma­
terial things, that his work has 
wrought untold benefit to humanity. 
The great achievement of the engi­
neer in revolutionizing the material 
welfare of mankind has fitted him to 
shoulder greater burdens and respon­
sibilities.
The gradual evolution of the status 
of the engineer has forced him to take 
account of other laws and forces than 
those of mathematics and science, so 
that today he is compelled (almost 
without realizing it) to consider eco­
nomic and social problems, and par­
ticularly those arising out of a proper 
appraisal of equity between man and 
man. The latter includes a study of 
the complex problems of tax vaca­
tions as between individuals and cor­
porations, advice as to financing of 
public works, and advice in arriving 
at just and equitable rates for service 
rendered by public utilities. The en­
gineer is thus becoming not only one 
who directs the great sources of pow­
er in nature for the use and conven­
ience of man in the most economical 
manner possible, but he is fast becom­
ing an economist and an arbiter in in­
dustrial problems.
When a committee was apointed in 
1915 by the President of the United 
States from the National Engineering 
Societies to constitute a Naval Con­
sulting Board and Committee of In­
dustrial Preparedness, the profession 
received its highest recognition. This,
otlice. Note the difference. The en­
gineer went about his work with the 
idea foremost in his mind of carry­
ing out and securing the desired result 
for which a Food Controller was need­
ed. namely, to conserve food resources, 
assure reasonable prices, eliminate 
profiteering and assist the Allies to 
secure supplies. The work of the en­
gineer Food Controller in the United 
States has resulted in the prices of 
food products steadily decreasing, 
while in Canada during the same, per­
iod they have increased by leaps and 
bounds.
Here we have a practical, definite 
illustration of the difference of what 
is to be expected from the appoint 
ment of an engineer when something 
definite was to be done, in - contrast 
to a lawyer. This is possibly the first 
time we have had an opportunity of 
comparing the methods of the two, 
and we owe it to ourselves to educate 
the public to this fundamental differ­
ence of attitude of mind and direct­
ness of purpose between the methods 
of the engineer and the politician. The 
significance of this example cannot 
be too strongly emphasized and can­
not. be too firmly impressed upon the 
minds of the citizens of this country.
If the striking manner in which en­
gineers carry out special work assign­
ed to them is not sufficient to give the 
whole profession added prestige, then 
the part played by our gallant men in 
connection with the great war should 
surely have some effect. We have 
nearly 30 per cent of our entire mem-' 
bership actively participating in the 
war. They have performed deeds of 
bravery and endurance that would put 
to shame the heroes of history or 
mythology. They have made it possi­
ble to conduct the great campaigns by 
providing transportation, water and 
sanitary facilities, while exposed, for 
the most part, to the fire of the ene­
my, and the war will bo won largely 
by the superior engineering skill of 
the Allies in comparison with the Ger­
mans, whose whole history has been 
one of stolen ideas.
To accomplish any near approach 
to our possibilities greater unity and 
co operation will be necessary. These 
to some extent might become our 
watchwords.
Events in the world of engineering 
activities show clearly and unmistak­
ably that a new era Is drawing for 
the profession. The insularity of the 
engineering is slowly but, surely giv- 
ing way to a fraternity of spirit that 
has beon almost entirely lacking in 
the past. The former idea of special­
izing in various groups has beon trans­
formed to a broader vision with a 
tendency towards union of all branch­
es of the profession.
You have seen recently for the first 
time hi the history of the profession 
a national engineering board appoint­
ed by the United States from the par­
ent engineering societies, whose whole 
tendency seems to be towards closer 
union and greater co-operation. To 
some extent we are in a more advan­
tageous position In Canada, as wo have 
now made It. possible to unite all the 
engineering professions In one great 
national body instead of starling a 
number of organizations as was done 
in the United States. It; will mean 
that the members of our organizations 
will have to work as a unit and co-op­
erate in the closest possible manner. 
The situation affords a great oppor­
tunity to the engineering profession, 
an opportunity in which every individ­
ual may take an active part, a chance 
to advance the interests of the pro­
fession in one greal body of such 
strength of sufficiently high standard 
arid at the same time broad enough to 
make it the goal of every man in this 
country who aims or claims to be a 
member of this high calling.
We have been criticized in the past, 
not only because we were accused of 
being narrow in our objects, but also 
it was stated we were collectively 
without a soul or heart. Be that as it 
may, if the heart of the profession 
were a composite heart of the individ­
uals therein it would leave nothing to 
be desired, but we must admit there 
has been some coldness and to some 
extent indifference, and we, should 
therefore to the greatest possible ex­
tent cultivate a fraternal spirit that 
will develop a heart in our organiza­
tion, a pulsating, personal heart throb 
bing with human ''emotions, and cause 
that heart to beat warmly and sym­
pathetically not only for our own mem­
bers, but in our relations with the out­
side world.
Two definite factors in increased 
earning capacity are—additional use­
fulness and added recognition. The 
usefulness must come from within,
^ Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. E»«sD»ll | 
IC'K»P’ J
® OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE ¡3 
1 959 LIBERTY AVENUE f|
PITTSBURGH, PA.
lgjgjg/g/gjgHa/a3jajaaMaBHaiai3EJEL,ai3E/fi
Perhaps after some more years of 
discussion engineers will begin to as' 
themselves: "What are we going ‘to 
do about it?’ After some more dis­
cussion somebody will suggest that 
engineers must demand bettor pay. 
Again, after still further discussion 
the Suggestion will be adopted. Then, 
and not until then, will the engineer 
become a permanently well-paid pro 
fessional 1111111.’*,
Let me ask you, what position would 
the government of Canada be in today 
>n carrying out the nation’s work with 
out the services of the men in the en 
gineering profession? The majority of 
the departments of the Government 
would be unable to operate without 
our help. Do the political members of 
the Government realize that this is 
true? It is certain they do not. Why? 
Because we of the engineering pro­
fession have in the past taken no cor­
porate action to insure that they 
should. Instead we have to some ex­
tent acted like dumb driven creatures 
accepting the crumbs that have fallen 
by the wayside, content to sell super­
ior qualities of mind and training for a 
mess of pottage; for despite your ca­
pacity. such in general is your reward 
in comparison with your true worth. 
As individuals it may not be possible 
to force the recognition needed, but 
as a body we are a mighty power ca­
pable of securing any reward within 
reason upon which we set our minds 
and hearts. It is not only in the gov 
eminent service that, engineers recoiv 
inadequate reward, but throughout OL. 
entire profession, and particularly 
those employed at railway work.
There is one active full member of 
our Society who is a resident engineer 
011 one of the transcontinental rail 
ways, and his salary is $100 a month. 
1-Ie has a wife and family. Whose 
fault is it. that such is true? Yours and 
mine. I-Iow much longer is I10 engi 
neering' profession going to continue 
to be underpaid? Just as long as we 
permit it, and 110 longer. We have it 
in our hands to bring about a differ 
ent state of affairs, but action is re 
quired, not words. We have talked In 
the past a great deal about Inadequate 
rewards, and we may continue to talk 
but nothing will bo accomplished un­
til wo secure a higher standard of re 
ward, and we shall find the accom 
plishment so easy that; the wonder will 
be why we had not thought of doing 
so sooner. We are today exactly In 
the position of the man staying out 
ill night on his own doorstep because 
I10 thought he could not get in, only 
to find out In the morning that. Ik1 
had the key In his pocket.
The Government and railway offi­
cials and the general public have only 
a vngue conception of what they owe 
to the engineering profession for their 
material welfare, and they will con­
tinue In Ignorance until we have edu- 
ated them. In the meantime It Is 
we who are culpable, not they.
The newspapers I11 this Country are 
the great moulders of ‘public opinion, 
and it Is to them wo must look, to 
some extent, at least, for oo-opora.llon 
and assistance. For once wo have 
convinced the editors that In doing 
this they are assisting In the public 
weal, the natural patriotism that char­
acterizes the editorial body would 
prompt them to act and give their 
hearty support.
To those of you who have become 
discouraged over the outlook of the 
engineering profession, let me carry a 
note of optimism, for the star of the 
engineering profession has risen above 
the horizon; it is well started on its 
upward path of glory and eminence, 
and just as surely as the past century 
was an era of material development 
unprecedented in history, credit for 
which is largely duo to the engineer­
ing profession, just so surely will the 
coming century see a similar social Im­
provement, whereby the social condi­
tions of the great mass of mankind 
will be improved, and to a similar ex­
tent as were material conditions dur­
ing the past century, and the group 
of men who wrought the former 
change will also be responsible for 
the greater change that is to come.
The lawyer and the politician have 
admittedly failed to solve the indus­
trial relations of man to man and the 
relations between capital and labor. 
The very qualifications of min<l and 
training that have enabled the engi­
neer to so successfully grasp and solve 
any problem set before him will be 
called upon and required to solve and 
to deal with what will be after the war 
the greater problem which we have 
to face.
We find already many of the execu­
tives of large industrial concerns be­
ing chosen from our own profession 
and more and more will the men who 
have received a thorough training In 
technical matters be called to the high 
positions In Industrial affairs. Thin 
will mean Hu* opening up of a scope 
for the profession, giving rise to a fu­
ture that will place the technical man 
In control of the Industrial life of the 
nation. Coincident with that Is ar­
riving a condition whereby the engi­
neer must, besides drawing plans and 
specifications, give his advice in con­
nection with financing of any indus­
trial or engineering undertaking, so
ZfoNewMll
ArrowCOLLAR
/3/E!fSfI3/3/üî/eL13JSJË!/Sië!iîïî]S/QÎJS/ôfëî/pUSi3JS/Q?/ûî/ü*/î3. >
g!!!'....¡1i;ülliinBll||fflMljili'..........................
IVü4SSCP National! 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smitlifield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000 |
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
1111*
JSÎ3J
.3WEBER EXPRESS AND 
| STORAGE COMPANY 
|j Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
^ Moving, Packing and Storing 
3 of Furniture and Pianos. Gcn> g
§] cral Hauling Baggage to and I?
Sj from Depots. §
^ 4616-18-20 HENRY STREET
PITTSBURGH §
® E
É 
a ill ¦I ,'l iil I
I
ij
¦''.i rd
A •I .'I S 
IÊ ‘ ;¦].'I ,'l¦ I¦ I
il
MACHINERY CO.
HIGH CLASS 
MACHINERY 
PITTSBURGH, PA.•Ü œsi aa ui. •
Zoel J. Parcntcau
V. D. NIRELLA
A. David Broudy 
Efficlcncy with Elcgnnco 
THE NIRELLA ORCHESTRAS g} 
410 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Boll Phono Grant 360 
Service which Is a DiGtlnctlve 
AnBet to Hoot and HootoBB.
î,'Iei/SJï3/i3/üUID/iîî/c?/ï?^ïnJ0/i?Jüyi?Jôyiî!/(PJï3/@/c?/(3/t5/S/S/üyüi»
that the time'is Coming, and very soon,\ 
hat tho engineer Instead of receiving' 
the reward that capital Is willing to pf- 
for,- will walk hand In hand with tho 
a pi t al 1st, on an equal footing, and will 
share In the rewards that the other 
has heretofore enjoyed.
in view of such enticing prospects 
and possibilities for tho individual,, 
what limit Is there to our development, 
as a profession by acting in unison? 
Mere we are, a powerful legion with 
all the potential attributes of mind,, 
heart and soul to carry us to undream­
ed of heights of eminence, and / how 
far we shall rise as a profession is 
only limited by the minimum amount 
of effort which each and every one of 
us is prepared to give in connection 
with his fellows to make what is rea­
sonably possible a living reality.
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH 
ENTERTAINS SOLDIERS
The First Baptist Church was t’hc 
host of many of the soldiers of Tlie 
wireless course last Sunday. In tjlie 
morning the men heard the Rev. Dr. 
Frederic Galpiri preach on the War 
Savings Stamp movement. After the 
service the men were taken to tihe 
homes of the congregation for dinner.
In the evening the men were enter­
tained at a buffet luncheon in the 
church. This church Is one of several, 
which have helped Dean C. R. Bos- 
sange, chairman of the recreation and 
entertainment committee, in his work 
with the soldiers.
The committee has planned many 
entertainments and good times for 
their charges. Although these plans 
have, as yet, assumed no definite 
forms, the soldiers will soon be pro­
vided with plenty of recreation ¿nd 
amusement.
B1FFEN IS RE-ELECTED 
SOPHOMORE PRESIDENT
James F. Glffen was re-elected presi­
dent of the Science Sophomore class 
yesterday. The other officers for the 
semester will be C. A. Stone, vice 
president; Grant C. Stone, treasurer, 
and Clayton, s,ecret;ary.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage FourTHE TARTANWednesday, February 27, 1918
P. LUDEBUEHL 8 SOi
SHOES *NO HOSIER! PENN *ND FEKSTOE 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oftr* 
an not told by his footv/car—if he I- 
carelcss of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. 11 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are "all right." Our 
Shoes arc built by sorpe of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Men’s Dept.
SEVEN OFFICERS ARRIVE 
TO INSTRUCT SOLDIERS
WESTMINSTER FIVE WINS 
FAST GAME FROM TECHW. M. LAIRD CO.
Mllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
UA National Institution
lll-llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
¡-ll-P-!lllll!lllllllllllll!llllllllllllll[|lll!lll!l!lll-ll!ll-llllll!llllllll!lllFl!llll!ll-P-ll!lllllllllll!lll!lll!llll-lllllll!!l!l!ll!llllllll!!!lllllll-;-lll:-l[|||llllllllllll[ll-:-!l-:-ll![l!lll!l!l!lllll>!lllllllllllllllllll!lll-P-lllll!!UllU^
M. M. C. S. WAR COURSE 
IS LIMITED TO FORTY
Applications for admission to the 
war course in stenography, which 
started last Monday in M. M. C. S., 
were so numerous that it was neces­
sary to limit the number of applica­
tions accepted to forty.
The purpose of this course is to be 
of service to the government, so far 
as possible in. supplying its urgent 
need for stenographers in Washing­
ton and other cities. It consists of an 
intensive course of instruction in 
•shorthand, typewriting, and business 
principles. The course is planned for 
fifteen weeks and will end June 7. 
Classes are scheduled for full time, 
8:30 to 3:30 daily, except Saturdays, 
some of these hours being supervised 
study hours. Five lectures a week 
are given on business principles—in­
cluding correspondence, filing and in­
dexing, essentials of bookkeeping, of­
fice routine, office appliances, etc.
Only women with a high school edu­
cation or its equivalent are eligible 
for this course, college graduates es­
pecially 'having been urged to apply, 
as they are particularly needed. Pre­
vious business training or experience 
is not necessary.
Students1 who complete this course 
will be trained for some definite work 
of service to their country. Govern­
ment organizations are continually ad­
vertising for stenographers, and with 
the confidence that they are meeting 
a Very real demand.
Applicants for admission to this 
course pledge IhemselvoB patriotically 
to do their best in pursuing it and af- 
tor completing tho course to apply I in* 
training received to some form of war 
service, so far as possible,
ALUMNI ARE OFFERED 
MILITARY INSTRUCTION
WHITE HOUSE PICKET 
ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY
To hear a former White House 
Picket speak on the Federal Suffrage 
Amendment will be the good fortune 
of the M. M. C. S. faculty and students 
when Miss Iris Calderhead, of Wash­
ington, D. C., speaks in the M. M. C. S. 
general assembly,..on V' ednesday, Feb­
ruary 27, at 11:30. All classes will 
be dismissed to hear Miss Calderhead, 
who in addition to being a former 
White House Picket, is an important 
member of the Woman's National 
Party. She is a graduate of the Uni­
versity of Kansas.
Seven more United States Army 
officers, who will instruct enlisted 
radio machinists in intensive radio 
and aviation courses at Tech, arrived 
in Pittsburgh during the past week. 
They were Captain Houston, who will 
supervise the instruction, and Lieu­
tenants Dawson, Minor, Daniels, Bar­
ker, Domer and Arnold. There are 
now fifteen oflicers at Tech to instruct 
enlisted men in radio and aviation 
courses.
Two hundred and flfity men are 
taking these courses, ninety-five of 
whom are quartered in Masonic Tem­
ple, Fifth and Tennyson avenues* 
The others are quartered in the dor­
mitories and in neighboring rooming 
houses. Captain Houston expects four 
hundred more such students within 
the next ten days, These will prob­
ably be housed in Soldiers’ Memorial 
Hall, Syria Mosque and Motor Square 
Garden. In addition, large numbers 
of enlisted Government students will 
continue to arrive after March 20, and 
by the middle of May at least two 
thousand men will be here. In the 
meanwhile, such students will be grad 
uated and sent to training camps 
throughout the country at the rate of 
about one hundred a month.
Preparations are going on for ac­
commodating this large number of 
men. Already several rooms of the 
Science School have been equipped 
with apparatus necessary for instruc­
tion in radio work, and it is highly 
probable that the club room, which has 
been closed for repairs by the School 
Senate, may also be used for this pur­
pose.
To augment this number of enlisted 
men there are also about a hundred 
Pittsburgh draftees who have been 
taking the night radio course and who 
have been called for service. These 
have been taken into the national ser­
vice by Captain Houston and will be 
transferred to the day course with the 
other enlisted men. They will soon be 
provided with uniforms.
M. M.C.S. ; 
SALE OF THRIFT STAMPS
By action of the Faculty Military 
Committee, last Monday, any gradu­
ate or former student of C. 1. T. who 
is awaiting call to the national service, 
may take tho course in military in­
struction at l’eoh without payment of 
any fee.
Margaret Morrison girls have taken 
up the campaign for the selling of 
War Stamps with the same spirit of 
enthusiasm which has always charac­
terized their interest in the war work. 
After the Hon. James Francis Burke 
had addressed the assembled school 
on February 4, explaining the value 
of 'the Savings Stamps to the individ­
ual as a. means of thrift and fo Ihe 
country as an aid in financing the war, 
the entire student body began plans 
I to organize for a strenuous campaign.
Although the Organization has not 
yet been completed,' interest has not 
been permitted to wane. Under tho 
leadership of Miss Florence Bechtel, 
president of the Student Senate, tho 
stamps have beon kept on sale and at 
tlie present date over $378 worth have 
been sold in the school. This does liot 
Include fin» sales amounting to $05 
made by Mr. Burke’s representatives 
at the time of ills visit to tho college.
Complete organization for tlie War 
Savings campaign has been started by
I,lie election of Miss Helen Senn to the 
office of general chairman of the Wtt 
Savings Committee, with the powe 
to appoint a captain from each class, 
to I)»' responsible for the conducting of 
all sales within her own class. Tho 
captains may select their own assis- 
tantvi. This arrangement is confident­
ly expected to bring even better re­
sults than^ those of tho past few 
weeks.
THISTLE CAMPAIGN WILL 
BEEXTENDEDTWO WEEKS
The final Thistle Campaign opens 
Monday, March 4, and will continue in 
full force till March 15, Friday of the 
following week. This is your last op­
portunity to buy a 191S Thistle and 
two weeks should be ample time for 
every Techite to produce the neces­
sary dollar deposit. A Techite with­
out a Thistle, is like a dog without a 
tail. Part of him is missing—the part 
that expresses joy, animation, and a 
lively interest in the affairs of his 
little world. Don’t be deformed.
We want this fo be the snappiest 
campaign on record and this means 
the co-operation and interest of every­
one. The agents can not be every­
where at once; you can help by going 
to one of tho agents in your school 
with your subscription. In year books, 
as in everything else, the latest stands 
the best chance of being the best. 
Now is the time to avoid disappoint­
ment. Buy a Thistle.
Many men are 'enlisting with the 
Fuller Brush organization. Last year 
many Tecli men paid all or part of 
their expenses selling Fuller Sanitary 
Brushes, working spare time and 
during summer vacation, and quite a 
number are taking up tho work this 
year. This is an unusual line, nation­
ally advertised, and gives a square 
deal to all. You should talk this over 
with Yost, I-Iain or Trader, or call at 
office, 017 Ferguson Bldg., and day be- 
tewen •! and 6 p. m.
Last Saturday night Westminster 
succeeded in nosing Tech out of a 
victory by four points. Every week 
seems to see some member of the bas­
ket ball squad leave school. Just be­
fore the trip last week Abrams was 
called info the service and immediately 
after the trip Kofoed decided to drop 
out of school until he was called into 
the aviation service.
Tech started the game off with a 
rush, riming the score up to 6-1 in 
its favor. Westminster then trailed 
along until the score was 15-8. Four 
field goals in succession and a foul I 
pulled their tally up to 17. The first 
half ended 24-18 in favor of Westmin­
ster.
The second period was played in 
quarters. The Tech five returned to 
the floor determined to fight as it 
never had before. By the end of the 
third quarter, Westminster, however, 
had raised its six point lead to a nine 
point lead. The score stood 26 to 35.
The fastest playing of the game 
came in the last period, when Tech 
played rings around Westminster, but 
only succeeded in reducing the nine 
point lead five points. Westminster 
raised its tally four points through a 
field goal and two fouls. “Gretz" and
I-Ioban each dropped in a field goal, 
while “Jimmy" Doherty caged a field 
goal and three fouls. The final score 
was 35-39.
Loghrie, Westminster's Captain and 
star forward, played the fastest game 
of the evening. He shot six field 
goals. Armstrong, our opponent's cen­
ter, also played an excellent game. Of 
the 39 points scored, he made 23.
Doherty starred for Tech. He 
scored three field goals each half and 
made 11 out of the 24 fouls. Gretzler 
placed four field goals to his credit 
and played an excellent game. Coach 
Larnbie, of Westminster, considered 
“Gretz" his team’s most dangerous op­
ponent,
Cosgrove played his usual good 
style of basket ball. Cruse started in 
Ko feed's place. I-Ie surely played with 
all the life that was in him. A little 
more experience and he will round 
out into a good guard. Leet, who 
played for the Plebes during the great 
er part if tlie second half, also played 
for the varsity during the second half 
in Cosgrove’s place. He is speedy and 
excellent in his guard work. Tech. 
has in-iiim a good prospect for a reg­
ular guard on next year's team. The 
line-up.was as follows:
Westminster—39. Tech Va.r—35.
Wiremair................F.........................Doherty
Loghrie .................F.......................... Hoban
Armstrong .............C..................... Gretzler
Lewis .......................G.................. Cosgrove
Cummings .............G........................... Cruse
Substitutions—Leet for Cosgrove, 
Mayer for Hoban, Wire for Cruse. 
Field goals—Wireman, 2; Loghrie, 0; 
Armstrong, 2; Doherty, 6; Gretzler, 4; 
Cosgrove, 2. Foul goals—Armstrong,
15 out of 27; Doherty, 11 out of 24. 
Referee—Mates.
622 LIBERTY AVENUEPITTSBURGH
Largest Shoe House
BETWEEN NEW YORK AND CHICAGO 
Headquarters for the regulation “Munson" Last Army Shoes. 
MR. W. C. SEABR1GHT, Science, Carnegie Tech, Representative.
ALPHA TAll INITIATES; 
COMPILES HONOR ROLL
The Mid-year Initiation and Banquet 
of Alpha Tau, the Honorary Fraternity 
of the School of Applied Industries, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology was 
held last Saturday evening at Hotel 
Chatham.
'Phe following initiates were taken 
in: Frederick Carl Beede, ’19; Francis 
Temple Denman, ’18; Gilbert Tanner 
Ileddaeus, ’IS; Ralph K. Merker, ’18; 
and Clare W. Wilson, '20.
Professor J. T. Morris, Head of the 
Mathematics Department in the School 
of Applied Industries, was the prin­
ciple speaker of the evening. F. J. 
Hartman acted as toastmaster, and 
each of the members present respond­
ed with an impromptu speech.
The feature of the program was the 
Honor Roll, which at present has two 
faculty members and twenty-one stu­
dent members on it. Among the fac­
ulty mebers, Dean C. B. Connelley is 
engaged in Civilian Service and Pro- 
fesor C. C. Leeds also in civilian ser­
vice.
The students from the class' of 1916 
are:
Harry W. Carlson, Camp Sheridaii, 
Alabama.
Raymond D. Junkins, Camp Lee, Vir­
ginia.
Lewis P. Moon, Am. Exp. Force, 
France.
James M. Moore, Camp Dix.
Fred R. Offinger, Aviation Service.
Myron Sadler, Camp Dodge, Iowa.
George W. Straclian, Gas Defense 
Serv., Washington, D. C.
Roy H. Zeilman, Aviation Service, 
Texas.
From Class of 1917:
R. J. Brocker, Camp Lee, Virginia.
C. IT. Dowman, Aviation Service, 
Dallas, Texas.
W. D. Green, Camp Wadsworth, S. C.
E. C. Hoye, Camp Sherman, Ohio.
C. E. Rutherford, Camp Sherman,
Ohio.
S. H. Jones, Camp Sherman, Ohio.
O. D. Kingsbury, Aviation Service, 
Michigan.
C. K. Koontz, Naval Service.
F. J. O’Brien, Camp Hancock, Ga.
Class of 1916:
F. R. Miller, Camp Devans, Mass.
C. F. Seidel, Aviation Service.
L. W. Walker, Camp Hancock, Ga.
T. J. Williams, "Somewhere in 
France."
Daily Thought.
Conversation is the vent of character 
as well as of thought.—Emerson.
FREDERICK’S
The House of Service
Victor Record Service
Means Prompi and Courteous Attention
All the Records you ask for, and Homelike Parlors on first and 
second floors for demonstration.
We have in stock the following:
64696—Keep the Home Fires Burning 
35663—Missouri Waltz 
18386—It's a Long Way to Berlin 
87282—Just Before the Battle Mother 
35651—Gems from Oh Boy 
18391—The South Will Do Her Part 
64716—Sing Me Love's Lullaby 
35660—Rambler Rose
These Records are not only fine selections, but have a large sale.
If you have old records bring them in; we will 
ship them to the boys in the camps.—W. F. Fred­
erick Piano Company.
W. F. FREDERICK PIANO CO.
635 Smithfield Street
“Instant Record Service” First Floor at the Door.
Hear SCHUMAN-HEINK Sing “Just Before the Battle, Mother/'
H STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS |]
E] New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at [3 
|p Bargain Prices. §
ORCHESTRA AND TENOR DRUMS [I
Two genuine Ca|f Skin Heads, 15 inches in diameter, 9 thumb 
screw rods, solid maple shell and best grade of snares.
Value $21, special for this week, each...........................................
GALLINGER’S
929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854
$12.00
ATTENTION!!
Your uniform and equipments can be secured at 
u very low figure. All U. S. Regulation goods. We 
have on hand a full supply of:
O. D. WOOL BLOUSE AND BREECHES... .$18.00 
O. D. COTTON BLOUSE AND BREECHES. .$6.25
Caps.............$1.50-$2.00TRENCH COATS.$8.50 :j:
SHOES...................$6.50MACKINAWS ..$16.50 $
SHIRTS.................$3.50SWEATERS ....$4.00 |
HATS.....................$1.75GLOVES...................90c I
MILITARY BOOKSINSIGNIAS.............15c t
OVERCOATSPUTTEES....$2.00 up f 
--------------------------------------- X
Army & Navy 
Store Co.
Incorporated 
LARGEST MILITARY OUTFITTERS 
REMOVED TO
623 Liberty Avenue
Bell Phone Court 4450
Danger of Overconfidence.
No human attribute is as dangerous 
to its possessor and to others a)3 over- j 
coniidcnce. Inefficiency, even, isn’t j 
as apt to provoke disaster. My pa­
tience is small with those who claim 
that success merely depends on a 
man’s confidence in liimself. Self- 
confidence alone never won any of the 
battles of life.—Exchange.
A set of good drawing instruments. 
Please return to Mir. Smith; Manual 
Training Department. $2.00 reward.
GEO. WEBB.
**CHEMISTS’ CLUB**NOMINATIONS**?*President—.?
*Blau*
*Fair*
*Vice President—*
*Nemser?
Secretary—*
*Le Jeune?
*Sachs*
*Treasurer—?
*Gillett*
*Paulus*
*
? *i**********++****
13141259
