The Carnegie Tartan
|1_______________________________________________ ^__________________________________________________________
Vol. 36. No. tfrCARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942
Galbraith, Boyce To Head Council
Carnegie Acclaims 
Student Martyrs
In September, 1942, the Interna­
tional Yout|i Assembly in Washing­
ton declared November 17 a day on 
which to commemorate the suffer­
ings and struggle of students 
throughout the world, and especial­
ly of the students in countries oc­
cupied by the Axis. Mayor Scully 
has proclaimed that same day the 
International Student’s Day, and 
millions of young men and women 
will celebrate November 17 in the 
U. S., Britain, Russia, and wherever 
men are free to show their thoughts 
and feelings.
What was the occasion for choos­
ing November 17 as International 
Student’s Day? On October 28, 
1939, the anniversary of the Czech­
oslovak national liberation, demon­
strations took place throughout 
Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia. In 
Prague, university students took 
part in the demonstrations, despite 
Herr von Neurath’s prohibition. 
Students were wounded and killed; 
others were arrested and tortured 
by the Gestapo. A fortnight later, 
the parents of Jan Opletal, one of 
the students arrested on that day, 
were informed that he had suc­
cumbed to the wounds he had re­
ceived from the Germans.
Students turned out in large num­
bers to attend his funeral. Huge 
crowds a sembled, and the students 
sang the Czech and Slovak national 
anthems. Yet the Germans did noth­
ing at the time. Although the funer­
al took place amidst general excite­
ment, order was not distrubed;
(Continued on page 5)
Dr. Kellog Addresses 
Tau Beta Pi Assembly 
Today in Little Theater
Dr. David R. Kellogg, Assistant to 
the Manager of the Engineering 
Laboratories and Standards Depart­
ment at the Westinghouse Company 
will speak at today’s assembly 
which is sponsored by Tau Beta Pi. 
His talk will concern the vitally im­
portant “Use of Substitutes and Al­
ternate Materials in Today’s Pro­
duction.”
Dr. Kellog believes that instead 
of being one of the “have” nations, 
the United States has become one 
of the “have not” nations. The sup­
ply of many of the ordinary sub­
stances used in manufacture is not 
sufficient to fill all of the needs for 
war purposes, let alone leave any 
for civilian consumption. Materials 
such as rubber, tin, chromium, and 
tung oil, and many others formerly 
imported from countries now occu­
pied by the enemy, are either not 
available at all or only available in 
small quantities.
Examples of substitutes that 
have been made, are the use of 
wood in place of metal, the use of 
ordinary carbon steel instead of 
special alloys containing nickle and 
chromium, and the substitution of 
synthetic compounds for rubber.
Having received his B. S. degree 
from Rhode Island State University, 
and his Ph. D. from Ohio State Uni­
versity, Dr Kellogg taught physics 
and chemistry at Ohio State «Uni­
versity for five years. He has been 
affiliated with the Westinghouse 
Company for 2 years, engaged in 
the research, development, and test­
ing of new materials.
Jack Shore Attends Tribune Forum
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is sending Jack Shore, Chem. ’43, as 
its representative to the eleventh 
Forum on Current Problems to be 
held under the auspices of the New 
York Herald Tribune on Monday 
and Tuesday, November 16 and 17, 
at the Waldorf Astoria.
Among the government, military, 
and educational leaders who will ad­
dress the sessions of the forum, will 
be Elmer Davis, Director of the Of­
fice of War Information, Claude R. 
Wickard, Secretary of Agriculture, 
President Roosevelt, Wendell Will- 
kie, Sumner Wells, and Sir Staf­
ford Cripps.
The general theme of the Forum, 
is “Our Fight For Survival in a Free 
World.” The first session Monday 
afternoon will be devoted to “In­
suring World Order During the 
Armistice.” It will be concerned 
with economic, political, and social 
problems which face the United 
States in the Post-War era.
President Roosevelt plans to ad­
dress the closing session Tuesday 
night from the White House. Other 
speakers of the evening wilj be
Bob Galbraith To Get Student Council Prexy 
Post; Jim Boyce, Treasurer’s Job Tonight
Pitt, Pa., Nov. 17—(By Rapid Transit Carrier Pigeon, Special to the CAR­
NEGIE TARTAN)—Tonight, at exactly 7:29 o’clock, Carnegie Tech’s Student 
Council will elect Robert Galbraith, M. E. ’44, and James Boyce, Drama ’44, to 
serve as President and Treasurer, respectively, on the coming year’s Council. 
As for the new Secretary, well, the Rapid Transit Company’s pigeon didn’t 
specify whether it would be Sally Moir, Betsy Beall, or Judy Skeehan. Close 
sources do inform us though, that the Independent’s pride and joy, Chuck
Bob Galbraith 
New Council President
fleefi ße&p.
Charles Boyer, popular French ac­
tor; Bebum Shah Naivaz of the 
Punjab Parliament, only woman 
member of India’s Defense Council; 
and Lieutenant Commander Rob­
ert B. Kelly U. S. N., one of the four 
torpedo boat officers whose experi­
ences in the Philippines are recount­
ed in the best seller, “They were Ex­
pendable.”
Tech To Produce 
Miniature Cars
By official decree of the Carnegie 
Tech War Stamp Committee, the 
Carnegie Campus is now a vital De­
fense Factory. Every Tech student 
is now a regular Defense worker. 
What are you going to produce?— 
Jeeps! Your production schedule 
calls for one of them every week. 
How are you going to meet your 
production requirements? .It’s very 
simple.
It will cost the plant $900 to pro­
duce one jeep. All 2,000 workers 
are going to pay the boss — Uncle 
Sam! He is one boss you can de­
pend on never to discriminate as to 
race, color, or religion. He’s asking 
for a very small sum—only 50c a 
week!
The production line will begin op­
erations this morning in Adminis­
tration Hall and in the Auto Lab­
oratory next to the Beanery. For a 
stipulated purchase of war stamps 
(we’re keeping it a secret until you 
buy) you will get a free ride in a 
real-honest-to-goodness jeep over a 
specially created obstacle course in 
the Auto Lab. And when a jeep is 
purchased, the army will send one 
up to our campus. At a gala cere­
mony, the jeep will be launched; on 
the side of the little puddle-jumper, 
in big printed letters, will be the 
words “Carnegie Tech,” in appre­
ciation of the donors.
Jim Boyce 
New Council Treasurer
Jones, will be the new Viee-Presi- 
dent of that latent, Student Coun­
cil.
This is the latest information as 
to the abilities and characteristics of 
Messrs. Galbraith and Boyce. As 
Bob Galbraith says, “Being Pres­
ident of the Theta Xi house and a
Polling Places
John Beatty, Chairman of the Elec­
tions Committee, announces that there 
will be two polling places available for 
today’s election of President of the 
Engineering Senate. One will be in 
Administration Hall, and the other in 
room 152 of Industries Hall between 
11:30 and 2:30. Students must pre­
sent their athletic cards to vote.
member of Scabbard and Blade 
takes most of my time.” However, 
we understand that he does manage 
to squeeze in time to be a member 
of the Carnegie Tech Swimming 
Team. As for Jim Boyce, we find 
that he now serves the old Student 
Council as an Assistant Treasurer. 
He was Business Manager of Scotch 
’n Soda for two years and is now a 
member of the Scottie staff. He is, at 
the present time, Steward of the 
Delta Upsilon House.
The Tartan regrets that it is una­
ble to give the results of the elec­
tions for Engineering, Arts, and Mar­
garet Morrison sophomores at this 
time. The fact, that this election is 
scheduled for next Wednesday, No­
vember 25th, may have something 
to do with it. Nevertheless, the 
Tartan guarantees to continue its 
present, “up-to-the-minute” news 
policy.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942
tfrJa 'WatchtaweA.
Why No School Spirit; at Tech?
A frequent topic for discussion is the lack of school spirit on the Car­
negie Tech campus. Pep rallies are usually unsuccessful, and the excuse 
generally accepted is that the students will not turn out to support a losing 
team. Pep rallies however are the end result, not the origin, of school 
spirit. People can’t be expected to stand up and cheer for a cause in which 
they have no concern. Students can hardly watch every play in a football 
game with interest, and thrill to every advance made by their team, when 
all week they have been thinking of nothing but quizzes, assignments, and 
quality points.
Students at Carnegie Tech have no interest in the fortunes of their 
football team because they have no interest in anything else which hap­
pens on campus. All they ask of a college education is a mass of facts and 
figures. Their goal in life seems to be merely to function as glorified 
sliderules. Little wonder it is that when an emotional crisis, such as the 
present war, strikes the typical Tech student, he goes to pieces psycho­
logically. Those Carnegie Tech students who are demoralized and 
apathetic are the ones who have never found a satisfactory outlet for their 
social energies. They spend their free time playing pool or idly glancing 
over picture magazines. They have never realized the tremendous possi­
bilities of extra-curricular activities as a form of self-expression and emo­
tional release. When the time comes that they realize they should be 
getting more out of their college education than they are, they have no 
course of action but to go right on shooting pool and wasting time.
Unequal Basis of Competition
If everyone participated in campus activities on an equal basis, the 
solution to the problem would be quite simple. Unfortunately, however, 
the majority of students don’t try out for activities because they are told 
beforehand that they haven’t a chance. Of course heads of all organiza­
tions which are run by any one particular group, assert time and again 
that they show no favoritism in the selection of their members. The real 
fact is that they are glad to have all those who are willing to do the routine 
work as long as they “remain in their places” and don’t expect any honor 
and glory. The Thistle staff, for instance, welcomes with open arms all 
those interested in working for the yearbook, and yet content to bask in 
the reflected glory of the Betas at the top. The Freshman Handbook staff 
and the Scottie staff moan because of lack of student interest, and yet it 
would be ridiculous for an outsider to hope to attain a high position on 
either of these publications. Every year sixty former high school editors 
and business managers enter Carnegie Tech, and yet these persons who 
obviously are interested in journalism and are urgently needed for the 
Tartan staff, are discouraged from going out for the college newspaper 
under present conditions.
No doubt there is a gold mine of cheerleading talent available in the 
school, but none of it is discovered under the present system which as­
sumes cheerleading to be the exclusive privilege of one fraternity. Doubt­
less too there are many non-fraternity men interested in student affairs 
who never have a chance to express themselves as members of student 
council because of our obviously undemocratic form of representation.
Only those within a certain group know who the leaders in most 
activities are. If all the students competed for these top positions equally, 
everyone would know who the campus leaders are, all students would 
attend the big social functions, and no one would have need to be con­
cerned about school spirit.
Three-point Proposal
To bring genuine school spirit to Carnegie Tech, we should like to pro­
pose a three-fold program for campus activities:
1. An activities office which would keep a record of each student, his 
scholastic work and his activities; and whose duty it would be to inter­
view and counsel each student individually in at least one private confer­
ence a year.
2. A method of selecting members of organizations, and especially 
of publications, which will prevent monopoly by any one campus group.
3. A new awakening on the part of students, faculty, and administra­
tion to the value of extra-curricular activities and a well-rounded 
education.
All this will, of course, fall on deaf ears, for the prevailing attitude is 
that the present system is inevitable and attempts at reform are doomed to 
failure. Especially it is said that reforms made now count for nothing be­
cause the school will soon be taken over by the government. Our reply 
to this cynicism is that now is the time to put through necessary changes 
so that when the school resumes normal again it will be unencumbered 
by worn-out traditions and regulations.Walter Haller.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
On the Lighter Sideby Art North
The Carnegie Tartan
Canteri« Institute of Teehnolofy, Schenley Park, Pittiborgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *«90 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
NWNHTID ron NATIONAL AOVMTISINO BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
CMetß Publishers Representative
Vol .36NCAR Ave 
•osto«
New Yornc N. Y. 
|1T he1eCarCn
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief...................................SC. 9070
Business Manager...............................SC. 9855
________________Advertising Manager.................BR. 4759
Entered u H(*Ba-eUH matter In tue Pittsburg Post Office under tbe Act of March S, 187#. 
Published weekly durine school year, except holiday* and examination periods. Subscription Price 91.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................LeowrdChotiner
Business Manager...........................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
This Pint Of Blood You Want To Donate, 
Do Yolu Have It With You?
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 
7:15 p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Curry, Dolan, Thomp­
son, Whiteside, and Miss Gehrett. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget Committee
Mr. Shewitz moved for the approval of 
a $25 appropriation for the use of the In­
ternational Relations Club to send a dele­
gate to a convention at Princeton on De­
cember 5.
Motion carried.
Social Committee
Mr. Spitaleri moved that the Cwens be 
permitted to hold their Annual Founder’s 
Tag Day on November 17.
Motion defeated.
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved that the date for all 
school elections be changed from Novem­
ber 24 to November 25 with the polls re­
maining open from 11:30 to 2:30.
Motion carried.
Mr. Beatty moved that the following 
emergency regulations to govern the No­
vember elections be approved:
1. Any vacancy in Student Council 
representation as a result of an ex­
pedited graduation shall be filled 
from the highest ranking class re­
maining in attendance.
2. One of the assistant treasurers will 
become treasurer, and the two as­
sistants not elected shall become 
voting old assistant treasurers. 
Three new assistants will be elect­
ed from the Sophomore Class.
3. One of the present assistant secre­
taries will be elected secretary for 
the coming term. A new assistant 
secretary will be elected from the 
present Junior Class in M. M. In 
the spring the secretary and the 
three assistant secretaries will be 
eligible for the office of secretary 
for the next term.
4: Unless otherwise stated, the term 
of any position elected to Council 
will still be one from the time of 
election.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys
Mr. Lochhead read a list of organiza­
tions petitioning for keys: Intersorority
Council, Women’s Dorm Council, Student 
Council, Men’s Glee Club, and Women’s 
Glee Club. He moved for the approval 
of these petitions.
Motion carried.
Special Committee
Miss Aronson announced that there will 
be an informal gathering at eight o’clock 
in the Union on the night of November 17. 
This will be held in connection with In­
ternational Students’ Day.
Permanent Decorations
Mr. Reisacher reported that bills will 
be sent to the Military Ball, Dorm Coun­
cil, and Interfratemity Council for their
Annual Carnegie Day 
Marks 108 Anniversary
Next Tuesday Carnegie Tech will 
have its thirtieth annual observance 
of Carnegie Day. Each year, just 
before the Thanksgiving recess, the 
school holds an assembly at the Car­
negie Music Hall in commemoration 
of the birthday of Andrew Carne­
gie. This year marks the one hun­
dredth and eighth anniversary of his 
birth. An address by President Rob­
ert E. Doherty will highlight the 
program.
At 10:30 all classes will recess to 
enable students to attend the assem­
bly. The program will start at 
eleven o’clock and all classes will 
resume at 1:30.
James Hunter ’44 will open the 
program proper with March from 
“Third Organ Symphony” by Widor. 
An invocation by the Reverend Leo 
A. Kraus of St. Paul’s Cathedral and 
Chaplain for Carnegie Tech Cath­
olic students will follow. Greetings 
from the Alumni will be given by 
Mr. Thomas D. Jolly, Vice President 
of the Aluminum Company of 
America. President Doherty will 
then award cups to the sorority and 
fraternity which compiled the high­
est average factor during the past 
school year, and also to the dormi­
tories which achieved that distinc­
tion.
use of the permanent decorations.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. McDonald read a proposal drawn 
up by the group interested in proportional 
representation to Student Council for the 
revision of the Constitution of Student 
Council. This was not a formal proposal, 
and it will be placed on the president’s 
desk for those who wish to read it.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. McDonald moved for the approval 
of a solicitation by Sigma Alpha Iota for 
contributions for a Record Library to be 
sent to a branch of the Armed Forces.
Motion carried.
Mr. Elliott, the new Alumni Secretaipr, 
spoke to Council about the importance of 
the graduates keeping the Alumni Office 
informed of their movements after grad­
uation.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR,¦x • Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Courtesy of the School of Fine Arts, Public Building Administration
Mr. McCleary Back From Washington, 
Does Massive Mural for War Dept.
Kindred McCleary, assistant pro­
fessor of architectural design, is now 
back on the campus after an extend­
ed leave of absence. Mr. McCleary 
had been working in Washington 
for the past year painting a large 
mural for the War Department.
This mural, one of the largest 
ever painted in this country, depicts 
the purpose of the army in guarding 
the fundamental freedoms guar­
anteed by our democracy. It shows 
groups of soldiers enveloped in the 
protective arms of the bald eagle 
which is standing guard over citi­
zens who are engaged in peacetime 
activities. This massive work was 
painted on a wall opposite the en­
trance lobby of the War Depart­
ment building at 21st and Virginia 
Avenue in Washington. It covers 
an area 12 feet high and fifty feet 
long.
Mr. McCleary’s mural was done 
in fresco—that is, tempera on plas­
ter. The medium is difficult and re­
quired the artist to first arrange his 
material on the wall with a care­
fully planned outline. The outline 
was worked out on ordinary wrap­
ping paper, fifty feet long and then 
transferred to the wall by a charcoal 
tracing after which each segment 
had to be done over in pencil in or­
der to make the tracing adhere to 
the surface permanently.
Because the details of Mr. Mc­
Cleary’s mural are very intricate, 
comprising actual, details of army 
machinery and guns, the job of 
plotting the frame work took a long 
time and was one reason for Mr. 
McCleary spending more than a 
year on this painting. The attached 
photograph of a segment from the 
wall painting gives evidence of the 
intricacy of the details, which in­
clude accurate reproductions of sol­
diers, weapons, and kits. This mural 
will be later sent to an exhibit of 
similar works to be held in South 
America and sponsored by the Sec­
tion of Fine Arts, Washington, D. C.
TI» _____DARTMOUTH '*
An easy-going oxford with com­fortable moccasin tip. Brown antique finish; rugged sole. Smart for sport o* semi-dress. Style Nfe 
0634.
Douglas " Down-to-tbe- Wood n construeitow /assures you betterfit, greater eenforU f
OUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON, MASS
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. 66223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) 
1202 Market St., Wheeling *Open Evenings
~ ^¡¡SiWlliTER FASHIONS IN UDY DOUGLAS SHOES $3.45 - $4.45 — $5.4S ‘
Victory Speakers 
Present Problems
In cooperation with the U. S. Of­
fice of Education and the Office of 
War Information, the sub-commit­
tee on American Unity of the C. I. T. 
War Committee is organizing a 
speakers’ group. It is the purpose 
of the group to discuss current war 
problems and to anticipate those 
which will occur in the post-war 
period with local community 
groups.
At present it is the committee’s 
concern to organize and prepare fac- 
ulty-student and all-student groups 
to lead discussions centering around 
the topic, “The United Nations.” 
Materials and data are being gath­
ered for the use of these speakers’ 
groups on such questions as: Who 
are the United Nations? Why did 
these nations unite? What are these 
nations fighting for? What are these 
nations doing to win? Can these na­
tions stay united in peace?
All students, as independents or 
as fraternal or other groups, are en­
couraged to develop their own 
speakers groups with the assistance 
and advice of this sub-committee. 
The main purpose of this service for 
campus and community use is to de­
velop intelligent opinion wherever 
possible on war and post-war issues. 
This is no flag-waving, chauvinistic 
project; it is a serious endeavor to 
disseminate such facts and informa­
tion as will aid the members of our 
society to act intelligently and co­
operatively with all those who shall 
be our allies and friends in the fight­
ing and world-building that is 
ahead.
All students interested in partici­
pating in this project either as in­
dividuals or as groups should com­
municate with Dr. H. G. Schrickel, 
Department of Psychology and Ed­
ucation, Industries Hall, Room 
253-A.
Off The Cuff
There’s nothing like being six and 
one-half hours early for a class. Tau 
Delt Jerry Abelson believes in 
coming early to avoid the rush with 
considerable inducement from fun- 
loving brothers, who didn’t like the 
way his watch was keeping such ac­
curate time. If you think you hurry 
to make your first class, you should 
have seen Jerry madly dashing to 
school through what he thought was 
an unusually gooky early morning 
smog as of 2 A. M.
We liked Gertrude Lawrence in 
Lady in the Dark, but we couldn’t 
help popping a few vest buttons 
when former Tech dramat Marge 
Gibson did her beautiful best in 
same.
And speaking of famous fems for­
merly of Tech — Audrey Botkin 
spent a day on campus while her 
hubby and Best Foot Forward were 
wowing the town.
The freshman architecture class 
is on the wing. No less than seven 
potential Fred L. White’s are plan­
ning to discard T-sticks for joy 
sticks. In the air, on the land, on 
the sea! Tawit! Tawoo!
John Woollett’s “pretty pleases” 
when asking for a prominent posi­
tion in the full date book of Birch 
Belle Shirley Enslin have touching­
ly taken the form of white roses.
*llUitle Pix
Sunday, November22
2:00Phi Mu Alpha.
2:15Sigma Alpha Iota.
2:30Scotch and Soda.
2:45Chapel Choir.
3:00Men’s Glee Club.
3:15Women’s Glee Club.
3:30Tau Sigma Delta.
3:45Women’s ChristianAssocia-
tion.
4:00Women’s AthleticAssocia-
tion.
4:15Women’s DormitoryCouncil.
4:30Women’s Guild.
STUDENTS!
--------------?----------------
Turn Your 
Playtime 
into 
Paytime
Work at Sears:
SHORT HOURS - - - GOOD PAY 
PLUS 10% DISCOUNT ON 
YOUR SEARS PURCHASES 
FOR YOUR PERSONAL USE
Why pay to pass your spare time when Sears will pay you for it? 
Come in today and inquire about the pleasant work that you can do 
after school and in the evenings. See Miss Zink, Personnel Manager, 
at the North Side Store, or Miss Constantine, Personnel Manager, at 
the East Liberty Store, any day from 10 A. M. to 5 P. M. to make ar 
rangements for convenient working hours.
SEARS ROEBUCK & CO.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942
one of the boys
Ed Schatz
If any one person knows what the 
score is around Carnegie Tech, that 
person is Ed Schatz. As Treas­
urer of Student Council, Ed con­
stantly has his finger on the Campus 
purse, and probably knows the 
whereabout of more money than the 
Treasury Department realizes we 
have.
Any time Ed has left from his du­
ties on Student Council is devoted 
to his other activities, for he is a 
charter member of the Dragon Cir­
cle of O. D. K., a member of Tau 
Beta Pi, Delta Skull, the Technical 
staff, Vice-President of Interhonor- 
ary Council, and President of his 
own fraternity, Phi Kappa. In fact, 
Ed’s only complaint against Tech is 
that he never has sufficient time for 
spend in Latrobe with ex-Techite 
Nancy Staer, who wears his pin.
It must be all of these activities, 
particularly the last one, that knock­
ed Ed off the Honor list here lately. 
The fact that his spectacular decline 
is shared by most other senior Elec­
tricals is just another evidence of 
his departmental spirit.
Besides playing a smooth game of 
golf, Ed is a football enthusiast and 
couM be seen at all the games this 
season shouting his all for Dear Old 
Tech. He loves to go to dances and 
enjoys music of all kinds, admitting 
that Harry James has a slight edge 
for him in the swing line. One of 
his more secret amusements is play­
ing with the two Phi Kappa turtles,
left over from Fall Carnival; he 
keeps them in his room.
A senior Electrical Engineer, Ed 
really has the good of his depart­
ment at heart; not only does he be­
long to the A. I. E. E., but he is Vice- 
President of the electrical honorary, 
Eta Kappa Nu. In addition, he 
hopes to enter the Tech graduate 
school after December 20, to teach 
subjects in electrical engineering.
Blood Donor Registration
All students who wish to be blood 
donors should register in Mr. Wangeman’s 
office, whether or not they have previous­
ly registered at the Wabash Building, no 
later than Thursday of this week, if they 
wish to be accomodated by the mobile 
unit when it comes here November 30 and 
December 1.
Tech Launches Drive 
For Record Library
The drive for a Carnegie Tech 
sponsored library of classical and 
semi-classical phonograph records 
for service men was successfully 
launched last week. At the time 
the Tartan went to press, $20.25 had 
been collected.
Each student and faculty member 
is again asked to contribute a nickle 
or more to the cause. The whole­
sale cost of an Armed Forces Master 
Records library is $75. If the boys 
in camp are to receive their Christ­
mas present of records from Car­
negie Tech in time for hiloday cele­
brations, all contributions must be 
in by next Tuesday, November 24. 
Patriotic red, white, and blue col­
lection boxes have been placed in 
the Registrar’s Office, Administra­
tion; in the Music Office, Room 153, 
Arts; and in Dean Keeble’s Office, 
main foyer, Arts.
Musical Review
Students of the Department of 
Music will present their first recital 
of the year in the Exhibition Room, 
Arts, this Sunday at 8:15 P. M. No 
tickets of admittance will be requir­
ed. The program is as follows:
1 ‘Dumky” Trio, Opus 90..........  .Dvorak
Second, Third, and Fourth Episodes 
Judith Feldman, Piano 
Gertrude Zweig, Violin 
Dorothy Hutching, ’Cello
2. Partita, No. 1, in B Flat................Bach
Prelude—Allemande—Courante— 
Sarabande—Menuet—Migue
Harmonies du Soir..........................Liszt
Lawrence Mellon
3. Occhiettiamati .......................Falconieri
Air from “Comus”.....................Dr. Arne
In der Nacht.....................Richard Trunk
Richard Barrett
4. Seville ...........................*............ Nieman
Aragon........................................Longas
Impromptu.....................................Faure
Rhapsody in C Major...............Dohnanyi
Armand Basile 
Matthew Frey will be the accompanist
Today at 12:30, in room 157, Arts, 
Mr. Charles A. H. Pearson will su­
pervise the following phonograph 
-recital:
Symphony on a French Mountain Air..
.................................................... d’Indy
Capriccio.....................................Stravinsky
On Thursday at 12:30, in Room 
157 Arts, Dr. Frederick Dorian will 
be in charge of this program:
French Music of Three Centuries
On The Campus . •.
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS 
in Tech P. O. Box 409 by Friday noon of 
the week before publication.
Is Yo Available?
Ye Hon. Women’s Guild of C. I. T. will 
hold their annual Tag Day tomorrow. We 
understand, from very confidential 
sources, that the Women Guilders will 
sell miniature American flags this year. 
As in the past, the entire proceeds of the 
sale will go to their scholarship fund. 
The only philanthropic organization on 
campus, the Woman’s Guild Tag Day 
really deserves our support.
Join the WAVES—C.I.T. Version!
From the depths of Tech’s swimming 
pool we have received the following infor­
mation. Miss Kanrich of the Phys. Ed. 
Department, will teach the only course to 
be given this year in Red Cross Water­
front Safety and Lifesaving. It will be 
given in our pool, on Thursday after­
noons from 3:30 to 4:30. The first class 
will meet this Thursday afternoon and 
will continue on Thursdays until March.
Freshmen Y. M. C. A. Members 
Attention !
Freshman YMCA Cabinet will meet to­
morrow evening at 7:30 over in Student 
Union. Hint to freshmen: Attendance at 
meetings makes you a member of the 
Freshman Cabinet. You then automatic­
ally become a candidate for the upper­
classmen cabinets.
Play Tickets Available
The Registrar’s Office informs us that 
tickets are now available for the three 
one-act plays from “Tonight at 8:30” 
which the chillun of the Drama De­
partment open tonite. The plays, which 
will run until November 24th, are “Hands 
Across the Sea,” “Still Life,” and “Fam­
ily Album.” Curtain time: 8:30 P. M. 
No tickets are necessary after 8:15 or for 
the Friday matinee.
Senior Interviews
Two companies will have representa­
tives on campus this week to interview 
Seniors interested in securing employ­
ment. Interviews with these companies 
may be scheduled in Room 155 Adminis­
tration. On Nov. 19, Thursday, Pan- 
American Airways, represented by Messrs. 
P. J. Nielson and E. J. Foley, will inter­
view Mechanicals, Aeronauticals, and1 
Electrical Engineers. The Radiation Lab­
oratory at M.I.T. is interested in physi­
cists with emphasis on Electronics and 
Electrical Engineers.
Tech Discussion Group
They’re back again! Jack Shore, of the 
Tech Discussion Group, informs us that 
the Group is still going strong with its 
12:30 Tuesday morning meetings. To­
day, at that time, in Room 229-C of In­
dustries, these “literate” studes will con­
tinue their discussions. If you really 
want to hear what’s going on “from the 
halls of Montazuma to the shores of 
Tripoli,” drop in to the meeting—they’re 
the lads to tell you!
Seniors -- Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
AT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem­
ber 27, 1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
• •
ALUMNI OFFICE THE UNION
III
TARTAN
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Recognize me? I’m one of 
your crowd. You see, I speak for 
Coca-Cola, known, too, as Coke.
I speak for both. They mean 
the same thing. The gang 
say I look just like Coke 
tastes. And you can’t get 
that delicious and refreshing 
taste this side of Coca-Cola. 
Nobody else can dupli­
cate it.”
i
48234853485353235348535348535353235353122353532353534823232323232353235353

---------------------------------------------------

ISALY'S
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Here’s a new and improved drawing ink. Notice how freely 
it flows. Absolutely will not 
cake in bottle or on your draw* 
ing pen or brush.
Students’ Day
(Continued, from page 1) 
strangely enough, the Nazis, who 
usually take most violent and brutal 
measures at the slightest provoca­
tion, merely stood by this time. 
What they had in store was to be 
something very special!
Two days later at three o’clock in 
the morning all dormitories and 
students’ establishments were sur­
rounded with Nazi machine-gun­
ners. A rocket gave the signal for 
the attack on the sleeping, unsus­
pecting students. With rifle butts 
and gun-fire the barbarians forced 
their way into the bedrooms and 
seized the students. Scores of them 
were killed; they were rolled down 
the stairways, and those who jump­
ed out of windows in order to es­
cape arrest, were shot outside. Both 
men and women students were thus 
mistreated; the sadistic torture in­
flicted on them can hardly be relat­
ed. They were stripped, drenched 
with ice-cold water, and made to 
lie on the ground in the cold No­
vember night. The next day, one 
out of every ten students, was 
chosen at random and shot; the rest 
were carted to concentration camps.
Today we commemorate the 
young men and women who laid 
down their lives in the struggle for 
freedom with an intensive drive to 
get blood donations, to sell war 
stamps, and to add to the scrap col­
lection. Tech students will observe 
a two minute silence period at 11:15 
to express their sympathy for those 
European students who were sub­
jected to Gestapo punishment on 
this day in 1939. A smoker will be 
held at eight o’clock in the Union 
tonight; Mr. Kosto Unkovic, the 
Yugoslavian consul, is the speaker.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942
Let's go to
MILK SHAKES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Covers thoroughly and easily. Tha India 
black and whit« ara completely opaqua. Off er- 
ad in 20 waterproof colors. Resists erasure. 
Makes splendid reproductions.
Try JUSTRITE Drawing Ink just once. 
You'll be delighted with the results. You'll 
say Justrite is "Just right”.
MANUFACTURED BY
LOUIS MELIND COMPANY
362 W. CHICAGO AVENUE 
DEPT. 0 CHICAGO, ILL*
You can help save 
29,000 hours a day
I HISTORY IS ON THE MARCH I
ARE YOU KEEPING UP?
A COMPLETE COURSE 
iii IN CURRENT EVENTS IS ON OUR BOOK SHELVES ||i
Required Reading:
THEY WERE EXPENDABLE—W. L. White
THE TRUTH ABOUT SOVIET RUSSIA—S. and B. Webb
SABOTAGE—Sayers and Kahn
THE GREAT OFFENSIVE—Max Werner
THE SEVENTH CROSS—Anna Seghers
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
CONTEMPORARY BOOKS
440 WOOD STREET ATlantic 1777
3mt»n»n»»ntnn»mnn»mmmr
DRAWING INK
ONE second saved in each of the 106 million telephone 
calls made every day would add up to well over 
29,000 hours—would help greatly to keep lines open for 
vital military and war production calls.
A single second is that important. So answer promptly, 
giving your location and name, and keep your conver­
sation brief. When making a call, be sure you have the 
right number—use the directory—call Information only 
when it’s really necessary. And please don’t use Long 
Distance to defense areas unless your call is urgent.
The Bell System has a big job to do. By saving seconds 
you may make room for a vital war-time call.
Consumer Education 
Course Opens Tonight 
In Margaret Morrison
Students and members of the fac­
ulty are invited to attend the sec­
ond session of the Consumer Educa­
tion Course sponsored by the educa­
tion committee of the Allegheny 
County Consumer’s Council, to be 
held tonight in Room 114, Margaret 
Morrison Building. This educa­
tion committee, headed by Miss 
Harriet Glendon, includes Profes­
sors Bayard and Trilling of the Tech 
faculty.
The aim of this class is to inform 
people about consumer problems in 
relation to the war. It is hoped 
that those taking the course will, in 
turn, assume leadership in their 
various organizations. and neigh­
borhoods for the formation of study 
groups on this subject. In this way 
there will be better understanding, 
and a better cooperation with the 
plans which the government is de­
signing to prevent inflation and to 
assist in winning the pleace.
Tonight’s meeting, led by Miss 
Glendon, will feature “Agricultural 
Production in Relations to the War” 
as the topic of discussion. Mr. 
Charles P. Shenote, Chairman of the 
Allegheny County Ward Board, and 
Mr. Miles Horst, editor of the “Penn­
sylvania Farmer” have been invited 
to speak.
MilUaAif Se&ieti
Colonel F. T. Bass, Professor of 
Military* Science and Tactics, an­
nounces that the annual War De­
partment inspection of the ROTC 
will be held on November 19th and 
20th. The Engineer Unit will be 
inspected by Lieut. Colonel Guy L. 
Mills, C. E., of Pennsylvania State 
College who will also make the ad­
ministrative inspection. Major W. 
E. Tidmore, Signal Corps, also of 
Pennsylvania State College, will in­
spect the Carnegie Signal Corps 
Unit.
The inspection in previous years 
has always been held in the spring. 
This year, however, it has been nec­
essary to advance the date in view 
of the fact that ROTC Seniors will 
graduate on December 20.
Colonel Bass has been detailed 
by the War Department to conduct 
the inspection of the Engineer 
ROTC Units at Penn State College 
on November 23rd and 24th.
Your college store notv has iti
Tech Civil Engineers 
Receive Great Honor
For the fifth time in a period of 
eight years, the student chapter of 
the American Society of Civil En­
gineers at Carnegie Tech has been 
recommended for special com­
mendation by the society’s commit­
tee on Student Chapters. In a let­
ter to Professor F. M. McCullough, 
head of the Tech department of 
civil engineering, the A. S. C. E. 
president, E. B. Black, said that “in- 
as much as a Chapter’s success can 
result only from ability, punctual­
ity, and diligence on the part of its 
officers and members, this year’s 
record speaks well for the character 
of the organization and of the mem­
bership.”
Each year, twelve out of the So­
ciety’s one hundred and twenty stu­
dent chapters are chosen for honor­
able mention. Since this means that 
only one out of every ten chapters is 
chosen, it is a great honor that Tech 
has received this distinction five 
times.

---------------------------------------------------

6ÎHÈ CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942
Dave Brinn, Tech’s basketball captain,
Obstacle Race Postponed
Because of the adverse weather 
conditions last week, it was impos­
sible for all the teams to run the 
obstacle course competition. How­
ever, the few teams that did run 
last Morfday had good average time. 
The McGill Hall team leads with 
the average time of three minutes 
and 15 seconds.
FOR THE 
INTERFRATERNITY 
FORMAL
ALPHA 
DRESS 
SUIT CO.
Complete Rental Service of 
Men’s Formal Clothes „ 
SPECIAL STUDfeNT RATES 
PHONE AT. 1331 
3007 Jenkins Arcade
Varsity Cagers Play 
J.V.atNightly Drill
“We will have a fighting team 
with lot’s of punch:” here, in the 
words of Coach Max Hannum, is a 
preview of the Tartan cagers.
After two weeks of preliminary 
practice, the varsity went into seri­
ous workouts yesterday at the gym. 
With a record number of tryouts, 
plus five men from last year’s 
squad; the squad is well balanced 
in all departments except height.
Holdovers from last year’s team 
include Captain Dave Brinn, Bob 
DeBortoli, Frank Showman, and 
Bill Cogswell. Sharpshooters on the 
freshman team of last year who 
have made the varsity are George 
Marck, A1 Nelesen, and George 
Meyer. Four good freshman Joe 
Kelly, Culbertson, Larry Luther 
and John Sherman round out the 
roster. Also to this list is added 
the name, Hugh Smith, versatile 
forward of two years ago, who is 
back in school and who will join 
the teams as soon as his injured 
knee permits.
The starting assignments will 
probably go to Brinn, DeBortoli, 
Marck, Showman and H. Smith. 
This team is speedy, fighting and 
are dead shots.
In addition will be a Junior Var­
sity coached by “Buzzy” Green­
berg, former Carnegie star. The J. 
V., composed of men from last 
year’s freshman squad and the pres­
ent gang of yearlings, will play pre­
liminaries to the varsity contests.
(r^Duty 
Calls...
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fit—mentally alert. If you are one of the 16 million Amer­
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides a regular stimulat­
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Sam’s health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and mentally alert is an important duty— 
not to be neglected. Bowl a few lines each week—at the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAckson 02661916 MURRAY AVENUE
Switch to 3/iankMEDICOFIIIERED SMOHNti
66 Baffle Filter ThrillsSmokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR,
AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS ------------------ t
New York—The scientific, 
absorbent filter has contributed 
mightily to the smoking 
pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched 
to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before 
reaching the mouth. Flakes and 
slugs are trapped; and the 
smoke is whirl-cooled as it wind* 
its way through the filter.
Bert Munhall Finishes 28tli Season 
As Trainer for Tech Athletic Dept.
By Don French 
The prospective dentist who be­
came a trainer—there is the career 
of Bert Munhall, the renowned gen­
tlemen who is so indispensable to 
our football team. Back in 1908, 
Bert, as all the boys call him, at­
tended what is now known as Pitt; 
it was then called the Western Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania. Dentistry 
occupied Bert’s time for a full year
before he decided to make training 
his life’s occupation.
Before coming to Tech as trainer 
for the athletic department an inter­
esting incident occured in Bert’s life 
which should be mentioned. While 
in college he played football against 
Dr. Marks who was then attending 
Westminster. For the benefit of 
those who have not heard of Dr. 
Marks, he was the doctor and the 
director of the Physical Welfare De­
partment at Carnegie for many 
years before his death in 1940.
Football was a different game in 
the days when Bert played it, and 
he played it for 18 years. At West­
ern University Bert played “any­
thing between the ends” but con­
fessed his usual post was at center. 
At that time the game consisted 
largely of brute strength and 
weight; speed and deception were
THE
PLACE TO EAT
-------in-------
OAKLAND
-IS-
BILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
practically unknown. The uniforms 
provided no protection other than 
thigh pads. Occasionally, while Bert 
was playing, a man would be injur­
ed and it was here that Tech’s train­
er got his start.
An interesting sidelight on Bert’s 
training was that he prescribed pep­
permint lozenges for the runners to 
take during the marathon. This 
supplied dextrose and consequent 
energy the runners needed. It has 
been only recently that the .use of 
dextrose has gained recognition as 
an essential for long distance run­
ning.
Oddly enough, Bert started his 
long career at Tech on his birthday, 
February 17, 1914. The topic of his 
birthday brought up the question of 
his age, but this is a balking point 
with Bert. He doesn’t care to tell 
how old he is, so if you want to 
take upon yourself a real task, try 
and find out when he was born. At 
the time Bert came to Tech, Walter 
Steffens, a quarterback at the Uni­
versity of Chicago was just replac­
ing Dr. Marks as head coach. Be­
sides Steffens, Bert has served un­
der Waddel, Harpster, Kern, and 
now, of course, under Dr. Baker.
All that Bert has learned in re­
gard to his profession has been pick­
ed up on his own. Not only did 
Bert do an excellent job in train­
ing his athletes but went on to at­
tain recognition through his original 
ideas. Quite some time ago he cut 
an aluminum brace for a player 
with a fractured lower arm. This 
was the first time an aluminum 
brace was used. Since that time 
Bert has used his various casts for 
many Tech players. Another Mun­
hall innovation was the ankle wrap. 
Previous to this method of taping 
ankles elastic wraps were used. All 
members of the football team and 
others who have been in the field 
house have seen the massaging ta­
bles Bert uses. These are also his 
own idea. On top of all this, he con­
cocts his own liniments which he 
uses on the men.
STUDENTS!
Suits—Dresses 
Cleaned and Pressed..69c
Slacks—Sweaters 35c 
Cleaned and Pressed.. w w
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street
We Call and Deliver
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street

---------------------------------------------------

r WHEN 1
THE SKIPPER SAYS 
*THE smoke lamp's 4
LIT/ THERE'S 
NOTHING LIKE A CAMEL 
MILDNESS 
> APLENTY, AND 
THEY SUIT MY I
» TASTE TO A J
Zoots Winners Against Beta Sigs, 
Lose Championship Game to PiKAs
Two weeks ago last Monday the 
Beta Sigs went down to defeat in 
an overwhelming rush of a super, 
first class, independent football 
team by the score of 36-12. The Zoot 
Suits are a veritable powerhouse. 
This team was, until now, unknown 
as to their might by the other two 
leagues and the defeat of the Beta 
Sigs was considered an outstanding 
upset. The Beta Sigs were helpless 
against the passing attack launch­
ed by this wonder squad. Bob Cul­
bertson led the Zoots to victory with 
short bullet passes, and occasional 
long ones that seldom missed. His 
time for passing was unlimited due 
to the superb blocking of his back- 
field.
Last week’s game tells another 
and quite a different story. The 
PiKA’s came through with flying 
colors to beat the Zoot Suits by a 
score of 20-5 to clinch the Inter­
mural football cup.
This year’s intramural football 
games developed a brand of decep­
tive plays re-enforced with short 
fast bullet passes which were very 
different from previous years. The
PiKA’s and Zoots exemplified this 
in their game. A quick huddle, 
snappy return to the line and a fast 
moving squad, with a deadly pass­
er are good descriptions of both 
teams. The cause of the Zoots de­
feat is obvious; this bunch of fine 
ball players had no passing defense. 
Time and time again the passes of 
Hofmann found the waiting arms of 
his teammates. The PiKA’s out­
played the Zoots, but it can be said 
that both teams were equally ag­
gressive, with each rolling up five 
first down. The Zoots did not make 
one touchdown while the “Pikers” 
made three, two in the second pe­
riod and one in the last on a long 
downfield march terminated by a 
fast pass, Hofmann to Armour, for 
the score.
Again this year, as last, an all-star 
fraternity and independent football 
team has been selected by the intra­
mural manager’s club. Last year, 
admission was charged to this game 
at ten cents per and the proceeds 
were given to the “I Want a Team” 
drive. As a suggestion, some think 
it feasible to repeat this year with
rnoio oy ism JtiuisianaerAbove is a portrayal of the fine football that was played in the Pi K. 
A.-Zoot Suit game for the intramural football championship of the school. 
The Zoots are kicking out from behind good blocking.
proceeds going toward the war bond way. Here are the men chosen for 
drive. Let’s hope it happens that the two teams:
Fraternity Team Independent Team
Name Organization Position Name Organization
DeBortoli, Phi Kappa. . •............................end...................................................Bundy, McGill
Carlucci, Theta Xi.........................................end......................................T. Culbertson, Zoots
Durbin, Delta Tau Delta............................center..........................................Anderson, Scobell
Curry, Beta Theta Pi..................................back................................. .Holden, Scobell
Hennessy, Phi Kappa....................................back........................................MacDonald, Citcom
Hofmann, Pi Kappa Alpha..........................back.....................................R. Culbertson, Zoots
? IN THE COAST GUARD ?
they say:
ASH CAN for depth charge 
“CROW" for the eagle on petty officer’s insignia 
MAC' for anyone who’s name isn’t known 
"CAMEL" for their favorite cigarette
FIRST IN THE SERVICE
With men in the Coast Guard, Navy, Army, and Marines, the 
favorite cigarette is Camel. (Based on actual sales records in 
Canteens and Post Exchanges.)
The"T-Zone
where cigarettes 
are judged
The "T-ZONETaste and Throat —is the proving 
ground for cigarettes. Only your taste and throat can 
decide which cigarette tastes best to you ... and how it 
affects your throat. For your taste and throat are abso­
lutely individual to you. Based on the experience of 
millions of smokers, we believe Camels will suit your "T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!
CAMEL
COSTLIER TOBACCOS
R. 3. ReynoldsTobacco Company. Winston-Salem, North Carolina
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942 THE CARNEGIE TAKTA«

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTÁN
(
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1942OTlve Cartiere Tßlaid
All College Host As 
Clies Walter’s Band 
Played First Night
Ches Walter’s smooth rythm 
caught hold and met with the ap­
proval of the large crowd of dancers 
at the All College Dance last Satur­
day in Thistle Hall.
His first appearance on the cam­
pus met with great success and his 
unusual style brought rounds of ap-. 
plause. His trumpet and saxophones 
can definitely “send you.”
Amid cornstalks and streamers, 
lights and music, everyone seemed 
to be all out for fun. The crystal 
ball, as ever, gave the room a more 
friendly glow.
Many new students attended, and 
a great many men in uniform, most 
of whom are former students, con­
tinue to lend their support which 
gives the future a very hopeful out­
look.
Dr. and Mrs. Beryl Warden and 
Mr. and Mrs. Kent Sheaffer acted 
as chaperons. Our thanks to them 
for continuing to be “ever-faithful.”
A1 Flanders, Social Chairman of 
Council, and his committee are to 
be praised for their very energetic 
and masterful handling of this first 
affair of the season.
As usual, the Black Cat Room 
seemed to draw most of the crowd, 
acting as a magnet to get all the old 
gang together.
The cliques, this season, seem to 
be less numerous although the cir­
cles seem to be larger. It is hope­
ful, in the future, that some means 
can be arranged to draw out the shy 
guests and manage to help all the 
new students to get acquainted. This 
can be easily arranged, as our 
crowds are always congenial.
*7o *7 fie. Cditai
To the Editor:
A few weeks ago there appeared 
in your paper an article about a 
plan known as “Share-a-Ride.” 
However, it seems that nothing def­
inite or concrete has developed out 
of it. I am just one of hundreds in 
school that is interested in such a 
plan. What, with gas rationing 
about to begin on December first, 
are we going to do? Ride buses and 
street cars, which will double or 
triple the amount of time necessary 
to travel to and from school? No, I 
believe a plan can be worked out 
whereby all of us can combine and 
share rides. Certainly, if you go to 
your rationing board and tell them 
you are riding three, four, or five 
Dthers with you to school, they will 
see that you are supplied with gas. 
Then again several “A” cards will 
go a lot farther than one.
Now, there has to be a central 
governing body to carry out this 
plan and since your paper is 
responsible for the original idea, I 
feel that you should appoint a com­
mittee that will carry the plan 
through. And by so doing, we will 
all be assured of completing the 
present year with a minimum of in­
conveniences. I thank you in ad­
vance for your sincere and patriotic 
effort.E. K.
Bob Aungst Named 
Council Vice-Pres.
Have you ever met Bob Aungst? 
Well, consider this a personal intro­
duction to him. You’ll see plenty 
of him in the future because not 
only is he vice-president of the Col­
lege of Engineering, but he has been 
elected vice-president of Evening 
Student Council.
It all started back in 1940 when 
Bob graduated from Wilkinsburg 
High School. No chance came to go 
to day school, but determined to
continue his education by hook or 
crook, he took the long, crooked 
path through night school. The 
1940-41 term went by; then the 41- 
42. Still he kept coming through 
and now he is beginning his third 
year in the College of Engineering.
But, education wasn’t the only 
thing that happened to Bob. Dur­
ing those two short years, he be­
came employed by the Gulf Re­
search Division of the Gulf Refining 
Company. He also became active in 
extra-curricular activities by earn­
ing one, then two Insignia Awards, 
of which he is very proud. With 
these, came a pledge to Nu Sigma, 
honorary activities fraternity of the 
evening school, and Bob was really 
“in the swim.” All of this activity is 
climaxed by the part he will play 
on Student Council this year.
Bob has been non-committal 
about his personal likes and dis­
likes but we know that he likes to 
ice skate, dance and play chess. It 
has also been whispered about that 
he, in his shy, quiet way, is at heart 
a music lover and his collection of 
Benny Goodman records is the envy 
of many of his friends.
Good luck to you, Bob. Your job 
is an important one but we know 
you’ll do it well.
Hear Ye! Hear Ye!
Now at last the time has come 
To blow the trumpets and beat the 
drums,
To have pages in triumphant stance 
Announce our Thanksgiving Dance.
Let it be known! Hear ye! Hear ye! 
At Thistle Hall this dance shall be, 
This is the date, so please remember 
Saturday, the twenty-eighth of No­
vember.
Listen then to this proclamation 
Telling of our orchestration;
Music that is light and gay,
A real hot band its tunes will play.
Come one! Come all! Be debonaire, 
Join in the fun we want to share 
Come one! Come all! And bring some 
more,
This is the dance we’ve been waiting 
for.
Get Your Theatre Tickets
“Tonight at 8:30” was a very suc­
cessful Noel Coward production on 
Broadway, several years ago. At 
that time, and more recently when 
it appeared at the Nixon, you prob­
ably were wishing you could get to 
see it. Now you have a chance to 
catch up on it right here on campus. 
Noel Coward, in this production, in­
troduced one-act plays to theatre 
goers in a very unique way.
The Drama Department will pre­
sent three of these short plays in 
their usual gifted manner. This is 
one time you should make it a point 
not to miss this play which will be 
in the Little Theatre of the Fine 
Arts Building from November 17 to 
November 24. Tickets may be ob­
tained upon request and presenta­
tion of your registration card. Re­
member that Evening School stu­
dents miv obtain two tickets, so 
why not plan on coming and bring­
ing a friend. You are guaranteed an 
enjoyable evening by the Drama- 
Students.
Plaid Staff To Bowl
Climbing out from under their 
shrouds, the “Nocturnal Master­
minds” of campus publication, the 
Plaid Staff, will venture forth to try 
its luck at bowling, Friday evening, 
November 13th. All staff members 
are requested to be present at thhe 
Plaid Office earlier than usual that 
evening.
Hurray! A Breathing Spell
Our one and only recess of the se­
mester is creeping up on us. To most 
of us it will be good news to hear 
that the recess has been extended 
to include Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday instead of Thursday only, 
as listed in the Handbook.
FORMAL
CLOTHES
FOR ALL 
OCCASIONS
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
402-404 Pittsburgh 
Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
ATlantic 2346
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening pcnool Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts 
Marion Frost
June Apel 
Philip Boyle 
John Castellano 
James Flaherty 
Albert Flanders 
Mary Hensler 
Albert Kerstukos
Staff
Mary Jo Weber
Robert Lenigan 
Edward A. Macha 
S. W. Marcinizyn 
D. Pettigrew, Jr. 
Pearl Pettola 
Robert Poznanski 
Joseph M. Rymar
A
No, this column isn’t written by 
morons, although we have heard it 
said—yes, and no moron joke this 
week either — too bad? ... Ed 
Hughes has engineered a good one 
this time. He and his favorite “her” 
have scheduled the Ice Capades for 
the 14th. The engineers will sure 
miss a chance to wolf “her.” Shucks, 
it ain’t human . . . The vacancy in 
English on Tuesdays is all Harriet 
Klingensmith’s fault. She shouldn’t 
be so popular. “Absence makes the 
heart grow fonder,” but not of an 
empty chair . . . Praise the lord— 
theme song of the Maggie Murphs— 
why?—the band no longer practices 
’neath their windows . . . Say,, did 
you get a load of the nifty that was 
with Dick Brieck at the dance—the 
good old grape vine system informs 
us that she’s a Mt. Mercy gal — 
Wow! . . . Dale High field, former 
glamour boy of Industries, who 
hails from Chester, West Va., man­
aged to get recaps for his tires so 
he could come up to the dance . . . 
Jim Werner certainly doesn’t be­
lieve in hoarding—did you see him 
at the dance on Saturday? Does 
anybody know what’s happened to 
A1 Kerstukos. He hasn’t been out 
for the last several Friday nights, 
and the place has been rather quiet 
. . . c’mon back A1—you ain’t mad 
are you?
Steve Marcinizyn is hooked for 
good—wonder how it feels to be a 
married man—it’s a good thing he 
took the leap last week or he might 
have changed his mind—reason, his 
pal Joe Rymar couldn’t go bowling 
’cause his wife says he’s staying out 
too late on Friday nights.
GET READY FOR
Intramural Bowling,COMVIT,0
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes
