CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53—NUMBER 10 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1959
Patty Plate
Home Economics
Jackie Thurston
Painting and DesignSue Trustman
Drama
Pershing Rifles To 
Hold Annual Dance
This Saturday, the Pershing Rifles Honorary Sponsor for 
the school year, 1959-60, will be crowned at the Annual Persh­
ing Rifles’ Dance in Thistle Hall. This year’s contestants, 
shown above, for the honor are Patty Plate, Jackie Thurston, 
and Sue Trustman. ?------------------------------------------------------
Studeiit Congress 
Meeting Today
There will be ~ Student 
Congress meeting today at 
4:30 in Porter Hall 100. This 
will be the last meeting be­
fore the Christmas vacation, 
hence all members should be 
present.
Each year the Honorary Com­
pany Commander is chosen from 
among thirteen of the most beau- 
tiffS" girls on campus. These 
thirteen are selected by the of­
ficers of Pershing Rifles and are 
interviewed. This year the three 
finalists were presented to the 
company before Thanksgiving 
vacation and were voted on.
The winning candidate will be 
announced Saturday evening by 
Marge Snodgrass, the retiring 
HcOrary Company Commander 
of 1958-59. She will then be 
crowned and presented her hon­
orary rank. The honor guard for 
the queen will be formed by the 
members of the Fall Pledge 
Class, who will be formally 
initiated into Pershing Rifle Sat­
urday evening, just prior to the 
dance.
£ Accompany Team
The Honorary Sponsor will be 
entitled to accompany the drill 
team to meets when they repre­
sent the Carnegie Tech company, 
Also, she is eligible for competi­
tion for the position of Honorary 
Battalion or Regimental Com­
mander. The honorary Regimental, 
Sponsor will command the Penn­
sylvania District Regiment which 
includes twelve companies. Last 
yea^ the present Honorary Cap­
tain, Marge Snodgrass, was se­
lected as an honorary member of 
the Pennsylvania Regimental 
Staff.
This year’s candidates for 
queen include a Margaret Mor­
rison and two Fine Arts students. 
Patty Plate is a sophomore Home 
Economics major from Wellsville, 
Ohio, Jackie Thurston is a Jun­
ior fainting and Design Major, 
froOAllison Park, Pa.; and Sue 
Trustman is a Junior in the School 
of Drama.
, Saturday night’s dance is semi- 
formal and is open to the entire 
school. Dancing will be from nine 
to twelve. The price of tickets for 
the dance is $1.00 per couple, and 
:hese may be purchased from any 
Pershing Rifles Member, or at the 
loor.
Tech Mortar Board Establishes 
New Literary Arts Magazine
“Patterns, like a cut stone, has many facets which re­
flect the thoughts, humor, personal triumphs, and failures 
common to all college people of our generation. And so we 
reach out to each other, searching for a ground on which to 
meet, hoping to find confirmation^ 
of our experiences in those of 
others. In this light and the light 
of art—we offer Patterns.” This 
is the preamble of the constitu­
tion from Carnegie Tech’s newest
History Instructor 
Mr. Mylonas Dies 
In Auto Accident
Alexander George Mylonas, in­
structor in history, met death sud­
denly on November 30, 1959,
when his Volkswagen struck an 
abutment on'Parkway East.
Mr. Mylonas began teaching 
three months ago in the depart­
ment of history. He was the son of 
Dr. 'George E. Mylonas, noted 
archaeologist and professor at 
Washington University, St. Louis, 
Mo. Dr. Mylonas, who assisted in 
arranging the Greek Room at the 
University of Pittsburgh some 
years ago, has conducted numer­
ous important excavations at 
Greek sites since 1930, most re­
cently at Mycenae.
Graduate Study
Mr. Mylonas was to have com­
pleted on December 4 the last 
formalities for his Ph.D. at Har­
vard University. He received his 
A.B. degree there in 1952. After 
his military service, he spent a 
year at the Sorbonne in Paris, 
two graduate years at Harvard, 
and then two years of research on 
a fellowship in Italy. For his 
doctoral dissertation, on a Floren­
tine historian and statesman of 
Machiavelli’s time named Guic­
ciardini, he uncovered much new 
material in family manuscripts.
Mr. Mylonas was born Agust 8, 
1930 in Athens, Greece, and is 
survived by his parents and three 
sisters.
literary arts magazine.
In answer to a exasperate need 
for a good literary arts magazine 
on campus, Mortar Board has es­
tablished “Pattei'ns.” It will con­
tain poetry, short stories, essays, 
one-act plays, reproductions of 
art work, and creative photogra­
phy to be published semi-annually. 
This material will be obtained 
from creative writing classes, art 
classes, staff members, and indi­
vidual contributors.
Recognized By Congress
The constitution of “Patterns” 
has been submitted and approved 
by Student Congress and is now 
recognized as an activity on cam­
pus. The magazine also has a 
faculty board which has agreed to 
act as advisors. They consist of 
Dr. B. Cottrel, Miss Gladys 
Schmitt, and Mr. Harold Worner 
of the painting and design depart­
ment.
With the help of the advisory 
board, Mortar Board will elect the 
first editorial staff. However, after 
the magazine has been established, 
the editorial staff will elect and 
choose its own members. Persons 
interested in working on the mag­
azine should submit a letter in­
cluding interests, qualifications, 
and experiences to the Mortar 
Board box in care of the Dean of 
Women or to Mickey Coburn, Box 
2C6, Morewood Gardens.
Positions Available
Positions open on the magazine 
are: Editor-in-Chief, Managing
Editor, Fiction Editor, Poetry 
Editor, Art Editor, Assistant Art 
Editor, Business Manager, and 
also staff members under each of 
these editors. These positions will 
be elected within the next few 
weeks, after applications have 
been received.
[continued on page 8]
Tartan Hoopsters Win 
First Three Games
By Mike Berman
The Tartans went well on their way in proving predic­
tions that this is the best shooting team Tech has had in 
years as they trounced Indiana State Teachers College 104-77.
The Plaids started with a quick first basket and didn’t 
let up until the final buzzer, pour-^ 
ing in well over 40 percent of 
their shots from the field. Tech 
set a rapid pace at the beginning
racking up 15 points in the first 
five minutes while holding ISTC 
to 7.
The Skibos broke the ice when 
center Andy Komer tapped to 
Stan Skalka who alertly passed to 
little Tom Huff cutting by for the 
layup. However, the Indians came 
back quickly to knot the score. 
From this point Tech ran fast 
break after fast break and was 
able to move Carnegie ahead by 
10 points (17-7) after only 7 min­
utes of play. The Tartans con­
tinued this trend leading by 10 
or 8 points until the closing of 
the first half when ISTC was able
the first team back in again Tech 
built the lead up to 10 points again 
in short order, thanks to the fine 
shooting of Komer who hit for 16 
points in the first half. The Tar­
tans lead at recess 53-42.
Rookies
The second half was marked by 
continual fine shooting but weak 
defense as Tech widened the gap 
against ISTC. Coach Cratsley dis­
covered he had two freshmen that 
he could pull off the bench at any 
time. They were 6'1" George Fra­
zier ard 6'3" Jim Gohacki who 
with some excellent shooting were 
able to build the Tartan lead up 
to 20 points with 7 minutes re­
maining to’ play. Their efforts 
plus the fine rebounding, shooting.
to cut the lead to 5 points due to j and passing of Mike Flynn sewed
poor Tech defense. However, with[continued on page 7]
H&SS Essay Contest Now 
Open To Ail Tech Students
The annual essay contest on governmental and com­
munity problems, which in past years has been for under­
graduates in E&S and IM and PM only, is this year opened 
to all undergraduates at Carnegie Tech.
Announcements carrying full* ¦ ----------------------------—
details are available this week on i priZe, $100.00; and third prize, 
bulletin boards around campus; $50 00.
h!.r J2S i",<fnatjon! Preliminary entries for this
* \ „ S^oy ^ i year s contest will be due on Feb-partment oft.ee, A. H. 132-A. I ru 15 1960 and finalists (
The decision to open the con­
test to students in M&rgaret Mor­
rison and Fine Arts is one of sev­
eral changes proposed last week 
by the Undergraduate Advisory 
Committee, with a view to mak­
ing the ¿contest a more effective 
expression on campus of the re­
lation between Carnegie educa­
tion and civic responsibility. By 
courtesy of the Alumni Office, ap­
proval of the change has been 
promptly secured from the don­
ors of the Alumni Fund for 
Greater Interest in Government, 
which supports the contest.
Prize Increase 
A further change in the contest 
is an increase in the size of the 
prizes. The prizes to be awarded 
at Spring Carnival next May will 
be: first prize $150.00; second
then be selected by the H&SS 
committee of judges. The regula­
tion limiting each preliminary en­
try to simply a 600 word state­
ment (plus any available support­
ing evidence) is intended to make 
ii. possible for students to think 
over a subject and enter the con­
test without having to make any 
large investments of time in act­
ual writing.
The half dozen or so students 
accepted as finalists can make this 
investment of time after February 
15 with confidence that they have 
a reasonable chance of achieving 
something. The regulation also 
means that the choice of finalists 
will be on the ba^is, not of facil­
ity of writing, but of the value of 
the subject and line of approach 
proposed in the statement.
«^CARNEGIETARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

Pa** 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday. Deeembtr 9, 1959
Coed Of DL Week
Alice Werboff
Freshman P&D
CJL
Y Caroling
Christmas caroling at Children’s j 
Hospital in Oakland will be or­
ganized by the YMCA and YWCA 1 
at Tech, for Sunday evening, De- 
cember 13. All planning to par­
ticipate are asked to be at the 1 
Carnegie Unior at 5:45 to warm 
up a bit first, and to walk in a ; 
group to the Hospital. Any wish­
ing to join at the hospital may en­
ter at the parking lot entrance and 
ask for the group at the lobby 
switchboard at 6:30 p.m.
Kiltie Band
A recording of the Kiltie Band 
Alumni Concert, 1959, is available 
at a cost of four dollars per disc. 
Selections include: Prelude (Act 
3) Procession of the Meistersing- 
ers—Richard Wagner, Symphony 
No. 4 in F Minor—Peter I. 
Tchaikovsky, Overture II Signor 
Bruschino—Gioacchini Rossini, 
Fight For the Glory of Carnegie. 
These records are 33 Mj rpm, 
12" discs, made by RCA, and are 
available in plain or mailing jack­
ets. Those interested, please con­
tact any of the Kiltie Band or call 
Gary Brandenberger, MU 2-8926.
Secretarial Club
The Secretarial Club will hold 
a meeting on Wednesday, Decem­
ber 9, 1959, at 3:30 in Mary Breed 
Hall. Virginia Wright Schatz will 
be the guest speaker.
Westminster Club
The Westminster Foundation is 
having a Christmas carol sing and 
party on Friday, December 11. 
Come and bring your dates. The 
regular dinner meeting on Tues­
day, December 15, will feature Mr. 
David Gidman, Tech professor. He 
will speak on: “Shintoism and 
Taoism—Religions of the Far 
East.”
Christmas Chapel
The annual Christmas candle­
light service sponsored by the 
YMCA and YWCA of Carnegie 
Tech and Pitt will be held at 
Heinz Chapel on Pitt Campus on 
Wednesday night, December 16, at 
11:00 p.m.
This has become a popular tra­
dition in the Christmas season, 
offering an hour of music and 
Christmas readings from Scripture 
and other sources. The Sigma 
Alpha Iota Choir will sing several 
numbers, Mrs. Juanita Waller will 
be soloist and Miss Greta Gilmar- 
tin will be at the organ. Those 
wishing to attend are urged to ar­
rive early since each year the at­
tendance has been a full one.
egiate 
C^ufturaf
C^afenilar
This week is quite a busy one, 
especially for this city of many 
frustrated artists and art lovers. 
Hewlitt Gallery in the College of 
Fine Arts has an exhibit of paint­
ings by Vaclav Vytlacil. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse has Willard G. 
Bond’s ceramic paintings all of 
this month which can be seen 
daily from 2 till 5. A great variety 
in forms is offered at Carnegie In­
stitute.
The 13th will be the last day 
for seeing the Architecture of 
Venezuela. Eliza Miller has a one 
man show running until January 
3. The J. C. Leff Collection of the 
arts of ancient and primitive civ­
ilization is also there along with 
some Twentieth Century Draw­
ings. Even Pitt has something to 
contribute. Recreations of Italian 
Renaissance Masterpieces by Nich­
olas Lochoff are hanging in Frick 
Gallery. In the Commons Room- 
are Aubosson Tapestries.
Crime And Punishment
The famous novel, Crime and 
Punishment, has been adopted by 
drama student Mel Shapiro and 
will be on the YM&WHA stage 
Saturday and Sunday nights at 
8:30 p.m. This group of Tech 
Drama and graduate students uses 
the name of Theatre Unlimited. 
Allen Fletcher is directing this 
very exciting venture.
Now for the music world. Isaac 
Stern is guest violinist with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at Syria 
Mosque. The time is 8:40 on Fri­
day night and 3:10 on Sunday aft­
ernoon. Also on Sunday at three 
is the 23rd annual “United We 
Sing.” There will be Christmas 
carols from the Heritage Groups 
of Pittsburgh on this program. In­
cidentally, Christmas Chapel will 
be held at 11:30 next Tuesday in 
the Fine Arts lobby. This service 
always puts us in the spirit of the 
holiday.
We have just one more an­
nouncement. The Phillips String 
Quartet will play in a recital of 
the works of Bartók on Sunday 
night at 8:30 in the GSIA auditor-
International Club
A “Wine and Cheese” party 
will be held at the “Instep” house 
on Margaret Morrison St. on Sat­
urday, December 12, starting at 
8:00 p.m.
Orphan's Party
On Saturday, December 12, from 
2:00 to 6:00 in the Donner Hall 
Lounge, Men’s and Women’s Dorm 
Councils will hold their annual 
Christmas Orphan’s Party for 
eighty children from the Toner 
Institute in Brookline. This is the 
third such event, and, if past years 
are any indication, it will again 
be greatly enjoyed by all con­
cerned.
The party will include the show­
ing of a cartoon feature film, an j 
appearance by the boys from 
Toner, group singing of carols, and ; 
the distribution of gifts by Mr. 
and Mrs. S. Claus (better known 
as Jan Notopoulos and Jack Klas- ! 
nic).___________________
Emerson Club
Before you go home for ttfe holi- | 
days, be sure to hear the last talk 
in the Emerson Club’s current se- j 
ries on building a philosophy of 
life. Dr. Willard Arnett, Professor j 
of Philosophy at Chatham, will . 
discuss “Reason or Blind Faith” j 
Sunday evening, December 13, at i 
6:00 in the First Unitarian Church. | 
Come at 5:00 for dinner (50 cents) 
in the Schweitzer Room of the 
church (Ellsworth and More- 
wood), and don’t forget the social 
hour which follows the more for­
mal part of the program.
Cameron Clioir 
Schedules Concert 
For January 14
Because of difficulties which 
have arisen in connection with the 
holding of the Fall Concert in the 
G.S.I.A. auditorium, the event has 
been rescheduled as a Winter Con­
cert on January 14 at 8:00 p.m. in 
the Fine Arts Exhibition Hall.
The program will include a wide 
variety of numbers, featuring a 
cantata, Lincoln Lyrics, based on 
a poem by Edwin Markham and 
set to music by George Frederick 
McKay. There will be no admis­
sion charge, but tickets will be re­
quired up until shortly before the 
program begins. These tickets will 
be distributed through the mem­
bers of the choir shortly after the 
Christmas Recess.
Spring Schedule
The concert schedule for the 
Spring semester is now complete, 
and includes an item looked for­
ward to by all choir members: a 
weekend trip to New York City. 
It is planned to leave the campus 
on Thursday evening, travelling 
to New York City by chartered 
bus, and returning on Sunday. 
While there, an appearance will be 
made before the New York Clan 
of Carnegie Alumni, on Friday 
evening, and the group hopes to 
take in a Broadway show on Sat­
urday evening. The semester will 
be completed with three high 
school appearances, in Hampton 
Township, Irwin, and Monessen, 
the annual Spring Concert on 
campus, and the Spring Carnival 
Call Day ceremony.
Thistle Yearbook ? 
Sales Schedule
Wednesday, December 9, Web Hall, 11:30-1:30 
Thursday, December 10, More wood Gardens, 11:30-1:30 
Tuesday, December 15, Morewood Gardens, 11:30-1:30 
Wednesday, December 16, Web Hall, 11:30-1:30 
Thursday, December 17, Morewood Gardens, 11:30-1:30 
Wednesday, December 9, Web Hall, 11:30-1:30
On Campuswith
JfocShulman
(Author of “I if as « Teen-age Divarf ’, “The Many 
Loves of Dobie GiUis”, etc.)
TV OR NOT TV
The academic world has made its first tentative steps into 
television—a few lectures, a few seminars, a few lab demonstra­
tions—but colleges have not yet begun to use television’s vast 
capacity to dramatize, to amuse, to stir the senses, to unshackle 
the imagination. Like, for example, the following:
ANNOUNCER: Howdy, folksies. Well, it’s time again for 
that lovable, laughable pair, Emmett Twonkey Magruder, 
Ph. D., and Felicia May Crimscott, M.A., in that rollicking, 
roistering fun show, American History 101 . .. And here they 
are—the team that took the “hiss” out of “history”—Emmett 
Twonkey Magruder and Felicia May Crimscott!
DR. MAGRUDER: Howdy, folksies. A funny thing hap­
pened to me on the way to my doctorate. A mendicant ap­
proached me and said, “Excuse me, sir, will you give me 25 
cents for a sandwich?” and I replied, “Perhaps I will, my good 
man. Let me see the sandwich.”
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Oh, how droll, Dr. Magruder! How 
delicious! You’re a regular Joe Penner!. . . But enough of 
badinage. Let us turn to our rollicking, roistering fun show, 
American History 101.
DR. MAGRUDER: Today we will dramatize the taut and 
tingling story of John Smith and Pocahontas. I will play 
Captain Smith and Miss Magruder will play Pocahontas.
ANNOUNCER: But first a message from our sponsor... 
Folksies, have you tried Alpine Cigarettes yet? Have you 
treated yourself to that fresh filtration, that subtle coolness, 
that extra-long, extra-efficient filter? Have you? Hmmm? 
... If not, wake your tobacconist and get some Alpines at once! 
... And now to our grim and gripping story. Picture, if you 
will, a still summer night. An Indian maid stands by a moonlit 
brook. Suddenly she hears a footstep behind her. She turns . ..
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Oh! John Smith! You-um startle-um 
me-um!'
DR. MAGRUDER: Howdy, Pocahontas. What are you 
doing by the brook?
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Just washing out a few scalps. But 
what-um you-um want-um?
DR. MAGRUDER: I came to see the Chief.
MISS CRIMSCOTT: You-um can’t-um. Chief is leaving for 
Chieago.
DR. MAGRUDER: On what track?
ANNOUNCER: And speaking of tracks, stay on the right 
track with Alpines—the track that leads straight to smoking 
pleasure, to fun, to frolic, to sweet content. . . And now back 
to those two gassers, Emmett Twonkey Magruder and Felicia 
May Crimscott.
DR. MAGRUDER: Well, folksies, that’s all for today. See 
you next week, same time, same channel.
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Stay tuned now for “William Cullen 
Bryant—Girl Intern.”
ANNOUNCER: And remember, folksies, there was a time 
when you needed to smoke two cigarettes Uf get what you get 
from one Alpine —one cigarette for light menthol, one for high 
filtration. Today you can get it all in a single Alpine, which means 
you no longer have to go around smoking two cigarettes at a 
time, causing your friends to snigger, and violating the fire laws.
H omeE cn &b»jlm*o
And *peaking of TV, remember to wmtrh Max Shulman’a 
“The Many Love* of Dobie Gilli*” on CBS every Tuesday 
night—presented by Marlboro Cigarette*, from the maker» 
of Philip Morris and Alpine,
a

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 9, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre 3
Housing Office Studies 
Low Numbers Eating
Following the recent demise of Skibo, several hundred 
male undergraduates have been forced to find new eating
places.
“ Foreseeing this some time ago, the Housing Office opened
the dining facilities of Morewood^---------------—--------------------------------
Gardens and Forbes Hall, and set 
up a sort of temporary, substitute 
Skibo in Web Hall.
Strangely enough, the sum of 
the meals taken in Morewood and 
Forbes, plus the estimate of those 
eating in Web Hall left about two 
hundred meals unaccounted for 
per day.
^ Complete Survey
To discover where, if anywhere 
at all, these meals were being 
taken, the Housing Office, with the 
aid of the undergraduate dormi­
tory counselors, conducted an es­
sentially complete survey of dor­
mitory residents. With four per­
cent of the six hundred sixty resi­
dents not reporting, the following 
figures and trends, as seen by the 
Head of Mens’ Housing, George 
T^Hier, are significant.
WRCT Schedules 
Music For the 
Early Morning
Got a clock radio? Like to lis­
ten to good music in those real 
early morning hours (i.e., till 
about 10)? If so, then WRCT is 
pfiud to present “The Wake Up 
Show” being broadcast every week 
day morning, with—
Mr. Willis Johnson on Mondays, 
Wednesdays, and Fridays from 
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
and—
Mr. George Murray on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays from 8:00 a.m. to 
10:00 a.m.
Basketball
For those of you who have too 
rr^£?h homework or are just plain 
lazy, WRCT is also proud to pre­
sent live broadcasts of all C.I.T. 
basketball games. Mr. Murray, 
official announcer for all home 
basketball games, hopes that you’ll 
all tune in to his broadcasts.
At other times, for just good, 
old-fashioned (without every min­
ute on the minute commercials) 
radio listening, be sure to tune in 
WRCT—The Voice of Carnegie 
TQh —600 on every Tech dial.
Fraternities account for thirty- 
two percent of the total meals 
taken. Morewood Gardens feeds 
just six percent. This figure, ac­
cording to Mr. Tipker, is less than 
expected. On the other hand, fully 
twenty percent of the meals are 
taken at Forbes Hall, a somewhat 
greater percentage than predicted. 
Web Hall claims five percent — 
all in breakfasts and lunches.
No Breakfast
Twenty-seven percent never ate 
breakfast at all; two percent never 
ate lunch. Since the closing of 
Skibo, these percentages have 
jumped to forty-four and four re­
spectively. The net percentage of 
meals not eaten stands at seven­
teen percent. Happily, everyone 
eats dinner.
The remaining sixteen percent 
of the total meals are taken at 
various places off campus (nine 
percent), Woodlawn (four per­
cent), in the dormitories (two per­
cent), and elsewhere.
Assembly Set 
For Christmas
The December 15 assembly will 
find most Techites gathered in the 
Fine Arts foyer for the annual 
Christmas assembly.
The program similar, to that of 
past years, will feature both vocal 
and instrumental Christmas car­
ols, and highlighted by a message 
from Dr. Warner.
Cameron Choir
The Cameron Choir will sing 
two Christmas numbers: “Gloria 
from “Christmas,” and “Welcome 
Yule.” The music department 
chorus will present “Coventry 
Carol’ and “Christmas Time.” Also 
included are brass and organ se 
lection.
The Nativity from St. Luke, read 
by Henry Boetecher, will be fol­
lowed by a prayer led by the Rev 
erend Hugh S. Clark. Interspersed 
throughout the program will be 
Christmas carols sung by the au­
dience.
Drama School 
Remains Busy For 
Future Production
In spite of the loss of their 
important rehearsal space, the 
studio theater which was attached 
to Skibo, the drama department 
has been extremely busy lately.
Through the use of the rehears­
al rooms in Fine Arts, some rooms 
in Margaret Morrison, and more 
in the architecture department, 
they have been able to make-do 
until the new drama building is 
erected.
The next Little Theater produc­
tion, which is in rehearsal at this 
time, opens Friday, January 8 and 
runs until Monday, January 18. 
The program consists of three one 
act plays, “Sweeney Agonistes,” 
by T. S. Eliot, “A Full Moon in 
March,” by W. B. Yeats, and an 
adaption of “Antigone,” by Jean 
Cocteau. These plays, directed by 
Theodore Hoffman, are supposed 
to be rather unusual.
The Rehearsal
The production that was just 
completed in the Little Theater 
closed Monday, December 7. If 
you missed seeing “The Rehears­
al” you missed one of the best 
producing jobs seen at Tech in a 
long time. The production was ex­
cellent, the scenery and costum­
ing sumptuous, the make-up real­
istic, and the acting extremely 
well done. Jack Brown, who play­
ed the part of Hero, did a part­
icularly fine job.
The play uses a favorite theme 
of Anouilth, that of marriage and 
love among the leisure class of 
France. Anouilth says that even 
the pursuit of pleasure is work, 
for life is ugly and hard to live. 
He illustrates his point through 
people who most think of as hav- 
[continued on page 6]
Dr. Frederick Rossini Wins 
Outstanding Chemist Award
Marlboro Stereo 
Contest Nears End
The annual Marlboro stereo 
contest is nearing its end again 
this year and it looks as if it will 
be another close race.
All students and organizations 
participating in the contest should 
turn in their cigarette wrappers by 
12:00 noon Friday, December 11 at 
the trunk room on Donner Hall 
A-level. The winner of the contest 
will be announced the next day. 
For any further information con­
cerning the contest contact Harry 
Desilets, MA 1-7936.
wherever you go... 
YOU LOOK 
BETTER IN AN 
ARROW SHIRT
For holiday festivities—or anytime 
you want to look your best—treat yourself 
to a lion's share of flattery—the kind you’ll I ~ 
find in an Arrow. In 100% cotton oxford |;^j 
that stays neat, Arrows are a pleasure to wear 
... And, a most acceptable gift for the man 
who prizes fine tailoring. In favorite
collar styles. $5.00.-ARROW-
Each Saturday m th* NCAA football "Gam# of 
the We*k"-NBC TV-«pontor«l by ARROW.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood Street—Oakland
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Head 
of the Department of Chemistry 
and Director of the Chemical and 
Petroleum Research Laboratory at 
Carnegie Tech, has been selected 
for the “Pittsburgh Award” by the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the Amer­
ican Chemical Society. The award 
is given annually to an outstand­
ing chemist in the Pittsburgh area.
Dr. Rossini is an internationally 
known chemist and holds a mem­
bership in the National Academy 
of Sciences. He received his B.S. 
and M.S. degrees from Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and his 
Ph.D. from the University of Cal­
ifornia. Immediately thereafter he 
joined the staff of the National 
Bureau of Standards and in 1934 
was named director of the Amer­
ican Petroleum Institute Research 
Project 6 on the composition of 
petroleum. From 1936 to 1950 he 
served as chief of the section on 
thermochemistry and hydrocar­
bons at the National Bureau of 
Standards. He joined the Carne­
gie Tech faculty in July, 1950.
Memberships
In addition to his membership 
in the National Academy of Sci­
ences, Dr. Rossini also holds mem­
berships in the American Chemi­
cal Society, the American Institute
of Chemists, and the American So­
ciety of Engineering Education.
In 1955 Dr. Rossini was named 
by the United States Department 
of States as Chairman of the offi­
cial six-man U.S. Delegation to 
the Eighteenth Conference of the 
International Union of Pure and 
Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) held 
at Zurich, Switzerland. He also 
served as a member of the official 
U.S. Delegation to the Nineteenth 
Confgerence of IUPAC held in 
Paris. France in 1957 and similarly 
to the twentieth held in Munich, 
Germany in 1959. In January, 
1958, Dr. Rossini was one of sev­
eral United States scientists in­
vited by the Government of India 
and the Indian Science Congress 
Association to attend the 1958 In­
dian Science Congress and to visit 
and lecture at several institutions 
in India.
Fourth Awardee
Dr. Rossini is the fourth Car­
negie Tech faculty member to 
win this award. The others were 
Dr. Webster Jones, former Dean 
of the College of Engineering and 
Science (1941), Dr. John C. War­
ner, President of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, (1945), and 
Dr. Robert Mehl, former Director 
of the Metals Research Laboratory 
at Carnegie (1956).
JUST A REMINDER ... .
Goldenfeld's Market
IS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OF 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Meats
At 414 S. Craig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELD, Prop.
GO GREYHOUND
(for out-of-this-wor/d savings!)
No, there’s no Greyhound 
Scenicruiser® Service to 
outer space—yet. But if 
you’re rocketing home for 
the holidays, there’s no 
better way to go! It costs 
less than driving your own 
jalopy, too. With this exclu­
sive Greyhound Service, 
you get more—pay less. 
Get in orbit...go Greyhound.
COMPARE THESE LOW, 
LOW FARES:
Buffalo, N. Y...............$7.80*
Cleveland, Ohio .... 4.60
Harrisburg. Pa................6.65
Philadelphia, Pa. ... 9.65 
«plus tax
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a
Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package 
Express. They arrive in hours and cost you lessl
H’a such « comfort to taka the but... and leava tha driving to ua I
Ticket Agent at 
Grant at Liberty 
Downtown, Pgh.
EX. 1-2300

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, December 9, 1959
Editorial
Scotch ’n Soda — Too Much?
In recent weeks everyone has been studying, discussing, and doing something about 
Spring Carnival and other users of Student time. Nevertheless, it seems that everyone has 
overlooked one of the biggest consumers of student time, Scotch ’n Soda.
The Tartan feels that is is due time to look at this organization and ask the question, 
“Has Scotch ’n Soda become too big?” No one will argue that it is nice to have a student 
written, student run, student performed show to attend around Spring Carnival time and 
to spread the name of Carnegie Tech about the countryside. However, it is fair to ask if the 
benefits resulting from this show are worth the huge expenditure of student time and ef­
fort that are now involved. What is even worse is the fact that Scotch ’n Soda is not content 
with merely putting on a show in the Spring, it has taken over halftime at Homecoming, 
entered the Homecoming display business and also the parade world. One wouldn’t be sur­
prised if they are now actively planning their Carnival booth and sweepstakes buggy, two 
things which are no more out of line with its original purpose of existence than some of 
the other things that Scotch ’n Soda is now involved in.
Huge Sums
A look at Scotch ’n Sodas budget reveals that sums of money far into the thousands 
are involved. And although ^ts members will proudly point out the fact that Scotch ’n Soda 
made money last year, the fact remains that in many years in the past, it has gone deep in 
debt, leaving Student Congress to pay the bills.
The theater business is a risky one, the financial success of a production being 
almost unpredictable until opening night. By that time huge debts have already been in­
curred. Once more, the intrinsic lack of year to year continuity in any student organization 
makes it hard to be sure that Scotch ’n Soda will continue in the back in days to come. But 
the question of the monetary sums is minor compared to the student time involved.
No other organization on this campus (that is, of those without rituals, pledge train­
ing, initiations, etc.) can boast such a fervently devoted roster of members. Although it 
is good at first to have an interested and dedicated following in an organization, Scotch ’n 
Soda has abused this situation. The sheer amount of time which it alone demands of its 
members is astonishing. Crews, rehearsals and set building sessions take large amounts of 
time even months before the performance date. The time demanded from individuals when 
opening night begins to get only a few weeks away is far greater than any other organiza­
tion or sport on the campus demands. Members after spending five and six nights a week 
in the gym, cut class, fail to do homework, an i in many instances even cut hour exams. In 
causing this, is this organization helping to ful ill the aims of Carnegie? It is important to 
remember that this is not the unusual, it is the ordinary.
Scholastic Achievements
The scholastic achievements of most Scotch ’n Soda members during the second se­
mester clearly point out this tremendous drain of valuable time. As in past years, many of 
last year’s show are not even back in school this year, many others are back struggling to 
raise their low cumulatives.
Basically the idea of an organization such as Scotch ’n Soda is a good one. However, 
it should be realized that an attempt at a B roadway play should not be made on the Tech 
campus. Let’s keep things within reason and our real goals clearly in mind.
J.D.S.
IReaders Write
¡¡§!
I
Mud
Editor, the Tartan: •
“Neither rain nor snow nor 
gloom of night shall prevent the 
faithful mailman from the swift 
completion of his appointed task” 
may have been said about some 
sections of the country and its 
prevailing meteorological condi­
tions, but it’s a cinch the author 
wasn’t thinking about hill dorms 
across from Donner Hall when he 
conceived those memorable lines 
about a mailman. For certainly, 
no mailman living could ever tra­
verse that muddy stretch of no­
man’s land which has to be tra­
versed in order to get to Welch, 
Scobell, or Henderson Halls.
The school administration, 
which concerned itself with the 
fact that there were “250 missing 
eager eaters” at More wood, Web 
and Forbes Hall, seems relative­
ly unconcerned with the fact that 
six Tech students who had failed 
to carry their probing sticks with 
them “stepped out into the dark­
ness” (as Eliot would have said) 
in the victinity of Scobell Hall 
and were never seen again — all 
that remains of them is a shallow 
depression in the sea of mud and 
a hat which failed to sink but 
which no one has retrieved, pre­
sumably as a monument to these 
six who made such a noble sacri­
fice so that others might find a 
safer path.
As a dormitory counselor whose 
responsibility it is to be aware of 
[continued on page 5]
Individualism
Editor, the Tartan:
Shades of Rousseau, the campus has a new byword. Jump 
on the bandwagon, everyone, it is officially out—Individu­
ality! Recalling the calmness of the ’58-’59 season, upperclass-
classmen will note with nostalgia^------------------------------------------------------
that apathy was proclaimed (Woodlawn 10 cents, the squarethroughout the campus. Apathy 
gained subtle but lofty heights of 
immortality in its cartoon of a 
complacent couple loafing under 
a tree. The captain read, “LET’S 
CUT CLASS TOMORROW . . . 
again.” Yes sir, if you weren’t for 
apathy last year, man, you were 
way out.
This is straight from the cam­
pus leaders: to be “in” this year, 
be an individual. Send your poetry 
to your favorite publication, wear 
the official “individuality” button
Thanks
Editor, the Tartan:
We would like to express our 
gratitude to the students who wel­
comed us back from Slippery 
Rock last Friday morning. The 
warmth felt at this display of
spirit cannot be expressed in 
words. We will do our best to I an in{jjVxdual depends upon how
shaped ones), pound your fists and 
scream for it in vour clubs, or 
write to the Tartan regretting you 
have only one life to give for your 
inalienable right of fair repre­
sentation as an individual. Most 
important, don't organize;.that is 
a dirty word. Don't do anything. 
Be an individual. Oh, don’t get 
me wrong. I have nothing against 
individuals. I know quite a few 
myself.
Rebuttal
Seriously, my letter is a re­
buttal directed against a previous 
letter published in the Tartan. 
Its title was, “Is Homecoming An 
All School Event?” This letter 
concentrated so much on the in­
dividual as a thing in itself that 
two important relationships, es­
sential to our complex modern 
society, were completely over­
looked. First, you cannot consider 
the individual without relating 
him to his group. His. success as
show our appreciation by repre­
senting the student body as welh 
as the entire college in a manner 
worthy of such support.
Thank you again.
Jie relates to this group. This at­
tachment increased personal mo­
tivation and develops pride in the 
accomplishments of other mem­
bers of the group. At Tech, or
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by George B. Spehg
Bravo!!!
Yes, that’s three exclamation points: one for each insti-j 
tution (or person) that gave Carnegie Tech one of the most 
outstanding programs I have seen. Bouquets of orchids] 
could only be a small token in appreciation of immense pleas-
ure that Charles Chaplin, Film^—--------—----------------------------------
their hearts. In this m asterf£^ce, 
Charlie Chaplin is an escaped con 
vict in ministerial disguise who by 
accident becomes the pastor of a 
small church in the “wild west.' 
The musical accompaniment by! 
George Diehl was no less than! 
brilliant. He improvised the com 
plete score, and even composed al 
“Charlie Chaplin Theme,” which 
many were whistling and dim­
ming as they left the theatre., andj 
which I am whistling to this day.| 
Highpoint 
The highpoint of the evening was| 
a sequence where Chaplin deliv 
ers a magnificent pantomime ser-| 
mon on David and Goliath. Cin­
ema historians rate this as one oi 
the top three comic sequences in 
movie history, and George Diehl’s] 
handling of it was probably^ the 
best that has ever been $ine. 
After this choice two or three! 
minutes, the audience could no 
longer contain themselves—they 
broke out into spontaneous ap­
plause. At the end of the “Pil­
grim,” the audience again ap­
plauded vigorously. “The Pilgrim” 
was a 24 karat treasure.
Much of Chaplin may still be 
lost in attics, vaults, or archives; 
but somehow Film Arts managed 
to collect these rare choices t^'iive 
us a superior program. It will be 
hard to wait until February to see 
part two of the Chaplin trilogy. 
People who saw last week’s pro­
gram seemed in awe as they dis­
covered what Chaplin was truly 
like—no one could miss the fact 
that he glows with genius. I feel 
deeply sorry that his best films 
cannot be seen in this country 
(except behind the closed doors 
of Film Arts). Seeing the n ,ap- 
lin program just once, I just can’t 
imagine how anyone can be so 
good—but I guess anyone who can 
still breed children at seventy is 
bound to surprise.
Backstage 
It is a small miracle that “The 
Lovers” passed the censors with 
only one brief cut . . . “The Re­
hearsal” was too wordy for me, 
but Jack Brown and Pat Hamilton 
[continued on pa*.: 71RRRRe
Arts, and George Diehl gave us 
last Thursday. The show they 
presented, approximately billed as 
“The Films of Charles Chaplin— 
Part One,” was to my way of 
thinking, a milestone in motion 
picture entertainment—something 
that made flick history. For two 
hours, they revived the essence of 
a Charles Chaplin not seen in this 
country for forty years, with such 
full flavor and nostalgia, that one 
wished he could regress to the 
1920’s to ask for more.
The Film Arts showing opened 
with a brief introduction from the 
president, who explained that we 
would be seeing the first major 
segment in a trilogy of the films 
of Chaplin. He said that the films 
came from all parts of the coun­
try, they are very rare, and that 
the main feature came from 
France, because they are no exist­
ing prints in this country. We 
were told that if we watched care­
fully, we could see how Chaplin’s 
technique developed from Max 
Sennett slapstick to the warm lov­
able little tramp so few of us have 
seen. This change in the “king of 
comedy” seemed almost magical, 
as only a few years later his first 
film with Sennett, Chaplin emerges 
as a completely different character 
—a character, who through fine 
pantomime and rich poetry, sends 
us beautiful charges of deep emo­
tion.
historical Value
The shorts, four of them, seemed 
of more dated historical value 
than entertainment. They were 
highly significant in graphically 
illustrating just how the lovable 
“Charlie” developed from bur­
lesque. If anything were wrong 
would be the inferior tracks and 
trite titles of these shorts, which 
were added years after Chaplin 
made the films. When the shorts 
with the Film Arts program, it 
were over, (a little over an hour) 
there was a brief intermission— 
quite welcome to relax one from 
the effects Of the slapstick hurry 
scurry and the dizzying musical 
background.
It was the feature, “The Pil­
grim,” which everyone took to
adrsWit\?C\
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holiday^ (and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of iech-i 
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
The Basketball Team j away) the successful operation of
[continued on page 5]
Editor ................................................................................................. Jeremiah D. Sullivan
Associate Editor ........................................... ................... .................Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager ................................. .................................................... Lee Adlesberj
News Editor .................................................................................................. Jan Notopoulo*
Assistant News Editor..................................................................................... Phil James
Sports Editor .......................................................................................... Chock Vodvarka
Copy Editor ................................................................................v.. Mary Ann Melton
Layout Editor....................................................................................................Whalen
Assistant Business Manager — Mike Balsam, Advertising Man­
ager — Miles Holander, Secretary — Audrey Dolan,_ Circulation t an- 
ager — Bob Miller, Transportation — Bob Gregory.
News Staff—Sally Ganong, George Logan, Maxine Brown, ince 
Freund, Bob Nowak, Cindy Scott, Carla Blank, Andrea Nether, 
Janice Engeman, June Helmers, Bette Chapman, Fat Murray.
Typists—Patti Michael, Nancy Love, Nancy Joseph.
Circulation Staff—BilJ Russell, Pete Kost._______________
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
9

---------------------------------------------------

Weinend« r. Deoewber I, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—F»te 5
10 GREAT JAZZ NUMBERS
Martians' Lullaby March Of The Toys
Royal Garden Blues Just A Mood
Shine On Harvest Moon 
Erroll’s Bounce St. James Infirmary
Ciribiribin Tin Roof Blues
When The Saints Go Marching In
PLAYED BY YOUR FAVORITE 
ARTISTS
Benny Goodman Louis Armstrong 
Erroll Garner Shorty Rogers 
Jonah Jones Duke Ellington
Ben Webster Red Norvo
Bob Scobey Buck Clayton 
Vic Dickenson 
Rex Stewart 
Dukes of Dixieland
and 2 empty packages of VICEROY Cigarettes
BROWN t WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION Box 35SLouisville 1, Kentucky
Please »end me post paid ______ record (a) of the Special VICEROY
CAMPUS JAZZ FESTIVAL. Enclosed is $1.00 (no stamp«, 
please) and 2 empty Viceroy packages for each record ordered.
taIGAW
Afirlraoa
City---------------—__________________________________________Zone_____
Sit at*
This offer good only in U.S.A. Not valid in otatM where prohi or otherwise restricted—expires Dec. 31, 1959.
Indiviualism—
[continued from page 4] 
a group depends upon the organ­
ization within the group-organiza- 
tion involving work by individ­
uals.
From this individual-group re­
lationship arises the group to 
group relationship, each group 
¡giving to prove its worth. Out 
of this relationship comes com­
petition, an important factor on 
the college campus. The best com­
petition results between groups 
containing individuals who work 
well together, who are organized. 
If this competition cannot be cop­
ed with at Tech, what will hap­
pen “on the outside?” Avoid 
them if you will, these are the 
cold, cruel facts that govern us 
tQijay. Organizations are an in­
ternal part of our society. You 
cannot afford to be an “individ­
ual.” It is virtually impossible.
Free Ride
These facts were avoided in 
the letter in question. This avoid­
ance resulted in an envious tone 
for the advantages of certain cam­
pus organizations — fraternities. 
Believe me, we only get out of 
fraternities what we put into 
tjjjgm. Have people forgotten the 
vH>rk necessary? It seerris that 
many people on campus would 
like a good time literally handed 
to them by some organization— 
Student Congress. Just remember, 
you are only going to get out of 
it what you put into it.
It amazed me while reading this 
letter to see people completely 
forgetting any enjoyment felt 
during the three solid hours at 
Homecoming Dance. The grudge 
4an against the fraternity men’s 
“anticipating” success which they 
worked hard to achieve. What 
should we have, a display pro­
gram so geared to the individ­
ual that everyone can go to the 
dance and “anticipate?’.’ Maybe 
the entries could be one-man 
posters plastered all over the gym 
in an attempt to see how many, 
ways Tech students could write 
“Welcome Alumni” on 3x5 cards. 
7£you recall, the spirit of Home­
coming embodies the alumni, and 
fraternities feel this spirit more 
keenly than individual, psuedo- 
P&D’s putting up “Yoo hoo, Alum­
ni” signs.
Intramural
The “myth of the intramural” 
is another fallacy, implying fra­
ternity domination. It was stated 
in the letter that “only groups 
with adequate communications, 
i^Jfrcient funds, and organization 
can participate.” A little inves­
tigation reveals the intramural 
success of the independent Met 
Grads, Falcons, Newman Club, 
Rockets and other non-fraternity 
organizations. What about the 
enormous pool of centrally lo­
cated men in Donner Hall which 
has good communications, athletic 
equipment, and funds available 
through dorm council and the or­
ganization of dorm council? What 
iS-iacking? Success of this or any 
organization can result only when
v——-----------;---------------------
individuals are willing to work 
together for it. Apparently, some 
just do not want to do this.
Another fallacy, is the para­
graph concerning the “myth of 
the intramuuals” is the assump­
tion that a good intramural pro­
gram could be set up without 
good organization. As an alterna­
tive, to favor the individual, 
should we resort to a choose-up- 
sides, sand-lot brand of sports? 
And what of the individual sports 
such as wrestling, swimming, 
track, tennis, ping-pong, and pool? 
All the individual must do is sign 
up. Even here the group must 
be appreciated and valued. One’s 
personal victory is somehow more 
valuable w'hen it enhances one’s 
group. Yet any individual could 
participate if he would.
Pushed To Fullest
I chuckle at the though of push­
ing this individuality to its full­
est. Greek sing could be made in­
to an all school event. We could 
make it a three week variety 
show marathon so all 3,50t) stu­
dents could participate. There 
would be an initial extra week 
t-o sign them all up. At Spring 
Carnival let's have a huge bicy-, 
cle race to the Point. I can see 
it now, 3,500 seat-occupying stu­
dents out1 for their yearly exer­
cise whizzing past the big cathe­
dral of learning. And booths 
would have a $1.98 maximum in a, 
3 by 3 by 3 space.
Another puzzling reference was 
made in the letter as to parties, 
after all school dances, with an 
“all school atmosphere.” Now just 
what is that? I interpreted this 
“all school atmosphere” to be a 
desire to have a^party “just like 
the fraternities have,” only with­
out the responsibilities attached.
Congress
The letter continued: “It is Stu­
dent Congress’ responsibility to 
open all school events to every­
body.” Student Congress is spoken 
of like a machine independent of 
the student body, whose sole 
function is to work itself into the 
ground in order to produce a party 
with an “all school atmosphere.” 
Well, I’ll amend that suggestion 
to read, “It is Student Congress’ 
responsibility to open all-school 
events to everyone who is willing 
to do his share of the work!”
When I read that letter entitled 
“Is Homecoming An All School 
event?” I did not see an inde­
pendent opposing the fraternity 
man. I saw an individual wanting 
the advantages of organization 
without its responsibilities. I per­
sonally know the authors of the 
letter, they are hard workers and 
to be commended for speaking in 
favor of the individual man. I 
only suggest a distinction should 
have been made between the type 
of individuals on the Tech cam­
pus, between those willing to work 
and those not willing to work.
Organization
The key to success for the fra­
ternity system, Student Congress, 
dorm councils, or any campus 
group is organization. For the one 
thousandth time I repeat, an or­
ganization, in order to operate 
efficiently, requires co-ordinated 
hard work by its “individuals.” I 
am all for helping an individual 
willing to do his share but if he 
is not willing, what right has he 
to be grudge my organization?
Yes, we have a new byword 
on the Tech campus for 1959-’60 
season; but look closely, you will
find that it has the same con­
notation as last year’s byword.
Paul B. Farrell Jr. 
Architecture III
[continued from page 4] 
any abnormal situation in the 
dormitories, I have been informed 
by a number of residents that it 
is their intention to mail the 
school administration one package 
of mud per day until the situation 
has been alleviated. Others have 
told me that they are going to 
present the school administration 
with a bill for all the cleaning 
necessitated by these muddy con­
ditions (e.g. the longevity for one 
clean pair of pants for a man liv­
ing in the hill dorms is one mud- 
flat crossing). It w'ould presently 
appear that the sea of mud sur­
rounding the hill dorms can be 
matched in intensity only by the 
sea of oblivion surrounding the 
administration.
While I do not necessarily agree 
with these procedures, I am aware 
of quite a number of students who 
have expressed similar intentions. 
Personally, I am not adverse to 
being inconvenienced by the 
building (even if it does mean 
waking up to the gentle vibration 
of a 20-ton bulldozer) for certain­
ly I am proud of any new addi­
tions to our campus. However, I 
do not feel that sufficient and 
necessary measures have been 
taken to guard against our sink­
ing into the fathomless depths of 
the sea of mud.
Respectfully,
Lestef Brickman
Don Beaman 
S’nS Head
By Mickey Coburn
That this year’s production of 
Scotch ’n Soda will be a success 
is a fact that can be evidenced in 
the person of the club’s president, 
Don Beaman.
Don, the former president of Pi 
Kappa Alpha, has been an integral 
part of S ’n S for several years. 
An outstanding designer in the 
drama department, Don brought 
his original settings and imagina­
tive use of colour to grace the 
stage for “Harmony” and last 
year’s “Set ’Em Up Again,” for 
which he w*as awarded the coveted 
gold key. His designs delighted 
the audiences of “Caucasion Chalk 
Circle,r and will be seen again in 
the drama department’s produc­
tion of “Three Verse Plays.” His 
work us art editor of the Thistle 
won him membership into Pi Delta 
Epsilon.
Creative Ability
Don’s creative ability is equaled 
by his fine and perceptive intelli­
gence. His academic achievements 
have been recognized by Omicron 
Delta Kappa, (of which he is Vice- 
president); Delta Skull, and Sci­
mitars. His success at Tech is 
more than admirable since the 
twenty-six year old army veteran 
is putting himself through col­
lege with the aid of a Carnegie 
Scholarship.
It is believed that this year’s 
Scotch ’n Soda show will be hap­
pily remembered for a long time 
after closing night. With Don 
Beaman to lead the organization, 
such success is inevitable.
” WEBSTER'S 
NEW IWORLDI DICTIONARY
of the American language, College Edition 
Jhort entries (142,000) 
more examples of usage 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date 
Available at your college »lor#
THI WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY 
Cleveland and New York
12" LP VINYL 
RCA Custom 
Record
A LISTENING 
MAN'S RECORD 
(A listening Woman's 
Record, loo)—
brought to you 
exclusively 
by VICEROY—the 
Cigarette with A 
THINKING MAN’S 
FH.TER... A SMOKING 
MANS TASTE I
(Just Qe/eased forVICEROY
\ ? CIGARETTES!
The Greatest Jazz 
Album in Years!
Campus
ON A SPECIALLY PRESSED RCA CUSTOM RECORD
Featuring Top Favorite Jazz Instrumentalists 
—winners in a national popularity survey of American 
College and University Students! Yours at a special 
low price—with the compliments of VICEROY—the 
cigarette that gives you the best filtering of all for 
full rich taste. “A Thinking Man’s Filter . . .
A Smoking Man’s Taste.”
© 1050, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Cori»»
y£></rs /or Où//
«

---------------------------------------------------

TYPING SERVICE
Themes, Essays and Reports
Reasonable Rate 
Call EM. 1-3944
Pagre 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, December 9, 1959
Drama—
[continued from page 3] 
ing enough time, money, learning 
to be happy. The play uses the old 
device of a play within a play, 
as these courtiers are putting on 
a performance of a Louis the IV 
play to be used as entertainment 
for a ball. This device seems 
rather awkwTard. Perhaps Anou- 
ilth, liking the period costuming 
but wishing to avoid the period 
language, set his actors in the 
twentieth century. Whatever his 
reason, the play would have 
seemed less contrived if either ! 
one century or the other had been 
used.
One Act Plays
During the freshman year, all 
the acting takes place in the class­
room, but when the drama stu­
dents reach their sophomore 
year, they work in one act plays 
which are directed by junior di­
recting majors. Although they 
may use a bit of costuming to 
suggest a period, country, or per­
sonality, the actors may use al­
most no props and no scenery. 
Three one acts are produced every 
other week and theoretically ev­
ery sophomore is in some one 
act at all times.
The only limitation on the plays 
to be used is that they have six 
characters or less. This is so that 
all the directing majors have peo­
ple available for their plays. Some 
of the one acts that were put on 
this year were “Hyacinth,” “Har­
vey,” by Lady Gregory, “Fumed 
Oak,” by Saroyan, “Pound on De­
mand,” by O'Casey, and one act 
of “Lock Back in Anger,” by John 
Osbourne.
Another production going on at 
this time is being done by Thea­
ter, Unlimited. This organization 
is not a real part of the drama 
department, but the people acting 
in the plays are members of the 
department. The play being pro­
duced is “Crime and Punish­
ment,” and it is being put on at 
the Y.M.&W.H,A. beginning De­
cember 11.
Tartan Roving Reporter
The Tech Faculty
Tech’s official snoop, the Tartan 
roving reporter, has been on the 
prowl again. This week the illus­
trious eavesdropper heard some 
casual observations on the faculty 
of Carnegie Tech: *
Joe Yevich, soph omore chemis- 
istry major: “I’m pretty disillu­
sioned so far because I have been 
stuck with grad students who 
don’t know too much in several 
of my technical courses. I think 
that the professors know their 
stuff but the grad students are 
not too proficient.”
Linda Schack, freshman Mar­
gie Murph: “On the whole, I’m
very impressed by the faculty. I 
think they really contribute to 
making the subject matter inter­
esting and more understandable» 
The faculty-student relationship 
is not as close as I thought it 
would be.”
Judi Dippel, sophomore drama: 
“I think the faculty is more than 
adequate, in fact, outstanding; 
otherwise, I w’ould not be study­
ing here.”
A1 Kaminski, senior civil en­
gineer: “Some of it is all right 
and some of it isn’t. It’s danger­
ous to generalize.”
A couple of sophomore double 
E girls who prefer to remain rel­
atively anonymous: “Surprisingly 
enough, we have found that the 
members of the faculty with 
whom we have come in contact 
don’t discriminate against girl en­
gineers.”
Mary Ann Turnquist, junior 
psychology major: “I think the 
Engineering and Science school 
has seme of the tcp people. I 
don’t think they’re as interested 
in the students as they could be. 
As for Margaret Morrison, I can’t 
agree to the first opinion.”
Stu Solomon, fourth-year arch»
itect: “I pass.”
Sandy Dobkin, senior PAD;
“It’s very enlightening to have, 
as instructors, professionals in ^ p 
fields that they are teaching. For 
instance, someone who teaches de­
sign has had experience in many, 
fields of design.”
Jan Snider, sophomore music 
major: “I think in some depart­
ments the faculty is very good 
and in some departments it is not. 
The relationship between stu­
dents and the faculty is not. as 
close as it should be.” ^
Phi Tan Gammas 
Offering Freshman 
Tutoring Service
Phi Tau Gamma, sophomore 
women’s honorary, is again offer­
ing tutoring service for freshmen 
women.
Those interested should contact: 
Elain Baunhauber, 6A4 More- 
wood Gardens: MU 2-8897;
Vivenne Heinricher, 5735 Mc- 
Candless Avenue: ST 1-5585; 
Nancy Tull, 3A7 Morewood 
Gardens: MU 2-8876.
Just four years out of college...
He heads a team 
off 63 people
tteatty Enjoty
Y<witíolid<uf 
Ut Nett Ycofc.
Make it gay, festive and 
enlightening. The Sloane House 
YMCA helps you do it with special 
holiday programs.
Clean, comfortable and inexpensive 
accommodations—52.20-52.30 single, 
13.20-53.60 double. Convenient to 
everything. Ideal year-round residence 
«id program center for young men 
and groups of all sizes.
Write Residence Director for Folder
WM. SLOANE HOUSE YMCA
996 West 34th St., New Yert, OX 5-5133 
(One black fro« Penn Station)
L. Dean Darbe graduated from Kansas State U. in 1955 with a 
B. S. degree in electrical engineering. Today he is Supervising 
Service Foreman for Southwestern Bell Telephone Company at 
Hutchinson, Kansas. Dean has five Foremen and 58 craftsmen 
reporting to him. He’s got full responsibility—covering installa­
tion, maintenance, testing and repair—for 21,000 telephones and #))
all the equipment that serves them.
“It’s interesting work,” says Dean, "and it keeps me on the 
go. Here are a few of my activities during a recent day on the job.’*
“8:30 a.m. I meet with one of our Foremen at the plant garage 
to discuss a cable-pressurizing job. We’re putting all aerial 
cable in Hutchinson under air pressure to keep out moisture 
which causes cable failure and costly service interruptions.”
"That’s about it for one day. Tomorrow’s schedule will be 
different. I’m doing interesting, challenging work all the time— 
and I’m given plenty of responsibility. That’s what I like about 
my job.”
There are countless young men like Dean Darbe who are 
moving ahead in supervisory careers with the Bell Telephone 
Companies. You could be one of them. Talk it over with the 
Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the 
Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL
TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
“10:15 a.m. My boss, District Plant Superintendent Randy 
Barron, and I go over plans for an addition to our dial central 
office. Several pieces of large and complex switching equipment 
will have to be rearranged to tie in with the new facilities/*
**1:30 p.m. After lunch, I drive out to the new plant of a mobile 
home manufacturer. My men are completing installation of a 
new-type cordless switchboard. I discuss features of the new 
equipment with the firm’s Vice President and Plant Manager.”
“3:00 p.m. At our toll center we'll soon be adding another 
test desk to increase our facilities for ‘trouble shooting’ Long 
Distance circuits. Here, with our Chief Testboardman, I go 
over some of the board changes which will have to be made."
it

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 9, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre 7
cjCiterature and the ^s4rtô 
look man, we’re not so star far apart
By L. Battista
Look through a window.
Look through the looking windowed self.
Look . . . find?
Found a sky-crying rainy night.
And while looking became lost . . .
Lost in the windowed night.
More than lost—mixed.
Mixed with what was glassed before me. 
Confused as to which I was:
With one windowed rain drop 
I was I,
then outside night, 
then watt-white room, 
then starch stiff, nose lit, lamp post, 
then, cloud wee-wee, wet on window.
O’ that was the best—
For the time I got to play that window part,
I got to be them all at once, 
the whole reflected sight, 
rain, room, night and me.
What I’m trying to, scratch bn paper, say 
is that this warm when rained on 
“Alice in Windowland” 
“part-of-everything-at-once” feeling
Nothing else, you read it right—
^ Just plain everyday,
Once in a rain drop ... IS.
I’m fairly, slapped on ass not too long ago, young.
- So, only been IS but twice.
But before the covered with black, last time in 
church song’s sung,
I’ll maybe make it trice.
Now some will frown, while speaking gaze up, 
then down . . .
“This poem’s not too well sung,
ya see, s’not universal—merely to a few its
flung
Only the write-a-poem, 
play-a-note, paint-on-paper man 
is visited by IS.”
But this I don’t believe.
I’m sure the lunch-pail, pick-palm,
^ wife-life-in-bed man has also met Mr. IS.
You see, these men aren’t star-far apart.
I sure wish to hell they and all would see it . . • 
We’d all be better off.
Sunset
By CO. Donnell
The evening clouds are drifting 
Drifting—drifting 
f* Slowly—quietly to the East
Small cotton balls on the vast—pale—blue
Look up, friend
See how big the sky is
See how big—how vast—how pale
Look, friend—look up at—infinity
But look, friend
The clouds are growing brighter
Brighter—lighter—whiter
And lo, friend, now they turn to pink!
It is the sun, friend
The day is dying in the West
The dying sun is painting—
Painting beauty in the sky
Look up, friend 
Look up and see the beauty 
.j See beauty—see majesty—see truth 
Look up and see the sunset 
(It comes at 5:07 tonight on your hum-drum, 
wham-bam, clickety-clack schedule)
Look, back friend
The sun is looking back on his good work 
But, what have you done today, friend?
What have you done today?
Basketball—
[continued from page 1 ] I 
the game up for Tech in the clos­
ing minutes. Just when Tech’s 
poor defense seemed to be getting 
the better of them, Frazier pushed 
4 consecutive jump shots to re­
store Tech’s lead to 21 points. This 
was Tech’s spark for with 5 min­
utes still left, they increased their 
lead to 33 points 98-65. Gohacki 
put in the remaining Tech hoops 
for the 104-77 victory.
A look at the Tech scoring dis­
tribution shows the even balancc 
of Tech’s offense. Komer led the 
attack with 22 points, followed by 
Flynn—18 and Soffa—18, Frazier 
—14, Skalka—12, and Gohacki— 
10.
Tech ran up their string of vic­
tories to three as they edged out 
a 119-116 triumph over Slippery 
Rock in double overtime and one 
against Grove City.
The Slippery Rock match 
showed excellent shooting as the 
Tartans swished in 53 percent of 
their shots. Tech couldn’t have 
pulled it out without the fine play­
ing of Ted Williams who hit for 
12 points in the two overtimes 
while Skalka and Soffa were out 
with 5 personals apiece. Soffa was 
high man with 28 points and 
Skalka was behind him with 24.
The Tartans came back to earth 
in the Grove City contest as Grove 
City proved that Tech can be held
to less than 100. The 76-67 Terh 
win over the Wolverines was led 
by Skalka with 14 points.
Bravo—
[continued from page 4] 
Tickets are going fast—sellout 
predicted for Saturday and Sun­
day . . . Better guess again, Mickey 
Coburn, G.B.S. is not W.E.P. . . . 
Ingmar Bergman’s latest psycho­
logical mind twister, “The Magi­
cian,” is next at the Shadyside 
. . . Film Arts has secured th« 
rights to play the uncensored 
“Game of Love” as one of their 
first spring attractions . . . Speak­
ing of Jack, only a couple days 
now ’til “Crime and Punish­
ment.” He has the lead with 
support by Ana Edler, Ed Martz, 
Cecil Kitcat, and Charles Moore. 
Closing thought: “The Lovers;* 
there’s more to it than kissing.
ft. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. W'mSTON-SAIET S!T sT
All filter cigarettes are divided 
into two parts, and...
He knew that a pure white filter 
alone is not enough. To be a com­
plete filter cigarette, it must have 
Filter-Blend up front. And only 
Winston’s got it!
That’s why Caesar would never 
accept another brand even when it 
was offered gratis. In fact, history
tells us he’d glower at the extended 
pack and sneer, “Et tu, Brute t” 
In a stirring peroration to his 
legions, Caesar put it this way: 
“For the Numeral I filter ciga­
rette—for the best-tasting filter 
cigarette—for the noblest filter 
cigarette of all—smoke Winston!’*
“Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!”
np to bachelors. If you’re lucky enough to find a gal who’ll
• keep you in Winstons, Caesar!
“Weni, widi, Winston !” Thus did Caesar 
(a notoriously poor speller) hail the discovery 
of Filter-Blend —light, mild tobaccos specially 
selected and specially processed for filter smoking.
*

---------------------------------------------------

600D ;
OPENINGS
PROMISING 
NEW CAREERS
RECENT « 
GRADUATES
CARNEGIE 
TECH '59
Pagre S—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, December 9, ItSS
tLROTC
Guidon
Editor: Ed Werner
Patterns-
aryDept.
Presenting Series 
Of Combat Films
Are you a student of history, 
modern warfare, the fortunes and 
disasters of war? Are you maybe
PR To Hold 
Fall Initiation
This Saturday evening, seven­
teen new members will be initi­
ated into Pershing Rifles. These 
pledges have been undergoing
just interested in what was taking training throughout the semester 
place throughout the world dur- un(Jer the direction of Company 
ing your years of growing up? Commander Richard T. Cuppett,
During the early forties and 
fifties, the United States was in­
volved in two major conflicts to 
preserve democracy and combat 
aggression. These conflicts were, 
as is well known, World War II 
and the Korean Police action. 
Many of our friends and relatives 
fought and died that we might live 
in freedom.
Historical Series
In all due honor for those who 
participated and sacrificed in these 
conflicts, the Tech Military De­
partment is presenting a historical 
film series of the European and 
Pacific Theaters of World War II 
and a Documentary of the Korean 
War.
The Military Theater is every 
Monday afternoon at 4:30 in Por­
ter Hall 100. Each weekly presen­
tation lasts for approximately one 
hour. The series began November 
17, and w’ill continue weekly until 
next March.
Next Monday’s presentation is 
tho Italian Campaign. Plan to at­
tend.
[continued from page 1]
Plans for ‘‘Patterns” have been 
in the working since last spring in 
hopes that a magazine could be 
established that would exhibit the 
finest available creative work of 
the Carnegie Tech students. Un­
der present plans, it is hoped that 
the entire staff will be organized 
and working by the end of the 
first semester and that arrange­
ments for the necessary funds, ma­
terials, and plan formats will be 
complete.
It is urged that all students from 
Carnegie Tech. regardless of de-1 
partment or class year will take! 
an interest in submitting original j 
creative wrork in order to make j 
this magazine truly representative! 
of the fine quality work which 
students of Tech are capable.
Pershing Rifles Captain, and; 
Pledge Master, P R 1st. Ltn. Rich- j 
ard Waina.
Last weekend, the pledges com- j 
pleted their pledge training and . 
were informally initiated.
The new members include Guy ! 
Beaty, Phillip Beck. Tom Devine,' 
Victor Dobras, Philip Dowd, Wil- j 
liam Elsey, Charles Fischer, Don 
Foulk, Michael Leib, Allen Levy, ; 
Walter Makowicz, Fred Mergen- | 
dahl, Ron Piotrowski, Paul 
Schulte, Frank Wallace, Tom' 
Whiting, and Robert Zentner.
nIoevGgo!p TGaevl 
SvGeocv
Domestic or Foreign Points
Arrangements made for 
Individuals or Groups to •
Charters for Special 
Events also Available
MA. 1-3500 x 7205 6 
MA. 1-5915
In Bids:. E. Schenley Apts.
Have You Played
--."The
frame «ripve'
EARN YOUR MASTER’S DEGREE
AND PREPARE FOR AN
\X\snTCV\ sWi\\i Ct i\TWCLCt?
Comprehensive nine-month program for coll*-** grad»» 
ate»; emphasis on executive direction in major «lores 
dovetailed with classroom work. Total pay for «tor* 
work $700. Co-ed. Scholarships. Selective job place­
ment before graduation. G. I. approved. Next el*»«. 
August 29, 1960. Apply now. Writ« for Bulletin C.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH Pi«»b»««h is, P«.
Carnegie Institute 
Giving Teeliites 
Free Admission
Carnegie Institute has recently 
changed its policy by granting 
free admission to all exhibitions 
for Tech students.
Formerly, students were con­
sidered along with the general 
public in the requirement for the 
payment of admission. Even 
though the price formerly charged 
was nominal (usually 25c), the 
change is significant since it will 
enable Techites to attend a show­
ing more than one time without 
added cost. Many of the Insti­
tute’s showings like the present 
Jay C. Leff one are large and re­
quire repeated attention.
Tech students desiring free ad­
mission should be prepared to 
show their identification cards to 
the ticket taker upon entry.
Penna. Premiere 
Wed., Nov. 25th
When al conventions explode
ThßlpVERS 
? SHADYSIDE ?
THEATRE 
5518 Walnut St. MU 2 1901
PENN STATE '59
Civil Engineer Joe Oyler avoids going 
through a long, drawn-out apprenticeship. 
His new job makes full use of his training 
and ability, right from the start. He works 
in structural design for an electric com­
pany in Pennsylvania.
Andre Giroux gets 
advanced profes­
sional training at 
company expense. 
On the payroll of 
one of Pennsyl­
vania’s electric 
companies, Andre 
studies the elec­
tronic computer at 
a New York school. 
He’ll use the 
’’brain” in his work 
as a research and 
development 
engineer.
INDIANA U. '58
Marian "Mitzi” 
Smith broils mouth­
watering shish- 
kabob in her test 
kitchen. She’s a 
Home Service Rep­
resentative with an 
electric company in 
Pennsylvania. 
Mitzi is glad her 
company offers gen­
uine career oppor­
tunities for women.
Pin '59
Nelson Tonet, mechanical engineer, looks 
forward to a promising future. He’s with 
an electric company whose output is dou­
bling on the average of every ten years. 
Nelson knows that this planned expansion 
increases hie chance« of reaching the top.
When a man finds his way into the right opening for him, a promising 
new career is born. That’s why the electric companies of Pennsylvania 
take such pains to match the man to the job. For information, writ« 
to Pennsylvania Electric Association, State Street Building, 
Harrisburg, Pa.
1V
1
¡ß
j!
Il
Pennsylvania Electric Association¦
lüR21 INDEPENDENT COMPANIES PROVIDING POWER FOR PENNSYLVANIA’S PROGRESS&...... •- -’y*- ' -----2—------------—'• V
V. . &J-Ì.TTTTTTTT
i

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 9, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 9
<9
This page edited by Evening School Students of the
^ Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editors.Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
Evening Christmas Assembly 
To Feature Male Chorus
The Christmas Assembly program for evening students 
on December 16, will feature the Westinghouse Male Chorus, 
^comprising 32 voices, under the direction of Ted Yearsley. 
Rudolf K. Hanke is the accompanist for the chorus. The
Westinghouse Male Chorus is an 
activity of the East Pittsburgh Di­
visions of the Westinghouse Elec­
tric Corporation. It is an entirely 
voluntary service on the part of 
the members. Mr. Yearsley is an 
electronics technician at Westing­
house, as well as Director of Mu­
sic at the Wilkinsburg Christian 
Church, and has accumulated a 
wealth of vocal and instrumental 
experience through radio, church, 
quartet and solo work.
Phi Gamma Phi 
Accepts Three 
Into Membership
On Sunday, November 15, Phi 
Gamma Pi accepted into member­
ship Susan Schultz, Lou Ann 
Stoner, and Eleanor Iwinski at an 
initiation tea. Mrs. Robert Ram­
say, new Phi Gamma Pi Sponsor, 
welcomed the new members and 
suggested the goal this year should 
be to strive to maintain the inter­
est of present members and find 
new responsible members to con- 
^ tinue the ideals of the sorority.
New Members Welcome
Betty Jane Reitz, President of 
the sorority, also welcomed the 
new members and expressed the 
hope that they would derive en­
joyment from their association 
with Phi Gamma Pi.
Following initiation ceremonies 
Mary Lou Ramsay entertained by 
performing interpretitive dancing 
impressions of an apple ripening 
» on a window sill, the Cheshire cat, 
^ an unfolding umbrella, the first 
star coming out at night, and Old 
Faithful, the Yellowstone Geyser, 
“blowing its top.”
Mr. Hanke is a design engineer 
for Westinghouse as well as an 
able concert pianist. The Chorus 
has had many years of success in 
presenting its varied repertoire of 
hit tunes, show tunes, spirituals, 
religious, patriotic and novelty 
numbers, both from special ar- 
rangements and professional 
scores, to audiences throughout the 
Eastern United States and Canada.
Dean Glen U. Cleeton will ad­
dress the assembly, which will 
meet in Porter Hall (Room 100) 
from 8:00 to 8:50 p.m. Ronald 
Craig, President of Evening Stu­
dent Council, will lead the as­
sembly program.
<*
Before you choose amongSTUDENT TOURS OF EUROPE
you mustCOMPARE
them Bl C C ñ »twtont
against tours 
AMONG OUR MORE THAN 30 TOURS
SELECTION
• RUSSIA, POLAND A WESTfRN EUROPE
• ISRAEL A WESTERN EUROPE
• NORTH, CENTRAL A SOUTHERN EUROPE
• FESTIVALS OF ART A MUSIC
• “RED CARPET” LUXURY TOUR
• VOLKSWAGEN "DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF" TOUR
• DAUPHINE “DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF" TOUR
• OLYMPIC TOUR—RETURN VIA 707 JET
• EUROPE VIA THE SOUTH ATLANTIC'
• EUROPE A LATIN AMERICA STUDY TOURS
• EUROPE A "OBERAMMERGAU" PASSION PLAY
PRICES &
TOUR LENGTHS
From 54-82 days jam-packed with excitement! Only 
$799 to $1*93. Try to boat thosa cost-por-day fignreil
VALUE
U.S.N.S.A. STUDENT TOURS ARE ALL-INCLUSIVC. 
They Includa round-trip trans-Atlantic transportation, 
land transportation, accommodations, moo Is, sight­
seeing, excursions, opera, theatre, concerts, socials 
with European students, other entertainment.
TEACHER TOURS
U.S.N.S.A. not* effers Teen Teur and Teacher 
Tour pretrams. Send fer details.
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL, INC.*
20 West 38th »troot • Now York 18, N. Y. 
OXford 5-5070
•A no« profit corporation nrring U. S. ttudtntt from cooif fo-com*.
U. *. N. S. A. — 20 Wait 38th Street, N«w York 18, N. Y.
Genllemem
Pleote tend full descriptive informolion ond Itinerari«» of Ü.S.N.S.A. towrs.
The Great Scot
Calendar Issue 
On Sale Next Week
APPLIED MAGNETISM 405-406 
Reactions of water, hair, women 
Professor D. Juan
10:00-11:00 p.m. Saturday 
Examination of why men usually use water 
with their hair tonic. Demonstration that wa­
ter causes dried-out hair resembling explosion 
in a silo. Practical applications of 'Vaseline’ 
Hair Tonic; proof that 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic 
replaces oil that water removes from hair. 
Definitive interrelationships of water to 'Vase­
line’ Hair Tonic to hair to women to things 
in general. Laboratory evidence of reverse 
magnetism between women and messy hair. 
Positive correlations between alcohol and dry 
hair, cream tonics and clogged-up hair (Rag- 
mop’s Third Law). Required before Christmas 
vacation.
Prerequisite: ANIMAL MAGNETISM 203-204. 
Materials: one 4 oz. bottle‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic
Í
Vaseline
HAIR 
^ TON 1C
o!’g clvaG, 
o!rg clvaI, 
o!’g
Vaseline
HAIR TONIC
Is tfc* rtfbttfW tradtawk 
fl Chu#rNfti-r«ars lac.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, December 9, 1959
Many Records Being 
Set In IM Bowling
It looks like the beginning of another fine tenpin season 
for CIT intramural bowlers.
In the Strikes League, SN’s McClean started off the year 
with a bang, as he rolled a 590 series highlighted by a 245 
game. This fine performance, along with those of his team­
mates, was enough to shutout a powerful SAE “P” team 
despite Dave Harvey’s 560 series. Also in the Strikes League 
DTD rolled a very impressive total to take four points from 
Obelisk “B”. Printing Management led by Stark and Bell, 
540 and 507 respectively, downed KS 3-1.
SAE “G” leads the Spares League taking all four points 
from SN “B”. The Saturday Bachelors with Marik and Swish­
er, a couple of aces who paced SN to the finals in their un­
dergrad years, topped a wrell balanced BSR team 3-1. Marik 
bowled a 226 game and a 538 series. Also in the Spares 
League, DU won over Metals Club 3-1.A---------------------------------------------------
Carnegie Tartan
Let's Go See
The Varsity
BB Team
Water Polo
Season
Begins
Varsity Football Coaches Honored
Carnegie Tech’s “part-time” football coaching staff, who coach football because of 
their love of the sport, was honored at the Curbstone Coaches Annual Awards Banquet, 
Sunday, November 22, at the New Arena Restaurant.
In the Splits league PKT shut 
out BTP, while Obelisk “A” was 
taking four points from a game 
SAE “Lions” team. Although ATO 
scored the highest total in their 
league, they dropped one point to 
the Newman Club.
Second Week
Another week of bowling past 
with most of the surprises coming 
from the Strikes League. SN “A” 
didn’t look like the same team that 
ran over SAE “P” the previous 
week. They squeaked by Printing 
Management, winning two out of 
three games and the total by only 
12 pins. McClean kept up the pace 
he started in the first match with 
a 547 series. SAE ‘‘Purple” vs. the 
Delts proved to be one of the best 
matches of the day.
SAE powered through the first 
two games with scores of 871 and 
828, only to lose the third game in 
the tenth, when Nielsen, rolling in 
the number 5 spot struck out to 
climax a string of five strikes. SAE 
rolled high total for this year with 
a 2454. Reber and Harvey led the 
the SAE’s with 591 and 576 totals. 
Reber holds both high game, 256 
(’57), and high series 639 (’58), 
records in the school. Obelisk “B,” 
led by Don Just with a 546 series, 
rolled a very impressive 2302 total 
to down the KS’s 3-1.
Spares League
In the Spares League, the Sat­
urday Bachelors stayed in front 
by downing DU 3-1. SAE “G” lost 
3 points to the Metals Club, 
knocking them out of their short 
lived reign of the league. BSR 
romped over SN “B” by 450 pins, 
taking all four points.
In the Splits League Obelisk 
“A,” the only undefeated first 
place team, showed a sample of 
their power by rolling an 830 ser­
ies and a 2365 total to down a 
slow starting Tau Delt team by 
360 pins. However, the Obelisks 
had trouble with TDP in the last 
game winning by just two pins. 
Rabatin and Carmichael rolled 520 
and 515 respectively for the win­
ners. ATO led by MacEwen with 
a 547 series came out on top in a 
closely fought match with BTP. 
ATO won two games, one of
these by only one pin, and the
total by 56 pins. The SAE “Lions”
took Newman Club 3-1, while 
PKT was idle with a 4-0 record.
LEAGUE STANDINGS 
Strikes Won Lost
SN “’A* ........................... 7 1
DTD ................................... 5 3
Printing Management .. 4 4
SAE “P" .................... 3 5
OBELISK “B”................ 3 5
KS ..................................... 2 6
Spares Won Lost
Saturday Bachelors___6 2
BSR ................................ 5 3
SAE “G”........................ 5 3
DU .................................. 4 4
METALS........................ 4 4
SN “B” .............................0 8
Splits Won Lost
OBELISK “A”.............. 8 0
PKT ................................ 4 0
ATO ................................ 6 2
SAE “L” ....................... 3 5
NEWMAN ................... 2 ' 6
BTP ................................ 1 7
TDP ................................ 0 4
HIGH GAMES
McClean, SN . .......................... 245
Just, Ob. “B” ........................... 230
Reber, SAE ............................... 229
Marik, S.B...................................... 226
Harvey, SAE.................... 212, 211
HIGH SERIES
Reber, SAE ................................ 591
McClean, SN........................590, 537
Harvey, SAE .................. 576, 560
MacEwen, ATO.......................... 547
Just, Ob. “B” ............................ 546
TEAM GAME HIGH
SAE “P” .......................... 871, 828
OBELISK “A”............................ 830
SN “A” ........................................ 818
OBELISK “B”............................ 818
DTD ................................... 811, 809
TEAM TOTAL HIGH
SAE “P”................................... 2454
SN “A” ..................................... 2368
OBELISK “A” ....................... 2365
DTD ........................................... 2350
OBELISK “B”........................ 2302
The staff, consisting of Dr.* 
Eddie Baker, Eddie Hirschberg, 
A1 Irwin, Dr. Jesse Quatse and 
Walter Burns was cfted for mak­
ing “the outstanding contribution 
to amateur football in the dis­
trict.” This marked the first time 
that this award has been given to 
a group of persons. Selections in 
the past were always limited to an 
individual. Two years ago, Chet 
Smith, Sports Editor of the Pitts­
burgh Press received the honor 
and last year Captain Tom Hamil­
ton of the University of Pitts­
burgh was the recipient.
Other Woix 
The Tech coaches all earn their 
living doing something other than 
coaching football. Dr. Eddie Bak­
er and Dr. Jesse Quatse are both
practicing dentists. Both played 
football for the University of 
Pittsburgh under the late Jock 
Sutherland. Eddie was a star 
quarterback on the Rose Bowl 
team of 1929 while Jesse was an 
All-American tackle in 1931 and 
later played professional football 
for the New York Giants and the 
Green Bay Packers. He joined the 
staff in 1952.
Eddie Hirschberg is a successful 
business man and the owner of a 
local radio station among other 
things. Eddie also played for Pitt 
under Sutherland and later served 
on the coaching staffs of Yale, 
Dartmouth, Scranton, West Vir­
ginia and his Alma Mater.
Al Irwin is a lumber salesman
with the Newell Lumber Com­
pany and has been associated with 
Carnegie Tech football since his 
playing days around 1920. He is 
the only Carnegie Tech graduate 
on the staff and played for thfc’ 
1920 team that upset then power­
ful Washington & Jefferson 6-0. 
Al was a 146 pound center. He 
does all the scouting for Eddie 
Baker and sees only one game 
each year, the last one of the 
season.
Walter Burns is president and 
owner of the Walter Burns Food 
Brokerage Company. He starred 
as a halfback for Alonzo Stagg at 
the University of Chicago froi#- 
1910-14. Following graduation he 
too played pro ball with the Chi­
cago Cardinals. Walt has been ac­
tive in Carnegie Tech football 
since before 1920 when' Judge 
Wally Steffan was head mentor.
Experience
These five men have among 
them about 180 years of football 
experience and give Carnegie 
Tech a coaching staff few col­
leges anywhere, whether big-tim# 
or small-time, can equal. It is in­
deed a rarity in these days of 
high powered football to see five 
men so dedicated to the game.
Dr. Ed. Baker, Area “Small 
College Coach of the Year”
Carnegie Tech head coach, Dr. Eddie Baker has been selected as “Small College Coach of the 
Year” in the area by the Curbstone Coaches of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Baker this season guided his Tartans to a 7-1 season losing only to Westminster in the last 
game of the season 14-12. By winning the first seven games this year and the final two last year, his 
team established a Tech record of nine wins in succession.
Former Quarterback
Eddie Baker has been on the 
Pittsburgh football scene since his 
playing days at the University of 
Pittsburgh in 1929-30. He was a' 
fine quarterback for the Jock 
Sutherland coached team of 1929 
that was invited to play in the 
Rose Bowl. He has been associated 
with Carnegie Tech athletics for 
seventeen years, three as an assist­
ant coach to Bill Kern and four­
teen as head coach. He assisted 
Kern in the 1937-38-39 seasons 
! which were Carnegie’s last big- 
j time. Eddie succeeded Kern as 
head coach in 1940 and because of 
the practice of scheduling several 
I years in advance, played a major 
schedule for the next three years 
! with a non-subsidized, non-re- 
I cruited squad with the result that 
he won only 7 games while los- 
j ing 15.
After a tour of duty in the 
armed forces and a three year 
( term as head coach at Shadyside j 
; Academy, Eddie Baker returned to 
Carnfgie Tech in 1949 to take over 
the reins of a football team that 
had won only one game in its last i 
: 26 and at one time had gone 25| j games in succession without j 
i winning a single contest. In his j 
first year, Baker guided his team | 
to a 4-3-1 record giving Carnegie 
Tech its first winning season since 
the famed Sugar Bowl team of 
1938.
Amazing Record
Since his return in 1949, Tech 
has suffered only one losing sea-; 
i son and has enjoyed its greatest | 
j era in intercollegiate football j 
I winning 58 games, losing 23 and 
j tieing four. Even more impressive 
j is the fact that since losing to 
I powerful Bucknell and Buffalo in 
I the 1957 season, Baker has led his 
j Tartan teams to the amazing rec­
ord of 18-3-1 over a three year 
span.
CXv
Wofp*COMES ALIVE
u
IN THE(gasp!) BIGGESTAND(roar!) FUNNIEST
HOLLYWOOD EVER WHOMPED UP.
With Hollywood’s most exciting cast 
of NEW FACES AND (gasp!) FIGGERS!
PililfH fiWSK US»« m g g ¿¡gPETER I nUUl •at«'«» H» I*» ft»
COMING SOON TO YOUR FAVORITE THEATRE! Watch For It!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December S, 195»—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 11Jt-----------------------------,___________________________________________________________________________________________
ÌM Volleyball Season SAE: City Champions? 
At Half-way Mark
With half the volleyball season already passed, it is still 
not clear which teams will see the playoffs.
To date the better teams have been pitted against the 
\^paker teams in their respective leagues and thy have not 
as of yet played against each other. There have been few 
upsets in any of the leagues. The biggest surprise of the year 
is a game SAE “Libns” team, who upset BSR “A”, an early 
season favorite, and then turned against SN “A” only to be 
defeated in a hard fought three game series.
In the Ace League it will be#—------------------------------------------------
a struggle between ATO “A,” 
and the Faculty Grads.
I’m Inclined to stick
BTP “A,
However 
with ATO because of their ex- 
j»aenee and generally good team | 
play. An up and coming BTP j 
team should place second but they 
will probably find some stiff com­
petition from the Grads.
Set League
TDP “A” and SAE “B” will 
fight it out for fii’st place in the 
Set League. Tau Delts fine court 
play gives them the edge over 
SAE, even though SAE’s spiking 
seems to be the better of the two 
•¡Cms. The final game of the sea­
son will be between these two 
teams and it should be an ex­
citing, well played match. It 
would be a surprise if either team 
was able to win two straight 
games.
Spike League
It looks like SN “A” all the 
way in the Spike League. This 
strong team should be really 
tough in the playoffs. The SAE 
®ions” will probably take second 
place, because of their upset over 
BSR “A.” The Beta Sigs have yet 
to play SN and unless they have 
an exceptional night, the possi­
bilities of them seeing the play­
offs are very slight.
In the Pass League, SAE 
“Purple” should walk off with the 
honors. The SAE’s again return 
with a strong team, built around 
three all-school players. They re- 
(£nn the strongest spiking team 
in the school. It will be a toss up 
between KS and Newman Club 
for second place.
The league standings are as fol­
lows:
PKT .. 
TX “X’ 
PKA .. 
DU . ..
 2
 1
 0
 0
SPIKE
SN “A” .............................3
SAE “Lions” ...................3
BSR “A” ...........................3
ATO “B” ...........................1
OBELISK .........................1
TDP “S” ...........................1
BTP “B” . ........................0
PASS
NEWMAN .......................3
SAE “P” 
DTD “A”
TDP “R” 
METALS 
SN “B” .
SAE gained a margin and the ball 
in the final minutes and finished 
their unbeaten season with a 27- 
24 victory. It w&s the Met Grads 
first loss in their last sixteen 
games.
SAE Purple, representing the 
Carnegie Tech intramural pro­
gram, gained a semi-final touch 
football victory over Pitt’s 
champs, the Chinese Bandits, 21- 
7.
On a muddy field, the SAE’s 
with their rubber cleated shoes 
held an immediate advantage over 
their bigger opponents who played 
with smooth soled sneakers. Tech 
received the opening kick-off but 
was contained by the big boys 
from Pitt. However, Tech kept 
the Bandits from moving the ball, 
and regained possession of the 
ball after four plays. On SAE’s 
third ,down, John Mowrey fired 
a 30-yard strike to Paul Wright, 
good for a touchdown and 6 
points. Mowrey’s pass to Bob 
Walker, for the extra point made 
the score, 7-0.
The game remained calm until 
the second half kick-off. Ray Nix, 
Dick Aust, and Doug Wigle quick-
Trailing 17-8 at half-time, SAE Purple came back with a brilliant second half perform­
ance to defeat the Met Grads 27-24 and win the intramural football championship, 
unbeaten in touch*
ly downed the kick-off receiver on 
his own ten yard line. But a long 
50-yard pass put Pitt back in the 
ballgame, and the successful at­
tempt for the extra point knotted 
the score at 7-all. The game re­
mained calm, again, until Chuck 
Vodrarka went into quarterback 
SAE near the end of the third 
quarter. Kis long run and a pass 
from him to Paul Pheneger put 
SAE ahead as the quarter ended. 
Vodvarka passed to Pheneger for 
the extra point to make the score 
14-7.
SAE’s defense forced Pitt to 
punt after three plays in the final 
quarter. Again, Vodvarka ran 
around his own end for 30 yards 
to put the ball in scoring position. 
He then passed to Bob Reber, 
who was making the Pitt defend­
ers look sick all afternoon, for the 
TD. Charley Nelson passed to 
Reber for the extra point to make 
the score 21-7. No more scoring 
was done the rest of the game.
This week SAE meets the Du- 
quesne IM champs, Beta Pi, for 
the city championship. Should 
they win, it will be the first time 
a Tech team has held the honor.
The Grads, 
play the past two years, took the 
lead early in the first quarter 
with a touchdown pass from quar- 
back John Cigan to all-school end 
Ben Patz. SAE couldn’t get mov­
ing as the hard rushing Grad line 
nailed Chuck Vodvarka, all-school 
quarterback, several times in his 
own backfield. Every SAE rally 
was stopped short and only three 
first down were gained during the 
entire first half. Meanwhile, the 
SAE defense was unable to stop 
Patz, Karcher, & Co. who rolled 
on for two more TD’s and a 17 
point total at the half.
The second half the picture 
changed as Vodvarka began to 
find his favorite target,, glue-fing­
ered end John Mowrey, far and 
away from Met Grad defenders. 
The SAE offensive closed the 
scoring gap at 23 to 21 while the 
defensive line play of Ray Nix and 
some fine pass defending by Dick 
Aust held their opponents down.
In the fourth quarted the game 
turned into a see-saw affair and 
a scoring duel between Cigan and 
Patz of the Grads and Vodvarka 
and Mowrey of SAE. Both teams 
held the lead several times but
ACEWonLost
BTP “A” ........................30
Fac. Grad ................. . .30
ATO “A” ...................20
BSR “B” ........................13
TX “T” ..........................03
%TT> “D”..........
SET
..............03
SAE “B” ........................30
TDP “A” . ;___..............20
New 1960 liM brings you taste...more taste...
More taste by far...
yet low in tar!
New, free-flowing Miracle Tip Only the I960 L‘M ¦ Frees up flavor 
unlocks natural tobacco flavor! other filters ¿queeze in! ¦ Checks tars without 
That’s why L‘M can blend fine tobaccos choking taste! ¦ Gives you the full, exciting flavor 
+r» ciii"f- a filter hn+ +n «nit vour taste! of the world’s finest, naturally mild tobaccos!
Tech Runners 
Sprint During 
thanksgiving
By Glenn Kiepac
A star Tech runner of six years 
ago and the first man on this 
year’s cross-country team recent­
ly made a fine showing at the 
fiftieth annual Berwick Marathon. 
A field of eighty men from all 
over the East competed in the 
toughest field ever for the 9-1/3 
mile run.8
Bob Carman, the alumnus who 
now a graduate student at Pitt, 
lost his crown to Jim Green of 
Boston who won in 46 minutes 
and 54 seconds. Carman’s time of 
48.06 was good for second.
Bruce Dobras, who led the 
cross-country team this year, 
finished sixteenth with a time of 
51:07. The strength of the field is 
indicated by the fact that this 
time would have taken sixth in 
\>t year’s race.
Shanahan C. C. of Philadel­
phia took the team trophy over 
Carman’s Ammon A.C. of Pitts­
burgh, the defending champions.
Other area runners jwho com­
peted and their places were Herb 
Rogers of West Virginia, twenty- 
third; Paul Sanders of Westmin­
ster, twenty-sixth; and Dave Deg- 
enhardt of Pitt,More taste by far...yet low in tar ...And they said “It couldn't be done!”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, December 9, 1959
DRINK
No technical experience necessary! Easy step-by-step instructions!To date WAA. has played three 
volleyball matches. The first two 
matches were lost while playing 
Pitt physical education majors and 
the Pitt WAA. However, the ta­
bles turned when the Tech team 
played Chatham and came out on 
top.
Saturday, December 5, Nan El- 
son, Leslie Asplandt, Nancy Dier- 
dorf, Charlotte Callen, Pat Mills, 
Marty Bartlett, Sue Caddish, and 
Nancy Ferree attended the volley­
ball playday at Geneva College. 
It was reported to have been a 
profitable and enjoyable day.
Portfolio Briefcose
With Purchase of 5 Packs 
PHILIP MORRIS ALPINE
MARLBORO PARLIAMENT
STEREOPHONIC DUAL PREAMPLIFIER
IHF8S . . . Extremely flexible. A real bargain!
KIT *39.95
STEREOPHONIC DUAL AMPLIFIER-PREAMPLIFIER
#HF8I . . . Complet« stereo control center.
[IT *69.95
At WOODLAWN
FM TUNER #HFT-90 AH TUNER—# HFT-94
One of the most advanced tuner« Designed for high fidelityon the market today! applications.
KIT *39.95 KIT *39.95 S'S?
Cover $3.95 Cover $3.95
som* b SoG no-obligation demonstration. Svv and hear Blco's complete line 
ot components. It's easy to do ; T and it's fun. Budget terms arrangedI
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING 
f"$50TAR5NNE 4609 FORBES AVE. (near Craig St.) 
! students I , MUseum 1.1288
'areyion
POPnLWi FCLT\i PSc!s\DUAL FILTER
It’s a puzzlement
Here’s how the Dual Filter does it: 1\ 2\
1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL...defi­
nitely proved to make the smoke of a cigarette mild and smooth ...
2. with an efficient pure white outer filter. Together they bring you the 
real thing in mildness and fine tobacco taste!
When you’re old enough to go to college, 
you’re old enough to go out with girls. When 
you’re old enough to go out with girls, who needs 
college? Oh well, there’s always Coke« JRNEW DUAL FILTERBottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
5722 Central Avi, HI 1-7011Product ^ if our middU name T. CoJ
WAA Girls 
Attend Volley- 
Ball Playday
Students
Get Your FREE
BUILD THE 
BEST STEREO
BUILD THE 
BEST HI-FI
SAVE y2 with KITS
