'
ï .i:
MBÜ8
1"' A
I ' PI
(V,¦; K iv.-l.iOU t
K, ^ ; '¦ ; . ?í’v-:í 
|ity, Pitia1- ' ¡tBinttlòfume BS,^»tirnbsr 25. iVtev cJ
fifiOrcMKrai** ' fife»*.. ‘r'-ü -, -z****-
Kji ¦
fi
.1^ $
-*•* ÿf
í .V* ^ ; • »*> • »3' v*‘*' ‘ \ 1 ¦«A-í» ^ WmÉmm&M *. yt./r _ . -æ<ia» ¦
:V' , v - '' ïï1ïïï"AIP" ( ï "V
! J| -
tóSlí i 
fe; >
1 17 JL/i I/ Æ*w)r^
màtìr¿Si»-- ¦ íi ;:A © #1 \ /¦
f ¿fe-*»» Wk^ÊËÈÊ:fi vigte !
. ¦ *
i I/gI. v e
KÉP
¦
^^y^'iérmáiÉ fe ^^ ^ ,,-:w
¦ ¦ ' :v /¦ §.” í - ' v^>4t - r ¡^iSpE? - %a*ÄWSL<" r i AaíSfefc.
~~, .«effigiUQHPQN

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The Tartan gives thistles & thorns for '82-'83
This year we bring you once again our This­
tles and Thoms. The beautiful thistle flower 
goes to those who have done something posi* 
tive, while the ugly thorn is given to those 
guilty of “sticking” the students. Therefore, we 
award the following:
A plaid thisde to Dean Swank for all his 
years of good service to CMU, and to many 
more.
A thisde to Dean Walter for a good try dur­
ing his first year even if he was inconsistent 
many dmes.
Always a thisde to Dean Cox.
A goof-ball thorn to President Cyert for his 
lack of communication with students.
A thisde to the goof balls.
A thorn to IBM. (Guess why.)
A thorn to Food Service for Passover.
A thisde to Housing for not repeating last 
year’s lottery fiasco, but a thorn to Tony Mar­
tin for putting too many restrictions on 
residents.
A ten-cent thorn to Domino’s for cancelling 
free Pepsis.
A thisde to Lex Kavoulakis for keeping the 
antics of Senate to a minimum!
A thorn to the drooling mutt,
A thisde to the grounds crew for trying to 
make the campus more attractive.
A thorn to the TA’s who can’t even speak 
English and who try to teach classes.
A thorn to the administrators who decided 
that freshmen should live off-campus.
A thisde to the administration for finally 
filling the store fronts.
A thorn to Doug Van Houweling for unfair 
computing policies.
A thisde to the class of ’83 for putting up 
with this place for four (or more) years.
A thorn to the individuals who give the 
fraternity system a bad name.
A thisde to the Thisde for a good yearbook.
A thisde to our departing editors Louise 
Crocoll and John Cantine for putting up with 
us.
A thorn to whoever was/is supposed to get 
the Adamson wing done. When?
A chocolate-chip thisde to the organizers 
and participants in the tuition rally.
A tragic thorn to Scotch ’n’ Soda’s Feli^ 
Pratto and the Senate Finance committee for 
an unnecessary battle.
A thisde to Ted Fenton and the teaching 
center.
A thisde to Max, because he’s cuter than 
Nate.
A thorn to the censor who went againsi 
tradition and painted over the fence during tfe 
day. You know who you are.
A thisde to Campus Police/Security 
(finally) catching the two students who stole 
$40,000 in computer equipment.
A thisde to Student Affairs for organizin 
beneficial freshman orientation.
A thisde to the City of Pittsburgh for allow 
ing buggy to continue, despite problems wit 
construction.
A thorn to the Registrar for poor finals sch 
dules and for forgetting about some depart 
ments in the schedule book.
In defense of liberalism: thoughts explained
By Stuart Shapiro
Now that I’ve spent the better part of a 
year harping on various issues, most of 
which are near and dear to the hearts of 
liberals everywhere, I guess it’s about time I 
stood back and tried to explain, 
particularly to myself, just why I 
think what I happen to think. 
Since a great deal erf what I think 
is in fact liberal, I suppose what I’m really 
asking myself is why the hell I’m a liberal. (I 
prefer to think of myself as a neoliberal, but 
that’s a rather amorphous disdnction. A 
rose by any other name ...)
Most conservatives would probably claim 
that anyone who sanctions government 
intervention in the private sector can hardly 
purport to be a liberal as historically 
defined. I would argue just the opposite. 
Modem liberalism at its core still embraces 
the idea of maximizing individual freedom. 
What’s changed is how we define freedom; I 
think it’s changed for the better.
What a lot of conservatives refuse to recog­
nize is that measurements of freedom are 
dependent on not just the absence of govern­
ment controls, but on the nature of the choi­
ces we are free to make. In the late nineteenth 
century, for example, liberty of contract was 
considered a legal cornerstone of the Ameri-
can socio-economic system. Under the then 
prevailing theory, workers were entitled to 
no redress for the often horrible working con­
ditions they endured. Since they had freely 
entered into an implicit contract by becom­
ing employees, they were not entided to any­
thing more than the status quo. But when 
the choice is to either work or starve (or more 
accurately, to starve at a faster rate than if 
one were not working), in reality there is no 
choice. Theirs was an illusory freedom.
To suggest that wholesale abolition of 
federal regulatory agencies and assistance 
programs will increase our freedom is to 
ignore the quality of that freedom. Polluters 
would be free to pollute, manufacturers 
would be free to market dangerous products, 
the poor would ^e free to live in even greater 
squalor, and many of the elderly would be 
free to go without adequate medical care. 
That’s not the mark of a free society; it’s the 
mark of an uncaring one.
Not to worry, many conservatives would 
say. Private clarities would help the needy, 
the free market would work its wonders and 
discourage unacceptable behavior. To some 
extent they are and always have been right. 
But private charity is never a sure thing and 
the market that we have to live with in real 
life is a far cry from the well oiled machine
described in economics textbooks. The real 
one has all kinds of imperfections and 
inadequacies. However strongly we might 
wish for it, and there are reasons not to, the 
free market that conservatives dream about 
does not and never will exist
And I doubt that it would be all that 
desirable even if it did exist. Pure economic 
freedom, i.e. pure capitalism, is an oppres­
sive and exceedingly harsh way of life in 
which the invisible hand all too often resem­
bles a mailed fist. Again, if we are really 
unconcerned with the human costs of our 
socio-economic system, then I guess that’s 
the way to go.
The idea behind liberalism is not to 
impose ever greater amounts of regulation 
and supervision upon society. The real idea 
is to provide an environment in which 
genuine human freedom is maximized, the 
kind of environment in which individuals 
choose how to live productive lives. I have 
never quite understood the high regard in 
which many conservatives hold the struggle 
for human survival. It should produce sor­
row, not admiration; there are much better 
purposes to which human resources can be 
put. Most of those who are caught in the 
fallout of our socio-economic system are 
quite willing to help themselves, but simply
sthl&or ntfo&r nfn'8rv 2-3hov&t h-a'2m
By Orpheus Allison
Much change has occured here since I 
came in the fall of last year. Tuition protests 
were held, the administration came out 
looking like an ogre, and students wrote for 
jfffjgg and against the move into the 
computer age. Now, an even 
» more startling announcement 
has come forth. The administra­
tion wishes to limit the number of students 
that can be on any computer for any pur­
pose. This new load limit is intended to 
push students away from the mainframe 
units and into the new personal computers 
that the university is buying.
The concept is good in that it will help to 
break-in students, faculty and administrators 
to the day when almost all of our undergrad­
uate computer work will be done on the 
personal computers of the future. It is bad in 
that it arbitrarily denies the students access
to the computer if the load is too high. 
There is no differentiating between students 
who have a high need for a computer and 
those who have a low need for a computer.
Should a student who needs to do a paper 
be given preference over a student who needs 
to write a program? A load limit will ignore 
the priority factor and just take whoever 
comes first. Now granted, there is a need to 
maintain a just and reasonable amount of 
usage. However, how should the priorities 
be defined so that only those students who 
have high priority will be able to get on?
Who will establish the guidelines for 
priority? The administration, Student 
Senate, Faculty, who? And why set a limit 
anyway? It only prevents crashing. What are 
a few crashes in a computer?
Be that as it may, this question is for us to 
answer after we return in the fall. After we
have cooled down our tempers, I think that 
we all can make wiser and more intelligent 
input into the university’s new thoughts 
concerning our move into the computer
age.
Change is continuous, and if this year is 
any indication of years to come, the change 
will be beneficial and welcome for all.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of indti'idual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indti'idual authors 
who are usually members of the I’nn'ersity commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
imfication. Names will be withheld upon request. 
rhe Tartan re.sen *s the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
lack the opportunity.
That is the key. Liberalism doesn 
demand equality of outcome. It simp 
demands true equality of opportunity. An 
that demands the existence of genuine fra 
dom, not the freedom to be a victim of fort 
totally beyond one’s control.
Government intervention is hardly 
answer to all our problems. It is often ine 
dent and unnecessarily burdensome, 
just because those problems are difficult 
solve is no argument for not trying to era 
a more just society. The alternative is tota 
refuge in the intellectually and mora 
indefensible imperative to leave 
enough alone and keep government whe 
it belongs-out of sight and out of min 
What remains, for the most part, is eve 
man for himself, with only an empty fa 
dom for comfort.
TheTartan
Editor in Chief......................................Monica Cel
Managing Editor........................................Gregg
Business Manager............................... Kathy Was
News Editor...................................Joanne Savin
Features Editor...............................Pauline Krafl
Entertainment Editor..........................Susan Pel
Sports Editor....................................................Jeff 1
Photography Editor...........................Steve Wina'
Production Manager...................Carolyn Spe«1
Ad Manager...........................................Bonnie
Typesetting Manager.............................Patti Call
Art Director.......................................Michael Sussi*
Contributing Editors.............................Alice Alf<
Vince Gui1 
Louise G#
Assoc. Ent. Editor...................................John Can1
Assistant Business Mgr.................................Tara
Assistant News Editors......................Chris John*
Pauline
Asst Features Editor..............................Monica
AssC Sports Editor......................................Ric M
Asst Production Mgr...............................Peter®
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Esther 
derman, Andrew Ghali, Scott Safier-
Copyright ^ 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from public^1 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: ftj 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-21 IS-** 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
&vv&tr
FA artist should be kept
jitor:
yVs students of a university the caliber of 
1U, CFA, we are deeply concerned about 
possible loss of one of the finest, most 
Qualified faculty members ever to be on staff 
Lre. We are speaking of Phil Harris, a man 
vhose capability and capacity to instruct 
.as made him one of the few. Although his 
lasses this semester and last were limited to 
awing, Advanced Drawing, and Design,
, gives his time and guidance to each stu- 
Bent in whatever area they may need, often 
[even days a week. He is genuinely con­
ned about the individual students and 
heir growth.
As a visiting artist on staff at CFA, Phil 
is was invited to teach here for the 1982- 
term. To remain on staff here for the 
983-84 term another invitation must be 
xtended to him. He has received no invita- 
lon to date. Nor have they extended an 
hvitation to anyone else. Even if they were 
onsidering replacing him--as the staff has 
Iwindled in number--it is too late in the year 
find anyone who could come close to 
aving his credentials, let alone his devotion 
nd ability.
Is this rare ability to teach soon to be 
enied us and future CFA students because 
something as trite as an oversight on the 
rt of those in charge, or is it a loss of 
|rospective foresight?
The following petition will express our 
[ncerity.
We the undersigned, as students con- 
for the quality erf the education we 
eive, hereby state that Carnegie Fine Arts 
dll be severely short-changing the future of 
ase students who are denied the opportun- 
|ies afforded through the instruction of Phil 
ris. The true ability to teach, to 
lighten, to motivate and inspire a student 
[ívolves more than bi-weekly ¿lasses. Mr. 
ris gives this type of dedication to each
individual student while aiding in their 
growth. What a loss it would be if Mr. Har­
ris is not encouraged to remain on the CFA 
Faculty ... a loss not only to students, but a 
loss to the prospective foresight of those in 
charge.
This petition was signed by over 200 stu­
dents in the College of Fine Arts.
Donors thanked
Editor:
I just wanted to write a quick letter thank­
ing the CMU campus for its participation in 
Pole-Sit ’83. The event, sponsored by Theta 
Xi and Kappa Alpha Theta raised approxi­
mately $5000 for multiple sclerosis. The 
CMU community clearly provided the 
majority of the donations with $800 coming 
from the base of the pole alone.
Even though the event was delayed one 
day due to rain, and suffered from an assort­
ment of wind, snow and rain, we spent a 
total of 153 hours on top. Overall, it was a 
definite success and again many thanks to 
those who participated and helped.
John R. Zappa 
Pole-Sit ’83 Chairman
& CP£>
MARKET«
8
puzodcpFla I
n
How would Socrates do here at CMU?
Editor:
This is an effort to cause hesitation in the 
vast machine of the CMU student body and 
administration. The following is an excerpt 
from Plato’s Apology in which he repres­
ents his teacher, Socrates, defending himself 
against the charges of corrupting the youth 
and introducing strange gods.
What I presume to do is present this in a 
slighdy different context, namely the aca­
demic philosophy of Camegie-Mellon. 
This may be done simply by imagining 
Socrates a student at CMU instead of a resi­
dent of the city of Athens. Allow me to sub-
stitute the proper terms.
“Students & Administrators (men) of 
CMU (Athens), I honor and love you; but I 
shall obey God rather than you, and while I 
have life and strength I shall never cease 
from the practice and teaching of philo­
sophy, exhorting anyone whom I meet and 
saying to him after my manner: You, my 
friend, — a student (citizen) of the great and 
mighty and wise campus (city) of CMU 
(Athens) — are you not ashamed of heaping 
up the greatest amount of money and honor 
and reputation and caring so little about 
wisdom and truth and the greatest improve-
ment of the soul, which you never need at 
all?”
How would you react to this junior his­
tory major named Socrates? Expel him from 
school, snicker at him when he walked by? 
In Athens he was condemned to death.
Or would he prompt a personal examina­
tion of your motivations? Pushing you to 
question how you are responding to the 
demands society places on the individual. — 
at CMU, not likely.
Respectfully,
An Imminent Transfer
tudents need to be restrained
ampuses polarized against conservatives
By R. Emmett Tyrell Jr.
Spring is here, and that means that on 
bllege campuses there will be beer guzzling 
pd lewd doings on the lawns of fraternity 
pd sorority houses. There will also be dem­
onstrators, suppressing com­
mencement speakers and maybe 
even bringing violence upon 
them. Actually, the suppression 
[ campus speakers has been on the rise for 
[me time, but college officials fear it will 
ise with the balmy breezes.
[Now, which species of campus highjinks 
you suppose will be put down more 
% by university administrators? Let me 
you: indignant administrators will call 
die cops with alacrity and a clear con- 
[ience when the jolly times turn overly hib- 
^us. Yet when a minority of idealists 
liven by goof-ball enthusiasms shouts 
ph a distinguished speaker or heaves 
bris at him, a surprising number of uni- 
fsity administrators will find the problem 
delicate indeed.
P a campaign being orchestrated by the 
Right or that other dreadful menace to 
|r freedoms, the Moral Majority? Imagine 
furor if it were. The New York Times 
pQrial pages would be inked in purple, 
is would be shed on the evening news. 
|ery good liberal would be in his prayer 
amber, and at Yale, President A. Bartlett 
arnatti would be launching still moreala- 
against the rising intolerance of the 
[ister Christian Right, 
f course the speakers being harassed are 
that controversial, at least not to the
mainstream Americans whose tax dollars 
keep many of our institutions of higher 
learning open. Rather, the speakers are usu­
ally representatives of our government or 
other eminent citizens with perfectly demo­
cratic views. Why is it so difficult to main­
tain order when they arrive on campus? For 
that matter, why is their presence so 
inflammatory?
The answer is that American universities 
are increasingly provinces of bitterness, 
extremism and anti-democratic values. 
Though the vast majority of university pro-
fessors and administrators are well- 
intentioned people of carefully elaborated 
liberality, they are just disinclined to scotch 
their radicals even when the radicals act like 
storm troopers.
Moreover, there is that other little bug in 
their systems. It is hard for them to accept 
conservatives as having the same moral heft 
as liberals, not to mention those legendary 
species of dissenter, the Marxist, the anar­
chist, the militant. These conventional lib­
erals expect conservatives to run small 
businesses and dutifully pay taxes. Those
are the “good conservatives.” When such 
conservatives express political view they 
cause consternation, and when they express 
those views forcefully they transform them­
selves into “arch” conservatives and very 
dubious characters.
A frequent victim of campus idealists has 
been our chief delegate to the United 
Nations, Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, 
one of the more accomplished women to 
step off a college campus--she was professor 
at Georgetown for a decade-and into public 
continued on page 11
Nate and Max reunited at pound
By Nate Solano 
Coming off a marathon 36 hour paper 
campaign, I proceded to fall asleep for 3 
hours (6-9 p.m.). Upon waking I found no 
sign of my dog Max and as my roommates 
were gone, I assumed that they 
had him. Then they returned 
around 12:00 a.m. They did not 
have the dog and we concluded 
that he had run away. I risked my life by 
walking around South Oakland until 3:30 
a.m. fruidessly searching for Max in dark 
alleys. Having given up hope I was contacted 
by Animal Control, informing me that they 
had my dog. So I drove down to the Rescue 
League to bail out Max. Now here comes 
the rub. 12 dogs looked just like Max and I. 
think that I got die right one but I’m just not 
sure. If you have ever, seen my dog please 
come and identify him just in case.
CHAPTER TWO -THE DATE 
CONTINUES
So we’re driving down an entrance ramp 
onto the Parkway and my windshield wip­
ers stop and I mean freeze. Well at 60 mph 
the window gets covered with rain pretty fast 
and Jean suggests that maybe I could wipe 
the windshield with my hand which man­
ages to smear the window and make matters 
worse (though don’t blame her, I would 
have tried it even if she hadn’t suggested it). 
So we pull off at Squirrel Hill into this 
Amaco station and I use the technical 
knowledge that H&SS doesn’tpermit its stu­
dents (think Van Horn changes his own 
spark plugs?), dig the wires out of the steer­
ing column, and splice the broken wire.
Anyway, we miss the movie we were 
going to see and Jean is dead set against
going to see Roller Derby (in town for one 
performance onfy) jjnd I really don’t want to 
see the flying Kosomonaut brothers (or wha­
tever they’re called) and I’m starting to get 
scared that we’re never going to figure out 
what to do and she’s going to demand I take 
her home.
END OF CHAPTER TWO
I will be in the office for the last office 
hours of the year on Wednesday from 3-5 
p.m. and Thursday from 7-sometime in the
a.m. As a general comment, I like the sheep,
I think they represent something of serious 
importance to our campus. If you need to 
contact me at home my phone number is 
687-6404. Have an interesting summer and 
Get A Job!
NEXT YEAR: My face grows pale and 
my diroat tightens. The saga continues.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—May 3, 1983
p-t&.--C GntC&8r nwn'anEa& S-t ro33&t l-or'8f
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffwriter
A and E towers in Morewood Gardens 
will be available for summer housing for 
students, according to director of housing 
Anthony Martin. Students can choose to live 
in standard or prime rooms or in the E tower 
apartments. The Shadyside apartments will 
also be available for summer housing.
For students who will be staying in a 
room for only a few days, Martin said, the 
rate is $10 per day for a double. For students 
who are staying for a six week summer ses­
sion, the rate is $25 per week for a double, 
and $40 per week for a single. A daily or 
weekly maid service is also available, for an 
additional charge.
MMP has 
mixed luck
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The Co-op and the Caber dub, both 
located in the storefront below the sororities 
on Margaret Morrison Ave., have had differ­
ing operating success, since their respective 
openings in March and April. The Co-op 
convenience store has had a surge in busi­
ness, while the Caber Club has been consid­
erably less successful.
Co-op Supervisor, Laura Fogg com­
mented that the Co-op has increased it’s 
clientele, since it’s opening in March. “Busi­
ness has been increasing steadily over the 
last month. We have about 350 a day now. 
With finals, I expect that number to go up.” 
said Fogg.
“More students find that we sell sand­
wiches and meat things in the deli, which 
has helped business.” Fogg added that if she 
receives ten or more requests for an item, she 
always orders it.
The Caber Club hasn’t fared as well. 
Kathy Paczkowski, the facility’s supervisor, 
thinks the reason lies in the poor timing of 
the club’s opening. “People stop in to look 
or to get a free workout, but they don’t want 
to commit themselves this late in the semes­
ter. Besides, we opened just before carnival.”
The Caber Club uses Nautilus and 
Powermaster to help a client develop his 
own personalized program. The club was 
scheduled to open in early February, but the 
equipment delivery was delayed because of 
the trucking strike that was occurring at that 
time. Use of the facility is open to all CMU 
faculty, staff, and students at $2 a visit or $20 
a month. Showers, as well as key and towel 
service are also provided.
Both the Caber Club and the Co-op will 
be in operation this summer between 9:30
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Neither facility will be 
hiring any extra student help during the 
summer.
Fraternities and sororities have their own 
leases, according to Martin, so a student 
should contact them directly to inquire 
about summer housing. He noted that the 
sororities did not offer summer housing in 
the past, but since their new lease went into 
effect they can now stay open during the 
summer with at least 50% occupancy.
According to Martin, the Housing Office 
also offers a Referral Service to students 
interested in summer housing. Through 
this service members of the Housing Office 
provide a list of rooms and apartments avail­
able both on and off campus, and can also 
help students to find roommates.
Because of the relatively small demand for,
photo by Bob Fischel
A Chi O advertises the “Charitable Chairs” event in front erf Doherty Hall.
Senior’s job market bleak
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffwriter
Seniors are facing a tough job market, 
according to Dennis Ryan of the Placement 
Center. “In general, the number of employ­
ers on campus is down about 12%,” said 
Ryan. The number of job offers reported is 
down even further, more than 30% lower 
than last year.
CMU is actually doing well in compari­
son to the national average. The College 
council’s Salary Survey, a national overview 
of the job market for college grads, reports 
that job offers nationwide are down a whop­
ping 46%. The economy is being blamed for 
most of the problem. “The basic industries 
are hurting,” says Ryan, “and they have 
looked to trim where they can.”
The service industry has not been hit as 
hard, which helps to explain the strong 
showing of H&SS and AMS students this 
year. The group hurt the worst by the cur­
rent situation are the Chem E’s. Not only is 
the economy bad, but the current oil glut 
has made many companies take a “long” 
hard look” at their staffing.
EE’s and Comp Sci graduates are having
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING
LSAT/ 
GMAT
j"5jF"F,isM BsP"z5z
NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. or 32-hr. “Weekender" courses 
Live lectures • Simulated exam conditions • Special home-study 
materials • Tape library • Up-to-date course materials • CounselingLSAT 40-hr. begins May 19 
courses 32-hr. begins June 4
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering 
the LSAT 'GMAT exams and the Law School/Graduate Business School 
admission process, call now(800) 223-2618TOLL FREE tr write:
The National Center for Educational Testing 
1271 Ave. ot the Americas, Suite 777 Newferk. N T. 10020
a “productive year”, says Ryan, which he 
attributes to the growth in high-tech sales in 
this country.
Salaries are showing some signs of wear 
and tear, as well. Previous years have 
brought increases of 10-12% in reported 
salaries, while this years’ crop is reporting 
increases of only 2-3%. “During the last 
month, month and a half we’ve seen some 
slight improvement” says Ryan. He antici­
pates a stronger market for ‘84 grads, riding 
a “slow and plodding” economic upturn; 
“Nothing overwhelming”, says Ryan.
Maureen Barcic, Job Development Spe­
cialist and in charge of the summer place­
ment program here at CMU, is “pleased” 
with the activity so far this year. “WTe’ve had 
several major corporations on campus” says 
Barcic.
Placements so far are “way ahead” of last 
year: March of 1982 showed only 11 place­
ments, while March 1983 came in with 22 
placements. Barcic stressed that “Just 
because recruiting is over doesn’t mean that 
summer opportunities are over. The bulk of 
them haven’t come in yet.”
Barcic’s office placed 18 people in both 
June and July of last summer. She pointed 
out that there is sometimes a problem in 
reaching students after finals. “It’s impor­
tant that students let us know where they are 
after May 15” said Barcic.
Barcic’s overall impression of the summer 
job market is that “things are a little better 
than last year. I’m hoping this indicates an 
increase in permanent opportunities.”
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
on campus summer housing, Martin noted 
the students who do opt to live on campuj 
have a greater choice of rooms. “Doubles ” 
he pointed out, “can turn into singles.”
The Housing Office is eager to provide 
housing to any individuals or groups dur­
ing the summer, according to Martin 
whether or not they are connected to the 
University. He said that they hope to 
improve the hotel-type services in the 
domis, such as maid service, to attract more 
people and hence generate greater income 
This extra income, Martin said, could then 
be applied to the expense budget for the rest 
of the year.
Gt&&Rr l&ah 
2lnt'v'&r
By CHERYL POTTER
Special for the Tartan
Throughout the year, CMU fraternities 
and sororities have raised money and done 
volunteer work for people who needed 
assistance. Some Greeks donated to their 
national charity; others helped anyone who 
needed it. Following are some of the many 
philanthropy projects Greeks have done for 
the needy in the past year.
All Greek organizations joined forces ti 
help a girl who needed a bone marrow trai 
plant. UFO raised several thousand doll; 
by canvassing the campus for donations.
ATO — As well as appearing on T.V. 
WTAE during the Telethon for the Si 
ATO also donated $150 from the house) 
video arcades — all for those who have cei 
bral palsy. Over half the brothers gave bl< 
in December, and last January, ATOscalli 
alumni, raising $2025 for CMU.
DTD — April 13 the fraternity held 
Bike-A-Thon for the National Arthrii 
Foundation, raising almost $800 for thi
DU — Brothers and ChiO planned 
large “Charitable Chairs” musical 
game on the cut for 1500 people or more 
April 30. But due to poor weather forei 
they plan to auction the prizes instead 
ceeds go to Easter Seals.
Kap Sig — Last October approximai 
30 brothers answered phones for WQE1 
during their membership drive. Broth« 
also took retarded citizens toa baseball 
in November.
Phi Kap - An elaborate Dance Marathi 
for the entire campus was Phi Kap’s phi 
thropy project last September. The festi' 
ties included giving away $1000 worth 
prizes, an appearance by Jeff McKay of B- 
refreshments, and music from 6 p.m. Sat1 
day to 1 p.m. Sunday. Proceeds w< 
donated to the Children’s Hospital 
Pittsburgh.
Pika — Psyched to raise money for 
girl who needed the bone marrow 
plant, Pika ran a Drink-A-Thon, ge® 
pledges for every beer they drank 
donated approximately $300 to the cai 
During Carnival, the brothers had a pi1 
ing pond for the American Cancer Soci'
Pi Lam — Thirty brothers answfl 
phones during Channel 4’s telethon for 
bral palsy last January.
continued on
Marcello's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
Theses—Manuscripts—Research/ter^1 | 
papers—resumes/repetitive letters 
(Turabian—APA—MLA strongly
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Bnaa pru (&rv g)1NgWb) 
A0T l-ot r&tw'2&O j 
10% discount with coupon 1>

---------------------------------------------------

May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5
1983 Year in review: old ed's last shots
By AUCE ALFONSI
Tartan Contributing Editor
... and now it’s time to say goodbye to all 
our family.
“Oh my god,” I said when they reminded 
me, "not the year-in-review article!” I fell to 
my knees in front of Monica, 
“Please, anything but that . . . 
I’ll clean up the Dominos’ pizza 
boxes . . . I’ll write IM softball 
results. . . I’ll edit Nate’s column for gram­
mar.” Nothing worked; thus, (and so) here I 
sit before a humming green AM Varityper 
screen (model 5404) attempdng to assimi­
late, disseminate, and regurgitate the events 
of the past academic year as reported by 
(drumroll please) The Tartan.
So the least you people can do is read it, 
geez.
Let us (not to be confused with lettuce) 
begin with:
SEPTEMBER
Here’s where it all began. Headliner for 
the fiist edition of the year, “Disciplinary 
action closes ATO for summer.” The Tar­
tan reported fraternity, Alpha Tau Omega 
as being closed from June 14 through the 
end of the summer. The decision was made 
by the housing office and upheld by the 
disciplinary committee. (Stay tuned for 
more on ATO.)
The beloved Earle Swank, Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs, stepped down after holding his 
position since 1956. Swank took a teaching 
postion in the English Department. (We at 
The Tartan do miss him, but find Swank’s 
replacement, Brad Walter, a fun guy and a 
good frisbee player.)
Oh, by the way, The Tartan won six col­
lege press awards at the Pennsylvania Col­
lege Press Association convention. Awards 
were won in General Column writing, Pho­
tography, Artwork, Public Service, and Edi­
torial Cartoon. (See, we’re doing something 
right. . . no, I’m not asking if you care.)
President Cyert proposed an alchohol 
policy, “to crack down upon alcohol abuse 
on campus.” Mary Suber, a campus police 
officer, was promoted to sergeant. A well- 
liked physics professor, Dr. Julius Ashkin, 
passed away (June 4) at the age of 61. Robert 
Sekerka was promoted from department 
head of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science to the position of Dean of 
the Mellon College of Science. Paul Chriti- 
ano, professor of civil engineering, was 
appointed to the position of associate dean 
of CIT.
September was also the month we found 
out two students were arrested for the theft of 
140,000 in computer and audio-visual 
equipment (big pockets). Some of the stolen 
property had been found at the Delta 
Upsilon house.
The Great Bird of the Galaxy, Gene Rod- 
denberry, beamed to CMU to with some 
nostalgic memories of Star Trek. The Beaux 
Arts Ball was postponed until 1985. And 
students heard hundreds of pairs of 
Nikes thundering passed the campus on the 
Corning of the Great Race.
OCTOBER
This was the month some of the campus 
and most of the Greek’s became convinced 
The Tartan was-out-to-get fraternities, 
had an authentic Haunted House, 
maybe too authentic. A Pittsburgh citizen, 
shocked when he saw ZBT using real tomb­
stones, called CMU security and the Pitts­
burgh police. There were no arrests, and 
n°thing was legally wrong except a city 
0rdinance violation which was cleared up 
Wl|h the return of the stones. The campus
breathed a sigh of relief when the ZBT Presi­
dent asserted, “My men didn’t do anything wrong.”
October was the month Nate Solano was 
heard to say, “Cyert’s hit the students in their 
escpae, and they’re likely to bring on some 
bad publicity after that. 1 think it’s sad that 
alcohol is one of the few things that’s going 
to unify the students to protest.” And Presi­
dent Cyert was heard to say, “Did you see 
those goofball students? Why don’t you see 
if you can disperse them.”
The Gang of Four came to rock (the 
Casba? — sorry wrong group) Skibo, and 
there was Homecoming with Kellie Carney 
and Brian Taubler making a handsome Mr. 
and Miss Varsity. Theta Xi and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma accepted awards for their 
winning floats.
Fraternity Rush came through with 233 
pledges (even with The Tartan’s “sabot­
age”). Beta Theta Pi and Zeta Beta Tau tied 
with 32 pledges each. White House News­
week reporter Eleanor Clift told CMU stu­
dents a few anecdotes about Reagan. Then 
there was that litde bit of news for which we 
decided to lower The Tartan flag . . .
NOVEMBER
The administration decided to talk to stu­
dents about computers via a “Computing 
Forum.” The Wherrett room was packed 
and members of the administration fielded 
questions. The most interesting moment 
was when, from the back of the room, a CFA 
drama department student expressed con­
cern over the direction of the University. He 
pointed out that with the mandatory pur­
chasing of a personal computer, “Students 
are going to be more seletive; there will be a 
different breed of students coming in.”
The CMU cross country team ran right 
into a PAC title with John Wessels, Mike 
Short, and Kevin Brewer leading the way. 
CMU and Pitt hosted Solutions to the The 
Nuclear Arms Race. The convocation was 
part of a larger national organization, the 
United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War.
The AB Air Band Contest was a great 
success with the “Rolling Stones” — John 
Zoll, John Fetkovich, Alan Ferrenberg, Dan 
Slavin, and Oren Eisner taking first place. 
And oh yeah, Dossier, came out of 
hibernation.
“Damn the students, full speed ahead!” 
said the headline. Yes, CMU and IBM 
decided to make a marriage of it. President 
Cyert signed an agreement with IBM to 
develop a personal computing plan. Cyert’s 
hope was to supply every student with 
his/her/its own computer. In the meantime 
IBM will develop what it can with the CMU 
staff in the Information Technology Center, 
you know, the ITC . . . that rusty-looking 
structure they’re erecting next to Warner 
Hall.
Anyway, October was a good month for 
protesting. There was a protest outside of 
the IBM press conference (that’s where the 
“goofball” remark came from). Then on 
October 29 something happened that I 
thought I’d never see at CMU.
“Nate,” I said (because that’s his name), 
“if you get the people at this school to pro­
test against a tuition hike, then you must be 
Jesus Christ.”
Well, a 19% increase certainly works mira­
cles (unless Nate does). About 500 students 
appeared on the steps of Warner Hall, with 
signs and chants and concerns about their 
educational futures. Some threw cookies, 
but it was relatively peaceful. Most of the 
Pittsburgh media showed up too (Hi mom, 
send $1200).
Last October 29 at 4:30 pm an incredible thing happened — about 500 CMU students 
decided to protest a 19% tuition increase. Good Show.
Tuition Protest
Jim Morrison (30) and Kich LhLucente(t>3) lead the way tor running back Joe Vasalani (44) as he takes the hand off from QB Bill Kiselick 
(13) en route to another touchdown drive in CMU’s 49-7 win.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—May 3, 1983
Nine months of Tartan coverage
DECEMBER
Only one issue to this month before finals 
and Winter Break. The CMU campus 
mourned the death of a fellow student, Val­
erie Brandt. A senior majoring in profes­
sional and creative writing, Brandt had 
suffered a massive cerebral hemorrhage. She 
was 21.
The Student Senate donated a book to the 
library and a charity donation in her 
memory.
WRCT held its annual Christmas Special
with Brad Walter reciting ‘Twas the Night 
Before Christmas.
The Tartan held elections for editorial 
position for 1983-84, and then we went 
home for break, don’t you remember?
JANUARY
We came back.
After one issue, I passed the position (scep- 
tor, crown and all) of editor-in-chiefship to 
Monica J and her bunch of newly elected 
cronies. The paper ain’t been bad, but
On Sale
CMU’s literary magazine, featuring original student poetry, fiction, 
and artwork. Available at the Bookstore and Skibo Info Desk. Price 
$1.00.
Funded bx Student Senate
nobody listens to me anymore. So I just 
typeset and keep my mouth shut.
The Carnival theme was chosen to be 
“Adventure.” But the real adventure was in 
investigating ATO’s suspension.
Alpha Tau Omega was officially sus­
pended for one year. The restriction resulted 
from a series of events including an injury to 
a student by apples thrown from a truck, the 
theft of a tree from Schenley Park, and pub­
lic nudity. The case is to be reviewed again 
in May.
Pro-lifers attended a Washington Rally, 
and Blotto came to Skibo. On to . . .
FEBRUARY
Other than my birthday, not much excit­
ing happened. (Look, gimme a break it’s 5 
am).
“The quality of teaching at CMU may 
soon see an imporvement,” prophesied the 
February 1 Tartan. A Teaching Center was 
institiuted by the administration (finally, a 
good idea) to aid professors in improving 
their teaching skills. Dr. Edwin Fenton was 
named head of the Center.
University-wide core courses were consi­
dered, (so much for good ideas) while The 
Tartan reported the Nuclear Science and 
Engineering graduate program as being on 
its way out as a degree granting department 
for CIT.
A charismatic 
prayer 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information; 
0W0NgHbLu
Are we still in February? Are you stii 
reading this?
Valentine’s Day brought some interesting 
.classifieds. There was the “Kiss M*A*S*H 
goodbye” party, and food service announced 
its rate increaes (so what else is new?). Tony 
Martin was caught shoveling snow (worka 
holic, but a nice smile).
At last good sports news! The Tai 
hockey team took first place in the Southern! 
Division of the West Penn Intercollegiate] 
Hockey League.
MARCH
Finally.
We’re almost done.
R.U.R. was performed by the 
drama department in the Kresge T 
An emergency medical service was fori 
by students on campus.
Hey, look at this! The CMU Ta 
swimmers finished third in the PAC sv 
ming championships. Gina Illig qualii 
for nationals (part fish).
The Hockey team (part penguin) dide 
better. They took the WPIHL champs 
ships for the year with a record setting 17j 
season.
CMU Provost Richard Van Hoi 
announced he will be vacating his positiij 
to serve as chancellor of the University j 
Houston’s Central Campus. (I wonder if » 
U of H is into computing?)
Dossier made another appearance, 
Greek sing was held at the Syria Mos 
ZBT (you remember, they’re the ones wij 
give real authentic parties) took first placel 
the fraternity competion with a robustvtf 
sion of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Pirates of™ 
zance. Delta Delta Delta took first 
sororities for Starting Here, Starting N°' 
Pi Lam won for “mixed.”
Spring Break!
SUMMER IS HERE!! 
WHAT ABOUT YOU??
If you will be here over the summer, 
you can earn extra CASH by j 
participating in psych oiogy 
experiments.
Call Barbara at 621-6359 or stop by 
334B, Baker Hall.
The “Rolling Stones” — (1 tor) John Zoll, John Fetkovich, Alan Ferrenberg, Dan Savin, and Oren Eisner— won first place in the 
AB Air Band Compeition, held last November.

---------------------------------------------------

May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 7
’lay it again, Alice
The glow of this machine is getting to me, 
,n actually using exclamation points.
APRIL
On the first day of April (some call fools 
lay) another staph came in to give us regu­
ars a rest. Do you believe that?
Some people actually picked up the 
Utrat and believed stories like “ATO to be 
xecuted May 12,” and “Registrar makes 
;00f: GSIA secedes from CMU.” The trick is 
j make the April Fool’s edition as similar to 
rhe Tartan as possible. (It’s the only thing 
hat gets us through Spring.)
Other April stories: members of the tui- 
on committee responded to questions 
bout the university budget and the pro- 
osed tuition increase; the CMU Investment 
lub (look for the ones with the brief cases 
nd money clips) made outstanding returns 
n its investments; and an unpopular deci- 
ion was made to fire Coach Dave Maloney. 
Still reading, huh? You’ve got more con- 
entration than me.
Also in April, the CMU New Play Festi- 
i\ got underway along with the Mikado 
nd Tony winning Edward Gorey’s set and 
Ktume designs.
/¦John Crecine, dean of H&SS, was named 
nior vice president for academic affairs, 
id Angel Jordan, dean of CIT, was named ^
provost effective July 1. (Who replaces 
them?)
Ron Reagan spoke to the Conference on 
the Dislocated Worker at the Pittsburgh Hil­
ton Hotel, 4000 people showed up to protest 
his policies. (Sounds like CMU, doesn’t it?
MAY
Well, what do you think I’m going to 
write? READ YOUR TARTAN, geez.
Oh yeah, have a good summer.
If your graduating, have a nice life . . . 
what I mean is ... at least you don’t have to 
buy a personal computer . . . uhhmm, or 
worry about 19% more ... or being sus­
pended from Greek activities. Don’t worry, 
you can come back and visit us at homecom­
ing, okay? . . . how about carnival? Well, 
what I really mean is. . .TAKE ME WITH 
YOU!
Please
Notice
Dear Dean Midani and All Concerned,200 plus students have requested that
Phil Harris Remain
on the faculty of CFA
~,/¦ WoRTh CoNsidERATioN
Refer to the letter to Dean Midani 
in the Letter Section.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—May 3, 1983
GSIA graduate wins entrepreneurial award
Creating a specially-designed training 
program for the banking industry merits the 
“Entrepreneur of the Year” award for Mark 
Patterson, a second-year student at the Grad­
uate School of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA) at CMU.
The “Entrepreneur of the Year” award is 
given annually to a member of GSLA’s gra­
duating class who demonstrates leadership 
and managerial skills needed fora successful
entrepreneurial career. Jack Thome, who 
teaches entrepreneurship courses at GSIA, 
initiated the award in 1977 with the sponsor­
ship of the Smaller Manufacturer’s Council. 
Frank Fairbanks, president of the Smaller 
Manufacturer’s Council, gave the $200 prize 
to Patterson at an April 25 luncheon.
Patterson’s business is called “Mind- 
Bank,” and he says the company’s goal is to 
start major computer-based systems to train
people tor jobs in industry. Initially, Patter­
son intends to concentrate on the banking 
industry, and Mellon Bank already is a 
client. “MindBank” will create 25 computer 
programs for banking institutions, such as 
teller training, credit analysis and customer 
relations.
“It is a collaborative effort,” Patterson 
says. “We’ll match the banking expertise of 
major banks with our expertise in
computer-based education. We chose tofi^ 
focus the business on the banking industn 
because banking is being revolutionized 
new technology and the regulatory chanj 
that are occurring.”
After graduation Patterson plans to s 
in Pittsburgh to build his business.
Unaa--8r n8C 5m&r tn'r& 3-8&m S-t 8&&Cm
says
continued from page 4
SAE — Early in November, the brothers 
raised about $1500 to send some students of 
Gladstone Middle School, located in a low 
income section, to summer camp. The 
funds were raised by canvassing with the 
children and from pledges for a dance 
marathon.
Sigma Nu — December 4 brothers enter­
tained underprivileged children. They 
showed them a robot from Robotics, took 
the kids to a gym to play volleyball and 
basketball and had a luncheon for the 
children.
ZBT — Some brothers donated blood last 
February.
Theta Xi — Along with KAT, the frater­
nity sponsored Pole-Sit ’83, raising about 
$5000 for M.S.
Panhel — Sponsored a “Homecoming 
Balloon Project” and raised $285 for the 
Oakland Women’s Center. The winning 
balloon went to Camden, N.C.
Chi O - The sisters went Christmas carol­
ing last semester and worked on the “Charit­
able Chairs” philanthropy project with 
Delta Upsilon.
DDD — During Halloween, Tri-Delts
sent Candy-Grams for their $200 Scholar­
ship Fund, for which any woman can 
apply. They raised $300 for the fund.
DG — November 7-12, DGs sponsored a 
campus-wide “Beautiful Eyes Contest.” 
Each penny was worth a vote, and Garfield 
came out the winner. Proceeds went to the 
aid of the blind. In March, sisters made
“Bunny Baskets” for blind school children.
KAT — Thetas carved pumpkins for the 
Salvation Army last Halloween, and held a 
Carnation Sale during Valentine’s Day for 
ihe Institute of Logipedics. They donated 
cans of food to a food bank, and in April 
sponsored a Pole-Sit with Theta Xi for mul­
tiple sclerosis.
“Within five years, we plan to be 
number one supplier of computer-b; 
training for the banking industry,” he 
“I’m projecting annual gross sales of 
million by 1988. This business was initiatec 
by my personal interest in- the brain 
memory. Our computer-based approad 
can enhance learning gready. Eventually 
want ‘MindBank’ to be a world leader 
brain and learning research.”
A graduate of Brigham Young Univer 
sity, Patterson worked for several years 
sales representative for Motivational C® 
cepts, Inc., a company owned by his father
D&t-k'8f v&kvE--Rr 'r hanf'nt'r3
Copyright case settled out of court
(CPS) - In what could be a precedent for 
other colleges and universities trying to keep 
students and faculty members from photoc­
opying textbooks instead of buying them, 
New York University has setded out of court 
with nine major textbook publishers in a 
copyright infringement case.
In return for getting the publishers to 
drop a lawsuit filed last December, NYU 
agreed to adopt “specific policies pertaining 
to the photocopying of copyrighted works,” 
says an NYU spokesperson. NYU’s guide­
lines allow limited reproduction of book 
chapters, articles, short stories and poems for 
instructors to use in class, says Carol Risher
of the Association of American Publishers 
(AAP), the publishers’ group that sued 
NYU. Instructors can make copies of brief 
articles for students, she adds, if it’s done 
only one time for one course, and if there’s 
not enough time for the instructor to get 
prior permission from the publisher.
The AAP had claimed that NYU, ten of 
its faculty members and a campus copying 
center were reproducing “virtual antholo­
gies” from copyrighted works. Students 
would use the materials in lieu of buying 
textbooks. NYU agreed to setde out of court 
because “the university and individual 
defendants are troubled that they may have
infringed on the copyrights of one or ma 
publishers,” the spokesperson says. Ho» 
ever, the Unique Copy Center, also naru 
in the lawsuit, “will remain defendants.'
The new NYU guidelines are a “real on 
sided interpretation” of the copyright law 
says Paul Orfalea, president of the Kink 
Graphics nationwide campus copvu 
chain and a spokesman for the Nation 
Association of Quick Printers (NAQP).Tl 
NAQP is contributing money to the Ui 
que Copy Center’s defense, he says, asap 
of group members’ efforts “to gamer o 
forces to reassure the professors and studei 
around the country of their rights.
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
GETTING INVOLVED WITH
HOMECOMING ?
xoor
SARC will hold a 
Homecoming Meeting 
Thursday, May 5 at 4:30 p.m 
Warner Hall, 5th floor
s5
DONT MISS THIS CHANCE

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Senior takes a look back and ahead
p-rv rvoC&8vr &3ha-m n Za-w&Nv-Nlnv&Z nvv'voC&
¡y JOHN P. MORAN *
pgfiol for the Tartan
Another school year draws to a close and 
nother class of young, ambitious, intelli- 
,ent people prepare themselves for what lies 
Jiead. It seems like every year a graduating 
enior or two takes a few moments to reflect 
,ack on his or her undergraduate days here 
Pittsburgh by writing a piece to the Tar- 
an. It is rather unusual that I find myself 
ioing the same since I guess I’ve always felt 
[hat I would not seriously contemplate the 
,vents of my past four years at CMU. Maybe 
¡his thought was due in large part to the fact 
[hat many of us as underclassmen develop a 
¿rise of bitterness and feeling of distrust 
oward our program and the administra- 
jon, due probably to reasons which are not 
ustified, but which are simply excuses for 
jur own problems and shortcomings.
At one time or another all of us became
unhappy with our department stipulations 
or administrative policies, but I think that a 
person who can remain bitter towards the 
whole memory of CMU just because that 
person at one time felt slighted is awfully 
weak and afraid to openly embrace a chal­
lenge. Ask yourself how many incidents of 
disagreement in the future you will encoun­
ter concerning your working position, your 
family life, and even in your relationships 
with friends and acquaintances. If you have 
a dispute in these cases will you only 
remember the heated words and bad 
feelings?
I guess that what I’m trying to say is that 
for the large majority of us here we don’t 
dislike our stay at this university but we 
typically like to condemn it. But I also 
believe this love-to-hate attitude is not just 
confined to our campus. Never admitting 
liking a learning environment is a character-
:iscal year ends
Investment Club does well
y LEE SHEPARDartan Staffivriter
The CMU Investment Club recently 
nded its fiscal year on May 1. As a new 
tudent organization, it has grown tremend- 
usly in the past year under the leadership of 
Vayne Cutler and Dave Gustin. Last year 
club started out with a generous dona- 
IQn of $5000 from President Richard Cyert 
ut had only a handful of members. This 
^r, with new leadership the club grew to 
ppioximately 60 members, one of the 
lrger student organizations on campus, 
'he purpose of the club is to learn about 
Westing: stocks, bonds, mutual funds, 
Ptons, commodities, and other forms of 
Vestments.
The philosophy of the club is learning by 
°ing. The club, through investments and 
lndraising, has managed to turn $5900 on 
ePtember 1, 1982, into $8308, the portfo-
0 s value on April 18. The net asset value, 
way public mutual funds are valued, has 
rown from $10 to $11.46 while the number 
Shares has increased from 591 to 725. This 
¦Ptesents an annual return on investments 
about 21%, much greater than most 
'°ney market funds.
The club is divided into several different 
visions, each run by an individual vice- 
lesident. These include Research, Com­
ing, Donations, Annual Report, and 
Veral other administrative divisions. 
kr°uPs have also formed to research differ*
11 tyjies of investments: Stocks, Bonds, 
Ulual Funds and Commodities. In addi-
istic of many students at other colleges and 
universities also. I can’t explain why people 
feel they must outwardly show disdain for 
their social and learning experiences. They 
just do.
To me the most important lesson a col­
lege has to offer can’t be understood in a 
classroom; it is learned through intercourse 
with people of all attitudes, oudooks, and 
cultures; it is a lesson in human behavior 
that can only be expressed in an atmosphere 
where people feel uninhibited to just be 
themselves. I think college is the best atmos­
phere for this.
Camegie-Mellon University definitely 
has something to offer a person, even if he 
has spent a large sum of money for an educa­
tion that has not enabled him to find 
employment as yet. I want to remember my 
"school days with the enthusiasm that will 
forever keep me young at heart and eager to 
leam new things, while taking on all the 
challenges life has to offer. I want to 
remember my days here as a time of youthful 
innocence with great expectations for the 
future, unburdened by the disillusionment 
and pessimism of the times. I want to 
remember all the pleasant moments I have 
spent at CMU thinking about what is ahead
after this very short training period. I know I 
shall never forget all the good times I have 
had here-and yeah, in one way or another 
we’ve all had a good time here-admit it.
You know, I never thought I’d miss 
CMU. I can’t say why I thought this. Maybe 
it’s because the school lacks many things to 
me. But I would not be fair with myself as 
would anyone else if I were to dwell on the 
shortcomings of CMU. I hope that every 
graduating senior this year and for many 
years to come will emphasize the good 
points of attending CMU and be thankful 
that he or she had the opportunity to expe­
rience them.
Above all I will remember college not 
solely as a physical, practical, learning 
period, but as a spirit of the mind which will 
give me much satisfaction in the years to 
come.
John Moran is a senior graduating with a
B.S. in chemistry and will pursue his Ph.D. 
at the University of Houston with a teach­
ing assistantship next fall. His intramural 
basketball team, “World B. Free,” has 
remained a known menace in the minors for 
the past two years, and will continue chug­
ging in his honor. His dear friend, Johnny 
Walker, will remain a constant inspiration. 
—Feat. Ed.
Recycle & conserve
photo by Steve Winawer
’hillip B. Anderson, president of the Institute ot Technology and Society, discusses the need 
Dr recycling.
tion to this, many outside speakers have 
come in and talked about their particular 
fields. These speakers have included Robert 
Pearlman, Senior Vice-President of Value 
Line; two members of the Mellon Bank 
Trust Department; Richard Galliot, Senior 
Economist at Federated Research; President 
Richard Cyert; and Katherine Schipper.
In the future, the club intends to leam in 
more detail about the various forms of 
investments. The club encourages new 
students who know nothing about invest­
ing to join: it is the club’s purpose to educate 
as many people as possible. The club plans 
to provide “training manuals” for new 
members, as AIESEC currently does. The 
club also plans to publish an annual report 
this summer which will provide an in-depth 
description of the club’s activities.
One important project in the works is to 
provide a yearly scholarship to a high school 
senior and CMU undergraduate who com­
plete an advanced research project in a 
field of investment. Currently, scholarships 
of $500 or $1000 are being planned. This is 
contingent on the investing and fundraising 
success of the club.
Sarah Slosser, Vice President of Dona­
tions, estimates that the club will be able to 
increase its assets to $20-25,000 by the end of 
next year. This is dependent on the success 
of a recent fundraising drive. Three thou­
sand alumni from AMS and the department 
of economics were contacted through the 
mail and are presently being recontacted in a 
series of phone-a-thons.
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
It’s 1983. The economy is finally dragging 
itself out of a deep, dark pit. Our environ­
ment, on the other hand, is still ignored to 
the point of being taken for granted.
The Institute of Technology and Society 
has established a recycling project site at 51 
29th Street, downtown, funded by the Clean 
City Committee, Inc. of Pittsburgh.
Phillip B. Anderson, the organization’s 
president and a student in Pitt’s Master’s 
Program of Energy Resources, teamed up 
with Dan Micher, Vince Schiavon, and 
Keith Heintzleman, CMU senior mechani­
cal engineers, to slice the cost of recycling 
machines to maximize the resource utiliza­
tion venture.
As part of their design project, the three 
engineers designed and built a piece of 
equipment which will both flatten cans and 
separate steel from aluminum; previously, 
two separate devices were the standard, at a 
cost of 3-5,000 dollars each. “I don’t know if 
it’s sophisticated enough to get patented, 
but I think we could if it’s modified,” says
Anderson.
The Institute, committed to optimal 
resource utilization and energy conserva­
tion, has based its theory on Adam Smith’s 
maxim, “A multitude of menials brings 
ruin.” Anderson is conducting this project 
as a scientific study “to investigate the feasi­
bility of industrial capital formation via 
maximum resource optimization, by testing 
the theory against pragmatic market condi­
tions.” This capital would eventually defray 
negative environmental costs throughout 
the economy, enabling industry to tend to its 
own modernization and reinvestment. As 
Anderson points, "If an industry doesn’t 
conserve its resources, it’ll go broke.”
The Institute, which was responsible for 
the placement of can receptacles throughout 
the CMU campus, will be tending to 50 
metropolitan urban areas, involving 200 
institutions providing 400 pounds per week 
of recyclable metals. At the end of 6 months, 
the projects will be evaluated, and, as Ander­
son hopes, will prove a successful applica­
tion of “putting education and theory to 
work.”
Investment Club net asset value graph
Time (in months)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—May 3, 1983
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-1LOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
ALL 
Y0buLL
p-8 u ,ot— u (&Cu 1LN) ,lo8uu K8u 1LNH 
zn' HNWWW) bzss
NO APPOINTMENTS PMiz5D xFi" zF4sM
ppcaaoH haaouttob
0g) Fv.--C z't2tv Fvt-. 'lv vvt2t' St-3 
snRan8C iI/ sSS'2&
j"5GMFM,• Bn''F,F
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 am-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa­
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
F4,5"MF,iy5z ,s FUs",isM 
iMB
V n 8-8Nht-S'v -tfn8'6nv'-8
M-.uuu
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
snRan8CRoom 212Parkvate Plaza Buildings 3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. MeyfJ™| Pittsburgh. PA I52I3 (4I2) 683-3730
Q-.8v-.8
PJ-3&8 r W0ar'S8.'k'Xv1t&av , (j'i«-_UL 12th Floor—Allegheny Tower8&n'k8 Pittsburgh. jF 15222z&tw'2&re A412O 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hous and instructions. Confidential counseling nwn'anEa&
Cartoon contest opens
The eighth annual contest for cartoons in 
college publications will be conducted by 
the National Council of College Publica­
tions Advisers.
There are two categories to be judged: 
Editorial Cartoon and Cartoon Strip. A stu­
dent may submit no more than three car­
toons in each of the divisions. There is no 
entry fee.
Cartoons must have appeared in college 
publications since July 1, 1982.
Entries should be submitted on sheets of 
paper or light cardboard no larger than 
standard letter size. Identification should be 
clear as to artist, publication, date cartoon 
appeared, college, and address and phone of 
artist.
A panel of professional cartoonists will 
judge the cartoons. First, second and third 
places will be named in each of the tWo 
divisions, with possibile honorable 
mentions.
Winners will be announced at the
Ticketsavailable
By DOUG GKAUEL
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU offers a service that most people 
probably do not know about. Through the 
CMU Staff Council, the Pittsburgh 
Employee’s Activities Association (PEAAj 
offers discount rates on many area entertain­
ment and travel purchases. Discounts are 
available through Cindy Rupert, at 578- 
2013 on amusement park tickets and travel 
packages, among other items. This is a ser­
vice that has been available to the CMU 
community in the past, but has not been 
widely advertised. fcMU students, faculty, 
and staff are eligible to receive the discounts, 
which range from single coupons to group 
specials on some items.
national convention of the Associated Co||e. 
eiate Press and NCCPA in Chicaeo a 
October 1983.
Deadline for submitting entries is May 15 
1983. Send entries to Richard C. Lytle' 
Chairman, NCCPA Awards Committee 
Texas Tech University, Box 4080, 
buock, TX 79409.Volunteer 
for forest 
service jobsl
WASHINGTON-If you can sacrifJ 
salary for a chance to gain valuable woj 
experience this summer, the U.S. Depart! 
ment of Agriculture’s Forest Service hasjl 
program just for you.
It’s called the Volunteers in the Natio 
Forests and the program is gaining popular! 
ity among college students who are lookiu 
for meaningful ways to spend 
summers.
“Last year alone, more than 42,000 volu 
teers contributed work to the Forest Ser 
valued at $15 million,” said Stan Gaylonl 
the Forest Service’s national volunteer co 
dinator. “In return, we gave them a < 
to gain valuable experience and to exp 
their horizons. We also provided insur 
coverage and often reimbursed them 
incidental expenses.”
Gaylord explained that the Forest 1 
makes every effort to place volunteers inju 
that are both interesting and related to t 
volunteers’ interests or career goals.
Some of the more traditional natu 
resource professions associated with 
Forest Service, such as timber, wildlife, < 
recreation management, are notorious I 
the difficulties they pose for students whj 
continued on pagtllGet that
Great“X” 
Look,
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
• ••
Young people in the local area who are 
planning to apply soon for their first 
summer job and who do not have a Social 
Security Number should remember to apply 
for a number at least 2 weeks before they will 
need it, a Social Security spokesperson said 
recendy.
Most employers will not accept applica­
tions from people who do not have a Social 
Security Number, so it is a good idea to get a 
number before looking for a job, the repre­
sentative said.
To get a Social Security Number, a person 
must provide proof of date of birth, identity, 
and U. S. citizenship or immigrant status. 
People 18 or over must apply in person.
The best proof of date erf birth and citizen­
ship is a public or hospital birth record 
recorded before age 5 or a religious record of
birth or baptism recorded before age 5. For­
eign bom applicants should provide their 
immigration or naturalization documents 
as well.
Identity can be established by such records 
as driver’s license, State identity card, voter’s 
registration, school record, school ID, report 
card, marriage record, work badge or build­
ing pass, labor or fraternal organization 
record, draft card or military ID, U. S. pass­
port, newspaper birth announcement, 
adoption record, court order for change of 
name, church membership or confirmation 
record, welfare case record, medical or hospi­
tal record, vaccination certificate, insurance 
policy, day care or nursery school record, 
Boy or Girl Scout membership, or any other 
document showing identifying date such as 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 11
initiates announced
, JACKIE ISAACS
^ for the Tartan ''
ffhe 1982-83 Mortar Board would like to 
L^ratulate their new initiates.
The Mortar Board Society is a national 
nior honorary which recognizes individu- 
for their distinguished ability and 
hievement in scholarship, leadership and 
Lice. New members are selected each year 
lom all colleges within the University, 
i The 1983-84 members include:
; AMS—Dave Hess, Ken Homza, Rhonda 
jlapstone, Paul Janaskie, Marianne 
agister,
CFA—Beth Bangor, Susan Dermer, Mark 
Schwartz,
CTT—Alex Kavoulakis, Mark Lorence, 
Karey Lynch, Mark Mason, Don Webber, 
Dave Vensel,
H&SS—Frank DiCesare, Bill McSteen,
MCS—Bob Aarhus, Glenn Benson, Matt 
Brenneman, Jan Cook, Susan Moskovitz, 
Terry Ricci.
Elected officers include President Mark 
Mason, Vice President Mark Lorence, 
Treasurer Terry Ricci, and Secretary Bob 
Aarhus.
igh school art shown
The pre-college Saturday art program at 
iU will hold an awards ceremony and 
[wlti-media show of students’ work at 9 
i., Saturday, May 7 in Kresge Theater in 
College of Fine Arts on campus.
! Janice Hart, program director, will pres- 
t scholarships to the program. A reception 
exhibition will follow, 
j The exhibition in the Ellis and Hall gal- 
ries on the third floor of the College of 
Arts Building represents the work of
L -ovC--tr
1 from page 10
it to gain experience in them. The 
Jlunteer program helps eliminate these 
ficulties.
(There are Forest Service offices in 44 
ptes, the Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico, 
sign up as a volunteer, contact one of 
; offices listed in the phone book under 
J.S. Government, Department of Agricul- 
e,” or write: Volunteers, Forest Service- 
SDA, Box 37483, Washington, D.C. 20013. 
pe only qualifications needed by volun- 
are good health and a willingness to 
a.
e numbered
nued from page 10
[lysical description, photograph, or
ituie.
(Applications for a Social Security 
fiber can be obtained at any Social 
-irity Office. The people there will be 
ad to answer any questions about Social 
urity. The telephone number of the near- 
t Social Security Office is 281-0322.
INTELLECTUAL
SOFTWARE
PRESENTS
Score High on the
by Jonathan D. Kantrowitz, 
J. D., Harvard Law School
Comprehensive com­
puter-assisted instruction, fea­
turing automatic timing, scoring, 
branching, extensive analysis 
and documentation.
Apple, IBM PC disks:
$195.00
Available exclusively from:
Queue, Inc. 
5 Chapel Hill Drive 
Fairfield, CT 06432
1-800-232-2224 or 
(203) 335-0908
150 high school students from Western Pen­
nsylvania. It will continue from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m., Monday to Saturday, through May 14.
The exhibition and multi-media show 
are open to the public free of charge.
!'tRhnvt'2R l-o8C&C
photo by Rich Ives
This goofball puppy is barred from taking his finals for throwing doggie treats at Warner Hall.
Government victim of campus idealists
continued from page 3
life. Why should Jeane Kirkpatrick be so 
controversial at such liberal bastions as the 
University of California at Berkeley, where 
on Feb. 15 she was forced from a lecture 
platform and made to cancel an address 
scheduled for the next day while campus 
administrators hunkered under their desks? 
Has she been creating turmoil and angst at 
the United Nations?
No, strangely enough while she has been 
there the United Nations has been compara­
tively quiescent--in fact, more so than when
the fabulous Andy Young was our ambass- 
dor, and he was reputed to be the most 
honeyed diplomat ever sent to soothe the 
Third World.
Kirkpatrick is being hounded for admin­
istration policy in Central America. Like 
their heroes in the Sandinista government 
and the Salvadoran revolution, our campus 
radicals flee from normal democratic chan­
nels abuse the majority and turn to violence. 
Can nothing be done so the majority of 
students might be free to bear the likes of 
Kirkpatrick?
Recendy, organizations representing the 
nation’s college presidents and faculty 
members issued a plea for tolerance. They 
could do more. I suggest they lighten their 
patrols along fraternity row and station a 
few cops in their lecture halls. Such a plan 
was followed at Kansas State University two 
weeks ago. Four pests were arrested, and 
freedom reigned.
R. Emmett Tyrrell Jr. is the editor o/The 
American Spectator. This article was 
reprinted from The Washington Post
THIS SUMMERX pF!5 IT EUROPE.
AMSTERDAM
gvvest
The lowest scheduled fare to 
picturesque Amsterdam, the gateway 
to Europe. $499 round-trip fare good on 
departures through June 9 and tickets 
must be purchased by May 26, 1983. 
(The fare increases to $609 round-trip 
June 10.)
' Sonic restrictions apply. Low cost one-way fares 
also available.
IRELAND *499*
ROUND-TRIP
Also the lowest scheduled fare 
to Ireland; good on departures through 
June 14 and tickets must be purchased 
by May 24, 1983. (The fare increases 
to $529 round-trip June IS, 1983.)
¡- Transamenca
Airlines
FAR AWAY PLACES -r« DOWN TO EARTH FARES
Call your travel agent or (8(X)) 22~’-2888. Fares subject to change.
¿1

---------------------------------------------------

AB Lectures and Special Events 
with AB Films presents
8888toN'to«oNm~u~n-rrrm*in---------1------------------------.-¦ . - -
Craig Karges, mentalist
and
Airplane
Wednesday, May 4 
8 p.m., on the cut
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Shift to group projects results in "Intersect 5"
For Pythons, life is tasteless, but funny
ty JOHN CANTINE
Man Associate Entertainment Editor
Since the beginning of recorded history, 
*nd probably before that, man has attemp- 
to discover the meaning of life. Haven’t 
ou ever wondered why we were all put on 
this planet?
Faced with the question, tour­
ist Eric Idle draws a deep breath, 
thinks for a moment, and replies 
No.” But apparently Idle and his fellow 
nmates at the Monty Python Mental Hospi- 
John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Gil- 
3111, and Graham Chapman -- have given 
le matter much thought. The result is a 
lew Monty Python movie, The Meaning of 
ife.
It is good to see the Python group back 
°gether again. Except for John Cleese’s 
Really short-lived series, “Fawlty Tow- 
rs> the solo work of various members never 
uite reached the level of the group work. 
lfe, however, is nearly as funny as some of 
le best episodes of their old “Flying Circus” 
fries.
The Meaning of Life basically takes the 
udience through the various stages of life, 
°ni birth to death, with of course many 
S trips and tangents in between. The 
ythons seem to have a knack for bringing 
le most improbable events to pass. Some of 
le gems include a Zulu war in Glasgow, 
Ve organ donors, and a show-and-tell sex 
U( ation course for ten-year-olds. In an ele- 
lnt restaurant, a Well-dressed man sits at 
Piano bar and sings about his penis, and 
eves polite applause. It is just this sort of
incongruity that leaves the audience in 
stitches.
As the last example shows, this movie 
goes much farther than any of their previous 
work in exceeding the bounds of good taste. 
In doing so, they manage to make a stinging 
commentary on such subjects on sex, health 
care, the military, education, sports, sex, 
high finance, sex, religion, war, and of 
course sex. The group has a good eye for 
man’s pretentious fictions about himself, 
and can shock people into seeing themselves 
for what they are, and laughing about it.
Once in a while they go too far. A warn­
ing: one scene in this movie contains a few 
hundred gallons of the most realistic vomit 
ever to hit the big screen. Take your cue 
from the fish: when they leave, look out 
Most people, myself included, could not 
help laughing hysterically when Mr. Creo­
sote vomited on the washer woman, but I 
kept thinking of Groucho Marx’s line from 
Cocoanuts: “I have to stay heie, but why 
don’t the rest of you wait in the lobby until 
this all blows over?”AB Dance trades dinner for harem
The winners of AB Dance’s Harem Con­
test were announced during Friday’s Love
Boat party.
The winners were Mike Haggerty, who 
brought 24 girls and Maiy Beth Csonka, 
who brought 15 guys.
Both Haggerty and Csonka win a dinner 
for two anywhere in Pittsburgh.
This scene aside, though, The Meaning people who weren’t paying attention. After 
of Life is one of the funniest films to come it all, though, I am left with one question: 
out this year. And don’t worry, the meaning Just what did the men in the tiger suit do 
of life is given at the end of the film for those with the officer’s leg?
New Play Festival successful; 
Yorkin Award given this year
On Wednesday, April 27, the CMU 
drama department gave close to $18,000 in 
prizes to 13 students.
Winners of the Bud Yorkin playwriting 
awards for their work in the recent New Play ,
Festival III were: Lisa L. Humbertson of 
Verona, PA, first place, $2,500; Gary I.
Glauber, Brooklyn, NY, second, $1,500; and 
Harold Norris, Dayton, OH, third, $1,000.
Three directing students, judged for their 
work throughout the past year, received the 
Bud Yorkin directing awards. They were:
Joseph Jude Banno, Roslyn Heights, VY, 
first, $2,500; James P. Birder, Green Bay,
WI, second, $1,500; and Jeffrey Peters, Pitts­
burgh, PA, third, $1,000.
Judging the playwriting competition 
were William Ball, CMU alumnus and artis 
tic director of the American Conservatory 
Theater in San Francisco; playwright John 
Guare; and Mel Gussow, drama critic of the 
New York Times. Directing awards were 
judged by CMU drama faculty, Elisabeth 
Orion, Yossi Yzraely and three students.
The awards, presented by visiting profes­
sor Yzraely, were established by Bud Yorkin, 
a CMU engineering alumnus and trustee, 
whose own awards include six Emmys for
such productions as “All in 'he Family,” 
“Maude,” “Sanford and Son” and “Good 
Times.”
Maureen Quigley of Skaneateles, NY, 
received the Norman Apell Award of $562. 
The award honors Apell, a drama student 
who died in action in Fiance in 1944. Robert 
Perdziola of Allison Park, PA, received 
$1,500 Elizabeth Schrader Kimberly Award 
for design from Soralie Goldfarb, president 
of CMU’s Pittsburgh Drama Clan. The 
award is named for Mrs. Kimberly, an asso­
ciate professor emerita and longtime volun­
teer at the university.
Mark Christopher Wendland of Park- 
ridge, IL, won the George Kimberly Award 
of $2,000 for set design. It was presented by 
electrical engineering alumnus Philip 
Chosky, who established it in honor of the 
late drama professor.
Mrs. Kimberly gave the West Coast 
Drama Clan Awards of $900 to: Wen Hae 
Ma, Beijing, China, for design; Margaret 
Eisenhauer, Nyack, NY, production; Lauia 
San Giacomo, Denville, NJ, acting; Charles 
Zito, Johnstown, PA, directing.
Mel Shapiro, head erf the drama depart­
ment, presided over the ceremonies.
[ohn Wooldridge senior industrial designer, works away on his group’s project for “Intersect 5.”
ByS. E. PETRIE
fartan Entertainment Editor
“Intersect 5,” the show featuring all CMU 
^ior design majors’ projects, will open 
^is Friday at the Mellon Institute Social 
Room at 6:30 p.m., hosted by the senior 
designers. Opening night will continue 
until 10 p.m.
The semester-long project, required of all 
design majors, is the final synthesis of what 
students have learned at Camegie- 
Mellon. “Intersect 5” is a rather new devel-
according to Amy Morton, one of the show’s 
coordinators.
Professionally-oriented, all the ideas serve 
as “systems” for various clients. “We’re try­
ing to satisfy the clients at the same time 
we’re trying to satisfy the requirements for 
the project,” said Lynn Sokol, promotion- 
reception committee member.
The various groups and their subjects are 
as follows: Mellon Institute Identity System: 
The administration of Mellon Institute has 
recognized the need for an updatedjgraphic
reinforce the existing Admissions program, 
the new program includes educational pos­
ters, tours and maps for the campus, and a 
slide show depicting student life.
Design Studio for the Information Age: 
This group is developing computer hard­
ware and software intended specifically for 
graphic and industrial designers. The sys­
tem will augment the cognitive design pro­
cess with hardware based on technological 
projections for the future, plus a software 
program to enhance the user’s creativity.
Personal Computer Workstation: In the 
near future personal computers will be an 
integral part of CMU. This project will 
explore not only the structural aspects of the 
workstation, but social interaction between 
computer users. Solutions include a group- 
oriented work environment, a portable com­
puter workstation, and integration of the 
computer into the dorm room.
Visual Research/Statistical Graphics: 
This project involves the research of the 
present methods used to portray statistical
information. Also, the cognitive and visual 
issues involved in creating an effective graph 
are explored, and standards for creating sta­
tistical graphics are proposed.
Funding for the projects came from 
clients, grants from corporations, and 
Carnegie-Mellon. Funds for the show were 
mostly donated by alumni and totaled 
approximately $6000.
Coordinators for the project are Bob 
Beggs, Jay Faulkner, and Amy Morton. Ava 
DeMarco is head of graphics committee; 
Ken Miller and Mike Byrne, display/secur­
ity committee; Nanette , Masasco, promo­
tional reception committee; Dean Stroker, 
budget committee; and Laurie Mizarhi, cor­
respondence committee.
The show will run until May 14, 9 — 5 
Monday through Friday; 1 — 5 on Saturday. 
“It was a good working experience,” said 
Morton. “It’s good to take a project from the 
beginning stages — nothing — and develop 
it all the way ...”
photos by Steve Winawer
opment in the senior project format, 
comprised of several student groups’ pro- 
ects rather than individual ones, as in the 
ast. The show also has a unifying theme; 
ach project relates to some specific aspect of 
Carnegie-Mellon.
Each group, with a membership of seven 
>r eight, is comprised of both industrial 
three-dimensional) and graphic (two- 
limensional) designers. The project ideas 
>vere mainly “arranged by the faculty,”
identity system. A new mark is designed to 
reflect strength, stability and leadership in 
technological developments. Additional 
materials are designed to unify the overall 
image of Mellon Institute.
Carnegie-Mellon Admissions Program: 
The admissions office is seeking new 
methods of increasing CMU’s visibility in 
high schools as well as creating a unified 
campus image to prospective applicants 
when visiting the university. Designed toAnother designer, Leonore Voltz, prepares her project for the show, which will open on 
Friday at 6:30.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—May 3, 1983
Anthony Petrosky, a Pittsburgh poet
FRIDAY, THE DAY MARIANA PENKO QUIT COOKING FOR HER HUSBAND 
July:
The cat stretches under the trees’ oppressive heat 
as she runs out of the house cursing her husband.
He pisses away the money.
The men in t-shirts playing cards on the porch 
stop talking and turn to watch.
“Busza Mariana,” one of them mutters, “hold your tongue.” 
but nothing suprises them.
The screen door slams 
and the day shatters.
Her flowered dress disappears in a blur.
The men light cigarettes and go back to talking politics 
while the boys kick a ball in the dusty street.
No one visits the old couple anymore,
and it has been a long time since they stood in the doorway
holding each other.
Credit: Jurgis Petraskas, Louisiana State University Press.
By ALICE ALFONSI
Tartan Contributing Editor
In a comer cubicle of the University of 
Pittsburgh’s Forbes Quadrangle, a tall lean 
34-year-old man with small features, gold 
wire-rimmed glasses and a brown mustache 
leans back in his chair and smiles.
Anthony Petrosky, an unassuming Pitts­
burgh poet and Associate Professor at Pitt, 
recently received the 1982 Walt Whitman 
Award for his book of poems Jurgis Petros- 
kas. The prize is awarded annually to the 
winner of an open competition among 
American poets who have not yet published 
their first books of poetry. Sponsored by the 
Academy of American Poets, the award was 
judged this year by Philip Levine.
Petrosky’s book, Jurgis Petraskas — 
named for his grandfather — centers on four 
generations of his Lithuanian-American 
family. Pittsburgh as well as the rural areas 
of Pennsylvania provide the backdrop for 
characters like the labor organizing Jurgis, 
the cursing screen door-slamming Mariana 
Penko, as well as the boys who prowl Lib­
erty Avenue with their shirts off.
Petrosky studied with John Logan at the 
State University of New York at Buffalo and 
is now teaching language development, as 
well as serving as consultant to the Superin­
tendent of the Pittsburgh Public Schools. 
He and his wife, Patricia, edit the Slow Loris 
Press — a small publishing house.
I welcomed the chance to ask this award- 
winning poet about his style, influences, 
and ideas which have produced such a uni­
que collection of poems.
Tartan: How long have you been 
writing?
Petrosky: I’ve been writing since I was a
freshman in high school. I had my first 
poem published in a Jesuit magazine 
when I was a sophomore in high school. 
Then I didn’t have anything published 
until I was a graduate student in college.
Tartan: What was your impetus for writ­
ing poetry?
Petrosky: That’s a difficult question. I 
began reading poetry before I began writ­
ing it ... I was trying to understand 
people and things going on in the world 
and myself. I had gone to a number of 
different places like psychology books, 
sociology books, philosophy. I liked poe­
try and philosophy the best — they 
seemed to offer the most.
Then I began writing poetry as a way 
of expressing my own understanding of 
the world. Slowly I discovered that you 
could make up things also, and the more 
I read, the more I saw that it was a lot like 
writing fiction except it was a little more 
constrained because of the form. But then 
I later found out that I didn’t even have to 
be constrained by the form — that I could 
write prose poems. Prose poems are the 
oldest poetic form in the world. They 
date back to China, and were originally 
drawings by Chinese artists.
Tartan: Who were your major influen­
ces? Do you find yourself patterning your 
poems after any other poets?
Petrosky: There are some people who 
have influenced me a great deal. I guess 
the first people who influenced me the 
most were people like Walt Whitman, 
William Carlos Williams. Then I went to 
James Wright — the person to which 
Jurgis is dedicated. Outside of James 
Wright, there is a group of modern poets 
who have influenced me. David Ignatow
was a big influence and Adrienne Rich 
from the very beginning influenced me in 
bpth her form, the language she uses and 
the direct way she talks about people and 
subjects.
Then there is a whole school of people 
called the objectivists. The one who I’m 
most directly influenced by is George 
Oppen. The objectivists are very interest­
ing, and I find one of their approaches 
very seductive. Oppen is probably the 
purist of the objectivists.
Tartan: What characterizes objectivism?
Petrosky: The idea is not to interject per­
sonal interpretations or judgments into 
the work. Just to use yourself to record 
what you see and the act of recording is a 
very subtle act of interpretation. I pick 
something to write about — a detail or 
part of the event — that you would not 
pick. What we pick reveals our interpre­
tation of it. I find that very attractive in 
poetry. I’m not a romantic — I don’t like 
lush interpretations. I like the poem to 
unfold the way I like a story to unfold and 
let the reader go ahead and do the 
interpretation.
Tartan: Are there any poets in Pittsburgh 
that have helped you?
Petrosky: Well, I’ve gotten a lot of help 
from a guy here at Pitt, Ed Ochester. He 
was one of the first people to read this 
manuscript and make some suggestions 
that had serious consequences. I made 
radical changes in the manuscript 
because of it. . . and Lynn Emmanuel, a 
good friend of mine who is also in the 
English department, also Pat Dobler and 
my wife, Patricia.
I think that that’s natural . . . it’s 
important to have readers that you can 
trust. The more varied they are, the better 
feedback you get, the better comments 
you get about your work.
Tartan: The kind of writing that you do 
is different from some popular poets who 
want more of the artist's hand in his 
work. Do you ever run into conflict?
Petrosky: I try not to get into arguments
— it’s a big world and there’s room for a 
lot of people. I certainly see myself allied 
with a community, and a strong part of 
that is my belief and committment to 
objectivists. I like that kind of writing. 
But then on the other hand I also like the 
kind of magical writing that a writer like 
Pablo Neruda does.
Tartan: The poem (<Friday, the Day 
Mariana Penko Quit Cooking for Her 
Husbandhow did you come to write 
that?
Petrosky: That was written about one 
of my neighbors, the name was changed 
to protect the guilty. She just struck me as 
a very interesting person — the way their 
life unfolded. They have this routine they 
engage each other with, and it involves 
some very incredible theatrics like run­
ning away from home and running up 
and down the street yelling at each other. 
What’s even more interesting is the way 
the neighbors understand what’s going 
on.
Ready for finals?
Free personal tutoring 
available.
For more information contact 
Amy Ciric.
Monday-Thursday 7-10 p.m. in 
PH 126 A.
I don’t like heavy-handed poetry. I Can 
read something where the author’s pres 
ence is incredibly strong either because of 
them continually interjecting themselves 
to make interpretations or judgments or 
else because the poems are about them
Instead they write about the things that 
they do, the dinners that they fix, the' 
fantasies that they have, the tennis shoes 
that they buy. I’m not interested in that! 
kind of poetry. I’m more interested 
poetry that tries to describe people other 
than the poet and events in the world 
through the poets eyes.
A lot of the poetry I see by people, older 
poets and younger poets, is ego-centered 
poetry — it’s about them, hardly any­
thing about the world or about thepeo 
pie in the neighborhood or catastrophic] 
events or incredibly joyful events in thw 
world.
Tartan: When you sat down to write, didl 
the poem come at once?
Petrosky: It was very hard to write. Thatl 
poem was originally six times as longasl 
it is. I wrote it out as a prose description,! 
but it took about a year and a half tol 
complete. j
Tartan: What made it so difficult? 
Petrosky: The hard part of that poem wasl 
to get the kind of off-handed languagl 
that I felt was necessary to capture thJ 
event of her running out, and the neighl 
bors being nonchalant about it. At fin 
the language was kind of stilted anil 
heavy handed, then it was too spare, theii 
it wras too much. j
Part of crafting a poem for me is H 
make it seem like it was tossed off ! 
picked that up from James Wright whB 
told me once when I was a graduate stufl 
dent that one of the most importanl 
things for a poet to do was to makefl 
poem seem like it was tossed off. Whathfl 
meant by that was to make the langua® 
seem so natural, so appropriate, so jufl 
right. For me,that language was idicH 
made. I like colloquial language. *!
It’s hard to do. You pick up some® 
those poems, especially the short one® 
like picking up some of James Wrigh® 
poems — you think they came so easi® 
and all at once, but in fact they took yea* 
to write. I,
Tartan: Why did you choose asanejm 
graph the quote from Thomas Bell’sOm 
of This Furnace: “All a man can besm 
of is what he gets here on earth. He gem 
here or he never gets it at all. . • •” I
Petrosky: I had read the book yearsa® 
and that section seemed to be very m® 
in line with what the other people in* 
book believed about life. It’s very fata® 
tic. I myself am very fatalistic — youg® 
here or you don’t get it at all. I
In a sense there’s a fatalism that’svfl 
characteristic of immigrant faffli® 
Even though a lot of them are very1® 
gious and believe in things like theaf® 
life, they still hold a set of beliefs that« 
very here and now. Either you make!® 
living now — you survive now — °r®
don’t. I think that’s directly connect«®
why they’re survivors. i
Pregnant?
And you didn't j 
mean to be?
K-t n St&& ht&f8n82m v&rv m 
2-8S'C&8v'na l&ahX 2naa i 
Birthright at 621-198®
Very Reasonable Summer Housing
9b1HbLb8b1b1b1b®
Rooms/Apts. 
Nicely furnished 
Maid service 
Parking 
Close to campus
Furnished Summer Housing
b1b1b1b1b1b1b1bÌb1
Excellent Weekly 
or Monthly 
rentals near campus. 
Very reasonable 
rates.
b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1b1bpB
682-7010682-7010

---------------------------------------------------

May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 15
\Oave: a biography not quite completed
¡ By GEOFFREY BECKER
fartan Contributing Éditor
To a lucky few, the name Dave is a famil­
iar term designating not any one individual, 
Lt an exciting band that surfaced intermit- 
I tently around CMU in the last few years to 
put on always interesting, if not 
excellent, performances of 
innovative music. The band is 
now in the process of dissolving 
ias the current members seek their fortunes 
I following graduation in May, but plans are 
[being made for a farewell concert, the time 
nd date of which will be announced in a 
lew days- Keep an eye and ear tuned for the 
ate and time; it’ll be well worth the effort, 
¡ any one who has seen or heard Dave will 
gladly tell you.
1 Most of the band are, or have been, CMU 
usic majors. Joe Bishkoff, a cello major, 
ares keyboard, synthesizer, and singing 
liores with Peter Aldens, who teaches at 
d®CMU. Aldens also plays some rhythm gui- 
ar. Bruce Burgenfeldt, formerly a voice 
»¦najor, now a EE, is the lead singer and 
iMruitarist. Dave Withrow, a percussion 
i,Bnajor, plays the drums, and I believe Dave 
oftvnapp, who plays bass for Dave, is a gradu­
ate of CMU, where he played the tuba. No 
atter if he didn’t graduate from CMU, he 
j Jlays a mean bass, and together these five 
(lusicians form a group that pops like high 
lension wires. Actually, a more apt analogy 
[vould compare Dave with a nuclear reactor: 
he power of the group comes from a com- 
bressed pulse of individual energies that is 
|trongest at the instant of decay.
If you felt a tug of annoying indefinite- 
triess about what or who Dave is in the 
preceding paragraph, well . . . tough, that’s 
line way of this band. It reflects their roots in 
he eclectic, performance oriented group, 
Irt Now, and is a part of the peculiar feel of 
|iuch of Dave’s music — a powerful for- 
thrust counterpointed by a backward, 
le pull, almost yearning — as if for a 
fiy long past when music was a powerful,
I force binding words, music, and 
into a cultural unity.
j There’s also a bit of anarchy in Dave’s 
husic, the anarchy and independence of a 
aveling musician living by and for his 
'Miusic, allegiance sworn to no one but the 
profession, and himself. “Out of Space, Out 
Time”, a tune written early in 1982, is 
ihaps the clearest example of inclinations 
[wards entropy and order operating at the 
ne time. The song is based on a poem by 
dgar Allen Poe, called “Dreamland”, and 
[part of a trio of tunes including also “Pn- 
|ners” and “Dance”, that mark one thre- 
fold of a band built on the idea that 
esholds are relative: they are as much 
[mething to aspire to as something to 
ate.
[As mentioned above, Dave derived from 
performance ensemble of Art Now. In 
summer of 1981 Art Now tried to make 
lr concept of performance pay through a 
les of costume balls called the Grand 
asque. The idea didn't quite work, and a 
1 from the musical side of Art Now, com- 
|sed of Joe Bishkoff, Peter Aldens, and 
lVe Knapp along with Guy Winchester,
Allegheny Women’s Center
•in out pjiirnt mrdiul dinii <>(forint’' abortion (ounsflirt« * free pregnant y tests * personal < ounseling * birth < ontrol servic es ' Kvnerologkdl tare
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both *ilt br oprn dailv lor pir)|n«Hv Irsl* and «oonsrltn*.
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 1520b
also from Art Now, and Dave Withrow, to 
form Dave in the fall of 1981.
From Dave’s first concert in December of 
1981, through the departure of Guy Win­
chester in May 1982, due to graduation and a 
desire to do theatre work in Holland with 
other former CMU students, from the depar­
ture of Mike Nigrin in October of 1982 due 
to a decision to double major in composi­
tion and bass, to the addition of Bruce Bur­
genfeldt, Dave was striving to develop their 
own sound, their own structures of musical 
expression.
Bruce Burgenfeldt joined Dave in the fall 
of 1982, to take over the lead singing job 
abdicated by Guy. Burgenfeldt then took 
over the guitar duties of Nigrin when he left 
the group. Mike’s departure signaled yet 
another need for Dave to redefine their 
sound objectives. Burgenfeldt has an excel­
lent voice that more than compensated, in 
my opinion, for Winchester’s singing abili­
ties, but even though Burgenfeldt plays a 
fine guitar, the chops, and perhaps even a 
bigger loss, the compositional abilities of 
Nigrin were irreplaceable.
During the regrouping effort, composi­
tional tasks fell back on the shoulders of 
Aldens, Bishkoff, and Knapp. Having 
reached a plateau of sorts with the triad of 
tunes “Dance”, “Prisoners”, and “Out of 
Space, Out of Time”, Dave set themselves to 
search for a new sound that would account 
for the void left by Nigrin, and take advan­
tage of Burgenfeldt’s strong singing abilities 
as well as his style of guitar playing.
“Their sound was a throb­
bing torrent of eclectic 
music something like separ­
ate currents of water rush­
ing into a funnel, creating 
a burst of directed pressure 
then diffusing once again 
into distinct streams.”
Ironically, or typically for Dave, just as 
Burgenfeldt became fully integrated into the 
band, they performed their last concert at a 
Halloween party in Squirrel Hill. No one 
knew then that it was the last show, and 
soon after, in early November, I interviewed 
them. Dave was beginning to feel enough 
confidence in their sound to discuss a major 
new project: writing an opera based on the 
African legend of The Palm Wine Drunk­
ard, as set down by Amis Tuitolla.
Interview excerpt
Bishkoff: We’re putting a lot of hopes on 
this African thing, it’s like an ascendence 
over the cusp, like we’ll finally be doing 
something real for once, opposed to just 
blind stabs in the dark. Learning as opposed 
to just learning experiences.
Aldens: Something more operatic.
Bishkoff: Now we feel we’re qualified, like 
we have some backbone, something to stand 
on, where before . . .
Knapp: Yeah, we’re starting to get a little
..Allegheny & 
Womens 
tenter
BTVAI B’RITH HILLEL
'r 2-8r'C&t'8f nhha'2n8vr S-t h&&t 
-ovt&n2l .-tR&tru
z2l-antrl'h -hh-tvo8'v'&r nt& 
nwn'anEa&u
ja&nr& 2-8vn2v "nEE' J-& 4&w'8& nv 
x'aa&a S-t C&vn'arX W01N88)bu
more taste to our playing, getting more sen­
sitive to each other, listening more . . .
However, the forces of graduation and 
personal choices of band members have 
eclipsed that goal. There’s something eerie 
about playing an interview back after so 
many things ha ve changed, when the future 
turned out to be quite different than plans 
called for. Somewhere in there is a metaphor 
that will probably remain buried, but it 
symbolizes some of the energies that made 
Dave move. The band was a tornado of 
separate ideas and interests trying to identify 
itself, yet changing so fast that a solid iden­
tity could never last.
Since the beginning of Dave (even back in 
the days of Art Now), the band’s sound has 
been influenced by the classical training of 
the band. However, it would be easier to 
choose influences of more contemporary 
bands like ELP, Yes, King Crimson, and 
Zappa, rather than Bach, Beethoven or Stra­
vinsky. Their classical training manifests 
itself more in their attitude toward music 
and the way they feel about playing it.
Excerpt from interview:
Dave K: You need to have the technical 
freedom to be able to say I’m going to play 
this rhythm and this line . . . To be able to 
hear something and know how to write it 
down, that’s real technique, and that classi­
cal training is what influences us because 
you must have the freedom of your instru­
ment . . .
Joe: You have to master the mechanics of 
playing your instrument in order to be free 
enough on it to improvise well. That’s the 
bottom line.
That bottom line of classical musician­
ship, combined with a strong desire to be 
different, to carve a unique Dave sound, yet 
countered by the pressures of individual 
interests as well as the demands of acquiring 
a CMU education, seemed to lead Dave to 
look outside of itself for thematic 
inspiration.
The most inspired Dave tunes seem to 
arise out of setting literary material to music. 
There’s the Poe poem formed into “Out of 
Space, Out of Time”, “Rimbaud”, a tune 
carried forward from Art Now days and a 
favorite with Dave fans, “Ballad of the 
Moon”, after a poem by Fredrico Garcia 
Lourca, and one of the first Dave tunes com­
posed after Art Now’s disolution. More 
recently, since the fall erf 1982, there’s “Gub- 
binal”, a tune written by Aldens based on a 
poem by Wallace Stevens of the same title, 
and an instrumental by Bishkoff titled 
“Sinn Fein” after the name of an I.R.A. 
terrorist group. And before he left the band, 
Nigrin wrote “Babbitt Man” after the novel 
Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
The African opera and Sinn Fein are a 
good examples of the direction Dave was 
headed for before the force of entropy again 
dismantled the band.
Excerpt from interview:
Aldens: In that tune,(“Sinn Fein”) it’s kind 
of Polynesian, there we definitely worked 
with those kinds of rhythms. But it’s a real 
Dave tune ‘cause we took something 
Polynesian, and something we experienced 
in the rhythm ... Do you think we played it 
like the records of Balinesian music?
Knapp: No, because we pushed it too much. 
They just approach it so differently, they 
don’t hesitate — they’re a little more on the 
back of the beat, we’re a little bit more on the 
front of the beat.
Aldens- So we created our own energy. 
Bishkoff: Our kind of energy.
Knapp: We’re not Polynesian ... I mean 
their whole background is totally Balinese, 
totally homey island, and their whole con­
cept of music is based on that. So we taped 
that, looked at it, played it, and said, well... 
this is part of their experience and we’re 
sharing it with them, but there’s no way we 
can be that.
Dave was a collection of diverse individu­
als, brought together by a love for music, but 
pulled apart by the drives of their various 
interests. Their sound was a throbbing, tor­
rent of electic music something like separate 
currents of water rushing into a funnel, 
creating a burst of directed pressure then 
diffusing once again into distinct streams.
Dave is soon to be no more, yet pieces of 
the band stick with the individual members. 
Bishkoff and Aldens are planning to record 
a couple of Dave tunes in Boston this 
summer. The idea for the opera based on an 
African legend is still strong and according 
to Bishkoff, may yet be bom on a New York 
stage. And Nigrin suggested that he might 
work with Knapp, here in Pittsburgh, con­
tinuing perhaps another current of Dave. 
Rumor has it that Withrow will further 
refine already sharp percussion skills this 
summer, and Burgenfeldt has a EE job for 
the summer, and will also play in a band 
back in New Jersey. (My apologies to Bruce 
and Dave for not calling to confirm this — I 
hope it’s close.)
Certain tunes like “Rimbaud”, “Prison­
ers”, “Out of Space, Out of Time”, “Gubbi- 
nal”, and “Sinn Fein” highlight the 
strongest points of Dave. But more than any 
one tune can encapsulate the band, it was 
their performances that showed the mettle of 
Dave. Happily, hopefully, Dave will per­
form once more. As you may be able to tell, I 
like the band; although no article can do 
Dave justice, I hope I’ve convinced you that 
their final show will be worth attending — 
you’ll probably kick yourself for missing it.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics 
12 02. & 16 oi. cons (& quarts) 
STROHS
LOWENBRAU It, Dk .-bottles
MICHE10B
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHUTZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGER—bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)—bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE—bottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHEL0B LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES Of SUBS
Steak • Corned Beef • Tuno • Turkey
SANOWICHES
Haddock • Cod • Ground Steak • Sousoge 
Veal • Chuck • Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steok Subs • Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
iII/g served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday I pm-2 om •mports. Cons Quarts. Droit Pitchers Mugs Your Choice oi 6 Droit Beers: HEINEKEN • MOLSON ALE • MICHELOB STROHS • MILLERS • SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oi 6 pk 
featured each weekSTROHS • ROLLING ROCK • SCHLITZ OLD ENGLISH 800 • SCHLITZ MALT • PABST
Imports
BECK'S Lt 0k — Germony 
BASS ALE England 
HARP LAGER - Ireland 
MOLSON GOLDEN -Canodo 
HEINEKEN It 0k -Holland 
LOWENBRAU — Gr-rmany 
0 KEEFE Alt — Canada 
PIISKR URQUELL- Cieih 
KIRIN — Japan
MACKESS0N STOUT - h eland
ST PAUtl GIRI Germony 
DOS EQUIS XX Mexico 
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNCTS —Englond 
CARIS8ERG ELEPHANT Den 
CARLSBERG ROTALE 
CARIS8ERG DARK 
TSINGTAO Chino 
HACKER PSCHORR — Germony
LABATTS Conodo 
MURPHY - Ireland
OLD VIENNA LAGER - Canado COOPER & SON - Australia 
55 LAGER — Conodo FOSTER 5 LAGER Austro!«
HOT DOG SHOPS, IHC.
Open9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 9am-4 45am FriSot 
Coll 621 7388 or 621 1185 3901 Forbes Ave (Oakland) 
Pgh.. PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Gzs iMyi,5z F44 G"FQ z,PQ5M,z
,s ,x5 
,xFM! GsQ i,'z
SPRING 
COOKOUT
K"iu pFY 1g 
gNb jp
U5,(55M js",5"
& (5FM
F K"iu ,x5 1g™ 
YsP (i44 M5y5"
Ks"G5, !
( BUT YOU MUST BE OYER 21 IVITH PICTURE I.D.)
-FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

\
May 3, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
rA*S*H trivia returns
¦y JOE GUARINO[orton Staffurriter
Sorry, folks. I missed last week’s paper due 
, an overdose of Spring Carnival. But here 
ten questions for you to ponder over.
1. What is Frank Bum’s middle name?
2. What was the name of the child 
trapper John almost adopted?
3. Where did Col. Blake die?
4. Who was ‘Charlie?
5. What was Potter’s horse’s name?
6. Why did Radar go home?
7. What hospital did Winchester have 
jigh hopes of going to once he returned to 
he States?
I 8. Who was the 2 year old with whom 
Beniy Blake fell in love while on a R-and- 
I?
9. What did Radar leave Hawkeye when
left?
10. What did Col. Blake do to Hot Lips
right before he left?
Answers
f¿e-*»-:ivg si it ‘ÁjjEnpy ajiM 
s<95iEia 'l°3 SBM lRqi paiEjs ÁjSui
->[E}SIUI J ‘oSe M3] y :UOp39XICQ
sumg >{URij[ jo luoij ui 
ssPt E i3q 3ae§ pue iaq paddtp aj-j 01 
JE9q Appai sif| '6 
an§ Á3uej\¿ •§ 
IRI9U9Q uoisog •I 
laqioui siq jo airo oj auuoq 
oS oi pcq aq pue patp peq p^j apuQ sifj '9
aiqdog c 
passiui sábmjb
mq ‘9iis dump s(h#S#V#IM no quioq b doip 
°l 9UBjd Suuajjnds ‘pjo ub ui diRqs urd 
5 W. (9[iqME JOj) ÁEpÁJ3A3 3UIB3 OqM UB3JO^ 
qiio^i e seay (3ijjBq3 ^Dop-o-aAij, 
uedef jo aqj ia\o qseo 3UR[d . uj g
mDI Z
UOliBJ\[ q
photo by Stever Winawer
G-Force, formerly known as the Granati Brothers, played CMU for the Love Boat Party held 
last Friday.
NK-t2& vnaRr nE-ov S-t3nv'-8X 2ln8f& n8C yn8 xna&8
The following interview excerpts were 
'iducted as a live broadcast from WRCT. 
\isc jockey Redhot Rosa was the inter- 
fewer of the band, G-Force, who played 
[U recently for the Love Boat party.
The all-brother band was previously 
wwn as the Granati Brothers and has 
iyed with the likes of Van Halen on their 
ajor American tours. From Western Pen- 
ylvania, G-Force has also played for sev- 
il steel worker benefits in the local area, 
he band hopes to soon release another 
bum.
i: How did you guys form together? 
ou are all brothers, aren’t you?
Iicki: It started with a gleam in the old 
in’s eye back in ’51. Joey: Actually we
formed in a natural progression. Each one 
of us played in bands for a many number of 
years and it just came together like two lov­
ers or something.
David: We are all brothers cause we have 
been together physically. Me, for instance, 
I’m the youngest and I haven’t had a day to 
myself without these three.
Ricki: Of course he’s had three brilliant 
minds to leam from.
Joey: Can I ask you a question?
Rosa: Yes, sure.
Joey: Where did you get the name Redhot 
Rosa?
Rosa: Well it’s a long story but I had to start 
here doing the news and I was . . .
If you really want to know I can tell you
later.
Rosa: Speaking of the new music today, 
how do you feel about what’s going across 
the air?
David: It’s great, all of it. It’s all great. 
Joey: No, actually we like it very much. We 
feel like we’re part of it. We feel like we are 
pioneers of electronic sound. We like to 
think we are one of the first bands to make 
heavy music in conjuction with electronic 
music.
Rosa: You guys were playing a lot with Van 
Halen and some other bands and now 
you’re back to the college type of circuit 
How do you feel about that’
Joey: We actually feel we’re where we 
should be. The tours were great as far as
getting us out to the people in the nation. 
We’d rather do things at this point cause we 
feel like playing at a place like Carnegie- 
Mellon, there are people here who will 
know what we’re trying to say.
Rosa: You have done some work with Eddie 
Van Halen, I believe that one of you has 
done more extensive work than the rest of 
you, is that true?
David: He’s a pretty spiritual guy, so there 
have been times we’ve talked to him about 
his music and he’s kind of opened up and 
maybe tell you things he doesn’t usually say 
on interviews.
Ricki: Also, David helped Eddie through a 
really bad period in his life he had an afflic­
tion towards older women.
pP FCn3r-8 n.ntC .'88&tr n88-o82&C
On April 18, Vanity Fair’s John Leonard 
esented the 1983 Adamson Awards in 
Iregg Hall. Congratulations to the follow-
Ig winners:
Alice Alfonsi, first prize , Undergraduate
[say.
[ Andrew Sicree, second prize, Undergradu-
Essay.
I Susan Stauffacher, honorable mendon, 
udergraduate Essay.
[Ronald N. Weikers, honorable mention, 
idergiaduate Essay.
Margaret Kantz, first prize, Graduate 
Article.
Kevin R. McCauley,second prize, Gradu­
ate Article.
Ann E. Daley,first prize, Undergraduate 
Fiction.
Carol Marble, second prize, Undergradu­
ate Fiction.
Lynne Schatz, honorable mention, 
Undergraduate Fiction.
Kyle Fisher, honorable mention, Under­
graduate Fiction.
Kristin Kovacic, first prize, Undergradu­
ate Poetry.
Lauren Schneider, first prize, Undergrad­
uate Poetry.
Jeffrey Schwartz, first prize, Graduate 
Poetry.
Alice Alfonsi,Academy of American Poets 
Prize.
Louise Crocoll, honorable mention, 
Academy of American Poets Prize.
Allyson Hunter, honorable mention,
Academy of American Poets Prize.
Janice Zulawski Woester, honorable men­
tion, Academy of American Poets Prize.
Catherine Stroud Vodrev, Camergie- 
Mellon University Press Pri;e.
Maria Arzenti, honorable mention, 
Camegie-Mellon University Press Prize.
Caleb Corkery, honorable mention, 
Camegie-Mellon University Press Prize.
Linda Paslaski, honorable mention, 
Camegie-Mellon University Press Prize.
SIJAUIIX
EAVIIiOYiUBKT
$2401*1211 WEEK
Royal Prestige seeking students to 
supplement workforce!
-----FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT-------
For further information, come to interviews:
Date Wed. May 4 Time 1%, 4 Place Skibo 12
j"5jF"5 Ks"MCAT-LSAT'GMAT SAT »DAT-GRE. CFA
Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated full­time staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPZ^vfaciIities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
• Opportunity to make up missed lessons.• Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by research­ers expert in their field.• Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO • MAT • PCAT • OCAT • VAT • UJEFL 
MSKP • NMB • VQE * ECFMG • FLEX • NDB • NLE
Kß OÍ/! M Corners Center, Negley & Baum 
Pittsburgh, Pa 15206
Call Days Eve* & Wpfk^n'l«;
Essex House L12
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
z!iUs TLF

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Joe Freshman by Mark Levine
^ iXUJsi K\il Out j Ai Going 
To uuiwG IN TH»s Room 
NfrT 'ffAfc. |v\imo |P I PoP 
^ON AK/a HAVÉ A ¿-ookL/
,;Kiv.- lO
HMM... fRtny wicf.
T^s A DoüßtiT V/H£*£
TH£ OüTtfTS*
<»* t HIM THfi 
Ut kotoKî K»«
Orv///, » » A-.Æ-
by Diane ThodosIpso Facto
A\r\c)V+ ' Aifi^h+i 
iVs cv monster]
(//f )| wçtg
V\VV\£. f U/Vta + yA^<€5, 
v/ou' +V\^^c yot/'r€
Ut^¦VV?í^’
^ WO*S+<?f 
Viow ¦ •
ricHic^ovv
Poindexter
WHM pio Yoo po to pgqgve lüis?')
DÌxW(5Q 
-x pY 
MPSrat/. /
Crossword
?IJV¦
?st'a
//
'J¦II «'¦W
'fi /
"3i
”1
Jo
"wmlr¦-*IV/
11
Vz
Across
I. Fable Author 
6. Sea water
II. Tracheal hole
12. Insurrectionist
13. Apple skinner
14. Alleviates
15. Subjugate
17. In Tarot, 56______
19. Completes
22. “I think, therefore I
23. Crow sound
25. Id est
26. Evening twilight 
29. Vishnu, Siva, and
Arcana
32. Follower of Aquinas theology
34. Vagrant
36. Modified squish
39. Desire, envy
40. Taunt
41. Alcoholic beverages
42. Eden’s temptor
Down
1. Venemous cobra
2. 7th letter of Gieek alphabet
3. Ulcers
4. Forebodings
5. 3.26 light years
6. La________Tarpits
7. Plunder
8. Ghosts author
9. Originally called
10. Extravehicular life support (abbr.)
16. Long range anti-ballistic missile (abbr.)
17. Young boy
18. Flightless bird
20. Faintly visible
21. Body of water 
24. Carples
27. Staff
28 .____________ Republic, now Karri p<1(^
30. Poplar .
31. High tension low amperage apparatus (a
34. Trichlorobenzene (abbr.)
35. Doe
37. Inquire
38. Golf peg

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
jassifieds
tfntner Employment Royal Prestige has 
^rner work available in many areas of the 
0te. Twelve weeks, guaranteed, $240 a week and 
p. For more information, come to Skibo Room 
Wed. May 4th, Info Sessions at 12,2, and 4.
^mer Sublet: large 2nd floor apartment. 5170 
eeler St. 1 block from campus. 3 bedrooms, 
¡chen, dining room, living room, small office 
iace, sun porch, laundry facilities. $655/month 
( and electric. Ideal for 3 to 5. Call Don or 
orkat 578-4663.
yjnnier Housemates needed for large, clean, car- 
eted house 10 minutes walk away. It’s QUIET 
,jd COOL so you can get your work done. SIN- 
;LE open June 1, Double on May 18. Both 
joms very sunny and huge. Call Mr. Whalen at 
83-2589 for more details.
partment for Sublet - This is it! Your last 
jance. 2 bedroom - furnished apartment for 
iblet. Available May 15-August 31. Laundry, 
arking, very close to CMU. Located on Fifth 
venue, Shadyside. Shopping on Shadyside’s 
ialnui Street. Rent $400-420/month — utilities 
icluded. Call 681-5127 (after 6 p.m. please!) 
lurry!
ummer Sublet— Furnished apartment with full 
jtchen and dining area. Excellent location, 
^rge living room with glass doors into kitchen. 
)ne bedroom with closet, walk-in closet in hal- 
way. Excellent security. Air conditioning 
iptional. Call Gene anytime 682-5617.
quirrel Hill. Walk to CMU, Pitt. Sunny home 
i move-in condition; HW FI.; Cent. Air; 3 BR; 
h baths; extra room on 3rd; int. gar.; exc. 
lechanics; patio. 681-4941/578-2863.
olunteers are needed to help nine-year-old Jodi 
iarda with her fight to walk again. Jodi was left 
nth brain damage as a result of a kidney disease 
m years ago. Her program runs six days/week, 
wice/day from 1 to 3 p.m. or 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. No 
xperience is necessary. If you have love to give 
nd time to share, please call 271-2191.
itudio Arts, Theater Arts, and Architectural
lajors! Do you need slides of your artwork? Do 
ou need production and head shots for your 
heatrical portfolio? Do you need to document 
rchitectural models? Call Eric Shawoski, free- 
ance photographer, for competitive estimates. 
87-6163.
Honda Accord 4 dr., 34,000 mi., red, p.s., 
>b., air, stereo tape, Ziebart, excellent cond., 
5400. 681-3682.
•bedroom apt. for rent, kitchen and bath, w/w 
atpeting, A/C, available June, July, Aug., 
280.00/mo. utilities included. 683-3587, 622- 
1 (day & eve.) Ivy, Shadyside.
»ubletting efficiency apt. in Oakland. Close to 
lit and CMU. Subletting June 1st or sooner, 
all 771-4810 ext. 180 between noon and 1 p.m.
«kland - Furnished, 2 bedroom apt and sun- 
orch; clean, freshly painted, 2nd floor. $260 + 
Metric. 621-3824.
^WARD! For the return of a lost (borrowed) 
anon AE-1 programable camera. Black body 
lnd case. Please return! x3660 or x4211.
you have $160 and a way to get to New York, 
0u can be in Eurpoe by the day after tomorrow 
AIRHITCH. For details, call 800-372-1234.
Summer jobs. Temporary typing, secretarial and 
word processing available. Short/long term. All 
areas. Students/teachers welcome. Must be at 
least 18. Call for appointment. Manpower Tem- 
oorarv Services. 391-7034.
Secure apartments for September now. Studios 
and 1 .bedroom. Walking distance to university. 
361-5792 and 621-2655.
Wanted: Used Textbooks. Get immediate cash 
for your used textbooks. Call 687-5371 or come to 
5533 Ellsworth Ave. #201
Apartment sublet June 1 to Aug. 31,2 bedrooms 
one w/ private entrance, french doors and beam 
ceiling; sunny kitchen, dining room w/ beam 
ceilings, bath. 236 Semple St, Oakland. Near 
laundromat and Giant Eagle. $275 + util. 687- 
2379.
Sublet Dawson St. in Oakland. 10 minutes 
CMU, 5 Pitt. One bedroom fits 2 easy. $280/mo. 
687-4262. Sept. option. Savu
Will type termpapers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts, and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Panther Hollow Inn announces their week night 
specials— Monday Happy Hour 10 p.m.-2 a.m.; 
Tues.— Ladies night 8 p.m.-l a.m.; Wed.— Kit­
chen Specials 8 p.m.-l 1 p.m.; Thurs.— CMU 
night 9 p.m.-2 a.m.
Summer Sublet Bayard St. efficiency; furnished. 
15 minute walk from CMU. $250/mo. includes 
all utilities. Available May 1 thru August 31. 
683-4961.
Photographers: I will buy your used fixer. Call 
Chris: 642-4432.
Squirrel Hill - large 2-bedroom apts.; clean, 
freshly painted - $330 + utilities. 521-4031.
Squirrel Hill - Large, carpeted, furnished room 
in private home. Females only, please. $180 
includes laundry, phone, utilities. 521-4031.
Summer jobs. Temporary labor jobs available. 
Short/long term. All areas. Students/teachers 
welcome. Car/phone necessary. Must be at least 
18. Call for appointment. Manpower Temporary 
Services. 471-8912.
Roomate/Apartment Needed. Female master’s 
graduate from Univ. of Michigan moving to 
Pgh. for two-yr. administrative fellowship at 
local hospital. Needs apartment and roommate 
starting in July, preferably in Shadyside, Squirrel 
Hill or Oakland areas. Call days: Suzanne 359- 
3232 or Jim 359-3625.
Congratulations and good luck to all our seniors. 
We’ll miss you. —The sisters and pledges of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Shadyside Summer Sublet. Between Walnut and 
Fifth. Great location. 2/3 BR furnished. 
$300/month negotiable. Call 687-8323.
Russian Tutor/translator experienced graduate 
of polytechnical Institute of Leningrad. Lessons 
at mv aDartment or on campus. Call 881-6843.
Diane’s Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
business, and personal typing. 464-1618.
$100 reward: for the return or information lead­
ing to the return of my gold wedding band. Lost 
in basement area of Fine Arts. No questions 
asked. If you have any information, please call 
Larry Ordener at 687-3396 or contact the music 
dept, office.
Last Week's 
Puzzle Answer
This Week’s 
Puzzle Answer
Ve Vo s r o ft 
'P A ß E 
8 N
?UÇ> R ineaB'î? e î> ë L 
«P'iAS ts 
5 L A v iplg 
i "e s s 6 ß M’t n t> ‘ 5 'âmK,a wlH ; e 
O uTkIb rftriM 
Htmm ' vtPP
t fl- M P Éhs PLAT 
c 0 \l e tBt £ A s £ 
B E e sP'î W A K e
Last word on SweepstakesThoughts, points made
Editor:
I must congratulate Jeffrey Bergman, the 
Tartan sports editor, for a good article on 
the 1983 sweepstakes. There was a lot to tell, 
and he told most of it. However, there are a 
few points that need clarification, and a few 
points that must be corrected.
1. In heat 3, Sigma Nu’s C buggy, Scor­
pion, never crossed the finish line, as origi­
nally stated. The nose piece came loose on 
hill two, and driver Janet Hemmerle 
stopped the buggy as it entered free roll.
2. In heat 6, Beta-B Presence ran away 
from the field. But what was not mentioned 
was that while Phi-Kap was carrying 
Shadow, their C buggy out to theline, it was 
dropped. They were obviously rushed, and 
one of the people carrying it tripped and fell. 
They still raced, barely arriving at the line in 
time, but then failed the brake test, very 
possibly because of the mishap.
3. In case anyone didn’t notice, two of the 
captions on page 7 (of the Carnival Supple­
ment) are reversed. The caption under the 
picture of Beta’s Vixen describes Sigma Nu, 
and the one under Sigma Nu’s Lemur des­
cribes Beta.
4. The “suprise of the day” was TX-B 
Vapor. It was then stated that they used their 
A buggy and A pushers. Then why are they 
TX-B? And what is Vapor?
5. CIA’s Black Magic is not three years 
old, as stated. It has been raced every year 
since 1976, and was rebuilt after a head-on 
collision in the chute in 1979.
6. An interesting point worth mentioning 
is that Pika-B and Beta-B, technically, 
should have been disqualified. It is clearly 
stated in the sweepstakes rules that whe­
never a team wants a re-roll because they felt 
they were fouled, they must successfully per­
form a brake test immediately after the race 
in question. However, neither Pika or Beta 
did so after their controversial heat; both 
buggies were quickly wheeled back into 
their trucks. Everyone was so busy arguing, 
no brake test was performed, and further­
more, no one noticed. Maybe both teams
were told they didn’t have to. Maybe the 
sweepstakes chairperson didn’t know about 
the rule. Maybe there is some information 
that is not being made public, in hopes of 
avoiding futher controversy. Who knows? 
Anyway, congratulations to drivers Patti 
Carlisle and Frande Elikan for avoiding a 
potentially dangerous accident.
A buggy mechanicMill towns tough case
By SCOTT SAFIER
Tartan Staffiuriter
There is no quick fix to their problems 
was the answer given to the Steel Valley 
Council by CMU students investigating the 
problems of the mill towns. The students 
are members of SUPA’s Physical and Tech­
nical Project and EPP project courses. 
These students studied 27 local mill towns 
and presented case studies of Qairton, Ali- 
quippa, and the Homestead area.
These local communities face several 
problems— high unemployment caused by 
the layoffs from the mills, the loss of small 
business, and, in some cases, financial prob­
lems. Past solutions to these problems 
involved “throwing money” at the central 
business districts which resulted in only cos­
metic changes to the storefronts. The pro­
jects reports outlined five points to aid the 
recovery; steel retention, business retention, 
business attraction, business creation, and 
the creation of commuter communities. 
Steel retention entails keeping the industry, 
but not relying on the industry to solve the 
steel town’s problems. Business retention, 
attraction, and creation involve aiding the 
ailing central business districts and making 
the best use of available land which can be 
used for industrial development. Commuter 
communities are towns whose major pur­
pose is residential, rather than industrial 
development. Although none of these 
points are the solutions “quick fixes”, they 
may provide hope for the future.
Desire A Career In Human Services: School & Community?
The following Counselor Education Degree and Certification programs are 
available at Indiana University of Pennsylvania:
*The Master of Education Degree
Graduates are certified to function as elementary and secondary school 
counselors.
•The Master of Arts Degree in Counseling Services
Preparation for employment in community counseling agencies.
The Master of Arts Degree in Student Personnel Services
Preparation for employment in all areas of student personnel services in 
higher education.
*Post Masters Certification Program
Graduates are prepared to function as supervisors of guidance services and 
supervisors of pupil personnel services for basic education K-12.
•Doctor of Education Degree
Graduates are prepared to function as managers of human services in school 
and community settings.
G5M5"F4 iMKs"pF,isM
Graduate Record Examination is required GENERAL (aptitude) TEST.
Education degrees or teaching credentials are not required for admission to IUP 
Counselor Education programs but are recommended for those desiring employment 
in school settings.
Graduate assistantships with waiver of tuition are available on a competitive
basis.
For further information, complete the form below and send to:
Department of Counselor Education 
IIP
Indiana, PA 15705 
Phone: (412) 357-2306Name __________________________________________________
School Address ______________________________________________________________________
College University and Maior _____________________________________________
Deeree and Year _________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Baseball wins first but falls short elsewhere
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
Last week brought CMU their first vic­
tory but the other three games didn’t go as 
well. But the good news first.
The Tartan bats, which had been in a 
slump for most of the year, came alive 
against Penn State-New Kensington to 
down the Lions 11-10. Down 10-9 going 
into the bottom of the ninth, CMU rallied 
for two runs to win the game. The win went 
to reliever Dan Burgandy who pitched four 
strong innings in relief giving up three runs 
of which two were unearned.
The hitting star for the Tartans was 
second baseman Andy Rossi. ‘Bucco’ 
slammed a powerful two run homer to left
to keep CMU offense rolling. Also contri­
buting were shortstop Mike Homer who 
had a two run double, Joe Schwab and John 
Spanos who both had two RBI’s, and Tim 
Nagy and Ron Faulkner who added single 
RBI’s.
In the other three games of the week, 
CMU benefitted from great starting pitch­
ing but couldn’t support their hurlers and 
ended up on the short side of the score.
At St. Vincent Tuesday, starter Mike 
Oxford was untouchable for six innings 
with the only blemish being two unearned 
runs in the third inning. A depleted squad 
gave Oxford great support on the field for 
most of the game but couldn’t support him 
at the plate.
Oxford finally tired in the seventh and 
was repleced by Buzzie midway through the 
inning with none out and two on. The 
Buzzer had trouble with his control and was 
trounced upon. When the inning was over
10 runs had crossed the plate putting the 
game out of reach.
The same formula applied to the game vs. 
CCBC. Bob Flaherty started and pitched 
good enough to win but lacked help from 
his teammates. Center fielder Richie Theg 
tied the game in the third inning at 2-2 with 
a double to right center but CCBC’s 3-4-5 
hitters did in CMU stretching the lead to 7-2.
The Tartans valiantly tried to repeat the 
performance vs. Penn State by scoring two 
in the seventh on a single by Larry Rope-
lewski but fell short.
Against Boyce Community Colleg 
Novak became the first Tartan starter tog 
all the way and complete a game but it wi 
to no avail. The CMU bats continued toh 
the ball hard but right at people and agai 
lost 6-3. Boyce jumped ahead 5?0 on tl 
strength of a home run by their shortsto] 
But the Tartans again rebounded cuttin 
the lead to 5-3 with Ropelewski hitting 
two run triple driving in Horner an 
Faulkner. Following a Mike Seel lineoi 
Joe Schwab came through in the clutch In 
ing a single to center knocking in Ropes an 
closing the gap to 5-3. That was as far < 
CMU was to get as they stranded t" 
runners in the ninth and again fell short
CMU Track team takes fifth straight PAC crowi
By ART MUZ3K
Special for the Tartan
For the fifth straight year Coach Gary 
Meckley won the PAC track and field cham­
pionships held at Case Western Reserve 
University. This was the most impressive 
victory erf the five championships since both 
Allegheny and Case Western Reserve had 
many outstanding seniors. Allegheny posed 
the greatest threat to Coach Meckley’s vic­
tory streak, relying on the strength of their 
distance runners and on their strength in the 
field events.
Aftei the first day of events, Allegheny led 
CMU, despite fine performances by Kevin 
Brewer, who finished 3rd in the 10,000 meter
run, Ivan Juzang and Jim Rodgers who 
placed 2nd and 3rd respectively in the triple 
jump.
Saturday morning began with the 
remaining field events and Ivan Juzang 
jumping an amazing 23 feet in the wind and 
rain. This jump qualified Ivan for the Div­
ision III National Championships in Chi­
cago. Allegheny remained in die lead 
despite Ivan’s first place finish.
Allegheny, expecting to score extremely 
well in the distance events with their abun­
dance erf runners, was surprised as Chris 
Shafer and Carl Weakland placed 2-3 in the 
1500 meter run, respectively. After the 1500 
meter run, meet MVP Kevin Cureton
stepped onto the track. He repeated his per­
formances of the previous year, winning the 
100 meter dash and also the 200 meter dash. 
Following Kevin closely in the 100 and 200 
were Pete Bennet, 3rd, and George Ridley, 
2nd, respectively. With the score almost 
even, Bob Krause gave CMU two much 
needed victories in the 400 meter dash and in 
the 400 meter intermediate hurdles.
CMU taking the lead after the 1-2 finish 
in the 200 meter dash was pleased to see 
Chris Shafer and Mark Merlie place 3-4 in 
the 5000 meter run. With the victory in sight, 
the mile relay of George Ridley, Dean Gal­
vin, Bob Krause, and Kevin Cureton, ran 
away from the competition to finish theday,
CMU — 168, Allegheny — 141, and C 
Reserve — 100.Durr honor#
CMU’s womens basketball star I*130 
Durr was named to the second team 
America in Division III for her outstan 1 
performance last season.
The senior from Baltimore, finished 
in the nation in scoring, averaging a 
ping 20.4 points per game. Dun was 
only a one way player because she was * 
8th in the nation in rebounds, haU 
down 14.9 pergame. For Durr, this Is 
climax of a great four years at CMl;" 
she has started since her freshman yftl1
This photograph by Gene Yonish taken during the CMU-Allegheny game earlier this year has been voted by the Tartan editors as the sports photo of the year. Here QB Bill Kiselickrui 
for a key first down. Congratulations Gene!
¦
