TARTAN
February 13, 1979 Volume 79, Number 21 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 ________
GSIA Prof. Named to State Labor Post
WRCT Antenna Approved by Zoning Board
by Ed Frankenberry
The prospect of WRCT's antenna move 
came much closer to realization following 
a "highly successful" public zoning 
hearing held two Fridays ago. According 
to Chas Sislen, general manager of the 
radio station, "things haven't looked bet-IIter.
The February 2 hearing followed the 
station's request for a building permit to 
erect a new antenna atop Warner Hall. 
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank and 
staff members had met previously with a 
citizen's group known as the Squirrel
Hill Urban Coalition. The group sought 
assurances from the University that the 
proposed antenna move would not cause 
television interference to nearby residents. 
Once it was explained to representatives 
of the Coalition that WRCT is legally 
obligated (by its station license) to prevent 
and correct any interference, the hear­
ing proceeded with "zero opposition," 
Sislen explained. He expects to receive 
official notification of the permit approval 
by today. In the past five years, Sislen 
noted, WRCT has received only one valid 
complaint of interference (which was
found to be caused by a malfunctioning 
apartment building antenna system, and 
not the station).
The station is now ready to accept 
bids for the construction of the new 
antenna. The FCC application for the
antenna move has been submitted and a 
decision is expected within 2 months. 
Pending approval from the FCC, an order 
will be placed for the antenna and mast.
At that time, plans will be finalized for a 
new transmitter which will increase the 
station's signal power.
Ed Simon, a CMU alumnus, has acted as 
technical advisor to WRCT throughout the 
planning and proposal stage. He and John 
Becker, a student staffer, are credited 
with compiling the more than 80 pages of 
forms and technical reports describing 
the antenna bid, which local asd federal 
authorities require.
Theta Xi Cook Killed
by Bill Kapner
Last Tuesday, Pennsylvania Governor 
Richard Thornburgh nominated GSIA pro­
fessor Myron Joseph 'to the state cabinet 
post of Secretary of Labor and Industry. 
On the 29th of this month, Dr. Joseph, a 
democrat, will go before a hearing of the 
relevant committee of the State Senate. 
The committee will then send its report 
and recommendation to the senate body as 
a whole. At some date shortly afterwards a 
senate vote on whether or not to confirm 
the appointment will be made.
There was some surprise expressed 
around the state that Thornburgh would 
appoint a democrat to such a high level 
post. Dr. Joseph, the last cabinet member 
nominated by the governor, will become 
only the fourth democrat among 18 cabi­
net members if his nomination is confirm­
ed. In light of his qualifications and exten­
sive past labor experience his nomination 
becomes less of a surprise, however. In an 
interview with the TARTAN in his office 
last week Dr. Joseph stated that the nom­
ination did not really surprise him as he 
felt that the governor wanted to put to­
gether the best cabinet possible.
After some initial misgivings about ac­
cepting the governor's nomination he and 
his wife decided that the job sounded inter­
GSIA Annex Insulation is Flammable
which essentially means industrial rela­
tions, labor-magement, organizational 
'analysis, and labor-management relations."
He added, "In the past 20 years I’ve been 
an active arbitrator, but in recent years I've 
cut back my arbitration activities and de­
voted more time to the university." In 
1963 Joseph went to Washington and serv­
ed for a period as the senior staff econo­
mist on the President's Council of Econo­
mic Advisors under both the Kennedy and 
Johnson administrations.
Within the course of the interview last 
week Dr. Joseph expressed the thought 
that students should not really be surpris­
ed that faculty members are from time to 
time picked out by the outside world. He 
stated "Generally, the student does not 
perceive his professor as prestigious be­
cause they are seen only in the capacity as 
teacher."It must be remembered," he went 
on to add, "that there is another part of 
the faculty member’s life which may in­
clude research activities, his relationships 
with government bodies, and his work with 
various foundations." He stated that per­
haps students be made more aware of how 
prestigeful and greatly respected within 
their various fields many faculty members 
actually are.
Timothy Larkins, a former CMU stu­
dent and the cook at Theta Xi fraternity, 
was killed early Tuesday morning in a car 
accident. Larkins was driving up Morewopd 
Avenue (towards CMU) when a westbound 
truck traveling on Fifth Avenue (towards 
Pitt) went through a red light and hit his 
car broadside. Larkins was pronounced 
dead on arrival at Presbyterian Hospital.
The truck driver was unharmed, but was 
held on $10,000 bond for speeding, driving 
through a red light, intoxication and dri-
Last Thursday, Richard Van Horn met 
with the Faculty Senate Executive Com­
mittee about the safety of the GSIA con­
struction. Civil Engineering professor Ed 
Krokosky contended that the insulation 
used in the annex was flamable and would 
be hazardous in case of fire.
The insulation used is a styrofoam 
material which would burn if subject to 
high temperatures. Krokosky declared that 
there should not be flammable materials 
within the structure of a building.
When contacted about the situation, 
vHorn explained that the flammable
styrofoam used is placed between ;< con­
crete wall on one side and plaster board 
on the other. Van Horn said the plaster 
board has been approved by the fire 
safety commission and is not flammable.
"The architects and engineers we asked 
said it was a reasonable way to proceed," 
Van Horn stated. "We had to draw the line 
somewhere, and we just drew it at a 
different place than Dr. Krokosky. '*
Van Horn suspected there would be 
little danger during a fire because the 
styrofoam would be sandwiched between
esistant materiata.
I Mark Lane, one of America's foremost authorities on assasinations (aboveI, and Dick Gregory, 
I critic, author, actor and comedian, will appear in the Skibo ballroom tonight at 8 p,m, Lane 
I made news internationally this past November because he was Jam« Jones lawyer during th* time 
I of the Guyana massacre. Gregory, known nationwide for a variety of endeavors, ran for U.S. pres- 
1 ident in 196b. He lost. The two men win speak on the topic, wno Kiiltid ¡viaitin lu trier J\ingr
Myron Joseph, professor in GSIA, was the last person named to Pa. Governor Thornburgh's ad­
ministration.
esting, exciting and challenging and per­
haps it would be a wise choice to accept 
the post. Following his meeting with the 
governor Thursday, Dr. Joseph determined 
that there were no major policy positions 
he held that were inconsistent with the 
governor's which could cause friction. The 
governor then asked him to join his cabinet 
and Joseph accepted. One of the things 
that Joseph claimed made the position
extra attractive was the fact that he felt 
Richard Thornburg reflects very well Rich­
ard Cyert's commitment to excellence. Dr. 
Joseph plans to report to Harrisburg as 
soon as possible following his confirma­
tion.
Prof. Joseph's background and current 
capacity is that of a labor economist. He 
stated "I've been deeply involved in what 
may be called institutional labor economics
ving on a suspended license.
Larkins, 29, had been cooking at Theta 
Xi for almost eight years. His funeral was 
held last Friday in his hometown of 
Owings Mills, Maryland. Twelve Theta Xi 
brothers attended.
Mike Miller, President of Theta Xi, said 
that the brothers have not yet decided 
about hiring a new cook. "Right now, 
we're sharing the cooking," he said.
The brothers are writing a piece about 
Larkins which will be printed in next 
week's TARTAN.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
(Fade in music; B. Streisand humming ‘The Way We Were”)
When we were younger and more impressionable, those 
of us who went to co-ed high schools were used to seeing 
our classmates "making-out” in the hallways. Every few 
blocks there’d be necking, pecking and cross-checking 
going on, and it didn’t bother us. Sometimes, we even had 
to ask couples to move over a few inches so we could get to 
our lockers to put our books away. We were never shocked. 
We were never appalled. We accepted it.
Now here we are at Carnegie-Sterile University, and 
months go by without us ever seeing public acts of affec­
tion. It’s rare that students walk arm-in-arm, cheek-to- 
cheek, or even lab notebook-to-lab notebook. An out- 
in-the-open kiss or hug has to be qualified by a "we’re 
really just friends” definition. To top things off, we even 
wait for the lights to go out at the A.B. movies before we 
hold hands.
And when we do see two students enjoying each other's 
company, we turn bright red, we gulp, and we quicken our 
pace. Have we become prudes ?
The TARTAN, by the way, feels, beyond any doubt, that 
heavy love belongs behind dosed doors. We think it’s a pri­
vate thing, to be shared by two people, not a campus com­
munity. But we’re downright worried about the state of 
love on^ this campus. It looks like students have no spunk. 
Students are too interested in labs, projects, crew-work, 
and homework to take the time out to think about the 
opposite sex. It would be a warmer winter if we’d huddle 
closer together.
Well, the TARTAN is asking that tomorrow students 
show that they’re still alive, ambitious, and in-love: For 
Valentines Day, “tell your lover you love her*’ (or him) and 
do it so we all can see it. (But don’t overdo it....that’ll de­
feat the purpose.) And howsabout if administrators, at least 
tomorrow, take some time to show students that they love 
them? Blow us kisses....send us flowers....call us long dis­
tance.
Yes, tomorrow should be a day of love. But we don’t 
want every horny animal and his mate coming out of sticky 
closets to celebrate the holiday. We just want the sweet­
hearts on campus to show that they love each other. (We*re 
not asking for open molestation...just hand-holding, winks, 
smiles, and public statements.... "Oh dear, / think I’m madly 
in love with you!”)
Oh...young love...there’s nothing like it! (Except maybe 
younger love; the type we remember from high school.)
yje hope everyone has a love-ly day tomorrow.
—Jeffrey V.D. Zaslow 
Editor-in<hief
Note This and Act 
Editor:
As many of you may be aware, 
during the past few weeks the Stu­
dent Dorm Council has been 
circulating a petition which 
requests that the University act 
upon the following:
1) To allow for a reading period 
prior to Final exams in both 
the fall and spring semesters as 
follows:
a) Classes will end on the 
Thursday of the second full 
week in December and a read­
ing period established to run 
from Friday until the begin­
ning of exams the following 
Monday.
b) Final Exams will run Mon­
day thru Thursday of the third 
week in December.
c) Classes shall end on Thurs­
day of the first week in May 
followed by a reading period 
to run from the following 
day (Friday) until the follow­
ing Monday. Exams will run
from that Monday - Thursday.
2) Enrollment day and the first 
day of classes be seperate and 
consecutive week days with 
not less than eleven (11) week 
days off during Christmas 
break.
3) Final Exam schedules shall be 
available 30 days after the start 
of each term.
I met with President Cyert on 
Friday (Feb. 2nd) to discuss the 
petition and explain students' 
grievances with the current and 
proposed calendars. President 
Cyert, Dr. Schatz and I discussed 
the petition and the reasons be­
hind it. They agreed that what 
was asked for was perfectly rea- ’ 
sonable. The resultant effect being 
that all the provisions of the peti­
tion were incorporated into the 
calendar for next semester (with 
one exception to our benefit: that 
finals shall run from Monday 
through Friday, rather than 
Thursday).
This is significant in a couple
of ways: First, it appears that if 
the student body works together 
voicing its opinions through its 
representative bodies (the SDC 
and Senate) positive things do re­
sult. And I'd like to thank Senate 
for adding their support and 
jumping on the bandwagon with 
its Recommendation to Dr. 
Schatz. Secondly, that President 
Cyert is willing and even eager to 
listen to students (all you need do 
is make an appointment). In fact, 
he holds Open Forums several 
times a semester, when any stu­
dent may just show up and dis­
cuss just about anything he has on 
his mind. Advertisements and 
dates for these Forums appear in 
the TARTAN.
I encourage all to take advan­
tage of this and- to voice their 
gripes and grievances through the 
Student Dorm Council and 
Student Senate. After all, that's 
what they're for.
John J. Alexander 
Vice Pres Student Dorm Council
TARTAN¦ : — > * '
Volume 79February 13, 1979Number 21
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors.Jean Pellägrini 
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
? -FOLIO Editor:K. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner 
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
Production Managers:Neil Adler 
John Qualley
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features Editor:Leslie Weiser
Assistant Nows Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication, f unded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578— 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
HAPPY-D!
“It was 10:21, classes had just let out, and the hallways 
were crowded. At first, I wasn’t sure just what they were 
doing, but then it became obvious...too obvious. They were 
‘going-at-it’ right there between classes! And I mean really 
going at it, oblivious to those of us walking by. I stopped 
to watch them as they grappled against the bricks. Then, 
as soon as they saw me staring at them, they broke apart.. 
He sauntered up the hall, and she headed down the steps 
to the Bookstore.”
-A CMU STUDENT 
(The statement above 
is part of a series of tape- 
recorded interviews the 
TARTAN conducted 
for this editorial.)

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
One For My Brother....
Editor:
This is in response to last week's 
letter "Woe be Today's Fresh-
II.man .
Is that all you have to do with 
your valuable time - interrogate 
Freshmen? They don't need a bo­
dyguard - maybe some academic 
assistanct but not a bodyguard. 
Leave them alone, they're doing 
fine.
I too am a senior law student 
that is - at Dusquesne University 
School of Law. My brother, Brian, 
is a Freshman Engineering student 
at CMU. For the first time in my 
brother's educational "career" he 
is doing some real honest-to-good- 
ness studying. No he hasn't given 
up eating or sleeping, and he even 
goes out on weekends.
If you're really worried about 
CMU's image look your own v 
classmates over. After all, they set 
the prime example, don't they?
Sharon Profeta 
p.s. My brother would have re­
plied, but he's busy studying.
.... And From a Freshman
Editor:
In response to the "concerned 
senior" who stated in the TAR- 
TAN-of 2/6/79 that freshmen nev- 
ver, I repeat, NEVER study:
It is clear to me, Mr. LaSalle, 
that you have rarely, if ever, visit­
ed the freshmen drafting rooms 
for the Department of Architec­
ture, located in 1300 and 1308 
Doherty Hall. If you had, your 
letter would be greatly modified. I 
speak for architects because I am 
one, and I stayed up all night on 
Wednesday night, EVERY WED­
NESDAY, from approximately 
mid-October until the end of the 
fall term, when I and about 75 
other freshmen architects were up 
for a grand total of 72 hours each. 
That's three days of virtually non­
stop work on four projects, all 
due the same day. No, we don't 
wait until the last minute. We 
think and research and rethink' 
our designs and projects before we 
do them, all in addition to our re­
gular classes.
I cannot speak for other breeds 
I of freshmen, however, those I 
I know who are in other majors do 
I a great deal of work, from H&SS 
I to Engineering to Design.
A member of the “Pitt Tartans”
Senior Banquet
I Editor:
We would like to extend our 
I sincerest thanks to all that helped 
I in making the Senior Banquet a 
I successful event. Special thanks 
I go out to the Senior Banquet 
I Committee and Catering for
¦ providing a beautiful evening.
We would also like to invite
¦ any suggestions on how the Senior 
I Banquet might be improved. 
I While you might not see the 
I benefits of those suggestions you 
rl make, your underclassmen friends 
A may profit from the improve-
I ments made through your re-
¦ commendations. Please address all
¦ suggestions to:
The Senior Banquet Committee 
c/o The Alumni Office 
5th Floor, Warner Hall
Lisa Sarubin
• Forry Weatherby 
Chairpeople of Senior Banquet
Give Us Only Poetry Please
Editor:
This is in response to last 
week's letter from Samuel Hazo.
"It is a forum for all that is 
poetic in conception, and this 
transcends mere verse and 
necessarily includes all forms of 
poetic expression, music 
included. ”
Samuel Hazo 
International Poetry Forum
In this day of hucksters, 
hokum, and ad men where can 
you hear a poet read respectable 
poetry? Why not at a place 
named the poetry forum? Well, it 
seems the words aren't enough 
these days. We have to have a 
drummer hide the beat of the 
poem (or give it one), give us 
some flash, and zip the poet into 
minirocker: feedback on the
spondees, fuzz out the iambs, a 
light show a la Joshua 1967, and 
maybe even the poet throwing 
manuscripts to the audience after 
the climactic stanza.
I will make this statement: If 
you have to add anything to the 
words it isn't poetry. It may 
appear poetic as a line by Barry 
Manilow or Rod McKuen might 
appear poetic but poetry it isn't.
Where will the money go? The 
International Poetry Forum gets a 
fairly large budget to advance the 
state of poetry and poets. Some­
times they even schedule poetry 
readings, although they tend to 
like mini theater, jazz back­
grounds, and 'mellow stuff to 
hide the quality of the writing 
being passed off.
The answer seems to be to 
concentrate on the poetry and 
leave "all that is poetic in con­
ception" to the commercial 
world. When must we exceed our 
words? When can we give our­
selves up to our words?
But if the forum is going the 
other way I know a bunch of guys 
who like to get absolutely 
smashed at a bar and recite lim­
ericks while a jukebox hammers 
out Merle Haggard ballads and 
Willie Nelson hymns in the back­
ground. They would probably 
perform for the beer but would 
gladly accept cash payment.
I'll agree with Joan Livitski on 
this subject and attend poetry 
readings. The other people can 
have the- trimmings--we'll eat 
meat.
William Boggs
Consider the Gray 
Editor:
Two recent articles in "Views", 
Innocence Shall Be No More 
and Where Do We Go From Here, 
were, for me, profoundly dis­
turbing. The writer of those 
articles, whoever he or she is, 
makes too many sweeping over­
generalizations and too many 
skewed and polarized statements 
to be ignored. I do not doubt that 
the writer of those articles is 
Black, although all of his (or her, 
I will use male for convenience) 
views could be found between 
the covers of various popular 
publications. I do doubt that he 
is a valid spokesman for the Black 
community. He obviously has 
thought long, but no hard. His 
statements draw heavily on polar­
ized thinking that all people, and
all ideas come to two varieties- 
white & black. Reality is more 
often composed of various shades 
of gray. He seems to feel that all 
bad comes from the White com­
munity--the army, guns, taxes, ha­
tred, oppression. And conversely, 
that all good; sympathy, justice, 
openness, and wisdom come from 
the Black Community. I can re­
call many conversations with 
folks (who unless I went blind 
long ago) were Black, defending 
the U.S. Military, the need to 
bear arms, the unfortunate need 
for taxes and more unfortunately 
the hatred of Whites in my 
neighborhood.
I suppose several of the Pen­
tagon Chief-of-Staff regualrly rub 
shoe poiish on their faces to 
maintain an "image" of Black 
presence. And of course there is 
no such thing as a rich Black 
mobster. The fact is Black pres­
ence is everywhere. There are not 
two Americas, one Black, one 
White. America, good and bad, 
was built by both, occupied by 
both, and will remain in the 
possession of both. Blacks have 
not received full credit for their 
contribution to U.S. history. Nor 
are Blacks accepted as equals by a 
vast number of "other Ameri­
cans". But, there has been con­
siderable progress in past years.
I look forward to the future 
with hope, not dread. Hope that 
the many problems and barriers 
confronting Blacks will cease to 
exist. Legislators are far from 
perfect. Law officers are far 
from perfect. All of us, as people, 
are far from perfect. In fact, 
there is so much "imperfection" 
at work that progress comes 
painfully slow, riddled with fail­
ures and full of injustices. To this 
extent I agree with the mystery 
writer. More must be done by 
plain ordinary citizens (White, 
Black and Other) to speed the 
stumbling governmental efforts. 
However, I cannot agree with his 
style. Perhaps someday he will 
look past his own myopic, some­
what paranoid views to see 
gray realities and become part 
of a solution and not merely a 
noisy, angry problem.
Chris Fostel 
IA 1978 
ME 1973
The Other Side of the Fence 
Editor:
This is a response to "ELMS's" 
tribute to marijuana consumption. 
While agreeing that peer pres­
sure is not the sole reason for 
getting high (I've know some 
pretty wasted misanthropes), I 
must object to the religious 
praise of it. I, too, consumed 
medium to large quantities of pot, 
nearly daily for 5 years. A few 
months ago, I quit smoking be­
cause 1 decided that it created 
motivational problems.
The act of self-induced eu­
phoria is very complex. On the 
most basic level, it means pro­
viding positive reinforcement for 
getting high. This reinforcement 
may include euphoria, relaxation, 
enhanced perception, and escape. 
On another level, it allows the 
user to establish a distance from 
his emotions and experience them 
from a more distant and objec­
tive viewpoint, .
All this is very pleasant, but 
there is one thing wrong that 
nearly everyone overlooks: it is 
too easy. In this drug-oriented 
society, consumers are encouraged 
to escape from tension by
drinking, smoking, taking tran­
quilizers, watching TV, and other 
readily accessible escapes. To
relax without these things requires 
a conscious effort. Breathing 
deeply and slowly and forcibly 
clearing one's mind from the 
day's trials is a bit difficult some­
times. Why not simply "get
toasted" and let the chemicals 
do the dirty work for you?
Why not, indeed. This is an 
ass-backwards solution to your 
problems. They aren't inside your 
head, they are outside Getting 
high to escape them is like pull­
ing a bag over your head so you 
can't see the cracks in the wall. 
And while you're so comfortable 
and intimate with yourself in 
there, maybe there's someone 
who wants to communicate with 
you on a personal level. Will 
you come out of your hazy 
euphoria to listen? Experience 
tells me no.
Are you confusing patience 
with obliviousness? The world is a 
peaceful place indeed when you 
can get high, turn on your favorite 
music, and let your mind wander 
where it will. What you don't 
realize at the time is that you 
can't get something for nothing; 
your perceptions will be dulled 
by the amount they were shar­
pened when you come down. 
In the long run, the cost of 
escaping the uncomfortable parts 
of life this way is missing out on 
the most beautiful parts.
So, if you value this self- 
serving pleasure more than any­
thing else, party on. I just hope 
that no one ever needs you 
more than you need to get high. 
Things are lonely enough al­
ready.
Name withheld upon request
Pitt Can Never be CMU! 
Editor:
In recent weeks there has been 
a good deal of discussion concern­
ing the quality of education which 
is being offered to us as students 
of Carnegie-Mellon University. 
The point has been introduced 
that we graduate from this insti­
tution with no more skills than an 
individual who receives his degree 
from the University of Pittsburgh, 
which has in its favor a consider­
ably lower rate of tuition. It is my 
opinion that this is a fallacy.
The superiority of the classes 
and professors at Carnegie-Mellon 
renders the University of Pitts­
burgh at a junior high school 
level by comparison. Of course 
everyone may not be intelligent 
enough to be able to cope with 
the intensive academic atmos­
phere which exists at CMU. For 
this reason, establishments such 
as Pitt, must be allowed to contin­
ue operation, so that the plebes, 
poor, and the ignorant may gain 
at least some sort of education.
My complaint lies in the fact 
that students from CMU are al­
lowed to cross-register at Pitt, and 
partake of their substandard pro­
grams. Then, if this slap in the 
face is not enough, they receive 
credit for these pseudo courses,
and have the Pitt grades appear 
on their transcripts as if the per­
son could have really learned 
something from their trip down 
Forbes Avenue. This is an easy 
way for those of us at CMU who 
have both low QPAs and moral 
standards to at least increase one 
of the above mentioned.
If this practice continues, it 
will surely become a black mark 
in terms of the reputation of Car* 
negje-Mellon University. I sincere­
ly urge President Cyert to review 
this situation, and end the barbar­
ic practice of cross registration 
with the University of Pittsburgh.
Respectfully submitted, 
S. Joseph
Sidewalks are for People
Editor:
I would like to make a request 
to the administration. Get the 
mail-car off of the sidewalks. It is 
obnoxious, unnecessary and dan­
gerous. This small, white automo­
bile has forced me off of the 
sidewalk more than once simply 
because the two people riding in 
the otherwise empty car desired 
to take a shortcut. Dear Mr. Post­
man, put it on the road or park it 
... Now!
S. Kenneth Hirshmugl 
Mental Fracture
Editor:
As a sophmore Civil Engineer 
I am inclined to see things from a 
structural point of view, and as 
of late I have noticed some inter­
esting analogies between materials 
science and student psychology.
When school began in Septem­
ber, the weather was pleasant, 
students were fresh, and every­
thing was peachy. Students were 
tolerant of large work loads and 
tedious assignments. In general 
the student body had a flexible 
ductile outlook toward school.
As time wore on, temperatures 
fell and the average student's 
transition temperature was passe 1. 
This decreased the AUkA of duc­
tility and students became more 
brittle. Tensions mounted and 
tolerance all but disappeared.
I can conclude only one thing 
from these observations. We 
(CMU students) are in a very 
precarious position. If summer 
doesn't arrive soon we are in con­
stant danger of undergoing brittle 
fracture. Since we can't change 
the weather, we must band to­
gether and fight the recent up­
surge of homework. I for one am 
cutting down on my study time 
and if we all band together, 
perhaps we can combat one of 
the students' gravest problems-- 
Brittle fracture.
Ollie
sssssssssssssssssssssss
The TARTAN welcomes letters- 
to-the-editor from the entire 
campus community. The letters 
should be signed and cannot be 
printed otherwise. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Mail let­
ters to Box 17, campus mail, or 
drop them off at the offices of 
the TARTAN in Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-TARTAN-February 13, 1979
University Graphics Undergoes Changes
by Linda Kucan
Literature from the Admissions Office 
calls CMU “the Professional Choice”, and 
opportuntites for developing professional 
expertise are really here. University Gra­
phics is a case in point.
There was a “Poster Era” at CMU , the 
likes of which will never be seen again. The 
Activities Board had the budget, designers 
and illustrators had the imagination and 
freedom, and any place on campus was 
open territory. The posters were every­
where and so was the University Graphics’ 
logo. There were posters for movies, speak­
ers, and concerts. Some became almost 
legendary and are still hanging on the walls 
of student apartments and dormitories. “It 
was a great ‘ego trip’ to see your work all 
over the campus and to hear people talking 
about it. But those days are practically 
over now”. Brian Jones, executive art di­
rector of UG, talked about the change and 
pointed to decreased budgets and the 
ruling limiting posters to bulletin boards as 
contributing factors.
According to Jones, UG is undergoing a 
fundamental process of change.-There are 
still posters to be designed, and the uni­
versity departments and organizations con­
tinue to be steady customers, but the jobs 
have become more diversified. The clien­
tele is growing, and there are more off-cam­
pus accounts. Brochures, business forms, 
stationary, letterheads, logos, and business 
cards are becoming more common pro­
jects. The shift in emphasis has forced 
UG to re-evaluate its position.
“We’re in a new office,” commented 
Jones,4’ and we’re designing new station­
ary, job jackets, and promotional literature 
but there’s more to the change than just 
these externals. We have a grant to work on 
improving our organization and we’re try­
ing to see if this whole enterprise is viable. 
We have to know if there can be enough 
momentum generated by students to make 
this business really work.”
Jones has expanded his organization to 
include four other staff members. George 
Bowen handles the financial aspects as
XX
executive business manager, and Ricki 
Hellner, Bruce Meader, and Edna Stern are 
art directors.
As jobs are recieved, they are described 
on a job form and posted on the door of 
the UG office — Room 200 Skibo. Stu­
dents who want to do a job, contact one of 
the staff and submit sketches. The oppor­
tunity to deal with a client, work up a 
piece, see it through production, fulfill 
contract obligations dealing with cost and 
deadlines is a learning experience that can’t 
be duplicated. Clients don’t give “incom- 
pletes”, and missing a deadline can kill an 
entire project. You’re in a professional situ­
ation, not a classroom, and the reputation 
of UG as well as your own is on the line.
UG art director and junior design stu­
dent Edna Stern talked about working for 
UG. “A lot of students are amazed that 
I’ve already got portfolio pieces. Many 
seem to think that senior year is the time 
to get a portfolio together. I worked in an 
ad agency during the summer and the prac­
tical experience was something I didn’t 
want to forget about. By working at UG, 
I’m learning a lot by actually doing jobs, 
and my experience and portfolio pieces are 
tangible assets.”
Last year, two design students working 
on jobs for UG recieved awards from the 
National Entertainment and Campus Acti­
vities Association. The committee selected 
ten outstanding pieces used to promote 
campus programs from colleges and univer­
sities throughout the country.
Students'who are motivated enough to
“Hustle” can expect to find what they’re 
looking for at UG. The jobs are posted, but 
you have to get to the door of Room 200 
to find out what they are. Anyone can sub­
mit sketches. The art directors make the 
preliminary selections, but the client has 
the final option. After a design is chosen, 
the student designer works with an art di­
rector to meet specifications. The mecha­
nical produced will be refined by the art 
director. Additional work, such as enlarge­
ments, reversals, and screens, and the final 
proof are the responcibilities of the pro­
ject director. The designer receives a per­
centage of the fee charged to the client and 
he has the printed piece as an example of 
what he can actually do.
Designers are not the only student who 
can work through UG. Photographers and 
illustrators, creative and technical writers,
students in business and graphic communi­
cation management programs are becoming 
involved as the base of operations contin­
ues to expand. Getting a job done, satis­
fying a client, and achieving the goals you 
set for yourself, are satisfying experiences. 
Studerits who want the opportunity can 
find it.
For some students, contact with UG 
may come through their resume services. 
The spring semester is an important one for 
graduating seniors. Ricki Hellner deals with 
resume preparation and coordinates the 
typesetting process. She is in Room 200 on
¦ Mondays and Tuesdays from 12:00 to 
1:00, and on Fridays from 1:00 to 2:00.
The phone rings; the jobs go up. Uni­
versity Graphics is a busy place, and there 
may be something for you.
8 Mini-courses Offered
Campus Programming is sponsoring 
eight mini-courses for students and the 
campus community. These courses range 
from exercising and dancing to art appre­
ciation and photography. A week-long 
course in CPR will also allow certification 
by the Red Cross and Heart Association.
Most of the courses meet weekly 
starting the week of February 19. You can 
register for courses at the Skibo Infor­
mation desk.
Disco Dancing
Instructors: Jim Foster & Julie Somma
Mech.E.Head Prospects Good
by Patricia Petry
"There is no shortage of candidates 
interested in the position." This statement 
came from Dr. A. G. Jordan, chairman of 
the Mechanical Engineering Search Com­
mittee. Through the utilization of solicita­
tion letters to the heads and deans of top 
ranking mechanical engineering and en­
gineering colleges, advertisements in pro- 
3tK
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
$0500W A PAIR
HARD LENSES 
$ 5500A PAIR
Price includes orientation, insertion and removal training, complete care-kit and 
carrying case.
The fitting fee will include a spectacle lens prescription and on examination for 
the fitting of contact lenses by Dr. Palmieri. If any changes should occur in the fit or 
prescription within 90 days from the date you receive your lenses we will modify or 
exchange as many lenses as necessary ro to give you the proper fit, vision and com­
fort. In many cases you will be able to wear your contacts home on your initial visit 
with us. A 2 week follow up visit is scheduled for every patient.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL
DR. D. A. PALMIERI
OPTOMETRIST
RT. 19N. WEXFORD, PA.
(NEXT TO STEEL CITY)
935-5761
Member
| American Optometric Association
»Kg
fessional magazines, and contacts with 
colleagues, the committee has received 
a large number of applications. Out of this 
group, twenty applications of viable 
candidates with excellent credentials have 
been selected. Three candidates have been 
interviewed with three or four more inter­
views forthcoming. Dr. Jordan stated, 
"We are confident that we can produce 
and induce an outstanding department 
head."
The committee also stated that any 
student input will be welcomed at this 
stage. Interested persons should contact 
either Dr. Jordan (Head, EE) or any of the . 
following committee members: Dr. Sinclair 
(Mech. E), Dr. Rubin (Mech E), Dr. Os- 
terle (Mech E), and Dr. Sekerka (MMS).
Day & Time: Wednesday, 7:00 PM 
Location: Thistle Hall 
Fee: $ 1.00 registration fee 
It's not as difficult as you* may think! 
Learn some of the latest moves and beauti­
ful maneuvers that you've seen on the 
dance floor. Anyone can do it.
Self-defense
Instructor: Curtis Smith 
Day & Time: Monday, 5:30 PM 
Location: Skibo Hall 
Fee: Students: $5.00 Staff: $10.00
Now is the time to learn some fundamental 
moves to protect yourself against a physi­
cal attack. Open to both men and women, 
course will be taught by a black belt 
Karate expert and certified police trainer. 
Shape up for Spring — Exercise 
Instructor: Connie Bayles 
Day & Time: Tuesday, 5:30 PM 
Location: TBA 
Fee: $1.00 registration fee 
Work off the winter sluggishness. Learn the 
fundamentals of running, stretching and 
general body tone-up; start getting that 
body ready to withstand finals, spring fever 
and that first day on the courts and track. 
If you don't do it now, will you ever find 
time to work out on your own?
Yoga for enjoyment 
Instructor: Lorraine Caputo 
Day & Time: Tuesday, 7:00 PM 
Location: TBA 
Fee: $ 1.00 registration fee
continued on page 20
EVENING & SATURDAY APPOINTMENTS AVAILABLE
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
& RETAKESSIGNUPS
All THIS week at Skibo Infor­
mation Desk. Pictures will be taken 
week of February 19.
Whe nwryoughya dgmmrhoya ywiiryoughya gp dpuouduymy sbgwo l,,t fc-"k”c.

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 5
dsEE ovr l,,t fc-"k”c tk-c”’,-Sf N,’CkUc­ IAqAjT Bgh'se H?mR^?m
Applications Available for Year in Switzerland
International education always sounds 
great for students in majors like foreign 
languages, history, political science, and 
the fine arts. Here at CMU, though, the 
opportunity to a year of study abroad is 
wide open to all Engineers and Applied 
Scientists. For a change, it’s the technolo­
gists who are being given a real chance to 
pick up on humanities through study in 
a foreign nation.
CMU has a standing agreement with the 
Federal Institute of Technology in Lau­
sanne, Switzerland, to exchange a number 
of science and engineering students each 
year. Students spend nine to twelve 
months in Switzerland and cover two full
semesters of studies, completing CMU’s 
own requirements for the junior year. 
Currently, six students (five men, one 
woman; two MechE’s, two ChemE’s, and 
two MMS-er’s) are in Lausanne and eight of 
this year’s seniors have completed their 
junior years in Switzerland. The program 
is reciporcal: there are nine students from 
the Federal Institute currently enrolled 
in CIT and MIS.
The details of the program are simple: 
interested freshmen go through the appli­
cation process in their second semester 
(application forms, interview with the 
CMU coordinator of the program, meetings 
with feturned participants), and decisions 
on acceptance are made before the end of
the spring semester. Accepted students do 
a normal sophomore year, including 
French courses, and are then enrolled at 
the Federal Institute for their Junior 
year (always remaining a full-time student 
at CMU). After the year in Switzerland, 
students do their senior year here and 
graduate in May. Overload is not reauired.
but can be helpful, especially to pick up 
as much French as possible during the 
sophomore year.
The ' Federal Institute of Technology 
(L’Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lau­
sanne, EPFL) is one of Switzerland’s two 
federal engineering schools. It is recognized 
as one of Europe's finest polytechnical
institutions. Lausanne (population: 
300,000) is located in the French-speaking 
region of Switzerland, is the country’s 
fifth largest city, and commands an un­
believably beautiful view of the Lake of 
Geneva and the Savoie Alps. Geneva, 
famous as an international city as well 
as a capital of culture and business, is 
forty miles away; a thirty-minute ride on 
the rapid “train interville.”
Applications for interested freshman are 
available through the office of the pro­
gram coordinator, Dr. C.L. Bauer. Call 
extension 2676, or stop by Science Hall 
4321 and see Megan. Orientation meet­
ings will be set up shortly.
No One Show at Budget Hearing
by Jeanette Bryan
On Sunday, February 4 at 4:00 PM, the 
Student Senate Finance Committee held an 
open forum for students to come and 
express their opinions toward the sub­
sidies allotted their organizations. The 
senate feels that students deserve a chance 
to remark on the budgeting of their 
activities fees mbney that is distributed 
among the various clubs.
Upon a proposal made last year at a 
Senate meeting, the Budget Reform 
Committee was established to investigate 
and improve the budgeting procedures. 
Holding an open hearing budget meeting 
was the first action taken to reorganize the 
system. Mary Ann Lawton, chairperson of 
the Finance Committee, sat waiting for 
earnest suggestions from students from 
4:00 to 5:30 PM in Skibo, Room 12. 
Unfortunately, no club members found it 
necessary to voice their opinions.
At the beginning of the semester the 
Senate had nearly $30,000 in unallocated
CIT Art Funded
by Stanley J. Cieslak
CIT has been awarded a grant from the 
'Engineering Student Art Loan Fund," 
which will be used to give students access 
to original art works.
Established by engineer Erhardt C. 
Koerper, the nation-wide fund encour­
ages engineering students to involve them­
selves with fine works of art. The existing 
fund will help assemble a collection of 
original art works from which students can 
borrow or rent at a nominal fee a work 
for a semester or year. Students could 
then display the work in their room or 
apartment.
^ An "Engineering Student Art Ac­
quisition Committee" is being formed of 
students in each CIT department. Headed 
by Irving J. Oppenheim, professor of 
Chemical Engineering, the committee will 
act with faculty from the Art Department 
in selecting art works for purchase. Oppen­
heim stated that similar programs have 
been successful at other engineering 
schools.
It is likely that part of the grant will be 
used to purchase student works from the 
College of Fine Arts exhibit in April.
H any CIT student is interested in being 
on the acquisition committee or have 
questions about the program, contact 
Oppenheim at 578-2950 before the end of 
the month.
funds from last year. So far $18,000 has 
been reserved to cover the cost of WRCT's 
new antenna. The TARTAN is claiming 
$6,000 of the $12,000 left from that, and 
AB has been allocated $2,000. About 
another $1,000 has been alloted to small 
clubs. The rest of the money will be used 
throughout the semester to fund additional 
requests for this year's budgets.
Five of the eight clubs that had not 
submitted budgets as of last week have not 
been scheduled. The three clubs that have 
not submitted budgets yet (Volleyball, 
Kiltie Band, Radio) should contact Mary 
Ann Lawton as soon as possible.
The committee met Wednesday with 
WRCT to discuss their budget funds. The 
hearing submitted was only slightly 
altered and passed. Thursday the 
committee heard from the"TARTAN and 
Peer Help. Their budgets were set quite 
easily also. The budgets still must be 
approved by Student Senate.
On Sunday at 2:00 in Room 12, AB 
meets for an interesting hearing. A follow 
up of that meeting will be in the next issue.
Recent Budgets Submitted
Senate Budget Committee members read over one ot the proposed organization budgets.
Budget Situation
Hockey$6,365
SAE$ 235
LAW$ 490
Ski Club$ 130
Baseball$3,535
Mortar board$ 215
Overall subsidies requested$143,903
* Fall budgets (estimate '79)$ 9,700
Reserve (to cover losses)$ 8,700
** Contingency$ 10,000
Total$172,303
Projected income (estimate '79)$145,000
Above cost$172,303
Debt expected$ 27,303
* Unsubmitted subsidies (estimate )$ 1,700
Total debt expected$ 29,003
* assuming no increase in requests
** money left over from clubs and activities fees from last year
FRESHMEN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS
Three-year AFROTC scholarships valued in ex­
cess of $15,000 are now available to qualified 
CMU students. Applications are now being ac­
cepted and you may apply without obligation.
In return tor this financial assistance the Air 
Force requires a minimum of four years service 
as an Air Force officer after graduation. This 
commitment is not incurred until you accept the 
scholarship next September.
/¿wri jìTOrarare
Why not join more than twenty-five other CMU 
students on ROTC scholarships. ROTC classes 
are taken at Pitt by cross-registration. These 
classes re small in size, presenting each student 
with the opportunity for participation. Subjects 
include the History of Air Power, Organization 
of the Air Force, Leadership and Management, 
and American Defense Policy.
Lt. Col Warren invites inquiries by phone or per­
sonal visits. Our offices are located on the 29th 
fir of the Cathedral of Learning. Call today for 
an appointment, 624-6396.
ROTC
Gateway to o great way of life.
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Paqe 6—TARTAN—February 13, 1979'¦w* **9 ? ? ir* -
Toor Reflects on Term as CIT Dean
Editor’s Note: The following article is 
an excerpt of a recent interview with Dean 
Herbert Toor of CIT. Toor speaks frankly 
about the state of the college when he 
became dean and some of the steps he had 
to take to keep the school alive.
When I became dean, engineering was 
in a slump. We had gone through the 
sixties, and education in general was 
fat and happy. There was lots of money 
around, it had been increasing. The federal 
government had been putting a lot of 
money into science and engineering. The 
faculty, in general, were fat and lazy in­
cluding me. When I grew up, there was all 
the research, money I wanted. You wrote 
proposals and they'd give you money 
and you did what you liked and you had 
lots of fun doing them.
I became dean just when the bottom 
fell out of the whole thing. Mr. Nixon and 
the Office of Management and Budget 
started cutting back support. In particular, 
they cut back free graduate student train- 
eeships. There were a large number of them 
in CIT, and they all started disappearing 
at that time. At the same time, CMU was
"It seemed to me and my col­
leagues that if we didn't change, we 
might starve to death."
going in the red. Student numbers were 
falling, because engineering had gotten a 
bad name in the late sixties when the 
aerospace business fell apart. As a result, 
a change in government policy was brought 
about. So they, the the students turned 
away from engineering, counterculture was 
on, kids were moving into other things. 
Engineers were looked down upon, and it 
looked to me and a number of other peo­
ple that we could fall flat on our face.
Things were really scared. Research 
money was down, graduate students were 
down, graduate student support was
down. The university was running out of 
money; they couldn't bail us out. The 
faculty, and me and everybody else, had 
gotten used to being supported. The
general view was that the world owed 
us a living. It seemed to me and my col- 
legues that if we didn't change, we might 
starve to death. If we weren't able to do 
something about the graduate program,
we would have gone out of business.
If that had occurred, the good faculty 
would leave. Faculty get turned on by 
doing research as well as teaching, and 
good faculty won't stay around without 
an active research program. So the place 
was really faced with a future which could 
have taken it to a real disaster.
The first thing was to turn around 
that income picture. I remember going 
with Bill Gauss, who was the associate dean, 
to talk with CIT faculty. We put the 
facts in front of them, and said unless we 
could go out and raise the money to 
support our own research, and our grad­
uate students, we were going to be in 
serious difficulty. The faculty said yes, and 
turned around and -started producing 
proposals-beating the bushes--and indeed, 
the research level, which was about SI.8 
million a year at that time, was $6 million 
last year. And that essencially turned the 
whole system around, because it replaced 
the money which had been taken away, so 
that we could support graduate students 
and support research. It paid for research 
that the University had to pay for before 
but couldn't anymore, and recovered that
part of it. It also gave us enough funds 
to give people some salary increases and 
keep the place alive.
The style of research in the sixties 
used to be engineers did science-a sort of 
pseudo-science, because...that's the way 
the world was at that time; that was the 
style of what they were doing, and it 
was easier to get money for that kind of 
research. The funds were available, and in 
some ways it's more fun to do things that 
are farther away form the market place 
and from thé real world than otherwise. 
Another thing we had to convince the 
faculty is that there's a lot more to the 
world than just that kind of research, 
that there were other interesting things to 
do that were intellectually challenging, 
that were fun, and that were fundable. 
That occurred also, so a lot of new kinds 
of activities started in addition to the 
classic, traditional disciplinary kind of 
research.
That required, also, busting cfown the 
barriers between departments. Tradition­
ally what happens is departments build 
little walls around themselves, and do their 
own thing and don't talk to anybody 
else. That's another dangerous syndrome. 
So the other thing we were doing at the 
time was to try to get activities going 
which would cut across departments. 
Breaking down those barriers-using carrots 
and sticks to get people not to sandbag 
any acitivty. This is just talking at the 
graduate level.
We got activities going which really 
couldn't be done in thé old contest. The 
system was loosened up. We set up things 
like, for example, a committee that could 
bust down the departmental cartels.
"Traditionally what happens is de­
partments build little walls around 
themselves, and do their own thing 
and don't talk to anybody else."
Departments could really write the ground 
rules for a student to get a graduate degree, 
and they could write it completely re­
strictive if they wanted to. We set up this 
system which said: 'Fine, you can do that, 
but a student can bypass your system if 
he goes through this special committee,' 
sq that loosened the whole system up. 
That allowed students who wanted to do 
interesting things but couldn't because of 
the inherent disciplinary constraints that 
grew up among departments.
In doing that, we set up a number of 
new kinds of programs, because there are 
just interesting things to be done that 
didn t fit into the rather constrained 
system we had before. It was essentially 
loosening and opening up the system, 
which has to be done periodically. The 
inherent second law says that eventually, 
everything goes to some kind of con­
strained state, and the University is always 
moving towards that state. If you allow 
the disciplines to take over, you just end 
up with disaster, because they stop inter­
acting with the real world where the real 
problems come from and they start playing 
games, and they're not doing anything 
interesting anymore.
We ve got to have these disciplinary 
guides, and we have to have people that are 
really good. And there are really just first- 
rate people around here But at the same 
time you've got to have people around 
who are sensitive to where the problems 
are coming from if you're going to have an 
engineering school. And that was really
one of the issues which I think we 
completely succeeded in.
I wanted to increase the amount of 
research supported by industry, because 
that would bring more realistic problems 
into the institution. We had a fair amount 
of support and effort in that activity, but 
it really has not been a great success. We 
do not have any more industrial support 
in research now than we did five or ten 
years ago as a percentage it hasn't 
changed. We might have a little more 
absolutely, but we have much more govern­
ment supported research. It's still more 
applied because we have more mission- 
oriented research than National Science 
Foundation oriented research.
At the undergraduate level, we didn't* 
open it up quite as much, although we 
explored it. The big pushes were two 
things: the Analysis, Synthesis and
Evalution sequence, which really brought 
the original Carnegie Plan ideas--the ideas 
of Dick Teer and his colleagues-in problem 
solving to all the students in CIT. We now 
make all students face up to that early in 
their career a course in problem solving 
which doesn't try to teach new material. 
Those ideas have been around for a long 
time.
One of the things that also happened in 
the sixties is engineering got more sciency -
I won't necessarily say more scientific but 
more sciency. Applied material dis­
appeared. I remember when I was dean 
for just a year or two, meeting with some 
seniors in EE. I remember them saying, 
"We've spent four years here and we've 
seen all this mathematics, and we don't 
know what the hell any of these things 
look like that we know how to design. 
We'd like to see some. "The curriculum 
was much too theoreticall; students 
frequently say that. But it was true that 
we got a lot more science into the 
curriculum by the end of the sixties than 
we had earlier and probably did as we 
did with the graduate level -overshot.
As a balance to that, one doesn't 
want to teach technology, I mean that's 
not a very good education to sit kids 
down and tell people how things are done 
right now, because by the time they go out 
to do it, it's all been changed anyway. But 
the danger is if you give a lot of 
scientific material, that the talents that 
people come the University with are gone 
by the time they leave. They lose any 
creativity they lose any feel that they 
can solve a problem without having a lot 
of detailed, specific information. ASE 
courses say, "Hey with simple tools, you' 
can do a >ot.M If you're creative and 
original, you can really invent things. So 
that was an attempt in that direction. 
The data isn't all in yet as to how 
successful that is.
The other changes in the undergraduate 
level really come from the faculty. I think 
we ve got brighter, more innovative, 
livelier faculty now than we ve had, partly 
because of the changes that took place 
that I've described, partly as you get 
better, you get better faculty and attract 
better people. And the departments are 
a lot stronger now than they were. The 
institution as a whole and the engineering 
school as a whole have been continually 
improving. We've just been able to hire 
better people, and therefore, just given 
time, were improving the quality of the 
faculty. And that has an effect on the 
undergraduate level which one has to
- vnii JisSL i¦BHH1
Dean Herbert Toor saw that changes had to be 
made to save CIT in the late sixties.
believe is positive.
The other thing we did was essentially 
fo say: look, one of the real failings in our 
curriculum- in all engineering curriculum-- 
is that we take the engineering student, 
who is going to really follow a very strict 
curriculum with a lot of science and 
technology and say "O.K. You've got 
to spend twenty percent of your time 
doing Humanities and social studies 
because it's good for you." We mean, an 
education beyond the science and 
engineering. That sa non-insignificant part 
of the curriculum. As a matter of fact, 
it's much more than what most 
engineering schools do, and it's a hell of a 
lot more than most non-science and 
engineering colleges do to the students 
who are majoring in liberal arts areas in 
terms of engineering or science. In some 
ways you can argue that engineering and 
science students are the most broadly 
educated people.
The idea of trying to broaden the 
engineer is one that's been traditional 
at this place. The problem is how to make 
that twenty percent of the curriculum 
meaningful. It’s not easy to do that, and 
a lot of times it just goes past students.
• Engineers have traditionally been totally 
naive about how the world really works. 
Government policies are really playing a 
much larger role in engineering as it is 
practiced now. The naivity about that 
world is really becoming unbearable. And 
so we decided a while 'ago, in fact in the
"If you allow the disciplines to 
take over, you just end up with di­
saster, because they stop interacting 
with the real world where the real 
problems come from and they start 
playing games, and they're not doing 
anything interesting anymore."
sixties, that we had to do something about 
that.
We started the program in Engineering 
and Public Policy to really build the 
faculty who were engineers and involved 
in public policty issues, starting out in the 
obvious one, the environmental issue. The 
environmental issues are really a com­
bination of technology and regulation, 
and policy issues. We've been buildings 
faculty in that area very successfully, 
and eventually turned that into our 
sixth department The Engineering and 
Public Policy department. It has been 
very successful, it was the first one in 
the country and it is the lead depart 
ment in that area. 1.
continued on page 20
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
photo by Mark Segal

---------------------------------------------------

Sexual Health and Contraception
™™™tro/xfiti it \/n \\7itU fVtic cto tûmûnt Me ¦
HEUO,.- Acmo BÏETH CONTROL i
by Susan Borg
Birth Control, Pregnancy, and Abor­
tion, along with Sexual Health were this 
weeks topics for discussion in the ongoing 
Human Sexuality Program.
On Monday night Debbie Smith, the 
Director of Education at Planned Parent­
hood, returned to the Wherret Room to 
speak about Pregnancy, Birth Control 
and Abortion. She began by briefly out­
lining the symptoms of pregnancy at 
various times during the nine months. 
"You have to understand what happens 
during a pregnancy and how exactly you 
get pregnant if you want to fully under­
stand the ways you can prevent it," says 
Ms. Smith.
She spoke about the physical charac­
teristics, which include: tender breasts, 
vaginal discharge, fatigue, weight gain, 
and constipation, along with the psych­
ological reactions to pregnancy.
The body goes through a lot of changes 
during the 9 month term-it's no wonder 
you'd be tired and depressed, Smith said. 
It s after delivery, though, where most 
of the depression usually takes- place. 
Post Partum depression is no longer 
looked down upon by physicians," Ms. 
Smith states. Your body goes through 
nine months of relatively gradual changes. 
After delivery your body is back to normal 
within 2-4 weeks--"That's quite a shock 
to have to go through." All these chemical 
and hormonal changes can cause de­
pression.
Birth Control was next on the agenda. 
What methods do you people know of 
that don’t work?" was the first question. 
Answers from the audience included with­
drawal, the rhvthm method and various 
home remedy" type methods. Ms. 
Smith followed each with an explanation 
°f why this particular method didn't 
work. In the case of the rhythm method
she explained a newer, more scientific 
variation called the Cervical Mucus-Basal 
Body Temperature Method (CMBBT). 
This method is accepted by most reli­
gious groups because it does not use a 
barrier of any kind. This method entails 
abstinence from sexual intercourse during 
fertile periods.
How do you know when your fertile 
period is? You must work with a phys­
ician to learn how to know when your 
body is ovulating. You do this by sampling 
cervical mucus everyday and by judging 
the consistency. Different consistencies 
mean different things. You also must 
take your temperature regularly. A slightly 
higher temperature means that you are 
fertile.
"The main problem with this is that 
many couples don't abstain during their 
fertile period (7-10 days)", says Ms. 
Smith. This method is good because it 
really ’’puts you in touch with your 
body. It gets to the point where you can 
actually feel the different cycles in your 
system working. Many women practice 
this along with another method, just 
for this reason." The CMBBT method, 
obviously has no side affects.
Foams, creams, and jellies don't have 
side affects, either (except for an un­
usual allergy to the substance). These 
products are about 80% effective by 
themselves, and it is recommended that
trading VD. With this statement Ms. 
Smith unveiled an interesting statistic - 
women are the major buyers of condoms- 
not men. Men are often reluctant to use 
a condom, so it is up to the female to see 
that he does if necessary. With this in 
mind marketing and advertising of con­
doms is now being directed towards 
women.
The two methods with the lowest 
probability of pregnancy are the Intra­
uterine Device (IUD), and the Pill. The 
IUD is made out of a teflon type plastic. 
It is inserted into the uterus, by a doctor 
and it sits in the uterin cavity. It is not 
known exactly how the IUD works. It 
is thought, though, that the device causes 
sperm and egg not to implant in the 
uterus.
There are problems and potential 
dange.s with the use of an IUD. Firstly, 
it can come out without you knowing it- 
hence, pregnancy may result. There is also 
a possibility that it may imbed in the 
uterus. This can be serious and may require 
surgery. In addition to these potential 
dangers, an IUD sometimes causes cramp­
ing and extra long menstral periods. 
There is also an increase in Pelvic In- 
flamatory Disease (PID), which could 
result in sterility.
The Birth Control pill essentially 
"fakes out your body," says Smith. It 
stops ovulation and simulates pregnancy. 
There are different kinds of pills and it
Many women also object to handling 
their genital area which is absolutely 
necessary for inserting and withdrawing a 
diaphragm.
"I'm not going to tell you which is 
best-its a very personal matter. You must 
evaluate your own needs and decide 
what is best for you," said Smith. She 
stressed that you must use something if 
you are sexually active and don't want to 
get pregnant--"hope doesn't work."
Hope doesn't work for getting rid of 
VD either, says Jerry Manning of the 
Allegheny VD Center. VD is now a world 
wide epidemic which means that if you 
have more than one sexual partner your 
chances of contracting gonorrhea or 
syphilis, or herpes are high. Mr. Manning 
attributes the sky rocketing statistics to 
a more transient society, more sex at a 
younger age, and a lack of education. 
He noted the difficulty of setting up a 
formal program within school systems.
Contrary to popular belief VD is not a 
lower class problem. It is found on all 
levels of society. "You're as apt to get it 
from the guy next door or the girl next 
door as anyone else," Manning explained 
clarifying a belief that only prostitutes 
spread VD. "Prostitutes are probably the 
cleanest things in town--that's their bus­
iness.
Mr. Manning then showed a film that 
has "alot of garbage in it...We blame 
everything on the Indians in this coun-
is important to know what kind you are (Iy .. „ ^ ta Usting (he
taking~in case of any problems. The Pill 
is relatively inexpensive and very easy 
to use, but again there can be problems. 
Pills cause symptoms of early pregnancy, 
which are not always pleasant. In addi­
tion there is a high tendency to yeast 
infections--also not pleasant, and can be 
transmitted to a male partner. The Pill 
can cause high blood pressure and for this 
reason should not be used if you smoke
or, lack of them. If men nave VD they 
usually know it. In the case of syphilis 
a painless sore will appear on the penis. It 
will go away in a couple of weeks if left 
untreated, but the disease is still present. 
In gonorrhea, urination becomes painful 
and there will be a milky substance com­
ing out of the penis. Because of the pain 
or sore involved men usually see a phys­
ician. Women, though, do not experience
they be used with another method-such justice for all Americans. The Association 
as a condom. Used together the proba- was formed in 1909 by a group of black 
bility of becoming pregnant becomes as ancj white citizens, appalled at the injus- 
low as with the pill or IUD. . tices that some Americans suffered solely
A condom is not only a birth control because of their race. The Association has 
method, but also the only effective protec- grown steadily since then and is, today, the 
tion against Venereal Disease. Smith largest and most influential civil rights or- 
says that women should require their ganization in the country. The basic 
partners to use condoms if they have no strength of the NAACP derives from its 
other birth control method, and if she is historic victories in te courts. Congress, and 
worried about the possibility of con- state legislatures. To keep pace with the
(smoking also causes high blood pressure), any symptoms until late stages.
Women who have a history of blood dis- if a man is found to have VD it must be 
eases should not be taking the Pill. A very stressed that he reveal all his sexual con- 
thorough examination should always be tacts-male and female. A common mis 
administered before a doctor prescribes conception about VD is that gays cannot 
birth control pills. get the disease. The only wayr a woman
Magazines have recently been overflow- will know she has VD, in most cases, is if 
ing with articles about the return of she is told that she has been exposed, 
women to the old fashioned birth con- What happens if gonorrhea or syphilis 
trol method--the diaphragm. This is due to go untreated? The disease gradually attacks 
the fact that women are leary of the different parts of your body causing 
unknown future effects and possible blindness, deafness, arthritis, insanity, 
present dangers of pills and the IUD. sterility, etc. VD can be cured with anti- 
The diaphragm is a rubber cup-like device biotics. This is not the problem. The 
that is inserted into the vagina by the problem is that people are hesitant to get
woman, before intercourse. It rests a- treatment.
gainst the cervix and immobilizes sperm. If you suspect that you may have VD 
The diaphragm should always be used go get a blood test-free at most clinics,
with cream or jelly, just in case sperm Don't let it go. "It affects you psycholo-
manage to pass the barrier. The diaphragm gicaliy and plays havoc with your body," 
has no side affects (again excepting an stresses Manning. With this final warning 
allergy) and if used properly is as effective Manning finished his talk, 
as the pill or IUD. But there are incon- The final week of the Residence Life 
veniences. Many people object to insert- sponsored program holds lectures on 
ing a diaphragm and cream so close to Alternate Lifestyles, and New Issues: 
intercourse-it doesn't allow spontanaety. Test Tube Babies and Cloning.
Jtlack History Month
changing times, tfeTiXACPIias launched a 
number of dynamic social programs that 
are speeding its march toward victory over 
racial hatred, bigotry and poverty.
NAACP covers the country, in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, West Ger­
many and the Panama Canal Zone. The 
strength of the Association lies in its mem­
bers, organized into nearly 1700 branches, 
youth councils and college chapters. 
Augmenting this force are thousands of 
volunteers who carry the burden of the 
NAACP mission.
The NAACP story is one of dedication 
to winning the struggle to obtain racial

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
Disney World Extends Hours
Spring break and Easter holidays with 
thousands of vacationing college students 
in Flordia brings extra entertainment and 
special operating hours for Walt Disney 
World. Such exciting adventures as Space 
Mountain and Haunted Mansion top the 
list of 45 major attractions in the Magic 
Kingdom.
Daily parades, nightly fireworks and all 
kinds of contemporary musical groups are 
part of this year's entertainment specials.
Tomorrowland will feature disco dan­
cing nightly during spring break from 
March 11-24 when the Magic Kingdom ex­
tends its operating hours - 9 AM to 10 
PM.
Special musical features include Nick 
Russo and Gabriel's Brass, the Mardi Gras 
Sound Company, Kids of the Kingdom,
New World Brass and the far-out sounds of 
Michael Iceberg and his Iceberg Machine. *
Jazz and disco also are featured at the 
Walt Disney World Village and the Hotel |pp 
Plaza's four hotels in Lake Buena Vista 
including Jay McShann (March 12-24) 
and Tommy Flanagan (April 9-21) on the 
Village Lounge Jazz stage.
The most popular attractions in Walt 
Disney World include Jungle Cruise, Pi­
rates of the Caribbean, Skyway, Starjets 
and 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
Now the nation's most popular tour­
ist attraction with 14-million visitors an­
nually, Walt Disney World is located mid­
way between Atlantic and Gulf beaches 
near the intersection of Interstate 4 and 
Flordia Turnpike.
MID-TERMS ARE COMING 
ARE YOU READY?
Do you have a physics test, a history mid-term, and a 
lab report due—and all on the same day?
Is the loan credit still missing from your student ac­
count? Does your roommate monopolize your room with 
overnight entertainment? Did your girlfriend dump you 
for a football player? And all this in the same week?
Do you think someone has put a double whammy on 
you? Do you feel that no one could possibly have 
problems like yours? Relax. You are a normal student ex­
periencing pre-mid-term pressure. There are 4,000 other 
students all around you with similar problems.
To increase your chances of doing well during mid­
term week, you may need to reduce the interference
caused by non-academic issues. The trained people at both 
the Counseling Center and the Peer Help Center can help 
you understand yourself and your personal problems bet­
ter so that things might go more smoothly in your college 
life. Also, at mid-term time, you might realize that there 
are some academic problems you want to work on. The 
Communications Skills Center provides help with all sorts 
of writing problems, and the Peer Help Center can give you 
a tutor for a course you have been struggling with alone.
These free on-campus services are some of the univer­
sity resources available to you. Since you pay $6,000 to go 
to school here, why not simultaneously get your money's 
worth and make mid-term time more bearable?
COMMUNICATION SKILLS CENTERPEER HELPCOUNSELING CENTER
BAKER HALL 161 
X2924
BAKER HALL 150-A 
X2904
BAKER HALL 135 
X2922
HOURS
Monday - Friday — 9 00 am - 4:00 pm 
(by appointment)
Monday - Friday — 10:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 
Sunday - Thursday — 7:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 
Friday • Saturday - 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
(OPEN EVENINGS)
Monday - Friday — 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 
(by appointment)
PROBLEMS
Grammar, organization ^ 
The writing of lab reports, term papers, 
essays, resumes
Example:
How do 1 get from my notes 
to a first draft?
Personal problems that students want to tal>, 
over with someone their own oge fstudents 
helping their peers'
Example 1 panic during exams."'
Personal problems that the student wants to 
discuss with an older, more extensively trained 
person.
Example:
"1 just can t get motivated.
PURPOSE
To help students learn how to communicate 
through writing; to train students to edit their 
own papers
To provide students with a 
friendly sympathetic ear
To provide a free tutor
To help remove any barriers to a student s 
educational progress.
COSTFREEFREEFREE
PROCEDURE
As many appointments as necessary with one 
of the trained staff giving personal, individual 
attention to particular writing problems.
Walk-in service to help stOdents with problems 
to find solutions by talking confidentially with a 
peer
Scheduled appointments to help students 
define the source of their troubles by meeting 
confidentially with a professionally trained 
adult.
>1 SERVICE FOR THE STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCIL OF THE FACULTY SENATE

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979—TARTAN—Page 9
Perversion At Yale Prosecuted
NEW HAVEN, CT (CPS)—In the spring 
of 1976, when she was a sophomore at 
Yale, Pamela Price was—according to 
Price—offered a deal. One of her profes­
sors allegedly told her he’d give her a high 
grade if she had sex with him, and a lower 
grade if she refused. She not only refused, 
but, along with five other women, took 
Yale to court. She accused the school of 
violating Title IX strictures against sexual 
discrimination, and of providing inade­
quate procedures for treating its students’ 
complaints of sexual harrassment. The suit 
was the first of its kind. If it ends in Price’s 
favor, Yale could lose all its federal fund­
ing.
These days Price is in law school, pre­
paring for the trial, now set to begin in 
mid-January. But the case has already 
managed to generate some important legal 
precedents for women who wish to sue in 
cases of sexual harrassment.
Most recently, on Nov. 29, the Federal 
District Court in Boston ruled in hearings 
associated with the Price case that students 
in a private university can indeed go direct­
ly to federal court for remedy, without 
first “going through channels” at the insti­
tution, ol first complaining to the U.S.
Dept, of Health, Education, and Welfare 
(HEW), which oversees Title IX matters.
The ruling came in response to Yale’s la­
test effort to have the case dismissed be­
fore it got to trial. Last year, Yale also 
moved to dismiss the suit, and, in Decem­
ber, 1977, succeeded in disqualifying five of 
Price’s co-plaintiffs.
In the process, though, the courts estab­
lished that sexual harrassment is the same 
thing as sexual discrimination. That ruling 
said that, if Price’s charges were true, the 
sexual harrassment would be a condition 
on women’s education that was not on 
male students’ education. If so, it would 
constitute discrimination.
Title IX of the Education Amendments 
of 1972, as explained by Anne Simon, 
Price’s attorney, “basically does two 
things.” First, it stipulates that the govern­
ment won’t give federal monies to any edu­
cational institution that discriminates on 
the basis of sex. The second section “is a 
long, drawn-out list of procedures on how 
to cut off the funds.”
And that’s where the obstacles to Price’s 
suit resided. Yale argued that HEW could 
not cut off funds even if Price’s charges 
were proven, because she hadn’t first com­
plained to the university and HEW before 
filing suit in federal court.
But HEW officials, according to Simon, 
testified “that you can sue in federal court 
without complaining to them. They didn’t 
see that it made a difference whom you 
complained to, one way or the‘other.”
Judge Ellen Bree Burns’ Nov. 29 ruling
essentially agreed with HEW and Price’s at­
torney, though Simon adds “we’re still not 
entirely sure what the precedent means.” 
She’s hoping for clarification when the 
U.S. Supreme Court rules on the Cannon v. 
University of Chicago case, which, though 
not a sexual harrassment case, does con^ 
cern the right of an individual to sue a pri­
vate institution under Title IX.
Yet Burns’ ruling has at last cleared the 
way for Price’s allegations of sexual har­
rassment to be considered in court. Simon 
speculates a Price victory" would 
make more universities clean up their 
acts.” She said her client’s goal was not 
necessarily to inspire more lawsuits. In­
stead, “we want universities to set up 
adequate complaint procedures. It’s 
cheaper than suing, and better for the 
women. Winning this suit would make 
other Title IX suits a credible threat. The 
ifxistence of a credible threat should make
action.”
Some already have. Last May, Stanford 
established “informal procedures for han­
dling allegations of sexual harrassment.” 
Stanford spokesman Bob Beyers said the 
number of reported complaints at Stanford 
is “quite low”—about three a year—but 
“the actual level (of harrassment) remains 
unknown.”
The Student Advocate Office at the Un­
iversity of California-Berkeley, which 
found in a survey that 20 percent of the 
school’s female graduate students had ex­
perienced some form of sexual harrass­
ment, has, perhaps with an eye toward 
Yale, been actively publicising its grievence 
procedures.
51S\51S151515151515151515BB151S1S15151S1515151S®S1S151
Professors’ salaries currently average 
$25,030 for a nine-month school year, 
according to the latest “Higher Education 
Prices and Price Indexes” publication of 
the National Institute of Education. 
Fringe benefits add another $3,860 to the 
compensation.
'CWP employment'
-A&SNcy-So i _____
Ncxaa­ x,:a Fk’N ’Nc VcW-t­­­ 
FENW’ fkDc F“Uo* t, x,: FcW-.
CHEMICAL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICALENGINEERSSun Petroleum Products Company Seeks:
ENGINEERS INTERESTED IN THE FUTURE OF 
THIS NATION’S ECONOMY!
ENGINEERS CONCERNED ABOUT THE WORLD’S 
DWINDLING SUPPLY OF FOSSIL FUELS!
ENGINEERS EXCITED BY TECHNICALLY 
CHALLENGING, PROFESSIONALLY 
SATISFYING PROJECTS!
ENGINEERS SEEKING SUCCESS AND EXCELLENT REMUNERATION 
IN THE VITAL AND EXCITING 
FIELD OF PETROLEUM REFINING/PRODUCTION!
Engineers from our Professional 
staff will be on your campus
Tuesday February 27 
Wednesday February 28
to discuss our company’s plans 
for your career in The Petroleum 
Industry. For further information, 
please contact your College 
Placement Office.
An Equal Opportunity Employer. M F V, HI

---------------------------------------------------

Where Will You Be Sleeping Next Fall?
Off-Campus Housing Forum with 
Yvonne McCredie, CMU off-campus housing 
advisor and Mary Lou Sosso, University of 
of Pgh. off campus housing director, 
will be available to discuss new
services.
Thursday, February 15 
12:30 pm Wherrett Room
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning
WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)-“I don’t 
think anybody knows why it is still this 
^way,” complains Donna Shavlik, associate 
director of the American Council on Edu­
cation’s Office of Women in Higher Educa­
tion.
Shavlik was referring to a new survey 
that, once again, shows that faculty men 
earn more and out-number women faculty 
at all college levels. The report, conducted 
for the 1977-78 year by the National Cen­
ter for Educational Statistics, found wom­
en earn $300-5000 less per year than men.
Of the total 389,264 faculty positions 
at colleges and universities studied by 
NCES, 74.6 percent were held by men. 
Women held only 25.4 percent.
Salary and number differences are con­
sistent,for every faculty rank, including lec­
turers, instructors, assistant, associate and 
full professors. The proportion of women
increases at the lower ranks.
Things haven’t changed much from 
NCES’s 1976-77 survey, either. The aver­
age women’s salary has increased about 
$700 annually, but men’s advanced an av­
erage $1000. The number of women faculty 
members advanced .4 percent.
Higher education leaders generally 
weren’t surprised by NCES statistics. Al­
though federal and state legislation of re­
cent years has been aimed at narrowing the 
pay and promotion gap, there’s been little 
“across-the-board” progress since 1970, 
says Suzanne Howard of the American As­
sociation of University Women.
Howard feels the discrimination is part 
of a “whole societal problem” supported 
by attitudes that women should remain in 
the home, and that work by women does 
not carry the same value as men’s.
u. S. NAVY
COLLEGE JUNIORS AND 
GRADUATING SENIORS
Expand Your Job Horizons
Positions in Engineering 
and Nuclear Engineering 
Business Management 
Intelligence and Aviation
(20/20 vision not required for Flight Officer)
Initial salaries ranging from $12,000 to $16,000 
$19,000 to $26,000 after 4 years 
Full medical and dental coverage 
30 days paid vacation each year 
and more
Interested individuals should sign up for interviews 
in the Placement Office now Transcripts are requested 
or call 644-5880
INTERVIEWS FEB. 22 and 23
ontiay, Feb. IR
+hroucjV\ "L4-, GSG m&4SbopaV rnembc’r' r>rice«. (Z.O°7o cllscoontj !
with â current l.D.
ol 5wp\e. w\d\vyd SH., 
----------------------------Oakland, (ofel-vnr?
Monday-Fr\da^ VX-T4SPW 
------------— Satucièv} loNV^.A-Spt^
^7Crvl^\C\fp FrfcsV\-ffv)t* WMegtWMes,
Hw, UtrbS Yru it, fvl IAPr o
cvr\d ------Aincf MUCH M0Wc-\
A consume co-operative 
owKVeo hS ITS MEMBERS
Page 10—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
Female Profs Get Cheated

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Joint effort makes 'West Side' big success
Greg Lehane, director, and Myron Howard Nadel, choreographer, go over the script of West Side
Story with Carol Burt who plays Maria.
¦TV, _ ¦ "by Dan Livak
Musical theatre is one of the most 
difficult forms of theatrics to present 
successfully, it can not rely merely upon 
the farcical nature of a musical comedy to 
carry it through, nor can it singly depend 
upon the histrionic power of straight 
drama, but must instead strive to present 
to the audience a forceful drama via a 
musical vehicle, and, at the same time, do 
this in a believable fashion. Carnegie- 
Mellon's College of Fine Arts manages to 
do just that in this year's musical West 
Side Story.
This production is the most polished 
musical I've yet to encaunter at CMU 
during the past four years. Six musical- 
theatre students are in starring roles, and 
this may help to explain some of the
reasons for the success of this production. 
As director Gregory Lehane explained, 
students in musical-theatre (a highly 
selective option which had an inaugural 
class of ten) are trained in drama, music 
and dance. In past CMU productions, 
actors who couldn't sing, singers' who 
couldn't dance or dancers who couldn't 
act handicapped the overall quality of the 
musical productions. In West Side Story 
this is changed.
For those of you who have somehow 
managed to miss seeing a production of 
West Side Story-W opened on Broadway 
in 1957, (lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and 
music by Leonard Bernstein), was later 
made into a movie which has subsequently 
been shown on television, besides being 
performed by numerous touring com- 
panies--the plot resembles that of Romeo 
and Juliet. Two ill-fated lovers meet amidst 
•he turmoil of street gangs, racism and gang 
wars. The Sharks, led by Bernardo (John 
Maldonado), are a Puerto Rican gajiijg which 
battles the Jets, the whit<£ of tlie4elf»hbor-
hood. Maria (Carol M. Burt) Bernardo 
sister, and Tony (Brent Barrett), a former 
Jet, fall in love, but the hostilities of the 
two gangs help to keep them apart. Before 
the play has ended, Bernardo, Tony and 
Riff (Alexander Beresniewicz), former 
leader of the Jets, die.
Director Lehane sought to blend acting, 
song and dance into "seamless" charac­
terizations, and has luckily succeeded. 
Action (Mark Swanson), one of the Jets, 
exemplifies this success. When Swanson 
dances it is an extention of the way he 
walks on stage; when he sings, an extention 
of his talking. Swanson the actor and 
Swanson the dancer-singer are not two 
separate characters, as unfortunately hap­
pens in all too many musicals, but rather 
one character, believeable in both roles.
Credit must also be given to choreo­
grapher Myron Howard Nadel for his 
excellant staging and choreography. The 
Kresge Theatre is an abomination for 
musical productions, but Nadel has man­
aged to work around that, and has given a 
free and open feeling to the production 
numbers. The sets, by Michael llyncs. 
were designed to highlight the performers, 
not the craftsmanship of a carpet!-v,. and 
fit in perfectly with the effect tlvv l.ehane' 
and Nadel wished to create. The musical 
end of the production, under the conduc­
tion of Robert Page was also excellent 
and moving the orchestra behind ihe 
stage, thus ending a Carnegie tradition of 
using the orchestra as a barrier between 
the actors and the audience, is a great 
move forward for musical theatre at CMU.
The individual performances were 
quite good, and the members of the sup­
porting cast were superb. America, the high 
point of Act I, allowed the talents of the 
Sharks and their girl-friends to be djs^t p *(, „-a.
played. Particularly striking was Bernardo s
photos by Skip Brazelton
Maria tries to comfort a wounded Tony (Brent Barrett).
girl-friend Anita (Julia Pollitt), whose 
performance throughout the play was 
outstanding. Officer Krupke offered the 
Jets their chance to prove themselves, 
and they did so marvelously, with Swanson 
and Diesel (Patrick Dunster) doing excel­
lent jobs. Citing individual members of 
the Jets and Sharks may be somewhat 
misleading however, for all of them put 
forth strong performances.
The talent of the two leads, Barrett 
and Burt, were also evident. Barrett has a 
fine voice and his characterizatoon of 
Tony was exceptional. Burt's voice was 
also strong, but at times seemed con­
strained and forced. She^Npened Act II in 
excellent form however, wrcV/ heel Pretty
and her portrayal of Maria was sensitive 
and endearing. Beresniewiczs Riff was 
consistent and well-acted, but during the 
musical numbers he failed to project his 
voice and unfortunately some of the 
lyrics never seemed to leave his throat.
The future of the musical-theatre 
option at the present is in somewhat of a 
mist, but based on this production, the 
strengths of that program seem clear. 
West Side Story will continue to run Feb­
ruary 13-17, showtime 8:20 PM, with a
2 PM show on Saturday as well. I encour­
age all members of the campus community 
to utilize one of CMU's greatest internal 
resources, its drama department, and see

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-February 13, 1979
PPT repertory shows
Bromka) her list of school activities in Vanities.
make good use of cast
Kathy (Sally Dunn), left, shows Joanne (Elaine 
by David Sheward
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre is contin­
uing its experiment with repetory theatre 
that began with last season's Slow Dance 
on the Killing Ground and Medal of Honor 
Rag which were performed on alternating 
nights. This season The Public is producing 
Jack Heifner's off-Broadway smash Van­
ities alongside of David Rudkin's equally 
successful Ashes, both plays being directed 
by Terry Schreiber. Both Plays concern 
themselves with the protaganists' ability 
or non-ability to adapt to their constantly 
changing environment.
Vanities follows the lives of three 
Texas girls over an eleven year period.
CEDAR POINT LIVI SHCWS
PERFORMERS
MUSICIANS
TECHNICIANS
Tech Interviews 1 00. Auditions 2 00
MORGANTOWN, WV 
Wed., Feb. 14
Holiday Inn 
l-79/Star City Exit
PITTSBURGH, PA 
Thurs., Feb. 15
Marriott Inn 
l-279/Greentree Exit
AKRON, OH 
Fri., Feb. 16
Holiday Inn. East 
1-76/ Gilchrist Road *
Also at Cedar Point 
Sat. Feb 10. Sat. Feb 17 
minimum age 18 
FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES 
AND FURTHER INFORMATION 
CONTACT LIVE SHOWS
In the first act we see them as terribly 
popular high school cheerleaders. The kind 
that had boy friends on the football 
team, planned and decorated the junior 
prom with huge chicken-wire multi-colored 
tissue paper creations, and breezed through 
their classes never doing the homework 
or giving their education a second, or 
even first thought. Their accents, hair­
styles and personalities are almost indis­
tinguishable.
We see them next as sorority sisters 
about to graduate from college. Changes 
have set in. The compulsive organizer in 
high school, Kathy (Sally Dunn) has 
changed her hairstyle, lost her Texas 
accent and is fearful of life beyond the 
sorority house. The almost loose woman 
Mary (Suzanne Toren) has dropped her 
accent and is ready to take on the world. 
Only Joanne (Elaine Bromka) has kept her 
accent, hairstyle and innocence and is 
about to marry her high school sweet­
heart.
WQED bri
by Joan Livitski
For those of you who complain that 
radio is all top 40 and TV only consists of 
situation comedies and crime and violence 
shows, you'll be pleased to hear that 
WQED is bringing some culture to the 
media.
In one of the most ambitious television 
projects, WQED-13 will air the complete 
dramatic works of William Shakespeare. 
The Shakespeare Plays will premiere with 
Julius Caesar on February 14 at 9:00 PM. 
Others forthcoming in the near future are: 
As You Like It (February 28), Romeo and 
Juliet (March 20), Richard II (March 28), 
Measure For Measure (April 11), and 
Henry VIII (April 25).
The Shakespeare Plays marks the First 
time that performed versions of all the 
plays will be preserved on either film or
The girls are seen last in Kathy's garden 
apartment where after a frustrating try at 
teaching she resides as a kept woman. 
Mary is now a fire breathing eccentric 
erotic art dealer. Joanne still has the 
same hairstyle and accent and seems to 
have everything she's ever wanted including 
husband, kids and suburban home, but a 
drinking problem is attached.
In the first two acts playwright Heifner 
acheives the distinctions between his 
characters subtly, but in the third act 
they become blatant. The women drop 
conversation and begin talking in speeches. • 
Misses Toren and Dunn are fine in Acts I 
and II, but this flaw comes up in the third 
act when they become soap opera heroines 
saying lines like "I've known the relief 
of abortion" and "I'd never really looked 
at the stars before". Miss Brokma has the 
advantage of .being spared such lines.
Aside from the over-stated message 
in the third act, Vanities has humour, 
warmth, nostalgia for the sixties and 
poignant observations of human nature 
going for it.
Ashes deals with an English couple and 
their long and ardous efforts to have a 
child. They begin by going to a variety of 
doctors, clinics and specialists, going 
through an embarassing drill of close 
examinations, performing sex by cycle 
and calendar, making charts and going 
through innumerable uncomfortable po­
sitions. When the wife (Gloria Maddox) 
is finally pregnant she loses the child and 
cannot have another. Then they must 
start over again with the county adop-
videotape. Over the next six years, audien­
ces will see productions especially designed 
for television of all 37 of Shakespeare's 
dramatic works, including many which are 
rarely staged in America. The series is a 
BBC-TV and Time-Life Television co-pro­
duction, presented for the Public Broadcas­
ting Service by WNET, New York, and is 
made possible by grants from Exxon Cor­
poration, Metropolitan Life Insurance 
Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company.
Julius Caesar stars Keith Michell (The 
Six Wives of Henry VIII) as Antony, Rich­
ard Pasco of the Royal Shakespeare Com­
pany as Brutus and Charles Gray as Caesar, 
with David Collings as Cassius and Eliza­
beth Spriggs and Virginia McKenna as Cal- 
purnia and Portia. The director is Herbert 
Wise, who directed I, Claudius.
Having a child is not the first task they 
have labored at unsuccessfully. Their 
careers as actress and writer have failed. 
The husband (Berkely Harris) has been 
rejected by his familyin Northern Ireland.
Playwrite Rudkin uses the couple as 
a metaphor for the state of modern North­
ern Ireland. The couple's past life is a 
series of collapses and failures and they 
are unable to produce an offspring. North­
ern Ireland's past is a series of wars, blood 
and explosion, they are unable to produce 
an acceptable future. This parallel is 
brought into painfully clear focus in a 
monologue the husband delivers describ­
ing his uncle's funeral.
Director Schrieber makes use of the 
Public's large playing area, setting scenes 
in several different places, but the move­
ment of the furniture by stagehands is 
sometimes distracting. The large playing 
area and movement of furniture also tend 
to decrease the play's intensity, but this 
is balanced by injections of levity.
Harris and Maddox give compelling 
performances as the beleaugered couple. 
Beth Dixon and John C. Vennema show 
great versatility in a variety of supporting 
roles as doctors, friends and nurses.
The Public's repetory series has so far 
been very successful mounting of small 
cast plays. It might be interesting to see 
this on a large scale with ost of cast doubl- 1 
ing in two large cast plays, or actors 
alternating roles within the same play. 
For example one actor playing Hamlet one 
night and Horatio the next. Well, maybe
WQED-FM produced the Prologues to 
Shakespeare which is being aired in conjun­
ction with the telecast of The Shakespeare 
Plays. The series will cover such topics as 
Shakespeare's view of history, his language, 
Shakespeare as presented on the stage, on 
film and television and the challenge of 
staging, directing and acting his works. 
Prologues to Shakespeare will air on WQED 
(89.3 FM) Sundays at 10 PM prior to the 
telecast and Wednesdays at 6:30 PM, the 
evening of the broadcast.
So adjust your dials away from 96 KX 
and Laverne and Shirley and you may 
pleasantly discover that 13 is not such an 
unlucky number. In fact, you might just 
forget that you are seeing or hearing some­
thing educational and really be 
entertained.
tion agency. next year.
Anne (Gloria Maddox) listens to her_country doctor (John C. Vennema) tell her she has a 50-50 
chance of saving her unborn child in Ashes.ngs culture to media
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979—TARTAN—Page 13
"CHICAGO'S" razzle-dazzle dulled in recent production
Nominees predicted for Academy Awards
?????????????????????????
????????????????????*????
little, but more with sentimentality, money 
By David Sheward ad campaigns.
???
For best picture:
Coming Home 
Days of Heaven 
The Deer Hunter 
Midnight Express 
Superman
The likely winner in this category is
It's almost that time of year again. Yes, 
it s almost time for the Academy Awards' 
51st presentation. In about a week or two 
the Academy will announce its nominees 
for the top honors. So here are some pre­
dictions as to who will be honored with 
nominations. Keep in mind this has no­
thing to do with quality, well, maybe a
The Deer Hunter, Vegas oddmakers already 
have it pegged and its dark moodiness 
would offset last year's choice of Annie 
Hall, a romantic comedy.
**-¥¦
For best actor:
Gary Bussey (The Buddy Holly Story) 
Robert DeNiro (The Deer Hunter) 
Anthony Hopkins (Magic)
Gregory Peck (The Boys from Brazil)
Jon Voight(Coming Home)
Voight in the long run. He's already 
copped all the critics' awards and he's 
been nominated before without a win, 
which always helps.
???
For best actress:
Ingrid Bergman (Autumn Sonata)
Ellen Burstyn (Same Time, Next Year)
Jill Clayburgh (An Unmarried Woman) 
Jane Fonda (Coming Home) 
Geraldine Page (Interiors)
This one is tough to call. Bergman is 
the likely choice, but she got an undeserv­
ed (by her own admission) Oscar for a walk- 
on in Murder on the Orient Express. If 
she did win it, it would make four, a record 
which decreases her chance. Fonda and 
Burstyn have also won before, and Clay­
burgh doesn't’have much star power. Page 
could win by default. I'll put my money on 
Fonda, having appeared in two other pic­
tures with strong performances (Comes a 
Horseman and California Suite), she has 
the most clout.
???
For best supporting actor:
Bruce Dem (Coming Home)
Charles Grodin (Heaven Can Wait) 
Robert Morley (Who is Killing the Great 
Chefs of Europe?)
Burgess Meredith (Magic) 
Christopher Walken (The Deer Hunter) 
Even tougher to call. Morley and Mere­
dith are sentimental favorites. Walken has 
got the critical praise. Dem and Grodin 
were in popular pictures. So I'll close my 
???
For best supporting actress:
Carol Burnett iA Wedding)
Dyan Cannon (Heaven Can Wait) 
Maureen Stapleton (Interiors)
Maggie Smith (California Suite)
Meryl Stree (The Deer Hunter) 
Stapleton, definitely. She's a sentiment­
al favorite and has been nominated in this 
category several times before. In addition, 
she has the critical awards.
On the other hand, I could be all wrong 
and these people might not even get nomi­
nated. I'll keep my fingers crossed, 
eyes and pick one at random. Walken. Oh, 
well, one in five chance.
ooooooooo
Don't forget to send in your "Stu­
dent's Choice Awards" ballot to Fo­
cus, 1140 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, N.Y. 10036
OOOOOOOOO
by Joan Livitski
One of the more memorable songs from 
Chicago sports the lines: "Razzle dazzle 
them, and they'll never catch on." The 
touring company that was recently in 
Pittsburgh seemed to feel it could get away 
with "all that jazz" by relying on theatrical 
glitter. The real distressing part was that, 
for the most part, the audience bought 
their razzamatazz production.
The show itself requires a willingness to 
believe the unbelievable. I can forgive, 
accept, even enjoy the corniness of people 
breaking into song and dance at any given 
moment. That's easy for anyone who loves 
old musicals. When a group of female con­
victs do the cell block tango telling how 
they each killed a husband or lover, I won't 
say a thing about the actual depraved and 
sullen conditions of prison life. I can even 
appreciate the satirical views expressed 
about courtroom procedures and society 
in When Velma Takes the Stand and <^lass.
Where I felt razzle-dazzled was in the 
nearly non-existent set, the off-key and in­
audible vocals, and the sheer lack of any
Roxie vamps out a song after shooting her lover.
unifying element. What we did get was a 
splash of sultry, seductive and stupendous 
costumes and some very provocative and 
vibrant dancing especially by Velma 
(Kirsten Childs). It's a shame that the 
shows lead, Roxie Hart (Susan Streater), 
didn't possess the same pizzazz.
The real irony came when Amos 
(Donald Norris) sang Mister Cellophane. 
In the song he expresses how he feels being 
the most unimportant person, someone 
everyone else just looks past or through. 
Billy Flynn (Don Murray) the smooth talk­
ing lawyer whose acting had a few rough 
edges, can't even remember Amos' name 
right. All this may be true of Amos Hart 
the character, but Donald Norris the actor 
went far from unnoticed. He gave the one 
truly honest and applaudible performance 
of the show, carrying off the comic yet 
naive character in a consistent and believ­
able manner. When he told his wife,"I'm 
tired of your fancy footwork," it seemed 
appropriate for there to be tap dancers in 
the backround doing a little soft shoe.
In all, the show had its moments, but 
there was too much filler in between. I felt 
like I was watching a poor Vaudville review 
where they were dragging between acts. 
The show hadn't been pulled together yet; 
it was still piecemeal. It was like a jigsaw 
puzzle right out of the box. All the pieces 
were there, but you don't get the picture 
until they're put together right.
One little, unexpected highlight came in 
the courtroom scene when Roxie was on 
trial. One man mimed all the jury members 
by changing seats, hats, props, etc. Though 
he was positioned at the sidelines, he was 
far more interesting than the center attrac­
tion.
The ultimate irony came right after in­
termission when Velma opened with "Hello 
, Suckers! Welcome back." It felt too much 
like a direct address to the audience and 
rightly so.
Mama and Velma give Roxie the cold shoulder when she first comes to prison.
photos by Skip Brazelton

---------------------------------------------------

if
2-F0R-1 COUPON ~oo ff.SNa
BMINO A FRISND AND THIS COUPON A MCBIVK t ADMISSIONS FOR THS PRICt OF ONI IHi
1AValid through February 28, 1979= 1
I*
Carnegie-Mellon University
lOMt COUKJH *f* HKSOHl¦I
^ S' n
3 " *3
" §•
3 o | 
& 2 sf
<2 3' o
of a
*w
r^-C/5
TD3*O’n>o?-t
>3n>
35'C/3r*-c
BLoc«•
AS'3
f»
o'
ISK'
3
o B- %<—> a
g-* S.S <5 aT3 S, • S’ °>
<T>*13 **i £; o 3
«* ’H. «p ?r

---------------------------------------------------

FEBRUARY 13, 1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 18: 
VALENTINE'S DAY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
Sbf* tAiee/ \
by Eric Pointa!
It was a crisp September morning as he walked 
slowly along the cut, passing the mdtley crowd of 
students with their eyes transfixed on the pave­
ment, eyes rooted to the earth as if the sunlight 
and stare of a stranger would melt their flesh. In 
the horizon clouds rolled past skyscrapers on a 
deep blue background A wave of glistening au­
burn hair caught his attention. Under a floppy 
leather hat were two deep blue eyes, a cute up­
turned nose and small red lips.
She's cute. Must be an artist...As he passed her 
he pushed his glasses up against his nose-subcon­
scious body-language acknowledging her beauty- 
then he grinned. To his surprise she smiled back. 
He walked on to Science Hall for his 15-211 
course with the image of her smile on his mind.
Class went on uneventfully and soon it was 
lunch time. He pushed open the glass door to en­
ter the Deli...when are they ever going to fix that 
other door? As usual it was quite crowded with 
people standing in line, cuddled around the round 
tables, dipping tea bags, munching on the special
TARTAN FOLIO
FEBRUARY 13,1979A/OLUME lll/ISSUE 18: 
VALENTINE'S DAY
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
DANIEL KLEIN
ELIZABETH A. LYNN
MARK FRANCIS MASTANDREA
LOUISE MOLNAR
ERIC POINTAL
COVER DESIGN:
ROSE DUBIN
^ &/ ti/ Mte
of the day...She was sitting alone at a table near 
the window, her classic features accentuated" by 
the shadows of a midday sun. He eventually or­
dered the Deli special from the black woman be­
hind the counter, got it and then went to get 
some sugar for his coffee...little packets espou­
sing famous women to further the cause of wo­
men's lib. His eyes roamed about the room for a 
place to sit... well, why not. He walked towards 
her.
"Mind if I sit here?"
She looked up. Perhaps he said that like some 
kind of a challenge. I didn't mean to intrude on 
her space-bubble. Could he ever get to know this 
girl?
"No", she answered.
He sat across her at the table, contemplating 
his ham and rye. This shyness within him. What 
could he say...didn't really have much to say but-
"Excuse me", the words tumbled across his lips 
as he stared at his lifeless meal. He had been 
thinking so hard that he didn't hear her question.
" I just said hello," she laughed.
"You sound like you have a New York 
accent."
"No, I'm from Camden, New Jersey. It's my 
first year at CMU"
"Oh, you're a freshman." That was a rather 
stupid reply he realized as though the word fresh­
man conjured up some fabulous illusions of con­
quest or something.
"So why did you decide to come here?" he 
asked trying to animate the conversation.
She looked puzzled.
"To eat of course," she giggled. "Well, actually 
I came here to major in art. My mother went here 
back in the chauvanistic days of Margaret Morri­
son and I really wanted to get away-"
He listened to her cute accent, the words 
alighting from the tongue like dew from heaven 
for his parched throat, all the while memorizing 
her features. They talked through his ham and 
rye, her orange juice and bagel. He looked at his 
watch and saw that he was late for Thermo. 
"So what do you" she asked.
She's taking an interest in me.
"Me, I'm a double E"
"Oh, what's that?"
"Electricial Engineering. Actually l.m an 
electricial engineering major. But here at CMU 
they psyche everybody up. You think of your­
self in terms of, well a double E or a mech E. 
Double E is something you do if you want to get 
a job when you graduate." Hmm, that wasn't to 
smart. That was like saying she wouldn't get a job 
when she graduated. An ego trip and a put down 
in a single sentence but it was a routine answer he 
gave everybody.
She had finished her lunch as he had started 
peeling an orange.
"It's been nice talking with you," she said as 
she started collecting her things. She rose to make 
her exit towards the door. The orange will have to 
wait... He opened the door for her in the role of 
a gentleman and shortly walked towards Baker 
Hall with her phone number scrawled across a dit­
to assignment sheet.
Later that night he gathered up his courage, 
dialed up her Centrex extension, intending to ask 
her for a date ' accompany me, no, ah see a movie 
Friday night in Doherty Hall.'
"Hello, " a strange female voice came over the
phone.
"Who?" He muttered her name.
"I'm sorry but you must have the wrong num­
ber."*
(The following piece was Printed in the "Free- 
for-All" FOL10 in incorrect order. We apologize 
to Mr. Klein for this error, and are now printing 
"Recovery" correctly.)
by Daniel Klein
'Cause I see you now in a different light,
Your eyes don't sparkle, and your smile ain't 
bright.
And your silk smooth touch is like a sow's ear 
now,
And the honey of your lips has gone stale.
The day, finally, it has come 
When you no longer are the sun 
That shines both night and day.
.Your frail facade, your carapace—
Is shattered now, like so much glass 
Revealing thus for me to see 
That which you ne'er seemed to be.
'Cause after the wine and the roses and the tears, 
And after all I've said and done and tried for you,
I fear
That the wine is now envinagered,
And the roses are but thorns,
And your sweet salt tears are but bitter brine—
I will no longer mourn!
The flame has died, the embers out,
The memories all grown wan.
And all the love that I once held dear 
Is faded, to a whisper, though still it is near.
I cannot, as you did, feel hate, or feel spite—
But I do see you now, in a different light.
TTTTTTTTTTTTTThTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTh
Hey... is it soup yet? Nobody ever said that 
living at CMU meant you were relegated to in­
stant coffee and dehydrated gorp. FOLIO'S next 
theme is the "Complete Starving Roommate 
Cheap Living Dorm Room Cookbook" (quite a 
mouthfull in itself!) and in it, we're looking for 
stories poems, essays, and drawings about how 
you cope with sustaining yourself here ate CMU. 
You can be serious or humorous, and we'd love to 
get some of the recipes you use, too... there must 
be some way to adequately bake a birthday cake 
on top of the hotplates in E-1 ower! The deadline 
for this February 27 issue is February 20, so 
submit your ideas today!
And don't forget that we're looking for "spe­
cial" material, too, as well as stories for the up­
coming issues "Sci Fi" (deadline March 6) and 
"Parodies of Great Masterpieces" (deadline; 
March 13).
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979—TARTAN —Page 17
—for Kala and Shirley, who can never be replaced 
by Elizabeth A. Lynn
6. DIARY OF AN AFFAIR 
One year minus this, we laughed, 
in recognition of our similarities 
and to hide a fear we yet deny.
I wore my hair in braids
and shed mica layers of maturity.
You laughed at my plaited childishness. 
I laughed at the breaking of my walls 
I knew sure mortared.
1. WHEN / GOT MARRIED 
When I got married
Someone told me that the world would turn a 
rosey purple,
And everything would be covered in glittery dust, 
And I would live in a sugar castle 
With a benign sea serpent named Cecil to guard 
me.
And we would reign on Chunky thrones 
And slice the air with magic sceptres.
And it wouldn't make one bit of difference 
that I weighed two hundred and thirty-two 
pounds,
People would come from far and wide to see my 
bridely beauty.
One year minus this, plus one, 
in recognition of feelings you didn't want, 
and to hide the spark new made 
I wore my love upon my face 
and shed droplets hoping to melt your resolve. 
You were firm andsaid we would laugh no more 
I swore I recovered, rebuilt my walls 
I could only use water as mortar.
3. LITTLE PRINCE 
Glutton for gifts and praise,
You grab at the torrent of wealth 
Acknowledging only the handful 
Your fingers deign to touch.
One year minus this, plus two 
in recognition of the inevitability of space 
and time, we slept together, side by side.
I wore my hopes closed within 
and shed no words to encourage.
You showered, and wet haired awoke hopes 
I harboured unsecretly, we loved and 
We made a joyous noise.
And now I'm married.
Nobody told me that the world would turn red 
with bills
And dishes left too long in the sink would grow 
mold.
And I live in a five room apartment with the heat 
in one room.
And the only sea serpents I ever, see is the algae 
growing in our waterbed.
And our sale black bean bag chairs would sudden­
ly snow on people.
And the only thing that slices the air is Airwick.
And it still makes a difference that I weigh over 
two hundred pounds.
And most of the people we invited didn't come to 
the reception.
And those who did come got drunk, and the 
photographer never even let me eat.
Still you flagellate yourself 
With whips of responsibility,
Barbed with unused potential.
You cringe from your identity,
Skulk in shadows of self-deceit.
You honour the cloak a stereotype gives
Somewhere beneath where we see, you 
Must be reconciled, . x
And cease to rend your ego 
With fangs of contempt.
One year minus this, and now,
Who would have predicted our tryst,
A three day lesson in immortal futility.
And yet I mourn the new laughter you share 
The echo cries to be heard,
And yet I push it away, for your sake, 
not for mine.You shred your worth, 
Determined to deny it.
I will not let you succeed
4. FOR THE PRINCE WHO HAS GONE 
Your lover's kiss is gone from me now,
It haunts as a regurgitated speck 
Planted but upon my brow.
Contented in even your least affections 
I relive the old electricities.
Somewhere there is a god, merciful,
Who stops my hand from climbing 
Into your palm's bed.
There is a kindredness of inner torture, 
Between us exists a bond only you can deny. 
Yes, my lips are in friendly exile from yours, 
And we will be friends now.
Have communal joys and fantasies.
I baste myself with memories,
Languishing in a fantasy you can't share.
I wish it would be enough.
When I got married, why didn't anyone tell me 
That my prince would have smelly feet,
Rancid breath,
Incredibly poor taste in television shows.
And the most remarkable knack for rolling over 
directly on top of me,
at 2:54 every sincfte morning?
2. WOULD I SING WHILE BEATEN? 
Would I sing with this my 
only breath, over washed in 
Unguents, pin dripping fever.
Lessening my tenuous cling.
Deepening my beholdance to this ring,
7TB —
Bless me with your heart,
Eyes bought with suicides's coin,
Near empty your purse sways 
Jangling dissonance to your smile. 
Afterwards, your kiss on the air 
May never dissipate, I will hold your hand 
In concert our purses empty.
Nullifying the black goal god.
Keep me safe from myself,
Each day you shear my rolling wool and 
Yesterday I was made bald.
Sedate me with your wisdom—
Natural gift to grace a mind 
Enveloping itself with circlets of thought. 
Listening, you have made the rocks melt 
Leaving, laughing, leaderless, lurching 
I wait for the feel of your hand.
No god inclined to this world 
Gives such gift as you.
I find I sin at vows made for ever
Seeing its clover scent sting 
Into a thing prepared for orchid, such as I, 
Now to sing while beaten, when shall I cry? 
Grating against my dignity emerging. si
5. CONTRAPUNTAL PIECE FOR THOSE 
SUNDERED FOREVER 
Keep me tender as the sea 
Young as a red hot star 
And peaceful as pursuit 
overlittered by obstacles 
Lighting midnight by your side.
Leave me to cleave a path 
Arching tributes in silver glances 
Around your magnanimity.
Xenophical in brilliance
Nearer I come to the beginning 
See me stand again as one
Dearer I find our heritage unlost.
Hidden in pieces to re-emerge then 
Attendant place within your keep 
I take up our souls again.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18^TARTAN—February 13, 1979
RESIDENCE LIFE AND STUDENT DORMITORY COUNCIL
HEARTBREAK HOTEL
A VALENTINE DISCO/50's MUSIC DANCE
WHERE — SKIBO BALLROOM 
WHEN — SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14 9 P.M 
MUSIC PROVIDED BY KEVIN BUTKO
COME SLICK!
foi
A Villanelle 
by K.A. Yaksich
I'm a student 
with love in mind; 
thus my work 
must fall behind.
All I think 
of night and day 
is talk to you— 
what should I say?
You know the current 
of a love flows 
from you to me 
and always grows.
My resistance 
falls, my dear, 
when I see you.
Miss Ampere.
The digital flop 
of my mono-heart 
fills my body 
like cupid's dart.
Soon my courage 
will find its peak 
and then you'll find 
to you I'll speak.
Listen, please, 
for I've been through 
torture not saying 
I love you!
From me to you;
I hope you recognize.
Do you know how I value your advice, 
Being able to bare my heart to you? 
Happiness shared is happiness had twice.
Your counsel disperses the avarice 
Around me, like ashes blown from a flue. 
Do you know how 1 value your advice?
The time we spend together's paradise; 
Like cider,, it grows tarter yet mellow. 
Happiness shared is happiness had twice.
Those moments, though, are not 
without their price.
It's hard when circumstance takes me from you. 
Do you know how I value your advice?
I'm sure, with small effort, you could entice 
Me to refrain from leaving your side. True 
Happiness shared is happiness had twice.
When you feed me solid bread and rare spice 
Do I favor one? Whatever I do,
Do you know how I value your advice? 
Happiness shared is happiness had twice.
by Mark Francis Mastandrea
I'm not one to live 
without elation.
Life's much more than simple 
inhale and exhalation.
My loves I'll not forget, 
My vices remain temptation.
I'll take only what I get.
But Lord, it might be nice 
to have some feminine inspiration.

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 19
If you are planning a career in computer applications, consider 
the opportunities at PG&E. We are one of the nations largest utilities, an 
acknowledged leader in the computer applications field. We offer a wide 
range of challenging assignments in areas such as:
Data Base Management 
Business, Scientific, and Systems Programming 
Data Communications 
Management Information Systems 
Energy and Environmental Systems Analysis 
Mini/Microcomputer Applications 
Hardware Performance Evaluation 
If you are graduating with a bachelors or advanced degree in:
Computer Science 
Engineering (EE, ME, IE, ChE)
Operations Research or Management Science 
Business Administration 
Applied Mathematics or Statistics
or have related experience, we invite you to find out more about us. 
Make an appointment to talk with us at the Placement Oftice. Well be 
on your campus February 14, 1979.
San Francisco. California 
Equal Opportunity Employer— men and women
Fall Dean's Lists Announced in H&SS, CIT
College Of Humanities and Social Sciences 
Seniors
Linda Aldridge, Tracey Appleby, Susan 
Bronder, Linda Cokeley, Jocelyn Curran, 
Steven Faloon, Patricia Flinn, Jean 
Frankenberg, Patricia Frederiksen, Donna 
Gipperich, John Hartner, Erin Hurley, 
Donald Jacobson, Robert Jamison, Sarah 
Kotzuk, Richard Lackner, Daniel Livak, 
Carlyne Mattoon, Lynne Maxwell, 
Constance McCutcheon, Jonathon 
McGraw, Suellen Meyer, Eugene E. 
O'Brien, Mary Patrick, Anne Scheuermann, 
Frederic Siegel, Naomi Sussman, Emily 
Swank, William Van Houten, Raymond L. 
Wilson, James C. Zamagias, Jonathon 
Zischkau.
Juniors
Richard Bennett, Kathleen Bertrand, 
David Doremus, David B. Fawcett, Jean 
Fitzpatrick, Robert Gleeson, Laurie 
Hollick, Jeanne Kravanja, Richard 
Kubinski, Linda Kucan, William Larter, 
David Mongeau, Lyle Montgomery, Lisa 
Packer, Cindy Lu Price, Susan M. 
Rakaczky, Laurie Romanowich, Carolyn 
Snyder, Sue Ann Streich, Barara Waddell, 
Jacquelyn Woolley, Karen Yaksich, 
Jeffrey Zaslow.
Sophomores
Melissa H. Barry, Gary C. Evans, Jeannie 
P. Jessup, Ann P. Kaufmann, Judith 
Marchando, Frances J. Matten, Robert P. 
Merges, Andrew Ragans Scott P. Rose, 
Vicki L. Safran, Stuart Schlisserman, 
Abigail Shachat, Duane Steffey.
Freshman
Edward F. Barr Jr. (AMS), Claire E. 
Bauerle, Robert K. Brown, Anne L. 
Burack, Suzanne M.’ Eckert (AMS), 
Gregory P. Economou, Richard Gorelick, 
Carolyn Heller, Alice Huber, Judith Liput, 
Anne L. Lux, Jeffrey Masoner (AMS), 
Michael Herskovitz (AMS), Marjorie 
Milgram (AMS), Thomas J. Mortimer, 
Steven J. Rayschich, Scott Schaffer, 
Barbara Skulski, Bruce Trottier.
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Joseph C. Allen, Dewayne D. Anderson, 
Donna M. Andrewson, Elizabeth A. Arden, 
Richard D. Arnold, Raymond W. Aul, 
Cynthia L. Baker, Anna J. Batyko, Paul A. 
Beatty, John J. Becker, Gustav H. Beerel, 
Donald H. Behnke, Jeffrey M. Benedict, 
Joseph S. Beri, Guido Bertocci, Thomas E. 
Bober, James M. Bonomo, Edward C. 
Borgoyn, David P. Brady, Marc L. Brown,
Thang N. Bui, William S. Burton, George 
R. Canepa, William J. Cannella, Michael J. 
Carey, Thomas C. Chamberlin, Allen H. 
Chan, John A. Chiesa, Robert T. Chomiak, 
James P. Christ, Julie B. Cohen, Matthew 
S. Corley, William T. Corpus, David R. 
Crispino, Russell P. Dauer, Joseph F. Deck, 
David P. Delo, Steven D. Doctor, John G. 
Dorman, Barry L. Drexler, Kevin M. 
Duffy, James E. Dvorsky, Michael J. 
Ehrenberger, Laurie J. Elm, Alexander R. 
Feild, Joel M. Fisch, Randal L. Fittante, 
Elise Fogel, Charles B. Friedlander, Bradley 
J. Frison, Steven P. Fulton, Philip Gacka, 
Gregg R. Gailey, Shawn P. Galey, James 
A. Gasbarro, Jan A. Gatowski, Miles J. 
Gehm Jr., Kenneth K. Gerzsenyi, Thomas 
J. Gillispie, Wayne E. Grassel, Harry A. 
Gray, Steven E. Gray, Edward J. Gross, 
Andrew Gruss, Marc M. Guardiani, 
James R. Hardin, Daniel C. Haworth, 
William J. Hollyer, Richard A. Horbiak, 
Daniel A. Hosko, Stephen J. Hrinya, Joel 
E. Jakubson, Brian D. Jeker, Gregory D. 
Jordan, Andrew L. Judkis, Deborah A. 
Kaltwasser, Keith A. Kambies, Paula C. 
Kasmerski, Scott A. Keitzer, Richard L. 
Keleman, Matthew F. Kersen, Scott D. 
Kidd, Mark Kieler, Aleksandr Knaster,
Thomas C. Kopchak, Nick J. Komuta 
Jr., Stephen T. Kraus, Ernestine M. Kuhr, 
Charles S. Kuivilla, Richard O. Lamaire, 
Anna M. Laughlin, Joann Lawton, Gary L. 
Leatherman, Martin A. Leister, Tammy 
Lherureux, George J. Limberiou, Kenneth
S. Limmer, Abraham M. Lincoff, Keith A. 
Mach, Ronald J. Mamicio, Michael W. 
Mcelhaney, David S. McGhee, Stuart P. 
Meyer, Bruce A. Mitnick, John J. Murray, 
Mark A. Newborn, David C. Otto, Robert 
G. Pelini, Michael S. Pfeifer, Jeffrey E. 
Price, Edward A. Richley Jr., Deborah J. 
Robisin, Gregg J. Sabol, Mary J. 
Saccamango,Charles A. Schultz, 
Christopher M. Seaman, Matthew T. 
.Senko, Donald M. Silverstein, Stanley A. 
Skerl, Janel M. Smith, Mary B. Smith, 
Russel T. Smith, John D. Snyder, Jeffrey 
L. Sonntag, Frank A. Spaniel, Daniel R. 
Spikula, Richard S. Stephens, Henry W. 
Stone, John J. Streiff Jr., Carlton Stuebing, 
Glenn P. Swaney, Ralph E. Temple Jr., 
Philip P. Thompson, Gregory M. Toto, 
James G. Uber, Jane A. Vaslenak, Peter M. 
Vujaklia, Kevin J. Wagers, Joseph H. 
Wagner, Gary A. Walzer, Mary J. Weber, 
Steven J. Williams, John F. Wojciak, Neil 
J. Yosinski.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
Fall Dean's List Announced in MIS
Mellon Institute of Science
Michael J. Accetta, Kimberly A. Ames, 
Susan E. Angebranndt, Joshua A. Bloom, 
Allan E. Brockenbrough, Robert D. Carr, 
George K. Chin, James D. Chrisman, 
Robert F. Clemens, Steven W. Connely, 
Steven R. Costenoble, Michael J. Cullen, 
Gary R. Fabian, Edmund G. Flanders, 
Shep J. Friedman, John M. Frost, Gale 
Gammerdinger, Shafrira Goldwasser,
Gayle L. Grazer, John A. Grimm, Daniel 
I. Gup, James L. Hackett III, Anne L. 
Harrigan, David C. Hearn, Bret E. Jackson, 
Michael B. Jones, Cynthia D. Kidder, 
Morton Kligerman, Todd B. Knoblock, 
John R. Koslow, Ronald W. Kownacki, 
Michael R. Kristofic, Unjong Lee, Margaret
A. Lepley, Elizabeth P. Macy, Stacy A. 
Matz, Paul F. Mendier, Jeff R. Metzger, 
Lee W. Miller, Joseph S. Mitchell, Linda M.
Morini, Linda S. Naylor, Robert E. 
Newstadt, William E. Nielsen, Sherman G~. 
Page, Roger W. Patrick, Jeffrey A. Pepper, 
Raymond M. Planinsic, Charles R. Righter, 
Rhonda L. Righter, Glen M. Riley, Ronald
D. Sauers Jr. William E. Schmidt, Nancy 
Silverman, Lawrence R. Sita, Anita Slane, 
Dale R. Sleasman, Steven L. Smith, Robert
E. Stockdale, Michael A. Straub, John J. 
Szymanski, Scott P. Tietjen, Karen A. 
Tisinai, Christopher, Troianos, Richard J. 
Tucker, Catherine M. Walsh, Kurt C. 
Wiesen, Peter J. Wilcoxen, Thomas A. 
Wood, Scott A. Yost, Samuel G. Zingaro 
Jr., Judith I. Zinnikas.
Mini-courses Offered
Toor Reflects on Term
continued from page 6
When the committee that recommended 
that was working on the problem in the 
late sixties, I was arguing--I chaired that 
committee--I argued that what we want to 
do is to bring these issues into the whole 
engineering school, that all engineering stu­
dents ought to be acquainted with public 
policy issues because they'd just be so im­
portant in the practice of engineering. A 
sophisticated understanding of at least how 
these things work is just critical. '
I was dissuaded from that viewpoint, 
and we went in the direction of building a 
program, which ended up a department.
But one of the goals of that department is 
to subvert the entire engineering school. 
Although it's called a department, we 
planned it so that most everybody in it, all 
the faculty in it, have joint appointments. 
And the courses that are given impact a 
larger number of students than the stu­
dents in the department,. Essencially all 
the students in that department are major­
ing in both Engineering and Public Policy 
and in some other engineering department.
So the attempt there is really introduce 
to the whole school an understanding not 
only as we've always done, humanities and 
social sciences, but essencially public poli­
cy issues in our society.
continued from page 4
An Introduction to yoga as a release for 
the energies of your mind and body. 
Strictly for beginners, this course will 
. demonstrate the basics of yoga. 
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation 
Instructor: Earl Birdy & Mark Keppler 
Day & Time: M-F, March 12-16 12-1:30 
Fee: $ 1.00 registration fee 
Learn to save a life in this Red Cross certi­
fied course. Participants will be required to 
successfully complete both a written and 
practical exam and will be certified by 
both the American Red Cross and Ameri­
can Heart Association.
Photography for Beginners 
Instructor: Jerry McCavitt 
Day & Time: Monday, 7:00 PM
Location: TBA
F.ee: $1.00 registration fee 
Have you just bought a new SLR camera 
and still aren't quite sure of all of its po­
tential (and yours)? This is a basic how-to 
course that will allow you to explore 
the enjoyment of capturing the beauty 
around you.
Art Appreciation — Contemporary Images 
in Art
Instructor: Peter Wargo
Day & Time: Thursday, 7:00 PM
Location: TBA
Picasso, Jasper Johns and Robert Raushen- 
berg, big canvasses, George Segal and 
Environmental work, the New York scene 
... all will be explored in this look at con­
temporary art.
^llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllilllIlllllllllllllllIIIIIII||||||||||||||l|||||||||||||||||||||||||||(||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||i||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||U
While everyone is marveling at 
all the things computers can do- 
Hughes is teachina computers to domore.
is at the center of a virtual explosion of electronic information. It arises from a 
combination of data sensing, communications, and data processing and storage. We make 
sensors that operate on all parts of the electronic spectrum. We make computers and signal 
processors that tie all these together—that issue commands, or that store and present data 
for a growing number of uses. It is a technological revolution that is only just beginning to 
realize its potential to benefit people everywhere. one of the most pivotal, exciting periods 
in all human history
If you’re an EE, ME, AE, IE, Physics, Material Science or Computer Science major, 
you could become part of all this Areas of interest include aerospace, ground systems, 
industnal electronics, space and communications and 
research. But don’t worry about getting lost; we work in 
small groups where individual initiative is valued highly 
Contact your placement office Or, write to: Manager,
College Relations. Hughes Aircraft Company. P.O. Box 
90515, Bldg 100/445. Los Angeles, CA 90009.
I HUGHES iI IL.----------------------------------» J
Cftsling a n#w work] mth Mcimucs
An equal opportunity employer M f HC 
US Cititenghip required
IlilltlltllllHltililtilUilMtlUllliHlttHIIUtHIHIIIIIIIHIItillllHIIIIHillllllillllillllllltltllllflt

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE
SEATS
AVAILABLE
CIT-5 MIS-3 CFA-3 H8SS-3
AMS-1
ELECTIONS — MARCH 14 & 15
PETITIONS CAN BE 
OBTAINED AT 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
) '
ALL YOU NEED ARE TWENTY-FIVE 
SIGNATURES OF ACTIVITIES-FEE PAYING
STUDENTS
' m¦:—>I.: TV,I_."I.: t_I¦p>I.:
BE PRESIDENT FOR A YEAR 
PETITIONS DUE FEB. 27( 1979
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
CMU 
SKI ( 
CLUB
Cast becomes welcoming committee for American Dream'
by Dan Livak
Pittsburgh is fortunate to posess several 
progressive-theatre companies. One of the 
area's leading groups, Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatre, is currently presenting Edward 
Albee's The American Dream. When you 
enter the playhouse, your hand is grabbed 
by Mommy, Daddy and Grandma as they 
welcome you to their home. You immedi­
ately are engaged in conversation with the 
play's three main characters, and the per­
sonality of each comes tlirough vividly. 
Mommy, an American shrew-wife is loud 
and obnoxious; Daddy is fawning to please, 
and is almost as unattractive in his ingrat­
iating manner as Mommy is in her over­
powering friendliness. Grandma is the only 
pleasant one of the bunch, helping you to 
find an attractive place from which to 
watch the play. Being greeted by the 
characters is a gimmick, but it works well; 
after all, the stage is their home and you 
should be greeted by your hosts. More im- 
potantly however, it immediately sets the 
atmosphere for this intimate excursion into 
the life of an American family.
The play takes place in two locales-the 
living room of Daddy's (but really Mom­
my's) apartment, and upon a beachfront.. 
The audience must change their seats as the 
action of the play switches from one scene 
to another. Again, a gimmick is employed, 
and this one doesn't work quite as well as 
the previous one, but it is not totally with­
out redemption. As the audience's vantage 
point changes from scene to scene, so does 
Albee's viewpoint of the subject at hand, 
the American Dream.
Edward Albee (Who’s Afraid of Virginia 
Woolf?) is one of the foremost dramatists 
of contemporary American theatre; the in­
sight he presents throughout the play con­
cerning the American dream, achieving
Nancy Blum and Ramona Fischer make you feel like
happiness in modern times, and the plight 
of the aged, among other topics, demon­
strates why Albee posesses the reputation 
he does. The strength of the writing alone 
is sufficient cause to see the play; the per­
formances of the actors is yet another 
reason.
''Grandma (Ramona Fischer) presents the 
plight of the aged remarkably well; she is, 
at the same time, pitiful and inspiring,
part of the family in Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre
knowledgeable and foolish. Daddy (Harry 
Cohen) portrays the down-trodden, emas­
culated American husband perfectly, hid­
ing from mommy (Caryl Opshinsky) be­
hind his upside-down newspaper, parroting 
back her last utterance, in an attempt to 
prove how faithfully he listens to her dull 
speeches. Mommy is a shrew and delight­
fully so. At one point, Grandma harraggues 
Daddy for marrying such a dispicable wo­
man as Mommy, and Daddy retorts to
’s production of The American Dream.
Grandma that she is Mommy 's mother, not 
his; Grandma had, somehow, forgotten 
this little fact.
Mark Carson as the Young Man and 
Nancy Blum as Mrs. Barker round out the 
cast, and each puts forth a good perfor­
mance. The American Dream will continue 
to run at the Laboratory Theatre until 
March 10. Call 621-2876 for more informa­
tion.
6— TAR6N? A -u6p -c
omimn ogevnto 6s
hevar., ue-.uj—-u* 16,1979
TTe bu— w6ll leARe ok6bc pAuk6N? lc- A- 3u gM 
ANd w6ll ue-uuN Abcu- 1*00 rM.
TTe cc—- fcu -Te bu— ANd l6f- -6cke- 6— $10.00 
fcu membeu— ANd $11.00 fcu NcN-membeu—. '
eeN-Al 6— AN Add6-6cNAl $4.25.
vf ycu Aue 6N-eue—-ed, —6?N up w6ll be A- -Te 
ok6bc vNfcumA-6cN ae—k -T6— week.
hcu mcue 6NfcumA-6cN, pleA—e ccN-Ac-*
ne6l 687-4782 
Leucy 578-4231 
CAulA 578-42^26 
omm .OU THmem I
fuNded by o-udeN- oeNA-e
Af Great X ..you don't get what you pay for
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put your shear­
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Must guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in.
wicramns
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(FsyvR”woRVEg)Y
Bgh­ ’wry­ Fr'­ qO!j 
’vwpy­ lpu­ qOR; 
fso­ ;R^
COLORING
A—j W’FOOO f’-cc’ 
Jk’’fV:-ZNa JW­ qHAq— 
^<jR—HOO
:UkfcI NWk- fWC,U
PERMANENT^
Ug
W??guhomrho1

---------------------------------------------------

February 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 23
Bands come together", albums come out and tours come off
by Ted Smits and Alan Spert
A number of rock V roll band, have 
reunited recently. The remaining members 
of the Allman Brothers Band are in the 
studio recording a new album entitled En­
lightened Rouges. New members of the 
band appearing on this album are Dan 
Toler and David Goldflies. Ray Manzarek, 
Robbie Krieger and John Densmore played 
a reunion concert in Paris to commemorate 
what would be the 34th birthday of the 
late lead singer Jim Morrison. The three 
members of the Doors recently performed 
on An American Dream, an album that in­
cludes poems by Jim Morrison and some 
previously unreleased Door's songs. Three 
former members of the Byrds have released 
an album entitled McGuinn, Clark & Hill­
man. There is no talk yet of a tour, or of 
the possibility that David Crosby will also
rejoin the group. Aynsley Dunbar has 
joined the Jefferson Starship to replace 
drummer John Barbata, who was injured 
in an auto accident a few months ago.
Neil Young is filming a movie called 
Human Highway in „which none other 
than Devo appears. Appropriately enough, 
Devo performs in the nightmare episode of 
the film. Kenny Jones, drummer of the 
Small Faces, has joined the Who to replace 
Keith Moon. Kenny Jones has been work­
ing with the Who on the soundtrack to 
their movie. The movie, called Quadro- 
phenia will not contain any members of 
the group though all the music will be done 
by the band. A concert film of the Who 
entitled The Kids are Alright will be re­
leased in the summer along with a double 
album soundtrack. Pete Townshend, lead 
guitarist of the Who, will direct the music 
for a London production of Tommy, the
rock opera written by the Who a few years 
ago.
Many albums are scheduled to be re­
leased soon. Led Zeppelin has been record­
ing all summer in different parts of the 
world including Munich, Switzerland, Scot­
land, and Sweden. The album is at the mix­
ing stage and should come out at any time. 
The Rolling Stones are still in the studio 
working on a new album, no release date 
has been announced. The Cars will soon re­
lease their second album. Meatloaf's second 
album will be produced by Todd Rundgrun 
who produced the first album. Bruce 
Springsteen has reportedly decided to re­
lease a studio album instead of the live al­
bum many of his fans are waiting for. A 
live Cheap Trick album will be released 
shortly and an import album of their ap- 
pearences in Japan is available in some re­
cord stores. Fleetwood Mac is preparing
a double album that will be issued in the 
spring. The Bee Gees new album Spirits 
Having Flown, will have the most exten­
sive promotional campaign ever given a
new album. Briefcase Full of Blues, the 
debut album of the Blues Brothers, went 
platinum in only four weeks.
Some good rock 'n' roll acts will be in 
Pittsburgh in the coming months. Santana 
will be at the Stanley March 2nd, Stephen 
Stills will be there the 24th of March and 
Sha Na Na will appear the 16th and 17th 
of February. All three of these artists 
perfbrmed at a concert almost ten years 
ago in Woodstock, New York. Finally, Sid 
Vicious, former bass player of the Sex 
Pistols, was found dead last week by his 
Mother. He reportedly died of a heroin 
overdose after attending a party in cele­
bration of his release on bail from charges 
of assault.
'Parallel Lines' defines Blondie's sound
by Alan Spero A
Blondie's new album, Parallel Lines, 
marks one more step towards stardom for 
this premier New Wave band. In fact, it 
would be disappointing if Parallel Lines 
doesn't achieve its due recognition. The 
band's third release, combines the pop- 
ballad style of the fifties (present on their 
last LP, Plastic Letters) with electric rock 
and avant-garde, or, as lead singer Deb­
orah Harry calls it, "heterosexual, con­
temporary electronic music."
Blondie consists of six members, five 
male, one female. The songwriting chores 
on the album are somewhat shared, but the 
overall presence of singer/sex symbol Deb­
orah Harry is undeniable. She is what 
Blondie is all about. The rest of the band 
(Chris Stein and Frank Infante on guitars, 
Jimmy Destri on keyboards, Clem Burke 
on drums, and Nigel Harrison on bass) are 
all very capable musicians whose combined 
style define Blondie's sound, but they are 
not the focal point of the band. There are 
no blazing guitar solos, booming drum 
rolls, or tiring jams. All the instruments are 
understated and put together with pinpoint 
precision to surround and display Harry's 
versatile voice. It's her voice that makes a 
song hard rock or soft pop, that seduces 
the listener with a silky whisper or spurns 
him with angry insults. And that's what 
makes this album so perfect.
The album opens up with the group's 
current single Hanging On The Telephone, 
a great adrenalin rock and roll song with a 
slightly seductive touch to it. As a single, 
it could break the ice for the group in this 
country (they have already attained a large 
following in Europe). The album also has 
a disco single on it, but it's more than just 
a drum beat, three chords, and two words.
It's called Heart of Glass, and the song con­
tains some nifty duel guitar work plus 
clever lyrics about deteriorating love.
Once I had a love 
and it was a gas
soon turned out had a heart of glass
seemed like the real thing 
only to find 
mucho mistrust 
Loves’s gone behind.
Blondie takes their lyrics seriously, they 
don't just throw them away on pedestrian 
imagery. A perfect example is Fade Away 
And Radiate, a haunting electric ballad 
about wasting away in a television dream 
world.
Ooooo baby watchful lines 
vibrate soft in brainwave time 
Silver pictures move so slow 
golden tubes, faintly glow
electric faces seem to merge 
Hidden voices mock your words 
fade away and radiate.
The song also has guest guitaring from ex- 
King Crimson leader, Robert Fripp.
Just Go Away shows a more humorous 
side to Blondie's lyrics.
Ya got a big mouth 
and Vm happy to see 
your foot is firmly entrenched 
where a molar should be
If you talk much louder 
you could get an award 
from the federal 
communications board.
Deborah Harry's versatile vocals are the focal point of Blondie.
The rest of the album is comprised of soft 
ballads, fifties rock V roll, and even a little 
Ramones-styled punk rock is evident in 1 
Know But I Don't Know.
Parallel Lines is good music with a fresh 
approach and dynamic vocalizing, all too 
rare in this age of ready-made rock 'n' roll.
Rod Stewart impersonator puts Kentucky on the 'Fritz'
On the evening of January 17th, a 
young man checked into the Ramada Inn 
in Cave City, Kentucky and registered as 
Rod Stewart. The fact that the guest spoke 
with no trace of a British accent aroused 
the curiosity of hotel manager Ruth Nall 
who, while not an expert on today's rock 
stars, was aware that Rod Stewart is from 
Britain. "Stewart" explained that he had 
been taking lessons to get rid of his accent 
as he had become an American citizen.
Stewart" proceeded to hand out "tour 
passes" to residents of the town each in­
scribed "Free Pass, Rod Stewart 1979 
Tour" and signed each one with Rod Stew­
art's name.
The man asked Ms. Nall to contact the
local newspaper (there isn't a daily in Cave 
City, so she contacted the Glasgow Daily 
Times in neighboring Glasgow, Ky.). A 
reporter was dispatched to the Inn and 
conducted an interview and photo session 
with "Stewart". The reporter, who is also 
not well versed in popular music, became 
suspicious when "Stewart" asked to see 
the pictures he had taken; the two made an 
appointment to meet the next day to ex­
amine the photos.
The reporter proceeded to contact War­
ner Bros. Records in Burbank where he 
eventually spoke to Bob Merlis, the com­
pany's publicity director. Merlis suggested 
that the reporter ask "Stewart" the nick­
name Rod had given his assistant Tony
Toon. The answer given was "Fritz", 
while the real Stewart would have unhes­
itatingly answered "Annabelle".
The fraudulent rooster coiffed man im­
mediately checked out of the hotel using 
travelers checks with the name "Darryl 
Craiger". Stewart/Craiger explained that 
he used an alias to assure his anonimity 
while traveling. He also said that an auto 
wreck had stranded him in Cave City after 
a trip to Atlanta to firm plans for a U.S. 
tour.
Further research revealed that a man 
purporting to be Rod Stewart had two 
days earlier entered a music store in Rowl­
ing Green, Ky (birthplace of the Everly
Brothers) and looked over thousands of 
dollars worth of equipment with a prom­
ise to come back and purchase some. He 
never returned.
And where was the real Rod Stewart 
during all of this tumolt in the Blue Grass 
State? In Hawaii, of course, taking a vaca­
tion from the world of rock touring as he 
had just completed an extensive European 
and UX. tour and last week's UNICEF 
TV special. When he was reached for com­
ment by Mr. Toon a.k.a. "Fritz" and/or 
"Annabelle", the real Rod commented 
from his seaside retreat; "I'm very con­
cerned about this. I certainly don't want 
anyone running around acting like me 
except me''.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24—TARTAN—February 13, 1979
Dance company comes back
The Nikolais Dance Theatre returns to 
Pittsburgh for its second appearance in 
Heinz Hall on February 19 at 8 PM.
The Pittsburgh Dance Council brought 
the Nikolais Dance Theatre to Pittsburgh 
for the first time two years ago, at which 
time they played to an enthusiastic audi­
ence and received raves from the critics. 
The Pittsburgh Dance Council is presenting 
this company once again as part of their 
series.
The directive force behind the success 
of this contemporary company is Alwin 
Nikolais. His genius has not created merely 
a dance company, but rather, a “total the- 
tre” experience. Mr. Nikolais has trans­
formed his dance presentations into a mul­
ti-media art form, fusing shape, sound, mo­
tion, color and light. His responsibilities do 
not cease with his ultra-innovative choreog- 
graphy. The costumes, lighting design, stag­
ing, electronic sound score and projec­
tions are all of his creation. Mr. Nikolais 
utilized unique patterns in lighting and 
projections to enhance his presentations. 
The electronic scores are composed to fit 
the choreography.
Three works will be danced by the ten 
member troup representing the newer Nik­
olais choreography. The program will open 
with Castings, choreographed in 1978 and
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con­
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
premiered at the Beacon Theatre in New 
York. In Castings, the dancers represent 
machine parts. The metallic connotation 
is immediately grasped by the silvery ar­
mor-like costumes worn by,the dancers. 
The dancers are set on platforms and work 
within the restricted small space upon 
which their bodies rest.
Gallery, also premiered in 1978, during 
the Nikolais Dance Theatre Broadway sea­
son in New York has as its theme a shoot­
ing gallery. It depicts a day in the life of 
the dolls who are the moving target in a 
shooting gallery. The dancers are encased 
in huge, pink sacks that bounce and stretch 
like a wad of bubble gum. Masks attached 
to parts of their body that appear to be 
floating heads and “targets” that slide and 
swivel with ball-bearing smoothness. In 
Gallery, Nikolais has created his own varia­
tion of the ballet in which dolls come to 
life. There is a great deal of fun and games 
in this work.
The program will close with Styx, chor­
eographed in 1976. There are nine sections 
to this exploration into death. Mr. Nikolais 
in this work does not offer a medieval 
dance of death but rather suggests the jol­
lity of Halloween. The work has many 
multi-media effects.
The Nikolais Dance Theatre perform­
ances have been compared to “light” 
shows. Mr. Nikolais is the genius in the 
multi-media concept using a blend of the 
imagination and vitality which creates an
experience for the audience, employing full 
use of the senses.
Tickets are available at Heinz Hall, Gim- 
bels and Kaufmann's. Discounts to groups, 
students, and senior citizens.
For further information, phone 355- 
0330.
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE
presents the
FRIDAY NITE STEAK
at
KILTIE CAFE
Every Friday Dinner on Line I 
We re offering
USDA CHOICE 8 OZ. 
NLW YORK STRIP STEAK
COOKED TO ORDER 
for just $1.25 over 
honored meal contracts
This action is a result of a Student Suggestion 
made at the President's Random Student Lunch Program.
'Etudes' most polished yet
by Syd Price
Etudes is often described as a themeless 
ballet. It is also plotless, characterless, 
without scenery or emotion, and wholly 
lacking in interes value.
Created in 1948 by chore ographer/Bal- 
let Master Harold Lander for the Royal 
Danish Ballet, Etudes is intended to “illus­
trate the dancers’ long, arduous climb to 
the top where they arrive at the fullness of 
their art and technique.” That there is a 
ballet learning progression here cannot be 
denied—the dance movements, starting at 
the barre and moving on to the more com­
plicated floor work, are recognizable even 
to the first year ballet student. However 
the viewer looking for a “long, arduous 
climb” finds instead a battement, a plie, an 
entrechat, all effortlessly performed. That 
is, a spectator looking for an understanding 
of the dancer and the art of dance is pre­
sented with a picture-perfect interpretation 
rather than a reality. There is no sweat, no 
aching muscles, no battle wounds. Nothing 
but pretty girls in starched tutus and 
princely males in tights.
Without characters, plot, scenery, 
serious music (the music, “by Knudage 
Riisager after Czerny,” is a bit of whimsical 
fluff), or emotional appeal, the success of 
this piece rests solely on the choreography. 
While I am not unkindly disposed to the 
school of thought that preaches the beauty 
of pure movement, the choreography is too 
hackneyed for Etudes to hold interest even 
on this basic level.
Like the well-known pas de deux from 
such classic ballets as Le Corsaire and Don 
Quixote, the piece is a showcase for dan­
cers’ talents. The former ballets, though, 
are more conducive to patient viewing be­
cause they give the audience characters to 
sympathize with, and a plotline to occupy 
simple thoughts. Etudes, on the other
hand, .gives us columns of people all dress­
ed alike, grouped symmetrically, and mov­
ing in unison. The grand dance sequences 
that were new in the middle of the 1800’s, 
when Corsaire and Quixote were created, 
ought to have lost appeal to modern chore­
ographers, if not to modern audiences who 
seem to delight in endless repetitions of 
familiar movements. Yet a good part of 
this ballet consists of dancers reeling off 
one pirouette after another with such fre­
quency that even the enthusiast of sheer 
technique must stifle a yawn. This is, of 
course, attended by the requisite number 
of bravura male leaps (with the new wave 
of ballet fanaticism can one really be daz­
zled by anything less than a Baryshnikov?) 
and dainty little ladies perched on tippy- 
toes. Dare I say that I’ve seen it all before?
Paradoxically, the production of Etudes 
is the most polished Pittsburgh Ballet The­
atre has presented this season. With the ex­
ception of one entrance where the lines of 
dancers looked as though they were put in 
place by a drunk, the grouping and symme­
try was well executed throughout.
Principal dancer Miguel Campaneria de­
serves special mention for his performance 
of this pure technique work. It was pleas­
antly surprising to see his leaps, entrechats, 
and pirouettes so exactingly executed, as 
he has in the past left me unimpressed. In 
general he seems to fare better in light­
hearted roles; for all its faults, Etudes 
showed him off to his best advantage.
Hopefully the precision displayed by 
the dancers in Etudes will carry over to 
works with the added dimensions of plot, 
theme, and character. An equally impres­
sive performance of a more comprehensive 
ballet would give me glad cause to express 
praise for this company, which I have 
hitherto dispensed sparingly.
Put lie jfldmimstration (Dgj.
present's
UNITED SftTES SENATOR
WILLIAM V.RDIH
[ R. - DELAWARE] 
CO-AUTHOR KEMP/ROTH 
TAX LIMITATION BILL 
WILL SPEAK ON
MID-TER SA ECO Iftucy NGSYDUU
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 15 
7.00 PM.
PORTER HALL , ROOM 100
?funded by Student Act ivit ie* ,StTPA,M&SS

---------------------------------------------------

Hobart carries Tartans to 1 and 1 week
CMU got off to a good start in the be­
ginning of the second half, but then some 
bad breaks befell them, namely an ankle 
injury to Mariano DeFilippo which sent 
““Flip" to the bench for over 6 minutes, 
during which time the Spartans pulled back 
to within one point, 61-60 with four 
minutes left to play, DeFilippo reentered 
the game and CMU went to their four cor­
ners offense which they executed to per­
fection as the Tartans widened the margin 
to 7.
CMU out shot Case 54% to 44% from 
the floor, and outrebounded the Spartans 
44-30 . The Tartans' next game will be at 
home against Thiel tomorrow. Also, 
an important game will be coming on Sa­
turday, Feb. 17, as the Tartans take on 
first place Allegheny at home.
CMUFGFT-APts.
Hobart94-622
Hufnagel102-322
Hofmeister32-28
DeFilippo35-511
Belechak53-513
Donahoe01-21
Lewis00-00
Stefanick00-02
Ellis10-02
Total3117-2379
Leading scorer in both games Buddy Hobart goes for a jumper.
Swim team's hopes fall short
Coleman won the race, as he remained un­
defeated in his favorite event. Nick Watts 
and Tom Barr finished second and third in 
the 100 free. Maureen Fernandez complet­
ed the Tartans' three entries. Joe Dickey 
and Dave Watterson Finished second and 
third respectively in the 200 backstroke.
Jim Matysek's best events are the 500 
free and the 200 breaststroke. Swimming 
both of these in the meet is difficult 
because they are back to back. With only 
four minutes rest between the events, Mat- 
ysek took second in the 500 freestyle, and 
returned to win the 200 breaststroke. The 
closest the Tartans came to Case Western 
was after the 400 freestyle relay, which 
was stacked with sprinters Nick Watts, 
Todd Reinke, Joe Dickey and Harry Cole­
man. The comeback was not successful, 
but it seemed as though Case Western was 
psyched and peaked for this meet. CMU 
begins its peak this week as the team pre­
pares for two difficult home meets-W&J 
and Allegheny-- and the PAC 
on March 1-3. The Tartans will be ready 
for Case Western and hope for a successful 
rematch.
by Denny Postufka
The CMU men's basketball team was 
upset by John Carroll University on 
Wednesday night at Carroll Gym by a score 
of 76-73. The loss dropped the Tartans' re­
cord in the P.A.C. to 6-3 and 7-8 overall.
Despite the loss, CMU outshot the Blue 
Streaks from the floor, 53% to 41%, but 
the key statistic was the number of turn­
overs. The Tartans had 17 turnovers to 
J.C.U's 5.
The Tartans came out firing in the first 
half, building up their biggest lead, 27-14, 
midway through the first half. At this 
point, head coach Dave Maloney started 
clearing his bench, which seemed to be a 
good move at the time, to give his non­
starters some experience. The plan back­
fired though as CMU watched its 13 point 
«lead dwindle to 5, 39-34, at the half. 
Chuck Pap helped bring the Blue Streaks 
back, scoring. 14 of his 18 points in the 
first half.
The beginning of the second half was 
just the opposite of the beginning of the 
first half. JCU came out and scored four 
unanswered buckets to take a 42-39 lead 
and it was neck and neck from there on in. 
Three of those first four baskets came off 
steals by JCU's Terry McCaffery, who 
attacked Mariano DeFilippo from behind, 
and swiped the ball each time. Ail three
John Carroll
McCafferey
Kelly
Robertson
Pap
Pacek
Deighan
Kunzen
Dimattio
Wardeiner
Pts.
20
2
9
18
15
6
6
steals were apparent fouls but CMU 
coudn't seem to get a break from the 
officials all night long. Midway through the 
second half the Tartans got into, foul 
trouble when Dave
Hofmeister, who lead the Tartans with 10 
rebounds, committed his fourth foul and 
was removed from the game. With 4:15 re­
maining in the contest, Larry Hufnagel 
fouled out. At this point, McCaffery hit a 
jumper for JCU to give the Blue Streaks a
63-62. lead and the Tartans were never to
regain the lead.
CMU started closing the gap once again 
when DeFilippo hit a 15 footer with 45 
seconds remaining to move the Tartans to 
within one, 74-73. John Carroll then went 
into a freeze and Hofmeister committed a 
deliberate foul, his fifth personal, in hopes 
that JCU would miss the foul shot an 
CMU a final shot. Unfortunately, Jim 
Pacek hit both ends of a one on one 
uation to give JCU a 76-73 lead and
put it in the bag for the Blue
McCafferey led all scorers with 20 
points, 16 in the second half.
Hobart led CMU with 16 points. Another 
key factor in the loss was the continuation 
of La«ry Hufnagel's scoring slump, 
scored 11 points, however, but again that is 
well under his average.
CMU FG FT-A Pts.
Hobart 7 2-3 16
Hufnagel 5 1-3 11
Hofmeister 6 1-2 13
Defilippo " 4 4-4 12
Belechak 4. 0-0 8
Donohoe 2 0-0 4
Underhill 0 0-0 0
Stefanik 2 1-1 5
2 0-0 4
0-0 0 
73
by Denny Postufka
The CMU men's basketball team got 
back on the winning road at Case Western 
Reserve on Saturday with a 79-72 victory 
over the Spartans. The win puts the 
Tartans at 7-3 in the PAC and 8-8 overall.
Leading the way for CMU was Buddy 
Hobart who scored his career high at CMU 
of 22 points, shooting an outstanding 
69% from the floor. Larry Hufnagel was 
in form, also scoring 22 points and 
g down a game high 14 rebounds. 
The Tartans jumped out to an early 
lead, and led by as many as 13 in the 
rst half. Dave Hofmeister got in early 
foul trouble but Hobart and Hufnagel 
up the load, scoring 12 points 
apiece in the first half. The Tartans led 
41-43 at the half •
Turnovers have hampered the team throughout the season.
Women's
by Stell
On Saturday afternoon the women's 
basketball team played California State at 
the Tech Gym. Carnegie -Mellon lost the 
game by the score of 73-57. There were 53 
fouls, 37 by California and 16 by CMU. 
The Tartans went to the foul line 43 times. 
Terry Preskar was ejected from the game 
because of a flagrant foul. She was accused 
of "deliberately" pushing one of Cal 
State's mightiest forwards. When Coach 
Shenot pleasantly questioned the call, she 
was slapped with a technical. Shari Burton 
w^s sensational at stopping California's 
inside game. She blocked 7 shots and 
scored 11 points. Kassie Segmiller was tre­
mendous scoring 32 points. She is averag-
uck continues
ing 24 points per game. On Wednesday 
night, the Tartans lost an embalming 
game to Carlow. Ahead by the score <>t ^4-
3 midway through the first ha!: « ...low 
got hot and by halftime CMU wa> ; .n by 
the score of 33-28. The second hall temain- 
ed close but the Tartans never got the lead. 
With one minute left to play, the Tartans 
were within two points of tying the yame. 
but a couple of turnovers gave the Tartans 
their fourth loss of the season. The final 
score was 65-56. Scoring in double figures 
for CMU were Terry Preskar with 10 points 
and Kassie Segmiller with 20 points. The 
women have two home games this week. 
On Wednesday night, they "play Geneva 
at 6:00 PM and on Saturday, they are out 
for revenge when they tip off against Car- 
low at 12 noon.
by Patti Miller
On Saturday, the Carnegie-Mellon swim 
team travelled to Cleveland for a dual meet 
against Case Western. The Tartan medley 
relay team of Dave Waterson. Jim Matysek, 
Harry Coleman, and Tom Barr remained 
undefeated this season with avictory in the 
opening event. Wilson Boyce took a third 
place in the 1000 freestyle as the Tartans' 
only entry. Nick Watts swam the 200 free 
in his personal best time this season, taking 
a first place and putting the Tartans ahead 
for the last time of the meet. Coach Donna 
Pecman expected to fall behind early, but 
Carnegie-Mellon's last attempt at a come­
back fell short as the final score read 59- 
54.
Todd Reinke swam the 50 yard free­
style, and with turn corrections this past 
week, did his best time of the season. 
Senior Joe Dickey took a second place in 
the 200 IM. The most exciting event of the 
day was the diving. This year Bobby Frye 
has practised two hours a day, and it paid 
off. On Saturday, Bobby's combined requi­
red and optional diving scores qualified 
him for the Division III National Cham­
pionships. Congratulations to Bobby Frye.
In the 200 butterfly, co-captain Harry
BB I
FT-A
0-2
0-0
34
0-0
9-11
2-2
4:6
0-0
Case
Tsipis
Carter
Wile
Jackson
FT-A
0-0
0-0
1-5
5-6
0-0
Pts.
10
<
5
19
2
10
10

---------------------------------------------------

Mn|Un Da«X wtvtivn QmIIh u
io»oo 41 i«*«sfc oi?b
Really Free Checking. This is Mellon Banking'
i Member FDIC
faoaaCSSKKSKSSSSS*XSSSSS3BOB»ttaaaa6SSSKSSXSSXSSX»SSSSSXSS3^^
Skaters get skunked
Hawk E. Fite
The CMU men's hockey team travelled 
to Cleveland to face Cleveland State Uni­
versity last Saturday and came up short, 
5-3. The loss puts CMU's record at 6-3-3 
overall.
CSU's Les Wilson kicked off the scoring 
at 2:05 into the first period. His tally was 
answered by a goal from CMU's Mark 
Jonnatti assisted Jeff Reh. Tough defensive 
play kept goal scoring to zero until 6:15 
into the second period when CSU's Dufus 
Dombrowski tallied a goal. Three minutes 
later, the Tartans were down, 4-1.
The Tartans regrouped and came back 
with two unanswered goals in the third 
period. Jonnatti and Skip Wallace assisted 
Rick Smith for one of these goals. Jeff Reh 
scored the third and last goal for the Tar­
tans assisted by Jonnatti, and Smith. 
CMU's comeback was stiffled, however, 
when CSU's Jabor Weigand burnt the Tar­
tans with one final goal which came at 
7:07 into the third period. The rest of the 
game was a classic defensive struggle.
The Tartans will face IUP at the Civic 
Arena, next Sat., Feb. 17, at 1:00 P.MCleveland
And to pay for all the 
things that aren’t, Mellon Bank 
offers you really free personal 
checking.
Mellon Banks really free 
checking is convenient. Take 
our monthly statement. We list 
your checks in the order you 
write them instead of the order 
we receive them. Which 
makes balancing your check­
book a lot simpler. And you 
can have your other Mellon 
Bank services summarized on 
the same monthly statement.
Then there’s your free 
Mellon Banking Card. It can 
be used to make deposits and 
withdrawals at our many 
banking machines any time of 
the day or night, 7 days a 
week.
What’s more, Mellon 
Bank’s free checking gives you 
the opportunity to take advan­
tage of some other very 
worthwhile service options. 
Like a Payment Savings Ac­
count, where your money 
earns interest, compounded 
daily, until the day you use it. 
And The Payment Phone, 
which lets you pay your bills 
by telephone-or move money 
from your Payment Savings to 
your checking account — 
whenever you prefer. And 
Personal Cash Reserve, a loan 
you make to yourself 
whenever you need it.
Talk to your Mellon 
Banker soon about opening a 
Free Personal Checking Ac­
count. No minimum balance. 
No monthly maintenance 
charge. No per-check charge.
After all, why not take 
advantage of one of the few 
things in life that’s still really 
free.

---------------------------------------------------

"At Scott, we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth Is your goal, achievement of that goal is 
realized throygh doing Experience comes from 
doing—putting your ideas to work, enjoying respon­
sibility, and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads join us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skills—to 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop’ It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer, m/f
Contact your placement office for informationSCOTT
WED. FEB. 14
WHERRETT ROOM 
4:30 pm
SCIENCE TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY 
LECTURE SERIES
The U. S. Programs of Military R & D 
What For and How Much?" 
Professor Franklin A. Long, 
Cornell University
like th>s 
We
» 95 PH»®"'
19 Soecif|c corsnotice- i>Pe
today
, your
We offer Si H Green 
Stamp certificates on 
rentals in all 50 U.S. states.
NATIONALCAR RENTALUsoughsE ”sp -rhosE
CO-SPONSORED BY: SIGMA XI AND THE 
PROGRAM IN TECHNOLOGY & HUMANITIES
* aLmm
661-2772
EDUCATIONAL 
CENTERi
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference 
Call Days, Eves & Weekends

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-TARTAN-February 13, 1979
FORBES TRAVEL
an officiaLCMU Travel Agency
COMPLETE TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS
"Never a Service Charge"
— COMPUTERIZED RESERVATIONS immediate availabilities and confir­
mation of flights
— FREE TICKET DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS—full time delivery 
service
»
— Payment by Transportation request form for authorized University 
- travel
— We accept all Major Credit Cards
AIRLINES 
HOTELS 
CAR RENTALS 
CRUISES 
RAIL
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:
Airlines, hotels auto rentals 
CMU extension #2999 
or
421-2500
Vacation Planning 
521-7300
WWYOFFICERSGET RESPONSI BUTY FAST.
EARN OVER *650A MONTH 
RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 
SENIOR YEAR.
If you’re a junior or senior 
majoring in sciences like 
math, physics or engineering, 
the Navy has a program you 
should know about.
It’s called the Nuclear 
Propulsion Officer Candidate- 
Collegiate Program 
(NUPOC-C for short) and if 
you qualify, you can earn as 
much as $650 a month right 
through your senior year.. 
Then after 16 weeks of 
Officer Candidate School, 
you’ll get an additional year 
of advanced technical 
education. This would cost 
thousands in a civilian school, 
but in the Navy, we pay you.
It isn’t easy. There are 
fewer than 400 openings and 
only one of every six 
applicants will be selected. 
But if you make it, you’ll 
have unequaled hands-on
responsibility,, a $24,000 ' 
salary in four years, and gilt- 
edged qualifications for jobs 
both in the Navy and out.
Ask your placement 
officer to set up an interview 
with a Navy representative 
when he visits the campus, 
or contact your Navy 
representative at 800-841-8000, 
or send in the coupon. The 
NUPOC-C Program. Not 
only can it help you complete 
college. It can be the start of 
an exciting career.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY
INFORMATION CENTER
P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803
Yes, I’d like more information on the NUPOC-C Program ( 00 ).
Name________________________________First I Pleaée Print I l.as
Address______________________________
City__________________________________
State_____
Age-----------
B637
^Graduation Date.
AMajor/Minor___
Phone Number___
CNP2/8
______________Zip_
. fCollege/Uni versity_
.?Grade Point-

---------------------------------------------------

Happy Valentine's Day
Dear Adam:
You'll be my valentine forever or at 
least until February break! "Do it to
it."
B.
James:
I love you! Joanie
JoanJ:
You may not know me but I will always 
love you.
Your Mystery Man
Hannah,
My life has been unbearable without you. 
Please be my Valentine.
Edward
To TV,
You're the most wonderful girl I've ever 
known. I love you very'much.
T
My Dearest Russ,
Stay with me Your Sexy Mama isn't 
as sexy as me.
VAN
To the Guys on 5-E:
Do you know who this is?
The Clams
To Kimmie and Joann, We sure do make
a good set. Happy Applied Math and 
Valentines Day. Love Mitch
Happy Valentines Day. Deep enough?
Socks
Jake, don't forget the T.J/s D.C.D.
Brothers and Pledges of SAE, Happy
Valentines Day. Good luck in Greek Sing 
and Spring Carnival—we recognize you! 
Love, Linda, Ruth, Chris,Teresa, Anne,
Pam, Anna, Terri, Marijo, Nancy, MaryJane 
David
I love you even with your pointed head. 
Happy Valentine's Day!
L.A.
Reuel, John & the gang, "Eat Leather"
Happy Valentines Day. Love,
The Kappa Kappa Gamma Crusaders 
Chud Ze Stud:
Will you be my valentine? R.S.V.P.
Wallace
To the 2nd Floor Donner Hall Residents;
I love you just the way you are. Be my 
Valentines,
Debbie
To The Sisters and Pledges of Delta Gam­
ma, Happy Valentine's Day! I*m glad too.
Beth's Front
To Goosey Stave,
Shtunky loves and vants you forever.
G.B.
Dear Security,
I love you all but I still may paint the 
fence.
TISH:
Just wanted to say Happy Heart Day 
and that I loves ya! Do I have to sign this 
too??
Dearest Musty,
You make my pears burst into bloom.
Signed the plushest pair in town
64
Chere Christine: Je te souhaite de bonheur
sur ce jour des amants. Tu es ma speciale 
amoreuse. de ton amoreux
Cream,
Remember "the song!"
Love,
Peaches
My Dearest Russ
I love you with all my heart and soul, 
so why don't you just forget the girl 
•n A-1 and come to my room instead.
Your Sexy Mama
Disco Queen:
How many ways I love thee? 1 /0 says it all.
A token of how much I'd like you to be 
mine: Strawberry letter 3/2/59 with great 
ANTICIPATION.
Waffle King
Wildebeest,
Save one of those big fat slobbery kisses 
and a love-fart for me for Valentine's Day, 
hear?
You guessed it, 
Katrina
To Peaches,
Don't stare - I'll tickle.
Cream
To.Prince John:
You're a prince. How apt!
Dear Sherri,
Let me stand next to your fire! Happy 
Valentine's Day from John Thomas and me.
Love CAZ 
To my three men of Bartlett Street,
Hap^py Valentine's Day. I love you. Hugs 
and kisses.
Lisa
Dear Ray,
There is not enough space on this whole 
page to tell you how much I love you.
Kelly
To D.B. Miller,
I'd rather be dead than red.
The Black Hand 
Iceman I ALASKya to my igloo anytime.
Wine and cheese? Happy Valentine's Day
Icewoman
Twerp:
Thanks for being there sometimes when 
nobody else seems to care.
Love,
The Big Froq with the Bigger Mouse 
To Cindy,Stick around, sweets, the best is
yet to come. Luv Ya, girl J Dave
Greta — Please don't tell Abigail about
those long winter evenings spent with Ter­
rance. It'll break her heart —
Abe's Valentine, Emily 
To Ranfaz from Design,
I love your face, body, and feminine 
glow, be my Valentine forever! P.L.A.B.S.
Anxiously, 
Onraz from Chemistry 
Chipper — I love you! Ruth
GC,
Happy anniversary, gorgeous. Being 
with you has made the past year the happi­
est of my Kfe.
Love,
TV
Dear Damsel, Wow!!! Ton-to's Prediction
came true! Aren't you g lid I can read 
minds?? Lots of Love, The Lone Ranger 
To A Strawberry Knucklehead,
My ESP tells me your lucky number is 3, 
and your lucky color is RED, I Love You,.
A Nervous Wreck
DAVID:
California is too far away. I miss you.
Love, Linda
Monica Anne,
Happy First Valentine's Day.
Lee
Poo,
Jerry is a Loser. I Love You. Why don't we 
go to bed together?
WOJ
Clay
F—k You!
BB
J.I.B.:
To the girl with the biggest heart, 
warmest lips,cutest caboose and longest 
list I know.
NUMBER whatever. 
Les, something red(read) Dawn
L.H. I love you even when you're mean
D.D.
To Missy, Goo, Melanie, Diane, Chris, and
Lori-Happy Valentine's Day! N.Y.C. is 
Number One—
• Love, Thé Imp Man
George,
Wanna skrunch my Rollos or Caramel 
Cream on Fifth Avenue? Happy V.D.
Forever Yours, 
Cindv
To my Boy Wonder,
I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU!
And I DO want to see your face ever again! 
Love and screams, Ms. John-Mkhelle with
a DKLS
Dear HONBUN,
Roses are red 
Violets are blue
Every night I want to (bieep) you.
Be my Valentine, Hubby
Rushe:
Happy Valentine's Day, darling. Wish 
you could be in my arms again tonight. I 
love you!
That Jewish Girl
To Lynn, f
You made me a real closet case. Happy 
Valentine's Day.
Love Worm
IMPMAN:
Happy Valentine's Day!
Love, 4-C-5 
Carolyn, Cherie, Karen Ann, Mary:
Anywhere, I'll always like to touch you 
there. Happy Valentine's Day from your 
Uncle.
Julie Vaughn and Karen Ann Yaksich:
-Happy Valentine's Day from Barnacle Bill 
the Sailor. Anchor's Aweigh from you 
know who.
Little Brother Schmear,
Happy Belated Birthday and remember 
to call home ... Wolter always forgets to 
remind you.
Love, Big Sister Beanit
Goosey B.,
You are the cutest thing that ever lived. 
Happy Valentine's Day. I love you.
G.S.
To my tennis friend I
I hope to see you more often,than I 
do now. I think you are the finest 
thing this side of heaven.
PSC
Valentine's greetings of love ancTadoration
to her Imperial Lynnessand Czarina. From 
her humble and devoted servent
Christopher Anthony 
Red—Being my valentine does not consti­
tute moral turpitude (necessarilv). N.C.
Dear Eric:
I yearn for you tragicly.
To the Brothers and Pledges of Delta Up-
silon;
You have soft pillows.
Slime
Mark: Happy Valentine's Day
Schnookie!! Also, an early Happy 21st 
Birthday wish. All my love always,
Judy
Ma chere Carol,
I love you too! Will you marry me when 
I retire from this sporting life?
Guy La Fleur
Message:
Renee Day? Valentines Day;
Happy Renee? It's Valentines Day! 
Happy Day? With Renee J. ,
Happy Valentines Day, Renee.
Love. Bill
Bozo,
Happy Valentine's Day ... A Secret Ad­
mirer.
I'd like to be with Rose-Maree in an
Octopus' Garden. 'Please come with me.
KLIM
XT
Roofie:
Happy Valentine's Day!
Wallie
To my favorite turtle:
Hope your roommate will be at Indiana 
this weekend.
C.L.W.
Oh Dino, you're so wonderful!
Love, Alpha
To the cute, little, biackrhaired girl in 6-B­
IO: I wish you would take notice and pick 
me as your favorite valentine. From your 
hurt and rejected Charlie Brown.
To the little one.
You don't know me...
But I'm watching 
you.
Peaches—with or without cream you're the 
bestest! Be my valentine this year and 
every year. Love always, your Kumquat 
Amy:
Despite what you think.
Job Seeker 
BABY-BABY: LOVE YOU LOTS!
BABY
Hot Dog
Kansas City could be better.
To Anne, The Bammer, and Lu Ann(alpha-
betical); You're the greatest. Love you all. 
Happy Valentines Day Mitchey
To the Brothers and Pledges of PiLam-
What more could a girl ask for? Happy Val­
entine's Day! Love, KAYAK 
Dear Marcella, We think your the Betz RA
around. Happy Valentines Day. Love,
4-B and Mitch
Yak:
I never put my hands on "them". Hope my 
thumb tasted good.
Happy Valentine's Day from your favorite
Uncle.
Dave:
Your PERFECT shirt may have shrunk 
but you're still tops on my list.
I love you, Lydia
To My Little Teamster,
Life's finer treasures 
Are all too few.
That's why, I guess,
There's just one you!
Cakes
O Porky, Dear, Although it's time.
You won't be our valentine.
Your Love for doughnuts is unsurpassed 
except by the pounds which you've 
amassed. M.A.,T.D.,D.Z.,L.N.,G.D.
Luana,
I think you're cute aid funny, and a 
wonderful person, too!
Washington—
To Our Little Sisters:
We Love you all and think you'r the great­
est. Thanks for everything!
The Brothers and Pledges of Delta Tau
Delta.
Joelyn, The first time I met you, I fell in
love but I didn.t know how to tell you 
so I spent out time enjoying 
till the time I had to go.
You know something?
Roses are red,
So don't be blue.
San Francisco's great 
But Pittsburgh will do!
--You know who
DUNDERHEAD:
Happy Valentine's Day

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS».CLASSIFIED ADS --------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
Typing service—fast, accurate and depend­
able $ 1 .00/page 687-4678 •
Help Wanted. The Computation Center has
a part-time position available for a clerical 
assistant. For more information, contact 
Jill Diskin at x2639
Female Disc Jockey with quality sound and
light system. Make your next private party 
or frat party something to remember. Call 
"Beverly” 361-3176 evenings.
1971 VW Superbeetle Stickshift, Engine- 
Excellent Condition, AM/FM 8-track Tape. 
$850. Call 578-2787, Janet.
For Sale: Barrecrafters locking ski racks: 
$30; K2 "Two" Skis w/salomon 444 
bindings: $70; misc hi-performance small 
block mopar parts; coffee brewer: $15. 
Rick 361-7454.
Roommate needed, Oakland apt. $55/
month. For information, call 683-7012. 
Knowledge furnishes the rooms. 
Disco-Ballroom-Latin Dance Classes — 
(less than $1/hour) Includes: shows-dinner- 
"Holiday House". Call 241-2162.
Toddler group weekday mornings; child 
care also available other times. Grad stu­
dent in child development 421-8959.
I'm just a young girl from old Baton Rouge 
who admired Fred's nephew Floyd's ad.
My offer to him is if he's no stooge 
I'll show him some fun at my pad.
Betty Lou
clubs
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday
at 4:30 PM in Skibo 11. The campus com­
munity is welcome.
Design the 1979 t-shirt for CIA and you
could WIN $5.00 and a Free t-shirt. Submit 
all designs to the CIA mailbox (behind 
Skibo info desk) by February 20. Any 
questions call Steve x3998. Everyone is 
welcome to enter!
Attention all CIA members. There will be
an important meeting on Tuesday, Febru­
ary 20 at 7 ’PM in the Morewood Rec. 
Room. T-shirt designs, freeroll, and push 
practices will be discussed. This is essential 
for all members and new members wel­
come.
There will be a general business meeting of
the TECH FLYING CLUB on Wednesday 
February 21 at 7:30 PM in Room 45, 
Skibo. All members of the CMU communi­
ty with an interest in aviation are invited. 
The Seventh Semi-Annual Pi Lam Pizza Par­
ty will be this Friday at 9 PM. Come and 
enjoy the best Pizza in Pittsburgh while lis­
tening to the music of that famous Pitts­
burgh recording artist Gene Corbin. Pi 
Lambda Phi, 1057 Morewood Avenue.
¦»STr
Residence Life and Student Dormitory
Council present "Heartbreak HoteJ," a 
Valentine Disco/50's music dance. Skibo 
Ballroom, February 17, 9 PM. Music pro­
vided bv Kevin Butko. Come Slick!
Tickots for the annual Black Awareness 
Week Fashion Show Dinner Disco are on 
sale at the Skibo Information Desk, $6 per 
person, $10 per couple and $3 for tickets 
including ONLY the Fashion Show and 
Disco. Individuals selling tickets are 
Yvonne Brown (x4758), Margaret Moon 
(x4395), James Patterson(x4473) and 
Cheryl Goodman(x4418).
Israeli dancing every Thursday at 8 PM in 
the B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Beliefield Ave.
ATTENTION DORM RESIDENTS: The
SDC Booth Committee is looking for in­
terested members. If you'd like to be a part 
of this years Booth Committee contact 
Carolyn Welty x4437 or Mindie Jo Snyder 
_x4039.
SDC presents the Gong Show under the Big
Top at Spring Carnival. Why not do your 
thing (or someone else's)?! Contact Mindie 
Jo Snyder, Box 521 Donner or the SDC 
box in Skibo. Prizes will be awarded for 
the first, second and third places!
Get involved with Spring Carnival and 
send us a slogan! The Spring Carnival 
Committee is looking for something short 
and original to capture the spirit of '79's 
Carnival. The theme is "Countries"-the 
slogan doesn't need the word, just the idea. 
Entries will be judged by the Executive 
Committee, and a prize will be given to 
the winning entrant. Deadline date is 
Saturday,February 24, so send your 
slogan NOW!!!
SEND TO: Spring Carnival Contest 
Student Activities Desk, Skibo 
Campus Mail 
Scoth 'n' Soda will be holding crew call on
Sunday, March 4, 1979 in Rm. 12, Skibo. 
All forms of backstage help are needed. To 
be called will be set construction, lighting, 
costumes, properties, make-up, publicity, 
and running crews. (Running crew is the 
crew responsible for moving sets during the 
performance.) There is a significant 
amount of overlap in the jobs done by 
these crews. Anyone interested in working 
backstage should attend this meeting.
The Finance Committee of Student 
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
Rent-a-Tech jobs available;
359 Algebra tutor, 10th grade 
361 Carpenter's Helper 
353 Fix Stereo Component system 
346 Mechanical Engineers needed
344 Tutor 1st grader (everything)
328 Electronics tutor available
304 Architect student needed
279 Plumber needed
274 P/T Housekeeping
258 EE or Comp Major (must know
microprocessors)
241 Seamstress needed
212 Office work 
318 Teach Shorthand 
342 Repair Sterio receiver 
355 Piano Player 
364 Chemistry tutor
The fellowship of St. Don Bosco, a Catho­
lic spirituality group, will hold its first 
meeting Wednesday, February 14 at 10:00 
PM in Tech House (next to Donner). Send 
inquiries or comments to Don Bosco 
Group, 1057 Morewood Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, PA, 15213.
general
Mini-Course registration is going on now at
the Skibo Info. Desk. Register between 
9:00 AM and 5:00PM for the following
classes: Self-Defense, Shape Up for Spring- 
Exercise, CPR ,Photography for Beginners, 
Contemporary Images in Art, and Modern 
Art Appreciation. Sorry, Disco Dancing 
and Yoga classes are closed. Open to 
campus community. Registration fee is 
$1.00 per class, except Self-Defense
($5.00, Students, $10.00,staff)
2 Art Appreciation Classes will be offered
by Campus Program Planning as part of the 
mini-course series. Have you ever walked 
into an art exhibit and wondered "What is 
this stuff?” Then these classes are for 
you! MODERN ART APPRECIATION is 
designed to help the curious, sensitive, 
but bewildered art appreciator learn to 
understand and enjoy art works without 
becoming an art historian or an artist. 
CONTEMPORARY IMAGES IN ART
will explore 5 topics in 5 classes: Picasso; 
Jasper Johns & Robert Raushenberg; big 
canvases; George Segal & Environmental 
works; and the New York scene. Don't
know much about any of these? Fine.
Now you can learn without academic 
pressures. Classes run 1 hour a week,for 5 
weeks, beginning week of Feb. 19. Info 
and registration at Skibo Info desk.
Self defense courses for women of high
school age or older are being offered by the 
Feminist Karate Union beginning April 3rd 
and April 7th, 1979 at Falk School Gym­
nasium, Allequippa St. Oakland. These 
classes meet on Tuesdays from 7:00 to 
8:30 PM and on Saturdays from 12:30 
to 2:00 PM. Each class meets once a week 
for ten weeks, and is designed for women 
with no prior knowledge of the martial 
arts. Formal Karate training is also avail­
able to graduates of the self defense 
courses. Information and registration forms 
may be obtained by mailing a stamped, 
self-addressed envelope to: Ms. Bobbi 
Snyder, 1724 Sillview Drive, Pittsburgh Pa. 
15243, or by calling 276-4527. Ms. Snyder, 
our Chief Instructor, is available to speak 
on rape prevention and self defense at gen­
eral meetings, seminars, etc. There is no 
charge for this service.
!
is*.
¦r
Happy Belated
Come Back
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students during Feb­
ruary, March,and April.
The dates for these meetings aré Wed­
nesday, February 28, Wednesday, March 
14, and Friday, April 13. The time will be 
between 3 and 5 PM in the president's 
office. Students who wish to meet in­
dividually with the president should tele­
phone his office, 578-2000, for an appoint­
ment between 3 and 4 PM. The hour be­
tween 4 and 5 PM will be open for students 
who want to meet with the president but 
do not have an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
’benefit to both the president and the stu­
dents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS, holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30PM.
Mayor Richard S. Caliguiri announced a
series of Mayor's Service Cabinet meetings 
throughout the City's neighborhoods to in­
crease the communications between citi­
zens and City officials. The schedule of 
meetings in localities of interest to CMU 
students is as below:
Oakland, on March 7, at St. Regis Church 
(south Oakland) Shadyside, on March 13, 
at Calvary Episcopal Church. Squirrel Hill, 
west of Shady on March 21, at Squirrel Hill 
Library. Squirrel Hill East, Point Breeze, 
Regent Square and Swisshelm Park on Feb. 
21, at St. Bede Church.
Come to a luncheon meeting on Thursday,
February 15, at 12:30, with Mr. Carl 
Scheingold of the American Jewish Com­
mittee. Mr. Scheingold has done extensive 
writing in the field of intermarriage. Jona­
than Levine, local AJC Director, will also 
be present at the meeting which will be in 
the Rabbi's office, B'nai B'rith Hillel, 3rd 
floor, 315 S. Belief ield Ave.
Wed. Feb. 21 at 8:30 PM Hunt Library
Multipurpose Room. Optical- Society of 
America, Pittsburgh Section presents 
"Black Holes and Relativity”. Lecturer Dr. 
J.C. Lo Presto,.Edinboro State University. 
Refreshments served afterwards.
"From Manuscript to Printed Book, An
Exhibition of Gladys Schmitt's Work” will 
be on display in the Fine and Rare Book 
Rooms, Hunt Library until May, 1979. 
Hours of the exhibit are Monday through 
Friday, 1:30-4:30 PM.
World Affairs Council of Pitsburgh is spon­
soring a Trilogy of Breakfast Briefings on 
World Affairs: Tuesday, February 20— 
"Turmoil in Iran," Tuesday, March 20- 
"The Chinese Enigma," and Tuesday, May 
1—"Mexico—Challenges and Choices." 
Place: Michael's Restaurant, 11th floor, 
Kaufmann's Department Store (Down­
town). Price: Series of three Briefings—$6 
per person; Single Briefing—$2.25 per per-
Birthday, CAS!
~J - • r i* ¡ y- i — t ^ ¿i • i -
, i i' rr. ¦_ ¦> r. nffCM. ¦
to Earth!!!
y BUtqe

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS -------
son. Our guest speaker at the first Break­
fast Briefing on "Turmoil in Iran" will be 
Dr. Amos A. Jordan, Jr., a senior officer of 
the Center for Strategic and International 
Studies of Georgetown University. Infor­
mation and reservatipns available only at 
the World Affairs Council (281-7970)—ad­
vance reservations necessary.
attention cmu students, fac­
Febr AND STAFF: We are pleased to 
announce the formation of THE VED- 
ANTIC SOCIETY. The Student Senate 
has recently awarded the Society recog­
nized non-supportive status. We will be­
gin our activities early next month with an 
invited lecture followed by discussions 
relating to VEDANTA. The word VE­
DANTA is derived from VEDA, which is 
a vast body of literature in the East.VE­
DANTA is a study in SELF-AWARENESS. 
It is knowledge about ourselves and our re­
lationship with this world. It is a univer­
sally applicable study because of its total 
and exclusive reliance on scientific meth­
odology in its teaching. We would like to 
emphasize that this society is ofDen to all 
inquiring minds. We hope to broaden the 
scope of the society through community 
suggestions which are most welcome,
anytime. Look out for announcements ofithe society's activities in these columns. 
For further information, please contact 
V. K. KALYAN ext. 2475, 683-4913; 
VIVEK BAMMI ext. 2935 , 362-5197.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
work. FREE TUTORING is available in 
mcst CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
CMU-Pitt undergraduate evening program
is sponsored by CMU's Roman Catholic 
chaplaincy and is intended for college 
students who are searching for a better un­
derstanding of the Ca.tholic faith within a 
warm and friendly atmosphere. Thfe mass 
begins at 6:30 PM each Thursday in the 
living room of the Oratory (4040 Bigelow 
Blvd.), followed by>free buffet supper and 
discussion. This week's (Feb 16) topic: 
The themes of Messiah and of love in the 
Old and New Testaments. For more infor­
mation or if you need transportation call 
681-3181
Friday night group — A group of oratory
parishioners — mostly faculty and profes­
sional people in their thirties and forties - 
meet at the Oratory (4040 Bigelow Blvd.) 
on Friday -evenings through the year for 
celebration of the liturgy, a buffet supper, 
and discussion of some subject of religious, 
moral and intellectual concern, and social­
izing. All are welcome. For more informa­
tion call Ed and Nancy Sullivan, 361 -1101. 
Next meeting — March 9.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance
Society will hold its regular class on Satur­
day, February 17 at 7:30 PM at the First 
Presbyterian Church in Wilkinsburg. The 
group meets on the first and third Satur­
days of the month at 7:30 PM, and on the 
second and fourth (and fifth, if there is 
one) Fridays at 8 PM. Newcomers are 
very welcome to attend. For more infor­
mation, and possible help with transport­
ation, call Robin Drake at 421-7179.
The Communication Skills Center offers
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help
Happu Valentine's Day
Happy Valentine's Day to you, the guy 
who has shown me how wonderful being in 
love can be. I'm hopelessly devoted to you!
Forever and Always,*00
Valentina-We don't have to live together to
be lovers. Happy Birthday baby.
I love you!
¦Wary Beth,
Kome over and turtle me before I undergo 
Brittle fracture! Happy Valentine's Day.
Love, Ollie
»Happy Belated Birthday and Happy
¡Valentine's Day, Carol!
-Wallie
[to the Sultan:
But that our lobe becomes a fee: I render 
jyours, and you must render me.
Scheherazade
Valentine,
How about a summer without room­
mates? I'H trade you a good backrub if
you'll suck my toes!
N.W.C., 
you know who 
Karen W. |'m working on it! C.C.K.
The next time that I met you, the early 
3rin9 again, I took so much time, you 
didn't work, till at last you told me to
did.
[he last time that I met you, was only 
psterday. You didn't even say hello but 
[heri I broke the silence, your smile lit
my life.
,yant you to be my valentine.
Fred
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing and thinking skills, help in prepar­
ing and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted instruc­
tion. Call or come in to make an appoint­
ment with a faculty member. 161 Baker 
Hall, x2924, Monday through Friday
9 AM to 4 PM.
scholarships 
?pu0ry
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation, Hunt Library, proposes an ex­
hibit of students' work on botanical sub­
jects for March 5- April 6, 1979. Any med­
ium is acceptable as long as the main sub­
ject is plants. Graphics must be matted but 
can be placed in Hunt standard frames of 
19% x 14%, 22 x 16,27 x 20, 34 x 26, and 
40 x 30. Small sculptures and craft pieces 
could be shown in cases. Contact Mr. John 
Brindle or Mr. James White in the Hunt 
Library Penthouse, Ext. 2440, for informa­
tion.
Applications are invited for a limited num­
ber of delegate positions in the First U.S. 
Student Pugwash Conference on Science 
and Ethical Responsibility to be held at the 
University of California, San Diego-La Jolla 
on June 19-26, 1979. Participants chosen 
through competitive selection. For applica­
tion and information write: Jeffrey R. Lei- 
fer. Coordinator; U.S. Student Pugwash 
Conference; Department of Political Sci­
ence, B-028; University of California, San 
Diego; La Jolla, CA 92093. Deadline for
application is March 1, 1979. Limited 
funds are available to defray travel and 
other expenses.
Applications are now available in Dean
Cox's office, Warner Hall 204, for the 
PITTSBURGH ALUMNI PANHELLENIC 
SCHOLARSHIP for I979-I980. To be elig­
ible, the applicant should be a member in 
good standing of an active chapter of a 
National Panhellenic Fraternity, be a curr­
ent junior and have a quality point average 
of 3.0 for her three years at Carnegie- 
Mellon. She should also have participated 
in her fraternity's activities and in other 
extra-curricular activities.
Susquehanna University will conduct its
eighth biennial summer study program at 
Oxford University in England during the 
summer of 1979. Applications are now 
being accepted. "Susquehanna at Oxford" 
is a program of study in British history, 
culture, and society with relevant travel 
and excursions in England. Admission is 
open to undergraduates from Susquehanna 
and other colleges, secondary school 
teachers, recent college graduates seeking 
enrichment, or any seriously interested 
adult. Following the Oxford session, 
Susquehanna also offers an optional 
three-week tour of the European conti­
nent, with travel by rented minibus. The 
itinerary includes Brussels, Munich, Salz­
burg, Innsbruck, Lucerne, Interlaken, 
Berne, Heidelberg, Cologne, and Paris. The 
program is under the direction of the S.U. 
political science department. Brochures 
containing further information including 
costs are available from Dr. Robert Brad­
ford, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, 
Pa. 17870.
George Baby,
I will find you one- -by the end of this se­
mester! Keep vour eyes and whatever 
open... P.S. What's the TC of inventory?
Guess Who?
Happy Valentine's Day Kerry!
Spider man, Spin your web over me to­
night. Love Strawberry
To my roommates in 4B-8, thank you both
for many cherished hours in bed. Happy 
Valentines day. Love Mitch
There's a gentle way about you.
You're always sweet and kind.
You're never here on time
I'll love you till tomorrow 
I'll love you till my death 
I might forget your smile,
But never your Cepacol breath.
NA,
Love couldn't buy a friend more true than 
you- Be my Valentine.
Love, Harv
To Claudia, Pam, Joan and all the rest of
my Valentine Babes, Happy V Day!
Cas Baby
To May 26,
You are very special to me. Happy Valen­
tine's Day.
From March 22 
Happy Valentines Day Snug and une mini
pigette. Love Gretchen ,Emily, Puffin, Miss 
Pi§gy, and the Man with the fat car. 
To my Bevy, Though you are.too
numerous to name individually, I wish you 
all a Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Mitch
PRES-CVER'I':
he's only a phone call away!!
(i/ficT CÆLL iN SftûlA/
(Whs. o’s Afr
Itisa forumusr lhpaIe
'RlCttfv<X> C Y ¿DC
wrcrfm

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
SL .13...
AB's Coffeehouse Committee will pre­
sent Erin Isaac on February 17 at 9:30 in 
the Wherrett Room. Erin has performed 
extensively on the coffeehouse and college 
circuit. She writes much of her own materi­
al, and will be singing and playing the gui­
tar. Tom Steppe, a senior from CMU will be 
opening both of Erin's sets. This event is 
free and open to the campus community.
FEBRUARY 15 at 6, 8, and 10 PM 
FANTASTIC ANIMATION FESTIVAL in 
DH 2210
Admission is .75 with ID/$1 without
Fourteen short masterpieces of anima­
tion-varied, entertaining and displaying 
dazzling and fantastic animation tech­
niques. Included are films with scores by 
Pink Floyd and Cat Stevens, award winning 
T.V. commercials, two Oscar nominees, 
and prize winners from France and Roman­
ia.
FEBRUARY 16 at 6, 7:30, 9, 10:30 and 
12 PM
FLESH GORDAN in DH 2210 
Admission is $1 with ID/$1.25 without
A campy take-off on the old Flash Gor- 
dan series.theater...
CMU’s Departments of Drama and Mus­
ic will present the musical theatre produc­
tion West Side Story, February 8-10 and 
12-17. Performances will be held at 8:20 
PM, with two Saturday matinees at 2:00 
PM; in the Kresge Theatre. For more in­
formation, call the CMU Box Office: 578- 
2407.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will 
present Vanities opening January 31 and 
Ashes opening February 6. Their «reper­
tory plays will run thru March 4 with per­
formances Tuesdays, Wednesdays and 
Thursdays at 8 PM, Fridays and Saturdays 
at 8:30 PM , and Sundays at 7 PM. There 
will also be some matinees. For more in­
formation and reservations call 765-3500.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present Edward Albee’s The American 
Dream from February 2 thru March 10. 
Curtain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Camelot Production Company will pre­
sent the romantic musical fantasy, Briga- 
doon, for twelve performances beginning 
February 2 through February 25. Perfor­
mances will be at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 
Liberty Avenue, at 8:30 PM on Fridays 
and Saturdays, and 7:30 PM on Sundays. 
For reservations call 683-7770.
The premiere production of Gertrude 
Stein's 1930’s libretto A Lyrical Opera 
Made By Two with ah original score by 
William Turner will be directed by Tom 
Hearn for Theatre Express’ 5th production 
of the 78-79 season. Previews start Febru 
ary 16th with an opening marked for 
March 8th. For more information, call 621- 
5454.
The Kuntii Repertory Theatre will per­
form in the Ballroom on February 15 at 8 
PM. Admission is free.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
three Beckett plays Knapp's Last Tape, 
Come and Go and Act Without Words II 
from February 17 thru 26. For more infor­
mation call 323-1900.
The Performing Arts Department of 
Community College of Allegheny County 
South Campus is presenting Euripides’ 
classic tragedy The Trojan Women on 
February 16, 17, 23 and 24 at 8 PM on 
the stage at South Campus in West Mifflin. 
Reservations aod group information may 
be obtained by calling the box office at 
469-1100, ext. 390, Tuesday through 
Friday from 10 AM to 4 PM
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage 
Company will present The Metro in Moli- 
ere’s famous comedy Tartuffe for five 
weekends, February 15 through March 24. 
It will play Thursdays, Fridays, and Satur­
days from February 15-24 and March 8-17 
at the Lovelace Marionette Studio at 5884 
Ellsworth Ave., and March 22-24 at the 
Smithfield United Church, 620 Smithfield 
St. Performances begin at 8 PM. A dona­
tion is requested. For more information 
call 441-6176.cinema...
SDC presents on February 17:
A Clockwork Orange at 6:30, 9 and 11:30 
PM
Malcolm McDowell, Stanly Kubrick. A 
Clockwork Orange is a mind shattering ex­
perience. . . Brilliant, a tour de force of 
extraordinary images, music, words and 
feelings . . . dazzles the senses and the 
mind”—Rex Reed. Film will be shown in 
DH 2210. Admission is .50 with ID/$1 
without.
This week's movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Reportory are: February
13, Looking For Mr. Goodbar; February
14, That Obscure Object of Desire; 
February 15, The Gambler; February 16, 
Children of Paradise; February 17, Annie 
Hall; February 18, Distant Thunder; and 
February 19, Airport. All seats are $2 with 
two showings nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 PM. 
Some second shows run late. For more 
information call 621-4445.
The Francophone Club will present on 
Wed. Feb 14 at 8 PM in Doherty Hall 2210 
“Deux ou trois choses que je said d’elle” 
(two or three things I know about her) A 
film by Jean-Luc Godard (English subti­
tles) Everyone is welcome
Admission: $1.00 with CMU id 
$1.50 without 
Funded by activities fee
Ondine yrill be present to screen and 
discuss Andy Warhol’s Chelsa Girls on Feb­
ruary 13 at 7 PM in the Museum of Art 
Theatre. Admission is $1.
Minnie and Moskowitz by John Cassav- 
ettes will be shown February 15 at 8 PM in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission is 
$1.
The Creature From the Black Lagoon 
will be shown on February 17 at 2:30 PM 
in the Museum of Art Theatre. Admission 
is $1
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, Beauty 
Knows No Pain and Turkish Delight will 
be shown on February 18 at 7:30 PM in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission for 
all three films is $1.music...
On February 18 the Ozanam Strings will 
appear in the Ballroom at 3 PM. Admission 
is $1.50.
CMU’s Music Department will present 
La Serva Padrona, The Women in the Gar­
den, sung in English, directed by David 
Gorin and conducted by Istavan Jaray on 
February 22 thru 25 at 8 PM in the 
Alumni Concert Hall. Tickets are $5.
Sha Na Na will appear at the Stanley on 
February 16 at 7:30 PM, February 17 at 
7:30 and 10:30 PM and February 18 in a 
matinee, time to be announced. Tickets are 
$6, $7 and $8 on sale at National Record 
Marts and Stanley box office.
WDVE and DiCesare-Engler Productions 
will present an evening with Stephen Stills 
and his band March 24. Tickets are $9.75 
on sale at National Record Marts and the 
Stanley Box Office. For more information 
call 281-3700.
Charlie Daniels & his band will give a 
concert at Allegheny College in Meadville 
on February 21 at 8:15 PM. Tickets are
February 13, the 415 Players (Larry 
Kiefer, recorder and baroque oboe, Tom 
Frankenberg, viola da gamba, and Richard 
Stern, harpsichord) will perform a recital 
of baroque chamber music with violinist 
Eugene Phillips at 8:30 PM in Pitt’s Frick 
Fine Arts Building in Oakland. Admission 
is free to the public.
On February 18, Carnegie Institute will 
sponsor a free organ recital at 3 PM in the 
Carnegie Music Hall, featuring Kenneth 
Axelson. This recital is free and open to 
the public.
There will be a folk music concert at 
Duquesne University Student Union Ball­
room at 7:30 PM on February 25 which 
will feature traditional American folk , 
music performed by Margaret MacArthur, 
and the Cork Lickers, and the Louisiana 
Aces. Admission is $5. For more informa­
tion call 687-1510.
On February 16, 17 and 18, Vladimir 
Ashkenazy, pianist, will appear with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at Heinz Hall. For 
more information call 281-8185. '
Margaret Evans will give an organ recital 
on February 19 at 8 PM in the Chapel on 
Chatham’s campus. This event is free and 
open to the public.
Mary Anne Kirby will give a voice reci­
tal on February 18 at 8 PM in the Music 
Center on Chatham's campus. This event is 
open and free to the public.
The Portfolio, 420 S. Craig St., will 
present as entertainment on: February
14, Gene and Dave; February 15, The 
Patricia Cavanaugh and Bill Besterman 
Equinox; February 16, Young Lust; 
February 17, Devilish Merry; and Feb­
ruary 19, an Open Stage Night. For more 
information call 682-8594.
art...
N. O’Leary, D. Garber, G. Hayward, 
and R. Sovich will exhibit design and 
architecture at Forbes Street Gallery 
from February 13 thru 18. Gallery times 
are Wednesday thru Sunday 12 to 4 PM 
and Tuesday thru Thursday 7 to 9 PM.
The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh's 
69th Annual Exhibition will open Febn 
ary 9 in the Heinz Gallery of the Museuir. 
of Art, Carnegie Institute. The exhibit will 
run thru March 15 with Museum Hours 
being Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 
PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit Twentieth Century French 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 15 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues­
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Two dimensional shapes create three 
dimensional forms. A show of paintings 
and sculptures by: Peter Risser, Stuart 
Sua and Steven Abrue. Fred Lorini Galler- 
y. 153 Boffs Ave. Mt. Washington. Cham­
pagne opening Sunday, March 11, 4^8 PM. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Sat from 1:30-5:30 
PM.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis­
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu­
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from Feb­
ruary 1 thru April 1. Museum hours are 
Tuesdays thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM
and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display in 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In 
stitute from January 25 thru March 11 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Winter Show of members’ prints
Shady Avenues, from January 27 - Febru­
ary 18, 1979. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public. For more information call 
Debbie Turici at 761-0439.
Reflections from the Third Day-Photo­
graphic Revelations of Plant Designs will 
be on display from November 20 thru Feb 
ruary 16 in the Penthouse of Hunt Library 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Friday, from 9 AM 
to 5 PM.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec 
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu­
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
There will be an art show in the Faculty 
Lounge on February 16 and 17.
Photographs from the permanent collec­
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.|etc...
The Silver Eye is sponsoring spring pho 
tographic workshops and lectures at the 
Manchester Craftsmen’s Guild, 1719 Buena 
Vista St., Northside. The first master work­
shop will begin on March 9 and the con­
cluding one on May 18. For more informa­
tion, contact Robert C. Cornelius, 687-. 
7122.
There will be a fashion show and dinner 
dance on February 16 at 6 PM in the Ball­
room. Tickets are $6.
The American Dance Ensemble of Point 
Park College will present Graduation Ball 
on February 16, 17 and 18. Performances 
i are Friday 8 PM, Saturday 2:30 and 8 PM, 
and Sunday 2:30 PM. For tickets call 621- 
1445.
Erica Jong will give a poetry reading at 
the International Poetry Forum on Febru­
ary 14 at 8 PM in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Student tickets are $2.25.
The Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte 
Carlo, a zany dance comedy group, will 
perform at Heinz Hall February 13 at 8 
PM. Tickets are $8.50, $7.50 and $6.50. 
For more information call 281-8185.
The Danceteller Dance Company will 
give a modern dance performance on Feb­
ruary 15 at 8 PM in the Eddy Theatre on 
Chatham's campus. There is an admission 
of $2. Workshops will also be conducted 
on February 13 and 14. For more informa­
tion call 441-8200, ext. 239.
The Nikolais Dance Theatre will per­
form February 19 at 8 PM at Heinz Hall. ; 
For more information call 355-0330. :
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will present 
Janet Gillespie and Present Company on | 
February 16 at 8 PM in Pitts’ Trees Hall 
Dance Studio. A donation of $1.50 is re- j 
quested. For more information call 624- 
4395 or 624-4396.
It has come to our attention that many 
students feel there just isn’t anything to I 
do at CMU. Help the TARTAN prove that; 
students need not sit alone in their rooms/ 
If you’re having a party or event send us 
the necessary information (date, time, 
place, what's going on, etc.), and well 
give you free advertising in the Upcoming 
Events section. The only stipulation we 
make is that the event must be open to the 
campus community even though the actual 
affair may be held off campus.
