CARNEGIE ^INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JAN. 15 L935
Rumors Still 
Rampant Over 
Last Second 
Of Pitt Game
Questionable Timing 
Costs Tartans One 
Point Defeat
CLAIM CRIBBS HELD 
PATT AS PITT SCORED
Photo Taken of Last Play 
Would Settle Dispute, 
But "Who Took It?
Ibe Carnegie gymnasium which will leave a shadow cast over the •elatlone between this
Many of.them,..however, with ideal­ized creeds of sportsmanship ¦ be­
lt should be closet! 1
1 expression of opln-
defies opposition lo any form. First , we had better take a the facts and review the situation before we get Into an. ar
The. scqre is 37 to 86. in favor of. ; Cnrnegle. There are only a couple | of seconds left to play, and the hall « goes out under the Pitt basket, - as whistle blows unofficially1 for a ii'bstllution from the -Pitt benches. £ The time keepers, stop theii
Mthe proper whistle blows • for the f substitution. :Plan6.
I he'is guarded by Fltswllson, of Car- ! negle. Tbe watches start ticking, und Noon waves the ball around least ' two. seconds , in an 3effort to get throcvh the Carnegie a player's guard. ' Directly in
(fiber Crihba—to the extent that t
|der tho baaket. Crlbba locks. Path’s in his own and jerks the Car-.....i player firmly away from the9 basket. Hujjbes executes a quick | flip of the ball, and the ^un fires is it goes through the loop. :rowd Is wild', the game Is
[create a ,poor impression In 'îles to have-them published, but-
(Continued on Page Three)
Theta Tau Hears 
Pitt Dean Speak
Dean P. W. Holbrook of the lariment of Engineering at the University of Pittsburgh, spoke to members-1 of -Thetai Tau- honorary t the conclusion of the <ig- formal ;ln......Sunday afte T1ehn-"Lltic61n' Hotel"!>» re:Prior to the "World War Dean Holbrook was a member of the faculty at the "University of- HU- nofs and was faculty advisor of the I'-nnpa chanter of Theta Tau at Illinois. He accepted a position ‘s Dean of Pennsylvania State Col- CARA and later hVbecame .affiliated 'villi Pitt as Dean of the School of EitKineevmg.He has served as advisor to the Federal government on coal code
Bean Holbrook, in the course, of Jiis discussion, advised all men, ¦‘»I engineers particularly, to-ea: lablish ideals and work to attain them, for “Men do not make much progress or work without an ideal lo strive for.’’ ......... " " ’> "The services held Sunday ¦eled the in.................. .Carlson ’35, :
Pittsburgh Clan,Meets 
. After s Geneva. Game
The, Carnegie Pittsburgh Clan nas planned a combination baaket- ha'l game and stag .smoker for- to- ^‘Bht. After the Carnegle-Geneva Wtne, the committee has arranged a social hour Iri Thistle Hall; In- j cluuing a luncheon.' ahd" entertain- I jnent. Combination tickets, cover- I lT1e tue cost of the game and lunch- I fion wul be sold at the door for the
oterlmg. .Welter:irlanigan. 1, P?®r. james Flsher.iBobiSmith,Janies -Leonardi *an<L-<luy?]EInlfet$y
Talks to Honoraries
Joint engineering Hon.
Junior Prom. 
Will Be Held 
At Wm. Penn
Urban Room Iß Chosen 
For. Postr-Semester 
Dance Feb. 8.
Contracts have been Bigned for 
the Urban Room of the Hotel Wil­
liam Penn as the setting for the’ 
Junior Prom to be held Friday, 
February ¦' 8, the committee an­nounced today.
The Urban Room is said to be the most beautiful ballroom in Pittsburgh. It is the.creation of Joseph Urban, the famous designer.* isonly unique in mural designs but features ultra­modern built-in lighting effects.
In addition to the Urban Room guests of the Prom :\viU' ha'
always-been a gay and .'colorful at-
Transmitting Club 
Will Meet Today
.. A meeting of the Carnegie Tech Amateur Transmitting Club will be held today in 113 Engineering Hall. At this meeting the formation of
discussed. Those who are inter­ested but; have not yet applied for Membership are urged to do so quickly, as the number to be ac- cepted is limited.
Interference from the many large mechanism of all - types throughout tbe institution has been
To remedy this,'a new nofse-reduc- ibg antenna stretching from Engi­neering Hall to Machinery Hall has been Installed. With this and new furniture and apparatus, the receiv­ing set has been made more power-
4 Honoraries 
To Hold Joint 
MeetingTfaurs.
Dr. Lowry Will Address 
Gathering on History 
Of Coal Research
LANTERN SLIDES 
ACCOMPANY TALK
Need for Additional Work 
CN Coal Research Field 
Will be Stressed
Dr. H. H. Lowry, Director of the 
Coal Research Laboratory, will ad­
dress a joint meeting of four engi­
neering honorary societies, Tau 
Beta PI, Eta Kappa Nu, Theta Tau, and Pi Tau Sigma, Thursday at eight o'clock In room 104, in­dustries. “Mccbanlsm of the Ther­mal Decomposition of Coal” has been chosen by Dr. Lowry as the topic of his address, i ' .............
general, pointing out tbe i
oratory, was officially organized in
hanclal support amounting to half
S. Steel -Corp., the General Elec­tric: Company, the New York Edi­son Company, the Standard-OH Company of New Jersey, Westing-
burgh, and the Carnegie Institute of; Technology. The, program. out-
panles solely engaged In producing
At present the laboratory has a staff of 26 people, two of whom'are nt work on their doctrate. .
Carnegi^Briniers - 
Publish Directory
Contains Name9 of 1,971 
Teachers 'of Printing
The directory number of the 
Graphic Arts Education fa being 
printed ' by the department of 
Printing under the directionof 
Professor ¦" Gustafson, head 'oif the 
department, and MesSrs, Pitkin, 
Martin and Thomas. This infor­
mation was formerly contained in 
the Printing Education maga2lne 
published by the United Typothe- 
tae of America. The publication 
is how produced by the American 
Institute of Graphic Arts, division 
of Education. '
This is the Hocond number of tbe 
1934-36' series and ' contains'the 
names and addresses ' of 1,971 
teachers of printing and others en­
gaged in .educational work In the 
Graphic Aits. Schools containing 
printing departments in the United 
States and foreign countries are 
also-listed..
People You Ought to Know.,.
By Clifton P. Bauteile ,
William Becker, Student Council Prexy -
S
OME sort of a record was set up by Student. Council last 
year when the members chose the officers for 1934-35. The 
record, which is the distinction of being, one of the youngest 
leaders of student government in the bollegiate world and the 
y6ungest president of any Carnegie Student.Counqil, is held by 
¦William F. Becker who is still in his teens, nineteen to be exact.And here Is another unusual fact*“
‘Set, Pi fraternity house. It's Bill Becker fight­ing for pos­session of the radio so that he can listen . to ..the opera
Reading and the opera are his iobbies. Tills summer he read sever.- ty-flve books, Sherwood An- derson’s^oTks-head the list. He is soft- 
¡ken, hut can becoihe very-.ora-
F. Beckei
spoken, hut can become very torical when' occasion-rises, drees ' well' but - conservatively Walking apparently:, helps, him think .clearly for he- constanly
•walking habits . while .dictating Council letters. .. 'Although born in New York, Becker soon moved to Long Island Cltv N. Y.‘. where he attended the Bryant High. School and was se­lected Cor membership in the rvonor
: ¿SwSyW he. choose :Tech? Bill iadarned it he knows It was one ot (hote thinn that Just harpons
Ho enrolled with the intention o! becoming an Electrical engineer but four years have altered his plans in a radical fashion. Now saleswork and promoting projects lias caught his fancy. He wants to be a millionaire, but not thefloated EGI^ S T Twould be too i -the ioiiponfl,!’. 1: ed upon tO'wrlte rejiorts.ho i bly chooses some topic related to banking or high-flnance.
Thla year Becker was the co­manager of the football team. He took charge of the finances ¦ while his co-worker Robinson handled the equipment. When a junior'he was a member of Delta Skull honorary society. He is now a vice presi­dent of the Senior horn .cjety..T Kappa
In the 1934 'class elections he beaded the ticket for presided of the Engineering Senate. This posi­tion was;.a-stepping stone to the Council 'presidency.. When he was fourteen or. fifteen, he doesn't remember, he visited “every nook and cranny 'of Ger­many.” We asked him for his po­litical opinions. In a moment of rashness he said '‘Communist," ttut then realizing his terror he decided on the Republicans, because Roose­velt has. "too manyteeth.
Pa«e Two)
Our Platform
P
ERIIAPS the most worn-out plu-nsc in the annals of col­
lege journalism is .the vow every staff makes upon taking 
office—“to work always in. tbe best, interests of tbe school nnd 
its student body." So mueh'has it been used that it lias become 
empty, meaningless. "We, too, made that promise. We «re 
anxious to give it meaning..: '
No community .of any size ever conducted itself m.*an ideal 
manner. The ideal, is miattainablo. The striving for it makes 
for progress. Change is. inevitable because there is always 
room for improvement. Tho problem is to decide which chnnges 
to make. V>
Below we list- our. reeoniiiìciKlations briefly. They have 
been compiled eavefully after a half year of observation and 
consideration. We sincerely, believe they wili benefit the in­
stitution and the studentYbody.j We therefore devote the re­
maining issues of this year’s Tartan to the achievement of these 
points.
This is whnt we stand behind :. 1. An Activities Building ',]
An urgent necessity on . thè 'pampus to be compiled with in 
either a temporary or permanent; manner—but, by all means, in 
some manner tbatis on improvement over existing inadequate 
facilities for relaxation and recreation.
2. A Psychological Vocational Bureau and PersonnelAdviser j
To make easier the.: problem that confronts all freshmen 
engineers when theyfmust decltìèlwhich field of engineering they 
are best suited for—or'whether they are suited for engineering at 
all.
In a like manner,' to deal with students in all departments of 
the Institution who may he. doIng.;themselves an injustice by per­
sisting in pursuing a.profession for which they- naturally are not 
adapted. .
To delve to the bottom .to find the causes for a Btudent doing 
failing work. To search out and cure the mental ills, he they due 
< to inside or outside Influences, that hamper a student from put­
ting forth his greatest effort. i
The facilities are here in thè Department of Psychology for 
us to use when we will. .. ' .
3. Courses, in Study of Government—Political Science or Practical Politics—With 'the Daily Newspapem as a. Text -
To increase Interest in, national affairs by interpreting and 
giving students a better understanding of the trend -of events, so 
.. that they may become more intelligent voters and bettef citizens.
'To emphasize the need In 'government of trained college 
graduates and to encourage students to take the lead upon grad­
uation so that honest, intelligent and efficient local and national 
government may be more easily ^obtained.
4. Rulings by Interfraternity Council Toward the Elimin­ation of Fraternity PoliticsTo make more fair the chances for obtaining positions in ac­
tivities on the campus by regulating t5 -prevent sUch cases where­
in one fraternity- holds a particular position for more than two 
consecutive, years. Such rulings,; at the same time,, will encour-
-^ageT^òre,,aii<LgEeatfir-iomDetitinh;and.Bo,-ln all.probability,, pro* .'
vlde greater ability for the.position.
To promote the interests of those who do not have, and so 
can not profit by, fraternity iifflHatione.
5. Closed Ballot and. Open CountTo dismiss, once and for all,, all possibility of “Irregularities” 
in school elections by eliminating campaigning in the vicinity of 
the polls and ensuring a fair count by allowing all nominees to 
be present ai the counting of their own particular election.
6. Revision of Class Honoraries
(a) A Point System as the method for selecting stu­
dents for the Class Honoraries.To Introduce a uniform? system which, will.place all students 
on an equal basis so that they are selected purely on their merits, 
without consideration, for their affiliations, personal or fraternal.
(b) The eventual elimination of all class honoraries 
excepting the senior ones.Because there is no valid reason for their existence. Be* 
cause they have shown themselves „to be tools in the hands of the 
fraternities.-. Becanse, /in one case, selection of members is tend­
ing toward the point-where it will be a disgrace not to be a mem­
ber rather than an honor to be one.-
Arts Rushing 
Season Ends
Silence Period Closes 
Wednesday at 4:30
Rushing season for tiie five 
sororities in-the College of Fine- Arts, Alpha Kappa Psl, Beta -Pj, Beta Tau Lambda, Phi Delta Mu, and Gamma Gamma Gamma, terminated" Sunday ‘evening. “silence period” which -will-las three days. This period-of slleiice will end at' 4:30 tomorrow, when answers to all bids issued by the sororities to rusliees must be in the office of the Dean of Women. Open rushing will continue. from then on,-with 110 events -such as teas and dance9.
During the silence period there should be absolutely no communi­cation, by note, telephone, or In any other way, between the rushees and members.of the soror­ity. During the period of silence the prospective pledges are ad­vised to consult with the 'faculty advisers 9f each sorority.
Phi Delta Mu sorority was omit­ted' from last ,week's "Account o£
day evening. The preyloua Friday an informal dance jvas held at the Hotel Scheriley. The first event of; the ’season was a tea at the home of Sylvia Lipka *36, vice president of Phi Delta Mu.
Fran Etchler and his band of musicians will .provide .the music, tor the Basketball dance after the Temple-Carnegie ball game thla Saturday. . The dance will be held in Thistle Kali fvom-9^0-to 12:00,
ment of school day Guqst-Artist; Surprise»:«.! . Margaret Griffin, Campus . High-
Cart UOF
Temple Dance 
M Saturday
Fran Eichler Furnishes 
. Music After-Game
West Virginia basketball dance
elation:Admission to the dance will he $1.00 per couple. On January 25 the sponsors of the basketball dances will Inaugurate a new ¦'Penny-a-poun4" admission policy. The price of the dance will bebased upon the weight of the la­dies. A top price bos be llshed at $1.25.
Coming Events
12:30—“Tribes of Bagdad” Meet­ing—Lillie Theater..7:30—Important Delta Skull
ThuSi8-.12:30—A. S. M.’-B. Meeting—Lec­ture; “The Engineer and So­cial Well-Being,” . Ralph E.••• "Flanders—Hob m 104,mdU3tribe Building.12; 30—Safety Valve Meeting —
104, Industries"!
Gen. Malone 
Will Add ress 
Today’sChapel
“Leadership” Is Subject 
Of Talk; R. O. T. C 
Unit To Attend
SPEAKER RECEIVES 
NEW COMMISSION
9th Corps. Area Considered 
Most Important Unit of 
XJoited States Army
'‘Leadership” will bo tho subject of Major-General Paul B. Malone's address nt chapel today. The
General Malone, at present, is commanding officer of the third corps area with headquarters in Baltimore. He has bi-en transferred to the ninth corps area with head* quarters at San FranclBco where he will assume command in Feb­ruary. This is considered the most Important unit of *the entire army because of the unsettled condition in the orient.
Since his appointment os second lieutenant of tbe 13th infantry in 1694 General Malone has had a very distinguished military serv* ice. When the United States en­tered the World War, he was chief of staff in the Eagle Pass district. He was transferred to France where be became a member of the general staff at the General Of-
General Malone HF an honor grad­uate of the Army school of the Line. He is considered to be the most brilliant orator In the army. Before he retires from active duty, it is expected that he will obtain the rank of lieutenant general.
This chapel service Is being sponsored by the Department of Military- Science In conjunction with the Y. M. C. A.’s plan, as ap­proved last fall, whereby various campus organizations are sponsor­ing the chapel services this year. The purpose of this plan is to pro­mote a greater Interest among the student for these services. At to­day's chapel the R. O. T. C. unit will attend In a body.
Co-Ed Number 
For Sale Thors.
Campus King is Announced 
In Next Issue of Puppet
Next Tuesday morning the Co-Ed Number of the Puppet will mako Us ..appearance. - Featured in this Issue will be the announcement of Carnegie’s first -Campus : elected by.Ujo co-eds. The-price
utor among the Co-ede who putting out this Issue.
A full page has been devoted to introducing to the student body Carnegie's own King. Resplendent In the latest pictures of the I urch and exclusive items from his historical album which only en­terprising Puppet staff workers have been able to peer Into.'-In the column “Dates ahd Nuts" (he eftmpus celebrities will he taken over tho coals. The staft promises to reveal some very ln- rnloi >.dlgout of the furnace.
Another -feature column ot this issue Is “Male Modes” which Is be­ing substituted for- "Frailties and .........Something very startling
start cîa/ms that the eds attire will no longer take a back seat-to the up-to-date dress of the lady friend.
Chapel Speaker
Eta Kappa Nu 
Chooses Most 
Promising Jr.
Owen Coho Is Chosen 
Most Outstanding in 
Electrical Dept.
Eta Kappa -Nu. honorary frater­
nity, selected Owen C. Cobo. '3G. ns 
the most promising electrical en­
gineer, at a dinner in Carnegie Inn 
on January i>. He was choson 
from the junior class on the basis 
of scholastic record umi general 
ability and. was presented with an 
Engineer s handbook us fin award by Professor W. R. 'vyork of the, Department of Electrical Engineer­
ing-.The dinner was attended by ac­tive and alumni members of tho fraternity and members of the fac­ulty. Prior to the dinner, the fol­lowing initiates were admitted to full membership: juniors—^Owen C. Coho. Robert -McMaster; Paul H. Dltzler. John C. Latham.. James .Ji,,vJoneH.:i£etai\ H...Wy.okqit.:Roh-, •ert C. Cohientz: Seniors—Harold J.- Corning, Mike J.- Vovtllla. Mh chael Kovacevlch, Francis Mertz..
Coho, winner of the piost prized award in the Department of Elec­trical.Engineering. commutes dally from New Kensington. His home is in Buffalo. N. Y; He Is a mem­ber of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Technon Club.
Glider Club Thet 
aebuilding Plane
Members of the Carnegie Glider Club have been working for sev. era I weeks reconditioning the mo- torless' piano in which they expect ike. training flights- during
Goodyear-Zeppelin Company of-Ak­ron, Ohio.
Victor M. Saudek *38, was electcd president of the-Glider Club at & recent meetlug. Gilson. ’38. and Taylor Boyer hold positions as presidents.
and William' M: Eichleay •37."treat
Tbe glider which the club secured from-A,- C. "Cua-’’- -HalJcr.. la now. dismantled in the Aeronautics lab­oratory.. The wings are being cov.
‘I’m a Big Bad Better,’ Says* Benny,
' While He Smokes His Big Havana
Famous Comedian and Wife 
Celebrated Anniversary 
Here Yesterday
By Guy Halferty, Jr. .
They don't come very often— 
felloys who actually, enjoy being the "butt of a joke-aiul -t?ie ‘¦Mtoofe*,-" but when they do, they’re uisually the delight of a nation. . The hest
week at the Stanley Theater.
A kind, generous, fun-loving soul, Jack has wise-cracked hid way.into the hearts of .America's radio au- .dience. He beganills stage experi­ence at -17 . years .of. age,, in. his. home town, Waukegan, Mich., where- he 'was born: and -raised. When the war came. Jack enlisted in the navy; and was an entertainer in the famous "Naw Relief” group. -His first radio'contract came: but three years ago. with Canada Dry. -Then came -the: Chevrolet Co.. next- General Tire. and.:now he;broad­casts for the General Foods Co. -.
Between-puffs on his enormous cigar, he let.himself be committed into -.the following:' idiosyncrasies: Hobbles ere golf . .i-bettlng (he- says, ¦-'When• I^bet,, I only;bet .big. .mOnoy!")t.i:i;:v: playing’the.'violin
. . . his onlv ambition In youtlt. was to become a concert violinist . . . started out lus unnsual careei- ¡7) a Jazz orchestra . . . at-the Bar- rlson Theater, in -Waukegan . . . doesn't like to stay with one thins? very long . . . won-t make too many movies . . . likes radio best of all . . . because of the large .aniltenoe Jt can touch . . . was married S vears ago yesteraay . . he let the writer in '
rlbber” olikes the-work—occas his choice ot clothes to blue and grey . . . to match his
. says she
Giiy Lombardo*-. is 5 ft. ,10 inches tall .: ;won’t tell his-age--. \ '. approxi­mately forty >Hkes his work with Frank Parker . . ¿-Don Bestor . . . Don Wilson . . . and M,ary . thinks Pittsburgh’s dirt
.:could not have I
. J
to your.-correspondent aithat g LY,F f r Mary too
Bagdad Tribes 
Hold Conclave 
In Arts School 
Thea ter Wed.
Arabian Entertainment 
Will Be Given Today 
In Arts Foyer
‘HAJ THEÌ3EGGAR’
WILL Dili
Departments Hold Particß*, 
Students A.ust Purchase 
Individual Tickets
Thero will be n general c
the -'’Tribes of Bagdad” tomorrow at 12:30 In tbe Little Theater. .Any student Interested In tlie Arts Ball may become a member or tho ••Tribes of Bogdad.”The bl-unnunl Arts Ball and the Arabian motif ' which has ’ been chosen as the decorative schepkO
olude speeches by Dean Glenditt- nlng Keeble. ProL Hnrold Geoghe- gan. i^ho has charge ot the oosr tumee, Janet Patrick and -Will Landsborg. president of the Arts Senate. •• Dozer Is Master of Ceremonleo. ' <Carl M. Dozer, who among thoV Hei.tbe oeremo;;. ; i short entotr' ,
Moi-ton Leavitt
Lsav.Itit _’3d, ,,lieEftrLmenL.oL-Ax<ihlv- tectbre. Details of the desJff/? will be posted In the foyer of the Col- lege 6f Fine'Arts.- - -'-Fj-T-Announce Winners at Meetlno- Mr. -Leavitt, winner of the' con* test, is a member of Beta Sigma Rho. social fraternity. He. has won
stage tomorrow by ‘ Tho Tribes of
"Today at 12:S0 the "TrlbeV Ja7 presenting an Arabian entertain- . ment in the Foyer of the:College-:: An Arabia!, orchestra will iurnlshv fsh orientartunes.Tickets on Sale Tomorrow? .-»•••• v ,The cost otthe.Arts Ball ls to be borne oy the women as weil- as the - men. Tickets win not he sold In pairs. Every person attending the
four, dollars. . Tickets will . sale tomorrow after the entertains .ment at 1:00,o'clock. OnVfollow- ing daj’9- they may be securedo:at-1 the Arts Ball desk In the hali rfrom 11:30-1:30.During the next week, each de* partment In The - College of Fin* Arts wilh bold parties to stir up interest in the Ball.
Musical Honorary 
Pledges Thirteen
Thirteen women • -from 
paiimont of Music are being coIR 
ed this year by Sigma Alpha lota; 
the natlonifl honorary- ni-ueiial-Tra^;-: 
ternlty for women
To be eligible all students mast :• 
have a factor of'at least 2.6 and ./ 
must have spent at least one yea*-.- 
at Carnegie. They must • further . 
qualify In regard to musical abilitv 
and character, and must al90 have v 
the recommendation ot the facui-./
Iy. Girls being called this vear- : 
arc: Helen M. Bruce.’35 Ortanza
Clark. Anna Farbotnik ‘37. Inez H. . 
Graham ¿1. 'Louise C. Henderson ' 
•36, Cathryn E. Iaw ’37 Rnth B.' 
Levin -35, Draybelle MacDonald"' 
•aG. Margaret M. Probat '37 Flor--. 
cnee Pyle -36. Annette K. Rosen-- 
son ’j6. and Helen V. ShaneT"*35;':-'i
A.I.E.E. Names New ? 
Committee Chairman s
. Mr. Forman of the.University.of 
West Virginia was named success .': 
so'r to Professor George M. Porter,<.< 
associate professor of Electrical:»:' 
¦Englaeeting aa chairman of .thev;- 
Faculty Counsellors’' • Committee^ 
for-district number two of -the 'A:^L:vV- 
E. E. at the Joint meeting .ot^thev^ 
American . Institute of Electricai^ 
Engineers. Seventeen colleges .were» 
represented —^
The next business meeting- of 
Ar I. E. E. will: be held durlngvthe;. second week- In February: at which,; lt-ls-hoped/ that aTepre'Be^tatlvei.ofthe .'Bell; Telephone-Com pany'>w01^f c 
bevnresent.'to<'dlschBs;;thei>topip)% ^Inoaem’CcunariUnlcatibn.’Bvsteln*.^
¦5/UPI

---------------------------------------------------

TRE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1935
Wat Carnegie 2Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER
r __:_____...WILLIAM LANDSBERGa err___________JULIAN F. MUNSTER
___JEROME HANSON
____HEKBEBT !
FEATURE EDITORS: 
COPY EDITOR: Ruth
. PENDLETON
CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert
The Red Scare
The foltowing i's a James Wechsler, edlto ¦tator. So far It has b - «liege edltors. It' is ;
T
HE HEARST press -has embarked upon a 
campaign which seriously threatens every 
vestige of independent thought and action In 
American education.
Carried on in the name oi "Americanism," 
•which Mr. Hearst so zealously adopts to 
shield bis endeavors, it is represented as a 
drive “to “expose communism In the schools.”
Th ere is grave' evidence, however, that this 
hysteria is directed,, not.agajnst a single po^ 
liticai element, but against all dissenting- 
thougbt. It does not distinguish between faint • 
pink and deep red. It classifies liberals and 
indicate alike as “public enemies"—to be in* 
\restigated, then Imprisoned or deported. It 
•'iss deliberate, ruthless attempt to stifle free 
dom of inquiry and expression and to Impose 
upon American education the terror which 
characterizes education In Germany.
Thus far Mr. Hearst has concentrated his 
fury at Syracuse and Columbia Universities 
where he assigned agents to spy on professors 
suspected of ^radical tendencies.” At Colum­
bia his efforts were bared by Professor George 
•; S. .Counts who forced a reporter to admit that 
^ the ‘-Hearst papers are now stirring up a ‘Red 
Scare'." These steps, the reporter confessed, 
axe part of a nation-wide scheme, apparently 
.-aimed at the ouster of all those educators who 
•, challenge the precepts of Mr. Hearst and the 
fluper-patrlotlc machine he symbolizes.
5V!r. Hearst exerts real influence in America. 
jHlis]. activities, however ludicrous and fantastic 
'tiiey,.niay appear, reach millions, of readers 
-throughout the country. He can be instru- 
-ihehtal In provoking, the mass hysteria which 
set .the stage for the introduction of fascism 
frV Germany. -He can, In alliance with other 
*•101) per-cent American" organizations, so pro­
voke and bewilder the great body of American 
-people that independent research and. dissent-' 
jpg opinion will be summarily banished. .
/ Mr. Hearst is a menace to the' academic 
freedom which students and faculty have 
fought many bitter smuggles to preserve; 
Now7mo!re than ever, in a world fraught with 
»disorder and insecurity, its preservation Is 
most vital. Mr. Hearst declares lie seeks to 
keep the - mind of youth “clean and whole­
some:" We Contend that he te advocating the1 
.¿cadediic goose-step. We belieVe that the 
¿economic and pnlJ.ti.eal facts-of-life should be 
open to scrutiny, analysis-and-decision; we
• see in Mr. Hearst’s policies an attempt to 
reuppress nny consideration of them.
.Faced - with this crusade of reaction and
• AWare of tho’ disaster It foreshadows, -we 
pledge our forces to combat iL-' We condemn 
; lir, Hearst’s' "Red Scare” and! the super-pa- 
L^trfoUc,..fraudulent. (Jevic.es. he ..is employing to
achieve hts ends. The signatories to this 
¡ statement represent widely divergent conflict­
ing political beliefs. We are in accord, how- 
xfever, in our opposition to fascism. We inter- 
pret Mr. Hearst’s onslaught as the vanguard 
of fascism in America; we will use our edi­
torial influence to help stem the tide, to chal- 
, lenge and oppose this crusade aimed at Hitler- 
/ Izlng Atnerlcan education.
C. E. fförizön.
By Charles Parker Hammond The conflict between tbe controlling revolu­tionary parly in Mexico and the Catholic .Church flares anew with, the passage by.the Senate of a bill requiring secular Socialist education in ail the schools in Mexico. ‘ 
While the Senate was taking this action the Chamber or Deputies adopted resolutions call­ing for tbe expulsion from ¿Mexico of all priests, bishops, and archbishops of the Cath- olic Church and for the suppression of four of the Mexican newspapers which have criticized the proposed compulsory adoption of
able right of the State wholly to control the educalion of-Mexican youth. The State alms to “open (lie minds of the people by teaching them to see the world in .the light of science.
This conflict in Mexico is not new. It has aged since 1857. The present ruling
influence.
With the relative merits of this controversy this piece Is not concerned. It is not neces­sary lo take sides to point out that what is going on in Mexico loday has occurred in nearly every country where revolution has swept the land.
Wherever a revolutionary doctrine has dis­placed the status quo (cf. Russia, Italy, Ger­many, Spain, et al.) the dominant Government group has sought to control the education of
1 organized religionGovernment. The drivein Russia was planned to give absolute ¦__trol over education of the young to the Soviet. In Nazi Germany Hiller has tried—and not altogether successfully — to set up a German Church under his own Reichbishop. The back­bone of the Nazi movement, If one may pass over the Thyssens for the purpose of making pointi are the .multitudinous youth groups
on in loyalty to the Nazis long enough to give Hitler time to set up what he hope9 will be a permanent German Reich.
In Italy Mussolini has made his chief over­tures to the youth of the Country. In fact he has even begun his militarization plan with the eight-year olds. To convert only the mid­dle-aged to the Fascist doctrine Is hardly In
campaign .to convert youth to. the New Deal in the United States, although Sir Oswald Mosley^bas enlisted young men In his British 
ivement. If,the major policies succeed In the long
Black Shtrt of the New Deal 
run, however, and if the bulk of the Roosevelt program Is lo become permanent, youth will have to be enlisied in the Administration’s support. Henry Wallace, In his forthright and refreshingly candid book, New Frontiers, stresses the need for selling the New Deal to 5,000 American communities If the former Is to be woven Into the fabric of the nation. Presumably the appeal In most of 'these 5,000 communities must be to the-young men and women who: in the future will give their sup­port necessary to its success. Conversely, If the anti-New Dealers are to gain political sup-
It will be interesting to note to what extent 
the Callea group 1n Mexico will succeed In their efforts to wrest lbe education of the young froih the Church. It does not seem an exaggeration to conclude that the Mexican Government will succeed In direct proportion to the support it receives from those whose education It now seeks to control. Nor is it strange that those who oppose the present trend in Mexico direct a major part of their : the plan for “scientific Socialist
presentation of the Department of Drama so far this season. The play, «whose very moving effectiveness lies in its simplicity and restraint, could very easily lia.ve been overdone; but this production caught the es­sential inood of the play and presented it faithfully.
Strangely enough for a modern play, the setting is a- Spanish Dominican -convent. Against' tills background . Gregorio and Marla Marttnez-Slerra 'have portrayed-a-group of nuns, who represent in that narrow sphere the various types of- women—from the -patient un­derstanding Prioress to the romantic novice or the' fanatical vicaress.- '
The ' story ' centers about Sister Joanna whose intense love of children Is satisfied hen. she is entrusted-with the care of a baby
Writers’ Row .
And wrap me In the comfort of your mantle. In tbe vague unconsciousness of rest. Sleep, I am no coward,I do not shun today:O sleep—Rest me;Rebuild my strength,Like the tendons of a vulture’s wings.
Hang, Shoot, Kill . , Why 5im I bound endless chain, rs that cbafe,•s that restrain?
To break down tbe wall,Of hidden powi all;
My mind Is confusion; Who are they?Who are they?What did they do?
They are the few Who would hold me Trod me down;Cry they for mercy?
I know nothing T>ut strife:Too longI’ve been silent,
1 tremble with anger,My temples throb,
By the crush op the sea.By the ceaseless crush of tbe t
Rage 'white in seething anguish Against gray crags;
I am harder than rock,I am stronger than steel; Neilher shall I be worn away
For I am truth.
Adversities,Crush over me As over jagged rocks;1 am not moved By-the ceaseless crush of the <—Fred Livingston,
“LITERARY NUDISM” AND THEAMERICAN FAMILY 
•New Ycirk University (MCEA)—Superficial . were urged last week to angles other
We're Fed UpC
ONGRESS meets for what promises lo be 
oue of the most eventful sessions in its 
'history. The newspaper headlines shout. 
"-’’Hftuatman Jury Picked.- 
. - The Supreme Court convenes to determine 
whether or not the renouncement by the gov­
ernment of the gold clause Is constitutional. 
Toë;-entire structure of îbê recovery program 
hangs in the balance. The newspaper head­
lines- roar- “Llndy’s Testimony -Damaging.- 
- -Miss'Amelia. Earhart flies over the Pacific 
alone The' feasibility of ocean air transpor­
ts further augmented by this avlatrix s 
The newspaper headlines yell, 
¦•Jafsle' Identifies Bruno. 
wjLet's -awaitthe result of. the Saar plebiscite. 
The-fate of Europe • depends upon it. Welt 
v buy ft:paper and read the screaming headlines, 
¦îi'Hauptmau.Jury Out Ten Hours. •- 
i.'V-Hefldltnes about :,!Bri}no.-', 
•V.v.HeadUnesaboutvrJafsie/’ •
Headlines about"Undy. •............
B.SDJ1D593Q9u e9s 1ti91uon1 u 1 S S
“•'sr“Our professor is all -wet-.;-' Such was- the. ^%tl(ten«sign' which Hgreeted.T-a - geology prof ï.fit.Vj0bérllhi6nv.hlB'ireturn-:fromj,buying ^a,n«5<.after falling Into a, flufiny
elaborated vjlth many skillful charcterizations.
Although ft is a play which relies • almost completely on characterization rather than plot, on talk rather than action. It succeeded in holding Its audience spellbound. Not a lit­tle of this effect can be attributed to the sin­cerity of characterization, to the successful portrayal of the mood of calm and .dignity of the cloister. The bare settings, the severe white robes of the sisters emphasized the im­pression of the whole.
The Little Theater production of this two- act Spanish play is rounded and unified. Al­though the play Is 50 planned that there is no single leading character, there were several noteworthy performances. Patti Littell ns Sis­ter Joanna, who "understands children,” play­ed with'a- fine restraint and sensitiveness, ex­pressed for the mo6t part In very skillful pantomlne. • - .... ........................
Dorothy Neumann was a wise and Impres­sive Mother Prioress, who spoke with calm dignified assurance. Also effective was Marie Noir. the severe ahd amusing Vicaress. and Jane Wftmer, the gay young girl, although the latter seemed rather perfunctory in making her farewells in the last scene. Roy Minet did well as .the kind, worldly, old doctor; and Regis Joyce, the lover of the young girl, re­vealed a line speaking' voice, although he seemed a bit more stiff than his part required. .-Theotk€r-iiun3-nia<3«-'2n-cffecilve..ba£kgrQiipd,-. both as a group and in their-Individual lines.
It is'not very often thata Little Theater au­dience finds-it necessary to .use handkerchiefs I after a performance.. That, it did so.'after "Cradle Song”- may nbt'.prove it a great.,play, but it doès show undeniably that the perform*, ance.wji? Klntíerelv moving and excellent... ’ . EMILY KRAMER. .
The lie-detector is being used by the North­western - University Láw school - officials to force - students to return stolen ;boòks to the 
library.
critics of study the Ameri tha:n triangular dramas and "literary nudism’ by Professor. Ray Baber, of the department of sociology. ¦
“In. certain sophisticated circles it is the mode to smile .condescendingly at 'marriage and family: life, as quaint holdovers from an earlier.and simpler culture,” Professor Baber
CO-EDS AND CULTURE
Syracuse University (MCEA) — Co-eds do not have as fine an appreciation of cultural- things as do the students of women’s colleges, is the belief- of the Syracuse student deans.. Women’s colleges produce the type of women well equipped for domestic life, they believe, while co-edu.cational colleges produce a type best suited for a business or professional ca­reer. The graduates of women’s colleges, they- say. assume a more Independent attitude to-
STUDENTS FAVOR'DATE BUREAU
Syracuse University (MCEA)—The popular­ity of the suggested-(hishebyfavoiDaily Orange.
An Inter-Social council hais been formed ton! the administration ot the bureau and a plan1 has been drawn up for Us operation. Every,itudent desiti bureau and will si preferences "at' the 
The final step 1
date ’
AFTER BIDDING fond farewells and final good-byes, al lbe Beta 
Tau Lambda formal last week, everyone was surprised to find 
everyone else perusing (?) at tbe Hazelwood Literary Associa­
tion, a few minutes later ... most intellects managed to grab 
a seat, but I do believe friend Michael needs another book.
THE BETA PI formal was okay, but why did they have to close 
up that’private room just when I was beginning lo enjoy It? . . . 
I overheard this just-before. JeavJng: .."Did .you bring a dorm 
girl?” ... . "Oh.noi she were’nt so dorm!” . . . ouch!
IT SEEMS THAT a bunch of «the babes at the Trl Gam lea dance 
the oth«r day had mislaid their dates . . • after a thorough - 
search they finally located those gentlemen in the tap room tell* 
log funny quesllonmark stories < . . hmmm.
What Printer using the alias ‘O'Brien has boasted falsely of 
being engaged to a New York girl? This sudden engagement an­
nouncement has caused a. certain Forbes Hall girl a lot of em- 
- barraasment.
THE: SOPH PHLOP was fair enough, but don’t you think that 
• tooderntstl^ color schemes in black and Bitvei'-lacked that fln4'
! touch—to say nothing of that Initial touch? . . . Among the no­
tables: Noord vs. Schultz, Dana vs. Nichols, Burke vs. Weltacb, 
-Lewis vs. Archer, Grlner vs. McCrea, Lennox vs. DeMutb, Pren- 
des vs. Green . . . wandering: George Stewart, Johnny Weln- 
bear; Ernie Schleusner, Les Shomo, Margaret Fitzgerald, Emily 
Baumgarner, and could we miss him, Joseph M(hm . . . Dean 
Green and I really got around, talcing In both the Beta PI formal 
' and the Soph Hop.',
JUNIOR PROM CHAIRMAN Holiday was half an hour late for „
Kinematics Lab last Tuesday . . . excuse: he was scouting for
the Tartan, wherein his puss was published . . . The class cut- 
' ups rounded up one hundred and flfty copies, cornered a D. U.
pledge, and told him that Bill had requested that the Tartans be
delivered to him at the lodge . . ..go easy on the lad, William, 
for he was merely the innocent tool of a malicious plol.
DID YOU NOTICE that Mary York sits directly behind the play­
ers’ bench at the Basketball Games and cheers and cheers and 
.cheers?.. .- . . I.worider who.lt is now? . . . it certainly couldn’t
• be thè whole tearri.
"A egg ’to thè foisr rldérs’of the Arch. Dept, who were, 
seeii heading towards Homestead the other nlghl.
BY THE WAY, did any of you gennamen happen to feast yo’
• .optlcles on that cute sou’llien belle from the drama school? . . . 
see J Provost, Jr., for .pbone number and -particulars ,-. par­
ticularly particulars.
THE OTHER NIGHT at one of those parties, Jim. Phillips and 
Ed Gleason were playing- tug o’ war . , . Jody Kuhn had very 
graciously ótiéred to take the part of the-rope . the boys drop- - 
ped their play . Miss Kuhn is now nursing a sore head.
ADD SIMILE
/111 register with the \ or her interest
ingemeuts will b^the pairing of the Individuals, both of whom must first consent to the match. - The aim of the bureau is to “bring abGbC between students having similar tastes an$
ra'UnlVtifSity.
"Propaganda and .the sword, assisted by mob* passion, are the two.greatest obstacles '
tbe maelstrom of mob madness ts tb read be­tween Uie-lines of the dally newspapers -and be lohirant.-” .........-.............- -
Où Second Tjiouglit
Dudley D. Pendletoi
The Fate of the Saar
Tonight the official results of the Saar Plebiscite will probably reach America showing with little doubt that Ihe sympathies of the major­ity of. the Saarlanders are with Nazi Germony rather than with the FreiicTrRfe'put/“
Guy V. Miller of the Pitts­burgh Press,
leant dot^ on
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
Within its scant 790 square miles lies one of the most important coal fields in all Europe with its more than a hundred individual mines and the ten major iron and steel plants which they feed.
France Controls' Mines 
At the end of the war the mines and industries of the Saar were turned over to-the French govern-, ment by a provision of the treaty of Versailles as part payment for the damaged suffered by France at the hands of Germany. Rather
itants could choose for themselves under whose rule they would be.
The fifteen year period came to an end last Sunday when nearly 100 per cent of the 539.000 eligible voters turned lip at the polls.
but who,have since moved were enabled to come back to vote with funds supplied by the Nazi govern-
United States, maoy of them -<
first place Nazi Germany has he^munti m(M*A fliitívA ' witk 1... .
gamla than France, staging giEa. lie “Return the Saar” derar—¦ tions and flooding_the_VaHe’ _ German papers. Then too. French officials placed In charged -• •• Saar aroused a storm of when they tried to Frenchify it, population by requiring that French be laugh in oil the schools. Since then Franee v— •using her Infl “status quo.'1Even those who have long chao. pioned the cause of the "statDi quo" began to lose their confidence before tho poll, for the Vatican hai said little of the treatment or the Roman Catholics by the Nazi and the many socialist and cor refugees In the valley se< be having little Influence people. Besides, a preliminary vote last week of those who had to work on the day of tbe eleclioe showed a decided majority for Nail rule.Territory May Be DividedThe fact that a majority of thi Saarlanders vote for German coo. Irol dors not necessarily r
of the League of Nations on the eve of the • plebiscite lo r¿ ceive reports and lo interpret Us result of the balloting. The lGb need.not be consldered as a wholt and'the Council may décide to ¿ vide up the tèrrltory giving certalv
sections under iij
tion, for here the League of Nnllons will have scored its greatest cess or Its greatest fallue. If the voting be entirely without disorder, as . Sunday’s'radio reports seeirfei to indicate, the prestige of the Lea­gue will be given a! boost that even lead to the cooperation of the United Stales. Let us hope that this i3 90.____
People You Ought 
To Know ,
CLAN NEWS
The Cleveland Women’s Clan has 
decided to conduct Its activities 
under Ihe leadership of four repre­
sentatives rather' than one preal- 
publish,” he_ said “hut I do dent. The governing committee 
includes: Helen Weldleln. Estelle 
King Andrews, Verne Gottdlner, 
and Dorothy Newell.
Alumni in Akron. 'Ohio recentlyTwo summers past, the r:uldes the destinies of Carnegie’s lawmakers drove a heavy Whitetruck and delivered soda pop and 
beach resorts. He had to'get up O’How. former professor in the De-carbonated. beverages to held before Christmas, Professor
at 5:80 a. m., the bo: were mighty heavy, and the hour '¿ong but- lie ; claims - "It -wathe. Akron. University.-. r.was, guesi- speaker.
The group plans to have "eel- i committeeman study- togethers” In order lo bring Ing the advisability of placing closer relationship among alumni and their- wives. In January lbe/ will have a dance. The AlmiD Council made a fin-3 decision when Alumni have decided to reinstate Akron in the Directory of Claia.Ivltles The new o'" ...............*quarters. “We shall have to gel every activity organization to use the-house as its headquarters;” j)e
TARTAN CORRECTION
The TARTAN wlshesi to correct 
a statement in the issue of Decem­
ber 11 referring to Charles Wil­
liamson and the American Associa­
tion of University • Professors. 
First, that Prof. Williamson was 
graduated from Lafayette Colleg;«
i math professor ;
Ì Jim Sharbaugh have deeded to call it "quits.”
Wli^t Carnegie senior has been thrown out of Schenley High 
Night School for taking loo many "French leaves?’’
Either government or private 
dowments by men of wealth must 
foster thé work of progress which 
is being made through science and 
educational agencies. If these 
agencies arc to be supported entire­
ly by ..the government, the money 
must come from taxes.”—Dr, kavl 
T. Compton, president of the Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology.
.. Girls, in a dormitory at the Uni­
versity of Kansas decided that they 
were indulging loo freely • In^. cuss 
words, when their ' stockings 'de­
veloped runs, when the coffee turn- 
bad, etc. So they opened a 
pooii. operated an honor; system.
N hCîiaVàTcent.3 . and a half, days there
In M
“dariilt” she puts '¦Damn”.brines After the first vas $1.67 iu '
• A dance committee at V. M. |. had some . barrassfng.moments when. Eddie Duchln rfe- fTused"to.-plav:;untll;a grand,piano could: be.li arted from the next town
camps in the United- States than there are colleges end Universities. Thev former. number^l,641. the lat- ter 1-166 ^
The favorite bit of reminiscence Cor ..a.Minnesota University, pro­fessor concerned his early days, when he once cuded a lecture by
intelligent question. Another long silence. Flaally a bov’s hand went yp: What kind of-a cigaret’n heas^ed

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, JAfttABT 15, 1935
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACKXkLi
@®fir't
BY JERRY HANSON--------
Basketball Squad Engagés 
Geneva, Temple This Week
Both Outfits to Giy 
Strong Competition
riTMTtE-BIT:
I -with Westminster, West Virginia, and Pitt.
THE CARNEGIE-PITT BASKETBALL ATROCITY has run the length 
and breadth of the campus, ¿nd It's old stuff by now, but the front page 
story gives a well-strained account of it which may be taken as the 
iluff. Co-football manager Robbie, who was one of the score keep* 
vlll vouch for the version of the timing episode; And those of 
you who didn't see the holding which was being done may speak to thei- 
ers about it.
Of course it doesn’t do any good to crab about tte affair, but put- 
it in print gets It off the chest, and that alone is worth any ad- 
;e criticism which might arise therein.
The game was the biggest thriller the Carnegie gym will ever see, 
and except for the final play,' it was well nigh perfect. The Tartans 
and Panthers were in line fettle, and it waB a brilliant fight throughout. 
In comparison, the Duquesne game was a complete flop. The Car* 
ie play was characterized by clumsiness and wild shot? at the 
basket. Teg charity attempts were' especially .poor—one out of nine 
the record for the second half, I believe. It looked very much as 
.'though the Tartans were very tired spiritually and physically after the 
%hree previous close Gm 
Jcaa'l blame 'em much,& Ted Riggs kept the Skibo end of the score in the running—that hoy 
^|h<is a lot of class and ability! in making the ball respond.
3ANDV KRITSCHER WILL BE SEEN OUT on the floor more frr
The public pressure Induced a consultation about Andy’s knee, 
h the result that Dr. Steele, specialist In that line, made an examln- 
in which resulted favorably for the Tartan line-up. Dr. Steele pro­
ceed the heavy brace unnecessary, and o-kayed Andy's playing 
h no more than an elastic guard over the ailing Joint.
But I' still hear that his particular ailment Is similar to having a 
sr of broken, glass between the Joint and cap of the knee, ¡t doesn’t 
nd »ke much fun—but )f Kritseher doesn't mind, I guess It's- all 
Ight.
CNigi9UrE GARDEN-WILL REOPEN FOR skating, and hockey, about 
liddle of the month, despite earlier reports. Fred Dubln is still 
looking for hockey candidates—he looks forward to quite an attractive 
schedule.The Carnegie socoer hooters dropped by a point to Swissvale Sat­
urday. The crew has been playing for a couple of months now, and 
each game is a pretty tight contest.Sy Brown is coaching the wrestling team, and it looks like aome- 
ilng to> take advantage of. A glance into the wrestling room at the 
the classes in action will convince you that it’- ~gym when you i 
science. Practice periods are the m
THE PITTSBURGH CLANSMEN t
Star Looper
i formerly announced.
ru --------- having a-combin&tion-buffet-and
smoker for tonight after the Geneva game. Tickets, which will 
dude the coat of seeing the game and refreshments afterward in 
Thistle Hall, will be sold fop ninety cents in the lower hall of the gym.
The committee in charge includes: BUI Rleger, chairman; Homer 
Stering, Guy Halferty,,Walter Flanagln, A1 Dyer, Joseph Fisher, Bobo 
[Smith, and Jimmy Leonard.
Geneva Performs Here To­
night; Owls Saturday
By Jim Hughes 
The Tartan cagers are going to find that they will have llieir hands- full, during the coming t On the schedule for this k are Geneva and Temple, both which have proved that they furnish plenty of opposition to the Plaid outfit, which so far has been faring so exceptionally
from Geneva were rated threat to the Dukes’ wi streak, before their encounter, and 1 even if they, lost out In the end, they put up a lot of good, tough competition during- the Since the Dukes have already I beaten the Tartans, it is a natural | assumption that the Scots going-to have such sweet sailing during this game. Geneva unacquainted with , outstanding I teams, for in past years they I have turned oat some very fine j Representatives" year's meeting ] another ' Waterloo weakened Tartans 
On Saturday, the victorious Tem­ple Owls will also come to visit | tbe Tartans’ home floor Tech Gymnasium. Without a doubt, I one of I >• far in
the country this, season. Their latest accomplishment has been . defeat which they handed the fast-stepping Panthers when they in Philly last week*end. Tem- has been having a very suc­cessful season so far. and this de­feat of a team which took over the Plaid,, no matter how slightly, only concretes their rating.Included on the list of the fa­talities at the hands' of the Owls are such teams as Indiana, Ohio State, Drake, and Penn State. ' Al­though none of these teams
In the freestyle Coach Risedorph has decided to race Poudleton, Froelich, Hughes, and MacGulre.
Coldwell and ono other from Dyrne., Kuira, and WeeDer. 
So far Carnegie has imeets this year, while Pitt gone through three or four. Their most successful meet was at Delft- waro where they won decisively, placing first in
Lindberg, who haB almost every freestyle and backstroke record ii Pittsburgh, and Jack Denny. 
Holldfiy, who has neen suffering
’Swissvale Bodters 
DownPlaitli, 1-0
Swissvale hooters and the Car- 
¡negle soccer team battled on even 
[terms throughout the first half of 
exciting game at the Swissvale 
held last Saturday. After a mad 
pcramble in front of the goal Jack 
it Swissvale made the lone point 
-of the game making it 1-0 against 
iihc Tartan.
legle
jLReld 
ÌFlòyd0n .
Swissvale
___V Pate.Newt<A. Murray ., Meneely , j.'Murray .. McHorg
Goal kicked by Jack.Time of halves: 45 minutes.
Rumors Rampant 
f Over Pitt Game
his account—and if any reader [thinks there is any of the sour Grapes , reaction behind this,, it Is. fwell that he be informed that the .entire Carnegie campus has its Imlnd made dip definitely that the*Tartan never did lose '-----Pitt—and there is i grapes.
eluded on the Scots’ schedule, no conclusions • can be drawn by pos­sible comparison, this Imposing list of victories uoea establish the fact that Temple is on a winning- streak and are sure to do every­thing In their power to keep up
Intramurals Will 
¦Open This Week
Intramural basketball opens at 
Carnegie this week with promise of 
exciting season. The various 
ns have been practicing for 
the past few weeks and many in­
vesting observations have been 
made. Delta Tau Delta, last year’s 
champions, look as strong as ever 
and have further strengthened their 
with several promising fresh- 
Beta Theta Pi, the American 
League winners, weakened by the 
graduation of such stars as Stewatt 
and Hower, is depending on 
year’s veterans and a newly 
Quired freshman whom the Betas 
think will be burning up thé floors. Nothing definite has been discover­ed concerning the Theta XI quintet, the other champion team of 1034’s battles. This team seems to possess 
much of its former strength
the games sched­uled' for thé latter part of the week and the early part of next wfeek.. .\ Federal League January 37—Delta. Tau . Delta vs. Plil Sigma Kappa; Phi Psi Club vs. Sigma Phi Epsilon.January 21-^-Kappa Sigma vs. 
Kappa Delta Rho,
McGill Hall.Jauuàry 21—Tau Delta Phi i McGill Hall; Boss Hall vs. Alpi Phi Delta..
Tartan Swimmers 
Try Pitt Saturday
First Meet of Season for 
Skibos; Plebes to Swim
diving and colds- preva- lnnt OQ-the campus, it.ls-difficult-' predict the exact line-up so sobn,. it It is expected to fun,something ke the following:
Heatley will , take .'over th'e div­
ing duties-which Dave'Prej cated.-when he-left school; Von der Lancken.- and Culler. aro scheduled to enter the breaststrike,'witli-Tat- terson and Sherman also available.the back6troke Holiday and Boutelle are almost certain, and the freestyle Is open to several, Includ­ing'Von der Lancken, Holiday, Derdyne, Leavitt, Dennison, and Kftmnierschmltt.
The ineet i6 to he at the Metro­politan Athletic Club and will be­gin sit eight o'clock. The Metro­politan Is tue old Keysu 
The frosh will swim a Pitt plebes For the freBhman team It will be R. Patterson and J. Pendleton In
i Carne. Performance.
likely to repeat the
Tartans Prop 
Two Battles
Hannum Crew Loses to 
Pitt and'Duquesne
CAPACITY CROWDS
erratic. The fight was there and1 tho.Tartans wore really trying hard and deserved better breaks thun
Itallze sufficiently on. it 
The second loss was to n smart 
looking Duquesne outfit that hus 
been undefeated in Its past seven? teen games. These lads Lad plenty of power and functioned smoothly to win in a decisive 3G-23 The«
Pitt Fray Close; Tartans Tire 
Against Ililltopper6
Jinxed basbetball team ndilgfl niorè defeats to its string this past week. Coming up against two strong teams, tho boys fought gal- lantly but fell before the Irrepres­sible onsloughl. Tho first CGFf Mbf to Pitt, 36-37, In a much disputed game that found Tech lending until the last ten seconds. Som© claim Ihnt tho game went ti minute long, others claimed a foul on part of Pitt, and the remainder sort to sundry stories of tho so nature. Theso remarks notwith­standing. the score remains and It was a good battle. * The Skibos’ gone defense was functioning nice­ly though the shooting
shooting wero deadly accurate nud the defense was practically impena- liable. Tho Plaid managed score J'rom a distance but looked rather tired aud the Hmtoppen Uud things‘pretty much their owi
Blrcli of tho Dukes exhibited of the finest basketball we seen In somo time, doing the thing just at the right time aud de­fending with an assurance tlmt beautiful lo watch. Tho Tar resorted to u man to man defeuse that did not seem to bo as effoctlv6 as the zone method they have been
Both games played to capacity crowds, the gym being iiaoked to overflowing. If tho Skibos got their stride from here oh. tho return games should both be thrillers and______.give the lads ample chance« little | deem these two defeats.
National Squash 
Tourney Coming ¦.
Now that the professional squash 
tourney has been completed aud-. 
the, city courts and attention no.
hoped that a large list of Pittsburgh
negle for . applicai:* sented In only How
lous application to it is repre-few' le wmedium of relaxation^ and It is hoped that from this group a number of can­didates for the National tourna: ment may be developed.’
at Carnegie.' Mr. Moses has pressed his willingness to instruct : a group in th show interest.sport 1C enough
what they equal later that
W.o m e n's Athletics
----by-----
MARGIE GREEN ,
In the placement match for rlflery, shot laBt week, Peggy Shultz, Nancy Chancellor,Mnry Wettach all came out
atch,national, intercollegiate contest, will take place all this week, this, ten of our best shooter participate in ,the prellmli while only the five highest scorers- will actually enter the match. It was with great pride that we casually remarked, time and again, to family, and Pitt friends after last year's, match', Oh,, Yes, the nation-
Hashed right during, the- thick of |ihc final action—the developed Ini should show proof of the »Wilis episode related above. But visit to the newspaper plants personally conducted by William Lanrtsberg, Editor of the Tartan, failoil to discover the print. Two of the plants stated that their photographers had left several min- before the end of the game, Llie third produced many plc- but not the one sought after. The pictures used in the papsrs ‘o illustrate- the "gome u\d not" in- 'nde that one, either. It had ap- irenlly been spirited away.
¡1935 Thistle Budget 
Is Approved By Council
[hat meeting.
Income for the. yearbook.-is de­lved from four principal sourcos, ^overusing, organization pictures. «Ight Student Council' appropria­tions, end yearbook .sales ^'At the nrp;sftut':tfme.a25.TMi»r.l< 
l,een sold. Advertising for tho . 833 book is being solicited entirely 
^ members of the‘staff; In
REPORTERS GET ASSIGNMENTS
All reporters will be able ti in their assignments at the Tar- _n Office any time Tuesday after. 11-30 a. in. Members of the fresh-
4:00 o’clock.
Rliroußli (this work i outside agency.:
i distinction this
when : tention- -- . assured us, to give up her position às tènnis manager In W.. A¿- A. Whether It will be Blllv *r' her studies to benefit by tMs .tadYOe- ihains to be .seen thing It won’t.ibehad to spend !wholfe' weeks.of scouting around 'before' we .could find someone who -coiild fill her. ¿hoes'—r mean; fulJ0.ll her position.'At least, we. recognize thr------
sary qualifications' thusiasm, dependa uine school spirit in Sally Crillma As the first dorm .sirl to. he elected to the board; she -wlll ; recelye a hearty and sincere welcome.:-.- We realize only too well: the work-that the new tennis court will!'involve, andipromise to help her all we.can.. .Rompers'are' all well, and. good for basketball practice, byt can you imagine anyone running about campus in such attire, with only a- rubber raiucape fastened under her chih, and jauntily thrown back from her shoulders? A very ducky-, looking appearance, to be t>ur«,-but in a 30 degree temperature—brrrr
STUDENT NIGHTS! f
every Wednesday and Friday |
featuring Will Ryshanek |
and bis Schenley Dance Band 2
- - .................... m Ifroid Ten until Two J, I: : ; with Breakfast at Midnight . J;
Special Rates to Student Parties \
For iniomation/telephone MA flower 6400
FORMAL DANCE every SATURDAY NIGHT |
DOLLAR per person

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTÁN, TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1935
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
Patre edited by Night School rtudei
» Edlloxtol Board o£
G. W. VESSELS H. INGRAM E. F. WHITE • WILLIAM E- HAKE
Examinations
Now that the close of the first semester is close at hand, many of us feel that perhaps we weren't honest with ourselves as we could wish we had been. Naturally, v/ith >few exceptions. the night students
nation week, espesially those who are spending their first year at Carnegie. Jiowever, these individ­uals need not feel that the sole purpose of examinations is to en- ble the faculty to "flunk” as many victims as they possibly can. The professors and instructors are much more sympathetic than one 16 led to believe throughout the
is bad, and that ninny good stu- > upset by the prospect
suitable substituto for the time honored examination to enable the instructor to evaluate the students' scholastic worth. For this reason, while we may object to examina­tions on the principle of the thing, we may as well accept them as an' unavoidable evil, similar to death and: taxes.
The first.year students who
V'who Indulge in good naturcd '¦ldddlng” about this subject; should
.bfc,lbV;new men, who; left to him- seif;:-would make a creditable mark.
•• Instead of worrying the new or recently registered sLudents with harrowing tales of the poor chance they have of passing their-courses, doesn’t it seem more or lAs rea­sonable that a Word of encourage- jneii.t at this time might have just • ttieropposite effect to the more 'sombre tales and help the student
. - who have weathered ..years storms make it a point to give moral support to . the
life of thé average’ night student— the first week of examinations.
NIGHT LIGHTS
/ holidays . .andv/. ndwV he sings . it.. "Dough,;- dotighji' a ^thousand, times¦' doughV-1'',.;;. •‘¿'^-•^i-'|Icpermottwent''''td '^lotlM;^8urIiig:;Chrl8tmas vacation" Bjid-.. Russell?Goywood qulred .a beautlful .tan on a South; •:;Am!ei1can: cruise . '-.V . :d, for -the -llf^:if> xapltallst!.'. - $1,000 ¦ award (Iri gTeeh'cigar coupons) of­fered for the'identity of the win­ner'Of, the Sparks scholarship last year"' -• . A-peachy pun has been saved, for this occasion . . . T. P. "Rockwell, instructor In Heating '¦'arid‘Ventilating, was elected secre- -. iary of the A. S. H. V. E. (and ' Roosevelt couldn’t figufe that outi)" . . . • Now It -Can Be Told Dept:—Nell Blochlnger broke his ' s New Year’s Eve while •play-
' floor-scrubher In the short space ¦‘¦of thee months, aided- aQd abetted by Reita Berkenhush . . . The Phi Nus .one hiring.a. detective _to find - out who Inserted the write-up of . their, dance—it’s the best they've had in years and they want to .hire the fellow as a press-agent!
Idle Thoughts ' 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
wn to brass tacks and look ;
t day after New Ye!
little better If one /ay Into the harmdays intervening.¦Ith, say rvenlng.Perhaps by starting a suggestionthis effect it may be tlble that when the next year's schedule Is made up ways and neans can be found to delay the •eturn to school after the holidays.
That the social committees have been selected for the balance of Glad to meet you. Hope
Syracuse Fosters 
Inventors’ Course
see all of you, if hot in person, ;rhaps at some of . the dance iall be on -the lookout for*
That by 'the time this Is read the Post-Holiday Dance will be history and the next'offering will be the Industries Dance. I’m look- ng. forward to this function' with ntlclpatlon as I am alw?ys 6ure f pleasant.surprises—so what?
Didja Notice
THAT that eertaln mug who. wondered If the orchestra at the last N. S. C. danee could read music never played anqte
t leap-At least';THAT while It Is r 'ear, three little girlies fr ¦esmn«tte Have been driving 
boys to night¡chool.
student lastweek.
id to Nei isdáy.áln . group of
headache.THAT tl the high ro ton last Tn THAT a 
boys from the ' sticks hold weekly get-together at the. Car­negie Inn. You. can always tell who Is paying by the small amount that he eats. ’ THAT tjie Social Chairman had a birthday. What,, no party?. vTHAT ; thja paper' is. knoi Man. '•THAT two fellows from the drama department have taken up gardening. People must not throw vegetables any i THAT a an Power Plant out why some culm piles smell
THAT that certain columnist still Insists on .usurping our «THAT.” So what? ..THAT one of the scriveners absent-mindedly walked through '
Ducat Distribution 
Will Be Governed
Registration Cards Required 
To Identify Recipients
The officers of the Night College 
of Fine,Arts wish to call the 
tion of all students registered in 
that College to the following regu­
lation. Due to the fact that there 
has been much duplication of effort 
in the past In the distribution ol 
tickets for functions of the Night 
College of Fine Arts, it has been 
decided to centralize the distribu­
tor In the future, commencing 
¦ith the next social event, officer 
of tho College will he stationed at both ends of the third floor of the Arls Building. Upon presen­tation of the students registration card, Ihey will distribute tickets the students. While every student, ho has paid the activities fee will
A curious lot of gadgets are credited tc the.members of ProfeB- ior Simon T. Hart's class In Ma­rine Design In the College of Ap­plied Science at Syracuse Univer­sity. This class is unusual in that the students are not taught to do things la any set way but are nl- wed to try their Land at deBign- e anything that they wish. Professor Hart explains that stu­dents in mechanical ' engineering to find out if they should try designing or confine themselves to research. “We give them a cbam
suits include devices to clean shrimp, machines to manufacture pencils, paper clips and metal coat hangers, centrifugal gas engines, and-other things-of a similar-nn- “We don’t expect valuable
with imagination attack; old problems from a n angle, and, there are mighty fow persons either in college
secret ’.ot, his success,” he declares. !‘And remember that it was Napo lean who. first used the flying, wedge ¿which'was. made into afoot; ball-play.” Professor Hart'is IhN Cnventor.himself. '•To get his students to conceivc the various devices, he first sets them to. work on several stei typed' problems in drafting, such
rect strength of the materials. .Then each student , must design a machine which will' write hi name. „ After that.-they, receive a list of problems and are told “pull the- answers out of tie a The problems Include
bristles in a br^sh, and anything they 'can Imagine.' Many of; the graduates ..are., now.- successful de*
Activities Fee Rates
Are Low at Carnegie
: nual activiti ‘.at registration. This fund is„used to defray the expenses of the vari­ous functions presented' by the .'Nighty group.
.' .-¦While it should be understood : that there is .a.vast difference be- '.tween Night Colleges and Day Col- • .leges, it Is. interesting in compari­son to note that the students who 'are enrolled at the University of ^Vermont are required to pay an ac­tivities’ fee of thirty dollars.: ;-7 Only medical, graduate.and spe* clal students are exembt. Admin-
College Art 
Studio
; foratile eervico of students
'V liABGEST SELECTION OF X V ' PORTABLE AND • BTANDARD-BIZED
TYPEWRITERS
1 $14.95 to $75.00
T; AV TTPEWWre#\ 
"puräi*"r * *
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.iMJBBRTT. AVENUS "
from church with male- escorts.
A politician is a man who stands iörwbät'höihiriRöothera-wiU-faU •for.:—Connecticut Carnes.
ties and guarantees a stabilized fi­nancial batanee.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
6823. FORBES STREET
Secretaryship of Engineering 
Is Held by Russell W. Lahr
RUSSELL W. LAHR Secretary of the Night College of Engineering
Reginald Seeks Solace 
For Lackof Complaints.
Dear reader, your friend the Rov­ing Reporter is losing his grip. His all seeing.eye Is growing dim, or perhaps nothing has happened any­way.' You see it is-this way: Tbi6, being the complaint division ’ of- this'newspaper, it falls our poor lot to seek some gripe and then GRIPE.' This week we have looked high, low and average and have found nothing. Can you imagine! ' Nothing. That is nothing of inter­national Importance, ot course we found one* eensle weensie little gripe-down in the Plaid office. Some
have to buy tickets to get in now. Imagine, dear reader. It costs money now to bring out- the. most of the best. Shall we let you-
that be and.
An investigation- at the Univer­sity of Iowa shows that one of every eleven campus engagements esults In marriage. •
Vaaear college was founded by 'a brewer who wanted t<3 see If women really could be educated._________
sb^m bkIhmRfIJl
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
vely (RTHduRtlon I
Student Is Well Known- 
On Campus for His 
Activities Work
Russel H. Lahr. Mr. Lahr has been on the campus several and is at present registered i;
with three awards of the Nigh: Student Council Insignia. Mr. Lahr is alfeo serving in the capac­ity of. Assistant Social Chairman ‘ ‘ hi
the preparation and execution of plans for the various social func­tions sponsored by the Council. He is also a member of Nu Sigruu Alpha Fraternity, an honorary fra-
Students Should Heed 
. Parking Requirements
Thé readiest and most convenient 
locations''are not always the best. 
The sLudents who used the Park 
Mansions drive recently discovered 
s to their cost. This driveway private property and parking is prohibited. There are ample park­ing facilities in thé neighborhood of the school without oncroaching qn privates property. It • may be• walk some; slight dis- the destination but this ivolded bÿ arriving beforethe choicest parking spaces
Righto I — We*re o bit 
snooty about our draw* 
ing inks—choice of ihe 
best draftsmen for Jihe 
’’last 54 years. Give 'em 
i fumble I
CHAS. M. HIGGINS â CO., tngRæiçgR S71ÍNIntb$LllBpHISGINS'¦ American
DRAWING INKS
Industries to Hold 
Dance January 26
The NigKt College of Industries 
will present its first dance of the 
current season on Saturday eve­
ning, January 26. The dance will 
be held in Thistle Hall. While no 
definite decision has been made re­
garding the selection of an orches­
tra for this affair, several well 
known groups of musicians have 
been considered. The decorations will be in keeping with the modern
The Industries students are urged to remember this date, Jar.- ! 26, and get their big moments
Final Examinations to 
Begin -Monday, Jan. 21
In one more week the final ex­aminations for -the first semester will.h^. »inder way. Monday, Jun-
unless excused by the head of tho department. The time and place of the examinations will be given to the students by the instructor In their classes.
This notice is not meant as a warning for tho start of the cram­ming season. The student learns nothing by cramming. The mind becomes cluttered with a huge mass of unassociated data which renders normal clear thinking im­possible.
Students Prepare for 
Approach of.Exam Week
This ¡5 Phil Spase Ihe nc*» 
hound. Unfortunately there is Do 
news for me to hound. Looking around this rag, I seek inspiration And lo and behold it is right dm door. Did you notice the noli™ that fills the space lo the left nr here! Examinations! i susp that the article was written bv of the more learned of niv legues. Perhaps he has never’ taken an examination. I always cram for miue.- You know how it’s done y0r pick out all or the data, and re. member the choice morsels ihere. of. There is only one drawback, by some occcult reasoning, or w|£ the aid of mirrors, the professor al­ways knows what the choice mor­sels are and.he never even
|HE INSISTENCE ON THE BEST IN 
MEN'S APPAREL, WHICH IS NOTA­
BLE AMONG COLLEGE MEN AND 
COLLEGE TAILORS EVERYWHERE, 
IS REFLECTED IN THE PREFERENCE AT COL­
LEGES FROM COAST TO COAST FOR KOVER- 
ZIP, THE INVISIBLE SEAMLINE CLOSURE.
» cj^lt C^ltLcaaù
. famous Chicago tailor lo 'Univttsiiy 
mm, says—"I have repeatedly 
rejected the ordinary zipper fly fastener because the uncovered 
metal detracts from, rather than adds- to, a well-tailored gar­
ment. The new Kover-Zip fly is the complete answer, as evi­
denced by its popular acclaim among students.
Ay ... leading Evanston
outfitters to North­
western men, comment—“We are always looking for the latest 
improvements in men’s clothing. Without doubt, Kovcr-Zip 
woutd be so classified. This new covered fastener insures the 
neat and stylish fit so necessary to the well-dressed college man."
O,MU, Jin* college t«U^, d.jL,
tndcue ICcvcT.—'^Jiy as the only slide ^astenez 
{U {n clothes
WALDES KOH-I-NOO
BEST DRESSERS AMONG 
COLLEGE MEN CHOOSE 
KOVER-ZIP CLOSURE
ihe FINEST" and MOST 
EXPENSIVE slide fastener
C.S.EDMAN
PRINTER - 6470 Monitor Street
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY. 
COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL.
...........ART—;—
FOR ALL ILLU STR AT1VE 
PURPOSES
Peopies- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
‘THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVESYSTEM
Did yoii ever notice..in a roomful of people, . the 
différencie between one cigarette and another,.$W 
wondetfzMiy Chesterfields have such a pleasing aroma
Many things kave to do with the aroma 
of a cigarette. . . the kind of tobaccos 
they are made of. . . the way the to­
baccos, are blended........ the quality of
the cigarette paper.
I
T takes good things to 
make good things.
Someone said that to get 
the right-aroma in a cigarette, 
you must have the right 
quantity of Turkish tobacco 
—and that’s right.
But it is also true that you 
get a pleasing aroma from the 
home-grown tobaccos . . . 
tobaccos filled with Southern 
Sunshine, sweet and ripe.
When these tobaccos are
¦ ~all blended andcrpss-blended...
theChesterfieldway, balanced 
one against the other, you get 
a flavor andfragrance that's 
different from other cigarettes.
ì i9i},'lxaTT* Hyiklfii wTO C
