Vol. VII. No. 14 VI.=":z" 3=>pzpMp" rc C"ul=ror:h’ szpp>RM.:l’ s"==>hoeI=zI tI=MI.h 16, 1913.
= ...... " =:z3>p
Mr. McCulloch’s Report of the Meeting of 
the National Collegiate Association
Mr. McCulloch attended the meeting 
of the National Collegiate Association 
and upon his return submitted a very- 
interesting report of the meetings to 
Director Hamerschlag, a report of such 
general interest that The Tartan is very 
very pleased to have the opportunity to 
print it in full. The report is as follows: 
Director A. A. Hamerschlag,
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Dear Sir:-—
I beg to submit the following report of 
the meeting of the National Collegiate 
Association:
Dean La Baron Russel Briggs of Har­
vard was elected President to fill the vac­
ancy caused by the resignation of Major 
Palmer E. Pierce who is now stationed in 
China.
Dean Briggs in his opening remarks 
said that young men usually look to the 
place where they get their technique to 
also get their ethical ideas of the subject, 
and that the athletic field should be a 
laboratory for training young men in clean 
living.
Prof. William L. Dudley, of Vanderbilt 
University presented a paper on “The 
Proper Control of Athletics”, emphasizing 
the following:
Laws governing athletic conferences 
should be favored by the majority or they 
will not be enforced.
Reform should be a process of educa­
tion, and must include students, faculty, 
alumni and public.
There should be faculty control.
Coaches should be selected by the fac­
ulty, as their influence on the student 
body is perhaps greater than that of any 
other teacher.
Faculty representative on an athletic 
committee should be interested in the 
human factor.
No student or alumnus should be on the 
eligibility committee.
Scholarships and self help bureaus 
should be excluded from Intercollegiate 
sport.
There should be a fundamental amateur 
rule governing the sport.
Dr. Meylan, of Columbia presented a 
paper on “Athletic Training.” Depicting 
the early athletics of the Greeks, before 
there was any systematic training, and 
taking up the first account of training 
at the Olympic Games, when a candidate 
had to prove that he had trained for ten 
months, and had to stay at Helles for 
thirty days taking special training to 
accustom himself to the air, endurance 
and speed. Everything was done to make 
their bodies sound.
For fifteen centuries after the original
Olympics athletics were practically neg­
lected, and were revived by the English 
school boys who became familiar with 
them through their study of the classics, 
Cricket being the first sport introduced. 
About 1829 rowing and football were 
introduced, and in 1852 the first track 
meet was held. About the same time 
systematic training was again practiced, 
and varied according to the ideas of the 
individual, as little was known as to the 
best means of training.
In 1890 medical supervision of athletics 
was introduced, especially in colleges, and 
those found to be unfit were barred from 
competitive sports.
In 1905 there was a reaction from the 
training table and colleges in the Western 
Conference decided to abolish it and did 
so, many reporting no unfavorable results. 
Many other colleges have since abolished 
the training table.
Rational athletic training is recognized 
as being an invaluable part of a college 
education and the opportunity should be 
provided to a greater number of students.
The football rules committee reported 
that the rules gave universal satisfaction 
and there will be practically no changes 
for the ensuing year.
There were no football fatalities report­
ed among college men.
The basket ball rules committee report­
ed the effort being made to reduce the 
element of bodily contact in the game, 
eliminating the dribble and making more 
of a passing game of it. The difference 
in the two styles of game being illustrated 
by a comparison of scores in the East 
and West. In the East but 46 per cent, 
of the points scored were field goals, while 
in the West 86 per cent, of the points 
scored were field goals. These figures 
being taken from Intercollegiate contests 
in the Eastern and Western Conference in 
the Middle West.
At the evening session various athletic 
problems were discussed. One of the 
most important being athletic control.
In some of the colleges the control is 
entirely in the hands nf the faculty, others 
faculty and students, and still others fac­
ulty, students and alumni each having 
equal number on the committee. The 
most discussed question question being 
whether alumni should be represented 
at all. The consensus of opinion was 
that they should. In no case however 
do students or alumni vote on eligibility 
of students.
I also attended the Athletic Research 
Society meeting Saturday morning, the 
Public School Athletic meet for Elemen­
tary Schools Saturday afternoon, and the
AWARDING OF THE “C” 
Eighteen men receive recognition 
from the Athletic Association
Following the general lecture hour last 
Wednesday morning, a mass meeting was 
held in room 209 of the Science Building, 
which was attended by many of the men 
from the other schools. The object of the 
meeting was to award the insignia to the 
men who had played the required number 
of games on the football field last fall. 
The sweaters this year are maroon in 
color, with roll collars, and each has a 
large block “C” in plaid.
Coach Marks and Mr. McCulloch each 
gave a short talk concerning the work of 
the past year, praising the men for their 
faithfulness and spirit. As for success 
this is a quantity to be measured not as 
much by the number of games won as by 
the fact that the men on the team got 
more than mere football out of their efforts. 
They were brought into such contact 
with each other as could be accomplished 
in no other way than on the athletic field. 
Bonds of friendship were there established 
never to be broken. What a man has in 
him will show up on the football field 
as in no other place. Considered from 
every viewpoint, the past season has been 
one of unqualified success, and too much 
honor and gratitude cannot be paid to the 
men who sacrificed not only their time 
and personal convenience, but in some 
cases their work, that we may have such 
a team on the field this year.
During the presentation of the sweaters 
to the following men, Mr. McCulloch 
paid a short tribute to each as his name 
was called:
Peterson, McCoy, Engstrom, Fulmer, 
DeMuth, Hummel, Claire, Welsh, Atchi­
son, Patterson, J. Park. Heisel, Stonerod, 
Metheny, Ex-Captain Crawford, Lose, 
Rose, Manager Finkel and Coach Marks.
For the first time in our history the 
Athletic Association awarded insignia to 
the members of the scrub team, who 
night after night, came out to practice, 
in many cases to take a beating at the 
hands of the ’Varsity men. They were 
every bit as faithful as the ’Var­
sity men. The insignia awarded was
a skull cap with the initials “C. S.”, and 
can be worn with equally as much pride 
as the C. The following were the “scrubs” 
who received the insignia, but who had 
not playe d in enough games to receive 
the “C”:
Middleman, Walrath, Robinson, West­
wood, Newhouse, Laver, Trautman, Holz- 
worth, Randal, Kuchovitch, Culp, Hant- 
man, Merriman, Hall, Watson, Curtain 
and Hubler.
meeting of the Society of Directors of 
Physical Education in Colleges, held at 
Columbia University on Monday.
Respectfully submitted,
J. HOWARD McCULLOCH.
WHITE FRIARS PREPARE FOR 1913 
SEASON
Preliminary tryouts for the coming 
production of the Friars were held last 
Friday. A large number of candidates 
responded for the first call.
From present indications and the spirit 
shown by students of the schools things 
look promising for a very successful 
season for the coming show.
The play has been written and is quite 
different from the usual shows produced 
by the big college dramatic clubs of the 
country.
The production of 1913 will be a snap­
py musical comedy with a cast of 13 and 
a chorus of 16 couples, also a glee chorus 
of 12. This will be the fifth production 
of the Friars, and the management is 
making extensive arrangements to make 
it one of the big dramatic and social events 
of the coming year in Pittsburgh and 
surrounding towns, one in which the stu­
dents should be interested and proud of. 
To do this the Club needs the support of 
the students, not only in attendance at 
the performances in Pittsburgh, but if 
dramatically inclined to come out and 
try for a part in the production. The 
next tryouts will be held the week of 
January 20th. Definite dates will be 
posted on the bulletin boards of the schools 
later.
All students interested are requested to 
hand the;r names to Manager Jones at 
the Building Bureau or at the next re­
hearsal.
A big smoker will be held Friday, Jan­
uary 17th at the Hotel Schenley and 
everybody interested in the Friars are 
invited to come out. Eats, smokes and 
entertainment by older members of the 
Club will be the programme. Tickets 
for the smoker can be obtained from any 
member of the club in any of the three 
schools.
REMEMBER THE TRACK HOP
Tickets are now on sale for the big 
“Track Hop” in the Field House on Janu­
ary 24. Manager Engstrom is deter­
mined to make it one grand affair of the 
winter, and consequently is sparing no 
effort toward that end. The music will 
be one of the features of the evening, for 
vSignor Scalzo will furnish the orchestra. 
With this Tech favorite for a conductor, 
the feet will “keep a-goin’ till the band 
gets through.” Seniors and Juniors, who 
have been neglecting the terpsichorean 
art for their studies, will find an excellent 
opportunity for getting into shape for the 
Prom. Under classmen should attend in 
order to meet the lady friends of their 
school-fnates. There is a good reason 
for everyone, but the price, seventy-five 
cents, is the besl when a good time is 
guaranteed. Come out, one and all, young 
and old, and help along another cham­
pionship team for the spring.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
2
PITTSBURGH, PA., JAN. 16, 1913.
BOARD OF EDITORS. 
Donald D. Mitchell, ’13.Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14.. Business Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, ’09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, '13... .Science Editor
A. H. Good, ’14.............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, ’13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14...................
.........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, ’15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, ’14..............
...................Assistant News Editor
W. I. Wilson, ’16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, ‘15................................
........Assistant to the Business Editor
NOTICE
There will be posted this week on the 
bulletin boards of the four schools 
proof sheets of the student lists for 
the new catalogue. Each student is 
requested to examine these proofs 
carefully, and if an error or omission 
occurs in connection with his name 
to report it at once, in writing, to the 
Dean’s office. As the catalogue will 
go to press within a week it is urged 
that students hand in their correc­
tions at once.
A. W. TARBELL, Registrar.
For some time past there has been on 
exhibit in the windows of the merchants 
of Oakland a large loving cup, upon 
which are engraved these words:
“To the Students of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology from the Merchants 
of Oakland in appreciation of their Good 
Will, 1912.”
The Tartan hardly needs to say that 
the students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology are highly pleased with this 
¡expression of sentiment upon the part of 
the merchants of the Oakland district. 
That is not necessary. Thrown into 
such close contact, it is indeed a happy 
fact that there exists such a spirit of co­
operation and co-appreciation between 
the two bodies, and The Tartan firmly 
believes that time will only cement more 
strongly the ties which now bind the stu­
dent body of Carnegie Tech with the 
merchants of Oakland.
One evening last week a number of 
last year’s Thistle Board raised this ques­
tion: “Are they going to publish a This­
tle this year?” The “they” referred to is 
the Thistle Board. Of course, the only 
answer to be given was “we think they
are but we have not heard anything about 
it.” The first ‘semester is almost over— 
except for the hardest part, the exams-*- 
and we have yet to hear any definite 
news as to the progress of The Thistle. 
Coming after the enviable record of last 
year’? Board, it would seem that this 
year’s Thistle Board had slowed down. 
We trust that such is not the case and 
that we will shortly hear that The Thistle 
is ready for press.
We take pleasure in printing the fol­
lowing letter from A. E. Wood, Jr., Sec­
retary of the Athletic Association:
The Athletic Association wishes to 
acknowledge with thanks the cancellation 
of notes by the following men since the 
first of April of last year: E. P. Poste,
H. W. McKee, Jr., G. C. Bauer, H. E. 
Dosey and H. F. Englebrecht.
While the Association does not urge 
holders of student notes to cancel them 
because of their being receipts of an hon­
est debt, which is now being paid, a great 
deal of. gratitude is felt towards those 
who still have enough Carnegie spirit to 
donate the amount which they once loan­
ed to the Association as a foundation to 
what will some day be the most powerful 
college athletic association in this country.
The above named are good Carnegie 
Tech men—and good men are scarce.
THISTLE
The men on the Thistle Board have 
been working hard for the past month, 
and from present indications this year’s 
book is going to be larger and better in 
every way than any of its predecessors. 
At a meeting held last night bids were 
received from various printers, and the 
contract will probably be awarded within 
a couple of weeks. The work of printing 
The Thistle will then be commenced, 
and it is important that as many “grinds”, 
articles, etc., as possible be received before 
that time. Up to date the Board has not 
received much co-operation from the stu­
dents in this respect, and it it is hoped 
that the latter will feel their responsibility 
and lend their best assistance to the mem­
bers of the Board.
The Board is also handicapped with 
regard to the necessary funds for printing 
and expenses. Only a few subscriptions 
have been received up to the present time, 
yet money will be absolutely necessary 
when the actual work of printing is 
commenced. So “loosen up”, and you 
may be sure it will be appreciated by 
the Board.
STATE HERE SATURDAY
On account of the cancellation of the 
Juniata game, the first basket ball con­
test will be staged on Saturday night, 
January 18, and Penn State will be the 
visiting team. This means a lively ses­
sion for our passers, according to reports 
from Center County. State bunch has 
the advantage of several games clayed 
and won, while our five have not been 
under fire as yet. This advantage, how­
ever, is a slight one, and the defenders of 
the Plaid are confident of overcoming it 
by superior skill and speed. Whichever 
way it is decided, it is bound to be the 
best home game of the season, and a 
large crowd should be out to cheer on the 
faithful. Student tickets will admit to
the gallery, while an extra charge of ten 
cents will allow a seat on the floor. After 
the game the floor will be cleared for a 
dance, the school orchestra furnishing the 
music. This means a good representa­
tion of the fair sex will grace the occasion. 
Come out aind bring her along. The 
team needs you.
WEDNESDAY MORNING LECTURE
Last Wednesday morning at the general 
lecture hour, Prof. Mott, of the Civil 
Department gave a most interesting talk 
on the Panama Canal, telling of the most 
recent developments in the construction, 
together with a brief outline of the early 
history of the canal. He illustrated his 
talk by a series of lantern slides showing 
the work on the canal, not the least in­
teresting of which were a number taken 
by Mr. Orbin on his recent trip to the 
Canal Zone during the Christmas holidays 
just past.
Dean Leete made the announcement 
that next Wednesday morning, Mr. John 
C. White, an eminent and interesting lec­
turer of New York, who will be in the 
city at that time, will be the speaker.
INDUSTRY NOTES
The new engine for the new Power 
Plant has arrived, but will probably not be 
installed for a few weeks yet. The engine 
is one produced by the Mesta Machine 
Company, of the Stumf type, and is the 
first one in America used for commercial 
purposes. A more detailed account of 
the machinery and the new Power Plant 
will probably appear in a later issue of 
The Tartan.
Both the Forge and the Machine Shop 
are greatly hampered in their work by the 
gas furnaces being out of commission. 
It is hoped that before long these furnaces 
will be put in the proper shape and these 
shops will be able to run to their full 
capacity.
AT LAST
Last Friday evening saw the taking 
of the first steps toward a society for 
public speaking and arch research. The 
plans as yet are not completed further 
than the election of officers for the ensuing 
year. The officers are:
President..............................Bernard Spiegel
Vice President.............Carl C. Manchester
Secretary..................................Louis A. Weld
Treasurer..............................Harry J. O’Brien
Sergeant at Arms...:.............H. E. Heilman
The society has been assured the sup­
port and co-operation of the faculty and 
bids fair to be a prosperous organization. 
The plans will be made public after the 
next meeting.
Why the sporty ties and many colored 
socks among the Plebes? My, what a 
reaction!
Farewell, Ashby, old boy. With tears 
in our eyes we see you start on the down­
ward path.
We notice the effects of the Clipper 
Club are wearing off (or rather in).
Welcome new arrivals to the Design 
School. You finally found us. Fall into 
the Design spirit. Be one of us.
DIRECTORY.
ATHLETICS.
Football—E. L. Clair, Capt.
F. H. Haaren, Mgr.
5437 Avlesboro Ave. •
Baseball— J. R. Gearhart, Capt.,
E. H. Grotefend, Mgr.,
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball—
R. W. P. Colvin, Capt.
W. J. Corbett, Mgr.,
5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Track— C. M. Crawford, Capt., . 
Thor Engstrom, Mgr.,
237 N. Dithridge St 
Tennis Association—
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Mgr.
5141 Woodlawn Ave. 
SENIOR CLASSES.“ 
Science— C. M. Crawford,
Industries—A. E. Hamilton,
Design— j. B. HayS) jr.
M. M. C. S.—
Tri Senior, Margaret Eggleston, 
Senior, Laura Green, 
SOCIETIES.
Musical Clubs—
R. M. Crawford, Pres.
L. E. Griswold, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
White Friars—H. C. Franks, Pres. 
Walter Jones, Jr., Mgr.,
309 Oakland Ave.
Seannachie—F. S. Crawford, Pres., 
Carnegie Band- Clete L. Boyle, Mgr..
9 Mawhinney Street.
T. A. C.—M. G. Kingsley, Pres.,
T. M. C.—Guy Elliott, Mgr.
T. D. C.— Eleanor Tener, Pres.
Civil Engineering Society—
____________O. N. Hetle, Pres.____________
Fulcrum Club—
Thos. O. Carlisle, Pres.
Mho Club—R. W. Freeland, Pres. 
Crucible Club—H. G. Texter, Pres.. 
Mechanical Club—J. E. Haines, Pres 
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Beta Theta Epsilon—
5437 Ayle boro Ave. 
Schenley 2508.
Sigma Rho—4619 Forbes St.
Schenley 9271-J.
Sigma Tau— 5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9373-J.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
237 Dithridge St.,
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
______________Schenley 9020_____________
Xi Sigma Upsilon—
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253. •
Zeta Lambda Epsilon—
4513 Forbes St.
___9052-J Schenley- _______
Alumni Ass’n. of Applied Science and 
Design—
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Student Senates—
Design—A. H. Good, Pres. 
Industries—Guy Elliott, Pres.
Athletic Board of Control—
Wm. L. Moorehead, Pres.
Dan Kornblum, Secy.
514 Neville St.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
FULCRUM CLUB MEETS
Elects Officers
Last Thursday evening the Fulcrum 
Club had its monthly meeting in its club 
room. It being the last meeting of the 
semester the officers for the balance of 
the year were elected as follows: Presi­
dent, Donald D. Mitchell; Vice President, 
John J. Murphy; Secretary, Howard N. 
Anerswald; Treasurer, Frederic E. Schuch- 
man; Executive Committee, Lewis Mid­
dleman, G. Guy Kelcey and Francis M. 
Pringle (appointed).
After the business meeting was over 
several members of the Glee Club en­
tertained very pleasantly the future 
Commercial Engineers.
A. A. U. WARNING
Attention of the students of Carnegie 
Tech is directed to the appended letter 
from A. A. U. Commissioner John T. 
Taylor to Supervisor McCulloch, which 
follows:
Mr. J. H. McCulloch,
Supervisor of Athletics,
Carnegie Tech School,
City.
Dear Mr. McCulloch:—
I am going to ask you to make an effort 
towards keeping basket ball on a strict 
amateur basis. At the present time the 
so called amateur teams do not seem to 
live up to any rules whatever. They 
play whom they like and I believe they 
accept money for their share of it.
I wish you would talk to the boys and 
give them one warning that we are going 
to make a great effort towards getting 
these semi-professionals who play basket 
ball declared professionals.
Trusting you will assist us in this mat­
ter, I am,
Very respectfully,
JOHN T. TAYLOR.
It is a matter of common knowledge 
that a large number of the students play 
with teams of what they call amateur 
standing. No objection will be made 
against such playing if the two conditions 
are guarded against. Under the rules of 
the Amateur Athletic Union the division 
line between an amateur and a professional 
is sharply defined. Any man accepting 
money for playing, or any one taking 
part in a contest either with or against 
a professional becomes a professional. 
The A. A. U. officials are making a cam­
paign against “semi-professional” players 
who expect to retain amateur standing. 
We are grateful to Commissioner Taylor 
for his warning, and pass it on' to the 
students with a caution to make sure that 
the conditions under which they play are 
strictly amateur, in order that they may 
represent the schools at some time in 
athletic contests.
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC COM­
MENCES CAREER
it was possible to secure have been en­
gaged, making a faculty of twelve good 
and experienced musicians. Great credit 
is to be given the Director and Dean Hew­
lett for inaugurating this course, which 
will prove of inestimable value to all those 
who have the time and inclination to de­
vote to it, and which will in time make 
still another department of our school 
that will be hard to surpass anywhere in 
the country.
ALUMNI NOTES
Mr. Haakon Styri, ’11, has been ap­
pointed lecturer on the Metallurgy of 
Iron in the Technical School at Dront- 
heim, Norway. Since he graduated from 
Tech in 1911, Mr. Styri has takenhis doc­
tor’s degree from the University of 
Aachen.
The Senior Commercials were taken 
through the plant of the Heppenstall 
Forge & Knife Company by Mr. William
H. Rieger, '08 Metallurgical. The group 
were taken all over the plant and had a 
very pleasant as well as a very instructive 
visit. '
It is reported that Fred E. Foster, ’08 
Metallurgical, has left Mexico, where he 
was with the Ferrocarril Sud-Pacifico de 
Mexico, and gone over into Arizona. We 
wonder if the revolutions caused Ex-editor 
Foster to change his place of residence. 
If such is the case, he has sadly changed 
since his undergraduate days. Mr. Foster 
was one of the founders and first editor 
of The Tartan.
DESIGN PLEBE BANQUET
One of the must successful banquets 
ever held, was the one held by the Design 
Plebes on the 16th of December. . The 
Plebes and their guests assembled at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel and at 8 o’clock sat down 
to one of the most sumptuous feeds ever 
given at that popular place. The follow­
ing Menu was served:
Blue Point Cocktail 
Assorted Relishes Almonds
Cream of Chicken 
Tenderloin Steak Bearnaise 
Fresh Mushrooms 
Potatoes Au Gratin French Peas
Waldorf Salad 
Frozen Fruit Pudding Assorted Cakes 
Cheese Coffee
Cigars Cigarettes
After the repast, the guests Mr. Horn- 
bostel, Dean Hewlett and Prof. McGood- 
win gave some very interesting toasts. 
Geo. Freye of the Illustrating Department 
gave a toast on the work in that depart­
ment. Spiegel, Weld and Manchester 
also responded. President Stewart very 
ably filled the position of toast-master. 
After the banquet Mr. Hornbostel showed 
that he was the king of good fellows and 
architects.
Yesterday, the course in music was 
begun in the Design School, with register­
ed enrollment of 68 pupils, 47 night stu­
dents and 21 day. Things look extremely 
bright for this new departure in the line 
of technical education as given by the 
various schools of the country, and there 
is scarcely a doubt that the Department 
of Music will prove a great success. In­
struction will be given in theory, voice, 
piano and violin. The very best teachers
EASTER RECESS
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man With Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown AvenueEast End
YOU’RE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January Reduction 
Sale
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar.P. &. A. Phone 952-A
H. A. BECKER,
¦ MUSIC HOUSE 
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC 
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
^Corner*of * M iddfe * N. S., Pittsburgh,Pa.
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
Stop at
STAUFT’S
News—Stationer—T obacco 
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa
The Tango
McDotigall Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn 
Wood and 5th 
4616 Forbes Street
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburgh’s Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Manhattan Shirts 
Winter Underwear 
Sweater Coats 
Fancy Vests 
Bath and Lounging Robes 
Knitted and Cut Silk Scarfs
Auihammer & Evans
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Monday and Saturday EveningsPhone 1071 Hiland
O. C. HENRY
339 Fifth Ave.
P HOT OGRAPHS
We make a specialty of school groups, class 
and fraternity pictures. Prices the lowest and 
work the best. — Telephone Grant 3581.
PlERPONT, SiVITER & CO.
ENGRAVING PRINTING
EMBOSSING
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H. Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge °f our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support' 
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
City Office;
631 Penn Avenue
East End Office;
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Owing to the interference of a Class A 
Beaux Arts problem, the Easter Recess 
for the School of Applied Design has 
been changed from the date given by the 
catalogue from April 4th at 5 P. M., to 
April 14th at 9 A. M.
The Easter Recess for the other schools 
be from March 14th at 5 P. M., to March 
24th at 9 A. M.
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138
Main Office and Works: Cor* Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
TOPICS OF THE DAY
Readings in Current Magazines re­
commended for the next week.
Currents Events and Political
The World's Work, January. See under 
cap, “The March of Events” p. 246, edi­
torials entitled “A Little Look Backward , 
“For a Reawakened Conservation”, 
“The Insidious Bounty Idea”, p. 249, and 
“Turn Streams of Money on the Land” 
p. 250.
Current Literature, now called Current 
Opinion—January. See especially under 
cap, “A Review of the World”, the follow­
ing: “The Tariff Agony Begins” p. 4. 
“Appalling Revelations of Child Labor in 
New York State” p. 5. “American Honor 
and the Panama Canal” p. 7. “The War 
in the Balkans” p. 10, and the “Fall of the 
Ministry in Japan.” See also, under cap, 
“Persons in the Foreground”, p. 20. 
“William H. Taft in Defeat”, “The Social 
Significance of Arthur Giovannitti; General 
Savoff.”
See Illustierte Zeitung, for “The Balkan 
War” December 12, 1012, p. 1198. Good 
illustrations; “Ueber Land und Meer” 
No. 10, p. 272-273. Illustrations; and 
Ibid, No. 11, p. 309, illustrations.
The Nation, December 19, 1912, p. 577, 
“The Coal Roads Decision of the Su­
preme Court.” Shows how the seeming 
victory of the interests is a virtual defeat.
Ibid, p. 578, “Gov. Blease and Lynch 
Law.” The vigorous protests of the 
Southern press prove that the South, as a 
whole, wants to stand for law and order.
Ibid, p. 579, “The Development of 
Socialism in France.”
Ibid, p. 579, “Germany’s Successful 
War on Tuberculosis.” Reducing num­
ber of deaths due to consumption, from 
23 per 50,000 to 18.4 per 50,000, in 15 years.
Ibid, December 26, p. 602, “The Atti­
tude of the South toward the Negro.” 
Since the negro laborer is indispensable 
to the South, better treatment for him 
will come in time.
For interesting articles on the Panama 
Canal tolls, the reader should see the 
January Atlantic Monthly, “What shall 
we say?”, by David Starr Jordan. Presi­
dent Jordan discusses the question briefly 
from the point of view of an advocate of 
World Peace, “If our nation has agreed 
to treat all ships alike,” he says, “let us 
stand by that agreement. . . Since when 
have (vessels flying the stars and stripes) 
become our ships? Have the New York 
and London capitalists who own them ever 
turned them over to us.”
The Independent, for January 2, suggests 
that there is yet time enough to enable 
Congress to rescind its action in this 
matter which has produced unfriendly 
relations with England.
In The Independent, same date, see also 
“A Revolutionary Labor Decision”, p. 71; 
“Making our Currency a Smaller Size”, p. 
72; “Fortunes that have Literally gone 
up in Smoke”, p. 72.
Economics
“The Industrial Commission Appoint­
ments,” p. 2, The Independent, January 2.
“When Arbitration will not work.”— 
Ibid, p. 5.
“The New Haven Railroad Suit”—Ibid, 
p. 6.
“An Unshrinkable Dollar”-—Ibid, p. 23. 
By Prof. Irving Fisher of Yale. A pro­
posal for a monetary unit which would 
correct the prevailing tendency toward 
high prices.
“Taxing the Cost of Living”—World’s 
Work, January, p. 302. How the govern­
ments of all civilized nations, by spend­
thrift expenditures, are saddling the world 
with interest-bearing debt and thereby are 
depreciating the value of money. The 
relation of Armies and Navies to these 
debts.
“The World Race for the Rich South 
American Trade”—Ibid, p. 314. Shows 
how the United States is handicapped for 
competition with other nations for com­
mercial supremacy.
“State Insurance in Wisconsin”—Ameri­
can Review of Reviews, January, p. 78. 
An attempt on the part of the people to 
secure for themselves the best insurance 
at a reduced cost by making use of the 
state offices already in existence.
Science
“La NatureNo. 2061, November 23,
1912, contains an article by R. Bonnin 
on the compressed air locomotives used 
in the construction of the Mont d’Or tun­
nel. The compressed air is started under 
a pressure of 135 Kg. There are two types 
of locomotives used. The larger type is 
2m. 55 high, with a maximum width of 
lm. 95 and a total length of 8 m. 60. It 
weigh 30 tons and draws a load of 180 
tons on a grade of 13mm. The maxi­
mum traction effort is 4800 Kg.
In the Scientific American, December
28, 1912, there is an interesting article on: 
“The Military Supremacy of the Air.,” 
“The Aeronautic Plans of the Great Pow­
ers” by Theodore M. R. von Keler. The 
article discusses the relative strength of 
the different powers. Germany seems 
to be in the lead in regard to the number, 
size and speed of the “aerial cruiser” 
type. The Germans also hold the en­
durance and distance records. According 
to the writer the German parliament has 
voted an appropriation of #30,000,000 for 
“extraordinary expenses” with a “rider” 
of #50,000 for the development of military 
aeroplanes. France has granted 33,231,- 
350 francs for,its aerial programme.
“The Assuan Dam”—The World's Work, 
January, p. 332. A structure that adds 
millions of acres to the arable land of 
Egypt.
“The Great Mississippi Dam—Ibid, p. 
337. Makes possible the development of 
200,000 electrical horse-power.
“Conflict”—The Independent, January, 
2, p. 37. A discovery of the essence of 
Insanity.
“Why the Chemical Purity of the Air 
we Breathe is of no Importance”—Ibid, 
p. 44.
“A Medical Vindication of the Modem 
Banquet”—Ibid, p. 45.
Export Woche, No. 49, December, 1912, 
contains a good article entitled: “Flug- 
zenge in den Kolonien” by von Hampt- 
man a D. Dr. Hildebrandt. The writer 
calls attention to the fact that the aero­
plane is of little value in Europe as a 
means of transportation, but that in the 
colonies where there are but few railroads 
and where the roads are bad the aeroplane 
is almost indispensable as it can travel 
quickly over any kind of country. In 
sections where there are no railroads it 
sometimes takes a whole month for the 
mail to reach inland ponts. With an 
aeroplane this could be accomplished in 
a day or two. During the rainy season,
large stretches of country of the (<erman 
East-African colonies are mostly flooded 
twice a year, and in some parts three 
times a year; here the aeroplane would 
be of immense service. This of course 
calls for the construction of machines 
which will be able to alight upon and rise 
from both land and water, and the Ger­
man navy seems to have taken the init­
iative in this direction. It appears that 
for a route of 1450 kilometers a complete 
station can be equipped for 241,600 marks.
Export Woche, No. 50, December,^ 1912, 
contains an article setting forth the ad­
vantages of automatic machines. The 
endeavors of the post office departments 
of every country, to simplify the service 
at the various windows has led the Deut­
sche Post und Eisenbahn Ver- Kehrswcsen 
Akt. Ges of Staaken, near Berlin to con­
struct automatic machines for selling 
stamps as well as for registering letters: 
the letter machine delivers a receipt for 
the registered letter. These machines 
are so constructed that they cannot be 
operated by counterfeit coins. If counter­
feit money is used it finds its way in a spec­
ial compartment and is thus thus removed 
from circulation.
“Propellors for Aeroplanes”—Cassier's 
Magazine, November, p. 401. Resume 
of the experiments made at the labora­
tory of the Champs de Mars.
“Railways of South America”—Ibid, 
p. 409 Normal guage railways of Ar­
gentina and Paraguay.
“The Utilization of Peat Fuel”—Ibid, 
p. 417.
“Welding by Machinery”—Ibid, p. 426.
Educational
“Syndicalism and its Philosphy”—At­
lantic Monthly for January. M. Ernest 
Dimuet, Professor of English Literature, 
College Stanislas, Paris, in a significant 
article traces the course of Syndicalism, 
which is French trades-unionism, during 
the various phases of nineteenth century 
France, through its divergence from Soc­
ialism and Politics, to its rise in a general 
organization of unions known as “C. G. 
T.” (Confederation Generale du Travail), 
with newspapers, magazines, and serious 
thinkers at its back. Clear accounts of 
MM. Pelloutier and Sorel, whose ideas 
are now attracting so much attention in 
England and America. Summary of the 
aims of the C. G. T., and its methods; 
e. g., Sabotage, boycott by the increase of 
co-operative institutions, preparations for 
the Great Evening and the Great Strike. 
Account of the confederation’s power as 
evidenced in the Postal Strike of 1908, 
during which it treated with the Govern­
ment on equal terms, and in the recall of 
M. Delcasse during the Moroccan troubles 
of 1905-6.
“Syndicalists feel...........that the co­
operative movement will suffice to re­
verse the present economic conditions, 
and bring about the gradual and almost 
invisible disappearance of capitalism.
..................The Great Strike must be
prepared for by local strikes weakening 
capital and strengthening the proletariat. 
The C. G. T. is a school for striking.”
The article concludes with a purely 
speculative discussion of the future of 
Syndicalism, considering a reawakened 
national consciousness in France, and 
the broadened ideals of Syndicalist leaders. 
What Professor Dimuet says will interest 
those following foreign political events, 
the labor movement, new systems of phil-
The popular “ Belmont ” notch Collar 
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25c
AR-R.OWC OLLAR.S
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
THE BOSTON
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques’ Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
DANCING
New School of Dancing
Duquesne Garden, Main Entrance 
Second Floor, Mon., Wed., Sat.
Bell Schenley, 626. Residence, 2646-R
s.rcf I=i n.>f R. gf Nraf
MacDONALD’S
i ¦ . . ;;.......... '
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street,Pittsburgh, Pa.
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
osphic thought, or the modern tendency 
to association.
“The Dangers of War in Europe”— 
Ibid. An essay by the Italian historian 
of “The Greatness and Decline of Rome.” 
“The approaching crisis”, says Signor 
Ferrero, “is all the more serious because 
thinking men are giving up politics for 
business. This neglect of public duties 
by the class which once bore the entire 
responsibility is one of the most regrettable 
results of industrial development and uni­
versal wealth.”
“Exploring Other Worlds”-----World's
Work, January, p. 286. Discoveries a- 
mong the stars.
“A Modern German Apartment House”
— Ueber Land und Meer, No. 11, p. 316. 
How German architects are trying to 
put character and beauty into the tene­
ment house.
“Scotland’s Success in the Educational 
Field”—American Review of Reviews, Jan­
uary.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
True Values V o l True Values
young men’s clothing
Young men’s $25.00, $30.00, and $32.50 suits—fancy mixtures, light and dark 
colors—blue and black unfinished worsted—sizes 32 to 48, $18.50.
Double breasted Ulster Overcoats, $13.50.
50c decewear, 25c.
Cut silk and knitted ties in variety of excellent patterns—50c ties, 25c.
Boggs & Buhl,
Pittsburgh t Penn'a.
GREGORIO SGÄLZO
-----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandolin Club-----
Music for all occasions. Exceptional Dance Orchestras at
reasonable price.
Address—-Atwood & Cable Telephone—Schenley 1638-R
GEO. L. KOPP & CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material 
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS 
Blue Print Papers and Blue Printing.
We repair Drawing InstrumentsHYDROMETERS THERMOMETERS ANEROID BAROMETERS 
704 Smithfield Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
“Just Right” Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
“Just Right” Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemen’s profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
»¦¦¦ ............ .................'............ ?
I
 BUREAU OF RECOMMEN- j 
DATIONS.
----------- —-------_—
Full Time Employment
Civil Engineers; for railroad work in 
Columbus, Ohio. $60 to $65 per month.
Clerk in Order Department of machine 
company. $40 to $45 per month.
Foundry Clerk for manufacturing con­
cern near Pittsburgh.' Man with some 
foundry experience preferred. $60 per 
month.
Designer of templates and jigs for 
machine company. Machine Shop and 
Drafting experience absolutely essential. 
Approximately $75 per month.
Topographical Drafting; for gas and 
oil company near Pittsburgh. Temporary 
work, lasting six or eight months. 38 
cents per hour.
Topographical Drafting; for land com­
pany near Pittsburgh. $60 to $70 per 
month.
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES
A meeting of the Tech Architectural 
Club will be held in the Applied Design 
Building, Tuesday, January 14th, when 
membership and business matters will be
discussed. -----o-----
Only five mentions were given the last 
lot of Class “A” projets sent in for 
judgment by the Beaux Arts Society from 
this school. The subject of the problem 
was “A Public Bath”, and while the 
general run of drawings submitted was 
hardly above the average, only five men­
tions in a dozen or more is far from a 
good, or even a fair showing.
The new system of intermediate Class 
“A” problems recently inaugurated in the 
course in Architecture to bridge the gap 
in relative size that is constantly widen­
ing between the Class “A” and Class “B” 
Beaux Arts problems will limit for some 
time to come the men taking Class “A” 
projets. However the future Class “A” 
man will enter this class with a more thor­
ough knowledge of elementary planning 
and better prepared to win in New York 
for his school, honors, now noticeably
lacking. -----o-----
This is Class “B” charette week. If 
the scale of the plan is changed only a 
limited number of times during the week, 
there is some chance of a small number 
of us finishing. We still have hope in 
the problem and faith in ourselves and 
niggers, limited.---------o---------
MHO CLUB
The January meeting of the club was 
held Wednesday evening, the 8th, in Room 
121. The paper for the evening on “Water 
Power Development of the Mississippi 
River Power Company at Keokuk, Iowa,” 
was read by Mr. Gambart. This was 
very good, and to bring out some of the 
facts, pictures were thrown on the screen.
The discussions were also very good, 
Mr. Sontune taking the construction of 
the dam and power house, Mr. Johnston 
the generating units, and Mr. Stuckman 
the transmission and distribution.
After this, Mr. Dennison gave a short 
talk on hydro-electric plants in general.
Something more good in store, so be 
on hand for the next meetiiig.
MUSICAL CLUBS AT UNIVERSITY 
CLUB
. The “Musical Clubs” were the guests of 
the University Club last Saturday night. 
And this night will probably be remem­
bered by all those present, forty-five in 
number. The evening was started by 
giving a concert which deserved worthy 
mention and was enjoyed by the Uni­
versity Club members in general as it 
was “Boston Tech” night at the Club. Of 
course Tech men excelled in number, not 
failing to give their younger brothers a 
hearty reception after each number. Af­
ter the concert the Musical Clubs men 
indulged m cards and other games, after 
which they were ushered to the banquet 
hall to a turkey dinner. While waiting, it 
was suggested, by one member to have 
each man rise giving his home town’s 
name. This might be stated was very in­
teresting: starting at Oakland a journey 
was taken through the Keystone state to 
New York state, back to Ohio, through 
Iowa to Mexico, then to California, Italy, 
Germany and Switzerland were also men­
tioned. After dinner speeches were made 
by different officers and directors. Reso­
lutions of regrets were sent to Messrs. 
Griswold and Madison who were too ill 
to attend after which “Alma Mater” was 
sung and an adjournment made. .
WORKING ON STUDENT HAND 
BOOK
All the copy for the Student Hand 
Book is in, excepting that material which 
is to come from the new catalogue, and 
is being gathered together preparatory 
to publishing. Those in charge expect 
that the book will be ready to distribute 
to the students in the early spring, a re­
print of the book being made in the fall 
for distribution to the entering classes.
BASKET BALL
Results to date in the Basket Ball 
tournament show more than half of the 
teams tied for first place, all displaying 
championship ability. The following are 
the scores to January tenth.
December 10th-
Beta Theta....2Sig Rho............... 0
Theta Xi. ....17Xi Sig................... 5
Mech Club ...3Sig Tau................20
December 12th-
Mid. Mach ...8Zeta Lam.............11
Sig Rho.........1 ?Xi Sig...................15
December 13th-
Sig Tau.........8Beta Theta.......... 2
Theta Xi......35Fulerum C........... 4
Mech Club ...5T. A. C................. 3
December 16th-
Mho Club.....0Mid Mach........... 5
Zeta Lam.....25T. A. C................. 4
Sig Rho.........2Theta Xi............. 0
December 17 th-
Mech Club ...12Mho Club............ 6
T. A. C..........13C. E. Soc.............20
January 7th—
Sig Rho.........2C. E. Soc............. 0
Sig Tau.........9Zeta Lam............18
Xi Sig............2Mho Club........... 0
January 9th—
Beta Theta...?Fulerum C......... 0
Theta Xi........ 7T. A. C................ 3
Mech Club. ..5Mid Mach............ 5
January 10th—
Sig Rho........12Zeta Lam............. 9
Sig Tau........9C. E. Soc.............. 6
Xi Sig..........2Fulerum C......... 0
THE JUNIOR CIVIL FLOOD 
COMMISSION
Under the supervision of Prof. H. R. 
Thayer, C. E., the Junior Civils made an 
extensive tour and reconnoisance of the 
flooded district of Pittsburgh during the 
high water of Friday, January" 9, 1913. 
The party made a detour of the “Point” 
from the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge 
over the Monongahela River to the Rail­
road bridge over the Allegheny River.
Many expostulations of argumentative 
character on the subject of Suspension 
and Cantilever bridges were exploded dur­
ing the tramp down Water Street. The 
passersby stopped and gazed at the fleet- 
footed tribe from Carnegie. While cross­
ing the railroad tracks at the point Scotty 
fell into the river. Being an M. D. he 
soon dictated the rules of First Aid and 
was soon resusticated with a loss of noth­
ing but some dignity. At the time of 
this write-up he is wearing a barrel while 
his clothes are being pressed.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company’s 
elevated was next followed from the Ex­
position Building up along the Allegheny 
River to the Union Station. Our “Slim 
Princess” Fat Wood, had much trouble 
passing between the box cars and girders 
over streets, and came out squashed, but 
all there minus a few coat buttons.
SENIOR CLASS DINNER
At a meeting of the Senior Class last 
Wednesday after the mass meeting, an­
nouncement was made that Thursday the 
16th of January, had been set as the date 
for the proposed Senior Dinner and that 
the place is to be the Hotel Schenley.
The gathering is to be entirely informal 
and the members of the night graduating 
class have been invited. Only a nominal 
sum is to be charged for the tickets, so 
if you are a Senior Science man, be there 
Thursday evening.
TRACK TO BE LAID SATURDAY
In spite of the rain last Saturday morn­
ing, a good number of the real men of the 
under classes reported for duty to Track 
Manager Engstrom to aid in laying the 
out-door board track. After trying to 
work in the dampness, the boys were 
called inside by Dr. Marks, and the obse­
quies postponed until next Saturday morn­
ing. While thanking the men that did 
report, the manager asked them and as 
many more to come out this week and 
complete the work. It depends very 
much upon the early laying of the track 
whether or not a team will be entered in 
the Y. M. C. A. meet on January 31. 
This event, which wiH. be held in Exposi­
tion Hall, is the only track meet sched­
uled for the winter, and our athletes are 
anxious to be given a chance to compete. 
Captain Crawford will issue a call as 
soon as the track is down, and upon the 
response to this call depends the question 
as to the representation of the Plaid in 
the indoor carnival.-----------o-----------
The old system of usiag a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presffs the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers­
piration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
I Theaters Week of Jan. 20. j
............!.§.
ALVIN—A Gilbert and Sullivan Opera 
Festival in which “The Mikado”, “Pirates 
of Penzance”, “Patience” and “Pinafore” 
will be sung by a fine company headed by 
DeWolf Hopper. Better hear them.
NIXON—Rose Stahl in a comedy call­
ed “Maggie Pepper.” Miss Stahl is fine.
DUQUESNE—“Are You A Mason,” an 
old farce will be revived by the Stock 
Company.
GRAND—Jessie Busley, an admirable 
actress in a little play will head the vaude­
ville bill.
LYCEUM—A company of Colored 
Comedians will appear at this house.
ORCHESTRA
All men interested in the organization 
of a C. I. T. orchestra are urged to be 
present at a meeting to be held in the club 
room of the Applied Industries building 
at 5:00 Friday evening January 17, for 
the purpose of discussing the advisibility 
of starting such an organization. There 
is at present plenty of talent in the schools 
to make this organization a successful 
one, and every man who can play an 
orchestral instrument is urged to attend 
this meeting and express his views on the 
subject. The following instruments will 
be needed: violins, viola, ’cello, bass viol, 
comets, piccolo, flute, clarinets, trombone, 
"piano, French horn or mellowphone, bas­
soon, and drums. Men playing these 
instruments are wanted. If YOU are in­
terested—no matter whether or not you 
play an instrument—come to the meeting 
and show your spirit.
THE CHRISTMAS PLAY
. On Thursday evening, December 19th, 
the Dramatic Club presented “The Christ­
mas Carol.” The play was a splendid 
success, and diffused a warm Christmas 
glow throughout both “company” and 
audience.
The parts were all well carried, but 
that of Scrouge, taken by Irene Pond, was 
excellent. As is often the case, some of the 
best and hardest work was off the stage. 
Anne Bromley was a competent stage 
manager; Margaret Webb, dramatic club 
president, performed her arduous duties 
faithfully and well.
The play was under the direction of 
M\ Geegan; Mrs. Vermorken was in­
valuable; Miss Stoner and Miss Ernst 
gave willing assistance. And the Glee 
Club took part in the musical numbers. 
With such work and such able workers 
it is not strange the play was voted the 
most successful that has been given at 
the school.
It is the intention of the club to give 
other plays, or at least, another play dur­
ing the year. There is no reason for 
limiting the efforts of the club to one play 
at Christmas time and everyone would 
lcok forward with delight and great ex­
pectation to a second event.
BUTTER, EGGS,
COFFEE, TEAS,
POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the “eatin’s” for your “doin’s’
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Mens Furnishers
3723 Torbes St. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
—Nearest Tech—
approbation), of the engagement an­
nouncements of Verne Nixon, ’09; Lily 
Crosby and Helen Baglin, ’11; Frances 
Kempel, ’10.
M. M. C. S. NEWS
ALUMNAE NEWS
Engagements notices always crcate a 
flutter of interest; we have read (with
During our first recitation in history 
Miss Demarest told us about the trip she 
took to Boston and Radcliffe College 
during the Christmas vacation.
Immediately everyone of us began to 
sit up and take notice, because when 
Miss Demarest begins to talk she makes 
it so interesting that it would be impossible 
to try to do anything else.
She said one going from New York to 
Boston would be continually overstepping 
the rules and forms of society by doing 
something that would have been perfectly 
correct in New York, but would bring a 
look of horror to the Bostonian face.
The Boston people are very cautious in 
business,never venturing into any schemes 
or business propositions until a thorough 
investigation has been made.
Miss Demarest also said that if any 
of us visited Boston not to fail to go to 
see Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges. 
When you go on a sight seeing trip through 
the country and are taken to Radcliffe, 
th? first thing you will hear the guide 
call is “Radcliffe College no connection 
with Harvard.” This is not the truth be­
cause the president of Radcliffe is the 
Dean of Harvard, and they are connected 
in this way.
Miss Demarest has- a great interest in 
Radcliffe because it is her “Alma Mater.”
She told us of the treatment of the 
undergraduates of Radcliffe. They are 
not allowed to associate with the boys 
at all. They study in the Harvard Li­
brary, and when they go in they go to 
the catalogue and select the books they 
want for their references, then they go 
upstairs and enter a certain door, and go 
behind a long table and ring a bell. Pres­
ently a small boy enters with a great 
bunch of keys dangling from his belt. 
He takes their slip of paper and brings 
their books to them. They then do their 
studying and when they are through they 
ring the bell again. The boy appears 
and opens the door and they are allowed 
to go on their way.
When a student has graduated they 
then have free access to any part of the 
library.
At this point in the talk we were in­
terrupted by the ringing of the second be!1.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
“GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00”
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Men’s Boots. This is strictly a young 
man’s boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
fBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man­
ufacturer.
Step in Our Men’s Department
Bell phone 3465 Grant
Standard Desks, Macey Filing Cabinets and Sectional Book Cases, Steel Book Units, Filing Devices and Safe Cabinets
J. G. Marshall Company
Office and Library Furniture
959 Liberty Avenue Pittsburg, Pa.
Mellon National^ Bank
5J4 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
Choice Delicatessen
for late lunches and suppers
STEVENSON’S STORES
606 Wood Street Highland & Centre Aves.Down town East End
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield 
Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
Bell phone 1587 Court P. & A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkins 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa,
For Hire
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats 
White Vests, S t r i p e d 
Trousers, Opera Hats 
Black Suits for Funerals.
New Place, New Suits 
New Styles
Best service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
Vz=uz==Ipz’ Alzr 
Vo"e"oI=if Alzr 
d"p.rzp’ nzul
Chocolates
If you don’t trade here we both lose
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
-o—Floral Experts—o-
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
SAILOR
Tailor
Peoples Bank Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
GOOD
CLOTHES
CHEAPER
“BETWEEN FRIENDS”
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better she likes it.
R E Y M E R S
Enterprise Pressing Company
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’ Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Offiec 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal St., N* S*
ALWAYS BUYZATEK CHOCOLATE
MORE ALMONDSSWEETER MILKSMOOTHER CHOCOLATE.
at the “beanery” and everywhere
