THE TARTAN
Ail vou can eat... and more!
Samuel Greonfleld/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
AEPi sponsored the third annual Wlng-A-Thon In support of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation last Wednesday In the Skibo Ballroom. Left, 
Dean of Student Affairs Mike Murphy chows down, viciously attacking his share of the wings. Right, Theta XI brother John Nadzam, fifth 
year chemistry major, finishes off a large plate as fast as he can. The Wlng-A-Thon Trophy was won by the team from Sigma Nu, who wolfed 
down an ungodly amount of wings — 490 — In half an hour. Their nearly Inhuman accomplishment may have caused some gastric 
consternation, but It was worth It for a good cause.
Senate passes 
new bylaws
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
Last Tuesday, Student Senate 
passed the new student body by­
laws by a vote of 17-1-2. These 
bylaws combine the formerly 
separate constitution, fiscal 
policy, and bylaws into one docu­
ment based __________________
on a system 
that follows 
Robert’s 
Rules of Or­
der, the sys- —
tem of par­
liamentary __________________
procedure ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
that Senate uses.
“I think we have a stronger 
document here,” said CIT Sena­
tor Greg Haverkamp, who is chair 
of Senate’s Constitution Commit­
tee which was responsible for 
drafting the bylaws. “I think that, 
organizationally, it’s quite good,” 
he said. “It's less complex than 
the old, separate documents. 
We’ve made sure to check for ar­
eas that are contradictory.”
SCS Senator Erik Altmann ex­
pressed his pleasure with the re-
sults. “I think there were a num­
ber of improvements,” said 
Altmann. He was particularly 
happy with the results achieved 
as far as restructuring Senate’s 
ability to fund organizations. “We 
did what we could to make sure 
that spending will be under con­
trol,” he said.
“I think we have a stronger 
document here."
— Greg Haverkamp 
CIT Senator
One of the new features of the 
bylaws is that the Senate Fund­
ing and Recognition Committee 
(F&R), which handles the pri­
mary approval of budgets for stu­
dent organizations that receive 
subsidies from the Activities Foe, 
is now explicitly empowered to 
decide whothor an expenditure in 
justifiable, as opposed to whothor 
that expenditure is permissible, 
according to Altmann.
CFA Senator Moneot Singh, the 
Plonso AEE BYLAWS, pngo 4
Senate holds budget hearing
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Student Senate held fall budget hearings this 
past Tuesday, making several decisions on rais­
ing and lowering various groups’ subsidies. Sen­
ate allocated approximately $128,000 to 23 orga­
nizations, $5,212 more than is available from the 
Activities Fee.
Most organizations’ budgets were reduced by 
an amount agreed upon with the Senate Funding 
and Recognition Committee (F&R) during earlier 
budget hearings.
Two organizations, University Rowing Club 
and CMU EMS, successfully lobbied with Senate 
to have their budgets increased.
However, many organizations had additional 
cuts decided at the Senate budget hearing, and 
many groups that asked for budget increases did
not get them.
Jay Laefer, Student Government treasurer, de­
cided to deal with the deficit by freezing $3,400 
from the Senate operating budget and $2,000 from 
the Political Speakers Forum Board (PSFB), a 
branch of Senate.
Other Senators proposed various ideas to deal 
with the deficit, such as eliminating the subsidy of 
The Tartan or zeroing the budget of PSF3 en­
tirely. Both of these proposals failed.
Also, Erik Larson, Student Government chief of 
staff, proposed using excess money from the Ac­
tivities Fee reserve, which currently amounts to 
nine percent of the total Activities Fee, as opposed 
to the six percent mandated by Senate’s old fiscal 
policy. The fiscal policy is due to be replaced by a 
policy outline in the student body bylaws, which 
take effect this Tuesday. This idea was not pro- 
Please see BUDGETS, page 4
Cycling Club funding unfrozen
Fence fall down, go boom
A segment of the fence has cracked, the old wood held up only by the Inches-thlck layer of paint covering 
It. The last time the fence broke was In the summer of 1989.
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
As of last Wednesday, the Stu­
dent Senate Funding & Recogni­
tion Committee (F&R) restored 
the funding of the CMU Cycling 
Club. F&R froze the funding of 
the Cycling Club the previous 
Wednesday after complaints by 
club member Erik Altmann, who 
is also a Student Senator (SCS). 
Five members of F&R present at 
the meeting on November 11 
voted 3-0-2 to freeze the club’s 
fall budget.
According to Altmann, the rea­
son for freezing the funding was 
that the Cycling Club was irre­
sponsible in not distributing 
keycards to the Cycling Club tool 
room.
Mark Roces, junior professional 
and creative writing major, the 
former president of the Cycling 
Club, believes that Altmann did 
not exhaust all his'options in at­
tempting to obtain a keycard. 
Roces also feels that Altmann 
placed himself in what could be a 
conflict of interest. “He solved 
the problem as a Senator and not 
as a member of the club.... He 
pulled strings to remedy the situ­
ation,” said Roces.
Altmann disagrees. “I believe 
that my actions are beyond re­
proach. I have taken steps to en­
sure that I did not place myself in 
a conflict-of-interest situation.... 
I am not willing to relinquish my 
rights as a member of the campus 
community simply because I am 
on Senate,” said Altmann.
Roces read a prepared speech
at the Senate meeting on Tues­
day, expressing his dissatisfac­
tion with the actions of Senators 
and Senate as a whole. Roces also 
officially announced his resigna­
tion as president of the Cycling 
Club in protest.
H&SS Senator David Martin, a 
member of the F&R committe 
who abstained from voting be­
cause of friends in the club, said 
that there was no precedent for
tho action F&R took against the 
Cycling Club. “I think that tho 
freezing of funds is certainly the 
wrong thing to do. Funding has 
little or nothing to do with 
keycards,” said Martin, who indi­
cated that he would not abstain 
from future votes concerning tho 
frozen funds.
However, GSIA Senator 
Michael Loomis, chair of the F&R 
Please soe CYCLING, page 5
F&R Chair Michael Loomis speaks with former Cycling Club president 
Mark Roces at the Senate Budget Hearings last Tuesday.
SDC makes new damage policy
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, CMU’s Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC) voted in favor of a resolution which 
will affect how much each CMU student is required 
to pay for common area damage in campus hous­
ing.
SDC members approved a resolution which stated 
that, in a case in which common area damages 
cannot be assessed to one person, the resulting 
costs should be distributed among all the residents 
of the building in which the damage occurred. 
Considering three options regarding who should 
be charged, SDC representatives voted 11-3-3 in 
favor of the residents of the entire building. Other 
options included charging only members of the 
floor on which the damage occurred or charging all 
campuB residents.
This resolution came as a result of SDC’s desire 
to give residents a voice in housing policy regard­
ing common area damage. Currently, area coordi-
nators decide who should pay for damage done to 
residence building hallways, study lounges, and 
other common areas. In most caBes, the residents 
of the floor on which the damage occurred are 
charged for any resulting costs. However, after two 
weeks of eliciting student opinions and discussing 
the available options, SDC members decided that 
charging all the residents of the building which 
was vandalized would be a more reasonable course 
of action.
SDC will now present the resolution to CMU’s 
Housing Office.
“Housing welcomes SDC’s input andiswillingto 
follow their guidance,” said Amy Ginther, assis­
tant director of Housing for Residence Life. The 
resolution will be reflected in the monthly state­
ments of common area charges which are distrib­
uted to resident assistants, she said. However, 
Ginther also said that this resolution wilj not affect 
the official policy stated in the student handbook.
Additionally, Ginther said that the resolution 
Please see SDC, page S
Classifieds
Comics.....
Diversions 
Features...
Forum......
Sports.......
Calendar... 
Vox Populi
•How to get a job. 
See page LI.
• Sexual harass­
ment: a serious 
discussion.
See page 7
• Die Fledermaus; 
an operetta at 
CMU
See page LI
•Women’s basket- 
...12 ball captures tour- 
,..L4 nement with upset 
,.L9 victory.
...LI See page 9
....6
....9 ‘Joseph Steffan
LI 4 speaks at CMU on 
LI 4 discrimination.
See page L2
Michael Walker, Brent Montone, a 7th grader 
at St. Bernard school, Andy Folmer, and Andy 
Vaughan, appear In the Scotch ’n’ Soda 
production of March of the Falsettos.
Inside

---------------------------------------------------

SDCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSTHIS JUST IN...
Accord reached in 
Europe trade talks
BRUSSELS, November 20 (DJ) — The Euro­
pean Community (EC) Commission and the U.S. 
have reached an accord to cut farm subsidies 
that could clear the way for a conclusion of the 
six-and-a-half-year-old Uruguay Round of trade 
talks, an EC source confirmed.
Details weren’t immediately available. The 
EC Baid it would brief journalists on the accord 
Friday at 1:15 pm.
The EC’s top trade official, Commission Vice 
President Frans Andriessen, and its farm nego­
tiator, Agriculture Commissioner Ray Mac- 
Sharry, were briefing their EC Commission col­
leagues on the accord. The Commission is offi­
cially charged with negotiating trade agreements 
for the 12 Community members.
U.K. Prime Minister John Major also con­
firmed late Friday that EC and the U.S. had 
reached an accord.
Officials of the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade (GATT) in Geneva said the org­
anization’s Trade Negotiating Committee may 
meet next week to restart the moribund Uru­
guay Round of world trade talks, which have 
been blocked for more than two years by the 
dispute over how deeply to cut farm subsidies.
Meanwhile, in Washington, President George 
Bush told reporters, “We have avoided a possible 
trade war, and that is very, very important.” 
The President accompanied his brief announce­
ment with thanks to Major “for his key role as 
current president of the EC.” He said he wanted 
to “salute our partners and our extraordinarily 
effective [U.S.] team.”
Bush urged the 108 nations participating in 
the six-year-old Uruguay Round of GATT to 
show “flexibility” during intensive negotiations 
that are expected to begin as early as next week 
and continue into late December.
Bush and other leaders of the Group of Seven 
major industrialized nations had endorsed 
completion of the GATT round by year-end, al­
though political opposition in Europe to agricul­
tural trade liberalization had raised questions 
about how quickly an agreement could be se­
cured on the multilateral front.
Clinton meets with 
Congressional leaders
State Dep’t releases results 
of Clinton investigation
WASHINGTON, November 20 
(DJ) — The State Department 
inspector general who investi­
gated the pre-election search of 
Governor Bill Clinton’s passport 
files didn’t interview Republican 
campaign organization officials, 
even though he acknowledged 
that the search involved political 
appointees trying to influence the 
election, according to The Wall 
Street Journal.
Sherman Funk, the inspector 
general, has said that he never 
interviewed officials at either the 
Republican National Committee 
or Bush-Quayle ’92, the re-elec- 
tion organization, because the 
information he had gathered 
didn't lead him in that direction. 
He did interview White House 
Chief of Staff James Baker, who 
had overall responsibility for the 
campaign but wasn’t directly in­
volved in the two organizations.
Funk concludcd in his report, 
however, that the passport search 
had been driven by political ap­
pointees at tho department who 
had “partisan liopes to derail the 
Clinton campaign.”
The report’s appendix, which 
liHts tho people questioned in the
inquiry, doesn’t include members 
of the campaign organizations.
The failure to interview cam­
paign officials is only one aspect 
of the report, which was released 
Wednesday, that has angered 
Democratic lawmakers. These 
critics complain that Funk lim­
ited the scope of his investigation 
and failed to resolve certain in­
consistencies that appear in the 
report.
Rep. William Clay (I)-Mo.), 
chairman of the House Post Of­
fice and Civil Service Committee, 
said he pldns an investigation 
into the White House’s role in 
this matter.
In response to the inspector 
general’s report, the General Ac­
counting Office (GAO), a congres­
sional watchdog agency that is 
conducting its own investigati on 
of the Bcandal, has been directed 
by a group of House members to 
interview campaign officials. The 
GAO is expected to receive much 
of the backup material from 
Funk’s probe to analyze and use 
in its own inquiry.
“We’re not just concerned with 
the answers lie got; we’re con­
cerned about tho questions he
asked and the questions he may 
not have asked,” said a congres­
sional aide who is following the 
issue closely.
In the final weeks of the presi­
dential campaign, with Bush 
trailing far behind Clinton in 
opinion polls, rumors were being 
passed to reporters about a pur­
ported letter written by Clinton 
when he was a graduate student 
in England concerning renuncia­
tion of his citizenship.
These rumors eventually trig­
gered three Freedom of Informa­
tion Act requests by news organi­
zations for data in Clinton’s pass­
port files.
The search of the files was di­
rected by State Department po­
litical appointees, who the re­
port said mishandled the effort.
Funk’s report cites the rumors. 
But the directions given to the 
GAO to include campaign offi­
cials in the inquiry indicate that 
lawmakers felt Funk didn’t fully 
explore where the rumors might 
have been coming from, even 
though he did interview Baker 
and several of his top aides, in­
cluding Margaret Tutwiler and 
Janet Mullins.
WASHINGTON, November 20 
(DJ) — President-elect Clinton 
presented himself to Congress as 
a bipartisan workhorse who will 
engage lawmakers early in shap­
ing policies and will attempt to 
“close the loops” on his economic 
program even before taking of­
fice in January.
“The sense I get from the Ameri­
can people is ... they don’t expect 
miracles of us but they do expect 
progress,” said Clinton, appear- 
ingbefore reporters with congres­
sional leaders of both parties. 
“They do want us to work, they 
want us to work together.”
The Arkansas Democrat used a 
visit to the Capitol both to show­
case his vice president, Tennes­
see Senator A1 Gore, and reach 
out to Republican leaders and 
influential chairs whose support 
he seeks in the House and Sen­
ate. The schedule mixed cer­
emony with more-serious private 
consultations on legislation, Cabi­
net appointments, and a range of 
executive actions he is being 
urged to take that would put his 
imprint on the government.
In health care, for instance, he 
is being asked to grant Oregon a 
federal waiver from Medicaid 
rules for its plan to expand cover­
age to all families below the pov­
erty line by eliminating coverage 
for certain procedures that aren’t 
deemed cost-effective.
On trade, while Clinton sig­
naled support for a continuation 
of President Bush’s policy of seek­
ing regional trade agreements in 
this hemisphere, the options dis­
cussed included possibly over­
turning a 1989 Treasury Depart­
ment decision that significantly 
lowered tariffs on imported 
minivans.
Clinton took pains to avoid giv­
ing any specific details of his eco- 
nomic-stimulus package, but an 
early breakfast meeting with 
Democratic leaders fed specula­
tion about a potential $30 to $50 
billion package of investment in­
centives and public works. House 
Ways and Means Chair Dan 
Rostenkowski, who later met 
alone with the President-elect, 
said no figure has been set; the 
Chicago Democrat said he urged 
Clinton to be mindful that prom­
ising such incentives can have an 
adverse impact by encouraging 
companies to delay investment 
until the tax picture is clearer.
At a luncheon with about two 
dozen lawmakers, including the 
bipartisan leadership, Clinton 
emphasized his commitment to 
“disciplined deficit reduction,” 
according to one participant. Re­
sponding to members, he said 
later that any long-term budget 
program would require wholesale 
reforms in health-care programs.
In anecdotes sometimes involv­
ing their own relatives, the new 
President and the lawmakers dis- 
cussed lapses in health coverage 
nationally.
But what set Clinton apart most 
was his desire to engage mem­
bers not just socially but on a 
policy level. There may be a cer­
tain naïveté to his apparent hope 
to interact as easily with mem­
bers of Congress as he did as 
governor with state legislators 
but even among the old Demo­
cratic bulls in Congress there is 
an almost youthful excitement at 
the prospect of having a Presi­
dent who listens to them.
Separately, Robert Reich, atop 
Clinton economic adviser, and 
Warren Christopher, director of 
the governor’s transition team, 
have begun meetings with indi- 
vidual lawmakers this week re­
garding both the economic pro­
gram and pending appointments 
to the Treasury and Office of 
Management and Budget. “The 
key istogetoffthe starting blocks 
early,” said House Budget Com­
mittee Chairman Leon Panetta 
(D-California), who met with 
Reich for an hour. Privately, 
Democrats hope the Clinton camp 
can produce the first outline of a 
program by mid-December, set­
ting the stage for consultations 
with Congress leading up to a 
formal announcement early next 
year.
Bentsen considered for Treasury
WASHINGTON, November 20 (DJ) — Senator 
Lloyd Bentsen (D-Texas) is being mentioned with 
increasing frequency as a possible Treasury Secre­
tary in the Clinton Administration and won’t com­
pletely take himself out of consideration.
A spokesman confirmed that Bill Clinton’s chief 
transition aide, Warren Christopher, visited the 
Texas lawmaker’s office during Clinton’s trip to 
Washington this week. The two discussed various 
names of people who might be candidates for the 
top Treasury post, the spokesman said.
But when asked about whether he would take 
the job, the finance committee chair is coy. Asked 
yesterday, during President-elect Clinton’s trip to 
Capitol Hill, if he wanted to be Treasury Secre­
tary, Bentsen replied: “I’m not seeking it. I’m 
happy where I am.”
When pressed on the question of whether he 
would accept the post if Clinton offers it to him, 
however, Bentsen wouldn’t say anything. Instead, 
he appeared to deliberately change the subject.
A Clinton spokesman, Seth Goldman, explains
that when Christopher visited Bentsen, the Sena­
tor let Christopher know that he wasn’t seeking^ 
cabinet post. But Goldman also quoted Bentsen 
saying to others later: “If the President made such 
an offer, I’d have to take a look at it.”
In many respects, Bentsen appears to be the best 
suited of all the candidates whose names are being 
mentioned for the Treasury position to meet the 
criterion laid out by transition chief Christopher.
As a long-time chairman of a powerful Senate 
committee, Bentsen has more experience in con­
ciliating, arbitrating disputes, and arriving at a 
consensus in a governmental framework than other 
candidates such as Robert Altman, an investment 
banker with the Blacks tone Group, or Robert Rubin, 
a co-chairman of the Wall Street powerhouse, 
Goldman Sachs.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Brendan McFeely
? ??Spring 1993 Activities Fair???
If you have not yet submitted 
your Organization Information 
Form in order to be listed in the 
New Student Organization Direc­
tory and/or participate in the 
Spring 1993 Activities Fair, please 
fill out the following information 
and return it to:
Skibo Information Desk 
Activities Fair
no later than December 4, 1992.
Organization Name:
Contact Person (through Spring 1994): 
Contact Phone:_______________email:
Regularly Scheduled Meeting Time (if known):.
Will you participate in the Spring 1993 Activities Fair, January 19, 1993 from 3:30 pm - 6 pm?___Yes___No
Do you need electrical power?___Yes ____No
Special Requests:__________________________________________________________________
The following information will be used in the 1993-94 Word in addition to the new Student Prganiiation Directory. 
General organization purpose and description: ___________________________________________________
Activities or events your organization participates in and/or sponsors:
Feel free to submit pictures as appropriate. Submitted pictures may or may not be used and cannot be returned,

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSi
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
* SENATE
Meeting of 17 November 1992
Roll Call at 7:05 pm.
Meeting was called to order at
7:07 pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Altmann (SCS), Dean 
(IM), DeRoss (MCS), Engel (CIT), 
Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS), Hal- 
yaksz (HSS), Haverkamp (CIT), 
Holzman (CIT), Knauer (HSS), 
Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), 
McGarvey (IM), Martin (HSS), 
.Potthast (HSS), Rempel (M. atL.), 
Robe (M.atL.), Singh (CFA), 
Spaulding (CFA), Tomblyn 
(MCS), Wallhausen (HSS).
Senators Absent: Kline (CIT), 
Morrow (CFA).
Minutes: Accepted by the
Chair.
Audience ParticipatiomThe
President of the Cycling Club, 
Mark Roces, addressed Senate. 
He requested the separation of 
the Racing Team Divisions of the 
Club from the Cycling Club and 
requestedits non-subsidizedrec­
ognition as an independent orga­
nization. He also resigned as 
president of the CMU Cycling 
Club.
Special Business:
Approval of the Bylaws: Vote 
on previous motion to accept the 
new bylaws in place of the old 
bylaws and Constitution; passed 
17-1-2. Roll call vote results as 
follows:
Albert (abstain), Altmann (yes), 
Dean (abstain), DeRoss (yes), 
Evans (yes), Fadl (yes), Halvaksz
(yes), Haverkamp (yes), Holzman 
(yes), Knauer (yes), Knight (yes), 
Loomis (yes), McGarvey (yes), 
Martin (yes), Potthast (yes), 
Singh (no), Spaulding (yes), 
Tomblyn (yes), Wallhausen (yes).
Election results: The election 
results were ratified.
GSIA Vacancy: Michel Robe 
brought a petition to Senate for 
the seat on GSIA. Motion to ac­
cept by acclamation passed.
Ex-Officios Reports:
Activities Board (Brian 
Papa): AB Coffeehouse presents 
comedienne Nancy Parker on 
Saturday, November 21 at 8 pm 
in the Ballroom, free; Musician 
Tom Acousti, Friday, December 
4 at 8 pm in the Ballroom, free. 
Applications are available at the 
Skibo Info Desk for AB Commit­
tee Chairs for 1993-4; they are 
due back Wednesday, November 
18. Films this week: Thursday, 
November 19, Night on Earth at 
6,8:30,11 pm; Friday, November 
20, Raising Cain at 6, 8,10 pm,
12 am; Sunday, November 22 
Ziggy Stardust at 6, 8,10 pm, 12 
am.
Greek Council (Christian 
Bareford): No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean Mur­
phy): No report.
Student Affairs (Tim Fos­
ter): There are 10 positions still 
open for Orientation counselors.
SDC (Amy Potthast): Wed­
nesday night, SDC will vote on 
how to assess common area dam­
ages. Movie Saturday, A League 
of Their Own, 5:15, 7:30,10 pm, 
12:15 am.
President (Erik Larson for
Natalie Gesmond): PSAC met 
yesterday and discussed ethical 
behavior on campus; also talked 
about possibility of establishing 
an annual picnic to be held the 
night before classes start each 
fall. Erik Larson will be holding 
office hours Thursday 4:30-5:30 
pm. I can also be reached by phone 
or email. In response to calls from 
campus leaders, Natalie asks that 
Senate allow audience members 
to speak at meetings and for stu­
dents to speak for what they be­
lieve in at the meetings.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): GSO
met November 4, minutes are 
posted onbboardassocs.gso. Ilene 
Weiss will perform in the Tilted 
Square on Thursday November 
19 at 4 pm; open to the campus 
community. Next GSO meeting 
is December 2 at 5:30 pm in the 
Tilted Square. Finals Frenzy, the 
GSO end-of-semester party, will 
be December 3 at 8 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom; free food, danc­
ing and two great bands.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): We
have $123,690 left as of my re­
port.
Chair (Matt McGarvey):
Matt will resign effective Mon­
day, November 23. He thanks 
Senate for their support.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis)/Special 
Business:
Budget hearings:
Motion to go into committee as 
a whole passed.
Moved into F&R committee as 
a whole.
Celtic Society: Raised lines 8213 
to $16 and 7794 to $41.
CIA/Pioneers /FRINGE: No 
changes.
Cyc/tngC/u&:Raisedlines8905
Crime and Incident Report
11/15 THEFT, 2:31 pm. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of a theft of computer equipment 
from the Physics Department 
(Medium Energy Group) office. 
The equipment, which included 
one Mac Plus computer, one Mac 
hard drive, and one telephone, 
was missing from the secretary’s 
desk.
11/16 THEFT, 1:44 am. Cam­
pus Police were informed by an 
officer on routine patrol that a 
theft might have occured in GSIA. 
This was confirmed on Monday 
morning when it was discovered 
that a Mac Ilci CPU had been 
taken from a cluster in the GSIA 
building. The thieves had appar­
ently worked around the security 
system.
11/16 MEDICAL ESCORT,
6:38 pm. Responding to a student 
report, Campus Police and Stu­
dent EMS found a student in­
jured on the Tech field. The stu­
dent twisted his ankle while play­
ingsoccer. The student was trans­
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.
11/16 THEFT, 9:29 am. The 
theft of computer equipment from 
Wean Hall was reported. The 
items were stolen from the 
Mathmatics Department and in­
cluded a Dec station, a NeXT sta­
tion, and two interfaces. The 
thieves also left behind approxi­
mately two pounds of graded 
Calculus assignments and tests. 
The value of the Dec station is 
$8331. The value of the NeXT 
station is $3700. The value of the 
interfaces is $900.
U/17 MEDICAL ESCORT,
H:40 pm. A medical escort was 
Provided to a CMU student be­
cause of an injury to his leg that 
"ad been sustained while play- 
basketball. The student was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos­pital.
11/19 MEDICAL ESCORT,
®'50 am. A medical escort was 
Provided to a CMU student who 
,ad injured her right knee by 
^liflg out of her bunk bed. The
student was transported to Pres­
byterian Hospital.
11/19 MEDICAL CALL, 6:08 
pm. Campus Police responded to 
a call notifying them that a per­
son had fallen off a bike and was 
on the ground bleeding. Officers, 
upon arrival, were informed that 
the victim was in the Porter Hall 
basement men’s room. The vic­
tim, a CMU student, had several 
lacerations across the top of his 
head.
Campus Police applied gauze 
pads and pressure to the lacera­
tions until student EMS arrived. 
Upon questioning, the student 
stated that he had been traveling 
down Frew Street when he hit a 
pothole and flew off his bike onto 
the sidewalk. Upon landing, the 
student slid and may have been 
knocked unconscious for a few 
seconds. The student was not
CEMR POINT
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania:
Wednesday, January 20, Point Park College 
Studio #4
Registration: 5:00 - 8:00 Pi
Kent, Ohio:
Thursday, January 21, Kent State University 
Student Center .Third Floor 
Registration: 2:30 - 4:30 Pi
Also At Cedar Point:
Sandusky, Ohio
Tuesday, January 5 & Friday, January 22 
Registration 11:00 si p onrr Pi
(Auditions begin approximately 15 minutes after registration opens)
For additional sites and 
further information contact 
Cedar Point Live Shows 
O. Box 5006 
Sandusky, Ohio 
(419) 627-2390
Performers 
Musicians • Technicians 
Berenstain Bears™
AUDITIONS
to $489 and 7794 to $200.
Doctors of Carnegie: No 
changes.
EMS: Raised lines 8214 to $430, 
8916 to $410, 7210 to $2,645.
Fencing: No changes.
Filmmaking Club: Lowered 
lines 8221 to $300, 7210 to $700.
Gaming Club: No changes.
Health Fair: No changes.
International Relations Orga­
nization: No changes.
Juggling Club: No changes.
Korean Student Association: 
Zeroed budget on all lines.
Men’s Lacrosse: No changes.
Mac Users Group: Zeroed bud­
get on all lines.
Oakland Revue: No changes.
CMU Robotics: Zeroed line 8212 
and lowered line 7210 to $250.
•Triathlon: Lowered lines 8500 
to $1,136 and 7210 to $2,161.
Scotch V Soda: No changes.
Spring Carnival: Zeroed line 
8230 and lowered line 7210 to 
$48,700.
Sweepstakes: Lowered lines 
8211 to $1,000, 7797 to $0 and 
7210 to $15,850.
Ultimate Frisbee: No changes.
University Rowing Club.'Raised 
line 7210 to $28,185.
Women's Lacrosse: N o changes.
Ultimate Frisbee: No changes.
Old Business: None
New Business: Motion to put 
Ultimate Frisbee on probation. 
Motion was seconded and post­
poned until November 24.
Due to a Senate clerical error, 
Committee Reports, Discussion, 
and Announcements are unavail­
able.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Architects chosen 
for new CIT building
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
A Boston architectural firm 
will design a new $15 million 
buildingwhich will house throo 
University departments, the 
architect search committee an­
nounced on November 3.
The committee chose Payette 
and Associates to design the 
80,000-square foot Electronic 
Materials Technology (EMT) 
building, which will be located 
below and to the west of 
Hamerschlag Hall in order to 
take advantage of Hammer- 
schlag’s high-technology Clean 
Room.
The new facility will serve as 
a research center for Electrical 
and Computer Engineering, 
Material Science, and Chemis­
try faculty and students.
Arlen Li, an architect at the 
60-year old Massachusetts 
agency designing the EMT 
building, believes it will be 
ready by the fall of 1995. “It’ll 
take about a year to design, 
then one-and-a-half to two 
years for construction,” said Li.
University Architect Paul 
Tellers thinks the EMT build­
ing will be an aesthetically ap­
pealing addition to campus. 
“We’re building a campus of 
growing im portanco for a grow­
ing university. We build for 
function and quality,” he said.
To locate a firm that could 
meet those requirements, the 
soarch committee, composed of 
CIT faculty, Design and Con­
struction staff, Architocturo 
Department faculty, and Uni­
versity administration repre­
sentatives, started with a list 
of 16 architects. "Wo cut it down 
to a short list of three, then 
interviewed each firm,” said 
Tellers.
The committee based their 
decision on the firms’ previous 
successes in designing research 
lab facilities, ability to control 
costs, and prior design experi­
ence.
Payette and Associates’ Li 
says his firm spends much of 
its time designing research 
buildings. “It’s now the main 
work we do in the office. We’re 
working on a similar project, 
the Center for Molecular Elec­
tronics, at the University of 
Missouri.”
According to Tellers, the de­
sign will be left up to the archi­
tect. “It wasn’t a design compe­
tition,” said Tellers, unlike 
when the University accepted 
design submissions in 1987 for 
the University Center project.
Even if plans haven’t been 
finalized, some things will most 
likely remain in the final de­
sign. For instanco, the EMT 
buildingwill probably have lour 
Plonao soo EMT, pngo S
Correction...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-chief Heidi Hoover at 
x2111, or write her in care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
wearing a helmet at the time of 
the accident.
Compiled By 
MIKE WALKER
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, and suspects 
and fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con­
text of a complete description.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
WOMEN’S WRESTLING CLUB
Serious Women ONLY need apply For appointment call 695-8255
can make you a star 
Pro-styled events, with semi-pro pay TO YOU 7
GET PAID FOR WRESTLING
UP TO 5 TIMES A WEEK!
Professional Instruction & work-out facilities FREE 
Enjoy all expence paid trips, 
on weekends, throughout 
N.Y. W. Va. Pa. Md. & Oh.
NO SALES INVOLVED 
NO COST TO YOU.
1/

---------------------------------------------------

TDCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffS
Beaux Arts Ball planned for spring ’93
CFA tradition returns after four-year absence
By BETH MACDONALD
Tartan Staffwriter
One of Carnegie Mellon 
University’s biggest and most 
talked about traditions, the 
Beaux Arts Ball, will return to 
the campus on February 6,1993. 
Tickets will go on sale as soon as 
classes resume in January. The 
first week will be an opportunity 
for CFA students to buy their 
tickets, and after January 20, the 
remaining tickets will go on sale 
to the entire University.
The Ball, originally intended to 
be a large scale masquerade ball 
held every two years in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, has suffered 
some setbacks in the past decade. 
These setbacks have made it dif­
ficult to keep up the biannual 
tradition. Last year the Ball could 
not be held as planned due to a 
lack of sufficient planning and 
organization.
This year, sophomore drama 
major Alex Steneck has taken on 
the massive job of organizing the 
event.
To make sure that everything 
runs smoothly, Steneck has re­
searched the mistakes made at 
the last two Balls. At the 1984 
ball, the last one to allow the 
serving of alcohol, guests caused 
upwards of $60,000 in damages 
to the building. The next Beaux 
Arts Ball was not held until 1989. 
This time there were few inci­
dents between Security and stu­
dents and only $250 in damages 
to CFA itself. According to 
Steneck, “I’ve heard it was well 
organized, but it was pretty tame 
... not up to expectations.” Steneck 
plans this year’s ball to be well 
organized and safe, as well as “a
less abandonment.”
To accomplish this, Steneck has 
increased the size of his student- 
run committee from seven to “a 
solid core of 25 people.” One new 
position Steneck has re-defined 
is that of Artistic Director. Daniel 
Fine will take on this position 
with the goal, as Steneck puts it, 
of “creating the layout so that it’s 
a production that isn’t just visual 
but an entire experience.” CFA 
will be “transformed into a series 
of different environments, from
with the money raised in ticket 
sales. Otherwise, the Ball is a 
“self supportive,” non-profit 
event, and the organizational 
committee staff is strictly volun­
teer. Ticket prices are set at 
$32.50 for students and $37.50 
for faculty. Steneck is quick to 
point out that students should 
not balk at the price. He says, 
“Normal rock concerts can cost 
$31, and here we’re going to have 
eight hours of at least 14 live 
bands, free food, free beverages,
“[The Beaux Arts Ball will be] a night 
of... reckless abandonment ”
— Alex Steneck, 
sophomore drama major
the top floor of the building rep­
resenting Heaven, to the base­
ment as Hell, and packed with 
different experiences in between.” 
This year the Ball will host 
approximately 14 differentbands, 
including one headlining band, 
local bands, and student bands.
Steneck refuses to reveal who 
the headlining band may be, but 
he admits that they are “speak­
ing to managers of a few big 
names.”
Other attractions will include 
headlining comedians, local per­
forming artists, and a “rave party 
for techno-heads.”
Steneck plans that “each dif­
ferent area in CFA will be a dif­
ferent environment so that every 
person will have at least three or 
four different areas that they will 
enjoy.”
The cost of throwing this mas­
sive party is being fronted by the
night of wild insanity and reck- University and will be replaced CFA itself.
activities, live performances ... it 
will be a totally encompassing 
event.”
Steneck hopes to setup several 
options for students to pay for 
their tickets, such as being able 
to “purchase them with Validine, 
set up a direct line with the stu­
dent loan office so students don’t 
have to put any money down, and 
there is a possibility that people 
will be able to use their credit 
cards.”
The organizing committee has 
already contracted Campus Po­
lice to provide twice the security 
that was present at the Ball three 
years ago, and they will hire other 
monitors to guard against van­
dalism.
Security’s presence should be 
fairly unobtrusive as long as 
“people have a good time and lay 
off the building.” Their primary 
goal will be to prevent damage to
University policy prevents al­
cohol from being allowed at the 
event, and Security will “confis­
cate any alcohol or drugs that 
they see,” said Steneck. Also, 
Emergency Medical Service will 
be on hand, and there will be an 
escort service provided for any 
guests of the Ball who may need 
help getting home after the event.
This year’s event will be differ­
ent from those of previous years’ 
in that, “we have a larger staff, 
we are bringing in more events 
and bands, the sheer attendance 
will be much greater because this 
year the whole campus will have 
a chance to purchase tickets, and 
our publicity will be very thor­
ough,” says Steneck.
Steneck stresses that this will 
be a costume ball, and although 
they are not required, “people are 
strongly urged to wear costumes.” 
He adds, “It’s not a masquerade 
ball — anonymity isn’t the con­
cept — so masks are fine but not 
required.”
Costumes have been extrava­
gant and extremely creative at 
the past Balls, so Steneck en­
courages students to start 
thinking about and making theirs 
now.
The organizing committee is 
still soliciting demo tapes from 
student bands who would like to 
perform at this year’s Beaux Arts 
Ball.
Anyone interested in doing so 
should contact the committee’s 
Entertainment Director, senior 
art major James Thurman, at 
681-3487. .
Any magicians, jugglers, or 
anyone with other similar tal­
ents who would also like to per­
form at the Ball should contact 
Fine at 521-5426.
Senate sets 
fall budgets
BUDGETS, from page 1
posed by any Senator for a vote.
Technically, the reserve is 
meant to cover student organi­
zations that spend over bud­
get, and not Senate over-allo- 
cating, according to Laefer.
As Student Government trea­
surer, Laefer has the power to 
unilaterally freeze the funding 
of any organization in part or 
whole.
Dave Martin, an H&SS Sena­
tor on F&R, believes that the 
hearing went well.
“The budget hearing process 
went fairly smoothly actually.- 
The only big questions arose 
with EMS, Carnival, and 
Crew,” said Martin, who also 
feels that Senate should dip 
into the large reserve in order 
to deal with the deficit, as well 
as across the board retroactive 
cuts on all student organiza­
tions’ budgets equally.
Stephen Simon, a senior ar­
chitecture major and manag­
ing director of Scotch ’n’ Soda, 
believes that Senate should 
investigate the reasons for the 
deficit.
“Ififs due to mismanagement 
in Senate, then they need to re­
evaluate the way they distrib­
ute funds,” said Simon, who 
also thought that the budget 
hearings as a whole were con­
ducted in a reasonably fair 
manner. Scotch ’n’ Soda is one 
of the organizations that lob­
bied unsuccessfully for a bud­
get increase.
Sophomore Randy Bruno, a 
double major in cognitive sci­
ence and biology, and presi­
dent ofthe Fencing Club, ques­
tions the validity of any argu­
ments to decrease funding for 
any organization.
“There are no set guidelines 
or logic for determining sub­
sidy allocations,” said Bruno. 
According to Bruno, F&R was 
unable to give him an answer 
as to why the Fencing Club was 
denied an $80 increase in its 
subsidy.
Fall budgets are those that 
are set during the fall semes­
ter. They take effect on Janu­
ary 1 and last until the end of 
Carnegie Mellon’s fiscal year 
on June 30.
Senate compiles constitution, bylaws, 
fiscal policy in one new document
BYLAWS, from page 1
sole dissenting voice in the final vote to approve the bylaws, dis­
agrees with Altmann. Singh feels that things that he considered 
“side issues” damaged the bylaws. Among these “side issues” are the 
restructuring of abilities of committees, such as that of F&R. “As a
result ofthe side issues _______________________________________
and the politicking that 
went on, I feel that the 
bylaws were compro­
mised,” said Singh.
Havorkamp dis­
agreed with Singh. “I 
fool that [the bylaws] "" 
came through in excellent shape,” Haverkamp said.
Another point Altmann made was the new rules concerning 
referendum's ofthe student body. The idea of the referendum caused 
some consternation last year, when one was used to determine the 
campus climate of opinion on Senate’s controversial resolution 
concerning ROTC programs and the Department of Defense’s official 
policy of discrimination against gays, lesbians, and bisexuals. The
“As a result of the side issues and the politick­
ing ...I feel that the bylaws were compromised.”
— CFA Senator Moneet Singh
bylaws now state that a binding referendum will be required for an 
increase in the Activities Fee more than five percent per fiscal year.
A referendum on other matters may be called if a petition of at least 
1,500 signatures is submitted to Senate within 10 school days of the 
passage of the legislation to be considered by the referendum,
---------------------------------------------------------- according to the bylaws.
This type of referen­
dum will be considered 
binding only if there is 
at least 50 percent voter 
turnout. This require­
ment will presumably 
prevent the domination 
of a referendum by any special interest groups, according to Altmann, 
who feels that referendums are dangerous in any case. “They can be 
just a way to handicap a government,” said Altmann.
Singh is much less optimistic. “I think that this [the approval 
process] has caused a lot of problems between Senators,” said Singh. 
“I suppose this would demonstrate the lowest point Senate’s been at 
for maybe the last three or four years.”
Results of Senate
F&R budget hearings
Unchanged organization
subsidies:from $15,950
Celtic Society.........$207
CIA..........................$4,857from $2,450
Cycling Club...........$484
Doctors of Carnegie $2,105Increased subsidies:
.$1,220CMU EMS...............$2,645
FRINGE....................$2,415from $2,480
Gaming Club..........$289Crew........................$28,185
Health Fair..............$1974from $24,665
IRO..........................$400
Juggling Club..........$320The original budget numbers
.$5,673represent dollar amounts
Oakland Review......$2,000agreed upon in Funding and
Pioneers.................$1,991Recognition meetings with each
Scotch ’n' Soda......$4,933individual organization. These
Ultimate Frisbee .....$1,200jdo not necessarily represent
Women’s Lacrosse.$543the amounts originally
requested by the organizations
Cut subsidies:prior to the Budget Hearings.
Filmmaking Club.....$700
from $1,000The top five subsidies
KSA.........................$0(according to Student
from $389Government Treasurer Jay
MacUser's Group....$0Laefer):
from $4601. Spring Carnival ...$48,500
Robotics Club.........$2502. WRCT.................$41,547
from $3003. AB Concerts.......$39,500
Spring Carnival.......$48,7004. PSFB..................$36,000
from $49,7005. Crew...................$28,185
ATTENTIONSTUDENTS REGISTERING FOR SPRING 1993 CLASSES 
***The History Department has some updated information for you***
79-239-A3 Child Welfare and Reform: The Juvenile Court, Child Welfare and 
Juvenile Justice (this is a 6 unit course not 9) M. Steketee
79-328-A Understanding Urban Policy Issues Past and Present(this course meets TR from 9:00-10:20 not MW C. Jacobson
ADDITIONAL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS/COURSE OFFERINGS
79-268-A The Russian Civil War: Political, Military, and Social History 
9 units Section A MWF 2:30-3:20 WEH8427 S. Karpenko
This course focuses in October 1917, the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia and set up the world’s first socialist state. The October revolution was followed by a vicious and bloody Civil War that raged for almost three years. As Whites battled Reds, million of refugees fled the battlegrounds. A new Bolshevik Party emerged from the Civil War experience, stronger and more authoritarian. This course will deal with the military, political, and social consequences of the Russian Civil War. It will examine how the War affected workers, peasants, and the Party; how and why the Bolsheviks emerged victorious,, and the bitter price they paid for victory. It will be taught by Professor Sergei Karpenko, a visitor from Moscow, 
and it offers students a unique opportunity to learn Russian history from an 
expert from Russia itself.
79-284-A Critical Issues in American Environmental History
9 units Section A TR 10:30-11:50 PH 100 J. Tarr
This course will explore critical issues in the history of the American environment during the last three centuries. Among the specific topics to be covered are changing attitudes towards nature; forms of rural and urban development and environmental effects; the impacts of technology and industrialism; the conversation and environmental movements; and environmental problems and prospects today. The class will follow a lecture/discussion format and will require a research paper.

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSu
DC, from page 1
idicates a real need for Housing 
consult SDC’s housing com- 
littee when important decisions 
rise. She expressed Housing’s 
sire for this interaction with 
jidcnts through SDC.
Laurie Modell, co-chair of SDC’s 
ousing committee, explained the 
rguments supporting and refut- 
ig each of SDC’s options. If only 
le residents who live on the floor
toston company to construct 
Materials Technology building
Community Literacy Center aids Pittsburgh students
. KEEGAN FOLK
'„rtan Staffwriter
five CMU undergraduates and a Psychology 
epartment research assistant have recently fin- 
jjed working on an eight-week project with area 
jblic high school students that might be changing 
ie way Pittsburgh’s public school system works, 
hey have been acting as mentors to urban teenag- 
involved in the INFORM Project at the Com- 
iunity Literacy Center (CLC) in Pittsburgh’s North 
ide.Laura Davis and Kathie Frank, both junior pro- 
¡ssional writing majors, Bob Dixon, senior cre- 
[jve and professional writing major, Beverly 
jines, senior technical writing major, Amy Wil- 
senior German and rhetoric major, and Faye 
[iller, research assistant in the Psychology De- 
jrtment, were the CLC mentors this semester. 
The CLC recruits students, mostly from Oliver 
id Perry high schools, and helps them learn how 
,ey can make a difference in their communities, 
his semester, the INFORM Project produced a 
jcuroent outlining some problems the students 
s in the public school system and some sugges­
ts for improvements. The document, entitled, 
fl Could Make a~Choice...”, was presented to 
lembers of the school board and others on Novem- 
er 12 at a “community conversation” which incor- 
Drated a skit and a slide show into the presenta- 
The “conversation” was planned and pro­
duced by the high school students in conjunction 
with their mentors.
“Each of us faced different kinds of problems and 
different challenges,” said Davis. The initial chal­
lenge was to establish a relationship with the 
teenagers, one in which there was enough trust to 
allow ideas and thoughts to flow freely. Then came 
an even bigger challenge: the mentors had to learn 
how to help their assigned high school students’ 
writing without telling them what or how to write. 
“In high school they stress conventions like gram­
mar and spelling, but at the Center it’s more along 
the lines of content and getting your ideas down on 
paper and going farther with those ideas,” said 
Frank.
The INFORM Project is not just to help high 
school students improve their writing skills, “It’s 
an outlet for kids to go somewhere after school and 
do something productive,” said Frank. The produc­
tion of the kids’ writing into a document for the 
community is a way of teaching them that they can 
have an influence on what happens in the commu­
nity, according to Frank.
It was extra work for the kids, but it was work 
that they approached enthusiastically. Some men­
tors think this is because the Center’s atmosphere 
is so different from the school setting to which the 
kids are accustomed. “There’s a real feeling of 
equality [at the Center]. It’s not like we’re in 
charge, like we’re the authorities,” said Davis. The 
mentors’ job is to be supportive of the INFORM
or in the building which was dam­
aged are charged, the perpetra­
tor might not be punished. How­
ever, if all CMU campus resi­
dents are charged, “no one feels 
it,” Modell said. “If everyone is 
charged $5, few people under­
stand why and even fewer people 
care.”
On the other hand, if all resi­
dents of the building which was 
vandalized are charged, more
ilT, from page 3
live floors, be physically con- 
ected to Hamerschlag, and be 
uilt into the hillside in the man- 
er of Wean and Doherty. 
Deciding to locate the EMT 
«ilding on the hillside poses 
)me design and construction 
roblems, said Tellers. “It’s an 
itremely difficult place to put a 
uilding. The steep slope to the 
'est of Hamerschlag goes to the 
aiiroad tracks, which mean noise 
nd vibration problems.” 
Unfortunately, said Tellers, 
lore’s little other choice.
“The people that work in the 
ew building will be working 
losely with people from 
:araerschlag, Wean, and Scaife. 
Bey’ll need to use the clean room, 
y building the EMT building 
lere, we avoided duplicating 
ipensive facilities,” he said.
'Our task is to make it work, 
«¿it’s certainly feasible. Doherty 
Wean were equally difficult 
tes," said Tellers.
Another task Payette’s eight- 
erson design team will face is 
TO to preserve the architectural 
nd historical integrity of 
lamerschlag.
Vivian Loftness, who repre­
ssed the Architecture Depart- 
on the search committee, 
“If you build up too high to 
lamerschlag, you’d cover the 
wlding. There is a strong argu- 
¦fnt that you can’t violate the 
r°perties of Hamerschlag.”
To try to find a way around this 
problem, Loftness asked 20 se­
niors to think of ways of integrat­
ing the two buildings. “In the 
1989-1990 school year, two dif­
ferent studios in Architecture 
mapped out the possible solu­
tions,” said Loftness.
In addition to problems arising 
from building next to Ham- 
merschlag, the issues the stu­
dents dealt with included space
n
(yfoice..
• Abortion services to 17 weeks 
by the regions most 
experienced provider.
• FREE pregnancy tests.
• Experienced gyne care
• Counseling
• STD & HPV screening
• Confidential, Convenient,
Affordable to all.
K^^BlJLJomen’sl 
»Health 
Services
Of Western Pennsylvania
562-19001
Toll free 800-426-46361 
107 6th St.. Downtown M-Sat 8-5. Thurs. !2-9pm MC/VISA/ HMO's/BC/BS
HAIR CUTS 
EVERY DAY$10 
ciiilîii
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
1 BLOCK AWAY (OFF FORBES AVE.)621-4247
Apartments Unlimited
Efficiency, one-bedroom, 
two-bedroom. 
Shadyside & Squirrel Hill. 
Available December 
and January. 
Negotiable terms. 
521-7838 
-4 hour answering service.
'T
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon
$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
. J.
I $5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with couponriplivprv nr 'irlr.iin
$1.50 off i
Any Two |
Whole Hoagies I 
1I Delivery or Pick-up |
r --------1--
$1.50 off ' $5.99 Large
any Large Pizza | Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up 1 De'ivery Only
Large Plain + ,
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 CokesS9.95 plus lax _____Delivery______J _
Buy one Pizza |
get the same size j
Pizza FREE |
Toppings Extra Pick-up only
T2 MedPizzas + |
1 topping on |
each for $10.50 |
plus tax |Delivery or Pick-up
Hawaiian Pizza
Special
S8.95 plus tax Delivery
Sm White Pizza I preeT0DDin2
& Tossed Salad I free 10PPlns
Only $4.99 ¡
Delivery or Pick-up |
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering.
Coupons not valid with any other offer. 
Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555190 N. Craig St.
writers, to make them realize their ideas are im­
portant — an opportunity that many kids do not 
get in the public school system.
Miller agrees that the CLC program is more 
effective than traditional high schools because it is 
more supportive of the teenagers’ ideas. She also 
thinks the kids were excited to participate in tho 
project because they got the chance to do work they 
feel is important, and because "... writing is very 
empowering, it gives [the high school students] a 
voice.”
The teenagers involved with the project were 
able to get their voices heard, literally, by Barbara 
Bums, president of the Pittsburgh Public School 
Board. They got the chance to interview Bums for 
the project, and she attended the community con­
versation. Even though “the document the stu­
dents came up with wasn’t a proposal for specific 
changes,” at least their concerns and problems 
with the school system and their suggestions for 
changes were heard, said Miller.
Many people who get involved in the mentoring 
program have some interest in becoming educa­
tors, according to Elenore Long, CLC mentor coor­
dinator and graduate student in the English De­
partment. Mentors are learning alternative meth­
ods of educating and multiple theories of literacy 
through the CLC programs. Currently, mentors 
for the INFORM Project are from H&SS, mostly 
from the English Department, but anyone can get 
involved. “Kids there could benefit from more di­
SDC proposes Housing policy
versity,” said Miller.
Other programs at the CLC involve writing with 
other projocts. The HELP Projoct gets students 
involved with designing and building projocts 
within a budget, writing a newsletter about tho 
projoct, and planning a public celebration when 
the project is completed. Tho ARGUE Project’s goal 
is to got communication going in tho community. 
Students in this project learn how to build consen­
sus by using “collaborative planning and rival 
hypothesis strategies.” The ARGUE Project pro­
duced a document on suspension this semester, 
and the HELP Project has built community gar­
dens and playgrounds.
Past INFORM documents have been "Going to 
Work,” about problem solving in the work place 
and what some jobs are really like, and “Teen 
Pregnancy,” which told the stories of teenage moth­
ers’ from their points of view.
The CLC mentor program is available as an 
internship through the English Department. It 
can be taken as a nine or three unit class under the 
supervision of Linda Flower, professor and presi­
dent of the CLC’s Board of Directors, and Elenore 
Long, graduate student in English and mentor 
coordinator. It is open to CMU students in every 
discipline. To find out more about the CLC intern­
ship, contact Flower or Long through the English 
Department. To volunteer at the CLC or find out 
about the other programs, contact the Center di­
rectly at 321-5497.
people will understand the source 
of the fee. Each person will be 
charged a fair amount as opposed 
to the case in which only the floor 
is held responsible for common 
area damage. In this case, each 
floor member might be asked to 
pay a large sum for damage which 
no one on the floor did. If the 
residents of the entire building 
are charged, “people feel it but 
not too much,” Modell said.
and lighting problems, air circu­
lation solutions, and lab and of­
fice layout concerns.
The Architecture students also 
completed design studies for two 
possible building sites and devel­
oped a list of architect require­
ments used during the search.
Loftness’ group then presented 
the report to the committee mem­
bers. “We also plan to present it 
to the architect,” said Loftness.
Cycling club regains funding
Club president resigns in protest of freeze
CYCLING, from page 1
committee, believes that 
Altmann took the appropriate 
action. “Altmann came to the 
right place to complain about 
the action of the Cycling Club. 
Senate is the organization that 
grants the Cycling Club its ex­
istence on campus,” said 
Loomis, who also said that he 
approved the funding of the 
Cycling Club’s bicycle tools un­
der the impression that they 
would be available for all stu­
dents to use.
Roces maintains that F&R 
had no right to freeze the club’s 
funding.
“The organization did not vio­
late any of tho rules set forth in 
its own constitution and did 
not violate any of the rules sot 
forth in Senate bylaws. [Alt- 
mann’sj actions were unwar­
ranted because he has no juris­
diction over us [the Cycling 
Club],” said Roces.
Jay Laefer, Student Govorn-
ment treasurer, said that thoro 
is no specific clause in tho consti­
tution, bylaws, or fiscal policy 
which specifically cites com­
plaints from club members as 
grounds for freezing the fund­
ing.
However, Laefer said,' “Tho 
treasurer, tho chair of F&R, or 
Senate as a whole may Iroozo tho 
funds ‘of any organization pro­
vided funds by tho Student Son­
ate,’ ” quoting from tho student 
body bylaws.
Who will teach for Americo?
TEACH FOR AMERICA
makes it possible to teach in an 
urban or rural public school without 
being an education major!
Teach For America Is a national 
teacher corps of talented, 
dedicated individuals from all 
academic majors and ethnic 
backgrounds who commit two 
years to teach In under-resourced 
urban and rural public schools.
Salaries range from 
$15,000 - $27,000 and partial 
cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) or 
deferment (Stafford/GSL) 
of loans is possible.
TEACH FOR AMERICA
Information SessionCarnegie-MellonUniversity
November 23, 1992 at 
6:00 p.m.
Room 12 
Skibo Hall 
Student Activities Building
For more Information contact 
your career center or call 
1-800-832-1230

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Common area charges 
must be better defined
On Wednesday night, the Stu­dent Dormitory Council (SDC) passed a resolution that recom­mends a slight change in policy to the University Housing of­fice. This resolution suggests that Housing should assess charges for damage to dorm com­mon areas to the entire building in which the damage occurred, rather than just to the floor on which the damage occurred. Housing has indicated a desire to cooperate with SDC, which is good.What isn’t good, however, is that this resolution, whether or not Housing accepts it, does not define common area damage any better than it has been defined in the past.Examples of problems in Housing’s damage assessment policies abound. One type of dam­age that is seen on most bills at the end of a year is that caused by the discharging of fire extin­guishers (usually by trouble- making residents), and the sub­sequent cost of refilling these extinguishers. However, last year, Hamerschlag House resi­dents were charged for the dis­charge of two fire extinguishers that were actually used to fight a fire. If Housing is going to charge students for combatting fires, what is the point in stu­dents actually putting them out? Perhaps Housing would have preferred that the students al­low ’Schlag to bum to the ground.Another outrageous attempt to charge students occurred re­cently in Mudge, where a set of
keys including master keys to certain academic buildings was stolen from the RA’s unlocked room. While we certainly sympa­thize with the RA, we cannot accept the judgment of Roslyn Hall, area coordinator for Mudge, Doherty Apartments, and off- campus housing, that this theft constitutes vandalism, and there­fore justifies charging the entire floor for the replacement of the keys and the rekeying of all the locks that the keys can open.The redefinition of vandalism to include theft from a room is not legitimate. This makes about as much sense as charging an entire floor for the theft of a ste­reo from someone’s room.Though Hall tried to justify her decision by calling the theft of things that are not covered by personal home insurance, such as the set of keys, vandalism, it is still impossible to understand how the entire floor can be charged for something that did not happen in a common area, but inside an unlocked room.Unlocked rooms are not com­mon areas and fire extinguishers are sometimes used legitimately. Housing should redefine its poli­cies regarding such problems even further than SDC has rec­ommended. Students need to know that they cannot be charged for doing something responsible like using a fire extinguisher to put out a fire, or for the irrespon­sible behavior of others, such as those who leave their rooms un­locked and return to find some­thing missing.
Students deserve better 
financial aid servicesIn the United States it has become increasingly difficult for college students to get financial aid. Financial aid works on pri­marily three levels; school, state, and national. It is obvious that there needs to be reformation at all three levels. The Carnegie Mellon Financial Aid Office is an appropriate place to start.The Carnegie Mellon Finan­cial Aid Office helps a lot of stu­dents —there’s no denying that. Many of us wouldn’t be able to attend Carnegie Mellon without aid. There’s plenty of room for improvement, though, in terms of the services offered and the way the office deals with stu­dents.For those of us at Carnegie Mellon who dread dealing with Financial Aid every year, this is painfully obvious. The instances of talented people who must leave Carnegie Mellon because they just can’t afford to stay are far too frequent. Many of these students do not fall under the present guidelines of “need.” It is hard to imagine that parents who make between $30 and $60 thousand dollars a year can af­ford to pay $15 thousand of a $20 thousand bill. But these people have been deemed non-needy. Too many people are caught up in this battle with the Financial Aid Office, increasing the stress placed on students who are al­ready experiencing one of the heaviest college workloads in the
Letters to the Editor
Columnist concerned 
about misrepresentation
onEditor:
In my column last 
week, I feel I may have 
misrepresented Sena- L6tt6r tO 
torJoshKnauer’sopin-the Edjtor 
ion on the matter of 
elimination of the “service organization 
clause” from the new bylaws of Student 
Senate. I did not intend to present 
Knauer as incompetent, ignorant, or 
generally lacking in understanding of 
the issue. Immediately after the vote, 
Knauer asked Senate to answer his ques­
tion about whom the vote affected in 
order to clarify the matter. Like many 
others in the room, he wanted to know if 
Senate itself had any clue as to what it 
just did.
Again, I did not intend to ridicule 
Knauer in anyway. As I noted in the 
tagline of my column, he was one of the 
few people who maintained some sensi­
bility during the meeting.
Christian M. Restifo 
Senior, ChemE
Greeks object to ‘anti- 
Greek' student movie
will not be shown to freshman during 
Orientation week or before campus mov­
ies because of the anti-Greek slant of the 
film. We commend the students who 
tookit upon themselves to create a project 
that is needed on this campus, but we 
would prefer to see a comprehensive 
look at all possible scenarios so that 
everyone will be more aware of the con­
sequences of their actions.
Joanne Kievan 
Kara Yaraot 
Tricia Williams,
Delta Gamma
Spalding Gray lecture 
coverage full of ‘drivel’
on
nation.The process for applying for aid is frustrating at best. Too often, students feel that the financial aid process is like a jump into a deep chasm of despair, not just a rather tedious process of paper shuffling and red tape. Financial Aid should disclose the guide­lines to any recourse available— the student body needs to know that recourse is possible and what the options are. If the current process is not succeeding in solv­ing students’ problems, perhaps the powers that be need to recon­sider it and create new avenues for students with financial aid grievances.A big part of the problem at Carnegie Mellon relates to the fact that the Financial Aid Office is simply understaffed, and the people that try to help students are dreadfully overworked.The financial aid advisors need to have the time and the incentive to talk to the students, making suggestions and making the pro­cess more humane instead of bank-like.Financial Aid should not be just a financial office. While the ad­ministration is working on the quality of student life, it should consider this problem. If the ad­ministration could make it a pri­mary goal of Financial Aid to treat students like people instead of parasites or freeloaders, the process would not be considered the evil it is now.
onEditor:
On Thursday, No­
vember 19, we attended 
the preview of In Our LettGf to 
Neighborhood, a stu- Sam PHitnr 
dent-directed video lne tan:ur 
thatis designed to deal with the issues of 
sexual violence, date rape, and alcohol 
abuse. The motivations behind this 
movie are excellent, for it is extremely 
important to educate the campus about 
these vital issues. However, we are very 
disappointed by the imbalance of the 
issues covered in this film. The kinds of 
violence addressed in the film can hap­
pen anywhere; dorm parties can get out 
of hand and even walking home alone at 
night can be dangerous. The chance of 
being assaulted in your own room is 
barely covered, and yet we feel this is 
one of the most common situations we 
have encountered on campus.
Unfortunately, much ofthis video con­
centrates just on scenarios set at frater­
nity parties. The scene portrayed may 
be realistic, but it is not the only way 
students can run into trouble. We resent 
the implications made in the film that 
Greeks are part of the problem and are 
ignorant of these social issues. Nowhere 
in the film did we see any positive as­
pects of the Greek system: sober patrols 
and other brothers taking care of women 
or programs sponsored by Greeks to 
raise awareness about issues such as 
rape and alcohol abuse. Showing a spe­
cific house’s letters in the movie, al­
though they disclaimed it as an “editing 
error,” is also inexcusable.
It is our sincere hope that this video
Editor:
What started out as 
a fine review of 
Spalding Gray’s elec- Letter to 
trifying lecture last PHitnr
Tuesday quickly dete- UHS U 
riorated into mindless drivel and griev­
ous blunders. It appears as if your re­
porter merely strung together snippets 
of Gray’s story without any thought. The 
result is a simple and uninteresting di­
gest.
Most disconcerting however, is the 
incorrect reference to John Lithgow as 
the “exception” to the rule that most 
contemporary stage actors are banal, 
and that modern theater languishes in 
mediocrity. With all due respect for 
Lithgow, 1 doubt Gray has any real re­
gard for his work, and it was in fact John 
Malkovich’s performance in “Death of a 
Salesman” Gray spoke so highly of. 
Lithgow should be so lucky.
How tragic indeed, that this newspa­
per fumbled an opportunity to turn this 
campus on to a truly remarkable human 
being.
Mark Samber 
Graduate student, History
The Tartan challenged 
on credibility issue
Editor:
Chair had, as Public Relations Chair, 
presided over the largest expenditures 
on Tartan advertising during my tenure 
on Senate. Coincidence? Perhaps. But, 
given The Tartan’s stake, one can aj 
raise questions about its goals.
The Tartan has previously alleged ethi 
cal problems in Senate. Moreover, thos; 
allegations were notably unspecific, com 
pared to the present instance. The irony 
is difficult to escape.
At last Tuesday’s Senate meeting, 
supported a motion to cut The Tartan’i 
subsidy by 25 percent. There are severs 
justifications for such a cut, but threi 
are most salient. First, the $6,000 re 
covered would have helped reconcile our 
fall subsidy allocations with the ’92—’93 
revenue shortfall. (Fiscal restraint hat 
been applied to the fall subsidies by thi 
time they were allocated.)
Second, with a subsidy of only 17 per 
cent of its total budget, The Tartan will 
suffer much less from a cut oflast spring1! 
subsidies than will the many organiza 
tions funded primarily through Senate 
Fairness dictates a special adjustment 
to The Tartan’s subsidy.
Third, The Tartan must become inde­
pendent if it wants to continue lobbying 
Student Government. Otherwise, queS' 
tions about conflict ofinterest will recur. 
The motion, for a cut of less than 5 
percent of The Tartan’s total budget 
was a measured step in this direction.
Nevertheless, facinga wail ofindigm 
tion, the motion failed. But perhaps thi 
point got across. The Tartan can b 
to shore up its credibility either by be­
having less like a special-interest lobby, 
or by getting off the dole.
Erik Altmann 
Student Senator 
Graduate student, SCS
WRCT apologizes to 
The Tartan for statement
onShould funded orga­
nizations use money 
from the public pie to L©tt©B* ÍO 
defend their slice? rrl!+m<
That’s the ethical ques- the Edlt0r 
tion raised by last week’s Tartan edito­
rial, “Fiscal woes deserve intelligent so­
lution.”
The editorial advises against an across- 
the-board subsidy cut for all organiza­
tions, as proposed by Senate’s Funding 
and Recognition Committee. Instead, it 
recommends freezing ’92-’93 subsidies 
at ’91-92 levels. Remarkably, The Tar­
tan would benefit from its own advice.
"Similarly, an editorial last spring en­
dorsed candidates for internal Senate 
elections. The Tartan’s choice for Senate
Letter to 
the Editor
issue 6 of Thi
Editor:
We wouldlike to pub­
licly apologize for the 
statement concerning 
The Tartan that ap­
peared with our Top 20 
playlist in Volume 8,
Student Union.
It was in very poor taste and not ap 
proved by the WRCT Public Relations 
Director. The individuals involved have 
been reprimanded and it will not occui 
in the future. We hope that no animosity 
has been generated by this incident be 
tween WRCT and The Tartan. Agate 
we wholeheartedly apologize for this 
matter.
Todd Padezanin 
General Manager, WRCT 
Senior, CivE 
Sean Goller 
Public Relations Director, WRCT 
Senior, ECE
Christmas commercialism sells as usual
Thanksgiving: we thought it would never arrive, that we’d 
be stuck at Carnegie Mellon forever in a neverending grind of 
tedious classes, insane workloads, and sleep deprivation.
Well, our few days of Thanksgiving freedom are finally uPon 
us, and soon thereafter we will plunge blissfully into a month­
long respite from CMU’s iron clutches.
Abby Schiff On the positive side, I’ll be happy to leave several thing3!
behind when I leave. Tartan Grill breakfasts will be the thin©
I miss least. “Cash or Validine Only!” — screamed at 80,00 
decibels in a voice that is definitely not human — will 1 
replaced by a simple “good morning” from Mom. I will not be
Please see SANTA, P<

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSA
China looking for money, not democracy
Christian M. Restifo
For years I have wondered out 
loud about Hong Kong. Yes, that 
shining example of capitalism in 
Asia will come under Chinese 
control in 1997. What will all the 
businesses do, I thought. Can they 
operate under a communist sys­
tem that loves to crush any form 
of dissent or democracy? Can 
China encourage real growth and 
development?
In the past, China has taken 
steps that indicate it strongly 
desires the benefits capitalism 
has to offer — if it can get them 
without the “nasty” side-effects 
of democracy and increased per­
sonal freedom. George Bush, with 
his unwillingness to tie Most Fa­
vored Nation (MFN) trading sta­
tus to human rights, gave Beijing 
the green light to pursue this 
policy after the Tiananmen 
Square massacre.
Lately, however, Chris Patten, 
the British governor of Hong 
Kong, has been throwing 
wrenches into Beijing’s machine. 
Daring to defy the wishes of the 
Chinese government, Patten has 
introduced a set of reforms that 
would increase citizen participa­
tion in Hong Kong. China, al­
ways fearful of opposition of any 
type, went through the roof.
Among other things, Patten 
plans to lower the voting age from 
21 to 18. He’s also calling for the 
Legislative Council to be more 
representative of the people. 
China agreed to the system where 
20 of the 60 seats would be filled 
by direct election. However, 
Patten wants 10 of the remaining 
seats to be chosen by directly 
elected officials. One can easily 
see how this would eliminate any 
Chinese majority by splitting the 
council in half. To add insult to 
injury, Patten wants to increase 
the scope of representation for 
the remaining 30 seats.
China has responded in the 
typical manner. Beijing has said 
that Patten is jeopardizing the 
agreement that states Hong Kong 
reverts to Chinese control in1997. 
Members of the Legislative Coun­
cil were informed by the Chinese 
government that if they voted for 
Patten’s plan, they could expect 
to lose their jobs.
The usual rhetoric also flowed. 
The Chinese government accused 
“Western forces” of trying to cover 
up their own problems at home 
by attacking China on the inter­
national front. Patten was even 
accused of jeopardizing the fin­
ancial well-being of Hong Kong’s 
stock market.
The problem with all this talk, 
however, is that people favor 
Patten’s plan. Ever since he an­
nounced it, he has been meeting 
with groups and speaking to 
people about it. He claims his
reforms were inspired by meet­
ings with people in Hong Kong. 
One survey showed that 59 per 
cent of people polled supported 
the changes, and the Legislative 
Council voted 32 to 21 to approve 
his ideas.
the situation it generated. The 
Foreign Ministry spokesman said 
that the media had “misrepre­
sented” Zhu’s remark and that 
China would still abide by the 
agreement returning control. 
Hong Kong’s financial secretary
... China desperately wants the 
forbidden fruit of capitalism without 
the sin of democracy.... China will 
have to accept the fact that with 
capitalism comes democratic reform.
China was able to influence the 
Business and Professionals Fed­
eration to oppose the reforms, 
though. They fear that Patten’s 
changes, once implemented by 
1995, will only be destroyed when 
China takes over two years later. 
Such a sudden change towards 
democracy and then immediately 
away from it would create an 
unstable environment that would 
not bode well for business.
In actuality, however, it has 
been China that has created an 
unstable situation. Last week, 
Vice Premier Zhu Rongji was 
quoted as saying that the pro­
posed reforms could jeopardize 
talks between China and Brit­
ain. Hong Kong’s stock market 
dropped sharply for two days af­
ter Zhu made his remark.
China was quick to respond to
also asked business people to re­
main “calm.”
All of these actions point to the 
fact that China desperately wants 
the forbidden fruit of capitalism 
without the sin of democracy. 
Sooner or later, though, China 
will have to accept the fact that 
with capitalism comes democratic 
reform. Patten has asked for coun­
terproposals, but China has of­
fered none and still opposes his.
The stockmarketinHongKong 
has recovered and has been on 
the rise since the two day panic. 
Growth for the economy is ex­
pected to stay at a healthy six 
percent for this year and the next. 
In short, Hong Kong is far from 
going down the tubes as some 
would have people believe. The 
question that remains, then, is 
what will happen after 1997 if
Patten’s plans are implemented?
China has already threatened 
to eliminate changes to the mini­
constitution under which Hong 
Kong operates. There’s no tolling 
what China will do in order to 
retain strict ideological control. 
As has been proven in the past, 
any attempts at democracy will 
be met with harsh reaction.
What can Western democracies 
due in order to force China to 
allow the reforms? They can use 
the carrot of a free market sys­
tem to get China to acquiesce. Tie 
MFN trading status to human 
rights, as Bill Clinton and many 
in Congress favor. Continue back­
ing Patten’s reforms, which could 
be approved for implementation 
by March. Since China wants to 
change its university system to a 
private one with emphasis on 
teaching free market economics, 
make acceptance of Patten’s re­
forms a requirement to be met 
before assistance is granted in 
this arena.
This time, China doesn’t have 
an administration on its side. In 
fact, very few are on its side. The 
people in Hong Kong are in favor 
of a free market economy (as pub­
lic opinion polls shows), Western 
democracies are in favor of it, 
too, and Hong Kong is too juicy a 
steak for China to lose. If China 
wants to eat, make it pay the 
check.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical engineering major.
Students discuss sexual harassment problems
By RUTH RASMUSSEN
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
What woman has not had some man 
whistle at her from a passing car or had 
someone stare at her on the street? If this 
made you uncomfortable, then it was 
sexual harassment. Increasingly, women 
are standing up for themselves and as­
serting that certain actions are sexual 
harassment — for example, the Tailhook 
scandal with the United States Navy or 
the Clarence Thomas confirmation hear­
ings. Generally speaking, sexual harass­
ment is an inappropriate sexualization of 
an otherwise non-sexual relationship.
This has confused many men—the lines 
are being redrawn and sexual harassment 
is being redefined. What exactly are the 
new lines and where is the confusion? Is it 
possible to be sexually harassing someone 
and not know it? What does sexual harass­
ment involve and how can we be more 
aware of it?
The following is an edited transcript 
from a conversation held with four CMU 
students. In the end, the lines drawn are 
fuzzier and the solutions more demanding 
than what we may have previously 
thought, making this issue far more com­
plex than Tailhook or Thomas/Hill.
The Players
Jennifer Geller; senior, history
David Hunt; Graduate student, mechani-
calengineering
Ruth Rasmussen (Moderator); junior, 
policy and management 
Christian Restifo; senior, chemical engi­
neering
Abbey Schiff; sophomore, professional
writing
What is sexual harassment? 
Sexism vs. sexual harassment
Rasmussen: Where is the “fuzziness” in 
defining sexual harassment?
Geller: I find the fuzzy line in the male- 
dominated classrooms. I wonder if the
professor is singling me out because I am a 
female, and for a good reason or to make 
fun of me? Could I really make a complaint 
to the professor that I was being treated 
differently than the males?
Restifo: Singling someone out is sexism.
Geller: Well to me, sexism is sexual ha­
rassment.
Restifo: But based on the legal defini­
tions, they’re different things. Sexism is 
treating someone differently based solely 
on sex. Sexual harassment gets back to the 
ideas of sexual favours, an intimidating 
and hostile environment....
Rasmussen: But the issue for a lot of 
women is that it’s not just the legal defini­
tion anymore. Women’s definitions of sexual 
harassment have changed and the lines 
have blurred.
Restifo: I think that the law is very well 
defined. Now, I will admit, sexism does 
lead to sexual harassment. It’s the perfect 
breeding ground for such a tiling. I think 
that you have to watch where you draw the 
line.
Schiff: Referring to comments in the class 
— I remember in a freshman class, the 
professor did make a sexual type joke. It 
made me uncomfortable—I thought it was 
harassment.
Restifo: I think that in a situation like 
that, it’s based on both players. If you don’t 
know someone, you have to err on the side 
of the safety of tact.
Schiff: Definitely. But another thing is 
that a professor is in a position of power 
already. If I’m a CEO of a corporation and 
have a male secretary who says, “Oh,oh, 
nice tits honey,” I can just fire him. But if 
it was my boss, as it was in the Clarence 
Thomas thing, there is less you can do.
Hunt: If your higher-up is the one mak­
ing the comment, it is very difficult to 
actually find someone who is sympathetic 
enough to go to your superior and repri­
mand him. It comes back to attitude and 
responsiblity.
Restifo: That’s a real problem, if you’re 
dealing with a supervisor who commits
sexual harassment — by definition, a su­
perior (somwone above your supervisor) 
who condones sexual harassment between 
two subordinates is implicitly guilty of 
sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment at CMU 
Rasmussen: What constitutes sexual ha­
rassment on CMU’s campus?
Restifo: A prime example. Last Carni­
val, SAE had their poster where they — 
Geller: No, don’t start with that. It goes 
into pornography because the Chatham 
women were complaining that there was 
pornography.
Restifo: The women I talked to didn’t 
consider it pornography, but sexual ha­
rassment.
Hunt: I think that anything that makes 
a person feel intimidated, especially about 
sex and gender, is by definition sexual 
harassment, and that poster made women 
feel uncomfortable.
Geller: I don’t know. Playboy makes me 
uncomfortable, but I’m not going to censor 
it, you know....
Source: Glamour, September 1992
Restifo: The difference is, if I have a 
Playboy in the bottom of a drawer in my 
room somewhere, that’s different than if 
I take a picture from it and poster it all 
over campus, where it’s bombarding you. 
If that thing was, say, contained solely in 
the SAE house, I think that would be a 
different matter. You have to look at the 
environment that it sets up.
Schiff: That’s the big difference. It’s 
how discreet you are. It’s not what you 
engage in, it’s whether it makes another 
person uncomfortable. If you just look at 
someone and think “pretty” then that’s 
not wrong, unless you make them feel 
uncomfortable. Butifyousay,“hey baby,” 
then that’s different.
Who is responsible?
Rasmussen: Does a woman have a re­
sponsibility not to dress in a certain way 
so as not to illicit certain comments?
Restifo: That’s like saying a woman 
deserves to raped because of the way 
that she dresses.
Please see STUDENTS, page 8
You can celebrate Christmas without Christianity
The Editor’s NotebookTartan or of the Editorial Board.
Christmas is coming up faster 
than a flying reindeer, and most 
people’s minds will soon be filled 
with visions of sugar plums, long 
“gimme” lists, red and green 
lights, repellent relatives, and big 
trees. But how many people actu­
ally stop to consider what Christ­
mas is about?
Before you dismiss this as an-
Editor’s Notebook is a feature 
Jj’hich gives members of The jjCi,
Qftan s Editorial Board the op- other piece of religious prop- 
P°rtunity to express their indi- oganda, which it isn’t, consider 
. ^a/ opinions. Editor’s Note- 
°°k presents the opinions of the 
^dividual author only, not nec- 
frsarily the opinions of The
these facts:
• Nobody is sure Jesus Christ 
was bom when we all think he 
was. December 25,1 AD seems a
terribly arbitrary date, and his­
torical analysis suggests he was 
probably bom in June.
• The pagan holiday of Yule, or 
the winter solstice, happens to be 
on December 22, and has been 
around roughly 2,000 years 
longer than Christmas.
• The Puritans once attempted 
to ban Christmas during the age 
of exploration; in a fit of righ­
teousness they decided that any­
thing so happy and loving was 
probably sinful.
• There are big autonomous 
nations where very few get 
splashed with water when they’re 
bora or put a pine tree up in their
house, and those that don’t are 
about as happy and well adjusted 
as those who do.
• Amid the cries of half-bald 
men screaming “CONVERT! 
CONVERT!” there are many 
many people in America and be­
yond who celebrate the winter 
holidays and who are pagan, ethi­
cal culturalist, secular human­
ist, Jewish, Buddhist, Gnostic, or 
any of a great number of other 
religions that have absolutely 
nothing to do with Christ or God 
as Christians know it.
QED: Christmas as we now 
have it is a celebration of what all 
religions share; love and under-
standing and respect. That for 
one time out of the year, we as 
human beings are able to put 
aside our differences, accept ev­
eryone as they are, and get the 
post office working efficiently. In­
terrupting school is, of course, 
just a side benefit.
If you think it is your job to 
bring Christ to these people, 
please don’t do it at Christmas. 
More often than not, this breeds 
conflict, which is exactly what 
Christmas is not about.
More than anything else, I 
think Christmas is a good time 
for tolerance.
— Kendrick K. Chua
For FadFit
Camoglo Mollon’s Studont Newspaper 
Slnco 1906
Editor-ln-Chlof...........Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor.......M.K. Rodgora
Business Mgr........Timothy S. Blnss
News Editor.........Brondnn McFooly
Forum Editor.............Aaron Jonklns
Sports Editor...............Josh Under
Features Editor...........Megan Dlotz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors.........Marni Borek
Daniel Frey
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.....Glen Hoffman
Art Editor................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor..........Cesar Sanchez
Production Mgr.............Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr.......Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager.......Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..........Chad M'Danlel
Asst. Business Mgr......Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Ed. Kendrick Kerwin Chua
Asst. Forum Ed....Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed....Andy Glendinnlng 
Asst. Features Editors ...Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
Asst. Production Mgrs.....Katie Swango
Derek Wahila 
Photo Staff Mgr. .Samuel Greenfield 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstndor, 
Stophen Gllckor, D.A. Hondorson, 
Mark Hllllor, Dexter Kobayashl, Both 
A. Mosos, Richard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Lubomlr KochanskyJ, Davo Martin, 
Christian Roatlfo, Mlko Shapiro 
Staffwrltors 
Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslsta, Krlston 
Bovorldgo, Trlnotto Chandlor, Bob 
Dixon, Bobblo Dofflomoyor, Koogan 
Folk, Dan Gallaghor, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauron Holnz, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Both Macdonald, Chris Maplos, 
Doclan McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Michels, Truptl Patol, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schiff, Eric Strauss, Androw 
Sproulo, Kelly Sterling, Stoph Stine, 
Jason Togyer, Mlko Walkor, Jason 
Wyse, Lesllo Zubaty 
Art
Andre Khromov
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borle, Matt 
Goldberg, Elliot C. Evans, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Jenifer Mulé, Drew Olbrich, 
Elliott Schiff, Jon Slenk, Jon Thorson 
Design 
Matt Adler 
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Kerry 
Hagan, Reid Hecker, Diane Keen, 
Anne Lopez, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Nathan Hauser, Mac Mirchandanl, 
Jen Urso, Gary Wilson 
Production 
Tony “Sting” deFlglo, Shiv Dewan, 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Otis 
Greene, Alexandra Hector,
Brockett Horne, Michael Peck,
Drew Shefman
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Lenna 
Kydes, Anne Lopez, Catherine Mar­
quis, Tonya Rado, Ed Slavishak, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Andrea Francloni, 
Marybeth Griffin, Karen Grunberg, 
Megan Gurgon, Cheryl Harris, Mlko 
Hofsass, Julian Holllngshead, Jenny 
Hsleh, Hsln-Tzu Huang, Philip Joyce, 
Lesley Kay, Mike Keating, John 
Kunlchlka, Ellen Lalumere, Thomas 
Lee, Sung Lee, Monica Leeke, Nina 
Liang, Ylng Liang, Jackie Maher, 
Tanya Maynlgo, Amy McGovern, J. 
Ralne Pickett, Astrid Rapp, Melissa 
Reaves, Syd Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, 
Zong-JIng Shen, Lisa Vltalbo, Annie 
Wang, Adrian Ylu
Tho Turtan Is tho student newspaper of Camoglfl Mellon University. It Is o weekly newspaper published by students during Die fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of tho University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania PrlnUnß, Inc. Sub­scriptions aro available for tho aemostoror academic year. Tho odltorlol* appearing at the beginning of tho opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cortoono are tho opinions of Individual creators, The Tartan re­serves tho right to reject or condenso any column or political cartoon. Lotto« to tho Editor aro opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, mem­bers of tho Unlvorsltycommunlty.Alourirlntondedfor publication must bo signed and Includo tho writer's addross and phono number for verification. Mames will bo withhold upon request. Tho Tartan requests that letters bo no longer than 350 words, Tho Tartan reserves tho right to condenso or reject any loiter. Copyright ©1992 by Tho Tortan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves tho right to withhold from publication any copy It dooms unlit for publication.Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111 Mailing addross: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Camoglo Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Funded In part by your ActivlUes Fee.AJI rights rosorved.Library of Congress ISSN //: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8DCm Dakeas h waksmdgm pmools h Si clymBtmk rffS
Santa Claus speaks for Joey’s Rent-A-Truck
Continued from SANTA, page 6
forced to cat in a cloud of smoke regard­
less of which section I choose. There will 
be no more flooded walkways to deal 
with at the faintest hint of a drizzle. 
Those eyesore construction projects that 
no one ever seems to be working on, like 
the scaffolding-covered mess at the south 
entrance ofMargaretMorrison Hall, will 
bo blissfully forgotten. All this, holiday 
spirit, and some sleep to boot? My bags 
are already packed.
Yet despite the promise of holiday cheer 
in the upcoming weeks, I find myself 
feelingstrangely ambivalentaboutthem. 
Not everything about our vacation is 
rosy. And I’m not referring to getting 
gi Its that were purchased from the Home 
Shopping Club, either—although those 
are definite downers, particularly the 
porcelain figurines.
My holiday-season gripe is a common 
one: the brazen commercialism that has 
become almost as tasteless as those sil­
ver plastic Christmas trees down at the 
local mall. Holiday promotions and sales 
are one thing; Santa hawking VCRs is
another. I find it somewhat depressing. 
The spiritual, warm, fuzzy side of the 
holidays is almost completely overshad­
owed by hype; commercialism crowds 
the streets, takes over the airwaves, and 
dominates the news media throughout
be reminded by cheerful anchors that 
most of the department stores in which 
we’ll be shopping for presents are bank­
rupt? “Consumer confidence is down,” 
Tom Brokaw says gravely, as though it’s 
our fault that there’s a recession. Lousy
My holiday-season gripe is a common one: 
the brazen commercialism that has become 
almost as tasteless as those silver plastic 
Christmas trees down at the local mall... I 
find it somewhat depressing.
December.
The fact is, Christmas shopping is big 
business in this country. The media has 
been speculating on retail sales for the 
upcoming holiday season since last sum­
mer. On this point and this point only, I 
am in complete agreement with our soon- 
to-be-ex-Vice President Dan Quayle: the 
media iB irritating. Must we constantly
Christmas shopping seasons are bad 
news for people employed in the retail 
industry, but I don’t have one ounce of 
sympathy for all those poor, helpless 
billionaires and conglomerates who own 
the stores. If I managed my finances like 
they did theirs, this column would be 
appearingin the San Quentin Quarterly 
instead of The Tartan. It makes me mad
that the same collection companies that 
routinely let bankrupt stores off the hook 
in a gesture of holiday goodwill would 
have me thrown in the slammer, as the 
following letters illustrate:
“To: Abby Schiff 
Delinquent Amount: $432.75 
Our records show that you are in deep 
trouble. Forget credit ratings, kid. We’ve 
fixed yours good. You’ll be arrested on 
the spot if you so much as buy a Salad 
Shooter on layaway at K-Mart. Let’s put 
the situation into terms that a wretched 
debtor like you can understand: there’s 
an easy way out of this, and there’s a 
hard way out of this. We’re certainly not 
above breaking people’s kneecaps. 
What’s the easy way, you ask? That 
WAS the easy way. Heh heh. You’re 
messing with sadistic fiends who shame­
lessly lift corny lines from B-movies. 
That in itself should tell you something. 
Pay up or else. This is your last warning. 
We know where you live.”
“To: Jefferson Sebastian Hughes III 
CEO, B & S Department Store 
Realizing that you are presently en­
joying anil month vacation yachting in 
the Caribbean, we have arranged for 
this letter to be delivered to your private 
island. According to our records, you 
owe us a few zillion dollars. No big deal 
or anything, just wanted to let you know. 
Love to Bambi and the kids.”
Not to sound like a grinch or a Forum 
columnist or anything, but this is really 
unfair. If there is any way to lodge a 
formal complaint, please let me know.
Otherwise, disregard the fact thatSanta
is a representative for Joey’s Rent-a- 
Truck, and forget that your post-holiday 
Visa bill will be 11 pages long. Even in 
the face of all this commercial hubbub, 
I’m actually looking forward to the up- 
coming weeks. Maybe I’ve been watch­
ing too many reruns of Full House, but 
the family togetherness and good cheer 
you get is well worth suffering through 
It's a Wonderful Life for the umpteenth 
time. ’Tis the season to be jolly. Enjoy 
your vacation and have a happy, healthy, 
restful New Year.
Abby Schiff is a sophomore in H&SS.
Students examine sexual harassment
Continued from STUDENTS, page 7
Rasmussen: It’s an argument. 
Why is it bogus?
Restifo: The only reason that I 
could see valid criticism is in a 
professional environment. But 
just because a woman wears a 
dress, I don’t think....
Hunt: At my undergraduate 
school, quite a number of young 
women, especially on the week­
end, would dress like the stan­
dard bimbo. Big hair, some kind 
of revealing shirt, very short skirt, 
stiletto heels —what is referred 
to as the “come fuck me” outfit....
Geller: But that’s your reading 
of it as a male —
Hunt: Let me finish my state­
ment. I don’t mean to say that 
this is the message that they in­
tend to say. But despite that, 
women have the right to dress as 
they please — in current society 
you have to realize that if you 
wear a short skirt, chances are, 
you will be looked at. You have to 
be aware of the societal context.
Geller: These people who you 
say are dressing in a provocative 
way, that’s part of their identity, 
whether or not they know it’s 
snying, “come fuck me.” Men and 
women have different cultural 
interpretations, and that’s your 
cultural interpretation.
llostifo: I don’t understand the 
basis of how it rolatos to sexual 
harassment.
Hunt: The basis is responsibil­
ity. I mean, one of the things that 
constitutes sexual harassmontis 
prolonged ogling. There’s a soci­
etal context on both sides which 
says certain behavior and certain 
looks gather attention — good or 
not.
Restifo: Are you saying that, in 
a party atmosphere, if a person 
saw another ogling him or her 
and screamed sexual harassment, 
it would be a questionable charge?
Hunt: I’m saying it would be a 
questionable charge because of 
the context.
What can we do?
First, for the pragmatist...
Rassmussen: What do you think 
are the guidelines for avoiding 
sexually harassing someone?
Hunt: I’d say the Golden Rule, 
except that what may be harass­
ing to a female, like staring at 
certain body parts, rude com­
ments, sexual propositions, could 
be construed as complimentary 
as a male.
Restifo: The first thing is tell­
ing someone that it is unaccept­
able. Hopefully, that would re­
sult in a situation where the per­
son would shut up, or change the 
behavior. If you said “I found that 
what you said was offensive,” and 
they do it again, so you say, “Look 
I’ve told you that once before, if 
you do it again, I’ll take action.” 
That might bo enough....
Hunt: Immediate feedback is 
essential. There is much more of 
an impact when someone tells 
you directly that they are hurt.
; Restifo: I think that gets into 
whether or not you know that 
person. I’ve said some pretty rude 
sexual things to my friends. But
I don’t know Jennifer here, so I’m 
not going to crack a sexual re­
mark until she does, at which 
point we play a game until some­
one pushed the limit. Then the 
bounds have been defined.
Rasmussen: Aren’t we assum­
ing a certain amount of sensitiv­
ity from the person who says it? 
So what do you do about the per­
son who is insensitive?
Geller: You hope they graduate 
this Christmas.
Schiff: That’s why you have to 
have, not punishment for it, but 
as Chris said, more than a slap on 
the wrist. Would you go report it 
so that he would apologize, when 
instead he’d do it by himself if 
told that was sexual harassment? 
That’s why you need both imme­
diate feedback and official re­
course.
Hunt: Ideally, it should be 
settled person to person. It’s only 
when the person refuses to take 
corrective action that you need to 
bring in power.
Official recourse at CMU
Rasmussen: Is there anywhere 
to go if you are sexually harassed?
Restifo: You can go to Student 
Affairs. They have a standard 
sexual harassment policy. [Please 
see side bar]
Geller: But do they encourage 
you? I mean, my father is the 
dean of Student Affairs at a much 
smaller college campus, and he 
actively encourages people to con­
front these issues. That’s part of 
his agenda. That’s not part of this 
administration’s agenda, and no 
one can vaguely say that it is.
Restifo: What about freshman 
orientation? Was there anything?
Geller: That’s what I’m talking 
about. That’s the kind of tiling 
that my father actively encour-
ages.
Hunt: There was nothing in the 
graduate program, and this is a 
big problem. Not just because of 
the ratio, but also because a lot of 
the graduate students are from 
foreign countries where women 
are quite literally second class 
citizens. They have to make an 
adjustment, and they may not 
consciously realize what they’re 
doing. One of the things to bring 
up would be a program for the 
foreign students, as well as the 
domestic, that would emphasize 
that American culture is differ­
ent. That here, sexually harass­
ing actions and attitudes will not 
be accepted in this county.
Geller: I think that they get a 
lot of mixed messages. I think 
that they know on the theoretical 
level there is a cultural differ­
ence, but I’m sure that sometimes 
they are hard-pressed to see it in 
operation.
Practical solutions in class 
and in organizations
Restifo: I don’t think that sexual 
harassment is stressed enough. 
It needs to be dealt with seriously 
to the point where you get an 
internal citation, get slapped on 
the wrist, pay your $50 and go. 
Something to the effect of, this is 
wrong, it’s serious, you’re going 
to pay for it. But, I don’t want to 
create the environment of “the 
administration” watching every 
little thing that you do.
Geller: I agree. I think one of 
the solutions is to start having 
dialogues so then it wouldn’t be 
considered the “administration 
watchdogs” type of thing, but it 
would be people who are aware of 
their own environment.
Restifo: Yeah, concerning pro­
fessors, I would like to see, on
Day One, every professor say in 
class, “This is the policy on sexual 
harassment. If you feel like I have 
somehow sexually harassed you, 
please come talk to me. Or, if you 
don’t feel comfortable, this is my 
immediate supervisor. If that 
doesn’t work, then you can go to 
Student Affairs.” If you start do­
ing that — students would be 
like, oh my God, every professor 
and every TA is saying this — 
they must take it seriously.... It 
has to be one of these start from 
Day One things — you want to 
get it out. Two, start to motivate 
discussion, and three, eliminate 
the fear of “Oh, she charged me 
with sexual harassment, what is 
the administration going to do?” 
If you tell people what it is, what 
people can do, and what the con­
sequences are, you’re much more 
likely to understand what is go­
ing on around you. I’d like to see 
student organizations start to fos­
ter something like that. Some 
groups have sexual harassment 
policies, but I really don’t see 
them enforced.
Geller: They probably assume 
that the students will go to the 
administration.
Restifo: When you have sexual 
harassment policy, it is up to each 
sub-unit in the organization to 
say that it is committed to this 
goal. I’m not saying that each 
organization should turn itself 
into the Gestapo, but they should 
say, look, this is the sexual ha­
rassment policy in our organiza­
tion and our offices and it will not 
be violated.
CMU’s sexual harassment policy
Carnegie Mellon University work performance, or creating
seeks to maintain a learning and 
workenvironmentfree from sexual 
harassment. Carnegie Mellon is 
dedicated to the free exchange of 
ideas and the intellectual devel­
opment of ail members of the 
community. Forthis exchange and 
development to take place, the 
environment must promote the 
confidence to work, to study, to 
innovate, and to perform without 
fear of harassment.
Sexual harassment is specifi­
cally prohibited by Carnegie Mellon 
University. Any faculty member, 
staff employee, or student found 
to have violated the University’s 
policy against sexual harassment 
will be subject to immediate and 
appropriate disciplinary action, in­
cluding possible suspension, ter­
mination, or expulsion.
Carnegie Mellon University 
adopts the basic definition of the 
Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission (EEOC) regarding 
sexual harassment as any unwel­
come sexual advances, requests 
for sexual favors, or other verbal 
or physical conduct of a sexual 
nature when:
1. Submission to such conduct 
is an explicit or implicit condition 
of employment or evaluation or 
advancement of a student.
2. Submission to or rejection of 
such conduct is used as the basis 
for employment, evaluation, or 
advancement decisions.
3. Such conduct has the pur­
pose or effect of unreasonably 
interfering with an individual’s
an intimidating, hostile, or of­
fensive work environment.
Under Federal, State and City 
laws, employers have an affir­
mative duty to investigate 
claims of sexual harassment 
and develop appropriate sanc­
tions for such behavior. These 
laws require that employers af­
firmatively address the issue of 
sexual harassment in the work­
place and devise and adopt 
appropriate procedures for 
maintaining a working atmo­
sphere free of sexual pressure 
or intimidation.
Any student, faculty or staff 
member who feels s/he is sexu­
ally harassed, knows of or sus­
pects the occurrence of sexual 
harassment, or desires coun­
seling on coping with potential 
harassment Is strongly urged 
and encouraged to contact im­
mediately, in person, one of 
these advisers. Because of the 
sensitivity of sexual harassment 
issues, an adviserwlll promptly 
and thoroughly review the case 
to determine whether sexual 
harassment has occurred and 
will take the appropriate ac­
tion. All reviews will be designed 
to protect the privacy of and 
minimize suspicion toward all 
parties concerned. Should an 
informal review of an allegation 
of sexual harassment not re­
sult in a satisfactory outcome, 
the matter may be pursued for­
mally through the appropriate 
grievance channel.
source: Student Handbook, 1992-93
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a 
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering 
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, ¿ill linens, 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.
mij
(412) 441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232Toll l'ree 800-767-848?
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon students interested in
Global Technology and Operations 
Sales, Trading, and Research
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
Monday, Xoreniber 2-i 
Skibo llall, /loom 13 
6:30 pm
. ill majors welcome
JPMorgan
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Tartans assassinate Presidents
Team, led by Charlie Connors, jumps out to quick 2-0 start after tourney
Learning 
art of 
bowling
On a particularly blustery 
Friday last week, I remember 
stepping out of The Tartan 
office, and wondering how it 
was that I managed to get 
myself suckered into going 
bowling. I always pictured 
bowling as a sport that I’d pick 
up once I hit 40 and my sex 
drive dropped off to the point 
where the word “ball” meant a 
round object. But me, only 19 
and already staring vacantly 
down the parquet lanes? Oh, 
the humanity!
I wasn’t prepared for what 
was waiting for me inside those 
walls. And beyond that, I’m not 
sure that anything could have 
served as adequate preparation 
... well, maybe unconsciousness. 
Retrospectively, I now recog­
nize Wissman’s as the only 
place that you could play the 
Doors and honestly say that 
they fit in. The place was a 
wormhole in time — if you miss 
the early ’70s, step right in.
The guy that I guessed was 
Wissman looked more like Jim 
Morrison than anyone else.
Only one difference. I think he’s 
the Hair Club for Men’s experi­
mental case gone horribly awry. 
He sprouted hair from every 
crevice. It leaked out from his 
low-buttoned shirt, from his 
head, even from his cuffs. I had 
the ridiculous image of him 
saying, “and remember, I’m not 
only the president but a twisted 
mutation as well.” And judging 
from the decor, I remain con­
vinced old Wissman does acid. 
Next to him, three women stood 
by the counter, all looking like 
Peggy Bundy. Ah, the bowling 
groupies, out in full force.
The Bowling Guru armed me 
with a swirling red bowling ball 
that I was sure was born of the 
molten mother Earth herself. 
Luckily, I had worn my tacky 
button down shirt, which would 
make up for my lack of bowling 
proficiency. As I turned to begin 
my first game, Wissman called 
out, wagging a hairy knuckle in 
the air, advising me to adorn 
the trend- setting bowling shoes 
that we all had to wear. As I 
slipped them on, I wondered 
how many thousands of sweaty 
middle-aged men had done the 
same.
Well, I was pitiful. My first 
try ended up in the gutter. So 
did the second and the third.
The fourth, however, rolled 
confidently down the center of 
the lane, striking the pins with 
an audible crash. Immediately, 
something stirred in my soul. 
Something primitive, some­
thing brutal manifested itself in 
my veins, altering my ego. I 
bowled with passion, with fury, 
with lust. Pins fell like soldiers 
at Pickett’s charge to my 
merciless assault. My bowling 
tall felt like fire in my hands, 
and I wielded it like some 
eighty god of old.
And I realized that I was 
enjoying the experience far 
^ore than I should have been. I 
'°oked at the scoring console 
saw my reflection in the 
Blass. And for one second, a 
horror the likes of which I have 
never known welled up in my 
s°nl, as I no longer saw myself 
faring back, but rather my 
father. Oh well, my dad’s not 
[ such a bad guy after all.
Staffwriter Paul Platosh is a 
-°phomore creative and profes­
sorial writing major.
By LUBOMIR KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Last weekend, the men’s basketball team posted two 
victories in the Western Pennsylvania Classic to start 
the season 2—0. The Tartans’ first win came Friday 
night at home against the Wolverines of Grove City 
College 60-49. On Saturday night, the venue switched 
to the Grove City campus where the they captured an 
exciting last second victory 66-64, over the Presidents 
of Washington and Jefferson College.
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to a quick 14-2 lead 
over Grove City on Friday and never looked back. 
Junior center Derek Dragisich, who was named to the 
All-Tournament team, led the Tartans in the first half 
with eight points. He finished the game with 11 points 
and nine rebounds. Senior co-captain Todd Jenkins 
directed the offense, dishing out five assists and bury­
ing a three-pointer. A run of 11 straight points towards 
the end of the first half helped the Tartans build a 30- 
18 halftime lead.
The Tartans maintained their 12-point lead through 
the first 10 minutes of the second half. Senior co­
captain Chris Benec ignited a Tartan run of 12 straight 
points with two baskets and a free throw, to extend the 
lead to 24 points, 54-30.
Six new Tartans saw their first action of the season. 
“It was important to get the younger guys in the game,” 
said head coach Tony Wingen. Freshman forward 
Kevin Byrne came off the bench to score four points and 
pull down three rebounds in 10 minutes of play.
Also contributing to the balanced scoring attack 
were juniors Mike Hosni (nine points and six re­
bounds), Rony Johns (eight points), and Matt Reiprish 
(four points, three rebounds, three' assists). Jenkins 
finished the game with eight assists and six rebounds. 
Junior forward Charlie Connors, who was also named 
to the All-Tournament team, led all scorers with 13 
points, and pulled down 10 rebounds.
The following night, Connors led the team again in 
scoring with 17 points, and hit the winning shot with 
seven seconds left in the game. This game had a 
completely different personality from the one played 
the previous night. It was the first road game for the 
Tartans, and they trailed for most of it, having to 
defend against two highly-talented and athletic Presi­
dents, Terry Wilkins and Mark Johnson, who led their 
team with 26 and 22 points respectively.
The first half ended with both teams tied at 30. Johns 
was hot from the outside, drilling two three-pointers and 
another two baskets. Connors (six points) and Dragisich 
(eight points) were both strong driving to the hoop.
The Presidents jumped out to a nine-point lead early in 
the second half, and Wingen called a timeout to help the 
Tartans regroup. Dragisich responded with six straight 
points. One could sense that it was going to come down to 
the wire as the game came to an end. Connors explained 
the team’s strategy down the stretch. “We hung in, didn’t 
rush or panic, even though we were down by seven or
“We wanted to win these two games to give us a kick 
start into the season,” commented Wingen. “The team 
showed tremendous enthusiasm late in the game and in 
the locker room afterwards.”
Johns and Connors finished the game with 17 points 
each. Dragisich had 16 points and nine rebounds, and 
Hosni had 10 points.
The Tartans’ next game is in Cleveland against Case 
Western Reserve University on Tuesday. The team then 
hosts the Carnegie Mellon Classic. The first game will be 
against Thiel College. Game time is Friday night, 8 pm.
Astrld Rnpp/Tartan Photographer Sophomore guard Steve Athanas prepares to pass In a 
recent exhibition game.
eight points. We put ourselves in a position to win, and 
we did it.”
Reiprish responded in a big way, hitting a clutch three- 
pointer and a bank shot. Johns hit another three-pointer, 
Connors scored on a driving lay-up, and Hosni tied the 
score at 64-64. This set the stage for the final minute of 
play. The Presidents were bringing the ball up the court 
when Johns stole it. Jenkins then directed the Tartans 
for the final shot of the game. Connors fought hard to get 
open, Jenkins spotted him delivered a clean pass, and 
Connors laid it in for the victory. Ironically, this was 
Carnegie Mellon’s first and only lead of the second half.
Men’s Basketball Box Score
Carnegie Mellon vs. Grove City 
Rony Johns — 3-8 FG, 0 3FG, 2 FT, 1 RB, 8 TP 
Chris Benec — 2-9 FG, 0 3FG, 3 FT, 2 RB, 7 TP 
Kenny Pugh — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 1 RB, 0 TP 
Kevin Byrne — 1-1 FG, 0 3FG, 2 FT, 3 RB, 4 TP 
Steve Athanas — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 0 RB, 0 TP 
David Washington — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 0 RB, 0 TP 
Steve Hartman — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 1 FT, 1 RB, 1 TP 
Todd Jenkins — 1-4 FG, 1 3FG, 0 FT, 6 RB, 3 TP 
Mike Hosni — 3-8 FG, 0 3FG, 3 FT, 6 RB, 9 TP 
Derek Dragisich — 3-11 FG, 0 3FG, 5 FT, 9 RB, 11 TP 
Charlie Connors — 5-7 FG, 0 3FG, 3 FT, 10 RB, 13 TP
Field goal shooting -First half: 14/27 - 51.9% 
Second half: 14/26 - 53.8% 
Total: 28/53 - 52.8%
Carnegie Mellon vs. Washington & Jefferson 
Rony Johns — 6-12 FG, 3 3FG, 2 FT, 3 RB, 17 TP 
Mike Hosni — 4-6 FG, 0 3FG, 2 FT, 5 RB, 10 TP 
Derek Dragisich — 8-12 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 9 RB, 16 TP 
Matt Reiprish — 2-3 FG, 1 3FG, 0 FT, 0 RB, 5 TP 
Charlie Connors — 8-12 FG, 0 3FG, 1 FT, 2 RB, 17 TP 
Chris Benec — 0-5 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 3 RB, 0 TP 
Kenny Pugh — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 0 RB, 0 TP 
Todd Jenkins — 0-3 FG, 0 3FG, 1FT,4 RB, 0 TP 
Kevin Byrne — 0-0 FG, 0 3FG, 0 FT, 0 RB, 0 TP
Field goal shooting -First half: 10/29 - 34.5% 
Second half: 9/25 - 36.0% 
Total: 19/54 - 35.2%
Swimmers battle 
to bitter finale
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter 
& JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon swim 
teams were sunk on the 
scoreboard by Westminster Col­
lege, but according to head 
coach Jim Cutrone, everything 
went well otherwise. The men’s 
team came out on the short end 
of a 110.5-94.5 score, while the 
women’s team was a 116—78 
loser. The men’s match was so 
close that it was actually lost 
on the last swim of the meet. 
However, Cutrone was not dis­
appointed, but in fact, elated at 
the results of the meet com­
bined with the two meets from 
last week.
“It was our third meet in five 
days, so I was wondering how 
both [the men’s and women’s] 
teams would swim,” Cutrone 
said. “It is tough to do three in 
five, but the reason we do it is 
because it gets us ready for the 
conference meet, which is a 
three-day meet. We came away 
with flying colors. We swam 
faster Tuesday, [the day of the 
meet] than we did before our 
first two meets. This was the 
fastest meet of the year for us.”
Chris Graefe (1,000 freestyle 
in 10:22.56) and Geoff Waller 
(500 freestyle in 5:00.56) both 
won individual events and 
placed in another, while Ted 
Beatty placed in two events 
(second place in the 50 freestyle 
in 0:22.67 and third place in 
the 100 freestyle in 0:50.16). 
Matt Moe’s second place finish 
in the 200 breaststroke 
(2:18.77), Todd Vandall’s sec­
ond place finish in the 500 
freestyle(0:22.67)and J.P. Lie’s 
second place standing in the
200 backstroke (2:06.43) were 
other CMU highlights. Graefe 
also placed third in the 200- 
yard breaststroke (2:19.15) and 
Waller second in the 200-yard 
individual medley (2:01.03). 
Waller, Beatty, and Lie were 
members of the Tartans’ sec­
ond-place 400 freestyle relay. 
Waller swam so well that 
Cutrone nominated him for the 
University Athletic Association 
Player of the Week for his per­
formance. Graefe, a freshman, 
had his goggles break halfway 
through the 1,000 freestyle, 
showing the tremendous 
amount of effort he was putting 
into the race.
For the women’s team, Becky 
Fruehan was the only winner, 
in the 50 freestyle (0:26.08), 
and also took home a second- 
place finish in the 100 freestyle 
(0:56.91). Denise Fenwick also 
placed with a second, in the 200 
breaststroke (2:37.65). Per­
sonal bests were set by fresh­
man Suzanne Garrett in the 
500 freestyle (7:27.37), Kate 
Thomas in the 500 freestyle 
(7:34.37) and Dianne Keen in 
the 200 individual medley 
(2:43.66).
“The Westminster coach com­
mented to me that he had been 
coaching the men’s team for 
seven yeafs, and it was the fast­
est they ever swam in a dual 
meet,” Cutrone said. “If they 
had swum the way they did the 
week'before, we would have 
beaten them — we made them 
step to another level.”
Over the break, Cutrone said 
the team would be working to­
wards the UAA championships 
in February. Its next match is 
at Johns Hopkins on December 
4-5, in a tri-meet with JHU 
and Gettysburg College.
Women take first place at 
Susquehanna Tournament
Basketball defeats the 14th-ranked hosts
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor 
& LUBOMIR KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
On Sunday, the women’s basketball team won 
the championship game of the Susquehanna Uni­
versity Tournament by beating the 14th-ranked 
hosts, 67-64, in what could be the biggest game of 
the year for the Tartans. The team, led by junior 
guard Jeanine Megahan (24 points), beat up in 
what looked to be a “dirty” game of basketball. 
Megahan has 47 points after only two games, and 
6'4" sophomore center Merideth McKnight has 36 
after the first two meetings.
In the tournament, Megahan was named as the 
Most Valuable Player for her 47 point, 14 rebound 
attack. McKnight, who had an excellent tourney 
herself, was named to the All-Star team. “This may 
be the biggest win for the girls this year,” said head 
coach Gerri Seidl (99-33 record over the last five 
plus seasons) after the Tartans captured the cham­
pionship.
Saturday, the team beat Lebanon Valley, 70-52. 
The game was never a close one, with the Tartans 
owning the lead from the start. They led by a 
commanding 22-5 margin after a mere nine and a 
half minutes. The first half peaked when CMU had 
an incredible 24 point lead with six and half min­
utes remaining, thanks to a layup from junior 
forward Chandra Buist.
Just a few minutes later, Carnegie Mellon ex­
tended the lead to 25 points on a six-footer from 
McKnight, who finished the night with 20 points 
and 10 rebounds. Lebanon Valley’s only method of 
scoring in the first half after the 25 point lead was 
levied on them was foul shooting, where they scored 
three points in the final minute. At the end of the 
first period, the score was 44-23 in CMU’s favor.
The second half turned out to show no rays of 
sunlight for Lebanon Valley, with CMU putting the 
game out of reach — twice by 32 points. CMU did 
not lose anyone to fouls, but Lebanon Valley lost 
second leading scorer Jan Ogurcak with five and 
half minutes to play in the game. CMU didn’t have 
any successful three point attempts, with the only 
one attempted’by sophomore guard Jenny Gretz.
Leading scorers for the Tartans in the game were 
Megahan, who had 23 points and six rebounds, 
McKnight, and sophomore forward Christa Sober, 
who had eight points.
Lebanon Valley’s leading scorers were Amy Jo 
Rushanan, who finished the game with 16 points 
and eight rebounds and Ogurcak, who had 10 
points and six rebounds in the match.
The Tartans are very intent on this season, a 
great deal of which comes from Seidl. In her time 
at Carnegie Mellon, she has led her squads to a 
107-83 record, three conference championships, 
and two NCAA Division III playoff berths over 
the past five years, and is faced with a tough 
challenge this season.
Seidl has lost four starters from last year’s 18- 
6 team which was ranked in the NCAA Division 
III top 20, at one point as high as ninth, for most 
of the season.
This season, lack of experience is seen as the 
major disadvantage. That should be minimized 
by returning starter Megahan who Seidl describes 
as “the most well-rounded player I have ever 
coached. Megahan can put the ball in the basket 
from any position.” Megahan, who plays both 
guard-and forward, averages 13.1 points and 7.1 
rebounds, and was a first team all-UAA selection 
her freshman year and a second team selection 
last year.
Also returning is senior guard Kelly Sterling, 
the captain of the Tartans, who had to miss most 
of last season with mononucleosis. She brings 
strong leadership to the team and will help run 
the offense. Sterling leads the team with 131 
career assists.
The other returning letter winners are junior 
forward Mary Moore and junior guard Diane 
Jakubiak, sophomore guard/forward Gretz and 
sophomore Sober, forward Buist and center 
McKnight.
There are also five new players joining the 
squad this year. They are senior guards Heather 
Bassett and Stephanie Grey, and forward Debbie 
Adams, and two freshmen: guard Yuko Shimizu 
and forward Yindra Cotman.
Women’s Basketball Box Score
Carnegie Mellon vs. Susquehanna University 
Kelly Sterling — 4-6 FG, 0 FT, 2 RB, 8 TP 
Christa Sober — 2-3 FG, 5 FT, 8 RB, 9 TP 
Jenny Gretz — 2-7 FG, 4 FT, 2 RB, 8 TP 
J. Megahan — 7-16 FG, 10 FT, 8 RB, 24 TP 
Mary Moore — 1-9 FG, 0 FT, 5 RB, 2 TP 
M. McKnight — 6-14 FG, 4 FT, 9 RB, 16 TP

---------------------------------------------------

Mac World magazine announces: 
Hewlett-Packard sweeps 
FIVE major award categories with 
MAC-Connect printer and scanner producisit
GET PAIDFORW TSLORIL, in conjunction with Hewlett-Packard, is launching an exciting promotion 
that will help you convert HP's fame to your own good fortune. The Hewlett-Packard Fame & 
Fortune Promotion for HP MAC-Connect products provides generous customer rebates.
For ordering information and rebate forms call Don Darragh at GBS/Pittsburgh 412/776-4100.
IIP DeskWriter C Printer
* 300-dpi, Laser-Quality Black & Color Printing
* Prints On Plain Paper, Transparencies, Special Paper 
Executive-Size Paper & Envelopes
UP ScanJet IIC Scanner
* Provides Monochrome & Color Scanning
* Provides Image & Text Scanning
Pari
Number
C2113A 
2279A
Description
DeskWriter C 
DeskWriter
Rebate
$50.00
$50.00
List
Price
$ 1,095.00 
$ 599.00
Department 
Faculty & Staff 
*Net Price 
$580.00 
$ 285.00
C1799A ScanJet IIP $50.00 $ 1,095.00 $ 585.00
C1759A ScanJetllC $100.00 $ 1,995.00 $1,050.00
* Price after rebate. Student pricing slightly higher. Shipping, handling and Pennsylvania sales tax are extra.Rebate period ends January 31, 1993.
GBS Computer Systems
20399 Route 19, Suite 204 
Cranberry Township 
Evans City, PA 16033
gr/nf HEWLETT 
PACKARD
.1 a i h o r i z i1 il I> c il I <¦ r

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSrr
Marlins, Rockies evolve in expansion draft
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
On Tuesday, Major League Baseball 
heldits expansion draft with the Florida 
Marlins and Colorado Rockies choosing 
36 players apiece. The hype was over,
| the time of scouting heavily was fin- 
¦ ished. No longer was the clothing of the 
; new teams just a fad, it now had a team 
; behind it with blood and sweat to come 
forth in the next year.
The draft was the first expansion event 
that had been televised for the whole 
viewing world (or at 
least that section of 
the world that had 
access to ESPN), 
which created a 
great deal of hype.
It gave the two new 
teams form; they 
were no longer a 
publicity event or a 
dream to people in 
Miami and Denver, 
but rather they were 
now two new com­
petitive organiza­
tions. Although the protected lists (the 
players who could not be drafted) from 
the 26 major league teams were sup­
posed to be kept secret, the press got 
ahold of them, and splashed the lists 
across USA Today on Monday. All “back­
seat” managers were making their picks 
from the unprotected players but were 
having a tough time, since all free agents 
were not included in the lists. Although 
every team has a shot at the free agents, 
the new teams can hardly afford to sup­
port a $10 million dollar asking salary of 
a Barry Bonds, Wade Boggs, or Joe 
Carter. It was youth that the new teams 
were after, and it was youth that they 
got.
The rules were simple (sort of). All 
players in an organization were eligible, 
with the exception of a few players, those 
with no prior major league experience 
who have played for less than three
years, if they were drafted at 19 or older, 
or four years or less experience if drafted 
when they were 18 or younger. Each 
team could protect 15 players prior to 
the draft, with each Amer-ican League 
team allowed to protect four more be­
tween rounds and each National League 
squad allowed three more on their lists 
between rounds. The draft would last 
three rounds, with each National League 
team losing three players, and each 
American League team losing two, with 
eight of the 14 AL teams losing a third 
player. At the completion of the draft, 
the Rockies 
and the Mar­
lins would 
each have 36 
players, who 
they could do 
what they 
wished with
— trade, 
sign, or send 
to their mi­
nor league 
affiliates.
A coin flip 
determined 
who had first pick in the draft (the 
Rockies), and the other team (the Mar­
lins) would be able to pick first in the 
second and third rounds. There were 
many predictions as to who the first 
player would be in the draft, for it would 
prove the organization to have very 
competant or uninformed scouts. The 
top pick was not a sur­
prise to anyone, for it was 
David Nied, possibly the 
best pitcher in the At­
lanta Braves farm sys­
tem. There was a bit of a 
scurry over the fact that 
Deion Sanders was pro­
tected and Nied was not; 
even to the point that 
owner Ted Turner was accused of step­
ping in. The second choice was not as 
obvious as the first, although it was 
predicted by three-quarters of the press.
Nigel Wilson, a former Toronto Blue 
Jays outfield prospect, was quickly 
snapped up by the Marlins, who went 
after youth instead of veterans with the 
hope of preparing the team for the fu­
ture. The Blue Jays’ 1992 World Series 
team is already split up (due to players 
being released), and the draft made it 
clear that Toronto will be lacking power 
in the future. The Rockies’ second pick 
was Yankees’ third baseman Charlie 
Hayes, who showed that Colorado opted 
for making the team competitive in the 
present instead ofthe future. The Hayes 
pick hurt the Yankees, who have had 
trouble in recent years trying to find a 
third baseman and who will have to now 
use errant youngster Pat Kelly or pla­
toon player Randy Velarde.
The Marlins continued its youngster 
trend throughout the draft with 95 per­
cent of its team under the age of 30. 
Many are unheard of — as an ESPN 
announcer put it, “the draft was one that 
only a scout could love.” There was a 
great deal of talent that changed hands, 
surprisingly, as the Marlins look as 
though they may even be competitive by 
1994.
The Marlins profited on other teams’ 
mistakes, snapping up Angels’ star re­
lief pitcher Bryan Harvey, Oakland 
prodigy infielder Eric Helfand, Yankee 
outfielder Carl Everett, Royals’ first 
baseman Jeff Conine, and pitchers 
Trevor Hoffman and Jose Martinez. 
Apparently, Oakland made such a mis-
The Rockies opted for drafting older 
players, wheras the Marlins seemed 
more interested in the future.
take leaving Helfand unprotected that 
he was traded back to the Athletics for 
former Rookie of the Year Walt Weiss 
and a player to be named later (some­
time in 1993).
Colorado, although stocked with some 
youth to meet their long-term goals, 
chose to pick more experienced players. 
The Rockies have more “household-name 
players” than the Marlins, many of whom 
are already recognized in their former 
cities. Their choices of Boston’s Jody 
Reed, Texas’ Kevin Reimer, and 
Pittsburgh’s Alex Cole sent a “whoops” 
and “Holy Cow!” through many a house­
hold, front office, and television station. 
The experience of the players selected 
shows the Rockies choice to go with 
veterans—12 of 
the Rockies first
13 picks have 
prior big-league 
playing time.
Many of the 
players, al­
though looked 
upon as “no- 
names,” are just 
about ready to 
break in as ma­
jor league play­
ers, and even 
major league 
All-Stars. The
former teams didn’t give up on the play­
ers, they just felt the players would do 
better with other organizations.
After the draft dust settled, the two 
teams created new dust by dealing their 
newly found talent away. In what was 
dubbed to be the “Day of Trades,” seven 
trades were made in the 
~ day, six of which directly 
involved the draft. The 
Marlins led the pack, deal­
ing Greg Hibbard, formerly 
of the Chicago White Sox, 
to the Chicago Cubs for 
. third baseman Gary Scott 
~~~~~ and shortstop Alex Arias.
The Helfand trade was fol­
lowed by Tom Edens being dealt to Hous­
ton for pitcher Hector Carrasco and Brian 
Griffiths, and then Danny Jackson, late 
ofthe Pittsburgh Pirates, was dealt away
to the Philadelphia Phillies for pitchers 
Joel Adamson and Matt Whisenant. The 
Rockies didn’t sit on their rear ends, for 
they made two trades. The first one 
dealt former Boston Rod Sox infielder 
Reed to the Dodgers for pitching standout 
Rudy Soanoz, and then outfielder 
Reimer, a power hitting Toxas Ranger, 
to the Browers for Dante Bichette, who 
possesses similar powor. The trade that 
“overshadowed the draft” was a deal 
between the Cincinnati Reds and Se­
attle Mariners with hard-throwing re­
liever Norm Charlton being dealt north 
for troubled out­
fielder Kevin 
Mitchell. Two days 
later, the Pitts­
burgh Pirates 
made news of their 
own, sending out­
standing second 
baseman Jose 
“Chico” Lind to the 
Kansas City Royals 
for two pitchers. 
Lind, who won the 
Gold Glove only a 
week before, had 
too large of a salary 
to be kept, and the loss of pitchers in the 
draft left the Bucs with no choice.
Although the two new teams do not 
possess a great deal of promise for the
1993 season, their future looks bright. 
The greatest amount of gamos an expan­
sion team has won in its inaugural sea­
son is 70, but there is hope for 80 wins. 
The teams could turn out to be similar to 
the Seattle Mariners, who havo had only 
one winning summer in their 16 yoar 
history, or could bo like the Mots, who 
won a World Championship in thoir eEdp 
enth year. Also, they havo the chance to 
be like the Toronto Bluo Jays, who avor- 
aged 91 wins in the 1980s. The koy to 
either of the teams is thoir farm systems
— if they can tap the youth, they will 
prove successful — if they can’t, thoro 
will soon be league champions with 110 
wins.
Thanksgiving wouldn’t be 
complete without football
NFL COLUMN
by Dave Martin
This week’s column is the last 
column ofthe regular season. I’ve 
never celebrated the end of the 
semester, but maybe it’s time I 
did. So, celebrate with me. Grab 
your favorite non-alcoholic 
beverage(s), sit back, and become 
one with the Sports section.
We’ll all be watching the 
Thanksgiving games, right? Well, 
good. As it should be. Who’s play­
ing? Does it matter? It’s always 
Dallas playing one team, Detroit 
the other. Usually, Dallas loses 
and Detroit-wins.. Wonder how it 
would work if they played each 
other. And what about the play­
ers? Don’t they get upset because 
they never get to have a real
Thanksgiving. They have to 
spend it getting all sweaty and 
risking life and limb, all for some 
points and a couple hundred thou­
sand dollars. Pretty ridiculous if 
you ask me. But in all sincerity, 
this year will be different. Hous­
ton will beat Detroit, Dallas will 
beat the New York Giants. If it 
doesn’t work that way, it’ll be 
because I changed my mind be­
tween now and then.
Sunday, the Buffalo Billskies 
will beat up on the Colts because 
that’s why the Colts are still a 
franchise, so teams like New 
England can get one win a year. 
The Stillers (sic) will be playing 
the Bengals in Ohio. Yuck. Take 
the Stillers even if Bubby Blister's 
a throwing machine. He might 
not be playing, after all. The Bears 
have to go to Cleveland. That’s 
gross. Cleveland’s just so ... so ... 
anyway, the Browns will win, be­
cause that’s what they’re paid to 
do.
The Chiefs from Kansas City 
shouldn’t have any trouble with 
the Jets from New York City. A
battle of cities. That’s pretty cool. 
Raiders and Chargers. You know, 
neither of these teams are very 
good. Don’t tell them that I said 
that, though. They might injure 
me. I figure the Raiders will win 
because they have a better coach. 
No quarterback, but a coach. The 
Dolphins and Saints; now there’s 
a match up you don’t see too of­
ten. And it’s a good thing, the 
field must look disgusting: Gold 
and black and sky blue? I guess 
it’s supposed to be aqua, isn’t it? 
My mistake. Color blind, I guess. 
Take the Saints because I like 
them better. Atlanta had better 
beat the Patriots, or I will be 
upset. Everybody beats the Pa­
triots. (Except the Colts.)
The Battle of the Bays. Take 
Tampa because I said so. The 
Rams and the Vikings will take 
their collective homed helmets 
and bash into each other. Take 
the Vikings because they have 
cool mustaches and swords. Ain’t 
beinghuman great? Philadelphia 
against the Forty-Niners. Should 
be a hum-dinger of a game. Take
the Niners. Washington and 
Phoenix. Wouldn’t it be some­
thing if the Cardinals were to 
beat the Redskins twice this year? 
Won’t happen. Take the ‘Skins.
Tonight, the Redskins will be 
playing the Saints. And I’ll be 
watching every minute of the 
Monday Night game for the first 
time this year. At home. In luxury. 
Or at least as luxurious as home 
can be. I’ll be rooting for the 
Saints, because as I think I men­
tioned before, I like them. They 
have really cool colors and their 
helmets aren’t bad. I’ve always 
kinda liked Bobby Hebert (ay- 
bear) as a quarterback, and 
former West Virginia University 
player Renaldo Turnbull plays 
for them. What can I say? They 
make me happy. The Redskins 
don’t. They’re just a bunch of old, 
injured men. Look for the Saints 
to upset the ’Skins.
And have a Happy Thanksgiv­
ing.
Senior staffwriter Dave Martin 
is a junior psychology major.
Club hockey plays grudge match
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
& CHERYL MADDALENA
; Special to The Tartan
Last Saturday evening the Carnegie Mellon hockey team played a 
! S^dge match against West Virginia University at Golden Mile ice 
; arena in Monroeville. Last year CMU beat WVU to win the league 
! ^ampionship. However, last year’s first line and leading scorers 
; ^ave all graduated, leaving the new rookie line consisting of Greg 
j Hans, Dave Umland, and Roger Maddalena to see how they would ; fare.
The teams played an even game in the first period to a scoreless 
! end. Both CMUs goalie, Scott Berry, and WVU’s goalie made some 
‘oppressive saves. Assisted by the Kiltie Band (taking advantage 
^th the exceptional acoustics) the fans cheered for every check, 
; Peaalty, and save.
The second period was another tight one. There were a few close 
| calls for CMU in the opening minutes as Berry and the defensemen 
ought hard to keep the puck out of its zone. Then, with seven 
^utes to go, a goal was scored on Carnegie Mellon. The atmo­
sphere became very tight as both teams tried shot after shot to no 
avail and penalties were incurred on both sides. Both teams were 
obviously giving their all — CMU’s goal was actually tipped over in 
a struggle and the Kilties were hit with flying game pucks. Finally, 
with 21 seconds to go in the period, Hans scored a tying goal with an 
assist from Maddalena.
The third period proved to be a tough one for CMU. Two minutes 
into the period WVU scored. Apparently riled, the Tartans began to 
play a more physical game. However, they were still having prob­
lems keeping the puck out of their zone andyi elded another goal with 
6:49 left in the game. And a minute and a half later they gave up 
another. A comeback seemed possible as Hans scored, assisted by 
Umland, bringing the score to 4—2 with WVU on top with five 
minutes left. Three minutes later Umland scored a hard-fought goal 
with the assist going to Hans, and CMU pulled its goalie in a last 
attempt to tie the game. After an exciting scuffle at WVU’s net, the 
tide again turned against CMU as West Virginia scored a last goal 
on the empty net. The final score was 5-3 in West Virginia’s favor 
in this close match between two tough teams.
The Carnegie Mellon hockey team will resume games next semes­
ter.
teh aullWAg-Te IfiPeEJf v DE-uJ bssFySk • Music Bu-hmlE-
Pittsburgh Symphony violist Marli Jackohs on his admiration for 
this weekend’s special guest, cellist Lynn Harrell:
“It seems like I always learn
something
from Lynn Harrell.
He’s always been an
inspiring player. His playing is
so multi-faceted—very lyrical,
expressive and beautiful.”
Hear the inspiring 
talents of Lynn Harrell 
this weekend as he 
performs Dvorak’s 
intensely emotional 
Cello Concerto 
in B minor.
Thursday, Dec. 3, 7:30 p.m. Friday, Dec. 4, 8:00 p.m. 
Sunday, Dec. 6, 2:30 p.m.
YURI TEMIRKANOV, conductor LYNN HARRELL, celloDVORAK Conccrto In B minor for Cello and Orchestra, Op. 104 TCHAIKOVSKY Serenade for Strings in C major, Op. 48WAGNER Overture to Rionxi
Thursday, 6:45 p.m.: "Inside the Music,” musical discussion v/ith PS0 Resident Staff Conductor Barbara Yahr, from the Heinz Hall stage.Sunday, 1:30 p.m.: "Musical Medley," pre-concert discussion v/ith Duquesne University professor and composer Joseph Willcox Jenkins, from the Heinz Hall stage.
Tickets: $14-$35Student and Senior Rush: S10, one hour prior to performance, with I.D.can 392-4900Or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office,
USAIr Is the official airline of ihe Pittsburgh Symphony. Guest artist transportation provided by Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc. WQED-FM/80.3 Is the Voice of Ihe Plltflburgh Symphony.
Student Rush Tickets Available!Only $10
Bring your student ID to the Heinz Hall Box Office ONE HOUR before 
the concert and get a regularly priced ticket for just ten bucks, 
(seats subject to availability)

---------------------------------------------------

12DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffS
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
TENNIS
Commissioner:
Jon Ferris, x5502 
Tennis has been completed due 
to the construction on the tennis 
courts.
WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Playoffs will be finished this 
week. The campus champion for 
the majors division is the SAE 
tesim, and for the minors divi­
sion, the TX team.
SQCCER
Commissioners:
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediate — Dave Ekern, 
x5354
Minors — John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only — Molly McDer­
mott, 361-0274 
Finals were played last Thurs­
day. The campus champions are 
as follows:
Majors: Real Mellon A 
intermediate: TX 
Minors: Shooting Worms 
Women Only: Flying Os 
Th e IM soccer MVP was Francoi 
Dary of the Real Mellon A team.
BOWLING
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches will be rolled on the 
Forward Lanes on Forward Av­
enue in Squirrel Hill. Please pay 
all; fees and report your scores to 
the commissioner.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:
Msgors — Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediate — Dave Ekern, 
x5354
Minors — John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only — Molly McDer­
mott, 361-0274 
The campus champions are as 
follows:
Majors: Rude Dogs 
Intermediate: Mantis 
Minors: SAE Tough Guys 
Women Only: SAE 
The IM volleyball MVP was 
John Cheng.
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled and report your scores 
to the IM Office. Score sheets are 
posted on the racquetball courts’ 
bulletin board.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner:
Jon Wei, 688-9504 
The campus champion for the 
majors division was the Dragon 
Balls team.
DARTS
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all games as sched­
uled and report your scores to the 
commissioner.
FENCING
Commissioner:
Randy Bruno, x8672 
The team three weapon tour­
nament was held yesterday.
THREE PERSON VOLLEY­
BALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
FinalB start today. Check with 
the IM Office at x2214 for your 
playoff schedule.
BACKGAMMON & BRIDGE
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all games as sched­
uled and report your scores to the 
commissioner.
UPCOMING SPORTS
BASKETBALL
Start lining up your team now. 
Entries are due on January 21. 
Turn in your entries as Boon as 
possible. Games begin on Janu­
ary 25.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEY­
BALL
Commissioner:
Dave Ward 
Sign up now. Entries are due 
on January 21. Games will be 
played on Sunday nights.
BUSINESS
The IM Board luncheon will 
be held on December 9 at noon 
in Skibo rooms 105 and 106. 
Please make your reservations 
in the IM Office.
The next IM Board meeting 
will be on December 9 at noon 
in Skibo rooms 105 and 106.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
IM Scoreboard
THREE PERSONDIVISION GPioneers Thunder200VOLLEYBALLHeavy & the Boyz 
SAE Interactive
100
010DIVISION I
MAJORSWe Evil110KDR110
DIVISION ASAE Digital Orgasm110
Rude Dogs A1 1 0MINORSAEPi110
Pointless200DIVISION A
The Bundys020SAE Apotheosis200DIVISION J
Navy D020Lady Tartans110
DIVISION BThe Rats020SAE Spike200
SAE EON200CIA020
Rude Dogs B020DIVISION B
C.Rotelli’s Team110Navy A1 1 0DIVISION K
PiKAB020PiLam A100
INTERMEDIATELightening Strikes200TX Theta010
DIVISION AJammers110
SAIO Jam n’ Spoon100DIVISION C
FRINGE Sots020YM110DIVISION L
30 Fingers1 00Club Mech E020GNC100
Zoo B200Outa Here Me’s100
DIVISIONI)TX Eta020
Navy1 1 0DIVISION D
Twinkles B020Navy B020DIVISION M
Team Lovo200Sig Tau A200PiKAA100
PiLam B110TX Epsilon100
DIVISION CFRINGE Bumps020
DTD A1 1 0DIVISION E
Twinkies C200GN Hard Pack200DIVISION N
Need to Win020SAE Moby110Gods of V-ball100
FRINGE Slugs020Risk of Thunder010
DIVISION DPioneers Stormfront110
TX Alpha200DIVISION F
V-ball Spuds020The Velvet Touch010DIVISION O
Fuzzy Set110Just a Few Dudes010TX Delta100
Pioneers Lightning200Navy C100
DIVISIONETwinkies E020
Twinkies A100DIVISION G
DTD B01 0Zoo A100DIVISION P
Net Lag110Three Amigos0 10Syst100
Thunder ’92110SAE Garth Brooks100DIVISIONELamda Sigma Pugs020
Rubber Nipple Sales010DIVISION H
Twinkies D010SAE Kenny Rogers110Compiled by
TX Gamma200TXZeta020ANDY GLENDINNING
onlsefu
hmceCPm
Lsvsm
SwnOwf.
Volunteer to visit your 
high school over winter break to 
talk with students about your 
experience at Carnegie Mellon 
University.
If you are interested, please 
come to a meeting on Wednesday, 
Dec. 2 or Thursday Dec. 3, from 
6:30pm to 7:30pm at the Admis­
sions Office (Warner Hall 101).
If you have any questions, please 
call the Admissions Office at 2082 
and ask for Suzanne Schafer.
CMU cross country results
NCAA Division III Mideast Regional Championships 
Allentown College, November 14
Men: 8000m
CMU placed 8th out of 25 with 226 points. There were 182 runners.
Individual Results
NamePlaceTime
Jim Langer2826:51
Rich Hayes3427:03
Scott Phillips4727:30
Mike Rea4827:34
Kevin Pogany7128:04
Matt Beam11428:54
Omar Sharief15230:38
Women: 5000m
CMU placed 11th out of 33 with 292 points. There were 178 runners.
Individual Results
NamePlaceTime
Melissa Baustert2820:29
Alizs Hildebrand3220:37
Cynthia Kolanowski6221:25
Colleen Barkley8822:02
Wendy Evans10622:24
Jodi Piccolo12623:12
Karen Bryla16025:16
The image in the center, based on the 
universal symbol of mankind, is cradled 
by the helping hand. It shows that all peo­
ple are supported and uplifted by United 
Way efforts.
classified
JOBSSERVICES
$200-$500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa­
tion-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright if PA11KDH.
Springbreakers. Promote our Florida 
Spring Break packages. Earn money and 
free trips. Organize small or large groups. 
Campus Marketing. 800-423-5264.
We're expanding our student network! 
Earn $50 to $600+ weekly In your spare 
time! Be ambitious, call LogiTel (800) 
697-0288.
Greeks & Clubs. Raise a cool $1,000.00 
in just one week! Plus $1000 for the 
member who calls! And a free head­
phone radio just for calling 1-800-932- 
0528, ext. 65.
TRAVEL
WANTED
The Peace corps is here! Representative 
Frank Higdon is available in Room 4GU1, 
Forbes Center, at the University of 
Pittsburgh. Majors we're looking for: 
math, science, business, or a health or 
education field. All expenses paid plus 
benefits. Phone: 412-648-7424. U.S. 
citizenship required.
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.** 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Save $60 off brochure rates!!! Sign up 
by 12/10/92 for this savings!!! Heatwave 
Vacations Spring Break 1993!!! Call 1- 
800-395-wave!!!
Don’t hesitate. Send your ads now anc 
Classifieds will do the rest of the work 
for you!
Send it now!!_________________
Deadline
Deadline for submission of 
classifieds to The Tartan is 5 
pm the Thursday before pub­
lication.
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your classified ad with 
payment today!
Send your ad with 
payment today. 
See your ad in 
print next week!!
Wonder 
where to 
place your 
ads? Then the 
Tartan’s the 
one you’re 
looking for! 
We do ads all 
the time!
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 per
week
21-50 words.........$8.00 per
week
50-100 words.....$10.00 per
week
•Classifieds must be paid 
by cash or check before the 
first scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
•Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
SEND YOUR ADS 
NOW!!!
SEE THEM IN 
PRINT RIGHT BE­
FORE YOUR 
EYES!!!
Tartan Classifieds 
will resume Monday 
January 18.
The due date for sub­
missions is Thursday 
January 14.
Something to Sell? Something you Want?
Let people know In the Classifieds. Send your ad today)
All submisions for publica­
tion must be received the 
Thursday before publication 
along with payment.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

aSaäSBeSBBjBh
Finding a job
Career 
Center 
can help
easier said than done
be accessed on the Andrew bboard 
official.career-center. This forum gives 
information about any new books that 
have come into the Career Center, cur­
rent listings for full or part-time job 
openings, summer internships, and spe­
cial career-related events. It is the fifth 
most read bboard on campus.
This February 6-12 the Career Cen­
ter will be sponsoring the third annual 
Career Week, and this year’s theme will 
be “Open Your Mind to the Possibili­
ties.” Career Week is provided for stu­
dents, faculty, and the community alike 
as an opportunity to explore and make 
decisions about the many career fields. 
During the week, alumni and other pro­
fessionals give talks on their personal
Art tauor, .
career choices and issues. In all, a vast 
amount of information on career oppor-; 
tunities is available for intensive exami­
nation and investigation.
Although the Career Center may not 
be recognized by students as a helpful' 
resource tool, it provides a long list of 
services and programs specially designed 
to help troubled students. “There is a 
myth as to what we can do.... We are 
seen as a placement function, but we are 
much more than that,” says Michalenko.
The Career Center is open 8:30 am-5 
pm Monday through Friday with ex­
tended hours until 7pm on Mondays and 
Thursdays when classes are in session. 
Appointments with counselors can be 
arranged by dialing x2064.
Interview frightens, enlightens student
By M.K. RODGERS
Tartan Managing Editor
I had my first real job inter­
view this week. I'm a senior, so I 
decided to see if everything I’ve 
learned in the past three and a 
half years could earn me some 
money instead of costing me. I 
checked out the Career Center, 
picked up some information, and 
was on my way.
My department was request­
ing resumes for a pre-screen by a 
company, so I submitted mine. A 
few days later, I went to the Busi­
ness Opportunities Conference 
(BOC) and schmoozed the repre­
sentative from that company.
I was looking at all the differ­
ent careers I could choose from— 
did you know that banks like to 
hire writing majors because they 
can teach us what they want us 
to know without having to worry 
about any misguided economic 
theory we might have picked up 
in college? — so I didn’t pay ex­
traordinary attention to this par­
ticular company. Imagine my 
surprise when, about a week 
later, I got a letter saying that an 
interviewer would be on campus 
and would like to talk to me.
AttheCareerCenter,Ileamed 
that in order to interview there 
at all, I had to be registered. So I 
got registered (something I rec­
ommend doing early — unless
you are part of a closed interview 
session, like I was, the slots fill 
up fast and you’ll just be out of 
luck) and a few days later I chose 
a 10:30 am time slot for Friday.
Thursday night, heeding the 
advice of the Career Center lit­
erature, I read up on the com­
pany. Then I came across the 
original letter, and realized that 
I needed a writing sample and a 
transcript. By 10:30 am. The writ­
ing sample was no prob­
lem. But the transcript 
was at the mercy of the 
Registrar's office, and 
it didn’t open until 9 
am.
After a small panic, 
my roommate sug­
gested that I just get 
up in time to be at the 
Registrar by 9 am and 
deal with it then. In the mean­
time, she requested that I shut 
up and go to bed (living with a 
junior has its pluses, especially 
when she is in a totally different 
field and is a step back from the 
whole process at this point).
Friday morning rolled around, 
and I made it to the Registrar. 
Everyone there was amazingly 
nice after I explained my situa­
tion, and I wasn’t even charged 
the rush fee for a transcript. This 
makes an excellent argument for 
having at least one copy of your 
transcript on hand all the time.
Moving on to The Tartan's office, 
I retrieved a writing sample, a 
rewrite of some software docu­
mentation I’d done for a class, 
and paced until it was time to go.
When I got to the Career Cen­
ter, I was met by a recent gradu­
ate of CMU who is now employed 
by this company and had come 
along as a “greeter” for the inter­
viewer. I was glad to see her, and 
I managed to get in a couple of the
I decided to see if every­
thing I've learned in the 
past three and a half years 
could earn me some 
money instead of costing.
stickier questions — like salary, 
what the company is really like to 
work for, and if I could possibly 
relocate to the city I’d really like 
to live in — before the real inter­
view started.
When my interviewer finally 
came into the waiting area, I knew 
it was show time. The discussion 
took place in one of the small 
rooms in the Career Center, with 
a table, two chairs, and a door 
with a window so you can see the 
person across the hall and know 
you aren’t going through the 
whole thing alone.
The questions ran the gamut 
from “explain what interdiscipli- 1 
nary history means” (I’m a double 
major, and very few people un­
derstand it) to “tell me what you 
think the process of writing soft­
ware documentation entails.” I 
didn’t have any problems with 
these questions, except for the 
cotton that suddenly filled my 
mouth and made speaking more 
challenging than usual. A few
----- times, I felt like I missed
the secret part of the ques­
tion — the answer that 
would get me the job on the 
spot, and get rid ofthe sink­
ing feeling in my stomach. 
Finally, I stood up and 
shook the woman’s hand, 
walked down the hall and 
out past the next candi date, 
to whom I offered what I 
hope was an encouraging smile.
The interview didn’t go badly, 
and I’m honestly up in the air 
about what the letter I should get 
in about three weeks will say. I 
like the company, and if I’m of­
fered a position, it is very tempt­
ing to take it and get out of the job 
hunt as soon as possible.
In the meantime, I intend to 
keep my eyes — and ears — open 
about any other opportunities. 
And just in case, my roommate 
andl have the wall for the G.F.Y.’s 
£Go f**k yourself letters] all 
picked out.
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Job-hunting 
dos and don’ts
You may not even know it’s there. But 
in the basement of Warner Hall lies one 
ofthe most helpful resources on campus; 
a tool which can help you finalize your 
future plans — the Career Center.
The Career Center has come a long 
way in its many years at CMU. What 
was originally just an office which posted 
job openings, has become a major force 
on campus in providing jobs and intern­
ships to students. But that is not all it 
does. Now everything from writing a 
resume to arranging a job interview can 
be facilitated by the Career Center.
Directors at the Career Center are 
stressing a theme of diversification in 
recent years. John Michalenko, an asso­
ciate director with the Career Center, 
says, “We are more than an on-campus 
job placement program for technical ma­
jors.... We are a resource that can help 
all kinds of students make career goals 
... locally or nationally. We have a more 
holistic approach these days. We want 
to encompass a variety of services to 
meet everyone’s needs.”
The Career Center is often dubbed 
only as a resource for upperclassmen, 
but Michalenko suggests that students, 
even freshmen, start using the Center 
earlier, especially those with undeclared 
majors. “It saddens me when students 
are confused about their major. If they 
were to come and talk to a counselor, 
they could be helped 
much earlier,” he says.
The Career Center 
certainly does have the 
resources to help stu­
dents. Its counseling 
service is extensive.
.Whether you are ex­
ploring graduate 
school or seeking ad­
vice on your major or 
minor, this process can 
be helpful in investigating options, con­
firming choices, and critically examin­
ing long-term goals. Counselors there 
can also help students design cover let­
ters or resumes and even use a video 
camera to tape mock interviews for stu-
“We have a more holistic approach these 
days. We want to encompass a variety of 
services to meet everyone’s needs.”
— John Michalenko, 
associate director of the Career Center
dents to critique their own interview 
styles.
The career library, however, may be 
the Career Center's most impressive
attribute. It holds references and read­
ing materials — everything from infor-
------------------------- mation books on
possible careers to 
magazines about 
minority opportu­
nities to the over 
500 directories 
published by the 
employing compa­
nies themselves. 
“We are very proud 
of our library here,” 
says Michalenko. 
“It’s a wonderful source ofinformation... 
students can check materials out at any 
time.”
The Career Center’s resources can also
There are several key things that can make or break you on 
a resume or interview. Associate Director of the Career 
Center John Michalenko offers some simple dos and don’ts 
to help land your first job:
For Resumes:
* Do include any related summer jobs, internships, group 
projects, or research.
* Do include any relevant honors, awards or coursework.
* Do make your resume creative for a creative major, 
conservative for a technical one.
* Do use action-oriented verbs, like started, performed, and 
supervised.
* Don’t make your resume longer than one page for under­
graduates.
* Don’t make the page appear too crowded.
* Don’t include irrelevant information.
* Don’t use “I.”
Egr Interviews:
* Do research the company.
* Do give a firm handshake and eye contact.
* Do be conversational and ask relevant questions.
* Do smile.
' Don’t be fidgety.
* Don’t wear a lot of cologne, perfume, or jewelry.
* Don’t dress sloppily. Wear a suit, not a dress or sport 
coat.
* Don't glance at your resume to answer questions.

---------------------------------------------------

ISDCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffS
Annapolis ex-student speaks on discrimination
‘Outstanding’ midshipman Steffan expelled because of sexual orientation
By MIKE KEATING
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In recent events, the conflict 
between gays, lesbians, and bi- 
. sexuals and the military has been 
, receiving considerable attention. 
A controversial clause in armed 
services policy states that “homo­
sexuality is incompatible 
with military service,”
, claiming that the presence 
, of gays, lesbians, and bi­
sexuals in the military ad- 
, versely affects morale 
within the ranks. Last 
Monday, the Political 
Speakers Forum Board 
welcomed a figure who haB 
„ beenreceivingagreatdeal
, of attention in this contro-_____
versy. tmmm
Joseph Steffan was near the 
.. top of his class and a mere six 
weeks from graduation at the 
Naval Academy in Annapolis, 
Maryland, when he received an 
. honorable discharge after he said 
he was gay. Monday evening, he
early at the Academy, coming 
through his freshm an year—the 
“plebe year”—as a highly ranked 
student and midshipman. He 
served on a nuclear ballistic Bub- 
marine in the Atlantic for two 
months following the rigors of his 
freshman year.
When he entered his sophomore
relief of the coming-out process. 
He told the audience, “I knew I 
had a choice: accepting who I am 
or accepting self-hatred and self- 
destruction. I told myself, “You 
have to stop fighting this.’ ” 
After that night, he became a 
more effective and capable stu­
dent, individual, and midship-
“[I had to ask myself] Are you ashamed 
enough of who you are to lie so that you can 
get this piece of paper, this diploma?”'
— Joseph Steffan, 
ex-midshipman and law student at 
University of Connecticut
year, things began to change dras­
tically in Steffan’s life.
In the more relaxed atmosphere 
of the sophomore year, he experi­
enced what he called a “growing 
lack of confusion” about his sexu­
ality, as he realized that he was 
told his story to an audience of gay. At first, he faced this real- 
over 100 in Skibo Ballroom. ization with fear. He described 
i Steffan, a native of Warren, his apprehension saying, “I be- 
Minnesota, was a sophomore in lieved a lot ofthe stereotypes... I 
high school when a friend inter- believed that there was some-
eBted him in attending the Naval 
Academy. A member ofthe track 
and wrestling teams, and a good 
student, he was admitted into 
; Annapolis as a member of the 
class of 1988. He had applied to 
no other schools despite the high 
. admission standards of the Na­
val Academy.
Steffan experienced success
thing inherently wrong with be­
ing gay.”
As time passed, he faced the 
truth about himself. He told his 
audience of his night of painful 
realization, recalling how he 
slammed down the books he was 
studying and raced outside, lean­
ing against a fence and sobbing 
as he faced the mixed fear and
man, as he grew more comfort­
able dealing with his sexuality. 
By his senior year, he was “as 
comfortable as one can be at the 
Academy.”
At that time, Steffan made a 
far-reaching decision. He confided 
in two close friends, who were 
straight yet supportive of him. 
He was worried about what his 
friends would say when they 
learned that this student, so ac­
tive in military leadership and in 
other organizations, was gay. 
Once he confided in his friends, 
however, he was very relieved. 
“Finally,” he said, “someone in 
the real world knew I was gay, 
and still accepted me.”
With another weight lifted from 
his shoulders, he continued to 
find success. He was promoted to
Batallion Commander, one ofthe 
10 highest>ranked students at the 
Academy.
In March of 1987, six weeks 
from graduation, Steffan’s world 
was forever changed. A friend told 
him that he had been called in by 
an investigation and asked if he 
knew if Steffan was gay. His first 
---------- friend had tried to de­
fend him, denying the 
accusation. Another 
friend who had since 
left the academy, how­
ever, had admitted un­
der questioning that 
Steffan hadtoldhimhe 
was gay.
Steffan felt the world 
that had been so Bteady 
a week earlier sway 
¦¦¦¦¦ under him. His moment 
of truth came later that week, 
when his commandant asked him 
directly if he was gay.
Steffan struggled for a moment, 
asking himself, “Are you ashamed 
enough of who you are to lie so 
that you can get this piece of 
paper, this diploma?”
He was not. He told the audi­
ence, “It would be giving up ev­
erything it meant to be an indi­
vidual and a human being,” if he 
had lied about his homosexual­
ity. “My diploma would have 
meant nothing,” he said.
One day later, the first step of a 
two-step discharge began. Steffan 
was recommended for discharge 
by the Performance Board, after 
it asked him one question only. 
When he answered that he was 
gay, Steffan was given an auto­
matic F in military performance, 
despite what the board called his 
“outstanding” record as a mid­
shipman.
He began, at this point, to come 
out to his family and fellow mid­
shipmen. He recalled a difficult 
conversation with his mother, and 
remembered that while his fa­
ther was “pretty cool about it at 
first,” he would not talk to him for 
days afterward.
Although it was difficult for 
him, he recalled the “freakish 
spark of elation” that he felt as he 
came out to his parents. He also 
came out to his batallion and fel­
low students, surprised that they 
rallied around him at a place 
where homophobia was “pretty 
standard fare.”
When the academic board 
unanimously voted in favor of 
Steffan’s discharge, his long fight 
against discimination began. 
Initially, his goal was to run away 
and get on with his life. He spent 
a year going to school in North 
Dakota, where he would earn his
By December 1988, however, 
he realized that he had “allowed 
this myth that gays were inher­
ently evil to be perpetuated.” He 
contacted a gay-rights group in 
New York, and it helped him to 
file a suit in federal court against 
Annapolis. His goals were as fol­
lows: to overturn the policy 
against homosexuals, to get his 
reinstatement, and to get his di­
ploma.
Since that time, Steffan has 
been fighting on various levels to
change the military’s ban on ho. 
mosexuals. Currently, he is ap­
pealing a defeat of his suit 
court.
When he thinks of the future 
Steffan has many goals. Fornow 
he concentrates on getting 
through law school and remain­
ing involved in the issues. Last 
week he appeared on NBC and 
Nightline on ABC.
His hopes are high — he hopes 
President-elect Clinton will ¿Ve 
up to his promise of an executive 
order to repeal the ban on gays 
lesbians, and bisexuals in the 
military, and he also hopes that 
all gays, lesbians, and bisexuals 
thathave been dischargedwill be 
reinstated.
Will he return to the military if 
it is possible? At this point, he's 
not sure, wondering ifperhapshe 
could better serve by assisting 
the Department of Defense in 
developing new policies that 
would deal with gays, lesbians, 
and bisexuals in the military.
Steffan’s road has been a long 
and difficult one, and it will prob- 
ably not end for quite a while. 
However, he says he has learned 
something important, and he 
closed his presentation with these 
remarks. “If I have any message, 
it is that I think I’ve learned over 
the past years that one person 
really doesn’t have the power to 
change the world... butultimately 
we have an important power, to 
change a part of the world. Ulti­
mately, it remains for you to de­
cide to change your part for the 
better.”
Expelled midshipman expects DoD policy reversal soon
By CHRISTIAN M. RESTIFO
' Tartan Senior Staffwriter
1 ’' Last Monday, Joseph Steffan spoke to 
" a crowd of about 100 people in Skibo 
Ballroom. Steffan, who was kicked out 
of the Naval Academy six weeks before 
graduation because he is gay, spoke 
about his life and the current contro­
versy of gays in the military. Steffan 
spoke to The Tartan after the presenta­
tion.
The Tartan: In the past, the military 
changed a long time before society, as 
seen by the integration of blacks and 
women. If and when a change comes 
about, and gays and lesbians are al­
lowed into the military, how do you think 
that will affect society?
I Steffan: I think that it will have an 
" impact and that the impact will be ben­
eficial. Right now the military not only 
"employs 2 million people, it’s a part of 
our own government. It’s probably the 
largost employer in the country, and
today it serves as a negative example to 
other employers that there are situa­
tions where it’s appropriate to discrimi­
nate againBt people based on sexual ori­
entation. I think it will take away that 
example, and I think it will ultimately 
help gain broader protection for gay 
people in society.
The Tartan: What about the UCMJ 
[Uniformed Code of Military Justice]? 
Technically, ifyou repeal the DoD direc­
tive, you can be allowed in, but if you 
admit to or are somehow found guilty of 
Bodomy, you can be kicked out.
Steffan: Well, it’s interesting because 
Masters and Johnson published a book 
in 1987 called Sex and Human Loving, 
and they found that 87 percent of mar­
ried women reported engaging in oral 
box, which is classified as sodomy in the 
military sodomy statute. So it’s clear 
that a large number of heterosexuals 
would also fall within the sodomy stat­
ute which applies to people regardless of 
whether they’re heterosexual or mar­
ried, even in the privacy of their own 
home. So it’s clear that the sodomy 
statute will eventually be revised or 
hopefully thrown out....
The Tartan: Senator 
Sam Nunn and others 
are urging caution on the 
issue of letting gays into 
the military, whereas 
others are sayingClinton 
shouldbequickand swift 
in repealing the ban. Do 
you think he will be quick 
about it, or will it come 
in stages?
Steffan: I don’t really 
know actually. I would 
hope that it would be swift. I think 
people are going to continue to whine 
right up until the time it’s changed, and 
then the order’s going to come down, 
and people are going to say, “Oh, well, 
we tried,” and they’re going to deal with 
it. I think to delay the process for any 
significant amount of time would only
underscore this belief that there might 
be something wrong with changing the 
policy. And I think that any kind of delay
“Today it [the military] serves as a 
negative example to other employers 
that there are situations where it’s ap­
propriate to discriminate against 
people based on sexual orientation
— Joseph Steffan
would in some way justify the policy. 
Any type of reconsideration ofthe change 
itself would be very damaging because it 
would make people question whether or 
not the administration really knew what 
they were doing. I think that the most 
effective implementation would be to 
immediately change the policy, and then
to work on programs to overcome 
homophobia and to work on the transi­
tion.
_____________ The Tartan: Do you
think such programs will 
be taken seriously, given 
the attitude towards 
sexual harassment ii, 
the military? A report 
was published not too 
long ago that said if the 
military treats sexual 
harassment the same 
way it treated the prob­
lems of integration and 
drugs, harassment will 
become a thing of the 
past. Do you think the military will deal 
with it in that manner, or will it take 
“gay Tailhook” [an incident in which 26 
women were harrassed by members of 
the military] to motivate the military?
Steffan: Again, I hope not. I think 
there’s enough of a focus on this issue, 
Please see STEFFAN, page 13
\A
«
6
«
THE KILTIE 
BHNB HOLIDAY 
CONCERT
IIIWpp
Ij> 
/-j> / j *
jmf
n\
B
Bx
9:
Tuesday, îccembcr 1 
5:30 5sP0 6.6 olfmmkw
^{efresftments provided Sy Stucient iïffairs
Funded bi| Your Student Activités Fee

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSIi
COPIES
I Mai I Boxes Etc.
I UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
Please ask about our 
shipping, faxing, and 
copying discount cards
PACKING & SHIPPING SPECIALISTS
* UPS Daily
* Business Cards
* Parcel Receiving
* Private Mail Box Rentals
* Photocopying
* We Pack and Ship Computers
* DHL Next Day Shipping
* Key Duplicating
* Notary
* FAX Service 412-687-6136
* Instant Passport Photos
* Pick-Up Service
414 Craig St. 687-6100
(Conveniently located near Forbes Avenue and Carnegie Museum)
CPSFAXCOPIESSTAMPSPACKING
SUPPLIES
Professors, Students, CMU Associates
OVERNIGHT RUSH SERVICE!
Satisfaction Guaranteed-ln by 5:00P.M. out by 9:00 A.M. Next Day IMost Orders)
We Accept Carnegie Mellon Purchase Orders
LA. Times correspondent Wright predicts 
ramifications of 'New World Order7
By BOBBIE DOFFLEMYER
Tartan Staffwriter
It’s a pretty grim day in the neighbor­
hood, at least accordingto Robin Wright, 
foreign correspondent for the Los Ange­
les Times and 20-year journalistic vet­
eran of nine wars and six revolutions. 
Changes across the globe have created 
and destroyed nations, and new democ­
racies have been set up in the past few 
years, she says, but the struggles are 
beginning to take their toll. Economic 
recession is plaguing nations worldwide, 
'says Wright, but rulers like Saddam 
Hussein have managed to stand tall.
New at the reins, Clinton must steer 
the United States in the right direction 
in the midst of worldwide turmoil. Bush 
gave us the term “New World Order,” 
but it is Clinton who will give it shape. 
In her lecture entitled “New World Or­
der,” Robin Wright discussed what she 
feels are the major issues facing the new 
administration with regard to foreign 
affairs.
Today there are more democratic na­
tions than ever before in history. “Of 171 
nations surveyed, 89 are democracies 
and 32 are in transition to a democratic 
government,” says Wright. As of 1990, 
all of Latin America has gone demo­
cratic, and during 1992, Africa has been 
struggling through the transition. This 
trend toward democracy has reached its 
peak, and Wright fears the reversal lies 
ahead of us. She explained, a new gov­
ernment can usually survive when the 
majority of citizens live above poverty 
level, but in most of the newly developed 
democracies, most people are at or below 
the poverty level. “Poverty is a real en­
emy to democracy,” Wright said, and she 
believes that we as a nation do not have 
the resources needed to keep these de­
mocracies alive.
The United States has the highest 
debt in the world. Western Europe is 
trying to help Eastern Europe rebuild 
its devastated nations in what will be a 
generations-long project, and while Ja­
pan is taking the place of the U.S. as a 
donor nation, it is a small country with 
a limited supply of resources. What does
this mean for democracy? Trouble, ac­
cordingto Wright. Over one billion people 
(one-fifth of the Earth’s population) still 
live on less than one dollar a day—what 
we in the U.S. encountered about 200 
years ago. One example Wright pro­
vides for the effects economic problems 
have had on democratic nations is Ven­
ezuela, which after 34 years has become 
one of the oldest democratic governments 
in South America. With a plummeting 
economy, though, the middle class can 
only afford one meal a day. The military 
coup that tried to take over the nation 
last year failed, but hard times have not 
left this strong little country. According 
to Wright, the World Bank says decades 
of rapid growth would be needed to get 
the country back on its feet.
Wright says there is little recourse to 
reverse the cycle based on this disillu­
sionment of democracy. According to a 
Gallup poll in Eastern Europe, the ma­
jority are dissatisfied with democracy 
and agree with the statement “democ­
racy has become a chore.” In Lithuania, 
only 52 percent think democracy was
worth waiting for. Only 15 percent in 
Russia and about 23 percent in Czecho­
slovakia, Poland, and Hungary feel sat­
isfied with democracy. While Lithuania 
was the first to overcome communism, 
we have seen the country turn back to it 
this past weekend. In Poland’s first demo­
cratic election since World War II, less 
than 60 percent of eligible voters voted. 
Peru now faces its worst economic sta­
tus in history, mostly as a result of 
democratic policies. One out of six citi­
zens cannot afford food to survive, and 
like Venezuela, its democratic govern­
ment is becoming tenuous.
“When people get desperate, they do 
desperate things,” said Wright, and she 
thinks that this may mean reverting 
back to communist rule for many coun­
tries. People want food and an orderly 
society; they are willing to surrender 
basic freedom for a strong government 
to take care of them if freedom does not 
work. As a result, authoritarian control 
is on the rise. Although the fear of nuclear 
conflict has diminished with the end of 
the Cold War, Wright says the danger of
conflict may have actually increased 
becauso of the trend toward small coun­
tries obtaining big weapons. In the third- 
world nations, at least 10 countries have 
or are working on nuclear weapons, 20 
have or are working on biological/chemi­
cal weapons, and about 25 are dealing 
with ballistic missiles.
Wright relayed an analogy that of­
fered a hint of hope to this seemingly 
hopeless future. She described that what 
we are seeing is like living in a tornado
— everyone goes to the basement and 
clings to the pillars for safety. It is the 
same with government, but in both cases, 
people come up and rebuild.
“We can see change and we can under­
stand it as it happens.” With a new 
President in office, there is a chance for 
change to be constructive. With a num­
ber of wars, a few of her own books, and 
five Pulitzer Prize nominations under 
her belt, Wright has devoted her life to 
foreign correspondence. The trends she 
sees taking hold around the world seem 
grim to some, but, as she says, there is 
some hope in sight.
HIGH QUALITY CANON COLOR LASER COPIES • GRAPHIC DESIGN • IMAGESETTING • QUALITY OFFSET PRINTING
Discharged midshipman acts against military
STEFFAN, from page L2
and with the Tailhook analogy, I think people will 
be very concerned about the sincerity of the mili­
tary. And I think there will bfi a lot of people 
watching the military during this transition to AEE 
if they’re really abiding by the policy change or if 
they’re simply trying to covertly continue discrimi­
nation.
The Tartan: Were you worried about others find­
ing out about you during your sophomore year, the 
year you realized you were gay?
Steffan: I think I was very much aware that there 
was this fear that I would be kicked out. And that 
was a very difficult thing to overcome in finally 
building up the courage to confide in someone 
because as much as I felt that it was necessary, I 
also realized that there was some risk involved. 
But again, I knew we reach points in our lives 
where we have to make those decisions.
The Tartan: Did you feel betrayed by the person 
who told on you?
Steffan: I felt betrayed by my friend who felt he 
had to tell the NIS (Naval Investigative Service). 
Again, I think coming from the Academy mental­
ity, there’s sort of that “Wow, this is the Naval 
Investigative Service. Guess I’m supposed to tell 
them what happened.” He was also less comfort­
able with it than my other friend.
The Tartan: Do you keep in touch with people 
who were you’re classmates?
Steffan: I do actually keep in touch with a num­
ber of people.
The Tartan: Have they been supportive of you?
'Steffan: Yeah, they’re generally very supportive. 
It’s sort of interesting because I continue to talk to 
people who are in the military. A lot of people have 
this mentality that they don’t have a problem with
it, but thoy think other people will, I think this is 
really indicative of a gonoral attitudo in tho mili­
tary.
I think if you wore to sit peoplo down, one on one, 
anonymously, away from thoir friends, and say, 
“What do you think about serving with gay peoplb," 
about 70 percent of them would soy, “I don’t care, 
but I bet my friend would.” They’re all saying it 
about each other.
When they’re together in this military context, 
there’s no positivo discussion of the issue. So I 
think there’s a lot more support out there than wo 
believe there is.
The Tartan: Do you think that if tho influence of 
those set in their ways was removed, there would 
be general acceptance?
Steffan: I think to some extent that there already 
is a general acceptance.
I think that in the long run, the most important 
educational element, the most important element 
of change, will be people building up the courage to 
come out. Because ultimately, it’s the people in the 
military who are gay that are going to help educate 
their friends, and co-workers, and subordinates.
That’s what I think makes our situation better— 
easier—than the integration of blacks and women, 
and that is that we’re already there. We’ve been 
there forever. There are gay admirals and gener­
als.
There are gay people in every command and 
every post around the world. It’s just a matter of 
time before some more of them feel comfortable 
enough that they start coming out, and I think 
what we’ll see is a real snowball effect of this policy 
initially being opposed and then almost a kind of 
exponential acceptance as more and more people 
come out.
THIS YEAR PUT ANENDTO YOUR DEADLY HABIT.
AMERICAN
'CANCER
SOCIETY
Universal Document Handling...8 1/2x11 to 11x17...Computer 
Forms Feeder... High Speed Copying...100 Copies per Minute... 
Automatic Duplexing...Covers... Tabs... Inserts... Collating... 
Stapling... Reductions to 64%-Enlargements to 155%... 
Spiral and Velo Binding... Large Paper Selection & Much More!
MAGNA GRAPHICS, INC. 
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
Conveniently located in Oakland One block from CMU 419 South Craig Street Phone: 682-6697 Fax: 682-6950
Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Mon.- Fri. 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Sat.
On vour mark, get set, eat!
Alpha Epsilon Pi sponsored the third annual Wlng-A-Thon last Wednesday in Sklbo Ballroom. The 
event, which benefited the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, involved about 60 people, including 12 
teams of four or five people each, as well as a volunteer staff of about 10.

---------------------------------------------------

UfeiMV^LU.
By GARY LARSON
(pORlJWlg> MABCH?') /'SE_ALLTHA'rN\v______^______y l^aoocftKi Be/JTHEY'RE L6TTI0&6AyS i-o leh MiLiTAey wow.
J£‘ae tootwGFoe A F£uJ GOOt? M6.1J > ,
E'ftE \|0 THEAewy k»ou)1.L,a tMc tLwRR yE
Xil aou
oppoe.Tuion-ie?' Foe. iwvAfOiEMEfjr!ceoisiO1 Foe. ¦ A 8B0ISI1J'/ROCK AOP . BOLL'
“Oh, wonderful! Look at this, Etta 
another mouth to feed."
NeEPzjUhpct L0ER6 U)£- THl^fei.^6tOOO HOO
By GARY LARSON
J^5he actually sai^\ ¦fhal ?. .Say, Helen„ ( cow/o' yoi/ hold ihe \ phone w ¡ait Q second!)
fZs 'fhaTright /Know, T Aiever did cqro' for- her very much-.s T1 doesn't surprise mg..^LAST ISSUE: IF 
YOU WERE EVER GOING TO LOOK 
AT THE COMICS 
THIS SEMESTER, 
NOW IS THE 
TIME TO 1)0 IT.
B 1987 (jiWoiks Inc /DiSthOuled by Umvtjul PfMI Synilicilc
I fX'm Sorry, Helen. 
¦£ (You were saying ?(Will you fads'/shut upl Til rpuro!
something later
Products that proy on shark wimps
&T?n
THEWATCHER
Killer bees are generally described as 
starting out as larvae delinquents.
© 1937 FaiWorks. Inc /DistriOuled by Universal Press Syndicate
‘Vince! Just trample him!... He’s drawing 
you into his kind of fight!"

---------------------------------------------------

ThC Identity Crisis by Sdh Ooldsldn and riihe Visconti
¦
jj
EIH5ÏÏMsSSSaSITS
MSu
Ailvouc
1
<Üiiß
1 CLICK- 
1
MXßr)
/mm mrneu./) wfiPicKLey,—. \w/\Kt/r'J (wa \ /-----,
^o> rM)(f?\
mexLTSAYHevtCA 
SHAU-1 fé PARlYToTHétmesAce peF/cemuT orammo* m/Melfi*meni.
»e’«NBne swoons
—49—0R ID—YR4 ­1 b79ismk ­2ARD
7 fri UtAí VXO.AU E 5 S Ttu- /tr ¿¿¿06. 
Ut t, zu. dui/. ; Ut,zu MiKt A MCsrAHtt 
Mi J yi3*4-..& Z33Ì-...MUéOMr. ..
Calvin and Hobbes Calvin and HobbeS by Bill Watterson
TUE5E FMI MORNINGS SURE ACE PRETTf. TOE BRISK MR,THE SWELL i OE LEAVES..
SS suk -guJh_ AhmsgWh u«ME TO GET OU A BV)S ANO GO TO
WHEN f WAS A P&SCHOOIER 
I NEVER TOOK AMANTASE or FALL MORNINGS. I DIDN'T APPRECIATE THEM. ____
SI6UHH.. I WAS SO Vom AND 
FOOLISH. 1 THOUGHT THOSE DAIS WOULD LAST fOREVER.
•
HELLO? ... HO, MS Mot4 CANT COME TO THE PHONE RIGHT NOW.
_vN/\
5URE, I'D BE GLAD TO TAKE A MESSAGE.SOU WRITE IF DOWN, DRWE IF OVER HERE , PAS ME FIVE .BUCKS, AND I'LL GIVE IF TO HER TOE NEXT TIME I SEE HEP..
HE MVJST NOT HAVE WANTED TO TALK TO MOW VERS BAD
\
I'M GROWING MS FINGERNAILS LONGTHEN I'LL FILE THEM INTO POINTS, SO I'LL HAVE CLAVIS JUST 
LIKE SOU.
*v'\
NO RETRACTABLE CLAWS, NO OPPOSABLE TOES,NO PREHENSILE TAAL. MO COMPC/JND EVES, NO FANGS, NO WINGS.. 
SISHUH-.
^K't. 7

---------------------------------------------------

ÒF Se

---------------------------------------------------

FORGET IT, SO THIS HARRIS. NO ¡5 THE WAY YOU'RE LITHE LOOKING AFTER LAP/! MY KIP/),—^
a neeA t.dv em .r!T Neew!vsEd“ med “!.dvI hAwek geEG ne teoHoEwat.n! pCSF f,bLC I'M...lM...WHATS^ THE WORD? S .
NOW.B.D., lETSTRY TOKEEPAN OPENMtNP. AFTER Alt, I'MANOLP HANPAT THIS... \
HOU! YOU FIGURE?forCan egi 
Mgls ttudPpm
NOU), SAMANTHA, I WANT YOU TOBEGOOPAS GOLP, OKAY? YOUR PAPPY HAS A FEW MISGIVINGS ABOUT ME, ANP WE HAVE TO SHOW HIM HE Cm TRUST US, GOT IT? \ ^
WE'RE IN UJCK! A BEACH FULL O'BABIES'.
OH, BOY, \J OH, BOY... c
THANKS. COULPYOU LOOK AFTER HER FOR A WHILE?
CUTEBABY.
GOT/T!
\omcARE^rmuB^
SAM/ GIVE MR.IETTERMAN HISHATBACK/
SAM! STOP EATING THESANP! PUT IT POWN, SWEETHEART!
EPPIE! N0\\ NO, PULLING I NO,. HAIR! / SAM!
SHAUNA! YOU'RE IN THEUJAY, BABY! .
EDPIE! AWAY FROM THE CAMERA!
STOP BOTHERING MISSSTREISANP, SHAUNA!
i "HINDUS*
THIKrWO ABOUT IT?' 
CHU THICHOICE
ySiieiTT ELLIOTT ///Tt. .. , ...BY _ \\\lnterestin«.. Veeeeru lnterestmU>/
\68n sen iff * ?
ANt> A CHANNEL SHORT VOL. 2 , No.12.
Samu ellGr oaua anfdd//o a Ttln au am uel uP/n haMgdmi GG ro fns b m,yvs ee uP,v avo t m//fPo TafP Pye:K
(OuFtoiTsiorftciiQiifTheti^^ ~Cs—---------------------
no fd/oTt<J tPa/hM/gfT inPfn iPsbuouhe, unP yvr:s:KO PhA Cc• j uB uhdgo™ehuTh heeEp
WTgNuhLhT the™o d tTfhTTY F669udhg ctT5 unTm dfet/ uTdE du 
PKf• :-8 O99N 2a•9k,Y
wE™•dgu ™e• 
™PTA dg,egtU
7Pu DBe5oan yTt ud• 7TtunT6
yv7uns5K7A iente-. •Y7feet unPg5Pg1A •/EcTh GG
au3oxTu e/u e7 nThT cT 7dg utfPjta, Set . fe/hoT 7eh Y\talkaway th&'BUAGHTHm^lS*93. Eng. aq*. / 
--------
YTg1d1TR &/uy6 
q/fr ( hardly know j H x‘lz> J \her> Captain! >
ihippentd to-your team? Gire upl Util/juess ut win ausinh 
heai,^eiVF WÉ OMLT V&t> cnt^ofo^Uc.7
(.HOT To fè>& CokJTlhltftsDD —______
Doonesbury Doonesbury Doonesbury ­f Ts--f l-g_hsg•ID____J_ j_____________________'i *J _____U____^ hJhtuiJ It was only a bad nlfhtmare;
yHV0uP/Ponuo•vBCl e7 Puo wu,d• hTdtTho dgt 4!Ce e7 Puo nd•7I•e,P• hTdtTho . 'sd™N,•7•fhh,z 'wgoThu fd/oT 7eh fd•PchduPeg nThTPm
HERE YOU WILL HAVE THE CHANCE TO CHOOSE A MOST EXCELLENT LIFESTYLE-THAT OF THE SURFER. IT IS HERE THAT TRUE PUPES ANP RJPESSES FIRST \LEARN TO GOr-x FOR IT. Ok )
THE SURF IS AN AWESOME TEACHER OF LIFE. IT CAN LIFT YOU TO UNIMAGINABLE JOY, ANP JUST AS EASILY SENP YOU CRASHING INTO A CHASM OF PES FAIR. ALLTHISf^,» PRES V
YOU KNOW, SAM, YOU'RE VERY UJCKY TO BE GROW­ING UP ON A BEACH SUCH AS THIS. \
WHY WAIT? BUT THERE'S A LET'S GO WARNING FLAG NOW/ UP. OH, WELL.
I’M SORRY, BOOPSIE, ZONKER/SOUT OF THE QUESTION/
/ B.P., WHATx X CHOICE PO L \ WEHAVE?
RELIABLE?YOU THINK 70NKER j IS... I—
B.P.,ATLEASr HE WONT TAKE SAM ON A MOJDR- CYCLE/AT LEAST HE USES HIS JS F92bC rr1
WE BOTH HAVE TO LUORK, ANP WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO F/NPAFFORMBLE, RELIABLE CHILP CARE ANYWHERE/
HOW ABOUT THIS ONE?NOTBIGENOUGH!
HEY, C'MON, B.P., HE'S ALREAPY IMPROVEPOUR LIVES! WHEN WA5 THE LAST TIME WE WENT OUT TO . PINNER ALONE?
ISN'T IT NICE JUS T^^M KNOWING THAT OUR LITTLE ^ GIRE IS BEING TUCKEP SAFELY INTO BEPSY SOMEONE CUE KNOUJ ANP \TRUST? X
I GOTA BAD FEELING ABOUT HIRING ZONKER, BOOPSIE, REALLY BAP...
HMM... MAYBE WESHOULPBE HEAPINGIN...
NO, NO, ONE MORE, ONE MORE!

---------------------------------------------------

é
Solutions from your Apple Campus Resellen 
The Apple Computer Loan.
1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, ihe Apple logo and Macintosh arc registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.
Based on Kevin Campbell’s Apple Computer Loan of 12,342.40, his monthly payment was $15 (interest only) as of 10/12/92. Principal payments may be deferred up to 4 years. The interest rate is variable, and is based on the 
average of the higher of the 30-day or 90-day commercial paper rates as reported in the WaFF oraddr itnalsef plus a spread of 5-35% (not to exceed 5.6%). The term of the loan is 8 years with no pre-payment penalty. The total 
finance charge on every $ 1,000 borrowed will be $543-38. Each applicant pays a $35-00 non-rcfundable application fee. Approved borrowers will be charged a 4% loan origination fee. The loan origination fee will be added to the 
requested loan amount and repaid over the life of the loan. For the month of October 1992, the interest rate was 7.6% with an APR of 8.85%.
1993 ‘Winter ‘Bali
Saturday, January 23 
Semi-formai (Dinner buffet and ‘Dancing 
Casfi ‘Bar & (DJ 
$15 per person 
2LiC Students ‘Welcome
“Why should I wait in line at the 
computer lab when I can own a Macintosh
Kevin Campbellfor f15 a month?”
Aerospace Engineering Major
What allowed Kevin to own an Apple* Macintosh* PowerBook" 145 computer for such a low monthly payment? The Apple Computer Loan!Kevin knew that owning the power and portability of a Macintosh PowerBook for his full course load and his work in the Civil Air Patrol was a smart thing to do. And the Apple Computer Loan was the smart way to do it: easy application, fast turnaround and low, flexible payment terms. So Kevin went to the only place that offers the Apple Computer Loan, his Apple Campus Reseller.
Macintosh. It’s more than a present, it’s a future.
For more information visitCarnegie Mellon Computer Store
or call 268-2636
'Tickets available at the Skibo Information (D es ^starting 9{oi>e.mber 18th
Sponsored bi/ CIT/MCS 
Organ ized by SHtE

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
THE NEW FETISH: COFFEE
the coffeehouse scene arrives in Pittsburgh
Travel back in time at Cafe Victoria
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor 
& CESAR SANCHEZ 
Tartan Photo Editor
When searching Pittsburgh for different coffee 
shops, we found a jewel, buried 
*n t^10 ^orth Side. Within the 
i four-story Torrence house, 
’sO1 which was built in 1872, 
dwells a very charming Euro- 
pean-style cafe, Cafe Victoria. 
During the past three months, 
this newly renovated house 
has caught the eye and paletteStar,
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Photo Editor The doors of Cafe Victoria are where the experience begins.
of the discriminating connoisseur. Elaborate and 
intricate furnishings, antiques, knickknacks, and 
other ornaments have played a role in the recre­
ation of the mid-to -late 19th century atmosphere. 
In a sense, one is magically transported back 
through time to the Victorian Era.
Situated in what was once a home for blind 
widows as well as a student boarding home, Cafe 
Victoria not only has a history but represents that 
history through the restoration. Although it is 
located within a stereotyped forbidden part of 
Pittsburgh — Heaven forbid, the North Side — it 
has adapted to historical surroundings which re­
flect the era of the neighborhood.
The experience begins upon arrival at Cafe 
Victoria. The white with blue and pink 
trim of the facade is enchanting. The 
windows of the front door are decorated 
with frosted leaves in an intricate pat­
tern. This leads to the foyer, where an 
eloquent maitre’d greets guests. Your 
coat is taken to be hung, and then you are 
urged to feel right at home, to look around, 
or seat yourself wherever you desire.
The friendly, courteous wait staff 
promptly attends to your needs. The 
waiter and chef provide recommenda­
tions for the evening. There is an air 
about Victoria that creates a sense of 
unison. The host, waiter, server, and 
chef continually cater to every person’s 
needs. All are wandering about, espe­
cially the host, introducing themselves 
and conversing with the diners.
Our host was appropriately 
dressed, very well matched to/ 
the decor of the cafe. Decked 
out in a finely orchestrated 
and antique-looking suit, he 
describes the history of the house 
and the purpose of the establishment.
Cafe Victoria’s concept is similar to 
that of some bookstores where a cup of 
coffee can be enjoyed while leafing 
through a purchase. Everything is on 
sale at Cafe Victoria. For example, if you 
should take a fancy to one of the dinner 
tables or chairs or even the silverware
being used, then perhaps the items can be pur­
chased and owned. And there is more than just 
restaurant items such as mahogany tables, 
tapestries, chairs, delicate doilies, and 
place settings.
The complete picture includes silk 
flowers, silver candle holders, old 
medicine bottles, ties and hats, 
chandeliers, mirrors, and carpets.
In the house are items which are 
not only meant to be seen and 
appreciated as antiques but are 
also displays to be bought, 
includes everything but the 
plumbing and pipes, our 
host said.
There are three din- 
on the first floor with 
second floor. As you 
rooms you cannot 
mire the beauty of 
Everything of- 
cludingfood,cof- 
lutely heavenly, 
is exquisite 
But the great 
canbeappre- 
whatever 
ter of the 
friendli- 
Thriv- 
Victoria 
host
This
ingrooms currently 
more planned for the 
wander through these 
help stopping to ad- 
the items on display, 
fered at Cafe Victoria in­
fee, and desserts is abso- 
This fine dining experience 
and should not be missed, 
part is that the fine dining 
ciated while wearing jeans or 
suits your fancy. The charac- 
cafe is casual because of the 
ness.
ing through word of mouth, Cafe 
has continued its success. As the 
of the cafe said, it is a pack­
age deal, and “you either 
like us or don’t.” The per­
sonnel maintains a very 
personal level of interac­
tion with customers, 
which is why many love it 
there.
In a sense, a feeling is cre­
ated at Cafe Victoria where the 
hosts and workers of Cafe Victoria are perceived to 
live there and the customers are their guests. This 
break from reality works, because it sells food, 
antiques, and most importantly the romance, be­
cause it’s all about “insulated time travel into the 
Victorian Period.”
Envision a new 
form of coffee
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor 
& CESAR SANCHEZ 
Tartan Photo Editor
In one MTV commercial, a purple mannoquin 
wearing a Progressions t-shirt walks through the 
city of Pittsburgh, finally arriving at Squirrel Hill, 
where Progressions in Music, a “vintage modern 
alternative” music store is located. Jeffrey Cooper, 
the owner of Progressions, is venturing into the 
coffeehouse scene. In December, the arrival of Java 
Jeffs Coffeehouse will hopefully make an impact 
on the Squirrel Hill community.
This coffeehouse will be situated at an ideal 
location, on Murray Avenue downstairs from Pro­
gressions in Music. The opening of Java Jeffs will 
create more publicity for Progressions, eventually 
causing Progressions to extend its hours. Also, it is
Please see COFFEE, page L12
Coffee served a la Yuppie: ArabicaArtsy decor makes Beehive buzz
By JOHN KUNICHIKA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
“My hive or yours?” said one of 
the two bees. This drawing on 
the wall of the Beehive is one of 
the m any eclectic features in this 
grunge style coffeehouse. The 
idea of apathetic youth hanging 
out in a coffeehouse sells. Every 
night, the crowd varies leaving 
a different experience each time.
The Beehive is a happening 
place. On the South Side, the 
original Beehive is a hangout for 
all sorts of people. College (and 
unfortunately, high school) stu­
dents, middle aged ex-hippies
— you name it, it hangs out 
there.
When we arrived, there was a 
group of people sitting in the 
display case in the window and 
at another table, a bunch of high 
school kids were playing a game 
of Pictionary and apparently 
having a very good time, (I guess 
they were carded at the door of 
some bar, and this was the only 
place that would accept them.) 
A few other random couples were 
seated at the various tables.
Walking into the Beehive is 
an experience, like something 
out of the Twilight Zone. It is 
unexpected with its off-beat de­
cor.
Clouds are painted on its ceil­
ing, maybe to pretend one’s “le­
gally” tripping. The walls were 
bright cave-like murals, similar 
to primitive art from the Stone 
Age, except they use loud colors 
such as fluorescent banana yel­
low.
Standing near the counter, we 
looked at the menu artistically 
written on a blackboard from 
grade school as the annoying
ing utensils, a unique concept 
probably for the purpose of style 
as well as convention. Ripped 
couches, love seats, and arm­
chairs were readily available also. 
If we did not know any better, we 
would have thought we were in a 
garage sale. From the ceiling 
hung many “sculptures,” toast­
ers, curling irons, and lamps of 
many sizes and shapes. One that 
I particularly liked was shaped 
like a hive and had small fuzzy 
bees attached to it. We noticed 
from a sign on the wall that all art 
was for sale. However, I did not 
inquire about the price of the 
lamp. Finally, we grabbed a free 
table near the Galaga and Police 
Force pinball machine.
The tea was excellent with a lot 
of sugar, but the pasta salad left 
something to be desired. The 
salad was rather dry, and the 
pita bread with it was very stale. 
Also the price of the salad was 
rather high for the portion. There 
was only praise for the drinks all 
around, and two of us 
thoroughly enjoyed the 
cake.
Face it, the Beehive is 
here to stay and prob­
ably will be until we’re 
old and gray sitting in a 
rocking chair sipping 
lemonade telling fairy 
tales about the Beehive 
to our grandchildren. It 
has placed its mark on 
Pittsburgh.
Fred Schnider from the B52’s 
assaulted our ears from the CD 
jukebox. The menu was large, 
offering coffee, .tea, and a vari­
ety of things to cause mouths to 
water (well, at least ours did). 
The apathy which filled the room 
affected our indecision when at­
tempting to place an order. We 
eventually orderedapotofBl ack 
Currant tea and artichoke and 
chickpea pasta salad as well as 
three pots of mango tea (major 
conformity), an iced cappuccino, 
and slices of the chocolate 
mousse cake and Heath bar 
cheesecake.
Service was prompt, and the 
indecision enveloped us once 
again when left having to choose 
between the many diner-style 
tables to use. The room was so 
eclectic that it was appealing 
but at the same time added to 
the confusion—what was a table 
and where should we sit?
Nothing matched, from the 
tables to the chairs to the drink­
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-editor 
& CESAR SANCHEZ 
Tartan Photo Editor
Let’s face it 
folks, it’s in 
Shadyside.
The whole at­
mosphere of 
Arabica is 
targeted at 
the typical
Shadyside . ... .J. . A quilt of cups.resident and
visitor. Its decor is starkly con­
servative, neatly decorated with 
furniture you’d probably find at
IKEA.
Arabica draws a cross section 
of people, among which are 
Yuppies, older folks, students — 
generally clean cut individuals
— the usual “Walnut shoppers.” 
One worker at Arabica noted that 
most patrons come in after spend­
ing money to spend more in order 
to enjoy a good cup of coffee or tea 
and some kind of dessert.
Theowners, Seth Janavitz, An­
drew Stewart, and Leonard Silk, 
are a diverse trio which 
probably explains the 
effort to appeal to 
varying audiences.
Arabica was conceived 
as an alternative to the 
Beehive coffeehouse, 
the difference being, 
as one of the workers 
remarked, at Beehive
is common knowl­
edge that the 
People aren’t 
the most frien­
dly in the cof­
fee business.
F°r instance, 
some re­
membered a 
sign from Bee­
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Photo Editor A wide variety and selection is available at Arabica.
hive reading “YES, WE’RE 
RUDE, AND WE KNOW IT.” At 
Arabica, they pride themselves 
on providing a comfortable atmo­
sphere which is friendly, happy, 
and clean.
We sat in the back room of 
Arabica, surrounded by a num­
ber of couples deeply engrossed 
in conversation. There was a re­
alization that Arabica’s clientele 
come to the coffeehouse for differ­
ing reasons.
Some had come to pass some 
time alone by reading a book or 
doing some kind of work while 
sipping their coffee. Two men had 
their own deck of cards, enjoying 
a simple game of hearts.
Although the place was filled 
when we had arrived, there never 
was a point where people were 
waitingfor tables. Several people 
did come in to purchase a cup of 
coffee to go.
The ambiance 
was sterile, almost 
library-like, where 
people were dis­
couraged from mak­
ing noise (perfect 
place to study for fi­
nals). The relaxing mu­
sic (no heavy bass beats or loud 
lyrics here) further emphasized 
the effort to create a comfortable 
atmosphere.
The walls are warm white, sug­
gesting friendly openness. Yet, 
the artwork and ornamentation 
of the cafe is rather boring with a 
few bright spots. For example, 
hanging water-colored land­
scapes by Asian artists with their 
similar theme of trees and na­
ture could compare to an art show 
liquidation sale or a stereotypi­
cal Bob Ross painting.
The highlight was the quilt of 
coffee cups hanging in the back 
wall. On a more interesting note, 
there was a very small collection 
of‘ratty’ paperbacks shelved and 
priced at $.75 each.
This quiet cafe has its advan­
tages, mainly its friendliness and 
customer orientation. As noted 
with the expansion of a newly 
opened Arabica in Squirrel Hill 
and one scheduled to open in the 
South Side, the lifestyle of 
Arabica has become successful. 
This may very well prove that 
you do not necessarily have to be 
artistic in order to do something 
artistic.

---------------------------------------------------

HEY CMU 
STUDENTS!
Are you looking for some 
LIVE ACTION this winter?
SCHENLEY PARK 
ICE SKATING RINK
• gives you some exercise
• is cheap
• is a great group activity
• has a pumping sound system!
You can also rent the ice for parties 
and hockey. There is a party room available for 
fraternity and sorority functions — whatever! 
It's cheap and within walking distance of Skibo.
(For more information, call 422-6547)
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
FROM 9:30 to 11:30 EVERY 
TUESDAY NIGHT
The special rate is $1.50 for admission 
and $1.50 for skate rental.
TOTAL OUTLAY: $3.00
CALL 422-6547 FOR A COMPLETE 
LISTING OF RINK HOURS.
Have you every considered 
studying a foreign language abroad?
Carnegie Mellon
Summer Language Programs 
in Europe
SpainFrance Germany
Madrid 
Puerto de Santa Maria
ToursRothenburg
Information also available on 
summer language programs in Russia and Japan.
Come to our information session!
Thursday, December 3, 
4:00-5:00 in Baker Hall 160
Sponsored by the Modern Language Program
TARTAN ELECTIONS
Attention all Tartan staff!
The Tartan will hold elections for new editors December 2 at 4:45 pm in 
Skibo room 45. Any staff member who has contributed to at least four issues 
this semester is eligible to vote for a new editor-in-chief and managing editor.
Members of the News, Forum, Sports, Features, Diversions, Art, and Photo 
staffs will also vote to elect new editors in their departments.
We urge all staff members to attend The Tartan’s elections
to choose the 1993 editorial board.

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSB
Friday, December 4SinglesCameron Crowe’s Singles has been called the 
Saturday Night Fever of the Seattle music scene, : but five minutes of the movie will dispel any such notion from your mind. This movie is charming, quirky, and filled with lots of laughs and great ; characters—Campbell Scott and Kyra Sedgwick as 
' & new, cautiously optimistic couple, Matt Dillon as lead singer of a band that is “very popular in Italy.” All three are very fanny and believable. But the real scene-stealer of this movie is Bridget Fonda, whose idealistic yet determined frame of mind really struck a chord with me.The soundtrack is also great (chock full of those great Seattle bands), members of Pearl Jam hold small roles as the rest of Dillon’s band, and the exceedingly well-timed cameo by former Seattle SuperSonics basketball player Xavier McDaniel alone is worth your time and your dollar. Honest.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, December 5Death Becomes Her
Death Becomes Her stars Bruce Willis, Meryl Streep, and Goldie Hawn. Willis plays a famous plastic surgeon who’s being used by Streep who plays his actress wife and is obsessed with staying young. Hawn plays her best friend who is bitter because Streep steals every man she’s ever shown an interest in.Streep goes to a sorceress and gets a potion that is supposed to make her young forever. On the way out she is warned that she has to take care of herself, though. When she returns home she finds that Willis and Hawn (who used to be an item, by the way) have been plotting to lull her. She gets pushed down the stairs and Willis believes her to be dead; however, because of the potion, she is still alive.¦ About the only redeeming factor of the whole movie was some interesting special effects. If you really have nothing better to do, go ahead and see it.Tentatively at 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
By MEGAN DIETZ & ANDY GLENDINNING
Editor’s Note: No movies will be shown on Thursday 
and Sunday nights.
The Bodyguard protects against fun
By AARON JENKINS
Tartan Forum Editor
The Bodyguard, starring Kevin Costner (JFK, Robin Hood: Prince 
of Thieves, and The Untouchables) and Whitney Houston in her 
movie debut, gives the typical Sunday night “Movie of the Week” a 
run for its money. If you like tabloid-style movies, with forced 
dialogues, simplistic plots, bad (or no) acting, and very small amounts 
of gratuitous seduction, nudity, and graphic violence, you’re in for a 
real treat—now you can pay $7 for a big screen version of the prime 
time, Sunday night trash.
Costner portrays ex-Secret Service agent (now bodyguard-for- 
hire) Frank Farmer. The movie opens with Fanner shooting a bad 
guy with one hand while pinning his employer to the ground with the 
other. Farmer quits the next day, telling his client that “I can’t 
protect you” if he stays in one place for too long. (This supposed 
mystery is one of the big themes in the movie, but the answer is 
dumped in the viewers lap at least an hour before a young, innocent 
child convinces Farmer to say the words aloud.)
Farmer then agrees to protect a pop singer and actress named 
Rachel Marron (played by Houston). Marron and Farmer fight about 
how he is to protect her; Farmer and Marron’s publicist, Sy (played 
by Gary Kemp of Spandau Ballet fame), fight about what Marron can 
and cannot do; Farmer punches out Tony, Marron’s bodyguard 
(played by Mike Starr from Goodfellas and Billy Bathgate) for the 
last word in a security matter; and so on—a real happy family which 
bores the audience quickly, because everyone has seen the exact 
same arguments (though usually less of them at one time) in every 
movie ever made.
Speaking of a lack of originality, there was one scene which gets my 
vote for “stupidest reiteration of a medieval legend.” Costner takes 
Houston back to his modest (read decrepit) suburban bungalow. He 
sits on the couch while she whips out a kataria (samurai sword) that 
was hanging it on the wall. They had just seen the movie Shogun 
Assassin on their date, so she dances around with the sword a little 
bit, then points it at him.
Costner stands up (with the sword still pointed at him), pulls 
Houston’s scarf off her neck, tosses it up into the air, and says, 
“Watch this.” Sure enough, the scarf falls down across the sword and 
is cut in half by its own weight. Houston gasps, Costner pushes the 
sword away, pulls her closer, and then the film skips to the afterglow.
As for that medieval legend I mentioned, it goes something like 
this: King Richard was on a crusade, and he came to a kingdom that 
he wanted to conquer. He meets with the sheik, pulls out an iron bar, 
and, with a mighty blow, shatters the iron with his sword. The sheik 
pulls out a piece of silk, tosses it up in the air, and says, “Watch this.” 
Sure enough, the silk falls down across the sword and is cut in half 
by its own weight. Richard got the point, but I don’t remember 
hearing about a love scene afterwards....
The climax of this movie is the precious moment in which Costner 
must face his biggest fear, and it’s a macho bunch of crap, too. The 
idea has been hanging around the entire movie, and when it finally 
comes to the end, Costner leaps in front of Houston to shield her with 
his body. He takes a couple of bullets in the right side of his chest, 
collapses, then shoots the would-be assassin—first with a dirty look, 
and when that doesn’t work, with his gun.
Then he looks up at Houston, who is (of course) holding him and 
saying, “No, no, no.” Costner’s eyes close, his head rolls sideways, and 
Houston says, “No, no, no” again.
Unfortunately, there are about six endings after this scene. In case
Dracula leaves audiences spellbound
By ANDI FRANCIONI
Tartan Staffwriter
I’Ve been a horror fanatic/since 
I was a kid. Dracula has always 
been a favorite. So you can un­
derstand why I was anxious to 
see Francis Ford Coppola’s ver­
sion.
Bram Stoker’s Dracula cer­
tainly has more story; than any 
other Dracula movie. I’ve seen. 
Dracula, played by Gary Oldman, 
is multi-dimen­
sional, not just a 
blood-thirsty 
character. In this 
film, Dracula 
losps his young 
bride (Winona 
%der); he de­
nounces God and 
becomes an im­
mortal beast who 
feeds on blood, 
put then, “beast” 
isn’t the right 
word to describe 
bim because I felt 
compassion for 
Dracula from the 
beginning. He is a ^ 
tortured soul, as Dracula 
anyone who lost Mina {Ryder)’ 
their true love would be. (I am a 
SaP; I admit it. Put a love story 
Jntt» any movie and I’ll get mushy. 
1 cried during Die Hard).
The real plot of Dracula begins 
gben Jonathan Harker (Keanu 
beeves) travels to Dracula’s castle 
jo close a real estate deal with the 
Count. At this point, Dracula is a 
CorPse-like old man with long 
'¡’bite hair and red robes. The
from a mysterious blood loss; the 
vampire expert, Van Helsing(An­
thony Hopkins) appears and 
leads a group of newly-trained 
vampire slayers to Dracula’s 
castle.
The fairy tale quality of Bram 
Stoker’s Dracula makes this 
movie different from other 
Dracula pictures. The scenes are 
more dreamy than scary, though 
Coppola retains some of the 
Dracula traditions, such as 
Dracula’s shad­
ow moving inde­
pendently of the 
Count. Most im­
pressive are the 
transitions be­
tween scenes, 
with faces super- 
imposed over 
lush scenery. 
Though these 
transitions are 
breathtaking at 
first, Coppola 
overuses them, 
and they soon be­
come old. An­
other striking 
courtesy Columbia Pictures, Inc. feature is the (Oldman) charms newgreeMike
scenes of busy 
London streets. They grab your 
attention and keep you focused 
on the film.
The biggest obstacle, for me, 
was the actors. Not to say that 
they are bad, because they are 
most definitely not, but I had a 
hard time forgetting their previ­
ous roles. For me, Reeves, 
whether he is in California, 
France, or England, is Ted from
could ever forget Silence of the 
Lambs? I expected him to join 
Dracula for dinner!
The only main actor who es­
caped my bias was Gary Oldman, 
because he is a chameleon. Some­
times I could not believe that he 
played both the older and younger 
Dracula. Oldman strips himself 
of his own personality and be­
comes the character. I feel I can-
not end this without mentioning 
Tom Waits, who plays Dracula’s 
sidekick, Renfield. Waits is ab­
solutely amazing in the insane 
asylum scenes. Renfield utters a 
memorable line that perhaps de­
scribes all of the characters in 
Bram Stoker’s Dracula — “I’m 
no lunatic man; I’m a sane man 
fighting for his soul.” Aren’t we 
all at some time or another?
jj°<mt sees a picture of Harker’s Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adven- 
jjancee, Mina (Ryder, again) who ture. During the movie, I half 
aPpens to resemble his lost love, expected him to say, “Let’s slay 
e makes Harker a prisoner of the evil Drac-dude.” Ryder, un- 
f; castle and goes to London to fortunately, had a few journal 
*°o Mina; this time he appears writing scenes. I thought Chris- 
^ the guise of dashing Prince tian Slater might appear at the 
' I’m sure you know the rest, window, like he did in Heathers.
1 Xoung girl (Sadie Frost) dies Then there’s Hopkins — who
you’re wondering, the fourth one was the one when Houston jumped 
off the piano she was about to fly away in, and ran back down the 
runway into his arms.
One thing that the movie had going for it was some sense of 
believability. Real life bodyguards are probably not real wits; billion­
aire pop stars could very possibly bo obnoxious and potty; publicists 
are undoubtedly snide and snotty; and so on.
Speaking of believability, Houston’s live club scone was good — 
really good. She’s a dynamic singer, and her presence on the stage 
was electrifying.
I’ve heard from people who have been to her concerts that she has 
a really good live show. I’ve never seen her in concert, but I can relate 
a stoiy about her that gives a sense of “oomph” to her “portraying a 
pop singer turned actress.”
About six years ago, Houston was scheduled to appear at the New 
York State Fair. She was driven up in her limo, stuck her arm out the 
window, felt rain, closed the window, and drove away. Concert 
canceled, end of story.
slf you don’t buy anything else in this review, and actually go see 
The Bodyguard, think about that story — it’s true, and this mental­
ity clearly appears in the character of Marron.
Regardless of the plot or acting or anything else, The Bodyguard 
had one thing going for it all the time — the sets. They were lavish, 
expensive, and beautiful.
Houston’s house was simply incredible; the club where she per­
formed was set up perfectly; and the Academy Award scene looked 
as if it could have been shot last year. The sets are probably the only 
thing that you’ll think about fondly if you actually spend $7 to see the 
film.
There’s one final thing that needs to be addressed—Costner’s all- 
consuming fear. I won’t tell you what it is, but I’ll give you a line 
(delivered by the character’s father) which is the “shocking” revela­
tion about Costner’s personality. “Well, the day Reagan was shot, 
Frank wasn’t there. We were off burying his mother ... He hasn’t 
been the same since.”
The characters all had the decency to look horrified. Don’t go see 
this film — buy a pizza with the money you just saved and wait for 
NBC’s Sunday Night at the Movies.
SYRACUSE ABROAD
ENGLAND • HUNGARY • GERMANY • SPAIN • 
FRANCE • ITALY • POLAND • AUSTRALIA • 
CZECHOSLOVAKIA • ISRAEL •
Apply now for SPRING 93
• Internships• Courses• Field Study
Enrich your learning, your life, your resume.
Substantial Study Abroad Grants are Available.
For information & catalog: 
1-800-235-3472 
SPRING 93
smnrnntHfmrtur,
Syracuse University 
Division of International 
Programs Abroad
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
ONLY IN 
NEW YORK
ONLY AT NYU
Session I: May 24-July 2 
Session II: July 6-August 13
THIS SUMMER, YOU CAN...
• Choose from over 1,000 courses.
• Study wllfi a distinguished! faculty.
• Live In New York City lor as little 
as $100 per six-week session.
Make the NYU Summer 
part oi your year-round plan. 
Call us today toll free at1-800-228-4NYU, ext. 240
or send In the coupon.
Open House
January 8,1993 
I0a.m.
Loeb Student Center 
566 La Guardla Place 
Registration begins January 8
New York University 25 Wal Fourth Street Room 326New York, N.Y. I00I2
Please send me a FREE 1993 Summer Sessions Bulletin. 
My area of Interest Is 
? Undergraduate ? Graduate
.citrniiYAnwoK

---------------------------------------------------

IrSDCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffS
Coffeehouse percolating
COFFEE from page L9
the first block after the expressway, a 
few houses down from one of the larg­
est 1? mdromats in the area, and also 
located between two movie theaters.
Java Jeffs will hopefully target a 
wide variety of customers, not only 
the younger generation but also the 
conservative older audiences, maybe 
even grandparents. The purpose is to 
produce an environment which is 
“cozy and friendly, where people can 
come 'in and ei\joy the music and a 
good cup of coffee,” says Cooper. He 
also claims that this coffeehouse will 
cater to the people with a friendly 
environment.
Most of the ideas being considered 
will be experimental, such as the im­
ported non-alcoholic beer and the pos­
sibility of outside seating. The muBic 
also will be different from most, uti­
lizing music from Progressions such 
as Dead Can Dan, the Cocteau Twins, 
and the Sundays. Departing from the 
normal Pittsburgh coffeehouses, the 
music at Java Jeffs will fashion real 
ambient music with a beat, otherwise 
coined as “Transce Rave.”
When finished, the place will be, as 
Cooper says, “What a coffeehouse 
should look like. It would have the 
classic joint/diner feel.” This entails 
the use of wood furniture and wood 
floors, dim lighting with the imple­
mentation of track lights, formica,
• and most important the color scheme 
: which will be earth tones. With a 30- 
40 person occupancy, there will be 
differing places to drink one’s coffee, 
such aB the bar with 10 stools in the 
front of the window.
; This is another form of a coffee­
house where there are no definitions, 
except for what one creates with a 
little imagination.
Bat man strikes back in Die Fledermaus
jMinis • Minis
1
M i li iM unie
Blind
The Sundays
When people say you're dead 
you know you caught their eye 
& on any other day I'd be soul 
destroyed, 
but that’s just not the way now 
' I don’t mind, telling you
noth ing is quite what it seems... 
Sometimes, wo really do not 
know what life has to offer but 
we dwell in a limbo, apathetic 
and confused, forced to survive. 
In a sonso, wo cannot explicitly 
state that life is this way or life 
is not this way. There are no 
definitions. We define them, but 
what happens when we cannot 
do so? Just like the above lyrics 
from “Blood on my Hands” state 
“nothing is quite what it seems.” 
The Sunday’s new release, 
Blind, reaches audiences and 
leaves an impression unlike its 
former, Reading, Writing, and 
Arithmetic. Blind beautifully and 
majestically plays on the idea of 
life and the world around us. The 
CD alludes to a metaphor where 
we exist and yet do not under­
stand the world fully. Our per­
ceptions are not what they ap­
pear to be. Thus, we are blind to 
reality.
Although the lyrics are rather 
pessimistic, Harriet Wheeler’s 
voice hauntingly captures an 
angelic sweetness. She sings out 
passionately and powerfully with 
intensified emotion.
This along with the soothing 
instrumentals could make the 
CD into some sort of mental 
therapy, but the lyrics are far too 
depressing. However, depression 
can be beautiful. In this case, it 
is.
Other metaphors are ap­
proached, such as time becoming 
medicine to the harsh reality of 
having to live a life after misfor­
tune. Another metaphor is div­
ing her sorrows into and filling a 
sea of blue.
Blind is rich in imagery and is 
rather poetic, making this CD 
-truly a piece of art.
— Barbara Reyes
By MEGAN GURGON
Tartan Junior Staff writer 
& M.K. RODGERS 
Tartan Managing Editor
The Bat got the Butterfly, or did he?
Sitting in the back row of Carlow 
College’s Antonian Theatre, looking over 
the rest of the audience, I caught a 
funny, invigorating, and most of all, 
batty, performance of Die Fledermaus, 
presented by Carnegie Mellon’s Music 
Department. An operetta, distinguished 
from an opera and musical in that it is 
an incorporation of a musical/dramatic 
work with the elements of a romantic 
plot, spoken dialogue, and dancing 
scenes, Die Fledermaus was written by 
Johann Strauss.
New York director Joseph Bascetta, 
who used to working with professionals, 
took on his first-ever college production. 
Bascetta’s angle and approach to direc­
tion at the college level brought unique 
experience to the interpretation and then 
presentation oWieFledermaus, and was 
a reflection of his great skill. That the 
voices of the actors carried like butter­
flies in the wind reflected the brillant 
musical direction of Robert Page.
As with all good opera, the plot centers 
on revenge. On the way home from a 
costume ball late one night, Gabriel von 
Eisenstein (music masters student 
Michael Monnikendam), dressed as a 
butterfly, left his friend Falke played by 
Lawrence Ellington Street (music mas­
ters student), attired as a bat, lying 
intoxicated in a gutter. The following 
morning, Falke had to walk home while 
beirig harassed by all who saw him. At 
that point, Falke began plotting an elabo­
rate revenge.
The opening scene introduced the char­
acters and the main plot threads of the 
web began to intertwine. Alfred, an Ital­
ian singer played by Stephen Phillips 
(music masters student), rekindles his 
love for Eisenstein’s wife Rosalinde, 
played by Theo Fried (senior music ma­
jor), by serenading her. He eventually 
persuaded Rosalinde to engage in a sort 
of rendezvous with him for that evening. 
Meanwhile, Eisenstein was supposed to 
begin serving an eight-day prison sen­
tence.
Unknown to Rosalinde, Falke sug­
gested to Eisenstein that he put off his 
prison term in order to go to a ball at 
Prince Orlofsky’s, a prestigious and 
wealthy member of society. After a tear­
ful farewell — Rosalinde thought 
Eisenstein was going off to prison, when 
he was actually on his way to the ball — 
the couple parted. Shortly after 
Eisenstein left, Alfred arrived and he 
and Rosalinde settled down to an inti­
mate tete a tete. When Frank, the war­
den, arrived to take “Eisenstein” to 
prison, Rosalinde begged Alfred to pre­
tend he was her husband in order to 
preserve her good name. Another tear­
ful farewell and Alfred was off to prison.
The audience was drawn into the heart 
of the plot when the second act opened in 
the lavishly decorated home of the Rus­
sian Prince Orlofsky, where the ball was 
in full swing. Bored with life, even at a 
young age, and promised “a merry com­
edy” for the evening by Falke, Prince 
Orlofsky has allowed his house to be the 
set for “The Revenge of the Bat.”
Orlofsky was a double cast and played 
as a “pants role” by two women, (senior 
music major Valerie Komar and senior 
music major Nancy Maria Balach). The 
guest list included all those people known 
to the von Eisensteins, but present un­
der false identities in order to make the 
ball more interesting and to support 
Falke’s revenge. The plot thickened when 
the warden, disguised as the Chevalier
Chagrin, arrived and struck up a friend­
ship with Eisenstein, who had been in­
troduced as the Marquis Renard. A mys­
terious Hungarian countess, really 
Rosalinde, attends at the /equest and 
knowledge of Falke to expose her 
husband’s flirtations. Eisenstein was 
instantly enchanted with the countess, 
and made advances, including using his 
pocket watch to measure her heartbeat 
as a gauge of her reaction to him — an 
instrument the countess took away from 
him. As the plot thickened and began to 
catch its prey, the Prince and the Bat 
became increasingly amused. As the 
clock struck six times, Eisenstein and 
the warden hastily took their leave.
Act three took place in the prison house
— and revealed the tangled web. 
Eisenstein, committing to serving his 
jail sentence, was astonished to discover 
that the Chevalier Chagrin was really 
the warden.
Trying to convince each other of their 
true identities, a furious Eisenstein un­
covered the story that he had suppos­
edly already been incarcerated and be­
came even angrier when Rosalind ar­
rived to visit her “husband.”
Jealously, Eisenstein furiously swore 
revenge, but Rosalinde pulled from the 
bosom of her dress the pocket watch she 
had acquired the previous evening. It 
eventually dawned on Eisenstein that 
he was the victim of a joke. Falke, the 
bat savoring his triumph, summoned all 
the guests at the ball to join in the party 
at the jail house and to witness his 
revenge.
Bascetta had a lot to offer the cast of 
the operetta, including a new angle, sim­
ply because dealing with professionals 
is a lot different than dealing with col­
lege students. Balach said, “He really 
enjoyed it ... it’s nice to have someone 
new that has a different idea, different
outlook [on things]. For the past two 
years, Janet Booksman directed the op. 
eras.... Booksman stressed more on the 
motivation behind an action and where 
it comes from,” where Bascetta focused 
“a lot about specific action. The this is 
just what it is and make it your own.”
The cast worked very hard in a month 
of intense rehearsals balanced with the 
usual demands ofCMU.DieFledermaus, 
which has a specific tone to get across to 
the audience, can get lost in the floweri­
ness of the plot and decorativeness of the 
sets, but the CMU cast incorporated real 
talent with the help of the direction to 
create just the right feeling without go- 
ing overboard in any aspect of the oper­
etta.
The result was a wonderfully cohesive 
production that managed to stay light­
hearted. Everything pulled together 
nicely. “Fitting the pieces of the puzzle 
together, the director telling you this is 
what you have to do, where you have to 
be; in conjunction with the musical di­
rector telling you this is how it is to be 
sung; and [interacting] with the charac­
ters on the stage, and then positioning 
yourself in relation to everything ... is 
challenging. You have to make it all fit 
in, the singing with the dialogue and full 
orchestra to make [the production effec­
tive],” Balach said.
As one audience member behind jne 
remarked, “Who made the sets? The sets 
are incredible!”—as were the costumes, 
the acting, and the singing. Most nota­
bly, the voices of Katy Clark Shackleton 
and Phillips, the chambermaid and 
Alfred respectively, were remarkable. 
Shackleton’s enunciation was amazingly 
precise. Phillips’ strong tenor voice, 
adaptable demeanor, and Italian accent 
supported and accentuated his nifty 
character. Did the Bat really get the 
Butterfly?
J.P. Morgan Recruits on Campus this Fall...
This is a paid advertisement.
(continned from last year)
J.P. Morgan seeks under­
graduates with potential to
become part of the Morgan 
team that provides sophisticat­
ed financial services to corpo­
rations, governments, finan­
cial institutions, institutional 
investors, nonprofit institu­
tions, and wealthy individuals 
throughout the world.
If you’re interested, 
watch.for recruiters from J.P. 
Morgan who will soon con­
duct information sessions on 
(iampus. Meanwhile, read on.
An overview of 
J.P. Morgan
J.P. Morgan’s business is 
complex, and the role we fill 
often crosses organizational 
and geographic boundaries, 
but broadly speaking the 
financial services we provide 
include the following:
Strategic advice: We are a 
leading financial advisor, 
counseling our clients on the 
financial implications of cor­
porate strategy and structure 
and executing transactions 
such as mergers, acquisitions, 
and divestitures. Morgan is 
especially strong on cross-bor- 
der transactions, taking advan­
tage of our global presence 
and international depth.
Financing and capital 
raising: We are experts on 
raising capital for clients using 
all major financial instruments 
including equity and debt 
underwriting, loan syndica­
tions, and private placements, 
in all major markets in the 
United States, Europe, and the 
Asia/Pacific region.
Trading and risk manage­
ment: Our business often 
requires transactions in the 
capital markets, where stocks, 
bonds, and other instruments 
are launched and traded. 
Morgan is a major participant 
in world markets, as a market 
maker (matching buyers and 
sellers) and as a position taker 
(managing short- or long-term 
risk positions).
Securities processing and 
information services: We 
deliver a wide range of opera­
tional services to our clients, 
handling a variety of needs 
from helping them track secu­
rities portfolios to managing 
cash on a global basis.
Asset management and 
private banking: Morgan pro­
vides large investors - such as 
pension funds, insurance com­
panies,. and wealthy individu­
als - with sophisticated, glob­
al investment management.
Research: Morgan’s busi­
ness activities are supported 
by a strong research capabili­
ty. In some cases, dedicated 
research units support specific
business areas, such as our 
Financial Advisory
Department, a group of com­
pany/industry specialists with­
in our Corporate Finance 
group. In addition, the firm’s 
Global Research group pro­
vides a full range of macro- 
economic analysis and securi­
ties and other financial instru­
ments research.
To be continued at an upcom­
ing information session.
Do career opportunities still 
exist on Wall Street?
rhey do at J.P, Morgan, a world leader in global finance/
We olTcr exceptional carcer opportunities for the highly 
motivated graduate in auditing and financial management, 
corporate linance, global technology and operations, internal 
consulting, sales, trading and research.
You don’t need an educational background in finance to 
succeed at J.P. Morgan. Successful candidates will receive 
extensive on-the-job training. This training includes special­
ized programs that help develop requisite business knowledge 
and technical skills, and introduce the ethics, culture and 
team orientation that distinguish our firm.
Attend our upcoming information session. Watch for the time 
and location on campus. J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated,
60 Wall Street, New York, NY 10260-0060.
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan
JP Morgan

---------------------------------------------------

DCm Dakeas n waksmdgm pmools n Si clymBtmk rffSIri
Disney strikes it rich with 
‘diamond in the rough’ Aladdin
By TARA M. SEMAN
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
Despite being in a theater full 
of children under the age of 10 
and a few minor technical errors 
(the projector broke down), my 
excursion to see Disney’s latest, 
Aladdin, was well worth it. The 
story, the music, the characters, 
the animation — it was all won­
derful.
Aladdin is the rags-to-riches 
story of “diamond in the rough,” 
Aladdin who dreams of being a
courtesy The Walt Disney Company 
The Genie watches wistfully as Aladdin takes 
Princess Jasmine on a magic carpet ride.
rich prince and marrying the 
Sultan’s beautiful daughter, 
Princess Jasmine. The Sultan’s 
evil scheming vizier, Jafar, tricks 
Aladdin into helping him retrieve 
a magic lamp from wonderfully 
animated tiger’s head-shaped 
Cave of Wonders — shades of 
Raiders of the Lost Ark here.
Aladdin ends up with the lamp, 
the Genie (voice by Robin Will­
iams), and three wishes, but he 
makes an enemy of Jafar, who is 
quite a formidable Disney vil­
lain. Aladdin masquerades as 
Prince Ali and falls in love with 
Princess Jasmine, whom he had 
saved in the marketplace when 
he was still Aladdin, the street 
rat. Getting to the requisite 
happy endingfthis is Disney)isn’t 
easy for our hero, which makes it 
great for the audience.
From the beginning strains of 
the first song, “Arabian Nights,” 
Alan Menken’s score sets the 
mood without intruding on the 
story. Menken’s musical efforts 
with his late partner, Howard 
Ashman, with whom he worked 
on The Little Mermaid and 
Beauty and the Beast, are just as 
catchy as his efforts with Tim 
Rice of Jesus Christ Superstar 
fame. Ashman died of AIDS be­
fore all of the songs for Aladdin 
were finished; Rice was brought 
in to finish the project. The 
Menken-Ashman songs are “Ara­
bian Nights,” “Friend Like Me,” 
and “Prince Ali.” The Menken- 
Rice songs are “One Jump 
Ahead,” “A Whole New World,” 
and a reprise of “Prince Ali,” com­
plete with new words from Jafar.
The songs come at appropriate
moments in the story. “Arabian 
Nights,” sung by Bruce Adler, 
sets the stage with a peddler on 
his way into the city of Argrabah 
singing an introduction to 
Aladdin’s story. “One Jump 
Ahead,” sung by Brad Kane, has 
Aladdin, accompaniedby his part­
ner in crime, Abu the monkey, 
singing his philosophy oflife while 
being chased through the mar­
ketplace by guards. Aladdin gets 
his first glimpse of the disguised 
Princess Jasmine just after this 
song.
---------------------- The next song
comes furtherin 
the film when 
Aladdin meets 
up with Will­
iam’s wildly co­
medic Genie. A 
grand show- 
stopper reminis­
cent of Beauty 
and the Beast's 
“Be Our Guest," 
“Friend Like 
Me” allows Will­
iams to do a few 
imitations (Ar­
nold Schwar­
zenegger, Jack 
Nicholson, and 
—just to name aRobert De Niro 
few), and amazingly, the anima­
tors are able to keep up. “Prince 
Ali” combines William’s manic 
delivery with Ashman’s brilliant 
wordplay to introduce the made- 
over Aladdin, now known as 
Prince Ali. The evil Jafar takes a 
shot at the song with some sar­
castic new lyrics.
Like Beauty and the Beast, 
Aladdin features two version of 
its theme song, “A Whole New 
World.” The one in the film has 
Kane and Lea Salonga of Miss 
Saigon fame (Aladdin and Prin­
cess Jasmine) 
singing to each 
other as they 
fall in love on 
the magic car­
pet ride. The 
version that 
you’ll hear on 
the radio fea­
tures per­
formances by 
Regina Belle 
and Peabo Bry­
son.
The charac­
ters are en­
chanting. Hell, 
the magic carpet even has a per­
sonality of its own. Aladdin com­
bines the typical good-looking 
exterior of animated heroes with 
an endearing false bravado. At 
the beginning, he thinks he has 
some great destiny, and he’s very 
confident when it comes to evad­
ing the guards. But, he has to 
work up his courage to be able to 
speak to Jasmine the first time 
he sees her. Later he believes 
that the magic lamp has given
him confidence. By the end, 
Aladdin realizes that his heroic 
qualities come from within.
Princess Jasmine continues 
the progression of female Disney 
characters from shrinking vio­
lets to independent creatures. 
She might be a spoiled princess, 
but she’s a feisty spoiled prin­
cess. She goes so far as to run 
away when she suspects that she 
may be forced to marry. She’s not 
afraid of telling Jafar off when 
she discovers that he supposedly 
ordered the boy who saved her in 
the marketplace killed. Princess 
Jasmine’s father, the Sultan, is a 
rotund little ruler. He obviously 
loves his daughter and is pained 
by her failure to find a prince to 
fall in love with. Unfortunately, 
he is easily manipulated by Jafar.
Jafar and his sidekick, Iago 
the parrot, are interesting vil­
lains. Jafar’s long face with a 
thin mustache and beard makes 
him menacing. Bumbling Iago is 
usually stuck doing the unpleas­
ant parts of Jafar’s schemes. As 
a result, he is always getting 
slammed into something, losing 
feathers as he goes.
The Genie is a wonderfully ex­
pressive, large, blue genie — 
nothingvery surprising here. But 
Williams and the animators work 
together to create different in­
carnations of the Genie when he 
does his various imitations and 
voices.
This cooperation is best illus­
trated by the sequences that go 
along with “Friend Like Me” and 
“Prince Ali.”The little kids in the 
audience found these parts 
funny, but they didn’t appreci­
ate it to the same level that I did.
The animation was magnifi­
cent. Disney’s CGI department 
(Computer Generated Imagery)
A Positive Point About Breast Cancer.
Now we can see it before you can feel it. When it's no 
bigger than the dot on thispage.
And when it’s 90% cur­able. With the best chance 
of saving the breast.
The trick is catching it early. And that's exactly 
what a mammogram can do.
A mammogram is a sim­ple x-ray thats simply the 
best news yet for detecting 
breast cancer. And saving lives.
If you’re over 35, ask your doctor about 
mammography.
Give yourself the chance of a lifetime.’“
AMERICANCANCERïSOCIETY*
16" Cheese 
Pizza
$3.49
Why pay more 
when you can get 
the best for less?
Original Hot Dog Shop 3901 Forbes Avenue 621-0435
courtesy The Walt Disney Company 
The Sultan's evil vizier, Jafar, glares at his loud 
sidekick, Iago.
was kept busy with several se­
quences in Aladdin. Like the 
sweeping ballroom scenes from 
Beauty and the Beast, CGI was 
used to create Aladdin’s magic 
carpet ride through the Cave of 
Wonders, the intricate magic 
carpet itself, and the unbeliev­
able tiger-head Cave of Wonders.
I cannot recommend Aladdin 
highly enough. It’s definitely 
worth the $7 to see it at the 
movie theater.
March of the Falsettos triumphant
By JENNIFER URSO
Tartan Darkroom Staff
I honestly never looked forward to seeing a 
musical. In fact, I was sort of conned into writing 
this review. To my surprise, I actually ei\joyed it. 
Directed by Kelleigh Greenborg, a sophomore 
directing major, Scotch ’n’ Soda’s adaptation of 
the 1981 Broadway musical, March of the Falset­
tos, ran Friday through Sunday night in the 
Wherrett Room.
The first thing that drew me in and made mo 
laugh was the opening song, “Four Jews in a 
Room Bitching.” There were four men on stage, 
all singing about their being neurotic Jews. I was 
amused. The entire first scene was loaded with 
energy as these guys ran around stage, pushing 
chairs and pushing each other over, all the while, 
maintaining strong singing voices. Here was the 
opening of a musical whose point confused me but 
humor left me interested.
But soon, the story developed as I figured out 
that one of the men, Marvin, played by Michael 
Patrick Walker (senior math/computer science 
major), had left his wife, Trina, played by 
KristieAnne Reed, (sophomore directing major), 
because he realized he was gay. This throws him 
into psychiatric care and confuses his pre-adoles- 
cent son, Jason, played by seventh-grader, Brent 
R. Montone.
After Marvin and his lover, Whizzer, played by 
Andy Vaughan (sophomore math major), estab­
lish their sexuality, they proceed to go into a 
“mini opera” of Marvin’s psychiatric sessions. 
Through these, the audience realizes the psy­
chiatrist, Mendel, played by Andy Folmer (junior 
chemistry major), is after Marvin’s ex-wife, Trina. 
He regularly digresses from Marvin’s love life 
and family problems to her habits, how she looks, 
and what she’s like to live with. Folmer’s por­
trayal of Mendel makes the situation even more 
humorous by using exaggerated movements and 
expressions as Marvin reveals more and more 
facts about Trina.
Meanwhile, Marvin seems to be suffering from 
his lover not loving him, his son being ashamed of 
him, and his wife being confused by him. Ho 
walks around stage with a furrowed brow, feeling 
constantly depressed. No one seems to love him, 
which made me feel sorry for him. Walker did a 
wonderful job of portraying the helplessly un­
loved loner who still believes that love is the most
beautiful thing in the world. Jason, his son, can’t 
understand his father’s delusions of this won­
derful tiring called love, because all he feels at 
the time is pressure from his broken family to go 
see a psychiatrist. Trina’s speedy engagement to 
Mendol complicates situations even more. The 
climax of the story is reached when Murvin flips 
out and foolishly realizes that no ono loves him. 
But he’s wrong, bocause the most touching part 
of the entiro production is a song ho sings to his 
son about the only thing he realizes is important 
anymore — his son’s love.
Tho overall performance and set-up of this 
production was impressive. Props and costumes 
were simple, consisting mostly of a few chairs, a 
chess set, and plain clothes. So the main reason 
why this production was so successful was the 
talent of the performers. Walker and Reed had 
expressive and emotional voices that empha­
sized their trying situations. From what I’ve 
seen before, a child’s voice in a musical is usually 
shaky or slightly off pitch, but Montone, a stu­
dent at the Civic Light Opera Academy of Musi­
cal Theater, came across with a strong and 
believable voice. It wasn’t over-dramatic and fit 
his part extremely well. Folmer and Vaughan 
gave outstandingperformances as well—Folmer 
with wonderfully choreographed movements and 
Vaughan with a fully developed character per­
sonality. All five actors had outstanding voices 
and met in flawless harmony .
So, basically I’m saying that I liked the show. 
And for all you people who said they were “sorry” 
that I had to go take pictures and write a review 
for it, you shouldn’t be so sorry. If you missed 
March of the Falsettos, you definitely missed an 
impressive, entertaining amateur performance.
Jonnlfor Ureo/Tnrton Dnrkroom Stoff The cast members gather for dlnnor.
immCPmsnP SwCy,f( hmceCPmv44
1nc fwC sP9smCe mn 5fwmsks5fmC 
sP m)sv uCfw2v
ANFL COUEM CNaOtEurtdy
An open informational meeting will be
held on 
Monday, November 3, 5 pm in 
Baker Hall 355
A second meeting will be held on 
Wednesday, December 2, at 4:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 355
Case materials will be available at these meetings and in
Baker Hall 161.
For further information, contact via e-mail 
Eric Bradley (eb2c) or Jill Denesvich (jd3u)

---------------------------------------------------

UNI V ERS I
©1992 Warner Bros. Inc.
Warner Bros.’ Singles stars (front, left to right) Kyra Sedgwick as Linda, Sheila Kelley as Debbie, Jim True as Bailey, (back, left to right) Campbell Scott as 
Steve, Matt Dillon as Cliff, and Bridget Fonda as Janet. Singles Is a romantic 
comedy that traces the love lives of six twentysomethlng friends who live in one 
house. Singles plays in DH 2210 Friday, December 5, at 6,8,10, and midnight.
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $5.
There will be no DH2210 movie Thurs­
day or Sunday the weekend before fi­
nals.
The Best Intentions continues at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse each evening 
through November 25. Show time is 7 
pm nightly.
Singles shows in DH 2210 on Friday, 
December 4, at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Death Becomes Her plays in DI I2210 
Saturday, December 5. Tentative times 
are 6, 8,10, and midnight.
E&Sand Hunt Libraries will be open 
over Thanksgiving Break. Hours are 
Tuesday and Wednesday 8 am-6 pm, 
qloscd Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, 
Friday and Saturday 9 am-5 pm. Mellon 
Institute Library will be closed Thurs­
day and Friday.
ihe 1993 Beaux Arts Ball. The
Hewlett Gallery is looking for memora­
bilia, including photographs, drawings, 
costumes, and videotapes from past 
Balls. Please contact Petra Fallaux, 
director, at x3877.
The Schenley Park Ice Skating 
ftink opens on Friday at 7 pm. Admis­
sion is $3; skate rental is $1.50. College 
ID Night is scheduled every Tuesday 
evening from 9:30-11:30 pm, and ad­
mission is $1.50. For more information 
on daily hours and reservations for 
parties, call 422-6523.
Are you a vegetarian or interested in 
learning more about vegetarianism? 
CMU Vegetarians has a variety of in­
formative literature and cookbooks 
available on reserve in Hunt Library.
Orientation ’93 planning is under­
way. Counselor applications are avail­
able in the Office of Student Affairs. 
Contribute ideas by posting comments 
on assocs.orientation93. Contact Tony 
DeRoss at x4649 for information.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5-7 pm, 
in addition to regular weekday office 
hours.
The National Society of Black 
Engineerings (NSBE) is sponsoring
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. We offer BOC and 
opportunities for business contacts. All 
majors are welcome. Questions? Call 
Aurora at x8310.
Volunteer Babysitting Network
(VBN) is an information exchange which 
enables student parents to solve part of 
their child care problems. VBN cur­
rently needs student parents with fi­
nancial need for child care and 
babysitters willing to volunteer for 
CMU’s children. For more information, 
contact David Pegher at x4840, Box 
1107, or email dp31.
a food drive. Donation boxes are located 
all over campus. Look for red, black, 
and green and please contribute a non- 
perishable item. Contact Chanda Sand­
ers at x8965 with any questions.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 
1507, will have open office hours for 
students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday 
and Friday until December 15. During 
these times, a staff member is available 
to discuss legal problems, such as secu­
rity deposits and leases, that are re­
lated to University life. They will not 
provide legal assistance for personal 
legal matters but can make referrals to 
attorneys in private practice.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 
pm in the Women’s Center. Call Shel 
Strictland at x3595 for information.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds it meetings Tuesdays at 5 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
The Kenpo Karate club meets on 
Tuesdays from 7-9 pm in Activity Room 
A and Sunday from 2-4 pm. For more 
information contact Chris Demlein by 
email at cd2b or call x4179.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. 
All members of the campus community 
are welcome to attend.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet­
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathe­
dral of Learning Room 236. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Women’s Discussion Group meets 
Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU 
Women’s Center. Questioning? Posi­
tively sure? Come to the discussion 
group for friendly talk and fun.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okin­
awan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnogie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ­
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with an Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in the chapel lo­
cated on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. An Eucharist is 
also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For 
more information, contact campus min­
ister Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
CMU Department of Music presents 
a concert by the CMU Wind Ensemble 
Tuesday at 8 pm in Synod Hall, a Holi- 
day Concert in the College of Fine Arts 
at noon on Friday, December 4, and a 
concert by the Jazz Ensemble Satur­
day, December 5, at 6:30 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall. Call x2383 for 
information and reservations.
Voices United Gospel Choir presents 
their annual concert Saturday, Decem­
ber 5, at 6 pm in the Ballroom. Free of 
charge and all are welcome. Refresh­
ments will be served. Contact Tara 
Haughton at x7523 for information.
The Christian Science Organiza­
tion at CMU meets every Tuesday at 8 
pm in Skibo 13. If you are a Christian 
Scientist, or are interested in learning 
more about Christian Science, please 
stop by and find out what we’re all 
about.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House will not be hosting the 
Bible Study on Tuesday due to Thanks­
giving break. The last meeting is on 
Tuesday, December 1, from 5-6 pm to 
which all students are invited. The 
meeting will be a Christmass party, 
and those attending are encouraged to 
share their favorite Bible verses. For 
more information, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIA main auditorium. Immacu­
late Conception, Holy Day Mass will be 
held December 8 at noon and 5 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. For more informa­
tion, call Bryan Summers at The Ora­
tory at 681-3181.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm 
at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Anyone wishing to inquire into the 
Roman Catholic faith is welcome to 
attend. For more information, contact 
Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
CMU Department of Psychology
presents Rita Sloan Bemdt from the 
University of Maryland as part of the 
Colloquium Series Tuesday at noon in 
BH 355. Topic to be announced.
EastEndFoodCo-oppresents Sharon 
Sutterfield speaking on Iridology and 
Kinesiology Wednesday from 7-9 pm 
as part of its fall lecture series. Free of 
charge and open to the public.
Nicholas Nickleby (Parts I & II), per 
formed by the CMU Department of 
Drama, runs through December 12, 
For ticket information, call x2407.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Dance 
Theatre openB the season with the 
Nutcracker. Performances are Decem­
ber 9 through December 12 at 8 pm and 
December 13 at 2 pm. Tickets are $8 
and $10. Call the Playhouse at 621- 
4445 for tickets and information.
Flying Pig Theatre presents Real­
ity Optional at the Artery in Shadyside 
(5847 Ellsworth Ave.) December 12 at8 
pm. Tickets are $5. For information 
and reservations, call 731-5112.
The Oakland Review is sponsoring 
the second session in the “callingthe 
kettle black” student reading series 
Friday, December 4, at 8:30 pm in 
Scotland Yard.
Poet Michael Waters will read from 
his works at 8 pm, Wednesday, Decem­
ber 2 in the Adamson Wing in Baker 
Hall as part of the Carnegie Mellon 
Visiting Writers Series. Waters is a 
professor of English at Salisbury State 
University. The event is free and open 
to the public. For more information, 
call Lisa Lightner at x3580.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts
presents Migrations of Meaning in the 
National Gallery, works by Renee Stout 
in the Special Projects Gallery, and 
Totally Teapots in the Main Galleries 
through December 27. Call 361-0873 
for more information.
The Kiltie Band presents its annual 
Holiday Concert on Tuesday, Decem­
ber 1, at 5:30 pm in Grey Matter. Selec­
tions include favorite carols and songs 
of the holiday season. Refreshments 
will be provided. Admission is free.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The women’s basketball team trav­
els to Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity Tuesday to play at 6 pm. Next 
weekend, the team hosts the Carnegie 
Mellon Classic. Frostburg State, 
Waynesburg, and Penn State-Behrend 
will participate. Tuesday, December 1, 
the team plays at Washington & 
Jefferson College at 7 pm. Friday, De­
cember 4, it hosts the University of 
Chicago at 6 pm.
The men’s basketball team also trav­
els to Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity Tuesday; game time is 8 pm. This 
weekend the team hosts the Carnegie 
Mellon Classic. Thomas College, Clark 
University, and Thiel College partici­
pate. The team hosts John Carroll Uni­
versity Tuesday, December 1, at 7:30 
pm, University of Chicago Friday, De­
cember 4, at 8 pm, and Johns Hopkins 
University Sunday, December 6, at 3 
pm.
The men’s and women’s swimming 
teams compete at Johns Hopkins Uni­
versity December 4-5.
HRH —
One astonishment after 
another. Congratulations 
on a job well done.
Love,
The Old Folks
Mike,
I couldn’t have done it without you. 
Thank you. I love you.
— Heidi
KAP
Thanks for the awesome pajama 
jammy jam mixer! We had a blast! 
Love,
Pitt KA0
24 issues down, 60 to go.
Hi. You’ve reached the_______an-
“Unh!”
“Ech!”
“Argh!”
“Ack!”
“Hurrumph!"
— Varied and repeated reactions to 
the last Student Senate meeting.
IrllS
swering service. All the brothers are... 
busy right now.
“Education at CMU is an unnatural 
act performed by consenting adults in 
public.”
— Richard L. Enos 
Makes sense to me!
Many blessings to everyone!
— The members of Tech House
Thanks to everyone—it’s been a great 
year. Let’s party!
— Heidi
“Killing Vince isn’t assassination. 
That’s euthanasia.”
— Michael L. being a domesticate
“ ... and the standard deviation was 
33.5!”
A CIT student overheard delivering 
the punch line.
first Baumann, then Rinderle.... i think 
maybe i’ll just kill myself instead of 
putting up with the torture.
“Look, you're Donatello. Now I’m 
Donatello too!”
Ramsey is special and Bmells like mint.
mm mmm mm mmmm 
mmmm mmm mmmmw f
“How do you talk to an angel?"
In Hebrew, of course.
UNEARTHED DOCUMENTS
RUSSIAN PROTOTYPE
“Hanging from the cobwebs in your 
mind,
looks like a long, long way to fall
— RJD
monkey butt, monkey butt, you have a 
monkey butt.
Roscoe,
You should go by your first name, 
Dick!
— J
