THE TARTAN
Volume 87, Issue 3 Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 14 September 1992
Senate brings up first resolutions of semester
Volum e8e7o 
,8me7I sl7m3llC
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Junior Staff
A little after 1 pm. Friday, the residents and staff of Morewood 
Gardens were startled by the ear-piercing sound of the fire alarm. 
Apparently a ventilation motor in the paneling on the third floor 
between A- and E-Towers burned out, causing the electrical wires 
and insulation to smoke. The fire department and Campus Police 
remained on the scene for 45 minutes.
Morewood Gardens had not had its first fire drill for the fall 
semester.
Unfortunately, there was some confusion for residents of Morewood 
E-Tower after the first alarm ended. According to Amy Ginther, 
assistant director of housing for Residence Life, the fire department 
permitted E-Tower residents to re-enter the building, but not A- and 
B-towers because the main entrance is only a few dozen feet from the 
source of the smoke.
Mike Voytko, a freshman drama major, third floor E-Tower resi­
dent, was one of the first to notice the smell of the smoke.
“I has previously gone back and forth over the bridge when I 
noticed an odor, but I assumedit was the buffer that the janitors used 
previously,” said Voytko. When the fire alarm went off, he realized, 
“This was not a prank, and not a drill.” Eric Wheeler, another third 
floor resident, said he originally thought the fire alarm was nothing 
serious until he opened the door. “When I noticed the smell, I 
immediately locked the door and went downstairs,” Wheeler said.
The confusion continued for E-Tower residents when a second 
alarm sounded, after they had just re-entered their rooms. When 
third floor E-Tower residents re-entered the building, they were 
immediately reprimanded by Campus Police and told to leave again. 
This happened not once but three times as students received conflict­
ing instructions from fire control authorities.
One minor concern during the evacuation was students crowding 
on the sidewalk as the fire department entered the building. Al­
though it was a minor problem, it wasn’t clear whether fire depart­
ment needed to bring more equipment into Morewood to eliminate 
the smoke. Dave Potter, area coordinator for Morewood, asked 
students not to stand on the sidewalk in future evacuations.
Fortunately, the evacuation occurred relatively smoothly and 
without incident or injury. Roy Huang, RA for the third floor of E- 
Tower, was relieved to know that students did leave the building and 
follow proper procedures. Ginther described the incident as “a minor 
problem [in which] the students cooperated well.”
Vincent Eirene leads the Desert Flower protest In front of Doherty Hall on Wednesday afternoon. He was Joined by nine others.
ame,m e,rngnIrI oe7,i lM Ue7Mm7 ve88
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Ardent peace activist Vincent Eirene orga­
nized another on-campus demonstration this 
week, protesting United States government 
funding ofCamegie Mellon research 
for supposed military purposes.
Eirene organized the event with 
students of an organization called 
Desert Flower, an activist group 
which opposes military interven­
tion in the affairs of Iraq.
Eirene and a student held up a 
banner which read “Bread not 
Bombs,” the name of the event, _^==. 
while other students passed out 
flyers. After a short speech in front of Doherty 
Hall to students as they walked to and from 
class, Eirene and 13 other people marched 
from Doherty Hall to Warner Hall, where he 
attempted to deliver a large loaf of Italian 
bread and a copy of the flyer to University 
President Robert Mehrabian.
The flyer was a photocopy of a page from
the Pittsburgh Business Times, which de­
tailed outside funding to different colleges 
within Carnegie Mellon and The University 
of Pittsburgh. The loaf of bread was approxi­
mately two feet in length.
Mehrabianwasnotpresentoncampusthe
“[CMU is] a military university 
... more money is made from 
military research than from the 
tuition you payty
day of the protest. Eirene, nine students, 
two photographers, and two cameramen were 
prevented from entering Warner Hall by 
Campus Police Chief James LaPaglia and 
two other Campus Police officers, to whom 
Eirene delivered the items.
Eirene made several accusations during 
his speech, most of them directed towards
Carnegie Mellon and the supposed involve- 
mentoftechnical colleges in military projects. 
Eirene said to students, “[CMU is] a military 
university. At Carnegie Mellon University 
more money is made from military research 
than from the tuition you pay.” Eirene also 
alleged that Carnegie Mellon was di­
rectly involved in the development of 
computerized weapon systems used by 
American forces in Iraq.
Eirene dubbed the United States “the 
empire” when describing American for­
eign affairs in general. At the end of the 
event, Eirene also made a reference to 
Eirene t*le biblical st;ory Of David and Goliath 
_______________________with regard to the small size of the dem­
onstration and its possible impact on
University policy.
University policy recognizes the, right of 
students to organize orderly and peaceful dem­
onstrations outdoors on campus (see sidebar). 
This policy does not address the right of per­
sons not affiliated with Carnegie Mellon to 
hold such demonstrations.
Eirene is no£affiliated with the University.
• Just what is Washington up 
to, anyway?
See page 7
• Tartans football crushes 
Washington University in St. 
Louis.
See page 13
• A day in the life of Carnegie
Inside...Mellon.
See page LI
......11• The Phantom of the Opera is
......L5here! Michael Crawford speaks.
......L9See page L4
......LI
Forum...........................
Sports............................
University Calendar 
Vox Pouli.......................
6
9
LI 2 
....LI 2
• Everything you wanted to 
know about this fall’s movies 
but were afraid to ask.
See page L9
©1982The Ladd Company 
Harrison Ford stars In the 
director's cut of Blade Runner. 
See the fall movie preview.
Pmbr lh 1Mngm7Inr4 al8n,4 lM SmolMIr7ernlMI
(fromCMU catalog, 1992-1994)
The University recognizes the 
right and privilege of all students 
to exercise the constitutional guar­
antees of free assembly and ex­
pression. As a University sincerely 
espousing the philosophy of aca­
demic freedom, the University 
urges and supports its students’ 
desires and efforts to pursue these 
rights.
In instances where students 
wish to use these rights through 
protest or demonstrations, the 
rights and privilegesof others must 
be considered. To Insure this:
• The protest or demonstration 
must be of an orderly nature so 
that no acts of force or violence 
shall occur and the normal orderly 
operation of the University will not 
be impeded;
• The protest or demonstration
shall not Infringe upon the rights 
or privileges of students not in 
sympathy with it. Thus, all stu­
dents are assured that the ideas 
of others shall not be Inflicted 
upon them and that they will be 
allowed to exercise the right of 
free choice;
• Finally, the freedom to demon­
strate on the campus shall be 
limited to members of the campus 
community only.
Many people have asked what 
the University will do if a demon­
stration on this campus were to 
occur that Is not responsibly con­
ducted and that is therefore dis­
ruptive. Exceptunder extreme con­
ditions, a committee made up of 
members of the administration, 
faculty, and student body will be 
consulted. The University will at­
tempt to deal with such a disrup-
tive demonstration by Internal 
means If at all possible!...] In any 
University disciplinary action which 
might ensue, the constitutional 
freedoms and rights of students, 
including due process, will be main­
tained.
However, If It becomes evident 
that a disruptive demonstration 
cannot be dealt with internally, 
the University may have to seek 
outside aid, probably through the 
injunctive processes of the courts. 
And If a demonstration becomes 
destructive of property or threat­
ens life or limb, the University may 
have to request immediate assis­
tance from law enforcement offi­
cials outside the University.
The integrltyof the campus com­
munity Is primary and the normal 
functioning of the University must 
not be impaired.
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Three important resolutions 
were proposed last week to Stu­
dent Senate. Two were referred 
to committee, one condemning 
the actions of President Meh­
rabian concerning the Statement 
of Assurance, and one concerning 
the banning of smoking on cam­
pus. The third passed, establish­
ing standard regulations concern­
ing student organization proba­
tion.
The first resolution condemned 
the recent changes to the 
University’s Statement of Assur­
ance made by Mehrabian as 
“hasty and irresponsible.” The 
second paragraph of the State­
ment of Assurance was reworded 
in response to the Human Rela­
tions Commission’s report on 
heterosexism in the Navy ROTC 
program. The resolution, intro­
duced by MCS Senator Mike 
Tomblyn, denounced the fact that 
the changes were made without 
first consulting Student Senate, 
and stated that as of Friday, Sep­
tember 4, Senate had still not 
been officially informed of the
changes. The resolution further 
calls on Mehrabian to “show a 
greater sense of responsibility and 
sensitivity to the whole of the 
campus community in future de­
cisions regarding university 
policy that affects each member.” 
The resolution was sent to the 
Academic Affairs committee.
Tomblyn said that because the 
amendment was made on July 
10, when campus was not in ses­
sion, the President’s actions were 
technically “okay.” However, the 
Executive Committee (ExComm) 
is authorized to meet in the name 
of Senate as long as a quorum of 
the members of ExComm are 
present on campus. Tomblyn said 
that over two-thirds of the mem­
bers of ExComm were at the Uni­
versity this summer.
“We weren’t even approached 
... what this means is that the 
student body was the furthest 
thing from [Mehrabian’s] mind. 
The student body is an after­
thought to the administration," 
said Tomblyn.
“We got the ball rolling [to 
change the statement of assur­
ance] but we were left out when 
the decision was made.”
Tomblyn said that something 
that isn’t even mentioned in the 
resolution is that the amendment 
to the Statement is wrong. The 
amendment says that ROTC 
classes are available to all stu­
dents. Tomblyn said that this is 
incorrect.
“Army ROTC classes are not 
available to all students. Navy 
and Air Force ROTC classes are, 
but to be in Army ROTC classes 
you must be enrolled in the pro­
gram.” Tomblyn says that be­
cause he is a member of ExComm 
that recommended the amend­
ment, he considers the mistake 
to be a “personal embarrass-
ment.”
“[The administration] didn’t 
take the time to do the research 
on this. When it first came out, I 
said this disclaimer was errone­
ous, that it clearly didn’t go the 
distance. The response I got was 
that ‘it’s just going into the lead­
ership packet, don't worry about 
it,’” Tomblyn said, “This is going 
to come back to haunt us some­
day. This is going to hurt the 
University in the end. Out of 
respect for the administration, I 
dropped my complaints.”
Tomblyn also said that some of 
the other Senators felt the lan­
guage in the resolution was too
harsh. Although Tomblyn said, 
“everyone except for one person” 
in the student body that he has 
talked to felt that it was appro­
priate, certain members of Sen­
ate have threatened to vote 
against it if it comes out of com­
mittee.
“They want metowateritdown, 
and I refuse to. I’ll kill it in com­
mittee first.” Tomblyn feels that 
even if the resolution is defeated, 
it has served its purpose by ex­
pressing Senate’s displeasure at 
the way the student body is 
treated by the administration.
“This is an indicator of the un­
derlying problem of the lack of
communication between the stu­
dent body and the administra­
tion.” Tomblyn said, “We are not 
bashing President Mehrabian ... 
we are taking issue with the of­
fice of the president, not 
Mehrabian. It’s the mindset of 
the administration. They only 
deal with the students when we 
raise enough hell.”
The second resolution would 
probably have the greatest effect 
on the personal lives of students 
if its suggestions were imple­
mented. TheAnti-SmokingReso- 
lution, introduced by H&SS Sena­
tor Joshua Knauer, calls for ciga- 
Please see RESOLUTIONS, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

pPim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 EwwpTHIS JUST IN...__________
Bush addresses economic concerns
NEW YORK, Sept. 10 (DJ) — President Bush 
presented an outline for his “agenda for renewal” of 
the U.S. economy, emphasizing the need for export 
growth, more international trade agreements, and 
a diminishing role for government.
In presenting his new program for revitalizing 
the economy to the Detroit Economic Club, Bush 
said that it is his goal to see the U.S. economy 
“double to $10 trillion by the early years of the next 
century.”
A key theme in his speech was the need to reduce 
the role of government in business.
“The clumsy hand of government is no match for 
the uplifting hand of the free market,” Bush said. 
He said he intends to “check the growth of govern­
ment, and in some ways reverse it.”
He also emphasized the need for the U.S. to boost 
exports and compete on a global basis. The U.S.
27nrn,I ClfFr
WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 (DJ)
— President Bush’s much antici­
pated economic policy speech to­
day in Detroit laid out ideas for 
restoring the economy through 
smaller government, lower taxes, 
and increased investment and in­
ternational trade. But it wasn’t 
enough, critics say.
The speech failed to come to 
terms with what has become 
Bush’s main political conundrum: 
how to restore the credibility he’s 
lost on economic issues 
since breaking his no 
new taxes pledge in 
1990.
And the remarks, 
which had been ex­
pected to spell out spe­
cifics of tax-cutting 
plans outlined in his 
acceptance speech at 
the Republican Na­
tional Convetion, gen­
erally fell short of 
charting a detailed new economic 
course for a second term.
While the speech was another 
in a series of rhetorical moves 
toward a tax-cutting position he’s 
made since the Republican Na­
tional Convention, it didn’t dem­
onstrate an ability to follow 
through, according to conserva­
tive critics who would like to be 
sympathetic to Bush.
The speech left conservatives 
still uneasy as to whether Bush 
would follow the rhetoric with 
actions that would actually 
change the government and im­
prove the economy.
‘There’s nothing new in it,” 
said Daniel Mitchell, a fellow at
will grow “only if we can compete globally in every 
part of the world.”
Bush said that while there are problems with the 
U.S. economy, it remains the strongest in the 
world, and that changes must take that into ac­
count.
Bush said he will expand U.S. free trade with 
East European and Asian countries, adding to 
current U.S. free trade initiatives with Canada, 
Mexico, and Latin America.
In his speech, Bush said the next steps are to 
secure Congressional agreement to the North 
American Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between 
the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.
And Busfa said global trade talks through the 
Uruguay Round of the General Agreements on 
Tariffs and Trade was also a priority and said an 
agreement would be close if the U.S. could be
HfIiWI D8eMI
lastthree-and-a-halfyears shows 
that he has done little to cut 
spending or regulation and pre­
sided over a large tax increase as 
part of the 1990 budget agree­
ment.
As an example of what Bush 
could have done to emphasize his 
determination to cut spending, 
Moore said that he could vow to 
veto every spending bill that 
comes to him unless it contains a 
five percent spending cut.
Since there 
are now 13 
congressional 
appropria­
tions bills un­
der consider­
ation by Con­
gress that re­
quire his sig­
nature, the ef­
fect of the veto 
threat would 
be immediate, 
according to Moore.
“Bush has got to do something! 
to prove that he’s really commit­
ted,” says Moore.
The one area where Bush had 
substantive new ideas was in the 
area ofintemational trade, where 
he proposed expanding U.S. free 
trade with East European and 
Asian countries, adding to cur­
rent U.S. free trade initiatives 
with Canada, Mexico, and Latin 
America. Bush says he plans to 
pursue such agreements, start­
ing with Chile in Latin America.
“It will not take long for other 
countries to begin to express their 
interest in new trade and busi­
ness ties with us,” Bush said.
assured of cuts in subsidized agricultural trade 
along the lines of GATT proposals.
Bush said that he would pursue new trade agree­
ments with Latin America, starting with Chile.
“I would also like to work towards Alit with 
Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia by the end of 
my second term,” said Bush in a supporting docu­
ment to his speech distributed by the White House.
“It will not take long for other countries to begin 
to express their interest in new trade and business 
ties with us,” Bush said.
“For example, leaders in Australia and Korea 
have already spoken of their interest in forging 
closer economic ties.”
Bush said the “most significant” component of 
his agenda for renewing the U.S. economy is the 
focus on “one global economy.”
Bush used the question and answer session to
defend his environmental positions.
“My administration has a good solid environ­
mental record,” he said.
Bush said whether the issue is automobile 
emmissions or owl habitats, he is not going to adopt 
policies “that throw Americans out of work.”
He said that his goal of a $10 trillion economy by 
early in the next century is “achievable.”
Bush said that he “is convinced” that the pace of 
economic activity in the U.S. “won’t remain ane­
mic” much longer, and that it will soon rebound to 
the pace needed to meet his $10 trillion goal.
Bush said that the adoption of the North Ameri­
can Free Trade Agreement will “mean jobs in the 
U.S.”
He is “convinced” that the trade pact will boost 
both trade with Mexico and job creation in the 
United States.
S7ehr nIIfm ilfMCI 28nMrlM
WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 (DJ) — Sen. Bob 
Kerrey, who won the Medal of Honor in the 
Vietnam War, appealed to President Bush to 
“call off the dogs” and end Republican attacks on 
Democratic nominee Bill Clinton regarding his 
avoidance of the draft in the late 1960s, The Wall 
Street Journal reported.
“When you began your presidency you said 
you wanted to put the Vietnam memory behind 
us,” said the Nebraska Democrat, whose right 
leg was shattered in the war. “Now, when the 
hunger for re-election has gotten the better of 
you, and the smell of political blood is in the air, 
you abandon your earlier and correct intention.”
Speaking from the Senate floor, Kerrey’s re­
marks were both an appeal for healing and an 
implicit warning to Bush that the attacks invite 
a review of his own record in government during 
Vietnam and the immediate aftermath. The 
senator talked of his reconciliation with his own 
service and the Cold War leaders who sent him 
to the war.
“What were you doingin 1975 when Saigon fell 
and the killing fields of Cambodia began?” Kerrey 
asked in a rhetorical thrust at the president. He 
described the system of draft deferments in the 
Vietnam era as a political creation to “minimize 
the inconvenience” of the war and reminded 
Bush that he himself was in Congress during 
this period.
“The condition of having a special draft status 
was not created by Bill Clinton,” Kerrey said. “It 
was created and later allowed by politicians like 
George Bush and his mentor, Richard Nixon ... 
God help us if, in 1992, the people who brought 
us the tragedy of Vietnam use it in a deceptive
way to hold onto power.”
Kerrey’s statement is significant because of his 
standing among Vietnam veterans and because 
he warned in his own unsuccessful presidential 
campaign that Republicans would use the draft 
issue against Clinton. At the Democratic conven- 
tioninNewYork, he was surprised that Clinton’s 
camp went to great lengths to avoid the issue, 
and Kerrey subsequently wrote the governor 
urging him to be more direct in confronting the 
matter.
The two men spoke before Kerrey’s speech. But 
the Senator remains frustrated by what he sees 
as Clinton’s failure to confront the fact that his 
extended deferments separated him from often 
less educated and poorer men who were caught 
in the war. “The whole system was institutional­
ized privilege,” he said. “And Clinton’s reaching 
out now to the very people who were hurt.”
Afterward, Kerrey admitted his own hurt at 
having to probe his past again. “Sometimes when 
I speak, I can’t push it too deep or I can’t go on,” 
he said.
In his own campaign, Kerrey sought to use his 
war experience as a metaphor for healing by 
emphasizing his recovery from his crippling 
wound. He returned to the same theme yester­
day, and seemed to speak of himself as he ap­
pealed to Bush not to risk the healing the Presi­
dent had pledged to seek at his own inaugural.
“You seem to understand the way these war 
wounds have incapacitated individual combat­
ants as well as the nation,” he said. “The healing 
allows veterans to lead normal lives and America 
to once again develop a confident, bipartisan 
foreign policy.”
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Brendan McFeely
.
The image in the center, based on the universal symbol of mankind, is cradled by the helping hand. It shows that all peo­ple are supported and uplifted by United Way efforts.
the Heritage Foundation, a con­
servative think-tank. “If [Bush] 
means it, then they have some 
good ideas and some good poli­
cies. But if it’s just more empty 
rhetoric, it doesn’t give me a whole 
lot of faith.”
Mitchell said that to gain cred­
ibility, Bush would have to change 
his economic advisory team, per­
haps replacing Treasury Secre­
tary Nicholas Brady and Budget 
Director Richard Darman, the
“People are sort of tired of the 
rhetoric, and they want action. ” 
J Stephen Moore, director of 
Fiscal Policy Studies, 
The Cato Institute
“people who failed in the first 
place” to get the economy re­
started.
“My own impression is that 
Bush has a real credibility prob­
lem,” says Stephen Moore, direc­
tor of Fiscal Policy Studies at the 
conservative Cato Institute.
Both Moore and Mitchell were 
briefed by White House staff 
ahead of the speech.
"People are sort of tired of the 
rhetoric, and they want action,” 
Moore said.
Moore says that it’s difficult to 
believe Bush’s talk about cut- 
tingspendingandpreventingun- 
nocessary regulation when the 
President’s own record for the
will be offered
September 19 
at 
10:00 am
To sign up contact 
BECKY CLARK 
in UCC pE' 
xLR'R
2loDfrm7
V,nmM,m
Bmreum
hl7
ET-Ep0

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp'
Student Senate Minutes
Beyond all the ¡bonuses, you’ll 
have the right calculator for 
your most challenging classes.
I IP 48 calculators have over 
2100 built-in functions and 
offer a unique combination of 
graphics and calculus.
Head over I/i the campus book­
store now. After all, you don’t 
see this kind of deal every day. 
HP calculators. The best for 
your success.
What vkU!kPPAaN2“NBS
STUDENT 
SENATE »
Roll was taken at 7:00 pm, meet­
ing called to order at 7:15 pm.
Ex-Officios Present: Assis­
tant to the Dean Tim Foster (Stu­
dent Affairs), Gesmond (Presi­
dent), Dean Murphy, Papa (AB), 
P.ptthast (SDC), Dean Witchner, 
Wolfson (GSO).
Approval of the Minutes: We 
apologize for the lack of minutes 
from last week, we are currently 
looking for a new secretary.
Audience Participation: 
None.
Special Business: None. 
.Committee Reports: 
Academic Affairs Commit­
tee (Mike Tomblyn): None.
. Campus Affairs Commtitee 
(Erik Altmann): [...] Terrell 
Dean and Amy Potthast running 
tables next week for Food for 
Thought, to promote student in­
teraction with Senators. We will 
be by the Clock on Wednesday 
Septl6 from 11 am to 3 pm, and 
oil Thursday, will be in Kiltie 
(Jourt from 11 am to 1 pm.
| Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Meeting times 
will soon be set up for requests for 
funding and recognition.
; Public Relations (Shawn 
Knight): Commendations to Cam­
pus Affairs on the Food for 
Tjhought project. A post was made 
tj) cmu.misc.jobs for a new secre­
tary.
I Rules (Greg Haverkamp): 
Rooking for more comments on 
the draft of the bylaws.
I Ex-Officio Reports:
! AB (Brian Papa): September 
£8th, Friday Night, at 8 pm: De 
La Soul free in Skibo Ballroom.
! SDC: No report.
'¦ Greek Council: Sorority Rush 
is on. Dry Rush for the fraterni­
ties starts Sunday.
¦ Student Affairs (Tim Foster): 
International, Events, previe}}!, 
forthcoming. Saturday, October 
3, the Skills for Leadership pro­
gram will occur, open to all inter­
ested students. There will be a 
keynote speech and various semi­
nars to choose from. Watch for 
posters.
; Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): In September, Faculty
”Correction.
Senate discusses academic integ­
rity. In October, President 
Mehrabian will be addressing 
Faculty Senate.
Officer Reports:
President (Natalie Gesmond): 
Office hours for week of Sept. 10 
from 9-10 pm Thursday night. 
New name plate in Skibo Office 
to read “Student Government.” If 
anyone is interested in present­
ing material on behalf of Student 
Government for Parents Week­
end during the weekend of Oct. 
30 Nov. 1, please see me. We are 
looking for more student involve­
ment this year. The Student Men­
tor Program is up and running. A 
letter of interest is being sent out 
this week to all upperclassmen in 
H&SS, CFA, and IM to be men­
tors for the first year students. 
[...] Questions or Comments? 
Contact me during office hours at 
Stud. Gov’t, office at x2115 or at 
my residence at x4935. Again, 
welcome back and I look forward 
to working with you this aca­
demic year.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): No 
new allocations, will be setting 
up a meeting with Michael Loomis 
of F&R and the Voices United 
Gospel Choir soon.
Chair (Matt McGarvey): There 
is a vacant seat in the Miscella­
neous Students position. Stu­
dents from the Information Net­
working Institute or any other- 
body without representation in 
the other schools interested in 
serving on Senate should contact 
Senate officers.
Old Business: None.
New Business:
Senator Knauer moved the fol­
lowing resolution:
“Whereas the United States 
Environmental Protection 
Agency has recently found that 
secordary cigarette smoke is car­
cinogenic, and 
“Whereas Carnegie Mellon 
University has officially stated 
in the 1988 Smoking Policy that,
, “Tobacco smoke, whether inhaled 
directly by a tobacco smoker, or 
indirectly by a person in the gen­
eral vicinity of a smoker, is a 
danger to one’s health,” and 
“Whereas there are many stu­
dents, who do not smoke that 
wish to protect themselves from 
inhaling carcinogenic fumes and 
feel they cannot do so under the
current Smoking Policy, and 
“Whereas these students, due 
to their involvement in an orga­
nization where smoking is per­
mitted, are forced to place them­
selves in a hazardous situation, 
and
“Whereas the Student Senate 
of Carnegie Mellon University 
fully supports the rights of indi­
viduals to be able to work in and 
enjoy a safe environment,
“Be it resolved that from this 
date forward, cigarette smoking 
within any student organization’s 
office space or indoor meeting 
space is prohibited.
“Be it further resolved that ciga­
rette smoking at any indoor ac­
tivity sponsored by a student or­
ganization is prohibited.
“Be it also recommended that 
Carnegie Mellon University pro­
hibit smoking in any buildings on 
campus, including academic 
buildings, dining areas, and all 
other indoor areas that are used 
by students.
“Be it further recommended 
that the Carnegie Mellon Police 
be. empowered to levy a $50 fine 
against all violators of the smok­
ing policy"
Motion was made to refer this 
to Campus Affairs. In the eyes of 
the chair it passed.
Senator Tomblyn moved the 
following resolution condemning 
the actions of President 
Mehrabian:
Whereas, Section VHI: Change 
of the Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity Student Handbook reads 
“Before submission to the Presi­
dent for approval, any recom­
mended change should be dis­
cussed by the appropriate coun­
cils of the Faculty Senate, com­
mittees of the Student Senate, 
and the Faculty and Student Sen­
ates themselves,” and 
“Whereas, As of July 10, there 
has been a change in the 
University's Statement of Assur­
ance. The recommendation for
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
\ such an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Heidi Hoover at 
‘ , x2111, or write her in care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
YMUSIC SOCIETY
of ihe Jewish Communily Centcr 
\l992-93 RECITAL SERIES AT CARNEGIE MU SIC HALL
Sept. 20
Mstislav
ROSTROPOVICH
One of this century’s legendary cellists!
Cello
Richard
Oct. 4 GOODE Piano
His New York recital called "Best of the year." by the New York Times.
Zara
Dec. 9 KENJEBULATOVA Piuno
"...great potential, vigorous power, and a very strong presence"
-Yoel Levi, Conductor of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra
Emanuel
Jun. 19 AX Piano
."'—a keen musical intelligence and a heartfelt, unaffected interpretive style."
-Philadelphia Inquirer
this change comes from the Hu­
man Relations Commission, and 
“Whereas, Section VIII: Change 
continues: “At such time as the 
University is not in session, the 
President may promulgate poli­
cies or regulations but will be 
responsive to subsequent sugges­
tions for revision or review when 
the full campus community is 
available,” and 
“Whereas, officials of the Stu­
dent Senate were indeed “avail­
able” for consultation while the 
University was “not in session” 
yet were not only not consulted, 
but were also, as recently as Fri­
day, September 4, still not offi­
cially informed of this change in 
the Statement of Assurance, and 
“Whereas, of all the University 
regulations to be amended, not 
one is as important as or affects 
as many members of the campus 
community as our Statement of 
Assurance, and 
“Whereas, this recognized im­
portance of the Statement of As­
surance requires a greater sense
of responsibility and sensitivity 
on the part of our President; there­
fore,
“Be it resolved by the Student 
Senate of Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity on this Tuesday, Septem­
ber 8,1992:
“That the Student Senate 
condems the hasty and irrespon­
sible action of President Robert 
Mehrabian regarding this amend­
ment to the University's State­
ment of Assurance, and 
“That Senate calls upon the 
President to be appropriately ‘re­
sponsive to subsequent sugges­
tions for revision and review’ now 
that the ‘full campus community 
is available,’ and 
“That Senate demands that 
President Robert Mehrabian 
show a greater sense of responsi­
bility and sensitivity to the whole 
of the campus community in fu­
ture decisions regarding Univer­
sity policy that affects each mem­
ber.”
Motion to refer this resolution 
back to ExComm failed.
Motion to refer this resolution 
to Academic Affairs passed (9-7- 2).
Points of Discussion:
Represention of political plat­
forms at voter registration sites, 
sites of the UDC and publicitiy 
hearings, poster policy pertain­
ing to bulletin board use, and 
Student Senate absenteeism all 
discussed.
Announcements:
On September 26, the Student 
Environmental Action Coalition 
will have Campus Green Group 
training on voter registration and 
environmental issues.
Campus Affairs Committee 
meeting this week will be 6 pm 
outside the Student Government 
Office Tuesday night, but will 
regularly be at 6:30.[...]
Those with questions on recy­
cling, contact Josh Knauer 
through the Housing Office.
Submitted by 
SHAWN KNIGHT 
Edited by 
MIKE KEATING
Florence
Feb. 17 QUIVAR Mezzo-soprano
"...intense chamber music-like tonal quality and interpretation."
-Berliner Morgen post
Jon
Mur. 7 KIMURA PARKER Piano
"He seems incapable of making a harsh or unmusical sound."
-Seattle Times
Joshua
Apr. 10 BELL Violin
• pays unabashed homage to the old school of the romantic virtuoso."
-Newsday
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTIONS ONLY $55
(No student rates on single tickcts.)
SUBSCRIBE NOW CALL 521-8010
VmMerm ,lMInCm7I 7mIl8frnlMI
RESOLUTIONS, from page 1
rette smoking to be banned from any student 
organization’s office space or indoor meeting 
space. It would also prohibit smoking at any 
indoor activity sponsored by a student organiza*- 
tion, and recommends that the University disal­
low smoking in any building on campus, includ­
ing academic buildings and dining areas. The 
resolution was referred to the Campus Affairs 
Committee.
Knauer feels that the smoking policy on cam­
pus is not up to date with current health stan­
dards set by the U.S. government.
Knauer cites the EPA’s findings that second­
hand Bmoke is carcinogenic, and that smoko 
travels in enclosed areas, as support for an anti­
smoking policy on campus. “I strongly believe 
that the rights of non-smokers outweigh those of 
smokers due to the fact that smokers are making 
a conscious decision to harm their bodies, whereas 
non-smokers have made the decision to keep the 
air they breathe clean,” said Knauer.
Knauer’s proposed resolution is not without 
precedent. The University of Toxas has banned 
smoking on campus along with several other 
universities across the continent.
The third resolution was proposod by Senator 
Greg Haverkamp and passed.
This resolution sots regulations for student 
organizations on probation. In short, the 
ExComm must, approve all meetings, practices, 
social gatherings, or other events conducted by 
the probationary organization, and has the right 
to commission an audit of the group's financial 
records without notice.
In addition, the organization must routinely 
report the number of Carnogio Mellon students 
maintaining membership in the organization to 
ExComm, along with a current list of names of 
all members of the organization who are not 
CMU students. If the group is found in violation 
of these rules, Senato can suspond the recogni­
tion of the organization ponding an investiga­
tion.
a bonus book that’s good for free 
software, a free PC link cable 
and hundreds of dollars back 
on applications-like electrical 
and mechanical engineering— 
memory cards, training tools, 
games, and HP’s infrared printer. 
It’s a really big offer. Worih more 
than $500. And it’s going to 
make your HP 48 calculator even 
more valuable to you. The free 
serial cable lets you exchange 
information with your PC: And 
the free software disk lets you 
enter and plot equations easily, 
do 3D plotting, and analyze 
polynomials.
C1002 Hewlett-Packard Company PG12203B
There’s a lot more than a great 
calculator waiting for you when 
you purchase an IIP48SX or an 
HP48S between June 1,1992, 
and October 31,1992. You’ll get
\»\

---------------------------------------------------

(HJy +^’nl<5 dll I ever do if go
through 'phdsei! 'You changed your major 
again ? Nov-/ if i’ fthh/c Pa nee far/w/ ? vV/ie/i 
are you going to come to your feiifef and 
pick Someth¡ng fehflble ? (ftgK) [Veil, I
guetf iff juff another phdfe.' 5o Ifo/d Aer, 
vGiVe m6 a break Ma.l mean I kept the 
fame phone company a//£>ur year/... 
Ske wai impretfed.1'
o matter what phase of college life you’re in, AT&T can help you through it. Just choose AT&T Long Dis­tance. And you’ll become a member of AT&T Student Saver Plus, a line of products and services designed specifically to meet your needs while you’re in college.
J+uden-t- Javerpkr 
for off- Campuj 
. Student?
no matter when and where you call. Call Manager will separate your AT&T Long Distance calls from those your roommates make. The AT&T Calling Card lets you call from almost anywhere to anywhere. Also, when you sign up for AT&T, your first call is free* And with AT&T, you’ll get the most reliable long distance service.Our Reach Out* Plans can save you money on AT&T Long Distance,So ask about AT&T Student Saver Plus. You too, will be impressed.
If you’re an off-campus student, sign up for 
AI&T Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 848.AT&T
IJ A1AT ID iViutair njumVnl u> U mlid wrirrJ alltnR tuw\! on run rflcxtivr Uu (wli pnr ulim >uu all Oder limnnl to one cntifnu per »uJcnt
u

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 EwwpT
Crime and Incident Report
9/4 MEDICAL ESCORT, 3:41 
am. A medical escort was given to 
a man who had injured his foot 
jumping over the railing at “some 
frat.” He was taken to Presbyte­
rian Hospital.
9/4 VANDALISM, 11:26 am. 
Campus Police responded to a 
report of vandalism at DHC-200. 
The item vandalized was a stor­
age cage, the frame of which had 
been pulled away from the wall.
9/4 MEDICAL ESCORT,
12:40 pm. A medical escort was 
given to a young woman who had 
injured her foot on Flagstaff Hill 
in Schenley Park. She was taken 
to Presbyterian Hospital.
9/4 ROBBERY, 1:20 pm. A 
theft was reported in HBH A109. 
Five dollars was stolen. The room 
was unlocked and the victim’s 
bagwas onthefloor. Nothing else 
was taken.
9/4 ROBBERY, 8:02 pm. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of robbery from MM 119. The 
item stolen was a backpack con­
taining many items, the value of 
which was $300. The backpack 
itself was valued at $45.00.
9/4 ROBBERY, 9:17 pm. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of robbery from a bicycle locked to 
the Morewood E-tower bike rack. 
The wheels had been removed 
from the bicycle.
9/4 HARASSMENT BY COM­
MUNICATION, 11:50 pm. A fe­
male student reported having 
received several anonymous 
phone calls, with heavy breath­
ing and the caller stating “I love 
you.” The victim could not deter­
mine if the caller was male or 
female.
9/5 ROBBERY, 1:02 am. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of robbery from a bicycle locked to 
the railing outside of Baker Hall 
135. The items stolen from the 
bike were the saddle, valued at 
$40, and the pedals, valued at $20.
9/5 THEFT, 1:42 am. While on 
routine patrol, a guard noticed 
two males on the loading areas 
behind Skibo with milk crates in 
their hands. Upon questioning, 
the pair claimed to have been told 
they could take the crates, but 
could not provide the name of 
who had given them permission. 
The two were cited for theft.
9/5 INTOXICATION, 4:33 am. 
While on routine patrol, a guard
noticed an individual lying on the 
lawn on the Forbes side of 
Morewood E-tower. The indi­
vidual was visiting a CMU stu­
dent, and was too intoxicated to 
function. He was transported to 
Duquesne University, where he 
is a student.
9/5 MEDICAL ESCORT, 5:02 
am. A medical escort was pro­
vided to a male student who had 
been suffering extreme stomach 
painsfortwo hours. He was taken 
to Presbyterian ER.
9/5 VANDALISM, 7:45 am. 
Two smashed computers were 
found in the Wean Hall stairwell. 
The debris was scattered from 
the machines all over the 400 
hallway between the third and 
sixth floors. It was later deter­
mined that the computers were 
outdated and were in the hallway 
awaiting removal.
9/5 MEDICAL ESCORT, 4:21 
pm. A female student who called 
stating she was suffering from a 
possible kidney or bladder infec­
tion was taken to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
9/5 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,
9:56 pm. CMU police stopped an 
individual carrying a cup with a 
straw and a lid walking in the 
Skibo driveway. The individual 
was asked to submit to a Field 
Beverage Check, and it was found 
that the cup contained a mixed 
alcoholic beverage.
9/6 INDECENT EXPOSURE,
1:16 am. Two female Pitt stu­
dents reported that they had been 
the victims of indecent exposure. 
The women reported that a man 
wearing blue jogging shorts and 
carrying a sweatshirt stopped 
them and asked them where “the 
towers” were. The man then 
pulled his sweatshirt aside to re­
veal that he was exposing him­
self. The women fled.
9/6 UNWANTED PERSON,
3:34 am. Campus Police re­
sponded to a call of an unwanted 
person on the patio of a frater­
nity. The brothers felt there was 
a possibility that the man might 
have a gun. When the police ar­
rived, the man started walking 
away. He was stopped, and when 
it was ascertained that he was 
unarmed, he was sent on his way.
9/6 MEDICAL ESCORT, 1:41
pm. Amedical escort was given to 
a young man who had entered 
the police office in Baker Hall. 
He had stopped by the office with 
the purpose of obtaining said es­
cort as he had been feeling ill for 
two days. He was taken to Pres­
byterian Hospital.
9/6 THEFT, 8:40 pm. Campus 
Police responded to a report of 
robbery from an unlocked desk 
drawer in the CFA second floor 
architecture studio. The items 
stolen were three compact discs.
9/6 THEFT, 9:02 pm. Campus 
police responded to a report of 
robbery from an unlocked desk 
drawer in the CFA second floor 
architecture studio. The item sto­
len was a Walkman.
9/6 MEDICAL ESCORT,
10:36 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a student who had 
been suffering abdominal pains. 
She was taken to Presbyterian 
ER.
9/6INDECENT EXPOSURE,
11:12 pm. A woman reported that 
she was the victim of indecent 
exposure. As the woman was 
standing at a stop sign, a heavyset 
man pulled up and asked her for 
directions. As the woman ap­
proached the vehicle, she saw that 
the man was exposed and mas­
turbating. He asked her, “Can 
you handle this?” The woman got 
away from the car which then 
drove off.
9/6 MEDICAL ESCORT,
11:12 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a fraternity brother 
who had injured his thumb. He 
was taken to Shadyside Hospi­
tal, at his request.
9/7 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 1:54 am. Campus Police 
responded to a call of a possible 
fight at the back door of a frater­
nity. The caller stated that a group 
of people were trying to force their 
way back into the party that was 
going on at the time.
A group of approximately nine 
people was stopped on Morewood 
Avenue. After questioning, it was 
determined that the group had 
been at the party for an hour and 
a half before a personality con­
flict arose among some of the 
brothers and some members of 
the group.
There was some shoving, but
no punches were thrown.
9/7 MEDICAL ESCORT, 2:03 
pm. A medical escort was pro­
vided for a student who had been 
suffering cold-like symptoms for 
the past three weeks.
She was taken to Presbyterian
Hospital.
9/11 INTOXICATION, 2:32 
am. CMU police were notified by 
Pitt police of their possession of a 
CMU student who was highly 
intoxicated. When the student 
was awakened he told the Pitt
police that it was his 21st birth­
day and he had been colebrating. 
The subject was transported to a 
CMU fraternity. He sustained a 
3" to 4" cut on the side of his face 
of unknown origin.
Compiled by 
MIIKE WALKER
CUBA AND YOUNG PEOPLE TODAY
Government Books & More!Send for your free catalog 
Free Catalog
Box 37000 
Washingcon DC 20013-7000
A Special Event Featuring:
Ibis AlviS3l Gonzales, Centro de Estudios de la Juwntud
Jose Antonio Concepcion Rangel, Bnguiiu Tecnias iuvmiia
The speakers are part of a U.S. Tour of Cuban Youth. They will discuss 
how young people are confronting the economic crisis in Cuba as well as 
vouth's struggles for women's liberation and against racism. Learn also 
about the role of Cuban youth in the defeat of the South African apartheid 
army. Discuss why the United States government continues to impose an 
economic embargo on Cuba,
Wednesday, Sept. 16 7:00 - 9:00 pm 
100 Porter Hall
Funded Bv Your Student Activities Fee
WinonaI Tour ^ponvir: Faculty and Students Coordinating Committee for Campus Lectures of Cuban 
Youth, Borough of Manhattan Community College, New York
2m8mF7erm P7eCnrnlM
iw.,tha ßa|four
28eII BnMcY
College memories can last a lifetime, when they’re preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation and custom school designs can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of excellence since 1931 !
Order yours on:
Thursday, Sept. 17.....................Baker Hall. 10am - 4pm
Friday, Sept. 18................The Carnegie Shoppe, I Ham - 4pm
A $35 deposit is required.
Balfour* No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
2sSV hen8I rl ommr 
mbDm,rernlMI J ecenM
"if THU IS rHe EXF^s5 1 womfitATs -P see
f\\t l-OC-Al K
Letters to the Editor
“How ’bout those new meal plans?” Whenever you talk to an administrator, especially one in CMDS, that phrase is a common refrain. But the people who ran CMDS usually gloss over one thing: dining services on the CMU campus are still woefully inadequate.Before this year, the a la carte service in Morewood Café was a favorite of students, especially those who lived on the Morewood end of campus, as well as those who paid cash for their meals. Now, since CMDS redesigned the eating facility, all of those students who would like to sit down and eat a meal, as opposed to fast food, are forced to go to ! Highlander, not exactly everyone’s favorite food service facility, especially if they aren’t on a meal plan. CMDS is trying to recover some of the money it lost last year by limiting a student’s choice to those services that will be profitable, or at least cheaper for CMDS.For some reason, the powers- that-be have decided that stu­dents in Morewood Gardens and Mudge House still have no need for food before 7 pm on the week­ends, and then the only thing that they will want to eat is Taco Bell.It is wonderful that there is a franchise on campus — some­thing many students requested , last year when CMDS did its oh- so-thorough research — but CMDS is turning it into another second-rate food service facility. It is not unreasonable for a stu-
Newspapers in general are relatively predictable — there’s the news section, the sports sec­tion, and the comics, usually along with living and entertain­ment sections. Often, there is very little opportunity to respond to what we see in print—unless you count talking to the USA 
Today in the Tartan Grill over coffee and bagels in the morn­ing. At The Tartan, we find a lot of value in the exchange and even the frequent clash of ideas. The Forum pages are our way of fostering free speech, so we try to provide a spectrum of opin­ions to allow you, our readers, to be the judges. To that end, you’ll find the following written pieces in this section:• Editorials always appear in the leftmost columns of the first Forum page. They are unsigned because they represent a con­sensus opinion of The Tartan’s editorial board.While we believe our editori­als offer sensible, accurate com­mentary, please feel free to dis­agree with us — we don’t have a monopoly on the truth. As a matter of fact, we would like to know what you think of what we think. An excellent opportunity to do just that is by writing a Letter to the Editor.• Letters to the Editor may be written by anybody, although when space gets tight we will favor those from members of the University community. As read­ers, you should realize that opin-
dent who pays for Taco Bell food to expect Taco Bell quality — to expect that the food will be put together properly at least. There is also no quality control—when it’s not busy, the food piles up until the burritos get hard, and when it is busy, there is never enough food prepared.The Taco Bell facility could be very convenient for those who want to grab something on the run, but not if it is never open when people need that food. Expanding Taco Bell hours into the evening during the week and into the afternoon on the week­end would certainly convey that CMDS is concerned about pro­viding students with what they need, instead of what makes their budget prettier at the end of the fiscal year.The new name, The Corner Oven, seems to be one of the few things that changed about the Italian place in the corner of Morewood Cafeteria. The French bread pizza is good, and the se­lection of toppings is much wider now, but the regular pizza looks suspiciously like MorePizza pizza — not a compliment to any pizza.What CMDS should have done is left Morewood Cafeteria alone — put Taco Bell in where The Corner Oven seems to be dying a slow and painful death, and let students have the one dining service facility that they liked back. Since this is not likely to happen, CMDS should take a good look at the Morewood facil­ity and fix it before it gets worse.
ions represented in a letter are those of the author and not of The Tartan. All letters are sub­ject to editing for size — letters shouldn’t be more than 350 words anyway — and for gram­mar. But we never edit a letter for content.Of course, we reserve the right to reject letters we feel are libel­ous, obscene, or incoherent. But we’ll be glad to discuss any let­ter with the author and see if we can’t reach a compromise. How­ever, in order to have such a discussion, we need to know who you are. We are willing to with­hold names from letters to the editor, but our editor-in-chief does need to know who wrote them.Please, don’t send us anony­mous letters — it just makes us gnash our teeth, because we have no way to contact the author, and you gnash your teeth be­cause your letter didn’t get pub­lished.• Columns are regularly ap­pearing opinions presented by individuals who are usually members of the CMU commu­nity. Opinions in these columns are those of the columnist and not of The Tartan. Again, feel free to disagree with them — and to let them know.That about sums up the Fo­rum section. We hope it makes for some thought-provoking reading, and we’re always open to suggestions for ways to im­prove it.
Student Senate needs to 
fund diversity on campus
Editor:
The Voices United 
Gospel Choir (VUGC) 
should be returned to 
full funding status as 
soon as practically pos­
sible. It’s true enough that Christian 
themes are part of the choir’s reason for 
existence, gospel music being what it is. 
But the article failed to mention that, 
through the years, Jews and atheists as 
well as every stripe of Christian (per­
haps Muslims as well) have been part of 
this choir. Though some may not have 
agreed with the prayers that were said, 
they still were respectful of them, in 
deference to this one of many traditions 
which forms the rich diversity of Carn­
egie Mellon. Christianity is not required 
to be part of VUGC any more than being 
African American is a requirement to be 
in Spirit or being gay is a requirement to 
be in cmuOUT.
If Student Senate is to remain com­
mitted to diversity on the Carnegie Mel­
lon campus, then we should be funding 
all student groups, not cutting off fund­
ing for those “who could be offensive to 
someone” as Laefer has suggested. There 
are plenty of other groups funded by 
Student Senate who most certainly are 
offensive to other people on campus, and 
no one is questioningtheir funding. Car­
negie Mellon is not a public institution, 
and there is no law that forbids support 
of organizations which perform religious 
acts, so long as they do not discriminate 
against anyone. If the Voices Diversified 
Atheist Choir were formed, I would also 
support funding ofthis. If our only crite­
ria of funding is whether something is
offensive to Laefer or not, then CMU will 
cease to be a place of freedom of religion 
and freedom of speech.
Although I am a former member of the 
Voices United Gospel Choir, I do not 
speak for them, nor do I speak at their 
request.
Steve Timm
Graduate student, Physics
Community invited to vote 
for educational awards
Editor:
We are delighted to 
invite members of the 
community to nomi­
nate members of the 
faculty and adminis­
tration for the University’s two major 
educational awards: the Robert M. 
Doherty award for educational excel­
lence and the William H. and Frances S. 
Ryan award for undergraduate teach­
ing. Proposals for nominations in the 
form of a letter of at most two single 
spaced pages are due October 30. Last 
year’s Doherty prize was won by Joel 
Tarr, Robert Richard S. Caliguiri Pro­
fessor of Urban Studies; last year’s Ryan 
award was won by Linda Kauffman, 
senior lecturer in Biological Sciences.
The Doherty Prize is awarded to mem­
bers of the community who have made 
substantial and sustained contributions 
to excellence in education. The prize is 
intended to recognize contributions to 
the development, implementation, and 
evaluation of education programs at all 
levels, and to the creation and mainte­
nance of an environment that fosters 
excellence in education. All current and
retired full-time employees of the Uni­
versity are eligible to be nominated.
The Ryan Award, is intended to recog­
nize excellence in teaching undergradu­
ates in several dimensions. They in­
clude classroom teaching, student ad­
vising, supervision of undergraduate 
research or creative projects, and super­
vision of undergraduate honors students. 
All regular Carnegie Mellon faculty 
members are eligible for nomination.
Nominations may be made by any 
group of at least three persons, each of 
whom is either a current or retired fac­
ulty member or a current or former full­
time undergraduate or graduate stu­
dent. Nominations should be in the form 
of a letter of no more than two pages 
addressed to Barbara Lazarus for the 
Doherty Prize Committee (EDSH 209) 
or Susan Ambrose for the Ryan Commit­
tee (EDSH 205). Nominations must be 
received by Friday, October 30, 1992 to 
be considered for this academic year. 
When a nominee is a frnalist, the 
proposer(s) will be asked to assist in 
preparing a full nomination package.
We look forward to receiving nomina­
tions from students, faculty, and admin­
istrators. Guidelines or advice regard­
ing the Doherty Prize are available from 
Barbara Lazarus, EDSH 209, x6995, 
regarding the Ryan Award from Susan 
Ambrose, EDSH 205, x2896. Copies of 
the Doherty and Ryan guidelines are 
also available in the academic depart­
ments and at the Skibo information desk.
Barbara B. Lazarus
Director of University Teaching
Center
Susan A. Ambrose
Associate Provost for Academic
Projects
Political similarities cause uncertainty
C^suus
^ChristiarUVI^estifo
The reason why politicians 
spend millions of dollars on 
their campaigns is not to win 
the votes of the majority of 
their respective parties but to 
woo the moderates. Yes, when 
the rhetoric flies, it’s all aimed 
at the ones who are maybe a 
little conservative, maybe a 
little liberal, but more con­
cerned about effectiveness 
and balance than towing the 
party line. In other words, 
they are trying to gamer the 
swing vote because the defi­
nite liberals and conservatives 
are already decided.
When one looks at the cur­
rent senatorial race in Penn­
sylvania, however, this neat 
little model completely breaks 
down. No longer do we have 
clearly drawn lines between 
the Republican and Demo­
cratic candidates. The 
Clarence Thomas hearings, 
the abortion debate, and a host 
of other issues have made the 
decision between incumbent 
Senator Arlen Specter and 
challenger Lynn Yeakel a 
messy situation indeed. For
now, both conservatives and 
liberals who were previously 
loyal to their respective par­
ties are asking themselves 
some hard questions.
Like Democratic Governor 
Bob Casey, Specter has bro­
ken trust with his own party
support Bush’s plan to finance 
“experimental schools” and 
offer vouchers for poorer 
people to have the choice to 
send their children to private 
schools, Specter opposed a bill 
in January that would have 
createdsuch a system. Yeakel,
If a Pennsylvanian is strongly 
pro-life, no candidate exists. If 
one is pro-choice, the issue 
presents a cloudy appearance.
and taken a pro-choice stance. 
Yeakel is also pro-choice. Thus, 
we have two strenuous situa­
tions. If a Pennsylvanian is 
strongly pro-life, no candidate 
exists. If one is pro-choice, the 
issue presents a cloudy ap­
pearance.
According to an article in 
TheNew York Times, however, 
it appears as though abortion 
will not be the major issue on 
the minds of voters trying to 
make sense of things. Other 
issues like the economy, health 
care, and education take pre­
cedence as the major players.
Here, too, we encounter grey 
areas concerning the differ­
ences between the candidates. 
Atypical of Republicans who
on the other hand, outlined a 
comprehensive plan for edu­
cation. This plan included in­
creased federal funding of such 
programs as Head Start, nu­
trition assistance programs, 
national testing, and empha­
sis onmath, science, andliteracy.
When all is said and done, 
however, the Anita Hill issue 
still remains as the one major 
point that both candidates 
must deal with. The anger 
among women that Specter 
helped generate assisted in 
propelling Yeakel onto the 
Democratic ticket. Likewise, 
it has provided yet another 
outlet for the anti-incumbency 
feeling that many voters har­
bor. Are voters doing them-
selves a disservice, though? 
Is Yeakel, as many critics 
have called her, a one-issue 
candidate?
Angered by Specter’s treat­
ment of Hill during the Tho­
mas ordeal, many women feel 
as though Specter doesn’t 
take women seriously. Con­
sequently, they argue, Spec­
ter must not give much cre­
dence to sexual harassment 
and other topics of impor­
tance to women. When the 
equation is worked out, 
Yeakel becomes the obvious 
solution.
Or is she? While Specter 
has a fairly moderate and 
possibly even slightly liberal 
record, he has also supported 
family leave legislation. Like­
wise, many conservative Re­
publicans will not let him for­
get that he was the major 
reason Robert Bork never 
became a Supreme Court jus­
tice. And he is openly con­
fronting anger about his 
treatment of Hill.
What then about Specter 
and his political relationship 
to Yeakel? If Specter can 
openly talk to women about 
his decisions and use his 
record to at least abaie ha­
tred of him, he will take 
Please see ISSUES, page 7
&l7fo D7lgnCmI e7mMe 
hl7 lDnMnlMIx CnI,fIInlM
!mrrm7 rl rFl kCnrl7 Ph,m Pe7reM VunFl ve88 Vq
Letter to 
the Editor
Letter to the EditorEEG Pe7reM VunFl ve88 hnl
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmomFm7 EwwpR
smoFm7I lh 2lMc7mII MmmC Dm7uIx Mlr mhhn,nmM,4
Volluom Ve 87,I,s7
Suppose you had the opportu­
nity to become a member of the 
U.S. Congress. Would you take 
the job? The pay is pretty good, 
and the retirement benefits are 
quite attractive. Washington, 
D.C. is a nice place to live. It 
seems your standard of living 
would be high. If you’re status- 
concious, then the job has poten­
tial for you. There aren’t many 
different levels of salary, but you 
still have upward mobility; you 
can work your way up from a 
junior position on some not-so- 
significant committee to a senior 
position on a very powerful com­
mittee.
If money and power aren’t your 
aim, then you’ll need to consider 
your prospective employer more 
carefully and decide if the job will 
be challenging, fulfilling, and
possible. After you do, money and 
power might look a lot more ap­
pealing. What about the em­
ployer? Officially speaking, you 
would work for the U.S. Govern­
ment, but your primary boss 
would be the group of citizens in 
your congressional district, your 
constituents. Chances are good 
that these people will come to 
like you. Polls taken over the past 
few years indicate that most folks 
think their member of Congress 
is doing a fine job. Ifyou would be 
responsible only to your constitu­
ent group, the job could prove to 
be very pleasant.
Unfortunately, you are respon­
sible to the other constituent 
groups, too, because your job de­
scription isn’t well stated. In ad­
dition to representing your con­
stituents, you will be asked to 
look after the “national interest.”
Nobody is too sure how to de­
fine the “national interest,” but 
whatever it is, your constituents’ 
won’t like it most of the time. 
Given the choice between voting 
in the national interest and in
the interest of your constituents, 
you’ll know which way to go. You’ll 
know who elected you.
Unfortunately, constituents of 
other members of Congress will 
be paying attention to the na­
tional interest, and they won’t 
like your self-serving voting. They 
will remind you, as polls have 
been doing for quite some time, 
that Congress is a corrupt, inept, 
unethical organization. They will 
tell you to speak to your constitu­
ents and remind them of John 
Kennedy’s words: “Ask not what 
your country can do for you; ask 
what you can do for your coun­
try.”
Of course, you won’t be able to 
lecture your constituents. Rather, 
you’ll need to ask yourself how to 
get fellow Americans in other dis­
tricts to pay for projects and tax 
breaks in your district without 
asking anything in return. It 
seems that in making your con­
stituents happy, you’ll make ev­
erybody else unhappy. But that’s 
the way it goes — you work for 
those who elected you. If your
constituents don’t get what they 
want, they may not re-elect you.
If your constituents thought 
about the national interest, 
things could be different. If they 
got their information by careful 
examination of issues, things 
could be different. But chances 
are good that they won’t pay 
much attention to what you’re 
doing until it’s time for re-elec­
tion. Then, they’ll get their in­
formation about the job you’ve 
been doing from TV commer­
cials run by your opponent. You’ll 
have to run commercials, too, so 
you’ll have to depend on your 
political party and on special 
interest groups for the cash to 
make the commercials and buy 
air time.
Accepting this money has a 
cost. Just as soon as you think 
that you’ve figured out a way to 
balance the national interest 
with the interest of your con­
stituents, your party will give 
you another constraint: The 
other party is always wrong, no 
matter how good their ideas may
be. Special interest groups will 
ask you to vote for spending that 
you know is not good for the coun­
try — sometimes not even good 
for your district. But you will toe 
the line so that voters will get to 
see the right scenes and hoar the 
right sound bites when election 
time comes; your voting record 
will be less important than the 
way it is presented.
After you’ve been re-elected, 
you can work on getting that new 
committee position and that ad­
ditional “gift” from a political 
friend. What about serving your 
constituents? The election’s over; 
they won’t be paying attention.
So, would you want the job? If 
you like power and perks, go for 
it. If you want to accomplish 
something, forget it. The job de­
scription is vague, and the em­
ployers don’t know what they 
want. Agreeing to work for them 
is asking for trouble.
Jeff Basista is graduate stu­
dent in English who is busy look­
ing for more cheerful subject matter.
Vr7lMc nCml8lc4 MmmCmC hl7 D7mInCmMrne8 m8m,rnlMI
3e Ce arInn
People vote for a specific presidential 
candidate for a variety of different rea­
sons. Some are one-issue voters, like pro- 
choice and pro-life advocates, others vote 
the party line, and many swing from po­
litical party to political party based on 
conditions during a particular election 
year.
I vote based on an ideology that I have 
developed over the last several years. The 
way election polls swing up and down 
twenty points in both directions over a 
course of months and even days indicates 
that there are a lot of people that are easily 
swayed from one candidate to another. 
Looking at the schism of a Democratic 
Congress and Republican President illus­
trates the: point that a large number of 
people do not vote based on set principles. 
People tend to vote on the best deal being 
offered at the moment. This leads to elec­
tions based on mindless political games. If 
more voters developed a strong ideology of 
how the government should be run, it 
would force politicians to take the elector­
ate a little more seriously.
The cynicism of the day says there is little 
difference between political parties and the 
candidates, and that politicians are inher­
ently suspect people. The way to get better 
government is for each voter to decide the 
type of government that is desired, not 
which candidate promises the most at the 
time.
There is a big difference between the 
Democrats and the Republicans, but the 
differences are not always so clear. The 
Republicans are seen as the party of the 
rich, while the Democrats have the image 
of looking after the interests of the average 
American. Neither of these characteriza­
tions is accurate.
The Democrats try to play to the needs 
of every group in America. The Democratic 
convention showed this point when Clinton 
tried to act like a pro-business Republican 
and at the same time showing all the signs 
of a bleeding-heart liberal — promising 
everybody everything they wanted. The 
only thing the Democrats represent is big 
government. Promise after promise was 
made about education, health care, the 
environment, and plenty of the other social 
concerns. They also promised jobs and 
growth in the economy. Something for ev­
eryone — after all they are the “party of 
inclusion.”
The Democrats cannot deliver all that
they have promised. Even if they manage 
to get the programs runningthere is little 
doubt in my mind that the weight of 
bureaucracy will guarantee its failure 
like most government programs. And the 
most important question is who is going 
to pay for these programs? The rich, of 
course. The “rich,” however, includes the 
upper middle class. Thus, under Demo­
cratic ideology, you fit into their ideas 
until you achieve economic success. You 
then become the enemy and the focus of 
the party’s contempt. It is disturbing to 
know that their power is based on the 
failure of individuals, not their success.
The Democratic view promotes the idea 
that fairness and success can be legis­
lated. Failure is considered a function of 
circumstance rather than individual 
choices. This type ofideology doesn’t push 
the country ahead, but condemns us to 
trying to fix inequities that can only re­
ally be changed through individual and 
local community initiative.
The Republicans offer something quite 
different. Republican ideology suggests 
that the less government does, the better 
the country will operate. The govern­
ment still needs to play a role in making 
sure the system keeps working, but not 
by having the government try to solve the 
problems of every individual.
The Republican party recognizes that
the government cannot guarantee the 
success of every individual, but wishes 
to supply the opportunities for success. 
That opportunity comes from invest­
ment of capital into the economy, not 
pouring our resources into the black 
hole of government.
Detractors of the Republican ideology 
will try to discredit it by pointing to the 
current economic situation. They, how­
ever, will conveniently ignore the role of 
Congress. Congress, both the Democrats 
and Republicans, refuses to make the 
tough choices about which programs to 
cut and which ones to keep. Presidential 
ideology can never be proven unless there 
is a responsible Congress that has at 
least a similar ideology about how gov­
ernment should be run.
These are just a few of the differences 
between the political parties and the 
ideologies that matter to me. The cheap 
political shots that go back and forth are 
interesting to observe, but they don’t 
sway the ideals I am committed to. If the 
politicians knew that the electorate vote 
was based on firm commitments to ide­
als, they wouldn’t be so quick to reduce 
our political system to 30-second sound 
bites.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil engineering 
major and slightly to the right.
Congressional race clouds partisan issues
Continued from ISSUES, page 6
great deal of fire away from Yeakel’s 
campaign. Looking at things from a dif­
ferent perspective, though, supporters 
of Yeakel can contend that Specter is 
either trying to downplay an important 
issue or merely say he’s “learned his 
lesson” when, in fact, he hasn’t.
For those who have resolved to con­
sciously take a hard look at either candi­
date because both present attractive 
options, one more vexing point lingers 
— seniority. If Specter is elected to a 
third term, he will bring not only experi­
ence but also power to his position. Penn­
sylvanians will also be assured of some­
one who has been known to base his 
decisions in Congress on the current 
sentiment in the state. At the very 
least, Specter will retain his reputation 
of a hard worker who gets things done.
Opposed to this reasoning is an issue 
pointed out previously, namely the anti­
incumbency feeling amongvoters. With 
some well thought-out plans, Yeakel 
can say, “Hey, give me a chance. Unlike 
Specter, I care, and I’ve got the energy.” 
Additionally, she also has plans about 
family care that studies show many 
voters would support. Combined with 
the Hill problem, itjustmightbe enough 
to oust Specter.
One thing is for sure: it’s going to be a 
tight race. Specter has the advantage 
(and disadvantage) of incumbency, a 
moderate record, and seniority. Yeakel 
can claim voter dissatisfaction, the “new 
blood” argument, and a genuine concern 
for women. With more and more women 
realizing the power they can bring to 
bear in politics, it’s somethingthat Spec­
ter will have to account for if he wants a 
decent chance at re-election.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior chemical 
engineering major who hasn’t yet decided 
for whom he'll vote. He’ll probably decide 
at the last minute like everyone else.
We tell you what we 
think. Why don’t you tell 
us what you think?
Anyone who walks around 
campus on a sunny day has 
probably been accosted by off- 
campus venders. These can 
include credit card vendors, 
poster sellers, book sellers, 
and jewelry and clothing sell­
ers. How do you feel about 
off-campus vendors on 
campus?
“It’s lame, because every year 
it’s like, look, you ask me every 
year, like every time, like, every 
week, at least one of those are 
around right, it’s like they’re 
wasting my time, and they’re so 
pushy at times.”
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Brian Millspaw Niranjan Sundaram Beth Zimmerman
Sophomore Freshman Senior
Architecture Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering
“I think that they should go 
somewhere else, because I don’t 
have time for them.”
“I think that it’s kind of good 
because I think that students 
need to build their credit, it’s 
the best way to do it. You can get 
a credit card without having any 
credit history, without paying 
an annual fee. Soon as I turn 
eighteen, I’m going to get one.”
“Some of them are alright, the 
ones that I’m not interested in I 
just generally ignore. Other than 
that, sometimes it’s nice to have 
them around if you want some­
thing that’s right there.”
A PERSON’S
Thomasina Choi
Junior
Economics
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Motion's Student Newspaper 
Slnco 1906
EdItor-in-Chlef................Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor............M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor...........Brendan McFeely
Forum Editor................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor......................Josh Under
Features Editor...............Megan Dietz
Diversions Editor.............Marnl Borek
Calendar Editor........Tara M. Seman
Magazine Editor.....Stephen Gllcker
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor..............................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor.................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr..................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager...........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..............Chad McDaniel
Asst. Business Mgr.Sharyn Rotunno 
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua 
Asst. Forum Editors...Richard Quinn 
Ruth Rasmussen 
Asst. Sports Editors...Robby Findler 
Andy Glendinning
Asst. Features Editor......Laura Palanker
Asst. Diversions Editor........Orya Dasna
Asst. Art Editors........Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Asst. Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wahila 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstador, D.A. 
Hendorson, Ellon Hendrickson, Mark 
Hllllor, Dexter Kobayashl
Senior Staff 
Davo Martin, Christian Rostlfo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwritors 
Nlcolo Allon, Joff Basista, Trlnotto 
Chandlor, Bob Dixon, Dan Gallaghor, 
Erin Grunzko, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
Kochanskyij, Chris Maplos, Corrl 
Motz, Truptl Patol, Abby Schlff, Kelly 
Sterling, Jason Wyso, Losllo Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Ramsoy Hong, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Matt Goldberg, Drew 
Olbrich, Elliott Schlff, Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Diane 
Keen, Seth Redmore
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo, Jessica Miller, Erik 
Ogan
Copy
Erin Bailey, Molly Dalkiewicz, Lenna 
Kydes, Patricia Williams
Junior Staff 
Roshni Bhakta, Christian Borle, Kuo 
Chiang, Tony deFiglo, Bobble 
Dofflemyer, Nathan Dohm, Becky 
Elroy, And! Francioni, Madhav Ghanta, 
Michael Gibson, Otis Greene, Reid 
Hacker, Cheryl Harris, Mike Harris, 
Lauren Heinz, Mike Hofsass, Arun 
Jayakuman, Yerln Kay, Meron 
Langsner, Sung Lee, Nina Liang, Anne 
Lopez, Jackie Maher, Catherine Mar­
quis, Declan M°Cullagh, Laura 
M°Clure, Amy McGovern, Mac 
Mlrchandanl, Jenifer Mule, Dizzy 
Murphy, Mary O’Malley, Michael 
Peck, Paul Platosh, Melissa Reaves, 
Cynthia Rodriguez, Drew Shefman, 
Ben Shelton, Andrew Sproule, Jon 
Stevenson, Eric Strauss, Jason 
Togyer, llir Toska, Jen Urso, Andy 
Vaughan, Lisa Vltalbo
Tho Tartan Is tho student nowapapor of Carneglo 
Mellon Unlvorsliy. It Is o weekly npwspapor pub­
lished by students during tho fall and spring oomos- 
ters, at no cost to members of the Unlvorolty 
community. It 13 printed by Wostorn Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions aro available for tho 
semester Or academic yoar. Tho odltorlols appear­
ing at tho beginning of tho opinion section aro the 
official opinion of TJio Tartan editorial board, Col­
umns and political cartoons aro tho opinions of 
individual creators ‘ Ttio Tartan rosorvos tho right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Lottors to tho Editor aro opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, mombors of tho 
University community. A letter intondod for publica­
tion must bo signed and Includo tho v/rltor's address 
and phono number for verification. Nomos will bo 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requostn that 
letters bo no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
rosorvos the right to condonso or rojoct any lottor. 
Copyright © 1992 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan odlto* 
rial board reserves tho right to withhold from publi­
cation any copy it dooms unfit for publication,
Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 208-2111 
Mailing address: Tho Tarton/Box 17/Carnoglo 
Mellon Unlvorsity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
17 percent funded by your Activftioo Feo.
AJI rights reserved.
Ubrary of Congress ISSN II: 0890-3107,

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCING AN OPEN MEETING OF H&SS STUDENTS TO DISCUSS THE NEW H&SS GENERAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
An open meeting for H&SS students will be held on Wednesday, September 16, 1992 at 4:30 p.m. in Gregg Lecture Hall (Porter Hall 100). The purpose of the meeting is to give H&SS students an opportunity to comment on the new H&SS general education program. This proposed program is scheduled to replace the existing H&SS core curriculum beginning in the fall of 1993.
H&SS Dean Peter Stearns and Associate Dean Richard Smith will be at the meeting to listen to student comments and to answer questions about the proposed program. Interested students may obtain copies of the report that describes the new program in the H&SS Dean's Office, Baker Hall 260.
Walk In Tutoring 
Fall 1992
*SEPTEMBER 13 THROUGH DECEMBER 8
Theima gntchrn ,biebsima 
d ouvll yf
SundayChemistryWean Hall 5205PhysicsWean Hall 6423
MondayCalculusWean Hall 5403
TuesdayChemistryWean Hall 5205PhysicsWean Hall 6423
WednesdayCalculusWean Hall 5403
Walk In Tutoring is Available for Help with Entry Level Coursework.
* Sessions will not be held during Mid-Semester Break and Thanksgiving Holiday. 
For More Information, Contact Anne Witchner, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs x8704.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Senior captain Rachel Bouren fights for the ball In women's soccer action on Saturday. 
The team lost to Case Western by a score of 2-0. See story on page 11.
These men were bom to play 
hockey, and more than one 
have received 18 second-period 
stitches only to return to the 
game in the third.
A1 Maclnnis has a slapshot 
that has broken bones and 
caused goalie Peter Ing to 
throw off his catching glove in 
pain. Sabers goalie Clint 
Malarchuck, in a scuffle at the 
goal crease, stood up with a 
slashed jugular vein.
The fact is that hockey is a 
tough sport, in every position, 
and in the NHL, Rheaume will 
face goal crashing, “rubbing,” 
and slapshots that travel 140 
miles per hour. She may very 
well be a great goalie, but she 
can’t escape the brutal physical 
play that accompanies the 
NHL. She will need more than 
skill — she will need a man’s 
. strength. This is one area 
where women are not equal to 
men. To quote anti-feminist 
Camile Paglia, “[women] can 
not escape the biological chains 
that bind them.”
It’s not that females shouldn’t 
play hockey; it’s simply not fair 
to the woman. The sad part is 
that the Lightning Manage­
ment is well aware of these 
facts. In my opinion, the Light­
ning, an expansion team which 
will make its debut this fall, is 
in search of fan support. Demo- 
graphically speaking, the 
average attendance at an NHL 
game is 45 percent female. 
Rheaume is the key to unlock­
ing this support. A move like 
this can go far to establishing a 
newly franchised team. In 
short, she is being used.
And so our sacrificial lamb 
skips happily to her slaughter, 
while President and General 
Manager Phil Esposito counts 
his money and rubs his hands. 
Besides, what is her playoff 
beard going to look like?
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
Paul Plastosh is a sophomore 
professional and creative 
writing major.
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Tartan men’s soccer team 
outplayed and outshot Case West­
ern Reserve on Saturday, but 
trailed in the most important sta­
tistic: the score. The Tartans 
dropped a 2—1 decision to the 
Spartans after the game-tying 
goal was waved off by the referee 
on a disputed call.
Trailing 2-1 with 40 minutes 
left in the game, the Tartans re­
ceived a direct kick after a foul, 
and sophomore Vince Russell 
blasted the ball past Case West­
ern junior goalkeeper Dave 
Smith. The linesman, however, 
raised his flag, signalling a pen­
alty, and the referee, Keith 
Renner, signalled that the goal 
was disallowed.
After the game, there was some 
dispute as to the nature of the 
call. Renner declined to comment, 
saying he was not allowed to 
speak to the press. Case Western 
head coach Jerry Harbak said he 
thought the call had been offsides. 
However, Carnegie Mellon coach 
Nick Gaudioso said the linesman 
felt Tartan junior midfielder Min 
Chonginterfered with Smith, and 
called the foul.
“I think there was a player 
offsides, in offside position,” 
Harbak, who was not too enthu­
siastic about the officiating, said 
after the game. “OnMellon’s goal, 
they were offside, but the lines­
man didn’t acknowledge it. Offi­
ciating is a part of the game. I tell 
the guys to just wave it off and 
don’t complain.”
Gaudioso and the Tartans ob­
viously felt the call was a bad one. 
In the locker room afterthegame, 
both the coach and players were 
practically laughing when they 
discussed the call. “If he [Chong] 
is standing in front of the goalie, 
he’s fine. If he’s holding him ... 
that’s something else.”
The disallowed score summed 
up a frustrating game for the 
Tartans, who dominated an infe­
rior Spartan team, but could not 
crack the scoreboard until 32:12
into the first half, when sopho­
more Alex Amezquita deflected 
Russell’s header into the net.
Amezquita’s goal was started 
on a corner kick. After a scramble 
for the ball, Pat Lucignani kicked 
a ball across the goal mouth, 
where Russell headed it right onto 
the foot of Amezquita, who banged 
it home.
Case Western struck back with 
only 9:18 left in the half, when 
junior Fadzal Ahmed scored, and 
shortly after halftime, the Spar­
tans took the lead on freshman 
Nelson Diaz’ goal.
Both Ahmed and Diaz were the 
targets of frequent jeers from the 
Carnegie Mellon crowd, and both 
responded by gesturing to the 
stands after their goals, Ahmed 
clapping and signalling for more 
noise, and Diaz waving to the 
1 section of rowdy fans.
“It’s great coming here, with 
the guy with the bullhorn [in the 
crowd], but it worked against 
them today,” Harbak said. “I’ll 
tell you, theypickedonthe wrong 
guy. Fadzal, he’s from Malaysia. 
He doesn’t understand American 
humor. Nelson they got on next. I 
switched [the players’] sides, and 
I said when I put him in, ‘Nelson, 
it’s your turn to take abuse and 
let them fire you up,’ and sure 
enough, he put one in.”
Ahmed took a high pass from 
Diaz and headed it over Carnegie 
Mellon junior goalie David 
Shapiro to tie the score, then Diaz 
got his chance for revenge when 
sophomore Mark Ruegsegger’s 
shot was deflected off the cross­
bar by Shapiro. The ball caromed 
right to Diaz, who fired itinto the 
net over the prone Shapiro.
After Case Western pulled back 
into a defensive stance with ap­
proximately 30 minutes left in 
the game, the Tartans had a num­
ber of chances to tie the score.
Besides Russell’s shot, a num­
ber of shots were blasted wide of 
the goal, and when Amezquita 
headed a ball over a charging 
Smith with 19:30 left, Case West­
ern freshman defender Brian 
Began made a game-saving play,
Mlko Harris/Tartan Photographer 
VlDilol7m Kmhh s,KfMu8M O(p) clmI hl7 rim Fe88 eI onChnm8Cm7 s88um H7eX8MIu8O(d) Fe,uI ino fDt
kicking the ball clear from the 
goal mouth.
Several other Tartan rushes 
upfield brought roars from the 
crowd, but the team could not 
break through against Smith and 
his defense.
“When it was 1-1, we weren’t 
doing too bad,” Gaudioso said. 
“But when they got a quick goal 
on us, we had to play catch-up, 
andit’stough. Some people didn’t 
play well, and on the turf, every­
one has to play well. They came
“They really had the better of out and played hard, and we also 
us in the second half,” Harbak missed some goals. We had some 
said. “We didn’t have any compo- chances. Players [on Gaudioso’s 
sure out there, and as the game youngteam]also have to get used
which dropped his squad to 1-1, 
and will have to wait until 
Saturday’s trip to the University 
of Chicago for his next try.
“This is a good team. Carnegie 
Mellon will certainly win more 
than they lose. We’re glad to get 
out of here with a win,” Harbak 
said. “We always do well against 
Mellon, and we always feel like 
we can do well. It’s a big rivalry
moved along, their composure to this level of competition in this for us. We were 4—13 last year,
increased — except for the final 
third [of the game], when they 
got frantic. Players who are not 
toopoisedtendtoplaytoo quickly, 
and not get good shots.”
league. Even if [a team] doesn’t 
have any skill — like Case — 
they play like madmen.” Gaudioso 
was denied his 100th win as Tar­
tan head coach with tjie loss,
and we beat them [1-0], and they 
went on to 12 wins [actually 10]. 
We’ve had lean times the past 
four years, so every win is mean­
ingful, though.”
are grizzled men who descend 
from the windswept plains of 
Manitoba and Saskatchewan, 
from cold and bitter places like 
Medicine Hat and Moose Jaw.smMWI Vl,,m7 8lImIp
vl,um4 
F7nCcmI rim 
cmMCm7 ceD
She’s a sheep dressed in 
wolfs clothing. It would be the 
• same as inviting Fred Flinstone 
to live with the Jetsons. Manon 
Rheaume, goalie, becomes the 
; first woman to try out for a 
;; National Hockey League Team,
! the Tampa Bay Lightning.
! Could it be a Cinderella story, a 
;! historic event that could pave 
the way for female athletes in 
; professional sports? Or is it a 
j clever marketing scheme 
devised by the Tampa Bay 
Lightning’s Public Relations 
; committee to gain popularity 
! from the sport’s female fan 
. constituency?
The Tampa Bay management 
; claims that Rheaume will make 
j a valuable player because the 
position requires less strength 
; and more finesse. This is true 
to a certain extent on the high 
school, college, and farm team 
levels. It’s even true in the 
European leagues, which view 
themselves as more “delicate” 
than their Canadian and 
American counterparts. But 
; it’s not true in the NHL.
;! NHL players are tough and 
young, and pain is a daily 
1 occurrence in their lives. These
IifrI lfr UzK
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Wednesday night at Gesling Stadium, 
Carnegie Mellon’s men’s varsity soccer 
team played the first game of the season 
against Washington and Jefferson Uni­
versity and had a pretty easy go of it. The 
Tartans dominated the game in every 
aspect, most especially on defense, lim­
iting W&J to only one shot at the net en 
route to a 2-0 victory.“It’s hard to say 
anything about the 
game. It was a one­
sided affair.”
CMU scored first on 
a goal from junior 
Mike Brazinski with 
an assist from fellow 
junior Min Chong. “It’s 
hard to say anything 
about the game, but 
once the first goal 
went in, we knew that 
was it,” coach Nick 
Gaudioso said. Chong 
came around again to assist sophomore 
Jeff McJunkin for the second and final 
goal of the game. “We should have put 
more goals in, at least 3-0, but we’re 
happy with how the game went,” said 
Gaudioso.
The Tartans’ defense managed a mag­
nificent game, as W&J could only mus­
ter one shot on the goal and but two 
corner kicks. “It was a well-played game,” 
assistant coach Shane Shackford said. 
“We were very strong defensively.” 
CMU’s offense however attacked and 
attacked and attacked W&J, getting off 
24 shots, two of which scored, and three 
saved by the W&J goalie. “I thought we 
really put things together,” said junior 
goalkeeper Dave Shapiro, who made the 
save on the only W&J shot. Shapiro
played most of the game, but was re­
placed by junior Dan Warren for the 
final 15 minutes.
The key for the Tartans lay in the fact 
that the players htfve found themselves 
comfortable in the positions they have 
had to take as injuries have removed key 
players. “It was a hard game to get a 
handle on because of injuries to some of 
our players.” One of those injured play­
ers, senior John Stivoric, said of 
Wednesday’s game, “It was a good open­
ing to the season, but we need to punch 
a few more buttons offensively.” Senior 
Alan Horn noted of the position changes, 
“The changes in positions were good. I 
don’t see why wo won’t make tho play­
offs if we stay healthy.”
And making the playoffs is important 
to this team. “We wore robbed the past 
year or two, being a borderline playoff 
team until tho very end of the season. 
Our tough schedule never gets taken 
into account; wo play a little off toward 
the end of the year, and don’t make it. 
We have high expectations. If wo start 
well against Case [Western Reserve Uni­
versity] and Chicago we should be able 
to do big things this year. Wo’d like to get 
to the NCAA playoffs this year. Wo want 
to make it this year,” said Shapiro.
“We should have put more 
goals in, at least 3-0, but 
we’re happy with how the 
game went.”
—Head Coach Nick Gaudioso.

---------------------------------------------------

AffordableImmigrationServices
Nagel & Goldstein
Attorneys at Law 263-2773
?¦EARN EXTRA INCOME*
Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FI 33161
JMS BUSINESS MACHINES
2qa. sN2vA’kV
Hundreds to choose from 
new, repossessed, or end of lease models
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED
P.O. Box 393 1 Main Street Slovan, PA 15078
947-2679
Ask for Dick or Henry
WANTEDTARTAN Sports Writers
(dead or alive)
Call THE TARTAN Office, x2111. Ask for Josh.
"Northern Telecom/BNR'sclassified
Tim Heilig
flexible work environment
B.A. in Computer Science
challenges you to accept
Member Scientific Staff. Dallas, TX
responsibility for a variety of 
projects that match your interests.'
At Northern Telecom, our vision of the future is to be the world's leading supplier of telecommuni­
cations. Together with our global research and development center, BNR (Bell-Northern 
Research), we're exploring the potential of today's most exciting technologies. To find out more 
about career opportunities, contact your placement office or call 1-1OO-NORTHERN (Press Option 
6) (TDD/1-214-684-3188). An Equal Opportunity Employer.
Th oartnI shudewsdpIf Wednesday, October 7
COMPUTERS
Beat Gateway 2000! 486 SX/25, 4 MB 
RAM, 130 MB hard drive, 2 floppies, 1 
MB video, 14" 1024x768 SVGA non­
interlaced monitor. DOS, Win3.1, 
mouse, software, 2yr warranty. $1599. 
Leapfrog Computers, Inc. 681-6326.
Computers - high quality for less. 
Don't let your school rip you off! We've 
got custom systems for you! Guaranteed 
to beat Gateway 2000! Experts at 
Windows and CAD. Hardware upgrades, 
consulting, software, and computers. 
Two free HD 3.50 disks with your call for 
catalog or quotation to Leapfrog 
Computers, Inc. 681-6326.
Earn $500+ weekly stuffing envelopes 
at home. Send long SASE: Country 
Living Shoppers, Dept. C22, 14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd., Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
VOLUNTEER
SERVICES
JOBS
l\t
northerntelccumH’BG
The research subsidary of Northern Telecom
Alaska Summer Employment - fisheries. 
Earn $5000+/month. Free transporta­
tion! Room & board! Over 8,000 
openings. No experience necessary.
Male or Female. For employment 
program call Student Employment 
Services 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5236.
Childcare. Live in or nearby. Weekdays 
but still time for a day class or two. Study 
during naps. Weekend and evenings off. 
Many benefits including car, meals, 
travel, some tuition, etc. Leave message. 
232-6742.
Earn $1,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now!... Free packet! 
SEYS, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
A humanist chaplian is now available 
for non-theistic personalized weddings 
and other ceremonies, and for discus­
sions. Phone: 781-7205.
Dissertation group, ongoing, to add 
members in October. To facilitate 
productivity and creativity, discuss the 
subjective aspects of this process. Private, 
low-fee. For info, interview, call 421- 
3715, Dr. Singh.
Work group forming in October, to 
facilitate productivity and creativity on 
large projects undertaken after graduate 
school. Modelled after Dissertation 
Group that I have run for a number of 
years. For info, interview, call 421-3715, 
Dr. Singh.
Attention female students and staff. 
Researchers at the University of Pitts- ‘ 
burgh and Magee Women's Hospital are 
conducting a study of how a women's 
hormones influence their responses to 
stress. Blood pressure, heart rate and 
blood samples will be taken at several 
visits over 8 months. Non-smoking 
caucasian women, ages 20-35 years old . 
with regular menstrual cycles and not 
taking oral contraceptives are needed to 
participate in this study. Participants will 
receive important health information and 
monetary compensation. For more 
information, please call Leslie at 624- 
7423.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good 
fares within the USA. **AYH St Eurail 
passes.** Experienced, friendly service. 
Hours 9-5 pm Monday-Friday/10 am- 
noon Saturday. Convenient location: 
4608 Winthrop St. off South Craig St. 
Call Forum Travel 681-4099.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$3.00 / wk
21-50 words.......$5.00 / wk
50-100 words:....$8.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date. 
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your classified ad with 
payment today!
THE TARTAN
/268-2111
COIand
MAN\ on theii
V2vq!NBVvAa A’&qBsNPAq’ &qB VP1Sk’PV Uvq ’kkSsq’k. &qB 2q!!k_k
2N!! N’.PAsk &qB 
N &Bkk HBq2v1Bk(800) 283-8600Ext. 8H
Every student is eligible for some type of financial 
aid regardless of grades or parental income.
'ABASE: Our data base of over 200,000 listings of scholarships <?r $10 billion in private sector financial aid.
-ships are available to students based nlly heritage and academic Interests.
UNIQUE h ir research department has located many scholarshipsincluding awc.„o .or newspaper carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders and non-smokers.
RESULTS GUARANTEED.

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 EwwpEE
Isms run rampant in professional football
In the spirit of blatant sexism, 
or reverse sexism, or whatever 
the heck you want to call it, it’s 
time we took an up-close and per­
sonal look at the free agency tri­
als that recently ended in Minne­
apolis. Sure, there was a verdict, 
in favor of the NFL players, that 
in effect said very little. The idea 
is that the protection of 37 of 44 
players under Plan B free agency 
is too constricting to the players. 
Okay, fine. Having not really kept 
up with the economics of profes­
sional sports, I’m not exactly sure 
what all of this means to the 
players, but if they’re happy with 
the decision ... well, they can be 
happy with the decision.
But I’m not criticizing the deci­
sion, per se — rather, the exact 
methods by which this decision 
was reached. (Yes, this is prob­
ably some rather crude and fool­
ish way of trying to antagonize 
all the women in my life.) The 
jury in this trial consisted of eight 
women. I know nothing of the
let’s assume for a moment that 
they are all professional women 
with law degrees. Or economics 
degrees. Then, and only then, does 
the decision handed down make 
any sense to me. Of course, we 
aren’t allowed to know the de­
tails on the jurors. So, why in the 
back of my mind is there an alarm 
going off telling me that the sce­
nario that I just described isn’t 
how it happened? I just have this 
strange feeling that at least a 
couple of these women had very 
little idea what was going on here. 
I’m not being sexist when I say 
this, not intentionally, anyway, 
and hey, I believe in intention 
when it comes to issues such as 
sexism and racism.
But, the case did go on for five 
years. About as long as it would 
take to get a degree in law, or the 
economics thereof, or at least a 
degree in the economics of profes­
sional sports teams. I suppose 
that I just feel odd knowing that 
a court decision was made about 
football and its possible future by 
women, who really have little or 
no interest in the sport. No vested 
interest, I should add. Except 
maybe to get their useless hus­
bands to do something on Sun-
guzzle a few six-packs of beer, 
belch and pass out in front of the 
television while the Giants are 
getting beaten on by the Redskins. 
There have been mumblings of 
not having a 1993 draft because 
of this verdict.
I won’t call it a plot or a con­
spiracy, but I will say this and 
take hell for it; I wish there had 
been a man, one who knew what 
football means, on that jury of 
eight (I always thought there were 
supposed to be twelve jurors, any­
way). And about that aforemen­
tioned racism and intent to be 
sexist, a coalition of Native Ameri­
cans is petitioning the govern­
ment to remove the trademark 
that the football team in Wash­
ington and the baseball teams in 
Atlanta and Cleveland have on 
their team mascots and names. 
This group, the name of which 
I’ve not heard, insists that the 
use of the terms Redskins, Braves, 
and Indians is “blatant racism.” 
First off, why just these teams? I 
realize that the NHL isn’t that 
huge yet, but don’t these people 
know that the hockey team in 
Chicago is just as racist as the 
teams mentioned above? I sup­
pose that the Chicago
details on these eight women, but days besides sit on the couch, Blackhawks aren’t racist because
they use the name of a specific 
Native American, while the 
’Skins, Braves and Indians es­
pouse their racism in the fact 
that those names are slang, and 
indeed once upon a time deroga­
tory, terms for Native Americans.
Okay, fine. But I don’t feel these 
names really carry the meaning 
(with the exception of the term 
Indians, which continues to be 
used today simply because it’s 
easier to say than Native Ameri­
cans) that they once did. Today, 
Redskins aren’t tribes from which 
the Europeans stole the country
— rather, a really good football 
team that plays out of Washing­
ton, D.C. In the same light then, 
the Braves are a baseball team 
from Atlanta who until recently 
weren’t worthy of professional 
baseball status, not vicious and 
efficient defenders of a country 
that belonged to them. My argu­
ment, obviously, then, is that 
there should be proven intent to 
be racist in naming teams. I don’t 
believe hatred of red skin caused 
these teams to be named the way 
they were, rather they were 
named what they were out of lack 
of creativity. But, what do I know? 
Next thing you know, animal 
rights activists will be decrying
sports teams’ names as being de­
meaning. Then where will we be?
My political agenda out, I think 
it’s time I looked at all these 
teams’ names and decide which 
critter will beat the other. And, 
so as not to appear racist, or anti­
environmentalist, or what have 
you, the best way I know how, I’ll 
use only the city’s names this 
week and hope that I don’t offend 
too many of the denizens of the 
losing cities. First off, we have a 
big NFC West rivalry between 
Atlanta and New Orleans in the 
new Georgia Dome. New Orleans 
has been playing in a dome for 
years, Atlanta only a few weeks. 
Take Atlanta anyway.
Phoenix will fly into Texas Sta­
dium, only to be carried out by 
medivac. Take Dallas easily. 
Pittsburgh will look good against 
a young and awkward San Diego. 
Indianapolis should get a wallop­
ing at Buffalo. Denver at Phila­
delphia should be interesting 
game. Take the city of brotherly 
love. Miami over the horrible- 
looking team from Los Angeles 
(the ones who wear blue and yel­
low, not black and silver). San 
Francisco should have an easy 
time against the flying team from 
New York, but they won’t. Take
New York in an upset.
The racist Washington team 
takes on the growling kitty-kats 
from Detroit. An interesting 
match-up, really. Take the rac­
ists and their defense. Houston 
over Kansas City (also a racist 
team, I might add) in the Astro­
dome. Minnesota over Tampa Bay ; 
in a “who-cares”. New England 
over Seattle for no particular rea- : 
son. Cincinnati over Green Bay, 
because they’re better (and they 
have a better name). The L.A.; , 
team wearing black and silver 
should have a tough time with |
Cleveland, but count on Art_!
Shell’s team to prevail. And now -¦ 
we come to my first Monday night . 
pick of the year, and it’s a dull 
game. Miami and Cleveland 
square off in one of those games 
that only fans of the two teams 
care about. Take Miami—Kosar’s 
days are numbered.
That’s about it for this week. 
Take this week off and watch . 
only those teams whose names 
don’t enumerate some philoso­
phy about some aspect of their 
mascot. And don’t take me seri^ 
ously. It’s just a game, for crying . 
out loud.
Senior Staffwriter Dave Mar- \ 
tin is a junior psychology mcijoriCase Western shuts out women’s soccer
By ERIC STRAUSS
Junior Staffwriter
The Tartan women’s varsity soccer 
team showed the hazards of being a 
newcomer to UAA play on Saturday, 
dropping a poorly-played 2—0 decision to 
the Case Western Reserve University.
However, it took another UAA new­
comer, Case Western freshman Chris­
tine Zgoda, to show the Tartans just 
what it takes to play at the UAA level. 
Zgoda scored twice in the game’s final 15 
minutes, firing the tie-breaking shot past 
Carnegie Mellon junior goalkeeper Trish 
Henrich from five yard out, and then 
outracing two Tartan players to the ball 
and tapping it over Henrich as the two 
players collided, to seal the game with 
six minutes remaining.
While the Tartans tried to play a de­
fensive game, they did not count on 
Zgoda’s aggressive play. “She’s a fresh­
man this year,” Case Western head coach 
Kim Shaw said. “She’s a very intense 
player. She’s not afraid of anything. 
We’ve never had somebody like that on 
our team before — somebody hungry for 
the ball and the goal — she’s not afraid.”
The Tartans, who were outshot 18-6, 
struggled all game with their offense. 
They spent most of the game bunching 
together around the ball, and giving 
away passes to the more aggressive Spar­
tans.
“Since this is our first year in the UAA,
and we’re missing a couple of starters, I 
think overall it was a good effort,” Car­
negie Mellon head coach Julie Shackford 
said. “We have a challenging season 
ahead of us. [The Spartans are] a very 
good team, and they’ve had a program 
for 10 years or so, and we obviously have 
some catching up to do. I was pleased 
with the performance. Our goalkeeper 
[Henrich] kept us in the game,” 
Shackford said.
She also praised sophomore defender 
Anh Nguyen, saying “She helped keep 
us in the game on defense. She is good 
coming out of the back, good with her 
head, and good at reading the game.” 
Nguyen also won Shaw’s praise: “They 
have a very strong sweeper. She was a 
lot of trouble for us. She’s a very talented 
player.”
Case Western could notfind the goal in 
the first half, despite spending most of 
the half in the Tartan’s end of the field, 
shooting a number of shots wide, and 
missing a number of open shots.
The Spartan squad would pass the 
ball a number of times inside the 20, but 
eventually they would turn the ball over. 
However, the Case Western defense 
stopped the few Tartan offensive threats 
in the half, and pounded the ball back 
into the Carnegie Mellon end of the field.
“I kind of felt that in the beginning it 
was really hectic. This was our first 
game, and [the players] were uptight, 
and the [astroturf] was a problem be­
cause we don’t play on turf,” Shaw said. 
“I knew they were going to be a tough 
team. They put a lot of pressure on us 
early, but they couldn’t take advantage 
of it. If they had scored early, it would 
have been a different game,” Shaw said. 
“In the second half, people started to 
play more of a possession game, making 
passes connect and switching fields.”
Meanwhile, Henrich and Case West­
ern sophomore goalie Cliona Jennings 
bothmade a pair of fine saves on tough 
shots to keep the score knotted at 0, and 
the Tartan’s continued to live danger­
ously, with the defense continuing to 
bend but not break.
The defense finally broke late in the 
second half. With just over 14 minutes 
left in the game, Case Western junior 
Nancy Moon took a long pass and cen­
tered the ball to Zgoda, who shot it 
home. Then, with just over six minutes 
left, junior Hallie Placko kicked the ball 
high into the air, and Zgoda beat a de­
fender and Henrich to the ball.
Case Western almost gave a goal away 
shortly after that. A Case Western de­
fender kicked the ball wildly back to­
wards Jennings, who was forced to de­
flect the ball off the goalpost and out of 
bounds. But, like all the other Tartan 
threats in the game, it came to nought, 
and Case Western picked up the victory. 
The Tartans, who drop to 1—2 on the 
season, will travel to Allegheny College 
on Wednesday.Anh Nguyen breaks away from the pack,
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
Hk!Ak#k AP qB ’qPx PvAV _1. 
AV A’ 2!NVVt
If you’re looking for excitement and adventure, 
you’ll find it when you enroll in Army ROTC. It’s 
not your ordinary college elective.
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOD CAN TAKE.
University of Pittsburgh
Beverly J. Ertman
sNKqB 1’APkS VPNPkV NBs. 
NVVAVPN’P aBq&kVVqB q& sA!APNB. V2Ak’2k
!WV>L 2NPvkSBN! q& !kNB’A’_ 
aAPPVH1B_v ak’’V.!#N’AN ETpL>->>>E 
Lpd-LdR'

---------------------------------------------------

IQ
BeB AtlanticCant
304 5SS 3243 530b
LINDI WILLI ARS
1-800-352 ONLY
(MON THROUGH FRI. 9AM —5PM)
CARRY
THE ONLY
CALLING CARD THAT
WORKS AT
ANY PHONE, ANYWHERE,
WITHOUT
COMPLICATED CODES.
IT'S THE SIMPLEST
CARD TO USE
FOR LOCAL OR LONG
DISTANCE CALLS.
YOU JUST DIAL “O",
THE NUMBER YOU WANT
AND AFTER THE "BONG”,
YOUR OWN
PHONE NUMBER
PLUS A 4-DIGIT PIN
YOU CAN PICK YOURSELF.
THE BELL ATLAvNTIC®
IQCARD
IT'S SIMPLY THE ONLY
CARD YOU NEED.

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 EwwpE'
Football Box Score
Score by Quarters 
Carnegie Mellon 
Washington
2 3 4
7 18 60 0 0
Final
31
7
Scoring
WU — Ql, Warfield 7 yard pass (Elegant kick) 
CMU — Q2, Grusky 12 yard run (Harding kick) 
CMU — Q3, Harding 25 yard field goal 
CMU — Q3, Grusky 26 yard pass (Harding kick) 
CMU — Q3, Van Sprang 22 yard pass (Dee run) 
CMU — Q4, Siket 32 yard pass (kick blocked)
Team Statistics
Carnegie MellonWashington
Score317
First Downs1817
Yards Rushing19284
Yards Passing155180
Passes — Att.-Comp.-Int. 24-11-237-18-3
Total Offense347264
Punts — Average5-324-39
Fumbles — Lost0-03-1
Penaties — Yards5-516-51
Time of Possession33:0726:53
Indivdual Statistics 
Rushing
CMU, Grusky 18-111-1, Dee 12-52-0, Horton 5-15-0, Washington, 
Hannun 15-61-0, Pierson 5-16-0
Passing
CMU, Dee 10-23-123-2-2, Neiss 1—1—32—1—0, Washington, Kean 14- 
28-138-1-1, Green 4-8-42-0-1
Receiving
CMU, Siket 3-55, Van Sprang 3-41, Grusky 1-26, Peters 2-17, Horton
1-10, Washington, Mosely 4—24, Warfield 3-64, Gregory 3-32, Pierson
2-11, Hannum 2-4
Pe7reMI Vrnh8m rim UeIit 1t Hme7I
Grusky Rushes for 111 Yards, receives for 26, and gets two TD's in victory
by Josh Linder
Tartan Sports Editor
St. Louis, September 12 — The 
Carnegie Mellon Tartans ex­
tended their football winning 
streak to 11 games with a 31-7 
routing of the Washington Uni­
versity (Mo.) Bears. The Tartans 
improved their season record to 
2-0-0 and their University Ath­
letic Association conference 
record to 1-0-0 as the Washing­
ton Bears fell to 1-1-0 and 0-1— 
0, respectively. It was not, how­
ever, as easy of a game as the 
home opener (as many thought it 
would be).
The first half, however, was 
worth forgetting for the Tartans, 
for they gave up seven points, but 
had it not been for the tough 
defense, that would have easily 
been either 14 or 28. The offense 
looked like that of a less experi­
enced team, giving up two inter­
ceptions. The first interception, 
by Washington free safety Mike 
Lauber, set up the first score of 
the game, which was 
Washington’s first lead over the 
Tartans since the series began in 
1987. The interception was also 
a monumental one for Lauber, 
for he now holds the Washington 
all-time interception record. The 
offensive line also allowed the
Bear defense to get through and 
sack sophomore quarterback 
Chris Dee. The one offensive 
highlight in the first half was 
sophomore halfback Jason 
Grusky, who earned the respect 
of players, coaches, and specta­
tors alike with his 45 yards and 
one touchdown in the first 30 
minutes. The Tartan defense 
settled down after the first score, 
and although it did allow the 
Bears to get deep in Tartan terri­
tory, it did not allow a touchdown 
or field goal. Junior defensive 
back Jerry Fuller saved a score 
late in the second quarter when 
he ran down Bears’ wide receiver 
D.L. Warfield after a 53-yard 
screen pass. At the end ofthe first 
half, the Bears dominated the 
Tartans with 141 yards on of­
fense (compared to CMU’s 105), 
and went into the locker room 
with the confidence to win the 
game.
The second half was all CMU, 
and as head coach Rich Lackner 
put it, “The difference between 
Dr. Heckell and Mr. Hyde.” The 
“fired-up” Mr. Hyde scored 24 
unanswered points, and allowed 
Washington U. to score none. 
Defensively, the Tartans looked 
the same, keeping the Bears away 
from the goal line, and only al­
lowing rushes for small gains.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
GOLF
Commissioner 
Dave Ekem, x5354 
The 1992 E.J. Birdy IM Golf 
Tournament will be held on Sun­
day. Four person teams or indi­
viduals may play. Tee off after 7 
am. There is a $7 greens fee for 18 
holes. Clubs can be rented at the 
clubhouse. Sign in at the club­
house before teeing off. The rain 
date is September 27. Scores must 
be turned in to the IM Office 
within 48 hours of the match.
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissoiners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — Kerry Skolkin,
x5302
Minors —• Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only — Molly 
McDermott, 682-3529 
Games are being played in the 
stadium and on the IM Field. 
Games are scheduled on the IM 
Fields at 6:30 pm and 7:30 pm. 
Standings are posted on the IM 
Bulletin Board.
IM News
TENNIS
Commissioner 
Jon Ferris, x5502 
There are 42 teams this year. 
Final entries were due last Thurs­
day. Matches begin today. Please 
check the IM Bulletin Board for 
playing dates and league sched­
ules.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners 
Majors — Ed Pyo, x5515 
Minors — Jim Saxon, x5482 
Final entries were due last 
Thursday. Schedules are out and 
can be picked up in the IM Office. 
There must be three females and 
three males on the court to start 
the game.
UPCOMING SPORTS
CROSS COUNTRY
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
The 1992 IM Cross Country 
Meet will be held on Wednesday, 
October 14 at 4:30 pm. Four per­
son teams or individuals may run. 
There will be a special division
Are you interested in 
telling Administration 
how to do its job?
If you are - and we're sure you are - 
then consider the following University 
Student Advisory Committees:
University Committee on Discipline (6-12 students needed) University Student Affairs Council (2-4 students)
Trustee Committees:• Educational Affairs & Enrollment (1-2 students)• Budget (1-2 students)
• Development (1-2 students)• Alumni (1-2 students)
Sexual Harassment Committee (2 students)Design Review Committee (2 students)Ryan Award Committee (2 students)Vice President's Student Advisory Committee (6-12 students)
If any of these interest you, additional information on these committees is available from the Office of Student Affairs. If you'd like to be considered, Student Senate will be handling nominations for these committees. Get in touch with Senate by email at ss2p@andrew.cmu.edu, or by telephone at x2115.
Funded by your Student Activities Fee.
The turning point of tho gnmo 
came when senior captain Andy 
Holms recovered a fumble deep 
in Tartan territory, and the of­
fense returned the ball to allow 
senior kicker Fred Harding to 
make a 26-yard field goal. The 
offensive line gave Dee more time 
in the second half to pass, allow­
ing him to pass for 96 yards and 
two touchdowns. His accuracy 
was also vastly improved, for he 
did not give up any interceptions 
in the second half. Junior wide 
receivers Andy Van Sprang and 
Jarrod Siket also proved their 
incredible worth to the team by 
each making a touchdown recep­
tion, although Siket’s would-be 
second TD was called back due to 
a penalty. Van Sprang’s TD came 
from the elusive “flea-flicker” 
play, shortly after an intercep­
tion by junior linebacker Chad 
Wilson. Dee showed off his 
“golden arm” with his passing as 
well as contribuing 52 yards of 
rushing, and Grusky showed off 
his spectacular athletic talent by 
finishingthegamewithlll yards 
rushing, 26 yards receiving, and 
two touchdowns (his second 
straight game with two TD’s). 
Junior lineman Ben Burton had 
another excellent defensive show­
ing, getting involved in many key 
plays. Captain Griffin Pero, al-
though obviously in pain after 
injuring his ankle, continued to 
play for tho benefit of the team.
With tho loss of UAA dofensivo 
player of the week Aaron Powpll 
prior to CMU’s initial score in the 
first half and cornerback Jeff 
Cooper shortly after, Washing­
ton could not continue their first 
half dominance. The Tartans, 
however, showed that they were 
ateam. When CMU players were 
asked who they thought was the 
“most valuable player,” most 
touted others. It seemed as 
though each player held in his 
mind a different key player in the 
game, but many felt that sopho­
mores Jason Grusky and Chris 
Dee were the MVP’s in the game. 
The MVP cannot be given to any 
one player, rather, it should be 
given to the whole team for the 
complete performance given. 
Havingfifty separate players does 
not win games; a team does. The 
defense kept the game within 
reach for the Tartans; the second 
half offense kept the game out of 
reach for the Washington Bears. 
The Tartans do need to improve 
however, for in the first two 
games, they have only played “30 
minutes of football." “If wo can 
como to games prepared to play 
in tho first half,” says Deo, “we 
will bo scary.” Scary, indeed.
for females only. Everyone is 
welcome to run.
WATER POLO
Commissioner 
Mike Kappus, x5371 
Entries are due on Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
CHESS
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Entries are due on Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
BUSINESS
The officers for 1992-93 have 
been elected and are as follows: 
President—Buddy Feitt, x5371; 
Vice President — Dave Ekem, 
x5354; Secretary — Joanne 
Kievan, x5900; Women’s Presi­
dent — Molly McDermot, 682- 
3529. The next meeting will be 
held Thursday at 12:30 pm in the 
IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
Unibed Wtay
AwrenriMM mkk pp.huIw ­U
(<& 4JûHû“y®aiip staAimlls Om §=yæair [pir©girsniiis}
Are you . . .
- in the upper 1/3 of your class, with at least a 3.00 QPA?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
-,il8e7n
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress In 
1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the 
United States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President 
Truman's high regard for public service, his understanding of government, 
and his desire to enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship 
competition) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) 
who have outstanding potential for leadership in public service. Winners 
receive up to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for 
the senior year of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate 
school [(spread over two or three years of graduate study]).
Jlreliminarv applications due;: October 9 1992. Candidate 
interviewS-. October 19-23, 1992. Completed nomination 
materials due (at the Truman Foundation headquarters):
December 2, 1992.
Additional information. Come to a special informational meeting on 
Thursday, September 17, 1992 at 4:30 pm, In Baker Hall 355.
Information and preliminary application packets are also available In the 
H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. Contacts (members of the 
Cru Truman Scholarship Faculty Selection Committee):
9 S7t KlImDi kt SmgnMmx NIIl,nerm SmeM lh vzVV Heum7 ve88 Ahn8
9 s7t ve7l8C sn88m7x NIIl,nerm SmeMx vmnMX V,ill8 lh al8n,4 & scrt veoFf7c ve88 EE>R
— S7t !4MM vl8CmMx NIIl,nerm SmeM lh 2&N 2&N E>>
— S7t 28efCne “n7uDer7n,ux NIIl,nerm vmeCx AMCfIr7ne8 seMecmomMr a7lc7eo _VAN p>L
— S7t He7Fe7e !eXe7fIx NIIl,nerm a7lglIr hl7 N,eCmon, a7l:m,rI Vonri ve88 p>w
t S7t AMCn7e ’en7x V7t !m,rf7m7 z NIIl,t vmeCx SmDr lh kMcnMt z afFt al8t Heum7 ve88 Epw

---------------------------------------------------

IT'S THAT TIME AGAIN ...
Tours START THINKING ABOUT A SEMESTER IN 
France FRANCE...
APPLY NOW FOR THE 
SPRING '93 SEMESTER AT THE CMU
CENTRE de TOURS
WHY SHOULD YOU GO????
IT'S AFFORDABLE ($9250 FOR TUITION, ROOM AND BOARD). 
FINANCIAL AID GOES WITH YOU.
PRIOR FRENCH IS NOT REQUIRED FOR ADMISSION TO 
THE PROGRAM.
IN ADDITION TO THE MANY COURSES IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH 
TAUGHT BY FRENCH PROFESSORS, CMU PROFESSOR HAROLD 
PAXTON IS TEACHING 27-131: INTRO TO MATERIALS SCIENCE^ Vol
k!k2PA#k N’S N’ vzVV V2Ak’2k z Pk2v’q!q_. k!k2PA#k)t
LIVE WITH A FRENCH FAMILY OR IN THE VILLA. 
IT'S ONLY 55 MINUTES FROM PARIS.
tr,
HOW MANY MORE REASONS DO YOU NEED??
PICK UP YOUR COURSE LIST AND AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF 
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION, 219 SMITH HALL (BEHIND HAMBURG) OR 
CALL EMILY BIANCHINI AT X4969. WE ALSO HAVE INFORMATION ON 
OTHER STUDY ABROAD OPTIONS AROUND THE WORLD.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 16
DON'T WAIT!! ! !

---------------------------------------------------

-
w ww T-Wm T giMUHQ ? DESICI on ??LIVUNIj
Volume 87, Issue 3 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania14 September 1992
N Ce4 nM rim 8nhm lh
Scotland Yard serves up stylish eats
9 99
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
For the benefit of the two slugs 
on campus who have just never 
made it to Scotland Yard, I can 
only say that you’re missing some 
of the best java and coolest aura 
this side of Southside. For the 
other 99.8 percent of you who 
have been by the Yard, I’ll try to 
provide some Yard history and 
menu insight to make your next 
visit even more worthwhile. 
Scotland Yard first opened on 
November 15, 1985. But for a 
place that’s only been open seven 
years, it holds more history 
within its walls than almost any­
where else on campus. Walking 
in, you get the impression that
you could pore over the CMU 
nostalgia that covers the walls 
for hours and still not finish all 
that’s there. Every decoration in
the Yard is do- _____________
nated by a CMU 
organization, 
and according to 
Mark Donnelly, 
a CMU English 
alum and con­
fessed Yardie,
“They’re not de­
corations at all— 
they’re all from 
something. You 
just have to know what it means.” 
Many participants in Carnival 
set aside a piece for the Yard 
every year, ensuring that their 
organization will be remembered
within its hallowed walls. Last 
year the Yard held a huge cross­
word puzzle concerning its own 
history — the answers to which
"The menu has always been put 
together by students, both custom­
ers and employees. Changes re­
flect what people want.”
J Lisa Yalen, Yard manager
were already on the walls.
The Yard has changed quite a 
bit since its opening back in ’85. 
According to Lisa Yalen, a 1992 
SUPA graduate and the manager
oftheYard since it opened, “When 
we first started we were only open 
three nights a week. Then we did 
some experimenting with being
____________ open for lunch,
and expanding to 
seven days a 
week. The first 
few years, people 
saw us as a non­
alcoholic bar, and 
people don’t re­
ally look at us as 
that anymore. I 
think we’re seen 
more as a café.” 
Over the years, Scotland Yard 
has started several traditions, 
and hosted quite a few special 
events. The Sexy Body Parts con­
test, which hasn’t happened for aDramats rehearse 
Chekhov’s Seagull
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
After spending an evening with the cast and crew of The Seagull, a four-act play 
by Anton Chekhov now in rehearsal for performance in Kresge Theater, one soon 
discovers there is no such thing as a “typical day” in an actor’s life. Possibly the only 
givens are 14-hour days, stress, and uncertainty. However, for all of these 
hardships, the benefits are extensive. They have become more than a cast and 
crew. They are a team, a family.
“It’s been rough,” says senior drama major Allen R. Middleton who plays 
Constantine, a lead role in the production. “For a while I felt like we might not even 
scratch the surface of the play’s meaning. Up until yesterday I wanted to slit my 
wrists.... Now I’m really excited, but we’ll see how it goes.”
Middleton has learned to be wary of immediate success. “Sometimes I don’t want 
to go on stage the night before [a show], but amazingly enough, things always come 
together,” he says. Every rehearsal promises change. Entire scenes can and will 
be turned over, and last minute line changes aren’t uncommon — directors are 
known to change their minds. “I know the scene we just did will be different 
tomorrow,” says Middleton.
This lifestyle definitely contrasts the typical week-to-week routine of most other 
disciplines. Adaptation to this variability is certainly trying for the actors. “The 
show goes up in a week and a half and I still don’t know what to expect,” says 
Middleton.
The actors have been working together for less than three weeks. In this amount 
of time they have learned their lines, blocked all of the scenes, and worked through 
the text of the play, trying to bring Chekhov’s words to life. Soon they will leave 
the confines of their rehearsal spot in Margaret Morrison 203 and venture to 
Kresge where the play will be performed. More adjustments and changes will be 
made once that move is made and the technical crew starts to incorporate such 
necessities as light and sound.
Please see DRAMA, page 1-3
few years but was pretty popular 
when it did, gave everyone his or 
her moment in the sun, an ea­
gerly awaited opportunity to 
nominate his or her own nose, 
and win vegetable prizes. Deco­
rating the Yard like a booth in 
the year’s Carnival theme was 
also an event. A Phi 0 used to 
come in once a week and order 
the Yaardvark — one of every­
thing off the menu. Writing eerily 
appropriate comments on the 
menus to fit the folks pictured on 
the front and back has also be­
come a Thing To Do.
As well as being the late night 
home of the Bottomless Cup-O- 
Coffee, the Yard is also the quint­
essential coffeehouse in other 
ways, too. According to David 
iii
Gross, a CMU alum (English, ’92) 
and a first year graduate student; 
at Pitt, “when there’s some act; 
someone wants to do, and they; 
want an audience, they come 
here.” The English Department 
often sponsors poetry and fiction 
reading series that are held in 
the Yard. Student bands like Bob 
Hop, Detergent, and Road all got; 
theirstarthere. Open Mike Night: 
(which fondly became called the; 
Travis Bish Weekly Comedy; 
Show) was a feature last year,; 
and Dancers Symposium will also j 
bo trying out short pieces once a; 
month at the Yard.
“There’s been everything from 
magic acts to stand-up philoso­
phy,” says Gross.
Ploaso 9oe THE YARD, pngo L2
¦He's heret the Phantom of the Opera...
Ty Taylor, Taml Tappan, and Michael Crawford spoke with drama students last week. The three of them were In town 
with the tour of The Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber. See the related article on page L4.
UB2P eDD7le,imI 
pd-ilf7 F7leC,eIrnMc
By BOBBIE DOFFLEMYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Welcome to WRCT, CMU’s student- 
run radio station. No matter what 
your taste in music, you are bound to 
find it somewhere in the wide variety 
of programming offered at the station. 
Housing what is said to be Pittsburgh’s 
largest music library, the walls of 
WRCT shelve more than 50,000 
records, tapes, and CDs, with several 
hundred new arrivals coming in each 
month.
The type of music played on WRCT 
depends solely on the DJ. Currently, 
one of the most popular music catego­
ries is the techno-dance style of groups 
like 808 State and The Shamen. Mark 
Yeck, a senior in ECE, is the chief 
engineer at WRCT. In addition to his 
responsibilities in that position, which 
include maintaining all station equip­
ment and answering to the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC), 
this mellow head-banger hosts his own 
“death metal” show, as well as some 
techno-dance.
Todd Padezanin, a senior in civil 
engineering, carries the title of gen­
eral manager. His position includes a 
range of delegative duties, as well as 
knowing all the ins and outs of the
station. You can hear his “indie-rock” 
(comprised of independent label art­
ists) on Wednesdays from 10 pm to 
midnight, creatively entitled “Gubba, 
King of the Bartenders.”
In addition to these types of music, 
there is also a very popular jazz sec­
tion in 'the station, as well as some 
blues, rap, experimental, and interna­
tional/tribal shows. Senior chemical 
engineering major Russ Lehrer plays 
a popular Broadway show-tunes seg­
ment, and a comedy show adds to the 
variety of entertainment. The form of 
a show is completely under the control 
of the DJ on duty. On-air discussions 
with listeners are always a possibility 
when someone wants to speak his or 
her mind. Live bands, usually from 
the local area, stop by the station ev­
ery Tuesday from 9-10 pm to play 
their own music.
As far as the college community is 
concerned, WRCT works to get as much 
coverage of CMU events as it possibly 
can. The station airs live at every 
Tartan football game, and has a sports 
talk show once a week. During Carni­
val, a live broadcast offers up-to-the- 
minute coverage of the buggy races 
from start to finish. After the races are 
over, the station sets up camp to play 
Please see WRCT, page L3
Football pumps for season
This is better choreographed than 
any Broadway show I have seen.... 
Every player and coach appears to 
know exactly where he is supposed 
to be at every moment.
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“A day in the life of the football team” is a story that 
requires someone with at least a modicum amount of knowl­
edge of the game. Unfortunately, I was the one chosen. I 
know football like Bo knows quantum physics ... that is to 
say, not at all.
Well, maybe a little. Hav­
ing first experienced col­
lege football at Ohio State,
I was prepared for some­
thing that doesn’t exist at 
CMU. I was expecting a 
paramilitary organization 
that was ready to search 
and destroy. Guys living, 
eating, taking the same 
classes together, and dat- 
ing women with names like Muff'y and Bambi.
I asked Head Coach Rich Lackner about my preconceived 
notions and he managed to shoot every single one of them 
down immediately. The players are not required to eat 
together. They are not assigned housing based on football 
team membership, and they aren’t required to get together 
to watch films of the next opponent’s games. In fact, the only 
privilege the players seem to get is the right to run around 
in a ton of equipment while the mercury on the thermometer 
is pushing 95. To remain eligible to play, the players have to 
keep up with their school work. Lackner told me, “School 
comes first.” They could probably get the same privileges at 
a maximum security penitentiary, the difference being that 
here, it is up to them. If they want to play, fine. If not, that 
is fine also. I was flabbergasted! Why would anyone put 
themselves through the torture of carrying a full load and 
committing to a season of football? I didn’t figure it out until 
I went to a practice.
Practice starts at 4:45 pm on the dot, although most of the 
players are there, suited up, and talking with the coaches by 
4:30. When practice officially starts, the whole team stretches 
out for approximately 10 minutes. A couple of the players are 
helped with their stretching by some female assistants. (I 
would like to know how they decide which players get the 
woman assistants. They must argue about it.) After stretch-;
ing, they break off into 
smaller groups and run 
drills for 21 five-minuto 
intervals. You must see 
this to believe it. It is bet­
ter choreographed than 
any Broadway show I have 
seen. After every five- 
minute interval a horn 
sounds and they move on 
to the- next drill. Every 
player and coach appears 
to know exactly where they are supposed to be at every 
moment.
This is great! Male bonding at its finest. This would make 
the staunchest Sunday afternoon couch potato weep with 
envy — one hour and 45 minutes of guys grunting, sweating; 
swearing, yelling, and hitting each other without any fear of 
police intervention.
The defensive team practices blocking, breaking through a 
line, and my personal favorite — bobbling catches. I’m no^ 
kidding. I suppose they are practicing for the unexpected; but 
it’s still funny to watch a bunch of guys intentionally not catch 
a ball thrown right to them.
The defense also gets to run into and tackle these huge 
objects that I assume are blocking and tackling dummies. It 
looks to be about as much fun as slamming your head .nto 
some very heavy steel doors, but they don’t seem to mind that 
much.
Please see FOOTBALL, page L2

---------------------------------------------------

!pPim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp
Football team pumps up 
for another winning year
FOOTBALL, from page LI
The offense people practice—what did 
you expect — running, throwing, and 
some blocking. The quarterbacks, about 
ten of them, practice throwing while sit­
ting, kneeling, and standing. The receiv­
ers and running backs do a drill, the likes 
of which I’ve never seen before. The play­
ers stand face forward, knees bent until 
a coach yells the word “blue.” When they 
hear the coach yell, they strike poses 
that look like the guy on the Heismann
Award trophy. I’m not exactly sure why 
they do this, but it looks neat.
All witticisms aside, these players 
have committed themselves to this for 
two hours a day, plus school, for an 
entire season. The only day they have 
off once the season is in full swing is 
Sunday. I have trouble completing what 
I have to do, with no other commit­
ments, and that’s if, and only if, I’ve 
managed my time well.
Now, it may seem that for a seemingly
lighthearted romp through the world of 
shoulder pads and kickofFs, I’ve become 
pretty serious. That’s because I have a 
genuine respect for the guys who can do 
this without going too crazy. And if you 
think I’m doing some major kissing up 
just because I don’t v/ant to get the stew 
beaten out of me, you’re wrong—that’s 
only part of it. Most of it is that the 
football team is dedicated, successful, 
and what’s more, they have fun. Or at 
least they look like it.
The football team proves that “practice makes perfect,” or at least really good.
Josh Freeman/ Tartan Photo Editor
Yard offers tales, yummy treats
THE YARD, from page H
Scotland Yard has had its share of celebrity support, as well. Yalen says Mr. 
Rogers came in for a bread, fruit, and cheese plate a few years ago, although 
he took it to go. Other famous patrons include the band Bad Brains and Prank 
Zappa, despite the fact that he only had a glass of water.
The Yard is one place that, like students, never stands still, in terms of 
entertainment or menu. Chicken nuggets, the aforementioned bread, fruit, 
and cheese plate, and mozzarella sticks have been replaced by quiche, hot dogs, 
and peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Back by popular demand are blender 
drinks which were made defunct a few years ago when their ingredients 
became too lengthy and complex to enumerate. Today, the blender drinks are 
much simpler, and theyTl probably stay that way, at least until someone 
throws something into a blender and discovers that it tastes better than what’s 
made now.
Yalen thinks that one of the coolest things about the Yard is that “the menu 
has always been put together by the students, both customers and employees. 
Changes reflect what people want.” Desserts change every so often, too; just 
check the board to see what’s in season.
But what do Yardies eat, anyway? I, your friendly neighborhood taste-tester, 
was more than happy to find out. So I asked the staff and everyone else who was 
just milling around what their personal favorites were.
Sheila Skaff, an H&SS senior, swears that “veggie pitas are the best.”
“Get the triple chocolate death cake,” says Heller Keck, a CFA sophomore. 
For Tracy Kroop, a CFA senior, it’s “the Apple Manor tea—iced, definitely.” 
“You mean the most nutritious? Taco salad, but it’s too expensive,” says 
Gross. “Get the pizza bread instead.”
AlexMackay, a sophomore ChemE major, says, “The garlic bread is.a definite 
recommendation, well done and with lots of weed [the mixture of spices put on 
top ofpretty much everything at the Yard].”Mackay, a Scotland Yard chef, also 
suggest that you “have your hot tomato on French bread instead of pita.” 
Personally, I’m enjoying my mocha (first cup) & coffee (every cup thereafter) 
right now — great for deadlines or any other time you need to stay awake.
If you have a favorite dish not on the menu that you’d like to see put there, 
come talk! The people who eat at the Yard have a tremendous amount of say 
on what goes on there. Maybe that’s part of what makes the Yard so appealing. 
It’s a place by students and for students, and you can feel it when you walk in. 
Just look around, and you know that the eclectic entertainment, decor, andfood 
could only be created by crazy college kids. As Mackay says, “It’s as much a 
meeting place as an eating place.”
So if you have completely missed the Yard, then I strongly urge you to get up, 
leave the room, and go right now (provided it’s between 11 am and 2 am on the 
weekdays or between 6 pm and 2 am on the weekend). Says Gross, “You can’t 
get through four years at CMU without coming here.” Bring some friends, go 
late, and try the mocha—just because I asked you to — and I’ll bet you’ll be 
a faithful Yardie in no time.
ABB Environmental Co.AT&T
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Aluminum Company of America American Management Systems, Inc.Andersen Consulting 
Apple Computer, Inc. 
Battelle Pacific National Labs Bell Atlantic Corporation Bellcore
Central Intelligence Agency Chrysler Corporation Convex
Digital Equipement Corporation Dow U.S.A. 
Duquesne Light Co.EDSFluor Daniel Co. 
Ford Motor Company I Systems Formation, Inc. 
General Electric GenRad, Incorporated 
Gordian, Inc. HRB Systems IBM United States ICI Americas Inc. 
Intel Corporation 
Kurt Salmon Associates, Inc. Laurence Livermore National Labs Microsoft Corporation 
Miles, Incorporated. 
Morgan Stanley Motorola, Inc. 
NEC Systems Laboratory, Inc. Northern Telecom & BNR Oracle Corporation 
Peterson Consulting Limited Partnership Price Waterhouse Information Primavera Systems, Inc. Radian Corporation Salomon Brothers Schlumberger 
Sony Corporation Sun Microsystems, Incorporated Symbol Technology TASC (The Analytical Sciences Corp.) The Proctor & Gamble Company The Timken Company The Travelers 
U.S. Department of Energy U.S. Navy Unilever Research U.S. 
United Technoloqies Corp. 
W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc.Xerox Corporation 
XonTech, Incorporated

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT Chief Engineer Mark Yeck, a senior in ECE, and General Manager Todd Padezanin, a civil engineering 
senior, keep CMU’s own WRCT rocking and rolling right along.
Work brings cast, crew 
together In Seagull
“It’s my job to take things off the 
director’s mind. I am the one who 
sets up the rehearsal space, lis­
tens for missed lines, plans the 
schedule, and keeps the actors 
safe,” she says. Reed is in charge 
of an 11-person stage crew, and 
is responsible for the placement 
of 40 pieces of furniture and over
DRAMA, from page LI
However, actors constantly 
vary their performances as well, 
trying to come across that certain 
set of decisions that will illumi­
nate the scene, that will make 
the character real. For the ob­
server, it is remarkable to watch 
the process of learning that is 
constantly in prog­
ress. The actors try 
different expres­
sions, experiment 
!with their lines, and 
offer their own inter-
cmrrl8Ml3Pimr goes.... Amazingly enough, things
character. “It’s all 
trial and error,” says 
Middleton. “You 
make mistakes and 
then you learn.”
This freedom 
leaves room for the 
insecurity that a 
scene will never be fully complete 
or settled. “It can be so frustrat­
ing,” says Middleton. “I’ll want to 
go one way with a scene, and the 
director will want to go another.
You never know how it’s going to 
end up.”
Self discipline and responsibil­
ity are two other necessary skills 
acquired through this lifestyle.
Stage manager KristieAnne 
Reed, a sophomore directing ma­
jor, has learned all too well the 
process of what she calls “coordi­
nation.” The stage manager of a 
production has many responsi­
bilities, mainly to'the director.
“Up until yesterday I wanted to 
slit my wrists.... Now I'm really 
excited, but we'll see how it
always come together. ”
J Allan R. Middleton, 
senior drama major
100 props.
The rehearsal schedule is gru­
elling and long. “It ends up being 
seven days a week, 24 hours a 
day,” jokes assistant stage man­
ager Alex Steneck, a sophomore 
drama major. The fact is, it’s prac­
tically true. Most of the drama 
students have classes together 
all day long from 9 am until 6 pm. 
For those students in The 
Seagull, rehearsals run from 3-6 
pm, and again from 7:30 pm till 
past 11 pm.
Bill Pomerantz, the director, 
also teaches some of the after­
noon theater classes, so the cast
basically spends their day to­
gether.
Pomerantz, a third-year 
graduate student, is directing 
The Seagull for his master of 
fine arts thesis, his final project. 
In watching the one-to-one con­
tact he makes with members of 
the cast as they exchange ideas 
and make pro­
gress, it’s easy to 
see why people 
in the theater 
both love and 
hate their work 
—it’s extremely 
difficult but ex­
tremely reward­
ing.
Although this 
is a hectic, try­
ing time in the 
lives of the cast anc*crew The Seagull, the end 
product, which will be on dis­
play in Kresge from September 
23 through 26, promises to be 
worth the effort.
Passion
Even if you don'l play an 
instruments, you can help fill Heinz 
Hall! We have limited openings for 
our exciting subscription campaign. 
If you arc outgoing and articulate, 
we will teach you a skill that will 
last a lifetime. Have fun and cam 
up to $20/hr plus $$$ bonuses and 
complimentary tickets! PT day or 
eve. Parking.
Call Pat DeLuna 
392-3311
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDYLOWEST PRICES-NO RISK-TOP HRANDS-REESE, M&M, HERSHEY,AND MORE....CALL FOR DETAILS & BROCHURE
5Ifyyou’re Ilkin I’ 
673-4406
SHORT & SUITE
Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp !'
WRCT offers Pgh’s 
largest music library
live from a rental truck, giving away tons of 
promotional goodies. Throughout the year, WRCT 
airs contests in which it gives away t-shirts, 
posters, CDs, and tapes, and many concert tick­
ets. In the past, WRCT has interviewed many 
independent label artists. Some of these artists 
are not well known now, like Tar — who is 
rumored to be signing with a major label soon. 
But these are the artists you want to keep an eye 
out for. Phone interviews were conducted with 
Napalm Death and soon, WRCT is hoping to get 
a live interview with De La Soul who will be 
using WRCT’s very own turntables when they 
play here this week.
Besides having fun with all of the musical big- 
shots, WRCT has a number of guidelines set 
forth by the FCC to which they must adhere. 
Everyone involved at the station must take full 
responsibility for their actions and follow the 
regulations governed by the FCC. Besides the 
strict rules about “objectionable” material, each 
DJ is required to air 60 seconds of Public Service 
Announcements each hour, two promotional an­
nouncements, and station identification. The 
station receives press releases from all over, and 
when the Emergency Broadcast System reports 
any type of warning for the area, it is the respon­
sibility of the DJ to inform the listeners. Major 
news broadcasts (about ten minutes long) are 
aired twice a day.
Sam Minter, public affairs director, feels that 
public affairs shows, which run about six to 
seven hours a week, will have a significant pres­
ence at the station this semester. Five to six 
public affairs programs are run every week, 
including two to three general talk shows rang­
ing from local Pittsburgh news to world affairs. 
On Saturdays, WRCT plays back lectures and 
other events that have occurred on campus. 
Weekly discussions are held on a monthly theme, 
such as September’s topic on AIDS and sexually 
transmitted diseases.Other interviews and 
broadcasts include Senator Tom Harkin and 
Lynn Yeakel, a senatorial candidate. Minter 
says they are planning more for this semester.
People don’t just walk into the station and 
start DJing — this is serious business. Each 
prospective DJ must attend a training meeting, 
participate in “adopt-a-DJ” in which a veteran 
shows the novice the ropes, complete an air- 
check and log test, know the legal requirements
of the FCC, and apply for a Restrictive Radiotole-'; 
phone Operator Permit.
Where is the station heading? On the air from;; 
about 9 am to 3 am, the station soon hopes to taka;; 
over the airwaves 24 hours a day, seven days a,' 
week, and by spring semester, the station looks! 
forward to operating at increased power, blazing at! 
1500 watts to double its radius of coverage.
If you’ve ever wondered what it would be like to'; 
work at a radio station, take a look at WRCT 88.3 • 
FM where, as put by Padezanin, “There’s not an,-, 
other station like us in Pittsburgh.” CMU certainly 
is lucky to host one of the most unique, 
radio stations in the country, with some of 
coolest DJs playing some of the hottest
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO STMT SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
VvqBP PkBs !kNVkV 
k!k_N’P!. &1B’AVvkS VP1SAq 
1 qB 2 HkSBqqs 
NaNBPsk’P V1APkVt
qM84 e hm3 IrmDI h7lo &NVvAq’NH!k UN!’1P VPBkkP 
VvqaV N’S BkVPN1BN’PVt &7lo TdR Dm7 Ce4 OlM e 
olMri84 FeInI)t AM,8fCmI &Bkk 8l,e8 DilMm OeMI3m7nMc 
oe,inMm rllY)x ,eF8m P# Op olgnm ,ieMMm8I)x #2Bx e88 8nMmMIx 
,loD8mrm84 m/fnDDmC unr,imM eMC De7unMct senC eMC 
,lM,nm7cm Im7gn,mI egen8eF8mt(* JhadffáiÁ^JÍnji
OdEp) ddE-dddd5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 800-767-848?
Can’t afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can’t afford not to. 
Not when you realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 30years or more. You'll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that taltes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax-deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each 
month beginning at age 30 and you can 
accumulate over $192,539* by the time 
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and 
you'll have to budget $227each month 
to reach the same goal.
Start planning your future. Call”c4
kMIf7nMc rim hfrf7m 
hl7 rilIm 3il IieDm nrt?G
Even ifyou're not counting the years to 
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CRJiF 
to help you build the future you deserve— 
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio «1 invest­
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans 75years.
Over a million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CRKF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow when you 
have time and TIAA-CRKF working on 
your side.
our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
\.....Tarr uming a.interest rate of 7.5% credited to TIAA Retirement Annuiliej. Thu rate u used solely to show the power and effect of compounding. Ijower or higher rates would produce very different results. CREF urtfieatcj are distributed hy TIAA-CREI’' Individual and Institutional Services.
WRCT, from pogo LI
One UJarCd
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor
(S' Handkmt Wool & Alpaca 
Sweaters from Ecuador & Peru 
(1,00s to Choose from ! )
Strip District Soturday Only 
2 1 St & Penn 
Phone 14121 Ç21-7208
® Jewelry- Handmade by 
Latin American Artisans
N Vl,ne884 BmIDlMInF8m HfInMmIIPM! !• 5EP3° ocr,iZo6 OCT 21,23,2*
Outside Vendor -i ao Forbes & Bigelow *
slMt-&M ’llM rl L:>>

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp
Tues., September 226:00 pm
DH 2210
Procter & Gamble Information Session 
(refreshments available)
Thur., September 24Ski bo BallroomTechnical Opportunities Conference
-Procter&Gcurible
Phantom appears in Kresge with drama alums
Crawford, Tappan, Taylor address dramats, answer questions
By LAURA McCLURE
'\Tartan Junior Staffwriter
¦; Sitting as he is now in faded jeans in 
•,'one of Kresge Theater’s folding chairs, 
/ Michael Crawford is not the type of 
celebrity whose fame flashes out at you
I y immediately. His face and voice are 
instantly associated with his history- 
making title role in Phantom of the 
-Opera, but you’d never guess it from his 
down-to-earth personality. He is here, 
.along with 1991 drama alumni Tami 
¡¡Tappan and Ty Taylor, to give advice to 
;!CMU’s drama students, to answer their 
;!questions about life in the professional 
^theater, and to promote the event which 
¡»brings them all to Pittsburgh, The Music 
'•of Andrew Lloyd Webber tour.
With a 37-piece orchestra and 12 sing­
es, the focus of this concert is strictly 
;on the music. There will be no sets on 
;Stage, and costume is limited to formal 
¡Idresses and tuxedos. Taylor says, 
“What’s difficult about this particular 
show is that you can’t go to the theater 
.and put on a costume to become the 
¡character.” In a setting where there are 
¡po opportunities to change your ap­
pearance physically, the character you 
portray must be all the more convinc­
ing.
Crawford is also a firm believer in 
¡doing whatever it takes to become the 
Character. “You learn about creating 
¡another being,” he says. “You build the
character wherever you find that man’s 
soul.” When asked how he arrived at his 
portrayal of the Phantom, he said, “I 
wanted him to be the most romantic and 
beautiful man. Though others would see 
him as ugly and distasteful, in the music 
he would become a Meditteranean 
Valentino.”
Crawford’s portrayal has also devel­
oped as a result of unforeseen occur­
rences over the years. For example, the 
change in style of the song “Music of the 
Night” from seven years ago to the hus­
kier, more passionate version of today 
came about completely by accident. One 
night, during the river scene where the 
remote-controlled gondola was supposed 
to drift down the river and then come 
back to the Phantom and Christine, the 
stage hand mistakenly allowed it to drift 
down the river and stay there. Crawford, 
who had to haul the gondola back to 
Christine himself, explains that the 
huskiness in the song was really just 
shortness of breath. However, he pre­
fers the new version with its more re­
strained, uniquely passionate cast to 
the old clearer way, so he kept it, and 
thus created for many audience mem­
bers one of their most treasured mo­
ments in the theater.
It is amusing anecdotes like this one 
that give Crawford his special charisma, 
one which you can feel 30 yards away. 
His recollection of meeting Gene Kelly 
in San Francisco and dancing “Singing
!ef7e s,28f7m/lartan Photographer 
Ty Taylor, Tami Tappan, and Michael Crawford spoke with students in Kresge Theater last Wednesday.
in the Rain” on an airport coffee table is 
hilarious, and as human as his advice. 
Crawford says, “The fear at the begin­
ning of this career is the same now as it 
was [when I started], but you have a 
love. You have an energy for what you 
do, and you have to keep that.”
On getting along with cast members, 
he also has some advice: “It’s not just you
in a show — it’s a team. Focus is one of 
the most important words ... and on 
stage, you all create the focus.”
Rounding off his advice to CMU’s 
drama students is Crawford’s message 
to make each performance count, no 
matter what.
“Every time you walk onto a stage it’s 
equally important,” he says, “because
you’re walking into a temple of dreams. 
You have the opportunity to change 
something... motivate someone.”
The inspiration of speaking with 
Crawford, Tappan, and Taylor, actors 
who have made it in their chosen field, 
was no doubt a motivation for the 
someones in the audience last Wednes­
day.
Wed neds ay,ednOcaeyt
All Carnegie. Mellon Students Interested in
Business and Technical
career opportunities with Proctor & Gamble
N!! N2NSksA2 sNKqBV Uk!2qskY
Explore the possibilities in a number 
of challenging areas including:
• Manufacturing
® Management Systems
• Product Development
Ever Get A Pii Hied?

---------------------------------------------------

Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Righe.
A ROUTINE SCREENING OF TUB FEATURE FOR FAMILY VALUES.UM...OKAY, HJE'RE
tnJuioSJnfAsRICK ANPI HAVE BE£N HAP­
PILY MARRIED FOR toHAT, tNJewJ 
EdaPbg HONEY? t
\viÀiv)vwKèÀHÌMiàrn ||
YOU HAD TROTOUT1HB ,
th B mnoN MvSiSSLTHB CAREER, /{tr OWt M,S5!
Salili ALGO,SH3
WELL ¡vp WAS7RYIN6 
I HAP 70 ¿E JP & T HER 
SORB, I'D CAREER GOING,,
BEEN Ph _V
VORCBP,,.
mp13
LIOI49b 
NnwiWl'u¦ 
NJ ecwJo 
thkJtnJu.I w, Fot-Kj. “[CMCU 
is]am l]atryunyrMWe don't need no stinkin' headlines
| HOT A FAMILY? |
5 VRBPO! A MICH KCSHT BEAUTIFUL MEAN WERE HOT UTTIE&RL1 FOR A WOMAN'S LOOK I RJ6HTTO CHOOSE.
Rourm family values check, \FOLKS. WONT TAKE A MINUTE. 1\TDOBAP. m'RBOirOFHEFtTy
WHAT? JUST UMTIS THIS, 
eecAuse vCe“C.oe 
m'RBFRO- PURIFICATION CHOTC5? WEEK? f
APIOS.
HEY, YO,U/HOS&, NAME IS UP THERE? HE'S 
THE FRANCHISE!
NO PROBLEM. STOP SUCK/N6 F1RBAMAY! UP MIKE.
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in The Pittsburgh Press. Trust me. I’m a doctor.
fiorii; COMPLAlH THAT 1HL 1EATI, 1 THINK ITS A EAU.P0 A “ '~-ÌL\.Y l'Vi SURE TUERlS
EN'ERTAINMENT INDUSTRY TMM TASTE BOTTOMS OUT f "¿Sii ft BRILLIANT
CATERS TO THE LOWEST SOMEWHERE. IF TOES COULD / CAREER. AHEAO
CCMMOM DENOMINATOR OF TINO A WM TO OF Xoy
-^rn P')BUC T,OT. ®f?-\ AW EVEN LOWER, / • ' ./&i A H1P A E)ET UAVkt Kbt\t# PvkÌ> sN“k Vqsk -E ' iytdaf c pT6x^7 A ^ & VAL MONE-t. _ ff
THERE 3pAt be 
A WM TO CRAM 
MORE VIOLENCE 
IHTO 90 MIHVJTCS /
yc\J,ehh-cfk \hpCeJg eJtACHECK OUT THEIR VALUES.| GREAT. WHERE? |
RIGHT HERE I'M IN SHOW IN MALIBU. BUSTNEEG. I 
\ WANT10 WORK 
^—*>. CLOSE TO / \ HOME!
I HOllVWUODiUU . NIX!' |
NO...NO, IT'S NOT HE'S •
LIKE THAT! WE'RE GOTA 
FROM THE CHARI70V GUN'CO 
HESTON UJING1 OC T YOUR,
---------x GUN, HON BYf
YOU Bòi KJE TIED THE KNOT JUST THIS YEAR.
ANP NOCUWE'RE 
LOOKING FORWARD TO RAISING 
A FAMILY'
YOU FOLKS MARRIED?
A'#k _qP N vkU k’Ps &qB >> B 1VP q& UqBSV PvNP _kP N BkN2PAq’t
eafr t1 pa
DYSFUNCTIONAL,
MOM.
A's sqP _q\’_ Pq HkSt
SOMEONE WHO UNDERSTANDS FAMILY VALUES! HECK, I LIVE mH MY FAMILY! THAT'S HOW 
MUCHI bnnHvc VAUJa TMM!
MY FAMILY RAISED ME RIGHT EidOUIS OFF THE TABLE, 
LOTS OF 'THANK-YOU NOTES TO THE GRANDPARENTS, ANP AB­
SOLUTELY NO DRUGS, EXCEPT TO BE T N /iX/7£.
POLITE'xfJ2wUH-HUH. I'M VERY POLITE!
WHATr WHAT ARB YOU LOOKIN'AT?
WHAT'S V^ITH THE OMBRELLA AMD BACKPACK ?
PREPARED 
FOR MAT:
I'vt GOT A DART GUN, F\VE 
COM\C BOOKS. 3MAE GUM. 
A WRENCH, A BOOK ON
mf.pF d yd, ah sanrdnd F
AN ERASER.V and a rock.
GEE, ¿IOToNE I TUE 
5H0ULD CARRY UMBRELLA, 
A KIT LIKE THIS. DOUBLES
^_________V ^ ^' -x I PNRKCUUTE
NEXT! I 
\~NEXT/\ONE NEVER 
KNOWS.MOTTO IS 
"BE PREPARED.
FINALLY! A CHARACTER WHO BMB0P/E5 FAMILY VALVES! ITRUE, LITTLE NEIL GOT CAUGHT UP IN THAT AWFUL S&L MESS, ANP GEORGE JR. 
HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF INSIPER TRAP/NG...
... ANP JEB MAY HAVE 
ACCEPTED A FEW CONTRIBU­TIONS FROM CROOKS ANP 
SURE, PORO GOT DIVORCED, BUT, HEY—MARVIN TURNED OUT GRBAT!
WOW...YOU REALLY ARB PEAP IN THE WATER.
YOU SAID IT ! JUST 
LOOK AT THE KIDS 
BAR AND I RAISED!
fh.sssmm HOLD IT! THIS IS MY 
ISSUE!
b.rhg Wheitbi meiSEVENS-THREE MILLIONocht nheitbi eSebgDE 
gnchsmeiNNNN A»»»NI\b ume87,8 Ie8PvABP. -TNQJP'1V _kPV kNVAkB' Uvk’ Pvk ’1sHkBV Nak 'V\_t
(pB /stHtfreu*-
WE REGRET TO INFORM OUR- REAPERSHIP THAT......NOTA SINGLE CHARACTER HAS PASSED OUR FAMILY 
VALUES EVALUATION EXAM.
ACCORDINGLY, TH/S FEATURE W/Ll\ BE TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED... j.50 THAT WE MAY INSTILL.
UJAITE A MINUT! fl/irre B35fpt.0
’bsNCALVIN?
yopp MawyMaaGb
m A FIERCE 
ADVOCATE OF TUE 
SEPARATION OF 
CHURCH AND 
STATE. V
NEVERTHELESS, I FEEL 
THE NEED FOR SPIRITUAL 
GUIDANCE AND COMFORT 
AS I FACE THE DATS 
STRUGGLES.
SO I WAS W0NDER\NG \F I
could str\p Down, smear 
MYSELF W\TH PASTE, AND 
SET FIRE TO TH\5 LITTLE 
EFFIGI OF VOU IN A ^ 
NON -DENOMINATIONAL / 
SORT OF WM _____y
BOI, WHAT 
A TOUCHY 
SUBJECT/
.IJvHJqhi*-.fioin.M.ltJ£ffìtlcì -------------------------------
PsPV KT fLOXRo.. t Hfx3 fi H£ Ac<.omPLrsH€3 tntY Q\/Jn?LAn*
ZRehrvRf CuhN a ¿3X3t*k>t pLAuei ino fly *vt*y
WHO Hk* XNVrsoeD THf CHUTH UITH QCJTKIir ft COUrAOtuXfM-
TH( 3014 pvnpoaf of Coarto LUX**- hJHAT e”4 (6 Do TeL£ FWrnrtAity. ALL HUrtAH OtHfiVXOfi . . . ___
T*r%:f*r m*!*'
No or«if is Jrf\ff\UtiC To MiTNfloevce[ 
:l PH* UHkT TZHf yoo DO on SAV ¿a** -
wilbeo frdSptm / m19far “UqnK J
JT'J € Lot Ho I 
pf.ii.r CoMPwrff#< PART ALietJ - PA#r tTAI
KQHH/LKGO/IKGO.' HO no NO HO HQ NO HO'PJT ME 
WWN/
I WISH I Wtó DEAD.' I V4KVE. YOU ALL.'I ViNTC EVSefTHlSS/
ViUEKEVER I HEAR. ABOUT 
PEOPLE TR1IUS TO 
REDISCOVER THE "CHILD 
WTHIU; I WAMT TO SCREAM
GwftSS I (Jon'-t ke. 
neciirvg tkl5 SCv^-f«'^ 
fall ApAcKe Spirit 6v,’Je
^T\^en, hoh?- "'r^\ 5 m Jce. I f
^g€K\ nUoiRo ** ruer7hnrf

---------------------------------------------------

OH NO, 
NOT AGAIN/
WIN&S 
VrN. q’
WIN65 
&N!! q&&
Fumbling for his recline button, Ted 
unwittingly instigates a disaster.
Where "minute" steaks come from
OLBRICH
THis M/rch ; Wf FiwD
KILLfPv &UNW TRAPPED 
IN A PARK. E"LE" VATOR /
CORRECTION: A 
FALUN«* PARK 
ELEVATOR.
0 LIFT 
HEAVY
STUFF SO I C/W WXK STODLY
Calf delinquents
My ioy IWOWs fio BOUNDS.
Bng uiT ecag is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. I also have a bridge for sale in Brooklyn.
ByyFRAA
NKMFII^In the Tartan, Where Available/^ßy 2).\»Ou KofeAYASHI
Volu ome o 87ommu, I7s3l\'VE ÇOT TO THINK. 
OF
rbp: Tssg 1n TV"68u: '''Inventions 
of Tomorroui" 3 video camera 9bc9 
lets you see what road :pBn: are thinking.Parking Ep1Cc91o:
Will not be towed,
VûH 6000, 
IT'S 3T0Ppt D.A LUMI­NESCENT IDEAwi lbeofwr 
dfiSbpiet m199 
a0 pi:0T
.i'm H4rt/w<;-] 
to wilib eL IKS A
C AC, ED RAR>ß fr.
ARftH...
tJOU/ I'M IRAPPEP IN A DARK , P-tvwroRWITH HOLE'S.
IcomeWhat are y°u\ 
^Sup^sedto^e?)
PASSING
ZONE
UHH...
v/MUCrFLÖ0R?
I ^enue
1dron. 
Aiwm is
NeXT WEEK1. RUN 
BNzhrrPx B1’/TOKEH uett-
sgmnuc BuECKm
_________
Pvk &NB VASkBy GARY LARSON

---------------------------------------------------

Pvk &NB VASkBy GARY LARSON4m”Nsa“m VAsq’V
ARCANE SLAYERav #>!CHAC1. SCARP

---------------------------------------------------

Klm 5f&hón"5 TormenT in The afier'ife
^0 3 ^
Kcn9 Y9cL9 PintT eM4ol7mt
ARUxUU(NW-'tV'f'"“'7
- w .
sw»p,roCONNIf
!erm7Judgeroenr
process/'^
Ce^Ter4he &re^e5i r \ooo^E af f
) SkSkLLLU ^y'_____-—
; .1per C/lPE . y 
!mr T _q-'
’qU
f K1EK9u Dfmn/r- I TOP!'
Thatj CL
7mim7 £
Wo s womec/ 
about T^oye'hn7m eMC F7nnhnVUMm 
legend5.
Who-r, TM'5 7 
rbs:s) are 
Just listi of
Voivf? sms.
/ ^
6re«T'f5T 
J~ UOCOVF
[\o.cd\'l. Ac^o, parp, one
Of h>S JvJger'ieor AdmiiDwtnCS.\ 
We geT TC/> r'"/ch wcr/c / 
arounc/ Here f«*" J«/sr /\ 
One man.
"V - 7"yia"i-)7 raPt
l See. /^<”€ ail 
THeSe paperi- 
I abouT The.—\People you — -Judge7Sorry, kids! Wc lost. (Jutland this week. 
IL should return next week. Oops.
woe ir
HY 6®P-' y»1 yw'fciT 
<0 \naMURG fi f-ufL fiittpl 
9YoA:M n1o -ft, q<ef ¿e
/)Ke yity HpmY.(/Ph 40S 7a-oN
é'ajì i/òei¿0 sriAÌ>£i^ys'i'Kraì
Y2s::4a
s3C ard - N: t -K1:
soforodS 5AJT -'
ioR V\_ y t-'C— ¦i^-reiu6Btxei^C^/r 66A,v66
f I'TJtt'O oo>^) 
rpo V«A 1iliw< 
(J? CAIO?A/T a/i- so wV/fr's f -77/c y~ug; ^/cre?i >
qb\re B<tic£i rri fi Lofie,
:gp f1'­ n'YoaH Y2(9pyv - 
Y.YCsY.Ys oo 0O Dvv
H1899 p:Y9ny) ooBB i3)Yow(UrA: opt pyaBona(«l( dMs yUdvSn i91qo afuEL -fiaf*-1=<*- A<J 
^ VoiK&OASew^,
-So 7naV ¿<177? yiwe^ -rueu ¿¿¡^ 
s(?u*-r-niMc, isuwj c4u -me f>* rts
9oG pv '•¦-%. Owaw9Sv
(A)°, -7R>rrs UknI
YooSpyisWYrF 7?/<r X& A cxuLi'brntfJEK'.MnrosFTTO,7t\x /
WY... (*1/6^/ 7^/s Sm19a 
/-s A -v^V/jS /I
Oqvanq6kT/atELr<7Hr:G/GE>R>Ak ngoiun
(T 6<fl y UHEtt. gxx you lo
J7xJ-DW6 WafR‘ TH k hG:pt nxD e”> ”
]) Llf=T^ "puLuTHe- urtetL mìithE, 
0 .. I'BRAwi^ "DtMn Qse |Wv-^ 
. d^;'\ Acieo )' rirj'iV
W^T/--', ’I cùMv^CH Aioò^B^B^-^H
:!8 4/:Uh .”
­A(9s1erSSStpA: (11
srrnnr&Z exi-£*f£tict
mSm /dm 
A0i0pT orH91JS9I
k) don
AAAir
£XCU5t H£. \ 
I I A^(
YpcYL ciWc,(fl(; 
AcERRcduUfux(N
MAVS6£TH£ 
fte.PUBL\CAiOS A NBk “ELvPt 7
Mft'iSE- 1 
SO VILE. I DOH'T 
DESe&JE EQOAL 
'-i Ri&hTS. .—'
WHAT ACE. aOlT' 
TAttnOG A6ouT?
fAAVS&t M>i 
ALTtfeiOKrwt 
UPtSTSLt IS -----. DEPPA-JtP.
“aoo MOSTU'T 6t Pwipeo Pi GAI M ST 
aooesELF, ra-cgc. TO 86 SOMETHlrJfe s—\you'G.E kIOT. rrr-
' you cakì't fall ' FOB-THE AkIT\S6ì-oAL. PlATB-iatS OF 8 Joyu.Ss PR'6S.J
'Imb nI XmI7 >t 
ftvJc £>ccitemojt; ”1>> 2OhVq &llfVG>nr2Yt
^uwiooyoo
THUfeTHey Kgk.) M 
Hp /b/ieS T0SfrPphN
al “lP uhhp MI No^l t*IJA1 
To CHANCE H/T DIDi oo) ÌAtirv
MOO HA>JE^ 
M OTHW b TO 
&& ASWft^ep OF.
qqC'P !£P>p.^aofie joo&e 
you for. bouE. '~r\PtSlR6S. /Ti
[ S?ELL£i B 
\ "l4T£RR^?r 
7 ^K-oJi
!/TfiJk. Yoj
Foft. yous. 
\TTKe. .
1 Cooa Varnj l4tEE.0Pr. 
|H6IL£ AW ISO 6RJI.OR.S lf\ Tnii 
_es<b6dt yaNPPn
‘s' IS K011
SoHet)KÌ€ TPie 1 .'BiE.i). r~
X AtA SEXUALLY 
(\EooStO S3 . Qoa^L6. JJHAfs 01S6»STU6,

---------------------------------------------------

: ITORSION___________________________________
The Dromisine. the Dredictable. the orecarious. the oreoosterous. the oraiseworthv. and MORE! in...
THE (Un) Official Fall 1992 Movie Guide
By MARNIBOREK
Tartan Diversions Editor
- For those of us who have time in our 
iiectic schedules, knowing what movies 
¦are going to be worth the price this 
•season is definitely important. After all, 
jt’s not the greatest feeling in the world 
to walk out of a theater knowing the only 
good thing about the evening was the 
greasy, fattening popcorn.
— Here’s a list of movies for the fall/ 
winter season in no particular order. 
3fou be the judge to what’s worth the 
’weight in your wallet.
School Ties: This flick starring a new 
ftatch (potentially a brat pack) of dash­
ing virile teenage men tells the tale of 
wealthy boys in a prep school who “come 
of age” when an outsider makes his way 
into their circle. A sort of ripdff from 
Dead Poets Society minus the teacher.
Crossing the Bridge: Another grand 
“coming of age” film. The plot sounds 
promising as does the cast. Josh Charles, 
Jason Gedrick, and Stephen Baldwin 
portray friends who are tempted by the 
huge amount of money offered to them 
to carry drugs across the United States/ 
Canadian border. When the boys dis­
cover the drugs are more “illegal” than 
they thought, the situation becomes 
sticky. This film should be hitting movie 
theaters any day now.
The project has an impressive cast — 
Kyra Sedgwick, Bridget Fonda, 
Campbell Scott, and Matt Dillon. The 
music is also very impressive with the 
latest “grunge” sounds from Pearl Jam, 
Chris Cornell, Alice in Chains, and more. 
This is probably going to be one of those 
predictable movies, but of course every­
one who considers themselves part of 
the mainstream crowd must see it.
Consenting Adults: Hey, a thriller that 
may work! Kevin Kline and Mary Eliza­
beth Mastrantonio start as the perfect 
TV couple who have the most wonderful 
life ... until the new neighbors move in. 
The new neighbors live the life in the 
fast lane that Kline and Mastrantonio 
have always dreamed of. Once tempted, 
the suspense begins. This movie arrives 
in mid-October.
Innocent Blood:Yes, another vampire 
movie, but this time with a twist. Marie 
is a vampire living in our very own 
Pittsburgh. Once she bites, she kills so 
her victims have no chance of becoming 
vampires themselves. When she gets 
messed up in the mob scene, a police 
detective and she strike up an interest; 
ing friendship. Of course, this doesn’t 
sound so interesting, so director John 
Landis throws in a couple more vam­
pires just for the hell of it. Check this one 
out at your own risk. It may not be worth 
the trip to the Mac machine.
1992 Warner Brothers
The cast of Singles, a romantic comedy, spend their days searching 
for—and running from—true love. From left to right: Campbell Scott, 
Kyra Sedgwick, Matt Dillon, Shelia Kelly, Bridget Fonda, and Jim True 
at the local diner.
Kevin Costner plays a professional bodyguard hired to 
protect a glamorous actress/singer (Whitney Houston) In 
the romantic suspense-thriller The Bodyguard.
Stephen Baldwin, Josh Charles, and Jason Gedrick find themselves choosing a path 
that will affect them and everything in their lives thereafter in Crossing the Bridge.
Blade Runner: This is the new and 
improved uncut version of the original 
film released back in the early ’80s. It 
helped the careers of such stars as 
Harrison Ford, Sean Young, and Daryl 
Hannah. The cult classic tells the story 
of an ex-detective who must capture 
cyborgs who have started a vicious kill­
ing spree. Since the cyborgs look and act 
as humans, it’s a* bit difficult to hunt 
them down. The film opens this week.
© 1982 The Ladd Company 
ve77nIlM Ford plays a highly skilled 
detective tracking Cl3M four renegade 
replicants 3il have escaped to Earth in 
Blade Runner.
Singles: By the time you see this, you 
won’t know what’s better—the movie or 
its soundtrack. Cameron Crowe, the man 
who brought us Fast Times at Ridgemont 
High and Say Anything, gives us the 
StoQi of 20-year-olds hanging out in a 
Seattle apartment complex (hey ... are 
you beginning to imagine Melrose Place 
too?) learning how to make friends, how 
to fall in love, and how to survive the big, 
bad,-mean world.
Sarafina!: Whoopi Goldberg moves 
way from the comedy schtick and takes 
on a serious role as a school teacher in 
South Africa who is not approved of by 
the government. She manages to inspire 
a student named Sarafina, who shows 
her pride in her African heritage and 
rebels against the system. The story 
worked great on Broadway — let’s see 
how it does on the big screen.
Whoopi Goldberg stars as a passionate 
school teacher In South Africa whose 
lessons aren't found In approved text 
books In Saraflnal
A River Runs Through It: This a beau­
tiful-sounding story set in Montana back 
in the early- to mid-1900s. The movie 
unravels the story of the relationship 
between two brothers and their reli­
gious father. You’ll need to bring along a 
lot of Kleenex for this one.
Aladdin: We were all young once so 
why not get nostalgic for the animated 
version of one of our favorite childhood 
stories of all time? This movie is full of 
great characters — a genie, a monkey, a 
beautiful princess, and of course, a magic 
carpet. The movie contains songs writ-
Eddie Murphy plays a con man turned 
Congressman (Is there a difference?) after 
the state representative dies In The 
Distinguished Gentleman.
<£> xya^ me wan uisney company
Magic carpets, a beautiful princess, an evil villain, a mischievous monkey, and a 
wisecracking genie star In Aladdin, a lively animated adventure-fantasy. The music 
Is from Academy Award-winning composer Alan Menken.
ten by composer Alan Menken, who 
brought us those delightful songs that 
you just can’t stop singing from The 
Little Mermaid andBeauty and the Beast. 
Get into your kid gear when this treat is 
released sometime in November.
The Bodyguard: This movie will either 
be a masterpiece or a complete failure. 
Whitney Houston makes her film debut 
as a singer/actress who is being stalked. 
Kevin Costner plays an ex-Secret Ser­
vice worker who is hired to protect her. 
Naturally, there is that unavoidable 
sexual attraction, and Whitney, of course, 
tells Kevin that all at once she’ll be his 
baby tonight. After seeing Madonna flop 
and flail like a dying fish on the screen, 
one must wonder what Whitney is going 
to do to herself.
Pure Country: Country music is defi­
nitely getting popular these day s (either 
that or Billy Ray Cyrus is just a sex 
symbol and nothing more). Country 
singer George Strait stars in this movie 
as a singer who must make some weighty 
decisions choosing between his home 
life and the glittery music industry. This 
is one of those “get your head out of your 
butt and get rid of your ego” musician
movies that we all know and loathe. 
Stay away from this one.
The Distinguished Gentleman: Eddie 
Murphy stars in this flick as a con man
who launches a sneaky campaign to be.- 
come a Congressman after one of the 
Florida state representatives dies. After 
Murphy wins the election, we see him on 
the scene in Washington handling all* 
the big issues and what not. The big 
question that remains is... will he make 
any illegal moves?
The Muppet Christmas Carol: As you 
can see, the best is saved for last. Miss 
Piggy, Kermit, Gonzo, and the entire 
muppet crew do their version of the 
famous Charles Dickens story with some 
music, humor, and a little help from 
muppet fan Michael Caine. If you’ve 
seen The Muppet Movie and The Muppets 
Take Manhattan, you know you can’t go 
wrong with this one. Jim Henson’s 
memory is alive and strong. You’ll see 
this latest muppet creation on the silver 
screen during the Christmas season.
All your favorite muppets, along with Michael Caine, star In The Muppet Christmas 
Carol, a holiday treat that you Just can’t miss.
When the new neighbors (Kevin Spacey and Rebecca Miller, right) move In, trouble 
begins for Kevin Kline and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (left) In Consenting Adults.
© 1992 War Wagon Productions
.-i i iili - ì ili,h*i

---------------------------------------------------

The Runestone olgmI heIrm7 rieM rim FmcnMMnMc lh e Fllut
!E> Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp
..... Vv " ...— HU. .....-1.1 —— I I I I .1 .1 ... ¦ ¦ I. —¦—
You ever buy a book and read in it for 
an hour and then realize it hasn’t started 
yet?
Cause first you had to read the dedica­
tion page, where the guy wrote “To 
Priscilla, for her unflagging devotion, 
and Lars, for never losing faith in me. 
And Marianne, the best damn editor 
Since Maxwell Perkins and blah blah 
blah,” and when you get down to the part 
where he’s thanking his personal 
aerobics trainer, you can finally turn the 
page to
“Acknowledgements.” Why do I always 
rpad this page? What kind of sick doofus 
am I? “The author is grateful to the 
excellent staffofthe Indianapolis Public 
Library System, as well as the estate of 
the late Radicchio Escuela, especially 
Mr. Escuela’s widow Arugula.”
Who the hell cares? When I buy a 
chair, do I have to listen to a tribute to 
the man who cut down the tree? Why 
should it be any different with a book?
Now, finally, the 365 pages of 
“Acknowledgements" are over, and we 
come to the ... “Foreword."
“I first met the author of this book in
Vty 8t8 Ptyb 
ht h1y C34Syp49
by Joe Bob Briggs
1948. I’ll never forget the day his train 
pulled into the station at Lake Como. He 
was wearing a toupee even then, but he 
still had all his teeth....”
Excuse me while my eyes glaze over. 
Forty-seven pages later we’ve got the 
“Introduction.”
“Scholars of literary history will some­
day regard “Two Dudes Take a Holiday* 
as the finest work of the ex-post-facto- 
modemism to emerge from the South 
Fresno Writers Project. As Roland 
Barthes once said of the Symbolist po­
ets, ‘Life stinks and art stinks, but life 
stinks more.’ It’s taken us 20 years to 
really know what that means.”
After 134 pages of this, do you think 
the book might finally start now? Al­
most. All that’s left is ... the “Preface.” ¦ 
“Random House is proud to publish 
this sixth edition of Two Dudes Take a 
Holiday,’ an enduring American classic 
that has pulled down truckloads of money 
for this company without us ever doing 
a damn thing to promote it. That’s the 
kind of literary miracle Bennett Cerf 
taught us to appreciate in the Forties.” 
Whoops! Almost forgot! There’s also 
the “Preface to the Second Edition.” 
“Who could have predicted this work 
would be such an instant classic? Cer­
tainly not the editors, who have cor­
rected 294 errors since the original pub­
lication. All references to the lineage of 
the Borzoi Brothers of Lantana, Florida, 
were entirely inadvertent and without 
factual basis and have been excised from 
this and all future editions. The editors 
apologize to Mrs. Borzoi.” You know what 
I’m talking about, don’t you?
By the time you do get to “page one” of 
the book, you’re already sick of it. You 
know why? Because the guy didn’t write 
it for us. He wrote it for himself and
everybody else. But it’s like a party for 
everybody except you. You know what I 
mean? Send out Christmas cards on 
somebody else’s time, not mine.
Speaking of ancient manuscripts that 
are hard to follow, The Runestone is a 
flick about a giant Norse god who hangs 
around Soho killingpretentious Yuppies 
at art gallery openings and wears a bear 
suit because Joan Severance broke up 
with him and moved to Maine.
To tell you the truth, I’m not sure 
exactly what The Runestone is about, 
except it has something to do with 
Alexander Godunov sitting around all 
day in a shop full of Swiss clocks waiting 
for one of ’em to stop so he can drop 
everything and go to New York City for 
a fight to the death with a hairy Viking 
beast named Feneir. Meanwhile, Feneir 
is rampagingthrough Central Park, kill­
ing William “Icky” Hickey, blowing 
people up in elevators, and generally 
making life miserable for Eyetalian cop 
Peter Rigert, who pops Pezzes and says 
the f-word a lot.
The point is that there’s this ancient 
legend of a creature that can only be
killed with a magic battle-ax by Godunov, 
and... actually I forgot what the point is: I 
What I do know is:
Twenty-nine dead bodies. No breasts'.
. Dead dog. Ax through the chest cavity;! 
Arm rolls. Sledgehammer Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Hickey;; 
oldest actor in film history, for saying| 
“The runestone can sense what you want; 
most — don’t listen to it”; Severance, 
who’s been taking acting lessons sincg! 
costarring with Hulk Hogan in No Holds 
Barred, for saying “The only thing that’s: 
lasted longer than religion is pornogra­
phy”; Lawrence Tierney, as the police 
chief, for saying “Well, I say it’s a big guy ¦ 
in a bullet-proof dog suit”; Mitchell 
Laurance, as the jilted archeologist 
turned Viking wolf-man, for saying “I 
have a hell in mind for you — for both of, 
us”; and Rigert, as the detective,, foil 
saying “It takes more than a Norse god! 
and a mythological beast to get me.” 
Three stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
ijij
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and only 
drive-in critic from Grapevine, Texas. ;;j
('Jotne/Gtnus... ive are the United Wcuj
1MnrmC Une4
SPECIALIZING IN 
STUDENT 
HOUSINOqpCHARLES J. GREVE & CO.REAL ESTATE 308 McKEE PLACE PITTSBURGH. PA 15213 (412)681-0102
CAROLINE O'CONNOR
HAVE YOU CHANGED?
(your address, number, etc.?)C-Book Change of Address Form
PLEASE INDICATE WHICH DATA 
IS TO BE CHANGED
Department
Fràternity/Sorority 
Phone Number:________
Local Address:
Permanent Addresss:
Please Return to either Skibo 54 
or the Skibo Information Desk by 
September 22.
Another A Phi O Service
Dicrn
COLLEGE STUDENTS MAJORING IN
^ _ Allied Health
Professions
Discover a challenging, 
* rewarding future that puts 
you in touch with your skills. 
Today’s Air Force offers ongoing 
opportunities for professional 
development with great pay and 
benefits, normal working hours, 
complete medical and dental care, 
and 30 days vacation with pay per 
year. Learn how to qualify as an 
Air Force health professional. Call
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
COLLECT 
(412) 687-7313
ThoartnnoIt sI Acnvmsml>dm>wR2 !o jf) /s*CTTVm£S PEE
PvAV &BASN./pgota
U/2s1 ID
<'>

---------------------------------------------------

Pim Pe7reM 9 2e7Mmcnm sm88lM 9 Ed VmDrmoFm7 Ewwp!88
Thursday, September 17
Burroughs
There’s good news and bad news about this movie. The bad news is that it’s a documentary; the good news is that it’s a phenomenal documen­tary.In case you’re wondering, Burroughs centers on William S. Burroughs, who has been called the literary dean of the American avant-garde, the father of Beat, the grandaddy of Punk, and one of America’s most drily funny writers. And that’s not all — he’s regarded as one of the greatest literary figures of the twentieth century based on his ideas and expertise with language.
Burroughs features William S. Burroughs, Lauren Hutton, Patti Smith, John Giorno, and Allen Ginsberg, to name a few. Some of the more interesting aspects of his scandalous life are fea­tured here: the shooting of his wife in a drunken William Tell stunt, his affair with Allen Ginsberg, his heroin addiction, and the literary acclaim that came late in life.This sounds better than a soap opera. You know what they say about truth being stranger than fiction. If you enjoy seaminess, then Burroughs is your movie.At 6, 8, & 10 pm.
Friday, September 18
Naked Lunch
Continuing on the Burroughs theme, Naked 
Lunch is David Cronenberg’s (Dead Ringers, The 
Fly, Scanners) adaptation of William S. Burroughs’ cult novel.
Naked Lunch casts Peter Weller as Burroughs. Judy Davis, Roy Scheider, and Ian Holms also star in the film. The film explores the morbid, surreal­istic world of Burroughs, the heroin-addicted writer who served as spokesman for the Beat Generation. Cronenberg’s use of imagery conveys the psychic horrors of Burroughs’ nightmarish adventures in Interzone, a decadent, hallucinatory underground inhabited by junkies, spies, witches, and mon­sters.
Naked Lunch is the winner of two New York Film Critics Circle Awards, one for best support­ing actress that went to Judy Davis and the other for best screenplay that went to David Cronenberg.If you’re for surrealistic entertainment, this film is for you. It has some fascinating special effects and even interspecies sex. What more could you ask for?At 6, 8,10, & midnight.
Saturday, September 19
White Men Can’t Jump
Surely everyone has seen at least one episode of 
Cheers, where Woody Harrelson plays a guileless bartender sidekick for Sam Malone on the small screen. In 'White Men Can’t Jump, Harrelson has wised up. He’s no longer credulous and is quite devious, in fact.Harrelson pairs up with Wesley Snipes of Jungle 
Fever fame. Together, they play a team of hustlers who hustle unsuspecting hoopsters on the basket­ball court.At 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Sunday, September 20
Bucket of Blood
Bucket of Blood is a 1959 film directed by Roger Corman. This amusing spoof of the dead-bodies- in-the-wax-museum genre features Dick Miller in one of his finest movie moments as Walter Paisley. Also starring are Barboura Morris, Anthony Carbone, Julian Burton, Ed Nelson, and Bert "Convy.Writer Charles Griffith’s predecessor to Little 
Shop of Horrors captures the beatnik era well. 
Bucket of Blood showcases the triumph of a wimpy busboy over his coffeehouse betters. His amaz­ingly lifelike “sculptures” are his triumph.But are his “sculptures” really sculptures? You’ll have to watch Bucket of Blood to find out. It’s Sunday evening — what else do you have to do?At 6, 7:30, 9, & 10:30 pm.
sv BmRm eEMmN
By SYD RODRIGUEZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
From the first dark moody 
bassline of Alice in Chains’ 
“Would?” you can tell that you’re 
in for a hell of a ride with the 
soundtrack to the new movie, 
Singles.
Where is this ride going to take 
you? Seattle, probably — that 
hotbed of alternative fusion rock 
where the phrase “grunge music” 
was coined. Now Fast Times at 
Ridgemont High director 
Cameron Crowe is releasing a 
film about the romantic escapades 
of two twenty-something couples 
(played by Matt Dillon, Bridget 
Fonda, Campbell Scott, and Kyra 
Sedgwick) with the Seattle music 
scene as a backdrop.
It’s almost uncanny that Crowe 
is coming out with this film right 
about the time that Pearl Jam 
and Soundgarden are on the 
threshold of major pop stardom. 
They, along with various other 
bands from Seattle, are featured 
on the soundtrack.
The soundtrack features 13 
tracks; 11 are from artists in the 
Seattle scene. The two other 
tracks, “Dyslexic Heart” and 
“Waiting for Somebody” are from 
Paul Westerberg of the Replace­
ments. Pass over these over­
blown, pretentious songs.
There’s enough good stuff on 
the soundtrack to make it a defi­
nite must for any CD collection. 
Pearl Jam continues to unleash 
the power and fire that it showed 
on Ten. They world premiered 
“State of Love and Trust” on MTV 
Unplugged last spring and per­
formed “Breath” during the 1992 
LollapaloozaTour. Soundgarden, 
another Lollapalooza performer, 
contributes a hard-driving “Birth 
Ritual,” that contrasts with lead 
singer Chris Cornell’s more acous-
singles
*r
fid*.
Courtesy of Warner Brothers
tic solo effort, “Seasons.”
Jimi Hendrix, the man who put 
Seattle on the musical map, in­
jects a dose of nostalgia to the 
soundtrack. “May This Be Love” 
is a hypnotic, enchanting song 
that provides the right amount of 
history and psychedelia. The past 
is revisited with the Lovemongers’ 
(basically Heart’s Nancy and Ann 
Wilson) rendition of Led 
Zeppelin’s “Battle of Evermore.” 
Listen to the album with some­
one else and watch the facial ex­
pressions change from confusion, 
to recognition, to utter amuse­
ment as Heart covers the Led 
Zeppelin song.
The next track, “Chloe Dancer/ 
Crown ofThorns,” by Mother Love 
Bone, also hints at nostalgia. The 
group was resurrected to form 
Pearl Jam after lead singer An­
drew Wood overdosed on heroin.
Screaming Trees, Mudhoney, 
and Smashing Pumpkins round 
out the list of Seattle players 
with “Nearly Lost You,” “Over­
blown,” and “Drown,” which 
shows that there is enough of 
this “Seattle thing” to go around.
Vmerr8m IinMmI lM SinglesSpin Doctors’ Pocket 
Full of Kryptonite 
ignites the airwaves
By SYD RODRIGUEZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Spin Doctors’ 1991 re­
lease is getting a lot of airplay 
these days. After appearing on 
Late Night with David 
Letterman in early June, their 
single, “Little Miss Can’t Be 
Wrong” has shot the Spin Doc­
tors into the almost main­
stream.
While their album was tak­
ing off, the band was on the 
road with Blues Traveler and 
Phish on the H.O.R.D.E. tour. 
Pocket Full of Kryptonite dis­
plays a fusion of rock, jazz, and 
blues with a pop edge.
Christopher Barron’s vocals 
have a scratchy, tears-in-your- 
eyes quality that are perfectly 
suited for the witty, sometimes 
goofball lyrics. It is nearly im­
possible not to laugh when you 
hear Barron sing, “Hope you 
hear this song and it pissed you 
off” in “Little Miss Can’t Be 
Wrong.” Tho bitterness of an 
old girlfriend leaving is foil 
through the lyrics and in the 
taunting, in-your-faco manner 
that Barron sings. It is a song 
that nearly everyone at somo 
point in their lives wishes ho or 
she could write and sing to a 
lost love.
The Spin Doctors also do an 
ode to the geeky photographor 
in tho Superman comics in 
“Jimmy Olsen’s Blues” whose 
“got it so bad for little Miss Lois 
Lane.”
With Aaron Comess on 
drums, Mark White on bass, 
and Eric Schinkman on gui­
tars, the Spin Doctors make 
some of the most original pop 
music that the Billboard Top 
100 has seen in quite a while. 
One can take only so much 
Michael Bolton and Bryan 
Adams.
Pocket Full of Kryptonite pro­
vides funky moments during 
“What Time Is It?” and 
“Shindone Alley” and feel-good 
moments during “Two Princes.” 
On the track “Off My Line,” 
guitarist Schinkman steps in 
to play lead vocalist to show­
case a harsher, grittier Spin 
Doctors. This Epic release is a 
hot item and well worth the of 
money spent on it.
The Thistle is funded by the Student Activities Fee.
Don't be a blank spot. Your college yearbook 
is a lasting memory of a great part of your life.
For your sake, and others,VncM 1D ’qUttt get your picture taken.
Hm,efIm rim .me7Fllu 
nI .lf7Fllu
VmMnl7 an,rf7mI VmDrmoFm7 p? rl q,rlFm7 w 
VncM 1D PinI Ummu er Slim7r4 ve88 
2e88 rim 4me7Fllu lhhn,m ObpEpE) 3nri /fmIrnlMI
Ar isn’t your Yearbook until you’re in it.

---------------------------------------------------

/N
VE
Ü1WSt
WINNER
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS - Judy D.ivn 
BEST SCREENPLAY - Dnv.d CroMC.be.,>
’kU .qB“ &A!s 2BAPA2V 2AB2!k NUNBS
Strange poster heralds a strange film. Catch Peter Weller as William S. Burroughs 
In Naked Lunch, which plays at DH 2210 on Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at the Friends Meeting House, 
and the cost is $3. For more informa­
tion, call 276-1768 in the evenings.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 
1507, will have open office hours for 
students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday 
and Friday until December 15. During 
these times, a staff member is available 
to discuss legal problems, such as secu­
rity deposits and leases, that are re­
lated to University life. They will not 
provide legal assistance for personal 
legal matters but can make referrals to 
attorneys in private practice.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet­
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathe­
dral of Learning G-13 (basement). For 
more information, call 343-1907.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okin­
awan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
Amnesty International will have an 
information/petition table in front of 
Doherty Hall on Wednesday. Support 
human rights. Call Erik Seligman at 
x3828 for more information.
Food for Thoughts: Student govern­
ment is looking for input on current 
and potential projects. Members will 
staff a table by the Clock on Wednesday 
from 11 am to 1 pm. Collect a (Hershey) 
ki ss and let them know what you think, 
or find out what they think. Watch 
assocs.student-senate.official for a 
schedule of who will be staffing the 
table.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ- 
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. We offer BOC and 
opportunities for business contacts. All 
majors are welcome. Questions? Call 
Aurora at x8310.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come 
to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women’s 
Discussion Group for friendly talk and 
fim. Meetings will now be held on Sat-
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Monster in a Box plays at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse nightly at 7:30 and 
9:30 pm through Thursday.
One False Move plays at Filmmakers 
at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) through 
Sunday. Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Howards End plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse nightly at 7 pm through 
Wcdnosday, September 31.
Burroughs plays at DII2210 on Thurs­
day. Shows aro at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Naked Lunch plays at DH 2210 on 
Friday. Shows are at 6,8,10, and mid­
night.
Adam’s llib plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
from Friday through Thursday, Sep­
tember 24.
White Men Can’t Jump plays on Sat­
urday in DH 2210. Shows are at 6,8,10, 
and midnight.
Bucket of Blood plays at DH 2210 on 
Sunday. Shows are at 6, 7:30, 9, and 
10:30 pm.
Foreign language tables, sponsored 
by the Modern Language Program, will 
be held each week of the Fall semester. 
Mondays: Hebrew Language Table 
(sponsored by Hillel) 11:30-1 pm in 
Morewood Cafeteria; Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese “Brown Bag” 
Lunch) at 12 pm in BH160; Tuesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) 12-1:30 pm in 
Morewood Cafeteria; Wednesdays: La 
Table Fra ncaise (French)ll :30-l :15 pm 
in Morewood Cafeteria; La Mesa 
Española (Spanish) 11:30-1 pm in 
Morewood Cafeteria; Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) 11:30- 
12:45 pm in Morewood Cafeteria.
Careerline is a new radio program 
which is sponsored by the Career Cen­
ter. Listen for it on Monday evenings 
after the 5 o’clock news on WRCT (88.3 
FM). Today’s program will be about 
graduate school issues.
cmuOUT, CMU’s gay, lesbian, and bi­
sexual group, will hold its weekly meet­
ing tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
urdays at 7 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody­
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101 
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics 1,24-141 Statics 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His­
tory, 85-100 Cognitive Processes, and 
88-103 Decision Making. CMAP tutor­
ing takes place Sunday through Thurs­
day from 6-9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. 
Call x2150 for more information.
official.career-center is a bboard in 
its second year of operation on which 
you can access occupational outlook 
data, workshop information, new Ca­
reer Library book notices, campus in­
terview postings, and job leads for school 
year/off campus, summer and profes­
sional employment. All majors and class 
levels are encouraged to subscribe.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net­
work is looking for students/parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
helping them through babysitting. For 
more information, call or write David 
Pegher at x4840, Box 1107, or email 
dp31.
day, October 11. For more information, 
call 361-4235.
Phipps Conservatory presents its 
annual Fall Flower Show entitled “On 
the Horizon” from Saturday through 
Sunday, October 11 from 9 am to 5 pm 
daily. Call 622-6915 for information.
Sports
Music
The Damaged Pies will play at The 
Decade on Monday at 9 pm. Sponsored 
by WRCT-FM.
River City Brass Band will perform 
at Mount Lebanon High School South 
on Tuesday at 8 pm, at the Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland on Friday at 8 
pm, and again at the Carnegie Music 
Hall in Oakland on Saturday at 8 pm. 
For more information and reservations, 
call the box office at 322-RCBB.
Music Lives, the Pittsburgh Interna­
tional Music Festival, will run from 
Wednesday through Saturday at the 
Fulton Theatre. Most performances 
begin at 7 pm and feature artists from 
Argentina, Australia, China, Greece, 
Finland, Iran, Italy, Mexico, Puerto 
Rico, Russia, USA, and Vietnam. For 
more information, call 422-9990.
Theater
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a 
Bible study at Tech House on Tuesday 
from 5 to 6 pm. Tech House will also 
host a movie night on Friday at 8:30 
pm. For more information, call x4391.
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat 
plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIA main auditorium. Call The 
Oratory at 681-3181 for information.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the corner of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:15 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11 am in their church lo­
cated on the corner of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Brian Vanderwel at 621-4361.
Prelude to a Kiss will open on Wednes­
day at 8 pm at the Upstairs Theatre. A 
reception will immediately follow the 
performance. Call 361-5443 for reser­
vations.
Death Writes, a comedy/mystery by 
Cheryl Young, plays at the New Group 
Theater (5118 Penn Avenue) through 
Saturday, September 26. Tickets are 
$5 for students. For more information 
and reservations, call 361-2488.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087. Go out 
and support Carnegie Mellon’s sports 
teams.
The volleyball team plays at Bethany 
College on Tuesday at 6 pm and on 
Friday and atthe Washington andLee 
University Tournament on Saturday 
at 5 pm.
The women’s tennis team plays at 
Chatham College on Wednesday at 4 
pm, at Gannon University on Saturday 
at 1 pm, and at Penn State — Behrend 
College with Rochester and Frostburg 
State on Sunday at 12 pm.
The women’s soccer team plays at 
Allegheny College on Wednesday 'at 
5:30 pm and at University of Chicago 
on Saturday at 11 am.
The men’s tennis team plays at Al­
legheny College on Friday at 3 pm.
The men’s cross country team com­
petes atthe Indiana University ofPenn- 
sylvania Invitational on Saturday at
11 am.
The women’s cross country team
competes at the University of Pitts­
burgh — Johnstown Invitational on 
Saturday at 11 am.
The men’s soccer team plays at Uni­
versity of Chicago on Saturday at 1 pm.
The football team hosts University of 
Rochester on Saturday at 1:30 pm in 
Gesling Stadium.
Hirokazu Fukawa, a visiting artist 
at CMU, lectures as part of the Art 
Department Fall Lecture Series on 
Tuesday at 5 pm in DH 2315. Lectures 
are free and open to all. For more infor­
mation, call x2409
Joanne Stepaniak, author of Eco­
logical Cooking, will speak on Wednes­
day from 7 to 9 pm in the Co-op Cafe at 
the East End Food Co-op (in The Fac­
tory, 7516 Meade Street). For more 
information, call 242-3598 .
Send Calendar or Vox Populi 
submissions to: The Tartan, 
Attn. Calendar Editor, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA cxvcUT >O send
uisevE siTk lC uikP45iU P5TR
lCUF lL1 ldwrdnF Egota TnhawR
ydroan 51pgb Cw Baf zdn Gwa,
SUBMISSIONS IN THE CALENDAR
Editor's Mailbox at The Tar­
tan office (Skibo 50). You can
ALSO DROP SUBMISSIONS VIA
AppleShare in the Calendar 
and Vox Populi drop folders in 
the Tartan's server, Skibo 
zone. Please limit submissions
TO FIFTY WORDS OR LESS. DEAD­
LINE is 5 pm the Thursday before
THE NEXT ISSUE. PLACEMENT IS NOT 
GUARANTEED. ORIGINAL VOX
ea,fVo dnG udV1nGdw 1nrwo1p 
zdnnar t1 w1rfwn1Gb
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery will 
display the works of Adrienne Salinger 
through Saturday, September 26. For 
more information, call 681-5449.
The University Chinese Club of 
Pittsburgh presents a program en­
titled “An Adventure in Chinese Dances, 
Opera, Kung-fu, & Folk Songs” on Tues­
day at 8 pm at the Bellefield Hall Audi­
torium at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Tickets cost $2 for students and are 
available atthe Skibo Information Desk, 
at the William Pitt Union at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, or at the door.
The Associated Artists Gallery, lo­
cated in the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, will display the works of Michael 
Campbell from Friday through Sun-
¡¡/•¦3 ¦/ '¦ ¦':< p* Jf ...wmiAiJ
w£m •
— ' — 9 (p Wm
¦Ætmp
MW
Yes, you, too, can be in Vox 
Populi.
All you have to do is write 
down your entry and drop it in 
the Calendar editor’s mailbox 
In The Tartan office (Skibo 50) 
or drop it into the Vox Populi 
folder on The Tartan server in 
the Skibo zone. Please keep 
submissions under 50 words.
Team Xerox:We don’t just copy, we compare ...
Has it been 7 months?It seems like only yesterday.
“It’s not pity ... it’s my penis.”— Chris
“It’s too bad your penis is a pity.”— MK
I will not eat them Mehr-a-bian.I will not eat green eggs and ham.— P
Tuition decrease???That would be like putting a speaker in the hologram.
“I’d take Peter out to dinner, but then he’d owe me $38.”— Chris
Giving condoms to people causes births. Faulty logic, don’t you think?
MM 102: Gotta love Sorority Rush— NOT!
T: Try using two hands.C: A real man uses one hand.
