1TARTAN
October 4,1977 Volume 78, Number 5 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Cyert delivers address
by Wendolf Dolson
CMU President Richard Cyert delivered 
his annual “State of the University” ad­
dress last Tuesday, September 20, before 
the CMU faculty. An annual feature of the 
President’s presentation was the announ-' 
cement of two awards for excellence of
* particular CMU faculty members. Cyert’s 
talk also included an evaluation of the Uni­
versity’s financial and academic status.
Dr. Irving H. Bartlett, Professor of ftis-
Callery to open soon
by Belinda Quan
Within the next two weeks, the Depart­
ment of Design will open a new art gallery 
on the third floor of Baker Hall. Though 
an official name has not yet been chosen 
Porter-Hewlett Gallery is a possibility. The 
gallery will be used to exhibit works done 
by students in class, works by the faculty 
f and works by outside artists.
Mr. Mark Mentzer has been delegated 
to schedule the gallery’s shows and dir­
ect their preparation. The gallery will 
feature theme shows, one man shows 
and group shows. Each faculty member 
will be responsible for Choosing works 
done by their students for exhibit. He may 
also be asked to invite a person in his
i field to show works at the gallery.
Although the gallery will be run by the 
faculty, students will be involved through 
the Student Advisory Committee (SAC). 
The SAC will form a Committee to help 
organize exhibits, however it will not 
help choose the works to be displayed. 
Student volunteers or work study students 
will staff the gallery when it is open to the
. continued on oaae three
tory was named the seventeenth recipient 
of the Ryan Award for Meritous Teaching. 
This commendation came, in part, in rec­
ognition of Bartlett’s numerous publica­
tions and consulting achievements; more 
importantly, however, this honor was bes­
towed in appreciation of Professor Bart­
lett’s inspirational teaching (see article 
on page 2).
The Philip M. McKenna Memorial 
Award, which recognizes accomplishments 
in the realms of metal-working, mining, or 
metallurgy, was won by William O. Phil- 
brook, Professor of Metallergy and Mat­
erials Science for his outstanding contri­
butions to process metallurgy. Philbrook 
was cited for a record of more than 40 
years of innovation at CMU and for his 
distinguished roles in the American Associ­
ation for the Advancement of Science, the 
American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical 
and Petroleum Engineers, and the Amer­
ican Society for Metals, in which he is a 
Fellow.
The main body of Cyert’s lecture re­
garded his aim to establish a “great Uni­
versity.” To this end, he repeatedly 
stressed the school’s financial position 
that CMU’s fiscal record was “in the 
•black” for the Fifth straight year was duly 
•noted, as was the continuing effort to pay 
off the withstanding deficit without 
draining the University’s endowment. The 
President termed CMU’s dependance on 
under-graduate tuition as a commitment to 
practical higher education.
In concluding, Cyert enumerated several 
“strategies” for upgrading quality within 
the University. The non-rigid faculty salary 
policy at CMU, upon which he painstak­
ingly elaborated, was the groundwork for 
some of these suggestions. One method of 
encouraging faculty excellence already em-
continued on page two
President Cyert reports good news.
Alumni to return
Hurry up and come on down! Every­
one’s coming back for homecoming week­
end.
Homecoming festivities begin Friday 
afternoon at 12:30 when lecturers cease 
lecturing, teachers cease teaching and stu­
dents their studying, and the long weekend 
begirts.
At the same time, the class of ’27 will 
‘hold their golden anniversary reunion. All 
other classes graduating in years ending in
2 or 7 will also hold reunions this weekend.
Other reunion activities include a cham­
pagne reception and dinner in Skibo Ball­
room, Friday night followed by a pre-game 
warmup party. Saturday, a dinner dance 
will occur at the William Penn Hotel.
Friday night’s pep rally for the entire 
campus community should psyche every­
one up for Saturday's CMU vs. Washington 
and Jefferson football game. True sports 
enthusiasts will delight in the dramatic 
close of the C-MU, Case Western Reserve, 
and W&J track meet, scheduled to con­
clude during halftime on the field.
Besides sports and reunion activities. 
President Cyert will report the state of the 
University at 9 .45 Saturday. Afterwards 
an ox-roast lunch will be served on the cut, 
as hot air balloons, and art displays take 
off. Music to munch lunch by will be pro­
vided by the Kiltie Band. Additionally, 
fraternities have special homecoming 
events prepared for their returning alumni.
SDC results suprise Gregoinside
by Dan Livak
Sam Grego, SDC President was pleased 
with the vote to increase the activities fee.
^ He was suprised almost 80% voted in fa­
vor : he expected greater resistance. Grego 
wasn’t surprised at the voting on the door 
locking issue, though, commenting, “The 
vote to lock More wood and Henderson 
was quite decisive, but the vote not to lock
the other dorms was often very close. The 
small turnout might not really have been a 
good indication of how the residents feel. I 
definitely think, however, that the resi­
dents are the ones who should decide the 
issue.”
Grego expressed a desire to improve the 
quality of the organization of SDC. He 
feels SDC fails to have the strong, cohesive
Sam Grego, SDC president
clout that it might have with the Adminis­
tration. “I’d like to see a lot more student 
involvement.” Grego said, “and if enough 
people showed interest, we might try to 
change a few things. SDC has authority 
over relatively small areas; I think the Ad­
ministration has the control of the impor­
tant areas, and their stand on keeping con­
trol of these areas is getting firmer. I think 
SDC should exert more control than they 
have in the past.”
A recent frustration within the SDC 
came when the Morewood desk was shut 
down. According to Grego the SDC was 
told, not consulted with, on the decision. 
This action has led to doubts about the 
stature of the organization within the uni­
versity.
New SDC members expressed how they 
felt about increasing the authority of SDC. 
and most voiced definite approval. Several- 
cited the recent closing of the Morewood 
Desk as a blatant display of how little con­
trol SDC has in making dorm policy dec­
isions. As Morewood representative Leslie 
Hershberg said, “...housing...should have 
come to SDC and asked our opinion on the 
matter. We should be the ones to consult 
the Administration about what should be 
closed, not them telling us.”
continued on page two
news
Results of SDC voting (p. 2)
New college study halted (p. 2)
Student Senate happenings (p. 3)
Lackner injured;team m«/ suffer (p. 17) 
Coach ¡Clausing pleased with team (p. 17) 
Sportswomen have a winning week (p. 18)
entertainment
Welcome to L. A.: tiresome (p. 13)
P.B.T. improves -Romeo and Juliet (p. 14)
lofio
The Search for Buckskin Bill (p.9)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—TARTAN—October 4, 1977
Bartlett receives award
by Belinda Quan
Dr. Irving H. Bartlett, Professor of His­
tory at CMU won the 1977 Ryan Award 
for meritous teaching, given yearly by 
CMU. Pres. Richard Cyert announced the 
award at the fall faculty meeting, Septem­
ber 20.
In naming the seventeenth recipient of 
the award, the selection committee cited 
Bartlett as an excellent administrator and 
scholar. H&SS Dean J. Patrick Crecine 
added, “Bartlett is recognized by his col-
Study left 
incomplete
by Brian Byrnes
In May, it was reported that a study was 
being undertaken to evaluate the poss­
ibility of forming a two year upper-level 
college within CMU to complement two 
years of work at the Community College 
of Allegheny County (CCAC). The Pres­
ident of CCAC, Dr. John B. Hirt, was given 
a four month leave of absence from that in­
stitution and was appointed visiting pro­
fessor here to study the feasibility of the 
college.
Now more than four months later, the 
study is still not complete and may not be 
for sometime. The then Acting President
suffered a heart attack, which forced Dr. 
Hirt to resume his duties at CCAC.
Dr. Hirt did, however, submit a prelim­
inary report to President Cyert and the 
Executive Committee. President Cyert was 
not available for comment, but Richard B. 
Barnhart, Assistant to the President said 
that the committee has looked over the re­
port, but it would not make a final deci­
sion until the study is completed and a 
final report is submitted.
The college, if formed, would provide 
courses for engineering technicians, nurses, 
and students interested in computer train­
ing and accounting. This school would use 
campus facilities at night and during the 
summer.
leagues and students as an effective human­
ist, professionally demanding, yet suppor­
tive and approachable.”
Bartlett graduated from Ohio Wesleyan 
and received his M.S. and Ph.D. at Brown 
University. Unable to find work, he be­
came a lecturer on American Civilization 
for the U.S. Information Service in 
Pakistan.
When he returned to the U.S., he taught 
at a teacher’s college for a year. The next 
six years he taught at the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. Then, he became 
the first president of Cape Cod Community 
College in Hyannis, Mass. And in 1964, 
Bartlett came to CMU to head the history 
department until 1971.
During his twenty five years teaching,
Bartlett wrote several books, including
From Slave to Citizen: The Story of the
Negro in Rhode Island; Wendell Phillips;
Brahmin Radical: The American Mind in the Mid-Nineteenth Century; and the soon
to be published biography of Daniel Web­
ster. Also, Bartlett served as consultant on 
two film documentaries produced by 
WQED.
Bartlett describes himself as an intel­
lectual historian, with his primary interest 
in nineteenth century American concepts. 
Bartlett is interested in the meaning of 
democracy and the conflict between re­
formers and the establishment. In his 
Problems in American History, and Pat­
terns in America classes, Bartlett tries to 
show the relevance of history.
Ticket sales
The Skibo Information Desk, in coop­
eration with the Pittsburgh Penguins and 
the Civic Arena, is now selling tickets to all 
Penguin home games at the special student 
rate of $4.00.
This is almost 50% off the price of a 
regular-price Penguin ticket.
The first home game for the Penguins is 
Wednesday, October 12, when they will 
play the St. Louis Blues. Tickets are avail­
able at the Information Desk.
CMUM
Irving H. Bartlett, Professor of History wins Ryan Award.
Intramurals start
by Lennie Maxjasko
CMU’s Intramural program offers every 
CMU student the chance to participate in 
some type of competitive sport. Intra­
mural Director Earl Birdy, strongly encour­
ages students to take advantage of the pro­
gram. “We provide the facilities, the 
officials and the equipment. All you have 
to do is show up and play.”
To enter a team into the program, one 
should pick up an official entry sheet from 
the I.M. office in the gym, and fill it out. 
listing team members, team name, ream
manager and return the form with a $2.50 
forfeit fee, returnable if the team forfeits 
no games.
The team will then receive a season 
schedule. Mr. Birdy especially encourages
^more women to participate in I.M. sports, 
commenting, “If enough women are integ­
rated in an I.M. sport, we’ll make up 
separate league.” Women are, however, 
welcome to play in all I.M. games, regard­
less of the league.
The intramural constitution composed 
by fraternity, dorm, and graduate students 
states specific guidelines concerning eligi­
bility of varsity members to play intra­
mural sports. “No student team partici­
pating in an intramural sport shall be^ 
allowed to have on its roster more than one 
player who has won a varsity letter in that 
sport in college in the last five years.”
I.M. team entries for volleyball, squash, 
and table tennis are due today. Soccer 
team and bowling team entries are due 
two weeks from today.
SDC election results announced
continued from page one
The chances of strengthening SDC at 
the expense of the Administration are 
doubtful. The Administration shows no de­
sire to lessen their control, and as SDC re­
presentative Bob Weston said, “It sounds 
good talking about increasing our power, 
but the Administration is tough, and 
they’re the only ones who can give SDC 
more power.”
SDC ELECTION RESULTS
Locking Ref.
N=not to lock 
Y=to lock
Scobell
Welch
Hammerschlag 
Henderson 
Boss, McGill 
Doh., Rose., Wood. 
Donner
Fee Ref.Doh., Roselawn, John GolecIlene Sleiner
N=increase feeWoodlawn Doug O’LearyKaren Womack*
Y=leave fee as isDon Miller C, D:Susan Fudman
Julie GoetzJerilynne Michaels
NYDiane HulikAltana Bullard
Hill Dorms15139DONNERDebby Fram
Morewood12548Bill Reine*Leslie Hershberg
Total % N — 76%
Total % Y - 24%
SDC REPRESENTATIVES
N
15
11
22
1
14
20
53
Y
13
8
11
8
11
6
31
Scobell
Welch
Henderson
Boss-McGill
Morewood
HILL
David Sochc 
Jim Balsam 
Boz Skaggs
Jef Poskauzer
Stuart Friedman 
Steve Montgomery 
Ken Goldfarb 
Bert deVues 
* Tie: Gerceen/Metzger
Steve Wigman 
Joel Bauman 
Tom Dries 
Todd ureenwood
Abby Selman 
Rich Tucker 
Carolyn Stuart 
Pat Petry 
Mory Brenner 
Tim Roscoe
MUDGE
Dan Monaco 
Fr. Siegel 
Bob Gleeson 
Jean Pelagrimi 
Bob Furlow
SHIRLEY/WEBSTER
Karen Donovan 
Franny Roman 
(one opening to fill)
MOREWOOD GARDENS
Mindie Jo Snyder
E, vApts.): Carol Colledge*^
E; Paruiz Zadeh
“Alex*1 Alexander 
Bob Quigley 
Bob Weston
Bemie Ivanschultz 
* 4^seats remain, with 10 people tied for
them
**3 tied for 1 remaining seat______________Cyert
continued from page one 
ployed is making raises on a merit basis 
(not cost-of-living). Further, since there 
are no rigid pay scales, the Unviersity can 
continue to upgrade its faculty through the 
purchase ot “stars” and of top-notch 
young faculty. Another means of improve­
ment is to continually develop and exploi^ 
new resources. Finally, the President 
spoke of the importance of a general am­
bience. a quality environment.
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about food service,

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1977—TARTAN—Page 3
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
If the length of a meeting is an indi­
cation of productivity, it will suffice to say- 
that Senate met briefly last Wednesday.
Chairperson Dave Roussos was again 
faced with seven empty chairs as he called 
the meeting to order. The following con­
stituencies each have an opening : SUPA, 
H&SS, CIT, MIS and GSIA. CFA is an ex­
ception with two seats available. Vivian 
Kerstein, Chairperson of the Information 
Committee, plans to officially announce all 
Senate openings.
Senate has recieved four petitions to fill 
vacancies in CIT and H&SS, but chose to 
to wait until October 12 to review them. 
Ken Meinert motioned for this postpone­
ment, as he felt that all students were not 
aware of the openings, and that the ad 
might spark those interested to gather their 
25 signatures.
Meinert also reported attending the City 
Planning Board meeting during which the 
proposal for the new dorm construction 
was presented. The proposal awaits a rec­
ommendation from the Board, with the 
ultimate decision resting with the City 
Council.
Roussos concluded the meeting by re­
minding senators and guests that a change 
in meeting time will appear in the TAR­
TAN and be posted at the Information 
Desk. Senate promised to spend the rest 
of the week conjouring items to discuss 
under “New Business,” hopefully adding 
substance to the October 5 session.
Fire safety 
drills occur
CMU experienced the first fire drills of 
the school year one week ago today.
Morewood Gardens and Mudge House 
were the buildings that were tested.
According to Bob Anderegg, Coodin- 
ator of Safety and Security, evacuation of 
Mudge was completed in 4 minutes, which 
is “pretty good.” Morewood Gardens, 
which was completely evacuated in about 5 
minutes, cleared out “reasonably well.” 
Anderegg explained that the time differ­
ence was because he pulled the fire alarms 
to the individual towers one after the 
other, instead of just pulling a single alarm 
for the entire building. If the general 
alarm had been pulled, Morewood would 
have been evacuated in 3-4 minutes, figures 
Anderegg.
On Thursday, Woodlawn Apartments, 
Spirit House, and four fraternities had their 
first fire drills. Anderegg said that in gen­
eral there has been “good response” to the 
alarms, although there was “a little in­
decision as to whether or not to evacuate 
at Woodlawn. He figures that that inde­
cision cost 1 minute in the total evacuation 
time.
Anderegg wishes to remind students 
that fire alarm systems for main campus 
buildings and residence buildings are tested 
on a monthly basis. These tests should not 
be confused with fire drills. The systems 
tests are held on the last Thursday and Fri­
day of each month, during daylight hours. 
Fire bells heard at any other time should 
be considered signals for evacuating the 
building, to allow equipment through, and 
wait for an all-clear signal before returning 
inside.
Gallery to open
continued from»page one
public between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
(The time is not yet definite.) In the 
future, the SAC may even hold social func­
tions in the gallery.
The idea of a gallery has been floating 
around the Design Department for a few 
years. In the past, the' third floor hallway 
was used to display student works and the 
Hewlett Gallery, faculty works. But the 
hallwav was not very safe, pieces were
sometimes stolen. The room for the gal­
lery was used for storage, when the idea 
of the gallery was finally consolidated; a 
budget was established, lhe storage room 
was cleared; the floor, carpeted; and the 
walls, panelled.
Mr. Mentzer is optimistic about the fut­
ure of the gallery. He sees it as a chance 
for more students, faculty, and especially 
community involvement in the CMU 
Design Department.
MASS-BUFFET - DISCUSSION
TUESDAY - OCTOBER 4 6:00 P.M.
CMU'S CHAPEL (SKIBO 39)
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass Hunt Library
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass Multi Purpose
Room
DAILY MASSES: 12:30 Noontime
Monday through Friday CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
CMU’s R.C. Chaplaincy 681-3181
SPECTROSCOPY 
SOCIETY OF 
PITTSBURGH
OCTOBER 10. 1977
Dr. Fred E. Lytle,
Purdue University 
Use of Lasers In Applied 
Spectroscopy
8:30 P.M. 
Duquesne University
Mellon Science Bldg., Maurice 
Falk Lecture Hall,
Meeting Open to all Interested
10 MINUTES OF YOUR TIME COULD SAVE A FRIEND’S LIFE.
In the time it takes 
to drive your friend home, you 
could save his life.
If your friend’s been 
drinking too much, he shouldn’t 
be driving.
The automobile crash is 
the number one cause of death 
of people your age. And the 
ironic thing is that the drunk 
drivers responsible for killing 
young people are most often 
other young people.
Take ten minutes. Or 
twenty. Or an hour. Drive your 
friend home. That’s all. If you 
can’t do that, call a cab. Or let 
him sleep on your couch.
We’re not asking you to 
be a doctor or a cop. Just a friend.
I |DRUNK DRIVER, DEPT. Y*
BOX 2345
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 20852 
I want to save a friend’s life.
Tell me what else I can do.
My name is.
Address___
• Citv_______.State,-Zip.
^JYOCIM MHiMWAY SAFETY ADVISORY IOMMITTFF
IF YOU UTÄ FRIEND MOVE DRUNK, YOU’RE NO FRIEND.
U S DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
then call the Food Service Director’s Hot Line, 621-2127, Monday 5-6pm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—TARTAN—October 4, 1977
Fellowship promotes religon
Rats 
Sighted
Two roommates have reported seeing 
rats dart across the front steps of Skibo at 
night.
The two girls, who wish to remain anon­
ymous, said that one rat was skittering 
down the long steps and another one was 
running across the plateau between the two 
sets of steps. When asked if they were cer­
tain that they had seen rats, one girl re­
plied, “oh, they were rats, alright.” This 
happened Thursday night.
A few weeks ago, a visiting friend of a 
Morewood resident claimed he saw a rat 
run through the Skibo parking lot.
Fallen tar 
closes gym
Tar from the gym roof recently leaked 
onto the floor of the main gym. According 
to a physical education department secre­
tary, the tar falling was a result of roof re­
pairs.
The defaced gym floor had to be repol­
ished and finished, which necessitated gym 
closing last Thursday evening. One person 
inconvenienced by the closure, told the 
TARTAN that this news was not an­
nounced to those who had already sched­
uled activities to occur in the gym that 
evening.
by Linda Deak
Functioning as a “community in Christ, 
Time Out is a major activity within the 
Shadyside College Fellowship.'The Christ­
ian organization meets at the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church for Sunday evenings 
of “fun, singing, movies, concerts, short 
talks, prayer, and sharing needs and con­
cerns.”
Mike Steidel, a senior at CMU, has 
recently been appointed chairperson of 
Time Out’s planning committee. Speaking 
on behalf of the fellowship, Steidel re­
marks, “Time Out facilitates learning and 
experiencing what it is like to be tuned 
into a closer communication with Jesus 
Christ.”
Each meeting carries a central theme, 
which is discussed by a guest lecturer.
You can’t save the whole world, but maybe just alittle piece.
Progress comes in 
inches. But even inches add 
up. A few lives here. A few 
lives there. And what the 
Peace Corps will do for your 
life is more than we can ever 
tell you. Call the Peace Corps. 
And maybe you can help get 
the world back together, a 
piece at a time. The Peace 
Corps is alive and well.
Call toll free: Cl
800-424-8580.
A Public Service ot This Newsiaix.-r K The Advertising Corn* ii
We have a few openings in 
the vineyard. Come labor 
with us. The hours are long. 
The pay is low. All we 
promise is the opportunity to 
help others and a quiet price 
in your work. A few people 
will even thank you. One 
will be eternally grateful. His 
name is God.____________________
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, con­
tact: Father O'Toole, Pittsburgh Diocese, 11 1 Blvd. of the 
Allies, 15222 or call 412-456-3070.
A volleyball game frequently initiates 
the “get acquainted” period, followed by 
reports from other committees within the 
fellowship, (How Should We Then Live 
and the University Class). A major por­
tion of the meeting time is devoted to 
“sharing needs and concerns”, this includ­
ing prayer and a discussion of “how Christ 
may be incorporated into daily Christian 
activities.” Time Out concludes its ses­
sions with an informal talk session, during 
which refreshments are served and new 
faces invited to continue in the fellowship.
The group participates in a series of 
“Social Alternatives” scheduled through­
out the semester. A white water rafting trip 
was taken recently, and a “night in the 
country”, complete with hayride, is slated 
for October 8. Also planned area Hallo­
ween extravaganza, Sadie Hawkins dance, 
and a candelight dinner.
The October 9 meeting will pertain to 
“What it means to Live a Committed 
- Christian Life”. As chairperson, Steidel 
invites guests to join the fellowship at the 
Sunday evening meeting, and as a member 
of the Christian community, he invites 
others to attend and “increase the bonds 
of Christian brotherhood.”
Steidel concludes, “Being a Christian in 
today’s society is not an easy task. Time 
Out acts as a rock, in terms of one being 
able to depend on its strength. Whether 
you are up or down, you can depend on 
the support of Christ working through the 
group. It’s always there. The idea of uni­
versal brotherhood through Christ gives 
you the strength to pick yourself up and 
throw yourself back into the game.”
TARTAN NEWS STAFF MEETING
THUR. 7:30 ROOM 50
THE PERFECT SOLUTION
To Help Spread Your Food Budget 
To Supplement Your Meal Contract 
To Avoid Carrying Cash All Over 
Campus
Take Advantage Of This Very Special
SALE
J2zs>
THE FOOD SERVICE COUPON
GOOD AT ANY FACILITY
$20 worth of coupons - Regularly — $19 Now $18 
$10 worth of coupons - Regularly—$9.50 Now $9
MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE BOOK STORE 
OR SKIBO RM 62
OFFER GOOD THROUGH TUESDAY, OCT. 18th.

---------------------------------------------------

CMU 
FOOD SERVICEP c
CROSSWORD
N 
T 
E 
S 
T
CLUES
ACROSS
1 . Bird, not often consumed; 
Publisher
6. Distraction in some cafes
13. "_______________________at the
table, before I ate." 2 wds.
14. Dessert toppings
16. Dean Martin's way of cook
17. Early Brew
18. To present, as in check
19. ’A boy named
20. Too much. abv.
21. A process for Butter, before it is 
creamed.
23. Cow
24. Musical Note
25. Type of Root
26. (Daily clue will be Posted in Tartan 
Grill 11:30 -1:30 on October 7th)
30. (Daily Clue will be posted in Tar­
tan Grill 11:30 - 1:30 on October 13th)
34. Legislative Produce
35. Tic Tac Toe Letters
36. A French Toast
38. Stuns; Stories
40. An Article
41. The Author, Anis
42. Type of Firing Process
43. To Filet
45. Partner to an Adam
46. Avian Domicile
49. Back of two boats
50. Comedy Team, minus the latter; 
Bob only
51. (Daily Clue will be posted in Tar­
tan Grill 11:30 - 1:30 on October 6th)
DOWN
1. (Daily Clue will be posted in Tar­
tan Grill 11:30-l :30 on October 12th)
2. Things that hold sauces together, 
diplomats
3. Question for debate
4. Serve, as in Food
5. Where it's_______!
6. Oriental Beverage
7. Regulation; rule, abv.
8. As easy as, but not mom's
9. Famous * Monster's Initials
10. (Daily clue, will be posted in Tar­
tan Grill 11:30-l :30 on October 11th)
11. Three piece fashion
12. Lucky Numbers
14. (Daily Clue will be Posted in Tar- 
tain Grill 11:30 - 1:30 on October 5th)
15. Sun Yat -__________
16. Styles, Fashions
21. Talk back to
22. Eithers and__________
25. Mr. Power, the Actor
26. Several Chapters of Soldier's Club
27. Volatile liquid hydrocarbon
28. Poisoned mushrooms will lead to 
this
29. (Daily clue will be posted in Tar- 
tain Grill 11:30 - 1:30 on October 
10th)
31. French Sweet
32. Too many impurities, as in water.
33. Paddle
36. Regular state of affairs, esp. 
Military, Abv.
37. Poor Negatives
38. Hires or Dad's giveaway, abv.
39. Vegetable
43. Clear tables
44. CIA forerunner, abv.
47. Mr. Menken
48. Language of Magna Carta, abv.
49____________________K; alright.
RULES
1. The Daily Clue will be posted each weekday in the Tartain Grill from 11:30- 1:30.
2. Winning entries shall be brought to Skibo Rm. 62. for verification.
3. All winners must be C-MU students, staff or faculty.
4. First Prize — $20.00 Food Service Coupon Book. Good in any food service area. 
2nd Prize - $10.00 Food Service Coupon Book.
3rd - 5th Prize - A Pizza with the works in the Tartan grill.
All Others - Pride in a job well done.
5. Good Luck!

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Almost 101 things to do 
with a valid CMU ID.
Is a valid Carnegie-Me/lon I.D. all it's cracked up to be?
Possibly, but I’m not sure.
This past week, in preparation for this editorial, I did a 
lot of research into this question. I’ve come up with a 
list of 'what a CMU I.D. can do for its bearer’, and I’m 
leaving it up to the reader to decide if it’s something worth 
holding onto.
First of all, is it worth what you pay for it?
In some cases, definitely not. For instance, to get your 
I.D. validated at the start of each semester costs $1,700 in 
tuition alone. That’s a lot of money to pay for a little pink 
card with your picture on it and a date stamped on the back. 
But in some other cases, a CMU I.D. is worth every cent you 
pay for it. If you lose your first I.D., a second one costs 
only a mere $2.50. After that, each I.D. you lose also only 
costs $2.50. So, according to my calculations, a student 
could get 680 I.D. cards for the same price he pays for his 
first one. The only problem is, it’s impossible to buy the 
second, third or fourth I.D. ’s without buying the first one.
So, accepting the fact that it’s going to cost you an arm 
and a leg to get the first I.D., let’s figure out if it’s worth 
having. It’s great at Frat parties if you ’re a freshman or a girl, 
but it's worthless to anyone else. Yet all students, regardless 
of their class, are required to pay at least $1, 700 for the 
validated /. D. Perhaps the administration could work out an 
arrangement where Freshmen pay a few hundred dollars 
more for their I.D. ’s, since they get more use out of them.
Since an I.D. is a perfect proof of age, it’s great to use to 
get into bars. That is, if you’re the perfect age to get into 
bars. And in Pennsylvania, most of us are far from perfect.
So why do we pay $ 1,700 to prove that we can’t drink ?
An I.D. card can be used at the bookstore, art store, 
entropy, and food service to prove that a student’s credit is 
good. You could buy out the bookstore with one check and 
the art store with another check as long as you have a valid 
I.D. Now that's good news. In fact, the CMU I.D. is becom­
ing as recognized around this area as a Bank Americard or 
American Express card. I’m just waiting to see a commercial
on channel II that goes something like this...."You recognize
my face around campus, but not my name. That's why / 
always carry my CMU I.D. wherever / go. ” Then the person 
in the commercial holds up his CMU I.D., and his name is 
magically printed on it and the card is simultaneously val­
idated on the back. / don’t recognize his face, and the pic­
ture on his /. D. could be his mother for all / know, but that 
doesn’t matter. The proof is, you can spend money if you 
have an I.D.
With a CMU I.D. it’s easy to get a library card at Hunt 
library. And as soon as you get the library card, the know­
ledge of the world is yours. Or could possibly be yours.
/ asked the librarian if there is a limit to the number of books 
that can be withdrawn on one library card. She said that 
unreserved books are loaned without limit. So, it would be 
possible to remove every single unreserved book from the 
library. THOUSANDS OF THEM, with just one library 
card. You could fill your room with books, and still have 
truck loads more. And after the two week loan period is up, 
you could renew every one of the books, and there would 
be nothing the librarian could do about it. All it would 
take is a valid library card, and the patience to wait for them 
all to be checked out.
An I.D. card can get you inside Morewood Gardens late at 
night. It can get you checkers, chess sets, pool cues, ping- 
pong balls, bus passes, frisbees, and the keys to various rooms 
in Ski bo You can get tickets to certain events for free. 
And an I.D. entitles you to a 5% discount at all CMU stores. 
And boy, by showing your I.D. at the travel office, you can 
book a student rate home for the holidays. You can get 
into the gym, into the pool, into football games and basket­
ball games. / could go on and on except that I’m really 
running out of things to say.
Anyway, although that little pink card is pretty expensive, 
it can do a lot for you if you put your mind to it. It can 
prove you go to CMU to anyone who asks for such proof 
(high school chums, your psychiatrist, the abortion clinic...) 
It can prove you are you to anyone who doubts you are you 
on Halloween or weekends. It can always be placed in your 
photo album after graduation. Just label it, "color shot 
of my head, freshman year."
However, even though it can do all these things for you, 
can a CMU I.D. get you a date on a Saturday night? Unless 
you feel like flashing it at some high school sophomores,
/ doubt it. -Jeffrey Zaslow
Folio Editor
OXAYŸiili.' 5WEM THE I.D-///
Letters
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
Compliment
Editor:
I wish to compliment Acting 
Co-Editor-in-Chief Sherry Siegel 
for the fine editorial in last week’s 
paper. It was the best editorial I 
have read since I came in Septem­
ber, 1974. In the past, editorials 
have been written with unneces­
sary sarcasm and have tended to 
make fun of a wide variety of 
University officials, while at the 
same time neglecting to present 
the University’s point of view. 
Last week’s editorial presented 
both sides of the issue concerning 
student-Administration conflicts 
in a manner to be expected of a 
responsible Editor. It gives sug­
gestions and alternatives to dis­
satisfied students without present­
ing a play with the Administration
as villains. I hope that this type 
of work by the Co-Editor is an 
indication of the type of campus 
newspaper we can look forward to 
reading each week.
Had the letter titled “Bill 
Dillon Shares Prize” been written 
as an editorial, it would have been 
the type of editorial I have not 
enjoyed reading in the past. This 
letter written by a Scobell resi­
dent does nothing but piss off Mr. 
Dillon. It’s one thing to publicly 
display one’s dissatisfaction with 
the work of a University official 
by making a list of complaints and 
suggesting ways to settle differ­
ences. It’s another thing to make 
a fool out of someone and expect 
any results to be obtained.
I urge everyone who did not 
read last week’s editorial to do so. 
It does not mention every gripe 
on this campus, but it does indi­
cate the kind of attitude one 
should take and how to proceed 
when filled with dissatisfaction.
As a final note, I wish to cor­
rect a statement in the editorial. 
It is not true that “not one stu-
dent attended President Cyert’s 
speech on the state of the Univ­
ersity,” because the person who 
lives in my single in Donner did.
Kevin L. Seto 
Tale of Terror
Editor:
Last week a group of approx­
imately 254 students was held 
hostage. I know, I was one of 
them. And I might ¿3d, it was a 
grueling experience. I had many 
more important things to do than 
sit in a chair and twiddle my 
thumbs.
During the ordeal we were in­
structed to sit quietly and fill out 
a piece of paper. You could not 
even say “God bless you” to the 
person next to you who sneezed, 
much less “gezunheit.” Upon 
completing the form, we were 
forced to remain in our seats, 
against our will, until such time as 
they saw fit to let us go. To in­
sure that we remained in the room
TARTAN
Editor-in-chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
Acting News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Sherry Siegel 
Brenda Reed 
Ellen Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Ram an an
Production Assistants: 
Photography Staff:
Gary Walzer, Naomi Kornhauser
Brian Batchelder, Mike Pergman, Skip Brazelton, John Fong, Greg Lebowitz, 
George Lecomte. Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyrighl 1977 by the Carmvii«! -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves tlx’ right to edit or 
withhoM turn; politic.itinn any copy it deems unlit l.»t publication. Fun<1«*d in part by the Student n intern­
ment of Carneqie -Mellon linivt*isity. Pitlsburnb, f’**i»iisylvama ( ditorial Offices: Skilx> M). <41?) 621-
2600 t*M. 6!id 1O 481. Business Offices: Skitk» L*?.'M1?»
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1977-TARTAN-Page 7
more Letters
cossacks were posted at both 
doorways. They did this to pre­
vent any leakage of information 
from the room. They even at­
tempted to prevent information 
from passing from one student to. 
another by sitting us every other 
seat. After about 30 minutes, we 
realized what we were in for. We 
plotted a plan where a diversion 
would be created so that one of us 
could escape and find help. Our 
plan went into action as a group 
of students began talking. Im­
mediately guards rushed to the 
scene to regain silence, and as 
they left their posts, our swiftest 
runner bolted out the door. One 
of the guards chased him, but to 
no avail.
After 50 minutes, the cossacks 
released their bored hostages; after 
their demands had been met. This 
experience happened during an 
economics test. And if I might 
add, I haven’t had an experience 
like this since junior high school.
It’s not my fault that the profes­
sor didn’t make up different tests 
to prevent cheating. But why 
should someone who’s finished a
20 minute test have to sit in a 
room for 50 minutes?
Is this a Russian Junior High 
School?
They couldn't sing either! 
Editor:
While I agree whole-heartedly 
with Joan Livitski’s appraisal of 
the insane comedy of Steve 
Martin, her opening paragraph is 
all wrong. To compare the very 
unfunny team of Sonny and Cher 
to the comically inspired Pat 
Paulsen, Dick Van Dyke, and Tom 
Smothers is criminal. Neither 
Sonny nor Cher has a gift for 
comedy as these great comedians 
do. They personify all that is bad 
in show business: taking a min­
imal talent in singing and turning 
it into a supposedly entertaining
television show. Any thinking 
adult would tell you that The 
Sonny and Cher Show was one of 
the hallmarks in bad televi'i '*¦* 
Their dull stand-up routines were 
the same every week : Cher would 
insult Sonny about his height, 
Cher would insult Sonny about 
his Italian background, Cher 
would irsult Sonny about his 
singing, and on and on. Only Don 
Rickies and Groucho Marx could 
handle insult humor with any 
amount of competence. Sonny
Pa. Drivers
Editor:
Let me preface this letter by 
saying that I usually shy away 
from stating generalizations as 
facts. And though I am not from 
Pennsylvania, I like what I have 
seen of the state so far and I am 
not a home-town chauvinist. Fin­
ally, let me say that I am not 
wont to exaggerate and blow
and Cher, like Tony Orlando and things up out of proportion. 
Dawn, Captain and Tenille,
Donny and Marie and many 
others took advantage of their 
successful record sales and 
thought they could make it big 
in television on just that. There 
is more to being a successful com­
edy team than having a hit record, 
as Pat Paulsen,Dick Van Dyke,
Tom Smothers and Steve Martin 
could tell you.
David Sheward
With these three facts about 
me in mind, then, let me tell you 
my gripe.
I have found that Pennsylvania 
drivers are atrocious. I have 
crossed Forbes at Morewood hun­
dreds of times, and am appalled at 
the lack of courtesy and common 
sense drivers have for pedestrians. 
As soon as they get a green light, 
they shoot across the intersection, 
rudely honking their horn, daring 
any pedestrian to challenge them
to a game of chicken.
On highways and main roads, I 
have noticed that a large number 
of drivers use the center line as a 
guide to drive their car. Fine; but 
the center line should be to the 
left of the driver, not underneath 
the middle of the car. Also, 
the people here are bad at taking 
turns. There is no reason to slow 
down as much as I have seen 
done, especially on minor curves.
I have often wondered why Pa. 
drivers are so bad. The only 
reason I have come up with is that 
road tests for licenses are given in 
a self-contained obstacle course, 
instead of on the street.
Other than this reason, I have 
come up with nothing. I think 
that drivers here have a tremen­
dous lack of self-confidence, 
which makes them even worse. 
I don't know what the solution is, 
but Pa. drivers sure need one.
Please sign me,
Pedestrians have the Right-of-Way
ANNOUNCEMENTS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
Carnegie-Mellon is one of a number of
colleges throughout the nation which 
participates in a cooperative arrangement 
with the American University in Washing­
ton, DC. Well qualified students are selec­
ted by each of the participating colleges 
to spend a semester in Washington for a 
study of American government in action. 
The study is carried out through a seminar, 
an individual research project, and an 
internship in government or with a govern­
ment - related organization. These major 
curriculum features provide a realistic 
picture of the process of government far 
richer than can be gained solely in an 
academic environment. In addition to the 
program in government, there are similar 
programs in urban affairs, foreign policy 
and economic policy.
The deadline for application for the 
spring 1978 semester is October 18. For 
further information contact Professor 
Eugene Levy, History Department, BH 240
The Tech House--A Catholic House--will
sponsor an Octoberfest Party Saturday, 
October 8, at 8:30 pm at the Tech House 
(next to Donner Hall). Everyone is invited. 
Call 621-2911 for more information.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Bette Chambers, President of the American
Humanist Association, and Peter Stern, 
of the Christian Education Committee, 
will give two views of the subject, ."Holy 
Scopes - is evolution still an issue7' at 
University of Pitt's Schenley Hall Student 
Union Center, 12 noon on Tuesday, Oct­
ober 4. Mrs. Chambers wili also speak on 
Wednesday at Webster Hall Hotel at 8 pm 
on the theme, “Experiences in Adult 
Education - sexual equality, abortion, 
astrology, evolution, and ethics.'' Both 
events open to the general puBlic**
Confidential Services including pregnancy
and VD testing, all methods of contra­
ception and counseling are available 
throughout western Pennsylvania without 
restriction on age or ability to pay. For 
referral to a clinic near you, call the 
Family Planning Council of Western 
Pennsylvania toll free at (800)242-2532.
EXAMINATION DEADLINES: Mathe­
matics and Linguists: 1977 Professional
Qualification Test, first step in qualifying 
for a career with the National Security 
Agency-given once per year. Deadline 
is November 5 for the November 19, 1977 
exam. Professional and Administrative 
Career Examination (PACE): applications 
accepted November 1-3, 1977, for the 
January, 1978 exams and February 1-28, 
1978, for the April 1978 exams. Exam for 
Foreign Service Officer Careers: given
once per year. Deadline is October 21 
for the December 3,1977 exam. Addition­
al information available in the Office of 
Career Services and Placement, 19 Warner 
Hall.
Forbes Street Gallery Alumni Show
open until Oct. 9 and our second show 
beginning Oct. 11-23 is the craft and print- 
making show (opening Oct. II, 7-9:30pm). 
Also in the "Gallery Plus" is an exhibit 
by University Graphics. Hrs.: Tues. -
Sun. 12-4 pm, Tues., Wed., Thurs., 7-9pm. 
All are invited!
What: Lecture Series, "Focus: Women
on Women" When: Wednesday, October
5. Where: Kresge Theatre, Carlow College. 
Time: 8 pm. Guest Speaker: Phyllis
Chester, Psychologist and Author. 
Admission: $2.50. For -more information 
call the Carlow College Center for Con­
tinuing Education - 681-0660
The American Institute of Chemical
Engineers is hayirjg its second monthly 
meeting Monday, Oct. 17, at 8:00 p i in 
Phi Kappa Theta. Guest speakers will 
include interviews from job placement, 
discussing job irfterviewing and other 
aspects of finding employment. Anyone 
who failed to sign up at the last meeting 
. may still do so. Refreshments. Dues: 
]$4.00. A calendar of future, meetings 
¡¡vlR Be posted! Tn tfie CFiem E.' oTTice.’'
The TARTAN extends an invitation to all CMU administrators, faculty, and 
students to share their views with the rest of the campus on these editorial 
pages. Submissions of 500 to 2,000 words will be considered for publishing 
as a quest editorial. If you have any questions, please call the TARTAN 
at 578-2111. 2112, or -2113.
THE TARTAN IS 
HAVING A WILD PARTY
no refreshments 
no entertainment 
no dancing
But if you'd like to help 
us put the paper together, 
stop by, and we promise you 
work, experience, and possibly fun. 
See you there—Saturday, 
11AM to 5 PM.
THE 
FUTURE OF
WRCT
Everyone interested in the radio station is 
invited to attend a meeting on Thursday, 
Oct. 6 at 9:30 PM in Skibo, Rm. 11. 
Everyone interested in the radio station is
-ALL STAFF MEMBERS ARE EXPECTED TO ATTEND

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS¿.CLASSIFIED ADS
Scandinavian Seminar is now accepting
applications for its study abroad program 
in Denmark, Finland, Norway, or Sweden 
for the academic year 1978-79. This 
living-and-learning experience is designed 
for college students, graduates and other 
adults who want to become part of another 
culture while acquiring a second language.
An initial 3 weeks language course, 
followed by a family stay whenever pos­
sible, will give the student opportunity 
to practice the language on a daily basis 
and to share in the life of the community. 
For the major part of the year he is separ­
ated from his fellow American students, 
living and studying among Scandinavians 
at a "People's College" (residential school 
for continuing adult education) or some 
other specialized institution.
All Seminar students participate in the 
Introductory, Midyear and Final Sessions, 
where matters related to their studies, 
experiences and individual progress are 
reviewed and discussed. The focus of 
the Scandinavian Seminar program is an 
Independent Study Project in the student's 
own field of interest. An increasing num­
ber of American colleges and universities 
are giving full or partial credit for the 
Seminar year. *
The fee, covering tuition, room, board, 
one-way group transportation from New 
York, and all course-connected travels in 
Scandinavia is $3,800. A limited number 
of scholarship loans are available.
For further information please write to: 
SCANDINAVIAN SEMINAR 
100 East 85th Street
New York, NY 10028
THE FUTURE OF WRCT will be the
topic of discussion at a meeting on Thurs­
day, Oct. 6 at 9:30 p.m. in Skibo Rm. 11. 
Anyone interested in the radio station is 
invited to attend this meeting. All staff 
members are expected to attend.
Flea Market at University of Pittsburgh
Student Union Thursday and Friday, 
October 13 and 14, 10 am -6 pm. Crafts, 
collectibles, clothing, food, plants for sale 
to benefit Pitt/Oakland YMCA's com­
munity service program. To reserve dis-1 
play space call 624-59I2.
Chemical Engineer's Student. Advisory
Council will hold its first meeting Tuesday, 
Oct. 4 at 9:30 am in the Chem E. con­
ference room. All interested persons 
are welcome. Bring any questions, com- 
plaints or comments. A permanent 
schedule will be posted.
"No, You're Not Trapped", a free
Christian Science lecture, will be given 
Tuesday noon, October 11, at the down­
town YWCA, 4th and Wood St. The 
talk will be given by Edwin G. Leever, 
a Christian Science practitioner, (for­
merly a space program engineer).
clubs
The 1978 THISTLE will hold meetings
every Monday evening at 7:30 for photo­
graphers and at 8:00 for copy and layout» 
staff. Everyone is invited to attend and 
join.
Wanted !
people who can:
The Ultimate Frisbee Club is having a meet
with Rutgers and Antioch. The games are 
Saturday afternoon after the football game 
and Sunday morning at 11 on the IM Field. 
Come and watch the sprouting inter­
collegiate sport.
classified
Our Dearest Scarecrow, We Love You.
Happy Birthday! The Lion, Glenda, 
and the Wicked Witch.
Typing in my home. Call Collette
Oneil after 6 pm. 243-3029.
An Olivetti portable manual typewriter.
Like new. $25.00 Call ex. 8889
LOST: Navy-blue lightweight jacket,
with unmatching buttons. If found, please 
bring to Skibo Information Desk.
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458.
Honda 360, '74, 8,000 miles, perfect
cond. Best offer. 42I-9945.
Misses' Sample Sale Oct. 8th and 9th
from 10 am to 6 pm. Holliday House, 
Monroeville, PA. Winter Holiday Line, 
Sizes 8, 9, and 10. Cash only.
Earn $7.50 for approximately 3 hrs. of
your time. Be a subject for a Psychology 
experiment! Subjects must be able to read 
and talk. For further information call 
578-2790 and ask for Anne. If she's not' 
there, leave your name and phone number 
for her, and whe'll get back to ydu.
J. and K.: I've always wanted to be
a sandwich, cookie! Peggy
Good-looking young man, 28, Haverford
graduate, good sense of humor, 
bright, and recently relocated to Pitts­
burgh, interested in meeting a very 
attractive, sweei, intelligent, vivacious 
young lady 21-28. Send photograph, 
name, address, phone number and a 
brief self-descriptive note to Mark, P.O. 
Box I804, Pgh., PA I52I9. All sincere 
replies answered.
RESEARCH
Send only two dollars (to cover postage) 
for your copy of our latest mail-order 
catalog of over 7,000 research papers.
• Quality Unsurpassed
• Fast, Dependable Service
• Speeches. Reports, etc.
All Materials Sold For Research Assitance Only
RESEARCH UNLIMITED, INC.
ctobe Sylvan Street 
Rutherford, New Jersey 07070 
201-939-1300
Still Room on the Ground Floor for
Computer Careers at Amdahl
Computer professionals are aware that 
today’s most advanced large-system 
technology was developed by a company 
that, not too long ago, was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975— 
when Amdahl delivered its first multi- 
million-dollar 470V/6 system follow­
ing a 5-year, $50,000,000 effort—that 
the company first attracted wide­
spread industry attention. Now, Amdahl 
is the most talked about company in 
the industry: a compact group of highly 
talented high technologists producing 
the world’s highest performing general 
purpose computers, the V/5, V/6 and 
V/7. Over a quarter billion dollars 
worth of Amdahl systems is new 
working worldwide in every industry 
sector using large-scale computers.
The original design team is still vir­
tually intact and working on future 
systems. Although we are growing at
an extremely rapid pace, we are com­
mitted to retaining the same creative 
environment that yielded the V/5, V/6 
and V/7. We are still small by com­
puter industry comparisons. We are 
still friendly. We still enjoy attacking 
tasks because we think it’s fun. And 
we still reward personal efforts with 
personal recognition.
We think Amdahl is a great place 
to work. There’s still room on tne 
ground floor for you if you are about 
to receive a BS or advanced degree 
in electrical engineering or computer 
sciences, and consider yourself a cut 
above your classmates in competence, 
enthusiasm and potential.
Amdahl Corporation, 1250 East 
Arques Avenue. Sunnyvale. California 
94086. We are. of course, an equal 
opportunity employer.
We a re coni i ng to ca m pus to fi II 
positions iti hardware, fi mi­
trare and hard ira re-related saff­
ica re. We are specificali// 
interrieiring far finti irare loffie 
and finnica re designerà and
lia rdica re-related, softicare 
diagnostic engineers, design 
automation programmers, and 
control programmers for our 
in in i-hasea console.
0N-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Thursday, October 20
If you can spend some time, ev en a tew hours, w ith someone who needs 
a hand, not a handout, call your local Voluntary Action Center.
Or write to: “Volunteer. Washington, DC. 20013 need you.
The National Center fix Voluntary Actionamdahl

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—TARTAN—October 4, 1977
( Nick Calder is the pen name of a Carnegie Mellon graduate student, and this is a true story of his 
adventures in the summer of 197b)
In Search of
Buckskin Bill: Backpacking into
Idaho's River of No Return
by Nick Calder
"You're going to drive 2000 miles, hike for 
days in the middle of nowhere, all to visit a her­
mit?" asked the woman, suddenly bewildered and 
perhaps concerned for my sanity. We were hav­
ing dinner when she casually asked what I was 
going to do over the summer vacation. "Hike in 
to see Buckskin Bill, last of the mountain men," 
I replied confidently. A rougish smile took the 
edge off the serious tone. It was clearly a re­
sponse she did not hear every day. I explained 
that Buckskin was an actual "mountain man," 
someone who survives a solitarv existence in the 
mountains through hunting, fishing and subsis­
tence farming. After earning a master's degree in 
engineering 45 years ago, Buckskin packed a few 
belongings on his back, an ax, a rifle and some 
food, and walked deep into the Salmon River 
Breaks of central Idaho—one of the most remote 
and primitive areas of the lower 48 states. He has 
been there ever since, except during World War II. 
There are no deferments for mountain men, even 
prospective American legends.
There are probably other mountain men one 
could visit, but Buckskin Bill is widely known 
as a highly intelligent, articulate and creative 
individual. How many could there be with an 
extensive knowledge of Dostoevsky? The lure 
of the Salmon River was also there. Lewis and 
Clark viewed the Salmon, and named it the 
"River of No Return" and decided to turn back
TARTAN FOLIO
OCTOBER 4, 1977/ SPECIAL ISSUE 
IN SEARCH OF BUCKSKIN BILL
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW
ART DIRECTOR ANDREW EPSTEIN
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH
COVER DESIGN BY SCOTTY POLLACK
CROSSING A SNOW PACK ON MT. REAGEN
and seek passage to the north. While the river was 
too treacherous for William and Meriwether's 
canoes, it should be possible to backpack in, a 
possibility confirmed, at least in theory, by the 
Geological Survey maps in the library, as far as 
they went. There would be be a few miles of 
walking over terrain for which no good maps 
exist. Idaho is like that.
The true drive for going, however, was intellec­
tual in nature. I had been engaged for six years 
in an intensive technological education. A vaca­
tion, both from the flatlands and the machines 
of the technocracy, would be worthwhile. The 
point where Five Mile Creek meets the Salmon 
River, known as Five Mile Bar, the location of 
Buckskin's cabin, seemed as far intellectually as 
one could get from the Digital Computer Labora­
tory. There was also the impression left by Ber­
trand Russell's confession in his autobiography, 
that what is now called a scientific world view is 
insufficient for human psychic needs, and yet at 
the same time it is the only way we can know the 
external world—a curious dilemma. More recent 
writers have addressed this problem, notably Ros- 
zak, Pirsig, Florman, Reich and Mowshowitz, all 
with only partial success. The Buckskin trip 
provided a simple alternative to these other 
approaches. Rational decision-making would be 
required to get to Five Mile Creek while the wil­
derness on the way would engender the romantic 
vision of freedom, self-reliance and a communion 
with the outdoors celebrated by John Muir and 
Henry David Thoreau. An interesting timesharing 
of intellective and non-cerebral capacities. It 
would be quite a trip; physically, intellectually 
and emotionally.
In a literal sense, of course. Buckskin was a 
hermit, as the lady perceived through my roman­
tic, perhaps euphemistic, description of him as a 
"mountain man." But when seen as a living 
embodiment of the I8th century Jeffersonian 
vision, he becomes more than a hermit. Buckskin 
had come*to symbolize, at least for me personal­
ly, the mythos of the wilderness. He is even 
known to have complained about the lack of rigor 
with which his intellectual ancestor, Henry 
David Thoreau, pursued the wilderness vision: 
"Thoreau had a good mind for picking up the 
subtle changes in things," (Buckskin) conceded, 
"but he lived at Walden only two years. He 
didn't have time to really learn his job. A guy like 
Emerson or Thoreau never did come to grips 
with reality. He led too sheltered a life. If he 
had had a cabin surrounded by grizzlies and 
mountain lions and rabid coyotes and dance 
hall girls, that would have made a man of him."
Indeed, it is a long way from Walden Pond to 
Five Mile Creek. Buckskin hand crafted his own 
C9okware (after mining and smelting the copper 
himself), constructed many rifles from scratch 
(including the tools used to make the rifles) 
and of course wears handmade buckskin clothes. 
He makes his own bullets but is embarrassed for
buying gunpowder rather than mining and proces­
sing the constituent carbon, saltpeter and sulfer.
I doubt if Thoreau had neighbors like Three-fin­
gered Smith, who earned the name by chopping 
off two fingers with an ax after being bit there 
by a rattlesnake, an effective though drastic cure. 
Later Smith's wife would run off with a seaman 
from Frisco and his horses would get stolen by 
marauding Indians.
It is getting late and we are somewhere be­
tween North Platte and Ogallala on Interstate 
80. There are plenty of campsites. Western Ne­
braska is the playground of the Army Corps of 
Engineers. Near every dam they install a few 
campsites. Stu, Annette and I pitch the tent and 
bed down for the night. In total, I talked nine 
friends into coming along. The other cars are 
somewhere along the road. We plan to rendez­
vous near Stanley, Idaho in a few days. All are a 
little wary of the Buckskin hike, but that will 
have to wait awhile anyway. It will take a good 
week of hiking in the Sawtooths to get in shape.
By the end of the next day we have reached 
the sagebrush, potato fields and lava flows of 
Southern Jdaho. We decide to rest for a day and 
take advantage of the clear canyon lakes by day 
and the rough-and-ready bars by night. We are 
now within two hundred miles of Stanley, Idaho 
and our rendezvous with the others.
The next day we meet the rest of the group who 
complain that we are late but seem satisfied with 
our boozing and skinny-dipping *in Yahootee 
Lake excuse. Camp is set up at the western end 
of Redfish Lake, a large (five mile long) lake 
nestled in the lower elevations of these mountains. 
With ten people pitching in, the tents are erected
and a spaghetti dinner is prepared in 
record time. I have always been amazed at the 
high degree of fellowship this environment pro­
duces. One would think that people who are bit 
by bugs, fall off logs into ice-cold creeks, are 
immobilized by blisters, have various animals 
raid their food supply and burn themselves with 
cast-iron cookware would become irritable. 
Instead, it seems to have the opposite effect. Tol­erance actually increases.
During the next week everyone seems to be 
having a good time, although the reality of 
snow-capped Mount Heyburn rising directly in 
back of camp seems to intimidate and restrain a 
few people. Stu and I have been doing some in­
tensive backpacking to get in shape for the 
Buckskin hike. We have probably walked about 
a hundred miles so far, but rather than describe 
the physical environment in detail, this narrative
will continue with cultural observations. After Muir and Ihoreau, there is little one can add to the physical realm.
To sit around a campfire with a glass of wine, 
overlooking a mountain lake, after having walked 
thirty miles that day in mountainous terrain, is 
to experience a peaceful, easy relaxation not easy 
to describe. The muscles may be sore, but they

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1977-TARTAN—Page 11
are not noticeable unless you move. The stars 
are very bright. Discussion continues almost end­
lessly. Most of the world's problems are solved, 
at least in theory and on a verbal level, several 
times on a trip like this.
On Saturday night we decide to drive into the 
town of Stanley for the Stomp. This town of 
47 persons swells to over 500 on Saturday nights. 
Forest Service firefighters, ranchers, river rats. 
Basque sheepherders, cowboys and students all 
come to town for a weekly celebration. At its 
best, the Stanley Stomp consists of as many 
people as possible squeezed into a rough-and-
ready baTdancing to the music of a local band 
mostly to tunes like, "The Wabash Cannonball"' 
and its western equivalents. Because of the high 
density of people, sideways movement is scarcely 
possible, restricting dancing to vertical movement 
or "stomping." As people begin to stomp in 
. unison, the entire establishment shakes. At this 
point the more timid are afraid of the place 
literally falling down. At the peak of activity 
business is lousy since movement to the bar is 
impossible. By comparison, discotheques are dull and insipid.
We had been camped on Redfish Creek for a 
week, it was now time to move on. Only a 
week remained for the Buckskin hike, cutting it 
rather close. Stu and I were in good shape now 
for the hike—we would have to be, the map 
; showed a 6000 foot climb and descent between 
the end of the road and Buckskin. The others 
chose to visit Yejlowstone and other points of 
interest rather than take their chances with an old Idaho recluse.
Stu and I pack , the car and prepare-to drive 
north into the Salmon River Country. It would 
take a whole day to get to Warren, Idaho, a most­
ly ghost town, and where the trail leaves for the 
Salmon River. Just after sundown we come 
around the last bend. The town is visible about a } mile down the road. The road is very rough. To 
the right is an entire valley of boulders and gravel, 
the tailings of an old dredge. The soil was washed away in the search for gold.
Suddenly I fail to dodge a large rock which hits 
hard on the bottom of the car. The oil pressure 
light comes on and I turn off the engine imme­
diately. We are in the middle of the road, but 
there is not another car in sight. Inspection 
under the car reveals some good news. While the 
oil filter has been destroyed by the rock, and the
> oil is gone, the oil pan, a far more difficult part 
to find or repair, is intact. Finally a jeep comes 
along and offers to tow us to town. While any gas 
station would have what we need, there aren't 
any gas stations in Warren. Inquiring at the local 
saloon, we are told McCall is the closest town that 
would have parts-about 100 miles of hitchhiking.
CRAMER LAKE
This combination saloon-general store is quite a 
I place, right out of a western movie. Above the 
pool table is a sign asking the patrons playing 
pool to please leave any firearms with the bar­
tender. At first, I think this is a joke, but realize 
this is for real when an empty-holstered man 
finishing a game retrieves his .357 Magnum pistol 
before leaving. We wonder how many men were 
gunned down over that table before the house 
rules were established?
We had crossed over an imaginary line some­
where between McCall and Warren, separating the
r4, 97Vlu
tourist traps from a lingering section of thè. old 
west. There were no gas stations, no hamburger 
stands, no electricity (unless you had your own 
batteries or generator) and no pavement. The 
town could be used for a western movie; a long 
dusty main street flanked by a ramshackel hotel 
and saloon. The old wooden sidewalks in varying 
states of repair made walking a musical and 
mildly hazardous experience. We walked to the 
other side of town to the Forest Service ranger 
station. It was already getting cold. I knew the 
temperature would drop to well below freezing 
by morning.Stu and I knocked on the bunkhouse door oc­
cupied by the firefighting crews stationed here. 
We ask if they know anywhere in the area we 
could get oil and a filter for the car, in case the 
bartender was wrong. No luck on that score, but 
since they don't have visitors often they want to 
"shoot the shit," as they call it, and offer us a 
beer. I comment on the jet-copter we saw coming 
in, noting they seem to be very well equipped. A 
rig like that costs several hundred dollars an hour 
to operate. The Forest Service finds helicopter 
delivery of firefighters to be cost-effective none­
theless. In this country, it could easily take sev­
eral days to hike into some of the fires, enough 
time for a ten acre fire to grow by several orders 
of magnitude. .
A message from McCall comes over the two- 
way radio (there is no telephone either). There 
has been a death at Mackay Bar, the county sher­
iff is headed up there by river tomorrow. Also, a 
VW van has been found abandoned on the road, 
doors open. Epilepsy medicine was found inside. 
The theory is that the driver stopped to take a 
leak, had an attack and is lost in the woods some­
where (Note: Neither Stu nor I is responsible for 
this theory). The ranger wants the helicopter to 
join the search effort tomorrow. After the mes­
sage the crew recounts all the murders and disap­
pearances in the area in the last several years. On 
that note we hit the sack. They offer us sleeping 
bag space on the floor.
I wake up at five since I learned at the saloon 
that people would be leaving for McCall about 
then. If you are standing in the middle of the 
road at five a.m. in Warren, Idaho (total, popula­
tion 29) you are likely to get a ride with the first 
car that comes along. Sure enough, in a few min­
utes a couple of guys in a pick-up truck drive by 
and give me a ride. I explain our automobile 
troubles. Apparently, they only work in town un­
til October. After that the town is snowed in 
every year. The only access is by ski-plane, which 
comes every two weeks.
By eight a.m. I have the oil and filter on my 
back and am hitching back. I stop in at the ranger 
station and ask if I could have a ride in one of 
Uncle Sam's rigs. Sorry, they say, none are head­
ed your way now.
Walking and hitching past the vacation homes 
in McCall, I start to whistle. First one, then two 
and finally four dogs are following me. I've stop­
ped whistling but nothing seems to get rid of the 
dogs. For at least an hour I walk, nobody stop­
ping to pick me up since they think I've got four 
dogs. Finally a Forest Service rig stops and the 
ranger says they have no room for the doqs. That
is fine with me. The ride lasts about half way to 
Warren. Ten or fifteen minutes later a truck car­
rying a bulldozer takes me the rest of the way to 
Warren. Ironically, the bulldozer is here to 
smooth the road that wrecked my car. Back in 
Warren by noon I meet Stu and we repair the car.
I have insurance that would have taken care of 
all this. They would have paid a tow truck to 
come up and fix the car, towing it to town if 
necessary. Somehow, however, to rely on an in­
surance company while on the way to see Buck­
skin Bill seems to be heresy. I'm glad I hitched.
We get up early the next morning and find the 
trail along the ridge to be in remarkably good 
shape. I was worried that it might be overgrown. 
The transition to using helicopters in fc*est fire 
fighting has resulted in the government aban­
doning many good hiking trails since they are no 
longer required for fire control purposes. Five or 
six miles in Stu stirs up a rattlesnake. I fail to see 
him crossing the trail until my right foot is de­
scending above the snake. I throw my weight at 
the last moment forward and to the left and roll 
several times, head-over-heels, down the hill. 
The alternative, to step on him right behind the 
head, is an approach I understand in theory but 
find difficult, on the spur of the moment, to put 
into practice. As we get closer to the South Fork 
of the Salmon the trail simply disappears, blazes 
and all. Round Mountain, where there should oe another trail, is easily identitied tit s reany 
round!); there is no need to take a compass bear­
ing. It's a long way down a very steep north 
facing slope to Raines Creek below and then up 
again. Near the bottom it is too steep to stand, so 
we just slide. I lose my Sierra Club cup on this 
hill. The steepness of the slope has been tearing 
away at my left ankle, which was weakened by 
a twist in the S vtooths. The remainder of the 
day was uneventi ' though exhausting. We arrive 
at Mackay Bar (i.e. a sand bar) that evening. It 
is sort of a fly-in dude ranch. From the layout r' 
the short runway, here at the bottom of the Sa. 
mon River Canyon, I can tell that if the custom­
ers keep their eyes open on final approach, which 
necessarily winds through a narrow canyon, they 
are certain to need a vacation afterwards. Only 
the best pilots can land in areas like this. And
they need plenty of specialized training. This is 
where the Post Office leaves Buckskin's mail. His 
cabin is five miles up the river.
A handyman for the ranch approaches us as we 
cross it. "If you're going up to see Buckskin, this 
is a bad time," he said. He explained that the 
young son (about 10, I gathered) of Buckskin's 
nephew was killed just the other day in an ATV 
(all-terrain vehicle) accident. The usually gregar­
ious mountain man (in Buckskin's case this is not 
a contradiction in terms) was withdrawn in 
mourning. He told us there were some good 
campsites across the river.
We were confused to say the least. According 
to our maps (admittedly out of date) we were at 
least 20 hard miles from the nearest road. Not so, 
we found upon crossing the river. The Forest 
Service had built one, at great difficulty, for the 
campsites which were used by rubber boat trips 
down the river. ATV? No motorized vehicles are
permitted in wilderness or primitive areas. A lot 
seems to have changed at Five Mile Bar in the last 
few years. After a good night's sleep we would 
investigate in the morning.
Upon getting up my ankle was extremely stiff 
from the punishment of the steep slope the day 
before. At first, I find I can barely walk, an ex­
perience that sends chills up your spine when you 
have just descended into a canyon deeper than 
the Grand Canyon. Fortunately, after several 
hundred yards it was almost normal. The hike up 
the main Salmon was relatively easy—nothing like 
the arduous journey the day before. We passed 
dozens of rubber boats headed down the Salmon, 
almost an expressway. I don't think that Lewis or 
Clark would care to see their "River of No Re­
turn" tamed by rubber boats headed down and 
jet boats headed up. But it is not completely 
tamed; the river claimed four lives this year alone.
As we cross Five Mile Creek, our goal, I am 
startled to see a home, similar to those found in 
well-to-do suburbs, here in the Idaho Primitive 
Area. We assume it belongs to Buckskin's nephew, 
the stockbroker. This was the same guy that or­
dered Buckskin a subscription to the Wall Street 
Journal a decade earlier, thinking it was just what
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—TARTAN—Octooer 4, 1977
IN SEARCH OF BUCKSKIN BILL
he needed. As we get closer, Buckskin's dwelling 
mixes remarkably well into the surroundings, in 
contrast to the stockbroker's house. Five Mile Bar 
is now an area of stark contrasts: Buckskin's pole 
fence, with irregular height poles designed to fool 
deer (into thinking the whole fence is as high as 
the tall poles) can be viewed simultaneously with 
the heliport, presumably installed by the stock­
broker. As Buckskin's donkeys lie on the beach, 
the ATV looms in the background. I decide to sit 
on the beach and wait to see if the roosters and 
dogs that are announcing Stu presence (Buck­
skin's doorbell!) elicit a response from ar./ occu­
pants. Stu is a little closer to the creek, I do not 
think he was ever convinced of Buckskin's hospit­
ality after reading about his hand-made 64 caliber 
rifle. After failing to see anyone for a long while 
we decide to leave. They may have gone into 
town with the sheriff or just don't want to see 
anyone, in view of the tragic death. It must be 
particularly hard on Buckskin. To live here for 
45 years without incident in the wilds and then 
have death brought to Five Mile Bar by techno­
logy in the form of the ATV, is as ironic as it isBUCKSKIN'S ORIGINAL CABIN
tragic. Why the Forest Service allowed that sub­
urban home to be built in an area where such con­
structions are normally forbidden is a mystery to 
me. The ATV is similarly out of place, legally and aesthetically.
Disillusionment was expected. Buckskinville could not possibly live up to the romantic de­
scription provided by the books and legends. It 
is regrettable that one of the very symbols of our 
remaining wilderness has been compromised in so 
short a time. Walking out, the road on the north 
side is clearly visible. Only a few years ago the 
area was a symbol of inaccessibility. Today we 
could have driven to within 100 yards of Buck­
skin's cabin, only the Salmon separating us. Per­
haps next year they will build a bridge, to correct 
this oversight. There were no Winnebagos in front 
of Buckskin's but that is not because the govern­
ment has not afforded the opportunity.
Our hike out was difficult; rain came on the 
second day headed toward the car. We tried to 
run the north Raines Creek ridge to avoid the 
steepness of the canyon, but ultimately were 
forced in and had to crawl up the other side. We 
also stumbled onto a small bear which fortunately 
climbed a tree. We were unarmed.
After a big dinner in Boise we headed home.
FOLIO IS AFTER STOOGES 
WHO KNOW HOW TO CARTOON
FOLIO IS LOOKING FOR ANY STUDENT INTERESTED IN DOING A COMIC STRIP OR 
CARTOON FOR THE OCTOBER 18TH ISSUE. THE ENTIRE FOLIO THAT WEEK WILL 
BE DEVOTED TO STUDENT CARTOONING. SO CALL RIGHT AWAY AND RESERVE A 
SPACE FOR YOUR CARTOON ! CALL ANDY EPSTEIN - 683-2877. OR LEAVE YOUR 
NAME AND NUMBER AT THE SKIBO INFO DESK .
SDC HOMECOMING 
FIREWORKS
FRIDAY OCTOBER 7
9:30 P.M.
I. M. FIELD
The Grand Finale to the Pep Rally

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
LA. LOOKS LIKE NASHVILLE
A movie review 
FILM: Welcome to L. A.
Directors: Robert Altman and 
Alan Randolph
by John Morris
A couple of years ago, filmmakei 
Robert Altman wrote, produced and 
directed a film, Nashville. It was acclaimed 
as a bright spot by an innovative talent in 
a season of dismal offerings. Besides, it 
was right before the bicentennial, and a 
day in the life of the midwest’s melting 
pot seemed like a good idea. It relied more 
on a progression of forceful scenes rather 
than a strong story line, and the im­
provised characterizations subtly and 
poignantly showed the dreams and 
fantasies of a cross section of that city’s 
people. With an element of tragedy, it 
seemed nonetheless to be about hope.
Apparently, Welcome to L.A. has some­
thing to do with responsibility. So -it 
seemed early on when the credits read: 
v Produced and directed by Robert Altman, 
then: Written and directed by Alan
Randolph. As it progressed, I wondered 
who was responsible for the dialogue, se­
quences, film quality, continuity and gen­
eral morale of the production. What re­
sponsibilities did the actors have to each 
other and their respective character con­
ceptions, which teams were they on, how 
Q were they picked, and who won? 
Most pertinent, who will be responsible to 
the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce if 
anyone takes this seriously?
' While Nashville projected enthusiasm, 
the only word that fits L.A. is tired. 
The idea to do Nashville over again in 
L.A. is tired. Most of the players seemed 
tired. Lauren Hutton, occasionally deft
with a chic cynicism, more often seemed 
to be waiting for a chance to go to the 
batnroom and have a cigarette. The other 
performers communicate the emotional in­
tensity of somnambulists who met once 
at a cocktail party and then came and read
their lines between tennis dates and hair 
appointments. Keith Carradine was burnt 
out, Denver Pyle drowsy, Sissy Spacek 
asleep, but Sally Kellerman did manage to 
get hold of some speed, some bad speed, 
the kind that gives you the twitches.
Holy Spirit Seminar
A gathering on receiving the 
Baptism of the Holy Spirit
October 10. 11, 12
NOON DAY TEACHING 12:00 NOON 
. EVENING SERVICES 7:30 PM 
Sponsored by Agape Fellowship
4401 5th Avenue
(Corner of 5th and) 
N. Bellefield Streets)
Tired as well a& tiresome were the acid- 
trip vibrations of the camera and the theme 
song “Welcome to L.A., City of one night 
stands...” sung by a young man imitating 
Phoebe Snow. • Most tiring however, was 
the film’s portrayal of that decadent, trans­
ient Hollywood society we’ve seen so often 
before and much more interestingly. Not 
that decadence is ever really fascinating in 
itself, but if the characters have something 
at stake it can serve richly as an atmo­
spheric backdrop. The only worry for 
most of the characters in this film seems to 
be whether they can go to bed with Keith
Carradine within two h?urs.
Uddiy enough, the film contained two
good performances, and this is where my 
theory about teams comes in. Increasing­
ly, Harvey Kirtel and Geraldine Chaplin 
seemed to be working a completely 
different movie. Kirtel believably 
transmits the kind of man drugged by suc­
cess when he give., himself a solitary cheer 
in an elevator after receiving a job pro­
motion. Geraldine Chapiin, as his wife 
whose mind has been laquered by roman­
ticism, is poignant as she recites Greta 
Garbo movies or methodically charts 
out her endless taxicab rides on a city map. 
Perhaps these two stood out merely 
because they seemed more than just Bar­
bie and Ken dolls. And of course, it’s 
always great to see Viveca Lindfors, even 
when she dressed as Phyllis Diller in 
black-face. Each time she appeared the 
screen was charged with suspense. She 
moved with the desperation of one who 
has been trapped by moguls and is waiting 
for the right moment to flee the sound- 
stage.
I must admit L.A. made me laugh, but 
I question the value of humor which has 
its roots in contempt, embarrassment and 
shock value. I also question the value of 
meticulously tracing the six lives of shallow 
superficial, and ultimately dull people 
in boring situations. The only thing that 
got them moving was the prospect of hav­
ing sex, which they did with regularity 
and enthusiasm. It’s unfortunate that the 
people of Los Angeles didn’t inspire Ro­
bert Altman more. I can’t believe it is a 
fair representation. I’m sure somewhere 
between Van Nuys and Torrance such 
people exist, but who cares?
Nonetheless, I predict moderate suc­
cess for Welcome to L.A. Because the 
photo quality is often grainy, the editing 
haphazard and the characters non- 
communicative and aimless, many will 
classify it as art.
•MOMDÄf tTUfiSQÄiare:
Amm
all far
c^i^e.I0a4y
Somothmq new is happ«*nmq at Emersons and it s dll good
NORTH HILLS—4611 McKmght Road—931 -6707 
MONROEVILLE—3500 William Penn Highway—824-1440

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—TARTAN—October 4, 19779
BEN SHAKTMAN OPENS THE PUBLIC
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre has 
opened its third season with Oliver Hailey’s 
Father’s Day. The PPT is a strong pro­
fessional theatre company set up to bring 
good regional theatre to the people of 
Pittsburgh. The theatre is located at the 
Northside’s Allegheny Theatre which is 
directly behind the Allegheny Mall. They 
offer an attractive reduction for students. 
A student with an ID can purchase any 
seat left in the house one half hour before 
any performance for the low price of 
$2.50. Rarely do they have to turn any 
student away without a seat.
Ben Shaktman, General Director and 
one of the founders of the Pittsburgh 
Public Theater, is an extraordinary c mi- 
bination of artist and businessman. He 
is ideally suited to develop and lead a first- 
class professional resident theater. His 
background, experience, and results of 
proven excellence are unique.
Mulit-talented director, actor and writer 
Michael Flanagan has been selected to 
direct PPT’s first production of the 
season. Remembered by Pittsburghers 
for the success he scored as the hilarious 
Sir Andrew Aguecheek in the Public’s 
inaugural season production of Twelfth 
Night, Mr. Flanagan’s career has spanned 
all phases of theater.
In making the announcement, the 
Public’s General Director Ben Shaktman 
said,“Mr Flanagan is a comedy master of 
all styles. His working relationship with 
Oliver Hailey on Father's Day, and his 
own sense of the play’s extraordinary 
comic power and its humanity, will lend 
strong directorial form to this very special 
American comedy-of-manners. It will 
be a joy—and lots of laughs—to hive 
Michael return to the Public.”
In accouncing the company the Public’s 
General Director Ben Shaktman said, 
“Father’s Day is a stylish work, very fun­
ny, very touching, sometimes very tough. 
The Public’s cast contains a sextet of this 
nation’s most accomplished performers. 
They’re a classically experienced and 
comically inventive ensemble - an ideal 
match for Oliver Hailey’s special style”.
In this comedy, set on the terrace of 
a Manhattan apartment, three divorced
Ben Shaktman, General Director, Pittsburgh
couples meet for a very unusual cele­
bration of Father’s Day. Elaine 
Kerr plays sharp-tongued, sharp-witted 
Louise, paired with David Snell, who plays 
her husband, Tom. Miss Kerr’s credits 
include leading roles at the New Orleans 
Repertory Theater, the Seattle Repertory 
Theatre, Buffalo’s Studio Arena and the 
Penn State Theater. On Broadway die 
appeared as Dee in No Place to be Some­
body and as Blanche Cooke in Night 
Watch and was Lois Nettleton’s standby 
for Blanche DuBois in Streetcar Named 
Desire.
David Snell returns to the Public after
Public Theatre.
a two-year absence, having played Tom 
in the Theater’s inaugural production of 
The Glass Menagerie. His rich stage ex­
perience includes a number of outstanding 
Off Broadway performances. He has 
appeared as L. Gallo in The Fantasticks, 
as Macheath in Beggars Opera and Alan 
in The Boys in the Band.
Sharon Laughlin as Marian and Robert 
Murch as Richard portray a couple with 
an amicable post-marital understanding. 
Miss Laughlin has been featured at the 
American Shakespeare Festival at 
Connecticut, Center Stage in Baltimore, 
Cincinnati Playhouse-in-the-Park, and Chi­
cago’s Goodman Theatre. On Broadway 
she played the leading role of Cathy in 
One By One and has worked Off Broadway 
at Joseph Papp’s Public Theater and 
Shakespeare in the Park.
Robert Murch appeared on Broadway 
in The Changing Room, Conduct Un- * 
becoming, Hostile Witness, and was stand­
by for the lead in Herzl. For regional 
theaters he has appeared in That Cham­
pionship Season at the Olney Theatre in 
Maryland and was standby for Ben Gazzara 
in Strindberg’s Dance of Death at the 
Massachusetts Repertory Company in 
Boston.
Completing the cast as a couple who 
grew up as childhood sweethearts in an 
orphanage are Monica Merryman as the 
bewildered Estelle and Ivar Brogger as 
Harold. Miss Merryman has performed 
the roles of Kathy and Mary in the Off 
Broadway production of Vanities, and has 
continued to standby for all three roles 
in the play. Prior New York engagements 
include two Manhattan Theatre Club 
productions.
Ivar Brogger spent four seasons with 
the Tyrone Guthrie Theater in Minnea­
polis. His work also includes The Glass 
Menagerie, playing the Gentleman Caller 
(with Carol Teitel as Amanda) at Theatre 
Plus in Toronto, and two plays for Van­
couver’s Playhouse Theater, playing Al­
exander Dumas in Camille and Leonce v j 
in Leonce and Lena.
Father’s Day by Oliver Hailey opens 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater 1977-78 
season previewing from September 23-27 
and running from September 28 through 
October 30. Also on this season’s 
schedule are You Never Can Tell by 
George Bernard Shaw (November 9 - 
December 11); the American major pro­
duction premier of Russian playwright 
Aleksei Arbuzov’s Once Upon a Time 
(December 21 - January 22); and Slow 
Dance on the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley, performed in repertory with 
Medal of Honor Rag by Tom Cole 
(February 1 - March 5). Subscription 
information is available by calling the 
Box Office at 323-1900.
A review of PPT’s opening production 
will appear next week.
PBT IS BACK ON THE BOARDS
A dance review 
TITLE: Romeo & Juliet 
Company: Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
by Knox Uguccioni
That perennial favorite, Romeo and 
Juliet, was on the boards again, this time 
in a restaging performed by the Pitts­
burgh Ballet Theatre. It was a welcome 
change from the stuffy, classical versions 
we so often see. This new production was 
surprisingly contemporary and was fairly 
concise in its portrayal of the tragedy.
Dancing; title roles were Jann
McCarthy Poole, both excel*
lent in Their sharp, precise
execution rtf' 1Jie steps combined with 
flawless movement was a joy to watch. 
Miss McCarthy was a delightful, diminu­
tive Juliet and through her dancing was 
able to express a full range of emotion, 
from youthful vitality to passion. Given 
her relatively short study of ballet. Miss 
McCarthy shows much maturity and 
technical proficiency.
Jo Ann McCarthy, as "Juliet" in ROMEO AND JULIET.
Romeo, Dennis Poole was both 
stiofeg «snd versatile. He was an excellent 
partner as well as a solo dancer; 
able to command the audience’s atten­
tion whenever the action demanded. 
Each pas de deux with Miss McCarthy 
was an extraordinary gymnastic event 
combined with The' grace of" classicof 
ballet. Their lifts were seemingly effort­
less and were executed without the least
hesitation or shakiness. Their timing \yas 
perfect and they were able to totally in­
tegrate their dancing with the mvsic 
instead of simply dancing to it.
The othef principals were very good and 
especially Peter Degnan as Tybalt. Mr. 
Degnan managed to develop his character 
quite" a bit in the space of a short first act. 
His dancing was electrifying, particularly 
in the fight scenes against Mercutio and
Romeo. The members of the ensemble 
were still not as good as they could have 
been. There was alot of stumbling and 
hesitant, shaky movement. The company 
has improved and their potential is ob­
vious, but perhaps more rehearsal of 
difficult movements' could have pre­
vented sloppiness.
The costumes were well designed and 
enhanced the renaissance character of the 
ballet. The costumes for the dancers were 
simple and flowing, in direct contrast to 
the heavy, elaborate costumes for the non­
dancers. Thus, the required images as to 
period and locale could be established with 
intricate detail and richness without hin­
dering the dancing. The settings, on the 
other hand, were dull and unimaginative. 
Their cryptic designs did not seem to have 
any significance and there was no attempt 
to capture an Italianate flavor.
On the whole, the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre has improved significantly this past 
year and with more experience can only 
get better. Their repertory is slowly being 
expanded, not with new works,, but with 
new productions of existing works. These 
restagings should be more suited to the 
strengths and weaknesses of the P.B.T. 
They are certainly worth seeing and de­
serve Pittsburgh's active support.

---------------------------------------------------

0EVENTS
THEATRE
Shakespeare's cruel comedy Measure for 
Measure will be presented by the South 
Campus of Cummunity College on October
13 - 15, curtain at 8 pm. Reserved seat 
tickets are $3, and reservations may be- 
made by contacting the Performing Arts 
Department at 469-1100, Ext. 390, be­
tween 10 - 2 pm weekdays.
Vincent Price stars as Oscar Wilde in the 
masterful new play, Diversions & Delights, 
to appear at Heinz Hall for three shows 
only on October 10-12 starting at 8 p.m. 
each night.
Tickets for this new hit are on sale at 
Heinz Hall. Group discounts are available 
by contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 
281-8185.
Same Time, Next Year, the romantic 
comedy hit starring Barbara Rush and 
Tom Troupe, will continue Heinz Hall’s 
Broadway Theater Series for eight per- 
f,’ formances on November 8-13.
Ranging from $10 to $4, tickets for 
this Broadway smash comedy are on sale 
at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Home’s, Kauf- 
mann's, and Sears. Discount information 
for students, senior citizens, and groups 
of 20 or more is available by contacting 
Ms. Nancy Sieber at 281-8185
On the occasion of the next APOWE 
(Association of Professional Office Women 
in Education) luncheon, Tuesday, October
11, at 12:00 noon in the Wherrett Room, 
two members of The Iron Clad Agreement, 
Mrs. Swoyer and Mr. Hutton, will present 
a program about the work of the group 
including excerpts and songs from several 
of their plays.
The Iron Clad Agreement is a floating 
professional repertory theatre company. 
Their experiment: to combine history,
technology and theatre into a unique 
form of expression, education and enter­
tainment.
MUSIC
Trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie and his quartet 
combine with the Duke Ellington Orches­
tra directed by Mercer Ellington for 
a double feature to open Heinz Hall’s new 
"Cavalcade of Great Bands” series on Oct­
ober 9.
Appearing as the second feature in Heinz 
Hall’s “Cavalcade of Great Bands” series 
will be the New Brubeck Quartet for one 
concert only Tuesday, November 1 at 8 pm.
Tickets to hear this special jazz en­
semble are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, -vaufmann’s, Sears, Gimbels, 
and Home's.
Andre Previn will conduct the Pitts­
burgh Symphony in concerts to be 
performed in Heinz Hall on Thurs­
day, October 6 at 8 p.m., Friday, 
October 7 at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday, 
October 9 at 2:30 p.m. Highlighting 
the program will be the U.S. premiere
of Lennox Berkeley’s Concerto for 
Flute and Orchestra in which the Or­
chestra's principat flutist Bernard Gold­
berg will be soloist.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, tickets are occasionally turned 
back to the box office for re-sale.
The Pham Duy Singers, for 30 years the 
leading folk singers of South Vietnam, 
will appear in concert at the University 
of Pittsburgh's Benedum Auditorium 
Sunday, October 16, 8 p.m. Admission 
is $2. For information and advance ticket 
sales call 624-5912.
For the 16th year the City of Pittsburgh 
is sponsoring a number of free Pittsburgh 
Symphony concerts for residents of the 
city. The first of these concerts will be 
presented in Heinz Hall at 8 p.m., Wed­
nesday, November 23, to be conducted 
by the Symphony's associate conductor 
Donald Johanos.
These concerts are the result of a 
grant from the city's Performing Arts 
Program. Each year the series consists 
of four concerts, the last of which is 
presented in early summer in Schenley 
Park.
On Wednesday, October 5, at 8 pm, the 
soaring violin of Jean - Luc Ponty fills 
the Syria Mosque. Tickets are available 
now at all National Records Marts for 
$4.50, 5.50, and 6.50.
For further information call 732-3111. 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmann's, Home's, Gimbels 
and Sears.
CINEMA
AB will be presenting Lina Wertmuller's 
Love and Anarchy on Thursday, October 
6th at 6, 8:15, and 10:30 pm. This film­
maker is a genius and is completely within 
her own territory as she directs this film 
about a man who sets out to kill Mussolini. 
Tickets are only .75 with an ID.
AB will be presenting Jack Lemmon m 
Save the Tiger. This is a wonderful film 
that measures the myths of the American 
dream against the realities of pursuing it. 
It is not to be missed. Jack Lemmon won 
his Oscar for this one. It will be shown 
in Doherty Hall on Friday, October 7 at 
6:30, 9, and 11:30 pm. Only $1 with ID.
SAC will present Smile, a rather shaooy 
but likeable film that documents beauty 
pagents. It will be screened on October 8 
in Doherty Hall at 6, 8:30 and 11 pm. 
This one is on the house.
The Carnegie Institute sponsors several 
films a week in their building down in 
Oakland. Admission is always one dollar. 
Call the film section of Carnegie Institute 
at 622-3212.
ART
World-famous sculptor George Segal will 
open this year’s Man and Ideas lecture 
series at the Carnegie Institute Music Hall 
Tuesday, October 4, 1977 at 8:30 p.m. 
with a slide presentation and discussion of 
his work.
There is now charge for admission to 
the presentation, but tickets may be picked 
up in advance at the public relations office 
of the Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue.
The Forbes Street Gallery has opened 
their Alumni Show. The showing can be 
viewed until October 9. The Gallery is 
open from 12 - 4 on Tuesday thru Sunday 
and from 7 - 9 on Tuesday, Wednesday 
and Thursday. The Gallery is located on 
the comer of Forbes and Margaret Mor­
rison.
MISC.
The International Poetry Forum will 
present Archibald MacLeish on Wed­
nesday, October 5, at 8:00 p.m. in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Tickets for this reading are $3.00 and 
are available to students and senior citizens 
for $2.00.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre's Prima ballerina, 
Dagmar Kessler, who is presently on 
maternity leave will begin to teach ballet 
classes under the auspices of the Pitts­
burgh Ballet Theatre. Ms. Kessler will 
teach two different programs including a 
Ladies' Beginning class.
WRCT
THE FUTURE OF WRCT will be the 
topic of discussion at a meeting on Thurs­
day, Oct. 6 at 9:30 p.m. in Skibo Rm. 11. 
Anyone interested in the radio station is 
invited to attend this meeting. All staff 
members are expected to attend.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 • 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

ab concerts presents
CHUCK MANGIONE
WITH THE
CHUCK MANGIONE QUARTET
HOMECOMING CONCERT '77
FRI.f OCT. 7, 8:00 P.M. 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL RESERVED SEATING
TICKETS
$4.00 W/COLLEGE I.D.
AT SKIBO INFO DESK
PITT TICKET OFFICE
6:00 GENERAL PUBLIC
AT FLO'S AND HEADS TOGETHER

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSTARTANS DEVASTATE YEOMEN!
By Dave Wills
Carnegie-Mellon piled up a school 
record 611 yards in total offense last 
Saturday a^ the Tartans buried the Ober- 
lin Yeomen, 55-6. Averaging 6.7 yards 
per rush on the ground, the Tartans were 
simply out of Oberlin‘s class, although 
Oberlin kept the score close for most 
of the first half. Oberlin was at a large 
disadvantage at the start, as they only 
dressed 26 players, several of which were 
forced to leave the game due to the phy­
sical pounding by the Tartans.
Oberlin went on offense first and 
promptly marched to CMU‘s 30 yard 
line before the defense stiffened. After 
Keith Knestaut and Greg Gailey broke
up pass plays, Knestaut stepped in front 
of a Gregg Heiden pass and returned
it 18 yards to the CMU 36 yard line.
Rick Brown then guided the Tartans
to the Oberlin 9 yard line, picking up 
much of the yardage himself on an ex­
cellent 35 yard option run. It was here 
that the Tartans were stopped in their 
bid to score, one of the very few times 
this happened Saturday. Oberlin managed 
to hold the ball 2 plays before Matt Wehrle 
intercepted a Heiden bomb at the 46 
and as he was being tackled, lateraled 
to Gus Sunseri, whose twisting return 
put the ball on Oberlin‘s 16 yard line. 
Unfortunately for CMU, the play was
Captain Rich Lackner sustained a lower back 
injury and was hospitalized over the weekend.
called back for clipping, and even more 
costly was the injury to free safety Keith 
Knestaut, who was lost indefinitely with 
3 broken ribs.
CMU then proceeded to put together 
a 52 yard scoring drive, marked by a
14 yard completion from Brown to Craig 
Hladik, as well as some fine power running 
from Bob Gasior. Gasior ran the ball six 
straight times before his 3 yard dive 
put CMU on the scoreboard. Again the 
Tartans utilized their “muddle huddle”
play as Hladik scored a 2 point conver­
sion making the score 8-0.
Oberlin promptly countered CMU‘s 
score with a 64 yard drive that was all 
Steve Miller. Miller picked up 43 yards 
on 3 runs and a screen pass before Hei­
den hit Rollie Schick on a 8 yard scoring 
pass. Pat Olivo put pressure on the PAT 
attempt causing a fumble, and the Yeomen 
had finished their scoring for the day.
With 7 :18 left in the first half, Sun­
seri returned an Oberlin punt to the 48 
yard line. Bob Kennedy, replacing Brown, 
showed why he is excellent at leading 
the veer, as he mixed keepers with pit­
ches to fullback Pete Rothermel, before 
Gasior covered the final 8 yards for his 
second touchdown of the day. Kostic 
made the PAT and the score was 15-6.
The Tartans got possession of the ball 
again, and with 10 seconds left in the 
half, Kennedy tossed a screen to Rick
Leaman, who reversed field and juked 
the final defender to the ground at the 
8 yard line enroute to a 55 yard touch­
down. Kostic‘s PAT made the score 
22-6 at the half.
Carnegie-Mellon broke the game open
• on their first offensive series of the sec­
ond half. Gary Bonn, making his first 
appearance since the California game, 
put on an exhibition of power and speed, 
first on a 17 yard inside veer, next on a
25 yard pitchout from Brown, with 
Hladik making a great block on Ober­
lin‘s left cornerback. Mike Kostic‘s kick 
made the score 29-6.
The Tech offensive line of John Bie- 
lich, Mark Uram, Bill Daly, Jay Meenan, 
and Don Kaminski were a big factor as 
they wore down the Oberlin line and 
continued opening huge holes. After 
another 17 yard run by Bonn, Brown 
hit Leaman on a 24 yard scoring pass, 
made possible by a good block by Tony 
Digora, and the rout was on.
The offense didn‘t let up as Don Stoebe 
returned a Yeoman punt 56 yards to the 
Oberlin 19. Gary Bonn scored his second 
touchdown on the next play, going 19 
yards to make the score 42-6.
As the fourth quarter began, CMU 
found itself on its own 19 yard line. 
One play later they were in Oberlin‘s 
end zone, thanks to a 81 yard run by 
Bob Kennedy. The PAT raised the score to
BOOTERS ARE INEPT CASE
By Franz Beckenbauer and Steve Birke
The CMU Tartans, once again plagued 
by defensive lapses and an inept offense, 
lost to highly touted Case Western Re­
serve on Fiday at Tech field. The Spar­
tans of Case Western bore more of a 
resemblance to an Algerian league team 
than one would expect of a Cleveland 
based school.
Case Western had players like Aziz 
Bouchekheckba, Ibrahim, Muhammid, 
and Idi Amin, for all anyone could figure 
out, here last Friday. CMU had oppo­
nents like Pat, Amy, and Colin, and yet 
after the first five minutes of play it 
seemed that the home team was playing 
like the favorite instead of the underdog.
Time and time again the Tech squad 
attacked the Spartan goal only to come 
away short by shooting wide or hitting 
a post. CMU continually rejected attacks 
on their own net by an obviously more 
talented Case squad.
It was with 10 minutes gone in the 
first half that CMU suffered one of its 
seemingly ever-present defensive lapses 
and Aziz of Case Western took the oppor­
tunity to beat goalie John Hawkins with 
a soft shot to the far corner.
Whereas a letdown might be expected 
following the first Case goal, none devel­
oped. The Tartan squad only played 
harder and continually beat Case to the 
ball setting up good attacks. The mid-
The Tartan defense converge on a loose ball at 
dropped a tough 1—0 decision to a team that they
field line of John Hunt, Dave Martineau 
and Craig Watanabe controlled much.of 
the flow of play and continually set 
up forwards Keith Hordatt, Colin Cle­
ment and Pat Crump with good scoring 
opportunities.
It was at the 30 minute mark of the 
first half that the usually solid defense
.
midfield during contest with Case. The Tech squad 
thoroughly outplayed.
Coach Klausing seems very smug, as well he should 
be, in light of the Tartan performance.
48-6.
By now CMU had its second and third 
teams playing, but they still couldn't 
hold the score down. After Bonn's 13 
yard run put the ball on Oberlin‘s 12 
yard line, quarterback Keith Bille hit 
Khahil Sharif in the endzone to close out 
the day‘s scoring at 55-6.
The Tartans return to PAC action 
this Saturday against Washington & Jeff­
erson. W & J was knocked from the 
unbeaten circle by Case-Westem, whom
the Tartans have already beaten, but 
still figure to challenge CMU down the 
line in the PAC. With the exception of 
Knestaut, the Tartans expect to be at 
full strength for this important game.
Runners Set For Saturday's Duel
bv M.A. m the 120 man field. Biiltlini’ the iby
Sloshing their way over Indiana 
University’s spongey course, the Carnegie- 
Mellon runners were only able to finish 
midway in the field of twelve teams 
in the Indiana Invitational this past 
Saturday. On a course that was nearly 
impassable in parts, the Tartans fell prey 
to its many obstacles and emerged bat­
tered beneath layers of mud.
Dario Donatelli and Steve Faloon 
defied the conditions and ran strong 
races to finish 14th and 15th out of
the 120 man field. Battling the mire 
amidst a crowded pack, the rest of the 
squad did well to merely complete the 
race. Several runners suffered injuries 
from trecherous terrain and pulled out 
of the contest.
The team will use this week to revive 
themselves in order to face Case-Western 
Saturday. For this meet against the long­
time adversary. CMU has altered their 
course slightly so that the runners start 
and finish on the track. Race time will 
be 1.30 PM.
CMU SOCCER
CMU vs. BETH AN 
DATE-FRI. 10-7 
TIME'- 3‘30pm
Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—TARTAN—October 4, 1977
HAPPINESS ABOUNDS ON FINE ARTS LAWN
by Lynn Ritter
In league play this week the CMU 
womens’ field hockey team won both 
its games. On Wednesday CMU defeated 
Chatham College 2-0. Both goals were 
scored by Ingrid Goedicke-showing 
excellent hustle as a beginner to the 
game. Friday afternoon it was CMU—3 
W&J—1 in an action packed game. CMU’s 
goals were scored by “M.J.” Smith, In­
grid Goedicke and captain Audrey 
Goldstein. In both games CMU clearly 
dominated the play with hustle and ag­
gressiveness. Kim Rouch played an ex­
cellent game at center halfback in the 
W&J game. In non-league action the 
field hockey team“faced-off” against the
ice hockey team (minus skates). Atter 
an hour and a half and many fouls, no 
one had scored. The field hockey 
team would like to thank the guys for 
being such good sports and playing 
(even if there is no such thing as a left- 
handed stick!). The hockey team has 
their last home game on Tuesday against 
Bethany at 5:00 pm. Bethany beat CMU 
in the season opener by the score of 
1—0, so it should be a good tight game 
to try and even up the records “between 
the two schools. Wednesday they face 
Chatham again, away at 5:00 pm. 
Remember--good game Tuesday at 5:00. 
Stop by!
Female Netters Sweep Opponents
by Bob Firm
Coach Peggy Russell’s girls’ tennis 
squad had a successful week as they 
defeated rivals Chatham and Carlow 
by identical 4—1 scores. The female 
netters stand at 2—1 for the season.
Denise Ryan and Marya Piasecki con­
tinued to look outstanding in singles 
competition as each ran her individual 
record to 3-0. Ryan, playing from the 
second singles spot, defeated Maria Mortel 
of Chatham 6—0, 6—2 and disposed 
of Carlow’s Vickie Yarosz 2-6, 6—2, 
6—1. Piasecki won in three sets against 
Chatham’s Joy Edwards 1-6 6-1, 7-5 
and took Carlow’s Lori Watts 6—1, 6—1.
The doubles teams needed only one 
match experience under their belts to 
really get into gear. The teams of Karen 
Wiederhorn-Alice Sexton and Joan An- 
drews-Diana Hulik won their matches
against both Chatham and Carlow. 
Wiederhorn and Sexton won 6—2, 6—3 
against Chatham and 6—2, 6-2 against 
Carlow. Andrews and Hulik, with her 
powerful serve, won an exciting three 
set,match against Chatham 6—2, 3—6, 
6—3 and swept Carlow in straight sets 
6-1,6-1.
Robin Klar was the only CMU loser, 
playing out of first singles. She lost to 
Chatham’s Susie Silverstein 6—2, 6—2 
and Carlow’s talented Sally Malave 6—1,
6—3. Ironically her return is what 
strengthened the Tartans. Coach Russell 
said, “With Robin playing first singles, 
we have more depth throughout the 
lineup.”
The Tartans hit the road courts for 
two matches this week. The girls play 
Robert Morris' tomorrow at 5:00 pm 
and travel to Bethany on Monday.
Chess Corner
by Joseph Bartnicki
White to play and mate in three moves.
A test of dexterity for the knight.
The knight must go from QR1 to 
KR1 one square at a time then directly 
back to QR2 etc. until KR8 is reached 
without landing on a pawn or a square 
controlled by a pawn. There is a 10 sec­
ond penalty for each mistake.
m *u
mtttm
il im
10-15 min - Respectable 
7 min - Good 
2 min - Grandmaster
ajEiu9ò-}I (e
(Z
HXU N (l
: J9Msuy
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P. 0. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
Action from the CMU—W & J contest. The Tartan women picked up two victories in conference play 
this week.
Cutout for a weekend
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you ... it’s time 
to escape. At National Car Rental you can reng an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. 
So make plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever 
pastures are greener. Make your reservation with 
National today.
We feature GM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
National Car Rental
•You pay for gas and return car to renting city. Rate available Friday noon to 
Monday noon. Non-discountable rate subject to change without notice.
COLLEGIATE
RESEARCH
PAPERS
RESEARCH
Assistance 
ALL SUBJECTS
Choose from our library of 7,000 topics. All 
papers have been prepared by our staff of 
professional writers to insure excellence. Send 
$1.00 (air mail postage) for the current edition 
of our mail order catalog.
We also provide original 
research - all fields. 
Thesis and dissertation 
assistance also available.
EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
P.O. Box 25916-E.
Los Angeles, Calif. 90025
Name __________________
Address _______________
State______________Zip _

---------------------------------------------------

October 4,1977-TART AN-Page 19
DUQUESNE 
WINNERS
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon’s men’s tennis team was 
defeated in their opening fall match by 
Duquesne 6—3. The loss snapped the 
Tartans’ three game win streak over the 
Dukes.
The match was decided in doubles 
competition as CMU and Duquesne were 
eyeball-to-eyeball after singles 3—3. The 
visiting Dukes then proceeded to sweep 
the doubles and roll to the victory.
Brian Wolf, Marc Silver, and Mike 
Straub all won their singles matches 
handily for Tech’s three points. Gary 
Kemeny, John Sze, and Greg Maskar- 
inec played some excellent tennis out 
of their top three singles slots, but un­
fortunately ran into stiff competition 
from Duquesne.
Kemeny-Silver, Wolf-Kirby, and Sze- 
Maskarinec were the doubles teams.
Coach Russell commented, “Duquesne 
is very improved. We haven’t practiced 
much at doubles because of our singles 
challenge matches and it hurt us today.”
Frank Bucci, Pitt's All-American candidate in his fourth season, had a big day against the Tartans- 
shutting down every attempt that got through his defense.
Call your father.
He’s the one you always call when you need money But when was the last time 
you called him just to say “Hi”? To tell him you really appreciate his help. To tell 
him to come and visit you. 
Call your father tonight...Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself, 
station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., you’ll be able to talk for ten minutes 
for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial-direct rates do not apply to person-to-person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number. 
Dial-direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available.
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
Bell of Pennsylvania
Booters Inept
of Tom Meagher, George Canepa and
Bob Sikora became entangled in a goal
area pile up with the result being the
c" final score by Case‘s Muhammid. Even
jj the eventual placing of Hawkins on the
I forward line could do little but add more cfrustration to those who attended the con­
test. Hawkins continually outmaneuvered 
the Spartan defense only to have his 
eventual pass or shot thwarted by what 
seemed fateful, if not very lucky defense. 
Pat Crump alone was set up in front of 
Case‘s goalie numerous times and had 
many opportunities with little results.
It seems that the Tartans, now 1-2, 
need to improve on an offense that has 
c scored but one goal this season. Much 
g work is being planned for this weeks 
I PAC conference game with last year‘s 
champion Bethany on Friday. The Bisons 
boast last year's league MVP and a re­
vamped offense which has them cited 
as one of the most powerful division 
III schools in the east.
Intramurals
JOT THIS DOWN
GOLF- Schedules are up on the I.M. 
bulletin board in the gymnasium.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL- schedules are 
up on the I.M. bulletin board. Games start 
the week of October 3.
CROSS COUNTRY- Meet is tenta 
tively scheduled for Thursday Oct. 13 at 
4*30 p.m. on Flagstaff Hill. There will be 
both team and individual competition and 
the event is post entry.
WATER POLO- Sign up for practice 
time over on the I.M. bulletin board.
CHESS- Check I.M. bulletin board for 
playing time.
SOCCER and VOLLEYBALL- Entries 
have been postponed and are now due on 
Oct. 18.
BOWLING- Entries due Tues. Oct. 4. 
Games are to bowled at Strand Lanes 
in Oakland (above the Strand Theatre) on 
Saturday at 10 a.m.
SQUASH and TABLE TENNIS- Entries 
due Tues. Oct. 4.
I.M. FOOTBALLSTANDINGS
TEAMWONLOST
Alpha Tau Omega20
Coaches All-Stars10
C-Map-A21
Pika - A11
Beta - A11
Sigma Alpha Epsilon02
Glofified Plumbers02
I.M. TENNIS STANDINGS
Borg Division
TEAMWONLOST
Sex Pistols30
Team X10 *
Triangles21
GSIA-Bucks11
Kappa Sigma01
Slugs01 4*
Faculty01
ZBT02
Connors Division
TEAMWONLOST
PKT10
DU10 *
PKA01
The Four Loves01
SAE0
Arpe Nets 
GSIA-Managers
o
Bye‘0

---------------------------------------------------

ANNUAL SDC 
HOMECOMING 
SEMI-FORMAL
Saturday, Oct. 8 
8:30 "Midnight 
Skibo Ballroom
the live band,
SILVER FOX
will perform
BUFFET DINNER
Ticket and CMU ID required 
Admission $1.50 without CMU ID 
No tickets required after 9:30
Tickets at Skibo Info Desk
