VOL. 42—No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948
Council Starts 
Investigation 
Of Football
V-
President Yince Prus 
And Five Councilmen 
Will Conduct Inquiry
In the midst of demonstration 
over the football situation, Student 
Council met last week and rec­
ognized the purpose of the dem­
onstrations, but urged that no 
further démonstrations be held 
No definite stand was taken by 
Council pending a complete inves­
tigation of the varsity football sit­
uation.
Discussion of a new voting sys­
tem for elections, a report from 
the A1 Minetti Memorial Commit­
tee, the Homecoming committee 
report, and budget approvals for 
the Varsity “C” Club, Cwens, and 
the Margaret Morrison Senate 
consumed the remainder of the 
meeting.
A committee consisting of pres 
ident Prus, and councilmen Shaef 
fer, Groomes, Hall, Sapper, Perl­
man, and Fockler was appointed 
to make a complete investigation 
of the football situation.
Arbon Lang, non-council mem 
ber, explained the Hare system of 
balloting in the school elections. 
His suggestion met with mixed re­
actions, and the subject of ballot­
ing will be decided today when 
Council will approve the bylaws 
for their new constitution.
One objective of the proposed 
system is to give a minority group 
its just representation on Coun 
cil. Thus no political machine will 
be able to completely dominate 
Council as has been the case at 
times in the past,.
Councilman Frank- Lee, chair­
man of the Minetti Memorial com­
mittee, presented three new sug­
gestion for memorials for A1 Mi­
netti. The original plans approv­
ed by Council last semester had to 
be scrapped because of insufficient 
funds for the project.
Suggestions presented were the 
purchase of a public address sys­
tem for the gymnasium, erection 
[Continued on page 8]
Vespers
At the Sunday evening ves­
per services in Carnegie Union 
on November 7 at 7:00 p. m., 
the subject of the evening will 
be “Eastern Orthodoxy.” The 
speaker will be the Reverend 
Michael Kovoch, an Eastern 
Orthodox priest and rector of 
the Church of the Holy Ghost. 
An informal discussion period 
and a refreshment hour will 
follow his talk.
Dr. Doherty 
Meets Writers
President Tells Press, 
“First Things First’
“Disappointed but not discour­
aged over Carnegie’s recent foot­
ball fortunes” was the 
tude at President 
eon for local sports writers and 
announcers at the University club 
last Thursday afternoon. The com­
ment was made by the president 
himself when asked how he felt 
about Carnegie’s long football los­
ing streak.
The president’s attitude on foot­
ball was explained when he said 
“first things first and second things 
second. Plan your education pro­
gram first and then fit in your ex­
tra-curricular activities.”
When someone raised the query 
as to whether Carnegie is tough­
er now than' it was when all- 
American Howie Harpster (1928) 
and Lloyd Yoder (1938) were 
combining caleulum with football, 
Dr. Doherty pointed out that the 
educational concepts of .today are 
veering away from those of ten 
years ago. “The steadily rising 
trend to educate engineers in hu- 
manistics as well as science has 
affected the time program of to­
day’s student,” said Doherty. This 
prompted one Pittsburgh sports 
writer to suggest that “perhaps 
we were trying to attain intellect 
ual snobbery.”
The age-old question of “what’s 
the matter with the Steffen Schol­
arship Fund” was kicked up and 
down the table. The president em­
phasized the fact that he was one 
[Continued on page 6]
President Explains Policies, 
Actions To SCC Meeting
Scottie Passes Critical Review; 
Staff Reorganization Planned
John Fockler, Ethel Friedman, Tom Hall “purify” Scottie as
editor Barry Evans looks on.
Scottie satisfactorily passed the 
tests imposed on it by the three 
member committee appointed by 
Student Council to review ma­
terial planned for publication in 
'the forthcoming issue.
Although the committee gave 
approval,- Evans reported that 
“lack of student interest in writ­ing for the publication” remains
one of the major problems of the 
magazine.
Evans announced that the staff 
will attempt a complete reorgan­
ization of the content and layout 
of the publication. Beginning with 
the December issue, it is hoped to 
make the Scottie a desirable out­
let for the humorous writing of talented Carnegie students,
An Open Letter to The Student Body
President Doherty States 
School’s Athletic Policy
The events of the past week have prompted me to write this 
letter to you. I hope that I can help to clear the air—remove 
whatever misunderstandings exist—and thus provide a basis for 
all of us to work together toward an improved situation in intercol­
legiate athletics.
Recently you have heard me state many times that the ath­
letic policy will not be changed. Realizing that a good number 
of you are freshmen, I feel that perhaps you do not know ex­
actly just what this policy is; others of you may have been mis­
informed. For that reason, I would like to explain it.
Our athletic policy is simple and short. Basically, it is this: those 
of us who are guiding the activities of Carnegie consider it, before all 
else, an educational institution. In this light, then, it is logical that 
the prime efforts of our administration and faculty should be toward 
operating and developing CIT as such. I, and those officers of the 
administration and faculty working with me, desire to have the very 
best teams representing CIT on the athletic fields that this policy 
will permit; however, we must and will continue, as in the past, to 
place the demands of our educational program above all else.
That is point number one of the athletic policy: education 
comes first. ?
The second point of our policy 
concerns aid to athletes. No Car­
negie Institute of Technology 
funds (including those allocated 
to the athletic department) can 
be used to pay or in any way 
support a member of a team on 
account of his participation in 
athletic programs.
However, we are not opposed 
to—indeed we encourage—aid by 
an alumnus or friend to a student 
who is a good student and also a 
good athlete, provided such aid 
is given in accordance with the 
Steffen Scholarship Fund plan. In 
fact, these scholarships were set 
up to make it easy for alumni to 
do just that.
In this set-up alumni are asked 
to donate to the Steffen fund for 
the sole purpose of helping to pay 
the way of boys who are good 
athletes and can meet the stand­
ard entrance requirements and 
classroom demands of CIT. Young 
men are recommended for these 
scholarships by the Steffen fund 
committee, and are approved by 
the school’s scholarship committee.
That is a second point of the 
athletic policy: we welcome aid 
from alumni and have provided 
the machinery to enable alumni to 
help pay the way of scholar-ath- 
letes, but no Carnegie funds may 
be used to support a member of 
any team because of his partici­
pation in athletics.
The Board of Trustees and the 
president are responsible for the 
athletic as well as the educational 
activities of our school, and the
administrative groups which car«
ry out our athletic policy include 
the department of athletics and 
the Athletic Board. This latter 
consists of students, faculty, alum 
ni and trustees and guides the 
policy of the department of ath 
letics (including the scheduling of 
games).
That is our policy and the ad­
ministrative set-up for executing 
it.
Now, let me bring up the point 
which I know interests you most. 
What can we do in intercollegiate 
athletics under this policy? Per­
haps you have read that I recent 
ly told Pittsburgh sportswriters 
and commentators that I was dis­
appointed but not discouraged 
over our intercollegiate athletics 
situation. I mean that. I recognize 
the improvement in the team this 
year over last, and last year over 
the previous year, when we start­
ed from scatch after the war.
Anyone who doesn’t is overlook­
ing an important fact in the situa 
tion. That trend will continue pro­
vided alumni interest in support­
ing the Steffen Fund continues to 
grow.
Let me say that the school will 
do everything it possibly can 
within budgetary limits, outside 
of hindering the educational pro­
gram, to give its teams the equip­
ment and encouragement they 
need to meet our opponents on 
equal terms.
In closing, may I say that I un­
derstand your desire for better 
teams. I hope you will under­
stand the desires of those of us 
of the administration and faculty [Contt?nied on page d]
Wants ‘Best 
Possible’ Team
One of the most purposeful Stu­
dent Conference committee groups 
in recent years met with Presi­
dent Doherty on Wednesdaly, Oc­
tober 27 with its primary objec­
tive that of bettering the Skibo’s 
football fortunes, now at an all 
time low.
Dr. Doherty opened the football 
discussion with an answer to the 
question of Robert Fulton as to 
just how good a team he wanted 
CIT to have by describing it as 
“the best possible inside the 
framework of our educational pol­
icy.”
[Ed. note. This policy is describ­
ed in the accompanying open let­
ter to the students from the pres­
ident.]
After an explanation of the pol­
icy, the president went on to an­
swer the complaints that were 
made in the Tartan of October 20 
and in the meeting in his office on 
October 25.
Skibo Closing
Concerning the seven o’clock 
closing of Skibo which caused the 
team to quit daily practice earlier 
than it wished, Dr. Doherty said 
that “the seven o’clock closing was 
requested by the athletic depart­
ment. Any time they wished an 
extension they could have had it.”
After explaining that there was 
no system of “cuts” from classes, 
the president said that there was 
no intention of penalizing the 
players who missed classes for 
scheduled athletic events of any 
kind, and that the instances which 
occurred in connection with the 
St. Louis game were an unfortun­
ate deviation from declared pol­
icy.
“The players must necessarily 
make up their work to keep up 
with the rest of the class, but no 
undue burden should be fdaced 
upon them, such as refusing to 
allow them to make up a quiz,” he 
said.
St. Louis Trip
The next point raised was that 
of the accomodations for the team 
on its trip to St. Louis. “This trip,” 
said Dr. Doherty, “was planned 
from the beginning by the athletic 
department, which has its own 
budget to work with. Perhaps such 
a long trip was a mistake. This 
decision is made by the Athletic 
Board, which gives its recommen­
dations to me. The team was giv­
en the best facilities within the 
budget of the athletic depart­
ment.”
Dr. Jones described the dif­
ficulties of scheduling classes for 
football squad members so that 
they might be released early for 
practicing. He requested that any 
suggestions for solving the prob­
lem be submitted to him.
Need More Practice 
Gerry Meyers, football captain 
and president of Men’s Dorm 
Council, said that the team wants 
any increment in practice time it 
can get, but “though it’s worth 
twice as much in the daylight, we 
would be happy to get it after 
dark it that’s necessary.”
In consequence he suggested 
that the number of lights on the 
field be doubled. He also asked 
that the school schedule teams 
which handle football in a like 
manner. Dr. Doherty pointed out 
that the team had a direct voice 
in making up the schedule through 
its representative on the Athletic [Continued on pap« 6)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY,. NOVEMBER 3, 1948Carnegie Tartan Letters To The Editor
__________________^_______________________________Editor, the Tartan,There Must Be a Way
In view of the recent student demonstrations, 
my attention has been called to a prevailing mis­
conception as to the functions of an institution 
such as Carnegie. I think it is generally agreed 
that the training for professional life is becoming 
increasingly exacting. I thing it can be demonstrat­
ed that even four years spent in such training is 
too short to cover the minimum requirements for 
most professions . . .
... I am fully aware that there is a demand 
for a certain type of institution, which is a com­
bination of country club, marriage mart, and per­
haps a political prep school. Such requirements
can very well be taken care of by state subsi­
dized institutions, which must admit all applicants 
with a high school graduation certificate. But for 
a professional school with any pretence of main- 
cnrr^p^0r^sa^aiyti,Ba7hman, ?udf VOL BuSy! taining the standards required by modern life;
Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Karns, why should it be Saddled withEdward Koos, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter,
Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellim,
Joann Williams, Nancy Will.Sports Staff—Robert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lith- 
gow, Frederick Lunt.Photography Staff—Richard Deininger. .Business Staff—Morty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Gold- enfeld, Dave Steiner, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon, Merle 
Berman, Nan Metcalfe, Patsy Griffith.
Makeup Staff—A1 BaderTypists—Elizabeth Asche, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.______
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER­TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '-«07 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, _ ---------
¿¡tek ^“^^'ActT/^ebrirrS1*1925 Authorized Octo-' the Carnegie Tartan and thought you might 
brr 21. *1918.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hpurs MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
•nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
EdItor-in-Chief .................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ........................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ....................................................... Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager ..................................................... Jay H. Johnson
New* Editor—Robert Kubiak, Features Editor—Gerald E. Peck, Chief Copy Editor—Thomas P. Murray, Sports Editor —Paul Offerman, Makeup Editor—Ralph Painter, Art Direc­tor—Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising Manager—Arthur G. Zuch, Circulation Manager—Lewis S. Sternberg.
Copy Editor—Pat Petrick, Headline Editor—Myra-Jane Bar­ry, Proof Editor—John Braun, Personnel Asst.—Richard B. Mitchell, Asst. Business Manager—Herbert Stone, Asst. Ad­vertising Manager—Malcolm B. Samakow, Chief Reporters— 
John K. Fockler, William Johns, Bennard Perlman, Cath­erine Rudy, Ruby Weisberg, Chief Sports Reporter—BiU Dorn, Chief Photographer—William D. Benswanger.
Copy Staff—Mary Cauffield, Analee Gelman, Dianne Stitt. Features Staff—A. Starke Drischell, Richard Drisko, Gene Feist, Frank Roth, Edward VonHalle.
the additional 
handicaps inherent in semi-professional athletics.
In conclusion, I wish to compliment and thank 
Dr. Doherty for his strong stand on principle, as 
reported in the newspapers this week. He is 
undoubtedly correct, and I hope will be backed up 
by all serious alumni.
L. G. Huntley 
Met. ’08.
Editorial
No Impasse Here
The multifarious activities of the past week 
have served to point out one salient and disturb­
ing fact. There is a mass of misunderstanding— 
some of it within the administration itself, but 
most of it between the administration and the stu­
dents — which is primarily responsible for the 
extremely poor light in which the school and the
students have been placed by the nation-wide press.
The students cannot be blamed for becoming ;+ will ° mayoe
jatient at the continued lack of success of the Let’s hone so Gn°U^ a umn* *0 do some good.
* * *
Sports Editor, the Tartan,
I’ve been following your weekly columns ii
w . beinterested in a clipping from the “Oklahoma City 
Times.” It seems the administration is getting 
publicity all right, but not the kind most schools 
would be proud of. Speaking for myself, and pos­
sibly others, I would rather Tech didn’t field a 
team at all than to put a bunch of fellows on 
the field who do their best but have nothing to 
show for it except temporary or perhaps even 
permanent injuries, all because of an uncoopera­
tive and seemingly uninterested administration 
Why the players put up with it is beyond me, 
unless it is their sheer love of the game.
I thought you might like to know that Tech’s 
fame (?) is spreading all over the country. Maybe
Open Letter
[Continued from page 2] 
who also wish to see Carnegie 
win its share of games, but who 
are ocncerned at the same time, 
with developing and strengthen­
ing our institution as a top-rank­
ing professional school. I hope 
that both ends may be attained.
Very sincerely yours,
Robert E. Doherty.
impatient
football team, but the follow-up to last week’s 
demonstration might have carried out a construc­
tive purpose had it been planned as carefully as 
the “spontaneous” rally.
Wrong Ideas*
Let’s hope so.
Bob MacLean, 
Mgt. Eng. ’48.* * *
Editor, the Tartan
This letter is a reply to the multitude of stu-
It is a mistaken impression on the part of many dents who have approached me and other foot-
students that the October 25 demonstration “put 
the pressure on” Dr. Doherty and that it “got 
things done,” both of which are simply not true. 
Whatever action has been taken this week is a re­
sult of Paul Offerman’s Sportscope of October 20, 
the suggestions made by the students who “visited” 
President Doherty in his office on October 25
ball players with the question, “What does the 
team think about the athletic program of the 
administration?” The greater majority of the ball 
players have expressed themselves in the follow­
ing manner:
We agree with the president’s program of pro* 
fessional education . . . We also agree that an
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.—2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
—also—
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes , 
Big ke Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the Collefe District
5808 Forbss Street Squirrel HIU
3714 Forbes Street, Oaklaad 
Main Plant!
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
(which were going to be made in the Student Con- education is first and fundamental in any college 
ference committee meeting two days later) and program . . .
those that were made at the SCC meeting.
The student demonstrations made none of these 
more effective. But we can hope that the alumni 
will be aroused to some sort of activity. 
“Within the Framework” 
Unfortunately for the bulk of the student body
However, it is our wish that the president 
[correct] present faults in the athletic set-up.
We have had enough student demonstrating and 
newspaper calling. These antics were good in that 
they have brought the situation to a head. But they 
also have reaped tens of thousands of unkind
Prom Committees 
Vote for Coke
there are extremists who believe, or think they words for Carnegie in publications throughout the
believe, in a change in the school policy on foot­
ball. Such an attitude should be rejected at once, 
for the policy will not be changed, regardless of 
student opinion or alumni opinion that a return 
to big-time football should be attempted, and any 
attempts to change it may hinder the improve­
ment of football under the present system.
country. The demonstrating has served its purpose. 
Now is the time for intelligent discussion between 
the parties involved and the administration.
Some changes have already been made. The 
concessions granted were the result of an unemo­
tional approach to the question. More was ac­
complished in a twenty-five minute discussion
The considered request of the students present of the football situation with the president at the 
at the SCC meeting was that everything possible Student Conference committee meeting of October 
should be done to give us a good team within 27 than had been done in three previous days of 
the framework of the school’s educational policy. rioting and student vs. administration brick-bat 
In that light, the impression given the news- throwing, 
papers during last week was completely errone- As I said before there are definite shortcomings 
ous The real argument of the students is not with in the present athletic program. It would be fruit- 
the’content of the policy, but rather with the vigor less to restate them here, but they are now being 
of its application, which had not been clearly dem- settled, or show promise of being rectified to the
onstrated.
Ways and Means 
The students should have acquainted them­
selves with the SCC and its function rather than 
immediately breaking out with sign painting and 
demonstrations. It should be obvious, particularly 
at this school, that rational thought and action 
hold far greater potentialities for accomplishment 
than do emotional outbursts.
Dr. Doherty is a reasonable man and is will­
ing, even eager, to listen to student problems and 
suggestions. This we have determined from almost 
two years of personal relationships with him. It 
is a fact that he is often unable to project him­
self into the student point of view, but he is cer­
tainly willing to listen to that point of view.
About “Passive Interest”
One misunderstanding that hampers both the
team’s satisfaction.
The college spirit at CIT this year has shown 
marked improvement. The team sincerely appre­
ciates the student body’s support and interest in 
its welfare. *
Gerry Meyers, 
Football Captain.
statement that “if they want any activity, they can 
have it” as a sign of school support. To them, 
when they cannot regularly see evidence of vital 
administration interest, this support or interest 
seems to be passive at best. This factor is gen­
erally ignored.
The one lesson the student body should have 
drawn from these happenings is that whenever 
there appear to be faults in the administrative 
setup they should take the initiative, if it be need­
ed, to meet the problems as they arise rather than students and the administration is in the degree waiting until an emotional dam is burst before 
of support which the administration will give to ac- they stop griping and start presenting their prob- 
tmtjes, Students somehow will not accept the lem to someone who can do something.
Ask for it either way ... both 
' trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY (
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
Plus If State Tax

---------------------------------------------------

¦H* • * • Ti: ?*tiI.i ijtf'ii*X.Jfv J ft 't*ttXq^xt.sfp.W'^
<J(otn»y-S8ac6 ^uatevnJee:
during these 30 days, you are not convinced that Camels are 
the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package 
with the unused Camels and we will refund your full purchase 
price, plus postage. This offer good for 90 days from this date.(Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
like cream hair tonics?
First Issue 
Of Cano On 
Sale Today
Cano, literary magazine of the 
campus, presents its first issue to­
day. Featured articles are “Base 
Operations” by Robert Cordray 
and “Oriehtal Atelier” by Gene 
Feist.
The 24 page magazine will again 
run advertisements, and the price 
will remain ten cents. The motif 
for the black and red cover of the 
first issue is fiddlers; the style is 
fantasy.
Election Survey 
Predicted Dewey 
New President
If the Skibopinion held last 
Thursday noon is any indicaion, 
Thomas E. Dewey will be the next 
President of the United States. 
The Republican candidate receiv­
ed 65.2% of the 320 votes cast by 
Carnegie students and over three 
times as many as President Tru­
man received.
Of the total votes cast, Dewey 
received 213 votes; Truman, 69; 
Wallace, 20; Thomas, 6; and TTiur- 
mond, 2. Ten people did not ex­
press any opinion. Over three and 
one-half times as many men vot­
ed as women. Almost a third oi 
the votes were cast by freshmen, 
while the seniors cast less than a 
fifth of the ballots.
Dr. Gold WiM Speak 
To Fellowship Group
Dr. Joseph Gold, M.D., will speak 
on “Making Marriage Christian” 
at the bi-monthly meeting of the 
Roger Williams Fellowship. The 
meeting will be held tonight at 
6:00 p. m. at the First Baptist 
Church, corner of Bellefield and 
Bayard St.
All Carnegie Tech students are 
invited to join the group at this 
meeting which will include dinner 
served at 6:15.
‘
30-day smoking test moves
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1948
Modern Art 
On Exhibit At 
Arts Center
“What is Modern Art?” an ex­
hibition from the Museum of Mod­
ern Art, will be presented at the 
galleries of the Arts and Crafts 
center, Fifth and Shady avenues, 
starting today and running until 
November 15.
“What is Modern Art?,” is de­
signed to aid the public in under­
standing and enjoying “Painting 
in the United States,” the current 
Carnegie Institute exhibition. In 
addition, first and second prize?
will be offered by the Weavers’ 
guild for the work exhibited by its 
members.
The Center galleries are open to 
the public daily from 10 a. m. to 
4 p. m., Saturday from 10 a. m.
EXPERT REPAIRS
V-Carne girTrtH-gine 
lddhol,Jyc
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1183 OAKLAND AVK. HA. 4*11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
» YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
TRADE MARK ® ( ,
*This special compound gives lustre s s : keeps hair in place without stiffrussi
THE OABNEOIB TARTAN
They Vie For Honorary Title
Carol Roden, Sally Hutchinson, Ctatherine Murphy (left to 
right), and Lynn Gasche, (not shown) were chosen by ROTC stu­
dents to become honorary officers.
CK
Good Meals Anytime
Try Us Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
The all school Military Ball, 
sponsored by Scabbard and Blide, 
will take place Saturday night No­
vember 6, at '9:00 p.m. in the 
men’s gym. Music will be by Bar­
ron Elliot and dress will be for­
mal. Tickets are $2.50 and are on 
sale at Skibo, all fraternity houses, 
and at the men’s dormitories. For 
the benefit of night students, tick­
ets will also be on sale at the door.
From a list of candidates rep­
resenting Citcom, Morewood Gar­
dens, and all of the sororities, Amy 
Carol Roden, Catherine Murphy, 
Sally Hutchison, and Lynn Gashe 
were chosen by all of the ROTC 
cadets to serve as honorary offic­
ers in the regiment. At the ball 
one of these girls will be named 
honorary colonel and regimental 
commander; and the other three 
girls will be named honorary lieu­
tenant colonels.
Besides the commissioning of 
the honorary coed officers, six ad­
vanced course senior cadets will 
be designated Distinguished Mili­
tary Students by Colonel Harold 
A. Kurstedt, professor of military 
science and tactics.
mTHROAT/RR/mOtí
wemmw/VG- C4MELS/
gives your hair 
that 11 just-combed"^ 
look—all. day. long!
NEW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural... it 
feels natural...and 
it stays in place I 
Try a bottle.
For 30 consecutive days in a recent test, hundreds of men and 
women all across the country smoked Camels-and only Camels—on the 
average of one to two packages a day.
Every week, their throats were carefully examined by noted throat 
specialists—a total of 2470 examinations from coast to coast.
And these famous throat specialists reported that they found not one 
single case of throat irritation due to smoking Camels!
But prove ¡t yourself! In your ,T-Zone”-T for Taste and T for 
Throat. Smoke Camels for 30 days. Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you 
about that full, rich Camel flavor. Let YOUR OWN THROAT tell you 
how mild a cigarette can be! Yes, prove for yourself that there’s

---------------------------------------------------

TWO NEW WAYS TO JOIN THE RANKS 
OF AMERICA’S YOUNG LEADERS
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948Scots Lose Last Home Tilt To W-J
NEW ACTIVE-DUTY 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR OFFICERS
See Reserve or National Guard Instructor, 
or local recruiting station.
PEACE IS AMERICAS 
MOST IMPORTANT BUSINESS
* WDCST CMOtCf OF CAKE« XUS + Itff OffOCTUNTTT FO« ADVA + UNUSUAL «STNttMCN? KNOTTS
US.ARMYand .L42—N o8CAR„.romTINC SERVICE ' L
DIRECT COMMISSION
A commission as second lieutenant in the 
Officers’ Reserve Corps with a 2-year 
initial tour of active duty is ready for 
you if you meet these requirements: one 
year of honorable service in any of the 
Armed Forces between 7 December 1941 
and 30 June 1947; have completed two 
years at an accredited college or univer­
sity; U. S. citizenship; AGCT score of
110 or better; not more than 32 years 
old; physically fit. Once commissioned, 
you’ll be assigned to a 3-month officers’, 
training school, and, on successful com­
pletion, you’ll be free to compete for a 
Regular Army Commission if you meet 
the competitive tour age requirements. 
Go to your nearest U. S. Army and 
U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station for 
complete details at once.
OCS FOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES
If you’ve graduated from high school or 
nan pass an equivalent examination, are 
between 19 and 28 years old, are aU.S. 
citizen, and have necessary physical 
qualifications, apply now for enlistment 
for Army OCS. After your application 
is approved, you’ll be enlisted as a 
Sergeant and given basic training if you 
have not had it already, then sent direct 
to Officer Candidate School, subject to
quotas, of course. Upon graduation, 
you’ll be commissioned a Second Lieu­
tenant in the Reserve, and placed on 
two years of active duty. Top OCS 
graduates are commissioned in the Regu­
lar Army—all others may compete for a 
Regular Army Commission. Get all the 
facts about applying for OCS entrance 
at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air 
Force Recruiting Station without delay!
*\Jinard Studios 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
staged a dramatic last quarter 
surge after a strangely sluggish 
first half. Apparently pacing him­
self throughout the contest, it was 
the incomparable Nick Simcic who 
led the Carnegie team in a sus­
tained touchdown drive of 95 
yards in the dying moments of the 
game.
Meanwhile Towler, the highly 
touted W & J backfield ace, fail­
ed to live up to his advance press 
notices. Although he tallied 13 
scoring lead, it was a sophomore 
points to maintain the nation’s 
[Continued on page 5]
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test *.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION SEE SERGEANT CREEK. LOCATED AT 
POLICE STATION, 3809 FORBES STREET, PITTSBURGH 13, PA. HE WILL 
BE GLAD TO GIVE YOU ANY AND ALL DETAILS YOU MAY DESIRE.
* l ( 
IT'S IASY to laugh at someone else’s wild untamed hair. But 
when it’s your own, it’s a horse of a different color. So why 
go through life with three stripes against you? A little Wildroot 
Cream-Oil hair tonic grooms your hair neatly and naturally 
without that greasy, plastered down look. It’s non-alcoholic, 
contains Lanolin. Relieves annoying dryness, removes loose 
dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test! Ask your 
barber for professional applications. And run like a zebra 
down to your nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle 
or tube, today! Your hair will look and f ~ 
feel better than it ever veldt! 'f
* o/327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.0
Wildroot Company, Inc, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Here’s how YOU 
can win the Gold Bars
CIT Harriers 
Bow To Case 
By 22-33 Score
of an Army Officer
The Carnegie Tech harriers suf­
fered their third consecutive set­
back last Saturday at the hands of 
the Case engineers by a 22-33 
score.
For the first time this season 
the Tartans had a good course on 
which to run. Schenley park, 
scene of the meet, provided ideal 
weather conditions and a course 
in excellent shape.
For Case the contest was con­
ducted against both Pitt and CIT, 
while Carnegie met only the Ohio 
team.
Ross Churchill of Case was the 
first man to cover the long 4% 
mile course in the excellent time 
of 24:49:9. Trailing him by about 
200 yards was the first Tartan 
harrier, freshman John Alberts, 
whose time was 25:30:00. Two 
Case men, Dehn and Stellhardt, 
then followed. Captain Gene 
Cock well finished second for CIT 
and fifth in the meet.
OberlinDoivns CIT 
In Hard Fought 
Soccer Contest
Oberlin college, on their home 
field, defeated the Carnegie soc-
Simcic 
Attack
Leads Carnegie 
In 19-7 Defeat
cer team Friday afternoon by a 
3-0 score. It was a rough and 
tumble game that resembled foot­
ball more closely than soccer as 
both teams rushed the goalie and 
five men were taken out with in­
juries.
In the first period, the play cen­
tered about the Carnegie goal with 
Wiley scoring for Oberlin on a 
pass from the left wing after 
eight minutes.
The second quarter was a turn­
about with Carnegie in possession 
of the ball most of the period but 
failing to take advantage of their 
opportunities. One minute before 
halftime, the Tartans were pen­
alized for use of hands. Curtis 
made the penalty shot good and 
put Oberlin in the lead 2-0.
In the third period Oberlin tal­
lied again as Dudley, on a pass 
from outside, blasted a shot past 
the goalie. Both teams were score­
less in the final quarter.
*Fowler Scores
Twice As Skibos 
Lose Fifth Game
In their most impressive show­
ing of the season, Carnegie Tech’s 
football team throttled the amaz­
ing Deacon Dan Towler and held 
a heavily favored Washington and 
Jefferson eleven to a 19-7 margin 
of victory at Forbes field last Sat­
urday.
The Plaid’s performance was 
all the more remarkable in view of 
the fact that less than a week be­
fore, the entire athletic system at 
j Carnegie appeared ready to fall 
apart at the seams.
The Tartans, however, reversed 
their form of recent weeks and
Summary
r*
Nick Simic, Carnegie halfback 
skirts his own left end to pick up 
yardage against Washington and 
Jefferson. Quent Holtz, No. 45 is 
coming up to block for the runner.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT CENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
CARNEGIE TECH
Ends—Williamson, Wilson, Donato,Gregorek, Dougherty, Fougere.
Tackles—Keats, Meyers, Hoffman,Madden.
Guards—Wiseman, Stovicek, Norton.Centers—Windish, Kamaras.
Backs— Magnifico, Simcic, Sommers, Haney, Minnich, Armour, Oberg, Ken- nery, Petrosky, Holtz.WASH—JEFF
Ends—Rodjom, Lewis, Colligan.Tackles—Capriotti, Duda, Faunce.
Guards— Lukowsky, Hanover, Jampet- ro, Buchak, Kurash.
Centers—Botula, Span.Backs—Craft, Bissell, Cooper, Towler, 
Cain, Jenner, Novak, Sourbeer. Riggle. 
Carnegie Tech 0 0 0 7— 7
Wash-Jeff 0 6 13 0—19Carnegie Scoring: Touchdowns—Simcic.
Conversion—Kenney (placement).Wash-Jeff Scoring: Touchdowns—Towler 2, Sourbeer.
Conversion—Towler (placement).

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948
SAE Leads National League; 
Sigma Nu Cinches Tie In AL
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Sigma Nu, TNT, and SAE forg­
ed to the front in their respective 
leagues in intramural football’s 
most active week of play.
Sigma Nu battled their way to 
at least a tie for the championship
Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUESigma Nu ...........................PiKA ....................................
WonLost01
TX .........................................1
Gringoes ..............................3Tau Delts ...........................2Stanley Steamers ...........FEDERAL LEAGUE3
TNT .......................................0ATO .......................................0Citcom ..................................2Phi Kappa .........................2DU ..................................................12FPHA
NATIONAL LEAGUE5
SAE .......................................11
Emanon ................................1
Delts ....................................1Kappa Sigs .......................2Results
AMERICAN—Sigma Nu 20 TX 15.
Gringoes 25 Tau Delta Phi 14.
Sigma Nu 17 PiKA 10. Sigma Nu 21 Gringoes 4. 
PiKA 24 Stanley Steamers 14.
FEDERAL —ATO 19 Citcom 8.
TNT 51 FPHA 6 Phi Kappa 33 DU 14 
Citcom 28 FPHA 7. NATIONAL—SAE 13 Delta Tau Delta 3.
Emanon 26 Kappa Sigma 20.Scheduled Games
Thursday, November 4—Emanon vs. Beta Sig. field No. 1; Tau Delts vs. Stanley Steamers, Field No. 2.
Friday, November 5—Kappa Sigma vs. 
Delts, Field No. 1, DU vs. ATO, field No. 2.Monday, November 8—Betas vs. Kap­
pa Sig, field No. 1; Beta Sigs vs. Delts, field No. 3.
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775
FOUNTAIN
PENS
PARKER . , . SHEAFFER 
i: WATERMAN . . .
ESTERBROOK 
NORMA FOUR-COLOR 
PENCILS
Singer Pen 
and Gift Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
Jimmy Ross
and his Whirlwinds
... Every Friday and Satur­
day we have evening enter­
tainment and dancing at 
student budget prices. No 
cover.
DON METZ
3802 Forbes St.
of the American League as they 
swept aside TX, PiKA, and 
Gringos to sport a 4-0 record.
PiKA bounced back from their 
defeat by Sigma Nu to trounce the 
Stanley Steamers and climb into 
a second place tie with TX, which 
lost its only game.
TNT smothered FPHA 51-6 in 
Federal League competition to 
give them three victories without 
a defeat and maintain an undis­
puted lead over the ATO’s who 
won over Citcom 19-8. Katselas 
lighted the fuse for TNT by taking 
part in six touchdown plays.
Citcom kept in the running by 
thumping FPHA 28-7.
SAE, leading the National 
League, defeated Delta Tau Del­
ta 13-3, which gives them a half 
game advantage oyer the Beta’s 
who did not play. Logsdon toss­
ed two touchdown passes and was 
outstanding in all-around play as 
he paced the SAE’s to their win.
Emanon edged the Kappa Sig’s 
26-20 to move into a second place 
tie with Beta Theta Pi in the Na­
tional.
W & J Game
[Continued from page 4] 
fullback, Jack Sourbeer, whom the 
President’s relied upon to gain 
yardage through the line. Towler, 
however, was much more impres­
sive when the visitors opened their 
aerial game. The big 220 pound 
Negro speedster worked equally 
well on both ends of the passing 
combinations, completing four out 
of five tosses for 64 yards and 
catching two others for 34 yards 
and a touchdown.
But the Deacon developed a case 
of fumbilitis at various crucial 
stages of the ball game and bob- 
bled away several of his team’s 
scoring threats, while the other 
half of Jay’s double-barreled run­
ning attack, Negro scatback Walt 
Cooper, also found himself bottled 
up by the hard charging Plaid 
line.
Carnegie Coach Bill Donohoe, in 
another surprise move, unveiled 
his new freshman passing threat, 
Quent Holtz, in the home finale. 
Holtz, perhaps just a little on edge 
in his first appearance under fire, 
whipped long, bullet-like passes 
all over the field in an attempt to 
put the Tartans in scoring posi­
tion. Although the youngster con­
nected only once in five tries, he 
netted 46 yards for the locals.
In the line, durable Floyd Wise­
man, stood out as one of the bet­
ter guards in the district with a 
display of defensive strength that 
more than matched anything the 
opposition could offer, while cap­
tain Gerry Meyers bowed out of 
the Forbes Field scene with an­
other of his stellar performances.
With their last Pittsburgh ap­
pearance of the year now behind 
them, Carnegie will close out the 
remainder of their eight game 
schedule with games at Oberlin, 
Lehigh, and Grove City on three 
successive Saturdays. Despite their 
recent improvements, it seems un-
University Recreation 
BOWLING
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenley 9307
likely that the Plaid will be able 
to salvage a victory from among 
these remaining contests.
Classified
Ads
FOE SALE—'36 Fora Phaeton. Excellent condition. Needs new roof. Ask for Donald Denniston at MA 5489 after 4:30
p. m.
FOB SALE—Model *‘A” Ford; $190, Abe Hopper, Delt house, SC. 8951.
WANTED FOR TRAINING: Two alertyoung men with Mechanical Engineer- degrees, training, or background. To be trained by heavy equipment house for future permanent managerial positions with well established, progressive firm. Send recent photo, educational back­ground and business history, if any. Call MU 7376.
SQUIRREL HILL 
HOBBY SHOP
Closest Hobby Shop 
to Tech
Balsa Wood
andModel Builders’ Supplies
2210 Murray Avenue
Below Phillips 
(68 or 69 Streetcar)
Ü-CA*ipc(s apsos... WF v L&etf
flf
MURIEL,I FEAR. YOUR. 
MELODIC MIASMA 
MAY CANCEL MY 
PRC Di LECTION FOR. 
^YOUR PULCHRITUOE...
SEE HE RE, MURIEL,DR.EMERSON’S QUITE SO, MURIEL!
TELLING YOU FOIE'S PERSPICACITY
YOU'RE SUNK. AS ,S CONSIDERABLE.
OUR SHOW LEAD \ \
IF YOU CANT STOP '
CLEARING YOUR THROAT .
EDDIES RIGHT, MUWEL! 
WHY NOT CHANGE TO 
PHILIP MORRIS. THEONLY 
LEADING CIGARETTE 
PROVED DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING!
JOHNNYi YOUR 
SUGGESTION , 
SHOWS REAL 
EU6N0M0SYNC!
ftj. PICK UP THAT 
.CUE FAST-
7fcryi%iGCif
Le ycu/i, vovafa/ovw
TRANSMOGRIFICATION—Complete change. 
THESPIS—Greek Goddess of tho Drama. 
MIASMA—A fog or mist. In tho pipes, H 
spells a dive for a diva. 
PREDILECTION—A high-class yen. ¦ ' t,
PERSPICACITY —Keen foresight.
CIGARETTE HANGOVER-That smoked-out 
taste, that Hght dry feeling in your 
throat, due to smoking. 
EUGNOMOSYNE—Good judgment in on 
emergency.
ADVENTITIOUS—On-th e-button 
ULULATIONS—The high ones sopranos hit 
on the nose.
PROBOSCIS—The beak, snout or schnon.take a smart cueirhespfans
Yes, it’s time to call FOR PHILIP morris! Remember: 
There's No cigarette hangover when you smoke philip 
MORRIS ... because PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritat­
ing than any other leading brand. That’s why eminent nose 
and throat specialists actually suggest*^ PHILIP morris in 
cases of irritation due to smoking! You’ll be glad tomor- 
row?you'smoked PHILIPmorris today/
3£PHI
?pkOOfl¦jig 
Doctors on Ptto.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNBGIB TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948
Luncheon
[Continued from, page ij 
hundred per cent behind all alum­
ni attempts to give Carnegie a 
good team under the Steffen fund. 
The lack of interest which alumni 
have thus far shown in this fund 
made one writer venture that 
“the only difference between 
North Carolina alumni and Car­
negie alumni was that the North 
Carolinians are interested in foot­
ball while Carnegie’s alumni are 
interested in research.” Another 
writer suggested that what we 
need is a high-pressured sales­
man for the Steffen fund.
PEA
[Continued from page 1]
Board.
[See letter to the editor from 
Meyers on page 2.]
Student Council president Vince 
Prus suggested that more vigor 
be used in recruiting men on the 
campus who might turn out for 
football if they were asked. Scotch 
and Soda chairman Jim McGiffin 
suggested that the training table 
be expanded to three meals a day 
for the squad. The president prom­
ised to do everything within the 
budgetary limits of the athletic
department.
Other Problems
Before the discussion became 
concentrated on the football sit­
uation a number of other problems 
were discussed. Dr. Doherty noted 
that a number of complaints had 
reached him that the Conference 
committee was not representative 
of the students and that it was not 
responsible to anyone.
He asked if there was an agree­
ment with this among the mem­
bers of the committee or sugges­
tions as to how the fault might 
be rectified. The members felt 
that the representation was about
More independent experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly 
than the next 2 leading brands combined!
An impartial poll covering all the Southern tobacco markets reveals 
the smoking preference of the men who really know tobacco—auction­
eers, buyers and warehousemen. More of these independent 
experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined.
as effective as it could be made.
A complaint was made that 
there was a lack of space in the 
women’s dorm lounges and that 
they tended to become crowded.
Dr. Miner explained that this con­
dition was a result of high con­
struction costs, and that adequate 
facilties will be provided as soon 
as possible.
LUCKY STRIKE MEANS FINE TOBACCO
So round, so firm, so fully packed — so free and easy on the draw
Laundry worries got you? Then 
start using the direct conven­
ient, personalized laundry 
service offered by RAILWAY 
EXPRESS. By personalized serv­
ice we mean your laundry will 
be collected by Railway Ex­
press pick-up facilities, sent to
your home promptly, and re« 
turned to your college address.
If your folks insist on paying 
all the bills, you can stretch your 
cash-on-hand by sending laun­
dry home ‘'charges collect*’and 
having it returned with charges 
prepaid at the other end.
No extra charge for pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal towns. Valuation free up to $50.00
EG—ISGTUbrSpecc
NATION-WIDE RAiL-AIR SERVICE
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
MM.
QWhat brand of shorts 
do college men swear by 
but not at?
A. ARROW 
’ SHORTS
WHY? Because Arrow's seamless seat 
and patented crotch construction pre­
vent chafing and creeping and give 
ample sitting-room where needed.
TRY Arrow shorts next time for real 
comfort. They come in oxford and 
broadcloth with gripper fasteners or 
buttons. Try Arrow undershirts too.
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEARHANDKERCHIEFSSPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Featuring Curtis Shoes
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
ADVERTISING SALESMAN WANTED
If you are looking for a part time job, here is a real opportunity to make money. High commission, luc­rative field. Write to HOLTON AD­
VERTISING SPECIALTIES, 271 North Avenue, New Rochelle, N. Y. for complete data.
STOP
Good Food 
Fast Service
TAKE OUT SANDWICHES 
and DRINKSCraig-ForbesPharmacy
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected 
• •
TRANS MOTG IFRGSI
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK 
- • 
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE Near Craigr
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................. Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager.................................................George Dawes
Staff
Reporters—Bob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
Columnist—Frank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning 
Raincoats Showerproofed
C—omp Tl—etch Iacnoma
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
SURPLUS PORTABLE 
MICROSCOPES
We offer a limited quantity of surplus portable microscopes for 
sale. These are all new, in the original cartons and cost many 
times the price for which they are now being offered.
Specifications: Overall height, 8 inches, turret with three differ­
ent powers. Will accept auxiliary eye-piece for higher powers 
desired. Fully adjustable on tiltback base. Optical system: pitch- 
polished lenses.
These portable microscopes are offered subject to prior sale 
on the following terms: Price $9.00, includes shipping and 
packing charges. Check or money order should be sent with 
your order, or $2.50 deposit, the microscope to be sent C.O.D. 
for balance. Any check received after quantity has been sold 
will be returned promptly.
GIBSON PAGE CO., INC. 
Dealers in War Surplus 
Box 1130, Rochester 2, N. Y.
Editorial
Tuition Policy Explained
(Ed. Note: In an editorial of the Plaid of October 13 the following statement was made: “The evening students pay tuition and various fees into the treasury 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Maybe not in the same amount as day stu­dents per year, but over a period of years the accumulated payments balance off.” This statement is open to misunderstanding. It is true only if qualified by a fairly complete explanation of the basis upon which the evening class fees are established. In order to correct any misunderstanding and also to give the 
evening students a comprehensive view of the fee structure, the following article has been prepared by the administration.)
It is the established policy of the institution that the level 
of instruction, class standards, and, where a degree is given, 
the requirements for graduation shall be the same for both 
day and evening classes. Therefore, the fees for the instruc­
tion itself shall be the same insofar as this can be determined.
The full-time day student pays a flat fee each semester regard­
less of the number of units scheduled. In most cases the minimum 
requirement for graduation is 48 units a semester for eigth semesters. 
These flat fees are as follows:
Engineering and Science....................................$300.00 a semester
Fine Arts .................................................................. 300.00 a semester
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College ___ 240.00 a semester
On this basis the per unit fee* 
for day students in Engineering
and Science and Fine Arts is $6.25 
($300-^48) and in M.M.C.C. $5.00 
($240^-48). The unit fees cur­
rently paid by evening students 
are $5.60 a unit for Engineering 
and Science subjects and Fine 
Arts, and $4.80 a unit for Gen­
eral Subjects and Margaret Mor­
rison.
In establishing the unit fees for 
evening classes the following fac­
tors were taken into consideration:
1. The day student is able to 
avail himself of the help and ad­
vice of his department head, his 
instructors, the Bureau of Meas­
urements and Guidance, the deans, 
the Department of Student Health, 
and others who are on campus 
during the day.
2. He may carry extra subjects 
without additional charge.
3. He may participate in a much 
wider field of extra curricular ac­
tivities including the gymnasium 
and intramural sports, as well as
the many student oganizations 
under student council.
4. His registration receipt ad­
mits him to the home games in 
football and basketball.
The administraiton endeavors to 
extend as many of these advan­
tages to the evening students as 
possible, considering the limited 
time available to the students.
Using the degree programs of 
the College of Engineering and 
Science as an example, the actual 
cost to the evening student is as 
follows:
312 to 318 units at $5.60 a unit 
$1747.20 to $1780.80.
72 units at $4.80 a unit $345.60.
Total 384 to 390 units $2092.80 
to $2126.40.
The total cost for a day student 
in Engineering and Science is 
$2400. Therefore, the evening stu­
dent pays about 12% less. The 
administration believes this to be 
a fair measure of the differential 
between the services and facili­
ties available to the day and even­
ing students.
NOTICETO ALL STUDENTS AND FACULTY
-OF-CARNEGIE TECH
Announcing The Reduction of
HAIRCUT PRICES!
—TO—
The Level BEFORE the September 1, T948 Increase
We Will Match Any Establishment in The College District
AS TO
PRICES, SERVICE AND EFFICIENCY
AT ANY TIME
We Thank You For Your Cooperation in the Future
AS WE HAVE IN THE PAST
THE ORIGINAL
TECH BARBER SHOPCORNER FORBES AND CRAIG

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1948
TONNSgg . MHSAI gEPRrrE rE
MRG
___
Soon our newest factory will be 
taking its place in the Chesterfield 
sky line in Durham, N. C., where the 
Chesterfield factory group is already 
“A city within a city.”
With the addition of this modern 
factory, efficient in every way, Chest­
erfield will continue to keep smokers 
from coast to coast well supplied with 
the cigarette that is—SO MILD THEY SATISFY MILLIONS
SO MILD THEY’LL SATISFY YOU-
iHkUwm * Mme Tow*» Ca
Arts Afternoon Successful; 
May Become Annual Event
Proclaimed the most successful 
event ever held in the Fine Arts 
college, Arts Afternoon is on its 
way to becoming an annual affair 
on the Carnegie Tech campus. 
Freshman from all five depart­
ments of the Art school were ex­
cused from afternoon classes in 
order to take part in the orien­
tation ceremonies.
At 1:30 p. m. the freshmen as­
sembled in the Carnegie Theatre 
to be addressed by an alumnus of 
CIT and former member of the 
Arts Night committee. Following 
the short assembly, all frosh were 
divided into small groups and
taken on tours of the various de­
partments.
A short program followed the 
tour. The drama students gave 
a one-act play, and the music stu­
dents presented harp, piano, and 
voice solds, as well as selections 
by a string quartet. After the en­
tertainment, coffee and cake were 
served.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If You’re Particular, See thegSrF PRAPSA IFEk
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Student Council
[Continued from page 1] 
of a scoreboard for the basketball 
games, and the presentation of a 
sportsmanship trophy for intra­
murals in the memory of A1 Mi- 
netti. Final action was postponed 
by the Council.
A report by Barry Rowles, 
Homecoming chairman, showed a
DANCING
EVERY TUESDAY, 
SATURDAY and SUNDAYDANCELAND
FREE FREE
PARKING CHECKING
WEST VIEW PARK
Route 19 • Trolleys 10-15
CHESTERFIELD IS BUILDING 
ANOTHEB FACTORY
BECAUSE ALL OVER AMERICA MORE MILLIONS 
OF SMOKERS ARE ASKING FOR v
deficit for the Homecoming cele­
bration amounting to $103. Half of 
this deficit will be borne by
Council while the remainder wiU 
come from President Doherty’s
fund.
NIXON—1 Week Beg. Mon., Nov. 8
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
‘‘The gayest, the brightest, the most original and 
delectable comedy to be seen . . . JOHN MASON BROWN
PRICES (Incl. Tax) 
and $1.95. 2nd Bale.—$1.30.
Wed. and Sat. Mats. Orch.—$3.25. Bale.—$2.60 and $1.95. 2nd 
Bale.—$1.30.
