CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56 — NUMBER 7 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1963
Richard Rubenstein Begins 
¿Kirkegaard Series’ Tuesday
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, director of Carnegie Tech’s 
B’nai B’rith Hillel Foundation will speak at this week’s as­
sembly on the topic of “The Philosophy of Kierkegaard.” The 
program has special significance as it will serve not only as 
a regular part of the weekly assembly program, but also as 
an introduction to a lecture seriesO 
on Kierkegaard, sponsored jointly
by the YWCA, YMCA, B’nai B’rith 
^illel Foundation, and the campus 
conference on religion.
Dr. Rubenstein, is Chaplain to 
Jewish students in the colleges 
and universities in Pittsburgh. Dr. 
Rubenstein has done graduate 
work in tjoth Jewish and Chris­
tian theological seminaries, re­
ceived his Ph.D. from Harvard 
University in the field of psy­
chology and religion, and has 
widely lectured in the United 
States, Canada, and Europe.
In this series of lectures, Dr. 
Rubenstein will present an intro­
duction to the thought of Soren 
Kierkegaard, the 19th century 
Danish Philosopher and theolo­
gian, whose ideas formed one of 
the foundations of existentialist 
thought. The series, beginning 
with the assembly in Wherret 
Lounge at 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday, 
November 5, will continue for six 
Wednesday afternoons in Room 
40, Skibo, 4:30-5:45 p.m. For the 
Wednesday series, members of 
Hillel or the YM or YW pay no 
fee. The fee for non-members is 
$3.00. Students and faculty are 
welcome to join whichever organi­
zation they wish or to pay thé fee.
£lub Plans 
Europe Jet
Now is the time to start thinking 
about your next summer’s vaca­
tion in Europe !
With this in mind, the Interna­
tional Club announces that it is 
organizing a group flight to Eu­
rope next June at a cost of about 
£320 round trip — a saving of over 
$200! Two return dates will be 
offered late-August and mid-Sep- 
tember.
The flight is being organized by 
the four Carnegie Tech graduate 
students who organized this past 
summer’s successful Carnegie 
Tech flight. However, next year’s 
flight will not be restricted to 
Carnegie Tech students only, but 
will be open to students at Chat­
ham, Duquesne, Mount Mercy and 
Pitt as well.
For further details contact: 
Richard Niehaus (682-8492), 
Harry Norris (682-8548), William 
Russell (441-5449) and Thomas 
Steffen (441-5449). Alternatively, 
you may write to: International 
Club, Europe Flight, Box 235, Car­
negie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Sorority Rush 
Is Coming —
Go Greek
Hootenananny 
Diverts Tech
One of the highlights of Fall 
Festival Weekend occurred Friday 
night as Judy Henske, and Bud and 
Travis entertained a highly spirit­
ed crowd in the gymnasium for 
“Hootenanny ’63.”
Beginning with such songs as 
“You’ve Been a Good Old Wagon, 
Daddy, But You’ve Done Broken 
Down” and “Henry In The Wall,” 
Miss Henske commanded the at­
tention of the audience with a 
deep, throaty, and intense voice. 
As she introduced each number, 
she quieted the audience with 
raised arms and then was ready 
to work up to a feverish pitch 
again. Miss Henske’s portion of 
the evening was ended with 
“Wade in the Water,” a selection i 
from a movie she recently made.
During intermission, a guitar 
was awarded as door prize to 
Allen Bacher, freshman mechan­
ical engineer from Great Falls, 
Virginia.
Highly popular with the audi­
ence were “And They Called The 
Wind Maria” and “Malaquena 
Saterosa” rendered by the team 
of Bud and Travis. Whether they 
sang softly or loudly, enthusias­
tically or quietly, the audience re­
mained spell-bound for almost one 
hour as they entertained.
Long Weekend Sees Techites 
With Festival Spirit, Activity
CARNE GISTU ORSEURFAEH LANGISH Y ^IGWS aSi tDUVSMN *EUIISR nURO2RDSFTU1
John C. Minard 
Succeeds Speer
Carnegie Tech’s Dr. Andrew B. 
Speer has submitted his resigna­
tion to Dean Brown effective as 
of November 1. Dr. Speer will ac­
cept a position as Senior Physician 
with the Veteran’s Administration.
Succeeding Dr. Speer is Dr. 
John C. Minard, a young graduate 
of Notre Dame and the University 
of Pittsburgh Medical School. He 
served his internship at Shady- 
side Hospital and is presently a 
member of their staff. He will as­
sume duties Friday, November 1. 
Dr. Minard’s office hours will vary 
slightly from Dr. Speer’s. Week 
day hours are 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 
p.m. Dr. Lucille Koehler’s hours 
will remain the same.
Dean Brown, in accepting Dr. 
Speer’s resignation, thanked him 
for his seven years of service to 
the college and wished him suc­
cess in his new position. Next year 
Dr. Speer would have reached 
Carnegie’s mandatory retirement 
age of 68. I
“AIEAU nAGURN IUSL TR2>L iG C2RzUN *ERUUE E2 aUTW 42>I O2R GUG RSIIH1
-----------------------------------------------------------.—+
Fraternities Take A ward#Prag Covers 
West Alliance 
At Assembly
Derek Prag, British publications 
official for the European Commu­
nities, expressed his views on the 
future course of European unity 
in the fourth Tech assembly Octo­
ber 22 in the Wherrett Lounge.
Mr. Prag began his talks, “Is 
Our Western Alliance Cracking?”, 
by reviewing the origin of the 
various European Organizations. 
After World War II the western 
European nations realized the 
need for some sort of unity to 
help themselves recover from the 
devastations they had suffered. In 
1952 the six nations which are to­
day members of the Common 
Market united to form the Eu­
ropean Coal and Steel Community.
[continued on page 3]
For Fall Festival Efforts
One highlight of the Fall Festival Weekend was the 
presentation of awards at the dance Saturday night. The 
lively music of Jerry Betters and his orchestra preceded the 
presentations, which occurred at 11:00 p.m.
Several awards were presented including the Inter- 
Fraternity Scholarship trophies.4——-—---------------------------------------------
Sigma Nu captured the highest 
average award for last semester 
with Alpha Tau Omega attaining 
recognition for greatest improve­
ment.
Pledge cheer competition was 
won by Phi Kappa Theta,* first 
place. Tau Delt Phi and Pi Kappa 
Alpha tied for second.
The trophy presentations for 
fraternity displays were awarded 
in first, second, and third places 
respectively to Alpha Tau Omega 
for their twenty-first century 
version of Tech’s football “stellar
performance,” Tau Delta Phi for 
their reproduction of a Pitt dorm 
stopping a F & M drive in the
year 2000, and Beta Theta Pi for
their crystal ball glimpse of
“Tartan” victory over a moon 
team in the year 2000.
Judges for both the displays and 
the pledge cheers were all from 
off-campus. Mrs. Mary Shaw Ma- 
rohnic, Mr. Robert Blackwell, Mr. 
Philys Beck, and Mr. Adolf
Marche held the job of judging 
displays. Miss Jill Smith and Miss 
Floi-ence Fresh, were the two 
judges for pledge cheers.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, October 30, 1963
Ford Gives 
Design Grant
Ford Motor Co. has recently 
presented a donation of $6,000 to 
the school. The money was of­
ficially given by Mrs. Joseph Oros, 
Ford’s chief stylist. Two worthy 
industrial design students will re­
ceive scholarships of $1,450, while 
the remaining $3,100 will be used 
at the discretion of the Depart­
ment of Painting, Design, and 
Sculpture.
Architects 
Form Council
On Tuesday, October 22, thir­
teen students of the Department 
of Architecture formally inaugu­
rated the 1963-64 Architectural 
Student Council with the election 
of coordinating officers. The 
organization is comprised of two 
elected representatives from each 
of the five undergraduate classes, 
an elected chairman, and two 
delegates to Student Congress.
Elected members this year in­
clude: Jack Scholl — Chairman, 
Howie Cohen, Rich Pless, Frank 
Grisnik, Dave Henderson, Dale 
Chodorow, Bob Oberdorf, Mike 
Futterman, Jim Truby, Blaine 
Cliver, Chuck Sioberg, and Stu­
dent Congress delegates Mike 
Allen and Walt Page.
The Architectural Student- 
Council is now in the process of 
composing a workable constitu­
tion and instigating an official 
policy of action. Its tentative 
plans are for the improvement of 
communication between the stu­
dents and the faculty, and be­
tween the Department of Archi­
tecture and the student body and 
administration of Carnegie Tech.
Sylvania 
Compiles Book
The Electronic Tube Division 
of Sylvania Electric Products Inc., 
is offering a free booklet, “A 
New Era of Sylvania Electronic 
Tubes,” which is designed to ac­
quaint the reader with recent ad­
vances in receiving tube technol­
ogy. The 23-page illustrated bro­
chure outlines such advanced 
Sylvania designs as sarong coat­
ing, strap frame grid and new 
concepts in bulb construction. In 
addition, the booklet discusses 
automation in the manufacture 
of vacuum tubes. For a copy of 
the booklet, write the Carnegie 
Technical, Box A, Campus Mail.
BULLETINBOARD
n2UERH -2FVRUNN
The 1963-64 Inter-Collegiate 
Poetry Congress Anthology is 
presently accepting original poetry 
for its publications to be printed 
in December. All works must be 
submitted by November 25 to 
Inter-Collegiate Poetry Congress, 
528 Market Street, Lewisburg, Pa. 
Cash awards will be given to those 
whose works are accepted.
9FNiRSFTU
Thursday, October 31, 1963, is 
the last day on which students 
may apply or pay premiums for 
participation in the Student Acci­
dent and Illness Program. Stu­
dents who do not have this insur­
ance protection, or similar protec­
tion, are urged to participate.
Application and information 
may be secured from the Regis­
trar’s Office.
C2I0 'SFTAFV
Folk Dancing, Sunday, 7:30 to 
11:00 p.m., Skibo. Teaching dur­
ing the first part of the evening. 
Beginners are welcome. For fur­
ther information contact Les 
Lave, ext. 542.
JANE2RH -Iiz
On Monday, November 4 at 4:30 
in the Wherrett Room Clio, Tech’s 
history club, will have two speak­
ers to discuss job opportunities in
the government. Mr. Robert John­
son, assistant district manager of 
the East Liberty Social Security 
office, will speak about the gov­
ernment jobs open to college 
graduates; Mr. Leonard Bushkoff, 
a new member of the History de­
partment will tell about his for­
mer position with the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff. All interested students 
are invited to attend.
writing or reporting news and 
feature stories for the paper are 
invited to attend.
CAUIL *UR;ATU
Several American Field Service 
alumni at Tech are interested in 
compiling a list of AFS’ers at 
Carnegie. Americans Abroad sum-
-------------------------------------------------------^
mer students Gary Lindstrom — 
France ’60, Chris Macosko—Ger­
many ’62, and .Tine Wick — Ger­
many ’62 and Foreign student 
“Scotie” Skembris from Greece to 
Iowa ’60, would like to contact 
other Tech AFS’ers. Please write 
or call Tina Wick, 7E, MU. 2-8810 
or Chris Macosko, BTP, MU. 1- 
8356.
CAIDVRSGWAT *URAUN
The Department of Graphic 
Arts will show its second feature 
in its Filmgraphic Series of 1963 
on Friday, November 1, at 8:15 
p.m. in Porter Hall 100. The films 
will be “Very Nice, Very Nice” 
and “Night and Fog.”
-2DGiEUR
At 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, 
October 31, Robert R. Hughes of 
the Shell Development Co. will 
speak on the “Use of the Com­
puter in Design.” The talk will 
deal with the integration of com­
puter programs for unit designs in 
the overall design of a process. 
The meeting will be in Scaife 
Lecture Hall and is open to all 
faculty, graduate students, and 
other interested persons.
Strand
Starting Wednesday, Oct. 30 
ONE - WEEK - ONLY
Frank Sinatra
—in—COME BLOW 
YOUR HORN
Technicolor(r>
A PARAMOUNT RELEASE 
Panavision(r)
2-GREAT-ATTRACTIONS
Haylejr Hills - Burl Ives
Wait DÎSN6Y
lilfl™ racHNicoipr.
Ikw f, WU «SU tkanWMa St lot • e '963 WM Km«
683-6992
BU>N *ESOO
All' news staff writers and re­
porters of the Tartan are request­
ed to attend a brief meeting to­
morrow, Thursday, October 31 at 
7:00 P.M. in the Tartan office, 
Skibo. Students interested in
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HAMBURGER & PIZZA SHOP 
• • • 
HAMBURGER - 15< 
PIZZA - 10* per cut 
• • •
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMITORIES
(Min. Order $1.50)
tGUF PUU0LSHN 
76 a.m. - " S1D1
CRALSH SFL *SEiRLSH 
76 S1D1 e q S1D1
MA 1-7388 MU 2-8466
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
S3m3**
¦s¦s0050*n2D1“>
CO
09
r-m
CD
n
mzH
¦ ¦HB¦
S r»-5
>•>*¦£ ^ 
5
Ì
—DAILY 
NEWS
-HERALD 
TRIBUNE
ra an 
rr
dQtHiLL
4 2 1 - 490'J
Special Student Faculty 
Discount Coupon
This ad when presented at the 
Box Office and 90c will admit 
one student or Faculty member.
IMi-M present«
u^lo^lpa lt4pla
RUTHERFORD MORLEY
WM AGATHA CHRISTIE'S
FORVM
FORBES AT SHADY .fl
FLORA
ROBSON
m Big Week
Between Classes or at Study Break . . 1
- SCOTTY'S -
FLOR AF COanO dFl 
ei tFlaC h Dhd
qr7y Ctl4p* ^mpB.p 
E s b 2FTO s s s
lt.ap yd BtlaJ tC paB^ fr7y npBB ^cph
gEW Ppp“
^ r»ftvr
The Boulting Brothers present their tie'X comedy "Heavens 
Above!” starring Peter Sellers, Cecil Parker and Isabel Jeans.
The Shadyside
5518 Walnut St.
682-1901
/í
Make It A Date
Enjoy the Rollicking Campus Comedy
Y 2O Y
Take Her, She's Mine
STERLING
YATES
>AEW
DORIS
HACKNEY
LYNN
GEORGE
Tuesday thru Saturday at 8:30 
Sunday at 7:30
Tickets Available at Pitt Bookstore and Student Desk 
Sunday — Friday $1.50 Saturday $2.00

---------------------------------------------------

SHIRT!
I WER interested in modern promotional techniques, exterior garment mer- 
i j chandising-wise, we at Eagle have devoted particular attention of late to 
the commercial practices of our colleagues in the tunafish, soup and soap lines.
It seems that these three diverse industries have all discovered that by 
offering you a free discount coupon good for three cents off the purchase price 
of their product, they can lure you down to the neighborhood store. Well, 
we have been considering various ways to market (we believe that's the word 
they use) our Inishowen Cheviot Brooketowne. The first two adjectives describe 
a heavy herringbone oxford designed by our shirting gourmet who describes this 
fabric as meaty. Brooketowne is our tapered body button-down with the sloppy 
bulge we used to call flare before everyone else did too. So, tunafish on the 
mind, we decided to dip into that great fund of American advertising knowhow.
Friends! as soon as you’ve written us to learn the name of your nearest 
Eagle dealer (not all Eagle shirts have the Eagle label in them, recall), and we 
answer you, and you need a shirt, run! don’t walk and claim your Eagle I. C. 
shirt at three cents off! At once!
SAVE 3* ON YOUR VERY NEXT 
EAGLE INISHOWEN CHEVIOT SHIRT!
(Price before discount, about $7.50)
MR. DEALER: For your convenience in obtaining prompt accurate payment for this coupon, send it to Eagle Shirtmaken, Herringbone 
Oxford Inishowen Cheviot Brooketowne Prompt Accurate Payment Department, Quakertown, Pennsylvania (Attn. Miss Afflerbach). 
Offer void where prohibited, restricted, or ignored. Only one (1) coupon per customer Cash value: 1/100 of one cent. Eagle Shirt makers.
C;
Wednesday, October 30, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
• Panliel Study Room Offers 
Scholastic Improvement
When “quiet hours” aren’t so quiet or when More wood 
women want to study some place else besides their rooms, 
they can now use the Panhellenic-sponsored study room. 
Beginning Monday, the Blue Roo min Morewood Gardens 
was opened for the use of all women residents.
^ Panhel hopes that through this*
new program, both sorority and 
independent women will be able 
to improve their scholarship. The 
study hall will be open on the 
following basis, as long as the 
rules set up for its use are obey­
ed.
The study hall will be open 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thurs­
days except perhaps during finals 
and on Thanksgiving, from 7:30 
until 10:00 p.m. Freshmen will 
sign out at the main desk for their 
library curfew, 10:10 p.m., and 
sign back there, as well as at the 
study hall.
Each week a sorority will be in 
charge of providing two monitors 
per night to the study room. And, 
sororities will send the Pan- 
hellenic Scholarship Chairman a 
list of those actives and pledges 
who are supposed to attend each 
night.
Girls who are scheduled to at­
tend the study room ana want to 
be tutored must arrange with 
Phi Tau Gamma for the tutoring 
service. They may be tutored 
during study hall time; however, 
the tutoring cannot be done in the
study room (Morewood Library is 
available). The girls must, how­
ever, sign in at the study room 
and indicate that they are being 
tutored.
The study room must be kept 
quiet at all times. Girls who wish 
to smoke must bring their own 
ashtrays; the monitors will see 
that a wastebasket is available.
Corrigan Speaks 
Third In Series
This Friday, November 1, at 
7:00 p.m., Professor Corrigan will 
speak at the Friday Forum series, 
at the Center of Lay Theological 
Studies, 5220 Forbes Avenue. Dr. 
Corrigan will discuss some of the 
questions which the contemporary 
theater poses. All students and 
faculty at Tech are invited to hear 
Dr. Corrigan and join the discus­
sion.
This forum on the theater is 
the third in a series dealing with 
theology and various aspects of 
our culture. The Center of Lay 
Theological Study is under the 
auspices of the Campus Ministries 
of the Baptist, Methodist, United 
Church of Christ and United 
Presbyterian U.S.A. Churches.
Sylvia W. Farny Scholarships 
Granted To Mech E. Students
The Sylvia W. Farny Scholarships, one or more Annual 
awards of $500 each, are granted to men or women under­
graduates in Mechanical Engineering. A candidate must be a 
citizen of the United States who is enrolled in a college or 
university of this country which has an accredited Depart­
ment of Mechanical Engineering#------------------------------------------------------—
Prag Talks On 
European Unit
[continued from, page I] 
As a result of their cooperation in 
this organization, the output of 
iron and steel nearly doubled and 
better working conditions were 
provided for the workers.
In 1958, two new European 
Communities were established. 
The European Atomic Energy 
Committee was organized to bring 
industry into the atomic age and 
the Common Market was to tackle 
economic problems. Mr. Prag 
pointed out the many achieve­
ments of the Common Market. 
Within the last five years trade has 
doubled among the six member 
nations and tariffs have been re­
duced 40%. By 1967 or 68 he fore­
sees a single external tariff for 
these six countries with a free 
internal trade system, much like 
the United States.
Mr. Prag describes the Common 
Market today as a “political un­
der taking using economic means 
for the purpose of uniting Eu­
rope.” It is definitely not a tariff 
block against the United States 
and, although some of its leaders 
have been antagonistic towards 
the United States in recent years, 
most members wish to promote 
more friendly relations with our 
country.
Indeed, Mr. Prag believes that 
“the free world depends on an 
open Atlantic partnership” be­
tween the Common Market and 
the United States. Although the 
United States will probably not 
consider joining the Corpmon 
Market for at least half a decade 
or more, a “realization of com­
mon aims and tasks in the world” 
is necessary to our well-being.
Promoting better relations with 
the United States is one of the 
chief goals of the Common 
Market today. Another immediate 
aim is to see that their governing 
process becomes more democratic. 
Mr. Prag lists DeGaulle, who 
wants to keep the Market more of 
a confederacy, as one of the chief 
opponents to the more federal, 
democratic government which he 
is predicting.
In summing up his talk, Mr. 
Prag stressed that the Common 
Market is aware of its faults, but 
is working to improve them and 
hoped that one of the results of 
this improvement would be the 
strengthening of ties between Eu­
rope and the United States.
WÄLLYS
Campus-Favored
upB
J.*Jen.nn9p*
,t^Cpl*
u^**^o9-
C,tl*Jp9u
PtupB
J.*Jen.nn9p*
,t^Cpl*
C,^a*
'lp** *Jtp*
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave.(Across from Strand Theater)
and a Student Section of the 
A.S.M.E. The scholarships apply 
to the final year of undergraduate 
study. Selections of juniors is 
based on scholastic achievement, 
financial need, character, person­
ality and qualities of leadership.
For an application form or fur­
ther information see Mr. Blake in 
the Financial Aid Office (A.H, 
150). Final deadline for applica­
tion is February 10. Notice of the 
result of application is sent to 
each candidate during April.
FRATERNITIES
Now available on Tech 
Wholesale meat & milk
Meat Is U. S. D. A. Prime and Choice
n2REA2F T2FER2IIULd LUIA;URUL SE F2 UvERS TWSRVU1
CONTACT BARRY THOMPSONMU 2-0767
$ 1*3 SACtE SHIRTMAKERS, QUAKERTOWN. PENNSYLVANIA
pSVIU *WAREN SRU S;SAISzIU SE -2STW J2iNU

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, October 30, 1963
Editarial
Working Overtime
A one day vacation for Thanksgiving is 
absurd. With many classes scheduled on 
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, having 
Thursday off is no vacation at all: you still 
use the day to prepare for Friday’s assign­
ments. Moreover, students incongruously re­
mark that some of their teachers don’t care 
for them to show up on Friday.
By asking in our opinion poll if students 
will cut any classes that Friday, we do not 
mean to stir them to do so, nor do we con­
done this action. Students will not deliber­
ately cut their classes in disapprobation to 
the school’s ruling. However, many say that 
missing classes on Friday will give them a 
chance to be home for the holiday. Perhaps 
our question on the poll will substantiate the 
need of a Thanksgiving vacation.
Student Congress has unanimously passed
Readers Wrife
a recommendation to the administration that 
Friday be reinstated as a vacation day in the 
next school year. Chairman Tom Pyke cited 
many reasons to Dean Brown in support of 
this proposal. We hope the administration 
does not superficially glance at these reasons 
nor consider them a mere rationalization for 
a chance to miss a few classes. They may 
feel that many students do not take advant­
age of Thanksgiving vacation, nor spend it 
with their families. However, thirteen weeks 
of school is a sufficient reason to have some 
break.
At least, if the school does not decide on 
this proposal, the administration and the 
various departments should not hand down 
a ukase damning the student who misses a 
class before or after vacation.
M.L.S.
Men’s Dorm Council Defended
Editor, the Tartan:
In last week’s Reader’s Write, 
Mr. Hawkins berated Men's 
Dorm Council for its action 
denying monetary support to 
the Fall Festival Committee in 
its “jam-session” effort for Fri­
day afternoon. As a dormitory 
resident (but not a member of 
dorm council) I would like to 
laud the council for showing the 
discretion it did by refusing aid.
Fall Festival is supposedly an 
all-school event and the abso­
lute authority for its function­
ing is vested in the all school 
organization. Student Congress. 
In fact, neither the fraternities 
nor other school organizations 
may schedule conflicting social 
events. Unfortunately, either 
Student Congress, the chairman 
of Fall Festival, or both lacked 
the foresight to plan for the jam- 
session, but this is no reason to 
cry on Men's Dorm Council’s 
shoulder.
To carry Mr. Hawkin's com­
plaint a little farther, if it is 
worth $50-5100 to Men’s Dorm 
Council to make up for Fall Fes­
tival Committee’s vacant 2 
hours, why not have it support 
>4 of the entire weekend? In 
fact, why not have it donate a 
few hundred dollars to the ail­
ing Campus Chest, or help 
Freshman Camp with a small 
stipend? Why not? Quite simply 
because, although dorm resi­
dents have as much interest in 
Campus Chest or Freshman 
Camp as anyone else, these 
areas are not part of Dorm 
Council’s bailiwick, and it should 
not be asked to pay for Student 
Congresses hardships and mis­
takes. And Mr. Hawkins’ state-
a plain, ordinary mistake — 
“turned out that there was a 
definite dead space,” “Funds to 
support this had not been allo­
cated.”
Although I am sure Mr. 
Hawkins will consider my com­
parisons a little far-fetched, I 
don’t think my basic point is. 
Fall-Festival is an all-school 
event handled by Congress — 
keep it so.
In addition, I question the 
truth of the allegation that dorm 
residents, “did not want to go 
along with anything the frater-
jority-independent Dorm Coun­
cil defeated the motion for 
monetary support to Fall-Festi­
val. Hah. May I ask if Mr. 
Hawkins has seen the dorm’s 
Fall-Festival display, the al- 
most-ran last year’s dorm buggy, 
or if he has ever heard of the 
Whales an dother dorm-support­
ed IM teams?
I hope the discretion shown by 
our Dorm Council is a sign of 
what we can expect from it in 
the future.
Matthew Jacobs 
Sr Physics
ments imply that this was just nities were doing,” and so a ma-
Haivkins Seen As
50 7EARS AGO TODAY B}""tr^oby
There are years and then there are years. Tech was 
almost as inept at football then as now for although show­
ing a stiffer defense they still lost to Grove City 7-3. The 
usual attendance at the general lectures appears to be one 
thing that has held constant throughtime. It was poor then; 
it is poor now. The Carnegie Mechanical Engineering So­
ciety achieved affiliation in the ASME. For the sophomores 
who are not in the Thursday Morning Marching and Listen­
ing Society, the woes of gym began for you this year. The 
Deans of the various colleges felt that more attention should 
be paid to the student’s bodily development; consequently, 
you are still out there playing touch football. While I’m on 
the subject of athletics there was an interesting note that 
the cross country team seems to be dwindling in member­
ship. Out of an original 35 there were less than half left. 
It appeared that some people just wanted a locker and took 
advantage of the situation. Good triumphs though; for it was 
also mentoined that the manager had a key to all the lockers 
and removed the offending material. An ad in the paper seems 
to indicate that the problem of meeting with the fairer sex 
has always been somewhat of a problem. The ad stated, “The 
Tech boys haven’t a theatre of their own so many tell us 
the next best place to meet their friends is The Cameraphone 
in East Liberty.”
Editor, the Tartan:
Last week the Tartan pub­
lished a letter criticising the per­
sonnel of Men’s Dormitory 
Council, their motives, and their 
decision rejecting a request for 
funds by the Chairman of Fall 
Weekend. It is unfortunate that 
the claims and the charges of 
the author of the letter, Bob 
Hawkins, were not investigated, 
for if they were, the gross in­
accuracy, the unsubtle slur, and 
the utter unauthoritiveness [sic] 
of the aformentioned [sic] let­
ter would have shown it to be 
what it is: namely, someone
talking about something he 
knows very little about and 
what he does know is wrong.
If Mr. Hawkins thinks for a 
moment that he has taken the 
annual, sour, fall pot-shot at 
Men’s Dormitory Council and 
placed it in some low disrepu­
table niche of campus opinion, 
he can just think again.
Last week the story was 
printed second-hand (at best), 
this week read it first hand with 
the correct facts in the correct 
sequence.
[continued on page 5]
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Groups
In this article the word “group” should be taken to 
mean “persons working together toward some common 
goal” (at least obtensibly). The writing that follows will 
discuss aspects of the question “What is the value of group 
effort as opposed to individual activity?”
Groups have accomplished much. Using the definition 
above governments can be looked upon as group (not ag­
gregates) since they consist of, and are formed by, persons 
working toward some goal (stability, “civilization”, money, 
etc.). Most persons will probably agree that “the world” is 
better off with some form of government than with none, 
Also, it can be claimed that the scientific, literary, and other 
achievements that are a part of modern life have been ac­
complished by groups. The persons who added to the prev­
ious stores of knowledge in any field may not all have 
been living at any one time, but they all worked toward the 
same general goal.
It may be agreed that the type of group already dis­
cussed is a “good” type. But a narrower form of group 
exists that has not made as clear a case for itself: The group 
that works toward a goal during the same period of time 
with its members aware of what the other participants are 
doing, and with members able to convey thoughts and 
opinions on any subject to other members. Most of the 
great “creative” advances have come from individual effort. 
However these creative efforts have been implemented by 
groups. Even using the narrow definition, the executives of 
a corporation can be considered a group. If creativity is a 
function of individuals (this has been discussed in a previous 
column), and if groups can best make creative ideas into 
reality for the “masses,” then it would seem that both groups 
and individuals are useful.
However, the individual can think creatively without * 
the necessity for any group existing while it seems clear 
that most groups are greatly helped in accomplishing their 
goals by creative persons both within and without the group.
An unimaginative group does not improve itself very rapid­
ly if at all. It would be unfortunate is still possible — and 
what area has been perfected?
A danger exists that groups, under the pretext of per­
forming the functions outlined above, may submerge or dis­
courage creative thinking by individuals. Groups at times 
put pressure on deviates to conform to the “acceptable” 
range of behavior, or not to express ideas that vary radical­
ly from those of the majority. This pressure is exerted in 
such a way that the creative person may suppress his views 
for the “good” of the group. But this will result in a group 
(or a society) stagnating. Groups must pattern themselves 
in a manner that gives the creative person freedom to think 
and express what he pleases.
‘‘«CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
%
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa. /
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In«.
Editor in-Chief .............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor................................ B. J. Barrera
Managing Editor ..............................................AI Pollock
Business Manager ..........................*... Michael McCoy
Layout Editor......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor....................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor .................................Alma Rock
Features Editor...........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ...............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager .................................John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ...........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .....................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Charles Ho/ook, Annie Moser. Margie Park. Peggy Riva.
News Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz, Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie, Tom 
Glassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Mihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim 
Panepinto, Ellisa Parker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, Gretchen Smith, Bob 
* Wohlford.
Features Staff: Jeffrey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, 
Arlene Kadish, Marion Mulligan, Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells, Stephen Yafa. 
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, Randy French, Al Green,
Chris Macosko.
Layout Staff: Diane Brown. Craig Edwards, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely 
Philofsky, Ted Pierce, Marion Mulligan.
Copy Staff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Lou 
Recco, Ginny Salko Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Verna 
Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Photo: Jim Nichol, Russ Stinebaugii, Dick Osman.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian Beth Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karnell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino­
grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kali, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paffe S
yPolulack Defends Dorm Council
[continued from page 4]
Alarmed at the “dead spac^” 
in last Friday’s schedule (due 
to the decision of the sororities 
not to do individual skits), the 
Chairman of Fall Weekend came 
?to Men’s Dormitory Council with 
these facts: there was a dead 
space; he wanted to full it with 
a group that would cost $400 
(not $200—$400); CFP, Panhel, 
and Women’s Dorm Council 
had been' approached because 
Student Congresses had not ap­
propriated the money; of the 
three, Women’s DC had declined;
0 Men’s DC was asked for $125 
(not y4 of $200—$400). In other 
words, MDC decided it was not 
worthwhile in terms of the resi­
dents of the Men’s Dorms to 
spend $125 for a $200 an hour 
group to fill a space in the Fall 
Weekend schedule.
Now after making the Presi­
dents of the men’s dorm so 
many “bad guys” he puts a 
price on their heads. “Their cut 
of the dorm fee is (better than 
$5,000) . . .** Wrong twice — 
MDC does not get a “cut”, we 
take it all like the Black Barts, 
Hawkins makes us out to be 
Unfortunately (for him), it only 
amounts to about $3,600.
^ Then he goes on to say, “none 
of Council was (sic) ]sic[ partic 
ularly qualified to know the go­
ing prices for such musical 
groups hired on short notice.” Mr. 
Hawkins is right as sin again. 
There is “none” except three 
past vice-presidents who gave 
four parties last year which 
were the best these dorms have 
£ ever seen, “none” except the 
past president of that social 
council i.e., the incumbent Pres­
ident of Men’s Dormitory Coun­
cil, “none” except the incum­
bent treasurer who knows inti­
mately the “going prices.-”
Mr. Hawkins [sic] last accu­
sation is that MDC “did not 
want to go along with anything
the fraternities were doing.” To- 
sum up, it was nicely said that 
Men’s Dormitory Council voted 
out of cupidity, ignorance, and 
bigotry and that this was prob­
ably due to the fact that “this 
is the first year for a while in 
which the majority of the Coun­
cil have not been affiliated with 
any social fraternities.” I would 
like to say in my greedy, ig­
norant, intolerant, Black Bart 
way that all but one of the vot­
ing members is poorly described 
by majority and that that one, 
sir, was not present!
The purpose of Men’s Dormi­
tory Council as set forth in its 
constitution is — no matter how 
much money it has, no matter 
how much it is needed — to 
“consider and decide all mat­
ters pertaining to the welfare of 
the dormitory residents as a
whole.” MDC is not Student 
Congress, the United Fund, nor 
the Carnegie Foundation — 
neither does it pretend to be. 
MDC considered and made a de­
cision.
For smearing mud on our per­
sonal reputations based on al­
ledged [sic] rumor, on incom­
plete and erronous [sic] infor­
mation, on second or third hand 
accounts; Mr. Hawkins has pre­
sented himself, in my personal 
opinion, as the silliest blunder- 
booby out on a limb it has ever 
been my displeasure to twang.
Justin Polulack 
President 200’s 
Donnor [sic] Hall
Classfied Ads
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo. 
421-2083. Evenings.
opportunity:
Opportunity is built into a career at IBM— 
opportunity for training, education, financial 
rewards, and other benefits. I But especially 
opportunity to face the unique challenge of 
today’s—and tomorrow’s —information han­
dling problems. I
Ask your college placement officer for our bro­
chures. I Check with him for an appointment 
with the IBM representative who will be inter­
viewing on campus. I IBM is an Equal Oppor­
tunity Employer. I
If you cannot attend the interview, write: I
Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp., 
590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y. I
MOVE AHEAD: SEENOV. 18,1963
Did you know that Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory is 
operated by Caltech 
and is responsible for 
America's unmanned 
exploration of space?
Are you aware of 
the fact that JPL 
conceived the Mariner 
that went to Venus last 
year? Do you know that 
JPL has 150-acres of the 
finest space facilities with 
1300 scientists and 
engineers and almost 
three support people for 
every one of them? Did 
I tell you that I’ve signed 
up for an interview 
with the man from JPL?
JET PROPULSION LABORATORY4800 Oak Grove Drive 
Pasadena, California
"An equal opportunity employer."
Jet Propulsion laboratory is operated by th« 
California Institute of Technology for the 
Notional Aeronautics and Space Administration.
H nivmxty
Pitt Campus 
under Schenley Dormitories 
3939 Forbes Ave. Pgh. 13, Pa.
MU. 3-6757
tF -SDGiN 9FEUR;AU>N:B2;UDzUR 7wd 7r­q
-2FESTE .FA;URNAEH nISTUDUFE tOOATU O2R ^GG2AFEDUFE
SO WHAT 
IF HE LOOKS 
LIKE A 
MISSISSIPPI 
RIVER BOAT 
GAMBLER !
HE STILL 
HAS 
THE BEST 
SELECTION 
OF 
TIES 
IN TOWN !
t

---------------------------------------------------

(iLH JUFN0U 
CRALSHMN
Teacher Exams 
Begin in Feb. 
For Seniors
College seniors planning to 
teach school will be able to take 
the National Teacher Examina­
tions on. February 15, 1964. This 
date for the annual nationwide 
administration of tests for pros­
pective teachers was announced 
today by Educational Testing 
Service, a non-profit agency 
which also prepares College Board 
and graduate school admissions 
tests.
Scores on the National Teacher 
Examinations are used by many 
large school districts for employ­
ing new teachers, and by several 
States for granting teaching cer­
tificates or licenses. Some colleges 
require all seniors preparing to 
teach to take the tests Lists 
of school systems which use 
the examinations are being 
distributed by Educational Testing 
Service to colleges educating 
teachers.
More than 400 testing centers 
have been set up throughout the 
nation for the February 15 ex­
aminations. At the full-day ses­
sion, future teachers may take the 
Common Examination, testing 
their professional knowledge and 
general educational background, 
and one or two of the 13 Optional 
Examinations, measuring mastery 
of the subjects they expect to 
teach. Prospective teachers should 
contact the school systems in 
which they seek employment, or 
their colleges, for specific advice 
on taking the examinations, ac­
cording to Educational Testing 
Service.
Bulletins of Information con­
taining registration of the tests 
may be obtained from the Place­
ment Office or directly from:
National Teacher Examinations, 
Educational Testing Service, 
Princeton, N.J. Registration for 
the tests opens November 1, 1963, 
and close January 17, 1964.
Library Adds To 
Material Which 
May Be Copied
In adition to the material which 
can be copied by the Docustat 
Machine on the third floor of 
Hunt Library, previously men­
tioned in the Tartan, personal 
documents and non-library .ma­
terials, such as birth certificates, 
legal papers, or grade transcripts, 
may also be reproduced.
Fa«« C — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, October 3«, 1963
Busy Festival Weekend:
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: REGIS FILTZ
As an engineering associate, Regis Filtz (B.S.M.E., 1958) 
is involved in virtually all facets of telephone communica­
tions for Bell of Pennsylvania. From the design of under­
ground conduit to bridge cables, Regis is an expert.
Much of his reputation came about on his first assign­
ment, where his recommendations for the most economical 
underground cable resulted in savings estimated at $200,000 
annually.
Other assignments have included engineering require­
ments on a variety of communications equipment and
services. He has even taught a course in switching logic.
For Regis, the diversity of assignments has broadened 
his engineering knowledge and given him the opportunity 
to advance in position and compensation. His authority 
in catenary suspensions requires field engineers to consult 
with him in the design of such spans.
Regis Filtz, like many young engineers, is impatient 
to make things happen for his company and himself. There 
are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed 
or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
'iRAFV AFEURDANNA2F 2O OARNE SOEURF22F)N %SD NUNNA2Fd nSFWUI 
N0AE T2FERSNEUL aUTW 2O GSNEd GRUNUFEd SFL OiEiRU1
4iL SFL aRS;ANd nSTAOAT T2SNE O2I0 LiUEd 
DAvUL WiD2R SFL ViAESR ;AREi2NAEH AF OARNE 
FAVWE 2O CUNEA;SI NW2>N1UFEURESAFN LiRAFV 
J22EUFSFFH1

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 3«, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — V*gt 7
' Cheers, Hootenany ... And A Queen
-SGSTAEH TR2>L SE aUTW NESLAiD NS> aSRESFN LUOUSE Cjud qwe"g1
nWA “SGGS aWUES GIULVUN LANGISH EWUAR >AFFAFV TWUUR LiRAFV GUG RSIIH1
CSII CUNEA;SI —iUUFd *WURRA l2NNDSFd >SN 2OOATASIIH GRUNUFEUL 
LiRAFV WSIOeEADU NW2> 2O *SEiRLSHMN O22EzSII VSDU1
EE, ME, CHEM, MATH, and PHYSICS MAJORS, all degree levels: 
Laboratory staff members will be on campus to interview stu­
dents in the physical sciences and engineering 
Call your placement pffice for an appointment.
U.S. citizenship required. Equal opportunity employer.
LAVA/RBMGE
RADIATION LABORATORYLIVERMORE
OPERATED BY THE 
IM/EF0TY OF CALIFORNIA 
BERKELEYS LIVERMORE
NUCLEAR ENE¡RGY RESEARCH ATLAWRENCE R/iDIAHON LARORAIORY
LIVERMORE, CALIFORNIA
MAJOR PROGRAMd NOW SNDER WAY: PLOWSHARE—Industrial and scientific uses 
of nuclear explosives. WHITNEY—Nuclear weapons for national defense. SHER­
WOOD—Power production from controlled thermonuclear reactions. PLUTO — 
Nuclear reactor for propulsion of a ramjet missile. BIOMEDICAL—The effects of 
radioactivity on man and his environment...far-reaching programs utilizing the skills 
of virtually every scientific and technical discipline.
This high*resolution Mossbauer 
spectrometer, used to study nuclear 
properties and solid state phenom­
ena, is one of many research tools 
(ranging from the microminiature to 
the multi-ton) designed and built by 
LRL scientists and engineers. The 
spectrometer has less than 2% ve­
locity jitter over a speed range of 100. 
The functions of the spectrometer 
are automated so that the resonant 
absorptions for 160 positive and neg­
ative velocities are obtained in a 
normal run. Data obtained from 
print-out scalars are processed and 
plotted by electronic computers.
detector 
absorber holder 
source holder 
slide assembly 
floating concrete block 
lead-screw assembly
transmission 
control
fiber glass 
insulation
heater control 
heater
gate and control 
microswitch signals
coil springs 
reversing assembly 
variable transmission
Magnetic hyperfine splitting of the FeS714-keV 
transition for a 7 atom percent iron-in-gold 
solid solution at 4.2”K.
—1 VELOCITY (mm/sec)
-8-7-6 5-4-3-2-1 O 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8__I__i i_________________________i___I_________I_________i i i i i i_i i_i i »

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, October 30, 1963
Studying At 
Detroit School
oURSILAFU JAII
Geraldine Hill, a Carnegie Tech 
senior in Home Economics is 
presently studying at the Merrill- 
Palmer Institute in Detroit, Mich­
igan. She will complete a study 
of one semester there and re­
ceive full credit from Carnegie 
Tech.
The Merrill-Palmer Institute is 
a collegiate institution for the 
study of human growth and de­
velopment, family life, and com­
munity organization. Selected un­
dergraduate students in sociology, 
psychology, education, home eco­
nomics, and related fields spend a 
quarter of a semester of study 
at the Institute during their jun­
ior or senior year of college. 
About 65 colleges and universi­
ties throughout the country are 
represented.
Topic: Who Is 
A Christian?
Friday at 7:00 p.m. in Wher- 
rett Room, Dr. Garman, pastor of 
the Callender Memorial Church 
in Wilkinsburg, will speak on the 
topic “Who is a Christian?” Dr. 
Garman is president of the As­
sociation of Gospel Churches and 
chairman of the Commission 
which selects chaplains for the 
Armed Services. He has also been 
on tours of investigation for the 
Secretary of Defense and for the 
Air Force Chief of Staff. Tech 
Christian Fellowship invites in­
terested students and faculty 
members to attend.
Dean Expands 
Job Aid Service
In order to give fuller, more 
effective service to students who 
need part-time work, the Dean 
of Student Affairs plans to ex­
pand and improve activities in 
this area. Thus, it is planned to 
develop a list of part-time em­
ployment opportunities on the 
Carnegie Tech campus as well 
as selected positions off-campus. 
In addition, a card file will be 
maintained for students who seek 
employment. Members of the fac­
ulty and administration who need 
student help and students want­
ing work are urged to register 
with Mr. Jones in the Office of 
the Dean of Men, AH-150, Ext. 
230 or 312.
Positions not filled by coordina­
tion of jobs available with stu­
dents available will still be post­
ed on the bulletin board opposite 
AH-154. Girls interested in baby­
sitting should continue to list 
their names at the Main Desk, 
Morewood Gardens or to see Mr. 
Jones personally regarding more 
permanent positions.
Your Man 
In Congress
This Wednesday’s meeting began with the reading of the 
executive council’s minutes, which included a request from 
Publications that the free desk blotters distributed by an 
enterpreneur off campus be prohibited, as they are stealing 
much off campus advertising from our publications. Execu­
tive council refused to take any action in this matter. It is 
doubtful that any effective action could be taken anyway, 
so, this was a somewhat constructive step — if passively so. 
Executive Council did state that if any publication would 
itself publish this desk blotter they would support this effort.
The chair read the official school policy on drinking to 
the assembled congress. It “remains unchanged from past 
years,” the chief executive position in each fraternity house 
must be held by a person not less than 21 years old. The 
school does “expect that we will all conform to the law.” This 
article is being written on Sunday, October 27. It is quite ob­
vious that the law has not been observed. The fact that I can 
write this with impunity, is a poignant commentary on the 
state of affairs that existed last night, and the State Legisla­
ture which will pass such a measure that can only be sneered 
at as “idealistic.” The assembled congress heard the state­
ment with polite, and bored, interest. Maybe if Congress 
would pay some attention to the administration, it would 
receive some in turn. Such things have been known to hap­
pen.
Committee reports: The Fall Festival Committee report­
ed that the torch light parade and bonfire had been cancelled 
due to dryness; the Finance Committee asks all activities to 
fill in Budget Sheets by Nov. 15, and Publicity is out sabotag­
ing Bulletin Boards. The Long-discussed-All-Campus Elec- 
tion-of-Congress-Chairman Amendment was defeated with­
out discussion. This is understandable — everyone has heard 
of little else since last May when it was introduced, and Con­
gress is rather tired of all the issues. And a few enthusiastic 
fraternity blocs are better in the wearilv-long run, than an 
apathetic 13% of the campus.
Let old Andy turn over in his grave, however; next year’s 
freshmen should be taught “My heart is in the moola”. For 
the 3rd year in a row Military Ball has been defeated as an 
all-school event, because a civilian ticket costs $3. But then 
again, Andy Was a Scotchman. Maybe he’s resting quietly.
Butch Davis presented a motion requiring all recognized 
activities to submit Financial Reports to Congress, since it 
must subsidize those which go into debt. A strange grinding 
noise was noticed as Fraternity men and Sorority women 
visualized the results of such a move. The discussion became 
genuinely animated. Greeks do answer to their nationals in 
cases like this; but these matters, it was felt, are for their 
eyes alone. In an amended form Fraternities, Sororities, Dorm 
Councils, Panhel and CFP are exempt, the Motion passed.
Committees are growing fast and meetings are coming 
up. If Congress is to be the sounding board of its committees, 
it is doing well. There is room for more, however, and another 
exciting episode of Congress ’63 will be held next Nov. 6.
—Martha Hodgson
-1)
New Research Facility of General Precision 
Aerospace at Little Falls, N. /. has own Astrodome
A Message Ta Dactaral Candidates in dcience or Engineering
RESEARCH CENTER APPOINTMENTS
The areas of research are broad at General Precision Aerospace. This organization, whose primary interests 
are in navigation, guidance & control and stellar-inertial guidance is actively engaged today in developing 
new concepts for complete space vehicles and missile systems.
The company regards the wide diversity of the Center’s fundamental and applied research programs 
as the foundation upon which much of its future progress depends —and supports it accordingly. Scientists 
and engineers here have the most modern research equipments at their disposal. They associate closely 
With prominent basic and applied research scientists from many fields. They also benefit from cross-fertili­
zation of ideas with the systems engineers and product designers who must make practical application of new 
technological knowledge. Contacts are maintained with a notable panel of consultants outside the company.
The following areas of investigation now require staff scientists at the Doctoral level and present tha. 
opportunity to work with noted principal scientists in these disciplines:
AEROSPACE ENVIRONMENTS. Study natural phenomena In 
Order to provide a more perfect understanding 6f environmental 
boundaries of space systems. Astronomical Coordinate Systems • 
Planets and Satellites • Earth-Moon Systems • Celestial Dynamics
* N-Body Problems • Sun and Interplanetary Space Problems.
PHYSICS. Materials research pertaining to solid state fluid, mag­
netic and dielectric materials • Physical and Chemical Structures • 
Photo Conductivity • Illumination and Light • Solid State Theory
* Crystal Physics • Optics • Thin Films.
METALLURGY. Research programs on metallurgical properties 
of modern materials — function wear, defect propagation and 
inelasticity • Physical Metallurgy • Alloy Development • Metal 
Joining • Chemical Metallurgy • Metal Science • Refractories • 
^Vnelastic Materials • Ceramics and Thin Film Technology.
DIVERSE PROGRAMS IN CHEMISTRY. Develop and extern^ 
range and application of Organic Materials. Work in Photo-chem-j 
istry... Physical Chemistry... High Temperature Effects... Fluids.
• Lubricants • Also study Inorganic Chemistry of Films... Semi-j 
conductors ... Hydrides and Silicones ... Electroluminescent 
Materials.
MATHEMATICS. Provide understanding of non-linear dynamical 
systems • Stability and Control Theory • Analytical Celestial 
Mechanics • Discrete Mathematics, and Computation.
GUIDANCE AND NAVIGATION. Terrestrial and celestial stud­
ies to develop a broader comprehension of the needs of futurs 
systems. Characteristics and Restraints of Gyro-compasses • Ver­
tical Gyros • Inertial Navigation • Astrometrical Considerations 
Star Tracking Information for Correction.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 13,1963
Make an appointment now with your Placement Director, pr write to Mr. Robert Storz,;
CENERAI PRECISION. INC.
KEARFOTT DIVISION 
GPL DIVISION 
SYSTEMS DIVISION 
RESEARCH CENTER
1150 McBride Avenue, Little Falls, New Jersey,’ 
jAn Equal Opportunity Employe»:
$
to

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page S
BILL HELLERS "WEINSTEIN'S"
HAS DORM DELIVERY
lp*a^.l^Ba 4^“plc Y 'p,9-^ap**pB
3708 FORBES AVE.
FR AtO tFlar ks Us .Ss ..s .e 
OnOad OnORcRz OpqOLA ua.Es ChAE
MINIMUM ORDER $3.00
CALL 682-7752 - FOR MENU
We'll Be Happy to Mail tFU
*33000
Special College Time Payments Available
OUR DIAMONDSCOPE: Each diamond is 
gem tested and registered as to color, cut­
ting, clarity and carat weight for your 
protection. No doubt your great, great 
Grandmother’s Diamond came from 
Roberts.
John M. Roberts & Son Co.
Y q *E2RUN Y
Downtown Easl Hills Mf. Lebanon
g"r P22L *E1 *W2GGAFV -UFEUR BUvE E2 J2RFUMN 
.....................................
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
1 Tech Soundly Trounces F&M; 
Delights Fall Festival Crowd
We allmake mi stake*...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special sur­
face of this paper makes it possible to erase without a 
trace—with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: clean- 
looking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down 
at the keyboard, make no mistake — type on Corrasable!
Your choice of Corrasable in 
light, medium, heavy weights and 
Onion Skin. In handy 100- 
»heet packets and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
Corrasable.
^ Berkshire Typewriter Paper
By Ronald Bidula
The Tech Tartans combined 
hustle, rugged determination, and 
a stellar performance by senior 
, halfback A1 Abels to easily de- 
** feat the Diplomats of Franklin 
and Marshall last Saturday at 
Tech Field. The 35-24 score de­
lighted a spirited Fall Festival 
crowd and ended a seven game 
Tech losing streak against the 
s&me team which the Tartans last 
defeated.
After already having traded 
punts with F&M once, Tech 
forced another F&M punt mid­
day in the first quarter and gained 
the ball on theifi own 24. The 
Tartans then stunned a new F&M 
platoon with a lightning fast 
naked double reverse, Hechler to 
Abels to Black; five blockers es­
corted Jim across to play dirt for 
the first score of the game. Wiz 
converted and CIT led 7-0 with 
6:26 left in the quarter.
After four quick plays, F&M 
punted into the Tech endzone and 
the mighty Tartans were on the 
move again. Tech drove to the 
enemy’s 25 yard line in a drive 
featured by two jaunts of 19 and - 
11 yards by Abels and an 11 yard 
run by the Wiz. After some ques­
tionable officiating, a Tech clip, 
and two long losses in the back- 
field, however, the drive died on 
F&M’s 35.
[continued on page 111
• Mr, Witt
. buttons down the news 
with Giveaway, 
• horizontal stretch nylon* 
and cotton 
that takes to action 
while it keeps its 
tapered good looks.
GaLowey
1407 BROADWAY. NEW YORK 18, N. Y.
A Division of Burlington Industries
CM EM4TRAND STHETCH NYLON

---------------------------------------------------

Tech’s much improved field 
hockey team met Chatham Col­
lege in the Tech Bowl Tuesday, 
October 22, 1963. Chatham scored 
the only goal of the game during 
the first half — a hard, well 
placed drive from the edge of the 
striking circle.
Although Tech dominated the 
second half, the team failed to 
score. The one time Tech scored 
was nulified by a foul committed 
by Chatham. A penalty comer 
was awarded the Tech eleven, but 
the advantage had been lost.
The team attained its first vic­
tory against Pitt by the score of 
5-2, Thursday, October 24. At 
present Tech has one win and two 
losses. Barb Johnson led the scor­
ing with three goals, and Edie 
Mills, left inner, followed with 
two. All were well-placed drives 
into the goal cage.
© 
READY
for a Volkswagen? The re­
quirements are simple enough 
for any intelligent motorist who 
puts the emphasis on efficient 
operation, low gas consump­
tion, low price when new, and 
high resale value. A VW is re­
liable in all kinds of weather; 
it brings fun back to driving 
and ease to parking. Are YOU 
ready for your Volkswagen? 
Go to M. W. Motors — Pitts­
burgh’s leading Factory Au­
thorized Volkewagen Dealer.
a2 day's Best Buy 
'56 mP -tBmpla94,p 
/yrw
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
Grads "A" Win Ball; 
ATO Bitter in Third
Page 10 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, October 30, 1963
By Scott McCormick
Tuesday afternoon about 
seventy- five non-partisan specta­
tors lined one side of the intra­
mural football field to watch a 
one-sided game between the Grad 
Eagles and the Grad Eagles for 
the Intramural Football Cham­
pionship.
To be specinc, the game was 
between the Grad Eagles “A” and 
the Grad Eagles “B”. To be more 
specific, this contest wasn’t much 
of a game at all, it was more like 
an outing to see how badly the 
“A” squad would beat the “B”. 
The final score was 40-7 and this 
pretty faily indicates the differ­
ence in the two teams.
One thing must be said, though: 
both teams were kept busy. Cosof- 
sky and Crotty from the “A” 
team were busy chasing the “B” 
teams quarterback all over his 
backfield while the “B’s” half 
backs were busy picking them­
selves up from the ground. Bob 
Murphy was busy throwing 
touchdown passes while the “B’s” 
secondary was busy staying two 
steps behind the “A” team re­
ceivers. The “A’s” secondary was 
busy intercepting passes and the 
“B” receivers were busy chasing 
them after the interception. Tom 
Ference was busy teeing up the 
ball for kickoffs while the rest 
of the “A” team took turns kick­
ing the ball. Last of all, the score- 
keeper was busy chalking up 
points for the Grad Eagles “A”.
The game played the day be­
fore for third place was more like 
the hard play that typifies intra­
mural football on this campus. 
The difference in score was about 
the same, with ATO defeating 
BTP 47-17, but both teams played 
hard, rugged football right down 
until the last whistle. The Betas 
were hurting, playing without the 
services of Lee Collins, their 
quarterback. But the disciplined 
ATO pass patterns were too much 
for the Beta’s defensive halfbacks 
and even with Collins BTP could 
not have stayed with ATO. ATO 
mixed their plays well and the 
Bestas just could not keep up 
with Jim Hagarman, Joe Sheld- 
rick, and Pete McKay, the ATO 
receivers. Hagerman and Sheld- 
rick accounted for five TD’s be­
tween them.
The third place taken by ATO 
was somewhat of a bitter victory. 
They had beaten the Grad Eagles 
“B” in regular season play by 
over three touchdowns. But the 
luck of the draw, or rather the 
poor seeding at the beginning of 
the season set ATO against the 
Grad Eagles “A” in the semi­
finals, preventing ATO the chance 
at the second place that they 
should have had instead of the 
Grads “B”.
Greet the shirt with an Oxford education
by -ARROW*-
Any scholar will appreciate 
this new Decton oxford 
shirt...the latest graduate 
to the world of wash-and- 
\ ear by ARROW. A blend of 
65% Dacron* polyester and 
35% cotton... it outlasts 
all cotton shirts. From 
that famous button-down 
collar to the back button and 
back pleat, it’s University 
Fashion at its best. 
Tapered to trim you down, 
“Sanforized-Plus” labeled to 
ensure a lasting fit, Decton 
oxford comes in white, 
colors and British stripes. 
Short sleeves as illustrated 
only $5.95
•DuPont T.M. for it$ polyester fiber
Chatham Wins 
Over Tech In
Field Hockey
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP 
BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS
Shown: 1964 Ford Galaxie 500/XL two-door hardtop
lUNiIE: ^II qeNGUUL DSFiSI 
ERSFNDANNA2FN AF 
C2RLeziAIE TSRN >AEW mey)N 
F2> SRU OiIIH NHFTWR2FAKUL 
USTW O2R>SRL VUSR
get more “goM in low, Ford engineers 
were asked to upgrade the conventional 
3-speed transmission to give drivers 
more control in all three forward gears— 
make "low” a driving gear—and they 
tackled the problem imaginatively.
Their achievement, another Ford First, 
is the only U.S. 3-speed manual trans­
mission with all three forward gears 
fully synchronized! No need now to come 
to a complete stop when you shift into 
low—and no clashing gears! It lets you 
keep more torque on tap for negotiating 
sharp turns and steep grades. It makes 
driving more flexible, more pleasurable.
Another assignment completed and 
another example of how engineering 
leadership at Ford provides fresh ideas 
for the American Road.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 11
First Win Stirs Spirit; 
Tech Ready For W&J
Heed the still, small voice of conscience
Call home now! It’s easy, it's inexpensive, and the 
folks’ll love you for it!
*.nplm9*tl -t,,pop lp,^a9tB*»npl*tBBp, 'pn^laupBa
HamiltonStandard
DIVISION OPUnitedfìircraft
P9B'*tl ,t-“*d -tBBp-a9-.a
An Equal Opportunity Employer
For Interview see your placement officer, or write:
-R2NNeT2iFERH RiFFURN VS;U aUTW SF2EWUR ;ATE2RH O2R CSII CUNEA;SI
Cross Country Again Victorious; 
Shuts Out Geneva and St. Francis
Two more cross country oppo­
nents bit the cinders as the Tech 
Harriers shut out both Geneva 
and St. Francis last Saturday 
during 15-50 on the Schenley Park 
course. In both matches the 12 
man Tartan squad took the first 
eleven places as they posted their 
fourteenth and fifteenth straight 
victories over the past two sea­
sons.
Geneva’s Golden Tornado’s beat 
Carnsgie two years ago, but it 
wasn’t the same team running 
Wednesday. Tech freshman Harry 
Burkholder took first in 24 min­
utes 10 seconds. Tom Bednarz and 
Christ Macosko tied for second 45 
seconds later. They were followed 
in by Andy Niedra, George Craw­
ford, Mike Engle, Herb D’Alo, 
Paul Fackler, Ken Phillips, Chuck 
Bounds, Dave Simons, and then 
the Geneva Tornados.
Against the St. Francis Friars 
it was same song second verse at
a little slower tempo. This time 
unbeaten Burkholder took first in 
24:58. Niedra and Macosko fol­
lowed at 25:29. D’Alo beat out 
Bednarz and Engle for fourth. 
Fackler, Crawford, Bounds, Phil­
lips, Simons and several Friars 
followed. The effect of Friday 
night Fall Festival activities may 
have had an effect on some Sat­
urday morning performances.
Times this season have been 
good despite the weather. Tech’s 
distance runners seem to like a 
brisk, often even a drizzling, Sat­
urday morning to perform at their 
best. They may run harder to keep 
warm, but this month’s 80° tem­
peratures haven’t been welcomed. 
And the lack of rain has turned 
parts of the course concrete hard. 
Despite these disadvantages Burk­
holder has been hitting under 24 
minutes, a time that would place 
on any team. Macosko hit 24:24.
This afternoon the Harriers 
travel to Waynesburg to meet the 
home team and St. Vincent. Sat­
urday is the highly rated contest 
with Westminster on Westmin­
ster’s flat course. The Tartans, 
trained for their Schenley hills, 
may find road running rough to 
handle. Then next Monday at 4:30 
they close out their home meets 
against Duquesne.
[continued from page 9] ;
The visitors’ tight wing-T began 
to click early in the second quar­
ter. After Tech failed to capital­
ize on an F&M fumble, the Diplo­
mats took a CIT punt back to 
their own 23. On the next play 
end Larry Graham cut across 
Tech’s secondary to snag Russell’s 
pass and go all the way for the 
score. After the two point con­
version, F&M led 8-7 with 12:52 
left. After punting, Tech’s stub­
born defense stopped a drive to 
their 19. On the next play, how­
ever, Gilchrist fumbled a handoff 
and F&M had the ball on the CIT 
15. Two quick passes and a two 
point conversion gave F&M a 16-7 
lead with 4:06 left in the half.
A1 Abels would have nothing 
of this! After returning the kick- 
off 29 yards and catching two 
passes, he skirited left end to the 
F&M 4 and then took a pass from 
Wis for the TD. Tech’s conver­
sion and a subsequent onside kick 
both failed. Linsey Sargent then 
stole an enemy pass and three 
plays later Jim Black took a per­
fect aerial from D’Appolonia over 
for 6 points. With 5 seconds left. 
CIT converted and led 20-16 at the 
half.
The half-time show was in tune 
with the festive of the crowd. 
After being entertained by the 
blue blazer-white straw hat at­
tired F&M band, the crowd lis­
tened as the Kiltie band told them 
“There Is Nothing Like A Dame.” 
The fans certainly had no doubts 
about this, as the Fall Festival 
Queen and her Court had just cir­
cled the field in a sleek converti­
ble.
The CIT football team, how­
ever, knew only that they wanted 
to annihilate F&M. After the 
opening kickoff Tech dazzled 
their opponents for ten plays as 
double fakes, reverses, and pitch- 
outs carried the Tartans to the 
Diplomats’ 5. The crowd moaned 
and Coach Gasparella dropped his 
notes on the next play, however, 
as Abels fumbled and F&M re­
covered on their own 4. Tech 
? bounced back and forced a poor 
; punt to the F&M 38. After going 
26 yards in two plays on a pass 
! and a run, Abels took the ball a 
third time over right tackle for 
i the score. Wis again converted 
and Tech led 27-16 with 4:18 
| left in the quarter.
| Frosh Bill Patula pounced on a 
F&M fumble as the third quar- 
! ter ended and CIT opened the last 
1 period by rolling 53 yards in 8 
plays for their final score. Hard 
running by Abels and Gilchrist 
paid off with 10:43 left as Hechler 
bootlegged around left end for the 
score. Wis iced the CIT cake as 
he smashed over left guard for 
the two point conversion and 
Tech led 35-16. Both defenses 
then stiffened and no serious 
threats materialized till the last 
10 seconds of the game. The be­
nevolent Tech subs let the poor, 
downtrodden Diplomats score on 
a 45 yard Russell to Collins pass 
with 8 seconds left. F&M passed 
for the conversion and then re­
tired to the locker room like good 
Christians while the CIT lions 
carried Emperor Gasparella out 
of the coliseum. “It’s about time 
we won,” growled one of the lions 
in his cage after the game. Rumor 
has it that souffle a la W&J is 
very tasty.
Aerodynamics 
Combustion 
Compressible Flow 
Control Dynamics 
Digital Computation 
Analog Computation 
EDP Systems/Procedures 
Electronics 
Electron Optics 
Fluid Dynamics 
Heat Transfer 
Hydraulics 
Instrumentation 
Internal Aerodynamics 
Kinematics 
Magnetic Circuitry 
Mechanical Metallurgy 
Mechanics 
Metallurgy 
Physical Chemistry 
Physics 
Quality Control 
Reliability 
Servomechanisms 
Statistical Analysis 
Structures 
Systems Analysis 
Thermodynamics 
Thermoelectricity 
Too! Engineering 
Transistor Circuitry 
Vehicular Dynamics 
Vibration
Hamilton United
DIVISION OFStandard Aircraft
On Campus for Interviews
Wednesday, November 6
OPENINGS FOR BS, MS 
ENGINEERS and SCIENTISTS
• Mechanical• Aeronautical
• Engineering Physics• Applied Mechanics• Industrial Engineering• Electrical
• Metallurgical
• Engineering Mechanics• Physics
AREAS OF APPLICATION
Space and Life Support Systems 
Engine and Afterburner Controls 
Air Induction Control Systems 
Advanced Lightweight Propellers 
Electron Beam Industrial Machines 
Ground Support Equipment 
Electronic Control Systems 
Overhaul and Repair Programs 
Bio Science Studies 
Industrial Valves

---------------------------------------------------

PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, 
Hempstead, Long Island, New York.
lAJefcome Students
1 HOUR DRY CLEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
Campus Cleaners
One Block from Morewood Ave.
Open Daily from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
GATEWAY RECORDINGS INC, oymWmvTW
Live recording session in concert 
storring the internationally acclaimed
CHARLES BELL 
CONTEMPORARY JAZZ TRIO
Saturday, November 9 — 8:30 p.m. 
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL
Tickets $1.75 — $2.00 night of session
Price Includes Coupon For Free Concert Recording 
Redeemable At Any National Record Mart
Tickets on Sale at All National Record Romakins Record Marts. 
Tickets can be purchased on campus from Mary Neuhauser,
2D M.G.
f*
Page 12 —- CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. October SO, 1963
LEARN TO BOX!!
Steeler-Browns All-Star Champs; 
Defeat Giant-Eagles Squad 26-14
Be a master in the art of self-defense.
Expert trainers’ secrets can be yours !
No equipment needed. Form a campus boxing 
club among your friends for fun, self-confidence 
and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and 
lessons One Dollar. Send to:
Visitors to the Tech campus last
week-end were treated to one of
the finest displays of intramural 
football played in the program 
this year, as the annual All Star 
Game was won by the Steeler- 
Brown squad 26-14. With a nu­
cleus of players from the Grads 
“A,” BTP, SAE, PKT, DU, and 
DTD, they used the throwing arm 
of their Grad Eagle quarterback 
Bob Murphy to score against their 
Eagle-Giant counterparts compos­
ed of standouts from ATO, TDP, 
Sigma Nu, the Dorms, and the 
Trojans.
The Steeler-Browns won the 
toss and elected to receive. Mur­
phy took TDP John Borofsky’s 
kick in his own end-zone and re­
turned it to the twenty. Two 
passes to DU’s Jon Pavlik were 
good for a first down, and then 
Murphy dropped into the pocket 
and hit Jack Limberg from BTP 
for the score. ATO’s Steve Joels 
returned the ensuing kickoff to 
the fifteen, and then hit ATO Pete 
McKay for the first down. His 
next pass, however intended for 
Sigma Nu’s Andy Logan, was 
alertly picked off by SAE’s Doug 
C ran well, and the Steeler-Browns 
were in possession again.
Murphy completed another long 
pass to Pavlik for one first down, 
and then hit his regular-season 
end Jored Kosofsky for another, 
before the Eagle-Giant defense 
stiffened and the quarter ended 
with the Steeler-Browns leading 
8-1. With Sigma Nu’s John Blue in 
at quarterback for the Eagle-Giant 
squad, they picked up a quick 
first down on a pass to Borofsky. 
Blue’s next offering was inter­
cepted by Cranwell and the Steel­
er-Browns took over at mid-field. 
On the first play Murphy found 
DTD center Joe Bair all alone, 
and Bair covered the remaining 
yardage for the TD.
Joels came back in to run the 
Eagle-Giant offense, and sparked 
his team to paydirt. A pass to 
McKay was good for a first down, 
and after a toss to Borofsky left 
the ball on the ten, the shifty 
quarterback hit McKay in the 
end-zone for the score. KS Jack 
School intercepted a Murphy pass, 
but the Steeler-Browns’ defense 
stiffened against John Blue and 
they took over 16 yards from pay­
dirt. Murphy passed to Limberg at 
the ten, and then hit Beta Jack 
Grosho for the score as the half 
ended with the Steeler-Browns 
leading 18-8. A pass to Borofsky 
was good for a first down, and
“2N2ON0H VRADIH TWSNUN C2UIN1
after a pass to the Dorms' John
Blue returned to action in the 
third period to direct an Eagle- 
Giant drive which resulted in a 
Tivengood put the ball on the sev­
en, Blue hit Logan in the end-zone 
for the tally. Murphy hit Pavlik 
for another first down, but found 
his running game throttled by the 
rushing of ATO Tom Kline, and 
the Eagle-Giants took over on 
their own ten-yard line as the 
quarter ended 19-14.
After an exchange of downs, 
the Steeler-Browns defense stiff­
ened and they took over on their 
own five yard line. A Murphy 
pass to Bair was good for twenty 
yards and a first down, and after 
a pass to Limbug put the ball on
the twenty, Murphy hit him again 
for the score. The Eagle-Giants 
were forced to punt, but then their 
defense held, and they recovered 
a fumble on the Steeler-Browns 
three. Blue returned to the Eagle- 
Giant line-up, but his first pass 
was alertly picked off by PKT’s 
Larry Lang to end the final Eagle- 
Giant threat.
Both teams were evenly-match­
ed, and the deciding factor in the 
game may well have been the 
hard, consistent rush put on the 
Eagle-Giant quarterbacks by Grad 
Eagles Kosofsky and Bob Crotty. 
It was a well-played game on the 
part of both sides, and all agreed 
it was an excellent beginning for 
the 1963 Fall-Festival week-end.
II hut Do You Think?
LImHWm fiII ouT Thm foIIowivg Foiviov LoII Hvd dmooWiT ThiW WIio iv Hvy 66Foiviov LoIIUU ymcmoTHcImW 
IocHTmd iv hts Ots Hvd MM TodHy oy Tomoyyow moyvivg. amWuITW wiII bm oubIiWhmd iv Thm AhaAhRE
MALE()FRATERNITY ORJUNIOR()
FEMALE()SORORITY MEMBER()SENIOR()
COMMUTOR()FRESHMAN()GRADUATE<)
DORM()SOPHOMORE()FACULTY()
1. Should Tech give athletic scholarships.
Yes ( ) No ( )
2. Do you feel the administration gives sufficient support
to the team? Yes ( ) No ( )
3. Do you think the library should open earlier and stay
open later on Sundays? Yes ( ) No ( )
4. Should Morewood women be allowed to live off
campus? Yes ( ) No ( )
5. Do you think Fraternities play a positive role on
campus? Yes ( ) No ( ) Don’t know ( )
Sororities? Yes ( ) No ( ) Don’t know ( )
6. Do you think that the student body has sufficient repre-
sentation in Student Government.? Yes ( ) No ( )
7. Should Tech have a humor magazine?Yes ( ) No ( )
8. Should sororities have houses? Yes ( ) No ( )
9. Do you think your dormitory facilities are adequate? 
(Answer only if you are a dorm resident)Yes ( ) No ( )
10. Do you think parking meters are necessary?Yes ( ) No ( )
11. Do you think student activities receive sufficient publi­
city in the TARTAN? Yes ( ) No ( )
12. Should we have an activities fee to insure sufficient
funds for the procurement of “Big Names” during ‘*Big 
Weekends”? Yes ( ) No ( )
13. Do you think adequate parking facilities are available 
for commutors?Yes ( ) No ( ) Don’t know ( )
14. Are you planning to attend classes the Friday after
Thanksgiving? Yes ( ) No ( )
15. Are the restrictions imposed on Morewood women (late 
hours, no slacks at dinner, etc.)lax? ( ) adequate? ( ) harsh? ( )
