Tuition Raised To $1950
A tuition increase from the present $1700 per year to $1950 per 
year, effective in the 1967-68 academic year has been announced by 
President H. Guyford Stever.
In a letter written to students, parents, and friends of Carnegie 
Tech, Dr. Stever cited the university’s need to remain academically com­
petitive as the most pressing reason dictating the increase at this time.
“This decision results from a careful examination of rising costs 
of high quality education and reaffirmation of our determination not 
to incur budget deficits,” Dr. Stever said. “At the same time,” he con­
tinued, “the Board of Trustees has decided that steps must be taken 
to increase scholarship resources to maintain at least the same pro­
portional level of student aid as is available this year, and as- soon as 
possible, to improve this level.”
Currently, about thirty percent of Carnegie’s fulltime undergraduates, 
ates, and almost all of its graduate students receive financial aid in 
and almost all of its graduate students receive financial aid in some form. 
In addition, according to Mr. Peter H. Nachtwey, director of financial aid, 
no sophomore, junior, or senior, is denied financial aid if he meets need and 
academic requirements. ______
“I regret that the decision to increase tuition has been inescapable.” 
Dr. Stever continued. “Our determination to provide the highest quality 
edccation possible requires more funds for faculty salaries, for innovations 
in curricuFa and teaching, and for other student-related activities. Our 
most careful projections indicate that operating expenses will continue to 
increase in the foreseeable future. Income must keep pace,” he concluded.
Carnegie Tech’s planned tuition of $1950 per year is about the 
same or a little less than comparable institutions. Income from tuition 
continues to pay for a little more than 50 percent of the direct cost 
of education, and considerably less if capital and other long term im­
provements are included. The remainder of Tech’s revenue comes from 
gifts, grants, and income from endowment, all of which continues 
to increase each year. Financial aid is provided to Tech students through 
scholarships, grants-in-aid, loans, and part-time employment.
“We have placed high priority on a plan to develop further our
student aid toward the goal that no qualified student will be denied a
Carnegie education because of financial need,” Dr. Stever told the stu­
dents, parents, and friends in the conclusion of his letter.
Campus Chest Seeks 
Donations For Charity
One hundred ten student volunteers are looking for 
contributions to the annual Campus Chest Drive this week 
at Tech. The Campus Chest Fund, an independent branch 
of student government, is the only charity which solicits 
funds at the school.
This year, money collected 
by Campus Chest will go to 
three charitable causes: the 
World Service, the National 
Scholarship Service and Fund 
for Negro students, and the 
Carnegie Tech Students’ Schol­
arship. A patron of the drive 
may specify on his contribu­
tion envelop which agency he 
wants to receive his donation.
The World University Serv­
ice works primarily in the back­
ward areas of Africa, Asia, and 
Latin America to provide sorely 
needed facilities for universities. 
WUS will use donations “to move 
students out of pest-hole living 
quarters into adequate dorms, op­
erate health clinics, and provide 
scholarships to keep students in 
school.”
National Scholarship Service 
and Fund for Negro Students is 
a counseling agency which helps 
promising Negro students select 
and gain admission to colleges 
all over the country. The Agency 
also gives small sustaining schol­
arships to supplement the in­
come of needy students.
The Carnegie Tech Students’ 
Scholarship will be given to a 
needy Tech upperclassman who 
(Continued on Page 6)
CFP Sets New Policy 
For Scholastic Probation
Through the Council of Fraternity Presidents, repre­
sentatives of Tech’s twelve fraternities have decided on a 
new scholastic probation policy.
The new policy requires that
Teller, Stever Speak 
At Nuclear Forum
Dr. Edward Teller, internationally known nuclear physi­
cist, and Dr. H. Guyford Stever, president of Carnegie Tech, 
will be among four featured speakers who will consider 
questions of the future in a nuclear world. The speeches 
comprise part of the American Assembly in Pittsburgh to 
be held in Skibo tomorrow through Saturday. Although the 
events are closed to the public, the proceedings will be re­
ported in the Tartan when they are made available.
Dr. Stover’s opening address 
will serve as dicussion material 
for the 75 Tri-State businessman, 
educators, and scientists partici­
pating in the Assembly. Current­
ly a member of the Defense Sci­
ence Board which advises the 
U. S. House of Representatives 
Committee on Science and As­
tronautics, Dr. Stever is also
chairman of the Scientific Advi­
sory Board of the Air Force Chief 
of Staff and has served on the 
guided missiles committee of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Prior to Dr. Teller’s Friday 
speech, Lt. Gen. Harold G. Don­
nelly, director of the Defense 
Atomic Support Agency, and Ar-
Bed Checks Begin 
In Colonial Manor
Spontaneous bed checks are being instituted in the Co­
lonial Manor apartments to crack down on sophomore cur­
few violators. The move was proposed by Judicial Council 
of the Association of Women Students and approved at a 
special meeting of Judicial Council and Colonial Manor resi­
dents Monday night.
Dr. H. Guyford Stever
Sophomore women who are not 
in the dorm by curfew time will 
forfeit their places in the honor 
housing unit and will be moved 
into More wood Gardens. The bed 
checks will be announced. They 
will be made by anonymous 
sophomore residents of Colonial 
Manor.
Colonial Manor was originally 
meant to house junior and sen­
ior women who have no curfews. 
Not enough upperclass applica­
tions for Colonial Manor were 
received last spring »however, so 
sophomores were permitted to 
occupy the north wing.
These sophomores are subject 
to standard curfew regulations. 
But Colonial Manor operates on 
the honor system—there are no 
housemothers or faculty resi­
dents, and girls “sign out” and 
“sign in” by phoning the desk 
in the Morewood lobby.
Pat Bowman, chairman of Ju­
dicial Council, says, “Too many 
girls have been taking advan- 
(Continued on Page 4)
each fraternity’s house average 
be no less than 0.40 below all 
men’s average. House average is 
determined by the total quality 
points of all members divided 
by the total number of units.
The first semester a frater­
nity falls below this limit, it is 
placed on probation by CFP. This 
limits it to 2 parties per month 
for the ensuing semester.
The second consecutive infrac­
tion results in suspension of all 
parties during the following se­
mester. The new policy is retro­
active to last semester’s grade 
standings.
CFP’s old scholarship policy 
specified a minimum of 0.1 be­
low all men’s or all fraternities’ 
average, whichever was lower. 
The previous penalty was a re­
striction to 4 parties per month 
for the 1st offense, and a re­
duction to 3 parties, 2 parties, 
etc. for recurring offenses.
Techs administration places 
no scholastic limitations on fra­
ternities. The Greeks’ scholastic 
(Continued on Page 6)
CFP Party
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
is sponsoring an informal rush 
party Friday, December 2. Fresh­
men are invited to visit all the 
houses, with or without dates, be­
tween 8:30 pm and 1 am.
S ‘N’ S Auditions
Auditions for the 1967 Scotch 
and Soda Production will be 
held December 2, 3, 9, 10, 16, 
and 17 in the Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
Previous cast members of 
Whatserface or Nouveau are 
NOT to audition again. How­
ever, they should sign their 
Name and Phone Number at 
the Skibo information desk if 
they wish to be considered for 
this year’s cast.
Further information concer- 
ninig audition details will be 
in next week’s issue of the 
Tartan.
Dr. Edward Teller
chibald S. Alexander, assistant 
director of the U.S. Arms Con­
trol and Disarmament Agency 
will address the assembly.
Dr. Teller, now professor-at- 
large at the University of Cali­
fornia, is one of the few physi­
cists who continued to work on 
nuclear weapons after the end 
of World War II. He is a former 
member of the general advisory 
committee of the Atomic Energy 
Commission.
Dr. Roger B. Sutton, professor 
of physics at Carnegie Tech, will 
be a member of the six-man com­
mittee which will summarize the 
proceedings of the assembly and 
draw together the opinions ex­
pressed into a final report.
SAI, Phi Mu 
Collaborate 
In Musicale
“How people seek their 
pleasure” will be investi­
gated this weekend by Sig­
ma Alpha Iota and Phi Mu 
Alpha Music honoraries. The 
two groups are staging “The 
Pleasure Seekers,” a satir­
ical musical review in the 
form of a series of short 
skits this Friday and Satur­
day in the Skibo Ballroom.
Tickets, at one dollar for 
adults and 50 cents for “sub- 
teens,” can be bought at the 
door, the Music Department of­
fice, or from any member of 
SAI or FMA. Friday’s show 
starts at 9:30 pm and Satur­
day’s at 8:30.
(Continued on Page 3)
Inside the TARTAN .. •
A visit to WQED ..............p. 2
Explosion and fire .........P. 3
Fair less lecture recapped .• P. 4
Tech building plans.........P.5
|| Big Brother is Watching
(editorial) .................
Gov't reserve poUcies
p.6
attacked...................
Summer jobs tabulated ..P. 6
This Week in PittsburghP. 7
Whats Doing on Campus .P. 8 ;
MMCC meetingp. 1«
Tech wins final game ...p.12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 16, 1966
Qrill Explosion Leaves 
Seven Men Homeless
The mysterious explosion that obliterated The Univers­
ity Grill last week ruined two apartments housing seven 
Tech students. The Grill, formerly The Greeks, was located 
at 4605 Forbes Avenue between Seemiller’s Pharm?cy a^d 
the Campus Cleaners. Shortly after 4 o’clock last Wednesday 
morning. The Grill exploded and burst into flames which 
rhot 50 feet above the rooftops.
Joe Harcarik, a senior chemi-
First Educational TV Station 
Serves Schools, Community
by Sue Attinson
“Everybody is always running into everybody else however things get done,” Mrs. i 
Adele Allison, public relations head, said about crowded facilities at WQED. And I must 
admit to having run into quite a few familiar names and faces during my visit there.
Tartan Photo by John Men WQED Staff Preparing Programs
cal engineer, was asleep in his 
third-floor apartment above Cam­
pus Cleaners. The shock of the 
explosion knocked him across the 
room. “I jumped up swinging,” 
says Harcarik. “I thought some­
one threw me out of bed.”
“For a second,” he says, “I 
didn’t know what was happen­
ing. Then I looked out the 
window and everything was all 
orange andered.”
Harcarik dashed down the 
stairs and out of the building. 
His two roommates, Jake Eisen- 
man and Steve Lorand, both ar­
chitects, were out at the time.
There was no time to save 
anything. The University Grill 
burned to the ground in less 
than half an hour. Flames leapt 
across to the Campus Cleaners 
building and destroyed the ap­
artment and all its contents. 
Another apartment above 
Seemiller’s Pharmacy, which 
housed four Tech students, was 
also rendered unlivable. Oc­
cupants of this apartment were 
Tony Fennell, a junior mechan­
ical engineer; Jim Neely, a sen­
ior in chemistry; and Ron Cook 
and Ron Stephens, seniors in 
physics.
George E. Tipker, head of 
men’s housing, has temporarily 
housed these four men along 
with Harcarik and Lorand in the
basement of Welch Hall. Eisen- 
man is staying in a friend’s 
apartment.
Earle Swank, Dean of Men, 
wrote notes to the men's instruc­
tors asking them to give the 
men time to make adjustments. 
The men above Campus Clean­
ers lost all their books and clothes 
in the fire.
The City of Pittsburgh’s Bomb 
and Arson Squad is investigat­
ing the cause of the explosion. 
The blast, which could be heard 
as far away as Squirrel Hill, 
shattered windows in nearby 
house? and threw chunks of con­
crete into a service station 
across the street.
C-Book Correction
Alpha Phi Omega, producer of 
the C-Book, wishes to report that 
the correct information for page 
4, under Hospital, is the follow­
ing:
“For emergency hospital trans­
portation, call Security Office, 
day extension, 666, night 621- 
2620.”
On page 6, the extension 
should again be 666.
A Phi O will prepare a com­
plete correction list at the be­
ginning of the spring semester.
Mrs. Virginia Bartlett, wife of 
Carnegie Tech’s history depart­
ment head, was briefiing Dr. Mc- 
Creary’s (history) wife for her 
part in the “At Issue” current 
events program. A portrait of 
Jewel Walker (drama depart­
ment) in costume decorated by 
the art department in which 
William Law (painting and de­
sign, 1966), and David Byrd 
(graduate paintin,g and design) 
were at work. A night student, 
Cricket Schroder, sat at her desk 
in traffic and continuity. The 
name of Music Department Head 
Sidney Harth appeared several 
times on the listing of weekly 
programs.
WQED, which is scheduled to 
move into a new building on 
the site of what is presently 
Colonial Manor apartments, is 
the first community sponsored 
and supported educational tele­
vision station in the world. In­
corporated since 1953, the non­
profit organization is housed 
in the 1890 Holland Mansion at 
field Aves. It is administered 
by a Board of Directors and a 
professional staff of approxi­
mately 90 people.
The School Services Depart­
ment of WQED - WQEX (very 
high frequency channel 13 and 
ultra high frequency channel 16, 
respectively) is responsible for 
assisting educators in the pre­
paration, production, and tele­
casting of lessons for schiol class­
room use and for the in-service 
education of teachers. Instruc­
tional programming offers basic 
sequential development of course 
content or an extention of the 
classroom learning experience.
Educational Focus
At the end of the second sem­
ester in 1965-66, 17,838 class­
rooms in 76 school systems were 
formally registered as partici­
pants in the programming and 
1,537 teachers were registered 
for in-service education courses. 
Of the approximately 6,552 hours 
of WQED - WQEX broadcasting 
per year, almost 1,107 c4 them 
have been scheduled for instruc­
tional programming for class­
room use.
In the industrial training class­
es of 1965-66, a total of 4,500 
employees from 140 companies 
and businesses were enrolled in 
courses offered annually by 
WQEX. Registered in the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh Medical Cen­
ter’s post-graduate courses, chan­
neled through 16, were 2,500 phy­
sicians located in lecture classes 
in 70 hospitals.
Community Interest
In addition to its school-orient­
ed educational programs, the sta­
tion focuses on community events, 
cultural reviews, national and in­
national problems, and children’s 
entertainment. It was Fred Rog­
er’s production, “Children’s Cor­
ner,” which won the 1955 Syl- 
vania Award for the best local 
children’s show in the United 
States.
“We are famous for plays,” 
said Mrs. Allison referring to a 
new Alcoa series in the making. 
She also went on to explain spe­
cial projects.
The station’s film unit gets 
outside conrtacts from such or­
ganizations as NASA and the 
Board of Education. Presently 
it is handling three such proj- 
jects: on defense, adult basic 
education, and communication 
and guidance at Pitt.
“Most of our work is done on
tapes,” Mrs. Allison pointed out 
during the tour of the facilities.
The station leases its present 
home from the University of 
Pittsburgh at a rental fee of one, 
dollar. The basement houses an** 
art department in which all scen­
ery is designed and constructed. 
Alongside it is the film depart­
ment where film strips are re­
wound onto cords so that they 
can be stored in the “lack of” 
space and where programs are 
previewed in what has been des­
cribed as “an extended closet.” 
On the first floor are two studios, J 
control rooms, and other techni­
cal equipment. Administrative of-
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Taping WQED Features
fices and school services busi­
ness are located on the second 
and thiyd floors.
In addition to more space, 
WQED looks forward to a color 
installation in its new studios. 
Paul Schweiker, head of Carne­
gie Tech’s architecture depart­
ment, has been selected to do 
preliminary planning for the 
new structure.
City Interest 
The talk of bringing to Pitts­
burgh the first community-organ­
ized educational television station 
(Continued on Page 3)
Between Classes or at Study Break— SCOTTY'S —
OPEN TO SERVE YOU }
24 HOURS A DAY %
*3918 FORBES AVENUE },
. . . and ... *
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE }

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 10, 1966—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Page 3
Tartan Photo by John Mera4 x 8 ft. Film Room
(Continued from Page 2) 
began in June, 1951, in the office 
of Mayor David Lawrence, later 
Governor of Pennsylvania. In­
cluded in various preliminary 
community meetings were lead­
ers in business, industry, and civ­
ic associations, PTAs, and the 
Federation of Women’s Clubs. 
WQED was incorporated in 1953 
and granted a constrution appli­
cation by the FCC. Its first office 
was located in the Civic Build­
ing at 200 Ross Street.
After receiving the Holland 
mansion from Pitt, the station 
was given a tower for its antenna 
by Westinghouse Broadcasting 
Company. This established a pat­
tern of cooperation between 
WQED and the commercial tele­
vision and radio outlets in Pitts­
burgh. During the annual fund 
drive for WQED, for example, all 
tri-state stations donate public 
service air time to promote the 
drive.
In 1962, the sttion became a 
member of Eastern Educational 
Network, a non-profit charitable 
organization set up for the ef­
ficient interchange of instruc­
tional and general television 
materials and for the develop­
ment of a cooperative program 
for planning and instruction. 
The station also is affiliated 
with Educational Television 
Stations.
Because the annual operating 
cost of WQED exceeds $90,000, 
sources of income are derived 
from a general community cam­
paign which includes business 
and industry, foundation and cor­
VlBOSTCÌ
\lai(jtiis DUw'.o'xJ 
up lo y>VXfO.OO
1 o further assist you 
write or stop for your 
Free booklets ''The 
Day You Buy aDiornond 
and ‘ Gift Catolog
---- c
> L J. BOSS^ Co
^ . r J Be cl err
WOOD ST. AT 4TH 
2nd FLOOR 
ARROTT BLDG. 
EX. 1-0224
porate gifts, and individual con­
tributions; slhool support, spe­
cial projects, and government 
grants.
Building Grants
In December, 1965, WQED un­
dertook a $5,000,000 project for 
the construction of a new build­
ing following notification from 
the Richard King Mellon Charit­
able Trusts that a grant of $1,-
500,000 would be given to the sta­
tion over the next three years 
toward a new building.
The Mellon grant, the largest 
singlesingle gift ever made to 
any educational television station, 
is greatly assisting WQED in 
qualifying fully for a matching 
grant program of the Ford Foun­
dation. (In July, 1965, the Ford 
Foundation announced a series 
of grants to community-support­
ed educational television stations 
to help these stations to develop 
substantially more support from 
the communities they serve. The 
Foundation has set aside $10 mil­
lion for the grants ranging from 
$50,000 to $500,00 per station for 
four years after Jully, 1965.)
WQED hopes to move into its
new building adjacent to the 
Carnegie Tech campus some­
time in 1968.
“But we’re not going to be a 
part of Tech,” said Mrs. Allison. 
“We will still be the same kind 
of community station.”
Spanish Club 
Sees Slide Show
The Spanish Club of Pittsburgh 
will hold its third cultural meet­
ing of the 1966-67 season on Sat­
urday, Nov. 19, at 8:15 pm in the 
Rogal Room of the “Young Men’s 
and Women’s Hebrew Association 
(YM and WHA), 315 South Belle- 
field Ave., Oakland. Buenos Aires, 
capital of Argentina, will be the 
subject of a color slide presenta­
tion produced and narrated in 
Spanish by Channel 11 newscas­
ter Alan Boal.
The program will present a 
sentimental look at the Buenos 
Aires of yesterday and today, 
featuring the typical Argentine 
music of the tango, as sung and 
played by the leading Argentine 
singers and orchestras of the 
past 40 years.
SAI, Phi Mu Musicale
(Continued from Page .1)
Sigma Alpha Iota, the honor­
ary for women with a 2.75 or 
over in music, is donating pro­
ceeds from the show to the Na­
tional Braille Transcription Fund. 
The Fund will use this money to 
buy Braille typewriters for blind 
students.
SAI frequently cooperates with 
Phi Mu Alpha, the men’s music 
honorary, on programs of this 
type.
Other charitable projects of the 
honorary include ushering at 
concerts on campus, private har­
mony and solfeggio tutoring ses­
sions for freshmen, and “music 
therapy” programs at local hos­
pitals and institutions.
In the music therapy programs, 
members of the group perform 
short classical pieces and then
Tartan Photo by Eric FeldmanSAFs, Phi Mu’s practice 
for weekend performance.
usually swing into informal song 
sessions with patients in the au­
dience. Two weeks ago the wom­
en of SAI visited Woodville State 
Mental Hospital.
Naval Ship Systems Command needsengineers
ELECTRICAL • ELECTRONIC • MECHANICAL MARINE • NUCLEAR • NAVAL ARCHITECTS
for research, development, design and project 
management on our current programs: Communications 
Satellites, Submarine Rescue Vehicles, Deep Ocean 
Search Vehicles, Aircraft Carriers, Hydrofoils
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRONICS
Control Systems
Communications
Computers
Countermeasures
Radar
Sonar
Undersea Communications 
Instrumentation
CIVIL
Hull Structures 
Deep Diving Pressure 
Capsules 
Arrangements 
Armament
MECHANICAL
Hydraulic Power Systems
Turbines
Diesels
Environmental Control Systems 
Propellers
Mr. Cornell will be on campus on N ovember 29to discuss positions in the above fields with you.See your placement office to schedule an appointment.
Cut along dotted line and mail to: 
NAVAL SHIP SYSTEMS COMMAND 
CODE 20325 
WASHINGTON, D. C.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
I would like additional information on 
I am majoring in----------------------------------
and will be available for permanent employment
? I plan to talk to your representa- ? I do not plan to talk to your rep- 
tive on campus. resentative on campus.
Name
Address
CityStateZip Code
Telephone No.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 16, 1966
Uncle Scope Needs You ! !
This is Kevin Truex, Class of *66.
We want to move him up a notch.
Are you good enough to take his place?
Kevin Truex is just one of many ’66 grads whose future 
looks very promising at Avco Lycoming. We’ve known 
that for some time — even though we’ve known Kevin 
for less than a year.
Good men like Kevin Truex get recognition fast at 
Avco Lycoming.
For one thing, they quickly find themselves in a job 
that fits not only their qualifications, but their own 
particular interests as well. Avco’s Engineering Train­
ing Program gives them a chance to see ... and actually 
work in . . . many different areas of engineering before 
they settle on one to grow in.
For another, their formal education needn’t stop when 
they come to work with us. Graduate programs at 
Columbia, NYU, RPI, Bridgeport, Connecticut, and
Brooklyn Poly are among those available under a full 
tuition reimbursement plan to all Avco engineers.
A CAMPUS INTERVIEW IS YOUR FIRST 
MOVE TOWARD A GROWING FUTURE!
Sign up with the College Placement Office for an inter­
view. Avco Lycoming will be on campus
Friday, December 2
ABOUT AVCO LYCOMING...
Avco Lycoming has been a leader in the research, development 
and production of aircraft engines since 1928. In 1953 we intro­
duced the first gas turbine engine for helicopter applications. 
Today we are the world's leading developer of gas turbine 
engines for helicopters and other power applications. As evi­
dence of our leadership in this constantly growing field, more 
helicopters throughout the world today are powered by Avco 
Lycoming engines than by any other manufacturer. We are also 
a producer of components for America’s space program.
Explore the challenging world of Avco Lycoming.LYCOMING DIVISION
STRATFORD. CONNECTICUT
Classified Ads
EMPLOYMENT
Collesre Students Seeking: Part-Time Em­
ployment — In collection department of 
Wilkinsburjr Firm. Hourly wapre. 9 p.m. - 
12 p.m. Monday thru Thursday and Sun­
days. Call »243-7281.
LOST AND FOUND
LOST — Carmedian Drop Earring. Goid
mounting. Lost between Baker Hall and 
Morewood Ave., on October 27. Reward. 
Contact Mrs. E. Black, 621-2600, exten­
sion 289.
RUGS S15 to SS9
1000 9x120, 6x9s, 12x12», 12x15s, 
etc. Also furniture discounts to 40%
_ - _ 5432 Walnut St.Chase s twnCltaCs
10-9 p.m. * 63,1-1025
Bed Checks
(Continued from Page 1) 
tage of this situation to break 
curfew. They have someone else 
phone in for them, or they 
phone in themselves and then 
leave."
Not only do these violations 
jeopardizing the future of the hon­
or housing system, according to 
Miss Bowman, they create a se­
curity hazard as well. The doors 
of Colonial Manor lock automatic­
ally at curfew, and girls who 
sneak out after curfew leave the 
doors open.
At Monday night’s meeting, Ju­
dicial Council opened itself to 
suggestions for correcting the sit­
uation. No acceptable alternative 
to bed checks was found, though.
“We can’t take their word of 
honor,” said Miss Bowman, “be­
cause the honor system has al­
ready failed. We’ve got to take 
some sort of disciplinary action.” 
Judicial Council of AWS, 
composed of eight undergrad­
uate women, makes and en­
forces all women’s housing 
rules. Members of Judicial 
Council, in addition to Miss 
Bowman, are: Susan Fulton, 
Linda Robbins, Lisa Mitchell, 
Judy Frankenberg, Brenda 
Goldstein, Minnie McCoy, Joan 
Greenberg, and Judy Geffner.
Tech Engineer 
Launches Study 
Of Metal Flaws
Dr. J. L. Swedlow, assis­
tant professor of mechnical 
engineering at Carnegie 
Tech, has received a $30,000 
grant from the National 
Aeronautics and Space Ad­
ministration (NASA) for an 
“analysis of notches and 
cracks” which typify flaws 
found in the metal of space 
agency hardware.
Motivating the study, Dr. Swed­
low said, are practical problems 
in the missile and space indus­
try, where material defects can­
not be offset by using heavier 
structures because of overrid- 
weight limitations. He will use 
engineering and mathematical 
methods, rather than metallurgic­
al methods, in attempting to 
this problem.
The grant covers one year, but 
Dr. Swedlow said the project 
may take three to four years to 
complete.
Dr. Swedlow joined the fac­
ulty of Carnegie Tech in Sep-
Y Shows Film
This Friday the Y-Cine Series 
presents The Balcon, starring 
Shelley Winters and Peter Falk. 
This is one of the few “theater of 
the absurd” plays to be put on 
film. The action centers around 
a house of prostitution. While a 
revolution is in progress, the 
brother of Madam Irma has its 
own revolution—a group of men 
act out their wish fulfillments 
with beautiful women. The film 
is relentlessly funny and at times 
shocking, and this theme of man’s 
pretense ends on an ironic note. 
This film is a must for those in­
terested in the theater - acting, 
designing, and writing — as well 
as for those interested in the con­
troversial and unusual.
tember. He received his under­
graduate degree from Cal Tech 
and returned there for his Ph.D. 
after earning his master’s degree 
at Stanford University.
He has published several arti­
cles on cracked metals, as well 
as numerous papers on other sub­
jects.
Sororify 
Parties 
See Page 6 
for
Schedule
Lilienthal Urges Use
Of Humanistic Talents
“The greatest of all resources—the indispensible ones— 
are the human ones. They must be nurtured, motivated and 
liberated by the new manager-leader,” Mr. David E. Lilien- 
thal, former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission 
and Tennessee Valley Authority said in lectures at Carnegie 
Tech, November 3, 7, and 8. The lectures were part of the
Benjamin Fairless Memorial 
thal’s topic was management 
Mr. Lilienthal is currently 
chairman of the Development 
Resources Corporation, a world­
wide firm providing services for 
the development of natural re­
sources.
He stated that when the man­
ager learns to discover and 
utilize the latent talents of 
other men, the country will be 
prepared to face “the crises 
that challenge this generation 
of men.”
Community Problems 
In the United States, these 
crises include crime in the ur­
ban areas, air and water pollu­
tion, lack of economic opportun­
ity for Negroes, and need for 
more teachers,, according to Mr. 
Lilienthal. He said, “The solu­
tion to these problems is not 
necessarily dependent on techno­
logy or finance but on the ability 
of the manager to stimulate hu-
Lectures series; Mr. Lilien- 
as a humanistic art.
man response and agreement 
within a community. . . . The 
quality of leadership makes one 
community progress while an­
other stands still.”
According to Mr. Lilienthal, 
“The most ominous problem in 
the world today is the increas­
ing gap between the rich and 
poor nations.” He suggested 
that “by increasing the capabil­
ities of people, managerial 
leadership can help restore the 
economic development of poor­
er nations.”
He said that the manager-lead­
er must have “an unshakable 
faith in the potentiality of vir­
tually every person. To guide 
human beings takes not systems
Kevin Truex is now working on stress and 
vibration problems for the world’s leading 
developer of gas turbine engines. Frankly, 
we could have used him in experimental 
test, but he knows where he gets his satis­
faction better than we do.
analysis, but human understand­
ing.”
In his opening remarks, Mr. 
Lilienthal said that he consider­
ed his invitation to participate in 
the Benjamin F. Fairless Lec­
tures “an honor — one that I 
highly prize.” He remarked that 
“the combination of science, hu­
manities, and arts at Carnegie 
Tech add a dimension I find most 
appropriate for the motif of this 
lecture.”
LEWISSults-R epairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIED 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
A DIVISION OF AVCO CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 16, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
Building Plans Unsettled 
Due To Mellon Merger
by Rich Morrison
New buildings are part of Tech’s future plans, and an 
architect to coordinate the new buildings with the Tech 
campus is being considered. The biggest holdup is that 
lech’s whole future policy must be reviewed in light of the 
Mellon merger. Until this is decided, additions to the campus 
must move slowly so that they do not become obsolete in 
Tech’s later expansion. ---------------------------------------——
Education Office Seeks 
Postdoctoral Researchers
The U.S. Office of Education is looking for candidates 
for 20 National Postdoctoral Fellowships in educational re­
search to be provided by the Office beginning June 1, 1967.
New Facilities 
planned To Ease 
Major Problems
Despite the many compli­
cations arising from the Mel­
lon merger, Tech is moving 
ahead on both long and short 
range plans for the physical 
plant. In addition to the Tar­
tan Grill and Food Service 
improvements to the Tartan 
Grill and Food Service im­
provements noted last week, 
other facilities are being im­
proved :
:? Installation of new electrical 
K panels in Boss, McGill, Scobell, 
and Welch Halls, scheduled for 
I Thanksgiving, is expected to elim- 
inaté the problem of power fail­
ures. An improved circuit break­
er has also been included in the 
system. New wiring will be in­
stalled next summer.
? The entrance to the paiking 
lot behind Morewood is being ex­
panded, and lights will be in-
'* stalled.
? Tech’s newest computer, to 
be installed on the fourth floor 
of Scaife Hall, is expected to 
arrive in late December. The 
time-sharing IBM computer 
will have -satellite stations to 
ease congestion. It is expected 
to be the first of several such 
units.
? The Post Office now in the 
bottom of Baker is to be moved 
and the resulting space will be 
available for the expansion of 
the bookstore. This is expected 
to be a reality by next fall.
Publication Facilities
? Office Services is also ex­
panding. The new facilities will
I be able to handle much more of 
^ Tech’s printing, from publicá­
is tions and classroom material to 
committee reports. Fraternity 
publications and degree thesis 
are also among Office Services
A Research Building, orig­
inally intended to house Com­
puter Science, many math offi­
ces, and physics labs is being 
re-evaluated in light of the 
merger. This building is on a 
priority list however, and 
should move fairly fast as it is 
already partially financed.
Though there are no committ­
ments at present, a Fine Arts 
Center may be constructed in 
back of Morewood because of 
the relationship to WQED.
Possible New Dorms
New dorms are also under con­
sideration. Care is being taken 
that they will not include the
responsibilities. Photographic fa­
cilities are being updated, es­
pecially in the area of microfilm­
ing.
? Cost estimates are being 
made on possible solutions for 
the ventilation in Donor Hall. 
Some of the ideas being tested 
and considered are several 
types of special films for the 
windows and fixed or move- 
able vanes to be installed on 
the outside of the building. 
These would admit light to the 
room while cutting off much of 
the heats.
? Estimates are also being 
made for correction of the noise 
problem in Hamerschalag House. 
Suggestions include special car­
peting and accoustical tile on the 
walls and ceiling.
faults of the present dorms. The 
situation with the dorms is very 
fluid since it depends on Tech’s 
future policy. There is some pres­
sure for a wider range of hous­
ing and a possible elimination 
of the requirements for many 
freshmen to live in Tech dorms.
A four-level parking building is 
being considered as a solution to 
Tech’s parking problem. The 
structure would be built in Pan­
ther Hollow, hopefully before 
construction of the Research 
Building begins since the Re­
search Building will eliminate a 
large number of parking spaces. 
The possibility of a shuttle ser­
vice for commuters is also be­
ing looked into as a possible so­
lution for the parking problem.
Fraternity Houses 
Thought is being given to the 
construction of new structures to 
house the fraternities not now in 
the duplexes. Though one esti­
mate called for all fraternities to 
be housed in campus owned 
buildings in 1969, the fraternities 
have asked for extra time to ex­
plore the possibile results of this 
plan.
Also in the planning is an 
addition to Skibo, possibly to 
house a bookstore and recre­
ation areas. A very rough esti­
mate calls for completion from 
three to seven years.
The biggest problems in the 
construction of new buildings are 
cost and manpower. Such con­
struction runs well into the mil­
lions of dollars. There may al­
ways be more projects than 
money, but progress is being 
made.
PIZZERIAwith the flying Pizza
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 682*8691
KLIDE S. SCOPE SAYS . . . 
SAVE THE TURKEYS!! Protect 
these helpless creatures who 
have played such a signifi­
cant role in our nation’s heri 
tage. The department of the 
Interior estimates that there 
are only 16,000,000 of these 
intelligent, loveable birds 
left.
Let's not allow the turkey to 
become extinct as we did the 
buffalo. Let's band together 
to help these friendless birds. 
Instead of turkeys for 
Thanksgiving, let's make it 
Reindeer. This beast has no 
historical significance what­
soever, and one reindeer 
provides more meat than ap­
proximately 100 turkeys. To 
really let your friends know 
how you feel—If you're in­
vited over for "Thanksgiv-, 
ing Turkey," turn them down 
flat—let them know how you 
feel about this outrage to 
your country's honor. Let's 
act now!More protest march­
ers needed! Write Klide S. 
Scope, c/o I.C.P.
The Fellows will be selected on 
the basis pf nationwide competi­
tion by a committee of eminent 
research scholars and Office of 
Education staff.
To be eligible, an applicant 
must have a doctor’s degree 
and must have demonstrated 
outstandinging research inter­
est and capability, plus a po­
tential for still greater develop­
ment as an educational re­
searcher.
The applicant’s specialization 
may be in education, a behavior­
al science such as psychology or 
sociology, or a subject matter 
area related to education and its 
problems.
Candidates will be required to 
describe the training they wish 
to take and explain how it will 
contribute to their development 
as educational researchers. 
Fellows selected to participate
in the new program will receive 
a training stipend for a period 
up to 12 months equivalent to 
the salary they would have re­
ceived by continuing their reg­
ular employment.
Announcement of the selection 
will be made next spring when 
the successful candidates will at­
tend a one-week seminar in 
Washington on research prior­
ities in relation to the country’s 
most pressing educatonal issues.
Forms and instructions for ap­
plying for a National Postdoc- 
tral Fellowship in educational re­
search must be received by Dec. 
31, 1966. Forms and instructions 
may be obtained from: Research 
Training Branch, Division of Re­
search Training and Dissemina­
tion, Bureau of Research, U. S. 
Office of Education, Washington, 
D. C. 20202.
Pittsburgh** Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
¿xcfuâive at ¡Roberts
DIAMOND RINGS
SONNET .FROM »100
The swirling sides of the mounting cross to hold the firey diamond 
close to the finger. In 18 kt. white gold.
Worlds Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budgett
JOHN \l. RUBf KIS' SON («
Pittsburgh—429 Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
1. How come you’ve been getting 
such swinging computer dates?
I guess you haven’t 
seen my personality 
questionnaire.
2. “Five foot two. 
113 pounds. 
Nearsighted.”
3. “Play the ocarina4. “Like cucumBer 
sandwiches.”
5. You mean to tell me 
those great-looking girls 
Co for these things?things
It’s the last item that 
really clinches it.
6. “Stepping into swell job with 
Equitable Life. Good pay. 
Fascinating work. Plenty of 
chance to move up.”
I think I’ll see 
Jane tonight, Susie 
tomorrow and Fran 
the day after.
Make an appointment through your Placement Office to see Equitable’s 
employment representative on Monday, Nov. 21st, or write to Patrick 
Scollard, Manpower Development Division, for further information.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 © Equitable 1966
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Pag« .5—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, November 16, 1966
EDITORIAL...
Big Brother Is Watching You!
In the past, Carnegie Tech has made a number of progressive steps 
in allowing students to assume more responsibility, especially in govern­
ing their own actions. However, this progress took a sudden reversal this 
past week when the administration forcibly cancelled a drawing which cost 
five dollars per couple. The winning couple was to be given round trip 
plane tickets for two to Miami, Florida, two reserved motel rooms, and 
spending money for the weekend.
This plan was discovered by the Dean of Women at Chatham College 
and subsequently brought before a meeting of an association of Deans of 
Women in Western Pennsylvania. At the meeting, Tech was asked whether 
or not it condoned such an activity. Although Tech had previously been 
aware of the students’ plans and had taken no action on it, as a result of 
pressure placed on Tech by this group, the school had no other choice but 
to inform the gathering that it did not condone the action, and, further, 
it proceeded to squelch the proposed weekend in Miami. On the basis of 
this action, Tech has apparently chosen to regulate the moral actions of 
students off-campus.
This stand by Carnegie Tech is unjustifiable and impractical; fur­
thermore, it is inclined to set a confining precedent for future student ac­
tivities. Carnegie Tech does not have the right or responsibility to enforce 
?n off-campus moral code. To expect such responsibility is to demand 
totalitarian control of students in all situations. Such matters are not under 
the jurisdiction of Tech; only the students (and their parents, if the stu­
dent is under age) can answer for their actions in such a situation.
It is one thing for Tech to enforce curfews and regulations in campus 
housing. It is also their right to expect students to conduct themselves in 
an adult-manner. However there is nothing implicit in the plan for the trip 
that has immoral implications; furthermore, even if there were such im­
plications, Tech still has no jurisdiction in the matter. This decision as­
sumes that the students were or would have been irresponsible in their 
actions.
The precedent set by Tech’s action is certainly not conducive to better 
university-student relations. It implies that the school, in response to pres­
sure from outside, is willing to negate any trust or responsibility conferred 
upon the student. Moreover, this decision is not consistent with the past 
practice of giving students some responsibility for their actions. While the 
differences between morality and legality are not completely distinguish­
able in many cases, the question that has been precipitated involves wheth­
er the university has the right to make decisions on the off-campus actions 
of students, that do not involve, directly, any laws but may or may not be 
a moral issue.
Furthermore, does pressure placed on Carnegie Tech, in this case 
by an association of Deans of Women, alter the circumstances to the ex­
tent that Tech must take a stand in order to ‘save face/ even though the 
it has no right to make such a decision.
Langer Wins 
Survey Drawing
The winner of the drawing as­
sociated with the Tartan Sum­
mer Job poll has been selected. 
He is James A. Langer, senior, 
civil engineering. Mr. Langer may 
stop in at the Bureau of Place­
ments, Skibo 10, to pick up his 
merchandise certificate.
In addition to the 199 bona fide 
questionnaires, two ticket stubs 
from an event which occurred at 
the Civic Arena on October 14, 
were received, along with an in­
vitation to subscribe to a number 
of magazines at reduced rates, 
a plea to re-elect Harry Marko- 
vitz to the General Assembly, 
and a number of paper airplanes 
which may or may not have had 
anything to do with the flyers 
announcing a meeting of the Sci­
ence Fiction Club and the show­
ing of Fail-Safe at the Cine-Series.
Be A Good Scope
Scholastic Policy
(Continued from Page 1) 
standards are self-imposed and 
enforced by CFP. However, since 
the majority of fraternity men 
recognize the importance of stud­
ies, they have adopted these limi­
tations.
There were several reasons 
for changing the policy: CFP 
had pronounced the old penal­
ty system inadequate; also, the 
school’s new policy of not re­
stricting activities of an indi­
vidual on probation affected 
the change.
Stripend Offered
The Fund for Theological Edu­
cation, Inc. offers a full-stipend 
fellowship to senior men not now 
planning to enter the ordained 
Protestant ministry but willing to 
give it serious consideration. 
There are no denominational re­
strictions. Interested men should 
see Tom Huff in the Office of Re­
ligious Affairs, 57 Skibo, before 
Friday, November 18.
„carnegie tech_ *TARTAM
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor............................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager...............................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor........................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor....................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor...........................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor.................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager..................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.......Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .....................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.......Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Momi, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistant!: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
New* Stoff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Stege!, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Badzgon.
OFFICES. Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Phone 682-4557. 
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pot Stakem, Chri* 
Hausler, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees> Tom /McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Ginny 
McKelvy, Harriet Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, 
Jane Mer^k.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Placement Poll 
Shows Student 
Job Interests
Results of the Tartan’s 
Bureau of Placement sum­
mer job poll have been tab­
ulated and the information 
analysed. Although only 6.5 
per cent of the undergrad­
uate population responded to 
the poll, some significant in­
formation has been drawn 
from it.
According to the poll, the aver­
age summer job salary per week 
for all departments on the un­
dergraduate level was $78. High 
was in the department of Civil 
Engineering which proved to be 
$105 per week. The low was 
Home Economics with an aver­
age weekly salary of $51. Sixty- 
one per cent of the students em­
ployed had summer jobs related 
directly to their interests. Signi­
ficant also is the fact that only 
28 per cent of those responding 
to the poll had used the place­
ments office in attempt to find 
summer jobs. Of those, 31 per 
cent got jobs through Placements.
On the graduate level the aver­
age weekly salary for summer 
employment was $164, the high 
being for graduate students in 
Electrical Engineering with $189 
per week.
Suggestions Useful
There were many good sugges­
tions to improve the bureau’s 
summer job program. Most rec­
ommended better communication: 
feedback on applications submit­
ted to the bureau, more informa­
tion posted on campus, and per­
haps the printing of a pamphlet 
outlining what is available, and 
how to go about applying. Others 
urged the listing of jobs in wider 
geographic areas, and jobs of a 
general nature which do not re­
quire specific skills.
Still others, however, wanted 
more jobs which would relate 
to their fields of interest. A 
strong cry was registered by 
those in the College of Fine 
Arts that not enough jobs are 
available to them in their areas 
of endeavor. Another general 
complaint was the procedure 
presently employed in filing 
the information on summer 
jobs.
Seventy-two per cent of the 
students wanted more informa­
tion in the Tartan on summer 
jobs. In response to this the Tar­
tan has agreed to publish fre­
quently a bulletin on the state 
(Continued on Page 10)
Meltzer Criticizes
Reserve Policies
Dr. Allen H. Meltzer, a Carnegie Tech economist, has at­
tacked the Federal Reserve Board for its policy excesses, 
claiming that they are responsible for inflation and reces­
sion in the Unit ?d States. He made these claims in a lecture 
in the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, Thurs 
day, November 10.
>»¦
wm
Campus Chest
(Continued from Page 1) 
would be forced to leave school 
without extra financial assis­
tance.
Closes Monday
Next Monday, Nov. 21, is the 
last day for the Campus Chest 
Drive.
A1 Witchner and Dave Kamons, 
co-chairmen of Campus Chest, 
say the Drive’s goal is “not mon­
etary . . . our duty lies in point­
ing out to Tech the thousands of 
other students who need our 
help . . .
“You should give because you 
want to help someone who needs 
your aid before he can help 
himself, or because you feel an 
obligation to somebody besides 
yourself, or because you feel it’s 
right. The reason can be suggest­
ed to you, but it must come 
from your own ideas and ideals.”
Rush Parties
The first required sorority rush 
function will be held this Sunday, 
starting at 1 pm in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
All freshmen and transfer wom­
en who have received a 2.0 or 
higher for mid-semester grades 
are invited to attend.
After the short assembly at 
Skibo, there will be seven half- 
hour parties held in the fraternity 
duplexes. Refreshments will be 
served.
Dr. Meltzer’s speech, entitled 
“Approached to Controlling In­
flation—Two Days After Elec­
tion,” said that the Federal Re­
serve Board’s policy moved from 
one extreme to the other, from 
an “excessively large” to an ex­
cessively restrictive policy. The 
former policy encourages infla­
tion, which; he explained, is 
caused by too great a supply of 
money. The latter policy, intro­
duced only this year, inhibits the 
growth of the money supply so 
much that a recession faces the 
country.
Corresponding to these views, 
Dr. Meltzer warned against in­
creasing taxes. The economy is 
already slowing down without ad­
ditional help, he explained.
Although he commented that 
there is no perfect solution, Dr. 
Meltzer suggested a better way 
to economic stability. He said “a 
steadier, controlled rate of grow­
th in supply of money” should be 
maintained.
Dr. Meltzer also criticized two 
other government policies: the 
v/age-price guidelines and the in­
terest rate ceiling for small sav­
ings accounts. He called the 
wage-pride guideposts “indirect 
price controls” and said that 
“there is no reason to expect 
them to prevent inflation.” This 
follows Dr. Myron Joseph’s re­
cent slash at the guideposts, in 
which political timidity and lack 
of commitment by labor and in­
dustry were blamed as the cause 
of failure at the wage-price 
guides. Dr. Meltzer considers high 
interests a good anti-inflationary 
measure, but criticized the govern­
ment for opposing high interest 
rates on small savings accounts.
Dr. Meltzer received his under­
graduate degree from Duke Uni­
versity and his advanced degree 
from the University of California 
at Los Angeles. He joined the 
Tech faculty in 1957 and is pres­
ently a professor of Economics 
and Industrial Administration. 
His articles on economics and 
statistics have appeared in the 
“Review of Economics and Statis­
tics; the “Journal of Political 
Economy” and the “American 
Economic Review,”

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 1<S, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendei
MUSIC____
"A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME . .
Romeo And Juliet
by Stan Thomas
A MEDIUM-METAMORPHOSIS often results in a monster— 
something neither fish nor foul, but interesting to watch just the 
same. Recording great performances or memorable productions for 
posterity on film is also liable to create such a monster: a film that 
is not really a film or a record of a stage performance.
The Romeo and Juliet of the Royal Ballet currently being shown 
at the King’s Court Theatre in Oakland is perhaps the best film-from- 
performance I have yet seen, but it still demonstrates the shortcom­
ings of such undertakings. Since this is not to be a review of the 
Ballet itself, let me say that the dance drama is very fine. Kenneth 
MacMillian, the choreographer, has recreated* the drama and tragedy 
of the play in a style that is eloquent and foving. Very seldom rely­
ing on pantomime to create situation, Mr. MacMillian has put the 
drama in terms of physical action that follows its course to the final 
tragedy. The sets and costumes by Nicholas Georgodias are lovely, 
but this is a good place to note the difference in a filmed stage pro­
duction and a production re-staged for film.
THE COSTUMES MAKE THE transition brilliantly, probably 
because they are exquisitely detailed; somehow the set does not, 
probably because it is not as finely detailed. The film process, es­
pecially color film, creates color relationships and spatial relation­
ships that muddle and often destroy even the finest stage set. Move­
ment on such a set becomes another problem. The requirements 
for a ballet set call for a large place to dance—which was in the 
loreground—with the set, by necessity, far upstage. No problem, 
except the director of the film, Paul Czinner, insisted on giving us 
close-ups of the stars’ entrances which were all very far upstage 
and away from the action of the ballet. What was more aggravating 
is the relative unimportance of the stars’ entrance in context of the 
dance drama.
This tendency reached its height in the last scene of the sec­
ond act. While the choirs dances, Tybalt stands drinking in the 
arcade that runs the length of the set. Czinner finds it necessary to 
cut from the chorus to Tybalt who is really doing nothing more than 
watching the rest of the company before his entrance: he is just 
part of the crowd. Finally, after the third or fourth cut, Tybalt 
makes his entrance down the staircase and gets involved in the 
action that leads to the killings that are the climax of the plot. If 
the ballet had been re-staged for filming and the director wanted a 
little development, Tybalt’s upstage watching could have been done 
in the foreground while the chorus continued to dance upstage of 
him: in other words, a deep focus shot. In this type of film, cutting 
from a large action to a small action is tantamount to blacking out 
the stage and putting a spot on one person at any given moment 
of a performance.
AS AN OVERALL COMMENT ON this film, and the genre in 
general, I would have liked it much more if the camera had been 
set up at procenium length and the performance filmed entirely at 
tnat distance. Close-ups and cutting give pretention of making a 
film out of a stage performance and unless the performance is re- 
staged this is not the case. I found myself reacting the same way to 
Oliver’s Othello and the Burton-Giegid Hamlet.
West Side Story proved, though perhaps not as conclusively as 
possible that dance created for the stage could be cinematized with­
out being destroyed. Of course, the classic example of ballet on 
film is The Red Shoes, but the Red Shoes Ballet was created for 
tne screen and not for a theatre. Perhaps someday a choreographer 
will create a ballet for film, but until then filmed stage versions 
will continue to be roses by other names.
Big Scope Is Watching You
Carnegie Institute of Technology: Carnegie Concert Series. Program 
to be announced. Carnegie Lecture Hall; Nov. 16, 8:30 pm. Free
Duquesne University: University Orchestra, Raymond Montoni, con­
ductor. Recital Hall, School of Music; Nov. 17, 8:15 pm. Free.
Pittsburgh Concert Society: Recital by auditions winners. Anna Koe­
nig, mezzo; Sonata team, Richard Locker, cello, and Bonnie Voj- 
tek, piano. Synod Hall on Craig St. Nov. 14, 8:30 pm.
Carnegie Institute: Organ Recital, Stanley Tagg. Carnegie Music Hall; 
Nov. 20, 3 p.m. Free.
Carnegie Institute of Technology: Carnegie Chorus and Chamber 
Orchestra, Ronald Wilkins, Conductor. Carnegie Music Hall. Nov. 
20, 8:30 pm. Free.
YM & WHA: Operalogue. Richard Karp discussion of Verdi’s Othello. 
315 S. Bellefield Ave. Nov. 21, 1 pm.
Duquesne University: Fall Festival of Wind Music, Symphonic Band 
Donald McCathren, conductor. Rockwell Hall; Nov. 22, 8 pm. Free.
The Music Guild: American Ballet Theatre. Syria Mosque. Nov. 22, 
8:30 pm.
LECTURES____
The International Poetry Forum Presents Yevtushenko, reading his 
poems in Russian with English translations. Carnegie Music Hall. 
Friday, Nov. 18, 8:30 p.m. Tickets $1, $1.50, and $2.
DRAMA ....
Streetcar Named Desire, John Hancock. Tennessee Williams’ haunt­
ing story of a beautiful woman betrayed by love. 8:30 pm, Tues­
day thru Friday; Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. 
Hamlet Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse. Information at 621-4445. 
Admission $3.30.
The Duchess of Malfi, presented by the University of Pittsburgh The­
ater, Stephen Foster Memorial Auditorium. Nov. 16, 17, and 18 at 
8:15 pm; Nov. 19 at 7:15 pm. Tickets $1 and $1.50.
Performance in Mime. Jewell Walker, assistant professor of drama, 
Carnegie Tech. Open to public. Chatham College Chapel, Wood­
land Road; Nov. 17, 11 am.
Friedrich Schiller, presented by the German section of Chatham’s 
modem language department. Open to the public. No admission 
Charge. Coolidge Hall 135, Chatham College, Woodland Road; 
Nov. 17, 8 pm.
EXHIBITS____
Chinese Art Form, Collection of Walter Reed Hovey. Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, 4440 Forbes Ave., Treasury Room. On continu 
ous Display 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Saturday; 2 to 5 pm 
on Sunday.
Three Self-Taught Pennsylvania Artists: John Kane, Edward Hicks, 
Horrace Pippin. Third Floor Galleries, Carnegie Museum. Now 
through Dec. 4.
One-Man Exhibition of Sculpture by Sylvester Damianos. Gallery K, 
Third Floor, Carnegie Museum. Now through Dec. 11.
Photographs, drawings, and models by contemporary Philadelphia 
architect Louis Kahn. Galleries E-H, second floor, Carnegie Mu­
seum. Now through Dec. 25.
Old Master Drawings from the collection of the Westmoreland County 
Museum of Art. Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Gallery, University 
of Pittsburgh. 12 noon to 4:30 pm, Monday through Friday; 1 to 5 
pm, Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. Now through Dec. 5.
Paintings, Crafts, and Sculpture by local artist. Gallery Downstairs, 
5413 B. Walnut St. 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday thru Saturday; 7 to 
9 pm, Wednesday and Friday; 1 to 4 pm, Sunday.
Ceramics by Frank Wildenhain, Falk Hall Foyer. 10 am to 5 pm, Mon­
day thru Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday, Now through Nov. 22. Chat­
ham College, Woodland Road.
Fall Flower Show, Phipps Conservatory. Sunday, Nov. 6, thru Nov. 
30. 9 am to 5 pm and 7 pm to 10 pm, every day.
Moon Venture 1969 and NASA Space Exhibit. Buhl Planetarium. Sun­
days, 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm; Weekdays, 2:15 and 8:15 pm.
INFORMAL ENTERTAINMENT ....
The Crumbling Wall Coffee House, 4515 Forbes Ave. (near Craig St.). 
Every Friday evening, 9 pm to 1 am. Cider, coffee, tea, etc.
Readers Write
Dorm life is loads of fun. If 
Dante were alive today, he may 
have chosen to describe it rather 
than the Inferno. In at least one 
of the Hill dorms, the day begins 
anytime after 12 with a thunder­
ing water pipe serenade. These 
impromptu little compositions last 
anywhere from one to 30 sec­
onds. Turning the water on is no 
defense. Hopefully the sleeper 
will have time to get back to sleep 
before the next outburst.
Daytime is the best part of dorm 
life; the student is safely in a 
classroom away from the dorm. 
But unfortunately night comes 
early and a student cannot study 
without light. Light is always 
available in the library if a stu­
dent wishes to pack everything 
he needs and trudge over. How­
ever, this is not always the case 
in some of the dorms which have 
periodic blackouts. When these 
cccur, the students, realizing that 
for from five to 30 minutes they 
will be able to do nothing but 
touch type, profitably spend their 
time tossing obscenities and wa­
ter balloons from the windows. 
Authorities, hoping to eliminate 
blackouts, removed about one- 
fifth of the dorm washers and 
dryers from use. This move was 
followed a few nights later by 
a record six blackouts in one 
night. Some new equipment has 
boen installed and more is on the 
way, but many students are still 
forbidden to have coffee pots, 
ciectric heaters, immersion heat­
ers, etc., in their rooms because 
the wiring cannot take the load.
Even if a student can see he 
can’t necessarily concentrate. He 
is constantly bombarded by all 
sorts of noise. Clanking radiators, 
rattling windows, and the blaring 
radios and hi fi’s of others assail 
the ear. Closed doors are little 
help since much of the noise tra­
vels through the walls and floor. 
Residents of Donner and Hamer- 
schlag often wonder if their dorms 
weren’t designed as gigantic 
sounding boards.
Ventilation is also a problem. 
Donner Hall is the worst. If a resi­
dent does not wish to suffocate 
or boil, he must open his door, 
thus letting in the noise from all 
the other rooms with open doors. 
Residents of the older dorms have 
almost the opposite problems. On 
wir.dy days air comes right 
through the loose frames of cold 
windows. Doors opening at one 
end of the hall can rattle the 
windows and shut the doors of 
looms at the other end.
Vending machines too are a 
problem. Since residents are not 
allowed cooking implements in 
the dorms and since not all halls 
have vending machines, students 
must often trudge hungrily over 
to another dorm only to find that 
many of the machines are empty 
or out of order. Selection is often 
extremely limited on Sunday night, 
a night when the majority of 
dc.rm residents, willing, but 
thwarted customers, are on cam­
pus.
Thank goodness washing one’s
clothes doesn’t have to be done 
every night or Tech would have 
the largest nervous breakdown 
rate in the country (world?). Dur­
ing peak hours, waits of an hour 
for washing machines are not in­
frequent. Even at the unearthly 
hour of 7 am Saturday morning 
a dorm resident may well have to 
juggle his wash between two 
dorms to avoid waiting. Laundry 
tickets must be purchased ahead 
of time since the ticket dispensers 
in these laundry rooms are often
empty. Scobell laundry room lacks 
a soap dispenser. Schlag’s laun­
dry room is even more fun, but 
not for those who have weak 
lungs or are subject to heat pros­
tration. The fellow who put up a 
sign on the door proclaiming the 
room to be a sauna wasn’t kid­
ding.
All in all these petty, minor,
small, little inconveniences are 
just part of Tech’s master plan to 
educate us for the outside world. 
To those lucky enough to sur-
vive dorm life, the world holds 
no terrors.
Well thought out, long-range 
will happen to Tech’s reputation 
if several generations of stu­
dents leave Tech dissatisfied 
with dorm conditions?
Inmate
The Varsity C Club will meet 
on Tuesday, November 22, at 
12:30 in the gym.
SF Club Meeting
The Science Fiction Club, the 
newest club on campus, will hold 
its next meeting tonight at 8:30 
in Skibo 40. A book sale/trade 
will be featured.
The possibility of becoming a 
club recognized by Student Con­
gress will be discussed in addi­
tion to science fiction. Guest 
speakers and movies are planned 
for future meetings.
Linda Eyster, at 682-8883, can 
answer further questions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 16, I960
MMCC Meeting Explains 
Faculty, Student Opinions
Reacting to Margaret Morrison students’ complaints about the lack of publicity 
about their college and the MMCC administration’s desire for student opinions on the 
school, Dean Steinberg, Miss Betty Jean Lloyd, and Dean Shatz held a coffee hour with 
with students, last Thursday to exchange ideas and information.
Refering to the faculty propos­
al that, in the new University, 
more Fine Arts courses be open 
to non-Fine Arts students, Dean 
Steinberg said that “Allowing 
H&SS students to compete with 
Fine Arts students would be like 
throwing lambs to wolves.” “On 
the other hand,” he said, “We 
have to beware of mere “appre­
ciation courses” for non-Fine Arts 
majors.”
A student suggested separating 
Fine Arts courses for Fine Arts 
majors from those for other ma­
jors, and giving the courses dif­
ferent names. “Another possibil­
ity,” Dean Steinberg added, 
“would be more courses interre­
lating the Fine Arts and the Hu­
manities and Social Sciences.”
When asking about the lan­
guage department, the students 
were surprised to hear that the 
administration supports an ex-
TED SMITH
(B.S.M.E.) of the 
Bethlehem Steel Loop 
Course knows where the 
action is. He’s on the move 
at the nation’s most 
modern steel plant 
—our Burns Harbor Plant 
in northern Indiana.
Join the action.
First step: pick up 
a copy of "Careers 
with Bethlehem Steel 
and the Loop Course” 
at your placement 
office. Then sign up 
for a campus interview.
Our 1967 Loop Class 
has openings for technical 
and non-technical graduates 
(and post-grads) for 
careers in steel operations, 
research, sales, mining, 
accounting, and other 
activities.
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
change curriculum with Chat­
ham College. “Chatham has se­
veral language courses which we 
don’t have, and vice-versa,” Dean 
Steinberg said. Defining Tech’s 
language program, he said, “Our 
policy in languages is two years 
of classes and two years of tu­
torials.” He also told the girls 
that a language lab is now on or­
der for next year.
In response to student com­
plaints that Biology and Psycholo­
gy majors can’t take courses in 
their majors in their Freshman 
year, Steinberg said that the pro­
fessors in these subjects feel that 
freshmen need to attain both a 
general background for these 
courses and a certain maturity 
during their freshman year be­
fore they can begin working in 
these majors. Freshman sched­
uling is handled by Miss Lloyd, 
rather than by a department, to 
eliminate embarrassment when 
switching majors.
Also, if a student should switch 
majors at the end of her sopho­
more year, she can apply one 
program’s courses toward her 
new curriculum in the form of 
electives.
One student asked what a psy 
chology major could do without 
a graduate degree. Steinberg men­
tioned work in industry, person 
nel, government, social work agen-
Ton're under 25 bat yon drive 
like an expert.
Why should yon 
have to pay 
extra for you car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple 
questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more. 
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE. 
795-1393SENTRY. ÏT INSURANCE
cies, and publishing social science 
textbooks.
“The horizon for work for psy­
chology is widening,” he said. 
“Liberal arts jobs are less clear­
ly-defined than jobs for other stu­
dent academic areas, but probab­
ly just as many jobs exist.”
When a student complained 
about the Creative Writing course 
turning away interested people on 
the basis of grades, Steinberg ex­
plained that there were probably 
not enough interested students for 
a second section, and since very 
small sections cause the tuition 
costs to rise, another section was 
not made up.
Answering questions about the 
Psychology Department, Steinberg 
related that a “top-notch Child 
Development course is on the 
way.”
As for the Home Ec depart­
ment, he said, “We don’t see 
MMCC as an applied school. We 
merely encourage a professional 
approach along with basic courses 
.... In the merger, we may 
change the name of our Home Ec 
department since it connotes ap­
plied courses.”
Placement Poll
(Continued from Page 6) 
cl‘ summer and permanent jobs 
available and how to apply for 
them.
Further information will be 
given on summer employment to­
day at 3:30 pm in the Wherrett 
Pioom in Skibo when the Bureau 
will hold a general information 
session for summer jobs. At that 
time some of the complaints 
raised will be answered.
(Content,\poraryCo______9
Reflections 
On Elections
by Linda Pecaites
ELECTION RESULTS ARE FAR TOO tempting for this writer 
not to add her own two cents to the rundowns that have been given 
so far. This is obviously the year of the elephant with such dramatic 
congressional and state gains, but what ever happened to the 
donkey?
The Democratic Party has hardly laid down and died from the 
losses it has suffered; it still holds 65 per cent of the Senate seats, 
down from 67 per cent, and the House majority has been reduced 
from 68 per cent to 57 per cent. Yet the biggest significance of the 
losses is not to the party itself, but to the groups primarily depen­
dent on liberal legislation.
LABOR HAS TAKEN A HUGE LOSS from the change-over, since 
the organization had laid much hope that the 90th Congress would 
finally put through the legislation that the 89th had ducked, such 
as a repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act, Section 14b; establishment of a 
federal workman’s compensation; and a lessening of construction 
picketing restrictions.
Organized labor had devoted most of its campaign energy to 
the re-election of 48 freshman liberal Democrats, of which half were 
defeated along with Brown in California, Paul Douglas in Illinois, 
and G. Mennen Williams in Michigan, the other labor protegees.
The National Right to Work Committee has issued a statement 
that it estimates it has gained 40 to 44 supporters in the House. This 
is practically total insurance against any pro-labor legislation within 
the next two years and has opened the possibilities to anti-labor 
groups of trying for stronger anti-strike legislation, especially in 
the light of the electrical workers’ strikes.
ALSO AS DAMAGING AS THE LOSSES was the poor show­
ing of the recognized Democratic leaders as vote-getters. Robert 
Kennedy only managed to get 39.1 per cent of his candidates elected 
while his brother fared no better with only 39.7 per cent of his 
favorites victorious. While Humphrey broke even with 49 out of 
98 candidates winning, this was offset by his failure to pull incum­
bent Governor Karl Rolvaag to victory in his home state, Minnesota.
In other years, this could be the death sign for a man who 
wants to remain as Johnson’s running mate in ’68, but Humphrey 
manages to stay politically alive simply because of the failure of a 
single prominent Democrat to emerge with an overwhelming vic­
tory. With the Republicans riding high, Johnson will have to manu­
facture a more magnetic running mate than his present choices 
for 1968.
What’s Doing On Campus
(Continued from Page 8>)
MONDAY, November 21st
7 :00 and 9 :00—Dorm movie. The Mal­
tese Falcon. Wherrett Room.
8:15—‘‘Streetcar Named Desire.” Pro­
duced by the Drama Department of the 
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Theater, 
C.F.A.
TUESDAY, November 22nd
11:30-12:30—Thanksgiving Assembly. 
Ballroom.
All The Scope That's Fit To Print
TRY THE
MOONLIGHT BOWL
BOWL ALL YOU WISH from 12 midnight till 6 a.m. for 
only $2. Special Group Rates also available. Open 24 
hours everyday.
NEW MIRACLE LANES
Wm. Penn Highway
MONROEVILLEPhone: 372-3500
11:30-12:30—A. W. S. Wherrett Room.
6 :00-8:00—Chi Omega. Skibo 46.
7 :00-8 :30—Bridge. Skibo 56.
7 :30—Explorer’s Club. Skibo 45.
7 :30-9 :00 — Photography Club. Skibo 
55.
7 :30 — Tarquans. Synchronized BWim 
team practice. Pool.
8:00-11:00—Folk Dance Club. Ball­
room.
8:15—“Streetcar Named Desire.” Pro­
duced by the Drama Department of the 
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Thea­
ter, C. F. A.
HELP!
Camera Store Needs 
Part-T ime 
Salesman 
Must Know Cameras
FOTO SHOP
5854 Forbes Avenue 
421-7700
For '67,...the bestshapes in
•V
I*\ *\ i V
Pgh.come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 16, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 11
Soccer
Many games were rained out 
S during last week’s soccer action 
and will be played this week.
Warriors League — in the only 
game of the week, DU narrowly 
beat DTD 3-2.
Standings:
WL
Grad Nads20
TDP10
DU12
DTD02
Hawks League — In big games 
this week, top-seeded PKA “Gar­
net” white-washed BTP “B” 4-0, 
but then lost to a scrappy Archi­
tects team 2-1. PKT beat BTP 
“B” 2-1 in other action.
Standings:
WL
Architects20
PKA “Garnet”21
PKT11
BTP “B”03
Bullets League — SN clinched 
first place in its league by easily 
beating ATO and the EJ’s. On 
Monday, SN got three goals from 
Bob Harbage, two from Luis 
Rosanes, and one from Steve Ay- 
ior to demolish ATO 6-0. On Fri­
day, Salim Khan, playing with a 
dislocated shoulder, booted two 
goals and inspired his SN team­
mates to a 9-1 victory over the 
EJ’s. Aylor had four big goals 
for SN. In other action, BSR clip­
ped ATO 2-1.
Standings:same 3-1 score.
W L
SN3 0Standings:
WLBSR1 1ATO40
ATO1 2DTD “A”31
EJ’s0 2BTP “B”31
Celtics League—The Jags rolledEJ’s “B”13
over PKA “Gold”4-1 in the onlyTDP “B”13
game of the weekin the league.Grad Nads04
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Dome tic 
Tobaccos R in the City\ BRIAR BOWL
Vi 3725 Forbes St.
Standings:
BTP “A”
SAE
Jags
PKA “Gold” 
Bowling
W
2
1
1
0
Strike League—As expected, the 
E. J.’s “A” team took all four 
points from DTD “B.” BTP “A” 
and DU also won four points 
apiece, the Betas defeating TX 
and DU taking the win over SAE:
Standings:
EJ’s “A” 
DU
BTP “A” 
DTD “B” 
SAE 
TX
W
4
4
4
0
0
0
Spare League — Fourth-seeded 
BSR took four points from a very 
inept E J Eigenrac team. TDP 
“A” also took four points, defeat­
ing the EJ’s “C.” In the other 
league match, SN beat the Don- 
nerDorm 300’s by a 3-1 score.
Standings:
WL
BSR40
TDP “A”40
SN31
300’s13
EJ “C”04
Eigenrac04
Split League—ATO beat the Grad 
Nads to take sole possession of 
first place. In other matches, BTP 
“B” beat the EJ’s “B” while DTD 
“A” beat TDP “B,” both by the
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Final Standings: 
Set League
SAE “A”
Algorithms 
TDP “C”
Kappa Sigma 
PKA
Serve League
ATO “A”
SAE “B”
PKT
DTD
EJ’s
Spike League
W
4
3 
2 
1 
0
W
4 
3 
2 
1 
0
L
0
1
2
3
4
L
0
1
2
3
4
WL
BTP “A”50
TDP “IM’41
GSIA23
SAE “C”23
Comp Center23
ATO “F”05
Pass League
TDP “A” 
F Troop 
SN 
TX
BTP “B” 
SAE “D”
W
5
4
3
2
1
0
L
0
1
2
3
4
5
Playoffs—first round:
SAE “A” over TDP “IM”
15-4, 15-3 
TDP “A” over SAE “B”
15-9, 11-15, 15-4 
BTP “A” over F Troop 
15-9, 15-8 
Algorithms over ATO “A”
15-6, 13-15, 15-6
Semi Finals:
SAE “A” over TDP “A”
15-7, 15-9 
BTP “A” over Algorithms 
15-13, 15-10
Finals:
SAE “A” over BTP “A” 15-6, 
15-9 and Consolation Match:
TDP “A” over Algorithms 15-4, 
2-15, 15-8.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue 
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items
Ftnnmuinmimmu
Going To New York?
For Thanksgiving Vacation Travel to New York
by Chartered Bus?
The bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 23 
(to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and will be returning from 
Sloane House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at -3:00 p.m. on Sunday, November 27 
(avoiding crowds and delays at the Terminal).
Write your check to Stephen Weinreich for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (one way) and send it to Box 250, Campus Mail.
Ill See You On The Bus!
• • . STEVE WEINREICH, BOX 250 
(No Refunds for Cancellations After November 19th, 1966)
WRCT Schedule
Wednesay, November 16
5:00 pm—Godric premieres in a 
new special program.
7:00—CBS Radio Network brings 
you up to date with a summary 
of the day’s news.
7:15—Dave Rodger’s show is For 
You and For Me.
10:00—Larry Charles is back with 
some cool jazz on the Larry
Charles Show.
12:30 am—Sign off . . .
Thursday, November 17
00 pm—Dave Rosenberg opens 
a new show with a bang.
7:00—CBS News.
7:15—Godric does a special show— 
and it Will be special.
10:00—The Bruce Mann Show —
Things go better with Mann! 
12:30 am—Sign off . . .
Friday, November 18
5:00 pm—John D. Rand and his 
special assistant Miss Cue 
bring you The Lively Ones.
7:00—CBS keeps you informed of 
the latest news and sports.
7:30—The Friday night edition of 
Wipe Out—6 hours (count them 
s-i-x) of solid Rock.
1:30 am—Fall out . . .
Saturday, November 19
4:00 pm—You too can get stoned 
by The Roland Stone Show.
(Continued on Page 12)
LINCOLN
PANCAKE
KITCHEN%
3or WeJs _At
Woderate Price* . . .
Or Jin -After Dkealer 
Snach ... oh '(JeA
.. We Also Have ..17 Varieties of Pancakes 
("Forbes & Atwood—6 a.m.-3 a.m.)
A Scope In Time Saves Nine
WALLY'S
CAMPUS-FAVORED
Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
Women 
HUSH-PUPPIES FLATS 
LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
• WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre)
FRANK
Features the
Andes
London Fog
With the 
Zip-Out Orion 
Pile Lining
$45
These Maincoats 
are perfect for all 
kinds of weather. 
Claeth cloth in 
black or natural.
Sizes 36 to 46, 
Regulars, shorts, longs
Other Zip-lined 
London Fog Coats 
Leeds >60
Selkirk >70
JIM REICH, New Owner, Welcomes You
mim MEN & BOYS
5820 FORBES AVE.SQUIRREL HILL
Frank, Mellon or PNB Charge Accounts
Open Tuesday and Thursday Evenings 
Dial 421-9600

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, November 16, 1966
TECH BLASTS W&J 33-6
Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
Hubka Passes, Defense
Sparks Close of 5-3 Year
by Ron Finnin
The Carnegie Tech Tartans ended their football season with a 33-6 victory over 
Washington and Jefferson to give them a 5-3 season record, and to give Coach Gasparella 
his first winning season. The Tartans, who had appeared to have lost their touch the 
last few weeks, came on strong with play comparable to their early season standards. 
Tech looked good on all sides Saturday as th e offense scored five times, made 21 first 
downs and completed 27 out of SO passes. The defense held W&J to 7 first downs and 
a combined offensive yardage of 97 yards.
Tech Scores
Tech received the opening kick- 
off but neither team was able 
to successfully move the ball 
throughout the first quarter. Then 
early in the second quarter, Tech 
took over on their own 44 after a 
W&J punt and marched the ball 
56 yards for their first touchdown, 
ending the drive with a 14-yard 
pass play from Hubka to John 
Barnes. Tech’s second score was 
in the first moments of the second 
half as Larry Getto intercepted a 
pass and brought the ball to the 
V7&J 38-yard line. Four plays lat­
er Hubka again passed to Barnes, 
this time- from 20 yards out, for 
the second TD. Another pass to 
Barnes added the extra two to 
put Tech ahead 14-0.
W&J Fights Back
The next time Tech got the ball, 
however, they were unable to 
move it and were forced to punt 
from deep in their own territory.
W&J took over on the Tech 27.
They used a series of runs to 
move the ball to the Tech 11 and 
then scored on a pass from quar­
ter Soudan to Mike Gilmore.
Tech received the kickoff along 
with a penalty to give them the 
ball on their own nine-yard line.
Five plays later they scored on 
a 77-yard touchdown pass from 
Tom Hubka to Barnes.
The next time the Tartans took 
possession of the ball they march­
ed another 60 yards, and a 29 
yard pass from Hubka to Bell ran 
the score up to 26-6.
With six minutes left in the 
game Tom Hubka, along with two 
W&J players were thrown out 
of the game for fighting and Joe 
Cherney led the team to their 
final score. The Tartans took the 
ball on the W & J 41 and shoved 
it over, the TD coming on a one- 
yard run by Bob Healea. Fred 
Brown kicked the extra point and 
the game ended Tech 33, W & J 
six.
“More Than A Win”
Saturday’s game was more than 
a simple victory, it was proof to 
the Tech fans, and perhaps even 
to the team, that the Tartans 
still have what it takes to win 
ball games. This year’s season is 
over but with the majority of the 
team returning next year, the 
Tartans should look forward to 
another winning year to come.
Tech
21
129
335
27-28
1
0
5-28.8
Statistics
first downs
W&J
yards rushing 29
yards passing 68
passes 7-22
passes intercepted 1
fumbles lost 0
punts9-31.3
Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
All the Tartans came through big. Top, left, Bell nabs pass for first 
down (he caught 12). Bottom, left, relentless Tech defense puts the 
pressure on W&J punter. Above, Barnes gathers in a Hubka toss 
for the second of his three TD’s.
WRCT Schedule
7:00—Wipe Out! If you haven’t 
been stoned by 7:00, you’re 
sure to be wiped out by 1:30.
1:30 am—Shut down.
Sunday, November 20
10:00 am—Open The Gates with 
John Gates.
12:00 — Concert For A Sunday 
Afternoon is presented by J. 
Blair. This program will include 
tapes of CIT Music Department 
recitals.
3:30pm—If live folk music is your 
interest, then tune in The Mar- 
va Marrow Show.
4:00 — The Sunday Ceilidh with
Howard Glasser.i
5:00 — John D. Rand’s Sunday 
Mosaic features the best in pop­
ular music.
8:00—The WRCT Rock N’ Roll 
Request and Dedication Show. 
Call in your requests at 621-9728 
(MA1-WRCT). For you girls in 
Morewood, dial 01 on your house 
phone.
2:00 am—Turn off!
Monday, November 21
8:00 am—Open The Gates with 
John Gates.
7:00 pm—CBS News.
7:15—What can we say, but it’s 
The Time and Place for Walt 
Sullivan.
10:00—Studio J with Jeff Allen— 
where the music is mostly con­
temporary.
12:30 am—sign off . . .
Tuesday, November 22
7:00 pm—CBS News.
7:15—Nitetime Street and George 
Kavanagh — the easy listening 
sound of jazz.
10:00—Warm your thoughts with 
the soft spoken sounds of Elisa 
By Night.
12:30 am—Sign off . . .
Hourly, Throughout Most Live
Programming, WRCT Keeps You
Informed With CBS Radio Net­
work News.
Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON
Tartan Sports Editor
Familiarity Breeds Scopes
For years, students at Tech have been clamoring for an inter­
collegiate soccer team. With soccer rapidly becoming the fastest grow­
ing sport in America, as indicated by the recent formation of a pro 
fessional soccer league in our country, it is about time that we re 
evaluate the need of such a team on our campus. The former argu­
ment against such a team was based on the lack of interest at other 
local schools and that fact that the team would have to travel greet 
distances to play their games. But, with four colleges in the city con­
sidering the addition of soccer and also several other local schools, 
it is conceivable that soccer could now be easily added to the sports 
program.
The Pittsburgh Weekly Sports polled the athletic directors at 
the four city colleges to get their feelings on the subject. Their re­
sponses follow:
Frank Carver, Pitt—“I’d love to see Duquesne have soccer and 
I think Tech should get into it, too. I know they both want to broaden . 
their sports program. I’d be glad to see it started here. College soc- ' 
cer is the fastest growing sport today, along with wrestling. The 
number of teams increases every year. There are over 170 schools 
in NCAA playing now. Here at Pitt, we never have any problems 
getting kids out for soccer. We have as high as 80 to 90 volunteers a 
year. We don’t want to go so far away to play games; the more we 
can compress our schedule the less expensive it will be. As the kids 
don’t have to miss any classes. The minute there’s a field available 
we’ll be delighted to play them.”
Ray Haynes, Carneige Tech—“You’re talking to an old soccer 
man. I played four years at Slippery Rock. I’m definitely in favor of 
having it. I’ve been talking it up lately. I think I can say that soccer 
will be the next vexsity sport at Tech. It would generate a bit of 
enthusiasm locally. We could have a good soccer league within a 
90-mile radius of Pittsburgh. Why, St. Vincent just started a team th.s 
year. If we were to put up a sign tomorrow for candidates for a 
soccer team, I’m positive that at least 50 fellows would sign up. There 
were 185 players last year in our intramural league. The new dean 
here is very much in favor of new sports, find soccer and baseba l 
head our list.”
Dr. L. E. Skcnder, Duquesne—"Soccer would be a wonderful 
sport for us. I played a lot of soccer in the old days out around 
Bridgeville. I played with Buff Donnelli, who was a real great one. 
Twenty years ago I made a prediction that if soccer ever got a toe 
hold, it would be THE sport. We were talking about it recently at 
an athletic committee meeting. Its an inexpensive sport, and if we 
had a field, I’m sure the administration would give me the go-ahead 
tomorrow. It’s unfair to ask the students to travel so far to practice. 
It’s one of the reasons we dropped football. We used to have to prac­
tice in Brookline one day and South Park the next. We spent most of 
our time commuting. Our intramural kids have to go to Hershel Field 
to play. We’re doing a lot of building up here now, and everyone is 
lightly more concerned about that. A playing field is on the last 
stage of development program here.”
Mel Cratsley, Point Park—“I would think soccer would be a 
very likely sport for us all to adopt. There would be tremendous in­
terest and it would be one sport 5ve could all compete in on the 
same level. We could have real competition, head-to-head. We’re add 
ing tennis and wrestling to our program here now, to go along with 
basketball, golf and baseball. We had a soccer at Tech about 15 years 
ago, but we dropped it because of lack of proper facilities at the time. 
But when I was there, every year I had kids coming in my office 
and asking for a soccer team.”
Apparently all we have to do is get these men together and talk 
this over. With the growth of soccer in this nation, it would be tragic 
to see Tech and the other schools to watch it pass them by. Let it 
be known that the student body of Tech is all in favor of forming 
a team.
