DR. JAMES A. FRANCIS 
AT STUDENT VESPERS 
THIS THURSDAYŒhr iartan
)
NO TARTAN 
NEXT WEEK 
-VACATION-
VOL. XIV. No. 24.
SOPHS WIN CHAMPIONSHIP IN BASKETBALL FINALS
After much difficulty the final bas­
ketball game of the season, was stazed 
Wednesday at 5:30. The two teams, 
Sophomores and Seniors were tied for 
first place and this game was the de­
ceiving one. The game was a good 
clean game, hotly contested and mark­
ed by star playing on both sides, 
though the Sophs finally broke away 
from their opponents in the second 
half and ran up a large score. - 
The first half ended, with a tie 
score of 11-11, but- the- second half 
produced the score of 43-21 in favor 
of the Sophomores.Spectacular passing and placing of 
goals by the Soph forwards, Reed and 
Winner, were the big features of the 
game. At no time were they ham­
pered by the Senior guards but seem­
ed to place their ball any place they 
desired. Good jumping by their cen­
ter, Marian Scull, meant a lot to the 
Sophs, and alsO'the quick playing-of 
the side center Marjery Smith. 
Though the Soph guards were ham­
pered by their size they were able to 
hold the tall Senior forwards and 
oftentimes outjumped them.
For the Seniors three players stood 
out foremost, Stone, center; O’Con­
nor, side center; and Bechtel, for­
ward. If Mary Bechtel got the ball 
in her hands it meant a basket, for her 
aims were true and sure from any 
place on the floor. The Seniors had 
had quite a busy day and this seemed 
to be apparent in their playing, which 
%vas quite up to their usual standard.
This is the first time the Seniors 
have ever been defeated in their four 
years of school life and much as they 
hated to give up the championship 
there was no team that they would 
have given it to with less regret than 
to that of their little sisters. It is 
now up to the Sophomore class to 
keep up such a record both in ath­
letics and also in the class room. After 
the game Mr. Richard Hamer, head 
of the Physics department served the 
teams with refreshments. Mr. Hamer 
has always taken such an interest in 
student activities and is a great favor­
ite with the student body.An accident somewhat hampered 
the Sophs when Marian Scull sprain­
ed her ankle quite Jnully in the third 
quarter. Miss McClosky was substi­
tuted and filled her place well. The 
line-up was as follows:
Sophomores: Seniors.
I. Winner...........F................M. Bechtel
H. Reed (Capt.). .F... .M. Batchellor
M. Scull ....... .C.............II. Stone
M. Smith...........S. C..A. O’Connor(C)
H. Frist .......G..............I. Friedman
.T. Eakin...............G.................B. Endres
Substitutes—M. McClosky for M. 
Scull and F. Roberts for I. Friedman.
Gouls—Reed 13, Winner 7, Bechtel
7, Batchellor 3.
'Fouls—Reed 3 out of 3, Bechtel 1 
out of 2.
Referee and Umpire—Miss Spur­
rier, Miss Patton.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.MARCH 24. ' 1920.
SENIOR CLASS MEETING 
OF FOUR SCHOOLS HELD
Cooperation between the four Sen­
ior Classes is now considerably in 
evidence, without doubt to the mutual 
advantage of both school and class.
On Wednesday, March 17 at 4:30 a 
business meeting of the ’20 class was 
held in Room 104 Industries to dis­
cuss several important questions con­
cerning the Seniors.
The question of Group Insurance 
was spoken on by Dr.-Stevenson of 
the Insurance Department at C. I. T.
As he explained it, the idea was to 
have as many Seniors as wanted to, 
take out a twenty-year policy for $100 
or more, and at the expiration of this, 
the money was to be turned over to 
the school to use in any manner it 
thought best, or for any previously 
stipulated purpose.
It was, however, pointed out by 
sdrne of the Seniors that the benefit 
to be derived from Group Insurance, 
although unquestioned was to be real­
ized at such a great distance in the 
future, that compared to the urgency 
of immediate financial assistance ex­
pected of the alumnae (Seniors look­
ing into future) for various school ac­
tivities especially athletics, made the 
insurance plan untimely.
This plan was suggested as a mem­
orial for the ’20 class. It was rather 
prematurely presented, since the dis­
cussion as to whether or not the class 
wanted a memorial should manifestly 
have preceded it.
Group Insurance for this purpose is 
being successfully employed at several 
of the older institutions, but then 
their immediate needs cannot be as 
imperative as those of Tech; and it is 
therefore a matter of time before a 
Class memorial in the form of Group 
Insurance will be a reality at Tech.
The question of caps and gowns 
was discussed favorably; the economy 
resulting from their adoption being 
one of the strong arguments, let alone 
the dignity and impressiveness (those 
are the very words) which they im­
part.
The innovation of a Senior Picnic 
was suggested by Miss Agnes Piper, 
president of the Margaret Morrison 
Seniors. No definite action was taken. 
Leave it to. the girls to dig up r.cv* 
ideas!
A closed ballot on the questions 
under discussion was taken at the 
close of the meeting. The results are 
shown belowr:
Yes. No.
Insurance ............................... 7 90
Memorial ................................50 46
Caps and Gowns...................9(5 7
Total number of votes cast was 107.
FROLIC OF LABORERS PROVES BIG SUCCESS
Friday night, the Building Con­
struction men held their annual dance 
at the Union. Maggio’s orchestra 
again used as a means to liven up 
their spirits, thus forget all about 
work and spend a few hours in recre­
ation and amusement. The men con­
structed the orchestra’s platform 
which was Well decorated with carved 
posters, on top of which were situ­
ated the searchlights.The ratio of the space on the floor 
occupied by those present to the area 
of the floor was about five hundredths, 
therefore according to the above fact 
the attendance must have been ex­
ceedingly good. It was. Twenty 
dances and four moonlight dances 
were given and since they were so 
interesting the finis of the affair took 
place not at 12 p. m. but at 1 a. m.
The patron and patronesses were 
Prof. and Mrs. Dunnell, Mr. and Mrs. 
R. M. Young, Mr. and Mrs. Larkins 
and Mr. Dougherty. The committee 
who is responsible for that which took 
place are J. Simmons, chairman; R.
C. Altermatt and C. A. Burnell.
GIRLS’ HOME CONCERT
The following girls are chairmen of 
their respective committees, and will 
need to get their committees together 
at least once before vacation.
M. McCloskey, programs for dance; 
1). Turkle, programs for concert; F. 
Roberts, floor committee; M. Snyder, 
decorations; E. Wright, music; D. 
Petgen, patrons; L. McCombs, re­
freshments; M. Zarboskey, tickets.
The dance following the concert 
will be formal, and the girls are work­
ing hard to set a good precedent.
TWO 8.A. E. CHAPTERS GET 
TOGETHER ON BASKETBALL
The Pitt and Tech Chapters of S. 
A. E. Staged two games at Tech Gym 
on March 17th.
The preliminary game was played 
by the officers of the two chapters, 
the Tech Chapter winning by a score 
of 15-13. Bill Brennan furnished the 
spectators with an unusual display of 
classy floor-work.
The second game was the feature 
number, the Pitt Chapter winning by 
the score of 52-44. The game started 
at a lively clip and was full of action.
At one period in the second quarter 
the score stood 21-14 in favor of the 
Tech Chapter, however, this lead was 
soon cut to ribbons by “Jordan”, the 
mighty Pitt forward who came across 
writh five field goals in half that num­
ber of minutes.
Anderson’s floor work simply swept 
the Pitt team off the floor at intervals 
during the game but even this could 
not compensate the work of Curry and 
Jordan.
The stars of the game were Jordan 
and Curry, Pitt; Ravenscroft, Ander­
son and Gens, Tech.
When one considers that Jordan is 
credited with over 100 field goals dur­
ing the Pitt-Freshmen season and 
made as high as 23 field goals in one 
game the real significance of the score 
asserts itself.
The lineups:Officers (Preliminary)
(Chapter) (Chapter)
Pa O—15 Chi Omicron—13
Davis.......................F.......................BoothKennedy.................F.............Singleton
Mills........................C............................Fry
Jordy.......................G........................Jones
Brennan .................G................ McKean
Field goals—Fry 1, Booth 2, Single­
ton 2, Mills 2, Davis 2, Kennedy 3.
Four goals—Jones 2 out of 4, Davis 
1 out of 2.
Official (Jim Anderson).
Second Game.
Pa. O—44 Chi Omicron—52
Anderson...............F..................... Curry
Gens........................F......................Jordan
Ravenscroft..........C........................Lutes
Wilson....................G.................. Wright
Wetzel....................G............... Murdoch
Field goals—Curry9, Anderson 8, 
Jordan 14, Gens 6, Lutes 3, Ravens­
croft 5, Wilson 1.Foul goals—Jordan 0 out of 2, And­
erson 4 out of 8.
Official—Perkins.
E JUNIORS HOLD 
IMPORTANT MEETING
Last Wednesday the Juniors of Sci­
ence School held an important meet­
ing. The subject of the Juniors Prom 
wfas taken up. Mr. Nichol gave a 
financial report, according to which 
there was a deficit, arising from two 
causes, unavoidable extra expenses 
and miscalculation of fixed expenses. 
It was voted to pay Science School’s 
share of the deficit from the class 
treasury.
The subject of a Junior banquet 
was brought up and the following 
committee was appointed to report on 
the matter at next meeting: Butts, 
chairman; Bromer, Leete.
Mr. Nichol gave the treasurer’s re­
port, asking that class dues be payed 
as soon as possible.
SECOND INTER-FRATERNITY 
DANCE PLANS UNDER WAY
The second Inter-Fraternity Dance 
of the year will take place on Thurs­
day evening, April 29 in the Hotel 
Schenley Ball Room. Plans have been 
made by the members on the com­
mittee which consists of one repre­
sentative from each fraternity repre- 
sei ted in the Inter-Fraternity Coun­
cil. and are well under way and from 
reports there will be plenty of sur­
prises in store for those contemplating 
on going. Memories of the first dance 
given before the Holidays are still 
frrsh in the minds of those who were 
there and the committee is planning 
on going one better, and no doubt the 
dance on April 29 will bring out many 
wl.o did not have the opportunity of 
getting to the first one.
Dire&or Leete Gives Interesting
Message to Pittsburgh Clan
The following remarks, given to the 
Pittsburgh Clan at the Clan Lunch­
eon, at the Chamber of Commerce, 
March 19, 1929, by John H. Leete, 
Director of Carnegie Library, and for­
mer Dean of the Division of Engineer­
ing will prove of interest to all con­
nected with Tech, and are well worth 
printing here for the benefit of the 
Tartan readers.
DEVELOPING A SPIRIT.
Remarks to Tech Alumni.
It was the dream of the alchemist 
to find the touchstone which would 
transmute all baser metals into gold.
At the beginning of the twentieth 
century the world thought that the 
dream of the alchemist had been real­
ized, and realized in a fuller, larger 
sense than the alchemist had ever 
conceived. It was no longer merely 
the baser metals that were to be 
changed into pure gold. Now there 
was an idea, a process, which if given 
full swing, would blot out all the woes 
and discomforts of this world and bring about the millennium. Educa­
tion was to change darkness into light, 
vice into virtue, poverty into riches, 
ignorant intolerance into understand­
ing brotherhood, autocracy into 
democracy.
Then came the cataclysm of the 
world was deliberately planned and 
knowingly precipitated by the nation 
which had been held up as the prin­
cipal exponent of education for effi­
ciency and which regarded itself as 
the sole proprietor of Kultur. We re­
call how in those fearful years that 
system of education which had been 
accepted as the model by other na­
tions became a source of new terror, 
an inventor of original frightfulness. 
We have not yet forgotten that Ger­
many’s educational institutions served 
as a bulwark of autocracy, either 
avowed advocates or servile suppliants 
of the Kaiser and his atrocious poli 
cies and methods. We saw that even 
education and its products may be a 
menace to civilization.
Now this was due to no lack of ef­
ficiency in Germany’s system of edu 
cation; it was rather the natural re­
sult of it. German science and German 
logic lent itself too readily to the nef­
arious business in hand. Does it prove 
then that education is a failure as a 
panacea for the woes of the world and 
as a solution of the problems that con­
front us today? I hope not, for then 
would the future be dark indeed. To 
my mind, it does prove finally and be­
yond question, however, that educa­
tion for mere efficiency is1 a failure; 
more than that, that it is a positive 
menace. Stated in another way, it 
proves that we must enlarge our idea 
of efficiency if education for efficiency 
is to furnish any hope for the solu 
tion of the real problems of the fu­
ture. Education must hereafter not 
only train the man as a physical ma­
chine or even as an intellect, it must 
cultivate the spirit and must develop 
and establish character.
If this is the case, and it seems to 
me that we must accept this conclu­
sion without question, it follows that 
an educational institution must be 
something more than brick and mat­
ter, something more than equipment 
and apparatus. For buildings and 
equipment do not develop character. 
Buildings and equipment which can 
be expressed in dollars and cents, 
which can be bought by anyone with 
a purse at his command, these are but 
the outw'ard trappings of an educa­
tional institution, not the living thing. 
Valuable? Yes. Helpful? Yes! We 
want our alma mater to have the best 
facilities in order that it may do the 
best work. But necessary? No! 
Thing of the dozens of little colleges 
poverty poor in funds and equipment, 
contemptuously referred to as “jerk­
water colleges” which are neverthe­
less turning out year after year a 
product of consistently good quality 
and one of enormous value to the 
community. It is still time that a col­
lege may consist of a Mark Hopkins
orí one end of a log and a student 
atithe other.in these buildings must dwell a 
spirit, the spirit of the institution; 
a spirit which makes of the faculty 
something more than mere specialists 
in their narrow fields of learning; a 
spirit which vitalizes the dead courses 
of study; a spirit which impresses the 
personality and character of the liv­
ing institution permanently upon the 
lives of its students and graduates so 
that they become not only engineers 
and architects, but sons of their almo 
mater. Imagination, you say. All 
that counts is great buildings, costly 
equipment, a faculty trained each in 
his special subject; given these, you 
have all the ingredients of a good in­
stitution. That is not so. You may 
have flour and eggs and butter and 
flavoring and all the ingredients of a 
good cake, and they may me mixod in 
the proper proportions, but unless the 
God of Fire has his chance at these 
perfect ingredients, you’ll have a 
mighty indigestible product. It is just
true that all the physical and intel­
lectual components that go to muke a 
good educational institution may be 
provided, but unless you have the fire 
of the spirit you will have a mighty 
indigestible product. Let no one 
think this is the fantastic theory of 
an idealist. It is a real thing, this 
spirit of an institution, just as real as 
the spirit which animates you and me 
as individuals.
But you say, granted all that, a spir­
it just happens. It is either there or 
it is not there, and no amount of 
wishing or planning can make it exist 
if it does not exist, or can stop it from 
existing, if it does exist. It can't be 
created, it can’t be developed. Again, 
that is not so. It can be brought into 
being, it can be developed and 
strengthened, this spirit which ex­
presses the character of an institution. 
An institution which stands for some­
thing openly, consistently, firmly, 
that is, an institution that has real 
character, that institution will inevit­
ably create a spirit. If it stands for 
honor and honesty in every single act 
and expression, it will take on the in­
tangible spirit of honor and honesty in 
every single act and expression, it will 
take on the intangible spirit of honor. 
If it stands for scholarship in all its 
regulations and administrative poli- 
become an animating force in the in­
stitution. If it stands for democracy 
in all its life and relations, the spirit 
of democracy will soon permeate the 
life of the institution. It is in an in­
stitution as it is in an individual. 
Stand for something definitely, firmly, 
consistently, and the spirit of that 
something is brought to being. Brave 
acts beget the spirit of bravery. Knav­
ery begets the spirit of a knave.
Not only is the spirit of an institu­
tion a real thing, not only is this spir­
it, intangible, though it may be, a 
thing that may be brought into being 
and developed, it is a necessary thing 
if the institution is to hold the re­
spect of the community and the love 
and loyalty of its students and grad­
uates. Naked bricks and mortar can­
not arouse enthusiasm though they 
tower high to heaven, for they’re but 
bricks and mortar after all. It takes 
character in an institution and the 
spirit that is born of character to 
arouse the spirit of the student. We 
all recognize the force of character in 
an individual. We know of the lead­
ership of Washington and Lincoln and 
Grant and Lee and Theodore Roose­
velt—real leadership because these 
leaders stood for something. So I say, 
give the student an institution that 
stands for something, an institution 
with character, give him an institution 
with idejils to be proud of, and you’ll 
have a student whose enthusiasm will 
have to be curbed, not stimulated, and 
whose loyalty will never be open to 
question. Make the student believe in 
his school and you will have a student 
who will plan for his school, who will 
work for his school, who will fight for
(Continued on page 4.)
M. It. 0. AWARDS CREDITS FOR WORK IN ATHLETICS
The basketball season ended with 
the Senior-Sophomore game last Wed­
nesday. The list, of- students receiving 
Athletic Association points for bas­
ketball has been made out. To re­
ceive any points a student must at­
tend GO per cent of the practices, and 
the long list of girls obtaining points 
proves the interest .and enthousiasm 
shown by the school in basketball. 
Although not many hours were given 
up weekly to practice, the different 
teams gave, up their 'free hours will­
ingly. The list of substitutes is also 
one to be proud of and the one list 
of the two which shows up the true 
school spirit. . The ..substitute who practices faithfully ' without much 
chance of playing on the regular 
team is one to whom too much praise 
cannot be given.
The committee selected several 
weeks ago to take up the matter of 
pins as awards to students obtaining 
fifty points in athletic" activities has 
several designs already under consid­
eration. These pins will be awarded at the end of the year.
It only seems fair to say here a 
word for the interest and enthusiasm 
shown by the present SenioV Olass of 
M. M. in athletics at M. M. No class 
has done more for athletic#- than the 
Class of '20. Since these girls were 
freshmen they have done splendid 
work in creating an interest and in 
friendly rivalry in in tel1-class ath­
letic events. They have shown the 
keenest interest in sports of all kinds 
practiced at M. M,,. they have prac­
tically built up the i>thletic associa­
tion to be the active interest it is in- 
M. M. The school will lose quite a 
good deal when this class is graduated, 
but the work which they so nobly be­
gan and carried on will be continued 
for how could it be otherwise with 
the splendid example of the Class of ’20 to emulate.
The following students wore award­ed A. A. points:
Seniors
1st Team (10 points) Subs. (8 points) 
M. Bechtel 11. Hazlitt
M. Batchellor E. llobe
li. ICndres F. RobertsI Friedman H. I. Young
A. O’Connor (Capt.) H. Walters
II. Stone A. Wirtli
Juniors
1st Team (10 points) Subs. (8 points) 
M. Alexander O. Hayes
A. Gumbert I. Irvin
V. Schmuckcr (Capt.) B. Murpliy
G. Sleppy M. Stonakcr
M. Spencer M. Stolzenbach
M. Zarobsky C. Tester
N. Sloan
Sophomores 
1st Team (15 points) Subs. (8 points) 
J. Eakin A. Dougherty
H. Frist B. Mayer
M. Little M. McCloskey
M. Smith B. Paul
I. Winner M. Smith
A. Reed (Capt.) M. Scull
Freshmen 
1st Team (10 points) Subs. (8 points)
10. Forsythe A.-.Bellamy
C. Hodkinson E. Brookmire.
H. Macrum (Capt.) S. Creighton
R. Snyder A. Schlcifer
F. Denton G. Lyons
P. Obenour 1 G. Miller
K. Miller
D. McMinn
II. McKee
TAU GAMMA PHI HOtDS 
ANNUAL FORMAL DANCE
The nnrtitiU; fovhial danco of Tau 
Gamma Phi Was held at the Ritten- house last Thursday. The “Kitten- 
house orchestra” furnished music as 
well as entertainment for the dancers, 
and were partly responsible for the 
peppery v.alVair... D.uringwthe. evening 
the violinist broke .his bow executing 
a jazzy contortion. For the remainder 
of the dance- he played with the wood 
part of hibow, and a blind man
would never have known the differ­
ence. ‘ At - midnight feet -were rested and a delightful, lunuheon served. At 
each lady’s place was a favor in the 
form of a bar pin with the fraternity crest. r.v -
The patrons aiul patronesses were: Prof. ami Mrs. H. T. R. Aude, Prof. 
and Mrsl J. V. O’Brien, 31 r. and Mrs. 
W. O. Schoonover, Mr." and Mrs.
Dornberger, Prof. H. A. Kidd, Mrs. 
Gall’ney, The committee consisted of 
Chairman, H. E. Rudy, N. W. Lind, 
Arhtur Edstrom and Eimer, Weiss.
-Ö—INTER-FRATERNITY
BASKETBALL.S. A. E. defeats Opheleum by tho 
score of 36-10 in a fast, hard-fought 
game.
Wilson was the outstanding star of 
the game making nine field goals. The 
linup:
S. A. E.—36. Opheleum—10.
Gens.........................F.-----... Oakley
Ravenscroft...........F.........Richardson
Roberts...................C.................. Powrie
Wilson.....................G........................Culin
Wetzel.....................G.. . . Pennypacker
Field Goals—Wilson 9, Gens 3, 
Davis 3, Ravenscroft, Roberts 2, 
Pennypacker 1, Richardson 2, Po’wne 
1.
Foul Goals—Ravenscroft 0 out of 1, 
Pennypacker 2 out of 3, Oakley 0 out 
of 4. *'•
Officials—Red, Godden.
Kappa Sigma Rho defeated D. V. by 
the score of 19 to 17. Hermann of D. 
U. and Bollinger of Kappa Sigma Rho 
were the oustanding stars. .
The lineup:
K S Rho—19 D. U.—17
Williams.......... ...F................Tostisor
Duncan..............F..............Hermann
Mast.......................C...............Jacobson
Walker ...................G.............. McMann
Bollinger...............G...............Hubbard
Field goals—Williamsl, Duncan 2, 
Mast 2, Bollinger 3, Tostison 1, Her­
mann 4, Jacobson 1.
Foul goals—-Bollinger 1 out of 1, 
Williams 2 out of 2, Tostison 5 out 
of 5.
Substitutions—Nomack in place of 
Williams, Johnson in place of Duncan.
Officials—Windy Lynn.
Theta Xi defeats Tau Gamma Phi 
by the score of 12 to 10 in a hard 
fought game March 16th.
Officials—Windy Lynn.
DR. JAMES A. FRANCIS 
TO SPEAK AT VESPERS
Last week Rev. W. E. McCullough,
D. D., of tho Ilomewood United Pres­
byterian Church gave an address on 
“Preparation for Life Work.” He told 
of the qualities one must strive for 
and the aims one must have to suc- 
cetkl. Mrs. Andrew Kerr played very 
well on the organ and Mrs. Murdoch 
gave as a solo, M4My Rcdeomqr and 
My God”, by Dudley Buck.
This week wo aro especially fortun­
ate in obtaining as speakor Rev. James 
A. Francis, D. D., of Los Angeles. He 
is the pastor of the First Baptist 
Church of that city. Dr. Francis had 
a year of war work abroad, being 
called bocauso ho is one of tho fore­
most evangelists in the country. He 
combinos evangelism with social gosp- 
ol. Dr. Francis is in very great de­
mand at Chautauquas because of his 
wonderful abilities as a speaker. This 
wook he is conducting a sorios of 
meetings in the First Presbyterian 
Church of this city. He is coining to 
the Student Vespers because of his 
interest in students. All who come 
will bo well repaid as he has a valu­
able message to give and a forceful 
and interesting Way of giving it.
i M. DIVISION HOLDS WHITE ELEPHANT SALE
Have you soon Margaret Morrison’s 
pot elephant? 1 No! Well, then you’ve 
missed a lot. Thursday noon it roamed 
the corridors and Invaded the lunch 
room, gayly swishing its suspiciously 
bath-towel like trunk. Truly a re­
markable animal and we defy even a 
Darwin to have explained its origin, 
though the foot in the front of it did 
resemble “Hays” Itamsoy’s and a 
voice from the rear of it reminded 
one of .Jot? Whitney.
Nor was this amazing animal with­
out a purpose in life» rather it had a 
very serious one—being an ad.1 for a 
White Elephant Sale holding forth 
in the Recreation Hall. |J‘Lturod on by 
it, a walking sign board’/ttnd numer­
ous other signs posted alori^i the lower 
hall, patrons were enticed-to tho Roc 
Hall whore they giiyly and hilariously 
fished for fiifts (after paying their 
little difn'es), bought chances on a St. 
Patrick’s cake, a temping box of 
candy, and pinned, or rather attempt­
ed to pin, the tail on the elephant. 
Some of the attempts wefe- rather 
staggerihg and reminded orife,:of the 
good old days before prohibition. 
Business was certainly rushihg, the 
gifts gave out long before the pur­
chasers did, and there wcrott’t enough 
chance's on the cake and candy to go 
round. At 1:10 the winning numbers 
were picked with dife Ceremony and 
the lucky ones presented with their prlies. iv.'.
The purpose of the sale'was to help 
raise'money to send Y. W. C. A. dele­
gates to Eaglesmere. It undoubtedly 
fulfilled- its ‘purpose and was a de­
cided success, for which Miss Hazlett, 
chairman of the committe, Was largely 
responsible, not forgetting, Of course, 
our friend the El?;phant. • ,----.----& i-‘ -M. M. D, INSTRUCTOR MARRIES
Margaret Morrison faculty has lost 
one of its members. Miss Leonorch 
Honecker of the< Secretarial Depart­
ment has resigned her position to be 
married. Her wedding wijl take place 
next Saturday, March .27, in Wash­
ington. The bridegroom is Mr, Fred­
erick J, Smith of Gary, West Virginia, 
where the couple will live,
Miss Jlonocker has. been one of the 
most popular of the.secretarial teach­
ers and will be,greatly missed. The 
Soplforhores in the department pre­
sented her with a corsage last Friday. 
The best wishes of all the school go 
with her unto her new life of which 
she is sure to make as much a success 
as she did of her old one.

---------------------------------------------------

•'/.V >'
4
I VS ÄÜ8
THE TURKiSH a*5ARETTÇ
¿Mfnahyijàoô
Afj{tn if iht lllfStil Grgji Tutelili anJ EfypiUn Cigartltu In I ht WeiU
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Most people indulge in swimming “in the good old summer time” but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a “pent-up” life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. There’s a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pjttsburg hNatotor- ium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
DIVISION OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, CARNEGIE 
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Irregular Student«, Division of Scionce and Engineering:—
By action ol’ tho Faculty, beginning with the Spring Quarter I i)2(), all 
Sophomore, Junior and Senior Irregular .student« MUST arrange their .sched­
ule» In consultation with the Hoad of the Department (or his representative) in which tiuch students are registered. NO Irregular schedules for upper­
classmen will be made out or Issued by tho Office of tho Director.
Irregular Froshmon should report to the Director’s Of floe as formerly. 
Irregular Froshmon carrying one, or more, technical subjects of the course 
for which they are registered, report to their department head.
Two copies of each schedule approved by the Department, MUST UK 
FILED In tho Ofilco of the Director, within ton days after the opening of 
school in any quarter.
Students who fall to present schedules countersigned by this office 
within tho ton days mentioned will be excluded from classes.
(Signed) W. 10. MOTT, Director.----------$---------
NEW ELIGIBILITY RULES
The introduction this year of the new marking system made obsolete the 
former scholastic eligibility rule requiring a student to maintain a monthly 
K'ftulc of “C” (70.per cent) or better in two-thirds of his work in order to 
participate ip activities. New eligibility rules were adopted by the Educa­
tional Council on March 5th, based on a report by a special faculty committee 
with representatives from all Divisions.
The new rules apply uniformly to students in all Divisions. The: Admin­
istration of them, for men, rests with the Dean of Men; and for women, with 
the faculty officer designated by the Division concerned, until the appoint­
ment of a Dean of Women.
The Faculty Committee on the revision of the eligibility rules included 
in its report certain observations, three of which are herewith quoted: “First, 
the general'aim, in formulating the rules, has been to lay down the least 
number of restrictions consistent with the maintenance of good scholastic 
work; second, no attention has been paid to eligibility rules other than schol­
astic, because such regulations in intei'-collegiate athletics as amateur stand­
ing, the migratory rule, etc., are not determined by the Faclulty but by the 
Athletic Council; third, the committee recommends that the proper student 
governing board or boards be requested to consider the introduction at this 
institution of the “point system”, which assigns' to every office and activity 
a certain number of points, no student being allowed to carry more than a 
maximum fixed by the proper student board. The two great advantages of 
this plan are (1) that a student is kept from developing too many campus 
activities to the detriment of his studies, and (2) the work, training and 
Jionors involved in activities are spread over a larger group of students.The new rules follow:
1. To represent the Carnegie Institute of Technology in any inter-collegi­
ate competitive contest for men, or inter-class contests for women, as officer, 
member or manager of any organization, a student must be registered in a 
degree course, be in regular attendance carrying a schedule of not less than *ir> units of work and be in good scholastic standing as defined in Paragraph
3. A unit of work represents one hour per week of a student’s time (includ­
ing class, laboratory, or preparation hours) for a quarter of II or 12 weeks.
2. To represent the Carnegie Institute of Technology, as officer, member, 
or manager of any of the following activities, a student must be duly register­
ed, and be in good scholastic standing as defined in Paragraph 8.
1. Institute Student Council. 2. Board of Student Activities, 3. Athletic 
Council. 4. Divisional Senates, fi. Musical Clubs. (>; C. 1. T Band. 7. Class 
Officers. 8. Cheer Leaders. 1). Junior Prom Committees. 10. Arts StudonV. 
Ball Committee. 11. Publications.
3. A student falls to be in good scholastic standing when he has incurred 
71 or more deficiency hours. Deficiency grades carry the following weights:
10, 2; F, 3; U, 4. By multiplying the number of units of work assigned in 
the curriculum to the subject concerned by the weight of the grade obtained, 
the deficiency hours in that subject is the result. Example: A student in­
curring 85 deficiency hours as follows would become ineligible.
Units of DeficiencySubject Grade Weight Work Hours
Chcm. Rec...............10 2 X 6 equals 12
Mathematics .......F 2 X 15 equals 45
Drawing ...R 4X7 equals 28
Total deficiency hours..___85
' j WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1920.
Smart Spring Suits
-for Young Men 
are Ready!
1The new models are particularly handsome and 
¦ s'tylish—both single and double breasted!
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby!
Our chain-¿tore system affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
*30 *35 *40
¡“Ultra-Class” Suits, $45 and S50
302-304 State Street
AKRON PITTSBURGH SCRANTON
AMSTERDAM (3 stores) TRENTON
CLEVELAND ROCHESTER TERRA HAUTE
MILWAUKEE SCHENECTADY WILKES-BARRE
READING SYRACUSE YOUNGSTOWN
uiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiieiH
subsequently; (2) by the secretaries 
of all organizations listed in Para­
graph 2, at the beginning of each 
quarter, or as soon thereafter as the 
necessary elections for the current 
year have been held.
12. Similar list of women, under 
the same procedure, shall be filed with 
the officer designated by the Division 
concerned, until the appointment of a Dean of Women.
E. & E. SMOKER.
The smoker held by the Estimating 
and Erection Club, Tuesday the 36th 
of March was a splendid success and 
enjoyed by all those who were present.
The credit for the success of the 
affair goes to the committee who 
worked so hard. (W. G. Goode, Funk 
and Col. Bliss deserve special mention 
for working so tirelessly. Col. Bliss 
especially deserves credit for he was 
the life of the smoker. He danced, 
told jokes and passed the hot dogs 
with exceeding grace and elegance. 
His much vaunted Southern charm 
was in evidence and the census of 
opinion was that the money his peo­
ple expended to cultivate in him this 
southern charm was well expended. 
Mis darky stories reminiscent of the 
by-gone period of the South were very 
well received.
F. G. Goode and King put up a very 
interesting wrestling match, after be­
ing repeatedly warned by the referee 
that it was supposed to be a wrestling 
match and not a reunion of long- 
separated sweethearts they got down 
to business. They pulled and tugged 
for 15 minutes when King tripped on 
the mat and fell down on his re­
sponsibility. The referee declared 
Goode the winner. When the smoker 
was over he had to leave by the rear 
exit protected by the other Sophs for 
fear of violence on the part of the in­
dignant Freshs, who lost a consider­
able amount of Easter vacation on 
the decision.
¦ Next came the boxing bout (Cous­
ins vs. Richards) was enjoyed Ijy all, 
for these boys fought from the blow­
ing of the whistle to the last clang of 
the bell.
Master of Ceremonies Brummel 
sang some charming songs picked up 
on the French Front, in his earnest­
ness to make the affair a success, he 
got some German words mixed up 
with his French, as the war was over, 
the guests overlooked this ,for it was 
unanimously agreed that his voice had 
been cultivated, (huckster?).
The time then came when Col. Bliss 
southern training was to be put to 
the acid test. It was discovered that 
no provision had been made to reim­
burse the cook for his services. He 
suggested a collection, he personally 
would redeem all coupons and car 
checks. A total of $4.95 was collected. 
He walked back down the center- of 
the room, visible to all eyes, when 
he handed the receipts over to the 
cook, lo and behold $1.90 had disap­
peared.
PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.
0% ®arian
Publiahed every week by undergraduate* at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision ol the Student Activities Board.
Entored in the postofilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
4. A .Sophomore, Junior or Senior 
with 71 or more deficiency hours as a 
result of the mid-quarter examina­
tions becomes immediately ineligible. 
Two weeks in advance of the mid- 
quarter examinations a warning is 
given to all members of the three up-
This y Mur f 1.60
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.76
Kdilor-in-Chief.... 
lulfiMi Maaagar
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 9426.
.LeRoy E. Emcrich 
. ,.T. W. Alls worth
per classed participating in the activ­
ities stated in Paragraphs 1 and 2, 
whose scholastic standing is not sat­
isfactory, and who are likely to be 
declared ineligible if they fail to bring 
up their work between the date of 
warning and the mid-quarter examin­
ations.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate News Editor 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. 3............Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries..........................J. K. Kudisili
Art»..................................T. K. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
Ralph ShannoI. M. Zebesti. T. Sissman
BUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
5. A I'Yesnmn with 71 or more de­
ficiency hours as a result of his first 
monthly test in any quarter becomes 
ineligible. No two weeks advance 
warnings are given to Freshmen, as it 
is opinion of the faculty that a first 
year man who incurs 71 or more de­
ficiency hours as a result of his first 
monthly test should withdraw imme­
diately from activities, and devote 
himself entirely to his studies to pre­
vent the possibility of his being sub­
ject to unfavorable Faculty action at 
tho end of the quarter.
(>. A student who becomes ineligi­
ble as a result of the final examina­
tions of any quarter is automatically 
ineligible during the following quar­
ter. By removing his deficiencies 
prior to the beginning of the second 
quarter following he can place himself 
in good standing for that quarter. Ex­
ample: A student becoming ineligible 
as the result of the final examinations
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
in the autumn quarter remains ineligi­
ble during the winter quarter. By > 
bringing his deficiency hours below 71 
by re-examinations before beginning
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
An jr delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at ence.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
"THAT'S WHERE OUR MONEY GOES.”
Last week the statement was made that Tech would have little trouble 
ranking a close second to Purdue, where the students last semester, alone, 
spent .$40,000 on dances and similar social functions. Many seem to doubt 
the fact but in order to prove our assertion an estimation was made from 
the Tartan files and other authentic authorities as to how much money was 
actually spent toward this end. However, this estimation is only approximate 
and gives but an idea of the cost of our “Jazz Fever”.
The Tartan advances that, during the period from October first to the 
end of the Winter Quarter, a total of $30,000 was spent by Tech students for 
dances and does not include similar social functions in its estimation. The 
money actually spent for admissions totals about $17,000 to which was added 
Gfi per cent as an average overhead expense above that of admission. This 
total of $30,000 would pay the tuition of four hundred students for one year 
or of one hundred for four years and average about $15 for every Day 
Student.The writer realizes that pleasure must be associated with work but our 
opinion, that according to our financial status too much is spent toward this 
end, is supported by prominent members of the Faculty and Administration. 
To those who doubt still, we would extend a cordial Invitation to visit the 
office and to look over the actual figures so that they may see for themselves.Why not start a “fever” which is less expensive? Poor? Figures don't 
show It. .
the spring quarter h ebecomes eligible 
again for participation in activities 
during the Spring Quarter.
7. A student who is repeating the 
year’s work as a member of the same 
class as the preceding year is not 
eligible.
8. A student with 71 or more defi­
ciency hours who transfers from one 
Division to another cannot become 
eligible until he has carried the work 
of the new Division in good standing 
for. one full quarter.
9. A student placed on probation 
for conduct by the Institute Commit­
tee on Discipline becomes immediate­
ly ineligible.
10. No student shall compete in 
any inter-collegiate athletic contest 
until he lias filed with the Supervisor 
of Athletic a card signed by the In­
stitute Physician certifying that he is 
in satisfactory physical condition. 
Such certificate may be cancelled at 
any; time in case it is decided that the 
continuance of athletic training is 
likely to operate to the physical in­
jury of the individual.
11. Accurate eligibility fists 
»>ien must be filed in the Office of 
Dean of Mon on special blanks 
this purpase as follows: (1) by 
managers of the Varsity Teams, 
ical Clubs, and Band, ten the first scheduled public 
of their respective 
eac hquarter, and a supplementary

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE FIVE.
The Mellon National Bank Is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
»ny account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND 
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE
THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
Huiu'f S’ljiiti'iu (ttmigmjatinn
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10. 
"The Discovery of the
American Lollar.’ 
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
? BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN X CHURCH
i Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowsn, D. D.,Robert MacGowan,M Inlster.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.Christian Endeavor at 7.We want the Tech boys to at- leud our services and learn to know us as the congregation of “Friendly People*" A heartywelcome awaits you.
Grace Church
(Reformed)«AYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET* FREDERICK C. NAU. Minister. SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M.Social hour and LuncHeon ior stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
ASCENSION EPI8COPAL CHURCHEUaworth Avenue and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.Sunday Servloee, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bible Class at 10:0#, Wd by Dr. Calrln.
DR Genuinely Wslcoms.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDKAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30. 8:00, 9:00. 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.' Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P M. Penr 58. Middle .JRJAM for Toch Stu
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
TAU BETA PI HOLDS •
On Saturday, March 20, Tau Beta 
Pi held their initiation banquet in the 
Assembly Room of the Fort Pitt 
Hotel. After the formalities of initia­
tion were over, the banquet was serv­
ed to the accompaniment of Maggio’s 
orchestra. Prof. H. S. Hower was 
the toastmaster. The first speaker 
was F. I. Lawson, ’20, who gave the 
address of welcome to the initiates R. 
W. Schlumpf ’21, made the response 
for the new members. Dean W. E. 
Mott gave a talk on the ideals of Tau 
Beta Pi, scholarship, activities and 
personality. President Hammerschlag 
told of the plans of the school for the 
coming year. J. B. Carlock of Le­
high gave an account of his experi­
ences in France with the Chemical 
Warfare Division. He also told some 
very interesting stories about the 
darkies in France. Prof. Trinks told 
some of his experiences in his usual 
style. A. V. Loomis told what Tau 
Beta Pi means to the engineer. The 
initiates gave as their part of the 
program a Kipling reading by Blenko 
21 and a few songs by the whole 
group. The evening closed with a 
Tau Beta Pi song and cheer. The 
initiates are as follows: W. J. Blenko, 
L. E. Hawkins, J. K. W. Macalkine, 
M. H. Mawhinney, A. C. May, C. A. 
McDade, J. M. Monstream, F. A. Nic­
holson, C. E. Peterson, R. W. 
Schlumpf.----------a----------STRINGERS AGAIN ACTIVE.
Last Friday at the noon hour the 
famous M. M. “Stringers'’ furnished 
music for an informal dance in the 
recreation hall at M. M. A new cus­
tom of inviting men was established 
and bids fair to be a popular one. 
Quite a few of our fellow students 
accepted the invitation and apparent­
ly seemed to enjoy the fine music very 
much. The recreation hall was crowd­
ed which meant quite a goodly num­
ber of “fifteen cents-’es” to be con­
tributed as the “Stringers’ ” share to­
ward the Athletic Fund. The purpose 
of these dances, of which the one on 
Friday was the second, is to raise the 
sum promised by this organization to 
the Athletic Fund. Of course it is 
only this noble purpose which draws 
the crowd to their dances and not the 
peppy music which the “Stringers” 
furnish. However, for whatever rea­
son the crowd did come, they hugely 
enjoyed themselves and seemed will­
ing to vote the “Stringers” one of the 
best organizations in the school.----------0-----
¡mmm
NOTICE.
There will be a meeting of the | 
American Association of Engin- 1 
eers on Friday evening, March ,| 
26th, 8:00 to 10:30 p. m., in the | 
Flemish Room, Fulton Building. | 
This night will be known as g 
j{ “students’ night” and members jg 
m of the faculty and student body § 
a are invited to attend.
Lo& and Found
NOTE—Articles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
LOST—On Campus, Monday, March 
17, 1 small smooth-barrelled foun­
tain pen (Waterman self-filler). 
Please leave at Post Office. D. A. 
Hill.* * *
FOUND—Bunch of five keys, March
15. Apply Dean Tarbell’s office.* * *
LOST—Black chemistry note book 
from M. M. D. Return to Miss 
Moore,' Matron M. M. D.* * *
FOR SALE—Eastman Century Cam­
era, 4x5 in. Anastigmat lens. Takes 
film or plate. Inquire at Post Office.
If your fountain pen is in need of repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, dance programs, favors, special felt goods or Tech recognition pins, call at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in Jenkins Arcade.—Adv.
drawingSupplies-
A glance over our prices will convince you that you can buy high grade materials here at a saving.
STEINER & V0EGTLY
HARDWARE COMPANY
230-234 Diamond St., 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Spring Quarter Registration
Exhibition Hall -- Arts Building
All day students, in all Divisions are required to report for Regis­
tration and payment of quarterly fee of $25.00 on one of the following 
days:
March 24th, 25th, ,& 26th 0
9:30 A. M. to 11:30 A. M.
1:30 P.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Each student must present for identification the small card issued 
at the time of registration for the Winter Quarter. If this card 1ms 
been lost or mislaid a duplicate may he obtained from the nice of the 
Cashier.
The usual fee of $1.00 a day to a maximum of will be charged 
for late registration (exclusive of the holidays).
At the mass meeting of all Divisions on February 25th the student 
body voted that all men and women students in the day school, con­
tribute $5.00 to the capital fund of the Athletic Association, to be paid 
at the time of the Spring Quarter Registration.
The Cashier will be prepared to collect lathletic funds on the dates 
given above.
Federal Board Students
All students assigned to the Institute by the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education are required to register for the Spring Quarter 
in accordance with the above information and a record of the registra­
tion will be sent to the District Office of the Board.
No payment of fee is required of Federal Board Men, but a state­
ment of authorization to register must be secured in advance from the 
Office of the Dean of Men.
CALENDAR
March 27, Saturday—End of the Winter Quarter.
April 6, Tuesday—Classes begin—Spring Quarter.
May 31, Monday—National Holiday—No Classes.
June 7, Monday—Commencement.
June 19, Saturday—End of Spring Quarter.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
IllUIUIIIIIIlllUIIIIIIIIUIUUIIIIIUllllllllillUIIIU
“NATURALNESS”
Are you the victim of a set ex­
pression and poise created by your 
occupation, your work. Most people 
are. You can recognize a professional 
man, you know a school teacher, you 
can pick out an actor, you can tell 
a tradesman simply from his appear­
ance. A man maintains that frame of 
mind and presents that personality 
which is peculiar to his occupation. 
He does this to create an impression. 
He is set, expects everyone else, who 
will ever amount to anything to be 
the same and judges them according­
ly. If he meets a man who in passing 
conversation, talks lightly of respon­
sibility and jests much he concludes 
that he’s that kind of a fellow all 
the time, and condemns him. If he 
meets a man who in passing conver­
sation on a street car, tulks seriously 
of world affairs and economic condi­
tions, never venturing to smile, he con­
cludes that he’s that kind of a fellow 
all the time, and praises him. He en­
joys the first conversation and con­
demns the conversant, whereas he is 
not rested by the second conversa­
tion, yet praises his conversant.
One is always creating a momentary 
impression upon someone and it is 
generally upon someone who accepts 
this momentary impression as a per­
fect reflection of one’s life at all times. 
If two impressions are given, the word 
is most often accepted. This makes 
it impossible for a man to act natural.
It is natural for a man to laugh and 
jest in one hour and to be seriously 
occupied at another hour, but few 
people seem to realize it. To all but 
his immediate friends he is either a 
shallow jester, or a serious fool. And 
so one must assume a dignified poise 
and check his speech to the necessary 
in order to get respect and favorable 
comment from associates. This ap­
plies in business, in social life, even in 
blood relationship. It is unfortunate 
that this unnaturalness is necessary 
in business, but its necessity in social 
life and blood relationship is pathetic. 
To illustrate: Robert and I visited
our aunt, Robert was in good spirits, 
he jested, talked naturally and pleas­
antly. We all enjoyed the little time 
together and when he left my aunt 
said. Isn’t Robert terribly silly, I 
don’t see how he gets along in col­
lege. He is not nearly serious enough 
for a boy his age. The following Sun­
day we visited another aunt. Robert 
was feeling rather quiet that day. He 
was cordial, but formally so, and there 
in the company of my aunt and sev­
eral other women, Robert, my uncle 
and I talked seriously of current 
events and improvement in land val­
ues. The conversation was void and 
empty to my aunt. A smile very sel­
dom occurred and after Robert left 
my aunt said, Robex*t surely is a 
bright younk fellow, well read, and I 
bet he’ll make a wonderful business 
man.
Afterwards I gave Robert the bene­
fit of both comments and advised him 
to use that same unnatural dry poise 
everywhere among people in order to 
get respect. He uses it now always, 
unless he’s among most intimate as­
sociates. Many men who would like 
to be plain are surrounded with a for­
mal and cordial poise, with a set smile 
and positive expression, and many 
conversations, which should be for 
natural and simple recreation, are 
burdened with formality just because 
most people will not allow them to be 
plain and natural. I do not say all 
people, for there are some who realize 
that a man who is responsive to the 
inspirations and responsibilities in life 
must naturally be gay at one time 
and serious at another and that if he 
is gay at one time and serious at an­
other, he is natural, but with most 
people one must surround himself 
with a set poise and formality in order 
to get the respect upon which his 
livelihood depends. It is pathetic but 
true.
GOVERNMENT INSURANCE.
Announcement is made by Director 
R. G. Cholmeley-Jones of the Bureau 
of War Risk Insurance that the in­
surance division of the Bureau is vir­
tually at the end of its period of con­
gestion and consequently dissatisfac­
tion and vexatious delays, resulting 
from the great volume of work sud­
denly thrown upon it by the demobili­
zation of the armed forces during the 
past year.
Former service men whose insur­
ance has lapsed or has been canceled 
are encouraged to take advantage of 
the very liberal provisions for rein­
statement of War Risk insurance by 
the payment of two monthly premi­
ums with the application and a satis­
factory statement of health. They are 
assured that from now on, receipts for 
premiums will be sent to them within 
a few. days from the date of the orig­
inal receipt of the remittance. Instead 
of the form paragraphs and unsatis­
factory form letters which formerly it 
was, necessary to use to answer the 
flood of mail, they will be replied to 
with real letters in insurances cases 
which require detailed and specific 
answers.
The number of unposted premiums 
in the Bureau, which last October was 
approximately 88,000 has just been re­
duced to an average of 10,000 or less 
than one day’s work.
Unanswered mail in the insurance 
division shows a reduction of approxi­
mately GO per cent from thcd aily bal­
ance of five months ago. Probably it 
will be two or three weeks before it 
will be possible to answer all the let­
ters as quickly as it is now possible 
to mail out receipts for premiums, but 
it is a matter of only a few weeks be- 
bore the answering of all ordinary in­
quiries in reference to insurance mat­
ters within four days of their receipt 
in the Bureau will be the regular prac­
tice.
While some difficulties due to fail­
ure of service men to furnish serial 
numbers and other necessary infor­
mation always will be inevitable, very 
serious handicaps in the addressing of 
the men have been overcome. Through 
a special appropriation made by Con­
gress, the Bureau has been enabled to 
put its entire list of farmer service 
men on addressograph plate. This 
prevents errors that previously oc­
curred through repeated copying from 
the millions of records with type­
writers.
Former service men desiring to re­
instate War Risk Insurance which has 
lapsed or been canceled, or to convert 
their insurance in cases where it is 
now in force, should apply to any post 
of the American Legion, the Veterans 
of Foreign Wars, or other organiza­
tions of former service men, Army, 
Navy and Marine Corps recruiting 
stations, State Insurance Commis­
sioners, any home service section of 
the American Red-Cross, Salvation 
Army, Knights of Columbus, Jewish 
Welfare Board, Y. M. C. A., or to 
other fraternal or welfare organiza­
tions or agencies which are in a posi­
tion to furnish blanks and necessary 
information. Or, if they prefer to do 
so, they should write directly to the 
Insurance Division, Bureau of War 
Risk Insurance, Washington, D. C., in 
all cases furnishing the following six 
points of information for the identifi­
cation of their cases in the records:
1. Full name (including first, mid­
dle, and last name) and complete ad­
dress.
2. Rank, rating or grade at the 
time of original application for insur­ance.
3. Army or Navy organization at 
time of original application for insur­
ance.
4. The number qf insurance Cer­
tificate or Government Life Insurance 
Policy, if known.
5. Army Serial Number, if in the Army.
(5. Date of discharge, if discharged.
Service men whose insurance has
laped or has been canceled are re­
minded, however, that as long as they 
are without insurance, they are with­
out protection, and, in their own best 
interests, should apply for reinstate­
ment of their insurance without delav.
WITH OTHER COLLEGES.
At New York University a propos­
ed constitution of Student Organiza­
tion has been drawn up and will be 
voted on by the student body.* * *
The uncertainty which has .sur­
rounded the question of a baseball 
coach at Williams College, was clear­
ed up lately when it was learned that 
Harry Davis, formerly a member of 
the Philadelphia Athletics, will take 
the place of Ira Thomas, who is un­
able to keep his appointment with the 
Purple. Thomas has been excused for 
a year by the Williams authorities be­
cause of the fact that he has discover­
ed oil on his land in Louisiana and 
will have to spend all his time there. * + *
NewT York University has establish- 
a course in automotive motor engin­
eering. It is being taken by students 
in the engineering department, who
are being trained for construction
work, as well as for machine engineer­
ing and for production managers.* * *
Intercollegiate athletics, in the year 
of 1918-1919, cost Columbia the sum 
of $7,798.55, this being the deficit be­
tween the receipts and expenditures 
when balanced, according to a report 
by the athletic association. The in­
come from alumni, faculty and stu­
dents’ athletic fees was only slightly 
more than $8,100 and the total ex­
penses nearly ?1G,000. Track, base­
ball and crew were the heaviest losers, 
while football under the S. A. T. C. 
regime was the only sport to show 
a credit. The minor sports helped to 
make up the deficit.
The sophomores of Ursinus have 
received permission from the under­
graduate governing body to clip the 
hair of all freshmen unable to sing the 
College song.* * *
Foundations for three temporary 
engineering buildings at Delaware 
wore laid recently. These additions 
were made possible by a gift of $30,-
000 from Pierre S. DuPont.* # #
A n inter-fraternity basketball 
league is being formed at Lafayette 
to fill in the ncod of an organized 
sport left vacant by the disbanding 
of the varsity.* + *
An aviation club of all men former­
ly in the air servico of the army, 
has been organized at the University of Texas.* * *
Derby hats will be worn by the 
seniors of the University of Montana 
at the next scholastic championships 
to be held there. The avowed purpose 
is to inspire the prospective collogo 
man with the true dignity of tho Sen­
ior Class.* • *
A university press bureau, compos­
ed of students of the University of 
Washington, has boon organized to 
publish collogo news on billboards in 
the city of Seattle.* * *
Tho new pipe organ, tho gift of 
Miss Mary Colgate, has boon Installed 
in the University Chapel of Colgato 
University.* * *
Tho intercollegiate oratorical con­
test will bo held this year at Franklin 
and Marshall Collogo. Six colleges 
are now included in the association.. * * +
There has been a break in rela­
tions between Harvard and Boston 
Colloge. The split was brought about 
by Harvard’s refusal to put B. C. on 
the football schedule for 1920, ap­
parently.* * *
A total of 208 students woro 
dropped from Cornell University at 
the end of the first term. This is the 
largest number in the history of the 
University. The number was greatest 
with the freshman and decreased in 
order of classes. The greatest num­
ber was dropped from the Arts course.* # *
At Penn State, an upper classman 
may clip on the spot the locks of any 
Freshman found escorting a young 
lady. The chief criticism of the cus­
tom lately has been on the ground 
that some Freshmen have courted the 
penalty so as to appear martyrs in the 
eyes of the fair damsels.* * *
With Dayton as the center, all high 
schools of Ohio, Indiana and Ken­
tucky, within a radius of 75 miles, will 
be eligible to compete for these cups. 
There will be two classes of high 
schools, A and B. Class A will in­
clude schools having an enrollment of 
800 students and over; Class B, less 
than 800 students.
Fred R. Schwendt, of Pittsburgh, 
has again broken the world's record 
for the distance plunge, by plunging 
82 feet and 9 inches. This exceeded 
his former record by three inches and 
displaced one of 14 years standing.* * *
Columbia’s enrollment of 20,000 stu­
dents indicates that her lead, in size 
anyway, among Amei'ican Universities 
will be maintained. Most of the new 
men were admitted under the psycho­
logical tests which have been develop­
ed there.* * #
Lake Erie College for Women ER 
completing a new $176,000 gymnas­
ium. It is modern in design and pur­
pose, having a standard sixe swim­
ming pool, bov/ling alleys, amateur 
stage and a double story gymnasium 
floor. With this building on the camp­
us next year, the athletic season bids 
fair to be a record one for Lake Erie.
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PHNN AND F° * MK9TOWN AVHNUE8
W.50 to $16.50 $
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE jjj EXPENSE by buying better [jj shoes. You will find them far W cheaper to wear than shoes S; which are not so high in quality. $ 
Our new models for FALL and ij WINTER are now In, and they cj are full of snap—Just suitable | ( for the collcge man. ?'i !
RQ9iiiBwmnn»imKiiiNav(rjft>w]!uni!¡t¡uin!]!m!iiivniRViiii!!a!iii!!nnni
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candyiy I
WKUsä
1 TECH BARBER SHOP . j¡J NEAREST TO TECH j
& Cor. Craig and Forbes i
¡! FRED FARGEL, Proprietor. fjj
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Si. Agency.
%THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Relic field 
Shoe Repairing Co.
W Acroiis from the Library w
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
AcesHories For Kent
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
'1()(¡ 1’lllnliiirnll tifi) lltilliliiiu
PITTSBURGK, l’A.
Hell rimilo 1254 SFNCCJ
niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii¡iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiüj
1 C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBE8 8TREET 
TECH A PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Ponn.
£ TRANSIT8 AND LEVEL8t) ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE r 1DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, Inatru- ment3 of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN ANP CHINESE 
RESTAURANT’
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.

---------------------------------------------------

Î>AGE SIX.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 192Ô.
  »    . _ ..... .. _   „ _ _
MENS FURNISHSNGS
'. 6 100 PENN AVENÜE. Æ
At the Theatres
Nationally 
Known in 
Know Time
Bevo has become the best 
friend of food and fellow­
ship.
Drink it for its purity 
and deliciously appetizing 
flavor.
At the soda fountain or 
with your mealc.
Bevo must be served cold.
i/j®dVJr For r°sy cheeks, w happy smiles, white 
teeth, stood appetites 
and digestions.
Its benefits are as GREAT 
as Its cost is SMALL!
.IRTUVTPHYUVŒRh VrM iaUCV
It satisfies the desire for 
sweets, and is beneficial, too.
it must be
Ice Go idSealed Tight Kept Right
Sold (*v(*pyvvhc*r<»- families supplicali!' grocer drurfçfîst «in !
dcalor-- Visitors *j : * cordially invslfd R t imped (¦¦ . ..I .
The
Flavor
Lasts
A12
“After
Every
Meal”
Ü WRIGLEY5J I
I >, a CNC n)OX)WK -LoDRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.GRAND THEATRE.
Tho. problem of tho after life— 
which has troubled humanity through­
out tho ages—is considered with se­
rious and interesting effect in David 
W. Griffith's latest big production, 
“The Greatest Question”, which will 
head the bill at Pittsburgh’s New 
Million Dollar Grand all next week, 
starting Monday Morning, March 21). 
Griffith months ago, when lie began to 
plan for “The Greatest Question”, 
seemed to sense the interest that was 
growing throughout the civilized 
world in psychic questions. He saw 
that befor elong people every where 
would he giving extensive considera­
tion to the possibility of communica­
tion between those of this life and 
those of the next. So he made the 
subject an interesting phase of his 
picture. The main tneme of the story,1 
however,, is provided by the experi- ene of a young girl who has hired 
herself out to a brutal couple in order 
to bring financial help to the family 
that has adopted her. The picture is 
a powerful drama, done with the deli­
cacy and artistry that characterize all 
of Griffith's offerng.s. Griffith seems 
to know better than anyo ther pro­
ducer the importance of little things 
in showing emotion. Without having 
his actors tear about and register this 
and that in elemental ways, he brings 
supreme feeling out of the appearance 
of the eyes, or the shaking of a hand. 
With the group of stars whom he him­
self has trained, he gets results that 
no other director seems able to obtain 
—powerful results that stir one to the 
very depths.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night Phone—Neville 1536-W.
ELDORADO
l/ie master drawing pencil'
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixon’s 
Eldorado is a friend to be 
proud of.
v JOSI-.PII D1X.ON CRUCIBLliCO. A 
\ IVm ¡1 Dcpi. Jersey City, N. J. M
17 111 tick J)iiarmI Copying
LEADSonti forooaiynimd or prt'faronca —
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO
217 Fifth Avenue, N. Y,
DO YOU DANCE?
CLA88 AND PRIVATE 
DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
DANCING LE8SON8
IMPORTANT MEETING OF 
NEWMAN CLUB.
The Newman Club will hold the 
most important-meeting of the year 
next Sunday in the Cathedral High 
School, Craig St., at three o’clock. 
The election of a vice-president for 
the remainder of this year will take 
place. Nominations made at the last 
meeting were Miss Margaret King of 
Pitt, Mr. George Eppler of Tech and 
Mr. Ed. B. Nagle of Pitt. Nomina­
tion of officers for next year will take 
place next Sunday and every Tech 
member should be represented. Other 
important business matters are to be 
discussed. In the line of social ac­
tivities, plans are to be discussed for 
a dance to be held shortly after 
Easter. Owing to the closing of 
school a great many Tech people will 
be out. of the city and in the face o'f 
this fact; every Tech member of the 
club who can possibly do so should 
be at tho meeting.
©—Tho student body at the University 
of Oklahoma have put themselves on 
record as strongly opposed to giving 
light penalties after a record of guilty 
has been returned, according to the 
honor system now in vogue.. They 
are strongly in favor of recommend­
ing the separation from the univer­
sity of any student violating the honor 
system. In this way they hope to 
make the students feel more keenly 
the responsibility placed upon them.
MARKTRADE
MOST men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. 
There’s comfort, contentment', real satisfaction and 
economy in a good pipe. YV D C Pipes give you this, and 
more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French 
briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a good shape 
at your nearest dealer’c, at your price.
WM. DEMUTH 8< CO...NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST •'"'MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
BATTERY
Broad and Sheridan Avc. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
JüjXiae
SERVICE
Ball Phones 571 £ 9169 Schenley 
P. A A. 1002-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and 8hlppe*d.
In order to encourage football in 
high school, tlu'v"M” association of 
Miami University has inaugurated a 
movement to purchase two sterling 
silver trophy cups to be presented to 
the two high school football teams 
making the best annual records, be­
ginning with the coming season.Send in Your News Items
