TRACK MEET«
WESTMINSTER
ISATURDAYMAY 12
CARNEGIE QUARTERN 
25c"Î
THURSDAYMAY 10 j
VOL. XXII NO. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1928
ACHIEVE/WENT TEST 
FOR SENIOR CLASS 
CONCLUDED TODAY
Strain of Campus Week May 
Prevent C. I. T. Seniors From 
Attaining Highest Standing
SENIORS INTERVIEW 
DEPARTMENT HEADS
TRI-PUBLICATION STAFF TO 
MEET AT NOON TOMORROW Memories of Campus Week to Sustain
Students During Black Coffee DaysA meeting of the complete Tri-Pub­
lications staff including members of 
the editorial, the business and the cir­
culation departments, will be held to­
morrow, at one O’clock, in the Tri- 
Publications office. Carnegie stu­
dents. especially freshmen, who are 
desirous of securing places on the 
1928-29 staff must be present at this 
meeting as the work of organizing the 
staff for next year is to begin imme­
diately.
Achievement Tests Will be 
lowed by Seniors’ Final 
Exams
Campus Week has: come and gone. 
The basis of the Carnegie calendar 
has been passed and the road before 
us presents a barren journey and 
foretells of the student’s- thirst for 
knowledge and hunger for sleep. But 
while he sleeps over his books and 
consumes huge, quantities of black
The Tri-Publications staff is now iooiIee !>' Prei>aratton for the final ex-animation, his mind will wander back 
to the time of the Ninth Campus 
Week, when jojr was King, and Betty
_ i necessary part of every freshman's ac*(l®jl- Queen.
Fo>- equipment, is published yearly by the I „ H,e '«11 recollect Carnegie's Bunion| Derby, called the Migratory Dance 
j wherein damsels and lads leaped 
! hither and
engaged in the editing and publishing 
| of the Hand "Book, better known as 
! the Plebe Bible. This clever book, a
The Senior achievement tests that 
were started yesterday will be con­
cluded today. Carnegie Seniors are 
sorely at a disadvantage because of all 
the excitement caused by Campus 
Week. Not looking for an alibi, or the 
like, if Carnegie does not succeed in 
accomplishing in these tests what it 
should, but with fond thoughts of the 
past week, who could ever give them­
selves full justice in the task thrown 
before them? After this excitement is 
over, the Seniors may look for more 
in the Senior final examinations which 
will start on May 21 and will con­
tinue until May 26. Then if every­
thing is favorable to the Seniors con­
cerned they will prepare for their 
commencement exercises which will 
take place in June on the day of 
days after which the thoughts and 
memories of school days will be of 
the past.
The members of the Senior Class 
were excused from all' other class 
exercises during these tests. In con­
junction with these tests personal in­
terviews with the seniors were con­
ducted by the Department Heads of 
the respective schools in which the 
student concerned is enrolled.
The information which is being 
gathered is to be used for statistical 
purposes only so as to aid the educa­
tional department in the development 
of a better systm for conducting 
higher learning.
The proposal first made in August, 
1926, by the Pennsylvania Joint Com­
mission to the Carnegie Foundation 
for th:e Advancement of Teaching 
that it appoint representatives to 
conduct a study of the Relations of 
Secondary and Higher Education in 
the State of Pennsylvania was ac­
cepted with the understanding that 
active operations would be deferred 
until certain other studies then be­
fore the Enquiry Division of the 
Foundation had been completed. 
From the time that is was suggested, 
however, the project has received
using bologney was particularly hu­
morous in this land of fraternity poli­
tics and log-rolling. He will remem­
ber tlie sweepstakes with men and 
cars which did not choose to run and 
with huge amounts of money and car 
tokens changing at the finish.
Of course he will remember the 
vaudeville show, with its exhibition of 
milk-fed calves and its collection of 
very much embryo actors. And 
thoughts of the R. O. T. C. and the 
latest thing in officers and riding 
boots which have never come closer 
to members of the equine family than 
on a merry-go-round.
And Coronation—that, was beauti-Tri-Publications staff and distributed
without cost to the students at regis- ..... , . . .tration time. hither and yon in searcn of jazz, > ful, A lovely scene of a fat man part
Besides the Hand Book, the Tri- | Pal’king space, and the cup that cheers, j ing his hair in the middle and a girl 
Publications staff is responsible for I He " m atoo remember the ceremoni- j in a picture hat. Coronation Dance, 
the Carnegie Song Book, which con- ! °us. c®r°™0,n/’ whlch tlle I,lebe5 ! "herG ,he «ft-quoted physics problem 
tains the words and music of all Car- I b“ned 0 d Mtt” Reflations with tears . about an irresistible body meeting an
. , . . , . p., . , r . ! Of rftffl'P.I. ¡111(1 wails of T-Tpv * «IV * I imnimroMn hnfli» «roe nnonfn/l Pn»> flmnegie s songs, and for the Student Di­
rectory, which gives the names, ad­
dresses and other information about 
all the men and women registered at 
Carnegie.
Kappa Sigs Win Men’s 
Sweepstaks A gain -
Three Minutes, Four Seconds 
Is New Time Set in Five 
Heat Trials
The Interfraternity Sweepstakes, 
came to an end Friday morning with 
Kappa Sigma winning the finals 
again this year, the time being 3 
minutes, 4 2-5 seconds.
This year’s speed times cannot be 
compared with those of last year 
since a new course was taken. This 
time can be used as a. precedent for 
the future, but not as a comparison. 
For the last three j'ears something 
has been changed so that it has been 
impossible to compare the times of 
the race. Year before last the course 
was completed around Woodlawn ave­
nue and ending in front of Margaret 
Morrison, and the race consisted of 
four pushers. Pi Kappa Alpha won 
that year. The next year the course 
was unchanged, but an additional
of regret and wails of Hey! Hey 
His memory will bring back those 
freshman collegiannas in various 
shades of white, including the pecu­
liar white sometimes called green, 
who threw flowers into the grave and 
glances of demure innocence into the 
crowds.
He will recall that the clowns weld­
ing the Carnegie chain of friendship.
“CARNEGIE QUARTERLY” 
TO APPEAR THIS THURS.
Literary Magazine Including Variety 
of Material Will Make Debut
immovable body was enacted for the 
benefit of committeemen and cloak 
checkers.
All this and more will be remem­
bered but nothing about squaring in­
finity or a description of the only 
quartic in captivity. He will succumb 
to the onslaughts of the faculty and 
go down shouting, “Hey! Hey! 
Wahoo.”
PLEBES PLAN STEAMER TEA
DANCE FOR M. M/S SATURDAY
On Saturday, May 12, the M. M. C. 
C. freshmen are giving a tea dance to 
the upper classmen of their school. 
The dance will be in the form of a 
boating party on board the steamer, 
“Julia Belle.’’ Thô boat will leave the 
dock promptly at 2:30 p. in. to make 
a short trip down the river, and will 
return to her moorings at 5 p. m. All 
M. M. C. C. upper classmen are in­
vited, and are requested to bring an 
escort. For those who wish to dance 
tliere will be a six-piece orchestra 
playing on one of the decks.
Never in all the annals of Carnegie ( 
Institute has an affair like this one ! 
been given. Everyone is looking for- | 
Avard to it with a groat amount of j 
pleasure and anticipation.
The committee in charge of the | 
dance is working under Miss Ann j 
Dickenson, social chairman of the 
freshman class. The members of the 
committee are Miss Anna Jane Mor­
gan, Miss Miriam Donaldson and Miss 
Josephine Sonneborn.
H0N0RARIES CALL 
CLASS LEADERS AT 
QUALIFICATIONS
Outstanding Men and Women 
Rewarded for Faithful Service 
During Present School Year
BURIAL REGULATIONS 
IS PART OF CEREMONY
Plebes Welcomed to Carnegie Clan; 
’31 Link Welded to Tradi- 
tional Chain
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW VERY 
SUCCESSFUL AT GAYETY
Entire Cast Does Splendidly Before 
Crowds; Imps Furnish Music
“The Carnegie Quarterly,” the first j Carnegie’s 
literary magazine of such quantity and j c]0a0(i jast 
variety material on the campus, will I
appear this Thursday, May 10. Mate-
pusher was added to the four used in . . ,, T- rj.___ from both the men s and the women sprevious years and Kappa Sigma 1
Ninth Campus Week 
Friday night with the 
I presentation of “Wedding Bells" at 
rial for it will include contributions Ithc Gayety Theater. The first per- 
of technical as well as literary nature, I formance of the play was given on 
and students from each school have I Thursday night before a very appro- 
made acceptable offerings. . .. ,,H ciative audience, proving an instantSince the demise of the Shilling ¿uc<je8B 
and the cessation of the Technical I, '.........
Journal which was managed entirely K The comedy by Salisbury Hold, 
by women on the campus, Carnegie filled with sparkling lines and amus-
has had no school magazine of liter 1 ing situations, was made more en*
ary pretension......Tin:.- On:- >i i In­
filling ftll the intentions of the Shilling j <mst. Excellent throughout., the cast 
and is not only taking on the added I gave.a finished presentation comparu 
responsibility of larger size and ¡lrle to many successful comedies seen
greater variety of material but in- in Pittsburgh during the regular
eludes in its staff representations | theatrical season. Under the direc-
won by a long margin. This year! schools. This of necessity will makelion of Chester Wallace of the Drama' 
Department every element of the pro-
changed, but the course was 
routed over the new Frew street back ;
standard of the Drama Department., 
conceded to be one of the outstanding 
ones in the country.
Attendance at the several perform- 
unces was very good. Although th>
careful study, and the Foundation ! was the car entered by Sigma Alpha
was already prepared to offer for | Epsilon. After a long debate by the
consideration a plan by which the j judges who were deciding between
seniors were tested. the two factors of award—beauty and
PRESIDENT’S REVIEW HELD 
FRIDAY MORNING OF C.W.
tn- ^ ^le HC°f)e ^l'® magazine larger. De-, duction bore testimony to the high j pertinents included in the book are 
several. They include show reviews 
of Arts school, and ended at the in-1 o£ Productions current along Broad- 
tersection with Tech street. Kappa I '’ootrf thf has been written by
Sigma won again by a very good mar-1 ftuf6,lta1 , 11 l>n,th »« conventional 
gin, with Sigma Nu following second . yr c !U'd lhe "¦odernintic manner; ar- ho„8e wa„ not filled each night, thc
and the Phi Kappa entry running a tlcles of contemporary interest, which j audiences were very appreciative. On
are neither frothy nor depressing: | student night the cast playing to a
dialogues of skill and humor; essays i i„n house wore encouraged to their
of the familiar and personal types and j best performance. While each mem-
short stories of considerably interest., j |)or of the cast merited praise, Irene
These stories may be well indicative j Tedrow as a wife who recaptured her
of the presence of artistic technique ( husband by tile most refined ingenuity
and of the appeal of their subject mat­
ter. Only the
close third. 
The winnerof the design trophy
mechanical perfection—the mechani­
cal qualities won'- out and S. A. E. 
acquired the cup. Phi Sigma Kappa 
was awarded first on design alone; 
but, since only one cup was offered, 
did not receive a trophy.
The preliminaries were run off
Only the cream of the efforts 
submitted have been considered for 
publication by the judges. These 
judges are of such variance of opin­
ion as to insure fair treatment of ma­
terial. This material will occupy but 
48 pages ''instead of G4 as was origi­
nally intended. Plans had gone
The annual President’s Review held during Campus WeS is becoming j Thursday afternoon in a series of
more one of the major attractions of | four^heat!3 conftwy to through for using G4 pages up untilthe holiday period. The crowd which i intention ot maKmg it tniee neats. . 
turned out for the drill last Friday Tile first heat got under way at ap- 
was fine proof of this fact. ¡.proximately 4:30 o’clock; and at the
The review began at 11:30 and the j top of the first long grind, Tech 
companies marched on the Cut and i street, Kappa Sigma was leading with 
after following the Kiltie Band took | Alpha Tan Omega and Kappa 
up positions facing the walk. The I Sigma Rho second and third, 
band provided the marching music, j The finish was not in quite the 
The Kiltie Band might also be called ! same, for Sigma Plii_ Epsilon moved 
the R. O. T. C. Band for considerably I up into third place. Kappa Sigma and 
more than half of the members are Alpha Tau Omega held their positions 
also enrolled in the R. O. T. C. unit. 1 as first and second. The winning time 
After playing the "Alma Mater" dur- j of *he heat was 3 minutes, 8 3-d
ing which the entire battalion stood 
at attention the band played another 
number wdiile President Baker and 
the reviewing party made a short in­
spection of the battalion. In the re­
viewing party were President Baker, 
the honorary cadet officers, Colonel 
Church, Commander Yaras of the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, Pittsburgh 
Post; Colonel Fitzgerald, Major Bain, 
Colonel Dunlop, Major Tasdor and Col­
onel Fairley, superintendent of
grounds of Carnegie.
After the inspection Commander 
Yaras presented Bartlett F. Carley, 
major of the Carnegie Battalion, with 
a handsome engraved saber. The bat­
talion then passed in review, marched 
off the Cut and down Woodland ave­
nue to the lawn in front of the Scobell 
Hall. There while the men stood at 
“present arms" and the Kilties played 
“The Star Spangled Banner,’’ a flag 
was raised on the new flag pole on 
Scobell Terrace. The ceremony was 
similar to that followed at all regular 
army posts. Sergeants Simpson and 
Moyer, both dormitory men, performed 
the actual flag raising ceremony.
During the flag raising two army 
planes flew over the campus quite 
(Continued on Page Two).
seconds.
The second heat began by Sigma Nu 
(Continued on Page Two.)
New Members Of Student 
Council To Meet May 15
The new Student Council will at­
tend its first meeting on May 15 when 
it meets jointly with the old council. 
On May 22 the new council takes 
complete charge of Student Council 
affairs. The list which follows is the 
new council. John C. Stauffer has 
been elected its president, and the 
other officers will take their places 
according to the rules of the council. 
The list Is complete, with one or two 
exceptions:
Industries—C. V. Letzelter, Harvey 
White, J. H. Seibert, Roy Waterson, 
Phil Hubbard.
Science—Stewart Ralston, W. G. 
Carson, Connelly, George Wile, Gim- 
mel, M. M. Gilchrest.
Margaret Morrison — Henrietta Ac- 
cipiter, Annabelle Turner, Mary A. 
James, Margaret Wagely.
Arts—John C. Stauffer, Ralph Hitch­
cock, John Barr, Richard Deverell.
played a difficult role with exception­
al ability and charm. Tom Lewis 
also showed his ability in his role 
lending much spirit to the presenta­
tion. T^ie other members of the cast, 
all of whom performed their part;* 
with great credit to themselves, were 
Carleton Young, Margaret Wertz. 
Florence Wakefield, Ruth Aston, Ar­
thur Sprenkle, William . McDermott, 
short time ago, when it was discov- j and Frank Sullivan, 
ered that the capacity of one printed j Much .praisp is due Misses Marjorie 
page was much larger than had been j Bartholomew and Ellen Michie for the 
anticipated. This necessitated cut- j splendid success which the show 
ting down the magazine one-fourth i proved to be. Every element of the 
and the reduction in price from thirty-1 production showed the care with 
five to twenty-five cents. j which the play was prepared. A1
Besides the immediate staff of the ¡ Brown’s work as business manager of 
magazine which includes Walter j the show also deserves note. The 
Browne Rogers as Editor-in-Chief; change made this year, in having 
Margaret Russell as M. M. Associate three evening performances, proved
Success of Ninth 
Campus Week Due 
To Organization
Perfect Weather Brings Big 
Turnout to Make Frolic 
Highly Enjoyable
Editor; Henry Bunker, Jr., as Asso- an advantageous change, 
ciate Editor from Engineering; Har- The Collegiate Imps, the well-known 
old Jacobson as Associate Editor from j campus orchestra, furnished the music 
Arts; and Elmer Normandeau as As between acts._at all of the perform- 
sociate Editor from the Industries; • ances.
there-are many to whom success for ------------------------------
the magazine is partially due. Of the KILTIE BAND RECORDS NOW 
faculty Mr. Long, Mr. Weaver and I OFFERED FOR SALE AT GYM
Mr. Blair, all of the English depart- i ---------
ment have loaned advisory assistance Phonograph recordings of music by 
(Continued, on Page Two). , the Kiltie Band are on sale at the
Due to the well-planned organization 
which Gfeneral Chairman Bill Kunkel 
had built up, the Nintl> Campus Week 
wont down into Carnegie history as 
one of the’ best ever. With perfect 
summer .weather in the daytime and 
a full moon shining down in the even­
ing the setting for Carnegie’s tradi­
tional spring carnival was unequalled. 
The lighting effects, arranged by Eta 
Kappa Nu honorary olectrical frater­
nity, made the campus a scone of 
sparkling beauty and attractiveness. 
The utter absence of decorations was 
unnoticed as a result of these Hr,htin;*, 
effects.
With the migratory dance Campus 
Wook was born, and the huge crowds 
which danced to t.ho music of superb 
bands and orchestras assured a suc­
cessful life. The June night brought 
out fhe migrators and every one 
chased around to hear and see every­
thing.
In thc morning of Thursday those 
who could be nrousod atfondod the 
Vaudeville Show at Carnegie Music 
Hall where beauty, comedy, and 
rhythm In various combinations, per­
formed for an appreciative and largo 
audience. In the afternoon Qualifica­
tions and calls1 wore hold and then 
the fraternities competed for a design 
cup awarded for the best designed, 
pushmobile. Models either brightly 
paintod or presenting only the sheen 
of the metal used In construction were 
bulft according to the newest designs 
of custom body builders with stream­
lines, small wheels, ahd underslung 
bodies. The array of cars made 
judging' difficult and Lhe prize was 
awarded to Phi Sigma Kappa. The 
preliminaries of the Inter Fraternity 
Sweepstakes were then held and the 
cars for the finals selected.
The Coronation was a medieval 
sketch in which the loveliness of Bet­
ty McFadden, Campus Queen, was 
very evident. Immediately after­
wards the Coronation dance was held 
j in the Union and Gym where the 
crowd danced in semi-darkness 
colorful lighting.
On Friday morning the much-an- 
ticipated sweepstakes were held, and 
the Kappa Sigs proved to be the best 
combination of brawn, speed, and ma­
chine design. Before the sweep­
stakes the Arts Commuters won the 
(Continued on Page Two)
The Campus Week Qualifications 
ceremony which took place last Fri­
day afternoon was a most impressive 
affair. At 1:30 p. m. the Plebes gath­
ered in front of the Central Building 
and marched to the open-air theater, 
the scene of the ceremony. Here, 
"Old Man Plebe Regulations” was lakl 
to rest by the class of ’31. After the 
casket was buried the ' Plebes filed 
past, each one depositing some re­
membrance of regulations, such as 
krm-barids, dinks, black ties, etc., into 
tne grave. The class of ’31 was then 
welcomed into the Carnegie Clan by 
Donald Putt., retiring president of 
Student Council. The Freshman re­
sponse was made by Latham Flanni- 
gan. The next thing on the program 
was the welding of the ’31 link to the 
chain. This was accomplished by 
means of a tomporary forgo and anvil 
erected on the spoL The work wu» 
done by two exceptional forgers of the 
Freshmen Class.
After the link was welded to tlia 
chain, the “Campus Cops” put on ;.i 
burlesque burial of “John Barleycorn,.” 
which proved very amusing to tine as- 
sembled crowd. The well-known A3 
Minetti playod the leading part in tho 
fa reo.
'I'hls concludevi, the most import­
ant part of (he program began—tho 
"calls ’ of the various honorary frater­
nities. They were, made by .Tamea 
Aunt raw, president, of the Dragona, 
and were extended to those men ami 
women who distinguished themselves 
during the year, in service to th« 
school.
The first call svas made lJ^ ìVfòWar 
Board, women's national sènior hon­
orary. Those called excelled In .-;<:lioi- 
arshlp and activities. They were: 
Henrietta. Accipeter, Florence Bright, 
Mary Alice Bright, Gladys Connor, 
Miriam Cupps, Jeannette Kolmar, 
Sally Hullok, Evalyn Goldenson, Bar- 
j bara Ron wink, Dorothy Boy, freno 
j Tedrow, and Gertrude Zonk.
The next call was made by Dragone, 
men’s senior honorary. The follow­
ing men excelled in activities and 
leadership: Walter Bronson, Ray­
mond Buckley, William Carson, How­
ard Harpster, Ralph Hitchcock, Cyril' 
Letzelter, Thomas Pratt, Stewart- 
Ralston, John Stauffer, James Seibert 
and Harvey White.
Delta Skull, men’s junior honorary 
called the following men: Thomas.
Brown, William Brown, Thomas Lip- 
pert, Jules Bond, George Konnedy 
Philip Hubbard, George Becker, Jo­
seph Bush, Thomas Connelly, Russell 
Loxtermann, Thomas Etheridge, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
SHAUGHENCY ELECTED CAP­
TAIN OF SCABBARD AND BLADE
j Graduate Manager’s office in the Gym. 
I On one side of the record • are the
Tech’
"On Carnegie” and "Dear Old 
and on the other side is Wil-
The Scabbard and Blade, military | l)l“' Scott’s new "Carnegie March.”
The records were made by the New 
York Phonographic Recording Com­
pany of New York City. The record­
ing took place on Thursday, March 
22 in the Langley Lab, the band being 
under the direction of Sully. Making 
the record took three hours of con-
honorary fraternity, at their Iast meet­
ing on Tuesday elected Harvey C. 
Shaughency captain; Edwin M. Stitt, 
first lieutenant; W. M. McNeill, sec­
ond lieutenant, and Clarence W. Red­
stone, first sergeant.
Shaughency is a football letter man,
and a member of Beta Tlieta Pi, Min-. centrated efforts and this 1» reflected 
ing Engineering. Stitt, an Architect, j In the quality of the record. A ship- 
i8 a student officer in the R. O. T. C. ment of 200 records was received and 
McNeill is a printer, Pi Kappa | a large number have been sold. The 
Alpha, editor of Tri-Publications, man- j price of the records Is $1.00 and those 
aging editor of the Tartan, manager j who wish to have the records sent 
of freshman cross country. Pledged , should send money for mailing 
Pi Delta Epsilon and a member of In- charges. When the present shipment 
dustries Senate. | is sold, another lot will be ordered if
Redstone is an Electrical Engineer. ‘ the demand warrants It.
and
1928 Campus Squeak Gains 
Praise For Clean Humor
CORONATION AND DANCE 
VERY WELL ATTENDED
For the third consecutive year the 
Campus Week publication, the 
“Squeak,” made Us appearance each 
day of the festival. However, since 
there were only two days of celebra­
tion, only two issues of the '‘Squeak” 
were distributed, whereas In 102<i and- 
1027 three numbers were published. 
The purpose of the "Squeak" this year 
as in the past Is to keep the students 
Informed of what Is happening on the’ 
campus, but all reports and descrip­
tions of the festivities are written in 
a humorous veJn. To carry out fur­
ther the Idea of gaiety prevalent dur­
ing Campus Wook, the “Squeak” is 
printed on colored paper. This year 
the copies sold on Thursday were plnlc 
while those distributed Friday were 
sprlng-llke In color.
The Squeak, as usual, was pub- 
(Continued on Page Two).
Campus Week Is over and on Thurs­
day evening. Betty McFadden was 
crowned Queen of Carnegie's Nintb 
Campus Week. The coronation was 
held p,t 0:30 on the steps of Machinery 
Hall and the Coronation dance started 
immediately afterward. General cam­
pus opinion seems to approve heartily 
the change in the setting and time of 
the ceremony. The steps of Machin­
ery Hall are a typical Carnegie scene, 
and ono which every student remem­
bers; and in addition ample’space ia 
provided for a satisfactory view by 
those attending. The change in time 
was especially agreeable to people 
whose parents or friends were here 
for Campus Week, and while they did 
not care to dance they were not forced 
to stay up till midnight to soo tho 
coronation. The one disadvantage in 
holding the ceremony before the dance 
was that the entire crowd headed for 
the dance floors Immediately aftor tho 
affair, with the rosult that both floors 
were over-crowded.
Tho dance was a great success, al­
though It. can never fill the vacancy 
loft by flic Mardl Gras. The Colle­
giate Imps, who played in the vaude­
ville In the morning, provided the mu­
sic in tho gym and were enjoyed by ail 
attending. The lighting in the gyre 
was quite novel and certainly was 
diversion from the usugd method ' 
decoration. Spotlights focused on t 
center of the gym and -’ried witl* 
(Continued on T, -o).

---------------------------------------------------

o
PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 8. 1928
Orchestra Concert Makes 
Favorable Impression
The Carnegie Quarterly 
Needs Alumni Support
ALUMNI ATTENDANCE 
AT NINTH CAMPUS WEEK 
ACTIVITIES IS SMALL
'CARNEGIE 'QUARTERLY" TO
APPEAR THIS THURSDAY
PRESIDENT’S’ REVIEW HELD 
FRIDAY MORNING OF C.The Ladder
(Continued From Page One.) 
close to the ground. Each of the 
planes carried as a passenger, a Car­
negie student in the R. O. T. C. Most 
of the audience probably did not rea­
lize that this was prearranged.
(Continued From Page One) 
to the project and contributions in 
literary form. Students interested 
have manifested great capability in 
collection material and aiding the 
staff in selecting such material.
Appearance of the Quarterly will 
again bring pressure to bear on the 
attitude of the Carnegie Campus as 
a whole to student literary pursuits. 
For with this publication complete in 
itself as the type of college magazine 
it portends to be will come evidence 
of the desire on the part of students 
to maintain an organ of popular ex­
pression which is at the present un­
doubtedly lacking to a school of tlii3 
size. Support of a financial nature 
must necessarily be assured by the 
student body, in order to place the 
publication on a permanent and work­
ing basis. Fair judgment must also 
be asked of everyone so that true re­
action may be gauged by. the staff. 
With the delayed appearance of the 
magazine occurring two days away it- 
remains but for the student body to 
support the magazine, to buy the mag­
azine, and to be wholly impartial to 
the first attempt of such tremendous 
import on this campus' and as earnest 
in its maintenance of the magazine as 
the staff has been in compiling it.
A Carnegie man has become a well 
lenown motion picture director In 
Now York City. Frank Strayer who 
directed Wallace Beery and Raymond 
Hatton’« picture, "Partners In Crime" 
attended the Arts School from 1912 
to 1914. Before that time he went to 
the Pennsylvania Military Academy.
When the war broke out. Strayer. en­
listed in the navy, won his commis­
sion and saw service In the transport 
service. After the war he became 
a projectionist In a Now York moving 
picture laboratory. He then became 
in turn,„assistant director, film cutter 
and finally a full pledged director.
After directing “Sweet Rosie 
O’Grady1’ he received nation wide ap­
proval. The next picture he directed 
was Clara Bow In “Rough House 
Rosie” for Paramount. When Wal­
lace Beery and Raymond Hatton start­
ed to make “Now We're In the Air" 
Strayer won the directing assignment 
and his success In this led to his di­
rection ,oE “Partners in Crime.”
The Carnegie Quarterly which will 
appear this week will need the sup­
port of the alumni as well as that of 
the student body. An order blank is 
on this page for those who wish to 
subscribe to the new magazine. As 
many copies as are desired can be se­
cured for twenty-five cents each. These 
blanks should be mailed to the ad­
dress given as soon as possible.
The Carnegie Quarterly, Carnegie’s 
new literary magazine, is definitely 
scheduled to make its initial appear­
ance on the Campus on May 10. The 
intention of putting the magazine on 
sale during Campus Week was aban­
doned because the staff felt that the 
appearance of the magazine was an 
event which, in the preoccupation of 
students during Campus Week, might 
not receive the attention it needs and 
merits.
Due to the tremendous amount of 
material which can be printed on a 
single page, the staff has found it pos­
sible to compress the entire amount 
of material, which it was at first be­
lieved would fill 64 pages into a maga- 
zone of 48’ pages.
It is perhaps difficult for the alumni 
¦to realize the earnestness with which 
the Quarterly is regarded by the staff. 
To them, as to all the people deeply 
interested in the success of the maga­
zine, the undertaking is a tremendous 
project, which will perhaps determine 
finally whether Carnegie Tech needs 
and wants a magazine of literary 
merit. The Quarterly is in every 
sense of the phrase, an All-Carnegie 
magazine.
Local Graduates Form Bulk of 
Alumni Attendance at C. W. 
FunctionsDr. Francis M. Walters presented 
a paper at the recent meeting of the 
American Physical Society, which was 
held in Washington, D. C.The alumni attendance at Campus 
Week was not nearly up to that of 
former years, and the majority of 
those who did attend were local 
alumni.
The alumni office sold 121 sets of 
tags, which means that at least that 
many aluninl attended. Also there 
were sold abut 175 show tickets to 
the alumni. This does not compare 
very favorably with an attendance of 
nearly 500 last year. This may be 
attributed in part to the fact that no 
reunions or special luncheons were 
held this year.
Tt must have been noticeable to any 
of the upperclassmen that the lack of 
alumiii took some of the spirit out of 
Campus Week, and It Is to be hoped 
that more will attend in the future, 
and bring Campus Week up to the 
standard of “the’ good old days.”
A Course in Hand­
ling Money
The formation of a banking 
connection early in life is an 
indispensable part of your 
education.
The experience in handling 
money, the friendly advice of 
specialists trained to meet 
every type of financial prob­
lem, will enable you to make 
the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help 
you to success in whatever 
line of wonk you may follow.Martín R. Schell, a Carnegie gradu­
ate is manager of the Automotive 
Parts Company of Youngstown, one 
of the' largest automobile agencies in 
the country. It handles complete 
lineB of motor car parts for nearly 
all makes of cars and is a unique 
agency in that It carries such a large 
supply of automobile parts. Martin 
Soliell graduated from Industries Col­
lege in 1924. He took the Electrical 
Equipment Course which was later 
changed to a course in the Engineer­
ing College. He received a Founder’s 
Scholarship ‘and was a member of 
Theta Tau. He was a member of the 
•Delta Mu fraternity being Its presi­
dent in his senior year. He played 
baseball and football and was awarded 
a- major varsity letter.
KAPPA SIGS WIN MEN’S
SWEEPSTAKES AGAIN
PATRONIZE OUR
Walter Browne Rodgers,
Beta Theta Pi House,
Forbes Street,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Please send.............................copies of tlie Carnegie
Quarterly to the address below:
Name..................................................................
Address...........................................................................
CORONATION AND DANCE
VERY WELL ATTENDED
(Continued From Page One) 
volving colored disks in front gave a 
neat effect. The twirling reflecting 
mirror hung conspicuously in the cen­
ter drew forth much favorable com­
ment. The Union, though slightly 
warmer than the gym, has a more de­
sirable floor and was crowded all 
evening. The orchestra in the Union 
was the Golden Gate Eight which won 
compliments from many of those pres­
ent. The decorations in the Union 
were simple and consisted of colored 
spotlights set along the sides of the 
floor. The success of the dance was 
added to greatly by the fact that the 
evening was pleasantly warm and ac­
companied by a full moon.
Charles' R. McGrail has been ap­
pointed: chemist and meallurgist at 
the.,Sheffield Works of Fairbanks, 
Morse .&• -Co., Three Rivers, Michi­
gan: >'McGrail attended school hero 
until: 1927. He was in the Machine 
Production .Department.if v i s I o N>|
e, PROGRESS L 
1 SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
Earl1 E. Smith who graduated in 
192i.aft'a Mechanical Engineer Is in 
charge of the courses of Instruction 
.of the r.School of Shop Engineering 
.which, iis conducted by the McKees- 
porl.YrM. C. A. in co-operation with 
ponjn -.State. College. He teaches 
mathematics and science. This Is the 
fifth, - year that Smith has been con­
nected with the school.
He was a member of the Delta XI 
.fraterniIy. also a member of Tau Beta 
pi,and,was treasurer of the American
Professor Payne was one of the 
judges in the fourth amateur players 
contest held in Pittsburgh recently 
uncjer the auspices of the Pittsburgh 
Drama League.
I^AUiMANN’i
FIFTH AVENUEPITTSBURGH
1928 CAMPUS SQUEAK GAINS
PRAISE FOR CLEAN HUMORWhen a full blooded American Indian 
was the world’s champion athlete
WjienJimThorpemn 
thcPcntathlon andDe- 
catfilon at the Stock­
holm Olympic Games 
in rg/2,the world was 
electrified.By securing 
a majority of points in 
broad andhighj it mps, 
discus and javelin 
throwing, putting the 
shot, running races 
and dashes, Thorpe 
was awarded the title 
of World Champion.
(Continued From Page One) :
Girls’ Sweepstakes which was a ski 
race without snow using barrel staves 
as slciis.
In the afternoon Carnegie citizens 
flocked to the Gym for the Cabaret 
dance and to Frew street for the Rol­
ler Skating Carnival.
In the evening with the last laugh 
in “Wedding Bells’’ Campus Week 
ended. “Wedding Bells” was highly 
successful due to the capable pro-: 
ducers, Marjorie Bartholomew and 
Ellen Micliie, and the ability of the 
leads, Carleton Young, Arthur Spren- 
kle, Irene Tedrow, and Thomas Lewis.
Much of the qredit for the success 
of Campus Week is due .to Bill Kun- 
kel, general chairman, and the mem­
bers of his committee, particularly 
Mark Seibert, who become acting 
chairman due to the illness of Kun- 
lcle.
At 11:30 the R. O. T. C. passed in 
review before President Baker and 
military authorities. Accompanied by 
the Kiltie Band the corp paraded to 
Scobell Hall where a flag was raised 
as the baud played the national an­
them. The parade was featured by 
the presence of airplanes flying over­
head.
An article on “Installment Selling” 
is being contributed- by Dr. Bartow 
Griff iss to the Encyclopedia Britan­
nica, thirteenth edition, which will 
appear in 1929.S
EE a goodly slice of the 
worldbeforeyousettle 
down io a real job. It’s a 
helpful background.
Our slii ps takeyou abroad 
for 1 itti e moueyinTouRisT 
Third Cabin — and take 
you in comfort. Plenty of 
pleifsant people—the kind 
you*ll find it agreeable to 
associate -with—plenty of 
Stretching room, plenty 
of fun.
“Engineering News Record’’ for 
March 22 contains an article by Pro­
fessor Mylliea on “Carrying Capacity 
of Hook Anchors.”
THE 1928 Olympics willbein Am­
sterdam. Oneof its showplacesis 
the magnificent new Bank of the 
Netherlands Trading Co. No doubt 
this bank would be proud to have one 
of Holland’s native sons win world 
fame similar to Thorpe’s, but they do 
not believe in compelling clerks to 
practice marathons and weight lifting 
in their daily work.
You will find in this bank 24 Otis 
Elevators of the most modern type 
from the micro-driven passenger ele­
vators that annihilate time and space
in their 100 foot lift, to smaller eleva­
tors and dumbwaiters that carry 
valuables and strong boxes, books and 
safes, ashes and food — elevators of 
every type and purpose—all products 
of Otis.
It should be a real thrill to visiting 
Americans to contemplate one of 
America’s great industries as a neces­
sary adjunct to the march of civiliza­
tion—«ven in countries of theold world 
that were making history when Amer­
ican Indians were yet to look upon 
the face of a white man.
Specially reserved qnar- 
tersfor'l ouiusTpassengers 
on such famous liners as 
Majestic, world’s largest 
ship, Olympic, Homeric, 
Belgeiiland, and others.
We offer tho only steam­
ers in the world devoted 
entirely to TOURIST pas­
sengers, SVlinnok&Didia, 
Minnesota? Winlffe- 
dBannnii Devonian. No 
other class carried. You 
laave the freedom of all 
decks. No class distinc­
tions.
'Lot us send yon literature do- scribing our unusual values in economical travel-
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes—Pastries—Ice Creams— 
Ices—Bread and Candles Ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
Princeton, N. J. — Uninfluenced in 
any way, according to tho Dally 
Princetonian, by tl,io recent Chinese 
revolutions, civil wars, and anti-for- 
eign propaganda, the Princeton-in- 
Peking work at Yonching University 
continues uninterrupted.
Not only has the work suffered no 
upsets, but the school is rapidly in­
creasing in size and In number of 
courses offered. The university has 
at present enrolled 650 students, 500 
of them men and 150 women.WHITE ./TAS3. UNE
ices in All Principal Cities of the WorldWED STAA B.0NE E.EY1LAND ONE 
ATLANTIC TOAN/PCRT 13NEa!lXJSF¿*AT*ONA.t. MCOCANTILC MAG INK COMPANY
..jaja Addrvjs No. 1 Broadway, New 
fifU xr" City, or any authorized -unship agent.
Dean Green spoke on “Scholarship" 
before the Women’s Club of Oakland 
at its meeting recently. Mrs. William 
Pfouts presided.
9llcê&imeiili ßr 
CATERERSSIIADYA3D PEJÍN AVIU, WTTSDUROII

---------------------------------------------------

TUE80AV, MAV 8, 1328THE CARNEGIE tARt.ANPAGE iHftee
NINTH ANNUAL CAMPUS 
WEEK COMES TO CLOSE 
AS A GRE M SUCCESS
VODVIL SHOW CLOStS A 
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
HONORARIC9 CALL
CLASS LEADERS AT
QUALIFICATIONSMusic NotesCLOTHES(Continued From Page One.) 
Charles Suesserott, Kenneth Owens. \ 
Frederick Sangster, and Robert 
Wehrle.
Druids, men’s sophomore activities 
honorary, called the following: John
Barnes. John Bayliss, Oscar Carlson. 
Latham Flannigan, John Karcis, Paul 
Kremer, David Lawton, George 
Nease, Albert Redding, James Trau. 
and Bernard Zielier.
Alpha Chi Alpha, women’s journal­
istic society, called the following: 
Rosemary Barr, Helen Reed, Eliza­
beth Schlesinger, and Sara Wonders.
Tau Sigma Delta, Architecture and 
Applied Arts national honorary, called 
the following on a basis of scholar­
ship, personality and leadership: 
William Trimble, Ralph Hitchcock, 
and Roger Skipp.
Pi Delta Epsilon, men’s journalistic 
honorary, called Bruce Gilcrest, Rus 
sell Loxtermann, Thomas Brown 
George Becker, Philip Hubbard, Rob 
ert Wehrle, Joseph Prager, Ralph 
Hitchcock, Stewart Ralston, Janie? 
Seibert, William McNeil, and Robert 
Wood.
Eta Kappa Nu. electrical engineer­
ing honorary called Olin Mitchell ant’ 
Myron Seibo'ld.
Scabbard and Blade, national mili­
tary honorary called the following 
'men: Gordon Durr, Norman Evans,
j Alexander Fisher, Lane Johnson, 
Carle Kumpfe, and Robert Lockwood
Phi Mu Alpha, national music so 
| ciety called: William Frank. Rich
ard Crist, Charles Selsam, Charle:
| Suesserott Richard Deverall, Charle; 
j Shotts, Walter Sickles, Joseph Patter 
i son) Wilfrid Worland and Paul Bran- 
! tigan.
| Minneapolis,' Minn.—Co-eds at tin 
| University of Minnesota have formed 
| a “Co-ed Political Party,” for the pur- 
j pose of electing their own president 
j at the mock convention to be held 011 
I Hip fampns May 10.
By SARA E. WONDERSReady-made 
And Cut to OrderExcellent Presentation and Large 
Variety of Acts Make Good 
Show
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.The Vodvil Show officially opened 
the Ninth Annual Campus Week at 
the Carnegie . Music Hall. The pro­
gram was scheduled for 10:00 o'clock 
but it was a half hour later before 
the latest of early risers arrived, and 
of course the show was held up for 
them. However the late start was 
compensated for when A1 Minetti and 
his crowd presented their burlesque 
consisting of a mystery act.
Jack Horner ably conducted the 
program from the stage, opening it 
with- a prologue written by Russell 
Bullinger. The Collegiate Imps play­
ed a number. Then out . pranced 
eight of the school’s most beautiful 
accomplished terpsichorean artists 
who chorused several times during 
the program.
Miss Information followed, a clever­
ly done funny act. Miss Reeves and 
Mr. Sullivan danced an old-time 
waltz in the most professional style. 
The audience gave both the little boy 
and the little girl a big hand. Sophie 
Tucker was reproduced to a penny. 
Sophie knows her singing act.
Betty McFadden made her first ! 
official appearance as 1928 Campus 
Queen. The queen was dressed in a 
grey dress, blue printed design, with 
a dark blue ensemble coat, and hat to 
match.
Several musical numbers followed, 
and then the great Abradadrabah 
answered multifarious silly questions, 
particularly from the students angle. 
Donald Wilson demonstrated the 
practibility of answering a question 
and disrobing. Ho for a math exam. 
Ruth Aston and Frank Sullivan pre­
sented a beautiful Spanish Dance.
The Sculptors and P. & D.’s have a 
wonderful inspiration in Mr. Dembin- 
sky, judging by his display at the 
show, and the acrobats who followed 
were so unusual that they shifted the 
whole program from excellent to the 
most unusual.
Tinie Liesch returned in all her 
glory of former years. She was fol­
lowed by an act of foolishness by 
Hornbostel and McClure. McCleod 
and Mills were received with their 
usual good act.
A grand finale closed the show.
May 10.
On Thursday evening, May 10, at 
S:30 in the Institute recital room there 
will be a recital by students of the 
organ department of the Pittsburgh 
Musical Institute.Suits *40, *45, $50 Topooats
May 11.
Students from the piano classes of 
Leah Davis and George Miller and 
the expression class of Helen Tlotliam 
will appear in recital Friday evening, 
May 11, in the recital room of the 
Pittsburgh Musical Institute.
There is 110 charge for admission to 
these recitals and the public is in­
vited.
BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT 
OUR STORE IS THE
OF PITTSBURGH 
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
AGEMAN & SPICKER
The Men’s Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE
Pay Summer Expenses 
ACHI EV/IWCN TSWFNSO Taking A Orders from(HousewivesySffor
KLEANEZY
The New Self- /S'
Wringer Mop with r?^uT\v.
the Broad a str ¿£S£ill 
Steel Plate Z'iffiSSnSFOB. SALE—BANJO UKE
GOOD TONE—PERFECT CONDITION 
Originally worth $40. Will soli for
Call Hlland 2820-M.
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES
1534 Center Avenue
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
Ad J resa
Town.•Stole
TECH
Barber Shop
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
Complete service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.
4531 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
Mayflower 28383808-10 Forbes Street
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
National Tailors
Spring
Showing
at
1181
M. M. C. C. SECRETA RIALS HOLD 
BANQUET AT WOMEN'S CLUB
The Secretarial Club of Margaret 
Morrison had a banquet last night at 
the Congress of Women’s Club. All 
speeches were eliminated except a 
few words by the president, Alice Mc- 
Innes, in order that the group might 
attend the theater. Florence Balph, 
social chairman managed the affairs 
with great success and both were ex­
ceptionally well attended.
xpe ram cut 111
Skibo Inn
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment
Mayflower 7891
Monday and Tuesday, 
May 14th and 15th

---------------------------------------------------

ACHI EV/WTHÉ CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAV fi, Í92S
COURSE IN METALLURGY'FINAL EXAMINATIONS FOR 
AT MASSACHUSETTS TECH SENIORS TO BEGIN MAY 21! 
WILL BE GIVEN JUNE 18-28 ..................
Final Elections of M.M. Class 
Officers Have Been Held
Course is of Interest to C. I. T, 
Students; Tuition $60, Room 
in Dorm $20
The serfior exams ore scheduled to 
I be held from May ¡¿1 to 26, Inclusive. 
These exam» will be taken after the 
I achievement tests which will be held 
j May 7 and 8. Due to these newly
Instituted tests seniors in M. M. C. 0. 
will be exempt from one exam of their 
major subjects. This subject will be 
determined by the head of the depart­
ment. By this arrangement the se­
niors have ample time to prepare for 
graduation,. The schedule has been 
carefully arranged In order to avoid 
The following is the
Students in Chemical Engineering 
and Mining and Metallurgical Courses 
at Carnegie may be Interested in the 
seventh annual Industrial gas course, 
sponsored by the New England Gas 
Association and the American Gas As- j an conflict 
sociation, which will be held at the | complete list of exams:
MuHBuchuBotlH Inntltute of Tochuol- j College of Entjlnccring,
ogy, Cambridge, Mass., June 18 to 28:
The major subject to be considered 
is jnetallur 
value and
Advance lnteift predicate» a rec- I (Civil), Scl. 67: E-304, Tmnwortatldn 
01 d-breaklng attendance. (Comml.), Scl. 20»; E-410, TrimsmlB-
While attempting to meet a grow- f,lon (jgiec!-).
Monday, May 21, 8:30-11:30—E-124, ! 
Tnd Chemistry (Cliem. Eng.), Sci. 212; \rgy. and a program ol great - cfijLtotry. (Che.n.),InteioHt I,a» been arranged. j sd m. ¡¡ 2U ^ l3nglnÿfrne
ing demand for greater specialization, 
the schedule this year will emphasize 
particularly the application of gas to 
metallurgical problems. Yet the course
M. II. 11; E-515-622, 
Mech.-Eng. Problems (Mech.), M. IT. 
203; E-629, Econ. Metallurgy (Metal.) j 
Sci. 65; IS-0-10, Mines Management 
(Mining), Scl. 05. 1:30-4:30—C-170,
contains sufficient allied and basic j ßnglläh Lltorature (Elective), Sci. 
subjects as to bo one of outstanding ; i i5-A; C-324, Prob, in American Govt, 
attractiveness and help to anyone on- (JSleetlve). Ind. 203.
gaged in or desiring to enter the. in­
dustrial gas sales Held.
Specific problems will be presented 
for solution and an acceptable report 
of all data available will be made by 
those attending. Notes and data will 
be distributed and. equipment in the 
Institute’s gas laboratory will be 
available for tests, etc.
The work of this course, will be han­
dled under the same discipline and 
system of rating as ordinarily ob­
tained In the curriculum of the Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology. A 
certificate will be awarded giving the
Tuesday, May 22, 8:30-11:30—C-3G, 
Trig. Series (Math.), Sci.-201. 9:30-
12:30—C-3G3, Banking and Credit
(Comuni.), Sci. 209. 8:30-11:30—E-128, 
Electrochemistry (Cliem. Eng.), Sci. 
09; E-214, Route Engineering (Civil), 
Scl. 57; E-414, A. C. Machinery
(Elee.), M. II. 104; E-528, Automotive 
Engineering (Mech.), M. IT. 203; E- 
624, Metallography (Metal.), Scl. 63; 
E-638, Mining Engineering (Mining), 
Sci. 70. 1:30-4:30—C-859, Commercial 
Law (Commi. .Cliem.). Ind. 104.
Wednesday, May 23, 8:30-11:30—E- 
114,-Tech. Org. Analysis (Che,111. Eng.),
composite grade received for the en-[ scl. 122; E-1.18, Chemistry Option
tire course,
Arrangements -may be made for 
rooms in a dormitory at the Institute. 
The charge will be $20.00 a man for 
the two weeks, and the tuition for the 
course will be $60.00 per man.
-Reservations should be made before 
June 1 through Robert L. Gifford, 231 
Main street, Pawtucket, It. I.
(Cliem.), Scl. 122; E-232, Masonry
(Civil), Sci. 57; E-308, Comml. Eng. 
Reports (Comml.), Scl. 118; E:418,
Communications (Elec.), Sci. 218; E- 
520, Pumps and Refrig. (Mech.), M. H. 
203; E-62$, Coal Washing (Mining). 
Sci. 111. 1:30-4:30—C-352, Economics 
(Metal. Math.), Ind. 131-A; E-48, His­
tory of Physics (Pliys.), Sci. 111.
The program of the course- is asi Thursday, May 24, 8:30-11:30 C-34.
follows:
Monday, June 18—Welcome, by J. 
J. Quinn; Report Writing, by Professor 
Winnard' Prescott; Refractories, by 
Professor G. B.. Wilkes.
Tuesday/ June 19—Insulation by 
Professor G. B. Wilkes; Theory of 
Combustion, by Profossor G. B. 
Wilkes.
Wednesday, June 20 — Metallurgy, 
by Professor R. S. Williams; Low 
Temperature Ovens.
Thursday, June 21—Metallurgy, by 
Professor It. S. Williams; Combustion 
Systems, by G. II. Seliwodersky, Provi­
dence Gas Company.
Friday, June 22—Metallurgy, by Pro- 
fesor R. S. Williams; Metallurgy Lab­
oratory, by Professor V, C. I-Iomer- 
burg.
Saturday, Juno 23—Process Prob­
lems—-A special problem lecture on 
the practical work of the Industrial 
engineer, by II, L. Gifford, Pawtucket 
Gas Company.
Monday, Juno 25—Report Writing, 
by Profossor Winnard Prescott; Tem­
perature Control, by A. M. Stock, the 
Pu.rt.low Corp.
Tuesday, Juno 20- Metallurgy, by 
Profossor 11, S. Williams; Heat. Treat­
ing Furnaces, by P. C. Ostorman, 
American Gas Furnace Company.
Wedensday, June 27 ... Metallurgy,
by Profossor R. S. Williams; Com­
petitive Fuels, by J. A. Doyle, W. S. 
Rockwell Company.
Thursday, Juno 28—Metallurgy, by 
Professor 11. S. Williams; Heat Treat­
ing Furnaces, by It. S. Cochran, Sur­
face Combustion Company.
Friday, June 29—Baking, by E. D. 
Mllener, A. G. A.
' Final ejection results of Margaret 
Morrison class officers are: Senior
class, president, Annabelle Turner; 
vice president, Miriam Cupps; secre­
tary, Helen Bright; treasurer. Helen 
Booth, and social chairman, Dorothy 
Hill. Florence Jenny has been elected 
as Senate representative. •
The Junior oldss officers are: Pres­
ident, Mary E. Hall; vice president, 
Emma‘Nelson; secretary, Cora Lee 
I-Ienk; treasurer, Pat Montgomery; 
social, chairman, Virginia Morgan; 
Senate representative, Isobel Shep­
pard, and Senate treasurer, Margaret 
Wageley.
The Sophomore class election ter­
minated in Kay Collins as president, 
with Lucille Ross as vice president, 
Caroline Barger as secretary, Ruth 
Kellogg as treasurer, Grace Borger- 
ding as social chairman and Martha 
Lou Clark as Senate representative.
WALTER POYNTZ ENTERTAINS
IND. JUNIORS AT BANQUET
The Junior Industries held their 
banquet Monday at the Frontenac 
Club on Craft avenue. About 85 men 
from every class in the school were 
present. Music, dancing and singing 
entertained the attendants, and light 
refreshments were served.
Walter Yoyntz was one of the re­
deeming features of the banquet. He 
pepped up the banquet andB inspired 
every one with joyful thoughts.
JEANETTE WILSON WINS 
IN GIRLS’ SWEEPSTAKES
Dr. Rittman has been appointed a 
member of the Coal and .Coal Products 
Committee of the American Institute 
of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers.
Math. Anal. (Math.), Scl. 205; E-60, 
Adv. Light (Phys.), Scl. 113; E-126, 
Chemical Engineering (Cliem. Eng.), 
Scl. 216; E-452, Elec. Eng. (Civil.
Mech., Comml.), Union; E-632, Tech. 
Problems (Mining), Sci. 65. 1:30-4:30 
—C-186, English Lltorature (Math.). 
Arts Ex.; E-50, Adv. Sound and Waves 
(Pliys.), Scl. 113; E-130, Inspection
Trips (Cliem. Eng.), Sci. 212; E-220, 
Hydraulics (Elec.), Sci. 57; E-524,
I Prime Movers (Metal.), M. II. 207; E- 
614, Econ. Geology (Mining), Scl. 63. 
j Friday, May 25, 8:30-11:30—E-68, 
Pyrometry (Cliem., Pliys.), Scl. l|3i; 
E-302, Prod. and Distribution 
(Comml.), Scl. 122; E-412, Elec. De­
sign (ICloc.), Scl. 209; E-606, Opt. Min­
eralogy and Potrog. (Mining), Scl. 65. 
1:30-1:30, 15-312, Accounting (Civil), 
Scl. 218. 3:30-5:30—C-230, Int. Scl.
Gorman (Cliem., Phys., Math,), Union.
Saturday, May 26, 8:30-11:30—E-62, 
Elec. and Matter (Cliem., Phys.), Sci. 
209; 10-228, Structures (Civil), Scl. 57. 
1:30-1:30-11-8, R-14, R. O. T. C. (All), 
Gymnasium.
College of Industries.
Monday, May 21, 8:30-11:30—0-369, 
Finance Org. and Mgmt. (Sales), Tnd. 
223; 1-512, Bldg. Sanitation (11. & V.), 
Ind. 205; 1-930, Estimating (Printing), 
Ind. 118-R. 1:30-1:30—1-152, Timber
and Stool (Bldg.), Ind. 119; 1-310, A. C, 
Machinery (Eloc. Eq.), Ind. 20S; 1-818, 
Auto Service*-Practice (Auto), Lang. 
Lab.
Tuesday, May 22, 8:30-11:30, 0-118, 
English III (Printing), Ind. 11S-B; I- 
608, Admin. Public Education (Ind. 
Ed.), Ind. 216-B. 1:30-4:30—C-359,
Commercial Law (Works Mgmt.). Ind. 
104; 1-532, Research Problems (IT. & 
V.). Ind. 216-B; 1-914, Machine Compo­
sition (Printing), Ind. 11S-B.
Wednesday, May 23, S: 30-11:30—C- 
3S0, Personnel Mgmt. (Works Mgmt., 
Print.), Sci. 218; T-156, Employment
Problems (Bldg., Ii. & V., E.E.). Ind. 
117. 1:30-4:30, C-364, Foreign Trade
(Sales), Ind. 235-A; I-S20, Service
Mgmt. (Auto), Lang. Lab.; E-616, 
Geology (Bldg.), Sci. 65.
Thursday. May 24, 8:30-11:30^0- 
262, Educational Meas. (Ind. Ed.), M. 
M. 101; 1-154, Reinforced Concrete
(Bldg.), Ind. 119; I-95S, Printing Pro­
duction (Printing), Ind. 11S-A; E-452, 
Electrical Engineering (Works 
Mgmt), Union; E-527, Power Plants 
(E. E., H. & V.), Ind. 104. 1:30-4:30,,
C-270, Princ. of Education (Ind. Ed.), 
M. M. 214; 1-323, Meters and Rates 
(Elec. Eq.), Ind. 20S; C-371, Markets 
(Sales), Union; I-71S, Production 
Mgmt. (Works Option), Ind. 300-A; I- 
822, Starting and Lighting (Auto), 
Lang. Lab.; 1-908, Adv. Typography 
(Printing). Ind. 118-A.
Friday, May 25, 8:30-11:30—C-314, 
Amor. Govt. (Bldg., Print., Ind. Ed.),- 
Union; 1-44, Furnace Practice (Works 
Option), Ind. 304. 1:30-4:30, 1-530,
Bacteriology (IT. & V.), Ind. 216-A. 
8:00-1:30—1-924, Presswork (Print­
ing). Ind. 304.
¦ Saturday, May 26, 8:30-11:30—1-312, 
Transmission Systems (Elec. Eq.), 
Ind. 20S; 1-898, Salesmanship (Works 
Mgmt.). Ind. 104; 1-934. Advertising 
(Printing), Ind. US-B. 10:30-12:30. 
Very truly yours, | C-276, Ethics (Ind. Ed.). M. M. 213.
(signed) E. P. Ffahburn 11:30-1:30.—R.-11, It. O. T. C. (All),
I Gymnasium.
College of Fine Arts, 
j Monday, May 21, S: 30-11:30—A-14G,
| Construction (Arch.), Room 210. 10:30- 
¡12:30—A-70S, Musical Aesthetics (Mu­
sic), Room 157.
Tuesday, May 22, 8:30-10:30—A-8, 
History of P. & S. (P. & D.), Room 
102. 10:30-12:30—A-1050, Dramatic
Comp. (Drama), Room 106. 1:30-3:30, 
A-454, Methods (P. & D.—Opt. II), 
Room 301; A-658, Counterpoint (Music 
—Opt. Ill), Room 103.
Wednesday, May 23, 10:30-12:30—A- 
778, Met.li. Tech. Music Apprec. (Music 
—Opt. Ill), Room 103.
Thursday, May 24, 8:30-12:30—A-6, 
History of the Arts (Musi«5—Opt. I), 
Exhibition. 10:30-12:30, A-20, History 
of Literature (Arch.), Room 106. 1:30- 
3:30—C-270, Princ., of Ed. (P. & D., 
Music), M. M. 214.
Friday, May 25, 8:30-10:30—C-270, 
Princ. of Ed. (M. M. 9:30 group), M. 
M. 214. 10:30-12:30—C-238, Elemen­
tary Italian, Exhibition; G-240, Inter­
mediate Italian, Exhibition. 1:30-3:30 
—C-202, 204, 200, 210, 216, All French 
courses (French sections reciting to 
Prof. Colette, Miss King and Mr. Ale- 
many will report in the Union; all 
other French sections in Gymnasium), 
Union or Gymnasium. l:!M)-3:30—C- 
242, 244, 246, All Spanish Courses, 
Union. 3:30*5:30, C-222, 221, All Ger­
man Courses, Union.
Saturday, May 26, 10:30-12:30—A-16, 
History of Ornament (Arch.), Room 
106; A-746, Elem. Orchestration (Mu­
sic—-Opt. Ill), Room 160.
Last Friday morning at 9:30 or 
about then, six girls took their places 
on the starting line of the race track, 
amid ilying snowflakes, and perspiring 
brows, to determine which was tlid 
world's champion skier. The snow 
was deep and it was feared that some 
of the girls would suffer from frost 
bite. The course was long and diffi­
cult but the contestants did not falter, 
and only six of the girls tumbled and 
fell. A wildly cheering throng urged 
the co-eds on, and on they skied.
Exhausted but triumphant, Jeanette 
Wilson crossed the finishing line fol­
lowed closely by Kay O’Donnell. Al­
though the racers were extremely 
weary, the photographers had no diffi­
culty in getting the girls to pose for 
them.
Betty Muller was awarded first prize 
for having the best costume. It was 
very appropriate, an Alpine climber, 
Jeannette Wilson won second prize. 
She was also dressed as an Alpine 
climber. Dean Green awarded the 
prizes. Miss Green, Miss Alexander 
and Miss Seamen judged the cos- 
umes.
The cup for the winner of the 
sweepstakes which is presented by the 
Architectural Society was won by the 
commuters. Forbes Hall and Wood- 
lawn Dorms have each won it twice. 
The group winning the trophy three 
times out of five keeps it. The com­
muters destroyed some high dreams of 
the dorm skiers. Anyliiw the sport 
of skiing has been firmly established 
at Carnegie. It is feared that new 
traffic rules will have to be made to 
provide for the extremely large num­
ber of skiers.. Perhaps that neglected 
strip of Woodlawn avenue can be 
given over to the frolicking designs 
of skiers, instead of being planted in 
violets. Anyhow, the Slci-bo dasli was 
a great success in spite of the ex­
tremely cold weather and heavy snow 
fall.
TENNIS TEAM LEAVES TO­
MORROW ON EASTERN TRIP
Wednesday night the Varsity ten­
nis team will'depart for the East on 
a hard trip where they will meet 
Princeton, New York University and 
Penn State, on May 10, 11 and 12, in 
the order- named. Princeton Univer­
sity generally has oneof the highest 
ranking tennis teams in the East and 
wj.ll meet the' Tartans for the first 
time, in this sport, on Thursday. 
Ne-w York U. and Penn State will of­
fer plenty of stiff competition.
In spite of the weather conditions
and the lack of practice the team has 
done very well in the matches played 
to date having won over W. & J., and 
Dickinson College by a good margin, 
and having tied the alumni without 
the services of Captain Joe Schmid.
Competition has been keen for po­
sitions on the team- Captain Joe 
Schmid, A. J. Glaser. J. M. Hooper 
ind IT. P. Carpenter as well as Man­
ager D. W. Lewis are pretty sure of 
going on the trip. The fifth man will 
be chosen from tryouts among R. M. 
Kam bach; R. S. Tener, W. R. Bernar- 
di and W. D. Bronson. Coach Hoover 
expects to go, along on the trip. . .
Providence, R. I.—It was only after 
the opinions of experts had been se­
cured to the effect that wax could not 
hurt a wooden floor that the Juniors 
at Brown University were able to 
obtain permission for use of the uni­
versity’s new ¦ gymnasium for their 
Junior Prom.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Switches Back 
to Favorite 
Tobacco
Peoria, 111.Aug. 26, 1926 Messrs. Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs: 
Justaconfessionnndanappreciation. A number of years ago I was a user of your Edgeworth smoking tobacco. 
But like some others, perhaps, I was led by alluring advertisements to change.A few days ago I went; into a drug store to get some tobacco, and on the 
case was the familiar can of Edgeworth, I bought it. and since then 1 have en­joyed old-time comfort.
So my confession is that I made a mistake in changing to other brands, and my appreciation is such that Edge- worth will be my Smoke Pal while life lasts, which may not be long, for I 
have passed my “three score years and ten."
D1FFEHEMCE
! When you reyit a tuxedo suit from us 3’ou 
rent the best.
Quality, Pit and Stjde. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
HINDUSTAN ASSOCIATION TO 
HOLD NEXT MEETING MAY 12
The next monthly meeting of the 
Hindustan Association will be held 
at the Margaret Morrison College Rec­
reation Hall, Carnegie Tech, on Sat­
urday, May 12, 1928, at 8 p. m.
Dr. P. W. Whiting, professor of 
Geology at the University , of Pitts­
burgh, is going to speak on the sub­
ject of “How to become a Nordic.” ¦
Professor Whiting is a very good 
speaker and always makes his talks 
very interesting.
Students and their friends are cor­
dially invited. This is the last meet­
ing of the Hindustan Association this 
semester.
Character Building
'is one of the fundamentals of the Boy Scout 
movement.
Why not avail yourself, of this tested and 
helpful means toward1 a successful career.
Start now to save a definite amount from 
your income and deposit it regularly in 
Oakland’s strong financial institution, thus 
forming a connection which will prove of 
inestimable benefit for all the years to 
come.
RCLNCUD TCHVUYO - PWSOB MKa
“The Oakland Bank”
Where Forbes Crosses Meyran
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Monday, May 21, 8:30-10:30—M-28, 
Biology VII (Sd.), Room 14; M-352, 
Ofllco Practice (Secretarial), Room 
308; M-356, ObBQrv. and Pract. Teach­
ing (Sec. Tchr.), Room 308; M-452, 
Recreation IV, and M-466, Case Work 
IV (Social Work), Room 103. 10:30- 
1.2:30—0-146, Tech. of Writing (Eng­
lish Minor), Room 308; M-118, Coolc- 
ory IV (IT. B.), Room 315; M-216, Cos* 
I,nine Design (C. E.), Room 201. 1:30- 
3:30—M-114, Practice Teaching (Tchr. 
Tr.), Room 214.
Tuesday, May 22, 10:30-12:30—M-30, 
Histology (Sci.), Room 115: M-118, 
Nutrition 11 (II. E.), Room 315; M-220, 
Adv. Costume Design (C. E.j, Room 
211: M-454, Criminology (Social
Work), Room lpl. 1:30-4:30—M-370, 
Shorthand III (Soc., Sec. Tchr., E. 
M ), Rooms 205-302: M-38S, Typewrit­
ing III (Soc., Sec. Tchr., E. M.), Room 
412.
Wednesday, May 23, S: 30-10:30—M- 
1S, Chemistry VII (Sci.), Room 14. 
1:30-3:30—C-144, English IV (English 
Minor), Room 112; M-106. Cookery II 
(H. E.), Rooms 119-120; M-20S, Dress­
making (C. E., Room 210; M-458.
Admin, of Social Agencies (Social 
Work), Room 101.
Thursday, May 24, 8:30-10:30—A-6, 
History of the Arts (C. E.), Arts Ex.; 
C-262, Ed. Meas. (Sec. Tchr.), Room 
101; M-42S, Economics (Miss Mc­
Bride’s group), Rooms 119-120; C-392, 
Economics (Mr. Bowman’s group), 
Room 214. 10:30-12:30, M-13, Chemis­
try V (Sci.), Room 115. 1:30-3:30, C-
270, Princ. of Ed. (S:30 group), Room 
214.
Friday, May 25, 8:30-10:30—C-150, 
Novel (9:30; Elective), Rooms 119-120; 
C-160, Drama (9:30 Elective), Room 
213; C-270, Princ. of Ed. (9:30 Elec­
tive), Room 214. 10:30-12:30—M-120,
Nutrition III. (Tchr. Tr.), Room 315. 
1:30-3:30—C-202, 204, 206, 212, 214, All 
French Courses (French section recit­
ing to Prof. Colette, Miss King and 
Mr. Alemany will report in the Union; 
all other French sections in Gymna­
sium) Union or Gymnasium. 1:30-3:30 
—C-242, 244, 246, All Spanish Courses, 
Union. 3:30t-5:30—C-222, 224, All
German Courses, Union.
Saturday, May 26, 8:30-10:30—C-162, 
English Prose Writers (S:30 Elec­
tive), Room 206; C-252, Introd. to
Teaching (S:30 Elective), Arts Ex.; 
C-342, Contemporary History (8:30 
Elective), Room 115; M-410, Sociology 
(S:30 Elective), Room 101. 10:30-
12:30, C-276, Ethics (10:30 Elective), 
Room 213; M-4601, Social Philosophy 
(Social Work), Room 101. 1:30-3:30— 
C-252, Introd. to Teaching (1:30 
group), Arts Ex.
For the business 
man at his desk,i. 
“longdistance” 
opens the doors to 
widely Scattered 
markets.
There are doors 
to open, still
Trade followed Commodore Perry’s 
flag into Japan. Today,as Bell System 
pioneers develop their service, trade 
follows the telephone.
In advancing the art of telephony, 
there are still plenty of doors to open, 
plenty of new steps to take.
What apparatus will meet some new­
ly-arisen condition in serving the sub­
scriber? What are the machines and 
methods to make it ?
How can the value of long distance 
telephony be best presented to in­
dustry, and the great potentialities of 
this service developed ?
These questions and many like them 
point the way to fields which still leave 
ample room for the explorer.
BELL SYSTEM
tA nation-wide system of‘18,500,000 inter-connecting telephones
‘OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN’

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
VARSITY NET TEAM 
TIES ALUMNI 3-3
S. BROWNSVILLE 
WINS HIGH SCHOOL 
MEET AT TECH BOWL
discus throw. Surely this trio will go 
down on Brownsville's Roll of Honor, 
if they have auoli a thing. Another 
event of interest was the record-break­
ing pole vault oC Allen, of Salem, 
when he bettered the old mark of li 
feet 6 inches by a good two inches. 
The old record was established by the 
same Allen last year.
Lock Haven did exactly what was 
expected of them when they walked 
away with all live places in the ham­
mer throw. The athletes from that 
school have done the same thing be­
fore so the committee in charge of 
the event, when laying their plans, 
removed the hammer throw from the 
list of events which count in the 
final ‘scoring. Notwithstanding this 
the Lock Haven boys finished with 
15 1-S points. If the outlawed event 
had counted they would, have won in 
a walk.
The star events of the program, the 
mile relay races, did not turn out in 
tlie manner expected. The various 
schools were grouped into four 
classes, A, B, C and D, according to 
the standard of their past perform- 
I ances. Westingliouse High, placed in 
Class C, negotiated the distance in 
13:42 G-10 while Peabody, a class A 
! team, turned in a slower time, 3:43, 
for the same distance. Class B was 
won by Beaver Falls in 3:49 2-10 and 
class D by Latrobe in much better 
time, 3:47. The class A race, how­
ever, made up in interest what it 
lacked in speed. Reider, a New Cas­
tle man, ran the race of his life in 
trying to oyerrome the 15-yard lead 
held by a Peabody runner. The han­
dicap proved, too great, however, but 
he finished just behind the victor..
Taking all into consideration the 
meet was a success and much credit 
is duo' to the Athletic Association and 
also to Donald Putt and his commit­
tee for bringing such a galaxy of stars 
to Tech Bowl.
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
Tennis Team Leaves To­
morrow On Eastern Trip
Carnegie’s twelfth annual interscholastic track meet, held last Saturday, was undoubtedly one of the most successful since the series was inaugurated. 
The entry list was quite large, despite the fact that, for the first time, out- 
of-town schools were not provided with housing accommodations. The per­
formances of the school boys were very creditable, considering the fact that 
most of them were in poor condition on account of the poor training weather 
previous to the meet. This probably accounts for the slow time in the track 
events—the field event men. able to get into condition despite weather con­
ditions, breaking two meet records, in the discus and pole vault.
Lock Haven high repeated its annual stunt of taking all five places in 
the hammer throw. Had these points been counted toward the meet title, 
Lock Haven would have been crowned champion, since they had twelve points 
in other events, with the hammer, would have had a total of twenty-seven 
points; Brownsville winning with twenty-one. It seems hardly fair to penal­
ize a school for being proficient in one event over a period of years, by thus 
holding the event but denying points toward the team trophy. It would seem 
more reasonable to either cut the event entirely, or to count it, and let othor 
teams develop hammer throwers.
Beaver Falls is Second'and 
Salem Third; Relays Prove 
Interesting
The twelfth annual Carnegie intor- 
scliolastic track meet is now history, 
the various winners have departed for 
their homes and, no doubt, are now 
displaying their well earned medals 
before proud parents. The athletes 
from South Brownsville High School 
are probably displaying more than 
medals though, for they, with a total 
of 21 points, were the recipients of 
the silver trophy emblematic of vic­
tory. The aforementioned school 
barely nosed out Beaver Falls who 
garnered 20 points and second place. 
Salem, Ohio, placed third with 19 Va.
As a whole, the meet was a great 
success. The weather was good, tlio 
attendance was good and tliq per­
formances were good. No more could 
be desired for any meet Much hap­
pened to keep the crowd in an ex­
citable mood and to mark the event 
as one of the best in history.
Perhaps the happening most worthy 
of mention was the victory of South 
Brownsville. The "Big Three,” Strlb- 
ling, Shelton and Caesarone, all of 
that school, scored every one of 
South’s 21 points. Stribling and 
Shelton accounted for eight points 
apiece while the third named salted 
away the victory with his , first in the
The tennis team took three matches last week, defeating W. & J.. Dick­
inson and the alumni, in easy fashion. Pitt was met yesterday afternoon, and 
Princeton, New York U. and Penn State will be met in order on Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday of this week, on the annual eastern trip. With last 
year’s team—Captain Schmid, Glaser, Hooper and Carpenter, intact, the 
Tartan netmen bid fair to make a very good record. In fact, Pitt is the only 
apparent obstacle to a Tri-State championship. An odd coincidence here is 
that Joe Schmid, Carnegie number one man, and Byron Baur, Pitt ace, itre 
home town buddies and doubles partners during the summer. Baur was 
captain of the Pitt team last year, as a junior, while Schmid is the Skibo 
captain this year, and a junior.THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new “shadowweight” felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established 1S72
The .track team opened its season last Tuesday, defeating P. A. A. in a 
close meet. On Saturday, however, the Plaid runners were defeated by 
Geneva, at Beaver Falls. In the latter meet but two firsts were taken, Ken­
nedy winning the 220 after a pretty race, and Miller tying for first in the 
pole vault. Hughes was nosed out by inches in a fifty-two, second quarter 
mile, fast time for Geneva’s track.
The Tartan trackmen will invade the Pitt Stadium this afternomi for a 
meet with the Pitt team. The Panthers, with an impressive array of talent, 
should win easily, but will undoubtedly find the competition to be keener 
than it has been for several years.********
Friedman of Geneva hurled the javelin 1S1 feet, 11% inches, in the 
Geneva-Carnegie meet last Saturday, breaking the Tri-State record held by 
Welch of Pitt, only to learn later that Welch tossed the missile 182 feet 2 inches on the same afternoon, in the Pitt-West Virginia meet, retaining his 
title by a two and oue-lialf inch margin.— « * * * * * * * 1 
With this writing the present scribe relinquishes control of this column, 
wherein his literary gems have appeared for quite a while, and turns its di­
rection ovfer to his successor, Thomas T. Lippert, who lias served meritorious­
ly on the staff for two years, and will be athletic editor for the next year.
Lathom, Geneva; second, Loclcard, 
Carnegie Tech; third, McFarland, 
Carnegie. Time, 16 1-5 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Won by Lath­
om, Geneva; second, Lockard, Car* 
nogie Tech; third, Ewing, Geneva. 
Time—13 seconds.
Field events—Shot put—Won by 
Cullen,, Geneva; second, Merriman, 
Geneva; third, Melziner, Carnegie 
Tecli. Distance, 40 feet 11 inches.
Discus throw—Won by Merriman, 
Geneva; second, Cullen, Genova; 
third, Murray, Carnegie Tech. Dis­
tance. 117 feet 34 inclios.
Hammer throw—Won by Lieman, 
Carnegie Tech; second, Cullen, Ge­
neva; third, Wilcox, Geneva. Distance, 
116 feet S inches.
High jump—Won by Baird, Geneva; 
second, Solo and Caldwell, Geneva, 
tied. Height—5 feet S inches.
Pole vault—Duncan, Geneva and 
Miller, Carnegie Tecli, tiod; third, 
Baird, Geneva. Height—10 feet 6 
inches.
Broad jump—Won by Ward, Gene­
va; second, Duncan, Genova; third, 
McFarlan, Carnogio Toch. Distance, 
20 foot inchos.
Faculty and Students
Tech; third, E. Lockley, Geneva. 
Time, 2:06.
Mile run—Won by S. Locldey, Ge-. 
neva; Blair, Geneva; third, Hubbard, 
Carnegie Tech. Time, 4:44.
Two-mile run—Won by Solldn, Car­
negie Tech; second, Cushnie, Gene­
va; third, J. -Piper, Genova. Time, 
10:30 -5.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by
Carnegie Track Men 
Win From P. A. A
Last Tuesday the Carnegie track 
men wrestled a close match from P. 
A. A. Considering this was their first 
meet this season their performance 
was very creditable.
In the Geneva meet Carnegie was 
nosed out by 51 points. The Coven­
ters were sporting some first class 
athletes. Leff Friedman hurled the 
javelin to a new Tri-state district rec­
ord, when he sent the spear through 
tlie sir for 181 feet Hi Inches. He 
had a toss of twVi inches undflr the Tri­
state record before irMikii.'.1 '.'Ws—Heal 
throw that broke the record held by 
Gibby Welch of University of Pitts­
burgh.
The summaries of the two matches 
are as follows:
P. A. A. vs. Carnegie—Summaries.
100-yarcl dash—Won by Bowen, P. 
A. A.; second, Kennedy, Carnegie; 
third, ITerbst, Carnegie. Time, 10.1 
seconds.
220-yard dash—Won by Kennedy,' 
Carnegie; second, Milne, P. A. A.; 
third, Lockhart, Carnegie. Time, 
24.1 seconds.
440-yard dash—Won by Bowen, P. 
A. A.; second, Hughes, Carnegie; 
third, Asliwell, Carnegie. Time, 51.4 
seconds.
'880-yard dash—Won by Carter, P. 
A. A.; second, McCombs, Carnegie; 
third, Ewing,. Carnegie. Time, 2:8.5.
One-mile—Won by Rock, P. A. A.; 
second, Hubbard, Carnegie; third, 
Leslie, Carnegie. Time, 4:51.4. -
Two-miles—Won by Kerr, P. A. A.; 
second, Sallcin; third, Samboli, P. A. 
A. Time, 10:34.3.
120-yard High hurdles—Won by 
Bowen, P. A. A.; second, Lockhart, 
Carnegie; third, McFarlin, Carnegie. 
Time, 16.5 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Won bv Lock­
hart, Carnegie; second, McFarlin, 
Carnegie; third, Klocko. Time, 14 
seconds.
Shot Put—Won by Archibold, P. A. 
A.; second, Melziner, Carnegie; third, 
Beales, P. A. A.. Distance 38 feet 
inches.
Javelin—Won by Stroud, P. A. A.; 
second, Beares, P. A. A.; third, Mur­
ray, Carnegie. Distance, 133 feet 10 
inches.
Pole Vault—L. E. Smith, P. A. A., 
and Merton, Carnegie, tie; third, Mil­
ler, Carnegie. Distance, 10 feet 6 
inches.
High jump—Merton, Carnegie and 
Wilson, P. A. A., tied; second, Mc­
Farlin, Carnegie. Distance,. 5 feet 6 
inches.
Dicus—Won by Archbold, P. A. A.; 
second, Beares, P. A. A.; third, Love- 
well, Carnegie. Distance, 113 feet 11 
inches.
Broad Jump—Won by Rose, P. A. 
A.; second, McFarlin, Carnegie; 
third. Brown. Distance, 21 feet 6 
inches.
Hammer throw—Won by Dexter, P. 
A. A.; second, Leamon, Carnegie. Dis­
tance, 118 feet 8 inches.
are cordially invited to inspect 
a display of Aluminum on ex- 
hibit]d<iuring the week of May 
i ihe lobby of the
Store for Men
Forbes National Bank
Fifth and Oakland, Pittsburgh
Choice of Explosives
for Ore Mining
LESSON NUMBER TWELVE
BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
I
N ore mining, the selection and use of explosives becomes nothing less than a fine art. Every formation of ore and rock requires a different explosive. Drilling and loading methods must be correctly performed to ensure satisfactory results.
For instance, what explosive would you use where moisture is present in excessive quantities, which explosive to .produce "the least obnoxious fumes, which dynamite to use below or 
above ground, which kind for soft or for hard rock? How can you choose explosives to reduce the hazard of igniting gas and dust mixtures?
Some day you’ll need this information. You may need to know the answer immediately. Textbooks—even the best—do not contain this vitally important data. During the last 125 years 
du Pont has been making and testing explosives for every type of blasting operations. These tests have been applie^. to all industries where explosives were essential.-
This coupon will bring you a copy of the Blasters’ Handbook without any cost. It’s a reference book for explosives’ users. 
Some of the largest engineering colleges use the Blasters’ Handbook in their engineering classes. You need it today and you’ll need it even more when you’re out in the field.
Wednesday and Thursday
Mail the coupon .of your 
copy NOW
Collar-attached oxfords and broadcloths. 
Plain white-coolest and best for summer. 
All sizes from 13^ to 17^. Stock up now 
at this saving.
Geneva vs. Carnegie.
Summaries:
100-yard dash—Won by Lloyd,
Geneva; second, Kennedy, Carnegie 
Tech; third, Ewing, Geneva. Time, 
10 1-5 seconds.
220-yard dash—Won by Kennedy, 
Carnegie Tech; second, Herbst, Car­
negie Tech; third, Lloyd, Geneva. 
Time, 23 2-5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Won by D. Piper, 
Geneva; second, Hughes, Carnegie
REO. U. S. PAT. OFF.
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO., INC. 
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Del.
Gentlemen : Please send me a copy of your 
Blasters’ Handbook.
Name.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 8, 1928
Book Ri view
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2C.00 j *
PubliHhod one« every week durlnji the <wl lw> I MANFRED GOTTFRIED "PRELUDE year by undergraduates of Carnogio Inntltuto Iof Technology. Entered In fho Plttnburgh | * TO BATTLE”
Pout Office »in necond-clann mutter.
Those Who Seek Education Should f
iPay For It, Says Dr. Arnett of Chicago it—The American Caravan
Thisthe first issue of
:
EDITORIAL STAFFBdltor-in-Chlcf ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor...............Milton Cohen
News Editor...............Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred Woods
Women’s Editor.......................Jenn Roy
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bnllinger William Rose
A. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Schniedor Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralston Harold JacobsonDorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. 
IS. Jarema 
T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay
C. ParkJ. J. Boyle 
H. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe 
H. Levinson 
W. J. Eason 
H. Booth 
M. Echels 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
Ina ITansellE. Schlesinger
B. Kann
J. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. O’Donnell R. Bramson 
H. Whitehill 
R. jrfarr 
A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson
In the midst of spring prettinessoH 
comes Manfred Gottfried's novel, "Pre­
lude to Battle.” There is, in Its ap­
pearance, much that is Inconsistent:
I have mentioned that urottiness 1« 
not a part of the book; nor Is any­
thing else that characterizes spring 
and vernal fiction. The younger gen­
eration’s many and vicarious problems 
and the rest of the young novelists' 
concerns, so aptly a part of summer 
verandas and ocean voyages and deep 
arm chairs in cool libraries—-"Pre­
lude to Battle” is far from them; in 
if. is sterner and more vigorous stuff: 
the stuff of ancient Cathay when 
Genghiz Khan was growing to man­
hood, lighting his way to regal posi­
tion, loving his way to regal position, 
1 loving his way through a harem of 
j more than a hundred women, the ma- 
| terial of blood and might, of battle 
j tents near barren rivers, near stark 
mountains.
j Manfred Gottfried has the type of 
imagination I much admire. In 1921 
| or 1022 he became asquainted with Pe-
Colleges in which the students 
themselves will pay the entire cost 
of their education were advocated by
year ; Edmund Wilson, entitled Galahad is 
according to Dr. Arnett, will be that j book, the purpose of which is, in the j stiH another cultural-facet of love
tho students will be more critical of words of one ot the editors, "to move ¦ fol°re‘l *)y tlle mi,itant' balked Pro-
thc kind ol education which they re- i d , roads for deeo Beauty to ! 1 tJ'P651 of mores. In each ofceive and will not tolerate waste and 1 clear roads for deep Beauty tbese there ,s a moving, genuine
Dr. Trevor Arnett, a trustee of tlie < duplication of expense. Krow American." Whatever else can (esthetic achievement but it is hard to
University of Chicago and formerly i Spending incomc Wisely. be sa;d m lrasement of this be-1 discover the typical American strain,
vice president and business manager I On this account, he said, it may bo wilderine. at times ba Ung med ey• j The chemical fusion is still to come,
of the University, speaking before a I expected that the college of the fu-;cannot be said at all that many of , We have here a crazy-quiit in whichthe contributors have faltered in their . many of the most brilliant patches 
passionate quest to render of the vau- j have been borrowed from neighbors, 
deville of the American scene some | Nevertheless this work is the
gathering of educators and laymen 
just held here in the interest of the 
now women's college to be opened in 
Old Bennington, Vt., in 1930.
Dr. Arnott, who is a member of the 
General Education Board and the au­
thor of a number of treatises on edu­
cational finance, traced the develop­
ment of various methods of financing 
higher educational institutions. Ben­
nington College, he declared, has an 
opportunity “to point the road for 
others to follow” in the embracing of 
j this new system of financing.
| Bennington College, for which a 
j $4,000,000-fund is now being sought 
to provide the physical plant, expects 
j to meet practically the entire annual 
I expenses through tuition feeB. A sys­
tem of scholarship and loan funds will
semblance of glowing beauty. These j "racket,” Perhaps this latest addition 
seventy-two contributors are at least j to the- American lingo—"racket”—de-
ture will expend its income moi*e ; 
wisely and efficiently under such a j 
system, as those with higher costs of 
operation will be forced to charge 
higher fees.
Although the theory that the stu­
dent should bear an increasingly 
greater part of the cost of his édu­
cation is being generally accepted,
Dr. Arnett advocated gradual rather 
than sudden inauguration of the pro­
gram under which he would bear the 
entire expense. A study of the tuition
fees of 200 private colleges and uni-1 . ., ,versities, he said, showed an averagP °£ Amfica- have begun to rescue help the printers! If the asylums of 
increase of 77.3 per cent since 1920. ¡their dreams they have begun to this country show an alarming in­paint somewhat madly and furiously, crease in inmates we shall know 
What would you have of the sons \ where much of the influx is coming 
and heirs of a generation that has had ! from. Some of the younger contrib- 
to prohibit mercurial passions and utors seem to carry on like an under-
competent to attempt the concoction 
of the magic alembic that will draw 
off the slag of obtuse coarseness and 
mediocrity that has gripped many of 
the aspects of modern life. In justice, 
it may be said that these scribblers 
and poets have felt the keen edge of 
desires unaccountable, and here in all 
the welter and thumping hurly-burly
scribes adequately the state of the 
arts here with the attempt to assimi­
late elements of foreign provenience. 
The poetical works are almost uni­
formly inarticulate. There is a tug 
and a straining at figures and imper­
ishable glimpses but these are entire­
ly overclouded by the tricky tech­
nique. As for the typography, God
“There will, however, be the oppor- j1 
tunity for a long time to come,” he j _
persons to give for endowments to
I be established to aid the students, it j furnish scholarships and loans for
C F Ackenlieil j Croix’s History of Genghizcan
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers 
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattisman 
D. H. Barr 
G. H. Merrin
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen Margaret McConnaughey Helen Zeleznjak.
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R. WelirleT. R. Zenc D. H. Gen ter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager..Harold Kandell 
Assistants—
G. Brahmst J. Roth
G. C. Harbison B. Wedner
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bottonari
H. Rosenberg
A. Frank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass S. Bluestone 
I. LevinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville 
G. E. Miller
Offloo—Room 12, Induntrlcn Bulldlni?. Ofilc« 
Hour OL«onday to Thurmlayi), 12:00-1:20 
Paper made up Frldny, 12:110-6:00.
To Inauro publication on the 'Buccccdlnff 
Tuesday, newii Itomi munti b<* In the ntudent 
pout office or Tartan Office before 4:30 Thura-
After Office Hours call Schcnley 1490, 
8chenl«y l)H4(l, Bchontoy «211.All rMtorials which are initialed r.oìj\ -’ed by persons other than 
dltorlals arepro coi.'émperatu ,1- .u.iifiíüii.üd
the Great, first emperor of the An 
dent moguls and Tartars, published in j 
London in 1722. The book was the ! 
stimulus needed to set into activity an j 
imagination capable of seeing clearly I 
and sensibly all the reality and ro- | 
mance of that ancient person, that I 
ancient king of strange peoples. The I 
imagination responded: and thence-j 
forth Gottfried had a glorious time re- 
visualizing and re-living the intricate 
life of his character. His interest was 
not the interest of a historian bent on 
all manner of fact, yet there was 
enough of the scholar in him to permit 
him a complete view of the setting 
and epoch; rather, his interest was 
In the beauty and tho vitality of tlie 
legend which clothed the early years 
of the Khan. Further, his reverence 
for his subject saved him from play­
ing with What is now author’s wit, 
popular now with biographers and also I 
those attempting anachronistic solu- j 
tlons of the intimcies of Trojan 
Helens. Largely speaking, there are i 
overtones of similarity: that is, they | 
all are concerned with making ancient 
people seem perfectly credible to mod­
ern readers. Sepanttely, Gottfried de­
sires credibility, a virtue disregarded 
by most of his contemporaries. Never 
does ho sacrifice a legitimate histori­
cal thrill for an aphorism; always 
does he seek to make his situation 
and character intelligible in terms of 
•Men" 'Cn'H iliiiil'iGntiilGl'G.
Thus we get not only a historical 
portrait, convincing and thoroughly 
delightful, but also a portrait of a gor­
geously swash-buclcling (1 hesitate to 
The ninth Campus Week for Car- use the phrase) hero. To have ac- 
The event tills ‘ complished this dual task is a credit
was announced.
Change in Student Goal.
"Heretofore most of the students 
were planning*to devote themselves 
to public service of some kind, but 
now that the majority expect to enter
fancies and fine frenzies until an en- graduate class in art school. There
worthy students of slender material I tirf continent had been won? It is is talent "in them thar folks" perhaps,
resources and to provide for the en- "ot that the descendants of but one must be prepared to tear uprirhmonf nr il,n " tlle frontiersmen now pile up on the the spelling book and the dictionary
Education Costs Increase bandwagon and cut up as do the crew and the book of etiquette and the
The public has been verv generous. 0£J“,e Amertam Caravan. ; class notes to appreciate them. . . .
The total endowment of the institu-L 1S aPParent that many of the. There., are two Pittsburgh contrib-
some remunerative employment for tions of higher learning in the coun- 1 more genuine expiessions m utors represented, Professor Haniel 
which a college education is sup-; try in 1900 was $177,127,965; iu 1921 \
posed to fit them better there is jus-; it was *814,718,813, and at present it i tral'sPlantC'' cultures
tice in requiring them to pay the ! is doubtless more than $1,000,000,000, ! '"roAxxct 'vh.lch a to be callf[1 beaut>’ I
cost," Dr. Arnett said. I an increase in 27 years' of 465 per ! *?“? American lias not yet been pre-
Such a system, he added, can be cent/'. | cipitated. even by this volume. Corn-
worked out so that it will not exclude j Expenses of college education, oil ! i’ar-e. AUer Brody’s opus entitled
the worthy but indigent student, who 1 the other hand, have gone up rapidly, 1 LowlllK
desires a college education. i Dr. Arnett added, so that there is
“Persons desiring a college educa-1 "doubt whether the public will in-
tion and capable of benefiting by it,. crease its gifts in large proportions." ¦ , .............,
even if unable to pay for it at the: The total current income of the ia cand)' .stor? 4 le Bronx, whicli
time, should be enabled to obtain it I higher institutions "r -------- 1 speaks 111 faithful accents of tho ]
through scholarships," he continued. 1019-20
education is sup-; try in 1900 was $177 127 965- in 193d j I>™se and poetry here are drawn from Long of Carnegie Institute ot Tech-‘ The indigenous \ nology and Stanley Burnshaw.
One David O’Neil delivers himself 
of the following composition:
Pin Pricks.
It may not mean a lot to you . .. . 
but a pin-prick 
means a lot 
to a toy balloon 
that has a passion 
for flying.
So likewise, some of the pieces in 
a lot to you,
the Night, for example, 
| with Eric WaTrond’s sketch, Citv 
Love. In the case of the former, the 
scene is laid "in a bedroom back of
"and also by means of loans which 
they would be required to repay 
when they had become financially 
able, which might take a period of 20 
to 30 years. There may be reasons 
why women should not so freely go 
in debt. It may, therefore, be wiser 
to have more scholarships for them. ’ 
The results of this future policy.
0 was $152,401,295 and in 1925-i cartcatured re-j the book may not mean
was $315,901,197, an increase ol »? by M“‘ A* ^ " al-1 but they certainly mea,rniirl WP nro n*p:arpn In n morahro nni*. 1 tnoiv an4lisina ACHI EV /V26 it 
110 per cent,he declared. The
mean worldB to
Irond, we are treated to a macabre por-j their authors. And if often the notes 
crease in the tuition was 152 per cent I‘7*, Afro^merfcan "lovin'” in , are rather discordant, it is well to re­
in the same period, and the share 0f I w*licl1 ,the African survivals seem <o , member that no one has been able yet
the expense borne by tuition gained ! Plf »'“»st a larger part than 11,0 t0 compose a symphony in the throes
from 20 to 32 per cent. Gifts to en-l-~ •enCe 15 -to be termed of birtli-pains.
dowment funds in 1925-1926 alone. 
Dr. Arnett said, aggregated $117,281,-‘ 
101. C. S. M.
! American. And again, the story by INATHAN MILLER.
PLAY REVIEW
THISTLEDOWN
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
KING LEAR
those by tho editor.
CAMPUS WEEK
nogio was a success, 
year has boon somewhat of an exper­
iment, many of those In charge woro 
doubtful rogardlnir it. A two-day 
Campus Week with little or no decor- 
a tlons seemed like a pro-ordained fail­
ure. Ilowevor. ’the foasablllty of the 
affair has been proven beyond doubt.
Tho gonoral committee deserve 
most of the credit for the smooth man­
ner In which everything came about. 
The obstacles In the way of a success­
ful Campus Week this year wore 
much greater than in previous years, 
but In spite ,of them the committee 
was able to cope with the situation 
and with tho aid of the weather the 
event was the best of any during the 
last four years.
If the alumni had been back things 
might have been a bit brighter. How­
ever the experiment of Campus Week 
as we have had it this year has proven 
beyond doubt that its success does not 
depend on the alumni attendance, dec­
orating or any of the things formerly 
thought essential. The success of the 
event is a function of but two things, 
namely: the weather and the commit­
tee.
Campus Week is an affair that is 
needed by the students and certainly 
is desired by them, as has been amply 
shown during the past year when a 
revolution almost took place within 
the rangs at the news of the possi­
bility of its not being permitted.
It is to be hoped that the adminis­
tration include Campus Week in the 
social calendar of the school for many 
years to come. The virility of the 
event is only too obvious, when one 
considers the success with which it 
was carried on this year despite the 
obstacles and opposition it met on al­
most every side.
Y.W.C.A. Conference At 
Egglesmere Is June 9-20
Tho Y. W. C. A. are anticipating and 
planning to have a largo roprosonta- 
tlon at Eaglosmero. This year tho 
conference will be hold from Juno 9 
to 20 at which time many prominent 
speakers will discuss with the student 
body questions which confront the 
American youth. Every girl on tho 
Carnegie campus is entitled to go to 
Eaglesmere. The expenses are com­
paratively low, and the enjoyment of 
the conference is exceedingly worthy 
of the time.
The last discussion dinner of the 
eason will be held Tuesday evening, 
ay 15, in the Recreation Hall of M.
C. C. At this meeting the installa- 
of the newly elected officers willA
to Gottfried’s imagination and taste
I hesitate to enlarge on the qualities 
of the story: for the yarn Itself is a 
simple one, hardly more than that of 
a young prince of tho Orient, loving 
and fighting quite at ease and quite 
without purpose for many years, then 
of his realization of tho glories of con­
quest and power, and of his subse­
quent dismissal from his mind and 
body thoughts of the component 
charms of his more than a hundred 
women. There Was, of course, tho dis­
illusion of women to act as a force 
motivating this final realization of his 
powers as a military person; and of 
that Gottfried has much to say In nar­
rative, not in exposition. There is a 
minimum of explanation, of analysis. 
His method is far more direct. Temu- 
gln (his hero—why not Genghiz Kahn, 
I do not know) suffers perhaps from 
this method as far as clearness of 
character is concerned. I don't think 
I know precisely what manner of per­
son he was, but Gottfried is not want­
ing particularly to let me know. 1-Ie 
is content with telling me the tilings 
the young and aging Temugin did, of 
his associations, in particular, with 
the great Ung Khan, with Gemuka, 
with Purta Coujeen and with, finally, 
Guzisar. These last two women are 
Temugin’s most emphatic interests. 
If there is a centralization in the 
story, it is the jealousy and complexity 
surrounding the two women and Te­
mugin, with a background of court in­
trigue involving Ung Khan and Ge­
muka. Through these two plots the 
story mounts to a splendid and sweep­
ing climax, bloody, ironic, dramatic.
Here is gusto, here is an imagina­
tive creation worthy of the great in 
letters, here is fiction that seems sel­
dom like fiction, which, when it does, 
seems fiction of the most legitimate 
kind, full of tho kind of life which 
only the finest varieties of fiction can 
achieve. Cathay and Tartary becomo 
a humorous, brilliant roality. "Prelude 
to Battle” will glvo you a kind of de­
light comparablo only to tho delight 
In reading world books. "Prelude to 
Battle” will give you somotlilng moro 
than shoor amusement; thore will bo 
a kind of pormanonco In your reac­
tion. Spring (and spring books) will 
seem far loss slmplo combinations of 
pale pink and palo blue and not very 
luminous whites.
E. W. W.
take place and a speaker will bo had 
as before.
The Y. W. C. A. are planning to 
have a retreat for the incoming cabi­
net. The old cabinet will take tho 
new cabinet to the Methodist Camp in 
Sewickley, and they will discuss to­
gether the plans £/• \ext year.
A Review.
ïn criticizihg any production of Klng 
i;3ttîY Wt‘ ivotlia xiVAvü/f lo • raiiefrt'Hr 
tliat t.lils play bas never been so süic 
cessful as Shakespeare’s other great 
tragédies; that. peoplo are apt. to ox- 
pect too miicli from It; that, In struc­
ture, If Is not. nearly so modem as t’ae 
othors; that, In several scenes,
Shakospearo toolc llttle pains to im- \ miraculously to life.
¡was free and plastic enough to mould j Thistledown has certainly not in- 
i herself into it. Miss Copas did not i'tended tc annoy any of his readers 
! impress one as doing tills, although i by talking about bis identity, and he 
|in herJast performance she did make has not done it boastingfy. Whonc<e,r 
| a Goi 9 ~1 that can, at moments, be \ he has referred to his incognito he 
Vememoered without pain. In appear- j has tried to make his reference a 
ance, of course, she was immensely I jocular one, and he suspects J. B. 
satisfying—not as Goneril, perhaps— j of not having a very acute sense of 
but rather as a lady of King James’ i humor, lie has written so much 
court, or, to quote what many have 
said, as a. figure in an old tapestry or 
a fine creation in tinted wax come
prove upon his source; and that pro- ‘ 
tend as much as we will, a. groat deal 
of King Lear will seem lame to us, 
no matter how well produced.
Yet tho current, production is dis­
appointing for moro rensons than 
these. Unquostlonabljr, on the first 
night at least, It was a. pitiful weak 
and shambling thing. Since then it 
has begun to take on a semblance of 
polish, and If the run wore to extend 
over a porlor of, say ton years, I have 
not tho slightest doubt that It would 
be, fit tho expiration of that time, 
more polishod still. And then too, the 
actors would, in spite of all their ef­
forts to tho contrary, have grown up 
in ten years, and that would help, I 
think. Although perhaps a number of 
them would be more confirmed than 
ever in their courses. Mr. Rogers, for 
example, will be no subtler a villain 
then, for the movies will have claimed 
him. Or if they do not, they will be 
very foolish. By that time, too, Mr. 
Lewis should not be forced to play 
tragic parts, for he will have distin­
guished himself in the rare and de­
lightful medium that is peculiarly his 
own. And also, it is to be hoped that 
Mr. Willson will by that time have 
given up his allegiance to the Santa 
Claus school of makeup, and, being 
older, have discovered other means to 
simulate age than mere gruffness of 
voice. For Mr. Willson’s Lear was 
old chiefly in voice, and that but in 
moments of passion. In gesture, in 
carriage, and, be it said ^gain in that 
unfortunate, face-concealing mask of 
a make-up, he was not convincing. 
This is no condemnation of Mr. Will­
son’s Lear. For so young an actor, 
it was worthy of high praise; for an 
actor with so little of the mad king in 
his own personality, it was a distinct 
triumph. Had the scenes in which he 
playod been more smoothly done, it 
might have appeared so. But the 
scones were allowed to drop; where 
they should have been quickened and 
Intensified to tho utmost, they wore 
often painfully slow and oratorical, 
where they noodod this same deliber­
ate, elocutionary, Majestic quality, 
tlioy wore apt. to sink Into trivial real­
ism. Tills was not all the actors’ 
fault, but a groat deal of It was. A 
director cannot mako an epic out of a 
handful of pretty smiles, nor a chef 
d’oeuvre where theyere is no oeuvre. A 
tempest cannot be produced out of a 
vacuum, nor a conflagration out of 
smoke and sputter.
Of all those who played the female 
parts, Mrs. Gregg was without doubt 
the most satisfying. Here, one felt, 
was an actor who captured something 
of tlie true Goneril, who herself sawj 
into the actual spirit of the part, and1
As Regan, Miss Wertz was cruel and 
cold and haughty, but too much in the 
school-marm manner. Miss Tedrow 
was cruel too, but she was not Regan.
Of the four Cordelias, Miss Wein­
berg came closest, to what the part de­
manded: warmth, sympathetic under­
standing, humanness, life, sincerity- 
one could feel all these in her Cor­
delia. Miss Kozinski’s part was well 
enunciated, but little more. Mlss*Mc- 
Fadden, though- a lovely queen for a 
campus, was not a good one- for a 
Shakespeare play.
Of all the actors, 1 should say that 
Mr. Willson, Mrs. Gregg, Mr. Green­
berg as the Fool, arid Mr. Fisher were 
the best, or rather the most promising, 
which is quite a different thing. Take 
Mr. Fisher, for example—one can see 
in him a hard worker, a sincere play­
er, yet withal something of a mounte­
bank just now. His Kent gave some 
of the most enjoyable moments in the 
production, although it seemed strain­
ed and forced and melodramatic in 
the over-quiet court scene—later, 
though still over-theatrical, it was full 
of gusto, and tremendously appealing. 
What will he play next year? Given 
careful directing, and the parts he de­
serves, he may possibly make some 
spectacular failures, but, much more 
probably he should certainly make 
more than one spectacular success.
Mr. Greenberg's Fool was agile, 
quite Elizabethan in conception, and 
was never allowed to lapse for one 
second. I should call it his best piece 
of work in the Drama School.
Mr. Lewis was not at ease in the 
part, nor in that of Gloucester either, 
although in the latter he was enor­
mously better than as the Duke in 
Measure for Measure.
Mr. Sullivan was a good enough 
Bedlam beggar, but a dreadful failure 
as Edgar, for the reason that he Is too 
much a character actor to be success­
ful in a straight part.
Mr. Rogers was, as always, interest­
ing. His soliloquy about bastards was 
particularly enjoyable. But he was 
too simple and complete a villain for 
Shakespeare; he was too theatrical; 
he did not act, but made loud, sar­
donic speeches before an audience. 
Now lie must forget his audience and 
submerge himself sincerely in his 
part; he must give less of chest and 
more of heart and brain to it. That 
is, if he wishes to be a legitimate ac­
tor. If he prefers the bastard form of 
the movies, very well—he will like it, 
the directors will like him, and he will 
undoubtedly acquire a huge and start­
ling and shocking collection of letters 
from spinsters, school marms, steno-
about Hell Weeks and Plebe. Regula­
tions, because, contrary to J. B., 
something can be done about them 
Hell Weeks should not be so bar­
barous; plebe haircutting is an atroc­
ity; regulations ought to end at 
Christmas. Thistledown has some 
hope that regulations will end at 
Christmas next year. At any rate, 
Thistledown intends to keep pound­
ing at these things until every Tech 
student has given them some thought.
The Grill may expect its drubbing 
at Thistledown’s hands very soon, 
possibly next'week. In the meantime, 
why can’t we get hot food there, why 
do we have to pay so much for what 
we get, and why can’t we have better 
service? Thistledown suggests that 
J. B. do as he does when some sweet 
coed leaves her cookery text on a 
table lie wants. In such a situation. 
Thistledown simply puts her book on 
his tin tray and hands both to the 
buss boy. Only once has an irate co­
ed come down upon him for so doing. 
He dispatched her by assuring her 
that it was al a mistake, all a mistake.
As to tennis courts, Thistledown 
long ago realized the hopelessness 
of writing about them. Thistledown 
does think the few we have might 
have been made ready to play on a 
little more' quickly this spring. He 
assumes that by the time this is 
printed they will be ready, but who 
can tell? Unfortunately, the faculty 
seems to believe that cordial rela­
tions with the P. A. C. are of more 
importance than an attempt to make 
as many courts as possible available
graphers, housewives and village vir­
gins in the shortest possible time.
So much for the acting. With a final 
word of praise for Mr. Willson’s tri­
umph over so many obstacles, I pass 
on to the production itself. It is easy 
to generalize here: polish, rhythm,
control, were all lacking; stage busi­
ness was none too dexterously han­
dled; casting was, in one instance at 
least, absurd—that of the Herald; 
costuming, for the King at least, was 
woefully inadequate, but satisfactory 
otherwise; lighting was in the main 
skillfully done, except in the final 
scene, where, if at any point, a chia­
roscuro effect was needed; but the 
lighting was poor quality, and clicked; 
the organ music was pretty, but in­
appropriate, and at the end of the play 
forced the actors to bellow; the 
scenes were often wooden and awk­
ward where they might have been 
powerful, and trivially amusing where 
they should have been tragic—on the
to its own students. As to free courts, 
this is supposed to be an impoverish­
ed institution, as any one realizes 
shortly after enrolling here. The fac­
ulty tells us so too, but Thistledown 
has never pretended to understari^ 
-his. nvofs;.. ¦¦¦ —ow.
Thistledorri—kuc-x- .»
"carbon copy” program is, but he is 
sure that M. B. M.’s optimistic com­
munication is rather ridiculous. There 
is no such thing as clean politics— 
Nathan Miller will probably write an 
article now to refute this, versatile 
man—in school or out, at Tech or in 
Pittsburgh. And M. ¦ B. M. must be 
singularly full of illusions not to 
have realized this before. Thistledown 
is a fraternity man, not without some 
power and popularity, and he frankly 
and unhesitatingly admits that he has 
at times had a hand in the engineer­
ing of campus elections. He has gone 
after the women's vote, and got it; he 
has made-unblushing use of fraternal 
obligations, fraternal friendships,- and 
fraternal animosities in his scheming; 
he has made and broken fraternity 
combines in his endeavors to elect 
the candidates he happened to be sup­
porting. Thistledown, however, is too 
good a politician to make a dirty mess 
of things as some people—there is no 
need of names—have been doing in 
the recent campus elections M. B. M. 
is complaining of. Thistledown was 
too busy with other things to take a 
guiding hand in those. He loudly and 
distinctly condemns the underhanded, 
low practice of stuffing the ballot 
box, and cheating in the counting of 
votes. When Thistledown has anything 
to do with running an election he 
handles it with a little skill and in­
telligence. He does not let every 
one see the strings as they are being 
pulled. At least one result is that he 
is never embarrassed by letters 
about his dirty methods in the Tartan.
Thistledown is glad to welsome 
Doc Marks back from the Pirates’ 
camp. Thistledown wonders if any of 
the art students would be willing to 
exclaim to him the mystic art treas­
ures of Perugia. What's this blah on 
the front page addressed to the plebes ? 
"You have been tried and found to 
meet the test and now it is your 
privilege to become members of the 
Clan Carnegie.’’ Very prettily put. 
Thistledown rolled around on his floor 
in a paroxysm of laughter when he 
read that it was perhaps difficult for 
the students at Carnegie to realize 
the earnestness with which the 
Quarterly is regarded by the staff. 
He wonders if the Quarterly is print­
ing any of the manuscripts he sub­
mitted. Thistledown has nothing to 
say about Lear, except that he hopes 
Midsummer-Night’s Dream will be 
better. But w’here was K. S. N.’s re­
view?
Minneapolis, Minn.—Charles Peter­
son put so much life in his production 
of "High Pressure,’» a farcical Arab 
production, that the report became 
whole, then, not a production which spread about that the youth, a student
deserves to rank with the Shakespeare 
performances of the past, but rather, 
one which should be set down as an 
example of high-vaulting ambition 
which o’er leaped itself.
K. S. N.
at the University of Minnesota, was 
wanted by the Foreign Legion for de­
sertion.
Peterson penned an appeal to May­
or Thompson against such foreign in­
terference.
