The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 23_____________________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JULY 18, 1944
New Committee Becomes Permanent Student Organ
Prof. G. Cleeton 
Heads Social Div.
Professor Glen U. Cleeton has 
been appointed Director of the Divi­
sion of Humanistic and Social 
Studies of Carnegie Tech, President 
Robert E. Doherty announced to­
day. Professor Cleeton succeeds Dr. 
Willard E. Hotchkiss, who retired 
on July 1.
Professor Joseph B. Rosenbach 
will serve as new secretary of the 
division, it was also disclosed.
A member of the faculty of C.
I. T. for twenty-one years, Professor 
Cleeton is nationally known as a 
consultant in industrial relations.
The Division of Humanistic and 
Social Studies, of which Professor 
Cleeton becomes executive head, en­
compasses the Economics, English, 
History, Mathematics, Modern Lan­
guages, and Psychology and Educa­
tion Departments of C. I. T. The 
Division, which was organized in 
1938, also handles the Social Rela­
tions Program.
Professor Cleeton is a native of 
Missouri and received the B.S. de­
gree from the State Teachers Col­
lege there in 1918. He received his 
M. A. degree from Iowa State Uni­
versity in 1923 and has done grad­
uate work at the University of Chi­
cago and the University of Pitts­
burgh. He was associated with the 
public schools in Missouri before 
coming to Carnegie Tech.
He becomes director of the divi­
sion after holding the post of As­
sistant Director since 1942. Other 
positions he has held at Carnegie 
Tech are Head of the Department 
of Printing, Head of the Depart­
ment of Industrial Education, Pro­
fessor of Psychology, Associate and 
Assistant Professor, and Instructor 
of Psychology.
He is a fellow of the American 
Association for Applied Psychology, 
Associate, American Psychological 
Association, past president of the 
local chapter of the American As­
sociation of University Professors, 
and member of Epsilon Pi Tau, Phi 
Kappa Phi, the Society of Sigma Xi, 
and the Society for the Promotion 
of Engineering Education.
Professor Rosenbach, a native of 
New York, came to Carnegie in 
1920 as Instructor in Mathematics. 
He became Assistant Professor in
1923, Associate Professor in 1928, 
and Professor in 1935. He received 
the B. A. degree from the Univer­
sity of New Mexico in 1917 and the 
M. S. degree from the University 
of Illinois in 1919.
He has published numerous books 
in the field of Mathematics, and is a 
member of Zeta Beta Tau, the So­
ciety of Sigma Xi, Phi Kappa Phi, 
and an honorary member of Beta 
Sigma Rho. He is also a Fellow of 
the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science, a member 
of the American Mathematical So­
ciety, Mathematical Association of 
America, Circolo Matematico di 
Palermo, and the Society for the 
Promotion of Engineering Educa­
tion.
More Softball Despite 
End of Tournament
Although the softball tournament 
officially ended last week, the games 
continue unabated. One of the most 
spectacular, and well-played games 
of the season was last week’s shut­
out game between the Army All- 
Stars and the Navy. The highlight 
of the game, which was taken easily 
by the soldiers, was the brilliant 
pitching of “Bovy” Bovenizer, army 
ace hurler. Until the last sailor 
came to bat, Bovy had,not permit­
ted one hit. Then Seaman Burner 
spoiled the perfect record by hit­
ting sharply to left field. There was 
no score on the part of the Navy 
and the soldiers won to the tune of 
7-0.
Section A12 defeated section D12, 
19-5. The defeat of the ‘juniors’ 
was quite excusable, since it was 
their first game of the season and 
A12 was a finalist in the tourna­
ment recently completed.
In the second game of the after­
noon, the Company D men of the 
second platoon defeated their oppo­
nents of A21 with a score of 7-2.
Tech Students Assist 
Playhouse Production
Assisting in the current produc­
tion of “The Play’s the Thing” at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse are sev­
eral students of Carnegie Tech. 
“Casey” Boyd Stine, a “dramat” and 
member of the Beta Theta Pi fra­
ternity, plays the part of Dr. Mell, 
a hotel manager whose farcial na­
ture affords the audience an oppor­
tunity for a good many laughs. 
From the Fine Arts College along 
with “Casey” are Miss June Shan­
non, properties director, and Misses 
Ellen Hovde and Joan Bower, light­
ing managers. Mr. Robert Gill, in­
structor in Drama, is' director of 
“The Play’s the Thing.”
The spicy farce involves a play 
on words which is deftly woven into 
the action of the production. Be­
cause of good acting and such a plot, 
the play is arousing favorable com­
ment.
Students, Faculty 
Plan To Cooperate
The recent formation of the Stu- 
dent-Faculty Liaison Committee has 
just been announced by the mem­
bers, six students and three mem­
bers of the faculty. This commit­
tee, originated at the beginning of 
this semester by a few students with 
the purpose of becoming a channel 
of mutual aid and information be­
tween students and the faculty, has 
already been active for more than a 
month.
The aims of the committee are, 
and we quote:
1) Calling attention to problems 
which the students believe merit 
consideration.
2) Providing a source of student 
opinion in matters requiring stu- 
dent-faculty attention.
3) Helping to improve teaching 
methods.
4) Making investigations and ob­
taining information that will assist 
in pursuing the preceding aims.”
The present student members of 
the Liaison Committee are:
David B. Jones, E. E.
Leonard S. Lerman, Chem. 
Ernest A. Lowenstein, Phys. 
George E. Pake, Phys.
Jack S. Pollock, Mech. Aero. 
Edgar R. Stephens, Chem. 
Faculty members are:
Director Webster N. Jones 
Prof. B. R. Teare, Jr.
Prof. William R. Work.
The committee meets every three 
weeks, and the minutes of the meet­
ings will be published in the Tartan. 
The minutes of the first two meet­
ings will appear in the next issue.
Today’s Pops Concert 
Features Grand Opera
A Pops Concert, directed by 
Victor Saudek, will be held on the 
plaza of the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ 
Memorial at 9:00 p. m. tonight. Two 
soloists will sing at this concert: 
Alice Long, soprano, and Vivian 
Johns, contralto.
The program, consisting entirely 
of grand opera, is as follows:
1. Triumphal March from Aida..
.......................................... Verdi
2. Overture to Magic Flute.Mozart 
3 Aria from Tannhauser. .Wagner
Alice Long
4. Fantasy from Pagliacci............ i
........................... Leon Cavaloo
5 Prelude—Siciliana and Inter­
mezzo .. Cavallierria Mascagni
6. Aria from Mignon ........Thomas
Vivian Johns
7. LaBoheme .....................Boccinni
8. Letter Duet from Figaro.Mozart 
Alice Long and Vivian Johns
9. Dance of the Hours.. .Ponchielli 
Acting as hostesses will be The
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh, 
and H. C. Frick Educational Com­
mission Summer Conference.
Know Pittsburgh’s History — 
City Founded On Bloodshed
This is the first of a series of ar­
ticles which will relate the unusual 
story of Pittsburgh. This tale, when 
excerpted from the unexciting 
pages of the history textbook and 
transplanted into the very places 
and districts with which you are 
familiar, becomes alive, exciting. 
Knowing it, dull common-place 
streets are magicly transformed in­
to fascinating historic settings. To 
anyone who has lived here, this 
story should be a well of drama and 
interest, both enjoyable and valu­
able.
The city of Pittsburgh is an his­
torically famous place; yet few of 
us, who daily walk over that ground 
on which the blood of our fore-fa­
thers was shed, realizes its roman­
tic story.
. Back in the days when America 
was discovered the Golden Trian­
gle was a wooded swamp where 
various Indian tribes had summer 
camps. Allegheny County is named 
for one,of these early tribes, the Al- 
legeni. Cleron, a Frenchman, was 
one of the first white men to see the 
place where these three great rivers 
meet. He was on a mission for his 
country and, as he sailed down the 
Allegheny and Ohio, he buried 
round lead plates claiming that land 
for France. However he passed this 
historic spot with a mental com­
ment something like this: “This 
land is too swampy and insect in­
fested for white men; so I will bury 
my lead plates elsewhere” No plate 
was buried here though others have 
been found at lesser river junctions.
A few years later, when colonial 
expansion had begun its westward 
trend and when the seeds of the 
French and Indian War were being 
sown, the Governor of Virginia sent
the young surveyor, George Wash­
ington, on a threefold mission: he 
was to study the land near the 
point, observe the French advances, 
and demand an explanation about 
this aggression from the French 
commander It was during this ex­
pedition that Washington’s raft was 
overturned by the icy Allegheny, 
forcing him and his companion to 
spend a bitter night on a windswept 
island. Washington Crossing Bridge 
marks the approximate spot of this 
accident.
However, in spite of mishaps and 
hardships, the young men returned 
safely to Virginia to report the seri­
ous inroads of the French. Short­
ly after this perturbing news had 
been delivered, the English began 
constructing a fort at this point. 
This fort, named for Prince George, 
was the first actual white settle­
ment at what was later to be Pitts­
burgh. Heretofore, there had been 
Indians and traders, but mostly 
dear, buffalo, wildcats, reptiles, and 
mosquitoes. Now the ax rang on 
the giant trees; Pittsburgh was 
born in a hostile wilderness. But 
trouble stirred; and that event oc­
curred which finally ignited the 
ready fires of war. Down the wa­
ters of the Allegheny sailed a huge, 
impressive and fearsome force of 
French and Indians. The small Eng­
lish garrison watched from the half­
built fort and knew grimly that 
they were beaten. No shot was fir­
ed. The French, with only a few 
threats, had won the first battle for 
the land where the three rivers 
meet. Thus little Fort Prince 
George, which the English had so 
nobly begun, became the well- 
known Fort Duquesne.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 18, 1944
Cdito^L Almcltaisi
The Student-Faculty Liaison Committee
We wrote last week: “Democracy is based on government of the peo­
ple, by the people, and for the people, and this is only possible if each and 
every man of that people is an integral part of his country, taking an active 
interest in all phases of government and society.” Realizing this, and 
knowing moreover that this applies not only to the government but to 
every other organization in a democratic society, and that, therefore, some­
thing should be done about it at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, a 
group of students and faculty members formed the Student-Faculty Com­
mittee.
Although the purpose of this committee is implied in the word 
“liaison,” it is more clearly described in the official aims, and in order to 
acquaint the students with this Liaison Committee, slated to play an im­
portant part in their future at C.I.T., we shall list and discuss these aims 
more thoroughly.
4‘The aim of the Student-Faculty Liaison Committee is to serve the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology by
1) calling attention to problems which the students believe merit consid­
eration.”
In other words, the committee shall discuss the various controversial 
issues which today are found in the C.I.T. curriculum, faculty, and man­
ner of teaching.
“2) providing a source of student opinion in matters requiring student- 
facuity attention.”
This point embodies a very important purpose of the committee, for it 
states that in the discussion of the problems mentioned in (1), and many 
others which will be brought up by members of the faculty, the students 
will receive an official opportunity to supplement faculty experience with 
their opinion.
“3) helping to improve teaching methods.”
The students, through the Liaison Committee, not only have a chance 
to bring up and discuss problems, but to make suggestions and originate 
ideas which will improve the Carnegie Institute of Technology. These im­
provements may vary from small changes in a course, for example a slight 
alteration in the unit-count of certain subjects, to radical innovations affect­
ing large parts of the curriculum, such as the introduction of visual educa­
tion or a revision of the Social Relations Program.
“4) making investigations and obtaining information that will assist in 
pursuing the preceding aims.”
In many projects implied in (3) it will be necessary to obtain a large 
amount of outside information. The sub-committee, for example, which is 
now engaged in an investigation of the possibilities of visual education 
must become familiar with recent advances in that field, and its applica­
tion in other colleges.
The members of the Liaison Committee realize that in many cases the 
students lack the experience necessary to propose a sound solution to the 
problems discussed, and no one, therefore, expects the students’ suggestions 
to be carried out in all cases. Very often, however, the students will be 
able to add a great deal to the elimination of the various sore points of 
C.I.T. _ E. A. L.
Military Editorial
mm **¦ By Major Raymond W. Boberg
During these critical times, it is essential that every man and woman 
do more than just enough in his or her effort to bring the war to a success­
ful conclusion. __ A
You here at Tech are no exception.
It is true that you are doing your assigned tasks, and that the results 
of your work will be of future value to the various arms and services. But 
it is also true that your efforts here do not bear as directly upon the war 
effort as you might wish. Many of you frequently deplore the fact that 
you have so little opportunity to do something really worthwhile, some­
thing tangible, something that will bring the war a little closer to a vic­
torious end.
You have such an opportunity now.
The Fifth War Loan Drive has begun, and you have an obligation to 
meet. The quota set for this unit is one twenty-five dollar bond purchased 
per man, exclusive of all other bond allotments.
I know that it will require sacrifice on the part of most of you to make 
this quota, but I am confident that this quota will be met.
The drive will close on July 31. You have until then to make this 
personal sacrifice which is, in truth, an act of thrift and foresight. Let us 
all put our shoulders to the wheel of victory. Let us go over the top with 
bonds!
;¦ ___________________________________________Major Raymond W. Boberg.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttafi; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
rHONE MAYFLOWER 2900 PHONE SCHENLEY 455?
MMCKNTIO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY . „National Advertising Service, Inc. , After offlce Hours CaU
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-Chief .......................................EM. 9424
*20 maoison ave. New York. n. y. Business Manager...................................EM. 9424
CmtCMO • Bo*too * Los Aa«tL>s * Sab Fbabcisco
Entered as iMOBt-dsai matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office tinder the Act of March S, 1879.Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination period*.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor ............................................................................ Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager ......................................................................................'... Ed Friedman
One of the ASTs
Dick Kaffenberger
On a wintry morning in January, 
1924, a little boy gazed with baby 
blue eyes upon a world fraught with 
adventure and romance. It was 
Richard Kaffenberger, and he was 
one day old. The scene of this his­
toric view was East Aurora, N. Y., a 
roaring metropolis of 5,000 souls.
After many years, Mrs. Kaffen­
berger, realizing that her son’s pre-
W p 11111 * V I 
* 'f ' '
Dick Kaffenberger
cocity would be stifled in such sur­
roundings, moved to the quiet ham­
let of Rockville Centre a good golf 
stroke from Manhattan. Dick had 
just graduated from the East Au­
rora High School and was ripe for 
the initiation into the sophisticated 
world of the University. The ac­
companying photograph was taken 
of our hero during his first hectic 
days at Brown University, where he 
matriculated in September of ’41.
Since the Kaffenbergers were no 
Rockefellers, the Kaff worked his 
way through his college program as 
an instructor in a machine shop in 
Providence, teaching welding. Then, 
as the new year, 1943, was being 
ushered in with the blasts of trum­
pets, the Kaff was also ushered in, 
but to the shrill blasts of a reveille 
whistle.
He was stationed with the Field 
Artillery at Camp Maxie, Texas, 
where he underwent his basic train­
ing. The next step in his army 
career took him to Oklahoma A & M 
in Stillwater, where he was clas­
sified and given a status in the 
ASTP. From Oklahoma, Dick was 
sent to Tech. He has been here ever 
since May of 1943.
But as all other good things, Rich-
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
ard’s sojourn here must come to an 
end, and this end is fast approach­
ing. For Dick Kaffenberger is leav­
ing his buddies in the army for the 
duration and six years, if the calcu­
lations are correct. You see, he is 
one of the 150 men in the country 
who have earned admission to the 
Coast Guard Academy. In com­
petitive exams given May 10-11 to 
men qualified both physically and 
mentally Dick scored fifty-fifth in 
the nation, and was notified of his 
acceptance into the West Point of 
the Coast Guard. He will leave for 
New London at the end of next week 
and begin the four year course that 
leads to a degree in Mechanical En­
gineering and a commission as En­
sign.
It would appear that Dick’s forte 
is a scholarly one, but one would be 
quickly undeceived after a short ac­
quaintance with him, for he is a 
twinkling and effervescent person­
ality. His friends are many but his 
heart throbs are few, which is as it 
should be. The Kaff is pinned to 
Miss Dorothy Morrison of Rockville 
Centre. We (editorially) have seen 
her, and we (editorially) also think 
she is a pippen. Dick’s other sports 
include pole vaulting and diving.
Dick’s last statement to the press 
was, and we quote, “I couldn’t meet 
a better bunch of guys than those in 
the ASTP at Tech.”
The feelings are strictly mutual* 
Kaff.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
I
r t'Oûfi 0
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.?ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
