VOL. 46—No. 16 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., FEB. 24, 1953
Technical’s New Issue 
Starting Off Season
Kicking off ior 1953 season, the Carnegie Technical comes out this 
week with its February issue dedicated to and written by Pennsyl­
vania Gamma of Tau Beta Pi. The cover printed in gold carries 
a photo of a research model digital computer built on—a grinding
Wheel. Along with the cover ex-*----------------------------------------------------
planation, the 56 pages are pack­
ed with articles of popular and
scientific interest.
The lead article, Phil Eckman’s 
“Exploding Wires—a High Inten­
sity Light Source,” is the story of 
the light source used to photograph 
the famous experiments of the CIT 
Shaped Charge Group. It tells how 
science has developed a light pow­
erful enough to make photographs 
at one-half a millionth of a second. 
A two part story in plain Eng- 
> lish about “Digital Computers” by 
Robert. Robl and John Lay nor 
starting with the digital computer 
every fifth grader uses explains 
the subject up to the latest re­
search developments. The “fail­
ure” of a German scientist to mine 
gold from sea water and what 
modern convenience resulted from 
his discoveries are related in How­
ard Mcllvried’s “Ion Exchange.” 
Fred Sonnenberg tells of a modern 
( “something for nothing” in his ar­
ticle, “Increased Power through 
Series Capacitors.”
“Psychokinesis—Mind over Mat­
ter?” a discussion of an oft dis­
continued on page 21
National Magazine 
Places Tech Girl 
On College Board
Miss Carol Schalk, a student 
at Carnegie Tech, has been chosen 
to be a member of Mademoiselle’s 
national college board. She is 
one of 700 students who completed 
with applicants from colleges all 
over the country to win a place 
on the board. *
As a college board member, she 
will represent her campus and 
report to Mademoiselle on the 
^ college scene. She will complete 
three assignments that will help 
her explore her interests and 
abilities in writing, editing, fash­
ion, advertising or arts, in compet­
ition for any one of 20 guest ed­
itorships to be awarded by the 
magazine at the end of May.
The guest editors wil be brought 
to New York for four weeks next 
June to help write, edit and illus- 
> trate Mademoiselle’s 1953 August 
college issue. Their transportation ] 
will be paid to and from New 
York and they will receive a reg­
ular salary for their work. |
Nixon Offers 
Bargain Rates
An outstanding opportunity is 
currently being offered to Car­
negie students. The Nixon, in co­
operation w^th the producers, is 
providing $3.90 tickets for $1.30 
for the Monday and Tuesday 
night performances for the re­
mainder of the current season.
Students must submit their 
names in the Fine Arts office by 
5:00 p.m .of the Friday preceding 
the production they wish to see. 
The next offering provided by 
the Nixon will be Jose Greco 
and his Spanish Dance Company. 
This group is considered to be 
the world’s greatest Spanish male 
dancers. Following this produc­
tion, Joan Bennett and Zachery 
Scott will star in the Broadway 
comedy, “Bell, Book, and Candle. 
“The Male Animal” will be the 
third play offered at these bar 
gain rates.
Rushing
Changes in the PanHel 
rushing: rules for this semester 
are:
Each rushee must obtain a 
ballot from the Dean of Wom­
en’s office or from Dean Alex­
ander’s office on which she 
will list her preferences. The 
ballot must be filed in either 
office by 10:45 a.m. Monday, 
March 2, 1953. Anyone who 
does not submit her ballot of 
preferences by that time will 
not be accepted until the next 
rushing season unless other­
wise indicated to the Dean of 
Women. It is very important 
to fill in all preferences.
Rushees may pick up their 
invitations in the Dean of 
Women’s Office from 3:30 to 
5:00 pan. Monday, March 2, 
1953. II-I. Any girl who fails 
to file a ballot within the 
specified time will be consid­
ered ineligible to join a soror­
ity until the next formal rush
Warning
Students who have not re­
turned their proofs to Gim- 
bel’s Photo Reflex studio, 
should do so before March 3 
(one week from today)^~Those 
who fail to meet the deadline, 
force, us to order “best poses” 
for them to go in the ’53 
Thistle.
This means that lab tech­
nicians, who print the photo­
graphs, will choose the best 
proof for you. We can not ac­
cept any responsibility as to 
the choice that is made.
Yaughn Monroe At CIT
Caravan show recorded from Carnegie Gym
“I Love School!” Reports 
Devoted Carnegie Plan Fan
by Bill Smith
I love school!! It is undoubtedly the greatest life I have ever 
known. In fact, I never had it so good. I wake up fresh each morn­
ing full ready to meet the day and what it has in store. I awake 
joyful at the thought of all the-knowledge I will discover and all the 
logic I will use in the ensuing 244 
hours.
About 7:30 a.m. at the trolley 
stop while breathing the clear, 
fresh Pittsburgh air, I rejoice be­
cause I’m on my way to gain an 
education par excellence — one 
that will solve all my troubles and 
lead me to that cherished position 
of “Captain of Industry.” As I 
watch the raindrops roll from the 
beat-down hat brims of those 
peasants in whose midst I stand,
Artists9Awards Given; 
Students9 Faculty Win
Winning Objects Are On Display; 
May Be Seen At Carnegie Institute
John Regan, exhibition chairman of the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh has announced that many Carnegie Tech students and 
instructors have received awards in the current exhibition. The win« 
ning objects will be on display at the Carnegie Institute, February
? 13 through March 12. The gallery 
hours are Monday through Friday
Engineer’s Society 
Elects Dr, Mavis 
Section President
Dr. F. T. Mavis, head of the 
civil engineering department of 
Carnegie Tech, has been elected 
president of the Pittsburgh sec­
tion of the American Society of 
Civil Engineers for 1953.
Dr. Mavis joined the Carnegie 
faculty in 1944 as professor and 
head of the department of civil j 
engineering. He is a member of, 
the American Society of Civil 
Engineers, the American Society 
for Testing Materials and the 
American Society for Engineer­
ing Education.
He is listed in “Who’s Who in 
America,” “Who’s Who in Engi­
neering.” and “American Men of 
Science.”
I think how far above them I am 
about to be lifted and how great a 
future I will have.
As I stand, jabbed by their un­
educated elbows as the trolley 
lurches, I feel proud of the five- 
pound loaf of books—a little rain 
soaked maybe, but they contain 
the wisdom of the ages. They are 
a mark of honor I bear proudly.
When finally I alight from the 
public conveyance beneath the 
glow in the sky over CIT, I bound 
up the steps eager to reach the 
classroom — the threshold of 
knowledge. I always pass up those 
slovenly “big weekend” characters 
in their stained dungarees and 
[Continued on page 3J
Draft Exam
Any selective service regis­
trant who plans to continue 
next year as a full-time col­
lege student either at Carne­
gie or elsewhere, and who has 
not previously taken a selec­
tive service college qualifica­
tion test, should apply for the 
test which is to be given on 
April 23, 1953. All students 
concerned, including those 
who now have 1-D defer­
ments, are urged to apply for 
the test. Applications are 
available from any selective 
service local bosr'V
2-10 p.m. Saturdays 10 a.m. to 10 
p.m. and Sundays 2 to 5 p.m.
Many Winners
• Winning the Association’s sec» 
ond prize for distinguished oil 
painting was Marie Tuicvillo 
Kelly for “Lullaby Chorus.” Sam­
uel Rosenberg took the H. J. 
Grinsfelder prize for distinguished 
oil painting for “Light: Still & 
Moving,” The Christian J. Walter 
Memorial prize for oil painting of 
local subject was won by Harry 
W. Scheuch for “Point Breeze.’* 
Marty L. Cornelius received a 
[Continued on page 2J
Around The Town 
To Summarize 
Week’s Events
Another feature will be added 
tc the Tartan pages next week. 
The new column, to be entitled 
“Around the Town,” will acquaint 
you with things to do and see 
in your spare time. Although the 
column will be devoted mainly 
to campus activities, off-campus 
events of particular interest to 
Tech students will be included 
from time 4o time.
The success of this column will 
depend on the clubs and organ­
izations themselves. Any group 
that is sponsoring an open event 
may send a request for its inser­
tion in this column to: “Around 
the Town,” The Tartan, in care 
of interschool mail. Please in­
clude: date, time, event, place, 
cost (if any), organization, rep­
resentative, and a telephone num­
ber. Each column will run from 
one Tuesday to the following 
Tuesday. Insertions must beturn- 
ed in by the Friday preceding the 
Tuesday of publication.
Monroe Remembers Frosh Hazing
by Lin Smith ^
Vaughn Monroe, the tall, handsome orchestra leader who pre­
sented his Camel Caravan show to the Tech Campus was once a stu­
dent at this Institute studying voice and minoring in instrumental 
work at the Music Department. He recalled very clearly that during
the month-long freshman hazing*' 
j he was compelled to stand in one 
of the vacant niches in the Fine 
Arts Building and sing for an hour 
each day. When asked whether his 
career began in this way, he grin­
ned and said, “You might say so, 
but I was very shy at the time and 
it was embarassing.”
He was born in Akron, Ohio, 
and is a graduate of Jeannette 
(Pa.) High School. He married 
his high school sweetheart (a 
| PCW girl) and now has two 
daughters.
Helped At Tech
He attributes his success to Jean 
Sieman and Dick O’Brian both of 
whom helped him the two years 
he spent at CIT.
He was a member of the -sym­
phony orchestra; but because of 
an evening work schedule, he was 
unable to practice with the Kiltie Band.
Though he pledged Sigma Nu 
while a student, he didn’t become 
active until initiated in a formal 
ceremonies at the fraternity house
Monday noon a week ago, Febru­
ary 16, 1953.
Misunderstanding
The friendly orchestra leader 
chose “Racing With the Moon 
from all the hits he made 
as his favorite song.
At the time interviewed, he was 
looking for a non-existent crowd 
which was supposed to attend the 
reception scheduled for Thistle 
Hall after the broadcast. There 
was a mutual misunderstanding 
between the crowd and the maes­
tro about the time and place fbr 
the reception. However, most au­
tograph fans had a chance some­
time during the afternoon to ob­
tain a coveted “John Henry.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 24, 1952
Effectiveness of Chiang’s 
Formosa Forces Doubtful
by Professor T. T. Helde
The recent decision on the part of President Eisenhower’s ad­
ministration to “de-neutralize” the Chinese Nationalists on Formosa 
is of considerable pertinence, not only to the Korean war, as Pro­
fessor Schwarz demonstrated in his article last week, but to the even 
broader problem of Communist China. Considerable hopeful com­
ment has resulted, generally centering on the assumption that Chiang 
Kai-shek’s forces cm Formosa are now free to harass the Communists, 
presumably with some effect. In certain respects it is surprising that 
in an age which prides itself on efficient collection and rapid distri­
bution of information, there has been so much speculation about 
what Chiang’s forces might do, and so little consideration of the re­
sources which Chiang has available.
Progressive Island
Formosa, a fertile and attractive island, 270 miles long, off the 
southern half of the China coast, was in Japanese hands between 
1895 and 1945. During these years it was developed to an advanced 
degree of agricultural productivity and boasted one of the highest 
standards of living in the far east. One of the declared aims of the 
allies in World War II was to return (Formosa) to China. When the 
Chinese Nationalists took over in 1945, the island had suffered eco­
nomically, and it was unfortunate that the new Chinese administration 
did not start out with top-grade leadership. In fact, so vigorously was 
Formosa “exploited”—or as some say, “looted”—by dishonest Nation­
alist administrators, that native elements revolted in 1947.
A series of Nationalist reprisals exterminated somewhere be­
tween 5000 and 10,000 of the most promising young Formosans; but
Associated 
Artists—
[Continued, from page I] 
prize for best realistic landscape 
in oil with figures or animals for 
“Caliope Strains — Show Boat’s 
Cornin’.” The G. D. Thompson 
prize for best non-objective paint­
ing in oil was taken by Russel G. 
Twiggs for “Boreal Silence.”
The Anna Belle Craig Memorial 
prize was given by the Women’s 
Press club of Pittsburgh for a fig­
ure composition was won by Mary 
Ann Snowden for “Melancholia.”
The Associations first prize for 
water color was won by Richard 
Wilt for “Circus.” Carol Schalk re­
ceived the Association’s second 
prize for her water color, “The 
Cemetery.’’
Varied Art
The Carnegie Institute prize for 
the best piece of sculpture Was 
given to Eliza Miller’s “Fish Foun­
tain.” Anita Freund Morganstern
it should be added that the governor whose policies caused the re- won the Association’s prize for
volt was also executed. Chiang Kai-shek came to Formosa in the 
spring of 1949, when it became pretty obvious that the Communists 
were soon to have all of China under their control. Interestingly 
enough, his own legal status as leader of the Chinese Nationalists is 
somewhat anomalous, inasmuch as he resigned the presidency in 
January 1949 in favor of the Vice-president, General Li Tsung-jen. 
But in Formosa, Chiang reassumed his leadership of the Nationalists, 
in spite of Li’s protests that such action was illegal.
How Many Troops?
Since the outbreak of the Korean war, the possibility of Chinese 
Nationalist aid to the United Nations has become increasingly at­
tractive. With considerable financial help from the United States, 
Chiang has concentrated upon building up his administrative and 
military power. But it is difficult, indeed, to assess the actual forces 
which Chiang has on Formosa, for, evidently, they have never been 
properly counted. The favorite figure at present is the same as 
Chiang’s “estimate”: 500,000 men. But General MacArthur once 
quoted a figure of 600,000; radio commentator and “old China hand” 
George Sokolsky cited “nearly a million”: and within a week of each 
other (in 1951) the allied publications of Time and Life offered, re­
spectively, 700.000 and 500,000 men.
Apparently, when counting Formosan troops, one pays his money 
and takes his chbice. Two recent estimates, one in the magazine 
Foreign Affairs, and the other by the American Institute of Pacific 
Relations, seem to be based on more solid research than most. The 
total of Chiang’s ground forces is believed to be between 345,000 
and 370,000 troops many of whom are not well equipped and far 
from the pink of condition. Air force personnel, the navy, the service 
forces, and, significantly, 120,000 “political” and garrison troops, 
bring the total to 600.000 or 650,000 men (including 1600 generals 
and 125 admirals). The total possible number of combat effectives 
is thought to be not greater than 300,000.¦9
The above figures have been cited, not to throw a shadow on 
Chinese Nationalist capacities, but rather to try to point out the 
need for realism in judging the Formosan situation. It can hardly 
be said that Chiang’s army is poised to strike the mainland; further­
more, the removal of the United States Seventh fleet to open up the 
route to China has, conversely, opened up the route from China to 
Formosa; it is fervently to be hoped that the Chinese Communists 
do not have the potentialities to make traffic flow between China 
and Formosa in a direction opposite to that expected.
Technical—
[Continued from page 2] 
puted issue by Richard Durstine 
and the description of that import­
ant tool of research the “Diffusion 
Cloud Chamber” by N. Payton 
Campbell round out the list of re­
warding articles in the February 
Technical.
Items of interest on research 
projects appear in the newly ex­
panded Technicalities section. 
Edited by Bob Snow, this bulletin 
board of the scientific world car­
ries what’s happening in science 
and industry, where it happens 
and why it happens.
Copies of the Technical will be 
sold in Skibo this Thursday ahd 
Friday. Subscribers will have 
their issues delivered by the morn­
ing post on Wednesday or Thurs­
day. Issues including November 
and December will be available in 
the Bookstore. Price for single 
copies is 25 cents.
Scholarship
All sophomore and junior 
girls interested in applying for 
the PanHel scholarship, please 
stop in Dean Dickinson’s office. 
These forms must be complet­
ed by March 16 at the very 
latest.
Life Is Full Of Many Parties 
But—Alas!—Not All Are Alike
by Lin Smith
Thinking back to the first parties of my youth, I recall when my 
mother prettied me up and took me to little affairs at which the 
younger set (from four to five) gathered to celebrate birthdays (the 
fourth and fifth) of the offspring who were friends of my mother. 
This usually involved many sweets
Grieving Woman.” Marjorie Ma 
pie Heilman took the Society of 
Sculptors prize for “Supplication,” 
the best piece of work in perma­
nent materials. The John F. Casey 
Memorial prize was awarded to 
Jules A. Petrencs for his work, 
“Why Hast Thou Forsaken Me?”, 
the best piece of sculpture in­
spired by a religious subject. The 
Emily Maynadie Arensberg Me­
morial prize for the best piece of 
sculpture in wood was taken by 
Fay Mowery Moore for “Woman 
With Lute.”
The Mrs. Roy Arthur Hunt prize 
“French Modern Bindings” and to 
Walter J. Kipp’s “Silver Pitchier.” 
Frappe won the Vernon Benshoff 
Company Prize for “Tourmaline 
and Diamond Ring,” the finest 
metal crafts object in gold, silver 
or platinum.
The Association’s Craft prize for 
most creative work in goldsmith- 
ing, silversmithing, or enameling 
one metal was taken by Mary 
Dieffenbach’s “Sterling Salad 
Bowl”. The Edgar J. Kaufmann 
prize for enameling on metal was 
presented to Ellie Simon for her 
work, “Enameled Bowl No. 1.” 
Wesley Mills received the C. Fred 
Sauereisen prize for his ceramic, 
“Brown Clay Bowl.” The Anne M. 
Edmundson Memorial prize was 
awarded to Mable Harper Tem- 
plin’s “Flossa Rug,” the best hand 
weaving done on loom. Edna Far­
rier’s “Background Material For a 
Shop Window” received the Stu­
dio Shop prize for most creative 
work in crafts. The Gustav H. 
Niemeyer prize for best example 
of hand wrought hollow ware in 
any precious metal was presented 
to Edward M. Kosewicz for his 
“Sterling Bowl.
children dragged from the mud 
pies by their adoring mothers and 
changed from comfortable duds to 
dainty little dresses (the girls, 
that is) and to knickers (the 
boys).
Pin the Tail
All the little darlings approach­
ed the party in bad moods (having 
been deprived of their mud pies) 
and submerged for an afternoon 
of frolicking. The agenda consist­
ed of games which ended in­
evitably in “free for alls.” One 
of the fdvorites (of the mothers 
to plan—not the little ones to 
play) was pin the tail on the don­
key, which the precocious chil­
dren usually climaxed by leading 
the blindfolded victim with the 
tail to some unsuspecting soul 
whose back was turned.
Of course, there was always 
food—pink cakes and lemonade 
(spilled all over everything). For 
the remainder of the party, the 
children divided into two platoons 
—one of which carefully wrecked 
the house while the other mashed 
the birthday presents; meanwhile 
mothers chated merrily about 
their little angels.
Batter Wife 
At the next stage in growing 
up, party matters were rather 
complicated by the fact that now 
boys hate girls and girls hate boys. 
Therefore, mixed co-ed parties 
were rather difficult since they 
usualy ended with the young 
ladies perched quietly on the 
chairs talking about their fam­
ilies (dolls) while the young male 
hoodlums carried on their own 
private brawl.
A few years later we may note 
that the girls have grown a little 
skillful at ju jitsu—so the sweet 
little fellows introduced. a fab-
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Plans Journalism 
Forum Sunday
Pi Delta Epsilon, the national 
journalism honorary on campus, 
will hold a workshop forum on 
publication problems at the Car­
negie Union on Sunday, March 1, 
at 2:00 p.m. All facets of publish­
ing student magazines and news­
papers will be discussed in an ef­
fort to clear up certain difficulties 
on Tech’s campus.
Students now active in publica­
tions as well as anyone interested 
in such problems are welcome to 
attend the forum.
For the BEST
9in9 
Photographic 
Equ:pment and Supplies
liberty
Photo
Supply
Fo rtheeB t t eEh STTA NDO
BAND
OPPORTUNITY
New England Summer Resort 
has opening for good four piece 
band. Musicians double as ac­
tivities directors. Guest priv- 
i 1 e g e s extended. Write W. 
Wright, Mgr., Happy Acres 
Vacation Resort, Middlefield, 
Conn.
ulous game—Post Office! Once a 
young lady of 10, 11, 12, 13, steps 
through the foreboding door held 
by the postmaster her life changed 
—and so does the boy’s—for from 
then on boys never have a mom­
ent’s peace.
College Influence 
Then the beloved offspring, 
having reached maturity, goes 
away to college. There they en­
counter refined social parties 
where everyone gets dressed up 
(either for a masquarade or to 
impress) and gathers for an even­
ing of gaiety. This consists of 
standing in circles and beating 
on a table while passing a sign 
known as a signal. When one 
tires or passes out from this di­
version, he can play “Chicken 
if you stagger first” or gather 
in 'a. group of merrymakers and ) 
sing (songs). It is also possible 
to join a discussion on snap 
courses or snapped professors. 
These college parties usually end 
soon {everyone leaving for .anoth­
er); thus the instinct to wreck 
the residence of the affair if 
thwarted. (This is the underly­
ing cause of frustration in the 
younger generation).
KAYSoPNRUIoUYR
Students Special Lunch
SOUP
A CHOICE HOT PLATE 
FRENCH FRIES 
RICE PUDDING or JELLO 
COFFEE or TEA
60*
KMC Coffee Still Sc
Prepare for an Executive Career 
in RETAILING - in just One Tear!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on “The Tailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one 
year! Retailers needs you—and look to our graduate school—for fu- » ture advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion 
executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. Prominent retailers snd their sons and daughters to the N.Y.U. School 
of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Out one-year Master’s Degree probram includes courses in all branches of retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New York stores, -plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
100 Washington Square East
SCHOOL OF RETAILING 
New York 3, New York
IMPORTANTNOTICE
Due to the great interest in the Hughes 
Cooperative Plan for Master of Science 
Degrees, time limit for filing applications 
has been extended.
Eligible are June, 1953, college graduates 
and members of the armed services being 
honorably discharged prior to September, 
1953, holding degrees in KiKckngcoi Kfrg1
fKKngfr9 53sea,e9 th,3CTa,Cl hTmaThhu1
aTmw Those chosen will obtain Master of 
Science Degrees while employed m industry 
and performing important military work.
Write immediately for application form to: 
COMMITTEE FOR GRADUATE STUDY
HUGHES
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES 
Culver City, Los Angeles County, California

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 24, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
Playboy Alchemist 
Visits Fraternity Party
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
I had nothing in particular on my mind when I returned to my 
dingy McBoss hall cell last Wednesday after a gruelling afternoon 
in the elements of transmutation of elements l$b. I had no plans 
for the evening except an attractively served meal of hamburger 
patties and black coffee at Skibo4 — ——-__________________ 
and the writing of a paper for my 
SocRel course, bawdy literature 
C-999.
Then I thought I would rest on 
my hard pallet until the following 
morning.
Unexpected Visitor 
J But as usual, things did not 
happen as planned. I was settled 
down working on my paper when 
who should appear but my fa­
ther’s youngest son (and conse­
quently my brother), Guglielmo. 
J had not seen Guglielmo for some 
time since he is now living at the 
Beta Theta Omega fraternity 
house and doesn't very often have 
a chance to visit me any more.
So I stopped my work to chat 
1 with him. We discussed the 
weather, 39 cent beefsteak, and 
herpetology until he suddenly 
ehanged the subject. It seems 
Guglielmo had had a special pur­
pose in mind when he came to vis­
it me. He wanted me to visit a 
party at his fraternity house the 
following Saturday.
Saturday Comes
I was reluctant at first, but when
for greater 
accuracy
VENUS...
the drawing pencil 
.preferred 
by professionals
apuCniCs wliuViC lWVia
OO O 7iwuMai Dpi liuA Wa 
pT-TviVWyiA 7c Dpi iLwlMaWGi 
kiVMa gTllTWAul mCTwiaaOd
Rpi CiaMlDH u liuA DpuD&a 
.VW*TC-lc a-TTDp *CT- DTn 
DT 7TDDT- DT vWGi niC*iwD 
ACu4WVva TC DCuwWVva9VT 
.-MAvWVvs iuaWlc iCuaiAO
pTlAa nTWVD lTVviC
OOO 7iwuMai mCiaaMCitmCTT*WVvd 
Niula liuA DT Dpi 4TTA ulTVv 
Dpi niVwWl&a iVDWCi liVvDpO 
RpuD&a 4pc kiVMa ACu4WVv 
niVwWla uCi aDCTVviC O sO pTlA 
u ViiAli nTWVD lTVviCO
uwwMCuDilc vCuAiA
OO O DpuV0a DT vCuAWVv 7c 
puVAO RpuD1a 4pc kiVMas WV 
u, rB AivCiia T* puCAViaas 
*WGia iVvWViiCa Dpi wTVaWaDiVD 
vCuAWVv Dpic ViiAO
Ask for Venus drawing pencils 
W *t your bookstore.
*“ *E*clusive Venus patent
learned that it would cost noth­
ing, and that I would be supplied 
free of charge with a date (I had 
been anxious to actually meet a 
woman other than my mother 
ever since I first noticed the ex­
istence of the breed last fall), I 
accepted and agreed to arrive at 
the Beta Theta Omega (BTO) 
house at 8:30 Saturday evening. 
Guglielmo departed and I return­ed to my paper.
When the appointed day came, 
adorned myself in my yellow- 
green herringbone suit, the love­
ly orange tie that my color blind 
uncle Uriah had given me for 
Christmas, and my best pair of 
suede shoes. . s
Off to the Gardens
I then set out to find the BTO 
house, did so, and entered. There 
I was beset by a dozen individ­
uals, each of whom did not believe 
he had met me yet, but neverthe­
less was delighted that I had been 
able to come over this evening.
It was not long before one of 
them, who turned out to be a 
classmate of mine whom I did not 
know because he had not yet been 
to class, told me it was time to go 
“pick up the women.” This
frightened me, not being used to 
the jargon of these people, but it 
turns out that he meant nothing 
more sinister than collecting our 
assigned dates.
My date was a Morewood, or 
garden variety, woman. These
women are very convenient to 
date, it turns out, because they 
live close to the fraternity
houses, and not much valuable 
time has to be wasted in transit 
to and from their place of resi­
dence.
The Date Appears
Morewood Gardens is a large 
imposing structure, built some- 
[Continued on page 8J
School-
[Continued from page 1] 
crazy-quilt bow ties. They walk 
so slow seemingly not wishing to 
reach their destination.
Good Professor 
In class, I hang upon the profes­
sor’s every syllable and whenever 
something is not clear in my hum­
ble mind, I raise my hand. The 
professor—oh he is such a smart 
fellow—always listens attentively 
to my question, then says, “that’s 
a good question,” and then asks it 
right back to me. This is wonder­
ful, it gives me an opportunity to 
put my full mental powers to 
work on the problem.
I flit from one class to another 
gleaning gems of knowledge about 
this wondrous world of ours. Only 
after four fascinating lecture 
hours of learning do I permit my­
self the indulgence of lunch at the 
local dine, dance, and drinkery 
This paradise was named after 
some foolish tradition or other, but 
still provides my full charge of 
noontime nourishment. While
those about me patter of dates and 
things, I turn my mind to more 
weighty thoughts of hdw intimate 
is the sixth integral of x/y with 
the seventh.
On To School
When I finish gulping the repast, 
I rush to the lab to commence my 
afternoon of applied Carnegie 
Plan, This time is spent happily 
toying with test tubes, observing 
boiling cauldrons, and watching 
the flesh color of my partner s 
finger slowly change as I hold it 
in the radio-active acid. After 
tidying up my report sheets and 
hermetically sealing them so I can 
refer to them in the future. I pre­
pare to bid farewell-for-the-day 
to this glorious institution.
On the long trolley ride home, I 
rejoice at the day’s accomplish* 
ments and look ahead to my eve­
ning of analyzing the day s learn­
ing and intense preparation for to­
morrow. When finally 1 sink in 
bed, I fall asleep counting the 
principles I can remember and 
dreaming of my future successes 
as a Carnegie alumnus.
VENUS
'drawing pencils
4WDp 5pu vC33V wCuw0IA *WVWap
Send for helpful, illustrated 
instruction brochure "Sketching with 
Venus Pencils,’’ only 25c and get a 
FREE Venus Drawing Pencil.,-----------------------------------------------1
Ï American Pencil Co. O'"'
I Hoboken, N. J.
• Enclosed is 25c for "Sketching with Venus"— •IS I »nd my free Venus Drawing Pencil. Degree I •% J w«ntt»( ).
I ........'......... ......:..... Î
J Address .......................................................... '
! City..................................  Sute................. J
| 0/53-4 *,
fffffffOOOOOtttttttttttt'
Career opportunities 
with Continental
Positions in technical and non-technical fields
gTVDWViVDul guV gT-nuVcs established in 1905, is 
one of the nation’s 50 largest corporations. It operates 
65 plants in the U. S., Canada and Cuba, 17 field 
research offices and 63 sales offices. Continental does 
business in every important processing or manufac­
turing section of the country.
gTVDWViVDul •u0ia KnnTCDMVWDWiaO Continental is 
not only growing in its original field, but entering 
bthers. In addition to cans, it now makes paper con­
tainers, steel and fibre drums, crowns (bottle caps) 
and cork products, laminated plastics and aircraft 
parts. It maintains comprehensive laboratory research 
programs to improve present packaging and process­
ing methods and explore new ones.
gTVDWViVDul •u0ia •uVuviCaO Continental wel* 
comes college graduates not merely to fill immediate 
needs, but as material for future leadership positions. 
Regular two-year training programs have been set up 
for many positions. These take new people into numer* 
ous departments on a definite schedule and are supple­
mented with weeks or months of formal instruction 
and on-the-job training. It is Company policy to 
prepare each college trainee for ultimate management 
responsibilities.
gT-nuVc KniVWVvaO The Continental representative 
coming to this campus will be glad to discuss starting 
salaries, training and potential futures for graduating 
¿eniors, particularly in the following fields:
moK!IgR5KY •UYUFP•PYRO Engineering degree 
required, with major in mechanical, industrial, 
management or electrical fields preferred. Men 
selected will receive two years of formal training in 
production, management and staff operations. They 
will oualify for a responsible supervisory position in 
manufacturing and build towards the goal of plant 
management.
P’I5m•PYR !PN5FY UY! !PkP¦Km•PYRO Requires a 
degree in mechanical engineering and courses in 
design, mechanics and mathematics. Training for a 
place on the Development Engineering Staff and 
further advancement includes assigned problems 
and projects requiring close contact with experienced 
engineers, frequent trips to observe manufacturing 
operations.
oPNPUog, UY! !PkP¦Km•PYRO Requires a degree in 
mechanical, chemical, electrical or metallurgical 
engineering, physics or chemistry. Training for a 
place on the Research Engineering Staff and further 
advancement includes supervised execution of devel­
opment project assignments and preparation of 
reports, experiences with varied types of materials, 
methods and containers.
INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY
NPP bKIo m¦UgP•PYR K__5gP 
_Ko UY UmmK5YR•PYR
CONTINENTAL^CAN COMPANY
Continental Can Building—100 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
•U/PoN K_­ R5Y gUYNs _5?oP !oI•Ns mUmPo gKYRU5YPoNs NRPP¦ mU5¦N UY! 
K!I•Ns gUmN UY! gKo/d ¦U•5YU5P» m¦UNR5gNs U5om¦UYP mUoRN OUY! »Pg’SUohO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 24, 1953
Letter—
Poor Coverage
Sports Editor, the Tartan:
I have, what I think, is a very logical com­
plaint against the sports editor of the Tartan. It 
concerns the varsity sports coverage of Tech teams 
Although the student body may not be aware of 
the fact, we do have varsity teams hefe on the 
Tech campus. Some of these teams have excel­
lent records too, but how would the student body 
know—They’ve never been told. However, all is 
not lost. Tech students can read about their var­
sity teams, provided of course, they subscribe to 
cur opponents school papers. Tech. managed to 
capture the headlines and the first two columns 
of last week s Case school paper.
Tell me, Mr. Sports Editor, can you name the 
thre*- Tartan teams that had undefeated seasons 
last year? Or perhaps you can name the three 
teams that placed first in the Tri-State champion­
ships. If your memory fails you then perhaps you 
can do better on current event questions. Which 
two Tech teams are undefeated this year? I’m 
sure the students would have a tough time anwer- 
ing the above three questions, due of course to 
the strict news censorship.
If the sports editor of the Tartan would spend 
more time on the varsity athletic teams and less 
time publicizing his own IM basketball accom­
plishments, the student body will be better in­
formed.
Sincerely,
Disappointed Tech student.
(Eidtor’s note: Any student interested in fol­
lowing the, CIT sports record should subscribe to 
one of the Philadelphia newspapers, which out­
shine the Tartan in Tech sports coverage.)
Discrimination ?
Editor: The Tartan,
For sometime I have been pondering over what 
happens to the $72.00 a semester a fraternity man 
must pay for the priviledge of living in the fra­
ternity—dorms on campus.
First let us consider what the amount covers. 
It is supposed to pay for the heat and water bills. 
Also it covers repair on the dorms, just so long as 
they are not major improvements. Now let us 
consider what it does not cover. On top of the 
$72.00 the fraternity has to pay more money to 
cover the light, linen, and maid’s bills. The stu­
dents living in the-barracks pay almost the same 
amount and get all the above services. It appears 
that around Tech the price of choosing who you 
want to live with comes pretty high.
I understand that the surplus at the end of each 
year is put into a building fund for a new fra­
ternity house. But the catch is that all anyone 
ever hears are rumors. No accounting of where 
the money went is ever received by the fraterni­
ty. The fraternities do not know when they will 
get new houses or how much they have in reserve.
I feel that the least the school could do would 
be to send a yearly statement to the fraternities 
telling them exactly what is happening to the 
amount.
Signed,
A Fraternity Treasurer.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 1* 
Pa TELEPHONE- SChenley 1-4557 after hours MUseum
1-5380. for advertising and mbscnptions: MUseum 2-3990.
Published weekly during the school year except Holidays
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa
Iiitir-lB-Cktei .................. ....................... Fred Sonnenberg
Batiness Manager  ......... .......... David Goldsmith
Maoafinc Editor  ........... ................................ Dick Durstine
Sports Editor .......................................... Frank Ftgley
Newt Editor ........................................... .............. Estelle Herlick
Personnel Manager—DgcF Christensen Features Editor—Bill 
Smith Advertising Manager—Stan Rosenberg Assistant 
Business Manager—Jerry Seinei Circulation Manager—Joe 
LeMarca Photography Editor—Martin Snyderman Reporters 
—Sheila Sullivan. Jack Armour Joan Cummerton Jane 
Sundei Dave Hubbard Jackie Connolly Marilyn Seiner 
Ken Win.-ton. Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff, Jo Forsythe. Cab 
Reporters—Barbara Leonard Pat Maue, Elaine Manuele, Ann 
Dwindle. Dorothy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robert­
son. Mellie Rudy, Delores Prus. Sports Reporters—Edward 
Feigenbaum, Robert Steiger, Dick Eppler, James Gore. 
Cop' Reader—Paul Carmichael. Art Staff-—Joan Brech­
in. Nelson Kelley. Dick Stahl Photographers—Barbara Toia 
Don Hand. Myror Lewis. Roger Gregory. Dick Wolfe 
Features Staff—Andrew Stedry, Lin Smith, Judy Storch. 
Typist—Elayne Nord. Headline Staff—Van Anderson, Pat 
Naugle, Dan Byers Copy Banner—Fred Young. Make-Up 
Staff—Ellroy Wildnaber, Don Wildman. Advertising Staff— 
Ronald Greenwa d Vic Shiry, Mimi Stem. Joan Newman. 
Circulation Staff—Ralph Antonito.
Rfpie ented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD­
VERTISING Inc. College Publishers Representative. 420 
Madi'on Ave New York City Subscription *1.10 per year 
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., undei the Act of March 3. 
1*79 \ccepted for mailing at 'peclai rate of postage pro­
vided for in the Act of February 28 1925
Member of the Associated College Press.
R,P Uo•b 5NY&R U¦¦ R,5N­­• . * *
Editorial9
Why Fight It?
Even though this is supposed to be the season of job 
interviews when all seniors begin their period of rejoicing 
now that the end is in sight, all we can find around campus 
are a bunch of sagging faces and dejected spirits. It seems 
that a deep-seated fear of service in the armed forces has 
worked its way into the upperclassmen’s minds and has 
made many dread graduation, and others have given up hope 
for the future and assumed an ‘I don’t give a darn’ attitude.
We feel that we should point out at the outset that we 
are not the fondest admirers of the armed services, nor 
would any of us choose a military career over a civilian one. 
However, we do admire and respect the integrity and posi­
tion of the engineer in our modern society and do not wish 
to see any student of the profession ruin his chances for a 
career because he gave up during the final stages of his col­
lege preparation. Such a solution to an impending problem 
seems very immature for a man with a college education, 
but such opinions are being voiced from Skibo to Machinery 
hall now that summer and graduation seem just around the 
corner.
Many of our former fellow students have been beckoned 
by the good Uncle to give of their services before they finished 
college, and the stories told by many of them point out that a 
man does not put the brakfes on his education whei\. he enters 
the armed forces. The most obvious example here is the man 
who is inducted into a branch of the service which does the same 
work he was studying in school. But all men are not so for­
tunate as to get experience in their chosen field while serving 
under Old Glory, but they quickly find out that there is much 
more to learn in this complex world than the mathematical and 
physical principles behind atomic energy.
What then do these men learn? They learn at the very 
start that modern-day America is not composed entirely of 
the type of man (or woman) which they meet in college 
and that in order to get along one must be a human engineer 
—and this is a subject which is pretty hard to teach or learn 
behind ivy covered walls. Many of us have seen this proven 
right on campus when we compared the accomplishments 
of the students who were veterans and those who were 
rolled right out of their high school front door onto the Tech 
campus.
And then another question is asked of one who expounds 
on the above; “Why is this human engineering learned any 
better in the service than in industry?” Since the Army (or 
other service) offers a society with no escapes, one is forced 
to learn to live with all sorts of humans. There’s no chance 
to quit the job or move into a new neighborhood, one has 
to stick and fight it out to the end.
If things go as we’re told, and it’s all over in two years 
—as far as the individual is concerned—then why ruin the 
chances for a complete career by fretting over the loss of two 
years? And if it goes longer our whole lives would be af­
fected anyway, so what is there to gain by worrying? 
Why give up hitting the books and having interviews, for thr 
jobs will be there when the time for discharge rolls around?
INQUIRING REPORTER
Basketball Attendance
by Dick Wolfe
The question asked by the Inquiring Reporter 
this week was “What do you think can be done
to increase attendance at home basketball games?"
Sally VonBerg, freshman, secretarial studies— ^ 
“I feel if we have a few pep 
rallies and some advertisement 
for the games that there woulc 
be a larger attendance. As il 
stands now, we the students of 
Carnegie Tech, don’t even realize 
there are games being played 
By making a schedule of higher 
caliber teams, the student body 
will become more interested in 
the importance of the games. If
we show more spirit the team
will feel that they have something to work for 
and therefore put forth more effort.
“If there were more write ups about the in­
dividual players we would get to know them bet­
ter. Some people do not come to the games be­
cause they don’t Understand the game. Putting ar­
ticles in the Tartan about the rules and regulation! 
might increase the attendance.”
Peet Silvester, freshman, electrical engineer—4 I
“The obvious way of raising the 
attendance at home basketball 
?ames would be to make the 
average student more basketball 
conscious. There is only one way 
to accomplish this, namely by 
letting them know more about 
the varsity games.
“In my opinion, the real
trouble with Tech basketball lief 
' neither in the team nor the specJl 
tators. Rather, it is the poor
publicity that is keeping the students from the 
games. Never once have I seen a conspicuous an­
nouncement in the Tartan about a coming gam«^ 
nor heard WRCT plugging one. Even the bulle­
tin boards have not been used for this purpose.
It almost seems as if the time of the games were
a closely guarded secret. Most of us would prob­
ably show more interest in basketball if its ex­
istence were better publcized.- There are many 
public information channels at CIT, and a greater'l ' 
use of them would doubtlessly result in increased 
attendance at home basketball games.”
Jeannie Hazlin, freshman, home economics-*
“To increase the attendance at 
the basketball games, I think j 
there would be more advertise- j 
ments of the games. I never 
know when there is a basket­
ball game unless I read about it 
in the newspaper, and who can 
find time to read the papers 
around here? I don’t even know 
who plays on our team. Maybe 
I sound like an uninterested stu­
dent, but the spirit around this 
school is badly in need of some boosting. Why 
can’t the game be scheduled with better teams^ 
The Pitt-Tech game doesn’t even rouse much en­
thusiasm from the student body. If we played 
teams like LaSalle, Duquesne, and Seton Hall there 
would be a natural drawing aid to our home game*,- * 
Basketball should be built up instead of de-" 
emphasized.”
Cathy Gaetano, sophomore, secretarial studies—*
“Aside from the fact that a win­
ning team would draw larger 
crowds, I think that the student 
disinterest is the primary reason 
for the lack of attendance. The 
solution to this problem would 
be to the problem of school func­
tions. The main reason for th* 
lack of paid admissions is the 
fact that we do not have a win­
ning team. Also the general 
caliber of the teams we play ha* 
much effect on the attendance. No body wants te 
come to see Carnegie Tech play Steubenville,* Slip­
pery Rock, or such teams, but. they want to see 
well known teams at Tech. However, we can’t 
play such teams for a major part of the schedule 
because we haven’t got the winning material.” .
Any Questions?
As the year rolls on, it at times gets harder 
and harder for us to decide upon questions te 
ask Carnegie students through the Inquiring Re­
porter. After all, we are just, human too and some­
times run out of ideas.
So if there has been a question kicking around 
in the back of your mind that might make good 
meat for the Inquiring Reporter, how about letJ 
ting us know. Maybe it will be just the thing we 
-ere looking for but were not smart enough tO 
find it.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 24, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN Page I
American LeaguePlay 
Draws IM Spotlight
Beta’s, Beta Sigs, DU “A”, ATO “A”, 
Sekuds, Graduates Top Leagues
by Paul Smith
Seven games in the American league race headed last week’s 
IM basketball action. The league leading Beta team routed its third 
opponent, ASCE, 72-34. The Beta Sigs handed the Delts their first 
defeat, 44-38, to remain the only other unbeaten team in the league.
Bagdad AC continued to press* ---------------------------- -----
the leaders with a 53-35 victory
over Citcom. The Slugs evened 
their record, pulling out a 36-33 
win over the Phi Kap “B” team in 
the final quarter, after having lost 
to PiKA 51-44 earlier in the week. 
Other games saw Newman Club 
“B” win over ASCE 49-45 and Phi 
Kap “B” take the measureof Cit­
com 42-33.
Sekuds Take First Place 
In the National League, Coach 
Phillips’ Sekuds moved into a tie 
for first with an 83-13 romp over 
Sigma Nu “B” and a 33-32 victory 
over the Rinky Dinks. In their first 
outing, the Rockets, led by Hunt’s 
19 points, defeated DtT “B” 56-16. 
Sigma Nu “B” moved ahead of 
Theta Xi “A” with a 34-20 verdict. 
The Freshmen Flashes filled out 
the National league games with a 
57-51 win over the Hillbillies.
DU’s Move Along 
The powerful DU quintet, show­
ing a well-balanced attack, held 
top spot in the Federal league with 
a 55-37 victory over Sigma Nu 
“A.” The Arkens, dark horse in 
the league, posted their second 
victory, 57-15, over the Hightow­
ers. In their first game, TX “B” 
defeated ATO “B” 52-36. Sigma 
Nu “A” conquered the Sprockets 
50-33, and the Obelisks, with five 
men hitting double figures, rout­
ed the Sprockets 83-46 to wind up 
action in the Federal league.
Graduates Upset Phi Kaps 
The surprising Graduate team 
moved into the lead in the Repub­
lican league last week. After tak­
ing a forfeit from the Soph Pig- 
.skins, the Grads then upset the 
Phi Kap “A” team to gain the top 
position. Phi Kap had previously 
won their opener from the De­
mons, 41-33. In the other game in 
the Republican league, the Roop- 
sips dropped the Demons 34-31.
Grads 38
Schoemaker
Glass
1 Phi Kap “A”31
4|Ginetti .................?.21|Burke .................... 4
0¡Schriver ..............?.
2 Groesch ...............
2|Cekela .................
7|Szewc ...................2 ! Soufi ....................
Shenker ...............
38131
LEAGUE STANDINGS 
American League
VV
Beta Theta Pi “A”..-.',...................3Beta Sigma Rho ..............................3
Bagdad A. C.  ................... 3
Pi Kappa Alpha ...............................2
Delta Tan Delta .................................2
Slugs ...................................................2
Newman Club “B” ;.................1
Phi Kappa ‘ B” ............................1
Citcom ............................'.............. 1
ASCE .................................................o
Federal League
Delta Upsilon “A” .. ......................3
Arkens...................¦............................2
Theta Xi “B” . ...............................1
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................1
Obelisks .................................................1
Alpha Tau Omega “B” ..................1
Sigma Nu *'A” ..................................1
Hightowers ...........................................1
Sprockets .............................................0
National League
Alpha Tau Omega “A” ..................2Sekuds ......................................... 2
Rockets .... .......................................1
Delta Upsilon “B” ....................... .2
Rinky Dinks .........................................1
Freshman Flashes ............................1
Sigma Nu “B” ...................................1
Theta Xi “A” ....................................0
Hillbillies , ...................................... 0
Republican League
Graduates ..........................-...............3
Newman Club “A” .........................2
Kappa Sigma “A” ......................... 1
Roopsips .............    ...................... 2
Demons ................................................2
Phi Kappa "A” ..................................1
Tau Delta Phi ..................................0
Soph Pigskins . . ................... .0
Beta Theta Pi "B” ........................0
BOXSCORES
Sekuds 33I Rinky Dinks 32
Phillips ..............aiZiemanski .........». .10
McCartney .........2 j Guerrine .............. 0Hoover ..................16 Borza .................Bowdoin ............8 Gesauldi ..........0Pysh ......................21 Shellhammer .. .17
-f~l—
3332
DU “A” 551 Sigma Nu “A’ 37
O'Reilly ..............9 ¡Teta .................. . 4
Finn ......................13<Wood ................2 Bushey .............
Butler ...............2 Alexander ...... <)
Kennedy ............121 Norton .............. ,14
Branscombe ....
Wiederhorn ....
1 Veres ................. 1
5537
Beta Sig 44 I Delts 38
Siawkin ...............9> Moore .............
Smith .................3
.. 5
Haberman ..........IO1 Campani .......6
, 4
44138
7Nix -
Ow- 
GÔ THE 
WJBÏÏPG&
WAY
Fives? Are
MJGHASt-y ¿OW —
NiCGWVv •uC c luVAs KpWTs miVVaclGuVWus 
kWCvWVWu uVA SiaD kWCvWVWu *CT-
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-1800
Ping Pong
The unbeaten Obelisks took first 
place in the Republican league, 
with once beaten ATO runnerup. 
The TX’s took the Democratic 
league with the PiKA’s finishing 
second. The semi-final playoffs 
will pit TX with ATO, and the 
Obelisks with PiKA.
Play in the intramural basketball is highly competitive, and 
sometimes gets entangling. The hoop season is now in its fourth 
week.
Badminton Club At*I ion 
Heads W.A.A. Activity
The Badminton club met last 
Wednesday and got well under­
way with a rigorous session that 
resulted in aching but well ex­
ercised muscles. It is still not too 
late to join, and those needing ex­
ercise can not find a better way 
to get in trim, and at same 
time, enjoy it.
The basketball club got off to u 
good start last Monday. No cuiside 
games have been schedu’ed a* 
yet. Rigorous drill, however, t& 
the keynote of the present meet­
ings. —„
After the success of the pre- 
Christmas receital, the Modern 
Dance club has decided to give 
one this spring sometime after 
I Easter.
Matmen Downed By 
Indiana Teachers
Last Wednesday Carnegie’s 
wrestling team avenged an earlier 
loss at the hands of Indiana with 
a “moral victory,” losing 23-8.
This was only half the story, 
however, with the Tartans hit 
hard by injuries and being forced 
to forfeit two bouts, thus losing 
ten points, the actual score being 
13-8. Missing from the Tech line­
up were Captain Bowser, due to a 
knee injury, Tom Dunckers, with 
a leg injury, and vie Valias with 
a bad elbow.
The highlights of the match 
were Tech’s Clyde Stahle pinning 
Jones in 1:58 of the second period, 
for the second time this year, his 
earlier pin resulting in the only 
victory in the Plaid’s previous 25- 
5 lo£g~ to Indiana. In one of the 
most exciting matches ever wit­
nessed in the Skibo gym, Carne­
gie’s Jack Delbrook decisioned In­
diana’s veteran Captain fcugine, 
6-3.
The results of the other bouts, 
all won by Indiana, were:
Letham pinning Heitzanrater in 
0.27 of the second period while 
leading 6-2.
McClemens decisioning Brus- 
sallis 6-0.
Tech’s Ed Hromanik losing to 
Croft on a fall at 1.34 of the first 
period.
Johnny Christainson, spotting
opponent 10 pounds in an exehibi- 
tion match, losing to Rafferty 2-0.
The Tech squad, under the guid­
ance of Coach Cecil Alexander, is 
constantly improving with experi­
ence and is looking forward to a 
bright future. Our next match is 
with Shadyside Academy.
Intramural Wrestling 
Summary
Team scores—5 points for first 
place, 3 for second, and one for 
third.
Heavyweight — first — Clyde 
Stahle, Emanon, second — Roger 
Cunningham, Emanon.
Third—Howard Schindler, Em­
anon.
177 lbs.—1st,—Bob Heitzenrater, 
Emanon.
Straight Call P^^l
In. the call pool semi-finals, the 
Obelisks, winners in the Cve ball 
league defeated Sigma N 35-22, 
35-11, while the Ei^ht ball league 
leaders, SAE Purple iemained un- 
defeateo by edging out KS 35-26, 
35-29.
167 lbs. — 1st — Tom Duncker*, 
SAE, second — Johnny Christian­
son, Emanon.
157—1st—Jack Delbrook, SAS, 
second — Eamie Schoenfeld, BTP, 
third—Larry Mersel, BSR,
147—1st—Bill Brussallis. Eman­
on, second—Bill Kernahan, BTP, 
third—Mark Diniaco KS.
137—1st—Vic Valias, BTP.
127—1st—Ed Hromanik, Eman­
on.
121—1st—Duane WakW, BTP.
117—1st—Frank Sita, Emanon.
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
e»Bt»J goU5F NRoPPR 
NgpiVlic rtJE»B
LET’S GO TO
ISALYS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
S714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR GRADUATE 
ENGINEERS WITH GOODYEAR
Representatives of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and the Good­
year Atomic Energy Corporation will be on your campus to interview Sen­
iors with B.S. and advanced degrees in the following fields of technical 
study:
. g,P•5gU¦ PYF5YPPo5YF
. •Pg,UY5gU¦ PYF5YPPo5YF
. P¦PgRo5gU¦ PYF5YPPo5YF
. 5Y!INRo5U¦ PYF5YPPo5YF
. g5k5¦ PYF5YPPo5YF
. g,P•5NRob
Opportunities for graduates with the above degrees now exist in the fol­
lowing fields:
. m¦UYR PYF5YPPo5YF
. moK!IgR5KY !PkP¦Km•PYR
. moKgPNN !PkP¦Km•PYR
i oPNPUog, 
i •Ug,5YP !PN5FY 
. _UgRKob •UYUFP•PYR
. RPg,Y5gU¦ NU¦PN
Contact Your Student Placement Office Now 
For Your Interview With The Goodyear Representative 
On March 9, 10, 11
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBRER CO 
- GOODYEAR ATOMIC CORP.

---------------------------------------------------

Fag:« 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 24, 195S
swimmers ueiena i me
Pictured above are six of Carnegie’s swimming mainstays who 
will be called up to help Tech defend its Penn-Ohio championship. 
They are Dan Guz, Rick McCorkle, Bill Aiken, Bob Coulter, Bob 
Wedell and Dick Kramer.
Drop Three In A Row
The stumbling Tartan basketeers, completing one of their dismal 
seasons in the present era, lost all three games last week to bring 
their present record to five won and 13 lost. Both Youngstown and 
Allegheny eked out unimpressive victories over the Scots while the 
Panthers from across the way*----------------------------------------------------
Basketball Profile
Big Ed Pottmeyer 
Steadies Tartan 
Basketball Squad
by Jim Gore
Watching Carnegie Tech’s bas­
ketball team, one begins to see 
that the Plaid squad is formed 
around a group of good solid bas­
keteers rather than a few out­
standing as is the case with many 
other teams.
Among these reliable but non­
headline making players is Ed 
Pottmeyer, senior center. A gradu­
ate of Central Catholic high, Ed’s 
first experiece in organized bas­
ketball came in his sophomore 
year at high school. During the 
next couple of years, Ed did al­
right in the Central high basket­
ball wars, and sparked his squad 
to victory during the AA Divi­
sion State championship.
At Tech, Ed not only earned a 
berth on the freshmen squad but 
also played some varsity ball that 
year and in his sophomore year.
He skipped basketball during 
his junior year and it wasn’t until 
the third game of the present cam­
paign that Ed again donned the 
Tartan basketball colors and re­
turned to see floor action. Ever 
since the Bethany contest, he has 
played a big part in the life of the 
1952-1953 squad. Although not the 
top scorer he has had a good share 
of the point-getting honors and 
shows real skill and ability on the 
hardwood.
Big Ed is in his last semester in 
the mechanical engineering de­
partment.
oPYR U RbmPSo5RPo
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
RbmPSo5RPoN
AH Kind* b Low as
American Typewriter Co. 
CO. 1-1019rr STTA NDO
Convenient Parking
romped home 69-49. Tom Craig, 
as usual, stood out even in defeat, 
racking up a total of 59 points in 
the three tilts.
Pittsburgh 69, Tech 49 
In the return of a home and 
home series the Tartans dropped 
a 69-49 decision to the Pitt Pan­
thers. The Pitt victory marked the 
first time in years that Pitt has 
swept the two game series. Tom 
Craig and Bill Dosey led the losers, 
accounting for 12 points apiece.
Youngstown 69, Tech 67 
In one of the closest contests of 
the season in which the Tech Tar­
tans have participated, the Pen­
guins from Youngstown Univer­
sity eked out a narrow 69-67 tri­
umph. The Plaid, who were trying 
to start a new winning streak, 
were in the game all the way. A 
final-second foul call gave the op­
position its insurance point and 
the Tartans could not hoop the 
tying markers before the whistle.
High point man for the visiting 
Tech squad was Tom Craig who
dropped the sphere through the 
ring for a total of 25 points. Bill 
Dosey who has shown real scoring 
power in the last couple of weeks 
was next in line with 16 while 
Ralph Mocker dumped in 10.
Allegheny 73, Tech 68
For the second time in two days 
a last quarter rally by the Tartans 
fell a bit short with a result that 
the Allegheny quintet emerged 
victor by a 73-68 count.
Tom Craig paced the Scots with 
22 points with Dosey and Mocker 
potting 14 and 10 respectively. For 
Allegheny Bud Mclndo was top 
man dropping 21 points through 
the ring.
For Your Next Fraternity or 
Sorority Affair
THE PINES
Good Food—Cocktail Lounge 
Perry HighwayRoute 19 near West View
WE 1-2131 for Inquiries
Collegians Head-Over-Heels 
About Comfortable Arrow Shorts
9 N,5oRN . R5PN . IY!PoSPUo . ,UY!/Pog,5P_N » NmKoRN N,5oRN
ARROW
Two Meets Face Unbeaten Swimmers
Attention June Graduates
GOODYEAR AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
INTERVIEWING MARCH 9,10,11,1953
Representatives of Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, Akron, Ohio will be 
on your campus to interview seniors and graduate students in the follow­
ing study:
• MECHANICAL
• INDUSTRIAI.
• ELECTRONICS
for opportunities in
• AERONAUTICAL
• METALLURGICAL
• ENGINEERING
• PHYSICS
• ELECTRICAL
• CIVIL
• MATHEMATICS
Design—Complete lighter and heavier- 
than-aircraft and components, air­
frames, power plant installations; con­
trols: hydraulics: electroni systems: fuel cells, canopies, wheel and brakes, etc.
Development—Missille, airship, jet aircraft 
and helicopter projects; electrical and 
electronic systems, servomechanisms, 
fiber resin laminates and many other 
projects having both military and non military applications.
Plant Engineering—Light heat power ap­
plication including machine design.
Production Engineering—All phases metal 
fabrication manufacture.
Stress and Weight Analysis.
Tool Planning including Tools, Dies, Jigs, 
and fixtures.
Apply NOW for Interviews at Your Placement Office
GOODYEAR AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
U/oKY r5O K,5K
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
ROY YERNER BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS. INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
“Any way you look at it, Arrow shorts are tops for com­
fort,” collegians say. Special tailoring features (such as 
no chafing center seam) assure free and ea£y comfort in 
any position. Wide selection of styles, fabrics and colors 
now available at all Arrow dealers.
Scots Must Whip 
Grove City, Fenn 
For Perfect Slate
Faltering Hoopsters
This afternoon at four o’clock 
in the Tech pool, Carnegie’s unde­
feated swimming team will seek 
revenge on Grove City for the de­
feat handed them last' year in the 
visitors 12^ yard pool. Saturday 
the Tech mermen will swim their 
last dual meet of the season 
against i’enn college of Cleveland. 
It is also to be held in the Tech 
pool.
Coach Claud Scofield can well 
expect his team to finish unde­
feated. Last Wednesday the Tar­
tans swept eight out of nine first 
places to trounce W&J 50-25. 
Earlier in the season the Presi­
dents defeated Grove City.
Bob Waddell set a new W&J 
pool record of 1:22.0 in the 120 
yard individual medley, while Bob 
Coulter set a 200 yard backstroke 
record of 2:32.4. Dick Kramer won 
the 220 yard free style, Guz the 50 
yard dash, and Aiken the 200 yard 
breaststroke to give Tech other 
Individual firsts. Tech also won 
both relays, dropping first place in 
•nly the 440 yard freestyle.
gunDuWV /Cu-iC

---------------------------------------------------

Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ........................................................................................ Victor Sabol
Reporters.......... Anna Mae Legosh, Kathy Galligan, Charles Keller,
Ray Schwalm
Phi Nil Fraternity Has Served 
CIT Night Students Since 1916
Of the three Evening School Fraternities at CIT, Phi Nu is the 
oldest. It was founded on the Evening School Campus in 1916 as a 
social fraternity, and called "Klanicht,” meaning “Night Clan.” In 
1921 the name was changed to Phi Nu Fraternity. The objectives 
of the fraternity remain the same.
These are: To promote sociabili-^——---------------------------------------------
ty and good fellowship among 
evening students by providing op­
portunities for them to meet social­
ly both on and off the campus, and 
to furnished a goal that students 
who participate in the general so
cial activities at Carnegie would mer months.
on the campus an important part 
of their college life.
Phi Nu holds at least one social 
event every month during the 
school year, and in addition holds 
several events during the sum-
strive to reach, and in thus fur­
nishing, stimulate such participa­
tion.
The founders realizing that if 
evening students were to continue 
through the many years necessary 
to complete a course of education, 
they should have some interest in 
Tech other than that supplied by 
the subjects they study, and active 
participation in the social part of 
campus, life would supply that in­
terest; the founders also felt that 
evening students should be en­
couraged to make social activities
Phi Gamma Pi 
Entertains Women 
Evening Students
Women evening students at­
tended a tea sponsored by Phi 
Gmma Pi on February 15. The 
purpose of the tea was to acquaint 
the students with the Sorority’s 
activities and principles.
Following the distribution of 
literture concerning the 1952-53 
activities and an explanation of 
the ideals of the sorority, the Phi 
Gamma Pi Chorus sang “Where 
’ere You Walk” and “The Halls 
of Ivy.” Entertainment included 
a piano solo, “I Heard a Forest 
Praying,” by Mary Alice Peterson 
and Lydia Liston sang “Because.”
Dorothy Burt and Jean Woods 
were in charge of food and dec­
orations.
The easiest-writing 
portable ever built!
*oTcul mTCDu7li pTlAa Dpd T**WwWul STClA13 
mTCDu7li NniiA gpu-nWT-pln ua apT4V 
WV Dpi wMCCiVD STClA1» ul-uVuwO
See ft Here e. •
Terms as low as SJ.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320
— SUPPLIES — 
REPAIRS - RENTALS
For any further information 
concerning Phi Nu, address all 
inquiries to Phi Nu Fraternity, 
c/o Box 256, CIT.
Letter To
The Editor9
What Became
Of Old AH 132 
Study Room?
What has become of the study 
room which was always avail­
able at 132AH? When the libraries 
close at 8:45 p.m., those students 
desiring a place to do some quiet 
concentrating on the books are 
left out in the cold, so to speak.
Quite a number of students are 
over-taxing their dim eyesight 
trying to absorb a few extra bits 
of knowledge under the feeble 
lights near the benches at the 
entrance to Administration Hall.
We realize the cost of keeping 
Tech’s doors open has gone up 
considerably, but isn’t it driving 
good cash customers away by 
keeping the doors all locked? Can 
we look forward to the reopening 
of Room 132AH or a suitable sub- 
stitue soon?
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account end Get 
TOUB rCU DISCOUNTOAKLAND HARDWARE
Eh»e _Ko?PN NRO
Editor's Note
Student Handbooks 
Present Philosophy
This is the first in a series of 
articles taken from handbooks of 
the years gone by.
DEFEAT 
No one is beat till he quits
No one is through till he stops, 
No matter how hard failure hits, 
No matter how often he drops,
A fellow’s not down till he lies 
In the dust and refuses to rise. 
Fate can slam him and bang him 
around,
And batter his frame till he’s 
sore,
But she never can say that he’s 
downed
While he bobs upserenely for 
9 more.
A fellow’s not dead till he dies, 
Nor beat till no longer he tries. 
(Evening Student Handbook 
1927-28)
BE WHAT YOU ARE
If you can’t be the leader whe*» 
ever you go,
Don’t sulk and groan and cry;
For there’s big work to do and 
there’s lesser to do 
No matter how low or how high.
It isn’t by size that you win or 
you lose 
No matter how large or how 
small;
So don’t think you’re better thaa 
anyone else,
Or you’re liable to stumble and 
fall.
We can’t all be rich; some hav« 
got to be poor,
So whichever, by chance you b«
Just start right off and do your 
best,
And in time you will gain 
Victory.
(Evening Student Handbook 
1930-31)
Your I.D. CARD Means1.5% off
TIME SHOP
On
• Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts
• Watches • Jewelry
• Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
?sC73O•3U*wKN 
y.C.L-A*
9 Fo r. Co.
Nothing-no. nothing-beats better taste
and LUCKIES 
TASTE BETTER!
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment. 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a 
cigarette.
Luckies taste better—cleaner, fresher, smoother!
Why? Luckies are made better to taste better. And, 
what’s more, Luckies are made of fine tobacco. 
L. S./M. F.T.—Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want most in ajcigarette ... 
for better taste—for the cleaner, fresher, smoother 
taste of Lucky Strike ...
Be Mappy-GO LUCKY!
cky
University v
gK¦¦PFP NRI!PYRN moP_Po ¦Ig/5PN 
5Y YUR5KYtS5!P NIokPb 5
Nation-wide survey based on actual student in­
terviews in 80 leading colleges reveals more 
smokers prefer Luckies than any other cigarette 
by a wide margin. No. 1 reason—Luckies’ better 
taste. Survey also shows Lucky Strike gained 
far more smokers in these colleges than the na­
tion’s two other principal brands combined.
PRODUCT OF i//bL j&rVVUiiXMl iJa^AjeeO-^^rryKl^' AMERICA’S LEADINGMANUFACTURER OF CIGAEETTI
Tuesday, February 24, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page f

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 24, 1953
she took me in tow, and we pro­
ceeded back to the fraternity 
house.
The evening was spent quite en- 
joyably. We sang, we danced, we 
partook of stimulating refresh­
ments ad absurdum, and we ran 
into multitudes of other persons 
who did not believe they had met
Carnegie, Each one provides 
$1,500 for an unmarried student,
tremendous throng of persons, Suddenly there was a noise and 
both male and' female, mostly in a rush toward the door. The girls 
pairs, all of which were for some were gone, the fraternity men 
reason reluctant to part company, started back to their respective 
I was also confused by the fact houses, and I to McBoss hall, 
that although the crowd was meditating on the wondrous things 
large, it was not so large as to which had come to pass that eve- 
make necessary the close quarters ning, and wondering how my head 
into which many of the couples would feel in the morning.
positions in industry and goven< 
ment.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched lo Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Parties click when the 
mood is right. With 
enough Coke on hand 
you can set the scene 
for a gay session . • • 
anytime.
SHIKDY was all wee Ail the flappers ducked when they spied him. 
The wave in his hair disappeared. Then he floated a loan of 29< 
for some Wildroot Cream-Oil, America's favorite hair tonic. Con­
tains soothing Lanolin. Non-alcholic. Relieves annoying dryness. 
Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Grooms the hair. Helps you pass 
the Finger-Nail Test. Now he’s back on the ball, a flippant lover 
who flappergasts all the girls with his good looking hair. So 
waddle you waiting floe? Get in the swim with Wildroot Cream- 
Oil. Buy it at any toilet goods counter, and ask for it at your 
barber’s. Remember, you mustache fur Wildroot Cream-Oil. Then 
the girls will put their seal of approval on you.
. KRR¦P! IY!Po UIR,Ko5Rb Km R•* gKgUtgK¦U gK•mUYb ?b
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., PITTSBURGH, PA.
.‘gT0i" WD u C3’WdDdCiA DCTAOt4uC0O fffffffffffff© rJ5Es R,P gKgUtgK¦U gK•mUYb
* of 151 So. Harris Hill Rel., Williamsville, N. Y. 
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
( Only time will tell how good ¦'a tyro photographer will be! And only time will tell about a cigarette Tate your time...__ r'W THIS 
rtheB ESTTF
BE A GREAT PHOTOGRAPHER. 
-.SOMEDAY/ ,
HOW CAN THE/TEO­
SO SOON? LEAVE LB 
AWAIT DEVELOPMENTSWHAT A SHUTTER. BUS» 
EVERY ONE , CAME OUT. JN 
FOCUS, TOON
¦for 30 days
-for MILDNESS 
and FLAVOR 1
R,PoP •INR ?P U oPUNKY S,b Camel 
is America’s most popular cigarette- 
leading all other brands by billions! 
Camels have the^iwo things smokers 
want most—rich, full flavor and cool, 
cool mildness...pack after pack! Try 
Camels for 30 days and see how mild, 
how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoy­
able they are as your steady smoke![ he'll make
AFORTUNE TAKING LITTLE SHOTS OF 
. BIG SHOTS/J
R,UY UYb KR,Po 
g5FUoPRRPN
DuPont FellowshipJohn—
[Continued from page 3] 
thing like the Bastille. It is equip­
ped with a large spacious lounge 
and some 400 odd women of as­
sorted shapes and sizes.
I called for my date, a fair­
haired girl named Irene Zilch. 
She arrived presently and sign­
ed the necessary papers to get 
out of the place until 1:30 the 
next morning. Then, wrapping 
her rabbit fur piece about her,
me yet, but all of whom seemed 
quite familiar (that is to say well 
acquainted) with my date.
Saturday Goes
I was happy to learn that wom­
en have just as many, if not more, 
admirable traits as I hoped they 
would on first noticing the species , 
some few months ago. I resolved 
to investigate further at a future 
date (or on a future date if you 
prefer).
But the evening was over all 
too soon. I delivered Irene back 
to the Gardens.' There I saw a
Wives
There will be a meeting of 
the Tech Wives club a week 
from today, Tuesday, March
3, at 8:00 in the Union. The 
program will feature several 
motion pictures. The main one 
will be “And Then There 
Were Four” which is narrated 
by James Stewart.
squeezed themselves (and each 
other).
The DuPont company has an­
nounced the renewal of three 
post-graduate fellowships at Car­
negie Tech. They are the same as 
the awards for the current year. 
DuPont has authorized a fund of 
about $600,000 to carry on its full 
program of aid to education in 
universities and colleges across 
the country.
One fellowship each has been 
given in chemistry, chemical en­
gineering, and metallurgy here at
or $2,100 for a married man. The 
amount of $1,200 is paid to the 
school to support his work, and 
payment of tuition and fees.
The university selects the per­
sons who will receive the fellow­
ships and the research work to 
be undertaken. Support is pro­
vided for pre-doctoral training of 
students and is intended to help 
maintain the flow of technically 
trained men and women into 
teaching and research work at 
universities and into technical
