VOL. 42—No. 5 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948
Homecoming Schedule
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15
9:00 a. m.—Alumni Registration......................................Union
3:00 p. m.—Reception and Tea ........................................Union
6:00 p. m.—Class Reunion Dinners .........................................................
8:00 p. m.—Pep Rally .........................................................................Bowl
9:00 p. m.—Open House .......................................................Fraternities
9:30 p. m.—Dance, Walt Harper...........................................Gymnasium
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16
9:00 a. m.—Alumni Registration.....................................Union
9:30 a. m.—Annual Meeting of Alumni Council ------Union
10:00 a. m.—Coronation of Freshman Queen......................................Cut
10:30 a. m.—Sophomore—Freshman Men’s Contests .. Cut
12:00 Noon—Homecoming Luncheon..................................Skibo
2:00 p. m.—Band Parade ...................................................Forbes Street
2:30 p. m.—Football (Same .................................................Forbes Field
6:00 p. m.—Class Reunion Dinners...........................................................
*:00 p. nt.—Open House .........................................................Fraternities
:00 p. m.—Dance, Gene Krupa .........................................Gymnasium
/Ji
The Freshman Class Presents - -
Carnegie’s Kiltie band will make 
an appearance in a parade down 
Forbes street to the football field 
preceding the game with Franklin 
and Marshall on Saturday. Spe­
cial attention has been given t« 
some new formations which the 
band will preseht during its half- 
[Continued on page 3]
Girls’ Dorm To 
Accept Guests
Homecoming Visitors,
Dates May Use MG
Pulchritudinous pretties running for Freshman Queen are, left 
to right: Mildred Thompson, Nancy Yeager, Nancy Davis, Nancy 
Golden, Virginia McGuire, Pat Dittler, Evalyn Anderson.• • * • •
Freshman Queen Coronation 
To Be Held Saturday Morning ~
Ceremony Will Climax Week Of Campaigning; 
Queen And Court Will Preside Over Game
Hear ye, hear ye, loyal subjects! Her highness the Freshman 
Homecoming Queen will be crowned Saturday morning at 10 on the 
Cut, or, if rain prevails, in the Little Theatre of Fine Arts
Preceded by a strenuous few days of campaigning by all the
the*candidates, the election of 
Queen was held yesterday. How­
ever her identity will be kept se­
cret until the coronation on Satur­
day.
Following the coronation, by 
Pat Johnston, Freshman Queen 
two years ago, the newly crowned 
Queen will reign over the fresh- 
man-sophomore contest on the 
Cut at 10:30. The day’s festivities 
will begin with a show by the 
Kiltie pipers at 9:30.
In the afternon the Queen, at­
tended by her two Maids of Hon­
or and her Court will preside over 
the football game with Franklin 
and Marshall from her throne in 
the student section of the grand­
stand.
Traditions 
Re-Examination 
Set For Tomorrow
Freshman who failed the Tra­
ditions Exam last week, or who 
failed to take it, will be given a second opportunity tomorrow aft­
ernoon to pass the test. Scimitars and Cwens will again administer 
the test, in EH 209.
Prior to tomorrow afternoon all 
freshmen who must take the re­
exam will have been notified. Just 
as last week, no freshman will 
be admitted to the test room un 
less he is wearing his dink.Information sheets containing 
the material covered by the exam 
are still available in the office of 
the Dean of Men, IH 144-C.
Colorful Homecoming Promised 
For Both Students and Alumni
Students To Have 
A Busy Weekend 
With No Classes
Following a last minute Witch 
in plans which has made 
Homecoming Saturday dance an 
informal rather than a semi- 
formal dance, preparations for 
fun packed weekend are all but 
completed.
Slipsticks and T-squares, 
flats and music racks will be gotten after classes Friday by stu­
dents eager to get an early start 
in the festivities.
First of the entertaining fea­
tures is the pep rally to be held 
in the Tartan bowl Friday even­
ing. Following the rally, Walt Har­
per’s orchestra will play for stu­
dents at an informal dance in the 
gym until 1:00 a. m.
At the same time, fraternities 
will hold open house in the an­nual Homecoming tradition. Stu­
dents following the custom of vis 
iting as many as possible of the 
houses will find a variety of col­
orful displays and decorations 
completed for judgment in the in­terfraternity competition. This 
year some of the men’s dormitor­
ies also plan to enter the compe­
tition. Judging of displays by a 
faculty committee vjill occur both 
Friday night and Saturday mom 
ing.
Saturday’s events will start in 
the morning with an exhibition of 
prowess in a contest between 
freshman and sophomore men, Highlighting the activities, which 
will be held on the cut will be
Gene Krupa, whose band will play for dancing in the gymna­
sium on Saturday night.
the coronation of a Freshman 
Queen.
Before the game between Car­
negie and Franklin and Marshall, 
the Kiltie band will parade down Forbes street to the field. Between 
halves the band will present its 
colorful performance.Gene Krupa’s band, playing 
Saturday night in the gym, will 
climax the Homecoming celebra^ 
tion. Those attending the dance 
will also witness the presentation 
of the Homecoming display award 
to the winning fraternity or dorm­itory.
The 3:00 a. m. signouts for dorm 
women will help the evening to 
end in a party spirit. Citcom and 
Men’s dorm council, as well as 
the fraternities, are planning 
after-dance breakfasts as a final 
toast to their members and alumni.
[Continued on page 3.]
Kilties Go for Cloth;
Alumni Return 
For Two Days Of 
Memories, Fun
As complete and spectacular a 
Homecoming as has graced the 
Carnegie Tech campus in many 
years will be offered to all the 
alumni, old and new, who attend 
the activities that fill the week­
end of October 15 and 16.
For weeks and months under­
graduates have been working to 
make sure that the least details 
are not overlooked in making this 
a Homecoming that all alumni 
will long remember.
In addition to the traditional 
pep rally, football game, and open 
house parties shared by students 
and alumni alike, two informal 
dances and a variety of additional 
events will highlight the two-day 
holiday.
Tickets are still available to 
alumni who plan to attend the 
Saturday night dance, featuring 
Gene Krupa and his orchestra, as 
well as the Friday night dance at 
which Walt Harper and his orches­
tra will play. Tickets to the 
dances will be available at the 
door.
Special events will include the 
coronation of a Freshman Queen 
and a contest between freshmen 
and sophomore men to be held 
Saturday morning on the cut. 
Breakfasts for both fraternity and 
non-fraternity alumni will be 
held following the Saturday dance.
Alumni will be especially inter­
ested in the annual Homecoming 
displays sprouted by the various 
fraternity houses and men’s dor­
mitories in competition for the 
plaque to be awarded during the 
Gene Krupa dance.
Special arrangements for hous­
ing transient women guests in 
Morewood Gardens over the 
Homecoming weekend have been 
completed. Students wishing to 
avail their guests of these facili­
ties must reserve space in advance 
by calling Mrs. Dorothy Zimmer­
man, head of the dormitory, at 
SC. 9147.
Guests must follow the regular 
dormitory procedure of signing out 
and must be in at the same time 
as student residents. Charge for 
the room accomodation will be 
$2.00 per night in advance.
Kilties pictured at Niagara Falls: left to right: Charles Koester, 
Huot Fisher, William Schaefer, Dean Streator, Bill Benswanger. Bill 
Waller was the photographer.
• # • •
Some of the boys in the Kiltie Band took a long trip last week­
end that was rather frustrating.
Director Schaefer and the five band members made a hurried 
trip to Toronto to purchase a total*
of 90 yards of imported plaid ma­
terial at $5.75 per yard.
Since customs regulations re­
quire that to bring in duty-free 
an amount of goods as large as 
their “loot,” they would have to 
[Continued on page 3.]

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948
Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-In-Chief ................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ........................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ....................................................... Burton L. Epstein
Personnel Manager ...................................................... Jay H. Johnson
News Editor—Robert Kubiak, Features Editor—Gerald E. Peck, Chief Copy Editor—Thomas P. Murray, Sports Editor —Paul Offermann, Makeup Editor—Robert Cloud, Art Editor ¦—Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising Manager—Arthur G. Zuch, 
Circulation Manager—Lewis S. Sternberg.Copy Editor—Pat Petrick, Headline Editor—Myra-Jane Bar­ry. Proof Editor—John Braun, Asst. Business Manager—Her­bert Stone, Asst. Advertising Manager—Malcolm B. Sama- kow. Chief Reporters—John K. Fockler, William Johns, Ben- nard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Ruby Weisberg, Chief 
Sports Reporter—Bill Dorn, Chief Photographer—William D. 
Benswanger.Copy Staff—Mary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman. 
Features Staff—A. Starke Dischell.Reporters—Jo Crisanti, Frances Hamborsky, Bea Patterson, 
Angela Pollis.Cub Reporters—Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Bee Potter,
Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports SUIT—Robert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lith- 
gow, Frederick Lunt.Photography Staff—Richard Deininger.Business Staff—Morty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Gold- 
enfeld, Dave Steiner, Bob Powers, Mitch Bachon.Typists—Elizabeth Asche, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER­TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.907 at the
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1878. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro­
vided io. in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo­
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
It’s For Them
The fervent hope on the lips of everyone 
concerned with the success of the many events 
planned for this Homecoming weekend is that 
there will be established the tradition of a real 
Homecoming to remember. And if all the work 
that has been done is properly rewarded, they 
will not have failed.
How this present plan for making the 
event meaningful to a greater number of alum­
ni and undergraduates came into existence has 
been told too many times to bear repeating 
here.
But we would like to emphasize the fact 
that, no matter how much the student body 
may enjoy themselves, the weekend is design­
ed primarily for the pleasure and edification 
of alumni, and that every student should take 
it upon himself, in whatever great or small 
way he is able, to contribute in some way to 
the alumni enjoyment of the occasion. A pleas­
ant “Hello” is a good starter.
Every student, whether or not he is active­
ly engaged in the preparatory work, can aid 
in making the weekend the kind of .success 
it must be if it is to be repeated in the future. 
He can make a real contribution by attending 
all the functions that have been planned, and 
by liberally partaking of the spirit and at­
mosphere of the occasion.
However, it must be remembered at the 
same time that the weekend is dedicated to 
the alumni and that undergraduates should 
not spoil their enjoyment by any rambunc­
tious actions.
If every student will try to make this 
Homecoming the kind he would like to return 
to himself in a few years it will be forever 
remembered as the first of the reall3T great 
Carnegie Tech Homecomings.
Hurray !
Sororities Choose 
New Pledge Classes
By the conclusion of rushing season, the seven 
sororities on campus increased their number by 
the addition of 76 pledges. Each sorority held one 
tea and one party at which the rushees were in­
troduced to active members.
After the sorority bids were given and accept­
ed, the following results were tabulated:
Chi Omega pledges number 17 including: Eliz­
abeth Harley, Ruth Paulus, Shirley Gill, Virginia 
Gannon, Susie White. Pepper Weise, June Roth, 
Beverly Evans, Anita Ranallo, Nancy Will, Joan 
Penn, Jean Reed, Jean Rupp, Patricia Petrick, El­
vira Loreski, Ruth Gunning, and Joyce Ertell.
Delta Delta Delta has pledged 16 women: Mar­
ion Rudd, Marilyn Frykdahl, Nancy Anderson, 
Phyllis Clayton, Eleanor Gilmore, Lois Hibbard, 
Lois Hogsett, Helene Holzworth, Ruth Jones, Beryl 
Law, Eleanor Lloyd, Patficia Potter, Carol Roden, 
Louise Thayer, Anita Harkin, and Nancy Cain.
Fifteen women have pledged to Kappa Kappa 
Gamma: Laura Ehni, Katie Rudy, Virginia Vivirito, 
Shirley Dixon, Barbara Hicks, Una Mechling, Wini­
fred Sample, Patricia Snedden, Mary Rita Gross- 
wege, Evalyn Kuzma, Nancy Pardue, Clementine 
Rushnit, Joan Daubenspeck, Jane Conner, and Ve­
ra Gillespie.
Kappa Alpha Theta has, a total of 13 pledges: 
Susan Menger, Margaret Christy, Wilma Dixon, 
Pauline Schofield, Diane McFarland, Margaret 
Aubrey, Bunny Berg, Elizabeth Shirey, Marty 
Hadsell, Jane Ehrman, Mary Jo Carraher, Ruth 
Jordan, and Mary Turner.
The 8 pledged to Delta Gamma are: Irene Price, 
Janet Slye, Margaret Duff, Marilyn Langford, Mar­
garet Werner, Gerry Barontini, Mary Lee Demp­
sey, and Dorothy Schell.
Alpha Epsilon Phi has 5 new pledges: Shirley 
Levin, Janice Seiner, Florence Kimball, Betty Abel- 
son, and Marjorie Weinsweig.
Two women have pledged Sigma Kappa: Ja­
net Hoerger, and Eleanor Bruce.
We’re Glad To See You Back
Traditions Exams Are Finished; 
Freshmen Now Part Of CIT
Traditions are over. Dinks can be thrown away and tired faces 
can relax from the perpetual smiles with which freshmen have been 
greeting upperclassmen. ?-----------------------------------
Fine Arts Freshmen Will 
Enjoy Special Afternoon
Arrangements are being completed for the first 
freshman afternoon in the College of Fine Arts.
The program, which is tentatively set for Oc­
tober 27, will begin with an assembly in the Little 
Theatre at 1:30 p. m. The freshmen will then be 
taken on a tour throughout the building to ac­
quaint them with each department of the school. 
It is planned that the departmental programs will 
be explained during the course of the tour, thus 
giving a better undertaking of all five depart­
ments. The afternoon program will be completed 
in the Exhibition room, where a buffet meal will 
be available.
Freshman afternoon is a further effort of the 
Arts Night committee to acquaint art students with 
contemporary ideas, problems, and accomplishments 
in the artistic field.
No longer must the senior 
fence or the walk along Engi­
neering hall be hallowed only by 
the presence of beloved sopho­
mores, juniors and seniors.
As laughing residents of “B” 
tower tramp across the cut sing­
ing “Fight for the Glory of Car­
negie” and “Dear Old Tech,” their 
emancipated brothers from frater-
nity pledge classes and freshman 
rooms in the barracks will join 
hands to chorus with “Skibo” and 
the “Alma Mater.”
Members of the class of 1952, 
having now officially become a 
part of the spirit of Carnegie Tech, 
will be taking their place in cam­
pus social life and extracurricular 
activities.
Whatever the merits of or the objections 
Council’s decision on affiliation with 
NSA, its method of reaching this conclusion 
stands to be commended.
Too often in the past the reasoning behind 
Council’s action has been obscure if not down- 
right invisible. The application of what some 
might call the “engineering attitude” in this 
case—asking questions, discovering the an­
swers, and applying those facts to the exist­
ing situation—is certainly an improvement 
over the too often utilized criterion of “Does 
it sound good!” or “Has it been done be­
fore !"
Let us hope that Council will frequently 
the same type of reasoning in the fu-
Letter To The Editor
Student Asks Memorial 
To Honor Dr. Work
Editor, the Tartan:
¿very great institution owes its glory to the 
collective efforts of some distinguished individuals. 
Certainly one of the finest gentlemen to contrib­
ute to the exaltation of Carnegie Tech was Dr. 
William R. Work, whose passing represents a 
major loss to the administration and a great mis­
fortune to the student body.
Through forty-three years he grew to become a 
symbol of Carnegie Tech, a model of faithful, 
dutiful service admired by all. He personalized the 
school for the student. He was the voice and ear 
of Carnegie Tech. Never was his work so press­
ing that consultation about personal problems was 
denied the student. Never did the student leave his 
office hastened by a flurried atmosphere. Never 
did the student feel that his return would not be 
welcomed—even anticipated. Those are the marks 
of a distinguished man.
I believe that we who knew Dr. Work should 
make an effort to perpetuate his memory and the 
memory of what he stood for by setting up some 
sort of memorial. Whether it is an actual physical 
memorial or some other type is not important. 
But it is important not to forget Dr. Work, who 
was a great man and a beloved friend to so many 
students.
Philip F. Lawler 
Mgmt. Sr.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
---------------------H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................. 8 a.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ............................*........... 11 a*
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.)
m_
m.
CANTERBURY HOUSE
5170 Margaret Morrison Street
Student Prayers—Wednesday Evenings at 10 
Holy Communion—Thursday Mornings at 7:30
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME
UNDERWOOD
*8450tkn fri. ÍMth«To« $5.07
TIRM5 ARRANGIO
The complete personal typewriter . with inbuilt tabulator and many other feature* that make the “Champion" a truly modern portable. Finished in soft French-gray and chromium. Smart carrying case included.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
IF Dance At 
Syria Mosque
Yearbook Layout / 
Change Opposed
Interfraternity council’s dance 
committee announced its decision 
to hold the annual IF formal, 
scheduled for February 26, in the 
ballroom of the Syria Mosque. The 
announcement was made during 
the council meeting on October 4
Approval by three fraternities, compared with denial by seven, 
»¿presented council’s opinion con­
cerning a proposed change in the 
Thistle layout of fraternity pic­
tures. Two fraternities were not 
represented.
The proposal, presented by Ed­
itor John Biewener, involves us­
ing pictures of individual mem­
bers instead of the usual group 
poses. Biewener officially an­
nounced the decision of the This­
tle staff—to let each fraternity 
choose its own layout — at the meeting held October 11.
As a result of a raid by mem­
bers of Phi Delta Theta fraternity 
of the University of Pittsburgh on 
Carnegie fraternity houses, a mo­
tion was passed to write a letter 
to the Pitt IF protesting the re­
moval of trophies and beer mugs 
from two campus houses.
Council’s investigation of the 
possibility of using the parking 
facilities of Morewood Gardens for indoor storage of cars belong­
ing to fraternity men resulted in 
a refusal of permission by the administration. Primary reason for 
the refusal involved fire laws.
Additional business conducted 
at the meeting included the ap­
pointment by President Lee Wiley 
of six members to the Intramural 
board.
Pep Rally
Homecoming festivities will 
begin Friday evening with a 
bonfire and snake dance start­
ing in the Bowl at 8:00. The 
Kiltie Band will begin the rally 
by parading through the cam­
pus. Following the rally there 
will be a snake dance to the 
dance in the gymnasium.
VA Moved 
To IH133
Representative Here 
Only On Mondays
The much-moved office of the 
Veteran’s Administration at CIT 
is moving again. Contrary to the 
belief of some, the office is con­
tinuing its function as in the past, 
but from a new location—in IH 
133.
Changes have been made in the 
VA schedule, however, for the 
veteran’s representative will be 
on campus only on Mondays to 
interview those attending school 
under Public Law 16. These in­
terviews are by appointment only.
This change affects only the 
vetera n’s representative. The 
school representative will continue 
to be in the office full time. Any 
veterans with questions are re­
quested to visit the office, and all 
veterans are requested to cooper 
ate by reading the Tartan and the 
veteran’s board for additional in­formation.
The number of veterans in the 
school is decreasing. Although 
exact figures are not available, in 
the College of Engineering only 
about 27% of the freshmen class 
are veterans in contrast to about 44% last fall.
Morewood Has 
Open-House At 
Homecoming
Action providing for an open- 
house at Morewood Gardens dur­ing Homecoming, on Saturday 
morning, October 16, from 10:30 
until noon, was passed by Wom­
en’s Dorm Council at its first 
meeting of the year on October 4 in the Union.
Results of the elections held in 
the three upperclass towers of 
Morewood Gardens were an­nounced and the resulte made 
Ethel Friedman, Suzanne Harrold, 
Sally Hutchinson, Lois Luebbe, Jane McCann, and Elaine Sobol 
voting members of the council.
Other business of the meeting 
included the appointment of Ethel 
Friedman as fire chief and Jean Franz as Dorm council’s represen­
tative to Women’s Guild. The 
council decided, following a dis­
cussion, to eliminate the award­
ing of keys to members of Dorm Council.
In addition to the newly elect­
ed girls, the following named 
freshman counselors are members: 
June Alday, Frieda Alexander, 
Jean Franz, and Carol Watt.
Mary Lou Thorpe is the presi­
dent, Frances Christy is vice- 
president, and Dianne Stitt is sec- retary-treasurer.
In the future the council will 
hold its meetings in a special 
meeting room on the first floor of 
Tower A in Morewood Gardens
ALL ROADS 
LEAD TO THE
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
For Both Used And New Text and Reference Books
OPEN 8:30 TO 6
like cream hair tonics
(
contains 
V i rat o 1*
GS.X j
gives your hair 
l^that 11 just-combed’^ 
look—all day long?
NEW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural...it 
feels natural...and 
it stays in place 1 
Try a bottle.
Mu) Vo&WMb
TRADI MARK ® . . - ._'This special compound gives lustre . ; . keeps hair tn place without stiffness.
Student Council Rejects 
Affiliation with NSA
Investigating Committee States 
Membership Not Of Present Value
NSA has finally been removed from the Student Council
agenda. In its meeting on Wednesday, October 6, the Council
considered the matter and decided not to affiliate now but to
keep informed of the group’s activities in case membership
at a later date might be worthwhile.
Acknowledging that “NSA may be a great benefit to
~ "^Carnegie some day,” Councilman 
Tom Hall echoed the general sen-
Homecpming
[Continued from, page I] 
time performance.
Those alumni who manage to 
return by Friday will be able to 
participate in the huge pep rally 
before the first of the weekend 
dances. Carnegie’s cheerleaders 
will be leading yells at both the rally and the game.
Affairs restricted to alumni only 
include the faculty-alumni lunch­
eon to be held in Skibo on Sat­
urday and a variety of class re 
union dinners planned for Fri­
day and Saturday nights. Mr. 
John Elliot, Alumni secretary, will 
be in charge of alumni affairs 
General information and a mime­
ographed program of all Home­
coming activities will be availa 
ble to alumni during registration on Friday and Saturday.
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.—2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
—also—
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
Krupa To Play 
Sweet Music
Jump Style Softened; 
New Music Danceable
Carnegie Tech students will be 
glad to know that Gene Krupa 
will play sweet music at the Home­
coming dance. Although Krupa’s 
band once concentrated on jazz, 
its style has changed from jazz to 
sweet in recent years.
Evidence of this change may be 
observed from the following com­
ments of a music editor at Akron 
university where Krupa recently 
played:
“Among the recent name bands 
who have appeared in Akron, the 
best by far was Gene Krupa’s . . . 
improvement in his band in the 
last few months is unbelievable 
. . plays very few jump tunes, 
shelving them in favor of the top 
ballads and hepped-up classics.”
Kiltie Uniforms
[Continued from page 1] 
stay in Canada for at least 48 
hours, the bandsmen decided to 
make the trip worth while per­
sonally by taking in as much of 
the city as they could.
Having left Pittsburgh early on 
Friday evening, October 1, they 
had almost the entire weekend to 
dally away in the Canadian city. 
All of them enjoyed their “vaca­tion.”
However, on returning to the 
border station they found them­
selves rather diligently questioned 
by the U. S. customs agents. The 
customs men decided that six men 
each bringing into the country 15 
yards of such material were not 
planning on using the material for 
their own private aims and 
promptly decided to affix a re­
spectably high duty.
The boys wef-en’t phased by this blow, but when they found that 
they couldn’t have the shipment approved by the customs officials 
until Monday morning they de­
cided to leave the cloth at the border so they could hurry back to their first classes.
timent of Council that at the pres­
ent time CIT could derive no im­
portant benefits from membership 
in the organization.
Controversy over the seeming­
ly perennial problems of activi­
ties keys and organizational ban­
quets shared attention with NSA. 
The budgets for three campus or­
ganizations were also considered.
Following defeat of a motion to 
join NSA, Councilmen Hall and 
Gerald Meyers proposed a plan 
whereby Council could keep in 
touch with the organization pend­
ing further consideration. This 
plan, which provides for a com­
mittee to attend the convention 
and conferences of NSA and to 
report to Council biennially on 
the subject, was approved.
Arguments based on a report 
of the NSA convention by Coun­
cilmen Meyers and Hall discussed 
the advantages and disadvantages 
of joining the national group. 
Criticism of the organization and 
its policy stemmed from the fact 
that NSA is concerned with prob­
lems relatively unimportant on 
the Carnegie Tech campus, and 
suffers from inadequate facilities 
for the solution of the problems 
discussed. An additional criticism 
concerned the stress which NSA 
places on international problems 
while relegating national prob­
lems to a place of secondary im­
portance.
Advantages cited included the 
sound financial basis of NSA and 
the prestige to be gained by join­
ing the organization. Politically, 
NSA is “middle of the road,” hav­
ing no affiliations or commitments. 
Nevertheless, in the opinion of 
Council, CIT has much more to 
offer NSA than NSA has to of­
fer us at the present time.
Stating that “keys are a lasting 
token of appreciation for services 
and that much more enjoyment is 
derived from them than from 
banquets,” Councilman Bennard 
Perlman asked Council to “cut 
out the money spent on banquets 
instead of the money spent on keys.”
This problem of keys versus 
banquets has faced Council con­
tinually for the past year, but 
no definite decisions have result­
ed from a number of heated dis­
cussions. Councilman Perlman’s 
proposal followed the establish­
ment by Council last week of a 
[Continued on page 6]
1949 
Kiltie Cal e lidars
On Sale to Alumni During Homecoming
Featuring
Large Space For Daily Entries
Many Pictures of Kilties and the Campus
Buy them on Saturday
Football Game 
Carnegie Union 
Fraternity Houses 
Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948
ÔRANC.E/' 
-An;ea£3w*tt, 
mis scmcruh _ rttEf >
COME TO ME ARMS YA FîAimnn./^
Men’sCaar
TAB FAMOUS | SPALDING J5-V
Tartans Fall Before Marietta, -27-7]
Franklin And Marshall Team 
Promises Strong Opposition
Undefeated Diplomats Count Heavily On 
Lowder In First Game With CIT Since ’40
Coach Bill Donohoe will send his Carnegie Tech gridders against 
one of their strongest opponents of the year this Saturday when 
the Plaid plays host to Franklin and Marshall in the climax to the 
annual Homecoming proceedings.
The Diplomats from
will field a starting eleven which 
includes seven sophomores. Head 
coach Woody Sponaugle, Little 
All-America at F&M in 1936, will 
count heavily on back Jack Low­
der, whom he has called “one of 
the finest prospects I have ever 
coached.” The invaders squeezed 
their way past a tough Lehigh 
team in their 1948 opener and 
later topped a game John Hopkins 
squad to establish themselves as 
one of the powers in the East.
Carnegie will probably use the 
same starting lineup that made its 
debut against Marietta. Johnny 
Williamson and Fred Wilson will 
be at the ends, Norm Keats and 
Gerry Meyers at the tackles, Larry 
Stovicek and Floyd Wiseman at 
the guards, and Jack Windish at 
center. The backfield will con­
sist of Nick Simcic, Ray Warner, 
Bobby Sommers and Arnie Oberg.
The visitors employ the same 
single wingback formation that 
has been used so effectively by 
the Tartans this season. The Dips 
acute shortage of tackles and ends 
has necessitated a shift of play­
ers between those positions and 
thus prevented the use of the T 
and other more complicated sys­
tems. The shortage has also ham­
pered the defensive efficiency of 
the Blue and White to such an ex­
tent that Coach Sponaugle has 
pulled out the crying towel and is 
sadly lamenting his plight.
The Lancaster team has come 
up with two fine kicking special­
ists among their 35 man squad. 
Shel Pfeifer, a Philadelphia prod­
uct, handles all of the punting 
chores, while Johnny Rohrer’s 
golden toe adds all of the conver­
sions from placement. Rohrer’s 
booting is considered to be such 
an asset that Sponaugle has de­
cided to withhold him from all 
action other than his kicking as­
signments.
The Tartans and Diplomats have 
met on two previous occasions 
with Carnegie copping both en­
counters. In 1909 the Plaid topped 
F&M, 11-5, and then registered 
an 18-6 win in 1940. The upset 
victory tallied in 1940 was over a 
rugged team which had previously 
nosed out Dartmouth’s Indians.
With the precedent for victory 
already set for them, the CIT 
eleven will answer the opening 
whistle holding a psychological 
advantage. Scores of alumni will 
be on hand to cheer the locals on 
to another anticipated upset win. 
Despite the heavy odds against 
them, Carnegie once again looms 
as the “spoiler” in the opposition’s 
schedule.
SPALDING
0
IN THE 1924 ILLW0S- AUCÏÏ1GAN GAME
RED GRXNGEPUT ON TOOTBALTC GREATEST OKE-MAN
VOL.42—No—5.4CCC
HE CARRIED TREBALL EXACTS HVE TIMES AND SCOR££> EXACTLY FIVE TOKKdowns/
TOOK. IN TffcTlRST TViELVE MINUTE^/
T«E BALL THAT GETS THE CALL 
IN AMERICA^ LEADING 
GKlDlfcON CLASSICS 
AND IN MOST OP 
THE ANNUAL 
BOWL GAMES..
sets
Game 
Summary
CARNEGIE TECH
Ends—Williamson, Wilson, Dougherty, Donato.Tackles—Madden, Keats, Meyers.
Guards—Stovicek, Wiseman, Maxton.Centers—Windish, Kamaras.
Backs—Oberg, Simcic, Luchok, Som­mers, Minnich, Armour, Trabits, De- 
Giovanni, Haney, Kenney, Magnifico.MARIETTA
Ends—Dronzek, F. Morse, A. Water­man.
Tackles—Adair, Schreiber, Dulin, Cas- ner, Dudley.
Guards—Brown, Bohanes, Burke, Ha- mill, Haris, J. Morse.
Centers—Como. Weaver, Sherry.
Backs—Schmidt, Rutherford, Biddle, C. Waterman, Hedin, Rubano, Lohr, Ga­ray, Madeja, Lucas, Forshey.
Referee—John Simon, Umpire—A1Slack. Linesman—Dr. Buck Templeton. Field Judge—Ray Boll.
Carnegie Tech 7 0 0 0— 7Washington 14 0 0 7—21Carnegie scoring: Touchdown—William­
son. Points after touchdown—Kenney.
Marietta scoring: Touchdowns —Schmidt, Rutherford, Dronzek. Points 
after touchdown — Dronzek 3 (place­ments).
Simcic picks
F&M Game
Opponent—Franklin & Marshall 
College.
Place—Forbes Field.
Date—Saturday, October 16. 
Time—2:30 P. M., E.S.T.
Radio Broadcast—WPIT.
Facts on Franklin & Marshall:
N ickname—Diplomats.
Colors—Blue and White. 
Conference — Middle Atlantic 
Intercollegiate Football Asso­
ciation.
Head Coach—S. Woodrow Spo­
naugle, F&M, ’37.
Probable starting: line-ups:
FRANKLIN & 
CARNEGIE Pos. MARSHALL
Williamson .... LE .............. HartmanKeats ................... LT ..................... Getz
Wiseman ............ LG....................................... LikensWindish ___.... C ------ Wolfe, Capt.
Stovicek .............. RG ..................... BurakMeyers ................ RT ................. Quinlan
Wilson ................... RE ..................... Wertz
Oberg ................... Q .......................... KingSimcic ................... LH ................. Lowder
Luchok ................ RH ................. CordierSommers .............. F ................. McManus
Visitors Score Twice 
In First Four Minutes
Williamson Makes Lone CIT Tally 
On Long Pass; Other Drives Fail
A scrappy group of football players from little Marietta ! 
college needed only four minutes to knock any idea of win­
ning which Carnegie fans may have entertained right out ofi 
Forbes field last Saturday.
The Pioneers struck with lightning speed and had converted , 
a recovered fumble and, an intercepted pass into two touchdowns and r 
a 14-0 lead before the 3000 fans had settled into their seats.
The only consolation the Tartans had at the end of the game 
was in the statistics chart and in the fine play of halfback Nick 
Simcic and guard Larry Stovicek.
Simcic ran with all the poise and finesse of a seasoned college 
player. Time and again he would return Marietta’s punts and kick- 
offs almost up to midfield, only to have the Pioneers regain the ball
?on an intercepted pass.
Stovicek was easily the lineman 
of the game. He was in on every | 
play, rushing Marietta’s passers I 
and punts, and was about the only I 
Skibo lineman who wasn’t trapped 
at one time or another.
The Plaid was extremely weak 
on the fundamentals of blocking 1 
and tackling. Their most serious 
fault however was anxiety. In an 
attempt to get back in the game after Marietta’s first two touch­
downs, they started to heave pass­
es all over the field.One of these passes was good 
for their only score but seven 
others were hauled down by Ma­
rietta. It was puzzling that Car­
negie did revert to a passing game 
so early in the fray, especially 
When their ground attack was eat­
ing up so much yardage. Sommers 
and Simcic ripped off several 
large gains each time before an 
intercepted pass.Marietta had a tricky running 
game built around 145 lb. half­
back Buck Rutherford and 190 lb. 
fullback Chet Waterman. Their 
best ground gaining play was a 
delayed cross buck which the Car­
negie line never figured out.
The game marked the Plaid’s 
20th consecutive defeat and still 
left them on top of the nation’s 
most consistent football teams, 
just a step ahead of Notre Dame.
Coach Bill Donohoe, in an at­
tempt to prevent complete ex­
haustion of the first team as in 
the Washington game, made whole team substitutions throughout the 
game. This proved to be a com­
plete failure.The second team was no match 
for Marietta, either as an of­fensive or defensive unit. The last 
Marietta touchdown was scored 
amid general confusion on both 
the bench and field as a whole 
team was being sent in. It was an 
astounding play, a sleeper pass to 
Dronzek directly across the field 
with not a Tartan defensive back 
within 30 yards of him.
I ¦¦ format ion
Officials:
Referee—Stephan A. Bodnar. 
Umpire—Louis F. Demler. 
Linesman—John Kostecki. 
Field Judge—Joseph Zivic.
Intramural
Summary
Results
Beta Theta Pi—30; Emanon—24.
Gringos—9; Stanley Steamers—8.
Scheduled
Wednesday, Oct. 13—Phi Kappa vs 
TNT.
Thursday, Oct. 14—Sigma Alpha Ep­
silon vs Emanon, Gringos vs Theta Xi.
Monday, Oct. 18—P F H A vs Alpha 
Tau Omega, Delta Tau Delta vs Dra- 
mats, Sigma Nu vs Tau Delta Phi.
Tuesday, Oct. 19—Citcom vs TNT, Beta 
Theta Pi vs Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Wednesday, Oct. 20—Stanley Steamers 
vs Theta Xi.
Something To WHISTLE At!
You have a TREAT right in your own backyard 
For Your Evening Pleasure
DON METZ
IS DEVOTING HIS LARGE DINING ROOM
To TECH and PITT Students
for Evening Entertainment & Dancing
AT STUDENT BUDGET PRICES
Make This Your Place For Lunch and Evening Enjoyment 
LUNCH AS LOW AS 55c NO COVER AND NO MINIMUM
3802 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

EDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
negie thin-clad, now enrolled in 
night school. He hopes to be again 
enrolled in day classes in time to 
participate in track next spring.
The first inter-collegiate match 
is with Geneva College at Beaver 
Falls on October 15. The first 
home meet is with Case October
arsity Basketball Has 
\irnout of Forty-five
Squad Cut To Thirty Players 
As Coach Stresses Fundamentals
A noteworthy feature of the 
meet was the large number of 
men running for the Skibos. Fif­
teen men started the race and fif­
teen finished, which gives evi­
dence that the crosscountry squad 
this year will be hard to beat.
| When the first whistle blew for 
•varsity basketball practice on ¡Wednesday, September 29, ap­
proximately forty-five men re­
ported to assistant coach Frank 
rMel” Cratsley.
Among these forty-five men 
were nine lettermen from last pear’s team. They were Bianchi, 
^hetlin, Dunn, Ellies, Hamman, 
Matsey, McCullough, Rheil, and 
Theodore. Kuzma, a letterman 
from the 46-47 team, is also back, as are Clinton, King, Koos, and 
Matthews of last year’s junior Varsity.
The squad was narrowed down 
to approximately thirty men on 
October 6 when Coach Cratsley 
cut fifteen men. He plans another 
cut sometime in the future.
The team has been practicing 
m Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays since September 29, and 
the present plans are to start prac­
ticing five days a week beginning October 18.
The emphasis so far has been
on conditioning and fundamentals, 
and Coach Cratsley plans to con­
tinue this practice for some time.
He told the squad that “funda­
mentals are the basis of any game, 
and they should be practiced un­
til they become second nature. 
There will not be time during a 
game,’ he said, “to stop and think 
‘how should I pivot, pass or shoot.’ 
There will be more important things to think of.”
Practices have been starting 
with approximately fifteen min­utes of calisthentics following by passing, pivoting, shooting, fak­
ing and dribbling drills for the 
rest of the time. Thus far there have been no scrimmages.
Uinarcl ^tudi
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurryFor That Quick Bite, the
MUseum 03143813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
More independent experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two leading brands combined!Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
An impartial poll covering all the Southern tobacco markets reveals 
the smoking preference of the men who really know tobacco—auction* 
eers, buyers and warehousemen. More of these independent 
experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined.
LPHA DELTA PHI
with TSSam Mu>/
ARROW GORDON OXFORD SHIRTS 
ARE FAVORITES OF COLLEGE MEN
So, for your own real deep-down smoking enjoyment, smoke the smoke tobacco experts smoke!
7 mk FresFFhThe new 
/ VMV /Jtmmm:mstSV*' arrow
-TraTdmmjmsr* "fenway"
$3.95
For the first time since before the war. Arrow is offering a 
wide selection of white, solid color and striped oxfords in 
several collar models especially designed for college men.
Only Arrow shirts have the famous Arrow collar, Mitoga 
shaped-to-fit body and Sanforized label, assurance of less 
than 1% shrinkage. Arrow ties—$1 to $2.50.
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR e HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.OaklandSo round, so firm, so fully packed —so free and easy on the draw

---------------------------------------------------

departments of the College. Dr. 
Norman H. Dawes of the depart­
ment of history wrote the text, 
and the photographs were taken 
by Charles Nelson and Lawrence 
H. Miller. Design is by Robert L. 
Lepper, CIT 1927.
CA*1pC(s
COME,COME \_ '
ACE NEWSHAWK (JA 
JERRY-1 CANT 
s. USE YOUR 
|\SISQUSPKPAUAN\ 
SENTENCES.
iKfSv ,F THAT 00008 f/ lx§®X vooRS wont¦V/rCfX LET YOU \V>y\ ft\ ¦LOCIBAT«- 
. VOURE. FlfttD.f
Robert Paustian has been se­
lected by the Carnegie Tech chap­
ter of Tau Beta Pi to represent it 
at the national convention of the 
honorary in Austin, Texas tomor­
row through Saturday.
Paustian has been made a mem­
ber of the committee to propose 
a change in the Tau Beta Pi con­
stitution which will allow the ad­
mission of women to regular 
membership. In the past women 
have never been awarded full 
membership in the honorary.
EASES r;rHIERARCHY OF
iftURNAltSt
I FEEL LOW ASA 
HERPETOLOGISTS € 
PRIDE'S
HAUNCHES, v pjf
THOSE
CIGARETTES I /% V\ t< 
SMOKE LEAVE/1A VI £ 
MY THROAT f V S/Jso dry and j y
PARCHED, WWl
I CANT EVEN ( j Mil call in fer/V
A STORY. Mf * :|L
SAY, THAT SOUNDS 
LIKE CM3ARETTS HANGOVER!
THANKS LOTS. 
JOHNNY, I 
NEARLY LET 
CIGARETTE 
^HANGOVER 
J WRITE 
SP*30'K>R 
il ME
SHE’S RIGHT, JERRY! 
WHY DONT YOU SWITCH 
TO PHILIP MORRIS? 
THEY’RE THE ONLY 
LEADING CIGARETTE 
PROVED DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, /ftFreshman YMCA
The YMCA will hold a meeting 
for freshmen at the Carnegie 
Union on October 14 at 7:30 p. m. 
Prof. E. M. Starr of the mathe­
matics department will speak on 
“The Scientific Age and Religion.”
Canterbury Club
Canterbury Club elected a stu­
dent vestry at its first meeting on 
October 6.
Members selected are: Russell 
Turner, senior warden; Pat Ryan, 
junior warden; Nancy Pardue, 
secretary; Jack Horner, treasurer; 
and Charles Sayne, vestryman.
Several members of the club 
will participate in vesper services 
to be held by Rev. Hugh S. Clark, 
pastor of the Church of the Re­
deemer, on October 17 in the min­
ing town of Dunbar, Pa.
SWELL GOING, JERRY! YOUR STORY OF 
THE PREXYS POLEMIC IS SLIGHTLY 
----------% TERRIFÎREVITALIZE YOUR VOCABULARY
COME,\C_ ' ANW OSHK JR HKY J-1Ts 
.U|K H IHQP-¦ KV/¦'¦rVV1f 
XLM,FElOtD ' ASNGGNHK1 ¦GHKW-HWV 
% PVI-GNHS 1J KV/¦ rH/£df 
tDtyMOaDnElOEF'E RJH1'HKc'H'RIHGR 
GJKWi PVS1HNKNKW 1J 1VK'cJGGHS /JScdf 
DlM\OnEeD : eJ rNQ UP 1rV ^H¦cH1 
JS QH£V O1 IGVHSVSf
CD,aDeLlL*Ote3t a,OnD3t 
CEMF\CDt ' tKH£V3s rNPd 1J YJ-f 
\O*E,DeeD CEF*L0^'erH1 dQJ£Jc'JT| 
3 1H¦1Vs 1rH1 1NWr1s cSY RVVGNKW GH YV/ 
1rSJH1s c-J 1J ¦QJ£NKWf
>: XJ-SKHGV¦V RJS ’^d JS Qcf 
aLlD^O\f:E RNWr1NKW |PVVc|f 1 
t\LLa : FV/¦PHPVS 1JQ RJS JdC 
/N11NKW 1GNJ IJQPV1N1NJKf
YOU OUGHT Wg 
TOTiiANK JpJ 
JOHNNY TOO 
MEL. HE GKJi % 
ME THE LEAD I ^ 
NEEDED TO SCORE 
A’SCOOP'
WITH PHILIP 
MORRIS.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream (ones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
You’ll enjoy a milder, fresher, cleaner smoke in 
PHILIP MORRIS—the one cigarette recognized by eminent 
nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating than 
any other leading brand. That’s why, all over America, 
smokers report* no cigarette hangover when you 
smoke PHILIP MORRIS. Yes, you’ll be glad tomorrow, you 
smoked PHILIP morris today!Three Stores In the College District
5808 Ferbes Street Squirrel Hill
f
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948
Bulletin Board
Chapel Choir
Chapel choir had its first meet­
ing of the semester on October 5 
in the exhibition room of Fine 
Arts. William Benswanger will 
direct the choir this year. Last 
year’s director, Charles Tritle, will 
act in an advisory capacity.
All students are welcome to try 
out for t}ie Chapel choir. Rehear­
sals are held at 11:30 every Tues­
day in the exhibition room except 
when there is a Kiltie band con­
cert. Then the rehearsals will be 
held at 12:30.The first chapel service will be 
held on October 19, at 11:30 in the 
Little Theatre.
Fine Arts Bulletin
The new Fine Arts bulletin of 
the College of Fine Arts was re­
leased October 5 for distribution 
to other colleges, high schools, and 
applicants to Carnegie Tech.
An attractive 28-page brochure, 
the booklet contains pictures de­
scribing the work done in the five
Home Ec Club
The Home Economics ciub will 
hold a party this afternoon at 3:30 
in the recreation hall to honor 
the freshman girls of Margaret 
Morrison. All upperclassmen in 
the home economics department 
and former members are urged to attend.
Tau Beta Pi
Tau Beta Pi, will hold a busi­
ness meeting tomorrow at 7:30 in Room A in the Carnegie Union. 
The matters to be discussed will 
include calling of new members 
on Carnegie Day.
YMCA
In response to numerous re­quests, the Chapel programs spon­
sored by the YMCA for this se­
mester will be based on discus­sions of the relationship of re­
ligion to various divisions of the 
college. The first of these will pre­
sent Miss • Vivian Crow, head of 
the department of home econom­
ics, who will discuss “Religion
and the Home” on October 19.
Other talks in this series will be 
“Science and Religion” by Dr.
Emerson Pugh of the physics de­
partment on November 19, and 
“Art and Religion” on January
11. The YMCA will also sponsor the Christmas Chapel on Decem­
ber 14.
Student Directory
Alpha Phi Omega is planning to 
publish an activities directory in 
the latter part of October. The di­
rectory will be similar to the one 
published by APO last year.
According to APO’s president, 
Ludwig Benner, the organization 
lacked the funds to support this 
year’s directory. Student Council, 
however, has appropriated the 
money for the directory and APO 
plans to assess each organization 
one dollar for each fifteen names 
published. This arrangement, it is hoped, will provide enough money 
to pay for next year’s directory.
Letters have been sent to the 
heads of all school organizations 
explaining the plan ajid they have 
submitted lists of their members.
A supplement will be published 
early in the spring semester to bring the directory up to date.
Student Council
[Continued from page 3]
committee to consider what re­
visions should be made in the 
present policy of awarding keys 
while retaining the present award 
system. However, because no sec­
ond to the motion was offered, no 
action was taken on the Perlman 
proposal.
Among other business consid­
ered by Council were the ap­
proval of budgets for Scabbard 
and Blade and YWCA. Approval 
of the budget for the Women’s 
Guild was withheld one week 
pendng an investigation into the 
usefulness of the organization.
Kiltie Band Gives 
Concert Friday
The Kiltie band opens its fori mal concert season October 15 
at Stephen Foster memorial on th« 
University of Pittsburgh campus, 
playing for the music teacher sec. 
tion of the Western Pennsylvania Teachers’ association.
William A. Schaefer, director 
of the band, will be the principal speaker on the program. He will 
discuss high school bands and 
their problems. The program 
which begins at 1:30, will featur« 
“Marche Slav” by Tschaikowsky 
Symphony in B flat, and several other selections.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948tffiE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
ito LWAYdSbEXPRESS
NATION-WIDE HAIL-AIR SERVICE
Evening
School
Personalities
MRS. DOROTHY HEATH
So you think you ^ork hard? 
You will have to make it pretty 
stiff to top the amount of work 
done by Mrs. Dorothy Heath. One 
of our most energetic evening stu­
dents, Mrs. Heath is carrying a 48 
unit program this semester. She 
attends classes every evening, and 
is taking six courses. These sub­
jects are varied, for Mrs. Heath 
is not majoring in any depart­
ment. Her schedule includes: Eng­
lish composition, industrial psy­
chology, public speaking, indus­
trial history, business law and la­
bor problems. She says that she is 
trying to make up for the educa­
tion which she missed because of 
her early marriage.
Mrs. Heath resides in Twin Wil­
lows, Butler County, with her 
husband and two children in a 
home which they built themselves. 
This summer they built a cabin 
on the Allegheny 'river in the 
probable record time of 1% days. 
She is adept in the use of wood­
working tools as well as the more 
:ommon housewife’s utensils. Her 
accomplishments with needle and 
thread are notable, for in the 
/ears since her marriage she has 
nade twenty-four quilts, several 
rocheted tablecloths and numer­
ous dolies and other household 
inens.
Mrs. Heath is a member of sev- 
ral women’s clubs, and is very 
Treatly interested in the girl 
cout movement. Her thirteen 
•ear old daughter has been nam­
ed the best girl scout in Pennsyl­
vania, and Mrs. Heath hopes that 
she will continue in scouting .¿r 
her later life. At present 2AR 
drives to school and back ever; 
day, but is looking for anothe 
means of getting here because she 
is somewhat alarmed at the pros­
pect of driving over icy roads this 
winter.
Night School Students 
Receive Activities Keys
22 Keys Awarded At Banquet;
Chester Biscup Wins Fourteenth
Twenty-two students were awarded insignia keys at Evening 
Student Council’s annual insignia banquet last Saturday evening at 
Carnegie Union. Awards were earned by students for their extra­
curricular campus work with Evening Student Council.
Chester Biscup, now completing studies in electrical engineer­
ing and past president of Evening Student Council, was presented 
his fourteenth award. Frank Mihelic, present student advisor to 
Evening Student Council, was< ?-
awarded his fifth insignia.
Third Awards
John Vranic, James Flaherty, 
Anne Shack Hall and Cecille Zell- 
ner were awarded third year keys. 
These students have earned their 
awards by work with council on 
dances, the Plaid and other activi­
ties sponsored by council.
Second Awards 
Second year awardees were 
Louis Adams, George Bqgovich, 
Elsie Capelli, Elizabeth Lang, Nor­
man Martello, Anthony Miscimar- 
ra, Katherine Romanoff, Will 
Schn arrenberger, Raymond 
Schwalm and Albert Snowden, i 
George Bogovich Is now president j 
of Evening Student Council, Ray- > 
rrvond Schwalm is social chairman \ 
and Louis Adams is Plaid editor 
for the year.
First Awards 
Mary Gail Burns, Charlene To- 
hey, George Dawes, Grace Kru­
ger, John Miller and Patricia 
Schaffer earned first awards. 
Charlene Tohey is now associate 
editor of the Plaid.
First year awards take the form 
of a silver key with a background 
of red, blue, green and yellow 
representing the Carnegie Tartan. 
Second and third year awards are 
similarly designed in gold with the 
third year key set with a ruby. 
Awards beyond the third are in 
the form of an embossed shingle.
Deans Attended 
Among guests attending the in­
signia banquet were J. A. Dickin­
son, dean of men; Josephine 
Campbell, dean of women; J. M. 
Daniels, chairman of admissions; 
Dalziel McKelway, evening regis­
trar, and Glen U. Cleeton, director 
of evening classes.
Dr. Work
Evening Student Council and 
the Plaid staff wish to join the 
faculty and students of Carnegie 
Tech in extending their sympathy 
to the family of Dr. W. R. Work. 
Always a good friend to evening 
school students, he will be greatly 
missed by his rhany associates on 
our campus.
SCHENLEY 
HAND LAUNDRY
418 South Craig Street
2 DAY SERVICE
Darning and Mending Free
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
II J3 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your Service
EARN MONEY 
IN YOUR SPARE TIME
Make big money between now and Christmas by selling our New Holi­
day Gift Box.
This different yet universally accept­able gift sells on sight to business firms to use as Christmas presents to customers and employees and direct 
to individuals.
LIBERAL COMMISSION
This is no ordinary offer. Write for details sending full information about 
yourself.
REIMER DENREE COMPANY
Box 946 Kansas City 10, Missouri
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ........................................................................ _ L0U Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager.................................................George Dawes
Staff
Frank Mihelich, Bob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille 
Zellner, Pat Schaffer, Jim Flaherty.
Editorial
Revive School Spirit!
Last Saturday evening the annual insignia award banquet 
was held by Evening Student Council. At that time twenty- 
two awards were presented to those who had participated in 
extra-curricular activities last year. We were pleased to see 
those people, but we deplore the fact that the recipients of 
thos awards were interested in only two activities, the Plaid 
and Evening Student Council. Our reason for saying this is 
the apparent lack of interest in any other work on campus.
In past years there were sometimes as many as sixty awards 
given for achievement in the various colleges and many fra­
ternities were active. Now the separate college governments are 
non-existent, and there is only one active fraternity. In former 
years there was something happening almost every week, but 
now we seldom see more than five or six gatherings a year. 
Surely there are some students somewhere on our campus who 
would like to see more activity. Why not call a meeting to get 
things going again? The Plaid will gladly help by publishing 
any announcements or news of new groups.
On Saturday, October 23 the smoker and tea which are 
being held will provide an excellent chance for someone to try 
to begin a new group or to revive some of the old ones. It is 
worth a try.
A pertinent question among evening students at Carnegie 
Tech this year is “Why are student football tickets not avail­
able to us?” Truly this a matter for serious consideration. 
The evening students pay tuition and various fees into the 
treasury of C.I.T. Maybe not in the same amount as day stu­
dents per year, but over a period of years the accumulated pay­
ments balance off.
At a time when school spirit is being hauled out of the 
closet and dusted off by a lot of boys who are giving their 
all for a winning football season, it seems that the increased 
numbers in the rooting section would give them added impetus. 
The football team is made up of day students, but the emo­
tions of eyening students rise and fall with the wins and re­
verses of the Plaid.
There is plenty of room in the spacious Forbes Field; there 
are over a thousand evening students waiting to cheer the 
Plaid on. Gains could be made both to the athletic fund and 
school spirit. Let’s unite Carnegie Tech day and evening school 
student bodies a little closer.
How about a student-priced ticket for evening students. 
Of course, in the meantime, evening school shouts a loud and 
hearty “Yea Team.”
Laundry worries got you? Then 
•tart using »he direct conven­
ient, personalized laundry 
»ervice offered by RAILWAY 
EXPRESS. By personalized serv­
ice we mean your laundry will 
be collected by Railway Ex­
press pick-up facilities, sent to
your home promptly, and re­
turned to your college address.
If your folks insist on paying 
all the bills, you can stretch your 
cash-on-hand by sending laun* 
dry home ‘‘charges collect" and 
having it returned with charges 
prepaid at the other end.
Ne extra charge for pick-up and delivery in all citie* 
and principal town*. Valuation free up to $50.00Good Meals Anytime
Try Us Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
LOOSI, ugly dandruff and scraggly locks were getting Billy’« 
nanny. Then—he discovered Wildroot Cream-Oil and ate helf 
a bottle before discovering that a little is all you need to 
groom hair, relieve dryness and remove loose dandruff. Have 
you tried it? If not—goat to your nearest drug or toilet 
goods counter for a bottle or tube, today. And ask your 
barber for professional application;. No ifs, ands or butts 
about it—Wildroot Cream-Oil is again and again the choice 
of men who put good grooming first. It’s also preferred by 
goats of distinction. No kiddin! Try it!
* of $27 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1948!
Council To Discuss Proposed 
Constitutional Changes Today
Elimination Of Percentage Requirement Of 
Senior Members From FA And MM Suggested
Discussion of the proposed re­
visions of the Student Council 
Constitution will highlight the 
Council meeting this afternoon.
The requirement that two-thirds 
of the Council members from Fine 
Arts and Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College be from the senior 
class and the remaining number 
from the junior class is to be 
eliminated.
The position of assistant secre­
tary is to be done away with. 
The council secretary shall be
elected from the representatives of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege. The provision that senior 
and junior representatives be 
elected on two separate ballots is 
no longer necessary.
Council will be required to 
hold meetings every two weeks 
instead of every week. The quor­
um will be changed from three- 
fourths to two-thirds. The position 
of non-voting member is to elim­
inated.
In order to avert confusion, it
is to be stipulated in the document 
that Council shall not have juris­
diction over activities and or­
ganizations which in no way in­
volve any student or students of 
any local chapter affiliated with 
a nationally constituted profes­
sional, activities, or scholastic or­
ganization.
After the discussion of the new 
constitution, the document must 
be approved by the administration 
and accepted by a favorable vote 
of three-fourths of the members 
of Council. It must be further ac­
cepted by a favorable two-thirds 
vote of all the full-time students 
present at a General Assembly 
(the notice of which will be post­
ed in this newspaper). All inter­
ested students may examine cop­
ies of the new constitution in the 
Dean of Men’s office.
Phi Kappa Phi Makes 
Call On Carnegie Day
Phi Kappa Phi, Carnegie’s all­
school scholastic honorary, will 
make its call for new members 
this year on Carnegie Day instead 
of the traditional Spring Carnival 
Call Day. Primary reason for the
change is to enable those who 
tapped to enjoy their membershi 
while still students.
This honorary is recognized a< 
the Phi Beta Kappa of non-liber* 
arts colleges. Its membership in. 
eludes the upper ten percent « 
the senior class, as determined or, 
the basis of average factor at thj 
end of the junior year.
SUNDAES 
SANDWICHES 
MILKSHAKES
p ... at...
Seem il 1er's Forbes and Craig
"Between fokes of my new 
picture, THE LUCK OF THE IRISH, 
I enjoyed many CHESTERFIELDS, 
They’re MILDER...
It's MY cigarette."
* STARRING IN
THE LUCK OF THE IRISH
A 29TH CENTURY-FOX PRODUCTION
