The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943
Mardi Gras Opens Spring Carnival
A-12 Program Is 
Offered In April
The arrangements to administer a 
qualifying test for the Navy College 
Training Program (V-12) as an­
nounced in the TARTAN two weeks 
ago, have been extended to provide 
also for the Army Specialized Train­
ing Program, known as A-12.
As previously announced, the 
tests will be given in the Men’s 
Gymnasium on Friday, April 2, be­
tween 9 and 11 A. M.
The Army plan provides for the 
examination of male students who 
have attoined their seventeenth and 
have not reached their twenty-sec- 
ond birthdays by July 1, 1943, and 
who have graduated or are expected 
to graduate from secondary schools 
prior to that date. It is designed to 
provide information useful to the 
Armed Forces in selecting students 
for college training under the Army 
Specialized Training Program, and 
for classifying others in respect to 
relative trainability.
The purpose of the Army Special­
ized Training Program is to train, at 
college level, men in technical and 
professional skills required by the 
Army. Engineers of all types, doc­
tors, psychologists, linguists, phys­
icists, mathematicians and students 
of foreign areas are needed in large 
numbers, and the Army will estab­
lish this program in those colleges 
and universities where such train­
ing can best be siven.
The eligibility of an individual for 
the program is not fully established 
until he has successfully completed 
the normal 12 or 13 weeks of basic 
military training immediately fol­
lowing his induction into the Army. 
Success on the proposed test, how­
ever, will provide the candidate 
with a certificate of qualification 
which, upon presentation at the 
time of voluntary or regular induc­
tion, will assure his assignment to a 
Replacement Training Center as a 
potential Army Specialized Train­
ing Program trainee.
’43 Red Cross Drive 
Skyrockets Above ’42
$401.76 for the Red Cross from 
Carnegie Tech is a considerably bet­
ter showing than the less than one 
hundred dollars which, was collect­
ed here last year. This is proof that 
careful planning yields good results.
Thanks are in order for everyone, 
but especially to the following per­
sons for their commendable efforts: 
John Ornea, president of Citcom 
Clan; Tistie Weaver, Mortar Board; 
Chuck Jones, Men’s Dorm Council; 
Mary Jane Jones, Women’s Dorm 
Council; Maureen Dyer, I. S. C.; Bob 
Friese, I. F. CHelen Robinson, The 
Cwens; Joe Notary, Dorm Bagpiper; 
Bob Riesacher, Qmicron Delta Kap­
pa.
Twenty Organizations 
Participate In Annual 
Sing Contest On Friday
A quick glance at the “bill of 
fare” for this Friday night reveals a 
very promising program. Sing and 
Swing, as interpreted by O. D. K., 
features twenty groups of singers 
from the various campus organiza­
tions, Greek letter or otherwise. The 
winners of the Sing will be notified 
Saturday noon and will be present­
ed to a “solid” public during the 
11:00 P. M. intermission of the 
Swing, to sing and receive their 
awards. Bernie Armstrong and or­
chestra begin the Swing promptly 
at 9:00 Saturday night and play till 
1:00.
The following time schedule in­
dicated the exact time when the 
groups appear, with the estimation 
that each act will last from six to 
eight minutes:
8:00Phi Kappa......Group 2Men
8:10Beta Pi................Group 1Women
8:20Theta Xi...............Group 1Men
8:30Citcom Clan.....Group 2Women
8:40Delta Upsilon. ...Group 2Men
8:50Alpha Theta
Sigma........Group 2Women
9:00Sigma Alpha
Epsilon ..........Group 3Men
9:10Beta Theta Pi...•Group 2Men
9:20Gamma Gamma
Gamma............. Group 2Women
9:30Pi Kappa Alpha.Group 2Men
9:40 to 10:10—Intermission
10:10Kappa Sigma.... Group 3Men
10:20Kappa Phi Delta.. Group 2Women
10:30Citcom Clan..... Group 1Men
10:40Gamma Phi
Sigma.........Group 2Women
10:50Beta Theta Pi....Group 3Men
11:00Beta Tau*
Lambda...........Group 2Women
11:10Sigma Alpha
Epsilon............Group 1Men
11:20Alpha Kappa Psi.Group 2Women
11:30Delta Tau Delta.• Group 2Men
11:40Men’s Dorms—
Boss Hall........Group 1Men
Navy’s V-12 Program 
To Start About July 1
The new Navy College Training 
Program, V-12, for which the qual­
ifying tests will be given in the Car­
negie Tech gym, April 2, will start 
about July 1. The program will ab­
sorb most of the college students on 
and in active duty in one of the 
Navy Reserve programs, V-l, V-5, 
V-7, and the Marine Corps Reserves.
Candidates accepted by the Navy 
after success, completing the April
2 test, will be enlisted in class V-12. 
Those under 18 years of age at the 
time of their enlistment will be 
placed on inactive duty until they 
are ordered to college.
Students trained for general du­
ties will receive four terms of col­
lege work each of 16 weeks’ dura­
tion, totaling one and one-third 
years of college study. Engineer 
specialists will receive eight 16- 
week terms.
Full details of V-12 program may 
be obtained at the office of Charles 
E. Wangeman, Bureau of Place­
ments, Industries Hall.
Campus To Have First Costume Ball Since 
1937; Big Name Band On Second Night
Since a large number of students will leave the campus at the end of this 
semester when some of the reserve organizations are called to active duty, the 
Spring Carnival Committee, headed by Charles Jones, ME ’44, has decided to 
have a carnival, on April 9-10, in the old tradition that will really be a grand 
sendoff—something that the campus will remember!
As to the program: Spring Carnival of 1943 will be opened on Friday 
night, April 9th, with a Mardi Gras—in costume! It didn’t take the committee 
long to decide that a Mardi Gras background was the only possible setting 
for a carnival such as has been planned. An authoritative source informs us, 
“When we say a Mardi Gras—we mean it! Take the orchestra for instance; 
do you think we’re going to have a band-stand? Of course not! Our band, 
in costume, won’t be in the same spot for more than two dances at a time. We
plan to move them from one end of 
the gym to the other, from the gym 
floor to Thistle Hall, maybe even to 
the swimming pool!
“We don’t want to scare anyone, but 
there really isn’t any Way of telling 
what may happen. We’re going to have 
a costume ball that will measure up to 
anything these hallowed halls have 
ever seen . . . §o brace yourself and 
come to Spring Carnival.”
Your reporter consulted some of the 
more stable members of the committee 
who told him that all sorts of prizes 
will be given, that a special combina­
tion Scottie-Carnival Program will be 
given out, and that there will be a 
competition held for floats. Accord­
ing to Chuck Jones’ engineers, the 
floats may be of any type or construc­
tion as long as they are not larger 
than 55 by 90 inches and conform with 
OPA materials restrictions.
Queen's Court
Photographs of the following mem­
bers of the Queen’s Court, who were 
elected at last Thursday’s poll, have 
been submitted to Bob Cummings in 
Hollywood. From the pictures, he will 
select the girl who will reign over the 
campus and Spring Carnival.
Peggy Cole 
Marge Maddox 
Gladys Mattson 
Helen Robinson 
Martha Sekey 
Rea Simon 
Jane Swearer
Some of the members of Citcom and 
other city residents at first balked at 
the costume idea because they didn’t 
want to ride the street cars in costume. 
The committee has solved the problem 
by securing dressing rooms right on 
campus. Details about these dressing 
facilities will be given shortly.
The TARTAN consulted several 
members of the Drama Departmnet as 
to the technicalities of making cheap 
costumes. This summary should be of 
interest to students who are worried 
about the costs of improvising a cos­
tume :
“A costume can be made out of 
practically anything—and old suit 
or dress dyed and painted—the 
addition of some bit of incongru­
ity. Any cheap material will work 
up to a beautiful costume—cheese­
cloth, tarlatan, muslin, crinoline, 
chintz, an old sheet, curtains, 
shirts, towels, shower curtains, 
paper, cellophane—and for trim— 
flowers, metallic paint, old beads, 
paper cutouts, sttraws, leaves (!), 
eating implements, wire, string.
Continued on page 6
DR. H. A. PRICE
*. . . preparing for the Army . . .
* * *
Dr. Harry Price Will 
Speak At Chapel Today
Dr. Harry A. Price, Minister of 
the Asbury Methodist Church, will 
speak on “Making the Most of Life” 
at today’s chapel in the Little Thea­
ter of Fine Arts Building. Spon­
sored by the honorary societies of 
Tech, Dr. Price’s talk will deal with 
the need for taking advantage of 
present opportunities rather than 
living in the past or looking to the 
future. As this is Lent, it is hoped 
that there will be an especially 
large attendance at this service.
Born in Pennsylvania, Dr. Price 
went to the University of Pittsburgh 
and then to the Garrett Theological 
Seminary at Northwestern Univer­
sity, where he received the degree 
of Bachelor of Divinity.
Dr. Price has been minister of the 
Asbury Methodist Church for seven 
years and is the sponsor of the 
Methodist group here at Tech. Be­
fore his present position, he was 
minister at California, Pa., at Mey- 
ersdale, Pa., and then at the Craf- 
ton Methodist Church. At present 
he is taking Army examinations 
preparatory to becoming a chaplain 
in the United States Army.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943
Zddotä Zdotä2ooÈ, -------------- . . . Letters to the Editor . . .
In The Future™Peace Or War
It was with a great deal of joy that we read the news stories telling of 
the plan which some of the United States Senators proposed last week. This 
proposal is good news for two reasons. First, some concrete foundation for 
post-war planning may come out of this proposal, and second, it indicates that 
the most static group in the country—the United States Senate—has finally 
awakened to the need for present-day post-war planning.
Countless writers, speakers and erstwhile experts have been filling the 
periodicals and the air with reasons why the basis for post-war planning 
should be established now, and each has offered his own plan for a per­
manent and just peace. This myriad of plans and proposals is the best reason 
for beginning now. From all the many panaceas some definite workable plan 
must be developed that will be acceptable to all the victors and the conquered 
as wTell. There is no question about this work taking time.
Persons who have studied and are studying the proposed peace plans rea­
lize, as the students of the three Social Relations seminars on post-war plan­
ning have come to realize, that the more one studies each plan and the prob­
lems and demands of each country, the more difficult it becomes to plan for a 
permanent peace. Almost without exception, however, they believe that some 
feasible plan can and should be worked out.
Most of the projected plans propose one of three types of administration 
of the post-war world. They suggest either a World Order with super-national 
authority, a system wherein the world is divided into a number of regions 
with each region having some sort of governing council over the nations in 
that region, or the same old nationalistic system that exists at present. There 
are advocates of each system trying to make themselves heard above the din 
of battle. Each system has its merits and each has features that may prove 
to be faults, but only one has ever been tried. That one, the present national 
istic system made up of self-centered, imperialistic nation-states, has proved 
conclusively to be a definite failure.
. t 41It is for this reason that something definite must be done. Unless the 
United Nations agree on a feasible plan of action, we shall remain in the 
same rut with the prospect of nothing but war and more war in the years
to come.
How does this affect us, you ask? 
affect their ideas to some small degree.
Each day you talk to persons and
March 18. 
To the Editor of the Tartan:
Dear si?:
In the last issue of the Tartan, 
March 16, 1943, was printed a letter 
to you by President X)oherty. Above 
this letter, it was stated that in the 
course of one of the meetings of the 
Student Conference Committee the 
question of final exams for this semes­
ter was discussed.
I believe that this is a subject which 
affects the whole student body of this 
institute as well as the Juniors in R.
0. T. C.
It is a known fact that in order to 
insure maximum health and alertness 
in both body and mind, a vacation is 
of utmost importance.
In past years this vacation lasted 
the entire summer; now, with the ex­
pedited program, it is a necessity for 
all engineer students to remain at 
school during the summer.
Last summer a precedent was begun 
When final exams for the Juniors were 
called off in order to lengthen the 
few days’ vacation they were to re­
ceive before commencing their senior 
year. It seems to me that since all 
classes are to attend the summer ses­
sion, there should be no reason what­
ever why this precedent should not 
be continued and applied to the school 
as a whole.
Moreover, those of our students who 
are to leave for the Army immediately 
after the close of the semester, should 
be allowed to spend the Easter Holi­
day at home with their families. For 
many of them it will probably be the 
last time they will be with their folks 
for quite some time. To do this would 
mean the elimination of final exams.
As an afterthought, let me add that 
the benefit the student receives from 
cramming a semester’s work into one 
night has long been debated.
Signed E. M. B.
. . . And the Answer
E. M. B.:
I am very sympathetic with your 
point of view regarding final examin­
ations. There are, however, a few as­
pects of this problem that I would like 
to bring to your attention.
First, at the meeting of the Stu­
dent Conference Committee meeting, 
the point was made that if the Ju­
niors were to be called immediately at 
the end of the semester there would 
a,be reason for moving up the date of 
exams to enable those students to get 
home before going into the service. 
However President Doherty’s letter 
made it clear that there would be at 
least two weeks’ freedom—perhaps 
more.
Second, to the best of my knowledge, 
you are mistaken in stating that the 
Juniors were exempted from finals 
last May. Only the graduating Se­
niors left without finals.
Third, most of these seniors regret­
ted not having a regular examina­
tion period. The reason for this regret 
was that the larger p^rt of the faculty 
crammed their final exams in the last 
recitation periods causing some of the 
students to be taking two and three 
finals in one day—and that’s really 
tough!
Fourth, there are, unfortunately, 
some of us who went to school last
summer and who haven’t had a vaca­
tion since the summer of 1941 and 
who still pass for a reasonably accu- 
rate facsimile of healthy human 
beings.
Finally, it strikes me that a vaca­
tion in the middle of exams would be 
a very welcome breathing spell, and it 
would provide an opportunity to study 
for any exams scheduled for the lat­
ter part of the period.
Editor.
Dear Mr. Editor:
While walking across campus the 
other day, a timely thought came to 
my mind. Every time I pick up a 
newspaper or magazine, I am hit in the 
eye by the now famous words “Vic­
tory Gardens.” America needs food, 
students need food, Carnegie Tech will 
play host to a majority of its stu­
dents this summer, so why not let the 
students produce some of their own 
food?
There are at least two or three acres 
of land on campus which are at pres­
ent sporting nothing more useful than 
grass. Among such sites are plots be­
hind the girls’ dormitories, surround­
ing the tennis courts, in front of En­
gineering Hall, and to the left of the 
Fine Arts Building.
I have been told that due to the 
fact that much of this campus is con­
structed on leveled ground, the fertile 
top soil has been removed. Thus it 
would be fairly difficult to farm with­
out a preliminary reconditioning. The 
expense, however, of securing new top 
soil for the select plots of ground 
would be offset by the added returns 
in produce and patriotism. I am not 
an expert in the field of agriculture, 
but expert advice can be easily ob­
tained.
As for manpower to farm the land, 
I feel certain that students attending 
during the summer semester would be 
thankful for the recreation that such 
amateur farming could provide.
L. J. S.
Students To Serve 
As Farm Labor Force
According to a release from the 
OWI, about 500,000 high school and 
college students must be recruited for 
farm work this summer and next fall 
if the goals of the nation’s food pro­
duction effort are to be met. The 
workers, to be called Victory Farm 
Volunteers, will be signed up by all 
available youth organizations as well 
as high schools and colleges This or­
ganization represents the first attempt 
to collect American youth as a farm 
labor force, although last year some 
local communities did use student 
labor.
Many youth groups and the various 
states, as well, are modifying some of 
their rules in order to accommodate 
the new movement. New York has al­
ready changed its education laws to 
allow school boys to miss 30 days’ 
school for farm work, and other states 
are rapidly falling in line. The Amer­
ican Youth Hostelers are changing 
their three-day stay limit for their hos­
tels in order to accommodate sum­
mer farm workers.
If you have some intelligent opinion
regarding winning the peace, these daily conversations will help disseminate 
these ideas about a future peaceful world. It is your duty to yourself, as a 
citizen of this country and this world in the years to come, and as a future 
parent, to become informed about these proposed plans and form an intelli­
gent opinion regarding them.
To this end, may we recommend that each month every student read articles 
on this subject in the Atlantic Monthly and the Reader’s Digest. Make a 
point, also, of looking up Ely Culbertson’s regionalism in February’s Reader’s 
Digest.
Public opinion can prevent our law-making bodies from making a repeti­
tion of the mistakes of 1919 and 1920. Our duty is to see that an intelligent, 
sane public opinion exists on this subject.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4857
MMWUNTID FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY . „ _T _ ,,
^ «*« 
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager.......................BR. 4759
Cmicaso • Boston > Lot Angeles • Sah Fuanckco____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Entered as second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 8, 1879. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Prico 81.10 per year.
Fditor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor........................................................................................................ Jeanne King
Staff Photographer.............................................................................................................Lew Klein
EDITORIAL BOARD: Helena Aronson, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, E. Goldstein, 
T. J. Harmany, Elaine Levin, Dave Neuss, Louisa Saul.
Sports Staff: Don French, Editor; Ashe Etkes, John Lindberg, Bill Beamer Stu Lee, 
Bill Ferguson.
Business Staff...................................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald, Lawrence Schützer
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Aron Beck, 
Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris 
Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Marks, Jtctnne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Dorothy Rutkin Alen Schneider, Alice Sofis, Margee "King, Marty Gross, Dotty 
Greiner, Marshall Nurenberg.
Circulation Manager................................................................... Oiettter Feinberg

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Costume Ec’s To Hold 
Annual Fashion Display
On April 9, 10, and 11, the Cos­
tume Economics Department will 
hold its annual Fashion Show under 
the sponsorship of Kaufmann’s de­
partment store. This year the style 
show will be held in the eleventh 
floor dining room at 3:30 on each 
day. The theme of the show will be 
clothes that can be worn from 
spring into summer, featuring cot­
ton classics.
For the past several years the 
Costume Ec’s have presented a fash­
ion show in cooperation with Kauf­
mann’s who have supplied all nec­
essary materials and accessories. 
This year the war influence will be 
seen in the styles of the clothes as 
well as the material. The costumes, 
which will be of cottons and linens 
with a few rayons, will be of simple 
styles suitable for much use and var­
ious kinds of wear. They will con­
sist of two-piece suits, tailored 
dresses which can be dressed up for 
those special occosions, two-piece 
dresses, and a few play clothes.
The models, who make the clothes 
that they will wear, will be senior 
and junior Costume Ecs., junior 
Home Ecs., and three sophomore 
Costume Ecs.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., March 16, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Boyce, Ho vis, Reisach- 
er, Sher, Wolff, Dolan, Martin and Thomp­
son, and the Misses Bruce, Zonge, and 
Moir.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications 
Mr. Rose moved that the new staff of 
the Dorm Bagpiper be approved. It con­
sists of: Editor, Judy Skeehan; Assistant 
Editor, Rod Keaton; Business Manager, 
Kenneth Vogel; Managing Editor, Sureta 
Timberlake.
In the absence of a quorum, the mo­
tion will be voted on next week.
Spring Carnival
Mr. Jones reported that the election for 
Campus Queen will be held March 18, 
from 11:30 to 1:30. Since it will be im­
possible to hold a Scotch and Soda Show, 
plans are being made to have a oostume 
dance patterned after the Mardi Gras for 
the Friday night affair.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Landerman moved that the amend­
ment to the Constitution of the Carnegie 
Tech Commuters be approved. This con­
stitution will be on the President’s desk 
until next week.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL, 
Secretary.
For Victory
Bowl for Health 
and Enjoyment 
,ouvrrr~
University Recreation
New Alleys and 
Latest Equipment
On Craig Off Forbes
Tons of tin!
Bor years telephone cables have been spliced in a very 
satisfactory way. But the solder joint contained 40 per cent 
war-vital tin.
So Bell System men devised a new type of joint which 
saves up to 80 per cent of the solder. A "Victory Joint” they 
called it.
The new technique has been adopted throughout the 
System with the result that 600,000 pounds of tin and an 
even greater amount of lead can be saved in a normal year’s 
construction.
This is another example of the nation-wide cooperation 
of Bell System people in fulfilling their ideal—service to the 
nation in peace or war.
of Mortar Board, and member of 
about 30 other activities, is the kind 
of girl who goes to every Carnegie 
Tech football game to see the Kiltie 
Band, which she says “she loves 
passionately,” but hasn’t the slight­
est idea as to what goes on on the 
field. That is the way she does 
things. While speaking one sen­
tence, I saw her smile, laugh, sing, 
frown, slip in at least two references 
about A1 Platt, in fact, she did 
everything but a strip polka.
Tistie is the kind of girl who can 
get away with doing things that 
would mean ruin to anyone else. 
Take her card playing for instance. 
As one of her friends told me, 
“when Tistie gets in a game you 
just about have a fit, she bids on 
practically anything and then 
laughs at you — how can you get 
mad at her then?” As to her card 
playing, most of it is done in com­
pany with her fellow “Cadavers.” 
Nothing personal meant! — for the 
Cadavers is a club that Tistie and 
some of her friends formed in their 
first year in Maggy Murph. When 
told about the club, I detected a lit­
tle of the Weaverean influence, for 
in the four years of the club’s ex­
istence, they have never found time 
to elect any officers.
When I asked Tistie about her
future, I could see her 
eyes, behind their Pixie eye-glass 
frames, go through a series of con­
tortions. After she graduates this
Carnegie Printer Edits 
Yankee Paper In Africa
Sgt. Irving Levinson, Printer ’33, 
is one of the 28 American soldiers in 
Algiers whose job is to put out an 
African edition of the Army news­
paper, Stars and Stripes.
According to a letter from Sgt. 
Levinson, he is in charge of the me­
chanics of the publication. Although 
originally handicapped by having to 
use the antiquated equipment of a 
French shop in which no one speaks 
English (neither he nor anyone on 
his staff speaks French), he has 
overcome these obstacles so well 
that the paper has been graduated 
from a small weekly published in 
Algiers to a large daily published 
in several North African cities.
Furnishing reading material to 
soldiers suits Sgt. Levinson. (Ed. 
note: How about you? Did you turn 
in your books yet?) He writes “I 
love my work and feel that I’m do­
ing my share.”
A copy of the paper is on its way 
to the Printing Department, and 
will be put on exhibit.
MISS TISTIE WEAVER
. . . her brother couldn’t say “sister” . . .
spring, she plans to go to the Car­
negie Library School for a year. 
After that, well—she plans to be 
married. There is no doubt about it 
for she has it figured out as to time, 
place and every detail. The fellow, 
A1 Platt; the date, May 14, 1944.
Guild Dance Profits 
Provide Scholarships
Profits from last Saturday’s Guild 
Dance will be used to provide schol­
arships for needy and worthy coeds. 
The lucky girls will be selected at 
a conference between Mrs. Yon and 
the president of the Guild, after 
which Dean Murphy is consulted. 
There is no publicity concerning 
these scholarships, and the women 
receiving them have no knowledge 
that they are under consideration. 
In addition to the scholarships, loans 
are granted to women to purchase 
many important items such as books 
and glasses.
Unfortunately, considering the 
worthy purpose of this organization, 
the dance was not as successful as it 
should have been. Equally unfor­
tunate was the lack of interest in 
war stamp corsages; however, as 
Carnegie students seem to be slowly 
awakening to the reality of war, 
perhaps the dismal failure of this 
venture will not be repeated at fu­
ture affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943
. . . On the Campus . . .
“On the Campus” is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be­
fore publication.
Government Jobs for Graduates!
Uncle Sam has opened its doors 
to college graduates seeking profes­
sional careers in government serv­
ice. In an unprecedented announce­
ment, the Civil Service Commission 
reported it will accept applications 
for positions as junior professional 
assistants.
Here are the precedent-shattering 
provisions of the commission’s an­
nouncement: (1). No time limit is 
set for receipt of applications. (2). 
Examinations will be held period­
ically as the applications come in. 
(3). Seniors may file applications 
when they are a half or a full semes­
ter from graduation and if they are 
successful on the test, they may re­
ceive provisional appointments be­
fore graduation.
According to Civil Service offi­
cials, “Anyone who has completed 
or is about to complete a full 4-year 
college course is eligible to take the 
test, but women are especially urg­
ed to apply, particularly those with 
studies in public administration, 
business administration, economics, 
economic geography, library sci­
ence, history, public welfare, statis­
tics, mathematics and agriculture.” 
W. A. A. C. Assembly!
A special representative of the W. 
A. A. C. will address a gathering in 
the Margaret Morrison Assembly, 
Tuesday March 30 at 11:30 A. M. 
This program will be sponsored by 
Mortar Board and is open to all the 
girls of C. I. T.
Faculty Discussion
The next bi-weekly meeting of 
the faculty will be held in Ind. 235- 
A, Thursday, March 25 at 3:30. The 
panel discussion will be led by Pro­
fessors Miller, Chapman, and 
Schrickel on the topic of “Problems” 
of Post-War Planning.”
Basketball! Via the W. A. A.
Ever see a girl’s basketball game? 
Well, here is your chance. This Fri­
day at 3:30, the W. A. A. basketball 
team plays a team of girls from P. C.
iBk
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS 
rSRpMa
$3.00 per
1 m Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320
644 LIBERTY AVENUE ^ I
W. Come on, students, let’s give our 
team some moral support.
I. R. C. Meets
The third in the series of discus­
sions on the “United Nations” will 
be held Tuesday 12:30, M. M.-112, 
Madge Hysong, S. W. ’43, will lead 
the discussion on the topic “What 
are the United Nations fighting 
for?” All girls are invited to come 
and discuss, on the “United Na­
tions,” of course.
UndergTaduate Mathematics Club
The C. I. T. Undergraduate Math­
ematics Club will hold its sixth 
meeting of the current year on Fri­
day, March 26, at 3:30 in Room 135-
C, Industries Hall. Mr. Harold C. 
Schweinler, a junior in the Depart­
ment of Chemistry, will speak on 
the interesting and intriguing sub­
ject “DETERMINANTS AND MA­
TRICES.” All students and faculty 
members who are interested are 
cordially invited to attend the meet­
ing.
Students Eligible In 
War Bond Play Contest
Any particularly brilliant people 
or up-and-coming playrights who 
are students in college are now be­
ing offered the chance of a life-time 
to win the Treasury Special Award 
of Merit for distinguished service to 
the War Savings Program by 
writing plays. The secret of this 
latest idea in war activities is a 
play contest being sponsored by the 
Women’s Section of the War Sav­
ings Staff of the Treasury, the plays 
to concern war bonds and the people 
who buy them.
The scripts will be judged locally 
at first by the heads of the drama 
departments, and the winning entry 
of each school will be sent to the 
Chief of Special Activities of the 
Women’s Section, Mrs. Henry Mor- 
ganthou, Jr. Thereupon the scripts 
will come up against a panel of four 
judges who will pick the winning 
plays. This final committee will be 
headed by Margo Jones of the De­
partment of Drama of the Univer­
sity of Texas, and will include Mrs. 
Morganthou, Hallie Flanagan Davis 
of Smith and Barrett H. Clark of 
the Dramatists’ Play Service.
As mentioned before, the writers 
of the winning plays, to be an­
nounced on May 15th, will receive 
the Treasury Special Award of 
Merit, and the scripts will be made 
available to non-commercial theater 
groups on request. The contest 
closes on April 10, and all entries 
must be submitted by April 10.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT-------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
arnegie students daily 
Ji pass by the little 
frame building known 
p as Skibo that reeks of
atmosphere and french fries. Some 
go in to relax and many to eat; but 
most of them know nothing of its 
rich history, that is almost as inter­
esting as the castle in Scotland 
from which its name was taken.
The first semblance of the modern 
Skibo was erected when two archi­
tecture students saw the necessity 
of building an eating place near the 
location where the men’s dormitor­
ies were to be built. Unfortunately, 
however, the two budding architects 
and businessmen were called to the 
colors in 1917.
Skibo then came under the own­
ership of a young lady in the Paint­
ing and Design Department, who 
bought it for one thousand dollars. 
The transaction turned out to be a 
gigantic business enterprise; for be­
fore long the tiny shack was so 
swamped by soldiers living on the 
campus that the girl’s father had to 
take over his daughter’s miniature 
mint. He added new sections to 
Skibo and hired a body of students 
to aid him in carrying on the busi­
ness.
Since that time the small wooden 
beanery has passed through many 
hands; and now it is owned by the 
genial Charles Fortier, who bought 
it four years ago.
There are many amusing in­
cidents that have taken place within 
and about the walls of Skibo; and 
the following episode is one which 
lingers in the memories of the Car­
negie men of ’31 who rue the night 
which saw—a stag dance at a Pitts­
burgh jail for 117 students.
On one of those beautifully clear 
Pittsburgh evenings, a group of 
loyal energetic Carnegie students 
held a pep rally for the football 
game with Pitt on the following day 
and built a huge bonfire very close 
to Skibo. As the flames were begin­
ning to threaten the wooden build­
ing, the owner called the fire depart­
ment to put out the blaze. With the 
fire department came the police de­
partment to be greeted with a vari­
ety of missies thrown by the stu­
dents. Very much infuriated by this 
assault, the police swarmed into the
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
------is------
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Pittsburgh To Be Test 
City For War Drive
A great deal has been said re­
cently about aiding the men in serv­
ice by sending letters, gifts, and 
newspapers. And this attitude is, of 
course, most noteworty. The pre­
valence of such talk however should 
not cause us to forget another very 
large group, even more deserving 
of aid: the war prisoners in Axis- 
Controlled concentration camps.
There is no great important way 
in which we can help them but this 
fact should make us all the more 
anxious to help in some small way.
The Prisoners’ Aid Committee has 
been carrying on excellent work in 
forty-eight nations including Ger­
many, Occupied France, the Far 
East Great Britain, and the United 
States, despite turns in the tides of 
battle.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Roches­
ter, New York, and New Haven, 
Connecticut have been selected by 
the Committee as test cities in 
which to carry on drives which will 
determine whether or not the cam­
paign will be conducted nationally.
Before going any further, let us» 
state that this is not an appeal for 
money. The purpose of the drive is 
to obtain used musical instruments 
and athletic equipment that may 
now be use uselessly gathering dust 
in household attics.
Collection centers will be set up 
at positions to be announced later; 
the drive will continue only three 
days, April 1-3, so it behooves every­
one of us to start searching right 
away in our cellars, attics, and clos­
ets for something the scrap drives 
and our kid brothers have left.
--------ON THE RECORD---------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will present the fol­
lowing phonograph recital:
Violin Concerto..............Beethoven
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of the fol­
lowing program:
First Symphony...................Mahler
men’s dormitories and brought back 
to the jail 117 reluctant students. 
Gloomy was their repentance, in­
deed; for they spent the next day 
in a cell while Carnegie Tech was 
playing its annual football game 
with Pitt.
At present, there are no two peo­
ple on campus who come more into 
personal contact with the student 
body than Charlie and Emilie. They 
are as beloved as they are famous. 
They have a campus tradition rank­
ing as high in Carnegie Tech’s color­
ful history as the Kilties or A1 Mi- 
netti who incidentally hold places 
of honor in Skibo’s murals painted 
by Jane Huth ’39. If you want to see 
Charlie glow, just ask him about 
Charlie, Jr., the brand new heir to 
the Skibo fortune.
This is but a small part of Skibo's 
story; but I feel a pang for a ham­
burger, french fries, and a coke as 
only Skibo’s Lulabelle can make 
’em.
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

^ you MWUN UTI
RANGER-CAMELS 
HAVE GOT WHAT 
IT TAKES !
£.y,- ;
ITS CAMELS 
WITH ME_I LIKE 
THAT EXTRA 
MILDNESS AND FULL FLAVOR
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 
Winston-Salem. North Carolina
ÏÜÈSDAY, MARCH 2È, Ì943THÉ CARNEGIE TARTAN
CIT English Teacher 
Featured In Magazine
Gladys Schmitt, author, editor, 
native of Pittsburgh, and teacher of 
English at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, is the subject of a bio­
graphical sketch in the March issue 
of Current Biography (out March 
15), the illustrated monthly publi­
cation of the H. W. Wilson Com­
pany.
Miss Schmitt, who has come into 
literary prominence since the ap­
pearance of her prize-winning 
novel, The Gates of Aulis, was born 
in Pittsburgh, in 1909, Current Bio­
graphy reports. After graduating 
from college she joined the staff of 
Scholastic magazine, going to New 
York in 1937, with her husband, 
Simon Goldfield, a musician. But 
“she infinitely prefers Pittsburgh 
to New York, and after the success 
of her book she resigned her posi­
tion on Scholastic and returned to 
her home town.”
“The tall, thin, dark novelist is at 
present engaged in teaching English 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and in writing another novel, a life 
of King David, of Israel.”
Only newsworthy people appear 
in this Wilson publication which is 
subscribed to by the Library of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
ACROSS THE CUT
By Marty Gross
A Hexed Plot
It was 11:30 on a cold, cold morn. 
Student mathematicians plodded in­
to their calculus room, 135 Indus­
tries, which is flush with the campus 
walk. Students donned their coats, 
hats, mufflers and gloves as the cold 
morning breeze blew through fully 
open windows, transoms and a 
wide ajar door. Glee filled their 
cold hearts as they realized the 
amusing picture a freezing calculus 
instructor would make. Dr. Mosko- 
vitz strode in, dressed in an exceed­
ingly thin and dapper grey suit. 
The sight of his students dressed for 
the Russian front astonished him, 
but dauntlessly he continued the 
lesson. But integration was now of 
no interest to conniving mathema­
ticians whose plot had fallen 
through. A suffering, now-blue stu­
dent finally screamed “I’m freez­
ing,” ran up and shut all the. win­
dows.
Scotch-Irish
Entrenched Carnegie Scotch tra­
dition received quite a set-back this 
Saint Patrick’s Day, as disloyal Car­
negie Clansmen strode into the 
beanery strutting green bow ties. 
“The Wearing of the Green” will not 
be tolerated in the Carnegie Clan.
Joyous freshmen smiled in their 
two-hour Signal Corps class when 
Captain Layton excused them from 
the first hour of recitation. After 
offering profuse thanks, the walk­
ing code-books strode into the warm 
afternoon sun and thence into the 
beanery, where they gloated over 
their fortunate experience. 3:28 saw 
the prompt soldiers stride back into 
their room, where they presented 
Captain Layton with a luscious ice­
cream cone. They laughed internal­
ly as the dapper Captain sucked on 
a vanilla cone the rest of the period.
Foolhardy Prof 
The homework assignment was 
the integral of (sin x) to the Vz pow­
er. After putting in three to four 
hours on its solutions, the students 
complained that it was especially 
difficult. But one budding genuine 
claimed to have done it. After 
spreading his solution over every 
available board, he was politely in­
formed that he was all-wet. The in­
tegral was reassigned the following 
day—and so on into the week. It was 
an enraged audience that was laugh­
ingly informed by the instructor 
that the integration was impossible. 
They will attempt to recover his 
body from the Ohio presently.
Freshman To Represent 
CIT In Oratory Contest
Last Thursday, March 18, Don­
ald M. Goodfellow, Stuart W. Chap­
man, and Russel Bowars selected 
the winning oration for the Jeffer­
son Day contest. They, as judges of 
the Contest, sat in 235-A, Indus­
tries Hall, and listened to the pre­
sentation of each speaker with due 
thought. Finally, as the weighty 
words settled, these judges an­
nounced that John Cyhler Stephen­
son was the winner, and he will 
represent Carnegie Institute of 
Technology at the college finals held 
in the Stephen Foster Memorial 
Hall on March 30.
Mr. Stephenson, a Westinghouse 
Scolarship student, and 4.00 factor 
man, is a freshman in the Metal­
lurgy Department. He is an honor 
graduate of Davis High School in 
Mount Vernon, New York, where 
he was very active. He was presi­
dent of the school Debating Society 
and a winner of an American Le­
gion medal for a speech on a patri­
otic topic.
The title of each oration was Jef­
ferson. Thus, individual handling 
decided the winner. Stephenson’s 
method showed Jefferson’s stand 
for Freedom of Religion as it af­
fected all of the other Freedoms.
IN THE RANGERS
say: th:e
"CAT CRAWL"
for an advance hugging the ground
BUSHMASTERS"
for Rangers trained in the Caribbean 
area for tropic jungle-fighting
II99MINSTREL SHOW
for an attack at night with 
faces blacked up
‘CAMEL'
for the Army man's favorite 
cigarette
F/RSr/N THE SERWCE
The favorite cigarette with men in the 
I Army, Navy, Marines, and Coast Guard is T 
hamel. (Based on actual sales records in 
Post Exchanges and Canteens.)
The "T-Zone
—where cigarettes are 
judged
The “T-ZONE“—Taste and Throat
— is the proving ground for ciga­
rettes. Only your taste and throat can decide which 
cigarette tastes best to you...and how it affects your 
throat. For your taste and throat are absolutely indi­
vidual to you. Based on the experience of millions 
of smokers, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!

---------------------------------------------------

0THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943
Mar H di G Wh i is MO s
ir Vol.36N2AND
' THE THRILL OF THE EVEN- 
ING at Guild Dance was when our 
own Billie Sommerfield wowed ’em 
by singing As Time Goes By with 
the orchestra. What’s more, the vo­
calist is going into the service, and 
the band leader asked Billie for her 
phone number, please, just in case.
SPEAKING OF BIG TIME OP­
ERATORS—we’ll just mention Do­
lores Roscoe, one of the most de­
licious blonde dishes we’ve seen in 
years. She hit the Ice Follies with 
Eddie Anderson, Military Ball with 
Dick Hudson, and will be at the 
Sing and Swing with Paul Castner. 
Watch for her . . . And then there’s 
Jim Boyce, seen around with Peggy 
Glenn, Marge Maddox, etc . . .
THEY NEVER ARE LONE AND 
BLUE ... We mean Helen Robin­
son, at Guild Dance with Bob Cul­
bertson and Military Ball with Dave 
Edgecomb. And Patty Werner, at 
the same places with Jimmy Balmer 
and Bob Galbraith. To say nothing 
about Weezie Zonge at “Porgy and 
Bess” with Bob Pogue,, and Mil Ball 
with Jay Corbett.
IT WAS A BIG WEEKEND for 
the Alumni. First A1 Burton came 
down and took Janet Armstrong to 
Military, and then we saw A1 Mc- 
Clung and Ruth Hogg there, too.
THESE TWO-TIMIN’ WOMEN! 
There’s Ruthie Means who has Delt
brothers Jimmy Braden and Bill 
Robinson in a dither. And Mary Lou 
Egan who is doing the same in the 
Beta House with Bob Whiteside and 
Fred Rousseau. Anyway, these boys 
date Stretch McKee and Barb Lind- 
strom in the meantime.
BACK TOGETHER AGAIN are 
Gary Lawrence and Dottie Oxen- 
heart. Also Dottie Stauff and Fred 
Corey.
JUST WHEN WE WERE GET­
TING POSITIVE of that Mary 
Forman-Johnny Lindberg combina­
tion, she shows up at Military with 
Joe Clark. Which all goes to prove 
that the life of a columnist ain’t as 
rosy as it sounds. Besides that, we 
have gals like Scottie Atkinson to 
cope with. Guild, Bob Galbraith; 
“Porgy” and Bess,” Don French; 
Military, A1 Sullivan. Oh, well, we 
love it.
THERE’S SOME CONSOLATION 
in seeing a few who know what 
they’re doing—like Hugh Smith and 
Marty Sekey, and Helen Jaffurs and 
Spinks Spangler. To say nothing of 
Lucille Kleber and Virgil Cantini, 
and those zany originators or the “R 
Club” Spookie Phipps and Penn 
Griffen.
THEY’RE IN AGAIN! Of course 
we mean the D. U.’s in quarantine 
with the measles! Only this time the 
lucky victim is Frank Showman.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY »Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Dots Vi* Dashes
by Dot Greiner
What is so rare as a nervous 
break-down, unless it’s an ill-cooked 
steak? Said malady comes upon one 
with the fury of a Barney Ross left 
jab, and in both cases the results 
are the same—total black-out. How­
ever, there is one very encouraging 
feature in a nervous break-down 
case, and it is not to be made light 
of by hypochondriacs of either sex; 
here is one sure way to lose weight. 
For no money down, one can reduce 
to will-o-the-wisp size without en­
during the fortune of back-breaking 
exercises. The entire procedure con­
sists merely of one hot flash follow­
ed by a cold chill after which the 
pounds begin to drop off like but­
ter sales. Enter, the doctor, who 
after eight years of medical educa­
tion and many years of experience 
surveys the situation and with a 
fanfare and a flourish prescribes vit­
amin B. After that there’s nothing 
else to do but sit around and wait 
for deterioration to set in. The pre­
requisite is simply enrollment in 
this h’yar institution.
Recently a puzzled and disgrun­
tled co-ed confronted this reporter 
with a complaint about members of 
the strong sex. “Why, oh why,” she 
lamented, “do they date you Satur­
day night and then look down their 
noses at you Monday in the Bean­
ery?” Well, frankly, my friend, that 
is not an easy question to answer 
sans the cold, lurid facts. Could it be 
that Saturday night’s glamour has 
turned into the ring—around Mon­
day morning’s wash basin, or does 
the blame lie on the heads of the 
men? The answer to that problem is 
of course everyone’s personal prob­
lem, but the facts still remain about 
the noses, and no doubt something 
should be done to clear them up— 
the facts, not the noses, we mean. 
It’s up to the men, Beanery Lab 
students in particular, to be a 
little more careful about topping 
the brush cut to last week-end’s 
date just to keep up morale 
on the home front. This week’s 
polite move may be next month’s 
box of cookies — and all that 
sort of rot. Puleez, fellas, don’t be 
like the soldier visiting Pittsburgh 
who made himself extremely un­
popular with the gals when he was 
heard to say, “Pittsburgh is just full 
of sights, and I was certainly out 
with one of them Saturday night.” 
Our co-ed asks you to HAVE A 
HEART!
A recent letter from one of our 
boys at Ft. Belvoir contained a 
poignant plea for more news about 
the Alma Mater—in short, more let­
ters. They haven’t exactly been neg­
lected during the past four months, 
but they ask us to remember that 
while time flies for us, it really 
drags itself out for them. That fa­
miliar quotation about “a word to 
the wise” would fit in right about 
now; some of us who were friends 
with such former Tech students as 
Roger Loper, Joe Campbell, A1 
Parthum, Ted Burtis, Fritz Morgan, 
Arnold Petrovitch, and haven’t been 
on our toes about dropping them an 
occasional line or two should get out 
the writing pad and start to work. A 
little bit of effort on our part would 
certainly be appreciated by the sol­
diers. (Paid advertising).
A fine piece of work is being done 
at C. I. T. by those in charge of the
Dramats To Produce 
Social Satire, ‘Fashion’
“Fashion,” an early American 
satire, will be the Drama School’s 
next Little Theatre production. 
First produced in 1845, “Fashion” is 
a social parody on the American 
newly-rich. Written by Anna Cora 
Mowatt, who also played the lead­
ing role in the original production, 
it was enthusiastically received by 
the theatrical world of that period. 
Edgar Allen Poe, then a dramatic 
critic on a New York newspaper, de­
scribed it as a naturalistic and com­
pletely true-to-life picturization. 
Miss Morris, Drama School director, 
played the leading role, that of Ger­
trude, the daughter, in the revised 
version produced by the Province- 
town Theatre in 1924.
The Drama School production is 
completely adapted from that of the 
1924 version, except for the addition 
of several musical numbers. Among 
the period songs of the middle nine­
teenth century that have been add­
ed are, “Call Me Pet Names, Dear­
est,” and “Not for Joe,” which will 
be rendered by Joe Dolin.
Milton Levine, a music student, 
has arranged and will coach all the 
musical numbers. Mike Sivy and 
Bill Myers will play the role of 
Colonel Howard, an English digni­
tary. Elsie Cox and Jenny Lou Law 
portray the role of Mrs. Tiffany, 
while Eddie Edmonds and A1 Chec- 
co will play Mr. Tiffany, the head of 
this nouveau-riche family. Ger­
trude, the leading role, will be por­
trayed by Alice Morgan and Jean 
Layton.
The last production of the second 
semester, “Fashion” will run from 
April 9 to 17.
Spring Carnival . . .
Continued, from page 1
pin cushions—any knicknack that
won’t weigh you down. Make it
foolish and make it colorful.”
It has always been the tradition at 
the costume balls that have been held 
here in the past, for each fraternity, 
sorority, or other similar organiza­
tions, to appear in outfits of a com­
mon design. It is hoped that this cus­
tom will be revived at the 1943 Spring 
Carnival.
On Saturday afternoon, the regular 
Call Day and coronation of the Cam­
pus Queen will be held. After a con­
cert by the Kiltie Band, another com­
petition of, as yet, undisclosed nature, 
will be run.
The regular big dance of Spring 
Carnival will be held on Saturday 
night, April 10th. At the present 
early date, the band has not yet been 
named. Nevertheless, the committee 
guarantees that the orchestra will be 
a big name band.___________________
collection of pennies — naturally in 
exchange for equivalent coins. Our 
government has made an urgent call 
for these tokens because of their 
copper content, believing that if 
enough pennies can be massed to- 
.gether, a vital contribution to the 
war effort will be effected. In their 
place have come the steel pennies 
which are not as great in intrinsic 
value, but which are playing an im­
portant part by coming into circula­
tion as a substitute coin. Their sim­
ilarity to a dime is remarkable, if 
not spectacular. Our obligation is 
to make certain that all of our 
available coppers are turned into 
the hands of the committee in 
charge.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
SKI BO SPORTLIGHT
Spring Varsity Sports Delayed 
By Don French, Sports Editor —
Apparently the spring Varsity sports have succumbed to the expedit­
ed program this semester. Mr. Overend reports that there will be no com­
petition until the beginning of the third or summer semester. The reasons 
for this are obvious: There remains but a few weeks before the current 
semester is over, consequently the time element enters in as does the prob­
lem of inclement weather at this time of the year. It is anticipated, how­
ever, that practice will commence this semester so that those who are fair­
ly certain that they will be in school during the summer will be able to get 
in shape for the season beginning immediately after school recommences. 
The track schedule required no change since no meets were planned be­
fore the middle of May. Tennis and golf schedules are in the process of be­
ing drawn up with the competition being with schools within a radius of 
fifty miles.
Softball League Formed
Although it was reported last week that there would be no official 
Softball league this semester, it seems some independent teams have got­
ten together and formed a five team league. Tentatively, this group is com­
posed of Citcom, Zoot-Suits, Phi Kaps, PiKA’s, and a mixed team. Cer­
tainly there are other groups that would be interested in forming another 
league similar to the one just mentioned, especially since there will be no 
varsity sports this semester. If so, they should get together and form a 
league of their town, and possibly a playoff could be arranged between 
the two or more groups.
Alexander Coaches 
Wrestling Team
The mentor of our Tech Wrestling 
team, Coach Cecil Alexander, is a 
native of Brandon Hills, Manitoba— 
just a country boy says he of him­
self. The Coach came to the United 
States in 1922 and in 1926 started on 
his wrestling career as a protege of 
Arthur Brown, former Olympic 
champion of 1924. His wrestling 
experience was obtained mostly at 
the Westinghouse Club in Wilkins- 
burg where he was a member along 
with Mr. Brown. In the following 
years, he wrestled in Western Penn­
sylvania and was a Medalist in 1934- 
35 and 1937. In the past few years 
he has participated in many of the 
community programs around Pitts­
burgh such as the Community Fund 
Drive.
Many times he has had the sat­
isfaction of knowing that boys he 
has coached have won a place for 
themselves in the wrestling world. 
He remarks that this is one of his 
most profound pleasures to find out 
that a boy he has formed and 
moulded to become a good wrestler 
has made a name for himself. A re­
sult of his efforts is found in a stu­
dent of two years ago. Walter Reed, 
who is now in Detroit and partici­
pating in the Senior meets there 
with, good possibility of taking a 
championship. It is interesting to 
note that the Coach has proteges all 
over the country from California to 
New York.
Although Coach Alexander has 
only been at Tech for three seasons 
he has done a fine job in building 
up a team that is strong but inex­
perienced. One thing that he would 
like to see and that is more interest 
in the Tech wrestling program. Let’s 
give our support.
Foul Shooting To Be 
Held In Gym This Week
Tuesday, March 23, a relatively 
unknown sport will take place in 
the Carnegie Gymnasium. In past 
years the number of men interested 
in this activity has not been suf­
ficient to warrant its appearance, 
but this year a number of teams 
have entered, and the Intramural 
Board has decided to hold a foul 
shooting contest for campus organ­
izations.
James Alderdice, a member of the 
Board, is chairman of the committee 
appointed to carry this sport 
through . Most of the organizations 
on campus have entered teams, and 
the winner will be awarded a cup, 
signifying their superiority.
It has been planned to complete 
the contest in one evening, and a 
schedule of teams participating has 
been placed on the gymnasium 
board. Each team is composed of 
four men, who will throw 25 shots 
each, making a total of 100 shots per 
team. At the end of the shooting the 
team with the greatest number of 
baskets made will be declared the 
winner.
The rules of competition are very 
simple, the only ones necessary be­
ing those which state that stepping 
over the line during the throwing is 
prohibited and the members of each 
team must be a member of the or­
ganization for which he is partic­
ipating, according to the rules of 
eligibility of the Intramural Board. 
Also this contest will be included in 
the awarding of the all-Points Tro­
phy.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
I See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Intramural Swimming 
To Start Immediately
Intramural swimming will begin 
Wednesday afternoon, and although 
the schedule has not been announc­
ed as yet, it should be posted by the 
time you read your TARTAN. The 
events will be the same as last year, 
namely: 100 yard free style relay of 
four men, 25 yard free style, 50 yard 
free style, 50 yard breast stroke, 50 
yard back stroke, and diving.
Also the rules of eligibility are 
largely the same, with the excep­
tion that all men who received 
neither numerals nor letters from 
varsity competition are considered 
eligible. This includes those men 
who were out for the team but fail­
ed to receive their numerals or let­
ters. Also previously it was neces­
sary that each man who wished to 
swim must have had six practice 
hours in before the time of competi­
tion, but because of the shortness of 
time this year, the Physical Educa­
tion Department has decided that 
no practices will be necessary for 
those men who are participating 
regularly in scheduled swimming 
classes. However, for those men not 
in swimming classes now it will be 
necessary for them to have four 
practice hours completed.
It v/as feared that there would not 
be enough interest shown to make 
it worth while to have swimming 
this year, but upon the arrival of 
the entries, it was proven that the 
contrary holds true. Perhaps the 
explanation of this lies in the fact 
that the armed services are putting 
great emphasis on this sport. The 
submarine menace makes it import­
ant that every soldier and sailor, 
actual and potential, knows how to 
swim, and there is no better way to 
learn than in a safe pool with com­
petent instructors, such as those 
present in our own gymnasium.
Final Bowling Standings 
League I
Beta Sigma Rho .................................16- 2
Citcom “B” ..........................................16- 2
McGill Hall...........................................12- 6
Pi Kappa Alpha..................................10- 8
Beta Theta Pi....................................... 7- 8
Kappa Sigma........................................ 7-11
Tau Delta Phi ....................................... 6-12
Boss Hall ............................................... 2-13
Alpha Tau Omega............................... 2-16
League II
Delta Tau Delta ...................................20- 1
Citcom “A” ............................................16- 5
Delta Upsilon ........................................ IS- 8
Phi Kappa ...........................................10-11
Theta Xi................................................ 9-12
Sigma Nu.........................• •................. 8-13
Scobell Hall........................................... 6-15
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........................ 3-18
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL. 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMBIR FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Citcom A, McGill Battle 
For League I Champs; 
Citcom B Outstanding
Spring, downing on us by the day, 
has practically killed all indoor 
competition on our campus, well al­
most. With fever running high over 
the coming Bat an’ Ball campaign, 
the indoor intramural leagues have 
slowly capitulated to a state where 
only one team came out of the re­
cent Volleyball scrimishes unscat­
tered and undefeated, Citcom B.
As the winners of League II they 
are awaiting the “outcome” of the 
game between Citcom A and McGill 
Hall to decide the belated champion 
of league I. It all started and seem­
ed to end when one Michael Angelo 
Capobianco, a sturdy citizen of Ak­
ron, Ohio, and who is known by his 
intimate friends as “Big Cap,” was 
declared ineligible as a Citcom com- 
peter because, as some of the boys on 
the other side of the fence said, he 
ain’t no Citcom man. That action 
made Citcom A the loser in their 
match with Delta Upsilon even 
though they earned a hard fought 
victory over them 2-0. It also left 
the men from McGill Hall at the top 
of the heap much to the latter’s sur­
prise. Things cleared up a bit in the 
next outing as McGill “was put 
wise” and shelacked by Citcom A, 
minus Capobianco and Ralph “Spik- 
er” Sill, 21-1, 21-4. The scrappy DU 
outfit missed their signals some­
where and “Johnny come lately” 
team from the SAE mansion. All 
these events (you’re following me, 
of course) brought out the fact that 
Citcom B will probably play Cit­
com A for the school’s championship 
in the very near future.
Both teams, to reach their pres­
ent pinnacle, had rough going and 
credit goes to all those that came 
out every Tuesday and Thursday 
and did more damage to their vocal 
cords through shouting than to their 
hands through retrieving the wildly 
flung “sphere.” Many good teams 
were witnessed, outstanding in par­
ticular were the PiKA’s, Kappa 
Sigs, Beta’s, McGill Hall, and the 
DU’s just to mention a few.
As an anti-climax, a few other 
games took place to decide the final 
standing of the clubs with these re­
sults: the Kappa Sigs beat the
ATO’s 2-0, but lost to the champions, 
Citcom B, 2-1. It was an exciting 
game with the outcome uncertain 
until the final point.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1943Càmere plaid
Irish Ire Culminates 
In Orange Waterloo 
At Shamrock Social
Shure, and begorra, and a fine 
time was had by all! Yes indeed, 
you can say that in Gaelic, Polish, 
Brooklynese, or what have you, and 
it still means the same—the Sham­
rock Social at the Student Union 
was a gee-rate success. But then, 
how could it have helped be any­
thing but slightly terrific, when you 
consider that there was ping pong, 
dancing, roulette (who do I see 
about getting my shirt back?), 
cards, refreshments and prizes all 
under one roof and all for the one 
admission price.
Supplying the music for the danc­
ing were practically all of America’s 
“name” orchestras, featuring music 
which ranged from the ultra smooth 
on up to the boogie beat, with the 
accent on the fox trots and sophis­
ticated rhythms. The floor was 
filled all evening long, but the other 
amusements helped divert part of 
the throng and kept it from getting 
over-crowded.
Taking a tip from the last Council 
Dance, each girl was requested to 
write her name on her “Shamrock 
Corsage.” After the corsages were 
placed in a hat, the male members 
present were permitted to draw out 
a shamrock. The male then intro­
duced himself and danced with his 
“lucky choice.” This idea is a new 
one and one which is going over 
very well as it permits everyone to 
become acquainted.
The refreshments, which as usual 
consisted of punch, pretzels, potato 
chips, etc., were plentiful, and were 
responsible for a continued conges- 
gestion in the dinette all evening 
long.
The evening ended with everyone 
gathering in the living room, where 
the prizes were awarded to the va­
rious contestants. Then came the 
drawing for the two door prizes, and
after------ ------ and ------ ------ were
presented with these, the party 
broke up, and everyone wended 
their way home—or somewhere.
Former Voice Student Is 
Lt. Army Nurse In Africa
Mary Louise Hiller, a former Tech 
Student, now proudly wears the in­
signia of Lieutenant in the U. S. 
Army. Miss Hiller enlisted as an 
Army Nurse in April, 1942 and 
reached England last October. She 
was among the first group of nurses 
^o reach North Africa.
Lt. Hiller is a graduate of St. Ra­
phael High School and St. Joseph’s 
Hospital School of Nursing and a 
member of the Catholic Theater 
Guild. She was a night student at 
Tcch, enrolled in the Voice and 
Speech Class.
A wish for her good health and 
safety is extended over the many 
miles to this courageous young lady.
Council Minutes
Meeting was held in the Carnegie 
Union on Sunday, March 7, 1943.
Attending this meeting were 
Misses Mary J. Weber and Mary 
Hensler from the College of Indus­
tries and Miss Marion Frost from 
the College of Fine Arts. This is in 
accordance with a new plan of 
Council’s to have active students at­
tend Council meetings as college 
representatives to acquaint them 
with, and further their interest in 
Council Activities.
Mr. Macha reported progress in 
attempts of standardizing the Hand­
book. Under this plan, students 
who previously received hand­
books would not receive them 
again. New students would receive 
the standardized book. To take 
care of the information that changes 
each year, a 10 to 20 page supple­
ment would be printed and distrib­
uted at registration. This would in­
clude the school and social calendar 
and other changes.
Budgets for the Washington Birth­
day Dance and the St. Patrick’s Day 
Party were presented by Mr. Flan­
ders and accepted by Council.
Mr. Marcinizyn appointed George 
Riffle, Vice President of Evening 
Student Council.
Much discussion centered about a 
plan to carry-over the outgoing 
President and Treasurer of Evening 
Student Council as advisers to 
Council for the following year. 
Council adjourned at 6:45 P. M.
Respectfully submitted,
EDW. A. MACHA, 
Council News Reporter.
Va *7/te CdUtosi
Several weeks ago the Plaid car­
ried a short article about the forth-' 
coming Engineers’ Banquet or 
Smoker. Since that time I have 
been patiently waiting to see the 
outcome of the problem at hand— 
Will it be Banquet or Smoker? 
There has been no announcement as 
to the final decision of the officers 
of Evening Engineering School; 
therefore, I am convinced that those 
responsible have been shirking their 
duty. Is Council going to sit aside 
and see this old tradition broken by 
not giving a banquet or some rea­
sonable facsimile of the same? If 
so, they should announce the deci­
sion to the Evening students for we 
do contribute to the support of this 
organization and it is our business 
to know what is going on. If a 
banquet or smoker is to be held this 
year, we students should be inform­
ed as to the approximate date so 
that we may make plans to attend.
Present existing conditions have 
made it necessary to highly adver­
tise for any social function. This is 
anotherj^eason for a rapid decision 
by the ^Engineering officers. The 
Plaid is the main means of publiciz­
ing any social activities on the cam­
pus, but if the news doesn’t break 
soon, the Plaid will have ceased 
publication for the summer; there­
fore, no free advertising will be 
available.
Will Council please take some ac­
tion on the subject and make every 
development known to the students.
R. K.
Navy’sV- Cement
by E. F. Harchelroad
Portland cement has been defined 
by the A. S. T. M. as “The product 
obtained by finely pulverizing clink­
er produced by calcining to incipi­
ent fusion an intimate and properly 
proportioned mixture of argilaceous 
and calcareous material with no ad­
ditions subsequent to calcination ex­
cept water and calcined or uncal­
cined gypsum.” After breaking 
down this formidable mouthful we 
shall see that it is not quite as com­
plicated as it looks.
The name “Portland” was given 
to cement by Joseph Aspdin of 
Leeds, England, in 1824 because the 
product much resembled the build­
ing stone which came from the Isle 
of Portland. The raw materials 
generally used in manufacturing 
modern portland cement are lime­
stone, clay or shale, and gypsum. 
Limestone is a calcareous material; 
clay and shale are argillaceous.
The limestone and clay or shale 
are first dried, then properly por­
tioned and ground until about 90 
per cent will pass through a 200- 
mesh sieve.
The raw material or “mix” as it 
is usually called is then delivered by 
means of screw conveyors to a ro­
tary kiln where it is burned into 
clinkers which range in size from a 
pea to a walnut. During the burn­
ing process the lime, silica, and iron 
in the raw mix are formed into the 
compounds tricalcium silicate, dical­
cium silicate, tricalcium aluminate, 
and etra calcium alumina ferite.
Upon leaving the kiln, the clinker 
is put through a cooler or simply 
stored in a cooling pit. When suffi­
ciently cool it is mixed with about 
three per cent of gypsum, which 
will later act as a retarder and con­
trol the setting time of the finished 
cement. The clinker and gypsum 
mixture is then pulverized until it 
will pass through a 200-mesh sieve, 
and the resulting product is cement 
ready for shipment.
One of the most interesting feat­
ures of a cement plant is the way 
in which the flour-like cement is 
packed into bags that are sewed on 
both ends before filling.
As I was passing through the Ad­
ministration Hall the other day, I 
noticed the huge service flag which 
hangs in the arch. In the center of 
this white flag is a large red star 
numeraled 1426 representing Car­
negie Tech students in our armed 
forces. Below this is a gold star 
marked 14 indicating the number 
from the above group who have 
been killed in action.
After I passed, I got to thinking— 
many of the night school students 
have left for the service and I won­
der whether they are getting proper 
recognition. Naturally, since they 
were students here on the Campus, 
that figure should include our boys 
—but does it?
You should know and I’m expect­
ing the answer from you. J. S.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of Ihe Day School staff.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King
Associate Editor of EngineeringJoseph M. Rymar
Associate Editor of IndustriesMary Jo Weber
Associate Editor of Fine ArtsMarion Frost 
StaffAlbert Flanders S. W. MarcinizynMary Hensler D. Pettigrew, Jr.John Hundertmark Pearl PettolaEdward A. Macha Robert PoznanskiRobert Bassett Albert Kersturkos
Three cheers for Messrs. Walker 
and Miller, two night school engi­
neering students who travel all the 
way from Butler three nights a 
week to attend classes. Considering 
how bitter the gas and tire situation 
is at the present time, we believe 
they are to be commended for their 
perseverance in the pursuit of 
knowledge . . . Newest way to ask a 
girl for a date “if you get tickets for 
the play on Wednesday, I’ll take 
you Marion”—ask Bob Bassett . . . 
We’re wondering if the soldier wan­
dering around the halls at Maggie 
Murph had anything to do with the 
hurried departure from class by 
Lorraine Stern—and an hour early 
at that . . . Maybe we can swell the 
attendance at the Wednesday swim 
by offering some inducement to the 
boys. Understand the two new mer­
maids, Virginia Gebhardt and Etta 
Mae Mohr, who attended last week 
are sorta cute . . . ’Tis rumored Sam 
Collin will get back his four missing 
choppers—better hurry—steak will 
soon be rationed . . . “Clair”—of Hy­
draulics, living up to his profession, 
has evolved a new definition for 
Vodka—just ask him . . . This week’s 
two dollar question: Has Bob King
been a bad boy? His wife showed 
up on Friday night, after a long ab­
sence, to keep a close check on him 
. . . Coincidence: There’s a Caro­
line Cook, voice student, and a Car­
oline Cook Noll on the Plaid staff 
. . . Funny that two of our staff call 
up with excuses about not being 
able to show up for last week’s work 
period. Could it be that A1 Flan­
ders is the friend from Texas Mary 
Jo had to entertain ... If the guy 
who sits next to Mary Jo Weber in 
the English Composition class 
doesn’t sit on his own chair there’s 
goin’ to be bloodshed we’re afraid 
. . . Recently promoted, First Lieu­
tenant Arnold Annex, a Navigator 
operating in North Africa, was one 
of the thirteen Pennsylvanians to 
receive a medal for the mass flight 
from England to North Africa ... In 
view of the fact that proud parents 
are having such a hard time getting 
“baby-watchers,” Council was seri­
ously considering a plan which 
would enable the married students 
to come “all out” for social affairs.
