THE TARTAN
Volume 86, Issue 3 Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 16 September 1991
• One of the campus’ old­
est student organizations 
celebrates 85 years of en­
tertainment.
See page LI.
• Catch the review of Cat­
fish Rising, Jethro Tull’s 
latest release.
See page Lll.
•The football and men’s 
soccer teams get their first 
wins this weekend.
See page 11.
•CMDS needs more 
change in food to satisfy 
students.
See page 7.
Inside
Classifieds..................14
T,fi
Diversions...................T ,7
Features......................T,1
fi
11
University Calendar....L12
Vox Populi..................Til 2
Tartan
wins
regional
By ERIN GUERYKE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Congratulations are in order 
for the 1990-91 staff of The 
Tartan for receiving a regional 
Pacemaker award. “The award 
is a tribute to the high level of 
excellence that The Tartan has. 
I’d also like to say it’s a tribute 
to all of the hard work that goes 
into the paper. It’s definitely an 
honor we can be proud of,” said 
Katie Culbertson, spring semes­
ter 1991 editor-in-chief.
The Tartan was one of 17 stu­
dent newspapers selected from 
over 80 publications submitted 
from across the country in the 
four-yéar non-daily category. 
Other contest categories include 
four-year daily and two-year 
campus publications. Final se­
lections are made by the Ameri­
can Newspaper Publishers As­
sociation and the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
Receiving the regional award 
qualifies The Tartan for compe­
tition in the National Pacemaker 
Award to be given at the Na­
tional College Media Conven­
tion on November 2, in Denver, 
Colorado. “The National Pace­
maker is the next step. The big 
prize is yet to come,” said Beth 
Moses, editor-in-chief of The 
Tartan. Other regional Pace­
maker winners from the east­
ern division include the student 
newspapers of Northeastern 
University, University of 
Cincinatti, and Western Ken­
tucky University.
Coverage, content, writing, 
and editing were key criteria for 
The Tartan’s Pacemaker suc­
cess. Other secondary criteria 
included opinion content, de­
sign, photography, and graph­
ics. Michael Rose (PW ’91), 1990 
Please see TARTAN, page 5
Thistle yearbook undergoes investigation
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Contributing Editor 
& MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Six counts of negligence were 
brought before Student Senate 
this week against The Thistle 
yearbook, in a disclosure by 
former Thistle Business Manager 
Ross Comer.
Among the allegations are that 
the 1990 Thistle is yet to be com­
pleted; the 1991 Thistle was tardy 
and incomplete; The Thistle lacks 
an election or screening proce­
dure for appointments to posi­
tions of leadership, including 
editor-in-chief; the editor-In- 
chief has the ability to set his or 
her own salary; and The Thistle 
significantly over-orders year­
books.
According to then-photography 
editor Rob Harris, “[The staff] 
left for the summer with the un-
derstandingthat the [1990] year- 1990 yearbook,” said Dean of ments, clubs, and sports were all
book would be completed over 
the summer. In the fall of 1990, 
The Thistle staff returned to find 
the 1990 yearbook unfinished, 
yet work began on the 1991 is­
sue; I was then informed that I 
was senior editor. Adam Gold­
smith [then editor] told us that 
he would take care of the 1990 
yearbook; we should concentrate 
on 1991.”
“Part of the problem with the
Jimmy Cliff jams to a packed Ballroom In Skibo on Friday.
Mars robot steps out for a walk
By RICH KWIATKOWSKE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Robot­
ics Institute showed off its six­
legged, twelve-foot-tall autono­
mous robot to the public by tak­
ing it out for a walk on Sunday. 
The Ambler, an acronym for Au­
tonomous Mobile Exploration 
Robot, is “unprecedented; noth­
ing resembles it in the robotic 
kingdom,” according to Eric 
Krotkov, a researcher in the 
Field Robotics Institute.
The Ambler is a prototype 
Mars probe capable of travers­
ing a hazardous terrain while 
collecting and analyzing 
samples of a planet’s geophysi-
cal, meteorological, and biologi­
cal conditions. The Ambler also 
has earth-bound applications, for 
example: construction, timbering, 
hazardous waste management 
and emergency response.
The Ambler project was started 
four years ago from a design by 
then graduate student John Bares 
and William “Red” Whittaker, 
director of the Field Robotics Cen­
ter. Since the Ambler's comple­
tion two years ago, the Ambler 
team has been concentrating on 
getting the robot to walk. “The 
first year the Ambler learned how 
to take steps, now it walks for 
long periods of time,” said Reid 
Simmons a researcher in the 
School of Computer Science.
Simmons went on to say that 
“Speed is not important; reliabil­
ity is important in a machine 
that will be on Mars for two or 
three years.”
The most unique feature of the 
Ambler is the way it walks. “The 
body is propelled in a motion 
similiar to cross country skiing,” 
said Whittaker. “A single leg 
reaches out in front of the others, 
places itself firmly on the ground 
like a ski pole and then pulls the 
machine foward.” The rover 
walks by itself, directed by an 
intricate system of cameras, la­
ser scanners, and on-board com­
puters.
According to Krotkov, the 
Ambler has two types of percep-
Student Affairs Mike Murphy, 
“was the theft of some yearbook 
equipment.” The stolen equip­
ment included an external hard 
drive, a tape drive for backups, 
and tapes.
Goldsmith agreed. “We [The 
Thistle staff] had until the end of 
July [of1990] to have everything 
in for the 1990 book," he said. 
“The seniors’ section, Spring Car­
nival, graduation, advertise-
stolen in the robbery; this was 
over fifty percent of the book. We 
had to get set-up all over again...,” 
said Goldsmith.
Comer stressed the seriousness 
of accusations, “This past week I 
submitted the disclosure to the 
Senate. Before I did this I veri­
fied a lot of facts,” he said. “I don’t 
take things like this lightly. So, 
on Monday I called Delmar [the 
Please see THISTLEj page 5
GSO kicks off 
reorganization
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With the election of new offic­
ers and revision of the constitu­
tion and fiscal policy, the Gradu­
ate Student Organization (GSO) 
has started its transition from a 
randomly organized funds dis­
tribution facility to an advocacy 
organization for graduate stu­
dents.
Last Wednesday, elections pro­
vided a new treasurer (Howard 
Read) and liaison (Lin Chase). 
Along with President Jennifer 
Trost and Vice President Kirsten 
Guss, the organization hopes to 
improve the quality of campus 
life for graduate students as well 
as involve itself more in the cam­
pus political processes.
Up until now, GSO has been 
relatively quiet, a result of disin­
terest due to time limitations of 
research and teaching obliga­
tions. Says Trost of the renewed 
interest of graduate students in 
GSO, “We have an influx of com­
mitted people who are trying to 
move toward a more high-profile 
position on campus.” Trost 
pointed out that there is no single 
graduate school or dean of gradu­
ate students. “GSO is hampered 
by the organization of this cam-
in the University.”
Several changes have already 
evolved in the GSO structure 
since last February, when Trost 
and Guss were elected. Disputes 
over price hikes in the Univer­
sity-endorsed graduate student 
health insurance program led to 
the formation of a GSO investi­
gation committee as well as at­
tention from Student Affairs and 
Provost Paul Christiano. A for­
malization of fiscal policy has 
clarified the distribution of funds 
that GSO receives from the Stu­
dent Senate, dividing the money 
between departments, organiza­
tions, and special events.
Examination of the GSO con­
stitution, last revised in 1981, 
proved it to be lacking in many 
areas. The revision reorganized 
some committees and creatod 
new ones, increased GSO repre­
sentation on campus, and 
changed sexist terms into neu­
tral ones. “We’re trying to get the 
organization to exist outside of 
personalities, to be independent,” 
said Trost.
Another goal of GSO is to in­
crease feelings of community 
among the graduate students. 
“GSO is starting to take on lead­
ership for centralization of gradu­
ate students,” said Chase. GSO
tion: passive and active percep­
tion. Passive pereption is basi­
cally a television camera that 
takes an image which is defined 
by light. The active vision is a 
laser scanner which determines 
the distance of objects in the way 
of the Ambler. These two types 
of pereption are combined to 
make a representation of the 
landscape so the Ambler can plan 
a route around obstacles..
The Ambler project reflects an 
ongoing ambition of the Na­
tional Aeronautics and Space 
Adminisration’s (NASA) to ex­
plore space. “It was mutual. 
NASA wants to explore space 
and [the Robotics Institute] lives, 
Please see ROBOT, page 5
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Carnegie Mellon’s Robotics Institute displays its Autonomous Mobile 
Exploration Robot, or AMBLER, designed to probe Mars.
Paramount Pictures Corporation 
Godfather III, starring Al Pacino plays in 
DH 2210 this Sunday. See page Lll for 
this week’s movie listings.
Fraternities win International awards
By MICHAEL KUNSMANN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
CMU’s Greek community is 
establishing a name on an inter­
national level. Alpha Epsilon Pi 
(AEPi) received the Edward and 
Francine Gold Jewish Commu­
nal Service Award from their 
international fraternity at the 
78th Annual AEPi convention, 
while Pi Lamda Phi (PiLam) 
earned the George A. Beck Out­
standing Chapter Award from 
their international organization.
This is the first year the 
George A. Beck trophy has been 
given out. It is the highest and 
most respected award of the In­
ternational PiLam Chapter and 
will add even more admiration 
to the CMU Greek community. 
Until this year, the highest Chap­
ter award was the Outstanding 
Operation award, which PiLam
has also received for the last two 
years.
AEPi received their accolade 
during their August AEPi con­
vention held in Chicago, attended 
by representatives from each 
Chapter in the U.S. and Canada. 
In addition to the EFGJCS- 
award, AEPi’s secretary, junior 
electrical and computer engineer­
ing major Adam Rudo, received 
the Outstanding International 
Scribe award. Such recognition 
reflects positively on the Greek 
system, according to junior ECE 
major Michael Chernoff, a 
brother at AEPi. “This gives a 
boost to Greek life on Campus,” 
he said.
Junior technical writing major 
Rich Kwiatkowski, a brother at 
PiLam, said their award came as 
a “complete surprise to every­
one.” Their annual Shoot Out, a 
flagfootball tournament between
many of the PiLam chapters, was 
a big plus, he said. Last year the 
22 PiLam chapters that partici­
pated raised $5,000 for United 
Cerebral Palsy. Two successful 
rushes in the past two years also 
helped their cause. Including all 
the input and help they have 
given the International Frater­
nity, this award does not come as 
such a surprise after all.
According to a press release 
issued by AEPi, “Throughout the 
past year, the chapter [has taken] 
advantage of an opportunity to 
sponsor a special interest house 
for Jewish students on campus, 
since the closest, Hillel, is not on 
CMU cam pus.... The chapter con­
tinues to sponsor the house, 
which is now called the Jewish 
Student Association (JSA)...” Al­
though the house is centered 
around Jewish interests, 
Please see AWARDS, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Frat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSbTHIS JUST IN...
Congress reconvenes, faces host of difficult issues
WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 (DJ) — Congress re­
turned from its summer vacation last week for 
what promised to be a rancorous fall session featur­
ing scrutiny of financial scandals and political con­
troversy over matters ranging from nominations 
for high office to the voracious cash demands of the 
thrift bailout and Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) re­
plenishment.
Any plans of ending the first session of the 102nd 
Congress in early October are long gone. The opera­
tive question now is whether the session will go to 
Thanksgiving or run well into December.
Pending are hearings into the BCCI and Salomon 
Brothers scandals; the nominations of Judge 
Clarence Thomas (Supreme Court), Robert Gates 
(CIA), William Taylor (FDIC), Robert Clarke (Comp­
troller of the Currency), and Alan Greenspan (Fed­
eral Reserve), among others; the demand for up to
$80 billion more in savings and loan rescue funds 
on top of the $80 billion already provided, as well as 
calls to restructure the thrift bailout bureaucracy; 
and the need to vote billions of dollars more to refill 
the depleted bank fund.
These items alone should put Congress on over­
load. And the rapid approach of the 1992 political 
season should do nothing to make things any easier.
Other matters awaiting Congress’s attention in­
clude major banking legislation to which the BIF 
recap measure currently is attached.
Next stop for the version of the bill approved by 
the Senate Banking Committee is the Senate floor.
Growing political partisanship, however, will not 
aid in passing a comprehensive bank bill this year. 
The BIF recap portion of the bill falls into the 
category of “must” legislation, and a BIF recap 
split-off has been a possibility from the start.
Thomas faces Congress on abortion issue
WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 
(AP) — Supreme Court nomi­
nee Clarence Thomas told the 
Senate Judiciary Committee 
Friday he never “endorsed or 
supported” an anti-abortion es­
say he once praised.
Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) 
asked Thomas whether he had 
reached the same conclusion as 
the essay that “all abortion is 
unconstitutional.”
Thomas responded, “I have 
not, nor have I ever endorsed or 
supported this conclusion.”
In a 1987 speech, Thomas 
called the essay “a splendid ex­
ample of applying natural law.” 
As Thomas began his fourth 
day of testifying before the com­
mittee, however, most of the 
questions did not deal with 
abortion.
Leahy seemed to surprise Tho­
mas when he asked the federal 
judge to list some Supreme Court 
decisions Thomas considered the 
most important of the past 20 
years.
Thomas named only Roe v. 
Wade, the 1973 decision legaliz­
ing abortion, and Griggs u. Duke 
Power, a 1971 civil rights ruling.
Asked by a key committee 
Democrat, Howell Heflin of Ala­
bama, to give greater insight into 
his political views, Thomas said, 
“I don’t know if I’d call myself an 
enigma. I’m just Clarence Tho­
mas. I’ve tried to do what my 
grandfather told me to do—stand 
up for what I believe in.”
When Leahy asked Thomas 
about government funding with 
strings attached, Thomas said he 
“would have deep concerns” over
goveriunent funding being tied 
to how people conduct their 
lives.
Asked by Senator Arlen 
Specter (R-Penn.) about his op­
position to such affirmative-ac- 
tion polices as hiring goals, 
Thomas said, “This is an issue 
that reasonable people can dis­
agree on.”
Thomas added that as chair- 
of the federal Equal Employ­
ment Opportunity Commission, 
he instead favored becoming 
“more intrusive in employers’ 
personnel matters” to assure 
compliance with civil rights 
laws.
Despite his personal views, 
Thomas said, the commission 
“did -use goals and timetables” 
in employment cases during his 
tenure.
N. Korea near developing nuclear weapons
SEOUL, South Korea, Sept. 13 (AP) — The first 
North Korean diplomat known to have defected to 
the South said today he believes North Korea is one 
or two years away from manufacturing nuclear 
weapons.
In a statement, the South Korean government 
said Friday that Ko Young Hwan, 38, defected 
because he was disenchanted with North Korea’s 
hard-line Communist system.
Ko, who had served as an interpreter to Commu­
nist leader Kim II Sung, most recently was a first 
secretary at the North Korean embassy in the 
Congo in Africa.
He secretly left his job in March and arrived in 
Seoul in May after traveling through an unspeci­
fied third country.
There was no immediate comment from North 
Korea.
Ko, at a news conference, said he decided to defect
Getting a big bill passed this year will be a major 
test of the Bush administration’s leadership and 
political skills.
Also on tap is another go-round on legislation to 
provide extended unemployment benefits. This time 
Congress will send President Bush a real bill, 
unlike the political mirage it sent him last month in 
the form of a bill that ostensibly could be embraced 
by all without delivering a cent of unemployment 
benefits.
Increased talk about tax “fairness” is expected 
from Democrats. In the realm of what is possible, 
veterans of the perennial tax wars see a likelihood 
of action before year’s end on some sort of tax bill 
which would include extensions of some, if not all, 
expiring tax benefits, despite statements all year 
from some key tax leaders that a bill this year is 
unlikely.
Legislation touted as enhancing the financial 
safety and soundness of the Federal National Mort­
gage Association and Federal Home Loan Mort­
gage Corp. has parsed the House Banking Commit­
tee and is expected to be cleared by the Senate1 
Banking Committee before the end of the month! 
Any such measure that may be enacted into laW 
this year probably won’t do much beyond give 
lawmakers “cover” by enabling them to claim they’ve 
dealt head-on with another potential problem.
A massive highway bill already approved by the 
Senate remains pending before the House, which 
set the measure aside before the summer recess 
due to controversy over a proposed gas tax increase. 
The gas tax proposal could disappear without a 
trace.
Action also must be completed on number ¿f 
appropriations bills.
Mitterrand seeks nuclear powers talks
PARIS, Sept. 11 (DJ) — French 
President Francois Mitterrand 
said there is a need for a meeting 
of the “four powers who have 
nuclear weapons in Europe.” 
These countries include France, 
the United Kingdom, the United 
States and the Soviet Union. The 
meeting objective is to discuss 
nuclear security in light of the 
changes in the Soviet Union.
Mitterrand, in a televised press 
conference, said such a meeting 
“appears to me indispensable at 
the soonest possible time.”
He said the situation in Mos-
cow has created “uncertainty,” 
and that the world needs word 
from Soviet and Russian leaders 
on “where their nuclear bombs 
are, and what control they’re un­
der.”
French President Francois Mit­
terrand also urged that the Euro­
pean Community and the Confer­
ence for Security and Coopera­
tion in Europe be vested with 
enhanced authority over Euro­
pean-wide security issues. “They 
need more power, more means” to 
act, he said.
Mitterrand said that while Eu-
ropean people demand more lib­
erty and political power, it is im­
perative that “common institu­
tions” are reinforced.
He said that such reinforcement 
is the only way to reconcile the 
opposite trends of “unity on the 
one hand, and dispersion on thé 
other.”
Mitterrand also encouraged 
other EC members to support the 
adoption of timetables and frame­
works for treaties of economic, 
monetary and political union, that 
France would like to see settled 
by the end of the year.
Soviet republics may form economic union
because he knew he was blacklisted and was about 
to be recalled for making critical remarks about 
communism in connection with the dramatic re­
forms that transformed Eastern Europe earlier 
and that are now remaking the Soviet Union.
“North Korean leaders regard nuclear weapons 
as the last means they can resort to to protect their 
system, and I think they are one or two years away 
from having one,” Ko said.
After a meeting with the Board of Governors of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, 
North Korean officials said yesterday their govern­
ment would not open its nuclear program to outside 
inspection.
North Korean officials cited the alleged presence 
of U.S. nuclear weapons in rival South Korea as a 
reason for their refusal to sign the safeguards in 
accord with the International Atomic Energy 
Agency.
MOSCOW, Sept. 11 (AP) — Russia and several 
other Soviet republics could agree on a new economic 
union within four to six weeks, the author of a draft 
union treaty said, as signs mounted that Russia 
might go it alone economically and deepen the loom­
ing catastrophe.
Ivan Silayev, the Russian Federation prime minis­
ter and head of what in effect is the Soviet transi­
tional government, announced he would quit the 
latter post Monday, the Interfax news agency said. 
The Tass news agency also reported the resignation, 
adding that no reasons were given and no replace­
ment named.
The announcement followed accusations at a meet­
ing of the Economic Management Committee set up 
after last month’s coup that Russia had usurped the 
rights of other republics in laying claim to what were 
national resources, Interfax said.
The report could not immediately be confirmed. 
But it suggested a widening rift between Russia—by 
far the largest, and in resources, the richest Soviet 
republic — and other neighboring regions over the 
economy.
One of Silayev’s deputies in the transitional gov­
ernment, radical market economist Grigory Yavlinsky, 
was meanwhile pushing his draft plan for a loose 
economic union, which he suggested is the only way
to stave off complete economic collapse, mass 
unemployment, poverty, and social unrest.
He indicated living standards might drop by up 
to 20 percent and unemployment rise to 15 per: 
cent if the 12 Soviet republics and newly indepen­
dent Baltic states accept his proposals.
The alternative, he stressed, wouldbe far worse: 
chaos as republic leaders vie to protect their 
resources; different price structures, tax systems; 
and possibly currencies; and no aid from a West 
uncertain with whom to deal.
“Economic union is not a choice, it is rather 
necessity,” Yavlinsky told a news conference.
Yavlinsky is urging the republican leaders to! 
agree to his union for the next five years, regulat-; 
ing economic matters through a committee com­
posed of representatives from all participating 
republics, maintaining a single currency and; 
central bank and an body of arbitration to help, 
settle problems which may arrive from the new 
union.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc. 
Layout by 
Matt Adler
- %/ || APhiO would like to thank and inform theI nSiHiM Carnegie Mellon community of our donation ofiiMiirt « vw * * $1,000* to the American Red Cross.
'This amount covered about 15% of the amount of money collected from our semesterly BOOK EXCHANGE. 
The unsold books and 85% of the money from sold books will be returned to the owners on September 20th from 3-6 PM In Skibo 54.
If you were ever involved with...
•Community Service •Scouts «Interact•Rotary Club »Sierra Club •National Honor Society
...then why not “ Get Involved with A Phi O “!?!?!
All of our events are open to 
the campus community !!! 
Our meetings are Monday’s at 6 PM in Margaret 
Morrison 103 (Breed Hall) 
OR STOP BY our office in Skibo 64 
OR CALL US at 268-2116
And Coming soon ... “Another A Phi O Service”
•C-Book published by A Phi O for early October--we are looking for student volunteers to help with data entry, advertising and layout.
(Change of Address forms are now available.)
¦Concession sales at every home game at Gesling Stadium & at Spring Carnival.
•MagicBuses to Washington D.C., Philadelphia, Allentown, & New York City for Thanksgiving & Spring Break.
•Shuttle Bus provides inexpensive bus rides to Pittsburgh International Airport for Thanksgivivng & Spring Break.
•United Way Fundraising — NERF Olympics & The Ugly Man On Campus Contest.
A Phi O is Alpha Phi Omega — a National Co-Ed Service Fraternity

---------------------------------------------------

rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSbv
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE
Minutes of 10 September 1991.
Meeting called to order at 7:12.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), 
Altmann (CS), Blake (CFA), Chien 
(GSIA), Cohen (CIT), Crehan (H&SS), 
Dean (CIT), DeRoss (MCS), Gillis 
(H&SS), Harris (H&SS), Ikeda (H&SS), 
Kroos (H&SS), Larson (CFA), 
Loofbourrow (CIT), Loomis (GSIA), 
Mooney (H&SS), Mueller (IM) (7:30), 
Neighbor (CFA), Newfield (MCS), 
Nightwine (CIT), Shevach (CIT), Singh 
(CFA), Strong (MCS), Tomblyn (MCS).
Senators Absent: Boenschz (SUPA), 
Jones (SUPA), Lawrence (CIT), Lenga 
(SUPA), Moore (CIT), Yu (GSIA).
Ex-Officios Present: Ireland (GC 
Representative), Dean Murphy, 
Nightwine (AB), Shin (President),Trost 
(GSO), Dean Witchner (late).
Ex-Officios Absent: Erickson (Trea­
surer).
Special Business: Aliya Kahn, Coor­
dinator for the International Festival, 
22-26 October. Most of the community 
is involved because it is the first one to be 
held. All 40 embassies of the countries 
represented were contacted and they are 
sending information.
Non-Funded Recognition: Asian Chris­
tian Fellowship. Committee: 6-0-0. Ac­
cepted by acclimation.
Non-Funded Recognition: Hand to 
Hand. Committee: 5-0-1. Accepted by 
acclimation.
Special Allocation: Carnegie Care Unit 
for $465. Committee: 6—0—0. Accepted 
by acclimation.
Funded Recognition: Carnegie Mellon 
Earthwise. Committee: 6-0-0. Accepted 
by acclimation.
Non-Funded Recognition: Chaos In­
ternational. Committee: 5-0-1. Accepted 
by acclimation.
Non-Funded Recognition: Society for 
Promotion of Indian Classical Music and 
Culture Amongst Youth. Committee: 6-
0-0. Accepted by acclimation.
There are mailboxes behind the Skibo 
Info Desk, so that the newly recognized 
organizations will have mailboxes within 
the next week or so.
Audience Participation: Ross
Comer has finished the file server. Talk 
to him to find out how to get an account. 
It is being tested right now, but essen­
tially it is up and running.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Nate 
Loofborrow): No Report.
Campus Affairs (Erik Altmann): 
GSO Committee has picked up the gym 
report and has money to do some things.
Funding and Recognition (Terrel 
Dean): Meetings are at 4:30 on Thurs­
days. Any Senator may attend but please 
contact Terrel ahead of time.
Public Relations (Colin Crehan): 
Thanked Amy and Chris for cleaning 
the office. Thanked all Senators and Stu­
dent Affairs for the work they did this 
summer. Please attend the PR meeting 
on Tuesday at 6:15.
Rules (Tom Strong): The date on the 
constitution and by-laws is incorrect but 
both documents are current. Please meet 
me after the meeting to set a time for 
committee meetings.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Eric Nightwine): Luau did n t 
turn out as well as it could have. AB held 
an open house yesterday. Jimmy Cliff 
concert on Friday. Hoodoo Guru are 
coming in late October. Projectors will 
be ordered. Projectors will be in a month 
after they are ordered. The full alloca­
tion was given to them. Douglas Adams 
canceled his lecture in the fall but may 
be coming in the spring.
SDC: No Report.
Greek Council (Matt Ireland):
Greek Council is holding elections for a 
new Greek Sing chair tonight. Looking 
to hold a Greek Picnic. Also there is a
Greek Leadership Retreat planned for 
late September. Greek Council and Stu­
dent Affairs are working to bring a sexual 
assault awareness program to campus. 
Cannot force all Greeks to attend but are 
strongly encouraging them to .
Graduate Student Organization 
(Jennifer Trost): There is a GSO meet­
ing tomorrow. Discussing a new consti­
tution and fiscal policy. Looking into the 
issues facing grad students, insurance, 
and a grad student lounge.
Faculty Senate: Committees have 
not yet met. Question about extended 
benefits for faculty.
Student Affairs (Dean Witchner): 
Student Activities is holding a series of 
fiscal management meetings for clubs 
and organizations. Senators are strongly 
encouraged to attend. Thank you to Amy 
for her hard work on the Activities Fair. 
Also we will be holding a Winter Activi­
ties Fair in January. Dean Murphy 
introduced Harriet Schwartz and Tim 
Foster as new members of his staff. Fac­
ulty Senate meetings are open and are 
on Thursday at 3:30. The Faculty Sen­
ate Student Affairs Committee is not 
open but if a Senator would like to at­
tend, talk to Dean Murphy.
Officer Reports:
President (Hyun Shin): Student
Mentor Program is up and running for 
freshmen in H&SS and IM. If the pro­
gram is successful it will expand. Thank 
you to N atalie Ge smond and Erik Larson 
for their work on the program. AB mov­
ies has offered free movie passes for 
mentors and mentees.
Treasurer (Cliff Erickson): No Re­
port.
Chair (Chris Neighbor): Special 
thanks to Maggie O’Toole for her work 
on Freshman Orientation and Amy Blake 
for her work on the Activities Fair. A 
sign-up sheet is being circulated — I 
need new numbers and addresses. 
Keycards will be available next week. 
1991 Thistle is out and 1990 edition will 
be completed by Christmas. A new data­
base for clubs and organizations has been 
made. We currently have 149 organiza­
tions on campus. University of Pitts- 
burghhasonly 175. PresidentMehrabian 
has been asked to speak to the campus. 
Tentative date of October 2. Currently 
working on setting up a round table 
meeting with the other student govern­
ments in the Pittsburgh Council of Higher 
Education to be held in November. Uni­
versity Committees list announced and 
names and nominations requested.
Old Business: None.
New Business: Ross Comer intro­
duced a disclosure on The Thistle year­
book. An opportunity was given to read 
Ross’s disclosure with discussion to fol­
low. Points brought out in discussion: 
The Thistle receives $25,000 a year in 
budget. Senate does not have the power 
to replace leaders. Should hold a hear­
ing on the subject. Senate can decide 
that The Thistle is fiscally irresponsible 
and freeze funds and force it to reorga­
nize. Adam did talk to all members of his 
executive board before choosing Katie as 
his successor. Katie should be here. Rea­
sons for late 1990 — theft of computer 
equipment and parts of the book with it. 
Motion: 1. To suggest that The Thistle 
reorganize. 2. To move this issue to a 
special Senate committee.
First duty of committee to hold a spe­
cial hearing.
Motion to Amend: Subpoena all finan­
cial records and do a full audit of all 
records since Fall 1989 of The Thistle. 
Investigate the need for legal action.
$22,000 contract has been signed for 
the 1992 book. Senate needs to take a 
proactive look at the book. 1991 order 
was 600, 1990 order was 600, and the
1989 book was 800. Need to talk with 
present Thistle staff. Motion does not 
address the problems that may occur in 
the future. Legal action should be taken 
only if necessary. Editor is an employee 
of Senate. Move the question.
Amendment fails in the eyes of the 
chair.
Discussion returns to original motion.
Motion to amend: Charge subcommit­
tee with holding a hearing with the man­
agement of The Thistle to discuss both 
fiscal and deadline management.
Move the previous question: 19-0-2.
Date for fall election set. First Tues­
day and Wednesday in November. Elec­
tion Board will be chosen by the end of 
September.
Discussion:
A procedure should be placed in the by­
laws for complaints about organizations.
Skibo construction — November con­
struction on tennis courts begins. The 
building should come down in July.
Honor Code — will look into the issue 
again.
Loosening of the attendance policy for 
members-at-large to require them to at­
tend committee meetings but not neces­
sarily the Senate meetings.
Retreat is last weekend of September. 
Will be held in Uniontown. Leave Skibo 
at 4:30 Friday and return 5 pm Satur­
day.
Senate has made great strides in the 
last year; continue this year.
Announcements:
Nathan apologized for coming in late.
Women’s Center open house this Fri­
day.
Meeting adjourned at 9 pm.
Correction...
Last week's front page photo of the 
football game was taken by Josh 
Freeman, Tartan Photo Editor.
On last week's calendar page [9/ 
9], the year was incorrectly stated in 
a graphic titled L'Shanah Tovah. 
The correct year is 5752.
The Tartan corrects all errors of 
fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Beth Moses atx2111, or wrile 
her care of The Tartan.
Nutrition for Good Health
Symposium
Speakers:Ronald T. Stanko, M.D.
Associate Professor of Medicine Montefiore University Hospital University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine
Leslie Bonci, R.D.
Out-patient Co-ordinator Nutrition Services University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 6:30 - 8:00 WEAN HALL 7500
Sponsored by the Carnegie Care Unit.

---------------------------------------------------

gti ksTmATtx
RIGHT NOW all of the university committees need students. 
They are accepting nominations for advisory positions. AND 
these committees don't meet that often. So you can have a say in 
how the school is run without a big time investment.
Available positions:
• University Committee on Discipline (12 seats open)
Carnegie Mellon's courtroom
• Board of Trustees Subcommittees
Meets 3 times a year to advise the Board
• Educational Affairs & Enrollment (2 seats)
• Budget (2 seats)
• Campus Development (2 seats)
• Alumni Relations — Homecoming (2 seats)
• Vice President's Student Advisory Committee (12 seats)
Tell Bill Elliot and Pat Keating what to do!
• Faculty Senate Student Affairs Committee (4 seats)
Tell your professors what to do!
• Campus Services Advisory Committee (2 seats)
Tell Entropy what to do!
• Design Review Committee (1 seat)
The review board for campus building projects
• Sexual Harassment Committee (2 seats)
Address concerns of sexual harassment on campus
• Ryan Award Committee (2 seats)
Teaching award
To get involved:
Send your written nomination to the Student Senate 
mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk. Include your 
name, addresss, year, phone number, and a statement of 
why you want to be on the committee. Due by Friday, 
September 20.
OR
Just come to the Student Senate meeting on Tuesday, 
September 17, 7:00 in the Wherrett Room
paid for by YOUR Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

rat renies f Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSb
Frats take internat'l awards
Courtesy of AEPi
Alpha Epsilon Pi brothers proudly display the Edward and Francine 
Gold Jewish Communal Service Award they won this year. 
AWARDS, from page 1
Chemoff emphasized that “anyone can enter” 
and that they are a social group that functions 
like any other fraternity on campus.
AEPi’s main event last year was the Wing-a-
thon, in which they raised $7,000. 
The Wing-a-thon is an annual 
eat out where the brothers each 
get sponsored to eat as many 
wings as they can. Last year’s 
money went to the Juvenile Dia­
betes Foundation. Their next up­
coming event is the Sukkah. This 
event spans the Jewish holiday of 
Sukkot from September 22 to Oc­
tober 1. Chernoff said, “We hope 
to continue this.”
Although Kwiatkowsky said 
PiLam will “keep doing what we’ve 
been doing,” they are’ looking to 
make some changes. They are 
getting set to improve their house 
and establish better relations with 
other CMU houses. They will also 
be looking to work more with the International 
Chapter. They hope to host a campus-wide 
event next semester.
“We’re not sure what we’re gonna do yet,’’said 
Kwiatkowski, “but something is being done.”
GSO begins reorganization
GSO, from page 1
representatives have spoken with 
Christiano and Student Affairs 
about the possibility of a gradu­
ate student lounge in the new 
student center, and “The admin­
istration was helpful once we got 
our point across,” said Guss. 
“Christiano seemed sympathetic 
and concerned,” added Trost, “and
Student Affairs has been very 
willing to talk.”
GSO is also trying to get im­
provements made on CMU’s 
rather dismal athletic facilities. 
“Graduate students can’t afford 
to join health clubs,” said Chase, 
“and the access to the pool and 
weight rooms is capricious.”
In general, said Trost, the goal
of GSO is “really to give the 
organization more coherence, to 
show spirit, and to prove that 
graduate students have a place 
here, too.”
“It may seem that GSO came 
out of nowhere,” said Guss, “but 
all of a sudden, it’s a force to be 
reckoned with. Now people will 
listen when GSO talks.”
Ambler project displayed to public
AMBLER, from page 1
eats, and breathes robotics. It is a 
very bold and ambitious program. 
It is the most ambitious attempt 
to date to integrate,” said Whittaker.
The Ambler project has cost 
$1.5 million a year for the past 
three years. This cost reflects
the money for the robot itself 
and the intricate software and 
hardware which drives the ma­
chine.
The Ambler is not yet sched­
uled to go to Mars, as it is still a 
concept prototype. The robot 
first has to go through space
qualification, which entails 
years of testing of space-worthy 
components, miniturization of 
the robot, and achievement of 
sufficient reliabilty and endur­
ance. “We are looking for a leap 
into exploration, not just a step,” 
said Whittaker.
Senate investigates yearbook
Tartan wins ACP recognition
TARTAN, from page 1
managing editor, said, “I am thor­
oughly pleased to see that the 
¡Tartan is once again enjoyingthe 
national recognition I’ve always 
known it deserved. Ever since
The Tartan’s format change in 
1988 [from tabloid to broadsheet], 
it’s been the paper to beat in na­
tional student journalism com­
petitions.”
The Tartan also received the
1989 National Pacemaker award. 
Howdy Pierce (M/PW. ’91), 1990 
editor-in-chief, said, “It was neat 
and a lot of fun to be chosen, 
especially since this was the sec­
ond one I was a part of winning.”
Carnegie Mellon in BrieY
Kiosks to be renovated
; The information kiosks, those Macintosh com­
puters in Skibo, Morewood, and other locations 
that exhort passers-by to “Touch the Screen,” are 
undergoing renovations for the first time since 
their introduction. A primary goal of the renovation 
project is to increase kiosk usage by members of the 
¿CMU community. A questionnaire designed to help 
pinpoint the kind of information that is most useful 
to users of the kiosks is now in circulation. Sugges­
tions and comments are welcome, and both should 
be sent to IPS (Information Procesing Systems), 
Skibo Information Desk, Skibo 103.
Simon to give lecture
Herbert Simon, Richard King Professor of Com­
puter Science and Pscychology, will present “Envi­
ronment, Energy, and All That: How Policies Are 
Made” on Thursday at 3:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom. 
Simon’s address is presented as part of the 
President’s Distinguished Lecture Series.
GSO donates to gym
The Graduate Student Organization has voted to 
donate $300 to the Athletic Department for the 
installation of a second water fountain in Carnegie 
Mellon’s only gymnasium. The lack of adequate 
water fountains was part of the report submitted by 
Student Senate to CMU’s President Merhabian, 
Bill Elliot, Vice-President for Enrollment, and John 
Harvey, Director of Athletics concerning the condi­
tions of the gymnasium. In a related action, the
GSO passes a resolution offering to co-sponsor the 
gym report. GSO noted that modest progress had 
been made, but the call for a gym advisory board 
had surprisingly been ignored. They called for the 
administration to establish the committee and fin­
ish the maintenance suggested in the report.
Biomedical initiatives 
offered to minorities
The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases in Bethesda, Maryland, is offering an 
initiative to minority student in their junior or 
senior years of undergraduate work or in the first 
year of graduate or medical school. The Introduc­
tion to Biomedical Research Program is designed to 
acquaint academically talented students with the 
field of biomedical research.
NAIAD, one of the Institutes at the National 
Institute of Health, supports research into the 
causes and treatments of allergic, immunologic, 
and infectious diseases.
Accepted students will be provided per diem and 
will receive round-trip tickets to Bethesda, where 
they will have the chance to participate in lectures, 
interviews and tours, as well as face-to-face discus­
sions with scientists.
Participants will .-also have the opportunity to 
apply for summer positions. Aproximately fifty-five 
students with a 3.0 GPA or better will be accepted 
for the February 9-13,1992 program.
If interested, contact the MARC, MBRS repre­
sentatives or your dean for an application packet. 
The completed packet must be received by NIAID 
by November 15.
Final selection will be made by December 6.
THISTLE, from page 1
1990 book publisher]. I spoke with 
an assistant co-worker of the 
woman to whom we mail com­
pleted pages, who looked up the 
information about the 1990 book, 
and she said, ‘oh yes, 69 pages are 
missing’... It is from that that I 
wrote up this disclosure.” 
Goldsmith further explained 
the missing pages, “By March of 
1991,1 was led to believe by the 
publishers that everything had 
been sent in for 1990 so I asked 
[the publishers] to hold off on the
1990 book in order to get the 1991 
book done on time.”
“In April,” Goldsmith said, 
“Anne Witchner or Mike Murphy 
of Student Affairs had called to 
chec’ on the books and it was 
discovered that the publisher was 
missing 70 pages of the 1990 
book....”
Whether the 70 pages were lost 
by the publishers or were not 
turned in by The Thistle is in 
question according to Goldsmith. 
However, as a result of the mis­
understanding, Goldsmith had to 
“re-order advertisement pages 
and is still double-checking the 
newly done 70 pages with already 
completed and printed pages. This 
should be completed early this 
week and the 1990 book should be 
out in December 1991,” he said.
The 1991 yearbook, the first 
book to be a spring publication, 
was not completed on time, and 
Comer’s disclosure states that 
since The Thistle missed several 
deadlines, publication was de­
layed into the summer. “The book 
was to be delivered with the 
supplement covering Carnival 
and graduation included with the 
book. Although books have ar­
rived, the supplement, completed 
over two months ago, has yet to be 
sent to the printer,” said Comer.
“Late yearbooks were getting to 
be the trend,” said Harris, senior 
editor during fall 1990. ‘The prob­
lem was mismanagement and a 
lack of everybody totally knowing 
what to do.... As senior editor I 
could do whatever I wanted to 
run the book but I was not in 
charge; it was very nebulous.” 
“Furthermore,” said Harris, “I 
was not given access to funds, 
which was something I wondered 
about. It would have helped to 
know about the budget when I 
was requisitioning things I needed 
for the book.”
The disclosure by Comer fur­
ther states that there “are no set 
guidelines for the running of The 
Thistle. This permits a virtual 
dictatorship to exist where the 
editor has unrestrained power, 
and this makes it difficult to orga­
nize the multitude of jobs neces­
sary to publish a yearbook.” 
Comer, once a part of this system 
himself, was appointedlast spring 
by Goldsmith to be the 1992 busi­
ness manager.
Comer had to try to “get a feel 
from Adam for what the position 
of business manager involves.... 
What I have found from my past 
involvement in other organiza­
tions is that having written guide­
lines makes things much easier 
in the future so that... it is easier 
for someone else to step in... they 
can at least have a good starting 
point of what to look for.” Comer 
went on to say that “there is a lot 
there [in the running of The 
Thistle] and Adam handled a lot 
of things... he was in control... he 
is in control [of The Thistle]” 
Under such methods of appoint­
ment, Goldsmith first became 
editor-in-chief in 1989. The origi­
nal editor for the 1990 book re­
signed and there was “no one who 
was qualified to replace her” ac-
cording to Goldsmith. “I was go­
ing to be production manager... .1 
was chosen [to be editor] by Anne 
Witchner and Mike Murphy.
Comer feels it is wrong that when 
Goldsmith continued on as editor 
for the 1991 book, “there was no 
procedure for the staff to say Ves, 
sure, continue.’ ” Furthermore, 
when editors are setting their own 
salaries without guidelines, Comer 
senses a conflict of interest. As a 
result, among his suggestions to 
Student Senate in his disclosure, 
Comer requests that The Thistle 
develop a “democratic constitution” 
that includes appointment and 
salary guidelines.
Katherine Coonrod, the editor 
of the 1992 Thistle, said a consti­
tution sounds like a good idea to 
her. “Frankly, I didn’t know we 
had to have a constitution, but I 
have taken steps to institute one.
I am working with Harriet’ 
Schwartz [assistant to the dean' 
of Student Affairs] to develop one.” 
Further accusations in the dis­
closure allege poor money man­
agement. Harris claims that he 
“wouldn’t be a bit surprised if 
funds were mismanaged.”
Stu ent Senate’s response, as 
recorded in its minutes, was to 
“charge a subcommittee with 
holding a hearing with the man­
agement of The Thistle to discuss 
both fiscal and deadline manage­
ment.” Chris Neighbor, Student 
Senate chair, explains that the 
special committee is intended to 
“hear both sides and discuss the 
problems.... We need to find out 
what to be looking for.... There 
are very vague accusations.” 
According to Goldsmith, the dis­
closure is motivated by an unre­
lated personal conflict. “I believe 
Ross is carrying out a personal 
vendetta against me.... It is to­
tally unrelated to The Thistle.”
Pittsburgh Horizons is an excitingprogram sponsored by Student Affairs that provides students, faculty, and staff an 
opportunity to enjoy some of Pittsburgh's finest cultural and social events. The office of Student Affairs will subsidize the cost of most events and also provide free transportation. In addition, almost every event will have a reception beforehand. There will be approximately eight activities planned for the spring semester. Look for posters and flyers with more information. Tickets can be purchased at the Skibo Information Desk.
Sun. Sept. 22
Sat. Oct. 19
Sun. Oct. 20
THE HENRY CLAY FRICK ESTATE 
A Turn-of-the-Century House Museum
11:00 am - 2:00 pm 
$5.00/person
PITTSBURGH BALLET COUNCIL 
The Phoenix Dance Company (U.S. Debut)
British company of dancers.
7:30 pm - 10:00 pm 
$8.00/person
PITTSBURGH FILMMAKERS 
"INDIA CABARET"
Explores stereotypes of women in Indian 
society.
2:30 pm - 4:00 pm 
$4.00/person
THE CARNEGIE MUSEUM 
International Exhibit
More information TBA
PITTSBURGH FILMMAKERS 
"SOLAAM BOMBAY"
2:30 pm - 4:30 pm 
$4.00/person
Sat. Nov. 16 CARNEGIE SCIENCE CENTER
$6.00/person 
More information TBA
Sat. Oct. 26
Sun. Oct. 27

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Thistle, Senate: Make organizational plan
People tend to treasure their 
yearbooks. The contents can 
spark memories both now and 
the' endlessly-invoked “20 years 
from now.” The Thistle yearbook 
is no exception.
Problems at The Thistle
But The Thistle is in trouble. 
Last fiscal year The Thistle’s 
budget closed thousands of dol­
lars in the red. The 1990 Thistle 
has not yet put in an appear­
ance. Senate is beginning an in­
vestigation into mismanagement 
and disorganization. We are 
concerned about this state of 
affairs.
There are a number of talented 
people working for the yearbook. 
They should be able to put out a 
good book, on time and on bud­
get.
As we see it, there are a few 
things standing in their way: 
poor financial management, poor 
planning, and lack of organiza­
tional structure.
We have some recommenda­
tions to combat these problems:
• Adopt a constitution. Any 
organization the size of The 
Thistle needs to have a concrete 
structure because running it is a 
big administrative job. A consti­
tution can spell out succession 
procedures, dictate how other 
important decisions are to be 
made, and define job descrip­
tions and the division of respon­
sibilities. A constitution would 
provide an organizational out­
line for The Thistle, and a base 
from which the staff can work.
• Develop a set of standard 
operating procedures (SOPs). 
SOPs would outline specific 
standards for the organization. 
The benefits are similar to those 
of a constitution, but SOPs are 
less open to interpretation. A 
possible SOP, for example, could 
dictate production deadlines. 
With a working set of SOPs, new 
members of The Thistle staff 
wouldn’t have to figure out from 
scratch how to complete their 
work — even if their predeces­
sors weren’t around anymore. 
They could simply refer to the 
standard operating procedures.
• Take action. If problems in 
the organization seem to be get­
ting out of hand or too large to
. conquer internally, seek help 
from the resources on this cam­
pus which are ready to assist 
organizations in need of aid.
One good resource is the Office 
of Student Affairs. Personnel 
there are willing to help with 
training, give advice, or provide 
whatever help possible — they 
only need to be asked. Student 
Senate also provides help to 
student activities including a 
budget-planning workshop. Ex­
ternally, there are trade organi­
zations such as the National 
Council of College Publications 
Advisers and the Society for 
Collegiate Journalists, which 
publish literature about running 
successful college publications.
• Cultivate the staff you re­
cruit. Provide training, so new 
members don’t have to guess how 
to do their jobs. Let them know 
clearly what their jobs entail, 
and what their responsibilities 
are — let them read the consti­
tution and SOPs. Give them the 
information they need to do their
work properly.
Senate’s involvement
There is another important is­
sue here that must be men­
tioned, one that is linked to The 
Thistle’s problems: the apparent 
inattention of Student Senate. 
The 1990 yearbook didn’t come 
out on time. Now, over a year 
later, it’s still not finished. The 
1991 yearbook was late. Yet 
Senate didn’t look into the situ­
ation until a formal complaint 
was filed.
The preamble to the Senate 
constitution states its intent to 
“safeguard and promote [stu­
dents’] welfare.” We interpret 
this as including careful alloca­
tion of our activities fee.
There’s something wrongwhen 
Senate somehow overlooks an or­
ganization thatspends thousands 
of dollars over its allocation ant. 
budget but fails to provide, even a 
year later, the product it prom­
ises. While it’s true that having 
equipment stolen was a signifi­
cant setback for The Thistle, it 
should have recovered and pro­
duced the 1990 book by now.
Based on this, we have some 
suggestions for Senate as well:
• Require a constitution for 
organizations which are allo­
cated more than a certain 
amount of money — our sug­
gested amount is $1000.
The reasoning behind this is 
that any organization large 
enough toneedthat much money 
from Senate is also large enough 
to need the structure that a con­
stitution can provide.
This would hopefully safe­
guard Senate’s investment of our 
activities fee money by assuring 
Senate and, for that matter, all 
activities fee-paying students 
that the money is going to a 
sound organization.
• Be aggressive when dealing 
with organizations that go over 
their allocated budgets. As it 
stands now, there is no stan­
dard for action taken with orga­
nizations that close with a defi­
cit. Their debt goes into the ac­
tivities fee pool and is generally 
covered by another organiz­
ation’s profit. Taking away or 
reducing further allocations as 
a punishment is useless. This 
would hurt everyone who is in 
the organization or affected by 
it, and would solve nothing.
Our suggestion is that Senate 
institute a policy of auditing any 
organization that finishes the 
year in debt by a margin of over 
10 percent of its allocation.
This procedure can serve three 
purposes: Organizations will 
work harder to stay within bud­
get to avoid an audit, so it is a 
preventative measure; an audit 
will show Senate and the orga­
nization the cause of the prob­
lem, so it is an educational 
measure; and audits can be very 
unpleasant, so it is a punitive 
measure.
We want to see a strong and 
healthy yearbook organization 
at Carnegie Mellon. The Thistle 
has a good way to go before it fits 
that description, but we believe 
it can make it. We hope it does, 
if only so that, 20 years from 
now, we can proudly take our 
Thistle yearbooks off our shelves 
to show off to our kids.
I«•Onen
^tAAm pAtmneKt !
Moor This-Vle*
xif^rbocK ! zxfionj
o*\ a jyvie
Letters to the Editor
NROTC begins new year 
with promising changes
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
After a challenging 
summer program of 
shipboard, aviation, 
and Marine Corps 
training, the mid­
shipmen of the Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity Naval ROTC unit have returned 
to campus ready to begin the 1991 fall 
semester. The new school year brings 
several changes to the NROTC unit. 
This year starts not only with a new 
freshman class, but also with new staff 
members to head the unit, and senior 
midshipmen to lead the battalion.
Thanks to the efforts of the unit staff 
and battalion recruiting committee, this 
year’s class of incoming freshmen is the 
largest ever to join our young unit. The 
65 new Fourth Class midshipmen bring 
the battalion to a total of over 200, the 
largest number of students yet in CMU’s 
four-year-old Naval ROTC unit.
Along with these new midshipmen come 
new members of the unit’s staff. The new 
additions include Captain Joseph Mazza, 
Major Mike Weber, and Lieutenant Jeff 
Fox. Captain Mazza replaces Captain 
James Jordan, who retired in May, as the 
unit’s Commanding Officer and professor
of Naval Science. Major Weber is reliev­
ing Major Paul Mathews as an assistant 
professor of Naval Science and the Ma­
rine Officer Instructor. The final member 
to join our unit is Lieutenant Jeff Fox, 
who is replacing Lieutenant David Badzik 
as an Assistant Professor of Naval Science 
and student advisor. These new mem­
bers are a welcomed addition to our unit.
While the unit’s staff has gained new 
leadership, so has the midshipmen bat­
talion. This semester brings a new group 
of senior midshipmen to lead the under­
classmen. Midshipman First Class 
Kenneth Wilson, mechanical engineer­
ing, is serving as the Battalion Com­
mander and is supported by Midship­
man First Class Philip Buonadonna, 
computer engineering, as Executive 
Officer; Midshipman First Class Steve 
Marino, a University of Pittsburgh 
student, as Operations Officer; Mid­
shipman First Class Bill Slease, elec­
trical engineering, as Administration 
Officer; Midshipman First Class John 
Heyel, mechanical engineering, as 
Company Commander; Midshipman 
First Class Keith Rudy, civil engineer­
ing, as Company Commander; and Mid­
shipman First Class Marcia Bauer, 
chemical engineering, as Company 
Commander. These new changes in 
midshipman leadership positions, along
with the new staff members and incom­
ing freshmen, will enhance our unit and 
bring forth a challenging and exciting 
semester.
Annacarol M. Lasko 
Senior, Industrial Design
AFROTC congratulates 
award-winning cadets
Editor: By
Air Force ROTC De- 
tachment 730 is proud 
to congratulate our ca- LGttGf tO 
dets who received ofO thca mp 
awards at their re- *"e Editor 
spective Field Training encampments. 
Our current AS-300 class has the larg­
est percentage of cadets receiving Field 
Training awards at Detachment 730. 
The award winning cadets , are as fol­
lows: Steve Johnson, Vice-Comman- 
dant, top five percent; Eric Hoffman, 
Superior Performer, top 15 percent; Opal 
Perry, Superior Performer, top 15 per­
cent; James Polanosky, Superior Per­
former, top 15 percent; and Wendy 
Baumgartner, Athletics Ribbon.
Chad Darby
Senior, Computer ScienceNew policy stresses responsibility
Rich Robinson
Fraternities have been going through 
many changes over the past five or ten 
years, trying to dispel the myths of 
Animal House and other stereotypes. 
Efforts have included trying to better 
relationships with the school, the stu­
dents, and the community through 
charitable events and social awareness 
on campus.
Contrary to many beliefs, fraternities 
are not made up of a bunch of beer- 
guzzling clones. It should be obvious to 
most of the students at Carnegie Mellon 
that if this were the case, the fraterni­
ties wouldn’t exist on campus at all, as 
most of the brothers would fail out by 
sophomore year. Instead, the overall
manage themselves.
So the Inter-fraternity Council was 
pressed last year by the FIPG- restricted 
houses to force the unrestricted houses 
to use the same system. A BYOB policy 
was suggested, and everyone wanted to 
jump on the bandwagon. It would be fair 
to everyone, and the fraternities 
wouldn’t have to foot the bill for alcohol 
anymore.
Starting a BYOB policy as risk man­
agement, though, is like switching the
I’m not really sure of the point of 
either of these. I suppose the guest list 
could be used to track down people who 
are missing the next day, but other than 
that, I’m not really sure. And checking 
IDs would be a great idea, if it had any 
meaning. Also, you should note that 
these rules apply for open parties, not 
private ones.
Requirements for events where alco­
hol will be served: Event Times — a 
fraternity parties must have specified
I suppose the guest list could be used to 
track down people who are missing the next 
day... And checking IDs would be a great 
idea, if it had any meaning.
hand you’re putting in the lion’s mouth. 
As I mentioned last semester, BYOB 
grade point avei^ge^f-fr-ater-nity--memz___would cause more problems than it
bers is-"above the “alj male” average 
every year.
But still, fraternities are a major part 
of the social life here at Carnegie Mel­
lon. Alarge percentage of“independents” 
trek over to the quad every weekend to 
partake of free beer and a free party. 
Recent trends in the country, though, 
have been toward a more health-con­
scious, alcohol-free life. Fraternities 
have responded, and through the late 
’80s and early ’90s began to move more 
rapidly towards their new socially- 
conscious views.
The nationals of many fraternities on 
campus have adopted risk management 
policies that pertain to alcohol. One 
such policy setter, Founders Insurance 
Purchasing Group, does not allow the 
use of air taps — the common draft- 
style taps you see at most houses. How­
ever, other nationals do not restrict their 
chapters, opting to allow the chapters to
woulcl SttWe.-Qgen alcohol would be out­
side — something the school does not 
want — and broken glass would be ev­
erywhere, instead of those nice plastic 
cups.
IFC did some more work on its alcohol 
policy, and the result, I must admit, is 
rather good.
This policy is designed to protect ev­
eryone, from the guest to the fraternity. 
It will also, I hope, take some of the 
burden off Campus Police, who spend 
way too much time on the quad as it is.
Here is a run-down of the policy:
Concerning guests: Guest lists — all 
fraternities must register all guests at 
alcoholic functions on a house guest list. 
This list must include all invited men 
and women. Carding — all fraternities 
must check IDs and distinguish those 
who are 21 and over from minors by 
some visible signal such as handstamps, 
armbands, etc.
beginning and ending times. At said 
ending time, the doors must be closed 
and no alcohol can be served after that 
time.
I believe this is a good idea. It pre­
vents people from being out all night 
and campus police having to worry about 
drunk people running through More- 
wood at 5 am. Unless the posted closing 
time is 5 am.
Now we get into the important part of 
the alcohol policy. Last semester I rec­
ommended all three as an alternative to 
the BYOB policy, and I still believe that 
they will help control any problems, £ 
well as protect guests and brothers.
Serving Alcohol: All fraternities must 
limit the amount of beer served to indi­
vidual guests. This would be equivalent 
to being “cut off’ at a bar.
Also, all fraternities must provide al­
ternate beverages at all events where 
alcohol is served.
This is already done at most of the 
houses, but not everyone is aware of it- 
Please see BYOB, page 1

---------------------------------------------------

rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSbz
Stupidity Works focuses on practicality
Jason McDonald
I’ve come to the decision that I’d like to 
teach a course at Carnegie Mellon after I 
graduate. The class title would be Stupid­
ity Works and would be best taught out of 
the philosophy department, although I 
think it should be a requisite for all majors.
The eye-opening revelation came to me 
on Thursday morning. When the little yel­
low “Violation” tag popped up on my park­
ing meter, I panicked. Having recently 
gotten a ticket because a meter mysteri­
ously unjammed itself, I decided I had to fix 
the problem before I left the scene.
For some reason, the most appealing 
option seemed to be a really hard kick. 
Without regard for consequences—broken 
foot, being seen by a meter maid(to which I 
ask, does kicking a meter count as assault­
ing an officer of the law?) — I gave it my 
best shot, and it worked! Well, I only got a 
half hour, but it was a moral victory, at the 
very least.
But then I thought about it; doesn’t it 
seem that the moronic always wins out 
over reasonable thought? How often has 
this happened to you: You give the profes­
sor the textbook answer that you thought 
he or she was shooting for, only to be 
rewarded with “That’s true, but...” Mean­
while, that student who barely shows for 
class and has chicken-scratch notes says 
something profound like, “It goes to the 
left,” and gets invited to the professor’s 
house for dinner.
A semester in my class would begin with 
a segment on historical stupidity. The first 
lesson would be a biography on the person 
who decided that the best 
way to make eighth grad­
ers interested in reading 
was to have them read 
books like Silas Marner.
Lesson two would focus 
on people who ask “Hot 
enough for you?” in 100- 
degree heat, and “Are you 
all right?” after someone 
drops a cinder block on 
your head and you’re ly­
ing on the ground writh­
ing in pain.
Practical stupidity would be the main 
focus of the course, though. Who wouldn’t 
like to know how to irritate an instructor 
or TA enough to do the homework prob­
lem for you? I can hear myself giving the 
lecture now: “Go to office hours and ask 
for help. After your instructor goes 
through seven minutes of examples, ask 
‘But what’s the “Y” for?’ and watch the 
color drain from his or her face.”
Clever ways to avoid classroom discus­
sions would be part of this. For example, 
when called on to answer a question,
make a point someone else made, fol­
lowed by “furthermore,” and then trail 
off, acting like you’re searching for the 
proper phrasing. Let someone else fin­
ish, and then say, “Yeah. That’s what I 
meant.”Don’t look through your notes or 
book, though; the instructor will just 
come after you harder because it will
prove that you didn’t read the assign­
ment.
Learning good excuses for missing ex­
ams and losing homework would be a 
good workshop-type exercise. I’d like to 
wean people off the standard “dog ate it” 
line and into the more extravagant (and 
harder to verify) excuses like, “It came 
out of my pocket while I was skydiving, 
so it could be anywhere in a 50-mile 
radius. Can I go home now?”
Social exercises would also be a useful 
course objective. Learning to cover for 
yourself when you ask a friend about
that significant other that they just broke 
up with is something for which everyone 
could use a refresher course. Sorry, but 
“Well, how about those Pirates?” is a 
little too stupid even for this course.
So how would this course be graded? 
Tests would be given, but any real at­
tempt to answer the questions would re­
sult in a failing 
grade. Rambling, 
meaningless an­
swers that have 
nothing to do 
with the ques­
tions are good; 
writing “I didn’t 
understand the 
question” is even 
better. The really 
bright ones won’t 
even show up for 
class, claiming to have lost the syllabus.
As for extra credit, there should be 
something. I think people who wear 
sweaters and turtlenecks in August (or 
shorts in the winter months) deserve 
some credit, but the top student will be 
the one who can miss the entire semes­
ter, and say with a straight face, “I didn’t 
know what room it was in.”
Jason McDonald is a senior IM major 
who is looking for a TA who believes the 
radio works because there are very small 
people playing instruments inside it.
Hey, CMOS: We want service, not face-lifts
As has been noted in past issues of The Tartan, once the 
meal plan is paid for, the student is shafted. If CMDS has 
problems — like last semester — and has to change 
operating hours of different places, raise prices, etc., 
the student cannot take his or her money elsewhere.
Chris Restifo
There is a famous phrase that 
says the only thing constant in 
the universe is change. Dining 
Service, in its ever futile attempt 
to resemble something that ac­
tually meets the needs of stu­
dents here, seems to live and die 
by this axiom.
With changes occurring just 
about every semester now, 
CMDS is slowing pushing itself 
down the tubes.
Instead of offering cosmetic 
make-overs designed to appear 
as great strides toward “sanitary 
and wholesome conditions,” they 
ought to take decisive action that 
would satisfy students, save 
CMDS fiscally, and earn them a 
decent reputation.
First and foremost, the entire 
meal plan system needs to be 
revamped. As has been noted in 
past issues of The Tartan, once 
the meal plan is paid for, the 
student is shafted. If CMDS has 
problems—like last semester— 
and has to change operating 
hours of different places, raise 
prices, etc., the student cannot 
take his or her money elsewhere.
Instead of this wasteful, incon­
venient system, meal plans here 
should be run on a point-like 
basis.
This method, used by other
colleges, allows the student to 
buy “points” that pay for a meal. 
The student can buy as many 
points at one time as he or she 
desires. In short, it is a validine 
of meal plan points. These points 
are then used to “pay” for a meal. 
That way, when CMDS seriously 
screws up, the student is not 
stuck with the same meal plan 
all semester. Once he or she uses 
his or her points, the student can 
take his or her money elsewhere. 
Such a customer-satisfaction- 
driven methodology would force 
Dining Service to take itself se­
riously. Right now, it doesn’t 
seem to be doing that.
Of course such an idea wouldn’t 
really work if it were imple­
mented just now. Who would 
want to buy points for high- 
priced food?
You see, if I had the time, I 
could go down to the McDonald’s 
in Oakland. There, for only $3.51 
— that includes tax — I can get 
a special value meal consisting 
of a Big Mac, large fries, and a 
medium coke. No, I’m not trying 
to sound like a spokesperson for 
the franchise.
I just want everyone reading 
this article to seriously consider 
how much you would have to 
spend at the Tartan Grill to get 
the same amount of food at the 
same quality. One grilled chicken 
sandwich maketh not a better 
meal plan.
Of course, a simple solution to 
this dilemma would be to put an
independently-owned fast food 
chain in the new University 
Center when it opens. Such a 
place could use the meal plan 
like Domino’s Pizza does now.
If CMDS is so worried about 
health regulations or profit, they 
could dictate that the franchise 
pass regulations — which it 
would have to do in the first 
place — and pay a flat “rent” for 
use of the space. I don’t care if the 
facility were McDonald’s, Taco 
Bell, Burger King, Wendy’s or 
whatever. All I do know is that it 
would provide good service and 
good food while consequently 
driving the Tartan Grill into 
bankruptcy.
Some will say, “Well, what 
about that new CMDS-sanc- 
tioned Chinese food operation?” 
Don’t get the idea that this op­
eration will add to the quality 
like an independently-owned fast 
food franchise would.
I’m not defending the apparent 
health risks associated with such 
a place. If CMDS institutes its 
own, however, it will be of the 
same quality as the Tartan Grill. 
Why not just let the current
franchise exist in Wean Hall if 
they agree to provide sanitary 
conditions and pay a “commis­
sion” of some type?
This Chinese food operation 
has probably brought into your 
mind places like the Cutting 
Board on the fifth floor of Wean.
If CMDS truly wants to pro­
vide good food, why not put these 
places on the meal plan?
I don’t want to hear the excuse 
that you can’t hook up to the 
system. If we can hook up every 
dorm and academic room on 
campus, I’m sure we can provide 
outlets in Wean. The reason for 
putting these places on the meal 
plan is simple — they provide 
good food.
Compared to Highlander and 
the Tartan Grill, they rate about 
the same quality as a 
McDonald’s. Why not use this 
idea to increase the “variety” 
available to students? And the 
food and meal plan system are 
not the only things that need to 
be changed. The way facilities 
are run needs a radical overhaul.
Every time I go into High­
lander, something is not work-
BYOB from page 6
It is good for people who may be 
drunk already, or for a desig­
nated driver.
6. All fraternities must have 
a sober brother patrol system, 
where a specified number of 
brothers will remain sober dur­
ing alcoholic events.
This is the one I like the best. 
At a party, if there is a fight, a 
sober patrol can easily grasp 
the situation and take care of it 
quickly.
Also, there is someone to go 
to if there is any type of problem. 
For example, if a woman is hav­
ing a problem with a man who 
is drunk and out of control, she 
can get help fast, and if some­
one needs an escort home, the 
sober patrol should have phone 
numbers to obtain that aid.
When Kappa Sigma began 
its sober patrol last semester, 
Chief Jim LaPaglia of Campus 
Police came into the house for a 
lecture on how to effectively
ing. The pop machines are out. 
The milk dispensers are empty. 
At the Tartan Grill, during the 
lunch rush, people wait up to 
ten or fifteen minutes for fries. 
Often, no employee appears be­
hind the counter for minutes at 
a time. And during the peak 
hours, only one person is at the 
cashier. Many times this se­
mester, the person was inexpe­
rienced. I expect better service 
from four-year-olds!
So, you see my friends, what 
CMDS is doing now isn’t worth a 
wooden nickel. The changes are 
nothing more than a face-lift.
If they were to run the meal 
plan on a point system, allow 
non-university-affiliated fran­
chises on campus, open other 
facilities to the meal plan sys­
tem, and run places like real 
businesses, students would pa­
tronize CMDS. They would want 
to eat there. It would start to 
turn a profit — easily. Right 
now, CMDS is just spinning its 
wheels and covering its behind.
Chris Restifo is a junior 
chemical engineering major.
work such a patrol. Since then, 
the sober patrol has worked 
out well and the number of 
problems has decreased sub­
stantially.
The last three points, I be­
lieve, should increase the 
safety for party guests and 
brothers, and help cut down 
on drinking-related problems 
on campus.
The fraternities are taking 
responsibility for people’s 
safety, and it appears to be a 
good policy. But the responsi­
bility shouldn’t rest entirely 
on the fraternities. When you 
go out to a party, pay atten­
tion and stay aware. The fra­
ternities and campus police 
can only do so much. If you try 
to protect yourself through 
thinking smart, you probably 
won’t need any help at all.
Rich Robinson is a senior 
industrial management ma­
jor.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief............Beth A. Moses
Managing Editor............Heidi Hoover
Business Manager ..D.A. Henderson
Acting News Editor ...Farron W. Levy
Forum Editor..................M.K. Rodgers
Sports Editor...........Jason McDonald
Acting Features Ed..................Marni Borek
Diversions Editor....Stephen Glicker
Calendar Editor.........Susan Abrams
Magazine Editor..............Alison Green
Dossier Literary Ed. .Tamara Liebert 
Dossier Design Editor ...Hans Wang
Art Editor....................................John Lin
Photo Editor...................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr............Jennifer Forbes
Copy Manager ....Ellen Hendrickson
Systems Manager...........Adam Gross
Asst. News Editor...........Megan Dietz
Asst. Forum Editor...............Tim Blass
Asst. Art Editor..........................Chin Oh
Photo Staff Manager.....Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Tad Dockstader, Terri Kasch, Dexter 
Kobayashi Samantha Kossman, Tho­
mas Nichols, Alim Ray, William C. 
Sabram, Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda 
Struminger
Senior Staff 
Waseem Hussain, Rich Robinson, 
Mike Shapiro, Randy Udavcak, A. 
Franklin Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Allan Bourdius, Alison Carter, An­
drew Cosentino, Judy Grossman, Dave 
Martin, Kelly Sterling
Art
Roy Huang, Tracy Kroop
Comics
Scott Pakin, Mike Shapiro, Jen 
Thorson
Darkroom 
Jessica Miller, Rick Quinn
Production 
Rick Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, Derek 
Rubinoff, Tina Urso
Design
Matt Adler
Copy
Susan Baker, Catherine Bellanca, 
Allan Bourdius, Lenna Kydes, Tina 
Urso
Junior Staff 
Mark Alberts, Nicole Allen, Jeff 
Basista, Alexis Bauer, Debbie Bauer, 
Michael Beard, Dave Boisuert, Molly 
Brennan, Matt Bushey, Chris 
Cenkner, Franklin Chang, Trinette 
Chandler, Kevin Chen, Kevin Cooney, 
Molly Dalkiewicz, Daryl Davis, Sam 
Greenfield, Benjamin Griffin, Mark 
Hiilier, Julian Hollingshead, Ivona 
Huszcza, Tatsu Ikeda, Lori Jurgovski, 
Diane Keen, Angela Keslar, Jeannie 
Kim, Georgina Koon, Tracy Krooe, 
Meron Langsmen, Kristin Lepage, 
Katherine Lestock, Linda Lombardi, 
Corri Metz, Shazia Najmi, Eric Ogam, 
Laura Palanker, Alan Petrillo, Paul 
Platosm, Amy Potthast, Seth 
Redmore, Chris Restifo, Cesar 
Sanchez, Abby Schiff, Tara Seman, 
Brian Stewart, Katie Swango, Matt 
Thorpe, Wendy Tuggle, Jennifer 
Turner, Jason Wyse, Mary Yee, Leslie 
Zubaty
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer­
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The editori­
als appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Copyright ©1991 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Appreciate free time when you 
have it... and when you don’t
ACTIVITIES AT HONE...
LEISURE TIME 
À£Ttÿt£lES AT CNU...
lOATCHlNG
Ivona Huszcza is a freshman in H&SS.
BYOB policy faces 
scrutiny of columnist
\

---------------------------------------------------

Before us lies a new day, 
and in the distance a new 
world, ours to create by 
>Tiie strength of our faith.
¿Rodef Shalom Congregation invites all 
Students to be our guests at worship services 
ubr the High Holy Days.
I I
RODEFSHALOM
CONGREGATION 
Fifth and Morewood Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
M Erev Rosh Hashana
Rosh Hashana Morning 
¡J Erev Yom Kippur
September 8
September 9 
September 17
* Yom Kippur September 18
£ (services continue throughout the day)
6:30 pm 
9:15 pm
10 am
6:20 pm 
9:15 pm
10 am
Please call or stop by for complementary tickets in advance. 
621-6566.
DELIVERYDRIVERS
If you can provide friendly and reliable service, Pizza 
Hut® wants you. We currently have full & part time 
openings for Delivery Drivers.
You'll enjoy:
• Earnings potential (Up to $8/hr. & Greater)
• Bonus for accident-free drivers
• Flexible hours
If you are 18 years of age, have a good driving record, a 
reliable car, and can document your insurance coverage, 
we would like to talk to you.
Call or visit the following delivery units in your area.
4710 Baum Rd. 
Oakland 
683-6300
4048 Beechwood Blvd. 
Greenfield 
421-1111
2175 S. Highland 
Shadyside 
361-4212
*Hut.
©1991 Pizza Hut, Inc.
YOU BELONG WITH THE BEST
Equal Opportunity Employer mlflh
If you depend on your computer to 
be more than a word processor, graduat­
ing to a NeXTstation" computer may be 
the smartest course you ever take.
While we can’t promise a NeXTsta­
tion will carry you all the way through 
college in a month, we can promise it 
will carry you all the way through col­
lege. And graduate school. And, pardon 
the expression, the real world.
GRADUATE IN OCTOBER.
That’s because no other desktop 
computer brings such a full suite of 
workstation features to bear on such a 
wide range of research, analysis, report 
writing, and problem solving tasks.
Features like a high-performance 15 
MIPS CPU, a minimum of 8 MB of 
RAM and 105 MB of hard disk storage, 
a full UNIX* operating system, true 
multitasking, 3D graphics, and built-in 
Ethernet networking.
And no other desktop computer sur­
rounds this much power with the easy- 
to-use graphical interface — and the 
easy-to-live-with price — of a personal 
computer.
With the right software, it’s all the 
computer any college student needs.
And’between August 15 and October 
31, we’ll make acquiring the right soft­
ware practically painless.
Buy any NeXT" CPU between now 
and then and get WordPerfect? the pre­
mier word processor, SoftPC? the AT- 
class MS-DOS* emulator, and Diagram!”, 
the powerful drawing and diagramming 
package, for less than $300. That’s near­
ly $1400 worth of the most popular pro­
ductivity tools available for less than 
$300 bucks.
What’s more, graduating to a NeXT 
computer doesn’t require a lot of prereq­
uisites. Just a visit to a campus reseller.
And now’s the time to do it.
Because the sooner you 
graduate, the easier college 
will become.
For more information visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636
1. It’s easy to use.
Bring home an Apple "' Macintoshv' com­
puter t< xlay. and use it u ) c< implete assign­
ments by ti »night—even if you’ve never 
used a computer before.
2- You don’t have to speak 
computerese.
Inslindnjcr\p!tL MS-IXIVdminuniiksuch as COI'YC \\<>NIH‘K(K\l)KAri IXK.A WORK MucintirJluses familiar nurds, such as (.'o/>y and Print, andiiiclnri’s. Sepae as'file folders ft ir st<irint>\wr diicuments and a trash canfur files ym mini to thnnraiivy
3. You don’t have to be a 
computer science major to 
set one up.
Just plug everything together, flip the “on” 
switch, and you're ready to roll.
4. It’s a breeze to copy 
information and paste it into 
another document.
To copy this chart, simply use llw molisi' to chouse the Coin- command.
To place the cium in another document, just choose the Paste command.
bF nteLmsL
haE Em—.AA AmTtMacintosh
5. All Macintosh programs work 
in the same way.
Learn to use one Macintosh program, and 
you've learned the basics of using them all. 
For example, the commands you use, such 
as Open, Close, Copy, Paste, Save, Cut, 
Print, and Undo, are found in the same 
place—ever)'time.
6. It can grow with you.
This week you’re majoring in philosophy, 
next week it’s nuclear physics. After all, no 
one knows exactly what the Riture will 
bring. That’s why millions of students have 
found that investing in a Macintosh is a 
smart move. Because Macintosh can imme­
diately help you do whatever you do- 
better. And if, come tomorrow, you find 
that you want to do something different, no 
problem. It’s easy to upgrade your Macin­
tosh to help you rise to the challenge.
7. It’s great for college and beyond.
Doing your work faster, better, and more 
creatively is also a plus in the working 
world—and 
that’s precisely 
why Macintosh 
computers are used ii 
74 percent of Fortune 
1000 companies’
11. You can connect to your 
school’s mainframe or 
minicomputer.
With Macintosh. _ . 
you can seiul in ¡ 
assignments, 
gain access to 
software you 
need for a class, 
and receiv e 
lecture notes, 
class schedules, 
and other 
information- 
right from your 
own room.
? ? ?? ? ? 
lEUSk
8. It’s got connections.
To connect a printer, a modem, an external 
hard disk, or just about any other peripher­
al to a Macintosh, simply plug it in. That’s all 
there is to it.
9. It lets you work 
with others.
Every Macintosh Ls equipped with an 
Apple SuperDrive," a unique floppy disk 
drive that can use not only Macintosh disks, 
but also MS-DOS and OS/2 disks created on 
IBM and IBM-compatible computers. With 
SoftPC from Insignia Solutions, you ctn 
even run MS-DOS applications on your 
Macintosh.
10. It’s so easy to network.
Just connect the LocalTalk® cable from one 
Macintosh to another Macintosh. It takes 
just a few minutes, and you don’t have to 
buv any additional hardware or software.
12. It’s more 
affordable than ever
Macintosh prices 
have never been 
lower—especially 
with the student 
pricing available 
from your 
authorized 
Apple campus 
reseller.
You may 
even qualify 
for financing, 
which makes 
Macintosh even 
more affordable.
'Diese reasons all add up to /_ 
the power of Macintosh. The
power to be your best®
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
© 1991 Apple Ci imputer. Ini Apple, the Apple ligi >. Ii ' alTalk. Mat mtt «-!>.- anil -The |*>vu-r u > lie >«>ur liest' are resterai trademarks of Apple Computer. Ine 
Superf)ri\e is a trademark of Apple Computer, lilt IHM anti OS 2 aie registered trademarks of International Business Matliini-s Corporation. MSIXIS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Cnqxiraiion.

---------------------------------------------------

rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSbS
Carnegie Mellon has plans 
to build a University Center 
to act as the focal point of 
campus activities. What 
would you like to see in 
the proposed University 
Center?
Steve Rennekamp 
Sophomore 
Civil Engineering
“Carnegie Mellon needs more 
athletic facilities for varsity and 
intramural sports. The quality 
of the facilities are okay, but 
they are not big enough for the 
whole campus to use.”
Jacquelyn Cuccaro 
Senior
Policy and Management/ 
Applied History
“The campus needs a gather­
ing spot better than Grey Mat­
ter. I like the proposed pool and 
recreational gymnasium. I hear 
that a cluster is also planned 
which should make a nice mix.”
Mark Luo 
Freshman 
Computer Science
“A skating rink for roller or ice 
skating would be good. The Uni­
versity Center also needs a bet­
ter version of an a la carte food 
stand. A gallery area to hang 
student portfolios might be a 
great addition.”
Kay C. Dee 
Senior
Chemical & Biomedical En­
gineering
“It definitely needs more 
meeting rooms and offices for 
organizations. They need a big 
study area as an alternative to 
the library. Also, keep Entropy 
and the Art Store.”
Julio M. Corrales
Freshman
H&SS
“The new building should 
be student activities oriented. 
Abetter eatery would improve 
the food, maybe a franchise 
operation should be consid­
ered for student choice.”
A PERSON'S
Debra Bauer/Tartan Photographer
ENVIRONMENTAL pi INSTITUTE
"Chernobyl and Kuwait: 
Comparison of Two Environmental 
Disasters"
Speaker: DR. RICHARD WILSON, HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Date: Friday, September 20th
lime: 3:30 p.m.
Place: Adamson Wing Auditorium, Baker Hall
PITTSBURGH PRO BICYCLES
Come In For 
A Test Fly.
Pittsburgh Pro 
Bicycles
OPEN7DAYS
2012 Murray Ave 
Squirrel Hill 
521-2453 (BIKE)
us’lpd­
Have you moved?
C-Book Entry Change Form
Name :
Class :
Department:
Fraternity/Sorority:
Phone:
Local Address :
Permanent Address :
Return to Skibo 54 or the Skibo Info Desk
Another A Phi O Service
Computer Science 
Early Masteries 
& 
Retakes 
15-12x
will be offered
jtcityutn Fb’FFC bSSb
Signup sheets available 
at the tutor's desk in Wean 5419 
September 3, 1991
(you can only sign up for ONE session)
To get permission 
for Retakes see Maria/Becky in Wean Hall 6126 
for Early Placeout see your TA
15-127 help sessions will be offered Thursdays 
September 5th, 12th &19th 
in Wean 5419

---------------------------------------------------

$10
HAIRCUT
(WITH STUDENT I.D.)
EVERY DAY ATCIMINI
Walk-Ins Welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
(Only 2 Blocks from the Cathedral of Learning)
621-4247
VenHlso w OslTtnLliE Itsitn w gnttHL w ji—xtsi ksTmATytsi w ji—xtsi jtseit w NiaAtilB YeBlAliltL w 2myts.L kLL—tLSnrollment • Student Health • Bai Overcrowding • Contras • Housii Sxercise ° Congress • Middle East * Woody Allen ° The Muppets 0 Mi ;he Dead # Hair • No Hair ° Huma DC-1 Os • Beth’s Volume 0 Hair
1° Politics • Funding • Football Field • Student Affairs # Constitution 0 Construction SqEagiikë * Environment • Recycling »Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy irs • Everyone’s sex life • Dawn of*uters ° Classified Research using • Sororities • CharitiesDining Service • Environment • Terrorists • Recycling • Congress • Middle East • Weather • Advising • Sex • Geeks • Alcohol Gay Rights • Drugs • Budget • Music • Mighty Mouth • Comedy • The Flag * Woody Allen • Funding • Student Affairs ° Mayor Constructioi Dining Servi«Corruption¡onstruction • Overcrov ¡ongress ° Middle East Comedy • Television • Cor ¡onstruction • Track Field Dining Service • Envirom Corruption • Violence ¡onstruction • OvercrowdiniCongress • Middle East0 Sex • Wêâîher • Advising"* "Sex 0 ^eeks^'^IcohofvDrug's“0'Comedy • Television • Construction "The Flag • Woody Allen • Funding • Student Affairs • Mayor • Construction • Track 'ield ° Overcrowding * Constitution • Activities Board • Gymnasium * Housing » Sororities • Charities ° Dining Service
Dining Service • EnvironSlm ° Recycling ill ° Music ° Mighty Mouse Student Affairs • Mayor .^g • Sororities • Charities Ldvising ° Crime • Sex ° Geeks inding • Student Affairs Lvironment ° Recycling ill* Music ° Mighty Mouse
THE RIDE BOARD
This year The Tartan will start providing a new service to the campus community —• a ride 
board.
The ride board will run before breaks and will be a place for students to find and offer rides 
to their destinations
We will accept notices from any member of the campus community with valid CMU ID and 
print it free of charge.
We encourage submissions to the ride board in the following catagories:
Rides Offered 
Rides Needed 
Share a Cab 
Ticket Exchange
The first ride board will run on September 23. Deadline for submissions is Thursday, Sep­
tember 19 at 5 pm. Submissions must be made to The Tartan office in person. IDs will be checked.
Participants assume full responsibility for rides, and arrange 
them at their own risk.
COMEDIAN!!!
) onr i d 1 e
Saturday, Sept. 21, Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm
Funded by Activities Fee 
Sponsored by Activities Board Coffeehouse
STUDENT DISCOUNT
*
The Philip Pelusr salons offer great savings 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric® haircut and related services for just
^ . $16.95^
W p (Men and Women)
Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, blow dry and styling. 
Present your student ID to receive your discount. Not 
valid with any other offer and does not include a 
haircut by Philip Pelusi or Salon Style Director. One 
Oxford Centre Salon offer valid Monday thru 
Saturday 2:00 to 4:00 and 7:00 to 9:00 P.M.
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 
One Oxford Centre 261-6550 
Century III Mall 655-1940n
Village Square Mall 833-6770 ~
Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 ?
Ross Park Mall 366-1555 
Monroeville Mall 3 72 -7 52 0Open Evenings and Sundays. (Not open Sunday Oxford Salon only). Appointments not always necessary.
RoblnBonTown Centre 788-0204
DidSomeoneSayParty”?
Four Medium Cheese Pizzas IMil i
Toppings Extra. J
| Offer valid on delivery only. Please mention coupon when H II
 ordering. One coupon per party per visit at participating D
Pizza Hut delivery units or restaurants. Not valid with any *I
 other offer. Limited Delivery Area. Hurry, offer ends soon. rTpj|wpQw| I
Code: 16 DM |UtLIYtl\T| 1
1991 Pizza Hut. Inc. 1/20C cash redemption value. I
For free delivery call: 683-6300 or 4214111.
--
© 1991 PizzaHut. Inc.
Frat r enistw Iiia ro ls d
SURG ahead with a Small 
Undergraduate Research 
Grant! Receive up to $500 
to do your own research! 
SURG is open to under­
graduates in all majors 
and classes~so apply for 
a grant today! Applications 
are available in Smith Hall 
room 207 and are due Friday, 
October 18,1991.
• Check out the 1991-1992 
Directory of Research 
Opportunities, available 
now in your Department, 
Dean's office, the libraries, 
Skibo info, desk and on-line 
in Hunt!
• Feel free to call the 
Undergraduate Research 
Initiative at x-5702 if you have 
any questions!
...committed to promoting the undergraduate research experience...
T

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS_______
reniesL Li—33 4tenL ls F5’bF hls
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Griffin Pero breaks into the secondary during Saturday’s game against 
Washington University.
first down; then, on second down, 
receiver Jarrod Siket took the 
ball on a reverse and darted nine 
yards into the end zone. Harding 
added the extra point to give the 
Tartans a 7-0 lead with 7:43 left.
“We ran through the first quar­
ter, and their defensive backs
were biting on that,” said Siket. 
“So when we ran the sweep play, 
and reversed it to me going the- 
other way, there was nobody.. 
there except one guy. Sam made 
a great block on him and I went 
in, untouched.”
Please see FOOTBALL, page 13
NytM7—lie tAtBinl3ltL renies m33tsLt
Tartan Sports 
drops ball on 
women's soccer
Originally, this column was 
going to be a festive, light­
hearted tribute to my white- 
water rafting excursion from 
this past weekend. It was a 
pretty good column; maybe,
I’ll run it down the road 
sometime. Unfortunately, 
there’s been an unexpected 
change of plans since then.
Look through the sports 
section quickly. You’ll see a 
football article, a couple 
tennis stories, a volleyball 
article. We even managed to 
get the intramural news and 
a NFL column in there.
There’s something missing, 
though.
That’s right. No women’s 
soccer.
Some people might say, “Big 
deal, an article didn’t come in. 
What’s the major problem.” 
Well, pretend that you were 
on that team. You pick up a 
copy of The Tartan, hoping to 
read about the game you 
played this weekend, and 
nothing’s there.
Get the picture?
For that matter, put your­
self in my shoes. I blew the 
major part of the job descrip­
tion. This is a newspaper, the 
news should be somewhere in 
it. At least that’s the conven­
tional wisdom on this sort of 
thing.
At any rate* I could blame 
the writer I assigned to the 
story, or I could place the 
blame on understaffing, but 
when it comes right down to 
it, the failure is eventually 
mine. As sports editor, I 
should have done a better job 
of managing staff or enforcing 
deadlines, or planning an 
alternative way of getting the 
news across, somehow.
More importantly, I should 
have seen the story coming 
apart at the seams before 11 
pm last night. However, 
hindsight is indeed 20/20; the 
more important question is 
what I can do to set things 
straight.
I’d love to be able to tell you 
how the games went this 
week, but the fact of the 
matter is that I can’t. If I 
knew the scores, I’d have fit 
them in the section some­
where — the only one around 
here who knows is the writer, 
and I haven’t seen him since 
yesterday afternoon.
So if you’re interested in 
finding out what happened, 
you’ll have to call Carnegie 
Mellon Sports Information 
Director Bruce Gerson at 
extension 3087. He’ll have the 
information you need.
To coach Julie Shackford, 
the soccer team, and their 
friends and fans, all I can 
really do is offer an apology. I 
know it’s kind of like trying to 
patch the Titanic with mask­
ing tape, but I do feel bad 
about it. To the rest of the 
people who read this section 
to find out what goes on in the 
athletic world around here,
I’ll just give you my guarantee 
that this won’t happen again 
and hope that’s good enough.
After all, I hate having to 
use my column space to sell 
someone else as a news 
source. Writing about rafting 
trips is a lot more fun.
Tartan Sports Editor Jason 
McDonald is a senior IM Major.
By NATALIE M. GESMOND
Tartan Staffwriter
You have to hand it to the Tar­
tans. After dropping a heart- 
breaker to the defending national 
champion Allegheny Gators last 
week, the Tartans bounced back 
with their first win of the season 
—a 20-12 thriller over the Wash­
ington University Bears Satur­
day at Gesling Stadium.
“We needed this win after last 
week,” said linebacker Mike 
Hession. “It seems like when you 
lose the home opener, everyone 
thinks it’s a losing season.”
This University Athletic Asso­
ciation contest featured an in­
tense Tartan defense, which held 
the Bears to just 17 yards rush­
ing and recorded six critical 
s acks. But it was not an easy win 
for the defending UAA champs; 
they gave up 269 yards through 
the air and fumbled the ball 
twice.
Tensions were especially high 
in the fourth quarter as the Bears 
rallied for two touchdowns, nar­
rowing the Tartan lead to 13-12. 
Bears quarterback Ted Gregory 
connected with receiver Rick 
Wilson on a 33-yard pass to put 
the Bears on the scoreboard with 
10:14 left to play. The touch­
down capped off a six play, 73- 
yard drive, highlighted by a 22- 
yard Gregory-to-D.L.Warfield 
pass. But the point after failed 
and the Bears found themselves 
down by seven.
“We had a nice lead, and then 
we relaxed a bit, let up,” said 
junior defensive lineman Mike 
Barr. “But we’re young, and we’ll 
learn to correct those kinds of 
mistakes and maintain our level
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
It is impossible to measure the 
significance of the Tartan soccer 
team’s win over Washington Uni­
versity on Saturday.
The Tartans had just come off 
a difficult loss to cross-town rival 
University of Pittsburgh Tues­
day night, and had not scored a 
goal in three games this season. 
Pre-season polls had picked them 
to finish fourth in the University 
Athletic Association; prior to
of intensity.”
A fumble on the kickoff put the 
Bears in scoring position again, 
and again Gregory found the end 
zone. On the first play from scrim­
mage, Gregory connected with 
his favorite target, Warfield, on 
a 31-yard touchdown pass.
With 4:54 remaining in regu­
lation, the Tartans pulled tl^eir 
offense together on a 10-play 
drive, culminating on a one-yard, 
victory-clinching touchdown run
“I think that the 
team as a whole 
showed some 
character in com­
ing back and win­
ning the game."
— Rich Lackner, 
head coach
by senior quarterback Sam 
Mangano.
“I think that the team as a 
whole showed some character in 
coming back and winning the 
game,” said head coach Rich 
Lackner. “The momentum shift 
in the fourth quarter was unbe­
lievable. That’s a sign of a good 
football team—when their backs 
are up against the wall and they 
produce.”
The Tartans’ defense had no 
problems producing big plays in 
the first half. They kept Wash-
Saturday, the Tartans sat alone 
in the UAA basement.
Playing inspired soccer on a 
90-degree day in St. Louis, the 
Tartans shut out the number 23 
team in Division III, 1-0. It was 
the Tartans’ first win of the sea­
son, keeping them in the confer­
ence title race. More importantly, 
it restored their self-confidence 
after a disappointing 0-2-0 start.
“After those first two losses, 
we really needed to win,” said 
sophomore goalie Dave Shapiro.
“It was a huge win for us in a
ington out of the end zone, stop­
ping Bears’ rushers cold and re­
cording four quarterback sacks.
The most critical sack came 
with 12 seconds left in the half, 
and the Bears threatening at the 
Tartan 23; Hession busted 
through and dropped quarter­
back Aaron Keen for a loss of 
eight yards, and a loss of downs.
“The coaches made a great 
call,” said Hession. “They knew 
what he [Keen] was going to do, 
and they sent me right to the 
right hole.”
While the defense held strong 
against the Bears in the first 
half, the offense got off to a rocky 
start. After two unsuccessful of­
fensive drives in the first quar­
ter, sophomore quarterback 
Chris Dee went in for Mangano.
Dee relied on the strength of 
running backs GregMarmol and 
Griffin Pero, who brought the 
ball down to the Bears’ 27. But 
kicker Fred Harding’s 44-yard 
field goal attempt was blocked 
by Jeff Cooper, and the game 
remained scoreless.
The Tartan defense continued 
to harrass Keen in the second 
quarter. Two sacks and a ten- 
yard clipping penalty pushed the 
Bears back to their own four 
yardline, where they were forced 
to punt.
Mangano engineered a four- 
play, 22-yard drive late in the 
half to put the Tartans on the 
scoreboard. “I started off slow,” 
said Mangano. “And it started a 
fire underneath me when they 
put Chris in my place. I wanted 
to make up for some of the bad 
plays I made in the beginning.” 
He hit senior running back 
Drew Pizzurro for 14 yards on
must-win situation,” added se­
nior back Alan Horn.
And win they did, on the 
strength of their defense. 
Shapiro recordedlO saves, while 
Tartan defenders continually 
pushed the Bears back into their 
own territory. As expected, both 
teams played with intensity and 
determination; the Tartans were 
simply more intense and more 
determined.
“Our defense is really strong,” 
said Shapiro. “They looked great 
today.”
The offense looked better than 
it had in the previous two games, 
despite playing most of the game 
without senior forward Young 
Kang. Kang was taken out by 
head coach Nick Gaudioso after 
receiving a yellow card early in 
the first half.
The Tartans had only four 
shots on goal — two in each half 
— but connected on one for the 
game’s only score. At the 31:12 
mark, freshman midfielder Alex 
Amezquita chipped the ball past 
Bears’ goalie Patric Santo Pietro
from ten yards out.
The shot came after Horn’s free 
kick was deflected by Santo 
Pietro. Amezquita had excellent 
position, and was able to come ’ 
up with the deflection.
“Alan had a great shot,” said 
Amezquita. “I was in good posi­
tion at the right time, and I was • 
able to finish it off. Finishing is ’ 
something we haven’t been do­
ing this year.”
With a 1-0 lead, the Tartan 
defense took over and held the !
Please see FOOTBALL, page 13 >
Women face UAA showdown
Dianne Keen/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore Sharyn Rotunno returns a volley during Saturday’s match 
against Fairmont State University.
By CHRIS CENKNER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU women’s tennis team had a pretty 
tight schedule this week with matches against 
Chatham College, Fairmont State University, the 
University of Pittsburgh, and Robert Morris Col­
lege.
Yesterday’s match against Robert Morris went 
well for the Tartans as they won the overall match,
5-4, with the freshman pair of Kinga and Monika 
Czerska providing a lot of the firepower. Kinga 
Czerska (3rd singles) defeated Julie Chludzinuki
6-3, 6-3, and Monika Czerska (4th singles) de­
feated Danielle Woodcock, 6—0,6-3. The two then 
teamed up and defeated Chludzinuki and Wood­
cock in the second doubles competition, 6-3, 6—3. 
Also aiding in the Tartans’victory were sophomore 
Dawn Nebelkopf (5th singles) as she triumphed 
over Jennifer Phillips, 2-6, 6-1, 6-4, and junior 
Laura Ahr (6th singles) as she defeated Ami Shah, 
6-4, 6-3.
Things did not bode well for the team on Satur-., 
day, as they lost their matches against Fairmonfc I 
and Pitt. In the Fairmont match, victories for thè-' : 
Tartans were earned by senior Sylvia Candia asi ' 
she beat Carrie Smith 6-2, 6—1; Kinga CzersKa- 
over Dena Deem 4—6, 6-3, 6-2; Monika Czerska. 
over Anne Rister 6-1, 6-3; and the third doubles' 
combination of Czerksa and Czerska as they de-; 
feated Rister and Teri Lantz, 6-4, 4—6, 6-2;- ; 
Fairmont won the overall match, 5-4. In thè' \ 
match against Pitt, no victories were scored for the ; 
Tartans as the team was blanked, nine games to ; 
none.
Thursday’s match against Chatham didn’t go • 
smoothly either as the team was shutout again, 9- ! 
0. Muriel Bowser and Beth Koshinski defeated ; 
Ahr and freshman Cherie Lin in third doubles ; 
action 6-1,6—1, to ensure the shutout by Chatham. ;
The team’s recordis now 2-4. The Tartans travel ; 
to Grove City on Thurday, followed by a weekend ! 
match at Case Western Reserve University with ! 
Case Western and the University of Rochester. !
Men’s tennis team splits season-opening tournament
By DARYL DAVIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
CMU’s men’s tennis team started off the season 
Saturday with one win and one loss in a three- 
team tournament held at Pitt. They were able to 
blank Fairmont State by the score of 9-0 but then 
fell to the Pitt team, 6-3.
The closest matches against the Fairmont team 
were played in the singles category. Both sopho­
more Alan Battle and senior Mike Lucas had to 
play out three sets to take their respective matches.
Battle beat Fairmont’s Tom Collins by the score of 
6-3,5-7,6-1 and Lucas edged out Mike Allport by 
the score of 6-3,1-6, 7-5. There was also a three- 
set match in the doubles category with Carnegie 
Mellon’s number two doubles team topping the 
Fairmont doubles team by the score of 6-3,6—7,7— 
6. The rest of the team took their matches in 
straight sets to complete their series with a perfect 
score.
The team then faced Pitt and didn’t fair quite as 
well. Freshmen Alan Batke and Bill Mathey, and 
the doubles team of Battle and Lucas were able to
win their matches, but it wasn’t enough as Pitt took the other six.
The young team, composed mainly of freshmen and sophomores, 
is off to an encouraging start. Battle, who was able to win all of his 
matches on Saturday, said that, “Things are looking good. Last 
year’s team had a little more experience, but we’re doing well.” The 
team lost Matt Davis and Mike Ferrence from last year’s roster, 
each of them pursuing master’s degrees.
It was an all-day tournament that lasted from eight in the 
morning until well into the evening. The Tartans carry a season 
record of 1—1 into a Saturday road match with Case Western and 
Walsh College.

---------------------------------------------------

bFrat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSb
Imyy—slBeilms cnmuAtyL inesLAeit lsim AmLLtL
By CORRI METZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU women’s volleyball team 
experienced disappointment and frus­
tration mixed with some hope for the 
future this past week. Over the week­
end, the Tartans competed in the fifth 
annual Allegheny Invitational at the 
David Mead Field House at Allegheny 
College in Meadville. Earlier in the
* week, the team hosted Bethany College 
and Pitt-Johnstown in the Thistle Gym.
At'the Allegheny Invitational, the Tar­
tans failed to make it out of their pool, 
losing in straight sets to Marietta, 
Elizabethtown, Allegheny and the Uni­
versity of Rochester. The team com­
peted without junior Heather Thomp­
son, a three-year starter who had left 
Tuesday’s game due to illness and was 
unable to attend the weekend tourna­
ment because of other commitments.
Head coach Charlotte Fisher said that 
the team “just didn’t play well.”
Junior Joanna Downer agreed, “We 
have all of the skills, we just haven’t 
been able to put them together.” 
Throughout the tournament, the Tar­
tans’ play was inconsistent and the team 
suffered from mental breakdowns. 
Downer commended the bench support, 
which “kept us going when we stopped 
communicating on the court.” Junior 
Lisa Leonardo felt that “Our toughest 
competition this week was ourselves.” 
The team lost a close match with 
Marietta, 15-10 and 15-11, and fought 
hard before falling 16—14 to 
Elizabethtown. At other points, though, 
the Tartans didn’t look as strong. Al­
legheny soundly defeated the team 15-
2 and 15-4.
The inconsistent play was especially 
evident against Rochester. The first 
game was a close 15-9 loss, but, by the
second game, the Tartans were ex­
hausted and fell 15-3. The Tartans will 
see the Rochester team again in the 
University Athletic Association cham­
pionships on September 27 and 28. Al­
though the Tartans lost to them at Al­
legheny, the team feels that Rochester 
definitely looks beatable.
The Tartans lost in their first home 
tri-match on Tuesday. In the first match 
of the tournament, Bethany, a good 
defensive team, defeated the Tartans in 
three straight sets. Pitt-Johnstown also 
won, taking the first three of the best- 
of-five series, against a Tartan team 
that was both physically and mentally 
exhausted.
Part of the exhaustion came about 
because of a misunderstanding about a 
rule change from last year. Before the 
start of the season, the NCAA had ruled 
that all conference matches must be 
best-of-five; however, the Tartans mis­
“We can’t get used to losing.”
—junior Lisa Leonardo
understood the rule, believing that all 
matches, conference and non-confer­
ence, had to be best-of-five.
The implications of this were obvious 
during Tuesday’s action. The team 
played hard for nearly two hours against 
Bethany, sat out for two and a half 
hours while Bethany battled Pitt- 
Johnstown, and then played the Pitt 
team. They began play at six in the 
evening and were not out of the gym 
until after midnight. This weekend, 
though, Fisher was told that only con­
ference, not matches against non-con­
ference opponents, need to be best of 
five.
In upcoming action, Carnegie Mellon
travels to Washington and Jefferson on 
Tuesday and will participate in a tour­
nament at Washington and Lee thi§ 
weekend. Sophomore Jennifer New be­
lieves that this week “has to be thè 
turning point. We must make changes 
now.” Leonardo added, “We can’t make 
excuses anymore. We can’t get used to 
losing.”
The team, while disappointed with 
their performance thus far, has hope for 
the remainder of the season. They real­
ize that they have the skills and thè 
talent to be a winning team, if they can 
get it together mentally on the court. As 
New said, “There is really no team that 
we can’t beat.”
1N8d0
OPTICAL 
SAVE 20% 
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam: 
Our computerized eye exame provides a detailed optometric 
profile. The result... confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories: 
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, 
and you get Dalmos assurance of the highest quality 
andaccuracy in the industry.
The New Vision — In frames and Contracts: 
Selection. It's the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo 
Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in 
frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Disposable Con­
tacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America 
Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Squirrel Hill 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521-2100
AN INVITATION TO GO ABROAD
CARNEGIE MELLON CENTRE DE TOURS
The Loire Valley-the cradle of French art and literature 
Tours—the home of our university’s first study abroad center
Picture yourself in the heart of France’s chateau country—studying exciting subjects; meeting new friends at 
one of Tours’ many outdoor cafes; biking or hiking through the 
beautiful hillsides of the Loire Valley; and most importantly, 
enriching your undergraduate college experience by learning 
another culture.
All Carnegie Mellon students are encouraged to study at your 
Centre de Tours. Costs are about the same as studying in 
Pittsburgh, and the academic program is designed—when 
possible—so your won’t lose time in meeting graduation 
requirements. Applicants should have the equivalent of 
one-year of university level French.
NEW STREAMLINED APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE IN 
THE OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION 
219 SMITH HALL (BEHIND HAMBURG HALL)
IMPORTANT INFORMATION 
MEETING ON TOURS BAKER HALL, ADAMSON WING 5:30 P.M.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1991 
MARK YOUR CALENDAR!
THE RIDE BOARD
This year The Tartan will start providing a new service to the campus community — a ride board.
The ride board will run before breaks and will be a place for students to find and offer rides to their destinations 
We will accept notices from any member of the campus community with valid CMU ID and print it free of charge.
We encourage submissions to the ride board in the following catagories:
Rides Offered 
Rides Needed 
Share a Cab 
Ticket Exchange
The first ride board will run on September 23. Deadline for submissions is Thursday, September 19 at 5 pm. Submissions 
must be made to The Tartan office in person. IDs will be checked.Participants assume full responsibility for rides, and arrange 
them at their own risk.

---------------------------------------------------

Ruth Ann Omer, RE. 
The Gateway EngineersObtaining your sPeaker Professional
Engineering
License
PH 100
Tuesday, September 17, 199 
4:30 pm
Where:
When:
Time:
Sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers
Refreshments will be served
Junior guard Rich Wilson (65) clears a path for senior halfback Greg Marmol.
Men’s soccer posts first win
MEN’S SOCCER, from page 11
Bears scoreless down the stretch.
“We play a counter-attack 
game,” said Gaudioso. “Which 
means that if you score one goal, 
you play for a 1-0 win. They were 
iosing, so they were on the offen­
sive. We were winning, so we 
concentrated on defense.”
The Tartans also played tough 
defense in a rain-soaked contest
with Pitt Tuesday night, but 
came up just short. Tartan 
defensemen held the Panthers 
to only a few shots and rendered 
them scoreless the entire first 
half.
But in the second half, the 
Panthers got all the offense they 
would need. After back-to-back 
shots on goal by Pitt midfielders 
Eric Prex and J.R. Perdue, Don
INFORMATION
SHARING
November 7, 1991 
7:00 p.m. 
Skibo Hall 
Room 12
ON-CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
November 8th
Register by 
submitting your 
resume to the 
Placement Office 
by September 27th.
A Unique Consulting Firm
Hewitt Associates
is visiting Carnegie Mellon
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and actuaries specializing in the design, financing, communication, and administration of employee benefit and compensation programs. We are included in the publications The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America and The Best Companies for Women.
We aré interested in students with the following majors:
Applied Mathematics 
Economics 
Industrial Management 
Operations Research 
or other 
Quantitative Majors
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and intelligent; people who work well together. Our challenge is to identify and develop those people who can respond to the opportunities of today and tomorrow.
Hewitt Associates
Rowayton, CT • Boston. MA • Bedminster, NJ Lincolnshire, 1L • Santa Ana. CA • Walnut Creek, CA Atlanta GA • Las Colinas, TX • The Woodlands. TX
An equal opportunity employer m(f
zone again until the 12:40 mark 
in the fourth quarter, when 
Mangano heaved his first career 
touchdown pass, a 32-yarder, to 
sophomore receiver Andy Van 
Sprang. The drive began after 
sophomore defensive lineman 
Shane Billings recovered a 
Tommie Pearson fumble at the 
Bears’ 34.
“I really needed that,” said 
Mangano. “I haven’t had a touch­
down pass in the four years that 
I’ve played here. It was nice to 
have a quick drive and put points 
on the board.”
After Wash U. scored twice, 
the Tartan defense recovered and 
held the Bears scoreless for the 
rest of the game. Junior defen­
sive lineman JasonLange sacked 
Gregory on two consecutive plays 
for losses of ten and five yards 
respectively, pushing the Bears 
back to their own 25.
“Jason came up with two great 
sacks,” said Lackner. “If I had to 
pin a medal on someone for their 
performance, it’d be on Jason for 
that particular series. He just 
did what he had to do, and that 
put us over the top.”
‘The coaches really put me in 
the position to do what I did,” 
said Lange. “Their play calling 
freed me up. And I was fresh for 
that quarter because we pla- 
tooned d-line after d-line, so I
The Tartan defense stuffed the Washington ground attack, allowing 
only 17 yards on the ground.
wasn’t in there on every down.”
Then, on third and 25, junior 
defensive back Andy Helms in­
tercepted a Gregory pass, which 
led to the Tartans’ game-win- 
ning touchdown.
“The two breakdowns in the 
fourth quarter were a little 
scary,” said Hession. “But the 
coaches got us together and 
calmed us down, and we came 
back strong.”
The win boosted the Tartans’ 
record to 1-1 overall, 1-0 UAA. 
This Saturday, they face another 
UAA opponent as they travel to 
Chicago to take on the Univer­
sity of Chicago Maroons. Game 
time is 1:30 pm.
“We struggled a little bit,” said 
Mangano. “But hopefully we’ll 
keep on building on wins and 
doing positive things to make lis 
a better football team.”
Overmier put the ball past 
Shapiro to give the Panthers a 1- 
0 win.
The Tartans take their 1-2-0 
(1-1 in the Association) record 
on the road, travelling to Vir­
ginia on Friday to play Washing­
ton & Lee University, and to 
Maryland on Saturday for a game 
against Johns Hopkins Univer­
sity.
football • soccer • rodeo • cross country • golf? cow tipping • swimming • basketball • dwarf tossing,
• intramurals • heyewie • lacrosse • ultimate frisbee • dueling • baseball •football • soccer • rodeo.
• crosscountry • golf• <y»» t^pin a ¦'swimming ‘basketball • dwarf tossing • intramurals • sleep'
• lacrosse ? ultimate frisbi ^ct^all • cross country • golf
cow tipping • swimming &<iMdhiiGLjLfioshia£ l^il^Jkjfc-ClricAei • lacrosse • ultimate' 
frisbee • dueling • baseball • football • soccer • rodeo • Svss country • golf* cow tipping • swimming'
• basketball • dwarf tossing • intramurals • bass fishing • lacrosse • ultimate frisbee • dueling •' 
baseball • football • soccer • rodeo • cross country • golf • cow tipping • swimming • basketball
Interested in writing sports? Call x2111 and ask for Jason McDonald.;
TCI Cable U. An Entertainment Institution.
Let Us Cable U. for only $10.00.
An Institution of Higher Entertainment.
College can't be all work and no play. And after you’ve learned everything possible 
about calculus or philosophy, there comes a time when you have to take a break and 
relax a little.
So if you live off-campus, you'll want to take advantage of this special back-to- 
school offer from TCI and get cable installed for only ?io.oo.
You'll see the latest movies, music, concerts, sports and more... nonstop, 21 hours a 
day. Call today to enroll at Cable U. and get $04.44 Cable Installation.
Q28-883I
TCI -We'reTakingTelevision Into Tomorrow.
rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSb bv
FOOTBALL, from page 11
The Tartans didn’t find the end
Tartans overtake Washington latefor first UAA win

---------------------------------------------------

b-rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSb
IM ScoreboardPA rumble features has- 
been vs. never-will-be
Well, not too surprisingly, my 
first prediction of the season was 
wrong. The Washington 
Redskins proved more dominant 
than I expected. But, that’s okay, 
I expect about one error every 
year. I just used it up too early.
The Denver Broncos still refuse 
;to sign Bobby Humphries, the 
best running back that the fran­
chise has seen in decades. In 
deciding that Humphries isn’t 
worth what his agent feels he is, 
Denver has also chosen not to let 
him go cheaply into that good 
night. Only for a number one 
draft pick will they release him. 
Odds are that Denver won’t find 
a taker, and Humphries will 
probably sit out the year.
McMahon has lost his magic, 
and proved it when lowly Phoe­
nix — minus a starting quarter­
back of their own—defeated the 
Eagles at Veterans Stadium. De­
troit, after losing game one rather 
ignominiously to the Redskins, 
decidedly beat the struggling 
Packers last week. Look for the 
Lions to survive the season and 
contend for the NFC Central 
crown.
Tonight, the Kansas City 
Chiefs travel to the Houston As­
trodome to take on the Warren 
Moon Red Gun offense. The Oil-
NFL FOOTBALL
by Dave Martin
ers are laying history on the line, 
cominginto the game undefeated 
aftertwo games. The Oilers have 
never gone 3-0 to start a season 
in the franchise’s history. Kan­
sas City would like to rebound 
from a loss last week to the New 
Orleans Saints. The more wins 
the Chiefs can manage early in 
the season, the better their 
chance in the long run in the 
fairly competitive AFC West. The 
Oilers, too, could use victories to 
forge a dominance in the AFC 
Central. Look for the Oilers to 
win in a good game, Houston 24, 
Kansas City 20.
Sunday, the Washington 
Kedskins will pay a visit to the 
Cincinnati Bengals. As much as 
it may pain me to say it, the 
Redskins shouldn’t have many 
problems taming the Bengals. 
Skins 34, Pussycats 10.
A meaningful NFC East
matchup takes place in Phoenix 
when the Cowboys stroll into 
town after losing to the Redskins. 
The Cardinals are undefeated so 
far this season behind second 
stringer Tom Tupa. I’d like to see 
them go 3-0, but I kind of doubt 
it. Cowboys 21, Cards 17.
In the rest of the action around 
the league, things should look 
like this: the Giants over the 
inconsistent Kosar and the 
Browns, Denver over the Charg­
ers, Buffalo big in Tampa Bay, 
Detroit over the Colts, whose 
engines haven’t started, Miami 
easily over Green Bay, Kansas 
City to whip up on Seattle in a 
relatively unimportant AFC 
West matchup, New Orleans over 
Minnesota, the Rams in a close 
game over the Niners at Candle­
stick Park, Houston to destroy 
New England.
The Steelers take on the Eagles 
in Philadelphia this weekend, in 
a battle between quarterbacks 
who suck. McMahon is long past 
his prime; Bubby never reached 
his, but the Steelers have fresher 
talent, which should be the dif­
ference. Bubby, 31; Jim, 21.
Tartan staffwriter Dave Mar­
tin is a sophomore psychology 
major.
Tartan cross country runners 
continue early season roll
By JASON WYSE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s cross country teams put to­
gether two more very strong performances this 
weekend. The women’s team won a four-team meet 
at the University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown. That 
same day at the California Invitational, held at 
California University of Pennsylvania, the men’s 
team competed with fifteen other teams. The A 
team won first place in Division III and placed 
third in the overall standings, while the men’s B 
team won second place in Division III and fourth 
place overall.
The coaches of both teams felt that their athletes 
performed very well. Gary Meckley, coach of the 
men’s team, remarked, “They are a very young 
team — there aren’t any heroes, but they all listen 
well and practice hard.”
Counseling & Student Development Center
Morewood Gardens — E Tower 
268-2922
Crisis Intervention 
Individual Psychotherapy 
Referrals from Health Services
Consultation 
Assessment & Referral 
Sexual Assault Counseling 
Groups: Support Groups for International Students, Making Friends and Stress 
Reduction through relaxation; Therapy Groups for Graduate Students and Acquantance 
Rape Survivors
Hours by Appointment 
Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours 
After-hours Emergency Service
Division of Student Affairs
Pizza delivers. 
So does Pizza g 
But, only the Original ^ 
Shop offers the $2.99
16Cheese Pizza(Offer not good for delivery)
Phone 621-0435 
Original Hot Dog Shop and Top of the "O"
Comer of Forbes Avenue and Bouquet Street in Oakland
The Original Hours : Sunday thru Thursday, 9 AM - 4:30 AM, 
Friday & Saturday, 9 AM - 6 AM 
The Top of the "O" Hours : Daily I ] AM - 2 AM
TOUCH FOOTBALLBarcrawlers01DIVISION C
DTD10
MAJORSDIVISION CECE Drams10
Black Mafia10Beta B Like Mike10Mr. Softee’s00
PIKA A10Kingsmen10TX Underground00
Beta00NP Completions10Mobsters01
GSIA Gators00Phi Kap B00SAE A01
ATO00TX Penguins00
Bruisers01Shirley Surehands01DIVISION D
SEI Renegades01DU A01Sirbu's10
Team Black01Beta Wayward Sons10
INTERMEDIATEPiKAC10
MINORSTac Nukes00
DIVISION ARRR Roosters01
SAE10DIVISION APioneers02
Future Corporate...10DU B10
C-Men10Sig Tau10DIVISION E
Onyx00Athletic Supporters10KDR10
ATO01Venom10PiLam10
Zoo A0.1Almost Done02GNC Supplements00
Apathy01Fly Navy02CIA00
Schlag Inmates01
DIVISION BDIVISION BZoo B01
USS Carnegie10Helpers10
Heavy & the Guys10Green Aces11WOMEN ONLY
ASA00Juan Valdez00Dee Gee00
Kappa Sig A00TX Randall00D Navy W00
Capitalist Pigs00Kappa Sig B00Spirit00
Phi Kap A01JGBD01Stephanie's Team00
The first-place runner on the men’s team, for the 
second week in a row, was sophomore Jim Langer. 
“He didn’t do all that well in high school,” said 
Meckley, “but he’s an example of what working 
hard and running over the summer can do.”
Junior Brad Shapiro was the second Tartan 
runner to cross the finish line, followed by juniors 
Scott Phillips and Rich Hayes.
Dario Donatelli, coach of the women’s team, felt 
that the competition at Johnstown was good be­
cause it prepared his team for the upcoming meet 
at Indiana University of Pennsylvania this week­
end. He said that the meet was “a good race for 
experience,” especially for two new team mem­
bers, junior Wendy Evans and sophomore Aliza 
Hildebrand. Evans took fifth place and Hildebrand 
grabbed sixth. Top runners for the women’s team 
were senior Carolyn Lowe, who won first place, 
and junior Laura Sibley, who placed second.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Commissioners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — John Supp,
x8699
Minors — Mike Gryzwinski, 
361-6613
Women Only — Molly . 
McDermott, 682-3529 
Please pick up schedules at 
the IM office and play all games 
as scheduled. Standings will be 
posted on the IM bulletin board 
and in The Tartan. The IM de­
partment is still looking for offi­
cials for touch football.
Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Walsh, x4656 
Matches begin today; please 
check the IM bulletin board for 
playing schedules. Turn in all 
scores to the commissioner or 
the IM office. All matches must 
be completed by October 19 due 
to a scheduled repair of the ten-
IM News
nis courts.
Faculty-Staff Tennis
Commissioner 
E.J. Birdy, x2214 
Games will be played every 
weekday at noon.
Golf
Commissioner 
Gregg Orrill, x4221 
The 1991 E.J. Birdy Open golf 
tournament will be held Sunday, 
September 22, at the Schenley 
Park golf course. Tee off anytime 
after 7 am. Sign in at the Pro 
Shop to get a scorecard, and turn 
your card in to the IM office within 
48 hours after the tournament.
Green fees are $8; clubs may be 
rented for $5. You may pre-regis­
ter or register the day of the 
event. Individual and four-per­
son team entries will be accepted.
Co-rec Volleyball
Commissioner 
Jenni Lee, x4019 
Games begin today; please
check the IM bulletin board for 
schedules, or pick up a schedule 
in the IM office.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Cross Country
Commissioner 
John Supp, x8699 
The date of the cross country 
meet has not yet been set. The 
race will be run in Schenley Park 
and will be 1.9 miles long. Tean 
or individual entries are still be­
ing accepted.
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Mike Kappus, x5302 •
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. Certified lifeguards will 
be on duty for all scheduled 
matches.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
BAeLLl3ltx
ADOPTION
Loving, secure, married, Caucasian couple 
wants very much to give your newborn a 
warm and happy home. Expenses paid. 
For more information call collect after 6pm 
(814) 833-8215.
JJOUSING
JOBS... CONT'DMise
Oakland next to CMU; Five rooms plus 
bath (three bathrooms); Immediate; $390 
plus utilities; 521-8736.
JOBS
Club Leaders for Young Judea. Respon­
sible, creative, likes working with children. 
September - April employment, Sunday 
meeting. Salary+expenses. Licensed Driver, 
over 21. Call Y.J. Regional Office - 521- 
4877.
BABYSITTER / HOUSEKEEPER in Squirrel 
Hill. Own transportation. Non-smoker. For 
21/2-year-old boy. Friendly dog. $4/hour. 
Need 2 hours daily on Tuesday, Thursday, 
'and Saturday. Monday and Friday 11:30- 
6:30. Wednesday 11:30-10:00. Call 521- 
7017 if you can help during all or some of 
these times. References and strong child 
development background required.
Wanted: A reliable babysitter (male or 
female) for my 7-month-old son. 2 to 3 
days per week. 4 to 5 hours per day. $5 per 
hour. Must have transportation to my home 
(located approximately 20 minutes from 
campus). If interested please call 241 -3598.
Delivery Drivers. MetroPizza, Oakland, 
seeking drivers, all shifts. Call 563-5032.
If you act soon, next week the 
classifieds could be communicat­
ing your message to 7000 people. 
Send your ad with payment to- 
day.___________________________
Five (5) openings in our convenient 
Shadyside office, raising funds for various 
police organizations. Salary to start. Part- 
time, evenings. Flexible schedules to 
accomodate students. CALL: 363-4953 for 
appointment.
Earn Fabulous FREE Spring Break Vaca­
tion while meeting new people and earn­
ing cash. Work at your own pace. Ener­
getic, highly motivated, outgoing indi­
viduals needed. Call Bob at Campus Holi­
days 1-800-627-4791 between 5pm-10pm 
CST.
CompuSearch needs campus rep. 5 hrs 
per week. No selling. Great pay. Call Gor­
don 1-800-284-3842.
Child care / light housekeeping. Part 
time. Squirrel Hill. Near transportation. 
Non-smoker. References. 521-4032.
ADDRESSERS WANTED immediately! No 
experience necessary. Process FHA mort­
gage refunds. Work at home. Call 1-405- 
321-3064.
Travel Sales Representative. STS, the 
leader in collegiate travel, needs motivated 
individuals and groups to promote Winter/ 
Spring Break trips. For information call 
Student Travel Services, Ithaca, NY at 1- 
800-648-4849.
Gain experience in sales/marketing, or 
in software development. Two immediate 
openings: Administrative Assistant, Pro­
grammer (must be proficient in C lan­
guage), 8-15 hours/week, flexible. Wages 
negotiable. PA work/study helpful but not 
necessary. Fifteen minute walk from CMU. 
Send resumes to DSA, 5400 Howe Street, 
Suite #6,15232.
FOOLPROOF FUNDRAISING Raise $500 
... $1000 ... $1500 For your fraternity, 
sorority, team or other campus organiza­
tion. Absolutely no investment required! 
Act now for the chance to win a Caribbiari 
cruise and fabulous prizes! CALL 1-800- 
950-8472, ext. 50.
Free Scholarship Information forstudents 
Please call for free brochure. Results guar­
anteed. 1-800-937-1797 Ext. 14.
Student Activists! Be part of the solutior 
not part of the problem! Greenpeace Ac 
tion is hiring committed individuals to enc 
environmental atrocities. FT/PT activis 
positions. Progressive environment. Cal 
for interview M-F 10-6 421-7344.
Fast Fundraiser 1000 in 1 Week. Greeks 
Clubs, or ANYONE. No Investment. (800) 
748-6817 Ext. 50.
STUDENT LOANS No income restrictions 
Long Term and low interest loans avail 
able. Call (201) 702-0117.
Earn free travel!! with the fewest sales tc 
Jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas plus earn extri 
$$$ Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710.
Send your ad with payment today. 
See your ad in print next week!
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$3.00 / wk
21-50 words.........$5.00 / wk
50-100 words......$8.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date. 
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 86, Issue 3The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania16 September 1991
r« o p Ins
Toasting 85 Years of Theatre
Mick Sutter, senior 
professional writing 
major and alumni Christian 
Matyi, Tye Comer, and Laura Lind 
perform in the Scotch ’N'Soda's 1990 
production of Trapped in the Silver Screen.
Christy Moore, sophomore 
political science major; and Azmeer 
Salleh, CIT freshman Improvise during a 
Scotch 'N' Soda workshop.
jBmiBa &R. jmxe BtAtuneitL liL U(ia Eten
ByMARNIBOREK formances consisted of musical revues 1965, Scotch CN’ Soda performed geons and dragons” musicals such as the organization would like toBy MARNIBOREK
Acting Features Editor
Scotch ‘1ST Soda has been acting, sing­
ing, and entertaining for eighty-five 
years. As one of the campus’ longest 
standing organizations, the performing 
group has brought music and comedy to 
its audiences over many years. The club 
has managed to outlive two world wars, 
membership losses, and financial prob­
lems to become one of Carnegie Mellon’s 
most recognized campus organizations. 
Here's a "shot" of Scotch ‘N’ Soda’s his­
tory, mapping the club’s beginning to its 
most recent status:
•1906 —The White Friars, the origi­
nal form of Scotch ‘N’ Soda, formed on 
the Carnegie Tech campus. Their per­
formances consisted of musical revues 
and barbershop quartets. The group’s 
activities were temporarily halted dur­
ing the World War I years.
•1937 — There was a school cam­
paign to change the name of the organi­
zation to something that would honor 
Carnegie’s Scottish heritage. The White 
Friars renamed themselves Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda.
•1939-41— Scotch‘N5 Soda performed 
colossal musical revues at the Carnegie 
Museum. Their shows were accompa­
nied by fifty-piece orchestras. The group 
fell apart again with the onset of World 
War II, temporarily.
•1960-67 — The club abandoned its 
musical revues and adopted the forms of 
contemporary American musicals. In
1965, Scotch CN’ Soda performed 
Whatsherface, the first show on which 
Lawrence Stevens (later known as 
Steven Schwartz) was believed to work. 
In 1967, the group performed Stevens' 
Pippin Pippin, which became a hit mu­
sical as Pippin on Broadway in 1972.
•1976 — Glitz, a version of a 1930 
Hollywood musical, was performed. The 
musical contained satirical skits about 
such serious novels as Nathaniel 
Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter. Scotch 
‘N’ Soda membership floundered due to 
the new CFA dean’s announcement that 
theater students were not to be involved 
in any productions outside the Drama 
Department.
•1980 — Scotch ‘N’ Soda got back on 
its feet and performed a series of “dun­
geons and dragons” musicals such as 
Queen of the Kings Krown.
•1985 — Zelda, a production about 
author F. Scott Fitzgerald’s wife, left the 
club in dire financial straits. The group 
lost several thousand dollars.
•1986 — A strong new club adminis­
tration brought in money for Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda productions.
•1988 — Scotch ‘N’ Soda introduced 
Improv 88-EveningExplosion. The show 
was a huge success, and sold out on all 
performance nights .
•1990 — A full-blown musical com­
edy, Trapped in the Silver Screen, was 
performed.
•1991 — During Carnival weekend 
D’Artegan was performed. The show was 
a big step toward the type of productions
the organization would like to do — 
serious musicals.
Today, Scotch *N’ Soda continues to 
strive for excellence in bringing creativ­
ity to all of its productions and pleasing 
its audiences. The organization puts on 
three fall shows and one large produc- 
tionin April. Besides offering workshops 
in acting for those interested in perform­
ing, Scotch ‘N’ Soda offers workshops in 
writing scripts, directing, and improvis­
ing. The organization also encourages 
students to submit scripts for musicals.
As a celebration of irs 85th anniver­
sary, Scotch 'N' Soda will perform a 
musical revue featuring songs from pro­
ductions of the last fifty years. The en­
thusiasm and ambition of the group has 
certainly not aged over the years.
International Festival on Asia brings culture to campus
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In a world full of constant 
change and conflicts, it is some­
times difficult to understand and 
appreciate the cultures of other 
nations. From October22-26, Car­
negie Mellon’s Division of Stu­
dent Affairs and various other 
campus organizations will take 
the first step in filling that cul­
tural gap with the International 
Festival on Asia. The festival will 
include music, dance, art, and 
films of Asia.
Organized by Aliya Khan from 
Student Affairs, the International 
Festival will present the many 
aspects of forty Asian countries. 
Skibo will be transformed into a 
cultural showcase for the Asian
festivities.
The Festival will be organized 
into several different theme fairs
— one on each of the four days. 
The first part of the festival will 
be the Information Booth Fair, 
where organizations and students 
will present facts and figures 
about each of the forty countries.
The second fair is the Study 
and Career Abroad Fair orga­
nized by CMU’s Office of Interna­
tional Education. Several univer­
sities, including CMU and the 
University of Pittsburgh, will 
present information and answer 
questions about their study 
abroad programs in Asia and 
other areas. The next fair is the 
Crafts and Artisans Fair, where 
crafts will be displayed and be 
made available for purchase.
To close the festival, there will 
be the Asian Food Fair. At least 
five different local restaurants 
will cater the likes of Thai, Fili­
pino, Indian, Lebanese, and Chi­
nese foods to the CMU campus.
Several distinguished speakers 
will also highlight the extensive 
list of activities planned for the 
week. Xiapo Huang, a professor 
at Prince ton University, will start 
off the Festival speaking about 
censorship in China. Sayyed 
Hossain Nasr, a professor at 
George Washington University, 
will speak about the Islamic 
World, and Maramutso Yafuko, 
a professor at Christian Univer­
sity, will speak on women’s stud­
ies in Japan.
Following suit, Avishai 
Margolit, a professor at Hebrew
University in Israel, will discuss 
the Arab-Israeli conflict. Another 
speaker, Dr. Hahn-Been Lee, 
chairman of the Technology and 
Science Institute of Korea, will 
address the effects of European 
economics and the Russian po­
litical situation on Asia.
Artists will also abound 
throughouttheFestival. Included 
willbeexoticmusicperformances, 
paper cutting, and traditional 
Japanese tea ceremonies. High­
lights include performances by 
Oopalee Operajita, a renowned 
Indian dancer, and performances 
of songs and dances from ten 
Asian countries by the Pittsburgh 
International Folk Theatre.
In additionto dance and tea cer­
emonies are performances of Per­
sian song, and Iranian music by
tambuk and santur players.
For those interested in more 
straightforward informational 
events, there will be presenta­
tions by the Peace Corps and the 
National Conference of Chris­
tians. Hunt Institute and the 
Carnegie Museum of Art have 
created displays about the art of 
the different Asian countries. 
There will also be general infor­
mation presented on Asia.
Aided by the UN Missions in 
New York and Embassies in 
Washington D.C., and campus, 
religious, and Pittsburgh commu­
nity organizations, Khan, the Fes­
tival Coordinator, has been well- 
supported throughout her en­
deavors.
The International Festival 
projec has also CMU President
Robert Mehrabian involved as 
well. He has organized an Inter­
national Awareness Committee, 
under the auspices of History De- 
partment Chairman Peter 
Steams, to research the state of 
international culture on campus. 
The committee is considering 
making Latin America the theme 
of next year’s festival, and would 
eventually like to add some world 
culture requirements to the CMU 
curriculum.
The success ofthe International 
Festival will hopefully lead to fu­
ture cultural projects. Each new 
festival will deal with a different 
section of the globe. Explained 
Khan enthusiastically, “The fes­
tival is the first step toward 
greater campus awareness of in­
ternational culture.”
Cast 
members 
of Scotch 
‘N’ Soda's 
1941 produc­
tion of Here’s to 
Vou strike a pose.
CMU alumni Steve 
Smith, Donna Marvin, 
Andrew Pople, Jamie 
Adams, Martin Hughes, 
and Jeri Nagler perform in 
Scotch 'N' Soda's 1981 
production of You're a Good 
Man, Charlie Brown.

---------------------------------------------------

Y—A3lAA eAA Em—n Bmyy—slBeilmsL 
nt7—lntytsiL hlia mst Bm—nLtW
AT&T STUDENT SAVER PLUSIf you’re looking for a simple way to handle all of your communications needs, there’s one prerequisite. Join AT&T Student Saver Plus. You’ll be able
to/
get an entire line of products and services designed specifically to save college students time and money ? Our Reach Out® America Calling Planstcould
save you money, no matter where and when you call. Call Managers will save you time by separatingD
l:;1 ¦ v s; -your long distance calls from your roommates’ calls, for
free. And the AT&T Calling Card* makes it easy to call83b ooo'.vÌ8a';iì'i?from almost anywhere to anywhere. ? And with AT&T, you’ll always get the most reliable long
distance service. ? Plus, if you register for any of our services-or if you’re already an AT&T customer-you’ll get afree hour’s worth of AT&T long distance
calling* * As well as discounts on all kinds of things, all year round. ? So ask about AT&T Student Save)' Plus. You’ll find that for this communications course, we did our homework.
Join AT&T Student Saver Plus today. Call 1 800 654-0471 Ext. 4810. aAT&T
i This service is available lor oll-campus students only.
•In addition, campus residents may place direct-dialed calls using university and AT&T ACUS™ Service.
Thisamo00 h0Ur 01 dl,CCl'dia,ed'coasMocoasl- ni9ht nnd weekend calling, based on prices affective 2/16/91. Oiler limited to one $0.25 AT&T Long Distance Certilicate per student. Oiler valid through June 30.1992.

---------------------------------------------------

rat renies w Ienstolt dtAAms w bp jtcityutn bSSb8v
^—ymn lycelntx henstx eum—i g—E jylAtE
I was thrilled to see my name in one of 
The Tartan’s letters to the editor last 
week. So what if perceptive freshman 
Larry Mathers had some harsh words to 
say about my column “Is the World Ready 
for the Age of Geek Steroids?” (9/3). His 
letter is still documented proof that in 
the two years I’ve been writing this col­
umn, someone actually looked at the 
text before using it as a dropcloth for a 
caged parakeet. That’s why I returned 
the favor and really thought deeply about 
Mathers' critical words before setting 
Polly free to flutter above them. And ya 
know, a lot of them made sense.
First, Mathers said that the column 
mentioned above “makes ridiculous 
claims about the possible dangers of 
serotin, a new chemical that has been 
shown to enhance memory in laboratory 
rats.”
Then Mathers lunged for the jugular 
by revealing evidence of my flimsy argu­
ment. “[Cosentino] argues that if the 
chemical reaches the black market, many 
students will seek it in hopes of enhanc-
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO PLATINUM BLONDES?
by Andrew Cosentino
ing their memory power, and that their 
abuse of serotin would cause their fore­
heads to swell to ‘three or four times the 
size of Guy Smiley’s.’ ”
Finally, Mathers hammers the last 
nail into my coffin with a bitingly witty, 
“Unfortunately for Cosentino,” hammer, 
hammer, hammer, “his argument lacks 
factual support and fails to draw a logi­
cal conclusion.”
I must admit my utter embarrass­
ment over being caught with my jour­
nalistic pants down after ignoring my
“responsibility to the truth.” Especially 
since just last Saturday night I was 
watching the news and found myself 
having similar gripes concerning pro­
fessionalism in reporting as those ex­
pressed in the letter to the editor. My 
intelligence was particularly insulted 
when the anchor reported, “I’m Dennis 
Miller, and you’re not,” a statement 
which was irresponsible, lacked factual 
support, and failed to draw a logical 
conclusion.
But let’s talk a minute about responsi­
bility. Should I really be responsible for 
people who develop some kind of mental 
anguish due to reading a paragraph in a 
newspaper which describes the side ef­
fects of a drug in terms of hand puppet 
Guy Smiley’s forehead? If I had chosen 
Grover to make the analogy, would it 
have made any difference? Would po­
tential users of serotin have taken to the 
woods in fear of blossoming a thick coat 
of blue fur and a crimson proboscis? 
Current research on this problem says 
the answer is yes.
According to columnist Dave Barry, 
there are people in this world afflicted 
with the handicap “humor impairment.” 
After receiving piles of mail from read­
ers who, because of their handicap, were 
looking for factual support instead of 
laughing, Barry decided to make his 
column closed captioned for the humor 
impaired.
He explains that “after each attempted 
joke, the humor element will be explained 
in parentheses, so that you humor im­
paired individuals can laugh right along 
with the rest of us. Ready? Here we go.” 
What Barry fails to realize is that he can 
make all the fun he wants, but in a court 
of law, he is responsible for the miscon­
ceptions of his humor impaired readers 
just as I am.
I remember reading a column in the 
Pittsburgh Press (9/5) saying that under 
the law a person can no longer be stupid 
—-it’s got to be someone else’s fault. The 
column revolved around a guy who got 
loaded drinking beer at a Steelers game, 
tried to ride an escalator handrail, fell
off the handrail, got hurt, and is trying 
to sue Three Rivers for $20,000 because 
they allowed him to drink so much and 
because there were no signs saying not 
to hang from the escalator handrail, 
sixty feet above the ground.
Press columnist Brian O’Neill suggests 
that “what’s really needed is a sign to be 
worn by sports fans: Approach with ex­
treme caution. I may get drunk and sue 
you.”
Therefore, since no one can do some­
thing stupid or be stupid anymore, it’s 
time I protected myself against the hu­
mor impaired, for which I’m completely 
responsible:
This column is for the sole use of enter­
tainment by the non-humor impaired. 
Any other use or accounts of this column 
without the expressed written consent 
of major league baseball is prohibited;
Tartan staffwr iter Andy Cosentino is a 
junior professional writing major who is 
currently doing research on Sesame 
Street puppets' proboscises.students will seek it in hopes ofenhanc- nalistic pants down after ignoring my the answer is yes. tried to ride an escalator handrail, fell Street puppets proboscises.
Y’all yinzers ain’t no genuine Southerners, and that
A few very long weeks ago, as --  “Aw, shit, you can fry a damn n ~A few very long weeks ago, as 
the freshmen began to file into 
the University, I sat quietly in 
Skibo waiting for a friend. A group 
of several preoccupied newcom­
ers sat down in the chairs beside 
me, and began to make small talk 
with each other — as most ner­
vous freshmen tend to do. The 
topic of conversation floated past 
me.
However, the conversation did 
eventually gain my attention. One 
girl asked a guy where he was 
from. “Johnstown,” he said. She 
said she was from Youngstown. 
Another girl said she was from 
Pittsburgh.
“Wow,” said one girl, “Our ac­
cents are really different.”
“Gee,” said the guy, “You sound 
really different from me. You 
sound like a Yankee.”
‘Yeah, and you have a drawl. 
That’s pretty neat. I guess there 
are a lot of people here from all 
around.”
All around where? Youngstown, 
Ohio and Johnstown, PA are less 
than 70 miles from here. Gimme 
a break! I’m glad I ignored the 
rest of the conversation. If I hadn’t 
left to control my snickering, I 
probably would have heard the 
Pittsburgh person ask the Young­
stown person if they ate chitlins 
in their biscuits and listened to 
country music.
There is no South here. The 
only differences in accents that I 
can notice between the residents 
of Pittsburgh, Youngstown, and 
Johnstown are Yankee, Yankee, 
and Yankee. (Unless you notice 
the very strange habit of 
Pittsburghers to cut words out of 
future tense references... such as 
changing “I need to be fed” into “I 
need fed.”)
I have made much contact with 
the Pittsburgh community, so I’ve 
pretty much lost my accent. It 
was a shock to my system when I 
went home to Nashville for a week. 
I had to get used to my home all 
over again and had to change my 
complete mode of personal expres­
sion. That’s because a Nashvillian 
uses greater embellishment on 
his words to make a point: 
“Whoo, boy, it’s perty hot out
Carol Peluso 
Costumes
115 Meyran Ave.
Oakland 
Formerly H & R Block
SALES
Costumes • Masks • Wigs • 
Jewelry • Vintage Clothing 
• Makeup
Women ages 20-35 years old 
with regular menstrual periods 
are needed to participate in a 
study to look at the relationship 
between hormones and stress. 
6-8 month committment 
required. You must be able to 
furnish menstrual dates.
For more details, contact Kelly 
Prescott, R.N. at 647-1175. 
Mon. - Fri. 8 am to 4 pm.
SOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
today. I’m gittin’ a drank.” (He 
drinks a Coca-Cola with ice.)
A Pittsburgher would say this 
differently:
“Aw, shit, you can fry a damn 
egg on the sidewalk. GODdamn. I 
need drink, man.” (He drinks a 
pop.)
With th° number of very strange 
and some vhat shocked looks I 
received while back home with 
my semi-Pittsburgh accent, I had 
to deliberately censor my lan­
guage to provide just enough em­
bellishment on my words. Imag­
ine that—me censoring myself to 
fit in back home! And I always 
thought that I was so cultured.
Unfortunately, the further
There is no South here. The only differences in accents 
that I can notice between the residents of Pittsburgh, 
Youngstown, and Johnstown are Yankee, Yankee, and 
Yankee.
northeast I go, the more alien my 
own home sounds.
When I went to Philadelphia 
and New Jersey a month or so 
ago, I remember hearing two 
Pittsburghers at the pool by the
hotel. What hick accents! I’m sur­
prised they didn’t drive a pickup 
truck and eat chitlins in their 
biscuits....
Oh noooooooooooooo, not again. 
Next thing I know I will have lost
my taste for grits!!!
Tartan staffwriter Alison Carter 
is a sophomore art major who has 
recently discovered that Giant 
Eagle carries real grits.
SONY WALKMAN, AUTO 
REVERSE, MEMORY PRESETS 
BUILT-IN 7000CLOCK / /•/7
2247 _
(Mir tfWM-F2081)
‘Sales lax, delivery, or installation not included in minimum monthly payment s^"ir^0nu,rp0^!ual monthly payment can vary depending on your account balance A S700 minimum puicnase 01 qualified merchandise is required to open a SearsCharge PLUS account
328 N. HIGHLAND AVE (412) 363-9255
Each of these advertised items is readily available for sale as advertised.

---------------------------------------------------

-kVu^
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
TVtfn
v.carf pwi flv «.«n- 6fof*/•*(',
ooooo f, 31 P3J J1????! UJ u»U) uJii)dciactaooooo jiJU o oo O o31 3151 51 51
tiiiiooooo22222
DnOO
jdjujO) U> njOOO 5 T 7. 2 2.Jj U)UJU)U>adaa.ci
?i?SS
sssssrziiioOooo22ZZ2
OOnOOOOjir>y» TaTajiUJiuii31F
J22prph uiiuCiQtQfQi0000°
SSSliS
00 0 o 0 22 2-2
00a«; liiii 
sss?s
O o o 0 o 31 j) 3i y 51y. w v.ji.
uJ uj uJ “ lil ,0 i5 vD^O ? 2 2 2 2 £, u» U»^U>Stf Ot<*OfO o OO O till *
J1J15I3> T1iliii O OOO 4
J) 31 J151 ^li jilAWit
ttaa'.dotKfS 3 
£B2"f-5io r
oooooliiii000003157S731J11 2rrzooooo22222
o Ooo o 31 513'3151V ¿¿K
Uj2 uJ ¿u) Of Oi OiOO^OOiJJXi
sssss
iSSSi2222Z
0OO00 
31 5> S'SI 31 N ut r iono o o o d 31 ^^3131it JlltUji
UJvU^UivUooyoo 2 2 2 7 7u> u) UJ m UJui uJ UJm u;aaofoi
ooo0ojiiji
OOOo°5)5131 J1 31
O OO OO
¦Z.Z2 22
ri O 4 O 4
12225
I»!!Ilf
iiiii
OOOoO J151 S'3131
UllUOJujUl
!splaoioLoi^
SS|§1
i£f°fZZZZZ
OO00O313l3i<1'3i
vuu'a) dDT
SSSI?
S£ggSDoOoO
oooooS1S15151 
££§££ 22222
0O0 o d 3151 3131 31 Z^-U-lX-u

---------------------------------------------------

"Woo lworth
b^Te^TViorSoi
if® I. j#%sBb
Carnejl,ie /Moris eX^ caria
r
mJ
Nannies With Attitude

---------------------------------------------------

In college, I first learned of the newly discovered quantum 
energy from a friend who was a physics major.
Someone wants to 
speak with you.
tMynxsb -fcue ueeiA oPwof Oic.wt \be6io 
- ÎR-OMPeCS ROML , P'S A ttott.6
VxacKUgSS iftti-fS, ftoo ftiki oP Motiir.
Fodm v^sf:\<ie<->c>wr ^vUckSniMt ft^o i-ftsnot - jSUArjC'-o ^ j ^*^65 ftciittts
i-lencoc zne Puvjf, tteuews -die £>1« 
Kn (v u«<. cw'i w/en.. it JiimJy
So -
¿3oO -fco S.LSCP , CHGWoiJ of" heu / M£" 
— OHat is ifc. Y "Do oJoiODSH- - 
of uMAr SycH A f-Afc)CASW i
J Htrh 7d>!)Um

---------------------------------------------------

Miami City Ballet Keats up the Benedum Center
By MARY YEE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This Saturday at 8 pm, the Pittsburgh 
Dance Council will open its new dance 
season with a spectacular performance 
from the Miami City Ballet. Since its 
inception in 1986, the Miami City Ballet 
continues to skyrocket to the top of the 
dance world. Director Edward Villela, 
ballet mistress Elyse Bourne, and resi- 
\ dent choreographer Jimmy Gamonetde 
\ los Heros inspire with their neoclassical 
style to produce the unique Latin qual­
ity in their art form.
The evening will consist of four pieces. 
I> will open with “Rubies,” a Balanchine 
pece from the full-length piece Jewels. 
“ ‘Rubies’ was a challenge to me because 
tm counts are so difficult to Stravinsky 
music and you have the same counts,” 
sai(\Elyse Bourne, the company’s ballet 
mistress. ‘You’ve got a chore of girls and 
a chcire of boys. There is also a solo girl 
and a principle couple all doing differ­
ent things to the same music. You count 
it a little bit differently for each group so 
it was a challenge.” In fact, within twenty 
minutes, the male dancer, in particular, 
must complete 100 steps, including 
strenuous elevations and two turns in 
the air when he lands turning a comer.
Following “Rubies” will be 
Tchaikovsky’s “Pas de Deux,” another 
Balanchine work, which was originally 
composed for Swan Lake in 1875-76. 
“Of the four pieces to be presented, 
'Tchaikovsky’s ‘Pas de Deux’ is the most 
technically difficult piece on the entire 
program,” 'said Bourne. “This is 
Balanchine’s piece for two dancers in 
traditional pas dedeiix form. Variations 
and tie showy technical piece with tra­
ditional tricks make it challenging to 
achieve.” This piece was first performed 
by the New York City Ballet in 1960 
with Balanchine’s choreography. The 
Miani City Ballet performed this piece 
in its premiere, on October 17,1986, in 
Miani.
Thelatter half of the program contin­
ues wih two pieces by resident choreog­
rapher Jimmy Gamonet de los Heros. 
“NousSommes” is a pas de deux, and it 
is one of Gamonet de los Heros’ most 
romantic pieces. This acrobatic ballet is 
intense, intimate, and very emotional,
— Performance Preview —
'Th'T iTsa mhoousn At the Benedum 
Center, 207 Seventh Street, Downtown 
Pittsburgh. One performance only, Satur­
day at 8 pm. Tickets range from $15 to 
$40. To order tickets call 456-6666.
with the two dancers appearing to be 
intertwined in their movements. 
Whether they are lying on the floor or in 
mid-air, their attraction appears to leap 
beyond any boundaries. Technical de­
mands in this piece include leaps and 
graceful movements that will leave one 
astounded.
Closing the evening will be 
“Transtangos,” another Gamonet de los 
Heros work. At the request of Edward 
Villela, Gamonet created this exuber­
ant dance for the Miami City Ballet’s 
debut. “Transtangos,” the company’s 
premiere piece, is an abbreviation of 
“transition to tango.” “It’s the rhythm 
and the sensuality of the piece that 
makes it very upbeat,” said Gamonet de 
los Heros. “ ‘Transtangos’ is all very 
South American... tango-like.” The col­
orful, chic, and geometric look of the 
dance enhances its identity. Gamon* 
de los Heros, who is from Peru, uses 
many sources for his style. Music from 
Piazzola is his first source, but he also 
uses modem art and floor designs to 
bring geometries into create a colorful 
collage in another form — ballet.
Edward Villela, who is the director of 
the Miami City Ballet, provides us with 
an inside look of his love for ballet. His 
sense of humor and sensitive manner 
cries out in his story. Villela was bom in 
Queens, raised there, and started danc­
ing when he was about nine or ten, the 
same time his sister began dancing. 
“After I was hit in the back of the head 
with a baseball,” said Villela, “I got 
dragged by my mother to my sister’s 
class in order to keep meout of trouble.”
Villela, however, disrupted the class 
by sitting there while watching his 
sister’s dance lessons. The teacher told 
his mother that he was either going to 
get into tights or he was going to stay 
out. “So my mother stuck me in tights, 
and there I was, humiliated and embar­
'tcvt iter mcddbe 1b5%f5vy ltvvr icvfBbe Ob dfy Kb5fy Es5cByecBXfynC
rassed. But then, I started to enjoy it. I 
was a physical, feisty kid, and this was 
very physical stuff.” As time went by, 
Villela?s sister quit and he was also 
made to quit.
Villela was sent to military school. 
There, he earned a Bachelor of Science 
degree in the Marines, while remaining 
very active in sports. “I won letters in 
baseball and was a boxing champion 
while attending college,” said Villela. 
However, after the Marines, he didn’t 
want to go to sea. “I wanted to go back to 
dancing. I presented myself to 
Balanchine and he offered me a job at 
the New York City Ballet company. My 
parents didn’t speak to me for a year. 
After a year, I sent them tickets to our 
second season. I had three principal 
roles out of four ballets on that evening. 
From that time on, my parents became 
vital to me,” said Villela.
“I have always wanted dancing to be 
my life. I was frustrated for years in 
college and so, when I had the opportu­
nity to regain it, I never wanted to let it 
go,” explained a devoted Villela about 
his art. However, he was forced to stop 
dancing due to a major injury, which 
ended his performing life.
After his injury, Villela produced and
directed for several television program s. 
In 1975, he won an Emmy award for 
Harlequin, a children’s ballet, which he 
created. He then began to wonder what 
he wanted to do with the rest of his life. 
Villela enjoyed teaching, coaching, cho­
reography, and producing. Suddenly, 
he realized that directing would be the 
perfect opportunity to apply these 
acivities.
“I had such a good time with this art 
form that I didn’t want to leave it,” said 
Villela. “I went about learning how to be 
an artistic director.”
To stop dancing was the most difficult 
transition Villela had to make from prin­
cipal dancer to director. “Most of us are 
fine until we’re about 40,” said Villela. 
“After that, it’s not such a good idea to be 
dancing. For me to leave what I love 
most, which was dancing and perform­
ing, not only the physical act of doing, 
but performing in the investigation of 
roles and their development, made it all 
the more painful for me. It is as though 
your identity is taken away from you 
and you have to look at your life all over 
again. That’s basically what I did.”
Balanchine, who has been called a 
genius of this century in the develop­
ment of ballet, has influenced some of
courtesy Pittsburgh Dance Council
Villela’s style. “As my mentor, I have 
always been influenced by Balanchine’s 
technique, taste, style, manner, qual­
ity, and interaction. However, I believed 
to be influenced is one thing. To imitate 
is another. I was guided by his influence 
but I didn’t attempt to imitate him,” 
said Villela.
What makes the Miami City Ballet 
unique is that they respect their tradi­
tion, but they are not steeped and bur­
ied in their tradition. “Our core is neo­
classical with a Latin temperament,” 
stated Villela. “We seek to extend, but 
not distort, to develop what is still avail­
able in terms of extending the classical 
mind. Our general approach, where we 
are located, and our personnel sets us 
apart. We’re located at the southern i ip 
of [North] America and we have cross- 
cultural influences. We are influenced 
by our surroundings.”
With Latin America available, major 
art is always looking for new stimula­
tion. “This is another century, and I 
think we have to look into other areas 
for new influence. Where we are lo­
cated, and with an influx of talents 
including Peruvian resident choreogra­
pher Jimmy Gamonet de los Heros, a 
Hdbcyb ybb AhNiuG 1cXb odd
Pittsburgh Playhouse offers a wide selection of films
By ALISON GREEN
Tartan Magazine Editor
Editor’s note: This is the sec­
ond of a three-part series, in which 
local theaters are reviewed in 
search for the best theater in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Think about the most memo­
rable theaters you’ve been to, 
and what made them different 
from the others. Perhaps it’s the 
movies the theaters show that 
make them worth remembering. 
It could even be the food, the 
audience, or the theater itself 
that keeps you coming back. Far 
be it from me to suggest that 
there’s anything that compares 
to seeing a top-ten, recently-re­
leased movie in a huge theater, 
especially if it’s the first show­
ing. But there’s something about 
seeing an almost unknown movie 
in a small theater that makes 
the first two theaters worth vis­
iting and the third worth forget­
ting about.
• Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 
Craft Avenue, Oakland, 621- 
4445. Prices are $3 for the nightly 
film, $4 for the long engagement 
film. The Playhouse is a favorite 
among students, if not for the 
eclectic collection of films shown 
there, then because it’s within 
walking distance of CMU and 
Pitt. The Playhouse shows two 
movies every night; one is a long 
engagement film that is shown 
for about a week or two, and the 
other is a movie that will be 
shown for one or two nights at 
the most. As a result, you could 
go there every night of the week, 
and see something different ev­
ery time.
Speaking of seeing something 
different, the Playhouse shows a 
little bit of everything, from 
Cannes Film Festival winners to
unknown foreign films, from 
Academy Award winners to films 
that critics slayed like dragons. 
Best of all, the Playhouse shows 
Wings of Desire (one of the best 
movies ever made) every now 
and then, and the version they 
show has subtitles, thus preserv­
ing those rich, deep German 
voices. No matter what genre of 
film you like, it’s probably on the 
Playhouse monthly calendar.
Even the theater itself is fun. 
The balcony seats give you an 
excellent view of the screen, and 
the main section is so small that 
if you come late to meet friends 
at the movie, as I often do, you 
can still find them, even if the 
lights are off.
The only drawback? The con­
cessions could be better. I’ve had 
the popcorn there on several oc­
casions, and although I’ve given 
up expecting fresh popcorn frojn 
a movie theater, I’d like it to^ 
have some taste. If it’s stale, I 
want it to taste like stale pop­
corn, not Styrofoam with butter 
and salt. There’s plenty of that 
expensive boxed candy, though, 
so there’s no need to starve. On a 
five-star scale, I give the Play­
house a four and a half.
[ilmmakers at the Fulton, 
Fultqn Theater Annex, 101 Sixth 
Street, Downtown, 471-9700. 
Priced are $6 and, for senior citi­
zens and students with a valid 
college ID, $3.50. The Fulton The­
ater is the kind of place that 
people drive by, see the sign and 
say, “I really ought to go there.” 
There are always some interest­
ing independent and foreign films 
playing there, and it’s the only 
theater in Pittsburgh where all 
the films that are “only playing 
in select theaters around the 
country” go. Sure, you have to 
drive or take a bus to get there 
(and definitely take a friend), 
but the movies and the discount 
make it worth the trip.
There are two screening rooms, 
a regular-size one and a mini. 
I’ve §nly been in the regular-size 
room, which is large enough to 
finjla good seat that’s a comfort­
able distance from the screen. In 
myvopinion, the atmosphere at 
the Fulton tends to be a little 
more interesting than the Play­
house for two reasons: First, the 
Fulton is far enough from Oak­
land that you probably won’t rec­
ognize everyone in the theater; 
and second, the people seem to 
be an even more eccentric crowd, 
possibly a side effect of the 
expresso and other coffee-house- 
ish concessions available there. 
So if the movie isn’t what you 
expected it to be, you can always 
watch the people around you.
I give the Fulton four stars, a 
score that would improve if it 
were located somewhere a little 
more convenient.
• Waterworks Cinema, Wa­
terworks Mall, Fox Chapel, 366- 
2252. Prices are $3.50 until 6 
pm, and $6 after. This is a small 
version of a Cinema World — 
your standard mall theater 
setup. It’s exactly what you would 
expect from a small theater in 
terms of size and atmosphere, 
with the possible exception of a 
concession stand the size of the 
Star Wars Deathstar cockpit. 
Armed with more people ready 
and willing to serve you than you 
will ever need for anything, it 
offers good popcorn, extra butter 
(that really does taste like but­
ter!), and drinks with ice-a- 
plenty.
The Waterworks Cinema has 
nine screening rooms, and you’ll 
almost always find the movie 
you’re looking for here. The only 
problem is, will you find the the­
ater? It’s tucked away behind 
the mall with no indication of 
where the theater is except for a 
medium-sized neon sign over a 
driveway. And once you find the 
driveway, don’t even think of 
walking to the theater.
I made that mistake, and when 
my friend and I finally reached 
the building after five minutes of 
hiking up the driveway, we found 
out that there was plenty of park­
ing right outside of the theater. I 
would have been embarrassed if 
it weren’t for the fact that on our
way back to get the car, we saw 
other people walking up and even 
giving up on the driveway on the 
way there.
The theater is about average
— I give it three stars — but it 
can’t hold a candle to the Play­
house and the Fulton. If you just 
want to see the movie, or if you 
feel compelled to witness the fu­
ture of concession stand mainte­
nance, go ahead and go to the 
Waterworks Cinema.
Going to a theater is about
more than just going to see a 
movie. All of the things that make 
a theater memorable, like the 
concessions and the atmosphere, 
as well as the film, are an impor­
tant part of a night at the mov­
ies. If you’re looking for an 
evening out, and you really want 
to enjoy yourself, go to a theater 
where you’ll have more to take in 
and talk about than the movie.
Next week: The conclusion of 
the cinematic explorer.

---------------------------------------------------

m th Annual Carnegie Mellon Graduate School Fair
Tuesday. September 24. 1991 
Skibo Ballroom 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM
The (¡ratinale School l-'iiir provides 
stiiikMitsttiihiheoppornmity to meet 
with representatives of graduate 
schools ¡nul ilisciiss academic 
prograiiisaiul scholarship/fellowship 
inïormalion.
American Graduate School or International Management
Benjamin Cardoio School of I .a»
California School of Profesional Psychology
Columbia University
School of Engineering and Applied Science
Dickinson School of Law
Ne« York Chiropractic College
Pepperdlne University
School of Bu-incv. and Manager™
Pennsylvania State University
College of Buxine-1. Adminivtratic 
Graduate Program in Acoustics
Carnegie
Mellon
Sponsors: Tau Beta Pi & Cie Mellon Career Center
CMU GRADUATE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION
presents
HAPPY HOUR
at
THE ARTERY
5847 Ellsworth Avenue 
(near the intersection of Ellsworth and College) 
in Shadyside 
SPECIAL GSO DISCOUNT 
DELICIOUS APPETIZERS 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 
6 to 8 pm
Pease Bring your CMU graduate ID
Celebrate Tradition
Balfoiir
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
they’re preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation 
and custom school designs can all be captured in 
your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Wednesday, September 18 
10 am to 4 pm 
Baker Hall
Order yours on:
Thursday, September 19 
10 am to 4 pm 
Baker Hall
Friday, September 20 
10 am to 4 pm 
outside Carnegie Shoppe
Balfour. No oneremembersinso many ways.
1990
PITTSBURGH PIRATES
VS.
NEW YORK METS
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1ST 
THREE RIVERS STADIUM
RESERVED SEATS ONLY $3.00
LIMIT TWO TICKETS PER STUDENT I.D.
TICKETS ON SALE STARTING SEPTEMBER 16TH AT THE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
SPONSERED BY THE SPECIAL EVENTS COMMITTEE ON THE ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FUNDED BY YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 16 September 1991L9 _
Joe Bob discovers what life in outer space is like
courtesy Joe Bob Briggs
AfBcecy mcBtfBty .ctey %f5 kty ObcO .t%b ef 8fvb wtyte ktv cXctB tB SolarisG ekb SpyytcB cBy.b5 ef 2001: 
A Space Odyssey.
JOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE-IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
This doctor in La Jolla, Cali­
fornia has found the part of your 
brain that makes you a homo­
sexual. It’s called the anterior 
hypothalamus, and it’s basically 
the size of a mosquito’s toe.
Actually, I’m saying it wrong. 
If you’re a heterosexual, it’s the 
size of a mosquito’s toe. If you’re 
a homosexual or a woman, it’s 
the size of a gnat’s toenail.
In other words, the bigger the 
hypothalamus, the more your 
brain sends out signals like, “Get 
a load of the hematomas on that 
one!” And the smaller the hypo­
thalamus, the more likely you’re 
gonna be thinking “Do my shoes 
match my purse?” or “I just love 
Julie Andrews in The Sound of 
Music” And there’s nothing you 
can do about it.
This makes perfect sense to 
me, except I can already see prob­
lems, now that we know this. For 
one thing, guys are gonna be 
calling up brain surgeons de­
manding to have their 
hypothalami measured. And 
then we’ll do brain scans and 
find out that Warren Beatty has 
a hypothalamus the size of a hip- 
popotamus, but Harvey 
Fierstein’s hypothalamus looks 
like a smudge of vegetable soup 
on the linoleum. And the guys 
with the well-developed 
hypothalami will start having X- 
ray pictures taken and advertis­
ing in magazines:
“With a brain stem like this, 
I’ll never get sick of having sex 
with you. Call 970-HYPO.”
“Wanna pick my brain? It’s a 
handful!”
“Do you like long walks in the 
park? So do I. That’s because, as 
you can see, my hypothalamus is 
so undeveloped that I’d rather 
walk around talking than have 
sex. Look how small it is. We 
could get married and you could
manipulate me for the rest of 
your life.”
You see what I’m talking 
about?
There’s another problem here, 
though, because this same doc­
tor says that the hypothalamus 
is formed while you’re still a fe­
tus, so it’s something the parents 
could argue about later.
“You just had to have a pack of 
Winstons that night you were 
pregnant with little Timmy. I’m 
telling you, the boy’s not right.” 
“It’s just a stage. A lot of little 
boys dress up in women’s 
clothes.”
“The kid is fourteen and he’s 
dressing up like Marilyn Cham­
bers! I don’t think so!”
“Well, it must be something 
from your hillbilly gene pool 
then!”
Then you’ve got the matter of 
defense attorneys.
‘Your honor, there’s a perfectly 
good reason why my client would 
rape 370 women in a three-day 
period. Look at the size of this 
hypothalamus.”
And the judge would have to 
say, “Well, if he can’t control it, 
he needs to have a 
hypothalamotomy.”
And then you would have men­
tal hospitals all over the country 
opening up brain stems so you 
could bring the hypothalamus 
down to the level of “acceptable
community standards.”
Actually, the more I think 
about it, the more I hope the 
guy’s a quack. Because, let’s face 
it, if your hypothalamus can con­
trol you that much, then we’re 
not human beings, we’re ma­
chines that can be manipulated 
by our mere biological needs and 
every time we think of a blond 
bimbo wearing tight Spandex 
and spiked high heels, or stuff­
ing herself into one of those 
underwire support bras, or ... I 
gotta hurry up and review this 
movie so I can go find Wanda 
Bodine.
And, in honor of the total vic­
tory of the Russkies over the 
Commies, this week’s movie is 
Solaris, the greatest Russian sci- 
fi flick ever made, now available 
on video for the first time. The 
flick is dang near three hours 
long, with these weirdbeard 
vodka-drinking cosmonauts 
wandering all over a space sta­
tion trying to keep one another 
from going bonkers. Everybody 
back in Russia has lost interest 
in their mission, which was to 
study what’s going on in this 
huge outer-space ocean where, 
whenever you get close to it, you 
start having hallucinations and 
seeing giant nekkid babies float­
ing in spa e.
So a cosmonaut named Chris 
Kelvin goes up there to decide 
whether they should just blow 
up the ocean with a nuclear bomb 
and bring everybody back home, 
and he goes into this Twilight 
Zone sort of deal where the Ocean 
puts a whammy on him and all 
his most intense dreams materi­
alize. It gets worse: his dead ex- 
wife shows up. He kills her, she 
comes back. She kills herself, 
she comes back again. All your 
dreams and memories get formed 
into neutrinos that become real
and then you can’t get rid of em. 
And it’s a real intense thing, be­
cause Chris is always saying 
things like, “Honey, I need to go 
down the hall for a minute and 
talk to someone,” and the Neu­
trino Ex-Wife says, “I have to see 
you all the time! Don’t leave me! 
What’s wrong with me, Chris?”
In other words, life in outer 
space is like life on Earth, except 
there’s no football.
This movie was originally made 
as Russia’s answer to 2001: A 
Space Odyssey. They only had 
one problem. Stanley Kubrick 
had about 97 million bucks to 
make his movie. In Russia, they 
had about, oh, 97 rubles. And so, 
when they do a “weightless” se­
quence in Solaris, they just sort 
of set the actors on chairs, and 
guys get under blankets and hold 
up the chairs and walk around 
with em while books fly by that 
are hanging by wires. It’s kind of 
an early version of MTV.
Three dead bodies. Two 
breasts. Yellow space ooze. Neg- 
ligee-ripping. Outer-space zom­
bies. Coagulating ocean brain. 
Gratuitous midget. Ex-wife Fu. 
Hypodermic Fu. Vodka Fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nomi­
nations for Natalya Bondarchuk, 
as the outer space zombie ex- 
wife, for saying “I have a feeling 
someone’s deceivingus”; Donatas 
Banionis, as the cosmonaut who 
loves a zombie, for saying ‘You
mean more to me than any scien- 
tific truth”; and Andrei 
Tarkovsky, the writer/director, 
for having the crazed scientist 
say “We don’t want to conquer 
space at all. We want to expand 
Earth endlessly. We don’t want 
other worlds; we want a mirror. 
We seek contact and will never 
achieve it. We are in the foolish 
position of a man striving for a 
goal he fears and doesn’t want. 
Man needs Man!”
I kinda like the sound of that.
Four stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic from 
Grapevine, Texas.
Junior Class 
Meeting
all are welcome
Thursday, September 19 
Wherret Room
refreshments will be served
• please call the Office of the 
Dean of Student Affairs 
(x2075) if you plan to attend 
and for more information
Walk-in Tutoring Service is Available 
SUNDAY Through WEDNESDAY 
Beginning Tuesday, September 3
8 pm - 11 pm
Upperclass students are available to help you 
with the subjects listed. Help is given for 
entry-level course work. Tutoring is available 
to all undergraduates; there is no charge.
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Chemistry
Calculus
Calculus
Physics
Chemistry
Physics
Chemistry
Calculus
Chemistry
Wean Hall 5205 
Wean Hall 5403
Wean Hall 5403 
Wean Hall 5427 
Wean Hall 5205
Wean Hall 5427 
Wean Hall 5205
Wean Hall 5403 
Wean Hall 5205
More sessions will be added to the program. A 
detailed schedule will be available within the 
next few weeks. For more information, please 
contact Anne Witchner, Assistant Dean of 
Student Affiars, Skibo 103, x8704
Sponsored by Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 16 September 1991
Program changes aplenty this fall season
This fall, like any other fall, 
brings the usual number of new 
programs to the local schedule: 
talk shows, tabloids, sitcoms, and 
variety programs. But a few 
weeks ago, WPTT, channel 22, 
changed its programming in a 
way which made this new season 
one of the most memorable in 
history....
It seemed like any normal Sat­
urday night. I just wanted to 
watch Star Trek: The Next Gen­
eration. However, instead of see­
ing the familiar faces of Jean- 
Luc Picard and Deanna Troi, I 
was greeted by a Deluxe Edition 
Vanna White Gold-Plated Doily 
and an enthusiastic voice urging 
me to order now, now, now!
I just sat there for a moment, 
stunned. I slowly closed my eyes 
and reopened them. Nope, the 
doily was still there. Little by 
little, the truth sunk in: WPTT 
had sold out to the Home Shop­
ping Club.
Well, not sold out, really. 
WPTT’s new owner claims that 
this is just a temporary move 
until he has enough money to 
return to regular programming. 
There’s no telling, of course, how 
long temporary will be; suffice it 
-to say that we’d better get used 
to having one less local station.
The immediate panic from the 
viewing public after WPTT’s 
switch was over the station’s two 
best-known programs: Star Trek: 
The Next Generation and Arsenio 
Hall. Some Next Generation fans 
worried that they would miss
THE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
the season premiere (scheduled 
for the end of this month) or, 
worse yet, the entire season.
As it turns out, those worries 
were unfounded. Within two 
weeks, both shows had turned 
up on WPGH, Fox 53 (Star Trek: 
The Next Generation Saturdays 
at 7 pm, and Arsenio weeknights 
at 11:30 pm). It’s not terribly 
surprising that these two widely 
popular programs were picked 
up by another local station.
What won’t be picked up are 
the shows I enjoyed most on 
WPTT: the classic sitcoms, such 
as Dick Van Dyke, I Love Lucy, 
All in the Family, and Taxi. In 
this sense, WPTT will be sorely 
missed.
While WPTT certainly pro­
vided us with the most exciting 
schedule change, it didn’t pro­
vide the only one. New shows are 
popping up all over the schedule.
Fox 53, growing ever stronger, 
is getting ready to take on the 
Big Three: network affiliates 
KDKA, WTAE, and WPXI. First 
off, the Fox station is entering 
the late-night talk show fray with 
Arsenio and newcomer Ron
Reagan (weeknights at 12:30 
am). The former First Son has 
been a pleasant surprise so far 
with an Oprah-like panel show. 
Ron’s no Oprah, of course, and he 
doesn’t try to be. He comes off as 
young, brash, and quite liberal. 
He probably won’t make much of 
a dent in David Letterman’s rat­
ings, but he deserves a chance.
WPGH is also strengthening 
its early-evening comedy block 
with three new additions: Full 
House at 6 pm, Perfect Strangers 
at 6:30, and Married... with Chil­
dren twice nightly, at 7:30 and
11 pm. ALF, Mr. Belvedere, and 
M*A*S*H are gone from the 
schedule, while Charles in 
Charge moves to 5:30 pm.
Now, I’ll admit up front that 
I’m no Bob Uecker fan, but I’d 
much rather watch that ol’ buf­
foon swagger around like an idiot 
than endure Bob Saget five days 
a week. And as for Married ... 
with Children, well, once a week 
it’s okay, but ELEVEN times a 
week? Gives me shivers just 
thinking about it.
There are also some changes 
on the cartoon front: Teenage 
Mutant Ninja Turtles moves to 
the morning (weekdays at 7 am), 
while Video Power (weekdays at 
6:30 am) and Beetlejuice (week­
days at 4:.,0 pm) join the Fox 53 
Kids’ Club schedule. I’ll take an 
in-depth look at current cartoon 
offerings in a later column.
Now let’s turn to Pittsburgh’s 
three other commercial stations. 
Each year, these stations begin
to look more and more alike: their 
non-network schedules, for the 
most part, consist of news, talk 
shows, tabloid shows, and soap 
operas.
Last year, there were no less 
than seven talk shows on in Pitts­
burgh during the day. Station 
managers, of course, decided that 
they needed more. Former Cur­
rent Affair host Maury Povich 
tries to be another Phil or Oprah 
in his self-titled show (weekdays 
at 10 am on WTAE). This is sup­
posed to be a kinder, gentler 
Maury, getting away from smear 
tactics and concentrating on the 
“human” side of a story. I’m sorry, 
but this guy makes Geraldo look 
compassionate.
And speaking of Geraldo, the 
King of Sleaze is hosting a new 
investigative show called Now It 
Can Be Told (weeknights at 2:35 
am on WPXI). He promises tough 
investigative reporting, but no 
on-air fights. It seems to me that 
we need another tabloid program 
as much as Geraldo needs an­
other broken nose.
Taking on Maury in the morn­
ing is another newcomer, Jenny 
Jones (weekdays at 10 am on 
WPXI). If the promos for the show 
are any indication, she’ll try to 
translate her popular “men are 
scum” stand-up routine into a 
talk-show format. I’ll give her 
the benefit of the doubt — after 
all, she pushed out Joan Rivers, 
so she can’t be all bad.
Meanwhile, John Tesh (or pos­
sibly a clone — this guy’s every­
Little by little, the truth sunk in: 
WPTT had sold out to the Home 
Shopping Club.
where) is hosting a celebrity in­
terview show called One on One 
(weekdays at 11 am on WPXI). 
This guy is no Bob Costas, or 
even Barbara Walters. Stick with 
Entertainment Tonight, John.
And Ann Devlin is hosting a 
new locally produced show called 
Good Day, Pittsburgh (weekdays 
at 12 pm on WTAE). Think of it 
as Pittsburgh’s Talking, only two 
hours later.
Moving into the night, we find 
Love Connection on a new sta­
tion (weekdays at 1 am on 
KDKA), joined by a new compan­
ion, Love Stories (weekdays at 
1:30 am on KDKA). In this talk 
show/confessional, happy (and, 
one would guess, not-so-happy) 
couples share their experiences 
with America.
At the other end of the spec­
trum is Grudge Match (Satur­
day at 3 am on WPXt). It’sA7?zer/- 
can Gladiators for the commoner. 
Got a bone to pick with your 
neighbor? Why not beat him or 
her up on national television? 
It’s sure more entertaining than 
talking it out.
Roly-poly Dom Deluise hosts a 
new version of Candid Camera 
(weeknights at 7:30 pm on 
KDKA). Hey, if you like Dom and
have fond memories of the old 
Candid Camera (as I do), then 
this might be the show for you. 
Plus with the home-video craze 
still in full gear, this show has a 
real chance to catch on.
Last, and certainly not least, is 
WKRP in Cincinatti (Sunday at 
11:30 pm on WPXI). Yes, that’s 
right, folks, the Cincinatti radio 
station is back on the air with 
new episodes and three return­
ing cast members (Mr. Carlson, 
Herb, andLes). Conceivably, this 
could pick up where the original 
left off, offering some of the sharp­
est ensemble comedy on TV. Of 
course, it could also easily be a 
major disappointment. Worth 
keeping your eye on.
So there it is — the new fall 
season. If there’s absolutely noth­
ing about the new shows that 
you find appealing (and there’s 
probably a good chance of that), 
then you can always turn the 
dial back to WPTT. I mean, I did 
get quite a deal on that gold- 
plated doily.
NEXT WEEK: Why do I like 
Married... with Children'?
Tartan senior staffwriter A. 
Franklin Wheeler is a senior pro­
fessional writing major.
Jack the Ripper reappears in the 20th century
Who was Jack the Ripper? Was 
he the royal family’s personal 
physician? Was he a member of 
the royal family itself? Was there 
a mystical reason for the 
Whitechapel murders? Writer 
Alan Moore tries to answer all of 
these questions in the sixteen- 
part prestige format mini-series 
From Hell.
All “pure” comic book fans 
should be warned before they 
invest in this costly book—From 
Hell is not a comic book. Rather,
. it is an intricate novel presented 
in comic book form. And author 
Alan Moore has done quite a bit 
of research for this project—this 
is one of the few comic novels 
which has a bibliography.
Based primarily on Stephen 
Knight’s 1977 novel Jack the 
Ripper: The Final Solution and 
several other historical accounts 
of the life of one Dr. William 
Gull, Moore has synthesized re­
ality with fiction in a manner 
that is refreshingly unique to 
this genre. He is careful through-
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
out the lengthy appendix to ex­
plain all the occurrences in de­
tail, providing a kind of Cliff 
Notes for the incredibly dense 
story. When a scene is presented 
that is purely fiction, Moore indi­
cates so, but backs it up with 
valid arguments that lend even 
the fictional scenes credence. The 
fact that From Hell is essentially 
a true story lends it a frightening 
dimension that one rarely finds 
in comics.
It is no mystery to Moore who 
Jack the Ripper was, or at least 
it seems that way from the first 
issue. He believes that the Rip­
per was Dr. William Gull, a pres­
tigious, brilliant physician who 
rose quickly to the upper ech­
elons of Victorian society and 
found himself appointed as the 
personal physician of the royal 
family. His rise in medicine was 
swift, which made some of the 
more peculiar elements of Victo­
rian society take an interest in 
him.
Moore also presents an inter­
esting subplot of a secret society 
of debutantes called the Free­
masons, where only the richest, 
smartest, and most powerful gain 
admittance to the elite group. 
Moore implies that the higher- 
level Masons performed dark, 
horrendous rituals and wor­
shiped a three-headed deity 
named Jah-Bul-On.
This subplot really defines the 
book, showing in the most obvi­
ous, straightforward way the 
malevolent decadence of Victo­
rian England. When the Queen 
asks Dr. Gull to perform mind- 
altering surgery on a pure- 
hearted commoner to prevent
scandal, he readily complies and 
takes on the project with zeal. As 
a child, Gull is shown to rejoice 
in the vivisection of captured ani­
mals. His strong connection with 
the Freemasons doesn’t help his 
cause either. While reading all of 
this and making such conclu­
sions, one must keep in mind 
that many of the blanks in the 
historical record are filled in with 
Alan Moore’s vivid imagination.
Alan Moore adds a few histori­
cal figures as well. Queen Victoria 
is portrayed as a wicked prag­
matist, struggling to keep her 
family together. Philosopher 
James Hinton, who believed in a 
fourth dimension where time was 
nonlinear, makes a brief appear­
ance. Even John Merrick, the 
horribly disfigured “Elephant 
Man,” makes a cameo.
The art is wonderful. Austra­
lian artist Eddie Campbell’s rela­
tively uncluttered line work, and 
nine panel pages add a fluidity to 
the complex, extremely dense 
story. There are subtle motions,
©1991 Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell 
uwbB 2pbbB 0t8ef5tc vc3by c 8cvbf c11bc5cB8b tB From Hell.
expressions, and background 
work which add to the realism of 
the story. In the opening scene of 
this comic novel, two old men 
walk along the ocean talking 
about the tragic Whitechapel 
murders and their shadowy role 
in an implied cover-up. As the 
sea rolls by them and gulls float 
from panel to. panel, one can al­
most smell the sea and feel the 
cold air of an autumn in En­
gland. Campbell’s impressionis­
tic work is invaluable to the at­
mosphere of the book.
So, was Dr. William Gull Jack 
the Ripper? This may be the most 
thorough attempt at answering 
that question ever presented. 
Pick up a copy of From Hell and 
decide for yourself!
From Hell is published by Mad 
Love and Tundra Press.
All comics are courtesy of Phan­
tom of the Attic.
Tartan senior staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a senior biol­
ogy major who believes that Dr. 
William Gull was the Ripper.
Subs
Italian
Tuna
Roast Beef 
Ham
TriCheese
Turkey
American
Salami
6 inch
2.50 
2.00 
2.85 
2.00
2.25 
2.75
2.50
2.25
12 inch
4.50
4.00 
5.55
4.00
4.50
4.75
4.75
4.50
All subs come with:
Lettuce Onion Dressing 
Tomatoes Mayo
And your choice of cheese:
Provolone
Swiss
American
Subs with Sauce
Meatball2.505.00
These subs come with:
Our Homemade Sauce
Kielbasa2.505.00Onions
Hot Sausage2.505.00Lots of napkins
Off the Grill
Cheesesteak3.006.00-------
Sirloin Tip grilled with your choice of cheese
With : neat, cheese, lettuce, tcmato, onion, mayo
Philly Steak3.006.00-------With : meat, Our Sauce, cheese, onions
Vegetarian Cheese Fake3.006.00-------All veggies: mushrooms, green peppers, onions,
cucumbers, cheese, lettuce, tomatoes
687-9106

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 16 September 1991111
Thursday, September 19
Miller’s Crossing
The filmmaking team of Joel and Ethan Cohen 
have finally outdone themselves with the release of 
their gripping cinematic feast Miller’s Crossing.
Bombings, bloodshed, sex, and satire are all care­
fully orchestrated to create a motion picture of dis­
tinct proportion. Who would have ever thought that 
a gangster movie set during America’s Prohibition 
era could be so enthralling? Picturesque and senti­
mental, Miller’s Crossing can’t go wrong, and nei­
ther can you. For one dollar it would be brainless not 
to check this movie out.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, September 20
The Godfather, Part III
This movie ranks right up there with The Godfa­
ther, Parts I and II, and was nominated for the 
Academy Award for Best Picture this year. Part III 
features original cast members A1 Pacino, Diane 
Keaton, and Talia Shire. Part III also introduces 
some new characters: Andy Garcia as Sonny’s ille­
gitimate son and Sofia Coppola as Michael Corleone’s 
only daughter, Mary. If that name sounds familiar, 
Sofia is the daughter of director, Francis Ford 
Coppola. Although she received many bad reviews 
for her portrayal, she doesn’t detract from the movie.
The action and Sicilian music will keep you on the 
edge of your seat. Keep your eyes peeled for Joey’s 
murder and Michael and Kate’s tentative reunion. A 
dollar is not much to spend to see what might be the 
end of an era.
At 6:30, 9:15,12
Saturday, September 21
The Cook, The Thief,
His Wife and Her Lover
People never notice what is going on around them 
in a restaurant, but you may never want to ponder 
those thoughts again after seeing The Cook, The 
Thief, His Wife and Her Lover. Prepare yourself for 
Peter Greenway’s film which offers horrors and 
more intrigue in a restaurant than you thought 
possible.
The thief, Albert Spica, and his “associates” have 
a great appetite for nouveau cuisine of the rarest 
kind, so most of the scenes involve the vulgar table 
manners of Albert and his friends. Albert drags his 
wife, Georgina, to the restaurant to dine with him, 
and she serves as a target of his abuse. To escape her 
husband’s grasp, Georgina finds herself a lover, 
Michael, who is a sheepish bookworm at a nearby 
table. When Albert discovers the affair, his actions 
bring the downfall of two of the main characters in a 
most bizarre fashion.
Greenway’s technique in storytelling has more 
shock than substance. The opener begins with Albert 
stripping and urinating on a negligent client. Albert 
and company manage to give food a nasty reputation 
by the way they slovenly consume their meals. This 
film is not for the faint-hearted. Because you may not 
want to eat for quite a long time after seeing this 
movie, you may want to save that dollar for Silence 
of the Lambs next week to lose your lunch over.
At 7, 9:30,12
Sunday, September 22
The Outsiders
Based on S.E. Hinton’s novel ofthe same title, The 
Outsiders is a moving tale offriendship, loyalty, and 
heroics.
The plot is fairly simple — a group of kids who live 
on the wrong side of the tracks are just trying to live 
out their lives, survive rumbles with a rival “rich- 
boy” gang, and impress the women. Filled with an 
all-star cast — C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, 
Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Patrich Swayze, 
and Tom Cruise — and directed by Francis Ford 
Coppola, The Outsiders is a great film with some 
very powerful performances.
So head on over toDH2210this Sunday and watch 
The Outsiders, something you haven’t seen since 
eighth grade English.
At 6, 8,10,12
By NICOLE ALLEN, TIM BLASS, STEPHEN 
GLICKER, & AMY POTTHAST
Jethro Tull’s latest mimics their old style
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Jethro Tull might as well have 
only recorded one album, and 
named every track “Another 
Song.” While nobody mistakes 
Tull’s elegant hard rock for any­
thing else on the market, distin­
guishing some of Tull’s songs on 
a single album — or, for that 
matter, albums from one another 
— is a chore beyond most music- 
lovers.
Not that this is necessarily a 
bad thing. Tull’s songs are well- 
crafted testimonies to Ian 
Anderson’s songwriting ability. 
The Tull formula is tried and 
true: strong melodies; heavy gui­
tar mixed with folksong over­
tones; sagacious, elfin vocals; and 
musing, darkly wry lyrics. Mix 
these together. Go to a recording 
studio. Sing songs. Repeat until 
hell freezes over.
When considering whether or 
not you should buy their newest 
album, Catfish Rising, you’re 
likely to end up sounding like 
your mother criticizing your 
childhood hoard of toys. You’ve 
already got a Jethro Tull album. 
Do you really need another ? The 
answer really boils down to 
whether or not you want more of 
the same. It’s consistently good 
listening, but the key concept 
here is “consistent.” You’re li-
— Record Review —
---- ihs6TPK STPTNMn By Jethro 
Tull, Chrysalis Records.
able to listen to all 13 tracks and 
wonder what’s with those odd 
pauses in that unusually long 
song.
Some songs are rhythmic and 
bass-oriented, while some are 
wild excursions into the land of 
frenzied guitar. One song even 
has some backwards-processed 
instrument amidst the huzzah. 
It doesn’t matter. Tull could 
switch to kazoos and bagpipes 
and you still wouldn’t be able to 
tell one song from the next.
So, what does Catfish Rising 
offer, given that you probably 
already have it? Ian Anderson’s 
voice retains its ominous, mock­
ing tonality, but most of the lyr­
ics have an edge of flippancy. 
Tull tries to bring florid poetry to 
the comprehension level of the 
common man. It’s as if you’re 
chatting over tea with the Oracle 
of Delphi, with good-natured “If 
you know what I mean’s” casu­
ally tossed between each porten­
tous revelation.
The album (like... sigh ... all of 
them) presents an intriguing 
mixture of contemporary rock ‘n’ 
roll passion and a quaint, almost 
ethnic modality. Percussion is
AB Coffeehouse opens 
with comedian John Ridley
By JENNIFER KERSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
John Ridley is not much older 
than the average college student, 
but he has taken his comedy from 
coast to coast. He has played 
colleges all over the country and 
he is coming to Skibo Ballroom 
for the Activities Board Coffee­
house this Saturday night.
Originally from Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, Ridley went to Indi­
ana University where he got his 
start in comedy. “When I was in 
college, I decided that I v/anted 
to sleep a lot and make a lot of 
money, so I picked comedy,” says 
Ridley.
Two years later when he 
switched to New York Univer­
sity, he took his act with him. In 
New York, he played clubs such 
as The Comic Strip, Catch-a-Ris- 
ing Star, and Stand-Up New 
York. He was also involved in 
theater, and was in anoff-Broad- 
way play, Hardball. Ridley’s been 
in Los Angeles now for over a 
year. He plays L.A. clubs such as 
the Improv and Laugh Factory. 
In addition to playing some well- 
known clubs, he’s had numerous 
television appearances and has 
yet another coming up soon — 
Comic Strip Live, which is sched­
uled for November. And, of 
course, like any good comedian, 
he travels all over the country.
Your United Way investment 
pays big dividends for people in 
our community all year long.
Thank you for your generosity.United Way
The best investment 
in your hometown
sasste:
'T hiTiT sa mT oT un
218 Oakland Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213
: ; .V'
SLACKER
OPENS’.
September 20th'-
Filmmakers at the Fulton 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown 
call 471-9700 for showtimes
t ii ' ••• .
courtesy Chrysalis Records 
light and nimble, sometimes 
omitted altogether with no loss 
of musical structure.
And, of course, there’s “The 
Flute.” Anderson would be all 
but musically emasculated with­
out his breathy soprano compan­
ion, and while its lilting tones 
are somewhat down-played, 
they’re still the heart of many a 
measure.
There are jangling acoustic 
pieces and howling modern up­
beat numbers. But most of the 
songs are the leisurely-paced, 
wandering pieces which typify 
Tull. You won’t walk away hum­
ming the melodies, because you 
won’t remember them—but each 
song is enjoyable at some basic 
level.
Even still, a select few tracks 
make you perk your ears briefly. 
“Thinking Round Corners” is an 
off-balance country ditty with
whining, almost deranged vocals. 
“Doctor to My Disease,” despite 
its uninviting title, has a pleas­
ing, energetic harmony. “White 
Innocence” is both delicate and 
powerful, being one of the few 
tributes to guiltless romance that 
doesn’t sound like a tampon com­
mercial.
“When Jesus Came to Play,” 
though not overly compelling 
musically, does paint an inter­
esting allegory, wherein Christ 
is portrayed as a hackneyed, sec­
ond-rate band leader. (“He sang 
about three of four numbers but 
we’d heard it all before/We boys 
were getting restless: no girls 
were moving on the floor.”) It 
makes you wonder if there áre 
similar metaphorical motiva­
tions behind the other songs, but 
not enough to make you really 
want to check.
Catfish Rising is more Tull. 
It’s good Tull, entertaining Tull, 
but largely non-memorable Tull. 
It won’t make you set sail for 
glorious destinies with visions of 
a Utopian universe surging 
through your soul, but it will 
give you something unobtru­
sively enjoyable to play in the 
background while you do your 
homework. Consult your Tull tol­
erance and your wallet; if nei­
ther are exhausted, then you’ve 
got something to grab next time 
you’re at the record store. :
— Performance Preview —
lIKN STAouan This Saturday at 8 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Pre­
sented by AB Coffeehouse.
Ridley’s style of comedy has a 
story-telling qu ality to i t to which 
audiences can relate, and he 
seems to be pretty funny. At least 
that’s what George Carlin said 
when Ridley opened for him.
As for college audiences, they’re 
not new to Ridley. When you look 
at the list of colleges Ridley has 
performed at, you get the feeling 
Carnegie Mellon is one of the few 
he’s missed. “I’m looking forward 
to Carnegie Mellon; everybody 
talks about it,” said Ridley. He’s 
hoping- the show won’t be as 
eventful as his trip to one par­
ticular college though, where the 
stage actually collapsed in the 
middle ofthe show. “It just broke 
and fell apart. I slid off the side,” 
says Ridley. Hopefully AB tech 
won’t make his show at CMU 
quite that eventful.
Ridley will be playing in the 
Skibo Ballroom at 8 pm, Satur­
day night. “I hope people will 
turn out for the show and have a 
good time,” says Ridley. And if 
we’re cool enough, maybe he’ll 
even hang out after the show and 
party with us.
Miami City Ballet opens 
the PDC’s new season
DANCE, from page L7
Puerto Rican costume de­
signer, and a Cuban scenic 
designer, we are influenced by 
Latin America’s culture, influ­
ence, manner, style, and his­
tory,” explained Villela.
As a director of the Miami 
City Ballet, there are many 
challenges and rewards. “Tak- 
ingyoung people to guide them, 
to develop from student levels 
to dancer levels, from dancer 
level to performer level, and 
finally to the level of artist, 
makes it all the more worth­
while in this profession,” said
a proud Villela.
Add Elyse Bourne, a former 
soloist dancer of the New York 
City Ballet, and there’s cei- 
tainly something for everyone. 
If traditional is not your thinl;, 
you’ll like the more modern 
style of Gamonet’s works. And 
if modern isn’t your thing, the 
two Balanchine ballets provide 
traditional and classical style. 
There are all colors of costumes 
and there’s something for ev­
eryone. So, come to the 
Benedum and buy a ticket for a 
night you are sure to remem­
ber.
What the stars mean 
????? Masterpiece 
???? Excellent 
??? Good 
?? Fair 
? Poor
Write for Diversions 
and you’ll never go 
hungry again. 
Meeting tonight, 7 pm, 
Skibo room 50.
Don’t Start School Without One!
TOSHIBA
T1200XE
-20/40 MB hard disk
- 1 MB RAM, 7.9 lbs
- 3.5” 1.44 MB floppy
- 286 processor
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
on all TOSHIBA models and other hardware & software!
DSR, Inc. 800-875-0037
•VISA & Mastercard Accepted 
Authorized TOSHIBA Warrantee & Repair Service
Campus Classics
Study the classic blend of 
comfort and style in Birkenstock 
footwear, and 
learn how good 
your feet can 
feel! Suede, 
leather, and 
nubuck styles in 
iautumn colors of 
[forest, berry, mocha and violet.
Biitenitockl
¦Qie Sljpe Inrt
5874 Forbes Avenue Squirrel Hill 521-9122

---------------------------------------------------

Vjtì
1991 Paramount Pictures Corp.
m5tOXbe 6fBOc 1f5e5cry 1kfef4fp5Bcdtye 
M5c8b KcvtdefB tB 65cB8ty 6f5O if11fdc©y 
if5dbfBb %cvtdr b1t8 The Godfather Part 
III, .kt8k .tdd 1dcr tB AK 99,g fB 65tOcr 
ce >«!gG |«,*G cBO vtOBtXken
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films is 
$3, unless otherwise specified.
Every Other Weekend will play each 
night this week at the Pittsburgh Play­
house through Thursday. All shows are 
at 7 and 9 pm; admission is $4.
Warlock will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse this evening at 7:30 and 
9:30 pm.
Odd Man Out will play at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse on Tuesday evening 
at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World
will play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
on Wednesday evening at 7:30 pm.
Miller’s Crossing will play in DH 2210 
on Thursday evening at 6,8, and 10 pm.
Madonna: Truth or Dare will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Thursday 
evening at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
The Godfather Part III will play in 
DH 2210 on Friday evening at 6:30, 
9:15, and midnight.
Cross My Heart will play each night at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse starting Fri­
day. All shows are at 7 and 9 pm; 
admission is $4.
L.A. Story will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse on Friday evening at 7:30 
and 9:45 pm.
The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and 
Her Lover will play in DH 2210 on 
Saturday evening at 7, 9:30, and mid­
night.
City Slickers will play at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse on Saturday evening 
at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
The Outsiders will play in DH 2210 on 
Sunday evening at 6, 8, 10, and mid­
night.
Henry V will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse on Sunday evening at 7:30 
pm.
cmuOUT will hold a general business 
meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 245C.
Foreign Language Tables, in con­
junction with the Modem Languages 
Department, will be held each week in 
the Morewood Gardens Cafeteria, ex­
cept where noted. Tuesdays: II Circolo 
Italiano (Italian) from 11:30 am to 1 
pm; La Table Française (French) from 
11:30 am to 1 pm; La Mesa Espafiola 
(Spanish) from 1-2 pm. Wednesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) from noon to 
1:30 pm; Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de 
(Japanese) at noon in BH 228A. Please 
order lunchfor the Japanese table Tues­
days in BH 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) from 
11:30 am to 1 pm.
cmuOUT will take a work/study break 
to New York, NY on Friday. Meet in BH 
245C at7:30pm. For more information, 
call x3881.
Voices United Gospel Choir holds 
weekly rehearsals every Friday from 
5-7 pm in MM 210. All are welcome. 
For more information, call Tara 
Haughton at x4580.
Comedian John Ridley will perform 
in the Skibo Ballroom at 8 pm on Satur­
day. Admission is free. Sponsored by 
AB Coffeehouse.
1991 Career Seminars, sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburgh, will be 
presented Monday through Thursday, 
September 23-26, at the William Pitt 
Union Assembly Room from 11 am to 
3:30 pm each day. Monday: Graduate 
and Professional Schools Fair; Tues­
day: Careers in Government, Law, and 
Public Service; Wednesday: Careers in 
Health, Education, and Social Service; 
Thursday: Careers in Business, Man­
agement, and Communications. Awork- 
shop entitled “Getting Your Career in 
Gear: The Tools You Need to Find a Job 
You Like” will be presented on Thurs­
day from noon to 1:30 pm in Dining 
Room A. The seminars are free and 
open to everyone. For more informa­
tion, call 648-7930.
Pittsburgh Singles’ Sixth Annual 
Benefit Dance for the American Can­
cer Society will be held Friday, Septem­
ber 27 at the Greentree Holiday Inn
from 8:30 pm to 1:30 am. Sponsored by 
the Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh, 
the danceis open to all interested people 
and door prizes will be awarded. Tick­
ets are $10 in advance or $12 at the 
door. For tickets or more information, 
call 486-4732 or 341-4070.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and at 10:30 am 
Sunday in the Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration auditorium. 
For more information, call the Oratoiy 
at 681-3181.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on SunT 
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11 am in their chapel lo­
cated at the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Yom Kippur Services with Chabad 
House will be held in Skibo 100. Kol 
Nidre services begin on Tuesday at 7 
pm; morning services on Wednesday 
begin at 10 am and resume at 5:30 pm; 
break-the-fast is at 8:45 pm. For more 
information, contact Fraydi Silverman 
at 683-7770 or 521-0770.
Music
Re-Flux in Pittsburgh: An Art Tele­
communication Event, a learning 
environment for decentralized inter­
change, will be showing in the Hewlett 
Gallery starting Tuesday through Sep­
tember 29. Studio for Creative Inquiry 
Fellow Artur Matuck will head an in­
terchange with several cities around 
the world. Hours are 11:30 am to 5 pm 
and 7:30-8:30 pm Tuesday through 
Friday; 1-4 pm and 7:30-8:30 pm Sat­
urday. A reception will be held on Fri­
day September 27 from 7-9 pm.
The 1991 Guild Ball, sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, will be 
held at the Westin William Penn Hotel 
in downtown Pittsburgh on Friday at 7 
pm. For more information, call 343- 
6959.
Festival in the Woods 1991 will take 
place on Saturday and Sunday. A 5K 
run will be held on Saturday at 10 am; 
registration begins at 9 am. Parades, 
food, hayrides, amusement rides, and 
game booths will follow the race and 
continue all day Sunday. For pre-regis­
tration information, contact Bradford 
Woods Community Church at935-3135.
The Miami City Ballet will make its 
Pittsburgh debut at the Benedum Cen­
ter on Saturday at 2 and 8 pm. For more 
information, call 355-0330.
Casual Classics Lecture Luncheon 
on Romeo and Juliet, sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, will be 
held at the PBT Studios in the Strip 
District at 11:30 am on Thursday, Sep­
tember 26. For more information, call 
281-0360.
Jones, and Ann Hayes on Thursday 
from noon to 1 pm in Baker Hall 255B. 
Sponsored by the English Department 
Colloquium Series.
“Environment, Energy, and All 
That: How Policies are Made” will 
be presented by Herbert Simon, Rich­
ard King Mellon Professor of Computer 
Science and Psychology, on Thursday 
at 3:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Spon­
sored by the President’s Distinguished 
Lecture Series.
The River City Brass Band opens its 
1991—92 season with Sing a Song of 
Freedom to commemorate the bicen­
tennial of our Bill of Rights. The band 
will appear in various Pittsburgh lo­
cales throughout September. All shows 
are at 8 pm. Performances will be held 
Tuesday at Mt. Lebanon High School, 
Friday at Carson Middle School in 
McCandless, and Saturday at The Pal­
ace Theater in Greensburg. For more 
information or reservations, call the 
box office at 322-RCBB or (800) 292- 
RCBB.
A Lecture and Workshop on Celtic
Art will be presented by the CMU Celtic 
History Society on Wednesday at 5:30 
pm in Skibo 201. Bring grid paper, a 
pencil, and creativity, and learn some 
Celtic knots!
“Reflections on Pedagogy by Three 
Winners of Teaching Awards” will 
be presented by Erwin Steinberg, Pete
The men’s and women’s cross coun­
try teams will compete in the Indiana 
University of PA invitational on Satur­
day. The men will race at 11 am and the 
women will race at noon.
The football team will travel this 
weekend to compete against the Uni­
versity of Chicago at 1:30 pm on Satur­
day.
The golf team tees off its season on the 
home green against Duquesne Univer­
sity on Thursday (time unannounced 
as of publication).
The men’s soccer team travels to 
Washington & Lee University on Fri­
day at 4 pm and then competes at Johns 
Hopkins University on Saturday at 
11:30 am.
The women’s soccer team hosts Al­
legheny College on Wednesday evening 
at 7 pm and then travels to Swarthmore 
College on Saturday at 2 pm.
The men’s tennis team travels to 
Case Western Reserve University on 
Saturday morning to compete with 
CWRU, Walsh, and Baldwin-Wallace 
at 9 am.
The women’s tennis team plays at 
Grove City College on Thursday at 2 
pm and then travels to Case Western 
Reserve University on Saturday to com­
pete with CWRU and the University of 
Rochester.
The women’s volleyball team trav­
els to Washington & Jefferson College 
on Tuesday at 6:30 pm and will then 
play in the Washington & Lee Univer­
sity Tournament on Friday and Satur­
day at 5 pm.
Gumby,
Having committed the crime of the cen­
tury, I am asked “crisis? what crisis?” I 
have no immediate answer, even in the 
quietest moments. Perhaps you will. Dare 
I ask you to break fast in America with me? 
I know not.
Cosmos
Oh Queen My Queen
Look again at the policies you make
And think to feel
Don’t feel to think
The other Arrogant one
Hey, Jim! I think you should read your 
plan file!
“Get your slimy wet penis off of my leg!”
“Better get a running start, Bob!”
CHIA HEAD!!
Lazarus not so long,
We have a bone to pick with you. 
When you least expect it, EXPECT IT! 
The Noodlemeisters
So where did you get this extra-thin wood 
grain carpet?
That’s the floor, Kevin. The carpet is over 
here.
“Uh, what are you doing?”
“I’m listening to your liver.”
Melissa,
Do you think you put enough entries 
into Vox Populi last week?
C.B. (you’ll never guess)
Michelle, Patty, Jennifer, Deborah: 
“Seasons change and years go by 
And some things fade away,
But the special joy that sisters bring 
Grows brighter day by day.”
WE LOVE YOU, AWESOME CHI 
OMEGA PLEDGES!
Love,
your sisters in Chi O
“Buy Penn’s Best Beer. It’s Cheaper than 
Coke.” Right, Matt?
“What did you think of his butt?”
“Well, it was right in my face ....”
1. Just Like You — Robbie Nevil
2. 3 am Eternal — The K.L.F.
3. Can You Stop the Rain — Peabo Bryson
Hey Anne,
Was hilft hufen, 
wenn man nicht 
auf den rechten Weg ist?
Alice —
“... All her hair
In one long yellow string I wound 
Three times her little throat around, 
And strangled her. No pain felt she;
I am quite sure she felt no pain.” 
from “Porphyria’s Lover” by Robert Brown­
ing, lines 38-42.
To those cute guys from Theta Xi:
We love your screams ... Do you have 
anything else exciting to show us....
Jaret and Josh are hot, hot, hot.... 
love,
your B-tower admirers
“I’m going to fail out of school. Probably by 
tomorrow.”
So, Shawnie, how was da dinner date?
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: Calen­
dar Editor, The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus 
mail to: Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info 
Desk. You can also drop submissions via AppleShare 
in the Calendar drop folder on the Tartan’s server in 
the Skibo zone. Please limit submissions to fifty 
words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before 
the next issue. Placement is not guaranteed. Original 
Vox Populi and Calendar entries cannot be returned.
