SATURDAY NOV. 2 
FOOTBALL DANCE 
CARNEGIE UNION $1.80
VOL. XXIII, NO. 6, PART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1925
Well, Well, Wally Skins Panthers, 6-(
Carnegie Conquers Old Rivals in 
Mighty Battle to Win Championship 
of Pittsburgh at Pitt’s Stadium
Large Crowd Stays in Rain 
to Watch Revival of 
Annual Contest
VANSA AND WILLIAMS STAR FOR PITT WITH LONG RUNS
Carnegie Makes Onlj' Score of Game in Last Part of Second Half
As the shivering spectators crouch­ed beneath their muln-colored um­brellas and the students beneath their gaudily decorated slickers, a hectic jattle was being waged on the rain- soaked gridiron in. the center of the Stadium. First a golden-hued jersey with bold, black numerals on its back would skirt speedily around or through crimson line. Later on a red jerscycd specie of the genus homo would dash hastily through the golden line; but always the red and the. gold were stopped. Many times ‘•'is procedure was re-enacted. At t, in the waning moments of the t quarter of the game, a twinkling red was seen dashing unobserved vard the white goal posts. A all, brown object came towards, 1 was caught by him. On the ee-yard line he was downed and ee plays later a figure jumped :r a pile of sprawling humans for touchdown. It was Ted Rosen- eg, who caught the pass and ward Harpster who made the ). Both arc from Carnegie and both goes credit for scoring the ; touchdown of the day, the ;hdown that spelled victory for negie and plunged the breathless ters from. Pitt into the bottom- pit of defeat. The score was lgetl to 6-0, and 6-0 it remained, will remain, until the feud is re­ed next siason.
ic game fulfilled the predictions every true follower. of football lines. In somewhat plebian terms as "a humdinger." Carnegie was »«ted .to win and Pitt was cx- ?.d to fight. In fact, rumor has at the Pittites played a far bet- game than their well-to-bc-re- bered neighbors from Schenley . It is true that Pitt made more itional advances, more first- us and gained more yardage', but final driving punch that charac- es the truly good football team lacking. On the other hand, icgie, after bringing the ball 
11 the field, was not stopped—I put the ball over, and that’s (t counts. When the Tartans a placed with their backs against goal line they showed more ofunnameable something which gs. victory. It was not courage brawn nor a desire to win, for . had that, too. Perhaps _ Wally ; Bob know ;ust what it is and haps that is why Carnegie is the U feared under-dog in the coun- At any rate Carnegie von and h wc will see in our trophy room hilling emblem of victory, an cra- h which will 'show that the best
II won.(Continued oh Page 5)
ter-Fraternity Council 
Totes on Rushing Events
ie last meeting of Interfrater- Council held Saturday morn- October 27, produced many nents for and against the ad- ility of having dances and r social events during rush- season. A motion that the ution suggested at a previous ing, providing for the exclu- of all dances, theater parties, professional entertainers be 1 upon was lost, 
other motion,, providing that 1 events be limited to frater- liouses, and that dances with orchestras be prohibited, was, much dis'cussioh, also lost, a treasurer requested that all 
(Continued on Page 3)
NEW ORCHESTRAPROMISED FOR SATUR­DAY FOOTBALL DANCE
A football dance will be held in 
the Carnegie Union, Saturday night, 
which promises plenty of variety 
and entertainment.
In keeping with the policy of the 
committee of providing the best music possible for its dances, they have decided to secure a new and better orchestra. The monetary as­sessment has been kept at $1.50 in spite of the major .improvement in tha quality of this dance, of 9 to 12 will be followed.
These weekly dances provide an outlet for the pent-up enthusiasm acquired in the six days of study preceding each dance. Although 
there is no football game this Saturday- the dance will not lack any of the pep that is characteristic of all our football dances. Health authorities agree that excessive study without recreation is harm­ful, therefore it is best _ to give up your books for one night and attend this dance.
Second Internationa! Coal 
Conference to Have Noted 
Foreign Scientists Present
Liquefaction and Hydrogenation to Be the Principal Subject of Discussion At Meeting.
One of the outstanding subjects 
for discussion at the Second Inter­
national Conference on Bituminous 
Coal to be held at Carnegie Tech, November 19 to 24, will be the production of petroleum from coal. This subject, which conies under the- heading of. “Liquefaction ai\d Hydrogenation,”, will be discussed by several of the foremost scien­tists of Europe, who have accepted Dr. Baker’s invitation to take' part in the coal conference. ,Foremost among these is" Dr. Friedrich Bergius, of Heidelberg, Germany, whose process for pro­ducing petroleum from bituminous coal is controlled in Germany by the German Dye Trust (I. G. Far- benindustrie) and in this country by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. Dr. Bergius, who at­tended the First International Con­ference on Bituminous Coal at Pittsburgh two years ago, has been working on the problem since 1914. Up to the time he read his paper at the Carnegie Congress' in 1926, there had/been, no large scale pro­duction of synthetic production. Shortly after this event, an arrange-' (Continued on Page 2)
Student Directory Due
To Appear In Two Weeks
A copy of the student, directory has been sent to the printers and will be out in two weeks. Al­though this new- edition is larger than it was in recent years it will be convenient to carry around.
The book contains the address and the telephone number of the students and the faculty. There are sections devoted to women’s dormitories and men!s dormitories.: A complete- list of all class, offi­cers of Margaret Morrison, Arts, Industries and Engineering is given. It also has a fraternity^- sorority and honorary, section.A new feature of the student directory is_ the student council- section. This gives the name, ad­dress, telephone number and posi­tion of all members of the council.This, book is very useful to. per­sons affiliated with Carnegie. It is invaluable to the freshman dur­ing rushing season. He can look' up his prospective companions.-verj' easily because full details, are given in the directory.
inual “Mum” Show Opens November 4, 
With Brilliant Display of Fine Plants
ce again Pittsburgh will • be >red with a beautiful display hrysanthemums, at the Phipps iervatory, :to. brighten the dull season. The “mum," show is. iiinual event in Pittsburgh and open this year on Sunday, ember 4. Its duration will ably be about three weeks, if 
weather is seasonable, n unusual scenic effect has t planned for the center house, he middle of the house a white ,ola has been erected. It is ap- ched by a narrow grayel path lered with small stones and I with chrysanthemum banks of egated colors, the tall ones dis- ing their haughty heads above gleaming whiteness of the ala- tr structure, - while the ' smaller repose more modestly at the lermost edge of the bank. If plans for the setting :do . not .arry, there will be a waxen a raven-tressed maiden of old n. sitting in the white pergola
when the doors open to the public on November 4. The purpose of this unique arrangement is to lend the oriental atmosphere of' China and Japan, for the Orient claims the honor of the birthplace of the “mum.”
One of the features of the show this year will be the display of the Indica, I he original “muni” plant. These plants have been made -to grow over a wire, framework to form a vase of green leaves with tiny flowers blooming all over it. It will be interesting for the visitor to compare the size of the original chrysanthemum with that of the more recently developed specimens, . The . original plant grows about one foot high and its- blooms are less than one-half inch in _ diameter. By comparison, the “Rider Haggard” specimen, .measr uring almost 10 feet in height and bearing a bloom more than one. foot in diameter, seems a veritable giant.
Dr. Goldenson Talks
In Chapel Today
Dr. Samuel H. Goldenson of the Rodef Shalom Congregation, will be the speaker at the Chapel exer­cises being held today at 11:30 o’clock in the Little Theatre. Dr. Baker will preside. The musical program will consist of organ se­lections by Frederick Chap nan, a member of the Music Department, and a vocal number by Paul Brauti- gan, student director of the Men’s 
Glee Club.
For many years Dr. Goldenson has been a speaker in Chapel serv­ices at Carnegie. So far the at­tendance has been gratifying, but more students are urged to take an interest in attending these de­votional exercises this year.
Women’s Organizations 
Plan Scholarship Drive
Officers Are Appointed .To Arrange Benefit After Christmas Holidays
Last Friday the Women’s Schol­arship Organization of Carnegie Tech met to appoint an official secretary and treasurer, and to negotiate the plans for this year’s benefit. Eleanor Arter, junior in the Secretarial Department, was ap­
pointed to the office of permanent secretary and Kay Anderson, a junior in General Science Depart­ment, to the office of permanent treasurer. These appointments complete the roster of officers for this year, the other officers having been previously ‘ named.The final decisions upon the scholarship appointments for this semester were made. Ten scholar­ships are to be awarded, this semes­ter and the committee hopes to be able to give the same number next semester. In considering the bene­fit for this year, it was decided that it will be. impossible to give it before the Christmas holidays.The theatre benefit which is given each winter at one of the down­town play-houses furnishes the en­tire funds for the scholarships. Teas and. other benefits which were formerly given are eliminated in ¦this way. The play for this year, though it lias not yet been decided upon, will probably be similar to the one given last year. A mu­sical comedy or light opera will be selected, if possible.The appointments to. scholarship awards are made on the basis of the recommendations of the various women’s clubs and other organiza­tions on the campus.The association was started last year, taking the. place of the vari­ous organizations -which previously had charge, of awarding scholar­ships.
Council Orders Elections 
To Fill Vacant Offices
-V-Reports of various committees 
constituted the ¦ first business 
brought before Student" Council .at the regular weekly meeting last Tuesday’evening, October 23. John Barr, chairman of the special com­mittee, reported on the constitu­tion of the . Flying. Club, which was turned over to his committee, last week for consideration. He pointed out several weak points in the constitution as submitted and read some of the revised sections and additions which were recommended. A motion was carried that the con­stitution be returned to the club to be reconsidered by them, with the proposed changes,' Art Sidells, a junior in the. Architectural De­partment, and^ Bruce Gilchrist, >a senior in the Civil Engineering De­partment, were named members of the Special Committee by the chair­man.
The budget of the Margaret Mor­
rison Senate was presented for ap­proval and was tabled, until next week. A letter was read from the president of the _ Night Student Council asking, for information con­cerning the gift of the Day Student. Council to the Carneeie Endow­ment Fund, which' is to be applied towards_an Activities Building. The desired information was -sent' to the council by the secretary. Two let­ters were read from Dean Tarbell, one asking that four student mar­shals be appointed for Carnegie Day exercises. This matter was refused by “Pete” Stuaffer, presl dent of the council. The other let­ter _ was in regard to the forged notices which appeared oh the bulletin board last Monday morn­ing concerning a holiday after the W.. & J. game.
That Monday, ^October 29, be de­clared a holiday if the Carnegie football team should defeat the Pitt team, was declared by coun­cil.
Four ineligibilities were brought to the attention of the council by Dean Green. The four offices af­fected are the President of the Stringers, Secretary of the Arts Sophmore Class, Assistant Librar­ian of the Girls’ Glee Club, and the Secretary of the Guild. The Secretary of Council was requested 
to inform _ these • organizations of the vacancies’ made by the forfeit-, ance_ of these offices and that re- elections must be held within a week.
A similar letter was read -from Dean Tarbell concerning the inel- 
(Continued on Page 5)
Earl Carroll Gives Ex-1 
Opportunity To
College Athletes 
Continue In Spotlights
Latest, news reports from the 
Great White Way tell us that 
Earl Carroll, originator of the Earl 
Carroll Vanities and Earl Carroll 
Bathtub Speciaties, wants fifty ex­college athletes to take part in a big new musical offering which goes into rehearsal about No­vember 15, and is scheduled to^ open about January 1.Here indeed is a wonderful op-, portunity for those of our number whose days of heroics upon the gridiron, rifle range, or basketball? court are over. All you have to do is send a photograph-.to Mr. Carroll, jot down j'our measure­ments and coloring on the back, and whoopee!—you may have a job on Broadway. It isn’t enough that the athletes are given an option on the leading campus la­dies, it isn’t enough that they be pointed but at all times on the campus as Mr. So and So, the greatest quarterback that ever hit home runs into the new stands of Forbes Field, oh my no, but they must also be given the wonderful opportunity to hob-nob with the nicest bevy of beauties on Broad­way, and how!We hope the boys aren’t forced to trip the light fantastic too soon. Since this notice has beeii posted in the field house, all the football heroes upon whom we have counted for so much, have laid
aside their moleskins, and are now practicing “The Dance of the Seven Veils” in place of the well- known spinner and end around. It is rumored already that Mr. Carroll plans to use our center and fullback in “The Jig- of the Seven Whales,” one of the features of the new show. It is rumored that petitions are circulating now among the members of the squad to ef­fect the removal of Wally Steffen and Bob Waddell as .head coaches and appoint George White and Hindu Wassau in their places. As yet no action lias been taken.Reinforcing. of the stage of the 
Little Theater is now under way for every member of the. squad has insisted that aesthetic dancing be added to the curriculum. So, you see, those unusual noises you heard the other day weren’t caused by blasting or thunder. That was the football' squad doing “TheDying Nymph.”Anyway, it’s a wonderful oppor­tunity for someone. And Ear-1Carroll wants fifty ex-college athletes for a new revue. So those athletes who are as yet at a loss for future vocations may see their name flashed on Broadway, ifthey’ll only . send their name,photograph, and measurements .to the Earl Carroll Theater, 755 Sev­enth avenue, New York City, be­fore November 15. Step up, boys, ¦here’s the chance of a life time!
Pitt Number of Puppet 
To Be On Sale Today i
Due rop unavoidable circumstance • | 
the Puppet was unable to be on 
sale last Tuesday, but promises to 
be out todaj\ The next issue of 
Puppet, the New York Uniyersity- 
Thanksgiving' Number, will be out 
Tuesday, November 20.
A change in the sales policy of 
the. Puppet will be . evident with 
the forthcoming issue. A commis­
sion of 2 cents per copy is being 
given to the salesmen who .seli 
over 50 copies of one. issue. This 
offer! will be in effect after a sales­
man has completed distribution on 
two issuife of the Puppet.
Drama Department To Open 
With “Dark Hours” Oct, 31
Don Marquis, Author, Assisting In 
Staging To insure Desired Version At First Showing
“The Dark Hours,” 'a story of 
Christ by Don Marquis, will be the first presentation of the.year by the Drama Department, opening on Wednesday/ October oi, m the 
Little Theatre, and running until November 10. Two matinee pei~ formances will be given, November 2 and 9, at o-.cO. Don Marquis the author has been rehearsing with the cast since last week end putting on. the finishing touches. This is the tir.st time the play has been produced, and the author is anxious that it be produced according to 
his own interpretation. : He has withheld it from outside producers for that reason and hopes, to learn the - true "value ¦ of his - production trom this production. ‘
Mr. Wallace of the Drama De­partment carried on the rehearsals up until the arrival of the author.
Practically all the students of the Drama Department will be used in ihe presentation. The principal characters include: Cariaphas, high priest and priest of Sanhedrin, played by Tom Fisher; Annas his 
father-in-law and former .high priest, Garland Kerr; Judas, Tom Lewis; Feter, Arthur Sprenkle; John, Jack 
Wooley; Pelate, Frank Sullivan; Proclay wife of Pilate, Florence 
Wakefield; Mary Magdalene, Irene Tedrow; Malchus, servant to Caria­phas, Lee Mitchell, and Lazarus, Lewis Harr. Besides the principals the. cast includes priests, scribes, elders, disciples, servants, and of­ficers and about seventy-five mem­bers. The costuming unity headed 
by Bets Shraeder is making the complete set of costumes.
The story of the play is told in five scenes. I opens in the house of Cariaphas on the -evening before the Crucifixion of Christ. The sec­ond scene is laid in the Garden of Gethsemane two hours later; the third, again in the house of Caia- 
phas, between mid-night, and morn­ing of the same night; the fourth scene in the Palace of Pilate, early morning, and the last scene, at 
(Continued on Page .5)
Yale Holds Conference of 
College Aviation Clubs
Amelia Earhart Transatlantic Flyer Honor Guest At Convention
The First Intercollegiate Aviation Conference which was held at Yale University on October 19 and 20 and at which Carnegie Tech was represented by H, M. Wilkoff the president of the Aviation Club and the Flying Club, accomplished,. as climax to its success as a con- ehtipri, the organization of all the I’lying Clubs represented into a national unit to operate as an In­tercollegiate • fraternity of active aeronautical organizations in schools ah over the country. To make the 
conference a significant event there were among those present Miss 
Amelia Earhart, famed transatlantic flyer; ¦ Secretary Warner, assistant 
secretary of Aviation of the United States; Senator Hiram Bingham of 
Connecticut, President of the Di­rectory of Aeronautics, Department 
of Commerce, and Mr. Porter Ad­ams, Past President of the National Aeronautic Association who was also chairman of the conference.
The formation of the national as­sociation of collegiate aviation so­cieties included the selection of a committee of ten members, all of .different institutions, to govern the activities of the new organization, and also the adoption of certain purposes the fulfillment of which the association would continually strive for. The .members present were asked to submit their con­ceptions of suitable ideals for the Intercollegiate organization, and Howard Wilkoff’s plans were un­animously accepted without altera- iion. Wilkoff is also one of the governing committee of ten. Wil­koff’s purposes are as follows: first, that the Intercollegiate body keep their clubs which are members of the association fully informed of the activities of other Flying 
clubs; second that the orgonization attempt financial aid by working as a unit in ordering planes and equip­
ment from manufacturers at whole­sale prices; third, that the govern­ing committee manage and sponsor all Intercollegiate air competition, 
and fourth, that association exert 
(Continued on Page 6)
Printing Department
Has Unique Magazine
“Printing Education” the -only 
magazine in America devoted exclu­
sively to the teaching of printing is 
h< being published by the Depart­
ment of Printing at f'arnegie Tech. The periodical is published five times during the school year-in conjunction with -the Department of Education ot the United Typothetae of America. The cover page is designed by stu­dents of the -department at this school.
The Directory Number of “Print­ing Education” was the first- issue published this year. It contained a complete list of all printing schools in America together, with, a list ot all the men teaching printing. The second and succeeding numbers con­tained the addresses given at the Printing Convention held at Carnegie Tech, last June. The publication of this magazine is the. most important contribution -of the Printing Depart­ment of C. I. T. to the typographical world.
The extensive series of lectures planned for the Department of Printing for this year i* not yet complete but many prominent men have already consented to speak be­fore the department. The list to date is as follows:Mr. George C. Stock of Cleveland, 
(Continued on Page 2)
Miss Green To Speak At 
Meeting Of Women Deans
Miss Green will -speak at the 
eighth annual meeting of the Penn­sylvania Association of Deans of Women, which is to be held at the Penn-Harris hotel in Harrisburg, November 2 and 3. Dean . Green’s topic, ‘The Part of the Dean in 
Academic Adjustment,” will be heard at the Saturday morning session of the meeting.
An extensive program has been planned'' and includes open discus­sions of the. various problems which confront the dean of a school. Open­ing with a luncheon on Friday; the convention will be officially inaugur­ated by an address of welcome by Mrs. Frances Blanshard of Swarth- more college. The dean of the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh, Tbyrsa W. Amos will conduct a symposium, “The Interview,” after which a -gen­eral discussion will be held. A coin-, plete report of _ th‘e meeting of the National Association . of' Deans of Women, held in Boston, in February, 1928, will be given by Miss Helen Marks of the Pennsylvania College for Women.
The afternoon sessions, will’.be de­voted to executive and-' committee •meetings. In the evening: of Novem­ber 2, a banquet will be ,given for the entire session body. Mrs. Blan- 
(Continued on Page 2)
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR YELL CONTEST DUE NEXT MONTH
Sorority Rushing Ends 
As Silence Period Starts
Quffet Period Terminates Tomorrow By Announcements oi Calls And Rules of Pledges
Yesterday at noon, after a series of social events given by each of the four sororities, a period of silence began, terminating officially the 1928 sorority rushing season. The silence period is to be con­tinued until 4 o’clock tomorrow.
The social events given by the various sororities this year were unusually colorful and highly original.
After the Intcrsorority tea on October- 12, came a breakfast dance by Alpha Kappa Psi in the Venetian room at Webster Hall and a Treasure Hunt with unusual termination of a weiner roast and slumber party at the home of Blanche Bray, who will act as hostess for the Beta Psi Sorority.'
Sunday, October 14, was tea day, Alpha Kappa Psi entertaining at the home of Pendleton Scully, the Beetles at B. McFort’s, and the Tri-Gammas at Alice Harding’s with a Chinese tea. Alpha Kappa Psi gave its tea Sunday, October 28, with Florence Wakefield re­ceiving.
Last Friday the Gammas enter­tained at a novel event called a Tacky Party. On Saturday the Alpha Kappa Psi gave an equally amusing costume party under the picturesque name of an Apache Dance.The final day of festivities was marked by the Alpha Kappa Psi tea, and a delightful buffet supper given by. the Tri-Gamma.,.Silence, which followed these events, will be terminated by the announcements of the calls made by the various sororities. After that will come tfte usual laying down of rules for pledges.
Mining Board Reports At 
Meeting Held On Oct. 25
The regular Fall meeting of the 
Mining Advisory - Board, which is 
composed of coal mine operators, 
engineers, union officials and state 
representatives, . co-operating with 
the United States Bureau of Mines 
and the C. I. T. in conducting in­
vestigations in coal mining re­
search, was held Thursday evening, 
October 25, at the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
A report of coal mining studies 
during the past three years was 
presented by Chairman W. L. Af- 
feldcr, vice president of the Hill­
man Coal and. Coke Company.' St. 
J. Perrott, superintendent of the 
Pittsburgh Experiment Station of. 
the Bureau of Mines, gave a pro­
gress report of the studies carried, 
on this year by the research fel­
lows'.' Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Presi­
dent of C. I. T., discussed the 
Second International Conference 
'on Bituminous Coal to be held 
here November 19 to 24.
Reports on the program of metal­
lurgical research were presented 
during the next day’s technical ses­
sions. Speakers of various techni­
cal fields discussed problems relat­
ing to .their own special interests.
The annual-open meeting of-:the 
Metallurgical Advisory Board of 
the C. I. T. and the Bureau of 
Mines' was held at the Experiment- Station of the Bureau of Mines Friday, October 19.The Metallurgical problems af­fecting the fundamental principles of the making of steel were con­sidered at the meeting,' which was open to the. public. Technical ses­sions were held both in the morn­ing and in the afternoon in the auditorium of the Bureau of Mines.The scope and progress of studies 
of problems arising in' the manu­facture and use of steel occupied the major portion of the time of the board members and the visiting metallurgists.- 'The reports' cov­ered the progress ’ that . has been made since -1923 when i-lie Metal­lurgical Advisory Board was organ­ized by President : Baker for the purpose of bringing- the Depart­ment of Metallurgy of the C.. I. T. into close touch with the industries and to help the Department to in­crease its usefulness and service.
Many Alumni Return to Campus With 
Families to Participate in Reunioi 
Lunches and the Pitt-Carnegie Gan
All contributions to the Yell Con­test must be handed in by the mid-, die of November. The prize offered by the Graduate Manager’s Office «•ill consist of pairs of tickets in the reserved seat section for the New York University game. So far only two yells and one football “pep” song have been submitted, so that there is still ample oppor­tunity to submit the prize-winning yell.
The contest,. which began in' the middle of October, is open to any Carnegie student. Many complaints have been made by the student body about the' lack of spirit in the student cheering section. This yell contest will help determine whether the poor quality of cheer­ing from the students is, due to lack of popular yells, or to an actual decrease - in the school spirit of the Carnegie student body. Bob Wood is anxious that as many songs and yells as possible be turned in to him within the next few weeks.
Plaid Night Hawks To Play 
At Annual Military Ball 
In Carnegie Union Nov. 9
Honorary Cadet Officers To Receive 
Commissions and Insignia of Rank During Evening
The past week has seen much 
progress in the plans for the An­
nual Military Ball. The date has 
been set for Friday, November 9, which is the nearest available day to Armistice Day. Although this is the night before; the Georgetown University game at Albany, a large crowd is expected and many stu­dents will look on the dance as a good replacement for the. usual 
football game on Saturday.The Plaid Night Hawks, a well- liked local orchestra, lias been se­cured to furnish the music for the occasion. Chairman McNeill, of the dance committee is planning un­usual decorations and novel souve­nirs, which will add to the success 
of the evening.As has been the custom for sev­eral years the girls who are to be honorary cadet officers will be pre­sented with the commissions and insignia of rank at some time dur­
ing the evening.The elections of Honorary Of­ficer was held last Thursday. Four girls who were officers last year, will hold commissions. again this 
(Continued on Page 2)
Cabaret Dinner Dance H 
At Webster Hall On Fridf 
Evening For Alumni
THIRTY 1908 GRADS
ATTEND LUNCHE(
Classes Place Memorial Tabic In Administration Hall Floor
Dr. Thomas Will Talk To
Theta Tau Wednesday
A regular semi-monthly meeting of Theta Tau, honorary Profes­sional Engineering Fraternity will be held on Wednesday evening, October 31, at 7:30 p. m. in room 113 of Engineering Hall. Dr. Thomas, of the Westinghouse Re­search Laboratory, speaker of the evening will present his "Present Trends of Research.”
Dr. Thorny has had considerable experience as a lecturer. He has made several trips to New York and other cities to address large groups of engineers.
Theta Tau is continuing its policy- -of having two meetings a month, one a business meeting and the other a technical meeting which' will -consist of a lecture by- an Engineer- followed by a gen­eral discussion• '• in which all may participate.
- Notices have been sent to all 
alumni who live in town. whose 
addresses are known. "A social 
Hour Will follow-' the lecture and 
discussion.
On Friday and Saturday, of k week, Carnegie Tech celebrated annual Alumni Homecoming' wi 
tlie reunions of the classes of 19C 1913, 1918, 1923, and 1928, whi. 
were attended .by more than 3; graduates. The Homecoming wa marked by a number of successfi events, outstanding among them luncheon, 'a Cabaret Dance, and tli Pitt-Carnegie game.
The classes who shared the wee! end as their reunion period wcr those of 1928, J923, 1918, 1913, avfil 1908, which came in for the lioii's share of honor and attention inas­
much as its members were the first g:aduates of Carnegie Tech. In their honor, a meeting was held Friday at 11 A. M. in the Trophy Room of the Gym; this mee VVOL was concluded by the unveiling bf a diamond-shaped tablet sunk the floor of Administration 1. This tablet, commemorating twentieth reunion of the 1908 elf cs, bears those numbers on it; cach of the tour classes that 1 reunions last Friday.
After the ceremony that mar the beginning of this new cusl at Carnegie which, will eventu; give each of th,e graduating clas 
a marker, the returned alumni w'i given a luncheon. While Dr. Bal entertained the members of 1 class of 1908, with their wives,
Ins office, in Administration H« the others had a lunch in the Hu house under Margaret Morrison.
The afternoon provided the alur. hi with an opportunity to inspe't tl-.e school again. At the time the renewed acquaintance with old prj lessors.
In the evening the Cabaret Dane at. Webster Hall was attended b the alumni. The crowd was s large that not. only was the mai dining room' used, but also sever 
adjoining rooms. Between danci* for which the Collegiate Imp played, the guests were cntcrtaim- by a novel program. The Ok Collegiate Six was back to do its share in the entertainment, to which several vaudeville acts from down* town theaters also contributed. *The final and largest event on the program, the Pitt-Tech game, furnished all the good football an­ticipated. The alumni thrilled again to the sound of the familiar Car­negie war-cries, rose with the others to cheer on their team, and left t.he game feeling that it had, been a fitting culmination to Carnegie’s most successful Alumni Homecom- tug.
Royal Cortissoz to Speak 
Tonight on International
Royal Cortissoz, art critic on tlici New York Herald-Tribune, will speak tonight in the Carnegie Music1 Hall at the second of the siv Tues: day evening lectures on the twenty- seventh Carnegie Institute Interna­tional Exhibition' of. Paintings.
Mr. Cortissoz is the author o? numerous' books on art subjects. Hi*i- subject on the present lecturc will be “The Present Situation.-' Tin:purpose of these lectures is to he!;» the general public to understand and appreciate the pictures in the Inter­national.
On Tuesday evening, November 6, Rockwell Kent, arti.st, and a member of the Jury of Award for the In­ternational, will use as his subject, '. (Continued on Page 2)
Drama Department Graduates Employed In 
Widely Varied Fields of Theatrical Work
An -astonishing range in the pres­
ent. activities of recent graduates of 
the Drama School has ‘ een revealed in recent investigation. The occupa­tions range from community theater work to vaudeville. Though the ma­jority of the alumni are acting, many are dir..-tors, scenic- c. costume de­signers, producers, and teachers in dramatic schools.
A number, of graduates are delay­ing. . important roles in New York productions, among them: HardieAlbright in “Gang War;” Lois Shore and .Ross Hertz in “Eva the Fifth;” Norman . Kosiiifki in “The Night Hostess;’’ Irene Kosinski in “The Command Performance’;” Ben Wel- den : in:.•“Ringside;”. Eula :Guy in “Women;”. John Burns and . Paul McGrath in Theater Guild com­panies, and Charles McCarthy in Eva Lcgalliene’s Civic ! *pertory Co.On tour;are Maury Tuckerman in George Arliss "Merchant of Venice C-'fford Edge in “The Dagger and
the Rose;” Garret Kraber in “Tin: 
Trial of Mary Dugan;” Joseph 
Woods and Robert Pike in Fritz Leiber’s Shakespeare company ; 
Charles McClelland in Walter Hamp­den’s company; Mitchell Blistein in “In Abraham's Bosom;” and Mary Blair in "Paris Bound.”
Among graduates who are actii);.;, in other cities, are Ca:leton Youu?' with the Charles Wagner Repertory company in Baltimore; John Wil­lard, with the Dudley Players in Chicago; Betty Lindsey with the Waterbury Players, Waterbury; Carl Reid, Russell Collins, Ehen Lowe, Helen Forrest and Ma: - Eisensüu with the Cleveland Playhouse, Cleve­land, O.; Arvid r "dall, Russell Spindler, ¦ Charles Schlesinger, Don -Wilson and F. Leon Ford with the Goodman Repertory theater. Chicago, and 'Margaret'Werts with the Salem Players; Salem. 'Vaudeville has claimed Dorothy I (Continued on Page 4)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 19
ROYAL CORTISSOZ TO
SPEAK TONIGHT
(Continued from Page 1)
While heard that Gilmore Tilbrook, 
former head of the Employment Bureau, came to Pittsburgh last week in time for the W. & J. game and has stayed here all week. Fred Foster, first football captain, flew from California to Arizona on 
his way back for the Homecoming. He had intended to fly all the way out; leaving earlier than he had planned, he found it' unnecessary to fly all the way. Mrs._ Foster accompanied him on his trip here. Jimmy Robertson had also regis­
tered before this time.The complete list of names will be printed next week.
Peking.—Schools and universities in this city may not be able to open their doors to students on Oc­tober 1, as scheduled, because there is no money on hand with which to pay for fuel and janitors, much less teachers and professors.The Nanking Ministry of Educa­tion is receiving lhe blame for the situation, because certain specified funds long used for schools and colleges are being held up, or else arc cbing diverted to unknown uses.
omecoming Talk jCLAN NEWSshard acting as toastmistrcss, and Mrs. Ella Brown of the State Teacher’s College at Stroudburg, will deliver the invocation. The princi­pal speaker at the banquet is Airs. Helen Taft Manning, of Bryn Mawr college.The Saturday session will be given over to the problems of high school deans. At this morning’s meeting, Miss Green will speak on “The Part of , the Dean in Academic Adjust­ment.” After the general discussion the entire session will adjourn.
“Art, the Critics, and the Public.” Doctor Frederick Mortimer Clapp, 
head of the Department of Fine Arts, University of Pittsburgh, will lecture on Tuesday evening, Novem­ber 13, on "What Can We Know About It?" On Tuesday, November 20, Doctor Henry Turner Bailey, director*of the Cleveland School oi: Art, will speak on "The Acid Test in Art.” The last lecture of the scries will be given on November 27, by Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., of Princeton University. The lecturcs will all be open to the public.
rly Friday afternoon found ' alumni traveling back and 
upon the campus. Every- ' up to this time had exceeded ctations. Almost 30 graduates ic class of 1908 and their wives jded the luncheon given to i by President Baker. The iieon was a great success from y viewpoint. The class of 1.908 . toured the campus in a body seemed to be enjoying them­es immensely. The lunch in field house was very well at- 
led also.y Friday morning over 300 tick- had been sold to the Cabaret ncr Dance at Webster Hall. As main dining room of Webster 
11/ holds only 350 people, more ¦m; had to be arranged ,for. It S expected a great many would nc without making, arrangements orehand.The register in the Trophy Room ? not have very many names it up to Friday at 3 o’clock;
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
CLAN
Upon hearing that Carnegie had finally defeated the jinx, the South­ern California Clan, in a telegram to Buddy Overend, sent congratu­
lations on . Carnegie’s wonderful victory.
NEWARK CLANOn October 23 at 8 o’clock, the Newark Clan held a meeting at the 
Wilkins Coffee House, 7 West Park street (a block west of Broad street opposite the Public Service 
Building,). The Clan almost al­ways holds its meeting at this place.-Everyone was • expected to come, men, women, boys, girls, husbands and wives. There was a great amount of football talk that took up most of the evening. All the accounts and stories about, the W. & J. game were fully discussed. The big topic, however, was the Pitt game. "Will Carnegie .win?” ,vas the question. The iinal dis­cussion was how badly the team will beat Pitt, it was not decided.Arrangements were made for coming back for Homecoming by' all those who expected to return. The others will listen to the game over someone’s radio. $ Oh, yes, aside from football talk there were also refreshments and cards.
PLAID NIGHT HAWKS TOPLAY AT ANNUAL BALL
(Continued from Page 1)
year, one of whom will be Honor­ary Major. Out of a group of eleven other junior and senior girls, 
three have been elected to fill the vacant captaincies. The result of the election will not be announced until the night of the Ball, at which time the ceremony of installation will lake place.The dance will last from 9 till 1. Tickets will be on sale in the near future. R. O. T. C. students will be given a chance to purchase them during some Thursday drill period. The price will be $2.'pci' couple. Tickets will also be sold at the door, but students who in­tend to go are urged to make their purchases as early as possible.
PRINTING DEPARTMENT
HAS UNIQUE MAGAZINE
(Continued from Page 1)
O., who is field secretary of the In­ternational Association of Electro- typers.
Mr. John Clyde Oswald of New York, the managing director of Em­ploying Printers of (New York City.Dr. J. H. McFarland of Harris­burg, Pa., chairman of the U. T. A.A similar letter was read from committee on legislation.
Dr. F: H. Bird, from University of Cincinnati, O.
Air. D. Loren Davis of Chicago,111., who is director of the .Depart - ment of Production Management of the U. T. A.
Mr. D. C. McMurtic of Chicago,111., Typographical Counccllor of tl'e Ludlow Typograph Company.Mr. Sol Hess of Philadelphia, Pa. assistant Art Director of the Lans- ton Monotype Company.Mr. R03- K. Atumma of Pittsburgh, Pa.,' Service Department of Ailing and Cory. •,. /Mr. Frank J. Smith of Rochester, N. Y., President of the U. T. Aj.Mr. J. J. Dcviny of Chicago, '.II* Field Secretary of the U. T. A.
I Air. V. W. Hurst of Rochester Y., President of the Amcr: Photo-Engravers’ Association._Air. Fred J. Hartman of Chic111., Director of Education of U. T. A.Air. E. W. Palmer of Kins] Tfcnn., past president of the Emj ing Boc¡¿binders of America.Most of the lectures will be g to particular classes in printing, oral large meetings will b. bei conjunction with the printing or i/.ations of this city and will be dressed by leading men in the dustry.
ever tried 
our friends?
oils for Diesel engines, and for burning under boilers."The explanation of the eager­ness . to achieve this transmutation is easily understood. The man who solves this problem -\vi 11 not only settle an economic question of the greatest importance but lie will go far toward making the' countries of Europe self-sustaining should another war arise. It has been stated that although Great Britain exports in -normal times many mil­lions of tons of coal in a year, she imports more thermal units in the form, of petroleum products than she exports in the form of coal.”If the native coal can be turned into oil, immense wealth will be added to the nation's resources. The same is true of the other countries of Europe where coal is f.und. Aloreovcr, since a modern battle cannot be fought without gasoline, those countries which do not have oil deposits have an add­ed reason for making synthetic petroleum from coal.
Any man who wears John 
Wards will tell the same 
story.
The leathers in John 
Wards -are choicer, wear 
better. The fit and work­
manship are more expert. 
They have more style ap­
peal to Ttien of the bette 
class.
The prices? $7 and $9.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The Philadelphia Clan lield its first family party of the 1 <¿28-29 season October 16. It was such an event that Tom Shea, the new secretary-treasUrcr, wrote a letter describing the event:In "El Patio” of Hotel Ben 
Franklin, the intercollegiate hotel cf Philadelphia, we met Tuesday evening, October 16, for our first 
dinner and fireside chat of the sea­son.Ted Repplicr and President Scott 
had arranged an exquisite dinner. For this and their other efforts to show us a good time, we just could not refrain from giving Lhe boys a hand and a rising vote of thanks.Dinner over, E. L. Smith of the 
Pittsburgh Clan, gave us’ the "low down” on the football situation out Schenlcy Park way. Carnegie of '28 looks good to us old timers out here along Lhe Delaware, and boys, we’re with you.Jack and Mrs. Ferguson finally rounded us up for a more formal meeting. When the smoke cleared away, our good old standby L. E. Evlinc, was found to be the clan president for this coming sea­
son. Then after a campaign con­ducted solely by our old pal Til­brook, yours truly was doubly hon­ored by finding himself the new secretary-treasurer.Here’s the dope for the season. 
Our family parlies arc to be held monthly at the Ben Franklin Hotel; the first Saturday evening of each month, beginning with De­cember. We’ll have a club room 
for our private use with generally a dinner and dancing in "El Patio.” 
Of course, visitors will always be
ixconronATaD .-w SATU RUDUYNYU OVVU
StoresinNewYork - Brooklyn 
Newark and Philadelphia 
On display at 
J. R. Scheib & Bros
4515 Center Avenue, . Pittsburgh, Pa. I
ANNOUNCEMENT
FOR
L. G. BALFOUR COMP AN’
Authorized Jewelers for 95% of all Nation Fraternities 
Also Christmas Cards and Favors
Carnegie Representatives:
PAUL K. SCHELL and LOUIS FAHNESTOCK, III
624 Clyde St. Schcnlcy 9!
A good shoe lo 
ask for by name 
-1IORSEGUARDS
TOMORROW
Is an old deceiver and his cheat never grows old.
READ THAT AGAIN, you good folks who for 
some time have been promising yourself a box in 
our Fire and Burglar Proof Safe Deposit Vault.
The battle is won when you come in and sign up, 
thus insuring yourself full protection against 
loss, fire and burglary for your valuable posses­sions.
Arrange for it this week, the low cost is sur­
prising.
“Honest, Steve, this game 
against Dad’s Alma Mater 
is like playing the Day 
Nursery.
“I’m going to telephone 
and tell him so, when it’s 
over.”
“It’ll be funny, won’t it, 
when you kid him along at 
HIS expense?”
S-I-G-N-A-L-S!
Even If you’re “broke,” you can 
telephone home—just tell 
the Operator to reverse 
the Charge
“THE OAKLAND BANK” 1
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
Giinbels Lj
Mayfair Sports /
Shop . . . the Rendezvous^^^UJii^ y 
of College Co-eds
Students from both sides of Forbes street will find all their 
campus requirements in the way of sports dresses, sweaters, 
skirts and ensembles . . . short and long leather coats . . . fully supplied at moderate cost at Gimbels. Attractive 
frocks as low as $15.75 and sweaters for but $3.95 are ex­
amples of the sort of Gimbel prices co-eds like.
Compunti
SCHENLEYSTRANDMANOR
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
¦WEDNESDAY, OCT. SO IiAST TIMES TODAY
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY, OCT. 30-31 
Jacqueline Logan—Clive Brook
in ‘MIDNIGHT MADNESS’
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY 
Charles Farrell—Janet Gaynor
in “STREET ANGEL”
FRIDAYFRIDAY
in “The Fortune Hunter”
SATURDAY MATINEE
REX BELL
in “COWBOY KID”
SATURDAY EVENING
—In—
‘Clothes Make the Woman’
Tlio Mnstcr Actor In His Mastcrplccc
“THE PATRIOT”
SATURDAYTHURSDAY-l'RIDAY-SATURDAY 
Margaret Mann—June Collyer
in “FOUR SONS”
Supported By a Great Cast 
MONDAY-TUESDAY, NOV. 5-6
in “The Code of Scarlet’REGINALD DENNY
in “ON YOUR TOES”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
SALLY PHIPPSCOLLEEN MOORE
in “OH KAY”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
“PRINCE FAZIL”
With a Great Cast of All StarsGimbels—MAYFAIR SPORTS SHOP—Third Floor.NONE BUT THE BRAVE’
SAVE MONEY. GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS AT THE TARTAN OFFICE
ALUMNI NEWS

---------------------------------------------------

^TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1928.THE .CARNEGIE TARTANXihc CarneQie flMaiò
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
INTER-FRATERNITY VOTES 
ON RUSHING EVENTS
(Continued from Page 1)
The Engineers’ Smoker 
Proves Successful
Lively Interest Shown By Men in Election of Officers
The annual smoker in the En­gineering school, held in connec­tion with the election of officers 
lor the year 192S-29 .last Friday evening was as successful as pre­vious ones. This group always was more interested in school poli­tics than any of the other branches and this in turn assures them of a fair turnout.
The business of the smoker was transacted as quickly as was pos­sible and the following men were elected to office:D. A. Bush, president.E. H. McDermott, /vice president.E. D. Smith, secretary.
S. O. Hough, treasurer.The officers were given the co­operation, of the students and much will be expected from them es­pecially in connection with the En­gineers' banquet which is an an­nual event held around the Christ­mas holidays.
Eats and entertainment were fur­nished after the elections and a regular get-together meeting was held.
Paris.—Discovery that, four 1 known mural paintings by French painter Carot arc threat cd with ruin in the little chprtih Villa d'Avray, has resulted jk movement for better protection such art heritages. <
Corot did much of his-'best wc in the village on the outskirts Paris. It was during his stay the that several other painters offer to decorate the walls of the chun Although not orthodox-in J»is > ligiou, Corot was always sin mental, and he selected one of 1) best canvases to be hung in t! 
chapel.
ÌNew Officers Elected
In the Arts School 
------------ i
¡¡Attendance Large, Based on Num­ber of Registrants
The annual elections for officers 
in Fine Arts was held in the Arts School last Monday evening at 10 
«'clock. A representative'group at- Kndrd based on the number of ft.Udchts registered in this branch.I This was due to the pep rally onj 1 lie <-part of the outgoing officers.XI they worked mighty hard toI gel every one to attend.| The following officers were clcct-• ret for the coming year:J. H. Sansonneti, president.W. E. Hoover, Jr., vice president. J 1-1. E. Mauro, secretary.1 J. De Siamone, treasurer.: Congratulations arc in order to‘the aforementioned men and we hope that they will prove them­selves' able to carry on the good• work in their respective offices andSalso that they will continue to in­stil the school spirit in their group during the coming year. \The president of the N. S. C., ¦E. E. McDonald, gave a short ad­dress in which he outlined the .’duties' of the officers which was .well received.
Some New Features 
For Our Comfort
delinquent fraternities be required 
to either post their $50 bond or 
forfeit- their right to conduct so­
cial events; this ruling to begin 
immediately. (
Nominations • were made for the 
office of sccrctary- to replace 
Fahnestock, who resigned. Leslie' 
and Ashwell were nominated for 
the vacant position. The vote will 
take place at the next Council 
meeting.
The investigation committee re- j 
ported that several clues were re­
ceived concerning pre-season rush­
ing on the part of some fraterni­
ties. The representatives were told! to warn their respective fraterni- j ties that no such action would be tolerated by1 the Council.The result of the votes taken indicate that rushing season will I be conducted the same as in pre­vious years, with all forms of en­tertainment permitted. The next meeting of Council was set for Saturday, November 10.
Carnegie Tech Always on the For­
ward March’
Students returning to' the Night 
colleges this year can notice some 
new, improvements which* arc al­
ways aimed, to help them out.
First, the new road by the Com­
mons Building is all completed, 
grass and all, and it ccrtainly docs 
add to the beauty of the grounds.
Next, parking regulations arc es­
tablished and we know how to 
park at least. Let us all try to consider the other fellow when parking, and perhaps a few more cars can be placed nearer the College.Then in Industries we can now get a drink without walking a mile for it. On each floor fountains are placed with the idea of eliminating the unnecessary walking. We In­dustries men surely appreciate this feature.Did you notice how .quickly you were registered this year? Well, this is another excellent improve­ment for your benefit.Look over the Campus in gen­eral—does it not bespeak a won­derful change all around? Each year a step forward is made.Let us ask, what arc we doing to help along? Then, perhaps, an­other question—How can I help the good cause? Well, there arc two very needy projects to which you could contribute your bit.First, -the sadly needed Shelter Pavilion at the “Cut,” and next, the Activities Building. Are these not worth at least your Breakage De­posit. Think it over.
show the ever-popular Fox Movie­tone- news, in which the doings of the world are heard as well as seen.Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special Student 
Rates
,N6 PARTCXEG
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
GOG State Thc»t6r Bldjr.
SCHENLEY
"The Patriot” which makes its 
•final appearance at the Schcnlcy on 
Wednesday is Emil Jannings’ great­
est starring vehicle, directed by 
Ernst Lubitsch, and brings to thd 
screen a story of the Russian court 
a century ago, which for suspense, 
dramatic force and lavishness of production, has rarely been equaled, never surpassed, in any local thea­tre. It will be followed by "Four Sons,” the feature picture for Thurs­day, Friday and Saturday.
Colleen Moore, the star of "Lilac Time” in “Oh, Kay!" will be shown 
at the Schcnlcy Monday and Tues­day. It offers many laughs.
Style Q)isplay
FLORSHEIW
SHOES
^or College SMe)
Brand of Quality 
in our Service
The qualities women ad­
mire, and men, too— 
Original ideas—Appro­
priate equipment—And 
perfection of performance 
are found in our catering 
of all affairs.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions. .
Weddings a Specialty
THEATRE TIPSNon Delivery 
of the TartanFix special production . “Prince Fazil.” With a special selected cast of players will be the feature.
GRAND
Opening for its fourth week in- Downtown Pittsburgh; and third week at 'the Grand, “The Singing Fool” will remain the week of Octo­ber 29. It will also open that week 
at the Regent.
The story is one of a song writer who helps the woman he loves to a placc as a revue star, and marries her only to be left with a small son, when the faithless woman deserts' 
him for a richer man. .In the cast supporting the famous star are Betty Bronson, Josephine Dunn, Reed' Howes, Ed Martindale, Arthur Housman, little David Lee and Robert Emmett O’Connor. “The Singing Fool” is A1 Jolson at his glorious best and no motion picture ever shown in Pittsburgh has re­ceived the enthusiastic reception as it has been accorded. To miss it is not to sec the film that is the topic conversation wherever movies arc 
spoken of. ,The Grand’s short screen subjects 
will include a comedy and news.
MANOR
Charles Farrell and Janet Gaynor in “Street Angel” in their latest starring since "Seventh Heaven” will be the feature, at the Manor Wed­
nesday and Thursday."The Fortune Hunter" will pro­vide many laughs with Syd Chaplin 
on as star this Friday.Saturday matinee — a thrilling Westerner with Rex Bell in "The Cowboy Kid,” will be the feature presentation.Saturday evening, Reginald Denny in “On Your Toes” will hold the screen.Monday and Tuesday, a William
Night students are complaining about not receiving the Tartan.The Plaid has received quite a number of complaints regarding the non-receipt of the Tartan, which is regretted very much.We have done all possible to get the paper out to the Registered Night Students, but find the delay is not at the Tartan end.Ncw_ arrangements will have to1 be devised in order to expedite'Hie; delivery in the future. This wil|l; be one of the problems for the N. S. C. to take up.AH Registered Night Students who arc not receiving; the Tartan arc requcstdd to send in their name and address to the Tartan office, room 12, Industries Building, and we will do the rest.
DAVIS
In addition to first-time showings in Pittsburgh of the filmization of "The Michigan Kid,” from Rex Beach’s thrilling novel of the same name, with Renee Adorcc and Con­rad Nagel' co-fcaturcd, the. Davis theater during the week of Octobcr 29, will present six of the finest acts of Keith-Albcc vaudeville now play­ing the leading variety halls of the country, including Joe Morris and Winn Shaw, Josie Carold, Bud and Tommy and Ann Gold. Vaudeville \y.ill be followed by film features.
October 29th and 30th 
at Webster Hall and 
Frat Houses
STRAND
Wednesday and Thursday, Clive Brook and Jacqueline Logan in "Midnight Madness” will hold the screen at the Strand. It is a thrill­ing story of the African jungle with action in every foot of this man’s fight against odds to win his wife’s love.! Friday, Noycmber 2, a poig­nant l.ovc story of grim Russia and gay Hollywood enacted by a great cast in “Clothes Make the Woman,” will be showing at the Strand with Eve Southern leading the great cast of characters.
Ken Maynard makes his greatest picture which is ‘.‘The Code of Scar­let"'\md comös to the Strand Satur­day. It is a thrill-a-a-minute of the Northwest Mounted Police.Monday and Tuesday. Sally Phipps in “None But the Brave.” Life guards and mermaids in a carnival of fun, and Miss Phipps is support­ed by Charles Norton and J. Farrell MacDonald and a bevy of bathing girls in a beauty contest filmed in gorgeous technicolor-.
O. L. STENDAL
Spccial College Representative of th« 
Florsheim Shoe Company
A special exhibit where 
you can make your iv JI ’ 
vidual selection from, 
season’s finest showii'- s; 
young men’s shoe sti^'S,
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable and 
Standard Machines.
STANLEY
“The Night Watch” is another high spot in the directorial career of Alexander Korda, whose otnei American productions have placed him in the front rank of film direc­tors. Based on the stage success of a few years ago, “In the Night Watch,” it was adapted to the screen by Lajos Biro, and is accredited to be Miss Billie Dove's most charming dramatic vehicle. She is supported by Donald Reed and Paul Lukas.Thé Stanley’s program will again
See our Big Supply and get 
special student rates.1 here arc over 40 s mosquitoes in New Jerseyspecies-
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
VAN DEVEN'
202 Fifth Avenu¿ 
444 Wood Street
203 Sixth Streèt
FOX HUNTING IN FAMOUS LEICESTERSHIRE
Retailing isapigf 
foi a success® 
OurOr^amzalnSpjf 
Many of oui a|fÜ 
Hitfh. Schoo|||| 
Visit lhe offôfâ 
iateieslin^-'iibfòJ
$eat promise
^fÄ&ppoituiuties. 
HSSÄäsT. 
Ä^f§SF-lves aie 
P^lQuates. 
H|p5äip^jiecloi foi 
I^OTLttós subject.
^ÄAÜFMÄNNS¿r v.'rirTHavknuk pittìbumh
Ao other sport leaves one so at peace with alL the worid. 
English, hunting men for generations have had this 
sense oj contentment made even more complete hi/ 
the enjoyment of a favorite BBB OlVN MAKE 
briar pipe.FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
IFTH AND OAKLAND :: PITTSBURGH
The fox breaks cover . . . the pack in full crty. Up and over 
and on . . . and in at the deathl Sport unexcelled. Then the 
slow return—tired, happy, reliving every thrilling happening 
of the day. It is in such moments that pipe-lovers for years 
have had an extra enjoyment with their BBB Own Make 
briar pipes.
These fine pipes have stood for generations as a standard 
I of excellence. Expertly made of the choicest of materials. 
! And, as always, each pipe is individually baked by the exclu- 
[ sive BBB process, assuring mellowness and coolness that have 
I bccomc traditional.
... 2FB LNCA briars may be had either in the highly 
i polished smooth finish or in the sandblasted ripple finish. 
Each pipe is marked with a red diamond on the stem. Five 
dollars the pipe. Wm. Dcmuth & Co., New York and London. 
Established 1S62.
Sightseers returning from the Alps never 
fail to babble of the marvelous echoes that re- 
verberate so obligingly from peak to peak.
But no such phenomenon matches a certain 
echo that keeps circling this whole mundane 
sphere. It is the best-known cigarette slogan 
ever coined — the Chesterfield phrase “They 
Satisfy.”
Originated to describe a unique coupling of
qualities seemingly opposed—“they’re mild, and 
yet they satisfy”—its descriptive accuracy was 
instantly perceived. Today it echoes and re­
echoes wherever cigarettes are smoked :
“Satisfacen... ils satisfont.. .THEY SA TISFY/”
And rightly enough, for Chesterfields are mild 
— and they DO satisfy ... and what more can 
any cigarette offer?
We are always willing and ready to 
serve you in any banking capacity. 
Remember that your bank can offer 
you worthy features other than a 
checking account.
Capital $300,000 Surplus $300,000MILD en ouTHEY SATISFY

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1928.
I A. Gives Its Monthly 
inner In Faculty Club 
Rioms of M. M. College
Inti iiiing with its social pro-1 
t'ae V,. W. C. A. will have its 
ithl\ dinner November 13 at 6 
bek in the Faculty Rooms of 
Cgar t Morrison, 
he pionthly meetings, usually in 
¦f. io m of a buffet dinner at 
!<|:h i prbminent speaker attends, 
held on the second Tuesday of 
fnoilth. All Y. W. C. A. 
¦c invited to be present to 
,'h th 3sc| girls who are not on the 
binct the opportunity of getting 
quail ted with the others, 
iast Tuesday, October 23, the 
Y. W. C. A. drive was opened 
a dinner at Schcnlcy hotel, 
citkr branches of the Y were 
j(csclted. Approximately 1,000 
lc were present. This number 
Judes those from the three Pitts- irgh colleges, Carnegie Tech, iiinsyivania College for Women, Id University of Pittsburgh. Car­rie Tech ' representatives were: ban Green, Mrs. Patterson, chap- ¡>ne of Laurel Hall, Miss Leach, brehce Jenny, Jeannette Folmar, argai‘ct Nicholas, Frances Guy, itogen Scharry, Ann Dickinson ?d Ruth Carey. The ’large, attend- 
ice necessitated the use of the Vo ballrooms of Schcnlcy Ijlotel. jie main speaker was Miss Mary iron, Chairman of the foreign divi- j>n of the National Council of j. \y. C. A. Her subject was 
[he Y. W. C. A. as a World Wide j-ganization.”;ljie .remainder of the program isHsted of Negro Spirituals, by : Negro girls of the Center Avc- iiilbranch ; various numbers by a ihged orchestra, and a pageant 'representatives of all the city 
^ranches.
!qdents To Vote On 
1 j Required Summer Reading
&.n educational inventory” is ig to be taken next month :ii questionnaires concerning the Uired summer readings are to sent out to all the uppcr-class- 
n.lerctofore it has been required jt four books be read tlie first nmer; eight books the second .imer if the original four were {’ read; and twelve books during• last summer if the eight were L- read in the previous year. At i t beginning of the next ye.tr,• examination was given to in- re thorough knowledge of the 
joks read.Although no complaints on the tier have reached the faculty, *y have a desire to discover [lent opinions on the subject by “¦us. or questionnaires. Upper- :ien will be expected to fill c.sc blanks and probably, if Indents are decidedly against lea, summer readings will be ;ly_ abolished. If, however, jnajority of the pupils favor endings, they will undoubtedly 
¿on tinned.
*Y” HOPES TO EXCEED GOAL 
AS DRIVE DRAWS TO CLOSE
The "Y” drive for membership subscriptions is progressing only fair to date. The Y. M. C. A. has ;set its goal at $3,000 and the Y. IW. C. A. at $500. TJie difference in the monetary value of the re­spective goals is due to the fact that men's subscriptions run $3-and $5, and 'the women's only $1.
The reports of the various’ work-: ers arc being turned in late this year, and no accurate account can be made with respect to last year’s drive. It appears, however, that the percentage of subscribers to the Y. M. C. A. is higher in propor­tion to those who subscribed to the Y. W. C. A.The time limit for the drive has already been exceeded, but those in charge intend to bring it to a close next Friday. By that time it is expected that complete re­ports will be turned in by all the workers, and that the ultimate goaf of both the men’s and women’s or­ganizations will have been reached.
“Who Was At The Game Saturday?” 
Asked By Inquisitive Student
Who Was Not There
Graphica Club Has I Prof- Ely RepresentsBanquet At The Inn' C. I. T. At Education Meet! AIR POCKETS
)
NE of the heut help« to the ntuilcnt 
)'« n dependable1 fniinlnin pen. The 
Slnifcr Poll & Gift Shop in Jenkins 
•míe will «ell you n pen with "cx- 
hut” pi IVllenen ko you can lio mire (lint 
r hnml Im “fitted»** They nino repnir 
pen« of nil ninlic«. ¡Mention thin nr* 
' (or Apocini connlilernlloii.
Council Changes Plebe 
And Soph Dance Dates
The student council, at its last meeting, has interchanged the dates of the Freshman-All Carnegie Dance and the Sophomore Hop. According to previous arrange­ments the Freshman-All Carnegie Dance was to be held November 23, and the Sophomore Hop on November 16. The various officers in charge have been notified of the change in the dates of these two events and are rapidly proceeding with their plans.The officers of the Sophomore class have not announced any defi­nite arrangements for the Hop, but those in charge hope to be able soon to announce definite plans. The committee Will be appointed within the next few days and will begin to make preparations for the 
Hop."A committee has already been appointed for the Freshman-All Carnegie Dance. The committee chosen consists of Pclton, Wood­ruff and Campficld from the Col­lege of Fine .Arts; Beck, Herron and Dudgeon from the College of Engineering and the College of Industries, and McClosky, Croylc and Accipiter representing Mar­garet Morrison Carnegie College. Miss Accipiter of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College will act in the capacity of chairman.No definite arrangements con­cerning the price of admission, the orchestra and the hours, of the dance have been made. It has been . decided, however, that the dance , shall be held . in the Car­negie Union. The committee lias already made tentative plans, .which will be discussed when it meets Tuesday.
Thistle Board "Announces
Senior Pictures Schedule
Announcement has teen made by the. Thistle Board that Senior pic­tures will be taken beginning No­vember 1. A list of time for sitting will be posted, and the staff is desirous that all Seniors follow this schedule rigidly so that the issue may appear on scheduled time.Due to the inability of the Seniors to keep their appointments, last year's Thistle was late in be­ing published. The Board wants no such complications this year so it is urging all Seniors to respond to individual notices for appoint­ments.
All Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
Ginb elbb sMayfnlbyn riSp ot/S
Royal Portable Distributors- 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg.
624 LIBERTY AVE.
-COURT 8320
Branch Store 
428 FOURTH AVE.
"Who was at the game- Satur­
day?” asks one of the unfortunates 
who could _ not possibly attend. The questioned one obligingly enumerates their mutual acquaint­ances, adding a few remarks about each one, and the subfcct is dropped. The non-attender is not satisfied with the answer, however. He feels that there is something missing. He does not yet know “who was at the game,”
How can one adequately answer such a question by speaking of mutual acquaintances. The various groups who create the local color and the side line atmosphere must also be described.
The co-eds add color in the true sense of the word. A game certainly would be a dull one if the reds, blues, greens, and purples, comprising the collegiate misses' costumes did not stand out as beacon lights 4 to the players and urge them on to victory. It has even been rumored that at a north­ern college, all interest in the game was lost when,- for various reasons, women were not permitted to attend. The co-eds’ welcome addition to the atmosphere is cer­tainly sufficient compensation for any inconvenience that they might cause in the way of thoughtful queries concerning the game. Per-, liaps she who asked “How many quarters are there?” did tax her companion’s ability in mathematics and cause hasty delvings into hard
learned calculus to produce the required result. But he who finally provided the information will cer­tainly say that he was willing to do a little extra brain work for the. sake of the young lady’s presence. vAlumni contribute no small share to the observer's interest in the side lines. They attend with mixed sensations—the desire to be loyal to their Alma Mater and conse­quently to her present team, and a ' certainty that former teams which were active when they were undergraduates far excel the pres­ent squad. Be that as it may, the alumni come on with their usual good spirits looking forward to an evening of hilarious celebration after the game.It is in the groups of the men undergraduates that we find the most constructive comment. If the captain would but follow the abundance of good advice that is­sues from their midst, certainly there would be no excuse for de­feats. The willingness with which suggestions arc given is really astounding. Of course yells of “Down the referee!” arc excusable when one realizes that any one of the undergrads would certainly prove himself more capable of fill­ing the position than the one who has been obtained.But of course, football would not be football without this un­controllable enthusiasm and real side-line atmosphere.
Tau Beta Pi Joins
Sigrna Tau National
The Beta Pi, national engineer­ing honorary, held a smoker in Room \ 57, Science Building, on Wednesday, October 24. Faculty members were' present to discuss plans for the year.Eligibility requirements df new members were specified and it was decided to hold the fall call at an engineering assembly on No­vember 20. A speaker will be ob­tained for the occasion.The proposed merger of Tau Beta Pi and Sigma Tau, another national engineering honorary, wafe approved on the basis that they were practically identified in all re­spects. The granting of fellow­ships to Tau Beta Pi members through,the medium of a Tau Beta Pi fellowship committee was also approved. These fellowships will carry an annual stipend of $750, and will be available to nine mem­bers. These two problems will re­ceive the major share of discus­sion at the national convention to be held in St. Louis on Novem­ber 2 and 3. George M. Wile will represent the local chapter.After the meeting refreshments 
were served.
PRESIDENT BAKER TO HOLDFACULTY RECEPTION NOV. 3
On Saturday . evening, November 3, at 8 o’clock, President Thpmas Baker will hold a faculty reception in the College of Fine Arts. Among the guests invited to the reception are ministers of the city who have assisted at Chapel exercises, mem­bers of the Board of Trustees, and members of the Metallurgical and Mining Advisory Boards, as well as. all the members of the faculty.The new members of the faculty arc especially urged to attend this reception as it. is the president’s only opportunity to extend them a personal welcome into the faculty body. This occasion also furnishes an excellent means by which they may become more intimately ac­quainted with the other members of the present Carnegie faculty.Some time during the evening, a musical program will be presented in the Little Theatre of the Fine Arts Building. This affair is an annual one and has proved most successful in former years.
DRAMA DEPT. GRADUATES
(Continued from Page 1)
Raymond, Joseph Lazarovic, Ruth 
Aston, Josephine Copas and William 
Dickey. Motion picture actors among 
Carnegie, graduates include Kenneth 
Thomson, Arthur Ltibin and Mary 
Skurkay.
Engaged in the Little Theater 
Movement as directors of commun­ity organizations arc Frederic Mc­Connell, in Cleveland;. Howard Southgate, in Miami ; Alexander Wyckoff in Memphis ; Ramoii Sav­ie!:, in Nashville ; Bernard . Szold, in Omaha; Harry Hamilton, in Mont­gomery; Donald Marye, in Armis- ton; Hi*bbard Firkpatiick in Bir­mingham ; Janet Millis Shepherd, in Savannah ; Charles Meredith, in Santa Barbara; Marion Cox, in Salem.
The teaching profession has at­tracted Arleigh Williamson, Harold Schaughcney, and Valentine Windt. Engaged in designing costumes are Woodman Thompson, John 'Conway and Joseph Mullen.
The rapid progress in the print­ing industry has brought with it many new and difficult problems. A discussion of these problems will be given by Director Jewett at a banquet to be held by the Graphica in the Carnegie Inn at 6 o’clock tonight. All students of the printing department arc in­vited.The organization has been inac­tive in recent years but it will be reorganized and much is expected of it. The club is to be converted to an honorary and membership will be limited to those with good scholastic standing. It will prob­ably establish a scholarship in the Institute. Plans .are being made for obtaining, in conjunction with Carnegie, 50 of the best books of the year.Information concerning the Graphica may be obtained from the officers. President, E. Normandeau; vice president, W. Maurer; treas­urer, C. Rosenberg; secretary, K. Grcss.
SCABBARD AND BLADEHOST AT RUSHING SMOKER
The Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, was host to a number of juniors and seniors at a Smoker give in the Trophy Room of the Carnegie Gym last Wednesday.Captain Hill, a regular army .offi­cer station in Pittsburgh and com­mander of the Three'Hundred and Twenty-ninth R e s e r v e Engineer Regiment, was present as honor guest. He delivered a short ad­dress on his experience while sta­tioned in the Panama Canal Zone. He was the officer in charge of the topographical unit stationed in that section. The men were pre­sented- material relative to animal life, climate and sports. of the. I Canal Zone.Gordon Durr was chairman of the committee in charge of the I Smoker.
! Observe Carnegie Night
At Sixth Presbyterian
"Carnegie Tech Night,” an an­nual affair, will be observed, at the Sixth Presbyterian Church, Forbes and Murray avenues, next Sunday evening, November 4.Clyde M. Kelly, United ' States Congressman from this district, will be the principal speaker of the evening. It is expected that there will be responses from one or two members of the Carnegie stu­dent body. The Carnegie Glee Club and the Kiltie Band will be present, and will ghrc several 
numbers.After the speeches and musical numbers, refreshments- will be served to those present. The af­fair is being sponsored by Mr. Davis and the Y. M. C. A.
SCARAB MAKES ANNUAL
CALL.IN ARTS SCHOOL
‘Professor Sumner B. Ely, of the 
Mechanical Engineering Depart­
ment, is \o represent Dean Mott at a meeting of a selected group of educators to be held in New York, Friday, November 2, at. the residence of Sani A. Lcwisohn.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the need of a better knowledge of personnel and labor problems on the part of engineers who find 'their way into admini­strative work. A number of men interested in industry will be pres­ent and will add their practical experience to the theoretical ideas of the .educators.
Dean Dexter S. Kimball, of Cor­nell University, has charge of the invitations.
I
Dorms Elect New
Officers For 1928-29
With the election of officers in Henderson Hall, the dormitories have- been reorganized for the first semester of the 1928-29 term. Sco- bell Iiall holds a unique place be­cause it has an officer whose of­ficial . title is Custodian o*t ¦ the Plebcs. This office was created two years ago and has proved a success in regulating the dorm plebes.
The dormitories and their offi­
cers arc: Scobcll Hall, Samuel Bot- ‘.onari, president; John O. Moyer, secretary; Earl G. Miller, plebe 
custodian; .McGill Hall, F. W. Mc­Cullough, . president; R. W. Birk, vice- president; R. C. Waterhouse, treasurer; J. Bcechcy, secretary; Boss Hall, H. Brennan, president; A. B. Bevcrstock, vice president:' R. W. Kelly, secretary; Welch llall, L. Cheney, president; F. Mor­ris, vice president; G. E. Elrich, secretary; L. T. Powell, treasurer; Henderson Hall, J. Airgood, presi­dent; C. Rosenberg, vice president; J. Anderson, secretary; P. Pcra- zelli, treasurer; Miller Hall, L. Julius, president; Englcbrecht, B. Kristof, president.
The ruling body of all dormi­tory action, the Dormitory Coun­
cil, will be represented by R. D. Stratton, Scobcll; M. M. Warso, McGill; C. W. Armstrong, Boss; W. L. Zemberry, Welch, and T. H. Young, Flendcrson.
On Thursday, October 25, the 
students in Elements of Aeronauti­
cal -Engineering went on an inspec­
tion tour of Rogers Air Port, the 
local Army Air Terminal. The 
tour was conducted by Captain Vos, the head of Army Aviation in this territory. There was quite a variety of planes on exhibition, representing* the finest models of various manufacturers. To hear aircraft termed by names such as “coupe’’ or “two and three pas­senger” is a novel sensation, and may be the prediction of the time when planes arc as popular as cars arc. now.
An aeronautical exposition is being planned for Pittsburgh early J next year, and Barr Peat of Bettis field, who is to manage the exposi­tion, together with Mr, Blaisdcll of the Engineering Department of Carnegie arc making •arrangements to have , the plaid Carnegie plane in the exhibit.*****
The quota of thirty members to comprise the personnel of the Fly­
ing Club is rapidly being filled. 
Students or Faculty members who 
would like to join the Club *re 
(‘forged to have their applications 
for membership in by Thursday of 
this week. Applications and com­
plete information may be had from 
Wikolt in room 210 McGill Hall. *****
-There arc possibilities of the next inter-collegiate aviation meet being held at Pittsburgh. This wcfuUl mean an opportunity to sec college planes and gliders in com­petition—a new sport. Yeah, Car-
FRANK BROTHERS
RñhAvcntic Boot Shop
Between -17lb nnd -1Slh Street*. New \fcrk
Pittsburgh Shop 
Jenkins Arcade
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
Philae Temple, the Carnegie chap­ter of Scarab, professional archi­tectural fraternity, '-made its two annual calls for this year last Wednesday.Three men were pledged from the Senior Class and four from the Junior Class. The Seniors are: G. Crawford, J. Stauffer and C. Stott. The Juniors-are: P. Brum­field, J. Eason, J. Ralston and C. Stoody.
The fraternity plans an exten­sive program in its two . fields of endeavor, namely: Social and edu­cational. Lectures by noted , archi­tects and men of the allied pro­fessions constitute a vital part in the year’s program, while smokers and banquets will fulfill social plans.
DANCING 
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Monday and Friday Eve­
nings. Advanced, Thursday and Satur­
day Evenings. Private lessons by ap- pointment. Mayflower 7S91
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY. SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
Avoid theDormitory Blues
T>SU6 HEY are easily con­
tacted if you have to 
spend most of your time 
in your room grinding 
away at long: reports and 
b^ses.
Speed things up I Get a 
iemington Portable to do 
our writing. It will effect 
remarkable saving of 
riting time—to say noth- 
q of the greater neatness
and legibility of type­
written matter. Chances 
are, that means better 
marks, too.
Remington Portable is the 
smallest, lightest, most 
compact and most depend­
able standard keyboard 
portable. Weighs only 814 
pounds.net; carrying case only 4 inches high.
Monthly payments, if desired.
ANNOUNCING
The Opening Of
THE TECH 
BEAUTY SHOP
In Conjunction With
TECH BARBER SHOP
Forbes and Craig Sts.
A Course in
Handling Money
The formation of a bank­ing connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.
The experience in handling money, the friendly advice of specialists trained to meet every type of financial problem, will enable you to make the most of your allowance now. and will eventually help you to success in whatever line of work you may follow.
Remington 
Portable
Cnnvejrie Institute of Technology 
Administration Bldg.
Remington Rand Business Service, Inc., 
Bessemer Bldg., 102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
IN ALBANY NOVEMBER 10th
Carnegie Tech vs. Georgetown
ALSO IN ALBANY
STEEFEL BROTHERS
UA Bit of Fifth Ave. on State St.”
Carnegie Students Will Find Whatever 
They Are Seeking in Wearing Apparel 
in Albany’s Smartest Shop for Men.
;! Tickets On SaleStudent
Headquarters
STEEFEL BROTHERS
78-80 STATE STREET . ALBANY, NEW YORK
Special Notice Students
Let’s Renew Old Friendship
We arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxcdo Sui^and Accessories from us. 
LATEST STYLES ALL SIZES
Special Student RatesWhittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night’ Phone Lafayette 4791-R
P. M. I.
131-133 BELLEFIELD AVENUE.
Right through 
the clay!
Famous fabrics plus tlio latest note in style have always given genuine Alligators tho first call where class and quality count. Alligators are dis­tinguished for their indi­viduality, and to wear one is to enjoy absolute protection in all kinds of weather. Light, durable and gayly colored in a variety of models for every purse and purpose. Not only the famous Alligator Slicker but many new and exclusive models are now availr.bje. Alligators arc sold only at tha best stores and retail from $7.50 to $25.00. Seo the nc.y Alligator Aviation model at $10.00. Tho Alligator Company, St. Louis,Mo.
ALLIGATORTRADE-MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
Book Store
For Sale at
Administration Bldg.
Not a cough in a
says Norma Talmadge after the Blindfold Test
“When you see my new United Artists’ 
picture, ‘The Woman Disputed,5, you 
will notice that I smoke cigarettes in 
several scenes.
“Not wanting to show partiality to any 
one of the four leading brands, I decided 
to make my choice via the blindfold test, 
which I had heard of many times. 
Happily, I picked Old Golds.
“I found them smooth, mild and delight­
fully cool . . . Hereafter, when I am 
required to smoke I shall naturally in­
sist on Old Golds. There's not a cough 
in a film-ful!”
FHYBD 30UO0N1C . . . celebrated screen atar . . . smoking © P, .Lorillard Co., Eat. 1760 
OLD GOLDS in a scene from her latest United Artista' starring 
vehicle, "The Woman Disputed.”
MUSIC LESSONS
AT MODERATE RATES* IN ONE OF THE 
LARGEST SCHOOLS IN THE COUNTRY
Piano, Voice, Violin, Organ, Theory and Expression
30 Branch Studios. Send l'or Booklet
PITTSBURGH MUSICAL INSTITUTE, INC.
PITTSBURGH, PA.
College Jewelry — Seal Stationery — Pennants
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
THE INCOMPARABLE ... NORMA one to the beat loved actress«* In tha 
history of the aereen ... famous for her rôles in "Camille” and "Kikl.**
Made from the heart-lcaves o£ 
the tobacco plant . . . that’s the reason for r 
their honey-like smoothness . . . and that’s why j 
you can pick them with your eyes closed. jr
w *
SMOOTHER AND BETTER-“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”

---------------------------------------------------

fr U ES DAY, OCTOBER 30, 1928.THE CARXEGIE TARTAN5
Georgetown (Yes); IRISH (Sure); N. Y. U. (Why Not?)
.^PLAXihsba
BY
THOMAS LIPPERT
“BONECRUSHER” KARCIS
^NDER-DOG OR NO UNDER-DOG, the Tartans 
were hard pressed to emerge Victorious in their 
annual grid tilt. In all fairness, or, “give the 
devil his just dues,” we would say that it was 
undoubtedly Pitt’s first half. However, in the 
second period the eleven snapped out of their 
listlessness and put up a scrap against which 
Sutherland’s men were unable to cope. The six 
points gained could not be attributed to any 
“fluke” or “break,” but was straight football, 
with the Skibos driving irresistibly down the 
field. We are of the opinion that the Panther 
eleven was playing over its head with that occasional underdog 
brilliancy.
! L. FLANNAGAN, ROSENZWIEG, SHAUGHENCY AND 
! HARPSTER lead Steffen’s men in individual performance. The 
| remainder of the squad played a little under their usual game, 
i with nothing exceptionally brilliant. The defense, the greater 
j part of the game, seemed unable to stop the Panther rushes, and 
' had to fight through superb interference to get at the ball car­
riers. Considering the slippery condition of the ball the con- 
>• test was exceptionally free from fumbles and poor handling.
With never a chance to show his ability, prior to this game, 
Latham Flannagan may well be proud of his afternoon’s work.
1 His hurdling and' ball carrying was one of the features of the 
i day. The one touchdown was made possible by Rosenzwieg’s 
. difficult catch on the three yard line. It was a beautiful pass 
and a spectacular completion—one which changed the whole 
complexion of the game. Shaughency’s work on the end sur­
passed anything he has done as yet this season. He and Rosen- 
zwieg were equal matches for Pitt’s two, above the average, 
ends.
' '' 1 * * *. ' * . * + * * i
$OME INSIDE DOPE on the game: "Steffen used a six- 
man line ;at'i all tim.es, so Pitt would rush the ball and wear 
themselves out. They played nine men against our four center 
men, two guards and two tackles, but when they got within 
scoring distance another man wertt on the line and the Panthers 
couldn’t make an inch. With their six-man defensive it was 
difficult for the Tartan plays to click, but that seventy-yard 
march for the score Avas real football. Wally sure had them 
figured right.”
# * :|< :(< :|< :|: *
AS WAS EXPECTED, the Pittsburgh scandal sheets reek 
to the high heavens with Pitt praise. Alibis appear in ev^ry 
paragraph and every third word is “if.” With Moorehead but, 
Eyth arid Schnupp playing with injured shoulders, Melzeiner 
recovering from his operation and eight Sophomores playing 
' uicir first big game, we Were'more than satisfied with the final 
tally.
Some students wanted the vacation, others desired the cup, 
but it gave the editor much satisfaction to see the gloomy look 
on .the faces of Welsh, Kaufman, Walsh and 98 per cent of thq 
press box, when “Harp” crashed through.+ * * # * * ?
THE PANTHER CUBS fulilled the dope by twice crossing
the Plaid goal. The Pitt yearlings have a good club, without 
doubt superior to our first year men. Taken as a whole it was 
not an exceptionally good game, although the squad put up an 
excellent scrap and should be.complimented on the score.
Both of the touchdowns made were possible only because 
of vct;y evident “breaks” for the Pitt men. McCurdy’s fumble, 
unusual; for him, and the bouncing, interfered forward were 
direct attributes , to the opponent’s victory. And the toughest 
luck we know of is to. run the ball up to the live yard line., 
with all the chances of scoring, and then have the half whistle 
blow.
McCurdy gave a brilliant game with his tackling and run­
ning', : while Ziegler, ran Him a close .second in performance. 
DuOanis, on the line, put up an ,excellent defensive exhibition.
Playing their final game with Penn State, Saturday, it looks as
if the Plebes will have but a one victory season.* * * * * * *
AGAIN MR. REGIS WELSH, eminent(?) sporting editor 
of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, blossoms forth with his yearly 
column of dirty digs at our fair institution. Friday morning’s 
paper contained a complete razz on the lack of celebration on 
the part of the Carnegie students' body over the W. and J. 
victory, and the desirability of raising much “whoopee” together 
with historic wholesale fist fights and taking over the town. 
Undoubtedly Mr. Welsh has been reading College Humor and 
seen an excess of Collegiate motion pictures.
IT WAS THE FAMOUS, nationally known Mr. Welsh 
who last year philosophized on the desirability of parents send­
ing their children to Carnegie or Pitt, for an education, on the 
strength of. the athletic record of the respective institutions. It 
seems as if Mr. Welsh is fully determined to make a ridiculous 
•ass of himself.* *
ON THE;BE-N-CH, we saw Purl Anderson, last year's -cap­
tain. A year ago lie-lead the Plaid, then the under-dog. against 
the undefeated'Panther eleven for a 7-33 final tally.¦ : * V. * : * * * *
IT WAS' A' WlvT-Saturday, both externally and internally. 
Probably some in their excitement forgot all about the Eigh­
teenth amendment; but then it -.was- damp, and pneumonia must 
be kept away at all costs—even if it was five a. pint.* *•. • * * * *' *.
THE PITTITES ARE WISE, they take their parade before 
the game so as to be sure of at least one chance to show off. 
We may look on with envy as we hurry to class, but still there 
is much more satisfaction in giving the city the once over 
AFTER .WE WIN THE GAME.. * * * * * * *
\ THE •CHEER LEADERS were out in .full force, somer­
saults, cartwheels, n* everything. They seem to' think'that 
quantity is of more importance than quality. We would suggest 
that a cheer for Moorehead Ayoiild have been appropriate. Paper 
wils hid out for a paper act but was not used???
I The cheering section came through fine, however; their per­
formance was-the best we have seen to date. However, \v.e; 
wo| :16;r if it is an impossibility for them to' stand up and sing 
the Alma Mater above a whisper or at least loud enquglv to „be 
lie; ;d across the field.
Pitt displayed poor sportsmanship on several occasions. 
Booing the uhunifornied band members and drowning-Out our 
cheers is 'nothing to be proud of.- * * ***** . •; .
’¦> THE MANY DEFEATED Navy team upset the dope by 
defeating Pehn G-0. When the middies surged on the field to re­
move goal posts, markers, and other trifles, the Penn band 
played The Star Spangled Banner so the Middies .had to stand
WOMAN’S ATHLETICS
TECH CONQUERS OLD
RIVAL IN MIGHTY BATTLE
(Continued from Page 1)
JOHN KARCIS, FULLBACK.
Plebes Lose to Pitt Frosh 
in Fluke Fray at the Lair
Varsity and Frosh Harriers 
Win from Panther’s Runners
Unable to cope with the breaks 
In Saturday’s game, the Plebes 
went down to defeat at the hands 
of the Pitt Frosh 13-0 in a hectic 
preliminary to the Varsity clash. 
Neither team showed any excep­
tional brilliance, as both touch­
downs were made on ilukes. All 
in all, it was rather an uninterest­
ing encounter,’ and merely took up 
the allotted: time. ¦
- • Carnegic!s- one chance to • score 
was at the end- of the first half 
when ^Matia caught a long pass and ¿was down within two yards of tlie-.goal line., Time was callcd, however, and this,-was the only time Carnegie was really danger- ous_-rtou t,h c;,,.Cubs.Pitt’s break came in the second period . when Potts recovered a pass (hat bounced off Ewing’s 
back and ran 50 yards for a touch­down, McDowell kicking for the extra point. But it’s breaks like these that make football games in­teresting and keep spectators; and players : on their toes ¿very min­ute. ’
After the first few minutes of play in the third quarter, Pitt punted to/Tech, McCurdy -fumbling on the 15 yard line. Quatsc re­covered, the fumble and a succes­sion’ of line bucks and off tackle plays soon pushed the ball over for a second touchdown, Murphy scoring. ^ .McDowell’s try for lliQ extra point was unsuccessful.The outstanding individual efforts were- McCurdy arid Ziegler in the backfield, with DuCanis playing a brilliant defensive game. Murphy of the Panther Cubs was the big­gest threat.• The .Plebes play their final game against .Penn State Frosh nextSaturday at Forbes Field, thegame being called at 2:30 p. m.The lineup follows:Carnegie Plebes—0 Pitt Frosh—13Armentrout __L.;E.________ Pott:Fletcher ____L.T.______ McMurdoWidmer ——L.G._____; YentchDuCanis---------C---------- R. MorrisLozocki -------R.G._____ H. MooreStauffer ------R.T.__________________________________________QuatseMatia ---------R.E_-—-------- CollinsMcCurdy -----Q._------------McDow'cllZiegler --------L.H------------ MurphyEwing --------R.H-------- DaughertyPouncey *.------_F----------------- ClarkTouchdowns—Potts, Murphy, v Substitutions—Carnegie: . Archer for Ewing, Shehels for Kozicki.Pitt: Conroy for Murphy;- Kelly for Conroy, Kelly for Daugherty.Officials—Referee: W. H. FriC' zell; umpire, Carl Rebelc; lines­man, W. B. Stcrrctt.
W. A. A. PLANS HIKE
At the-last meeting of the W.! 
A. A. Board plans were made for 
a hike, which will take place Sat­
urday, November 3. The Board is 
trying to obtain the use of a farm house within reasonable distance from town to which the hikers may go. If the place in question is found suitable, a formal notice | of a hike will be posted. The -hike is to be a w’cek-end affair if there are not too many girls planning to stay over night. Athletic points are given for each hike attended.A special committee has been appointed by President Dorothy Roy to revise the W. A. A. Con­stitution. The new constitution will be printed in pamphlet form along with the new Women’s Ath­letic point system.The Juniors and Seniors who are interested in. hockey are invited to join . the • smaller Freshmen or 
Sophomore gym classes. Hockey his not been included among the women’s sports because of the lack of players, but the Board is very willing to establish it among the other W. A. A. sports and to elect a manager if the students show sufficient interest.
The sign of the Scotch was put 
upon the Panther in more than j 
one place last Saturday. But the Panther growled- and fought hard before lie was branded. A close I score of 27-28 gave the Tech cross- ! country men the decision over 
Pitt’s harriers here Saturday morn-: ing in a meet that continued the j list of exciting contests between the ancient rivals. This is the third successive year in which the j annual hill climbing contest be­tween the two schools has resulted in a 27-2.8 score. Two of the three 
decisions have gone to the Hal- fcrty-coached Plaid runners.
Although Tech won the meet 
the-first two men to mark up the finish line were Pitt men,' Lacsar 
and Alberts; with Alberts follow-’, ing Caesar. The next man to come' down the hill was wearing a grey Tech jersey. The onlookers ex­
pected to find Salkin or Captain Campbell inside the jersey, bji.t wene pleasantly surprised to see- Worley, a sophomore runner, come 
sailing in with his. two, star team­mates cloSe. behind him; i A- gold jersey,, two grey, and two more, gold followed to complete the scor­
ing positions, with the jerseys be­longing to the following men: Jcrpe, Anderson, Gedcon, Grossct 
and Davis.
Caesar, from the other side of Forbes street, ran- the six miles aii though lie were chasing the ghost of Brutus. His time of 29:41 
is the fastest recorded over the Schenley’ Park course this season: His running mate, Alberts, didn’t waste any lime either, coming in 25* minutes and 58 seconds after starting out. Worley’s fine time was 30:13.
Gedcon and Salkin of Tech led the march up flagstaff hill at the beginning of the race, but Caesar 
and Anderson soon decided to find: out how things looked up front;- As the leaders passed under Pan? ther Hollow bridge, Caesiir was' first, Salkin second, Alberts third,; Campbell fourth and Worley fifth.T There were hardly 30 yards be­tween Caesar and Worley.
By the time the group had gonej around the lake to pass under the; bridge again, the positions had; changed to Caesar, Alberts, Camp-; bell, Salkin and Worley, in that order, with Worley gaining stead-4 ily. At that point in the race,; about half-way, any one of the five- 
seemed to have a chance of win-: ning. The two . Pitt men stayed^ up front, however, and the only' 
change at the finish was Worley!
BOWLING SEASON OPENS
The Women’s Bowling season started on 'Tuesday, October 23. So far, a large number of students have shown an .interest in the sport, but contrary to, the usual condition, the Freshmen show the smallest • percentage in attendance. 
The Junior girls are evidently cx- ¦pecting to live up’ to their last year’s record, if their attendance at the first two practices may be taken as any indication.There remain now, just four more weeks of practice before the final tournament. It is not too late to start, for there is still time to make .s team. The teams arc com­posed of the best players from all the classes. It is urged that the Arts Students try to make up a team. Their attendance -has been very meager at practices. W. A. A. points for attending a majority of the practices or making a team may be made.The final tournament promises to produce some keen competition be­tween the classes, for each class has a fair representation of high- scoring bowlers, although the total representation for each class is by no means balanced. The highest score, ,as yet, will be kept a se­cret, in order not to. discourage those who have never bowled be­fore, but it may' be disclosed that a score in the thirties is riot un- bonimon..Practices are held every Tuesday and Wednesday afternoon from 2:30 to 6:30, at the Knights of 
Columbus Bowling Alleys . on- Fifth avenue.
of the beginners. Lieutenant Co- thian, of the Military Department, will be the instructor of the class. All girls of either Margaret Mor­rison or Arts School are eligible to come out for the team. It is not necessary to have former experi­ence in order to engage in the. sport. Notices will be posted on the bulletin boards prior to the season,- which will give full infor­mation concerning hours of in­struction and days on which - the range will be open for practice.Riile is the .only intercollegiate sport .for women at Carnegie and in the three years since rifle lias been established here as an official sport, it has been very favorably received, and has produced an ex­cellent record. In . the National N. R. A. matches, the Women’s Team placed fourth the first year and third the .second year that a team was entered. In the regular scheduled matches each year has seen the team with a considerable margin of victories.Isobel Sheppard, manager of the team, lias sent challenges- to the following teams: June 12, Ohio Wesleyan and Gettysburg; Febru­ary 9, University of Nevada and Oklahoma A. & M.; February 16; University of Delaware, Drexel, University of Cincinnati; Februar3r 23, U., of Wyoming, Michigan State College, Dcpauw U., of Missouri; March 2, U. of S. Dakota, Ohio State, U. of Penna.; March 9,. U. of Idaho, U. of Maryland; March 16, West Virginia, U. of Michigan; March 23, Penn State, University of Louisville; March 30, Cornell, 
U. of Kansas.
at attention while the Penn students "got organized to protect' 
their field. That’s pulling a fast one on Uncle Sam.; *• • * * * .-.. *• * ¦:
BRANDING THE PANTHER was a Tartan pastime on 
Saturday, with both the Varsity and Plebe harriers chalking up 
wins over the Pitt cross country squads. Curious enough, ir 
both meets, it was a Panther who loped in first; Carnegie’s su­
premacy came in taking over the seconds and thirds.
CAESAR, PITT GREYHOUND, tore off the six miles in
29:41, establishing this season’s record for the Schenley course^
WORLEY, Plaid first, came in less than a minute later, with a 
30:13 time, followed closely by Salkin and Captain Campbell.* * * * * * *
REIC1IORD AND PRICE, Carnegie yearlings, placed sec­
ond and third in the three mile jaunt; they made their best time 
of the season. LORD, a new; untried runner, came in .fourth, 
blit was disqualified since he was not officially entered;
This Saturday the Plebe hill-and-dalers loaf, while the var­
sity journey':to -New Wilmington to face -the Westminster' squad. 
All indications point towards a continuance of their no-defeat 
record.
* - * * * * * *
THIS WEATHER does not bring thoughts of tennis, but 
it seems the completion of the tournament is now an assured 
fact. With the semi-finals over it has sifted down to a two way 
fight between Berghanc and Hardie. Captain Carpenter was 
taken over by Berghane and McCloskey forced Hardie to five 
sets in the semi-finals. Should friend weather frown on the 
Carnegie courts the match will be fought out on a privately 
owned asphalt court.
RIFLE NEWS
The riile season for the women’s team will open some lime near the middle of November. The sea­son is being started at a later date than usual this year due to some alterations which arc being made on the riile range.The first two weeks of Novem bc'r will be devoted to instruction
COUNCIL ORDERS ELECTION
(Continued from Page 1)
igibilities of men in Science, Arts and Industries Schools. The Senate presidents were instructed to con­duct .the re-elections for these of­fices.It was suggested that a. letter be sent to the Pitt Student Council renewing the agreement concern­ing damage on cither campus by students. An agreement was made last year whereby any damage done on the opposing campus w'ould be taken care of by the Student Coun cil of the school responsible.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
TO OPEN OCTOBER 31
(Continued from Page 1)
Golgotha. Christ does not' appear in the Play. The author voices his conviction on this matter in his prcfacc to the play. lie says “You can not show Divinity on the stage; you cannot: get an actor to im­personate Divinity. You may show humanity in juxtaposition to Divin­ity, acted upon by Divinity and responding in one way or another 
to the contact—but Divinity itself, No! The thing is impossible.”Stuart P. Sherman, one of the leading dramatic critics in America, speaking of “The Dark Hours,” says “I believe this to be a great tragedy, greatly concerned arid written with austere sincerity. When it is adequately produced as 
I hope it may be, it should affect us as the tragedies of Aeschylus and Sophocles affected the Greeks.”
Th<i first quiirter showed the of­
fensive power of the Panther’s big 
guns, .Uansa arid Williams'. Uansa, 
especially showed that without him 
the Blue and Gold's offensive power 
would be materially reduced. Time 
after time he broke away and was 
not downed until several white lines 
had been crossed, Moorehead, for 
Carnegie, was performing in much 
the sanic mariner until lie was ear­
ned, unconscious, from the field. 
Eyth resumed where Moorhead left off and when lie too, was removed shortly before the end ;of the half ,on account of a bump on his in­jured shoulder. Flannagan, another of Carnegie’s sterling half backs, then carried the brunt of the Plaid’s offense. -It. was in the third‘ quarter that the Tartans showed the stuff o£ which they are made. Pitt had re­ceived one of Harpstcr’s punts on the Carnegie 45-yard line. A deter­mined drive brought the ball t(? the Plaid’s 11-yard line. On the next play the ball was fumbled but re­covered from a 6-yard loss. Another yard was gained and left the oval on the 16-yard line, fourth down and 15 yards to go for a first down. The final spurt was a forward pass but it was knocked down and the ball changed hands. Karcis fumbled for Carnegie on the 25-yard line and Pitt recovered. Once more the Panthers started for the goal and once more the Plaid, aided by a 10- vard penalty, repulsed the attack. With the ball on the 17-yard mark, Pitt decided that three points would be better than_ none and attempted a placement kick ' for a field'goal. Edward’s kick was low and Carnegie took the ball on the 20-yard line.It was in the fourth quarter that Carnegie opened up. With ihc ball on the 31-yard line, a gain of four yards started the fun. It was Lctzcl- tcr and Karcis who bore the brunt of the offense and who placed the ball on Pitt’s 30-yard mark. A 27- yard pass to Rosennvieg placed the Plaid but three yards from the goal. After two and a half yards had been gained through the line, Harp stcr outthought the Panthers and carried the ball over himself for a touchdown. Letzelter failed at the try for the extra point. After this score the ball see-sawed back and .forth until the game ended with a wild outburst of cheering from the Carnegie rooters.
It is no easy task to pick out the individual stars. ^ Uansa and Wil-
liams were brilliant for Pitt, and 
kept the Blue and Gold's ciicering 
scction^in a frenzy of delight. Car­
negie’s team, however, showed no 
such great stars for the reason that 
the play ot every man was excel­
lent. The backs were in rare form 
and it is \common knowledge that 
every player on the line “got’' his 
man, especially when Pitt was with­
in the shadow of the goal posts.It’s all over now until next year, Pitt is disposed of but three more teams loom over the horizon, teams that not only have reputations but proven ability. This Saturday there will be no game, but the following weeks the boys will journey tip to Albany, N. Y„ to tussle with George­town, from Washington. After that comes Notre Dame Mid then a gala celebration, let us hope. The Irish have been beaten, but that is no sign that Carnegie will have a picnic on November 17. These South Benders are waiting for the Tartans andwhen two teams want to win as badly as uo these two, the fur is bound to fly. At any rate, three weeks hence everyone will know whether to celebrate or go to schooL In the meantime, “On to Albany.”Summary:: Carnegie—6 Pitt—0Roscnzwicg —L. E--------DoncliessSchnuppc--------L.T----------------TullyLovewell -----L. G----------(C.) FoxMielzingcr______C,__ MontgomeryDieshar____R. G________DimeoloHighbcrger _R. T-------------------GettoSweet ..-.....—R. E________ Guaritic.Harpster (C.) ..Q------------------BakerUansa
Score by quarters:Carnegie ______—0 0 0 6—6Touchdowns: Carnegie—Harpster.Missed try for point—Letzcltcr.Substitutions: Pitt—Walinchus for Baker, Hood for Walinchus. Car­negie—Shaughcncy for Sweet, Eyth for Shaughcncy, Schmidt for Eyth, Yerina for Iiighberger, Sweet 
for Chaughcncy, Schmidt for Schnupp.Officials—Referee, J. H. Moffatt (Princeton;) umpire, J. L. Buckholt (Holy Cross); head linesman, G. N. Bankard (Dartmouth); field judge, C. 1^. S. Raby (Gettysburg). Time 
of periods, 15 minutes.
ahead of his two mates.
This victory keeps . Coach Hal- ferty’s slate clcan for' the season, with two; meets-won so far.’Thiel 
'was defeated on October 13. "Next Saturday the Skibos journey to New Wilmington, Pa., where they will attempt to keep the West­minster harriers from throwing dirt on their unsullied slate. Indica­
tions are that the Plaid will do all the dirt throwing thcmsplycs. .
Plebes Win •
The Plaid Plebes opened their cross-country season with 'a 29-26 win over tlic University of Pitts­burgh frosh in a preliminary '.tc? 
the varsity meet between the two schools. The frosh meet was . 'as 
close and hard-fought as the var­sity meet,, which was won by Tecli with a score of 27-28.
The places taken by Pitt’s plcbc^ were Mazzie, first;- Monheim, fourth, Ronig, seventh; Van No- strand, eighth, and Kostin, ninth. ;
Carnegie’s scorers .were Reichard; second; Price, third; Mecnan, fifth; Carr, sixth, and Abbott,’ tenth.
Mazzie, star of Coach Shea’s Pitt team, wanted to leave no doubt as to whos was the best of the field. At the very beginning 
he took the lead and held it throughout the three-mile trip. His time for the jaurit was 15:38, with Reichard and Price of Tech fol­lowing at 15:56 and 16:08 respect­ively. These last two times were the best of the season for the two Tech leaders. r .Lord, a new frosh runner, pre-; 
sented the surprise of the meet when he placed fourth, but was disqualified because‘lie was not Of­ficially entered. Coach Iialferty was running him in the race mere­ly to try him out. His . showing will naturally cause him to be a regular entrant fron} now on.Besides Lord, the Plaid fresh­man squad lias- been enlarged by the addition of Abbot, who placed tenth, Sanders and Krebs. These 
new entrants bid fair to make numerals even . though . they have 
started late. Coach Iialferty- still has more new uriiforms for any other frosh Svho wants experience for varsity competition next year.The frosh have no meet next week, but will be kept in shape by . regular practice every day. 
Coach Iialferty' has instructed the plebes to work on the varsity six- mile course exclusively, from now on. An attempt is being made to schedule a frosh meet_for Novem­
ber 10. which date has been left open by the cancellation of the St. Vincent’s meet.
Student Take Notice
Special Rates For You At
TECH TAILORS
Cleaning, Pressing and Tailoring 
"GOME IN AND SEE STEIN" 
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig St.
WE CALL. AND DELIVER
CRABG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
THE PARAMODE COMPANY
OF ST. LOUIS, MO.
Announces a New Fall Line of
COLLEGE SHIRTS
— SEE —
HOWARD HARPSTER, 624 Clyde St.
Carnegie Representative by Special Appointment
Mr.McMurray 
Waxes Poetic 
over Tobacco
Carrollton, Texas May 15, 192SLams & Bro. Co.,Richmond,-Va. -Gentlemen:
Having been a user of Edgeworth for over eight years, I can truthfully say that it is the best on earth. I am enclosing a little- ditty that I believe expresses my sentiments entirely:
Old Man Joy and Old Man Trouble Went out for a walk one day..I happened to pass when they met on the street And I overheard them say,Said Old Man Trouble, “She's as wrong as she can be, There ain’t no fun in anything to me, whyI was just talking’'to Old^ Man Sorrow,And he says the world will end tomorrow."Then Old Man Joy he started to 'grin,And I saw him bring out that OLD BLUE TIN, Then OLD JOHNNY BRIAR was next on the scene, And he packed him full from the _ OLD BLUE TIN, And X heard him say as he walked away,“ You have to have a smoke screen every day.When a man gets the blues, and he needs a friend, He can find consolation in the OLD BLUE TIN, And I jist don’t believe on all this earthThere’s a thing that’ll match good old EDGEWORTH.’* 
Yours very truly,F. H. McMurrayEdgeworth
° Extra High Grade (
Smoking Tobacco
College Folk...
Now if every student: looked like ,([£; 
this 'we’d have a« easy enough
pleas mg you. We’ve a ¦wonderful Book Shop,
and * that would be that. But we happen to 
know that most of you spend as much time doing 
this sort of thing ^ as this sort of thing 
and we’re certain that Saturday
afternoons $|j/ find some thousands of 
' you on your way to the 
wearing or wishing for a
We find out about how many f of you will be
\\J [OUl for the Junior 
might even be able to 
of you will change this
wanting new 
Prom, and we 
guess how many 
year from an old-fashioned to a new trench
coat like this But / anyhow, we have
enough sense Vijw to f' realize that guess-
ing is about ¿j__|1] all we can do about you.
You’re such awfully individual yoUng people, and 
your whims are at once so evanescent and so 
decided—it’s almost impossible to anticipate you. 
And yet, we do enjoy trying, and every time we 
succeed, we feel like doing a little joy dance behind 
the counter. It is a very serious business with us 
—this pleasing you. And we want you to know 
that if, at any time, you are unable to find what 
you want in our store, we will be more than glad 
to try to get it for you. That is a promise. You 
may hold us to it.
hi.yaR Horne Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1923;
PHONK MAYFLOWER 2600 
Published once every week darlnz the 
collctto y«»*1 by undergraduates of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. Entered In the 
Pittsburgh Pont Office no «econd-clasB matter.
THINK IT OVER
THE STAFF 
Editor-in-Chicf—Stewart C. RalstonPlaid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldBusiness Manager—James H. Seibert'
Managing Editor.— News Editor™„William McNeill___Ruth Bramson
Women's Editor-----------Dorothy RoyAthletic Editor— Thomas W. Lippert Alumni Editor.------Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Helen Reed Eugene JaremaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whitchill Kathryn O’Donnell
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
Nathan Miller Joe B. I-’attersonS?.ra E. Wonders Alex M. Fisher
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland }'acob Carpe Henry L. Bunker, Jr.Catherine Boyd
J. J. Boyle M. Eckels N. Kline G. M. Wilson L. I. Shusset W..L. Myers D. H. Barr W. W Hay W. J. Eason
REPORTERS
H. N. MeixncrD. K. Tomer f . M. BaughE. Schlesinger J. H. McAteer C. F. Ac.ienheil A. F. Phillips E. .T. Dattisman G. H. MerrinLevin
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr------Robert H. WehrleAssistant:___________David H. GenterWillis M. Crosby John Wright 
.Michael Malinich 
Carl Blass _S. A. Buttonari A. Frank V. P. Jones H. M. Rosenberg 
E. G. Miller D. W". Seville
Circulation Mgrs— 
Circulation Assts.~
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Of­
fice Hours—Monday to Thursday»,
3 :'i0. Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To insure publication on the succeeding 
Tuesday, news items munt be in the student 
post office or Tartan Office before 4:30 
Thu red
After office hours, call—
¿____________1________Oalcmont 5G7-W
....Mayflower 8321
Plaid Editor-....................................iUl.ntlc IMO...Schcnley J389
Exiltor...
Bud»« »»í»'———SîîAdvertising Manager.---------------behenley 308-
FOOTBALL GAME SEATS
Again, as ahvayi the students of Pittsburgh are forced to watch the games of their college teams from seats not the _ most advan­tageously situated with considera­tion for inter-school demonstrations and the general viewing of the contests. With a stadium avail­able in which there has always been a surplus of seats, there seems to be no adequate reason •why both Pitt and Carnegie stu­dents should not enjoy the privi­leges held /by the undergraduates of other large institutions. Who is more vitally interested in a game than the .classmen of the schools whose teams are on the field? Why should they not have positions on the filly-yard line, and on oppo­site sides of the stadium—the ideal location for demonstrations between the halves and for competition be­tween the schools’ bands?It: is recognized that a much ' greater, revenue is realized from .uid-field scats, and that it takes „.lo.ney to conduct a football season, but. with a bowl of the seating ca­pacity of The Stadium there should certainly be little difficulty in ad­justing a rate to spit the needs of the students, and without ham­pering the returns from other ticket sales. In the years to come, when Carnegie takes over its position as a constant occupant of The Stadi­um for all home games, one block of scats On the fifty yard line, ex­tending from the inner, to the outer rim, and adequate to seat the stu­dent body, should be maintained as the Carnegie Tech section. With such an arrangement, it would then be possible for our cheerleaders to .properly organize in advance such spectacular paper demonstrations as have long been hoped for, but have proved impractical without sufficient preparation.
CHAPEL
Today the second bi-monthly chapel sendee is being held in the Little Theater of the College of Fine Arts at 11:30, with a promi­nent Pittsburgh minister delivering a short address. The first chapel sendee held two weeks ago was very well attended and the Y. M. and' Y. W. C. A. organizations, who sponsor these meetings, are hopeful that the attendance will remain at a high figure. Why. not attend chapel more regularly?These religious services are .en­tirely non-rsectarian, and offer an appropriate period for thought, and meditation in the midst of a crowded and busy college life. Such details of life are too frequently neglected while students are away from familiar home groups, and there are many Carnegie under­graduates who have never attended a chapel service. Such persons are nost cordially invited to relinquish for a brief half hour their minor ares and worries, and take part the refreshing atmosphere of the pel period.Y.
OFFICIAL NOTICES
The Carnegie campus has recent­ly seen the results of tampering with official Student Council busi­ness. Not content with creating a doubt in the minds of many mem­bers of the student body conccrn- in;-v a school holiday a week ago, person or persons . took itupon themscdvcs highly involved b flense againstlaws of the
to become very in a criminal t h e FederalUnited States.The penalty for forgery in this country is an extended, period of internment in the nearest govern­ment penitentiary! The seriousness of such an act is not to be ignored, iither from the standpoint of legal­ly or good citizenship. Any stu- jent who - purposely opposes in -.-'i a manner the action of a bod}’
"Lcmel Gulliyer, who was as careful as an observer as he was rash as an. explorer, was astonish­ed to find a kingdom divided on the question whether an egg should be broken at the broad end or the' narrow end; lie would have been quite as astonished doubtless to find among' ourselves' an equally heated argument as to relative merits of a broad human head and 
a narrow one.”
“In both- cases, however, it would be necessary to burrow a little deeper and to regard the points at issue as mere symbols of some deeper grounds for dissension. If, for example, the question of which end of an egg should be broken had been a mere matter of per­sonal psychology, a difference of individual taste, and no more; then there would not have been enough social, friction to generate the inr ordinate heat of which . Gulliver tells us. But as this heat certainly was generated, we are led to con­clude that something else lay be­hind; that egg breaking in a spe­cial manner had become the stand­ard or symbol of a special class in society; that those with an income of more than five thousand dollars brcjke the thick end and those with a smaller income the thin; or that those. who could appreciate Stravinski and the American Mer­cury did one thing, while those who only' read the less intelligent press, the other; or that college graduates, or oil kings, or people on the B’s visiting list or what not, regarded the alternative to their own methods as the mark of the beast."
“Then every one would desire to prove his method of egg break­ing the true mark of aristocracy and, by remembering the rule, par­venus would hope to become wor­thy, for example, of kissing the 
hand of a grand duchess.”
“In precisely the same way peo­ple will desire to prove that their head shape, or eye colour, or ac^ cent, or table manners arc superior to those of other people, and as this is a quasi-scientific generation they will ask p backing of science to prove that they are the chosen people, just as their forefathers in a quasi-religious age went on the same quest to the Bible.”
“There are three social preju­dices, which exercise constant pres­sure on the average man’s thought; colouring it, and making it irra­tional: they are, first, ‘my coun­try, race, or nationality are better than the other man’s;’ setond, ‘my class, social caste, or social habits are better thah the other man’s;’ and, third, ‘my moral code, relig­ious outlook, guidebook to heaven, are better than the other man’s.” “In the old days, for example, if an Englishman found that he Had nothing in common and no sympathy with a Brahmin, lie said he had no use for niggers and left it at that; and most people forgave him' his very human failing of race
prejudice. But, nowadays, thanks to the .great advances of popular science, he is ashamed-to leave his prejudice naked for all to see and seeks to cover it with a sort of scientific synthetic figleaf compos­ed of words like dolichocephalic, brachycephalic,. Nordic, miscegena­tion and the like. Thus to the heftnely and. pardonable vicc of race prejudice is added the far more dangerous and corroding vicc of intellectual snobbishness.”“First, a race type exists mainly in our own minds;” true, a Negro has a dark skin and woolly hair, but. many southern Europeans have darker skins than some Negroes. Let us admit, however, the aver-j age difference in . certain physical j characters; what is important is that our picture of mental differ-1 enc.es -is purely subjective. Clearly, I most Negroes are socially lower than most whiles; we .say .that it is because it is in their germplasitt that they should be lower, but that is false. The true cycle of events is this: Negroes are unlike us in many ways, physically and in their ways of doing things, their tradi­tions in fact; people with different traditions from our own are felt to be inferior; we treat them as inferior and as a result they do become inferior. Life is a hurdle race wherein most of the hurdles are social prejudices, I for Negroes we raise the hurdles a foot and yet are surprised that more of them trip- up.”“There is no doubt, to take an­other example, that many Ameri­can Indian communities were, be­fore the coming of the white races, noble, aesthetic and religious, often beyond our own standard; we give them drink, diseases and an alien code of beliefs and morals; we take from them occupation, land, legend and tradition; then we look 'at the few which we have kept and do­mesticated for use as movie extras and complacently think of our own superiority.”“In short, all the inferiorities or superiorities which some people at­tribute to race are really attribu­table to good .and bad education, in the widest meaning of the word —that it, .all the influence to which the individual has been subjected from birth upward.”“It is environment, education, social milieu that counts, and not race, and America’s problem is to mitigate the shock and dislocation when an alien finds himself up­rooted and transplanted. That some of the seedlings are not the best that could be obtained, is true, but this is not because of racial inferiority; it is because the type 
of immigrant, who. has been most in demand in the' past is often of doubtful quality. If America had set out'to attract Dantes and Bene­detto Croces she would have had no alien problem at all, but the •fact is, she set out to attract cheap labor and as a result she has got Chicago.”—New Age of Faith.J. Langdon Davies.
- ÍÉrfU. SIEN'
. Campus Week j
'What a medley of sounds thoàe two - words recall—gay laughter, peppy music, hilarious voices. What a meaning those two words have for an undergraduate; what pleas­ant memories rush to the mind of a loyal alumnus when' those words arc Uttered! Even to a casual passerby, “Campus Week” has a certain significance. Yet the Ex­ecutive Council has ruled that there shall be no more Campus Weeks!This ruling is no more whim of the Council—really believes that such.is the right thing to do. But they have not been informed of the students’ viewpoint. So the students voice their opinions as- a group and as individuals: and by constant and . sincere urging . they hope to succeed in putting across Carnegie Tech’s, usual successful Campus Week.
To abolish Campus Week would undoubtedly, cast an anchor in Car­negie Tech’s wheel of progress. Why? A very simple reason will suffice: a student’s happiness de­pends upon anticipation. Why strive for anything if there is nothing to 
look forward to? To be specific— is a year of constant study inter-' spersed With a few minor social events something to look forward to? It is not. A .college student is too. energetic for such staid rou­tine. A course like that would cause _ him to become restless and dissatisfied. He would accomplish much more, by a three-day release frçm classés, when he gives vent to natural enthusiasm, than he would by attending classes all dur­ing the spring months .with a mind made listless by monotpny and in­activity. Why does a student at­tack his books with increased vigor as the- May breezes make their debut? Anticipation is' the answer —Campus Week is just ahead.
Above all, does the Executive Council realize that they ,are eras­ing one of the most beautiful things that mark a college-tradition? Car­negie Tech must retain its fore­most tradition—Campus Week. Our tradition, our distinction, our an­ticipation—Campus Week. Wc shall have Campus Week!
T. C. P.
chosen .by the group of which he is_ a member, to carry on the af­fairs and regulate the activities of that group, is a menace to his fel.lowstudents, and by such an act has placcd himself in opposi­tion to the governing body.> The notices placed on the bulle­tin boards a week ago, declaring a holiday after the W. and j. game, and bearin’g- the name of** the Dean of Men, were of the most crude type_ of reproduction, and it is a compliment to the good judg­ment of the student body that they were ignored. When the action of the Student Council concerning such 'matters has not previously been made public, the cheerleaders have the authority to make such announcements and their statements may be followed.
YALE HOLDS CONFERENCE(Continued from Page 1)
to the utmost its opportunity to make college students “air minded” jand! to stimulate general campus interest in the advancement of col­legiate aeronautics.
This Intercollegiate organization will automatically become a branch 
of the National Aeronautic Associa­tion and will have, as an adviser a 11011-university man appointed by the A. A. to devote his complete time and efforts to the activities of the Intercollegiate body. 1The-. institutions represented at the Conference were Yale, ’Carnegie, Harvard, Brown, . Northwestern University, Illinois, University of 
Pennsylvania, University of Detroit, New York University, Cornell, 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech-’ nology, University of .Southern California, and, by proxy, Oxford, England.
A LADY BOARDER
.“•Oh, I'll not. be the. least trou­ble,’’.said the fady boarder,.-who had wheedled the mistress of a 
select boarding house into taking her for six months, although the mistress had said that she never, never would take another woman to board.“I don’t blame you for not want­ing to board women,” said the lady boarder, while, laying off her wrap in her room, “most of them are a# troublesome and- finicky, but .1 think you’ll find I’m not one of that sort. I just take things as I find them and make no fuss at all. Now I’ll just wash my hands, and—O, could you get me a little 
white Castille soap instead of this cocoanut-oil kind?”‘‘I’ll see,” said the landlady. 
“And'about the towels—I never use crash quite so rough as this, and I’d like' a Turkish towel on the rack all the time.”“Well.”
“Thank you, I’m determined not to be ir6ubles.ohie after I once get settled, and I—don’t you think .this dressing-case would look better on this side of the room?”
“1 don’t know.”“Seems- to me it- would. Sup- ppsing you call a servant up and 
let us see how it will look moved: and while she’s here I believe I’ll change the bed to the other cor­
ner—that. is, if you’ve . no .objec­tions.”
“O,. none at all.”“Thank you. 1 don’t really care much, but then—O, would it be too much trouble to have a cup of hot water sent up to my room an hour before each meal? I think it does me good."
“I suppose I can arrange that,” says- the landlady, gloomily;“Thanks; you are kind. Now, I guess I’ll—-O. I wonder if there is any hot water in the bath room? I’d like to run in and just wash out a few little things' that I never send to the laundry. I’ll not be a bit' of trouble.”
“The cook may: object.” says the landlady blandly. “-I don’t mind myself.”
WHO CHEERS CARNEGIE ] 
AT FOOTBALL GAMES?,Book Review
“C-a-r-n-e-gie! C-a-r-n-c-gie!” The battle cry sounds over the bloody field of football as our lusty war­riors “fight for the glory of Car­negie.” “Yea, Carnegie,” we yell. “We, We, -who are We?”
“Wc“ are engineers, or, to be more precise, -would-be engineers. We pull a few of our noses from our books long enough to tell the world, or, rather, the sporting fans, that we have a football team. The rest of us, w'ho stick to the grind —and we arc legion—haven't time to cheer for a husky eleven. Why should we? Aren’t we busy? Haven’t we too much to do al-' ready, with assignments piled up, with books to try and get at the Hut, with laboratory hours to loaf through or slave through?; ' We' must-get ready to “do the World’s work.” _ We have to give up, with too-willing sacrifice, our dates, our recrcation, our pleasures, so that we may do'our Math, our Physics, our technical reports. Indeed1' yesi we are a. serious .lot, are we.
¦ We arc Architects, wrc are Mu­sicians, we are Dramats. We -loll through German, Italian, History of Art, that we may wander through Art School looking artistici We swagger through the dim halls of our nice building with the thinlyrveiled satisfaction of being “different” expressing itself through our intellectual talk, our disdain of everything not first-rate, our dis­approval of ordinary things, such as families. We smoke cigarettes with evident relish; the women of us delight in filling the Round Table room with the smoke of the suppo'sedly-taboo fag. We slave for hours in almost complete self- forgetfulness on the back-stage directions of a play, at the really delightful violin or organ, on in­spiring, if strenuous, Charettes.We are Maggie Murphs, delib­erately placing ourselves in a wom­en's school because we ' honestly Want to learn. Wc. struggle with Physics and Chemistry, we' wade or slip through Biology, we lose ourselves in Bacteriology, Dress­making, Case .Work. Wc have •time to be the girls whom “Pitt men like- to take out.” We or-; ganizc clubs of Chemists, of Sec- retarials,. of Social Workers, and we have'parties and rallies. Why' not? _ We like to dig, -fte are here to dig, but we are women just the same. We might be grinds, but we- won’t be back numbers. You’ll see us jrelling for Carnegie Tech. We’re not cast in a mould —we're individualists!Yes, and we’re _ all • collegiates. Our Plebe regulations are grand sops to our pride. Our honorary fraternities reward us for our good hard plugging. Our cxtra-cur- ricular activities—a few of us have, ’em—make us think w'c’re imp'or- tant.- We fall for our classifica­tions—we’re Engineers, we’re Mag­gie Murphs,'we’re Dramats. .You’d know us anywhere.
“O, I’ll get around hei;' easily, enough. Trust: me for that. 1 al­ways wash out my handkerchiefs and sriiall pieces wherever I board, and I—O, while I think of- it, I’d like to mention that I never drink' 
anything but/green ’ tea, and if it would not be too much trouble I’d 
like my bread made without. a bit. of salt iii it. Perhaps it's only a notion, but I can’t eat sailed I read”
v.‘‘I hardly know how to manage that,” says the landlady dubiously.“O, it’ll be easy enough. When you bake just make one loaf with­out salt in it. See? • I hope you
won’t take a bit of trouble on my account if I’m sometimes too late for my. meals. Sometimes I may be out shopping or may feel a little lazy in the morning and
won’t get up, but I’ll soon findout where things arc in the pantry and will just help myself without troubling, anyone.”
^ This, struck the landlady so dumb that she could say .nothing, and the- obliging boarder guiltlessly, lattled on.
“I like. hot cakes for breakfast the year round, and somehow, no kind of steak agrees with me but 
sirloin. Would you mind ringing for a .servant and . have _ her. lower 
the w’indow a little from the top 
O, I see the blankets on the bed j the room h arc white. It’s a foolish notion of. | mind.
Lud-In-The-Mist. By Hope Mirr- less. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. 192/. 313 pp.
Let those who bewail the pass- ing of beautiful letters take hope. Here is a book that will suit the taste of the -most fastidious- tapestry woven of rich and luscious words chosen punctiliously for their weight and color. Miss Mirr- less has conceived a gorgeous myth-peopled with beings who in­habit strange places. The reader sits as at a puppet show enacted on a distant stage viewing a fan- tasmagoria through a powerful glass, bringing near the far-away actors.
In this blending of••'‘the poetic and: the bizarc, some reader's will see a similarity to “Jurgen.” But added to the sophistication of Ca­bell will be found the scholarship of the “Golden Bough,” the quaintr ness of' Hawthorne, the- charm of Hans Christian Anderson, and the weirdness of Poe. Couple the whimsicality of Barry -with the horror of “Dracula,” and some conception may be had of the scope of its appeal.
- For - those who love1 words for the nicety and rouudness of their sound, Lud-in-thc-Mist will be a gold mine. The nomenclature which Dickens bestowed upon his characters were not selected with greater discrimination. Imagine the school mistress, Miss Primrose Crabapple, Professor Wisp, the dancing instructor, and Mother Tibbs, the matronly custodian of the Fields of Grammary, where the sturdy dead lads hoist their own coffins on their shoulders and trip it over the daisies. And when the elite of the village, consisting of such notables as Dr. Endymion Leer, Dame Dreamsswcct and Hyacinth. Baldbreeches sit at ban­quet, the dishes sound “like a sc­ries of -tragic sonnets. The first 
course was called the Bitter-Sweet Mystery—a soup of herbs . . . fol­lowed bjr the Lottery of Dreams, which consisted of _such delicacies as quails,' snails, chickens’ livers, plovers’ eggs, peacocks’- hearts . . . Then came True-Love-in-Ashes,. a special way of preparing pigeons; and. last, Death’s -Violets, ^ an ex­tremely indigestible - pudding deco-! rated with sugared violets.” in Flower-in-Amber wdne, the party drinks the health of the King of Moongrass Cheeses. So proceeds the lavish.poetic,iare. -But even in this peaceful place life has. its fill of tragedy. Pru­nella Chanticleer and her playmates have eaten of fairy fruit and have passed beyond the Debatable Hills to that deliciously bad place, the ¦very name of which was held in horror by: the- citljiensv“Then something happened. It was not so much a modification of the darkness, as a sigh of relief, a slight relaxing of tension. so( .that one felt, rather than saw, that’ the night had suddenly lost a shade of its .density . . . ah! yes; there! between these ..two shoulders of the hills she - is bleeding -to death.”
Prunella’s father eoes in search •Of--them and passes a strange night at, the Fair in the Elfin. Marshes where a ghoulish carnival is in progress. The maidens are finally restored “and each gaye a different account of tli^ir adventures. Moon- love . Honeysuckle said they ' had' danced wildly down the waste, places of the sky, and then had been imprisoned in a castle in the moon; Viola Vigil said, they had been chased by angry trees into the Dapple, - where they, had got entangled in the weeds and could not extricate themselves—and so on.”This is not a book for the casual reader, but a "fairy tale for the sophisticated, beautifully done. The house of Knopf has encased the volume in a distinctive format, sug­gestive of its content.
We’re awfully glad to beT with you'again and we hope that you are at least-half so glad to see us. 
It’s really fun to climb up on top of a fence and do nothing but look around. Of course, there’s always the possibility of tearing one’s stockings; but that’s only a minor detail and can easily be discounted. Wc aren’t sure just what fence itthat we’re supposed, to be sitting on, but we hope it’s, the Senior Fence. It would be a distinction 
for a co-ed to be allowed to -use the fence, wouldn’t it?
All the arts “studes” are keeping their, thumbs crossed and hoping awfully hard that the Arts Balt will come. off. Whether it does or docs not really is not of so very much, difference'.to the supposedly less aesthetic' Maggie Murphs and engineers, but it is fun to think that something like that is going 
on, even if one can’t be among those, present. Besides the affiur is a real Tradition/ and - it will be a sliame if it has to be eliminated'.
We certainly hope that by the time this goes to press the work­men will have finished, tinkering with the Margaret Morrison doors. Wc simply can’t remember from hour to hour whether we arc to use the centcr right or left exit. It’s worse than being in a play. Invariably, before a quiz,-we swing through-one of the revolving door* only to discover .that we arc walk­ing under a ladder of -tremendous proportions.- - Such conditions are really, deplorable, - especially to any­one as superstitious^ as Vc.
If TH E * QUARTERLY* isn't or­ganized pretty soon, we’ll begin to 
give up hope. Certainly after the good start. that was made ¦ last semester, the project' shouldn’t be dropped. What’s the matter with everyone? Is it lack of energy or interest, or. both? Surely there are plenty of students who would like to contribute to the magazine, if someone would organize it. Why not get going? If it’s' going to be a QUARTERLY• there really should 
be four ¡¿sues, you know.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
mine, but I really prefer red blankets; and I see you have woven-wire springs.' iould you as. 
well as not exchange them for the spiral springs ? I much prefer them and I,—” but the landlady, bc-i.pg new in the business had gone from dazed condition of
Isn't' the .grill just lot-s .better this year than last? We .really mean it. We’re not trying to drop sarcastic remarks about that most illustrious of all eating emporiums, as other coliiriinists have done in the past. The line seems to move much faster, there are more tables, so that one never has to stand around waiting, and some of the prices have gone down. Also, we think the new sign out front .is 
most enchanting..
In our limited career as a con- ccrt-gocr wc have never seen three more delightfully charming women on one stage than Madame Homer and her two daughters.: -We,couldn’t, of- course, attempt to give here a musical critique, but there arc always other things that one likes to mention. In the first place, the idea of a famous artist performing With her Children is, in itself, unique. The graceful carriage and poise of Madame Homer was lovely to.sec, and quite a relief after hav­ing seen Marion Talley and her jumping-jack exhibition last year, and several other performers of equal awkwardness. All three were dressed in exquisite taste, with a simplicity most unusual on the con­cert. stage. Miss Beegle • was cer­tainly, wise, in her selection of an opening concert. We hope she brings them here soon again.
London.—Science, beginning dim­ly to understand the meaning of life and death, may find itself work­ing for ccnturics before it possesses any considerable knowledge or un­derstanding of the “great twin mys­teries,” Professor Frederick K. Donnan said iii an article in the Evening Standard.“Perhaps no ultimate' solution ever will be attained,” continued Professor Donnan. “No doubt the final answer' to all our restless questioning lies in the pot of gold where the rainbow eiyjs.”Professor Donnan v/as amplifying his recent speech before the Brit­ish . Association • for the Advance­ment of Sciencc at Glasgow. There he had told of . discoveries made by .Professor A. V. Hill of the ori- .gin and sustenance of life.“Sciencc has known for a long time that in. order to carry out its work; the living cell, just like steam engines or motor cars, require fuel and oxygen,” sai'd Donnan.Television by radio, gas bullets that can be fired around corners, practical color cameras, .three kinds of talking -motion pictures, auto­matic repairing machines for silk .stockings—we are dizzy with the 
multitude and variety .of inventions .that- have been announced iii the 
last - few. weeks. The summer of 1928-should ..be remembered-in his­tory:- .as.; a -. continuous spasm of progress:-: .-.The surprising, thing 
about most .of these inventions is the . anonymity .of the inventors. We remember Stephenson and Morse and Bell; our children will 
see their pictures in the: school books for many generations. But what name emerges from Jhe bril-- 
liapt .summer of 1928 as immortal? The average American could not mention a single name as associ­
ated with any of the recent great inventions. Yes, perhaps lie could mention one name, that of~ George- Eastman in connection with the 
color camera. But who invented the color camera?- Not Mr. East­
man or even the able head of his research laboratories,' Dr. C. E. 
Kenneth Mees. The inventor was a man who spent 10 years in the Eastman, laboratories studying color photography. His name is John G. Capstaff. Three cheers for Cap- st.aff! .We would like to see.Cap- slaff cigarets, and pictures of Cap­staff blindfolded selecting Old Gold and- babies- named Capstaff Jones, and -yacht's -christened Lady Cap­
staff by-pretty girls. This- labora­tory -method of invention may be efficient, and we presume that Mr. Eastman gave. Mr. Capstaff a hand- 
s’ome chetk’ for his ¦ genius, but 
the -huihan' .throat ’ w-as made 'to 
c'lfeer '~1ie'ro'e'5.'r~'"And we~- suspect that-even- Mr. Capstaff -would ap­preciate an. ounce of immortality 
more than a tqn_ o.f. pay .checks.
To the intellectually curious, his­
tory'is the ultimate study. What we 
are and how we came to be that 
way, and such impertinent questions 
can be resolved only in the light of 
the past.
To be sure, most of the profes­
sional historians have .proved disap­
pointing to our imaginary student who is eager to rake over the coils of other years and other times, the better to understand his own. Clio- must have been the goddess of liars as wdl as o£ history. Although!,, to 
be sure, the greatest objection is not on the score that many of the offi- dal scribes have strung long tales and windy yarns, but rather that they have set out to rationalize and apologize for the imbecilities and crudties perpetrated by their rulers and paymasters. This fact has been driven home decisively and is known to large numbers of the citizenry to­day ever since Robinson’s “Mind in 
the Making” has been published in a dollar edition and H. G. Wells’ Out­line of Plistory” Las been altered to the public in a variety of deferred payment and subscription plans. .It will not be amiss, however, to reiterate the point. The lords and masters of old, on bitter, cold -and dreary days, or when ennui seized them, called in the official keeper of the archives, who there and then ic- countcd the glories and valiant deeds oi the ruling house. This was all done to the lulling accents of a harp or zither or lyre, the more to an­aesthetize the critical questioning spirit, or what remained of it among the populace of the court. Later, when larger political nations were formed and a variety of folklore and tradition had to be amalgamated into a feeling of common back­ground for the various peoples mak­ing up the ncW union, as in the case of France, it became neccssary to invent huger lies and stouter talcs. History became a record-of the bat­tles (which had been. won), and the piling up of monstrous defamations and slanders upon the other peoples.. On certain grand occasions, it was even possible to call down divine recommendation and approval ror one’s own folk. The national bound­ary separated the clcct from the bar­barian.
What a refreshing breeze is that
! Music Notes
The Boston Symphony Orchestra probably holds first place in the af­fections of the Pittsburgh public, and their coming is always awaited with the keenest interest. This or­chestra with their distinguished leader, Serge Koussevitzky, will open the symphony season in Pittsburgh on Friday night and Saturday after­noon, November 2 and 3, and their program is announced here.Friday NightStravinsky-------—-------------------------------------Apollon Musagete BalletBirth of Apollo. Apollo and. the MusesDebussy   .....*------- —;.:....NovturnesNuagcs. FetesWagner ____________..._.................
.......Prelude to "Die , M'eistersinger”Beethoven ....................................Symphony No. 3 in E-llat Major —“Eroica”
Saturday AfternoonHandel _______________________Concerto Orchestra Wagner
Grossoj for String
Bacchanale (Dcr Vcnusberg) fromTannhauser Ravel ___________  -___:___:—;“La Valse” Choreographic Poem Brahms Symphony No. 2 in D major.
Other orchestras to be heard in •this course of seycn evenings and six afternoons .at- Syria. Mosque arc the Newr York Philharmonic for three pairs, with Mengelberg and Toscan­ini' conducting; the. Chicago Orches­tra, with Frederick Stock; the Cleve­land . Orchestra, with Sokoloff, and the.Minneapolis. Orchestra .with Ver- brugghe'n.’
MEISLE-THOMAS RECITAL
An old favorite and a newcomer opened 'the current, season of the Art Society last Friday • night, in Carnegie Music Hall.Kathryn Meisle, contralto, was the familiar and admired singer, and lt,r Thomas, tenor, recently- trpm Wales, proved an agreeable surprise.Miss Meisle last Friday night showed a greater versatility, and 
comprehension than at .any previous visit. Her voice is the. same, glori­ous. product as it was in other visits; but . her style, seer- to: have, more depth of. emotion, and 'she is less concerned with studio. ..trifles and much more interested in art songs.She scored in aria, recitative and straight, song projection. ; She had . a remarkable style in • registering her .phrases... There as-. only, ouc bad tone, in Tier marvelous range, and that was when she- finished? up the Rossini “Barber ’ of Seville,”., -when she over-readied-:her leger line regis­ter. . _ .. - :v,• In the Haydn “Spirits - Song,” - she was. magnificently comber,The “Droop. Not” wras done • in Hande.han manner, with ample regard for the passing notes and an appealing allar- gando ending. Richard Strauss con­tributed in his “Schlechtes Wetter,” one of his characteristic piano back­grounds. It was a beautiful song-in every respect.Some contraltos have a touch of brass in their top E’s, ’ but Miss Meisle is pure bronze, with a ..glow of ’gold, as to with the Saint Saen’s 
“Samson and Delilah” episode. She gave this aria tristcss and great color. -Mr. Thomas - as a victim of a cold, which caused him to.-open in a husky manner. Jiis upper notes did not come smoothly and his middle register was marred v/itlr a "terrific vibrato. As the evening^ wore on his voice improved, and when he ar­rived at the Welsh folk songs there was some semblance of the voice we were prepared to hear.
Which is wafted to us today by the 
newer delvcrs into the past! How 
eagerly and with what exceeding 
gustoj does the newer historian pull 
down the carefully erected edifico 
and tissue of fabrications erected 
about the personalities of the groat 
and the near-great! At the present 
moment, there can be espied ah army 
of research workers combing through 
the dusty stacks of the great librar­
ies, with fountain pens drawn, ready 
to destroy reputations and put to 
rout the shades of the past.
No one is immune. Among the 
more rcccnt exploits of these depre­
dations and one which is sure to 
cause consternation and dismay in 
certain circles is the low-down fur­
nished^ upon • King David, of Biblical 
fame, by. Elmer Davis, in his book 
entitled “Giant Killer.’* One does not begin to question. David’s batting average or his. ability as a .political impressario, as", a result of reading this book, but oiic is certainly taken abadv by. tile conception of his per­sonality as therein, presented. Thu Sunday school-. story is. revamped considerably. And . on the basis of the best scholarship at that, for Davis has made use of the. soundest con­clusions of rcccnt research on this subjcct. .The story as now revealed is a fascinating chronicle of the deeds of an artist-politician, wierd combina­tion indeed. Not in the mood of * rhapsodical pancgyric nor a fisher­man’s. yarn, but as a straightforward 
impressionistic study of an cgotisti-' cal genius. At the most critical junctures of the violent and war-lika politics of his time, when new rulers rose through slaughter rather than by means of ward-hcclcrs, David could be .discovered strumming on the harp aiid improvising songs. And yet, he managed to take advantage or the. “breaks” of his opponents and with a. ruthless hand to have his giants killed for him by his henchmen, especially by the man of blood, Joab. It is a continual delight to pass through a story such as this which in­sinuates an ancient atmosphere and time and draws one iqto the sceiia as a participant and boon companion of old. King David. The past does not lose'its glamor and the'big fig­ures • emerge from their niumth'ified distortions, creatures of circumstance and hopelessly weak and inconsistent like us all even unto this day..There are those who refuse to fall into the big parade or to leap on tli« band wagon merely to swell the ego of a bloated egotist or to crcate an historical .figure. The thorough 1 go­ing democratic spirits among us pour 
contempt upon these personalities, who arc as often as not swathed in a tissue of lies. Our hearts go out to the common man and woman whu sweated and strained and bled. Un­named and unknown, but ycC tin» builder of empires. Therefore1, w<j turn to the study of culturc-history, in which the buideu of the taV. :o the story of the customs and tlim modes of . the ordinary ’man—how hrj worked .and amused himself. An example of a rcccnt attempt to resur-« rect the spirit of a culture is tha long poetic narrative’ of the Civil war era, by Stephen Vincent Beuct, called “John Brown’s Body.” This is a magnificently moving aiid kaleid­oscope treatment of four hectia years in the history of America. The heroes arc there but the feel of tlia times arc. recorded rather throtigU the experiences of ordinary soldier a and citizens. A school book history cannot possibly convcy the lecling o£ immediacy and pulsating reality that is achieved here.Still, there arc rare souls who in­sist upon discovering a "meaning”-or “trend” or “philosophy” of history. 
To date, this sca/ch has proved dis­
appointing. But it is “nevertheless fascinating. 'To derive a casual se­quence out of a rccord of dark deeds on a tangled skein, ip iio mean,' intellectual feat. Someone, has said that “we learn from, history that wit learn nothing from history.” This does not daunt such spirits for ex­ample,’as Virginia Woolf, the Eng-< lish writer, from’ wresting with Ilia problem, even though in a semi- serious manner. In her latest- \Vork, “Orlando,” a figure is crcated and traced through the centuries from the time of Queen Elizabeth to tjicj 
present. It is a brilliant work it# which the person at one slagq changes his sex in the next. era. Thq upshot of it all is this in the'opin-v ion of one reader, a decidedly caus­tic treatment of the idea of ¿time’* which seems to hold us in its thrall, today and in .this part of the world especially.These are the <;ort of history books “that .satisfy.’r In our passion for modernity; rose-tinted glasses will' not do nor will offidal blinders stay our impatience to. see the past unadorned. The sight of a hat- fiva years old is enough to caiisc galea of. laughter,. yet we insist on having our history “straight” and are ready, to stand the consequences. (—N. M
Robert R. Lochwood, of the Signal Corps, was . appointed cadet major, of? the Carnegie .Battalion, R. O. T. . C., and will-take, command at Thurs­day’s drill.Lochwood is a senior in the Elec­trical Engineering Department, where lie has held scholarshipsrfor the past three years. - He. is a member ot Delta Mu, . social fraternity, arid ot 'Scabbard and Blade, National 'Mili­tary Honorary. At summer train­ing camp, located- at Fort/iMotfirouth, N.. J., lie .was iifftiatcd .into Pi 'Taw Pi Sigma, .an honorary .lor..^students in the Signal Coi‘ps( now pc'titioniiijf for recognition on tlic Carnegie Campus. Fife- is also a member of Eta Kappa Nu,- the Electrical innor- 
VTj . • . ¦ ll rBesides the miijor, six ca^ ¡.cap­tains \fi11 be appointed to \ jsume Command of the- 'six cori’j mics. These will be. announced in the near future.
J “Worsted’ thread -or -yarn-is so called because it was first, made, early in the fifteenth century, in Worstead, Norfolkshire, England. The name of the town was at thav time spelled Worsted.
