A. A. H AM El? SC HU All 
O I REC Teil? C . i . T .(Harlan
SCBE IX. No. 29A.HMEl?E UMOI?IRIE CT eEi(MCaClrn X?IIONRHl(n XEMMOrao.M?.LPHOB 29, 1915
SCBE LPHH ON S2 3L9Y2WC2 eYCDY CE rxLCB CE psC9B B9L&L EpeB2YpE 
DrCY2B CBCE t22o aD9&Lxxg Dr2Y2B CY r2YY 92xLgE EpLW2 EsLo2Er2L92
Plans Have Been Drawn for Two 
Buildings.Smoker on Friday and Dance Satur­
day Evening.
Complete plans and specifications 
for the proposed dormitories were 
finished week before last and bids 
were advertised for at once. These 
were to be opened early this wek, and 
if satisfactory, the contract was to be 
awarded at once calling for an im­
mediate commencement of construc­
tion and a finished job by next Sep­
tember.
The portion of the group to be 
erected this summer will include two 
buildings facing a central court on 
Woodlawn avenue, across from the 
gym. These buildings will be sit­
uated with their long axis perpen­
dicular to the street and will be rec­
tangular in shape. The construction 
will be of brick with a rough stone 
base course. The group will be ap­
proached by a flight of stone steps 
from which walks will lead to the 
entrances. The court will be of grass 
with gardens, pools and a fountain, 
the whole effect having been design­
ed to give a strictly private charac­
ter to the dormitories.
At the front end of each lodge on 
the ground floor will be a large and 
commodious reception and club room. 
From this a hall will lead back to the 
central stair case which will be op­
posite the main entrance at the mid­
dle of the court.
Above will be three floors consist­
ing of a long corridor, open at each 
end, with thirteen double and four 
single rooms on a floor. There will 
be ample shower baths and lavatory 
space on each corridor. Many of the 
rooms will be inter-connecting, allow­
ing the arrangement of two or three 
in a suite. At the end of each cor­
ridor will be an open air sleeping 
porch.
The furniture in each room will be 
simple but decorative and will consist 
of beds, dishes, wardrobes, chairs, 
and a rug. Electric light and steam 
heat will be provided. The walls 
will be of plaster, painted, and the 
floors will be of cement with linoleum 
covering. The whole construction 
will be absolutely fireproof which is 
a decided asset when a student comes 
to reckon up where he would be if 
fire should suddenly wipe out all his 
books, clothes and personal belong­
ings.
Future plans call for the addition 
to the group of several smaller units 
in the rear and upon the hill but these
Continued on Page 2
The new student club room, better 
known as Carnegie Union, was for­
mally opened to the student body on 
Friday evening, before a large body 
of the students. The first speaker of 
the evening was Dr. Hamerschlag, 
who, after outlining' the origin and 
purposes of the Union, introduced the 
main speaker, Judge Schaeffer, of the 
board of trustees. Judge Schaeffer 
complimented the student body and 
those who had been in charge of the 
work on the room (upon the appear­
ance, and the benefits which are to be 
obtained from such a club as the Un­
ion. Prof. Solium, of the Department 
of Painting and Decorating, then fol­
lowed with a short speech on the deco­
rative features of the club room.
Following the addresses of the even­
ing some very interesting entertain­
ment was furnished by members of the 
student body. Sam McNulty, who en­
joys the reputation of being the Tech 
Meistersinger, rendered some very 
enjoyable solos, accompanied by Mr. 
Schutes, the accompanist of the Glee 
Club. The Junior class then present­
ed their famous moving picture take 
off entitled “The Third Party.” It is 
needless to say that the play scored 
a hit equal to that scored by some of 
the movies seen at the Junior De­
sign Smokers. Mr. Howard Imhoff, 
cf the Design School, furnished some 
very interesting crayon caricatures of 
people in our public eye, and then the 
evening’s program was concluded by 
a short address by President C. F. 
Peters, of the Student Activities 
Board.
On Saturday a very enjoyable dance 
was given the student body by the 
Activities Board. About one hundred 
couples attended, and despite the 
Warm weather were sorry when the 
orchestra began the home waltz. The 
programs, which were the work of the 
Department of Printing, were de­
signed under the personal supervision 
of Mr. Gage. Nirella furnished the
The University of Pennsylvania is 
planning to send its varsity crew to 
the Pacific coast next summer to 
compete in a special race which will 
be a feature of the Panama-Pacific 
exposition at San Francisco. The 
university officials are enthusiastic 
over the plan and they believe the 
race will be a big advertisement, both 
for the crew and the university.
Team Breaks School Record. Talented Production of “Much Ado
About Nothing.”Running in good form and doing ______
even more than was expected of it by
lowering the school record, the Plaid Under the Personal direction of Mr.
relay team of quarter-milers finished Douglas Ross the students of the De-
third in its class at the Penn relay P^tment of Dramatic Arts have
races last Saturday afternoon. Wor- earned a few sincere words of Praisecester (Mass.) Poly technical School and a distinct recognition as perform-
won the race in 3 minutes 32 2-5 sec- ers of remarkable fertility. Friday,
onds, the fastest time ever recorded Saturday, and Tuesday evenings they
for that division, with New York Uni- Presented Shakespeare's “Much Ado
•versity second. The last Tech run- ^bout Nothing’ in the theater of the
ner was not,more than eight yards DesiSn School. Fnday evening was
behind the leaders, and Hemmann, reserved principally for the trustees
who was our anchor man, crossed the and facult^ whlle Saturday and Tues-
line in 3 minutes 33 4-5 seconds, after evenings were composed of a
Heyl, our first man, had started off. mor,e Purely studen!t attendance.
This time lowers by 1-5 second the ,Th,erf been but few P1^5
former school record made by C. wh‘ch ,haye been 50 ea§erly attended
Crawford, Gilkinson, Steinmetz and and whlch> on the other hand’ haveSperry in the Pitt Intercollegiate exhibited so rare a production of tal-
Meet of 1911 en*’ w balanced by an overpower-
The Tech 'quartet fought hard all deSrJee o( /he stage ef-
the way. In the first quarter, Heyl f?c,s and, S"ncry were deePI>' lmPres'
lost a lew yards, but Rieser regained s,ve, and, «mb.ned a true artistic
some of the distance and managed to ’touch, '"th that of ,he *¦*»"-, S C BE ner of that early sixteenth century age.pass a couple of opponents, sending . L L 6... P H .i S ES The dramatis personae were as fol-Dunseith off in the third position. ^ O
“Dunny” ran his usual good race ^ ,. , S iji i Don Pedro, Prince of Arragon ....against a classy field and was only &
nosed out of his place near the tape. ••.••• ••''•••••• ai es . ere< ithTT n T>* N 2 3 S * Don John, his bastard brother............Hemmann, like Rieser, finished strong
and by passing two men, gained third ....................", ” / ?r^,0° C
place for the Plaid. C'aud'0’ a young ,0;d of F!°"n“-,
Coach Dull was satisfied with the ,. ,..................... mdn n II i it Benedick, a young lord of Padua...teams showing. Heyl ran a plucky L °, ... • , ..................................... Harold Munnisrace and with more experience should _ . w ., , , , , , , r Leonato, a governor of Messina ...be able to cut a second or two fromT\ ... , i .............................. Iheodore Vielmanhis time. Dunseith can always be , .... ,. , , , , i Antonio, his brother ...Charles Duffycounted upon to perform creditably, , . ;, , , i . Balthasar ............Frederic McConnellbut he seems overtrained already. A .
good rest should help him. Hemmann r.001^! -C ........................t 1°° 9S, r,. . , f Borachio .......................John W. Burkeand Kieser promise to be the stars of ,, _ 1Y Y . , _it T1 Y • Messenger ............C. Prederick Steenthe year. The former is going as b .,, ES . 1 1 , Priar Prancis ...W. S. L. Hirschbcrgwell if not better than last season,, , N 1 ,. , , Dogberry, a constable ......................while the work of the latter has been ., ...............................C. Predrick Steennothing less than sensational. .... „ , . ,, ,,N . • . Verges ..................Predric McConnell1 he summaries of the most import- _T « , ¦ TY ,, Hero, daughter of Leonato ............ant events follow:
CHAMPIONSHIP RELAYS. ' ‘ ‘............................................................... ......V V" " BettyBrownBeatrice, niece of Leonato ..............Two-mile college relay champion- Mary Blair
ship of America—Won by Princeton Margaret ............ .Ine^ M. Krebs
(Moore, Atha, Hayes and McKenzie); ________________
second, Chicago (Dismond, Stout, The University of Michigan ath-
Stegeman and Campbell); third, Yale lete§ haye placed the ban on the use
(Overton, Barkei, Lo\ eman and tobacco at mass meetings held in
lonelier); fourth, Purdue (East, ^jlc }lonor Gf varsity teams. Also
l arge, F. Campbell and \ anaken). they are working to abolish all bet-
Time, seven minutes 55 3-5 seconds. ting on games, drinking after vic-
I his breaks the collegiate record of tories and the use of profame lan-
eight minutes, made by Michigan in guage by members of the team. The
1913, and is but two seconds slower movement was entirely voluntary on
than the world s record, held by the part 0f athletes and it is hoped
Irish A. C. tjiat jt 2999 Spread to other univer-
Continued on Page 4 sities.

---------------------------------------------------

1GJijc (Harîau
®artan
Published weekly by Undergradu­
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN­
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
Editor-in-Chief
Harold L. Heilman, 16 
Business Manager 
Arch H. Cowan,, ’16 
Phone, Schenley 9167.
News Editors 
Win. M. Sheldon, ’15
E. G. Hamilton, ’17
Editors
Marguerite Spilman, ’15 
Anthony Kerin, ’l7Carl F. Peters, ’17 
P. N. Bossart, 16 Geo. A. Cook, ’18 
Associate Editors 
Marguerite Menges, ’16 W. M. Swan, ’18 
M. J. Wohlgemuth, ’16 C. B. Coe, ’16
PITTSBURGH, PA., APRIL 29, 1915
THE POLICY OF THE TARTAN.
At the beginning of the last school 
year an editorial policy was definitely 
laid down; a policy conscientiously 
framed with the best interests of the 
student body in view. That policy 
has been strictly adhered to. Some 
friendships have been sacrificed, we 
trust they are not many, but many 
valuable ones have been formed. 
Much has been accomplished during 
the past year by the Tartan under di­
rection of the retiring editor. He has 
attained the confidence of the entire 
student body and his period of tenure 
of office has been a stepping stone in 
the progress of both The Tartan and 
The Carnegie Institute of Technology.
There are those who would have 
these columns devoted entirely to the 
harmless but in no-wise profitable task 
of patting on the back the victorious 
athletic teams and various move­
ments. They might approve even an 
occasional flight into the realm of 
moral abstractions. But as soon as a 
concrete problem is attacked, they 
say, “Let it alone.” This phrase 
epitomizes the spirit of those who 
at all times and in all places stand in 
the way of progress. That spirit ac­
tuated most of the opposition. At 
the risk of offending students of this 
type, these columns will continue to 
be devoted largely to attacking con­
ditions in our school life that are in 
need of change. No mere muck-rak- 
ing will be done; nothing will be 
criticized unless there is constructive 
suggestion to accompany it. Hon­
est criticism is not harmful and we 
do honestly and squarely believe it is 
our duty to continue in such a chan­
nel, in fact we ourselves will always 
be glad to receive it.
We do not believe that it is the
duty of a school paper to be diplo­
matic. Quite the contrary. If there
is an evil to be remedied, we want
it remedied and we are not going to 
be afraid to say so. The interest of 
the entire student body cannot be sac­
rificed to keep a single individual or 
group of individuals in a pleasant 
state of mind.
We might easily go through a 
school year without criticizing any­
thing or anybody, but if we do so, 
we would feel ourselves traitors to 
the trust that is placed in this paper 
by the student body. Only frank­
ness pays. We hold that only through 
publicity can certain invidious prac­
tices be remedied. We can only say 
that it will be the policy of the Tar­
tan, as it has been the past year, to 
say unfearingly and truthfully just 
those things which need to be said.
Atlhough last week saw the third 
anniversary of the chartering of the 
Institution and the assumption of the 
name of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, one still hears and sees the 
old title of Carnegie Technical 
Schools in frequent use. This expres­
sion should be relegated to the past. 
It confers no impression to anyone 
as it does not distinguish the Insti­
tute from any technical high school 
or trades school, comprising a one 
year course. An institute confers de­
grees, a school does not, and now that 
the fourth graduating class will re­
ceive their right to wear the hood 
the name of the Institution should be 
such that it would give everyone a 
knowledge of our standing and be 
worthy of the prestige and honor 
which we now possess in all parts 
of the country.
A local morning paper has a week­
ly column of news headed, “Carnegie 
Technical Schools,” a prominent, to­
bacco company is advertising Car­
negie Tech Schools all over the city, 
and that title is also frequently heard 
spoken by many officially connected 
with the Institute. Let every student 
correct the mistake whenever heard 
and insist on the correct name at all 
times. “Carnegie Tech,” yes; but 
“Carnegie Tech Schools,” never.
BIDS TO BE OPENED
Continued from Page 1
will not be constructed until the suc­
cess of the larger lodges is assured. 
Only 180 students may be accommo­
dated by the proposed arrangements 
and due to the lowness of the price, 
which is from fifty to one hundred 
per cent less than demanded by other 
institutions, enough applications are 
expected this spring to completely fill 
up both buildings in the fall.
As the paper goes to press it is an­
nounced that the contract for the 
dormitories has been awarded to James 
L. Stuart Co. Construction work will 
start at once and the buildings will be 
ready for occupancy on September first.
The Michigan Athletic Association 
realized $30,000 in football last fall.
CAMPUS NOTES.
Director Hamerschlag left Tuesday 
for a three-weeks trip to the Exposi­
tion. The director has been appointed 
a member of the International Jury 
on Technical Education and it is on 
duties connected with this office that 
he goes West.
It was noticeable that baseball was 
rather a dead topic after last Wednes­
day. Howsomever, we do not quit a 
loosing team at this institution.
Which reminds us that it was only 
three years ago that we beat Pitt
15-1 on the same field and broke up 
the remainder of their season. So 
they have only made a fair exchange 
but as to breaking up the remainder 
of our schedule—humph,
Mr. Tarbell returned from Califor­
nia Friday, very much sunburned and 
also slightly homesick.
At the Penn Relays, Pitt’s quartette 
of quarter-milers took third place in 
their class, Penn State taking first.
Work on the Government Mines 
Buildings was inaugurated by the ar­
rival Tuesday of a steam shovel and a 
complete dinkey railroad outfit. One 
month’s time should cause quite a 
change in the landscape behind the 
Science Building.
The Pittsburgh branch of the Amer­
ican Institute of Bankers visited the 
Insttute last Wednesday night. The 
students of the drama department 
gave a special performance of “The 
Neighbors.”
It seems that we saw some men­
tion sarcastic from across the way in 
regards to the course in brick laying 
in the Industries School in one of the 
evening papers lately. We would 
rather turn out good bricklayers than 
poor engineers but as we are at pres­
ent putting out an excellent quality 
of both, we have no apologies to make.
Recent visitors to the Schools were 
Prof. Barker of the Harvard School 
of Drama and Prof. Clark of the Uni­
versity of New Mexico.
The toll of accidents from spring 
football practice have been rather 
heavy, the latest injury resulting to 
Slater, Science Plebe, who secured a 
badly sprained ankle.
Only one student is now in the 
West Penn Hospital, Pulliam, Science 
Soph., who is slowly recovering from 
typhoid fever.
The fondness of the Pitt rooting 
section for the free bleachers on the 
hill at the baseball game Wednesday 
was very apparent. This might have 
been expected, however, remembering 
that it took the greater part of an 
evening to bail Pitt men out of the 
coop last fall after the football game, 
although the Tech participant in the 
fcrimmage hardly stayed long enough 
to see the inside.
THISTLE NOTE.
Students not holding Thistle Re­
ceipt may secure a book on May 12, 
room 12, A. I., for $2.35.
What is considered to be the finest 
gymnasium in the south is now in 
process of erection at Washington 
and Lee.
ANOTHER LETTER FROM 
PROF. WURTS.
Honolulu, H. I., 
March 31st, 1915. 
The Editors of The Tartan,
Carnegie Tech,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
There are 60,000 people in Hono­
lulu, 6,000 in Hilo and a grand total 
of about 200,000 people in the Ha­
waiian Islands. Now, bearing in mind 
that those islands produce nothing but 
sugar and fruits, does it not stagger 
the imagination to think that the en- 
tirfc equipment for all those people 
has been brought here in ships? Leav­
ing out of consideration the thousands 
of minor things, in houses and stores, 
think of the plantation equipment, 
steam ploughs and milling machinery. 
The largest sugar mills in the world 
are located here and the annual pro­
duction is 600,000 tons. Then think 
of the building material in wood, 
brick, slate and iron, and then the 
street and road equipment is no small 
item. There are huge road rollers, 
street cars, rails, poles, automobiles, 
carriages, carts, horses. Think of the 
rails, cars and locomotives for several 
hundred miles of track; of the fuel, 
oil, gasoline, pumping machinery, 
electrical machinery. Well, this is 
only a beginning and on top of it all 
the ships must handle the regular traf­
fic both ways in passengers and food. 
The latter has to be poured in here 
to keep the people alive. I repeat, 
then, it staggers the imagination to 
think that all this is down in ships 
and from ports two, three and four 
thousand miles away.
Lately, I have made a point of visit­
ing some of the schools. There are 
many of them and after school hours 
children of many nationalities throng 
the streets. So far, my impressions 
may be summed up as follows: The
school buildings are substantial and 
fine looking. Inside they are clean 
and orderly, but I have not been much 
impressed with the teachers. The 
buildings of the Mid-Pacific Institute 
are particularly fine with a splendid 
situation in the heart of Manoa Val­
ley. The University of Hawaii was 
poor in equipment, although I believe 
they do some excellent work there, 
particularly in sugar chemistry. Oahu 
College I have not visited yet, but 
understand it to be the best school on 
the islands. So far, I have seen noth­
ing in this line that has impressed 
me as much as the Normal School at 
Santa Barbara under Miss Rich.
April 2d, 1915—Good Friday.
I have always had the impression 
that there was less spiritual life as 
one progressed from the East to the 
West, but if so, that rule ceases in 
Honolulu. This afternoon I attended 
the three-hour service in the cathedral 
of the Episcopal Church and to my 
astonishment found this large church 
packed with men and women, chairs 
being used for extra seats. After the 
service I walked down town and 
found it deserted.
April 4th.
The population here is, of course, 
mixed. The Japanese are far in the
Continued on Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

®artan3
Something Lively
SHIRTS, With I-inch awning 
stripes in Blue, Black,, Lavender
IF YOU are not afraid of a 
“little” color in your make­
up, step down to our Furnishings 
Section for one of these newest 
of the new novelties in shirts. 
The colors fairly sing with the 
pride of existence, yet have that 
something we have come to know 
as “class.”
They’re made of crinkled 
crepe. Wash them in a bath 
tub if you want to, because they 
are not to have starch or ironing 
at all.
Price a mere detail—only 
$2.00.
“Radnor” is a new collar. 
Give it the once over and you’ll 
be sure of at least something new.
Who said “BOW TIES”? 
Most every fellow is wearing 
them, or will be shortly. Here’s 
a whisper for you: Friday and
Saturday Horne’s will sell the 
50c quality for 25c. Stripes, 
of course, and square or pointed 
ends. Fine for those new $2.00 
crepe shirts.
You Tartans should be strong 
for a suit of Tartan, Shepherd 
or Glenn Urquhart checks. 
They’re here in force in the 
Men’s Clothing Section, and a 
Tech man to sell them to you 
on a Saturday afternoon.
Prices $15.00 to $30.00.
Joseph Horne Co.
RADIO RECEPTION. many of the fellows will be fully
______ answered at the last meeting.
CALENDAR.
Thursday, April 29.
Founder’s Day.
Saturday, May 1st.
Press Meet, Schenley Oval.
Tuesday, May 4th 
Geneva Tennis Match, Tech Courts.
Wednesday, May 5th 
W. & J. Baseball, 4:00 P. M. Athletic 
Field.
Thursday, May 6th
Penn State Tennis Match, Tech 
Courts.
Saturday, May 8th
Dual Meet with Allegheny.
Annual Inter-school Meet, Schenley 
Oval.
TECH SWAMPED BY PITT.
One-Sided Contest on Home Field.
Pitt evened up the 15-1 victory 
scored by Tech on our field three 
years ago, overwhelming the plaid 
team Wednesday, April 21st, by the 
one-sided score of 18-2. It was the 
first of the series of two games to 
be played by the two teams and re­
sulted in a very poor exhibition of 
baseball on the part of Carnegie.
The combination of our weakness in 
the pitching department, the facility 
of Pitts team at the bat, some poor 
fielding, and some more bad luck 
caused the large difference in the 
score. Several of Pitts long hits 
bounded against the hillside in center 
field and turned easy outs into singles 
or doubles. Several very erratic plays 
were also pulled off by our infield 
which resulted in a few of Pitts many 
runs.
Pitt has a team composed of ex­
cellent ball players, especially in the 
pitching department. Each man is an 
adept at the bat as well as in the 
field, eleven doubles and a three-bag­
ger being negotiated from our pitch­
ers. However, in field play, coaching 
and baserunning the Blue and Gold 
team is far from perfect, pulling many 
boneheads during the afternoon.
Even with the score hopelessly one­
sided Tech fought hard to the last and 
played a very plucky game. Lain, be­
hind the bat, was the most consistent 
performer, putting up a hard and 
steady game.
Pitt started off with three hits in 
the first and secured one run. Two 
more runs came in in the second in­
ning, but in the third the Techites 
held Pitt to no score and landed a 
couple of runs themselves. In Car­
negie’s half, Lain opened with a fly 
to center. Englehart muffed it, how­
ever, and the runner was safe on first. 
Pitcher Hines sent another one in the 
same direction and again Englehart 
dropped the ball. Another fly to cen­
ter by Doherty failed to get away 
from the middle fielder. McClure’s 
sacrifice left the runners on second 
and third. With two down Dawson 
came to the bat and sent a single be­
tween the shortstop and thirdbaseman. 
Both Lain and Hines scored, while 
Dawson tried to reach second and was 
put out. At the time the score was 3 
to 2 and it looked like the Plaid had 
a chance but in the next inning Pitt 
found Hines’ delivery again and
scored a couple of runs. In the sixth 
Ihey hammered him hard and Ryan 
went in. But Ryan was roughly treat­
ed and Wean took the mound in the 
eighth. Pitt banged him pretty hard 
during that inning, but in the ninth 
he struck out two men and allowed 
no hits. The box score:
PITTABRHPOAE
DeHart, 3 .... 524100
Beattie, rf.-c. .. 632500
Healy, s..........623140
Dillon, If. .... 612110
Hastings, 2 ... 401230
Gray, 2..........110020
Peck, 1 ..........6121200
Englehart, mf.. 522202
Matson, c. .. .. 311300
Morrow, c. ... 222000
Hart, p............222060
Langdon, p. ... 212030
Totals ........48182327192
TECHABRHPOAE
Doherty, s. ..400421
McClure, mf. .. 300311
Dawson, rf. ... 201100
Lundell, rf. ... 100000
Humphreys, 1. 401601
Kreider, If. ... 200201
Kesner, If.. 200000
Krum, 3........300021
Oefifinger, 2 ... 301121
Lain, c.............3101020
Hines, p...........210051
Ryan, p...........000021
Wean, p...........100030
Totals ........302327198
12 02 15 25 0--18
Tech.................. 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0-2
Three-base hit: Engelhart. 
Two-base hits: Beattie (2), Healy 
(2), Dillon (2), DeHart, Hastings, 
Peck, Hart, Langdon.
Struck out: By Hines 4, by Ryan 1, 
by Wean 3, by Hart 3, by Langdon 2. 
Sacrifice hits: DeHart, McClure. 
Stolen bases: Beattie.
Base on balls: Off Hines 1, off Wean
1, off Hart 1.
Umpires: Brown and Mullen.
SEYMOUR TO CHOOSE TENNIS 
tfEAM.
Now that the opening of the tennis 
season is drawing near, the picking 
of the team begins to interest every 
one. The selections will be made by 
Mr. Seymour of the P. A. A., who is 
one of the best tennis authorities in 
this part of the country. The fol­
lowing men have been most faithful 
in practicing and have shown the best 
form. The selections will more than 
likely be made from this list: Eng­
lish, Bihlman, Wilson, Henning, 
Lauer, Emmel, Brown, Vernon, 
Sweeney, Jacobson, and H. Helstrom. 
Don’t forget, fellows, that the season 
opens on May 3rd, with Geneva. The 
match ought to be a good one. Last 
year we won, but this year Geneva 
has prospects of a good team, and 
the contest will be well worth seeing. 
On May 6th we tackle Penn State 
and although we aren’t exactly sure 
of winning we’re going to make Penn 
State hustle some.
In the fifth lecture of the series Mr. 
Van Dyck spoke on “Radio Recep­
tion,” explaining different types of re­
ceivers and different systems. The 
lecture was well attended and from 
the attitude of the audience the ad­
vice of Mr. Van Dyck, who has had 
considerable experience, will be fol­
lowed in the bettering of the amateur 
conditions around this vicinity.
Various forms of interference pre­
venters were described, among them 
the Fessenden preventer, which is 
very efficient. The Heterodyne re­
ceiver was explained fully and this 
feature was well attended to because 
this type of receiver will be used in 
our Radio station.
The method of sustained wave re­
ception was explained carefully as 
amateurs have a difficult time in hear­
ing these forms. Many questions 
which are doubtless in the minds of
PROMINENT MAN TO SPEAK.
Friday, April 30, at 4:15, John W. 
Slayton will speak in the Desig ? 
,chool Theater. Mr. Slayton, who 
will be present under the auspices of 
the C. I. T. Economic Society, is very 
widely known throughout the coun­
try. He is a noted lecturer and wa > 
at one time candidate for Governor 
of Pennsylvania, on the Socialist 
Party ticket. His talk will be inter­
esting and every one is urged to be 
present.
Don’t forget the time: Friday,
April 30, at 4:15, in the Design School 
Theater.
Artificial eyes were invented in 
Paris in the sixteenth century.
—M. A. C. “Holcad." 
That must have been the time of 
the original slit skirt?

---------------------------------------------------

4(Ib? (Hartan
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO.
PITTSBURGH’S OLDEST AND LARGEST DYEING AND CLEANING WORKS
Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon St.
here’s a real special, boys!
$5.00 raincoats at $2.00
A lightweight raincoat that will shed the rain without causing 
one to perspire. Smart looking coats with the military collars, 
slashed pockets and wrist straps —rubber lined.
All sizes 36 to 46 chest.
They wont last long, so hurry here as soon as you can.
vZ, BOGGS & BUHL yTZ,
M. M. C. S. NEWS
THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.
On Tuesday afternoon, April 20, the 
Athletic Association of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School held its 
election of officers for the year 1915- 
16. The results were as follows:
President, Marion Pichel.
Vice President, Francis Willis.
Sec’y-Treas., Regina Jacobs.
Head of Basketball, Janet Mandell.
Head of Tennis, Helen Drill.
Head of Hockey, Ruth McNamee.
The Athletic Association is the 
youngest organization in the school 
and has rapidly taken ¡the place of 
some of the older ones, as the Dra­
matic and Glee Clubs. The success 
of its first year can be attributed to 
the efforts of the President, Miss Mar­
garet Spilman, through whose work 
the organization of the Association 
was made possible. Considering its 
youth, it has made wonderful prog­
ress, and the new officers can do no 
more than thank their predecessors 
for their able assistance and offer 
their services, quite unlimited, to the 
continuation and further success of its 
activities.
It was decided, at the meeting, to 
award sweaters in basketball, to those 
girls who have made the Varsity 
team. Although comparatively few 
class games have been played and a 
very few outside games, the decision 
was made merely as an incentive in 
the future, if for no other reason.
The season will close with a Field 
Day, the date of which has not been 
definitely decided. It will be given 
under the direct supervision of the 
Department of Physical Training. 
Among other features there will be 
a Sophomore-Plebe Hockey game, 
the finals in tennis, provided the 
weather permits the progress of the 
tournament up to that point before 
that date, and the awarding of the 
sweaters to the basketball team.
We hope to make the day both 
pleasant and interesting, and beg the 
students, as far as possible, to lend 
their assistance in showing everyone 
a good time. All are invited.
PENN RELAYS
Continued from Page 1
One-mile freshmen college relay 
championship of America—Won by 
Yale; second, Pennsylvania; third, 
Columbia. Time, 3:28.
One-mile preparatory school relay 
championship of America—Won by 
Mercersburg; second, Exeter. Two 
starters. Time, 3:28 4-5.
Smith of Mercersburg ran the last 
quarter in 49 3-5 seconds.
Four-mile college relay champion­
ship of America—Won by Cornell 
(Speeden, Potter, Hoffmire and Wind- 
naglo); second. Michigan (Donnelly, 
Fox, LTfer and Carroll); third, Wis­
consin (Schardt, Merrill, Hodges and 
Harvey); fourth, Pennsylvania (Hum­
phries, Colton, Peeso and Dorsey); 
fifth, Ohio State (Nevin, Phillips, Fer­
guson and Carroll). Time, 18:07 3-5.
One-mile college relay champion­
ship of America—Won by Pennsyl­
vania; second, Harvard; third, Mis­
souri. Time, 3:18, breaking the 
world's record of 3:18 1-5, made by 
M. W. Shepperd, H. Gissing, H. 
Schoof and J. M .Rosenberger of the 
Irish-Americans in 1911. The Penn­
sylvania team was made up of Kauff­
man, Lockwood, Lippincott and Mere­
dith. Meredith ran the last quarter 
in 48 2-5 seconds. The Harvard time 
was 3:19 3-5. The team ran in this 
order—Tower, Teachner, Willcox and 
Bingham. Missouri was distanced.
One-mile high school relay champ­
ionship of America—Won by Wash­
ington, D. C., Central; second, Brook­
lyn Manual Training; third, Morris 
High, New York. Time, 3:34.
COLLEGE RELAYS.
College relay one mile—Won by
Pennsylvania State; second, Swarth- 
more; third, University of Pittsburgh; 
fourth, Fordham. Time, 3:29 1-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by
Holy Cross; second, Naval Academy; 
third, University of Virginia; fourth, 
Syracuse; fifth, Coe University; sixth, 
Johns Hopkins. Time, 3:26 4-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by 
College City of New York; second, 
Stevens Institute; third, Drexel, Phil­
adelphia. Time, 3:35 3-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by
Dickinson; second, Catholic Univer­
sity; third, Manhattan; fourth, Gettys­
burg. Time, 3:32 3-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by
Maryland Agricultural; second, Gal- 
laudet, Washington; third, Delaware 
College. Time, 3:37 4-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by
Lehigh; second, Rutgers; third, La­
fayette; fourth, Washington and Jef­
ferson. Time, 3:31 4-5.
College relay, one mile—Won by
Worcester (Mass.) Polytechnic; sec^ 
ond. New York University; third, Car­
negie Tech; fourth, Haverford. Time, 
3:32 2-5.
FIELD EVENTS.
Javelin throw—Won by Phillips, 
Idaho University, distance, 177 feet 
4)4 inches, breaking the collegiate rec­
ord of 169 feet 81/! inches, held by 
Dorizas, Pennsylvania; second, 
Nourse, Princeton, 176 feet 5 5-8
inches; third, Berry, Pennsylvania, 152 
feet inches; fourth, Bachman,
Notre Dame, 133 feet 2)4 inches.
After Robert L. Nourse of Boise, 
Idaho, wearing the colors of Prince­
ton, had broken the collegiate record 
of 169 feet 8^4 inches, made last year 
by M. Dorizas, University of Penn­
sylvania, by hurling the javelin 175 
feet 8)4 inches, John L. Phillips broke 
the new record with a throw of 177 
feet 4inches.
High jump—Won by Richards, Cor­
nell, the Olympic champion, height 6 
feet 4 inches; second, Oeler, Yale, 6 
feet 3 inches; James, Northwestern 
University, and Johnstone, Harvard, 
tied for third place at 6 feet.
Richards afterward tried to break 
the collegiate record of 6 feet 7 inches 
made by Horine, Stanford University. 
Fie cleared the bar at 6 feet 5 inches.
Broad jump—Won by James,
Northwestern, distance, 22 feet WeD 
in.; second, Graham, Columbia, dis­
tance, 22 feet 4% inches; third, Row­
ley, Pennsylvania, 21 feet 6)4 inches; 
fourth, Gibbs, Osteopathy College, 
Philadelphia, 21 feet 1inches.
Discus throw—Won by Bachman of 
Notre Dame, 137 feet 6 inches; second, 
Dorizas, Pennsylvania, 131 feet 6)4 
inches; third, McCutcheon, Cornell, 
126 feet 11 inches; fourth, Ross, Mich­
igan, 126 feet 6)4 inches.
Shot put—Won by Maxfield, La­
fayette, 44 feet 11 inches; second, 
Roos, Yale, 44 feet 10^ inches; third, 
Richards, Cornell, 43 feet 11 inches; 
fourth, McCutcheon, Cornell, 43 feet 
4)4 inches.
Pole vault—Foss, Cornell, and Neu- 
stetter, Pennsylvania, tied for first 
place at 12 feet 9 inches. On try for 
13 feet, Foss sprained his wrist and 
he and Neustetter will toss later for 
the place. Thirteen men were tied at
11 feet 9 inches for third place. They 
were Armstrong, Navy; Porterfield, 
Franklin and Marshall; Floyd, Mis­
souri; Van Kennen, Cornell; Wilson, 
Michigan; Curtis, Syracuse; Carter, 
Yale; Johnstone, Yale; Camp, Har­
vard; Haydock, Harvard; Greeley, 
Harvard; Baker, Princeton, and Sew­
ell, Pennsylvania.
It was later announced that in veri­
fying the height the tape was one inch 
short and that the actual vault of Foss 
and Neustetter was 12 feet 10 inches. 
Each will receive a first prize.
TRACK EVENTS.
100-yard dash, final—Won by Drew, 
Southern California; second, Smith, 
Michigan; third, Knight, Chicago; 
fourth, Howe, Colby. Time, 10 sec­
onds.
120-yard hurdle, final—Won by 
Kelly, Southern California; second, 
Simpson, Missouri; third, Hammitt, 
Pennsylvania State; fourth, Ward, 
Chicago. Time, 15 3-5 seconds.
Gymnasium classes for faculty 
members have been organized at the 
University of Michigan, which meet 
twice a week.
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
TECH BARBER SHOP
HARRY F. VAN CUREN 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents 
UP-TO-DATE MEN’SIFURNISHINGS
CRAIG and FORBES ST.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEY
WeDer Express & storage (o.
Moving, Pack'ng and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. & A. Phone 952 A
H. A. BECKER,
THEOA KLHEN
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
No. 601 Ohio Street » n n.,, » in Corner of Middle N. o. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Desks, Macey Sectional Bookcases 
Interfiling Cabinets and 
Cabinet Supplies
J. G. MARSHALL CO.
959 Liberty Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

She (Eartan5
APPLIED INDUSTRIES
were heard from many.
PLEBES DEFEAT FACULTY.
The Industry faculty was defeated 
by the Industry Plebes to the score 
of 13 to 9, Saturday morning. The 
game attracted much attention among 
the students and was witnessed by a 
large crowd. The faculty was offer- 
ng odds of 3 to 1 before the game 
and after the third inning the term’s 
were even.
The game was almost broken up in 
the eighth, when Red Bosler shouted 
from the bleachers, that the Profs, 
might better substitute young Col- 
mery and young Pfouts, for the bat­
tery. Proufts, Sr., was in the act of 
delivering, but stopped long enough 
CB say that Bill, Jr., would show them 
all up in ten years.
Capt. Dosey expects to strengthen 
his lineup and give the men some 
practice before the next game.
The line-up:
Faculty—B. Colmery, c.; Pfouts, p.; 
Colmery, s.; Capt. Dosey, 1st; Man­
ning, 2nd; Perley 3rd; Miller 1. f.; 
Leftwich, r. f.; Young, r. f.
Plebes—Roese, c.; Boyd, p.; Wil­
loughby, s.; Hoye, 1st; T. J. Williams 
2nd; Gartshore 3rd; Manel 1. f.; W. K. 
Williams, c. f.
The Graphica held its first enter­
tainment Friday and from all indica­
tions that child of the printing de­
partment is forging along with rapid 
strides.
The faculty seems to have had it 
put over. We overheard one of the 
players say before the game, I’d like 
to play, Het, but you know the risk 
a man takes. Wonder whether that 
meant physical risk.
Plebes ducking plebes is rather un­
usual, but Downs and Kerr received 
the tank for too dexterously catapult­
ing a pail of water on their classmates 
recently.
Hoxworth is rapidly recovering 
from the injury to his shoulder blade.
We ought soon to hear from the 
committee on Plebe regulations for 
next fall’s newcomers. Hazing is an 
item of much importance and should 
be handled delicately.
Is that cup coming to the school? 
The athletic committee should be in­
tensely interested.
Maguire and Lilley, ex-S. A. I. men, 
both wrote recently; the one from a 
train crossing the great desert of New 
Mexico and the other from his dad’s 
ranch in Gary, Denver.
The Music school evidently has 
new quarters, judging from the mid­
day strains emerging from the Print- 
ery.
The dance program for the Car­
negie Union dance reflected much 
credit upon the Printing Department. 
Unusually complimentary remarks
Founders Day will find the road 
from the Industries group to the De­
sign and M. M. C. S. schools ready 
for travel. No more B. V. D. R. R. 
then.
The Athletic Committee ought to 
arrange to have the Conn ell ey trophy 
suitably 4 ««graved as having been 
again won by the class of 1916.
WEST VIRGINIA WINS.
Plaid Team Loses In Fifth Inning,
Carnegie came out second best in a 
game played with West Virginia at 
Morgantown, W. Va., last Saturday. 
The Mountaineers had Barron in the 
box, and he pitched an excellent game 
winning 7 to 3. Darlington pitched 
for Carnegie and up until the fifth in­
ning he kept the West Virginians 
guessing. In the fifth he gave way 
however, and the West Virginians 
pounded his delivery. Wean was 
called upon to take his place and suc­
ceeded in keeping the home team un­
der his control during the remainder 
of the game. Darlington must be 
given credit, however, for he pitched 
a great game during the first four 
innings. Stone, at shortstop for the 
West Virginians, played an excellent 
game. Saturday was his first game 
and he took every fielding chance and 
made a couple of hits. Catcher Lain, 
of Tech, as usual, banged out his 
quota of hits, while Kesner also 
starred with the stick. Out in left 
field Kreider got away with some 
clever fielding.
At the beginning of the fifth inning 
the score stood 2 to 1, with the home 
team ahead. In that inning West Vir­
ginia pounded out four runs. Fidler 
opened the session with a triple to 
right field and closed it by fanning, 
the entire team getting a chance at 
bat. Another run was scored in the 
fifth. Tech came back with a rally in 
the ninth inning, but at this time it 
was too late. Lain and Humphreys 
scored, bringing Tech’s final standing 
to 3 runs. The box score:
TECHRBPAE
Kreider, 1..............00301
M’Clure, m..........00120
Lutton, r..............00201
Lain, c. ..............?2420
Humphreys, 1 .... 11910
Kesner, 2 ............02210
Krumm, 3 ..........00020
*Cephus ..............00000
Doherty, s............01311
Darlington, p. .... 00021
Ween, p.................. 00010
Totals ................ 3624124
W. VA.RBPAE
Hersey, m............12210
Leatherwood, 2 ... 22221
Stoops, r................ 00100
Simon, 1 .............. 001101
Dille, 3 ................01031
Ayers, 1................01100
Fidler, c................?1900
Stone, s.................12130
Barron, p.............11030
Totals ..............71027123
P. IUDEBUEM and SON
Shoes and Hosiery
Penn and Frankstown Ave. E. E.
YOU LIVE IN YOUR SHOES
most of the time— 16 hours out 
of the twenty-four, at least.
rxp s&t oa g&(.&6t0o1ah 
rai»a .ntta, .aat &»a6 fM pa06d
*Batted for Krumm in ninth. 
Carnegie Tech .0 001 0000 2—3 
West Virginia ..0 01 14100 *—7
Two-base hits: Kesner, Leather-
wood, Humphreys. Three-base hits: 
Ayers, Fidler, Stone. Sacrifice hits: 
Humphreys, Leatherwood, Stoops, 
Stone. Left on bases: West Virginia 
7, Carnegie Tech 6. Double play: 
Kreider to Doherty. Stolen bases: 
Humphreys, Leatherwood, Simon. 
Hits: Off Darlington, 5 in 4 2-3 in­
nings; off Ween, 5 in 3 1-3 innings. 
Struck out: By Barren 8, by Darling­
ton 2, by Ween 2. First base on balls: 
Off Darlington 4, off Barron 2. Wild 
pitch: Darlington. Time: 1:39. Um­
pire Hays.
BASEBALL TEAM TAKES
THREE-DAY TRIP.
The baseball team will take a trip 
through Ohio the latter part of this 
week. They play Otterbein at West­
erville on April 29, Ohio Northern 
University at Ada on the thirteenth, 
and Heidelberg, at Tiffin, on May 
first.
The next home game will be the 
Washington and Jefferson one on next 
Wednesday, May fifth. Then there is 
another trip to Huntingdon on the 
seventh to play Juniata and to State 
College on the eighth. Penn State 
comes here the next week and will 
play Tech on the thirteenth.
This gives two good chances to 
come out and see the team in action. 
They will both be good games, W. & 
J. on Wednesday, the fifth, and Penn 
State on the Wednesday following, 
May thirteenth. The team will need 
the active support of every student of 
the four schools.
STUPENDOUS PERFORMANCE 
DAILY.
Rivals Creation and the Johnstown 
Flood.
See the battleship blown up by the 
submarine. Marvellous application of 
the forces of nature. Nothing like it 
before. Wonderful, gigantic, awe-in- 
spiring spectacle of power of the 
death-dealing torpedo. Mighty dread­
nought sinks beneath the engulfing
$5.00 Meal and J 
Merchandise Ticket
Open 7 A. M. Until Midnight 
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
Forbes & Bouquet Sts.
ELOWERSEOR ALL OCC ASIONSRandolph & McClements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue
Neat Highland Ave.
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Dyers 
Cleaners
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
THE D. L. AULD CO.
OF COLUMBUS, OHIO
Established 1871 
Official jewelers to the Principal Fraternities and 
Classes. Makers of Class Rings and Pins 
Pittsburgh Representative
REGINALD TUTHILL 
203 Oliver Building Bell Phone Grant 838
15PAPsH.lvCM
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER 
WOOD C UTS, ZINC ETCHINC.H ALF-TONB
BOTHPMES ENGRAVEP _
ocsie" 71,Pt NN AV£ PITTSBVKGH.P/l 'X'TK^y
waves. Time, morning, noon and 
night. Place, office of purchasing 
agent. Admission free. Management 
of Frank Orbin. Nuf Ced.
SPRING FOOTBALL.
Spring football practice has now 
been going on for about two weeks 
with almost forty men reporting reg­
ularly. But Capt. Lauer would like 
to see a bunch more out. The work 
principally consists in limbering the 
men up, mostly forward passing and 
formation work with some light scrim­
mage. It is only intended to take 
some of the awkwardness out of the 
fellows and to keep them in condition.
There will be two weeks more for 
new men to report in. This is the 
chance for those who never saw a 
football. The captain will be able to 
look everyone over now. ¡Next fall 
there will be little time to spend on 
the new men. Now, all the husky 
fellows ought to report, for they will 
get more individual attention to put 
them in line for the new season. So 
we need a bunch more Plebes and 
Sophomores who haven’t been out be­
fore. Come out, fellows.

---------------------------------------------------

6GUí? (Tartan
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES1 5 H. P. Twin-cylinder 
Indian Motorcycle
This Trophy is for the 
Most Popular Student 
in our College
Who is he? That’s for you to say! Tear off the front of a Fatima, a Piedmont, a Favorite, a Home Run, or an Oasis Cigarette package. On the back of this pack­age front write the name of your choice and drop it into the ballot box which you will find in almost any tobacco store. The pack­age fronts have different voting values, as follows: Fatima, 40 votes; Favorite, 5c pkg., 5 votes; 10c pkg., 10 votes; Oasis, 5c pkg., 5 votes; 10c pkg., 10 votes; Piedmont, 5c pkg., 5 votes; 10c package, 10 votes; Home Run, 10 votes. Re­sults of the voting will be posted at the end of each week. Contest closes May 31, at 6 p. m. sharp.
MOTOR CYCLE CONTESTv ¦ for '• •*•»*,.**. *Most Popular Student of
e] for Popular
ss?
mnmamfj&TIHA [
Coupons count «»
^FYonf 9 count as 40N2sût*
Coupons count as iwio***
il“iîî»FÂ*« 5 Vote%w
Help decide who shall
Win This $225 Motorcycle
Look on the bulletin boards for the list of nominees. Is the name of 
your choice there? If not, get busy and put him in the race. Only one 
student can win the prize—but every one can help decide who the win­
ner shall be. Don’t lag behind. Get in and vote for the student you 
think is entitled to this honor. There are no restrictions—vote for any 
student you please and—
Vote early and often
A Chance to Help the University Athletic Association
Besides package fronts, you may also vote Coupons from following brands, and they 
will be counted at the values named:
Fatima Coupon - 40 votes Piedmont Coupon - JO votes 
Oasis Coupon - - JO votes Velvet Coupon - - SC votes 
Duke’s Mixture Coupon - 5 votes
All coupons voted in this contest will be redeemed for cash at the rate of 1 -2 c each, 
and at the close of contest the money will be presented by the Liggett & Myers 
Tobacco Co. to the Athletic Association.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
THE VACATION RECITALS- 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC.
If quality rather than quantity 
counts, a magnificent audience of 42 
greeted the musicians who gave the 
programme, Monday afternoon, April 
12th, in the Theatre of the School of 
Applied Design—a programme deserv­
ing a larger hearing.
Mr. McGowan made a favorable im­
pression in two piano numbers— 
"Ostinato”, by Arensky, and the 
“Rienzi Paraphrase”, Wagner-Liszt.
The ’cello solo, “Macrau Caractér­
istique” by Godard, was given a very 
artistic interpretation, and with a 
splendid tone quality, by Mr. Carl 
Christensen, whom it would be a priv­
ilege to hear again.
The ‘‘First Movement-Concerto D 
Minor,” by Kreutzer (violin), was Mr. 
Aron’s very acceptable contribution 
to the programme.
The ensemble number—A Haydu 
Quartet (D Major, op. 64- No. 2) was 
notable for the intelligent interpreta­
tion, the sure attack and the general 
excellence and equality of the several 
performers. The body of tone was 
pure and the ensemble more perfect 
than is often heard in professional 
performances of considerable preten­
sion.
Mr. Gluck has an individuality of 
tone, distinguishable even in ensemble, 
which gives his hearers faith in a 
larger future for him . This faith was 
strengthened by his solo work in the 
evening performance—a “Minuet” and 
“Larghetto” by Mozart. He evinces 
a certain delicacy of feeling in all his 
work which is refreshing after the 
struggle, for bravura effect, made by 
so many.
The audience at the evening con­
cert was sufficient in number to ren­
der audible applause, which must have 
been inspiring to the performers.
Miss Adele Hennig, in her piano 
number (First and Second Movement 
of Saint Saens’ “G” minor Concerto), 
showed a very considerable advance 
in her art, as to quality of tone, tech­
nique and style.
Miss Bloom contributed much to 
the pleasure of the evening by play­
ing The Second and Third Movements 
of Grieg’s “Concerto in A minor”. We 
hear too little of Grieg. Mr. Foster’s 
flute solo—“Idylle,” by Godard, added 
variety and was well received.
L’nquestionably the feature of the 
evening programme was the playing 
of Mr. Sladek, a newcomer who has 
the promise of a splendid develop­
ment. His youthful appearance in­
vited tolerance, at the first stroke of 
his bow, it was dissipated and one 
recognized that here was a being en­
dowed with that unexplainable thing 
we call genius. The tone he elicited 
was full, broad, rich and colorful, and 
the “Hejre Kati,” by Hubay, proved a 
happy medium for the expression of 
his artistic temperament.
These programmes were well bal­
anced and of more than ordinary in­
terest because they avoided the stereo-
typed “history of music” plan of 
"Bach, Beethoven, etc., etc.”
Mr. Charles Meredith, member of 
the Department of Dramatic Arts, 
who took the leading role in the pre­
sentation of Shakespeare’s “Much Ado 
About Nothing,” has received the con­
gratulations of many friends and de­
serves recognition as an actor of no 
mean talent.
“Sox” Price, alias “Oatcake,” is a 
student of Dramatic Arts and seems 
to have given the older members of 
the class a few pointers.
The members of the class of ’18 of 
the Design School have heartily voted 
a word of thanks and appreciation to 
Mr. O. W. Wilkins, chairman; Mr. 
C. C. Wood and Mr. M. W. Garber, 
who served as the committee in 
charge of the class banquet recently 
held at the Schenley Hotel.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB DANCE.
The dance and entertainment given 
by the New England Club of C. I. T. 
at Carnegie Union Friday before last 
was the first school affair to usher in 
the partly completed Carnegie Union. 
With the walls and ceiling painted in 
gold and black, the new furniture ar­
ranged around the hall, and tables and 
chairs for little “family” groups scat­
tered here and there, the place cer­
tainly did look good.
A rather small but select crowd of 
New England students and their 
friends were present to enjoy the treat 
which was given by the club. Danc­
ing began at 9:00 P. M. Mr. Philip 
O. Roberts and Miss Flora Haller led 
the grand march. Programmes were 
then distributed and the dancing be­
gan in earnest. At 10:30 intermission 
was called. This was in the form of a 
moving picture film. Some of the 
latest school scenes were shown as
well as an uproariously funny comedy 
entitled “Hans at the Garbage Gen­
tlemen’s Ball.” Dancing continued 
until 1:00 A. M., when add dispersed 
after a most enjoyable evening’s en­
tertainment.
An unusual feature was in the fact 
that the punch lasted until the very 
end. At similar previous affairs this 
was never the case, plain ice water 
being in vogue during the latter part 
of the evening.
Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Willett and Mr. 
and Mrs. H. J. McCorkle were present 
as chaperons and patrons.
The committee was handicapped by 
the illness of Mr. Jos. Gelman who 
was operated on recently at the West 
Penn Hospital, and the absence of 
Mr. J. B. Fay. Thanks are due to Mr. 
John Towns for his kind assistance.
This year’s Yale-Harvard race on 
the Thames is to be rowed upstream.

---------------------------------------------------

tartanZ
RAD NORSCIENCE SCHOOL NOTES
20 s0tn&s01 nsdtntltn&sI
THE NEWLHHC3
COLLAR
Don’t move your old Upright or 
Square I’lano into your new1 home.
Save tile moving and trade it in 
on a fine new
EDsY29 SLSg W9LYB
—OR—
BEHNINO PLAYER PIANO
that will be a delight to the entire 
family.
Our complete stock of new Pianos, 
comprising fifteen leading makes, 
makes it possible to select a good 
Piano at a price to suit your purse. 
Whether you want to pay $150 for 
a substantial Upright or $800 for a 
fine Grand or Player, you’re always 
certain of receiving legitimate value 
for your money at HOFFMANN’S.
Full value allowed for old Pianos 
taken in exchange, and the balance 
can be paid in Easy Monthly Pay­
ments if desired.
You owe it to yourself to visit our 
warerooms before buying your 
Piano or Player Piano.
J.M.H0FFMANNC0.
ESTABLISHED 1S63.
537 Wood Street
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor. of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Goods called (or and delivered.
W. O. BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phones 3160-3161 Schenley 
Special prices to Tech Students
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Peifect Work in Ladies’, Children’s and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specially 
ROOM 401 EAST END TRUST BLDG.
PHONFS- f Offi-e 449 Hiland rH t.3. $ Works: 4912 Hiland
Your Corsage Bouquet
You want it pretty but not expensive No 
use to pay $3 when $ 1 or less will an­
swer the purpose. Get your next one at
HARRIS BROS* 0pp. Rosenbaum's
Iron City Electric Co.
Everything Electrical
711 Grant Street
(Between Seventh and Liberty Avenue)
CIVIL SENIORS VS. JUNIOR 
CIVILS.
The most interesting and exciting 
game so far this season was played 
on Schenley oval on Monday after­
noon. Many features marred the 
game, the chief ones being Collison’s 
sensational playing at third and “Pop” 
Thayer’s decision on an infield “fly.” 
Baker starred in the box for the Jun­
iors. Dolan, for the Seniors, pitched 
a good game, but had poor support. 
While commenting on the game, the 
management might be criticised. At 
least two bats should be provided so 
that when Braun breaks one “Curly” 
Lauer will not be compelled to stop 
catching and go to Oakland for an­
other.
The lineup and score:
Junior—Braun, r. f.; Vierheller, s.; 
Maier, 2nd; Baker, p.; James, 3rd; 
Stickel, 1st; Krieger, 1.- f.; Lauer, c.; 
Levine, m. f.
Senior—Collins, m. f.; Roberts, 1st; 
Pauterman, s.; Pincus, c.; Collison
3rd; Krampert, 2nd; Hamilton, 1. f.; 
Wolf, r. f.; Dolan, p.
Juniors .............. 4 3 0 1 2—10
Seniors .................... 0 0 1 0 1— 2
Hits off Baker, 0; off Dolan, 12.
Strike outs—Baker, 9; Dolan, 5.
ZETA LAMBDA EPSILON 
MOVES.
On Saturday, April 17th, the Zeta 
Lambda Epsilon fraternity moved 
from their house at 237 North Dith- 
ridge street to their present home at 
5444 Forbes street, at the corner of 
Forbes and Murdoch streets, which is 
just beyond the East Forbes street 
entrance to Schenley Park. The tele­
phone number remains 9053 Schenley. 
The house is three-story brick situ­
ated in a capacious lot and is admir­
ably adapted for fraternity purposes 
being handy to the Institution but 
still in one of Pittsburgh’s finest resi­
dential districts. Zeta Lambda expect 
to hold a housewarming in the near 
future.
NEW APPARATUS IN METAL­
LURGICAL LAB.
The metallurgical laboratory has 
obtained a new piece of apparatus for 
determining transformation points. 
In the heat treatment a steel, which 
is based entirely upon changes which 
take place in the structure of the met­
al, the critical temperatures of the 
metal must necessarily be known. 
That is obtained in this piece of appa­
ratus. By means of thermocouples one 
is enabled to discover the relation be­
tween temperature and the time, and 
so obtained the desired critical tem­
peratures. The new apparatus is ex­
pected to give much more accurate re­
sults in finding these critical points.
Some Penn archeologists discov­
ered loaded dice among some Egyp­
tian relics.
—Ex.
S(.60H01h oH01 i 3.»
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
fUREffA r&&, dt6aat
LETTER FROM PROF. W1RTS
Continued from Page 2 
majority. Then come the Chinese, the 
Hawaiians, Koreans, etc. The Japan­
ese and Chinese are very picturesque, 
particularly the women who always 
wear their native costumes. Yester­
day I saw for the first time a middle- 
aged Chinese lady with the tiny feet 
that we used to read about. At first 
glance I thought she was an unfor­
tunate cripple with only stumps in­
stead of feet, but on closer inspection 
I saw my mistake. Her feet were no 
larger than those of a five-year-old 
child. She walked slowly and with 
some difficulty.
I leave tomorrow for Mavi.
A. J. Wurts.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY.
Lectures Delivered for the Month of 
April.
Apr. 6, 8 P. M.—Prof. H. R. Thayer— 
“The Work of the Engineer.” 
Sarah Heinz House, N. S., Pitts­
burgh, Pa.
Apr. 6, 8 P. M.—Dr. L. O. Grondahl— 
“Tesla Oscillations—Theory of 
Antenna Radiation.” Western 
Pennsylvania Radio Society, and 
all interested in Wireless Teleg­
raphy, Room 209, Science Build­
ing.
Apr. 6, 2:30 P. M.—Miss Mary G. In- 
gersoll—“Sewing.” Mothers’ Club, 
Carrick, Pa.
Apr. 9, 3:30 P. M. Dr. Walter S. 
Libby—“Education and Our So­
cial Needs.” Woman’s Club, 
Wheeling, W. Va.
Apr. 9, 8 P. M. Dr. L. O. Grondahl— 
“Radium and New Ideas of Mat­
ter.” Sheraden Presbyterian 
Church, Sheraden, Pa.
Apr. 9. Prof. T. W. Stevens—“The 
Changing Theatre.” College Club, 
Bessemer Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Apr. 12, 8 P. M. Prof. H. R. Thayer 
—“The Work of the Engineer.” 
Social Center, Universal, Pa.
Apr. 13, 8 P. M. Mr. A. F. VanDyck 
—“Radio Transmission.” West­
ern Pennsylvania Radio Society, 
and all interested in Wireless 
Telegraphy, Room 209, Science 
Building.
Apr. 15. Dr. A. H. Willett—“The 
Cost of War.” Civic Association, 
Allison Park, Pa.
Apr. 16, 8 P. M. Prof. T. W. Stevens 
—“The Changing Theatre.” Wil- 
kinsburg Discussion Lyceum, 
Wilkinsburg, Pa.
Apr. 18, 4 P. M. Mr. William Pfouts 
“The Lore of the Woods; a 
Talk on Trees.” Sarah Heinz 
House, N. S., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Apr. 19, 8 P. M. Dr. L. O. Grondahl 
—“Radium and New Ideas of 
Matter.” South Hills Club, 
United Presbyterian Church, 
Prospect St., Mt. Washington, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
DON’T TAKE 
CHANCES 
WITH YOUR
Printing
Place it with 
the shop that is 
t ho rou gh1y 
familiar with your wants and that 
has always given the Tech students 
clean-cut, attractive printing, prompt 
and efficient service at reasonable 
prices—
THE BLAIR COMPANY
Fourth Floor, Bindley BuildingSeventh Avenue and New Grant St.
CHOCOLATES
“OUR MESSENGER”
Apr. 20, 8 P. M. Mr. A. F. VanDyck 
—“Radio Reception.” Western 
Pennsylvania Radium Society, 
and all interested in Wireless 
Telegraphy, Room 209, Science 
Building.
Apr. 20, 8 P. M. Prof. S. S. Keller— 
“The Fairy Lands of Astronomy.” 
First Presbyterian Church, Aspin- 
wall, Pa.
Apr. 27, 8 P. M. Mr. A. F. VanDyck
— “Commercial Operating” — 
Question Box Answers. West­
ern Pennsylvania Radio Society, 
and all interested in Wireless 
Telegraphy, Room 209, Science 
Building.
Clean, hot dry steam is applied to 
every garment. The heat of this 
steam is so intense that no “living 
thing” can hope to survive, and in fact 
your clothes are subjected to a steril­
izing process while being pressed. See 
Shuman, 3911 Forbes street.
—Adv.

---------------------------------------------------

aOilcj OJartatt
75 Y KARS ON WOOL» STREET
Plenty of style in the soft 
shapes this spring — and 
plenty of shapes that are 
stylish.
Soft hats and derbies in Knox and other celebrated makes, to $20.
PAULSON BROS. CO.
515 WOOD STHKET
ftu-5th Ave. and Wood St.
U.?aCTB
College Clothes a Specialty
SUITS AT $35.00
|\7|odern Trances
9Y WeDLrrxr Lps &toSLax
R. E. JACQUES
(All Castle’s Woik)
Forbes and Craig Sts. Pittsburgh
Miller's Restaurant
5Ì4 Smithfield Street
Miller’s Cafeteria
520 Smithfield St., Pittsburg 
FOR EATS
COME TO US
rw 9PFj jk c3SFB"7 j7w VPj7w£ Tkk£" 
ckS ek3S K.SPjIC (Pe rwG
THE HALLER BAKERY
OD BMU SUDBUI Cn BMU OICthCec roCSf Lquiqsl
HOTEL
SCHENLEYBurner Shop & Pool Room
MW TABUS AND NEW MANAGfMfNT
RADIO TRANSMISSION.
The first of the series of practical 
lectures was given on Tuesday, April 
13, by Mr. Van Dyck. The three lec­
tures previous to this have been on 
the theory of the radio work and have 
shown the physical conceptions of 
radio-telegraphy and the various kinds 
of radiation.
In order to have the best conditions 
for transmission we need high fre­
quency alternating currents in the an­
tenna. The main reason for high fre­
quency currents is that the E. M. F. 
is dependent on the frequency. Now 
the most obvious way of obtaining a 
high frequency is to generate the high 
frequency current directly by means 
of alternators. However, there are 
great limitations in the design of such 
machines which make them undesir­
able in certain cases. The principle of 
condenser discharge for transmission, 
although a crude one, was utilized 
very successfully by Marconi in his 
work. The third method is by arc 
generation.
The antenna is something to grip 
the ether. The portion in the air, 
the aerial, is only one half of the an­
tenna, the other half being the 
ground directly beneath the aerial. 
The natural conclusion is therefore 
that a very good ground on the aerial 
must be had or the operation will not 
be successful. Consequently, water 
pipes, which are the most widely used 
grounds among amateurs, are the 
worst thing to use for grounds, if 
good results are desired. The best 
possible method is to have wires on 
the ground underneath the aerial or 
just a couple of inches below the sur­
face of the earth.
The methods of transmission were 
then taken up as follows:
First: Condenser discharges. Di­
rect current may be used for this 
method, the best example of this sys­
tem being the station at Clifton, Ire­
land. Alternating current of any fre­
quency may be used to more advan­
tage. however, but that of 500 cycles 
per second is used now in preference 
to other frequencies because it can 
be heard more easily and can traverse 
the air better.
Second: The subject of sustained
wave transmission and arc genera­
tion were touched upon only.
Mr. Van Dyck then showed by 
means of the lantern various “hook­
ups” and explained them clearly. The 
different parts of the sending system 
were taken up in order and the use of 
each explained so that everyone should 
be able to use his own apparatus with 
better success. An important point 
made was that all circuits should be 
connected symmetrically so that the 
oscillations set up should all travel 
the same arithmetical path length. 
The different stages in oscillation 
transformer development was dis­
cussed and was understood by every 
one.
The relation of the power in an os­
cillating system, to the other con­
stants of the system, is one which 
every operator needs and is therefore 
given. This equation is
CV2N
K. W. = ---------
1000
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh
WEDDING GIFTS OF 
STERLING SILVER
Exquisitely designed table ornaments, toilet silver or the thousand 
and one trinkets, such as women love.
The Hardy & Hayes Co.
213-215 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh
kKN Lquiqsl rqsu
as this strong, progressive Trust Company is generally 
known, has been an important factor in the business 
expansion of Oakland, since its inception. Its service 
is prompt, efficient and far reaching. Your business 
is cordially invited.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Capital and Surplus $400,000.00 
Vanadium Building Oakland
LUDWIG FLORAL CO.
502 Federal Street, Corner Park Way 
Opposite Boggs & Buhl
Flowers for All Occasions
where K. W. is the power of the sta­
tion in kilowatts; C is the capacity 
used, in farads; V is the E. M. F. 
used, in volts; N is the number of 
sparks per second. This relation is 
an important one, as it causes all the 
constants to be proportioned so as to 
get the best operating results.
The interaction of circuits was next 
taken up and was well shown by the 
mechanical analogy of two pendulums 
and a rubber hose. When one pendu­
lum (A) is set vibrating, the second 
one (B) after a short time vibrates 
also. Finally pendulum A slows down, 
while pendulum B vibrates at a large 
frequency. Then A starts up, while 
B slows down. This is repeated until 
friction overcomes the motion.
In the quenched method, pendulum 
A is stopped after pendulum B has 
gathered momentum. Then at the 
right instant A is started again and 
then stopped at the appropriate time. 
This method is also called that of 
“impact excitation”, pendulum A be­
ing the “primary circuit”, and pendu­
lum B, the “secondary circuit.”
The wave meter, as an important 
adjunct of the station, was next taken 
up and described fully. In illustrating 
the use of the meter, Mr. Van Dyck 
applied it to the station which was 
set up in the room. A curve was 
taken then between the wave length 
and the number of turns in the oscil­
lating helix. This curve called the 
“timing curve”, was plotted on paper 
and projected by means of the lan­
tern and with the able assistance of 
Mr. Holcomb. It was decided to use 
a wave length of 170 meters, and this 
value on the curve corresponded to 
two turns in the oscillating coil, and 
10 turns in the antenna coil.
The “resonance curve” was then 
taken, this being wave lengths plotted 
with current in the antenna. The 
point of maximum current would ob­
viously be the best for operation. 
This point occurred at about 165 
meters so that the first value of 170 
meters was very nearly correct.
The subject of sustained waves was 
taken up and treated fully. The 
method of generation of the high fre­
quency by alternators was taken up. 
The machines run at very high speeds 
and have many poles. This method 
has many disadvantages, among them 
being the high cost, the requirement 
of constant speed, the complication of 
apparatus, and the fact that only one 
wave length may be used.
The arc generation, while it has the 
disadvantage of requiring constant 
and expert attention, has the over­
whelming advantage of permitting the 
wave length to be varied within com­
paratively wide limits.
itôîïtSÎ5’
