Ali ABOARD 
FOK CKAFTCN, CARNEGIE 
AND POINTS EAST!
PEE-RADE 
TO UNION DEPOT 
SATURDAY, 1045 A. M.
VOL. XIX No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1924
THREE TRAINS 
TO WASH-JEFF 
ON SATURDAY
Two Trains Will Leave 
Penna. Union Station at 
11:30 — Third Special at 
12:40—-Tickets For Game 
at Overend’s Office
RAILROAD FARE IS $1.16
* Tbere will be three trains leaving 
ior Little Washington 011 Saturday. 
Two of these will leave at 11:30. 
These are primarily for students. The 
other is for faculty and alumni and 
will leave at 12:40. All students are 
urged to leave on the first two trains 
because they will get to Little Wash­
ington at 12:45 in time" for the pre­
liminary game. The faculty train will 
arrive at 1:45. All trains will leave 
immediately after the game for the 
return to Pittsburgh. Belo»v is a sum­
mary of the schedule:
*J* ? -I* *!? *2* *!" v v •!* v »!* v v *1« *!*
A
* Railroad ..................Pennsylvania ?
<- Depot ...................................... Union ?!*
* Student Trains .......................11:30 *
* Faculty Train .........................12:40 *
* Price of Ticket ......................$1.16 v
Ticket for game...-------.... .75 ?
* Tickets on sale at Graduate *
v Manager’s office. *!?
* Present Student Book and»Reg- •!-
-J- istration Card. •!*
*•> * * * «3* * * V •!* * V * * * * * *
The cost'or the train ticket includes 
the round trip.
Tickets for the game itself must bo 
obtained at Buddy Overend*s office in 
the New Gym. To get these tickets 
you must present your student book 
and registration card.
The preliminary game will bo bo- 
(Continued on Page Three)
Cal Lundquist Elected 
Musicial Club Manager
Resigns as President to As­
sume New Capacity
The Musical Cfubs ensignia mem­
bers elected th$ manager for the year 
at the meeting held last Sunday af­
ter the rehearsal. It was voted that 
President Cal Lundquist should resign 
as president and assume the, duties 
as manager, but, na ho thought this 
was too complicated for the' compre­
hension of some of the members who 
adhere to the Rules of Order, I10 sug­
gested that the motion was out of 
order. Therefore, just to show him 
that the Clubs wero really deter­
mined, a vote was taken by secret 
ballot, and he was elected. Gal 
Lundquist has been with the Clubs 
in the capacity of Second Tenor, Ac­
companist, and Quartet, Accompanist. 
He is a very capable man for the 
office, having bad a great deal to put 
up with running the piano for the 
quartet.
The Clubs are under way. The 
Glee Club sang a piece clear through 
last Sunday, and it did sound quite 
well. ' Thé Manttàlin Club was playing 
Magic Ring when tho reporter 
stepped in, and he was struck with 
the harmony of it all. There is still 
a shortage of first .tenors and bassos, 
but since the Rushing slieason has 
come to a close, the members of the 
various houses bave a chance to come 
out.
At the meeting last week, Manager 
Lundquist appointed Leo P. Stimmler 
as chairman of a committee to ar­
range for the smoker which will be 
held in the near future to arrange the 
stunts for the year It lias been the 
custom of the clubs to have such a 
gathering in order that the stunts 
might be given a try-out prior to go­
ing on the road. The plan is a good 
one, and will be developed in tho next 
Tartan.
(Continued on Page Two.)
GIRLS ORGANIZE AND 
COMBINE MUSIC CLUBS
This year the Girls’ Glee Club and 
the Stringers are to be under the 
same management, but are to have 
soparate officers. Those of the Glee 
Club for the year 1924-25 are as fol­
lows: President, Virginia Seibert;
vice president, Dorothy Weber; sec­
recy and treasurer, Charlotte Durie; 
librarian, Dorothy Stein; manager, 
Amy Glassford, and assistant man­
ager, Mary Quick. The Stringers 
will probably elect officers next 
week.
Tryouts for the Stringers were 
held Wednesday, October eight, at 
4:30, Jn the Margaret Morrison Rec­
reation Hall. More tryouts will bo 
held later. The old members of the 
Stringers who will return this year 
are Janet Perry, Margaret Maxkey, 
Amy Glassford, Harriet Blose and 
Bernice ZoHars. Helen Wilson has 
been chosen pianist.
There is some rumor abroad that 
(Continued on Page Three.)
DR. WALLACE PETTY WILL
SPEAK AT CHAPEL THURS.
Rev. Wallace Petty of the First 
Baptist' Church at the corner of 
Bellefield and Bayard street, will be 
the speaker at chapel service on 
Thursday, October 16, in the Little 
Theater. Though we do not know 
the substance of the talk wo can 
feeli sure ‘ that it be interesting, 
those who have heard Rev. Petty 
speak can vouch for an interesting 
service at chapei.
Let’s have as good attendance this 
week as last week, come early and 
get a good seat. Plebes! Come 
and show your Upperclassmen that 
you are at least religious.
R. 0. T. C. OFFICERS 
GET APPOINTMENTS
Harris, Matter and Jarem, 
Captains to Head 
Engineer Unit
Appointments for commissions in 
the Engineer Unit of the R. O. T. C. 
were made recently by H. C. Lyons, 
Captain C. E. (Dol). The men ap­
pointed "have all proved their ability 
as military leaders and will have com­
plete charge of the various units in 
the drills.
The following men have been rec­
ommended for their' commissions 
wliJch will be awarded at a General 
Assembly some time in the future:
L. H. Harris, III, Captain, Battalion 
Adjutant.
Milo Matter, Captain, Company C.
John D. Jarema, Captain, Co. B.
W. G. Winning, First Lieutenant, 
Company B.
L. C. Hughes, First Lieutenant, 
Company C.
H. R. Jones, Second Lieutenant. 
Company B.
J. W. McCredie, Second Lieuten­
ant, Company C.
L. L. Simmons, First Sergeant, Com­
pany B.
A. G. Wilson, First Sergeant, Com­
pany C.
R. D. Gaylor, Paul Johner. R. W. 
Leonard, J. F. Sollers, Sergeants, 
Company B.
N. R. Miles, J. J. Murray. M. H. 
Oldham, G. A. Role, R. I. Winters, 
Jack Harris, Sergeants, Company C.
Further officers, sergeants, and all 
corporals to be appointed later.
The Engineering Ur.it. this year con­
sists of two companies of three pla­
toons each, which .will drill 011 Thurs 
days under the officers just appointed 
QiSfcCrs for the other R. O. T. C. units 
willj bo appointed soon.
Colonel Cunningham of the Military 
Department received a letter from the 
commanding general, Third Corps 
Area.
The gonoral expressed his satisfac­
tion at the neat military appearance 
and soldierly bearing of the R. O. T
C. nnd congratulated the members on 
the 'excellent training they received at 
their respective camps.
Asbury G. Wilson, Junior Civil En­
gineer. received special mention in 
the letter. Wilson was selected as a 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Night Registration 
Hits New High Mark
Twenty Per Cent Increase 
Over Last Year
Night school activities opened 011 
October 6 at Carnegie with a regis­
tration of «approximately 2,225. Dr. 
Ihrig is very well satisfied with the 
steady stream of applicants, ready to 
take advantage of the opportunity that 
Carnegie offers for evening study.
The Arts College courses, in Drama 
and Architecture especially, show a 
marked increase in registration over 
last year. In the regular come in 
Carpentry there are nearly ninety reg. 
istrants. contrasted to nine of four 
yeas ago.
Two new courses have been added 
in Industries School, granting a di­
ploma after two years study—Elec­
trical Equipment and Construction, 
and Electric Meter and Practice. 
These courses are very attractive to 
those wishing specialized instruction, 
in these lines.
The Night School, although com­
paratively young, is one of Carnegie’s 
most important features. Through it. 
ambitious students, employed through 
the day though they aro. increase 
their efficiency and earning power.
The growth of Carnegie Night 
School has been very amazing in the 
few years of its history. Where a 
few years ago, a mere handfull were 
interested enough to register, now the 
waiting line rivals that of day school.
(Continued on Page Two.)
SELECT TWO ASSISTANTS
FOR HEAD CHEER LEADER
The Student Council has approved 
the selection, by its special commit­
tee, of two first assistants -to Head 
Cheer Leader, Al Minetti.
The men selected are Pete Seaman 
and Dick Houcks. Pete Seaman Is a 
Junior in the Commercial Engiiloer- 
ing Department of the College of En­
gineering, a member of the Wood- 
lawn Club, and Theta Tau. Dick 
Houcks is a Junior in the Teacher’3 
Training Department of the College 
of Industries, and is a member of Pi 
Kappa Alpha.
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
THIS MORNING 
AL MUSIC HALL
Winner of Scholarship Cup 
to Be Announced By Tar- 
bell—Buddy Overend and 
Wnddeli to Speak at Pep 
Meeting
BIG CROWD EXPECTED
The attractive program and the an­
nouncement of the winner of the fra­
ternity scholarship cup for last year 
are sure to bring out a large number 
of students to general assembly this 
morning at Carnegie Music Hall at 
11:30. The social committee has 
made great effort to gather talent for 
assembly, and the resulting array of 
performers insures a large turnout. 
In addition a short pep meeting is to 
be held to practice yells and to “pep 
up” for the W. & J. game four days 
away. “Buddy" Overend and Bob 
Waddell will say a few words which 
are sure to be eagerly drunk in by 
the students.
The announcement of tho winner 
of the fraternity scholarship is anx­
iously awaited since the possesser 
will have a flying start toward perma­
nent ownership of the coveted trophy. 
Dean- Tarbell has refused to announct 
the name of the winning fraternity 
until this morning’s assembly, a fact 
which adds more interest to the pres­
entation inasmuch as it will be a com­
plete surprise.
The number and variety of enter­
tainers secured by tho social commit­
tee rivals a professional vaudeville 
show. Ann Luria and Warren Kim­
ball, Sophomores in tho Drama De­
partment are to present a fancy 
dance. Miss Luria and Kimball are 
well kndNvn for their "Dance of the 
Rose” an Argentine tango, which they 
«resented at the Campus Week 
Vaudeville show last May.
Obie Newman, well known singer 
of ‘'blues" and southern Negro melo- 
(Continued on Page Two.
Smoker Will be Held 
By Technical Journal
Prospective Contributors Are 
Invited to Attend
The present. Tocftnical Journal HtafT 
will hold a smoker on Wednesday 
evening at 7:30 in the Commercial 
Club Room. A special effort is being 
made to have present all those who 
are interested in contributing to this 
magazine.
Good eats, good smokes, and good 
speakers assure those who attend of 
a bang-up time.
Now Plebes, here's your chance. 
Especially Science Plebes have a 
splendid opportunity here for a profit­
able activity. There are places now 
for a dozen fellows, both 011 the edi­
torial staff and the business end.
That’s what the present staff wants, 
men who will work for this magazne, 
who will help keep the standard high; 
men who have ability to write along 
technical lines, and who are inter­
ested enough to devote the short time 
required.
There qije few schools who publish 
a scientific paper of such national im­
port as the Technical Journal. To 
keep this standard up there must be 
men of ability who will write and 
work.
Come around Wednesday night and 
get acquainted with the staff and with 
the policy of the paper. That’s what 
the smoker is for. Tho attendance of 
the entire staff is requested of course. 
Don’t; forget 7:30 in the Commercial 
Club Room.
STUDENT DIRECTORY TO 
BECOME A TRADITION
Every college, has its traditions. 
Carnegie is no exception to the rule 
—far from it. We could name off 
hand a*, least ten traditions which 
are as inseparable from Carnegie as 
the very name itself.
Add to tho Jong and ever-growing 
list of traditions, the Carnegie Tech 
Student Directory which will make 
its appearance on the c-ampus ere 
this month rolls by.
It is regrettable! that this long- 
felt. need- was not satisfied before 
this, but better late thaoi not at all. 
There is little doubt that the whole­
hearted welcome which the Directory 
receives will establisn id firmly in 
the hearts of Carnegie men and 
women—one of tho things which they 
will take away besideB knowledge 
wjum they graduate. *
LUTHERAN STUDENT CLUB
RECEPTION A SUCCESS
The reception for the students of 
Carnegie, Pitt and P. C. W. held 
Friday evening was a total suocess. 
Approximately eighty students rep­
resenting the trree schools met at 
Student House. —
PARADE TO UNION DEPOT ON
DAY OF WASH-JEFF GAME
On Saturday at 10:4"» a. m., tho rear 
of the jail downtown will be a. mecca 
for Carnegie students.
There will assemble nil tho cheer­
ing cohorts of Carnegio Tech prepa­
ratory to their parade to the Union 
Depot where they will entrain for Lit 
tie Washington where the Plaid will 
encounter the Red and Black in their 
annual battle.
The students parade will'be lead by 
Al Minettl and his assistant dice 
leaders, bedecked in their new 1*0 
galia, down Fifth avenue and across 
Liberty avenue to tile Union Depot.
NEW PLEBE RULES 
ISSUED BY COUNCIL
Additional Regulations to 
Govern Plebes and 
Sophomores
In order to obviate the necessity 
of official action covering interference 
with classes due to friction between 
the Freshmen and Sophomores, the 
Student Council has Approved the fol­
lowing additions to Plobe regulations. 
These will form a permanent part of 
the Plebe code nnd will be included 
in the Plebe bible.
These new rules wore drawn up at 
a conference including Milo Matter, 
president of the Student Council, Hof- 
fer Sload, chairman of the Freshman 
Regulations Committee, Director Mor­
ris, Director Dny, Dean Tarbell and 
presidents of the Sophomore classes.
Additions to Plebe Regulations.
1. All morning activities will stop 
at S:20 a. m.
2. All noon inter-class activities 
will cease at 1:20 p. m.
3. All costumes must bo or such 
nature so as to bo ¿ easily removed 
In tho space of two (2) minutes.
4. There will bo no inspections af­
ter 8:20 a. m. In or around buildings 
iu which classes aro being hold.
5. No Freshman shall bo promis­
cuously punished without duo cause.
G. No. Freshman shall have his hair 
cut without proper trial and approval 
of school sonate.
7. The above rules will hold good 
provided the FreBhmen submit to in­
spection.
8. Theso rules are subject to 
chatigff by the Studfifo'“Ci/tinell.
All Freshmen alld Sophomores must 
'ulhero strictly to the rules as slaiod. 
Offenders will be subject to discipli­
nary action by tho 'Student Council.
Tho purpose of the now rules Is not 
to eliminate survolllenco of the 
Plebes by tho Sophomores, but rather 
to so organlzo it that there shall be 
(Continued on Pago Four)
Scalp and Blade to 
Hold Dance in Union
Annual Trophy Dance Will 
Be Put On Friday Night
This honorary fraternity of Buffa- 
lonians donates the cup which is 
awarded to the winner of tho Interfra­
ternity Basket Ball Tournntnoht. The 
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity won the 
International Basket Ball Trophy last 
year. Rumors around tho campus 
have it that there will be keen com­
petition this year for tho cup. Our 
annual dance fell by tho wayside hu-t 
year, but next Friday evening it will 
make Its reappearance at the Union 
as the start toward celebrating a vic­
tory over W. & J. There will not be 
a football dance this Suturday even­
ing, as it is expected that everyone 
will be too excited to dance. The 
only chance that you will have to 
dance in the Union is Friday evening 
Everybody is welcome.
Carl Bankier is introducing a new 
orchestra “Tho Yankee S'eveu” on 
this occasion. They are certain to 
create a sensation and will be en­
thusiastically received. Dean Brown 
accompanied by Mr. Swanson and 
Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick will be pres­
ent. so your best girl will -feel right 
at home.
We want all Buffalo fellows to in­
troduce themselves to the committee, 
as we expect to be one of the leading 
honoraries in activities on the campus 
this year. Preparations are under 
way for our annual smoker for the 
boys from home ,whicli will be held 
(Continued on Page Two.)
FRESHMAN RECEPTION OF
NEWMAN CLUB TOMORROW
The Newman Club will give it« 
'annual Freshman reception tomor­
row night at the Duquesne Council 
House, Fifth and Bellefield nvenues. 
All Catholic st/uidentH of Carnegie 
are invited. The hours of dancing 
will be from nine to one. There in 
no assessment.
Tho chairman of tho event has 
made preparations for a largo crowd. 
An orchestra which Is popular 011 tin 
campuses of both Pitt nnd Carnegie 
has been engaged. Tim committee 
promises a pleasant informal even­
ing, with tag dances tho rule.
Special care will) bo taken to have 
tho new students become acquainted 
with the Upperclassmen and with 
each other. Tho recer/tion is expect­
ed to help make their first college 
year a happy one,
SELECT NAMES 
FOR PLATES ON 
GIRLS’ DORMS!
WANT SINGERS TO FORM
A BACH CANTATA CLASS
All students who sing will be inter 
osted In a class organized in the Mu­
sic Department, to sing Bach Cun- 
I tatas.
This class mU meet eaoh Monday 
afternoon at 3:30 for a one hour re­
hearsal. Miss Seaman, bond of tho 
tho conductor,Forestry Catalogue Evidently I Vo'co ,0 J j H you are Interested In choral slug-Consulted in Finding Titles I °r t,u’ liteher type, come around 
to Arts School, room 160 next Mon- For Women S Hcllls—Plates I day afternoon and show Bach how n 
j Carnegie chorus will sing his Can- 
tatas.to Be Bronze or Green Iron
OLD NAMES REMAIN
Names have now been chosen for 
each of the girls' dormitories on 
Forbes street nnd on Woodlnwn that 
wero formerly designated by numbers. 
The plans for tho name plates are 
being completed and the students 
should begin to accustom thomsolVes 
to the new names.
Tho scheme for giving each .house 
the name of a tree has been carried 
out very successfully. Forbes Hall 
and Mellon Hall will bo unchanged. 
Tho names have been given hi alpha­
betical order beginning with Mellon 
Annex which will hereafter be called 
Birch. Of the Forbes street houses, 
5064 (next door to Mellon Ilall) will 
be Cypress, 5072 Elm, 50S0 Haw­
thorne, 5100 Laurel, and 5150 Linden. 
The names of the Freshman houses 
011 Woodlawn are likewise In alpha­
betical order. Magnolia is the new 
name of 5151 Woodlawn, 5117 is Ma­
ple, 5143 Is Oak, 5141 Is Spruce, 5137 
is Sycamore, and 5133 Is ‘Walnut. Tho 
prartloo house is to bo called Wil­
low.
Those In charge have not doflnitely 
decided all the details except the 
doslgn of the name-plate. The orig­
inal sketch was mado by Mr. dial- 
fant, an architect, and graduate of 
Carnogie. Mrs. Kuo Watson Marshall 
has earned out tho sketch In tho na­
ture of a shield, which consist» of a 
burning oil lamp, signifying know! 
edgo, with a background of a wreath 
of thistles. Tho name is to bo placed 
below the lamp and just above a dis­
taff. tho symbol of womanhood.
Tho plates will lie oxocuted oitlior 
in Pompeian bronze or painted cast 
Iron. Threo samples of tho name 
(Continued 011 i’ngo Throe.)
Sons of Italy Give Duse 
Memorial to Carnegie
Tablet to Be Placed in Arts 
School Near Blue Room
ARRANGE SERIES 
OF EXHIBITIONS
Carnegie Institute Announces 
Art Program For 
Year
Last Sunday, October 12, as part of 
their Columbus Day program, tho 
Pittsburgh lodges of tho Order of tho 
Sons of Italy presented a bronzo me­
morial tablet to the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology In rnomory of Eleonora 
Duse. Tho lodges paraded from 
Washington Park to Ilio new gymna­
sium, -where a largo mans mooting 
was held. Tho principal spoukor was 
Prof. Zopto Valentin! of Italy. Mayor 
William A. Magee made an address J11 
behalf of tho city. At the close of the 
program, the tablet was unvollod. 
The presentation was made by «Tolui
B. Fortunate. Dr. Thomas S. Batter 
accoptod the memorial for tho Insti­
tution.
Eleanora Duse, was tho distinguished 
Italian tragedieno who died at Hotel 
Schonley April 21. 1021, while on a 
tour of the large cities of tho United 
States. She was one of the groat act­
resses of the time, ranking second 
only to the great Sarali Barnbnnlt 
Duse played In the largest cities on 
both continents, being enthusiastic­
ally received wherever she went, al­
though she was one of the! oldest 
women on the stage, she was remark 
able because of her youth, fulness and 
great activity. Her death was a sad 
blow to the dramatic world.
The tablet will be placed in the 
main corridor near thte Round Table 
room in the College of Fine Arts.
I A loan exhibition of "Old Masters” 
from private collections of Pittsburgh- 
I ers will be.,shown at the Carnegio In- 
I stitute this season 011 the.dates hore- 
i tofore given over to the annual in- 
! ternational. This announcement was 
made yesterday by Homer Salnt-Gau- 
dens, director of line arts. The ex­
hibition will bo held April 23 to Juno
I. As previously announced tjic 
j twenty-fourth international will go 
ovor until Octobor, 1925.
The loan exhibition will bn tho last 
of what promises to bo a very Inter­
esting sorles of exhibitions. On Octo­
ber 15 tho art season will ho inaugu­
rated with throe special shows. Tho 
first of those will be of early French 
improssionlsts and wild contain groups 
of paintings' by Manet', Renoir and 
Morisot. Tho socond will bo a col­
lection of lithographs by Eugene Isa- 
boy and It. P. Bonington and tho third 
will be nine oil paintings, which wore 
acquired by tho Institute during 11122 
and 1023.
On Octobor 21 the department, will 
present, a collodion of paintings by 
j Leopold Soyffert, who Is 0110 of Amer­
ica’s host known portrait, painters. 
Ills paintings 111 the. International Ex 
lilbitlonn aro familiar to Pittsburgh­
ers. In the last, international ho 
j showed a portrait of Frank («. Logan,
! 1.I10 vice president of the Art Insti­
tute of Chicago, which was very much 
! admired. The fact that Soyffert has 
painted a number ol p^isi'alts of well- 
known Pittsburghers, and those paint­
ings will be shown In the exhibition, 
will add In tores t to It.
During PggemUOr thore will be an 
exhibition of paintings and prints by 
Anders Zorn, tho greatest Swedish 
artist of tho last century, Zorn Is 
roprosented In the permanent collofc 
tlon In the Institute by bis portrait 
of Andrew Carnegio, Thore will bo 
over 30 painting» In the exhibition 
and all of them are coining from eol; 
lections In Sweden and from Mine 
Zorn. During the period of thin ex­
hibition the department of fine arts in 
co-operation with tho Musoum will 
(Continued 011 Pago Two,)
Celebrate Father’s 
Day November First
ARRANGEMENTS UNDER 
WAY FOR 1924 THISTLE
Under the leadership of W. IT. 
Wheeler the ‘'Thistle" will be best 
edition ever published.
According to the rapid start in 
preparation for the publication this 
year’s Thistle will be the best edition 
ever published. W. II. Wheeler, the 
editor,’ has been very busy the pasi 
few days in giving out contracts for 
the various departments of the jour­
nal. The contract for the engraving 
was given to the Canton Engrnvlng 
Co. of Canton, Ohio. Mr, Wheeler 
has also been busy lately in helping 
the engravers make the beautiful 
campus views which occupy the first 
few pages of the "Thistle". The 
printing contract was given to the 
Zolgler Printing Co. of Butler, Pa. J
B. McCloy, the photographer of last 
year, will take care of the photog­
raphy of this IsHiie. Class groups and 
organiatlzon pictures will soon be 
taken. The Senior pictures will start 
about the middle of October. The 
exact date will be announced later. 
Mr. Wheeler has already appointed 
two capable men as editors. The first 
appointed was C. P. Proctor who will 
edit the Fraternity Section. The 
other is P. I. Winters who will take 
care of the Senior Section.
Second Annual Father's Day 
At Carnegie Promises 
Varied Program
We again aro beginning to think 
and plan for tho Second Father's Day. 
which will bo November 1, tho day 
•of the Western Maryland football 
game. In about a week, a circuii ur 
letter from Dr. Baker to the fathers 
will be distributed among the stu­
dents. Eaéh sludont Is acked to send 
this letter home. It is hoped that 
all tho parents- may be readied this 
way and acquainted with Father’s 
Day. The entertainment for the 
fathers will be on the same order as 
last year. All arrangements for 
Father’s Day are being iMdo by the 
Intor-fratei-nity Council.
The first Father’s Day at Carnegie 
took place hist fall. It was an en­
tirely .new Idea, but the enthusiastic 
response of the parents showed: it 
was what they had long desired. 
There was something for tho fathers 
to do every minute of the day. In 
spection of the Ixuiildlngs, the foot­
ball game, dinner at tho Commons, 
and a play in the Little Arts Thea­
ter constituted the activities of the 
day. It. was a great day for the Dads. 
They saw everything of importance 
on the campus and left Carnegio well 
pleased with the school their som> 
and daughters were a part of.
Continued From Page Four)
NO FOOTBALL DANCE TO BE 
HELD ON NIGHT OF W. & J. GAME
j There will be 110 football dance In 
the Union from nine to twelve on Sat­
urday night after tho W. J. grimo, 
Tho ^Collegiate Imps will not play and 
j there will bo no assessment of $1,25 
No Carnegie patrons are expected 
and a large turnout Is not In the leant, 
desired. Tho affair will not be we,II 
managed and no financial benefit can 
possibly accrue.
Candor compel« us to state that the 
omission of this dance is due to the 
fact that the W. & J. game is not 
playoi»at home. However, there will 
bo other football dances later in the 
season.
TARTANS BEAT 
TOLEDO, 54-0 
IN FAST GAME
Visitors Unable to Halt the 
Steam Roller Tactics of the 
Skibos Lead By the Scrappy 
Captain Newman
FUMBLES ARE COSTLY
By Chnd Foller.
In a ono-sided game the Plaid foot­
ball team defeated the University of 
Toledo's gridiron warriors at the Tech 
Bowl last Saturday afternoon. After 
the first few minutes of play it was 
evident that the score would ho In 
the neighborhood of the forties. Car­
negie got away to a good start ami 
scored two touchdowns in tho open­
ing period, Goodwin tallying both of 
them and Bastlan kicking tho oxtm 
points. Tho visitors wore permitted 
to gain only five first downs; four 
of theso were duo to forward passos 
and theso four wero rolled up iu the? 
last half.
One of the outstanding features of 
the game was the end running of Max 
Bastlan, who patterns nXtor tho great 
Robertson in this department. Dono- 
hoo, who playod most of t.lio Inst, hair 
at quarterback, showed a bit of 
broken fiold running such as tho 
Plaid’s followers have not soon this 
year. The Plaid's interference for 
those oncl runs has shown great im­
provement sinco tho Dayton game. 
Last 'Saturday there were two and 
somotlmos throe 111011 who stuck right 
with Bastlan and made thoso loutf 
i*uns successful.
Another featuro that always 
brought tho stands to their feet was 
tho criss-cross, it will bo romoin- 
borod as the play In which tho erui 
runs behind the II110 and rooolvos tho 
ball from the fullback, skirting tik> 
opposite ond for consistent galnn. 
This Is probably the play which op­
posing teams are warned and coacho«# 
most about, yet Its suddenness and 
(Continuod 011 Pago Throe.)
Prof.Wurts Chairman 
On Student Welfare
Former Head of Electrical 
Eng. Dept. Retires
Alexander Jay Wurts, Uesoard» 
Professor of Electrical lOnglneerlng. 
Is retiring from active duty at (,’ar 
noglo at the ond of tills yoar. Pro­
fessor Wurts was the first jnwtn to bo 
appointed to tho staff of tho Car- 
noglo Toehnlcnl 'Schools, and *T 
been In service for eighteen years.
Professor Wurts came here to bn • 
head of tho Department of Klodrlcnl 
Fnglneerlng, and held that position • 
until 11120, at which time he took up • 
his present work as Research Pro 
feasor. At that time Professor Worf<\- 
the present head of the department, 
succeeded Professor Wurts. A lar^u 
part of the development of the Cbf 
lego of Engineering is to he accred­
ited to Professor Wurts, especially 
the work In Electrical Engineering.
Professor Wurts has contributed 
greatly to tho advance of the Elec­
trical Engineering world, and ban 
spent ills entire life in its study. ¡Io­
wan graduated from Yale In I88Ì’.. 
after which ho took a post-graduato 
course at Stovens' Institute of Tech­
nology, and received his M. E. de­
gree. Following this work he stud­
ied under Professor Kohlratisch of 
the PolytechnJum at ITanovor, Ger­
many. Not being satlsfiod yot with 
the amount, of education he bad re­
ceived, Professor Wurts entered th/* 
apprenticeship course of tho United 
States Electric Lighting Company of 
Newark, N. J., Jn 1880. A short while 
later he became manager of tho Julian- 
Storage Battery Company of Camden. 
N. J.
In 1887, Wurts went to Westing- 
house for work in scientific research, 
and was there for ten years. While 
at Westinghouse Professor Wurts In­
vented the Wurts Lightning Arrester 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
PUPPET WILL SMILE 
AGAIN WEEK OF OCT. 20
The Puppet greets us again the 
week of October 20 with tho disguise 
of Mid-Victorian vestments. No de­
tails have leaked out concerning the 
Inners of this strange issue, but wo 
have a suspicion that for two bite 
wo are going to be told all about Car 
nogie’s progeny and customs in Pup­
pet’s own humorous way.
The staff has been working liana 
to make this new Issue "Tho Baeft 
Numlior", one of tho most novel aijil 
original of the season. Despite tfio 
title It’s to be no slouch of an affair.
The editors are disappointed in the* 
lack of l'osponso to the1 call for men 
to write for Puppet. There aro splen­
did jobs awaiting competent wppor- 
classmon as well as Plebes, both fr? 
the editorial work and tho business 
end.
Any wishing to contribute, tura 
copy into the Puppet o/llce, C. I. T. 
Postofflce.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1924
Ä Caraerjie tartan
Published overy week by undergraduate» of tho Carnegie institute of
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student Council.___________________
Entered in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class niattor. 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Fit IO D C. SMITH.................................................................................................Sehenley 9122
AS80CIATE EDITORS 
K. I). ROSSINI T. J. DEMPSEY 1C. (I. FRAZI15R
EDITORIAL STAFF
Sara Mao Evorptt, I). A. Gardner, L. II. Harri», Harriot Morwln,
A. F. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR 
FR10D T. PIIELPS...........................................................................................Sohonloy 0102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..................................................................».................................Sohonloy 0070
V. is. SMITH....................................................................................................Franklin 5B47-J
REPORTERS
Estollo Garibaldi, Wilma Stlnor, Carol Folght, Almco Pharo, E. G.
Johnson, K. Fulmor, F. M. McClelland, C. A. Lundquist, lt. U Lepper, M.
HoHLnshoad, W. Fondi, W. Sonlcus, IJ. K. Mims.
A. E. KROGII.......................................................................'....................ALUMNI KlilTolt
Assistants...................................Rosemary MoCambrldge, IC. E. Smith, J. M. Goss
J. CHRISTOFF......................................................................................ATHLETIC EDITOR
Assistants................Margaret MoFull, J. F. Harris, J. A. O. FoJlor McWilliams
BUSINESS MANAGER 
W. M. GIRSON......................................................................................................Sohonloy 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER.........................................................................................................Sohonloy 01.22
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
I). MOSKOVITZ.............................................................................................................Hay.ol 1122
berwriltt ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, R. L. Sund rocic, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee C. Osborn, .1. 
M. Alrgòod, N. Aloxander, J. L. Bauorlo, J. I*. Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. Por­
ro ton, G. H. Carl.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for the make up. •
Tho Tartan woloomos all communications of student Interest, 11' signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows items must bo in tho student 
post olllco boforo 4 : R0 Thursday.
Tartan Oilloe—Room G-A, Industries Building. Olllco hours—Daily 12:.'50- 
1:20.
CARNEGIE
Again the question, of Tech and Carnegie is tip before us. The 
Alumni office is smarting a campaign to try to eliminate the use oil 
Tech in reference to the school. There is no particular point in re­
hashing all the arguments us to why this should be done. It lias been 
thoroughly discussed in the columns of this paper for the last three 
, years and everyone in the school, agrees that Tech should not be 
used and then goes ahead and uses it. Even the Pittsburgh news­
papers have noticed the agitation against the word and have com­
mented upon it in some of their column«. Heretofore no one has 
sponsored the good work excepting the Carnegie Tartan until the 
Alumni Office started its campaign. But no matter what sort of a 
campaign is carried on, it will do no good without the co-operation 
of everyone who has occasion to1 use tire name oil the school. When 
you consider that this applies to the students, their parents, the 
alumni, and their parents and friends, the faculty, the administration, 
the trusteos, the newspapers, tho entire population of Pittsburgh, ¡ill 
the schools who have any dealings with ns in an athletic way, and 
all their following, it can be seen that the task of changing a custom 
of twenty years is an enormous one. It cannot be done in a day, or 
even a year.
The only way in which this can be accomplished is for those most 
immediately concerned, the student body, the faculty, the alumni, 
and the newspapers NEVER to use the word Tech in regard to Car­
negie again. This is a big order. A liter all, it is an individual obliga­
tion. To begin with, all the publications at Carnegie are going to ban 
the word. Then the students must co-operate by not only refraining 
from mentioning Tech in their letters homo, but by tolling their 
parents that the word is, tabboo and why. The Pittsburgh newspa­
pers will be asked not to use the ¦word, nnd the other colleges with 
whom we have contacts will he asked to advertise their engagements 
with us as Carngie.
As we said before, it’s a big order, Let every Carnegie man and 
woman get together in aiding tho Alumni •OiTJoo to bring the name 
Carnegid into universal use ns a distinctive name for a distinctive' 
school.
THE WEEK IN THE WORLD’S NEWS
Beginning this week, the'Carnegie Tartan is going to try some­
thing new, at lenst so far as this paper is concerned, and that is run­
ning a column briefly itemizing the important happenings of the 
week. Bl.ndentM in college, excepting those whoso studies render it 
necessary, spend little nr no time in reading up on tho news features 
of. the day. Tho sporting page and the funnies take what little time 
they put on the papers.
We’ro running this column in hopes that students will spend a 
few minutes in reading it ami will at least know the important things 
that are going on. /Vs wo say, it is an experiment. Perhaps nobody 
will road it. Then, on the other hand, everyone may read it,. We 
think there is no doubt as to its worth. It can be the best column in 
the paper, if students will utilize it. Anyhow, we re going to run 
it. So far as we’re concerned, it’s a service item. It is taking the 
time of an able professor iu compiling it, and we could use the splice 
for other things if necessary. But we’ro convinced that it is a good 
thing, and want the students to read it.
We want to know what you think about it. If you read it, and 
lind it good, send in a letter to the Carnegie Tartan. If you can think 
¦of ways of improving it, send us a-note and tell us how. We want to 
make this good. After all, it’s your paper, and what you \yant will 
go into it.
Student Calendar
TODAY
General Assembly....................................11:30 A. M., Cairnegie Music Hall
Chains...............................................................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 16, 17
Chains...............................................................................8:15 P. M., .Little Theater
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17
Scalp and Blade Trophy Dance............................................9 :00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18
Football Game......................................................W. & J., at Washington, Pa.
Carnegie-W. & J. Football Dance................9:00 P. M., Washington, Pa.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25 
Football Game........................................................................Pitt, at Forbes Field
K0PPES ELECTED PRES.
OF 1NTER-FRAT COUNCIL
Tho first mooting of tho 102-1-2.1 
inter-fraternity Council was called 
by Doan Tarboll for Saturday, Sep­
tember 27, to oloet officers and start 
business for the now year. Tho oJ.ee* 
lion of oiTloora was hold and result­
ed In the following:
Wayne !<\ Koppos, president; Paul 
Bowron, vice president,, and' A. VV. 
Rrya.nl, socrotary-treasuror.
The council Is this year composed 
of representatives from .19 fraterni­
ties, | 17 of which aro voting, mid 
two non-voting members. A inter- 
fraternity conference is being hold 
this fall in New York at which will 
be representatives from every col­
lege having national Greek letter so­
cieties. The Carnegie representative 
will probably be elected in the very 
near future, as the conference is to 
be held during the Thanksgiving va­
cation period.
A Father’s Day Committee con-
SCALP AND BLADE TO
HOLD DANCE IN UNION
(Continued From Page One.)
In a fow wooks. Wo wish to know 
how many Buffalo men are la attend- 
nnoo at Tech. Tho officers for tho 
current year aro: Robert \V. Bank-
lor, president; W. 10, Render, secre­
tary; W. 11), Standovon, treasurer; 
Wesley Gian/, Initiatory master. 
There are about twenty members In 
tho Carnegio Chapter of Scalp and 
Blade, There will be a mooting Wed­
nesday noon at one o’clock in Oho Y. 
M. C. A. room.
slating of men appointed from oac.h 
fraternity will work with tho admin­
istration in making and executing 
plans for tho next Carnegio Father’s 
Day. The second meeting of the 
council'has boen called for Saturday, 
October 11. at. which, amon£ other 
thlng-s will be discussed possible 
changes in rushing rules and regula­
tions.
THE WEEK IN
THE WORLD’S NEWS
With the world series ovor we can 
again settle down to the more po­
sale headlines of general ©lections in 
England, Federal Trade Commission 
reports or the more pressing mat­
ters In our own political situation.
Ry forcing a vote, demanding that 
a select committee of tho House in­
vestigate tho action of tho Attorney 
General, Sir Patrick Hastings, in 
withdrawing prosecution in the case 
of tho Communist, James R. Camp­
bell, acting editor of tho Worker’s 
Weekly, cltargod with inciting His 
.Majesty's forces to sedition, virtually 
brought Great Britan's first Labor 
Government to an end, with a gen­
eral election called for Wednesday, 
October 29.
The air lias been charged with an 
election for some time and it wras 
not wholly unexpected. McDonald 
apparently fools sure of his p.irty’s 
•wiuocosB which Is causing so mo con­
sternation among tho other two par- 
tie«. Upon tho success of London 
Conference just behind him the 
•Promlor basing his hopes, but upon 
tho unrest due to the Labor leaders 
lack of succoss In the Boundary Bill, 
•tho relations with tho Soviets not 
completed and no active European 
policy, tho Conservatlones and the 
Liberals hope, to polo many votes. 
Apparently this means that Mr. Mc­
Donald Is sure of his position and 
•wants to prove it.
The Federal Trade Commission 
has tried IntormRtantly to investi­
gate tho various trusts and place 
them within their proper Himits. Just 
at this time tho announcement of 
tiie monopolatlc combine of the 
Aluminum Company of America,
comes with particular political flavor
because of the linking of the name
of Andrew Mellon, Secretary of the 
Treasury, as one o£ the chief stock­
holders.
The Commission finds that tho 
Aluminium! Company or America,
through itself and subsidiaries has 
'a practically complete monopoly of 
the production or aluminum in the 
United Statos; that it and its asso­
ciated corporations aro guilty of 
price discrimination between con­
sumers, and that methods oP the 
Alumjnruiin Company, of America ap­
pear to disclose repeated violations 
of a cons cm t degree which had been 
entered into under the Sherman 
Anti-Trust Act.
Any corporation that pays consist­
ently as high dividends as tho Alum­
inum Company has ceased to bo 
for the public Interest. The esti­
mate of dividends on $18,000,000 out- 
standing stock last year was about
10,000,000. Tills expose, while po^ 
litical In character just now, ompha- 
slcos the need Jikst a bit more of 
Federal Incorporation and more rigid 
Federal control.
NIGHT STUDENTS ENTITLED
TO RECEIVE COPY OF TARTAN
Night students who paid the op­
tional five dollar activities fee v.hen 
they registered are entitled to receive 
weekly a copy of tho "Carnegie Tar­
tan”, which comes out every Tuesday. 
Call any Wednesday or Friday even­
ing between 7 and 9 at the Locker 
Key Room for copies. This room Is 
located in the basement of the Cen­
tral Building, between the postoflice 
and the book store. One will be re­
quired to show his Athletic Season 
Book to recelvo a copy of the paper.
“Y” Campaign Returns
Show Student Support
If one could Judge a party by the 
iiittorances of its candidates, thou 
John W. Davis would bo our choice. 
In ono of Ills speoches In West Vir­
ginia ho Hays. "Wo aro Americana 
first of all and party men second1, 
Tho motto for ohicti and all of us 
should lie not 'my party, right or 
wrong/ but 'my party when she Is 
ri.mht, and some other party when 
she In wrong.’" This should b.> in­
jected Into (.villi’ school children so 
thoroughly that wo might got away 
from voting and adhering to a party 
merely becauHe that.was tho way our 
forefathers voted.
The political situation this past 
wo ok ha ft evolved* around what would 
happen if there wore no majority In 
tho electoral ciollogo, Front a groat 
many expert aourc.es, ‘opinions would 
lead us to lad leve that no candidate 
will get iho nocosaary 2(10 votes. If 
this wore the case, then according 
to the Twelfth Amendment to tho 
CoiiHtltfulion, tho eloòtlon goes to the 
House. The three candidates having 
the highest number of votes are 
voted ap'on by tho members—each 
Stille casting one vote—and a ma­
jority or 25 would bo necessary. As 
tho party lines stand in the House 
now, unl'e.ss there Is a general halt­
ing, no majority could be obtained, 
whereupon the Senato would choose 
a Vice President and with no Presi­
dent elected, ho would become tho 
Chief Executive. The chances are 
in tho Senate that Wheeler or Bryan 
would be chosen in preference to 
Dawes.
A. S. C. E.
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, a graduate of 
the University of Michigan, now a 
consulting engineer in the . city of 
Pittsburgh, gave an interesting ad­
dress to the members of the Student 
Chapter of the American Society of 
Civil Engineers, on Wednesday. Octo­
ber 8th, concerning the failure of a 
concrete bridge.
Mr. Ferguson allowed that the com-
That's That
Let’s all get behind A1 Mlnetti and 
his aids at tho W. & J. game with 
some real cheering. We have the 
ability to eheor, so let’s demonstrate 
it. Many of us aro going to Little 
Washington, but It would be easier to 
count the ones that aren’t. When wo 
get there let’s organize and make 
them think they are In old Schenley 
Instead of at home.
I believe that wo can beat both 
Pitt and W. &.J. If everyone will come 
out and help the team with some uni­
fied cheering. Tills can only be ob­
tained by the co-operation of every 
person in the stands with the cheer 
leaders. Don’t- be bull headed and 
quit just because there Is a mistake 
made, everyone makes them once in 
a while.
ARRANGE SERIES
OF EXHIBITIONS
(Continued From Page One) 
hold an exhibition of industrial art. 
This will be similar in scope to the 
one held each year by the Metropoli­
tan Museum in New York. Tn Decem­
ber the Institute will have an exhibi­
tion of paintings by Eugene S'peicher, 
who, it will be recalled, was awarded 
second prize in the twenty-second in­
ternational.
Early in 1925 there-will be a city 
planning exhibition. Because of the 
¦work of the citizens committee on 
city planning and the various phys­
ical improvements that are taking 
place in this, community, this exhibi­
tion will be a most timely one. No 
efforts will be spared to make it the 
best exhibition of its kind ever held 
in this country. About the same time 
as the city planning exhibition there 
will be an exhibition to demonstrate 
how murals are painted. It will in- 
cludo large scale marals by Frank 
Brangwyn.
Late in January a group of paint­
ings by Italian artists will be shown. 
These paintings have been selected 
from the fourteenth International ex­
hibition at Venice which has just 
closed.
Then there will follow an exhibi­
tion of early American portraits, and 
an exhibition of paintings by Auto 
Carte, the young Belgian artist whose 
paintings In the last two, Internation­
als aroused so much Interest, and who 
was awarded an honorable mention In 
tho twenty-second international. Tn 
Fobruary a group of paintings by 
Savely Sorine, the Russian painter, 
will bo shown. Two portraits by him 
in last year’s International wore tho 
features of the Russian section.
During November the International 
galleries at the Institute will ho oc­
cupied by tho annual exhibition of the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh and 
during March tho photographic sec­
tion of the Pittsburgh Academy of 
Seionco and:Art will hold 11.« annual 
photographic naion.
ARTS SCHOOL FRESHMEN 
ELECT CLASS OFFICERS
The Arts Freshmen have already 
organized and aro planning to make 
tliia class tho most successful In the 
history of the school. Their enthus­
iasm la shown by their early election 
of officers.
The final election, after a revote for 
president and vice president was 
taken to settle a tie for both olfices. 
Is as follows: President, Herbert
Evans; vice president, Wilhelmlna 
Mdrsden; secretary, Christine Coch­
ran; treasurer, Theodore Moore; sen­
ate representatives, Milored Hess and 
Albert Sebastian.
A meeting was held by the Arts 
Junior8 to elect a treasurer to suc­
ceed Donald Morrison who will not 
return to Carnegie this year. Arthur 
Ropp was elected to fill this position.
bination of old cement, inefficient 
pouring and the use bf sand and 
gravel containing the S03 radical, 
was sufficient to cause rapid disin­
tegration of the bridge and result in 
a heavy repair bill.
The speaker also brought out the 
interesting fact that some of the best 
concrete in the bridge had been 
poured in very cold weather.
NOTICE!
Special For W. & J.
Carnegie Tech students will sell badges, 
megaphones and everything desired for the 
game Saturday. Wait and patronize them. 
They will have the best of everything at the 
lowest price.
Every loyal Tech supporter will be wear­
ing one of the new souvenir badges. Watch 
for them
Authorized by Student Council 
October 7, 1924
The early returns of the Y. M. C. A. 
Membership Enrollment are very en­
couraging. A number of sections 
have reported 100 per cent member­
ship and as yet, there has been none 
lower than 05 per cent. The commit­
tee has worked very diligently and 
the co-operation of the students has 
been greatly appreciated. There Is 
no doubt in the minds of those in 
charge of tho enrollment that the goal 
will bo reached by the time this paper 
has gone to the press. The commit­
tee Is urged to hand In their reports 
ns soon as possible so that a definite 
figure may be determined.
With something to work with the 
“Y” will be able to add to its list of 
activities and benefits. Its influence 
will be felt in a number of different 
ways upon the campus. The attend­
ance at chapel last week greatly en­
couraged the “Y” authorities who 
have charge of the chapel program. 
They wish to announce that Dr. C. 
Wallace Petty of the First Baptist 
church will speak at chapel Thursday 
and everyone is cordially invited to 
attend.
The "Y” cabinet meets Sunday 
night In conjunction.with a group of 
cabinet membors from other colleges. 
Together with "Shorty” Miller, Stat? 
Student Secretary from Harrisburg, 
these men constitute the officers of 
the Western Pennsylvania Student 
Council. An interesting program has 
been planned and the advancement 
of the "Y” on the campus will be dis­
cussed.
j FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE ]
GEN. ASSEMBLY THIS
MORNING AT MUSIC HALL
After the battle this Saturday, when [ 
the Presidents In Little Washington j 
are to receive their first taste of big i 
league stuff, it will be the turn of the 
Pitt Panther to have his claws 
trimmed by Doctor Skibo, et al.
Pitt and Carnegie have always had 
a great deal of rivalry. Perhaps this 
feeling was fostered by the attitude 
of amused Intolerance which Pitt stu­
dents assumed toward the little 
school on the hill. It seemed so fun­
ny, that a little upstart of a school, 
not yet In Its teens, should attempt 
to compete with a university as old 
as the city itself. As the Tartans 
grew stronger year by year, the Pitt 
students became amazed and then an­
gry. And since It only takes two to 
start a quarrel, the deplorable battles 
culminating in 1919 resulted.
Last year, for the first time, the 
Plaid was victor over the Blue and 
Gold.
The series of parades and celebra­
tions that followed are a matter of 
history. If is also a matter of his­
tory that in all this merry making 
there was not a bit of “rough-stuff”. 
The Pitt student body took its defeat 
as gentlemen and sportsmen. No ali­
bis were offered. This in spite of the 
fact that the statistics of the game 
were very favorable to Pitt. They 
lost and they took their medicine. It 
is to be hoped that -we were as good 
winners as they were losers.
This year we will again meet Pitt 
on her home grounds. There will 
therefore be no parades or snake 
dances in accordance with the old 
custom that visitors at any game al­
ways leave the field for the home-stu-
(Contlnued From Page One) 
dies, will favor us with a few new 
ones. Everyone knows Obie and what 
is to be expected of him. He will be 
accompanied by Grace Brodenilc at 
the piano and Rod Van Atta playing 
the banjo.
The Collegiate Imps will give some 
jazz orchestral selections. The Imps 
are, of course, well known to all Car­
negie students.
Miss Maggio of the Music Depart­
ment will conclude the entertainment 
with several songs.
A pep meeting in charge of head 
cheer leader’iU Minettl, is to conclude 
the assembly. Graduate Manager 
"Buddy’’ Overend and Assistant 
Coach Bob Waddell will make short 
speeches conceralng our chances with 
Washington and Jefferson next Satur­
day. Phil Rassbacli, manager of the 
trips, will make the final announce­
ments concerning the transportation 
to Washington. A few cheers and 
songs led by Al will close the assem­
bly.
| dent body. In deference to us, Pitt 
will also abstain from' demonstrations 
during the intermissions between 
l halves. At every home game this 
year Pitt has given us the honor of
a cheer. The Pitt student body ac­
cepts us at our face value. The col- 
lege-generatlon that loked upon Car­
negie as an upstart is gone. There 
Is no need for us to assort ourselves 
any more. We are no Iofeger * par 
venus. WE HAVE ARRIVED.
It will be a sorry day when the stu­
dents of the two institutions do no 
longer feel the importance of defeat­
ing the other school. Rivalry helps 
to weld the student body together 
within its own sphere. At the same 
time, unless that rivalry is distinctly 
a friendly one, it will prove a boom­
erang. Pitt and Carnegie shall never 
be united. Each has a work to do 
and is doing it well, but it should, at 
the same time be remembered that 
rivals are not necessarily enemies.
Last year we successfully passed 
the crisis, but even then there were 
students among us, who failed to ap­
preciate the situation. THE NAME 
OF CARNEGIE MUST BE KEPT 
SPOTLESS. In the eyes of the pub­
lic, every Carnegie student represents 
the institution. Let us act according­
ly. We expect to win. So did Pitt 
last year. We may fail as they did. 
But win or lose, let us be sportsmen. 
Now altogether:
"Oh, me; oh my;
Won't we black that Panther's eye? 
Won’t he holler, won't ha wail, 
When we twist that Panther's tail? 
“COME ON CARNEGIE, LETS GO!J 
BEAT PITT! 11II”
Yours, for the Victory of Carnegie.
NIGHT REGISTRATION
HITS NEW HIGH MARK
(Continued From Page Ono)
The largest registration is in Indus­
tries, over 1700 taking advantage of 
the shop and building courses.
There is no doubt but that In years 
to come, if the present growth contin­
ues, special facilities will have to be 
provided to take care of Night School 
activities.
CAL LUNDQUIST ELECTED
MUSICAL CLUB MANAGER
(Continued From - Page One.)
Anyone or groups of more than one 
who or which think or thinks he or 
they can out on a.stunt of a caliber 
which is standard in the line of the 
Musical Clubs stunts, should see L. 
P. Stimmler or L. H. Harris prior to 
next Sunday, and arrange for a hear­
ing on the day of Plie Smoker, Other 
arrangements may be made on tho 
day of the smoker if necessary but 
advance notices are oreferred.
It is intimated that tliero will be a 
trip of a very reputable nature in 
the near future, prior to the Christ­
mas holidays, and this means that 
the men will have to get startea in 
the work. The Clubs are going to be 
present at the Tech Night at Calvary 
Church Sady and Walnut, Sunday 
evening October 19, and will sing sev­
eral numbers after the service. It is 
suggested that the students keep that 
evening open for this affair.
THE ONLY
VOL.XXIN o.NN4 
CAREGS VoRT
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbe3
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea­
sonable prices on calling cards, dancc 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one..—Adv.
First Church, of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 PJ M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
1Grace Reformed 
Churcli
Dithridge and Bayard Streets $ 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau,. .Pastor. |
Bible Class ...............................9:45 j
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 4 
League of Youth at 6:30 P. M. {
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
The 
modernized 
servants 
of thought
Made in the U. S. A. by 
THE WAHL COMPANY, Chicago
Can.iiHitu Factory .
THE WAHL COMPANY, Ltd., Toronto 
iLinafi¿turvrs of the Wahl Ercrsluirfi and tkt Wahl All-Metal Fountain Pen
Eversharp and Wahl Pen are modem, per­
fected instruments for recording thought.
Six new features—we mention specially 
the non-clogging rifled tip, quick reload­
ing and interchangeability of parts—make 
Eversharp more convenient and dependable 
than ever before.
Wahl Pen through the improved all- 
metal construction has increased ink ca­
pacity, strength to resist wear and abuse, 
and the beauty good taste demands in 
personal articles.
Eversharp is priced $1 to $45—Wahl 
Pen $5 to $55.
The Ds[ew
Melile in duplicate designs for matchcd seS
PERFECTED

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREË
PLAID ATHLETICS&
PLEBES DEFEATED 
AT STATE COLLEGE
But Score of 24-7 Does Not 
Show Real Strength of 
the Two Teams
Jimmy Anderson’s Plebe team trav­
eled to the lair of the Lion Cubs in 
old Nittany mountain last Saturday, 
and after much clawing, scratching 
and fighting received the short end 
of a 24 to 7 score. This was the 
first game for the State Freshmen, 
and the reports that come from Cen­
ter coaimty say that they looked 
mighty sweet in their first game in 
collegiate competition.
The Tartans registered their only 
touchdown on a most unusual play, 
McGrath, State fullback, kicking 
from behind his own goal line, got 
off a poor kick, the ball failing to 
cross the goal line before going out 
of bounds where it was recovered 
; by Johnson, right guard for Carne-' 
gie Tech, and declared a touchdown.
The Plebes ¡could gain very little 
ground through the heavy Nittany 
team, so they contented themselves 
. with playing a strong defensive 
game. They did this so -well that 
the Center countians were only able 
to make two touchdowns by employ­
ing straight football tactics. Their 
other scores came when Slamp ran 
60 yards after recovering a fumble, 
and when McGrath intercepted a for­
ward pass and dashed SO yards for 
a touchdown. The State Frosh 
missed all trys for point after touch­
down; The playing of Langfitt and 
Captain Weaver at the terminal po- 
. sitions saved the Tartains from a
.........R. G..........
........R. T..........
.........R. E..........
...........Q............
.... L H.........
Lundgreen ........R. H____
McGrath ________F.............
Touchdowns--------MoLinn, Lundgren,
Slamp, McGrath, Johnson. Point aft­
er touchdowns—Johnson. Substitu­
tions—State: Lesko for Lewis, Dan­
gers eMi for McLinn, Houserman for 
Lundgren, Scott for Mahoney, Paulie 
for Slamp. Roepke for Lesko, Fish- 
bein for Neff; Carnegie: Grossklos 
for Moorehead', Fitzgerald for Gross­
klos, McClelland for Langfitt, Venger 
for Fishbein. Referee—Dougherty, 
W. and J. Umpire—Dallenbach, Illi­
nois. Head linesman—Lynn, Yale. 
Time of periods—12 minutes.
Compliments
of
Themo drr
Sehenley Coffee Shop 
and Delicatessen
SCHENLEY APARTMENTS 
FORBES STREET
The ideal place for your 
theater party.
We handle the finest of im­
ported and domestic food stuffs.
Just the tilings you need for 
your next dormitory party.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Sehenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
ARTS SCHOOL RIFLE RANGE
IS OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS '
The Rifle Range on tho top floor of 
the Arts Building will open this week, 
beginning October 14, 1924, for club 
members and any other students who 
are interested in shooting on the rifle 
team. Come up any evening between 
4:30 and 7:00 except Wednesday, or 
on Saturday between 9:00 and 12:00 
A. M.
Men interested in shooting on the 
rifle team this season should report 
for practice as soon as possible.
I
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
more decisive defeat. The lineup: 
State Freshmen—24:
Carnegie Tech Plebes—7.
Slamp .....................L. E........... Weaver
Greenshields ...LT..................... Allen
Hartman
Hastings
Bard ___
Mahoney 
Krall ... 
McLinn . 
Lewis ..
..........L. G................ Comaok
..............C......................... Nelif
.. Johnson 
.. Marshall 
.. Langfitt 
. Sebastian 
Moorehead 
Sohounescy 
......... Hess
DO YOU HAVE YOUR WASH-JEFF TICKET?
Elsewhere in this issue is a detailed account of the Wash-Jeff trip in 
! which full explanations aro given regarding the securing of student tickets, 
train tickets and time of departure and return of the special trains. This 
j outburst of mine is just a reminder that every student should secure a 
j ticket at the Graduate Manager’s Office without delay so as to create a better 
n aud more enthusiastic spirit around the campus. Talk up this trip with 
n your friends. It is by far the most important trip of the year in many 
j ways and every student at Carnegie should be all “hopped*’ up about it. 
¡The members of the team are in the right frame of mind for a gruelling 
I struggle. They have received new and puzzling plays to spring on the 
Presidents, and are working with might and main this woek to bring vic­
tory to dear old Carnegie. Don’t forget that the members of the team are 
I students here the same as every other student, and that they can sense the 
spirit of the student body in general. A tremendous amount of good can 
result from the right kind of encouragement to the players. Make them feel 
that you are with them to the last ditch. TALK UP THIS TRIP!
THREE TRAINS TO
WASH-JEFF ON SATURDAY
(Continued From Page One;) 
tween our Plebes and the W. & J. 
Freshmen. This is the first year that 
W. & J. has had the Freshman rule 
and everyone is anxious to see what 
kind of a team they put in the field. 
Immediately after the preliminary the 
big game will start. It will be a 
thriller from whistle to whistle, and 
remember we want nothing less than 
a victory.
Railroad tickets may be purchased 
at Buddy Overend’s office all this 
week or at the Union Depot Saturday. 
If you buy them at the depot ask for 
tickets for the Carnegie Tech Spe­
cial.
Just a summary of the last few 
games. Four years ago we defeated 
W. & J. G-0. The next year the score 
was W. & J. 14, Carnegie 0. The fal­
lowing year it was a tie, 7-7. Last 
year we were nosed out by a score 
of 9-7. Carnegie in the past has out- 
cheered W. & J. It can be done again 
this year. On to Little Washington!
N. M. FENCIL.
DO WE WANT BOXING AT CARNEGIE?
Several years ago the Tartans boasted of a fine boxing team which held
its own in matches with the best teams in collegiate circles. In recent
years, however, the sport has been allowed to die out, due no doubt to the
lack of suitable facilities. Now that we have a first class gym and expect
to have adequate facilities for practically all indoor sports in a short time, 
there is a movement on foot to re-establish boxing on a firm basis. "Dusty” 
Micuta and Burget are sponsoring the idea. Graduate Manager Buddy Over­
end has stated that if enough men can be interested in the sport he will 
make arrangements for an attractive schedule, a coach, and anything else 
that will be necessary. We would suggest that everyone interested in boxing 
get in touch with Dusty Micuta or Burget and talk things over, or failing 
to do that, see Buddy Overend and let him know how you feel about the 
proposition. Do this at once. We should have a boxing team by all 
means.
THE FRATERNITY 
OF h USI NESS
Berrín now to form the nHsoeintionn nnd hnbilB tlmt will nerve you when you enter tho huainouH world. A bnnlc account, nitide from the tnn- jrlble vnhie, furnliihefl experience and contacta which will operato to your ndvnntaRo in Inter years.The peruonnl Intercut of Mellon of­ficers in the. financial welfare of deposito™ ha ono of the oulntnndinii ohnracleriBtica of tho inBtltution. Our experience and bnsIneBB judg* ment are at your uorvlce.
Capital and Surplus 
$13,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
WHQEYS
*AJter every meal^
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a 1-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well.
Good for teetb, , breath and digestion.
ABOUT THE PLEBE TEAM
Suffering their second straight defeat and yet having to win a game, the 
Plebe football team is coming in for criticism from several sources. This is 
the natural result of the fact that the Plebes during training camp held the 
varsity to very low scores in the various scrimmages and were highly touted 
by the newspapers for that reason. This criticism is not fair. We must not 
lose sight of the fact that since school has started several of the most prom­
ising Plebes are not eligible to play on the team. Crum, Young, Holmes and 
a couple of others are in school, but are taking non-degree courses. Dover- 
spike has gone to Pitt, while Meilziener is attending Kiski to make up some 
back work. Those men were the big guns for the Plebes at training camp. 
Coach Anderson is having his troubles developing a winning combination 
from the material that was left, but is doing as well as anybody could. 
The Freshmen face a difficult schedule, and need encouragement on every 
hand. We believe they will come through with some creditable victories be­
fore the'season is over, so let’s offer all the help we can.
THREE BIG GAMES IN FOUR WEEKS
Three of the biggest rivals the Tartans have to face this season will be 
within a month, starting with the Wasli-Jeff encounter. Pitt is played tho 
following week, while ou November 8 the Plaid will travel to State College. 
There is much conjecture regarding the outcome of these important battlos, 
but the opinion is slowly crystallizing that we have an even chance of knock­
ing off these rivals, barring unexpected Injuries. However, too much should 
not be expected, for we have virtually a green team compared to that of last 
year. Besides, so far the opposition met has not been of such high caliber 
as to warrant any undue elation over the victories. Reports from Stato Col­
lege are that the Nittany Lions have a powerful team this year, and .that by 
the time they meet the Plaid they should bo at their best, Pitt demonstrated 
last week in their game with West Virginia that they aro by no moans weak. 
They also should be at their best when the Skibos meet them. W. & J. 
defeated Grove City 25-0, a team Pitt was able to defeat only 14-0. So it can 
be seen that the Tartans are in for four strenuous weeks.
BUDDY OVEREND WANTS 
ALL MANAGERS TO
REPORT FOR MAIL
Tho managors of all teams aro re­
quested to report to the Graduate 
Manager’s olllco each day for the pur­
pose of securing mail addressed to 
them. The managers have boon neg­
lecting to do this recently with tho 
rosult that the mail accumulates 
there. Some of this mail is very im­
portant, and should be called for at 
once. Graduate Mauager Buddy 
Overend wishes tho managers to ad­
here strictly to this rule in the future.
SECOND ROUND MATCHES 
ON PROGRAM THIS WEEK
IN A LIGHTER VEIN * * * *
What is the difference between a “Slieik" and a perfoct lover?
We won’t attempt to answer tho above question, for wo don’t know.* * * *
However, it is quite well known around the training quarters that tho 
varsity football team has on its rostor a perfoct lover.
Inconceivable, you say, but it is true.* * * *
At least, the man in question admits it himself.* * * *
All summer long lie has beeu giving instructions in the art of love- 
making. His classroom was Bert MunliaH’a office in Margaret Morrison 
Building. A good setting, we’ll say.* * * *
> Tiny Nesbit was an apt pupil.* * * *
Bill Donohoe has received instructions, and has profited therefrom.* * * *
Bert did not need any. Purl’did not profit. Maybe I did.* . * * *
There were no classes on Sundays, as the perfoct lover hied himself 
away to East Liverpool, situated somewhero in Ohio. We suspect that ho 
tried out his teachings there, for he himself lives In Canton.* * * *
Our hero is tall, good-loolng and plays end on tho football team.
No, it isn't Mefort or Goodwin, nor yet Powrle.« * * «
We won’t mention any names, but his Initials are—* * * <¦
CHESTER HABLE. ________________
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
A
XCOLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
TARTANS BEAT TOLEDO
54-0 IN FAST GAME
(Continued from Page One) 
the efficiency of its execution make it 
difficult for the opposing team to diag­
nose.
The Ohioans showed some good 
form in Bpots, and demonstrated this 
fact several times by holding the Tar­
tans within ten yards in four downs. 
The Toledo ends deserve a great 
amount of credit for the game fight 
they put up in spite of the odds.
A peculiar play happened in the 
third quarter when Toledo threw a 
pass, a Tartan batting it into the 
hands of one of the visitors who fum­
bled and fell towards the ground. As 
he was falling the .ball rolled across 
his back and Joe Christoff, who had 
just been substituted for Donohoe 
snatched it before it hit the ground. 
After a bit of debating on the part 
of the officials the ball was at last 
given to Carnegie.
At the start of the second half, 
Donahoe was substituted for Bastian 
and did most of the carrying during 
the third period. He and Beede tak­
ing the ball down to the twenty-four 
yard line from which Kable, on two 
successive criss-crosses, made a 
touchdown. The score at this point 
was 27-0. At this conjuncture Toledo 
made one of their first downs on a 
forward pass. Trying the same thing 
on the next play gave the Plaid an­
other tally as Newman Intercepted 
the pass and ran forty-five yards to 
the goal line.
During the opening minutes of the 
final period Donahoe Intercepted a 
forward and got off to what looked 
like another goal but he was stopped 
after thirty-five yards by the only re­
maining Ohioan separating him from 
the goal line. On the next play New­
man tossed to Joe Christoff who 
planted the ball well over the line. 
The pass covered about twenty yards 
and made Joe run his best to snatch 
it out of the air on the five-yard line.
Hable took the ball over from the 
twenty-four yard line and Newman 
kicked the extra point. The final 
tally was made when Powrle, playing
his first game of the year for the Tar­
tans, took the ball on one of those 
productive end-around runs and 
dashed across the goal line. The ex­
tra point resulted from a fumbled 
placement kick when Newman 
grabbed the ball and tossed it to 
Vogt. The game ended 54-0.
The end of the game aaw only one 
of the regulars in, this being Capt. 
Newman, who played a fine game all 
the way. Hable made the skirting of 
right end by the visitors close to an 
impossibility, and Newman played 
the game of his life. His punting 
was all that could be desired and he 
accounted for three goals after touch­
down, missing only one. On defense 
he seemed to be everywhere.
The team worked with a greater 
degree o'f co-ordination than they 
have previously; there were, however 
quite a few fumbles which would have 
probably resulted a little differently 
if we had been playing a team of 
higher caliber.
The Tartan substitutes should be 
commended on the way that they 
Btepped into the regulars’ places and 
carried on the advance through the 
final quarter, piling up a higher score 
than was made in any one of the first 
three periods.
The lineup:
Carnegle-Toledo Lineup.
Car. Tech—54 Toledo—0
Goodwin............ L. E....................Kubbler
B. Kristof......... L. T. .....Trumbull
Anderson........... L. G...............Harrison
Manby.................. C...................Marlhugh
Yoder.................. R. T...........................Dunn
Hable.................. R. E.........................Reilly
Bastian.................. Q............. Bechtol
Newman (C.).. L. IT. ....... Domhoff
Weternb2rger. .R. H... ,'D. Kasmalor
Beede.................... F..................(C.) Stick
Score by periods:
Carnegie ...........,...14 0 13 21—54
Carnegio substitutions — Donohuo 
for Bastlan, Harmon for Wertenber- 
ger; Guthrie for Yoder; J. Christoff 
for Donohoe, Powerie for Goodwin; 
Cbalupa for B. Kristof, Belviske for 
Manby, Warren for Beede, Myers for 
Anderson. Toledo substitutions — D. 
Kasmaier for Kuebbler, Czlusta for 
Stick, Bartlett for Harrison, Kuebbler
Our old friend, "Rod” Van Atto, 
was the first wiunor of a secoud round 
match In the annual fall tennis tour­
nament. Van Atta made a persistent 
effort to lift the cup iu '22 and ’23 
but was defeated just before he 
reached the goal. This year it may 
be a different story. He is a top- 
heavy favorite to cop tho honors and 
the cup.
Obstacles, however, block Van At- 
ta’s path. “Bill” Kemmery, who re­
turned to Carnegie this year, is an im­
proved player and should go as far 
as the finals in the tournament. "Ted” 
Moessner and George Baldwin must 
also be considered as potential win­
ners. .
Three extremely tough first round 
matches were played last. week. 
Moessner barely defeated Pott.icord, 
4-6;, 6-2; 6-2. ( The winner forged 
ahead vwhen Pettlcoril weakened af­
ter he had won the first set 6-4. Strum 
defeatod Sclioenborger in a three sot 
match 2-6; 6-2; 6-3. With a steadier 
baclc-hand stroke and improved over­
head play> Sclioenborger would have 
won easily. Strum, after dropping 
tho first sot 6-2, played his opponent’s 
weaknesses and soon forged ahgad 
and won out. . Another tlireo set 
match proved the undoing of Hooper 
who was defeated by Toner 4 6; C-3; 
6-3. This probably was the hardest 
match played last week. Van Atta 
advancod to tho third, round by de­
feating Smith 6-1; 6-3. Smith pre­
viously defeatod Boedlo 6-2; 6-0.
With tho tournament narrowing 
down to a select fow, matches of tho 
best callbor may be oxpoctod this 
week. The feature match of the UFHY 
ond round will bo hotweon Hard I and 
Kommory.
S'ummary:
First Round—Toner dofoatod Hoop- 
or, 4-G; 0-3; f if 3.
Sandbery defeated Boax, 6-2; 6-2.
Smith dofoatod'Boedlo, 6-2; 6-0.
Hard! dofoatetl Bornadl, 6-2, 6*2,
Perry dofoatod Bright, 6-3: 6-0.
Strum dofoatod Schoonborgor, 2-6; 
6-2; 6-3.
Moessnor dofoatod Pdttlcord, 4-G; 
6-2; 6-2.
Second Round—Van Atta dofoatod 
Smith, 6-1; 6-3.
HOW OUR OPPONENTS 
STAND IN GAMES SO FAR
One way of shedding some light on 
tho doings of our big rivals is to ex­
amine tho scores they make In tlioir 
battles previous to the time when we 
moot them. For that reason wo aro 
going to publish tho results of tlioir 
gamos from time to time. From tho 
scores givon below It will bo seen 
that thore aro no soft snaps in the 
group for us.
Wash-Jeff
Wash Joff 10—Genova 6.
Wash-Jeff 19—Bethany 13.
Wash-Jeff 2(5—Grove City 0.
Pitt.
Pitt 14—Grove City 0.
Pitt 0—LaFayetto 10.
Pitt 14—West Virginia 7.
Penn Stato.
Stato 47—Lebanon Valley 3.
State 51—N. Caroline Stato 0.
Stato 26—Gettysburg 0.
U. S. Marines.
Marinos 33—Catholic U. 0.
Marines 13—Vanderbilt 13.
Notre Dame.
Notro Damo 40—Lombard 0.
Notro Dame 36—Wabash 0.
FIVE DIFFICULT GAMES
REMAIN ON FRESHMAN
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Octobor IS—Wash-Jeff Froslimon, 
there.
Octobor 25—Pitt \Freshnien, Forbes 
Field.
Novombor 1—California Normal,
here.
November S — Steubenville High, 
there.
November 15—Potomac Stato Nor­
mal, here.
GIRLS ORGANIZE AND
COMBINE MUSIC CLUBS
PLA1D-WASH-JEFF 
CLASH LOOMS UP
Game Saturday to Be Biggest 
Football Event in the 
Tri-State District
SELECT NAMES FOR
PLATES ON GIRLS' DORMS
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
plates aro now In Douu Brown’» ofTlco. 
If bronzo ia used there will probably 
bo very little color, and In tho cano 
of tho cast Iron an olivo groon soonis 
to ho favored.
Tho dato for tho formal dodloatlon 
is still undotorminod and many de­
tails have not boon decided upon. 
Howovor, tho girls' dormitories now 
havo tho mimos, if not yot the name 
platos, and as the latter aro rapidly 
materializing, wo feel sure that com­
pletion of the plan is near at hand.
for D. Kasmaier, Bartlett for Czlusta, 
Gullclc for Domhoff, Campbell for 
Kasmaior. Touchdowns—Goodwin 2, 
Hable 2, Newman, Beede, J. Christoff, 
Powerie. Points after touchdowns— 
Bastian 2, Newman 3. Timo of pe­
riods—15 minutes. Referee—H. A.
Bloom (Iron City College). Umpire 
—R. Mehegan (Purdue). Head lines­
man— L. Garrett (Rutgers).
(Continued From Page Ono) 
Stovo Kovak is to direct tho String­
ers this year. Mr. Kovak is well 
known as director of tho Collegiate 
Imps and of tho Mon’s Mandolin 
iClub. No doubt, such offoctlv.o direct­
orship» will do much to contributo to 
the popularity of tho oo-eds orchestra 
and* to make this ono of their most 
successful seasons.
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET .
Wo Do Shingle Bobbing.
Hats Cleaned. Shoos Shined. 
DANIEL & CICIORO 
Proprietors.
HJUXIEMBEMG
CLÖTHÜS FOR THU CÒttBGB MAN
The
Tizsv Tatf
W,
(Four cPiccc)
ITH kuickcm n sport
suit—with troimura a wick 
suit. Jij woolcnn of riirc
cimility nnd rich pnttern, 
the* popular nil ’round nuit.
*3950
Ali LUXENBERG & BORDF 
KCT NORl,ElGI PSE !RO-
, Next Showing at )
' WILLIAM PENN HOTEL \ 
) November 14 and 15 1
Our atylu inumo, book iicnt fruo on rvciiicnt
Several gridiron, strugglos in tho 
trl-stnto district have boen placed iu 
tho select “classic" group bocauso of 
tho intense natural rivalry that pre­
vails, but-none of theso can bo fraught 
with more Intorost than that between 
Carnegie Tech and Washington and 
Jefferson, which is to bo played in 
Littlo Washington next Saturday af­
ternoon.
Both teams emerged from yester­
day’s tilts in fair shape and with 
coaches of both schools probably able 
to muster full strength ono of tho 
;most brilliant battles of tho your is 
likely next Saturday when tho teams 
lino up at Collogo Flold, Washington.
Conch Morrow’s team will ontor tho 
tilt slightly tho favorite, but tho Tar­
tan mentors havo succeeded in get­
ting their charges to such an edge 
that thoy aro determined that tho 
Plaid colors will fly foremost after 
tho battle.
Tho Carnegie-W. & J. strugglo has 
grown until it is looked forward to as 
the big homo gamo for tho Prosidouts. 
as well as'holding tho attention of the 
fans throughout the tri-stato district. 
Tho increasing popularity of tho meet­
ing of tho Skibos and tho Presidents 
is shown by tho fact that each year 
tho attondanco has boon larger, and 
their clash holds tho record for ath­
letic events in Washington. Experts 
prodlct in advance a crowd of 20,000.
I Of tlioBo nt least '1,000 to 5,000 will 
bo from tho homo of tho Plaid.
It Is worthy of note that In tho past 
four yoars Carnegio was ablo to win 
only ono gamo from Wash-Jeff, while 
0110 gamo was tied :>hd two wore lost. 
In ’20 the Tartans grabbed off a 0-0 
victory on their homo lot. Tho fol­
lowing year thoy lost at Washington 
when sovoral costly fumbles woro 
j mndo, tho ucoro being 14-0. In ’22 
Wost;, tho groat Nogro back, saved tho 
I day for his team by catching a lucky 
¦ forward pass In tho last mlnuto of 
I play and running lirty. yards for a 
touchdown. Tho llnal scoro was 7-7, 
though Carnegio had completely out- 
plnyod Wash-Jeff throughout tho 
gamo. Lust, year the Skibos again 
outplayed tholr opponents, but a 
blocked punt guvo the home team a 
chance to kick over a field goal ami 
win !) to 7. What will happen tills 
your?
LEARN TO DANCE
—at tho—
Jacques School of Dnnclnn 
Crnlo nnd Forbes Street« 
Boglnnoni Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advancod Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lossons 
by appointment.
This Is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
rENUS 
PENCILS
pmctiintlttHuU
TpOR tho student or pro f., tho imperi» VENUS out-rivnli» 
nil for perfect pencil work. 
17 black degree«—3 copying. 
American Lend Pencil Co.
Writ« for booklet on VENtni rcncllu unii VKMllll lÜVKUI'OINTrO Mochiinlcnl 1’cncllii
HOOT MON!!
Tech-W. & J.
Football Dance
-AT THE—ugWlerwPor ygrderW
SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 18
Hours: 8:30-12
AFTER A TECH VICTORY DANCE TO TECH’S OWN MUSIC, THE 
CARNEGIE TECHSONS ORCHESTRA
Make it a point to stay over and enjoy tliis treat. Car and train service 
back to Tech late at night.
Mgr. G. C. Hallam, Tech ’14 J. C. Hallaan, Tech ’23

---------------------------------------------------

fr»ÀGÉ)FÒUftTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
&
[ tLaN NEuT 1
NEW YORK CLAN
Tho oxocutlvo. committoo of tho 
Now York Chin wore entertained at 
a dlnnor-brldgo by Mr. and Mr«. 
George L, Bunion» at tholr homo, 5J. 
Watchung avenue, Montclair, Now 
Jeraey.
Tho following men and tholr wives' 
woro tho guests of tho evening: M.
L. Patterson, Curtis Colwell, J. M. 
Gutor, W. M. Sheldon and John Boal
Prizes for tho bridge gamo woro 
award od to Mr». Boal, Mr». Bholdon 
and Mr. Patterson.
Tho next oxocutlvo oommlttoo moot-. 
Ing will ho hold at tho homo of Mr. 
and Mrs. Paterson, Bogato, Now Jur- 
soy.
Tho N(jw York Clan will hold its 
scheduled party on November 14 at 
tho Cafo Boulevard, Fortloth streiit 
off Broadway. Tho affair will ho a 
dinnor «lance.
Tho president, Mr. J. A. Cameron, 
115 Park avonuo, Tuckahoe, N. Y., 
will furnish all additional Information 
desired.
ST. LOUIS CLAN
Attention is called to the change 
in the directory. The secretary of the 
St. Louis Clan Is Mr. M. A. Zeller, 
while tho canh is hold by Mr. Nelson 
P. Rico.
Tho St. Louis Clan is ono of the 
most active among the list and es­
pecially does tho Carnegio Tartan 
give honorable mention to Mr. Teller. 
This Carnegio man is continually 
working for his Alma Mator whenever 
opportunity offers, and when ro op­
portunity offors, lie makes n!s own.
Owing to tho work of Mr. Teller 
and the St. Louis Clan tijje St. Louis 
papers nro now giving a great deal 
more space to tho affairs of Carnegio 
than many of the dailies nearer homo.
CELEBRATE FATHER'S
DAY NOVEMBER FIRST
(Continuad Prom Pago Ono.)
Fathor’B Day is an ovont. whlch Is 
rapldly growJng into an instltution 
at Camoglo. It iLolp^ to brlng tho 
studont, tho teacher and tho piíront 
into a more porl’ecrt. understandlng, 
Tho contact may be briol!, bul. II. Is 
enough for onch ono tx> realizo tho 
posltlon of tho othor. The maln ob- 
oct, of Kathor’a Day, aftor all, is to 
lonable Dadi to ílnd out iuiat what tlii« 
Carnoglo Instituto of T/Ochnolo’tty ia.
Mining Dept. Offers 
Special Night Course
Coal and Its Utilization Title 
of Series of Lectures
A special course of lectures on 
'Coal and Its Utilization,” arranged 
primarily for coal salesmen, will be 
given during tho. current night college 
year at Carnegio Institute of Tech- 
nology, beginning next Friday night. 
Registrations for tho course will alsb 
ho held on tho opening night Jn tho 
Registrar's olllco from (¡:45 to 8.
Tho lectures, numbering aro 
scheduled for Friday evening from 8 
to I):.' 10. Tho course will bo conducted 
by tho College of Engineering In co­
operation with tho Pittsburgh station 
of the Uni tod States Bureau of Mines, 
and the advisory board of coal-mine 
operators and engineers.
Tho courno Is a new feature of tho 
program- of practical work at the local 
Institution, constituting a further step 
In the policy to adapt Its facilities to 
tho needs of special groups in tho i 
Pittsburgh district. Tho lecturers for 
tho course will Include II. N. Havon- 
son, consulting mining engineer, and 
C. 13. Loshor, assistant to the presi­
dent, Pittsburgh'Coal Company; A. C. 
Fioldner, superintendent, Dr. H. F. 
Yancey, nsfioclato chemist, and H. W. 
Brooks, fuel engineer, United States 
Bureau of Mines; C. .1. Ramshurg, 
vice president, tho Koppors Company; 
W. L. Affclder, assistant to the presi­
dent, Hill man Coal and Coko Com­
pany J. D. A. Morrow, vice president 
and general manager, .Toy Machine 
Company; Dr. J. B. NatluuiHon, assist­
ant professor of physics, and Dr. C. 
II. Fettke, associate professor of 
geology, Carnegio Institute of Tech­
nology.
General topics, some of which will 
ho dlncussed in series, will include 
general roviow of tho coal industry, 
olemonts of chemistry as related to 
tho coal industry, dements of physics 
as roalted to tho coal Industry, the 
manufacture and utilization of coko, 
the origin of coal, coal rosources and 
markets of tho United States and of 
foreign countries, preparation of coal 
for market, combustion of coal, and 
markotlng of coal as related to trans­
portation and quality.
A number of coal companies in tho 
Pittsburgh district have already ar­
ranged to send tholr imlosmon. to take 
tho course.
R. O. T. C. OFFICERS
GET APPOINTMENTS
MONONGAHELA ALUMNI 
IO MEET IN CHARLEROIM.M.C.C. ALUMNAE 
ARRANGE PROGRAM
Ye zld Telerley 
Lurcl
Tho place whore all good fol­
lows moot and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special a Re plate 
eluding donnert.
dinnor, in-
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
WELCOME TO ALL 
TIIK OLI) ANI) 
ÉEW FELLO WS 
AT TECH
Tech Barfoer 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
memhor of the ton-mon team to ropro- 
sent tho Th|rd Corps Area In toll Na­
tional Iti Ilo Matches at Camp Perry, 
Ohio, Though his team was defeated 
by tho Seventh Corps Area mon, ho 
was Instrumental In holding tho lead 
till Ilio ond.
Craig Restaurant
Tho place, whore all tho follows 
MAT
412 CRAIG STREET
ClonnlnnPrcHtdnu
vle Telerley' 
vgelor to.
•120 80UTH CRAIG
Next door to gents' furnishers. 
TAILOR FOR THE STUDENTS 
Wo do Hrst-olass altering for 
reasonable prices. 
Prompt Delivery Service. 
Sehenley 1G38 
Dyolng Repairing
Tir PB.DXF Ttmp/t, 
CbiMso, Hi in ais 
HOLAD) IlD & ROCHE, 
Architect.*.
iDfnwn by Hush Fcniss
"Building 
a 'Pitturi'”
T-TEUII the architects envisioned it picture, saw tlic modern oflicc 
buildins in terms of the great arc of the Middle A«cs— and the 
result is a demonstration that the utilitarian structure, the modern oflice 
building o( commerce may be as picturesque as it is practical. Vision, 
imagination; courage and practical ingenuity in stylistic adaptation 
have enabled the architects of this country to astonish the world with 
their achievements of today and their promise of tomorrow. 
Cert-.'inly modern invention—modern engineering skill andoiyaniia- 
tion. will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture ot the luturc.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
A meeting of all Carnegie Alurnni 
and former students ol tho middle 
MonongaheJa Valley district has 
been arranged to ho held at the 
Charleroi Blks Club, Charleroi, Pa„ 
on Tuesday evening, October 21, al 
7:00 p. m. The meeting will take 
the form of a "Got-tbg^i.her Dinner,” 
and .-ill Carnegie men and women 
of Monongahela, Monessen, Belle 
Vernon, Donora, Ellsworth, Cliarle- 
roi und vicinity are uryed to be 
present. A charge not to exceed 
$1,00 will 192 made for tho dinner.
Sometime back (two or three years 
ago) there was in existence an or­
ganization known as tho Mononga- 
hola Valley Clan oi Carnegie Alumni. 
During the life of the Clan a nnm- 
hor of Interesting meetings were 
held, permitting the Alumni and for­
mer Htudonts to come together and 
to get to know eacli other better. Un­
fortunately the number of Alumni in 
the district at the time was so small 
that'after allowing for the unavoid­
able aJbsences, the attendance at 
meetings was not large, enough to 
maintain the necessary interest and 
the Clan ceased to function.
Since tho time of tho old organi­
zation however the number of Car­
negie Tech Alumni in this Monon- 
gahela Valley district has been ma­
terially increased and a great many 
to whom the idea of resurrecting the 
old Clan has been broached, have 
expressed themselves as being whole­
heartedly in favor of the ¿proposi­
tion. Accordingly a self-coiiBtltuted 
committee, with the interests of 
their Alma Mater alone at heart 
have- undertaken to arrange the 
nhove-mentloned meeting at which 
the subject' may be discussed and 
djeak’able action taken by evei*y one 
concerned.
An effort has been made to notify 
every ono by letter, but undoubtedly 
a great many who aro entitled to be 
present at the dinner at the Char- 
lorol Elks Club on October 21, have 
been missed. Eveiyone therefore 
who sees this announcement In The 
Tartan should consider it as his 
own personal invitation to be pres­
ent and is urged to.bring with him 
or her any friends who also have 
nn interest in Carnegie. All con­
templating attending the dinner are 
requested! to notify Conrad A. Stone, 
Box ¡191, Charleroi, Pa., stating how 
ninny reservation are desired.
Ambitious Outline of Work 
For Coming Year to be 
Rigorously Followed
Fathers Wilt Have All 
Campus At Command
Elaborate Preparations For 
Entertainment Made
Only a little over two weeks i 
main before our second annual Fath­
er's Day will have rolled around. Tho 
time In getting short so It will be nec­
essary for you to wrllio home td D'ld 
real soon and explain just what the 
day is lor and have him make ar­
rangements to come1 here to spend a 
day with his potential engineer.
Tho day promises to be one of un­
usual Interest slneo tho Inspection of 
the school will he followed by a foot­
ball game whlen has already created 
quite a hit. jf Interest because of‘tlic 
way the visitors havo handled some 
of tholr opponentii.' WoM»»rn Mary­
land will conx. hero primal for a vic­
tory over our l’laid banner and Scar- 
lot, Jersey«. Bring Dad down and lot 
him help us root to a victory.
As was done last year, tho commit- 
too which hnq Just been appointed 
announces, that a supper will be 
served In the evening which will be 
followed by a play in tho Little Thea­
ter.
Tho new officers for the M. M. 
Alumnae Association aro given be­
low. It is worthy of note that not 
a few members of the class of '24 
are on the executive committee. This 
is in keeping with tho policy of the 
association of eaich year admitting 
tho new graduates wholeheartedly 
into the fellowship.
The program as shown here shows 
that the Maggie Murphs are not go­
ing to be idle. The two Orst evonts 
of the program have, of course, been 
held successfully already. We are 
listing them because we wish to 
show the program, in its ambitious 
entirety.
The Al. M. C. C. Alumnae are sure­
ly working for tho Good of Carne­
gie.
OFFICERS
President—Gail Sellers Fettke, ’17.
First Vice President — Sue F. 
Smith, '17.
Second Vice President — Milicent 
Leech, ’15.
Seeretary-Treasurer — Bernice J. 
Kruger, '19.
Federation Directors—Gail Sellers 
iFettke, ’17; Bernice J. Kruger, '19; 
Lillian Coleman, "2^
Executive Committee.
Gail Sellers Fettke, '17.
Sue F. Smith, '17.
Millicent Leech, ’15.
Bernice J. Kruger, 19.
Lillian Coleman, '23.
Rachel E. Beatty, '18.
Miriam Bond, '24.
Florence I. Bechtol, '18.
Dorothy Grant llosford, ’24.
Charlottle Tross, '18.
STANDING COMMITTEES 
Program and Publicity.
Charlottle Tross, '18, chairman.
Mary E. Bechtel, '20.
Cora Gerwlg, ’12.
Mary, Hellig, "24.
Edna C. Smith, '09.
Lorna Williams, MG.
Membership.
Rachel E. Beatty, ’18, chairman.
Elizabeth Buchelo, '20.
Hattie G. M-errlll, ’09.
Irene Voskamp, '12.
Josephine Whitney, '22.
‘REV.’ FOUST, ’21 
IS RECIPIENT OF 
INSULL MEDAL
General Electric Co. Honors 
Carnegie Man For Heady 
Work in Rescuing Fellow 
Worker Stricken By 150,000 
Volt D. C.
FIRST TO BE HONORED
Series of Lectures
Be Given Soon
Plumbing and Keating Talks 
For Men in Industry
NEW PLEBE RULES
ISSUED BY COUNCIL
(Continued From Pace One)
110 interference with Plebes’ attend­
ance at regularly scheduled classes.
It is the duty of every Plebe to obey 
all the rules and regulations and 
Sophomores must see that the Plebes 
do not commit any errors of commis­
sion or omission with respect to the 
regulations as stated.
PROF. WURTS CHAIRMAN
ON STUDENT WELFARE
(Continued From Page One.) 
and other appliances of a protective 
nature. He was also awarded the 
John Scott Medal by the city of Phil­
adelphia upon recommendation of the 
Franklin Institute for the discovery 
of non-arcing metals.
In 1S9S lie developed tho Nernst 
Lamp for Mr. Westingliouse. The 
Nornst lamp was a great improve­
ment over the old carbon lamp, but 
has since boon replaced by tho Tungs­
ten lamp. After this discovery. Mr. 
Wurts became manager of the com­
pany which produced tho Nornst 
lamps.
Since coming to Carnegie. Pro­
fessor Wurts has been actively nuik- 
Ing Improvements In tho Hold of uie 
Electrical Engineering. IIo has found 
an electrical method for the annoal- 
ing of tool stool • stock, and now 
developing a commercial method of 
plating aluminum. Those contribu­
tions to the industry aro only a few 
of the things that Professor Wurts 
has done during his career, many 
other processes and advancements 
have been worked out and pm 011 a 
commercial basis by him.
Carnegie is more .than, r’ . ed to 
havo Prof. Wurts who has d - creat 
work for the school and the • • -trical 
engineering world, on the c."* - and
chairman of tho Student Wc-tf .re Com­
mittee.
SPECIAL COMMITTEES 
Scholarship.
Mildred P. Spencer, '21.
Jane Marlcell, ’24.
Mary O. Wight, '11.
Visiting.
L. Maud Fire, '19.
Margaret Griffin, ’21. 
l-iouise Irvin, '21.
Rnjohel E. Beatty, '18.
Fannie 11. Woodsido, '09.
Auditing.
Lenoro Rend, ’17.
Grace Patterson, 211.
PROGRAM 1924-25 
Annual Welcome Dance, Carnegie 
Gymnasium, Saturday, September 
20, 1 p. m.
Committee.
Gladys SHeppy, *24, .chairman.
Louise Irvin, ’21.
Lois McCombs, '21.
Anna HIbbs, ’21.
Jane** Markell, ¦ ’24.
Mary IEelllg, ’24.
M lid red) Spe ncer, ’211 
Annual Business Meeting and Tea, 
Faculty Parlors,' M. M. C. C„, Sat­
urday, Octobcr 11, 2 p. rn.—In 
Charge of Class of 1924.
Hostess. y 
Miriam Bond.
Aids.
Josephine Gibson,
Eleanor Riesmeyer,
Jane Markell.
Evening Bridge 'Party, Carnegie
Union, Wednesday, November 12, 
8:30 P. M.
Committee.
Ann Cote Dodds, '10, chairman. 
Madeline Meese Rowley, '10.
Lily Crosby Challinor, '11.
Mildred Knapp, ’15.
Frances V. Bayburn, '10.
Lulu Fuller Baird, '18.
Benefit Theater Party, Pitt Theater.
(Time and production to be an­
nounced later.) In charge of Class 
of 1919.
Committee.
Mary Ege Ewart, chairman. 
Margaret Wiith Towl.
Salome Stamm.
Martha Lloyd,
Anna L. McCaii d less.
New Year’s Tea, “The Little House," 
5125 Woodlawn Avenue, Saturday, 
January 10, 3 to 5 p. m.
Hostess.
Lydia Bates Glock, ’15.
Aids.
Helen Boswortli Orr, ’IS.
Alice Marshall Nesbitt, ’12.
Anno Freeman Jienklns, ’15.
Helen S,onn Crouse, ’18.
Lillian Cowan, ’23.
Theater Party, "The Little Theater," 
Play by School of Drama.
(Time and production to he an­
nounced later.)
Committee.
Leonore Rond, ’17, chairman. 
Mildred Knapp, ’15.
Florence Glafey Byers, ’17.
Rachel Maglll, *17.
Florenoe Savage Wentworth, '14. 
Rebecca Schmuckor Connor, '17. 
Musical and Tea, Recreation Hall, 
M. M. C. C., Saturday, March 14, 
3 p. m.
Hostess.
Priscilla Allison, ’23.
Clifford M. Foust of the class of '21 
has just been awarded the Insull med­
al presented by the General Electric 
Company at Schenectady, N. Y.f for 
saving the life of a fellow workman 
from death by electric shock. Foust 
Successfully resuscitated John J. Ke- 
hoe, Jr., at the General Electric En­
gineering laboratory in Schenectady 
a few weeks ago.
Foust, better known to alumni and 
instructors as “Rev.” an abbreviation 
for “Reverend”, entered Carnegie, 
from Erie, Pa., in 1915. Between that 
time and the date of his graduation 
in 1921 his scholastic career was In­
terrupted by chasing Germans along 
the Rhine and a girl in Erie. “Rev 
alono can testify to the veracity of the 
latter, hut facts have it that he served 
his country in France from Juno, 
1918, until June, 1919. During his 
third and fourth years at Carnegie 
he was a Federal Board Student. He 
was a member of A. I. E; E. and in 
his Senior year was Copp6rd0ss of 
Mho Club. Upon his graduation in 
1921 with a B. S. degree in Electrical 
Engineering he joined the engineer­
ing forces at Schenectady.
He is the first General Electric em­
ploye to receive the national certifi­
cate and medal. Quick thinking, rap­
id action, and knowledge of the prone 
pressure method of resuscitation en­
abled Foust to save the man’s life. 
The accident occurred in the labora­
tory in which he and other employes 
were working within twenty feet of 
Kelioe. The latter was testing on a 
150,000 volt, direct current, discharge 
set. The others had their backs 
turned to him, but heard the set dis­
charging, as it does across a gap in 
tho current. They noticed the dis­
charge, missed one of the five second 
intervals. When they turned around, 
they saw Kelioe lying upon the floor, 
apparently lifeless.
No reason was evident for his be­
ing thrown nor did he remember 
when they brought him back to con­
sciousness, of anything he had done 
to cause the accident. Quick -action 
was nocessary, otherwise lie probably 
would havo succumbed In a few mln- 
utes, because 110 pulse nor respira­
tions could be detected until-the’ men 
had worked three ’minutes.
On November 12, 13 and 14, a ser­
ies of lectures will be given under 
the auspices of the Department of 
Industrial Relations of which C. B. 
Connelly is the director. They wiil 
be held simultaneously in the Union 
and in Room 104, Industries, from 
8:30 untii 5:00 and are known as the 
three day institute for the plumbing 
and heating industry of the State of 
Pennsylvania. All are invited to at­
tend this course, for which a nomin­
al fee of .$1.00 is charged;, but It is 
given especially for men not attend­
ing Carnegie so that miutch valuable 
material can be presented to men 
engaged in the industry. The lectur­
ers on the i/rogram arranged by *ns 
Dibble are: Pofessors Hower, Lang,
Thomas, Leighou and Dibble.
For the benefit of the men who 
have enrolled', a play is to be put 
on in the Arts Theater on the first 
night, and on the second they will 
be conducted about the Institute to 
see the night men at work in the 
shops. There wilil also be an exhibit 
in plumbing, heating and ventilating 
mamjifacturers of Pittsburgh.
This plan of helping outside men 
in this way has excited considerable 
favorable comment. From present in­
dications, the enrollment may be 
from 150 to 200, but if there should 
be a greater one, all men can be 
taken care of. This project consti­
tutes only a beginning, and- it is like­
ly that it will be followed by lec­
tures in connection with other in­
dustries.
vELETtziE
WE POINT WITH PRIDE TO: 
1.
2.
5.
The Recipients of Scholarships, 
Clifford M. Foust, »21, recipient 
of the Insull Medal.
The Football teams.
The N. Y. Clan (the first to be­
come active this year).
The New Uniforms of The- 
Cheerleaders.
News is essential to a newspaper. 
The Carnegie Tartan is a newspaper. 
News concerning alumni is scarcer 
than the proverbial hen’s teeth. Q. É. 
D. Come to your own conclusions. 
Your experience tells you that Car­
negie is not a place where time Is 
plentiful. We cannot expect our re­
porters to nose out what happens in 
Tulsa, Oklahoma. The only way for 
us to get the news is that some Car­
negie alumnus, or alumna, send in 
the news. And by the way, sènd it 
while it is news. The Carnegie Tar­
tan is a newspaper not a chronicle.
Alumni by the hundreds have been 
buying tickets for the Pitt game. Of 
course, everyone 'in the vicinity that 
carf will be going to the W. & J. game. 
The ancient enemy will meet with 
Carnegie next Saturday. Purchase 
your cough drops noto. You will be 
hoarse before it is over.
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
’23.Dorothy Grant I-Iosford,
Florence Hill, '24.
Annual Benefit Card Party (Bridge 
and "SOO”), Saturday, April 18, 
2:30 p. m.
(Place to be announced later.)
Committee.
Mary E. Bechtel, ’20, chairman. 
Lillian Coleman, ’23.
Irma Friedman, - ’20.
Luey Hart Bixby, ’20.
Cora Gerwlg, ’12.
L. Maud Fire, '20.
Eleanor Riesmeyer, '24.
Phyllis Mc-Marlin Fetzer, '19.
CAMPUS WEEK 
May 14, 15 and 16. 
Committee.
Mary Heilig, '24, chairman.
HatUe G. Merrill, '09.
Grace Patterson, ’23.
Bernice J. Kruger, ’19.
Lorna Williams, '15. 
Commencement Tea—In Honor of 
Graduating Class, Recreation Hall, 
M. M. C. C., Saturday, June 6, 
3 p. m.
Hostess.
Gaili Sellers Fettke, '17.
Aids.
Sue F. Smith, .’17.
Millicent Leech, ’15.
Bernice J. Kruger, ’18.
Lillian Coleman, ’23.
Florence I. Bechtel, 'IS.
Miriam Bond, ’24.
Dorothy Grant Hosford 
Rachel E. Beatty, ’IS.
Charlotte Tross, ’IS.
’23.
Salome Stamm, 
Louise Irvin,
Aids.
'19.
BRANROSS $9
FROM the collej man's point of view clothing must be 
tied right. Halfway merurs simply don’t get by.
The new John Ward Shoes for Pall ar ded right—just the 
styles and lethera collej men want.On Display By 
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
At Skibo Inn 
October 17 and 18
nveivs .Skoes
IHCOMOHATDP ----'»HG.HI.fAT. Off»
Stores in New York. Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia Addres** for Mail
Order», 121 Duane St.. New York City
Arthur Lubin,Dramat 
With Famous Players
Expects to Return to the City 
of Smokes Soon
Arthur Lubln of Hollywood, Califor­
nia has just completed a six weeks 
engagement at the Playhouse in Los 
Angeles where he played the juvenile 
lead In Mary Roberts Rinehart’s play 
“The Bat”. He is coming East soon 
with tho Famous-Players-Lasky to 
work on a film in New York City and 
expects to stop over in Pittsburgh a 
few daj's to pay a visit to his Alma 
Mater and see some of his many 
friends in this section.
Mr. Lufbin attended Carnegie from 
1919 through 1921 but required one 
more year to complete his work for 
graduation when he quit school. He 
hails originally from Santiago, Cali­
fornia, but since leaving school has 
ibeeh Mt Hollywood. Hero he has 
been quite successful as a motion pic­
ture actor. Ho was recently seen in 
Pittsburgh In the motion picture ver­
sion of “The Woman on the Jury”.
Lubln is lending man now In the 
Pasadena Community Players which 
ea one of the foremost Little Theatre 
Organ!/,ntions in America. He has 
starred in several of their productions 
and made his greatest hit, on their 
tours up and down the coast, in 
Liliom. .
Lubin stays with Dave Mudget, who 
is also a Carnegie man that took a 
Painting, Illustrating and Design 
course here. Mudget designs motion 
picture scenery and has just com­
pleted the scenery for one of Lon 
Chaney’s productions which is being 
filmed “The Phantom of the Opera”.'
During the last summer Lubin and 
Herb Polesie spent about three weeks 
together touring the High Sierras and 
upper California.
| Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co. /
Member Federal Reserve 
I System.
’> Capital...........................$300,000.00
! Surplus -------- $300,000.00
| Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
! SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
; FOR RENT
Damon—
“What was the matter with Professor Henry this morniriar? I've never seen him so peeved. He seemed 
to he boiling over.”
Pythias—
“Doillnfi over la frood. He wns. Didn’t you notice 
why? The old boy had mis­laid his Eldorado pencil.”
ElÄbO
the master drawing pencil
17 IrmJ,---.11 ¿.-.I..
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG 
Jerry, Manager.
ARE YOU
“Trying to think up a 
Pretty Speech?”
C. M. STAUFT |
3901 FORBES STREET g! 
Artists’ and Engineers’ Mate- H \ 
rials, Stationery and General 9 j 
Supplies for Students. j
1
CT^ch Flower Shoj
4527 FORBES ST. nsm crai
Dress Suits To Rent
The full dress and tuxedo suits we have for RENT have 
been tailored with a ripe understanding of the
“College Man’s Requirements”
The garments fit precisely, but comfortably, and have a 
desirable measure of dignity. Head to foot outfitters.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341PITTSBURGH
Hours: 8:30-5:30
Woodlawn Pharma y
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
