Council Rejects Chance 
To Aid Flooded Dutch
by Richard Franklin
Before Council began its business last Wednesday it listened to 
Mr. Edward Fatula, who has been an exchange student studying in 
the Netherlands on a Fullbright scholarship, request that Student 
Council solicit funds from Carnegie students to aid the disaster
stricken Dutch. Student Council*----------------------------------------------------
felt that although the request had 
many merits, never the less, be­
cause of the Campus Chest pol­
icy, it could not justifiably allow 
A formal solicitation for such 
funds.
It was felt that if solicitation 
of such funds was permitted it 
would establish a precedent which 
would lay the student pocket- 
book before many equally worthy 
funds.
If there are those of the stu­
dent body would like' to help, they 
mail their donations to: Holland 
Relief Fund, 74 Wall St., New 
York, N. Y.
Approval Assumed
Even though the school execu­
tive board has not as yet approv­
ed the addition of organizational 
members to Student Council, Mr. 
Christensen is proceeding on the 
assumption that the board will 
eventually authorize his action. 
He has made his committee ap­
pointments to cover all tht peo-
E&S Offers 
Graduate Aid
As part of its expanding re­
search and educational program, 
the Association of Iron and Steel 
engineers is establishing a Fel­
lowship for graduate study and 
research at Carnegie Tech.
The purpose of the fellowship 
is to select and train outstanding 
men for engineering in the iron 
and steel industry. Candidates 
must have outstanding technical 
ability and demonstrated capacity 
for leadership.
The fellowship carries a stipend 
of $1500 annually for a single 
man, or $2100 for a married man, 
plus tuition and allowance for 
equipment, for study toward ad­
vanced degrees.
Applications for the academic 
year 1953-1954 must be sent to 
the Dean of Graduate Studies by 
March 1, 1953.
BUSY
Scotch ’n Soda crewmen hoist 
the curtains for last year’s show. 
See page 3 for details on this year’s 
crew calls.
pie who will be officially on 
Council when the last amend­
ments to Council’s constitution are 
approved.
All major committees have been 
so appointed that the President 
next semtster will have experi­
enced people to fill all the import­
ant posts. His committees are: 
Budget—Sebulsky, Murphy; Plans 
and Programs — DeVido, Stedry;
[Continued on page 2]
Scholarship
Application blanks for the 
1953-1954 Tri-Delta scholar­
ship are now available in the 
Dean of Women’s office. All 
women on campus, independ­
ents and sorority women, may 
secure these applications be­
fore February 20.
Chapel Features 
Turkish YMCA 
Official Next Week
Homer Kalchas, teacher and 
boy’s secretary in YMCA school 
in Istanbul, Turkey, will be the 
chapel speaker on February 24, at 
11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts Little 
Theater. He is in the United States 
on an international visitation fel­
lowship for six months observa­
tion and cultural exchange.
He was active for many years 
as a teacher of languages in 
school in Istanbul before joining 
the staff of YMCA. He is the edi­
tor of a Greek Orthodox Religi­
ous magazine, a member of the 
sports committee of the USO, a 
member of the school board, and 
active in many community or­
ganizations in Istanbul. Mr. Kal­
chas is a graduate of Roberts col­
lege in Turkey, and studied three 
years in Hartford Theological 
Seminary in Connecticut.
Scimitar Plans 
Activity Board
At the February 3 meeting of 
the Scimitar society, men’s sopho­
more activity honorary, plans were 
discussed for the formation of a 
student activities board.
This board is to act as an in­
strument for widening student in­
terest in activities and to provide 
liasion between interested students 
and the activities.
The group discussed the fact that 
many students, who are potential 
activities men, do not know ex­
actly how to proceed if they wish 
to join an activity.
The board, to be composed of 
Scimitar members, would arrange 
a meeting between an interested 
student and one or another of the 
Scimitars to discuss the activities 
in question.
Although the details have not 
been decided, with the cooperation 
of the student organizations, the 
plan appears to have great promise 
of filling the gap between the stu­
dents and the activities.
BEAUX ARTS WINNERS 
Shown above are Bonnie Shields and Jack Saro who wore the 
winning costumes to the 1953 Beaux Arts Ball. The theme of the Ball, 
the annual dance of the Fine Arts college, was contrast.
Tech Debaters Cop 3rd 
In Slippery Rock Meet
Carnegie Tech debaters got their tournament season off to a good 
start by winning four of six debates to place third in the Gavel 
tournament at Slippery Rock State Teachers college last Saturday.
The affirmative team, Jack Belkin and Noel Gillette, and the 
negative pair, Jim Langer and Jay*------------------------------------- —
Claster, each won two rounds 
while dropping one.
The topic argued was, “Resolv­
ed: That the federal government 
should enact a compulsory fair 
employment practices law.”
Under newly-elected president 
Jim Langer the debaters hope to 
make this an outstanding season. 
Other major tournaments to be 
attended include those • at Kent 
State, Case Teclf, Lehigh, Brook­
lyn college, Temple, and Mary 
Washington college.
The Carnegie debaters also are 
sponsoring their annual Tartan
Paradise Regained—
Prodigal Student Returns to CIT
Editor’s note: Despite popular protest, the registrar’s office has re­
admitted Mr. John as a student at this institution. We publish here­
with his own account of the return to Carnegie.
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
Several months ago I bid you all farewell and left beautiful Car­
negie Tech for parts unknown, never expecting to return to this place 
except possibly to witness the graduation of my brother Guglielmo 
from the world famous school of roots and herbs. But after enrolling 
as a student of Peruvian philology* 1
at Our Lady of Steubenville uni­
versity I was beset by a tremend­
ous homesickness. I felt that I 
must return.
Consequently I wrote to Car­
negie for readmission, and after 
filling out unnumbered multicol­
ored forms, I received notice to 
come back for the second semes­
ter.
The Trip Home
As my 1908 model, elliptical 
wheeled street car ground its pain­
ful way up scenic Forbes street, 
past quaint residential districts 
and that disgusting building be­
longing to the U... .ty of P... .gh, 
my heart beat faster to see wisps 
of smoke from -the eternal fire of 
knowledge burning serenely in the 
urn atop Machinery hall.
Shortly afterward I stepped from 
the car, ascended a flight of steps, 
and gazed across the boundless 
ooze of the Cut. I knew I was 
home at last.
All is Well
I wrapped my cape about me 
and set of resolutely across the 
bog, the. wind biting into my face 
as it blew off the dismal marsh. 
I saw no humans, only a few stray 
scientists passing as they moved 
toward town to buy supplies of 
weightless cords, ideal gases, and 
perfect insulators. Otherwise the 
place was deserted.
I continued along alone until I 
approached Administration hall. 
As I passed there was an ominous 
rumble, the doors swung open, and 
a vast herd of. elderly and semi- 
elderly persons sped forth toward 
Skibo, grim, determined, and si­
lent. I knew then that things were 
all right. It was the department of 
history.
Registration
Feeling comforted, I hastened to 
the office of the alchemy depart­
ment, where I picked up the nec­
essary red tape for my registra­
tion, including schedule cards to
be filled out in septuplicate accord­
ing to a master card which states 
blandly that three courses which 
are absolutely necessary for grad­
uation cannot possibly be sched­
uled because of conflicts.
I shrugged my shoulders at this 
news and rearranged my courses 
so they would fit (how this ele­
mentary solution escaped the 
scheduling office when they made 
the master card, I do not know; 
perhaps unreconcilable conflicts 
are put in as part of the Carnegie 
Plan so the student can put his 
talent to work reconciling them). 
I then continued on my way down 
the line hopeful that everything 
would be all right.
Cards, Cards, Cards 
I passed desk after desk. At 
[Continued on page 3]
English Professor 
Gets ChiU Grant
Richard A. Wells, assistant pro­
fessor of English, is one of three 
national college teachers appoint­
ed to do post-graduate work in 
general education at the Univer­
sity of Chicago in 1953-54.
Mr. Wells has been a faculty 
member at Carnegie Tech for the 
past eight years. He has been in­
strumental in promoting the in­
tegrated social relations program.
tournament in April under the 
chairmanship of Jay Claster.
New members are still welcome 
whether or not they have had 
previous debating experience. 
Anyone interested in finding out 
more about the activities of the 
club should contact the coach, Mr. 
Richard Oswant of the English de­
partment, or Dick Christensen, 
team captain.
Metals Society 
Honors Prof
William O. Philbrook, associate 
professor of metallurgical engi­
neering at Carnegie, has been ap­
pointed chairman of the advisory 
committee on metallurgical edu­
cation of the American Society 
for Metals. The appointment i* 
now in effect and will continue 
through October, 1953.
Professor Philbrook’s duties 
will be to advise the board of 
trustees on ways by which the 
society may assist in educational 
work at the college and post­
graduate level. In addition, the 
committee also functions in the 
field of promoting the interest of 
qualified secondary school stu­
dents in science and engineering 
as a profession.
Professor Philbrook is co-author 
of “A Survey of Slag Control 
Methods” which received a spe­
cial prize in the 1944 McKune 
award contest of the open hearth 
committee. Iron and Steel Divi­
sion, AIME.
Campaign
The annual campaign for the 
Ujiited Jewish fund will begin 
on Carnegie Tech’s campus 
following the worker’s meet­
ing on Thursday, February 26, 
at the Union. This fund-rais­
ing project is a part of the 
local young adult division of 
the United Jewish fund cam­
paign. For more information 
contact Estelle Herlick or 
Manny Stawkin.
VOL. 46—No. 15 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., FEB. 17, 1953

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesdaf, February 17, 1953
Korean Situation Presents 
Numerous Knotty Problems
by Professor Robert Schwarz
During the past two weeks conjectures have been made in 
many quarters regarding a new development in the Korean war. 
Some observers expect an early use of Chinese Nationalist forces 
on the Korean front. Others **see raids on the Chinese mainland 
by Chiang Kai-Shek’s tropps. Still others predict a blockade of 
the China coast by allied naval and air.units.
Strong Allied Objections 
Every one of these suggestions has been met with strong ob­
jections, partly by our allies, partly by American military experts. 
The opposition of the South Korean government to an extension of 
the Chinese civil war on Korean soil, the weakening of Chiang’s 
army on Formosa by a deployment of Nationalist columns in Korea, 
the jeopardizing of Hong Kong, the danger of incidents which 
may lead to a general war—all these considerations are important 
reason for the caution which the Eisenhower administration seems 
to exercise.
This caution, imperative though it is, vis-a-vis the hope of 
millions of voters that the new administration bring the Korean 
war to an end by vigorous means, is doubtless a great worry 
to the government. The policy of hesitation under Truman and 
Acheson, rejected on November 4, 1952, if continued by the 
present regime, would be a source of frustration to large seg­
ments of the population.
Offense Means Troops 
The dilemma of the government is rendered worse by this fact: 
If it by-passes the Chinese on Formosa and tries to win the war 
by a general offensive, the bulk of the work will have to be under­
taken by American forces, pending a more rapid build-up of the 
South Korean army; this again is in contradiction to the arguments 
used in the campaign, namely that too many Americans have al­
ready been sacrificed. Like so many Presidents of the United States 
in the past, General Eisenhower must begin to realize how difficult 
it is "to reconcile the meciless facts of life with the expectations and 
hopes of the public.
All this is not _ a criticism of the administration but rather 
an expression of this conviction: that the problems in Asia which 
confronted the Truman administration are, and of needs have to be, 
the same problems which the present administration faces; and 
further, that suggestions for a “way out” of the far Eastern quandary 
are subject to the same dangers now as last year.
This does not mean that nothing new will be tried; as a mat­
ter of fact, it is reasonable to anticipate an early and perhaps 
startling new approach to the war despite the seeming diffidence* 
But there is reason to doubt whether such an approach, if it is at­
tempted, would be made at all at this time, were if not for the 
mandate of the people and a real need to adjust to the demands 
of the vote public that “something be done.”
Admiral Ludewig 
Appointed Asst* 
Metallurgy Head
Rear Admiral Joseph W. Lude­
wig, associate professor of metal­
lurgical engineering and staff 
member of the metals research 
laboratory has been appointed as­
sistant head of the department of 
metallurgical engineering, effec­
tive February 1, 1953.
Admiral Ludewig, retired from 
the U. S. Navy in 1947 with the 
rank of Rear Admiral, was gradu­
ated from the U. S. Naval acad­
emy in 1925 and received his Mas­
ter of Science degree from Car­
negie in 1933. He joined the Car­
negie faculty as associate profes­
sor of metallurgical engineering 
in 1946.
During World War II, Admiral 
Ludewig was twice awarded the 
Legion of Merit for combat, the 
Bronze Star for combat, and a Let­
ter of Commendation from the 
Secretary of the Navy.
NASSAU IN THE BAHAMAS
is traditional for collegians on 
a holiday. A lot of ocean 
swimming, tennis, golf, sun 
tan and dinner dancing fits 
into a few days at Balmoral, 
in a private, congenial Club 
atmosphere that’s different, 
fun, and just right for a mid­
semester vacation.
By choosing Easter 
you save some 25% 
Club closes April 13th 
N. Y. Office: 16 W. S3 St.
JUdson 6-3070 «. '¦'*5
Fewer Enroll 
In Spring Term
Registration for the second sem­
ester began on'Thursday Janu­
ary 29. Approximately 2,760 day- 
school students and 1.000 night- 
school students registered . on 
Thursday, Friday, and" Saturday* 
However there was a decrease of 
about 80 students in day-school 
and about 100 to 150 in night- 
school. According to Mr. W. L. 
Rogers, assistant registrar, this 
decrease in second semester reg­
istration is normal in comparison 
with last year.
Mr. Rogers said that the reg­
istration process as a whole was 
smoothly carried out, except for 
the fact that there were 250 late 
registrants. He also said that the 
$5.00 fee which had been inflict­
ed to reduce the number of late 
enrollments had not achieved its 
purpose. Since so much of the 
registrar’s time is wasted by the 
large number of late enrollments, 
the penalty may be raised.
Mr. Rogers also pointed to the 
fact that thene are 100 foreign 
students enrolled at Carnegie 
Tech, representing 34 foreign 
countries. Most of these students 
are enrolled in the engineering 
school, although there aie students 
from foreign countries in all of 
the colleges.
Council Attendance Outlined
[Continued from page 1]
Publications—Drew, Kellman; So­
cial — Seiner, Ruth; Freshman 
Regulations — Murphy, Copp; In­
tra-School Publicity — Quintal, 
Figner, Dill; By-Laws — Davis, 
Byrne; Points and Keys—Moberg; 
Parking—Goetzman, Pile—Houlk; 
Class — Organizations — Clark; 
Pep-Sounds—Straits, Hurd.
Attendance Outlined 
Mr. Christensen also» outlined 
his policy concerning the attend­
ance of members appointed from 
organizations. Since each of the 
organizations represented has one 
member on Council, the group’s 
member is allowed three absences 
before the organization loses its 
representation on Council for the 
remainder of the term of council. 
This policy is entirely reasonable 
when one considers that contin­
uity from meeting to meeting 
must be maintained, which would 
be impossible if member organ­
izations could send one represen­
tative one week and another rep­
resentative another week.
It was also pointed out that 
many organizations have sent sen­
iors as representatives, but these 
representatives could serve only a 
semester rather than a full term, 
which would normally expire 
next December. This, along with 
the fact that there will be a norm­
al turn-over in many organiza­
tions such as honoraries, should 
provide suitable staggering of new 
members sent to Council to pro- 
cide excellent continuity from 
year to year, laying the bulwarks 
for a sound organization.
Back and Forth 
Parking regulation, an issue 
which has been kicking from the 
administration to Council and
back for several years, has again 
been passed back to the lap of 
Council. It might seem it is a game 
of endurance, but the administra­
tion should realize that they will 
eventually lose this sort of game 
since Council has a change of 
membership every semester, and 
the parking situation seems to pop 
us as a new problem to each new 
Council.
In the last two years several so­
lutions have been offered, yet the 
administration has turned thumbs 
down on all of them. The main 
problem appears in the Cut park­
ing lot by the illegal parking in 
the center aisle at the school end 
of the Cut.
The best solution offered 
was to place a row of concrete 
blocks similar to thost used 
to separate the parking stalls 
down the center of the aisle.
It would not afford a driver 
the freedom to back down 
from a stall that would be af­
forded if it weren’t there. 
Nevertheless, it provides 
mdre freedom than « a row of 
cars down the middle.
Need Co-operation 
Since the parking problem 
comes up sor often, it seems 
worthy of some sort of considera­
tion, and new attempts at solving 
the problem by the administra­
tion. Council is working on it, but 
in many respects, it lacks the co­
operation of the administration. 
The result so far has been many 
disgruntled drivers who have the 
misfortune of having 8:30 classes, 
only to be permanently pinned in 
their parking spot until the people 
in the center aisles are ready to 
leave.
Your ID. CARD Means15% off
N.YO fice
On
• Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts
• Watches • Jewelry
• Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
Y:16 BOUNCE to the cWS36
byRicchaa
AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Graduate Plan
For
MASTER OF SCIENCE
And
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREES
PURPOSE
To assist outstanding BS graduates in 
obtaining their Master of Science and 
Doctor of Science Degrees while em­
ployed in industry and making a signifi­
cant contribution to national defense 
work.ELIGIBILITY
June 1953 graduates receiving BS De­
grees in the following fields:
Aeronautical Engineering 
Civil Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Electronic Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Physics
Those chosen to participate in this Plan 
will be from the upper portion of their 
graduating class and will have evidenced 
unusual technical ability. They must 
also have evidenced imaginative ability 
and possess personality traits enabling 
them to work well with others.
CITIZENSHIP 
Applicants must be United States citi­
zens who can be cleared for “Secret.” 
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY 
Washington University in St. Louis will 
participate in this program and candi­
dates for'Master of Science and Doctor 
of Science Degrees must meet entrance 
requirements for advanced students at 
this university.
PROGRAM
Under this Graduate Plan the candidate 
will work full time at McDonnell Air­
craft Corporation until September 1953. 
From September 1953 to June 1954 
candidates will work at M.A.C. from 28
to 36 hours per week, attending Wash­
ington University on an individually ar­
ranged schedule. A Master of Science 
Degree should be obtained within a 
maximum of two calendar years. Under 
this arrangement it will be possible for 
a candidate to earn approximately 85% 
of a normal year’s salary and to attend 
the university during regular semesters 
while working toward his advanced de­
gree.
COMPENSATION
Compensation will be commensurate 
with the individual’s ability and experi­
ence. Compensation growth will be on 
the same basis as the full time members 
of the engineering staff. In addition, the 
candidate will be eligible for all other 
benefits accruing to full time employees.
TUITION
Tuition covering the required number of 
units necessary to obtain an advanced 
degree will be paid by McDonnell Air­
craft Corporation.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES
Candidates will be selected by officials 
of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and 
Washington University.
DATES FOR APPLYING 
June 1953 graduates should make in­
formal applications prior to March 15, 
1953. McDonnell Aircraft Corporation 
will then forward formal applications 
which should be returned by April 15, 
1953, accompanied by up to date grade 
transcripts. All replies will receive full 
consideration and selections will be made 
during the month of May, 1953.
ADDRESS CORRESPONDENCE TO Technical Placement Supervisor McDonnell Aircraft Corporation Post Office Box 516 St. Louis 3, Missouri

---------------------------------------------------

Oniy tID6 -I77 0677 Ap:W0 A 
T1:DIHISE HISE61 I RSM :S7U BC
G tID6 -I77 t677 Ap:Wt A 3IEA16tt6! —
h:- 3AS 7Aa6 U:W1 tID6nnn r*'NiOd NOgg GUsc fccor m k
OyOo R l.fi lKm ( NC3cn P
bRo bcYO »e'' ' -c»*bRYOgf=f\) m C 30 dayswu ' y v0:1 Y.g,oOff
( ASM lgRycV (
W% 0» f WHAT? fOgg I ISHW1AS36Prmm-— V -Ith A m:I36 
likeTHAT? C 
x ’ON fiO GiOuggLOR.H7 
F.o,f UP JV OPERA fNRV! 
F.Ni NiO vvvvvvv( uvvvvvvvvvvG
rhdFiniakdlcA p o
FiRN R 
’OR»N.l»g 
yc.bO! ‘ 
”»fN g.XO
N pI1M!
Alchemist Returns 
John J. John trudges wearily toward his dorm 
* * * * * * 
Wandering Alchemist 
Returns to Old Haunts
[Continued from page 2] 
each one my cards were stamped, 
my schedule examined, and my 
papers signed. My credentials 
were scrutinized so often and so 
closely that I got the feeling I 
was being investigated for top se­
cret duty as a Skibo cook, or some 
other subversive post.
Finally I was permitted to pass 
to another room, where I was in­
vited to join the -American Insti­
tute of Taperdippers, the Interna­
tional Speleological Association, 
the Carnegie Oboe club, and a 
group which shows French movies. 
But I resisted all these tempta­
tions and continued on to pay my 
money, and have more cards 
stamped, restamped, signed, coun­
tersigned, scrutinized, and rescru­
tinized, and finally taken from me 
and put into .various cardboard
boxes, where they will probably 
remain for eternity or perhaps a 
little longer.
Skibo at Last
At the last stop I was given a 
free blotter by a sinister person in 
a black cape standing near the 
door, after which I left, once again 
a student of Carnegie Tech.
I walked past the ivory tower 
of the IA school to Skibo. -The 
place had not changed. It was as 
beautiful as ever, and still filled 
with displaced students playing 
bridge. I took a piece of coconut 
macaroon pie; the old lady in 
charge of supplying coconut maca­
roon pie placed another piece on 
the shelf; I paid the cashier, and 
walked to a table, thinking how 
lucky I am to be an alchemist at 
Carnegie Tech.
Present Tosca 
This Week
For the third offering of the 
1952-53 season, the Pittsburgh 
Opera,' incorporated, will present 
Puccini’s beautiful opera “Tosca.” 
Performances are scheduled at the 
Syria Mosque for Thursday, Feb­
ruary 19, and Saturday, February 
21, at 8:15 p.m.
The cast to be presented in the 
Pittsburgh opera offering is head­
ed by three outstanding artists: 
Dorothy Kirsten, of the Metropol­
itan Opera will sing the role of 
Tosca; David Poleri, well known 
tenor, appears as Cavaradossi; 
Cesare Bardelli, famed baritone, 
sings the role of Scarpia.
Seats are now on sale at the R. 
E. Baltz agency, Volkwein’s, 632 
Liberty Ave., AT 1-2196, also 
Gimbel’s and Horne’s. Mail orders 
are given prompt attention when 
accompanied by check and self- 
addressed stamped envelope.
App.
Tech Students 
ear on WWSW 
Opera Program
Carnegie Tech music students 
are illustrating their expert 
knowledge of operas in a very in­
teresting way. Every Sunday at 
6:15 p.m. WWSW broadcasts a 
complete opera by records. Be­
tween acts the students comment 
on the history of tht opera and the 
methods employed by the com­
poser.
Dr. Frederick Dorian, profes­
sor of music, is directing the 
project, assisted by a student com­
mittee—Frances Smolover, Rich­
ard Roy, Donald Ashworth, Rich­
ard Gerero, Mary Jane Troop, 
Sally Eisner, and Enea Caravacci.
The schedule for the operas in-
Final S’nS Tryouts 
Will Be Held Saturday
The final opportunity for tryouts for “Shoot the Works,” the 
1953 Scotch ’n Soda original production will be Saturday, February 
21, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the exhibition room in Fine Arts. 
Students interested in contributing their talents in singing, dancing, 
----------------------------------------------------?and acting should attend the try-
cludes the following: Joseph Sny­
der—February 15—“The Daugh­
ter of the Regiment”; Mark Pan- 
cerev—February 22—“La Forza 
del Destino”; Frances Smolover— 
March 1—“Norma”; Mary Wag­
ner—March 8—“L’Amico Fritz”; 
Cecele Weisberg — March 15 — 
“Ernani”; Richard Gerero—March 
22—“Un Giorno Deregno”; Rich­
ard Roy—March 29—“Parsifal”; 
Mary Ann Wilson—April 5—“Par­
sifal” (continued); Sally Eisner— 
April 12—“Manon”; Jack Brour- 
man—April 19—“The Gypsy Bar­
ron”; Margaret McCaul—April 26 
—“Elisir D’Amore”.
out period.
Since “Shoot the Works” is not 
a book show, less rehearsal time 
will be required to perfect the in­
dividual scenes.
Those students trying out for 
singing parts are requested to 
bring their own music, but Scotch 
’n Soda will furnish the accom­
paniment. Those interested in act­
ing may bring their own script, 
but there will be some on hand.
Also on Saturday, February 21, 
from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the 
exhibition room of Fine Arts all 
scene designers and costume de­
signers will sign up. This is the 
first and only opportunity to sign 
up.
.oNOVOfNO,
AERONAUTICAL RESEARCH?
THE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT 
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
EAST HARTFORD, CONNECICUT
will have a representative on the Campus on
l6p1WA1U 49
to interview students having Bachelor’s or advanced 
degrees in
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Inquire at the Placement Office for an 
interview appointment and descriptive 
literature.
.............................................................................................
@nlyTime will Tell...
THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel 
is America’s most popular cigarette— 
leading all other brands by billions! 
Camels have the two things smokers 
want most—rich, full flavor and cool, 
cool mildness...pack after pack! Try 
Camels for 30 days and see how mild, 
how flavor ful, how thoroughly enjoy­
able they are as your steady smoke!
Y:16 e6:T76 fD:a6 bAD67H
THAN ANY OTHERi***>¦ •'
CIGARETTE!
Tuesday, February 17, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S

---------------------------------------------------

Pare 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 17, 1953
¦^wl tVjf-
>i£Wis
^JBASKETyÈÀv^®
Letter—
Around and Around
Editor, the Tartan:
What’s wrong with WRCT? Why is it that a 
radio station apparently in capable hands cannot 
function as an integrated unit? Why does the sta­
tion not command the attention of the students as 
other college radio stations do? Why is there an 
apparent lack of cooperation between WRCT and 
the rest of the school?
Last fall a meeting was held and a new slate 
of executive officers was installed as called for by 
the station’s new constitution. At the close of that- 
meeting hopes were high among the members of 
the staff and executive board that the station 
would soon become a highly significant campus 
organization. A loan was obtained from Student 
Council for technical improvements. The staff 
boasted perhaps the largest student membership 
on campus. Interest in the station semed to be 
active and sincere.
Then something happened; it was not a rapid 
occurence. This sort of thing never is. The super­
structure began to fall apart while the foundation 
attempted to keep it together. The attempt failed. 
There was too much work for too few. The active 
staff had fallen to a mere fraction of its original 
value. Then the foundation began to weaken: 
too much was being done by too few. Lack of 
cooperation began to show itself everywhere. Cer­
tain goals were being achieved at the sacrifice of 
othei's; certain obligations had to be filled, others 
were being ignored.
The book, ‘'WRCT,” has a faded cover, the 
pages are becoming worn and many are missing. 
It is doubtful if even an index can be found. The 
binding is still strong, but the weak spots are 
beginning to show.
The book has not been made available to enough 
poeple; lack of something to publicize has kept 
publicity to a minimum. Yet lack of publicity has 
been a direct result of not enough people knowing 
about the book. A paradox? I think not. The 
situation is caused by lack of interest in WRCT as 
shown by the student body. Who is responsible 
for the lack of interest? The remaining staff mem­
bers? The executive board? Indeed not! The 
blame rests squarely on the shoulders of the stu­
dent body. A few have worked hard to keep 
WRCT on its feet, but lack of interest as shown 
by the student body has presented these few with 
an almost insurmountable task.
The problem is not as complex as it might 
seem. If the radio station is to continue in ex­
istence there must be a great deal more student 
interest in the station. The station is for the stu­
dents, and is dependent of their support.
Radio Station has come a long way, technically, 
since the beginning of the present school year. 
Much has been done, and much remains to be 
done. However, this is not the problem; the prob­
lem is one of badly needed student interest in 
WRCT!
Sincerely,
Jim Lacey.
\p
Editorial—
vs
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh to 
Pa TELEPHONE- SChenley 1-4557, after hours . MUseum 
1-5380 for advertising and -s ¡bscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti­
tute ol Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Editor-in-C'hiel .............................................. Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager ................................................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ... '.i............................................................................. . Dick Durstine
Sports Editor .......................................................... Frank Fegley
News Editor ......................................................... Estelle Herlick
Personnel Manager—Dick Christensen Features Editor—Bill 
Soith Advertising Manager—Stan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business Manager—Jerry Semei Circulation Manager—Joe 
Li Marca Photographv Editor—Martin Snyderman. Reporters 
—Sheila Sulli\ an. Jack Armoui. Joan Cummerton. Jane 
Sunder. Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly. Marilyn Seiner. 
Kto Winston, Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff. Cub Reporters— 
B .i ia Leonard. Pat Maue. Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwindle, 
Dorothy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robertson, Mollie 
R.idy Delores Prus. Sports Reporters—Edward Feigenbaum, 
Ro*x rt Steiger. Gene O’Reilly. Dick Eppler, Irv Shechter, James 
Gore Copy Reader—Paul Carmichael. Art Staff—Joan Brech­
in. Nelson Kelley. Dick Stahl. Photographer*—Barbara Toia, 
Dor Hand. Myron Lewis. Roger Gregory. Dick Wolfe 
ieatuies Staff—Andrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin Smith, 
Judy Storch Typist—Elayne Nord. Headline Staff—Van An- 
der. on, Pat Naugle. Dan Byers. jCopy Runner—Fred Young. 
Make-l.'p Staff- Ellroy Young. Advertising Staff—Ronald 
Gieiiwald, Vic Shiry, Mimi Stem, Joan Newman. Circula­
tion Stj. IT Ralph Antonito.
Repie ented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD­
VERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420 
YAMIv:S Ave New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered a*- second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post OflGoe at Pittsburgh. Pa., tmdet the Act of March 3, 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro­
vided for in the Act of February 28 1925
Member of th* Associated College PreM.
Engineering—A Profession?
One of the instructors over in E&S was thrown for a 
loss the other day when he overheard his little son talking 
on the telephone. Dr. X just moved into a new-house when 
one of his neighbor’s children became sick. The neighbor 
telephoned the X’s house, but Junior grabbed the phone 
first. When the lady asked for the Doctor, Junior replied, 
“Oh Daddy ain’t the kinda Doctor that does people any 
good.” ' ’ ^
Strange as it may seem, this sums up the engineer’s 
position in society today. So many people, particularly 
those who never attended college, think only of the doctor, 
dentist, and lawyer as professional men. In fact, these same 
people believe that an engineering college is no different from 
a technical school where men are taught to repair refrigera­
tors.
Many national engineering societies have undertaken large 
publicity programs to impress on the public that an en­
gineer is as much a professional man as the doctor or lawyer. 
This argument is based on the fact that a doctor only has 
four years of ‘technical’ training, the same as the engineer. 
“Why then,” they ask, “shouldn’t an engineer be placed on 
the same social plane as the MD?”
All of these arguments have one great fallacy that stands 
out like a sore nose. These professional public relations men 
have forgotten (or overlooked) the four years of college put 
in by the pre-med before he begins his ‘technical’ training. 
During that eight semester period the doctor-to-be studies the 
liberal arts and many other phases of our culture, which have 
no direct bearing on his profession (a seemingly necessary 
criteria when adding a course to an engineer’s schedule.) Now, 
while these courses may seem unimportant in our eyes, much 
of the background obtained in liberal arts is what shows the 
most after college. It’s probably this added understanding of 
the arts and not the long-winded publicity of the AMA (as the 
engineering societies claim) that places the doctor of medicine 
on the professional level.
It seems that the Carnegie Plan is probably the only 
major effort being made along the lines of increasing the 
engineer’s arts education Although a few engineering schools 
have gone to a five-year curriculum, many of the additional 
courses concern the more technical phases rather then a 
broader scope of social relations. Also, another interesting 
fact is that some of five-year schools still don’t require as 
many class hours as Carnegie Tech packs into four.
So, why don’t the engineering societies concentrate more 
heavily on improving the general plan of education for the 
future engineer by adding additional courses in the field 
of liberal arts? No doubt industry would kick up its heels 
since it is already being strangled by an engineer short­
age, but by the time it works out of this present mess, it 
will be set to cope with that minor problem. And, if the 
future slide rule wielder doesn’t think he should spend 
this much time in school, then maybe he doesn’t belong 
in engineering. We’re getting along fairly well with a doc­
tor shortage, and not only is medicine a profession in every­
one’s eyes, but there are students clamoring to get into 
medical school. The doctor of engineering also does people 
good!
INQUIRING REPORTER
Opinions Scattered 
On Math Letter
by Dick Wolfe
During the past week the Inquiring Reporter 
roamed the campus seeking opinions on the re­
cent letter printed by the Tartan concerning the 
teaching in the math department.
Donald Dennison, junior, mechanical engineer-« 
“On the whole I personally think 
the the mathematics department 
is quite good although obviously 
not free from all faults. I think 
that this department’s main 
drawback is its lack of stand­
ardization in teaching methods.
One instructor will feive his class 
almost 'all board work and an­
other wjll give lecture material, 
yet both will be given the same 
exam.
“On the good side I see that the 16 bit pile of 
pulp has been replaced by a more concise printed 
edition. This is bound to keep the freshman and 
sophomores from developing a “calculus arm” weH 
known to all of us who have at one time or other 
lugged those heavy stacks of notes with us to class.
“The head of the departments, Dr. Moskovitz, 
seems to me to have done quite a creditable job 
considering he took over the job on short notice 
when the previous head, Dr. Rosenbach, passed 
away last year.”
Charles Winick, senior, electrical engineering— 
“While I was taking courses that 
| the math department offered, I 
found no complaints whatsoever. 
However, I feel .that the reason 
for this is primarily due to the 
text books that were used and not 
to any effort on the part of the 
|| instructors. Besides being cum- 
.« bersome, perhaps the new texts 
H are a bit more complex. If this is 
so then the reason for all this 
...commotion can probably be blam­
ed on the instructors who are still teaching along 
the lines dictated by the old text. They have failed 
to supplement the new books with increased class­
room explanations of the more difficult sections.
“The math knowledge that gathered has been 
adequate to carry me through my departmental 
courses. If the math department feels that they 
can better their courses, by all means they should 
do it. However, from observing the recent devel­
opments I would say that they have regressed.” 
Alfred Cahen, junior, mechanical engineering— 
“A student* majoring in math 
would undoubtedly be more 
qualified than myself to complete­
ly answer the basic question. Ar 
engineering student, howev 
should realize the question b 
asking himself: ‘Have the course 
given to me by the math depart­
ment adequately prepared me fe. 
my junior and senior department­
al work?’ With a year and a hal 
of school to go I can only give £ 
partial opinion on this question, but I would say 
that basically, that the math department is fairly 
well integrated with the .various engineering 
branches. i
“The pure math courses offered, such as cal­
culus, gives the student a good grasp for future 
analytical problem solving, and other courses, such 
as statics and strength of materials, although they 
could perhaps be more standardized among the 
various instructors, to give the student a fine back­
ground for more advanced math.”
Phil Pre’v, iunior, mechanical engineering—“As 
. it happens, for reasons which
nd
_ny mind when I read Mr. Luth­
er's letter was whether he can trace his linage 
back to Martin—merely a sidelight.
“It would seem that Mr. Luther is entitled to 
his opinions and that the Tartan is entitled to its 
right to j»int letters when and where it sees fit. 
The mistake Mr. Luther made, however, was in 
basing his~ opinion of an entire department on a 
very limited observation (one or two courses). The 
mistake the Tartan made, if it was a mistake, was 
in giving, at least to appearances, a letter the 
weight and tone of an editorial when it was obvious 
Mr. Luther’s opinion should be taken—as Martin 
Luther once said, in another context—‘cum grano 
salis’.”

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 17, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page •
experience, and at the same time elusion of his term, will be award- 
is creating a chance for them to ed the same varsity sweater and 
win a varsity “C” award through letter that are given to athletes 
a system of intramural managers, of intercollegiate sports.
The student managers partici- Applications for positions on 
pating in this new system will this managerial board are availa- 
include pupils from each class ble in room 104 of the gymnasium, 
who will have the duty of assist- Any questions concerning the pro- 
ing the intramural director with gram will be answered there.
Faculty And Chi Omega 
Lead WAA Cage League
Chi Omega sorority and the 
Faculty Bulldogs remained atop 
the WAA basketball league at the 
end of three rounds of play, each 
team winning three while losing 
nonei
The team rivalry is enhanced 
by the individual scoring compe­
tition between the team leaders. 
Miss Fisk, Faculty, leads the
league in scoring with 47 points, 
but she is closely followed by Gin- 
ny Schultz of Chi Omega with 46.
The Standings
Team Won Lost
Chi Omega 3 o
Faculty Bulldogs 3 0
Freshman A 2 1
Freshman B 2 1
Kappa Alpha Theta 1 1
Kappa Kappa Gamma 1 1
Delta Delta Delta 1 2
Science Dept. 1 2
Delta Gamma 0 3
Sigma Kappa . 0 3
Top Ten Scorers
Scorer * B F T
Fisk, Faculty 22 3 47
Schultz, Chi O 23 0 44
Fady, Fresh B 19 2 40
Kanrich, Faculty 17 2 36
Herre, Chi O 15 6 3*
Bruno, Chi O 12 3 2?
Farrington, Fresh A 12 1 25
Diehl, Fresh A 11 2 24
Haney, KAT 9 3 21
Walsh, Fresh A 8 3 19
IM Bulletin Board
Four Carnegie students check the “who, what, when, and where’’ 
of Carnegie’s extensive intramural activities.
Delta Upsilon “A” Arkens
Alpha Tau Oméga “B' 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Hi-Towers 
Sigma Nu “A”
Obelisks 
Theta Xi “B” 
Sprockets
177 lb.—Bob Heitzenrater, 
Indep.
167 lb.—Tom Dunkers, Indep. 
157 lb.—Jack Delbrook, SAE 
147 lb.—Bill Brussalis, Indep. 
137 lb.—Vic Valias, BTP 
127 lb.—Ed Hromanik, Indep. 
121 lb.—Duane Wakely, BTP 
117 lb.—Francis Situ, BTP
Wrestling Champions
After a hectic and somewhat 
exhausting week of elimination 
tournaments, the following men 
emerged with the wrestling cham­
pionships of their respective 
weight divisions.
Heavyweight — Clyde Stahle, 
Indep.
Top Games of the Week
BSR 44 I SLUGS 21
Wasserman, f 13|Allison, f 3
Slawkin, f 3| AveriH, f 1
Smith, f 12| Appl, f 1
Haberman, f ljEnglehart, c 9Mintz, f v 3| Hagaman, c 4
Summer, c 5| McVicker, g 0
Neaman, g 6| Mendenhall, g 1
Vile, g oj Smith, g 2
Herman, g 1| Kraus, g , 0
Score by Quarters:
Beta Sigma Rho 9 14 9 12—44
Slugs 10 4 1. 6—21
Delta Upsilon 48) Obelisks 47Finn, f 3j Goss, f 12
Branscome, f 10! Konoval, f 6
O’Reilly, c 23| Alexander, c 3
Robbins, g 9! Aversu, g 4
Peoples, £ 0| Dick, g 17
Butler, g 3| Ruano, f -3
¡Kaye, f 2
j Marshall, g 0
Score by Quarters:
Delta Upsilon 13 10 12 13—48
Obelisks 6 13 18 10—47
Roopsips 41 j Newman Club 49
Osipchak, f 8|Ryman, f 6
Kinkhead, f 8| Blank, f 18
Dole, f 6|Radziwon, c 6
Carl, c 13| McDonald, g 13
Staffelino, c 2 j Murphy, g 1
Bluman, g llMeekin, g 5
Downs, g 3j
Curr, g 0!Score by Quarters:
Roopsips 8 11 4 18—41
Newman Club 16 6 14 13—49
THE STANDINGS
American League
Beta Theta Pi “A' 
Beta Sigma Rho 
Delta Tau Delta 
Bagdad A. C.
Clugs
Citcom
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Pi Kappa “B” 
Newman Club “B1 
A.S.C.E.
National League
Alpha Tau Oméga “A'
Delta Upsilon “B”
Sekuds
Rinky Dinks
Rockets
iTS
ÎASV
SM-AN<^ 
Youe . 
büccêt- 
waen 
Bef o 
Gù
umeBuie
eioce
&US
Ni»Vf,Rdn lO’n (Äth
Bell Aircraft representatives will be here to discuss 
with you the engineering opportunities in all fields 
now available with this leading pioneer in the 
challenging fields of GUIDED MISSILES, SUPER­
SONIC AIRCRAFT, ROCKET MOTORS and 
AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. Long 
range diversified programs make these openings 
more appealing than ever before. Don’t miss this 
opportunity.
Royal Portable hold» the official World'» 
Portable Speed Championship a* »how» 
in the current World'» almanac.
See if Here»,*
Terms as low as $1.25 WeeklyPHONE
bhA176H On FASE6DAS 
YR (v4©55
EXT 271
Serving Maryland, Ohio,Pennsylvania, 
Virginia and West Virginia fromlcVN e.NN
TYPEWRITER CO
644 Liberty AvenueAT 1-8320
— SUPPLIES — 
REPAIRS — RENTALS
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-1800
Imtramural Roundup
Federal League Contests
Intramural Managers May Earn Varsity “C” 
Opportunity To Gain Administrative Experience
The Intramural Board is offer- the business and -other details of 
ing an excellent opportunity for the program 
students to gain administrative The senior manager, at the con-

---------------------------------------------------

Fsgre 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 17, 1953
Thompson, Craig, And Dosey 
Stand Out In Overtime Victory
by Jim Gore
With a 60-53 overtime victory over Washington and Jefferson it 
seems as if the Tech Tartans have finally hit their stride in the bas­
ketball wars. The upset victory Saturday followed on the heels of a 67- 
41 triumph against Thiel on Thursday and stretches the Plaid winning 
streak to three games. ?-----------------------------------------------------
For Tech it was no easy victory 
although they led from the outset 
of the contest. The score was tied 
five times and the lead changed 
hands nine times after hal£ time. 
The big deadlock, however, was at
52-52 which forced the game into 
overtime.
Scots Hit On Set Shots 
The Presidents having been 
down by five points at the quarter 
had the encounter tied up by half 
time and led at the end of three 
periods. But with both sides shoot­
ing more set shots the Plaid start­
ed to creep up. With only three 
minutes remaining the Presidents 
were again in possession of the 
lead although it was a slim one. 
A field goal by Mocker and a foul 
by McGinnis matched a foul by 
the opposition’s Godfrey and the 
overtime session was secured.
8 Points In Overtime 
The W&J boys managed only 
one point during the extra time 
but the Scots dropped through 
eight to grab the victory. Craig 
and Dosey hit for field goals and 
Thompson and Mocker accounted 
for two free throws apiece. 
Thompson, Dosey, And Craig 
Mojzer of the visitors was high 
point man for the evening with 18 
markers. For the Tartans it was 
Thompson, Dosey, and Craig with
16, 14, and 12 points respectively. 
The Scots were hot on the foul 
line missing only five attempts 
compared with nine for the oppo­
sition.
Pitt Panthers Are Next
Next Wednesday will be the big 
test for the Tech hoopsters as they 
tangle with the powerful but not
unbeatable Pitt quintet in a game 
that should provide some real ex­
citement.
Box Score.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
2¡n55
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds u Low u
RD61ItASNUT6-1I761 b:n
II Wood St. (A i.inia
Convenient P»rkiD|'v' * *
l:1 Better 
Dry Cleaningnn
(vic»V 
fOVy.bO
bADTWH b76AS61H
¡©5Ä l:1p6H ftn
ROUGHC DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
?
12 Inch
YONRg V»gOVf 
lVOO t: R77 
bn.nNn ftWM6StH
W&J
GoalsFonlsPts.
Corbett4311
Mojzer6618
Godfrey237
Alarez339
Shalk011
Kusher124
Weber113---—---
Totals17 '1953
CraigTech
3612
Dosey6214
Pottmeyer204
McGinnis226
Thompson6416
Jeske000
Mocker328---—---
Total221660
Tech
Score by Quarters 
14 13 15108—60
W&J9 18 1691—53
The Encompassing Tartans
Ed Pottmeyer, Kaye Thompson and Tom Craig (left to right) 
surround an unidentified W&J man during Saturday’s hoop action 
at Skibo gym.
Unbeaten Mermen 
Extend Win Streak 
To Seven Straight
Carnegie Tech’s swimming team 
extended its-record to seven wins 
against no losses by defeating Case 
Tech and Oberlin college last 
weekend. The score of both meets 
was 47-37.
Lead by Captain Dick Kramer 
who capped the 220 and 440 yard 
individual events and then an­
chored the winning 400 yard relay, 
The Tartan swimmers took seven 
out of 10 first places to sink the 
Yoemen. Other Tech firsts were 
Weddell, 150 individual medley, 
Duncan, fancy diving, and Aiken, 
breaststroke. Oberlin’s Lilli ch 
touched out Guz of Tech in both 
the 50 and 100 yard dashes, while 
Silverman beat Bob Coulter in the 
200 yard backstroke. This was the 
first time in 12 years that Tech has 
defeated Oberlin.
Although Case won four events 
the Tartans easily won the meet
NiO ,» ecoNDIGEST
”c’ F.Ni R l»N»VO"
Varied experiences in a Du Pont chemical plant 
fit young engineers for higher responsibility
As vyas pointed out in the last issue of 
the Digest, Du Pont’s many product 
lines afford men interested in pro­
duction supervision experience in a 
wide variety of operations.
For a better idea of what the work 
involves, let’s consider a specific case 
—the production of "Mycoban” so­
dium and calcium propionates, in­
hibitors used by bakeries to extend 
the mold-free life of bread and other 
baked goods.
Many of the problems encountered 
in the manufacture of "Mycoban” 
are similar to those arising in the 
manufacture of any Du Pont chemi­
cal. There is the same continuing 
effort to improve quality, while cut­
ting costs through the better use of 
equipment, instrument controls and 
raw materials.
The supervisor works hand in hand 
¦With the plant technical section to­
ward these goals. He also keeps him­
self informed on technological and 
economic trends affecting production 
and sales, finds explanations for out- 
of-line costs, and prepares plans and 
estimates for increasing production.
Such work obviously calls for a 
sound technical background. In ad­
dition, however, considerable admin­
istrative ability is needed. A super­
visor must be able to supervise. His 
duties include keeping people under 
him informed about long-range
Production Supervisor Robert B. McCue (of 
right), B.S. in Ch. E., West Virginia ’38, 
and plant laboratory shift-leader J. P. Quarles, 
B.S. in Ch. E., Lehigh ’38, discuss analysis 
of a product sample.
changes in company policy and as­
suming responsibility for their safety 
and morale.
The unusual problems encountered 
in "Mycoban” production are largely 
due to the seasonal nature of its sales. 
Its greatest use is in the hot, humid 
months, or from late spring to early 
fall. For this reason:
1. Production and warehouse inven­
tories of "Mycoban” must be care­
fully balanced against sales forecasts. 
The supervisor gathers necessary 
background information for this op­
eration.
2. Production needs, including man­
power, equipment and materials, 
must likewise be planned to meet 
sales forecasts.
3. Maintenance, including a yearly 
hydrostatic test of the plant, must 
be scheduled with the plant main­
tenance supervisor for the minimum 
interference with peak-season pro­
duction. Emergency maintenance 
must be kept down by carefully 
planned preventive maintenance.
As you can see, production super­
visors have a broad field of activity 
at Du Pont. The experience gained 
in this job will prepare an ambitious 
man for advancement to positions 
of still higher responsibility.
YOU'LL WANT to read "Chemical En­
gineers at Du Pont.’’ Explains oppor­
tunities in research, development, 
production, sales, administration and 
management. For copy, write: 2521 
Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. .. THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Procot* Control Engineer W. L. Morgan (at left), B.S. in Ch., West Virginia Wesleyan 'i7, 
observes packing characteristic» of "Mycoban powder as it comes from the loading hopper.
Listen to ‘‘Cavalcade of America,” Xu-— . eights on 
NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV
Tech NipsW&J60-53; Swimmers Win

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 17, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page T
CARNEGIE ./)
22 fi JV/i « Buík'K/.W'*’/ S'... ' U 2\!
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ...................................................................................... . Victor Sabol
Reporters.......... Anna,Mae Legosh, Kathy Galligan, Charles Keller,
Ray Schwalm
Engineer’sBanquet 
Discussed By 
Student Council
The first Evening Student 
Council meeting of the Spring se­
mester was held on Sunday, Feb­
ruary 1. One of the main topics 
discussed was the coming thirty- 
eighth annual engineers banquet. 
Discouraged over last year’s 
show, fellows? Come this year— 
it’s guaranteed to be better. Tick­
ets for the affair are slated to go 
on sale March 1. The banquet will 
be held May 2 at the Georgian 
room of the Webster Hall hotel. 
Other matters were discussed, but 
pigeon-holed until a later date.
Inflation Stops 
Scholarship Drive 
Of Nu Sigma Alpha
Nu Sigma Alpha, evening hon­
orary fraternity, has been working 
to establish a scholarship and had 
been told that $1,000 would be 
sufficient. When the fraternity 
managed to come close to this 
figure, a prominent evening stu­
dent sent in his personal check 
for over $100 to make up tht de­
ficit.
However, the scholarship can 
not yet be established due to the 
fact that by the time Nu Sigma 
Alpha had raised the amount 
specified, inflation set in and the 
$1,000 now is only sufficient for 
a scholarship every third year, un­
less some other arrangements can 
be made.
Editor’s note: Everyone appre­
ciates the efforts of Nu Sigma Al­
pha and wishes them success in 
their undertaking.
News
And
yI6-H
Sigma Delta Phi welcomed 
Andy Spisak, John Komlinic, and 
Carmen Parise into membership 
last week.
It is rumored that one group in 
mechanical lab got lost in Ma­
chinery hall when they were 
hunting for the equipment to be 
used in the air flow test.
Whatever happened to the col- i 
umn that was to be started by one 
of our brilliant evening students. 
He had planned to publish a ser­
ies of articles on little things 
around campus that some how be-
Evening School 
Trying To Get 
Blood Donors
It has been suggested that the 
Evening School organizations put 
forth a united effort to obtain 
blood donors for the American 
Red Cross.
Any student who would be will­
ing to donate a pint of blood 
should express his willingness by 
writing a note to Evening Student 
Council, Box 256 .
The reply to this article will 
determine whether any further 
action will be taken, so please 
send in your opinions.
came a part of his life at Tech. 
We are still looking forward to 
seeing these articles.
Prepare for an Executive Career 
in RETAILING — in just One Year!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on “The Tailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one 
year! Retailers needs you—and look to our graduate school—for fu­ture advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. Prominent retailers snd their sons and daughters to the N.Y.U. School of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Out one-year Master’s Degree probram includes^courses in all branches of retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New York stores, plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square East New York 3, New York
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
gOcoRV,Pf YOoPf fice
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Phi Gamma Pi Offers
Activities For Women
Vcd dOVoOV ’OffO
• AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
A-l Fit!” Collegians Say Of 
Arrow Gabanaro Sports Shirts
l:1 th6 ’OfN
—In— 
Photographie 
Equ!pment and Supplies
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
YOUR FULL DISCOUNTcRXgRo, iRV,FRVO
3606 FORBES ST.
»SIm61HItU V6316AtI:S
’cF»os
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
tettilo UMMft ÄutHòfciW btfftl eecA.eoiA company if
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
rnrrV © 1952, THE COCA-COU COMFAftV
College students report that precision-sized Arrow 
Gabanaro sports shirts bring them greater comfort—plus 
neater, smarter appearance. Gabanaro—washable rayon 
gabardine—is available in exact collar sizes and sleeve 
lengths, in a wide range of colors, at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
'»>-------------------------------------------------------3
¡ "BiMfiTS vT«* ‘ UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS__
Editor’s Note: This is the first in a series of articles in which 
we will try to acquaint the evenin gstudents with the various organi­
zations on the evening school campus.
Phi Gamma Pi sorority is a social organization which was 
formed primarily for those woment 
evening students who feel a de­
sire for companionship with other 
women whose interests are similar 
to their own. The sorority was es­
tablished during the 1946-47 school 
ydar when the need for an organ­
ization devoted to women evening 
students became apparent to the 
founders. The group first met in 
1947 and since that time, Phi Gam­
ma Pi has ratified its constitution 
and has been recognized by both 
Evening Student Council and the 
administration of Carnegie Tech.
Many Activities 
The activities of Phi Gamma Pi 
are devoted primarily ao fostering 
friendship among women evening 
students. Members aid and sup­
port Evening Student Council in 
its sponsored activities. From the 
time of Phi Gamma Pi’s inception, 
its members have been cognizant 
of the need of extra-curricular ac­
tivities for evening students and 
offer their services to Council for 
the benefit of all students.
Valentine Dinner 
And Card Party 
Held By Phi Mu
During the present year, Phi 
Gamma Pi has held two teas for 
women and has formed their own 
choral group which meets Monday 
evening at Carnegie Union.
Requirements 
Members are selected during the 
second semester of the school year 
from women evening students who 
express the desire to join its ranks. 
Pledged members must have been 
in attendance at evening classes 
during the school semester preced­
ing rushing and must have main­
tained at least average grades. 
Membership is not restricted as to 
race or religion.
Any women students desiring to 
join who did not fill out a blank at 
registration are asked to contact 
the President, Mary Alice Peter­
son, Box 256, CIT.
lcV fRgO
Bush Press Camera
CALLY» (v45©9
Phi Nu fraternity held a very 
successful Valentine’s dinner and 
card party at the Carnegie Union 
on Saturday, February 14. Social 
Chairman Jack Rice had the ta­
bles decorated with appropriate 
favors. After an enjoyable din­
ner, the group separated to the 
card tables where bridge, 500, and 
canasta were enjoyed.
He’s a "heavy” in the play, 
but short on time. 
Busy students need quick 
refreshment. That’s 
where Coca-Cola comes in.

---------------------------------------------------

pa8re «—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 17, 1953
f KÎNG-Size
fcAW*TE$
bcoNR.of Nc’Rbbcf cl ’ONNOV K»Rg.Nd Ro, i.siOV 
eV.bO NiRo Rod cNiOV X.osvf.•O b.sRVONNO
by Three Blind Mice 
SHADES OF ROBINHOOD . . .
Where are they now, Little John, 
Friar Tuck and the beautiful lady 
Mar ion? Ask the benevolent j 
architects who dubbed the IA 
lawn, “Sherwood forest.”
SKIBO CONSUMER REPORTS:
I . . . Beware of the men in white 
coats!! They have an affinity for 
all items classified as food and 
anything not glued to the floor­
boards vanishes surreptitiously 
within their tender grasp.
GOLD MINE ... A certain mis­
guided soul (enrolled at Pitt) has j 
found a new racket. He bets his j 
buddies from the local school for | 
retarded children that no matter j 
when they call MU 2-8893 the line | 
is busy. The number belongs to 
7-C Morewood Gardens.
ROSSEFORP IN HASTE ... A 
certain rosseforp in his anxiety to 
surprise his charges with diaboli­
cal questions found that his plan 
backfired. It seems some gremlin 
“snuck” in his headquarters and 
jinxed his typewriter so it could 
only work backwards on the Ditto 
Stencil. Regretting lack of the 30 
mirrors necessary to translate the ;
work, he was forced to postpone 
the quiz.
DRUMMED IN KNOWLEDGE
. . . Psychologists at Georgetown 
university are cooking up a device 
to greatly simplify the process of 
education. Their system includes: 
a record player, under-the-pillow 
j speaker and an earpiece.
The theory is that the student 
turns on this wonder of science 
when he goes to bed and the ma­
chine automatically plays the next 
| day’s lesson over and over through 
' the night grinding it into his sub­
conscious.
CONGRATULATIONS TO 
SOMEONE . . .-This week we con- 
j gratulate the loyal few who vainly 
tried to out-yell the half-dozen 
Thiel rooters at last Thursday 
night’s basketball game.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT . . . There 
are books in Morewood Gardens 
library. All the latest uptodate 
information you desire.
OSCULATION . . .
A pair in a hammock
Attempted to kiss 
And in less than a jiffy,
•siift aj{n papuej ¿aqx
Positions
Students interested in work­
ing on the business staff of 
the Tartan are needed. There 
are openings in the circulation 
and advertising staffs. See 
Dave Goldsmith Friday even­
ing at 7:30 at the Tartan of­
fice if you are interested.
CHESTERFIELD
IS BEST FOR YOUCoo«n«h( 191V. rCuuncc At Mvm rn»«-«-n r»
Hillel Forms 
Pgh Group
The B’nai B’rith Hillel founda­
tion, an active organization on 
more than 200 campuses in the 
country, has been established 
here in Pittsburgh. A comforta­
ble lounge at the YM&WHA will 
be equipped in the near future 
for the use of students from the 
four major colleges in Pittsburgh 
—Carnegie Tech, Pitt, Duquesne. 
and PCW.
Hillel will offer a program of 
religious, interfaith, cultural, and 
social activities. The group will 
hold its next meeting today at the 
Carnegie Union at 4:30 p.m.
WRCT Plans 
Breakfast Show
“Something new has been add­
ed” can be labled an old ex­
pression but in the case of WRCT’s 
new program it rings out loud and 
clear. At 7:30 a.m., Monday thru 
Friday, a radio show will come 
from Skibo known as the “Break­
fast with Bob Show.” Bob Barash, 
who will handle the program, will 
interview students and professors 
and will generally give an inter­
esting program for an hour and a 
hajf each day.
The program was born two 
weeks ago and materialized within 
the last week. The show has 
gained four sponsors.
Patronize Our Advertisers
rkyBUlr
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for 
advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at 
ilCbgaCtsW if you are one of the men we are looking for. 
We have openings right now for qualified engineers and 
designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need 
top-notch men to help us in' our long-range military 
program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars 
and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
ilCbgaCts provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work, a 5-day, 40-hour week 
as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is 
scheduled.
ENCINC «NO limm CORPORATION
rftwia/k Dividiert
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
NOW... 10 Months 
For Chesterfield
Scientific Evidence
A
 medical specialist is making regular bi­
monthly examinations of a group of people 
from various walks of life. 45 percent of this 
group have smoked Chesterfield for an average 
of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports 
that he observed...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and 
sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MILDER
