TARJAN
May 2,1978 Volume 78, Number 28 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213CMU - A year in review
TARTAN I TARTAN
Rhodesians study business, management at CMU
Endowment campaign surpasses 50 mark .
H&SS' AAC expandsÄA Otrcct«>fS
tmjoy jobs r*ew$inside
emeftainment
CMU to build Solar Energy Lab
TARTAN
Prime music option dropped
Van Horn explains SiOO titition increase
Minorities await Baldee decision
inside
TARJAN
Kapian disœunts MBA ranking
Professore speak out «n cheabng problem
i *f*5TÍ5--
by Jeff Zaslow
Old TARTANs turn yellow. They’re 
aged in the Skibo cellar (the TARTAN of­
fice) and are categorized by shades. The 
darker the yellow tan, the older the TAR­
TAN. This year’s issue number one, from 
September 6, is the yellowest. Last week’s 
issue, number 27, is the whitest we have on 
file, but it’s turning color also. It can’t be 
helped.
Today’s issue (number 28) is white, but 
if you watch very closely while you’re 
reading, you’ll see that by the time you get 
to the sports section, there will be just a 
touch of yellow to it.
Before the TARTAN is accused of yel- 
low-journalism, it should be realized that 
there is a reason for saving old TARTANs 
that is worth all the pain of watching them 
yellow. That reason, to be brief and ex­
citing, is “NOSTALGIA!”
So let’s take a walk down memory lane, 
or a tour through the TARTANs, for a 
review of this past year.
September
Food Service began their scatter-system, 
H&SS began a new core curriculum, con­
struction began on a new dorm, and CMU 
security began carrying guns. The reason 
for armed security men was because six 
escaped inmates from Allegheny County 
Jail were still at large, roaming around
Oakland.
Entropy announced that they lost 
$5,000 in 1976-77 due to shoplifting, and 
that they had remodeled the store in an 
effort to cut down on crime. Entropy 
cashiers had no plans to carry guns, however.
Dan Berg took over as new Dean of 
MIS, Claudia Geraci and Corey Chase be­
came the new residence directors, and Ger­
ald Dalton took over as the new housing 
director.
A controversy surrounding the demise 
of the Morewood desk began in September, 
and continued until mid-October, when the 
TARTAN announced that “the Morewood 
Desk is back.” The TARTAN got interviews 
with Bill Dillon, a few R.A.s,adesk.worker, 
and Dean Swank, but could not nab an 
interview with the desk.
In late September, the TARTAN head­
lined a story about the Rhodesians coming 
to CMU, but had no idea of the trouble 
ahead.
A letter to the editor complained about 
the ugly girls on campus. One student who 
replied to the letter wrote; “I feel sorry for 
you, sir, and all other like you, if beauty is 
your only criterion for distinguishing one 
woman from another.”
Hal Aqua, the freaked-out student from 
the sixties, graced the pages of FOLIO. A
continued on paga 5
Senate restructuring proposed
by Elliot Ohlberg
At tonight’s Student Senate meeting, 
a new external committee will be formed. 
This committee will closely scrutinize the 
CMU Student Government as currently 
structured, and will report back to Senate 
in September with recommendations for 
improving the representation and/or the
efficiency.
Drastic organizational changes could 
result. For instance, the entire Senate may 
be abolished and replaced with a seven 
member Student Government board to be 
elected by the entire student body.
Senate has become increasingly aware 
that something is afoul within its chambers 
and most students recognize the need for 
some reform.
It was decided last week to postpone 
selecting the new committee until today, 
so that persons interested in serving could 
be in attendance at the meeting. Senate 
also voted to avoid a possible conflict of 
interest encounter by excluding officers 
from the committee. Don Simon, an ex- 
Chairperson, told the TARTAN that 
excluding the President and Chairperson 
from such a committee is of questionable 
legality. ‘
Currently, the Senate is composed of 24 
students elected by their College and 5 
ex-officio members (Presidents of UFO.
SDC, Commuter Council, a Faculty Senate 
representative, and Dean Swank). The four 
internal committees are Finance, Academic 
Affairs, General Campus and Information, 
and Rules.
John Tumazos, SG President, feels that 
“one serious structural weakness is the lack
of campus-wide officers. ‘Only the 
President is elected in a campus-wide 
election. The other offices are filled by
Attrition rate examined
by Saul Carliner
Academic attrition is a broad term 
which emcompasses both voluntary and in­
voluntary withdrawal from the University. 
Several CMUers have expressed concern 
over the number of students withdrawing 
from CMU.
William Elliott, Vice Provost for Enrol­
ment Planning, explained that these figures 
are difficult to calculate. ‘The best way to 
calculate the attrition rate is to do it on 
a name-by-name basis.” That is, follow 
each incoming freshman through eight 
semesters. Elliott added that this is diffi­
cult to do on an ongoing basis. '
So, he calculates a “rough” attri­
tion rate by comparing the size of 
an incoming freshman class and its
Commencement nears
Nearly 1200 students, including 147 doctoral candidates j390 masters candidates, and 
645 baccalaureate candidates, will receive their degrees at the commencement exercises 
scheduled for Monday, May 15 at 10 AM on the cut. Fbur university staff and faculty 
members will read the honorary degree citations of the recipients who will briefly ad­
dress the graduating class.
During commencement, university President Richard M. Cyert will also present honor­
ary degrees to the former president and chairman of the board of the Fisher Scientific
Company, Aiken W. Fisher, the chairman 
of the board of Rockwell International 
Corporation, William F. Rockwell, Jr., 
and two men internationally recognized 
for their contributions to the Arts; the 
founder of the New York Shakespeare 
Festival, Joseph Papp, and Isaac Bashevis 
Singer, the celebrated Yiddish author.
Aiken W. Fisher,, an emeritus life 
trustee of CMU, served as chairman of the 
board of trustees at the university from 
1966 to 1971.
William F. Rockwell, Jr., although he 
is chairman of the board of Rockwell 
International, is extremely involved in 
educational and cultural activities. He is 
a member of the board of trustees of the 
University of California, Grove City 
College, and Point Park College.
Joseph Papp, teacher, lecturer, and wri­
ter, generated the New York Shakespeare 
Festival from, an acting workshop he 
started in a Manhattan church basement in 
1953.
Several of Papp’s award winning Fe** 
tival productions include “No Race to 
be Somebody,” ‘Two Gentlemen of 
Verona,” and “A Chorus Line.”
Isaac Bashevis Singer, one of the great­
est current Yiddish authors, combines 
the mysticism of Jewish folklore with the 
reality of life in the once thriving Eastern 
European Jewish communities.
Singers career skyrocketed with the 
publication of the English version of his 
novel, The Family Mosket, in 1950.
Presidential. appointment or Senate 
election. Not only does this deny the elec­
torate direct participation in the selection 
of officers, bat it encourages the power to 
connive. He suggests that the Chairperson 
and Treasurer also be elected by the entire 
campus.
One comprehensive proposal has already 
been submitted to the Senate, and hence 
to the new external committee.
continued on paga 4
size at graduation. This does not
account for students who graduate
in fewer or more than eight semes­
ters, and also includes those students 
who transfer to the school. Elliott 
estimates the attrition rate, using 
this method, to be 25-30% which he 
feels is “good” and comparable to
schools in the same class.
Associate Dean Betty Jane Uoyd 
figures thai 50% of the students who 
enter H&SS go on to graduate from 
that college. ‘This is the same as it 
was fifteen years ago,” she explain­
ed, adding that now students are 
more likely than ever to attend more 
than one college before graduating.
continued on paga 10

---------------------------------------------------

rp ri 3 tri fyvjiu v c Udii I9 I
The “Investments In Progress” cam* 
paign, headed by Jack Johnson, Vic&»Pres- 
ident on Development, has taken a positive 
direction.
CMU hopes to establish 30 endowed 
professorships with money raised in this
:
The University, in trying to reach its 
goal, has even sponsored a thank-a-thon 
which involved a panel of 19 faculty mem­
bers who called CMU graduates for 2 
nights, 2lA hours each evening, to thank 
the grads for their efforts in the $100 mil­
lion fund-raising drive.
The following amounts are the result of 
the “Investments in Progress” campaign 
through March 31:
Coal Hedged A PaidillSl
11 Ige
¦Mil
Paid
Gifts and Pledges Prior to $40,000,000 $ 42,489,000 S 7,489,000
Campaign Announcement'
71 Ie: :; :PsWM
Gifts and Hedges 
July 1,1976
Trustees
Alumni
''Friends
CorporationsMi
7.000.000
7.000.000 
17,000,000
I ^
2,228,991 1,196,528
2375,915
296,609
1,200,615
289,109
io,ooo,(xx)
Foundations 15,000,000 3,877,601 3,259,201
Bequests 4,000,000 1,418,512 1,368,512
¦
a*;
18,983,027
Kiltie Marching Band organized
The 1978-79 Kiltie Marching Band is 
officially rehearsing, according to Warren 
Mercer, North Hills Senior High Band 
Director and new Marching Band Director 
for CMU.
The first practice-meeting took place 
last week with 42 people in attendance.
“We’re hoping to have 64 players for 
next year and we will be contacting incom­
ing freshmen who might be interested in 
joining the band,” Mercer commented.
Mercer, a class of ‘58 alumnus, believes 
that, “the Marching Band has been needed 
for a long time... it’s a good thing that 
it is returning since the Music Department 
doesn’t have a Marching Band anymore.” 
He added, ‘The program is not really
unique. Universities, such as Pennsylvania 
State University, have Marching Bands that 
ara not part of their Music Department’s 
offerings but instead are a “University 
project.”
“Student Senate has agreed to cover 
the Band’s operating expenses [while] the 
University will be taking care of Mr. 
Mercer’s salary,” Earle Swank, Dean of 
Student Affairs, reported.
Mercer remarked, “There is a possibility 
that Music majors will not be allowed to 
perform in the band.” Dean Swank stated, 
“The Music Department will be issuing a 
policy statement about this matter soon.” 
He explained the Department recognizes 
that Marching Band membership requiresPhysics prof. honored
Dr. Lincoln Wolfenstein, Physics, has 
been elected a member of American scien­
tists’ most elite group, the National Acad­
emy of Science (NAS).
Wolfenstein, who began as an instructor 
of physics at CMU in 1948, received the 
honor at this week’s 115th annual meeting 
of the Academy in Washington, D.C. 
Membership in the Academy is one of the 
highest laurels available to scientists and 
engineers in the United States.
The CMU professor was elected in 
recognition of his original contributions 
to the understanding of the forces exerted
upon one another by the elementary par­
ticles contained in all matter. He is a 
leading expert in the theory of the weak 
interaction responsible for the releasing 
of beta particles from radioactive nuclei. 
Wolfenstein has played a major role in the 
development of weak interaction physics 
through his original articles and concise, 
authoritative summaries which he has 
delivered at a succession of international 
conferences.
Wolfenstein is a fellow of the American 
Physical Society and has published exten­
sively in professional journals.
Carnegie Institute appeals
regular attendance. For example, a student 
may have a conflict with Ensemble prac­
tice. “The Music Department is not prepar­
ed to bar Music majors but they want to 
make priorities clear,” Swank concluded.
Terry Hanna, Junior in Chemical 
Engineering, commented, “I feel that 
it Js a good idea to have a Marching Band 
because it gives non-Music majors a chance 
to participate musically at CMU.” He 
added, “The more members there are 
the merrier,” and he suggested that more 
students consider joining. Elliot Ohlberg, 
Junior, Biology, feels that, “more students 
would consider joiningjf the group was not 
a marching band.”
The Band will be playing at the 4 home 
football games this fall. Tentatively, there 
will be 2 evening practices, Monday and 
Wednesday, each week. and a practice 
session the morning of each home game. 
Hanna anticipates “ practices to be arrang­
ed to fit member’s needs.”
“Alumni are extremely interested in see­
ing CMU have a Marching Band again. 
They really seem to enjoy the tradition 
including the Kiltie-skirt uniform,” Matt 
Weinberg, Junior, AMS, remarked.
“I think the idea of a Marching Band 
will really enhance school spirit-actually 
it might create some,” concluded Martin 
Donner, Sophomore, AMS.
Carnegie Institute. has launched its 
1978 Annual Appeal Drive. This fund 
raising effort is directed at the Institute’s 
membership, and is separate from the 
Institute’s long-range capital development 
drive. Contributions to the appeal are made 
in addition to annual membership dues 
and are totally tax deductible.
Funds raised from the Appeal are used 
to improve Institute programs. Last year 
the appeal raised $53,000.00, which was 
used to expand the Institute’s educational 
programs, and to support in part curatorial 
and research efforts. The 1977 Campaign 
raised $22,000.00 more than the pre­
vious year. Carnegie Institute’s 1978 goal 
is $75,000.00.
The 1978 drive poses a special challenge 
to Carnegie Institute - the National Endow­
ment for the Arts has awarded the Institute
a $1.0 million Challenge Grant. Such grants 
are awarded on a 4 to 1 basis; this means 
that Carnegie Institute will receive $1.00 
for every $4.00 in new or increased con­
tributions.
Sun Day rises
Tomorrow is Sun Day, although Pitts­
burgh commemorated it this past Saturday. 
Sun Day is a nationally organized event 
designed to promote public awareness of 
the availability, reliability, and cleanliness 
of solar power.
On Wednesday, posters, buttons, and 
shirts will be sold in the Skibo Lobby.'
Dan Horgan, Freshman in H&SS, told 
the TARTAN that he and some friends 
may start a Solar Energy Club at CMU in 
the fall.
ISO proposed
Any CMU international student who 
would like to help establish an Interna­
tional Student Organization(ISO) next fall 
at CMU, is invited to attend the National 
Conference of NAFSA (National Associa­
tion for Foreign Student Affairs). Douglas 
Coutts, Foreign Student Counselor at the 
CMU Translation and English Language 
Center, can provide detailed information 
on ihe workshops and seminars at the 
Conference together with registration 
materials. Coutts is attending the confer­
ence and wishes to take some students with 
him.
Coutts would be glad to speak with any 
student who can’t attend the Conference 
at Iowa State University on June 7—9, but 
is interested in establishing the CMU-ISO.
Costs for the Conference will be fairly 
minimal. Reasonably priced housing is on 
campus in dormitory rooms. Travel grants 
may be available* to students from certain 
countries through the Asia Foundation.
Senate murmurs
by Carl Freedman
It was back to budgets this week. After 
all budgets were reviewed, the Finance 
Committee found three organizations: 
WRCT, Spirit’s Black Week, and SDC, 
whose budgets, they felt, needed to be 
looked at again.
In WRCT’s budget, the committee did 
not see the need for CB radios in the 
station’s operation. At the committee 
meeting, it was decided that CB’s should 
not be funded. WRCT, however, asked for 
other items which they felt they needed- 
an amplifier, a cassette deck, two cassette 
players, three powerpacks and two micro­
phones. These items were passed by com­
mittee and by Senate.
Spirit’s Black Week was different. The 
committee felt that the band and concert 
during Black Week are for social, not cul­
tural, reasons and should not be funded. 
The committee suggested that Black Week 
should be made an external committee 
of Senate so that these events could be 
funded. Spirit, however, could not decide 
on what to do. The committee recom­
mended that Black Week’s funds be frozen 
until a decision was made. Senate agreed to 
take such action.
Finally, SDC’s budget was reviewed, 
but funding for the Saturday night films 
was continued, since it was determined to 
be a service to the campus.
In other business, a new Student Gov­
ernment constitution was proposed by 
Danni Smith. Immediately, Ton Engelmann 
moved to postpone discussion until Sep­
tember, so Senate could have time to look 
over the new constitution. Dean Swank 
ammended the motion to postpone action 
until September but have discussion now 
(see article on page 1).
The following resolution was passed by 
Senate.
“Be it resolved that Student Senate, in 
order to realign itself with goals set forth in 
the constitution, and hence better address 
the issues and problems of the student 
body at Carnegie-Mellon University; recom­
mends to the President of Student Govern­
ment, John Tumazos; that rather than 
limiting his efforts by concentrating on 
minor issues and prolonged attack on 
certain portions of the student body, 
address himself to issues in a manner of 
establishing priorities and allocating his 
time and efforts in order to effect the 
situation of most students, in cooperation 
with Student Senate, in a positive way and 
thus enhance the overall student environ­
ment at CMU.”
Two other resolutions were passed by 
Senate. The first was by Danni Smith, who 
-wanted the Affirmative Action Office of 
CMU to submit proof to Senate next week 
that the University is following the Affir­
mative Action guidelines in their hiring 
procedures. Many students note the almost 
total lack of black faculty at CMU.
The second resolution was made by Dan 
Monaco to have Student Corporation in­
vestigate WRCT. Monaco made specific 
points to look into: WRCT’s responsibi­
lity to the public and student body, misuse 
of equipment, and any illegal acts com- 
mited in the station.
An exasperated Tony Barker declared 
that he is “sick of the bullshit,” and that 
a Senate seat for SUPA is now available 
because he is quitting after this meeting.
The next Senate meeting is today, May 
2. at 7 PM in the Wherrett Room.
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

by Jean Pellegrini
The following message to the campus 
community concerning Food Service oper­
ations for the remainder of this semester, 
was issued by Food Service Director, John 
Eichmuller:
As the school term begins to wind down 
and the end of our fiscal year nears, our 
Food Service financial status indicates we 
are not in the position we care to be in at 
this point in time. The publicized fact 
that Food Service is budgeted to be a self- 
sustaining part of Auxiliary Services, and 
we want it to continue to be, is of great 
concern to us at this time. We have already 
instituted cost-saving reductions designed 
to have as little effect on you, our custom­
ers and employees, as possible:
1. Cut back in management and supervisory 
personnel.
2. Closing of Morewood Cafeteria on 
weekends.
3. Cutting back on Tartan Grill hours.
4. Continued saving of electricity through­
out all Food Service units.
5. Increased Catering prices.
6. Elimination of a sandwich maker in the
Housing
discussed
In response to coupons from the TAR­
TAN sent to President Cyert from stu­
dents dissatisfied with present housing 
conditions, Cyert called a meeting to 
personally discuss the complaints. The 
Tuesday, April 25th meeting was at­
tended by Vice Pres. Richard Van Horn, 
Housing Director Gerry Dalton, Bill 
Dillon, and some students who had sent 
coupons to Dr. Cyert. President Cyert 
found himself unable to attend as he had 
originally planned to do.
After making apologies for the Pres­
ident, Dr. Van Horn conducted the meet­
ing while Dillon, and occasionally Dalton, 
fielded students’ questions and com­
plaints. Specific problems concerning 
housekeeping, maintenance, and fire and 
safety hazards were discussed. The black­
out which occurred in Doherty House was 
brought up. Mr. Dillon replied that a 
system of emergency power is being 
developed and will be installed in the 
near future.
Other topics of discussion included 
the renovation of Morewood Gardens, 
lounge renovations, the locking of Donner 
Hall doors, and the residence director’s 
program. The much criticized “pay or 
move” policy for when a student va­
cates a room leaving another roomate(s) 
behind, was also mentioned. Mr. Dillon 
assured the students that next year’s 
policy will be more pleasing.
Also expressed was the students need 
to be dealt with in a courteous, respect­
ful manner. Dillon and Dalton claimed 
to be very interested in more student 
input, and cited the organization of com­
mittees for next year which will expedite 
the transmission of student ideas to the 
housing administrators. In the meantime, 
both men encouraged students to voice 
their opinions to them directly. Each 
insisted that they are available for lis­
tening to students.
Pertaining to centralization of student 
mailboxes in Baker Hall and changes in 
the Servomation system, Dillon said he 
welcomes student suggestions.
Faculty Dining Room.
7. Co-sponsoring of special student events 
with Student Activities.
8. Elimination of high-cost packaged snack 
items in the Tartan Grill.
Of course, other alternatives could have 
been invoked, such as lowering the quality 
of meat purchased or decreasing portion 
sizes, eliminating the more costly menued 
items from our cafeteria line, or reducing 
both the regular and student work force. 
But we felt these types of changes would 
indeed bring about general dissatisfaction.
I am bringing this to light because I feel 
an obligation to communicate our position 
to you. I am hopeful you will understand. 
Any comments or suggestions you might 
have to help our program are welcomed— 
my door is open.
When asked about the already instituted 
“cost-saving reductions” Eichmuller stated, 
“These are temporary measures which were 
necessary to help the financial picture this 
year.” He also said that the “reductions” 
were spread out so that the effect on cus- 
tomers would be minimized.
A further note concerning the remainder 
of the semester; all seniors on food con­
tract will be allowed an extension of their 
contracts until May 15, graduation day.
Next years’ plans for Food Service 
show intentions to improve the existing 
service as well as introduce some new fea­
tures. Eichmuller cited the fact that Food 
Service’s budget was significantly increased 
for next year.
A consultant was hired to help locate 
problem areas and ways of improving exist­
ing Food Service operations. A rough draft 
of the consultant’s report is being reviewed 
by Eichmuller and his staff, and any deci­
sions made will be for Summer ’79. The 
report addressed these areas: the More­
wood Gardens’ “problem”; feasibility 
study on a snack bar to be located on the 
other side of campus; and an overview of 
the present quality of Food Service.
As for this summer, Eichmuller stated, 
“Capital improvements will be limited be­
cause of the possibility that the Morewood 
Gardens facility will be redone next sum- 
mer.
A full-time dietician has been hired, be­
ginning July 1. Her job will include: a 
“deeper look into the menu," formal daily 
evaluations of every meal, and chats with
Food Service Director, John Eichmuller, said his budget was increased for next year.
students on a daily basis to gather ideas for 
future improvements. She will also be re 
sponsible for publishing a nutritional guide 
which will replace the “nutritional board” 
in Skibo.
The student rates for September '’78 
have been raised to $3.00/hr. for beginning 
students and $3.50/hr. for experienced 
students. “This was done to encourage 
more work-study students to work for 
Food Service,” Eichmuller remarked.
The Tartan Grill will have these effi­
ciency measures implemented: an addi­
tional register (this will allow 6 lines to 
form at the counter); an expanded training 
program for employees; a new holding unit 
that can be loaded from either side of the 
“window”; and a new microwave oven. 
Grill hours will be 11 AM to midnight 
every day.
The purchase of equipment, such as a 
convection steamer for vegetables, “will 
help do the job better,” according to Eich­
muller.
In the Deli-Bakery or Kiltie Coffee­
house, there will be an L-shaped bakery 
counter, which will take the place of the 
water-fountain, in order to group all the
baked goods together, thus increasing effi­
ciency.
New food plans are also in order for 
next Fall. There will be more 5-day plans 
and a new “5-point” plan for weight- 
watchers.
Overall, Food Service does seem to be c 
considering students’ needs and ideas. If 
anyone has any suggestions, call the Food 
Service Hot-Line, extension 2127, Mon­
days between 5 and 6 PM.
Student will search
The Department of Architecture an 
nounced that William O’Neill, a junior in 
Architecture, has been named to the de­
partment head search committee.
O’Neill was named after students be­
came angry at a statement that the com 
mitee would have no students in its meni 
bership. Robert Taylor, Architecture head, 
denied this and stated a student would soon 
be named to the committee.
ATTENTION SCIENCE 
AND ENGINEERING 
MAJORS!
The Air Force has openings for young men and women majonng in 
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical Aerospace 
General and Electrical Engineenng. Mathematics. Physics and Com 
puter Technology 
To help prepare for one ol these Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year proyams of study which will defrav some of your college 
costs
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your grad 
uation. youII he commissioned an officer in the Air Force Then comes 
responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the best peo 
pie and facilities in the world and a mission with a purpose You'll gel 
excellent starting salarv medical and dental care 30 davs of paid va 
cation beginning your first year and more
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away See what's in it 
for you See hou. you can serve your country in return Youll he glad 
you put your major to work on a |ob that really cixipts
Call 624-6397 or see us in Room
435, Cathedral of Learning
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR'S HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.
Food Service to improve

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
TARTANAwards
The TARTAN awards. It’s not whether you win or lose', 
it's how you play the game. Congratulations to the winners!
The “It's more like a rape!” award-to all students who 
came here looking for a very personal experience.
The “I eat complainers for breakfast award”—to Gerald 
Dalton, Director of Housing.
The “How to be noticed in a foreign country” award-to 
the protesting Rhodesian students.
The “I forgot to get my silverware” award-to Food Ser­
vice, for instituting a new ‘scatter system ’ plan this year.
The “We thought we knew how to abbreviate” award- 
to A./.E.S.E.C. or the International Association of Students 
in Economics and Business Management (I.A.S.E.B.M.)
The ‘‘What’s the matter, haven’t you seen a midget be­
fore?” award—to all the students who get excited when 
they see children from the CMU Child Care center romping 
on the cut.
The ‘‘She’s uglier than she is in the Pic Book” award-to 
all the Freshman guys who came here expecting more than 
they got.
The ‘‘We hope you get leprosy award—to all the students 
who refuse to bend down to pick up the TARTAN on 
Tuesdays because they 're afraid that their pens will fall out 
of their pockets.
The “Thank-you for helping us keep up on current 
events” award-to Hunt Library, for never placing magazines 
in the reading room unless they are at least three weeks old.
The ‘‘No mail to Lebanon” award—to the CMU Post Of­
fice for posting a sign that announced "No mail to Leba­
non”, deprivinq all Lebanese subscribers from reading the 
TARTAN.
The “Don't pick your courses until the A PHI O Faculty 
Course Evaluation comes out” award—to all students who 
are still waiting for the FCE’s.
The ‘‘We’ll extend our deadline forever” award—to the 
Oakland Review staff, who are probably still accepting 
manuscripts for their 1974 edition, published four years 
ago.
The “Well, there’s always Howard Johnson’s” award- 
to students who will have to find alternate housing now 
that Webster Hall is dead.
The “Coal Miners do it in the dark” award—to the striking 
miners who forced us to follow their example during the 
coal strike.
The “Black Week is for everyone” award—to all the 
whites who participated in the festivities.
The “Let them eat watermelons” award—to Student 
Senate, for granting UFO a budget, only to take it back 
again. What did they want, seedless watermelons?
The “Elvis Presley is alive and well and living in Pika” 
award-to Pika’s Greek Sing crooner.
The “I don’t want to be a lawyer after all” award—to the 
Law Club member who dropped out of the dub after the 
group showed “A Paper Chase” as a fund raiser.
The “Money isn’t everything” award-to all the CMU 
men and women who turned down ROTC scholarships in 
favor of freedom after college.
The “Art of Persuasion” award- to all of Al Goldman’s 
Art of Persuasion students who were unable to persuade the 
English Department to renew his course for next year.
The “Sleeping Baggers do it without unzipping” award- 
to all the CMU students who were Sleeping Baggers before 
they came here, and are still trying to get unzipped.
The “Let’s see them against the Steelers” award-to the 
Food Service Staff, who donned football jerseys for a 
series of ads in the TARTAN entitled “Your winning 
team. ”
The “Where were you when the Boiler exploded?”award- 
to all the guys who came running out of More wood’s A, B, 
C, and D towers on that early November morning.
The “John Tumazos” award— to John Tumazos.
The “Keep off the grass” award—to Dean Swank, who is 
saving large quantities of grass for the enjoyment of parents 
and alumni on graduation day.
The “Bare breasts make better theater” award-to the
continued on page 10
Letters
Marlboro Man
Editor:
It was with considerable amuse­
ment that I read Mr. John Vour- 
haus’ emotional outburst in last 
week’s “Letters” column decrying 
the termination of the “Art of 
Persuasion” course. If ever a course 
warranted a swift and merciless 
demise, “The Art of Persuasion” 
must certainly head the list.
The English Department does 
not need a course dealing with the 
“study” of advertisements and 
television commercials. What next? 
Perhaps the “Dialectics of Burger 
Chef and Jeff’ for twelve units, 
or “The Wit and Wisdom of Toy­
ota and AMC: A Sino-American 
Triumph.” I can visualize the 
students queuing for “The Marl­
boro Man: Fact or Fiction?”
Delving into the burning issues of 
today: why is Folger’s Mrs. Olsen 
from Scandanavia, which exports 
about a thimbleful of coffee per 
year? Are Certs really a breath 
mint or a candy mint? Should we 
really grab all the gusto we can? 
If so, why? Five pages, double
spaced for Monday.
I enthusiastically endorse Prof. 
Hayes’ wise, albeit belated, deci­
sion to put a sudden halt to this 
course. These “trash” courses are 
springing up like fast-food outlets 
throughout this nation’s univers­
ities and they represent an unfor­
tunate indictment of the declining 
state of academia kowtowing to 
America’s bleary-eyed television 
generation. Like McDonald’s, 
courses such as “The Art of Per­
suasion” may be fashionable and 
eye-catching. But nutritious? Rath­
er than pouring much needed 
funds into classes of this ilk, En­
glish Department appropriations 
should instead be invested in the 
worthwhile, time-proven causes of 
the classics or perhaps a course 
involving the study of Old and 
Middle English.
Mr. Vourhaus’ letter states “Al’s 
(I assume he is referring to Prof. 
Goldman’s) classes were the finest 
I had in four years of college” 
and continues to brazenly assert 
that this was “the best class on 
campus.” Suzy Chapstick, help us
all! But then, perhaps Mr. Vour­
haus didn’t get stroked this 
morning.
James Flood 
Senior, English
R^pect
Editor:
I am a senior and have never 
written to the TARTAN before. 
I believe that the TARTAN is a 
useful sounding board for student’s 
complaints but until now, I have 
not had a very strong opinion on 
any issue affecting this campus. 
I would like to know why Spring 
Carnival could be moved to ac­
comodate the Jewish holiday of 
Passover, but the recent Varsity 
Sports Banquet menu was not 
planned with regard to those of 
us who observe the Holiday? I 
was further aghast at the invoca­
tion given by the Priest. I did not 
mind the idea of a Priest giving 
it, and I didn’t mind most of the 
prayer itself, in fact I thought it 
was rather well done until the last
TARTAN
Volume 78April 25, 1978Number 27
Editor-In-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
News Editors;
Features Editor: 
Assistant News & Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Production Manager:
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Saul Carliner 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Stephanie Waite 
Jean Pellegrini 
Brian Byrnes 
Linda Deak 
Elliot Ohlberg 
Joan Livitski 
K.A. Yaksich 
Ed Sullivan 
V.R.V. Rdmanan 
Timothy Wenk
Assistant News Editor: Mike Snizek
Assistant Photography Editor: _ Skip Brazelton
Production Assistant: Marsha Fairbrother
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50 (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Robert Hull on his 
years at CMUView From The Campus
I am a graduating Senior who 
has studied architecture two and a 
half years. My comments on CMU 
are a reaction to the problems of 
this community.
When I entered, CMU was bill­
ed as “a Personal Experience”. 
CMU has been a disappointment 
to me: I expected to learn better 
things; I expected to make better 
friends; 1 expected to see a more 
through-out, aesthetic environ­
ment.
CMU is excellent at teaching 
professional skills. After I had 
made a career decision, I found it 
easy to pursue my goals. Unfor­
tunately, I, like many high school 
graduates, was unsure of my goals 
when I entered CMU. If one is 
confused about his direction, this 
school is not a good place to stu­
dy. Many of the curriculms are or­
iented so that the students are ex­
pected to have made a clear deci­
sion as to their career, but stu­
dents need time to make this deci­
sion.
A tremendous communication 
gap exists between instructors and 
students at CMU. While some in­
structors can not speak clearly 
and understandably in English, 
others don’t care to deal with stu­
dents because they are overly con­
cerned with their own scholastic 
endeavers. To cite an extreme ex­
ample, I arranged to talk with 
prof X about a project. He didn’t 
show for this meeting, nor for the
rescheduled meetings for the fol­
lowing four class days. About a 
year later, I was informed by prof 
Y (a friend of prof X) that prof X 
had purposefully avoided me. I 
was appalled at prof X’s negli­
gence and his inability to speak 
his mind to me. I’ve also had the 
honor of two instructors slam­
ming their doors in my face. Even 
when they talk some are not very 
explicit or helpful. I had an in- 
stmctor explain what was wrong 
with my work as, “We don’t like 
it”. I’m surprised that students 
tolerate such instructors. The in­
structors should be taught how to 
teach and how to deal with stu­
dents helpfully.
I object to the prevalent atti­
tude among students towards 
work. The majority of students 
see the classwork as an annoy­
ance; one of the more common 
conversations on campus is about 
how much work there is to do. 
Many people do have too much 
work; others see the work as bull­
shit. Moreover, most of the work 
is mandatory and, hence, becomes 
a task to be grudgingly done, of­
ten creating a bad attitude to­
wards work. The amount of work 
is such that, for many individuals 
it infringes and removes much of 
the fun and enjoyment that a stu­
dent needs and deserves. Free 
time is necessary to ease tension 
and anxiety. When the quantity of 
work reaches a point it becomes 
qualitatively counter-productive. 
Unfortunately, this point is reach­
ed too often at CMU.
Pressure is not a prerequisite to 
learning. I discovered this when I 
took a year off on leave of ab­
sence and attended the Art Stu­
dent’s League of New York (ASL) 
for four months. ASL is unaccre­
dited, has no grades, and no re­
quirements. Students enter and 
leave courses as they choose. 
There is no assigned work or dead­
lines. If a student doesn’t like an 
instructor he can change courses 
within five minutes if he desires. 
This atmosphere emphasized self- 
motivation. I learned more about 
the quality of work at the ASL in 
four months than at CMU in four 
years. I learned to enjoy my work 
and found that other people were 
naturally interested in talking 
about it. I learned that without in­
tense interpersonal competition, 
individuals were willing to help 
each other. My instructors spoke 
honestly about my work; praised 
the good and criticised the bad. I 
did not receive the frequent non­
constructive criticism of my work, 
as I had at CMU. Probably the 
best thing was that at ASL, people 
were able to say what they liked 
about my work. My point is not 
that CMU should adopt ASL’s 
methods but that intense pressure 
inhibits learning the value of qual­
ity in work.
When I returned to CMU, my 
increased self-motivation was ev­
idenced by a noticable rise in my 
QPA. Carnegie-Mellon did not 
teach me how to like my work,
but it did teach me how to work 
hard. Also, I learned a skill that 
enabled me to get a job. Unfor­
tunately, during this career or­
iented curriculm, no time was ta­
ken for professional ethics. At no 
time does one learn to give a 
damn about his peers or his fellow 
workers. The only message is,“to 
take advantage of the other guy if 
it helps you”. Implicitly, everyone 
is being taught the pursuit of 
money, status, and position. CMU 
is contributing to the depersonali­
zation of its students by allowing 
this attitude to dominate our 
thinking about others. How will 
our students develop a sense of 
fairness if CMU doesn’t attempt 
to instill a sense of caring?
One outgrowth of this attitude 
is that CMU is a socially cold en­
vironment. It is difficult to make 
friends h*re. People are frequently 
too busy to stop and talk. This 
campus is an atypical part of the 
city in that strangers don’t smile 
and say hello. People here are very 
preturbed if you try to be friend­
ly. It certainly would be pleasant 
if members of this community 
would smile and be more open.
It is also difficult to meet peo­
ple outside your own department. 
I feel more chances to meet other 
individuals in the school are need­
ed. The creation of a recreation 
center and student union would 
allow for more social contact.
The lack of an adequate stu­
dent union reflects the administra­
tion’s calousness regarding the
campus’ physical environment. 
The most common example of 
this negligence is the painting of 
campus buildings. The paint color 
of the first floor hallway in Mar­
garet Morrison is disgusting. I still 
ponder the usefulness of painting 
the gym windows, or why the bea­
utiful polychrome ceiling in the 
sculpture studio in fine arts (now 
the drama shop) was painted 
white. Are the painters trying to 
paint everything that doesn’t 
move? Are they supervised? What 
happens if they make a big mis­
take like the sculpture studio? 
Why don’t they leave some 
woodwork unpainted? The third 
floor of Margaret Morrison has 
been pleasantly left with the or­
iginal woodwork not painted. I 
will be very disappointed if in sev­
eral years I find the woodwork on 
the third floor of Margaret Mor­
rison painted.
Another dubious administra­
tive policy is reflected in depart­
mental fund allocation. The com­
puter center gets several new 
computers, yet the music depart­
ment finds difficulty in getting a 
new piano. It is implicit, that in 
order to maintain excellency, due 
to the lack of grants and outside 
gifts to the arts, the University 
must supplement the arts more 
than the sciences.
In the future, if the University 
can be more responsive to criti­
cism by former students, the CMU 
campus would not only improve, 
but alumni relations could im­
prove significantly.___________more Letters
line when the Father, the Son, 
and the Holy Ghost were men­
tioned. All that I am asking is 
that in the future when programs 
are held some consideration should 
be given to the non-Christians 
that will participate in them. I 
am happy to say that the mistakes 
made are not the rule but the ex­
ception but none the less should 
not have occurred. One final note, 
although the mistakes hindered 
my enjoyment of the Banquet, I 
still thought the evening went 
very well.
Neal K. Kushner
More Effective Government 
Editor:
As a senior, I am happily 
leaving CMU, but before I do, I 
feel I must comment on the 
broad subject of Student Gov­
ernment. And I do not mean 
the Student Senate structure 
solely, but also the other re­
sponsible governing bodies-UFO, 
SDC, and CCCP. I feel that 
I must also mention my qualif­
ications to speak on this topic. 
I have been extensively involved 
with SDC and Student Senate 
for three years. I mention this to 
avoid the label that may be placed 
on me as an uninformed, in­
experienced fanatic.
The major feature of the 
student body here is that it is 
not united. The present president 
of Student Government, John 
Tumazos, has also voiced his 
concern with this unfortunate 
characteristic. But our agreement 
goes no further than this basic
fact. Tumazos suggests that the 
way to unite the campus is to 
make the Student Senate stronger. 
Yet in recent months, the Senate 
has been very unpopular. UFO, 
SDC, WRCT, the TARTAN, most 
other major campus organizations, 
and countless intelligent individ­
ual students have proclaimed 
their extreme displeasure with the 
Senate’s policies and actions. It 
is obvious that the Senate is the 
most disunifying organization on 
campus. Yet Tumazos wants to 
give it more power. A stronger 
Senate will just result in a less 
united student body.
I think there is a better way to 
unite the students (and thus, 
deal with the administration more 
effectively). We should utilize the 
present governing bodies (exclud­
ing Senate) in a more coherent 
way. SDC should handle the 
issues which affect solely dorm 
students (including graduate dorm 
students); UFO should handle the 
issues which affect solely frat­
ernity and sorority members; and 
CCCP (which, admittedly, has 
to be improved) should handle 
commuter affairs. It is truly 
illogical to have a Senate over­
lapping the power of these al­
ready functional and representa­
tive governing bodies.
But what about those issues 
which are campus-wide (e.g^: 
academic affairs)? And who will 
fund the small organizations, like 
Karate Club, and the large, 
independent organizations, like 
WRCT and the TARTAN? My 
answer is this: create a central 
board with proportional represen­
tation from dorms, fraternities 
(and sororities), and commuters. 
For example, if 40% of the stu­
dents live in dormitories, create 
four seats on the central board 
for dorm residents or SDC rep­
resentatives; if 40% of the stu­
dents live in fraternities and sor­
orities, create four seats on the 
central board for Greeks or 
UFO representatives; and if 20% 
of the students commute, have 2 
seats on the board for commuters 
or CCCP representatives. The 
proportioning of the seats will of 
course vary depending on where 
the students live each year). 
And that is all that is on the 
central board. (Further details 
can be worked out later). This 
new central board will receive 
the money from the Student 
Activities Fees and will allocate 
it in a much more representa­
tive manner than under the 
present system.
My idea for a new student 
government may appear a bit 
unusual but I believe it would be 
a major improvement over the 
present system. There is really 
no need to have the overlapping 
Senate structure, filled with its 
pseudo-politicians and pseudo­
leaders. It makes for a very in­
efficient system, ft is time the 
power was shifted to groups 
which actually represent people 
and actually do real work. These 
groups are UFO, SDC, and CCCP.
Being a senior, I will not be 
here next year to fight for my 
proposals. But I would like to 
see Carolyn Welty, the President 
of SDC, Jim Gladys, the head of
UFO, and whoever is the current 
leader of CCCP get together and 
make plans to bring about these 
changes (if they agree with them, 
that is). I‘ believe that a fairly- 
run referendum would accomplish 
this goal.
I wish all future CMU student 
leaders great luck. The students’ 
battle to get their demands met 
by the administration must never 
end. ’
Samuel R. GVego 
Input
Editor:
Although there wti „ some 
awkward procedural and commu­
nication problems connected with 
the deliberations of the AMS 
Curriculum Committee (on which 
I served), for which the Commit­
tee and Dean Kaplan must share 
responsibility, I would like to 
dispel the impression that the 
Dean ran rough shod over his 
faculty in agreeing in principle 
to certain changes in the AMS 
program. The future of the 
AMS program has been discussed 
at length by the GSIA Policy 
Committee, and at general faculty 
meetings. The changes that Dean 
Kaplan agreed to were consistent 
with the views of most of the 
GSIA faculty. They were also 
consistent with the pattern that 
had been discussed and accepted 
by the majority of the AMS 
Curriculum Committee. My un­
derstanding is that there has 
been no commitment to drop 
the advanced courses and that 
the final form of the AMS Cur­
riculum is still to be determined.
I expect that the AMS Curriculum 
will continue to change in re­
sponse to the views and exper­
ience of interested faculty and 
students.
Myron L. Joseph 
Prof. of Economics and I.A.
GSIALooked Over
Editor:
The attitude toward our intra­
mural program showed by Mr. 
Banner, the school’s Athletic Dir­
ector, appalls me. Presently CMU 
is building up its varsity sports 
program. The increase in emphasis 
on varsity level sports has de­
creased the availability of facil­
ities for the intramural program.
On several occasions I have ap­
proached Mr. Banner to discuss 
the situation. I explained to him 
my view of college sports. I con­
tend that on any level the reason 
for sports at CMU is for recrea­
tion (fun). The difference be­
tween varsity and intramural sports 
is the level of the competition and 
thus the abilities of the partici­
pants. Because of this, varsity com­
petition is for a select minority 
while the majority participate in 
intramurals. I believe that all stu­
dents should have equal oppor­
tunity to participate on their own 
level. Since the majority are in­
volved in intramurals and the min­
ority in varsity it is unfair for the 
intramural program to suffer while 
varsity program is catered to.
He disagreed.
This year not a single major 
intramural sport went unharrassed. 
Football games had to be played

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
later at night so the varsity foot­
ball and soccer teams could prac­
tice. The neighbors complained 
about the late night noise from 
the IM games. For the second sea­
son in a row the softball season 
has been cut short so the practice 
field could be prepared for next 
year’s Tartan football season. Mr. 
Banner claims, “It creates a good 
learning situation.” The unfortun­
ate part is that now that the sea­
son is ended early, the fields lay 
unused and no work is being done.
Yesterday when I talked to 
Mr. Banner about the situation he 
said, “I’m sick of talking to you 
about it.” He also said that he 
doesn’t care what I think anyway. 
That probably goes for the rest 
of you students, too.
In the past the Athletic Depart­
ment and the Intramural Program 
were separate each having its own 
budget and director. The IM Dir­
ector was aided in running the 
program by a group of students, 
the IM Board. The Intramural 
Board was in charge of allocating 
the budget in a democratic man­
ner, a job they were quite capable 
of doing.
Today the programs are com­
bined under the control of the 
Athletic Director. Now we are not 
even allowed to know what our 
budget is, never mind allocate it.
This new system doesn’t work 
as well as the old one so why 
keep it. Change isn't progress un­
less it is an improvement. If we 
changed back to the old system 
both programs could exist with­
out interference. Best of'all no 
bull-headed people like Mr. Ban­
ner and myself would have to 
change their values and we could 
stop yelling at each other. ?
Paul Duff 
IM Board PresidentInterracial Relations
Editor:
The April 23 issue of the 
TARTAN quoted Dr. Marion 
Oliver, C-MAP Director as “ac­
knowledging ‘Blacks and Whites 
will never be in love with each 
other”. I would like to suggest 
that perhaps Dr. Oliver’s level of 
expectations regarding racial rela­
tions may be unnecessarily low. 
Many individual blacks and whites 
have always cared for each other 
even under adverse conditions 
such as slavery or legally enforced 
segregation. With the removal of 
institutional barriers to close rela­
tionships and the additional spur 
of government-enforced integra­
tion since 1964, opportunities for 
black-white relationships have 
massively increased. The tensions 
created by implementing this im­
portant but very recent social 
change should not obscure either 
the historical reality of frequent 
affectional relationships between 
blacks and whites, but also their 
much greater frequency in the 
more integrated recent decade.
Susan Van Horn
Graduate Student in History
Editor:
Your April 25 issue quotes Dr. 
Marion Oliver: “1 teach a fresh1 
man Calculus class in a large lec­
ture hall and next year I plan to 
seat the students in alphabetical
order, the odds of blacks and 
whites sitting together increases 
significantly. We need more 
chances for blacks and whites to 
interact.” I think this is an ab­
surd plan. Imposition of element­
ary school techniques on univer­
sity level students is insulting and 
degrading, independent of the 
worth of the social goal offered 
as justification. I shall be sadden­
ed if such a plan is implemented 
and accepted by the university 
community without question.
J.F.Hoburg 
Assistant Professer of 
Electrical Engineering
Who's Fault?
Editor:
The following is a reply to 
Jeffrey Freeman (TARTAN letter 
to Editor, April 25);
In your letter, I get the feeling 
that you were trying to complain 
about Housing. But, you only 
succeeded in complaining about 
the vandalism done to your car. 
When you moved off campus, you 
should've taken the trouble to 
find a safe place for your car.
I resent your wasting the time 
of TARTAN readers complaining 
about your problem. You made 
the decision to move off campus, 
so you should maturely try to 
find a solution to your problem, 
not whine about it.
I also resent your specifically 
mentioning that it was a “black 
person” who vandalized your 
car. You obviously do come from 
a “small conservative town.” 
Name witheld 
by request
Absurd
Editor:
The TARTAN has improved 
greatly in the past few weeks, and 
has done an excellent job in cap­
turing the spirit of CMU.
Yet in the middle of this re" 
juvinated paper lies its only sore 
thumb-the editorial page. The 
opinion entitled “Revamped 
Registration” was absurd. The 
proposed “arena registration” 
would not reduce chaos, but only 
serve to heighten it. A lottery to 
pick times for this registration 
would be a great inconvenience. 
For example, if a person got a 
time of 4:00 PM he would have 
little chance of signing for his 
required courses, never mind 
the electives he wanted. An AMS 
major registering at 4:00 PM 
wouldn't have a chance.
I believe registration is on the 
right track now. More depart­
ments should take the lead of 
AMS and others and pre-register 
their majors, then allow other 
students to sign up the next day. 
1 find the registration here simple 
and efficient and far better than 
any other I have seen at other 
schools.
Not only was last week’s 
editorial a debuchery, but so was 
this week's entitled “Our Genera­
tion and the Holocaust”. The 
TARTAN contends that Ameri­
cans sat back and did nothing 
while the Nazis killed six million 
Jews. I would not call WW1I 
nothing.
We sent the largest military 
force ever assembled to fight 
the Nazis and stop their atrocities. 
The American public’s support of
a war effort was unsurpassed in 
U.S. history. War bonds were 
sold out within days of their 
issue. Housewives built bombers. 
What more could Americans do to 
fight the Nazis? Does the 
TARTAN wish that women and 
children would have climbed in 
rowboats and fought the Nazis 
with their bare hands? Another 
absurd editorial.
Paul Henderson, ‘79
Setting the Record Straight
Editor:
I was quite chagrined to read 
in the April 25, 1978 TARTAN 
article entitled, “CIT, GSIA lead 
in Placements*’, that only 77% 
of the 1977 SUPA graduating 
class had been “placed”. If we 
are in an inter-collegiate race, 
then we should be ever vigilant 
in our scorekeeping.
Of the 31 students graduating 
from the 1977 SUPA Master’s 
class, 30 are gainfully employed. 
They have, incidentally, gained 
more in annual income than is 
indicated by the salary survey 
chart published in the TARTAN. 
Alas, the 31st student elected to 
pursue a Ph.D. program at MIT 
We can only guess what he is 
gaining.
SUPA, like GSIA, maintains 
its own placement office, there­
fore all our graduates report 
their job offers directly to that 
office. I just wanted to keep the 
“record” straight.
Leatrice Gurtin 
Director of Admissions 
SUPA
A Hearty Thanks 
Editor:
Now that the academic year 
is drawing to a close I wish to 
thank all those American students 
who have made the effort and 
taken the time to meet, go out 
with, or simply offeT directions to 
foreign students at the Trans 
lation and English Language 
Center. Many American students 
have by simply showing an inter­
est, greatly contributed to the 
cultural and social assimilation 
of our foreign students.
In particular, I wish to ex­
press' my appreciation to the 
American hosts, roommates, and 
others for the Libyan students 
who helped make the first half 
of the program a success. The 
contribution made by these 
American students was largely and 
directly responsible for the 
relatively smooth adjustment 
period experienced by the Libyan 
students during the first few 
weeks and months of their stay 
in the dormitories here at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
The success of the program 
thus far and positive reception on 
campus has been most encourag­
ing for me personally. On behalf 
of the faculty and staff of the 
Translation and English Language 
Center we thank you for your 
support. !
Douglas C. Coutts 
Assistant Director 
Foreign Student Counselor
What's Going On 
Editor: i
Will there be a meeting of the 
deans of CIT, MIS and H&SS on 
Friday (4/28) to discuss the
changing of the H&SS require­
ments for MIS and CIT students? 
I remember that something to this 
effect was discussed at the depart­
ment meeting for freshmen math 
majors, but I have not heard of 
anything since.
If I heard wrong, there are still 
a few points about changing the
• H&SS requirements for CIT and 
MIS students which bother me.
* First of all, if there is a change, 
would only incoming freshmen be 
affected or would upperclassmen 
have to alter their schedules?
With all the rumors flying a- 
round, 1 would like to know what 
is going on. I hope someone can 
tell me.
Colin Clement
And Now the UFO. .
Editor:
I am writing this letter in re­
gard to an article written by Mr. 
John Tumazos in the April 25 is­
sue of the TARTAN entitled the 
“President’s Piece.” It seems ob­
vious to me after reading the arti­
cle that many of his claims were 
unjustified. I, as a concerned 
member of the Greek System, 
would like to clear up some points 
of his letter and attack other 
points he made.
At the beginning of the letter, 
Mr. Tumazos claims he voted a- 
gainst funding the Watermelon 
Bash “because the event was to be 
held in fraternity square.” I per­
sonally do not see where the loca­
tion of the event plays any part in 
the decision to fund an event as 
long as it is open to everyone. If 
a party is held in Morewood for 
the whole campus, I would not 
vote against funding it on the 
basis that it was a closed party for 
Morewood residents.
Later in the letter, he claims 
that the Activities Fee (which 
Greeks pay also)—“should not 
finance closed social organiza­
tions’ parties.” Once again, I claim 
that the Watermelon Bash is open 
to everyone. I have never, in my 
three years here, seen anyone 
being refused a seat at the Water­
melon Bash. Is this his definition 
of a closed social organizations’ 
parties? It is not mine. I also feel 
that the Watermelon Bash is a 
necessary event to help Freshmen 
get adjusted to being at school 
through making friends and gen­
erally being in a friendly atmos­
phere.
I was also distressed with Mr. 
Tumazos’ description of the 
Finance Committee meeting and 
the Senate Meeting at which the 
Bash budget was passed. If the 
meetings were poorly attended, 
maybe someone should look into 
an alternate method of getting 
better attendance at these meet­
ings instead of accusing UFO sen­
ators of voting themselves money. 
When the budget was rescinded, 
Mr. Tumazos claims that “UFO 
then petitioned for a general cam­
pus election so they could once 
again vote themselves money.” 
The only factual part of this com­
ment is that UFO did petition for 
a general campus election. When I 
checked with the school, I found 
that there are 670 Greeks out of a 
total full time enrollment of
3300. Thus approximately 20% of 
the campus is Greek. I can not 
agree with a statement that says 
20% of the campus can vote them­
selves money in a general campus 
election. I realize election tum- 
puts on campus are low, but 1 am 
sure that the campus will turn out
to vote if they feel someone is try­
ing to vote themselves money.
Mr. Tumazos claims that 
“many individuals are concerned 
that 9 of the 24 senators belong 
to fraternities or sororities.” I can 
not see where these numbers are 
so out of proportion. Also, if that 
many individuals were concerned 
fwhich 1 claim is not true, but 
only used by Mr. Tumazos for the 
sake of argument), how did this 
many Greeks get elected unless 
people thought that they would 
do a good job? He then proceeds 
to state, “that six belong to one 
house, ZBT.” Once again, I can 
not see anything wrong with this. 
If the brothers of ZBT are that in­
terested in campus affairs to get 
six senators elected from their 
house, more power to them. I 
think the campus may need more 
people that are interested like the 
brothers of ZBT. Brothers of 
ZBT—keep up the good work.
Also in the letter, Mr. Tumazos 
claims- that “the United Fraternal 
Organization has created a new of­
ficer, “Senate Coordinator”, 
whose purpose is to work to place 
UFO’s people in Senate.” This 
statement is an outright lie in that 
no- new officer was created by 
UFO. In the UFO constitution a 
standing committee exists called 
Student Government. It is my un­
derstanding that this committee is 
responsible for affairs between 
UFO and the Student Govern­
ment. If this is the “new officer” 
Mr. Tumazos is referring to, I am 
sorry Mr. Tumazos, but this 
committee has existed probably 
before you came to this school. I 
think Mr. Tumazos only listens to 
people who say what he wants to 
hear. I believe if I told him tomor­
row that the Greeks were going to 
take over the campus, he would 
believe me because he seems to 
think this is happening. Mr. Tu­
mazos, I think you owe UFO an 
apology for accusing them of 
packing Senate through the fic­
tional new officer.
Near the end of the letter, Mr. 
Tumazos claims that “student or­
ganizations must not discriminate 
in membership” in order to be 
able to be funded. At one point in 
a Student Senate meeting, he 
pointed out fraternities as discrim­
inatory organizations. 1 propose 
that fraternities are no more selec­
tive than other funded organiza­
tions on campus.
Finally, Mr. Tumazos claims 
“the fraternal Greeks must realize 
that they are literally forcing inde­
pendent candidates to form their 
own political party.” 1 am sorry, 
Mr. Tumazos, but 1 feel that you 
are causing the campus to split 
more than anything else by your
unsubstantiated letters and you 
are only trying to pass the blame.
Mr. Tumazos, please, in the fu­
ture, think and substantiate things 
before you put them in black and 
white for all to see. I would vast­
ly appreciate that.
Kenneth K. Gerzsenyi

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS&.CLASSIFIEDADS______
Allegheny Airlines has extended it popular
Saturday Flight Sale from its original ex­
piration date of March 19, 1978 to March 
19, 1979. Under this discount fare plan, a 
passenger departing on Saturday and re­
turning before 12:01 PM the following day 
can take advantage of a 50 percent dis­
count below the normal coach fare. Intro­
duced January 7 of this year, this discount 
applies to all of Allegheny's domestic and 
Canadian flights.
Students and faculty members have 
taken advantage of this discount fare for 
weekend trips home, sports events and so­
cial gatherings.
Wanted! Summer lifeguards and tennis
court attendants, work/study only. Athletic 
Office—gym I02.
In recognition of Mother's Day, CARE's
Pittsburgh Office has launched a special 
Mother's Day campaign to send food and 
other- aid to homeless, hungry children 
overseas.
Contributions of $2.00 or more, 
together with your mother's name, address 
and instructions as to how the card should 
be signed, can be sent to CARE, 
Kaufmann's, Pittsburgh, Pa. I52I9. CARE 
will send a special Mother's Day card to 
your mother and will distribute relief aid 
to needy children around the world. 
The supply of 1977-79 Undergraduate Cat­
alogs has been depleted. I therefore need 
your help. Since the new 1979-81 Under­
graduate Catalog will be distributed to all 
undergraduates next fall during enrollment,
I would like to collect as many of the cur­
rent catalogs as possible from students be­
fore they leave for summer vacation. The 
1977-79 catalog is of j-ittle use to current 
students but can still be put to good use by 
the Admissions Office. If students would 
bring copies of the 1977-79 Undergraduate 
Catalog. . .(the white book with the brown 
CMU logo on the cover) to the Admissions 
Office, first floor of Warner Hall, it would 
be most appreciated.
William Shatner fans. Limited. number
of Shatner "Live" albums available. Call 
687-3377 after 4 PM.
Found: Radio at Buggy Prelims. Contact
TARTAN office because we lost the find­
ers name and number.
FLEA MARKET at University of Pitts­
burgh Student Union Thursday and Fri­
day, May 4 and 5, 10 AM-6 PM. Crafts, 
collectibles, clothing, food, plants, used 
books for sale to benefit Pitt/Oakland 
YMCA's community service program.
1 furnished bedroom apt. for rent. Wil- 
Kens Ave. Subsidized in exchange for
light maintainence in apt. house. Excel­
lent opportunity for thrifty student. 
687-7315.
Musician needed-paid position available
with Park Players. Sax/reed player with 
jazz background. Ten weeks, full time 
employment. Contact Charles Gilbert, 323- 
2230 or 322-8304.
Apt. to sublet. May to Sept. Security
system, intercom. Parking space, modern 
kitchen. I large bedroom, large living room.
3 blocks from CMU. Rent negotiable. Call 
683-1490.
Thanks to everyone for the fence last
week. It was great. It figures from 5-D and 
friends. Love, Tara.
Typing—everything, 95 cents a page.
487-46II.
Swami Rama will appear at Chatham
College, Coolidge Hall (across from Chapel) 
room I35. He will speak on the subject of 
"Karma, Reincarnation and Relation­
ships", Friday, May 5, 8 PM, and Saturday, 
May 6, 10 AM and 2 PM, and Sunday, May 
7, at l:30 PM.
TOYOTA 73 (Corolla 1600). Recently in­
spected: AM-FM radio; engine in excellent 
shape; snow tires. 271-9486 after 7:00 PM.
The Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes.
Avenue, will present the works of Katrin 
Miller Braun, Seth Dickerman, and Rick 
Freed (drawings, prints, and paintings) 
through May 7. The Gallery is open Wed­
nesday to Sunday, 12 to 4 PM, and Tues­
day to Thursday evenings, 7 to 9 PM.
Alone and pregnant? A confidential,
caring friend, Lifeline, 341-3322. Free preg­
nancy testing available.
EUROPE: Less than 14 economy fare.
Guaranteed reservations. Call toll free, 
800-325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
UniTravel Charters.
Your own room! Female roomate needed.
Inexpensive Shadyside apartment. 10 min­
ute walk. September lease. 687-2641.
Overweight? Having trouble controlling
your eating? University Overeaters 
Anonymous meets Mondays at 7.30 at 
the University and City Ministries Building, 
Fifth and Bellefield. No dues or fees. We 
care.
Head's Together needs someone with ac­
cess to a van or large station wagon to de­
liver waterbeds. Apply to Carol Pusic at 
Head's Together, 19-14 Murray Ave. in 
Squirrel Hill. 521-8262.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT AT CMU: The 
CMU Finance Division needs five students 
for Data Entry Clerk positions. Salary is 
$3.25 and duties are to convert, enter and 
test data for a new payroll personnel sys­
tem. Contact the Student Employment 
Office, 212 Warner Hall.
WANTED VENDING ASSISTANT- Mech­
anical skills, must be able to type. 20-24 
flexible hrs. per wk., also to cover mana­
gers vacation. Good rate. Call John Halla- 
day for interview. Ext. 2138.
FREE T-SHIRTS
rrrr-i• • ••¦•••'-.Vi
YOU DESERVE A
September roommate wanted. Female. Sin­
gle room in apt. on 5th. 3 blocks from 
campus. Call before May 6, 683-7069.
FOR SALE: Honda, 76 CVCC, 4-speed, 
radials, AM-FM stereo, excellent condi­
tion. Call 661-9341 after 7 PM. 
Congratulations Concrete Canoe Team on 
another successful season of construction 
and racing!!!
Interested in becoming a Peer Helper? The
Peer Help Councelling Staff will be hold­
ing an 8-week training period to commence 
in September, 1978. If interested, please 
leave name, address, and phone number at 
the Peer Help Office, 150-A Baker Hall or 
call 621-9900 or ext. 2904.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Royal Pres­
tige has summer work available. Twelve 
weeks guaranteed. $200/wk. and up. For 
more information come to Skibo Room 
11, May 3, at 1 PM, 1 ;30 PM, and 3:30 
PM.
THE TRANSACTIONAL ANALYSIS
(T.A.) meeting will be Thursday May 11, 
1978 from 8—10 PM at 2118 Beechwood 
Ave. Monroeville, Pa. All Interested 
persons can call 372-3228.
THE MID CITY PITTSBURGH T.A. SEM­
INAR will be held Sunday May 21, 1978 
from 2—4 PM at 350 South Braham Ave. 
Shadyside. Anyone needing directions can 
call 828-2550 or 441-7007.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, April 17, 1978. .
The IMAGINARIUM of the Museum of 
Art is an integrated arts laboratory design­
ed to interpret the museum's collection for 
all ages. This May the IMAGINARIUM will 
hold three "Spring fests" in the museum 
for families and friends. These special inter- 
generational events will celebrate the paint­
ings and sculpture in the museum's collec­
tion through dance, music and visual arts 
experiences.
You may register for one of the three 
dates offered by calling the Children's 
Room at 622-3214 or 622-3144. The fee 
is $5.00 for Carnegie Institute members 
and $8.00 for non-members and will cover 
any group up to six. The Spring fests will 
take place on Saturdays, May 6, 13 and 20 
from 10:30-12:30 PM.
Babysitter wanted. Days in Squirrel Home.
Call 422-8118.
Audio components, televisions, car stereos,
CB's. Save up to 60%. Call Rick, 673-9368.
LOST: Gazorch; Denim Pouch, Black
Rubber Tubing; I.M. Field.R.Zimmermann
682-8526.
Help wanted. Part-time. Selling records,
tapes, clothing, waterbeds, at Head's To­
gether. Apply to Carol Pusic at Head's 
Together, I9I4 Murray Ave. in Squirrel 
Hill. 521-8262.
The Computer Science Department is
looking for interested persons to par­
ticipate in a film making project during 
the summer. If you plan to be in Pitts­
burgh, and are interested, leave a mess­
age for Ralph Guggenheim at extension 
2597. People with prior filmmaking 
experience are preferred.
There will be a series of lectures at Cha­
tham College, Coolidge Hall Room 100. 
Swami Rama will speak Friday evening 
at 8:00 PM on Karma, Reincarnation, 
and Relationships. He will speak Saturday, 
May 6 at 10:00 PM on integrating med­
itation with social life. And again on Sun­
day, May 7 at 1 30 PM on creative living. 
This is sponsored by the Himalayan In­
stitute. The lectures are aimed at inves­
tigating yoga and meditational practicies. 
Dear Michael, We love you. Pils, Wood- 
stock, Grover and Snoopy.
Mark— you handsome thing, you! Can we 
get a ride in your convertible yellow bug? 
Your secret admirers in 7.
Seniors: Get a subscription to the
TARTAN next year. $10/year. Call today 
and avoid the rush!
Final signups for exhibitions at Forbes
Street Gallery next year at Skibo Info 
Desk through Friday.
Gail— Good Luck at NYU next year! We
sure will miss all those wonderful stories. 
Love and XOXOXO, Marshie and Jean. 
Looking for a 2-bed room apartment for
September 1, 1978. Should be close to 
campus and not more than $250/month. 
Call 578-4449 or 361-5268, Jean or 
Dianne.
Michael—Wherever you'll be, you're in my
heart. Love you forever, JPS.
Egghead, I couldn't run Andrew this week,
but let it be known to all that Andrew 
Goetz is the best dog on campus! (he 
taught Luke everything he knows). 
MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS: 
AMCAS packets are available from A. J. 
Streiff in DH 2II4. All applicants for the 
medical school class entering in Fall, I979 
should obtain a packet as soon as possible 
and discuss the procedure for application 
with the premedical advisor.
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will
feature Dwayne Thorpe, Folk Musician, 
playing "Authentic .Folk Music", the 
blues, railroad songs, ballads, gospel 
music, gold rush songs and more. At THE 
ALTERNATIVE Coffee House, Friday, 
May 5, 8 PM through midnight, located 
in the Lutheran University Center, 45I5 
Forbes Ave., Oakland.
RJS. It's early but
RJS, It's early but HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
The summer will be over before we know it 
(I hope).—Chipmunk.
—- ii
¦T"»' T ».,WM ,ii.i,, j,. jrr, , ¡,,.^--1FREE T-SHIRTS
r-SHIRT TODM/
r.rr-i

---------------------------------------------------

TARTANAttrition explained
More TARTAN awards...
continued from page 6
Drama department for their production of “77s a Pity She’s a Whore.”
The ‘‘But is it nutritional” award—to the Skibo tray pickers who eat what 
the rest of us leave behind.
The ‘‘Strategies for Excellence” award-to President Cyert, who has a 
strategy for everything; strategy for walking down steps, for shaking hands, 
for opening doors . . .
The ‘‘Call it what it is” award—to the Morewood desk workers who sit in 
the Morewood chair and keep paper dips in the Morewood drawers . . .
The ‘My show was lousy, but my posters were great” award—to all the 
Forbes Street Gallery artists who put more time into their posters than they 
put into their work.
The “I was always on the honor roll in high school” award—to all the 
lucky students who made the Dean’s List this year.
The "/ cheated on my room draw, and now / want to confess” award—to 
all dormies who deceived the housing office during room retention, and now 
regret their criminality.
The ‘‘SDC-Space-Woman” award—to CMU grad and former Morewood 
resident Judith Resnik, who is now an astronaut.
The ‘‘Boy, he dances better than John Travolta” award—to retiring Drama 
instructor, Paul Draper.
The ‘‘We hope you win the lottery” award—to all graduating Fine Arts 
and H&SS seniors who have not yet found a job.
The “Stay ahead of the Russians” award-to the University for refusing to 
yield to the Russian flu by dosing down the school.
The ‘‘Donner is not a reindeer” award—to the residents of Donner, who 
know what it really is!
The ‘‘Take this job and shove it‘‘ award—to all the work-study students 
who quit their jobs this year.
The ‘‘Weekly apology ” award—to the TARTAN, because if there was an 
issue last Tuesday, you know there’s got to be a retraction or clarification in 
this Tuesday's edition.
Good luck with finals, have a wonderful summer, and look for the TA R- 
TA N in early September.
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in-Chief
continued from page 1
“In fact, . half the students who 
graduate today have been to two pr 
more colleges.”Students leave to wGrk, travel 
There are several reasons why 
students voluntarily withdraw from 
CMU. According to Elliott, the two 
“socially acceptable” reasons are health and finances, though he doubts 
these apply to every student who uses 
them as excuses.
He commented that students are leav­
ing for healthy reasons such as travel, and 
work in an effort to gain outside experi­
ence. “People realize that you don't have 
to finish school in just four years.”
Lloyd added that some students like to 
take advantage of such educational pro­
grams as internships in Washington, and 
semesters abroad.
Then again, some students voluntarily 
withdraw for purely academic reasons. 
“Most students that I know who went to 
other colleges left to study a major we 
don't offer here.” Lloyd finds that few 
students leave to study in programs which 
H&SS offers. The ones that do “look at 
the bigger university as a supermarket, 
with more courses to choose from,” she 
explained. Some people associate quality 
'of a program with quantity of courses. 
Students transfer internally 
Students will transfer internally. In this 
instance, someone in C1T may have liked 
his Freshman Writing course so much that 
he decided to become a writer, Lloyd said. 
Others, like AMS students, were dissatis­
fied widi the organization of their depart­
ment and the narrow scope of their pro­
gram, though Lloyd expects this to change 
in AMS under the new setup. She added 
that this works two ways, referring to stu­
dents transferring out of the college. 
Despite the reputation of H&SS on cam­
pus, however, the number of internal 
transfers int<^ equal the number out of the
college.
Involuntary withdrawals are another story. Elliott stated that “anyone we accept 
to the Unversity we expect can complete 
the program.” Anyone who flunks out, 
he feels, has probably “turned off to the 
University or it turned him off.”
Academic action explained
Both Elliott and Lloyd attribute failure (defined as having below a 2.0 average 
for 2 consecutive semesters) to a lack of 
motivation.
Lloyd described the various procedures 
followed in the instance of an academically 
unsuccessful student. First, a student is 
placed on probation after earning below a 
2.0. He is encouraged to talk to his depart­
ment advisor. Peer Help, and especially his 
instructors. “I ask the student to make a 
contract widi himself, as to how to 
improve his academic standing,” Lloyd 
stated.
If his academic standing remains poor, 
the student is suspended for at least two 
semesters. He can be readmitted after the 
College Council decides if the student is 
ready to return on the basis of the work a 
student does at other institutions, or his 
performance on a job. If a readmitted, 
student continues to do poorly, he is 
expelled. Of the five involuntary with­
drawals from H&SS last semester, two were 
students who were suspended previously.
Lloyd added that academic action is 
considered on an individual basis. A stu­
dent who does poorly due to mitigating 
circumstances will receive light treatment 
from the Council, while one who deliber­
ately flunks out will be dealt with harshly. 
Although academic action usually occurs as 
described, it does not have to. The process 
can be slowed down or sped up.
The time away from CMU, whether 
voluntary dr involuntary, can be beneficial 
to a student. Lloyd told the story of one 
man suspended six years ago.” He returned 
this fall, and is doing beautifully,” she 
reported.
GOOD LUCK WITH FINAL EXAMS!!!
From University Food Service
When you're up all night studying and the late night munchies hit—Take a 
break with us.
THE KILTIE CAFE WILL BE OPEN FROM
9 PM. TO 6 AM____
Sunday, May 7th 
Monday, May 8th 
Tuesday, May 9th 
Wednesday, May 10th
Coffee, tea, and other beverages are free to contract holders. Snack 
foods will be sold.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 12—TARTAN—May'2, 1978
I was in the Morewood lobby the other day, catching a little flack from a friend because I had to microwave a carton of frozen yogurt before I could eat it. My only consolation was that in two weeks, I'd be home and away from this madness. A girl at the C-Tower elevator turned to me and smiled. "No, that's not quite right/' she said. "This is a step beyond madness. We're all so numb we can't feel it anymore. I'm looking for­ward to feeling again." And with that, she was gone.So have a prosperous finals week and a lovely summer, and most of all never forget that keep­ing touch with the world is the only way to cope with it. See you in September!Love, Karen Ann
TARTAN FOUO
MAY 2, 1978/VOLUME ll/ISSUE 13:
LOOKING BACK AND LOOKING AHEAD
EDITOR: K.A. YAKSICH ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE ART DIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
LISA AMOWITZ KATE BERTRAND VAVA BUITENKANT ANDY EPSTEIN STEVEN P. KABLE BRIAN KING JEFFREY MARTINEZ MATT MURRAY PETE PALMER MARK PIE LA LINDA RIAN JAMES SEPELAK ROBERT ZIMMERMANN
COVER DESIGN: SCOTT POLLACK
by Robert Zimmermann
Chapter 1High above the peaceful desert world, Pittoine, a raging battle was taking place. The Student cruiser Morewood had been boarded by the Administration ship Warner. Maintenance men in green molded body armor poured into the More­wood and rounded up suspects. However, the per­son they sought, Princess Delta Orgamma, was on the sixth level frantically programming two 'droids. When at last she had finished, she placed Ti-eye Fifty-Eight and Aitchpee Twenty-Five in their cases. Then she ejected them through the fire escape pod.Within seconds, the green men had closed in on her and dragged her downstairs to the interroga­tion area. There, she was met by the terrifyingform of Darth Swank. Swank was a Techie in the days of the Institute until he was seduced by the dark side of the Cut, an area which bound all the inhabitants. Now, he acted as a lieutenant in the President's University.The prestigious Institute seemed unassailable from without, yet was crumbling from within, when a Professor, Richard Cyert declared himself President and the Institute became a University. Since then, the Student Senate had been dis­banded, and the President ruled with an iron hand. Now the student leaders were mere puppets under the President."Darth Swank, I should have known you would be behind this! The SDC will hear about your attack on this dorm," said the Princess."The President has stripped SDC of all power," replied Swank, "It will do you no good. Now, where are the plans for Science Hail?""I'll never tell!"
Chapter 2Somewhere below the Morewood, the two 'droids hit the ground, where they were captured by Pitt people. Pittians are short, broad, not very bright, and usually live in tall, dark, Gothic tow­ers. One particular Pittian was thoroughly confused by the two 'droids, and did the logical thing."Psst, buddy," he said, "you wanna buy a 'droid?""Who me?" said Nuke Heavywater, a poor en­gineering major from the backwoods of Pittoine."Yeah, you.""Can I, Uncle Ben?"Uncle Ben, not knowing that University spies would soon bill him for the purchase, agreed. So Nuke went back to his dorm with Ti-eye and Aitchpee.That evening, as he was using Ti-eye to do his Economics homework, he noticed a program buried deep in memory. Running the program,
he was instructed to contact a Mr. Hugh-D-Wan Young."Boy, she's beautiful. What a program! Too bad there's no one named Hugh-D-Wan around here. Unless it means Professor Hugh D. Young. Maybe I should go see him."Meanwhile, aboard the newly completed Science Hall, Darth Swank interrogated Princess Delta."Tell me where the plans are, or I will reduce your dorm to a pile of rubble!""Is that a promise or a threat?""Let me try," said Grand Moff Dillon. "Pretty please with strawberries and sugar on top?""Enough!" bellowed the Dark Lord. "Where are the plans?""Do you think for one moment that anything you say could get me to reveal where the plans are hidden? Are you really trying to get me to fink on my friends? No way!""Then we will withhold your grades!""The plans are in TI-58 and HP-25, two 'droids thrown out of 6-D Morewood. Anything else you want to know?"
Chapter 3Nuke steered his Chevy landspeeder west to the land of the Squirrel Hill people. He hoped that he would not meet any of these residents of Pittoine, for communication with them was close to impossible. Still, Aitchpee could translate some of their "youn's" and "redd up's." Cruising among the wooden buildings that they called home, he pulled up to one with organ pipes sticking through the roof/ !wCAfter a few short knocks, a tall thin man opened the door."Hugh-D-Wan Young?" asked Nuke."Shush. If the University heard you call me that, I'd lose my tenure. Quickly now, come inside."Nuke then explained the situation."Well, we must get the 'droids to Princess Or­gamma or all is lost," said Hugh-D-Wan."Count me out, I've got a Calc III test tomor­row.""Nonsense." Hugh-D-Wan reached into a draw­er. "Here is something for you, Nuke." he handed the boy a slide rule. "It belonged to your father.""My dad worked in a car wash in Detroit.""Kid, you're hopless. Come, we must arrange passage to the rebel base on Wherret.""How are we going to do that?""I was going to go to a bar, but you're under 21, so we'll go to the Tartan Grill."Young then picked up an overhead projector, and hung it on his belt.
Chapter 4Nuke and Hugh-D-Wan entered with the 'droids. The Grill was a swarming nest, filled with the lowest forms of semi-humanity. A south-side four-eyed nerd brushed by them on his way to class. They walked past two tall Penndots, and approached a brown, furry jock and his short companion."Hi. I'm Hi Solong, no cracks about the name. I'm the best buggy driver this side of Pilam. Why,I did the Schenley course in 0.73 kilometers.""We're traveling to Wherret. How much?""Nine credits.""Three units.""It's a deal.""Fine. Do you accept bus passes?"On the way out, Young was accosted by a Pittian. He whipped out the projector and shined the light in the Pittian's face."I can't see!"

---------------------------------------------------

May 2, 1978—TARTAN—page 13
Young hit him over the head with the pro­jector. "That will teach you not to attack a master of the Cut"Shortly, as they reached the buggy-port..."You call that a buggy? It couldn't even pass the capability test!" said Nuke."She may not look like much, but she'll do point eight past hill three," replied Solong. "She's the Millenium Buttress."Just then, three furry jocks came into the room."Allow me to introduce Huey, Dewy and Chewey," said Solong. "They're our push team.""I just hope their last name isn't Bacca," thought Hugh-D-Wan.All of a sudden, two Tartanburgers came whiz­zing by overhead."We'll all be killed!" shouted Hugh-D-Wan."Don't worry yourself," replied Hi. "Only the good die, Young.""Huey, heat up the wheels. Stand by for initial push-off........1.....2.....3.......push."The Buttress lurched forward and left the University Troopers in a cloud of dust. As they reached the top of the hill, Nuke asked, "Why aren't we going into Hyper-roll?""Look kid, if you push-off too soon you could run into a horizontal bar or something. All right, I've got the roll plotted, ready Dewey?"The trees dopplered out of phase as the But­tress jumped into hyper-roll.
Chapter 5Aboard the Buttress, Hugh-D-Wan was instruc­ting Nuke in the proper use of his father's slide rule."I just can't get the hang of it, Hugh-D-Wan.""Stretch out your fingers Nuke, or you'll wind up in a car wash like your father...ouch.""Was there a great stirring on the Cut?""No, something minor. Frisbee, I think.""You're both crazy," said Solong as he entered, "give me a decent calculator over than ancient sliderule any day! Strap yourselves in, we're about to enter the chute and leave hyper-roll."As the buggy slowed down, Hi found himself amid a pile of pebbles."Well, they either reduced Wherret to dust, or someone didn't sweep the course this morning," said Solong."Or you turned out over Panther Hollow," countered Nuke."Grog." said Chewey."In the glove compartment," answered Solong. On the horizon, a large form appeared."That must be Wherret," said Solong."Too big," said Hugh-D-Wan.. "A moon?""Try again.""Science Hall?""Yep. Let's get out of here.""Too late. They already have us surrounded by their electric carts.""We're trapped!" cried Nuke."Bright boy," said Solong."Grog," said Chewey."Later," said Solong."I've got a plan," declared Hugh-D-Wan, whipping out his china markers and activating his overhead projector.
Chapter 6The fifth-floor lobby doors opened as the carts towed in the seemingly empty buggy."I can't find them anywhere, Captain. You want I should smash it?" asked a Greenman."No, we got into too much trouble with the piano that way. We'll take it to Shadyside and
have them cut it open.""Wait. I think I see something in th-----oops!""What.is it? What's going on in-----oops!"Slowly, four figures climbed out of the buggy. "We did it," cried Nuke."What do you mean we?" asked Solong. "Chewey and I grabbed them, and Young hit them with the projector!""Grunk.""Down the hall and to your left.""What will we do now, Hugh-D-Wan?" "Watch," he said as he rolled a fresh sheet of acetate onto the screen. "I'll go to the nearest Centrex station and convince Security to call in the carts. You, Solong and Chewey find a com­puter terminal and gather all the information you can.""Let's go, kid," said Solong."May the Cut be with you."Nuke and Solong reached the terminal room, and logged in.Login at 2:53PM Tops-BAttention Users:FOR INFORMATION ON CAPTURED REBEL PRINCESS TYPE HLP' NEW. 
DELTAO 
@
"She's here, She's here!"cried Nuke."I can read. The help-file says she's in the expansion-cells on the fourth level. Let's go."
Chapter 7Princess Delta Orgamma had been staring at the bare concrete-block walls for hours. With no possible chance of escape without her grades,
she was trapped and at Swank's mercy. Still, she valiantly resisted torture by day and food- service meals by night Hope seemed dim when, just as she began to eat her veal paprikash, the door burst open."Princess?" asked Nuke. "Come on. We're here to free you!""Aren't you a bit polite for a green man?""We've got to get out of here. Hugh-D-Wan is upstairs waiting.""Hugh-D-Wan is here?""Yeah, and so is Security. What do we do now?""Quick, through this door."The four fugitives ran through the open door, completely eluding the Security guards who saw them enter."It's dark in here.""And it smells like...""Grunk.""We must be in the steam tunnels.""If they catch us here, we will be expelled!"When they finally found the exit, they won­dered where all of the security guards had gone to. For the answer to that, we must back track a short while to Hugh-D-Wan's trip to the Centrex center."Hello, Security? There are some students playing Frisbee on the Cut... yes, tearing the sod to bits... You'll send over all available units at once and arrest the hoodlums?... Fine."Young then turned around and headed back to the buggy, where he was met by..."Darth Swank!""I have waited a long time for this, Hugh-D- Wan.""You cannot destroy me now. I've grown

---------------------------------------------------

page 14—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
much in tenure since our last encounter." He switched on the overhead projector."You are wrong, Hugh-D-Wan. It is I who holds the upper hand.""Oh yeah?""You're fired!""Oh fudge."
Chapter 8When they reached the buggy, they found a dejected Hugh Young sitting by the elevators."Come on, Hugh-D-Wan.""You kids go on without me. I don't feel like it." And with that, he entered an elevator and passed from sight forever."Let's go. Chewey, push off."The buggy rolled out of Science Hall and right past two security vans.Solong cried out, "Chewey, raise the shields. Kid, man the starboard gazorch.""O.K., Hi."Nuke seated himself at the starboard gazorch controls, and loaded the first shot."Don't get too eager, Kid. Let them come.""Right, Solong."Just then, a van sped by. Nuke's shot was high, and Solong's was low. They quickly reload­ed. The second van began its charge. Nuke sighted and fired; the shot broke a window."I got him!""Nice going, kid, but don't get cocky!"The first van had completed its turn, and was bearing down on the Buttress."This one's mine, Kid.""Stop calling me Kid."There was a large grey van centered on Hi Solong's cross-hairs. He shot... score!!!"Let's get out of here, Chewey.""Grub.""Next time. Chewey... You know, you'd make a great TA."
Chapter 9There was great rejoicing when the rebels reached Wherret. The 'droids were hooked up to printers which revealed the plans of Science Hall. They also showed the only weakness in its de­fenses."Now men, this is an architect's rendering of Science Hall," said the commander as he pointed to a crude crayon drawing. "Our only chance is to drive the x-wing buggies around the back. At the base of the hill is a clearing from which you can see... this vent... here." He pointed.
by Kate Bertrand
Nerves tangle tightly like Kris Kringle jingles, But no show of snow Except on finalsOne tries to snow on those, or better yet, Shovel.'Til arms ache with the strain Just as much as the brain.
"If it is hit directly with a gazorch balloon, the water will drip down through the pipes and into the 360. This will cause a chain-reaction that will foul up the University's billing for years. They won't be able to build another annex, ever.""But you can't hit a one meter square vent with a gozorch balloon." argued one pilot."Aw, it's just like hitting Sigma Nus back at the frat."
An aide ran into the room."Commander, Science Hall has appeared off the port bow. We estimate thirty minutes before we are in the range of their heavy weapons.""You mean they would actually bombard us with that terrible thing?""I'm afraid so, sir. They've never hesitated to use the Tartan Grill.""Gentlemen, mount your buggies. And may the Cut be with you."
Chapter 10The buggies shot down the back hills and turned up the Scaife driveway as they prepared to make the final assault of Science H&ll. Meanwhile, aboard the mammoth building Grand Moff Dillon was worried."Should we prepare to abandon the building and move to the Governor's Ship in Allegheny, my Lord?""No," replied Swank. "We will not retreat to GSIA. Ready my personal security van, I will go out myself.""At once, excellency!"The first wave started down the narrow road."Blue team leader, this is Pika-A; cover us, we're going down.""Roger, Pika-A. Watch out for their static defenses.""I see them now. Pika-A to Red Team: there are huge bumps across the road... there's one right ahead of me... I'm going to hit it...AAaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa..................."The buggy bounced into the air, landed on Beta-A, and both slid off the road. As they dropped, Beta cried out "I've been fouled."The third buggy in the team reached the base of the hill, and launched its balloon. It exploded as it was shot, leaving a stream of water on the ground."This is Kappa-Sig to Blue Leader: I missed. She's all yours, Nuke."But Blue team was having its own problems. Swank's van had run Theta-Xi off the road, leaving Nuke, Blue Leader and Sisyphus to complete
the job."I'm going in, Blue Leader. Cover me!" cried Nuke.The three buggies barrelled down the road with Swank close behind. Suddenly, Blue leader was hit by Swank."I'm hit, Nuke.""Eject, Q, eject!""I can hold it, Nuke." The buggy flew off the road. "Then again, maybe not."
Chapter 11Now there was only Sisyphus between Swank and his goal, but try as he might, the Grey Lord could not get by the massive fur-lined monster.Yet, Swank was not the only concern of Sisyphus' driver. He frantically swerved to avoid a bump, but was swallowed up by a pothole."Sorry, Nuke."Now the Security van bore down on Nuke."I have you now, Heavy water!" said Swank as he aligned his cross-hairs on the buggy.Suddenly, a shot whizzed over Nuke's buggy and splattered across Swank's windshield."Blast," he said losing control and rolling off the side of the hill. Unhurt, he decided to remain there until the sequel was written."Solong, was that you?""No, it's your fairy godmother...""Grunk""... And Tinkerbell. Now, blow that vent, and let's get out of here!"Nuke aimed his gazorch, and slowly approached the target, but just as he got into range he heard a voice in the back of his head. It was Hugh-D- Wan."Don't trust your feelings, Nuke.""But Hugh-D-Wan...""Use the force diagram, Nuke. Use the force diagram."Nuke quickly calculated relative vectors and fired."Direct hit!""Let's go, Chewey."There was a muffled roar from the depths of Science Hall, and cries of anguish issued from Warner.
EpilogueThe rebel forces formed an honor guard to welcome the returning heroes. They approached the podium where Princess Delta Orgamma was waiting. She presented each with a sheet of paper."Congratulations, Columbia has accepted you as transfer students."
Illustration by Matt Murray

---------------------------------------------------

May 2, 1978—TARTAN—page 15
&
NOSTALGIC REMEMBRANCES OFCMU?
j)y Steven P. Kab/eI remember CMU. I'll never forget the pride I felt being accepted by a school people told me was of excellent reputation and extra selective in its enrollment, where the student-teacher ratio was reaonably low, and where I wasn't required to take any more Phys. Ed. courses or foreign language studies. CMU was small, close to home, ^nd I was naive enough to believe I could make a 'noticeable mark and find myself with a note­worthy class rank. But then, I was only a High School Senior and had no idea what a college freshman had to expect.Freshman year came and never wanted to end...I found myself a commuter, with no place to call my own, outside of the E and S Library. Here and in Phys-Calc class I made up for the sleep I '„.couldn't find time for at home and was afraid to risk during bus trips. I came to understand that the low student-teacher ratio was directly attribu­table to the incredible number of inexperienced grad student TAs, some of which should have spent a little more time with a foreign language study, English. I found out what a fool I'd been to commute, for I spent two to three hours a jday on the buses, my mind rotting away among the rank and file of the Pittsburgh community.The commuting CMU student is a member of an oppressed or ignored minority group with al­most nowhere to turn. The one thing I remember from the only Commuter Council meeting I ever attended was the statement that commuting was a mistake. After that, I wrote them off as a worth­less institution, but I should have believed them. 
k heard the same thing on "Hollywood Squares." Grade averages are better for dorm students than commuting types. Dormers can work together, eat together, sleep together, and even begin to talk and think alike. The bus-bound commuter may very well find himself out in the cold, that is, if he behaves as stupidly as I did.Stupid? Well, not altogether too... Sophomore jVear, I and my only close CMU friend, McC—, a car- owning but occasionally bus-bound commuter gave up the migrant life and joined the Rowdies of 7-E. Life was better then. My QPA peaked and ' my state of mind improved to the point that I almost liked CMU. Though I do remember a number of walks through Schenley Park to re­solve something... I think I may still love her and then, perhaps, I never did.^ LOVE! Sophomore year I got the 15-211 taste of Computer Science and in that i found a field I could successfully sacrifice sleep for. Even the commuter's fight with 15-104 couldn't compare with the bliss the 211 project brought me. I'd go down with the 360 at 0400, get up at 0700,break­fast at 0745, attend class at 0830 onward to when­ever, then back to the 360 if I could afford to put ^EE off one more night.Double-E, Devil, thy name is such and is burned into my mind with a stamp of pain, Algebra, and futile sleepless nights. Such is my revulsion that it would be fondest dream come true if someone blew up Hammerschlag Hall. (Please wait three years as I don't want credit for the event.) Over these four years I've gathered my feelings for in­structors, both worthy and worthless, and EE 1 courses, distinguished similarly, as well as my anger and fmstration with myself and my fellows and redirected them towards this building. Ham­merschlag has become an effigy of all that is foul and evil in my eyes, and it's not through with me yet. The last thing I'll do within its bowels is take a Communications final.Of finals it mav be said that the Lord must of
£
loved 'em 'cause he made so many. Two Blue- Book, three Blue-Book finals, the three hours of sweet toil to prove that I really did learn every­thing my homework said I learned even if my tests didn't agree. Finals, worth upward from 35% of a grade, always seem to be too long for the time alloted, so that a person never quite finds the time to think through a problem and must endure the tedium of continuous writing to fill out the requirements of each problem and fill the Blue-Books.At Pitt they have white Blue-Books; they write test answers into white-covered lined paper. That's so dumb! Everyone knows Blue-Books are supposed to be blue. But then, Pitt always was a little backward. After all, they accepted me too. But then, so did Penn State.McC— did even better. For our Junior year, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne ac­cepted him as a technical exchange student and I suddenly found what it was to be completely alone, facing off a university. Not that my 7-E friends deserted me, I deserted them, horrified by the loss of respect I suffered in their eyes through the wiles of SNaT and A.S.E-2.. I now took my walks alone, and it was a common belief on the floor that I wasn't going to make it. After SNaT and A.S.E-2. had reduced me to a howling bundle of loose nerves, they handed me on to Circus- 1, and I too felt my time had come. Praise the Lord for 15-311 and 18-234, for without them my sanity would have fallen alongside my confidence. Both picked up with the grades my work in these courses received. Still, I never would have survived my Junior year without the help of a new circle made up of C.S. types. My work and my academ­ic endeavors were sufficient to induce their re­spect and this is what I needed to bolster my ego. But if I had to live that year over again, I'd prob­ably jump out a window or else go live on the beaches of California on shellfish and petroleum derivatives.After all the pain of my Junior year, this year seemed bearable, but only for a while. Controls did its damndest to knock me down and Circus-2 had its own games to play to try to foil my QPA.
In addition, I chose to live off campus with McC— and two others and was perfectly happy with the decision until someone pointed out to me that, once again, I was a commuter. Now, those 20 to 30 minute walks awaken an old, uncomfortable feeling that’taints even the most pleasant of days. But these small agonies and all my other trials are trailing down now as the year ends. Thanks to the skillful organization of the Placement Office and my own strenuous efforts, I've found a pos­ition with a mildly respectable corporation in a rather entertaining topic within the field of Computer Science.Obviously, my four years at CMU have paid off, so I must admit that my memories aren't all bad. I remember the long hours of Hearts games with Arrogant Al, McC—, and Chris, Bill, or Mikey before I went on to finish EE homework.I remember learning bridge during Carnival of '76.I remember the meals with 7-E, the meals with my A, B, and D tower friends, the meals with McC—, and the meals in the old Tartan Grill with my commuter crowd. It's funny that so many pleasurable memories coincide with the consump­tion of miserable food, though it did give us something to talk about. So many other pleasant memories consist of the shared agonies of the 360 and the DEC20, for who can ignore the compan­ionship that may grow in these instances? How­ever, these memories alone do not compensate for the pain this university has caused me, so I close with these three requests:(1) CMU, don't ask me for money for six (6) years. I figure it will take that long to become nostalgic.(2) Don't invite me to a '78 class reunion. Any­body I want to see I'll keep in touch with. The rest wouldn't remember me any way. And,(3) Don't rename Science Hall to Cyert Hall!!! It's been my home away from home for much too long for me to view such a move with anything but regret. Science Hall deserves its name; let it keep it. However, I'm not totally without feeling, and Dr. Cyert does deserve a building. Let Ham­merschlag Hall bear his name.
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

---------------------------------------------------

page 16—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
d(me) dt
by Samurai E. E.
As a senior rapidly approaching the end of my college career and a whole life style, I feel obli­gated to philosophize about CMU. FOLIO has given me the opportunity to do this, and I attempt to concentrate on the changes in me with respect to time (as the title indicates, for you non-math people). I hope others graduating will be able to identify with some of my thoughts, and as under­classmen (persons) approach their senior year they may find some similarity as CMU attempts to beat us into the same mold.Let me preface my comments with a little back­ground: I am a male EE student. My "friends" say I'm a nerd. However, a nerd (among other things) completes assignments about 3 years be­fore they're due (like finishing self-paced Calc by mid-semester). / begin working the night before something's due. (For example, this article is being typed at the last minute.) Let's just say I'm a pseudo-nerd. Finally, this article is going to be slightly one-sided.
How have I changed (or not changed) in four years at CMU?
PHYSICALLY—I haven't grown any taller, nor have I gained any weight.—Aside from a shortening of hair styles, my visage is virtually unchanged.-I get almost no exercise, and as such, was in better shape when I got here.—There is more hair on my chest (CMU girls should be able to identify here) and I have to contend with a 5 o'clock shadow now.—I have passed my sexual peak and am rapidly headed for male menopause. (Due to the environ­ment of CMU, this comment is a statistical fact... it has not been empirically determined nor tested.)
MENTALLY (pseudo-nerd side)—My thought process has definitely changed (for better or worse). I tend to solve life's prob­lems much like a homework set.—My working vocabulary consists primarily of engineering terms, whereas it used to be better balanced. (I'm trying to correct this problem.)— Little inconsistencies in math rigor never used to bother me. Now they do. For example, my title is not correct. The quantity (dt) is sup­posed to be an infinitesimally small part of the whole, and 4 years out of 20 does not qualify. The correct title should be~p , (Now you can understand why I get hassled about being a nerd.
***ERROR*** missing parenthisis (remember good ol' 15-104?)
—The local joke is to chaff me about my use of academic cliches such as, "it's not clear to me," "may or may not be," etc. I certainly did not talk that way when I got here. It took time to develop. It will take time to go away... not unlike a rash.
MENTALLY (personality side)—I definitely got cruder. And the amazing thing is, who would've thought that the pristine fresh­man of four years ago could become so crude?
Certainly not me. (Time for a social comment from our sponsor. There seems to be many ex­amples on campus of people assuming traits dia­metrical to their pre-college personalities. The people I thought were the straightest seem to be the biggest heads.)—I drink more beer than I used to. When I got here, I had a beer on occasion. Now, there seem to be more occasions to drink beer.—As part of my EE training, I've become pretty tactless. (I'm not sure if tactless people make good engineers, or if engineering makes people tactless.)—My opinion of professors has gone down a few notches since I've been at CMU. I used to believe professors were intelligent, rational beings. To be sure, there are a few good professors a- round. But it seems to me there are enough bad ones to taint the word for the rest of my life. (No names please.) In addition, the bad ones are like little kids (worse?). I sometimes think most pro­fessors become professors because no one else will have them.
—Along these lines, the concept of "college" has changed for me in the past few years. It seems anyone can teach here, even if they can't teach. I always thought college was a place where you learn more "stuff." Well, you learn... but you learn the hard way, and I don't know that you couldn't have done that on your own somewhere else.—The concept of a "good school" has also changed for me. This is supposed to be a good school. Now I've never gone anywhere else, so I can't really make a winning arguement. But talking to EE's from other schools, we're all learning the same thing (I should hope). Their professors may not be the top names, but it seems the instruction is better. Was CMU really worth the pain, aggravation, and the money? A moot question.Will I miss CMU? Hardly. I will miss my friends of course, but I doubt that I will miss this place. I don't even want to be reminded... did you hear that, Alumni Association? Pittsburgh isnice enough for a few years, but after a while the pot holes, pollution, and hick town atmosphere become pretty intolerable.As always, just when I'm ready to move on, things start getting better. You underclassmen should know that CMU women are getting "bet­ter." (I know it's hard to believe, but try to ima­gine what it was like when I was a freshman... at any other school I would have been hard pressed to keep my virginity, but CMU has taken care of that for me.) Our halls were transformed from suicide gray to living color. Even the freshman classes contain fewer nerds per hundred. It seems wild, but I'd like to believe that someday CMU will become a party school.Do I have any advice to give? Sure... and I've been trying to give it all year. Kinda stupid on my part. As a freshman pointed out (can you believe it... a freshman?), everyone wants to learn for themselves. Just keep smiling and don't let grades become too big a part of your life.I'd like to gloat over the fact that I'll be out in two weeks, while most of you still have a while to go. I'll be busy trying to return to normal out "there." Good luck and good bye!
Car Mel U: A 
PERVERSE EXPERIENCE
by James Sepe/ak
Well son, how do you like CarMel University?
Well sir, it certainly is no place for candy asses, sleeping all night in Sigheart Hall with just a blanket.
Yes, Joe it's rough, but one must remember that our blanket campaign is what made CarMel U. what it is today.
Sir, my father told me that you used to giv sleeping bags.
Yes Joe, back in the days of waste and extra­vagance we did use them, but the adminstration, in order to stay in the black, sold them to Pity U.
Sir, he also said you had a music department.
A music department? Oh yes, he must have meant the kind with people playing instruments; that was so archaic, we've replaced it with a re­cord department. By the way, there is a three-for- fifty dollars sale today.
- Say Joe, why don't we go down to the Fluids Lab and talk to Professor Hugheskannot down there?
Okay sir, after all that's the reason I came to CarMel U., it's the plumber's choice.
SAGA OF THE ALUM
by JPS
Where, oh where, have my CMU days gone?Oh, what will I have to face next?
CIT classes with Prof. ZenvesWere never as boring as this Dam Project.
Doc O's antics were bad,But my boss who thinks he's J.Benny reincar­nated.
How To Be An Architect (Without Committing 
Suicide} by Melbert Lowlands Was, by far, more interesting than reading The 
Dutiful Exec by U.N.Derthetable.
On the subject of Design. .. .Perfection of the straight line for E.A. Disher was outrageous Compared to the Perfection of the office's cup of coffee.
Missing Law class with Prof. Gerr brought far less guilt Than arriving for work at 8:35!
Last, but not least. . .The almighty computer, as viewed through McKermott's eyes,Was even better than the birdfeed "they" call my salary.
Come back, CMU and the good ol' days.I miss you!

---------------------------------------------------

May 2,1978—TARTAN—page 17
€
MEMOIRS
by lara ThcufBSOnce upon a time due to no fault of housing,a bunch of Sophomores, a sprinkling of Juniorsand a token Senior all ended up on the fifth floorof D-tower in Morewood Gardens. This is thestory of how such a melange of girls bandedtogether to fight boredom, nerdliness and theCMU way!*Our story begins in the fall semester of 1977*
Well, a few of us knew each other, if not well, at least enough to say "hi" to on the cut. How­ever, there were some totally new faces. But, within the first few weeks we had solved that. We now knew each other enough to recognize who lived on "the floor" and who didn't, at i. least when we wore our glasses we did, but any­way. . . To an outsider, 5-D looked like any other CMU dorm hall, but that's where they were mistaken. For within the confines of 5-D a strange and wonderous thing was about to hap­pen. Between 4 and 6-D, 5-D was beginning to pulse with the first hints of amorphosis. Conviv­iality began to trickle down the hall, stopping I at most doors to take root, taking no heed to major or department. The seedlings were tenderly nourished by occupants of the floor throughout the long harsh winter. They grew quickly, fed on the craziness surrounding them and before we knew it an extraordinary bond was fashioned from the void. It started slowly with the help of constant exposure but soon quickened its pace as we began to seek each other out on our own. ^ Before we knew what was happening, we were involved! Espionage, kidnapping,. ABAFr hijack­ing elevators, but these were but the petals of our flowering friendships. The stem, the base, the very roots came from ordinary activities. Cards turned mild mannered 5-Ders into desparate mid­night players, Kappa Sigs were taken into custo­dy, interrogated as to their weekend and Thurs- day night activities, and plans were made for a selected few. However, fraternizing was not solely with fraternities. Intrique was everywhere. We even managed to infiltrate SARC. From their ? supplies we built a strong structure, mighty enough to withstand Spring Carnival, the judges, and the budget. Without knowing it, the housing department fostered 5-D. CMU has only one chance to stop our progress. Though we may J sway gently in the breeze when confronted by Professors and Deans alike, we will survive. For even though we lose a member or two to differ­ent schools, they are but the sowing of our har­mony in other institutions. And next year, when we disperse as dandelion puffs, across the hill we will reroot ourselves and start new fractions un- til we spread fun and frivolity across CMU.______
JUSTIFICATION
by Kate Bertrand —Yeah, I changed my major.—No kidding. To what?—Writing. As of next semester, anyhow.-Wow, that's quite a switch. What ever happened to DNA research?
) —Too much chemistry. I couldn't hack it any­more.—Oh. Bad grades, huh?—No. My grades are okay, but I can't stand what I'm studying. I hate our current cirriculum.—So why don't you retain your old major and pick a new school?—The curriculum isn't the only thing. I'm just not
cut out for science. It took me a year and a~ half to figure it out, but I don't want to be a scientist.-You'll never get a job as an English major, you know.—I wouldn't have with a BS in Bio, either.—I thought you wanted to go to grad school. —I changed my mind.—You'll probably end up waiting on tables. —That's all right; I'm easy.—You've never done it. That's why you say that. Let me tell you, unskilled work is no clambake. I've worked in all the cruddy jobs: fast food, the mills, the whole thing. I couldn't stand it. Semi-skilled work was the dregs, too. All the girls in the typing pool could talk about was
what was on sale at Bloomingdales's and what band was playing at the local bar.—(It sounds interesting to me.)-I hate to say it, but I have to be around intel­lectually stimulating people. All people aren't like around CMU, you know.—(Thank God!)—I mean I need to be around people who can talk about art and music.-(Yeah. "Culchah ")—And even chemistry.—(Oh, please.)-You'll see. You'll hate those jobs, too.—I was thinking more of the Peace Corps.-Oh, an idealist. Well, if that's what you're into.—Yeah, I guess it is.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
O
AT THE CROSSROADS
by Jeffrey Martinez
Throughout my life, I never realized Even though they are years, time really flies I understood the changes—saw them for what they were;Felt like my father, as if I'd seen myself grow And made it to the Crossroads, as if you already didn't know.
And I stand here ready to Cross Why should there be any loss?Why should there be At the Crossroads—Your mind can be over load,Crossing with caution carefully'Cause there is a difference inCrossing sufficiently or Crossing successfullyAt the Crossroads
Some don't make it; the hazards aren't nice: Darwin's law is overruled by the Dice And others who've made it carry the scars forever Free time was freedom itself, carried off by wind Save any for sanity, and that's a technological sin
And I stand here ready to Cross And if there is any loss And there can be At the Crossroads- Your worth youR AlphaBetIC coDe Whenever you cross finally 'Cause there is no difference in Crossing initially or Crossing eventuallyAt the Crossroads
There's a toll booth before the CrossroadsRegardless of gifts, life savings corrodeAnd that booth keeps step with you like a soldiermarcherRaping your pocket while the Mayor counts the fineThen create an illusion—on the other side there's a gold mine.
And I stand here half way across Find out that I have lost Find I am lost At the Crossroads
FINALS FRENZY
by Linda Rian
As exam week approaches, the tensions all rise,And everyone has a real wierd look in their eyes.The line at the Bridge is fourteen blocks longBut with five bottles of Sominex I just can't go wrong.These finals are really blowing my mind,But from looking around I have seemed to find That because of this entire week-long curse The whole student body is the same—if not worse.At times I wonder why I go through this ordeal;Is it all because I happen to feelThat without a sheepskin from this wretched ol' placeEmployers will not even look at my face?So I subject myself to this torture and pray That somehow, just maybe, I will find a way To pass all my finals and make it right through With a final grade average of at least a 2-2.The exams always have some devious twists That makes you want to slit both of your wrists.You can go down to Allies to drown all your sorrows And try to forget all about tomorrow's Exam in Calc. 3 that you know you will fail No matter how much you study or whimper or wail. And then there's thermo—a bitch and a half Where the teacher is certain to get the last laugh.They delight and sneer over the poor students' grief And chuckle out loud; for it is their belief ,That this test will be the worst one ever,That no students will pass, no matter how clever.As the students all slowly disappear from their room Their friends start to wonder if they have leapt to their doomOr if they are merely rotting away While trying to see why F equals ma.By now an unearthly quiet has settled over the school While the poor students try to remember every last rule That they should have learned at the start of the year But they didn't—instead they were learning of beer.All the nights spent guzzling that fine golden brew When they knew very well they had much work to do That's the cause of my troubles and all my unrest,For now I know well I could not pass a testUnless the teacher awarded some pointsFor knowledge of liquor or how to roll joints.
HAVEANICE
*
%
(check one:
? Summer
O Year
Q Life
-TheTARTAN staff
r>
So that's*it for the year. We hope that th.. issue of FOLIO at least was able to capture a few memories for those who are about to reenter the real world after four years of the "CMU Exper­ience." For the rest of you, we hope that you'll be back again next year, contributing to FOLIO and making it another great year.

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
Finals cause bizzare incidents
I by Dave Mongeau
“Final exams influence many bizarre 
study habits and reactions among the stu­
dents at high-pressure universities to an 
extent educators can no longer ignore.” 
So states H.I. Mann, a research professor 
in education at Hahvid University,
In a report to Health, Education and 
Welfare, Mann outlined a countless number 
hi cases that exhibit the unusual behavior 
of students during finals. The TARTAN 
became interested in the report, when it 
learned Carnegie-Mellon was one of the 
schools at which Mann researched.
Students in the maths and computer 
sciences are reported to have the greatest 
number of “final fever” cases. Their 
behavior patterns are not, however, as 
Pbiverse as those of humanities and arts 
students. Most often the former seem to 
scream and yoddle without warning, when 
a lack of sleep brings serious mind fatigue. 
In groups of more than three, computer 
science students are considered “danger­
ous” under stress, according to Mann’s 
report. “They have been known to attack 
anyone, who has had either a full night’s 
sleep or no run errors,” he states.
Mann outlined the best means of appre­
hending crazed compsci majors. The meth­
od consists of flashing a box of No-Doz 
when they approach for the attack; Mann 
said the effect is not unlike that of using a 
crucifix on a vampire.
Chemistry majors were, also, included 
on Mann’s “dangerous” list» Both Hahvid 
and CMU have recorded cases of explosive 
chem majors. Some of these students 
attempt self-destruction, while others are 
more magnanimous: they blow up their
friends and professors. It is believed that 
affixiating “architect's disease” here at
CMU is, in fact, the plot of a mind that 
could take the pressure no longer.
“Students of the arts fortunately have 
their work in which to relieve aggressions, 
when the going gets tough,” said Mann. A 
spokesman from CFA supported Mann’s 
report saying in a TARTAN interview, 
“Drama students tend to make their best 
performances on the Cut(that is when 
they were allowed to stand there)or on a 
bus home after crew. The pressure has an 
energizing affect during finals. P should 
mention here that the Kiltie Cafe is outof» 
bounds to anyone but Drama students 
during the next two weeks. We do not look 
forward to another tragic donut stoning of 
any engineers, with our students yelling 
Tora, Tora, Tora,’ like last year. Ir*s poor 
PR.”
Mann found the actions of the human­
ities students the hardest to characterize
"humanities students delight in 
pranks like squishing food between 
pages of their booksr
in his report. ‘They often become ex­
tremely depressed and philosophical, tak­
ing delight in pranks like squishing food 
between pages of their books,** said Mann. 
Once at CMU, twenty graduating English 
majors painted “Beware Farenheit 451” 
on the doors of Hunt Library: Entropy 
reports an unusually large sale of comics 
and pornography during finals, which 
Mann attributes to hard up students* 
revolt against literature. “Soldier of For­
tune” is, also, inexplicably popular during 
finals.
All cases outlined by Mann are not as
PIKA men, Lenny Lewis, Colin Keller, Ken Boydard and Ed Sullivan are engrossed in a 
violent game of "Four Square." BETA and SAE are also reportedly obsessed with the 
childhood game.
dramatic as those cited in this article. 
Some students merely destroy their entire 
nervous systems and metabolisms, while 
adapting to the needless pressures of finals. 
These cases are conveniently overlooked 
because of their vast numbers(huh?).
Mann explained it in a pistachio-shell of 
genius: “The prestige schools thrive on
pressure. The administrations do not mind 
the bizarre incidents involving students, as 
long as they do not have to deal with the
causes.” What price, education.
Be on your guard against crazed computer science students during finals week.
Don't forget food, friends 
exercise when studying
If you forsake friends, food, exercise, 
and fun in preparation for finals, you’re 
overdoing it! A more civilized approach to 
studying takes the “cram” out of exams, 
and may even improve your performance 
on these tests.
Take friends, for instance. Your fellow 
students don’t have to represent distrac- 
tions-think instead of the combined brain­
power they can provide! Take advantage of 
this power by forming a study co-op. Each 
member of the co-op chooses a chapter or 
topic for which he or she prepares a special 
review. Although everyone still studies all 
the material, you'll get the benefit of one 
“expert'' in each field to help the group 
master difficult tenns and concepts.
What about food? First of all, don't be 
tempted to rely on all that coffee in your 
veins to keep you going. Sustain your 
energy level with well-balanced, regular 
meals. Then give your body (and your 
psyche) a special lift with snacks that feel 
just a little bit sinful.
You might surprise your study co-op 
with a 4-pack of Swiss Miss Refrigerated 
Puddings. The snack-size containers are 
enough to reward the whole ¿roup! and
sinfully-rich flavors like dark chocolate, 
creamy vanilla, and luscious butterscotch 
will make you feel as if you’re in an ice 
cream parlor-not in the dormitory battling 
with Beowulf.
Exercise is more important than ever 
when you’re studying under pressure. If 
you can no longer tell Romanticism from 
Realism, get out your jump rope of jog 
around the block. You'll feel refreshed 
when you finish, and ready once more to 
struggle with the intricacies of organic 
chemistry and the subtleties of syntax
And finally, don’t forget to sandwich in 
some time for fun! After a prolonged 
session of conjugating, balancing, trans­
lating, and memorizing, treat yourself! 
Lose yourself in a movie, see what’s hap­
pening in the student center, take a couple 
of fast twirls around the floor of the 
nearest disco. If you can relax and relieve 
some of the tension which builds up before 
exams, you'll sleep more soundly, study 
more effectively, and ultimately perform 
better on you finals.
And remember: the nicest thing about 
finals is that their name reflects a very real 
fact-when they’re over, that’s it! FinallyI
'Holed up in Science Hall." A desolate study area for many CITstudents.These tykes are starting early to prepare for those pressure-packed CMU finals.

---------------------------------------------------

iiiitiimiiuiiiiniiimiiiiiüimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHimiiiiimiii
page 20—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
by Victoria Sample
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation is a refresh­
ing part of campus you may be overlooking,, The Penthouse of 
Hunt Library provides an excellent opportunity to familiarize 
yourself with the beauty of botanical art. Hunt Institute regularly 
exhibits works by masters of botanical art and illustration from * 
the Renaissance to today.
Homegrown III is the current exhibition. This show explores 
the botanical theme as conceived by Pittsburgh area artists. The 
rich variety of media and technique disputes any preconceived 
notion you may have about the stiffness of botanical art. Car- 
negie-Mellon faculty members, Ron Bennett, Bruce Carter, 
Katie Morris Rebholz, Thomas J. Ruddy, and Mary E„ Weidner 
have works exhibited in Homegrown III; their contributions 
range from sculptures to drawings in colored pencils. Ursula * 
Neubauer, a Carnegie-Mellon graduate student, has two partic­
ularly interesting prints on display.
Capturing the individual character of plant or flower is ap­
parent in every piece. In Sister Mary Edith Nemeth's woodcut, 
''Sunflowers,'' she achieves a dramatic composition as black and 
white shapes create a dynamic tension in the picture space. 
This woodcut displays a competent understanding of sunflowers 
as shapes occupying space and as a living, changeable subject. 
"Sunflowers" gracefully incorporates detailed irregularity and % 
personality into each blossom and leaf. The boldness and detail of 
this woodcut allows the viewer to appreciate it at close range 
and at a distance.
All the art work in Homegrown III is available for viewing 
during Hunt Institute's regular hours, 8:30 to 5:00 PM, Monday 
through Friday. Most of the art in Homegrown III is for sale. As 
an introduction or as a reminder of the beauty in botanical art, 
take advantage of Hunt Institute's invitation to Homegrown III.
Subscribe to the 
TARTAN-$10
Newexhibition‘f %hangs at Hunt
The Puffin fare for youths.
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a* 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re 
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
KftCflf LVtOJhOllS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERMANENTS/m—fc <\i n nn 237 ATW00D STREET n nlU.UU PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 ZD.UU 
Mon Tues. Wed 10-7 687-3500Thurs. Fri. 10-9 No
s«t 96 UNISEX HAIR SALON AppointmentsMIHMiMMMMMi
MMtNMMMtf
$275
45 ila v APEX far
$400
KtHiiHllrip 14-45 day APEX fan* from N.Y.*
Kouiultrip Youth Karv. thru age 23.Icelandic to Europe
$2M».troinl I *k«ls illusi In rcMTYni t'i4«ys pmic to «Vpdilun and
lllintllllllllllllltllllllllUIIHHIIItimiltllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUftlltMllltlllllllllllllllllllllUIIINIMHMnillllMIMIIIIHMIiaE
Great Moments in the history of hair
One of the first things 
young Puffins learn to do 
is fly Icelandic. 
Beginning April 1, 
1978, Icelandic will 
fly any youth (Puffin 
or person) from 12 
dim 23 years old roundtrip from New 
York to Luxembourg for just $400. $4:#) 
from Chicago. Re- * 
turn tickets are 
good for a full year. Fares are 
subject to 
change.
Book anytime.
But there’s more to 
Icelandic than just 
low fares.
You 11 get a 
great dinner and 
excellent service 
on your trip. And 
Icelandic will 
set you down 
nght in the mid 
die of the Euro­
pean Continent, 
where you 11 be just hours away by 
train from Europe’s 
most famous 
landmarks.
So take a travel 
tip from Iceland’s 
favorite bird.
Learn to fly Icelandic. 
See your travel 
agent. Or wnte Dept. #052. 
Icelandic Airlines,
¦ P.O. Box 105, 
vj West Hempstead, 
I N Y. 11552. CaH 
800-555*1212 for ^ toll-free number 
in your area.

---------------------------------------------------

May 2, 1978—TARTAN—page 21
I--------------------T'Don't get stuckRenting tips given
by Linda Deak
Exiting CMU’s housing haven for an 
off-campus apartment may sound wonder­
fully exciting, but it also may bring on an 
ulcer if a prospective tenant is not aware of 
the legalities of renting.
99% of apartment rentals call for a writ­
ten or oral lease. Novice tenants should not 
take the legally binding contracts very 
lightly. CMU Attorney Alvin P. Brannick, 
warns, “The worse thing you could do is 
have a lease, but it usually is inevitable.” 
** The lease basically stipulates the length 
of the rental period and also the amount of 
rental payment. However, there are options 
inserted into many leases which must be 
adhered to. For example, the lease might 
carry an option which states that water 
beds are strictly prohibited and violation 
could tead to eviction. The landlord has the
right to give the tenant 30 days notice if, 
during a routine check, he finds the ten­
ant’s bed making unusual sloshing sounds.
Lease options can also be very beneficial 
for prospective renters. Many students 
don’t realize that they should demand all 
their responsibilities for the apartment or 
house’s upkeep be explicitly described in 
the lease. The tenant and landlord then 
both know what is mutually expected of 
them.
At the time of signing the lease, the 
landlord usually requests a security depos­
it. He cannot require a payment of more 
than two months advance rent from a first 
year tenant. The landlord must also return 
the security deposit within 30 days of the 
lease termination date. If the entire deposit 
is not received, the landlord must include a 
written list of damages.
Brannick warns, “See the landlord face 
to face to get a feeling about the person 
you’re dealing with.” He also feels that 
students should not get “chummy” with 
their landlords, for “18 to 20 year olds are 
easy to rip off.”
Having signed for an apartment, the 
lease implicitly entitles you, as a tenant, to 
“quiet enjoyment.” The landlord should 
legally not be able to burst into your 
apartment, nor drop by whenever he feels 
like it. Brannick claims, “The tenant’s title 
is superior to the landlord’s while he holds 
the lease.”
Before handing over hundreds of dollars 
for that beautiful place on Ivy Street, make 
sure to carefully read to lease. The form 
40’s tiny print may take some time, but at 
least you will know what you’re getting 
into.
Fifties craze hits!
Richie Cunningham’s in college. As the 
school year closes, he’ll have survived his 
first year’s finals, fraternity pledging, and 
panty raids. Richie’s even got a girl-Lori 
Beth. Amazing, isn’t it-how die young 
“Happy Days” star-and, indeed, ourselves— 
have grown up so much since the show 
debuted? Was it just in 1972 that “Happy 
Days” kicked off a nationwide Fifties 
craze that’s still rolling strong today?
And oh, has that Fifties craze followed 
us!! Five years ago, as America was strug­
gling with the Recession and we were strug- 
ing with adolescence, we took a nostalgic 
look at a time and at people we thought 
were more happy and carefree than us. We 
had high school dances and parties with 
jukeboxes and Fifties rock and roll tunes. 
We patronized corner malt shops serving 
banana splits and burgers with renewed 
gusto.
In 1978, the Fifties have become more 
ingrained in our lives, less of an accessory 
that is thrown away as a new fad strikes 
our fancy. It is who we are, not who we long 
to be. Witness what’s happening across the 
country today:
-Straight-legged pants, rolled cuffs, bobby 
sox, soft mohair and cashmere sweaters, 
and stickpins are all the fashion rage—and 
all direct from 1955.
-Punk rock, which harkens back to the raw, 
earthy rock and roll sound of the mid- 
Fifties wows us and shocks our parents- 
the same teens who rocked around the 
clock to “Rollover Beethoven” a generation 
ago.
—Big bands like Sha-Na-Na and Flash Cadil­
lac, who popularized the Fifties sound 
over the past few years, have spawned a 
host of imitators who pound out rockin' 
tunes in packed nightspots and college
hangouts throughout America.
—Even our attitudes are similar to the 
teens of that era. Recent surveys indicate 
that American youth has taken a turn to 
the conservative right in moral and political 
attitudes—although young people today are 
more demanding and aware as consumers.
Hollywood has also gone rock and roll 
crazy. The film “American Hot Wax” takes 
a look at 1950’s rock and roll concert pro­
ducer Alan Freed, the scandal-ridden record 
business and screaming teenagers who 
danced in concert-hall aisles during Chuck 
Berry and Jerry Lee Lewis songs.
For summer crowds, Paramount Studios 
is releasing “Grease,” a Fifties musical 
comedy starring John Travolta, Olivia 
Newton-John and Stockard Channing, along 
with cameo appearances by such Fab Fifties 
stars as Sid Caesar, Eve Arden and Edd 
“Kookie” Byrnes. “Grease” tells us what 
life was like in 1958 and how it felt to be a 
teenager, matching greaser Travolta with 
pure-in-heart bobby soxer Newton-John in 
an unlikely love story.
With the popular teen idol Travolta at 
the helm, “Grease” is expected to be a 
smash hit with youthful audiences—so much 
so that young people’s magazines are putting 
Travolta’s pictures on their covers in May 
and June, and major manufacturers of 
consumer products are tying their summer 
advertising campaigns to the film.
Media power being what it is, this sum­
mer’s “fun” might well be synonomous 
with an even bigger “Fifties Fever” that 
will roll across America. We’ll put on our 
blue suede shoes for taking a cruise down to 
the drive-in, and then we’ll dance the night 
away with the gang. Don't be late—the 
Fifties surely have a date with ’78!
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW TO REDUCE RUST
YOU MAY BE WASHING THE WRONG SIDE OF YOUR CAR
Spring is a perfect time 
to do something about rust
Rusting is a year-round 
problem, and corrosive con­
ditions have become a lot 
worse in the last five years.
If you live where salt is 
used to melt ice on the roads, 
that is speeding upcorrosion 
on your car. If you live in the 
country, it’s the calcium 
chloride that’s spread on dirt 
roads to hold down dust. 
And corrosive chemicals in 
the air are causing rust in 
every part of America.
We’re doing something 
to help prevent rust on the 
new cars we’re building. 
Meanwhile, you can do 
something about reducing 
rust on your car.
It’s important to wash your 
car often. Use a mild soap 
and lukewarm or cold water.
Please don't neglect 
the underside of your car. 
The worst rusting happens
from thp incirlp nut ThaPc
because salt, slush, and 
even mud tend to collect in 
the crevices underneath the 
car, in the door creases, and 
inside the fenders. Moisture 
gets trapped in those places 
and causes rust. So try to 
wash the underside of your 
car, too. In winter, if you can, 
and at the first opportunity 
in spring. Even if it’s only a 
few times a year, that would 
help some.
If your car gets dented, 
scratched, or chipped, try 
to get it repaired as soon 
as possible. Even a “small” 
scratch is bad. Because once 
a car starts to rust, the dam­
age spreads fast. The paint 
around a dent or scratch can 
look okay, but rust is spread­
ing underneath. In the long 
run, it’s cheaper to fix the 
car right away.
A lot of people think that 
parking a car in a heated 
garage during the winter 
w/ilL V»4»Jn.-nr^>|5p^oIie:* vJSiti 
slows down the rusting pro­
cess, as it does most chem­
ical reactions.
We’re doing more now to 
protect GM cars from rust. 
For one thing, we’re using 
more rust-resistant mate­
rials, including different 
types of zinc-coated steel, in 
places where rust usually oc­
curs. Also, our new paint 
primers and the way we 
apply them are designed to 
provide a thorough finish, 
even on some parts of the 
car you can’t see.
Our goal is to protect 
your car so that it lasts 
longer and gives you the 
most value. And fighting 
rust helps.______________
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give cus­
tomers useful information about 
their cars and trucks and the 
company that builds them.
General Motors
People building transportation 
to serve people

---------------------------------------------------

page 22-TAR TAN-May 2, 1978
"Hey, what's up after graduation?"
Seniors are leaving as of May 15. In 
an impromptu poll, the TARTAN asked 
a few seniors what they will be doing 
and where they will be going.
Those entering the cold, cruel world in­
clude the following seniors :
Gary Kemeny, Chemical Engineering, 
working for Gulf Oil in Philadelphia; 
LeAnn Trimpey, Technical Writing, also 
heading for Philadelphia to work for Sper- 
ry-Univac; Tom Sopko, Psychology, stay­
ing in the megalopolis of Oakland to work 
for the CMU Psych department; Jeffrey 
Beckett, Math, travelling to Irving, CA to 
work for Burroughs; ZBT’s Ken Meinert, 
Civil Engineering, is heading for a job in 
Oklahoma; Pat Yost, Drama, Roundabout 
Theater in New York City; John Belich, 
History, is driving to beautiful Braddock to 
work for U.S. Steel; Art Solomon, Mechan-
ical Engineering, Hydromatic (division of 
GM) grabbed him for their Ann Arbor 
plant; Ingrid Goedicke, Mechanical Engin­
eering, is staying in Pittsburgh to work for 
Alcoa; Steve Belanich, Mechanical Engin­
eering, is leaving for a job in Cleveland; 
Mary Bongar, Chemical Engineering, is 
working in Warren, Ohio for Packard-Elec­
tric (division of GM); two Electrical Engin­
eers, Frank Suffoletta and Lew Larson are 
heading for Los Angeles to work for TRW; 
Dave Werner, Mechanical Engineering, is 
driving up Route 30 to Jeanette, Pa. to 
work for Elliot Co. (division of Carrier 
Corp.); Ralph Deabrunzzi, AMS, is trying 
for a government job; Bill Miller, Mechan­
ical Engineering, is working in Pittsburgh 
for GE; John Golec, Civil Engineering, will 
be working in the tri-state area for Factory 
Mutual; Lesley Beck, Drama, is getting
married and moving to New Orleans to 
work in the Mardi Gras Industry; Dave 
Wecker, Electrical Engineering, is doing re­
search at Mellon Institute; Dave Zeisloft, 
Mechanical Engineering, accepted an offer 
with Donnelly Printing in Chicago; Ken 
Krafcheck, Design, is freelancing in the 
Pittsburgh area; Greg Kaminski, Electrical 
Engineering, is travelling to major east 
coast cities as part of his job; Doug Wolfire, 
Creative Writing, will tell everyone his 
plans on Wednesday.
Those extending their education in­
clude: Bob Skavronski, Music, is headed 
for Boston and the New England Conser­
vatory for a master’s in Performance; Clare 
Rimnac, Metallurgy and Materials Science, 
is going to Lehigh; Don Simon, Math, is en­
rolling at the University of Texas at Aus­
tin; Donna Wright, Psychology and Math,
has been accepted at Pitt for graduate work 
in Public Health; Dane Wukich, Biology, 
will be attending Georgetown Medical 
School; Beth Kosis, Writing, is going to 
Boston University; Rob Zimmerman, 
Econ and AMS, is headed for Northwestern 
Business School; Mike Niman , Mechanical 
Engineering, is excited a^out Cal Tech; 
Mark Bach, Civil Engineering, is going for 
an MBA at Columbia.
The TARTAN wishes the aforemen­
tioned and all seniors GOOD LUCK!
II
C#
Security notes
by Michael Corletti
Director of Security
Security would like to remind all stud­
ents that incidents of personal property 
losses due to theft noticeably increase 
during the spring months. During this 
period, losses of cash and other highly 
portable valuables are a particular problem.
A review of Security and Police reports un­
fortunately indicate that many of the 
thefts are attributable to some level of 
neglect on the part of the victim.
Campus residents are urged to make cer­
tain that dormitory rooms, offices, and 
other work areas are locked when unat-’* 
tended. It is not reasonable to assume that 
you can leave your dorm room unattended 
and unlocked with cash and other valuables 
in plain view. It takes only a few minutes 1 
to commit an act of theft. Make it a habit 
to lock your dorm room when leaving. An­
other important rule to help prevent theft 
is to lock your dorm room when retiring for 
the night. We have had reported thefts'i 
which occurred while the victim was asleep 
in an unlocked room.
Public campus areas are the next “best” 
place for a theft to occur. Purses and other 
valuables are left unattended at cafeteria 
tables, book store counters, libraries, rest­
rooms, etc., and are easily lost. Remember, 
we are an open campus easily accessible to 
vehicle and pedestrian traffic. With thei^i 
usually mild and pleasant weather at 
this time of year, we can expect a greater 
number of unauthorized persons on camp­
us with the intention of committing a 
theft. Therefore, it is important that cam­
pus residents report to Security all unauth­
orized persons in housing and academic 
buildings.
Again, because of the warmer weather, 
there is usually an increase in thefts from' 
autos. CB’s, tape decks, radios, and other 
valuables left in plain view are highly vul- 
vfsa$leP srttvw.naW.w~
can easily be removed. Invest in portable 
vehicle sound equipment if possible. You 
can then remove the equipment. Also, an 
auto theft alarm is a good deterrent.

---------------------------------------------------

.The Band waltzes out
An Album Review 
Album: The Last Waltz 
Artists: The Band
and Assorted Guest Stars
by Hemerle Rhodes
“Nothing good lasts forever” is a 
saving all too true, but luckily for us 
tftCre are ways to capture and preserve 
those special moments. The Last Waltz 
does just that.
The three album set offers many of the 
highlight performances from The Band’s 
all-star farewell concert. There will soon 
be a motion picture released by the same 
name that will put you right in the midst 
of the event’s electricity.
¿After more than fifteen years on the 
road, The Band decided it was time to 
travel a different direction. After consulting 
everyone and everything from astrologers 
to the Bible, they held their farewell per­
formance on Thanksgiving ’76 at Winter« 
land where they were‘first featured as a 
major rock act in ’69„ The show proved 
then to be a success as well as now„ This 
tiQe though, it proved to be more than just 
a great concert; it was entertainment per­
sonified. The Last Waltz marked the end 
of a phase of rock; it is typified as “the 
last of the true 60’s events**—or was it a 
beginning of new found interest, paving 
the way for what we now call Beatlemania?
But though The Band is of the same era, 
they need anything but to jump on anyone 
ell^’s bandwagon to stay alive. They’re an 
established institution in and of them­
selves, able to command not only large, but 
enthusiastic audiences, but a highly selec­
tive group of guest performers. There was 
such interest shown by other acts, that 
they had to start turning people away.
The album not only captures many 
classics from The Band’s repertoire, in- 
cl"iing Up On Cripple Creek, The Weight 
and The Night They Drove Old Dixie 
Down, but a sense of immediate excite­
ment from the impromptu setting. Other 
artists range from Paul Butterfield, Eric 
Clapton, Neil Diamond, Bob Dylan, Ronnie 
Hawkins, D. John, Joni Mitchell, Van 
Morrison, Ringo Starr, Muddy Waters, Ron 
Wood and Neil Young. As if having this 
c^glomeration of stars wasn’t enough, 
they all lent their talents to a climactic jam
session by Dylan that lasted 35 minutes. 
Emmylou Harris’ Evangeline is also included 
on the album along with the Theme from 
The Last Waltz whose sweet sounding man­
dolin sets the mood for the feast of music.
Exemplifying the wide range of memor­
able renditions are Neil Young’s Helpless, 
Robertson’s guitar solo in Who Do You 
Love, Van Morrison’s Caravan, Muddy 
Waters’ Mannish Boy, Joni Mitchell’s 
Coyote, and Dylan’s Forever Young. Robbie 
Robertson, producer of The Last Waltz and 
member of The Band, commented about 
the different artists who performed, saying 
that “Each of them represented an element 
of music that we felt needed to be re­
presented in that situation.**
With such a wide range, everyone should 
find something to their liking, and consid­
ering the talents involved, one will most 
likely find there*ll be little not to like.Beatlemania rages; 
Zemeck adds another relic
Robbie Robertson of The Band at 'The 
Last Waltz. "
Even though The Band has left the road 
behind them, they haven’t shifted into 
neutral. They’ll still continue to record 
(in fact, they’ve already cut some new 
material).
Maybe things can’t go on forever, 
but The Band proved some of those nice 
things can be held onto in The Last Waltz, 
And if what the album has captured is any 
indication of the concert’s intensity, I 
can’t wait to see the film.
The Band members: Richard Manuel, Rick Danko, Robbie Robertson, Garth Hudson 
and Levon Helm, on stage at "The Last Waltz."
A Film Review
Movie: I Wanna Hold Your Hand 
Director: Robert Zemecks
by David Sheward
Over the past five years the media has 
inundated the public with a mass nostalgia 
for the late fifties and the early sixties. It 
began with Peter Bogdonavitch’s excellent 
The Last Picture Show, gained momentum 
with Broadway’s Grease (soon to be a film), 
reached a peak with George Lucas’ well 
executed American Graffiti and crashed 
into rock bottom of video garbage with 
Happy Days, Laverne and Shirley and 
Welcome Back, Kotter, which though it 
takes place in the present day has the 
mentally of a 50’s situation comedy.
Robert Zemecks, under the sponsor­
ship of Steven Speilberg as his executive 
producer, has added yet another relic from 
the fabulous fifties and pre-protest sixties. 
It is called I Wanna Hold Your Hand, and, 
as you might have guessed from the 
title, it concerns Beatlemania. The time is 
1964 and the Beatles are about to make 
their American debut on The Ed Sullivan 
Show. Four teenage girls (Nancy Allen, 
Susan Kendall Newman, Theresa Saldana 
and Wendie Jo Sperber) along with two 
teenage guys (Bobby Dicicco and Marc 
McClure) take a limousine from a parent’s 
funeral home in Maplewood, New Jersey 
and travel to New York to get a glimpse 
of the god-like Beatles. The story is punc­
tuated by car chases, crashes, hiding in 
closets, screaming girls, tough broads, the 
slightest hint of sex and some booze. All 
this would be very nice if it were done 
cleverly, but each car crash, pratfall and 
limp joke is so obviously set up, that the 
audience can see it coming a mile off.
There isn’t much in the way of charac­
terization either. Each girl is a type: the 
intellectual type who we know will become 
a Haight-Ash bury inhabitant in a few years,
the pretty young thing type who plans to 
elope later, the fourteen-year-old smartass- 
imp type that we’ve seen a dozen times be­
fore and the girl with a camera type who 
will do anything for a picture of the Beatles 
and will later be a girl-reporter. The boys 
come out no better, nay worse. One is a 
watered down Fonzie and the other is a 
sloppy Ron Howard.
But there are some nice things about 
the film. A sequence in which a young boy 
with a Beatle haircut is about to be razored 
to look like a Marine, is cleverly handled. 
When Nancy Allen finds herself inside the 
Beatles’ hotel room her sensuous caressing 
of their guitars is both hilarious and 
touching.
The actors while not given much to work 
with, manage to appear likable and, to a 
certain degree, charming. They lack the 
vulgarity that distinguishes most 1950’s 
T V. characters. While the actors playing 
the fictious characters do all right, the 
Beatles and Ed Sullivan are made out as 
cardboard caricatures. Will Jordan, who 
has based his entire career on imitating Ed 
Sullivan at it again, making Sullivan look 
like a melting wax figure escaped from 
Madame Tousseau’s. The Beatles are re­
presented by four actors in matching suits 
whose faces are never seen. They do bad 
imitations of the Beatles’ Liverpool accents 
and are totally as unconvincing as Jordan.
While the picture is really just an ex­
tended episode of Laverne and Shirley, at 
least the main characters are not the sub­
human vulgarians native to such T. V. shows, 
and there is, thank God, no hyperthyroid 
laugh track.
I Wanna Hold Your Hand lies somewhere 
in between the brilliant character delinea­
tion of American Graffiti and the ersatz 
T.V. schmaltz of Happy Days and Laverne 
and Shirley. It is a not an unpleasant, 
bubble-headed little film.
PBT brings Versailles' elegance
The glamour and elegance of Versailles 
will be recreated on May 20, at Carnegie 
N&sic Hall, when the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre Guild will present its first ball, 
Bal a Versailles, to benefit the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre.
- versâmes. At the
reception in the Hall of Architecture,
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will give 
a short performance followed by a Sev­
enteenth Century dinner served in the 
marble foyer. Music for dancing will be 
provdied by Dick Bertini and his orchestra.
At this black tie event, guests will have the .......g wr insdn prizes willbe given.
Edward VilJella, one of America’s
greatest male ballet dancers and the princi­
pal dancer of the New York City Ballet, 
is the Honorary Chairman. Mr. Villella 
is the prototype of the virile athletic male 
dancer.
In addition to being a classical dancer, 
musical theatre and television, including 
Brigadoon and Carousel.
His long interest in the Pittsburgh Ballet
Theatre dates back to its formative years 
when he made numerous appearances with 
the company in Pittsburgh and on tour. 
He has partnered PBT’s Prima Ballerina, 
Dagmar Kessler. The PBT welcomes his
return to Pittsburgh.n. nrst tor Pittsburgh will be the General 
Chairman and Master of Ceremonies of the 
Ball, Mr. Henry H. Saenz, the first man to 
chair such an event.

---------------------------------------------------

page 24—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
Photos look at an era
A Book Review 
Book: Linda's Pictures 
Author: Linda McCartney 
Publisher. Ballantine
by Joan Livitski
Star struck (by celebrities that is) or 
bitten by Beatlemania? Then you’ll love 
Linda’s Pictures. Otherwise you might find 
it like looking through someone’s family 
album.
What makes the book “special” is the 
subject matter: mainly a multitude of rock 
stars. Typifying who gets into the picture 
are: Mick Jagger; Bob Dylan; Jirni Hendrix;
Simon and Garfunkel Ray Charles; the 
Beach Boys; Crosby, Stills and Nash; and 
David Bowie. But mostly one will see pic­
tures of the Beatles—together and apart, at 
home and abroad, at work and at play.
I’ve heard it said that artists and writers 
use what they know as subject matter. This 
must be true of photographers as well, for 
Linda McCartney capitalizes on the circle 
she moves in. Bordering on becoming a 
treasury of “at home” pictures of Paul 
McCartney, the book shows Paul and the 
kids in a wide variety of settings.
If these photos were supposed to capture 
Paul’s character (which is basically what 
Linda professes to be trying to accomplish), 
I’ve come to the conclusion that either he’s 
an extreme eccentric or a very aimiable
Museum acquires new art
The Museum of Art recently acquired 
two paintings by the 19th-century Ameri­
can master, Geroge Caleb Bingham (1811 — 
1879). Daybreak in the Stable, dated 
1851, a gift of Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. 
Kirkpatrick; and an early portrait of 
Q)lonel Thomas Miller, ca. 1834—35, 
purchased for the Howard N. Eavenson 
American Collection. Another outstanding 
acquisition is by the Pittsburgh artist, 
Russell Smith, (1812-1896): Pittsburgh 
Fifty Years Ago from the Salt Works on 
Sawmill Run, 1834, purchased through the 
generosity of the Howard Heinz Endow­
ment.
Bingham was born near Charlottesville, 
Virginia. Most of his life was spent in 
Missouri, where he painted the frontier 
subjects for which he is known. A profes­
sional portrait painter by 1833, Bingham 
was a mutual friend of the sitter, Colonel
Thomas Miller, and of James S. Rollins, 
who witnessed the portrait in progress in 
the artist’s studio. In 1837 Bingham also 
painted, as a gift for Rollins, a miniature 
of Miller which is now at the State Histo­
rical Society of Missouri. According to 
Professor E. Maurice Bloch, noted autho­
rity on Bingham, the Museum’s newly 
acquired portrait was probably painted 
in Columbia during Miller’s 1834—36 
tenure as the first president of the Univer­
sity of Missouri (then Columbia College).
Russel Smith’s Pittsburgh Fifty Years 
Ago from the Salt Works on Sawmill Run 
is a panoramic view of the river. Beyond it, 
billowing clouds of smoke from the mills 
pour over the rolling Pennsylvania hills.
The three paintings are on view in 
Gallery 3. Museum hours are Tuesday 
through Saturday, 10-5, Sunday 1-6.
i!l 'I / / '
VER
ASCENSION 
THURSDAY
MAY 4
(Holyday of Obligation)
MASS SCHEDULE:
12:oo Noon A 5:00 P.M.
(Hunt Library Multipurpose Room)
SUND AY MASSES:
7:00 PJM. 
10:30 A.M.
Saturday Folk Mass 
Folk Mass
Hunt Library 
Multipurpooe Room
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy Heinz Chapel
Last Saturday Evening Mass until Fail —May 6
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday 
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
Last Daily Mass until Fall — May 5
MMmiGW TO ALL GRADUATING 
SENIORS!
CHIU’S R.C. chaplainc* nTtftftt W™ 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181
husband, willing to think up unusual 
things for his eager shutter-bug. Linda cap­
tures him at everything from painting a 
roof, to making faces, to sticking a rose in 
his mouth.
But for all this, Linda’s Pictures does 
more than satisfy Paul McCartney fan club 
members and Beatlemania fanatics. It 
provides a retrospective look at an era of 
rock for nostalgia buffs.
As a whole, I’d say Linda’s photo­
graphs are of a rather high caliber. Basically 
unposed, she does capture something of 
her subjects’ personalities. She shoots out 
of feeling, intuition, while avoiding things 
like light meters and the mechanics of 
photography. According to Linda, “If you 
have a nice day, you’ll get nice pictures.”
Of course, anyone who’s taken photo­
graphs knows that every picture can’t be 
a Scavullo (or even always be in focus), but 
Linda takes this all in stride. “I blow it 
sometimes. Who cares? I take pictures for 
the pleasure of it, not for the fear of it.” 
And truthfully, the enjoyment she speakr 
of in her work shows through. One can 
almost see Linda partaking in the activities 
she’s photographing (and we actually do in 
a few that she shoots into a mirror).
If you’re a Beatle or Paul McCartney 
fan, or just like good photography, you’ll 
most likely enjoy Linda’s Pictures. But as 
for Linda’s introduction prefacing her 
book, . . .well, all I can suggest is for Lind'’ 
to stick to photography and not try to'' 
write lyrics for Paul.
'Joys of Heaven' sung
Acclaimed Dutch soprano Elly Ameling 
will be the featured soloist in Pittsburgh 
Symphony concert performances of
Mahler’s Symphony No. 4 in G major on 
Friday, May 12 at 8:30 PM, Saturday, May 
13 at 8 PM; and Sunday, May 14 at 2:30. 
In the final movement of Mahler’s Fourth,
Miss Ameling will sing the song of the 
Himmlische Freuden (The Joys of Heaven), 
the verses of which were called from a 
collection of German folk poetry. Also 
on the program for these concerts will be
Vaughan-Williams’ Overture, The Wasps 
and the Haydn Symphony No. 94. Andre 
Previn will conduct.
Elly Ameling’s semi-annual tours of 
North America confirm her pre-eminence 
in the art of lieder-singing. Sie frequently 
appears with the orchestras and festivals 
of New York, Boston, Chicago, Washing­
ton, St. Louis, Ravinia, Pittsburgh, San 
Francisco and other cities with a veritable 
“Who’s Who” of distinguished maestri. 
Her recordings have earned the highest
awards (including the Grand Prix du 
Disque) and, for her services to music, 
Eliy Ameling has been honored by her 
native government with knighthood. !
Mahler wrote the Fourth Symphony 
during his tenure as director of the Vienna 
Court Opera. He revised the score several 
times, and the last version is dated October 
11,1910. It is a serene score with the excep­
tion of the second movements* sarcastic, 
even grotesque Dance of Death led by a 
solo fiddle whose strings are pulled high.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by subscription; though sor 2 
tickets may be obtained by phoning the 
Heinz Hall box office at 281-5000.
Faculty member makes area debut
Violinist Brian Reagin, a faculty mem­
ber at CMU and the Cleveland Institute 
of Music, will make his Pittsburgh debut 
at a recital set for Sunday, May 7 at 8 
p.m. in Mellon Institute auditorium.
Reagin and pianist Olga Radosouiljev- 
ich, also of the Cleveland Institute facul­
ty, will present Mendelssohn’s On Wings 
of Song, Beethoven’s Kreutzer sonata,
Saint-Saëns Introduction and Rondo Cap- 
riccioso, Mozart’s violin sonata in E-flat 
major, and Bach’s sonata no. 2 in A-min- 
or. The concert is free and open to the 
public.
A member of the CMU faculty since 
September 1977, Reagin, 22, began 
studying violin at the age of 7 with Kent 
Perry at Maryville college in Tennessee
where he won the young performers con­
test, sponsored by the Knoxville Sym­
phony Orchestra. Prior to graduating 
from high school at 16, he studied with 
sity, TiUrius iuausnei <» »** 
of Missouri Conservatory, and Jens Eller- 
man of the Cincinnati College Conserva 
tory. After completing his high school 
education, he studied at Meadowmount
(N.Y.) School of Music, with Ivan 
Galamian and David Cerone, who also 
teaches at both CMU and the Cleveland 
Institute of Music. For the past three 
summers Reagin has been Ceron’s 
teaching assistant at Meadowmount.
Reagin’s many awards include the 
1971 Dayton Symphony Orchestra’s Young 
Artists Competition Award; the 1975
Jerome Gross Memorial Prize for out­
standing accomplishment; and the Ameri­
can Society of Musicians’ Talmann 
Award. In 1976 he won the concerto 
competition of the Geveland Institute 
of Music which led to Reagin’s debut 
with the Cleveland Orchestra.
Reagin’s other professional activities 
include coaching with members of the 
Guarneri String Quartet and with Mischa 
Schneider of the Budapest String QuartetV 
He has participated in the Cleveland 
Chamber Music Seminar for the past 
assfs'larit"VotKtiimas«i*b~ 
town Orchestra, and a former member 
of the Antioch College Chamber Orches­
tra.

---------------------------------------------------

CINEMA
AB will present Taming of the Shrew on 
May 4 at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM in DH 2210, 
Admission is 75cents with ID, $1 without.
AB will show The Pink Panther Strikes 
Ujain on May 5 at 6:30, 9, and 11:30 PM 
in DH 2210. Admission is $1 with ID and 
$1.25 without.
SDC will present Dark Star on May 6 at
6, 8:30 and 11 PM in DH 2210. The film is 
free to the campus community.
Dr. Strangelove can be seen at 1 PM in 
the Museum of Art Theatre on May 12« 
Emission to the film is $1.
The Servant will be shown May 5 at 1 
PM in the Museum of Art Theatre. Cost is 
$1.
ART
Twenty-one artists from the Pittsburgh 
area are featured in a special show at Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
i he juried show, Homegrown III, is united 
by the common theme, plants, expresses 
a variety of media. The exhibit will be 
open to the public through Septmeber 15, 
free of charge. Institute hours are 8:30 
M to 5 PM.
The CMU Senior Department of Art will 
hold an exhibit May 1 to 11 in the Hewlett 
Gallery. Times for the gallery are 11 to 4 
PM, Monday through Friday.
Carnegie Institute’s Museum of Art will 
be sponsoring some new exhibits in early 
May. In Gallery Af running from May 2 to 
ov-ie 11, will be American Folk Paintings, 
and, from May 5 to July 9, Gallery D will 
house Three Decades of Sculpture by Tillie 
Speyer.
The Nexus Gallery at 119 Shady Ave* 
nue will display a collection of poems on 
Images of Love by Franklin Duck and 
paintings by Donna Edwards. The poetry is 
calligraphied by Kathy Gray Farthing. All 
tlnee are graduates of CMU. Their show 
will run through May 2nd with gallery 
hours being: Sunday-Tuesday 11 AM to 
3 PM and Wednesday-Saturday 6 PM to 
10 PM.
Jim Burford will display his paintings in 
Skibo Faculty Lounge April 30 to May 5. 
The paintings may be viewed 11 to 4 PM 
Monday through Friday.
The Treasure Room, Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, currently has an ex­
hibition In the Classic Spirit. This exhib­
ition will be on display through the Spring. 
It features a variety of objects from the 
Museum's permanent and private collec­
tions and is composed of ancient and Re­
naissance bronze and 18th century porce­
lains, enamels and silver.
MUSIC
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
will perform a free concert in Heinz Hall 
on Saturday, May 6 at 8 PM. Guest con­
ductors will be Bruce Ferden and Victoria 
Bond. Free tickets are available after April 
28 by going to Room 502 of the City- 
County Building downtown.
The Greater Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union will spon­
sor Pete Seeger in Concert at Heinz Hall on 
Tuesday, May 9 at 8 PM. Tickets are on 
sale at Heinz Hall and Ticketron outlets at 
Kaufmann's, Gimbel's, and Sears. Tickets 
are $4.50, $5.50, and $6.50. For more in­
formation call 681-7736.
Spanish pianist Alicia de Larrocha will 
be the Pittsburgh Symphony’s featured 
guest artist in upcoming concerts on 
Thursday, May 4 at 8 PM; Friday , May 5 
at 8:30 PM, and Sunday, May 7 at 2:30 PM 
at Heinz Hall. For information call 281- 
5000.
Calvary Episcopal Church will be the 
setting for music performed by the 
Pittsburgh-Oratorio Society on May 10 at 
8 PM. Admission is by donation at the 
door; or, information about reserved seat­
ing by becoming a patron can be obtained 
by calling 661-0120.
Works by Richard Wernick and George 
Crumb, both winners of Pulitzer Prizes 
for composition, will be featured on the 
last concert in the Pittsburgh New Music 
Ensemble series at Chatham College on 
May 7 in the Theatre at 8 PM. The concert 
is sponsored by Chatham College and the 
Pittsburgh Alliance of Composers. For 
more information call 363-0189.
' A concert of works by Eugene Phillips, 
a Pittsburgh composer, will be presented 
May 3 at 8:15 at the First Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues. 
Admission is free. For more information 
call 621-8008.
The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, con­
ducted by Buddy Morrow, and special 
guest vocalist Bob Eberly will appear in 
Heinz Hall’s Calvacade of Great Bands on 
Sunday, May 21 at 8 PM.Tickets are $8.50, 
$7.50, and $6.50 on sale at Heinz Hall. 
For information call 281-8185.
Oh, Music, the third annual spring con­
cert of the Point Park College Singers, will 
be held May 3 at 7:30 in the Student 
Lounge, Lawrence Hall. The concert is 
open and free to the public.
THEATRE
McKeesport Little Theatre will have 
productions of Godspell on April 28,29, 
30, May 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, and 21. 
Curtain times are 8:30 PM, 7:30 Sundays. 
The Theatre is located on the comer of 
Coursin St. and Baille Ave. Reservations 
are a must, so call 673-1100.
Camelot Productions will present the 
musical You're a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown from April 28 through May 21 at 
the Plaza Theatre. Performances will be 
Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 PM and 
Sundays at 7:30 PM. For reservations call
683-7770.
The Marquis De Sades Justine, adapted 
by Leon Katz/directed by Jed Harris, will 
be presented by Theatre Express on May 4 
to 7 at the Chatham College Chapel at 
8:30. For ticket information call 
322-4671.
Lovelace Theatre will present Carnival 
of the Seventh Moon through May 14 in 
the Museum of Art Theatre. Show times 
are Saturdays at 1:30 and 3:30 PM. For 
further information call 361-4835.
Point Park College Theatre Company 
will perform T.S. Eliot's Murder in the 
Cathedral in St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, 
at the comer of Forbes and Craft Avenues, 
May 4 through 7 and 12 through 14 at 8 
PM. For ticket information call 621-4445.
WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show 
week-days from 6:30-9:30. The format of 
this program includes music, news, 
weather, class cancellations, and traffic 
reports. WRCT is located 88.3 on your 
FM dial.
MISC.
The American Wind Symphony will 
sponsor Marathon of the Arts River Activi­
ties. on May 14. Registration deadline for 
the various boat, raft, canoe, kayak, etc. 
races is 11 AM that same day. For more in­
formation regarding racing or helping with 
the events call 281-8866.
Ada Louise Huxtable, architectural 
critic for the New York Times, will discuss 
Monday Morning Architecture on Tuesday, 
May 9th. The lecture will be held in the 
Carnegie Music Hall at 8:30 PM. For free 
tickets call 622-3313. The lecture is spon­
sored by the Westinghouse Electric Corw 
poration in cooperation with the Women’s 
Committee of the Musuem of Art, Carnegie 
Institute:
The Alternative coffeehouse will present 
Dwayne Thorpe on May 5. The show will 
consist of authentic folk music depicting 
the heritage of America. The Alternative 
is open 8 PM to midnight. For information 
call 682-6886.
Correction
A mistake was made in last week’s re­
view of The Death and Life of Jesse 
James. Scott Heineman, the set designer,
was cited as composing the music. This 
credit belongs to Scott Norris. Apologies 
are extended by the TARTAN for this 
error.
r\A Book Review 
Book: The Sun Fetcher 
Author: Michael Dennis Browne 
Publisher: Carnegie-Mellon University Press
by Joan Livitski
The Sun Fetcher does more than cap­
ture the star’s light; it transforms its rays 
imo metaphorical prisms that transfixes 
words into colorful rainbows. Sound com­
plicated? Well, Michael Dennis Browne 
makes it sound easy in his book of poems.
His subject matter includes things we 
all could have encountered: a pebble, an 
owl, plants, spring, a crab, a cat; but his 
angle of insight is at a far different slant. 
The images state what is so obvious that we 
clnstantly overlook. In his poem The 
Plants, Michael Dennis Browne so accurate­
ly describes the foilage as “a green book I 
keep, I whose pages turn without me." 5
Six Spring Songs typifies Mr. Browne’s 
™u wd.iaers off to fantasies of its own 
(especially with classes nearly over and 
. rm weather finally here)? That feeling 
just one of many that touch UDon a fl.YL^r
Browne's poetry shows the light
of a memory or a smouldering of a 
thought, is reflected in lines like: “Work­
ing outside,/for ‘dream* I type ‘cream.’/I 
add an ‘s’/ to a singular word, three times.” 
Michael Dennis Browne’s poems also 
deal with history and relating factual in­
formation, yet never in the cut-and-dry 
way of so many other “creative” writers. 
We aren’t bombarded with facts, but. 
rather read them fused with images and 
metaphors. Surprisingly enough, this proc­
ess strikes me as more effective for creat­
ing a total impression. 1 may not come 
away with any more of a historical data 
account after reading On the Arrest & 
Deportation of Solzhenitsyn, but some­
thing in me says I can more accurately 
relate the emotions he might have felt.
Other quite notable poems are: Crabt 
which takes a most insignificant of beings 
and transforms it into a magical entity; 
Bad Poems, which relates the fears and
JiWjnfty ftiem" u'hA" *U*'
unique rhythm. Don’t trust my judgment? 
Then I put Mr. Browne’s own question 
from Whale Music to you: “Is there music 
without him? You tell me."
After reading The Sun Fetcher I think 
everyone would agree, there might still
be music without Michael Dennis Browne, 
but it wouldn’t ring as true.
Michael Dennis Browne will give a read- 
ing on campus May 5 at 3:30 PM in BH 
255 B. This event is sponsored by Carnegie 
Mellon University Press.
andSun Exer- 
imagisticcises which connect mental 
exercises to physical motion.
Michael Dennis Browne’s poetry carv
turpc tho d«.». B.L. -2ÄAOÄtA Ä

---------------------------------------------------

page 26—TARTAN—May 2, 1978
S'n S wants to make you a star
by Matt Sweigart 
Publicity Manager S'nS
Gathering momentum from the success­
ful production of the 1978 Spring Musical, 
Woodwind, Scotch ’n Soda’s new board 
has leaped right into the planning for the
’78—’79 season. Script and score review, 
recently held, brought to light two musi­
cals, one review a-nd four straight plays.
This offer of seven shows is a marked 
improvement over the five offered last year 
and the one offered the year before.
Scotch ’n Soda, however, can and wants to
handle more, therefore we have set up the 
following policies.
Final decision on the ’79 Spring Musical 
will be made in the fall. The absolute dead­
line for the submission of a musical is 
September 6, at 8:00 PM in the Wherret
Room, Skibo. Samples of musical numbers, 
dialogue, and a scene by scene synopsis 
must be presented at this time; books 
should be very near completion.
Musicals, however, are not the only type 
of play sought after. Four non-musical 
scripts have already been submitted, and
they will receive reading in the fall. All 
other scripts will be given reading as they
are submitted, there is no deadline. Actors 
interested in doing readings should attend 
the first fall meeting announced below.
Radio scripts are also in demand. Air 
time is available, and a monthly show is 
the target. If you are prolific in this area,
and would like to hear your work on the 
air, Scotch ’n Soda, will sponsor you„
Scotch ’n Soda is now planning to do 
summer theatre. If you are going to be in 
the Pittsburgh area this summer and would 
like to participate, leave your address with 
a Scotch ’n Soda representative. Tentative 
performance schedule for ’78—’79 includes 
a homecoming review (hopefully a revival 
of S n S's ’38 review No Strings, a night of
one acts shortly after Thanksgiving, a 
review in late January, and last but not
least the Spring Musical 1979. The first fall 
meeting will be held on Thursday, Sep­
tember 7 at 8:00 PM, room 11 Skib"
Energetic, creative people are necessary 
in order to make the production schedule 
run smoothly; presenting quality enter­
tainment to the campus community.
The board of director is receptive to your 
ideas; members, will be in residence all 
summer. Our address: Scotch ’n Soda,
Skibo Activities Center, CMU . . . Tel, 
(412) 578—2107. If you want your name 
in the program, get involved!
The CMU Karate Club
"To win one hundred victories in one hundred bottles is not the highest skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the highest skill." 
—Gichin Funakoshi
Too much work at home? Too much work at school? Too much 
work at work? We have an answer. Not the answer, just an an­
swer. Come join us.
CMU KARATE Club
Beginners’ classes start after Commencement. Practice is held in 
Thistle Hall, Tuesdays and Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. and Saturdays at
Supported by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Spotlight on spring sports
PAC almost heaven
by CRE
Perhaps as amazing as the fact that the 
TMU crash is just about over once we hit 
May (or is it just beginning?) the Tartan 
track season is almost over. Well docu­
mented before, the team has enjoyed a 
large taste of success. They will carry this 
gusto into the annual Presidents Confer­
ence Championships held on May 5 & 6 
at Bethany College in West Virginia. Will 
it be “almost heaven” for the team and 
coaches? It appears highly probably that 
the Tartans will win the team title. Com­
petition will come from Cleveland's Case
Western Reserve and host Bethany, the 
only two teams to manage to upset the 
new, powerful Tartans.
Since last article, CMU has defeated 
two more opponents. Last Wednesday, 
Theil College arrived from Greenville and 
returned on 1-79 North as another beaten 
team. Carnegie-Mellon easily won the duel, 
though it appeared to be overlooked by 
an irrelevant discrepancy on the confor­
mity of team uniforms.
From Meadville, next came Allegheny 
College. The anticipation of a strong com­
petitive force proved false, when put 
continuad on paga 27
CMU dominates canoe
POC going places
by Kim Massed«
The Pathfinder Orienteering Club (POC) 
has been quite active this semester. Spring- 
break means going places and the POC did 
not spend its break in Pittsburgh. The 
weekend of April 1st and 2nd the POC 
travelled to St. Louis to compete in the 
intercollegiate orienteering championships.
The purpose -of this meet was to deter­
mine the intercollegiate champion. The de­
termined champion is the competitor who 
has the fastest time on the red (advanced) 
course. Along with picking a champion 
there was the choice of the intercollegiate 
team. This is a team of seven members and 
two alternates. (Meaning the top nine times 
on the red course). One of our CMU orien- 
teers made that grade: Ron Pontius was 
zhosen to be one of the alternates for 
that tip. _________________
Just last weekend the POC travelled to 
Athens, Ohio. Here the orienteerers came 
through with flying colors. Ron Pontius 
taking a first in his category and Roy 
Parker taking a first in his category. These 
two orienteerers were running a red (ad- 
vanced) course. Fran Matten, orienteering 
for the first time, took a third in his cate­
gory running a white (novice) course. 
(Categories are determined by age and sex.)
The weekend of April 29th and 30th, 
the POC travels to West Point, New York 
for another exciting meet and hopefully 
another victory.
The weekend of May 6th and 7th, our 
Champion, Ron Pontius, goes to Minnesota 
to compete in the U.S.'team trials, to de­
cide who will represent the U.S. in the 
World Orienteering Championships. *
by Ed Sullivan
Very seldom is a sport so dominated by 
a single team or person that the others 
show up to contest for second place. This 
seems to be the case with concrete canoe 
building and racing, in which Carnegie 
Mellon has no equal. CMU drove this point 
home very effectively on April 23 with a 
devastating 330 point victory at the Three 
Rivers Invitational Championship Concrete 
Canoe Race.
The CMU squad swept first and second 
places in every category except alumni, 
in which they did not enter any boats. 
Among the events were 500 meter sprints 
for men, women, faculty, and grad stu­
dents and alumni, a 2000 meter down­
stream distance race and a cross-stream re­
lay race.
Faculty advisor Red Whittaker stated 
that “most of the outcome of the race 
was decided before race day, during the 
winter and spring. The quality of construc­
tion. supervised by construction chairman 
Vince Lasko, gave CMU a design so far 
superior, overall, to other boats, that it 
actually won the design competition too. 
Other schools could have one aspect(fin- 
ish, shape) which is superior, but our com­
bination is the best.*’
CM Us team was described as being deep 
enough in talent that more teams could be 
fielded that would still be superior to many 
opponents. ‘The athletes who paddled the 
boats were strong enough that they could 
have won in less superior boats", stated 
Red.
Everyone can see the athletes who pad-
attf Hu* h -.ni.-t im. •¦i'll-‘»II ?he hard work
and long hours put in by countless unsung 
people, they would have had a much hard-* I 
er time winning. Congratulations and 
thanks should go out to the following 
people: Stan Diamond(organization), Tony 
Victor(financing and materials purchasing), 
Marry Weeks(P.R.), ‘Janice Caywood(pho- 
tography), Tony DiGioia and Lynn Ritter 
(student co-chairmen) along with Lasko 
the construction chairman.
WOMEN’S SPRINTS
CMU Boat number 5 came in at 2:15j0, 
again taking first and again followed by 
CMU number 6, only 4.2 seconds behind. 
Akron took third in 2:27.4.
The relays were some of the more event­
ful races of the day. The boats raced cross­
stream, so they had to fight the current to 
return to the starting point. More than one 
boat wound up so far downstream froirA 
their dock thay they had to paddle almost 
directly upstream to return.
RELAYS
CMU boat number 6 finished with 
devastating margin of over 72 seconds over 
the third place boat from Akron with a 
time of 10 06.8. CMU number 7 pulled in 
with a docking of 10:24.6 io sweep 1-2 foa 
CMU again.
FACULTY/GRAD SPRINTS
CMU number 5 and 6 took 1-2 again 
with times of 1:50.0 and 1:56.4, respective­
ly. Akron pulled out third with 2:04.6. 
CMU*S times beat the time of the third 
place boat from Clem son in the men’s 
sprints.
cootmuari on pap 27 ,

---------------------------------------------------

May 2-,1978 -TARTAN- page 27
CMU has V'bail champs, MVP PAC almost heaven
The CMU Club Volleyball team cap­
tured the Western Pa. Intercollegiate Vol­
leyball championship by downing Indiana 
University of Pa. 12-15, 15-1, 15-12, 15-12 
in Skibo Gym last Tuesday night. It was 
the team’s first championship in its three
Kars of existence.
CMU started off slowly, a common 
problem with the team during the season. 
They were down 10-2 in the first game, 
plagued by poor ball handling and a cold 
offense. A powerful spike by league MVP 
J< hn Price sparked the team to fight back 
fry- a 10-10 tie. Indiana held on to take 
the game 15-12.
^ in the second game, CMU showed why 
they were the number one ranked team in 
the WPIVA, annihilating IUP 15-1. The 
CMU offense, controlled by freshman setter 
Kris Scigliano, buried the ball again and 
again. Spikers Price, Follansbee, Chandler, 
and Pasternak showed tremendous power.
One might have thought the Indiana 
spirit would have been broken after such a
I ¿play of power, but Indiana remained 
tough, losing the third game 15-12.
In the fourth and final game, CMU 
jumped out to a 10-1 lead immediately,* 
showing good defense and blocking. My­
steriously, CMU then began to ease up. 
Indiana rallied with some key breaks and 
tied it up, 12-12. CMU buckled down and 
went ahead 13-12, the serve changing
1 nds four times before they were able to
conclusion.
Playing for the champions were John 
Price, Paul Follansbee, Dave Chandler, 
Larry Pasternak, Kris Scigliano, Mike 
Pochan, Dirk Kalp, Walt Tauche, Bob 
Culbertson, and Mark Johnson. The team 
had no official coach.
In summary, the 1978 season looked 
like this: CMU jumped out to sweep the 
first three WPIVA tournaments, eventually 
winning six out of eight to hold first place 
in the league the entire season. John Price 
was the league MVP with Dave Chandler, 
Paul Follansbee, and Kris Scigliano also 
on the all-star team. CMU easily pushed 
aside Edinboro in the semifinals to meet 
IUP in the finals. Not a bad performance 
for a club team that has been together for 
only three years.
The CMU Volleyball Club had its be­
ginnings in the spring of 1975 when Mike
Pochan and Dirk Kalp took a group of CMU players to several local throw-together
tournaments. The interest was evident, so
in the fall of ’75, the CMU Volleyball Club
was officially formed and funded with
Student Government approval. Along with
sponsoring an intercollegiate competitive
team, the club also provided the campus
community with recreational volleyball
and intruction.
The first competitive season in the 
spring of 1976 saw CMU finish second in 
the unofficial league to Penn State New 
Ken, winning one tournament and finishing 
second in numerous others.
continued from page 28
against the Tartans. The depth of the team 
glowed brilliantly as the Tartans swept two 
of three jumps, and won or placed at 
least second in thirteen events. A high 
point in the Saturday afternoon meet was 
Matt Wehrle's high jump. He cleared what 
at first appeared to be a NCAA qualifying 
jump; it was remeasured to confirm that it 
was a quarter-inch too low. Matt cleared 
6’ 7%”.
The conference championship will be a 
tough challenge for the Tartans. The team 
has a blend of youth with mature experi­
ence, as well as a small veteran corps with 
even more experience. All the elements of 
a successful team are there. Quality of 
times and marks are hurt by lack of facili­
ties—namely a loose-cinder track. (Cinders 
were outdated circa 1960.) Overcoming 
great odds to produce winning performan­
ces are difficult.
As I daily interact with these men, I see 
a concrete dedication to both facts of 
human existence. They use their bodies as 
well as their minds. They compete on the 
track and in the classroom. Athletes at 
CMU are considered a minor importance; 
which they are not. These are unique indi­
viduals on campus. It is so hard to accom­
plish in school and sport at this University. 
Those who can, should be admired.
The important thing is: our dedicated 
student/athletes will compete in the con­
ference championship. Support the team.
TennisTournament Schedule
Thursday, May 4, the 8 teams in the 
President’s Athletic Conference will arriveFriday, May 5, 1978
at the CMU tennis courts to battle for the8:00 AMFirst RoundSinglesFlights 3 & 6
Championship title.
1 Play begins at 8:00 AM Friday morning9:30 AMFirst RoundSinglesFlights 2 & 5
with first rounds at all six singles positions 
ending by 1 PM. The number 5 and 6 sin­11:00 AMFirst RoundSinglesFlights 1 & 4
gles matches will be played at Chatham 
College courts.1:00 PMFirst RoundDoublesFlights 3 & top bracket of 2
This is the first year the Tartans have 
hosted the PAC’s since entering the confer»2:15 PMFirst RoundDoublesFlights 1 & bottom of
enceinl971. ’
Case Western Reserve has dominated 
/"{inference play the past 6 years. In 1976, 
nllegheny tied for 1 st place for a share in 
the title.
3:30 PMSemi-finalsSingles
bracket 2 
Flights 4, 5, & 6
5:00 PMSemi-finalsSinglesFlights 1,2. & 3
Carnegie-Mellon has been among the top 
four teams each year coming in second to 
*Caseinl975. ’
This year promises an exciting tourna-
Saturday, May 6, 1978 
9:00 AM Semi-finalsDoublesAll flights,ment with a real fight for the top spot in 
the conference. In dual match play, Alle­11:00 AMCHAMPIONSHIPSSingles
.;r - :
gheny has uefeated Case by a narrow 5-4 
Victory and CMU goes into the race a real1:00 AMCHAMPIONSHIPSDoublescontender for the winning spot.
watching in the empty stands. Whatever 
turns out, congratulations guys, and good 
luck.
MARSETTA LANE TEMP/SERVICES, INC.
355 Fifth Ave. Park Bldg. 1104 
Pittsburgh 15222 
Phone: Downtown 261-6076 
South Hills 563-18012
Apply now for summer employment. Many jobs | 
available—typing, secretarial, etc. No fee.
imiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimijiiiiiiiiiwiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiMmimwiwifiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimii?
Domination
continued from page 28
The day was wrapped up in the cold 
rain with a distance race which started 
out of site of the Point up the Allegheny 
River. The boats were transported to the 
starting point by the Gateway Clipper. 
CMU again swept the top two spots to 
complete the destruction of all opponents. 
DISTANCE
CMU number 5 finished the long course 
in 13:09.8, moving up from their staggered- 
start poisiton of 14th to 5 th at the finish 
line. CMU number 6 came in at 13:54.3,: 
eclipsing the time of the third place boat 
from Akron(14:07.6) by 13 seconds. 5 
The large crowd which attended the 
meet was a very heartening sight for organ­
izers and paddlers alike. Even if you are 
destroying all competition, the sounds of 
cheering during and after a race have no 
equal for an athlete.
MEN’S SPRINTS
CMU boat number 5 crossed the line in 
1:44.5 seconds to take the top spot, foW 
lowed by CMU number 6 in 1:52.4 seconds, 
and Gemson(2:01.4).
SUMMEREMPLOYMENT!!
Royal Prestige needs students to supplement 
summer work force!!!! $150-200 per week. For 
further Information, come to:
Skibo Room 11 May 3 11 A.M.. 1 P.M., 3 P.M.
Iron City
Schlitz
Bud
Koehler 
Strohs 
Genesee 
Rolling Rock 
Hop 'n Gator 
Schlitz Malt 
Ballantine Ale 
Rheingold 
Miller Light 
Michelob 
Pabst 
Miller 
Colt 45
Genesee Cream Ale
Busch
Ouke
Schmidts
Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 PM
Quarts — Mugs - Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
CnmriMhu /fame FRESM CUT FRENCH FRIES Spec a ty Items. p|ZZA SERVE0 Til 3 AM
Hot Dogs—Choice of 12 Different Condiments
35 Varieties of Sandwiches621-7388
HOT DK SHOTS. DC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
* i. - i ti Î11I* I * I Vi ViViWWs. The Vi AWV*v* V* j V/i » it t tri Hi éiàAMàè
