MEETING CALLED TO RE-EVALUATE SPORTS
i
by Lisa Gordon
Four committees headed by students 
will spend the month of February 
gathering student opinions on the fate of 
the athletic program, which is currently 
beset by an inflation-shrunken budget, lack 
of spectator interest in varsity events, and 
pressure to increase funding for women’s 
sports.
A sub-committee on athletics of the 
Faculty Senate, headed by William Cohn of 
the history department, held a meeting last 
Friday for all students interested in the 
re-evaluation program. , The committees 
are: intercollegiate—headed by John
Barbour (football), and Charlie La Vallee 
(soccer), intramurals—Jeff Lettrich and 
Gordon Morrison, women’s ath- 
letics-Marty Lisberger and Elly Zim­
merman, and physical facilities-Tom 
Binnie and Willie Thompson. They re­
quested that students interested in working 
in any of these constituencies should 
contact these people.
The athletic department is now 
allocated 40% of the Student Affairs bud-, 
get. Varsity athletics is the most costly, 
with physical education and intramurals 
below it, respectively. Raymond Haynes, 
director of physical education and ath­
letics, said, “If the gross figure does not 
change, with increased costs and pay, 
something has to give. If this is the case, 
what [sport or program] would go first?”
According to Haynes, participation in 
the two top men’s intercollegiate sports has 
risen over the past few years. From 
1971-1972 to 1973-1974, the football 
squad had grown froms39 to 84 players 
and basketball, which last year had twelve 
players, now has 27. A junior varsity team
was formed as a result. One of the ques­
tions to be decided upon is how, important 
intercollegiate sports is to the rest of the 
campus community.
Friday’s meeting was attended by 
approximately 100 students. Various 
opinions were stated concerning the issue. 
Some students complained about the poor 
equipment supplied for both varsity and 
intramural sports. One football player said 
that athletics are essential outside of the 
classroom in developing discipline and 
self-control.
Marty Lisberger, an active participant 
in women’s sports athletics, stressed in the 
meeting, “Student input is the most im­
portant thing to the position paper. The 
administration has to see that students are 
concerned.”
Both Haynes and Earle Swank, Dean of 
Student Affairs, feel that the primary 
concern is declaring the school’s 
philosophy on athletics before any de­
cisions are made.
-
Marty Lisberger andphoto by Rick FrantzB tartan
January 28, 1975 Volume 75 Number 15
340 Break Food Contracts
by Lisa Lieberman
H&SS Applications. 
Down
by Qaire Lee
With less than six weeks to go before 
the H&SS application deadline (March 1) 
there is an increasing possibility that the 
number of 1975 applicants will be consid­
erably less than last year. 289 students 
applied for the H&SS college last year and 
as of January 1, this year only 198 
applied—a drop of nearly 30%.
Dean Betty Jane Lloyd suggested the 
country’s present economic situation is a 
fundamental force behind the prospective 
student’s choice of college. They may be 
more realistic in their selection of schools 
in relation to their own scholastic and 
economic eligibility. In addition, with 
seemingly fewer students intending to go 
to college, the potential applicant may feel 
that the competition factor has decreased 
considerably and may want to hold off on 
his final decision as long as possible.
Mr. William Elliott, Vice Provost for 
Enrollment Planning, felt the “dip in 
enrollments to be a sign of the times.” He 
stated that the goal of the students has 
altered in recent years. A liberal arts edu­
cation (specifically in the humanities and 
social studies area) to many students just 
doesn’t seem to be very promising or
continued on page 5
paste. I found it was cheaper and more 
nutritious for me to make it myself.” 
Otner student emphasized the inconven­
ience of being on time for some meals, like 
breakfast on weekends, and poor choices 
offered at certain meals.
NEW
CONTROLLER
APPOINTED
by Charles Mitch
Discontinuing the » Finance Diviaon, 
President Cyert has replaced it with an 
Office of the Controller, to be part of the 
Division of Business Affairs. Thomas R. 
Homer, Jr. has been appointed Controller 
of CMU as part of the reor^nization ef­
fective January 1.
Encompassed in this new office will be 
accounting, contract management, payroll 
and the Cashier’s office. Two reasons for 
this change were cited by Richard Van 
Horn, Vice President for Business Affairs. 
First, to put budgeting, done by Business 
Affairs, back with accounting, which was 
formerly done by Finance. Second, to aid 
in the development of ^ new finance sys­
tem which is to be heavily computer- 
oriented.
According to Van Horn, “The average 
continued on page 5
—shorter lin» in Seibo
photo by John Rose
Lines will be shorter this semester at 
campus eating facilities. Approximately 
340 contracts were broken between 
November and the beginning of this sem­
ester.
“This affects the food service income to 
a major degree. Contract feeding is our 
main business,” explained Rita Cohen, 
head of Food Services. A drop of 200 
students per year is expected by Food Ser­
vice.
As a result of this unexpected decrease
in student contracts, a loss of thirty-five to 
forty thousand dollars is expected. “The 
economy is hurting us... over vacation a 
lot of parents were asking if there wasn’t 
some way the student could trim some of 
his expenses...” Cohen said. She also 
cited an increase of cooking in dorm rooms 
and of pledges eating at their fraternities as 
reasons for the decline.
One student explained her reasons for
I abandoning Food Service: “All the food 
tasted the same. It was just like eating

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
editor’s note
SPORTS
Carnegie-Me//on’s varsity athletics program is in 
danger. Four different committees are weighing whether 
to maintain the program or abolish it.
It comes as no surprise that at Carnegie-Mellon, 
sports is spelled $ports. Financial concerns always seem 
to take first priority, and with all the economic experts 
on campus, a cost-benefit analysis of sports is inevitable. 
Varsity sports offer very little in the way of concrete 
data that demonstrates their contribution to the success 
of the university. CMU teams often lose, and because 
of academic pressures on the student body, most inter­
collegiate events attract insignificant attendance.
However, I’m sick of hearing all about the cost of a 
situation and nothing about the benefits. It’s time to 
consider the intrinsic value of varsity athletics for those 
students involved.If Carnegie-Mellon is striving for excellence in the 
professional areas, then the school has a responsibility 
to create well-rounded students. Participating in a sport- 
-as well as belonging to any student organization-gives 
an individual a feeling of totality, sense of worth. The 
experience can be as meaningful as the study of any 
academics. Through involvement with a student group, 
an individual has the opportunity to grow within him­
self and with the group.
And how about students who entered CMU as 
freshmen, thinking they would have the opportunity to 
play varsity athletics throughout their college career? 
Undoubtedly, the decision to cut varsity athletics could 
also have a negative effect on enrollment at CMU. 
Through the varsity athletic program, students travel to 
other states and see various college campuses. This travel 
experience can provide a frame of reference that broad­
ens the student’s perspective in relation to things going 
on at CM U.
For all of the benefits it provides students, the 
CMU athletic program costs relatively little. A recent 
ROST GAZETTE article stated that the University of 
Pittsburgh spent $130,000 on its women’s varsity athIe- 
tif teams alone. Raymond Haynes, head of the CMU 
athletic program, estimates we spend only $200,000 
for varsity sports, intramurals and physical education 
combined. One may argue that Pitt has more students, 
but when you consider that 1408 of our students par­
ticipated last year in intramurals and 263 different in­
dividuals played varsity sports, the comparison holds 
together. Financially, Carnegie-Mellon is making a minor 
investment. Before varsity sports are obliterated, stu­
dents should demand to know where the money will be 
spent instead.
Although intramurals are thriving, they are a sep­
arate issue from varsity athletics. The abolition of 
varsity athletics would create a need to expand the 
intramural program. More money might be thrown into 
the intramural program and still, this program could 
never satisfy varsity athletes, who need tougher compe­
tition than intra murals can provide.
Athletics at Carnegie-Mellon can only be worth­
while if the students, faculty and administration give 
their support. Mr. Haynes has stated that athletics are 
not publicized in the alumni paper and many professors 
are not even aware that varsity sports exist. The school 
must communicate interest in the athletic program by 
providing it with sufficient publicity.
Athletics at Carnegie-Mellon are by no means the 
"big time.” If students are disturbed because teams 
don’t win, perhaps Dean Swank should allot more mon­
ey to sports. For those who believe that varsity sports is 
a waste of money, they should protest against the ex­
isting sports program. The varsity sports program should 
be strengthened to work in the most effective way, or it 
should be phased out. Unless the program can be added 
to the list of University priorities, it should not con­
tinue. Varsity athletics should not be left to dis­
integrate; the administration should not be allowed to 
make an arbitrary decision regarding athletics.
The 1975-77 university catalog defines CMU as “a 
place that stimulates ideas without forcing direction, 
encourages imagination without neglecting intellectual 
discipline) and respects individual initiative ...” If this 
definition is really true, then our student body must 
decide whether varsity sports are contributing to the 
atmosphere described in the catalogue. / fail to see how 
Carnegie-Mellon can perpetuate the catalogue definition 
if we do not support the varsity athletic program.
—Debbie Siegel
TARTAN EQUIPMENT SALE 
ARTWAXER FOR SALE: Efficiently waxes copy. Foot-peddle 
included for hand-free operation. Puts thin coat of wax for 
easy layout. Purchased new by TARTAN one year ago.
$80.00 including bar of artwax, footpeddle, complete 
instructions. For more information call 682-4557.
tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan 
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark L^n^Chimsky
Photography Editor: John Shettel
Davfe Kanner 
Greg McKenna
Sports Editor: 
Features Editor:
Staff Writers: Diane Bottonari, Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred 
Freedman, Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, 
Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, Lisa Lieberman, Nancy Lyons, John Mangano, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, 
Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975-Page 3news comment
Sports Illustrated
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
U
Contrary to any other 
ught, varsity soccer, wrestling 
rifle will still be operating 
roUgh the school year 
75-1976. A Faculty Senate 
bcommittee headed by 
lliam Cohn, is looking at the 
lure of varsity athletics for our
diversity.
I have played three years of 
K-sity soccer for Carnegie” 
I'KHon University and these
¦ ars have been very rewarding 
I ars. Rewarding in friendships. I
¦ i a history major at CMU and
¦ ve been the only history major 
on the team for at least the last 
¦ree years. The friends that I 
fl.ve gained have been in other
departments and colleges of 
fj&tU. When trying to evaluate if 
I e money in the varsity athletic 
Bogram has been spent wisely 
l)U cannot compare it dollar for
¦ >llar to another program in
¦ hich money is invested, for
¦ :ample, to construct a building, 
™hich is a concrete example of
ere and how the money was 
t. Yet, these friendships are 
oncrete” also. A varsity sport 
ilvery unique in the sense that it truly provides a cross-fertil- 
tion of students from most 
rts of the University.
The level of proficiency at 
ich the soccer team plays can- 
nct presently be found in anv 
sical education class, intra­
dural sport or club level. In 
cjder to operate an efficient var- 
y athletic program at CMU, 
3th financial and student sup-
¦ :>rt are needed. By being a var- 
s|iy athlete, am I and other
rsity athletes truly representing 
e students and faculty of CMU 
are we only representing an 
'stitution that pays all our 
¦>sts, i.e. transportation, ref­
erees, equipment, medicine and 
in surance? Consider these two 
examples in the area of student 
sfpport. First, I received two 
honors last season, first team all- 
¦ ^C and Honorable Mention 
pall College All-American Pen­
nsylvania, Maryland and Dela-
v\ 111V.
wjieri
rant
¦om
ware. Presently, I am able basic­
ally to share these honors with 
the soccer team (the people who 
made the awards possible) and 
other varsity athletes. If I am 
truly representing this com­
munity then should not the joy 
and pride for the recognition be 
shared by the whole community? 
I am using this example not in a 
boastful way, but because I be­
lieve that the whole community 
should be happy and feel a cer­
tain amount of pride for any in­
dividual within the community 
who is noted for his or her excel­
lence whether it be in athletics, 
art, music, etc.
The second example in the 
area of student support involves 
attending athletic events. I un­
derstand the academic pressure 
that prevents many students 
from attending. However, one of 
the soccer players, an architect, 
has found time for soccer in spite 
of his academic pressures, even 
to the point of falling asleep at 
the half-time break. It seems to 
me that if he can give so much 
effort to playing soccer, more 
students can make an effort to 
attend the event.
By dropping soccer and var­
sity athletics, Carnegie-Mellon 
will lose a group of well-rounded 
people who have the academic 
qualifications and want to play a 
varsity sport without putting in 
an excessive amount of time as 
would be required in a “big 
time” university. Students and 
faculty should be responsible 
enough to come and express 
their opinions to the Faculty 
Senate Subcommittee. It must be 
decided whether the varsity pro­
gram is really representative of 
the whole community. If not, 
then I truly question putting all 
this money into the program. If 
you want to discuss any phase of 
athletics, please get in touch with 
me—my number is in the C- 
Book. Express your opinion.
Charles P. La Vallee
* u12
r ;r ;
THEMELESS CROSS-WORD PUZZLE
DOWN
1. ____cross the Mercy. . .
2. Anger
3. Particle
4. Ecstacy
5. Wallach
6. Icey rain
8. Boisterous one
9. ____109
10. It's time to go____ (chem. class)
11. Did____occur to you?
12. ___you mind!
18. Make better 
22. Psychic
24. Dead ____
25. Miss Arden
26 Seasickness (Fr.)
29. ____and Lace
30. Bore me 
33. Copies
35. College founded in 1400 (Brit.) 
36 Girl's name 
37. L.A. team
39. Miss Lupino
40. City trains 
42. Quiet sound
50. Hang__
51. Teak
52. White lie
53. ____fix
54. ____, Hot and Blue
56. ____ Maid
57. Wages
58. Prefix: Together
59. Bazooka et. al.
60. Friend in Nice 
62. Note of the scale
ACROSS
1. Of women and numbers 
7. What old time household servants 
did
13. To____is human. . .
14. Political pal
15____bag
16. Railway Express
17. Tasty dish set before the king
18. To the, Fr. pi.
19. Bulgarian coin
20. ____Maria
21. . . .this, a kiss is still a kiss. . .
?7. Italian currency 
28. Caine and Scotia 
19. In a mountain greenery, where 
God paints the. . .
31. "____in the Sun"
32. Troll dolls and wishniks 
34. Bargain
38. One rank of a series 
41. Desire
43. Volcano
44. Lazy
45. in pants
46. Thelonious
47. Space org.
48. ____mother (scouting)
49. Prefix : tooth 
52. By Frost with Ice 
55. Ancient moralist's 
59. Fuel
61. Static condition
63. Bring in the eggs
64. Pause
65. May mean good 
67. Powerful
(Answers to appear in future issue of 
the TARTAN)
BECOME INVOLVED!
THE TARTAN NEEDS A FEATURES EDITOR 
Election will be held on Jan. 30 at 8:30 p.m. 
Interested candidates call Debbie Siegel at 682-4557.
Writers, lay-out staff, and commentaries are always welcome.
R-U TIRED 
OF
POOR SERVICE??
if*
We service all makes 
Try Pittsburgh's Newest, Most 
Modern, Service Dept.—ALL 
Parts in Stock.
NEGLEY KAWASAKI 
5101 Baum Boulevard 682-1205 
P. S. We sell new Kawasakis Too

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
announcements
Be in the Wherrett Room, January 30 at
12:30 pm for the panel presentation: 
"Marijuana: Is It Only an Illegal Activity?:: 
A policeman, a judge and a district at­
torney will compare their perceptions and 
stands on marijuana.
"Intelligence: Natural or Articficial" will
be the topic for a lecture by Professor 
Herbert Simon, February 3 at 7:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. Another Campus Pro­
gram Planning activity.Campus Program Planning brings you the
first in a series of discussions on con­
temporary issues. On Wednesday night, 
February 5, at 7:30 pm in Breed Hall, 
Professors Allan Meltzer and Peter Stearns 
will offer a discussion on the futurism of 
despair as seen through Robert L. Heil- 
broner's book. An Inquiry Into the Human 
Prospect.
Takis Mouzenidis, director of the National
Theatre, Athens, Greece, will give a talk on 
Greek Theatre, Ancient and Modern, 
Thursday,'February 6 at 8:00 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom. A Campus Program Plan­
ning Presentation.
^Thereis'a^
* difference!!!
Over 35 years 
of experience 
and success
Small classes
Voluminous home study materials
PREPARE FOR:MCAT OAT LSAT GRE ATGSB OCAT CPAT FLEX ECFMG NAT’L MED BDS •
Pittsburgh Branch:
“ 681-9735
^5fa/n£kj-H. KAPLANEDUCATIONAL CENTER
Courses that are 
constantly updated
Make-ups for 
missed lessons
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
1323 MURDOCK ROAD 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15217
s m Major U S Cities
On February 4, at 8 pm in David Lawrence
Hall at Pitt, the feature color film The 
Traitors, will be screened. The Traitors is a 
fiction film about trade unions, Peronism 
and revolution in Argentina—based in part 
on actual events of the past several years. 
On February 6, James Petras, the professor 
and theorist on development and revol­
ution in Latin America will speak at 8 pm 
in G-8 of the Cathedral of Learning at Pitt. 
Both events are free to the people. For 
more information call 363-0885. 
ATTENTION: FINAL REMINDER! All 
students who intend to apply for financial 
aid must have forms submitted prior to 
February 1, 1975. Forms are still available 
in the Financial Aid Office, 210 Warner 
Hall.Ya wanna be a jock? WRCT needs new air
personalities, and any CMU student is 
welcome. To qualify, you must pass the 
Federal Communications Commission test 
for a Third Class licence, which will be 
given in Pittsburgh next month. Appli­
cations must be submitted before the end 
of January, for study , guides and/or more 
information, call WRCT^at 621-9728 or 
Andy Beary at 681-6984.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
announces its Winter Lunch and Lecture 
Series at the University of Pittsburgh. On 
February 6 Professor Donald M. Goldstein 
will speak on "Arab-lsraeli Conflict: A Dif­
ferent Approach." The time is noon on 
Thursdays in the Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Beliefield Ave. Lunch is optional. 
The speaker begins at 12:20 pm. All grad­
uate and undergraduate students and fac­
ulty welcome.
The Philosophy Club of Duquesne Univer­
sity is pleased to announce the following 
lecture: Professor Robert E. Wood, Visiting 
Professor, Duquesne Philosophy Depart­
ment, will speak to the Duquesne Phil­
osophy Club on "The Seven Dimensions of 
Man." The lecture will be held on Wednes­
day, February 12 at 8:00 pm in Duquesne 
University, College Hall, Room 105.
There will be a meeting of all Spring Car­
nival booth chairpersons Sunday February 
2 in Room 46 Skibo between 2:30 and 
3:00 pm tp sign contracts.
TRACK meeting at Donner Hall Tuesday, 
January 28 at 6:00 pm; All those inter­
ested are invited to attend.
!------
EUROPE 
BOUND 
IN 15?
wouldn't you rather come with us?
Last year over 200,000 students sumnered in Europe. Änd the 
travelwise flew or charters because it costs about HALFS 
This yetr a ') - 6 week ticket to London is $512.; 2-3 
weeker $597. And its *767. for over six weeks from New York. (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there 
were two unforcast increases!)
Not only do you fly with us at half, but you can just about 
have /our choice of dates for 5, o, 7, 9, 1^ week dur­ation during the summer. And all you have to do to qualify 
is reserve your seat now by sending $100. deposit, plu.j $10. 
registration fee. Under recently new U. S. Government reg­
ulation. we mu. t submit all flight participants name., and 
full payment sixty day:; before each flight. If you take the 
June 21 - August 19 flight to London for exairple, deposit re­
serves your seat and April 15 you send the $199. balance. Just one price Tor all flights whether you pick a weekend 
departure ($15. extra on the regular fare airliner) or peak 
season surcharge .late.
fr,mplete schedule, or to be sure of your rê­veur deposit for one of our 1 to 5 weekly
depa«ber.depit.nruugh :;ept 
and for how lon,T. 
exact date confir*wt ion and receipt t 
f 1 iphtare v la fully »ei-tiftcateu, tijet and all fir.a cl»:K ,ervicfc. Krn® London th»;i-»; are inai.y 
student flight.. Xo all jiait.v of the Continent, frequent 
parture
pec Ify the week 
You will receive your return ma j1. All our . Government ;:t.it»iarit
iff the regular faro.
RCPOB4 1C Am SvrrtM» iNTe«N*rio*«i
• •3 rifTM «VENUI 
*#CW YORK NfV* YMK 10032
800 - 223 - 53«9 (TOLL FREE)
Charter flying is the biggest bargain
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold a Pitt faculty-student Sabbath on 
Friday, January 31. Services will be at 6:30 
pm in the Rogal Room with dinner at 7:15 
pm in the 2nd floor lobby (call for dinner 
reservations, 621-8875). The speaker will 
be Professor Michael Lowy of Pitt whose 
topic will.be "Roots in America?"
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
will have an undergraduate social at Car­
negie-Mellon on Saturday, February 1 at 9 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom. There will be a 
band and refreshments.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
holds a contemporary service every Friday 
evening at 8 pm in the Hillel Library. The 
service is led by Joel Fox on the guitar. 
Help write the service or bring your read­
ings and music when you come.
La Table Française will meet again every 
Friday at 11 am for informal chats in 
French. Everyone welcome. Downstairs 
cafeteria of Skibo, Staff cafeteria side. 
Watch for the little French flag.
Campus Program Planning presents "Rape: 
Who, Why, When, How?" January 28 at 
7:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. Four pre­
sentations are planned. They will deal with, 
"Who is a rapist?", the physical surround­
ings involved, rape crisis centers, and the 
University's role.
COFFEEHOUSE—Sandy Nassan plays jazz
and a touch of classical guitar. January 30, 
31 and February 1. Wherrett Room, Skibo, 
9:00 pm.
The Panel of American Women will be in
Breed Hall on Tuesday evening, February 4 
at 7:30. the Panel consists of four women 
(one Black, one Catholic, one Jew and one 
Protestant) who want to help others realize 
that prejudice and intolerance toward min­
ority groups are based largely on misunder­
standing and lack of exposure. The Panel is 
presented by the Danforth Associates of 
C-MU.
The German Conversation Lunch Hour,
11:45-12:35, occurs every Tuesday in the 
Kiltie Cafe. Meet the entire faculty of 
German teachers. German students, 
German speakers and anyone interested in 
a little foreign culture, are invited. Fluency 
is not, and never will be, a requisite.
Personals
Happy Birthday Mike and Shamu. We love
you.
Bananas
Dear Chewy Paul, Happy Birthday.
Love, Pooh Bear
There will be a three week Seminar series: 
Christianity and the University, sponsored 
by IVCF:
I. Wed. Jan. 29—Psychology: "Man in a 
Mirror" Dr. William White
II. Wed. Feb. 5—Art and Literature: 
"The Artist Revealed" Dr. Calvin Seerveld
III. Wed. Feb. 12—Science: "The Limits 
of Knowledge" Dr. R.B. Griffiths
Each of these will be held in the Wherrett 
Room at 7:30. This Wednesday night Dr. 
William White will be speaking on the 
Christian view of man in comparison to 
society's view of man and how that affects 
current psychological perspecitves. Spon­
sored by Inter-Varsity Christian Fellow­
ship.
Classified
Wanted: Black female roommate to share
luxurious Oakland apartment. For infor­
mation call 621-9483 after 5:00 pm.
Need a typist? 15 years typing experience.
Theses, term papers, reports, manuscripts, 
etc. Reasonable rates. Call after 5 pm 
481-3041.
NICE SECTION OF SQUIRREL HILL: 1
bedroom, large living room, bath, kitchen 
complete. On-street parking, queen-size 
bed, may be furnished or unfurnished. 
Near shopping at Bartlett & Murray Aves. 
Also near theaters and restaurants. Bus 
transportation. Call: Mr. Perlman,
421-9078, evenings and Mr. Quinn, 
462-7316. davtimes.
Typing: resumes, term papers. Reasonable,
quick, professional. Call 781-6762.
Female Volunteers who are sad, dis­
satisfied, listless, blue, low. Wanted for re­
search on psychotherapy for depression 
run by clinical psychologists at Pitt. Call 
Cari Fuchs 624-4496. Leave name, phone 
number.
Roommate wanted: Second floor apart­
ment in Tudor-style house. $81.25/month 
includes 16' x 18' bedroom and use of den, 
kitchen and bath. Act quickly, quite a bar­
gain. 5837 Beacon (Sq. Hill). 421-0650 
(eves.).
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
M/F roommate(s) wanted. 1 or 2 people to 
share 3-bedroom apartment. Call 661-3598 
after 6 pm.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Announces
WINTER LUNCH and LECTURE SERIES
at the University of Pittsburgh
FEBRUARY 6 — Professor Donald M. Goldstein
"Arab-lsraeli Conflict: A Different Approach"
FEBRUARY 13 — Professor Gabriel Zifroni
"The Role of Politics in the Theater"
FEBRUARY 20 — Professor Richard Gale 
"Might There Be Nothing RatheSomething"
TIME: Thursdays at Noon 
LOCATION: Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 315 S. Belief ield Avenue 
(Lunch, $1.15, is optional. Speaker begins at 12:20 pun.)
All Graduate and Undergraduate Students and Faculty Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975-Page 5
news briefs
MILITARY SCIENCE
\ highly decorated Army noncommis­
sioned officer has been assigned to the staff 
of the Department of Military Science at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Sergeant First Class Tyrone J. Adderly 
is serving as principal instructor in leader­
ship for the Reserve Officers Training 
Corps unit and as coach of the University’s 
Rifle Team. He came to CMU from Fort 
Bragg, North Carolina, where he was most 
recently with the Fifth Special Forces 
Group.
WOMEN
The panel of American Women will 
appear in Breed Hall at 7:30 pm Tuesday 
evening, February 4, 1975. The concept of 
a Panel of American Women began with a 
Brotherhood Week that went far beyond its 
allotted seven days.
PROFESSOR ILL
Dr Michael Sulman, assistant piuiessor cf 
history, has been in intensive care due to a 
heart attack. Sulman has had a heart con­
dition for several years. His main area of 
interest includes American history and 
using the computer to analyze historical 
data. Sulman is not expected to return to 
CMU this semester and his classes are pre­
sently being taught by graduate students.
JOB OUTLOOK AFFECT 
H&SS APPLICATIONS
continued from page 1
secure. He concurred that job opportun­
ities for H&SS graduates are not as plen­
tiful as before, but that they are there and 
that one would have to “work like heck for 
them.”
The director for Career Services and 
Placement, Mr. J. Dennis Ryan, elaborated 
on the job opportunities for H&SS stu­
dents. He stressed that the H&SS profes­
sional minor program has given the par­
ticipants a definite advantage over others in 
colleges where such a program is not offer­
ed. Even though they are not in the same
VANDANDALISM
FOLLOWS PARTY
by Chip Yeager
Late Friday night, two weekends ago, a 
party in the Hammerschlag House lounge 
broke up. Several off-campus people, 
whether for kicks, boredom or drunken­
ness , then moved into the other Hill 
dorms, ran up and down the halls, dis­
charged fire extinguishers, harassed res­
idents, and generally wreaked havoc. The 
trouble took an hour to die down; it was 
too widespread for Security to fully 
handle. The after-party binge caught sev­
eral campus organizations involved in the 
party by surprise. New dorm regulations 
have recently gone into effect to prevent a 
repeat occurrence.
The trouble began with a sorority party 
in the Hammerschlag lounge. Delta Sigma 
Theta, a city-wide sorority had advertised 
the party at CMU, Pitt, Duquesne, Chat­
ham and Carlow. Entrance to the party 
required a college ID from any of these 
schools. SDC Hill Area Vice President Bill 
Jacobs, who has authority in the school’s 
name to approve or prohibit parties in the 
Hill dorm lounges, said that the sorority 
had not expected more than a hundred 
people to show up. Twice that many came. 
Jacobs emphasized that the party itself was 
peaceful and well-managed, considering the 
numbers of people involved. It was after 
the 1:30 am deadline, and while the sor­
ority sisters had started to clean up the 
lounge, trouble started elsewhere.
Security was soon called in to quell the 
disturbance. It spread, however, through­
out Hammerschlag, McGill, Boss, Donner 
and Henderson. Resident Assistant Bob
Linn maintained that no CMU students 
were involved, and Jacobs agreed, noting 
that he knows as many Hill residents as 
anyone. By Housing’s count, six or seven 
fire extinguishers were discharged. The 
total cost of cleaning up after the rampage, 
including recharging the extinguishers ran 
to $265. The outsiders gradually filtered 
out of the dorms and peace returned to the 
Hill by 2:30.
\ Friday night’s binge pointed to the need 
for closer regulation of parties to SDC. 
Peggy Hair of Housing conceded that her 
office was caught unprepared for the flood 
of party-goers that night; she had been 
unaware of the city-wide advertising that 
the sorority had undertaken. By all counts 
Delta Sigma Theta was taken by surprise, 
too, as they had expected only half as 
many people to show as actually did. Such
a outbreak of trouble after a party had not 
occurred before, in recent memory; and 
SDC moved to keep i* from happening 
again. The student organization has 
enacted a regulation which would forbid 
any off-campus advertising for a dorm 
party held by any group. In addition, SDC 
will check out applications for lounge 
parties more closely from now on, taking 
into account the group holding the party, 
.vhat kind of party, and how many people 
the group can reasonably expect to attend. 
SDC area vice presidents also retain their 
authority to reverse SDC decisions and 
close down any dorm parties that get too 
rowdy, an authority that extends only to 
the parties themselves, and not to their 
aftermaths.
demand as engineers, they have a great 
variety of jobs from which to choose from. 
To help the student develop the “strategy 
to find jobs” is the job of all the counselors 
under Ryan.
He then said that while many organiza­
tions sent representatives to the Career 
Center in Warner Hall to interview prospec­
tive engineers, the case is quite the con­
trary for the H&SS graduate. He will have 
to go out and fine the openings himself- 
Career Services and Placement can only 
show him “what is out there” and what 
strategies he can use to better his chances 
for obtaining a job. Ryan stated that the 
bulk of the effort lies with the student 
himself.
March 1 is the H&SS application “dead­
line,” but Mr. Elliott said the date was set 
to “accomodate students.” Admissions 
usually receives applications after the dead­
line and still processes them if the students 
are eligible and spaces are available. Even 
though the total number of students will 
probably be considerably less than previous 
years, Dean Lloyd’s hope is that the great 
majority of the fewer applicants “would be 
just the 150 we want.”
FINANCE 
CHANGES
continued from page 1
student will notice no major differences, 
this is manily an invisible change.”
Previously, the Finance Division wfcs 
separate from Business Affairs. It was re­
sponsible foF thos>e functions now handled 
’ by the Controllers Office plus the normal 
Treasurer’s duties of cash and endowment 
management. Under the reorganization, the 
Treasurer’s Office, headed by George 0. 
Luster, handles these treasury functions 
separately from the new Controllers Office.
In an announcement of the reorgani­
zation dated January 8, President Cyert 
describes four specific improvements he 
wants to occur in the CMU financial sys­
tem: “(1) design of a simplified chart of 
accounts for CMU and overall sim­
plification of the finance system, (2) estab­
lishment of effective, responsible control 
of inputs to the finance system to increase 
accuracy of financial reports, (3) redesign 
of timing, format and content of financial 
reports, (4) development of an outstanding 
professional staff throughout the finance 
area/’
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
CONTEMPORARY SERVICE
Every Friday Evening 
8:00 P.M. in the Hillel Library 
Led by Joel Fox on the guitar
Page2—T
Help write the service or bring your readings and 
music when you come.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE(ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. CRAIG ST. 681-5411
HIGHEST QUALITY . . .
sharp permanent XEROX® copies 
on 20 lb. bond paper or customer's 
own letterhead
Lowest Prices ...
(per original)
................1st copy
3«............... 2 -20 copies^
2«................21 or inore copies
m
call about our large volume rates and 
delivery service - or any special copy­
ing needs
Collating ................No Extra Charge
Legal Size..............No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched___No Extra Charge
2 Side Copying........No Extra Charge

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
PCC to Offer Course in Handmade House
by Barbara Howe
Volker Hartkopf, associate professor of 
the Architecture Department atCarnegie-Meiion 
University, recently spoke to the Pioneer 
Crafts Council (PCC) at its third anniver­
sary celebration meeting at the Bear Run 
Nature Reserve, Mill Run, Pa.
“Regional architecture,” Hartkopf told 
the group, “has all but disappeared in the 
United States. Although it is possible to 
find a few good examples in older struc­
tures, modern housing today is much the 
same in New Orleans as it is in North 
Dakota and Maine. I am appalled,” he con­
tinued, “to walk into a room and see the 
thermostat set at 76 degrees in the winter 
and know that in the summer the air con­
ditioner will be set at 68 degrees. Modern 
architecture has lost its innocence, which 
we can’t go back to by being romantic, but 
we can learn from our mistakes.”
Hartkopf made further mention that 
trades that were once common knowledge, 
roof thatching, for example, are now ex­
tinct. It is even more difficult to find a 
book which explains this technique.
Slides taken during a recent trip to 
Guatemala that Hartkopf made with five 
associates were also shown. The Guatemala
Prof. Volker Hartkoph
Photo courtesty of CMU Public Relations
Hook-up Test Cuts Power
by Steven Correll
A routine test of CMlPs power hookup 
i lexpectedly cut off power in Skibo, Hunt 
Library, and the hill dorms for half an hour
S <turday night.
Had the test worked as expected, power 
jiild not have gone out for more than a 
w seconds, according to Director of 
xysical Plant Services William Banks. In 
ience Hall, Dougherty Hall, and other 
ildings west of the cut, lights flickered 
ice and stayed on. But in Skibo, Mar- 
ret Morrison, and the hill dorms, power 
mained off after the second flicker.
The university performs the test three or 
ur times a year, according to Banks. A 
/itch called a tiebreaker connects CMU to 
ther of two lines from Duquesne Light. If 
ie of the lines fails, the tiebreaker is 
pposed to switch automatically to the 
-cond line to restore power. Saturday’s 
st involved switching the tiebreaker 
liberately from one line to the other and 
ack again.
The tiebreaker itself worked normally, 
wording to Physical Plant Foreman 
Donald Fulmer, but the test apparently 
rased another piece of switchgear on the 
MU side of the tiebreaker to open. There 
as no permanent damage, he said. Fulmer 
iicated that personnel performing the 
test did not realize anything had gone 
wrong.
Originally scheduled for 7 pm, the test 
F as postponed an hour because Duquesne 
Light could not send an employee at the* 
heduled time. Testing the equipment 
suires workers from both CMU and the 
power company as protection against 
inauthorized shutoffs.
The blackout took most people on cam- 
us by surprise. The power surge blew out 
i projector lamp in Skibo ballroom and 
lunged an audience in pitch darkness in 
the middle of the movie “Patton.”
“I was standing on a pile of film that 
went all over the floor,” said projectionist 
lames Johnston.
The Tartan Grill was also caught with­
out emergency lighting. When the building
power came back on, the 220 volt supply 
that feeds most of the Grill’s equipment 
remained off.
The Grill’s cash register locked when the 
power failed, but a Grill employee reported 
some pilferage of food from the counter.
The blackout knocked campus radio 
station WRCT off the air in the middle of 
broadcasting the basketball game from 
Hiram. Despite initial fears that the cutoff 
might have damaged the FM transmitter, 
the station returned to the air later in the 
evening.
Except for a few emergency lights on 
the patio, Skibo was dark.
“I have to admit, people handled them­
selves orderly, really well. That’s a real 
compliment to the students. I can remem­
ber a time I worked here when that 
wouldn’t have happened,” said Skibo 
Operations Supervisor Dan Roberts.
The Computation Center, which was 
warned of both the scheduled test and its 
postponement, shut down most of its 
equipment before f>ower went off. The 360 
system stayed down for around three 
hours. The Computer Science Depart­
ment’s PDP10 system operated overnight 
without a swapping drum memory, which 
would not work when the rest of the 
machines were put back 
service.
in
RUGS
With your ID cord
For
Less
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s - $15, $19, $29, $39
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc.
Smaller area rugs in 
Oriental, Indian & Furry 
stylesCHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Ave., Bloomfield
i34-C Bus lets off at the store)
open daily 10 to 6 p.m., Friday to 8 p.m., 
Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATION A DIRECTIONS—621-1025
Project was an experiment with indigenous 
architecture (using what is available to 
build with). One slide shown depicted the 
natives putting shingles oh a roof. The nail 
was first driven through a Coca-Cola bottle 
in order to distribute the weight evenly 
over the shingle. The dwellings were built 
with one tool, a machete. The Guatemala 
Project was made in preparation for a trip 
to Bangledesh this spring to attempt to 
house the people.
Hartkopf s presentation served as an in­
troduction to a course in “Handmade 
Houses” that PCC will offer this summer. 
Workshop dates are July 14 through July 
25. During that time, an enclosed sheltered 
space will be constructed that will attempt 
to make the best use of the natural build­
ing resources and that will be environ­
mentally and climatically suited for the 
area.
The site will be in Mill Run, Pa. near 
Fallingwater. Participants are invited to 
camp nearby. It is forseen that the struc­
ture, once completed, will serve either as a 
workshop for future building activities or 
as a craft studio. No prior knowledge of 
architecture or construction is necessary. 
Guidance will be given in how to use the 
materials and tools available. Individual ex­
perimentation will be encouraged.
1 The “live in experience” workshop will 
be conducted by Norm and Ilene Tyler, B. 
Arch., U. Michigan. The Tylers live in a 
handmade house of their own design in 
Mill Run, Pa. For further information 
write: The Tylers, c/o PCC, Box 110, Mill 
Run, PA 15464.
PCC is a non-profit educational corpor­
ation. Its primary goals are to establish a 
crafts program in the Laurel Highlands 
region and to preserve traditional craft 
methods that are in danger of becoming 
extinct. PCC conducts on-going spring and 
fall craft classes and a summer craft work­
shop program. Last year’s student enroll­
ment reached 289. PCC also sponsors 
local in-school craft programs and stages 
exhibits.
The program of the Pioneer Crafts 
Council is sponsored by a grant from the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Council 
on the Arts and the National Endowment 
for the Arts in Washington, D.C., a federal 
agency created by act of Congress in 1965, 
Other aid comes from the Edgar J. Kauf- 
mann Charitable Foundation, the Roy 
Hunt Foundation, and the Alexander and 
Tillie Speyer Foundation.
PIZZA PRODUCTIONS 
Present
STEVE GOODMAN
Folk Singer & Guitarist
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1
at 8:30 P.M.
Gardens Cafeteria 
Morewood Gardens Cafeteria
50<t —CMU Students 
With ID
IN COOPERATION WITH 
AB CONCERTS
GIRLS ... .ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION? 
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able 
to teach one o# the following: Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing. Archery. Tennis, Tennis Director. Golf Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study. A.R.C. Swimming Instructor. Boating. Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General Athletics. Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college graduate experienced in camping. 
Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs etc. Supervise large 
staff. Write Camp Director. 2409 Shelley dale Drive. Baltimore, Md. 21209.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—January'28, 1975-Page 7
WWl7^',
W7^!77777/
Pff/
The Impossible Dream
by James Oliver Fletcher
Let me remove the slightest doubt from 
the Thomases, jocks and other possible 
non-believers—man can dance!!! Last Mon­
day night the Strand Theatre presented 
Rudolf Nureyev’s Don Quixote, sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh’s Student 
Union Board/Studies Cabinet. Congratula­
tions to the tasteful populus of Pitt. I must 
add I saw the film twice; once in the after­
noon and then in the evening. At noon the 
crowd was moderate, calm, and the em­
ployees of the Strand congenial. But that 
evening the line was quite long, the 
weather very cold, and employees moved 
as slow as “molasses in January” and acted 
as vulgar as the “hoi-polloi” in Julius 
Caesar. Once inside I was amazed at how I 
could have possibly failed to notice the 
beauty and grandeur of the theatre—such 
splendor would have dwarfed Versailles as 
grand ladies (kitchen cinderellas) floated in 
on tides of Chantilly and My SiQ. Soon, the 
house lights dimmed and I sat there once 
again to see the master dance
The challenge of a canvas as large as the 
Cervantes novel, with its endless possibil­
ities for character and mood was a subject 
that attracted Petipa, de Valois, Balanchine 
and Nureyev. And yet their presentation, 
while clever, was also rather boring. In 
Nureyev’s Don the Knight is made enig­
matic in order to give life to a banal and 
vacuous love story. The Knight is only fil­
igree, superfluous. And though the ballet 
should be looked at as a whole, I remember 
a basic mathematical formula that states: 
the whole is the sum of its parts.
The ballet opens with a pan view of a 
small Spanish village which is really quite 
huge and foreign to the common dance 
stage (Here the audience sighs). The den­
izens of the village pair off and dance a 
little, while all about them non-dancers en­
gage in various activities (cleaning, shop­
ping, hustling). The most popular maid in 
town is Kitri, the inn-keeper’s daughter, 
danced by Lucette Aldous. She slinks 
about in psuedo-Spanish manner, flirting 
and dancing a variety of solos.
Cut to: Basil, the town barber
(Rudolph). He is coerced into leaving his 
shop by some friends to engage in the 
festivities in the plaza below. Nureyev in­
troduces himself as the hero with some 
lightning footwork that makes his rustic 
friends’ “Pas de chas” look feeble in com­
parison. He sees Kitri and after a series of 
flirtations and misunderstandings, they fall 
in love, uniting at last in a bravura pas de 
deux. End of' reel one: where is Don 
Quixote?
Reel two: Quixote in another village is 
in his death bed, beyond hope. His servants 
begin to burn his volumes of romantic tales 
of knights and damsels in distress. As if 
there were some invisible umbilical con­
nection with these books, Don awakens 
full of life but somewhat deranged. In his 
madness, he imagines himself a knight and 
a neighborhood chicken thief, Sancho 
Panza, as his squire.
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
WANT A CHANGE OF PACE?
ISRAELI and FOLK DANCING 
every Wednesday
7 p.m. to 8 p.m. — Beginning class
8 p.m. to 9 p.m. — advaced class
9 p.m. to 10 p.m. — Open dancing
Taught by SHLOMIT CHUDIN 
WHERE? Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor. 315 S. Bellefield
CREATIVE JOURNAL
Anyone interested in submitting art work,
photography, poetry, prose, etc.
OR
INTERESTED IN BEING ON THE EDITORIAL STAFF — 
Call Roni 621-8875
315 S. BELLLFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
In search of knightly adventure, they 
wander into the village as the barber and 
Kitri dance their love for one another. 
Varying concepts of illusion and reality are 
focused upon, and the villagers decided tftat the old man is quite innocuous. Don
Quixote sees Kitri and imagines her as his 
Dulcinea and himself as her knight-errant. 
In the course of the film he “defends” her 
from the foppish suitor to whom she has 
been promised. He engages in battle with 
the wind mill, thinking it a giant of some 
sort, and he encounters a band of gypsies 
who, he thinks, are in hot pursuit of his 
Dulcinea (Kitri). Actually, she has simply 
been carried off by the barber. The story 
ends with the'fop defeated in a duel, Don 
Quixote thinking his knightly duty per­
formed, and Kitri’s father allowing her to 
marry the barber. Then, Don Quixote, with 
the aid of Sancho, mounts his horse and 
leaves the hamlet to carry out his new 
definition of reality elsewhere.
The film was unevenly balanced be­
tween the romance of Basil and Kitri and 
the illusion sequences of Don Quixote. A 
subtle weaving of the story and subplot 
would have been far more exciting than
long and often repetitive variations on 
single themes. For example, there is a seg­
ment in which Quixote conceptualizes him­
self in heaven. There are maidens dancing 
about in armor tutus and a particularly 
disturbing moment when a messanger of 
Cupid, replete with protective helmet, 
enters on point, takes aim, and shoots 
Quixote with an arrow.
Robert Helpman who partnered Margot 
Fonteyn and Markova from the mid­
thirties into the forties with the Sadler 
Wells Company was impressive as Quixote. 
Noted for his fine mime, dancing and act­
ing, Helpman brought a reverence to the 
role that rarely faltered. But I thought it 
very un-knightly to find his nails pol­
ished ...
Lucette Aldous was competent despite 
the shadow cast over her by her famed 
partner. She looks remarkably like Fon­
teyn but there ends the resemblance. Al­
though her legato was excellent, her 
adagio, especially when unpartnered, left a 
great deal to be desired. Her port de bras 
was static, calculated and perfunctory. 
There was a noticeable lack of fluidity 
about her movements that suggested un­
certainty. Though a promising technician, 
she lacked the fire to make her perform­
ance more than mediocre.
Until recently the filming of dance had 
been an almost impossible dream. But in 
this day and age, there is very little reason 
for a badly filmed ballet. The film itself 
was only a fair copy that had several unin­
tended lighting changes, sound track prob­
lems and obvious cuts with poor splices. I 
will not attempt to analyze the filming 
technique, for it is not my forte—but when 
a lack of consistent quality attracts the 
untrained eye, something is generally 
amiss.
NUREYEV
Much has been written about Nureyev’s 
dancing—his elevation, speed, balance, ex­
tension and agility. When he became guest 
artist and guest choreographer with the 
Australian Ballet for the mounting of Don 
Quixote, all knew it would be a vehicle for 
Nureyev to star in . His dancing in the film 
is flawless. This might have been because of 
the only moderately difficult choreo­
graphy, the capability of the other dancers, 
editing, or, last but not least, his superb 
craftsmanship. I prefer the latter reason. 
From the moment he first steps onto the 
stage (audience emits a sigh here) to the 
final credits we are held spellbound by this 
winged Mercury. He is not earth-bound, 
and as he begins his battle with gravity, he 
astonishes us with an array of footwork 
that serves to beguile even more. His feats 
in the film are too few and serve only as 
teasers. “Compared to what he’s doing at 
the Uris in New York this performance was 
filmed on a bad day,” a friend told me. 
Another friend, speaking of the same per­
formance, said she left the theatre in tears.
Style. He has been accused and crit­
icized for his sacrifice of technique for 
style. But he has a style now perfected, 
all his own. When one goes to see Nureyev 
dance one expects to see an electrically 
charged performance. Now is the time to 
see him, for at 36 years of age, he considers; 
himself at his peak.
He mimes as if he were talking. His 
gestures, though clearly Nureyev, are not 
strained or pretentious. When he reaches 
for his partner his shoulders and upper 
chest lift, as if he were serving those strik­
ing TartaT features on a platter. When per­
forming his solos he expends most of his 
energy on speed and elevation; less on re­
covery and fluidity. A fault? Maybe. But it 
is his style. With many dancers, the hands 
and feet become cursory and peripheral, 
but Nureyev’s are always where he wants 
them. After executing several “jetes” and
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
?????????????
by Quiff
I have a terrible secret to admit to 
everyone this week. I had planned this big 
spiel about how I was searching for a 
bummer of an album to review, when I 
came across this amazing record, written 
and performed by an artist who has 
scraped the bottom of his soul to find the 
inner truth. The artist is Jackson Browne 
and this new record is Late for the Sky.
Whether you like Jackson Browne or 
not, you have to admit that the man has 
received very little attention. This Californ­
ian singer has accomplished a great deal in 
his young career, Jackson Browne is re­
sponsible for the hit single “Doctor My 
Eyes,” which made the rounds a few 
seasons ago. His work with the rock band,' 
the Eagles, helped produce the monster hit, 
“Take It Easy.”
In terms of actual years, Jackson 
Browne has been around for a good while. 
He had earned a recording contract with 
Electra Records when he was only seven­
teen years of age. Only a year or so later, 
Jackson Browne found himself in New 
York City during the height of the whole 
Andy Warhol-Velvet Underground scene. 
Somehow between all the parties and the 
neon pop art shows, Browne found the 
time to trade ideas with Leonard Cohen, 
Phil Ochs, and the original Nitty Gritty 
Dirt Band. When the plastic lid exploded, 
Jackson Browne found himself blown clear 
back to California. It was back in Cali­
fornia that Jackson Browne met up with 
super record manager David (Asylum) 
Geffen. Geffen provided Jackson Browne 
with the time, care and money to establish 
him as one of the best folk/rock stars on 
the west coast.
Browne survived all the problems of a 
star growing up. His million dollar sellers 
are now old facts, superstardom is standing 
elusively around the corner and many 
blame that on his own low-keyed style.
Late for the Sky is a glimpse of this 
performer’s alienated visions. It comes off 
sounding like Jackson Browne playing his 
guitar to an audience that has already 
meandered home. The music is really love­
ly and always boaiering on jhe soft side of 
rock. Browne’s voice is particularly strong 
but not extremely flashy. The words com­
bined with the musical arrangements pro-
vide the most sensitive one-two punch that 
I’ve heard from an American performer, in 
quite some time.
From the very beginning of Late for the 
Sky it is apparent that Jackson Browne is 
concerned with factors of time, life and 
death. The title cut shows clearly that the 
singer is feeling the lonliness of everyday 
living. Browne strains his voice (something 
he does rarely) to accent the beautiful 
words. This cut deserves literally hours of
Vv
????????? frk'k'k
listening and contemplation. “Fountain of 
Sorrow” follows the title cut as intensely 
as the morning sun follows the night’s 
solemn darkness. Jackson starts it off by 
telling of some photographs that he’s hold­
ing in his hand. These are photographs of a 
close friend of Browne’s; a friend who has 
never seen these particular snapshots. The 
pictures remind the singer of some happy/ 
sad times once shared with this person. 
Fountain of sorrow 
Fountain of light.
You’ve heard the hollow sound 
Of your own steps in flight.
You’ve had to run sometimes 
but now you’re alright, 
and it’s good to see your smiling face 
tonight.*
There’s a tremendous amount of poetic 
grace exercised here. One gets the feeling 
that even the rhymes of Jackson Browne 
can’t set the world right. Something deep
B'NAI B’RITH HILLEL—JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER @
Pitt Faculty-Student Sabbath
FRIDAY JANUARY 31
6:30 P.M. — Services in the Rogal Room 
7:15 P.M. — Dinner, 2nd Floor Lobby
($3.35 for dinner, call for reservation by 
January 29, 621-8875) 
or Just Come for the Speaker:
PROFESSOR MICHAEL LOWY, Pitt 
TOPIC Moots in America?
1c********
UNDERGRADUATE SOCIAL
at Carnegie-Mellon 
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 1 9 P.M.
WHERE? Skibo Ballroom Band and Refreshments
DONATION: 75<
315 S. BELIEF I ELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
down inside tells me that this is just the 
mood that Browne is purposely evoking. 
The catchy piano and the gentle refrain 
seem to say that “Fountain of Sorrow” is 
the epitomy of this album’s well planned 
message.
“Further On” continues the same train 
of thought and it proves a fine lead-in to 
“The Late Show.” Here the poetry be­
comes fearfully real, almost to the point 
where one thinks that the words are cap­
turing the image too well. Browne reflects 
on the countless numbers of people who 
just don’t seem to care. The words become 
a shredder, grinding reality down to its true 
form. Allusions to mirrors seem to be just 
the perfect metaphor for this song. David 
Lindley, who is Jackson Browne’s close 
companion and guitar player, proves him­
self to be a musician of impeccable taste, 
especially on this particular cut. His slide 
guitar flavors the singer’s words and the 
clean sound of the guitar wins him the 
Duane Allman slide guitar player award.
Side two starts things off in a “boogie- 
on” mood. “The Sky and the Road” brings 
out all the ideas of time and maturity. 
Browne slips a little when he starts making 
references to stolen cars, but we forgive 
him soon enough. The cut “For a Dancer” 
is the beginning of the end. The violin is 
hauntingly crisp and slices through
some sharp piano and bass instrumen­
tation. Believe it or not, the vocal har­
monies soujid not unlike some old Beatle
backups.
“Walking Slow” is bringing the record 
full circle. As the music starts to pick up, 
Jackson Browne has started to see the light 
of day. There seems to be a new optimism 
in his voice when he tells the listen* that 
there’s reason to get out there and dance. 
Now the bass and drum do their thing and 
it makes for a high steppin’ song.
All good things gotta end (so they say) 
and “Before the Deluge” tells the listener 
that it’s time to call it quits. This song is 
about picking up the pieces after the heart­
breaks and sorrows that we all face in life. 
Browne has reconciled himself and the 
record goes out on a little happier note. 
Again, David Lindley shows his stuff, this 
time on the fiddle. Watch for the funky 
Irish fiddle ending and ponder:
Let the music keep our spirits high,
Let the buildings keep our children dry, 
When the life that’s lost within us 
reaches the sky.*
I don’t know about you, but words like 
that keep this ole listener feeling snug and 
dry. With that boyish smile, Jackson 
Browne has succeeded in putting a con- 
eptual album together that captures all the 
truth and beauty of a lonesome Monday 
morning sky. I’ve got the impression that 
Jackson Browne is leaning out that win­
dow, just across the way, watchin’ and 
writing it all down (and that’s the truth— 
nahh).
* Jackson Browne Benchmark Music 1974
NEW KENSINGTON
(fSUP€Rj§ HOLIDAY INN presents: 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31st
ONE NIGHT ONLY Two Shows at 10 P.M. & MidnightMAYNARDFERGUSON
and his orchestra
$9951tiiWhy ourIDy cd0Rm
per person Choice of Beef, Chicken or Shrimp.
Dance to Buddy Lee Orchestra in our fantastic Grand Ballroom
CALL 335-9171 TODAY
FOR RESERVATIONS
NEW KENSINGTON
COOCH
on rt 366 overlooking the Nightly In Lounge
New Kensington—Tarentum bridge /^on 5^
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMXJ’s Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
• Desk Lamps • Key Service • Artist Brushes
• Hot Plates • Poster Paints • School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUEOAKLANDPhone: 621-0923

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975-Page 9
r
O'ne eve/ on
by Arnie Karr
It happened at 8 o’clock—7 o’clock 
Central-on Monday, January 13, 1975. 
The announcer said, “Ladies and gentle­
men, the Smothers Brothers,” and, just like 
that, they were back on national television. 
The song was the same. The faces were 
fantastically familiar. Dick’s hair was 
stylish. Both were trim, smiling. They look­
ed like they’d had a pleasant exile.
TV Guide classified it as a “return,” 
contradicting an NBC ad in the same issue 
which heralded it as a “new series.” The 
NBC description proved to be more accur­
ate. Their 1975 version of the program 
lacked most of what made its predecessor 
on CBS such a success in the late sixties. 
Though it was great to see the boys back 
together, and though their routines were 
well-rehearsed and slick as a ski jump, there 
was a conspicuous absence of political mat­
erial. Tom and Dick acted like they were 
on probation.
Even worse, the writers didn’t come up 
with anything amusing for the guests to do. 
Alice Cooper, the token teeny attraction, 
danced clumsily through an overdone set in 
one of the dullest production numbers ever 
conceived for television. Redd Foxx, 
Johnny Carson and George Burns joined 
the duo for a mock awards ceremony in 
which memorable punch lines were honor­
ed. Like all such affairs, the sketch was 
predictable and the participants were stiff. 
One of the show’s funnier moments—a con­
versation between a tardy employee and an 
angry employer, played by any member of
the home audience who felt like reading 
the subtitles on the screen out loud—was a 
direct rip-off of Albert Brooks’ brilliant 
“Comedy Minus One” concept. All origin­
ality was furnished by the Brothers.
Tom and Dick, when they weren’t sup­
porting other people’s sketches, were 
better than ever. Tom was even more deter­
mined to upstage his smooth brother and 
his attempts to do so were richer and more 
visually exciting than anything we’ve seen 
him do. In the night’s best piece. Tommy’s 
guitar started off echoing Dick’s voice but 
wound up taking off on its own tangents 
and eventually departing altogether for a 
well-executed country jam with the orches­
tra’s banjo-picker. As Tom’s grin grew with 
the audience’s ovation, one remembered 
just how entertaining the Smothers 
Brothers can be. I found myself wishing 
that NBC would get rid of its psuedo- 
modernistic set and big-name guest stars 
and just let the Smothers Brothers perform 
that unique brand of comedy that TV has 
been begging for since CBS discarded the 
team five years ago. No such luck. Even the 
Brothers’ good-bye, often as long as five 
minutes on CBS and worth every second of 
it, was cut to a neat one-minute rap in 
which the two never really got started.
Though I waited for it patiently 
throughout the sixty minute program, 
there was no trace of the biting political 
satire that made the two TV’s first martyrs. 
Though their efforts paved the way for 
frank shows like All in the Family and 
M*A *S*H, the Smothers Brothers were ex­
tremely modest upon their return. NBC, it
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..................................................7:00 P.M. — Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M. — Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES .......................................................................Tech House
(M, T. W — 10:00 P.M.) (Th, F — 5:00 P.M.) (T. Th. — 8:00 A.M.)
Fr. Philip Walsh (621-2911). Fr. Bob English (681-3181)
The Community House is the Tech House • 5125 Margaret Morrison
ARE YOU A SON OF A B ?
Or An A,0,AB. If So, We Can Use /ou In Our Plasma 
Program. Presently we are using many students in Our 
Physician Supervised Plasma Donation.
You Can Help Contribute Plasma Needed For Such 
Products as: Factor 8 for Hemophilia, Gamma Globulin, 
Serum Albumin, Vaccines and Diagnostic Reagents.
For Your Time and Contribution 
You Can Earn $60.00 Per Month. 
Call Us At 682-3190 Tor Full Details.
SERA-TEC BIOLOGICALS
3407-09 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Mon.-Fri.
seems, has given the two a type of amnesty 
package for comedians victimized by Viet­
nam, not unlike the one Gerald Ford 
offered to the draft dodgers: the team can 
appear again, but they have to do what the 
network tells them, no matter how tedious.
The analogy doesn’t stop there either. 
Like the Ford package, NBC’s rendition of 
The Smothers Brothers Show is a tremen­
dous disappointment, well on its way to 
failure. No show, regardless of the size of 
its budget, can succeed with the network 
trying to keep the stars in line while the 
entire audience wants nothing more than 
to see them get out of line, and as far out 
as possible. Tom and Dick are in quite a 
dilemma. They must either seize power and 
risk another cancellation for irreverence or 
do it NBC’s way and risk low ratings. 
America will accept nothing less than the 
most outrageous unorthodoxy from tele­
vision’s premier anti-puritans.
continued from page 7 
amazing “tours a la seconde,” his feet slide 
into a proper fifth position while the hands 
remain exquisitely calm.
More than a dancer:, Nureyev has 
theatrical presence, with charismatic charm 
and a sensuality that pervades every move. 
Speed-he is possessed by the kind of fierce 
impassioned quickness that makes a sim­
ple run stunning. Clarity—he turns out a 
series of steps, each with the same exact 
amount of attention. Elevations and exten­
sions that have set new rules have only 
recently been threatened by Baryshnikov. 
While preparations are invisible, the linking 
movements are emphasized in grand man­
ner; all part of his commanding style.
Writers have been employing their craft 
on Nureyev for the past thirteen years. 
There comes a time when words are just 
not enough. Dance and Nureyev are visual 
arts. When the next opportunity arises, go 
see him and be bewitched.
Note: Nureyev is not admired by all, of 
course, but then, not everyone likes 
champagne.
B’ NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Tired of the same food? Then try
CAFE HILLEL
Daily Lunch Program 
Monday through Friday 11 a.m. -1 p.m. 
Thursday is Deli Day 
WHERE? Hillel Dining Club 
3rd Floor, 315 S. Beliefield Avenue 
(Across From Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
Sponsored by Campus Proqram PlanninqPART II
MARIJUANA: IS IT ONLY 
AN ILLEGAL ACTIVITY?
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30 12:30 P.M. WHERRETTROOM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
Tartans End 44 6ame Skein 
Whip Thiel 55-44 In Greenville
by Jeff England
On February 21, 1970, Carnegie-Mellon 
beat Case Western Reserve in basketball, 
91-55.
On January 22, Carnegie-Mellon stop­
ped Thiel, 55-44.
What these two games have in common 
is not: (1) that they were both conference 
games; (2) that they were the first and last 
wins in a coach’s career; (3) that they were 
the last two times Tech has run away with 
a cage contest.
Give up?
They were the last two road victories 
for CMU, coming a month short of five 
years apart.
led by Greg Chambers with 15, in one of 
his better offensive games of the season. 
Paul Hamerly and Dane Wukich followed 
with 14 apiece, while Dennis Derringer put 
in 10 and grabbed eight rebounds.
Yasich was impressed with his defense 
also. “The matchup zone we’ve been using 
is doing a hell of a job,” he commented. 
“The other team doesn’t get an easy shot.”
Hiram, still powerful despite losing 
three starters from last year’s squad and a 
PAC game to Bethany earlier in this season, 
overcame horrendous first-half difficulties 
to deny the Tartans their second consec­
utive win and dropped them 2-3. The
THIEL
Freeburg
Campbell
Pom tel la
Fox
Thiel
Thierman
Santine
Simmons
Mix
Totals
CMU
Hamerly
Derringer
Chambers
Ward
Wukich
Jason
Hotimsky
Totals
FG
4
2
6
3
1
1
1
0
1
19
FG
7
5 
7 
1 
7 
0 
0 
27
FT
2
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
6
FT
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
FTA TOT
4
0
0
0
2
2
1
2
0
11
10
4
12
6
3
3
3
1
2
44
FTA TOT
14 
10
15
2
14
0
0
55
Last Wednesday’s game was also the 
Tartans’ second PAC victory of the year, 
with two defeats. It came against a 0-8 
team who nevertheless had been compet­
itive in all its conference games this year, 
including a 12-point loss to league-leading 
Hiram.
“If you can control the tempo of a 
game it’s usually yours, and we controlled 
it tonight,” pointed out a jubilant Coach 
Yaksich after the game. The Tartans had 
lead from the outset, building leads of as 
many as 17 before levelling off at 11 at the 
half. They were content to match Thiel 
point for point in the final period.
The balanced CMU scoring attack was
CMU
Derringer
Chambers
Hamerly
Ward
Wukich
Jason
D'Angelo
Klein
Hotimsky
Bonn
Botkins
Mackin
Maddox
Totals
HIRAM
Bolden
ludiciani
Niehaus
K. Chambers
McDivitt
Mills
Cropper
Gareri
Davis
Total
FG
2
1
8
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
16
FG
7
2
4
9
4
0
2
0
0
28
FT
0
0
3
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
FT
3
0
2
0
1
0
2
0
0
8
FTA TOT
1 4
0
7
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
1
11
2
19
4
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
2
0
37
FTA TOT
3 17
0
5 
0 
2 
0
6 
0 
0 
17
4
10
18
9
0
6
0
0
64
Terriers had so much trouble shooting over 
the CMU defense that they managed only 
29% from the floor by halftime. This, com­
bined with a 38% clip by the Tartans, re-
Greg Chambers played one of his 
better offensive games of the 
season.
suited in a slim 18-17 Hiram lead.
This was a little too good to be true, 
however, as all hell broke loose in the form 
of the lightning-quick Hiram fast-break. It 
has led the schoolv to its previous cham­
pionships, and it broke the Tartans Satur­
day night, as they went down 64-37. The 
Terrier attack was led by Kevin Chambers, 
a leaper whose 15 rebounds resulted fre­
quently in baskets, and hustling 5’7” Tony 
Bolden, leader of the fast break. Bolden led 
the squad with 17 points, and outjumped a 
man more than a foot taller in a tipoff.
W&J, who has beaten Bethany but lost 
to Thiel, will face the Tartans at home this 
Wednesday. Paul Hamerly had over half the 
CMU points, with 19, and Derringer again 
led on the boards with eight.
Commentary
It's Always 
Fair Weather
by Dave Kanner
Much to the anguish of my contempor­
aries, most of whom claim to have been 
born wearing Steeler helmets, it has long 
been my contention that Pittsburgh is a 
city of fair weather fans (it’s amazing how 
many of my contemporaries were born in 
1971). I am quick to point out that the 
Pirates’ 1974 attendance was down by 
200,000 over 1973 simply because the 
Bucs got off to a slow start. The point is 
that a team towards which one feels an 
affiliation deserves support regardless of 
whether they win or lose. Let’s take the 
Carnegie-Mellon basketball team as an ex­
ample.
It goes without saying that attendance 
at Tartan home games is slightly worse 
than inadequate. But why? It certainly 
can’t be the exorbitant price of a ticket, 
since the games are free with a student ID. 
It can’t be because the gym is too far away 
to walk over to. Don’t tell me that you’ve 
got too much studying to do because 
everyone at this school spends more than 
their share of time jagging around or doing 
nothing. The Tartans are a good, exciting 
team that should be a solid contender for 
the PAC crown this year. Paul Hamerly and 
Dave Wukich should earn all-PAC berths if 
they continue to play at their present pace. 
I’ve often wondered how much difference 
a screaming, stomping crowd would make 
in a close game, like the overtime loss to 
John Carroll earlier this year. The only 
possible reason for poor attendance at 
basketball games is that the Tartans have 
not won constantly. They’ve got a bunch 
of fair-weather fans on their hands.
It was commented to me recently that if 
the Steelers had lost to Buffalo or Oakland 
in the playoffs they would be the biggest 
bums in town right now. Truer words ne’er 
were spoke.
1FIGH/
CAfcäCER
r
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
* SOCIETY
YALE
June 2 to 
August 16
Summer Term
Regular Yale undergraduate term 
Full-time or part-time study 
Interdisciplinary curriculum
Programs in Interpretation and Criticism, The Family,
The Creative Process-Theory and Practice, Europe and America, 
Values and Institutions, Public Policy and Decision Making 
Environment and Natural Resources, History and Public Policy. 
Genetics and Biochemistry, China, plus basic courses
For application information contact:
Christopher T. B Murphy
Director of Summer Term Admissions
1502A Yale Station
New Haven. Connecticut 06520
203 432 4229 (after January 1, 1975)
If there’s anything we like better than launching new submarine
...its launching a new engineer.
wmEL
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
ON FEBRUARY 13
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Electric Boat Division
Groton, Connecticut 06340
And we’ve launched quite a few of 
both. Submarines are our product. 
Engineers design them. So when­
ever new engineers join us we see 
that they get launched properly.
TRIDENT and other on-going pro­
grams at General Dynamics offer 
rewarding opportunities to talented 
graduates in Civil, Electrical, Indus­
trial, Marine, Mechanical, Welding 
and Metallurgical Engineering and 
Naval Architecture. To arrange a 
personal interview on campus, sign 
up with your Placement Director 
now. Or write to: Leanne L. Sessler.
U.S. Citizenship required. 
Men and Women are invited to apply. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TART AN-January 28, 1975— Page 11
leers Win Big Twice
by Dave Girdany
The CMU hockey team, for the second 
time in a week, encountered little trouble 
in shutting out its opponent. The second 
time, on Saturday afternoon, January 
25th, at the Civic Arena, Indiana was the 
opponent, as the Tartans emerged 11-0 
victors. Again, as against St. Francis, the 
domination was reflected in the shots on 
goal-50 for CMU, 7 for Indiana—as well as 
in the final score. Larry Stuever scored the 
three goal hat trick, in addition to assisting 
on another goal, and Dave Cornelius had a 
five point day with two goals and three 
assists.
This game was probably the Tartans’ 
best effort this season. As a whole, the 
team skated and passed well, and this 
effort by your team showed itself in the 
final score. The CMU hockey team is 
playing good puck and deserves, as well as 
needs, the support of the student body. A
good crowd in the next home game, against 
Pitt, February 15, will help the Tartans.
Before the Pitt game, though, there are 
two other games. This Saturday, February 
1, the Tartans travel to Bradford to meet 
St. Bonaventure in an exhibition game. 
Then, on Sunday, February 9, they face St. 
Vincent, at Kirk Nevin Arena in Greens- 
burg.
SCORING SUMMARY
First period: (1) Cornelius 3 (Goldsmith) 0:16 
(2) Gallaway 2 (Arturo, Stuever) 6:26 (3) 
Goldsmith 5 (Cornelius, Eastman) 7:20 
Second period: (4) Hauser 5 (Arturo, Gallaway) 
4:35 (5) Kenworthy 3 (Goldsmith, Grimm) 5:49 
(6) Stuever 4 6:39 (7) Stuever 5 (Cornelius) 
11:08
Third period (8) Eastman 1 (Kenworthy) 1:53 
(9) Kenworthy 4 10:33 (10) Cornelius 4 14:11 
(11) Stuever 6 14:43
CMU HOCKEY SCORING-LEAGUE
PlayerGPGAPTSPM
Arturo467132
Stuever467134
Corneiius448126
Goldsmith45386
GOALTENDING—LEAGUE 
Player Time in G. GA Avg.
Sciulli 127:17 4
Johnston 52:43 2
1.41
1.71
0(^>==>
join MARCH OF DIMES
It Sounds 
Incredible
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across 
With More Impact Than The Movie.
You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who 
have different jobs, different IQs, different interests, different educations have 
completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These 
people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent 
educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equal or 
better comprehension. Most have increased it even more.
Think for a moment what that means. All of them—even the slowest—now read 
an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or 
Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They rpad every word. They 
use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how 
fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember 
more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's rightl They 
understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same
thing—the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson.
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. 
The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one 
Senators and Congressmen have taken.
Come to a Mini-Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a 
better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about 
your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The 
instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson 
will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved 
reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but 
the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn 
that it is possible to read 3-4-5 times faster, with comparable comprehension.
SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS
You’ll increase your reading speed
50 to 100% on the spot!
The FREE INTRODUCTORY lessons will be held today, tomorrow and 
Thursday, at 4:00 and 8:00 p.m. The lessons will be in Pittsburgh, at 
the Hotel Webster Hall (44‘B5 Fifth Avenue) and in Monroeville, at 
the Sheraton Inn-on-the-Mall (101 Mall Boulevard).
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS
Photo by Mary K. Gr
by Dave Girdany
St. Francis provided little opposition for 
the CMU hockey team on Sunday, January 
19, at the Civic Arena, as the Tartans 
skated to a 12-0 victory. CMU totally 
dominated the game, as the score and the 
shots on goai-58 for CMU and 8 for St. 
Francis—indicate. However, despite this 
domination, the Tartans left the ice at the 
end of the first period in a scoreless tie. 
Throughout the period the puck seemed to 
go everywhere around the St. Francis net 
except into it. Dave Cornelius broke the 
scoreless spell early in the second period 
and the Tartans went on to score six goals 
in each of the last two periods. Jack Arturo 
led the scoring with a hat trick, while Matt 
Goldsmith and Mike Kenworthy scored 
two goals each.
In the second half of the doubleheader, 
Pitt defeated Duquesne 9 to 1.
SCORING SUMMARY
Second Period: (1) Cornelius 2 (Grimm, Miller) 
1:38 (2) Eberle 1 (Cornelius) 2:52 (3) Goldsmith 
3 (Cornelius, Grimm) 6:00 (4) Arturo 4
(Steuever, Hauser) 9:14 (o) Kenworthy 1 (Miller, 
Cornelius) 10:14 (6) Hauser 4 (Kenworthy, 
Arturo) 13:47
Third Period: (7) Goldsmith 4 1:16 (8) Ken­
worthy 2(Gallaway, Arturo) 3:03 (9) Hutchison 
1 (Stuever) 3:22 (10) Arturo 5 (Gallaway) 8:19 
(11) Stuever 3 11:45 (12) Arturo 6 (Fuchs) 
12:59
Sports Future?
by Mike Pochan
The Carnegie-Mellon Faculty is seeking 
to establish sports priorities for the up­
coming budget (for full details, see article 
on Page 1) and the responses of the stu­
dents of CMU will play an important role.
This is a reminder to all students that 
care about the future of intercollegiate 
sports, intramural sports, women’s sports 
and physical facilities to respond to the 
survey that will be conducted sometime in 
February. Your opinion will play an im­
portant part in the administration’s final 
decision.
IM NEWS
More intramural handball teams are 
needed to have worthwhile competition; 
therefore, the deadline for handball rosters 
has been extended to January 28. Enter a 
team and win a championship!
Wrestling and water basketball rosters 
are due January 28, also in Mr. Birdy’s 
office in the gym.
The newly formed CMU Club Volleyball 
Team ventured to the Penn State New Ken­
sington campus and defeated Penn State 
and Plum High School in exhibition play. 
More news on this team in the future.

---------------------------------------------------

SYSTEM 370
Intelligence
Natural and Artificial
Page 12-THE TARTAN-January 28, 1975
Swimmer Win
RAPE Who, Why, When,
January 28 
7:30 pm Wherrett Roomand How?
by Diane Maddock
The swim team’s first victory of the 
year, under Jim Crist’s coaching happened 
on Saturday, January 25th, against W&J. 
The expected victory really lifted the 
team’s spirits! Beginning with the first 
event, the CMU team captured 8 first 
places to sweep the meet with a final score 
of 68-35. Last year, the team tied W&J 
56-56. So in comparison, this year’s team 
showed considerable improvement.
The 400 yd. medley performed by 
Gerry McNemey, Ned Uber, Bobby 
Matysek and Dave Bankert was CMU’s first 
victory in this event this year. The 1000 
yd. free style was a close race with John 
Rossi coming in second with his best time 
of 12:30.8 and Steve Cropcho taking third 
place. In the 200 yd. freestyle, Billy Gregg 
captured first place, while Dave Bankert 
came in third. 50 freestyle was won in 
much the same manner, with Frank Ditt- 
tman coming in first and Jeff Bland taking 
third place. Bobby Matysek finished 
second in the 200 yd. individual medley 
race.
Patty1 Dyke captured first place in the 
required diving and 2nd place in the 
optional. During last week’s meet at Hiram 
College, Patty won the second diving event 
and broke a pool record.
Neal Kushner came in second in the 2UU 
Butterfly. Frank Dittman took first place 
in the 100 freestyle race with a time of 
52.7 seconds while Jeff Bland placed third. 
In the 200 backstroke event, Billy Gregg 
finished first and Gerry McNemey finished 
third. In the 500 freestyle all of our swim­
mers fared well. John Rossi finished with a
Monday February 3 7:30 PM Wherrett Room Sklbo
Wrestlers Lose 
In Qad Meet
Professor Herb Simon
by Bob Kimicata
The Tartan wrestling team.showed signs 
of steady improvement in Saturday’s quad 
with Washington and Jefferson, Pitt “B”, 
and MacMurray College. W&J dominated 
the action, but not by much as they 
managed to get by Pitt 17-21 and 
MacMurray 15-19. Both results were 
decided in the final match.
W&J had considerably fewer problems 
with CMU in coasting to a 37-6 victory. 
However it was not all smooth rolling. The 
highlight of the meet was when Bruce 
Andrews beat W&J’s undefeated John 
Noble 1-0 on an escape halfway through 
the third period. Bruce is 4-1 in the PAC 
and has a 6-3 record overall. The 167 
pound sophomore was unable to wrestle
last year due to a shoulder injury and 
subsequent operation. He looks like a good 
bet to be CMU’s second PAC champ when 
the conference convenes in February.
Dave Weber will be CMU’s first PAC 
champ. Dave, a freshman, is 4-1 in the PAC 
and 7-2 overall. He upset last year’s 
conference champion from John Carroll 
last week at Hiram’s quadrangular.
Other scores were Pitt 24—MacMurray 
10. MacMurray 27-CMUJ2, Pitt 39-CMU 
0. The scores can’t really tell the whole 
story, since CMU had to forfeit two weight 
classes due to the lack of depth necessary 
to cover injuries and heavy class schedules.
close second and Steve Cropcho placed 
third. Amy Kilberg also swam her best time 
in this race. CMU swept the 200 breast­
stroke with Ned Uber finishing first and 
Bobby Matysek finishing close behind him.
The enthusiasm of the crowd seemed to 
encourage each and every swimmer to do 
better than their best. This was the best 
turnout this year, and now the team feels 
they have their school’s support both men­
tally and physically.
The next meet will be against Bethany, 
at home on February 8, at 2 pm.
Raped, 1907Käthe Kollwitz
Hockey
Feb. 1 St. Bonaventure away 5:30
Wrestling
Feb. 1 Grove City at home 1:00
Rifle
Jan. 31 Pitt-Clarion at Pitt 6:00
*will be broadcast on WRCT
CMU Grapplers in ActionPhoto by Bruce Edelston
This put CMU at a 12 point disadvantage 
to all three teams, over a third of the total 
points they gave up. In the case of the 
MacMurray score it would have been 
MacMurray 15—CMU 12 with 2 matches to 
go. Anything better tfian a draw (2 points) 
or a minor (3 points) would have given 
CMU their second victory of the year.
Coach Paul Steva feels confident going 
into the dual meet season which opens here 
Saturday at 1:00 PM with Grove City. 
They’ve been wrestling some of the 
toughest schools around and this provides 
the competition necessary for improve­
ment. With the toughest part of their 
season over, CMU looks good for winning a 
fair share of the dual meets ahead.
THIS WEEK IN SPORTS.
Basketball
Jan. 29 W&J at home 8:00*
Feb. 1 Allegheny at home 3:00*
Feb. 1 Women’s team vs. La Roche at 
home 12:00
