SPECIAL CAMPUS WEEK EDITION
BASEBALL 
Carnegie vs. Bucknell 
Thursday May 4ararait &tan
Are You Coming? 
Campus Week 
May 25, 2G, 27
VOL. XVI. NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1922
RENNY’S PLACE 
IS TO CLOSE 
CAMPUS WEEK
Four-Act Jazz Comedy to 
End Campus Week Cele­
brations. To Play at Schen- 
ley Theater, Sat., May 27th.
TICKETS ON SALE SOON
SOPHOMORE HONORARY
WILL CONVENE HERE
DURING CAMPUS WEEK
The Druids National Sophomore 
Honorary Society will hold their con­
vention in Pittsburgh during Campus 
Week. It is in charge of Pitt and 
Carnegie chapters. The features of the 
occasion is a banquet to be held on 
May 26 in the Schenley Hotel. All 
Druids and their alumni will be wel­
come at this, dinner. It is planned 
to be through in time so that the 
Mardi Gras can be attended. A cover 
charge of $2.50 will be made.
Have you ever eaten at Renny’s 
place? If not, why not? All the mov­
ing picture people eat there, and movt 
ing picture specials . . .' boy, that’s 
all they ain,’t got* nothin’ else but! 
Maybe ya aint heard of Renny’s «place 
yet, huh? Boy, yo’ shure are behind 
the times. Why Renny has the neat­
est, niftiest, nicest little- eats foundry 
and jazz beanery you ever lost your 
hat and overcoat in! Do you actually 
mean to say you don’t know where 
it is? Watch the papers for its grand 
and smashing opening at the Schenley 
Theater the evening of May 27.
“Renny’s Place” is not only the 
name of the classiest prune and dough­
nut emporium in Illinois, but it is also 
the title of the peppiest and jazziest 
comedy of comedies that Carnegie 
*Tech has ever piit out. And it’s all 
for Campus Week, too . . . the one 
and only performance in Pittsburgh 
before its New York premier. So if 
you want an evening of such synco­
pated joy that the lumbago will de­
sert you forever, buy a lunch ticket' 
for Renny’s Place at the Schenley 
Theater . . . the final splurge of the 
Campus Week festivities.
“Renny’s Place” is a brand new four 
act jazz comedy of life in a small 
town in . . . the author says it hap­
pened in Chester, Illinois, but we’ll 
say that it might have happened any­
where in the states. The characters 
are real people, whom the author has 
met and all their funny sayings 
and mannerisms (which only small 
town people have, of course), are 
sprinkled freely throughout the four 
acts. The play was written by Harry 
Hamilton, a first year student of the 
Drama Department, who has shown 
(Continued on Page Three.)
TICKETS ON SALE FOR SOPH
HOP—HELD FRIDAY, MAY 12
The Soph Hop will be held Friday 
eyening, May 12 at the William Penn 
Hotel. Get your preliminary tickets 
now from agents on the Campus.
Sophomores! You.r meeting. Next 
Wednesday. Ree. Hall at 4:30.
Commercial Convention 
Is Highly Successful
Attendance is Larger Than 
Than Was Expected
Carnegie Tech was the scene of one 
of the greatest conferences ever held 
for educational purposes,. Monday and 
Tuesday. Never before has Carnegie 
Tech been honored so highly as when 
so many prominent engineers and 
business executives gathered here to 
discuss the educational development 
of the commercial engineer.
The convention was opened with 
addresses of welcome by President 
Arthur A. Hamerschlag and Dr. W. F. 
Rittman, Professor of Commercial En­
gineering, Carnegie Tech. Dr. Glen 
S. Swiggett, United States Bureau of 
Education, was in charge of the ar­
rangements for this conference. Dr. 
Swiggett is chairman of a national 
committee on education and engineer­
ing.
More delegates from various educa­
tional institutions and commercial en­
terprises were present than were ex­
pected. The sessions were full of, in­
terest and enthusiasm, the most inti­
mate discussions taking place on the 
important problems presented. One 
of the most prominent speakers at 
the convention was Mr. C. R. Dooley, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
HONORARY SOCIETIES 
HOLD CALL MAY 25
Tap Da^ Will be Held on 
the First Day of 
Campus Week
On the first day of Campus Week 
the announcements of the elections to 
the Honorary Fraternities will take 
place; this is known as Tap Day or 
The Call. Following the Qualification 
Day exercises the various fraternities 
will announce their elections of new 
members for the coming year. The. 
honoraries which elect their members, 
at this time, are as follows: Sphinx,
Alpha Tau, Tau Sigma, Alpha Alpha 
Nu. Dragon,- Delta ¡Skull, Druid and 
Scarab.
The Sphinx, a girls’ honorary so­
ciety, chooses its twelve members 
from the Margaret Morrison and Arts, 
colleges for high sioholarship, activi­
ties in school and class personality.
Alpha Tau selects ten members 
from the Industries College, election 
being based on high scholastic stand­
ing, class and school activities and 
personality.
Tau Sigma Delta, ah Arts honorary, 
chooses1 ten men yearly for scholarship, 
activities and personality. The Sen­
iors are taken in in the fall; the Jun­
iors in the spring.
The Literary Fraternity Alpha Al­
pha Nu, chooses its members from all 
schools for their work on the various 
publications, such as the Tartan,'Pup­
pet and Thistle, six men being pledged.
The Scareb is the only professional 
fraternity electing its members at this 
time. Membership is confined to arch­
itects, fifteen of whom are chosen 
each year.
The Dragon, a Senior honorary, se­
lects its members from the three 
men’s Junior classes to be active dur­
ing their Senior year. These men are 
chosen for their interest and activities 
in and about school and for their per­
sonality.
Delta Skull is similar to Dragon in 
Its basis for fnembersliip. It takes its 
men from the Sophomore class for 
general class and school activities.
Last among these comes the Druids 
who select their members from the 
three Freshmen classes in the men’s 
schools for the work they have done 
in athletics, class ¡leadership or as 
assistant managers. It is a fitting re­
ward for Plebes who have shown the 
right spirit and love for their Alma 
Mater.
GIRLS’ MUSICAL CLUB 
CONCERT, FRIDAY MAY 5
Musical clubs’ C. W. concert
The Caruegie TechBand, the Men’s 
Glee Club, the Girls’ Glee Club, the 
Mandolin Club, the Stringers, all are 
combining for the big open air con­
cert, to be given Thursday night, May 
24, at 7:30 in the Open Air theater.
After attending the vaudeville show, 
the ball game and qualification exer­
cises, bring yourself and your date 
to the concert. A quiet hour of relax­
ation, enough time to rest for the 
strenuous three hours following.
Tech’s five musical organizations 
will produce a program so varied that 
the listriess and repetition which usu­
ally accompany most musical concerts 
will be avoided. Just a. little of 
everything. These five organizations 
are planning and preparing for this 
event and some of their season’s 
training will be heard in the few min­
utes alloted to them.
On Friday night, May 5, the third 
annual home concert of the Girls’ Mu­
sical Clubs of Carnegie Tech will be 
given in the Twentieth Century Club. 
The Glee Club will combine with the 
Stringers, already well known on the 
campus, and it. bids fair to be the 
mpst successful concert in the history 
of the clubs.
A well-balanced program has been 
arranged, including both classical and 
popular numbers and in addition, 
there will be readings by Miss Mar­
garet’ Harmon of the Drama Depart­
ment.
The club is under the direction of 
Mr. Harvey Gaul, who has led them 
in former years.
The concert begins at 8:15 ‘and 
after that dancing will continue until 
1:00 a. m., Giles’ orchestra furnish­
ing the music.
Admission for the concert is fifty 
cents and for the concert and dance 
one dollar and a half.
COUNCIL WILL CHOOSE
PRESIDENT FROM MEN
NOMINATED THURSDAY
ANNUALM.M.C.C. 
BANQUET TO BE 
HELD MAY 27
Mrs. Miller Will Speak at 
Annual Girls’ Banquet in 
M. M. Lunch Room. All 
Girls Interested.
ALL GIRLS ELIGIBLE
The girls never stay In the back­
ground very long. For some time 
.they have been tired of seeing in the 
Tartan notices for this and that ban­
quet that the men are holding, and of 
reading afterward that “a good time 
was had by all.” So now, with Cam­
pus Week to give them an opportu­
nity, they have gone off and arranged 
for a banquet of their own—good 
food, an excellent speaker, stunts, mu­
sic and all the trimmings. Just like 
the, men’s in fact, the only difference 
being that it will no doubt be much 
better than any the men ever had.
It really can’t helipi being an unus­
ually interesting and entertaining af­
fair for the combined efforts and tal­
ents of Margar&t Morrison, Arts and 
the Alumnae are hard at work perfect­
ing the plans and arranging a pro­
gram that will keep the pep at the 
high water mark from start to finish.
The speaker has already been se­
cured and when you know who it is 
you will see that the banquet is worth 
attending if only to hear what she has 
to say. It is Mrs. J. O. Miller, whose 
name is familiar enough to those who 
know much about the activities of 
women in Pennsylvania, political and 
otherwise. Mrs. Miller is a woman 
of remarkable accomplishments and 
of such wide and varied experience 
in public life that she cannot help but 
have interesting subject matter for 
her speech, and not only has she the 
reputation of knowing what to say, 
but of knowing how to say it.
That much about the speaker and 
that’s far from revealing to you all 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ALL FRATERNITIES ON THE
CAMPUS TO HOLD HOUSE 
DANCES WEDNESDAY, MAY 24
On May 24, 1922, the eve of the 
greatest social affair of the year, 
“Campus Week," all fraternities will 
have open house. ,, Get in lino for a 
good time and get the “Campus Woolc 
Spirit” and start the week ond off 
with a bang.
This may be termed an intor-frater- 
nity dance, in that the main [distinc­
tion is the members aro to circulate 
from ono house to another. There 
will be1 a steady round of pleasure. 
Many novel schemes of transportation 
are being planned by various groups.
RULES ANNOUNCED 
ON SWEEPSTAKES
Will Attempt to Make the 
Sweepstake a Bigger 
Event This Year
Daily Paper For Campus Week
To he Snappy and Live Sheet
The Campus Courier, the daily pa­
per which was started last year, will 
again be issued during the three days 
of Campus Week by the Alpha Alpha 
"Nu frs^/ .nity.
“Fr f . greater Campus Week, the 
Cami.js' Courier was born and to this 
end it I lall owe its existence.” It 
was su«V ^.ssful last year, and this 
year it U'11 be even better. It shall 
ry b((^ pictorially and through its 
$ nns the events of each day 
,jst future events.
news co 
.and for<
Up-to-the-minute information con­
cerning the program or any other 
feature, consult the Campus Courier. 
There will be a column of alumni 
personnels, which will make it easy for 
any old grad to find his old side kick.
While putting out the Campus Cour­
ier, the editors wil have in mind to 
write a complete history of Campus 
Week—the three issues will be the 
best souvenirs possible. Alumni and 
students are expected to assist and 
help. For further information see 
Fred L. Knowles.
MARDI GRAS IS 
BIG FEATURE OF 
CAMPUS WEEK
Was One of the Most Suc­
cessful Events of Last 
Year’s Campus Week Cele­
bration.
HELD FRI. EVENING
About That Little Gray Tag
One week : before Campus Week 
these little tags will be on sale and it 
'will be the hardest time you ever had 
in your life if you can get away 
without wearing one of them. You 
want to be with, the gang on the 
three best days in the college year, 
so just you save up the sum of j 
thirty-seven and one-half dally papers 
and gel. one of those little GRAY 
'tags and be a booster and a regular 
fellow.
When you buy one you aren’t 
donating and getting nothing In re­
turn for here is what goes with the 
LITTLE GRAY TAG: full admission 
to the Mardi Gras, the Vaudeville 
Show and the Inter-Fraternity Sweep- 
Stakes, fifty cents credit on the big 
dance on Thursday evening and twen­
ty-five cents credit on a ticket for 
Renny’ia Place on Saturday evening. 
Better grab yourself and get a GRAY'! 
TAG before the committee sends out 
its gleaners:
Yesterday the chairman of the 
Campus Week Sweepstakes Commit­
tee received a telegram from Barney 
Oldfield reading as follows: “is it
true that you’ve asked that big dub 
De Palma to ip'ace your first lap?" 
And I-Iedlund wired back—“It ain't.”
This will give you a'faint idea of 
how interested the outside world is 
in the Interfratemtt-y Sweepstakes 
wliioh start promptly! at ten o’clock, j 
Thursday morning, May 25. Taxes 
may come down and slcirts go high­
er, but rain or shine, famine or flood, 
the kick-off starts promptly at the 
specified1 time.
The rules are as follows:
1. Every fraternity represented at 
the interfraternity council is eligible 
to enter a car.
2. The carsi may be of any design, 
jbut must have four wheels.
3. A team shall consist of two
men—tlie driver and the pusher.
4. Only one man may push at any 
one time.
5. Each team must (change places
with a fresh team before entering
the home stretch. (This insures a 
break-neck finish.)
G. Each car must weigh at least 
sixty pounds.
7. A parade of all cars which will 
be headed by the band will start 
from in front of the Design'School
shortly before ten a. m.
(Continued on Page Four.)
A. I. E. E. WILL MEET WITH
PITTSBURGH SECTION MAY 9
Motion pictures illustrating a talk 
by L. K. Slllcox, engineer for the Chi­
cago, Milwaukee and /St, Paul Rail­
road, will be the feature of the May 
meeting of the Carnegie branch of the 
A. i. E. E. Ills subject will be “The 
Longest Trunk Line Electrification of 
a Steam Railroad In the World."
The meeting is- scheduled for May 
9, 3:30 p. m., in Room 104 Industries.
On the same day, at 8:00 p. in., In 
Room 209 Science, a joint meeting of 
the Carnegie Tech branch and the 
Pittsburgh section of the A. I. E. E. 
will be held with Dr. Saul Dushman 
of the General Electric Research Lab­
oratories as the main speaker. His 
subject is “Electricity and Matter.”
In connection with this meeting 
there will be a demonstration of the
G. E. vacuum- tubes.!
Ono of the big features of Campus 
Woolc Is the Mardi Gras, Last year It 
was the biggest and most ariit&anVrn 
ovont of Campus Week. To quote 
from the Campus Courier of last, 
year: “Mardi Gras has come and
gone fon this yoar, but it has secured 
for Itsolf a prominent and lasting 
place In the social calendar at Car­
negie.” This yoar It Is hoped to make 
It still bettor than last.
To do this every student must co­
operate In putting it across by follow­
ing Iho plans of the Mardi Clras com­
mittee.
At nine o’clock Friday evening, May 
2(5, the celebration will begin with a 
parade. Dancing will take place in 
the Union, Langley Lab. and in the 
Arts foyer. Hughes’ Collegiate Six 
orchestra will play in the Union, the 
Tech Novelty In the Lab., and Mag- 
glo’si in the l'oyer.
In addition to the dancing there 
will be a street carnival on Woodlawn 
avenue between the Central Building 
and the Langley Lab. The street will 
be decorated with various colored 
lights, making it resemble a typical 
street carnival as much as possible. 
Confetti, ticklers, horns ,and all kinds 
of noise disseminators are to be in 
vogue. Every one should be in cos­
tume and tagged. The spirit of the 
affair is “to have all the fun p'ossible 
but no rowdyism.”
ARTS THEATER TICKETS AT
DIRECTOR BOSSANGE’S OFFICE
Tickets for all plays in the Arts 
theater are now obtainable at the of­
fice of Director E. R. Bossange, and 
not in Dr. Baker's office.
C. W. Concessions Granted
Good news is in store for the Cam­
pus Week goers—the Campus Week 
committee in charge of Cy Unzlcker, 
has lined up some very attractive 
feature concessions for the three 
days. A monopoly on one article is 
being given to each “concessioner,” 
which makes it a very attractive feat­
ure for those inclined to soiling, A 
nominal fee for the privilege and also 
for the construction of the booth hi 
charged.
So far the following concessions 
havo been granted: Eskimo pie and
all kinds of ice cream, .Jim Anderson 
and Fisher; hot dogs, E. Good; candy, 
masks, horns, whistles, Y. W. C. A.; 
Alpha Kappa Psl will sell candy at 
the Schenley theater during the per­
formance of "Renny's Place.”
The committee still desires a few 
more good concessions and wants to 
hear immediately from any one desir­
ing same. Apply to C^ Unzicker, 
chairman Campus Week conjmittee, 
care Post Office, Carnegie Tech.
Last Tllursday. elections were held 
In the Arts, Science and Industries 
Colleges to elect their respective can­
didates for President of the Student 
Council. Bowers led in Arts, Johns­
ton in industries and Porterfield and 
Ames tied in Science. Uou a second 
election Ames was chosen by the 
Engineers.
At the second meeting of the Stu­
dent Council following the elections, 
the three candidates shall be consider 
ed, and the best .man will be chosen 
by the Council.
QUAKER BALL FRIDAY NIGHT
The Commercial Club will hold its 
third annual Quaker ball in the Union 
this Friday, May 5. Dancing from 
S:30 p. m. until 12:00 p. in. The mu­
sic will be furnished by Maggio’s or- 
chostra. The admission will be $1.50 
and tickets may be secured from Com­
mercial Club members.
HISTORY OF FIRST 
QUALIFICATION DAY
First Plebes Formally Accept­
ed into Carnegie Clan 
by T. E. Orr in 1915
Qualification Day, which is ono of 
the most, important days of Campus 
Week, originated in .1915. On March 
19 th of tha,t yoar the practice of re­
lieving tilio Plobos from all regula­
tions, and the burying of old man "P. 
R." first took place. At this time 
also the wedding of the Plebo Link 
to the Carnegie Chain began.
Those customs were instituted to 
baciome a tradition of Carnegie and 
year after year tlioy have boon sol­
emnized as each new classi has made 
Its alpipoaranco.
At. Iho Initial servlco, Mr. T, E, 
Orr, then president of the Sophomoro 
Class, led the ooromonlosi in the ac­
ceptance of the Freshmen, as loyal 
members of tho Carnegie Clan. It 
was a. dilsiual rainy day, but, never­
theless tho new iciuttitoms woro Insti­
tuted with a. great throng of loyal 
sons and daughlora cheering and wel­
coming tho now moniborsi of the 
Clan.
Before this time tho riebes wore 
released from: regulations at tho 
'Clam Day exorcises hold during 
Campus Week. This came at tho 
end of the second Homester. There 
woro no exorcises to denote that 
class feuds woro over, only, that of 
passing on tho qualicth from the Son- 
lors to the Juniors. Tlil.ii one cere­
mony un.ll.ed all classes together and 
occasioned lllio ond of all strife for 
(.ho year.
QUALIFICATION DAY
EXERCISES FOR PLEBE8
There l.in a day fast ’approaching 
which Is the most Important In the 
whole year for tho Plebes; the day 
when they atop Into tho placo of tho 
Sophomores and tako up their duties 
and responsibilities; It Is callod 
“Qualification Day.”
All year the Plobos havo boon under 
tho yoke of tho Sophomores, In train­
ing under various regulations that 
aro aimed to Instill In the Plebes the 
splr|t of loyalty to our school, respect 
to those pldoi’ In tho Horvlce of our 
Institution, and lovo for tho customs 
of our Alma MaLor. Sometimes those 
customs and regulations have seemed 
too much to bo borne and there have 
been uprisings and revolts, but they 
(Continnod on Page Four.)
ANNUAL TARTAN BANQUET 
TO BE HELD CAMPUS WEEK
CAMPUS WEEK 
PRACTICALLY A 
NEW TRADITION
Celebrated For the First Time 
in 1920. Inagurated as a 
Week For Visits of Carne­
gie Alumni.
IS HELD EACH SPRING
The celebration of Campus Week is 
a comparatively young tradition at 
Carnegie Tech. This year's celebra­
tion will be only the third of its kind 
to be held on the campus. Every 
spring a large number of alumni re­
turn to visit the school and it was 
suggested in 1920 by the Seniors, to 
set aside a few days in which to wel­
come the alumni and celebrate their 
return. The object of this celebration 
was to keep former students interest­
ed in the school and to provide enter­
tainment for them which would make 
tlìeir return to the campus more en­
thusiastic than otherwise.
Campus Week was inaugurated here 
In the spring of 1920. The faculty 
was iitotftfoued for a week’s holiday, 
but they granted only a day and a 
half. During this time the class day 
ceremonies wore held, which includ­
ed qualification day exorcises, inter- 
fraternity sweepstakes, tap day and 
various other athletic and class 
events, Tho celebration far surpass­
ed tho expectations of tho most en­
thusiastic 'workers, and showed that 
tho alumni woro also highly interest­
ed in its success and perpetuation.
Last yoar the celebration of Cam­
pus Week lasted throe days and wns 
conducted on a larger scale than be­
fore, having passed the experimental 
stage. Tho number of attending 
alumni was more than doubled, and 
the attractions woro blggor and bet­
tor than before. Tho whole student 
body took, part. In the fostlvltlos and 
showed moro spirit limn previously. 
Tho soeond annual Campus Week 
closed with a bettor understanding 
of its moaning to alumni and studonts 
(Cohtlnuod on l’ago Two.)
Will Hays to Speak 
At General Assembly
Former Postmaster-General 
to Open Campus Week
C'arnoglo Tooli In exceptionally for­
tunato In aoourlng litio proper start 
for Campus Week thin year. At don­
erai Assembly, Wednesday, May 24, 
Will llayea will deliver an address. 
Dr. Maker has Just. announced that 
M|r. llayea will bo with us on this 
date, and should prove of such In tor- 
out. at General Assembly that not a 
single student can ho absent. Will 
Hayes' reputation has preceded him. 
Wo all know him as tho former leader 
of tho Republican party, postmaster 
general of tho United States and at 
present director goneral of tho 
movies.
Mr. Hayos has not announced the 
subject of his address as yet, but OLt 
can ho suro that It will bo in keeping 
with tho occasion. Campus Weok has 
never had such a start before. Mr. 
Hayos certainly has command of the 
public wherever ho speaks. We can 
most Surely look forward to his being 
with, us May 2-1 as a rod letter day on 
Carneglo Tech's calendar.
Dance Thurs. Night May 25
Included In the activities during 
Campus Week is the annual banquet 
of the staff of the Carnegie Tartan. 
The University Club will be the scene 
of the gathering of the entire editorial 
and business staff of the Tartan as 
well as’ former editors and business 
managers of that publication. Includ­
ed in the list of guests will be the 
editors-in-chief and business mana­
gers of the Puppet, Thistle and Car­
negie Technical Journal.
Dr. T. S. Baker will be toastmaster 
and Colonel Moore, president of the 
Pittsburg Leader, has been secured as 
the main speaker. William Peet, 
sporting editor of the Pittsburg Dis­
patch, a popular character in Car­
negie sporting publicity, will mingle 
with the Plaid journalists.
The banquet will begin, promptly at 
0:30 p. m. on May 2-1 and will con­
clude In ample time for those contem­
plating attending the Inter-fraternity 
dances held that evening.
Get till» straight and believe it 
for it sure is the truth. On Thurs­
day evening of Campus Week the 
biggest dance that Carnegie ever saw 
will be staged right oh our own 
Campus. Here is the proof that it 
will be the biggest: Hughes Colleg­
iate Six will dominate the Union, 
the Tech Novelty Orchestra wil be 
king in the Langley Lab., and Mag­
gio’s Orchestra will reign in the Arts 
Foyer. All these will be on the same 
night, playing at the same time ,arid 
you will be able 1o be at;,, each one 
of the places by getting a tag' for 
$1.50 of which 50c will be deducted 
if you sihow your LITTLE GRAY 
TAG at the doors.
The affair will run from 9:00 to 
1:00, so there will be plenty of 
chance to go from one dance to the 
other and then decide; where you 
want to settle, before the referee’s 
whistle blows to. end the evening. 
This Is the chance of a life time to 
bo able to go to three dances for 
the cost, of one. Don’t mis» it.
Queen of Mardi Gras to be 
Elected by Vote of Students
In, lino with tho spirit of progres­
sion which 1« motivating the action» 
of tho. Campus Woolc committee a 
new feature Is to bo Introduced into 
the Mardi Gras this year. We’re go­
ing to havo a Queen—a regularly 
elected and duly constituted Queen.
The rules for her nomination and 
election will be found at the end of 
this article, and will be strictly ad­
hered to.
in choosing your this
honor consider. *)>' \ ,\things
well. The winf T"^graph-
Jiel j
od by tho three movie sveeklles and 
'her picture wil be broadcasted over 
j tho land, If she's a blonde, then the 
I world at large will take It for granted 
I that our tastos run that way. If she 
has bobbed hair, then It follows that 
Tech turns her thumbs down on the 
Lady Godiva typo.
Now there’s girls that shine in the 
class rooms and there’s those who 
have been granted medals for meri­
torious service on a park bench deck. 
Thpro /are flappers, gilpies, giglots 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1922
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carneglo Institute of 
;Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In the Postoillce of Pittsburgh an second-cluss mutter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ..........................................
Telephone, Hazel X11Ö-R
WILLIAM R. MILLS .......................................................
Telephone, Schenley 2053-R
VIC. H. STROMQUIST....................................................
Telephone, I-Illnnd 858
HELEN V. LEWIS ............................................................Telephone, Schenley 907Í)
Jj. J. WHITEHEAD ..........................................................
Telephone, Schenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND........................................................
Telephone, Schenley 1)070
H. F. SIMPSON..................................................................
Telephone, Schenley 1)070
ít. II. GUYTON.................................................................
D. A. DICKMAN...............................................................
.............. Editor-In-Chief
........ Business Manager
.......... Managing Editor
.......... Associate Editor
-------- Associato Editor
..................Nows Editor
..............Athletic Editor
Report Received From 
Cribbing Committee
Will Issue a Pamphlet at 
The Assemblies
.............. Photographer
........Exchange Editor
cl. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................. Advertising Manager
Telephone. Schenley 1)211 
fj. L, REILLY .......................................................................... Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Bogue, M. Schumacher, II. F. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
C. Mackenzie; H. H. Lofkowllz, W. J. Bolton, L. Hertzman, E. J. Maust, 
it. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. Downos, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. 
ßyerly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattson, R. J. Krodel, F. D. Rossini, V. L. 
ipencor, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. II. Wilson, II. J. McCormick, J. A. Borno, L. D. Allsliouse, E. C. Frazier.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhauser, J. C. 
¿lajor, F. II. Allison, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Scliucker 
'Mid T. J. Dempsey.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news item« must bo In the student 
post oilico before 4:30 Friday. •
Tartan Olllce—Room 5-A, Industries Building, Olllce hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
REALIZATION AND CRIBBING
Arc you getting the most out oJ! your life? Are you taking ad­
vantage oii every opportunity that will make you a stronger and 
better educated man'/ You owe something to the world, something 
to your School, somiething to your home, your mother and father.
To you the outside world is looking. Von will bo the men of to­
morrow. Men who are directing the affairs of the world today, men 
who are leaders in the industrial world, men upon, whom the responsi­
bilities of nations rest, these men must have successors. And the 
college student of today must be preparing himself for such jobs. 
Among the young men of today, the college student stands highest 
and to him the world is giving every opportunity to better himself 
that lie may be fitted for such work. Are you coming tip to what 
the world expects of you? Have you the appreciation of what you 
are doing and what it may mean?
¦While doing your daily work and during examinations does crib­
bing mar or better your intelligence, your general fund of informa­
tion, your character? Cribbing is not tolerated in the world today. 
The man who indulges in such a practice to further his own ends 
can not fool the world long and his success can. only be petty. Real 
men will, not allow such & man to stand long. Their ideals and per­
sonal sense of honor make him repulsive. Such a man is not fulfilling 
his place in the world, he is taking what he can and giving nothing, 
lie is failing in his one great duty. Can we, as individuals, allow 
ourselves to be failures because of that insidious practice which we 
students call cribbing?
fAs a group of men and women who represent Carnegie Tech, 
can we allow cribbing? .11! cribbing goes on and it receives the ap­
proval ol! the student body, let us bo consistent and truthful and 
have a special notice printed on our diplomas, “Cribbing is Allowed 
at Carnegie Tech.” What would the world think of Carnegie Toch 
and you as a graduate of Carnegie Tech? Training at Carnegie Tech 
would discount rather than bettor a man’s standing in the world. 
Such a man would have difficulty in finding a .job, because such men 
are pushed down rathor than helped up. Would parents advise 
their children to go to Carnegie Toch or would a man ehooso Carnegie 
Tech as his school? Then what would the name “Carnegie Tech” 
mean, wlial. Avould it stand for? Nothing that we could In' proud of 
andt some thing which should make us hang oui’ heads in shame. Car­
negie Tech has made a place for itself in I lie world, it has the repu­
tation of giving a most thorough training and the world has come 
to accept Cavnegio Tech. graduates as real men, men ol! character and 
trustworthinosH, who have had a thorough training in the fundamen­
tals of their profession. Lot us build to this reputation, not tear it 
down.
A I’.................II ..il. ... Ili . . . .1 . . ................
STUDENT NOTICES
This pamphlet is an attempt to 
bring to the attention of the student 
body the growth and consequent evils 
of the practice of “cribbing." It has 
been written by the students of this In­
stitution and, therefore, contains 
thoughts and feelings of your fellow 
students. The Ideas expressed herein 
are backed by the Student Council 
and by campus organizations of every 
sort, 'after you have finished reading 
this, do not throw it away, keep it 
and think over the message that It 
:arrles. It Is only by sober thinking 
and right thinking on the part of the 
individual student that this evil can 
be corrected.
The question may be asked "Why 
all this fiiSH about cribbing? There 
Isn't enough going on to justify this 
commotion." That question and the 
opinion expressed therein is a very 
natural one. Tho growth of this prac­
tice has been so Insidious that the 
students have not realized the pro­
portions that It has assumed. Stu­
dent sentiment has been brought 
around not only to tolerate but to be 
In »ympathy with it. While percent­
age of Htudents guilty of the practice 
la relatively small, yet that Small 
number will have a marked influence 
on the entire student body if the prac­
tice is not crushed. It Is time the 
»tudonts took a definite stand against 
tills evil.
If allowed to continue it will finally 
destroy that claim to high scholarship 
which we like to associate with the 
name “Carnegie.’' It will mean that 
a degree from the institution will be 
heavily discounted, if a student goes 
through college, passing his studies 
by cheating, he will know little or no 
more than when lie started, and when 
he comes to face the world, Ills de­
gree will avail him little if he cannot 
show the qualities for which his de­
gree is supposed to stand.
We have spoken of the effect that 
this practice will have on the reputa­
tion of the institution. What about 
the effects on the student himself? 
Professor Rowe, president of the 
American Society of Industrial Engin­
eers, ip addressing a group of Tech 
students recently, said: “The first
and most important function of any 
institution of learning Is to develop 
tho character or the Btudents, so as 
to make these students absolutely re­
liable and trustworthy; the second 
function is to give these students a 
thorough training in the courses se­
lected.”
A man's character Is best exempli­
fied in his personal, honesty; by which 
we mean noL only honesty in his deal­
ings with otherB, but also in his deal­
ings with himself. Tho woakenlng of 
this quality of personal honesty by 
tills practice while In college will 
iloave a man loss able to resist the 
temptations tlmt besot, a man In busi­
ness life. "Cribbing” Is a poor train­
ing for good citizenship. Tt destroys 
those qualities of Initiative mid solf- 
rollanco that, aro so ossontlal to any 
permanent succoss. A man who 
31’lbs will assert that ho would not 
steal n.ny material tiling, but Ills re­
sistance to tho temptation to do so Is 
undoubtly weakened by his indulging 
in "cribbing.”
Where cun tho blaino bo placed for 
this condition? While the groatost 
blame Is to bo placed on tlioso who do 
tho actual cheating, yol. somo can be 
on tho other students who do 
offence as sorlously as 
taken, and also upon tho
CITMAS CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
The Citmas Club dance will be held 
iu tho Union, Saturday evening, May 
13. The Pumas Club of Pitt has been 
extended an invitation.
A very important business meeting
111 be held this Friday afternoon, 
May 5, at 4:30, In the Y. M. C. A. club 
room. All members are expected to 
be present.
WINNERS IN POVERTY DAY CONTEST
JUNIORS TO HOLD DANCE
The Juniors of Carnegie Tech will 
hold another tea dance on Tuesday, 
May 5), in tho Union. Be a loyal stu­
dent and back your class. Come, get 
acquainted for tho Senior ball next 
year. Let’s have a crowded Union. 
This means you, Juniors.
SCIENCE PLEBES TO
HOLD TEA DANCE
The Science Freshmen will hold a 
tea dance in tho Union tomorrow 
from 4:30 to 6:00. Sophomores will 
be admitted free with registration 
card. The admission for others will 
be twenty-five cents.
<< omAwnn. .XO&ILi NN i.iun.gN llUISli 0011.10 lip lid, 1110
ospOe.tiilioiiN III’ mol hot* »nil dud. Wo iiiiinI. work, study, develop our 
NolvcH mid 1m tho sueeoss Unit will mnko mother anti dud proud ol’ 
their son. AW OWO it to them, more limn we owe it to ourselves or 
our sellout Mother mid dud would strongly condom» orilibing; il; 
would mnko them Inuig their hends lo know tlmt we resoi-toil to erili- 
liing to get l)y. ¡For their suite, let; us quit cribbing mid help the 
other fellow, who luis 11 mother and dnd just like our own, to stop 
cribbing.
^ As students ol’ CJurnegic Tech let. us .seriously think this over. 
Those who nre strong, let them help those who are w6a.lt. Cribbing 
is mi evil that must be eliminated. Knowing it. to be nn evil, let us 
quit cribbing ourselves and stop the other fellow. Let us iu a whole­
hearted manner eliminate this evil which is a menace to the world 
to our school and to ourselves.
Calendar of Student Events
THURSDAY, MAT 4
Baseball—Carnegie vs. Buclmell ............................................. Here
Drama—“King Jolm” ................................................s :15,’Arts'Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 5
Dance—Night' School Dance........................8:30,, Langley Laboratory
Concert and Dance—Women’s Glee Club......8:15, 20thCenturv Club
1 emus—Carnegie vs. AV. & J................................... Here
Drama—-‘‘King John”....................................................8:15, Aris'Theater
Dance—Quaker Ball...................................................8.30 Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, MAY (i
Tennis—Carnegie vs. A\rest Arirginia...................................................Horc
Track—Inter-Scholastic Meet ...................................................... Here
Smoker A. M. C. A.................................................8:15, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, MAY 7
Concert Woodwind Ensemble I’rognim............... 8:15 Arts Theater
TUESDAY, MAY !1
1 arty Junior Class..................................................4:30, Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, MAA- U
Ban,plot 0. M. 10. S. Banquet...............................Seventh Avenue Hotel
Jiasoball—Carnegie vs. drove City......... Um>
Mil DA Y, M A Y I
’William Penn Hotel
.8:80, Carnegie Union
3333333333331............... Hero
..............*..............There
SATURDAY, MAY h ’
Dance—Soph Hop....
Dance—Citmas Club.
Basoball—Carnegio vs. Juniata .......................
Track—Carnegie vs. Ohio State.......„.......
SUNDAY, MAY i t 
Concert—Symphony Concert........................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
....................There
. TUESDAY, MAY .16
icnnis—Carnegie vs. University oí Michigan..
CAMPUS WEEK PRACTICALLY
A NEW TRADITION
(Continued From Page One.l 
and was voted a success by everyone.
This year the celebration of Cam­
pus Week will be 'similar to the pre­
vious celebrations and will have many 
added attractions. The growth v f the 
\
tradition of Campus Week is romnrk- 
alile and every one will agree that it 
is a very fitting way to advertise Car­
negie Tech and to make enthusiastic 
alumnv return in larger numbers 
evejf ’itness the celebration
plaij carried out by
the/
faculty, whose attitude is wrong in 
many cases. Some will say that the 
attitude of the instructors in the ex­
amination room acts as a challenge 
to students to cheat whenever it is 
possible. Other instructors are entire­
ly too lax, not calling the students 
for Infractions of the rules.* Never­
theless, the existence of a temptation 
is not sufficient excuse for such an 
act.
What is itihe remtdy for this condi­
tion? How can this practice be re­
duced or eliminated entirely? And 
the answer is, that any correction 
must conie from the students them­
selves. Student honor is a matter of 
campus opinion. Student sentiment 
must feel and admit the undesirability 
of "cribbing” and then array itself 
against the few individuals who dis­
sent and made "cribbing” impossible 
for them. To inspire the growth of 
a healthy sentiment against "crib­
bing” is our purpose. Nothing can be 
forced, but by a closer agreement 
among the students and a better un­
derstanding between them and their 
instructors, this evil can be gotten 
rid of. Eliminate "cribbing,” and not 
only our Alma’ Mater and ourselves 
will be benefitted, but the outside 
world will be given far better mater­
ial out of which to mould our Ameri­
can citizenship.
To show the extent to which this 
Practice of “cribbing” has come up for 
discussion among student organiza­
tions, and to ‘show the opinion of 
these groups, the following resolution 
has been passed by the Student Coun­
cil and the other campus organiza- 
tinos whose names appear below.
WHEREAS, it is recognized that 
the development ¦ of character and 
trustworthiness is the most import­
ant function of higher education, and 
WHEREAS, tills development is be­
ing hindered by tho growth of the 
practice of “cribbing” among the stu­
dents of this Institution.
BE IT RESOLVED, that tho prac­
tice of unlawful co-operation, or 
“cribbing” on clasB work, and further, 
that wo, as students of tills institution, 
exort all the inlluence in our power to 
root out this ovil.
Board of Student Activities.
Student Council.
Iiilor-Fratornlty Council Tau Beta Pi,
Alpha Tau.
(Signatures coming from approxi­
mately thirty other .student organ!/,a- 
. tions.)
The second annual four-school Pov­
erty Day celebrations were observed 
the Carnegie Tech caiftpus, be­
tween 10:30 and 12:30 last Wednes­
day morning.
The Poverty Day celebration opened 
in the various schools, when one by 
one each Plebe, attired in his Poverty 
stricken costume, walked solemnly 
before the audience of upperclassmen, 
and had his or her costume judged as 
to originality and cleverness in indi­
cating poverty. There were so many 
new and clever costumes that it was 
only with difficulty that the final elim­
inations were made, so that the re­
quired number of exempt Prebes 
could be chosen.
Immediately following the assem­
blies the Plebes and upperclassmen 
assembled in front of the ^Administra- 
tion building, and President Hamer- 
.»clilag was formally welcomed home 
by the student body from his Medi­
terranean tour. President Hamer- 
erschlag immediately caught the spirit 
of the morning and turning his coat 
inside out, lie replied to F. I. Smith’s 
speech of welcome’.
Following his speech, Dr. Hamer- 
sclilag and Mrs. Hamersclilag took an 
active part in the Poverty Day cele­
brations. They wei;e drawn in the
The Oakland j 
Community House, j
3904 Forbes street, j_
is maintained by .. 
educational funds = 
of the Methodist = 
Episcopal Church = 
for the purpose of == 
promoting Chris- == 
tian fellowship || 
among students of = 
every creed. It is = 
open from 9:00 A. = 
M. to 11:00 P. M. H 
every day. =§
“WALK IN”
“Ol’ One Hoss Shay” by a number of 
Plebes at the head of the parade. The 
course of the parade was from the 
front of the Administration building 
to the Margaret Morrison building and 
back to the Administration building.
The Plebes who were chosen as 
prize winners, and who will be ex­
empt from regulations for the remain­
der. of the year are:
Margaret Morrison College—Cath­
erine Trnasky, Helen. Daugherty, Ber­
nice Zollers, Ester Johnson, Bernice 
Rentz and Mary Stemphle.
College of Fine Arts—Betty Lind­
say, Ellen Eyman, Betty Constantine, 
Mary Brown, H. H. Thayer, R. H. 
McCullum, C. M. Colvin and A. Mervis.
College of the Industries—R. W. 
Sampson, R. M. White, T. G. Kelley, 
W. J. Dempsey, J. V. Cuthbert, S. L. 
Wessel, J. B. Buibb, A. L. Widom, W. 
D. Smith and G G. Wayne.
College of Engineering—H. F. Hay- 
tfen, J H. Joynt, R. H. Rossome, E. 
'H. Lawrence, Nicholas Laross, Otto
W. Will, E. C. Frazier, Milo Matter. 
L. F. Vogt, R. D. Gibson and John D. 
Jerome.
As a means of recognition of the 
good services rendered by the Plebe 
orchestra at the Science assemblies 
during the year it was voted that they 
should be exempt from regulations 
for the remainder of the year. They 
are: Clarence M. Hepp, Peter V.
Pebraitis and Charles K. Rosenberger.
The general regulations committee, 
to whom the credit for the success of 
Poverty Day is largely due is C. F. ' 
Bowers, (chairman) Carl Johnson, 
Miss Ray Fine and .G. W. First.
MELLON HALL DANCE
The girls of Mellon. Hall gave a 
very delightful house dance on Friday 
evening. The house was decorated in 
spring flowers and Maggio’s orchestra 
furnished the music. Everyone voted
i
:r as an agent 
to say to seniors who are about to 
graduate from college:
“ If you love work and desire to pursue an honorable, 
useful and lucrative mission in life this is the business 
for you to take up. Life insurance salesmanship offers 
a fine field for the energies of the splendid young men 
in our colleges.
“That this is true is demonstrated by those college men 
who have taken up life insurance for they have shown 
that the college man is fit for this kind of a job and 
that the job also is fit for the college man.
“The work of the life insurance salesman is distinguished 
by independence and opportunity for directing his own.
It gives all possible opportunity for individual initiative 
and a chance to make an ample income at an age when 
most fellows are struggling on a wage pittance.”
That is the story of one who began at the bottom, and 
reached the top without the help of a college educa­
tion. The advantages are with you who graduate 
from college. Before deciding your career make in­
quiries of the “Agency Department.”
or Boston. Massachusetts 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
WELCOME TO OUR PRESIDENTT
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved it—and now give the verdict 
to you — Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced — none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes—
„„»„¦¦«i——“in None has the delicious
FLAVOR of thefinestTurkish— 
None gives the ENJOY­
MENT of the finest Turkish— 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish— 
None but the highest grade 
nd personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BEST—to reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
— you have but to smoke 
MURAD—
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself—! ”
Dr. Arthur A. Hamorschlng, Presi­
dent ol’ Carnegie Toch, returned to 
tho campus April 2(5, from a throe 
months' trip abroad. Classos wore 
dismissed at' ton-thirty and practically 
all tho students turned out to welcome 
tho president, and his Avlfo.
F. I. Smith made the following 
speech in front of tho Central Build­
ing, welcoming Dr. Hamersclilag, on 
behalf of tho student body:
"President and Mrs. Hamersclilag, 
wo welcome you home.
“You liavo been far from those 
pleasant surroundings, from these 
buildings and tlioso associations that 
are dear to our hearts. You have 
traveled many lands, seen many 
sights, heard many tongues, felt the 
spirit of strange surroundings, and 
now you are home .
"We welcome you.
“We hope that you have thoroughly 
enjoyed jour trip and that you are
refreshed and encouraged to assume 
once more your many duties and 
heavy responsibilities. Realizing your 
part in creating our school, in guid­
ing it through tho early chapters of 
its development, and bringing It to its 
present standing—and It knows no 
poors—wo want you to know our 
heartfelt appreciation of all that you 
lmvo dono in tho past and our loyal 
co-oporatton in tho problems of the 
prosont and tho future.
"Home is where tho lioart is*—wo 
welcome you home.”
Dr. Hamersclilag then spoke of his 
trip and thanked the students for 
their welcome.
In his talk, President I-Inmerschlng 
emphasized the manner in which Car­
negie graduates are rapidly rising to 
the top in all their professions.
After his 
Hamersclilag 
campus in a 
erty-stricken’
alle, President and Mrs. 
were paraded about the 
cart drawn by six “pov- 
Plebes.
5555555555555555555555T5Z

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Plaid Racqueteers Tie 
Lehigh in Opener
Breaks Even in Both Singles 
and Doubles
The Plaid Tennis Varsity opened 
up the tennis season with a well 
earned tie against undefeated Lehigh. 
In the first matcli Captain Neville of 
Carnegie played A. M. Beck of Le­
high. Beck is a powerful man, and 
drives the ball with terrific force, 
and his ability to smash, lobs, and 
liis (Clever net work, enabled him to 
defeat Neville 6-3, 6-2.
Swrartz played Koegle, who won 
the first set, 6-1. In the second, 
Swartz replaced his driving wth his 
dependable ichop stroke. This stroke 
(baffled Koegle and Swartz took the 
next two sets, 8-6, 6-4, which evened 
up the match played thus far.
Keil played Beale, but eemed to be 
off form, lor he lost to the hard 
driving though somewhat erratic Beale. 
Cqpely easily won his match from 
Laughton, and showed wonderful im­
provement over last year.
In doubles, Neville and Copelywere 
paired against! Beck and Koegle. 
While losing the first set 6-4, Car­
negie forced Lehigh' 11-9 in the sec­
ond.
Keil and Swartz defeated Beale 
and Laughton in the second doubles 
match in a hard}-fought sets, 4-6, 6-4, 
6-4. By winning this contest the 
Plaid tied Lehigh.
Beck (Lehigh) defeated Neville 
(Carnegie Tech), 6-3, 6-2.
Swartz (Carnegie Tech) defeated 
Koegle (Lehigh), 1-6, 8-6, 6-4.
Beale (Lehigh) defeated1 Heii (Car­
negie Tech), 9-7, 6-4.
Copley (Carnegie Tech) defeated 
Laughton (Lehigh), 6-2, 6-0.
Doubles:
Beck and Koegle (Lehigh) defeated 
Neville and Copley (Carngie Tech), 
6-4, 11-9.
I-Ieil and Swartz (Carnegie Tech) 
defeated Beale and Laughton (Le­
high), 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.
PLAID VICTOR AT PENN; 
CARNEGIE WINS ITS RELAY
Carnegie Tech’s mile relay team 
came through to a victory at the 
Penn Relays last Saturday winning 
the one mile relay championship for 
Technical ^colleges, The Plaid run­
ners led ,the field all the way except 
for the first quarter. Lockwood start­
ed for Tech and ran third until the 
final stretch wnen he came up on 
even terms with the Northeastern 
man. Gare ran a pretty race gain­
ing a yard while Brumbaugh had a 
lead of ten yards when he turned 
the baton over to Szold, the Tartan 
anchor man. Szold w'as hard pressed 
/by the Renssellaer and Northeastern 
anchor men but broke the tape a 
winner with the Renssellaer man six 
yards behind. Renssellaer Poytecli- 
nic Institute was second while North­
eastern College of Boston took third 
place. The time was 3:32.
Kelley, Carnegie Tech’s crack sprin­
ter, won his heat in the 100 yard 
dash beating Ettinger of Rutgers by 
a yard, the time for this heat was 
10 1-5 seconds. In the finals Kelley 
was among the three leaders for 60 
yards but dropped behind and did 
not place.
In the relay Brooklyn Poly and 
Stevens Institute brought up in the 
rear while Georgia Tech and Virginia 
Poly were entered but did not start. 
The Tartan victory puts, Carnegie 
Tech on top among the technical 
schools as far as track is concerned.
INTER-FRATERNITY
BASKETBALL MEETING
Thirteen teams were represented 
at the final meeting of the Inter-Fra­
ternity Dormitory Basket Ball League 
in the “Y” Club Room last Thursday 
afternoon. A number of important 
questions were taken up among the 
most important being that of the eli­
gibility of players. A committee was 
appointed to formulate a definite set 
of eligibility rules- byi the first meet­
ing of next year.
The election of officers for next 
year also took placie. The results 
were as follows: H. H. Wilson, Pres­
ident R. U. Porter, SeCretary-Treas- 
urer.
Golf and 
Sport Oxfords
Approved styles by experi­
enced golfers and every golf 
er knows that his shoes are 
a might important part of his 
equipment.
Style No. 6040 — Smoked 
Horse, Tan Trimmed, Fi­
bre Soles. Rubber Heels.
Style No. 6041—Tan Calf.f 
Mahogany Saddle, Duflex*
Soles, Rubber Heels..........I
We’ve Fitted Feet For Fifty Years”
P. LU DE BUIE ML & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN EAST LIBERTY
* JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET .j!
X Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year, v
BELL PHONE ?,
y Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
$ A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL £
SKIBO INN |
Remodeled and $ 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, $
WHOLESOME X
BAAS
Served at best prices 1F 
CIGARS CANDY 1
MISS O’LEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladies' and Men’s Clothes. 
Call Schenley 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Three major factors should j 
be considered in the selec­
tion of your life work
1. Service—contributing to the fund of human happiness. Sooner or *>
later, in all lives, comes the inevitable conclusion that work, lack- *:* 
ing the element of altruism, leaves a void, which no measure of 
material success can fill. *?*
X2. Unlimited opportunity for exercise of ability. No career may
hope for its fullest development when its growth is cii’cumscribed ?> 
by obstacles over which personal ability has no control. We *:* 
refer to salaried positions, most of which range within well de- A 
fined limits, both as regards the display of ability and remunera- ?> 
tion. X.1.
3. Unlimited opportunity to earn. This is obvious and needs no am-
plification. *:*
XThe Institution of Life Insurance meets these 
three requirements.
Its sale is attracting the best brains of the country. *:*
The Edward A. Woods Company, the largest Life Insurance X 
Agency in the world, at your request will submit information which y 
may be helpful in your decision about a career. X
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
BENCHWARMER SAYS:
Elmer Weiss pitched wonderful ball at St. Vincent’s but had to leavjQ 
the game at the end of the sixth, having sprained his ankle sliding into 
first. Joe Mills, who was cavorting in center, was called to the mound, and 
held St. Vincent’s to one scratch hit in three innings.
Ray Doherty and Harry Durkin played hard consistent games throughout 
the trip. On more than one occasion Little Joe Doherty brought tho stands 
to their feet by his fielding in running back of third and knocking down Hies.
The team received wonderful treatment throughout the whole trip. At 
Swartlimore, Delaware and Navy the boys were cheered as they left the 
dining hall. The team responded with several Tech yells.
We won two and lost two which isn’t bad considering that we were 
playing in foreign territory. The team traveled approximately 700 miles 
and were all pretty tired when they got back to Pittsburgh.
In Baltimore the night before the Navy game, the bo.Vs all rubbed their 
bats on a Negro boy’s head, but didn’t do any good. After the game they 
looked for the “Allegator bait,” but couldn’t find him.
Two errors and two liomeruns were responsible for Swartlimore winning 
the opening game. Weiss, who relieved Cappe, pitched nice ball, but the 
boys couldn’t overcome the lead.
“Chipper” Smith pitched nice ball against the Navy, but the boys be­
hind him had several bad errors and failed to come through in the pinches.
Between “Red” Godden’s mouth-organ, Joe Mills’ horse-neighing, and 
Ttibe” Hedlund’s jews harp, the gang had plenty of “music” on the trip.
“Spivis Blue-Jay” Cappe knocked out a home run at St. Vincent’s, but 
was called out for failing to touch second.
“Skinny” McCaw pitched a fine game at Delaware although he was 
suffering with a touch of grippe at the time.
¦“Kirk” kept the boys fighting all the time, and was a big factor in help- 
ing-carry away the two victories.
Due to catching trains and also in order to eat breakfast the team was 
up every morning at 6:15.
Jimmy Robertson played bang-up ball in the outfield, 
’em off on the bases.
He sure tears
The hitting of Cappe, Irwin and Godden featured the trip.
RENNY’S PLACE IS TO
CLOSE CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.-) 
remarkable talent in playwriting and 
many of whose plays have been pre­
sented with success in the Arts Thea­
ter
Briefly, the plot of “Renny’s Place" 
is this: “Jazz is what makes the
world go ’round, and everybody’s got 
to come around to it some time, or an­
other; if you don’t dike the word jazz, 
call it something else . . . pep . . 
zip . . . the Grand Wow! It all 
means the same in the language!” 
This is the creed of Renny Jones, the 
central figure of the play, and he car­
ried this slogan into his now restau­
rant, bought with the proceeds from 
a llivver which he found stalled in the 
creek. Because he stayed up until al­
ter ton and liked syncopated music, 
Chester folks called him the jazz 
hound. Into the life of Renny comes 
a moving picture company headed by 
Billy Bradshaw, grafter de luxe, and 
starring the lovllest girl Renny had 
ever seen or dreamed of. The sec- 
6nd act of the play, laid in the picture 
studio, where the people of the town 
come to see a movie being taken, is 
full of humor and laughable situa­
tions. A fire breaks out in Renny’s 
cherished restaurant and . . . well, 
come to the Schenley May 27 and see 
for yourself.
No jazzier person could fill the role 
of Renny.Jones than Ross Hertz, 
known all over the Campus for his 
pep and good nature. He will havo 
a chance in this show to make his 
own personality a living thing. Those 
who remember Ship Ahoy of last 
year, wilL recall Marguerite (“Peg”)
Y. M. C. A. HIKE TO BE
HELD NEXT SATURDAY
Mr. Davis, local Y. M. C. A. secre­
tary, has planned a big hike for tho 
Tech boys. Professor Ambrose and 
Professor Donnell are also assisting 
in this big hilco. ’
QUEEN OF MARDI
GRAS TO BE ELECTED BY
VOTE OF STUDENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
and what nots, but you’ll find them all 
in the Senior class. Whoever she is 
and whatever type she may happen 
to he we want her for our Queen If 
she is the most popular girl at Toch.
Being itho Queen she will have many 
privileges. She will bo crowned, and 
if she chooses she may have a consort 
who shall also be crownod. I-Ior cos­
tume will bo her own Idea of what a 
Queen should wear. It is intondod to 
make the coronation an impressive 
ceremony. This is one of tho things 
which will bo filmed by tho movies, 
and wo want it to bo something Toch 
will bo proud of.
She may ride, walk or bo carried— 
we play no favoritos. If sho wants 
slaves-tho Design School will furnish 
them. If she pines for attendants, 
will call on tho engineers to furnish 
their finest. In short, sho may havo 
anything that her heart craves, 
i FamtUaiizo yoursolves with tho fol­
lowing rules and then malco your 
choico. Wo want Toch’s most popu­
lar and representative girl to win tills 
honor.
Any further information regarding 
this contest may ho obtained from 
.Frederick L. Knowles or Vic. Slroin- 
quist.
General Rules.
1. Any girl from tho Senior class 
Harmon and her splendid comedy as0[ the Margaret Morrison or Arts
School shall be oliglble for this honor.the Russian countess.
In “Renny’s Place,” she is seen 
as a hard-boiled waitress, re­
cruited from the shoe factory to toss 
ham an’ over the counter. Eddie Reid, 
well known for his hick 'characteriza­
tions, plays the part of Jake, the jit­
ney driver, who is always complaining
2. Any student may make a nom­
ination, and may nominate whom ho, 
or she chooses.
3. The nominations shall be mado 
on blanks provided in this and fol­
lowing issues of the Carnegio Tartan.
4. Every nomination blank receiv-
that his gasoline is running out too i ed shall also be considered as one
fast, not knowing he has a hole in the 
tank. The others who make up the 
cast are well known satellites of the 
Drama Department.
The play is under the direction of 
Chester Wallace, whose ability to do 
plays of this type is unquestionable. 
The company is being managed by 
Arthur Lubin. A great deal of the 
work in advertising and general man­
aging of the production is being done 
by Jack Franklin, who also lias charge 
of the ticket, sales.
"Renny’s Place” plays at the Schen­
ley Theater one night only . . .Sat- 
urdajr, May 27. Tickets will be sold 
only on the Campus. So get your 
tickets early and avoid the rush.
COMMERCIAL CONVENTION
IS HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL
The Edward A. Woods Co.
General Agents 
The Equitable Life Assurance Society 
of the United States
X * *
1
Frick Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Kim
•Issel,
(Continued From Page One.) 
Director of Personnel and Traning, 
Standard Oil Company of New York. 
Mr. Dooley spoke at the second ses­
sion of the convention, May 1. Mr. 
F. B. Jewett, vice president of the 
Western Electric Company, was chair­
man of this season. W. E. Mott, Di­
rector of College Engineering, Car­
negie Tech, was the other speaker. 
The major subject of discussion at 
this session was “Co-ordination of 
College Training With the Industrial 
Demand.”
Another prominent speaker at tho 
convention was Samuel Insull, presi­
dent of the Commonwealth Edison 
Company, Chicago. Mr. Insull is 
one of tlio country’s foremost electri­
cal engineers. He served as chair­
man of the morning session on May 
2, devoted to the discussion of “Civic 
and Social Training of the Engineer 
and Business Man.” Dr. Charles R. 
Mann, chairman of operations and 
^raining division, general staff of the 
War Department, was also a speaker 
3t the morning session.
A number of special sessions were 
held, the results of which will be pub­
lished in the next issue of the Car- 
negi^s, Tartan.
vote for the candidate whose name is 
mentioned on blank.
5. The nomination blanks or bal­
lots may be deposited In ballot boxes 
which will be placed in each of the 
four schools.
6. Contest closes at 7 p. m., May 
24.
The girl who receives the highest 
number of votes up to this time shall 
be adjudged the winner, and shall be 
crowned Queen of the Mardi Gras.
Use following ballot:
Carnegie Breaks Even 
On First Trip Away
Baseball Team Wins Two 
and Loses Same Number
The Carnegio Toch nine started its 
eastern invasion by dropping a hard 
foughti game to Swartlimore Collogo 
by the score of 6-2.
Ou Thursday afternoon at Newark, 
Delaware, the Tartan ball club took 
over the fast University of Delaware 
team by a 6 to 1 score. Tho Carjio- 
gie team scored three runs in the 
first inning, and were never headed.
In the third game of the Eastern 
trip, the Tartans lost to the Naval 
Academy in a hard fought game, by 
the score of 8-3.
It was a much closer game than t he 
score would indicate, due to a clover 
pitching duel between Smith and 
Sparling.
The Plaid nine closed their inva­
sion of the East with a clean-cut vie-, 
tory over the diamond team of St. 
Vincents College by a 4-1 score.
Carnegie Branch at Y.M.'C.A. 
Will Hold a Stag Smoker
On Saturday the C. I. T. Athletic 
Association will hold an intorscholns- 
tic track met for the high schools of 
this vicinity. In order to relieve the 
association of the responsibility of 
entertaining tho contestants, tho 
evening after the meet, the Y. M. C. 
A. lias arranged to hold its spring 
entertainment for Carnegie men— 
whether members or non-members of 
the Y. M. O. A. The Union is tho 
place, and these youthful athletos will 
be special guests.
The program for the evening will 
include speeches by Frank Iiaaren, 
“Buddy” Overend and Bob Waddell; 
boxing and wrestling bouts; black­
face songs by “Obio” Newman, movies 
and comedy stunts. Tho usual eats 
and muBic will be on hand, everything 
being froo to tlioso who attend.
Tho Y. M. C. A. has sent out print­
ed ballots to bo used in tho oloctlon 
of tho student cabinet officers for tho 
coming year ,and desires that tlioso 
ho returned on Saturday night or 
sooner, in order that tho results of 
the oloctlon can ho announcod boforo 
tho smolcor is over.
Tho student, cablnot, togothor with 
tho athlotic association, is putting 
forth ovory effort to malco noxt Satur­
day a big day for tho school, and all 
Toch moil, whothor Y. M. C. A. moni- 
hers or not, cannot afford to miss this 
stag which promises to ho ono of tho 
biggest ovonts of tho school yoar.
All Carnegie Teams to 
Be Active Campus Week
On the opening day of Campus 
Week tho Plaid nine moots Hugo 
Bozdok’s Penn State baseballors in 
the opening athletic event at Forbes 
Field. The Nittany Lions have a 
good team this yoar and are sure to 
give the Tartans a hard battle.
Forbes Field will give plenty of seat­
ing capacity to accommodate tho 
crowd. On Friday morning Botlmny 
will be here for a baseball game on 
tho campus diamond. In tho after­
noon Carnoglo moots a new tennis 
rival from the east in Buclcnell. Not 
much is known of their ability but 
they will no doubt, give tho Plaid net* 
men a stiff fight.
Tho morning of tho final day, Sat­
urday, will see the Varsity tennis 
team stacking up against tho Alumni 
in a series of matches. Last yoar 
the matches resulted in a 3-3 tie. 
With Bob Schmortz added to tho 
Alumni team besides Beatty, Stoclc- 
slager, “Toots” Davis and other stars 
of by-gone days, the Varsity will havo 
no easy time of it. In fact they will 
do well to make it a tie this year. Tho 
final sport event is scheduled for 
Saturday afternoon when tho West 
Virginia cinder men will engage 
Coach Iddings' squad in a dual moot 
at Schenley Oval. This is the only 
track event of Campus Week and
Baseball, Tennis and Track 
Athletic Events of Week
For Carnegio Tech, the first week 
of May is full of athletic events. 
Thursday tho baseball team plays 
BuckueU on the home lot. Buclcnell 
always has a groat baseball team and 
Thursday’s game will bo one of tho 
best of the seacon.
The tennis team plays two matches. 
W. & J. comes to town Friday and 
Saturday, Wost Virginia will be mot 
on the Tartan courts. The Plaid havo 
been able to defeat W. & J. the last 
few years in this branch of sport and 
hope to repeat again this year. West 
Virginia took two of tlio six sots 
played against Lehigh last week, 
which when compared to the 3-3 score 
of the Lehigh-iCarnegle contest indi­
cates a great battle on tlio Tartan 
courts 'Saturday.
In addition to the tennis match, the 
track men go in action in a dual meet 
with Marietta. At the same time the 
Annual Interscholastic Track meet in 
which tho various high schools of tho 
section complete will be held. Satur­
day night a great smoker will bo held 
in tho Union to entertain visitors 
and to interest them in school.
should draw a large crowd. The 
Plaid track squad is showing up 
strong this year and will meet a 
worthy oppouent in West Vjrgiuin.
Inter-Scholastic Track 
Meet Saturday Afternoon
On Saturday aftpnioon Carnoglo 
Tech will hold Its annual lnter-Schol- 
uslic Track Moot at tho Schonloy 
Oval. Tho moot ill la yoar provisos 
to bo ¡bigger than dvoT boforo. Lant 
year's .mark In tho number ol' teams 
entered has already liooii reached and 
inoro are coming In ovory day. 
Among tlio largor outaldo &inCttn& en­
tered are: Scott High of Toledo, 
West. Migli of Akron, Johnstown High, 
two high schools from Wheeling a id 
Lisbon (Ohio) High School. At tlio 
same timo the Plaid cinder men will 
moot the M'arlotta track squad In a 
dual meet.
Evoryono should ho on hand to see 
(these dchoilasttci events and to wel­
come those young athletes to our 
campus. They may bo Interested In 
our Institution and should bo encour­
aged In their ambitions. The smoker 
on Saturday] ovonIng''should bo made 
up of a good majority of Carnegie 
student's to help entertain tho visi­
tors and dhow them the old Carnoglo 
Tech spirit.
VACATION OPPORTUNITY 
We want a few live men over 24 
for Summer Work, presenting to 
Teachers and School Boards new Edu­
cational Publication, approved by 
Pennsylvania State Department of 
Education. Accepted applicants train­
ed and financed. See
QUARRIE & COMPANY 
Lyceum Building Pittsburgh
QUEEN OF TECH’S MARDI GRAS
NOMINATION AND BALLOT COUPON
When this coupon is properly filled out and placed in a ballot box, it 
shall count as one vote for Miss....................................................................
Oakland Community House
TAKE VOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Cliess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
_ Club, frat or committee meetings.
“Just visit.” 
i SUNDAYS
g Bible Study Classes___’.......................10:00 A. Mi.
p! Quiet.................................... Sunday afternoon
gj Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
1 young people’s meeting...........5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND B0QUET STREETS
ARE YOU READY FOR WARMER WEATHER?
WE ARE EXCLUSIVE OAKLAND DEALERS FOR
Kenosha-K^osed-Krotcli Union Suits
All Styles Spring and Summer Weights In stock. Many other good
makes, athletic and two-piece suits.........................85c to $2.50 the suit
SEE US FOR SNAPPY NECKWEARDavies & Hughes
"DEPENDABLE"
HATTERS AND MEN'S FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES Phone Schonley 5468 M. Next to Strand Theater.
rsI'RIKTNG COLOR 
combinations, rich 
weaves and original­
ity in design mark 
Cheney Cravats with 
distinction. Come in 
and look them over.
CHENEY
CHAVAT&
Sill Genuine Cheney Gravati h,ive 
the name UatnftJ In the necklmnd
SOLD BY
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. 0CH, 3605 Forbes Street
First Down—
Years to Go!
THE Football Rules Committee can abol­
ish a lot of things. But they can’t legislate 
against having fun while you’re shaving.
Tackle that generous tube of Williams’ 
Shaving Cream from the Fresh man’s First Down 
to the Senior’s hardy whisker defense,Williams’ 
rich lather smoothes the way.
Football is a long way off, but the season 
for good shaving is on 
all the time — if you 
use Williams’. It 
softens and lubricates 
your skin and leaves 
your face refreshed 
clean—invigorated.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1922
ÄLUMMI BANQUET, SATURDAY NOON MAY 27
Re-union of Alumni 
During Campus Week
Special Events Scheduled For 
Your Enjoyment
Murk, down on your calendar now 
tlio throb days of May 25, 20 and 27, 
tlio third annual CumpuB WooJc. Aftor 
tho HiiccGHHful CampuH Week of last 
yoar ovory Carnogld alumnus and 
alumna should make llioir annual 
viHlt to tlio school at thin tlmo. Sure­
ly ovoryono who wan lioro hint year 
Is h 1.1 II talking about tlio halr-rahilng 
and breath-taking mysteries. Every 
college In the country ban Itn Homo- 
Coming Week, ho It 1» up to you to 
bo present to boost your college. It 
1« tho tlmo ydu Bhould got back to 
moot your classmates, I'rl'dndu and tho 
student body. It In your duty att a 
Carnoglo Tech graduate or former 
student to bo proHont for It in at thin 
particular tlmo that wo are trying to 
build up tho Alumni Association, and 
without you wo cannot succeed. Tho 
tentative program for the throe big 
dayB nA aa follow«:
May 25.
Thursday morning—Activities will 
start off with a bang at tho Music 
Hull with an Assembly at 10:80. Tho 
big feature will be a large bill of vau- 
dovillo stunts from school talent.
After lunch Qualification Day exer­
cises will bo held. Immediately fol-, 
lowing this ovoryono will go to 
Forbes Field where Penn State and 
Carnoglo Toch Imsoball teams lino up 
for tho big game of tho season. . Dur­
ing tho lunch hour tho musical organ­
izations will give a concert in tho 
Open Air theater.
In the evening dancing in tho Arts 
foyer, Langley Laboratory and tho 
Union until one o’clock.
May 20.
At ten o'clock iu front of tho Cen­
tral Building you will see tho start 
and finish of the third annual lnter- 
fratornlty sweepstakes,
In the afternoon a baseball game 
between Bethany, and Carnoglo.
In the evening at 7:.'to tho Mardi 
Gras will begin. Last yoar was Its 
first appearancq and It took tho school 
by storm;
May 27.
In the morning you will want to 
rest aftor tho Mardi Gras, so there is 
nothing schodulod,
At nodn tho third annual alumni 
banquet will, ho hold In the English 
room of. tho Fort Pitt Hotel at 12 
o'clock.
In tho afternoon i.ho track moot at 
Schonloy Oval.
In tho evening as a grand fiftalo a 
play staged by tho drama students 
will bo held In tho Schnnloy tboator.
Tills will give you a very good Idea 
of what will occur. You will got moro 
good oul of those thvoo days than you 
would from two weeks’ tlmo at some
CLANS COMING BACK
FOR CAMPUS WEEK
Word has boon received from a 
number of tho Claris who anticipate 
attending Carnoglo In a body during 
Campus Week. This 1b a wplondid 
Idea and wo earnestly hopo that It 
will be taken up by tho other Ciano 
who did not think of tho Idea before. 
We want you here for tho big parade 
on May 25. The Clan organizations 
are our only means of keeping in 
•dose contact with our out of Pitts­
burgh alumni, therefore It Is ñecos»- 
sary that they bo back at Carnegio 
during tho celebration. Each year 
tho -school Ib ma,do more beautiful, 
and it’will do your heart good to seo
tho progress that we aro making. 
Plan, to com© In a body and try to 
tliInk of somo way In which you can 
represent Tacili In tho big parade on 
the opening day.
On co you al,tend you, will never 
fall to come bade
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
MEETS ON MAY 6TH
Tlio next regular meeting of the 
Philadelphia Clan will be held on Sat­
urday night, May 6tli, at the Arcadia 
Restaurant. The nominating commit­
tee will present a full ticket for tho 
election of new off Loom who will take 
charge of the meeting. AH aro In­
vited1 to lie present,
M. M. ALUMNAE
Campus Wcok Committee.
A committee to arrange Somo event 
of interest to Margaret Morrison 
alumnae during Campus week has 
boon named. Bernice Kruger Is chair­
man and she will bo assisted by Al­
berta Greene Redenbaugh, and Louise 
Irvin.
About thirty-five or forty girls at­
tended the Tech-State luncheon pre­
ceding the card party.
Miss Hattie Merrill, ’00, has been 
appointed by, Mrs. Rauh, Director of 
tho Department of Charities, to serve 
on a committee to study tlio dietaries 
of the City Homo and Hospital at 
MayvloWi
Florence Booh tel has accepted a 
position as teacher of Home Econom­
ics in'the Clairton High School.
Tho membership committee is con­
ducting a campaign to reinstate de­
linquent members before the hew 
year begins. The class having the 
highest percentage of paid up mem­
bers will be guests at the picnic sup­
per t'o be held during Campus Week 
as tho climax of the campaign, lle- 
mom ber tlio good time we had last 
yoar, and got after your procrasti­
nating classmates.
TEKNON CLUB HOLDS
THEIR FINAL MEETING
FACULTY RECEPTION
FOR PRES. HAMERSCHLAG
Wednesday afternoon, President and 
Mrs. Arthur A. Hamersclilag were 
tendered a reception by the faculty of 
Carnegio Institute of Technology in 
the faculty club rooms at the school, 
In honor of their return from abroad. 
Professor C. W. Sproull served aa 
chairman of the reception committee.
Dr. Hamersclilag was welcomed by 
Prdfes" or Fred Crabtree, President of 
the Faculty. Following an address by 
the guest of honor, an lmformal re­
ception was held, during which re­
freshments were served.
Third Annual Alumni 
Banquet-CampusWeek
To be Held in Fort Pitt Hotel 
at Noon May 27
THEY’RE ALL COMING BACK
DR. BAKER SPEAKS BEFORE
LARGE RADIO AUDIENCE
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Secretary of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, de­
livered an address Friday night, April 
28, in the Post Building. The subject 
of Ills address was “Commercial En­
gineering,” in its relation to the con­
vention held here May 1 and 2. Tills 
address was broadcasted by the radio 
station, KDKA.
Alumni Asked to Register
Tonight, Wednesday evening, i^t 
«Ix o'clock, tho Teknon Club will 
hold its final mooting of tho yçai'
oxponslvo summer resort. It will be 
an inspiration to you and will torn! 
to bind you closer to tho institution. 
Plan on being, boro. Got In touch 
with your old friends and lot your fra­
ternity chapter know you will bo lioro. 
Carnoglo Toch has always boon 100 
per cent, so wo cannot fall at thin 
tlmo.
AUFHAiiER & EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE
The alumni headquarters will be 
located on the campus at which place 
all alumni are asked to register. There 
will bo booths for tho different school» 
and In those booths will be found all 
Information about Campus Week pub­
lications and general information of 
the alumni association. Probably a 
great many of your class mates and 
college chums cannot bo present and 
you have lost all trace of them, make 
the alumni headquarters your detect­
ive agency for wo can assist you In 
locating them agfltln*. When you ar­
rive come first to tho registration 
booths and lot us start you off right 
for tho big woolc. Our hospitality is 
yours. Ploaso accept it by making us 
a visit.
Don't forget, to register.
R.. A.—.1FFiFFrs
Western Electric VT-I
Vacuum Tubes .................$7.50
Murdock Phones, 3000 ohm.0.00 
Baknllte for panels, per
square inch .......................2i/2o
$1,00 V. T.- Socket», with
flrld lenk, Special .......... 75c
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
Company 
'1521 Forbes Street, Noar Craig
Here is die first attribute 
of a citizen of the world. 
Few books can impart 
it, yet it comes natural­
ly with college training. 
Such easy familiarity 
with, the good things of 
life leads naturally to 
Melaclirino/'theoneciga- 
rette sold the world over”
Remember that Mclachrino is ;i master 
blend of only the finestT urkishTobaccos 
as originated hy Mtltiades Mclachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. But the to­
bacco is what you want to know about 
— and if it's Mclachrino — it’s right
chrino
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over”
t
The third annual alumni banquet 
will bo held at 12 p. m. In the Eng­
lish Room of tho Fort Pitt Hotel, Sat­
urday, May 27. This affair will close 
the second year of real alumni activi­
ties at Carnegie Tech and the accom­
plishments during the past year are 
so evident that we cannot help but 
fool it Is the real foundation on which 
we are to base our future organiza­
tion. The banquet is being held at 
noon this year for several reasons all 
of which we feel are of vital interest 
to the participating alumni. First, it 
fils in better with the tentative pro­
gram as It has been arranged. Sec­
ond, it Is much, better for the alumni 
who will be unable to get hero be­
fore Saturday morning, as this ar­
rangement makes possible the sched­
uling of a dance or other social event 
fdr Saturday night. The luncheon 
will interfere in no way with the plans 
for the afternoon events and gives 
the alumni, who have just arrived, a 
chance to meet all of the other visit­
ing graduates and former students al­
most immediately after arriving. We 
know that this banquet is going to be 
the biggest affair the alumni has ever 
held because of the interest that has 
been manifested so far. A very elab­
orate program is being arranged which 
will be strictly a Plaid program con­
sisting of music, vaudeville sketches 
staged by alumni and students of the 
Instlitaition. The (price for the ban­
quet has not been set but will be an­
nounced in the near future. Cards 
will be sent out to alumni within a 
week or two telling just liow you can 
make your reservation for this affair. 
If you cannot be at Carnegie for three 
days be sure to plan to be here for 
Saturday. The speakers for this ban­
quet will be men of prominence. Do 
not forget this date, it is the one big 
eVent you should try to attend. Watch 
the "Carnegie Tartan” for more de­
tails of the banquet.
COME TO CARNEGIE TECH
FOR A JOB CAMPUS WEEK
The Employment Bureau will make 
a special effort to locate all alumni 
who are out of work and will bo here 
for Campus Week. This is not an In­
ducement to bring you back to Car­
negio but Is merely offering to you 
our service while here. The business 
depression is gradually becoming bet­
tor aiid^wo are getting more work 
during the last few months than all 
last year. This does not mean that 
there Is a position for every one who 
Is out of work blit it is one way of 
helping many Carnegie Tech people 
who are unemployed!. Come to the 
Employment Bureau in the Central 
building when you! arrive at tho Cam­
pus and let us talk over your diffi­
culties with. you. Our serviceds yours 
and wo earnestly hope that; you will 
not heriilato to use It.
Program of Events 
1922 Campus Week
WEDNESDAY, MAY 24
6:30 P. M...............................................Tartan Banquet, University Club
9:00 P. M.......................................Inter-Fraternity Dances—Open House
THURSDAY, MAY 25
10:30 A. M............. ...................................Vaudeville Show at Music Hall
1:30 P. M..........................................Qualification and Call at Tech Field
3:30 P. M...Baseball at Forbes Field, Carnegie Tech vs. Penn State
7:30 P. M......................................................Music Fest, Open Air Theater
9:00 P. M................................................................... Dance in Union,
Langley Laboratory, Arts Foyer; Dancing until 1:00 A. M.
FRIDAY, MAY 26
9:30 A. M...................Inter-Fraternity Sweepstakes, Carnegie Course
10:30 A. M.............Baseball at Tech Field, Carnegie Tech vs. Bethany
.1:30 P. M...........................,............Tennis, Carnegie Tech vs. Bucknell
2:30 P. M..........................................................Open House at Mellon Hall
8:30 P. M.................................................................Mardi Gras; Dancing in
Union, Langley Laboratory and Arts Foyer until 2:00 A. M. 
SATURDAY, MAY 27
9:30 A. M..........................................................Tennis, Alümni vs. Varsity
12:00 A. M........................................Alumni Luncheon at Fort Pitt Hotel
2:00 P. M...Track Meet at Schenley Oval, Carnegie Tech vs. W. Va.
6:00 P. M.......................Women’s Banquetât M. M. C. C. LUnch Room
8:30 P. M.......................................Vaudeville Show at Schenley Theater
faces, and above all the sweet music 
of the agonized cries of wounded and 
dying. Can you ask for more?
QUALIFICATION DAY
EXERCISES FOR PLEBES
RULES ANNOUNCED
ON SWEEPSTAKES
(Continued From Pago One.)
8. Tho starting and finish line Is 
tlio same as last year—In front of 
the Doslgn School.
1>. Tho course Is tho sumo as last 
yoar.
Thofco of you who missed this event 
last yoar throw away half of your 
ilifo; thos6 of you who will miss II. 
tihls yoar might* a« well die, for if 
you don't see this you. ain't seen 
nothin’. All of Tech’«' speediest, men 
have been faithfully training for 
months in preparation for tills event. 
Somo aro speedy on the track, the 
football field, and the swimming pool; 
and then there are those who speed 
fastest in a front-porch hammock, or 
a park bench, but they’ve all been 
entered, athletes, aviators, tea hounds 
and just 'Common ordinary matadores.
The cars range all the way from 
great big, gigantic imported racers 
to slim, streamline models of domes­
tic make. Henry Ford has entered a 
back seat; the Packard people stake 
their reputation on a sipark plug 
while tihe Stutz factory hesitated for 
a long time between a mud-guard and 
their reputation, finally deciding on 
their reputation as it repesents the 
least loss in case they don’t get it 
back. And they won’t
The carburetors are all more or less 
of standard make—the Tuxedo tobac- 
coHcan special, the Bevo pint-sizo 
standard empty, and the No. 2 no- 
metial can-touch-you imported; All 
ignition is furnished by the Ziegfield 
Chorus, which is guaranteed to ignite 
anybody. Mudguards are like girls’ 
knee coverings—conspicuous by their 
absence. Ouv boys are going to go 
so fast that the mud can't touch 
them. Tires are by Good-aiul-rich, 
and the fuel is lihe usual fraternity 
breakfast—demonetized oatmeal, in­
sulted water, and a guarantee and a 
proviso,. Differentials furnished by 
Goockler, and tho drives by tlie Y 
'M. iO. A. Controls "are rather care 
loss, and as for brakes—who ovor 
hoard of a Tech Man stopping In a 
tight, place? For mascots wo havo 
tiho China. Silk Sisters—‘Georgette and 
Crepe do Chino—loaned to us espec­
ially for the ooc&isiou by the drama 
department..' Wo have promised to 
return t.lienu Police protection will 
bo furnished by the C Club, 'ably as­
sisted by the Royal Northwest Mount­
ed Police. Stretcher bearers and 
hospital service, will bo rendered by 
tho Pittsburgh Reduction Company.
And tlieu the race itself! Powerful, 
two-seated racers hurtling madly 
through the air, taking corners with 
death-defying speed- The jangling 
crash of pulsing .monsters colliding 
at frightful speedl The sound of 
crushing steel and-splintering glass. j 
Spectators gashing with averted
i
.V
(Continued From Page One.) 
always ended in good spirit and 
friendship.
On this day the Plebes will learn 
In tho ceremonies, which take the 
form of a funeral, what it means to be 
a Carnoglo Clansman. At tho tlmo of 
tho funeral those black ties, socks, 
hats and armbands will bo buried and 
bo things of tho past, but still cherish­
ed in memories to think over and 
talk about In aftor years.
As the Plebes march past tlie coflln 
they will lay therein their tribute to 
bo burned on tho funeral pyre-and go 
on mourning tho passing of a dear 
friend.
The symbol of the union of all 
classes in1 the Clan is a chain with a 
link for .each class; the Senior’s link 
is stamped with their numerals to 
mark their departure from the active 
Clan and the newest class will have 
its link forged onto the end of the 
chain; from then on this class will 
be an inseparable part of the Clain,
There is something behind this 
formality which has a deep meaning.. 
As the chain can be stronger than its. 
weakest link so the Clan can/be no 
stronger than its weakest class.
In the years to come, you, Plebes, 
this neAv link, will find yourselves be 
twee'll many others and then, if not 
before, you will realize the necessity 
for strength. Start nowr to bind your­
selves • together, forget petty differ­
ences, organize and co-operate for 
your own benefit and the furtherance 
of the ideals and honor of our school 
so that three years from now when 
3rou are here to put 3rour numerals on 
your link you will have the satisfac­
tion of knowing that ypu have done 
your best.
At the end of the day you will be a 
Carnegie Clansman bound by the 
pledge which is:
"We; the undersigned, accepted 
brothers of the Carnegie Clan, do 
hereby pledge our loving loyalty to 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and our devotion to the faithful serv­
ice of her interests. We gladly ac­
knowledge our duty as individuals to 
uphold her honor and good name, and 
willingly assume our obligations to 
bear our part in the work of tho 
Clan. Our lioarts aro in the work.’
M. M. C. C. ANNUAL BANQUET 
TO BE HELD CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Pag9 One.) 
of the program. But we aren’t going 
to let tho cat out of the bag entirely, 
not this time anyway ; just liis head, 
as it were. Enough to say that you 
can expect some mighty good things 
without fear of being disappointed. 
And then there’s the food!
The banquet is to be held Saturda; 
night, the 27tli. in the Margaret Mi 
rison lunch room, and when you 
the result of the artistic effort thi 
to be. expended upon aforesaid
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAE
The Benefit.
The card party 'held at the Fort 
Pitt Hotel on April 22 was a great 
success. As usual very few reserva­
tions had been made previous to date 
of the party, jind the committee was 
suffering with nervous chills. How­
ever all doubt as to i|he poumlarity of 
the party were dispelled when the 
doors wore opened and the ’ throng 
began pouring in. About sixty tables 
were* in play, and the overflo w had to 
bo accommodated in a corner of tho 
dining room. The unexpected size of 
the crowd, caused little confusion at 
first, and also upset the serving ar­
rangements but nobody seemed to 
mind. As has been said many times 
before it is impossible to run such a 
party absolutely without a hitch when 
prospective guests will not make res­
ervations ahead.
The first prize for bridge went to 
Miss K. E. Anderson, the second to 
Mrs. J. O. Young; for "500” to Miss 
Mary iSlhee.rin. The men’s prize, which 
was a season ticket donated by the 
Athletic Association, was captured by 
Mr. Lee Wildman. Quite a number 
of men came over from the luncheon 
and several of the girls) brought 
their husbands, and all seemed ‘to 
have a good time.
Owing- to the density of the crowd 
in. the Assembly Room refreshments 
there'had to be served cafeteria style, 
which wasn’t so pleasant. Remember, 
girls, that this could have been avoid­
ed had the committee been able to 
tell the hotel even approximately how 
many to prepare for. Next year make 
your reservations on time.
Financially the party was most suc­
cessful and the Association wishes to 
thank all who helped by attending or 
contributing. Much credit is also due 
the committee which consisted of 
Lydia Bates Glock,' chairman; Mary 
Craighead Brinton,.Laura Fliun Spoon­
er, Margaret Wirth and Marion 
Keefer.
DR. BAKER SPEAKS AT
ERIE, PA., YESTERDAY
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, secretary of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, was 
the principal speaker last evening at 
the alumni banquet of Central High 
School in Erie, Pa.
In the afternoon the Erie Clan, of 
Carnegie Tech Alumni gave a 'lunch­
eon and reception in honor of Dr. 
Baker.
room you will probably not recognize 
it as the ordinary lun.Qh room of or­
dinary days. Tho time of the banquet 
is half-past five in order to give the 
banqueters time to get to the play 
which is to wind up Campus Week. 
After a banquet like this you will be 
in just the proper frame of mind to 
eijjoy the play.
'ickets go on sale next week. Come 
rly and avoid the rush.
A prominent Pittsburgh manufac­
turing concern will have a steady 
year round position open June 1st for 
a graduate woman chemist, straight 
analytical work, in a modern well- 
equipped laboratory, located in the 
central part of the city—one who has 
a practical knowledge of mineral oils, 
fatty oils and their compounds.
Apply by letter, stating age, experi­
ence and salary expected. Address P. 
L., this paper.—Adv.
T ravel
is relieved of its embarrass­
ments when you have a let­
ter of credit from us. And 
through our Steamship 
Agency we can arrange every 
detail for you of any trip, 
tour or cruise, afloat and 
ashore.
Mellon N.
Pitt
Dancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M,
“THE
RITTENHOUSE”
1 ‘ Giles. ’ ’ Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
“Tlie Sextons.”
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh.
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. .8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ...........................8 to 9
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People” 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School...... 9:45A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service......... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next | 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to *
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Fashion Forced on Women.
'n the reign of Philip III of France 
men were forced to wear veils In 
^edience to ecclesiastical decree.
chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
“melts in your 
mouth,” leaving 
the deliciously 
flavored gum 
center to aid 
digestion, 
brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.
REGSTUnFH TY,PBWDHSM92S’
