7955 Homecoming Queen
Denise Getsie is crowned by Dr. J. C. Warner in the Gym Friday, 
as the Queen’s Court, Pat Mueller and Joan Masteller, look on.
Open House Of 1955 
Planned For Tonight
Tonight Tech is being visited by many educators, parents, and 
prospective students at the annual Open House between 7:30 and 
10:00. This event is to show Tech’s work, objectives, and facilities. 
Visitors will be guided through the different departments and given 
the opportunity to talk with the^* 
individual departmental heads, 
watch demonstrations, and see
classes in action.
Tours through the departments 
will be conducted by Tech stu­
dents and many of the displays 
are the work of the students. In­
cluded on the agenda for engineers 
are seeing the research labora­
tories at work, seeing printing 
presses in operation, and watch­
ing wind and smoke tunnels.
In the College of Fine Arts, the 
visitor will witness a rehearsal of 
the drama school, see sculptors 
and painters at work, and watch 
an architectural drafting class in 
session. At 8:00 the music depart­
ment will present a concert given 
by the students.
MMCC Home Ec department is 
presenting exhibits in all of its 
fields, including “Table Settings 
for Casual Living,” and “College
On Display In EH
This is not a washing machine, 
but the physics department’s beta 
ray spectroscope.* * *
Wardrobe Necessities.” A demon­
stration of the use of food gadgets 
will be given every fifteen min­
utes. Both the secretarial and sci­
ence departments are giving dem­
onstrations, showing and illustrat­
ing the different techniques and 
practices employed. Visitors will 
see student seminar papers, re­
generation experiments, and charts 
in these fields.
The visitors will be able to see 
a movie given by the military de­
partment and see a display of 
modern weapons , models of 
bridges, and radio equopment.
Open House promises to be an 
exciting and rewarding experience 
for the prospective students. The 
school has many varied programs, 
one to interest every individual 
taste, and the students at Tech are 
very much a part of Open House. 
They make up the displays, give 
the demonstrations, and serve as 
guides in order to facilitate the 
visitor’s venture into Carnegie 
Tech.
Rev. M. A. Thomas 
A Campus Guest 
On November 55 6, 7
The Reverend M. A. Thomas of 
Travancore, India will be a guest 
on the Tech campus November 
5, 6 and 7, at the invitation of the 
Student Christian Federation 
Council. The Rev. M. A. Thomas 
belongs to the ancient Mar Thoma 
Church, in Travancore, India. 
Travancore is one of the strong­
holds of Communism in India and 
Mr. Thomas has had to face the 
problem of how a Christian faces 
life in a Communist situation. He 
speaks with first hand experience 
of his various encounters there. 
The Mar Thoma Church is be­
lieved to have been founded by 
the Apostle St. Thomas before 52 
A.D.
For the primary event of the 
weekend, he will address students, 
faculty, and guests at Sunday din­
ner in the Blue room at Morewood 
Gardens. He will also meet for 
informal discussions with smaller 
campus groups who request this 
opportunity through the Office of 
Religious Affairs (Ext. 239). Tic­
kets for the dinner, at $1.25, may 
be purchased before November 3 
from any member of the SCFC, 
through any of the campus de­
nominational groups, the YMCA 
or YWCA, or through the Office 
of Religious Affairs in Carnegie 
Union. Morewood Garden residents 
may make reservations without 
extra charge..
Mr. Thomas graduated from the 
[Continued on page 2]
VOL. 49—No. 6 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., OCT. 25, 1955
Dance Climaxes Fiftieth 
Anniversary Weekend
Over 1,000 alumni, including the class of 1908—Carnegie Tech’s first graduating class 
—and a record number of students were on the Tech campus last weekend to celebrate 
CIT’s fiftieth anniversary during annual Homecoming Weekend festivities.
Opening the Yankee Yarn Weekend was the traditional Carnegie Day Program Fri-
*day afternoon. Dr. J. C. War-
T artan
The TARTAN which you 
are now clutching is composed 
of only four pages, due to 
several circumstances, some of 
which were entirely within 
our control. Also due to cir­
cumstances, one of which is 
the untimely occurrence of 
mid - semester exams, next 
week’s issue will be of the 
same limited volume. It is re­
grettable but necessary that we 
are forced to publish two such 
emaciated issues consecutively. 
Complaints will be accepted 
only from those who are will­
ing to volunteer their serv­
ices to the TARTAN.
Freshmen Receive 
Traditions Aivards
On Carnegie Day, October 21, 
Traditions Test results were an­
nounced and awards made. The 
five highest ranking students were 
awarded Thistles as a result of 
their achievement on the test. Fran 
Bebic, music, had a score of 98; 
Betty Misklow, MMCC, 96; Janet 
Felmeth, MMCC, 93, Regina Dan- 
cull, P&D, 92; and Natalie Laird, 
music, 92. The next four highest 
ranking students were Pat Muel­
ler, MMCC, 91; John Olmstead, 
E&S, Beth Liden, MMCC, and 
Dorothy Beehner, MMCC, all with 
a score of 90.
The boys outnumber the fresh­
man girls by more than 2.5 to 1 
and yet only one boy scored among 
the highest. Those who scored high 
are to be congratulated for up­
holding a very vital part of the 
college life. Also all who attended 
the exam helped to make the at­
tendance larger than usual.
Denise Getsie Crowned; Calls 
Made At Carnegie Day Exercises
At 1:30 October 21, Homecoming 1955 started officially with the 
Carnegie Day eercxises. The Kiltie Band brought the crowd to at­
tention with their playing of E Pluribus Unum, a march by Fred 
Jewell. Master of Ceremonies, Robert Levin, welcomed the audi-
¦?ence, and Mr. Thomas J. Ess gave 
the Alumni Message.
Climaxing the Carnegie Day 
celebration was the crowning of 
the Homecoming Queen. To the 
accompaniment of the Kiltie Bag­
pipers and Scabbard and 31ade, 
Queen Denise Getsie and her court, 
Pat Mueller and Joan Masteller, 
made their way to the platform. 
Here she was crowned by Presi­
dent Warner and entertained by 
the Crocketts on Parade and the 
Scottish dances of Mary Elizabeth 
Davidson.
Yankee Yarns was officially 
opened when Queen Denise knight­
ed a wild frontiersman who shot 
down a box of confetti hung over 
the heads of the audience. The 
celebration ended with everyone 
singing Fight for the Glory of 
Carnegie.
During the course of the pro­
gram, the Cameron Choir sang two 
selections — Rock-a My Soul by 
Joseph DeVaux and Oklahoma by 
[Continued on page 4]
Cordic? Cornpone 
At Friday Rally
Starting traditionally at More­
wood Gardens, the Kiltie Band led 
the enthusiastic Tartan supporters 
up Forbes Street to the Tech Bowl 
for the rousing Homecoming Pep 
Rally at 7:30 Friday evening.
Despite the raw weather, a good- 
sized crowd got out to cheer the 
Tech football team, listen to the 
fraternity pledge cheers, and last 
but not least, see Rege Cordic as 
master of ceremonies. The Kiltie 
Band, in warm jackets and trous­
ers, led the group in Tech songs 
and cheers.
The fraternity pledges came out 
to cheer dressed in everything 
from sweatshirts to khakis to 
white shirts, ties and jackets. 
While the TX pledges were in the 
middle of their cheer, a loud voice 
[Continued on page 23
Tom Sawyer’s 
Whiteivashing 
Wins First
It’s all over but the final clean­
up. By now, nearly everybody 
knows the results of the 1955 
Fraternity Homecoming Display 
Competition, the awards for which 
were made at the Saturday night 
dance.
For the third straight year, Al­
pha' Tau Omega won the first 
place trophy. Their portrayal of 
Tom Sawyer white-washing the 
Temple owl was judged the best 
all-around display among this 
year’s entries. Not far behind them 
in second place was Delta Up- 
silon with their display of Salem 
Witchcraft. Last year, DU took 
third place honors with “Maggie 
and Jiggs.” Casey Jones brought 
the third place trophy to Kappa 
Sigma.
Many people agreed that the 
quality of this year’s displays was 
much higher than that of previous 
years. There was not one entry 
that could have been considered 
out of the running for an award. 
Thanks to great effort on the part 
of the Greeks, all displays were 
finished ahead of schedule, and 
no mechanical or structural fail­
ures occurred during the judging. 
This made it all the harder to 
pick first, second, and third place 
winners from the field of twelve.
The judging was based on origi­
nality, workmanship, appropriate­
ness to occasion, and connection to 
theme. Added to this was the 
stipulation that each display make 
some mention of the football 
game, and welcome the alumni.
Dorm Mixer
This Friday, October 28, at 
9 p.m., a dorm mixer will be 
held in the lounge at Donner 
Hall. There will be dancing 
and refreshments.
ner crowned Denise Getsie 
queen of the 1955 Homecom­
ing Weekend. She and her 
court, which included Joan 
Masteller and Pat Mueller, 
officially opened the festivi­
ties following calls and awards 
by Tech honoraries.
Climaxing the campus three- 
day holiday was the Homecoming 
Dance Saturday evening, at which 
the presentation of trophies to 
winners of fraternity and soror­
ity competitions was made. The 
alumni and students turned out 
in such great force that ODK and 
Mortar Board ran out of tickets. 
The floor was packed almost to 
the point where dancing was im­
possible. There was general chaos 
at the coat racks towards to the 
close of the dance because of the 
crowd, the largest seen in quite a 
few years.
Awards were announced by 
Barbara Kerr and Bob Lindsay, 
co-chairmen of the 1955 Home­
coming program which is tra­
ditionally planned by the two 
senior honoraries, Mortar Board 
and Omicron Delta Kappa.
Fraternity Displays
Copping first place trophy for 
the third consecutive year was 
Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity for 
its display based on Mark Twain’s 
“Tom SaWyer”. The scene was 
set into the pages of a book, 
creating a three-dimensional ef­
fect. Tom was seen whitewashing 
a fence, thus suggesting the 
phrase, “whitewash Temple”. An 
original record by the ATO’s pro­
vided musical background for the 
display. The winning display was 
designed by John Kestner, junior 
painting and design student.
Second place trophy was award­
ed to Delta Upsilon for its depic­
tion of a Salem Witchcraft scene. 
Two American colonists were seen 
catching owls and carrying them 
to a witch who tarred and feather­
ed them in a large cauldron. In 
the background eleven owls, 
representing Temple, were hung.
Kappa Sigma was awarded the 
third place cup for its Casey Jones 
[Continued on page 4]
Prize Winning ATO Display 
Tom Sawyer has given the Owl a going over just as Tech did 
Saturday. This ecellently designed and constructed display of ATO 
won a deserved first place in the interfraternity contest.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 25, 1955
Seven Short Days Set 
For Tech Chest Drive
Janet Bishop, senior Margaret Morrison student and vice-presi­
dent of Student Council, has been named chairman of the 1955 Campus 
Chest Drive on the lech campus. The annual drive is scheduled to 
begin November 14 and extend through November 21. The funds 
solicited will be allocated to or-* '
ganizations recommended largely Open HotlSe OpeOn 
by the Campus Chest Advisory 1 *
Committee set up by the chair-! For Frosh E.E.’s
man. This Advisory Committee is j better acquaint freshman
designed to advise the Campus j electrical engineers with the elec- 
Chest organization and aid in mak- trical department, a new feature
is being planned for them at open 
house tonight. Freshman electricals 
and their friends are invited to
ing fundamental decisions.
Appointed to the committee 
were Bob Russell, Rachel Katzin, 
Larry Wilbur, Larry Kronenberg- 
er, Dee Beede, Bud Moore, Bob 
Lindsay, Bob Marik, Clarence 
Schmidt, Ed Feigenbaum, Peet Sil­
vester, Peer Soelberg, and Ste­
phanie Mackay.
Also appointed were Timothy 
Day, Molly Rudy, Mary Langdon, 
Jo Lacey, Shirley Wilson, Joan 
Newman, Mary Michael Pollock, 
Paul Lang, Diane Farrington, Ed 
Pasierb, Peggy Vetter, Morgan 
Edwards, and Evelyn Alessio.
Extensive plans are already un­
der way for this year’s campaign
including the organization of a the department instructors, hear
go on E. E. department tours which 
are especially designed to give the 
prospective electricals an inside 
look at the equipment and facili­
ties in Machinery Hall. The tours 
will be conducted by junior and 
senior AIEE-IRE members and 
will leave from M. H. 101 every 
half-hour starting at 7 p.m.
To follow up this introduction 
to the electrical department, a spe­
cial assembly program will be held 
for the new electricals next Tues­
day, November 1, Room 100, Por­
ter Hall at 11:30 a.m. During that 
assembly the freshmen will meet
personal-solicitations drive. Head­
ing the Solicitations Committee is 
Bill Zakowicz. Bud Moore, presi­
dent of Alpha Phi Omega, has 
been named chairman of Special 
Projects. Peer Soelberg will serve 
as Supplier Officer; Evelyn Alessio 
has been named Publicity Chair­
man and Morgan Edwards will 
tentatively act as Educational Ad­
visor. Secretary of the Campus 
Chest organization is Molly Rudy 
assisted by Jan McPeake. Ed Pa­
sierb has been named treasurer.
The Campus Chest Advisory 
Committee and Organization is ad­
vised by Mr. Dale Strick and Mr. 
Sam Gibson. The Faculty Campus 
Chest Campaign will run concur­
rently with the Student Drive. 
Last year’s drive, headed by Si­
mon Kellman, raised over $1400.00 
in funds. As last year, students 
will be permitted to specify, if 
they so desire, the organization 
to which they would like their 
contribution directed.
about the research that is going 
on in the department, learn about 
the upper class courses they will 
take, and be introduced to some 
organizations that they, as elec­
tricals, might want to join. All 
freshman electricals are urged to 
attend this assembly which is be­
ing put on for their benefit by the 
AIEE-IRE in cooperation with the 
department faculty.
Pep Rally—
[Continued from page 1] 
was heard on the hill, and Cor- 
dic’s Beauregarde J. Cornpone, 
fully dressed in his confederate 
uniform, stormed down to the 
platform.
After a long and entertaining 
discourse between Cordic and the 
southern gentleman, the pledge 
cheers were resumed, and after 
another cheer and a song or two, 
the rally broke up around 8:30.
Cordic And Cornpone
The Tech Bowl nearly turned into another Bull Run at the Pep 
Rally Friday night, as Rege Cordic and his disloyal buddy Cornpone 
fought the whole thing over again to the amusement of the fans.
Rev. M. A. Thomas
To Be Guest On Campus 
* * *
Rev. Thomas—
i[Continued from page I] 
University of Madras in India, and 
studied theology at Westcott House, 
Cambridge, England. After gradu­
ation he worked for seven years 
as general secretary of the Uni­
versity Division for India of the 
International Fellowship. This 
work brought him into close con­
tact with Mahatma Gandhi, D. Sir 
S. Radhakrishinan (the present 
present vice president of India) 
and many other non-Christian 
leaders of India in the religious 
and socio-political field. He has 
been intimately associated with the 
Student Christian Movement of In­
dia, Burma, and Ceylon.
As an “ecumenical ambassador” 
Mr. Thomas is visiting colleges 
and universities in the United 
States to share with American stu­
dents his understanding of the job 
of the Christian and the Christian 
Church in a revolutionary day. He 
is serving as Co-Secretary of the 
Ecumenical Student Conference on 
the Christian World Mission. The 
Conference, which has as its theme 
“Revolution and Reconciliation” 
will be held in Athens, Ohio in 
December, 1955.
The Student Christian Federa­
tion is the campus expression of 
Protestant, Christian unity and 
concern and the focus of ecumeni­
cal cooperation. The member 
groups are: Canterbury Club, Luth­
eran Student Association, Roger 
Williams Fellowship, Tech Christ­
ian Fellowship, Teknon Club, 
Wesley Foundation, Westminster 
Foundation, the YMCA and the 
YWCA.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Morewood Gardens Mortar Board’sIInspected; Awards Fashion Parade 
Given To Girls Orients Freshmen
As a final climax to the Home­
coming weekend, Morewood Gar­
dens was legally invaded by men 
Sunday afternoon from 2 ’til 5. At 
one of the most successful Open 
House days in recent years, More­
wood opened its doors to the the 
families and friends of the resi­
dents. Hurried last-minute touches 
were added to room decoration and 
furniture and floors dusted, just in 
time for the first visitors.
An added feature was the con­
test in which rooms were judged 
for neatness, cleanliness, attractive­
ness, and home-like appearance. 
Gift certificates at Kaufmann’s will 
be given as prizes. Mrs. Hagins, 
resident head, has announced the 
winners as follows: first prize— 
Joan Henricksen and Irene We- 
housie, 4C9, second prize—Carol 
Hlin and Irene Jones, 3A3; third 
prize—Marilyn Carson and Joan 
Litchfield, 5A1. Judging the com­
petition were Dean Hackett, Mrs. 
Hagins, and tower hostesses Mrs. 
Wilson and Mrs. Cline.
Spanish Dancer 
Appears At Nixon
Carmen Amaya, world famed 
Spanish flamenco dancer, and her 
company of twenty outstanding 
dancers and musicians, will appear 
here at the Nixon Theater, Satur­
day evening, October 29.
Her current tour marks this vol­
canic gypsy artist’s first appear­
ance in the United States after a 
ten-year absence. During her ap­
pearance in Pittsburgh, she will 
dance some of the purest and most 
fiery interpretations of the Fla­
menco ever seen here. Discount 
tickets are available to students 
and faculty.
“A Mortar Board Fashion 
Show,” a new twist on the tradi­
tional Mortar Board Orientation 
Program for the freshman women, 
was held in the Mary Breed Mem­
orial Hall Tuesday, October 18. 
The models in the show repre­
sented all the women’s honoraries 
and other organizations including 
| the seven sororities on campus. 
I Casual, class and dressy clothes 
I were shown.
At an institution, such as Car- 
| negie Tech, which particularly 
j stresses academic achievement, 
| honoraries necessarily play an im- 
j portant part in campus life. Mich­
ael Pollock, president of Mortar 
Board, emphasized them particu- 
j larly in her narration of the fash- 
| ion show. The freshmen were also 
introduced to departmental soci- 
; eties and many other organizations 
1 offering various activities to satis­
fy almost every interest.
“Sugar Coating the Pill” 
j Mortar Board faced the program 
| with another new approach. What 
I they called “sugar - coating - the- 
| pill” was an encouragement for all 
the freshmen to become aware of 
the cultural advantages on campus 
and within walking distance of the 
school. The Carnegie Plan was ex­
plained also, and its practicality 
emphasized.
Each fall for the past few years, 
Mortar Board has held an orienta­
tion program for the freshman 
women to acquaint them with the 
women’s honoraries and the other 
organizations, and to advise them 
about the activities and opportu­
nities available to them. This year 
Sylvia Fasick, chairman of the 
program, hit upon the fashion show 
to make the program more inter­
esting for the freshmen, enlight­
ening them about campus fashions 
as well as activities.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
Mil 3-0242 or AL 1-3200
Attention!!—STUDENTS
Avoid the Rush!
MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS NOW FOR THE 
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5800 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17, Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Ml'sium 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-0846. for advertising and subscription
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. . I
Editor-in-Chief .............................................................................................................Robert Russell
BnintH Manager ..............................................................................................................Vic Shiry
News Editor ......................................................... ................... ...............Marjo King
Hptrti Editor........................ ................. ............ ........................Tom Wright
Copy Editor..................... .......................................................... ..................... .......... Richard Fox
KtaiirH Editor.......................................................................... .........................Stephanie Mackay
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa . under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
ratf? of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
Employment Opportunities
—in—
VENEZUELA
-with-
CREOLE PETROLEUM CORPORATION
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N.J.) 
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
TUESDAY, NOV. 1
to interview unmarried graduates with majors in
ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 25, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
Tartans Squeeze Past Temple
offense bogged down and Smith 
Tech’s Ace Adams, No. 11, stops Temple runner with Chalupa,; had to punt. At this point Tech
By Jim Lacey
Dr. Eddie Baker’s high-flying Tartans presented the old grads 
an 18-16 victory over the Temple Owls before a large, happy Home­
coming crowd at Forbes Field last Saturday.
Even though the present Tech team is only a shadow of the 
teams of yesteryear, when the#
IM Bridge
Entries are due on Novem­
ber 4 for those wishing to 
compete in intramural bridge. 
Play begins November 9.
Tech Tliinclads
Tartans met grid giants like Pitt, jor touchdown alley. The play, /f 11 sll (\ fl SP
and Notre Dame, they showed the ' COvered 74 yards and put thealumni they could hold their own 
against Class B opposition.
The Scots so completely dominated 
the game in the second half that 
the Owls only had one play from 
scrimmage. That play ended up as 
an interception for Tech’s Bill 
Temel.
Tech Punt Blocked
Tech received and was forced 
into a safety putting Temple ahead 
2-0 as a punt by Marshall Brown 
was blocked into the end zone.
Scots out in front for thes rest of j The Homecoming story at dear 
the game. DeVries try again miss- ¡old Tech started off with a colossal 
ed. | bang Wednesday afternoon as the
Majeski Intercepts ¡harriers of coach Bob Carman
Tech added another T.D. when traveled to Cleveland and com- 
Walt Majeski intercepted Pete | Pletel^ smas^d their opponents 
Pietrowicz’s pass on the Temple
22 and romped into the end zone 
Unmolested. Ken Ficery tried to 
kick for the extra point, but didn’t 
get it off as Temple was in on 
him.
i j . , „ , 0 , Temple was still to be heardTemple punted and Frank Smith . .. ¦ , , 3 •i "V, uni u- ic trom as they started a drive onbrought the ball to his own 16. 1 47
from Case. The Skibos captured 
the first five positions with ease 
and then obtained seventh and 
ninth to almost thoroughly white­
wash the Case Tech thinclads. The 
big men for Tech were again Bill 
and Larry Bryant, and freshman 
standouts Bill Whitman and Eric 
Otternik. These four Tartans
No. 31, coming to help in last week’s Homecoming game.
On CampuswithMaxShuJman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
STRIKE UP THE BAND!
Learning the words of all the latest popular songs—as anyone 
must who wants to amount to anything on campus — becomes 
more and more difficult. Take last night. I had the radio on 
for no more than five minutes, and in that time heard two brand 
spanking new songs—a jump tune called Rock With Me, Hymie 
and a hillbilly ballad called They’re Hanging Ralph T. Sigafoos 
at Cock-crow.
And that’s the way it goes. New tunes are absolutely flooding 
the market. No wonder you’re having trouble memorizing all 
the lyrics.
But you don’t have to be dull about it. I mean, when a song is 
playing and you don’t know the lyrics, don’t just stand there 
singing dum, dum, de, dum or la, la, la or voom voom. That is 
very dull. Pick more interesting syllables-like slimp gans or 
kretch dinkle or mlath roke.
Take, for instance, That Old Black Magic. Let’s say you 
forgot some of the lyrics. Try singing this:
That old kretch dinkle 
Has me in its mlath,
That old kretch dinkle,
That I slimp so gans,
Those icy dinkles 
Running down my slimp,
That old kretch dinkle
When your roke meets mine . .. etc.
See? Interesting? What did I tell you?
But knowing the lyrics-or interesting substitutes—is not nearly 
enough. To really rate on campus, you must also be acquainted 
with odd and interesting facts about the composers. For example:
1. Irving Berlin’s name spelled backwards is Gnivri Nilreb.
2. Rodgers and Hammerstein can only write music while 
whitewashing a fence.
3. Ludwig von Beethoven’s hobby was collecting cold sores.
4. One of our greatest songs was written because the wife 
of an impecunious composer came home one afternoon with a 
canteloupe and a dog named Lassie. “Why did you bring home a
canteloupe and a dog named Lassie?” said the composer to his 
wife. “For the baby,” she replied. The composer grew angry. 
“Here we are flat broke/’ he cried, “and you come home with 
a melon for the baby, a collie for the baby!” Suddenly, struck by 
an inspiration, he rushed to the piano and wrote Melancholy 
Baby.
5. Cole Porter writes all his songs with a popsicle stick on 
the side of a horse.
6. Hoagy Carmichael’s hobby is spelling Irving Berlin’s name 
backwards.
And what does the true music lover smoke? Why, Philip Morris, 
of corris! Why? Because Philip Morris is a song of a cigarette— 
a veritable symphony, a melody serene, a tone poem, a cantata, 
a lied, a chansonette, a fugue of one gentle puff upon another, 
allegro yet dolce, lively, mild, harmonious.
That's why. ®nu shui»»«. im*
To old Max's statement», the makers of Philip Morris, sponsors of 
this column, add this second chorus: Try today's gentle Philip Morris 
in the bright netv red, white and gold pack.
After a first down on the 26 Tech’s ^^mke^passed^to Connie strolled across the finish line hand
a.«* gfgt^n ^or^he score? and GoodaH j hand, establishing a Case course 
added the extra point, but Temple record- Following only a few scant 
still trailed 18-16. Tech then ran i yards behind was Captain Jim 
out the clock giving them their |F1ynn’ senior architect who has 
third straight victory after an ;done a tremendous job in aiding 
opening game loss to Lafayette. j coac^ Carman form a fine team.
Throughout the game Tech’s ! This Friday the harriers invade 
smaller inexperienced line out j ^ew ^ ilmington, Pa., wheie they 
fought, out rushed, and in general ^ace their traditional rival, West- 
outplayed the Owls’ line. The play 
of Frank Wengryzn and Jerry 
Stalnacker was particularly out­
standing.
Next week Tech travels to 
Washington, Pa. The Tartans meet
got the break of the game, as the 
safety man Roy Geraci fumbled 
and big Frank Wengryzn fell on 
the ball at the Tech 45. This start­
ed Tech’s first T.D. drive. In four­
teen plays John Tucci, sopomore 
ace from Clairton, dove over from 
the half-yard mark for the score. 
Tucci tossed four passes good for 
36 yards in this series, mixing 
these with running plays. Roy De­
Vries missed the try for the 
extra point.
DeVries then kicked off to Jim
Thompson who brought the ball to j Presidents Wf “S*™ “d1 Jefferson under coach Chuck Nel-his own 34-yard marker. Chet 
Brunke’s pass was • intercepted by 
Bill Temel, and the Tartans i Toni 
threatened again. However, the 
clock ran out with Tech on the 20.
Tech was ahead 6-2.
Temple Scores
Temple came out fired up for 
the second half, and started a 
drive on their own 47 that netted 
a touchdown. Carl Anderson and 
Charlie Goodall ripped through the 
Tech line for long gains. Anderson 
went over from the 2 and Goodall 
converted.
Tech then trailed 9-6, but not 
for long as on the second play 
from scrimmage on the 26 Tucci 
hurled a bullet to DeVries who 
took it on the 38. He pushed one 
man aside, and bulled his way 
through two others and was off
son.
Statistics
TEMPLE8.......... First Downs Total ............ 116................ By Rushing ................ 8 0........... By Penalties ................. 135.............. Rushing Plays ........... 3980.... Yards Gained Rushing ....14063.......... Net Gain Rushing ........... 8816.Forward Passes No. Attempted. 136. .Forward Passes No. Complete. . 40. . Forward Passes Intercepted . . 2108.... . Net Gain Passing .......... 3351 . Total Plays Rush & Pass .. 52171.. Total Net Yards Gained ..1265..............Number Punts ................. 622 3/5 .. . Average Yards ... 29%1 ............ Punts Blocked ................. 02 ............ Punt Returns ................. 116........ Punt Return Yards ........ 18
2. ..... . Kickoff Returns ....... 5
minster. Westminster boasts a fine 
squad headed by Bill Sheraw and 
Marlow Talbert. The meet will 
undoubtedly be the stiffest test 
for the Scots since Geneva took 
their meet a few weeks ago.
The Tartans have now posted a 
4-1 win-loss record and are on 
their way to another highly suc­
cessful season. As Tri-State time 
draws near, the Plaid from CIT 
looms more and more as a po­
tential winner behind its strong 
team spirit.
26... . Kickoff Returns Yards .
2. . . . Interception Returns 32 . . Yards Returned Intercept
5..................... Fumbles ..........................2.... Ball Lost on Fumbles .
9........... Penalties Number . . .
73........... Yards Penalized ....
Tech ______________. 0 6 6 6—18
Temple ................... 2 0 7 7—16
I-M Football In Final 
Week Of League Play
KS Clinches Kiltie League Crown; 
Other Leagues Are Still Undecided
McKee Picks 
14 Winners
David McKee, a junior electrical 
engineer from New Castle. Pa., 
outguessed most forecasters in 
picking 14 of 15 winners in a week 
of numerous upsets. Dave was the 
only contestant to forecast Pitt’s 
j upset victory over Duke, which 
] gave him the margin over two 
contestants who picked 13 of 15 
correct.
Ironically enough, Dave’s only 
mistake was in predicting one too 
many upsets. He thought Penn 
State could top West Virginia. He 
will be presented with a certificate 
for a 1956 Thistle.
I-M Volleyball
By Gerald Pittler
There was little action in the Tartan, Skibo. and Kiltie Leagues
Due to preparations for Home­
coming only three games were 
played in intramural volleyball 
last week. The Obelisks-Dorm A
, , , . . , ,, , . team defeated DU-KKG. ATO-of the Intramural program last week as ram caused the postpone- Dorm B defeated BTP and SAE-
ment of last Wednesday’s games and no games were scheduled Commuters beat BSR-KAT
for October 21 as Friday was the first day of Homecoming. This As the season enters its last
week is the last week of scheduled^--------------------------------------------------Tg week, it looks ilke a fight between
Skibo League race. PK “A” and ! SAE-Commuters and Obelisks-games with the playoffs due to 
begin as soon as the league cham­
pions have been determined.
DTD, led by quarterback Ken 
Laughery, moved one step closer 
to the Tartan League champion­
ship as they downed TDP, 23-11. 
The Delts jumped off to a lead at 
half-time and coasted home with 
the win. ATO “A” completed their 
season with a 34-19 victory over 
a rugged TX aggregation. They
SAE now battle for the crown. ^orm A League I and between 
SAE, who also beat the Static PK-Chi Omega and ATO-Dorm B 
Charges 23-17 has a 4-0 record, ; *n I^eague H- The winners will bt 
while PK “A,” which was idle last ¦ decided when these teams meet 
week, has a 3-0 mark. These j week. 
neighbors and evenly matched
teams will meet later this week, | Grads for second place. This is 
and the winner will probably be- unlikely and KS and SN should
come the league champs while the finish first and second respectively 
loser will fare no worse than sec- in the league race, 
ond place. The other game in the , Tartan
now have a 5-1 chart, which places j league between ASCE and BSR DTD „
them in second place behind the ! has been protested and no score ATO 5-1
Delts. ; was received. In t^ie game, Don hte 1 - i
PKA also has a mathematical j Gurwitz, Beta Sig end, suffered Obelisks ..........................   1-2
chance to get in the playoffs as a broken collar bone when he TX ........................................ 1 - 3
they have four games to play; one 
with the Delts, Wednesday. A 
PKA victory would throw the 
league into a two way tie between
dived for a pass. He is now resting Newman ............................ 1-4
comfortably in Shadyside Hospital. TDP 0-3
The Grads, hampered by rheum- j Skibo
atism and KS, but mostly by KS, SAE ....................................... 5 - 0
ATO “A” and DTD. Then, if PKA ! bowed out of the Kiltie League PK "A” ................................ - o
could win their remaining three j race when they lost to KS, 30-12. DU ...................................... 1-2
contests, they would also be tied The Clyde St. A.C. completed their BSR ..................................... 1-2
for the league lead. However, a | season undefeated. 6-0, and be- ATO -B" ........................... 0 - 3
three way tie seems unlikely, j came the Kiltie League cham- ASCE..............................*... 0-3
Laughery’s passing should be j pions. The Grads finished with a Static Charges ................... 0-4
enough to defeat PKA and end j 4_2 mark, defeating Citcom 26-20 Kiltie
the Tartan League race with the in their other game last week. KS .......................................... (J - 0
Delts emerging victorious. I SN, who trounced BTP 35-13. is SN ........................................1 \ - 1
SAE and PK “A” Meet ; encamped in second place with a Grads...................................... 4 - 2
Mike Fedor and SAE proved a 4-1 record. They have one game BTP ...................................... 1 - 3
little too much for DU last Thurs- , to play, with PK “B” and should Citcom .................................. 1-4
day, copping an 18-13 decision, win easily. However, if SN should PK “B" ............................... 0 - 2
This loss eliminates DU from the , lose, they would be tied with the EE ME ................................ 0 - 4

---------------------------------------------------

Gamma: Ivy Hill, Nan- 
Janice Redshaw, Mary 
Svelyn Alessio, Stepha-
bure ¡yfaSMfcl
It's a psychological fact: Pleasure helps
your disposition. If you're a smoker, 
remember — more people get more 
pure pleasure from Camels than 
from any other cigarette I
No other cigarette is 
so rich-tosting, yet so mild!
When you’re the star of the play,
The Big Man of the Day,
You deserve a bouquet—have a CAMEL!
B. i, RvhIhMmb., WlnM-M«. N.«
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottiine Co., Pittsburgh 10, P».
ENGINEERING THEATER
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BY
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto­
motive Engineers in Conjunc­tion with AIEE & AICHE
Page I—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, Octobet 25. 1955-----------------------------------------------------i?
nie Mackay, Linda Effrat, Hannah 
Oppenheimer, Joanne Hurley, Al­
ma McCloud, Velma Fritsch, Eil­
een Landay, Rebecca Swain, Sue. 
Gordon, Nancy Gardner, Irene 
Baird, Carol Sechler, Beverly 
Koehler, Eva Spears, Patricia 
Mitchell, Anne Elder, Patricia 
Briggs, Margaret Vetter.
Tau Beta Pi: Glenn Henrick- 
sen, Ivars Melngailis, Richard 
Eppler, Allan Zuckerwar, John)) 
Bodoia, John * Dougherty, Bill 
Minkler, Dave Hummer, John 
Drgon, Charles Schaul, Earl Gose, 
Wes Folsom, Tom Schriempf, 
Jere Hohmann, Bob Shields, Bill 
Zakowicz, Clarence Schmidt.
The individual awards were 
made to the following: Tau Delta 
Phi, the Council of Fraternity 
Presidents Scholarship Cup; Delta 
Delta Delta, the Pittsburgh Pan- 
hellenic Association Scholarship 
Cup and the Junior Panhellenic 
Council Trophy; Nina Gearhart, 
Mortar Board Award; Robert Mar­
ik, Tau Beta Pi Freshman Award; 
and Aubrey Amey, Pi Delta Ep­
silon Award.
Also, Delta Skull presented the 
Senior Plaque which is to be plac­
ed in the floor of Administration 
Hall.
Names of those called by Phi 
Kappa Phi were unavailable.
Over The
By Joseph A. Szewc
In one of our public services, we 
bring to you a wondrous recipe 
designed for the intelligent We 
gay this because the average stu­
dent does not need one, but rather 
because the average student, ex­
cept on rare occasions, flunks out 
without a use of a “Recipe for 
Defective Study.”
The ingredients:
1 lab report due.
4 very large, oversized textbooks 
usually found at exorbitant prices 
in the book store.
3 disgustingly short hours.
10 cups of repulsively strong 
coffee.
1 recording of the Kiltie Band’s 
Bagpipe Corps.
1 vintage joke.* * *
Procedure:
Blend books and hours with a 
pinch of good intentions. Result: 
One pair of bloodshot eyes. Com­
bine nervous friend and sad joke 
to change the flavor of the eve­
ning. Season sparcely with a dash 
of laughter (for good will pur­
poses.) For zest add the haunting 
strains of the bagpipe corps. The 
atmosphere now reeks with flared 
tempers and shattered nerves. 
Now. add one fleeing mouse. 
Follow with a hearty mouse hunt 
with umbrellas, brooms, and 
bloodhounds. Resume the learn­
ing process. Calculate the Fisher­
ian equations of exchange. Spill 
coffee liberally over the lab report.
Result: One babbling idiot com­
plete with messed hair and torn 
Marlon Brando “T” shirt. (Any 
resemblance to persons living or 
dead is purely due to your low 
opinion of your roommate).* * *
A new snack bar has opened in 
Donner Hall. Believe it or not the 
coffee is strong, the ingredients in 
the sandwiches are fresh and 
plentiful, and the service as 
prompt as can be expected from 
two men. A non-profit service of 
Men’s Dorm Council, the prices of 
the snack bar on the average are 
lower than Skibo. I don’t know 
whether you can compare the two 
on any economic level and get a
true picture of the organizations. 
Anyhow, it’s about time the stu- ! 
dents had something capable of 
competing with the corner drug
store.* * *
A catastrophe took place at 
Morewood Gardens on Saturday 
night when the Morewood phones 
went dead. Girls were waiting in 
their respective rooms anticipat­
ing the call of gallant gentlemen 
to escort them to the dance and 
none came. In the lobby, men 
rushed hither and thither to the 
i pay booths to call a number they 
didn’t remember. Confusion reign­
ed and tempus fugited.* * *
This was bad, 'out ‘not half as 
bad as what happened to WEDO 
on Saturday afternoon. It was 
nearly the end of the first half 
and Tech was on Temple’s one 
yard line about to score a touch­
down when the WEDO’s trans­
mitter went dead. Somebody had 
cut the electricity to the radio 
booth and silenced the “Voice of 
McKeespoi't.’ When the power was 
finally restored half-time festiv­
ities were well underway. Things 
preceded normally after a recap 
had been given.* * *
Little quickies: The above reci­
pe was a dormtion of Gene James. 
Does anyone else have anything 
he would like to contribute? 
Speaking of radio stations, what 
happened to WRCT’s Homecoming 
skit? Reliable sources say a lack 
of cooperation and a general 
“chickening-out” of the people in 
the skit are the reasons for the 
last minute cancellation of the 
publicity stunt . . .
Limerick of the week:
A daring young salesman of Leeds. 
Rashly swalloived six packets of 
seeds.
In a month, silly ass,
He was covered with grass 
And he couldn’t sit down for the 
weeds.
... or you may like this one? 
Take your choice.
There was an old sculptor named 
Phidias,
Whose knowledge of art was in­
vidious
He carved Aphrodite 
Without any nightie—
Which startled the purely fastidi­
ous.
Dance—
[Continued from page IJ 
display. Casey was depicted run­
ning his trainload of alumni 
dressed as angels to the promised 
land. A red-devil Temple barred 
the track, but Casey drove his 
weary band to the pearly gates.
The theme for fraternity deco­
ration- this year was Yankee 
Yarns. It was requneo that each 
display integrate a welcome • to 
alumni and beating Temple. The 
entries were judged by three per­
sons having no connection with 
the participating groups Other 
Yankee displays were “Pecos Bill”, 
“John Paul Jones”, “Blackbeard”, 
“Joe Magerac”, “Rip Van Winkle”, 
“The Great Train Robbery,” 
“Moby Dick,” and “Showboat”.
Varsity Varieties
Varsities Varieties, the annual 
Homecoming competition for cam­
pus sororities, brought Yankee 
Yarns to life. Copping first place 
was Delta Delta Delta, dut of 
rural American they brought the 
Corner Grocery Store under the 
title “Sudsational” which showed 
various soaps and detergents 
coming to life after the store was 
closed for the night.
Second place cup was awarded 
to Alpha Epsilon Phi for the 
second consecutive year for their 
skit titled “King of the Spangled 
Wilderness” and showed the de­
velopment of CIT and Pittsburgh 
and featured Andrew Carnegie, 
Jr. Third place trophy went to 
Kappa Kappa Gamma for their 
enactment of a witchcraft trial in 
Salem, Massachusetts.
Other Yankee Yarns told were 
“The Legend of Sleepy Hollow”, 
“Moonshine Madness”, “The Last 
Bet” and the story of Ponce de 
Leon.
Pledge Class Cheer
For the second consecutive 
year, Sigma Nu fraternity tri­
umphed in the pledge class cheer 
competition. Traditionally, frat­
ernity pledges compete at the 
Friday night pep rally by pre­
senting original cheers. This year 
the Rally featured Rege Cordic, 
popular Pittsburgh radio person­
ality.
Sunday afternoon open house 
at Morewood Gardens for alumni 
and students closed the 1955 
Homecoming celebration.
Carnegie Day
[Continued jrom page 2]
Rodgers and Hammerstein.
The calls to several honoraries 
included:
Alpha Phi Omega: Louis Allabut, 
George Anderson, Wade Biggs, 
Ralph Humphrey, Eugene James, 
Sherwin Lovett, John Philbrick, 
Paul Reo, John Riedmaier, Robert 
Rose, William Shannon, Phillip 
Stein, Wilfred Sudekum, Ernest 
Weinhold.
Omicron Delta Kappa: Joe Red­
ding, Ron Draper, Bill Zakowicz, 
George Lang.
Pi Tau Sigma: Jacob Belkin, 
Walter Christensen, James McCul- 
lam, Louis Raymond, Victor Oburg, 
Bartley Osborne, Charles Seaman, 
Norman Smilek, John Herbert, 
David Stea, William Richardson.
Eta Kappa Nu: Arthur Hurst, Jo­
seph Redding, George Reddam, 
Roy Voshell, Richard Aiken, Sam 
Craig, Robert Detig, Tom Harri­
son, Robert RusselJ
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia: Ronnie 
Reich, Jim Hawkins, Chester De- 
Luca, Bill Robson, Dave Perla- 
kowski, Vince Sanzotti, Dom Ven- 
turella, Mike Callara, Glen Zock- 
oll, Robert Bearick, Jerry Man- 
olas, Burke Caldwell.
Pi Delta Epsilon: Peter Urbach, 
Joan Murphy, Claire Lawler, Joe 
Szewc, John Begovich, Clarence 
Schmidt, Ted Hatch, Ray Parsick, 
Tom Porsching, Dick Oden, Dick 
Fox, Lou Salvador, Arnold Was- 
serman, Jon Saxe, Eugene Burke, 
Jim Plugge, Mary Rudy, Jim Boyd, 
John Alexander.
Phi Tau Gamma: 
cy Bloom,
McClure, Evelyn
