VOL- 30. NO. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29; 1935
Carnegie Host 
To Scientists 
Of District
Hold Organization IMeet 
for Allegheny Section
Of S. P. E. E
VOL-3O0- .N55CACR 
RENGRNI ASTUCIFGA
Program Includes Addresses 
By Prominent Industrial. 
Educational Leaders
Carnegie will act as host to 
many of the leading scientists, and 
engineers in the. tri-state district 
at Ibe organization meeting oi the 
Allegheny section of the Society 
¿or tbe Promotion of Engineering 
iEducation. This meeting will be 
held in Pittsburgh on Novej 
8 and 9.
The colleges 
sponsoring the 
meeting are .Carnegie,.. Uni­
versity of Pitts­burgh. Penn State, Bucknell, and University of West Vir­ginia. Professor
Cully, hekd of
Drawing, is In 
, Watkins charge of rangement.> meeting will open formally a luncheon at the University at which Dr. Chorlos Watkins, stltog president oî Carnegie, will tie host to the'visiting scientists. Following the luncheon à abort business meeting will be held, and
laent industrial ' and " 'educational leaders. The meeting will be open lo faculty members of ,¿11 colleges
Carnegie studeatB are In- tflwl to attend.
The topic of the Friday after- awrn meeting will be “The Work, of lie Engineers’ Council for Pr< .fessiooal Development/’ • This o. “»tUaUon Has '^s :i.ts^alm::the_im-:' fr<nemerit of the' educational'and tirolmlonal standards of: the ' en­gineering profession. The progress nttfe-lA ifte' ’päkt“‘several years' will be discussed by General B- I. Rees, vlcc president of the Amer­ican Telephone and " Telegraph
Ing at Penn State; and ProfeBBor W. W. Hodge of the West Virginia W. W. Hodge of the University, of West Virginia will speak on the “Present Stains of State Liscensing of Engineers.” Dr. W. E. Wicken- den, President of the Case School o( Applied Science, will duscuss ’The Post-College-'Training ¦ Peri- o4.'’
Attend Little Theater
At 6:30 the visiting educators *111 join with the faculty of the College of Engineering in a dinner at the Carnegie Inn. The speaker *111 be Howard ' N. -Eavenson, Chairman of the' Ailnlng Advisory ward of Gnrnfcgie. - ¡After the din-' ner the group will adjourn to the Ultle Theater to see “Antony and Cleopatra.” •'. .
T,he Saturday morning meeting
Ideas between the represerita- Hfes of the different colleges. The "“‘•’¦¦a; • topic oi ‘these tteeltnge l)e "To mat Extent Are Re- Developments in Engineering fields Included in Preaent-Day >t Study?" The aeries of . . nferences will be organ- wed about the interests of the fol- «R'iii.5 departments: Electrical“Jfineering and Physics, Chemical »«mg and Metallurgical Engineer­'s, Mechanical Engineering, Me- 'lanics and Civil' Engineering, commercial and industrial Eugi- werlng and Shops, Engineering Ex- English and Engineering
Seniors Granted 
Picture Discount
Appointments Must BeMade 
Before December . 1
'^'reduction of BO cents in the 
? th.® 1935-36 Thistle will be tain, t0 51,1 seniors who make ap- Pf’ » - £s?-;the!r pictures --Iw~ * December l. Keith Me- 
tom. j11 37 ’ editor-in-chief,' an-^iHiced yesterday. This, reduction 
elfin ?1 because :of a discount r«v- - e Canton Engraving co. i p.cture» in before December -.nee the Thistle willappear 
u.«. .e?11,or date than usual.” 'Mr. ¿Cutcheoa said, : “It is -almost 
Ben'« - that al1 Picture appoint- he made before-the desd- 
-iii - -18 -a^monti-ewajV!.-holography this year is being 
a pj. . v,e Mei-tn Ballban Studios 'Ulti Avenue. The studio co* only achool annual work. At 
iev V ar« also at work on Picturea for the Pitt year rnjv. :lcl-ureB in the new book 
he ^ai1 in the past and
'Wle'ups win be smaller. •- ^PPointmenis: for the', senior pic- 
W<w ' ¦' hnv • noon1 atjp^m9gieS.chrlrtlitoiAB»ciation
Executive Board Vot es 
Trial Chang e in Date 
Oi Christmas Mecess
CHAPEL SPEAKER
Second Chapel 
Held in Little 
Theatre Today
Dr; Morledge to Speak; 
Sororities Sponsor 
Day’s Services •
Dr. J. S. Morledge, a graduate of 
Princeton, and pastor of tbe Sixth 
Presbyterian church, will address 
the students at the second chapel 
service of the year today, 
service will be held at 11:30 In the 
Little Theater io the College of 
Fine Arts. r
In addition to Dr. Morledgé1 dd[irèae(; the:(atudent body will bs énterCàine'd^y^a-:.TOUBÌcaljprdgràia .under the- dìrection of -the OOepart-. ment of HY,F0P . Florence Ingram, ’38, will render, a' violin solo ana Clyde-English-,-'Sfi, wlll-play lection on the organ.
- Today’s chapel is sponsored by the intersorority council of which Maude Bowers, ’36. Gamma Gamma Gamma, is president.
Dr. Morledge Is well known to many' of the students on campus,
To Enhance 
Arts F oyer
Students Designs Models 
To Fill Wall Niches
thè 'main foyer of the College of
The contest calls for original iketches' at a given scale. The con- testants. fcav*. the privJlejr* of. select Ing the particular Art to be honored lo the development and execution of the final model.'Jury judgment on this series is called for the latter part of Nov.
series of___________ -ed by the-Depart­ment of Sculpture calling for origin­al solutions of a sculptural and arch­itectural nature for Pittsburgh loca­tion which at tho-prcsent time, are void of such- enrichment. For tbe students who participate, they offer n opportunity for competition.The problems win call for the vis­ualization and designing of memor- jais, statues, monumental groups, fountains, and medals for specific local placement and usage. Stu­dents vrlll be given four weeks in which to develop their ideas, work out preliminary sketches and pro­duce'final scale models " *to tlie jury of Award.Members of tlie Jury which Judge the models submitted forthe 
firfcl'in'obfeiw nlng, October
•WidneedcF____________ include ElmerStephan. Director of Art of the Pittsburgh Public SchooIs.'^Stanley Roush and' Alexander Sbarove, architects, and Frank Aretz and 
Frank Vlttor. sculptora.
Council Recommendation 
Receives Approval; 
Benefits Many
DATES ARE DEC; 22 
TO JAN. 5 INCLUSIVE
Permanane? of Experiment 
Depends Upon Success 
Of Trial Period
Proposed' changes' In thé Christ­
mas vacation dates were stamped 
official last Wednesday morning by 
action of the Executive board. Act­
ing on the recommendation of Stu­
dent Council the Board voted tc 
grant, "experimentally for 1935-36/ 
Council’s petition that Chrletmat 
recess begin on December 22 ant 
continue through January 6..
According to Dean A. W. Tarbell, 
secretary of the Executive Board, 
the revised holidy period “means 
that the schedule of classes, day, 
evening, and parl-time, will con 
tinue through Saturday, Decembei 
21; also that classes will resume 
at . 8:30 Monday morning, Janu­
ary 6."Benefits Majority.
Previous to the Board’s recent 
action, the official calendar an­
nounced the dates as being. Decem­
ber 19 to January 1 inclusive. Stu­
dent Council, however, acting fa­
vorably on a petition by members 
of the student body, recommended 
that the dates be changed because 
of the benefit that would result to 
the majority of the students.
JDean .R. M. Ihrlg, in an interview, explained that the Christmas change Is official only for this year, as. lt Is- somewhat experimental In nature. The subject will have to be.; brought up again when the calendar Is being made up for next year.- That the Board wishes tb Rtudy the .effect .of-the .change: baJ: .¡tKë ChrlStifias employment sUua*'r tlon. Dean lhrlg gave as Its reason for "branding the legislation "experl-aental.” .. ''.....................
Council Is Pleased
Student Council President Addl- on L. Gilmore wets “highly pleased'* that .the Executive Board saw fit to place its stamp of ap­proval on the Council petition. "We, the Student Council, as the elected representatives of the stu­dent bodÿ, wish to take such ac­tion that will benefit the greatest
a changed Christmas recess and that those who ..wished ’ to obtain work represented a small minority, the recommendation was made,” said Mr. Gilmore. Robert P. Grein- tr, also a member of Student Coun- :11, expressed' himself as being 'extremely gratified that such an idvantageoùs r vision” had been
Only one student.(Whò did notap- •Ove of the change' was Inter­viewed last week. “i don't like the idea. It will cause an inconven­ient change In the ptana for Christ- s which I have already made.’’— Scott Charles '36. Other stu- Walter AdiItfits my plans very well.” Jack Gardner '87, "I Ireaytily indorse' th« change. Now I won’t have to cut after Christmas,” and Al Schwam
needed boning."
BAND LEADERMilitary Men 
Select Hon. 
Cadet Officers
Present Commissions 
At Annual Ball 
November 8
Hallowe’en 
Spirit Rules 
Eng. Dance:
“Town Tattlers'5 to Play;; 
Surprises Promised 
In Entertainment
Saturday, November 2, will find 
tbe Engineer’s Senate holding thejk 
big dance o'f the year. This dap'ce 
will be an all school dance, with 
the setting In Thistle Kali. 
Hallowe’en mood will predominate, 
and all kinds of surprises la .the 
line of - entertainin' 
pected. ...
. The committee, consisting of 
three members of:the Senate: Rob-, 
ert Greiner "36, chairman; Wlillaih 
Holiday ’36, and Lester Van'Vei; 
kehburgh ’36, has. obtained Bill Lis- 
Roy and his. Town Tattlers for the; 
dance; This orchestra has been 
ipletely organized for nine 
years. ' They feature . Glee Club 
singing with' epécial -arrangements. 
byythe leader.-BllVLeRo^f 
'ganlzationisw^il'Tcnown 
leges of western Pennsylvania-arid'
rrargemento.^:
fissa
the University of .Pittsburgh^
e committee hopes that this, dance will aid In reviving the 0B,P tom of giving dance programs. Pa­trons forthe dance are': Miss Mary WatBon Green, dean of women. Professor Glendlnnlng-Keeble; Dr.
been announced: -Mr. and Mrs. ence H. Miner, Mr. and Mrs. Rollln V. DavJs, Mr. and Mrs. Kent D. Shaeffer, Major and Mrs. Charles B. Stanton, Mr. and Mrs., Robert D. Gregg, Mr. .and Mrs. R. W. Cole- and Mr. and--Mrs., ..John' C.
Médical Aid Systems To Be Debated Today
There will be a regular meeting 
of the C. I.‘ T. Debating Union to- 
iy;at 11:30 In 'Room.l31C, Tndus- 
lee 'Hall. The subject for debate 
Rèïolveii-. . "That - the several 
states should' enact legislation pro- 
idlng for a system of complete 
icdical service avalJablc to all cit- 
setis at public expense.” ,
MAKY WËTTACH 
IS, NAMED COLONEL
Tartans Down Purdue 
In Brilliant Battle
CO-ED COLONEL
Margaret Shuhs;, Mary Lord 
Are Majors; Company 
Captains Chosen
> .Mary Wettach has been nnmed 
Honorary Cadet Colonel of the R. 
0.;.',T. C. . Receiving nn 
than any of the other 24 nominees 
jn lust Tuesday's election, Miss 
.Wettach is tbe choice of the Mil­
itary Department Cor the highest 
houors It is nble to bestow upon a 
woman student.
v In the • same election two Hon­orary Cadet MajorB and six Hon­orary Cadet Captains were also .named. Margaret Shultz '3(> selected ae Honorary Cadet Mojor for the first, batalllon, aud Mi Lord '36 will hold the same posltioi
pnny B; Marjorie Green ’36, com­pany C; Henrietta DeHaven .’30, company D; Nancy Chancellor ’36, company E; and Maud Bowers ’3fi. impany F. 'When asked to comment on .her -appointment Colonel Wettach said, 'It ie difficult to express my hap- >vl9e. ' Naturally I
and i sincerely thank all the boys of. the R. 0:. T. C." Cadet Colonel -Jack E. McKee ’36 said; “The Hon- ary. Cadet Officers thiB year
not .know. 'In this year1 Uon.only the advanced mei glyen. a vote, , and .. consenuently they-yoted.for, the candidate of 
bwn'. cliobaing ,Instead' of ’ one ^mended byi.aq^lWtioRfiaty;:
The Honorary Cádet Officers will
place ,November 6 In Thistle Hall.
Women to Hold 
Tea Preliminary 
To Junior Prom
Today, from 4 o’clock until 5:30, 
tlie Junior class of Margaret Morrl- 
in collaboration with -the wo­
of the junior class of College 
of Fine Arts, will hold a tea in 
Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall.¦ The purpose of the tea Is to get both , junlor^classes well.' organized so that plane for the Women’s Junior prom, may be started. Mar­garet Fitzgerald; vice president' of the Junuir class of Margaret Morvl-
Fihe Arts, will act as co-chairmen of- the Junior prom committee. At. the tea they will announce the re- -of' thu conimittGe;• • -iCattf: erine' Schreibeis, treasurer of the junior class in Margaret' Morrison, will announce tlie method of pay: ing for the tickets in several in­stallments.
Mary Wettaeh ’36. who has heon 
selected by the Military Depart 
ss.'Honoary Cadet Colonel.
E,C.A. Holds 
First Seminar
Speeches by Prominent 
Worm n Are Features
Better and Safer Aeroplanes’ Purpose 
Of Experiments Being Conducted in Lab.
- Tartan Positions 
Open to Soph Men
re several vacan- the Tartan staff e open to Sopho-These pos.. 
offer a good chance for ad vancement and-a. chance tc earn some money in the sen 
vear.Any whoÄU, --------------interested
in this work should report to the Twtan<i.o51c«--Friday 
Afternoon or evening. ____
New Type of Aeroplane 
Wing Is Developed 
By H. R, Tucker -
'Better and safer aeroplanes is 
a purpose,’; explained Harrison 
R. Tucker, Director of Roseai 
the Rose Aviation Corporation of 
York, as he described 
work -whlcU is now in progress in 
the Aeronautical Laboratory under 
his direction.' Mr. Tucker Is ' prl1 
marlly iint«Testea in "th« inye^liga- tlon of multiple slot air foils,' using the wind tunnel for his expert:
practically double the speed, range of the plane.- thefeby .permitting higher top speeds'and lower landr Ing speeds. In other words, by Im­proving the efficiency ,.of . a • wing, we can take off more.qulckly. fly faster while-we^are in-^he -air.- -and land more slowly and snfely in a smaller space. Such characterlst- Iesirable In an aero- vlce-.or
in PeansyJvanb»--'. Investigations inel are also-hein«----------improved* * control- ¦ devldes ¦¦ ¦Wnich will permit more positive control of air- craft under all-flight'conditions.
NEW WING BEING DEVELOPED HERE
is now being develop« olurmi-wtilt« tmtv; m, by action of the wind
of control will not operale satisfac­torily at low flying, speeds.".Mr. Tucker, when-his present
ligtt-plane; which .will be wlthont sacrificing- low "landing speed.;, and - will also., be as: fool-
has been ln progress for . the Iaat tbree years.-: Previous to hls: atTlv- aìhere.i Wr..Tuclf $r.,waa. in. .Neva -York carryingiforward; his -investi­gations at Nev .York- University. The. Rose Corporation: with which 
Mr.Tucker
Mrs. Grace L. Elliott, w member 
of the National Board of Young 
Wpmon's Christian Associations, 
wiil lead a discussion on “Living 
Crsotlyoly in the Modern World," 
first Intercollegiate seminar 
of the year to b.e held, on the .Car­
negie Campus. Students from the 
University of Pittsburgh and tl\e 
Pennsylvania College for Women •tnlned hy the Men’en's'
vember 5.Elliot's discussion will con­cern friendships between men and ; “ " fraternity and aororlty loy­alties, student • faculty relation­ships, and family loyalties. Mrs.
Ithin us?” “Why do we fail do what we want to do??’ “How should- we deal wllh the ‘blues’?” and “How can our fullest possibili-
Adolesithe Dcpartmeni >.)' Social Work at Carnegie; D, sii|.iii<.mentary'read-
Registration, and !l'<e first half of
eminar, which will continue until 9:00.Louise Meixner ’36, of Carnegie, is general chairman of ihe commit­tee in charge of Llie.seminar. Other members are:- Carol Ford of tlie Pennsylvania College for Womeo, Noi:a"Monl(s,' of tlie University df- Pittsburgh, and Robert Coblentz ’36, president of the Men's Chris; tian Association of Carnegie.
Orville Fay Wins 
Honorary Award 
Of Pi Tau Sigma
¦¦ Pi Tau Sigma, honorary Mechan­ical Engineering fraternity and', a member of thev American Society of Mechanical Engineering
ing- highest in his class. - It is-of* fered to stimulato the interests of the freshmen In the field of[ Me- ¦uhav\i»\. Engftrasrfttg: Th«--award' this vear goes to. Orville Craig Fay who has mainatlned an .average of 3.63 for his freshman -year. Honor­able mention goes to Sam Gioi dnii who held , an average of 3.026 ae a freshman last year.
ihe American Society of Meehan- 
on Tuesday;' October 29, in1^Room
Rosenthal Scores on Matelan’s Pa6s as Purdue Faile 
To Solve Inspired Plaid Offen6e; Matelan, 
Spisak Star in Turning Back Two Drives
By Johnny Weinberg
Upsetting all the smart money, Carnegie’b fighting football 
t*an\ shocked a’ crowd of 20,000 homecomere in Lafayette last 
Snturday when they decisively beat the Purdue Boilermakers, 
7-0..
Hardly concedcd n chance even by their own ooach who& 
main objective was to fecep the score down, the Plaid set out 
with a determined effort to make good—rond they did A tlurty- 
vnrd pass from Mutelnn which was caught by Qene Rosenthal,
¿hot the Skibos up'to glorious heights. • ........>s ,'.
Gene received the ball over tlio heudB of a surprised Purdiio 'sec*; , ondary.and started olt at full spee^: for that precious goal line. Tom McGannon the Boilermaker anfety man was tho oply one: between Ro-: senthal nnd hls objeotlve. • It . ap-
Greek Life 
Summarized 
In Booklet
Interfraternity Council 
Distribu tes Copies 
To All Plebes
Explaining to tho parents of 
freshmen' what fraternities mean 
iu tho campusillfo of the sLudentn, 
the new . Intorfraternlty booklet 
\vill nppenr in approximately two 
weeks. ' According to Edltor-ln- 
chlcf Alvin Gursha, the phaiuplet 
will he. dedicated to the freshman 
class aiid will contain letters of In­
troduction from Actlng-preklont 
Charles Watkins and Dean A. W. 
Tarbell. \;
The booklet will be different in style from the one published last being. somewhat larger In size patterned, along' the: lines of the Carnegie.. Magazine. Doth In­terior and exterior views of tho fra­ternity hha^ti..V|iin U%.bhowu with a brief wrlteup!-:;of'_each fraternity.'
Copies; of rtheipamphlet will .be given;-to all'freshmen and In add!<
puvpQSO of- this • year’s- hook-. is te familiarize the-parents-of-prospec* tlve ruehees-with1 the.phases of fra­ternity life,! including •'the cost : of being a, member. Tables of sam­ple ilaca will be . given.' .
“Why Join a. fraternity?’’ and “Fioternity activity In all fields:’ the titles, of two articles which will appear In the new issue.
Included on the staff which 1a responsible '. for publishing
manager; editorial. board: Irving-
Two Trustees 
GhosenOct. 15
Former President Baker 
Gets Appointment
Institute of Technology ,nt ing of the board on October 15. - Dr. Baker, who recently 'resign
R. A. Franks; Mr. Lehman will suc­ceed his brother, the late Albert C. Lehman, who died last March* At present, Dr. Baker is in retirement, convalescing from his vecent Ill­ness,. but he hopes lo return to ac­tive duty In the near future.Mr. Lehman wa'B born and rear­ed- in Pittsburgh. He was educated at local elementary and secondary schools,-completing his formal.ed­ucation at the Park Institute. Since that :tlme. he has become. Increas­ingly-Prominent.. in .IndustrW. af*. fairs. In March; 1935, upon the death of.his.brother Albert C. Leh­man, he succeeded to the presi­dency of the Blaw-Knox Steel Com- rany, having served up to. thatinbervice presldent.and of the board of trustees.» At'Pn ent he is also director of numer­ous corporations and banks.Mr.vLehman has always .been In* terested '.in social and - philan­thropic work. . He., was one of the 'founders 'bi the Tederatlbn. of ITew- islt. Philanthropies and a past di-
of the Pennsylvania. Public. Chan­ties and the. Pittsburgh Housing •Association.
C.W.C.A. Will Hold 
Dinner for Freshmen
A dinner will be given by the .C. W. C- A. tomorrow at five-thirty in Recreation hall, in Margaret Morri-
toppled Rosenthal on the Purduo lC-yard line but the Carnegie .half« baok stumbled, regained his-broken--. stride and' continued on .over the goal line standing, up. Spieqtfs perfoot plaoemont .i accounted for the extra polnt. . .
The Sklbos dominated thO1 game In tho first qunrtor,.voat hnoA-oirtho. hnunchos and watched-» -Purduo- shoot an unsuccessful bolt In: thd second nnd third, periods; nnd then ^ stopped hack Into the ploture. in the last quarter and remained .that •. way until the final, gun.
parting out like a house-ailre,.: the Plaid missed a score 1n the first tow mlnuteB ot.plny by a maTRln Inches. After an--exchange
quick kick by Charley. Splsak^-Bent. the hall from his .own 2B 'marker;to tho Purdua E-yard line, t The .boiler- maker's roturn lclck curried to tho . mld-fleld area and wlth a. series quick flat passesj Spisak to Bowser :;: 
(Continued from Pag» Threel ,
Election Heidi 
By Freshmes1
14 Officers Are Cboseai 
To Lead Activities'
. Fourteen-¦freshmen-were elecled': 
to class offices in the three col-' 
leges for the current year in .-last ' 
Tuesdays elections. As a result pf^. 
tbe Bpcclal election In Margaret-.. 
Morrison; Clara Hall 29L elected : senate representative of .the senior ., class to succeed Sara Crlllman,-' who has resigned.Thro© prealtjonlp. .vice pr§^dents, •/¿' secretaries, and treasurers, were^-:. chosen.: while. Margaret:- MorriBon1' - freshmen elected.. in addition.- a-r, soimte representative, and a social, chairman. .A plurality..rather than a major- , ity. of votes cast, constituted a:can-: . (11 date’s election. According to the 
tellers, the voting-v?ry closed - In' most cases ' 1 -.. The newly-elected ofacers are as*, follows: In the. College. of :EBgl*vjnoerlng: president. Harvev t NSis: ' vice president, WlUiam A. Smith*, -, secretary. Richard N. Craig;, tree**: Edward McCarthy. - In: tbe College of Fine Arts: presldeni^Maxwell Lick: Jr.: vice president.:- E. Fry: secretnry. jane' S^ai- ^ : treasurer. bdWard Rosenth&ll;.v:^ Margaret Morrison' Carneglef/' College: president, Eleanor Bright;'.*:: vice president. Nancy. ' McKenua:u..v secretary.. Margery • McCay: senate epresentatlvd. Betty..Stevene: <:HO*.:<.. clal chairman.. Ruth • Brahtner;.- ; eaeurer. Bettv Niedhamner.i'Those officcrG : will •••siiperviBOrv.-'; class' activities - in their- respectiy© :hoolR. and- wll; .constitute the..-" jmmittee in: change of- arrange-1?? enls for tbe Freshman All-Car-— necie Dance. '. . - •
Russia Theme Of is 
Citmas Club Talk
Members Uear Illustrated 
Lccture by Dr. Frocbt
Opening its lv36-36 season, ithe .’;
beginning of tbe meeting;.'The ........... ......be an ........Max FrochL Department of .Me- cbanlcs. . Dr. -.Frocht,'- .who ..will;: speak on his impressions ot.Russl^spent :some • time; - in •‘¿hat; country.] last sumiper.i .^Motion pictures jiolA .... Russian life taken ou:his -I-,200 trip through;, the-country -are tofbeg:^
the Citmas club roster. --
es during the scbool. year^hfB;^ n on the campus for a numb^fj'ii... i/eara. Its purpose- is .to.’foBtebig._good. - fellowship be tweenthe ulty and: student:members,On the: coxnmittee- iihlch jlsj li^ji.s- 
rbarw of the meetings Jtor 1malnder 1 of- the'- yeto. :v .C.^-Wv.wLarkin. J. C-- Jeffrlee^ Ri A'.» i*isher,^ij E-- G- Olds. C: Overend. Ii'rH. I let R. V Davis, and CGI neUs

---------------------------------------------------

MS'
¡Be In Style; 
Get Welfare 
¡Feather iNow
I '
'They Identify Community 
Fund Contributors 
On Campus
FACULTY RETURNS 
ALREADY MOUNTING
Carnegie Drive Concludes 
Tuesday—$1 Individual 
¦:. ? ¦ Goal is Sought
A feather in your hat is going to : be quite the thing at Tech during _ this ¦¦week and ..next, for. the feeth-
Tartan to PublishAlumni News Page
___ it with the BUS of Car­negie Tartan news of alumni and alumni affairs will be published monthly in an alumni page which '* ippear in The Tortnn on No- er 12, December 16, January 14, February 18, March 10, April 7, May 6, and May 26.
This i
ni news, at regular in­tervals. TbeiTartan is mailed to all paid menibers of Alumni As­sociation end alumni should keep
Students will 'be contacted volunteer .workers from the three colleges. "Deltere urging their sup* port have been sent to'all fraterni­ties by Richard W. Hammond '36, ',«tudqqt head of the Community ¦Fuad move at Carnegie Tech.
Faculty' returns are .already inoliniing. ah'd it is hoped that stu­dent cooperation wlU be equally whole-hearted.
'Report meeting for.workers will beh<?ld at the'Faculty room in Cur- ijegie inn today end Thursday at ii: 30-1:30. Workers may buy their lunch at the cafeteria and eat up- . etalre at the meeting.
¡ vCwV S. Coier, mauager, Educa- . 'tlooal Department of the Westing- Jiouse Electrical and Manufacturing ;Company,'"will speak at the meet­ing today. On Thursday the speak­er Will be Prank J. Chesterman,1 v^ce.presldent and General Manager of the Pittsburgh Bell Telephone.
' ••By contributing to the Commun itv. Fund, students will aid the . Christian Association as well as the ¦ 8St-organizations represented by the: Fund. The various affairs . eponsoTod by the Christian Associa­tion include the Thanksgiving and V Christmas meals-for students stay- ing at achool over the holidays, the -v fi:£8hm?n-'.dlnner and get-together,1' nt>Vi- the annual Cook Forest trip; •‘ : > The work performed by the mem-- :i^er.Organizations'of the Fund Is .--humane and vitally necessary. £'hi£Oarnegie’8 drive ends on Novem­ber 6. at which time It Is hoped that our quota of $6,000 will have ; been ^ reached and surpassed. An individual goal or one dollar per ^student has been set by workers,
Aeronauticals
Tour Plants
Seniors Inspect Ohip 
Aircraft Factories
live the regular weekly issues of the paper but once each month te Alumni Federation will have page of its own.
We hope that all alumni will co­operate in making this page a suc­cess, Any information concerning of Carnegie Tech will be welcome and suggestions for the improvement of the new page in The Tartan will be appreciated. All alumni should work for the sue- of the Federation.
CLARENCE OVEREND, Alumni Executive Secretary.
Approximately. 16_ students of• tbe'‘D^^tment.,-.Dfrr'; Aeronautic?, rwiII leave next, Tuesday on an in- , spectlon trip of Ohio aircraft plants unflec the supervision of Professor Tliorp. •,-v The purpose is to acquaint the ; students • with work done, in the . .aeronautical research laboratories, - ‘¿pd to show themthe various man- .Viifactiirlng and - .engineering pro' .^:jc§Bses entering'into' the'design and •conatruction of airplanes.:;i;V>;The flrflt day, Wednesday, will be • ¡spent visiting the Research and Ex- ^•¦perimental Departi **
tc.Obio:“-The Overhaul and. Mainten-• •¦ance Air Depot at Falrfleld, Ohio,. . and the Waco Aircraftt Company atTroy, 'Ohio, will be inspected later r.-iàV thé,; day; the Waco Alrcrafi Company builds many of the small ¦¦ commercial planes sold in America 
j.an^abroad,;.fc£.On- Thurs
;';inW£ct• Corporation' plants at Cleveland Ohio: at this plant military and -'cpiam’ercial planes are built.-. Goodyear plants at- Akroi ;iiùiy:,be' visited; also.V -jDuring a similar trip takei;. Spring, contacts made in Phi• pfcia. Baltimore, and Washii - br foiir of !aet year> senior -- Fulted, in,their employment, at the¦ Naval Aircraft' Factory ^ In Pliila* Çelpfeia. These graduates have*
Ohio,
Dances Given 
By Sororities 
End Saturday
Buffet Suppers Saturday 
Evening Conclude 
Rushing Season
ast Friday the first formal ce of the sorority rushing sea- in the College of Fine Arts
dancenlng at the P. A. A. also. Alpha Kappa P9I plan to bave their rush- ' ig formal Friday at the Chatter- id the Gamma Gamma Gam- dance will take place at the P.box,
Saturday. Each of the will hold a buffet supper on Sunday evening.
The rushing season will be of­ficially closed at 12:30 a, m., Sun­day evening, being terminated by
COEDS TAKE OVER CONTROL OF R. O. T. C.
Music Group 
To Broadcast 
Over WWSW
’>i-:
Captains Maud Bower;
snted with their commie-1 Mary Lord, Colonel Mary Wettach, Captains Eleai adlhg from Wt to-right:] Lehr, and Nancy Chancellor. Major Margaret Sc
Point System 
Hinders Girls
Students Show Keen Interest 
In Dormitory Dancing Class
Council Grants Special 
Concession to Nine
Student Council recently re- 
slvcd petitions from a number of 
girls from Margaret Morrison and 
the College of Fine Arts asking 
that they be allowed to participate 
in more activities than the 'Wo­men’s Activities Point System per­mits. The Student Council voted on the petitions and granted Bea­trice Archer '36, Dorotha Bateman '36, Dorothy Booth '37, Maude: Bowers ’36, Sarah Crillmàn ’36, Sue Fuller ’36, Betty Hawthorne '36,
more office than that stated by the
Fifty Present at First 
Meeting—10 Lissons 
Are Planned
Fifty students turned out for the first dormitory dancing class' last Wednesday in Thistle Hall. These
who wish to improve' their dancing may'attend. A ’series of ten les­sons has been arranged at thirty ints each for the men and free for the girls.
Carmollta JacqueB ‘38, Départ­ent of Drama, le In charge of thé directing. She Is a professional
Activities System.
‘MOTIONLESS” MOTION DEMONSTRATED
Is bringing for demonstration.
“House of Magic” Exhibition 
Will Be Here Tomorrow
fifteen started. on a. one-year appren­tice .course which will take them ¦tturought the'prinlcpal departments ;¦ ofvthe factory, giving them.experi- ¿•eiice. that it would take many more p-years to-acquire In any. other man­ner, according to Professor Thorp.
Glider Club Hears 
Well Known Pilot
Dr. Lange Talks on “Gliding 
—An Aid to Meteorology”
beeh asked by the Carnegie Tech Glider club to give a few lectures at Carnegie on gliding and soaring as a method of carrying on research ïneteorology Dr Lange Is an ex­pert soaring pilot, and Is director of the Soaring Society of America.-Gssaectear . -wiîjî. .itoth harvard University and Massachu-
last anuary Victor M Saudek afl, SsIei Jta ? presidents Twelve of , the thlrt members are -now able to Allot a glider. The. ship now used w^s given to the.club by the WeBt- ln&houde Glider Club: but : plans
uj be entered in the lsa7 Soaring
G.-E. Engineer to Show 
Scientific Wonders 
In Union Hall
irtalnlng demon­strations . contained in General Electric’s “House 6f Magic" at the World’s Fair. Herbert Du Val, Jr.; of the G-E research laboratory In S.chenectaoy will conduct the dem- ’onstrations. '
. The stroboscope; • with ¦ its "mo-- tionlcss motion;” audible light
'electric eye." will be part of Mr.
wall in the form of parti-colored llsht. The current from the phono-- graph pick-up Is al arranged as to
the notes - of the phono­graph record. When this beam is focused on a phototube pick-up the light is once more turned- Into music. - The sound can be Inter­rupted by -Interception of' the beam at any- tune. Bv using a disk. and. .Q2r_UflU?_mtflrcentlneL tha Jiefim. oi. light Mr. Du Val produces wliat he. terms "saxophone music with a scalloped edge.” • f : -* l-he-stroboscope will present one of the .most- fascinating exhibi­tions. It consists of a long dark cylinder containing a neon lamp, -going on and oft 60 times a second- A; disk is .rotated by a motor at high speed .so that figures painted oh-Ite faces • are ¦ blurred in. ordi­nary light... . In .the:, lights of the
still. The stroboscope demon­strates how studied for defects while traveling at tremendous A high-frequency set in the form of an inductotherm, which re­sembles a miniature broadcasting station, will be used by Mr. Du Val to show how me effects of the artificial fever machine are utiliz­ed in - the treatment of disease. Plaiu glass tubes, with gases seal­ed inside, light up when brought into the field of the radiations on incandescent lamp, held in demonstrator’s hand but connect­ed' to no current supply, theless be lighted when brought in­to the high-frequency field.• Other experiments which will be
Incandescent lamp into sound which flicker off 120 times a second: for the human, eye to observe but
ied about with him. Since the demonstrations will last'only about one hour it is hoped that
Dancing Class
FOR BEGINNERS 
* Taught by
Carmollta Jacques 
THISTLE HALL
Every Wednesday Evening 6:30—8:15
Admission foi Men, 30c 
v Women Free
Col. Fairley 
Talks on War
'ho will recel1 structlons until girls, arrive. For the
preliminary in-
hour oil further instructions ¦tunity to practice the steps they have learned.
During the coming weeks, Miss Jacques and the Men’s Dormitory
ents. These will be announced :a later;date.,: .'. ;; " • • • .These ’’dancing 'classes, are. two- id. In purpose. , First they offei students who cannot dance, or -who would like to improve,.a chance learn the essentials of. good danc-. Ing. Secondly they give students a chancc to bocome acquainted with those of the opposite sex.
Connecticut Clan 
Has Homecoming
Football Luncheon Planned 
For Holy Cross Gam«
wald, Elm St.,. Stonlngton; treas­urer, H. Rosenberg, 260 Westlald St.,-Hartford; financial secretary, August ,W. Kann, Hilltop • Drive.
Hartford; assistant . .........secretary,- Catherine Stevenson, 12 Westfield Road, W. Hartford.In addition to the regular Clan reunions, a luncheon haa been planned ' to precede the Carnegle- Holy Cross gnme. The luncheon will be held at the Bancroft Hotel Saturday, Nov. 9, in Worcester,
vili be in attendance.
Dine at
KAHN’S GRIIL
Murray Avenue and Darlington
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
No Cover Charge
a friend 
' *
MELLON W!Gm 
BANK
Advocates Reasonable 
Preparedness in U.S.
Colonel George E- A. Fairley, superintendent of buildings and grounds,. was one of the principal peakers'at the “Panel on War” sponsored by the American Youth Congress and held at Taylor AH- derdice High school on October 24. Colonel Fairley, who is chairman of the Americanization and National Defense committee of the Al­legheny County council of the Vet­erans of Foreign Wars, spoke on *he subject of military prepared-
Advocating reasonable prepared­ness, Coloney Fairley .said “I bave seen war and war. conditions at first hand ... I am against the whole dirty, filthy mess, but I iot fool enough- to believe tha.vlng of inagic' the passing of some fancy ldeal- tic resolutions by. a church group •Kany .other group!, will prevent a ar, as.long as national greed and jealousies aro present to create }. Therefore I am In favor American army for defense \ poses, ready to put down by foi any group attack upon our cc try.*’ . :
national defense.
standing army, but to take ^h.e vital needs of furnishing offl-
the Reserve Officers Training Corps, as now being developed in those of our colleges and universi­ties where attendance is complete-, ly voluntary. Is an ideal arrange-
country organlattonJ”Mentioning the present troubled ¡onditlons in Europe and Africa, he colonel said. "If Europe wants o commit suicide let her do It, But let us etay home,i business, and keep c
Bacchanalians 
Make Plans, 
Elect Officers
WoTk on Annual Comedy 
For Spring Carnival 
*¦ To Begin Soon
Bacchanalians, student dramatic 
group, held their first meeting last 
Monday in the Little Theater, Col­
lege of Fine Arts. At this meeting 
a committee was named to handle 
the executive and business end of 
the production which the Baccha- 
ns will give during Campus 
Week. Thomas Kohler ’37, 
named chairman of this con 
tee; Susan Carter ’38, will, assist 
Miss Elizabeth Schrader, cos- 
tumlere for the Department of Drama; and Douglas Pannier, ’38,
work.. Carl Dozer ’3G, past president of this group, announced that the play for this-year has not yet been se­lected, but will be presented on the third day. . of Spring Carnival usual.Those' who remember "Tar and Feathers,” "Over the Coals,” '*Lo'Is Not Important," and “Shining Armor" are looking forward to this year’s
.imbeds .... chiefly interested In the technical end of producing plays. ÄIf ¿here
done oh the next Campus Week production, Mr. Kohler would glad to interview them. Student Council grants an Activities Key for two years’ service with
Tech BarberShop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
Four Color Art Process
Is Feature of Yearbook'
Symphony Orchestra Is 
On Air in VCAE 
Studio Opening
Tomorrow night at 11:15 the 
eighty piece Symphony Orchestra, 
of the Department of Music, under 
the leadership of . Prof. J. Vick 
Brlen, will' broadcast a short 
usical . program ..from the Car- 
gie Music Hall through the facll 
itie? of -WWSW. This, program 
will/, be held as an introductory 
tribute to i WCAE on the opening 
of tbelr new studios. In the William 
Hotel,' and the official dedi­
cation of :their new high power
Tchaikovsky’s Plano Concerto.” Thè orchestra will present “Oyer- to Euryanthe’’ by Weber, and ' ' “ ' 'by Hal-
The Phonogragh Recitals which ere inaugurated last -year will again be1 sponsored by the faculty of the shaoi Department. The first meeting, of this year will take place Monday afternoon at 4:80 the Exhibition room. . Qtbor meetings will follow on Wednes­day and Friday.All Btudents on the campus who -e interested in these muBic ap­preciation .hours are urged to be present on Monday at 4:30, so that their ideas and suggestions may be porated in the year’s program of music. Mr. Keeble, Mr. O’Brien and Mr. Pearson will again be in ¦harge of the programs.
Will Include Hans Plato’s 
Sketches-All Classes ; 
To Have Queens
Nino drawings by Hans Plato ' 
nationally known artist, will be oq« • 
of the chief attractions of the 193$. ^ 
36 Thistle, Editor Keith _ 
Cutcheon .’37, announced yester > 
day. Mr. Flato, who is a coma«' \ 
cial artist, does covers for several ^ 
lorge publications including Col- 
Iiers end Cosmopolitan.
For the first time in the bisloty 
of the Thistle, art work will cmny 
done in four colors. The four col- 
or process according to Mr. 
Cutcheon, Is very involved aud ex- 
pensive, uiuult out of proportion 
to a process using only two or three colors. • A modernistic theme will predominate both the art work' aud the entire boob.
Four queens, instead of two a last year, will feature this year’s beauty section. . The new-comers will be a sophomore queen and a freshman queen. These, together with the Thistle queen, presented for the first time last year, win ^ elected by the male element of the College of Engineering and the College of Fine Arts. The Thlelle staff will petition Student Council to hold a straw vote for this pur. pose. Upon being asked wby 170- men .will not b.e allowed 10 vole for these queene, Mr. McCutcheon plained that the staff did not con­sider the girls as competent judgee of feminine beauty as the men. Al­so included in this section will be" the Campus queen who will ba. elected as usual.The plaid cover will be usei again on this year’s book, it is being uBed in an attempt to cre­ate a traditional cover for the Thistle. The plaid Is the most
ST. ANDREW’S LUTHERAN CHURCHentrMwi Morewccd Avenues - H£NRYO. ECKHARDT, Pastor- 
Sunday Morning Worship, 10:46 A. M.Sunday School, 9:30 A. M.Young People's Hour every alternate Sunday, 7:15P. M.(Nov.TWO STOBES IN PITTSBURGH 
345 Fifth Avenue 6212 Penn Avenue
EASY WAY TO CONCENTRATE..AND AN EASY WAY 
TO ENJOY A PIPE
WOODPECKER 
PECKS HOLE IN 
SACK OF PEAS ®. 
PEAS DROP ON 
DISHPA^T (f) . 
WEATHER INDI­
CATOR.© THINKS 
IT'S RAINING 
AND SHIFTS TO 
“RAIN* RELEASING 
MOUSE IN TRAP 
^6). MOUSE TAKES 
ELEVATOR ® TO 
CHEESE ® EATS 
AWAV CHEESE 
WHICH LINES 
.BLOWTORCH UP 
WITH CHAIN 
AND CUTS CHAIN. 
THUS HORSE 
COLLAR AND 
BLINOtRS -(§) 
ARE DROPPED 
OVER STUDENT
I GET AROUND 
FIFTY SWEU. SMOKES 
FROM THE BIG 
2-OUNCE TiN OF 
PRINCE ALBERT. 
THERE ISNV A 
SETTER SMOKE 
>OIN' THAN P.A.I

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBEB 29. 1935
T A R T A N
SAUCE
?
By Scotty Charles
THEY DONE IT AND WE'RE GLAD. Once every season the Car­
rie Tech football team comes from out of nowhere and plays the 
football of which It Is capable. Two years ago they beat a good Notre 
gain recognition, last year they defeated the strongest 
that school, and now—Purdue.
fed TECHS WERE RATHER INCONSIDERATE. Last week we 
made the rounds trying to Sod out what was the matter with the 
local footballers when all of a sudden we And that they have been good' 
time—just a little modest, that’s all. We were told previously 
Üils season tbat those defeats of ours were cases, of fair teams defeat­
ing a good team playing lousy football. So It seems, Abercrombie, so
WHAT GIVES CAUSE FOR CAROUSING Is the fact'that the Plaid 
on not by getting a break and laying down to hang on^to It, but by 
playing straight, bone crushing ball that left the managers swoonl 
A glance at the rough calculations shows that the sklbos did as y 
as the Boilermakers In every department. Even the kicks averai 
47.4 yards which Is some dribbling In any league.
SEVERAL QUESTIONS OP ETIQUETTE were neatly solved 
Ibis fray. It seems tbat previously the boys considered It only cricket 
a a man for three plays in succession If he gained on the first 
Now that this tradition has been reorganized we want to compii- 
; DeQt Charley Spisak on bis swell, and decidedly unique, quarterback- 
tag, quick kicking and général work on the field.
ALSO UNDER THE HEAD OF MISCELLANEOUS compliment: 
mes Henrion for his ace work at tackle, a position he . has learned 
play well In four games; Matetan, for his sweet running;. Patt, for 
his handling of the end post, and Rosenthal for his being cçnclderate 
enough to cateh Jerry’s pasa and cross the stripe. We al6o wai 
thank and send regrets to Purdue's Mr. McGannon, who saved us 
Blderable embarrassment and the bother of celebrating only a moral 
.victory.
THE STENTATORIAN TASKS OF BEATING the Black and Gold 
bandied mostly by what hare been coyly called reserves. They' all 
played swell ball and deserve lots of credit for their work through it 
ffould lake a little too long to commend them all Individually. It 
9 indeed, a Bevere shock to: the Tartan rooters to learn that there 
I some reserves and 'what’s more—good ones.
IF THE BOYS'WILL* BE GOOD ENOUGH In the future as to tell 
just when they are going to'do this sort of thing, we would be only 
¦ happy to lay a few potatoes on the line at thoqo Juicy odds of 5 to 
I am giving away my 6tudent pass to the Rose Bowl tb'the person 
supplying this Information. The line will kindly form In the new Bell 
Tower.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE JUST CAN’T get our minds off the Purdue 
n. The tackles were functionipg neatly and, being the fundamentals 
any defense, had.a. big part in the victory. There is still lots -more 
at could be said about the meet, but we pass the dice and apologies. 
P. S. We’ro not done yet Add many thanks to Wally Steifan, ex-Tech 
tutor, for moral support. He was reputedly the most jubilant cele* 
brator.
AND NEXT, DUQUESNE or “Through the Big City With Gun and 
Camera.” We don’t want to be nasty, but It seems that the Duquesnes 
just can’t take a joke and are a bit peeved about thè Plaid vieto 
last year. In fact, thére le 6ome talk of revtnge. We are not 
itctlng this game at all. Last week, we predicted a Purdue victory 
j jut, fortunately, the Item was cut The présent reasoning“ Is—If you 
iredlct you aren’t wrong so often—get It, Mr. C.. Smith?
Fighting Scots in Action as Boilermakers Are Downed
'-'•f
K’K .& <, \ V t « f
If V
f - : ’ ! " :p.-ï
* i v ,2 A ' * v r , •
Sklbo gladiatore downed Purdue Saturday. Tartan linemen have Pur-1 Carnegie player Is executing an attack from the r
Future Foes 
Win Contests
Holy Cross, Pitt Win; 
Time Out For Dukes
have perked up their ears at Car­negie’s win over Purdue while Tech is practicing anew and awaiting the future contests. Holy Cross won over Colgate to the tune of 3-0 this past-Saturday. Although played throughout
ed victory from the flro by kicking a field goal from the 25-yard stripe. This victory kept the Ilitoly Cross
week ago In their tie game /with • Manhattan. Duquesne this past week-end rested up for Carnegie game this week and can be expected to put up a good fight after losing Borne of their r< games. Pitt was extended Saturday OV their game with Penn State but finally winning 9-0. Penn State was a tower of strength on defense and.had the Panther root­ers frantlcal at the half when the score was 0-0. However, in the third quarter the Lions were tiring out and Pitt scored a field goal with a touchdown following in the fourth 
quarter. _______________
Tartans Down 
Purdue In Grid 
Battle Royal
(Continued From Page One.) 
ind Bowaer to Splsaft, the TartanB 
back on the Purdues 20. Two 
by Nanotnlk and Bowser 
nought the ball to the one-yard 
and then -with goal to go and 
ibe last down coming up Napotnik’s 
Jnal try was just. shpri by six 
Mhe?.. Purdues ¿¿fillef:jxra short 
feed when once, again the Tartans 
noved down the field, but the Boll- ¡(makers stiffened for a moment the 20-yard line. Spisak’s ipt for a field goal from the d marker waa short and Purdue «gained the- ball on their own 20.I short time later thePlaid came nthla inches of scoring when. Joore tnleaed -Splsak’s lorig pass In ie clear and on the: ten.
Coach Klzer hastily repiacid .his hock trops In the second' period tod the Boilermaker’s smarted to to town. Led' by the • ••touch*. ft twine,” Isbell and McGanbon, ¡“roue marched' steadily from Heir oT7B\ five-yard line, ninety Jjraa without losing the ball once ^llh a score Insight. on the final of the drive, • Steve Trbovich ¡«ted down a short pasa in the- iweer zone. Fighting back fierce- /> the Tartans marched-back to 
® mldfleld, before Mateian • .was orced to punt. Isbell’s return punt j ® fumbled by Matelan on Carne- • ® 26-yard line when he wbb “«Jed fiercely. Ptfrdue once,more plAces^.and ,cnoe . Scotch stopped theiu’-on m five-yard .marker,.' V.--:.-.;- 
I® the fourth quarter, eairie'the^ . 8Core Mi a inost unfortunate JWk for the unlucky Boilermak- Splsak punt'ed.to the^Purdue 7 where McGannon‘caughtllt o run; By . the; ihelp' - of' excel* I u lnlei-ference all lthe 'Carnegle •«lets were swept out'tit his way. 
... . clear. with a ’smile - of satis* ®!!pn,.he ntarted.loplfcff-'Ws way “ward the Tech goal. With not a 
71 ln hla way or on hie trackball h,l8udden Mr. McGannon took a S!IT€lvU8 Brodle and with that fall the Pudue hopes. : From then 
h- o WaB Carnegie, and''with final gun. the vTaTtana; swooped
£¡5 «¦« » twjftWSrHF‘Vfeler got on.his train and read
'i all elso (all., thèri oatb,t lg Q«TerIs never crowded, vYou¦T >
ANNOUNCING
GRAND OPENING 
THURSDAY, OCT. 31
Pittsburgh's Most Elaborately 
Appointed Dinner & Supper Club
“The ©old Room”
Extraordinary Engagement
Joe! CandulS©
And His N.B.C. Band Direct From
EAINBOW BOOM, BADIO CITY
Make Reservations gl,er.-z 3700 
Minimum Charge, $1.50 per person 
"Gold Room" Opena 9:30 P. M. Musle & Dancing Until 2
THE NEW. Second Floor -
ROOSEVELT HOTEL
Hotel Bancroft
OPPOSITE CITY HAU.
~ WORCESTER, MASS.
-500-Rooms
Three Restaurants
THE BANCBOFT WILL BE THE 
BEKDEZVOUS FOB THE CBOWDS 
BEFORE AND AFTEB THE 
CARNEGIE TEÜH-HOLT CROSS GASEE, 
NOVEMBER 9 x 
FITTON FIELD, SCENE OF THE GAME, IS 
ONE MILE ÎB0M THE’HOTEL ' “ ' 
Wire Collect Wèstern Union For Beservationa
MAURICE T LAWLEB, Manager
Plaid Soccer Team Ties
Slippery Rock Teachers
Overtime Periods Finish 
Scoreless; Liven good, 
Prendes Tally
Even with the playing of two five* 
minute overtime periods, Tech and 
Slippery Rock State Teachers’ 
college soccer teams could not 
break the 1*1 deadlock which pre­
vailed at the end of the game last 
Saturday. As both teams were 
evenly matched, the game was play­
ed hard up until the end.
Throughout the first three quar­
ters of the game, It was played mostly in mid-field. In the 'fourth
quarter, Tech scored when Prendes. center forward, scored from- In front of the goal. A short time later, from a mix-up in front of the Tech goal a foul ,Aa called against Tech Inside the penalty area. On the penalty shot which followed, Llvengood, left half, scored neatly Slippery Rock’s only .goal. From then on the game was scoreless, al­though each team several times threatened the others goal. Several times Slippery Rock on corner kicks nearly scored, but each time goalie Kissel got to the ball In the nick of time.
Both teams played hard through­out the game, but the outstanding players of the day were Llvengood, who played an excellent game for
Slippery _Rock, wiiüe Rigg played 
inlng gamos o
>11 for Tech,The two rei soason are away.Rock, and one with Grove City
Tech. Kissel ....
Swinney ..Pearl •......L. Reid
W.Reld .. Floyd ......
Prendes .Lalll .......
Pendleton
Slippery Rock.............. AxtellF........ PuebcarHastings.. Henning .. Wynnlch .Llvengood .... Mnllon...... Faust.... - Welsh .. Haynes
Goals—Prendes, Llvengood. Subs. —Tech, Leety, Blair, Rlggj Slippery Rock—Strlppy, Abrams. Time— IS minute quarters, two 6-mlnute
Dukes, Skibos Eye Coming 
Tilt As Step to City Title
Duquesne Ready For Carnegie Game After Last 
Week’s Rest. Dukes Eager to Avenge Past 
Losses to Rice, Kausas, Catholic U.
By T. R. Jordan, Sports Editor 
Duquesne Duke
Whose grid eleven will emerge a victor from Suturdwy’s ‘‘battle'roy­al?' will tho campus of the Tartan Fluid reverberate with the .cheors of victory, or will an ominous si­lence tlmt is Indlcftttvo of defeat prevail among tho followers of tho Sklbo clan?. .jsv0m ri»e iiu-oat of the oldest 
nlumnns to tho youugost Duquesne Fi'eshmnu, bellicose words have been shoutod: 4,BEAT TECH!*’ Twice the charges of the galloping Night Riders have fulled to ride down tho figh'ing Scots w\io in n charity game in 1931 held the (lying Dukes under.tlve coaching of Elmer Layden to a scoreless tie. Acs In Inst year undov tho able tutelage of Howard Harpstor. tlio Schonley Park boys completely upset the "wise boys” and tholr predictions us they defeated a bewildered Du­quesne eleven 3 0 before a crowd of some odd 40,000 s'unnod spectators at the Pitt Stadium. That day it waa joo Mihm'a big toe that spelled disaster for the Hilltop as he kicked a portent three pointer tlmt spoiled victory for tho linderdogB.
Saturday nfternoon, the protogea of Christy Flanagan will attempt to answer those warlike yells etu- Inntlng.from the followers of the Red anil Blue with .a win that will dazzle tho Tftrtiin'faithful.A local newspaper last week
PERSONAL CARE 
1. When you . aro ill or feel 
"down” go to your family doctor 
and let him-find tho cause of your 
poor health^
If you are away from homo—aoe 
or telephone Dr. Marks at the gym­nasium or home.
. 2. Helpful Hints
Don't go to the advertising doc­tor.
Don’t buy medicine Just because
mend raedtclDes.
IF YOU DO NOT FEEL WELL— 
GO TO A GOOD DOCTÖR
ATTRACTIVE ROOM AND BOARD $31.00 per month'
civil war.” Civil "war It is but the rivalry between the two schools is cloau and friendly. That the game win be oue of the hardest fought Is a foregone conclusion. Duquesaa first of al) will be out to eveu up last yoar’s heartbreaker. Secondly,
tho touchdown trail and believe, that it will take more per­suasion tliun Tech can supply to ,
Itlon that school has attained-lu- <ho eyes of the sporting world. Tho name “T E C H” and '’GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP” aro eynonmous to thoso who hnvo mot tho Plaid or who have seen a game in whlolt Tocli has participated.
Managers Wanted For Minor Sports
outfits have been, progressing rapidly, but managers- are sorely needed by each squ^d. The swimming ' and . rifle,
It is hoped this yoor will be no exception.
Numorals aro awarded to Plobes becoming managers of these teams.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBERSHOP
6823 FORBES STREETiSl
GET A vVÖ- WITH A CAMEL /

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TOTSDAY. OCTOBER 29, -1935
3The Carnegie 3Tadm
PUONB MAYFLOWEB 2
Published. woofcly <J
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. I
ADVERTISING - MANAGER : PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: EXCHANGES: Rosemary B. ... CIRCULATION M ANAGER :
41 Last Wc Can Enjoy 
& Merry Christmas 
Jjft N APATHETIC majority has at last roused 
2\ itself from its indifference and complete- 
§-. overriden the heretofore effective protests 
of a small minority of students. Undesirable 
Vacation dates have been crammed down our 
throats Jong enough. The petition asking for a 
dhange of dates which Student Council trans­
mitted to the Executive Board wqs the work 
of a smalt group of agressive out-of-town stu­
dents. But though the move was started by 
a« few students it clearly represented the un­
impressed sentiment of three-quarters of the 
student body.
- The original purpose for starting Christmas
¦ aeation at a time far in advance of other in- 
ititutions was to enable Carnegie students to 
• rork during the pre-Christmas rush days. No
ault can be found with the theory, but in
¦ iractice the benefits went to the few and in- 
onvenienced many. Eight hundred out-of-
' own students find no pleasure in spending 
Jew Year's day traveling to school for an 8:30 
lass on January 2.
Protesting against the new vacation dates 
iecause they prevent students from getting 
rork is making a mountain out of a mole hill, 
figures furnished by the employment bjireau 
how that. In times of prosperity and high 
wollment the number of men and women who 
/ere placed, in positions during the holidays 
as 175 or 6:5% of the total registration. Last 
ear the .figure fell-to 3.4%. There is no doubt 
at these figures would be considerably in-i
reased if records were available to show the 
umber of students who sccured work without 
le knowledge of the employment bureau. To 
Bay^that 'lO per cent -of-the. enrolled students 
secured work during vacation time, would; not 
be far from wrong. Several school officials be­
lieve that even; this figure is high.
There is another very . interesting factor 
'which puts .quite, a'dent, in the defense of the 
die-hards who -still advocate long vacations so 
students can secure .employment. 74.5.% of the 
women and 50.5% of the men indicated upon 
their registration blanks that they have no de­
sire to secure work during the school term.
No doubt remains in our minds that the Ex­
ecutive Board acted -wisely in making the 
Christmas recess a matter of convenience for 
many instead of a business opportunity for a
Assignments vs»
Fellowship
C
RITICISM, should always be considered 
with several grains of salt. But it should 
. fee considered!
The comments of foreign students upon the 
- United States and the American college stu-. 
;';.r Thè college
; ; 6tudent naturally is at a critical state, both lit­
erally and with his opinions. He has not 
• reached that mellow state of life attributed by 
• : some to faculty and older persons. His judg- 
¦- • ments may not be the best but sometimes in 
his scurrying about he roots up new ideas and 
. ideals.
Is it true that students at Carnegie Tech for- 
; - get; fellowship in their, scramble to keep up 
with assignments? And is it true that this 
mad. scramble eventually deposits them outside 
^ with a hard-won diploma representing knowl- 
. .edge which they lack the poise and personality 
to put across? ;
. Carnegie Tech can not be taken as a repre- 
-, sentative American institution. Its scholarship 
and courses are much above the ordinary lib- 
; ;: eral arts college. Its instructors are among the 
• : beat in the country.1 Its students work as hard 
¦‘¿as at any inatitution in thecountry. With all 
as a backgto^Qd .a-^ecli'gra^iiate'sbioidcT 
Jgimtóe his mnrk io tho world. And many of 
them dol Bat it is the ones who don’t that- 
^jniake an; interesting study; -; • . •
: i j newcomers to our college cab see things 
. f to whicU>e ate blind, why not take advantage 
' * aid? If our spirit .of fellowship' is 
r 'we;4ay£^ It is
¿d that^m’/teeinrix-id- kno'Prl^dg'e is saffl- 
ink¿Is our. social knowledge on a par ?
Tech is a common bond between students of 
- countries.,. Could tlero baabetter place 
--------A,e: that spirit of internationalism
. *s ? . Your answer to this question 
, arising from ¿ open-minded critica' 
Le - your stand as ; ani. educated
Writers’ Row
WHY THE WORLD LAUGHS
Many years, ago a wlae sage discovered tbat lie 
. way to a. man’s heart was not through his atom- . 
ach, but through his funny-bone. If one wished 
to start a revolution, the Ideal method of.pro­
cedure was lo ridicule the existing form of gov­
ernment. If one wished tb. change the religious 
system, a few jokes at the expense of the church - 
would be Instrumental In turning people to a 
new faith. This remarkable discovery, has been 
largely responsible for the development of wit- 
and humor through subsequent centuries. Many 
technical definitions may be found ior these 
terms, but none Is so expressive as that given 
by an obscure author: ‘‘Humor-?s-laugh!»!» with \ 
the other man; wit Is laughing at. him.” The 
purpose of humor Is exclusively entertainment 
while wit may frequently be of a-serious or even 
a caustic nature.
The development of wit may be tra'ced back to the archives of ancient Egypt, which contain many-amusing taleB, most of 'them too lengthy to quote, Egyptian wit was laborious and heavy. Today, it would barely, rate a.careless smile. The contrast between Egyptian and Greek wit Is marked. One Greek writer tells of a man whose wife has fallen into the river. He run upstream to rescue her. A friend calls to him, “Fool, the current will carry her downstream, not up.” To this the man replies, "You do not know my wife.” The flavor of tbls story is decidedly mod­ern. Writing witty epitaphs upon tombstones was another pastime of the Greeks. One of these reads, “I, Dionysius of Tarsus, lie here; sixty years old; I never-married, and I wish my father bad not.'’ This cannot begin to compare wit« some of our modern, epitaphs, but it is evi­dent tbat the author was attempting to be witty. That It Is being quoted some two thousand years after bis death le ample proof that he succeeded. The development of eatlre-msy also be traced to the early Greeks. At a time when Europeans were merely bands of savages, whose main idea . of wit consisted of such practical jokee as push­ing each other from cliffs, Aristophanes was writing dramas which would put many modern satirists to Bcorn. He made sport of social cus­toms in the manner of the late Will Rogers and ridiculed governmental policies, the great phil­osophers. and even life, Itself.
Several hundreds years elapsed before Eng­lish wit was horn, The oldest known work, Beowulf, Is an epic, and thus it Is dignified. It lacks wit entirely unless the grim irony of the line, '‘the Scyldlngs folk never used treachery In those days,1' might be construed as an attempt at levity. The irony in the English ballads is much more .-prominent, and the use of Ironical understatement is evidently meant to pass for witticism. In Gawaln and the Green Knight irony becomes gentler and' more subtle. The climax comes in Shakespeare’s works, which contain practically every variety of wit that has ever been known. It would be Impossible to Il­lustrate this point adequately In less words tban I Intend to spend upon the wl Summing up, English wit Ib res permits Itself to become open <
French wit,'however, Is more:open and unre­pressed. Fun le inked at temporal and spiritual lords with a great deal of display. The very manner In which French stories are told seems to convey to the reader, “Now I am about to say something clever.” The incarnation of French wit, to me, Is Voltaire. He was peculiar­ly adept at what we. term.“comebacks.” His particular field- was that of “velvet-gloye” ire* marks. This , type of observation has been de-
rlyals for some, time, each attempting, to gain Influence with the king. Voltaire persisted in maintaining superior, attitude,.-"Oome; come, M. Voltaire,1’.- said .de Sarenac. . “We are both - men of the world.” Voltaire countered back,' ‘‘Yes, It’s a large world, Isn’t it, M. de_Sarenac?’.’ Other amusing examples are to be found .in ¦ Candida. •,
A modern author has given a. belter Illustra­tion of this type of wittlciBin.ln- the caustic com­ment of "the old lady; who,saw the tango danced for the first , time.' She assumed a very sweet expression, and raising her voice so that, all around her might hear, said, ‘T suppose it’s'all right if they really love each other.” Among the
Bernard' Shaw.
; We must not leave the subject of wit with­out a glance at .some of the English satirists—' Defoe, S.wift> Addison, and Steele. Although at the time that .lilt their mai unsurpassed.
Humorcannot boast- ancient Egypt. , as Its source, but must be content to trace-. Its begin­nings: to the Hebrews.* .There are many' stories of the riddles asked King sSoiomdn and .of his ready answers. ~ The.re.-may; be other- examples 0?. humorjlo the-years before tiie^ar]y_-.EnffUsh writings, but none of them are very Important.'. Chaucer was -tlie first Englishman to Introduce indirect humor. Into literature. He also used.a finer shading that is not typical-of earlier writ-...
Gawaln and th« Green Knight contains hum .ous. dilemmas and-- light fancies-, which .show .a slight advance." .When Shakespeare appears, .we have examples of almost every-type of 'humor .ever used.. Tile, pages of-his works are filled with nonsense, misuse of words, sudden i
works of George Eliot is of a finer typel 
America has produced more authors with the ability to write humorous works than any other couutry. . Mark . Twain and - Bert Harte both wrote of relations between two persous of differ­ent races. The gap Is bridged by sheer power. *Tttf6 tasmov contained in .the works of these men Is not., conscious and therefore' quite effective. There are. many contemporary writers who are
.Such. Nonienset, .'• Hilaire Belloc lias included ¦- sem€.e^r<3meiy'?i^€^ioiiQ .aalinalfl ia-his--'works; In fact, there are very, iew American - •authors wbo have'not' tried their, hands at some form of humorous 'writing. ;
In the above paragraphs, I have not attempted , to; give an .exfiausUve surrey bf the history of . wit and humor....That.task:would be quite im­possible.; I-have merely^hlt the highest spots.”
tlans: • tb^th©.. present day. What ..the. people of
News Review of Current 
Events tlie World Over
Hoare Promises Britain Will Not Fight With Italy— 
Laval’s Peace Efforts Continued—President 
Roosevelt Returns to Washington,
i-in; anything : else.' ; But
Nbtice for Writer's Row
: at the Tarton/òfflce froai filudente in any de- : partment. ¿Those of sufficient merit 'wlll-^he printed .{in Subsequent; iBaues.v-Artlcles'. should not exceed "1,500 word«
çm SAMUEL HOAHE, British 
^ foreign secretary, assured par­
liament and the world that' Great 
Britnin.has.no Intention, of-fight­ing . Italy and 
would jiot aiooe apply military 
sanctions against 
that nation. He 
held ont strong 
hopes that the wnr 
In Africa could be settled without-re­
sort by the league, to extreme meas-. 
ures. His speech > 
was plninly an In­
vitation to Itply to talk peace terms.
Denying tbat the government’ 
policy Is hostile to Fascism^- Sir 
Samuel said; - -• -
“We bave not. the least Intention of interfering In .the domestic af­
fairs of other people.”
“The unbroken solidarity of the empire is behind the government's 
policy,” be said. “Let those proph­
ets of misfortune who have marked 
the empire down for decay and dis­
solution observe this fact of over: whelming Importance.”
Hoare hinted at British Isola­tion from continental affairs If the 
league collapses.
Next day Prime Minister Stanley: 
.Baldwin warmly endorsed.all. that 
Hoare and Capt Anthony -Eden have done at Geneva. He depre­
cated even the use of the word war, 
but called for a rearming of - thé empire, saying: “In the interests 
of world peace It is' essential oar defensive services shoald be strong­
er than they are today.’'
\4USS0LINI made one. concllta- ¦IvJ tdry gesture toward Great 
Britain when he agreed to with­draw a division of troops from Li­bya; and at-the same time he urged 
that Fronce and^Brltaln make.quick reply to his peace conditions]. Bui 
it became known, the troopB ;W,ere to-be moved from Libya to Tripoli, 
where they wouldbe almost i ne much a menace to Egypt; and thr 
auce’fl peace terms, were so. dras .tic that there was no prospect thaï 
they would be accepted by. anyone concerned, ..They Included disarma 
meat of .-Ethiopia, - an Internationa’ 
protectorate , over the centraf > re­gions and an Italien protectorat* 
over.thè remainder;.
Addressing - the.. -foreign affairs .committee of the French chambei 
of deputies, Premier Laval prom . lsed he . would seek only ' a compro­
mise tbat would bë..fully accepta­
ble .to die League of Nations. He told - the committee thetv France's 
battleships would steam .immediate­
ly to the. assistance .of Britain if the letter's fleet - was attacked by ftflily.
DltESIDENT ROOSEVELT, deep- 
* iy tanned and Id,, fine spirits, re­
turned to the White House, bis Hol­iday tour, ended; . When be landed 
from the cruiser Houston at 
Charleston,^ S. C., be told a big 
crowd gathered to welcome blm 
that the country Is on its way back 
'to prosperity- under .the planned 
economy of his administration, “and 
don’t let aoybody tell you differ­ently.'’
C*OIt the third time In his career- " Mackenzie King is Slcm prime 
minister of Conuda, following the victory of the Liberal. porty at tbe 
polls. Richard B. 
Bennett and bis 
Conservative cabi­net resigned and 
King was called on 
fo>rm the new 
government, which he di<| at once. He 
mseli was sworn 
as prime mfnis- f.jiresident of the privy council and 
secretary of state
King
Greek Notes
The holiday, spirit of Hallowe’en has given fraternity social; chair* ten plenty of ideas-for the -week-
thecalandar.
The dance held laet Friday at the Tau Delta Phi house, turned out to be a combined Harvester’s and Hal­lowe’en dance. A public address system was hooked' up . so that all of.-the fifty couples; present could dance.In-any part. oC the house. Everyone was wellentertained—: ask the pledges wbofhad to pick stalk's out of the chandeliers next morning.
The..A.„T...O.;3 report an equally successful Hallowe’en party. The next thing on.their program la
S. A. R and Kappa Delta Rho tèrtained penn State guests Friday and Saturday. The K. b. R; alumni glvlnff; the boys à stag ...party which - will include dinner, cardsÿ -mokes, and music; '
Thé welcome victory. Saturday seems to have .stirred up a: little spirit on the campus. \The. PI K. A. .pledgés and actives will rough It up on the Wlghtman.field Satur­day mornine- The Delta Tau Delta team will play the Architects that morning also.- Tako your pick—the "scraps” of the century. Everyone •is. welcome-7-rree!
Alpha Phi Delta.held a full swim­ming party last Sunday. Just in case, the refreshments served were life savers. -
-À-cayoEaV>-f4Ucde?’g-<isy-.baÿ let Is scheduled for Sigma Phi Ep> 
Ion: November 1. at -their 'house- ¦rCathedral .Manalona. • Thé-.Betà Thêta Pi’s :wll1 help celebrate'.thé opening.'of jthe Golden Room at the Roosevelt. Hôtel.- They-also held à 
last Sunday afternoon for. thé ihers .atvthe. home of Dr. Work, who ia the^ chapt^r advlsor. -' : 
Other teas wlll be held Sunday,
Sigma; Rho -for.;':'the : 'Jewish ddrm glrls.Mrs. J.’B. Rejsenbachwill pour, 
jbose who'; mlssed . gettlng/ tick- s to see rciMpatra’1- (and Antov 
') can become giiests .of Mr.'fil­er Kenyontonight' by -attehdlng th«;.Tttetd-^aai-Talk.:and; supper B:301ri,the Commons Annex. .-.; >Vv;
The Kappa Sigs ehtertained Dean- Tarbell and his famlly;iast Monday. October 28. Thla Prlday a costume party atl thaxboase-wiU;;start N6i imber Off v wlth, ai he
foira. Thomas A. Crerar of Winnipeg was made min­
ister of mines, immigration and colonization, Interior and Indian af­
fairs. Charles A. Diiimlng of Mont­real. is the new minister of finance 
and W. D. Euler or Kitchener has 
the trade and commerce portfolio. 
All the cabinet positions except lhat 
of agriculture were filled at once.
The resignation of w. D. Ber- 
ridge as minister to Washington 
was accepted and became Immedi­
ately effective. The deportment of national revenue announced cancel­
lation of dumping duties om the fol­lowing commodities entering Can­
ada: Plums, prunes, radishes,, spia- ach, sad peaches,
A RTHDR HENDERSON, presl- ** dent of the world disarmament 
conference and s most determined foe of war, died in a London i 
ing home. He 
sevènty-two y e 
old "and bad been 
III for a long time, so III. tbat he had 
not. been permitted 
to see a newspaper for six weeks' and 
did not know tbat another war h
that peace In Eu­
rope . was threat­
ened; The former mold.er of Glasgow who became a leader of the; Labap party end was foreign 
retary when It was In power, was 
awarded .Lbe Nobel peace prize in 1034. His crusade for.peace and 
armament was Inspired by the death • of. his eldest son jo the World 
He was s gentle, much loved 
a genuine Idealist whose latter years were made sorrowful by the 
péatéd talluré of thë disarmament conference to get results.
Presnet
i'eree mooch. I shall geeve my all!—Poor Cleo.'
SAID A FAIR VISITOR one da while viewing tho campus. "What’ ibat iiitie building in frcr.t of Ma­chinery Hall for?" Oh That, re plied a football player, “Is Stuien’i glorified Hot Dog and Refreshment stand for weary, engineers.”
AND HOW DID THE BETA Pi’s rate the P. A. A. with their hundred dollar budget?—their dance would have gone over smoothly if “Nosey” ; hadn’t been there. He spent the whole evening handshaking the Dean so that half of the plebes didn't even get * chance to meet her. We want to inquire (politely) whether that was a Beta Pi or Beta Thela Pi- formal—fourteen of the boys rated. - ,
THAT KAPPA SIGMA HAYRIDE, advertised os the W. A. A. hayrlde, really turned out to be a frat rush­ing party—each of-the bros. at­tached himself to a poor plebe and tortured blm with the usual rush­ing data—In a subtle manner of
THE BEETLE FORMAL MUST have been a big success — B^tty Schrack didn’t even bother going —but went to a Pitt med party in­stead.
MARY LOD YOU CAN take___Maskov cause the Beta PI dance >ver and Hallowe’en Isn’t till
SKIBO AS USUAL IS crowded with “Maggies’* who sit thru three lunch periods hoping someone else will play the “vie.’*.
Incidently—what happened to the garbage man ditty?
P R-A C TI C. AiLL Y EVERYONE with a dorm key and a registration card turned out to see Minnie in afestive mood at the Dorm dance__Chairman Horvath offered all par­ticipants everything they needed to enliven the party and have a good time—a few of Minnie’s boys
Off the Grass signs—prexy Gi'huoro (delt adv) dropped in to see If his plebes were being properly catered to—Dick Hammond and D. Bato- man spent most of their time in the dark alley entrance—probably scaring each other.
IT - HAPPENED AT THE BETA Sig house on Forbes street last Saturday night. An Inebriated gentleman-whom everyone thought was an alumnus-from another .chap­ter was wandering about—as altim nl will wander—bragging alternate­ly for about two hours-straight,' he turned and said,' “Ya know» we Sigma Nus have a great organlza- shun.” fle .was Immediately told that the- Sigma Nu house was next door to which he replied, “Well, I
I don’t see how i could get inside that rich Jewish frat next door." The Sigma Nu’s went over and af­fectionately took him to their
WE MADE A HURRY UP TRIP to Purdue and one of the most markable features of the -game (of
they were all decked out Jn thei cords and derbies! Tradition has It ¿hat they toss the iron'hats int< lbe sir'when Purdue scores tbel: first touchdown. Tally-hoo, by kimmlny. but they were embarras- ed when the Battling Scots didn’t let them score. Derbies will be in style this winter at Poo Poo Pa Do.
also made the jaunt west . . . why? . cause they (we too). got their meals and lodg­ing-free we guess. -Anyhow ibey had a hellava good time even though they did lose their tender voices. They brought back three unused derbies, an autographed bottle (every Tech- player signed jt)> & wrinkled loader, and by gad
AN.OLD PURDUE PLAYER class of ’8B was cornered in the Blue Blazzer and this is what he told . . . “and 'that year I ployed for Illinois, coached them, and play­ed for Purdue ... And all in the same year/'"Bue when be was ask­ed his name, he just replied, “Hie
SI ' “MINNESOTA” SIBERLICH has been limping around with a very very sore leg. He fell out of
at the girls on -Forbes Street.
SOMETHING NEW IN THE WAY of Fun for Fun clubs is the Broth­er Jawn and Sister Sue-club. They
quickly initiated
i assignment at a midwestern university was to bring in a report the Middle Ages. The professor received a review of "Life Begins
Sciito Scoops
CHEAPER SLEEP
Cyclopropane, -long coosl*«,, 
the ideal anaesthetic by med(” 
authorities, but restricted lD PSE
mercial use because or ito 
horbitant price of $45 a pound hJ 
at last been produced cheaply k. 
university.. research chemist I 
Purdue. A patent for the tie* 
method was issued in Juue 0f uj, 
year, and after a further period 9» 
university experimentation t0 co rect any defects in the manurac^ ing process, calculate, the coet production, and “feel out" the «*; ket for the anaesthetic at the nB* low price, the commercial prodnl lion privilege- wiii be iranSiwi lo the Mallinckrodt Compand St. Louis. 7 0.
Cyclopropane, being relatively— -iless, Is simple .to adrôToletep acts very quickly, and has n0 afl£
NO SALE 
* new low in muddle-heaaednt reached with this little classic m a college newspaper: “Were- gret to state that we did not ha« the information about Joha—cor­rect. He Is not an instructor bni a fellow. Dr. .Wolf is not head ot the botany department. There is botany department. lre bicj.
t* ------* Durham Univerellrsrsity.”—ACP.
HIGH COST OF EATING Students at the Univereiiy 0{
RECREATION1. Use your spare time for mo •ccreatlon but don't take it all» .ing.
2..- Get into: the swimming pool -out on the play.'field—c through..the park. .3. Fresh air and sunshiue—free gifts of nature. ‘ Have you had
Lillian H. Gist, received her M. A. degree in' . Greek Archeology at Claremont College, California, laal June. Her thsBls was a 28,000-
809 UBBRTY AVENUECOurt 2301
Third Among tie Year’s Ten Best. — 
N. Ÿ. World-Telegram. ;i
(“POIL DE CAUOTTR”)
A Daring Study of Adolescence 
French Dialogue English Titles
CHILDREN NOTO ADMITTED
leged Income tax evaders.of Louisi­
ana failed when a Jury In Federal 
New OrleanB brotighl. in a
of tbeclose associâtes of the late Senator Long. ;The prosecution claltned he 
owed $71,000 in taxes. The ver- 
.‘diet, was .greeted with loud cheers .by.'.the,crowd. In the courtroom, and 
ln...the..eisulDg„coDfus)oD séreraJ rie^s photographers were .beaten up
Dear Editor [
. Letters printed are - the - opin­ions of readers and should not be confused -With the ¡editor, lal policy of the Tartari.
To the Editor, of !‘Tho Carnegie ^Tartan:”
- As students!of Carnegie who are interested in having a school pa­per whiish is written by students and which expresses student jyiln- ion, we offer the following sugges­tions In.the hope of seeing them in the Tartan.
U The syndicated column enti­tled “Current Events,” while valu­able initself, should be replaced by .one written by a atudent, . since there is-no other such opportunity at Carnegie for.serious student ex-rpffS'SiOh'.' ------
On the • same page, the edl-
readers interested* follow out a definite- editorial pol­icy, the,ditiectlon to be determined by. a conscious effort on the part of the edit'orlal .eitaff to decide'what ^constitutes' -Carhegley' opinion.
ÒÌ a .column, nor an appeal . spec£"the' Plttsgurgli police, deals with anything;, of. vital .Importance tor students;..Today,' most conversa­tions eventually.-turn;,to the Italo- É thioplaii Mvar.Yyet1 tho-xTartcRv has chosen to cbmpletely Ignore -it>. We:%nist .that-the publication; of this letter ,wjll.stimulate other.peo- 
;pile -to'; answer; withPadded ' sugges- “ — --nments..: .-Sincerely^. '
^¦^'fl;rànà':-Ji--P;-, •.
tlone I

---------------------------------------------------

jdetal Belts Have Inspired 
Co-ed Stylists—Rope Adds 
Glamour to Evening Gowns
New Column 
Covers World 
Of Sciences
Cellophane Clolh Appears- 
Pre Informal Functions 
Pleats Predominate
By Elva Hendel 
Hello again! Can you stand a itle systematic raving about what ffhat and -where? We hope so, 
t*cause here it i6—
Belts are terribly important this 
season. Beall3i;, j1 18 3UrPrisinS 
jnrJnai
_ consider how an old gown with just a up" of Ihe belt.' Versatile
hire- we :lees brilliant off- 
springs will have-to shell out and
of the suspender or a défini- uvu j your waistline, it is the koy 
jote o£ your costume. Miss Chic Till choose her accessories to .cor­respond with her belt. To be tricky id trim for afternoon wear, your ool sports frock will be set off by .bellor colored alligator and shoes ¡ad handbag to match. And, slnco i! Is qulle the thing to be initiated, apt to have your John Hen* ;n the new gold and Bilver 
¡¡¡¿'belts for daytime and evening
alssance to inspire them. The din- wns are now twice as glam- •with the goid ropes, silk ropes, or peavl ropes studded with Uny seed pearls girdling them.A quite amusing novelty is.th« Bumoniere (alms hog—it you don’l biow your french) belt with little &Ured kid nurses banging from the side. Don't we wish that all those poises could he filled t 
Our nimble-fingered sister could 
nake polo belts of crocheted string.. In white and vivid colors, these novelties are really quite stunning.Cellophane Is In again, but quite startling so this time. It seems that Ibis material, if one can call Itthat; Is not content to be made up Into or jackets. Indeed, no! It be everything—and so It is. It bae been woven Into a cellophane cloth and designed into a slinky,
sophisticated evening gown in black, a wrap-around ' will force us to. take seriously.
Three leaders carry off the millin­ery honors this fall; the turban, the oll-the-face, and the forward- moving beret. These hats do give the fullest expression to the impor- tance of smartness today. They not only express and emphasize young ideas; they are the Young Idea, if you know what we mean.•'Paris says pleats, and we echo' Not just a few here and there—as. In former years—but all over, with pleated tops, peplums, “aprons,’ and skirts. Even our new gloves are pleated to match ill* accordion pleated handbags. The newest howl is over the pleated chiffon blouses in bright shades of red and blue.We herald the luxurious new ev ning bag! No longer will you ha’ a bulky package under your ar when dancing with your favorite es­cort, for this bag actually collapses flat. It Is introduced in sumptuous
bag in black suede.
How many times we have the Roselti Evening Wrap sweep dramatically ecross the silver screen and yearned secretly for such splendor. We don't have to look fashion magazines to admire glamour, because it is our turn m . to share its top to toe flattery. In black transparent velvet, lined from hood to hem with luxurious white crepe, we certainly will be regal.Pearls—no matter if it be a three, two, or even one-strand necklace— you simply must have pearls! They supply just the right touch—regard­less of your ensemble. The newest mode Is a tiny cap made ol doable strands for evening wear. It fits on your head like a hat, and is held in place with invisible pins . . .“I say, Plebe! I beg your pardon, but your hat—" How often such mishaps will occur since the hew ¦‘kiltie’' Is being worn. It really looks like • the frosh dink, except that it has two little streamers at the back. Don’t you think we should show a little patriotism and sprout
Judges Show Mope Sense.
In International Sélections
Idealistically Modern 
Paintings Are Not 
Among JPihners
By Olive R. Wolfe and Helen M. Edwards
WVh a sigh of relief, we gazed
Hidalgo de cavides . . . sb afraid vero we that it would be another ‘Soused in Scranton.” The picture
sofa.
"The Shed in the -Swamp” by Charles E. Burchfield received sec­ond prize, it is a damp looking walercolor full of raw, gloomy at­mosphere. created perhaps by the ravens or his extensive use of black.
îornbor hucd canvas that real­istically displays botk the treach­ery and the calmness of the sea. "Still Life” by Albert Saverys, bo received first honorable .men- on is very interesting in color ina pattern, although the subjects could be most anything and still I've the same result.Candido Portinary won second )Dorable mention, with'his can- 183 “Coffee,” a composition • rich ja soft brown and grey-green tones,
Women’aAtkieiies
By MARGIE GREEN
had by . all. 
90 tne w. A. A. Hallowe'en of course. In spite of our jnaims for the reaction of college "»ning youth .toward jogging along 
roads In such a primitive renicle as a wagon, with a little cetiy hay strewn here and there w atmosphere,, our Skibos reveal- 
hrm ®s aa Pure and simple 'irs at heart. Furthermore, 
to my surprise, the hay was merely “strewn here and «ere ’ but was piled Into high «winds, giving an odor that , was 
¦J Im least bit "smelly.” gWW ¦uh Mary Lord's portable vlctrola ward, and Nettle Nugent's "Top i' records, the ride proved to be «1 collich-llke.. Doctor Lang Interest.of quite a few J ' when I was a boy" stories; " »ct, we shall hold him respon­se tor any sleigh rides that might Place ia the future; t see by the ,papers that some of 
re»?10’3 fair archers ;rated some ¿r <av3-^tl© ptibILctty^?/;Pevirii'ya' „i1? recognition by the gentlemen 
w-.,e presa explains the keen com- (mm that archery is giving its *iQoor neighbor, hockey. Atleast, «« ormer seems to appeal more to a ^P?erclassmen than.'ddesVhocfc 
bL * cl* can bpaat of only a ;ooe- , “team for both Juniors and sen- 2*- Can it be that our older co- IL... acquiring a sense of dignity uni h,nders them from: .romping ^er.aad .yott wltt-hdckey sticks? '¿.^eeant Sommers is stlll givlng uJ hundred-strong freshmen :turn- 'workout in sighting and'alm- I* who knows what :rlfle:talent 
¿mi uncovered ' during . these ffi,Mrlei! (His favorite protege 
fcii e year bas just recently staB: b0nn orward Into' the ranks..of; an 
colonel In' the.R.. O.T. C., v>.._ aN goes to show that hegood shot when he i
but which is inclined to be a lit­tle bit “muralish.
"Sun and Sea” by Peter Deberitz ceived tl ~ i is skilcolors, but the result is not effec­tive, due to his lack of intei subject matter.- - •
Fourth honorable mention, "Aus-
Maurice de Vlaminck for his canvas “Flowers,” which orful bouquet very simply express­
ed.Those among the' Carnegie 1 ulty who had pictures entered.in the Exhibition were Alexander J. Kostellow, Roy Hilton, Samuel Rosenberg, and Everett Warner.'For the benefit of those who a planning to see the International we suggest that particular. i tion be given • to John Cai delicate ,canvas entitled “Sleep­ing;” Gerald Brockhurst's realistic portrait; Eugene Speicher’s "An-
‘East Tenth Street Jungle;” and last but certainly not least Picas- ange concoction of sawdust,
Bette? and Safer- — 
Planes Are Sought
j’rem Poire 1 1 
cerned purely with experimental 
developments and does not engage 
in commercial manufacture of 
planes.
Mr. Tucker came to Carnegie Tech late in September to take ad­vantage of the equipment available.
facilities of thé Department of Aeronautics ' at Carnegie good as are avallabale at any school
Four students have acted i sistants for Mr. Tucker since he has been at work here. To these men, be said, he was particularly grateful for their cooperation. They are: Robert ¡Gilson, William Daugh­erty, (Robert Halil, and Harold Mltcbner.
____ PUP£ET N?_TIC_§
Important meeting for circulation stair of Puppet and all those Inter ested in circulation staff, this after noon at 4:30 in Room 12, Industries 
Hall. '' '• . •' ¦
HOLIER SKATING 
THE LEXINGTON
: Always a Nice Crowd of the, > : uNJeest People-------7310 Penn Ave-, Cor. Lexington Phonc CHurchllt 9460
;1o3l -dr931ggO 
TSF5NICLEANING. .. ^ .PRESSING 
4620 FORBES STREET 
Phone: SChénley ¿348
Will Tell of Interesting 
Technical Developments 
On Carnegie Campus
YOU MAY DONATE
re Ph.D’s Participate 
In Discussions Of 
Math Seminar
’here s represents the sum of the events in the world of science and technique which possesses' a cam­pus interest. Newspapers in gen­eral are 'just devices for publishing time derivatives. . The.' motive of this column is to b.egln the regular study of this function: to collect and exhibit.a little of what goes, on both here at school and outside that is of timely interest ia the field of science. The only way in which this effort can be continued Is by receiving cooperation from a num­ber of correspondents on campus;you feel that thts column should continue (with Improvement, of —irse) comunicate with the col-
Thero are several regular meet­ings on campus at which ds/dt Is looked into os far as a particular field goes. Among these are: Physics Collogulum, Chemistry Seminar, Chemical Engineering Seminar, Civil Engineering Seml- Electrical engineering Semi- and Metallurgy Seminar. TheBe are regularly — scheduled subjects. There are, in addition, graduate seminars In modern phys­ics, conducted by Dr. Stern and the staff of the Molecular Research Laboratory; In physical chemistry, by Drs. Warner and Seitz; and reputedly hlghly-esoterlc semlni in mathematics, whose whole nudl- s consists In Drs.-Dlnes. Hicks, ikowltz, Rosenbach, and T. L. Smith! No regular schedules are a]lab1e for these. The engineer­ing societies, such as the AIEE and ASCE and others, sponsor student seminars at regular intervals. The- Tau has lately begun to air tech­nique of the inexact sciences .(or arts) to its members.
Nothing is so interesting as con­troversy. Difference of opinion Is 'esponslble for horse raceB, crap shooting, debates, and divorces. 'A ‘ jrming hero at Carnegie the musically-minded; de­fending on the nature of their in- The bone of contention Is Hammond electric ‘ organ, miscalled the plpeless pipe organ, haven’t seen it, know that It
te amplifier. The keys control complex system of sine-w* generators, whose output is fed powerful audio amplifier and then o two loud-speakers. The fgenerated by toothed wheels
synchronous motor. These wheels
consequent fluctuations In current
,Dr. Koch, instructor In organ, lys it Is capable of truly remark­able results if played well, but hes- i to compare it with the organ.
sand dollar piped rival, and Is i reft! Instrument In Its own right.Student opinion differs- widely; organ students are generally
refuses to settle the controversy.
Query: How do all the mapsyearly made, of th^ campus com
What could- be done with i twelve-inch refractor .at Carnegie.1 We have one.What is the subject, of the new model In Hydraulics Lab?When does the Glider Club crack up Its ships? And how!The answers to these are some­where. Would you like to see them? And have you any quefi' tlons of your'own? .._______•'
Men Crochet, Women Work
In Land of Carnegie Student
Nancy Hezlep Recounts 
Experienies in India, 
Country of Birth
MISSIONARY FATHER 
INSTRUCTS NATIVES
Some Are Converted, While 
Others Pretend in Order 
To Get Benefits
By Jare Mason.Would you like to live in a land 
where the men sit at home doing 
exquisite, fancy work while the wo- 
trudge along the streets with 
heavy packs on their backs and 
baskets balanced on their heads? 
You would? Then start treeing to India, for Nancy Hezlep assures’ ’ould fiud that mode of living there. Miss Hazlep '3S.
i in Jhnnsi, India,
Pittsburgher, is a missionary to In
onsists of four children, Nancy
j to America, where she at­tended Wooster College for two •ars. “However,” said Miss Hez- iep, “this is not my first glimpse of America, for I had a year of kindergarten and my freshman
has had a great* deal of schooling In India; a very interesting educa­tion, from what she tells us. It would see>m strange
left Jhansl every March and went up into the Himalayas to a board-
Same Studies 
The curriculum at Woodstock differs very little from that of any
would be inclined to think that In any place as far away aB the Him­alayas,* reading, writing, and arlth-. metlc would certainly not be like our learning here; but;it iSi’ and' Nancy could recount as much American hlBtory and geography as any one educated in this coun­try. In addition, she has studied history of Great Britain, also In­dian history and geography, and she is. able to read and speak Hin-
Every January Miss Hezlep
It; but she did not spend all h< time there. Her father did itiner­ary preaching, which made it nec­essary for him to go Into the out-
weeks at a time; Nancy lived In tent which they would set up. 1 the- midst of -one of these isolat-ed villages. ' "When- you - ask-her. if she enjoyed this life, she Immedl- ,8tly says, yes.- “I like the nàtives,” Nancv said. “They are not so much unlike we are.' Of: course there :aTè thé agreèablé and the! disagree­able. but one; finds-them in every country. Some of. my, test'friends Indian girls,-one of-.whom I
till.to . .frequently. „Shewrites' to me' in ti'industanTaiid' 1 reply In English.
DWerslons.-Slmjlar “The means of 'diversion' about the same in India too. We played tennis, went to the
NATIVE LIFE IN INDIA
r# » ^
S'
* Shan6l. where the home of Nancy Hezlep '38 16 located.
without my brothers or father until year I was graduated from Woodstock.”
Concerning the mode of living
those who went over to teach tho life of Christ really accomplished great deal. “They do and they don’t," answered soua Hezlep. “I
may benefit by the things the mis­sionaries do for them. Then, too, the preachers have a very difficult situation with which to cope. You see, many Indians come to America other country for their higher education, and while there they mingle with the people there. Many of these Indians come back to India disillusioned with way of living. They think we practice, the Christianity
pericncfes to their countrymen we some of the most faithful fol­lowers of our religion.>- Cites Caste System : “The only way we, in India, can remedy this is to set as perfect an example as we can.” Miss Hez­lep believes It is Important that the Indians be guided, so that their Imillve beliefs may be eliminat­ed As an example of their prlmi- tlveneSB. Miss . Hezlep cited the ite system. No person of one Caste may «touch the food or drink of anothei c^ste, she said. If they do", 'the footl Is contaminated and cannot ,J)e eaten. “For instance," she explained, “I had'an Illiterate old Indian nurse, who was a stanch believer in.; the caste system. I re­
placed on the table for. herself, and my* nurse' flew ai me In such torrov that I assure, you I never repeated such an act."; When we in America think of India, ouv minds usually revert to the problem of British, rule. Is it desirable? Could the natives pro­gress without it? Nancy Hezlep enlightens us on that subject. “If
probability Russia or Japan, would Immediately conquer her. I think India could not progress Indepen­dently.”British Rule Valuable When we asked If she thought that the constant dissatisfaction was in the majority or the minor­ity, Mies Hezlep said that It was those who aspired to political 'lead-
tlves merely listened nnd accept­ed. Those who do not accept are treated wim force. She said oue could not walk down the street without having a copy of Congress, the Independence puper handed to
“If India could only renllzo how profitable British rule is,” said Nancy. “They' derive innumera­ble beueflts from It.” Great Britain flue school systems In India, only a small fee Is required attendance. Universities and colleges have, .been established for Ihe Indians f their whole' stratum of civilization •. haB been elevated because of British supervision. A majority of the villages have
will render this service free of charge to any native.Tourists Unwise Nancy said' that it is nothing
of the male natives, pleading with
of midwifery. "You can perceive how the British help the Indians, can’t you?” asked Nancy. “I can think of only one thing which makes them dislike the invasion of the English. That Is, that British tourists, and American tourists aB well, treat the natives' roughly!We asked Miss Hezlep If. she pre­ferred America to India. She made no definite answer. Her school In­terests are here, but her parents Id India; each countrj
girl, for she told me, “ I dldn’ oxpect my family home until 193S, but the >other day . I received a let­ter with the news that perhaps my family, .will be homo In the spring/' And'that should make soaa Hezlep happy enough so that she would oversome any homesickness for her home In faraway India.
TIERNAN’S
CAFE
Phone SChenley 9605
SPECIAL LUNCHES 
SEA FOOD
Opposite Forbes Field
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE. AND 
' STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS $14,35 T0 -S75J0
Liberal Terms ... Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITER
First Three Months’ Rental Applies to Purchase Price. '
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
YOUR CAMPUS DRUG STORE
_____
Specials....
Gordon’s Cold Capsules............. ............50c
Gordon’s Ephedrine Oil___ ___39c
- • Cold Combination
$3 25 Wahl Eversharp Pen and Pencil___$1.95
• Medico Pipes .. ........ . . .$1.00
49c Eversharp Pencil . . ... 29c
Schick -Electric Razor ................ . $15.00
•
LUNCHEONETTE SERVICE
...Try Our Noon 25c Special
Free Delivery Service : Call Schenley 6300
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
•THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Carnegie’s World-Wide Fame Brings 
Cosmopolitan Croup Here to Study f
Students'from Foreign Soil 
Give Their Impressione 
Of This Country
3 represented In tho present Car­
dia. Norway, Phiilipliie Islands. South Africa, South America, nnd Sweden.Outside of Pennsylvania. Ohio
¡lmsotts, 22; Mlc—gart, 17; Illinois, 13: Maryland, 13; aiul Conuectlcut,
pciitment of Printing lias the out of Btnte students;..33 out of 70. Students coming
looKlng at us In terms of their homelands. Tngo Bolander, Depart­ment of Printing, cam© from Swe­den to study under Porter Garnett who resigned during the summer. Bolander, who had studied la In­dia, Germany, England, and Swe­den, says that though Carnegie Tech is very thorough in her
ond’c fellowship. “Europeans 'do-- not regvd ¦' American girls, very highly,” says Bolander. In the brief time he has been here, how*. ever, he has found them more gracious and handsome than girls anywhere else. Though,be speaks English very easily, Bolander says' that American Is something else again.
Canada sent ub Dorothy Sher- - man. Miss Sherman, after a' year Ontario Agriculture College, . came to tho Fine Arts School b&> cause, she thought it had. the. best Painting find. Drawing course In the country. Her.sole complalnt.so far Is the red tape she liad to go through ,hi.entering the country. .Though born lu the Unlted Stateo, Miss Sherman- is a Canadian cltj> zen—she likes America bolter/but prefers Canada for a rest. '•
Antonia Prendea came all tho way from Guatemala to study Eu- gineerlng at Carnegie. .When .he graduates, however, he Is golng to stay in the United States where, as
Tech, Mv. prendes studied ln Eng- land. When asked to compare English and American StudentB, he
the. opinion—"American boys
Secretarial Staff 
Plan First Issue 
Of Publication
llcatlon of the Department of Secretarial Studies, to be in clronla- Uon by the end of October. This paper was started four years ago by Mrs. Cranna, Instructor In bus­iness methods, as a project' in teaching the use of the mimeo­graph and the mimeoscops. Most of the stencils used in printing this paper are cut out by the senior olass and the colleae class in bus­iness methods.As a rule, four iBsues are print­ed each year—the first during Oc­tober, the socond for Christmas, the third, for Easter and the last for Exhibition Night As.lt la es­sentially not a news paper, there o hard . and fast rule about the contents. iThe first IsBue ' will contain gossip from the junior, senior, and. collego graduate claèdes; . secre­tarla! .alumnae uews;. secretarial personalities (well-known members of the department); the Secre­tary's wardrobe (a fashion col­umn); and interesting jobs of alum-
The staff 1b chosen by the editor.
senior editor, itae Jones ’36; Jnnlor editor,. Mary Louise Pickett '36; college grad editor, Vida
m tha Beautiful j~‘-
GEORGIAN 
toth* ROOM, iCM latinq Masxcf ¦.fBUZ2Y" KOUNTZ ¦.]• ondhisOtthairA ‘ ¦¦¦• j-.-si 
HAMMOND ORGAN <lk'
WEBSTER-HAILj
SEND YOUR 
LAUNDRY HOME / 
^RAILWAY 
EXPRESS
Well call for it, whisk it away. ; 
and bring it back again. Railway . 
Express : service is safe, swift-', 
and sore. • Economical, too-r- 
rates are low—and our “send- - 
lDg-itadUect” service is partie-, : 
ularly popular. Prompt piclc-up 
and delivery service in all im­
portant cities and towns. • For. 
service or information telephony -
Atlantic 3600 .
Depot Office 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
Atlantic 3600 Pittsburgh. Pa
Twct,wb dNvjduuAGBNCY JNÇy ¦ ¦ ¦
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
TUNC IN OH THE HAJLWAV EXPRESS NEWS PARADE Er*ry mk fwç. A* foftevlas cario«;
W^W IwFAA «EYA^U^X.KOTP • ROMO *WBAL «KOIL VKtalcò for lotti ooMUMvaaat*
926 Penn Avi
Have You Seen the New
SPfttDE KGATS
. They're Pnced Low
• • . ¦.—See—
M. LEVEN,.Locker. 1966-E.H.
Plebes!!
DO YOUR “SKIBO DUTY” 
at the
DORMITORIES 
POOD SHOP
107 WELCH H^IL 
Albert SbylocK-lAShafferf
ÉÊ,—

---------------------------------------------------

General News-Editorial Com- 
ment-Fraternal Organizations
- Council Interprets Rules 
Autoistj’ C. C. C.—Editorial
Auloists’ C. C. C.
L'.-X
V ;
maxI
¦J:
lift
|l
The current nation-wide agita­
tion against reckless driving can 
not De over-emphasized, for the 
ever' increasing number of deaths 
and injuries caused by automobile accidents is really appalling. With last'year’s total cau6alties In Alle­gheny county surpassed during the tint ten months ol the present year, it becomes necessary for every automobile driver to be the alert and to exercise the three C’8 of motordom, namely Care, Caution and Consideration.
' You can’t be too Careful. Abide by the regulations governing op­ération of motor vehicles. The State will , supply any one request­ing such information with a book­let of the motor vehicle code. • Be­ware of the other fellow who in­sists upon taking o chance. Thé nesV ümé'><fti^ô'-through' '‘A‘'Stop
' You can’t be too Cautious. Don’t rely too mueh upon your brakes and drive slowly. Remember that the faster you live, the fewer your days. Take the crest of a hill cauti- ouely and be ready for anything that may be approaching- from the opposite direction. The while line .in' the center of the road is there for a purpose. Use your half of• the road but don’t take It out of ¦. the middle. Be cautiouB when driv-• jog where cars are parked or where . trnillc is congested, for someonemay step out in front Nof you. Of course, you say you are In the ' right, but remember the pedestrian has the right of way at all times, ;..and there isn't any law that gives you the right to take a life or maim 
a-body.- ' You can’t be too Considerate. Tho other fellow has as much right to expect you to obey the law .'as you have, to expfect the same of him. Signal when turning.or stop­ping. Don’t turn into a moving . lane at. an intersection. Keep to the right lane if you intend to make a right turn. Dim your lights ¡when approaching.vehicles. Exer- - .else evovy precaution for safety that you expect the other fellow to observe. .Don’t rely too much upon your supposedly Infallible Judge­ment to anticipate the behavior of other cars on the road. The law !;of; averages is against you for hu­man nature is a funny thing; poo- pie change their minds too often:
.-motor vehicle traffic. Legislation .may be devised limiting the power and speed which can be built into a: car.. Possibly a. more rigid teBt for drivers wllh: a period of proba­tion will help. In Rusala( a motor­ist's license Is. permanently revok-- :ed when he kills a pedestrian; 'A 'locomotive engineer .must haveyears of experience before he is givena'train/ And a locomotive' haB r.its. path prescribed for it while an ••auto goeB wherever the driver wlllsi;'An annual death Tate In the tens of.thousanHs and Inluries number- .•ing-millions do not seem to bring v people to realize the terrible dan- ;'ger to which humans are subjected when they «venture out on the . streets. If an equal number were ... killed and wounded in a war, the '..pacifists would be shouting from- Ihe housetops about .the whole­sale slaughter and history would be made. By constant practice of- the golden rule, the three C’s, Carefulness, Caution, and Consider­ation. will become part of your creed and the world will become a/ sate place in which to live.'
‘ Alfalfa Ike—What happened >to that tenderfoot who was out here last week?' ^Badger • Pete—Oh, he was brus-
. A‘ biology professor at Allegheny College gave his class a brief quizz ..in .which one ot the p.uestions ,:V-‘-tWhen do the leaves' begin to
cHijp(Eanœgt? piatii
Editor. - : EDWARD P. WHITENews.Editor • CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER Staff •• R.A.Lahr A. C. Grimm¦; W. J.Nolgot W. Wesaeley
Supplementary Term 
Grades Do Determine 
Candidate Eligibility
Engineering Nominee Is 
Declared Ineligilile 
By Council Vote
On Thursday evening, October 
24, the Night student 
venod in special session for the 
purpose of Interpreting the eligibil­
ity rules wiin regard to the nation of Mr. R. T. Donovan , who w&s the successful nominee for Treasurer of the Night College of Engineering.The Council uiranhn'oiiBly .decid­ed tbat'.Jn accordance, with tlie eli­gibility rules, the nomination - of Mr. Donovan was not in order and therefore void. As a result, Mr. D. O. Davie, who received the second highest number of votes, was de­clared elected to the office of Treasurer of the College of Engi­neering.The responsibility for the Inter-
dent council. In any controversy
necessity lor Council’s action arose at the recent Engineer’s election. The rule in question appears on page 34 of the night student Hand­book under Section A—Eligibility to hold Office—paragraph 4, and reads as follows: “A student must have earned passing grades in all subjects in the previous term only (or last term enrolled in Night Scbooi).’’ Mr. Donovan, aware of his deficient grade received for the supplementary term accepted the nomination and received the high­est number of votes for the office. After this fact was made known to the assembly, Mr. A. C. Grimm, President of Night Student Council,
no decision could be made on the reseult of the election for that of­fice until Council bad defined^ the status' of supplementary term
Council took immediate action in .is case to preclude the possibil­ity of a similar occuirence in the Industries election. The Council wishes to emphasize the fact that tew rulng has beep made .to r the case, but a proper Inter
MÇflT LIGHTS
Herb Stone led the girl friend 
to the altar last week—to be mar­
ried to someone else . This be­
ing tho seventh time it has hap­
pened, Herb 1s thinking of Incor­
porating blmself as a matrimonial 
agency ... “Poker Potentate" Roup even carries poker chips to school . . . The fellow whose License Number is C9855 goes Chuck Roup one better by bringing his dog to school.
teally three sexes, male, femala, and male-schoolteachers." The de­sign class Isn’t quite the some this' year without'Marjorie Thoma there to throw her paints and brushes around". . . Another deserter from the ranks is RusBell Caywood who is taking psychology Instead, the softy . . . The Chemistry and Physics lab breakage' fees are just beginning to break . . . The pretty red-head by his side makes it easy to pick Joe Tracht out when he
sympathetic audience the next time she thinkB out loud in psych clasB . . . Johnny Schurko’s cun­ning bow tie, that he wears
ingly referred to as “that farmer from Greensburg.
ed it to an Industries poster with the help of an innocent bystander, who supplied the paint . . . Tony
costumesemble a robot . . . Dave Davis’ ambition is to meet the girl in the Chpstevfleld ads—-he. has a yearn­ing for Mildness and Better Taste?
prestation- has been placed o
Arls Group Plans 
Armistice' Dancé
The night College of Fine Arts 
wilt formally open its 1935-36.so­
cial season with an Armistice day 
dance. The event will be held, in 
T.hlstle hall on November 11. Due 
tovtiie fact that no classes will-be 
held on this date, the studients 
will be given their first opportunity 
to relax from their studies and 
should attend the dance. 
cAs in past years, the dance will be free to students registered in the College of Fine Arts. An ad­mission fee of one dollar per cou­ple will bV charged to others. While no definite announcement' has been mado regarding the se­lection of an' orchestra for.. Uie event, It Is rumored that several of the better known orchestras have been contacted. The decora­tions will conform , to the spirit of .the .hQlidsy. . ‘
Council Votes 
Sum For New 
Activity Bldg.
At the last regular meeting of the retiring' Night Student Council, held October 6, the sum of $150 was. voted towards the erection of'a stu­dent Activities building. The money which will be deducted from the 1934-3& Night Student Council sur­plus, will be applied-to the Eudown-
1946 Endownment ,fi to date for an Activities bullding'ls 'approximately $18,150.
The Night Student Council has always realised ihe need of a build­ing which would house all student activities. At the present time, the space provided for the various ac­tivities is entirely inadequate. Un­der the proposed plan, this condi­tion will be eliminated.- During the school- year of 1027-28, the Council first: endorsed this - project, and since that time the fund has stead­ily grown. In-.MdltiQnvto4he>doaa- tlone of the Night and Day student councils toward the Actlvitle|fbulld- ing. many students hare voluntarily donated their locker and breakage fée deposits toward the fund. :
Engineers Hold Successful 
Smoker; Officers Elected
Dr. Jones, Prof. Estep 
Address Group At 
. Annual Meeting
a very successful affair. Approxi­mately 160 students attended and enjoyed the variety of entertah
everyone too.
The festivities were opened by President Vensel who told in a few. wordB the -purpose of the meeting and introduced the guests of the
Increased enrollment of the school and ItB significance. Professor Es­tep then recounted many of hls-in-
an Interesting talk on the place of the well-trained engineer in poli­tics. Mr. McKelway, whose humor-
the humor.
The entertainment consisted of an entire floor show, with the ceptlon of the orchestra, but the versatile M. C. with his subtle hu­mor and musical way with a guitar made up for that-deficiency. The brother and sister' dancing team was the equal of any stage per­formers while the blues singer kept everyone wide awake. Very wide awake, we might add.
The election of officers to i sent the Night College of Engi ing In .the Night Student Council was the next order of the evening, and was conducted under the super­vision of Council 'President A. C- Grlmm. The results of the election are C- J. Blscup, president k Maurer, vice president Cfeo. Mc­Cormack. secretary; and D.' O. Davis,'treasurer.An appetizing luncheon of good old army chow was 'Served in good old army fashion, after which the party broke up with everyone vot­ing the evening a most enjoyable one. It might be well to say that affairs of*.thls kind are worth, at­tending, for they give the night men a closer insight into the oper­ation-of the night-school and 'en­able them to become better ac­quainted with their felloV students. It was fratifylng to s^e: '
’Tis Said
THAT the Editor Is still cele- bratlng hle1 victory ln the-Arts College — absent from his post last Friday.THAT a certain locker was filled with souvenirs recently.THAT Tompko can still read six places on his sllde^rule.THAT by the time this Is pub-
being only five minutes late for their final meeting.THAT Industries students will have enough literature (?) and souvenirs to last till the En» glneers’ Banquet.THAT Wessety discusses, hut ; ,.one ».swbjefct».,, "What, ,l,_ see through the Council window."THAT the young engineers In the Chem. Lab. are having a breaking good time — with the glass tubes. \THAT the-toe dancer at the Engineers’ Smoker has broken many a heart Some feat?THAT the Plaid staff has now become serious, with the excep­tion of Night Lights.THAT Art Grimm is the head or them all—a size 15!THAT any remarks about the bullet pencils will have to be pointed.THAT If you want to Rita you
of .the Arts Col-
For a Beal Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
EAT AT
Mary’s Restaurant
327 South Craig Street.
Near Forbes Street 
- Try Our Special 25c Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIEND6
Special Parking 
Rules Enforced
In addition to the parking rnles published recently.In the Plaid, a few other items are brought to the attention of the students who drive to and from school. For the past week or so, a few careless students have been parking their cars on the park lawn at the curve in the lower end of industries drive. Evidently they fail to realize the consequen­ces ef such acts. In the future, any1 cars so parked will be towed a.way. This will lead to more strict en­forcement of parking regulations with the result tb,at more persons than the offenders will suffer.- By way of illustration, this same situa­tion developed several years ago
tot difficult for thieves to work about cars parked on the cam­pus in the evening, but
fellmWhen you park, place your car fortably close to the next car- iS take more room than your Thé problem of finding more for parking is an acute one £? not abuse the provided space.
Of benefit lo the Night school cd* dents who use the parking lot. the rear of Machinery hall a« n" new guard rails which have hZ- érected ’àt the ¡edge' of the embar? ment. -This improvement not tends to Increase the safety or. ing In the area but also tends tnk crease parking facilities, In >tMé tlon, a new lighting fyelem t, been installed which should heln eliminate some of the exIeUoe h. arde. Students using this areecautioned against backing th* cars IntjO the rail because ot th®a suing gamage to their care, fo«* near future. flood lights « erected in the parking area at garet Morrison college. The w ¦ ig space behind Engineering^]
ini p
SAVE MONEY, too.
Call after 7 P. M..when 
low Night Rates apply 
on all Station-to-Station - 
Calls on which the day
THE BELL ^TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
They ain't stream 
or air conditioned-
but they sure are mild 
and they sure got taste
rr. made of :
mild ripe tobaccos... 
we believe Chester­
fields will add- a- lot: 
ter your pleasure.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
__
