WRITE A SONG 
FOR TECH
ie.s p®Qlljr
$50,000 FOR TECH 
ATHLETICS
VOL. XV NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 23, 1921GET $50,000 OR BUST
DEGREE RING TO BE STANDARDIZED FORJLL TIME
Competition for New Design of 
Ring Open to All Students, 
Alumni and Faculty
FEBRUARY 21 TO MARCH 4
With the approach of the end of 
another scholastic year the matter of 
rings for the graduating class, as one 
of the items in the commencement 
program, has naturally been talcen 
up. A great deal of work and investi­
gation has been done, revealing the 
fact that Carnegie Tech is without a 
standard degree ring. Although there 
are no official records of any action 
taken on the matter there seems to 
have *been several efforts made to that 
•end by classes from 1916 up to the 
[present time. These efforts have been 
only partially successful, mainly be: 
cause the action was not official and 
recorded for the-use of the future 
classes or it was not pushed far 
•enough.
This year an effort is being made 
to settle the matter qnce for all. The 
plans are to adopt a ring which will 
incorporate the better features or the 
rings of past years, with sufficient im­
provement to insure a ring of which,, 
everyone will’ be proud and which 
everyone satisfying the scholastic re­
quirements will b6 glad to wear. The’ 
matter is to be taken up before a 
.joint session of the Executive Board 
-of the Alumni Federation, the Stud­
ent Council and the Ring Committee, 
and then if necessary before the Stud­
ent Body and Alumni Federation. If 
passed upon by these bodies and then 
.finally ratified by the Administrative 
Council there is little doubt that what­
ever-is decided upon will truly be a 
standard. The ring as it has been 
made for the past few years does not 
do justice to the Instituted We want 
a ring that is commensurate with 
other Tech 'standards. In view of sub­
mitting this matter for the necessary 
action the Ring Committee wishes to 
receive the Views of the Student 
Body. If you think the ring as it 
stands for any year to be satisfactory 
we ^mt you to say so; if not we want 
your ideas of a suitable design.
To stimuate responses to this call 
for designs a contest will be opened 
for Campus contributions. A suitable 
prize will be awarded. The following 
resolutions govern the contest:
1. Designs should be submitted in 
pencil, four times the size of the 
ring, on suitable paper. ,
.2. The Design shall be representa­
tive of all divisions.
3. It should incorporate the Thistle 
on the shank and may incorporate the 
seal, the name, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, the letters C. I. T., any 
combination of the above, or any de­
sign suitable to an Institute of this 
kind.
(Continued on Page Two.)
ROUMANIAN NIGHT AT UNION
The Roumanian Night, to be given 
under the auspices of the Roumanian 
Royal Consulate at Pittsburgh, next 
Saturday in the Carnegie Union, prom­
ises to be a real night. “Dem” Diman- 
cesco, the well-known consul-student- 
artist, is going to shine as he will 
have charge of the program, which 
will be concluded by a dance with a 
full orchestra.
Students, non-members of the Cos­
mopolitan Club, wishing to receive a 
special invitation, should apply by 
written request to the club, box 139,
C. I. T. postoffice, not later than to­
morrow.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD MEETING
Teknon Club in Charge of Good 
Samaritan Fund. Musical 
Clubs Ask Increase in Budget
VILLAIN STILL PUR­
SUING AT SOPH SHOW
A meeting of the Student Activities 
Board was held Wednesday, February
16. For the special banner committee 
Miss Finklelior reported progress. For 
the general committee F. I. Smith re­
ported that the Good Samaritan Fund 
for needy Tech students had been 
turned over to the Tecknon Club for 
management. The Rifle Club petition 
for recognition under Student Activi­
ties was tabled for two weeks. A 
petition from the Chess Club was 
tabled indefinitely.
For the club room committee Arnold 
reported in favor of placing the qare 
of the room in the hands of some 
needy athlete rather than engaging 
some outsider for janitor service. Mr. 
Batman reported for the financial com­
mittee. A motion was presented to 
have the books of the various busi­
ness managers audited on or about 
March 1 in order to standardize so far 
as possible the system of bookkeep­
ing.
Mawhinney, speaking for the Musi­
cal Clubs, asked for an increase in 
budget. Lack of interest is develop­
ing among members as a result of in­
ability to finance the various trips. 
The matter was tabled until next 
week.
MEN’S JR. PROM, THE BIG SOCIAL EVENTJAR. II
Schenley Ball Room to be Con- 
verted into Tropical Scene 
with Ferns and Palms
NO FLOWERS TO BE SENT
The ballroom of Hotel Schenley will 
be transformed into a bower of green 
ferns and tropical palms. Tech pen1' 
nants and banners will be used to give 
the scene local color. This will create 
a fine background for dancers.
As in former years the committee 
requests that flowers shall not be 
sent. This is an expense'that doe3 
not add much to the joy of the even­
ing because the flowers are soon de­
stroyed or forgotten. This request is 
made at most-Junior Proms at other 
colleges.
The sale of tickets closed last Fri­
day but anyone who has made a re­
quest or could not obtain tickets for 
some good reason may secure a pass 
from some member of the isommittee.
The Junior class is again urged to 
co-operate with the committee so as 
to make the event something that 
every member of the class can look 
back at as the best time they had 
during the college course.
The complete program of music and 
other details will be announced next 
week.
SOPHS TAKE HON­ORS AT SCIENCE STAGJMOHER
Second Year Men Carries Hon­
ors of Evening — Director 
Mott and Dean Tarbell Out­
line Future Plans
MIDNIGHT FEED IN BEANEARY
WOODWIND CONCERT AT DESIGN
Big Woodwind concert February 27 
by School of Music. Know what it 
meaus? Well woodwind instruments 
are flutes, reed instruments, such as 
clarinets, oboes, saxes, bassoous and 
Chinese musetts. This will be some­
thing different. Come and hear it. 
Among things will be a B.eetlioven 
sextet and two trios, A Schubert octet 
(and some other stuff.
Don't forget March 13. Design Sym­
phony Orchestra Concert in Camegle 
Music Hall. Lotza symphonies, con­
certos, etc. J. Yic O’Brien, the head 
syinph, extends a special invitation to 
Tech people. Drag your wife there. 
It doesn’t cost anything.
SOPJI HOP PROVES 
BRILLIANT SUCCESS
We are stating that when the 
Sophs step out, they step. The Soph 
hop was better than last year; the 
year before. Previous to this time we 
must base our comparison on assivmp-' 
tion. No hop past or future, can or 
could surpass the one given by the 
second year men last Thursday night 
at Hotel Schenley. It was the result 
of the work of a committee which 
might be said consisted of the entire 
class. Dancing 'commenced, at 9 
o'clock and at 1 the exodus back to 
Tech. Then the event became a mat­
ter of history.
BUFFALO CLUB SMOKER
CO-EDS TEAM FORCES 
GENEVA TO LIMIT
Geneva Girls Play Wonderful 
Game—“Pep” Lots of it— 
Girls Fight Hard
For two days the villain will pursue 
her. Does he catch her? Come and 
see. You never can tell, you know. 
Whatever happens, you are guaran­
teed one great time. For the fair coy- 
eds we hold out the inducement of 
our wonderful gowns. The lihops of 
Lucille, Poiret, Stein and Blaine are 
working night and day on creations 
designed to be the envy of Theda 
Bara herself.
Scientists, psychologists, industrial 
workers, architects, all these and 
many more will find something—and 
something else, to interest them. 
Don’t come prepared to see a show 
such as Ziegfeld might produce. This 
is different. Veiy different. Largely 
different. All great things are differ­
ent. You and I for exambple.
Here you've learned some of our 
secrets! Well, this is a matter strict­
ly between me and you, mostly me, 
and the rest, you and all of the cam­
pus, including the bricks. A brick, 
you know, is one who has tried out 
in a beauty contest, and lost on ac­
count of lack of evidence.
The race between the dark villain 
and the fair heroine takes place in 
the Margaret Morrison gymnasium on 
the nights of March 11 and 12. Re­
member, wev shouldn’t have to go to 
you to sell tickets. It's in your in­
terest that you come to us to buy 
your tickets.
Immediately after the Tech-TJniver- 
sity of Buffalo game on Thursday, 
February 24, the Buffalo Club will 
hold what is destined to prove a real 
smoker. The smoker will be held in 
the Science club room and if possible, 
the University of Buffalo basket ball 
team will be in our midst as guests. 
It is up to every man from the Queen 
City to# Ibe at the smoker to show 
these guests just what kind of a peppy 
bunch of fellows we are; to let them 
know what Tech is. More than this, 
the gmoker is the one big chance to 
meet all Buffalonians at Tech. Turn 
out men and support it by your pres­
ence. That is little enough to ask, in­
asmuch as the committee . in charge; 
is working hard on the entertainment 
and stunts. Smokes, eats and music 
will feature besides the .various stunts 
which have been worked into shape 
for the evening. A few minutes of 
the smoker will be devoted for a short, 
snappy business meeting. Hereafter 
meetings will be more of a social 
nature and the business will be taken 
care of in a shorter order to provide 
for the entertainment program of the 
meeting.
From the records, there are 45 men 
from Buffalo registered in Tech. Of 
this total only half show up for the 
meetings. The club needs the support 
of eveiy man registered in school from 
our home town.
With the last meeting a constitution 
and by-laws was submitted for ap­
proval by the committee in charge. 
After some discussion and criticism, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
"Perfectly strenuous” was the ex­
pression used by Dean Scales, but the 
writer, not possessed of such a high 
degree of finesse, could only class it
as "a------ of a battle.” What? You
weren’t there? Well, you slacker. Al­
though the girls varsity basket ball 
team did not do to Geneva what they 
promised, nevertheless our fair visit­
ors were forced to extend themsolves 
to the limit to come out of the game 
with 18 points in their favor to the 
10 attained by the Tech girls.
We nee.d not be down hearted over 
the numerical defeat for in the last 
analysis that is all it amounted t.p. To 
expect an overwhelming defeat of 
Geneva would have been too much 
for it was a case of long experience 
against first attempt and I assure you 
it was a mighty good one. Our only 
regret it that this was the only game 
of the season for the contest was 
treat that one could only wish for 
more often. The lineup:
Geneva 18 Tech 10
Clyde ..................F.................. Winner
Bell......................F......................Taylor
Aiken ...................C............... Snyder
Milligln ............\C................. Eakin
Ranch....................G.......................Frist
Lee .....................tG................ Craver
Substitutions—Schwecker for Tay­
lor, Dickson for Snyder, Taylor for 
Craver, Bond for Dickson. Referee 
Miss Y. Seavor.
The Sophomores carried away all 
honors at the Science Stag Smoker in 
the Langley Laboratory Saturday 
evening. The little room, going west, 
on the third floor, was the motive of 
their little act and it was well met.
Dean Tarbell, first actor of the Mott- 
Tarbell Troupe, prpespented a gen­
eral survey of Carnegie Tech activi­
ties. The high spots of Tech spirit he 
briefly mentioned, coming Anally to 
the present athletic drive.
A. graduate manager for student 
activities was another suggestion that 
Dean Tarbell mentioned—a man to be 
responsible fOr all non-athletlc activi­
ties in the 'same way that Frank 
Haaren looks after athletics.
Speaking of the scholastic attain­
ment and desires of Science school, 
Dean Mott explained the purpose of 
Tau Beta PI. Not only must a man bo 
more than an average student, but he 
must be out among his follow stud­
ents working for the welfare of the 
student’s life. He also made announce­
ment of elections to Tau Beta PI, 
(Continued on Page Four.)
COLGATE QUINTET 
DEFEATED BY PLAID
Tartan Five Shows Up Well on 
Colgate Court; Close Score, 
37-36
Last Wednesday night, on the Col­
gate University court, Carnoglo Toch 
defeated the fast Colgate quintet by 
the score 37-36.
The game was an exceptionally fast 
one and the excellent team work of 
the Plaid was one of the features’ of 
the game. At the end of the first half 
the score was 22 to 17, Toch alioad. 
During tjie second half the Colgate 
five tightened their guarding and the 
Tech boys were forced to their ut­
most to cage their shots.
Iioppee, a new addition to the for­
ward berth, with Dosey, scored most 
of the points for Tech. Nichol also 
showed up well, scoring four field 
goals. The lineup:
Colgate 36 Tech 37
Anderson ...........F............. Hoppee
Barnes ...................F.................. Dosey
Leonard ...............C...................... Bell
Linnehan ..............G.............. Pittman
Herrmann.............G............. Nichol
Field goals—Colgate, Anderson 4, 
Barnes 2, Leonard 2, Linnehan 2, 
Hermann 4; Carnegie, ^Hoppee 3, Do­
sey 2, Bell, Pittman 3, Nichol 4. Foul 
goals—Anderson 8, Dosey 11. Referee, 
Jacobs of Rome. Time of halves—20 
minutes. \
INDUSTRIES HAS QUIET 
ASSEMBLY FOR PLEBES
VARSITY RIFLE TEAM 
MAKES CREDITABLE SHOWING
The Tech Rifle team concluded its 
schedule in the N. R. A. matches on 
February 12. The shooting from the 
prone position was satisfactory, but 
that from the standing position shows 
room for improvement. However, the 
showing made was very creditable, J 
considering the time the men have 
been practiding. Four men on the 
varsity team never handled a rifle un­
til they joined the club. This shows 
that it is not necessary for one to be 
a first rate shot to join the club and 
steady practice will make a first class 
shot out of anyone who isn't blind in 
both eyes.
There are vacancies on the varsity 
squad and the managers believe that 
with the members shooting regular, 
enough first rate material will be 
found to more than plug up these 
gaps.
Ten Winchester rifles have been re­
ceived and will be placed in service 
immediately. Every member is re­
quested to report as often as possible 
(Contlnu'dd on Page Three.)
VARSITY DEBATING
TEAM SELECTED
Eight Chosen From Twelve at 
Final Tryouts to Represent 
Tech Against W. & i. and W. 
V. U. APRIL 15
TOUCHDOWN DAY STILL jNCOMPLETE
Returns Indicate About One 
Half of Our Subscription for 
Every Man—Students Still 
Working
The final elimination contest for the 
selection of the Varsity Debating team 
was hold Thursday evening in Design 
school. The task set up before, the 
Judges proved to bo far from easy, 
for each, contestant put forth his 
best efforts aud from the line of 
material presented It is certain that 
W. & J. will find It just as hard to 
provo that tho states should not. es­
tablish courts of industrial relations 
as West Virginia will find it difficult 
that the several states should. This 
is essentially the topic of debate for 
April 15 and tho eight men chosen 
will begin immediate work on tho 
question.
That tlie first donating team put 
out by Tech will make a name for 
itself is assurod for and from the, fact 
that each and every man clioson' has 
had, a broad scholastic experience 
at several largo colleges. Thoso chosen 
for tho team woro as follows1: Messrs. 
Goundry, La.wronco, Loury, lyicRae, 
Roilly and Whitehead. Bowors and 
Reaves woro chosen alternatives.
SPAIN -SOUTH SEA ISLES 
ALL AT “SHIP AHOY”
Somo real show this musical com­
edy, "Ship Ahoy.” It will not bo an 
amateur production but a first class 
down town performance. There will bo 
four scones, a port, in Spain aboard 
ship, under tho sea in Davy Jones’ 
looker and on an' Island in tho South 
Soas. The plot contors around a 
young American traveling. Ho is vory 
attractive and susceptible to tho 
whims and caprices of women.
The book is complete and the ro- 
hearsals are being conducted daily. 
Twelve musical^ now and original, 
have been written. The entire show, 
Including songs, are to bo the product 
of the students.
The preliminary tickets, which can 
later be exchanged for reserved seats, 
will be out this week. This is the 
only way a student can .reserve a seat 
for no tickets will be Issued until 
Thursday, March 3. If you men want 
to take the girls, you must see a sales­
man Immediately to secure seats.
PHYLLIS PF0UTS LEADING
Touchdown Day, launched with a 
free feed, and everybody on their toes 
at the kick-off, proved to be the rod 
letter day hoped for, and results from 
the day’s activities of tho Tech stud­
ent body indicate that every man- 
jack and co-ed on the campus brought 
in at least a half of one subscription 
to the A. E. F. At tho time of going 
to press tho student total was in­
complete, duo to lateness of reports 
from many individual students and 
class chairmen, but It is tlibught that 
tho closing of. the student report will 
demonstrate that some sort of effort 
was made by every under-grad.
Phyllis Pl’outs, prominent in De­
sign Sohool activities, aided and abet­
ted by one or two associates, has per­
haps producod tho host results of tho 
entire student body, although her 
efforts have not boon confined to one 
day, but have taken place during tho 
entire period of tho drlvo. Working 
under handicaps, because, of iter class 
schedule, and with a list of prospects 
entirely by herself and associates, sho 
aocurod an amount larger by far than 
that reported by any other girl or 
man student.on, the campus, and run­
ning a close race with many entire 
fratornlty groups.
Other students have made high 
marks in the campaign, and report 
that with the additional opportunity 
afforded through tho next week that 
they oxpoct to double or triple thoir 
subscriptions. Three ntudontH, fired 
with the real Toch spirit, have aban­
doned thoir jobs for tho woolc, and 
faking chancos on getting them back 
at tho conclusion of the drive, so 
that they may put ovory possible ef­
fort into the work. Others luivo 
offered their services for duty at tho 
headquarters in Mr. Ha/aron’s ofilco, 
where already several have boon em­
ployed at typewriting and clerical 
work.
'Students havo reported raising 
funds by writing to rolatlyos, friends 
and posslblo future Tochltos, who will 
thus share In advance In the fruits 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
CLEVELAND CLAN EXHIBITS
Owing to the absence of President 
Hammann, P. D. Good officiated at the 
Industries weekly assembly. The as­
sembly- received a rare treat when 
“Nathaniel” Cassidy led his trained 
animals to the foreground and put them 
through their tricks. The luckless 
“animals” happened to be the Plebes 
who thought themselves above at­
tending assembly. The ‘‘Bath Robe” 
quartet won the hearts of the audi­
ence (they couldn’t win the ears, as 
they were all stuffed with cotton) with 
their touching melodies of love and 
pathos. It really was pathetic and 
the Plebes can thank their lucky stars 
that they got out of it alive. The 
quartet was accompanied by the 
‘‘Stringers” and rendered several se­
lections which were supposed to be 
"When Becky Comes Back From 
Mecca,” ‘‘The Curse of an Aching 
Heart” and “There’s a Broken Heart 
for Every Light on Broadway.”' Tho 
next event was a wrestling match be­
tween a Plobe and himself—the loser 
to receive 10 cracks of the paddle. The 
Plebe lost—greatly to his surprise. 
The next victim gargled milk from an 
eye dropper, probably it was “bean- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Cleveland Clan has been doing 
some novel work in the way of ad­
vertising Tech. For the past two 
weeks they have had on exhibition at 
the Builders’ Exchange in the Rose 
Building on Ninth street, collections 
of pictures and drawings loaned by 
the Division of Arts of Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology. This collection 
is composed of some architectural 
drawings, life and still-life drawings 
in charcoal and paintings in oil and 
water colors. The collection has been 
inspected by all of the high school 
students of Cleveland, as well as the 
art students of Case, Western Re­
serve and the Cleveland Arts Insti­
tute. The American Institute of Arts 
has co-operated heartily with tho 
Builders’, Exchange and the Cleve­
land Clan is advertising the collec­
tion. Practically every architect In 
town has arranged to have his entire 
o/llco staff view the pictures and draw­
ings.
Arrangements havo boon complotod 
to show tho Tech moving pictures In 
all of the high schools of Cleveland. 
In addition a meeting of tho Builders' 
Exchange will be devoted entirely to 
Tech, at which time tho pictures will 
.'be shown and somo one from Tech 
will give a talk on our school and its 
functions.
THREE TECD PLAYS 
AT ARTS THEATER
The most Important event in the 
School of Drama during tho past fort­
night was the premiere on February 
15 ol! “Furrowed Earth,” a new play 
of American life by William Beyer, a 
student of the school. The original 
version of the play is hardly recog­
nizable in the form it has taken since 
its atrocious mutillation. According­
ly it would be unjust to judge Mr. 
Beyer’s work as author or Professor 
Wallace's work as producer from the 
shattered corpse lately on view.
In its original form the play was 
a serious study of the manner of life 
and love of two sisters in a lower- 
middle class household in the Middle 
West. Its chief value lay In its avoid­
ance of the sentimentality which en­
snares the hands of most writers for 
the American stage and wins the suf­
frages of our Philistine audiences. It 
shrewly observed and recorded types 
and situations familiar to most honest 
observers. Its chief values lay in . 
Its characterization of Mrs. Moyer, a 
sympathetic presentation of a blend of 
blind religion and shrewd calculation, 
of the perhaps over-contrasted sisters, 
one, hardened by experience, but stir­
red at the crisis by fine feeling; the 
other, refined and exquisite, and be­
trayed by her vei;y fineness and of tho 
deftly indicated young men., especially 
tho weakling hero, in the original 
version Miss Merlng and Mr. Reid 
In tho most exacting roles, showed 
taste and skill In sharply contrasted 
and difficult scenes, in tho poetio 
scene by the river they achieve high 
beauty. In the truncated formi tho 
chief characters are taken by Miss 
Crowe an Elsie Moyor, Miss Morrison 
as tho mother and Mr. McCluro as the 
suitor. The work of the first two Is 
altogether excellent; Miss Crowe con­
veys the emotional resources of a 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
^

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TATTTAffWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1921
=== (Hij£ (Harlan =====
Published every week by undergraduate» of tho Carnoglo JnBtituto of 
Technology under tlie BUporviiiioM of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered In tho Poatofflce of PlttaburBh au BOCond-claH» matter.
WRITEASOWN K. PAQUIN.............................................................. Bdltor-ln-Chlof
Telephone, Schenley 11180.
DON. A. SII^LiBES ................................................................... GFCWFHii Manager
Tolophone, Schonloy 921.1
WILLtAM D. HALL ................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone, Schenley 11001).
FRED L. KNOWLES.................................................Assistant Managing Editor
STUAllT P. SMITH ..................................................................... Athletic Editor
DONALD S. HAllDJNC! .................................................................... Now» Editor
WILLIAM OBENOUIl ....................................................... Circulation Manager
WILLIAM Jl. MILLS ............................'.......................... AdvortlBlng Managor
EDITORIAL AND NEW8 A86I8TANT8
Kenneth Arnold, Assistant News Editor; Divisional Assistants, Helen 
Lowls, M. M. I).; Charlotte Shuman, Art«; I. SisBinan, Science; B. II. Bolvor, 
Industries; Editorial Assistants, V. II. StromqulBt; L. .T. Whitehead; Night 
School Editor, Edward A. Brand; Assistant Athletic Editor, H. L. Moers- 
feider; ttrtoontst, M. O. Winslow; Photographer, R. H. Guyton.
BU8INE88 A88I8TANT8
D. Sonnemann, Walter Holler and Ackerman.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this papor; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
SPORTSMANSHIP
The Tartan him lately been criticised because of its attitude, as 
expressed in articles on athletic contests, toward the teams of our 
opponents. It has been said that wo are uncharitable, that wc do 
not give them enough credit when they win, and that we virtually 
crow over them when they are defeated. This may be true, to some 
extent, but if so, we are only following the example of every one 
of our contemporaries. And we still believe that if you don’t blow 
your own horn, some one will come along and stuff it with cotton. 
There must, however, be a limit to everything. There is a point 
where loyalty to college and pride in her achievements becomes noth­
ing less than lack of consideration for the other fellow and even 
downright poor sportsmanship.
The celebration of tho 6-0 victory was no doubt warranted. 
The Tartan backed up the demonstrations, and even in our enthu­
siasm, probably played up the event to its very fullest extent. At 
tho same time, we should have been broad enough to see that our 
opponents were mighty good losers. We did realize that fact in 
time to prevent any very great reiteration of our hilarious out­
break. But it seems that the student body in general, or at least 
those who represent them, are a trifle more narrow minded. We 
have learned only recently that the gold footballs given to the 
team members this year havo the score mentioned engraved on them. 
This secerns to us to be carrying the thing a little too far, and we 
do not think that tho attitude expressed by such a step is in accord 
with the feelings of the majority of tho students. At least wc hope 
it is not.
Happenings on the Campus
ARTS AS8EMBLY
THE SCIENCE SMOKER
An editorial referring to the usual vulgarity oi! college smokers 
which appeared in an issue oi! one ol! our exchanges recently caused 
some discussion and speculation on the part ol! the Tartan stall'. We 
•finally decided to wait and see •whether or not an article of like 
nature Would be merited by a similar affair 'which was to be held at 
Tech. The question which we asked ourselves was, “ How will the 
Science stag this weok measure up to the one mentioned in the edi­
torial in questionV” We are glad to say that it measured up in fine 
stylo.
The manner in which the stunts, and the Sophomore stunt in 
particular, wcro presented at the smoker on Friday night refutes the 
general, impression on tho campus that tho grind of technical studies 
destroys all sponUuricty in tho student and renders him incapable of 
appreciation ol! anything alien to his specialty. It might bo said that 
a, Science student, bocauso ol' his constant association with tho more 
serious branches of study, has a better perspective of tlio lighter 
things of life. This would certainly appear to bo true from tho 
nature ol’ tho entertainment enjoyed by tho men present at tho 
Soionoo stag. Tho Sophomores must havo worked long and conscien­
tiously to perfect thoir clever musical comedy. The characterizations 
woro good, tho chorus well o os turned for such an occasion, and’the 
parodies introduced novel and amusing. Tho Scotchman was very 
good, and although he furnished the only portion of tho act which 
was a trifle u thick,’* lie did it in such a sincerely innocent manner 
as to make it altogether excusable.
Those details are only quoted to ;justify our opinion that nothing 
that appeared in tho editorial, mentioned at the beginning ol! this 
could bo applied in the present case. Wo are glad to congratulate 
the Science men on a great improvement over thoir affair of last year.
WRITE A SONG FOR TECH!
STUDENT CALENDAR
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24
Bakct Ball—Tech vs. Buffalo...................................Tcch Field House
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25
M. M. D. Junior Prom....................................................Selienley Hotel
Basket Ball—Tech vs. Georgetown..........................Tech Field House
Basket Ball Dance..........................................................................Union
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26
Cosmopolitan Club Meeting—“Roumanian Night”....................Union
Basket Ball—Teeh vs. Lafayette..............................Tech Field Houss
Basket Ball Dance.............................;.................................. Tech Gym
THURSDAY, MARCH 3
Basket Ball—Tech vs. Bucknell................................Tech Field House
FRIDAY, MARCH 4
“Ship Ahoy”............................................................Schenley Theater
Science Freshmen Smoker ......................................................... Union
SATURDAY, MARCH 5
“Ship Alloy”.............................................................Schenley Theater
Basket Ball Dance .........................................................................Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 11
Men’s Junior Prom..........................................................Schenley Hotel
Scienco Freshmen Dance ...........'................................................. Union
M. M. D. Sophomore Show............................................M. M. D. Hall
SATURDAY, MARCH 12
Arts Freslunon Dance.....................................................Arts Building
M. M. .D. Sophomore Show.............................................M. M. D. Hall
Night ’Industries .Dance .............................................................. Union
SOPHOMORES OR FRESHMEN»J« ——. .J.
•I* Two assistants in tho Olrou- 
•J* lation iDopartmont Knsignia •will * 
•1» 1)o a/wanled to candidates for *5* 
•I* 'work on stab. A ehanoo to got 
*1« into a non-athletic activity. See -J*
? Wm. Obonour, Circulation Man- *? agor. *J*
«j*
? *5« *J* ?
The University of California lion- 
> ors its football varsity of 1920 l>y 
placing a bench on the campus and 
dedicating it to the letter anen.
TAU BETA PI ELECTIONS
At tho annual Science stng smoker 
Director Mott announced tho follow­
ing nominations to Tan Beta Pi:
H. W. Bryan,
Tappin Collins,
J. 13. Peskln,
J. G. Byler,
II. T. Ward,
O'. K. O’Connor.
Stanford University! is to have a 
new basket, ball pavilion to seat 
three thousand spectators. Construc­
tion will commence immediately This 
summer they start on a ?500,000 foot­
ball stadium.
The meeting of the student body of 
Art school was called to order by Pres­
ident Todd. The secretary read the 
minutes of the previous meeting, 
which were approved.
Several announcements were made 
concerning the Art School Show. Mr. 
Muller requested each and every 
person to assist him in working on 
the costumes. Mr. Reid spoke of the 
short time in which to prepare for the 
show and advised the co-operation of 
all Art school students in every phase 
of work, but especially on scenic con- 
atructlon.
Messrs. Snyder and Hutz presented 
two song hits from the show, in order 
to give a sample of what Arte is going 
to produce. From all indications this 
year's show will surpass all former 
productions.
CITMAS CLUB
MINING AND METALLURGICAL 
SOCIETY
At the last regular meeting of the 
Mining and Metallurgical Society Pro­
fessor Hill of the University of Pitts­
burgh presented some of his experi­
ences in western mines, outlining the 
cyanide process of refining gold. 
Music was furnished by an orchestra 
and smokes and eats closed a pleas­
ant evening.
FRESHMEN GIVE TEA DÁNSANT
The Freshmen entertained the 
Juniors Monday afternoon in the 
recreation hall with one of the clever­
est tea dansants given about school. 
The hall was decorated with, red bal­
loons, candles and Valentine “trim­
mings.” Juniors and Freshmen match­
ed hearts to find partners for lunch, 
which was cleverly served in boxes 
tied with big red bows. Perhaps the 
hit of the afternoon was1 the entertain- 
,ment, consisting of "Who Wants to 
Be a Cave Man's Kid?" and the little 
Misses Ruth and Jean Allen,, who, it 
seems, can sing and dance equally 
well. Every Junior enjoyed the after­
noon and is of the opinion that “the 
Plebes are a mighty clever class."
BASKET BALL DANCE
The fifth basket ball dance will be 
held in the Union, Friday, March 25. 
The proceeds of these dances are used 
in providing equipment and other ex­
penses of the basket ball teams.
There will be a meeting of the Cit- 
mas Club tonight in room 102, Arts 
building. Every Mason should be there 
and support the club. This organiza­
tion is affiliated with the7 National 
League of Masonic Clubs and has the 
support of the various Masonic 
lodges in Pittsburgh. Many things of 
interest will be taken up. The chief 
problem is that of membership. Come 
out and bring a brother. Don’t forget 
Arts building tonight.
HARRISBURG JUNIOR CLAN 
MEETING
Last Wednesday afternoon some 50 
members of the Harrisburg Junior 
Clan gathered at Margaret Morrison 
and helped to produce one of the 
most enthusiastic meetings the clan 
has held. A short business session 
was held, at which time the question 
of dues was taken up.. A letter from 
John Peters, president of the Harris­
burg Clan, and also head of the Penn­
sylvania State Employment Bureau, 
was read. He threw open the offices 
of his bureau to all members of the 
clan and offered to get sTImmer vaca­
tion work for all. After the business 
session came the best part of the 
gathering. Games of various kinds 
and dancing were indulged in,, fol­
lowed by refreshments served by Miss 
Martin, Rudisill and Todd. The next 
meeting will be held early in March 
and a large number of members are ex- 
pecte to be present.
INDUSTRIES ALUMNI HOLD BIG 
SMOKER
DEGREE RING TO
BE STANDARDIZED
(Continued From Page One.)
4. It should be adaptable to a ring 
for the men (about seven pwt.) and 
a ring for the women (about four 
pwt.)
5. There shall be no class numer­
als used or incorporated in the de­
sign.
6. The contest will open February 
21 and will close Friday, March 4.
7. It shall be open to all students, 
alumni and any interested faculty.
8. Any designs submitted to the 
signed, with the name, division and 
class, and should be sealed. Address 
your communications to the Ring 
Committee, W. H. Obenour, chairman, 
and drop them in the postoffice, Cen­
tral building.
THREE NEW PLAYS
AT LITTLE THEATER 
(Continued From Page One.)
Y. W. C. A.
The Y. W. C. A. has not met for 
a few weeks—but it hasn’t “gone or 
forgotten"—not for a minute. There 
will bo a regular, meeting next Wed­
nesday, the 23rd., and be sure to 
/oonio and express your desires as to 
/who ouir Faculty Advisor shall be 
We’ll have a real mioeting and so be 
sure to «ave this Wednesday', 4:30, in 
the Roc. Hall. Wo know you are 
busy—-but it will pay you.
About 100 Industries Alumni were 
present at the Alumni Smoker in the 
Union last Thursday evening. The 
faculty and 1921 graduating class 
were guests. Dean -Morris started the 
ball rolling with a few remarks to the 
alumni and emphasized the import­
ance of all Tech people joining the 
Alumni Association.
Commissioner C. B. Connelley was 
present and gave the boys a real talk. 
Professor Leeds, Bill Pfouts and D. A. 
Casey also made talks which were full 
of pep. Mr. Estes and Mr. Ketchum 
explained the Athletic Drive and 
asked that all the alumni support the 
cause.
J. R. Gilbert and F. R. Trexel, In­
dustries Sophomores, staged one of 
the most exciting wrestling bouts ever 
seen at Tech. Jim Campbell and 
Harry Witmer went for three rounds 
in an exciting boxing match.
Plenty of smokes and eats were on 
hand. While1 these were being di­
vulged in, the film entitled the ‘Atone­
ment;’' was shown.
STUDENT RESULTS
TOUCHDOWN DAY
STILL INCOMPLETE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
ol’ tho campaign. The principal 
feature of the campaign was tho moth’ 
od used by Chuck Copley, 
William Reilly, A. M. Wade, 
A. J. Kendrick, A. C. May and 
Albert Shoff, who tourod tho down­
town district, East Liberty and North 
Side in an auto truck, with a flvc- 
ploco orchestra, soliciting subscrip­
tions, raising several hundred dollars 
in tills fashion. Similar trips are 
planned for this week, tho trucks be­
ing furnished by members of the 
alumni and friends of the athletic 
council.
Meetings of the1 students, particular­
ly those who are taking an active 
part in the drive plans, have been held 
at the call of'Student Chairman A. J. 
Dreux this week and further gather­
ings are planned until the close of the 
campaign, so that the student effort 
may be carried on until the final bell. 
These students are working upon es­
pecially prepared lists of stores, busi­
ness offices and industries, and several 
large subscriptions have been reported 
from this source.
Dinners for the captains and work­
ers of the campaign organizations 
have been held to keep the pep at 
maximum, two general meetings hav­
ing taken place last Friday and 
Monday, both at the Varsity Clan 
Cafeteria. Daily meetings of the 
alumni business teams are held at 
luncheon at the Chamber of Com­
merce. The competition for the 
fraternity and class prizes is ex­
tremely close,, although the high 
mark for the individual student is by 
no means unsurpassable. Sigma Nil, 
Beta Tliota PI and XI Slgmn Upsilon 
woro closely grouped and Industries 
classes wore loading the school and 
class groups, with Doslgn last.
Tho alumni are watching tho stud­
ent. phase of tho campaign with the 
koenost interest as has boon shown by 
many reports to headquarters of stud­
ents soliciting alumni and former 
students. Other alumni havo boon 
interested to know what tho students 
have dono, as they fool that the pres­
ent generation and class of Techltos 
have fully as much, or more at stake 
as tho oldor alumni, many of whom 
live outside the city, and cannot at­
tend the varsity contests, or partici­
pate in the activities on the campus.
STUDENT VESPERS
Tomorrow Dr. .1. K. McClurkin of 
the Shady Side U. P. Church, will 
speak, at 4:45, the First Baptist 
iChurch, two 'blocks northwest of the 
library. Incidentally, Dr. Galpin de­
serves thanks for boosting Tech's 
$50,000 drive last Thursday with a 
subscription.
The faculty, again showing their enr 
thusiasni for Tech activities, have es­
tablished a notable record, under the 
chairmanship of M. F. Barrett, In­
dustries, and have turned in almost a 
perfect score, bettering that of any 
other group. One of the unique re­
sults of the campaign has been the 
checking up of addresses of alumni, 
and the bringing of many of them into 
the fold of tho clans in their vicin­
ities, and it iB ibelieved that the full 
effect of this factor will not be re­
alized for months to come.
BUFFALO CLUB SMOKER
(Continued From Page One.) 
the by-laws and constitution were ac­
cepted unanimously.
All Buffalo men are urged to send 
in their names and correct addresses 
to tlieN club secretary, Arthur L#. Beck, 
4915 Forbes street, so that informa­
tion may be sent to all men at any 
time concerning the activities in con­
nection with the organization..
The Buffalo Club is now welded into 
a spirited and concrete organization 
which is at all times co-operating with 
the Buffalo, N. Y.,. clan to further the 
interests of Carnegie men here and 
in Buffalo. We are -striving now for 
a 100 per cent membership of all the 
men from Buffalo attending Tech. 
Let’s turn out, fellows.
N. B.—A committee is working: 
hard on the arranging of details for a 
theater party to be held in the very 
near future. Definite information on 
this subject will be given the evening 
of the smoker.
INDUSTRIES HAS QUIET
ASSEMBLY FOR PLEBES
(Continued From Page One.) 
ery” milk and he did not wish an at­
tack of indigestion.
Tho remainder of the meeting was 
dovotod to tho explanation of the In­
dustries organization for the big 
drivo.
W. H. Oakley roported on the 
“Gambol of the Guilds’" and Lynn an­
nounced tho liocky game with the 
University of Pennsylvania and asked 
for the support of the Industries men.
Pheasant Hatcheries.
The state of Massachusetts main­
tains three pheasant hatcheries, one 
at North Wilbraham. one at East 
Sandwich and one at Marshfield.
|part, the manner of which is at first 
disconcertingly cheap. Mr. McClure 
has ease and effectiveness in his 
earlier scenes, but is too utterly dis-' 
agreeable in hia final scene of dis­
missal. | A clevor child, Albert Alvin, 
shows skilful drilling in his earlier 
scenes, even though he does not rise 
to the demasds of acute indigestion 
The minor characters are in good 
hands, although the present state of 
the script requires a constant run­
ning about the stage which destroys 
the intended effect of naturalness.
Other new plays which have come 
to light recently are Miss Grey Mc- 
Auley’s two one acts, “The Mill Be­
tween the Bridges” and “Tracks.” The 
background is that of the Southern 
mountain life, and the plays are 
shrewd in construction and in their 
appeal to primary emotions. Tlie first 
Is an abbreviated version of the 
Romeo and Juliet theme, with a South­
ern feud for a setting. The conflict 
in the hearts of the lovers between
We’ve Fitted Feet
Over Fifty Years
P.LUDEBUEHL»
PENN and FRANKS- 
TOWN AVENUES
We are now conducting 
our
SEMI-ANNUAL
RED TAG SALE
All Shoes Reduced
VENUS 
V PENCILS
’U’OR the student or prof., 
_ tho superb VENUS out­
rivals nil for perfect pencil 
work. 17 black degrees and 
3 copying.
American Lend 
Pencil Co.
2xo nail Avo.
NcwYork
STUDENT SUPPLIES
Fountain Pens, popular makes, $1.50 
up; Eversharp and similar Pencils, 
50c up. Waterman's Best Ink, Ink 
Tablets, “Tech” Recognition and Seal 
Pins, Rings, Frat Jewelry, Stationery, 
etc., Dance Programs, Favors, Sta­
tionery plain and monogrammed; 
Fountain Pen Repairing.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
FIRST FLOOR JENKINS ARCADE
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues.
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.‘, 
Minister.
Preaching 'Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at-. 
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
“Friendly People." A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
their love for each other and the- 
hatred of their rival families finds ex­
pression in restrained and natural 
dialogue. Hatred inevitably triumphs- 
and the girl sends her lover to what- 
ehe knows is certain death. Miss Mar­
tha Johnson and Mr. Colpitts carry 
the burden of the play. They are care­
ful not to over act; Miss Johnson’s- 
dialect is helpful to the illusion, am? 
Mr. Colpitt’s creation of a simple,, 
grief-stunned, inexpressive man is ad­
mirable:, The interest of the latter 
play, “Tracks," is in plot rather than 
in characterization. The manipulation 
of evidence by a brutal and criminal 
mountaineer (Mr. Paquin) is the) chief 
incitement to curiosity. Miss Dalzell 
does the best of her work at th& 
school as the broken-spirited wife, 
stirred at last to rebellion by her 
husband’s cynical treatment of their 
half-witted son. With Mr. Paquin, 
she stages a thrilling hand to hand 
struggle. The part of the son gives 
Ross Hertz a sombre role, In which, 
forgetful of his usual clowning, he is 
sincere and touching. Miss Ziegen- 
felder is an interesting figure as the- 
senile grandmother, though she might, 
use her voice more illusively.\------------------ /
BEAUX ART 
The next Architectural problems- 
which will be judged at the Beaux. 
Arts in New York, March 15, 1921, are 
“A State Dining Room” and “A Semi 
Circular Porticq." There are Junior 
and Sophomore problems respective­
ly, and must be completed by Satur­
day, February 26. The first Í3 a room, 
to be built in the executive mansion 
of the governor of one of our large- 
states to serve for official dinners. The 
other is the entrance motive, a semi­
circular portico, to a large palatial 
residence to be built facing a garden, 
and is to be similar to the portico of: 
the White House at Washington.
A Dilemma.
Buster, three years old, saw a horse- 
walking down the street the other day.. 
He had never seen one that was not 
hitched to a wagon, and was greatly- 
astonished, saying: “Oh, muwer,.
here’s a horse that’s broke off.”
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
"How many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time?” she 
asked the LIONESS
"‘Only ONE,"replied the Lioness 
— “but it’s a L1QN I "
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
' FOR A BOX OF 10
BUT THEY'RE MURADS
MURADS would be loweV 
priced if we left out all or part of 
tho 100% Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and beat varieties grown — 
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn't be MURADS 
—they'd only be Foxes I
“Judge for Yourself—! "
We call special attention 
to Murad 20s in Tin Boxca
Hohen of the Ihi/hnl Gustf Turhlih 
and Egyptian Qgiiivttef in the Vkrfd
St. Paul’s Cathedral
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days- 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Tech 
Students.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues. 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon for Stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o'clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45, 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all students.
E
Every time you help the church, even by attendance, you cast a 
vote for its continuance. Every time you stay away your vote is the 
other way. What would happen if the churches were closed?
How will you vote next Sunday?

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1921PAG ETWETOPAGE THREE
PLAID A T H L E TÌ O S
Protects Her Young.
The red fox will, when occasion 
,11s for It, give vent to a kind of 
gh*pltched screech, that when heard 
flt night Is quite awe-inspiring, says 
the American Forestry Magazine. This 
Is Its purpose, as It often serves as a 
protection for Its young.
%
Pay by Check
It is businesslike, con­
venient, safe. It pro­
vides a receipt that is 
proof conclusive for 
money paid out.
Open a checking ac­
count with us—it need 
not be large to be wel­
come 
Capital and Surplus,
$11,124,136.20
Mellon MOMl In­
puts Pa.
nsflJP
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital - - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
Safe Deposit Boxes for j
Rent1
a r\ -*7- rv n i
&Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
JACQUE’S DANCING | 
ACADEMY
Craig and Forbes
RESTAURANT
VERNON AND CURRY 
Proprietors.
4529 FORBES STREET 
A Bit Small 
But Oh, You Good Eats 
Try us and be convinced.
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library
Stilli
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best Laun­
dry Agency
aimWRKHEK
Aids to good looks, sound teeth. 
ea£er appetite and healthy dliestioo 
are only 5c a packafla.
Sealed 
Tleht- 
Kept 
Right
1 89 <í--
On The Plaid Screen
BY STUART P. SMITH
BASKET BALL SEASON DRAWING TO CLOSE
TARTAN WRESTLERS LOSE TO 
MOUNTAINEERS IN HARD MEET
The basket ball team is on the last lap of their schedule with only 
five more games to play. Four of these are at home and the fifth will be j 
played at Beaver Falls with Geneva. Next Thursday Buffalo will come 
to the Field House for a return game with the Skibos, followed by George­
town on Friday night. The Plaid basket bailers have former defeats to 
settle with both teams and will do their utmost to even things up with them. 
Saturday night Coach Anderson will bring his Lafayette five to Pittsburgh 
to play the Tartans. The Easton team comes here with an excellent repu­
tation and from all indications will be hard to beat. They have three vet­
erans on the team in Captain Reese at center, Bieber, a forward, . and 
Reese, a guard. Longaker, who plays the other forward, starred on the 
Freshman team last year, and Kearney, the other guard, is a Freshman‘this 
year. Kearney is also a football player and Pittsburghers will remember 
him in the backfield when Lafayette lost to Pitt last fall.
4» 4* 4* 4* 4» 4*
MORE BOXING AND WRESTLING EVENTS SCHEDULED
Manager Copely of the boxing and wrestling team has been busy the last 
week and has arranged several more contests for his teams. The main event 
he has scheduled is for March 22nd when the Penn State boxers will be 
brought here to meet the Plaid mittmen. Allegheny will send her boxers to 
Pittsburgh on March 1 for a contest. The wrestling team has two more 
events on their card, meeting the Westinghouse Grapplers for a second time 
on March 1, and the Ohio University team on March 12th. Both matches 
will be staged at the Field.liouse and will give the local fans a good oppor­
tunity to see the team in action. While the Tech wrestlers had a strenu­
ous time last week with two meets in three days, they are none the worse 
for their hard work, and have begun a period of hard training for their 
future contests.
TENNIS PRACTICE ST\ARTS
Tennis practice begins next Tuesday in the Langley Laboratory when 
Colonel Brooks will have his racquet wielders out in full force. The colonel 
has several new ideas on indoor practice which he will put into effect in 
order to bring the team into shape for the early tournaments. Manager 
Ravenscroft reports the schedule has not been completed as yet, but an 
excellent one is being formed, and will be completed in a few weeks.
INDUSTRIES SWIMMERS SWAMP 
SCIENCE ANDJJESIGN
In a very interesting anu exciting 
three school swimming meet held last 
Thursday at the Falk Memorial, the 
Industries water men completely out­
classed the swimmers of Science and 
Arts. Each school was allowed to en­
ter one man in each event and In­
dustries took first place In them all.
Some of the races were very close 
and exciting and the winners had to 
display all the speed they possessed. 
The meet brought out several more« 
good men and thereby increases the 
amount of material Tor a successful 
swimming team. 'J'he final score in 
points gave Industries 30, Arts 14, 
and Science 10.
Plunge for distance—Won by Jef­
frey, Ind.; second, Kendricks,. Arts; 
third, Jordy, Science. Distance 46% 
feet.
20 yard dash—Won by Geary, Ind.; 
second, Kendricks, Arts; third, Nevile, 
Scl. Time, 10 seconds fiat.
40 yard breast stroke—Won by Jef­
frey, Ind.; second, Jordy, Scl.; third, 
Taormina, Arts. Time, 36.- seconds.
40 yard dash—Won by Brayer, Ind.; 
second, Pyle, Arts; third, Riclcen- 
backer, Sci. Time, 24 seconds flat.
40 yard back stroke—Won by Geary, 
Ind.; second, Kendricks, Arts; third, 
Jordy, Sci. Time, 28 seconds flat.
Relay race—Won by Industries 
(Gross, Brayer and Geary); second, 
Science (Nevile, Jordy and Mont- 
strem); third, ^Arts (Kendricks, Taor­
mina and Pyle. Time, 34.2 seconas.
PLAID GRAPPLERS DEFEAT 
WESTINGHOUSE MAT MEN
PLEBES DEFEATED BY KISKI 
AND INDIANA NORMAL
The Tech Plebes were' defeated in 
the first game of their thlp by Kiski at 
Saltsburg on Friday evening, the final 
score being 40-20.
Kiski started strong and run up a 
safe lead. The half ended 20-8 in their 
favor. The Plebes played a stronger 
brand of ball in the last naif, the score 
for the period being 20-12. The line­
up:
Tech Plebes 20 Kiski 40
Jones ....................F............. Wild
Lowstuter .............F.................. Reed
Siferd .................C.....................Kline
Comfort.................G................... Clees
Berryman ............G....... Stuhldreher
Substitutes—Batchelor for Kline, 
Nathan for Reed, Reed for Nathan, 
Parker for Jones, Griggs for Lowstut­
er, Jones for Parker. Field goals, Low­
stuter, Siferd, Comfort 2, Berryman, 
Griggs, Parker, Wild, Reed 3, Kline 
4, Clees 3. Batchelor 4, Nathan 2. 
Fouls—Jones 2 out of 5, Siferd 4 out 
of 5, Parker none out of 1, Wild 6 out 
of 9. Referee, Krotzer.
In a fast game at Indiana Saturday 
evening the Plebes lost their second 
game to Indiana Normal, 35-27. The 
Plebes showed much improvement
over their performance on Friday 
night.
The Tartans began with a rush and 
at the end of the first half were lead­
ing. In the last half Indiana forged 
ahead, the game ending 35-27. The 
lineup:
Tech Plebes Indiana Normal
Jones ..................F..............Llewellyn
Lowstuter ............F................ Watson
Siferd ...................C................ Graham
Comfort................G............ DeVaughn
Berryman.............G..................... Kratz
Substitutes—Parker for Lowstuter, 
Lowstuter for Parker, Griggs for Si­
ferd, Johnson for Watson, Mike for 
DeVaughn. Goals—Jones 4, Siferd 2, 
Comfort 2, Llewelyn 3, Graham 3, De­
Vaughn 3, Kratz 4. Fouls—Jones 11 
out of 15, Llewellyn 7 out of 14, Gra­
ham 2 out of 5. Referee—Slicker.
The Tech wrestling team came to 
the front Thursday night when they 
won from Westinghouse by a score of 
14 to 10. This was Tech’s first ap­
pearance in a wrestling match and 
every bout was exceedingly fast and 
exciting,, it requiring over time for two 
of the matches before the referee 
could make a decision. Every man 
made a very creditable showing 
against their more experienced op­
ponents. Stevenson and Kalabash, 
both new men, made a very creditable 
showing. 'Stevenson was downed by 
a head chancer and arm scissors after 
three and a half minutes of sgamely 
trying to break the holds. Stalnacker 
put up a fine match against a man 
who has had considerable experience 
as a wrestler.
125-pound class—Won by Captain 
Donovan, Tech, from Silpian. De­
cision at end of seven minutes. Won 
by aggressiveness.
135-pound clasB—Won by Boulton, 
Tech, from Simenelinger. Fall in last 
two 'seconds; 10 minute match.
145-pound class—Won by Neurtieyer, 
Westinghouse, from Stevenson. Fall in 
4% minutes.
158-pound class—Won by Landis, 
Tech, from Sadenberger. Won by ag­
gressiveness; 10 minute match.
165-pound class—Won by Briers, 
Westinghouse, from Stalnacker. Fall 
in 4%. minutes.
175-pound class—Won by Kaiabish, 
Tech, from Warner. Won by ag­
gressiveness; 7-minute match.
VARSITY RIFLE TEAM
MAKES CREDITABLE SHOWING
The Tartan mat men were de­
feated by the Mountaineers Saturday 
night at Morgantown, W. Va., by a 
score of 30 to 0. Despite the one-sided 
score the bouts were hotly con­
tested. In every bout the Tech 
wrestlers battled gamely against 
heavy odds. The most exciting bouts 
were between Captain Hough and 
Captain Donovan and between Steven­
son and Grow. Hough and Donovan 
went at it hammer and tongs as soon 
as they struck the mat and before an 
excited audience Hough was finally 
able to get a half-Neison uu Donovan 
and after a hard struggle was able to 
down the Plaid captain.
115-pound class—Won by Craig of 
West Virginia over Clark of .Tech in 
four minutes and 50 seconds.
125-pound class—Capt. Mough of 
West Virginia threw Capt. Donovan of 
Tech in two minutes.
135-pound class—Steve Harvik of 
West Virginia threw Boulton of Tech 
in four minutes and 15 seconds.
145-pound class—Grow of West Vir­
ginia threw Stevenson of Tech in 
four minutes and 30 seconds.
158-pound class—McDonald of West 
Virginia threw Stalnaker of Tech in 
six minutes and 40 seconds.
175-pound class—Pitzenberger of 
West Virginia threw Kalabiscli of 
Tech in three minutes and 2S sec­
onds.
Heavyweight class—Joe Harnek of 
West Virginia got decision over 
Spinkle of Tech in eight minutes and 
35 seconds.
Referee—^D. W. Avery of Pennsyl­
vania State.
UNIV. OF BUFFALO TOO
STRONG FOR TARTAN FIVE
FOUND—Pair men’s overshoes. In­
quire Dean Tarbell’s office.
Saturday night at the Broadway 
auditorium, Buffalo, N. Y„ Carnegie 
Tech went down before the superior 
play of the University of Buffalo five, 
35-1S. The score was low, duo to close 
guarding of both teams, but at no 
time during period of play did the 
Tech team lead, Buffalo having the 
lead all during the game.
The first half ended 20-7, Buffalo 
leading. Carnegie came along better in 
the second half, scoring 11 points to 
the Queen City boys’ 15.
Dosey led Tech, scoring with 10 
points. Cohen starred for Buffalo 
with 19.
Carnegie 18 Buffalo 35
Dosey .....................F................... Long
McPhea..................F................ Cohen
Hamniau .............C................... Siegel
Nicholi ...............G....... G'oldenson
Pittman...............G...................Leicht
Total points scored—Dosey 10, Mc­
Phea 4, Hamman 2, Bell, substituting 
for Hamman, 2, Long 2, Cohen 19, 
Steigel 2, Leclit 2, Goldenson S, Lev­
in, substituting for Long 2. Referee. 
Seymour, Syracuse. Umpire, Dreher, 
Buffalo. v
RENSSELEAR WINS 43-27
TECH LOSES TO UNION;
RENSSELEAR WINS 43-27
On the Troy court of the Rensselear 
Polytechnic Institute last Friday night 
Carnegie Tech was defeated by the 
Rensselear Tech five, the score being 
43-27. This was the first game played 
between the two 'schools, both of 
which are leading engineering col­
leges. The New York State boys out­
classed the Plaid, but were forced to 
use all 'their available tricks to bring 
the victory in their favor.
Oregon Agricultural College lias a 
student fifty-six years old. Kinkade 
has nine children of his own, three 
of which aro in school.
Thursday niglit, at Schnectady, N. 
Y., Union College was the victor over 
the Tech five, winning by the score 
of 35-25.
The close guarding of the Union tivo 
compelled the Carnegie forwards to 
resort to long shots from the mid- 
court.
The passing of both teams was 
poor, and the forwards found it diffi­
cult to shoot, field baskets.
Dosey and Bell starred for Tech, 
while Capt. Jones was the mainstay 
for Uniou. The lineup:
Union—35 «Carnegie Tech—25
B rucker .............F_____ Hammaim
Wilber ................F. .*................ Dosoy
Getman .................C...................;. Bell
Rinaldi ..............G................. Gibson
Jones (Capt..........G...................Nieliol
Substitutions — Carnegie, Pittmann 
for Gibson, McFee for I-Iammann, 
Smith for Dosey. Field goals—Bruck- 
er 3, Wilber 5, Getman 3,. Jones 2, 
1-lammann, Dosey 5, Bell, Nieliol. Foul 
goals—Brucker 9 out of 11, Dosey 9 
out of 20. Referee—Tilden. Umpire— 
Boysou.
BASEBALL MEN ENTERTAINED
Last Thursday night the baseball 
men w'ere entertained at a smoker- at 
the Delta Upsilon house by Manager 
Tosteson. About 20 men were present 
and plans for the coming season wore 
discussed along with the prospects for 
a successful team next spring. Sev­
eral of the men present made short 
talks, after which refreshments' were 
sorved.
* The Athletic Staff of The Tar- 
tan needs a few men. Positions ?$*
* are filled by competitive works. 4*
* Applicants see S. P. Smith in
* Tartan Ofllce, Friday 12:45-1:30. *
With acknoivlcdgments to K. C. B,
X smiled*
and he shol me
(Continued From Page One.) 
on the 18th Reg. Range on Wednes­
days and Fridays. Now that the 
equipment is in first class shape, the 
inter-class matches will be started. 
It is expected that there will be in­
tense rivalry among the classes—and 
don’t forget—there is a special cup 
for thè highest Plebe!
The membership of the club is now 
open and anyone desiring to join can 
do so by paying the initiation fee and 
regular dues.
Matches have been arranged with 
Harvard, February 25; Colgate, March 
3, and Columbia, March 5. There are 
several tentative matches being lined 
up and these will be published at a 
later date.
The following men have been chosen 
to manage the team :
Manager—J. L. McCullough. 
Assistant managers—S. L. Woulley, 
D. Smith, Hauser and Ward.
The score shot by the varsity team 
in the recent matches.
Standing Prone
Byler.............................. 92 91
Harwood ...................... 67 9b
Squires .......................... 94
Thompson .................... 60 96
Ward ............................... 54 93
Eastman................... 63
Foster..............................*54 94
Hammill......................... 55
Torbert ......................... 82 92
Grimm ............................ 96
Newman ...................... 94
Buckler ......................... 86 91
Coach Paulson is rapidly whipping 
the team into shape. He is far from 
satisfied with the work done in the 
matches so far, and feels that the 
material on hand should be better. 
The men are practicing strenuously 
and expect to show a big improve­
ment in the next match.
Three Religions In China.
China has three religions with many 
followers—Confucianism, Taoism and 
Buddhism.
Myrrh Used In Medicine.
Myrrh is a resin used for me­
dicinal purposes and In dentistry. It 
is also used In the manufacture of in­
cense and perfumery, and !s obtained 
from trees and shrubs that grow in 
Arabia and Abyssinia.
In pQclzagQB of 20 protected 
by special moisture-proof 
wrapper. Also in round 
AIR-TIGHT tins of 50.
AFTER MONTHS and month«. 
MY WIFE persuadod mo,
TO HAVE it dono.
SO I wont around.
TO THE photograplior,
AND GOT muggod.
WHEN THE pictures camo.
I SHOWED them to a gang. 
OF AMATEUR art critics.
AND PROFESSIONAL crabs. 
DISGUISED AS friends.
WHO FAVORED mo.# * »
WITH SUCH remarks as. 
“DOESN'T HE look natural?” 
“HAS IT got a tall?”
“A GREAT resemblance.''
AND THAT last one.
MADE ME sore.
SO WHEN friend wife.
ADDED HER howl.
I TRIED again.
THIS TIME they were great. 
FOR HERE’S what happened. 
THE PHOTOGRAPHER said. 
“LOOK THIS way, please."* * *
AND HELD up something.
AS HE pushed the button. 
AND NO one could help.
BUT LOOK pleasant.
FOR WHAT he held up.
WAS A nice full pack.* » *
OF THE cigarettes.
THAT SATISFY.
L
IGHT up a Chesterfield and 
j sense the goodness of those 
fine Turkish and Domestic to­
baccos in that wonderful 
Chesterfield blend. Taste that 
flavor! Sniff that aroma! 
You 11 register “They Satisfy.” 
You can’t help it.
CIGARETTE®
mm

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1921
FROM G. L. TILLBRODK
/Dear Clan »men:
In connection with the Athletic 
Drive, it ha« been found that in all 
cases, when the real condition which 
exists at Carnegie Tech, pertaining to 
athletics and the* financial condition 
oi the school,. 1C made known to Teeli 
anon', they do not hesitate to subscribe 
to the Athletic Extension Fund.
It Is the opinion of everyone con­
nected with the school, that Tech men 
and women, as well m the general 
public, have been under the Impression 
that Tech Is so heavily endowed that 
financial difficulties would never 
trouble the administration. Tills is 
not the case, however, and at the 
present time, the administration Is 
carrying a very heavy deficit for the 
past year. Tly/ Carnegie Corporation 
has been appealed to and an Investi­
gating Committee has. been sent here 
by that body to investigate the finan­
cial condition of the school, as well as 
the educational needs of the Pitts­
burgh district.
Two things may happen: Tech may 
lie cut in size and return to the sec­
ondary school class and serve only 
the Pittsburgh district, or the Car­
negie Corporation will supply the 
necessary funds for carrying out the 
program which will keep Tech where 
it belongs. What will be done de- 
N ponds very largely on the alumni and 
their support of the school. You can 
be sure that the Carnegie Corporation 
and the Investigating Committee are 
watching our Alumni Drive with very 
j keen interest to know what the real 
spirit of Tech alumni Is toward the 
school. We feel in putting over this 
drive in the specified time, nioce will 
have been done for Tech than any­
thing up to tills time,not only in the: 
support of athletics, but also in the 
crystallisation'of the alumni into a 
solid body with only the best interests 
of Tech in mind.
The Erie Clan has subscribed 100 
per cent, Akron and Cleveland have 
been organized into teams and without 
a doubt, they will return a 100 per cent 
within the next few days.. Harris­
burg, Philadelphia and New York are 
working very hard and their reports 
will, no doubt; reach the campaign 
office by the close of this "week.
For the Clans which, have not al­
ready organized, It Is the advice of 
the campaign committee to organize 
the active workers of the clan into 
teams, which must pledge themselves 
to see a certain number of the clans­
men. In that way, each clansman Is 
covered personally and the pledge 
card should be signed before leaving 
the man. Do not leave the card with 
the man, but get IL signed and take 
it with you. Do not depend upon the 
telephone, as a personal interview Is 
the only logical way to putT this drive 
over. Attention of every man should 
be called to the importance of sup­
porting Tech at this critical period 
and in keeping in touch, wltli the 
Alumni Associu/lon. Suggest to each 
worker In the 'clan that they get In 
touch with any former student In their 
district with the idea of having him 
become an associate member. The 
membership entitles him to the Alum­
nus and Tartan for the year and costs 
Ibut $2.00. Send his name and ad­
dress to the Alumni office.
Give a few of your spare hours for 
the next four or five days to this 
great cause and above all, talk Tech 
always. Yours very truly,
G. L. TILB’ROOK, 
Alumni Secretary.
SKSBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
iifiiiiiiiiiiniiiii
TECH CAFETERA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CAN’T “BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
¦IillllIIIIIIII!llll!llliil!lllllllllllIIII!Ill!IIH
1 & mn
HATS
and
Men's Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH STREET, NEW YORK 
BOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arcad
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
Bldg. Corner 
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS 
Arcade Building
NEW HAVEN
Hotel Taft 
BOSTON 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club 
Building
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Slioreham 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney Bldg. 
133 Geary St.
BATTERY
“Exide”
SERVÆ
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baiun and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired * Recharged
CLAN NEWS
CLANSMEN CO-OPERATE! 
JGET TOGETHER NOW!
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers equipment. Instru­
ments of Precision, Bluo Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
THE A. E. F. DRIVE
The Alumni office in maintained to 
serve you In every way possible. In 
order to do this; we must have your 
co-operation. Co-operate by:
1. Always having your address cor­
rect and up to date.
2. - Joining the nearest Tech Clan 
and being an active member.
!. Sending in your complaints and 
criticisms. We realize great improve­
ments can be made in our office; help 
us make them.
4. Paying your dues on receipt of, 
the first statement and In this way be 
assured of your publications arriving 
every issue.
5. Reading the publications and be­
coming interested In the issues of the 
school. IT IS YOUR SCHOOL.
0. TALK TECH always—help us 
SELL '1M3CII TO THE PUBLIC.
The Clans can help us by:
1. Sending in meeting notices for 
publication.
2. Informing us of their activities» 
—how they are selling Tech in their 
cities. Such information may give 
other clan1» new ideas.
3. Doing personal work vfor new 
clan and alumni members.
4. Organizing to put over the A. 
E. F. Drive—the best way to crystai- 
ize the alumni into a solid working 
body for Tech.
Tech men have, for the most part, 
been asleep to their responsibilities 
and ignorant as to what might happen 
to their Alma Mater, if we do not pull 
together.
Are -we. to revert to a secondary 
city school, or remain THE BEST 
SCHOOL IN THE LAND?
PITTSBURGH
The Pittsburgh Clan entertained the 
Musical Organizations of Tech at a 
luncheon Saturday, February 19, in 
the Chamber of Commerce. After 
luncheon, a concert was given for the 
members of the Chamber of Commerce 
in the auditorium.
AKRON
The Altron Clan held a special meet­
ing Tuesday evening, February 15, at 
the Chelsea 'Club. G. L. Tilbrook gave 
a, talk on conditions at Tech and de­
tails of the A. E . F. Drive. The mem­
bers present pledged themselves to 
cover all absent members in the Alt­
ron district by personal interviews 
ands there can bo no doubt but what 
Akron will bo 100 per cent clan, both 
in subscriptions and in backing Tech.
ERIE
'Phe Erie Clan reports show 100 per 
cent subscriptions to the drive.
CLEVELAND
The Cleveland Clan 'hold a special 
moòting Wednesday,. February 16, at 
the Builder's Exchange. Some old 
timers wore out to hoar of the situa­
tion at Tech and tiiie plans for the 
drive. (I. L. Tilbrook was present and 
gave a talk on the purpose of the 
drive and explained how results of 
this drive would affect Tech’s futur« 
The members present woro organized 
Into a team. Each Nmombor pledged 
himself to see a certain number,of 
absent members. These present sub­
scribed over $200 to the drive.
Malto Cleveland a 100 per cent Clan.
HARRISBURG
The Harrisburg Clan held a special 
meeting February 21, at which meet­
ing O. L. Tilbrook was a guest.. The 
Tech situation was discussed and the 
Clan organized to iput over a 100 per 
cent campaign for the A. E. F. Drive 
in the Harrisburg district.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY
The Monongaliela Valley Clan has 
just been organized covering Charle­
roi, Donora and Monesson. This Clan 
will hold its first meeting and dinner 
at the Elks Club, Charleroi, Pa., at 
7:30 p. m. on Friday, February 25. 
There will be a speaker from school 
present, and arrangements are under 
way to have Dr. Marks as the Clan 
guest for the evening. Every Tecu 
man and woman in this district should 
be there. Tech needs your co-opera­
tion and support and this Clan work 
should he a very pleasant way of serv 
Ing Tech and renewing old acquaint­
ances.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The Philadelphia Clan held its reg­
ular monthly meeting at the Arcadia 
Restaurant on Saturday, February 5. 
After, dinner a business mooting was 
hold in which the main subject of in­
terest was tho Athletic Fund cam­
paign. Pledges woro secured from all 
the members present and a commit­
tee was appointed to secure pledges 
from other members of the Clan.
Tho business meeting was followed 
by a social hour with dancing.
Evidencing the spirit of co-tìperation 
and friendship to Tech that prevails 
at other schools throughout the dis­
trict, several letters received at the 
office of Graduate Manager Frank. H. 
Haaren, chairman of the Athletic Ex­
tension Fund Committee of Carnegie 
Tech, this week were read to members 
of the alumni business teams at their 
daily luncheon at the , Chamber of 
Commerce, and brought forth many 
rounds of applause from the Tech 
men and their friends.
Principal of the letters and tele­
grams were those from the Pitt ath­
letic management, Robert M. Murphy 
land Neal M.. Fleming, graduate man­
agers, of Washington and Jefferson 
and State, respectively..
‘Many Pitt alumni and students, 
showing their friendship for the sister 
institution of Pittsburgh, have con- 
triubted. Wires of congratulation and 
encouragement from Mr. Murphy and 
Mr. Fleming, reading: "Penn State ex­
tends best wishes and good luck to 
you for your athletic fund. Neal M. 
Fleming,” and “Accept my hearty 
congratulations on your splendid drive 
for $50,000. I sincerely hope you suc­
ceed.. You have my very best wishes. 
11. M. Murphy,” were greeted with long 
applause, as State and W. and J. are 
the two big cards on the Tech football 
program for next season, and trips to 
these two games have been offered 
the two men and women undergradu­
ates securing the largest amount of 
subscriptions to the fund.
The past week has produced a large 
part of the total amount needed to 
continue athletics at the Schenley 
Park school, but the workers are being 
urged to put forth every possible ef­
fort during the coming six days to 
make certain and assured the realiza­
tion of the entire amount, as many 
teams have been unable to devote full 
time and attention to the details of 
tiie campaign. Dennis A Casey, head 
of the •alumni business teams and an 
alumnus of ’09, has turned over his 
office in the Bessemer building for a 
downtown headquarters, and his en­
tire ofllce staff are taking part in the 
drive during the coming week. Di­
rector Estes will be on duty at these 
headquarters during the entire week, 
to aid the captains and workers of the 
business teams, including the West- 
inghouse staff of eight men, headed 
by A. W. Montgomery, which was giv­
en to the campaign committee by the 
Westingliouse Company.
Students reported a large part of 
the total for the week, their receipts 
being largely the result of the canvass 
made by the entire student body on 
Thursday, when they “scoured” the 
city. Chairman A. J. Dreux expressed 
the hope that when the entire report 
of tho students is in that it will sur­
pass the effort of any other of the 
teams in the field. Many of the stu­
dents have volunteered for further 
service in the campaign and will be 
assigned to . teams being recruited in 
other industrial concerns of the city, 
which will get into the field next 
week.
Many students, fired with desire to 
aid in the continuance and extension 
of the athletic program at Tech, have 
not turned in reports because of am­
bition to secure honors in tho individ­
ual competition, and others, loss for­
tunate, have been unable to see per­
sonally tire prospects from whom they 
expect to secure their subscriptions. 
Tho “truck party,” composed of Wil­
liam Reilly, Charles Copley, A. M. 
Wole, A. J. Kendrick, A. C. May and 
Albert Slieff, In their tour of the down­
town, East Liberty and North Side 
districts secured what was believed 
to be one of the highest group totals 
of the day, although indications are 
that some of the fraternity teams will 
run them a close race for the top 
prize. These men, and others, 'will 
make similar trips through the Golden 
Triangle every day next week, in an 
endeavor to continue their good work, 
and to keep the people informed of 
the progress of the campaign.
Encouraging reports from the clan, 
fraternity, class, alumni business and 
other teams have been made, and it 
is evident that the workers wiliexert 
every possible effort this week to se­
cure the balance of the fund needed, 
and to send the total over the mark 
set. The drive has been featured by 
the work of William Pfouts, "a- mem­
ber of the School of Industries facul­
ty, who has been active in the cam­
paign, and whose daughter is leading 
the other girls of the school in the 
competition for the prize offered thè 
highest score among the co-eds, con-1 
sisting of a trip to Sfate College and 
Washington, Pa., next fall, as the 
guest of the football team, with all 
expenses paid. *
Director A. C. Estes, Graduate Man­
ager and Chairman Frank H. Haaren 
spoke yesterday of the progress of the 
movement, and the plans perfected 
for next week, when the twenty-two 
teams, headed by Division Chairman 
Dennis A. Casey, will complete their 
work, initiated this week, in the in­
dustrial plants and offices of the city. 
Mr. Ilaaron said that the workers 
should regard the results of this week 
as “only the beginning of the activity, 
and that, every member of the organi­
zation, every student and every alum­
ni; should take as much time as pos­
sible during the coming period to see
A DEGREE RING STANDARDIZED
A movement has been instigated by 
the Student Council to make an ef­
fort to settle once for all the matter 
of a standard degree ring for Carnegie 
Tech. Every year since the institu­
tion was incorporated and given the 
power to confer degrees an effort has 
been made toward this end but ap­
parently with no success. Investiga­
tion by the 'Student Ring Committee, 
appointed for the purpose of obtaining 
the rings for the class of ’21, has re> 
vealed the following facts:
1. That a standard ring was 
adopted in 1916 only to be violated in 
following years. There are no official 
records of the action taken in 1916.
2. That although s&mewhat similar 
in design, there are no two rings 
alike, and the accumulated difference 
between the first and last is great.
3. That owing to unorganized meth­
ods in securing the ring the expense 
of new dies and the attending differ­
ences have necessarily been borne by 
each class.
4. That it is practically impossible 
for Alumni to replace lost rings or 
to obtain class rings because of the 
fact that no company has been 
lected as the official manufacturer. 
There is no way to determine who has 
the dies for any year.
In view of these facts the Student 
Council thinks it "is high time that 
something be done, and that action on 
the matter be made so thorough and 
far reaching that there wilK be no 
room for doubt in the future.
While dealing with the matter it is 
thought advisable to incorporate in the 
ring adopted several changes which 
will aid in the attainment of the de­
sired end. It is popular opinion 
among many that the present ring 
does* not do justice to the Institute. 
We all recognize that Tech is and al­
ways. has ranked among the first in 
scholastic standing. Also in recent 
years, enrollment has increased great­
ly and now we rank with the larger 
institutions in size. With the passing 
of years Tech has risen to the front 
ranks in athletics and in non-athletic 
activities. Everywhere Tech Alumni 
are making records of which the In­
stitute can well be proud, and for 
these reasons there is little doubt 
that the degree ring .of this Institu­
tion should and must compare favor­
ably with the rings of other institu­
tions.’ It should be a ring that any 
person would be not only proud to 
possess, but also one that he or she 
would be eager to wear. Present in­
dications- (predict a great future for 
Tech—with an Alumni organization 
of great strength—and it is for this 
reason that the following proposals 
are made.
The present plan, though tentat5v 
proposes “that a joint meeting of the 
executive Board of thé Alumni Feder­
ation, the Student Council and the 
Student Ring Committee be held for 
the. purpose of discussing the matter, 
Any action taken by these 'bodies to 
be submitted to the' Alumni Federa­
tion and the student body for appro­
val, with a final ratification by the Ad­
ministrative Council. It Is believeil 
that this plan, if carried out, woula 
settle the matter beyond any doubt, 
and insure a real standard. This is 
not a selfish proposal on. the part of 
(lie present Student Council or Ring 
Committee but an effort to correct 
without further delay an evil which 
cannot be corrected too soon. Each 
year makes matters worse and more 
difficult to correct in the end. We 
can never hope to attain maximum 
solidity within the Alumni organiza­
tion without the proper regulation of 
this matter.
It is further proposed that the class 
numerals be left off the face or shank 
of the ring, having them engraved on 
the inside "with the initials of the 
owner, and that a manufacturer of 
high standing and unquestionable bus­
iness policies be selected to handle 
the ring permanently. These pro­
visions would tend toward economy, 
strict adherence to the standard and 
make it possible and easy for alumni 
to replace lost rings.
What, we want now are the views 
of the Alumni—constructive criticism. 
We would also appreciate ideas or 
complete designs from any member 
of the Alumni Association interested 
in the movement. Let us hear from 
voir—send your ideas or designs to 
the Alumni office, care of Mr. G. L. 
Tilbrook, before March 5.
JUNIOR INSPECTION
Mr. John Taylor of the Forge, con­
ducted an inspection trip through the 
Spang-Chalfant plant at Sharpsbug, 
last Wednesday for the Junior Class 
of the Division of Industries^ depart­
ment of machine production.
Mr. E. J. Hampton, superintendent 
of the plant, is a personal friend of 
Mr. Taylor, and it was he that made 
the trip possible during this present 
business depression. Several other 
Tech men in charge or various depart­
ments aided this inspection trip. Thost 
who made the tour are especially in­
debted to one of our Industry grad­
uates, Mr. O. Schnurrer, for his cour­
tesy in. acting as an interpreter of 
processes5 and guide through the 
plant.
This plant offers many varied types 
of the application of forge work to the 
processes of manufacturing steel pipe, 
a completely integrated plant, and one 
whose processes are kept in an ad­
vanced mechanical condition.
'Special reference to this was made 
by Mr. Schnurrer, who explained that 
in a few weeks the men now'employed 
in removing the pipe from the finish­
ing rolls would be displaced by one 
man operating a hydraulic machine.
Another department of considerable 
interest was the power plant, and es­
pecially the boiler rooms, where sev­
eral of the latest Westlnghouse Auto­
matic Stokers are used. Messrs. Ritz 
and Wagner, also Tech men, are in 
charge of this particular unit.
JR. PROM POSTER AWARDS
The following received prize awards 
in the Junior Prom pfoster contest held 
in the Painting and/ Decoration De­
partment:
First prize, $5, Jeannette Shirk. 
Second prize, .?3, Harriet Hyde. 
Third prize, ?2, Mildred Williams. 
Honorable mention, §1, Margaret 
Purcell, Robert Allen, Catherine 
Cisman.
Like Penitentaries.
Prof. J. V. Breitweiser finds that 
in modem institutions of learning, 
“Students are sentenced to serve a 
certain number of years, to go 
through a lock-step system of grad­
ing and promotion, and are limited 
to as mechanistic and as regular 
an order as the worst criminal in our 
ipenitentaries.” A
“A degree should he a certificate 
of ability: rather than a record of the 
time spent in college."
Labor Agitator: Now think hard,
men, we must have a reason for go­
ing on this strike;—Academy Star.
Toward education goes 53.82 per 
cent of the $81,287,692.51 budget of 
California State Board of Control.
Now tell me, is it proper to wear 
my smoking jacket to this next 
smoker?
C. M. Stauft
3702 Fòrbes Street
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
? ? *5* ? .J. «i» .J. .5. «J. * .J.
v REGISTER OF GRADUATES *
? You are not too late. «$»
? Send in 15 *‘2’s” today. *
? No new registers of graduates ->
? for two years. *
? Boost Tech by keeping in ?
? touch with your school friends. *
? G. L. TILBROOK. *
•J* *i* «5* -I* *{• ? *i* ? ?>
these companies, their friends and 
friends of Tech, to get the money- 
needed.’’ ’ ’
Mr. Estes reminded the workers that 
“Tech seeks no charity or alms; it 
needed no excuses- for the present 
plight of the athletic branch, and it 
offers a direct, business-like sports­
man’s proposition to the alumni, bus­
iness houses and business men of 
Pittsburgh to return to Tech some of 
the millions of dc^lars given the city 
by Tech; to huila up the school to 
even greater usefulness; and to par­
ticipate in the entire program by re­
ceiving in exchange for each ten dol-' 
lar subscription an athletic book good 
for every home contest at Tech dur­
ing 1921-22."
SOPHS TAKE HONORS
AT- SCIENCE St AG
(Continued From Page One.) 
which were: II. W. Byran, Tappin
Collins, J. E. Penskin, J. G. Byler, 
1-1. T. Ward and G. K. O’Connor. Dean 
Mott also made mention of a future 
attempt to establish a fraternity for 
research work, open to both faculty 
and students.
The Suicide Club, presented by tho 
Plebe, was a little off Center, but was 
a good starter. The Soph show was 
the best that has ever been presented 
at a Science »Smoker and the com­
mittee deserves special commenda­
tion. The chorus with their many 
brilliant costumes were not the only 
things of interest. The songs, trans­
planted so as to fit Tech characters; 
was the big hit and repeated encores 
were necessary.
The Junior Show, with J. Byler as 
the woman (looked good enough for 
a date) and the quartette were the 
features.
The Seniors attempted a Cosmopol­
itan Club and Bill Riley as the He­
brew and his Palestine were the high 
spots.
Adjournment was in motion and to 
the Brewery the crowd went for eat 
and then bed.
~VH\S üùûHT 
To V\M<E A
SON& HVT i
Y
OUR past performances 
won’t help you any in to­
day’s race. You must be 
groomed as a thoroughbred be­
fore you can even qualify as a 
contestant.
The world “Today” is cut, de­
signated and stitched into every 
one of the classy Overcoats or 
^ Suits now being shown in our 
style and satisfaction sales­
rooms.
Step in and take your choice 
for
$27.50
(>121 Perm Slue.
