Comp Sci breaks ties with MCS
ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Computer Science department 
has severed its direct ties with the Mellon 
College of Sdence(MCS) and has become an 
independent department with the university.
“From CS’s viewpoint, a substantial 
amount of administrative and leadership 
energy will be freed up by this change, to 
be devoted to its own concerns and to the 
interaction with the rest of the campus,” said 
Computer Science professor Allen Newell.
According to proponents of the new struc­
ture, CS’s dealings with MCS had become 
indistinguishable from its relations with
other facets of the university While work­
ing under MCS, few of CS’s problems and 
successes were on the MCS level — they were 
either campus-wide or localized within the 
department.
CS will report directly to top ad­
ministrative officials, who according to 
Newell “will gain some energy from this 
change, because essentially the same set of 
problems must be dealt with.”
Initial concern about the new department 
was based on a fear that CS would tend to 
become more isolated from the rest of the 
university, according to CS director Nico 
Haberman.
Haberman said, however, that this would 
not be the case. “Information sciences is 
emerging as a new form of thinking.. .We 1 
don’t want it as a separate, isolated system, 
but rather as a tool to be integrated into the 
entire university, which can be most effec­
tively accomplished as our department.” 
The new structure, according to Haber­
man, will aid the integration of computers 
with academic areas such as English, 
Philosophy and the Fine Arts. “Now that we 
are on our own, we don’t want to see 
everyone on campus flocking to CS, but 
rather to combine ourselves with other 
diciplines,” he said.
The new department will be similar in 
structure to the other major departments of 
MCS, but will continue to offer only 
graduate degrees. Haberman said that in the 
future, when CS is working strongly with 
other curricula, there may be a small pro­
gram for undergraduates.
Although President Richard M. Cyert was 
the last to fully support the program, he said 
that he and the rest of the administation feel 
it will help the university. “It is crucial for 
all of us that we continue to make this 
phenomenal progress (in computer 
science)...This move is designed to achieve 
that end.”
Chess playing computer wins championship
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A chess playing computer developed at 
CMU recently won the North American 
Computer Chess Championship in Denver, 
Colorado.
“A breakthrough in technology” is what 
Hans Berliner, CMU Senior Research Com­
puter Scientist, calls “Hitech,” presently the 
most highly rated computer ever in chess.
Hitech, a custom computer consisting of 
64 custom-made silicon chips, has been in 
the making for the past three years. This 
computer chess player was the idea of Andy 
Palay, system designer at the Information 
Techology Center (ITC). Palay thought that 
with state-of-the-art Very Large Scale In- 
tergration (VLSI) technology, a faster com­
puter could be built.
The idea became a reality. Carl Ebeling, 
a Computer Science (CS) graduate student, 
spent a year and a half designing 64 chips, 
one for each square on the board. When a
piece lands on a square, the chip assigned 
to that square evaluates the possible moves 
in response. The 64 chips can evaluate 30 
million moves in the three minute timespan 
allotted each player per move.
Ebeling said, “Hitech is good because it’s 
very fast. Instead of doing things one at a 
time, it does things in parallel.”
CS graduate student Gordon Goestsch 
programed Hitech, and CMU Research 
Engineer Larry Slomer built all of the hard­
ware. According to Ebeling, approximately 
one year was spent constructing the machine 
and doing the programing.
Berliner and CS graduate student Mur­
ray Campbell are responsible for the pro­
gram Oracle, which contains all of the game 
knowledge and controls the long-term 
strategy.
During the 1950’s and ’60’s, Berliner, a 
former chessmaster, was rated 12th in the 
country. In 1968, he won the World Cor­
respondence Chess Championship. Oracle is 
made up of his knowledge of chess.
On Oct. 13-15, Hitech was entered in The 
North American Computer Chess Cham­
pionship in Denver, just four months after 
its first game.
In the first round, Hitech, a computer 
that almost exclusively plays chess, competed 
against LACHEX, the fastest general pur­
pose machine. Hitech made some errors, but 
eventually pulled through.
Next, Hitech played PHOENIX. Accor­
ding to Berliner, this game was a good one 
because no second-guessing was involved.
The most critical game took place in the 
third round, where Hitech was up against 
BEBE. BEBE had just defeated Cray Blitz, 
the defending champion of four years, in the 
second round. Berliner said that this was a 
“wild game,” but “Hitech had more of what 
it took at the crucial point, and we beat it.”
In the final round, Hitech defeated Cray 
Blitz itself and won the championship.
The computer ‘tuned-up’ for the competi­
tion in Denver by playing four human chess 
masters and defeating them all. Because of
the results of this, and the Denver wins, 
Hitech has achieved master ranking and 
broken new ground in computer technology.
The next tournament Hitech will par­
ticipate in against other computers will be 
held in June ’86 in Germany. Berliner said 
he thinks Hitech will do very well against 
European opponents.
Ebeling will probably accompany Berliner 
on the next tournament and says that the 
computer will play humans in the mean­
time. “We want to try to get (Hitech) up to 
the level of the best human players, although 
it’s certainly nice to be the best computer 
around too,” he said.
While Berliner is excited about Hitech’s 
newly achieved status, he has higher goals for 
the computer to beat the world champion 
chess player.
Presently, two Soviets, Anatoli Karpov and 
Gary Kasparov, are competing for the world 
chess championship title. Whoever the win­
ner may be, Hitech is sure to be a future 
opponent.
US Steel gives tuition 
aid to former workers
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
CMU is one of nine colleges and univer­
sities in the Pittsburgh area participating in 
a $600,000 tuition supplement program for
In This Issue:
News
Kurt Vonnegut......................page 3
Features
Homosexuals on campus....page 5
Italian Buffet..........................page 7
Entertainment
Murph....................................page 9
Isaac Asimov......................page 10
Sports
CMU wins PAC..................page 18
Editorial...............................page 22
Acme...................................page 27
displaced United States Steel workers and 
their families.
“USS is interested in countering some of 
the bad press it’s gotten,” said Assistant 
Director of Financial Aid Paul Smith. “The 
basic use (of the program) will be as sup­
plementary funds for laid-off employees, 
spouses and their dependent children.”
Those eligible for the program are laid- 
off employees and spouses who have not 
found other employment, children of laid- 
off employees, and children of early reitirees 
whose jobs were eliminated.
Students may receive up to $3,000 for one 
academic year, which according to Smith, 
will “reduce some of the job requirements” 
for that person’s financial aid package. “A 
typical student graduates with loan debts of 
over $10,000.” he added. “With these funds, 
that debt can be reduced.”
Five students are receiving USS aid this 
year, but Smith said he suspects there are a 
few more CMU undergraduates who either 
aren’t aware of the program or haven’t 
realized their own eligibility. “We would like 
(these students) to get in contact with us,” 
he said.
Popular author Kurt \bnnegut addressed a full house during his visit to CMU 
last Wednesday. See page 3 for the accompanying article«

---------------------------------------------------

CHAIRMAN:
1. Reminder of the Faculty Senate meeting.
2. Expansion guidelines for the fraternities now 
include an opportunity for having more than 
twelve. However, both Dean Walter and Pat 
Crecine oppose this because they do not support 
fraternities without houses. IFC is in support of 
this, nonetheless, and Senate voiced its support 
also.
3. There will be an Auxilliary Services meeting 
Wednesday.
4. Constitutional amendments were brought up 
but automatically tabled (see “Proposed 
Changes..." dated Oct. 27.)
5. At the PSAC meeting, the problem of 
graduates teaching too many courses will be 
addressed.
6. Peter Lonsky announced that the sidewalks 
are in bad shape and in order to prevent any 
further tripping they must be fixed.
6. Why doesn't CFA have a Dean’s list? Will be 
looked into.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
1. Peter and Seana will attend the Auxilliary 
Services meeting.
2. The library study room situation will be 
assessed.
3. A gripe questionnaire is being formulated for 
campus distribution.
4. The motorcycle incident has been followed 
through with an appeal to Parking.
5. Laundry room problems will be dealt with.
6. Copiers are reported to be incessantly broken.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION:
Eric Briner of the Rock and Roll Club came 
before Senate requesting nonfunded recogni­
tion. The club is involved in musicians’ and 
record exchanges, sponsoring CMU bands for 
possible Friday concerts, and the showing of rock 
films. The club was granted recognition 
unanimously.ACADEMIC AFFAIRS:
1. The Educational Affairs meeting will discuss 
the computer system and innovation of 
workstations, though no means for implemen­
ting or having students finance them have been 
discussed.
2. Cindy got on the agenda for the registration 
proposal and it was passed unanimously.
3. A subcommittee has been formed to in­
vestigate a plus/minus grading system.
4. Talk to your constituents'about the propos­
ed Honor Code?
5. Next semester the committee and the Com­
puter club will sponsor a workshop to explain 
the computer system to students unfamiliar with 
the system.
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND HUMAN 
RESOURCES:
Dean Walter has “unknowingly done something 
bad.” Tau Delta Phi colony wanted to build a 
float for Homecoming and he suggested that 
they should build one ior tne parade in 
downtown Pittsburgh, with the promise to reim­
burse them for all materials purchased for the 
production of said float. Now it seems two 
groups have been granted the responsibility o? 
float production, and “these guys are psyched” 
and must be stopped. Michael Bett suggested 
a merger between the groups which was met 
with approval by all.
IFC:
1. Looking for replacement for Jay Carson.
2. Kappa Delta Rho and Alpha Epsilon Pi are 
on a probationary trial period.
Page 2—The Tartan—October 29, 1985
FREE 
NECKLACE- 
$50 VALUE
When You Buy 
A 10K or 14K Gold 
ArtCarved College Ring
Now when you buy any 10 or 14 karat 
goia ArtCarved college ring, you'll 
get a beautiful piece of fashion 
jewelry, FREE—an elegant black 
onyx, pearl and 14K gold bead 
necklace.
See your ArtCarved representative 
for details.
/IRTQIRVED\ CLASS RINGS
22 Deposit Required © 198 5 ArtCarved ( lass Rings
Wednesday and Thursday 
Oct. 30 and 31 
10AM-4PM Skibo Grey Matter
HELP A FRIEND BREAK 
A HABIT ON NOV. 21
THANK YOU FOR 
NOT SMOKING
If you have friends who smoke, help them quit during the 
Great American Smokeout on November 21. Keep a friend from 
smoking for one day, and you may keep a friend for life.
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
OCTOBER 22, 1985 
The meeting was called to order at 7:00. 
PRESENT : Chu, Chun, Cohen. DeLeon, Flynn, 
Jagerski, Kissner, A. Lee, K. Lee, Murphy, 
Mukherjee, Novak, Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, 
Whysel, Dean Cox, Lonsky, Kombrek, Ap- 
plebaum, Ransack, Trampel, Greenberg, 
Noesen, Patnaik, Cousineau 
ABSENT: Hynes
DEAN COX:
1. Needs three representatives for the parking 
committee. The nominees are George Michaels, 
Eric Rocher, and Mike Calvin. This commit­
tee will be formed to decide on appeals of park­
ing tickets. All nominees were accepted by 
acclamation.
2. The Faculty Council on Student Affairs pass­
ed the proposal to expand and renovate Skibo 
and the gym to provide more student office 
space, racquetball and squash courts, lockers, 
and equipment.
S. Ed Lilly has met with Amanda Mujica and 
a meeting for the Junior Class will be held next 
week.
PRESIDENT:
1. Met with major organizations to discuss the 
MS fund and it was decided that Senate, IFC, 
and SDC would be asked to pull together in sup­
port of a national campaign involving 150 other 
universities. A lip-synch (or air band) contest 
will be held and students will be asked to con­
tribute monetary support for their favorite act, 
similar to the contribution system run annually 
for UMOC. The winner of the competition will
go on to the national finals, all in support for 
the fight against MS.
2. At the next PSAC meeting, Karen and 
Michael will be discussing the hotel to insure that 
no parking spaces will be devoured and that the 
renovation of Skibo will be given top priority. 
5. Karen is meeting to find alternate places to 
put the Parking Office. Suggestions include the 
GSO Room and the Braemer House.
4. At the Faculty Senate meeting Thursday, 
Seana will be attending in Karen’s place. The 
faculty is planning to make a stand for student 
input in administrative decisions and the priority 
need for more student space.
5. The City Council meeting concerning the 
curfew is this Tuesday.
SDC:
1. Wednesday night movies are being shown for 
free in the Morewood TV Room — get a ticket 
in advance to assure your place.
2. Steve jobs of Apple will be here at 4:00 Oc­
tober 30th.
3. The Clipper Dance is this Saturday.
4. Tony Martin will be available for question 
and answer sessions in the dorms soon.
5. There will be an RA exchange program with 
F & M, Bucknell. and Oberlin.
6. Receptions for Parents’ Weekend will be held 
in the major dorms after the football game.

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 3
Vonnegut lectures on seals, humans, universe
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
When was the last time you had most of 
your concepts of reality entirely restruc­
tured? If it was the last time you read a book 
by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., then you may unders­
tand some of his views of life. If it was at 
Vonnegut s lecture last Wednesday, then you 
have a grasp of what it could be like to have 
your Universe bent and reinstated into a 
completely different view of existence.
The shock of some of Vonnegut’s concepts 
were not so outrageous to people who’ve read 
and understood enough of his books. Some 
of the topics he discussed, such as the effects 
of automation on society, are broadened into 
fascinating stories in his books. Vonnegut ex­
pressed his negative feelings towards 
automation; the only gain from relentless 
automation is ultimately money, he says, and 
that it will benefit only the makers of the 
machines. Human jobs are eradicated 
more efficient machinery replaces them 
under the pretense of giving the humans 
more free time. But, he said that humans 
don’t want to sit around making baskets in 
their “free time,” humans want to work, and 
be productive members of society. Vonnegut 
elaborates on his opinions about automation 
and its effects on humanity in the book 
Player Piano.
Vonnegut spoke also of the Hippocratic 
Oath, and about the fact that if we all abid­
ed by it we would have something like peace. 
He elaborated on its relation to various other 
topics, including abortion, God, writing, 
and the artificially extended family. He sug­
gested that the topic of abortion could wait 
till after he was gone, that we should not put 
all trust in God until we know Him a little 
better, and that certain parts of the Oath 
mentioning fairness and loyalty did not app­
ly to writers. For an elaboration on the con­
cept of the artificially extended family, read 
Vonnegut’s Slapstick, in which future presi­
dent Wilbur Daffodil-11 Swain (representing 
Vonnegut) establishes randomly assigned ar­
tificially extended families that reach across 
the country.
Vonnegut himself stated why the opinions 
he expresses are so easily traced to his books. 
In writing, he explained, “There is no point 
in having these wonderful instruments 
[language] at their disposal; the main thing 
is to have passion.. .to care very much about 
something, and to want to communicate 
something.. .passion is the key.” Vonnegut has 
the passion for what he believes, so much 
that he can write about it, and expressing 
his concepts in his stories is his job. The ti­
tle of Vonnegut’s lecture was, as a matter of 
fact, “How to Get a Job Like Mine,”
His job now consists also of giving talks 
and lectures like Wednesday’s event. As a 
performance, the lecture was quite a show 
in itself. One of the highlights of the lecture 
was Vonnegut graphing the patterns of 
stories on a chalkboard. Through graphing 
Cinderella and Hamlet, he established the 
Bible’s appeal as a story and also that events 
in life, like in Hamlet, could not be so easi­
ly interpreted as good and bad, and 
therefore, that life isn’t like a story: our reac­
tions to what we believe to be good and bad 
are conditioned. Though he generally 
discussed serious subjects, he hardly failed 
to get a laugh every few minutes, albeit 
uneasy laughter in many cases. Vonnegut’s 
typical subject matter is often considered to 
be too controversial or bizzare for young peo­
ple; hence the banning of some of his books, 
which is carried in a few rural areas to the 
extreme of book burning. In answering the 
audience questions, Vonnegut said of these 
burnings, “When I was a boy, communities 
that size were burning people, so I feel that
we’re getting somewhere.”
But of the actual book-bumers he said, 
“These are illiterate people who get elected 
to the school committees” who decide what’s 
fit for people to read.
His most recent questionable concept is 
that humans will be evolving into seal-like 
creatures over the next million years. He says 
that humans are burdened with over­
developed brains to work all the complex 
tools that are built into our bodies. So, our 
arms will develop back into fins, and we will 
return to the sea, retaining of course, our 
senses of humor. Vonnegut’s new book in 
which he elaborates this theory into a story 
is Galapagos. And if after a million years we 
haven’t become seals and the theory is 
wrong? “Then you’ll all get your money 
back.”
Pittsburghers celebrate 
Ezra Pound's birthday
On the occasion of the 100th anniversary 
of Ezra Pound’s birth, poets and poetry 
lovers from Pittsbugh will gather to pay 
tribute to a man who has been called, “the 
inventor of modem poetry in English.” The 
tribute will be held on Wednesday, October 
30, from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Stone Wall Book 
Store, 732 Filbert street, Shadyside.
The event will include a reading of 
Pound’s work and a brief talk on the poet, 
to be given by Dr. James F. Knapp of the 
University of Pittsburgh’s English 
Department.
Ezra Pound was raised in eastern Penn­
sylvania, but he spent much of his life 
abroad. His prolific work includes lyric 
poetry, literary criticism, poetry translations,
an opera, many non-fiction books and ar­
ticles, and his major epic, The Cantos, which 
occupied him for most of his lifetime. From 
early in his career, Pound’s vital dedication 
to experimental literature made him a 
leader, and the work he produced largely 
determined the direction of creative writing 
in the twentieth century.
During his lifetime, Pound was closely 
asssociated with such famous literary figures 
as T.S. Eliot, James Joyce, Earnest Hem­
ingway, W. B. Yeats, and William Carlos 
Williams.
The Stone Wall Book Store presentation 
will be one of many given throughout the 
world to honor the poet Eliot called, “the 
greatest master of English poetry.”
“Knowledge is of two kinds. 
We know a subject 
ourselves, or we know 
where we can find 
information upon it.”
Boswell, Life of Johnson (177$)
Federal Depository 
library Program
Make the Holiday Inn 
Greentree your head­
quarters when visiting 
C arnegie - Mellon 
University.
Located off Exit 4 (Greentree) of 
the Parkway West 7 miles from 
Carnegie-Mellon Universtiy.
Ample free parking • Outdoor swimming pool • Sauna 
Fine dining in the Greenery Restasurant 
Entertainment nightly in the Greenery Lounge
Special family rates (1-4 persons per room) 
$59.95 per night
For reservations contact: Holiday Inn Greentree
40 Holiday Drive 
Pittsburgh, PA 15220 
Phone: (412) 922-8100
On Nov. 19-21 we’ll beat Carnegie-Mellon University.
There are now more avenues of success 
for GM people than ever before. And 
we're looking for a new breed of people 
to fill future openings in the organization... 
tough, energetic, highly educated, 
uniquely talented and, indeed, visionary,
If you think you've got what it takes to 
succeed with this world-class organization— 
a company that's leading the way to the 
21st Century—schedule your interview NOW,
Let GM work for you.
An equal opportunity employer
Ask for the CMU family rate when calling 
Please present this ad upon check in

---------------------------------------------------

-ikï ,*,y* ¦ » t- > »'?__________Î_llî_
IF YOU ARE ABLE TO READ THIS AD 
YOU ARE ONE OF THE LUCKY ONES.
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE ARE NOT AS FORTUNATE 
AND SUFFER FROM BLINDNESS 
NOW IS TOOK CHANCE TO 
PUT YOUR EYES TO GOOD USE
1SB BfiFIBS
f® JBIBJLP TUB BMfflH)
ENTER.
•uani ¡DSMrraFiiL m ©emas'iFa
¡PHHDIT® SSSSHSfflSs 
wimnaig- seibo boom 13 
wimra: toes. ocT.29130-3 30 pm
AND TE9. OCT. 30 12:30-2:30 PM 
FIFTYCENTS ENTRANCE FEE (NON-REFCNDABLE)
Wednsan syTh ura Ouhua serua curt uh.yyaa
A IL IL ¡PS IB (ESS 3)3 ü II ILS. US HMDBT&VBID TT® 
ÏIEIB ffilLUBS®
sporaoR£n «y CompS tuomji
FRESHMAN 
COUNCIL
PRESENTS
FRESHMAN/PARENTS 
DAY ACTIVITY 
3:30 TECH FIELD
WIN ONE OF FIVE FREE PIZZAS 
DELIVERED
wN
Night Club Acts for Scotland Yard
Such as:Musicians
Dancers
Actors
Comedians
and Specialty Acts
Open Auditions are November 10th, 2-6 PM
In the Wherett Room, Skibo Hall
Please call x4821 
for more information

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Homosexuals on campus: trendy or true?
By Christy Casamassima
Tartan Feature’s Editor
Last year, I got thrown into a housing 
situation with a bisexual. You can imagine, 
as a heterosexual female, I was more than 
a little squeamish at the thought of living 
in the same house with a bisex­
ual female. When my bisexual 
X housemate came home one 
night with her girlfriend, I 
thought I would die. Today, however, I have 
altered my position about gays, adapting the 
“live and let live” philosophy.
I must admit, before coming to CMU I 
was ignorant about homosexuals. That’s par­
tially because I never knew anyone who was 
bisexual or homosexual and I never expected 
that I’d live in the same house with one. In 
high school, gays kept their sexuality a well- 
buried secret. I don’t blame them, because 
if they didn’t they’d be ostracized and ridicul­
ed. When I came to college, however, I was 
astonished at the number of students who 
were openly homosexual —not embarrassed 
or ashamed to assert their sexuality—in 
some cases even flaunting it.
My initial attitude toward homosexuals 
was disgust. I personally couldn’t understand 
why anyone would choose to have a relation­
ship with someone of the same sex. However, 
after meeting a number of homosexuals and 
bisexuals at CMU, I have learned to accept 
their personal situations without the con­
tempt I once felt for them. My previous im­
pression of gays was completely negative: 
they were either “queers,” “fairies,” “lezzies,” 
“butches” or some strange breed I could not 
understand. I found out I was wrong; they 
were really just people trying to do their own 
thing.
Perhaps homosexuals can afford to assert 
their sexuality at college more than ever 
because the atmosphere is conducive to in­
dividuality. Away from home, gays are free 
to be themselves without the constant disap­
proval of parents, relatives, and high school 
peers. Said one homosexual student, “Here 
(at CMU) it doesn’t matter if I’m gay. 
Everybody has a much better attitude about 
it.” When I asked heterosexual students
about the gay students on campus, I got the 
following responses: “I don’t care what they 
do, as long as they don’t bother me.” Another 
student said, “Look, it’s their choice; but I’d 
rather not see any public display of 
affection —it makes me uncomfortable.” 
And another response was, “I think some 
people here are sincerely gay, while others 
are just in it because it’s chic.” The prevail­
ing attitude towards gays among students 
was ambivalence—most didn’t care one way 
or the other since, “Gays aren’t hurting 
anybody.” Another common sentiment 
among students was that being gay is no 
longer taboo—it’s fashionable.
A lot of heterosexual students expressed 
their feelings that gay people must have had 
a mixed up childhood. Even psychologists 
are still battling it out over the reasons why 
some people have preferences for members 
of the same sex. Is homosexuality a trait pre­
sent at birth or does society have an impact 
on a child’s sexuality? I agree with John 
Locke, a proponent of the “nurture” theory. 
Locke proposes that a child’s mind is a 
“tabula rasa” at birth, in other words, a 
blank slate. Therefore, a child develops and 
nurtures his sexual preferences through his 
experience and exposure to the world 
around him. At any rate, most people agree 
that changing sex roles in society is a source 
of confusion to young children. Traditional­
ly, children were expected to imitate and 
identify with the parent of their same sex. 
Today, however, with a greater percentage 
of women in the work force, children are be­
ing raised through a variety of non- 
traditional arrangements; in some cases, 
fathers are rearing children, in others 
children are reared by outsiders in day care 
centers and other such establishments.
As early as pre-school male-female 
stereotypes are changing; boys and girls are 
exposed to play situations of different sex 
roles; young boys are now encouraged to 
participate in traditional girl’s games such 
as “house” and girls are encouraged to use 
“tools” and other masculine-type toys in their 
play. On the high school level, girls are tak­
ing more math and science courses, which
were once largely populated by boys. Ob­
viously, the gender gap is narrowing, possibly 
contributing to the movement towards social 
androgeny .
Whatever the cause behind homosexuali­
ty, the effect is becoming evident. Gay per­
sons are fighting for their rights against 
discrimination in an attempt to establish 
their identity in society. And, as homosex­
uals come out of the closet, the stigmas 
associated with gays fades. But no matter 
how hard they try, gays are confronted with 
a negative attitude from a great many peo­
ple. Gays are constantly linked to negative 
issues; the AIDS tragedy currently the most 
obvious example.
Regardless of how hard gays push to be 
recognized and accepted, there will always
be people unwilling to understand them. 
However, at college, particularly at CMU, 
gays are able to find their niche.
The biggest gripe most students had 
about homosexuals was that some go over­
board. As one student put it, “The only gays 
that offend me are the ones struck by the 
notion that being gay is fashionable.”
Nobody wants to see a person flaunting 
their sexuality whether they’re homosexual 
or straight; perhaps that’s why “flaming” 
homosexuals are the brunt of so many jokes 
and not taken seriously
Christy Casamassima is a junior majonng 
in Professional Writing. She is also Feature’s 
Editor for the Tartan.
Provisions for handicapped students
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie-Mellon is not a particularly 
large university but it seems to pride itself 
on a diverse student body with many dif­
ferent interests, talents and needs. We all 
reap the benefits of this diversity, being ex­
posed to such variance is always interesting, 
and while the University tends to nurture this 
individualsim, it must also be prepared to 
address the needs of each member of the 
campus community. Recently, CMU has 
begun to examine and respond to the needs 
of the small, but apparently growing 
number of disabled students.
Discovering and understanding these 
needs is predominately the realm of Dr. Lin­
da Binstock, Director of Federal Compliance 
and Coordinator of Disabled Students. 
Federal law states that once a student has 
been accepted, all the university’s programs 
must be made accessible to that student. 
This includes housing, classes, dining ser­
vices and administrative services. While the 
law may be a worthy incentive to modify the 
campus, both Alan Cox, a senior applied 
mathematics major, and Karen van Dusen, 
a junior in applied mathematics, point out 
that CMU has accommodated their needs 
beyond the mere requirments of the law, and 
feel that Dr. Binstock and CMU have made 
commendable efforts to meet their in­
dividual needs.
Recent improvements to the campus in­
clude modification of the restrooms in 
several of the academic buildings, making 
the doors of Hunt Library easier to handle 
and altering the kitchen doors in Skibo to 
make the elevator accessible. Dr. Binstock 
says that one of the more interesting and 
challenging projects was adding a ramp to 
the college of Fine Arts, where functionali­
ty must first answer to the aesthetic ap­
pearance of the building.
Improvements which are on the agenda, 
but which have yet to be implemented in­
clude restrooms in Scaife Hall, public 
telephones in Skibo and more dorm 
facilities. In addition, Alan Cox, a senior in 
Applied Mathematics, points out that there 
is no convenient way to get into Ham- 
merschlag Hall. With respect to that pro­
blem, Dr. Binstock expects to see a ramp 
built from Wean Hall to Hammerschlag, 
providing easier entrance into that building.
Only recently have dorm rooms been set 
aside specifically to provide housing for the 
disabled. Since most of CMU’s housing is 
located on “the Hill”, Morewood Gardens 
was the only logical choice for this new hous­
ing. Tony Martin, Director of Housing, 
points out the importance of making the 
same opportunities available to all Carnegie- 
Mellon students. Currently, the University 
provides only two rooms designed to ac­
comodate a student in a wheelchair or with
a seeing eye dog. These rooms feature extra 
space, large closets and bathrooms for add­
ed maneuverability, and lowered telephones 
and light switches. While the renovation of 
these rooms seems to have been im­
plemented both thoughtfully and successful­
ly, more of their kind will probably be need­
ed in the future. Alan feels certain that if 
CMU provided more housing for the disabl­
ed, this would encourage more students with 
disabilities to seek admission to Carnegie- 
Mellon. Karen also sees housing as the single 
largest issue at CMU with regards to disabl­
ed students. She remembers it as her biggest 
concern when considering college choices 
and emphasizes that any disabled student 
coming to CMU should have the opportunity 
to live on the groud floor, if not for the sake 
of convenience, then for the reasons of fire 
safety.
But we all have problems empathizing 
with one another, and Alan and Karen ad­
mit that they cannot anticipate what other 
students with disabilities may need. Few 
changes have been implemented in the 
H&SS buildings for instance, because there 
are currently no students who have required 
such changes. This may discourage a pro­
spective freshman with physical disabilities, 
who is interested in psychology, for instance 
and finds out where the psych department 
is located, but Karen feels certain that if a 
student needed modifications, Dr. Binstock
would see that they were made.
Just as these two students have problems 
empathizing with other disabled individuals,
we have problems empathizing with Karen 
and Alan. Trips to the bookstore are a near 
impossibility, the gym facilities are out of the 
question, and while Kiltie is difficult to get 
to, the Tartan Grill is completely inaccessi­
ble. Certainly there are problems, but Karen 
and Alan have a definite sense of priorities. 
They hope to see these conditions improved 
at some point in the future and also intend 
to make certain that buildings which CMU 
builds in the future include full accessibili­
ty for the handicapped, but both for the pre­
sent are satisfied that their immediate and 
pressing needs have been met by CMU.
The success of Dr. Binstock s job relies on 
communication between herself and the 
students. Input from outside of CMU also 
helps with questions of technical feasibility 
and may address issues of accessibility which 
CMU’s own students have not considered. 
Linda Binstock seems to relish the oppor- 
tuntity to arbitrate for the needs of these in­
dividuals, and Karen says that in her ex­
perience, CMU has been “very, very ac­
comodating.” Though it is not easy to 
understand the needs of others, whose in­
dividual situations may differ from our own, 
Alan stresses the importance of “ap­
preciating the needs of others, not necessari­
ly just the handicapped.'’

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—October 29, 1985
Ham radio offers new ways to communicate
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Amateur radio is a very progressive and 
high-technological field today that is exten­
ding not only into the realm of communica­
tions and broadcasting, but also into the 
worlds of electrical engineering, computers, 
public service, astronomy, aeronautics, 
buggy, telecommunications, and other hob­
bies as well.
Amateur radio, also known as ham radio 
(although no one seems to know why) has 
often been associated with people who like 
to shack themselves up for countless hours 
in a small locked corner of the house or 
garage and all they hear is a continual dit- 
dit-dit. Well, that is truly a grave misconcep­
tion because amateur radio is one of the 
most progressive and advancing fields of 
technology today. Advancements are being 
made in many fields that are not only help­
ing hams but also the community and 
mankind.
Take for example the Mexican earthquake 
disaster. It was ham radio operators who 
organized the relief measures, the rescue 
operations, and the aid operations for that 
area. Hams have been helping with disasters 
for years by opening up communication lines 
when phone lines are inoperable. They have 
also helped in such local disasters such as the 
Johnstown Flood and the tornadoes in Nor­
thwestern Pennsylvania. Hams nationally 
conduct emergency preparation exercises 
known as Field Day. This yearly exercise 
gives amateur radio operators’ preparation 
and training for operation during disaster 
and emergency conditions. They must go to 
remote isolated locations and operate total­
ly portable, without external commercial 
power or antennas and practice relaying
messages and conducting emergency opera­
tions during these simulated crises. This is 
not to say, however, that hams are just need­
ed and useful items of devastation...
Hams have advanced and implemented a 
new system for computer to computer 
linkeage called Packet Radio. Through this 
system, a computer can converse to another 
computer with 100% accuracy. No more 
modem business over the phone lines where 
often one sees jumbled messages, and no 
more long distance phone charges. Packet 
makes use of the free airwaves by taking in­
formation, bundling it into small packets 
and sending them in very short bursts to 
other radios. A whole network is being 
created across the United States whereby 
these packets are relayed from one radio sta­
tion to another until it reaches it’s destina­
tion. The individual packets have their own 
destination routing much like airlines bag­
gage (but with Packet, each message will 
ALWAYS reach it’s destination). CMUs ham 
club is currently using Packet for computer 
communications as well as is part of the na­
tionwide network.
Another one of the many facets of ham radio 
is satellite and space communication. 
Radio signals are relayed through an or­
biting communications satellite, OSCAR 
(Orbiting Satellite Carrying Amateur Radio) 
and transmitted around the world. CMU not 
only utilizes OSCAR, but also made history 
by communicating with one of the recent 
space shuttle missions which had a ham 
operator on board. Plans are currently be­
ing developed for additonal conversing with 
future missions.
Slow Scan TV is another of the broad 
modes that ham radio covers. TV images 
can be transmitted through ham radio fre-
—r—I
M
.
DDYSSEY
presented by United Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh 
through a grant from Pittsburgh Presbytery.
Dr. Robert John Russell
Executive Director 
Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences 
Graduate Theological Union 
Berkeley, CA
SCIENCE and RELIGION:
Converging Paths in a Post-Modern Culture
¡3aäas
iüöuas
Friday, Ilovember 1st 
4:3Q - 5:30 pin. 
The Wherrett Room, Skibo
Dr. Russell holds degrees in physics from Stanford University (BS), UCLA 
(MS) and UC-Sento Cruz (PhD). He also earned a Bachelor of Divinity from 
the Pacific School of Religion and is an ordained minister in the United 
Church of Christ. Dr. Russell taught physics at Carleton Cc’lege in 
Northfield, fIN, and has taught theology in the Jesuit School of Theology 
and the Graduate Theological Union at Berkeley. His publications include 
articles in The Journal of the American Physical Society and in 
Zygon: The Journal of Science and Religion.
quencies, such as those images transmitted ings while trying to relay tuning information 
by the space shuttle on all it’s missions. These as well as control safety not only on race day, 
images, primarily for NASA’s use, can be but also during many of the practices. They 
received and re-transmitted on to regular use portable handi-talkies to communicate. 
TV through the ham bands. CMU is cur- The CMU ham club is really a group of 
rently working on a projuct to build their people who truly like to be abreast of the 
own re-transmitter so that with a $30 or $40 current advances in high-tech and science.
converter, anyone in the Pittsburgh area can 
receive live shuttle video.
One of the most important aspects for 
CMU’s radio community is the ham club’s 
involvement with buggy. They are the ones 
that can be seen freezing early in the mom-
But they are also very involved and concern­
ed with the community and society. They are 
there, not only to create, make friends , 
around the globe, and have fun, but are as 
a service to the community, aiding whomever, 
whenever, and wherever needed.
Cliques: Why didn't they die 
in high school?
By MICHAEL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the things I was looking forward 
to when I left high school two years ago, was 
getting away from the high school type of 
community; I was tired of all the little 
groups. There were the jocks, the 
cheerleaders, the brains, and the burn-outs. 
When I got to CMU I expected a big change. 
I was certain that in a university of five thou­
sand people there couldn’t be a bunch of lit­
tle groups of people who all shun outsiders.
I thought cliques could not possibly exist in 
a place where there are so many different 
types of people.
Well, I was wrong for just that reason. 
There are so many different kinds of peo­
ple here, that they form groups and keep 
very much to themselves. I suppose you can’t 
really blame anyone for this because people 
in the same departments usually have all of 
the same classes. That means that during 
the week, people with similar majors spend 
all of their class time, and probably most of 
their study time with each other.
It’s not just the jocks and brains anymore, 
it’s far more complex than that. You see, 
there aren’t just brains here, we have Comp. 
Sci.’s, EE’s, Mech. E’s, Mem.’s, Chem. E’s and 
an entire array of others. Not all of these 
people associate only with others of the same 
abbreviation, but I doubt many of them 
wander through the CFA building on their 
spare time.
The fact that each of the schools has a dif­
ferent location doesn’t help much either. The 
final result of all of this is that people find 
their own little group to be with, and they 
stay in their own comer of the university. 
What about weekends and leisure time? 
Where does everyone go? Well, as any CMU 
student, no matter what school they are in, 
will tell you, there is not exactly an over­
abundance of things to do here. On 
weekends, those people who are Greek go to 
their houses, those people in drama and art 
usually party amongst themselves, the peo­
ple off campus stay off campus, and the peo­
ple in dorms often have floor parties or hang
out with each other.By the same token, creative people are no « 
simple matter. CMU has architects, artists, 
design majors, illustration majors, sculptors, 
painters, and many others, including 
dramats. It is probably a rare occurance to 
find any of these people sketching near the 
UCC building, (which is math and science 
territory). It is indeed quite a clash to see 
people hacking away in the modem, sterile- 
looking UCC computer room, and then take 
a walk to the Fine Arts building to see the 
colorful, paint-strewn working space of the 
artists. Each of these groups is very different.
Another diverse and structured campus 
community is the Greeks. Each house, 
fraternity or sorority, stays pretty much to 
themselves, and each of these houses con­
tains a number of people from each of the 
groups I have just described. Every once in 
a while you’ll see two fraternities getting 
together for a party or a charity, but this is 
pretty rare. They usually have only one thing 
in common...the desire to compete with one 
another.
As you can see, CMU’s student body is ac­
tually broken up into a number of cliques. 
This is too bad, I think, because each group 
is missing the things that the others have to 
offer. Just imagine this campus if everyone 
worked together. The hackers could teach 
the art students computer graphics, and in 
return, the art students would be allowed to 
decorate UCC. The Dramats could teach 
the EE’s how to act at all of their job inter 
views, and all of the Greeks could trade 
buggy secrets and party tapes.
ZHCmCVI CK&LC%
Cheshpelapying
anytime 12:00 to 2:00 
in Salads Plus 
EVERYONE WELCOME
rnoy ¡n?ii£)
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 7
Pleasure Bar Restaurant's Italian buffet
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Conjure up your best recollection of an 
Italian family restaurant, then place it in the 
heart of Pittsburgh. As Mamma stirs the 
sauce from the back and the children roll 
the pasta dough, Papa tends the bar. The 
Pleasure Bar Restaurant has been Bloom­
field’s rendition of the comer family 
restaurant for over 40 years. This tradition 
continues as the Miriani family purchased 
the restaurant in 1981.
From the outside, the Pleasure Bar’s neon 
sign gives the appearance of seedy cocktail 
lounge; the luminous “$6.95 All You Can 
Eat Buffet” sign is the only indication that 
inside there is a restaurant. However, as one 
gets closer, the aroma of garlic and pizza 
gives the restaurant away.
Inside one finds a buffet table, laden with 
over five different entrees, homemade soups, 
breads, and a salad bar with the restaurant’s 
famous pasta included in the spread. If buf­
fet dining is not your style, a friendly waitress 
will bring you a menu of the house 
specialties.
Mi
The restautant is noisy, as people at the 
bar shout over one another and the T. V. 
And, at most tables you’ll notice large pit­
chers of beer contributing to the boisterous 
atmosphere.
Homemade pasta is the restaurant’s claim 
to fame, and it ranges in selection from the 
traditional spaghetti and linguini tor just 
$4.75 to manicotti, thin homemade crepes, 
stuffed with a light ricotta filling, to 
canelloni, stuffed with veal. The Italian 
medley includes one of each: manicotti or 
canelloni, meat or cheese ravioli, stuffed 
shells with meat or cheese, and rigatoni, also 
for $4.75. Considering the generous helpings 
of pasta, the price is very reasonable.
For appetizers, the antipasto salad for two 
with lettuce, tomatoes, celery, olives, pep- 
peroncini, a variety of thinly sliced meats 
and artichoke hearts is enough tor a group 
of four people. So is the breaded fried 
mushrooms, zucchini, or cheese, whose out­
sides are fried until crisp and golden.
A good choice on the seafood menu is the 
broiled sole cooked in lemon butter and is 
very moist inside. Also notable was the
poultry section, with chicken calabrese, one- 
half of a chicken broiled until crispy in a 
butter coating, surrounded by green pep­
pers and olives and basted in wine; and 
chicken cordan bleu, also memorable 
because the boneless chicken was stuffed 
with prosciutto rather than ham, and melted 
swiss cheese.
While sampling the menu turned up an 
array of Italian dishes, homemade pasta, 
and seafood, the best deal in the house was 
the buffet. For just $6.95, one gets a chance 
to try a dish from every section of the menu. 
I found two different pastas: a pasta alfredo, 
large shells smothered in a fettucini sauce, 
and a linguini with broccoli and tuna. There 
were three meat entrees: baked chicken in 
a classic Italian sauce, mildly spicy; bread­
ed veal cutlets, and pork chops with a rich 
brown gravy. On the lighter side was the 
broiled lemon sole (when ordered as an en­
tree $8.50). There were two homemade 
soups available: cream of broccoli with 
cheese and a chicken soup with homemade 
noodles. On the side were large hunks of 
garlic bread with parmesan cheese, a selec­
tion of vegetables, and a salad bar. The of­
ferings at the buffet table are unique 
because they are changed daily. One may 
call in advance and find out the night’s 
featured selections.
The restaurant itself is rather tacky; there 
are framed beer pictures in the walls and 
both the booths and the table tops are made 
of vinyl. In addition, the noise from the bar 
filters into the dining area.
This is not the classical italian restaurant 
where one falls in love. Although there is a 
wine list on every table, beer was the prefer­
red drink, indicating something about the 
type of customers who frequent the 
restaurant. People don’t come for the am­
biance, they come for the food, which is 
always homemade and always served in over- 
generous quantities.
The Pleasure Bar restaurant is located in 
the heart of the Italian section of Bloom­
field, at 4729 Liberty Avenue. The 
restaurant is open from 11:00am daily. Call 
682-9603 for information on the buffet
Pseudo "attitude throwers:" give up your acts
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Contribututing Editor
Attitude. Webster’s defines this word as “n. 
1. bodily position or posture. 2. A bearing 
or manner assumed indicative of one’s feel­
ings, opinions, etc.” The campus abounds in 
this one quality.
Don’t take it the wrong way; its not bad 
attitude—just attitude. You can’t define at­
titude’s characteristics, but you know when 
you see it. A brush with death is more 
pleasant.
Typically, students who throw attitude 
(that is what you do with it) dress well — 
offbeat sometimes, but well. They look 
something like dramats, preppies, etc.; 
anything but nerds or beefheads. The one 
distinguishing feature about them, however, 
is the presence of attitude glasses, the piece 
de resistance of their wardrobe.
Attitude glasses, simply defined, are 
sunglasses taken to the nth degree of their 
potential by the wearer. The proper pair of 
shades are essential. Without them, attitude 
won’t travel any further than the end of your 
nose.
It should be noted, though, that attitude 
is a quality. It is inbred. You’re either bom 
with it or without it. It isn’t a skill that can 
be acquired or learned. Some people, un­
fortunately, haven’t learned their lesson yet. 
Nothing can be worse than seeing people 
trying to throw attitude when they don’t have 
any attitude to throw. It’s a sad sight, sad
and pathetic, like an old dog trying to learn 
a new trick.
So if you’re one of these pseudo attitude- 
throwers, take note: spare yourself the em­
barrassment. It is our duty (those of us with 
genuine attitude, those of us who can carry 
it) to be on the alert for the imposters. We 
can put them in their place simply by 
lowering the glasses a little raising one
eyebrow, giving them a withering stare (a 
Davis or Crawford one does nicely), and say­
ing “Honey, you have got to hang it up!”
Now that’s what I call attitude.
Need Assistance in Finding On-Campus Employment?
Any students who are interested in working on 
campus through the College Work-Study Program 
and are having difficulty in finding a position 
on campus should contact Mrs. Joan Holzman, 
Student Employment Records Coordinator, 211 
Warner Hall. She is available to assist students 
on Tuesdays, Wednesdays* and Thursdays from 
11 a.m. - 1 p.m.
TALK TO 
DRAPER
Friday, November 15, 1985 
Carnegie-Mellon University
BS/MS/PhD Candidates - join some of the nation's 
most respected and inventive people at developing innovative and fascinating new technologies. As a leading hands-on "working laboratory" in 
Technology Square, we offer a Unique environment for your career to grow and develop. Positions are currently available for candidates in EE, ME, Aero-Astro, CS, Physics and other technical
•TestEngineering• Materials Science• Mechanical Design• Triboiogy• Robotics/ Automation
We are a community of 2,000 and growing. If you're looking for a competitive salary, outstanding benefits package, including tuition reimbursement, and a state-of-the-art professional challenge - we want to talk to you.
Details available at your Placement Office. The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc., 555 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139. We 
are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
U.S. Citizenship required.
The Charles Stark Kgs' Draper Laboratory, Inc
fields in the following areas:
• Control• Real TimeSystemsSoftware• Avionics• Artificial• Analog &IntelligenceDigital• Solid State•VLSIPhysics• Computer•OpticsEngineering• Spacecraft• SoftwareDynamicsDevelopment• Guidance &NavigationAnalysis

---------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------- a- _______3£i_____________¦ . ___... . ¦ : . ¦ V. ¦¦¦¦-. ........." . ,........ ,...... 
4th Annual Airband Competition
Saturday, November 9, 8 PM
Skibo Ballroom
Hosted by Scott Jones
' ¦ / " * 1 JCash Prizes! $150, $100, $75
Group sign up—October 30, 11 a.m.-Noon 
Grey Matter Skibo
All details of participation will be given at 
signups.
First 12 groups will participate.
$25 check must accompany sign up, and 
will be given back at the end of 
performance.
• . r- *
Performances cannot exceed 7 minutes.
High quality cassette of songs must be 
handed into the Info Desk by Nov. 6th. .

---------------------------------------------------

tfitertamment
Madman takes over the Wherrett Room
It is very hard to swallow a unicycle whole, but Murph gave it his best effort.
Halloween at Forbes Gallery
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Anyone lounging around Skibo’s Gray 
Matter last Friday evening was loudly inter­
rupted by a screaming madman. No, it 
wasn’t a Tartan Staff escapee. It was Murph, 
the “physical comedian,” announcing that 
his show was ready to begin and that he 
needed 3000 people in the Wherrett Room 
before he could start the performance.
Before the actual “show” show began, 
Murph was like a street entertainer in the 
aisles, folding balloon animals for people, 
telling everyone to sit down and get comfy, 
and basicaly making friends with his 
audience.
The true, actual “show” show began with 
a suave beginning (Murph in a tux) and 
some hat balancing/kicking/catching tricks, 
which progressed into all sorts of painful- 
looking pratfalls and bodily contortions. 
Through these opening sketches, Murph 
established basicaly what a “physical come­
dian” is. He hardly spoke during these scenes 
but already the laughter was strong. But this 
was only a hint of the talent he would display 
throughout the show.
Each sketch revealed some new fantastic 
ability, all of which were only a small part 
of Murph’s skills, as he said after the show. 
He climbed a ladder that had nothing 
holding it up, and up there he juggled just 
as well as he had on the ground, and folded 
more balloons. Through most of the show 
he tentativly offered balloon animals to girls 
in the audience, followed by a sheepish grin 
and the offer of a stiff handshake. He used 
the same procedure to get healing kisses 
when he “accidentally” fell and hurt his 
elbow, his jaw, his derierre (as a joke on a 
joke), and finaly his cheek. The girl who 
chose to kiss his cheek met his lips when he 
suddenly turned his head, sending him into 
a tizzy of laughter and acrobatics, ending up 
with a full back flip.
Oh, but there was much more. He per­
formed a juggling ballet, rode two killer 
unicycles (the second was twice as tall as the 
first), and performed muscleman techniques, 
displaying a muclebound character “who 
could balance three chairs on his chin but 
could not drink water without crushing the 
glass because of the tension in his muscles.
Nicolas Beriozoffs colorful and festive 
Don Quixote based on the romantic story by 
Cervantes open on October 31 through 
November 3, at Heinz Hall. This highly 
entertaining version emphasizes the Spanish 
folklore, rhythm and emotions. The gypsy 
temperament and their almost savage ap­
proach to love, music and dance is woven 
thoughout this three act ballet, set to the 
music of Leon Minkus.
Guest artist, Miguel Campaneria, a 
former principal with the Pittsburgh Balllet 
Theatre has returned to Pittsburgh and will 
partner Maria Teresa del Real and guest 
dancer, Janet Popeleski, in the leading roles 
of the lovers, Basilio and Kitri.
Bronislava Nijinska’s Les Noces (The Wed­
ding), which will be presented with The 
River, and Concerto Barocco on November 
7,8,9, and 10 at Heinz Hall, has amazed au­
diences since 1923, when it first opened in 
Paris.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
The theme is simple, it depicts the wed­
ding perarations of a bride and a 
bridegroom and concludes with a festive 
celebration. Yet, before it is done, one feels 
that one has watched a timeless ritual. 
Everything is larger than life; for instance, 
the bride’s braids stretch across much of the 
stage; every movement is thrilling and the
He created a balloon dog under this per­
sona, tense sinew straining at every twist, on­
ly to release all the pressure when he 
presented the balloon to a girl and shook her 
hand. This was physicaly sweet and funny; 
tremendously not unlike spoken comedy.
One of Murph’s techniques was to stall 
before each difficult trick to suggest that 
these exercises were not already second 
nature. Some of his stunts took 3 or 4 years 
and some minor injuries to learn, and some 
are still bieng perfected. Many have their 
roots in gymnastics, which he practiced in 
college. He also studied juggling, mime, im­
provisation, and clowning, his major in­
fluences being Buster Keaton and a per­
former called Dimitri. In the ten years of 
practicing these arts, he says that the hardest 
to develop was comedy. Still, he belives that 
all of his shows “work”; “I feel that I’m 
beyond bad shows—it really depends on the 
audience.”
Murph displayed his control over the 
CMU audience by teaching us when to clap 
and when to say “OOOooooo!” (before a 
dangerous stunt, of course), and by train­
ing us to scream and yell and applaud loudly 
so the people outside would think that they 
were missing something great, which in fact 
they were. He demonstated fine audience 
rapport, never missing a chance to throw in 
a line about some audience comment, or 
about the photographer present, or about 
the 7-month-old baby in the front row which 
happened to gurgle and shriek at ap­
propriately funny times.. .“That’s okay,” said
Murph, “I have the heart of a child......at
home in a jar.”
Offstage, Murph is Tom Murphy, who has 
taught clowning at the Ringling Bros. Clown 
College, and has indeed taught his art 
around the world. His art is the “New 
Vaudeville,” from whence have emerged such 
performers as Bill Irwin and Michael Davis, 
who have received national exposure for 
their physical comedy. Like any performer, 
Murph wouldn’t mind having that type of 
Carson/Letterman exposure. “Sure, I’d love 
to make twice the money for the same act.” 
Wouldn’t we all.
(Murph’s show was arranged by the AB 
Coffeehouse Committee, who brough you 
Yakov Smirnoff to CMU earlier this year.)
sequences of leaps grow increasingly 
intoxicating.
Staged for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
by Bronislava Nijinska’s daughter, Irina Ni- 
jinska; in an interview, Irina said that “Les 
Noces had deep personal significance for her 
mother while she was separated from her 
brother. Also, the period’s political turmoil 
made her realize she would probably never 
return to Russia. It expresses that tragedy 
of departure by showing the bride’s 
sadness at leaving home, a sadness similar 
to Nijinska’s. Yet the ballet contains anticipa­
tion for a new life.”
Also on this program: The River to music 
by Duke Ellington and choreography by 
Alvin Ailey, brought back by popular de­
mand; and Concerto Barocco, choregraphy 
by George Balanchine to music by Bach; a 
great audience favorite.
Patricia Wilde, Artisitic Director of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, stated that “this 
program will offer audiences an hypnotic 
evening of entertainment, from the beautiful 
Balanchine to the sensual music and dance 
of Ailey’s The River, culminating in the 
timelsss and majestic performance of Les 
Noces featuring the Bach Choir conducted 
by Max Peterson.”
Tickets are available for all performances 
and may be ordered by calling 281-0360; 
and also at Heinz Hall Box Office, Kauf- 
mann’s and Gimbels.
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Stephanie Ashton, Mon tie Cholmeley- 
Jones, Ron Dill, and Stephanie McGuire are 
opening their Forbes Gallery show tonight 
from 7:00 to 9:00 pm. They’ll have jack-o- 
lantems and everything so come prepared 
for Halloween. Or show up any time before 
Sunday night — there’s no guarantee that 
pumpkins will be around the whole time, 
but there are sure to be paintings, drawings, 
and sculpture.
Stephanie Ashton will be showing metal 
sculpture and crayon drawings. One 
sculpture is about her childhood (she grew 
up on a farm), and shows a fenced in hill 
going through its various stages—freshly 
plowed, fertile, and dying. The hill is work­
ed in painted copper and edged in a strip 
of copper that features childlike depictions 
of home and school. One of the drawings she 
will be showing is about Heaven, shown as 
a cow in a field. (Hell is a chain link fence 
in the companion drawing.) These drawings 
frame themselves with repeating patterns 
which evoke the moods of these specific, 
unusual ideas of ultimate good and ultimate 
bad. Stephanie has commented on the art 
BS —the jargon, the trends —in other 
drawings.
Montie Cholmeley-Jones says of his work 
that “right now it’s in a stage where it’s ex­
ploration.” For this show he is displaying 
several oil paintings and some drawings, ex­
ploring the artistic possibilities of the human 
figure. Perhaps the most noticeable thing 
about his painting is the degree to which he 
leads the eye around, like a map, figures
flowing toward each other, being repelled by 
each other, connected by thick, bright 
streams of paint. At other times, though, his 
work is more separate, his subjects more 
recognizably human.
Ron Dill, in his drawings, sculpture, and 
paintings, says that he is trying for “a univer­
sal way of making marks. One common to 
all men...I’m experimenting with different 
media. I wouldn’t say I’m a painter or a 
draftsman or a sculptor. I haven’t settled 
down yet.” His drawings are large, charcoal 
on paper, and use very sharp lines as a sim­
ple way of saying things. The subjects are 
visible, not out of his head, and real, but 
he then abstracts their shapes and lines to 
explore their expressive qualities. The two 
sculptures he will be showing are both metal 
works, one a representation of a church with 
a copper pew and handrail, a glass angel, 
and a wooden base. The other sculpture he 
is showing is a rusting etched steel plate with 
an angel (complete with halo and wings) on 
one side and a devil (complete with pit­
chfork) on the other. The heavy rusted metal 
combined with the images on it “makes its 
own statement.”
Stephanie McGuire will be showing oil 
paintings and collages this week. Her work 
emphasizes the human form; her paintings 
are abstract, for the most part, but the flow 
of lines, colors and shapes gives the sense of 
actual bodies and the way they look and feel. 
Her life-sized collages are almost life size 
representations of people, but the bodies are 
distorted and covered with different textures 
and colors. Gruesome, but it is Halloween, 
after all.
Don Quixote and Les Noces

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-The Tartan-October 29, 1985
Get your career off to the right start with 
the company that started a revolution in 
the CAE industry. Our fully-integrated, 
high-powered, Apollo-based worksta­
tions have changed the way designers 
work.. We’ve captured the lead in world 
CAE sales, and we re expanding our 
efforts in both hardware and software.
If you want to do things right, do them at 
Mentor Graphics. We currently have 
opportunities for:
Software Development Engineers 
Hardware Development Engineers
To Find Out More See Us On Campus
November 6, 1985 
7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Skibo, Room 11
If you can’t attend, send your resume to 
Mentor Graphics, College Relations 
Dept., 8500 S.W. Creekside Place, Bea­
verton, OR 97005-7191. We are an affir­
mative action and equal opportunity 
employer.
Isaac Asimov returns with Robots and Empire
Robots and Empire is an important and 
intriguing addition to the Asimovian future I 
history. Though it fails to break and new * 
ground in science fiction, it does make 
fascinating use of familiar territory.
Start your career 
the way we started 
our company Right.
$98NEW YORK
THANKSGIVING
ROUND TRIP VIAPEOPLEXPRESS
Depart PIT Nov. 27 at 7:15 p.m. 
Depart EWR Dec. 1 at 5:25 p.m. 
CHRISTMAS TO NEW YORK & BOSTON366-7855
take chances.
The placid, stagnant Spacers are unwilling 
to colonize new, untamed planets. The 
adventurous Settlers threaten to overwhelm 
the Spacers with their rapidly growing 
numbers. Interstellar war seems imminent.
Detective Elijah Baley has long since died 
when the story opens, but he appears in oc- , 
casional flashbacks. His partner, the robot 
Daneel, is still around, as is Gladia, 233-year 
old Spacer woman and one-time lover of 
Baley. Also an hand is a Settler merchant 
to provide Gladia with the obligatory love 
interest, and Giskard, a robot who, 
unbeknownst to his human creators, is gifted 
with psychic powers which he uses to in­
fluence important people and hence subtly 
guide human events towards what he hopes 
are beneficial ends.
Issac Asimov
Making trouble for Earth and the Settlers 
are Spacer scientist/politician Kenden 
Amadiro (who provided rather bland 
villainy in the last book) and his much more 
interesting henchman, the scheming and 
ambitious Levular Manamus. To ensure the 
continuing dominance of Spacer culture, the 
two conspire to deal Earth some sort of fatal 
blow that involves messing around with a 
mysterious device called a “nuclear inten- 
sifier.”
This moves along well enough, going from 
the Spacer planets Aurora and Solaria, to 
the Settler planet of Baleworld, to a tense 
battle in deep space, and finally to an in­
teresting climax on a grassy field somewhere 
in eastern Pennsylvania. Characterization, 
as usual with Asimov, is precise but never 
broad or deep. He sets the stage with 
minimal scenery. Ideas are the main attrac­
tion. Asimov is interested in technology and 
culture, the broad sweep of human history, 
continuity and change. The central 
character is really the human race; the dy­
ing Elijah Baley tells Daneel: “The work of ; 
each individual contributes to a totality... 
That totality of human lives — past and pre­
sent and to come—forms a tapestry that has J 
been in existance now for many tens of j 
thousands of years and has been growing j 
more elaborate and, on the whole, more j 
beautiful in all that time... An individual I 
life is one thread in the tapestry and what | 
is one thread compared to the whole?”
Interestingly enough, Robots and Empire 
serves also as a precursor to Asimov’s Foun- j 
dation series, which details the fall of a 
mighty Galactic Empire and the efforts of 
a few to salvage humanity from millennia j 
of anan^iy through the prescient science of \ 
psychohistory.
Isaac Asimov has written over 200 books, ranging from the Foundation series to Asimov’s 
Guide to Shakespeare to The Collapsing Universe. He also publishes an SEScF magazine.
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Robots and Empire is the latest science fic­
tion novel from the prolific pen of Isaac 
Asimov. This one is a follow-up to his series 
of books about Earthman detective Elijah 
Baley and his robot partner Daneel Olivaw. 
Though essentially futuristic mysteries, the 
novels also grappled tangentially with 
broader science fiction themes; specifically, 
the sociological and cultural implications of 
man’s expansion into space and increasing 
dependence on technology.
Robots and Empire casts off the detective- 
story mold and deals directly with future 
humanity at crossroads. The book takes 
place about 200 years after the last book in 
the series (1983’s The Robots of Daum). The 
human race is divided into two hostile 
camps. The so-called Spacers live on worlds 
settled by Earth people thousands of years 
previously. The Spacers have eliminated 
disease from thier environs and have life­
spans that bridge centuries. They live 
leisurely, indulgent lives, and depend heavily 
on robots. They contemptuously regard the 
technologically backward, short lived peo­
ple of the overcrowded Earth as a separate, 
subhuman branch of the species. But now 
Earth is once again sending out colonists to 
settle the stars.
But now Earth is once again sending out 
colonists to settle the stars. These new em- 
migrants, known as Settlers, are still loyal to 
Mother Earth and make up for their short 
life-spans and technological inferiority with 
their rugged self-reliance and willingness to
—Mentor Graphics

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 11
Square dancing comes to the Skibo Ballroom
By LAURA PEIRCE
Special to The Tartan
“Come on, Laura, just give it a try—you 
like dancing and it’s all live music and they 
teach every dance, so it doesn’t matter if you 
know the dances or not.”
“I used to dance in sixth grade and swing 
the boys off their feet when we did the 
Virginia Reel, and it wasn’t fun, and the 
records were all scratchy and full of skips, 
and...”
“The music is all live, remember? And the 
boys are bigger now, remember? They grew 
up! Aw, come on, give it a try—it really is 
fun, besides, I need a ride.”
So, good friend that I am (and not one 
to be willing to be considered unadven- 
turesome), I gave her a ride to the square 
dance, paid two dollars (with student ID) to 
get in, and had a wonderful time. The peo­
ple were fun to be around —bright, in­
terested in music, dance, folklore, and art— 
and very patient with a beginner like me. 
The music was indeed live —a band called 
the Mackin Family Band, (which really is a 
family) who played a kind of amalgam of 
bluegrass-type music which I later learned 
is often called “old-timey” music. Old-timey 
music is the sort of stuff you might have 
heard at any barn dance during the 1850’s; 
lively toe-tapping tunes that make you want 
to get up and dance even if you don’t know 
how.
The star of a square dance is not the 
band, though. The real star is the caller, in 
this case a local artist and dancer and musi­
cian named Dolores Heagy. Dolores is real­
ly talented; she sings, plays almost any 
stringed instrument, teaches Appalachian 
clqgging and runs a group called the Coal 
Country Cloggers (a performing and com­
peting team.)
As impressive as Dolores’ talents and 
abilities are (I’ve seen her playing the ban­
jo, singing and clogging simultaneously and 
very well), she really shines most as a caller. 
She explains and teaches dances incredibly 
well, and has a gift for generating en­
thusiasm and fun in even the stiffest, shyest 
croud. People come off the dance floor in 
search of a new partner, smiling, flushed 
with excitement, and having the time of
DUKE
THE FUQUA 
SCHOOL 
OF BUSINESS
MBA
The Fuqua School of Business at Duke 
University offers one of the finest available 
opportunities for unsurpassed professional 
management training. We are interested in 
men and women who have proven aca­
demic, leadership, and social abilities.
Michael Hostetler 
Director of Admissions
of the Fuqua School 
will be on campus
Wednesday, October 30
Appointment information may be obtained 
by contacting:
Office of Career Services 
and Placement
their lives. Then she calls, “grab a partner 
and form your squares,” and everyone grabs 
the nearest person of the opposite sex, races 
into position, and the teaching of the dance 
figures starts.
Square dances, like New England-style 
contra dances (another popular and similar 
traditional American dance form), are 
danced in couples, and are a series of 
“figures,” or patterns of walking with the 
other people in your set of four couples. 
Because it is the custom to change partners 
with each dance (although there is no 
pressure to do so if you don’t want to), you 
don’t have to bring a “date” or a partner— 
one of the many ways that this kind of dan­
cing differs from Western style squares, 
where the men wear cowboy shirts, boots, 
and string ties and the women wear bouf­
fant skirts and hairdos, and all the calls are 
arcane ones from trucking like “change gears 
and slip the clutch”, meaning turn around 
while letting go of your partner. Another way 
that traditional squares differ from Western 
style is that the dances and any special terms 
(or “calls”) are all taught at the beginning 
of each dance; you might forget what was 
meant by a call, at some point in the dance, 
but there are likely to be seven other people 
in your set who do remember so you pro­
bably won’t get too lost. (They also know 
that at any time they might forget the call, 
too, so it pays not to be nasty when someone 
else does...)
The key things to remember about square 
dancing are: it’s FUN; anyone can do it, 
because every dance is taught; the music is 
live; they people are a pleasure to be around, 
and make everyone feel welcome; it’s easy, 
and you get lots of help frm the others in
your set it you’re shaky in the memory 
department; the music is live, traditional 
and danceable —that’s the whole purpose!
Oh yeah!—you don’t need to bring a part­
ner, either. Unlike many other places, where 
women usually outnumber men, the ratio is 
just about 1:1 at most of the dances around 
Pittburgh. Sometimes there might be a few 
more one way or the other, but that’s 
relatively rare here.
The dances around CMU happen once a 
month, on a Wednesday, although the par­
ticular Wednesday changes from month to 
month. The admission is $2.00 with student 
ID, $3.00 without ID, and there’s a free
workshop at 7:30 p.m. for those who want 
to learn or practice a few calls ahead of time. 
The dance itself begins at 8:00 p.m., and 
ends at 11:00 p.m., and they are all in Skibo 
Ballroom. The next dance is tomorrow 
night, October 30th. There is another dance 
on November 14th and one on December 
4th, with a different but equally good band, 
Whiskey On Tap. If you want general infor­
mation about dancing in Pittsburgh in the 
traditional mode, call 351-6928 (there are 
dances at least every Friday, and many other 
evenings as well). For more information 
about the CMU dances, call 242-2125 or 
send mail to LPOD@ TE. See you this 
Wednesday!
photo by Andy Gillespie
Jimbo Voorhees and the Electric Jam Cult led off the Talent Show last Sunday.
Northern Telecom...A Rational Career Choice
The merger of computer technology and telecommunications has made our 
industry THE growth field for the 80’s and beyond. As a dynamic company that 
deals in communications technology, we can offer a wealth of challenges to 
graduates in Engineering, Computer Science, Marketing, Finance/Accounting, 
Business Systems and Human Resources. With facilities in 14 major U.S. cities, 
we can probably match your desires with an area that offers the climate and 
amenities you want.
Since we believe in promotion based on achievement, you can set your own 
pace for advancement. We offer industry-competitive compensation and our 
benefit program ranks among the best in the industry. Talk to our recruiter 
during his or her next visit to your campus. We will be happy to answer all of 
your questions about locations, project assignments, and our projected 
growth.
See your placement office to schedule an interview with our division 
representative from Headquarters/Nashville on campus November 5.
For more information, send a resume or a letter to:
Northern Telecom Inc.
Manager, College Relations 
Northern Telecom Plaza 
200 Athens Way 
Nashville, TN 37228-1803
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h
We hire talent
northerntelecom
MANUFACTURING PLANTS & RESEARCH FACILITIES: Ann Arbor, Ml • 
Atlanta, GA • Concord, NH • Creedmoor, NC • Marlton, NJ • Minneapolis, 
MN • Morton Grove, IL • Mountain View, CA • Nashville, TN • Raleigh, NC • 
Dallas, TX • San Diego, CA • Santa Clara, CA • West Palm Beach, FL

---------------------------------------------------

if Elizabeth Barrettand Robert Browning had AT&T’s 60% and 40% discounts^ it would ha ve been a ter rible loss for f
on your state-to-state calls.
Call between 5pm and 11pm, Sunday 
through Friday, and you’ll save 40% on your 
state-to-state calls.
So when you’re asked to choose a long 
distance company, choose AT&T. Because 
with AT&T’s 60% and 40% discounts, you 
can satisfy your heart’s desire without 
exhausting your means.
Reach out and touch someone.®
And of course, she wouldn’t have had to 
restrict her feelings to a mere sonnet’s 
length, either.
After all, you can always think of one 
more way to tell someone you love them 
when you’re on the phone.
Let us count the ways you can save. 
Just call weekends till 5pm Sundays, or 
from 11pm to 8am, Sunday through Friday, 
and you’ll save 60% off AT&T’s Day Rate
AT&TThe right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Assured of Div. Ill playoff berth
Tartans take PAC with win over Bethany
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
In their final confrontation of the regular 
season, the Tartans recorded a 38-13 victory 
over the Bethany Bisons. This victory had 
much significance for the team in that it 
marks their capture of the PAC champion­
ship. Also, it marks the fourth time in CMU’s 
history that the football team has finished 
a regular season undefeated.
Perhaps more importantly, this victory 
assures the Tartans of a NCAA Division III 
playoff berth. CMU is ranked third nation­
wide and first in the NCAA’s Southern 
Region. Lastly, this victory almost insures 
that the Tartans will have also captured the 
Meadowlands/Lambert Cup, a symbol of 
small-college supremacy in the Northeast.
The outlook was a confident one for this 
game, and the victory, which leaves the team
at.8-0, was somehow not surprising. The 
opening play showed Bethany with an off­
sides penalty of five yards only to be follow­
ed by an offensive CMU strike leading to a 
first quarter touchdown by quarterback 
Mike Hensel on a 14 yard run. Hensel is tied 
for CMU scoring lead with senior fullback 
Victor Boland at seven touchdowns each. 
Hensel has also thrown for nine touchdowns.
In the second quarter, CMU drove 
downfield threatening to a score when 
Hensel was sacked by Bethany’s Jim 
Grocholski. At fourth down and seven, 
placekicker Mike Nazzaro hit on a 24-yard 
field goal to make the score 10-0.
Later in the half, Bethany began to move 
towards their end-zone on an offensive series. 
Freshman quarterback Tracey Finchum put 
the ball up for a long pass only to have it 
gracefully intercepted by defensive-back
Dave Elias. CMU’s next drive included 
receptions by Dave Richards for 19 yards and 
Bill Cramer for 15, but they produced no 
score, and CMU ended the half at a score 
of 10-0.
In the second half, CMU began with an 
offensive series including a number of suc­
cessful rushes by Boland and Cramer and 
a 16 yard pass to tight-end Mike Behling. 
CMU dominated in offensive plays with 77 
to Bethany’s 45. The drive ended with three 
runs by Boland totaling 19 yards with a final 
two yard rush to chalk up a CMU 
touchdown. With the Tartans sitting on a 
17-0 lead, the Bisons showed some ability 
with an offensive attempt ending in a 
Bethany touchdown on a pass from Finchum 
to halfback Scott Angalich.
CMU took the ball downfield again in the 
fourth quarter, handing off often to Boland,
who in this one drive had 34 yards plus a 
two yard touchdown rush. Boland had a 
game total of 128 rushing yards on 26 car­
ries. Tim Denmeade was second with 90 
yards on 10 attempts. CMU completely 
dominated the rushing game with 379 team 
yards to Bethany’s 77.
After Boland’s touchdown, Bethany had 
their four plays and lost the ball back to 
CMU. Through a series of rush attempts and 
a 39 yard pass to Dave Richards, the Tar­
tans scored again on a four yard run from 
Tim Denmeade.
Bethany got on the boards again soon 
thereafter to make the score 31-13. Bill 
Cramer began CMU’s final offensive charge 
with a 27 yard kick return which was follow­
ed by a rushing series lead by Anthony Col- 
laros and Darin Ball. It was capped off by 
a 28 yard touchdown run by junior runn-
#62 Roy Guy, defensive tackle, attempts
ingback Gary Marchionna. This brought 
about the final score of 38-13.
The Tartan schedule, short one game this 
season, started early this year. Most other 
college teams in Division III have two more 
regular season games. So the playoff picture
to sack the Bison’s quarterback.
is far from set.
As of now, the Southern Region is topped 
by CMU, followed by Lycoming(PA), while 
Mercyhurst and Gettysburgh were tied for 
third. But reports have Mercyhurst losing 
last Saturday, possibly opening a spot for
Runningback Gary Marchionna on 28 yard touchdown run which capped the score
at 38-13.
W&J, who was ranked fifth.
The playoffs begin November 23, pro­
bably here at Tech Field. The quarterfinals 
take place on November 30, the semifinals 
on December 7, and the Division III cham­
pionship, known as the Amos Alonzo Stagg
Bowl, on December 14 in Phoenix City, 
Alabama.
Carnegie-Mellon is 2-3 in playoff action 
under Chuck Klausing. Their last ap­
pearance was in 1983, a 16-14 loss to 
Salisbury State(Md).
SKOAL Player of the Game: Victor Boland
Against Bethany, the CMU rushing game 
reigned supreme. Discounting sacks, the Tar­
tan ground game racked up an amazing 409 
yards. 128 of those yards belonged to Vic 
Boland, as did two of the five CMU 
touchdowns, earning him honors as the 
Skoal player of the game for the second time 
this season.
For Vic, this was a special game, his last 
home regular season game, and regardless 
of any upcoming playoff action, it was im­
portant to him to perform well this week. 
It was my best game yet,” he noted.
CMU coach Klausing was also impressed. 
In addition to his accolades about Boland’s 
performance, he noted Vic’s running helped 
set up the pass,” making it a special threat 
weapon.
Statistics bear out Klausing’s claim, as 
quarterback Mike Hensel was seven for eight 
on the day for 117 yards, not spectacular, but 
certainly efficient. In fact, on the two drives 
that Boland finished with a touchdown.
Hensel passed only once, a 16 yard flick to 
tight end Mike Behling.
Both of Boland’s touchdowns came in the 
second half, and both on 2 yard runs. Vic’s 
first put the Tartans up 17-0, while his se­
cond, on the very next drive, made the score 
24-6. Those were his sixth and seventh 
touchdowns of the year, respectively, tying 
him for the team lead with Mike Hensel.
His 128 yards gained puts his season total 
over the 500 yard mark, to 509, the team 
rushing leader. It also puts him near the top 
in the President’s Athletic Conference, 
although he will probably not edge out 
leader Bobby Starks of Hiram who still has 
two games yet to play.
One statistic that makes Boland’s 128 
yards all the more impressive is that his 
longest run was 18 yards. Most, like the two 
touchdown runs, were under five yards. Even 
with several defensive players keying on him, 
he managed at least some gain, never being 
caught behind the line of scrimmage.#12 senior Victor Boland on one of his 26 successful running attempts against Bethan;

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—October 29, 1985
At National you can rent a car if you're 18 
or older, have a valid driver's license, cur­
rent student I.D. and cash deposit. Stop by to fill out qualification form at least 24- 
hours in advance. You pay for gas used 
and return car to renting location. We also accept most major credit cards.
NATIONAL Spelling Bee Champ. Hanbo- NATIONAL 
Honor *xci«fcy and Captain NATIONAL Debate Team 
trying to think cP an <soonomical vnoy home.
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
Harriers run by Thie/en route to next week's PAC's
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The Men’s and Women’s Cross-Country 
teams were both successful over Thiel Col­
lege this weekend shutting them out by iden­
tical scores of 15-50. For the men, it was 
their 72nd consecutive dual meet win and 
with each win they rack up, they improve 
upon their own NCAA record. The Tartans 
took all five places leaving Thiel, literally, 
in their dust. Tying for first, were senior 
Mark Sulecky and freshman Pat Noll with 
scores of 26.05 for the five mile race. The 
next three positions were Keith Stopen 
26.25, Dean Danowski 26.40 and Tom Ford 
27.06 respectively.
For the women, they improved their 
record to 8-1 with this decisive victory on 
their way to next weekend’s PAC Cham­
pionships at Grove City College. In their 2.9 
mile race, the top finishers were Margaret 
Wismer 18.21, Francesca Carnnell 18.43,
Christina de Rad 19.04, Diane Ceonzo 19.33 
and Molly Moritz 20.57. This is the first year 
that these girls have competed as a team and 
there is very great potendal for them to bring
back some honors. ' ° ——---------------/--------
CMU Hockey Club splits open 85-86season.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Camegie-Mellon Hockey Club open­
ed its season on a mixed note, winning its 
opener against Penn State-McKeesport, but 
losing twice at the Gannon Invitational 
Tournament in Erie. The Tartans were 
defeated in the first round of the four team 
tourney by Gannon 5-1, and lost the consola­
tion game to Duquesne 4-2.
Versus Penn State, the Tartans dominated, i 
even the 7-0 final score versus the Nittany 
Lions was an understatement. Camegie- 
Mellon garnered a total of 50 shots against 
a pair of Penn State goalies, while Tartan 
goalie Robert Kosakowski faced a mere three 
shots. In fact, all came in the second period, 
meaning Kosakowski was untested in the first 
and third periods.
Leading the scoring for CMU was starting 
defenseman Sean McGinn, who scored the 
second Tartan goal and assisted on three 
others. Pat Merchak, a first year SUPA 
winger, also collected a pair of goals. 
McGinn added to his scoring tally at the 
Gannon tourney with 2 assists versus 
Duquesne.
Unfortunately for Carnegie, McGinn, may 
be unavailable to the team for the near 
future. Against Gannon on Friday night, 
Sean recieved a cut on his chin requiring 
seven stitches, and re-injured it on Saturday. 
After the tournament, he received treatment 
at Presbyterian Hospital and may require 
further treatment.
In both games at Erie, CMU’s opponent 
jumped out to an early lead. Gannon held 
a 3-0 lead until Bob Koch put home an 
unassisted goal at 10:16 in the second period. 
Versus Duquesne, the Tartans were facing a 
four goal deficit until Steve Desrochers put 
in home goals 33 second apart late in the 
third period. In both cases, he was assisted 
by Rob Katz and Sean McGinn.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean'to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
coh mutruwclFRh
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS
rlmcuwa uEcEhc
* Weekend rate available noon Thursday through Monday. Cer­
tain daily minimums apply.Rates will be slightly lower 
for drivers over 25.
We feature CM cars 
like this Chevrolet Chevette.
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similar- size car and is subject to change without notice. Specific cars subject to availability.Call for details.
ÆT National Car Rental.
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention.*Awlabteat:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 241-5500 
4621 Foribes Avenue {Oakland) **2-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) S72-%fi*7
The CMU Hockey Club in their season opener against Penn State-McKeesport. They won 7-0.
photo by Dkve

---------------------------------------------------

AT&T Bell Laboratories 
AT&T Information Systems 
AT&T Engineering Research Center 
Sandia National Laboratories
We’ve made it easier
Now, when you want to 
interview with a major force 
in America’s research and 
development community you 
only have to sign up once.
AT&T’s R&D 
effort. . .
is constantly pushing back 
the frontiers in the areas of 
photonics, micro-electronics, 
computer hardware and soft­
ware development, with ap­
plications in switching, 
transmission, networks, 
military systems, business 
systems and manufacturing 
systems. We also work in the 
areas of energy extraction, 
conversion and combustion.
Our Mission. . .
is to advance fundamental 
research in the physical 
sciences, material sciences, 
communication sciences, in­
formation sciences and 
manufacturing sciences to 
provide technology for the 
marketplace.
We want to talk 
to. . .
BS, MS, or PhD degree 
students in Computer 
Science, Computer Engineer­
ing, Electrical Engineering, 
Systems Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, 
Operations Research, Nuclear 
Engineering, Applied or 
Engineering Mechanics, 
Human Factors, Physics, and 
Material Chemistry, as well as 
MBAs with a BS or MS in 
Engineering. BS/MS can­
didates must be U.S. citizens 
or permanent residents. 
Citizenship is required for 
employment at Sandia Na­
tional Laboratories.
Our facilities are 
located. . .
in: New Jersey, Illinois, 
California, Colorado, Georgia, 
Indiana, Massachusetts, New 
Mexico, Ohio and 
Pennsylvania.
We will be on 
campus. . .
November 12
Check with 
the Placement 
Office for 
details
An equal opportunity 
employer
AT&T
The right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's choosing during the final exam period.
BIOLOGICALSCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGYMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMDH2315,WEH7500, DH111203130BIOLOGY OF ORGANISMMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMMM10303231BIOCHEMISTRY IMONDEC161:00-4:00 PMADAMSON,, PH125C03240CELL BIOLOGYWEDDEC111:00-4:00 PMBH255A03243EXP TCH GEN HOL BIOTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMWEH540303360VIROLOGYTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMDH120903332ELECTROCHM BIOPHYSHONDEC98:30-11:30 AMDH212203438PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMDH121103442MOL BIO EUKARYOTESTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMWEH542703609FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMDH2105
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06151THERMODYNAMICSMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMDH111206201HEAT/MASS TRANSFERTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMDH111206204PROCESS THERMODYNAMMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMHK B13106301CHEM ENGR KINETICSWEDDEC111:00-4:00 PMWEH7500063C2fROC ENGR & SYNTHMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMSH12506703ADV FLUID DYNAMICSTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMDH A31706717FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMDH2105
FINALS S
21105211112111221121211222112721257
212582125921260 21233 21301 21341 21369 21441 21455 21457 214732148321484 21551 21727
PRE-CALCULUS CALCULUS I CALCULUS II CALCULUS I CALCULUS £ LIN ALG DISCS NATH CHPTR SC OPTHZTN SCX: SCI I
OPTHZTN SOC SCI II CALCULUS IN 3-D DIFFRENTL EQUATIONS OPERATIONS RSCH II COMBINATORICS LINEAR ALGEBRA NUMERICAL METHODS NUMBER THEORY ADVANCED CALCULUS DIFFERENTL GEOMETRY ALGEBRAIC STRUCT OPTIMIZATION APPL GRAPH THEORY MATHEMATCL LOGIC I INTR LEBESGUE INTEG
MATHEMATICS
TUE DEC 10 MOM DEC 16 THU DEC 12 MON DEC 16 TUE DEC 10 FRI DEC 13 MON DEC 16
5:30-6:30 PB 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM
FRI DEC 13 TUE DEC 10 TUE DEC 10 TUE DEC 10 MON DEC 16 TUE DEC 10 NON DEC 9 THU DEC 12 WED DEC 11 MON DEC 16 WED DEC 11 FRI DEC 13 MON DEC 16 WED DEC 11 MON DEC 16
8:30-11:30 AM 5:30-8:30 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 FM 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AH 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM
SH125DH2210, 082315 PH19A, PH19C DH2210, DH2315. PH100 DH2315, WEH7500, DH1212 DH2210WEH7500, MM103,MM14, SH12S DH1112DH2210. DH2315. MM103 PHI00, HH B103, HH B131 SH125DH1212. DH1112, DH A317WEH7500. SH125, DH1212HH B103DH1209WEH5205WEH5403DH1212DH1212PH225CHH B103, HH B131 WEH5205
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24102STATICS DFRM SOLIDSTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMSH20624112FLUID MECHANICSTUEDEC101:00-4:00 PMSH42224121THERMODYNAMICS I AMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMSHI25, HH B131BMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMPH125C, HH B10324141STATICS & DYNAMICSFRIDEC138:30-11:30 AMWEH750024213VISCOUS FLOWWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PHSH42224233HEAT TRANSFERWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMSH22024245DYNAMICS PHYSCL SYSAMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMSH212BMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMSH220CMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMSH20624249DYNAMICS & VIBRATNSTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMPH125C24258NUMERICAL METHODSTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PM081212
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AMD MATERIALS SCIENCE
27131 INTRO MATERIALS SCI
CHEMISTRY
09103ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNGMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMDH1112091C5DYNAMICS & EQUILIBTHUDSC121:00-4:00 PMDH2210,DH2315DH1212,DH111209106BONDING STRUC PRINCFRIDEC138:30-11:30AMDH231509117ORGANIC CHEMISTRY ITHUDEC128:30-11:30AMWEH750009213ORGAN CHEMISTRY IIWEDDEC118:30-11:30AMDH111209243PHYS CHEMISTRY IITHUDEC128:30-11:30AMDH121209711PHYSCL ORGANIC CHEMTHUDEC128>30-ll:30AMDH2105
AHONDEC161:00-4:00 PHWEH5403BMONDEC161:00-4:00 PMWEK542727211THERMODYNAMICS IMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMDH A31727313THERMODYNAMICS IITUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMI» A31727331PHYSCL METALLURGY ITHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMDH A31727441DFRMATN OF HATLSMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMDH121227531MTL ASP SMCND DEV IMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMWEH642327564PRFRM OF ENGR MTLSWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMDH A31727752EXP TECH HATLS RSCHMONDEC161:00-4:00 PMWEH642327756MASTERS PROJECTMONDEC,95:30-8:30 PMDH A31727778MATH MT4D MTLS RSCHTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMWEH540327779STRUCTURE OF MATLSTUEDEC101:00-4:00 PMDH A31727782PHASE TRNS SOLIDS ITUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMDH2122
PHYSICS
33115INTRODUCT PHYSICSTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PHHH103, MM1433121PHYSICS I MECHANICSMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMDH2210. DH2315, WEH7500, MM103,PHIOO,MM1433122PHYSICS II HT WV OPFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PMDH221033123PHYSICS III EL MAGWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMDH2210, DH2315,WEH7500CIVIL ENGINEERING33127PHYS III HNR EL MAGWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMPH125C33130PHYSCL MECHANICS IMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMDH111212207STATICSMON DEC91:00-4:00 PMSH12533435MODERN PHYSICS IITUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMWEH520512241INTR CHPTR APP C EWED DEC118:30-11:30 AMPH19C33437INTRMD ELEC 6 MAG ITHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMWEH540312320STRUCTURAL MECH ITHU DEC128:30-11:30 AMWEH540333445MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMPH125C12330FLUID MECHANICS IMON DEC168:30-11:30 AMADAMSON33463SPECIAL RELATIVITYTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMWEH520512637PRB ENGR PROJ EVALUWED DEC111:00-4:00 PMPH19A33710PRINC INSTRUMENTATNMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMWEH731633755QUANTUM MECHANICS ITUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMWEH6423, VEH7316WEH842733757CLASSICAL MECHANICSMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMWEH540333759INTRO THEO PHYS IMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMWEH731633765STATISTCL MECHANICSTHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMWEH7316
COMPUTERSCIENCE33769QUANTUM MECHNCS IIITHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMWEH731633783THEORY OF SOLIDS IMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMWEH6423
15117INTRO COMPUT LISPWED DEC115:30-8:30 PMWEH520115200SRV PRGMNG STH APPLFRI DEC131:00-4:00 PMDH121215211FUND STR COMP SCI I A BWED DEC WED DEC11118:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AMPH 100 WEB 750015212FND STR COMP SCI IIWED DEC118:30-11:30 AMMM103STATISTICS15312CHPRTV PRGRMNG LANGMON DEC161:00-4:00 PMHH B103,HHB13115:811541215451
ARTFL INT RP PR SL*T OPERATING SYSTEMS APPL ALGRTHM DESIGN
MON DEC WED DEC TUE DEC
161110
8:30-11:30 AM 5:30-8:30 PM 5:30-8:30 PM
WEH7500 SH125 HH B103,HHB131
36101362093621136217
STAT CNCPTS CMP APP PRB APP STA MG SS I PRB APP ST PH S&E I PROB RANDOM PROCESS
THUTUEWEDMON
DECDECDECDEC
1210119
8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM
ADAMSON082210, DH2315, DH1112 SH125, ADAMSON MM14, ADAMSON, PH225C36225INTRO PROB b STAT ITHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMPH100, ADAMSON36309EX DES BEHA SOC SCITHUDEC128:3C-11:30 AMPH2036325PROB & MATH STAT ITHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMPH225C
ELECTRICALAND COMPUTER! ENGINEERING36453INTRO BIOSTATISTICSTUEDEC101:00-4:00 PMBH131A
18101LIN CIRCUIT ANALYTHU DEC121:00-4:00 PMWEH7500,PH125C, PH225C18201FIELD ANALYSIS ENGRTUE DEC105:30-8:30 PMPH 100, WEH750018221ELECTRN CIRCUITS IITUE DEC108:30-11:30 AMDH221018247INTRO COMPUTER ARCHTHU DEC128:30-11:30 AMPH 10018301FNDHNTLS OF CONTROLWED DEC111:00-4:00 PMHH B103,HHB131CIT INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM18331SEMICNDCT DEV APP ITHU DEC125:30-8:30 PMHH B131187012LETRMG FLD THEORYMOM DECg1:00-4:00 PMWEH520539252RL TH COMPUT IN LABTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMHH B103, HR B131.SH12518705MGNTSM MAG MEMORIESWED DECli1:00-4:00 PMDH121118721SEMICNDCT DEV APP ITHU DEC125:30-8:30 PMHH B131
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
1931919701LAW fc THE ENGINEER RSCH METHDLGS EPP ITUE DEC 10 THU DEC 121:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AMPH125CBH131A
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42500 PHYSIOLOGY 42735 PHYSIOLOGYTUE DEC 10 TUE DEC 101:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PMWEH5403 WEH5403

---------------------------------------------------

HEDULE
ALBRECHBCTLH
48160 BASIC CNCPTS IN ARC 48162 IHTRO ARCHTCT HIST 48204 DESIGN ELABORATION 48365 ARC OF L 8 ALBERTI 48382 WORDS 6 SURROUNDMGS 48386 AMER NEIGHBORHOODS
MON DEC 9 THU DEC 12 WED DEC U «ON DEC 16 MON DEC 9 WED DEC 11
1:00-4:00 PM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AM 5:30-8:30 PM 8:30-11:30 A«
BH245CFA206PH225CBH131BBH131BW4M7
MUSIC
57109ELEMENTARY THEORYNONDEC95:30-8:30 PMCFA16057151HARMONY ITHUDEC121:00-3:00 PMCFA16057152HARMONY IIMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMCFA16057153HARMONY IIIMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMCFA16057161EURYTHMICS IMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMMM11957163EURYTHMICS IIINONDEC168:30-11:30 AMMM11957173HISTORY OF MUSIC IWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMCFA16057175SOLFEGE MUS THEA ITUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMMM12757177SOLFEG MUS THEA IIIWEDDEC111:00-4:00 PMMM12757181INTRO TO SOLFEGEMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMMN12757183SOLFEGE IITHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMMN12757204HISTRY OF MUSIC IIIWEDDEC111:00-4:00 PMCFA1605725516TH CEN COUMTERPNTWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMCFA15757257ORCHESTRATION IMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMCFA15757260SCHENKER IM PERFORMMONDEC163:00-5:00 PMCFA15757265FUGUE INONDEC98:30-11:30 AMCFA15757271ORCHESTRATION IITUEDEC101:00-4:00 PMCFA15757277VOCAL PEDAGOGY ITUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMCFA16057332INTRO TO CONDUCTINGTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMACH57347ELCTRN £ CMPT MUS ITHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMCFA10757376SECONDARY METHODSMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMCFA10757407FORM 6 ANALYSISMONDEC168:30-11:30 AMHLLR57422ENGLISH DICTIONTUEDEC101:00-4:00 PMCFA16057445INSTR MTHDS WOODWNDNONDEC91:00-4:00 PMCFA10757459SC RDG £ KYBD HRMTHUDEC123:00-4:00 PMCFA16057606VOICE CLASSMONDEC161:00-3:00 PMCFA15757727VOCAL PEDAGOGYMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMCFA15757760SCHENKER IM PERFORMTHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMCFA10757928NON-WESTERN MUSICTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMHLLR
70101701217015070311
7033270335'03637C42270440704717047470491
HISTORY
79102SHAPING WSTRN CIVWEDDEC118:30-11:301 AMPH125B79103AMERICAN CIVILIZATNATUEDEC101:00-4:00PMMM310ABTUEDEC101:00-4:00PMSH20679104INTRO TO WORLD HISTNONDEC91:00-4:00PMPH125C
79110ORIGIN OF MDRN WRLDWEDDEC115:30-8:30PMPH100. 0H1212,79120DEV OF AMER SOCIETYMONDEC91:00-4:00PMDH2210, PH100
79212HSTRY MDRN SCIENCETUEDEC101:00-4:00PMPH126C
79215DYN EUROPE SOCIETYWEDDEC115:30-8:30PMBH255A
79220CNTMP AMBÌ IN FILMFRIDEC135:30-8:30PMBH235A. BH235B
79222ADVERTISINGNOMDEC95:30-8:30PMPH125B
79226TCHNLGY WSTRN CIVNONDEC95:30-8:30PMPH126B79250INTRO APPL HISTORYTUEDEC105:30-8:30PMPH126C
79308REC AMER FOR POLTUEDEC105:30-8:30PMPH225C
79315HIST PITTSBURGH REGFRIDEC138:30-11:30 AMPH225C
79320AFRO-AMERICAN HSTRYNONDEC98:30-11:30 AMBH254A
79332CHINA TODAYTUEDEC101:00-4:00PMPH126B
79360WTCHCRFT DIS EUROPETUEDEC101:00-4:00PMBH254A
79363BRITISH HISTORYTHUDEC121:00-4:00PMPH126C79367EUROPE INTL AFFAIRSTHUDEC121:00-4:00PMPH226C
79370NODERN RUSSIAFRIDEC131:00-4:00PMBH131B
PHILOSOPH!
80100PHILOS MTH £ MORALS B,GTHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMSH125C.HTHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMMM103ETHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMPH126AITHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMPH225C80201KNOWLEDGE i VALUESTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMPH19C80211LOGIC £ CMPTBLTY ITHUDEC128:30-11:30 AMPH125C80250PHILOS ISSUE POL ANTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMMM310A80271PSYCHOANALYSISHONDEC95:30-8:30 PMBH131A80290TPC HSTRY OF PHILOSTHUDEC121:00-4:00 PMBH245
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
6620266212AGE OF METTERNICH THE MEDIEVAL WORLDMON DEC 16 MON DEC 98:30-11:30 AM 5:30-8:30 PM
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
ELEM INDUSTRL ADMIN FINANC ACCOUNTING FNDHNTLS INSURANCE ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR I A,B C,DGOVRNMNT & BUSINESS BUSINESS AND LABOR LAW MDRN AMER SOC COST ACCOUNTING STRATEGIC MAKAGEMNT PRODUCTION II HUMAN RES MGT MFG FINANCE II
WED DEC 11 THU DEC 12 WED DEC 11
WEDWEDTHUMONFRIMONTUEMONMONMON
DEC 11 DEC 11 DEC 12 DEC 9 DEC 13 DEC 16 DEC 10 DEC 16 DEC 9 DEC 9
1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM
5:30-8:30 PM 5:30-8:30 PM 5:30-8:30 PM 5:30-8:30 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AM 8:30-11:30 AM 1:00-4:00 PM 8:30-11:30 AN
82101ELEMENTARY FRENCHFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PMPH2:i6C82103PROGRAMMED FRENCHFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PMPH225C82121ELEMENTARY GERMANFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PMPHIOO82123PROGRAMMED GERMANFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PMPH225C
PH225C82141ELEMENTARY SPANISHMONDEC95:30-8:30 PMPH226C82143PROGRAMMED SPANISHFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PMPH125CPH125C82161ELEMENTARY ITALIANTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMPH225B82171ELEMENTARY JAPANESEMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMPH226B82201INT FRENCH CULT SOCNONDSC95:30-8:30 PMPH225C82221INT GERMAN CULT SOCFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PMBH235B82261INTERMED ITALIANTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMPH225B82271INTERNED JAPANESENONDEC95:30-8:30 PMPH226B82301FRENCH CONVER COMPATHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMBH229BNN408BTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMBH254ADH221082321GERMAN CONVER COMPTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMPH226CPH125C82341SPANISH CONVER COMPTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMPH125B82415STUD FR J8TH C LITFRIDEC138:30-11:30 AMPH226BMM10382428GERMAN CLASSICL LITWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMBH254AHH B103, HH 3131ADAMSON, PH125CSH125SH125PH100SH324DH1212PH226BBH131APSYCHOLOG!
ECONOMICS
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICSA-HTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMDH2210
73250I-MINTERMED NICROECONTHUDEC125:30-3:30 PMDH2315
AMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMPH21BNONDEC98:30-11:30 AMPH20CNONDEC98:30-11:30 AMPH19A
73300DINTERMED HACRECONMONDEC98:30-11:30 AMPH125C
A,BFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PNDH2315CFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PNWEH750073342MKT ORG BUS BEHAVWEDDEC111:00-4:00 PMPH225C73345INDUS £ LABOR RELTHUDEC125:30-8:30 ?MDH111273359BENEFIT-COST ANALYMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMDH121273360ECONOMETRICS AWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMPH19ABWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMPH20CWEDDEC118:30-11:30 AMSH12573365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PMWEH750073370INTERNATL BCONONICSTUEDEC101:00-4:00 PNADAMSON73420MONETAR THEO POLICYTHUDEC128:30-11:30 ANBH235A
85100COG PROC THEO PRACWEDDEC118:30-11:30 ANDH2210, DH2315, DH121285101GENERAL PSYCHOLOGYMONDEC95:30-8:30 PNPHIOO85110INTRO SYMBOL COMPUTMONDEC168:30-11:30 AHPH19C85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PNPHIOO85213INFO PR PSY ART I NTFRIDEC138:30-11:30 AMPHIOO85221PRINC CHILD DVLPHNTFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PMSH12585241INTRO SOCIAL PSYCHNONDEC98:30-11:30 AMADAHSCN85310RSCH MTHDS COG PSYTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMBH340A85320RSCH MTHD CHILD DEVHONDEC98:30-11:30 AMBH340A85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYNONDEC91:00-4:00 PMBH340A85360PSYCHOANALYSISNONDEC95:30-8:30 PMBH131A85393HUMAN FACTORSTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMPK225C85411COG PROC PR03 SOLVMONDEC161:00-4:00 PMPH226C85422INFANCYWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMBH340A85445SOCIAL COGNITIONTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMBH336B85561CORE COURSE COG PSYTUEDEC108:30-11:30 ANBH336B85711COG PROC PRCB SOLVNONDEC161:00-4:00 PNPH226C85713INFO PR PSY ART INTFRIDEC138:30-11:30 AHPHIOO85716STRUC £ PROC LANGTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMBH24585718LEARNING £ MEMORYWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMPH225C85722INFANCYWEDDEC115:30-8:30 PMBH340A85845SOCIAL COGNITIONTUEDEC105:30-8:30 PMBH336B85861CORE CRS COG PSYCHTUEDEC108:30-11:30 PMBH336B
ENGLISH
76120PRAC PERSONAL RPRTGTUEDEC108:30-11:30 AMBH131B76230BBLCL MYTH BKGR LITTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMBH24576241DISCOURSE HST CHNGTJEDEC105:30-8:30 PNPH125C76244SHAKESPEAREFRIDEC135:30-8:30 PNADAMSON76245SHAKESPEAREMONDEC168:30-11:30 ANBH229B76321TECH £ LITERATUREWEDDEC118:30-11:30 ANBH229B76331GREEK TRAGEDYFRIDEC131:00-4:00 PNPH125C76421IDEOLOGY £ LIT TEXTMONDEC161:00-4:00 PNPH226B76431THOMAS MANNWEDDEC118:30-11:30 ANBH255B76440CHAUCERTUEDEC108:30-11:30 ANBH255A76441SHAKESPEARETUEDEC105:30-8:30 PN .BH255B76791PRESCRIPTV LINGUISTMONDEC91:00-4:00 PMBH255A76819COMPUT £ RHTRCL STDTHUDEC125:30-8:30 PMBH255A
SOCIAL SCIENCES
88102DEC PR AN POL INSTWEDDEC111:00-4:00PNDH2210.88220POLICY ANALYSIS ITHUDEC125:30-3:30PHWEH750088240EHPIRCL RSCH NETH ITHUDEC121:00-4:00PNPH226B88260ORGANIZATIONSTUEDEC108:30-11:30AHADAMSON88280SOCIAL SCI THEORY ITUEDEC101:00-4:00PMBH131B88324RES ALLOC PUB SECTNONDEC161:00-4:00PMBH131B88330INTERNATNL POLITICSTUEDEC101:00-4:00PMPH 2 288342HKT ORG BUS BEHAVWEDDEC111:00-4:00PMPH225C88343GOVRNMNT £ BUSINESSWEDDEC118:30-11:30AMPH126C88352ANTHROPOLOGYTHUDEC128:30-11:30AMPH226C88364CULT TCHNLGCL INNOVWEDDEC118:30-11:30AMBH131B

---------------------------------------------------

with School Name j 
in School Colors! ^
Plus...Achance to win a Schick
BTravel Ran!
long the completed FREE 
¡ick Razor/Sweepstakes entry 
hform from the school paper
bookstore
PIZZA • PIZZA «PIZZA «PIZZA «PIZZA
810 IVY STREET682-3333rnr-r ~ Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sundoy 12 pm-12 am
sell pizza by the
LARGE$*99
PIZZA
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
PIZZA » PIZZA • PIZZA • PIZZA • PIZZA
Address
StateZip Code
Phone #
This coupon is your entry to the Schick Super II Sweepstakes
JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST HEART DISEASE
SUPPORT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION, WESTERN PA. CHAPTER
"BIG HEART" BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
NOV. 22-23 at CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FRIDAY-POINT PARK VS. PITT-JOHNSTOWN, 7:00 
CARNEGIE-MELLON VS. LaROCHE, 9:00SATURDAY-CONSOLATION GAME, 6:00 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME,8:00
INDIVIDUAL GAME 
TICKETS ARE $3 
FOR ADULTS AND 
$1.50 FOR STUDENTS
PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN AWAY EACH NIGHT $100 SCRAMBLE SATURDAY NIGHT
TOURNAMENT TICKETS 
ADULTS-$5 
STUDENTS-$2
FOR TICKETS CALL 578-3087, 578-2211 or 731-7500
"WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE"J

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 19
Pittsburgh's Spirit gains momentum
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Spirit opened their 1985-1986 season 
on a winning note, defeating Cleveland 6-5 
before almost 11,000 frenzied fans. But even 
before the game started, the Spirit had won 
a more crucial battle: the bat- 
Ap tie to remain a member in the 
^ HfMISL.
:wy: Edward J. DeBartolo, the
shopping mall magnate who owns both the 
Penguins and the Spirit, had threatened to 
move and/or fold both teams if the City of 
Pittsburgh did not, by May 1, help stem the 
tide of red ink threatening to engulf the 
arena. But the deadline was eventually ex­
tended to July 25th, negotiations with Mayor 
Caliguri brought financial relief, and an in­
tensive marketing campaign (including a 
Telethon featuring the showing of Animal 
House) provided impressive advance sale 
ticket figures for both teams.
So the Spirit’s future in Pittsbugh was 
assured, at least temporarily. But the team 
had only 12 out of a squad of 20 players left, 
and was without a coach. Noted General 
Manager Chris Wright, “We had been delay­
ing any personnel moves until after the 
deadline, but once the 25th came around, 
we moved quickly.”
Ironically, it was the death of another 
franchise that gave Pittsburgh the talent it 
needed. On July 17, the MISL removed from 
the league the Las Vegas Americans (Ex 
Memphis, nee Hartford Hellions). Pitt­
sburgh picked up six needed players and 
Popovic, who had captured the first four 
MISL titles as head of the New York Arrows.
Included in the group of players from Las 
Vegas are several standouts. Most notable 
among the group is Helmut Dudek, a four 
time MISL all-star, who was among the 
highest scoring defenders in the league last 
year. Also acquired was Fred Grgurev, who 
lead Las Vegas in scoring last year with 48 
always give 100%. “I will not promise a 
championship, but I will promise the most 
exciting soccer Pittsburgh has ever seen.” 
rom last year have worked together very 
well,” noted Coach Popovic.
Popovic was another important catch for 
he Spirit. He captured four league titles 
»vith the Arrows, and guided Las Vegas into 
he quarterfinals last year. He has a very ac- 
ivest philosophy, insisting that players 
always give 100% “I will not promise a cham- 
ionship, but I will promise the most ex­
iting soccer Pittsburgh has ever seen.”
h a pers°r 
Hair des'9n™<! difference 
,0U£i°r*na,Y
Haircuts *14 to *16
Lewis’
Mon.-Fd.9to9 Sat. 9 to S
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
___ 682-4063
iflhAii
PITTSBURGH
PITTSBURGH
SPIRIT
IM Report
There will be a special IM Soccer Rules 
Clinic on Tuesday October 29, at 4:30 pm 
in the Blue Room in the main Gym 
building. Each team must be represented at 
this important meeting. Last call for Soc­
cer sign-ups is Wednesday October 30.
Last call for IM Bowling and Racquet- 
ball sign-ups. For Bowling, contact Commis­
sioner Vince Garozza at 687-8940. Racquet - 
ball players call Commissioner Rob 
Schlackman at 683-3739.
Beta B is holding first as of Oct. 24 in the 
IM Football Majors standings.
The IM Water-polo standings show 
Theta-Xi holding first, followed by 
Hydrophobics and a tie for third between 
DTD and Phi Kap. Co-rec Volleyball is held 
in a three-way tie involving Theta-Xi-A, 
Chesga, and the Dudes and the Dudesses.
IM Football and Tennis players should 
check the Bulletin Board outside Gym 
Room 101 for their playoff schedule.
Sports coming up are Three-Person 
Volleyball and Backgammon. Team 
volleyball begins, under first woman com­
missioner, Dee Nyzio on November first. 
The next IM meeting will be Thursday 
November 7th, at 12:30 pm in Room 101.
PICKUP 
A PARTY
Ssrsa.
THIS BUD S 
FOR YOU.
»«IMON. MC «wr UM>

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—October 29, 1985
Women's Health Services.
Gyn Check-Ups
AfrorUon Services
We are 
winning.
AMERICAN
Free Pregnancy Tests
Confidential
Counseling
DEBRA ABELL Kurudermatologist
• student discount available 
•easily accessible b\ bus from CM I
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard. Visa accepted 
( '.all apixMntmeiii
Attention Freshman
B'nai Brith Hillel 
invites you to
"LET’S GET AQUANTED 
SHABBAT SPECIAL
services, dinner, and oneg
November 1, 1985 
Free To Freshman new to Hillel
315 S. Bellefield Ave. 621-8875 
Reservations a must!
photo by Andy Gillespie
Sophomore Christine Coleman digs out the ball in a CMU match-up against W8cJ. 
They came out victorious with a score of 3-2. their season continues with a double 
match Wednesday against JCU and Carlow.
Sophomore Alan Mayr in action against WScJ. They eventually won the game 4-0. Their 
new record stands at 10-4, 4-1 in the conference. They close out their season on Satur­
day against Robert Morris.
This Week in
October 30
Soccer away game at University of 
Pittsburgh
Women’s Volleyball home game 
against John Carroll Universi­
ty/Carlow College
Tartan Sports
November 2 
Soccer home game against Robert 
Morris College
Mens 8c Women’s Cross Country
meet away at Grove City for the 
PAC Championships
Women’s Volleyball away game 
at Hiram College
United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania
200 Ross Street, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15219
Dr. Richard J. Hoffman 
Orthodontist
461-0259 
683-1210
Special Consideration 
Suite 552 
Medical Arts Building 
5th and Atwood 
Oakland
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 
(412) 687-1112
More people have survived 
cancer than now live in the 
City of Los Angeles.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University 
presents the
1985 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
"Competing in the New Global Environment" 
delivered by John A. Young
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Hewlett-Packard Company
Thursday, November 14, 1985 
5:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the Public Relations Office 
5017 Forbes Avenue
IS YOUR WAISTLINE 
A WASTELAND?
The Caber Club's New Nautilus Abdominal 
Machine can help you bring it back in line. Come 
see our complete circuit of exercise machines and 
take advantage of our pre-holiday special only.
$45 for six weeks
Stop in or call X8876 for a free workout
The Caber Club—CMU's Fitness Facility
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ “THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
“THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED'
Great Styles Start at... suAPPOINTMENTNECESSARYNKLtocfXFfomwnsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
COLORPERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Why not a 24 
hour University?
Camegie-Mellon University is an 18-hour 
day school with 24-hour day students.
The all-nighter is a reality at Camegie- 
Mellon—students staying up all hours of the 
night to study or perform other extra­
curricular activities. Yet there is no public study 
area open past 2:00 a.m. And if you have a 
serious problem that you need counseling for, 
it had better be before 5:00 p.m., the hour that 
the Counseling Center closes.
Why is it that Morewood Gardens study 
room closes at 2:00 a.m.? There is a desk at­
tendant monitoring the only entrance until 
8:00 a.m. So why is this room closed from 
2:00-8:00 a.m.? There is no logical reason. The 
terminal room is open 24 hours right next door, 
so why does the reading room close?
There is one logical reason why we do not 
have a 24-hour library. It is unsafe for students 
to walk from the library back to their dorm 
room alone at 5:00 a.m. But dormitory based 
24-hour study rooms should be provided.
Dr. Lorrie Rabin and her staff do a wonder­
ful job with the resources they have been pro­
vided at the Counseling Center. But they are 
understaffed and thier budget is too low.
In wake of the recent and past suicides at 
Camegie-Mellon, a hot-line of some sort should 
be provided. These are realities and should be 
dealt with, not hidden. Today, if you call 
Counseling Center after 5:00 p.m., you will 
hear a recording telling you to call back tomor­
row or if you need emergency transportation 
to call security. What if you were realy depress­
ed and needed someone to talk to at 3:00 a.m., 
and no one else was awake. At a university as 
pressure-packed as this, this service should be 
provided.
Security is available for 24 hours a day, and 
they do their jobs very well. But the dispatcher 
is not qualified to give advice to a highly- 
depressed student. It is not that we at The Tar­
tan believe that a counseling hot-line would 
stop suicides and depression at Camegie- 
Mellon University. But if a hot-line service saves 
just one 19-year old life, isn’t it worth the effort?
PSAC
The President’s Student Advisory 
Council (PSAC) is a committee that 
meets monthly with Dr. Cyert to ask 
his views on campus issues and give 
him the student’s view. But the 
members are but a small minority 
representing the students. If you have 
something you would like to ask and 
can’t do it yourself, send it to: 
Chris Lewis—PSAC 
The Tartan 
Ski bo 103 
and he will bring it up at the next 
meeting.
H&SS has shortcomings
by Myles Greenberg 
At a recent Student Senate 
Meeting, several people were quite 
vocal in their criticism of the 
quality and quantity of H&SS 
couses as well as the lack of respect 
mmmmx* accorded the H&SS. y'Jfr college within the 
CMU community, as
11 well as it’s reputation 
compared to other colleges and 
universities. These legitimate con­
cerns ranged from grad students 
teaching courses to the general 
reputation of H&SS. These com­
plaints described the major short­
coming of this university.
As I look around me I see the 
administration doing its best to 
improve the technological 
facilities on campus and to bring 
new contracts for research in 
engineering and computer science 
to CMU. Part of the basis for this 
is to maintain the reputation in 
the field of technology. This is cer­
tainly a worthwhile endeavor. 
However, the mark of top-notch 
universities (i.e. the Ivy League 
schools) is the all-around quality 
of their academic programs. Cer­
tainly most schools have their 
specialties, but the highest quali­
ty areas for any student who
desires it.
This is where CMU is fun­
damentally lacking. If we wish to 
attain the stature fo a truly 
superior university, and not just 
an institute of technology, then 
more resources must be allocated 
to improve CMU’s liberal arts cur­
ricula (specificaly H&SS). For ex­
ample, the use of graduate 
students to teach courses (not just 
recitations) is intolerable in a good 
institution of higher learning. It 
is certainly not what we are pay­
ing $14,000 a year for. There were 
also several times complaints 
about the variety and frequenct 
with which (and sometimes the 
quality of) the courses offered. 
CMU should make the effort to 
seek out and hire enough good 
professors to teach a good variety 
of solid humanities and social 
science courses. This is especially 
true if we expect to attract the 
best students to our liberal arts 
program.
I realize that students who 
come to CMU have made the pro­
fessional choice. However, out in 
the real world the ability to write 
and speak effectively, as well as 
being generaly well read and in-
formed in order to make day to 
day decisions are requisite for ad­
vancing in any career, be it 
engineering or journalism. 
Therefore, H&SS courses can do 
just as much, if not more, than 
certain technical courses in 
preparing, for example, an 
engineer for a successful career. A 
good liberal arts program to draw 
from is not only essential to career 
training, though. Many students 
enjoy taking courses in the 
humanities, social studies, or the 
arts simply out of interest in the 
subject or maybe to break up the 
monotony of their chosen fields. 
College is the place to explore and 
learn about those interests.
I applaud the initiative of 
those, including the administra­
tion and faculty, who sought to 
begin improving the liberal arts 
education of university students in 
the form of the core curriculum. 
Even though it is debatable 
whether or not a core curiculum 
is an improvement, the necessity 
for improvement in ¿he quality of 
our liberal arts program in 
general is not
Myles Greenberg is a freshman in 
H&SS and is a student senetor.
School must deal with AIDS
by Michael Bett 
Every few weeks the President’s 
Student Advisory Committee 
meets to discuss current plans for 
the university and any problems 
which students may be having.
At the last PSAC 
meeting a seemingly 
unusual topic came 
up: AIDS. The
disease that has sent a wave of 
panic throughout the nation, has 
finally found its way to 
Carnegie-Mellon.
Currently Camegie-Mellon 
does not have an official policy on
AIDS. Should students with AIDS 
be admitted? If a student or 
employee of the university con­
tracts AIDS, should they be re­
quired to leave the universtiy?
Much of the problem of what 
to do stems from our ignorance 
about the disease. It is thought 
that AIDS can only be transmit­
ted through a blood transfusion or 
through semen. However, the 
AIDS virus has been found in 
tears and saliva. Although scien­
tists tell us that the virus is pro­
bably not transmitted through 
either tears or saliva, they have
not ruled out the possibility.
Consider how you would feel if 
you knew one of the food handlers 
had AIDS or your roommate had 
AIDS or one of your professors 
did. Alternatively consider the 
possibility that you’re a drama 
major with AIDS and in one scene 
you have to kiss another student. 
Can you take responsibility far; 
what may happen?
In order to decide what should 
be done about AIDS, students, 
and staff, a committee is forming 
which will formally decide a 
continued on page 23

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 23
*
Bett continued
continued from page 22
policy for dealing with AIDS. The policy will 
include everything from should blood tests 
be required before admission or hiring to 
what to do if a student or staff member 
comes down with AIDS.
How can you help? What we really need 
is the student’s viewpoint. Should the policy 
be leniant, allowing persons with AIDS to 
enter and remain within the university com­
munity. Or should the policy take a much 
harsher view that anyone with AIDS is a risk 
to the other members of the university com­
munity, and should be asked to leave.
Personally, unitl more is known about the 
disease, I favor the latter view. A harsher 
policy will be unfair to some, but it will help 
to contain the disease and protect the ma­
jority who are unaffected.
If you care to share your views, stop by the 
Senate meeting tonight at 7:00 pm in the 
Wherrett Room.
Michael Bett is a senior (regardless of what 
the C book says) majoring in Mathematics 
and is Chairman of Student Senate.
Disoriented feelings historical
by Jim Miller
The war was over. One of the heroes of 
that conflict began a homeward journey ac­
companied by a small band of fellow 
soldiers. That journey became an adventure 
filled with temptations, danger and betrayal, 
but also insight, loyalty and growth. At 
journeys end our hero returned to a home 
much different from the one he had left, one 
that he ultimately had to reclaim by force.
You undoubtedly recognize the story. It is 
that of Odysseus. And through the writings 
of Homer the name of Odysseus has become 
synonymous with journeys into the unknown 
which are nevertheless journeys in search of 
home. Why should home be so hard to find?
Thomas Wolfe has written that you can 
never go home again. There is truth in that. 
What Odysseus returned to was not the 
home he had left.
Those of us who have left home to come 
to engage in the academic battles of CMU 
have probably experienced some of the 
disorientation our Greek hero felt when we 
made our first trip home. Things were not
the same. And with every subsequent cycle 
of trips to CMU and then “back home” the 
difference has probably become more and 
more pronounced.
For Odysseus this change was a cause for 
conflict. And it may be the same for some 
of us. But not necessarily so. To journey away 
from home and then return is sometimes an 
occasion for insight. We learn something 
about ourselves in the process and with a 
changed perspective come to see our home 
differently. Perhaps this is what T.S. Elliot 
meant when he wrote that “We shall not 
cease from exploration and the end of our 
exploring will be to arrive where we started 
and know the place for the first time.” This 
notion is also central to the plot of the very 
popular film, “Back to the Future.”
What you are reading at the moment is 
the first of a series of columns which will ap­
pear under the heading, “Odyssey.” These 
will be columns about journeys. Journeys 
among the various academic fiefdoms which 
comprise the CMU geography. Journeys 
among the several species (students, ad­
ministrators, faculty, staff) which make up 
the CMU educational ecology.
Journeys outward into the social, political 
and economic domains within which CMU 
lives and moves and has its being. Journeys 
„ into the far reaches of the imagination where 
dreams and hopes and fantasies and even 
fears give shapes to our visions of ourselves 
and our academic home, Camegie-Mellon 
University.
Hopefully, these journeys will stimulate 
thought and conversation about our present 
common life and its future possibilities. To 
that end I would invite any and all who have 
ideas for particular journey destinations 
(column topics) to let me know what they 
are. You can send your ideas to: Jim Miller, 
Odyssey, Hunt Library or by computer mail 
to JM4W@TA.
Jim Miller is a staff person for United Cam­
pus Ministries of Pittsburgh, an ecumenical 
campus ministry representing seven Protes­
tant denominations. He is a Presbyterian 
minister and a member of the CMU Cam­
pus Ministry Council.Grad student points out CMU benefits
by Stephen T. Kraus
Before you prepare your transfer papers 
to escape what surely must be “hell on earth,” 
in some people’s opinion, I would ask you 
to consider a few insights from someone who 
survived this place, and was impressed 
enough to return. I graduated in 
1981 with a BSEE/ECON, and 
; I have just returned to pursue 
imy MBA at GSIA. Yes, I’ve been 
out there in the cold, cruel world... I would 
like to share with you some insights I gain­
ed while I was “out there” concerning the 
educational process here at CMU, and which 
might be of some use to you.
Specifically, I will address the educational 
process of CMU in three parts. First, I will 
try to examine the educational process here 
from the employer’s point of view. Second­
ly, I will try to address two criticisms often 
leveled against the educational process here: 
There's too much work. Students should 
have more time to develope their personal 
philosophies and goals in life, discuss impor­
tant issues, and gain more depth in the 
courses.
This is the “best time of a student’s life.”
> He or she should have more time to enjoy 
it. After all, once a student has graduated
¦ and moved on to job, and marriage, etc.,
| things will never be like this again.
In examining the employer’s point of view,
I would like to begin with a few words of en­
couragement. Believe it or not, you are cur­
rently attending one of the best universities 
in the country. I didn’t totally believe this 
myself, until I got out into the real world.
I obtained two engineering jobs while I was 
out there”, and in both cases I can une­
quivocally state that I got them because I 
! came from CMU. To be honest, in both cases 
I didn’t have the level of experience my 
employers were looking for. In both cases,
I was explicity told that my degree from 
CMU threw the decision in my favor. I’m not 
talking about looking for jobs in Pittsburgh, 
either, or even the North East; my stomp- 
: mg ground was Houston, Texas.
Why were these people impressed with 
[ CMU graduates? What is so outstanding 
I about the education here? Although I have 
¡had extensive exposure to several of the 
schools here (business, psychology, 
philosophy, and economics), I will limit 
| myself to engineering. Although there are 
i many fine (and not-so-fine) aspects to the 
engmeering education you receive here, two 
[ seem to stand out in the minds of the 
employers I dealt with:
CMU engineers are problem-solvers. 
ey can approach problems which they
have never dealt with before in a logical 
manner, and solve them. Believe it or not, 
many of the graduates from “better” schools 
(MIT comes to mind) have stronger 
theoretical bases, but when it comes to solv­
ing real world problems, they often aren’t as 
effective as CMU graduates are.
CMU engineers know how to work hard. 
I’m not talking about “nerds”, either. I’m 
talking about people who can work in a 
team atmosphere to achieve tough goals. 
People who will make a contribution to both 
the project and the intellectual and social 
environment of the workplace.
Given these observations, let us reexamine 
the education you receive here. Regardless 
of your field of study, I would submit that 
most of you want an education that will be 
respected by both people in your field and! 
society at large. You want an education 
which will open doors for you, and which
philosophies, and so forth? Obviously, these> 
things are important. But, take a close look 
at any philosophies you hold dear now... 
They were built through experiences, not 
through some sort of Socratic “thought ex­
periment.” Believe it or not, as you work 
hard for your degree here, you are experien­
cing things which will directly shape 
your philosophies. Secondly, I think you will 
find that your philosophies will continue to 
grow and change once you leave here. I am 
not saying that you shouldn’t seek new ex­
periences at CMU: please seek them and ex­
perience them. Just realize that your time 
at CMU is not your last chance, nor even 
your best chance, to form your per­
sonal philosophy. It could be your last 
chance, however, to obtain the kind of train­
ing you will gain through your studies here. 
Apply yourself to them wholeheartedly, and 
you will reap the rewards.
fust realize that your time at CMU is not 
your last chance.. .to form your philosophy
will help you to be successful in your field.
I can tell you from personal experience that 
the hard work you are doing now will result 
in just such an education.
Clearly there will be those who disagree 
with me. Most often,these people will raise 
the two arguments I mentioned at the begin­
ning of this letter: there is too much work, 
and conversely, that students should have 
more time for other things (intellectual 
discussions, philosophy-building, enjoyment 
of life, etc.). I would like to address these 
two criticisms in light of what we have 
discussed so far.
Is there “too much work”? Anyone would 
agree that there is a lot of homework at 
CMU. But is there “too much”? Your future 
employers don’t seem to think so They seem 
to value the amount of work you’ve done 
here. But shouldn’t you be gaining more 
depth in the courses here? Surprisingly 
enough, once you’ve moved on to either 
graduate school or the job market, “depth” 
isn’t what’s required. Being able to work 
hard, absorb quickly, and apply correctly 
totally new material is what is valuable. I’m 
sure many of you have heard the old adage, 
“I didn’t use anything I learned here when 
I got on the job.” It would be more accurate 
to say “I didn’t use most of the course 
materials I learned here, but I did use the 
techniques of thinking and problem-solving
I learned through all of the work I did here.” 
But what about the building of personal
But isn’t this the “best time” of your life? 
Shouldn’t you have more time to enjoy it? 
Everyone would agree that you should en­
joy your time here. But, don’t forget the 
main reason you are here: to get an educa­
tion. Whether you are here through the 
kindness of your parents, or the federal 
government, you owe it to them and you owe 
it to yourself to do the very best you can. It’s 
very true that the pressures don’t end when 
you graduate from here; the real world has 
plenty of pressures to pile on top of you. But, 
to be honest, they really are not as constant 
as they are here. I can honestly tell you that 
the pressures of being a graduate student at
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
GSIA exceeds anything I experienced when 
I was working. However, when you realize 
that the pressure it part of the value of the 
education here, and that its part of what will 
keep you employed once you get out of here, 
it may seem a little more tolerable.
I must also feel some sadness for anyone 
who feels that “it’s all downhill from here”... 
If you asked me what the best time of my 
life has been, it would be now. Sure, I had 
a good time in college, but the challenges 
of being in graduate school, being a hus­
band, and (soon) being a father bring me 
even greater chances for excitement and 
growth. I’ll be honest with you. I’ve met 
many people who look back on the past and 
sigh. I would encourage each one of you to 
always try to look forward to the future for 
your “best times”. Your education here can 
contribute to all of those “best times” in the 
future, if you are willing to put a large 
enough part of yourself into your work here 
at CMU.
Stephen Kraus is a graduate student in GSIA 
and has a B.S. in Electric Engineering/Eco- 
nomics from Camegie-Mellon.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor...........Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ...Anthony Datri
Features Editor.....Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor ...............Michele Keane
Art Manager..................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager ....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
ACME Director ..............Vijay Reddy
Asst. Art Manager.........Mark Kissner
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, Camegie- 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Hillel presents a
Come dance the time away 
to the music of 
• yesterday and today
(C®m® H))a*®ss®dl 
sis jdMBir ffsryawrfU® ©irsi
Sunday, November 3rd 
7:00pm
Morrison's Lounge 
(under sororities)
Members:
In Costume $1.00 
Not in Costume $2.00 
Non Members:
In Costume $3.50 
Not in Costume $4.00
3t the
bocMsfeoire
*friz.es from ihc Grodcb
l^-pHxe '.Most onq/nal COsbumo;Portable S m. _ 
~ f ^ biacK mid^nibe TV
Z-pnz&: runniest:. Costume; Magnat* Telephone
*2* - , *r~) 1 i , < ClocK V clcilÜ- ^
^ pnze, rr6~wcsb Costume;Hagnav<3x T<r.l ephohe>
C bd\ rad/o,
Stop in cit lb6 booK store 3unc|tihn6 
between 0 !oo a.ncl 4-JJ5 ön
rhursdatj 1 Öd, 31
.Judging aV 4”30
T)onb forget-1! j\^\\ a,boa-i> a tt-ea^ -for
6v&r^örie in costume.
CA\U Siudent5 only )
Increase your
ft— watk4n tutoring program 
•och wMkSunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
Calculus PH - 126A
Pre I, I. M
Physics PH -1268
Chemistry PH - 2256
EngRsh as a BH - 1356
second language
Economics PH - 2266
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH-226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 2356
UNISOFT CORPORATION
UniSoft Systems of Berkeley, California will be on campus 
Nov. 7 & 8, 1985 and will be recruiting for the following:
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS: Responsible for porting UNIX 
operating system and utilities to various leading-edge hard­
ware architecture. Must be knowledgable in “C” UNIX AND 
KERNEL.
PROGRAMMERS: At least two years with the C programm­
ing language and the UNIX programming environment. Must 
be knowledgeable in “C” and UNIX.
PRODUCT ENGINEERS: Responsible for technical aspects 
of third-party software running under UniPlus operating 
systems. Must have strong compiler backround with 
knowledge of “C”, Fortran, Pascal, Basic and COBOL. UNIX 
experience is a must.
TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALISTS: Primary interface to 
UniSoft OEM’s. Researching OEM questions, investigating 
third-party product problems, offer technical in-house support, 
special projects, distribution.. Must be knowledgeable in “C” 
and UNIX.
Unisoft offers compensation and benefits in a stimulating and 
challenging environment. If you feel qualified to be on our 
team, please see us on campus Nov. 7&8,1985, in the Career 
Services and Placement. Or send your resume to the below 
address.
Sharon Hill 
UniSoft Corporation 
739 Allston Way 
Berkeley, Ca 94710 
ucbvaxlunisoftlsharon
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

---------------------------------------------------

SDC Presents:
Steven Jobs Formerly of Apple Computers 
Entrepreneurship
in the
Information Age
October 30,19854 PM
StudentDorrmtor}’Council
Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

I
This year,
some of our graduates 
will be remembered 
under the following 
yearbook heading...
- • - ' * '
Those Not Pictured
Seniors! Here’s your LAST CHANCE 
to have your senior portraits taken for 
1986 Thistle Yearbook. Our senior 
photographers, Strem-Varden 
studios, have returned for this week 
only, so sign up today in Skibo Gray 
Matter to reserve your sitting time.
*
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements Classifieds
Short Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
invited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
Story Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
University. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
prize and publication in Toyon ’86, Humboldt’s 
literary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
unpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
double-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
manuscript should be sent with the author’s 
name, address and title of the story, typed on a 
cover sheet. Writers should also include two self- 
addressd, stamped envelopes for notification of 
receipt of manuscript and announcement of win­
ners and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
returned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
Carver Short Story is Charles Baxter, author and 
recipient of a National Endowment for the Arts 
(NEA) Grant and a Guggenheim Fellowship. The 
entry deadline is December 1, 1985. Entry fee is 
$5 payable to the Raymond Carver Short Story 
Contest. All entries should be mailed to Carver 
Contest, c/o Department of English, Humboldt 
State University, Areata, CA 95521. For more in­
formation call (707) 826-3758.
Carnegie-Mellon Drama Department Needs
You! Usher twice and you can see the play free. 
The plays are Odon Von Horvath’s Tales from 
the Vienna Woods on November 6, 7, 8, 9, 20, 
21, 22, 23 and George Feydeau’s One Acts on 
November 13, 14, 15, 16 and December 4, 5, 6, 
7. For more information call 578-2407.
An Evening with Windham Hill, featuring Liz 
Story, Michael Hedges, Darol Anger and Mike 
Marshall. Presented by ABConcerts and partially 
funded by student activity fees. Thursday, 
November 14, Carnegie Music Hall, 7:30 pm. Ad­
mission $5 for students with valid CMU ID.
Needed: Teachers for Jewish religious schools!
Subjects: Hebrew language, religion, history, 
customs and ceremonies, music, dance, drama, 
etc. For further information call: Dr. Ronald A. 
Brauner, Director, The Hebrew Institute, 
521-1100.
Opportunity knocks for writer with PR instincts 
and/or politician with writing skills. County in­
ternship program looking for task-oriented in­
trovert/imaginative extrovert or some appropriate 
combination thereof. Flexible hours—guaranteed 
portfolio. Inquire: Karen Gray, Tartan News 
Editor.
Pittsburgh Guitars— We buy, sell, & trade us­
ed and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, 
across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4733.
Presentations and Discussion on Inclusive 
Language: “It Matters What You Call It.” Sat. 
Nov. 2, 1-5 pm. Focus on God, the Church and 
Women. Cost $5. Call 682-6886 by Oct. 30 to pre­
register. Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes.
Ruth’s Pathway for the Contemporary 
Woman—Bible study on Crisis & Opportunity. 
Wed. in Nov. 12-12:30 pm, Doherty Hall 2122. 
Run by Lutheran Campus Ministry.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, P.O. Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Student Activists—Do you have political savvy? 
Are you concerned with the issues that affect the 
quality of life? Get involved with the CLEAN 
WATER ACTION PROJECT, the National 
Citizens’ lobby working on Toxic Waste and Water 
Quality. EOE Call now: 765-3053.
Word Processing/Typing Services: Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon./Fri. $1 per page.
Perfect two-bedroom apartment.A two
bedroom apartment located close to campus in 
Shadyside. Apartment is very clean and can come 
with furniture. One month’s free rent will be given 
if rented this week. If interested, please call Glenn 
(824-9297). Leave name and number if I’m 
not in.
Group leaders wanted for Jewish Youth Oiganiza- 
tion. Good pay—convient hours. Contact 
521-4877 or 521-7025.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND MX Cppl 1 o -pi POI 1CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CONTACT HAL ^liOLClldllCU U.O
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 P.M.
$60.00 per hundred paid for remailing letters 
from home! Send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope for information/application. Assocates, 
Box 95-B, Rosell, NJ 07203.
Party supplies for birthdays, weddings, luaus, 
X-mas parties, New Year’s parties and much, 
much more. Yes, we even have eyeglasses for your 
hamster and knuckleman. . . Papermart, 
Morewood Ave. and Baum Blvd. 681-8900. It’s 
a nice walk from campus. Decorations, invita­
tions, novelties and fun!
Parties, Parties, Parties: We have everything for 
your party at Papermart. . .Over 10,000 square 
feet of fun in our Party Supermarket. Baum Blvd. 
at Morewood Ave. 681-8900. . .Stroll down 
Morewood to world of fun.
Programmer to write natural language parser in 
C for CAI project. Call Lori L. at 624-5900..
President to have open office hours for students.
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours for 
students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in his office, 
602 Warner Hall on Friday, November 8 and 
Monday, December 2. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his secretary, 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Reminder. Registration is on Wednesday, 
November 13 and Thursday, November 14.
Reminder. Tuesday, October 29th is the last day 
to drop a course in CIT, MCS, H&SS, and IM.
Reminder: Scotland Yard Grand Opening 
November 15th and 16th. Come take a look at 
the new student night club.
Auditions: Scotland Yard is having a second 
round of open auditions. Just come down to the 
Wherrett Room on November 10th between 2 
and 6 pm. For more information; call x4821.
Events29
Tuesday
Movies
Rebel Without a Cause, starring 
James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo. A troubl­
ed teen rebels against his middle-class environ­
ment. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundred- 
year-old Chinese exercises. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm.
Clubs
Pittsburgh Go Group. Go is an ancient orien­
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room, 
> pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Thessalonica: 23 Years of Greek History and 
Civilization. A slide lecture presented by Mr. 
t vanghelos Kofos, a specialist in Macedonian 
history of Greece’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Sponsored by the Greek Orthodox Diocese of Pitt­
sburgh. University of Pittsburgh’s St. Nicholas 
Cathedral Community Hall, 7:30 pm. Admission 
is free and open to the public.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 3 for details.
Last Day to Drop a Course in CIT, MCS, H&SS,and IM.
Families in Transition. A workshop for students 
whose parents are separated or divorced. A 
workshop presented by the Counseling Center. 
From 3:30 pm to 5 pm. For more information 
and registration, call x2922 or sign up at E 
Tower, Morewood Gardens 103.30
Wednesday
Movies
The Best of Warner Brothers 
Cartoons — Part II, starring Bugs Bunny, Porky 
Pig, and Daffy Duck. 16 cartoons in all. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Music
Senior Recital. Peter Rubins plays the horn. 
Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Sports
Soccer away game against University of Pitt­
sburgh at 7:30 pm.
Women’s Volleyball home games against John 
Carroll & Carlow college at 6 pm.
Recreation
La Table Française, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Clubs
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 pm. Everyone welcome.
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Halloween Happy Hour sponsored by Profes­
sional Women on Campus. Wine, punch, and 
hors d’oeurves will be served. Skibo Faculty 
Lounge, 5 pm to 6:30 pm. Admission is $2 for 
non-members and free for members. If you plan 
to attend, please call Marcy Zaragoza at x8818. 
For information about becoming a member, con­
tact Andrea McDivett at x2996, or Marcy 
Zaragoza at x8818.
Lectures
Entrepreneurship in the Information Age, 
presented by Steven Jobs, formerly of Apple Com­
puters. Sponsored by the SDC. Skibo Ballroom, 
4 pm.
Strategic Defense Initiative Talk, presented by 
Major Simon Worden, Assistant to the Director 
of the SDI, and Joseph I. Coffey, Professor of In­
ternational Security at the University of Pitt­
sburgh. Sponsored by David Demarest and Tela 
Zasloff from CMU’s Department of English.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 3 for details.
Undergraduate Biomedical Engineering 
Meeting. The Biomedical Engineering Program 
is conducting an undergraduate biomedical 
engineering meeting to discuss Spring registra­
tion. If you are in the Bioengineering option, 
please try to attend. Doherty Hall 2302 B, 4:30 
pm.
31
Thursday
Movies
Dawn of the Dead, starring David 
Emge, Ken Foree, Gaylen Ross, William L'*ech, 
Marty Schiff, and the City of Pittsburgh. In this 
sequel to Night of the Living Dead, the dead 
again feed off the living. Filmed in Pittsburgh 
with a wild sequence in the Monroeville Mall. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Rosemary’s Baby. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm,
11 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater, by Christopher 
Durang. A humorous look at parenthood. City 
Theater Company, South Bouquet St. in 
Oakland, 8 pm. For more information call 
624-4101.
Dance
Don Quixote. See Saturday, November 2 for 
more information.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundred- 
year-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Investment Club. Leam how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Explorer’s Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12, 
8pm. Beginners welcome.
Community Events
Managing Stress. Leam how to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5 pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 3 for details.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28—The Tartan—October 29, 1985
Study Smarter. Learn how to study more effec­
tively with a variety of techniques. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5 pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
“1 Friday
; Movies
JL Ghostbusters, starring Bill Mur­
ray, Harold Ramis, Sigourney Weaver. A com­
edy thriller about getting rid of Poltergeists in 
New York City. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
A Passage to India. Doherty 210,. 6 pm. 9 pm, 
12 pm. Admission $1.
The Servant. A Joseph Losey Director Series. 
Carnegie Institute’s Museum of Art Theater, 8 
pm. Admission $2.50.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc­
tober 10 for details.
Music
Halloween Bands: the Prime Movers from 
Boston, the Wild Seeds from Austin and the 
Cynics are playing at the Graffitti.
Dance
Don Quixote. See Saturday, November 2 for 
more information.
Sports
Men’s Cross Country away PAC Championships 
at Grove City.
Women’s Cross Country away PAC Champion­
ships at Grove City.
Lectures
Science and Religion: Converging Paths in a 
Post-Modern Culture, presented by Dr. Robert 
John Russell, Executive Director of the Center 
for Theology and the Natural Sciences at the 
Graduate Theological Union of Berkely, CA. An 
Odyssey Lecture sponsored by the United Cam­
pus Ministry of Pittsburgh through a grant from 
Pittsburgh Presbytery. Skibo Wherrett room, 
4:30 pm to 5:30 pm.
Studies of the Mental Abacus, presented by Dr. 
James Stigler from the University of Chicago. 
Sponsored by the Department of Psychology Col­
loquium Series — Chase Memorial Lecture. 
Baker Hall’s Adamson Wing, 3:30 pm.
2
Saturday
Movies
St. Elmo’s Fire, starring Ally 
Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Andrew McCarthy. A 
bunch of college graduates hang around together 
a year after school. Rated R. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. Admission $2.95.
Woman in Red. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater.See Thursday, Oc­
tober 31 for more information. Show times are 
now 2 pm and 7 pm.
Dance
Don Quixote. Originally produced for the 
Bolshoi in 1900, this is the first time in Pitt­
sburgh. Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Heinz Hall. 
For more information call 281-5000.
Sports
Soccer home game against Robert Morris Col­
lege at 1 pm.
Eat the best for less!
Welcome to Bertos Family Restaurant . . . We offer a wide variety of items for your selection so to satisfy any type of appetite ... all at an affordable price.
4910 BAUM BDT)., PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
Most dinners under $5.00!
For the month of November, bring your family and 
friends and enjoy this special discount: 15% off any 
price or $1.00 of any entree with CMU ID.
SANDWICH SPECIALS
TROJAN SANDWICH 3.25
Thinly sliced beef atop stick bread 
beneath melted feta and provolone 
cheese, tomato and onion . . . fin­
ished with our special dressing
GRILLED REUBEN 3 25
Sliced turkey and corned beef topped 
with Swiss cheese and sauerkraut
. . . all piled on rye bread with ko­
sher dill
GRECIAN SPECIALS
BROILED BEEF OR LAMB KEBAN5.25
your choice of meats served on a 
skewer with chunks of vegetables, in­
cludes rice pilaf and a small Greek 
salad
STEAK SALONKA 4.95
A tender steak prepared in a tradi­
tional Greek style, with rice pilaf and 
a small Greek salad
682-6650
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Women’s Volleyball away game against Hiram 
College at 1 pm.
Recreation
Amateur Radio Novice Classes. A class in In­
ternational Morse Code instruction and testing. 
A Novice Class Amateur Radio License will be 
awarded to those who attend the Saturday and 
Sunday class and pass the FCC test administered 
this weekend. Contact Mike Chepponis at 
Robotics, Wean Hall 5307, or send mail to Chep­
ponis at cmu-cs-a to pre-register. A fee of $5 
covers the cost of the FCC Rules manual. Spon­
sored by the Amateur Radio Club. Wean Hall 
5409. 10 am to 6 pm.
Community Event 
Freshman Parents Day.
3
Sunday
Movies
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as 
a second language in Baker Hall 135 B; 
Economics in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to 
Computing in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Ac­
counting in Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing 
Problems in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm. to 10 pm.
Admissions Sleeping Bag Weekend for
CIT/MCS.
4
Monday
Movies
Sergeant York, starring Gary 
Cooper, Walter Brennan, Joan Leslie. An Oscar 
performance from Cooper as a pacifist who is 
drafted into the army during WWI. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Music from the Festival of India Series. The
Indian Violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman will play. In 
1980 he gave concerts at the Traditional Violin 
Festival arranged by Radio Cologne, Radio 
Belgium, and Radio France. He has recorded ex­
tensively for EMI Records. The assisting artists 
are Vellore Ramabhadram, mridangam, and 
G.R. Krishnam, violin, son of Lalgudi 
Jayaraman. This concert will be recorded for 
future broadcast by WQED-FM (89.3). Synod 
Hall in Oakland, 6:30 pm. Tickets are available 
at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt 
union Ticket Office (624-4882), Asian Studies 
Program (624-1217), the Department of Music 
(624-4126), and at the door at the night of the 
concert. Open seating: Floor, $8; Balcony, $4.
Dance
Don Quixote. See Saturday, November 2 for 
more information.
Recreation
Amateur Radio Novice Classes. A class in Rules 
and Theory instruction and testing. See Satur­
day, November 2 for more information.
Clubs
The Northeast Panhellenic Conference, hosted 
by CMU. Breakfast and lunch will be provided. 
Mellon Institute Auditorium, 9 am to 5 pm. All 
sorority members, faculty, and administrators are 
invited to attend. For more information call 
Chrissy DeLoughery (Chi Omega) at x5952.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counseling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus, Pre, I, II, III 
in Porter Hall 126A; Physics in Porter Hall 126
i Richard II, directed Laurence 
Olivier and starring Laurence Olivier, John 
Gielgud, Ralph Richardson, Claire Bloom. A 
film version of Shakespeare’s play about a mad 
English king and the many intrigues in his court. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Recreation
Fall 1985 Spring Carnival Meetings. Have a 
representative from your organization at each 
meeting if you plan on being a part of Carnival 
’86. Skibo 12, 7 pm.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
October 27 for details.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief ] 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy j 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it j 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for j 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other- j 
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday j 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have an^l 
comments or suggestions, send them to any oj the | 
addresses listed above.
THE ADDISON GROUP
We are the new Pittsburgh Office of a small London based management con­
sultancy. We work in the areas of company and market strategy, largely in 
the industrial field. We need a research assistant to aid in developing work 
in the USA around interesting ideas and companies. We would like someone 
who is a self-starter, who is interested in industry, has possibly a research 
background, who is challenged by unstructured ideas and a stimulating in­
tellectual environment. We would consider initially a part-time commitment, 
but the successful candidate could envisage a permanent postion as our work 
grows.
Please send a letter of application and a resume to:
Martin Shore
The Addison Group *
4 NorthShore Center 
Pittsburgh, PA 15212

---------------------------------------------------

Fall 1985 Spring Carnival 
Booth Meetings
All meetings on Mondays at
7pm in Skibo
Monday, November 4 Room 12 
November li Room 12 
November 18 Room 12 
November 25 Room li
Have a representative from your 
organization at each meeting if 
you plan on being a part of Car­
nival ’86.
thE*ä plZZ A
OAKLAND
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
t A-* ‘ !
,i>/>
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
Zurkby Nabil Liumangr
Murray the Bear
TONIGHTS MENU:
CHARCOALED MRS. PAULS UNDER A 
5TILL-FR0ZEN PE AS AND MAPLE 
SYRUP SAUCE. CAPT.CRUNCH 
SALAD WITH BLfU CHffSE 
t>RESSJN6 AMD FOR. DE3ERT...
BANANA-PI STACCIO PUDDlMS 
TOPPED WITH CHOPPED HO-HOS.
by Jimbo Voorhees
Poindexterby Don Beyer
Of 4 A.M. j
eVgp-W rJ'&HT THi<b \NE6K- ¦ I
nr~DÛIMÉ7
y
. i C*)<&7c? *THÖ^e AP*g 
Mv PP-IM6 TIMC MvPv-
/ 1 (CNtfVs/ 
VAJHAT VOÜ ^ /VlgA/sf...
I f'b T-OU&H T<? 
6CT AfA/THlM6 
DoiO€ W>|TH 
LeTT^ipiW^ 
STA*, öfJ
TN. ço LAte 
Ar usu3d0u
IMollem Eigenrac
Ta Trtn you THE 
50 MOüL£ W . TRUTH <fZ>, X 
mdoj "Do Moa J-JA ueu S fwfie ^t
¿/JOf VOUR /yy/v) i/£T 4k)
PLBO vnw\AT H W heMUC .60, r
\ ¿SStmE /AfiS
THAI'S CCOI. 
IT lc &e just 
UKS HAU1K)6,
A 51 HCtLe .•
venu, 16,ue<6.5UT 50rv\^7Wlv^ 
4Bout iWim 
JOWbfl ÏOlWE^S rtf.
oOmAC
by Mike McHugh & Co.

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 1985—The Tartan—Page 31
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw BLOOM muEsca
by Berke Breathed
“Before I tell you the results of your tests Mrs. Green, 
would you mind filling out one of these organ donor
cards?”provided by SDC
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
SKIBO 40A 578-2921
t—i—I—r
i Go home without a hassle •
We’re HHB SOFTRON, leaders within the fields of 
design, evaluation and technology markets, integrating 
leading edge simulation products and systems for the 
worldwide CAE/CAD/CAT segments of the electronics 
industry.
The progressive challenges of our environment are ever­
present. Our engineers stand on the peak of innovation, 
utilizing CADAT, a concurrent fault simulator to design 
software models of electronic circuits. Performances are 
analyzed, thus enabling engineers to shorten develop­
ment time, in bringing new products to the market.
HHB
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS/COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS:
uzzled*
your
career path???
Let us help you solve the problem...
We’re currently seeking creative, resourceful engineers 
possessing a BS, MS or PhD with a Computer Science 
or Electrical Engineer concentration to become part of our 
professional team. As you design hardware, software and 
CAE systems, you’ll also develop computer networking. 
The software technology is written primarily in C language 
for UNIX OS environments with logic thru system level 
design for most CAE projects. With a solid reputation in 
the industry and a committment to growth in people and 
products, HHB SOFTRON offers a dynamic challenge for 
the future. Look for our sign-up recruitment sheet located 
in the Career Placement Office.
" Our recruiting date is November 1.
.. .helping you grow...

---------------------------------------------------

ABConcertspresentsr - '
AN EVENING WITH 
WINDHAM HILL
'featuring
LIZ STORY 
MICHAEL HEDGES 
DAROL ANGERand
MIKE MARSHALL
Thursday, November 14 7:30 p.m.Carnegie Music Hall$5.00 for students with valid CMU ID.
Tickets on sale
*
Funded By Student Activities Fee
