Trustees kill Rehabilitation Center
&
by Rob Simbeck
Early this month, C-MU President 
Richard Cyert announced that the uni­
versity would abandon plans to lease 
property at Fifth and Morewood Avenues 
for use as a rehabilitation center for 
women convicts. Cyert cited neighborhood 
opposition as the reason for his decision, 
but apparently the project was killed by 
direct pressure brought to bear on the 
university even before an open zoning 
meeting that would have given both 
opponents and supporters of the program 
an opportunity to speak on the matter.
John G. Johnson, C-MU Vice President 
in Charge of Development, commented, “It 
was over when the phones started ringing.” 
The opposition was well aware of who to 
call and what to say. Johnson added that 
“some of our trustees wouldn’t have 
approved the use of the land for that 
purpose.”
The property in question is the Flinn 
House, a $125,000 mansion which has 
been vacant for a year. Formerly used for 
the offices of C-MU’s Division of Opera­
tions, it is a financial liability to the 
University because it needs $25,000 in 
repairs, and costs about $15,000 annually 
for taxes and utilities.
A year ago, Margaret Cyert, wife of 
C-MU President Richard Cyert, suggested 
that the University lease the building to the 
State Bureau of Corrections for use as a 
Treatment Center. Mrs. Cyert has worked 
with programs for women prisoners for a 
number of years and chaired a Citizen’s 
Commission on women’s prisons which 
sparked State legislation paving the way for 
such centers.
The Corrections Bureau welcomed the 
opportunity to use the house, and began 
making plans for the program. Fifteen to 
twenty-five women would have lived at the 
center, with an additional number
Gripes Arise 
On Parking
by Tom Lang
Once again, the academic year has 
opened with controversy over the fairness 
of parking regulations and rumors of a
Frew Street, soon to have meters. Photo by 
Stan Edelston
parking snortage.
According to Ron Taylor, Chief of 
Security, a slight surplus actually exists. 
However, there is some foundation to the 
continued on page 11
commuting regularly from their homes. 
They would have been given the chance to 
work in the community and take advantage 
of the area’s social and educational 
resources, while receiving counselling at the 
center. The house would have been staffed 
by five full-time counsellors, a domestic 
crew, and a number of social workers.
Joseph Pauza, regional director of 
community treatment services for the131 tartan
Flmn House, the $125,000 mansion, would have become a rehabilitation center. Photo by 
Reilly ,
Corrections Bureau, said, “This would have 
been an ideal location-the house is large 
enough, it’s out of the way, and its access 
to public transportation and the Oakland 
area would have been very beneficial.”
In order to use the building for the 
center, C-MU applied for a zoning variance,
and the City Planning Commission 
arranged for a hearing on September 11. 
While the Commission mailed announce­
ments of the zoning change request to the 
immediate neighbors of the house. The 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette printed a headline 
continued on page 7
September 18, 1973 Volume 74 Number 1
74-5 Tuition 
Raised $400
by Michael S. Baum
Last July, President Richard Cyert 
announced that CMU will increase its 
tuition four hundred dollars from the 
current $2,500 to $2,900 effective 
September 1974. This increase is com­
pounded by higher student housing costs 
and a proliferating inflationary trend.
Students, faculty, administration and 
the general public are speculating on the 
ramifications of the hike, but no one is 
positive of the effects. Has CMU outpriced 
its private education? Fears run from a 
drastic decrease in new applicants to some 
students being forced to drop out.
Tanya Allmond, president of the 
Student Senate, volunteered her reaction. 
“I feel that it was a forseen action by the
Housing Packs
Them In
by James Russell
An intentional over enrollment coupled 
with an unexpectedly low percentage of 
no-shows forced C-MU to lodge 81 
students in temporary housing at the 
beginning of the semester. The housing 
office accomodated many of the students 
by simply moving extra beds into already 
filled rooms in Boss Hall, McGill Hall, and 
Morewood Gardens. Others were housed in 
fraternities and in a converted janitor’s 
office in the basement of Welch Hall.
In response to a Student Senate 
resolution. Director of Operations Harry 
Rowell has promised to negotiate partial 
refunds for the students involved.
The housing office’s solution, over­
filling the rooms, was not popular. One 
student in McGill commented. “It sucks.” 
His pair of rooms had three desks, three 
dressers, three desk chairs, three study 
lamps, four beds, four people, and one 
closet. Lack of closet space and furniture is 
the main problem students in temporary 
housing face; many of the temporary 
students have been living out of suitcases.
The problem apparently originated 
because each year the Admissions office 
offers entry to more students than the 
University can find room for because it 
assumes that a certain number of them will 
refuse the offers. This year, a larger than 
expected percentage of students accepted.
The Housing Office, in a sense, found 
the entire problem thrown in their laps. 
Ms. Diane Costelli, named housing manager 
in July, said that the office assigned
freshmen (and upperclassmen who did not 
sign a contract last spring) to rooms'on a 
first come-first served basis.
Most students that the TARTAN asked 
about overfilling rooms complained that 
the procedure was unfair. One freshman 
noted that if housing can put 4 people in 
space furnished for 3 then “they could 
stick 10 people in a room and still charge 
$644 apiece.”
Student Senate reacted to the 
dissatisfaction with a resolution, which
continued on page 7
Dr. Cyert discusses the rising cost of education. 
Photo by Elliot Popovich
University seeing that the competing 
universities in our league . . . have gone up 
(tuition) by considerable amounts in the 
past three years . . . For the past three 
years it has remained at a constant level 
continued on page 10
The $67 K Wonder
by Chip Yeager
“Strange”
“OK”
“Fun to mess around on"
These and similar comments have been 
bestowed on the wooden platforms under 
construction in Skibo lobby. These and 
other improvements in the main lobby will 
cost $67,000 when complete. The con­
struction is part of an overall project to 
renovate Skibo, concentrating on the lobby 
and Wherrett Room. The renovation, paid 
for by alumni donations, will cost 
$100,000.
Why $67,000 for wood and carpeting? 
According to Robert W. McCurdy, Director 
of Student Activities, the cost takes into 
account new furniture, plexiglass panels 
suspended from the ceiling, labor, archi-
continued on page 8Photo by John Shettel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973
EDITOR’S MOTE
The first editorial of the year.
By now the summer is over. The first two weeks of classes have sunk 
in beneath our skins. The familiar grind of the academic life is re­
establishing its control over our lifestyles.
And all the introspective souls among us can now evaluate with the 
coldest, fishiest eyes the effect of the summer upon us and what we have 
learned from it.
What we have learned from it.
In history, this summer will be remembered as the summer of 
Watergate. The summer that Richard Nixon finally got his oats, although, 
unfortunately, it looks like he will not eat them. But at least he was 
exposed in front of the largest fishy eye, the eye of the American public 
and press.
His closest aides were exposed as examples of all that is evil, corrupt, 
amoral and dangerous in American society and the human race. And the 
organization of his executive decision-making process was scrutinized 
under the most intense public analysis ever applied to a United States 
government office.
Here lies the basis for our lesson, which is:
An efficient organization is only as good as the people who belong to 
it. Pretty obvious.
In Richard Nixon’s case, the organization itself was beautiful. It was 
a real model of efficiency that doesn’t seem to be too unlike the kind of 
ideal organizational model that would come out of GSIA or SUP A. Each 
person in the administration had a chunk of the responsibility and 
Richard Nixon ruled with a fair, but firm hand, delegating all but the most 
important of responsibilities. John Ehrlichman took the chunk called 
“domestic affairs” and H.R. Haide man took the tight-fisted chunk called 
“chief of staff”, administering like a veritable Ron Rutledge. Which is 
good.
Between the three of them, they could summon a firm grasp on all 
the important areas necessary to make the executive decisions of this 
country.
Unfortunately, these people were all morally bankrupt, perverse, 
derelict and out of touch with any human sensibilities.
Which brings us to a seemingly unrelated question: Can the Cyert 
administration survive?
We are led to this question very innocently by a new TARTAN 
reporter who asks, “Who is the most reasonable person in the admini­
stration?” The answer: "Why, Cyert himself.”
A talk with the man reveals a socially conscious person, blatantly 
et that private education is being screwed, in his eyes, by state 
governments that will not price publicly supported education on the same 
level as the private sector. Upset that tuition has to be raised. And 
downright angry that some goddamned influential prototypical capitalistic 
pigs have squelched a valuable rehabilitation program for women prisoners 
at the Flinn House.
Can Cyert survive as president, even with a successful system of 
organizational efficiency, if he is at least partially surrounded by the same 
mentality of moral perversion that has killed Nixon?
He probably will, if only because Cyert has a lot more class than 
Richard Nixon. But it is true, that some members of the administration 
bear a strong resemblance to Ha Ide man and Ehrlichman, especially around 
the eyes.
And the final question is,“What about the TA R TAN?”
Well the TARTAN has learned its lessons from history. And from its 
environment.
The system’s approach is the only way. Organizational efficiency is 
God. Herb Simon’s little red book on organizations is the Bible.
Somewhere in this issue appears a short news story on the 
TARTAN’s administrative changes. Everyone on the staff is confident that 
these changes will create efficiency, improvement in the quality of writing 
and general good will. With the right people, we hope to have a “good” as 
well as “efficient” organization. Everything that Nixon’s and Cyert’s 
should be.
ATTENTION: STAFF
1. Pictures for press passes will be taken on Thursday, 
September 20 between 4:30 and 4:45 and after the 
news-features staff meeting. All those in need of a 
press pass please be present.
2. This week^ news-features staff meeting will be held 
on Thursday at 4:45. If you cannot attnei ., please contact your editor.
3. The deadline for all articles that do not have a 
specific time constraint is Wednesday at 5:00. Any 
article that is received after the deadline without tne 
approval of an editor will not be printed.
¦ WAITING FOR THE TOTTER"
*
0
Letters:
Editor:
It has come as no shock to us here in 
Boston and New York to learn that 
Chatham College--a small college for pre­
dominantly rich women in the Pittsburgh 
area--once again has chosen to adhere to its 
original position and has refused to show 
the courage to restore to her appropriate 
academic honor the distinguished anthro­
pologist, Nan Pendrell.
The same right-wing reaction is now 
sweeping straight across the nation. Yet the 
Pendrell case stands out for several reasons.
It represents a classic combination of 
four separate forms of university- 
discriminati on: (1) the bias against scholars 
who are open in their stand beside the 
black and poor, (2) the bias against those 
who uphold clear and undisguised positions 
to the Left of the safe liberal center, (3) 
the bias against women, (4) the bias against 
those who are too youthful to be broken, 
to too old to be afraid.
The details of the case are now well-
documented. Dr. Pendrell--a dedicated 
scholar, a distinguished anthropologist and, 
by word of her own students, an extra­
ordinary teacher-was hired by Chatham 
College on the basis of her brilliant record 
at a time when she had already passed 
conventional retirement age. She then was 
suddenly fired on the same grounds (i.e. 
age beyond retirement) once the college 
learned of her strong loyalties to oppressed 
people and her catalytic impact on her 
pupils. It is difficult to know what 
Chatham would have done with Bertrand 
Russell, Bernard Shaw or Dorothy Day at 
the high point in their own unique careers.
The Pendrell law-suit, now in process in 
the courts of Pittsburgh, will have sub­
stantial impact on the academic climate in 
the nation as a whole. If the college wins, 
more teachers will be fired, silenced or 
intimidated in a number of other cases 
which resemble this. If Dr. Pendrell and her 
dozens of close allies and ex-students win, 
it will be a major victory for academic 
freedom in the U.S.
I now am joining with students and 
teachers, both of Chatham College and of 
continued on page 10tartan
Administrative Editor
Chris Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders 
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Business Manager
Dwayne Smalls
News Editor........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans
News and Features Staff............................
Marcia Abernathy 
Michael Baum, Gary Bronheim 
Sandy Como, John Craun 
Sharon Curcio, Thomas Kendig 
Chris Kiskaddon, Tom Lang 
Joe Orrndoiff, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Debbie Siegel, Rob Simbeck 
Kate Stainton, Lois Whaley, Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Frank Stein
Cartoonist.............................Ron Wiggins
Entertainment Editor .... Sue Klein 
Entertainment Staff . . Nonie Dempsey 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Hank Levy, Steve Perkins 
Cyndy Schmidt, Doug Stone
Copy Staff ............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Sports Editor ........................Jeff EngIund
Sports Staff....................Glenn Campbell
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Copy Staff ............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cindy Schmidt t
Business Staff.......................Lester Nathan
Layout Staff................Arlene Berkowit2
Louise Lopinto, Chip Yeager 
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy 
that it considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic 
year by the student government corporation of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon for announcements, classified ads and 
letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display ads on the Wednesday 
preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located in 
Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

NEWS COMMENT
No one at CMU’s campus, neither faculty, staff, administrator, 
student, nor even the Security Services Department, can honestly say that 
security’s handling of parking this year was completely organized, 
smoothly run, or efficient. The simple fact that for approximately thirty 
minutes all freshmen and sophomores were not sold any parking permits 
because, according to the security officers selling them, All the lots were 
filled,,, indicates the lack of a working system for parking allocation. 
Chief of Security Ron Taylor’s later version was that the lots were not 
filled, but rather that his people were simply putting a hold on 
applications so that Security could examine the demand for particular lots 
before assigning any more spaces.
Both the Dean of the College of Fine Arts, and the Provost ofGSIA, 
SUPA and H&SS (who doubles as the Dean of GS/A) were denied the 
parking spaces they requested. Although eventually corrected, these 
blunders, on top of the furious reaction of the commuter council and the 
fact that now, two weeks later, the parking secretary is just starting to 
become visible under the massive clutter of parking applications and 
processing forms, leads me to believe that the present system is 
completely ineffective. The development of a new system is essential. My 
criticisms complete, / now offer you (students, Security, etc.) the 
following proposal.
The major problems this year, Security’s lack of information on (A) 
Student (as well as employees) demand for parking (B) Lots desired by 
students and (C) Security’s lack of essential planning time between 
obtaining above information and applying it.
A solution to all three of these major problems would be to begin the 
parking application procedure before the beginning of classes.
The Parking application package-including parking application 
material, self-addressed return envelope and campus parking map-should 
be sent to all students with their registration computer cards. An enclosed 
letter should ask the student to pick his first, second, and third lot choices 
and mail the completed forms back before a certain deadline date in order 
to have his choices honored. A similar parking package should be sent to 
faculty and staff with their pay checks.
This advance mailing system would then allow security to compute 
the exact demand for parking, both in total and for each individual lot. 
All the clerical work can be done at a sane, organized pace instead of the 
present sixteen hour per day manner. All assignments should be made 
during the two week period between the return of the applications and 
the return of the students.
Students who fail to receive registration cards on time or who fail to 
return their parking applications will then be caught in the same mess that 
everyone was caught in this year. But at least under this system Security 
would know exactly where we all stand, and could use those last-minute 
applicants to fill remaining empty spaces. If for any reason there weren’t 
enough spaces for everyone, Security would have a chance to inform the 
unlucky people before they set off on eight-hour drives toward campus 
parking spaces that don’t exist.
When the student returns to C-MU all that is left for him to do is go 
to Security during an assigned time (determined alphabetically) and pick 
up his parking package, paying the parking fee before going to the lot of 
his choice and parking.
Ron Taylor’s current solution is to raise the prices of parking enough 
as to limit the number of applicants. As Ed Simon, the president of CCCP, 
pointed out, this would be analogous to "curing the campus housing 
problem by charging $5000 per term and then having 100 applicants who 
all want the same room.” Price discrimination is simply that: 
discrimination. Instead of discouraging parking (what else can a commuter 
do?), Security should concern itself with handling the present parkers 
efficiently. Price increases are no substitute for competence.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
commentary:
Legal Vandalism!
by Janusz Einhom
I would like to tell the general public 
about a shocking experience 1 recently had 
at C-MU.
While walking across campus I was con­
fronted with a poster which I had designed 
for the CMU Student Activities Board. The 
poster was to advertise a September 21st 
concert starring Kool and the Gang. 
Initially attracted by the reflective silver 
surface, and the fact that it was the first 
time I had seen my poster outside the
drawing board, I went to have a closer 
look. I was shocked to see an “X” slashed 
through the middle of the poster. My first 
thought was that it was a single incident of 
vandalism ... one of many similar debase­
ments occuring on campus. However, I 
later discovered that ALL the posters had 
the same slash! Soon after, I was even more 
astonished to learn that this was not, in 
fact, a case of vandalism, but rather a 
deliberate, barbaric action taken by the 
Student Activities Board to prevent the 
posters from being stolen!
I assume the action taken by the 
Student Activities Board was preventative; 
however, it was marred by a deep-rooted 
cynicism stemming from repeated
Prepared by Ron Taylor 
Chief of Security Services
1. Some people can’t get parking on 
campus this semester.
False. Parking space, though limited, 
is available.
2. The weighted seniority system was 
not applied.
Sort of true. First the pricing system 
worked to determine who would want 
to park where. Then, where demand 
was excessive in spite of price, the 
seniority system took effect.
3. Margaret Morrison Street Lot 3, once 
primarily used by commuters, is now 
primarily filled with staff and faculty. 
True. The lot was sold by seniority.
4. In fact, the system operates to locate 
the average student’s car in Morewood 
Lot 8 and Skibo Lot 5.
True. Many students would prefer to 
park in one of those lots anyway. But 
a student has the same problem the 
average faculty member has: space is
As prepared from the statements of Ed 
Simon, President of Commuter 
Council
The Commuter Council is particularly 
disturbed by the actions (or lack of same) 
of the parking committee and by the 
management by Security Services of the 
allocation of this year’s parking permits. 
Among the complaints, gripes and opinions 
of the Council are the following:
1. Parking is available to all those 
who wish to pay for it. Parking 
Committee’s rate schedule was insig­
nificantly different from last year’s 
rates, both of which are viewed as 
unfair. It is desirable to accomodate 
all who wish to park by providing a 
space; parking should be convenient.
2. There exists a finite number of 
parking spaces and not all these are 
“prime” spots. It is reasonable to use 
a seniority system to allot space. It is 
unreasonable to deny (by price or 
seniority) anyone who needs a space 
the right to one. The only way to 
accomplish this is to see that the lots 
are full to capacity. This is done by 
selling more permits than there are 
actual „paces. The 72-73 rate 
structure at CMU enabled 1600 
permits to be sold for 1200 spaces - 
but even with this, not every lot was 
full. (Certain lots were full and
incidences of vandalism. Their main con­
cern was the preservation of the poster at 
least until the date of the concert. 
However, no excuse is justified for 
destroying the serious efforts of the 
designer. The poster is an art form in its 
own right, and therefore, it is both contra­
dictory and self-defeating for one of the 
finer institutions of education to be 
insensitive to this essential fact.
A discussion concerning the inter­
relatedness between communication and 
composition-aesthetics is in order. For the 
designer, it is crucial for the poster to 
reflect the carefully planned composition 
of the work, as well as to communicate the 
inherent aesthetic components of the
available but not always in the lot of 
his choice.
Items Affecting Parking This Year
The city’s promise to install meters 
caused an unexpectedly large number of 
staff and faculty to apply for parking 
spaces. The prices set earlier were not high 
enough to limit the increased demand. In 
essence, too many people with seniority 
could afford to park.
Some people assumed or were incor­
rectly advised that if they didn’t receive 
their requested spaces by September 4 they 
wouldn’t get spaces at all. Actually, you 
could apply after that date: if. or. 
September 10, an opening remained in the 
lot you requested and you had m-::e 
seniority than the other late applicants, 
you got the space.
The primary method of allocating 
parking is the pricing system that limits 
demand. This year, the prices were simply 
too low in nearly all of the lots.
others less than half fullfor any given 
time frame.)
3. Any attempt to state that the 
basic rules of preregistration were 
followed or that permits were not 
sold to staff before the registration 
cutoff date is a blatant lie.
4. The fact that Margaret Morrison 
Street lot 3 which was once primarily 
used by commuters, is now chiefly 
made up of faculty and staff is insig­
nificant until it is realized that this is 
one of the low cost lots.
5. The students’ preference for the 
Morewood lot (8) and the Skibo lot 
(5) is purely because of the price and 
not because of convenience.
6. There is not a minimum number 
of spaces reserved for students, and 
just the fact that employees easily 
obtained spaces for themselves to re­
place the spaces on the streets that 
are now being metered shows that 
employees have the first chance at 
low cost parking.
7. The claim that there is no campus 
parking problem is the equivalent of 
curing the campus housing problem 
by charging $5,000 per term and 
then having 100 applicants who all 
want the same room.
poster as an art form, e.g. imagery, 
lettering, color-contrast, depth dimension, 
and placement. By employing both the 
practical purpose of the poster as well as 
the aesthetic considerations, the poster 
develops from being merely informative 
into a legitimate art form. Therefore, the 
action taken by the Student Activities 
Board deprived the self-respecting segment 
of the public, i.e., those who would not 
consider debasing or selfishly securing the 
poster for their own home, the right to 
publically view and appreciate the in­
formative as well as aesthetic aspects of the 
poster. The A.B. had condoned their own
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Admissions Office is seeking the active
participation of CMU students in its 
current tour guide activities. Tour guides 
volunteer to conduct campus tours for pro­
spective students and their parents. Such 
tours enable the visitors to gain some in 
sight into what our university offers from a 
person who is involved most directly in 
that college experience. The Admissions 
Office welcomes your interest in this pro­
gram and encourages you to stop in and 
speak with Cheryl, 1st floor, Warner Hall.
Information has just arrived in the Ful-
bright Adviser's Office (207 Warner Hall) 
concerning opportunities to teach abroad. 
Application deadline is November 1, 1973. 
Requirements include: U.S. citizenship and 
a bachelor's degree at the time of appli­
cation; three years of teaching experience 
by the beginning date of grant; in some 
cases, facility in the language of the host 
country. Elementary and secondary 
teachers, and college instructors and 
assistant professors are eligible to apply.
Register your valuable property (stereos
cameras, etc.) with the Pittsburgh Police 
who will engrave a special identificatior 
number on it to deter theft. Engraving wil 
be done between 6:30 and 10:00 p.m. on 
three consecutive days: in Hamerschlag 
House on Tuesday, September 18; in 
Mudge on Wednesday, September 19; and 
in Donner Lounge on Thursday, September 
20.
The Kiltie Symphony Band will audition
non-music majors on Wednesday, 
September 19, at 5:45 pm in Exhibition 
Hall in Fine Arts. Instruments will oe 
furnished if needed. The band particularly 
needs tuba and percussion players this 
year. If you can't attend the scheduled 
tryouts, contact Richard Strange, the con­
ductor, at ext. 426 or through the Music 
Department office.
Free bus service between the main campus
and the Mellon Institute is available 
between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday
•i a>
I 
I 
I
s eI © — ’2S ^
I -»
I 
I 
I
*
I
I
I
e-csi c CM T3 wCO o
4>O) </>
8
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
CM
a>
a> c 
£
£ ¦& 
25a> cT-. o q> 
«
C S5 O a> = jz 
c 2 a> 
OÎ« CL a>
°o «
•£ CD 2
I }
i { 
u- I
¡5 2 I00 V» 1
w si
52 £
wi/i
S
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.1
through Friday. The shuttle bus operates 
on a continuous run basis starting from the 
rear entrance of the Mellon Institute 
building. It makes stops in front of Skibo, 
in front of Margaret Morrison (the Fine 
Arts parking lot) and beside the Porter Hall 
entrance that is closest to ScaifeHall (Frew 
Street). Anyone who would like to rent a 
shuttle bus for Saturday or evening func­
tions should call the Physical Plant Office, 
extension 678, for information and rates.
One woman show of paintings and
drawings by llene Savage. Oils, acrylics, 
pastels, charcoal, pencil, and you name it. 
They're wild. Some realistic, but mostly 
surrealistic. From September 1 to 31 at the 
Carnegie Library in Squirrel Hill at Murray 
and Forbes.
A one day workshop on government docu­
ments will be co-sponsored by the Pitts­
burgh Regional Library Center, The South­
west Chapter, PLA and the Pittsburgh 
Chapter, SLA at Carnegie-Mellon 
University on Saturday, October 6, 1973. 
The workshop, which will be designed not 
only for those working with government 
materials, but also for those desiring to 
learn something more about these publi­
cations, will cover state, local, federal and 
international documents.
There will be a free lecture sponsored by
SIMS-IMS, on the practice of trans­
cendental meditation on Monday, Sept. 10 
at 8:00 p.m. at Scaife Auditorium, C-MU.
Rodef Shalom Congregation will hold
religious services for the Jewish High Holy 
Days of Rosh Hashanah on Wednesday 
evening. September 26 and Thursday 
morning, September 27; Yom Kippur on 
Friday evening, October 5 and Saturday, 
October 6. There will be an early and a late 
evening service at 6:30 and 9:15. The 
morning services will be at 10:00.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
offers instruction in traditional English 
dances. The group meets in Room 524 of 
the University of Pittsburgh Student 
Union, Fifth Ave., at Bigelow Blvd., from 7 
to 9 p.m. on the first, third, and fourth 
Sundays of the month. Newcomers are 
welcome.
Students eligible for veterans educational
benefits are reminded that they should see 
Mrs. Cox, Coordinator of Veterans 
Activities, on the second floor of Warner 
Hall immediately after completing registra­
tion to insure that the Veterans Ad­
ministration is officially notified of their 
enrollment.
Women's Health Services, a non-profit
organization, has opened a low-cost 
abortion and contraception clinic at 625 
Stanwix Street in downtown Pittsburgh. It 
is open to all women and charges $150 for 
an abortion using the vacuum aspiration 
method under local anesthesia, requiring a 
three hour stay. The clinic performs free 
pregnancy tests on Thursday mornings. For 
information, call 391-5203.
All electrical engineering students are en­
couraged to attend a SAC meeting on 
Tuesday, September 18 at 11:30 in 
HH104, to discuss any matters involving 
the EE department.
College students are no longer auto­
matically ineligible for welfare, thanks to a 
court order overturning the previous policy 
of the Department of Public Welfare.
Students who think they may be eligible 
should contact their nearest public
assistance office. Information is also 
available from the Welfare Rights Organi­
zation of Allegheny County, 471-0180.
Anyone wishing to perform or to provide
technical service (lighting, sound) for the 
AB Coffeehouse should contact either Bill 
King 681-4599 or Trissy Bowers 682-8898. 
Any suggestions for a new name for the 
coffeehouse would also be welcomed.
The next general meeting of Student Senate
will take place on Tuesday, September 25 
at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo. It is open to the campus. Senate will 
not meet on Tuesday, September 18.
The Comer Drugstore, operated by the
Women's Dorm Council, will be open from 
3-9 p.m. on Monday through Thursday, 
from 3-7 p.m. on Friday, from 5-7 p.m. on 
Saturday, and from 5-9 p.m. on Sunday. 
As before, it is located in the Morewood 
Gardens lobby.
Only Xerox Copy Center in Oakland
OUR LOW PRICES ARE:
1 THRU 15 = 5VC0PY
16 THRU 45 : 37C0PY ONE ORIGINAL
45 AND UP: 27C0PY
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING:
1. FREE COLATING (SORTING)
2.20% Discount FOR TWO (2) ORIGINALS ON SAME PAGE 
3. REDUCTIONS (407COPY)
WE ARE LOCATED IN THE HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
ACROSS FROM THE MELLON INSTITUTE 
DITHRIDGE STREET ENTRANCE 
683-8040
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Drama Therapy Workshop. Participants
invited. Techniques derived from Environ­
mental Theater, Yoga, Improvization 
(music, theater dance), Folk Dance, etc. 
Seeking modern day "curing rites". Two 
sessions per week, Sept. til June. No 
charge. Hard work. Commitments 
expected. Professional supervision. Call 
Franklyn 681-1019 between 9 p.m. and 11 
p.m. (Training or experience in the Arts or 
in Therapy useful but not necessary.)
Students considering law school should
obtain information about the Law School 
Admission Test as early as the Junior year, 
if possible. A bulletin containing detailed 
information about the Law School Ad­
mission Test and counseling respecting law 
school may be obtained from Professor 
Thomas M. Kerr, Room 206, GSIA.
There will be an organizational meeting of
Sweepstakes Buggy Chairmen on Thursday, 
September 20, at 11:00 p.m. at Phi Kappa 
Theta. Attendance is important for all pro­
spective entrants in next spring's races.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Need color slides for teaching? Slide
shows? Slides made from your materials. 
Diagrams and sketches also prepared from 
your rough drafts for slide photography. 
Reasonable prices. Telephone S.I. Sheeran. 
683-1191 after 7:30 pm. Weekdays.
For rent: 3-speed bicycles and compact
refrigerators-ideal for dormitories and 
apartments. Inquire at 279-7951 after 7 
pm. only.
Free: Beautiful pure white kittens-two-Call
243-6820. (Siamese mother).
Young Judaea Hashachar- Advisors posi­
tions open. If have Jewish-Zionist Educa­
tion- and interested, call 521-4877.
For Sale-JVC AM-FM stereo w. cassette, w.
turntable. Gary Bronheim, 441-5211.
Furnished Squirrel Hill Beautiful, modern
spacious. Lots of storage space. Private 
Bath. Excellent Location. 521-0335.
Furnished Squirrel Hill. Small modern
apartment. Newly decorated. Private 
entrance and bath. Excellent location. 
521-0335.
Fantastic Plastic Whse sale. Large selection
of colored Plex-glass sheet and colored 
Plex-glass tubing. Prices reduced for 
clearance. Cadillac Plastics. 600 Seco Rd. 
Monroville Industrial Park. 372-2202. Sat. 
September 22, 8:30 am. to 3 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973—Page 5
Emergency System 
Updated
by Barbara Shumovich
Emergency medical care at CMU has 
been updated this year with the purchase 
of an ambulance and the training of 6 
Security Service men as Emergency Medi­
cal Technicians. The fully equipped ambu­
lance meets proposed federal standards and 
provides the equipment to utilize the medi­
cal techniques which the men have learned. 
Ron Taylor, head of security, and five 
other men participated in the intensive 82 
hour training course last spring at McKees­
port Hospital.
The cost of the ambulance was $12,000
oxygen supply, adjustable stretcher, appa­
ratus for burns, lacerations, bone fractures, 
spinal and tissue injuries. Taylor has even 
ordered a maternity kit. These facilities, 
along with the training program, enable the 
security officers to detetmine the serious­
ness of an injury, give initial aid to prevent 
the condition from worsening, and trans­
port the injured in a manner that rriini- 
'mizes possibility of increased injury. The 
ambulance, which became operational last 
month, has been called out 6 times already. 
However, the trained technicians are not 
yet on duty for every shift through 24
while the men who took the training 
course were paid overtime, bringing the 
total cost near $14,500. Ron Taylor points 
out that the Security Service was left with 
a surplus of funds last year. Harry Rowell, 
director of operations, and Ron Taylor de­
cided this spring that CMU should expand 
its emergency services because of some re­
cent accidents (including spinal injuries and 
heart attacks) and 2 deaths that security 
was not really prepared to handle. Security 
Services handles up to 500 ambulance runs 
per year, including 50 that it classifies ser­
ious.
Features of the ambulance include an
Photo by Shamlien
hours.
A plan to set up a cooperative emergen­
cy system with other local colleges is un­
likely to be carried out because of union 
difficulties. But security has already con­
sulted with the emergency room staff of 
Shadyside Hospital to determine which 
procedures they prefer in treating specific 
injuries.
In case of an accident or emergency, 
security advises these steps:
Henderson 
Bugged
by Steve Calhoun
It seems the residents of Henderson 
found their dormitory was already occu­
pied when they moved in at the beginning 
of the month.
“Say, have you seen my cockroach by 
any chance?”
“Are you feeling all right? ”
“Hey, look man, all I want to know is 
whether or not you’ve seen a cockroach 
crawling around anywhere. You know: 
black, about two inches long, kinda scut­
tles across the floor. ”
“Uh, no, I haven’t seen your cockroach, 
but I hear they have all kinds of them over 
at Henderson. You might try looking 
there. ”
“Hey, thanks a lot, man. ”
“Sure, any time. ”
During the week of registration, Hender­
son residents dropped in at the Housing 
Office singly and in groups to complain 
about the situation. They were issued cans 
of bug spray which worked-if you could 
get the roach to stand still for a half hour 
while you sprayed half the contents of the 
can on him.
Apparently the whole problem arose be­
cause of a conflict in maintenance opera­
tions this summer. When the exterminator 
came to do his thing, the painters were still 
working upstairs in Henderson, so he'only 
fumigated the basement. That forced the 
bugs up toward the floors used by stu­
dents, where the creatures emerged from 
drains and from under radiators.
“Excuse me, but have you seen a cock­
roach around here by any chance?”
“Have I seen a cockroach? My good 
man, you’ve come to the right place. We 
have the most complete selection of cock-
Memorial Fund 
Needs *5,000
A fund has been established in memory 
of Mary Magdalene Martin DePorres 
LaBarbara, known to her friends as Maggie. 
Maggie was killed in a car accident in June, 
a few miles from her home in Mt. Gretna, 
Pa. In 1972, she received her bachelor’s 
degree from the department of music and 
was currently working on her masters in 
music education. Maggie’s major 
instrument was the euphonium.
In lieu of sending flowers, Mrs. Claire 
LaBarbara, Maggie’s mother, thought it 
would be Maggie’s preference to have a 
fund established which could be used to 
provide emergency loans for music 
students. A minimum of $5,000 is needed 
to endow the account. If this amount is 
not received, the fund can not be per­
manently established as part of the 
University’s investment portfolio, however, 
whatever monies are collected will be used 
for emergency loan purposes. Funds will be 
accumulated until mid September 1974.
Any student in the music department 
may qualify for help from this fund, but 
music students enrolled in the music 
education program will be given 
preference. When applying for a grant, the 
student must apply through the Office of 
the Dean of Students. Anyone wishing to 
make a contribution should send it to the 
Development Office, Warner Hall, 513.
roaches this side of Warner Hall About 
what size would you like? We have one 
inch, one and a half inch, two inch, and 
two and a half inch models. Do you prefer 
the kind that scrunches when you step on 
it or the kind that squishes? We also have 
the deluxe package where you get three 
bugs for the price of two. ”
“No, no, you don’t understand. You see 
it’s sort of a pet, and it got loose, and 
someone told me to come over to Hender­
son and-oh well, / guess i’ll just have to 
look around here for myself and find it. ” 
“Well, good luck. ”
“Thanks. ” (A loud scream is heard from 
down the hall.) “Hey, what was that?”
“Oh, some girl must have found another 
cockroach in the bathroom They kind of 
get to you after a while. ”
The story ends (more or less) happily, 
however, because the exterminator re­
turned last week to finish his work on the 
upper floors. Since then, very few cock­
roaches have been seen. The residents of 
Henderson don’t act as if they miss them at 
all.
Simple, 
straight-forward, 
classic - out of step 
with today's 
throwaway culture. 
Refillable cartridge, 
ballpoint or fiber tip 
marker in basic tan 
or navy blue.
$1.98: not bad for a pen 
you may use the 
rest of your life.
$1.98
Call Security at 666 ot 683-7717 (24 
hours); give the location and nature of the 
injury ; and do not move the victim.
Photo by Elliot Arons

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973
Fine ArtsSqueezing
In
by Amy Reitmeyer
Through a program C.F.A.’s Dean 
Midani likes to call “Recycling,” he has 
developed a solution to the space problems 
in the College of Fine Arts. Enrollment in 
this college has doubled over the past 
twenty years, creating a crowded situation^ 
in the CFA building, which was originally 
designed for 200 students. Freshmen 
through graduate students in the depart­
ments of architecture, design, drama, 
music, painting and sculpture equal 1087 
according to the first registration 
tabulation for Fall 1973.
Last year, plans for a new CFA building 
were considered, the expenses for which 
were estimated at $1,000,000. As only 
$250,000 was available from the federal 
government, it was decided that all 
available on-campus space would be used 
for CFA. Dean Midani admits that “Using 
old rooms on campus will not be as 
glamorous as having a new building*.but it 
is a wise and economical solution.”
At one time the Music department was 
going to be in Mellon Institute of Science. 
Soundproofing and making the Research 
center acoustically adequate would be 
extremely expensive, and it was decided 
that the move would be too impractical as 
student mobility is hampered and the 
music department would be too isolated 
from campus.
The government grant will be used for 
improvements in the Drama department 
including an important addition to the 
Studio Theatre. A square building set at an 
angle to the theatre on the Forbes Ave. 
side, the addition will provide washing 
facilities and work shops. Another windfall 
to the Drama Department was when the 
Biology department moved from Margaret 
Morrison to Mellon Institute of Science. The 
Drama department was given all sewing 
machines and dress making shops and the 
large open spaces of the labs are now 
available for studio work.
The F.A. department is also using 
certain areas of Doherty Hall. The 
Architecture department, at the beginning 
of the semester, 'acquired 2200 sq. feet in 
the middle section of Doherty Hall. The 
ceramic and metal shops of the Painting 
and Sculpture department are now located 
in Doherty Hall.
A total of 40% more space was gained in 
Margaret Morrison and Doherty Hall for 
the College.
The newest department in Fine Arts is 
Design, which has not undergone any 
physical moves. A former branch of 
Painting and Sculpture, the Design 
has been on its own for three years, with 
most of its classes being held in Baker Hall. 
Dean Midani believes that the department 
is unique as philosophy; practice and 
aesthetics of design exist within a climate 
of science and technology.
“More studio space is needed for CFA. 
However the main goal of the College of 
Fine Arts is excellence, and this should not 
be affected by size. The CMU campus is 
compact and it is enriching for all parts of 
the University to work together. CFA 
strives to be an active part of the campus.” 
concluded the Dean.
Sexuality Program - 
at Last
Photo by Shamlien 
"Old rooms are as glamorous as having a 
new building but...”
Starting this fall Camegie-Mellor. 
University will offer a Program on Human 
Sexuality. The program will include 
gynecological services, human sexuality 
counseling, and an educational lecture 
series.
The gynecological services portion of 
the program will begin on September 20 at 
the Health Service in D Tower of More- 
wood Gardens. The hours will be 1:00 p.m. 
to 4:00 p.m. Dr. Koehler, who will be the 
participating physician, has been with 
Carnegie-Mellon University since 1960. 
Prior to that time she had her own gyne,- 
cological practice. Presently, in addition to
Photo by Ellen Eddy
Cash it while you can! 
:ashing awaits approval.
Fifteen cent charge for check
Check Charge 
Coming Soon
by Chris Kiskaddon
CMU Treasurer G.O. Luster has asked 
the Faculty Affairs Council to approve a 
15 cent charge for check cashing. The cash­
ier’s office now cashes personal checks of 
less than $50 for free and charges for 
N.S.F. checks.
In an interview, Luster said he would 
institute the charge in an effort to pay the 
expenses of the check cashing service, 
which requires a full-time employee, de­
livery of cash by Cauley armored truck 
service, and handling of approximately 
70,000 checks a year. That involves a lot of 
clerical work.
The cashier’s office quit cashing payroll 
checks last February, partly to save the 
cost of insurance for handling large sums in 
cash. CMU check cashing works out of a 
“revolving fund”, separate from the regular 
university system of accounts. When the 
money for cashing checks begins to run 
out, checks are taken to the bank to get 
some more money.
Mr. Luster asserted also that a good 
internal system doesn’t cash the payckecks 
it distributes itself, saying such a procedure 
promotes fraud and collusion
According to Luster, the check cashing 
service began years ago, when few banking 
facilities were convenient to the campus. 
There are now several banks in the area to
which a student may go to cash checks. 
But he may have problems cashing a check 
from an out of town bank at a Pittsburgh 
bank; it takes proper identification. Luster 
remarked that while establishing relations 
with a bank may be the first part of estab­
lishing oneself in a new town, a student is 
not necessarily ready for this.
Therefore, the campus community may 
be willing to pay for the convenience of 
check cashing at CMU, in the basement of 
Warner Hall.
Photo by Shamlien
College of Fine Arts expands to Margaret 
Morrison-an economical solution.
her work at CMU, she is on the staff of the 
Pittsburgh Board of Education.
Five major service areas will be covered 
by this program. Dr. Koehler will be: (1) 
taking gynecological histories, (2) ad­
ministering gynecological examinations, (3) 
administering, when indicated, pap smears 
and other laboratory tests, (4) encouraging 
accurate breast self-examinations and (5) 
providing prescriptions and methods of 
contraception.
As in the past, examinations for 
venereal disease will be conducted by all 
three Health Services physicians. If needed, 
referrals will be made to the Allegheny 
County Health Department.
This gynecological service is available by 
appointment. To schedule an appointment 
call Mrs. Gibson (Health Service, 621-2600 
ext. 417 or 418) during the morning hours.
In line with University policies 
governing the operation of the Health 
Service, Counseling Service and academic 
and personnel record keeping, complete 
confidentiality will be maintained in 
connection with this new service.
The Counseling portion of this program 
will provide students with an opportunity 
to explore fully the issues of human 
sexuality about which they have become 
concerned. For more detailed information 
contact the Counseling Center, Baker Hall.
The third portion of the total program 
is the Educational Lecture Series. This has 
been designed to deal descriptively with 
the physiology of sexuality as well as its 
nature and function. The program will 
include a series of lectures by professionals 
in relevant fields. The Series will include 
six lectures covering topics important to 
both men and women. Small group dis­
cussions following the lectures will provide 
opportunities for those interested students 
to raise questions dealing with the 
physiological, psychological, social and per­
sonal impact of the material presented. The 
series will begin the second week in 
October.
TYPING
FAST-REASONABLE-EFFICIENT
TERM PAPERS-THESES-DISSERTATIONS 
PUNCTUATION, SPELLING, GRAMMAR 
CORRECTED
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
Electric Typewriters used exclusively
PHOTO COPIES MADE
INDEPENDENT FILM-MAKER 
Stan Brakhage 
FILMS AND DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 18 at 8:30 pm
IN THE
Carnegie Lecture Hall
STUDENTS *1.00
INFORMATION 622-3212
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT 
ORDER or START NOW 
HAND FASHIONED GIFTS 
for the HOLIDAYS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September lb, iy/d—rage /
No Break For Prisoners
continued from page 1
“C-MU Campus to get Women Cons 
Center”. The two immediately triggered a 
number of phone calls to the University 
from inquisitive and irate neighbors. After 
hearing the opposition, President Cyert 
met with the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Trustees. They decided to scrap 
the plan. The speed of the decision, and 
the fact that the community’s only chance 
for an in-depth discussion—the zoning 
change hearing—was immediately 
cancelled, suggest the nature and degree of 
pressure the University was under. These 
were not simply neighbors expressing 
concern. If that had been the case, the 
zoning hearing would have been the perfect 
place for discussion. The neighborhood is 
one of the city’s best, and many of its 
residents contribute heavily to the Uni­
versity. Commenting on this, Johnson said, 
“A large number of people who did express 
concern are, in fact, good friends of the 
University.” He added that a number of
neighbors “called attorneys so fast that 
there would have been a veritable on­
slaught of lawyers at that (Zoning) 
meeting.”
On the other hand, many neighbors 
were pleased with the project. Virginia 
Thornburg, a member of the Pennsylvania 
Association for Retarded Children, and 
wife of Western Pennsylvania’s U.S. 
Attorney Richard Thornburg, said, “I am 
deeply committed to these programs. 
Every citizen has a right to live in and be a 
part of the community.” William Block, 
publisher of the Post-Gazette and one of 
the closest neighbors to the house, said: “I 
was in favor of the project, and I support 
Dr. Cyert in his effort to make this a useful 
property. I was going to go to the hearing, 
which was the logical place to hear more 
details and express opinions. But the 
neighbors never got that opportunity.” 
Concerning the opposition, he said, “If a 
sophisticated neighborhood like this can’t 
be a little more open-minded, how can you
expect to find a place? It will be common 
knowledge that this area turned it down, 
and that won’t make it any easier for them 
to find another neighborhood.”
With the lack of information, the Post- 
Gazette article disturbed many neighbors. 
The negative reaction was quick, strong, 
and emotional. Some opposed the 
mechanics of the program: “Twenty-five 
people are too many for that one building, 
even if they don’t have any problems.” 
Another opposed the zoning change: “I am 
against sf>ot zoning. It leads to the deterior­
ation of an area. Zoning is set up by the 
city to protect real estate.” One 
commented that much of the pressure 
came from owners of apartment houses 
across the street and in the area. “They feel 
that if this house is used for this prisoner 
program, people would stay away. They 
wouldn’t have anything left.”
“A project like this needs everything 
going for it to succeed,” said Johnson. This 
project obviously did not have everything 
going for it. The lack of public explanation 
left a vacuum that was quickly filled b^ 
intense negative pressure on the University, 
and the project fell through.
The seeds for the quick opposition were 
¡own to a great extent by the failure of 
30th the Corrections Bureau and the 
University to inform the neighborhood of 
the project. Those living closest to the 
building received a copy of the zoning 
change request, which said there were plans 
for a “Community Treatment Center”. No 
further information was given them. Most 
found out through the Pittsburgh news­
papers. One neighbor said, “We had to ca 
just to find out what they were using k 
for,” and another commented that “by the 
time we realized what was going on, it had 
been dropped.”
Joseph Pauza said that the Correction 
Bureau believed the University was 
responsible for informing the 
neighborhood. “We got very few calls. Our 
involvement was minimal.” Johnson ex­
plained that the University expected the 
Corrections Bureau to set up a dialogue. 
“Historically we’ve done a good job of 
considering the needs and fears of the 
neighborhood”, citing for an example a 
meeting with neighbors df the proposed 
Fine Arts complex about possible parking 
problems on the nights of public per­
formances. Of the Flinn House project he 
said, “In this case we didn’t do it well-we 
didn’t do it at all,” adding tersely, “We 
blew it.”Mr. Johnson spoke of his conviction 
that “even if the zoning change had 
squeezed through, the neighborhood 
atmosphere would have been wrong.”
Mrs. Cyert expressed her disappoint­
ment in the cancellation of the project, and 
she and Dr. Cyert pledged to “work to help 
find a more suitable location for such a 
center.” Mrs. Cyert also expressed belief 
that “such people really can function more 
happily and at considerably less expense to 
'society if they are given a sort of semi- 
protection in society. The biggest barrier is 
us-the fears of so-called normal people."
The Corrections Bureau is now looking 
for a new location. Said Mr. Pauza,“We 
have to start the search over.” He anti­
cipates another six to eight months of 
looking. “I’m very disappointed to lose the 
building. This was a Fine opportunity for 
this community to become involved in 
something innovative.”
The University is now trying to sell or 
lease the property elsewhere, 
continued from page 1Ah, For A Bed
passed 20-2, that protested the placement 
of temporary roommates and called for a 
1/5 to 1/3 refund of the ‘daily rent’ to all 
students involved in the crowding. The 
motion, offered by James Johnston, MDC 
representative, was amended during debate 
to include a statement that the housing 
office is not at fault.
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank 
said during discussion of the motion, ‘i’m 
not at all dismayed (by the motion), 
though 1 was by some of the original 
rhetoric .... I would probably even be 
willing to endorse it.”
Rowell promised the TARTAN that 
“We’ll make a refund, but first we have to 
go the whole route of determining exactly 
what ‘daily rent’ means.”
Rowell explained, however, that the 
whole situation may well recur next year. 
“We can expect in future years that there 
will sometimes be an overflow and that 
sometimes our predictions will overshoot 
in the opposite direction (and we will have 
empty rooms.) We may have an extra 81 
students next year or we may have no 
extras.. . The science of statistics is not 
yet exact.” Ms. Costelli said all temporarily 
assigned students would know their 
permanent addresses by the time this 
edition went to press.
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 1973
FOR FACULTY AND THEIR FAMILIES 
FOR STUDENTS OF ALL THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES
ROSH HASHANAH
WEDNESDAY Sept. 26 8:00 P.M. BallRoom-SKIBO*
THURSDAY Sept. 27 10:00 A.M. RogalRoom-Y-IKC**
(KIDDUSHFOLLOWING MORNING SERVICE) 
FRIDAY Sept. 28 10:00A.M. RogalRoom-Y-IKC**
YOM KIPPUR
KOLNIDRE
FRIDAY Oct. 5 7:00 P.M. Ball Room-SKIBO*
SATURDAY Oct. 6 RogalRoom-Y-IKC**
Morning Worship 10:00 A.M. - 2:00 P.M.
Afternoon Worship-Neilah-Havdalah-Sounding of Shofar
5:00 P.M. - Sunset
BREAK-THE-FAST DINNER FOLLOWING SHOFAR - BY RESERVATION ONLY -- S1.25
CALL 621-8875 BY NOON, OCTOBER 3
Arrangements Can Be Made Through The Hillel Office For Home Hospitality 
(Local Synagogues & Temples Welcome Students. Call the Synagogue of your 
choice or 621-8875)
*Skibo - Student Union of Carnegie-Mellon U. off Forbes Ave. on the C.M.U. Campus 
**Y-IKC Bldg., 315 S. Bellefield Ave. (opposite Heinz Chapel)
ALL WELCOME
For Further Information call 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973
Skibo
Reborn !
continued from page 1
tectural fees, and modification of the 
ceiling to accept the panels. The carpeting 
alone - 400 yeards of it to cover the multi­
level wood forms in Skibo lobby - plus 
backing and metal trim, cost a total of 
$6800.
The smoked plexiglass panels will be 
suspended five feet below the present 
ceiling in an attempt to create an 
atmosphere of warmth while allowing 
enough light through from above to read 
by. The ceiling itself had to be modified, 
with new panels and studs installed from 
which to hang the plexiglass.
Alumni Association Director McCurdy 
emarked that the Skibo project is really a 
hysical manifestation of alumni support, 
nd a reminder to graduates of their 
esponsibility. McCurdy himself is in favor 
A calling Skibo a “student-alumni center.” 
ill major plans originated with alumni 
pproval in mind, since a special 1968 
alumni fund for the renovation of Skibo 
provided the money for all this.
Indeed, among the expenses of the 
Skibo project is a bronze plaque costing 
S2,500 which will list all contributors of 
SI,000 or more to the Skibo campaign.
But the ultimate responsibility for the 
Skibo renovations lies with a special 
committee, appointed by CMU President 
Richard M. Cyert in January of this year. 
This committee including Dean of Student
Affairs Earle R. Swank. Professor Beekman 
W. Cottrell, Alumni Association Director 
Richard G. McCurdy, and Activities 
Director Robert W. McCurdy, was 
authorized to spend $100,000 in improving 
Skibo. That money was originally almost 
$4 million, part of the 1968 campaign goal 
of $55 million. The campaign failed to 
achieve its goal, and plans for Skibo were 
accordingly scaled down. Among the Skibo 
funds siphoned off was an undetermined 
amount that went to the Fine Arts 
Department to secure a 1972 grant from 
HEW.
In planning the improvement of Skibo, 
the committee concentrated on the non- 
operational part, excluding the Tartan 
Grill, Kiltie Cafe, etc. The committee 
priorities, in order, were the lobby, 
Wherrett Room, downstairs area, and 
Skibo Ballroom.
The committee held a design 
competition, stipulating that all entries 
would provide a stepped structure with 
many comers and barriers that would let 
students gather yet remain separate when 
they wanted to. Winners were Curry, 
Martin, Highberger and Klaus, an 
architectural firm whose staff includes 
several C-MU graduates, and Franklin 
Interiors. Both firms are located in Pitts­
burgh.
When asked why campus design 
students had no hand in the competition, 
Bob McCurdy said that, to his knowledge, it 
had never been customary to use student 
designs. McCurdy added that while the 
design faculty was not directly involved, its 
members made frequent contacts with out­
side firms and acquaintances, thus 
providing some campus voice in the 
planning. The Skibo lobby renovation is 
expected to be finished by the end of this 
month. When the lobby is complete, the 
former wide open spaces will give place to 
two corridors, dividing the lobby into three 
areas. Only two areas will contain plat­
forms. The third, against the north wall 
will have carpeting and furniture at floor 
level.
Wherrett Room improvement should be 
complete by Homecoming, in early 
November. Described by an architect- 
consultant as “much too reverberant”, it 
will have new lighting and acoustical 
paneling on its walls, important since this 
room is the most heavily used in Skibo. 
Wherrett Room improvements are to cost 
$33,000.
Meanwhile, students are already 
working themselves in around the carpet 
installers and pieces of carpeting, and 
making frequent use of the Skibo 
platforms. On any day, several chess 
matches take place, while someone is 
always curled up somewhere with a book. 
Some student comments follow:
The Skibo platform:
“Encourages hanging out” (senior) 
“Should have an art gallery for showing 
permanent exhibits, else the walls will look 
boring.”
“Is like a jungle gym or a playground. 
The two holes (in the large platform) are 
either coffins or bathtubs-one family sized 
and one personal.” (freshman)
“Shows the similarity between man and 
monkey, because it is similar to the
monkey island at the zoo.”
“Hasno meaning; what’s the difference 1 
between this and a regular furnished room? 
It’s a waste.”
Most of these comments are favorable. 
Activities Director McCurdy, in an 
informal poll received similar results. The 
as-yet-unnamed platform areas are here to 
stay. Skibo lobby is open between 8 a.m. ( 
and 11:45 p.m. every day.
Give a pint- sized 
gift.GiveBlood.
+
ThiAMrknMCtoH
the good neighbor.
^ ^ Sears .
of Typewriters 
. Adding Machines . Shelving
Some Reconditioned • Some Display Models • All Guaranteed 
Hurry — Quantities Limited — First Come, First Served
"Power 12" Electric Type­
writer has touch settings, 
power return, 12-in. car­
riage, pica type, carrying 
case.
Price New__ .......$219.99
Reconditioned Price
Recond. Price
$154.49 Forecast 12" elee., pica........... 124.88
$189.99 Celebrity 12" elee., pica.............159.88
$249.95 Medalist 12" elee., pica .............199.88
"Malibu 10" Manual Type­
writer is a full-size port­
able. It has an 88 charac­
ter keyboard. Standard 
pica type.
Price New ..............$69.99
Recond. Price
$37.88 Sears manual, pica 27.88
$49.99 Malibu manual, elite 29.99
$49.99 Chevron manual, pica 34.88
$89.99 Newport manual, pica ................59.88
Reconditioned Price
10 to 30% OFF • Shelving Units • Pole Shelving
• Wall Shelving '• Flóor Model DeskántT’CKáirs'SEARS, ROEBUCK AND CO.
Electric Multiplier Adder 
multiplies automatically.
Carries credit balance, Reconditioned Price
codes entries.
Price New........,...$139.95
Recond. Prie»
$99.95 Sears "910"
Electric Credit Balance Adder— 59.95
ALLEGHENY CENTER MALL
*tfceHeon Easy Payment iHan' •***—4

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973—Page 9
Weber: Working Dean
by Sandy Como
In an interview with the TARTAN, Ar­
nold B. Weber spoke about the significance 
of the provost system and his dual roles as 
Dean of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration and provost over GSIA, 
School of Urban and Public Affairs, and 
the college of Humanities and Social 
Sciences.
Weber stated that he currently antici­
pates no trouble in dividing his time be­
tween acting as dean of GSIA and as pro­
vost, but he stressed that the first claim on 
his attention is familiarizing himself with 
GSIA and keeping it at its high standard of 
excellence. He views his first weeks here as
and Provost
programs which will benefit, others will 
not. This doesn’t mean the people in those 
programs won’t be able to do their own
H&bs.
Says Weber, “It should be clear that I 
don’t conceive of my role as substituting 
my judgement for that of the deans, but 
rather in this way to take an area of com­
parative activity and work with budget, 
personnel, and programming.”
Under their present grouping, it is clear 
that GSIA and SUPA have common goals 
in,the fields of economics, political science, 
sociology, and management; however, the 
college of H&SS does not appear to share 
them. Weber doubts that a regrouping of 
the colleges among him and Dr. Schatz 
would prove profitable, saying there would 
be elements of arbitrariness in any case. 
“On Schatz’s side you have CIT and MIS 
which are, of course, related, and then 
there is the college of Fine Arts. I think 
GSIA, SUPA and H&SS are a good group, 
recognizing that there are certain areas 
which are less concerned with what I’m 
doing.”
While Weber continued to affirm that 
the humanists will not lose anything in the 
relationship between the colleges, he also 
pointed out that they are not likely to gain 
much, either. He said, “There are certain
things or will be denied resources.
For instance, the history department of 
H&SS wants to engage a professor in eco­
nomic history, an area in which GSIA is 
interested. Funds would not normally be 
accessible to hire a man in such a special­
ized field. However, Weber is in such a 
position that he couM help coordinate 
resources to hire such a person.
Weber, a labor economist, served as a 
member of President Ni;:on’s Pay Board 
until its disbandment last January. He also 
served as Executive Directo»- of the Cost of 
Living Council until October 1971 when he 
resigned to become a member of the Pay 
Board and to return to teaching at the 
University of Chicago. Dr. Weber explained 
that he is no longer involved with current 
economic policy issues in Washington; he 
pointed out that he has not served in an 
official capacity there since January. He 
still talks with people there, and from time 
to time goes back to Washington for an 
informal consultation.
New Staff News
With the beginning of the fall semester, 
the TARTAN has announced the creation 
of two new administrative positions to be 
added to its editorial board.
The post of administrative editor will be 
filled by Chris Infante. She will be respon­
sible for the efficient day to day operation 
of the newspaper and will act as “chief of 
staff.”
Gary Singer, who has been news editor 
for one semester, will assume the post of 
managing editor. He will work closely with 
the news and features editors and supervise 
the operation of the news-features staff. He 
will also carry a number of unspecified 
responsibilities.
According to editor-in-chief, Steve 
Saunders, the posts were created in order 
to “create a more efficient chain of respon­
sibility that will allow the editors time to 
work on improving the quality of writing 
in the paper and also keep their sanity.”
Replacing Singer as news editor is Steve 
Correll. The other members of the editorial 
board are: Shelley Burhans, features editor; 
Sue Klein, entertainment editor; Jeff 
Englund, sports editor; Ed Levine and 
Elliot Arons, photo editors; Dwayne 
Smalls, business manager; and Debbie 
Siegel, head reporter.
Woman Dean For CIT
Arnold Weber left the Nixon Administration last 
January and was summarily appointed Provost 
over GSIA, SUPA and H&SS.
a period of orientation and “a time during 
which I’ll be thinking about the develop­
ment of more extensive programs.”
The responsibilities of provost remain 
largely self-defined. Weber sees his role as 
one of general responsibility. As dean of 
GSIA he will continue to fulfill the neces­
sary duties, but he believes that it is not his 
option to manage SUPA or the college of
by Sharon Curdo
Helen O’Bannon was named Assistant 
Dean of CIT early this summer, replacing 
the retired Carl Monrad. She will work in 
conjunction with Dean Toor of CIT on 
budgets and fiscal management in the Col­
lege of Engineering. Dean O’Bannon, a 
graduate of Wellesley College, earned her 
M.A. in economics at Stanford University. 
She has taught economics at Robert Morris 
College, published a text on money and 
banking, and has worked as a research and 
fiscal economist for the Banking and Cur­
rency Committee of the U.S. House of 
Representatives, for the Office of Tax An­
alysis in the U.S. Department of the Treas-
ury, and for the Office of the Controller of 
the Currency.
Asked why an economist was appointed 
to help run the college of engineering, Dr. 
Schatz, Provost of CIT, MIS and CFA, ex­
plained that Ms. O’Bannon will not deal 
directly with curriculum or policy. “Her 
function is in administration work in CIT,” 
he said. “She will be concerned a great deal 
with budgetary rather than academic and 
research matters. She is very qualified on 
thé basis of the work she is doing.”
Dean O’Bannon will assess and direct 
CIT’s budget, administer the college’s pol­
icy concerning graduate students, and rep­
resent CIT in the centralized councils of 
both CIT and MIS. She intends to control
the rate of financial expenditure within the 
engineering college with an awareness of 
how the flow of funds affects the entire 
university. To insure CIT’s financial health, 
Dean O’Bannon stresses long term fiscal 
planning and income research in addition 
to the customary efforts to secure and al­
locate grants.
Ms. O’Bannon favors a systems ap­
proach and feels that better management 
will enable CMU to accomodate and in­
struct the maximum number of both grad-
Is stealing alongdistance call worth ^^a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It's stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine of up to $15,000
¦ Up to seven years in jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark.
Q5) Bell of Pennsylvania
-1-- *
Dean O'Bannon, CIT’s only female administrator, 
considers her hiring "an example of the admini­
stration's open-door policy toward qualified 
women."
uate and undergraduate students without 
affecting either the academic standards or 
the quality of education. Ms. O'Bannon 
remarked that CMU contains no “top-level 
deadweight” but that a better information 
system between the colleges is needed.
An avid proponent of equal opportuni­
ties for women, Ms. O’Bannon views her 
position as the only woman administrator 
in CIT as an example of the university’s 
“open door” policy toward qualified 
women. Dean O’Bannon hopes to initiate a 
“quantitive studies summer program” here 
for female graduates of liberal arts colleges 
who want to acquire a mathematical back­
ground to attend either a business or 
science graduate school. During the last 
week of September Dean O’Bannon will 
conduct a seminar to introduce high school 
women to professional women presently 
engaged in these fields, ,. , ,,
» * * memrm « «

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973
Problems, Anyone?
by David Bush
The Math Club would like to announce 
itself to the students at Carnegie, many of 
whom may not know that such a club 
could exist. Well, we do and some of the 
things we do are to solve various problems, 
such as this one: (Answer next week.)
A two-person game resembling nim is 
played using the following figure:
A move consists of drawing a straight 
line segment on the figure which crosses at 
least one of the nine small equilatera] 
triangles which has not been crossed 
before. To ‘cross’ a triangle, the line 
segment must divide the triangle into two 
areas; i.e. touching the edge of a triangle is 
not sufficient to cross it. On your move 
you may cross triangles which were crossed 
before, as long as you also cross new ones 
The object is to cross the last of the nine 
triangles. With best play, who should win 
the first or second player?
Tuition
continued from page 1 
here.”
According to President Cyert, while he 
hated “like hell to have done it,”he 
believes that the $400 increase will “put us 
in the most comparable position to where 
we expect the competition to be in 73-74.” 
Cyert also stated that in the past, poor 
management allowed the physical plant to 
deteriorate in order to cut the budget and 
avoid a tuition increase. “People take the 
line of least resistance,” he said.
According to the Committee to Study 
Tuition commissioned by the President last 
February, tuition will remain competitive. 
“We assume that if the monetary 
differential (tuition less aid) between CMU 
and its competition should remain constant 
(after correcting for general inflation) so 
also will our entering class.” Noteworthy is 
the committee’s list of CMU’s major 
competitors (Note: listed tuitions are for 
the 73-74 scholastic year): Cornell-3,180, 
MIT-3,220. RPI-2,830 Syracuse-2,880.
Boston-2,690, Princeton-3,300, 
Case-2,600, Lehigh-2,850, Penn.-3,150, U. 
Rochester-3,125, R.I.S.D.-2,755, Washing­
ton U.-2,650. The three public competitors 
are Pitt at 1,000, Penn State-855 and 
finally SUNY at 650.
The Committee’s report further states 
that a growing lesion between private and 
publically financed universities threatens 
CMU. Competing with area public 
universities has become increasingly 
difficult. Consequently, an aid policy was 
developed to “maintain our relative 
attractiveness.”
fteadent Cyert sees a grim future for most 
private higher education, yet he stated that 
“no private university will be able to 
compete without a change in the policy of 
the states. The states have to face up to the 
fact that they can’t and shouldn’t continue 
to subsidize tuition heavily in the public 
universities. What they should do is raise 
tuition in the Public Universities and have a 
good scholarship program for the students 
who cannot afford to pay full tuition. This 
will enable those students to go where ever 
they want to school. But the state contri­
bution to the public universities should be 
only in the same proportion that endow­
ments is for a private university. The myth 
is that public universities are there to 
support the poor. In fact, they don’t. They 
tax the poor to support the middle class.” 
The committee investigated various 
tuition plans before arriving at the single 
tuition increase across the board. Consi­
deration was given to: (1) a proposal to 
vary tuition across college; (2) from under­
graduate to graduate; and (3) across class 
levels. Each of these proposals would work 
in relative supply-demand relationships. 
Also investigated were (4) a guaranteed 
tuition plan where students would pay the 
same tuition for the full time that they are 
at CMU, and (5) a more flexible financial 
aid program.
Students should anticipate continuing 
increases in thé cost of their education. 
CMU must wrestle with the malignancy 
threatening the existence of private 
universities in general. For now they can 
only hope that prices will stabilize and that 
the University will be successful in its 
pursuit of alternative sources of income.
Letters:
continued from page 2
other colleges in the Eastern section of the 
nation, to ask support for this intensely 
ethical woman. The legal defense group 
needs hard cash as fast as it can get it. 
Please send what you can-and with the 
littlest possible delay-to this address: Nan 
Pendrell Defense Fund, Chatham College, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232.
In struggle, 
Jonathan Kozol
An Opei) Letter to all Freshmen:
Perhaps you have noticed that there is
an organization on this campus knqwn as 
the Student Senate. If you are familiar 
with this organization and its activities, 
then you might consider running for 
election to this body. If you’ve decided 
that you’ll “never have a chance, being a 
freshman,” stop for a moment and 
consider:
Last year, one senator was elected with 
two votes.
Admittedly, this is a rare case, but the 
fact remains: it is possible for you to 
become a senator.
O.K., Upperclassmen. Prove me wrong.
Dave Weintraub
TARTAN
Jt ins Awards
Last June the 1973 results of two major 
college journalism competitions were made 
public, showing C-MU’s TARTAN as a 
winner of a total of twelve awards in the 
categories of News-Features, Features, 
Columns, Reviews and Editorial Writing, as 
well as Art and Photography.
In a nationwide contest sponsored by 
St. Bonaventure University, the TARTAN 
received an honorable mention, and politi­
cal cartoonist Jimmy Margulies won an 
Award of Excellence, which is the highest 
awajd possible.
Other winners of honorable mentions in 
the St. Bonaventure contest included: 
Glenn Campbell, for column writing; 
Shelley Burhans, for features writing; and 
Joan McCluskey, for features writing.
The results of the Pitt-Duquesne Press 
Association Collegiate Press Competition 
showed the TARTAN winner of seven 
awards.
Features editor, Shelley Burhans, took 
second place in the news-features category. 
Other second place award winners were 
Frederick Gormley for reviews, and Craig 
Collins for cartoons. TARTAN third place 
winners were Stephen Saunders for 
editorials, Craig Collins for columns, Ed 
Levine for photography and Jim Margulies 
for cartoons.
More than 150 entries were received in 
all categories combined (News-features. 
News, Features, Columns, Photography, 
Sports, Reviews, and Art) in the Pitt- 
Duquesne Press Association competition. 
More than two hundred colleges and 
universities nationwide participated in the 
St. Bonaventure University contest.
Editor-in-Chief Steve Saunders stated 
that he felt “gratified”, but “hoped that 
we Qould do better next year.”
IT’S MORE THAN $100 A MONTHMost young men & women don't participate in Army ROTC just for the $100 a month they earn during their last two years of college.The real reason is what Army ROTC leader­ship development will do for them in any career
they choose.You might decide to stay with the Army. Up ahead you can see more responsibility. Greater 
authority.Or you might decide on a civilian career. In business - industry - the professions - or maybe 
politics.Your experience gives you the assurance, 
the self-confidence that commands respect.Army ROTC. The more you look at it, the 
better it looks.Army ROTCCarnegie-Mellon University 
Room 203 Gymnasium
621-2600 Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973— Page 11
Parking
continued from page 1
widespread opinion that a parking shortage 
will occur. First of all, at the beginning of 
the semester many more students than 
ejected brought cars, according to 
T «lor. Secondly, a pre-registration for 
p. king permits for faculty and staff was 
1 '1 and the anticipated metering of Frew
et increased the number of applicants, 
i addition, up to Friday, September 14, 
l> t year’s permits were still being honored 
aad this may have caused an overload on 
the parking areas. These factors combined 
to create a higher demand than the parking 
committee anticipated when it set fees. 
Too many people applied for the most 
popular lots, and Security was forced to 
award spaces on the basis of seniority. A 
multitude of complaints resulted. Two top 
administrators, Provost Arnold Weber and 
Dean Midani of the College of Fine Arts, 
initially did not receive spaces in the lots 
they requested.
Taylor said he feels the prices, rather 
than the system, are at fault. But he added 
that a system based on distance from
campus would be more equitable but
harder to administer. He also added that 
perhaps the most equitable system would 
be one based on both seniority and
distance.
One source of bad feeling among
parking applicants was the refusal by 
Security to sell permits to several freshmen 
during registration. However, Taylor ex­
plained to the TARTAN that during that 
registration he wanted to stop and see how 
heavy the demand was before any more 
tickets were sold. He claims that some of 
his employees got confused and for about a 
half hour were telling people that the lots
were full when they were not. In any case, 
both Taylor and Operations’ Harry Rowell 
assured the TARTAN that this situation 
was indeed a mistake. They further stated 
that all the other applications were 
received and honored and for those who 
still wish to apply, permits are available.
A second cause of complaint among 
commuters and automobile owners on 
campus was the city’s plan to meter 
Margaret Morrison, Tech and Frew Streets. 
Originally, the city intended to meter all 
three streets. However, after some hard 
bargaining by Rowell and, eventually, by 
President Cyert, the city decided to drop 
the metering of Margaret Morrison Street, 
and meter only part of Tech Street with 
some short term meters. Frew Street will 
still be metered since it foreseeably could 
be used by commuters at Pitt.
The current plan would meter the left 
side of Tech Street with a two hour limit. 
Frew Street, however, will employ meters 
with both short and long time limits: Four 
hour meters on the Schenley Park side of 
the street, ten hour meters on the campus 
side from Tech Street to the Library, two 
hour meters from the Library to Baker Hall 
Post Office, and ten hour meters from 
there to Scaife Hall.
The rates on the ten hour meters will be 
either five cents per hour or ten cents per 
hour. The rates for the two hour meters are 
not yet set, although the twenty-five cents 
per hour rate on the two hour meters 
already installed in Skibo lot may serve as a 
guideline.
Nevertheless, the meters on Tech Street 
are only partially completed and work has 
yet to begin on Frew Street. In fact, 
despite an initial rush to complete the 
metering before the fall semester, the city 
has not done anything since classes began..
B’NAI B’RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
ANNOUNCES; FALL LUNCHEON -LECTURE SERIES PERSPECTIVES ON THE JEWS OF EASTERN EUROPE
(A Series of Six Discussions To Cover Various Phases of the 
Life and Death of East European Jewry Since the 16th Century)
September 24The Setting - Professor Bernard Weiss 
Duquesne University
October 1The Aftermath of the Holocaust
Professor Milton Sussman 
Duquesne University
'October 8The Life-Style - Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director 
B nai B 'rith Hillel 
Jewish University Center
October 15The East European Roots of Education
Professor Henry Hausdorf 
University of Pittsburgh
October 22The Communist Phase
Professor Michelle Roubelov 
University of Pittsburgh
October 29The Contemporary Russian Scene
Dr. Jerome Rosenberg 
Dean of Faculty, 
University of Pittsburgh
LOCATION:B 'nai B'rith Hillel Library, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue
(Opposite Heinz Chapel)
TIME:Six Mondays at Noon
COST:.. 75 for lunch
Financial Aid 
To Increase
by Tom Kendig
Approximately 50% of Carnegie-Mellon 
University’s student population relies on 
the financial aid office for some part of 
their educational financing with a large 
majority of the other 50% wishing they 
did. This makes the tuition hike of $400, 
or $600 if you live and eat on campus, an 
especially important and pressing problem. 
If presently on financial aid, who gets 
caught with the added expenses, you the 
student or your friends at Warner Hall 
215?
Before a look is taken at the situation 
next year it might be good to take a look 
at how the present system works. John 
Hines, the Director of Financial Aid, 
explained to the TARTAN that the student 
presently has four different major options 
from which to receive aid. The University 
has its own funds it can allocate, part of it 
from grants and endowments to the uni­
versity and part is allocated in the annual 
university budget. Another source of aid is 
the different Federal Goverment programs. 
These include the National Direct Student 
Loan (formerly the National Defense 
Loan) and the Education Opportunity 
Grant programs which give funds for the 
university to allocate. For Pennsylvania 
students there is also the Pennsylvania 
Higher Education Assistance Agency 
(PHEAA) which gives scholarships to 
Pennsylvania residents going to Pennsyl­
vania schools. This year the government 
cut funds to the National Direct Programs 
and started a new program, the State 
Guaranteed Loan, which allows the student
to apply for direct government support.
Hines also explained the university’s 
new system for allocating its own funds. 
Each application for aid is individually 
examined. The student’s assets are totaled 
(these include parental contributions and 
money from savings and summer jobs) and 
his financial need is calculated from the 
difference between these assets and the 
costs he will incur. The university then 
decided what fraction of the student’s aid 
will be given as a loan and what portion as 
a scholarship or grant. This is determined 
from a student’s Quality Point Average, the 
student’s participation in activities, and the 
amount of aid formerly received.
The important question concerning how 
will the tuition hike affect the students 
presently on aid was posed to both John 
Hines and William Elliot, Director o: 
Admissions. It is obvious that the financial 
aid office will need additional funds to 
compensate for the tuition hike. According 
to the sources this money wil be drawn 
from the university’s grants and endow­
ments as well as received from additional 
funds from the university budget. If these 
funds are not sufficient, the university will 
institute its own loan program from any 
additional moneys it can obtain. These 
university loans would be equivalent to the 
present State Guaranteed Loan Program.
According to Bill Elliot the money for 
the increased tuition costs will be made 
available. Present aid should rise in direct 
proportion to the rise in costs for the stu­
dents presently on financial aid. As 
President Richard Cyert put it, “I am 
determined to make every effort to offer 
financial aid in a combination of scholar­
ships, loans, and jobs, sufficient so that no 
student who is qualified and wants to 
attend this university will be kept from 
doing so because of finances.”___________
Vandalism
continued from page 3
vandalism by destroying the poster before 
they could!
ine question might be viewed from 
another perspective: Why does the designer 
(and eventually the A.B.) bother to con­
sider aesthetics which reach beyond the 
intention of information? A typographical 
announcement would suffice but the 
public would lose the poster as an art form. 
For example, in Europe the poster as a 
.form of communication is also viewed as
dii aii luiiu wi iu^Ji dCMiieiit. quality oy lilt- 
general public. With such renowned artists 
as Toulouse-Lautrec and Pablo Picasso, the 
poster has become a viable means of 
communicating art. In America, however. I 
have regretfully observed a bastardized 
version of “the poster” which has become 
a “blow-up” of Racquel Welch! My wish is 
to bridge the widening gap between these 
two “traditions” and perpetuate the 
standards of appreciation originally set for 
the poster as an art form, as well as to 
enhance the enjoyment of this minimally- 
tapped form of art ... . “the poster”.
HAPPENINGS AT 
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Y-IKC - 315 S. Bellefield - 3rd floor - (Across from Heinz (hapel)
CAFE TEL AVIV - begins, Tuesday, September 18. 11:30a.m. - 1:30p.m. 
Lunch servedMonday-Thursday weekly 
LOCATION: Hillel Dining Room. 3rd floor
INTERCULTURAL HOUSE SEMINAR - Thursday. Sept. 20, 7:30p.m.
“JEWS AND BLACKS”
NOTE LOCA TION: 272 N. Dithridge Street
STUDENT-FACULTY SABBATH - Friday September 21.
WORSHIP - 6:30p.m. - Rogal Roon\, 2nd floor, Y-IKC 
DINNER - 7:15p.m. * Hillel Library, 3rd floor 
FACULTY DISCUSSION LEADER - Professor 
Jonathan Levine, University of Pittsburgh
(Dinner by'Heservation, $2.75 - 621-8875)
STUDENT-FACULTY MIXER - Sunday, September 23, 2 - 4 P.M. '' ,
Refreshments. Meet Faculty Members on an informal 
basis
LOCATION: Skibo - Faculty Dining Room

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973
We invited a few friends for dinner and they helped dean up the Genesee River.
With the aid of a few thousand pounds of microorga­
nisms, we’re helping to solve the water pollution problem in 
Rochester. Maybe the solution can help others.
What we did was to combine two processes in a way 
that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sys­
tems private industry has ever developed.
One process is called “activated sludge,” developed 
by man to accelerate nature’s microorganism adsorption. 
What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can 
produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will 
happily assimilate it. And thrive on it.
The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found 
a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling 
filter process and optimized the combination.
We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years.
( At Kodak, we were working on environmental improvement 
long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked 
so well, we built a ten-million-dollar plant that can purify 
36-million gallons of water a day.
Governor Rockefeller called this “the biggest volun­
tary project undertaken by private industry in support of 
New York State’s pure-water program.”
Why did we do it? Partly because we’re in business to 
make a profit—and clean water is vital to our business. But in 
furthering our own needs, we have helped further society’s. 
And our business depends on society.
We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will 
inspire others to do the same. And, we’d be happy to share 
our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean 
water. So we all have to work together.
Kodak
More than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973—Page 13
entertainrrient
Camera Obscura, a new theatre group, per­
forming "Oracles" last Saturday evening in Skibo 
Ballroom.
photo by Ed Levine
//iCamera Obscuraf
by Susan N. Klein
Probably the first production of the 
Pittsburgh theatre season of 73-74 took 
place about a week and a half ago in our 
very own Skibo Ballroom. To review this 
free, one-performance stint is admittedly 
“after the fact.” Of what consequence this 
criticism will be to the Camera Obscura 
group is entirely up to them; in any case 
they asked that their theatre piece be 
reviewed. Camera Obscura is, from what I 
gathered from the program notes, a theatre 
group which just formed this summer, 
having been funded by a “private grant,” 
and who intend to put what was seen in 
Skibo on an international tour. This is all 
delightfully ambitious; it’s always nice to 
have new theatre groups forming. Inciden­
tally, Camera Obscura includes mainly 
Carnegie-Mellon drama students on various 
levels of study.
Oracles is the name of the piece per­
formed last Saturday in Skibo, and it’s 
based on the story of Sophacles’ good 
friend Oedipus, who we’ve all grown to 
know and love, yes-indeedy. The Camera 
Obscura version of the legend is stark in 
concept and design, but the modern text is 
extremely well-written and the production 
involves more physical gymnastics than the 
Flying Wallendas. The in-the-round staging 
is smoothly executed, although 1 suppose 
the piece might be better suited to a
will later be pulled to opposite ends of the 
stage. The blackout is too long and the 
sequence isn’t particularly striking. The 
set-up, in fact, cancels the effect, and 
therefore the whole bit may as well be 
dropped or at least changed to a lights-up 
setup.
Perhaps the best scene in the play, the 
dinner scene, comes too near the end of 
the play to be fully appreciated. The scene 
is wonderfully constructed, witty and 
poignant; and it is a credit to Andy Wolk’s 
writing that the scene can probably be 
lifted and replaced earlier without 
hindering either the pace or the meaning of 
the play.
The cast varies from marvelously 
versatile to plain dull, depending sadly 
upon how much business the actors could 
think up for themselves while they weren’t 
speaking. This is especially important in a 
play where all the actors are onstage 
throughout most of the evening. An actor 
standing in a comer smoking a pipe for 
fifteen minutes is not, I’m afraid, totally 
fascinating, nor does it serve his or any 
other characterization. Susan Lange, as the 
retarded daughter Murcia, had some
brilliant moment« during an early mono­
logue given while her mother is bathing 
her. Anne Swift gave little depth to 
Jocasta, although her performance was 
steady and at times nicely strong. Liz 
Jamplis was a fine bitchy Ismene, but the 
Creon of Alan Erodossy went for little. 
Polynices and Eteocles were too blase in 
character to dissapate any believable 
tension between each other, so that their 
marvelously staged brawl comes off more 
like choreography than real feeling. 
Thomas Kopache as Oedipus, however, 
holds the production together with more 
cohesive, glowing energy than most pro­
fessional actors can hope to attain. He is 
dynamic both in physical ability and in his 
sensitivity to the gamuts of dominance and 
passivity that Oedipus must possess.
From an infant company. Oracles is an 
impressive debut creation, whose problems 
can be easily smoothed over. The 
company’s remote connection to La Mama 
ETC in New York is evident and greatly 
appreciated and refreshing in a city whose 
professional Theatre World consists of an 
unfortunately-named road company Barn 
and one half-dead Equity rep. company.
smaller playing area, as the huge ballroom 
tended to swallow up all but the better-li' 
actors. Moreover, the idea behind the 
piece, that of cycles, of “solving one 
mystery only to create another,” is finely 
illustrated by the round, sans proscenium 
staging.
Oracles is once again magnetically 
written; the structure of the play is neat, 
the speeches are at once simple yet 
eloquent, and the play never loses its pace 
or rhythm. And rhythm is so evident 
here--at the first appearance of the 
characters the pace is stated; double-time 
marching set to a hand drum, and it is 
reiterated by the ominous steel-sheet beats 
which hauntingly visit several times during 
the course of the evening. So much is 
happening out there, so much movement, 
as with most pieces staged by Franz 
Marijnen. (Why else would Oedipus spend 
so much of the early part of the play 
complaining about his feet?) The piece 
needs cutting, though; to hold all the story 
seams more tightly it must be shorter. At 
this point it’s too long not to have an act 
break, yet to include an act break would be 
disasterous to the play. The one blackout 
hangs as a painful, gaping burdent to the 
production. It serves to set up a ‘theatrick’ 
with wires attached to some props which

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18, 1973
2B’BN on ineaire
At this point there probably isn’t any­
thing to say about Godspell that you don’t 
already know. There’s a nice touring 
company at the Nixon Theatre right now, 
and if you haven’t already seen the hit 
musical it might be a good idea, since it’s 
well on its way to becoming a classic. The 
current production is joyful, sprightly, 
funny, all those adjectives; and it has a few 
new bits of business and schtick, plus that 
really pleasant Steve Schwartz score. 
Godspell will be running through this 
month, and if you’ve already seen it, see ii 
again, it can only be a treat. Anyway it’s 
ten times better than the movie.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will shortly be 
releasing their 73-74 schedule. The Play­
house is the only Equity Company in 
Western Pennsylvania, let alone being the 
only professional repertory company in 
Pittsburgh. There will be the customary 
special Student Subscription prices, as well 
as a new Student Rush Policy which will
operate thusly: one half hour before curtain 
time, the Playhouse will sell you any seats 
that aren’t sold for the special price of 
$3.00, as long as you have an ID card. It’s 
really a very nice deal, considering movie 
prices often get that high.
The first Playhouse production will be 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, which 
will open December 8th and run until 
December 30th. The rest of the Playhouse 
season goes something like this: either Our 
Town or The Front Page from January 12 
to February 3. George Feydeu’s A Flea in 
Her Ear from February 9 to March 3. This 
will be followed by The House of Blue 
Leaves from March 9 to March 31. The 
Crucible will be next, April 6 to April 28, 
and finally the musical The Boys From 
Syracuse from May 4 to June 9, if you’re 
still around. The quality of Playhouse pro­
ductions generally runs from the sublime 
to the ridiculous, but like everywhere else, 
this season certainly sounds promising. To 
order a Student Subscription, call the Play­
house box office at 621-4445.
Following Godspell the Nixon Theatre 
will house the touring company of Butley 
for one week, October 15 to the 20th. 
Brian Bedford, one of the most talented 
European actors we have the privilege to 
see, will have the title role, and he’s 
supposed to be every bit as convincing as 
Alan Bates was in London and New York. 
Butley is a fine drama and the opportunity 
to see it should not be missed. The Nixon 
Box Office number is 281-6773.
Performers are needed for an 
experimental theater laboratory workshop, 
focusing upon the use of multimedia 
artistic expression in social group work.
There is no charge, Former experience 
or training in either the arts or in therapy is 
useful, but not necessary. The group will 
meet for two 3-to-5 house sessions per 
week throughout the academic year, 
September until June. After preliminary 
training and explorations in the Fall, we 
will work with psychiatric out-patients 
during the Winter and Spring. The project 
will be supervised by professionals in 
mental health and in theater.
The workshop will be conducted by 
Franklyn Wepner (M.A., Music Education), 
who is presently enrolled in the Graduate 
School of Social Work, University of Pitts­
burgh. If you would like either further 
information or an interview, please call
Franklyn Wepner between 9 and 11 p.m. at
681-1019, or write to 745 South Millvale 
Ave., Pittsburgh, 15213. It is likely that 
the group will be fully formed by the end 
of September 1973.
McKeesport Little Theater opens 
another exciting season on September 21 
with Promises, Promisess Subsequent 
performances will be held on September
22, 23, 28, 29, 30, October 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 
and 13 at 8:30 p.m. For reservations call 
the box office at 673-1100. Ticket prices 
are $3.00 per seat.
Our own Drama Department has in 
rehearsal its first mainstage production, 
Does A Tiger Wear a Necktie? which 
starred Hal Holbrook and A1 Pacino in its 
off-Broadway production in 1969. Other 
productions on the Drama Department 
Mainstage schedule are; The Threepenny 
Opera, Romeo and Juliet, and House of 
Blue Leaves, despite the fact that the Play­
house will do it before the Drama 
Department. And to think that John Guare 
is sitting behind a typewriter somewhere, 
totally unaware that the city of Pittsburgh 
is paying him such tribute. Ah, Show- 
Biz .... Anyway, Does a Tiger Wear a 
Necktie? will run from October 11 th to 
October 20th; check the Fine Arts lobby 
bulletin board for ticket information.
—SNK-
The Big Bite
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
It’s called the big bite cause it’s going to have something to do with food. It 
would have had something to do with movies but I figure you probably eat more than 
you movie and I eat more than you eat and movie together so it’s reasonable to stick 
with food for now.
Firstly, all of last week there were mimeographed signs around and about 
advertising study breaks at our various fraternity houses. Most of you probably have 
never seen the inside of a fraternity house. It’s nothing special except for a series of 
men eating ass. In the case of a study break, freshman ass. It’s a real fine and nice thing 
for the frats to do, to give away free food, but they do it too early in the evening.
A truly inspiring study break comes at 1 or 2 in the morning and with Skibo 
closed (if you’re on campus) and the fraternities all tucked in for the night, Pittsburgh 
presents you with a problem. This is where your creativity spawns. My creativity and 
that of two flunkies of mine took me downtown the other night to a place called the 
Hi-Boy. I think its full title is House of the Hi-Boy and there are a whole bunch of 
them in the downtown area. This was the only one open at night though.
A Hi-Boy is a hamburger. In fact, it’s two hamburgers divided by three pieces of 
bread, some cheese and Mrs. Hi-Boy’s secret sauce. The secret sauce has a lot of 
watered down mayonnaise and the bread (rolls) has a lot of onion seeds. I must 
confess though that I didn’t go to the Hi-Boy to eat as much as I went to see what 
downtown Pittsburgh nightlife is like. It’s loaded with gay hustlers and transvestite 
prostitutes. Also regular old prostitutes, one of which got slugged during a sip of 
chocolate thick shake (not hers, they make terrific chocolate thick shakes for the 
middle of the night). This real loser of a pimp gave it to her and told her something 
like “I have my ways of finding out” and she looked like she was going to cry and the 
pimp had some other lady in waiting with him who was wearing sunglasses. I can never 
know why people wear sunglasses at night. Also, they make pretty good coffee. The 
waitress had rhinestone butterflies in her hair and there was this terrificly large 
man-woman whore who resembled Rosey Grier running in and out saying the cops are 
right out there to some flaming queer who kept looking at my friends. Also I don’t 
know what a Hi-Boy cost but a chocolate thick shake and a coffee and a Hi-Boy with 
tax totalled $1.59. I don’t think there was any soybean filler in the meat. Not bad, 
with good service, clean facilities, fair food and superb entertainment. If you are 
equipped to get there and hungry enough to bother, I think it’s on Liberty Avenue. 
You’re bound to find it. The only other place open is the Continental Trailways lunch 
room.
In the other direction, towards East Liberty is Ritters Diner, also open real late 
(24 hours it seems). I’ve never seen it in the daytime but I know that there is a used 
car lot right near by. It looks like a truckdrivers diner you see in the movies. It 
probably is cause I can’t imagine all the people that were there at 5:45 a.m. being early 
risers. It’s a real nice place with jukeboxes on the table that have songs like “I’ve 
Flushed You Out of the Bathroom of My Heart” and very bright lights and waitresses 
with dyed orange hair. I had good scrambled eggs there except that they were plopped 
down in the middle of a big white plate which made it seem like army rations, but 
somewhere along the line orange hair remembered to bring the toast so that took up 
space. It is so clean in that place! Everyone who walked in knew everyone else by 
name. Their hamburgers bypass the Hi-Boy burgers but it’s a reverse atmosphere. Also 
the orange juice is real fine. Ritters is much closer to the campus area than Hi-boy’s. It 
only takes 15 minutes to walk there. It’s on Baum Boulevard. You walk down 
Morewood til you hit the street with the wheelchair store and then you turn right. It’s 
real good and cheap. Go to Ritters before you hit the Hi-Boy. It’ll warm you up.
Also, somewhere in Germany last week a guy went into a bank and told some 
teller he wanted all the dough. She said to him, “We don’t have any,” so he shrugged 
his shoulders and walked out.
SHADYSIDE
1 f 
::
5430 CENTER AVE.
HALF A BLOCK FROM SHADYSIDE HOSPITAL
OPEN 9:00 A.M. to 9:30 P.M.
MONDAY thru SATURDAY
FOR YOtIR CONVENIENCE 
WE ME ALSO OPEN SUNDIV 9 Ml to 6 PM

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973—Page 15
(he concert /cene
The season's first concert took .place last 
Saturday on Flagstaff in Schenley Park. It was a 
fine bash, a fine day and the good feelings were 
heightened by the fresh, juicey music played by 
Estus and Buzzy "You Got to Have Friends" 
Linhart.
photo by Ed Levine
Ife I — issue the Oakland 
is now? on sale cct
CMU BooWs-tore €
Skibo In^Drma+ion Desk,
T^oe-try , Short Fiction £ Drama, ,
~Rgyievw>s f HPhotc^rraphs € Letrs:’e2S 
fblaclt £ vohrte) are noW bein^r accepted 
-for -the next issue — Fall j3• Submit 
m (Xr\osCJT i p“t & *to
Oakland Mailbox
OffiCC-2nd floor BH
Or mail to
Oakland Re\?iew 
c/o (Jeorg-e EvartS 
TO Box 73JfP^Pgh.T^xJJZl^ 
Ms. must include return posrfce^re .

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 18“, 1973Exciting Grid Team PAC Title
by Regis J. Ebner
For the first time in many years, 
Carnegie-Mellon head coach Joe Gasparella 
finds himself in the pleasant position of 
having most of his regulars being pushed 
for jobs in pre-season practice.
At quarterback, senior Ron Shinault 
who took over the signal calling duties in 
mid-season last year, “would start if we 
opened the season tomorrow” according to 
Gasparella, but he is getting strong com­
petition from two former WPIAL stand­
outs, Ted Harhai of Monessen and Jay 
Duquette of Franklin Regional. The C-MU 
head coach currently rates his two fresh­
men quarterbacks at “about even” and 
concedes that if Shinault is needed badly at 
his old defensive halfback spot, where he 
excelled for two seasons, either Harhai or 
Duquette could become a regular, given 
continued improvement.
Another three-way battle is taking place 
at tight end. Junior lettermen Dan Maletic 
did not return, and three first year players, 
all of whom have looked good in pre­
season drills, are battling for the spot. Brad 
Punko, 6’1”, 205 pounder from Benilde 
High School, Golden Valley, Minnesota; 
Dick Schademan, 5’10”, 180 pounds from 
Bethel Park, and Tom Trainor, 6’5”, 208 
pounds from Moon Area are expected to 
provide depth at that spot.
Veteran Brian Carlock, All-PAC choice 
last season, and co-captain has earned the 
split end post with two freshmen, Bruce. 
Bickar, 5’9”, 175 from Bethel Park, and 
Ted Crandall, 5’10”, 170, from Gatewa) 
battling for the flanker position. It is ex­
pected that those three will move in and 
out of the wide receiver positions this year. 
Veterans Jim Stupar, a 6’4”, 205 pound 
junior from Munhall, and Marty Gannon, 
6’3”, 205, from South Hills Catholic will 
probably start at offensive tackles. 
However transfer Rod Jurkiewicz, a 6’1”, 
205 pound senior from Norwin High 
School, and freshman Ray Moncini, 6’, 215 
pounds from Monessen are pushing for 
starting spots.
At guards, lettermen John Moore, a 
5’11” 195 pound senior from Laurel
Valley High School, and Tom Loughran, a 
5’11”, 180 pound junior from Central 
Catholic appear to have the starting jobs 
won. Freshman Boli Baran, 6’, 190
pounder also from Central Catholic will see 
action and another Central Catholic fresh­
man, Nick Redondo, 5’11”, 205 pounds is 
battling hard with junior John Slava, 6’3”, 
205 for the starting center slot.
First year man Rudy Woodhouse, a 
5’10”, 195 pound guard from Bethel Park, 
also may challenge for a starting berth. 
Woodhouse looked good before suffering a 
shoulder separation which could keep him 
out of practice for about three weeks.
Two veterans return at running backs. 
Junior speedster Bob Curtis from Monaco, 
who gained 546 yards on 130 carries, and 
senior John Radic who doubled on defense 
last season, but has looked outstanding on 
offense in early drills. Dick West, a 5’8”,
170 pound running back from Gateway has 
also been very impressive and will un­
doubtedly see action for the Tartans. Two 
other freshmen, Pat Counihan, 5’9”, 175 
from Bethel Park, and Gary Bonn,/ 
6’1”,195 from Rockland, Mass., and 
veteran Terry Tiberio, 5’8”, 175, give 
Gasparella adequate depth.
Defensively, veterans Stan Nye, a 6’, 
205 pound end, Bob Pyzdrowski, a 6’3”, 
200 pound junior end, and Phil LaGatta, a 
6’, 215 pound junior tackle seem to have 
earned starting jobs. The other defensive 
tackle slot is currently being fought for by 
yet another Central Catholic grad, Joe 
Loughran, 6’2”, 200 pound freshman, who 
is offensive guard Tom Loughran’s brother, 
and Calvin Scott, a 6’, 230 pound first year 
player from St. John’s in Washington, D.C.
Mike Bralkowski, a 6’2”, 210 pound 
three-year letter winner and co-captain 
from Beaver area should start at middle 
linebacker, with Bill Reppa, a 6’, 185 
pound sophomore, who came on strong 
near the end of last season, and Mark 
Balent, a 6’2”, 195 pound sophomore from 
Munhall ahead in the outside linebacking 
fight. Doug Danko and Doug Goimarac,
Seeks
two freshmen linebackers from Moon Area 
and Monessen respectively, have shown 
great improvement in pre-season drills and 
could force someone out of a starting job. 
Danko is 6’, 200 pounds and Goimarac is 
5’11’, 195. A pre-season surprise is senior 
Clyde Ligons who has looked good at the 
middle linebacking spot. However, there is 
currently a question before the PAC on 
Ligons’ eligibility, and Gasparella isn’t sure 
whether or not he’ll play.
The defensive backfield will probably be 
composed of two freshmen and two 
veterans. Bill Vukoder, a 5’10”, 180 pound 
senior from Upper St. Clair, and Bob Scott, 
5’9”, 175, from Peabody, will probably be 
joined by Mike Haupt, 5*11’, 170, but has 
been outstanding in practice. Goffi is from 
West Mifflin South. If either Harhai or 
Duquette come on strong, Ron Shinault 
could move into a starting defensive spot.
The Tartans seem to have more overall 
depth than they have had in some time 
although there is still an obvious lack of 
depth in the defensive line and in the 
secondary. And when the depth is mainly 
provided by freshmen without game ex­
perience, it is at best an unknown quantity.
Gasparella has no doubt that this year’s 
crop of freshmen will develop into fine 
players. The question remains as to 
whether or not they will develop quickly 
enough to give him what he needs in 1973.
Recruiting Results Look Promising
by Jim Litsas
There were rumors spreading about the 
’73 Tartan football team long ago; the 
excitement was in the air even last year. By 
now, still- more than a week from the first 
game of the season, most everyone knows 
that the rumors were not just fleeting 
hopes.
Head coach Joe Gasparella, offensive 
line coach Ed Fay and defense coaches Ed 
Mervos and Rudy Yaksich have tried to put 
together one of the finest teams ever to 
play at C-MU. This year’s team consists of 
about 60 players-a substantial increase 
from last year’s team of about 35. Most of
this increase is due to the large number of 
freshmen on the club-nearly 40 in all. Not 
only are the freshmen members of the 
team numerous; Coach Gasparella assures 
that they are the finest looking freshmen 
group he’s seen at C-MU in his 12 years of 
coaching here.
Obviously it wasn’t by chance that some 
of the best football players in the Pitts­
burgh area decided to come to C-MU. The 
coaching staff worked hard last year 
recruiting potential C-MU applicants-high 
school seniors who could carry the work 
load demanded by C-MU, and who were 
talented athletes to boot. As a result, 
nearly 40 freshmen ballplayers are now on
campus. But why the sudden emphasis on 
football?
It probably started when President 
Cyert came to C-MU and displayed a great 
interest in the sports program. This and a 
few other factors helped get the Tartans 
into the President’s Athletic Conference. In 
Coach Gasparella’s view, this was one of 
the smartest moves made at C-MU. Thus 
there is a new emphasis on sports in general 
here at C-MU.
The team itself began practicing a week 
before school started. Their first (and only) 
scrimmage was with California State on 
September 8. The coaches were apparently 
well pleased with the team’s performance
so early in the season. Though it’s still not 
completely determined who will play what, 
it’s certain that the team will consist of a 
great many young, untried players. If these 
freshmen decide to stay on for four years, 
then the Tartan football team might start a 
tradition of outstanding performances.
But of course, we can only surmise how 
effective the team will be this season. If the 
players’ excitement on the field is com­
plimented by enthusiasm in the stands, 
then the team will undoubtedly be more 
effective. Lack of enthusiasm would mean 
that all of the effort put into this year’s 
team was meant for only 60 guys, and the 
main purpose is ignored.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Tartan squad has doubled in size this year.
CMU PIRATES - METS BASEBALL 
TUES. SEPTEMBER L8 8 PM
PIRATES
RESERVED SEAT TICKETS - '3.00 
ON SALE AT THE 
SKIB0 INFORMATION DESK

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973-Page 17
Touch Football Starts
INTRAMURAL PROGRAM 
Activity
Touch Footbali
Tennis
Golf
Co-Rec Volleyball
Cross Country
Water Polo
Chess
Soccer
Volleyball
Bowling
Squash
Team Table Tennis 
3 Man Volleyball 
Basketball 
Bridge 
Handball 
Wrestling 
Water Basketball 
Table Tennis — Singles 
Table Tennis — Doubles 
Rifle 
Call Pool
Call Pool — Individual 
Co-Rec Badminton 
Foul Shooting 
Co-Rec Table Tennis 
Swimming 
Intramural Night 
Team Badminton 
Softball 
Fencing 
Archery 
Track
IM Season
Due DateRoster Requirements 
Min. Max.
Tues. Sept. 11, 1973715
Tues. Sept. 1148
Tues. Sept. 1148
Tues. Oct. 28 Men 8 Women
Tues. Oct. 2—OPEN—
Tues. Oct. 2510
Tues. Oct. 248
Tues. Oct. 16715
Tues. Oct. 16715
Tues. Oct. 16613
Tues. Oct. 1636
Tues. Oct. 1648
Tues. Nov. 1336
Tues. Jan. 15, 1974613
Tues. Jan. 1548
Tues. Jan. 15—OPEN —
Tues. Jan. 2948
Tues. Jan. 29510
Tues. Feb. 51
Tues. Feb. 52
Tues. Feb. 5510
Tues. Feb. 536
Tues. Feb. 191
Tues. Feb. 192
Tues. Feb. 19510
Tues. Feb. 192
Tues. Mar. 5—OPEN —
Fri. Mar. 8
Tues. Mar. 1248
Fri. Mar. 1S1123
Tues. Mar. 19—OPEN - -
Tues. Mar 19: —OPEN —
Tues. Apr. 16—OPEN--
Any group may enter a team by filling out the 
official roster sheet and returning it to the INTRA­
MURAL OFFICE on or before the due date listed 
above. All entries must be accompanied by a $2.50 
forfeit fee which will be returned at the end of the 
sports schedule providing the team appeared and 
was ready for the activity as scheduled. Equipment 
will be provided by the intramural Department 
including rules and regulations governing the activ-
ity. Teams may be formed by organizations, 
classes, floors, commuter groups, etc. — Anyone 
wishing to officiate games — contact Mr. Birdy 
Copies of the Carnegie Mellon Intramural Depart 
ment Constitution may be obtained in Room 
^104 in Gymnasium.
For further information contact Mr Birdy, Ext. 
412 — Intramural Director, or Ed Schenck, Presi 
dent of Intramural Board, 682 1474.
Help Wanted, Etc.Moses Big
by Mike Pochan
The I.M. football major league title is up 
for grabs this year as six of the teams 
exhibit enough potential for winning the 
championship. The quality of play should 
be quite excellent as many of last year’s 
outstanding players are returning. Each of 
them will undoubtedly play an important 
part in establishing the undisputed champ. 
Let’s take a quick look at each of the six 
teams to get an idea of their strong points.
The defending champion is PIKA, a 
team that relies on quickness. Last year, 
PIKA averaged 50 points per game on 
offense and allowed only 18 points per 
game on defense. This year, the big 
difference is the loss by graduation of the 
1972 MVP, Barry Benjamin. Hopefully, the 
new QB, Steve Rouch, can fill the void. 
Mike Wegener should be important, too, on 
both offense and defense.
Beta Theta Pi shows a definite finesse in 
the execution of its plays, and Jim 
Donnelly and Stan Smith, linebackers on 
the tough Beta defense, will probably 
repeat as all-school choices.
The Wild Bunch shows a lot of size and 
strength, along with some fancy plays. 
John Waites, offensive end, is one of the 
fastest in the league. Bob Atkinson is 
returning as center.
Phi Kappa Theta returns with speed 
demon Ernie Legg at end and defensive 
back. Speed coupled with strategy could be 
the right formula.
Although the Black Magics do not have 
any big name players, their special brand of 
tough football might be the key to the 
title.
SAE just might have the experience to 
surprise a couple of the other teams.
Two other teams should be in the 
league, but because they are independent 
no information is available on them.
It’s all there • quickness, size, strategy, 
finesse, experience, and determination. 
Now it is just a matter of who can put it all 
together.
Majors
National
Intermediate
East
ATO 
TDP 
Big Red
Civ.E.
DTD 
PKA “B”
Red Death 
McGilldoes
All the Dick Weber s among the readers 
should look into intramural bowling. 
Participants have until October 16 to 
submit a team roster of six names or more 
up to thirteen. Applications can be secured 
at the 1M office.
Last year 118 bowlers took part in the 
program, composing 13 teams, of which 
SAE was the champion. The high game was
3 ft"'* the hiirh avera?^ wn«; 1°l
Sieve 1 agati, coaUi ol the vai<»Jl> »ociOi 
and swimming teams, would like all 
interested candidates for these squads to 
see him in room 102 of the gym. While the 
soccer team is open only to men, women 
arc wclcnm? to try out fr '? w',< > Lam
AllEMiOt\ V AHS11 > LEUtKMEN 
There will be a meeting of the Varsity 
C-Club Tuesday night, September 18, in 
Breed Auditorium, Margaret Morrison 
Building, from 7-9 p.m.
All Lettermen from the various varsity 
sports are urged to attend this important 
first meeting.
Question Mark
Title hopes for CMU’s soccer team have 
been severely jeopardized by the possible 
ineligibility of superstar halfback Peter 
Moses. Moses played for the Canonsburg 
Maggis in a national soccer league over the 
winter, and apparently has severely 
endangered his position on the Tartan 
soccer squad.
Moses says that the coach of Bethany’s 
soccer team, who suffered their only defeat 
2-1 to CMU last year, is the leading figure 
in his impending ineligibility. He also 
asserts that the CMU Athletic Department 
is doing everything possible to save his 
services.
Having been named to the All-Western 
Pennsylvania Inter Collegiate Soccer 
Association squad more than once, besides 
delivering many tying and winning goals in 
his three years in a Tartan uniform, Moses 
looms as indispensable in this season’s 
quest to better last year’s mark of 4-1-2.
PKA
Black Magic 
SAE
Coaches All-Stars
KS
Red Riders “A’ 
Sc row 
Gripes
American
Wild Bunch 
BTP
P.K. Tators 
Grade A
West
Purple Gnurples 
Oakland Dolphins 
Shakers Beers 
SN
Red Riders “B”
Minors
Bearded Clams
Azzzoles
PLP
PKT “B”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973
Bobby and 
Billie Jean
by Glenn Campbell
On September 20 a man is going to play 
a woman in tennis. Normally this would be 
about as exciting as watching the Italian 
army lose another war. But because of the 
asinine antics and chutzpah of the best 
sports promoter since Muhammed Ali, this 
promises to be the biggest tennis match of 
all time.
The cataylst for this bonanza is Bobby 
Riggs, a fossil from tennis’ dark ages who 
was one of the games’ all-time greats but 
was bom too early to cash in on today’s 
lucrative tournaments and endorsements. 
Eight months ago Riggs was a non-entity 
known only by tennis fanatics but now 
he’s the most talked about man in America 
not involved in the Watergate scandal. 
Surely everyone knows of Riggs’ hustling 
and how he’s won tennis matches playing 
under outrageous handicaps. But now he’s 
not playing a Beverly Hills dilettante but 
the greatest woman player in the world, 
Billie Jean King. To the consternation of 
Gloria Steinem and friends, Riggs will 
make a fortune from the women’s 
movement.
Why has this match, which is more show 
biz than sport, take on such importance? 
Clearly Riggs’ outrageous quotes such as 
*“keep the women pregnant and barefoot” 
and “a woman’s place is in the bedroom 
and kitchen, in that order” have stoked the 
fires of female indignation. But the fact is 
Riggs knows he’s obnoxious and getting 
under the womens’ skins and they’re play­
ing into his hands. After all, it takes two t< 
tango and Riggs couldn’t make a cent if th< 
outraged women had ignored his chal­
lenges. But beacuse of the tennis boom and 
the women’s movement making this into a 
holy war, we have the most incongruous 
sports event in recent memory.
And what better place to stage this hap­
pening than the Astrodome, the Wimbleton 
of the West? To show how popular this 
match has become, over 40,000 people are 
expected in a state with a tennis reputation 
akin to that of the Sahara Desert. The 
court will be set up in the infield and it will 
be very difficult to see the ball, much less 
tell if it’s in bounts. This match is attract­
ing people who don’t know anything about 
tennis but who want to see their side vic­
torious in the “battle of the sexes.”
And what about the match itself? Riggs 
won’t be able to psyche King as he did 
Margaret Court. However, Billie Jean will 
have the pressure on her because she’s car­
rying the banner for an entire sex. Riggs, 
the self-proclaimed “55 year-old with one 
foot in the grave” has nothing to lose and 
everything to gain. Because of ancillary 
rights even the loser will receive $100,000. 
Also the endorsements are pouring in for 
Riggs. Riggs’ inflated ego has been soothed
by all the attention he’s been getting and 
even if he loses he’s milking his time in the 
spotlight. Riggs is calling the action and 
having the time of his life. So Riggs should 
be the favorite. But if the match goes a full 
five sets King’s youth and conditioning 
could be the deciding factor.
Margaret Court, Billie Jean King and the 
women’s tennis tour are not the ones being 
hustles. The American people, bored by 
Watergate and angered by inflation, seek a 
diversion. Riggs has hustled the public into 
giving him attention and a piece of the 
action, and that is all he’s ever wanted.
Track Retrospective
by Ken Kloes
If track season ended last spring, why 
wait until now to write a final track article 
on the ’73 season? Well, it’s this way-the 
final issue of the TARTAN came out 
before there was a chance to report on 
C-MlTs third place finish in the President’s 
Athletic Conference championship meet.
Since the event fell during finals week, 
the Tartans were only able to field ten men 
for the two day affair at John Carroll 
College. Their performance was all the 
more impressive considering they only 
took one place in the field events and were 
without the services of freshman MVP Nate 
Berger, who pulled a hamstring in a 
qualifying heat of the 100 yard dash. 
Captain Tony McKay was a double winner, 
taking the long jump and the 440 yard 
dash with his usual ease. Tom Silvis broke 
the school record for the 440 yard inter­
mediate hurdles in a qualifying heat and 
bettered that time again in the finals for a 
third place. Jay Corpus took a pair of 
fourths in the 100 and 220 yard dashes, 
and Ken Kloes placed fifth in the mile and 
third in the three mile runs. Just behind 
McKay in the quarter was Neville Evans 
with a third place. As so often happened 
during the regular season, C-MU needed an 
outstanding effort in the mile relay to pull 
ahead, and as usual they got it. The fan­
tastic four this time were Silvis, Chuck 
McDonough, Evans and McKay. Their first 
place finish pulled the Tartans ahead of a 
tough Thiel team and into third place 
overall.
On behalf of the team, I would like to 
thank Coaches Gary Meckley and Paul 
Steva for the time and effort they put into 
directing our efforts, and Dr. Cyert, whose 
administrative help was invaluable in 
arranging to go to the meet.
Tartans preparing for first game with Oberi in.Photo by Bruce Edelston
___REICH/FRANK'S
CN o.
Cruise on up to Reich Frank’s 
all new TOP DECK and move 
out in clothes designed for the 
guy with “Cruisin’ to Do” ... 
in baggies ... baseball shirts 
. . . bowties . . . and belts.. . . 
It’s the one place that puts it 
all together for you.
ALKXREICH ARANK
212 N. HIGHLAND Ml EAST LIBERTY 661 2257 • 5(24 FORBES AVE SQUIRREL HILl'421 9600
SPORTS 
LIBERATED
by Mary Jo Chabala
The beginning of another academic year 
at CMU is underway and, in addition, 
another year of sports activities has begun. 
All the fraternities are inviting girls to 
parties. Well, girls, you are now invited to 
join women’s and co-ed sports at CMU.
The sports season for women opens 
Monday, September 10 with tennis 
practice at 4:30 p.m. on the CMU tennis 
courts. Practice for field hockey starts 
Tuesday, September 11 at 4:30 p.m. at the 
lower entrance of the gym.
The Fencing Club, which is co-ed, turns 
out a women’s and a men’s fencing team. 
Practices are held in the gym at 4:30 p.m. 
on Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday 
with beginners’ lessons on Tuesday 
evenings.
Women’s intramurals start Wednesday, 
September 19 with volleyball. Entries are 
due Friday, September 14. They may be 
obtained at the women’s physical 
education office or at the main desk at 
More wood Gardens.
Additional information concerning 
these and up-coming sports may be ob­
tained from Miss Fisk, Gym Room 1. Her 
phone extension is 415.
The cooperation and the enthusiasm 
from the women at CMU will put women’s 
sports 25 years ahead of its time and not 
behind its time, as anti-women’s libera- 
tionist and tennis player Bobby Riggs says 
about women’s tennis.
McKay, Dewey 
Head Hamers
by Ken Kloes
Cross country gets underway this 
Wednesday, September 19, as the Tartans 
meet defending PAC champs Case-Western 
Reserve University. Last year’s team led all 
C-MU varsity sports with an 11-2 record 
(7-1 against PAC teams) and finished 
second in the conference championships.
Returning lettermen are seniors Greg 
Dewey (captain), Ken Kloes (MVP in ’72), 
Tony McKay, and Tom Silvis, and junior 
Greg Hyatt. New additions include juniors 
Mark Wieszczyk and Ansley Klein, and 
freshmen Ray Smith and Wade Gregson.
The first two meets will be the toughest 
for the Tartans, as they are against CWRU 
and Grove City College—the only teams 
that beat C-MU last year.(Fortunately, 
though, Grove City is not a PAC member.) 
The Tartans themselves, however, should 
also be tough competition. In Dewey and 
Kloes, C-MU has its two fastest C-C men to 
date, and the team has the potential to be 
the first in C-MU/CIT history to have four 
men under the 23 minute mark for the 
hilly 4.2 mile Schenley Park course. But as 
always, the team can use all the help it can 
get. There is much latent talent on this 
campus; the addition of a few more 
runners could give the team the depth it 
needs to win the PAC championship. If any 
Tartan readers have run cross country in 
the past or are otherwise interested in 
participating, they should contact coach 
Gary Meckley at the Donner Hall locker 
rooms any day at 4:30 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973-Page 19
The Man With The Golden Arm
The form that took Hubka to the pros.
by Jeff R. Englund
Mr. Thomas Hubka, a professor of 
architecture at the University of Oregon, 
graduated in 1968 from Carnegie-Mellon’s 
fine school of that discipline. He currently 
teaches a course entitled “The Violence of 
Architecture”.
Tom Hubka is qualified to teach this 
course from more than one standpoint, for 
in his undergraduate days he was witness to 
much violence. For three years he was the 
starting quarterback on Carnegie Tech’s 
and C-MU’s football team, and many 
remember him as the finest passer in the 
school’s history. Most of C-MU’s aerial 
records are still his, and those which no 
longer are have been taken over by players 
with an extra year’s opportunity.
At Plainfield (N.J.) H.S. Hubka was a 
defensive back. The team, coached by 1 
father, ran a ball-control offense and Ton 
arm did fit into the scheme. His freshman 
season at college was spent, except for a 
few plays, at the same position. In 1965, 
his sophomore year, he became first-string 
quarterback. The Tartans struggled to a 1-7 
mark, but Tom enjoyed a fine personal 
season, completing almost half his passes.
The next campaign saw Tom Hubka 
emerge into the quarterback who would 
shatter Tech passing records and be called 
the greatest ever. While directing the 
Tartans to a 5-3 record, he completed 
53.1% of his passes and gained 1359 yards 
passing, with 12 touchdown passes to add 
to his 15 of the previous year. His inter­
ceptions totaled only 14 for two years.
1967 saw Tom Hubka come into his full 
glory. Besides compiling a .559 completion 
percentage, a record 1963 yards in the air 
and 21 score-producing passes, mostly 
while with an injured knee, he engineered 
what could be the greatest sports upset in 
Carnegie-Mellon’s history.
Westminster College of New Wilming­
ton, Pennsylvania was ranked as the top 
small-college team in the East, if not the 
nation. Time magazine ran an article in 
their praise the first week in November. On 
November 4 the Tartans brought their less 
than .500 record to New Wilmington. The 
Titans looked as powerful as was expected. 
They rushed for three times the yardage of 
their opponents and put 34 points on the
scoreboard. But the high-voltage arm of 
Tom Hubka shocked Westminster, in front 
of their home crowd, with five touchdown 
passes. The Tartans led by a touchdown at 
the half and held the lead the rest of the 
way to win 41-34.
The following Saturday C-MU’s fans 
were treated to a performance that was, in 
some ways, even more incredible. Visiting 
Washington and Jefferson trailed at the 
half, 49-0. They were finally crushed 
56-16. Hubka had time to throw only 18
passes, due to his fourth quarter ejection 
for fighting. However, he completed 13, 
running off eight in a row. Six tosses found 
receivers in or directly on their way to the 
endzone, making eleven touchdown passes 
in two games.
Hubka, though easily the most brilliant 
Tartan star of those years, was not the only 
outstanding player. His passing achieve­
ments would not be what they are if his 
two prime receivers, Dick Bell and Joe 
Chernay, and his fine blocking back, Larry
Getto, had not been present. Getto also 
excelled as a middle linebacker and came 
very close to making the New York Giants.
Tom Hubka graduated in the spring of 
1968. Rich Squires, who broke some of 
Hubka’s career records, became the new 
Tartan quarterback. Hubka, however, was 
invited in March of 1968 to the rookie 
camp of the Atlanta Falcons. It is reported 
that he felt very satisfied with his perform­
ance in camp, and that he said he thought 
he threw better than his competition, who 
was, surprisingly. Bob Berry. Hubka 
weighed approximately 185 lbs, (he began 
at Tech weighing 160), and his knee had 
healed well, thanks to great determination 
on his part.
Tom did not make the Atlanta Falcons, 
however. He was cut from their roster 
during training camp. Bob Berry went on 
to become one of the NFL’s leading passers 
for half a decade.
The University of Oregon (which 
ironically is Berry’s alma mater) accepted 
Tom Hubka to study architecture on the 
graduate level. After attaining his master’s 
degree, he was invited to stay on as a 
professor.
Two men who knew Tom well during 
his college playing days. Head Coach Joe 
Gasparella, and Director of Publicity Rege 
Ebner (who covered some of Tom’s ex­
ploits for the Press) both remember Hubka 
as a serious, determined athlete; he was a 
far cry from the typical “jock”. He spent 
as much time working with weights as it 
took to strengthen his knee for his shot at 
the pros. On the field, he left no doubt in 
any teammate’s mind as to who was in 
charge. He studied diligently enough to 
attend graduate school and to instruct on 
the college level.
Carnegie-Mellon football in the mid- 
'60’s did not reach the level of the “glory 
years” of the ’20s and ’30s-the victories 
over Notre Dame and the Sugar Bowl 
Game. But the Oregon professor teaching 
“The Violence of Architecture”, Tom 
Hubka, holds a place in Tech football 
annals that might never be approached-the 
man who in three years did what others 
needed four to do. and what others will 
never do, while moving inexorably from 
high school defensive back to almost pro 
quarterback.
Tom Hubka
YearAtts.Comps.Pet.Yds.Avg^per Att.Had Int.LPJDs
1964196.316864.50290
1965212105.49613596.457615
1966220118.53114066.397812
1967227127.55919638.6107521
Career678356.52648147.1247848
CMLLRejtords
GamesSejsfiDCareei
Most Completions26vs.W&JNov.12,1966Most Completions1271967Most Completions
Most Attempts42vs.Denison1965Most Attempts2271967Most Attempts
Touchdown Passes6vs.W&JNov. 11, 1967Touchdown Passes211967Touchdawn Passes
Pass Yardage332vs.W&JNov.12,1966Pass Yardage19631967Pass Yardage
356
678
48
4814
1964-67
1964-67
1964-67
1964-67

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 18, 1973
THE CMU 
ACTIVITIES 
BOARD 
PRESENTS
9k Cm&d
mm¦
r
KOOL THE GANG
FRIDAY, SEPT. 21st 
8:30 P.M. 
IN THE CMU GYM
*3.00 with college I.D. 
4.00 without 
Tickets available at CMU Information Desk
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
MDC VIDEO
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, 
THURSDAY-
DAYTIME - SKIBO
MONDA Y, WEDNESDA Y-
EVENING -DONNER
SEPT. 17-20Groove Tube II
(With Buzzy Linhart)
SEPT. 24 - 27Cartoon Festival/Best of
VTN Workshop
OCT. 1 - 4The Prisoner - “A, B, & C”
OCT. 8-11Silent Films-To Be Announced
Oct. 15 -18Harry Chapin/
Cheech & Chong Concert
OCT. 22 - 24To Be Announced
OCT. 29 - NOV. 1 
NOV. 5 - 8 
NOV. 12 • 15 
NOV. 26 - 29
DEC. 3-6 
DEC. 10 -13
The Prisoner - “The General” 
To Be Announced 
To Be Announced 
Roberta Flack/
Donny Hathaway Concert 
To Be Announced 
The Prisoner - 
“Hammer Into Anvil”
FREE
