The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 23, 1944
Westinghouse Winner 
Will Attend Carnegie 
When Peace Conies
It seems that as Carnegie Tech 
grows in years, it grows also in 
name, as can well be evidenced from 
the choice of Amber C. Davidson, 
the winner of the National Science 
Talent Search, to attend Carnegie 
Tech after the war.
The winner of this year’s National 
Science Talent Search, a boy from 
Fort Bridger, Wyoming, will attend 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
when he returns from the war, Car­
negie Tech officials have announced.
Amber C. Davidson
Amber C. Davidson, 17, who will be 
inducted in July, competed with 
15,000 scientifically-gifted youths 
from all over the country for the 
$2400 awarded by the Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Com­
pany as top prize in the Third An­
nual Science Talent Search.
Young Davidson who Is interested 
in electronics, chemistry, micro­
scopy, painting and biology, chose 
Carnegie Tech to continue his sci­
entific studies after the war.
In preparation for the career 
which he hopes to follow Davidson 
has been working for the past six 
years on his own scientific projects, 
and has built a highly department­
alized home shop to accommodate 
his interests. One of his projects is 
the design of an “invisible search­
light” using infra-red rays and an 
electronic pickup, for military use 
in scanning enemy battle lines.
The scholarship grant, good at 
any degree-granting college or 
university, approved by the scholar­
ship committee of the Science Clubs 
of America, will be held in trust 
for use after the war.
Watson Davis, Director of Sci­
ence Clubs of America, which spon­
sor the National Science Talent 
Search, outlines its purpose as fol­
lows: To discover scientifically
talented boys and girls, to impress 
upon them the necessity for perfect­
ing their knowledge and skill in 
order to contribute as fully as pos­
sible to scientific development, and 
to help make the American public 
aware of the role of science in the 
war and in the post-war reconstruc­
tion.
LST Naval Officer 
Lauds Carnegie Tech
Navy L. S. T. crews have been 
stationed at Carnegie Tech for over 
a month. In appreciation of their 
pleasant stay on the TARTAN cam­
pus, an officer of one of the crews 
which has already left has written 
the following letter to President 
Doherty:
U. S. S. LST—664 
Care of Fleet Post Office 
New York, N. Y.
May 2, 1944 
Dr. Robert E. Doherty, President, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
My Dear Dr. Doherty:
The ninety-two enlisted men who 
comprise the crew of this ship have 
been your guests in the Naval unit 
for the past week. I think that you 
may perhaps be interested to know 
that they are tremendously enthusi­
astic about your hospitality. They 
tell me they have never had better 
food or kinder treatment. As our 
particular crew was disappointed 
in the hope of a few days leave at 
home, their pleasure and comfort 
with you has been doubly appre­
ciated.
I hope that you will consider this 
letter to be a word of thanks from 
the crew. The other officers, I 
know, join me in thanking you on 
our own account, for the cheerful­
ness and contentment of the crew 
has greatly enhanced our enjoy­
ment of our time in Pittsburgh.
With warm thanks, I am 
Sincerely yours,
(Signed J. R. Burke)
J. R. BURKE 
Lieut. USNR.
Former CIT Student 
Willed Small Fortune
Lieut. Carl Heyne, a former paint­
ing and design student here, was re­
cently willed $30,000 by Pittsburgh’s 
art director, Elmer A. Stephan. The 
two met eleven years ago when Carl 
was a student at the Carnegie Mu­
seum Art School. They have re­
mained fast friends since that time.
Carl continued his art training 
here at Tech until the end of his 
junior year when he volunteered 
for the army in June of 1942.
GM, Alumnus Tilbrook 
Add to the 1946 Plan
Carnegie’s Aeronautics depart­
ment received another boost at 
Commencement when Mr. Gilmore 
Tilbrook gave the school a grant 
under the 1946 plan to provide a 
memorial aernautics library and 
museum room in the proposed li­
brary building. At that time Pres­
ident Doherty also announced the 
donation of the equivalent of one 
thousand shares of General Motors 
common stock by Charles E. Wil­
son for the General Motors board.
Mr. Tilbrook’s donation was ear­
marked for a museum to contain 
models of historical interest in 
aviation, other pertinent material 
in aviation history, and a library 
composed of books on the “science, 
engineering, and history” of avia­
tion. He got the museum off to a 
good start himself with the dona­
tion of a model of the Martin China 
Clipper, which is on exhibition in 
the second floor hall of Administra­
tion Building.
Meet the Artists This Week !
Huge CIT Benefit 
Held This Sept. 22
A Carnegie Tech Benefit will be 
held in the gymnasium, September
22 by the Mothers’ Clubs and vari­
ous faculty members of C. I. T. This 
idea was organized by the Kappa 
Alpha Theta Mothers’ Club under 
the leadership of Mrs. W. Slocum. 
The program will consist of a bene­
fit bridge and entertainment both 
afternoon and evening on this date.
The profit from this gigantic un­
dertaking will go solely to the Car­
negie Tech Endowment Fund. 
Every effort is being made to make 
it a success, because for each dol­
lar raised by the benefit, six dollars 
will go to the Endowment Fund. 
That is, the Buhl Foundation is 
matching every dollar raised, while 
the Carnegie Foundation is contrib- 
Continued on page 5
President Doherty’s 
Son Earns Awards
The Doherty name received an­
other wreath of laurels recently 
when Lieutenant James A. Doherty, 
the youngest son of CIT’s president,
Xavier Cugat 
Come all of you tired and weary 
engineers, soldiers, and sailors—that 
dismal, gray stone building at the 
corner of Forbes and Bigelow 
Boulevard, has something bright, 
refreshing, and gay to offer every­
one of you. Yes, Carnegie Museum! 
That building has long since ceased 
to be the abode for only its curators, 
mad artists, sympathic friends, and 
a few curious intellects. The proof 
to this statment can be found on 
the second floor in an exhibition
called “Meet The Artist.”
Have you ever wanted to meet 
George Petty? Well, meet him 
through his self-portrait. He can be 
found there under a sun-umbrella 
painting a beach scene of his usual 
subject—the body beautiful . . . 
Milton Caniff, artist of “Terry and 
the Pirates,” can be found seated at 
his easel with Burma, Raven, the 
Dragon Lady, and many others hov­
ering over him . . . Xavier Cugat’s 
self-portrait is mounted on a con­
glomeration of pink music . . . 
Along with the above names you 
will find many more such as: Clar­
ence Carter—Tech’s own art pro­
fessor, Franny L. Cork—artist of 
the comic-strip “Little Miss Muf- 
fet”, Janet Roemhild, Zsissey, Etien­
ne Ret, Henry Schnakenbery, Leon 
Kroll, Joseph De Martin, Isabel 
Bishop, Jane Berlanding, and none 
other than your favorite and mine 
—Varga.
Under each self-portrait can be 
found a photograph of the artist. So, 
if the self-portrait does not offer 
you the necessary introduction, 
either look for the name on the pic­
ture or glance at the photograph 
under the painting.
I’m sure that you are just as curi­
ous about the artist as I was. So 
Continued on page 5
Lieutenant Doherty
was decorated by the United States 
Government. Lieutenant Doherty, 
first pilot on a Mitchell Bomber and 
flight commander of his squadron 
was awarded four decorations; the 
Air Medal, the Distinguished Flying 
Cross, and two Oak Leaf Clusters, 
for his outstanding service in the 
Army’s Seventh Air Force in the 
Central Pacific Area.
Max E. Hannum Elected 
Vice-President of ACPA
Mr. Max E. Hannum, Director of 
the Carnegie Tech News Bureau, 
was elected Vice-President in 
charge of Memberships of the Am­
erican College Publicity Associa­
tion at their convention held in Chi­
cago on May 3, 4, 5, and 6. Mr. 
Hannum has been a member of this 
organization for the past ten years 
and was Vice-President in charge of 
Athletics two years ago. In his new 
position, Mr. Hannum will be in 
charge of the management of per* 
sonnel, and regulation of enrollment 
for the Association.

---------------------------------------------------

2-¦iTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 23, 1944
C&itosiX An*ncUcUsi
A Challenge to the Student Body
One hundred and sixty-seven years ago, a young American sat down 
in the snow of Valley Forge, and began to write, with a drum as his desk: 
“These are the times that try men’s souls. The summer soldier and the 
sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service to their coun­
try ...” That was true then, and it is true today. For then as now there 
was a choice to be made: in 1777, the choice between immediate but tem­
porary comfort followed by almost certain and permanent disaster—and 
temporary hardship and sacrifice with the hope for prepetual liberty and 
happiness; today another choice, much less important, of course, but still 
of great consequence to us, the choice the students of Carnegie Tech face 
between an easy time now with the inevitable result that the last 
remnants of college spirit are lost for many years to come—and a few 
hours of extra work to keep this college from becoming an educational 
factory.
It’s up to you, students. If you want to keep a newspaper, a technical 
magazine, intramural sports, and other extra-curricular organizations, then 
sacrifice a few hours a week in spite of your expedited schedule, and join 
one or more of these activities. If you do not think that the upkeep of 
these traditions which made Carnegie Tech a true college is worth a 
bit of discomfort . . .
“These are the times that try men’s souls ...”
Good-Bye Again
In the last issue of the past semester we made an unsuccessful attempt 
to wish an adequate farewell to the departing students in general. Today 
we are faced with an even harder task, for we must say good-bye, be­
latedly perhaps, to the members of the Carnegie Tartan who have left or 
will leave in the near future to join the armed services.
During the last few weeks we have lost Nick Reed, General Business 
Manager for all publications, and his assistant, Merle Wolff, the Tartan 
business manager, both of whom were with us since May, 1943. We said 
good-bye to Nick Georges, who in less than three semesters rose from 
flunkie to News Editor, and to Sy Corwin, last semester’s Sports and Fea­
ture Editor. His predecessor, Marshall Nurenberg, shed his civvies last 
Friday. Our staff of reporters has been crippled by the loss of Bill Glad­
stone and Milt Perloff, while the departure of Photography Editor Ed Sun­
shine, and Photograpers Dick Bingham and Hank Hanish has left us with 
only one snapshooter.
To all these boys we would above all like to extend our gratitude for 
all the evenings and afternoons they have sacrificed helping to put out the 
Tartan, and our hope that we shall work together again as civilians before 
many months are over. Until that happy day we wish them lots of luck.
Fortunately their loss has been partially compensated by a few new 
staff members. We are glad to welcome to our clan one of last semester’s 
Junior Editors, Mike Riggle, in his new capacity of General Business Man­
ager for all publications—our loss will be our gain—our new Business Man­
ager, Martie Zanger, and new reporters, among whom we are 
happy to number Tom Bokman, last semester’s Scottie editor. As we have 
pointed out in the preceding article, we sincerely hope that these recent 
additions to our staff will soon be followed by many more.
Help Wanted
Male and female. Interesting 
work, night and day shifts, cafe­
teria (self-serve) food and drink, 
half-lavatories on premises and 
powder room readily accesable. No 
previous experience necessary—we 
will train you. Gain valuable skills 
and make interesting contacts. Car­
negie Tartan meeting Friday, five, 
publications office. All applications 
considered.
Opinion* expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
rSONE MAYFLOWER MM PHONE SCHENLEY 451»
MMMNNTIO »0« NATIONAL ADV*»T1*INO WY
National Advertising Service, Inc. After omce Hours Cal1Editor-in-Chief ...........................EM. 9424
420MAOWON AVI. NIWYORK.H.Y. Business Manager........................................SC. 8951
Cnicmo • Bo*roa • lm Amiui • ttm F»»*citco
Enter** a* ¦eeanl-rtau matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of Mareh S, 1879.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination period*.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor................................................................................ Pfc. James W. Vaughan
Business Manager ........................................................................................... Marty Zanger
Managing Editors........................................................................Adeline Herlick, Al Perry
News Editor ................................................................................................. Jerry Brickman
Copy and Headline Editor..................................................................................Clara Herron
Sports Editor ........................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Circulation Manager ...........................v....................................................... Chet Feinberg
AST Circulation Manager ...................................................................... Pfc. Chuck Pettis
Reporters: Augie Binder, Tom Bokman, Jeanne Boltey, Lou Emmel, Ivan Faigen, 
Mary Jane Horridge, Dottie King, Rosemary Lang, Kenny Lipman, Anita 
Newell, Georgette Paljug, Bob Sugarman.
The Outlook • < .
We are privileged to introduce with this article by Dr. Chworowsky, 
a series of discussions written exclusively by members of the CIT faculty, 
on important and interesting aspects of the national and international 
scene.
We join Dr. Chworowsky in hoping that this project will be “an ad­
venture in increased understanding ” and that it will stimulate the reader 
to form his own thoughts on problems of post-war importance.
On Postwar Planning
By Dr. Martin P. Chworowsky
In this the first of a series of ar­
ticles which will aim to discuss 
critically some of the outstanding 
issues in our contemporary world, 
it will not be out of place to indi­
cate some of the assumptions on 
which this project is based. There 
was a time after we became involv­
ed in the war when many outstand­
ing people urged us to concentrate 
all our efforts on the immediate job 
of winning the military struggle 
and to let our concern about the 
post-war world rest until the fight­
ing was over. That time seems al­
most ancient history now. Today 
the order of the day, even among 
those who a short time ago dubbed 
all talk about post-war planning as 
visionary and dangerous, is a great 
ado about what kind of a world we 
can and should have after the de­
feat of the enemy.
The first assumption on which 
this project was undertaken is, 
then, that postwar planning is not 
only desirable but necessary. But 
once a person has agreed to that as­
sumption, many questions come to 
mind. A catalogue of the groups 
who are doing post-war planning in 
this country alone has a good sized 
volume. An examination of their 
objectives reveals not only conflict­
ing aims, but also inconsistencies 
within the aims themselves. For 
example, one group aims to take ac­
tion to preserve “The American 
Way,” yet it is aggressively opposed 
to most of the trends in our national 
policy for the past fifteen years. An­
other group aims to develop a real 
Good Neighbor policy with Latin 
America, yet it proposes to realize 
its aims by concentrating its work 
in the hands of groups which have 
in the past aroused the emnity of 
Latin Americans for the Colossus 
of the North. Finally, there are 
groups which state democratic aims, 
yet who suggest implementation of 
those aims by a centralization of 
power in the national government 
which is hard to square with con­
tinued democratic growth.
This leads, then, to our second as­
sumption. Planning involves for­
mulation of ends and means so that 
the aims will influence the means, 
and the means will produce the aim. 
Another way of saying this is that 
any planning must be based on a 
social philosophy wide enough and 
detailed enough to develop a con­
sistent plan for action. Since we in 
America are committed to a dem­
ocratic way of life, all plans must 
be weighed in the balance of dem­
ocratic thought.
The third assumption is that what 
we shall be able to accomplish in 
the post-war world is being very 
much influenced by what we do now 
—not only in winning the war in the 
shortest possible time, but also in 
the way we try to prevent any un­
necessary deviations from our grow­
ing democratic tradition and in the 
way ge go about solving our peren­
nial social problems. Life is a cease­
less process. Even while we are en­
gaged in a life and death struggle 
we must remember that everlasting 
vigilance is required if we are to 
protect the things we hold most 
dear.
Our fourth assumption is that 
now and in the days to come we 
must learn to appreciate that a so­
cial philosophy is more than a con­
scious formulation of social policy. 
It is that; but unless it is translated 
into every day action, it is likely to 
lull its advocate into a false sense 
of security. A man’s real philosophy 
need not be spoken: it is manifest in 
his deeds. This was the thought 
Gilbert Chesterton had in mind 
when he wrote in the preface to his 
volume of essays, entitled “Here­
tics,” that it is more important for 
a landlady to inquire about the phi­
losophy of an applicant for one of 
her roomers than it is to ask about 
his income. So today we, too, are so 
much concerned about the morale 
of the enemy.
Our final assumption has to do 
with a point that has been implicit 
in what has already been said. Stu­
dents have their work pretty well 
set out for them so far as their class 
work is concerned. They may feel 
that that is their only job. But if 
they think they can be spectators in 
other walks of life today, they 
should realize that they are prepar­
ing themselves to be spectators in 
the future. And if they do not like 
the spectacle they then behold, 
what then? The time to begin be­
ing an effective citizen is now be­
cause the chances are strongly 
against a conversion to interested 
citizenship later. Or at any rate, 
the degree of their effectiveness can­
not be other than the accumulated 
result of their past experiences. It 
is well to ponder over the much 
misunderstood truism that we learn 
by doing.
A statement of these assumptions, 
it is hoped, will help students take 
part in this project as an adventure 
in increased understanding. The 
articles will bring out important 
facts. Digest them. Question them 
by marshaling others. Follow the 
logic of the exposition. Is it con­
sistent? What value-judgments are 
made in the article? How do these 
square with yours? Discuss the 
article with your friends. If the ar­
ticle stimulates the reader to re­
construct his own thinking,'it will 
have served part of its purpose, it 
will be even more worthwhile. If 
it leads a reader to contribute to 
this column, it may help bring about 
a worthwhile beginning of a prac­
tice which should certainly be an 
integral part of college life. ____
The Military Editorial Is On Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 23, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN8
Dr. Jones, Speaker 
At Geneva College, 
Stresses Education
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director of 
the College of Engineering, was af­
forded the honor of being asked to 
give the commencement address to 
the 1944 graduating class of Geneva 
College last Tuesday, May 16. Dr. 
Jones spoke on “Days To Come,” 
emphasizing the importance of ed­
ucation as a factor of American 
superiority.
“No other country in the world,” 
said the Director, “is so blessed with 
schools, colleges, and churches as 
ours ... As long as we possess 
our universal educational system, 
whereby rich and poor alike can 
obtain a college education, America 
will continue its progress, its great­
ness.”
Of the original source of this 
greatness, Dr. Jones said: “Our an­
cestors came here because they 
were faced in Europe by hunger; 
their children were not afforded ed­
ucational privileges; they could not 
worship as they would; and they 
were under the heel of bondage and 
tyranny. Their entrance into a new 
world was fraught with trials and 
privations. However, their princi­
ples were sound. On the shaky 
foundation of a love for freedom, 
they built a nation which Lord Ma- 
cauley, in 1957, prophesied would 
not stand!”
Dr. Jones pointed out that despite 
this prophecy, the United States has 
never suffered defeat. He added, 
“Now we are engaged in another 
struggle which will end in victory 
. . . dearly bought with the young 
blood of our nation . . . but victory 
. . . Our brave sons and daughters 
will not die in vain if we at home 
live up to our responsibilities . . . 
We have man-made principles to 
guide us . . . the Magna Carta, the 
Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and, 
more recently, the Atlantic Char­
ter.”
The Director then summraized 
briefly the points of the Charter, 
saying “Supplementing the four 
freedoms that have been emphasiz­
ed in the Atlantic Charter, I wish 
to emphasize a fifth which has 
meant so much to our national pro­
gress—freedom of action, common­
ly termed freedom of enterprise. 
This is the basic freedom upon 
which the others depend.” In re­
gard to this highly important fifth 
freedom, he said, “In time of war, 
controlled economy is vitally essen­
tial. Let us not be duped, when 
peace comes, to continue the Fed­
eral control of our national econ­
omy.”
Dr. Jones concluded his speech 
by saying to the graduating class, 
“Strive for better homes, better 
schools, better churches, and bet­
ter Government—four cornerstones 
of better living. Resolve from this 
day—your commencement—to con­
tribute bountifully to the advance­
ment of civilization.”
The excellent reception given 
this speech by the Geneva students 
is ample indication that once again 
Director Jones has nobly represent­
ed our school.
jpi
Miss Elizabeth Helm, 
Dormitory Supt., Dies
Carnegie Tech lost one of the 
most interesting members of its for­
mer organization, Miss Elizabeth 
Helm, on May 12. Miss Helm was 
brough to Carnegie in 1923 by Miss 
Mary Louise Brown, former Dean 
of Women, in the cacapity of super­
intendent of men’s dormitories.
Miss Helm was bom in England 
on June 6,1863 and remained a Brit­
ish subject until she died. During 
World War I she became interested 
in social work and made fifty cross­
ings of the Atlantic while pursuing
this interest. Continuing her work 
in this war she has been a part of 
the British War Relief Society.
The alumni will remember Miss 
Helm in her capacity as men’s 
dorms superintendent. It was large­
ly through her efforts that the Dor­
mitory Council and the D.-G. Club 
were originated. The D.-G. club 
was the beginning of Claymore 
Clan, men’s dormitory honorary, 
and it caused the installation of the 
Recreation Halls in the dorms. Miss 
Helm was responsible for the in­
firmary in McGill Hall, and for 
sleeping quarters for parents visit­
ing at Tech. The former food shop 
and pressing establishment in Welch
Hall were begun by Miss Helm.
While at Carnegie Miss Helm oc­
cupied quarters in the basement of 
McGill Hall. A story is told about 
the time that the fellows on the 
floor above brought an anvil into 
their rooms and beat on it during 
a major part of the evening. Miss 
Helm, usually a very understanding 
person, was finally compelled to in­
quire into the cause of the unusual 
noise. The reply was: “Miss Helm, 
we are only doing our foundry 
homework.” While bearing many 
students’ pranks, Miss Helm still 
remained sincerely interested in the 
welfare of the students until her 
resignation in 1937.
From Major General Hayes 
to the women of
Carnegie Tech
Probably no other group of young American 
women has so much to offer the accomplishment 
of the final victory as college-trained seniors 
such as you.
You have the education and training for leader­
ship, the schooled discipline of mind and body, 
and a background of appreciation of the re­
sponsibilities of-your generation in the world 
of tomorrow, the world of peace.
The Army urgently needs you and the contri­
bution you can make toward peace and final 
victory. I am confident that you will seriously 
consider this call of your country.
Philip Hayes
Major General, U. S. Army
3rd Service Command, Commandingè
Find out today about your place in the 
Women’s Army Corps. Learn how you can use 
your background, your aptitude in one of 239 
vital Army jobs.
Clip the coupon below, and mail it at once. 
You will be sent an interesting illustrated 
booklet explaining the opportunities the WAC 
offers you—the valuable experience the Army 
gives you, the deep satisfaction you’ll feel in 
helping to speed America’s victory.
Special deferment now 
offered college women!
If you want to finish your college semester 
before starting your Army career, you 
can enlist in the WAC now and arrange 
to be called to active duty later—any 
time within the next 4 months.
You must be at least 20 years old 
before joining the WAC.
THE AR/i/W NEEDS WACS... 
i THE tVAC NEEDS YOU]
WOMIN'S ARMY CORN
U. S. ARMY RICRUITINO STATION
201 Old Post Office Buildlnr Fourth Avenue A Smithfield Street PITTSBURGH, PA.
I should Ilk* comploto Information «boot tho WAC.
Chy..Af.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 23, 1944
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MBMBBH FSDIRAL DEPOSIT INIUHANCI CORPORATION 
--Í__________________
Have a Coca-CoIa=You’re invited to our house
^aUi 9n Khaki . .
By Jerry Brickman 
Tales In Khaki this semester will 
try to bring to its readers news of 
the whereabouts of so many of the 
Tech engineers who have recently 
left for the Army, Navy, and Ma-
...or how to make sailors feel at home
To an old friend Have a “Coke** says Welcome back. To a newcomer 
it says Stranger, you belong. And Coca-Cola belongs, too . i. in your 
icebox at home, ready to refresh the family and friends. At home, in 
camp, and overseas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes, — 
has become the symbol of American friendliness the world over.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
rines. But this will take time; how­
ever, with your help and a good 
deal of patience on our parts, a com­
plete coverage of this information 
will eventually reach you through 
this column.
... And now for some recent 
news about Tech graduates . . . 
From the Office of Public Relations 
at Pensacola, Florida, the Annapolis 
of the Air, comes word that Robert 
L. Sobey won his Navy “Wings of 
Gold” and was commissioned an en­
sign in the Naval Reserve this week 
following completion of the pre­
scribed flight training course at 
Pensacola . . . Having been desig­
nated a Naval Aviator, Ensign 
Sobey will go on active duty at one 
of the Navy’s air operational train­
ing centers before being assigned to 
a combat zone . . .
. . . And from Maxwell Field, 
Alabama, comes the news that Har­
old R. Williams is now enrolled as 
an aviation cadet in the pre-flight 
school at Maxwell Field, an in­
stallation of the Army Air Forces 
Training Command . . . Cadet Wil­
liams will receive nine weeks of in­
tensive military, physical and aca­
demic training before being trans­
ferred to an advanced training 
base . . .
Past and PresentWAG A la College Jtcfe
Women’s Army Corps Will Offer 
Little Change From College Life
must be no coed carelessness in 
leaving things strewn about—the G.
I. barracks inspection instills habits 
of neatness.
Coeds are accustomed to making 
friends and acquaintances of wom­
en from all parts of the country, and 
the same is true of the Air Wacs on 
duty at AAF installations, but there 
is an added factor in the cosmopoli­
tan nature of their companionship. 
In college, the coed’s acquaintances 
usually were within about three 
years of her own age, but the wom­
en with whom she associates in the 
Army have a greater range in years 
and experience.
Many of them have had business 
careers of their own—in everything 
from dress designing to ranch man­
agement—have traveled widely, or 
have established homes of their 
own.
Going to chapel services at an air 
field is no different from attending 
church services in a college town— 
the fact that the man in the pulpit 
wears a uniform and is called a 
Chaplain doesn’t change the cere­
monies. They are Protestant, Cath­
olic or Jewish, as in civilian life, 
conducted in the same manner.
There are other parallels in 
everyday life—the post newspaper 
coresponds to the undergraduate 
paper, and the company “day room” 
to the lounge in the student union.
Former coeds will find plenty of 
ways in which their surroundings 
will remind them of their campus 
days, but of course the many air­
field jobs handled by women sol­
diers go far beyond the academic 
curricula. Serving as airplaine me­
chanics, control tower operators, 
clerks, weather observers, radio op­
erators, typists, photographic tech­
nicians, Link trainer instructors — 
taking care of more than 200 essen­
tial Air Force assignments — they 
are doing practical jobs, helping to 
keep the planes in the air and gain­
ing work experience.
It’s natural for popular name« 
to acquire friendly abbrevia­
tion». That’» why you hear . 
Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
Carnegie and China Clipper
New Librarian
With the start of the new se­
mester, the Carnegie Tech library 
staff acquired a new member. She 
is Miss Ruth Weinbaum, who is 
working at the main library in En­
gineering Hall. Miss Weinbaum 
is a Carnegie Tech graduate of the 
class of May, 1943. Subsequent to 
her graduation she entered the 
school’s library school, completing 
her course this year.
Prof. Dawes Speaks
On Tuesday, May 23rd, Profes­
sor Norman Dawes will speak on 
“Problems of the Peace” by sketch­
ing the probable situation which 
will exist in Germany and Europe 
at large after the war. This address 
will be given before the Alumni 
Association of Carnegie Tech.
The following recommendations 
are to be considered: emphasis on 
an international organization with 
effective powers, a cooperative solu­
tion to the colonial problem, polit­
ical and military alliance with 
Great Britain and China, making of 
treaties with our conquered lands, 
and the United States’ harmonious 
position with the world at large.
Flying fields of the Army Air 
Forces have become the new Alma 
Mater of many a college woman 
who has made the discovery that in 
the transition her everyday life 
hasn’t changed so much after all.
She’s on the job as a member of 
the Women’s Army Corps, serving 
with the Army Air Forces—instead 
of being a student, but though she 
is “military personnel” rather than 
an “undergraduate,” she finds many 
of the new patterns of everyday life 
have their parallels with her days 
on the campus.
Outwardly, a barracks may have 
no close resemblance to a college 
dormitory or sorority house, but 
fundamentally the principle is the 
same—it’s a matter of becoming ac­
customed to living away from home. 
And the former coed, having ac­
quired that habit while on the cam­
pus, adapts herself readily to her 
new life.
What about the counterpart of 
the campus hangout, that restaurant 
which serves as a crossroads for un­
dergraduate comings and goings? 
Of course, in the soda bar or cafe­
teria run by the Post Exchange you 
won’t find the walls decked with 
photographs of star athletes, and in 
the Service Club there won’t be 
trophies of past gridiron triumphs, 
but the idea of having a place to 
meet is pretty much the same.
Dances are held at the post Serv­
ice Club—on the campus.the usual 
place is the gymnasium.
For dates off the post, there is a 
“sign out” and “sign in” roster the 
same as in college.
An evening in the barracks is 
liable to present many of the same 
scenes found in a college dormitory 
—letter writing, sock-darning, read­
ing, manicuring, and the ever-pres­
ent huddle for exchanging conver­
sational notes on everything under 
the sun. But the “lights out” rule 
is strict, and the next morning there

---------------------------------------------------

head, that place, with all its cir­
cumstances, must be corrected. The 
iirst sign of this new disorder was
seen last week in a minor company 
incident’. That this affair was clear­
ed up rapidly does not affect the 
larger picture. The mixture re­
mains as before.
We have no objection to the cam­
pus being cluttered up with its 
present cluttees, certainly. But if 
a point is reached and passed — a 
point after which the Army is not 
permitted to use its own common 
sense, and after which it is adverse­
ly affected by completely external 
circumstances—a halt must be call­
ed. All things considered, the mili­
tary at Tech has had a pretty good 
‘reputation. We have trust in the 
intelligence of the Navy. We feel 
sure that the present delicate situa­
tion will not get out of hand.
All interested in going on the 
annual YMCA-CWCA retreat are 
invited to attend the weiner roast 
behind the Union tomorrow at six, 
«where final plans will be discussed.
ÏUESDAY, MAY 23, 1944 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
ATlantic 8320 
. 644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Institute Presents 
Scholastic Art Show
The Carnegie Institute is now 
presenting the annual “Scholastic” 
high school art exhibition. Because 
almost all of you have been sub­
jected to the same art training as 
the students who exhibit in this 
show, you will not only appreciate 
their efforts but marvel at the re­
sults. You will also be able to see 
more clearly than anyone else the 
z- great stride that has taken place in 
art since you left high school. Never 
in the history of “Scholastic” has 
there been such originality, creative 
thought, and splendid color. Amer­
ican youth is more alive now dur­
ing this war than it has ever been. 
But then, yon am the judges of the 
show.
Pictorial arts, prints, handicrafts, 
sculpture, design, textiles, ceramics, 
posters, and photography are inter­
estingly represented in this show.
Come to the second floor gallery 
of the Institute before the show 
closses on June 4th.
Carnegie Benefit
Continued from page 1
uting double this amount.
The following" groups are spon­
soring this event:- : -
Women’s Club of C. I. T.
Women’s Clan 
Mortar Board. .
Cwens
Sigma Alpha Iota 
Alpha Kappa Psi 
Alpha Epsilon Phi 
Delta Delta Delta 
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Kappa Alpha Theta 
Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Gamma Phi Sigma 
Mothers’ Club, of Beta Thieta Pi. 
Various faculty members of Mar­
garet Morrison College, School of 
Fine Arts, and the College of Engi­
neering.
Honorary Patrons are:
Mrs. Arthur A. Hammerschlag 
Mrs. Samuel Church 
Mrs. Andrew Carnegie 
Mrs. Roswell Miller 
The chairman of this project, 
Mrs. W. Slocum, and the vice- 
chairmen, Mrs. R. Doherty and Mrs. 
E. Thorpe, will welcome any group 
and appreciate suggestions.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
6808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
Long range battering rams, these big mobile guns 
bombard enemy positions, laying down a creeping 
barrage in advance of our infantry and tank attacks.
Gun crews keep in close touch by telephone with 
"fire control.” Over quickly laid networks of wires 
the bastery command coordinates these heavy 
artillery units, effectively focusing their combined 
fire power.
Peacetime telephones doing a wartime job! 
That’s also the main assignment now of Bell Tele­
phone Laboratories’ scientists — for this country, 
with the world’s best telephone service in peace, 
can give no less to its fighting forces in war.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long D.istance lines busy ... That's why your call may be delayed.
Perhaps the most famous axiom 
applied to the three branches of the 
Armed Services is that old chestnut 
to the effect that “The Marines get 
the glory, the Navy gets the medals, 
and the Army gets the work.” This 
quotation has been, and is, far truer 
than its flippancy might suggest. 
One has but to consider the inglori­
ous, unpublicized drudgery faced by 
an ordinary line rifleman. This man 
is called upon to do more and risk 
more with a future of less—a future 
of nothing but work and blood.
It is this uppretentiousness of the 
Army which robs it of all semblance 
of glamour. There is little about it 
which attracts attention, and cer­
tainly no subtle “something” which 
fascinates an impressionable mind. 
The Army is drab. It is the founda­
tion, the solid branch, of our entire 
military institution; it does that 
which has to be done; it wins wars 
—but it is drab.
The soldier has long envied the 
dashing, swashbuckling Marine uni­
form. Upon its magnificent splen­
dor has he gazed in reverent awe. 
He envies the men in the Air Corps 
with their Grade A stamp: their 
treatment, their hours, their food; 
all those many benefits which, some­
how, have collected under one in­
signia. These things, then, are not 
his—his is a destiny of dust.
But from this welter of non-at­
tributes there stands alone the great 
loss: the incredible attractive force 
— that almost supernatural mag­
netism—of the United States Navy. 
The ease and nonchalance with
Meet the Artist
Continued from page 1 
go down to the museum, choose 
your favorites, and spend some time 
looking through their eyes into 
their inner souls. Of course, it 
isn^t quite as simple as that, but you 
will learn a lot about the artist 
through these self-portraits.
This - is a cordial invitation for 
you to drop in at the museum any­
time between now and May 31st 
just to:
“Meet The Artist”
which sailors effect close personal 
relationship with women of all sorts 
stands among the wonders of the 
modern world. A soldier, by com­
parison, . is frustration incarnate. 
How long has he dreamed his 
dreams of irrestibility — with no 
tangible results. And only too clear 
has this divergence become on cam­
pus within the past month. The 
Navy has shown its strength.
We neither deny nor begrudge 
the Navy that which affords it pleas­
ure, so long as the means and ends 
of that pleasure do not in the least 
affect the administration of the 
Army here at Tech. If the liberties of 
the AST were limited before this 
term, consider them now. There are 
no weeknight passes to the great 
majority; married men are no long­
er permitted overnight freedom; the 
atmosphere and discipline are more 
strictly GI than at any other time 
since the inception of this unit. It 
follows, therefore, that wherever 
possible restriction mi^ht. rpar its
i

---------------------------------------------------

6THl «ARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 23,1944
*7<6e Qodi fljet Smile
MMCC Colors Turn 
From Khaki to BlueMf
For the week or so following the 
departure of the majority, of the 
ASTP, the halls of Margaret Mor­
rison echoed and re-echoed with 
weeping and wailing and gnashing 
of teeth. Only too evident were the 
expressions of hopelessness and 
despondency on the faces ;-of all 
MM’s—be they freshmen or seniors. 
Their eyes were fogged, their hair 
uncombed, their eyelids sagging. 
The classrooms were even •• worse, 
for every girl sat and dreamed of 
her particular departed AST hero. 
Life meant nothing—it was. a hol­
low shell.
And yet—all was not black. The 
rumors began, as do they ever, in 
whispers. They grew and?> grew 
and grew until CIT was filled with 
rumor, and the hearts of every lit­
tle student was filled with expecta­
tion. From the depths of despair 
there sprang a ray of hope. The ex­
pressions of pain and sorrow chang­
ed to those of anticipation, of eager­
ness, of deliverance. The bagp (un­
der the eyes) were camouflaged in 
ye gude olde accepted tradition of 
womanhood; hair no longer droop­
ed—it shone with a lustre th\t- put 
the sun (sic) to shame; sagging 
eyelids were injected with stimuli, 
and once more were coyly raised. 
Life no longer was a futile thing— 
filled with nothingness: the clouds 
began to drift away.
Into the ivy clad domain of,, Car­
negie Tech sailed the swash­
buckling men of the United States 
Navy. *'
Theirs was the honor to lift the 
Maggie Murph from her depths; 
theirs was the privilege to restore 
the Maggie Murph’s faith in uher- 
self—in the world—in life itself. 
What if their stay was temporary? 
What if they would never be fully 
known to each other? Was not,this 
the Good Earth? Was it not Sprjhg? 
Did not the sun shine, and the birds 
sing, etc.? This was the glory of 
the world—this Fate which sent 
nectar to the damned.
Margaret Morrison lives again. 
She breathes, and smiles, and all is 
well. The men of the fleet, tran­
sient though they be, have given 
new life to her. It is a merciful 
Providence who looks after ther 
flock, and who cannot let sorrow 
and anguish fill the souls of mortal 
woman.
YM-YWCA Retreat 
Will Be Held May 27r /
The annual CWCA-YMCA joint 
retreat is to be held at Laurel Ridge 
on May 27th and 28th. The Rev. 
John Smith of the 43rd Street Pres­
byterian Church will be the main 
speaker at this meeting.
Although religion will be the pre­
dominating theme, there will be no 
lack of planned and unplanned en­
tertainment. It is expected that -at 
least fifty Tech students will be 
present. *
All students planning to attend 
are urged to attend the weiner 
roast at Carnegie Union, on Wednes­
day, May 24th at which time final 
arrangements for the weekend will 
be made, or to get in touch with Mr. 
Rollin V. Davis at Carnegie Union.
RED WARING’S 
VICTORY TUNES 
Fivo Nights a Week 
all NBC Stations
J „j*/ JOHN NESBITT'S 'Of***' PASSING PARADE 
Tuos.Wod.Thurs. Nights 
all CBS Stations
