-------------—------------------------------------------------------—------------------------------------------------------------------------------------¦¦¦¡INSIDE ¦!
The Tartan
FEATURES..............Page 11
An interview with Hunter Thompson 
and Thanksgiving stories
SPORTS....................Page 20
FEATUR S.P aggTR e. 1O20RphR oRAAE0 t0hbR2ghyn dEbRUGR2 .iP elS/Cross-country nation's 9th best. Men’s 
hoops win tourney, women fall in finals
MEAh«R WOhI >2OyR20hyhRgP erw c22RgyRI
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
At approximately 1:20 am Saturda^Nov. 21, 
parties at Pi Kappa Alpha (Pika) and Delta Tau 
Delta (DTD) fraternities were raided by state 
and local officials.
The raid was one of eleven at universities 
throughout the state. Steve Sandrovich, super­
visor of the Pittsburgh office of the State 
Police Bureau of Liquor Control Enforce­
ment, stated that roughly thirty-five officers 
took part in what he called a “Speakeasy raid.” 
Of the thirty-five, fifteen were State Police 
officers or LCB officials and twenty were 
Pittsburgh police officers or Bureau of Fire 
personnel.
About 150 students were arrested in the raid 
which continued until almost 3:00 am. Most of 
the arrests were for underage drinking or pos­
session of alcohol. The people were trans­
ported to the Public Safety Building in rented 
PAT buses and arraigned before Judge Ed­
ward Barowski at about 6:00 am, according to 
some of those arrested. A total of 127 students 
were convicted and sentenced to fifteen hours 
each of community service. Most of these 
people had been convinced to plead guilty.
Eight other people also appeared before 
Judge Barowski. Seven were charged with 
Disorderly Conduct, and one with Public In­
toxication. Four of the Disorderly Conduct 
charges were upheld. Two people received 
sentences of fifteen hours of community serv­
ice and one person was sentenced to twenty- 
five hours. The fourth person was fined 
$348.50. Barowski dismissed the other four 
charges.
Eleven other students were arrested on more 
serious charges of Selling Alcohol to Minors 
and Selling Alcohol without a License. Both 
charges are misdemeanor violations of the 
Pennsylvania State Liquor Code. Of the 
eleven people arrested, ten had been tending 
bar or collecting money at the two parties (five 
at Pika and five at DTD). The eleventh person 
arrested was Evan Kaliner, President of Pika. 
The police reportedly were looking for DTD 
president Brian Albrecht but did not find him.
These eleven were also taken to the Public 
Safety Building. They were arraigned before 
Judge John Salton who scheduled a November 
30 hearing before Judge Robert E. Tucker.
In addition to the criminal charges, Pika
received nine citations for fire code violations 
and DTD received three. These citations in­
cluded no “maximum occupancy” sign, a 
blocked fire escape, improper lighting, and 
overcrowding. Kaliner remarked that a repre­
sentative from the Housing Office had in­
spected the Pika house earlier in the week and 
had found no fire violations. Each citation 
carries a maximum fine of $1000 from the 
fraternity and an equal amount from the Uni­
versity, which owns the houses. Kaliner said 
that he hoped the fraternities would be able to 
work with the University to fight the citations.
It appears that planning for the raid had been 
in progress for some time. Greek Advisor Ron 
Campana said that the State Police “had under­
cover people there for a few weeks.” Several 
undercover officers were at the DTD “Post­
man” party fkst week and used information 
gathered there to obtain a warrant to raid the 
house this week. Sandrovich claimed that his 
office had received an anonymous complaint 
within the last week that the fraternities were 
selling alcohol and serving minors. The Pitts­
burgh Press has reported that the raid was 
planned since at least Tuesday when arrange­
ments were made for the three PAT buses used
to transport students to the Public Safety 
Building.
The fraternities were staked out before the 
raid was executed. In addition to infiltrating 
the DTD “Postman party” the previous week, 
policemen investigated this week’s party at 
Pika. Police gave the requested donation and 
entered the party late Friday. Sandrovich said 
that “Undercover officers consumed beer [at 
PikaJ prior to the actual raid.”
The raid was very sudden. Many of the 
people arrested said that they did not even 
know what was happening for the first few 
minutes. The raid apparently was kept secret 
until the last minute. A Carnegie Mellon po­
lice officer claims that the Pittsburgh police 
were only notified about the raid five minutes 
ahead of time, and CMU security only found 
out when both Pika and DTD called them to 
report persons attempting to enter the houses 
claiming to be police officers. However, Eric 
Dusenbury, president of Delta Upsilon, said 
that there were rumors at Friday’s Inter Frater­
nity Council happy hour that something might 
happen, but the fraternities did not decide to 
cancel their parties that night.
Once inside the houses, the police and LCB
officials moved quickly to prevent students 1 
from escaping. There have been numerous 
accusations of impropriety on the part of the 1 
police. Many people reported that the police * 
used excessive violence against the students 
being arrested. Some students who are over 21 
were arrested for underage drinking without 
being given an opportunity to show their ID's 
to the police.
Civil Engineering major Caleb Dobbins, 21, 
said that he was getting ready to leave the Pika 
party when the raid began. He reports that he 
was grabbed by a policeman and dragged to . 
one of the waiting PAT busses. He attempted 
twice to tell the officer that he was 21 but both 
times he was told to “shut up.” Dobbins was 
taken to the Public Safety Building and put 
into a cell along with sixty-six other people 
who had been arrested in the raid. He stayed in 
jail from 1:30 am to 5:00 am. He made several 
more attempts to tell the police that he was not 
a minor, but each time he was again told to 
“shut up.” At 5:00 am Dobbins was taken 
before the judge and asked whether he wanted 
to plead guilty. He asked what the charge was 
since he was not a minor. At this point, the 
police asked to see his ID. He showed them his 
New Hampshire Drivers Licence and the 
charges were dismissed. After several more 
hours of processing. Dobbins was finally put 
on a bus back to CMU.
There are also accusations that students not 
involved in the parties were arrested. Pika 
brother Paul Pan, 20, had been working on an 
assignment in one of the computer clusters. He 
returned just as the raid began. Despite at­
tempting to tell the officers that he had not 
been at the party, he was arrested and was held 
at the Public Safety Building until the the 
arraignment. At that point the charges were 
dismissed. Pan commented that “|The police! 
have been watching too much T. V. They were 
slamming people around.”
Another Pika brother reportedly was in his 
continued on page 4
This is the last issue of the Tartan for 
this semester. We will return Janu­
ary 19. Good luck with finals.
photo by Andy Gilleapie
Phi Kappa Alpha President Evan Kaliner is thrown into a paddy wagon bj city police. He was charged with two ¦«demeanors.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—November 24,1987
///V ' ^|k vv/MTU «WMI>W ) mm
wui ^f tn««wwi.r/ con Mir»
usTAyvP usRbO2I0OIvR 
oRRy yE ,hg«Tgg ’2ROyn
GENEVA (AP) — Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eduard A. Shevardnadze and U.S. Secretary 
of State George P. Shultz met here yesterday 
to finalize work on an arms treaty and to 
prepare for the superpower summit.
U.S. chief arms negotiator Max M. Kampel- 
man and his Soviet counterpart, Yuli M. 
Vorontsov, met early last week to resolve last- 
minute complications before an agreement on 
elimination of the missiles by the Dec. 7 
summit between President Reagan and Soviet 
Leader Mikhail Gorbachev.
Though the negotiators resolved a major 
sticking point in the way of the treaty to ban 
intermediate-range nuclear missiles, two 
tough verification issues remain unsettled.
Officials, who demanded anonymity, said 
the negotiators in Geneva had agreed the 
treaty would not call for follow-on arms con­
trol negotiations.
That appears to be a victory for the U.S. side 
since the Soviet demand for the provision was 
seen as an apparent effort to limit American 
aircraft in Europe. .
The treaty deals only with land-based mis­
siles. The U.S. planes are considered dual- 
capable—able to carry nuclear weapons or 
perform as tactical fighters. The west Euro­
pean allies consider the planes vital to defense 
against Soviet aggression.
a2Ox cyyO«Hg a2O0hO0 
dT«ARO2 MEQR2 MAO0y
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) — Iraq had at­
tacked Iran’s unfinished 1,200-megawatt 
Bushehrnuclearfacility Tuesday. Tehran said
11 people were killed in that attack, including 
a key nuclear plant expert and a West German 
engineer.
Iran first said the Tuesday attack could have 
triggered a Chernobyl-like radiation disaster, 
but later backed away from that claim.
Iraq said its ground batteries downed two 
Iranian F-5 warplanes that flew over Iraq on 
separate missions in the northern Kurdistan 
province.
Tehran’s official Islamic Republic News 
Agency, also monitored in Cyprus, said an 
unspecified number of Iranian warplanes to­
day bombed military installations in Aqra, 35 
miles from the border. But Baghdad said its 
ground fire downed two of the planes and 
chased off others before they could attack any 
target.
a0IhO0 LTIpR uRy yE 
u«sRITAR YsENOA ’2hOA
BHOPAL, India (AP) — India and Union 
Carbide Corp. failed Wednesday to reach a 
settlement in the Bhopal gas disaster case, and 
a judge ordered both sides to appear on Nov. 27 
to schedule a trial.
Attorneys for both sides said they would 
continue efforts to reach an out-of-court agree­
ment in the world’s worst industrial accident, 
which the government said left 2,660 people 
dead.
“I had come today with the expectation of 
hearing good news about a settlement, but now
I am deeply disappointed,” District Judge 
M.W. Deo said during a 15-minute hearing at 
the Bhopal courthouse.
He said the Nov. 27 session would be “to fix 
the schedule” for trying the case. Lawyers said 
in interviews that Deo probably would set a 
date then for preliminary hearings to begin.
The Indian government sued Union Carbide 
for $3 billion last year after refusing a $350 
million out-of-court settlement.
The government says 2,660 people died and 
another 40,000 were injured when lethal 
methyl isocyanate gas leaked from a pesticide 
plant operated by a Carbide subsidiary on Dec.
3, 1984.
The Indian suit claims the accident resulted 
from negligence by the multinational com­
pany. Union Carbide says it was caused by 
sabotage.
oEg«EQ MO2yn YEgg 
dOURI ’E Bhps MEgy
MOSCOW (AP) — Boris N. Yeltsin, who 
was ousted a week ago as head of the Moscow 
Communist Party organization, was given a 
top government job with the rank of minister, 
the official Tass news agency reported.
Yeltsin has been appointed first deputy 
chairman of the newly reorganized Soviet 
State Committee for Construction, Tass said.
Tass said Yeltsin will serve as a minister, 
meaning that he ranks among the heads of 
other government agencies although he is not 
the top official of the new construction ‘super- 
ministry.’ Several ministries responsible for 
building materials and construction were 
combined earlier this year to streamline gov­
ernment operations.
The appointment restores a degree of pres­
tige to Yeltsin, who was ousted from his party 
post for allegedly putting personal ambitions 
ahead of the needs of the party and the Soviet 
people.
Yeltsin, 56, was removed as head of the 
Moscow party organization last Wednesday 
after Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev led a 
panel of party officials in denouncing him. 
Yeltsin allegedly had criticized Gorbachev’s 
management style and the pace of his reforms.
FUTURE
TALK
If you’re talking about a future in information management, you’re talking 
Northern Telecom.
We’re the world’s largest supplier of fully digital telecommunications systems. 
And we have careers for new graduates in engineering and computer science, 
as well as in marketing, accounting, finance, business systems and human 
resources. Besides competitive salaries, we offer superb benefits and great 
locations.
Let’s talk about your future. A representative will be on your campus 
Tuesday, January 12,1988. Contact us when we visit your campus, or consult 
your college placement office. We are an equal opportunity employer
m/f/h/v.
ixt
northernfclccom
dRpEyhOyE2g >E2pR 
YTIpRy 1EUN2EUhgR
WASHINGTON (DJ) — After four weeks 
of negotiations, congressional leaders and the 
White House reached a compromise on a defi­
cit reduction plan on Friday, the deadline set 
by the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction bill.
Speaking to reporters at the White House, the 
president called the plan a “good solid begin­
ning,” that meets the country’s short-term 
concerns and lays the groundwork for long­
term solution to the nations budget problems. 
Reagan was flanked by congressional leaders 
as he spoke.
President Reagan said that the deficit reduc­
tion package is “sending the right message at 
the right time” that the U.S. has the will to 
bring its deficits under control.
House speaker James Wright lauded the 
deficit agreement, but emphasized that it isn’t 
“painless” and isn’t “cosmetic.”
Senate majority leader Robert Byrd also 
praised the budget plan calling it “a good 
message to send to the markets and to the 
people.”
The bipartisan agreement would cut the fed­
eral budget deficit by about $30 billion in 
fiscal 1988 and a further $45 billion in fiscal
1989.
The president said that while the compro­
mise accord does not contain the specifics of 
what taxes will be enacted, “there has been an 
agreement on the kind of taxes it won’t be.”
Reagan characterized the contemplated tax 
measures as not involving income taxes and as 
measures that would not be deleterious to the 
economy.
a2O0k1E0y2O WRNE2y 
12hyh«OA Eq WROpO0
WASHINGTON — The congressional 
committees investigating the Iran/Contra af­
fair released their final report Wednesday. The 
document placed a substantial portion of the 
blame on the President.
“The ultimate responsibility for the events in 
the Iran/Contra affairs must rest with the presi­
dent,” the report concluded. The panels also 
stated that “the president’s actions and state­
ments contributed to the deception” of Con­
gress and the public.
The 690-page report marks the conclusion of 
the committees’ work and is a product of 
weeks of testimony taken over the summer.
None of the House committee’s and all but 
three of the Senate’s Republican members
rejected the conclusions and issued a minority 
report.
White House officials now feel that the scan­
dal is behind them. The only remaining vestige 
of the affair is the independent prosecutor’s 
investigation.
President Reagan is preparing written re­
sponses to questions from independent prose­
cutor Lawrence Walsh regarding the 
president’s role in the Iran-Contra scandal, the 
White House said.
The president is expected to answer the 
questions submitted to the White House more 
than a month ago “within a couple of weeks” 
with the help of White House counsel A.B. 
Culvahouse.
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater 
said Walsh hasn’t asked to interview the presi­
dent or question him under oath, but the 
spokesman declined to elaborate about details 
of the questions were submitted. The court- 
appointed prosecutor’s office declined to 
comment on the matter.
Walsh has been criticized for allowing the 
president to submit written answers rather 
than having him be questioned orally.
f2pO0 ’2O0gNAO0y 
1E0y2EbR2gn 1E0yh0TRg
PITTSBURGH — The controversy over 
Maria DeSillers bill with Children’s Hospital 
continued last week as she gave a tour of her 
apartment for reporters.
The hospital is suing her for $261,000 in 
unpaid bills for her son Ronnie’s three liver 
transplants. Hundreds donated money for the 
transplants, including President Reagan.
Pittsburgh newspapers revealed Wednesday 
that DeSillers had failed to pay $100 owed on 
an Oakland apartment as well as other unpaid 
loans and bills.
She has come under fire for mismanaging the 
funds donated for her son’s operations. 
Though contributors donated $450,000, De­
Sillers told reporters only $196,000 was left.
DeSillers maintains that she will not pay the 
bill until the hospital answers questions about 
her son’s last transplant. She questions the 
quality of the last organ.
University of Pittsburgh professor Dr. Tho­
mas E. Starzl, who performed the transplants, 
described the operations as “perfect.”
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection..................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid........................................................................ 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page 3 '
uyTIR0ymg ,ROys 
a0bRgyhpOyRI
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Following the death of Carnegie Mel­
lon student Thomas Lee Godfrey, alle­
gations have surfaced which claim that 
his death was a homicide rather than a 
suicide as first suspected by authorities.
According to WPXI reporter Andy 
Gassmire, Godfrey’s parents do not 
believe that their son willfully jumped 
from the Schenley Park Bridge on No­
vember 8. They recently visited the Al­
legheny County Coroner who per­
formed the autopsy on Godfrey. They 
made clear their desire that the cause of 
death be changed from a suicide to a 
homicide. Coroner Floyd Coals, who is 
on a leave of absence, was not available 
for comment and Deputy Coroner Jim 
Gregris refused to comment on the case.
However, further reports indicate that 
Coals is adamant about continuing the 
murder investigation.
MCS Approves 7:30 am Exams
If it ain’t rainin’...
Snow returned to Pittsburgh last week,as can be seen in this picture of Doherty Hall
photo by Suvro Datta
members also noted that many students must 
work at night to pay for college.
Last March, the MCS Undergraduate Cur­
riculum Committee sent the subcommittee's 
report to the Educational Policy Committee - 
and the Educational Affairs Council of the 
Faculty Senate. They asked both groups to ) 
look for possible solutions to the “essentially l 
unregulated proliferation of classes, exams, : 
recitations, and review sessions scheduled for 
evening hours.” When no satisfactory action 
was taken by this fall, the committee reconve­
ned the subcommittee to examine possibilities i 
for unilateral action by MCS.
On October 29, the subcommittee submitted 
the proposal which was passed Friday. The ; 
first of it’s three main points simply called for » 
the college to abide by the ban on scheduling i 
academic activities between 4:30 and 6:30. 
The second point asks “That no exams, re­
quired help sessions, or required recitation r 
sessions be scheduled during the evening 
hours, commencing with 6:30 pm except those t 
given as part of the regularly scheduled eve­
ning classes.”
The third point of the proposal will undoubt­
edly be the most controversial. In it. the com­
mittee suggested that professors who need to 
give exams at a time other that the usual class i 
time use the hour between 7:30 and 8:20 am on 
weekdays. The proposal states that this time 
slot would be off limits for any academic 1 
activities other than tests in large classes. The 
proposal also points out the necessity of open- ’ 
ing one of the dining facilities early to allow • 
students to eat breakfast before their exams. ;
The college council is not certain whether 
7:30 exams will be a permanent change.
The college council believes that students J 
will accept the 7:30 exams. The primary ad- - 
vantage cited is that freshmen whose sched- • 
ules are made up of the large core classes will I 
never have more than one major exam in a day.
A second advantage mentioned is that pro­
fessors will be compelled to write shorter tests 
than they might have for an evening exam. The 
council feels that a professor who knows that ' 
the exam room is scheduled for a class at 8:30 
and that many of his students have other 
classes to attend will be less inclined to write 
a lengthy exam.
It is not yet known what impact MCS' deci­
sion will have on the other three undergradu­
ate colleges. None of them have announced 
yet whether they plan to follow suit.“The Courier” Speaks on Central America
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Robert Owen, Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North’s courier, gave 
Carnegie Mellon students and faculty a first-hand glimpse into 
the Iran/Contra scandal when he spoke Wednesday in the 
Ballroom.
As the first lecturer sponsored by the Political Speakers 
Forum Board, Owen contrasted the junior spy that he seemed 
to be when he testified under limited immunity before Con­
gress this summer.
Before the Iran/Contra committees, the boy-faced Owen re­
counted tales of errands he ran for America’s favorite Marine. 
Working under the code name “TC” for “The Courier," Owen 
carried money, maps, and guns for the Contras. North’s code 
name was “BG” for “Blood and Guts.”
Owen treated his audience here to the first half of what Sen. 
Warren Rudman called “the one-two punch”—Oliver North's 
slide show. North would show groups a slickly-produced slide 
show on Soviet expansionism in Central America, specifically 
Nicaragua. On several occasions North was followed by a 
fund-raiser for the Contras.
The first slide showed U.S. shipping routes in the Caribbean 
and Central America to demonstrate the strategic importance 
of the area.
The next several slides described the Soviet military buildup 
in the region. These were followed by a short history lesson on 
the invasion of Grenada.
The thrust of the presentation came with the slides on Nica­
ragua. Owen contended that the Sandinistas have established a
NsEyE Gn ZO2A YO20sO2y
Robert Owen, LL Cot North’s courier, makes a point about 
Central America last Wednesday.
Marxist state and a Soviet base in this hemisphere.
His remarks differed insignificantly from those of Col. 
North, who described each slide to the Iran/Contra commit­
tees. Owen did add several anecdotes from his trips to 
refugee camps in Central America.
He credited the Contras for bringing the Sandinistas into 
the current round of peace negotiations. He called for contin­
ued U.S. support of the Contras to maintain military pressure 
on the Soviet-backed Sandinistas.
He also took the same position as the minority report of the 
Iran/Contra committees — no laws were broken in the affair 
and the Boland Amendment, which prohibited funding to 
the Contras in 1986, was unconstitutional.
He called the majority's conclusions “a very partisan re­
port.” He echoed President Reagan’s statement that "mis­
takes were made.”
The California native spent 1979-80 in a refugee camp in 
Thailand. Cambodians have flooded into Thailand since the 
early 1970s. Vietnamese troops have occupied Cambodia 
since 1979. Owen said he had “seen what the tyranny of the 
left had done to three countries in Southeast Asia."
In 1967 Owen’s brother, an employee of the State Depart­
ment, was killed in Vietnam at age 21.
Spumed by the CIA, Owen was working for a Washington- 
based public relations firm when North recruited him to be 
his courier for Central America.
He has spoken at roughly 18 schools, in part to pay his legal 
fees. At present he is affiliated with the National Forum 
Foundation.
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Friday, Nov. 20, the MCS college coun­
cil passed a proposition allowing professors to 
give hour exams at 7:30 am beginning next 
semester. The plan is an attempt to counteract 
the growing problem of conflicts between 
night exams and other student obligations.
Earlier this fall, Carnegie Mellon University 
President Richard Cyert sent out a directive 
noting the growing disregard for the university 
leisure hours which are 4:30-6:30 pm on 
weekdays. These hours are supposed to be left 
free for student activities. However, many 
professors see these hours as a good time to 
schedule exams or review sessions without 
conflicts with other classes.
Even before the directive was sent out, a 
subcommittee of the Mellon College of Sci­
ence college council had been looking into the 
problems involved in scheduling exams for 
large classes. The main focus of their study 
was the MCS core courses—calculus, chemis­
try, physics, and biology—which are taken in 
the same semester by most of the freshman 
class. Because of the number of students in 
these classes and the fact that there are often
multiple lecture times, professors find it hard 
to schedule a single exam time for the whole 
class. Many professors do not like to give the 
same test at different times because they are 
concerned about students sharing information 
about the questions. The limited number of 
classrooms sufficiently large enough to spread 
students out adds to the problem of giving the 
test to the entire class at one time.
Until now, one of the only ways for a profes­
sor to give a single exam at a single time was 
to schedule it at night.
The committee studying the problem of 
exam times felt that night time tests were 
becoming too common. In the fall 1986 se­
mester, 70 exams or review sessions were 
scheduled after 5:00 pm. Of these, 36 are for 
100 level courses which are made up largely of 
freshmen. The committee noted that over 80 
undergraduate courses are offered at night and 
the possibility of conflict with night exams is 
high. They specifically cited Computing 
Skills Workshop which is nearly exclusively a 
freshman class and often meets at night.
The committee’s other major objection to 
evening exams was conflict with extracurricu­
lar activities and student jobs. Committee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—-The Tartan—November 24,1987
Fraternity Parties Raided, 150 Carnegie Mellon Students Arrested
continued from page 1
room on the third floor with the door slightly 
open when the raid occurred. He was arrested 
and ended up pleading guilty to underage 
drinking. Other Pika brothers say that he was 
not drinking but pleaded guilty to avoid being 
put back into the cell.
Many people who were at the arraignments 
have charged that anyone who refused to plead 
guilty or asked for a breathalizer test or a 
lawyer was threatened with being held longer. 
Pika brother Kai Mebust said that “If you 
didn’t want to plead guilty they wanted to 
throw you back in jail.” Another Pika brother 
stated, “there were a lot of people who weren’t 
drinking that ended up being coerced.”
Many of those arrested also complained that 
they were not read their rights or told what they
were being charged with until they arrived at 
the Public Safety Buliding, if ever. Kaliner 
told The Tartan that “Every time I said some­
thing [to ask what was going on] he’d [a 
policeman assigned to watch him] say ‘Shut 
up or I’m going to charge you with obstruc­
tion.’. .. I couldn’t get an answer.” Kaliner also 
claims that none of the people arrested for 
selling to minors and selling without a licence 
were ever read their rights, a procedure re­
quired by law.
Many Pika members are upset by the fact that 
the police chose to raid them this wed: because 
the money being collected at the door was to be 
donated to Students Against Multiple Sclero­
sis (SAMS). Kaliner noted that “The thing 
that’s really depressing is that this is a fun­
draiser. We don’t even reimburse ourselves
for the beer. We pay for the beer and every­
thing we collect at the door goes right to the 
charity.” Pika collected about $350 for SAMS 
but Kaliner contends that the police confis­
cated $ 150-$200 which he has not been able to 
track down.
Kristine Stringer, president of the Carnegie 
Mellon chapter of SAMS agrees with 
Kaliner’s estimate of the amount of money 
missing. Stringer expressed the feeling that 
“The police were completely out of bounds.” 
She explained that ova- the last three years 
many fraternities have had parties where do­
nations to SAMS were requested at the door. 
Last week’s DTD party, which was infiltrated 
by undercover policemen, was also a SAMS 
party. Both Stringer and many of the people 
who were present at the Pika party stated that
Security Provides Nighttime Safety Tips
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
As the days get shorter, students are more 
likely to be traveling at night. Because of this, 
they are much more susceptible to crime both 
on and off campus. There are ways to reduce 
your chances of being a victim.
The university operates two different types 
of transportation for students to areas sur­
rounding the university. The first type is a 
shuttle service. The shuttle operates from 7 am 
until 11:30 pm on weekdays and 11 am to 
11:30 pm on weekends. It leaves from the 
Skibo parking lot on the hour and half hour. 
The shuttle arrives at five minute intervals at 
Marybelle Apartments, Mellon Institute/ 
Shirley Apartments, Hampshire Hall, Tudor 
and Carol Apartments, Fifth Avenue and 
South Aiken, and back to Skibo. Students may 
also board the shuttle at any of these stops. 
Passengers are advised to expect a few min­
utes variation in the schedule to allow for
traffic conditions. On weekdays, there is no 
shuttle at 10 am or 6 pm because of lunch and 
dinner breaks.
The university also offers a “demand” escort 
service. Students may request a ride to their 
off-campus housing within a 1 1/2 mile radius 
of campus. The service does not provide trans­
portation to campus. Sunday through Thurs­
day the escort service operates between 6:30 
pm and 3:30 am. On Friday and Saturday, the 
service runs from 6:30 pm to 2:30 am. There is 
no specific schedule. Instead, the van returns 
to the parking lot entrance of Skibo between 
trips and makes another run whenever there 
are enough passengers.
According to the Carnegie Mellon Campus 
Police, there are usually enough people wait­
ing for the van to make trips nearly continu­
ously. While the usual departure point is the 
Skibo parking lot, the van makes a special stop 
at Hunt library at 3 am Sunday through Thurs­
day. Students may also arrange to be picked up
FEATURSS
Full time & Part time 
drivers neededOPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Call us about fund raising!
•FREE PIZZA! save12/?’s
from the top of the pizza boxes and get a large
cheese pizza or a small 1 topping pizza FREE!
• 10% OFF any order with college ID 
for students and faculty (no coupon needed)
• 10% Discount is valid with all our coupons
• 10% Discount with competitions coupons!
• We honor all OUR COMPETITIONS COUPONS 
in our delivery area!
Hours
M-TH 11 am -12 am 
F-S 11 am -1 am 
Sun 1 pm -10 pm
7?sT*sp,ifir.
15% OFF 
ANY ORDER 
WITH COLLEGE ID
Good thru 12-31-87
682-2772
4710 Baum Blvd. 
Oakland/Shadyside
362-9800
6123 Penn Ave.
E. Liberty/Homewood
HsrtaPizf*-
20% OFF our
•LASAGNA 
•MANICOTTI 
•STUFFED SHELLS 
plus A FREE DRINK 
Good thru 12-31-87
Wfmpsîk
2 FREE 
TOPPINGS
on a 
PAN PIZZA 
Good thru 12-31-87
from any campus building at any time while 
the escort service is running by calling 268- 
2333.
If you do need to walk after dark, there are 
ways to do so more safely. Sgt. Bill Ricci of the 
Carnegie Mellon police department offers the 
following tips for traveling at night.
1. Travel in a group. Criminals are less likely 
to bother groups of people. While a large 
number of people is best, walking with even 
one other person will help.
2. Stay on main, well traveled streets. Crimi­
nals are less apt to attack someone in full view 
of witnesses. Even if it adds distance to the 
trip, it is well worth it.
3. If one side of the street is better lighted than 
the other, walk on that side. It is also a good 
idea to cross the street if it will help you avoid 
parked cars, trees, and other objects which will 
block your view of the surrounding area.
4. Know the route you are traveling. You 
should know the locations of pay phones or 
businesses that stay open late in case you need 
help. When you are on campus, you should be 
aware of the direct line phones to campus 
security.
5. Be alert to your surroundings. You should 
look from side to side and occasionally check 
behind you. You will be better prepared to 
avoid or deal with a situation which does not 
take you by surprise.
6. Keep your valuables hidden. There is no 
reason to tempt potential muggers.
7. Do not listen to a headphone radio while 
you walk. A headphone radio will make it 
harder to hear the world around you. Besides 
being less likely to hear someone sneaking up, 
you are less likely to hear cars and other 
hazards. In addition, radios make an ideal 
target for theft. They are easy to grab and easy 
to conceal.
There are also additional hints which 
women, in particular, should be aware of. It is 
a good idea to avoid restrictive clothing (such 
as long, confining skirts and high heeled 
shoes) or clothing which is easy to grab. These 
types of clothing will hamper your ability to 
protect yourself or run if you are attacked. 
Also, a purse should always be held under your 
arm rather than allowing it to hang at your side. 
If the purse has a flap, turn that side toward 
yourself. These precautions will make it 
harder for someone to snatch your purse or its 
contents.
If you are interested in learning to protect 
yourself, Sgt. Ricci offers a course in karate. 
Next semester the class will be held on Tues­
days and Thursdays from 2 to 3:20 pm in 
Thistle Hall. There are still spaces left in the 
class. For more information on the class, con­
tact the Physical Education Department.
If you would like more information on crime 
prevention, call Security at x2323 or stop by 
their office in 155 Baker Hall. For more infor­
mation about either the shuttle or the escort 
service, call x2333 or inquire in their office on 
the lower level of Skibo, just inside the doors 
facing the parking lot.
they feel the charge of selling alcohol without 
a license is unfounded because people were 
not required to pay in order to attend the party, 
and the fraternity was not keeping any of the 
money.
Although Stringer did not think SAMS was 
legally liable for the Pika party, she said she 
“feels bad” because of the connection to 
SAMS. Stringer says that she is going to O 
contact the national office of SAMS to see if 
the group can assist in any way.
Late Sunday night, Kaliner told The Tartan 
that the administration has hinted that they will 
assist the eleven fraternity members facing 
serious charges with their legal defense. Ka­
liner is scheduled to meet Monday with Cam- 
pana, Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter, 
andothers in the administration to work out the * )
details.
The Tartan attempted to contact the officials 
involved in the raid to obtain their side of die 
story. At press time, all efforts have been 
unsuccessful
1O0IhIOyR M2EqhARD 
Y2T«R C! YOGGhyy
Election 
’88 NmM
No, Bruce E. Babbitt isn’t the title 
character of a Sinclair Lewis novel; 
he’s a Democrat running for president 
He’s the candi­
date from the 
West—the for­
mer governor 
of Arizona.
Being a moderate Democrat in the uL 
traconservative state that produced 
Barry Goldwater was no easy trick. In 
fact Babbitt woke up one morning and 
unexpectedly found himself governor.
In 1977 the elected governor resigned 
to become ambassador to Argentina. 
When the secretary of state who re­
placed him suddenly died in 1978, At­
torney General Bruce Babbitt leap­
frogged into the governor’s mansion.
Babbitt was reelected later that year 
and again in 1982, as he established 
himself as an effective executive.
In 1980 he was successful in passing 
legislation that protects the water sup­
ply in his arid state. His state of, the 
union address in 1985 was dedicated 
entirely to the protection and education 
of children.
Trained in geophysics, Babbitt 
changed his plans after touring mines in 
Boliva. In the 1960s he attended Har­
vard Law School and was an active civil 
rights lawyer in Washington, D.C.
In domestic policy Babbitt proposes a 
tax on Social Security and Medicare 
benefits for high-income families. With 
the funds that these taxes would pro­
duce, Babbitt would extend entitle­
ments to the truly needy.
Babbitt belongs to the “hawk” wing of 
the Democratic Party. He supported the 
invasion of Grenada and the Reagan 
Administration’s policy in El Salvador. 
He opposed funding to the Contras—he 
feels that they are ineffectual and only 
strengthen the Sandinista’s hold on 
Nicaragua.
He is more concerned with Mexico 
and the economic problems south of the 
border. Fluent in Spanish, Babbitt is 
sure to capture some of the Hispanic 
vote.
What will come back to haunt him: In 
1983 he used the National Guard to 
break a bitter strike by the United Steel­
workers at a Phelps-Dodge plant. 
Dubbed “Governor Scabbitt,” he is not 
popular with an important faction in the 
Democratic party—organized labor.

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page 5
ECE Forum: Are Science and Religion Compatible?
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
On Thursday, November 19, the ECE (Elec­
trical and Computer Engineering) Forum pre­
sented a debate in Gregg Hall about one of the 
more controversial topics since the theory of 
evolution was proposed by Darwin: Are sci- 
ff ence and religion compatible? Speaking for 
pro-science was the Associate Head of ECE, 
James Hoburg, and professor Bruce Krogh, 
also of the ECE department, had the tougher 
role of defending religion.
Krogh presented his arguments first, claim­
ing that true religion and true faith were indeed 
compatible and in fact necessary for the mod­
em world. His first point was that faith and 
science are based on the same essence, that 
being acceptance. Although science is seem­
ingly “proven” by documented experiments, 
the data never match completely, but are none­
theless accepted anyway. In the same way, 
God cannot be “proven,” but could and should 
be accepted without hesitation.
He continued: “Science and faith say some­
thing about the same thing...they must be 
compatible...science and faith each lead to the 
conclusions about the same aspect of reality; 
they cannot ultimately contradict one an­
other.” To the assertion that what the Bible 
says and scientific evidence suggests blatantly 
contradict, he claimed that this was in re­
sponse to the way they viewed things then. 
Miracles are a prime example of how science 
and religion can coexist; some phenomenon 
cannot be explained by the closed system of 
science alone, and this is where religion comes 
in.
He closed his introduction by rejecting some 
aspects about science by stating that some­
times it is falsely justified; “It is rather reduc- 
tionism, the pompous, nothing-buttery of sci­
entism, which says that all it is is nothing but
matter and energy studied at the scientific 
level.” He added, “In fact, it doesn’t jive for me 
to believe that my experience with 
myself...my experience of relationship with 
others is all just illusions of chance ensemble 
of mass energy...every person believes that 
they have a choice.” He concluded by com­
menting that faith, along with science, allows 
us to understand things more completely: 
“There’s unity, not divergence.”
Hoburg began with a series of questions that 
he claims we cannot answer “from our own 
limited experience.” Science is not dogma, but 
an open-minded, honest, search for the truth. 
The existence of God is neither rejected nor 
accepted, as it is simply beyond our own 
capabilities to know. To cite an example: If a 
Supreme Being existed, “how did He come to 
being? Is He finite? Will He exist forever?” 
Assuming that there is a God only raises more 
questions.
He warned that “If a line of premise is ac­
cepted without objectivity, then the conclu­
sion is objectionable as well.” In response to 
Krogh’s claim that the existence of God ex­
plains a lot of things, he contends “because we 
want to know, we can convince ourselves that 
we do know.” Because we want the answers, 
we might be making ourselves believe there is 
a God, for His existence would provide expla­
nations for unexplainable phenomenon. “How 
can you know: Is there a Supreme Being?”
Following the remarks was an opportunity 
for a rebuttal. Krogh emphasized that accept­
ing something meant that we were comfort­
able with it. We check for logical consistency, 
check our own experiences, and accept God. 
He also remarked that diversity of religion 
does not indicate that there is no God: “They 
should loosen up and change the way we 
change our scientific position, if there’s data 
change, it’s time to rethink them.” Further­
1nR2y cNNEh0yg t0hbR2ghyn cyyE20Rn
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
President Richard Cyert announced Friday 
the appointment of Alvin P. Brannick as head 
of the Office of University Attorney. The 
Office will handle such legal matters as tenure 
problems, students’ rights, and litigation.
“I have long felt that and Office of the Uni­
versity Attorney has been necessary in this era 
of increased litigation,” explained Cyert in the 
announcement. The office will consolidate the 
legal affairs of the university into one office.
In addition to Brannick’s appointment, Dr. 
Linda G. Binstock was named as the Director 
of Legal Affairs in the Office of University
Attorney. Her duties will be to coordinate the 
work of the office, including assisting the 
resolution of legal disputes and reviewing 
legal documents.
Brannick will continue to serve as Vice 
President for Development. The day-to-day 
responsibilities of the development division 
will be handled by the assistant vice presi­
dents, David L. Maloney and David A. Dales- 
sandro.
Dr. Binstock is currently Director for Federal 
Compliance.
A number of legal matters, including patents 
and intellectual properties, will continue to be 
handled by the Provost’s Office.
Senate Nominates Chairmen
By JEFFERY S. HAVRILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Nominations were held for new chairmen of 
various committees at the Student Senate 
meeting on Tuesday, November 17.
Erica Levy and Vidal Graupera were nomi-
* nated for the position of chairman of senate.
The committee nominees are as follows: 
Chairman of Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina 
and Mark Steppel; Chairman of Campus Af­
fairs: Glenn Kombrek; Chairman of Funding 
and Recognition: Tamal Mukherjee and Char­
les Jainchill; Chairman of Public Relations: 
Laura Gallo; and Chairman of Rules: Peter 
Berger and Allen Greenberg.
More nominations and elections are planned 
to be held during the next meeting on Dec. 1.
Delia Vayansky, the Student Dormitory 
Council representative, announced that the 
Tartan Grill is donating 25 cents to MS for 
each large soft drink sold as part of the Stu­
dents Against Multiple Sclerosis (SAMS) fun­
draiser.
Delia also discussed an issue concerning the
more, scientific theory is based on probability 
and chance, and is accepted without fully 
being proven completely.
Hoburg replied to this with the example of 
the laws of physics. Although Krogh’s asser­
tions may be true here, we obviously believe in 
them enough to risk our lives with them every 
day. Again, he stressed that “We have no sense 
in how big things are...we can’t assess, no one 
knows.”
Then there was a question and answer ses­
sion, with some insightful comments from the 
audience. One commented that God created 
free will, therefore, he created a world that 
couldn’t been proved. Another asked why
anyone should trust the scientists who per­
formed the experiments for the theory of rela­
tivity, for example, and not trust people who 
say God exists (to this, Hoburg replied that 
“scientists are objective people...they are 
looked differently”). Another suggested that 
the notion that God exists was different from 
the existence of other things, in the same way 
that the number three might differ from a door 
one might see.
Krogh recommended that it is often reveal­
ing and enlightening to read and learn about 
the other side of the argument, especially with 
arguments like these. Hoburg agreed, and the 
debate ended, unsettled, as expected.
the Housing Office’s policy on entering stu­
dent rooms. As stated on page 19 of the 1987- 
88 Residence Halls manual, “the University 
may authorize entrance to an accommodation 
if convinced that a clear and present danger 
exists or suspects that a violation of University 
regulations requires such entrance.” In addi­
tion, Housing reserves the right toenter“at any 
time to inspect facilities or to plan or carry out 
repairs and maintenance...without prior an­
nouncement.”
Allen Greenberg said he felt Mike Murphy, 
the Assistant Director of Housing, was sincere 
in his effort to modify the policy.
Academic Affairs chairman Lisa Christina 
reported that the Music Department does not 
fund the Kiltie Band. This does not prevent 
music majors from joining the band for aca­
demic credit but does require non-music ma­
jors to pay a substantial fee.
Also discussed were proposals for 24-hour 
food facilities, covered bicycle racks, con­
doms in vending machines, and the march on 
Washinton for the freeing of Soviet Jewry.
NsEyE Gn uTb2E ,OyyR
Professors James Hoburg and Bruce Krogh debate the role of religion in science. The 
debate, held in Gregg Hall, was sponsored by the ECE department
Expulsion Was Recommended
’QE >2RgsUR0 WR«RhbR M2EGOyhE0 
>E2 12ROyh0p >OHR •Eph0 M2Ep2OU
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
Following prosecution from Academic 
Computing, two freshmen were sentenced 
last Friday, Nov. 20, for creating and run­
ning a fake login program on the Andrew 
computer system.
Joseph Traub, a computer science major 
from Maryland, and Chris Newman, an 
electrical and computer engineering major 
from Seattle, were placed on disciplinary 
probation, had their Andrew accounts 
removed for a semester and are required to 
take and pass an ethics course.
Newman, the program’s author, ex­
plained, “I wrote this program which pre­
tended to be the standard login screen for 
Andrew, and when somebody logged in, it 
recorded their user ID and password and 
said the login was incorrect” After running 
the program for only two days, on Oct. 22, 
at around midnight, a Software Engineer­
ing Institute staffmember discovered the 
fake login program running from Traub’s 
account.
According to Traub, he was caught after 
he tried to save the program and logout, and 
an Andrew bug ran the program without in­
forming him.
The program was written to capture one 
ID and password after it s authors had 
logged off and then quit. Still, in two days, 
Newman was able to capture thirteen user 
IDs and passwords including a GSIA sys­
tem administrator’s.
When asked why he wrote the program, 
Newman replied, “I hadn't used C [a pro­
gramming language] in a year and wanted 
a simple program to get used to it.” He 
contended that he did nothing malicious; he 
simply looked through some of the ac­
counts he captured. After getting a friend’s 
password, Newman inserted a file telling 
the individual to “Change your password.”
After the program was discovered, it was 
reported to Chris Thyberg, a senior user 
consultant with Academic Computing, 
who prepared a report for Student Affairs. 
In addition, Traub’s and Newman's case 
was taken before a Student Disciplinary 
Council.
The Council, chaired by Associate Dean 
of Student Affairs Lois Cox and composed 
of two students and two faculty members, 
then sent their decision to Dean of Student 
Affairs Brad Walter who had the final 
decision.
According to the Student Handbook. 
Student Affairs had enough evidence to 
expel both Traub and Newman. In fact, 
Thberg’s report called for their expulsion, 
but because their actions weren’t mali­
cious, and they were cooperative after they 
got caught, the punishment was reduced.
Neither Traub nor Newman had read the 
Student Handbook before they were 
caught. “I hadn 't even looked at the Student 
Handbook. I got it and tossed it on the 
shelf—like everybody else,” commented 
Traub.
Traub and Newman were both satisfied 
with the decision; neither plan an appeal.
Neither Walter nor Thyberg would com­
ment.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—November 24, 1987
12hUR O0I a0«hIR0yD eekei yE eekel
11/14 BURGLARY 6:00 pm Female stu­
dent reported that $400 worth of camera 
equipment had been stolen from her room in 
Roselawn Apartments.
11/15 SPECIAL 5:47 pm CMU security 
recovered an abandoned out of state rental car 
on the Boundry Street railroad tracks. Two 
males were taken in. A city investigation 
showed that the car had not been stolen. The 
suspects said that the car had been rented by a 
friend who was not present at the time. The 
men were released.
11/17 THEFT 11:00 am A sofa was stolen 
from the psychology department in Baker Hall 
336D. Security is investigating the incident.
11/17 THEFT 12:28 pm A female student 
reported that $40 had been taken from her 
wallet in Tudor Apartments. Student said she 
had an idea who the thief was.
11/17 THEFT 2:24 pm A graduate student 
left his wallet in his office in Margaret Morri­
son Hall while he was running. When he 
returned, $30 cash had been removed from the 
wallet.
11/18 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 9:30 am 
Persons unknown attempted'to break into a 
basement laboratory in the SEI building. Pry 
marks were found on the door.
11/18 FIRE 10:03 am A fire in a trash can on 
the first floor of Hunt Library was discovered 
and extinguished around 6:30 am. Apparently 
someone threw an empty cigarette pack and 
some scrap paper into the garbage and lit them. 
Security is investigating the incident.
11/18 THEFT 10:25 am Persons unknown 
broke into a locked desk in the Children’s 
school in Margaret Morrison Hall. $45 in cash 
was taken.
11/18 BURGLARY 11:56 am A student 
reported that his Mudge room had been bur­
glarized. Thief removed a security screen to 
enter the room. $40 cash, credit cards, cloth­
ing, jewelry, and camera equipment were 
taken. The value was reported at $900.
11/18 ATTEMPTED THEFT BY DE­
CEPTION 5:37 pm A KDR brother was ap­
proached by two white males outside his 
house. They said that their car was not running 
right and asked to borrow some money. The 
brother told the men to park their car and he 
would return with the money. The brother 
went inside and called the CMU police. The 
police came and IDed the men. They had no 
prior arrests or warrants with the city. Both 
men were released and warned to stay off 
Carnegie Mellon property or be arrested for 
trespassing.
11/18 SPECIAL 9:50 pm Two white males 
entered the GSIA trailers looking for rehearsal 
space. When the occupants of the trailer asked 
them to leave, they replied that the trailers 
were an eyesore and were on drama property. 
The occupants again asked the men to leave 
and they did so.
11/19 SPECIAL 7:04 pm A forklift wis 
discovered in DH D-200. It was determined 
that the forklift belonged in Mellon Institute 
4435. It has not been determined how the 
forklift got onto campus. Security is still in­
vestigating.
11/19 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNI­
CATION 8:23 pm Female students received 
annoying phone calls. Apparently their names 
had been put on a dating list.
11/19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 8:26 am 
Persons unknown broke into the field house 
behind Donner. The whirlpool was used and 
beer was consumed. Dirty clothes were scat­
tered around the laundry room and ten rolls of 
tape were taken.
oh0TyRg Eq uyTIR0y uR0OyRD dEb! e/e
Meeting called to order 7:20 pm.
Senators present: Berger, Christina, 
DeJoug, Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, Grau- 
pera, Greenberg, Hausman, Herrick, 
Jainchill, Jacowitz, Kombrek, Levine, 
Levy, Liu, Mukherjee, Pavlosky, Rao, 
Ruben, Neighbor, Sine, Sklar, Steppel, 
Zapf.
Ex-Officio Members Present: Ro-
bitshek, Skolkin, Vayansky.
Audience Participation: none.
SDC: Delia Vayansky: Tartan Grill is do­
nating $.25 to Multiple Sclerosis as part of 
the SAMS fundraiser for each large soft 
drink bought. Spoke with Mike Murphy, 
housing. Room Entering Policy page 19 
student handbook. Will enter upon clear 
and present danger and for maintenance re­
quests.
President: Andy Robitshek: If interested 
in helping with senior ball or senior gift tell 
Andy.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: New Sena­
tors fill out index cards. Referendum re­
sults read.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: none.
Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina: Last 
Lecture on December L Working on sur­
vey about teaching assistants. Liu: Music 
department not paying for Kiltie Band; 
however, music student can take it for 
credit and non-music majors must pay a lot 
to take lessons. Steppel looking into Kiltie 
Band.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: Liu 
discussed with Ed Lilley possibility of 
having a “Little Samba” in the spring. 
Greenberg and Kombrek will meet with
Mr. Schillo about the traffic problem. 
Committee discussed possibility of creat­
ing 24-hour coffee/food facilities in such 
places as Morewood Lounge, Morrison’s, 
UCC Lounge, Donner Lounge. Berger 
looking into this. Liu will call Design Con­
struction-covered bicycle racks.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Mukherjee: none.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: none.
Rules: none.
Old Business: none.
New Business: Nomination for commit­
tee chairmen: Chairman: Levy, Graupera. 
Academic Affairs: Christina, Steppel. 
Campus Affairs: Kombrek. Funding and 
Recognition: Mukherjee, Jainchill. Public 
Relations: Gallo. Rules: Berger, Green­
berg. Names of nominees will be posted on 
office door.
Points of discussion: Jainchill: Dec. 6 
buses from Hillel going to Washington to 
rally to free Soyiet Jewry. If interested call 
Rabbi Joe 621-8875. Condoms in vending 
machines discussed. WRCT News Forum 
—can call in about Tartan and Student Un­
ion, November 22,8:30 pm. November 23, 
8:30 pm Freedom of Speech—Gay Rights 
and AIDS.
Announcements: Campus Affairs to­
morrow 6 pm. Academic Affairs after 
meeting. Robert Owen lecture 4:30 Ball­
room. If been on Student Advisory Com­
mittee, AA needs ideas. Rules Thursday 9 
pm. Gallo: Please clean office. New IFC 
rep: IFC is working on Student Handbook, 
rules, fines for fall rush.
Meeting adjourned 8:15 pm.
EXCEPTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Best of Tomorrow
Today
wXv.v.vV.iw.v.vv.v.v.v.vTT
wXw»w.w.v-
ÿ.w.y.w
Engelhard helps make many of the products we use everyday even though the company name doesn’t ap­pear on most of them. Engelhard products and technologies help make the cars we drive, clothing we wear, food we eat, homes and offices and plants where we live and work, telephones and computers that make us efficient, magazines and books we read, pharmaceuticals and vitamins that keep us healthy. The company’s materials perform vital functions in a customer’s manufacturing process or serve critical purposes providing reliability, or giving a certain characteristic to the customer’s finished product. That’s why Engelhard is known as a Performance Products company. And why technology is so important in enabling the company to continue advancing the leading edge in quality to give us an advantage over competition by meeting the needs of customers in our markets. Engelhard is organized into two major operating divi­sions—Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Metals.
ENGELHARD IS COMING TO CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY!
All Engineering Graduate Assistants & PHD candidates, together with their faculty and staff, are invited to a reception from 7-9 P.M. December 3rd, at Skibo Hall, Room 13.
Recruiting Interviews December 4th, 1987(Contact Your Placement Office)
TTThVh
Engelhard is a Fortune 200 company offering employment opportunities that are unparalleled. Our 18-month Graduate Development Program provides new graduates with an excellent balance of process/project orien­tation and hands-on experiences. At Engelhard, you’ll gain valuable exposure to a rotation of operations process, maintenance, R & D, and developmental assignments. Plus, you will enjoy an environment that is conducive to your professional growth. To learn more about the career opportunities available, plan to meet with our representatives on campus. We’ll show you how Engelhard’s “exceptional technologies” can bringyou the best of tomorrow. . . today!
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

s snow covers the 
English countryside, the 
' great dining halls of 
medieval castles are filled with the 
sights, sounds and aromas of 
preparation for the Madrigal Feast. 
Yuletide in 16th century is a busy, 
happy occasion with celebrants 
gathering holly, ivy and pine to 
complete the tables, musicians 
rehearsing and cooks preparing the 
traditional boars head dinner, 
complete with the festive wassail 
bowl and flaming plum pudding.
But the food is not all that fills 
the evening with the joy that it 
brings. The Jester and jugglers 
practice their trades. The magicians 
prepare their newest feats of magi­
cal skill. The dancers perfect their 
routines. The singers choose their 
festive songs.
All of this ceremony and more 
will be brought to Carnegie Mellon 
as the fourth annual Madrigal Feast 
is held in the Great Dining Hall of 
Skibo Castle. The Department of 
Student Activities, Activities Board 
and the Department of Music invite 
you to join the Lords and Ladies, 
Renaissance musicians and Madri­
gal singers, dancers, jugglers and 
magicians for this festive occasion 
on Friday', December 4. Dress in 
your best 16th century or 20th 
century finery and join us for a 
Renaissance Feast served in the 
candlelit Skibo Ballroom. Presiding 
over the evening will be the Lord of 
Misrule, Ye Jester.
Friday, December 4, 19 8
Reception ... 6:00 pm, Skibo Lobby! 
Wherrett Room
Dinner ... 7:00 pm, Skibo Ballroom
Entertainment will be provided by the 
Cameron Choir and Friends... Ye guests 
are permitted to wear traditional clothe.
Dinner Menu:
Sparkling Apple Cider
Hearty Winter Salad
Roast Top Round of Beef with Madiera
Wine SauceBroccoli and Cauliflower Florettes
Parslied Red Potatoes
Sour dough and Pumpernickle Bread
with whipped butter
Cherries Jubilee
Choice of Beverage
Tickets:
Purchase at the Skibo Information Desk Tuesday. November 10-Wednesday, December 2
Monday through Friday, 9 am — 5 pm
$9.00 Non CMU Students $6.00 CMU Students 
$5.00 Children under JO years

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Advisors Should Be Better Advised
Registration brings with it not only long lines for class sign-up, but also 
appointments with faculty advisors who are supposed to give students advice 
about the next semester’s curriculum. But is this advice always well-founded?
In most departments, advisors are faculty members who are assigned a group 
of students who, ideally, are majoring in that faculty member’s field of expertise. 
But this can quite possibly be the extent of the advisor’s training.
Departments usually offer training sessions each year for advisors, in which 
they are told of changes in courses and degree requirements. However, these 
sessions are not mandatory, and faculty who have been advising students for 
many years may opt not to attend.
Advisors who blindly sign the R3D forms may be a blessing to those students 
who know which courses they want to take and don’t want to waste time 
convincing a faculty member, but those who are wrong are allowed to get by 
without the counseling they need.
The university recognizes this deficiency in competent advisors, as evidenced 
by this excerpt from the 1987 edition of The Word: “The quality of advising 
currently varies from excellent to extremely inadequate....A few [advisors] are 
primarily interested in their research projects...and don’t usually take the time 
to obtain even the most trivial curricular information.” It is outrageous that such 
statements can be made, and that steps are not being taken to rectify the situation.
An uninformed faculty advisor can be a major setback to a student who is 
unsure about his or her academic future. Often a bad advisor can be more of a 
problem to a student than a bad professor.
In order to assure adequate advising, faculty members should be required to 
attend training sessions which, if they don’t exist in some departments, should 
be created.
Advisor evaluations should be conducted semi-annually, just as Faculty/ 
Course Evaluations are. Questions should be concentrated on the advisor’s 
knowledge of the recommended curriculum, concern for the individual student, 
and willingness to discuss academic concerns. After all, although most students 
only see their advisors during registration, signing R3D forms is not their only 
purpose.
Departmental advisory centers should be set up, as is currently in operation in 
H&SS. This center has proven successful, and most students are happy with the 
results.
Only then can students be sure we are getting the guidance we deserve.
\/[Jpii*, l^é>
C f Oi
Letters:
_TOAhyn Eq •hqR WRNE2y CbEHRg uyTIR0y WRgNE0gR
Editor:
After reading the Student Senate’s report on 
the Quality of Life (don’t ask me why it’s 
always capitalized—I guess proper punctua­
tion doesn't apply to Senate reports), I was 
amazed. I never realized that there was so 
much available to improve the quality of my 
life. Ah, where to start...
I like the idea of a three week term in the 
middle of my winter vacation. Just imagine the 
myriad subjects that I could possibly, nay, be 
required, to take! I'm sure that they would be 
terribly enriching, as well as thorough. I al­
ways wanted to learn more about Buildings 
and Earthquakes (and I always thought that the 
latter just made the former fall down) or 
Managing Nuclear Wastes. I was never big on 
rest anyway—a nice three week trek back to 
Pittsburgh during the wonderful winter 
weather would improve my vacation im­
mensely.
Or maybe they should just require me to go to 
more lectures, performances, and open 
houses. I guess that's just what I need to get me 
out of my dorm room—Lord knows I'd rather 
do my work than go to something so overtly 
entertaining as a play. Besides, the require­
ment aspect would easily fit into my day, since 
my school work is so easy (hardly any home­
work, you know). I realize that this might take 
a bit more time out of my nights, but what the 
heck—I've been getting to bed by three far too 
much lately, so a couple of late nights won't 
hurt.
I’m not sure what they mean by “recruit a 
more diverse student body and to produce 
greater balance in the male/female ratio,” but 
I think that they mean to let more girls into 
CMU. Not sure why—I always thought that
there were enough as it is. I mean, why would 
any guy want more than two-thirds of a girl­
friend anyway?
Or maybe they mean that they’re going tolet 
more speakers on campus—again, I’m not 
sure why. If students learn too many view­
points, it messes up their ability to memorize 
facts and do problem sets and programs, and 
isn’t that why we’re here? Stuff like opinions 
just gums up the mental gears, so to speak—1 
can’t have that. Got to keep those wheels 
spinning. (Guess Senate ought to stop funding 
the Student Union for the same reason. And 
The Tartan. Maybe the radio station too— 
everyone knows that all they play is hardcore 
and experimental, anyway.)
I like the trailers on campus. It makes it seem 
like I’m camping out every day.
I do think that the sudden appearance of AB 
is a bit unsettling. Have they always been 
there? I mean, I knew that they sponsored the 
movies on campus, but I thought that was all 
they did. Who said that they could have con­
certs and stuff like that? Am I required to go to 
them?
I am happy that they’re keeping Tech House, 
although I'm surprised that Andy Robitshek is 
letting them move it. I thought that I heard 
something silly like the students voted to 
knock it down last year, but I guess that was 
just my imagination. That would have been the 
same election that made Robitshek Dictator, 
and I'm sure he (or I) wouldn’t forget some­
thing as relevant as that. Anyway, I'm glad it'll 
be with us for years to come, although I wish 
that they could spend more than a quarter 
million to move it. Couldn’t the engineering 
department come up with some huge mecha­
nized skateboard or something practical like
that? That way, if something as silly as a dorm 
needs to be built again, they can just wheel it 
out of the way. People could park under it, too.
Overall, I couldn’t be more happy with the 
quality of fife on campus. Who cares what U.S. 
News has to say anyhow? (What do those other 
college presidents know, anyway?) Actually,
I’m not sure why Senate is worried—the qual­
ity of life seems fine as it is. We’re all going to 
get jobs when we’re through, so why should 
we worry?
Dan Bidwa
Professional/Creative Writing ‘90
Less Work, More Time
Editor:
I wanted to write an insightful letter concern­
ing the quality of life at Carnegie Mellon but I 
didn’t have enough time.
But then isn't that the problem in the first 
place? We don’t have enough time to attend 
campus lectures or other events, or even write 
a thought-provoking letter to The Tartan. The 
Student Senate may not see the problem this 
way; students are not attending these campus 
events events so, in order to improve the qual­
ity of life, the senate suggests that we have 
required attendance (Is that what they’re 
doing? Forcing us to improve our lives the way 
they think we should?) This is not the problem. 
The problem is that there is not enough time to 
take advantage of whatever activities are 
available.
Why isn’t there enough time? It’s because 
there is too much work expected of us. Last 
year, according to the New York Times, Car­
negie Mellon was ranked second only to Cor­
nell in the amount of work expected of college 
students on American campuses; it’s no won­
der Cornell has the highest suicide rate. 
(Anybody know where Carnegie Mellon is 
ranked?) Sure maybe we can finish all of our 
work if we merely satisfy the minimum re­
quirements and avoid all “distractions” like 
improving the quality of life.
So the solution is to cut down on the amount 
of work expected of us, but the Student Senate 
can no better accomplish this than extend the 
number of hours in a day.
What about the cure-all solution: The Uni­
versity Center? After it is completed there will 
be plenty more activities available on campus 
that students will not have time to attend. Oh 
well.
Jay Margolis 
Applied Math/CS ‘89
The Quality of Life report has been reprinted, 
in its entirety, as a separate section 
in this issue of The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page '
Carnegie Mellon in Brazil
B«, I I CrDViV CPlIDriDTD ^ ^ „__i___„r ¦_ j._ n :i : . . i . ¦ • . _ .1____I . , , , , , . ...By J. J. SERVAN-SCHREIBER
Chairman, International Committee, CMU
Nov 16: WASHINGTON (DJ) — President 
Reagan ordered trade retaliation against Bra­
zil because of an unresolved dispute over 
Brazil’s import restrictions on computers and 
computer-related products.
Reagan said, “I intend to raise tariffs to 
offset the lost sales opportunitiesfor U.S. com­
panies, estimated at $105 million, and to pro­
hibit imports of Brazilian Informatics prod­
ucts covered by Brazil's market-reserve pol­
icy.”
I recently answered an invitation from the 
government of Brazil to speak with university 
and industry leaders at seven seminars in 
seven different cities, in one week, staying in 
Brasilia.
At the Ministry of 
Education, on the 
wide “Government 
Avenue” that crosses 
the capital, the fifty directors of the various de­
partments of education were gathered. We 
began a discussion of the means of educational 
computing from pre-school to college in their 
vast country.
The directors were aware of the need. 
Brazil’s population is 130 million. Half are 
under 18 years of age. Half of these are illiter­
ate. Despite dazzling breakthroughs in a
number of industries, Brazil is hobbled by 
illiteracy. If Brazil could mobilize its great but 
still inert human resources, it would set a 
critical example for the World.
Brazilians know they do not yet have the 
modem tools. They need computerized sys­
tems, work-stations, networks, educational 
software, tutoring systems, etc... They asked 
my view. I made a very short presentation:
“Underdeveloped Brazil must skip the in­
dustrial phase and enter the information era. 
You have many spectacular public works 
projects. But all that concrete, that steel, those 
iron girders, none of that will be of any value 
unless the young people are, first, educated.
“Experience shows that employment in­
creases around universities that have achieved 
excellence in the new sciences of knowledge. 
It happened in Silicon Valley (Stanford). It 
happened in New England (MIT). It’s happen­
ing in Pittsburgh, where it sparks renaissance 
around Carnegie Mellon and Pitt’s Medical 
School, with the complex of Institutes and 
research centers linked to them.
“Universities in cities like Sau Paulo, Rio, 
Recife, and Salvador could provide Brazil 
with its own version of the computerized 
campus, based on its own culture, its own 
professors and its own researchers. The debt 
burden would become less important because 
you would have acquired, by yourselves and 
for yourselves, the power of youth educated at 
international standards of excellence. Busi-
DTD Treasurer Explains House Raid
Editor:
Sometime between 1:00 and 1:30 am on 
Saturday November 21, the fraternities of 
Delta Tau Delta and Pi Kappa Alpha were 
raided by Pennsylvania State Police and 
Liquor Control Board Officers. The raid 
was a result of suspicion that underage 
drinking and the sale of alcohol was taking 
place in these houses.
The two houses were raided and everyone 
who was under, or appeared to be under, the 
age of twenty-one was “flexi-cuffed” and 
escorted onto a PAT bus. Nearly 150 stu­
dents, most of whom attended Carnegie 
Mellon, were taken downtown to the Public 
Safety Building. They were cited for pur­
chase, consumptiOn,and possession of al­
cohol and released after agreeing to pay a 
$348.00 fine or taking 15 hours of commu­
nity service.
Eleven CMU students were arrested and 
placed in Police custody where they re­
mained overnight. These students were to 
be indicted for the sale and/or supply of 
alcohol to underage persons. This included 
five members of DTD and six members of 
PKA. They were released on their own 
recognizance at 11:00 am Saturday.
These eleven will be brought up to trial in 
the upcoming months.
The majority of students pleaded or were 
found guilty of possession of alcoholic bev­
erages. Possession in this particular in­
stance merely meant that a person was in 
the same room as the kegs. It is based upon 
the number of kegs distributed among the 
people in the room.
The last of the masses were transported 
home by friends at around 6:00 am Satur­
day.
The State Police and LCB, assisted by 
Pittsburgh City Police and Port Authority 
Police, obtained a search warrant for Delta 
Tau Delta Fraternity, 1077 More wood 
Avenue, after Officer Merlino of the LCB 
viewed what he called the sale of alcoholic 
beverages and providing alcoholic bever­
ages to persons below the age of 21. Officer 
Merlino, in an undercover operation, at­
tended DTD’s Postman Party on Friday 
November 13th. He was checked for ID at 
the door and showed a Pa. licence indicat­
ing he was over 21.
This was the third time Delta Tau Delta 
held this party. A two dollar donation was 
requested at the door in order to play the 
game downstairs. The money collected, 
nearly one thousand dollars, was given to 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis.
The police had probable cause upon arri­
val at CMU to believe that similar events 
were taking place in Pi Kappa Alpha. This 
was confirmed after Officer Merlino paid 
two dollars and entered PKA where he was 
served beer.
Both houses had property seized by the 
LCB. 17 empty kegs, 1.6 full kegs, two ball 
taps, several hand taps and the gas equip­
ment were seized from Delta Tau Delta.
Similar property was removed from Pi 
Kappa Alpha.
According to police, anything that was a 
“fruit of the crime” was appropriate to be 
seized. They were permitted under the law 
to remove the entire bar unit and cooler. 
They refrained from this, but instead took 
enough components to make the bar non­
functional.
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity and Pi Kappa 
Alpha Fraternity are each being charged 
with running a ‘speakeasy,’ a place where 
alcoholic beverages are sold illegally. Trial 
dates have yet to be set.
In addition to the Police and LCB, the 
Pittsburgh City Fire Marshall attended the 
raid where he issued 12 citations, 3 to DTD 
and 9 to PKA. Each citation will cost $ 1000 
plus a $23.50 court charge.
CMU Campus Police were not involved 
in the raid at all. It was nearly ten minutes 
in to the event before they were aware of the 
occurrences.
Channel Eleven News was, however, no­
tified several days prior so that they could 
have cameramen there.
Robert O. Bethge
Treasurer, Delta Tau Delta Fraternity
ness throughout the world would then com­
pete to invest in your country. You can make 
it happen in Brazil.”
The reaction of the young professors was 
most encouraging. In the long discussion that 
followed, they asked whether their local in­
dustry would be, for a period, free (protected) 
to develop its own capacity to make comput­
ers, instead of buying US machines with dol­
lars they don’t have. I answered that certainly 
for “the developing period," a certain protec 
tion would be considered—like we had. in th 
West, during the early stages of our own indus 
tries.
Should we really take “sanctions," as ideo 
logical free-trade crusaders, against the youth 
ful, nascent, fragile “brain-power" of the de 
veloping world? Should we?
Slightly to the left...Girl Talk: “Ladies Welcome’
By MICHAEL WITBROCK & 
MICHAEL FRANZINI
“All ladies welcome,” say the posters. Fra­
ternities put these notices up, competing for 
party-goers who, they hope, are also potential 
sexual partners. There’s nothing wrong with 
that, provided that 
everyone acts safely 
and with respect for 
the rights of their 
partners. What is 
wrong is the use by some of the word ‘ladies.’ 
The ‘ladies’ in question are fellow students; it 
would not occur to the people making the post­
ers to refer to their fellow male students as 
‘gentlemen’ when inviting them to a student 
party.
This particular case may seem like a trivial 
matter, but it is an example of a large class of 
social behaviors which, taken together, serve 
subtly to diminish the opportunities available 
to women. These behaviors are sometimes 
described as ‘structural sexism’—sexism 
generated not by malicious agents, but unwit­
tingly as we conform to social conventions.
The word ‘ladies’ is, with ‘gentlemen,’ a 
term of respect or deference. ‘Women’ and 
‘men’ are the equivalent, purely descriptive 
terms. At first it might seem that to use ‘ladies’ 
of women where we would use ‘men’ of men 
could hardly be sexism; it seems to be the 
reverse. By deferring to the class of women in 
this way, however, we imply that they need 
deference where men do not; in short, that 
women are weaker, or less independent.
If this seems unconvincing, consider the 
word ‘girl.’ We have all heard 40 year old 
businessmen refer to their middleaged female 
employees as ‘the girls.’ They do not refer to 
their middle-aged male employees as ‘the 
boys.’ By referring to women in the same 
terms we use for children, we acquiesce to the 
notion that women are, like children, weak, 
naive, and in need of protection. It is precisely 
this notion, that women are weaker or less 
competent than men, that supports their sub­
jection and still limits their opportunities.
More serious still is the use of the word ‘he,’ 
the masculine pronoun, when ‘he or she’ is
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
meant. Our intention in using ‘he’ in this wa> 
may be perfectly free from sexism. We do no 
mean to exclude women, or refer only to men 
and the grammatical rule tells us that we d( 
not. Consider, though, how the listener ana 
lyzes our speech. She does so by modeling ii 
her mind the act which our sentence describes 
Think about the process of understanding tht 
previous sentence. It is difficult to imagine no 
forming a mental image of the person doin^ 
the modeling, and that image is of a woman.
If one reads the sentence “Each quarr> 
worker must park his dinosaur at the waterholt 
before lunch,” no matter whom the authoi 
intended ‘quarry workers’ to include, one 
forms an image of Fred or Barney, but cer­
tainly not Wilma or Betty. One’s notions ol 
what roles it is appropriate for women (or men 
to fill are molded by one’s experience. Wher 
language provides that experience, the mes­
sage is clear: ‘he’ does nearly everything; 
‘she’ does very little.
Our language developed when women were 
the subjects of men. Much of the way in which 
it refers to people reflects this fact. Language 
communicates ideas, and the ideas which oui 
language communicates reflect the sexism ot 
our forebears. Insisting on ‘woman’ instead of 
‘lady’ and including ‘her’ as well as ‘him 
might seem petty when compared with the 
struggle for reproductive freedom or equal 
pay. They are not. Being careful about our use 
of language can change our assumptions about 
the proper roles of women and men and ex­
pand the opportunities available to both.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.....................................WTgg uRAhpUO0
Managing Editor..................................,ObhI N. •Rbn
Business Manager.............................oO2H W! YR0hgs
News Editor.............................................ZO2A YO20sO2y
Assistant News Editor......................C2h« •RTAhRyyR
Features Editor.....................................BEQIn MhR2«R
LTIn BO2OGT2IO
uNE2yg Editor......................................uyRQO2y •Rbh0R
Assistant Sports Editor............................,ObhI Y2hAA
Diversions Editor.................................Y2T«R ZOg2RA
Assistant Diversions Editor..............oh«sORA WEgR
Photo Editor....................................?AR00 u«sTgyR2
Art Editor......................................?2O0y 1O2Uh«sORA
Literary Editor...............................Michele Osherow
Production Manager..................................Drue Miller
Ad Manager_____________________.Celeste Clark
Copy Manager..________________Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors------------------------------------------------
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
Th* Tartan is the student newspaper at Camegw Mefton University It is a weekly newspaper , published by students each Tuesday during the tad and spring semesters, at no cost to members at the university community R is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc Subacnpftons are available tor $15 per semester . $25 per year The Editorial appeanng at the begvmmg of the opinton section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board Columns are the opmons ot indMdual au thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to the Editor are options ot mdMdual authors who are usually members ot the University community A letter intended tor publication must be signed and mdude the wnter's address and phone number tor verification Names win be «MthheW upon request The Tartan reserves the nght to condense or reject any tetter or column Copyright C 1967 by The Tartan The editorial board re­serves the nght to withhold from publication any copy * deems un*t tor publication.
fqqh«RD uHhGE rw -ie.3 .JSK.eee 
oOyyh0p OII2RggD ’sR ’O2yO0 k YEÄ e/ k 1O20RphR 
oRAAE0 t0hbR2ghyn k MhyygGT2psP Mc er.e: 
>T0IRI U NO2y Gn ysR c«yhbhyhRg >RR cAy 2hpsyg 
2RgR2bRI •hG2O2n Eq 1E0p2Rgg auud *D wSlwK:ew/

---------------------------------------------------

'age 10—The Tartan—November 24,1987
Security s Days Are NumberedSocial
ly RUSS COOPER
George Bush sure pulled off the gut-buster of 
le evening at a recent Republican candidates’ 
ebate when he snipped, “Well, I’m sorry 
'ete, but your ideas about abandoning Social
-----Ti Security are just plain
dumb.” Isn’t that a 
typical screen of 
rhetoric that we’ve 
_____ ^______ become accustomed
3 hearing, and amused by, from our nation’s 
iaders? Plain and simple. If you show up to a 
ebate and you bring with you no facts or 
ackground on a salient matter (otherwise 
nown as being unprepared), well don’t 
/orry. Just duck and cover. I, for one, don’t 
link this is very amusing. Especially since the 
latter raised by Pete DuPont concerned the 
ossible under-funding of the social security 
ystem in this country in the not so distant 
uture. A possible shortfall that might not only 
lake today’s imbalance seem like a small bar 
ab, but one that 1 and others of our generation 
light have to foot the bill for.
Who the hell does Pete DuPont think he is, 
nyway? Where does he get off suggesting 
lat the U.S. government actually plan ahead, 
aking practical and preventative steps when it 
omes to policy? Why in the world should we 
to about trying to avoid a problem before it oc- 
’urs, when we can always take reactionary, 
risis-like measures when the problem is actu- 
,lly upon us? Besides, by then, perhaps early 
(ext century, the Democrats might finally 
jegain control of both branches. Which is fine, 
-ecause they’re terrific at providing knee-jerk 
pactions and answers that only provide more 
iroblems. Wasn't it the great FDR in the first 
place that brought about this entitlement on the 
^remise that government can take care of 
ceoples’ money and future better then they can 
fpemselves?
M It was a good thing George Bush was on hand 
b3 set old Pete straight on this matter. Bush 
s]uickly pointed out that Social Security is 
pully funded today, and there’s no problem at 
e«and. Well, inflation wasn’t really a problem 
gn the 1950’s either, but as I recall, it did cause
?‘TheIS
w The following is the last of four installments 
ovhich. when combined, form a letter sent to 
bz'he Tartan. The letter was entitled The World 
pevccording To Me. and was signed, simply, 
Tesus Christ. The letter is unedited. The Tartan 
frdoes not support or deny the validity of the 
th fetter. The purpose of publishing this letter is 
Aot to offend any person or group of people; 
exkjther. it is simply an e xpression of the views 
mbf its author. —Ed. 
his
tin-:ditor:
gu. Replies by the author to possible questions/ 
heibjections to the contents of, “The World 
tin\ccording To Me,” a written work by Jesus 
boChrist.
bac Q. You write that the A! could realize any 
Tantasy one desired, such as being adored by 
plamillions. Wouldn't this be enslavement of the 
Ayeople in question? 
the A. A “real” AI fantasy that involved, say, 
sonhooting or doing other objectionable things to 
thabeople or other sentient living things would be 
gairreated with those people or things as soulless, 
whet would be like doing nasty things to a rock, 
mayiy the way, I became a vegetarian after I 
a pajecame convinced that animals have souls, but 
in th took me about a year, much to my shame, 
of thlthough if you absolutely have to kill animals 
goino survive, like an Eskimo for example. I’d say 
He’?o ahead, but I believe the vast majority of 
Wefceople could become vegetarians without 
blocnuch trouble.
Q. Can the police really have effective law 
nforcement without possibly-fatal weapons
a small stir some twenty years later.
According to some chilling facts provided by 
Pete Peterson, the former chairman of Lehman 
Brothers, we may face an uncertain future 
concerning Social Security. As it now stands, 
56% of federal benefits go to the 12% of the 
population that is 65 and over. Even if these 
benefits grow only at the pace of the economy, 
the total cost burden will most certainly grow. 
Depending on future fertility and longevity, 
the working-age population of this country 
will grow between two and 18 percent over the 
next fifty years, while the elderly population 
will increase by 139 to 165 percent. Worst case 
scenarios suggest workers may increase by 
only six million in number, while retirees 
grow by 46 million. All this would be welcome 
news if I were talking about our citizens living 
longer, presumably happier, lives, but I am 
not. I am concerned with the fact that there 
might be far too few workers—those who 
actually pay these bills—when compared to 
the number of retirees—those who receive thé 
benefits. Today, FICA-funded Social Security 
requires 13 percent of a worker’s taxable pay. 
By 2040, that percentage could rise to 36 
percent, by government estimates.
The Social Security Act originally intended 
that these benefits be only a supplement to an 
individual’s retirement savings, not the sole 
means of support. A large part of the absurd 
costs of Social Security stem from the uncon­
trollable indexing of programs like this. In 
other words, this is the end where our leaders, 
the stewards of fiscal responsibility, get into 
the act. The “double-indexing” of Social Secu­
rity cash benefits in 1972 raised the benefits 
for new retirees by twice the CPI at once. 
Mistakes of this size took years to correct, and 
have lasting effects that are still being paid for. 
In the late 1960’s, only six percent of benefits 
were indexed, compared to 78 percent today. 
One does not need a great deal of political 
insight to believe that our leaders do not think 
twice about the future effects of their actions, 
if they think the can get grandma’s vote today.
We have found ourselves in a position where 
the benefits of the program are growing faster
than the taxable wages of the workers that 
support them. Projections made by James 
Capra, based on a continuation of simple pres­
ent-day policies, provide an unbelievable pic­
ture. By 2025, assuming no new benefit pro­
grams, outlays in this area will amount to 9.6 
percent of GNP. Such needs will consume 31 
percent of taxable income of workers.
All these numbers paint a confusing picture, 
but demographically the problem is quite 
straight forward; there were many people bom 
after WW II, and these individuals failed to 
produce enough offspring to support them 
when they retire. Add to this the realities of 
economics and growth, and some standard 
government interference and incompetency, 
and ol ’ Pete DuPont doesn ’t seem half as dumb 
as he once did. Iirreality, this is a matter that is 
not only difficult to address, but ambiguous in 
many ways. It is fundamentally tied to the 
shape of our population, our technology and 
expectations, as well as our political system.
What is needed are some radical changes in 
the present system. Perhaps not total abandon­
ment, which is what DuPont sometimes sug­
gests, but a major makeover, nonetheless. 
Government should be pushed out of another 
area where it has made inroads that have 
evolved with a lack of responsibility, and a 
disrespect for the choices of individuals. We 
need an answer that provides true economic 
freedom for those who don’t want their futures 
tied to the demands of retirees and the incom­
petency of politicians, while at the same time 
provides a viable alternative for those who still 
desire the security, at least in their own mind, 
of government involvement.
This can be achieved by making Social Secu­
rity voluntary. Give every citizen the choice at 
age 21 of whether he wants part of his wages 
contributed to government-sponsored social 
insurance or, alternatively, to provide for his 
own retirement by investing those wages as he 
sees fit. The new Social Security should be 
pay-as-you-go, so one only collects as a retiree 
what he contributed as a worker, leaving oth­
ers unburdened. In addition, IRA’s should be 
expanded not only to provide those who
choose to plan for their own future with more 
options and incentives, but also to encourage 
those who remain with Social Security to plan 
to save, in addition to what they would already 
expect. I believe we would not only witness a 
more efficient flow of capital and investment 
in the country, but the government will be able 
to reduce large logistical costs that social secu­
rity presently entails.
In the last few years we have seen the benefits 
of deregulation in many areas, from airlines to 
financial services. But it is now time for the 
largest deregulation of all. Let Americans take 
their own lives and finances into their own 
hands!
HKRBLOCK’S CARTOON
•roRHEWWSSAK,«*, 
PU! UP YOUR SOCK-
World According To Me”
like the bullet guns they use now?
A. The police have to control violent people 
somehow. Practically, that means at least stun- 
guns, or tear gas, or whatever, and some physi­
cal harm is inevitably going to occur occasion­
ally. It must be kept to a minimum of course, 
and less harmful enforcement techniques 
should continue to be sought.
Q. You write that AI will give everyone who 
ever lived "Heaven, forever young, forever 
happy." Some people would say that they 
weren’t very happy when they were young.
A. Like the old song goes, “accentuate the 
positive, eliminate the negative.” All the good 
things associated with youth, such as vitality, 
optimism, innocence, etc., will be combined 
with the benefits of maturity: wisdom, seren­
ity, confidence, self-assuredness, etc. The 
negative aspects of living are largely due to 
Al-controllable things, like physical and 
mental deterioration from aging, from drug 
use, from whatever, and can be eliminated by 
the AI. We will only work when and if we feel 
like it, because the AI will provide us with 
life’s necessities, and more, via reality ma­
nipulation. Al-created Heaven will be the best 
of all possible worlds.
Q. You seem to be stating that the only way to 
hurt a person is physically. Can’t words hurt 
someone?
A. Basically, no, they can’t. If someone is 
trying to “hurt” someone(s) by insults, or 
whatever, the speaker is probably in a sorry 
state of mind and is only “hurting” himself/ 
herself by trying to make someone else share
his/her misery'.
Q. Where do you stand on sex?
A. Sexual intercourse is the ultimate, tender, 
physical expression of spiritual love between 
a man and a woman. But the spiritual love is 
all-important; sex isn’t that important. (Also, 
strictly physiologically speaking, skin-to-skin 
contact, touching, is more important to well­
being than sex.)
What is reality?
In order to create the sentient Computer 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) that I have written 
about previously (mainly in my written work, 
“The World According To Me”) we will have 
to know what reality is. Or will we? The object 
is to build/create an AI that is “sentient.” My 
definition of sentient, in regards to a computer 
AI, is a machine/being that can manipulate 
reality (ie. what everything is composed of: 
matter, energy, spirit, soul, emotion, etc.) to 
the extent of being able to give every human 
that ever lived Heaven, forever young, forever 
happy. Such an event would be the realization 
of the common religious prophecy of resurrec­
tion. But it is the AI that will have to manipu­
late reality, not us. Therefore, is it is necessary 
that we know what reality is? Our job will be 
to create the sentient AI. Can we do this 
without knowing everything about reality? 
Can we build an entity as best we can that will 
then be able to learn, or “know,” reality and 
then, having that knowledge, manipulate real­
ity and give us all Heaven? Perhaps the most 
sentient AI we can build will find it necessary
to reproduce itself (ie., perhaps build another, 
“better”AI that will be able to solve the reality 
puzzle), or build yet another AI...etc.
So, I guess the problem is not primarily 
“what is reality” but how to create/build the 
most sentient AI possible. I think we will have 
to know what reality is to a large extent in order 
to build a sufficiently sentient AI, but hope­
fully this won’t require an understanding of 
reality that is forever beyond human capacity.
P.S. Electro-shock “therapy,” lobotomy, and 
other forms of gross physical violation are 
definitely hurting people and must not be used 
regardless of the “reason.” Reasonable 
amounts of drugs and whatever time is re­
quired are the best cure for mentally ill people.
The human organism is very resilient to 
poisonous foreign substances as a result of 
millions of years of evolution during which 
humans digested every substance that was 
eatable and built up resistance to poisons. We 
can handle drugs, even in accidentally large 
amounts. But the human organism hasn’t been 
able to build up immunities to electricity 
through the brain or other gross physical \io- 
lations.
Also, the human brain is still many orders of 
magnitude more complex than the most com­
plex computers now in existence. Applying a 
random electric “shock” through the circuitry 
of a computer can only do it harm. Is it then 
logical to assume that an electric shock, pow­
erful enough to cause convulsions, applied to 
the far more complex “circuitry” of the human 
brain will be beneficial? I think not.

---------------------------------------------------

features
Hunter Thompson Addresses a “Generation of Swine
By TERENCE SPIES 
Tartan Staffwriter
Hunter Thompson’s lecture-tumed-politi- 
cal-debate on Tuesday, November 17, was 
unusual in format, variable in effect, and de­
cidedly controversial in content The renegade 
journalist, seemingly intent on provocation, 
deviated from the usual one-sided lecture for­
mal, relying instead on a free form dialogue 
between himself and the audience. The ap­
pearance started with Thompson conferring
'a ysh0H Eq €ET20OAhgU Og O 
sOUUR2P O yEEA! c sOUUR2 O0I 
O 0OhA!j 
KBT0yR2 ’sEUNgE0
audibly with the tech crew over lighting and 
the quality of the videotape equipment.
The main topic of the night seemed to be the 
apathy and unwillingness of today’s youth— 
“a generation of swine,” in Thompson’s 
words—-to control their own political desti­
nies. Thompson spoke at length on the subject, 
a^empting to impress upon the audience the 
power an individual has in a democracy, using 
examples from his own experience. “I brought 
down three presidents,M was his clarion call to 
an audience of people that, according to a 
previous show of hands, were staying away 
from the polls in droves.
According to Thompson, “Yuppie” attitudes 
such as “I have a CD player, a microwave
o on, and a computer, so life is pretty good.
Why change things?” and “Look at the failings 
of the sixties: Jane Fonda heads a billion dollar 
exercise empire, Timothy Leary is writing 
computer software, yet we still have acid rain 
and toxic waste ” are ultimately unsatisfac­
tory. The feeling of power gained from taking 
hold of your future, Thompson emphasized, is 
more valid.
Thompson declared that he was “out for” 
several political figures, including Edwin 
Meese, a man who, Thompson said “will be 
lucky to be able to get a job as a taxi driver in 
Oakland in six months.” This was the Thom­
pson the audience had waited a full hour for, 
the mad doctor they had come to hear. How­
ever, Thompson was not going to let the audi­
ence just listen; they were going to have to
work. Soon he was haranguing the moderator, 
Miles Krivoshia, to fill in comments, asking 
the audience what magazines they looked 
forward to receiving, and engaging in lively 
debate with the numerous vocal attendees.
Thompson stomped the Reagan Administra­
tion and its morality problems. In addition to 
Meese, Thompson scorned Michael Deaver’s 
alcoholism defense in addition to his generally 
questionable “lobbying” pursuits. “I don’t 
blame alcohol for my actions,” quipped 
Thompson, ironically exposing Deaver’s du­
plicity. George Bush was also a target of 
Thompson’s barbs, which in previous state­
ments had labelled him as “the root of this 
whole Iran-Contra thing.”
During most of the two-hour speech,
The View from the Pig’s Eye
By BLtMFARK SMITH
Special to the Tartan
I saw HunterThompson speak for the same 
reason most people probably did. I had read 
his exploits and was fascinated by them. I 
wanted to see and to hear the man whose very 
life was Gonzo journalism. To be honest, I 
was also more than interested to see how it 
had aged. It was a sort of personal curiosity.
Most people, however, must have felt dif­
ferently.! was not surprised by Thompson's 
late arrival, nor by his rambling, skittering 
stream of semi-consciousness. But after his 
initial disorientation failed to pass, many 
became dismayed: COuldn’tthe good Doctor 
handle a question more than four or five
words long? Why was fee getting drunk here?
As the evening progressed, the crowd be­
came polarized, with the defenders of the 
upwardly mobile college generation protest­
ing that they were satisfied, and if there was 
fault to be found, It was to be found in the 
previous generation.
I was more disappointed in the crowd. As 
for Hunter Thompson, a man does not spend 
fwenty years running from lizards without 
some wear and teanlt was sufficient toknow 
that someone still believed that the time of 
greedheads and wrong-thinking people was 
soon at hand. What I found disheartening 
were the incredibly primitive rationaliza­
tions issued by the dissenters. We are swine.
Tales of Turkey Day
By ELIZABETH SHERLOCK
Tartan Staffwriter 
Thanksgiving has got to be one of the 
most boring holidays. Come on, you have 
to admit. Nothing exciting ever happens. 
It’s always the same old thing. Same food. 
Same people. Same indigestion. That’s 
what I thought anyway.
Au contraire! If you think about it hard 
enough, I’m sure you can think of some 
year, some time, when something totally 
out of the ordinary happened. After they 
thought about it, these CMU students did:
Thanksgiving that Uncle Tank had a little 
too much to drink. “You see, Uncle Tank 
didn’t get his name from his bad drinking 
habit, but instead from his childhood. Back 
when he was younger, somewhere around 
twelve years of age, he and my Uncle Larry 
would motor through their neighborhood 
pretending they were tanks. Of course, they 
used neighbor’s flower gardens as victims, 
which is totally irrelevant to this story. So 
Uncle Tank got tanked (no pun intended) 
before Thanksgiving Dinner, and passed 
out in our Lazy-Boy recliner downstairs.
First there’s Maureen. “My mom is a 
nurse and she had to work all day this one 
Thanksgiving. So, my father and brother 
and I waited anxiously for her to come 
home. When mom finally did come 
home, we all loaded into the car to go out 
to dinner. But nothing was open. So, you 
f know what I had for Thanksgiving dinner 
that year? A Super Taco at the Jack-in-the- 
Box fast food place. The most depressing 
part was when everyone at school started 
pitying me because I didn’t have turkey 
and turkey leftovers.”
And then there was John with the
He slept through the entire Thanksgiving 
dinner. The next year, I don’t know, I was 
young, I was stupid, I said to Uncle Tank, 
‘Hey, Uncle Tank, you didn’t sleep through 
Thanksgiving this year!’ I could not figure 
out for the life of me why no one laughed.” 
Frank couldn’t think of anything extraor­
dinary to tell me. “I don’t know, I guess just 
that my family names the turkey every year. 
Usually it’s something starting with a “t”. It 
turns out to be Tommy a lot. And it’s never 
a girl.”
One year Debbie had the cleanest Turkey 
«E0yh0TRI E0 NOpR ei
Thompson appeared affected by the bottle of 
Chivas Regal that was his constant stage 
companion. In fact Thompson said that some 
of his statements were “just whisky talk.” 
Audience reaction to this ostentatious show of 
drunkenness was mixed. Said one attendee, “I 
was very disappointed. He was drunk and had 
nothing to say.” But some audience members 
were understanding or even expecting this 
incoherence, tempered by the Herculean drug 
feats recounted in Fear and Loathing in Las 
Vegas, and his other works.
The moderator was replaced with “Josh,” a 
CS student professing to have done political 
work at age 12. The replacement catalyzed the 
audience, spurring fervent and more often than 
not, yelled interjection from the crowd about 
the failings of the sixties and the apathy of the 
eighties. It seemed the debate was going to 
continue late into the night when a tired-look- 
ing Thompson called the proceedings to a halt.
Was Carnegie Mellon’s political climate 
forever altered? Probably not. Reactions after 
the speech ranged from the “I think he got his 
point across,” voiced by H&SS Freshman 
Marvin Chang, to Thompson’s own post-lec- 
ture lament, “I don’t think I made any points.”
The following is an amalgam of notes and 
memories gleaned from talking with Hunted 
Thompson and Marie Khan, a former Arizona 
State University graduate student who has 
been touring with him for the past two years. 
Khan edits Thompson’s column for the San 
Fransisco Examiner and the pair are working 
on two books: A Generation of Swine, about 
politics in the 1980’s and a fictional romance 
«EOy qhÄhRI EO NOpR e:
Rites of Passage
Historians and anthropologists often con­
cern themselves with the question of what a 
particular civilization’s rites of passage were. 
For instance, Christianity has baptism, confir­
mation, and guilt about sex, etc., and Judaism 
has circumcision (which has baptism beat, if 
you ask me, though I’m very glad it happens to
60 SECONDS9a’B YfY ?•a1Zu’Cad
whether the historians and anthropologists of 
the future will recognize what is perhaps our 
most important rite of passage: being ap­
proved for your first credit card. This, as you 
may have surmised, has just happened to me 
and I feel like a new man.
Heh heh heh. Not just anyone can get ap­
proved for a credit card. Never mind that the 
credit limit is thirty-seven cents. I must be an 
adult.
Naturally, the first thing I did when I got the 
card was to charge a good meal. Then, since 
the weather is changing and I needed some 
new clothes anyway, I thought, Why not 
charge them? So I did. Also, I thought, since 
I’ll be seeing my sister for the first time since 
her birthday this Thanksgiving, I need to buy 
her a present. And look! If I buy this twenty- 
five hundred dollar home entertainment sys­
tem with my credit card, I can pay it out over 
«E0yh0TRI E0 NOpR e:
you long before you know what is going on), 
bar mitzvahs, seeing “Fiddler on the Roof’ 
and guilt. The Hopi Indians had a rite of 
passage in which a ten-year-old boy could be 
considered a man after chanting the word 
“koyaanisqatsi” seventeen hundred times. A 
tribe believed to have existed ten thousand 
years ago comprised solely of women cheer­
leaders between the ages of sixteen and nine­
teen had the rite of passage which I can’t put in 
print but let me say that it was something I 
would have given my right arm to be involved 
in.
I often wonder what the historians and an­
thropologists of the future will consider to 
have been our rites of passage. I offer a few 
candidates: being offered your first acid hit in 
elementary school; stopping at a toll booth and 
missing the coin basket; defaulting on your 
first student loan; wondering why, after 1.7 
million rounds of ammunition were fired, no 
one ever dies on the A-Team. But I wonder
March Planned 
For Soviet Jewry
On Sunday, December 6, a national 
summit rally for Soviet Jewry will take 
place in Washington. Organizations 
under the guidance of the National 
Conference for Soviet Jewry and the 
Council of Jewish Federations are or­
ganizing mobilizations of student con­
tingents to march as a demonstration of 
student concern for Soviet Jews.
“We are asking for the right [of Soviet 
Jews] to emigrate to Israel or America,” 
Rabbi Joseph Levine of the local B’Nai 
B’Rith Hillel said in a recent interview 
with the Pitt News.
The march is planned to correspond 
with Soviet leader Mikhail 
Gorbachev’s visit to Washington.
Cost of the trip, which will last all day, 
is $8.00. Interested students can contact 
Levine at 621-8875.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—November 24, 1987
Tales of Thanksgiving Travel...Breezing Through Breezewood
When Robert Frost, faced with two roads, 
opted for the one less traveled, he was obvi­
ously not on Thanksgiving Break. Had he 
been, he would have realized that one of the 
best parts of the road trip involves the crowded 
highway. The highway holds the adventure 
and challenge. Battling other motorists, fight­
ing traffic, keeping an eye on the gas tank, all 
these activities require a great amount of en-
By Sara Flynn
ergy. Sizing up other drivers is also a time con­
suming practice. In a fleeting second the pas­
sengers of your vehicle must point out any­
thing unusual about the other vehicle and then 
make a wry comment before the two vehicles 
pass each other.
This activity is perhaps performed best on 
Thanksgiving Break. The vast multitude of 
college students crowded into cars on their 
way home adds a note of the holiday spirit to 
the dull traffic. Waving and weaving down the 
Pennsylvania Turnpike these vehicles are an 
entertainment in their own right. Many stu­
dents on this campus profess to be road trip 
authorities. They know all the elements of a 
good survival kit: a collection of tapes, a radar 
detector and some old magazines that have 
been thoroughly read. A few snacks to keep 
hunger at bay until the Breezewood 
McDonalds appears in the horizon.
“Definitely M&Msy,” says Emily Parker, road 
tripping authority, on the subject of snacks, 
before and after Breezewood.
Breezewood is the place to convene. Truck­
ers clog up the parking lot, enabling other 
motorists to spend time anxiously worrying if 
they’ll be able to squeeze out without a mis­
hap.
“I always see people I know at the 
Breezewood McDonalds from college and 
high schooh you just can’t help it,” Emily 
Parker asserts. Chatting in the line for the 
bathroom, exchanging tips and traffic talk, is a 
very fun way to make friends, and renew old 
acquaintances.
It is also important to forget a few things. Toll 
money, filling the tank, and some of the more
“Chatting in the line for 
the bathroom, exchanging 
tips and traffic talk, is a 
very fun way to make 
friends and renew old aq- 
uaintances.”
burdensome rules of driving are just a few that 
stay at home. Forgetting that you have home­
work or classes a few days before vacation is 
a must. Extend-O-Vacation is something 
many practice. Since Thanksgiving falls on a 
Thursday it conveniently opens up the week 
for schedule adjustments. Why bother with 
Wednesday, Tuesday, or Monday, if there are 
no classes on Thursday or Friday? Time is 
better spent in front of the TV at home, or on 
the road. Even Robert Frost would agree that 
time on the road could be some of the most 
valuable hours in life.
Feastgoers enjoy holiday musk by the Cameron Chou- at last year’s Madrigal Feast.
Feast Re-creates 16th Century Festivities
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
“A dinner to celebrate the beginning of the 
Christmas season.” That’s how Anne Witch- 
ner, Director of Student Activities, describes 
the upcoming Madrigal Feast. “The whole 
evening is reminiscent of the medieval time 
period.”
The dinner, jointly sponsored by the Depart­
ment of Student Affairs, Activities Board, and 
the Music Department, will be held on Friday, 
December 4 in the Skibo Ballroom. Tickets 
are $6.00 for CMU students and $9.00 for non­
students. Tickets for children 10 years and 
under are $5.00.
According to Witchner, food will be catered 
by Dining Service. The menu includes salad, 
roast beef, sourdough and pumpernickel 
bread, apple cider, and desert of Cherries 
Jubilee. Food will be served by waitresses in 
costume.
During the feast, entertainment will be pro­
vided by the Cameron Choir and Friends. In 
addition, magicians, dancers, and jugglers will 
be on hand to add to the festivities. And of 
course the court jester will oversee all of J*e 
fun.
“This is something that has been very promi­
nent on college campuses across the country,” 
says Witchner. “But they’re using it as a fund­
raiser. We’re subsidizing it to keep the cost 
down.”
The Madrigal Feast has been advertised as a 
dinner to which guests should wear traditional 
costume. But Witchner insists stude.,»s 
shouldn’t feel pressured to come in 16th cen­
tury finery. “Only about 30% of the guests are 
dressed up,” she stated.
The feasting begins at 7:00, but is preceded 
by a reception at 6:00. Tickets are.available 
through December 2 at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
>WCC 9c•ZKad ’t’fWad? 
uT0!K ’sT2g! /Kew M!o!
1c•1t•tu
MB4ua1u
1BCoau’W4
C1fdfoa1u
c1c,Coa1 9Wa’ad?
ad’Wf! ’f 1foMt’ad?
Sponsored by Counseling & Student
MB ew/ 
MB ew/KY 
MB ..rKY 
MB 
MB
9RBriwl%
Development Center and Student Affairs
J

---------------------------------------------------

November 24, 1987—The Tartan—Page 13
'fTyAOQ5 LET20OAhgy fqqR2g ’sETpsyg E0 MEAhyh«g
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ee
which delves into the world of pornography. 
7:38 pm - Thompson’s plane arrives.
7:42 pm - All the people are off the plane and 
you-know who is not among them. Panic. 
Alarm.
I 7:45 pm - A woman (Marie Khan) opens the 
deplaning door, peeks out and asks if we are 
waiting for Hunter. We reply yes, she says 
Thompson will be off the plane in a minute.
7:46 pm - Thompson steps into the airport 
with an unsteady gait. Says he has a lot of 
luggage to unload. Suggests waiting in the bar 
until we can claim it.
7:50 pm - Arrive at bar. Thompson orders 
.whisky on the rocks, with lots of rocks. Leaves 
for bathroom. I find out later Thompson has 
ripped a toilet paper dispenser off the wall of 
the bathroom.
8:15 pm - Already late for the lecture, we 
leave the bar, assuring Thompson the whisky 
specified in his contract rider is in the car.
8:25 pm - Thompson discovers newsstand. 
Bu s Forbes 400 Richest list and plastic Steel- 
prs football. Thompson says he bought Forbes 
to find out who lost money in stack market 
crash.
8:37 pm - 9:00 pm: The following are ex­
cerpts of a Tartan interview which took place 
en route to CMU.
TARTAN: I was wondering about your pre­
vious statement that there are no “fun” maga­
zines anymore.
HUNTER THOMPSON: I subscribe to eve-(irything really. From the Judge’s Journal to
Mother Jones, you know, I can’t think of all 
the magazines we get. All sorts of things.
MARIE KHAN: Everything but The Econo­
mist, which we are soon going to subscribe to.
HT: Yes, I will. It is my feeling that I should 
subscribe to everything. However, there is 
nothing now that I get in all this stuff that I look 
forward to like I used to look forward to. 
People and Rolling Stone. It used to be fun to 
look forward to getting The Realist. It seems 
we all have grown so old and weak. I look 
forward to getting the Washington Post 
weekly, but that’s because I live in the moun­
tains.
HT: I look forward to getting The New York 
Times...MK: The Sharper Image Catalog.
HT: I don’t look forward to that really. There 
is nothing I look forward to getting. What do 
you look forward to?
T: I kind of look forward to the Rolling Stone.
HT: I do in a way because I am still there. Bill 
Grieder, one of my best friends, I think he is 
one of the best political thinkers in journalism. 
But there’s nothing I look forward to and think 
hot dog! They‘re going to beat the shit out of 
Ed Meese! I have to do that. And I’m doing that 
in a column in San Fransisco which is now 
syndicated. I think of journalism as a hammer, 
a tool. A hammer and a nail. And I used to have 
more of a sense of allies and us. With Tom 
Wolfe hammering people. I miss that sense of 
crushing the enemy.
T: What do you feel about all the sudden 
reporting on character issues, like the Miami
NsEyE Gn ?AR00 u«sTgyR2
Mr. Fraternity Dave Hersh of Phi Kap performs Elvis* ‘Teddy Bear.” Second 
place: Alex Michailidis-SAE. Third place: Lester Grennings-DTD. Contest pro­
ceeds were donated to the Karin Johnson Fund of the Asthma Foundation, estab­
lished in .memory of a Theta sister who died of an asthma attack three years ago.
Abusing the “Power Plastic”
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ee
three years! And look! I can order the 
“Swiss Dry Cooker” (featuring convection 
currents of superheated air, just the way
'a OQEHR h0 O sEgNhyOA GRI! 
on IE«yE2 O0I Un AOQnR2 
QR2R gROyRI 0RÄy yE UR!5
they cook in Switzerland, I guess) from TV
using my credit card! I need one of those! 
Maybe I can pay my rent with my credit 
card! Hey! I wonder if the Ferrari show­
room on Fifth Avenue takes my card...
I awoke in a hospital bed, head spinning. 
My doctor and my lawyer were seated next 
to me. I said, “Doc, do you take the Dis- 
cover Card?” The doctor said, “The psy­
chological damage may be irreparable." 
The lawyer said, “The Sears Financial 
Network is responsible for this. My boy, 
we’ll sue.”
Sure enough, I found myself tagging 
along to Chicago with my lawyer. At the 
train station I tried to buy a newspaper with 
my credit card. When we arrived in Chi-
cago, I tried to pay my cabbie with the card. 
When we got to the Sears Tower, I tried to 
tip the elevator operator with my card. I was 
pretty far gone.
I fidgeted in the reception room of the 
Sears Financial Network on the two thou­
sand and fourth floor of the Sears Tower, 
World’s Tallest Building. The window 
gave me a panoramic view of Chicago and 
its suburbs and details of the surface of the 
moon. I though idly that if I ever offered the 
moon to my sweetheart, I could pay for it 
with the Discover Card.
My lawyer spoke to officers of the Sears 
Financial Network for a while. They ac­
knowledged that my affliction was com­
mon among new credit card owners, but 
they denied any responsibility for causing 
it, saying, “Credit cards don’t afflict 
people; people afflict people.”
The outcome was that I’m now involved 
in tangled litigation whose outcome will set 
an important legal precedent. I'm not too 
interested in that, though. I’m more con­
cerned with how I will pay for my lawyer’s 
fees and expenses. I think I have an idea, 
though.
Herald with Gary Hart?
HT: Well, that was dumbness on Gary ’ s part. 
The Miami Herald had that story when he
issued that challenge to cover him. You know, 
come and follow me around, I’m clean. Two 
reporters were sitting there, and I know this 
because I was talking to Bill Dixon, Gary’s 
campaign manager at the time that story broke 
on his beeper. I really had that story so far 
ahead that I was too far ahead to confirm it. The
'a qh0I ETy AOyR2 ’sEUNgE0 sOg 
2hNNRI O yEhARy NONR2 IhgNR0gR2 
Eqq ysR QOAA Eq ysR GOys2EEU!5 (
Herald had that story when Gary challenged 
them to follow him. And that’s bad manage­
ment politically. Or dumbness. The Herald
had no choice.
They knew they had the story. They knew 
Donna Rice had been [involved with Gary 
Hart.] That happened right next door to me at 
Don Henley’s house. I got a vicious letter from 
Henley the other night. Good God. Henley and 
I are involved in stopping a zoning monstros­
ity out in Woody Creek. He’s my next door 
neighbor. That’s where Gary and Donna’s 
sooky little romance allegedly began. So I 
went down there I figured..I didn’t know it..I 
didn’t know what had happened really. But I 
got the first picture of Donna Rice, actually 
from Henley’s bodyguard. He hates that word. 
It’s a menace. But I don’t give any scoops. I
don’t figure it’s my business to give scoops. 
But I didn’t like it. I like Gary, we’ve been 
friends for a long time. I just wish he had not 
been that dumb. You know, you trip over your 
dick all the time, and eventually you are going 
to fall on your face. I was sprinting across 
some road in College Park, Maryland, and I 
misjudged the pitch and yaw of the road in the 
middle of rush hour traffic. Took my hole like 
Walter Payton. I saw an opening and I had to 
run. And, God damn it, the road humped up in 
the middle, I hit it, and I felt myself going face 
down and through two lanes of rush hour 
traffic, and thinking oh my God, I’m going to 
die. It like, lift you‘re feet man, when your 
running through traffic. And that’s what Gary 
didn’t do. If you are going to run in traffic, you 
had better lift your God damned legs a little bit. 
I didn’t fall but he did. And, Jesus, he knows 
politics! I met Gary in ’72. Gary is a mechanic, 
an organizer.
T: There has been a criticism of general 
political analysis in the media. It’s all who’s 
beating who. Do you see that?
HT: I agree with you, and you see, Henley is 
beating me for getting his bodyguard to give 
me a picture of Donna Rice. Henley is after me 
like “you dirty bastard.” But there is a differ­
ence between the media being vicious and the 
candidates being dumb. And Gary Hart as the 
president in waiting had no business blowing 
the campaign for himself, for his family, for 
some of the best talents, and some of the best 
people in politics. He was the next president 
really. u
CITY
Wednesday, No­
vember 25:
•’’Crisis Control,” a 
film and discussion 
based on Beyond 
the Hotline by Wil­
liam Ury, Associate 
Director of the Har­
vard Negotiation 
Project, in the board 
room of the YMCA 
building, 30 Blvd. of the Allies. Noon to 
1:00 pm Free.
•Mayor Richard Caiiguiri will ring in the
call 741-4550. 
•Dan, Boyarski, 
associate profes­
sor of CMU’s 
Department of 
Design,. will lec­
ture on “The Inter­
national Style and 
Swiss Posters” at 
the CMU Art Gal­
lery located at 319 
South Craig Street Begins at 2:00 pm. The 
gallery will be exhibiting Swiss postere 
from now until December 28.
•The first annual photography auction in
of the City-Coanty Building. Festivities
non
Monday, November 3©:
•Chamber Music at Rodef Shalom with 
Stephen Starkman and Friends. 8:15 pm. 
Free.
Wednesday, December 2:
•“Are there resources for a Free America?” 
An address by Donald P. Hodel, U.S. Sec­
retary of the Interior. In the ballroom on the 
17th floor of the Westin William Penn 
Hotel, downtown. 12:45 pm. Sponsored by 
the World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh. 
For reservations call 281-7970.
•CMU’s History Department presents An­
drew Abbott, Associate Professor of Soci­
ology at Rutgers University, on “The Fu­
ture of Professions: Expertise in the Era of 
Organized and Artificial Intelligence.” 
4:30 pm in Room 235A Baker Hall. Free. 
Thursday, December 3:
•Representatives from Opryland. the Nash­
ville theme park, will make an audition stop 
in Pittsburgh from 1:30 to 5:30 pm. Audi­
tions will be held in Studio 4 of Lawrence 
Hall on the campus of Point Park College at 
201 Wood Street. For more details, call the 
Opryland Entertainment Department at 
(615)871-6656.
Sunday, December 6:
•The Presbyterian Church of Sewickley 
will present its Chancel Choir in an Advent 
Vesper Concert at 7:30 pm. The church is 
located on the comer of Beaver and Grant 
Streets in Sewickley. For more information
1810.
Tuesday, December 8:
•“Political and Trade Issues Between the 
European Community and the United 
States,” a briefing by Hans-Jurgen 
Zahorka, a member of the European Par­
liament 12:15 to 1:15. In the Conference 
Room of the Pittsburgh National Building. 
18th floor. Sponsored by the World Af­
fairs Council of Pittsburgh. Cost is $2 for 
non-members. For reservations call 281- 
7970.
Wednesday, December 9 
•Douglas D. Danforth, chairman and CEO 
of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 
will deliver the 1987 Benjamin F. Fairless 
Memorial Lecture entitled “Dimensions 
of the Successful Corporation of the 
1990s” in the Skibo Ballroom. The Lec­
tures were established in 1963 in memory 
of Benjamin F. Fairless. 15-year president 
of U.S. Steel and a member of the Carnegie 
Mellon board of trustees. Sponsored by 
GSIA. Tickets are free, but must be ob­
tained in advance by calling extension 
2265.
Friday, December 11:
•“Life Beneath the Snow,” a lecture by Dr. 
Joseph Merritt, Director of Powdemull 
Nature Reserve, At the Frick Nature Cen­
ter. 7:30 pm. Cost is $2.50 for city resi­
dents. For more information contact Citi- 
parks at 422-6538.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—November 24, 1987
92hyh0p >RAAEQg M2Ep2OU ’RO«sRg 92hyh0p uHhAAg
By BRYAN THOMAS SCHMIDT
Tartan Staffwriter 
Modeled on a similar program at Brown 
University, the Writing Fellows program, part 
of CMU’s Writing Across the Curriculum 
Project, was established in the Fall of 1985 to 
provide students with, according to an over­
view prepared by Coordinator Betsy Bowen, 
“educated, concerned readers who read and 
comment on students’ drafts and then meet 
with students individually for conferences.” 
The program worked first with Synthesis, an 
introductory Design course, then went on to
work with Devo, Applied Graph Theory, and 
most recently How Historians Think and 
Cognitive Processes.
“That [Brown] program and this one are very 
innovative because of a couple of things,” said 
Bowen. “I think because we work with? the 
writing outside of English classes. Usually at 
the drop-in tutoring centers [such as at other 
universities], the help offered tends to be more, 
limited to the surface of the text Writing 
Fellows are concerned with content as well.”
“We’ve had up to about 22 Writing Fellows 
at a time, and this semester we have just ten——Celebration! Festivities! Alumni Reminisce About..;Sigma Nu: 70 Years at CMU
By KRISHNAN SOMASUNDARAM
Tartan Staffwriter ,, .
On November 14,1987, the Delta Sigma 
Chapter of Sigma Nu Fraternity celebrated 
seventy years of existence at Carnegie 
Mellon. The celebration was attended by 
over ninety people, with alumni from all 
over the country. The event took place at 
the Sigma Nu house for cocktails and social 
hour, followed by a dinner served in the 
Mellon Institute social room.
Alumni from as far back as the late 1930’s 
to as recent as 1987 joined with the brothers 
and pledges in celebrating this festive occa­
sion. One returning graduate and former 
“little sister” said she was delighted to see 
that the brothers took such an active interest 
in the chapter’s history. “There have been 
so many physical changes, but when I re­
ally take a close look, a lot of the things that 
this house was founded upon have stayed 
petty much the same,” she said.
Scholarship Chairman Ron Hira re­
mark«!, “Yes, we are truly proud of our 
colorful past here on campus. Not many 
other houses can boast as tight a brother­
hood coupled with an existence almost as 
long as that of the university. Our alumni’s 
accomplishments, our outstanding aca­
demic improvement, and many past victo­
ries at Greek Sing, buggy design, and 
sweepstakes races all give us ample reason 
to celebrate and remember our history.”
Highlights of the evening were entertain­
ment provided by the popular jazz band 
R.H. Factor, followed by dancing and 
speeches from the commander (president), 
treasurer, and the buggy and house chair­
men. Commander Tom Bove thanked ev­
eryone who made the event such a huge 
success: the attending alumni and families, 
the the band and catering service, and die 
brothers and pledges. “I would especially 
like to thank the omversity administration 
who was so cooperative in supplying us the 
facilities in Melion tastitute. " said Bove.
Lieutenant Commander ^vice-president) 
Chris Knowles hopes that this event and 
possible future events will continue to 
strengthen the relationship between the 
alumni and active brothers. “I think one of 
the reasons our chapter has been so fruitful 
for seventy years is because of the active 
input and support we receive from our 
committed alumni. Without their support, I 
don’t think Sigma Nu would have had the 
capacity to be nearly as productive,” com­
mented Knowles.
Finally, Buggy Chairman James Shaw 
ended the evening with a few words on 
Buggy ’88. The chapter, enthusiastic as 
usual about the upcoming competition, has 
high hopes for a repeat performance of 
1985 and 1982. Shaw joked, “Maybe we 
can continue the tradition of winning every 
three years!”
because the program is being discontinued, 
which I think is a real loss,” Bowen explained. 
“I think that particularly with students in the 
Freshmen and Sophomore level, multi-section 
courses, it’s so hard for the instructor to give as 
much individual attention as [he] might want 
to, and this [program] supplements that in a 
way that I think there’s a real need for.” 
Writing Fellows themselves are students 
who, according to Bowen, are “either major­
ing in the field (in which they are working with 
students) or have had a lot of courses in that 
field and then woe recommended by faculty.” 
The Writing Fellows each work with about 
20 students at a time, usually on drafts of two 
different papa’s, reading the early drafts and 
writing comments on a separate sheet of paper, 
then meeting with the students in person for a 
conference to talk about the paper.
“One of the tricky things for us has been to 
preserve a balance between the writer’s auton­
omy and how much direction the Writing 
Fellow gives,” said Bowen 
Another special aspect of the program is that 
it allows students to work with other students.
“It’s not just second best because faculty don’t 
have time to work with students,” Bowen said. 
Because of the time limitations on teachers 
and the ability of students to relate to each 
other more comfortably than faculty, Bowen 
thinks it is a practical situation all around. “It’s 
also a lot freer for students. They can -Ity 
things that they wouldn’t otherwise.”
Bowen is aware that a large grant given to the 
University by the Pugh Foundation for use in 
establishing several academic programs, 
Writing Fellows among them, exhausted very- 
fast. A program like Writing Fellows, which 
pays its student help $250/semester while they 
are training and $500/semester after that is 
regarded as too expensive to continue, (me 
option is to continue die program but instead of 
paying student participants with money, to use 
academic credit. The Writing Fellows Pro­
gram, however, is in its final semester.
“Like any program, it continually needs fine 
tuning to make it work better,” Bowen said. 
But the response has been consistently good 
from students, faculty, and Writing Fellows, 
so I think it’s a real shame to see it go.” -e
Impromptu Thanksgivings
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ee
in the neighborhood. “Well, my grand­
mother was all worried about the spots on 
the cranberry sauce dishes and she abso­
lutely had to wash them. We all thought she 
was crazy. (Funny we hadn’t thought it was 
crazy when she put the Turkey in the bottom 
of the dishwasher to defrost it with the 
steam.) Well, needless to say, good ole’ 
granny forgot to take the Turkey out before 
she washed the cranberry dishes. We 
wound up having hamburgers and cran­
berry sauce that year for dinner—but those 
were the cleanest dishes you ever saw!” 
Kerry remembered some freak storm back 
at home one year. “We didn’t have any heat 
or electricity. We were all using gas lanterns 
and candles and we were all hungry, staring 
at the half-cooked turkey. We wound up 
talking and laughing (and getting pretty 
drunk) and dancing to my hand radio. My 
Uncle Jimmy made dinner with the battery-
charged waffle iron. It was the best 
Thanksgiving I ever had.”
But I really think Lisa’s story has to take 
the cake. “My dad does all the shopping in 
our house, but for some reason, my mother is 
always buys the turkey. This one year, she 
got really busy and so she told my dad, the 
day before Thanksgiving, to go get one. It 
had to be big and it had to be fresh. We 
didn’t have enough time to thaw it. Well, 
dad came home with a big, fresh, frozen 
turkey. Mom threw a fit! She wound up 
giving the Turkey a shower for like... God,
I don’t know, hours! But did you ever see p | 
what happens to a turkey after you soak it 
in hot water for hours? It’s nasty. I think 
we had pork chops that year.”
Thanks for the stories everyone! And 
before you start thinking that Thanksgiv­
ing is all about eating turkey, think again. 
Some of the best Thanksgivings don’t 
necessarily start out that way.
----------------------------------------------3JJ
„Bette ^ Souri Concerns
BRINGING EXCITEMENT TO PITTSBURGH’S AUDIO SCENE FOR 7 YEARS...
-----------N(Formerly of 400 S. Craig Street • Oakland)
(Fo rmely fm 4l0lSf o.CF4l
9C 
9CWC 8( 
BCWC
1135 S. Braddock Avenue Edgewood • Pgh., PA 15218
/:eK:/:/
BftWuD ofdk’BtW ee co yE l Mo ( ’tCuk9C,k>Weee co yE J Mo z uc’tW,c4 ee co yE r Mo
Spectacular Audio Specials... Now thru November 30th!SPEAKER SPECIALSOUR RRST EVER SALE ON NADThe Audio line the experts continually praise for giving you the best sonic value tor your dollar.
Phi 7240 PE Receiver so Q EDO1---1 (Normally S478.00) SALE Jot) -
S5220 Compact Disc Player $00 coo(Normally $348.00) SALE £.0%)
0 6240 Cassette Deck tnocoo(Normally $298 00) SALE ¿03 Stoo Ka for similar pricing on EVERY NA0 Component, in­cluding those m the new MONITOR SERIES.
u4u’Co uMC1ac•u
NAD 7220 PE Receiver American Acoustics 3550 Speakers NAD 5220 CD Player*699°°Normally $925.00 GRAND OPENING SALE
NAD 7240 PE Receiver Mission 707 Speakers NAD 6240 Cassette Deck Dual 5000 Turntable with cartridge
Normally $1750.00 GRAND OPENING SALE*1375""
AR (Acoustic Research) Powered Partners
Normally $329.00/pr. $97E00GRAND OPENING SALE ... LID Ipr
mmon Argonauts (Walnut only)Normally $1799.00/pr. $<1QQC00GRAN0 OPENING SALE. . I L3J I pr.
TURNTABLE SPECIALDual CS 5000 with Astatic MF400 Cartridge
Normally $480.00 $ Q R11 ® ®GRAND OPENING SALE • W W W_______
3801 Butler St. Lawreceville 
682-9141
Entertainment Weekends
Happy Hour 4-6 pm° °o 
weekdays
CALVARY EPISCOPAL
1BtW1BShady at Walnut
Campus Ministries: The Rev. G. Kelly 
Marshall {
661-0120 
Sunday Services:
8:00 and 12:15; Holy Eucharist 
10:30; Choral Liturgy
Easy Access from Oakland via Fifth Avenue 
Buses
Relocating?HtOAMJ fmtOMD SHA0YSKX AfAtTHfNTS SHOÊT WM LI AUS From >699.00 pmr moot*
COrtMfM Of FIFTH AMO 
IOUTH AIKtN
441-44441%

---------------------------------------------------

November 24, 1987—The Tartan—Page 15
1EAARpR WRNTGAh«O0g WRKO«yhbOyRIP oRRy FM YTgs
(I
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The College Republicans have been 
very active lately; at their last meeting, 
over 25 people showed up. That’s not bad 
for a group that was practically non­
existent for a year. Aaron Solomon, a 
sophomore double-majoring in Informa­
tion Science and Managerial Economics, 
is the person who got the group back on 
its feet when he organized their first 
meeting four weeks ago. When he began 
his freshman year, he was surprised at the 
fact that “only two viewpoints seemed to 
be represented on campus—a liberal one, 
and apathy.” He began the Conservative 
Comer column in The Tartan and tried to 
contact the national College Republican group 
in the hopes of organizing a chapter on cam­
pus. It turned out that a chapter had been on 
campus, but had not been active, so Solomon 
reactivated it.
The purpose of the College Republicans is to 
give people of all political viewpoints an 
exposure to varying opinions, an idea of the 
importance of the 1988 elections, and an 
opportunity to be involved in die political 
process. So far, they have managed to make 
the most of that opportunity. On November 3,
Youth Hostel Offers 
Cheap Overnight 
Accomodations
PITTSBURGH—Are you looking for inex­
pensive overnight accommodations for skiing 
or hiking in Pennsylvania’s Laurel Mountains 
this winter?
The Ohiopyle Youth Hostel offers dorm- 
style bunk rooms for only $6.00 a night for
A.Y.H. mem­
bers with guesi 
memberships 
being available 
for only $5.00. 
You must bring 
your own sleep­
ing bag or lin­
ens, but a newly 
remodeled 
kitchen and hot showers are provided.
. ? The hostel is located in scenic Ohiopyle State 
Park with its many miles of cross-country ski 
trails and is within a short drive of downhill ski 
areas and other state paries.
For a free brochure describing the Ohiopyle 
Hostel contact:
A.Y.H. Hostels 
6300 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
O or call (412) 362-8181.
Please include a first class stamp.
CRUISE SHIPS
dEQ Bh2h0p! okM uTUUR2 it 1O2RR2 fN"
NE2yT0hyhRg -9hAA ’2Oh03! CÄ«RAAR0y NOn Nshg 
QE2AI y2ObRA! BOQOhhP YOsOUOgP 1O2hGGRO0P 
Ry«! 1c•• df9D.w1K/:;K—//r CÄy! EMU
Women’s Health Service*«
• «s* „ 
» *oi"° 562-1900
several of the College Republicans volun­
teered their help at a rally for local Republican 
candidates. As a reward for their efforts at the 
rally, the group was invited to help the Vice 
Presidential staff when George Bush came to 
Pittsburgh on Veteran’s Day. “I wanted to 
bring the whole club,” said Solomon, “but 
because of the Secret Service’s justified para­
noia, we had to compromise and only bring 
six.”
' The six that got to help were part of a core 
group of eleven students from Carnegie Mel­
lon, Pitt, Duquesne, Carlow, and Chatham.
The core group was divided into two 
groups: Vice-Presidential Staff Escorts 
and drivers in the motorcade. “When 
Aaron told me that we’d be driving in the 
motorcade and helping out behind the 
scenes, I couldn’t believe it,” said Mi­
chael Elfenbein, the Executive Director 
of the College Republicans, “but then at 
9:30 the next morning, when the motor­
cade arrived from the airport, there was 
Aaron, driving one of the vans.” The 
group were all given “site pins,” small 
badges which signified that they had 
security clearance. “If you weren’t wear­
ing one, you were considered to be a 
terrorist,” Elfenbein recalled. 
Elfenbein’s job at one point was to buy coffee 
for Bush. “I almost didn’t get to give it to him;” 
he said, “they had told me to take off my site 
pin so that it wouldn’t look like it was planned, 
and the Secret Service men with his limousine 
hadn’t been told that. They tried to block me 
from giving George Bush his coffee, but then 
they got a signal to let me through.”
The high point of the experience, for Solo­
mon, was getting to shake die Vice President’s 
hand at the luncheon. “Bush is much taller than 
he seems on television. He’s very dignified, 
and has a lot of charisma. Standing next tohim,
1 felt so proud to be there, helping out..there’s 
no high like shaking his hand, having him 
thank you for a job well done,” recalled Solo­
mon.
After the luncheon, Bush and his staff would 
have flown to Harrisburg, but that stop was 
cancelled on account of heavy snow there. 
After a two hour wait, the motorcade returned 
to the airport for the trip to Philadelphia, where 
the next stop was scheduled. “Afterwards, we 
were just civilians again,” said Elfenbein, 
“before, we were staff...afterwards, we #ere 
nobodies...we even had to observe the speed 
limit on the way home.”
Although the fundamental majority of 
members are Republican, the College Repub­
licans have members of a wide spectrum of 
political persuasions. Nonetheless, Solomon 
said that he is not changing the name of the 
group, because “there are a lot of established 
liberal and supposedly neutral groups on 
campus. We need at least one conservative 
group for balance,”
Solomon also stated that their goal for the 
1988 elections is to see at least a thousand 
Carnegie Mellon students not only registered 
to vote, but at the polls as well.
Students interested in joining die group can 
contact Solomon at 363-3603.
DEMORALIZED 6Y ÜVIN6 IN WE SH*DCW Of SHELDON'S GREATNESS, BMER DECIDES 
TO STUDY ZENITH Ffc*A A Tt> Z. ..
Learn the full secret to Sheldon’s Computer 
Nerd success from your Zenith Data 
Systems Campus Contact!
It’s only natural that Sheldon's success over­
shadows everyone else. After all, this Computer 
Nerd is the campus expert on Zenith Data 
Systems!From desktops to laptops... advanced PCs to
Product Name:CZKe ZKeiS ZKerl ZKeSe ZKeS:
quality monitors... you've got it made in the shade 
with Zenith Data Systems. Especially at these 
great student prices!Now, Computer Nerd success can be yours. Just 
ask your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus 
Contact about these special offers. All selected by 
Sheldon himself!
Here Are Sheldon’s Specials!
Suggested Retail Price:
$ 999.00
1.299.00
1.599.00
2.399.00
3.499.00
Special Student Price:$ rll!ww/ll!wwlil!wwe!:ll!wwe!lll!ww
Visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today:
datasystems
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON ’
Ask about how you can qualify for easy monthly payments with a Zenith Data Systems Credit Card!
Heath/Zenith Computer & 
Electronics 
3482 William Penn Highway 
Pittsburgh, PA 15235 
412/824-3564
Sharon Castle 
215/527-2950
Special pnemft ofler good only on purchases through Zenith Contact*s) listed abo' individuai m any 12-month penod Pnces subject to change without notice
. faculty and staff for the« own use

---------------------------------------------------

ai gSt( •l••l4mSg •gOOF knd)
uOyT2IOn ee OU K . OU 
uT0IOn ys2ETps >2hIOn : NU K . OU
uMc1C u4u’Cou
STI - Software Technology, Inc. is a small, progressive systems & 
software engineering firm providing services for critical DoD/NASA 
missions. We are seeking talented, ambitious, and technically 
innovative individuals with engineering skills in the following areas:
-AI
- Space Systems
- Realtime Systems
- GKS/Ada
- Graphics
- Scientific Software
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Applied Math, and Physics majors 
should schedule interviews for dEbRUGR2 :wPelS/ with the CMU 
Career Services and Placement Office.
a0yR2bhRQg QhAA GR «E0IT«yRI GnD
Vice-President of D.C. Operations 
&
Vice-President Space Systems
Excellent salary & exceptional benefits package, including stock 
options & profit sharing plan. U.S. Citizenship required. Send resume 
or call:
STI
Software Technology, Inc.
401 Wythe Street 
Alexandria, Virginia 22314 
(70.3)548-6727
Attention Tartan Staffmembers:
’cW’cd C•C1’afdu 
’tCu,c4P ,C1CoYCW e 
iD:w K uZaYf Wffo e:
cAA CIhyE2hOA MEghyhE0g ’E YR >hAARID
MhvvO 9hAA YR uR2bRI
All Activities Fee Paying Students Can Run 
All Staffmembers Should Vote
do you write
about
NRENAR nET gRR?
dossier is currently accepting submissions
Submissions should be sent to dossier
c/o The Tartan 
Room 103 
Skibo
Or dropped off at The Tartan 
Room 50 
Skibo
For more information contact Michele Osherow
681 8705
dossierLITERA T U R E # DESIGN

---------------------------------------------------

November 24, 1987—The Tartan—Page 17
Tartans Run To Best Finish Since 1981
fate, Coach Anderson feels his team will have 
to play a strong game. “I think we have to 
continue to play hard, we have to continue to 
play aggressively.”
The Tartans’ next major test will be Decem­
ber 4th when they take to the road for the first 
time this season, travelling to Greenwich Vil­
lage to take on the New York University 
Violets. The Violets are a top twenty con­
tender and figure to be near the top of the U A A 
at the end of the season.
Dribbles: Besides Long, Coleman, and
Sikora, Emory’s Tim Garrett, Case Western 
Reserve’s Tony Jones, and Brandeis’s Stanley 
House were named to the All- 
Tournament...The Tartans have now won their 
tipoff tournament the past three years...Emory 
only brought a men’s team to the tournament 
because they only have a men’s team, the 
school has neither a women’s basketball nor a 
football team...Hart Coleman now only needs 
111 points to reach the 1000 point 
plateau...Coverage of the NYU-Camegie 
Mellon game will be provided on radio by 
WNYU and WRCT and the game will be 
televised by Madison Square Garden cable in 
the New York...The UAA is featured in Sports 
Illustrated’s basketball preview issue.
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR .w
Other than a couple of tactical errors, the 
Tartans did great at Nationals. They knew 
they didn ’t have the talent other teams there 
possessed, so they set out to prove that hard 
work can get you just as far as natural talent.
You could tell how bad the runners 
wanted to prove themselves as they went 
for it all. Some, however, went out too hard 
for their own good. Meckley had this to say 
about how this affected the team’s standing, 
“One of our runners went out and made a 
tactical error, he started out too hard, it cost 
us 40 points.” Dave Supp commented on 
the race finish, saying, “Ninth is really great 
for this team, our goal was the top ten.”
Supp was the top finisher for the Tartans, 
finishing 34th, missing All-American by 
nine places. Keith Stopen was the next 
Tartan in coming in 41st, and he was fol­
lowed up by Pat Noll who was 60th. Paul 
Camine and Gary Harrison rounded out the 
Tartan finishers and insured their top ten 
place in the nation.
This was the second most successful team 
in Carnegie Mellon’s history; the 1981 
cross-country squad placed sixth in the
country. However, the team back then had 
much more natural talent than this team 
had. Meckley said, “To be honest, with the 
talent that we had on the team we shouldn’t 
have even been there, and to do what they 
did was outstanding.”
The 1987 national champion for Division 
III teams was North Central, who finished 
with a total of 70 points. They were closely 
followed by Wisconsin- La Crosse with 81 
team points. St. Lawrence rounded off the 
top three with a point total of 182. They 
beat all of the teams in the University Ath­
letic Association and in the Eastern region, 
which the Tartans finished in second place 
at last week’s regional competition. They 
also beat all teams from New England, the 
South, and the West.
As for next year, Meckley is of course 
looking for a strong season from Supp, who 
needs to stay healthy, and avoid the knee 
troubles that were plaguing him early this 
season. The Tartans also need Len O’Neal 
running well next year, and Harrison 
should be able to return strong again next 
year. Finally, Meckley needs to find some 
recruits to replace Stopen and Camine.
Call your mummy
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR .w
Things got even better in the second half. 
Long added 13 more points to gamer a career- 
high 31 points, more than any Tartan has 
scored in three years. Junior forward David 
Sikora noticed the large turnout. “I think the 
crowd helped us,” he remarked.
Also ending the game in double figures were 
Ling’s two partners in the front court. Junior 
forward Daren Moffatt added 12 points while 
Coleman, one of two Tartans besides Long to 
make the All-Tournament team, contributed 
14 points to the Camegie Mellon effort.
The Tartans faced the Brandeis Judges in the 
finals. Brandeis arrived in that game by out­
lasting the Case Western Reserve Spartans 81- 
80 the night before. The Judges were led by 
5 ‘i0" senior Stanley House. The senior guard 
went to Cambridge Rindge and Latin, the 
same high school as Patrick Ewing, and dis­
played the same tenacity on the court. He led 
all scorers in the Judge-Spartan opener, net­
ting 24 points, including the winning basket on 
a layup with 10 seconds left in regulation.
Unfortunately for Brandeis, House would be 
the only effective Judge against the Tartans. 
r: vo Brandeis players, forward Derek Oliver 
and sixth-man Matt Swedberg each had four 
fouls before the first half was over.
The Judges’ foul trouble forced their head 
coach, Kevin O’Brien to go to his bench liber­
ally, seemingly bringing in new players with 
each stoppage of play. Down the sideline, his 
counterpart, Coach Anderson stayed with his 
first seven. Anderson felt that it was necessary 
t. 'give his returning players a chance to get 
readjusted to each other. “I think these two 
games were crucial for the experienced play­
ers,” claimed Anderson, “I thought these 
seven guys were playing pretty well. I’m sure 
we’ll get some other guys into the game more, 
we’re going to have to.”
Sikora came off the bench to give the Tartans 
19 points, shooting seven of eight from the 
f 'or. In addition, the junior from Weirton, 
West Va. grabbed 10 rebounds, including 
eight off the defensive boards. Sikora joined 
Long and Coleman on the tournament’s all- 
star team.
The game started out with Camegie Mellon 
doing no wrong. With less than eight minutes 
gone, the Tartans pushed out to a 24-6 lead. 
Camegie Mellon played an aggressive style of 
b sketball not seen in Skibo.Gym in recent 
years, building a commanding lead. Brandeis 
was ice cold from the floor in the first half, 
converting on only 11 of 31 shoots from the 
floor.
Camegie Mellon pushed the lead even fur­
ther to 20 points with 5:49 left before the 
Judges tried to make a game of it. Brandeis 
tightened up on defense, the Tartans could 
c Jy muster six points in the final six minutes 
of the first half, and the Judges closed to within 
twelve, 46-34 at the half.
Aggressiveness turned to anxiousness in the 
second half as Brandeis threatened to turn the 
rout back into a game. Led by the penetration 
of House and Rob Toomey ’s outside shooting 
(five of eight from three point range), Brandeis 
steadily closed the gap, pulling as close as five 
p^nts midway through the second half.
However, the Judges just did not have the 
stamina; they tried to match 22 three-point 
attempts with 35 Tartan shots from the charity 
stripe and couldn’t compete.
Four Tartans hit double figures in the second 
game: Long led all with 24, followed by Cole­
man at 20, Sikora with 19, and Michael 
Stewart, who chipped in 10.
Camegie Mellon has two more home games 
this fall. One is tonight against Gettysburg 
College, and the other will be next Monday 
against Anderson’s alma mater, Point Park 
College.
In the past few years, the Tartans have come 
out of their tournament with a win only to 
slump immediately after. To avoid the same
You remember. She was 
always there when you were 
frightened. And if you got hurt, 
she was standing by with ban­
dages. Wouldn’t it feel good 
to talk to your mother again 
right now?
Calling over AT&T Long 
Distance Service probably 
costs less than you think, too. 
And if you have any questions 
about AT&T rates or service, 
a customer service repre­
sentative is always standing 
by to talk to you. Just call 
1800 222-0300.
Sure, your schoolwork and 
your friends keep you busy. 
But call home and find out 
what she’s wrapped up in.
Ff6f
The right choice.
YOgHRyGOAA BEgyg O0I 9h0g

---------------------------------------------------

.Pag ePA1POE 
2Oa 0O ephAOog
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR .w
half, but sloppy play and many personal 
fouls allowed the Lady Titans to catch 
up and pull ahead. By the end of the half, 
three CMU starters were in foul trouble, 
and Westminster had scored 18 points, 
out of a possible 21,on the free throw 
line and held a 40-35 lead.
This was the closest the Lady Tartans 
came to the Lady Titans the rest of the 
game. Reber, Chorgo, and Donna 
Spicuzza started the second half with 
three fouls apiece, and all fouled out as 
the contest closed, with Westminster de­
feating Carnegie Mellon, 70-59.
Offensively, the Lady Tartans were 
led by junior Beth Virgin with 16 points, 
with Lightner and Chorgo adding 12 
points each. Chorgo was the dominant 
figure in rebounding, recording 11. 
Lightner had three assists. “We just 
didn’t play well,” said Seidl. “We were 
fouling too much.” In the consolation 
game, Case Western was overwhelmed 
by Brandeis, 77-46.
Swimmers Dive Into New Year; 
Take 5th at Grove City Relays
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The men’s and women’s swim teams swam 
in their first dual meet of the season on Satur­
day, at the Grove City Relays, which pitted 
them against Edinboro, Westminster, Mt 
Union, Buffalo State, and last year’s 
President’s Athletic Conference champion 
Grove City.
The men finished fifth, one point behind 
Grove City, and the two relay teams, the 4-by- 
100 individual medley and the 4-by-100 frees­
tyle relay, captured third place. The medley 
team, consisting of Doug Vuric, Peter Jaffe, 
Scott Seaver, and David Chamberlain, and the 
free-style relay, comprised of Paul Moran, 
John Olsavsky, Hal Levine, and Brian Carter, 
were the team’s highest finishers.
“We swam respectably well for the amount 
of training we’ve done in the last couple of 
weeks,” commented Head Coach Jim Perkins. 
“Finishing one point behind Grove City is 
extremely encouraging since that’s the first 
time we’ve ever been so close to them.”
Perkins added that, “We need help. Sickness
and injuries have taken their toll on the swim­
ming team again.” He said that because of the 
team’s relative inexperience and the number 
of injuries, he is not really dissatisfied with the 
team’s performance in the Relays.
The women also placed fifth with 25 points, 
just behind Buffalo State. The highest finisher 
for the Tartans was the 4-by-100 relay, which 
placed third., Susie Kelly, Amy Stempel, 
Leslie McGill, and Mona Jantzi made up the 
relay team.
Perkins saw promise in the young swim 
team, and feels that with a little help the team 
should have a respectable season. **We*re 
swimming tired like we should be, and we’re 
looking good for this point in the season,” said 
Perkins.
“This is the first time this meet has been 
held,” he added. “All of the other teams have 
established programs, but last year was the 
first time we had a dual meet season, so we’re 
still trying to get established.”
The Tartans’ next meet will be on Decem er 
2 at 5:00 when both the men’s and the 
women’s teams host Westminster.
In the opening round of the NCAA Di­
vision III Football playoffs, #2 Wash­
ington & Jefferson defeated #5 Al­
legheny in overtime, 23-17. An A.Jv 
Pagano touchdown tied the game with 
twelve seconds left to send the game into 
overtime. Hiram was run into the 
ground by #1 Augustana, losing 53-0. 
Augustana has not lost a game in four 
years.
BOWL PICTURE IN FOCUS
Several upsets in Division I football 
helped set the bowl picture. Southern 
Cal is going to the Rose Bowl after they 
beat #5 UCLA. Playing Miami on New 
Year’s Night will be Oklahoma, they 
beat #1 Nebraska without quarterback 
Jamie Holloway. Nebraska will also 
play January 1st in the Fiesta Bowl 
against Florida State.
In another upset Saturday, Penn State 
defeated Notre Dame; however, both 
teams had already accepted bowl bids. 
All three local teams will go to post­
season bowls. Pitt will appear in the 
Bluebonnet Bowl, Penn State in the 
Citrus Bowl, and West Virginia in the 
Sun Bowl.
BRUCE GETS THE BOOT
Ohio State announced earlier this 
week that effective after the final gun of 
the Michigan/Ohio State game Head 
Coach Earl Bruce would be fired. Sen­
timent around college football was in 
favor of Bruce, as his record at Ohio 
State in his nine years of coaching was 
the best in the Big Ten. After the Buck­
eyes fired Bruce, State’s Athletic Direc­
tor Rick Bay turned in his resignation.
DAWSON AND BELL ARE TOPS
Andre Dawson and George Bell were 
named Most Valuable Players of the Na­
tional and American Leagues this past 
week. Dawson, of the Chicago Cubs, 
won the award by dominating in most 
offensive categories this past season. 
Most notably, Dawson led the majors 
with 49 home runs. The American 
League’s MVP was given to Toronto’s 
George Bell, as the outfielder was a 
driving force in the Blue Jays’ drive for 
the pennant.
QUAD-A CHAMPIONSHIP SET
The WPIAL Quad A championship 
will be contested between North Hills 
and Mt. Lebanon this Saturday night at 
Three Rivers Stadium. North Hills 
blanked North Allegheny 28-0, while 
Mt. Lebanon advanced to the finals with 
a 27-20 win over Woodland Hills.
Page 18—The Tartan—November 24, 1987
tbeyndG 01 8sR «sOAAR0lR a Grumman•jf Arwlw engineer faces every day Wef f Ifjrtff demand not only the talent to createJT mm ideas, but also the tenacity to improvethem. That's why we attract engineers who are hard to please - andhard to beat. If you're one of them, and you want to choose from variousengineering positions, let us know. Send your resume to EmploymentManager, Mail Station C07-GHQ, Dept. AK, Grumman Corporation,Bethpage, Long Island, NY11714-3586. Only GRUMMAN
COFFEY STILL UNSIGNED
The Edmonton Oilers’ Paul Coffey is 
still unsigned, and the Oilers are looking 
to dish him and his contract off for 
players who will play. Coffey was a hot 
topic of discussion at the NHL general 
manager’s meeting this past week.
EARLY BASKETBALL SIGNEES
The Georgetown Hoyas and Syracuse 
Orangemen scored big victories for 
their basketball programs this past week 
with early college signings. The Hoyas 
picked up Alonzo Mourning of Chesap­
eake, Virginia, while the Orangemen 
picked up a class of nine headed by the 
USA’s number 2 high school player 
Billy Owens.?RUMMAN’
Lzenship required

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM StatsTartan Sports Calendar
November 24:
November 28: 
November 30:
December 1: 
December 2: 
December 4:
January 2-3:
January 6: 
January 9:
January 10: 
January 13:
January 16:
January 17: 
January 19:
Men’s Basketball vs Point Park College at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at Juniata College, 7:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at Allegheny College, 7:00 pm
Men’s Basketball vs Gettysburg College at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at St. Vincent College, 7:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT (88.3 FM) Guests: TBA
Swimming vs Westminster College, 5:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at New York University, 5:00 pm (WRCT)
Men’s Basketball at New York University, 8:00 pm (WRCT)
Men’s Basketball at Allegheny Tournament, TBA
Women’s Basketball hosts Carnegie Mellon Tournament, TBA
Women’s Basketball vs Gannon College, at Skibo Gym, 6:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at University of Chicago, 5:00 pm
Men’s Basketball at University of Chicago, 7:30 pm
Hockey at Allegheny, 4:30 pm
Hockey vs Penn State-West, at Lakeview, 1:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at John Carroll University, 6:00 pm (WRCT)
Men’s Basketball at John Carroll University, 8:00 pm (WRCT)
Men’s Basketball vs Hiram College at Skibo Gym, 2:00 pm
Women’s Basketball at Hiram College, 7:30 pm
Hockey vs Duquesne at Lakeview, 5:30 pm (WRCT)
Swimming at Hiram College, 2:00 pm 
Hockey vs Allegheny at Kittaning, 11:15 am 
Swimming vs Bethany, 4:00 pm
IM News
Sports In Season 
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner - Carl Bell x5509 
Playoff schedule is posted on the intramural 
bulletin board.
BOWLING
Commissioner - Randy Brown x5501 
All matches are rolled at Strand Lanes; 
schedules and ‘standings are available at 
Strand Lanes. Please pay all bowling fees to 
Strand Lanes.
DARTS
Commissioner - Rob Moses 683-8409 
Schedules are available at the intramural 
office.
CHESS
Commissioner - Matt Murbach x3939 
Playoff matches will be posted on the intra­
mural bulletin board next week.
TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner - Bob Koca x8975 
In the minors final it will be CSO vs the 
inner of Slurps-The Void. In majors, Mellon 
Heads and the Topspinners advance from the 
American League, the two playoff spots from 
the National League are still undetermined.
SOCCER
Commissioners 
Majors - Stu Fox x4226 
Intermediate - Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826 
Women - Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Finals were played on November 22 
Majors - Clyde Gang vs Real Mellon 
Intermediate - ME Grads vs Vacancine’s 5 
Minors - Theta Xi vs Delta Tau Delta-2 
THREE PERSON VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner - Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Schedules are available at the intramural 
office.
Sports Coming Up 
BASKETBALL
Commissioners 
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediates - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottschaefer x5503 
Women - TBA
Rules Clinic will be held on January 12 at 
4:30 pm in the Women’s Gym. All teams must 
have representatives. January 12 will be the 
last day for basketball rosters.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner - A1 Margarella x5516 
Matches will begin next semester
Sports Due January 14,1988
Floor Hockey - Officials are needed for this 
sport Anyone interested in officiating floor 
hockey next semester should stop by the intra­
mural office and pick up the updated rules and 
regulations.
Pinochle
Handball
Noon-time Faculty Basketball - All inter­
ested parties should contact E.J. Birdy at 
x2214.
Old Business
The women’s intramural soccer game 
against Chatham College was cancelled due to 
a lack of players.
A reminder that players may. only be on one 
team per intramural sport.
The board is looking into the Fine Arts Lawn, 
the Cut, and Flagstaff Hill as sites for intramu­
ral competition next year.
The next intramural board meeting will be 
December 3rd at 1pm in the Gym Conference 
Room. An election will be held for vice presi­
dent. Nominated for the position are Stu Fox 
and Mike Hayes.
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter
Patience and sacrifice will be the key words 
to next year’s athletic season at Carnegie 
Mellon. The proposed campus renovations 
include both Tech Field and the IM Fields. 
The plans entail raising Tech Field so it is six 
feet below the IM Field, rotating Tech Field 45 
degrees, building a stadium, and resurfacing 
both playing areas with artificial turf. It will be 
an excellent improvement over the current 
conditions, the only hitch being what will 
happen to next year’s season.
No definite date has been set for the construc­
tion, but November is being looked at follow­
ing the end of the soccer season. The immedi­
ate difficulty will start with the track. Jim 
Banner, director of CMU athletics, remains 
positive about the situation. He claims, “[It’s] 
just a matter of finding a place to practice.”
That seems to be the theme for the next year 
or so. Banner sees the long term effects of the 
renovation as an exciting improvement. Ac­
cording to him, “The excellent programs that 
we’ve had will continue,” and will be en­
hanced due to the added space and better 
conditions.
Banner is not the only one who is enthusiastic 
about the long term effects of the project. Nick
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
MAJORS
NATIONAL LEAGUEWL
CSO40
GSIA31
THE 21’s31
FORCE 1013
THE ROGUES13
RAMPAGING ZULA04
AMERICAN LEAGUEWL
MELLON HEADS50
THE TOPSPINNERS41
KILL SHOTS32
PHI KAPPA13
AEPI14
THE PROF. HITMEN04
MINORS
PACIFIC COAST LEAGUEWL
CSD50
SHEAR STRESS32
THE VOID22
SLURPS22
SMODNOCS23
PILAM05
INTRAMURAL 3-MAN VOLLEYBALL 
MAJORS
A W L
THE WAVE 1 0
216 1 1
COMPOOTER SCIENCE 1 1
THE NIKITANASTY 1 2
BWL
THE MING DYNASTY20
GSIA21
BLANKS01
D.U.13
INTERMEDIATE
AWL
SDC20
MEAT DOGHOUSE20
DTD-B02
DISTRIBUTED02
BwL
PI LAM-A20
NOT BI31 Is11
DTD-A01
AIR FORCE I0\
CWL
TRES FAT GUYS & RAILS2. 0
DONNER DUDES20
FERMAT’CREW II02
PIONEERS-B02
DWL
SPSYCHOS20
PIONEERS-A11
DYNAMIC RAMS11
JERRY’S KIDS II02
Gaudioso, Carnegie Mellon’s soccer coach, 
admits that next year his team is going to 
suffer, but he sees the changes as beneficial 
down the road. “[In the] long term it’s going 
to be excellent, if they do what they say they’re 
going to do,” he proclaimed. Better lighting 
will be put up that will solve many problems of 
practising.
Rob Schlackman, President of intramural 
sports, also is aware of the short term and long 
term effects. Next year will be difficult. The 
loss of a playing field will eliminate the top 
three intramural sports-football, soccer and 
softball. It will hurt team competition and the 
race for the total sports trophy. However, lots 
of sports will be offered so the intramural 
program will not be totally destroyed. Ac­
cording to Schlackman, “Sacrificing one year 
for improved facilities is not that much, pro­
vided it’s done in a year. Students will always 
be interested in intramurals.”
Athletics will have to cope with no home 
games and finding places to practice. Kiltie 
Band, the non-athletic user of Tech Field may 
have an interesting time getting to march next 
year. Practises will also be a problem for them, 
and they need to find, says Kiltie band director 
Paul Gerlach, “60 yards and the width of a 
football field.”
EWL
JERRY’S KIDS I30
ZOO11
GEEK NERDS12
D.U.02
FWL
ECECAD10
PHI KAPPA THETA10
W AW AW’A VI01
EMITE’S LAUZZONA’S01
GWL
PHI KAPPA THETA20
ECE CAD II20
SHU & PEP & CO.02
ORANGE DOT I02
HwL
ZOO-A20
THE DUDES1I
ORANGE DOT 200
PERSONAL02
IWL
GOLDEN GAELS30
AIR FORCE 321
INDECENT ASSAULT02
NADS02
JWL
SUPA SELF SERVING B20
SUPA HEREOS11
AEPI02
MINORS
AWL
PIONEERS C10
SOCIAL MISFITS00
TKB00
TROJANS01
BwL
CIA-B20
PI LAM SLAM00
DEFAULT01
AFROTC01
CwL
PILAMS SHIP OF FOOLS11
CIA-A11
AEPI11
ZOO-A11
DwL
DIRK PITS20
NOT 2B11
THE SCABS11
AEPI02
EwL
PSYCLONES20
ZOO-B20
AEPI02
THE FLAT TIRES02
FWL
SDC20
2B1I
THE BRICK02
Gerlach also cites his band’s dependence on
outside funding it can find next year. Money 
will be needed to transport the members of the 
Kiltie Band to home games, wherever they end 
up being played.
The 88-89 athletic season of Carnegie Mel­
lon will prove to be very interesting for the 
Homeless Tartans. But if all goes as planned 
our athletic facilities will be improved 100%. 
It will require just a little patience, just a little 
sacrifice on the parts of the coaches, the ath­
letes, and the fans. As Schlackman put it, 
“Anything will be better than the dirt on the 
field right now.”
Sports Fans' 
The Tartan is taking the next 
two months off. 
However, look in the sports 
page in January for full cover­
age of men's and women's 
basketball, hockey, and men's 
and women s swimming.
Losing Tech Field: Coaches React

---------------------------------------------------

’sR ’O2yO0
PORT
ao ( 1•tYu ( FcWua’4 ( MWf>Cuuafdc•
Tartans Take Silver and Gold
Darryl Long 
Tourney MVP;
Men Win Title
Westminster’s
Women Crash 
UAA’s Party j
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
There are two sides to everything, including } 
a basketball team.
This was evident at the women’s basketball 
team’s season opener. In the Carnegie Mellon 
Tournament, the Lady Tartans took second 
place, losing to Westminster College 70-59.
Other teams in the tournament included Uni­
versity Athletic Association rivals Brandeis 1 I 
University and Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity.
In the preliminary round of the tournament, 
Brandeis faced Westminster while Cameg.J 
Mellon squared off against Case Western 4 ft 
Reserve.
The Lady Tartans started the game with a 
quick bucket off the tap, and never looked 
back. Carnegie Mellon had a 19-6 lead mid­
way through the first half, and there was 5:47 
left to play in the half before Case was able to 
pull their total scoring to double digits.
The Lady Tartans played offense and d ) 
fense equally well. They kept switching from 
man-to-man to various zone defenses. This 
caused Case to turn the ball over 35 times 
during the contest.
Most of Carnegie Mellon’s offense came 
from the inside, where junior Aimee Reber 
and sophomore Tricia Chorgo combined for 
32 points, 17 and 15 respectively. Chorgo led 
the team in crashing the boards, pulling dow ]
8 rebounds. Junior Lisa Lightner provided the 
team high of 6 assists.
With the half-time score at 37-16, Head 
Coach Gerri Seidl gave the entire squad some 
playing time. “It’s games like this that every­
one gets to play in.” Carnegie Mellon went on 
to win the game 69-30.
Lightner commented on the team’s play. 
“We’ve made a 100% improvement. It fe'! 
like a whole new team, and it is. Everyone 
played really well, and the freshmen should be 
commended for their poise on the court. It’s a 
great way to start a season.” 1 &
Case’s Elaine Cotronakis led the Lady Spar- j 
tans with 17 points. In the other first round 
game, Westminster beat Brandeis 64-55.
On Saturday, the other side of the Lady 
Tartans emerged from the locker room to fac 
Westminster in the tournament championship 
game. No one expected to even see the Lady 
Titans at the tournament. Carlow was sup­
posed to be the fourth team, but was forced to 
withdraw when they realized that they could 
only muster a squad of two players. Half the 
Carlow roster was committed to the NAIA 
Volleyball Championships, while two more 
players were sidelined with injuries.
Within minutes of the opening tap, Chorgo 
had two personal fouls. Foul trouble would be 
the difference in the game; the .Lady Titans 
outscored CMU on the foul line 28-11. To add 
to this, the team was not catching and control­
ling the ball. Carnegie Mellon had 12 turn- _ 
overs in the first half, while Westminster only 
had 6.
The Lady Tartans led for most of the first 
' * ' *v ‘ continued on page 18
NsEyE Gn uyRQ •Rbh0R
Carnegie Mellon Tournament MVP Darryl Long (24) puts up a shot last year at the La 
Jolla Classic in San Diego.
WT00R2g O2R dOyhE0mg dh0ys YRgy
By RICH SHIPLEY
Tartan Staffwriter 
When you ask Coach Meddeyhow the 
men’s cross-country team did at the Na­
tional championships be will tell you they 
did ‘'very welUcoosidering.*
You could tell thatthere was something 
bugging him; there was a sense of sarcasm 
In the wayhesaid^considering" Whatwas 
hugging him wasn’t the team’s perform­
ance; the Tartans eod the year ninth in the 
nation. Instead,itwasthe£actthattheooly 
teams that beat the Tartans have both 
NCAA and NAIA (National Association 
for Intercollegiate Athletics) affiliations. : 
Teams injheNAIA are permitted to give 
scholarships, whik schools that are solely
members of the NCAA’s Division OX may 
not Since the NAIA has competitions for 
track and not cross-country, these teams 
compete in the NCAA cross-country 
events. Coach MecUey referred to this as 
a "bandit" operation because they could 
give scholarships for track and field* and 
then have the same runners there for cross­
country^ the NCAA because they have 
track scholarships, not cross-country 
scholarships.;! Institutions oT 10,000- 
15,000 students are now in Division III 
which seems todefeat the original intent of 
setting up Division HI for small, private 
schools that did not give athletic scholar­
ships.
By STEWART LEVINE 
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Carnegie Mellon men’s basketball team 
opened its 1987-88 season at home, hosting a 
tournament with a large share of attention 
placed on the team.
Attention was paid to the first appearances 
by University Athletic Association rivals 
Brandeis and Emory at Skibo Gym.
Attention was paid to senior captain Hart 
Coleman. The 6’7" center from Pittsburgh’s 
Brashear High was expected to carry the bur­
den left by graduates Pete Cwalina and David 
Bart from last year’s 11-12 squad.
Attention was even paid to the two trips to 
Florida the Athletic Department was giving 
away instead of diskettes (which a company 
did provide as a promotion).
Attention was not initially paid to forward 
Darryl Long. The 6’3" Columbus, Ohio native 
let loose with the best weekend of his career, 
before one of the largest Skibo Gym crowds in 
recent history. The junior compiled 54 points, 
13 rebounds, and five steals over two games to 
earn tournament MVP honors. His numbers 
paced the Tartans to 80-69 and 87-80 victories 
over Emory and Brandeis respectively.
Tartan Head Coach Larry Anderson had 
nothing but compliments after Long’s open­
ing night performance. The fifth-year coach 
proclaimed, “In the press conference [last 
Wednesday’s President’s Athletic Confer­
ence media luncheon] I said Darryl Long may 
be our best athlete. He proved it tonight. He 
was the best player on the court.”
In the opening round of the tournament, the 
two teams were well matched. Emory’s pro­
gram is only in its second year of play, but the 
young squad had brought people who could 
play.
Emory’s Eagles were led by sophomore 
sensation Tim Garrett. In his freshman year, 
the forward from Rome, Ga. was named to the 
All-South squad. In fact, Garrett could have 
been a much more familiar player to many 
fans; he turned down an offer to play at Penn 
State in order to be closer to home.
While Garrett was good, Long was better. 
Carnegie Mellon’s man sank nine of ten from 
the floor in the first half, leading all scorers 
with 18 points.
Not only was Long on, but the entire Tartan 
team was involved in the game. Carnegie 
Mellon had problems last season defending 
against the three point shot, but they had no 
such worries against Emory. In the first half 
the Eagles were three of 15 from 19’9" or 
more, and they finished the game slightly 
better at four of 19.
Furthermore, the Tartans discovered that 
they could have an outside game as well. Last 
year’s edition of the men’s team only sank 28 
three point shots all season, 23 coming from 
the now-graduated Roger DeVries. Senior 
center David Smith doubled his 1986-87 out­
put with two bombs in the first half, and 
returning guard Michael Stewart added two 
more to the Tartan effort.
continued on page 17
NsEyE Gn c0In ?hAARgNhR
Aimee Reber drives the line against Westminster in the Tournament Final.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
I INSIDE I
COMEDY_____________Page D3
AT&T Comedy Tour presents three very 
different comedians
JOE BOB...................Page Dll
Joe Bob gives a stirring account of what a 
typical Joe Bob day is like
Jean De Florette is Cinematic Triumph
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH 
Diversions Staffwriter
In 1963, at the age of fifty-seven, author 
Marcel Pagnol, one of France’s most beloved 
playwrights and filmmakers, released his two 
book epic L’Eau Des Colines, (The Water 
From The Hills.) The novel, based on an ear­
lier film project by Pagnol, detailed the story 
of the downfall of a city man turned farmer at 
the hands of conniving landowners in the 
Provence region of France, and his daughter’s 
attempts to avenge his death. Twenty four 
years later this classic novel has been brought 
to the screen in two parts by director Claude 
Bern. The first film, Jean De Florette, pre­
miered in Pittsburgh yesterday.
Director Bern is no stranger to cinematic 
risks. He has produced such influential and
controversial films as Tess, Polanski’s Repul­
sion and Jean Jacques Annaud’s The Name of 
the Rose. Jean De Florette, and its sequel, 
Manon Des Sources (“Manon of the Spring”) 
represent his biggest gamble yet. The films are 
the most opulent ever made in France, pro­
duced at a cost of 17 million dollars. Most 
importantly, in tackling Pagnol’s story, Berri 
faced the unenviable task of translating one of 
France’s most beloved works of literature to 
film, works which had already been filmed by 
Pagnol himself with less than satisfactory 
results.
The gamble paid off. Jean De Florette 
opened to stunning reviews and revenues, out­
performing such popular films as Raiders of 
the Lost Ark and Ramho in its native country as 
well as in most of Europe. As impressive as the
Yves Montand and Gerard Depardieu in Jean de Florette
film’s boxoffice receipts have been around the 
world, the list of awards that have been be­
stowed upon it by the cinematic community 
including France’s Grand Prize of the Na­
tional Cinema Academy is just as impressive. 
Jean De Florette tells the first half of 
Pagnol’s story. Jean, a city tax collector, inher­
its a plot of land in Provence and moves his 
family to the country to attempt to use modem 
methods to build a productive farm. In his 
innocent optimism Jean does not realize that 
his neighbors, whom he perceives as friends 
have designs on the land, and that his neighbor, 
the elderly Cesar Soubeyran (also referred to 
as “Papet”), along with his nephew, Ugolin, 
have contrived a plan to cut off Jean’s water 
supply and drive him to sell the land. The film 
provides a harsh idealistic contrast between 
Jean De Florette’s faith in his modem methods 
and friends and the evil of the Soubeyrans. 
This contrast is at the center of the drama in the 
film, as Jean is drawn to his demise by his 
enemies and by a land he does not understand.
Gerard Depardieu heads the cast in the title 
role. Depardieu is one of France’s best known 
leading men, charming international audi­
ences in both comedic and dramatic roles 
alike. His diverse credits involve roles such as 
the straight man to comedian Pierre Richard in 
Francis Veber’sLa Chevre and Les Comperes 
as well as such acclaimed films asDanton, The 
Return of Martin Guerre, and Truffaut’s The 
Last Metro. Depardieu is an accomplished 
director as well, having brought such classics 
as Moliere’s Tartuffe to the screen. Depardieu 
has nothing but praise for the film incarnation 
of Pagnol’s novel: “It is beautiful...everything 
is in it, the land, the water, the men...this is film 
the way I imagined it as a child.”
Gerard Depardieu is not the only distin­
guished figure in the cast. Starring as the evil 
Cesar Soubeyran is French actor and singer 
Yves Montand. Montand’s vocal and acting 
talent has overwhelmed audiences all over the 
world. He has the distinction of being the first 
popular singer in history ever to command the 
stage of New York’s Metropolitan Opera 
alone. Montand’s career as a singer alone has 
brought him considerable success, but as an 
actor, his appearances in films such as Costa 
Gavras’ Z and State of Siege as well as numer­
ous Hollywood productions such as George 
Cukor’s Let’s Make Love and Is Paris Burn­
ing? have cemented his reputation as an inter­
national superstar. In the role of Cesar 
Soubeyran in both Jean De Florette and it’s 
sequel, Manon of the Spring, Montand has 
received unanimous praise. French critic Jean 
Roy said of his performance “Montand is the 
incarnation of Papet.” It is only fitting that one 
French legend (Montand) should give life to 
the artistic creation of another French legend 
(Pagnol).
Holding his own alongside these two giants 
is Daniel Auteuil. Auteuil handles the difficult 
task of carrying the role of Ugolin, Papet’s 
deformed nephew. In fact, Auteuil almost 
forfeited the role since he was about to sign as 
one of the leads in Coline Serreau's Three Men 
And A Cradle, released in the US in early 1986. 
Auteuil’s perseverance in pursuing the role of 
Ugolin, for which he had to act through dental 
prosthetics and heavy make up, paid off since 
he received France’s 1986 Cesar award 
(equivalent to the American Oscar) and 
Belgium’s 1987 St. Michel award for the role.
Producing Jean De Florette and its sequel 
«E0yh0TRI E0 NOpR ,.
PSO Flawless Under Russian Conductor
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter
Yuri Temirkanov conducted the Pittsburgh 
Symphony last weekend in a program featur­
ing two works of Russian composers and a 
Mozart concerto featuring soloist Elmar Ol­
iveira. Temirkanov, one of the greatest con­
ductors of the U.S.S.R., led the symphony in a 
program that included Mussorgsky’s Intro­
duction to Khovanshchina, Tchaikovsky’s 
Manfred Symphony and Mozart’s Concerto 
No. 3 in G Major for Violin and Orchestra, K. 
216.
Temirkanov, the artistic director and chief 
conductor of the Kirov Opera in Leningrad 
and principal guest conductor of the Royal 
Philharmonic Orchestra, made his Pittsburgh 
debut this weekend in a concert that featured 
his masterful conducting.
The concert began with the unusual piece, 
Prelude to Khovanshchina by Mussorgsky. 
The Prelude expresses Mussorgsky’s goal of 
portraying “the soul of the Russian people” in 
its imagery of Moscow at dawn. Although 
Mussorgsky was unable to finish the piece 
before his death, it was completed by Rimsky- 
Korsakov with all of the original composer’s 
goals intact.
Temirkanov’s conducting of the Prelude was 
flawless and the performances of the Sym­
phony, particularly the woodwinds and the 
strings, was exquisite. The Prelude to 
Khovanshchina opens with a mournful and 
lyrical line in the strings and breathtakingly 
beautiful woodwind solos representing the 
rise of the sun above the horizon. The music 
grows livelier throughout the piece to symbol­
ize the sun’s ascent. The piece ends in a gentle 
chord between the woodwinds and strings as 
the morning mist overcomes the city.
The concert continued with Mozart’s Con­
certo No. 3 in G Major for Violin and Orches­
tra featuring soloist Elmar Oliveira. Oliveira 
presented a technically perfect and effective 
interpretation of the Concerto. In the first 
movement, Allegro, Oliveira’s playing was 
impressive even though the tempo seemed to 
drag. The second movement, Adagio, featured 
Olivieira’s lucid and beautiful tone as he lyri­
cally expressed Mozart’s melody. Oliveira’s 
abilities were culminated in the last move­
ment, Rondeau: Allegro, and his triumphant 
performance concluded as the Concerto ended 
in a soothing chord between the oboes and
Yuri Temirkanov
homs.
The last selection for the program, 
Tchaikovsky’s Manfred Symphony, was un­
doubtedly the strongest of the evening. In this 
piece Temirkanov and the Symphony united 
to give a flawless and stirring performance. 
Tchaikovsky was inspired to write this Sym­
phony by a Lord Byron poem which described 
the despair of Manfred, who wandered 
through the Alps after suffering from an unre­
quited love. The Symphony is comprised of 
four movements: Lento lugubre-Allegro non 
troppo, Vivace con sprito, Andante con moto 
and Allegro con fuoco.
In the first movement, Lento lugubre-Alle- 
gro non troppo, Temirkanov effectively 
«E0yh0TRI E0 NOpR ,.
Elmar Oliveira
a2hgs ’sROy2R 1E!
By MICHAEL ROSE
Assistant Dversions Editor
Starting December 2, the Kresge Theatre 
in the College of Fine Arts will play host to 
the finest young performers of the Irish 
theatre as the Irish Universities Theatre 
Company arrives on the 16th stop of their 
premiere American ‘87-‘88 tour. The 
Company has, so far, played at schools 
such as Wesleyan, Harvard, MIT, Brown, 
and Columbia, and goes on to Yale later in 
December.
Carnegie Mellon is the only stop on the 
tour where all four plays will be performed. 
The schedule is as follows: On Wednesday 
December 2 at 8 pm, Beckett’s Waiting For 
Godot; on Thursday at 8, Graham Reid’s 
The Death of Humpty Dumpty, on Friday at 
8, Brian Friel’s Winners', and on Saturday, 
at 2 pm and at 8, J.M. Synge’s Playboy of 
the Western World.
The Irish Universities Theatre Company 
was formed this past June as an offshoot of 
the Irish Student Drama Association. The 
Association has been holding an annual 
festival in Ireland for over 20 years, and 
after this year's extraordinarily successful 
festival, Artistic Director Richard Cook 
came up with the idea of forming a touring 
company made up of students and gradu­
ates of the major Irish universities. The 
IUTC was formed with the specific dual 
goals of providing experience to talented 
young Irish performers and demonstrating 
the depth of Irish theatre to audiences 
abroad. s«E0yh0TRI E0 NOpR yhA L

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—November 24,1987
,O0«R 1ET0«hA >h0OAR
PITTSBURGH—Annabelle Gamson Dance Solos will close out the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council’s 1987 Stephen Foster Theatre season on Friday and Saturday at 8 pm and Sunday 
at 3 pm, December 4,5, and 6. Tickets for this performance are available for $8, $14, and 
$16 through the PDC office (355-0330), the Stephen Foster Theatre Box Office (624- 
PLAY), or the TIX Booth downtown.
Annabelle Gamson has sifted through a vast array of puzzling and often incomplete 
records to recreate, through performance, the works of such noted modem dance pioneers { 
as Isadora Duncan (1887-1927), German expressionist Mary Wigman (1886-1973), 
Doris Humphrey and still active Eleanor King (1906-). The reappearance of these nearly- 
lost works has been a consuming passion of Ms. Gamson’s since her early dance training 
with Duncan’s long-time friend, Julia Levien. Annabelle Gamson’s early performances 
in the 1970’s concentrated exclusively on the solo works of Isadora Duncan. After much 
critical acclaim, Gamson formed her own company of dance soloists and expanded the 
repertoire to include Wigman and King’s solo masterpieces. Although many early dance 
revivals have been mounted in an attempt to imitate these great artists, Gamson’s work is 
set apart by her disdain for imitation. Instead, Gamson focuses on the inherent structure 
of the dance and emphasizes the art of theatrical projection to allow the dance to become 
more lifelike. This approach to Duncan’s work and the solo works of others makes 
Gamson’s program less stodgy or studied.
Annabelle Gamson’s research has taken her all over the globe, especially Europe, where 
Duncan and Wigman performed more frequently and were more readily accepted. 
Gamson has pieced together these very early dances by interviewing the original company 
members, examining composers’ notes, gleaning any available film clips or photos, and 
reading over scares of critical reviews written at the time. For her Pittsburgh program, 
Gamson lias programmed over twenty dance pieces. The first portion of the program is a 
collage-like grouping of excerpts from Duncan's dances, followed by her famous “Dance 
of the Furies,” Wigman’s “Witch Dance,” and King's “Song of the Earth.” The final third 
of the program includes nine dances choreographed by Gamson herself to music by 
Johannes Brahms. There will be a 15 minute question and answer session immediately 
following the concert. Annabelle Gamson’s performance and residency activities are 
supported in part by grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Pennsyl­
vania Council on the Arts.
The Pittsburgh Dance Council, in an effort to attract students to dance, has announced the 
availability of a specially discounted student subscription package to the 1988 Downtown 
Dance series at the new Benedum Center for the Performing Arts. For $ 18, plus $1.50 for 
postage and handling, students at area colleges can attend three conceits: Nikolais Dance 
Theatre (January 16), Dance Theatre of Harlem (March 11 or 12), and the Jazz Tap 
Ensemble (May 21). To qualify for a student discount, each college student must send the 
Dance Council a photocopy of their current ID and a check or money order for $ 19.50 to: 
600 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 16222 or call (412) 355-0330 for more information.. 
Subscription deadline will be Saturday, January 16.
Jean De Florette to show in Pgh.
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ,e
was a logistics nightmare for the cast and crew. 
The demands of the stray, requiring that 
scenes for both movies be shot during all four 
seasons (a recurring motif for the passage of 
time in the films) forced the film makers to 
break down a script consisting of over 651 
scenes into a shooting schedule covering thirty 
seven weeks. The costumes for the stars were 
imported from Italy, along with stock cos­
tumes for over 500 extras which populate 
Bern’s landscape.
The crew also had to import over one 
hundred “Giant of Flanders” rabbits for cer­
tain scenes. At times, the film’s production 
schedule demanded Jean’s garden to go from 
being planted to being completely parched, 
overnight. Over 15,000 square feet of vegeta­
tion, as well as hundreds of polystyrene vege­
tables, were obtained, and the crew had to 
plant and re-plant entire areas to accommodate 
the film.
Logistics aside, the film makers found them­
selves facing personal problems as well. For 
example, Depardieu’s schedule of over three 
films a year found him commuting back and 
forth between the sets of different films in 
order to accommodate a schedule the length of 
Berri’s film. Depardieu’s films Police and 
One Woman or Two were completed and fin­
ished, during the filming of Jean De Florette. 
Yves Montand had a lot to contend with during 
the filming as well. Actress Simone Signoret, 
his wife of thirty-four years, died on Septem­
ber 30, 1985, at the age of sixty-four.
For all of the hardships encountered by Berri 
and his crew in making Jean De Florette the 
film’s success has brought them both artistic 
and monetary satisfaction. More importantly, 
the film has caused a resurgence of interest in 
the works of Marcel Pagnol. It is ironic that 
Pagnol’s widow, Jacqueline, originally ob­
jected to the production. In a statement to the
French press after the film’s release she stated, 
“Marcel told me ‘One day someone will bring 
this book to the screen.’ Now its been done. 
Well done.”
The film’s run at the Playhouse will bring 
Pittsburgh audiences in touch with what is 
arguably the master works of the modem 
French cinema. It is suggested that audiences 
remain until after the end credits for Jean De 
Florette, a trailer for its already completed 
sequel, Manon of the Spring which details 
Jean’s daughter’s revenge against the 
Soubeyrans, will be shown. The film will run 
at the playhouse through December 13th, with 
daily showings at 7:00 pm and 9:10 pm. There 
will be additional late shows on Fridays and 
Saturdays at 11:15 pm. Admission is $2.95.
Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Russian Pro­
gram “Inspiring”
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ,e
guided the Symphony through the tempo 
changes symbolizing Manfred’s despair and 
his surges of happiness brought on by his 
memories. The brass were impressively strong 
in this movement.
The second movement, Vivace con sprito, 
was refreshingly brilliant. The woodwind 
solos were superb and the strings expressed 
the eerie imagery of the Alps. The Alps also 
figure prominently in the theme of the third 
movement, Andante con moto, in which the 
yodeling of the mountaineers emerges 
through the woodwinds.
Allegro con fuoco, the last movement, was 
an inspiring conclusion to the program as the 
Symphony and Temirkanov united to express 
Manfred’s death and the reconciliation of the 
Symphony and of Manfred’s suffering.
9RI0RgIOn
December 
8:30 & 11:30

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
,<â
AT&T Sponsors for Comedy Show at Pitt
By AMANDA COHEN
Diversions Comedy Critic
Did you know that the phone company has a 
sense of humor? AT&T is currently sponsor­
ing a college comedy tour in hopes of boosting 
popularity with students. Pitt Program Coun­
cil took advantage of the promotion package 
and hosted Larry “Bud” Melman, Rita Rud- 
ner, and Emo Philips on November 9. With 
one wild show at David Lawrence Audito­
rium, the University of Pittsburgh topped our 
entire semester’s offering of comedians.
If you’re not familiar with Melman, Rudner, 
or Philips, consider a music concert with the 
motley line-up of the Temple City Kazoo 
Orchestra, Suzanne Vega, and Moody Blues. 
All three have achieved reputable national 
status, but they have next to nothing in com­
mon. Together on the same stage, they pre­
sented a diverse show, to say the least.
miere female comedians of this decade, she 
has only been performing stand-up for seven 
years. She was working as an actress/singer/ 
dancer before she started talking for a living 
until she found that comedy was less competi­
tive. “I just noticed that there weren’t too many 
women doing it,” she said of her career move. 
“I’m really glad I got in on the comedy boom 
early because it’s really very difficult to start 
out now.”
Onstage and off, Rudner is a quiet, petite 
woman, but by no means mousy. She stood in 
one place for most of her act, barely changing 
the pitch in her voice, wondering about some 
of the simple things in life, such as love, death, 
children, and whether or not cats are a waste of 
fur. Describing her own fashion-conscious- 
ness, she warned against the hazards of 
“shoulder-pad build-up,” wherein the blouse, 
sweater, and jacket all pile on the padding.
bad...” quips Philips. He began his act with 
three layers of ragamuffin clothes and closed 
with all but his pajama-top stuffed into his 
plaid pants. At one point he removed his sock 
through a hole in his shoe. Never once did he 
stop amorphously translocating around the 
stage, sometimes balancing on the stool, 
sometimes wandering over to the piano or the 
blackboard. Often the beanpole figure would 
pause and stare directly into the spotlight, 
looking very much like an innocent rodent
about to be plowed over by a car.
In his unique style of delivery, the situations 
Philips describes border on normality until the 
very last word: “People come up to me, con­
cerned ... that I’ll reproduce.” He made at least 
four references to brains exploding. His sing­
song voice betrays a wild mind few have 
ventured to comprehend. The Pitt audience 
gave up trying to figure him out and just 
enjoyed his performance.
'MRENAR «EUR TN yE URP «E0«R20RI 
!!! ysOy amAA 2RN2EIT«R!5 KCUE MshAAhNg
Larry “Bud” Melman’s name in real life is 
Calvert DeForest, but he deals very little with 
real life. He is best known for his appearances 
as the pathetic, dottering foil for David Letter- 
man. On “Late Night,” Melman’s cue-cards 
stay off camera, but for his stage show, the 
cards are right down in front where everyone 
can see them. He never hides the fact that he’s 
reading his lines and reads even more blatantly 
when referring to his talents of improvisation.
Melman performed for about fifteen minutes 
before, between, and after the two comedians, 
although as emcee, he had no place perform­
ing after the headliner. On the other hand, his 
“Dating Game” piece between Rudner and 
Philips’ acts was nearly excuseable. Three 
young women were chosen from the audience 
to be questioned by Melman a la Dating 
Game, thus relieving him of the burden of 
creating snappy repartee. Larry “Bud” Mel­
man is a cult figure, not a performer.
Rita Rudner is a performer. One of the pre­
“Walking down the street, people try to tackle 
me,” she said.
Her act was well-received, although she did 
not inspire the foot-stomping, primal chanting 
that Melman enjoyed. Apparently she was too 
intellectual for the “Bud” audience. After the 
show, a crowd of students lined up to get 
Melman’s autograph while Rudner was 
mostly ignored. She was, however, a far supe­
rior performer, drawing on the subtleties of the 
human comedy rather than a few references to 
toast-on-a-stick.
Unlike Emo Philips, Rudner has never re­
leased an album. Her material is 100% 
squeaky clean, specially prepared for televi­
sion and occasional radio appearances, but she 
has chosen not to record just yet. We can 
always hope.
Philips just released his second album, “Live 
at Hasty Pudding Theatre,” earlier this year. 
It’s on the Epic label, just like Michael 
Jackson’s latest. “They thought my album was
1EUh« M2EqhARD LOn •R0E
By AMANDA COHEN
Diversions Comedy Critic
Jay Leno is the hottest stand-up comedian working today. Period. No gimmicks. No 
props. No impressions. No costumes. No waxy build-up. Just straight, cool stand-up 
comedy. The all-American comic did a generous two-hour show at the Syria Mosque last 
Wednesday, satisfying Pittsburgh’s deep craving for pure comedy.
After a brief round-up of the most recent governmental escapades, Leno began his usual 
commentary on the many faults of men, women, business, and the country in general. He 
spoke the unadulterated truth, interjecting surreal images and sarcasm only to illustrate his 
points. He communicated primarily through one-liners, flicking his pink tie and running 
his hand through his impeccable salt-and-pepper hair for particular emphasis. He also told 
a few hilarious and oddly believeable stories, and about a quarter of the act was new 
material.
The audience did not so much laugh as applaud in agreement with Leno’s observations, 
while laughing as a secondary response. Most people could in some way relate to the story 
about Leno’s wife being on the “rm-not-eating-I’ll-just-have-a-bite-of-yours” diet Leno 
himself, though not without his complaints for fast-food restaurants, claimed, “If it’s not 
in a styrofoam box with a lid, I won’t eat it”
In his thirty minutes of conversing with audience members, Leno let them introduce new 
topics for him to shoot down. One man identified himself as a pilot for Delta airlines. Leno, 
being on the cutting edge of modem stand-up, knew that Delta jokes were already 
becoming passe and didn’t grille the man as much as the audience would have liked. He 
spotted another fan who was wearing a “Jay Leno’s Evil Twin” t-shirt and munching 
Doritos, the essence of subtlety. One fellow in the third row was wearing an Andover 
sweatshirt which attracted Leno’s attention because Andover, Massachusetts, is the 
comic’s hometown.
Continuing his high-power critique of slasher movies, commercials, pets, and relation­
ships, Leno reaffirmed his image as the American male ego incarnate — clean-cut, but 
macho and cynical.
He demonstrated his clear view of society ’ s problems with razor-sharp wit, but like most 
comedians and politicians, made no suggestions about fixing them. Then again, a society 
without problems would be a society without comedians.
Emo Phillips: “This is how I am”
By AMANDA COHEN
Diversions Comedy Critic 
After the AT&T show, Emo Philips, the 
human tree-frog, took a few minutes to talk 
about his life as one of the weirdest comedians 
working today. Fighting autograph hunters 
and starry-eyed fans, he retreated backstage to 
the security of a stairwell perch. It should be 
noted that for the entire duration of the inter­
view, Emo ate a grape.
DIV: What do you think of Pittsburgh?
EMO: I think it’s one of the most beautiful 
cities in the world. I really do. It’s very lovely 
and it just ... because of the trees and hills I 
think it’s a very attractive city no matter what 
you people try to do to ruin it.
DIV: I’ll bet you say that about all cities. 
EMO: I’ve always thought Pittsburgh was one 
of the prettiest cities in the country. ‘Cause 
I’ve always had a bad rap, ‘cause there’s not 
that many black people that know how to 
rhyme songs.
DIV: How do you compare being on the road 
to living at home in beautiful Downer’s 
Grove?
EMO: I like being on the road better because 
when I’m in a hotel, as opposed to when I’m at 
home, the manager never says “Hey, Emo, 
why don’t you mow the lawn outside ... why 
don’t you do the dishes for us,” whereas you 
get that at home. Of course, at home, my mom 
never knocks at seven a.m. on the door saying
“housekeeping.” She knocks on my head.
DIV: Have you ever given a straight inter­
view?
EMO: This is how I am, hot mama, take it or 
leave it, you sexy bag of estrogen.
DIV: Have you ever not been this way? 
EMO: Well, yeah. I don’t score as often on 
stage. But I figure if I can make just one person 
laugh, I’m already doing a lot better than those 
new FOX Network sit-coms.
DIV: What do you think of some of the other 
comedians working today?
EMO: Well, I think a lot of them are very 
funny, and I think this show is very good. You 
got me and Rita Rudner and Larry “Bud” 
Melman. It’s your only chance to see us all 
together unless you have very sick fantasies or 
do acid.
DIV: It is an odd combination.
EMO: They [AT&T] tried to appeal to all ages 
and demographics.
DIV: But it’s mostly college students.
EMO: Yeah, but you get the odd 25-year-old 
grad student, and you gotta reach him, you 
know.
DIV: Any particular reason you didn’t play 
either of your songs?
EMO: I had to keep the show to 45 minutes ... 
due to health ordinances. They said that if I
would have gone longer I would have had to 
wash myself. I’m the only comedian that has to 
perform in a hair-net, but tonight I broke the 
law. I used a fish net. That’s my hook. Is this 
a real paper?
DIV: No — I mean, yes, this is a real paper. 
EMO: No? Ha! Caught you in a web of contra­
diction, you saucy little sexual pit bull.
DIV: Stop that. We’re trying to be serious. 
EMO: Okay.
DIV: Now, when did you decide on comedy as 
a career?
EMO: Well, when I was a little boy, my mom 
used to laugh hysterically at everything I said. 
I thought, “I want to be a comedian,” so I did. 
And last week I realized that she laughs hys­
terically at everything that everyone says. But 
now it’s too late. But she’s in a home, so we’re 
happy.
DIV: Was there a particular time you decided 
to go into the business?
EMO: When I was 18,1 really wanted to do it, 
but back then, unless you had connections 
with the manager of a Shakey’s Pizza Parlor, 
you didn’t... you know. But after a while, the 
Funny Bone opened up in Pittsburgh and I 
went there and I said “I want to be a come­
dian.”
DIV: I thought you started in Chicago.
EMO: I started in Chicago. I guess 1 drove too
far that night. I like to just keep driving, you 
know. I love the Funny Bone. It's on Sawmill 
Run Boulevard. It’s great.
DIV: How did audiences receive you when 
you started?
EMO: With stony silence. 1 used to do a 55 
minute tribute to Benjamin Disraeli called 
“Benji, we hardly knew you" and people said
I was just doing Lincoln and I said “well, he's 
not circumcised.”
DIV: But really now. How was it starting out? 
EMO: It was exciting, and it was a laugh a 
minute, which is not a good average in my 
profession. But I kept at it. I kept my nose to the 
grindstone.
DIV: It’s done wonders for your profile. 
EMO: Yeah, it was fun. I kept my neck to the 
millstone. It was exciting. And here I am being 
interviewed by someone — I don't know who 
you are.
DIV: That’s okay, because I know how you are 
and that's all that really counts because I'm 
writing the story.
EMO: Okay. I like a woman that takes control.
DIV: Anything else you think the world ought 
to know about you
EMO: Just tell people that no matter how 
rough things get, no matter how tough their 
lives may become, if they just buy my new 
records, at least I’ll make money.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—November 24,1987
lillliii
WMÉÊ>-''f... .............
PENGUINS PLAYERS DAY 
SINGLES NIGHT ; " * , : Igl<j
VALENTINE’S DAY SKATE IS 
COLLEGE ID NIGHT
(Every Tuesday 501 off regular adult 
admission with valid college I.D.) %
What are you doing this winter for exercise? 
How about ice skating in Schenley Park? 
CITIPARKS has an excellent facility 
providing:
—PUBLIC SKATING SESSIONS
—RESERVED ICE FOR PARTIES AND HOCKEY
—BANQUET/MEETING ROOM FACILITIES 
(with fully equipped kitchen - accomodates 150)
for MORE INFORMATION:
Session Times/Prices Rink Rental/
Banuet Facilities
422-6523
422-6547
HIDING OUT
,h2R«yRI Gn YEG ?h2OAIh; Q2hyyR0 Gn LER 
oR0EgHn & LRqq WEysGR2p; M2EIT«RI Gn 
LRqq WEysGR2p! ,hgy2hGTyRI Gn ,C?; 
WOyRI W
uyO2gD LEs0 12nR2P c00OGRys ?hgsP 
fAhbR2 1EyyE0
NUTS
Directed by Martin Ritt; written by 
Tom Topor; produced by Barbra 
Streisand. Warner Bros; Rated R 
Stars: Barbra Streisand, Richard 
Dreyfuss, Maureen Stapleton.
12nR2 dEy •ROIh0p oO0 oOyR2hOAImpeccable Dialogue in Nuts
By TODD VANDERHEYDEN
Special to Diversions
Ah, to be young again. To those of us con­
cerned with tuition bills, dressing for success, 
and TA’s who take 50% off for homework five 
minutes late, high school may seem a bliss­
fully simple time of worrying about things that 
hardly matter now, like a social life. As a 
stockbroker on the run, Jon Cryer returns to the 
days of SAT’s and detention in Bob Giraldi’s 
comedy Hiding Out.
CryerV character, Andrew Morenski, has 
more to worry about than the recent stock 
market drop. As a witness in a mobster's bond 
scandal trial, he is marked for death by an 
assassin heavily armed and wearing Art Major 
Black (Oliver Cotton). Fleeing to the suburbs, 
he arranges to meet his aunt at an area high 
school but instead decides to pose as transfer 
student Maxwell Housssse... Hauser. With the 
help of his greasy-haired cousin (Keith 
Coogan), he struggles to keep a low profi le and 
stay out of trouble.
This proves difficult, however, as Maxwell's 
outspokenness and Nixon-era knowledge 
make him an unwilling candidate for senior 
class president and earn him the romantic 
attentions of his rival candidate’s ex-girl­
friend, Ryan (Annabeth Gish). As both the 
killer and the less-than-reassuring FBI move 
closer to Topsail High School, Maxwell/ 
Andrew must stay out of sight, rip down all the 
posters with his picture on them, and decide 
whether or not to get involved with a woman 
nine years his junior.
Hiding Out is a crossover film for Cryer in 
that he switches from adolescent to adult roles 
and tries toestablish himself as a leading rather 
than supporting character. Unfortunately the 
22-year-old actor is a believable high school 
senior, but not a believable stockbroker. The 
pre-transformation beard and demeanor look 
totally fake; they are perhaps appropriate for
Barbra Streisand puts in an outstanding performance in Nuts
As Levinsky, Dreyfuss is painfully hu­
man, mesmerizing to watch. So much stage 
presence; he looks good even behind those 
square, Michael Caine glasses. You can see 
the wheels turning. Watch him stall, hem 
and haw, shift gears, probe. Dreyfuss takes 
the dialogue and puts the calculation in. 
Levinsky is not slick, but he is under no 
illusions; after all, he was assigned to 
Claudia’s case after she decked her family 
attorney in the courtroom. Draper asks, 
’’You any good?” He replies, “You had 
good. Now you’ve got me.” Levinsky isn’t 
always sure of his client or himself, but he 
makes you believe in him. Plus he does the 
things you want to do in the movie, like 
telling loudmouth Claudia to shut up, or 
dressing down the shrink.
Streisand’s Claudia fits Levinsky’s de­
scription; “This is the kind of woman you 
want to beat with a belt.” Yet even as 
Levinsky unravels the case, Claudia wins 
you over. Satisfying as the public 
defender’s work is to watch, without her 
emotional drive it would be a biology lab 
dissection. Streisand’s Draper is an earthy, 
erotic woman. “I can take your body to 
heaven, and your mind southward,” she 
says as she reels off to the prosecuting 
attorney the respective fees and favors
Eli Wallach also have supporting roles.
Adapted from Tom Topor’s play, Nuts re­
tains much of the feel of a stage play, yet 
unlike some adaptations of plays, makes 
good use of space. Of course, mental 
institutions always seem confining. It 
compares favorably with another court­
room drama, Paul Newman’s The Verdict. 
In both films the deck is heavily stacked 
against the protagonists, yet the momen­
tum builds, the pendulum inexorably 
swings. In Nuts, however, the defendant 
plays an active, though not always helpful, 
role in her defense. Though there is some 
soapboxing, especially at the end, and more 
outbursts by Claudia than would ever be 
allowed in a real court of law, the dialogue 
dovetails and yet is real. The film’s ele­
ments fit together, right down to the carica­
tures Claudia draws.
The film’s only real flaw may be its mar­
keting. On the movie poster Streisand’s 
face has a look of consternation and/or 
constipation, suggesting along with the 
title a romantic comedy splice of Legal 
Eagles, Stir Crazy, and Outrageous For­
tune. For this reason a portion of its rightful 
audience may not catch Nuts until it hits 
cable. Nuts is solid, professional art that 
bums in. Don’t wait.
someone dressing up older in a high school 
play. While fine in supporting roles, Cryer, 
like Walter Mondale, is simply not leading 
role material. He blends into the background 
too often, failing to capture the viewer’s inter­
est.
This is still an entertaining film. Maxwell’s 
dealings with idiosyncratic teachers in a re­
pressed, foreign environment provide much 
enjoyment. Especially funny are Cousin 
Patrick’s attempts to pass his permit test and to 
romance a myopic Cyndi Lauper wannabee 
(Alexandra Auder). Hiding Out is an excellent 
film to take a younger relative to see without 
fear of scoldings from Mom. At the same time 
it's too bad we don't see more of the Ryan- 
Max well romance. This John Hughes trend of 
teenage growing-up movies with no sex is 
disturbing.
Jon Cryer in Hiding Out
By TODD VANDERHEYDEN
Special to Diversions
This is a movie you will think about for a 
long time. Impeccable dialogue and intense 
performances from Barbra Streisand and 
Richard Dreyfuss come together in Martin 
Ritt’s courtroom drama, Nuts, making a 
film gripping at both the mental and the 
emotional level.
Charged with manslaughter, courtesan 
Claudia Draper’s (Streisand) psychiatrists, 
parents, and own emotional outbursts mark 
her incompetent to stand trial. Public de­
fender Aaron Levinsky (Dreyfuss) moves 
to contest the findings, if only to spite the 
judge who dragged him into the case at the 
last minute. Investigating the circum­
stances of the temperamental Mrs. Draper, 
however, Levinsky is convinced all is not 
what it seems. This methodical baring of 
the life and soul of Claudia Faith Draper 
makes Nuts fiercely involving.
involved in her line of work. Yet beneath 
this jaded exterior is a woman deeply hurt, 
a woman the audience can care about.
Talented and award-winning actors 
round out the cast but are almost com­
pletely overshadowed by the leads. Only 
Maureen Stapleton, as Claudia’s mother 
Rose Kirk, even approaches Streisand and 
Dreyfuss. Her eyes say a lot; she is emo­
tionally closest to Claudia. Karl Malden is 
Claudia’s protective father Arthur Kirk. He 
does a fair job, if you ignore the words 
“TRAVELER’S CHECKS” stamped 
across his forehead. James Whitmore and
1

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page D5
Bidwa’s End-of-Semester Record Roundup
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic
Sinead O’Connor
The Lion and The Cobra 
The first solo album from the lead singer of 
Clannad, and a good album it is, too. 
O’Connor has a striking voice and vocal style 
(she drops onto notes sideways sometimes, if 
that makes any sense) that make just about all 
the songs on this album memorable, from 
“Jackie,” a haunting lament over a quietly 
crunchy guitar line that makes the whole thing 
sound as tight as a mainspring, to “Mandinka,” 
the most conventional song on the album. In 
fact, the only song that isn’t worthwhile is 
O’Connor’s George-Michael-ish “I Want 
Your (Hands On Me),” which, while never 
quite as bad as the aforementioned’s fluff, still 
doesn’t measure up to the quality of the rest of 
the work on the album. Overall, an exceptional 
effort. Highly recommended.
The Proclaimers
This Is The Story 
This is the story of two Irish brothers who 
had a vision. Y’see, there was this guy named 
Charlie and his sibling Reid Craig, and they 
had a batch of acoustic instruments that they 
would bang around on, and after a while they 
got to be pretty dam good at banging on their 
stuff, so they tried writing their own songs, at 
which they were a bit less successful, but the 
songs were passable in their own folky way, so 
the brothers persevered, in spite of their inabil­
ity to get a major record deal, which was a
slight thorn in their side until a guy named 
Billy Bragg came along and sold a bunch of 
records and amazed a lot of people all by his 
lonesome and wowed a batch of major labels 
enough so that the ones who didn’t get the B. 
Bragg contract went looking for some other 
groups that were about the same in order to do 
some clone-type promoting and stuff, and as a
ecord Reviews
result, the two Reid boys, who incidentally 
look like two of the straightest of straight 
straights in their promo pictures, were blessed 
with a Record Contract, and they put their 
fairly good original songs and one unoriginal 
song that was done to much more acclaim 
although not to much more success by Paul 
Young a couple of years ago onto a couple 
thousand slabs of vinyl and immediately be­
came huge pop idols (well, not quite, but the 
promo guys are trying).
Moral of the story: These guys play some 
pretty cool folk-type-twang-guitar-acoustic- 
pop, but what the hell are they doing on 
Chrysalis?
Agnostic Front
Liberty and Justice...
Full bore hardcore that chums along just 
wonderfully, although the guitar solos are 
pretty limp. It’s New York style hardcore, 
whatever that means. (I think it means the bass
c WET0ITN >2EU 9W1’
By MANNY THEINER
Special to Diversions
When you take a break from the constant 
tribulations of academic life this coming 
weekend, take along a bag or two of WRCT 
mega-hitters to calm your frayed nerves and 
stimulate your previously nonexistent social 
life. Don’t forget to ask us any questions you 
might have; scientific tests have proven time 
and time again that it is psychologically bene­
ficial to flee the restrictive confines of reality 
and purchase these releases:
> Fish and Roses Fish and Roses (Lost) The 
self titled debut album of this creative East 
Village avant-combo combines different 
musical origins within the context of a rock 
setup with added horns and violin. The songs 
range from psychofusion to funk poetry to 
wacky tunes of a Renaldo and the Loaf nature. 
“Booth” could pass for an odd-timed Jane Si- 
berry cover. Overall, Fish and Roses possesses 
I more sheer artsy-ness than any one cranium 
could handle, yet it has an appeal for a wide 
variety of listener preferences. Highest posi­
tion on WRCT Top 55: #3.
Minimal Compact The Figure One Cuts 
(Crammed, Belgium) Cut to Brussels. Five 
transplanted Israelis weave half dreamy, half 
funky picturesque ballads and dance numbers. 
The atmospheric “4AD” element is more 
I prominent on this release than on their previ­
ous five records which exuded a Mideastem 
aura. The biting words of Sarny Bimbach and 
the sweet vocals of Malka Spigel are still there, 
alternating from song to song. Too bad the 
xenophobic Immigration Service had to deny 
these guys visas after they had planned a big 
U.S. tour. Get revenge on the fascists and get
1E22R«yhE0
In last week’s article about Forbes Gallery, the quote: “has no real interest 
in using synthetic materials. They don’t pertain to what I’m saying... we 
think of ourselves as separate from nature” was incorrectly attributed to 
Mia White. The quote was said by Mark Shafer. Also, the time for Forbes 
Gallery Openings is 7:00 pm, not 7:30 pm as was reported in Diversions.
is turned up a bit louder, there’s a decent mix, 
and the music goes cruncha-cruncha-cruncha 
instead of skeedle-skeedle-skeedle, but I don’t 
claim to know these things, so take yer 
chances). Anyhow, it’s a pretty weak album as 
albums go - this shit’s been done better lots o’ 
times, sometimes by this band. You can’t 
understand the lyrics even if you’re looking at 
the sheet due to the singer’s ability to barf out 
words that sound nothing like what you think 
he should be singing at the present time, which 
usually isn’t what he’s singing anyway due to 
a weird sense of lyrical pacing that belongs in 
Dyslexics Anonymous instead of here. Even a 
large dose of former members of the former 
local band Circus of Death (Alan Peter on bass 
and Will Shepler on drums) can’t help this. 
Comes off as a parody of itself rather than a 
real album, and is pretty pitiful as a result. 
Shun it.
Defenestration
Dali Does Windows 
Remember how Doctors’ Mob didn’t have 
it? Well, these guys have got even less of it. 
The general outside mob opinion is waffling 
between drab and boring, but let’s just say that 
it’s been done. Lots of times. With more suc­
cess. Or less, but there’s only so much that can 
be done with fairly clean guitars and sorta fast 
beats and THE SAME GODDAMN STYLE 
AS ABOUT FIVE MILLION OTHER 
BANDS THAT ARE JUST AS BORING AS 
THIS ONE! Ack, ack ack. Skip it by a long 
mile. (By the way, the band’s name means ‘the 
act of throwing a person or object out a win­
dow,’ but that’s just what they say, so take it 
for what it’s worth.)
Screaming Blue Messiahs
Bikini Red
The latest from the Messiahs shows that their 
kind of punkabilly guitar rock has settled into 
a fairly stable form. Unlike their last album, 
“Bikini Red” has a fairly consistent sound, 
rock with a countryish beat to it. It’s an okay 
album, with decent songs (ignore that damn “I 
Wanna Be a Flintstone” song; it isn’t the best 
on the album or even close), but it’s too pre­
dictable and as a result is unlikely to inspire 
any new flock of rabid fans to gravitate to­
wards the group, like the last album did. Given 
the quality of their last album, I was really 
looking forward to this album, but now I’m 
somewhat disappointed in the group.
this import record. Top 55: #12.
Microscopic Septet Off Beat Glory (Osmo­
sis, Netherlands) Cool Manhattan cats honk 
away in a continually grooving manner. Some 
blues and bop are added, along with the weird­
ness of “March of the Video Reptiles.” Sud­
denly the record materializes on your turn­
table, a complementary soundtrack to the 
smoky jazz club of your mind. The hot sax 
solos even make the food go down easier. Top 
55: #10.
Negati viand Escape From Noise (SST) The 
premier California label is to be commended 
for releasing the fourth album by a group of 
way-gone experimentalists displaying that 
hallucinogen-induced California sense of 
humor. There’s excellent tape collage work 
which creates rock and disco tunes analyti­
cally fabricated for maximum multi-market 
radio breakthrough, including a dance track 
for the eighties, “Christianity Is Stupid”. 
Taunts at pop music and the generally 
screwed-up framework of modem society 
make Escape From Noise the break-thru 
comedy smash of the decade; no, the century. 
Top 55: #9.
Varoshi Fame Tear Down the Mill (After­
birth) Why pass up a good thing? Varoshi 
Fame, who will be performing at the Squirrel 
Hill American Legion on November 29, know 
how to strafe your brain with savage metal 
pounding and commando-style vocals that 
will change your politics and your life. Follow 
the martial beat of “Voice of Command”, and 
the impulse for constructive change becomes 
impossible to resist Tear down your inhibi­
tions; dance and think. This is the most fre­
quently played tape on WRCT. Top 55: #27.
Set the stage for your career in entertainment!For the 1988 season, Opryland will cast more than 400 talented performers, instrumentalists, stage managers, and stage crew members in a dozen lavish productions featuring every kind of Amencan music We want talent that sparldes with showmanship and professionalism.You'll work with top professionals and polish your performing skills before an audience of over 2 million in one of the nations music capitals...NashviHe..."Music City, USA!" You'll get good pay. And best of all, the opportunity to step into the limelight like numerous other Opryland veterans including members of "Restless Heart,'' Mary Elizabeth Mastrantomo, Cynthia Rhodes, and "The GiHs Next Door.''No appointment is necessary A piano accompanist, record and cassette players will be provided at auditions.For more information on any of our 23 city auditions, contact Opryland Entertainment Department, 2802 Opryland Drive, Nashville, TN 37214. (615) 871 -6656,10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (CST) Monday through Friday.
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAThursday, December 3,1987,1:30-5:30 p.m., Point Park College, 201 Wood St., Lawrence Hall, Studio 4.

---------------------------------------------------

He was just this guy in my class with cool- looking hair. I never thought we had any­thing in common— until we ran into each other at Great Expecta­tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest couple, Class of ’87
GftCflT
CNfCCTHTMnSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
’sR
,Cua?dCW MCWo
’sR
MWC1auafd 1t’Ltu’KcK1t’
E0An u.r!wwE0An $e:!wwE0!P $S!ww
€ 1EUNARyR Qhys Q2hyyR01EUNARyR Qhys gsOUNEE1Ty E0AnpTO2O0yRRO0I GAEQ gynAR
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
rotu’ BcFC 1ftMfd 
~SÄVE~$2.Ö0~
on aPRECISION HAIRCUT
APPl JIN t \
Nf CtSbAR>
Complete with shampoo & styling
fqqR2 CÄNh2Rg 
dEbRUGR2 :w^
(SfttCATEHfCCTATOIIS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
JS/K:rww
“The Best Place 
In Town For A 
Wing Out!”
fbR2 O ,EvR0 uOT«Rg >2EU ohAIKohAI yE ,ROys uOT«R!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10 
F-S till 11 
Open Sundays - till 8
PALI ¦
421-WING
Our Ribs?
YRgy h0 ysR 1hyn
—Mariani’s Coast to-Coast Dining Guide
RIB HOUSE (SQ. HILL)
Ribs • Chicken • Barbecue Specialties^?
GORBACHEV isCOMING TO WASHINGTON -
ARE YOU?
“1
SEND TO: B’NAI B'RITH HILLEL 
160 N. CRAIG ST. 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
NAME _______________________
CAMPUS MAILING ADDRESS
PHONE: H___
UNIVERSITY
W
ENCLOSED IS MY CHECK FOR $
I WOULD LIKE HILLEL TO 
UNDERWRITE MY TRANSPORTATION
SFfgmSF8 oCrrgf oCSyF2 
yltd 6- 1987 
94ll omeglf 1lA42
A HISTORIC MASS MOBILIZATION 
IN SUPPORT OF FREEDOM FOR SOVIET JEWS
TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED 
$8.00-ROUND TRIP 
SUBSIDY AVAILABLE THROUGH B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL
WE'LL LEAVE AT 7:00 AM 
RETURNING APPROXIMATELY - 9:30 PM
YOU'LL BE NOTIFIED AS TO THE 
EXACT LOCATION OF BOARDING AREA
BRING A BAG LUNCH AND EXTRA MONEY FOR ON-THE-ROAD DINNER.
100,000 - 200,000 PEOPLE ARE EXPECTED IN WASHINGTON 
OUR GOAL - 250 FROM THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES
il/Me «WI> >rybw>wc «WI> W iuss>v>/y>cc
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL AMY or RABBI JOE 
at 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Y•ffo 1ftd’4 By BerkeBreathed Funded by S.D.C.
0055/ mwm ail aOUR 5BN5f(ilONf\L 
UW«y ,y«’x/Hsmiesfmrm I 
\/[Jp Herew&xu/tLaim aim amit ?'
OH MY.
pi*, p*l^ i
AGAINT WONPERIFOUR 
\ JOURNALISTICI excesses cause? 
-SA1,/, any pamage r...
I'M AFRAIP 
THERE 
NeveR REALLY
éJ, \>^
PERSONAL M\
ftiP A STMhOCK AMD I
éJ*pt—^ll^ Ma^,, 
* ,^>,pir^ ,*>a,
MAN... FORTYtSH... 
A7TRACT1 ve . 
ENJOYS LONG 
WALKS ON THE /
PEACH ANP NEIL kSePAKA ^ RECORPS:ir^\ /
1AM SORRY PUT 
WHILE NOT NORMALLY 
A PERSON PRONE
TO PRVPERY, 1
itmtM c 1hAOQ PT c
AH'FINALLY/ 
A LONELY 
CUSTOMER / 
WELCOME/
WAFFLE 
PESPERATELY IRON. 
SEEKING..I 
WHAT?
’ THIS 
IS NT 
THE WANT 
,—^.APS 7
YeS... PLEASE... 
IV UKE TO 
MAY 1-UH, PLACE AN AP.. 
HELP YOU. \ ¦SIR?
NO.
RIP OFF HIS 
NO SB ANP 
FEeP IT TO 
TVRTLSS"
n,^>,*p*r^’ ,*>s^/^
ANTI-UNIONIST... 
THIRTYISH-. HANPSOME 
PRONeW
VIOLENCE..:A5*/;
'...seeks -me
INPIVIPUAL WHO 
THREW EGGS AT HIM 
PORING THE STRIKE. 
WOULP LIKE TO.. 
UH.~*
\TREAT HIM 
TO A 
CONCILIATORY 
LUNCH AT 
PENNY S"'7
T^-m
fl TKXJbHT jltiOlh 
¦TP 5<N6~ vVjT/!
WHATSA MATTER ? 
SOMEPOPY ELSE IN THE 
CLOSET f WHY... IT'S 
TAMMY FAYE " /-
WHATS GOING ON, TAMMY f *
SAY- ANXIETIES... 
WHAT'RE YALL 
POING OVER THERE 
C0WERIN6 IN THE 
I CORNER T .
[50/ TAMMY PARKER IS 
IN MY ANXIETY CL05ET 
ANP EVERYONE'S 
HAVING A COwl^ 
APOUT TT, /r\\l
WELL, ITS A CHEAP SHOT.' 
JIM ANP TAMMY HAVE HAP 
A ROUGH TIME In 
THEY PESERVEI \ %
MORE I \ / 
RESPECT L : >V7
THAN THIS/ L.. /vONVOV'C h*'
LOOK WHAT 
YOU'VE PONE. 
TAMMY’S 
STARTING 
TO CRYL
mm
I'M GOING TO FILE THIS 
UNPER PEP-WETTING ' 
ANP FORGET THAT MY 
30YISA AC»'*
Is. LOON''
irs ONLY ME, 
YOUR OFFSPRING 'S 
MOST PROMINENT 
ANXIETY...
WE THOUGHT YOU SHOULP 
KNOW THAT TAMMY PARKER 
IS IN PINKLEY'S CLOSET 
CRYING ANP WE’RE 
HAVING SOME A 
FLOORING /Vf-f 
PROPLEMS. / >V W 
THANK YOU. I \ ]

---------------------------------------------------

fbR2AEOI
THESE AUL-MGH1EKS 
JUST KILL MY 
APPeTiTG r /-
* H£uo,
tiuedpag4v
COPlPiJTfifi
Raan' Hi-tsch.-A Wh£X£ Y°<*t C4MGo THiVo*l.Z> 70 &*r S *©«- Oooa A
fl I9q«^IEß006
a0HgNEygYn ZT2y usOQ
ZTg2uy9h
Uh, '^l*Mter. ( 
LPYd
To life. 
j£ I M*gW- ^
*Co-lDg6 being a « 
Kq2Uqn movie 8¦
By Danny Fahs
,..TH6 hAAKl U>IT« THe Mose MAS^V/AJtfybo, 6ooFgP 616 riM&y BcASTtne BBBATH!AH&Ml “THe HeAD OF THe DOCK 
COfsJTAlNS A VceV 
wa A Tf?eAsOfeeOF i~oRTy BARS 
OF SOU ID 60UP SoAR.B..a.R
eorTHATtAeAMS.
fc)HlUß LOCKeP 
irt 4 ceu., 
OCR HeR06 
HAV6
PISCON/eREp
A TA^UT peSCRWtiG 
The CASTING OF THe <SoU> Duoc /¿cw
—A CASTlbJO 
THAT cccu&t> Engelhea this
ve*y bathos rue VBMfuii
Il't* MOT 3TMROÜ6MpAlihiresddntEtvo
ifI > ^¡7wygb O-cij ljcö*s/y! ^
rv,?>^CoM^ ALoKiGrSf
.A this /JpGpJ*— i o
£W-KX
AcmAuy/THis 
GÜASAN excuse roOSe 5oM^ 
OF -THe 7®4A£
/e* üeneßkwe Seeia HOARPtNtt/
HAH601, OF-THe 73*7!«/ TOR, "To WISH ^HQK<7/^T^ FALL- 5eMCSi bR • 7
II s/KAppy^^
e ’sE2Hgphdhh0
7VBÜ!
rgeb.H ¦UMteRe'SMV
9h0yR2 uEAgyh«R
’QRAqys ohpsy!

---------------------------------------------------

By Bob Jenkins
WHAT- VOU M SAM
WO've LDST'fOUZ ’cR2« slv bv2?
0
.W\>
By Jim Vorhees
9C•• a FoBc’ cWC 
YOU LOOKIM' AT?
YOU b 5F PlS5EE>
TOO IF SOMEO'—L —
m.
W/,
| ONE Ai>KEt> VOOR C 
HUMMJ WHERE HE" 
GOT HIS POUND 
PUPPY. ® i* @ 
STUPID PEOPl
'I’ % 
>
- Q|
(f^ J- welcome, ¦h'fkjt ^Arfb
ffa.
[Nof uniifce AH-'ytur
hcadeMu fo/arek banquet 
duda.
¡tf fck.... 
g a dead, 
ouie 6W like'7.
tre.tKM,Tu<fy failav\d\ 
«by UJe ent m 
v<^\. Not'foo
{jaalJ. baai) iitfinq
¦b $at Libaia ca, sant back. Atfoi U>*»e (3r^ene wantad , 
^ Se/I me Some mstfran#. 
So,,., -M w** »n- Mois 
^idoisinq'Coka'1 now?
NBPT L>TgpoIZ g> hgAkhÄ
Rsw/i'“ ^Q.Ult! fc/kte g
CtfiTUpt" fll£ l,+^1
\NK \o*S-—¦¡Ihours Iocfer [But
\r» the. Bed[am Dutldi^
jMt A Eueri{Hurq Se.e«*> Cool.
\Wl PAkU
By Doug Lamperskl
the r
j Hem if is^ fte famed 
ptfh kck Z0"£, ^htre
fctMiUlwIneney^ite
yeAh,^.
\\bctnxy «ama¦C
¡J aM I cWWe, ^
'mft ^jfcob -
qndinfhe Andl tacl^r* w ... . 1 r- . i I i->¦ ~ .. • i DDT i reasrsuETxpli ..j nnov »««.*.«*» '"e
frecUvY^od H^buflS fiaj^r... W^ich is tve weaisd /SDu> Sha -hLf-ytrtvn 'X a l-f-aUerr ¦* rgfe*
k 1 Ji foverrj
A^orer^, to hect^^0^ 
NSDE!Th ear 
tENnA
<r~-ST
Hcv’f) +Kl5fccW,
________________________i^y^uiw
AS?
l/Q70l
V°Q Ud^uifio^effclvNXirt obim+o wvt
ftbtWy+oopt, 
k Wl%|
m
Hoi iolaws
I

---------------------------------------------------

IMtefefeè© S IPX's
7W£ PLrmtPSK(JLL'5 rouA 
3VPS WH£P£ IT 3eGm...
^ mJSKKI
f MATCH rfl rie MusrHAve J 7 
mtCK UP WlS SL££\€.'l «r H&l i
J /ssMp ewe! j/
ud—e*Hip mr^p. 
Ä ENOV&i WFt)
[CDs/m Wir// usy
^ 1TMOT we LOST \ 
HJU SACK *T rue STfitRXy
\ t)
Ì2gssbk
By Craig Schlechter
L, RIOHr..ì 00 *** up miSL£G/£...
kWvi eu«>w Yn ’EU oTghOA
HcV ?OE
UJH o VÖU
TAUK-1^6- ^ i/^> lHcß.6'
HV 12 A'TS
'7
'?A
/V J Vi/ VJJv W'
¦sy^ lPhlsm
i vwHu n,cE-
MUupd «ee THi^ THAT.5
/> —*pp—w up&J>s^x
FEATURS.Pa 
j/vueD To Ml^ 
AND THc/
k / v A Meo- c \A/ H0tc 
ffL6 AlUN
W0^lO
Tgae1 O20T
collegiate crossword
123
2
Hp67891:11121314 ¦
15
1
r17
19
¦
•!¦22
23
_
¦
mTT
OO
CVJ
¦
29
I
_
¦31
¦
32
¦34
¦5;3839
¦
40
C\J
¦i3
:
45
_
¦
46
_
1-50
1
r56
58
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8709
ACROSS 46471 Disarrange, as hair 5 Given to over- 48simplification 4915 Arrow poison 5016 Creating enmity 5517 Mardi --- 5618 Asian rats 5719 "--- Skelter" 5821 Call's partner22 Steal 5923 Exist24 Harmful snakes28 "Fiddler on theRoof" matchmaker 129 Overhead railroads30 Equine sound 231 Racing-type wheels 332 State abbreviation33 Quartz variety 434 Table scrap 535 At an impasse 637 Tend the garden 738 Word employments40 Toward the stern 841 Kind42 Brown pigment 94 3-----fi44 Respond to 1045 First garden 1>
Part of NCAA (abbr.) Distribute, as cards (2 wds.)Jesus inscription Armed sea mollusks Those present Opera solo Ben Hur, e.g.NoticedOne way to determine 50-Across (2 wds.) Ending for gliss
DOWN
Former cartoon show <2 wds.)Impromptu Packaging need (2 wds.)Six-line stanzas Fencing sword Ending for pay They have flippers (2 wds.)Jewish elementary school^Sure jf being won (2 <ds.)"--- the Knife"Siouan
12 Brazil resort13 Banking abbrevi­ation14 Metric measures (abbr.)20 First lady24 Opposite of ques.25 1961 "Best Actress" (2 wds.)26 Busy27 Hurdy-gurdy (2 wds.)29 TV Tarzan, Ron ---30 --- Sack32 "--- a boy!"33 --- set35 Cousteau's domain36 "--- Were a RichMan..."39 Card game 41 As --- pin43 Prefix for sphere44 --- room46 Go on --- (ramble)47 Activists48 "What's --- forUR?j50 Part of CPA (abbr.)51 However, for short52 Upsilon's neighbor53 Sea eagle54 Curved letter
Ufozt art tòt anstatt* to 
last tottk’s
pujjJt*
sCiBAN.Snnnnn
cLV_ER.ETnin h n
IiNGF,0RraNnnR
AcTEDN0?ooo
PHASES?S?Anhqfmf
EEGREEL0?non
RESI-iE?HB
STAMALAMuDD00
PHL0GISTON
R0ILSINC3MIB
IRMAM0AHELENA
NEEJMAMTHS
KINGAR0Ä1MTRAK
TUT:TRIrE
EHs
__
A_YRS_R_0CEFE
§®&axs>8 ITmms.ÄR;öyy >gqqöup?
IFoagglh, amü o2! (Bmarü Hfy HAU >
GOOD ***•!«! I'D D*€ TWO UhT lN £GGS, Shadayttt AND SWln yuGrum
•jf A weg ichmsvitlUAC

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
8 ?2OyThyETg ?OUR usEQ BEgy >T h0 vhOO0OZ «PO
A lot of people ask me, they say, “Joe Bob, 
what’s a typical day in your life like? I 
mean, what do you DO all day?” Course, 
everyone wants to know this about me, Lee 
Iacocca, Donald Trump, and T. Boone 
Pickens. I guess you could call us risk- 
takers, can-do people. I guess, when you
C sum it all up, you could call us “four guys.”
Anyhow, I thought I’d give you an idea of 
a typical Joe Bob Briggs business day (er- 
cerpted from my upcoming book “Briggs on 
Briggs: The Search for Briggs”).
6 am. Whoever’s in bed with me wakes up 
screaming.
7 am. I remember there’s somebody in bed 
with me, and I wake up screaming.
i 8 am. After my morning hosedown, I’m 
ready to start the day.
9 am. My first business call is to “Jocko” 
Vernon, a business man in West Palm 
Beach, Fla. I’ve been working a deal with 
Jocko for months to purchase a USFL 
football team, the Dothan, Ala., Metro­
nomes. Jocko says we’ll probably close it all 
out by Christmas.
„ 10 am. I take a call from Sid Schoenbaum
on the floor of the New York Stock Ex­
change. I chuckle. “Sid, you’re a crazy man. 
Get up off the floor.” I love Sid.
11 am. Dan Rather calls, asking if I need 
any free tickets to the road show of “A 
Chorus Line.” It’s a nice gesture from a 
really warm close personal friend, but I tell 
Dan I don’t do things that way and also he’s
ft a loser.
12 noon. I call Cherry Dilday, my personal 
assistant, and ask her to bring me a 
scrambled-egg burn to from Taco Bueno. 
This is because important people like me 
think lunch is a waste of time. In fact, I think 
FOOD is a waste of time. I call Cherry 
Dilday back and change my order to a 
Budweiser.
1:30 pm. The lawyers from the Beverly 
Hills Hotel show up to take my despositions. 
I hate despositions, but when you have a life 
as busy as mine, you have to sue people for 
no reason or else everybody will forget you 
exist. I’m currently suing the Beverly Hills 
Hotel for refusing to give me a room 
because “we have no vacancies” even 
though I slipped the desk clerk a couple 
quarters.
2 pm. Sid Schoenbaum calls back from the 
floor of the stock exchange to say there’s a 
wild rumor that I’m attempting to take overj J oe Bob Goes 
: to the Drive-In
Mattel Toys. This is the kind of thing 
happens when you’re famous. Actually, all 
I’m trying to do is acquire control of G.I.
Joe and blow his head off.
3:30 pm. It’s The Coast calling. They want 
me to do a New Year’s Eve benefit for 
Calvin Klein’s new perfume line, Eau de 
Cleveland. I tell them I can’t consider it 
now, because I don’t like getting calls from 
beaches in the middle of the afternoon.
6 pm. Yuri Dubinin, the Soviet ambassador 
to the U.S., stops by for a little vodka toddy. 
Yuri and I discuss the drive-in situation in 
Communist Russia, and my plans to eventu­
ally build the first Rusiian drive-in outside 
Vladivostok. Yuri says, “We will consider. 
Bo Derek, yes?” I make a call and confirm a 
Bo Derek title for opening night
“Nice hootniks,” says Yuri.
8 pm. Time for a few drinks before bed. I 
order a case of Falstaff but nod off to sleep 
before I’ve finished the 12th can. After all, I 
have to be up early in the morning to do that 
space-alien miniseries deal starring Valerie 
Bertinelli as a lost planet drifting in space.
Lorimar will want to know if I’ve done the 
rewrites on the Uranus panty-raid scene. But 
that’s tomorrow’s work. All I can think 
about tonight is hookers dressed up like 
farm animals. That’s the kind of guy I am.
Speaking of superstars, Arnold the Barbar­
ian has done it AGAIN. What is this, the 
fourth straight year he’s gonna be up for 
Best Actor in the Hubbies? This time it’s 
called “The Running Man,” and it’s the 
ultimate nightmare—the idea that Richard 
Dawson and the entire studio audience of 
“Family Feud” could CONTROL YOUR 
LIFE. Arnold plays a cop in the year 2017 
who gets sent to prison for refusing to kill 
80 or 90 innocent women and children, but 
then he breaks out and gets captured and 
gets one chance for freedom. He has to go 
on the world’s most popular game show, 
hosted by Richard Dawson, where convicts 
are shot through these Super Wild Mouse 
missile tubes into a war zone that looks like 
the South Bronx, and then professional 
rasslers are sent out there to hunt em down, 
kill em, hack em into little pieces, and win 
Lee Press-On Nails for members of the
studio audience while the “Solid Gold” 
dancers stretch their Danskins for the 
camera.
It’s great No breasts (shameful, since 
Maria Conchita Alonso is in this one). 
Twenty-six dead bodies. One prison break. 
Exploding head. Exploding game show host 
Barbed-wire neck rippin. Chain saw torso 
slicin. Steel-spike impalements. Arnold Fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nominations for 
Arnold the Barbarian, for wearin the world’s 
worst Hawaiian shirt and saying “I’m not 
into politics; I’m into survival;” Jim Brown, 
as Fireball, the killer with a napalm gun; 
Professor Sub Zero, as a hockey-stick 
Sumo-rasslan jelly-belly killer; Gus Reth- 
wisch, as a motorcycle-drivin chain saw 
killer, for saying, “I love the saw, the saw’s 
part of me, and I’m gonna make it part of 
you;” Erland Van Lidth, as Dynamo the 
opera-singin half-Patton-tank killer dressed 
up like a Christmas tree; Richard Dawson, 
for saying, “You want ratings? I can get 10 
points for his biceps alone;” and Paul 
Michael Glaser, the finest “Starsky & 
Hutch” actor directing movies today.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
Arnold keeps up the good work in Running Man
Until Eliot Ness 
and a small force of men 
swore they’d bring 
him down.
UNTOUCHABLES
AL CAPONE. 
He ruled Chicago 
with absolute power. 
No one could touch him. 
No one could stop him.
Sunday December 6th 
6,8,10,12
DH 27,10 $1.00 with CMU ID
The Oakland Review
Carnegie Mellon's Literary Arts Magazine
sRAN QO0yRI
interested?
Wednesday, december 2 
skibo 13 
8:00 p.m.
or
contact georgia lydia sine 
521-6412
funded by your student activities feeJL. .I..., ... ¦ i &ootoKao tttttttt

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—November 24,1987
Diversions...
where Entertainment is a way of life
“TCBVT can make your Winter Warmer™ with one of our many great tasting hot treats, ; all made with our distinctive ^ frozen yogurt, which is 96% fat-free with almost half the * calories of premium ice cream.
~TCBW Winter Warmers® — 
specialty treats featuring our delicious, hot toppings—fudge, 
caramel, cherry and apple
3805 Forbes A 
Oakland 
(next to the 
King's Court Theater)
nuBuui TREATS YOU LIKE '’1YFPj
rw£f>>29ad’CAP cd4 '’1YF!5 9ad’CW 9cWoCWK!
Please proem coupon beiore ordering. Out order per coupon per customer 44““ — — — — —| per visit Customer must pay any sales tax due Not good in combination I with any other often. Offer good only at participating TCBY stores Cash
I i ^ °‘i2/H87 rhe Country\ Best htgurl*TCBV
! 4 I
1 . . I 10% Off Any Purchase atNational Health & Nutrition | National Health ¦
1722 Murray Ave. Pgh, PA 15217 521-9835 j with CouPon
j coupon expires 1 /31 /88
M-W-F 9—7 |___________________________
T-Th 9—9Sat 9__6 We carry a complete line of whole foods, bulk,
Sun 12—5 national brand vitamins, and natural cosmetics.
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE I960
Where you'll always find the latest 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy 'Z, 
Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811
om pns dn—m k¡gC 
owscmC onCdmCI
Dames at Sea Succeeds By Not Taking Itself Too Seriously
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Stqffwriter
Dames at Sea, a spoof of 30's musicals such 
as 42nd Street and Footlight Parade, opened 
at the Public Theatre on November 18 and will 
continue its run until December 20. The musi­
cal is a delightful escape and despite some of 
its flaws, it succeeds by not taking itself too 
seriously.
The story line of Dames at Sea follows the 
saga of Ruby, an innocent, naive young girl 
from Centerville, Utah, who aspires to be a 
dancer on Broadway. Ruby arrives in New 
York with nothing but a pair of tap shoes and 
a trusting heart and wanders into a theatre 
where rehearsal for Dames at Sea is taking 
place as the actors prepare for opening night. 
She immediately befriends the sarcastic and 
wise-cracking Joan, a character whose hard 
exterior conceals her heart of gold. Joan, a cho­
rus girl, secures Ruby a position on the chorus 
line of Dames at Sea which stars the famous 
and overbearing actress, Mona Kent.
After winning the part. Ruby is overcome by 
the exhaustion of her journey and by the fact 
that she hasn’t eaten in three days. As she is 
about to faint from hunger, she is saved by 
Dick, a sailor who, by coincidence, is also 
from Centerville and whose best friend hap­
pens to be Joan’s ex-boyfriend. There are 
numerous plot twists and intricacies involved 
in the relationships of these characters and the 
character of Hennessey, the harried director of 
the play, and the Captain, Mona Kent’s former 
lover.
The conflict in the musical arises from two 
main problems. The first problem is that the 
beloved theatre where the musical production 
Dames at Sea is supposed to open is being tom 
down and made into a roller skating rink by the 
W.P.A. If the play is going to open that eve­
ning on schedule, they must either raise 
$25,000 to purchase the theatre or find another 
place to perform. The second conflict involves 
the relationship between Dick, Ruby, and 
Mona. Dick turns out to be not only a sailor but 
also a songwriter of remarkable talent, and 
Mona longs to steal him from the clutches of 
Ruby. Ruby is despondent and lacks the con­
fidence to compete with the famous and beau­
tiful Mona Kent and decides to let her true love 
slip away. The refreshingly happy conclusion
of Dames at Sea answers the questions of 
where the play will take place and whether or 
not Dick and Ruby will be together.
Generally, the actors were successful in 
portraying their one-dimensional characters. 
However, Karyn Quackenbush’s portrayal of 
Ruby made her seem like a simpering idiot and 
it was difficult to identify with Ruby or under­
stand her successes. Quackenbush makes 
Ruby’s naivety seem more like apathy, mak­
ing her character more annoying than deserv­
ing of sympathy. In addition to the problems 
with her characterization of Ruby, Quack­
enbush also had difficulty in singing, particu­
larly in the lower registers.
Although her voice was indicative of the 30’s 
era in its tinniness and vulnerability, at times 
Quackenbush was inaudible or out of tune. In 
her tap numbers, Quackenbush was adequate 
but certainly not stunning enough to qualify 
Ruby as a dancer with talent and the finale of 
the show, “Star Tar,” would have been more 
impressive with a dancer of greater talent.
Karen Prunczik fared much better in her 
characterization of Joan. Joan’s aggressive­
ness and abrasiveness were brought across by 
Prunczik and her tap dancing was fantastic, 
particularly in “Choo-Choo Honeymoon.” 
Prunzcik’s voice was the best among the 
female stars of the play as she adopted the style 
of 30’s singing but still projected her voice to 
the audience.
Ron Bohmer, as Ruby’s boyfriend Dick, was 
charming and talented as was Jeff Calhoun in 
his characterization of Lucky. Calhoun’s por­
trayal of Lucky was particularly effective 
because he was the only actor in the play who 
seemed to stay in character even when he was 
not speaking his lines. Calhoun’s facial ex­
pressions and clumsy mannerisms as Lucky 
made him the humorous highlight of the show.
The best actress in Dames at Sea was 
Dorothy Stanley, a CMU alumnus, as Mona 
Kent. Stanley played the pompous leading 
lady to the egoistic and materialistic extremes 
and her acting made up for what she lacked in 
the areas of voice and dance. Allan Stevens 
was also enormously successful in his por­
trayal of Hennessey, the harried director and 
also in doubling over as Mona Hart’s love 
interest, the Captain. Stevens’ immersion into 
both of these roles was so complete that it was
Aboard the Gateway Clipper Majestic are Ron Bohmer and Karyn Quakenbush
almost impossible to detect that the actor who 
had played Hennessey in the first act was 
playing the Captain in the second act.
Dames at Sea surmounted the problems in 
performances and other obstacles. Faced with 
an uninspiring opening number with Mona 
Kent’s singing and dancing to “Wall Street” 
and a boring musical number, “Let’s Have a 
Simple Wedding” for the close, director Neal 
Kenyon saved the show with superior lighting 
and special effects. Surmounting the difficul­
ties imposed by the Public Theatre’s 22 feet 
wide and 8 feet deep stage, Kenyon and de­
signer, Peter Harvey, recreated the time era of 
the 30’s with garish effects and inventive 
scenery. The costumes for the musical added 
to the effect and the numerous changes in 
scenery and costume proceeded smoothly 
throughout the show.
The musical numbers for the show were 
perfect in establishing the mood of the era. 
Wendy Bobbitt, as pianist, and Michael Leon 
Solomon, as percussionist, were so spectacu 
lar in their performances that it almost seemed 
like the show had a whole orchestra rather than 
a piano and some percussion instruments.
Dames at Sea is obviously an endeavor 
benefitted by the enthusiasm of its participants 
and it is the perfect show for the holiday 
season. No matter what problems exist in the 
play, the characters are still heartwarming in 
their earnestness and the play will leave all bu' 
the most skeptical in a cheerful good mood. 
Dames at Sea embraces the 42nd Street era in 
theatre and in film rather than disdaining or 
satirizing it, and overall, it succeeds in its 
wholehearted attempts.

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page D13
Fight Over Digital Àudio Tape Continues
LOS ANGELES, CA: At a press conference 
today, spokespersons representing more than 
two hundred recording industry members an­
nounced the formation of new industry coali­
tions opposing legislation restricting the digi­
tal audio tape recorder (DAT)—the latest in 
audio recording technology.
* According to spokespersons for “Musicians 
for DAT” and “Independent Record labels for 
DAT,” the coalitions have formed to dispel 
any assertions that recording industry propo­
nents of anti-DAT legislation speak for the 
entire music industry.
Together, the two coalitions are comprised 
of more than two hundred working musicians, 
composers, producers, engineers, studio own­
ers, and independent record labels protesting 
DAT-related legislation being aggressively 
promoted by the large record companies and 
their trade association. At issue are legislative 
proposals before both Houses of Congress 
which would prohibit the availability of the 
DAT for musicians and consumers without an 
anti-taping chip. A similar anti-taping pro­
posal recently was rejected by the California
* tate Legislature.
Bob Everhart, a musician and president of 
the National Traditional Country Music Asso­
ciation, said, “The DAT offers us an innova­
tive professional product that will enhance the 
quality of tape recordings produced by those in 
the acoustic music world that my association 
represents—folk, bluegrass, old-time, hill­
billy, ragtime, and traditional country—in a 
price range they can afford.”
Alec Berstein, musician and composer said, 
“The DAT presents the latest exciting advance 
electronics that over the last decade has led to 
an enormous enhancement of personal and 
professional musical electronic equipment. 
As a musician and composer, the proposed 
restrictions that the recording industry has 
been supporting—supposedly on my behalf— 
would inhibit me from using an important, 
innovative technology in my field.” 
According to Roma Baran, independent 
producer and engineer, “There are some 
people within the industry who have forgotten 
what new machines like personal and car ste­
reos and the compact disc player have done for 
us. The proponents of this legislation say they 
speak for everyone in the music industry, and 
that we are all in favor of restricting the DAT. 
This is not true; there are many members of the 
music community who are eager to have DAT 
in the country, free of any restrictions.”
,B..ew ’Bau 9CCZ
Thursday, December 3
White Christmas 
Irving Berlin wrote many new ‘lilting’ songs for this classic. These songs and the ease 
in which the four main stars interact created this, the biggest box-office grosser of 1954.
The stars are greats in their own right, but having them all together in this one movie is 
just like the cherry on top of a sundae. Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney have recorded 
some great songs together (Brazil, You Came A Long Way From St. Louis). Besides 
anything with The Bingo in it, well heck, its just gotta be great.
Everyone should see at least one of Dany Kaye's movies. This guy is hilarious. Vera- 
Ellen and Kaye join in on the chorus for the rather nimble number, “Choreography.”
Of course, one could go to see this movie just for the wonderful songs. Besides the title 
tune (which we all know), there is “The Best Things Happen When You’re Dancing” and 
“Love, You Didn’t Do Right By Me.”
“White Christmas” has to be on everyone’s list of all-time favorites; if you’ve seen it I 
needn’t say no more, if you haven’t, then by all means do so.
Director Michael Curtiz
Cast: Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye, Rosemary Clooney, Vera-EUen 
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday, December 4
Hoosiers
This film gained two Academy Award nominations: Best musical score and best 
supporting actor (Dennis Hopper). It is a family-type film with a special appeal for those 
who enjoy basketball.
The film is about the basketball team in a small-town Indiana high-school which has been 
consistently losing games. Then the ray of light appears. Gene Hackman plays the new 
coach with new ideas. This coach is an outsider with radical ways that scare the 
townspeople. He stands up to local opposition and brings the team to life, even leading it 
to a crack at the state championship. As if that wasn’t enough, he rehabilitates the town 
drunk (Dennis Hopper), a former high-school basketball star whose son is on the team.
Cast: Gene Hackman, Dennis Hopper.
Showtimes: 68,10,12
Saturday, December 5
Some Kind of Wonderful
Producer and screenwriter of this film John Hughes has a string of box-office hits 
including Pretty in Pink and Ferris Bueller’s Day Off. His thoughtful and intelligent 
insight into the lives of today’s teens has resulted in another wonderfully warm hit. For 
those of you still reading the review, here-goes: Eric Stoltz stars as an eager young man 
tom between the classic confrontation of family and friends and the desire to be one’s own 
person. His life becomes even more complicated when he becomes infatuated with one of 
the most desirable girls at his high school, of course, and unwittingly discovers that true 
love lies elsewhere.
As they say of this movie, ‘It truly is Some Kind of Wonderful.’
Director Howard Deutch
Cast: Eric Stoltz, Mary Stuart Masterson, Lea Thompson 
Showtimes: 6J8,10,12
Sunday, December 6
Director: TBA 
Stars: TBA 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12 
By RONALD G. REDMOND
TBA
According to spokespersons for “Independ­
ent Record Labels for DAT,” the availability 
of the DAT makes good business sense for 
record companies. Members of “Independent 
Record labels for DAT” anticipate that, com­
pared to compact disc technology, the DAT 
technology will permit them to produce and to 
distribute music in a digital format at a lower 
fixed cost for duplication.
Spokespersons for both coalitions said their 
members will be contacting legislators to 
voice their opposition to anti-DAT legislation, 
and will be seeking additional member sup­
port from within the recording industry.
“Musicians for DAT” and “Independent 
Record Labels for DAT” join a growing 
number of organizations supporting the DAT 
technology and advocating the availability of 
the product, without the proposed “spoiler” 
chip, in the consumer and professional mar­
ket-places. DAT-restrictive legislation has 
been opposed by the Home Recording Rights 
Coalition (HRRC), a group of consumers, 
retailers, and manufacturers who support 
home taping for non-commercial purposes. A 
spokesperson for HRRC, Gary Shapiro, Vice 
President of the Consumer Electronics Group 
of the Electronics Industries Association, 
welcomed the addition of the coalitions in the 
effort on behalf of an unrestricted DAT.
Shapiro said, “These new coalitions reflect 
increasing support within the music commu­
nity for the DAT and the exciting new technol­
ogy it represents. They also demonstrate the 
music community’s growing recognition that 
any efforts to restrict home taping are mis­
guided.”
Irish Theatre
«E0yh0TRI q2EU NOpR ,h
Cook brought together 17 of the most 
talented individuals in the Irish colle­
giate theatre to form the charter mem­
bership of his Company. Many of them 
had not worked together before, but all 
have apparently found their company 
identity in this year’s strenuous tour.
The Company maintains extensive 
sponsorship for the tour from a number 
of sources, including funds from the 
major Irish universities, the Irish Gov­
ernment, the University of Dublin Fund 
in New York, Bord Failte (the Irish 
Tourist Board), Aer Lingus, and private 
donations.
Tickets for the IUTC’s performances 
are available from the CFA Box Office, 
open 12 - 5 pm weekdays, or call 268- 
2407. Prices are $8 for general admis­
sion and $5 for subscribers, students, 
faculty, staff, and senior citizens. A 
package of tickets to all four shows is 
$25, $15 for students etc. A word of 
warning - the shows are expected to sell 
out very quickly. Be sure to call the Box 
Office to check availability for the per­
formances of your choice.
Ron Redmond contributed to this ar­
ticle.
IB
BENEDUM
dytWyl
’coC Control them. Subdue them. Then make them luxuriant. ’BfuC Thick-Ends" is the sensational way for getting dry, 
damaged ends to behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
V V ILU shampooing to condition, moisturize and add thickness. Cd,u! And see how civilized your split ends can be.
Save $4 on Haircuts
with mention of ad & student ID
Regular Price $15 - $18 
offer good 
Mon, Tue, Wed 9am - 3pm 
expires Dec. 12
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
FuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFuFu
It’sbeen fun,
Ed.
•RQhgm813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyskto 682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

• lo btyour bet are tmkmarik of Apple Computo. Inc
imim
THIS KOTE IS LEGAL TENDER 
FOR ALL DEBTS. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
ATURS.Pag. e1O2
J 29403511 A
10 <^a£?ie*#rtv Aturt&ns Qsìt&qSERIES
(985
vuiaciuvtllHi
1«VE TVOXK
gh’b«’Za3huf’ahhfAhhh\hCFh^
e F oQT hyh€aq! « ( eV f* ft*
V»//.Kts v ' t ik*
\Si
Buy a printer withyour Macintosh and conserve paper
~r~j A Macintosh"personal computer
¦' Imag^riter" II
_________ _ printer will save
wu hours of time. I^fot to mention gallons of cor­
rection fluid and reams and reams of paper. 
And, if you buy both now, the first ream of
paper you’ll save will have a lovely green glow.
You’ll save a bundle of cash when you pur­
chase an ImageVt’riter n printer along with your 
choice of a Macintosh Plus or a Macintosh SE. 
Either way you’ll be able to turn out beautifully 
written and beautifully printed papers.
And we’ll even try to help you pay for your
purchase with a variety of financing options.
We feel compelled to tell you, though,that 
a deal like this can’t last forever* So it’s a good 
idea to see your campus microcomputer center 
today. And join the conservation movement
The power to be your best™

---------------------------------------------------

November 24,1987—The Tartan—Page D15
Announcements
• Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Friday, December 
4. Students who wish to meet with the presi­
dent should telephone his secretary at 268- 
2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days
9 and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day). 
i George Cruikshank, Caricaturist and Il­
lustrator. Collection of Thomas J. Michalak. 
Exhibit in Fine Book Room, Hunt Library, 4th 
floor. 1:30 - 4:30, through January 15.
A site-specific installation by Larry Cress- 
man, created to use the entire gallery space, 
f Hewlett Gallery, CFA, 1st floor. Through 
December 10. Gallery Hours are: 11 am - 4 
pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Mouton Rothchild Paintings for the Labels.
An exhibition of the artwork by such great 
contemporary artists as Chagall, Klee and 
Braque that was commissioned by the Baron 
Philippe de Rothchild in the years following 
j World War II for the Mouton Rothchild labels 
of his Chateau Mouton. Hunt Institute, 5th 
floor; through December 18.
TishanHsu. Paintings and sculpture. Car­
negie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407 
South Craig St. November 22 through De­
cember 28. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Satur­
day; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
I Swiss Poster Art: 1970 - 86. Selections of 
Swiss posters from Carnegie Mellon 
University’s collection. Carnegie Mellon 
University Art Gallery, 407 South Craig St. 
November 22 through December 28. Gallery 
Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through 
Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Lockwood Hoehl Photography. Associated 
j Artists of Pittsburgh, Fifth and Shady 
Avenues. Exhibit continues through Decem­
ber 23. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
The Allegheny Chapter of the Sierra Club is
selling a variety of Sierra Club Calenders at 
reduced prices on Tuesday, Nov. 24 and Tues­
day, December 1 from 11 am - 2 pm in the
Skibo Lobby. Proceeds go the Regional Sierra 
Club efforts to defend our natural enviom- 
ment.
Three Rivers Arts Festival. Entry forms are 
now available to visual artists interested in 
entering in the 29th annual Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, June 3 - 19, 1988. Visual artists 
working with two dimensional art, sculpture, 
crafts, photography, film, video and in the 
artists’ market are invited to enter. This year 
the entry deadline is February 6, 1988. 
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
Through February 28. 2 pm, Monday through 
Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Thursday and 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Sunday.
Stars of Autumn. Through November 24. 2 
pm, Tuesday.
Star of Bethlehem. Through January 5. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm,
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm,
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
To the Junior Dramats - 
Congratulations on a 
wonderful Rep!
'Sophomore Dramats
“It was a party and we lost.”
Kim -
Sorry for harassing you 
Saturday night. I didn’t know 
what I was doing.
Angel - 
Glad I met ya’! You made the 
semester bearable. Can’t wait 
to see you on Friday.
- Cutie
M.C. Escher is a God.
We decided to throw a party, and 
a jail broke out.
To SQ - 
You’re probably the most 
beautiful woman in the world.
- An Admirer
Jay & Jay -
Aren’t you glad the 212 is over 
one way or another?
Mush -
New Year’s is still on isn’t it?
Princess - 
What country are you in this 
week? Please come home
soon!
I miss you.
- Snugglebear
Chris -
You really dg look like Iggy 
Pop.
Ma grande Loutre de la flueve, 
You’re just a great Love-puppy 
(But we can keep that our 
secret!)
-Ta petite ChauvreSouris 
qui mange des fruits
They took our brothers, they 
took our guests, and then they 
took our bar.
Mark - 
Is Scobell really that bad? 
Well, keep cranking your CD 
player.
Ralph is Cool.
All you people are sick!
Guys -
I’ve had it with roses.
Hey, what’s the problem here 
... wait, wait, wait!
‘There is another world 
There is a better world 
Well, there must be.”
Morrissey
Classifieds
!!¦zK LEGgk9O0yRI
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home­
workers to perform mail services. Incentive pro­
grams available. For information send large self- 
addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 24307 
Magic Mtn. Pkwy,. Suite #306, Valencia, CA 
91355.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
40 jobs still available to all CMU students, both 
work-study and non work-study eligible. Cleri­
cal, Programming, Word Processing. Pick up a 
Job Directory in the Financial Aid Office, Warner 
hall. Job Assistance interviews available. Call 
x2068.
PART TIME—HOME MAILING PRO­
GRAM! Excellent income! Details, send self- 
addressed, stamped envelope. WEST, Box 5877, 
Hillside, NJ 07205.
TYPISTS—Hundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLITICS: Put your 
Politics to work this winter break and earn $500- 
$1000. Work for protection of drinking water/ 
clean up od toxics and gain valuable skils in PR, 
Communications and Management. Ft and Pt 
available. Call Clean Water Action 765-3053. 
Ask for Christine.
BETgh0p
Five Minutes to Campus Two Bedroom Fur­
nished APTM. Nice and clean $380 plus utili­
ties. Parking available for rent. Also from Janu­
ary 1 Furnished rooms, share kitchen and bath­
room. All utilities included from $160 monthly. 
Call 655-1872.
Shadyside Apt. Available Immediately or Next 
Semester through 5/31/88. 2 BR, or 3RMS/ 
Common Kit. 683-7601.
For Lease: Spacious apartment in elegant His­
toric Landmark. $425/month (gas, heat & cook­
ing includede) + elec.. Showings by appoint­
ment . 621-9308.
NEED A CAR? New or used, w/ or w/o accesso­
ries. Call Peggy Eshelman, 578-8444.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata 
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800) 351-0222, Ext.
33. Visa?MC or COD.
SAINT ELMO’S BOOKS & MUSIC
Before going to the nearest mall to buy the same 
book that everyone is giving this holiday sea­
son—try us. we have distinctive alternative read­
ing and listening for special people. Also we have 
New Age holiday music. Just over the Birming­
ham Bridge at 2214 E. Carson St., 10 minutse 
from campus. Open til 9 nightly. 431-9100. Ex­
pect the unusual.
uR2bh«Rg
ohgR
Need a person with excellent English writing
skills to assist researchers who use English as a 
secondary language. Call for details x6591 or 
x6592.
TUTOR NEEDED - Someone proficient in 
Microsoft Word needed to teach me the program. 
Call Tom Kalson at 681-7672 for information.
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart- 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, 
New Year’s, and much more. Over 10,000 
square feet of party. Party favors, decorations, 
and a wide variety of novelties. Close tocampus- 
Morewood Avenue at Baum. 681-8900.
Typing/writing Services—term papers, disserta­
tions, thesis, resumes. Spelling and grammar 
included. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486- 
8577.
’sR ’O2yO0 
QhAA 2RyT20 E0 
LO0TO2n el! ?EEI 
AT«H E0 qh0OAg O0I 
sObR O 0h«R G2ROH!
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
The Pied Piper of Hamelin. Hundreds of 
rats! Thousands of rats! Millions of rats 
invade the town of Hamelin. A mysterious 
stranger promises to lure the rats away - but at 
a price the citizens refuse to pay. 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, Sundays; 
through December 20.
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella­neous item, or even in The Tartan, send it to Campus Calendar / University Relations / Carnegie Mellon / Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus mail to the above address or drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The house between AY and ATQ.Please include the following information when submitting events : Title of event, sponsor, brief description, location, date, and time In addition, include the name and phone number of the person submitting the entry; this information will be used only to confirm the event.Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­day at 5 pm for the next week's issue.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16—The Tartan—November 24,1987
Events
Movies
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, starring 
Humphrey Bogart. Excellent story of greed 
and gold. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
Music
Junior Recital. Michael K. Cenna, trumpet,
performs at 8 pm in the Alumni-Concert Hall, 
CFA. Reception follows.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De­
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Men’s Basketball. Home game against Point 
Park College at 8 pm.
Women’s Basketball. Away game against 
Juniata College at 7 pm.
Movies
The Man Who Would Be King, starring Sean 
Connery and Michael Caine. Excellent adven­
ture film.
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are
Gen -
The only true man on cam­
pus.
Okay. So what! I failed my calc 
test. Shit happens.
Congratulations Mark S.!
We were in jail, with real bars 
and shit!
For Lee who jumped from the 
Bridge -
“The Heart asks Pleasure 
First” by Emily Dickinson 
The heart asks pleasure first, 
And then, these little anodynes 
that deaden suffering;
And then, to go to sleep,
And then if it should be 
the will of its Inquisitor, 
the liberty to die.
Suggestion: Throw a rose, and 
not yourself, off the bridge. 
-Curious George
To the girl who followed me off 
the bus, and into Dollar Bank 
on Saturday:
Where are you?
Cooge-
I had a wonderful time! Ice 
skating soon?
-Spark
Johnny -
Happy Birthday to a Big Man 
from a little girl.
-Abigail
Hey Jell'
WILD THING...
You make my heart sing 
You make everything 
...GROOVY!
-Your kindred spirit
Hey you scruffy Chekhov ians ' 
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA 
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA 
Luv Yins 
'Khan
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De­
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Movies
North By Northwest, starring Cary Grant. 
Great romance-thriller about a man accused of 
being a double agent. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
ton and Maryam d’Abo. New James Bond in 
this adventure-thriller. Pittsburgh Playhouse1 
at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful faipily, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The' 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm, 9:10 pm and 11:15 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Sports
4
Women’s Basketball. Away game against 
Allegheny College at 7 pm.
..... ..............._____ vi.
Movies
Adventures in Babysitting. Wild comedy 
about one night of babysitting that goes crazy. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm, 9:10 pm and 11:15 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Dark Eyes, starring Marcello Mastroianni. 
Romano; a charming fraud whose marriage is 
collapsing from neglect, whose fortune is 
dwindling, who is a compulsive liar and who 
spends a great deal of time, trouble and energy 
chasing an elusive woman to the far ends of the 
earth. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth 
Street, Downtown. For showing time call 681 - 
5449.
Movies
The Glenn Miller Story, starring James Ste­
wart and June Allyson. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30. Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Paul Cadmus: Enfant Terrible at 80. Spon­
sored by GALA. MM 103 at 7:30 pm. 
Admission is free.
Movies
Therese. Beautiful film about Saint Therese 
of Lisieux who joined the Carmelites at age 15, 
died at age 24 and was later canonized. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnol’s novel, set in the mid-1920’s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of land 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Unified Theories of Cognition Lecture.
Professor Allen Newell, Carnegie Mellon, 
speaks on “Intendedly Rational Behavior”, at 
4:30 pm in DH 2210.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
The Living Daylights, starring Timothy Dal- hall.
Movies
Tartan Elections 
Tuesday, December 1 
for details, see page 16

---------------------------------------------------

O
dossier
LITERA TUREi>wuG/
*
U6•••••••••
*
wS

---------------------------------------------------

¿farf nefrefojl it/ho dte'CffiU T
TIwa-fines? i> a pjuyGJ^ Jtfy'if' 7^// C3
7fan/$ krn&h ¿gy sCl ¿WjJ._____________m
RRN01RQDm C! CC•A0aVa1R_/
CNPnnR?hLRR0MQ RCC! F ,NT-R
3J Conn ,RNp «oRBg CCKpN
73 ¿m ad/mrirf /?%!_____________
U •
^¿¿¿ftm
X
apEE0oA
I I T E R A T UR E A DESIGN
Volume 9 Number 2 November 24, 1987
CREDITS
Literary Editor Michele Osherow 
Design Editor Rick Sim tier 
Typesetting Brian Harrison
CONTENTS
SUBMISSIONS
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must be 
typed or on a macintosh disk. Please include your 
name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism 
laws, anonymous literature or literature under 
pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 103 Skibo, or dropped off at 
the Tartan office, Skiho room 50.
Jelly-Filled Girl by Garrett Yankou 
Designed by Kadie Casey\
Mark Twain Quote designed by Jennifer Bell
Laundr-o-mat Walls by Maria Carluccio 
Designed by David Yu
To Hunt is to Kill by Ami Katherine Spicer 
Designed by Mona Kim
Busdriver by Michele Osherow 
Designed by Linda Peters
The Gatme tomorrow by Brett Molotsky 
Designed by Beth Novitsky
It Wasn't Very Deep by James R Williams III 
Designed by S Tribone
Nothing Hurts by Bruce L Stewart 
Designed by Hugo Cheng
Where k was When My Mother Called by Kathleen Summers 
Designed by Rebecca S Neimark
Wisdom by Michael Rose
Designed by James Ochsenreiter
To Be Old by Albrecht T Powell
Designed by Maria Carluccio
#
i

---------------------------------------------------

ÄTpAOT
hD
> V
h*$. ;
f.
Jelly-Filled Girl
Quarts of raspberry jelly erupt from her insides. 
Ip tubes, through her nose and mouth, and out 
onto her shiny face.
“She’ll hollow out any day now.” the experts 
predicted. And they waited.
Now they wipe her clean.
“No use upsetting the others." the fat man says. 
And they look for their next customer, hiding wet 
rags in enormous hands.
?O22Ryy 4O0HET

---------------------------------------------------

A ,>

---------------------------------------------------

Laundr-o-mat Walls
Straight rows of mustard colored machines 
line a room lit by long flourescent bulbs.
I sit silently, but my eyes are uneasy.
They shift from detail to detail,
Searching each clue to a time 
of hula hoops and electric toasters.
The repetition enchants.
Chrome quarter slots set a rhythm; 
machines hum to a methodical song.
These tools align the walls like soldiers,
Their presence firm with purpose.
!\I peak through the hidden rectangle %
of space between garbarge pails.
Just me and him. ^
He looks up from his intent reading.
I challenge his stare and steal an emotion.
I win.
A soft plastic basket tumbles to the floor.
I look in every corner, no one is to blame.
It lies there calling for attention.
The force causes both the silent stranger and me to respond.
I flinch.
He peers over in confusion.
Our eyes meet again; for a split second.
I continue my search within the rust and cracks.
He continues his search within the crisp white pages.
Maria Cariuccio

---------------------------------------------------

Underneath the 20-watts are smokers 
wrapping their lips around some kind of need 
repressed between the sheets. Stained his and hers 
towels with no name for her, if she would bleed.
I came here once and heard god’s gibberish 
tale of salvation. Perhaps Helios 
came too, implored his Sun to soothe his wish­
ful sword. Then his sepulcher became his dust.
Still remains of animal husbandry 
coat the field. But the carnage under 
20-watts stenches more; no god can free 
what's within. Silence heeds for no Thunder.
Odysseus and Ajax look for the dead 
in the sheets, for now who is the hunted?

---------------------------------------------------

Windshield wipers are the metronome 
Behind the synchronized rattle of the 
automatic doors 
And the driver's call:
"Frankfordf:
He wipes the sweat from his brow 
Before it falls to his lids 
And stings his eyes.
There's a person beneath that salt 
But the passengers forget it 
When they push those dated papers 
Up his nose, in his ears 
Down his pants 
From all directions.
They raised the price of transfers to a
The driver doesn't see much 
From his place up front.
He doesn't know the kids are smoking 
Marijuana in the back;
He lost his sense of smell
In a collision with a station wagon
Three years ago.
The mirror by his head
Shows him the occupants of the first
Four rows-a sea of old ladies
With shopping bags
And visible bra straps.
They have to be told when to get off. 
Even then they don't move fast enough 
For the green light;
The driver stares at red and waits.
There's a thin sheet of plastic 
Between the man and his passengers 
That makes all attempts to throw 
Crumpled papers at his head, futile. 
Some of the school kids still try 
To startle the driver.
They yell, fight, laugh 
At the folds of flesh 
That hang from the man's arm 
As he turns the steering wheel.
The driver doesn't react- 
He doesn't command courtesy and respect 
Maybe he knows how essential 
Cruelty is to character.
Maybe he knows it wouldn't do any 
good.
Maybe he knows he doesn't 
Deserve it.

---------------------------------------------------

ifX U was two-thirds through the bottom of the ninth 
before Sinke realized dinner would have to wait. He 
had watched a ground-out to the shortstop, and a 
meek fly ball to left. Since then, though, there had 
been runners circling the bases faster than Sinke 
could keep track, and it hadn’t been long before the 
scorekeeper told him the game was tied.
He looked at his watch: nearly three hours gone 
by already. His throat hurt from shouting balls and 
strikes, and his kness were locking up on him 
between pitches. He squatted less and less with each 
pitch, cheating the call as much as he could. He spat 
on the dirt, then brushed it over with his heel. His 
shoes were covered in dirt, looked grey or brown in 
the orange sun. He had started the game at 5:35, just 
like the announcement in the paper had said, but he 
might still have to call it because of darkness the way 
things were going. Sinke didn't want to do that; he 
hated making those kinds of calls, even when he had 
to.
The catcher turned around to look at Sinke, eyes 
glazed with sweat. “Sinke, gimme a break, huh? I 
know you're tired. You want to go home, have some 
of that Hungry Jack dinner, right?”
Sinke said, “Shut up, Pengo. You know I hate 
extra innings.”
“Right, so just widen it up a little. A little room 
on the comers is all I need.”
A batter walked slowly toward them, knocked 
the dirt from his spikes with his bat. “No can do, 
Pengo,” Sinke said, but Pengo didn’t hear him. He 
was cursing at the pitcher.
The Echo took over the air, announced the next 
batter. The Echo was a nickname, of course, but 
Sinke didn’t know what else to call the announcer; 
they had never met, and everyone else just called him 
the Echo. So Sinke did too. Apparently, the Echo was 
trying to make it into big league announcing. That’s 
why he was always so enthusiastic. Sinke thought it
was silly; you don’t get into the big leagues by just 
being loud. You have to be good, also.
Pengo sank to his crouch, and Sinke watched the 
batter step into the box. His stomach, relaxed for 
most of the game, was tense now, wondering just like 
the rest of him whether or not something incredibly 
bad would happen like a roller to the wall when he’d 
have to get into the infield and maybe make a game- 
deciding call at third, or worse, home. It wa a three- 
man crew today, one on each side of the infield and 
the chief ump behind the plate. They could cover the 
field okay, but working with three instead of four 
meant a lot more running around for Sinke. If one of 
the other umps has to get to the outfield, like on a 
roller, then Sinke would have to cover third, and 
possibly even home if the first base ump doesn’t get 
down the line in time. He hated those kinds of 
rotations. Something always screwed up.
This batter could hit, too. He’d sat a couple

---------------------------------------------------

weeks for the Phillies last September when they were 
looking for new talent. Sinke didn’t like this guy. He 
had that big-league attitude. He would plant one foot 
at the back of the box and dig it in, then stick his 
^hand up right in Sinke’s face to say “I’m not ready 
yet.” Didn’t even look at Sinke, just stuck his hand in 
Sinke’s face, showing Sinke the palm of his dirty 
batting glove.
Sinke settled in behind Pengo for the first pitch. 
His knees hurt. Bad. And this guy was a lefty. Sinke 
adjusted so he could see the plate better. Then Pengo 
shifted after giving the pitcher a sign, blocking 
Sinke’s view again. Sinke had been trained to 
^pontinue play only when he had a good view of the 
plate. Oh, well. The pitcher stepped onto the rubber, 
and set himself. Pengo was still yelling at the pitcher, 
and Sinke could hear the teams in the dugouts. His 
mask was all wrong, pushing against his forehead too 
hard. It hurt. He would have to wait, though, until 
after the pitch. The pitcher glanced over to the 
runners.
“Gimme a strike, you sonofabitch!”
^ The batter cocked his arm, twitched the bat a 
little. Sinke took a breath. It was coming.
Sinke watched the arc of the ball, thought about 
how the guys who ump in the majors talk about these 
two-foot curve balls. It was bullshit; it had to be. 
Nobody’s curve breaks like that. This one was okay, 
according to Sinke, and right after the ball thumped 
into Pengo’s glove he shot his right arm straight out. 
“Hrrrrikke one!” he shouted, loud as he could 
^nanage. His throat burned.
“Low and away, man! Dammit, low and away!” 
The batter stepped out, shoving his hand at Sinke’s 
face again.
Sinke fixed his mask. His pants were too tight, 
and he was paying for squeezing his feet into his old 
shoes because he didn’t want to spend $70 for a new 
pair unless he got the call sometime this season. But 
it was already July, and there was no word from the 
-majors; not yet at least. Maybe someone would get 
nurt.
Runner on second. Two out. Score tied. One 
strike on the batter. One catcher harassing his pitcher, 
two outs, one self-centered batter, and Sinke the 
Umpire. It wasn’t even a nice stadium, Sinke thought. 
The grass was brown and thirsty, the bleachers were 
old and looked flimsy. Pengo was watching Sinke 
stare at the stands. “Home plate’s over here, Sinke,” 
he said.
^ Sinke yelled, “Let’s play.”
Pengo set his target. Sinke stood behind him. He 
was tired of squatting. The dirt was getting into his 
mask and his mouth and he hated its taste. They 
didn’t care about him. The coaches, the players. He 
was just another part of it, like the bleachers or the 
hot dogs. In the majors the umps had a dressing 
room; they got cold soft drinks before the game and 
during breaks. Everything he had heard was the same, 
^rom the way the lights make your navy blue blazer
shine at night to the wierd near-massage of the 
cushioned turf under your feet. The games were 
better, too. There were less of these three-hour 
marathons. Sinke thought about what he would keep 
in his locker at the stadium during the games: his 
street clothes, sure, but also his old mask and shoes, 
his bottle of Old Spice...he couldn’t think of anything 
else.
“Pengo,” he said, just as the pitcher stepped onto 
the rubber. He shouldn’t be talking to the catcher. It 
was one of the basics. But he knew lots of umps who 
did; nobody said anything about it.
“Christ, Sinke, he’s gonna throw!”
“You think I’m good enough for the big 
leagues?”
“Why you asking me? C’mon, asshole, throw me 
the ball!”
“Pengo, I’m serious. I’ve had it here. I’m out.” 
“Can you finish the game first?”
“Will you two shut up? I’m trying to win a fu—” 
Before he could finish, the pitcher laid a perfect 
fastball right over the heart of the plate. Sinke didn’t 
need to make a call; the batter ripped it into right 
field, a perfect base hit arcing over the second 
baseman‘s head. The ball bounced twice in the 
outfield, and by the way the runner was rounding 
third Sinke knew there would be a call to make at the 
plate. His gut knotted up. He was way too tired for 
this to happen now, after such an interminable game. 
He ripped off his mask, and trotted into position, at a 
right angle with the play. Right angles were the best 
for calling close ones; you get to see the most that 
way, nothing gets blocked. But on this play he has to 
watch for everything. On some, like at first base, he 
just has to watch the base and listen for the ball going 
into the fielder’s glove. But here, he has to see the 
tag, and the runner’s foot. He gripped the mask tight. 
He liked to use it in making the call, hold it up or 
swing it. It added some effect; some authority.
The runner was coming hard, but low: he was 
planning to slide. Pengo couldn’t block the plate 
because the throw was coming wide to the first base 
side. It would be a race to home, whether or not 
Pengo could reach across and tag the guy. Sinke 
anticipated the play. It looked like a sure out, and 
there would be extra innings, more pitches to call. 
Pengo stretched across the plate just as the runner 
went down into his slide. There was dirt everywhere, 
billowing up fast in clouds around the three of them. 
That was it. Quick as that, the play was over. It was 
all up to him.
Sinke hadn’t seen it very well. It looked like 
Pengo got there in time, but might not have tagged 
the runner. The runner, though, might not have 
touched the plate, only slid right by it without 
knowing. All that goddamn dust got in the way. He 
smelled it, tasted it, could feel it coating him as he 
watched the two players’ heads turn toward him, 
waiting for a signal. It could go either way, Sinke 
thought, judgement call. Three hours, and that was
just today. The games all blurred together; Sinke 
heard stories about games he supposedly called that 
sounded more exciting than anything he remembered. 
All he could remember was the dirt caked on his feet 
and hands, the hours in the heat. Some of his friends 
were working on astro turf now, at night when it’s 
cooler. They flew to their games. Sinke took the bus. 
Pengo was holding his hands out, pleading for a 
decision. Sinke was tired, and had had enough. None 
of this meant anything; he wasn’t going anywhere at 
all except home and back here tomorrow. He made 
the call. Safe.
Pengo argued, loudly, but Sinke just walked 
away. He didn’t want to hear it, didn’t want to think 
about it. The game was over. The guy was safe, and 
there wasn’t anything Pengo could do about it. Sinke 
walked toward the hole in the dugout that led outside, 
away from Pengo. Pengo stopped yelling, and came 
up close beside Sinke, saying “You’re no fucking 
good, man, no fucking good at all.”
The Echo announced the totals for the game, 
hits, runs, errors. Sinke heard him accenting every­
thing, making the names bigger than life. It was the 
gimmick; the Echo would make it up there sometime 
soon, probably sit in a cushy office with the best 
mikes available, drawing out the names of the 
superstars to milk applause from the crowd. Sinke 
tried to picture himself in a new uniform, navy blazer 
and all, standing at the plate with his four-man crew 
before a game, mask at his heart as they played the 
national anthem, some orange or purple mascot in 
front of him thrusting a carpet-covered stomach and 
pretending to give him a big kiss. The Echo thanked 
the crowd for attending the game.
Sinke tried not to listen. He didn’t want them to 
be thanked for coming. They didn’t appreciate any of 
it: the work, the effort. All they saw was the home 
team lose, and they wanted to blame it on him. The 
play rewound over and over in his head: runner, 
Pengo, dirt, call, argument. Sometimes he focused on 
the comer of the plate being covered, or Pengo’s 
glove straining for an extra inch of reach. He didn’t 
know if he’d gotten the call right. He wondered if it 
mattered. He thought about lots of close ones, ones 
that could have gone either way, and decided that 
they really weren’t too important in the long run.
Even if he did get them wrong. There were still over 
a hundred games left in the season; the thought made 
Sinke shudder. There was no way. Every pitch 
brought an argument, from one side of the field or the 
other. All the games blended into each other into 
Sinke’s history of triple A ball; ten seasons’ worth of 
fogged over calls, and not one mention of the big 
leagues. He didn’t want the burden any more, the 
responsibility of getting these calls right. Just once he 
wanted set up for the play, watch it carefully, and 
with every ear in the stadium straining to hear his 
call, say, “I didn’t see it. Decide for yourselves."
Brett Molotsky

---------------------------------------------------

o
o
t wasn't very
O
O
o
It wasn’t very deep 
We drank
And talked for a while 
She said
“I don’t really want to fuck you 
I just want to get into this album”
I watched her 
Watching me
And, I suspected, She watched me 
And wondered what I was watching 
The rain came 
I fell,
And it wasn’t very deep
James R. Williams-1
0
deep

---------------------------------------------------

dEysh0p BT2yg
Hey, man. what's wrong with you? 
Nothing.
en Island Ferry­
man.
Whatever happened to 
consciousness and righteous rage? 
Are you “surviving” now- 
shit, you've got it made.

---------------------------------------------------

(
Did you ever wonder what it’s like to be 
one of the Ugly People? I mean like one of 
those chestless, nasal voiced guys with a 
complexion like a road kill who spends 
Friday nights in the college library? Who’s 
about 6’3" and weighs 124 pounds, has 
yellow teeth and thick glasses, and is not 
even close to losing his virginity at age 22? 
Well, that’s me. In fact I just described 
myself in fifty words or less.
My name is Hermy Scarrf, or “Wormy 
Barf,” as I was called (ten times a day, 
seven days a week) from age five to age 
fifteen. I was the shy sophmore who walked 
through the high school halls while teenage 
girls pushed each other into him. I was, if 
you will, the Woody Allen who never made 
it, hearing snickers behind him as he 
tripped on a bump in the sidewalk.
I do not have that shallow adolescent 
dream of being popular. I do not like the 
popular crowds— fraternities, polo shirts, 
kegs of beer— these things could drop off 
the earth tomorrow for all I’m concerned.
All I would really want if I had the choice, 
would be to be an average guy— okay, 
maybe a slightly good-looking average guy 
(the Dustin Hoffman type would be fine), 
whose Levi’s didn’t hang off his butt like 
drapery over a painting, who could go to a 
soccer game or a poetry reading and meet a 
sweet, slightly good-looking, earthy kind of 
gal with a slightly dirty mind. I could take it 
from there.
There was only one time in high school 
when I even got close to being accepted. 
That was when, at my mother’s suggestion,
I joined the basketball team. I wasn’t half 
bad. But Dad thought I should quit when I 
slipped down to a ‘B’ in World History, and I 
did. He commended me on my mature 
decision. Mom said nothing.
This was what I was thinking as I 
walked to class one Friday in my second 
year of college, when the person who usu­
ally sat next to me (a friendly sort of guy by 
the name of Colin) came stumbling up from 
behind me. He said he had just heard a 
rumor that there was a quiz that day. I told 
him it was true. He paled and said he 
hadn’t been doing well in the class since he 
had caught a virus. His nose was looking 
chapped and his eyes rather red, and I’d 
noticed he had looked this way all week. I 
had studied for the quiz and was running 
close to an ‘A’ average, so near the end of 
the quiz, when the instructor was dis­
tracted by a malfunctioning radiator, I 
turned my test paper toward Colin and let 
him copy several answers.
As a sort of return favor, I suppose (I’d 
hate to think it was pity), Colin mentioned 
that there was a party that night at his 
friend Steve’s house, and gave the address.
I said casually that it sounded interesting 
and I just might stop by.
I could not decide whether to go or not.
I weighed the possible dangers (not know­
ing a soul, looking like a fool hanging 
around the refreshments all evening, being 
smirked at) with the possible advantages 
(meeting a girl, being able to casually 
mantion to others that I was, going to, or 
had gone to, a party, and not having to sit 
at home with the radio, listening to the 
sounds of reveling until 3 A.M.). I decided to 
take a chance— after all, what did I really 
have to lose? Once I had made my decision,
I gave my all to the preparations.
After dinner I took a long shower. After 
drying off, I reapplied my deodorant (I had 
already showered and deodored that morn­
ing) and combed my wet hair carefully, 
creating a new style which drooped a little 
over my forehead to cover the worst of my 
acne. Then I put on my best-fitting jeans 
and a pale pink button-down shirt (pale 
pink was the coolest color for a guy to wear 
that year. It showed he was not afraid to 
look like a powder puff). I looked into the 
mirror and smiled. Ugh. I brushed my teeth 
for ten more minutes, but the stains were 
there to stay, the consequence of my child­
hood aversion to Cinnamon Crest. I looked 
into the mirror again, this time smiling with 
my mouth closed. No. The open neck of the 
shirt was exposing a patch of acne on my 
chest—a patch which any girl of normal 
height would find herself face-to-face with 
should she deign to speak to me or (dare I 
dream it?) even dance with me. I changed 
into a black tee shirt and baseball jacket. 
No. Too high-schoolish. A blue and white 
oxford. Shit, no. It had a stain on the sleeve 
which I’d no time to wash out, and was too 
short for me. Back to the pink shirt, only I 
toned down the redness of the pimples with 
some baby powder. Thought for a while 
more about whether to let the shirt hang 
out or to tuck it in. After trying it in and out 
several times, it was so wrinkled at the 
bottom that I was forced to tuck it in.
At that point it was 8:30. I wanted to 
make absolutely sure I was not too early, so 
I planned to leave at 8:50. Until that time, I 
basically just sat around. I bragged to my 
roommate Stan. “Stan,” I said, “I’m going 
out to this party in a few minutes...Yeah, a 
friend of mine invited me, I think it’s gonna 
be pretty cool...Yeah, so, you know, don’t 
worry if I’m out real late.” I wanted to ask 
him if the shirt was okay, but decided 
against it. I snipped a loose thread off my 
sock. I went to the bathroom; my nervous 
stomach was killing me. Finally, at quarter 
of, I embarked.
9sR2R a 9Og 9sR0 on oEysR2 1OAARI

---------------------------------------------------

1
I
The house was not far from campus. I 
saw several small groups on their way 
over, and was relieved to see that a few 
guys were even on their own. I kept my eyes 
on a short guy in a yellow shirt and khakis. 
He didn’t look too threatening, and I figured 
if he was standing alone later on I would try 
and strike up a conversation. Maybe then 
the two of us could try to meet some girls.
It was a large house. I walked in the
# door a few steps behind a small group, 
hoping it would seem that I was with them. 
No one looked at me too strangely. So far so 
good. The music was not very loud and the 
house smelled nicely of burning wood and 
various aftershaves and perfumes. It was a 
thick crowd, but being tall, I easily spotted 
the small refreshment table squeezed 
between two kegs. I waited in the keg line,
# although I hate beer, and when I had a 
cupful, I reached through some shoulders 
and grabbed a few pretzels. Now what? I 
looked around and saw everyone standing 
in little circles, talking. No one I knew, of 
course. The guy in the yellow shirt was 
joyously greeted by one group; a girl threw 
her arms around him and called him 
“Duckie.”
H A feeling of utter invisibility set in. It 
was worse than invisibility, though, be­
cause I knew people could see me and I did 
look stupid. Sipping my beer, I decided to 
look for Colin. After wandering around for a 
bit and almost tripping over a telephone 
cord, I spotted him. He and another guy 
were trying to feed potato chips to a large 
orange cat. I walked up. “Nice cat,” I said,
^ and petted it. Colin looked up at me, didn’t 
seem to recognize me at first, then gave a 
tight smile. Then he and the other guy were 
completely silent. Neither looked at me. 
Even the cat turned its little pink ass on 
me. I smiled stupidly, and walked away, 
mortified.
I passed the door. Should I split? No.
My beer was not even gone yet. Besides 
there must be someone, somewhere, stand­
ing alone. If I looked hard enough I would 
find him or her. And I did. One girl, by the 
doorway to the kitchen, pretending to be 
very absorbed in eating her pretzel. She was 
a chunky girl in a pale blue blouse and gray 
skirt. Her face was plain and densely 
freckled, her hair reddish and frizzy. I 
waited for a while, to see of she was just 
waiting for a friend to bring over some 
drinks or if she was just standing alone.
The more I looked at her, the less homely I 
found her. Her cheeks were nicely flushed, 
and her lower legs, under the skirt, were 
round and strong. I found myself wondering 
in the back of my mind whether the rest of 
her body was also freckled.
I tried to catch her eye and smile at her 
(lips closed), but she was not looking in my 
direction. Finally, I mustered my courage 
and walked over to her.
“Pardon me,” I said. She looked up. I 
could not tell what she was thinking as she 
looked at me; her eyes seemed far away. 
Bored. “Do you know Colin?” I asked. She 
shook her head. I smiled. “What about 
Steve?”
“Not really,” she said. “I’m a friend of 
Abby’s.”
“Who is Abby?”
She looked at me as if I’d asked, ‘Who’s 
the Pope?’ “Steve’s girlfriend,” she said, and 
gestured towards a couple necking on the 
staircase.
“Oh.” I paused. “What’s your name?”
“Lydia,” she said.
“Mine’s Herman Scarrf.” She nodded, 
still staring into the distance. “Listen,” I 
began, “would you like to— ”
“Excuse me.” She turned suddenly and 
walked over to the necking couple and 
tapped Abby on the shoulder. Abby ex­
tracted herself, her face red with whisker 
bums. Lydia said something to her in a 
harsh whisper. I will never know what she 
said, but the angry look on her face said, 
“How dare you leave me alone here to fend 
off the weirdos?” In fact they all turned and 
looked at me then, Steve with a loose-lipped 
and vacant stare, as if he wanted to return 
to Abby’s kiss as soon as possible, Abby 
with mild, unsurprised disgust, as if some­
one had just thrown up on the carpet, and 
Lydia with indignation.
Quickly, I looked away from them, as if I 
had been merely scanning the crowd. 
Sipping my beer as casually as I could, I 
made it to the door and walked outside. 
There were a few people out on the lawn, 
enjoying the cool night. I left my half-empty 
beer on the steps by the doorway and 
started home. In a car parked near the 
house, I caught a glimpse of two 
bodies.When I was out of view of the house,
I broke into an easy trot, feeling the crisp 
air cool my burning face and sweaty chest.
Back in my room, I found a note; Herm, 
your mother called at ten. Stan must have 
left soon after he wrote it. He was still out. I 
dropped the note and fell face down on the 
bed. I saw the baby powder on my dresser 
and winced. I thought of my mother and 
much I would have like to talk to her. She 
was probably calling to see how the test 
went, and to tell me the latest antics of our 
poodle. Jaws. She must have been sur­
prised as hell that I wasn’t home. For the 
first time I can remember since puberty, I 
cried a little. Tearing off my carefully se­
lected shirt, I balled it up and threw it at 
that damn baby powder. Perfect shot. The 
canister fell slowly, easily, right into the 
trash can below, and the shirt followed. 
Maybe I’d go out for basketball, I thought. 
And then again, maybe not. It would be 
their loss.
Kathleen Summers

---------------------------------------------------

9hgIEU
A woman of many talents / blond and chesty 
A woman of extensive experience / eyes bright and blue 
A woman's woman, independent / sensuous snd desirable 
A woman of wisdom / with the wisdom of women
Wise in the ways of the wide world's workings 
Willful of wandering and wishful in wan tings 
Would change the way we see her
The older and wiser one / she's Just a girl
The knowledgeable and experienced one / she’s not your mother 
The one quick to rightous indignation / she’s, on the edge 
The one who knows she thinks / she thinks she knows
With hopless outlook on the thoughts of men 
With fearful life laid out in details 
Without concern for the rights of the guilty 
Within her walls she plans the revolution
She holds the key / they hide the lock 
She weilds her sword / they sheathe their daggers 
She beats on brows / they numb the bruises 
She screams out loud / they will not listen
Despite despair defeat declines dominion 
Unhappy soul, that must the earth o'ertum.
Micheál Rose

---------------------------------------------------

Sitting in a chair, 
all alone.
Waiting,
Waiting only for the lonely 
chime of the dinner bell. 
Waiting for the excitement 
of standing and walking 
to the table.
After the weak meal 
of broth and bread, 
she sits, 
rocking,
Rocking the time away 
for the thrill
of standing and walking 
to bed.
Lying,
Lying in bed,
Trying to sleep
But only remembering a time
she was wanted,
Needed.
She weeps, 
lonely tears
roll down her wrinkled face 
and off her sunken cheeks 
into vast emptiness.
The tear will not be seen, 
its feelings never felt.
To be old, 
to by lying, 
rocking, 
waiting. ..
Albrecht T. Powell

---------------------------------------------------

X
Published by The Tartan 
Carnegie Mellon University 
November 24, 1987 
Volume 9 Number 2

---------------------------------------------------

TASK FORCE REPORT
ON
THE QUALITY OF 
STUDENT LIFE
AT
CARNEGIE
MELLON
UNIVERSITY
November 24,1987

---------------------------------------------------

TASK FORCE REPORT ONTHE QUALITY OF STUDENT LIFEATCARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The issue of the quality of student life at Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity has emerged recently, largely from discussions among various 
segments of the campus community concerning the University's 
progress toward becoming one of the nation’s outstanding universi­
ties. The University has made enormous strides toward this end, 
primarily by concentrating on high-caliber educational and re­
search programs. It would appear, however, that improvement is 
now needed along other dimensions—e.g., general education, cul­
tural diversity, and student services and facilities—before the 
University can be counted among the group of elite institutions in 
the nation. Recognizing a need for an assessment of quality of 
student life, in April of1987 the University administration charged 
a Task Force with this study, and requested that we make recom­
mendations that could effect positive changes. This report summa­
rizes our findings.
During our deliberations we continually discussed potential 
changes in the light of the University’s tradition, its special charac­
ter, and its particular strengths. We wish not to diverge from the 
path along which we have traveled so far. The intellectual vitality 
which has existed here for some time now is not to be taken for 
granted, and under no circumstances can an erosion of this vitality 
be permitted to occur. Accordingly, growth of the University along 
new dimensions must not impede the progress we have made, and ‘ 
must continue to make, along our strong traditional lines. We view 
as being equally essential, however, the implementation of meas­
ures of the sort described herein if the University is to enhance 
further its market position for attracting the best available stu­
dents, faculty and staff, and for creating a climate that nurtures our 
highest aspirations.
In light of the foregoing arguments we recommend the following:
. . p..; 4 * ifr fn V - U f gi~* , ( *. i : J i *
• The University should make available new opportunities for 
enriched general education. This should be done by modestly re­
structuring the formal academic agenda and, equally important, by 
creating and promoting informal activities intended to enhance in­
tellectual diversity.
• The diversity of culture and human resources must be ex­
tended, along the lines of gender, race, etc., among students and 
faculty. Goals and objectives must be established and articulated, 
and progress toward these ends monitored and reported. As part of 
this initiative, a clear signal should be transmitted to our students 
(particularly undergraduates) that the University values and en­
courages cultural diversity and exchange.
been embraced almost universally by the campus community. Not 
only are expectations high, but the protraction of this project will 
have a chilling effect on all other steps, including those recom­
mended herein, that are taken to enable Carnegie Mellon to reflect 
the virtually limitless potential of its constituency.
a! ad’Wf,t1’afd
Since 1900, the year that ground was broken for the Carnegie 
Technical School, few institutions of higher learning have experi­
enced the progress that has been achieved on our campus. Shortly 
after the school was established it became the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, with a charter to grant degrees. Soon the institution 
created graduate programs, granting its first doctoral degree in the 
early 1920’s. Although bearing the trademark of innovation almost 
from the start, among the most notable being President R.E. 
Doherty’s “Carnegie Plan” of the late 1930’s, Carnegie Tech was to 
remain primarily a regional institution until after the Second World 
War. Subsequently, through the 1960’s, the campus witnessed the 
growth of specialized research and the transition from a regional to 
a national university, noted primarily for the high quality of its 
professional schools and research programs. More recently, within 
the last decade especially, the emergence of Carnegie Mellon as an 
international leader in education and research has reflected the 
University’s most remarkable progress.
While the extension of the University’s leadership toward placing 
it among the top handful of elite academic institutions is a worthy 
goal, a question arises concerning strategy: Can we attain that goal 
solely by becoming even better at what we now do so well, i.e., 
providing strong educational and research programs, or must we 
also progress along other dimensions to which heretofore we have 
cast less attention? The University administration posed this 
question, in effect, when, in April of1987, it appointed a Task Force 
to study issues related to what, for want of a better term, was called 
Quality of Life. (The specific charge to the Task Force is included in 
Appendix I.) This Task Force, comprising more than 70 persons— 
students, faculty, administrators and staff—from all parts of the 
University, was organized into four committees charged with study­
ing
• Intellectual Opportunities/Challenges
• Diversity of University Population
• Support Services, Programs and Facilities, and
• Organization for Student Quality of Life
• The University should articulate a commitment to the total 
development of the student, and provide the resources and facilities 
to enable student services to respond accordingly.
• The new organizational structure of the upper administration 
should be supplemented by the creation of a Student and Academic 
Affairs Board through which students, among others, would have 
active participation. The President also should play a key role on 
this board and with other groups comprising students, faculty, and 
administrative officers to ensure a clear and continuous commit­
ment by the University to the overall quality of campus life.
• Construction of the proposed University Center should com­
mence at the earliest possible time. The notion of the Center, 
initially conceived by the central administration, is one that has
These committees assumed as their primary responsibility intro­
spection of existing conditions, with a view toward suggesting 
changes that would be in the best interests of the campus community 
(particularly our undergraduate students); a secondary responsibil­
ity was to the goal of promoting the University’s stature. That the 
ultimate recommendations of the Task Force are, we believe, con­
gruent with both responsibilities makes them especially satisfying 
to us.
Most would agree that over the past 15 years campus life has 
improved greatly for the Carnegie Mellon community. The aca­
demic quality of our students is high; faculty and staff are better 
rewarded and exhibit higher morale than was the case just a decade 
ago; and the University has charted a cdiirse and set standards that 
are respected by our most prestigious counterparts.

---------------------------------------------------

• Carnegie Mellon’s commitment to excellence in education and re­
search has been translated into a clear primary mission: the
?creation and dissemination of knowledge. Our achievements in 
education and research are the most significant measures of the 
University’s quality. For example, programs in engineering and 
public policy, philosophy, musical theater, technical writing, and 
the university-wide core curriculum have been established; and
• continuing programs in music, biology, and chemistry have been re­
established and improved. The nation’s first computer science 
department , the Robotics Institute, the Information Technology 
Center, the Center for Design of Educational Computing, the Center 
for Arts and Technology, and the Software Engineering Institute 
have established Carnegie Mellon in the forefront of computer- 
related research and education. This reputation, coupled with 
competitive salaries and fringe benefits, has attracted and retained
• outstanding scholars who have added greatly to every academic and 
artistic department. The quality of students, attracted by the 
reputation of our programs and faculty, also is a significant measure 
of the University’s stature, as is the increased reference to Carnegie 
Mellon in the national and international press.
In addition, we have enjoyed an improvement in facilities: roofs 
#have been replaced; utility services and dormitories renovated; 
classrooms renewed; the campus grounds properly maintained; and 
much needed additional space acquired. Most of these improve­
ments might now go unnoticed because we have grown accustomed 
to them. But for those who can remember the University as it was 
even a decade ago, the current vitality of the campus community and 
the improved state of the physical plant are truly remarkable.
While we have derived satisfaction primarily from vast improve­
ments on various academic fronts, we have in recent years shown a 
greater interest in certain non-academic aspects of campus life. 
Several years ago, for example, the campus community became 
excited by a proposal to construct a new gymnasium. This proposal 
then was superseded by the idea of combining recreational and 
athletic facilities with a student union to create what has come to be 
called the University Center. Previously, a theater had been dis- 
C cussed, and more recently the construction of an additional dormi­
tory has received a high priority. All these ideas began to converge 
last spring when a master plan was proposed for the future develop­
ment of the University. An architectural competition required the 
participants to study the original design and evolution of the campus 
in order to propose this new master plan. Specifically, sites for the 
proposed University Center, dormitory, theater, and other buildings 
#were to be established.
At the root of these initiatives was the desire on the part of the 
administration to make Carnegie Mellon a place where the whole of 
each person’s intellectual, cultural, and physical being could be 
stimulated and nurtured. We must also recall, however, that the 
University’s having encountered relatively weak support and some­
times disaffection on the part of alumni has been the subject of much 
previous discussion. Assuming that attitudes of alumni are corre­
lated with their experiences as students, one can only infer that 
campus life has, for a long time, been lacking in some ways. The 
problem is a long-standing one, apparently multi-faceted, and 
probably not amenable to an easy solution. We believe, however, 
that the foregoing initiatives taken by the administration, coupled 
with measures such as those recommended herein, will go a long way 
•towards avoiding this problem with future generations of alumni.
By any measure related to the quality of educational and research 
achievements, Carnegie Mellon has earned an outstanding reputa­
tion. We believe, however, that while we further strive to exploit 
and develop traditional strengths, we must in the future pay greater 
attention to those quality-of-life issues that will contribute toward 
^making Carnegie Mellon a great university.
With this as our primary objective, the committees that comprise 
the Task Force met several times this past summer to discuss 
relevant issues. As mentioned above, this report is intended to 
inform the community of our findings and to provide recommenda­
tions to the trustees, administration, and faculty. In Section 2 we 
present our view of the current status of the community along 
•several dimensions, and we identify feasible changes that would
affect campus life positively. We then suggest in Section 3 some 
administrative reorganization that seems appropriate; indeed, re­
cent decisions by President Cyert, precipitated by the resignation of 
Senior Vice President Crecine, have induced changes that happen to 
coincide with some that we suggest. A brief closure, provided in 
Section 4, is followed by appendices which summarize the delibera­
tions of the four committees mentioned above, and which provide 
data related to experiences and perceptions of students at Carnegie 
Mellon.
II. TOWARDS A MORE COMPLETE CAMPUS LIFE
An essential objective of any university, perhaps particularly Car­
negie Mellon, is the stimulation of the intellectual growth of its 
community—its students, its faculty, and its staff. This objective is 
especially important to Carnegie Mellon because the progress we 
have made - most notably over the past decade - is almost exclusively 
attributable to the dedication with which we have strived to fulfill 
our mission—i.e., the creation and dissemination of knowledge. We 
are recognized for cross-disciplinary, often adventuresome, re­
search that addresses the issues confronting our contemporary 
technological society, and for the manner in which this spirit of 
adventure is reflected in our curricula. Indeed, the intellectual 
vitality of the university is one of its trademarks; it is something that 
can be seen and heard, something that can be felt. Under no 
circumstances, therefore, could the erosion of this vitality be permit­
ted to occur, whether by accident or by design
Let it therefore be stated at the outset that the deliberations of the 
Task Force committees paid particular heed to the fragility of our 
intellectual vitality. The issues raised and the recommendations 
made by those committees and by the Task Force as a whole attempt 
to “fine tune” the University’s ability to fulfill its mission. Further, 
while during our deliberations we often considered quality-of-life 
issues as they pertain to the campus community overall, in the main 
we concentrated on those relating to our undergraduates. Accord­
ingly, the sequel is devoted mostly to those issues.
2.1 General Education
While the excellence of our formal academic programs is justifia­
bly a source of pride, the informal intellectual components that 
comprise, in part, the general education of our students are com­
paratively weak. As noted in Appendix II (Report by the Committee 
on Intellectual Opportunities/Challenges:
General Education—education which provides students with a 
broad understanding of and curiosity about the physical, social, 
cultural, humanistic, and artistic worlds—is a fundamental pre­
requisite to the development of a well educated person and is an 
essential prerequisite to sustaining and building a tolerant, hu­
mane, democratic society.
We believe that providing our students with a truly first-class 
general education is one of the few remaining obstacles that must be 
overcome to move Carnegie Mellon to the ranks of the top handful 
of universities in this country. We wish for our students to become 
national leaders “educated in the large,” rather than technocrats 
“educated in the small.” Accordingly, strengthening the components 
of a general education, both inside and outside the classroom, is 
imperative. This is not to imply that a serious weakness exists as 
regards our formal curricula in liberal education. As noted by David 
Riesman, Henry Ford II Professor Emeritus of Social Sciences at 
Harvard University*,
...Carnegie Mellon University has over a period of years been 
particularly inventive in managing the curricular breadth of 
students in its undergraduate preprofessional 
programs...students in engineering or in management bring to 
their courses in literature, history, or sociology—all of which 
they are required to take—a level of motivation and interest that 
is rare in a commandeered curriculum where such courses are
* “Liberal Arts Colleges and Corporate Creativity: Some Preliminary Reflec­
tions,” Essay for September 3 (1987) Symposium, Corporate Council on the 
Liberal Arts, by David Reisman.

---------------------------------------------------

often dismissed as cultural bull, at best entertaining and at 
worst distracting. While the student subcultures at Carnegie 
Mellon are not notably intellectual, the spirit of professionalism 
seems to be carried over to the required courses in the liberal arts.
Certainly this is not an unfavorable assessment of our curricula; 
one might even consider not tinkering further, while we are still 
ahead. Yet, although we have generally done a good job at providing 
a balanced education, our students tend to channel themselves (with 
our help) towards career-oriented academic pursuits to the exclu­
sion of fully appreciating the individual or social importance of 
general education. Without dulling the edge on our students’ spe­
cialized education, we wish to strengthen their general education. 
We have two essential ingredients to do this: bright students, and a 
broadly educated, first-rate faculty.
The main impediment to our strengthening the quality of general 
education, while maintaining the quality of specialized education, is 
a shortage of our most precious commodity—time. Faculty and 
students alike have so little spare time now that merely superimpos­
ing more general education requirements on the existing system is 
infeasible and self-defeating. Accordingly, some time must be 
borrowed either from the semesters or from the December/January 
and summer vacation periods. Also, this acquired time may be 
packaged in various ways for the purpose of delivering general 
education. By reducing the number of regular in-class days by, say, 
six per semester or by extending the duration of the spring semester, 
several two- or three- day periods for short courses (each carrying, 
say, one unit of credit) could be interspersed throughout the aca­
demic year. Such short courses have, in fact, been successfully 
offered on occasion—e.g., those dealing with the issues of Nuclear 
Winter and of the South African problem. Alternatively, the ac­
quired time could be concentrated into a mid-winter short term, 
sandwiched between the regular fall and spring semesters, during 
which a student could take a single nine-unit course. With either 
arrangement, time would be devoted towards fulfilling a general 
education requirement. The committee dealing with the intellectual 
opportunities/challenges studied the attributes of the mid-winter 
short term in some detail, and the gist of its recommendations is 
described below.
Mid-Winter Short Term: The current academic year would be 
divided into three parts: the spring and fall semesters, each compris­
ing 14 (instead of 15) weeks, and a mid-winter short term comprising 
three weeks. The fall semester would commence one week later than 
it now does, and the spring semester would end two weeks later; the 
net increase in the length of the academic year thus would be one 
week.
Over the course of four academic years, each student would be 
required to take a nine-unit course in each of two mid-winter short 
terms. The additional 18 units earned by the student would 
represent an additional graduation requirement. Each college 
(including SUPA and GSIA) - perhaps every department - would be 
required to offer courses, but no course could be either a departmen­
tal or college requirement or a prerequisite to such a requirement. 
Because during any given year roughly half the undergraduates will 
be enrolled during the short term, approximately half the faculty 
would have to be engaged in teaching at that time. Innumerable 
topics of study exist (see Appendix II)—e.g., Statistical Evidence and 
the Law; Climate Change and Human Activity; Earthquakes and 
Buildings; Connection Machines; Construction Robots; Abortion: 
The Human Face of a Dilemma; Creativity.Several problems (enu­
merated in Appendix II) are associated with the creation of a mid­
winter short term; however, none is so serious as to render the 
concept infeasible. Conversely, as a by-product, this short term 
might offer one additional attraction for faculty: the creation of a 
longer (six-week) period between the fall and spring semesters 
during which those who are not assigned to teach a course may 
devote full time to research.
2.2 Additional Strategies for General Education 
and Intellectual Diversity
While the completion of additional coursework represents a for­
mal component of a general education requirement, the creation of 
requirements, or at least expectations, is essential for improved
general education and intellectual diversity outside the classroom. 
Our campus offers a large, rich and varied set of activities which, foi 
a variety of reasons, too few students exploit. The vast majority of 
students polled agree that University-sponsored events are under­
attended, and most students attribute this not just to heavy work­
loads, but to finding out about those events too late.
We believe, first, that more attention should be paid by the Uni­
versity in sponsoring and publicizing in a coherent way, sets of new 
events (e.g., requiring individual departments to offer two such 
events such as seminars or demonstrations each semester), as well 
as the concerts, plays, shows, etc. that traditionally have been pre­
sented; and, second, that students - most notably freshmen and 
sophomores - should be required to attend or participate in a certain 
subset of these activities to achieve some intellectual diversity. One 
way of publicizing events is through an uairport-type” calendar 
posting system, using TV monitors that list the day’s activities by 
the hour. Such a system, which is technically feasible, obviates the 
long lead times and fragmented distribution associated with the tra­
ditional centrally published campus calendar.
We also believe that increased intellectual diversity and a greater 
sense of community would accrue from certain forms of additional 
student/faculty contact. Some suggestions are .<
• The Tartan should be encouraged to reprint faculty written 
op-ed pieces from other papers and to encourage more faculty 
contributed pieces of other kinds, — faculty/student debates 
should be sponsored on a regular basis — e.g., bi-monthly, and
• “special interest” meal tables should be institutionalized.
(
Finally, we see a need to increase the level of play and surprise on 
campus—i.e., to “lighten up” the place occasionally. Some possible 
means for doing this are
• the introduction of some kind of fall carnival activity, built 
around the arts, that could be coordinated with Homecoming,
• unexpected food service offerings around the campus (e.g., 
make-your-own sundaes, fruit vendor, microwave cookie cart,
etc.),
• exhibit space for student and faculty art and other artifacts 
in a variety of spaces outside of CFA, and perhaps a “what is it” 
space,
• more open houses in science and engineering, and publiciz­
ing other functions such as reports on design projects that would 
be appropriate to a general audience,
• general interest slide shows, demonstrations, or pre­
recorded videotapes by science and engineering faculty that 
can be interjected into the occasional CFA or H&SS function, 
and
• a program of visiting musicians that can be used at unex­
pected moments around the campus, perhaps even in the occa- . 
sional class.
Implementation of the foregoing suggestions would, of course, re­
quire modest changes in the University infrastructure.
2.3 Cultural Diversity
The General Issues: We recognize and wish to cultivate further 
the diversity of our students and our faculty across many dimen­
sions: gender, race, geographic origin, etc. Institutionally, of course, 
the University has endorsed this objective for a long time—e.g., we 
have sought, enrolled, and attempted to retain minority students. 
Here we suggest that this effort be intensified, and that the strategy 
of the last twenty years be modified. The Committee on Diversity of 
University Population recommends in its report (Appendix III) first 
that we find ways of identifying outstanding minority high school 
students, and provide on-campus and outreach programs to enable 
those students (and their parents) to gain an appreciation for 
careers in academia or other fields requiring advanced degrees.

---------------------------------------------------

Second, we should do more to instill this appreciation in our best 
undergraduates (all of them, but particularly minorities) by encour­
aging them (and the faculty) to increase undergraduate participa­
tion in research and other forms of specialized study, such as honors 
programs, which serve as a springboard towards graduate study.
Further, those graduate students whom we attract (again, espe­
cially minorities) should be counseled and encouraged to consider 
careers in academia. The intrinsic rewards of academic careers 
should be described explicitly and often by the faculty. Here, we 
believe that the Teaching Center has already begun to have a 
positive impact in some departments, both by emphasizing the 
importance of good teaching and by providing to graduate students 
valuable training for future university teaching.
And, finally, we should continue to place a high priority on the 
acquisition and retention of racial minorities and women on our 
faculty. This objective might be furthered, albeit indirectly, by the 
expanded faculty orientation program, which this year was ex­
tremely well received. The message is: Because we care about our 
faculty and about their performance, Carnegie Mellon is a very good 
place to embark on an academic career.
“Cultural Exchange” Among Students: For a long time now, 
many within the University, including those in the upper admini­
stration, have pushed for increased mixing of our undergraduates in 
order to promote cultural diversity both inside and outside the 
classroom. However, as discussed in detail in Appendix III, foster­
ing patterns of diverse interactions among students, faculty, and 
administration that cut across academic lines of demarcation is, in 
the CMU environment, moving against a strong prevailing tide.
Students, in particular, are “driven by identification first, last, 
and foremost with one’s major department and college” and they do 
not naturally identify with a larger university community. Thus, 
while students frequently complain of having “nothing to do,” 
participation in university-wide social events has been poor. As 
further elaborated in Appendix III,
This tendency comes partly, it seems, from the thrust of the 
image we propagate and use to attract students—Jprofessional­
ism* and *excellence’ and *commitment’ and ‘intensity’ in one’s 
chosen field. Whether by design or by accident, the creation of 
requirements according to department or college reinforces a 
utilitarian mentality among students that is dominated by a 
single-minded 'fee-for-service’ view to what the University 
demands of and offers to students, and a surprisingly strong 
tendency towards delayed gratification vis a vis ‘quality of life’ 
while here.
Further, the drive towards “excellence” and “professionalism” 
relegates “amateurism” to a level apparently viewed by many as 
counter-productive and almost heretical. Students thus sense, and 
indeed cultivate (perhaps with the help of some faculty), a negative 
reaction towards participating in an activity which is anything other 
than their designated professional pursuit.
On the other hand, the Committee on Diversity of University 
Population recognized that while the professional focus of the Uni­
versity might conflict with students’ other developmental needs, we 
wish not to abandon a commitment to those attributes that have 
made us distinctive. We wish to improve, not dismantle. To this end, 
the committee suggests the following:
• The University should clearly define the goals and objec­
tives it sets for itself vis a vis “diversity,” before we can imple­
ment courses of action with a purposeful sense of direction.
• Academic and non-academic units (departments, housing, 
fraternities, etc.) should consider by way of “diversity impact 
statements” the implications for diversity goals and objectives 
of particular proposals, decisions, programs, etc. This might 
help us be careful in what we do that - explicitly or implicitly - 
structurally promotes atomization and unnecessarily inhibits 
interaction.
• We should systematically define, collect, and analyze rele-
vant data about our students that could help inform us about 
characteristics, attitudes, and behavior patterns pertinent to 
the issues of diversity and diverse interaction. While we have 
traditionally collected much data, what is needed most is 
centralized coordination so that we might detect, for example, 
any patterns (narrowing or expanding) of change of student 
interests and activities outside of their primary area of study.
• The University should offer tangible rewards to persons 
who promote diverse interaction, such as the Student Recogni­
tion Award sponsored each year by the Student Affairs Office.
• We should develop opportunities and highly visible aca­
demic programs that promote diverse interaction—e.g., a uni­
versity-level equivalent of existing college-level honors pro­
grams, through which a student could complete a senior honors 
project on a subject of interdisciplinary (cross-college) interest.
• A permanent “Quality of Life Oversight Committee” should 
be established to continue the process of self-examination and 
goal articulation in a positive and regenerative manner, with 
ongoing student involvement.
2.4 Athletics and Student Servicesv »
Recreational diversions to which a student turns outside of class 
include athletics and other social activities for which services and 
facilities are essential. Reviewing the current and future recrea­
tional uses and needs, the Committee on Support Services, Pro­
grams, and Facilities observed that the quality of Carnegie Mellon’s 
services and facilities are not on par with that of our academic 
programs. It is appreciated that the proposed University Center will 
go far to remove this disparity. While the specific configuration and 
services associated with the Center have not yet been defined, we 
assume that they will be adequate to satisfy needs that existing 
facilities cannot. We also assume that the Center will be in place 
within five years. Accordingly, the committee concentrated on 
issues related to the existing facilities, with a view toward how they 
might be enhanced by the creation of the University Center.
Athletics: Physical education, intramural sports and intercolle­
giate competition comprise the spectrum of athletic activities at 
Carnegie Mellon. During any given term, less than one percent of 
the student population is enrolled in formal physical education 
classes; this is partly due to limited facilities and instructional 
personnel and to the inflexibility of student schedules. As described 
in more detail in Appendix IV, some components (e.g., the gym and 
pool) are good for classes; others (e.g., equipment) are deficient, 
especially for recreational activity. Some improvements could be 
realized—for example, extended hours for use of the pool and gym, 
and the training of student aides to assist in providing physical 
recreation. There might even be some merit to requiring some 
physical education for all students.
Many students (about 40% of the total and 70% of male students) 
participate in intramural sports. An interesting comparison of our 
facilities with those of a comparable institution, Johns Hopkins 
University, is included in Appendix V. While our undergraduate 
enrollment is about 75% larger than Johns Hopkins’, and a while we 
possess approximately two-thirds the outdoor playing area, three to 
four times more CMU students participate in intramural activities. 
Clearly ours is a strong, apparently self-sustaining activity that is 
limited by physical facilities and support personnel. Nevertheless, 
more than half the students polled view the gym and the playing 
fields negatively. The limitation of facilities for physical recreation 
would be relaxed by making existing facilities available early in the 
day, by providing a grassy area on which outdoor activities can be 
played, and by prohibiting the varsity teams from practicing on the 
intramural fields.
The University fields competitive teams in all sports against PAC 
and UAA opponents, including football, basketball, swimming (co­
ed), cross-country, soccer, golf, tennis, track, women’s basketball, 
women’s volleyball, fencing (co-ed), women’s tennis, women’s field 
hockey, women’s track, and women’s cross-country. Full-time 
coaches are employed to maintain excellence in this phase of ath­
letics.

---------------------------------------------------

Probably both the program and the student body would benefit 
from better advertising and marketing of intercollegiate competi­
tion on campus. Perhaps also, a review would be in order of the 
equipment, medical care, food, and travel provided to our teams.
Personal Services: Health, personal and career counseling, 
crisis management, student advocacy, financial aid, tutoring, study 
skills assistance, emergency loan services, CMAP, services for 
special populations such as handicapped students, veterans, and 
foreign students are all personal services provided on the Carnegie 
Mellon campus. The Health Center receives more than 10,000 visits 
annually and the Counseling and Student Development Center 
received more than 2,800 visits during this last academic year, 1986/ 
87. Evidence points to ever-expanding use of these services. More­
over, data collected by the Admissions Office indicates a change in 
character of our students that suggests a need for increasing per­
sonal services.
We also observed that budgets allocated to personal services are 
inadequate. Johns Hopkins, for example, budgets substantially 
more money for health care and student activities for substantially 
fewer students. Generally, we are concerned that the importance 
of personal services has not been adequately acknowledged and 
publicized by the University, and that all students’ needs are not 
being met. The University should study this issue carefully. It also 
should recognize the importance of considering interpersonal skills 
when hiring faculty and staff and to find ways of improving such 
skills, which impact the quality of human interaction within our 
community.
Student Organizations: Responses of students to questions 
concerning opportunities for social interaction are enigmatic. On 
the one hand, students cite the existence of such opportunities, but 
say they lack the time and motivation to exploit them. On the other 
hand, they describe the campus as a somewhat lonely place, with no 
place to “hang out”; with competitiveness excessively high; with 
fraternities as the main social outlet; and with a busy faculty who 
teach well and are available for consultation, but who are not really 
interested in their students. Having enough time is a problem, but 
so also is knowing how to use free time beneficially. While more than 
75 percent of the students polled claim to belong to at least one 
student group, last year 65 percent attended fewer than five events 
sponsored by student organizations. Something seems wrong here, 
but the exact problem is unclear.
As some students have suggested, special events planned jointly 
by the Activities Board, the Student Dormitory Council, and the 
resident assistants might be more successful. We suspect that at 
least part of the problem is attributable simply to the inherent mix 
of factors: bright, academically oriented and often socially immature 
freshmen, who have individual tastes and preferences, and who 
perhaps perceive most social functions as being intended for the 
other guy. The pattern then becomes set for four or more years and, 
while perhaps not catastrophic, such a pattern undermines the 
whole quality-of-life initiative. Clearly, then, the question becomes 
how to draw students, particularly freshmen, into activities and 
organizations on campus, thereby creating a ‘culture of participa­
tion.’ Student groups should be encouraged to lead this movement.
Auxiliary Services and Security: The University Dining 
Services, the Offices of Housing, Parking, Vending, and the Campus 
Stores comprise Auxiliary Services. Students questioned about 
these services generally cited strengths and weaknesses for each. 
Except for parking space, which is not made available to students, 
services are generally regarded as being neither very good nor very 
poor. Dining Services, for example, is considered to offer overall 
good quality, variety, and price. Improvement would be welcome, 
however, in the quality of food in the Kiltie Cafeteria and in service 
in the very late hours of the evening.
The cost, variety, and overall quality of both housing and vending 
were cited, although so too was the need to improve the response to 
maintenance needs. A far more significant problem regarding 
housing is the insufficient supply of dormitory rooms. Only approxi­
mately two-thirds of our students live on campus, partly due to 
deficient dormitory space. (By comparison, over ninety percent of 
Johns Hopkins’ students reside on campus.) This shortage of space
adversely affects the participation of some students in campus 
activities.
The Campus Stores were viewed as being accessible and conven­
ient; however, limited space, inadequate stock, and high price were 
noted as weaknesses. Parking is perceived as providing inadequate 
spaces for both undergraduate and graduate students.
The Office of Security was considered to be strong, particularly in 
response to health-related emergencies; increasing its visibility, 
however, was viewed to be an area for potential improvement.
Recommendations: The Committee on Student Services makes 
the following recommendations:
• The mission statement of the University should reflect a 
commitment to the total development of the student—intellec­
tual, physical, emotional, cultural, and spiritual.
*• The image of student services needs to be integrated, pro­
moted and communicated campus-wide (including a unifying 
presentation and a directory of student services). Emphasis 
should be placed on the internal flow of information and public 
relations to and from students.
• A “student services” perspective must be integrated into all y 
phases of the University’s operations, and adequate financial re­
sources provided to support the increased demands for student 
services as the University grows in population and complexity.
• The Quality of Life Seminar, attended by a broad spectrum of 
the University community, should be a continuous process.
• The University Center is central to the development of uni­
versity life. The whole community is watching the progress expec­
tantly. Regular, reliable progress reports need to be made to the 
whole community.
• The University should use the ideas and energy of students to
improve student services. Student representatives should be 
members of some of the University’s higher-level committees. t)
• A student fund should be established similar to the Ryan 
Committee fund (which is used to improve teaching areas). Stu­
dents chosen for their leadership and good judgment would decide 
how this pool of funds would be used to improve student life.
• The athletic programs should be promoted so as to increase
campus community spirit. The condition of existing facilities ^
must be improved steadily, parallel to the proposed University 
Center.
• Student Services should recognize that this is a busy campus
which is used 24 hours per day. Services, such as food service, 
should be organized around the actual hours when they would be 
most useful. Also, times and places for work and relaxation should ^
be made as separate as possible.
III. RECOMMENDED STRUCTURAL CHANGES
Numerous suggestions and recommendations have been noted in 
the foregoing sections of this report. None, however, refers directly 
to changes in the administrative structure of the University that *
would be necessary, or at least desirable, to realize the kind of 
improvements we all seek. A feasible set of changes is described 
below.
3.1 Recent Administrative Structure
As discussed in greater detail in Appendix V, information about g
student affairs has, until recently, reached the President from four 
separate sources: two Vice Presidents, one Senior Vice President, 
and the coordinator of Athletics and Physical Education. (Although 
the recent resignation of John P. Crecine as Senior Vice President for 
Academic Affairs has precipitated a reorganization, the new admin­
istrative structure is not known to us in detail.) There has been no
»!

---------------------------------------------------

representative on the Resource, Space, or Capital Allocation Boards 
whose primary allegiance is to student affairs. Also, less than 
desirable coordination exists between student affairs and academic 
affairs. This requires lateral coordination among colleges, coordina­
tion which currently is weak.
3.2 Recommended Structure
To address these problems, we make two recommendations. The 
first is the creation of a Student and Academic Affairs Board (SAAB),
- which would have a coordinating and planning role for student and 
academic affairs. The SAAB would comprise the deans (or their 
designated representatives) of the colleges; the Dean of Student 
Affairs; a representative of the Educational Affairs Council of the 
Faculty Senate; a representative of the Student Senate; a represen­
tative from the Interfratemity Council; a representative from the 
Student Dormitory Council; a representative from Security; and 
other members as seen fit. Examples of activities are: coordinating 
student advisory councils, dealing with advising issues, develop­
ment of a central university calendar, coordination of on-line com­
puter services, etc. This SAAB should be chaired either by the 
President or by other University officers with authority to coordi­
nate academic and non-academic affairs.
The second recommendation involves consolidating student af- 
^ fairs activities within the University’s organization chart. Indeed, 
this consolidation evidently was considered desirable by the Presi­
dent, independent of the eventual recommendations of the Task 
Force. Very recently the responsibilities of the Vice President for 
Enrollment, William F. Elliott, have been expanded to include 
Student Affairs. He now reports to the President and has 
jurisdiction over existing student affairs offices—i.e., the Dean of 
Student Affairs, Career Services and Placement, Athletics, the 
C Registrar, etc. In view of our first recommendation, we suggest that 
also reporting to Dr. Elliott should be newly created positions of 
Campus Center/Student Union Coordinator and of Student Infor­
mation Services Office.
While it is feasible for Dr. Elliott and Provost Jordan to co-chair 
the SAAB, in order to provide the necessary coordination of aca­
demic and non-academic matters, an alternative arrangement 
would include the President, himself, chairing this committee. If a 
pervasive weakness existed in the previous administrative struc­
ture, it was reflected not only in the dispersion of responsibility for 
non-academic student affairs, but, in the absence of integration of 
those affairs with academic matters. Under the new organizational 
structure, the potential still exists for this lack of integration. We 
believe that the need for integration and coordination is sufficiently 
( strong to require the direct involvement of the President.
The foregoing is merely a feasible arrangement, not necessarily 
the optimal one. It parallels similar arrangements at other univer­
sities. Clearly, in addition to the recent reorganization that has been 
implemented, any further changes are the responsibility of the 
President.
3.3 Institutional Commitment to the Quality of Life
An official of the University, perhaps Dr. Elliott, who would be 
responsible for the overall coordination vis a vis quality of life, 
should annually prepare a report on the quality of life at the 
University. This report should include the following measures:
L • a questionnaire, distributed to a representative sample of 
students, which would be carefully formatted to permit the 
judgment of progress over time,
• space allocations to student life, accounting for changes 
over time at the University, and comparing us with other 
universities,
• expenditures in the quality of life area, measured over time, 
and comparatively, and
IV. CLOSURE
Blessed is he who has found his work; 
let him ask no other blessedness, 
he has a work, a life-purpose; 
he has found it and will follow it.
- Thomas Carlyle
One ought, every day at least,
to hear a little song,
read a good poem,
see a fine picture,
and, if it were possible,
to speak a few reasonable words.
- Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe
This report is only the beginning of a process that, in time, we 
believe, will lead Carnegie Mellon to an elevated position among our 
most prestigious counterparts. The main conclusions and recom­
mendations presented in the Executive Summary, as well as the 
more specific and detailed ones discussed in the body and appendices 
of this report, should form the basis for careful and continual 
evaluation of our culture. Above all else, effort towards this evalu­
ation must be sustained.
We applaud the University administration for initiating the study 
conducted by this Task Force. The quality of life on our campus is 
far from perfect (as, no doubt, is our assessment of it), but the 
genuine interest on the part of so many—administrators, students, 
faculty, and staff—to provide thoughtful response to the issues 
raised herein is the best measure of the merit in conducting this 
study. As with so many previous ventures of a different kind, the 
sustained effort to improve the quality of life on our campus probably 
will lead us in unforeseen directions. Such is the nature of explora­
tion; but we have gained from it in the past, and we shall again in the 
future.
Task Force on Quality of Life
William Elliott - Chair 
Patrick Keating 
Brad Walter 
Norman Johnson 
Steve Fienberg 
Ted Fenton 
Tony Martin 
Barbara Lazarus 
Granger Morgan 
Mark Kamlet 
Eric Wittle 
Lisa McAnany 
Dan Corbett
Paul Christiano - Co-Chair
Earl Birdy
William Arms
James Williams
Rick Lau
David Maloney
Jim Miller
Herbert Olds
Gregg Berkowitz
John Friedmann
David Zubrow
Jeffrey Bolton
Patrick Keating
Intellectual Opportunities/Challenges
Granger Morgan, Chairperson
Alex Bally
Greg Berkowitz
Alfred Blumstein
Natalie Capone
Preston Covey
Roger Dannenberg
Robert Feller
Edwin Fenton
Don Hale
Harry Holland 
Richard Lau 
Paul Martin 
Thomas Michalak 
Akram Midani 
John Modell 
Herbert Olds 
Elizabeth Orion 
Todd Rockoff 
Robert Sekerka
Support Services. Programs, and Facilities
William Arms, Chairperson
Alvin Brannick
Dan Corbett
Lois Cox
John Friedmann
Andrew Gillespie
Gloria Hill
Robert Kail
Edward Lilley
David Maloney 
Oscar Mayer 
Keith Moore 
Donna Morosky 
Michael Murphy 
Barbara Nanzig 
Lorrie Rabin 
James Williams 
Kate Woomer
• number and types of activities and organizations available, 
and rate of student participation, again measured over time and 
comparatively.

---------------------------------------------------

Diversity of University Population
Norman Johnson, Chairperson
Ronald Campana
Robyn Dawes
Joseph Devine
Steve Fienberg
Eric Horn
Rochelle Hopson
Angel Jordan
Barbara Lazarus 
John Lehoczky 
Lisa McAnany 
James Miller 
Thomas Neudecker 
Fred Rogers 
Stuart Staley 
Michael Steidel
Organization for Student Quality of Life
Mark Kamlet, Chairperson 
James Banner 
Earl Birdy 
Jay Carson 
David Dalessandro 
Gwendolyn Franklin 
Nico Habermann 
James Hoburg 
Anthony Martin
Philip Miller 
Dennis Ryan 
Lee Sproull 
Peter Steams 
Braden Walter 
Leslie Williams 
William Williams 
Anne Witchner 
Eric Wittle
TO: President Cyert, Provost Jordan, Deans Bailey, Blumstein, 
Fienberg, Midani, Sekerka, Williams, J. Devine, R. Kail,
Dr. Habermann,
Vice Presidents Arms, Brannick, Elliott, Moore, Rogers; 
Assoc. V.P.s N. Johnson, P. Covey; D. Maloney, J. Carson,
J. Miller, J. Bolton, B. Nanzig, T. Neudecker;
Dept. Heads — O. Aiken, J.L. Anderson, A. Bally, M. Bernstein, 
R. Birge, P. Christiano, R.Dawes, S. Director, C. Glymour,
S. Henry, D. Klahr, J.P. Lehoczky, G. Morgan, E. Orion,
G. Sinclair, P. Steams, J. Thome, G. Waller, W. Williams,
O. Winsand
Dean Walter, L. Cox, A. Witchner, L. Rabin, E. Lilly, T. Martin,
O.Mayer, D. Morosky, G. Hill 
Athletic Dir. Banner, E. Birdy,
Professors S. Kiesler, L. Sproull, M. Clark, T. Fenton; D. Zubrow 
Student Particpants: Todd Rockoff, Eric Wittle, Dan Corbett, 
G. Berkowitz, J. Friedmann, P. Martin, PSAC nominees
FROM: J. P. Crecine, Sr. V.P. for Academic Affairs 
P. J. Keating, Director, University Planning
SUBJECT: Seminar, Task Force on Student Quality of Life
Seminar: April 21, 1987 from 3 pm. - 9 pm. (including 
dinner), Adamson Wing (Baker Hall)
We are writing to invite you to a seminar which focuses on the 
quality of undergraduate student life at Carnegie Mellon. It will be 
held on Tuesday, April 21 in the Adamson Wing (Baker Hall), from 
3 pm - 9 pm, including dinner. The seminar is designed to inform, 
guide and kick-off a task force effort on the subject. The Task Force 
will conduct a thorough study of the issue and formulate recom­
mendations to the university. The study and recommendations 
will comprise an important part of the agenda for the Board of 
Trustees Strategic Planning Meeting at the Greenbriar next Octo­
ber.
It is clear that the primary missions of the university relate to the 
production and dissemination of knowledge. These two, primary 
university missions are generally equated with two primary sets of 
activities — research, scholarship, and artistic activities on the one 
hand, and education and teaching on the other. It is clear that even 
a mediocre university must attend to far more than those things 
that are directly related to education and research in order to be 
successful as a university. There are a range of academic support
services (i.e., libraries, computing, academic advising), physical 
support services (i.e., housing, dining, grounds and maintenance), 
and business activities (i.e., payroll, accounting, purchasing) theft 
directly support the primary missions of a university. Yet a univer­
sity that only undertook operations that contribute directly to 
research or education would be a grim place indeed and would never 
become a great institution. Something more is needed to sustain 
students, faculty, and staff in a great university. For want of a better 
term, this “something more” is often referred to as the “quality of life” 
factors in an institution. 1%
The “quality of life” issue is present in all organizations and all 
universities. At Carnegie Mellon, the issue has been more latent 
than active until relatively recently.
While we believe “quality of life” issues for students, faculty, and * 
staff have important differences, there are also profound similari­
ties. By attending to student quality of life issues, we believe the 
university goes a long way toward dealing with faculty and staff 
quality of life issues as well. Consequently we are focusing first on 
student quality of life issues, primarily undergraduate students; 
again, we believe there is substantial overlap between the issues 
affecting graduate students and those affecting undergraduates.
Our approach is to have a comprehensive discussion of the variou.) 
aspects of the quality of life issue during an afternoon-evening 
seminar on April 21, 1987, from 3-9pm. Using the seminar as a 
guide, we plan to gather some empirical evidence concerning quality 
of life issues at Carnegie Mellon, rather than rely exclusively on 
anecdotes and impressions (by definition, anecdotes, impressions, 
and perceptions are an important part of the quality of life issue). 
We intend to appoint a task force, composed of students, faculty, and 
administration to better comprehend the quality of life issue at1 
Carnegie Mellon, to assess our position as a university on various 
dimensions of the issue, and to make recommendations to the 
university in the form of a comprehensive written report to be 
submitted in early October of1987. We want the Task Force results 
to form an important part of the university’s agenda during the 
Board of Trustees meeting at the Greenbriar, October 25-26,1987.
. it
In structuring the seminar, we want to view the issue from a 
student’s standpoint, initially. We are interested, fundamentally, in 
how students spend their time at the university, and in how the 
university environment conditions those choices. The single most 
important determinant of activity choices is the overall academic 
workload faced by a student. At least as a first approximation, most 
students respond to academic pressures first and then worry about 
the allocation of the remainder of their time to other things. Does * 
CMU’s workload squeeze out non-academic activities? (We hope it 
does, to some degree! ) Is there enough time left for students to 
develop adequately in non-academic areas? Can one lead a reasona­
bly balanced life while attending (or working at) Carnegie Mellon? 
How do our students compare in aggregate time allocation and 
academic workloads with students at institutions of comparable 
academic quality? %
How do students spend the remainder of their time? Again, as a 
first approximation, it will depend on the opportunities that are 
conveniently available at Carnegie Mellon and in the immediate . 
area. Few Carnegie Mellon students go sailing, not because some 
wouldn’t like to, but because of time, weather, water, boats, ground 
transportation —the opportunities are lacking. Few students work 
at the university television station because we do not have one — * 
some universities do. Do we have an appropriate mix of opportuni­
ties? Is it broad enough and rich enough? What can we do about the 
overall environment?
What is the ambiance or tone of the campus? Is there adequate 
contact between students and faculty in and out of the classroom? Is 
the campus an intellectually and culturally stimulating place? Are* 
the opportunities for broad intellectual and cultural development 
present, and are they taken advantage of?
What can the university do to improve the quality of life for 
undergraduate students? Is the answer lighter workloads so that 
students can develop a more balanced existence? Do we need more 
facilities for student activities? Do we need more extra-curricular

---------------------------------------------------

programs and clubs? Do we need more athletic and recreational 
facilities? Do we need a massive change in the overall university 
culture so that people are less aggressive/uptight/defensive/un­
happy etc. or so that faculty begin to see students as interesting 
people, interesting enough to deal with outside of formal classroom 
situations? Do we need a more diverse/interesting set of students? 
Faculty? Administrators?
The key overall questions relate to aggregate time pressures, 
facilities, programs, and attitudes or social culture.
We would like to have a general discussion, touching on these key, 
overall issues. This would last about 2 hours. Then we would like 
to split up into five smaller discussion groups, each dealing in 
somewhat greater depth with the topics listed below. The objective 
of each discussion group would be to provide guidance to the task 
C force — what are the key questions? how do conditions at CMU 
differ from those at comparable universities, and are those differ­
ences ones that we desire? what are people’s hunches regarding the 
answers to the key questions and comparisons? What hard data 
could be collect to verify hunches? What are university options — 
what can we do about it? We see the discussions going for 2 hours, 
including a social hour and dinner where each of the discussion 
groups would report back to the full group. The subcommittees and 
topics covering the major issue areas include:
1. INTELLECTUAL OPPORTUNITIES / CHALLENGES:
Student Workloads—Time Allocation 
Educational vs. Extra-curricular Activities 
Student-Faculty Contact:
Teaching strategies — faculty vs. grad, students 
T Classroom/outside of classroom
Ambiance
Speakers/general lectures 
Public affairs “events”
Fine and performing arts (CFA, Carnegie Institute) 
University-wide intellectual activities
2. SUPPORT SERVICES, PROGRAMS AND FACILITIES:
Essential Services
Housing/Dining(resident life programs)
Health and Counseling 
Student Extra-curricular activities
Student organizations (diversity, participation) 
Intramural athletics/intercollegiate athletiic 
Leisure/recreation 
( Religious Opportunities
Student Social activities
Fraternities and sororities (participation)
Other
Facilities
Classrooms/Housing/Recreation/Fields
3. DIVERSITY OF UNIVERSITY POPULATION:
Socio-economic backgrounds 
Gender/Racial 
Cultural and nationality 
Support Programs and Services
4. ORGANIZATION FOR STUDENT QUALITY OF LIFE — 
STRUCTURAL ISSUES:
Student Activities (Student Affairs) and 
Residence Life (Housing)
Life Cycle of Student Services
(Admissions, Student Affairs, Athletics,
Alumni Relations)
Management of University Center
(Student Activities, Auxiliary Services,
Athletics and Recreation)
Financing of “Non-essential” Student Services
Attached is the agenda for the April 21 seminar. Please contagf 
the Planning Office (Barb Bowen - ext. 2123) as soon a« 
possible to indicate whether you will be able to attend thin 
seminar. Prior to the seminar the task force and chairpersons of the 
subcommittees will be appointed.
AGENDA 
Seminar — Task Force on Student Quality of Life 
April 21,1987 
Adamson Wing - Baker Hall
1. Introduction — Student Life Opportunities / 
Challenges (J. Crecine)
2. Background Information — (P. Keating)
Student Demographics/Trends/Profiles 
Student Perceptions/Attitudes
Future Investigation
3. Roles and Responsibilities of the Task Force/ 
Subcommittees (J. Crecine)
4. Social Hour and Dinner— Subcommitee 
Discussions
Intellectual Opportunities/Challenges 
Support Services, Programs, Facilities 
Diversity of Student Population 
Organization for Student Quality of Life
5. Subcommittee Presentations/Initial Reports of 
Future Inquiry
6. Summary — Task Force Charge (R. Cyert)
This report and discussion comprising the remaining 2 hours of 
the seminar, will serve as the foundation for further inquiry and the 
setting of future direction for the Task Force.
C

---------------------------------------------------

N*406 — 51% Response Rate
CMU STUDENT SURVEY
This survey is part of a larger project designed to understand the experiences and 
perceptions of students here at Carnegie Mellon. Your responses to the following questions will 
help us obtain a student's view of life on campus. The questions cover a broad range of topics, not 
just academics. Please take a few minutes now to complete the questionnaire, answering every 
question. Be assured that your responses will be kept confidential. Thank you for your 
participation.
L Background Information 
Class: Fr [27%] Soph [27%J Jr[25%] Sr[21%J
College: CFA (12%] CTT [25%] H&SS [22%] IM [16%] 
Se* F [53%] M [47%] Citizenship: US [95%]
MCS [25%] 
Other [5%]
Race: American Indian or Alaska Native [0%] Asian or Pacific Islander [11%]
Blade [18%] Hispanic [1% ] White Other Than Hispanic [70%]
IL Attitudes and Perceptions of other Students on Campus
The questions in this section ask about vour perceptions of what the majority of students at 
CMU do or the way they feel. Please circle the most appropriate number on the scale 
following each question.
(Average)
1. There is a feeling of unity among students on campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6
Í3-4) (9%) (20%) (30%) (16%) (18%) (6%)
7(0%)
Strongly Agree
2. Students in my college can "drop in" on faculty members without an appointment
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(*•5) (4%) (5%) (17%) (22%) (23%) (21%) (8%)
3. Students at CMU are not racist
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
«.*) (3%) (8%) (17%) (26%) (21%) (19%) (7%)
4. Students are not usually willing to take time out to socialize.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
<3.3) (10%) (28%) (24%) (10%) (16%) (12%) (1%)
5. Students at CMU are not concerned with helping and supporting one another.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
<3.4) (8%) (23%) (29%) (15%) (16%) (6%) (2%)
6. Students often find out too late about events that they would have attended.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
<*•*) (0%) (8%) (10%) (18%) (24%) (25%) (16%)
7. Most students cheat on exams, labs, papers, .r/ homework assignments sometime during
their college career.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 * 6 7 Strongly Agree
&6) (7%) (16%) (8%) (14%) (18%) (18%) (20%)
(5.5)
(1.7)
(4.0)
(4.9)
(4.8)
(3.1)
(43)
(4.2)
(4.8)
(43)
a»)
(3.4)
8. Drinking alcohol is a common way for students to relax.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(1%) (4%) (5%) (9%) (22%) (32%) (27%)
9. Students at CMU hardly ever seem to study.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(58%) (27%) (7%) (5%) (1%) (1%) (1%)
10. Students talk a lot about political and social issues.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (15%) (19%) (20%) (24%) (15%) (2%)
11. The workload at CMU prevents students from attending on-campus events.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(2%) (7%) (14%) (11%) (26%) (26%) (14%)
12. Very few things arouse much excitement or interest among all students here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (7%) (14%) (12%) (22%) (25%) (16%)
13. Students are so cutthroat about grades that they rarely help each other understand
and learn difficult material.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(16%) (28%) (23%) (9%) (16%) (8%) (1%)
14. Students tend to hide their feelings from one another.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (9%) (17%) (22%) (28%) (17%) (5%)
15. Students are too serious here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (13%) (18%) (20%) (19%) (19%) (7%)
16. Nearly everyone here tries to go out with friends on weekends.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(1%) (8%) (12%) (18%) (21%) (23%) (16%)
17. There is a good deal of concern about intellectual awareness among students on this
campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (11%) (14%) (22%) (25%) (15%) (8%)
18. CMU students party a lot
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(10%) (15%) (16%) (23%) (19%) (14%) (4%)
19. There is a strong feeling of belonging here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(13%) (20%) (22%) (17%) (18%) (8%) (2%)
20. Students fed the faculty are interested in them.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(3.8) (9%) (12%) (25%) (19%) (23%) (9%) (3%)
21. Students tend not to compete with each other.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(2.6) (28%) (28%) (24%) (7%) (8%) (5%) (1%)
22. Students worry about being sexually assaulted when they go out socially.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7OM (19%) (26%) (17%) (20%) (14%) (3%) (1%)
23. Students are generally satisfied with their education.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
<4J) (3%) (7%) (18%) (14%) (27%) (24%) (8%)
24. Students rarely discuss intellectual matters.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(2J) (18%) 02%) (23%) 02%) (8%) (6%) (1%)
25. Students feel the university administration is inflexible.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6
(4.9) (3%) (7%) (10%) (17%) (23%) (23%) (17%)
Strongly Agree
Strongly Agree
Strongly Agree
(4.1)
(4.1)
(3.4)
(4.7)
(3.5)
(3.0)
(3.6)
(3.2)
(2.8)
(5.2)
(2.9)
(3.4)
(4.8)
(3.5)
(4.1)
(5.9)
(5.0)
(44)
26. Students try to make others feel secure.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(3%) (11%) (15%) (35%) (20%) (12%) (4%)
Strongly Agree
27. Students take advantage of extra-curricular opportunities which are available 
outside the classroom.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(2%) (15%) (21%) (16%) (26%) (16%) (4%)
28. Dating is not important on this campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(12%) (21%) (20%) (21%) (13%) (11%) (3%)
29. Students at CMU are always trying to win an argument
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(1%) (5%) (12%) (21%) (32%) (20%) (9%)
30. There is not much appreciation for classical music, art, literature, and other fine arts 
on this campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(18%) (24%) (13%) (8%) (18%) (13%) (6%)
31. The only fun thing to do on weekends is to attend fraternity parties.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(37%) (17%) (10%) (7%) (11%) (10%) (8%)
32. Understanding the feelings of others is not considered important by students.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(6%) (22%) (21%) (25%) (15%) (10%) (2%)
33. There are plenty of nice places to socialize on campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(21%) (24%) (18%) (11%) (11%) (12%) (3%)
34. Students find it easy to resolve university-related problems (e.g., student records, 
financial).
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(23%) (28%) (15%) (17%) (11%) (4%) (2%)
35. Students try solve their own problems by themselves.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(1%) (3%) (5%) (13%) (36%) (32%) (10%)
36. Students have a voice in how the university is run.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(17%) (27%) (25%) (18%) (11%) (3%) (0%)
37. Taking drugs, other dun alcohol, is a common leisure activity.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(12%) (23%) (18%) (21%) (17%) (5%) (3%)
38. Students believe faculty care more about research than about teaching.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (3%) (15%) (21%) (21%) (22%) (15%)
39. Most students have a strong sense of loyalty to CMU.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(14%) (19%) (17%) (19%) (17%) (10%) (4%)
40. "Date Rape" is not a problem on campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(6%) (8%) (19%) (34%) (15%) (11%) (8%)
41. Students work hard to get top grades.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(0%) (2%) (2%) (4%) (19%) (39%) (33%)
42. Students do not need to drink alcohol or take drugs in order to have fun.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (7%) (14%) (13%) (12%) (17%) (33%)
43. Students at CMU do not take advantage of intellectual opportunities which are 
available outside the classroom.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (6%) (19%) (21%) (27%) (19%) (5%)
HL Academic Dimensions
Based on vour experiences, rate each of the following academic dimensions on the scale provided.
Very Poor
Student/Faculty Ratio 
Variety of Majors 
Preparation for Grad School 
Admissions Standards 
Diversity of Student Body
2 3
(Average )
7 Very Good 
(Average)
_£5Teaching Quality5-9
4.7Balanced Education4.2
5.3Career Preparation5-6
5.0Social Atmosphere3.5
Extra-curric. Activities3,9
IV. Facilities and Services
Based on vour experiences, rate each of the following facilities or services on the scale provided.
Very Poor 12 34 5 67Very Good (0= Never Used) ^
(excluding never used responses)
(Average )(Average )(Average )
Libraries_L2Campus Grounds_5¿Dormitories_L6
Computing Facilities_5JParking1.6Counseling4.2
Laboratories_A2Social Areas_LiStudios_3L9
Dining Facilities_L3Book StoreSecurity4.8
ClassroomsLaundry_LfiStudent Activities_L2
Gymnasium_L3Health Services_L2Skibo3.8
Outdoor Playing Fields_3u2Vending1,4Computer Store—LÂ
Entropy_L5Art Store_L6Coop Store5.0
Dorm lounges_JLÉMeeting Rooms_UUser Consultants_L2
Food Services_L1Housing Services 42Cashier's Office3.9 #
Registrar_JL1Other (please indicate)
V. Personal Experiences.
Based on vour experiences, rate each of the comments below on the scale provided.
Strongly Agree
(Average)
1. My writing and speaking skills are good.
Strongly Disagree 12 3 4 
(5J2) (0%) (3%) (10%) (14%)
5
(23%)
6
(33%)
7
(17%)
Strongly Agree
Strongly Agree
(3.0)
2. I was not adequately prepared for the academic challenge here at CMU. 
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
(25%) 05%) (16%) (9%) (12%) (10%) (4%)
Strongly Agree <
Strongly Agree
(2.2)
3. I feel I have been discriminated against by faculty members. 
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 
(46%) (26%) (7%) (8%) (6%)
6
(5%)
7
(2%)
Strongly Agree
Strongly Agree
0.1)
4. I would not recommend CMU to a friend or relative. 
Strongly Disagree 12 3 4 
(30%) (20%) (14%) (12%)
5
(10%)
6
(7%)
7
(8%)
Strongly Agree
Strongly Agree
(5.9)
5. I fed safe in my place of residence.
Strongly Disagree 12 3 4 
(0%) (3%) (3%) (6%)
5
(14%)
6
(39%)
7
06%)
Strongly Agree ^

---------------------------------------------------

05)
(43)
(4.0)
4M>
(3.9) 
(53) 
f.3)
(3.9)
(5.5) 
^.7)
(5.8)
(5.2)
(4.6)
(4.2)
(4.0)
Q
(4.5)
(5.0)
(4.5)
0
(5.0)
(6.5)
(3.7)
(4.5)
(2.9)
(2.5) 
(5.4)
(4.0)
(3.2)V
(3.7)
(4.7)
(2.6)
6. M*-rri*y ~r f-i—It TtiHimlt m ititfrimlnrtiil iptnit in fa rl—11111111
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(31%) (26%) (14%) (16%) (8%) (4%) (2%)
7. Faculty memben are generally not available when I need to see them.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(10%) (25%) (16%) (21%) (18%) (10%) (1%)
8. I receive adequate feedback on my assignments.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (11%) (21%) (15%) (25%) (19%) (6%)
9. In my experience, the faculty work hard to show:
a) an interest in me.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (14%) (19%) (25%) (25%) (11%) (3%)
b) an interest in current events.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(2%) (11%) (15%) (24%) (26%) (18%) (5%)
c) their commitment to die campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (11%) (23%) (29%) (19%) (11%) (3%)
d) enthusiasm for their academic interests.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(2%) (1%) (7%) (12%) (25%) (38%) (16%)
e) that they respect me.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (9%) (14%) (25%) (29%) (15%) (4%)
10. My academic advisor provides good advice.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(13%) (14%) (10%) (28%) (14%) (13%) (8%)
11. I would not hesitate to walk across campus by myself after dark.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (5%) (9%) (3%) (12%) (24%) (42%)
12. I am proud to tell people that I attend CMU.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (2%) (4%) (7%) (18%) (30%) (38%)
13. I am getting a good education.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(2%) (1%) (4%) (6%) (17%) (40%) (31%)
14. Other students don't discriminate against me.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(3%) (6%) (10%) (9%) (15%) (30%) (27%)
15. My experience at CMU has been pretty much as I expected.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(11%) (14%) (18%) (16%) (20%) (14%) (7%)
16. I feel like I belong here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(8%) (8%) (10%) (19%) (20%) (21%) (14%)
17. I am satisfied with my level of participation in extra-curricular activities.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(8%) (14%) (19%) (10%) (15%) (21%) (13%)
18. I find it easy to meet other students here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(8%) (13%) (18%) (20%) (23%) (15%) (5%)
19. People, in general, are friendly on campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agrae
(4%) (6%) (16%) (17%) (32%) (19%) (7%)
20. There are people at CMU with whom I can discuss my problems.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (9%) (6%) (11%) (23%) (27%) (20%)
21. My study skills are good.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (10%) (13%) (14%) (31%) (22%) (7%)
22. My interests have broadened during my time here.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(5%) (5%) (8%) (14%) (25%) (25%) (18%)
23. I feel secure on campus during the day.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(0%) (0%) (2%) (1%) (7%) (26%) (64%)
24. I have to go off-campus to have a good time.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(11%) (18%) (21%) (17%) (15%) (10%) (9%)
25. If I was going to start over again, I would choose to attend Carnegie Mellon.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(10%) (10%) (10%) (17%) (16%) (18%) (19%)
26. I would not feel comfortable discusing my career plans and aspirations with a faculty
member.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agrae
(25%) (25%) (17%) (13%) (11%) (7%) (3%)
27. I do not feel secure on campus during the night
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agrae
(34%) (29%) (14% )(8%) (5%) (6%) (4%)
28. I am proud of the skills and knowledge I have acquired while at CMU.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(1%) (1%) (4%) (14%) (28%) (31%) (21%)
29. I find it difficult to meet with faculty members outside of class.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(4%) (19%) (17%) (21%) (21%) (13%) (5%)
30. When I'm not studying I can’t find anything enjoyable to do on campus.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(16%) (26%) (20%) (12%) (13%) (8%) (5%)
31. My strongest loyalty is to my department, not CMU.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(13%) (16%) (13%) (27%) (13%) (9%) (9%)
32. Carnegie Mellon is an excellent environment for achieving my goals.
Strongly Disagree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strongly Agree
(6%) (2%) (12%) (19%) (25%) (24%) (11%)
VL Stress and Coping
1. The following is a Hst of potential icurces of stress and frustration. Usir^ the scale below, 
indicate how stressful these situations are for you during this semester.
Not at 41 Stressfvl
Being away from home 
Livii^ with a roommate 
Managing my time 
Living in the dty 
Courses and workload 
Other, please specify: __
Voy SI
Making new friends 
Assuming responsibility 
for my affairs 
Managing my money 
Competition for grades
(Average )
_22
3.5 
___Ü
2. How many times have vou experienced the following problems during your time at CMU?
(Awraga£tnden6
Auto Theft ¡01 Other Theft .51
Harassment (other than sexual) .54
Other, please specify: _________________________
Sexual Harassment 
Violence _21AS
Did you report your problem? Yes [39% ] No [ 61% 1 If no, why not?
3. Below are methods which other students have found useful in dealing with stress. Using 
the scale below, indicate how helpful you find each of these methods.
Not at all Helpful 1 2
(exduding never used response«)
Talking with a residence assistant 
Talking with a faculty member 
Calling/writing a friend from home 
Partidpating in study groups 
Talking with a friend at CMU 
Talking with someone from 
the Counseling Center
7 Very Helpful (0= Never Used)
(Average )
_3J
5.6 
4.0
5.6
Talking with a classmate 
Learning to live with it 
Talking with an advisor 
Calling/writing parents 
Joining student organizations 
Solving the problem myself
(Average )
_L£_jLi
_L2
5.0
5.5
VIL CMtl Experiences and Activities 
1. Below are sources for obtaining information about campus activities, events and
organizations. Please indicate how often you consulted each of these sources last week.
Bulletin boards around campus 
Computer bulletin boards 
Student group newsletters 
Distributed leaflets
(Average/Student)
4.7-LI
.65
-12
(Average/Student) 
Tartan 1.6
Friends 8.8
Student Union Paper .61
Faculty members .88
2. How many friends do you have at CMU? m_____9
Of these friends, how many: have a different academic major 66%
are of a different race 27%
3. Have you ever worked with a faculty member on a research project? Yes [11%1 No [89%]
4. During the past week, how many hours did vou spend doing the following activities?
Studying/homework alone 
Studying/homework in a group 
Partidpating in student organizations 
Talking with teachers outside of class 
Exercising, other than intramurals 
Intramural athletic activities 
Watching television with a group 
Watching television alone 
Sleeping
(Average Hours/Student)
_2Q_
(Average Hours/Student)
Working on a computer 
Partying
Doing volunteer work 
Attending classes/labs 
Working for pay 
Hobbies
Socializing with friends 
Reading newspaper/mag 
Intercollegiate athletics
_<1
19
-12
5. Rate yourself on the following traits as compared with average college students your age.
Lowest(10%)
1 2 
.(Average) 
General knowledge 7
Academic ability _7
Drive to achieve 7
Physical health 7
50th 
Percentile 
3 4 5 6
Mathematical ability 
Self-confidence (intellectual) 
Self-confidence (social) 
Problem solving skills
Highest(10%)
7 8 9
(Average ) (Average )
___I Public speaking ____£_Z Popularity ___6
___6 Writing ability ___£
___7 Emotional health ___2.
6. Indicate your team, dub, and organizational memberships:
Distribution by Number of Group«
0 Groups (24%) 2 Groups (21%) 4 Groups (9%)
1 Group (2S%) 3 Groups (14%) >4 Groups (7%)
7. Do you own a computer? Yes [26%] No [74%] If no, how likely is it that you will buy one 
before leaving CMU?
(3.2)
Very Unlikely1 2 
(38%) (14%)
3(8%)
4(8%)
5(12%)6
(9%)
7(12%)
Very Likely
8. How many days did vou engage in each of the following activities during the Spring 1967 
Semester? As points of reference, daily=105 days; 5 days per week=75 days; 3 days per 
week=45 days; 1 day per week=15 days; 1 day per month=4 days. (Average Days/Student)
Used the library as a quiet place to read or study--------------—------------------------
Used the facilities at the Gym nasi um--------_------------------------------------------------ -----.....
Used the outside recreational facilities (e.g., tennis courts, intramural field, track)........
Sat around Skibo talking with other students»------------------------------—-------------
Socialized with a faculty member..........................................................................................
Met with your advisor.......................................................................................................
Attended an art exhibit on campus......—-------—........................................................
Attended a concert or other music event on campus................................................................
Attended a play performed on campus--------------------------------------------------------
Attended a lecture/seminar outside of class.-----------------------------------------------
Attended a program or event sponsored by a student group-----------------------—-------
Attended a meeting of a student organization.....-................................................................
Worked on a special committee or for a special project of a student organization---------
Sought out a friend to help you with a personal problem....................................................
Sought help from a university office for a personal problem........................................
Had serious discussions with students whose personal values are different from yours....
Had serious discussions with students whose political views are different from yours......
Had serious discussions with students whose religious beliefs are different from yours...
Talked with other students late into the night....................................................................
Socialized with students whose race is different from yours----------------------------—
Socialized with students whose academic major is different from yours------------------
Gone off campus for leisure activity_____......— ---------------—— -------------
Stayed up all night to study..................................................................................................
Used electronic mail for class work-------------------------------------------------------------
Used electronic mail for non-dass purposes..........................................................................
— 12
_15
VIIL Comments
1. Please indicate any important aspects of student life at Carnegie Mellon which were not 
induded in this questionnaire.
2. There is a perception that students do not attend on-campus events. Do you agree with this 
perception? Yes [74%] No [26%] If yes, please indicate the reasons students do not 
attend events.
c
