The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 7, October 28, 1980.
$102 million raised in 
investments campaign
In this issue...
News
Carter visits Beaver Falls.........................page 5
Fiuey visits Pittsburgh.............................P«*ge 6
Features
Common Ground on CMU..................p;»ge 10
Entertainment
Stardust Memories reviewed..............I*«gt* I?
''depliant Man comes to screen.........p;‘g<‘ IN
Sports
I artans swim past John Carroll ... page 21
photos by Robert Zusmnn 
Flying football players and torch-bearing 
cheerleaders are just a couple of the events that 
made Homecoming 1980 whet it was. Not only did 
the mighty Tartans beat Case- Western Resen>e 2H- 
7, but there were free frisbees on the cut and 
fireworks over Tech Field after the torchlight 
parade.
Board will be in charge of running the 
upcoming election. The board, composed 
of several members will be responsible for 
setting the rules of the election and oversee­
ing the actual running of the poles. Any 
appeals will be heard by the board.
photo by Robert /.usman
President Carter left amidst cheering crowds after speaking at Beaver Falls during his October 20 insit
by Melody Mazzie
As of Sept. 30, 1980, CMU’s $100 million 
Investments in Progress campaign achieved 
and surpassed its goal. With an amazing 
alumni contribution of 55% of the total, the 
campaign raised $102,929,053. Corpora­
tions and foundations contributed over $38 
million.
According to President Cyert, the cam­
paign committee determined four years ago 
"that an investment of $100 million would 
have to be made if the academic program 
and physical plant of CMU were to meet the 
challenges before us.” The fund drive 
proved to be the largest Pittsburgh ever had.
An alumnus kicked off the campaign 
with an anonymous gift of $35 million, the 
donation of his entire estate. His gift is the 
second largest of its kind ever made to an 
institution of higher learning in the U.S.
One of the campaign goals was to estab­
lish thirty endowed chairs. Over the four 
year campaign, fifteen chairs were created, 
and more are intended to be established dur­
ing the remainder of the decade.
“Another challenge of the .’80’s,” said 
Cyert at a press conference attended by 
Mayor Richard Caliguiri, “is to increase the
number of endowed scholarships for our 
students... It is my intention to make it possi­
ble for any student with the necessary aca- 
demic qualifications to attend 
Camegie-Mellon University regardless of 
family income.”
Other accomplishments of the campaign 
include $1.5 million worth of engineering 
laboratory renovations and purchases for a 
project which is estimated to cost an even­
tual $4 million. The Kresge Foundation and 
the Pew Memorial Trusts awarded the pro­
ject with substantial grants.
In the Biological Sciences Department, 
major laboratory construction has occurred, 
thanks to a gift from an alumnus and the 
Willie Stargell Foundation. These laborato­
ries are currently being used for research on 
cell moulity, cancer, and sickle cell anemia.
The College of Fine Arts received a major 
gift from the A.W. Mellon Educational and 
Charitable Trust, while corporate support 
from Gulf Oil, U.S. Steel, and Westing- 
house made possible the establishment of 
CMU’s new7 Robotics Insutute.
Alumnus John E. Wearingen, chairman 
of Standard Oil of Indiana, chaired the cam- 
con tin tied on page 6
Homecoming ‘80!
Student Senate structure changed
Grad students get own seats
An amendment tc Student Senate’s Byl­
aws insuring graduate student representa­
tion on Senate was approved October 14. 
The amendment calls for a certaiin number 
of undergraduate and graduate representa­
tives to be elected from each college depend­
ing on the number of people in each college.
|& Nina Houska, chairperson of the Consti­
tutional revision committee said the change 
in Senate’s structure w'as necessary' in order 
to clear up misunderstandings which have 
occured in the past between the GSO (Grad­
uate Student Organization) and Senate.
Senate vice-chair Laurie Elm noted that 
graduate students comprised about '4 of the 
student population and that having their 
own seats on Senate will help them over­
come odds of not being known and facing 
election from an undergraduate dominated 
constituency.
GSO representatives said that graduates 
have been reluctant to run for Senate seats in 
the past because* they felt they didn’t stand a 
chance running against undergrads.
As a result of adopting this amendment, 
Senate is now in violation of its own rules. 
For example: There are currently 8 senators 
from CIT, all undergraduates. According to 
the amendment and accurate enrollment 
figures, there should be 10 senators- 3 gradu­
ate students and 7 undergraduates. A similar 
situation exists in H&SS, MCS, and CFA.
Iliese problems, however, should be cor­
rected after the next Senate elections which 
will occur in early November.
As part of the Constitutional revision 
ftort Senate has undertaken, a new Election

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Voting: our most tangible freedom
Campaign ‘80 has been dominated by the 
mudslinging and somewhat depressing race to 
the White House. Presendy this race is too 
close to call; however most people seem to 
agree on the fact that either altemadve is 
dismal, at best. Many prospective voters are so 
disillusioned with the presidential election 
that they are deciding not to vote at all: why 
vote if neither altemadve is a good one?
While The Tartan will not argue about the 
disappointing men our nauon has chosen to 
vie for our highest office, we will disagree with
those who claim that vodng in this elecdon is a 
waste of dme. In a Presidendal elecdon year it 
is easy to forget, or underesdmate the 
importance of, the state and local elections that 
are occuring nationwide. If the alternatives for 
President are poor, the importance of good 
local and state officials is doubly important: a 
strong, representative legislative body can go a 
long way to satisfy the needs of the public. If 
for no other reason, your vote is essential to 
insure that competent people are elected to 
these areas of our government.
But there are other reasons to vote in this,
and every, election. Voting is the most tangible 
freedom we have in this country. It is a 
constant reminder of our role in our own 
government and it is the best way we have to 
voice our opinions on various issues. There are 
questions to be decided where your opinion is 
important--your vote on the many 
referendums nationwide is essential for your 
future and the future of our country.
Not excercising your vote does not prove 
disillusiQnment, but rather disinterest. And if 
we lose our interest in our government, we can 
no longer be a democracy
Republican gains in Congress will be modest
For months we’ve been hearing serious 
talk from knowledgable people in Washing­
ton about the possibility of the Republicans 
gaining control of the U.S. Senate in Janu­
ary. Senate Democrats currently outnumber 
Republicans, 59-41. The G.O.P. needs to 
pick up nine seats plus a Reagan-Bush vic­
tory (the v-p serves as a tie-breaker in deter­
mining the majority party) or 10 seats 
outright to take control of all Senate leader- 
ship positions and committee 
chairmanships.
The chances for a G.O.P. controlled 
Senate have actually dwindled since this 
summer, however. Reports from the home 
states of those incumbent Democrats who 
are targeted by the Republican National 
Committee as “vulnerable” have been dis­
couraging. George McGovern has come 
back from a 25 point deficit in South Dakota 
and is now almost even with his Republican 
opponent, Rep. James Abdnor. Iowa Demo­
crat John Culver, once 18 points behind in 
the polls, is now dead even with Rep. Cha­
rles Grassley. Powerful Foreign Relations 
Committee Chairman Frank Church is now 
calling in all of his political I.O.U.’s col­
lected during his 24 years in the Senate and is 
holding onto a slim lead over arc- 
conservative congressman Steve Symms. 
Indiana Republican Dan Quayle broke out 
to an early lead in August and September
while incumbant Birch Bayh was back in 
Washington heading the special committee 
investigating the Billy Carter/Libya affair. 
But Bayh is a very strong campaigner and 
has regained a comfortable lead over Quayle 
since hitting the campaign trail.
Bill
Kapner
•*
1
Of the twenty-one Senate Democrats up 
for re-election, many, including the four 
already mentioned, are liberals running in 
conservative states. The R.N.C. is banking 
on a nation-wide surge of conservatism to 
help defeat these vunerable Democrats. In 
addition, the Republican war chest, con­
trolled by Pennsylvania Senator John 
Heinz, chairman of the Replublican Sena­
torial Committee, is overflowing with con­
tributions. The largest sums have been 
given to Republican candidates with the 
best chances of defeating incumbent Demo­
crats and those involved in tight races. The 
Democrats also make funds avaliable to 
their candidates, but the Democratic
National Senate Committee will contribute 
far less then the 6 million that their Republi­
can counterpart will spend. Here in Pen­
nsylvania, for instance, where one of the 
tightest Senate races in the country is being 
fought, Democratic nominee Peter Flaherty 
has received slightly over $15,000 from the 
National Democratic Committee while his 
opponent, Arlen Specter, has collected over 
$500,000 from the Republicans. There are 
also many conservative group», including 
evangelical organizations, which are mobil­
izing and contributing large sums of money 
and manpower to the Republican 
candidates.
The Republicans are hoping that these 
factors will offset the incumbancy advan­
tage in many of the races involving targeted 
“vulnerable” Democratic candidates. But 
the incumbancy factor is very strong indeed. 
Name recognition, years of free media expo­
sure, and constituent services all give the 
incumbant a built-in advantage. For exam­
ple, while George McGovern may be totally 
out of sync with the prevailing political ¦ 
ideology in South Dakota, he has a long­
standing reputation for being a true friend 
of the farmer, as reflected by his near perfect 
rating from the National Farmers Unions, 
and can use his influence in future situa­
tions. South Dakota voters will remember 
this when they go to the polls. For this
John B. AndersonWill Anybody vote for the independent?
The great debate has finally arrived. 
Tonight, one week before the toss of the big 
presidential coin, America will get to see her 
two peace-loving candidates in hand-to- 
hand rhetorical combat. Perhaps this would 
be a good time to evaluate the progress and 
significance of Independent candidate John
B. Anderson. Although the probability of 
Anderson being elected president is some­
what less than nil, his candidacy is certainly 
worth a few comments.
Bob 
Leigh t\
One ot Anderson’s strongest appeals has 
been that he is not Jimmy Carter or Ronald 
Reagan. While this is certainly a positive 
quality, it has not proved adequate for 
maintaining Anderson as a viable 
candidate.
The major reasons behind Anderson’s 
lack of support seem to be insufficient cam­
paign funds and organization, low public 
awareness of his policies and no real politi­
cal base (i.e. structured party.) While these 
problems are faced by all minor party candi­
dates, the question arises as to whether And­
erson deserves greater support for being 
himself and not just an alternative to poor 
Democratic and Republican candidates.
Contrary' to popular political propo- 
ganda, Anderson does possess some 
national experience for the presidency, hav­
ing served two decades in Congress with 
specialty work in foreign affairs, energy’ and 
other areas. It is noteworthy that while suc­
cess in Congress requires the political skill 
of compromise, Anderson is famous for his 
outspoken beliefs, often unpopular stands 
on emotional issues.
Much of Anderson’s appeal comes from 
his candor and ability to explain his view s in 
a deep and intelligent manner. Anderson’s 
statements and platform are much more 
refreshing than the mindless political mud­
slinging furnished by Carter and Reagan.
Anderson is a candidate who has learned 
from America’s mistakes; he generally 
avoids simple rhetorical promise's for more 
comprehensive and meaningful solutions. 
One example of the “Anderson difference” 
ot tuned during one of the Republican 
debates during the primaries. When the can­
didates were asked if they regretted any deci­
sion from earlier in their political careers, 
most babbled typical political generalities. 
Anderson thought for a moment, then told 
how lit* came to regret his vote foi theTon-
kin Gulf Resolution in 1964. This resolu­
tion was hastily passed and led America into 
the Vietnam War; Congress later recognized 
its tragic error and rescinded the resolution.
Anderson’s gradual shift from the politi­
cal far right to center or left reflects his cur­
rent position as a social liberal, defense 
moderate and fiscal conservative. He sees the 
value in social and defense programs, but 
also the necessity of streamlining them to 
stabilize an erratic economy.
Anderson opposes tax cuts which would 
be inflationary during the present economic 
recovery; Anderson opposes incredibly 
expensive defense projects (e.g. MX missile) 
which would be obsolete soon after comple­
tion. Instead of these primarily political pro­
grams, Anderson and his platform give 
fairly specific proposals designed to increase 
business productivity while lowering infla­
tion and increase military preparedness 
while lowering the probability of a reckless 
new arms race.
While Anderson has an overall vastly 
superior (i.e. more intelligent) political 
approach to America’s problems, he also 
has some very disturbing peculiarties.
The most glaring example is Anderson’s 
fifty cent per gallon gasoline tax, the heart of 
his energy' and Social Security policies. He 
suggests that his tax will stimulate energy 
conservation while bailing Social Security 
out of its financial problems. Political sup- 
con tinned on page 3
reason, plus the fact that Democratic candi­
dates are gaining momentum in races where 
there is no incumbent, the Republican gains 
in the Senate will be modest this year.
The Pennsylvania Senate race is expected 
to be one of the most hotly contested in the 
nation. Democrat Pete Flaherty, the ex­
mayor of Pittsburgh, has a strong following 
in Western Pennsylvania. Republican Arlen 
Specter, an ex-district attorney in Philadel­
phia, is popular in the East. The candidates 
differ very litde on the issue; Flaherty is k 
conservative for a Democrat and Specter lib­
eral for a Republican. Both are respected as 
honest and hard working. Both are also per­
petual losers. Flaherty lost his bid to unseat 
Senator Richard Schweiker, whose vacated 
seat he is vying for this year, in 1974 and lost 
by a narrow margin to Dick Thornburgh in 
the gubernatorial race in 1978. Specter lost 
in a Philadelphia mayoral bid in 1967, the 
Republican senatorial primary in 1974 and 
the gubernatorial primary in 1978. Specter 
has substantially more money to spend than 
Flaherty and he has a superior organization. 
These are the factors that should make the 
¦difference.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in 
Professional Writing and History.
The Tartan
Ediior-in-Chicf: Susan Borg 
Managing Edilor: Dong Kirsop 
Business Manager: Karen Slovens
Production Manager: Boli Ilari 
Dossier Edilor: l.ynn hpMciii 
Photography Edilor: Kohc-rt /iiMuaii 
An Direc tors: (‘laig Olio, l oin 
Wrmklr
News Editor: Jim Balsom 
Feaiures Editor: Rrncr Roscnfcid 
Entertainment Editor: Ri« hard C»orciic k 
Sporis Edilor: NVs Sccicx
Edilorial Assistali!: Boi» I .cigliIv 
Associale News Edilor: Jeanne Abinati 
Assisiaiil News Edilors: Alice A Homi .<• loti Zuii
t.nfnì mhl ' l'isti b\ I hr I orlon. I In- t «Inni i.tl l>< >.ml icmuii (Ih i ii*Iii lo u iiIh ili I III mi | mitili .unni ,m\ < <>|>\ 11 ili mi' 
imlii Ini |>nl>lli.iiii>ii. I iiihIi iI ni |>.iit l>\ iIk sitali ih C.m< mim ili ni ( «itiii gii -Mt'IliMi I mw ism. I'ìiinIxiikIi 
I'iIHI" l\ .llli.i l.Mi 1.1. l'ilici N l.il Oliti rv Skllm 'MI. i I l'Ji l I I ni 21 I IT. ItiiMiii nnC MI it rv Skilm "ili. i 11'_* i 1 I l. li I lini II 
|ilmiM . i ir.fi '»7H-LM 11 All rrviMil.

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters
Reagan Rebuff 
Editor
Bob Leighty’s article on Gov. Reagan 
shows the world some of the more common 
misconceptions that surround my candi­
date. As President, Gov. Reagan will streng­
then the Social Security system in order to 
insure that older Americans need never 
worry about the survival of the system.
Ronald Reagan will act to change the tax 
structure in order to remove many of the 
costly bureaucratic regulations. The Kemp- 
Roth tax proposal has been studied and no 
concrete evidence has surfaced to show that' 
it will be inflationary.
Ronald Reagan has pledged to place a 
woman on the Supreme Court. No other 
candidate has dared to make such an offer. 
Ronald Reagan supports equal rights and 
opportunities for women. Governor Rea­
gan opposes taking away the traditional 
rights women have enjoyed such as exemp­
tion from the military draft. Ronald Reagan 
demands vigorous enforcement of civil 
rights laws intended to assure equal treat­
ment in job recruitment, hiring, promo­
tions, pay, credit, mortgage access and 
housing.
Ronald Reagan opposed the Panama 
Canal Treaty together with some thirty 
eight Senators. What benefits has the United 
States gained from the Treaty?
Mr. Leighty claims the U.S. was not pre­
pared for Reagan’s proposed blockade of 
Cuba. Why wasn’t the U.S. prepared? Gov­
ernor Reagan wants to restore America’s 
military strength, because an America that 
enjoys a margin of safety in its military pre­
paredness is an America with the greatest 
chance of peace—the strong peace that 
would always be at the heart of Ronald Rea­
gan’s foreign policy. Governor Reagan does 
not stand for SALT II for it is an unfair 
treaty allowing the Soviets an overwhelm­
ing advantage. He does not want Nuclear 
war or an arms race. Governor Reagan does 
not support the peacetime draft.
LET’S MAKE AMERICA GREAT 
AGAIN!!!!
Andrew Stahl CMU Reagan 
Campus Coordinator
No Punk in Portland
Editor:
In response to the article of Mr. Bob 
Brenner (Tartan Sept. 30 issue), I have sev­
eral points to make.
I am a lifetime resident of the city of Por­
tland, Oregon (pronounced “ORY-GUN”).
continued from page 2
port for his proposal is nonexistent since it is 
an illogical and unworkable idea.
Two problems as complex and serious as 
these can’t be simply tied together as Ander­
son naively suggests. Our energy problems 
will be solvetl only through a massive 
business-govemment coalition (e.g. syn­
thetic fuels) which discovers new technol­
ogy and refines existing production 
methods. Our Social Security problems will 
lx* solved only when it is recognized that 
Social Security is not a pension plan and it 
must be refined to meet the needs of a 
smaller work force and larger retired popu- 
lation. Anderson’s lax would not collect 
these problems, only create new one s.
Anothei worrisome asjxct about Ander­
son is his still untested ability to manage a 
large organization (i.e. our massive federal 
government.) To have ideas is not gexxl 
e nough; one must lx- able to cany them out. 
Anckise Thh may have this ability , but it hasn’t
I think I am more qualified than Mr. 
Brenner to make remarks and quips about 
my hometown. Mr. Brenner says that Punk 
music is a visible and active part of Portland 
music and politics. Let me remind Mr. 
Brenner that NO Portland radio stations 
feature a Punk format or even a Punk music 
show. Punk is a sub-culture in almost every 
dty of major size in this nation, including 
Portland. PorUanders pride themselves in 
having the nation’s most livable city (See 
Time article about 2 years bade.) We also 
pride ourselves with diversity. It is my con­
tention that punk rock in Portland is only a 
small part of the music spectrum. I guess 
that Mr. Brenner did not even notice the 
acclaimed Oregon Symphony Orchestra or 
the Pordand Opera. Mr. Brenner also passed 
up an opportunity to go to one of the many 
taverns such as the Euphoria or The Earth 
which showcase the best in Jazz, local and 
otherwise.
May I also remind Mr. Brenner of the 
renovation projects and transient assistance 
work being done in Pordand’s historic “Old 
Town” district. Mr. Brenner may not have 
seen that Portland has no alleyways (a terri­
ble waste of space), or at least a predous few, 
for the transients to sleep in. They must be 
visible because of this. Mr. Brenner evidendy 
does not know that only three major dties in 
the US have true, authentic cobblestone 
streets with stones from Europe. Our new 
brickwork is not imitation, it is real brick. If 
Mr. Brenner has ever been to Paris, France, 
he would also see similar brickwork on the 
sidewalks as well as true cobblework in the 
streets. By the way our lamp posts are not 
imitation because they’ve been there for 
nearly a century.
In short, Mr. Brenner, please keep your 
thoughts on music to your own hometown. 
I bet you’d find a lot of PUNK in your dty, 
maybe even some JAZZ but that’s right, your 
hometown isn’t called the jazz dty of the 
netherworld for nothing.
Frankly Mr. Brenner, don’t even bother to 
go to Portland next summer.
Philip Mason
CIT freshman
Hooray For Gobbledygook 
Editor:
Cheers for Mr. Tanzer’s letter decrying the 
nascent, supercilious attitude which The 
Tartan has taken toward the letters received. 
The letters have always been the most 
worthwhile portion of the paper. The editor 
first attempts to justify this policy by stating 
that it must “...withhold all material that is 
libelous or involves the paper in breaking 
the law.” This is, of course, only right. But 
in what dispensation has the editor been 
granted the infinite wisdom to dedde that
been revealed due to his lack of management 
experience. The 1980’s don’t appear to be 
good years for on-the-job training, espe­
cially for managing federal government to 
pursue national interests.
A related concern over Anderson’s govern­
ing abilities is with his political base1—he 
doesn’t have one. Anderson stresses his 
desire for a coalition government; certainly 
he would need one if elected. Howev er, And-' 
erson as president would be1 a political out­
sider without a party. Jimmy Carter (and 
America) is learning the hard way that a 
Washington outsider as president has diffi­
culty getting work done—it would be even 
worse* without some jxirty sup|x>rt. Carter 
has one opposition jxirty; Anderson would 
have two.
Even in an era of |x>litical indejxndenev, 
the major jiaities are vital and jxmerful 
government forces. Could John Anderson 
get ccM)|xration fiom a two party C/ingress? 
No one knows the answer.
which is not “...condse and to the point.” or 
becomes “...overly long without making a 
particular point...”? Shall C-MU never have 
another fruit-vegetable controversy? Shall 
we never again see the endless bantering 
about the activities fee or the competency of 
the Student Senate? Are these subjects point­
less? Possibly they become poindess after 
some period of time. How is this time period 
to be deterimined-magic incantations, read­
ing the flights of birds? No indeed! Let no 
one dedde what is worthwhile for another! 
Yet The Tartan claims it “...has a limited 
amount of space for letters.” It certainly has 
since it has begun devoting a page and a 
quarter to editorials. If The Tartan is so 
concerned with insipid gobbledygook, then 
let them return to their old format— 
without the lengthy editorials and with two 
pages of letters.
Timothy Huggins
Go Public 
Editor:
The students of the department of 
architecture recently received two docu­
ments that dealt with the present state of 
the department. One of these documents 
was a letter dated Oct. 15,1980, from Pres­
ident Cyert, the other was Mr. Louis Sau­
er’s department policy statement.
From the information stated in both of 
these statements, many undergraduates 
fear that both Mr. Sauer and President 
Cyert envision the future of undergradu­
ate architecture as that of a 4 year BFA 
program linked directly to a professional 
degree,2 year master program.
If this transition to a 6 year profes­
sional program is the goal of the 
Carnegie-Mellon administration, the 
students feel that this should be stated 
publicly. If this transition is not the goal, 
the students feel that the administrations 
should verify it publicly.
It all comes down to one concrete point 
in the eyes of the students: If there are any 
major changes linking the undergrad 
and grad program into a 6 year combined 
program, we feel it mandatory that this 
type of decision should be made public. 
Without this type of public statement or 
denial, the students have no basis foi 
feedback, which seems to be the key to 
Mr. Sauer’s policy making decisions.
A concerned undergraduate architecture
student
Another Rebuff 
Editor:
After two weeks of reading Bob Leighty’s 
shrill, biased writings on Ronald Reagan 
with comments from only the opposition
It is imperative that a president has good 
political advisors w ho are pulled primarily 
from the major parties. Could Anderson get 
good, experienced advisors into a smooth- 
working, non-partisan administration? No 
one knows the answer.
Would John Anderson be* a good presi­
dent in the 1980’s? No one knows the 
answer. We do know that by ac tions Jimmy 
Carter is a proven presidential failure and by 
wordsRonald Reagan is a probable one. We 
also know that the voters will probably 
return to their traditional parties Tuesday 
and vote for Carter and Reagan, their origi­
nal |x>pular choices. John Anderson as pres­
ident would lx* tcxi risky; the American 
|x*ople will vote for either the peanut farmer 
or tlx* movie actor.
Bob ¡.eighty is a Junior majoring in Tech­
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.
on every issue, smug repetition of every 
simple-minded catch phrase about Reagan, 
and an appalling lack of bets and research, 
I’m finally fed up. I’d like to make a few 
points about Reagan’s platform and past 
performances, which I hope will help some 
readers realize they need not take Mr. 
Leighty’s blatherings as gospel truth.
Dubious results and moderate success of 
economic policies in California? California 
had a deficit of 161 million dollars when 
Reagan took office; the year he left, he had 
rebatd 521 million dollars to the taxpayers of 
California. One main instrument erf his suc­
cess, which Reagan plans to apply to the 
federal government, was a program in 
which Reagan brought together successful 
business people, who donated their time to 
evaluate the government’s operation. They 
made suggestions on how to improve the 
government’s effidency, and Reagan insti 
tuted most of their proposals. (This pro­
gram has been outlined in many erf 
Reagan’s speeches and literature; it is unfor­
tunate Mr. Leighty never noticed it) Accord­
ing to this week’s issue erf Time magazine, 
“His administration of California was com­
petent, and he didn’t let ideological prind- 
ples prevent him from doing what had to be 
done.” And considering that the govern­
ment in California is second in size in the 
U.S. only to the federal government itself, it 
doesn’t seem that Reagan would be out of 
his league as President.
The prindple upon which the Kemp- 
Roth 30% tax cut is based is a generally 
accepted economic theory, first brought to 
light in the Truman administration, but 
which no administration has ever had the 
courage to apply; that there are always two 
tax rates which will yield an equal return. 
This is tied in with an obvious benefit erf tax 
cuts, a stimulated economy.
Mr. Leighty’s hysterical reference to the 
Republican party’s opposition to the ERA 
shows that he paid no attention to the 
Republican explanation for the plank, or 
the wording of the ERA. There are statutes, 
already enactd, to cover spedfic inequities 
on the basis of sex, such as in hiring practi­
ces. The problem which would plague ERA 
as well, is that these statutes are not enforced. 
If enforced, they would fulfill the purpose of 
ERA, without its inherent dangers. The 
ERA, as it stands, is tcx> broad, and therefore 
open to ridiculous and possibly calamitous 
misinterpretations. For if some idiot decides, 
for example, to challenge the existence of 
boys’ choirs or YWCAs, they could be 
declared unconstitutional. It isn’t wise to 
scoff at such possibilities; stranger things 
have happened in the good old U.S., and it 
is much wiser not to leave the possibility 
there.
Anyway, even if a Presidential candidate 
were to support the ERA, w hat could he do 
about it? ERA has been put before individ­
ual states, which, under constitutional law, 
must approve it if it is to be ratified. If the 
ERA is rejected in a majority of states, it 
would be incorrect for it to be passed against 
the will of the majority. There can be no 
appeal from the ballot.
Next week, I will continue to clarify Rea­
gan’s position. Perhaps Mr. Leighty will 
decide to support, with facts instead of par­
roting, the candidate of his choice, if he has 
one. If not, I will be happy to continue 
filling in the gaps.
Kimberly J. Kunkle 
(technical and creative writing)
Letter Policy
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow­
ing week’s issue of The Tartan.
Will Anybody Vote For The Independent?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
Bureau of Mines Purchase 
awaits Nov. Senate Action
by Alice Alfonsi
The Bureau of Mines bill (HR 7385, S 
2734) is still awaiting full approval by Con­
gress. Passed by the House of Representa­
tives on September 23, the bill was expected 
to be immediately approved in the Senate. 
On September 23 Congressman Morehead 
commented, “I anticipate no difficulty in 
having the Senate bill (S 2734) approved in 
the next day or so, and forwarded to the 
President for his signature.”
Morehead did not anticipate a delay in the 
Senate Budget Committee. The bill was 
introduced by Senator Heinz and was 
amended by the Senate Energy Committee 
to read exactly like the House’s bill (HR 
7385). The Senate Budget Committee, how­
ever, has not yet decided to grant a waiver for 
the bill. "If we can get a waiver,” said Jason 
Hall, legislative aid for Senator Heinze "we 
can bring it to the floor.”
A waiver refers to waiving the normal rule 
for legislation introduced after May 15. It is 
routinely .done for “uncontroversial 
legislation”-legislation that will not cost 
the government anything.
According to Hall, the bill should be on 
next year’s budget. The Senate is now 
recessed until November 12. If all goes well, 
the bill should be passed within that week. 
Then it boils down to how fast the Bureau of 
Mines can move out of 4800 Forbes Avenue 
and how fast CMU can move in.
The purpose of the Bureau of Mines bill is 
to provide for the conveyance of certain 
property used by the Bureau erf Mines and 
other Federal Agencies to CMU. The land 
involved is adjacent to and surrounded by 
the University Campus and is "considered 
to be the only property available to meet its
need for expansion,” according to Congress­
man Murphy of Pa.
Many of the activities of the Bureau of 
Mines (BOM) have already been relocated at 
its Bruceton, Pa. facilities. As soon as the bill 
moved to a new facility. Thus, the bill also 
appropriates money, not more than 
$5,400,000, for the construction of the new 
facility.
CMU is to pay to the United States the 
amount which the Secretary of the Interrior 
determines to be the fair market value of the 
property conveyed, or $5,400,000, whichever 
is greater. Since CMU is prepared to pay the 
full fair market value for the property, there 
continued on page 5
....
photo by
The Bureau of Mines building comples as seen from the fourth floor of Doherty Hall.
CMU releases financial report
by Reed Vickerman
“Outstanding in the history of the Uni­
versity”, was the way the Annual Financial 
and Statistical Report, released last Wednes­
day, characterized the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1980. In the new 20 page report, 
CMU announced the highlights of the past 
year’s financial operations. Included in the 
report were various indications of the health 
and direction of the school.
During the 1979-1980 fiscal year the 
revenues of the University exceeded the oper­
ating expenditures and deductions for the 
eighth consecutive year. The past year’s bal­
ance of $19.7 million excluded a $12.7 mil­
lion increase in facilities and equipment. 
The General Fund Operating Income rose 
in 1979-80 13.4 percent to $79.8 million. 
This income included tuition, sponsored
research and a combination of Gifts, grants 
and endowment income.
The total income from tuition and fees, 
including the $400 increase in tuition and 
the hikes in the executive education pro­
gram, rose by 15.1 percent to a record $23.7 
million. This most recent income total, 
from tuition and fees, marks an overall 
increase in undergraduate tuition rates of 
86.3 percent for the ten years of 1970-71 to 
1979-80. During this same ten year period 
the Consumer Price Index rose 74 percent.
Last year the number of alumni who 
donated to CMU jumped from 5,485 to 
8,444, while the number of corporate contri­
butions rose from 296 to 375. As a result of 
these increases, the gifts and grants received 
from these alumni, private businesses and 
additional foundations last year totaled
nearly $11.6 million, as compared with $6.8 
million the year before. Totaling the alumni 
gifts, they alone indicate an increase of more 
than $.6 million over 1978-79.
The income from sponsored research last 
year amounted to a record $29 million and 
accounted for 36.4 percent of the Universi­
ty’s overall income, while at the same time 
this sponsored research demanded only 30.7 
percent of the school’s expenditure.
Enrollment here at CMU appears to have 
found a constant level, and while the Fresh­
man class last year exceeded 1000 for the fifth 
consecutive year, the University has pro­
jected that the enrollment for the next five 
years will remain the equivalent of 5,000 
full-time students. The faculty here seems to 
have also reached a plateau, leveling off at 
approximately 420 full-time members.
THE $7995DPLOMA.
(Save up to $20 on Siladium* College Rings.)
Siladium rings are made from a fine jeweler’s 
stainless alloy that produces a brilliant white 
lustre. It is unusually strong and is resistant 
to deterioration from corrosion or skin 
reactions.
In short, it’s quality and durability at an affordable pnee.
Both men’s and women’s Siladium ring 
styles are on sale this week only through 
your ArtCarved representative. Trade in 
your 10K gold high school ring and save even more.
It’s a great way of saying you’ve earned it.
/IKK7IRVED^COLLEGE RINGS
Symbolizing your ability to achieve.
Wed Oct 29; Thurs Oct 30; Fri Oct 31
CMU Bookstore
I Ji-pusit required. Master Charge iir Visit accepted.y I MHO ArtCarvi-d College Rm«-
MASTER OF SCIENCE 
IN TRANSPORTATION AT MIT
The new MASTER of SCIENCE DEGREE in 
TRANSPORTATION is based on an interdisciplinary, 
intermodal approach to transportation. The program is 
accessible to students with a wide range of undergraduate 
degrees including, engineering, the social sciences, architecture, 
management, planning and operations research. Students also 
participate as research assistants in a large variety of research 
projects focusing on the role of transportation in solving some 
of society's basic problems such as equity, energy, the 
environment, and economic development.
For more information on the program, 
please write to:
CENTER FOR TRANSPORTATION STUDIES 
ROOM 1-123 
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
CAMBRIDGE, MA 02139 
or call:
(617) 253-5320
Stanford MBA-
REPRESENTATIVE 
COMING TO CAMPUS 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of 
Business will be on campus to discuss with interested 
students the exceptional educational opportunity of the 
Stanford MBA Program.
Appointments may be made through 
The Career Services and Placement Office
The Stanford MBA Program is a two-year general 
management course of studies designed for men and 
women who wish to develop management skills to meet 
the broad responsibilities required in both the private 
and public sectors today and in the future.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Stanford, California 94305

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 5
Carter entering final stretch
Calls national defense most important issue
ing in Youngstown that Ronald Reagan 
has thrown nuclear control plans, including 
the SALT agreements, “into the 
wastebasket.”
As he was leaving the podium, Carter 
admonished his listeners to vote, remember­
ing the 1968 presidential election. ,;A lot of 
democrats,” he said, “were confused by a 
third candidate... The issues haven’t 
changed.” Although John Anderson has 
been falling rapidly in the polls for the past 
week, Carter is still worried that too many of
his liberal backers will be lured away by the photo by Robert Zusman
independent candidate. President Carter with his “support steel” T-shirt.
Senate to authorize sale in Nov.
I by Doug Kirsop
“Things are getting better each week,”
I President Carter told the thousands who 
r heard him speak in the economically hard 
hit towns of Beaver Falls and Youngstown, 
Ohio last week.
Opening his speech in Beaver Falls by 
telling the crowd of about 6000 how much 
his mother loved their native son Joe 
Namath, he continued to say that 7100 more 
people were employed in Beaver County 
than the day he was inaugurated.
Carter received applause as he lauded his 
energy policy, and said he “does not want 
the United States to be threatened again by 
i OPEC oil price increases.” He dted that 
i “more American coal, over 8 million tons, 
will be produced this year. That is more coal 
than has ever been produced in a year in this 
country before.”
He also restated his belief that energy is 
! “the base upon which we can improve the 
I entire American industrial complex.”
A major part of the industrial complex in 
1 both the Beaver Valley and, Youngstown
i areas is specialty steel, as evidenced by the 
large number of people carrying signs urg­
ing the President to extend the trigger price 
mechanism to the so-called specialty steel. 
Carter addressed the request as part of his 
prepared speech as he said, “If it’s possible... 
we will extend the trigger price mechanism 
to specialty steel.”
Carter also said he was planning special 
tax breaks to the steel industry, with the 
hope that they would help reinvestment in 
the industry. Four times during his two 
speeches he talked of how he and his admin­
istration had brought government agencies,
steel management, and steelworkers 
together. Lloyd McBride, President of the 
steelworker’s union, accompanied Carter on 
the trip.
Carter drew his laigest responses when he 
portrayed Ronald Reagan as a Republican 
with exactly the same stance as the Republi­
cans who opposed FDR’s New Deal legisla­
tion in the 1930’s. Twice in each town, 
Carter quoted Reagan, who once referred to 
unemployment compensation as “a free, 
paid vacation for free-loaders.” The crowd 
in Beaver Falls followed Carter’s lead, boo­
ing Reagan while Carter flashed his now 
famous smile.
Reagan remained the target of the last 
half of Carter’s two speeches. The President 
reminded the predominantly blue collar 
crowds that Reagan had also proposed a 
plan to make the Social Security program 
voluntary, which would, according to Car­
ter, destroy the entire program. He con­
tinued by citing the former California 
governor’s opposition to the minimum 
wage law, which also had its start in the 
New Deal era.
Carter concluded his speech with what he 
termed “perhaps the most important issue 
of the election- national defense.” Playing 
upon Reagan’s image as a hawk, Carter said 
he thinks America should have a “strong 
national defense on the one hand, which we 
all support, and peace on the other.”
Nuclear arms are at the heart of national 
defense for both the US and USSR, and one 
of the hottest issues of the campaign. Carter 
told the crowd in Beaver Falls and the televi­
sion audience for his structured town meet-
continued from page 4
will be no money lost to the Federal
Government.
The history of the bill goes back to 1957, 
when the idea was first discussed by Carne­
gie Institute of Technology with the BOM. 
The BOM was interested in cosolidating its 
operations at their Bruceton facility.
Bills have been introduced in Congress on 
at least three occasions since that time, and 
each time they have been unsuccessful either 
because of inaction, last minute appropria­
tion cuts, or disagreements concerning the 
fair market value of the property.
The BOM facility was designed by the 
same architect who planned the CMU cam­
pus, and it is built in the same style. The 
design of the buildings blends right into the 
campus and since it is immediately adjacent 
to the campus is a natural extension of it.
The Main building has recently been placed 
on the National Register of Historic Build­
ings, and was built for research and scien­
tific studies.
The growth in research at CMU accom­
panied by a growth of about 20% in students, 
has created a severe shortage, and the univer­
sity must acquire additional facilities if it is 
to continue to hold a leading role in science 
and technology research.
On the floor of Congress Morehead said, 
“CMU has started a new institute for 
research on robotics in the context of auto­
mation of manufacturing. In view of the 
declining work force in the 1980’s and the 
pressing need to increase productivity, this 
research program is vital to the national 
interest. Carnegie Mellon is one of the few 
research universities in the United States 
with the background and resources to 
undertake a major robotics program.”
Vii loria Fyodorova is a movie a< tress 
and a former resident of the Soviet 
Union She is the daughter of a Russian 
movie at tress who s|x>nt years in a i on- 
< entration (amp and a retired U.S. Navy 
oftk er. She will speak on her life and the 
film (ultures of the United Slates and the 
Soviet Union.
In-i.-t lm uF*-«-*-by ACuTV EbF*iTbyFun*«« by ACTIVITIES Fit

---------------------------------------------------

Goal reached in CMU fund drive
Hear through their ears.
See through their eyes.
Ordinary stereo systems are suddenly capable 
of transmitting “Audio-Visions” once you put on 
the new Kansasalbum. Hear and see for yourself.
Featuring the single, “Hold 0n7On Kirshner Records and Tapes.
Produced by Kansas Management: Budd Carr. The Carr Company Distributed by CBS Records. © 1980 CBS Inc.
Page 6—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
Anderson VP Lucey 
campaigns in Pittsburgh
continued from page 1 
paign. Another alumnus, Mac Connan, 
chaired the Alumni Challenge portion of 
the campaign. Connan is president of 
Conart Industries Corporation and is a 
CMU trust«*.
The announcement of the campaign’» 
conclusion was made by Swearingen during 
a conference of the Engineers’ Society of 
Western PA at the William Penn Hotel. It 
came on the 75th anniversary of the 
Carnegie Tech opened its dcxjrs.
dav
by Janelle Molloy
In reference to the hostage situation in 
Iran, Lucey feels that with the aborted rescue 
attempt, Jimmy Carter is in the worst posi­
tion to get the hostages released, and that 
either John Anderson or Ronald Reagan if 
elected would have a better chance of resolv­
ing the situation.
“On the other hand” said Lucey, “I’d like 
nothing better than to see them released this 
afternoon and let Jimmy Carter get wha­
tever political benefit he deserves.”
In reference to the Anderson campaign’s 
one million dollar debt, Lucey stated that he 
hopes to become as much in debt as possi­
ble, making possible more television adver­
tising. Although any borrowed funds would 
be repaid by retroactive funding from Fed­
eral Election Committee.
Lucey said that the Carter administration 
has discouraged banks from lending funds 
to the Anderson campaign by initiating a 
“memorandum suggesting regulatory retri­
bution to any bank loaning money to John 
Anderson.” As a result, the Anderson cam­
paign has received no bank loans and is now 
turning towards private donations.
GOVERNOR PATRICK LUCEY
Carter holds town meeting; promises better economy
by Doug Kirsop
While in Youngstown last Monday, Pres­
ident Carter participated in an hour long 
question and answer session similar to his 
town meetings of the last four years. Broad­
cast later in the day, the audience consisted 
of a cross-section of Youngstown area resi­
dents who questioned him on virtually 
every issue in this campaign from ERA to 
Iran and inflation to higher education.
Echoing his statements of hope from ear­
lier in the day, Garter said, “I think we’ll 
have a good Christmas,” when a questioner 
said, “People here don’t even know whether 
to manufacture goods for Christmas. They 
don’t have any faith anymore.”
f; Ï9SC Corn & Bioorf, irte
Carter also acknowledged his continuing 
support for the Equal Rights Amendment. * 
But at the same time, he warned his listeners 
not to take too much from the amendment. 
“It means,” he said, “that no individual’s 
rights can be taken away.”
A student from Youngstown High 
School asked the President why the great 
minds of the country can’t come up with a 
solution to unemployment and inflation. 
“We can overcome,” Carter began, and 
stressed his administration’s support for 
such symptom solving efforts as unemploy­
ment compensation and temporary employ-* 
ment programs. He went on to say that 8.5 
million jobs have been added to the econ­
omy since he was inaugurated, more than in 
any four year period of peace time in this 
country. “When we don’t import oil, >ve 
don’t import unemployment or inflation,” 
Carter concluded, emphasizing his new oil 
policy that he says will cause the US to 
import 2 million less barrels per day by dril­
ling more gas and oil wells in this country 
than ever before.
When asked how, as a Christian, he could 
support abortion, Carter replied, “I am not 
in support of abortion. I am against abor­
tion.” However, he continued, “As Presi­
dent, I have to carry out the ruling of the 
Supreme Court which says abortion is 
legal.”
Another questioner asked Carter how he 
could change the current image that for the 
right amount, government seems to be for 
sale. “Things are not nearly so bad as in the 
past,” Carter responded. He said there is a 
"high degree of openness in government 
now that’s very good.” He also cited the 
FBI’s Abscam investigation for creating a 
continued on page 8
Patrick J. Lucey, former Governor of Wis­
consin and running mate of Independent 
Presidential candidate John Anderson, paid 
a brief visit to Pittsburgh last week.
Holding a series of press conferences and 
interviews at the Pittsburgh airport, Lucey 
was optimistic about the Anderson cam­
paign despite its low ratings in the polls.
While the effects on Anderson’s popular­
ity from the recent debates proved to be dis­
appointing, Lucey holds high hopes for the 
campaign’s new television advertisements.
John Anderson has made a campaign 
pledge to aid education, a pledge which he 
intends to carry out by increasing funds for 
federal grants such as the BEOG and by 
calling for, as Lucey states, “a loan program 
to insure that any qualified youngster could 
in fact get a loan if the need existed and get 
the kind of education that he or she quali­
fied for.”
Governor Lucey is optimistic that the 
level of political participation on college 
campuses will increase this year, since the 
voting of eighteen-year-olds has been legal­
ized for some years now and the proceding 
adjustment period has passed.
Lucey feels that much of the support for 
the Anderson ticket by college students is a 
result of Anderson’s stand on the ERA. 
Lucey stated that “I think people feel that 
Jimmy Carter has at best paid lip-service to 
equal rights for women. Ronald Reagan is 
campaigning on a platform that has with­
drawn its support for equal rights for 
women. John Anderson is one candidate 
who is gung-ho on the thing and promises 
to stump the country to get ratification of 
the constitutional amendment that will at 
last insure equal rights for the women of this 
country.”
Anderson has also received support by 
college students as a result of his 
policy. He is in favor of a 3% annual real 
growth in the defense budget until 1984. 
These additional funds would be directed 
towards improving conventional arms and 
increasing pay and allowances to attract 
qualified volunteer army.
The Anderson platform is in favor of the 
SALT II treaty. Governor Lucey feels that 
the possibility of having a winable limited 
nuclear war is “dangerous nonsense and 
that once the nuclear bombs start to fall, 
you’re not going to have anything short of 
nuclear holocaust.”

---------------------------------------------------

COXXTEUK RULEDBY DIAHt: TKOD05
10» Th * . I* tVie <M«r orttts -te ^ V
^ *V*t€. are ^e. ylaM*S Mtrcrty} VBtwS, I 
gwd AUrs -feUoMrec* by |
4t/rv\) L/ronuS . AgPtu»i€J and Pl\Ay.______^ 1
árvi igl-Jhq, Planets. Ifr.tte cloVgr prfr+s f! 
Aj_:rif>grg<iTe theyUwevs. ftlera/r^Vewu*, 
*.rtVY,gir\d Ahfó ^gi.las'gA-.hy 3V?i*tr> 
i_'jfntUY»,ìrw^^eftune)ay'ci Plvto-___
f
*»y lol ThePW^s. Xvx-tV*. do>gr orbi+s+o 
n -fKere Are tha. pWe^-s Merc.vjr^^W'A
__________________________
on -there oj-e the planeas rtercv/ry,Vew^ 
Alars_______________________
T7T, jherxïÂwr
TVt>v\ +•'**9e
Pittsburgh Ballet TheatreIRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE ^ 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Patrick Frantz, Artistic Director
Heinz Hall
Nov. 7 & 8 
— 8 p.m. 
Nov. 8 & 9 
— 2:30 p.m.
Tickets at Heinz Hall 
& Kaufmann’s 
$15. 12, 10. 9. 6. 3
Group
Discounts
or CALL
281-0360
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC. 621-7388 or 621-11853901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGM., PA. 19213
CHOICEOPEN FORUM
With Representatives from these Campaigns:
Carter/Mondale Democrat 
Reagan/Bush Republican Friday, Oct. 31
Anderson Independent 12 Noon
Clark Libertarian Wherrett Room
Commoner Consumer
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
URGENTLY NEEDED!!!
WE’LL PAY THE HIGHEST PRICES 
WE’LL PAY YOU ON-THE-SPOT CASH 
FOR YOUR HICH SCHOOL OR 
COLIECE CLASS RINCSPAYING TOP MARKET PRICES
FORGOLD & SILVER
GOLD
class rings « wedding bands 
• dental gold • charm brace 
lets • chains • watches • 
rings • medals • tie bars • 
bracelets • broaches • 
lockets • pendants • ear 
rings • scrap gold in any 
form 10K. 14K 18K. 22K 24K
SILVER COINS
half dollars • quarters • 
dimes 1964 and before • 
Silver Dollars 1935 and 
before • Kennedy half 
dollars 1965 thru 1970 • 
Wartime nickels 1942-1945 • Canadian silver 1966 and 
before
STERLING SILVER
flatware • trays • tea sets • ingots • Franklin Mint items
• bowls • serving pieces • 
knives • forks • spoons • 
candelabra • candy dishes• anything marked sterling or 925
• DIAMONDS: AH sizes wanted, high prices paid * POCKET WATCHES: In any
condition, need not be gold or silver • WANTED: Coin collections, rare coins, proof sets
and estatesNOW FOR THE NEXT 4 DAYS
WIDNI80AY 9:00 AHA-7:00 PM 
FRIDAY 9:00 AM-7:00 RM
THURSDAY 9:00 AM-7:00 RM 
SATURDAY S:00 AM-7:00 RM
MASS TEEATROTFO CINPt aPnfIord B- »IPNoaPa
Don't Forget.. . Bring your Class Rings 
TWO CONVENIENT LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU
OAKLAND — CROSSGATE INN
Forbes Avtnuo at Cart Place in the Heart of Oakland 
Froo Parking at Roar of Hotol
WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 9 AM to 7 PMPHONE 683-6009
DOWNTOWN — PITTSBURGH GOLD * SILVER EXCHANGE
441 Wood Street • (Permanent Location)
HOURS 9 00 5:00 MONDAY SAT CLOSED SUNDAYPHONE 355-0830
2% BONUS!
This coupon entitles you to a 2% Bonus on all your gold and 
sterling silver sales at "Pittsburgh Gold and Silver Exchange.
Permanent Locations in Pittsburgh Area
PITTSBURGHGOLD & SILVER EXCHANCE
¦¦¦¦¦
Freshman to 
coordinate GMU 
Reagan drive
by Janelle Molloy
Freshman Andrew Stahl has been named 
the Youth for Reagan Campus Coordinator 
at CMU. The appointment, which came 
from the Reagan/Bush headquarters in 
Pittsburgh, gives Stahl the responsibility of 
organizing the Reagan effort at CMU.
Stahl has been involved in the campaign 
since the primaries when he worked for the 
Bush for President campaign.
Stahl feels that much of the student 
apathy existing today is a result of the exten­
sive work load most students carry and their 
partial alienation from the off-campus 
world. As campus coordinator, Stahl hopes 
to “finally persuade the usually apathetic 
youth to work for the Reagan/Bush ticket.” 
He feels that the normal ten percent college 
voter turnout can be increased by getting 
students organized and informed on the can­
didates and issues.
As part of the Youth for Reagan effort on 
Campus, Stahl has organized a new College 
Republican dub which will have its first 
meeting tonight in Skibo and has a speaker 
scheduled for later this week.
"Governor Reagan offers hope for the 
future with his bold, inovative economic 
program,” Stahl said. “Jimmy Carter offers 
us four more years of economic and moral 
decay.”
“In order to get America up and moving 
again, it is the job of government not to live 
high off the hog, but to get in touch with the 
average person,” Stahl said. He feels that the 
Reagan/Bush ticket will best serve this 
interest.
Stahl, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Gerald 
Stahl of Framingham, Mass., is pursuing a 
joint degree in History and Political 
Science. In his spare time, Stahl works for 
the campus radio station, WRCT. 
hopes that his efforts “Will help Governor 
Reagan win the White House and restore 
the leadership that has been lacking in the 
executive office for the past three and a halt 
years.”
Carter Town meeting
continued from page 6
“higher standard of ethics in federal
government.”
Responding to a question on the Iran 
hostage situation, Carter said that security 
has been “beefed-up” at other embassies, but 
no embassy could hold out against the type 
erf seige that happened in Iran. Once the 
hostages are released, as Carter feels they will 
be, he said relations with Iran would return 
to normal. All blockades and embargoes 
would be lifted and Iran’s assets in this coun­
try would be unfrozen. "A strong, stable 
Iran,” said Carter, “is good for a strong 
America.”
Asked for his most explicit statement on 
Jerusalem, the President said that the city 
“should be forever individual. People of all 
faiths who regard Jerusalem as a sacred city 
should have access to it.” But at the same 
time, he said he wants a strong Israel as well 
as a strong treaty between Israel and Egypt. 
Charter views Egypt as the strongest, most 
stable country in the Mid-East.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Features__________________________________
Carter and Reagan: With one week to go where’s their defense?
.
by Michael Herskovitz
Once again defense posture is a hot elec- 
I* tion year topic. Both Carter and Reagan call 
I for increased defense spending» but there are 
1 a few agreements concerning how much 
gl should be spent and what should be pur- 
! chased. Carter has been trying to portray 
h Reagan as a warmonger while Reagan 
H claims Carter is naive. Perhaps an examina- 
I! don of our military issues—the MX missile, 
j the neutron bomb, the B-l bomber, and the 
defense budget—would reveal a more con­
clusive view of each candidate’s stance on 
defense policy.
In order to counter the increased vulnera­
bility of our landbased Intercontinental Bal- 
ynistic Missiles (ICBMs) a mobile MX misile 
t : has been proposed. The MX is a nuclear
shell game—about 400 missiles travel along 
a track which has about 2,000 firing points. 
The cost for this project has been estimated 
to be $50 billion. After delaying construc­
tion for three years, the Carter administra­
tion has decided to go ahead with the 
project. Reagan agrees that the MX produc­
tion should be stepped up.
The neutron bomb is a weapon that has 
generated considerable controversy. Basi­
cally, it kills people but does not destroy 
buildings. Reagan thinks it should be 
deployed in Europe; Carter does not.
When it comes to airplanes, the B-52 is 
old; the average age of each plane is 18 years. 
The replacement for the B-52 is the B-l. 
Proponents claim the B-l to be more effec­
tive than the B-52 because of its sophisti­
cated design and weaponry. Carter is against 
the B-l. He claims that it is too vulnerable to 
the improved Soviet air-defense capability. 
He thinks the money could be better spent 
on developing the air-launched cruise mis­
sile. On the other hand, Reagan is con­
vinced the B-52 should go. He supports the 
production of the B-l or a less costly 
facsimile.
When it comes to increasing the defense 
budget the question is by how much. Pres­
ently, the U.S. spends about $162 billion for 
defense per year. (Before the Korean war this 
figure was about $13 billion in current dol­
lars). While Reagan has not formally pro­
posed any increase, leaks have suggjested 
that by 1985 the Reagan defense budget 
would be about $239 billion (in 1981 dol­
lars). Carter plans to increase defense spend-
More 
fund 
for you
January, moreover, is when the next 
round of military registration is supposed to 
begin. At that point, according to spokes­
man Paul Mocko, “we’ll start registering 
men with year birth 1962. It will be the start 
of continuous registration,” in which eligi­
ble men register during the month of their 
birth.
ing 4.4% a year, after adjustment for 
inflation. By 1985, his budget should 
approach $192 billion (in 1981 dollars). The 
punch line is that Congress appears to be in 
the mood to crank up the defense machine.
Keep in mind, no candidate wants to 
appear soft on defense during an election 
year. One analyst has estimated that if Rea­
gan buys all the weapons he has advocated 
at one time or another during the campaign 
he would be spending about 
$1,280,000,000,000 (1.28 trillion) over the 
next five years. While this figure might be 
expected from “warmonger Reagan”, 
“peace-loving Jimmy’s” shopping list is not 
far behind at $1,040,000,000,000 (1.04 tril­
lion). If you think you’re worried, imagine 
how the Soviets feel.
Washington, D.C. (CPS)—With little 
debate and even less notice, the Selective 
Service—which oversees military registra­
tion and conscription—has picked up a 
healthy 25 percent increase in its funding for 
next year.
The funding provision, which gives 
Selec tive Service an extra $6 million for a 
total budget of $27 million, is currently rest­
ing in a House-Senate conference commit­
tee. It will be discussed when Congress 
reconvenes after the elections. Since key con­
ferees agree on the terms, the measure is 
expected to get a quick approval.
Meanwhile, Selective service’s September 
estimate that 93 percent of eligible young 
men registered for the draft over the summer 
is now being double-checked by a Govern­
ment Acounting Office team. Their results 
are due in January.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
Common Grounds: A new hot spot! Inside the CMU
General Dynamics is the nation’s number one defense contractor. And, we re number one in many commercial programs as well. We’re also a leader when it comes to employee benefits, salaries, opportunities for advancement, job diversity and mobility, attractive locales, modem manufacturing equipment and facilities, and
expanded technological bases. You can be sure that the exciting scope of technical and business opportunities available at General Dynamics will offer you the broadest possible career path.Our representatives have already been on your campus this fall. If you did not have an opportunity to talk to us, but would like to learn more
about our advanced high-technology programs, send your resume to:
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN-14 
St. Louis, MO 63105
An Equal Opportunity Employer
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Education Center
by Melody Mazzie
Of the entire student population at CMU, 
probably 2% are aware of the Education 
Center in Baker Hall. Of that 2%, maybe five 
students understand the center’s purpose.
The Education Center is actually an 
extension of the History Department. 
According to history graduate student Steve 
Fershleiser, the center gives graduate stu­
dents the opportunity to evaluate, develop, 
study, and implement curriculum mate­
rials. It is also the center for teachers located 
in the Pittsburgh area.
Fershleiser is the co-director of the 
National Science Foundation on Urban 
Affairs for Allegheny County High School 
Teachers. He is also an evaluation consul­
tant for both the Civic Education Program 
and the Education Center’s Writing 
Program.
At present Fershleiser is involved in sev­
eral projects at the Center. One project deals 
with the indexing of George Rawick’s 37 
volumes of slave interviews entitled, The 
American Slaves.
A second project deals with a study of 
Texas during 1860-1900 that involves com­
paring black and white family structures, 
occupational groupings, etc. “What we’re 
trying to do,” he explained, “is determine 
whether what is written is correct; we’re try­
ing to develop our own theories about it.” 
The research has been going on for the last 
four years and uses manuscript census mate­
rial from 1860-1900. The findings will be 
compared to such works as Gutman’s The 
Black Family in Slavery and Freedom, 1750- 
1925, Blassingane’s Slave Community, and 
the previously mentioned slave narratives.
The purpose of the study is to improve 
knowledge on black and white families dur­
ing the period of Reconstruction. Said 
Fershleiser, “We hope to end up with a seriqs 
of articles on topics involved which incorpo­
rate qualitative and quantitative research.” 
Dr. Rowland Smith of the History Depart­
ment and Dr. Ramona Swane of Statistics 
are also working on the project.
A third project in which Fershleiser is 
involved poses the hypotheses that teachers 
must continually update themselves on con­
tent and procedural matter in order to be 
effective. He claims that without new 
insight and direction teachers tend to stag­
nate in the classroom. This study has been 
going on for three years and is the subject of 
his dissertation. “The outcomes,” he stated, 
“are to develop a series of models which will 
alow in-service program directors to recruit 
teachers who will be effective by their con­
tinued educational experience.”
The Civic Education project, has its mate­
rials in schools at Bakersfield, California, 
Augsberg, and Brussels. The project, by 
means of pre-tests, post-tests, and compara­
tive tests, has shown to be effective.
Fershleiser, who has just completed a 
defense of his dissertation, has worked as a 
high school counselor and a drug and alco­
hol counselor. He began curriculum work 
at the Education Development Center in 
Cambridge, Mass. As to his future goals he 
would “like to be able to combine teaching 
and education research and work in the area 
of program development and evaluation.” 
His wife, Lorraine, also works in the Educa­
tion Center as a secretary.
The center, which will eventually be re­
located to the Public Relations office, is 
headed by Associate Dean Anthony Penna 
and is “held together” by “mom” Kaye 
Dudas.
by Kathy Krummert
Live music, inviting atmosphere, people, 
food...the ideal ingredients for a perfect Fri­
day night party...welcome to COMMON 
GROUNDS. COMMON GROUNDS is 
not a downtown nightclub or a suburban 
dance lounge, but the result of the latest 
brainstorm of Activities Board Dance Com­
mittee, Residence Life, and Student Dormi­
tory’ Council Programming Committee to 
be established in the Morewood Gardens 
cafeteria.
AB, Residence Life, and SDC decided that 
through their combined energies, resources, 
and budgets they can provide top-quality 
entertainment and a good time for students. 
They can establish that special place where 
people can meet friends, dance, and eat, 
without paying a cover charge and without 
traveling miles to find it.
night AB Coffeehouses. COMMON 
GROUNDS sponsors want this to be a 
weekend event that students can expect and 
look forward to.
Three dances are scheduled already.
The first is on FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 
HALLOWEEN night. The band will be 
“Aura,” playing primarily funk and top 40 
hits (AWB, Earth Wind and Fire, Doobie 
Brothers, Springsteen, etc.). Check the ad in 
today’s Tartan
Friday, November 7, is a special date; it is 
the grand opening celebration of COM­
MON GROUNDS the night for the “Nuts 
and Bolts” party, complete with door prizes 
($50 first prize). “Toiz” will provide the 
music. Details next week.
Friday, November 21, is the Rock ’n Roll 
party, featuring “Le Slick” a rock ’n roll and 
New Wave band.
Top local bands will perform at each 
event, providing different kinds of music to 
appeal to different tastes-rock ‘n roll, new 
wave, disco, swing, etc. AB Dance has pur­
chased a dance floor, eliminating heels 
catching in carpeting or those near-fatal 
slips on slick, waxed floors. More-Pizza is 
getting in on the act by selling pizza, and free 
Coke and snacks will be within reaching 
distance. The parties will center around a 
particular theme with door prizes offered at 
some.
COMMON GROUNDS parties are not 
“dorm parties” per se, they just happen to be 
located in the most accomodating and adap­
table location on campus (last year’s bashes 
that were held there were certainly success­
ful); they are an energetic Friday night alter­
native after an exhausting week; and they 
are a different concept than the Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 11
Students prefer Luke and Laura to Latin and Lectures
(CPS)— Vivian Relta, a graduate student 
at Cornell, starts with “Ryan’s Hope.” Then 
she switches channels between ABC’s “All 
My Children” and CBS’s “The Young and 
the Restless.” Afterwards comes “Edge of 
Night,” “One Life to Live,” and “General 
Hospital.”
And Relta’s viewing habits, once consi­
dered to be exclusively those of idle house­
wives or aged shut-ins, are becoming more 
common among college students. Soap ope­
ras, in other words, have come to campus.
Estimates of just how many students have 
taken to the soaps are almost always 
unscientific. But one scholarly study, by 
Northern Illinois University professors 
Myles Breen and Jon Powell, projected that 
40 percent of the female and 10 percent of the 
male studnets on campus regularly tuned 
in.
“I would estimate about 30 percent of the 
students here watch them,” speculates a 
Yale senior who preferred that her name be 
withheld. The senior, who says she’s sus­
pended most tv viewing in deference to her 
studies, likes “General Hospital” because 
“it’s so complicated. I started watching and 
got hooked.”
A male senior at Harvard’s Currier House
“used to watch them, but I don’t anymore 
since school started.” He notes that “quite a 
few people seem to know something about 
them, so I would say most of them have 
watched them.”
Apparently a number of students haven’t 
been able to give up the soaps for the dura­
tion of the school year.
Celia Roddy, a dorm head at Cornell, 
knows “quite a few” women who daily 
gather in the tv rooms of sorority houses and 
dormitories, particularly to watch “General 
Hospital.”
But she claims Cornell women don’t 
watch as much television as women at other 
colleges. And no one in college, she asserts, 
cares as much about the soaps as high 
school students.
Roddy superv ised a group of high school 
seniors in a special summer program at the 
university. The students, she recalls with 
some awe, “planned their whole days 
around the soaps.”
Lorriane Zenka Smith, editor of the soap 
fan magazine “Rona Barrett’s Daytimers” 
says the campus soap opera boom is part of a 
more general spread of popularity for the 
shows.
She cited a budding interest in the pro­
grams for their production values and for 
sociological observations. She wouldn’t
mind cultivating that interest, either. She 
has been discussing the possibility of teach­
ing classes on soap operas with administra­
tors at UCLA and “other” California 
schools.
“Soaps are more sophisticated than they 
ever were,” Smith says. “They’re shooting 
on location now in places like Ireland, 
Greece, France, the Bahamas.”
Moreover, “they can treat an issue with 
more in-depth coverage and perspective 
than night-time programming,” she adds. 
¿¿They cover issues like wife beating, cancer, 
abortion, infidelity.”
Smith guesses that the subject matter has 
helped soaps reach new, male audiences. 
“We get a lot of letters form men. For every 
three men who write, you can bet there are 
seven behind them who don’t write.” 
ABC’s line-up of “General Hospital,” 
“All My Children,” and “One Life to Live” 
seems to be most popular among students, 
she observes.
“The ABC stories integrate their oldest 
and their youngest story lines,’ Smith points 
out. She, like many of the students contacted
for this article by College Press Service 
thought “General Hospital” was the mosi 
"successful integrator.
In the Northern Illinois study conductec 
last fall, 40 percent of the soap watchers saic 
they viewed soaps because they were inter­
ested in the involved plots, 30 percent said 
they watched because the characters were 
“so dumb,” and almost 14 percent noted the 
beneficial effect of watching televised pro­
grams that made their own troubles seem 
trivial.
Figuring out why such material appeals 
to the educated elite of American youth can 
be a problem. “The programs have obvious 
appeals,” says sociologist Rodney Jacobs of 
the University of Delaware. “They offer 
romance and escape and relatively-harmless 
titillation. But as to why college students 
watch them instead of higher-quality pro­
grams that offer the same things, I don’t 
know.
Software Engineer,BS in Management Science
'I'm taking advantage of Harris' 100% educational benefits for graduate programs—going for my Master's in Business Administration. I'm where I want to be—growing with a growing company
Senior Engineer,
BS in Math, BSEE, MSEE
"It's one thing to have a lot of exciting high technology proj­ects going on. As a young en­gineer, I feel fortunate to have the opportunity to get right into them."
The Harris Corporation.
A billion dollar leader in sophisti­cated communication and information 
processing equipment and systems. With more than 23,000 people in over three dozen facilities worldwide.
Harris Government Systems Group.
Designers and producers of high 
technology electronic systems. From a space deployable antenna to anti-jam . 
modems. From a Kremlin-to-White House hotline to fiber optic digital video 
trunking systems.Where these two professionals, and many more, are contributing their
THE MINDS
imaginative, on-target ideas. Pooling their knowledge to innovate and improve 
technologies. Changing the face of the 
communications industry.
If your background is in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical or Industrial En­
gineering, Computer Science, Physics 
or Math—there s a place for your mind right here.
If you're unable to schedule a campus interview, send your resume in confidence to: Dick Lengler, Harris Government Systems Group Opera­
tions, P.O. Box 37, Melbourne, Florida 32901.
INTERVIEW DATE: 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14,1980
BEHIND THE PROGRESS.
HARRIS
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION PROCESSING
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/V/H

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
An education that takes place outside the classroom
By Kathy McGinley 
fc Maureen Brennan
It’s the old “experience necessary” rou­
tine: how can you get it to have it to win that 
one-in-a-million, designed-just-for-you job 
out there? Better yet, until you get it how can 
you be sure you want it? At “The Profes­
sional Choice” we’re proud of being job- 
oriented, but wasn’t it just last week we were 
gritting our teeth through 45 units of mid­
terms, crits, and projects only to wonder 
when 27 of them would ever be useful?
While classes often seem off on the side­
lines somewhere, and entire semesters seem 
full of superfluous but (so they tell us) neces­
sary evils, for many students, class work 
becomes more tangible when they take 
advantage of opportunities on campus that 
are indeed uniquely “professional.” By over­
loading with extracurricular involvement, 
they do something rewarding that is clearly 
job-related; while not only granting practi­
cal experience, it helps them sort through 
uncertainties about their fields of study and 
broadens awareness of possibilities for the 
future.
Dave Land and Mory Brenner (Sloppy 
Joe and Deveraux) have already made 
money from their WRCT experience- 
they’ve produced radio commercials that 
have aired in several New England states. 
Ralph Sherman’s political interests, fur­
thered by his involvement with Student 
Senate, have resultd in his participation on 
the Washington Study Semester. And while 
writing, editing, and publishing have 
become second nature to the editorial board 
of The Tartan, the paper is not just run by 
writing majors. In addition to Karen Stevens 
(AMS) as business manager, the staff 
includes designers, artists, and 
photographers.
These, of course, are just a few examples 
of non-academic activities that supplement 
class work. There are many groups on cam­
pus that offer positions of responsibility that 
prove beneficial by providing professional 
experience and opportunities. One such 
organization is AIESEC (eye-sek).
Despite a fancy name (AIESEC is a french 
acronym), CMU’s committee of this interna­
tional organization, for students in business 
and economics is presently comprised of 60 
students from all 5 colleges. Psychology', 
writing, design, illustration, math, and 
engineering majors have all found a place in 
promoting the international awareness and 
training of managers that AIESEC 
encourages.
Each year students at CMU raise jobs in 
the Pittsburgh area for foreign students, and 
in turn have a chance to work in a business 
related job in another country. There, they 
are hosted by die foreign students who raised
their job. 14 CMU students worked abroad 
on this program last year.
Damien Bosco (AMS) is Vice-President of 
Marketing for AIESEC at CMU. He spent a 
week in New York City this summer on a 
sales training seminar run by IBM; thus he 
learned how to successfully market the AIE­
SEC program, and has trained members of 
his marketing committee to do likewise. US 
Steel, Rockwell, Gulf Oil, PPG, Alcoa, and 
Equibank are a few of the companies that 
hired a foreign student through the pro­
gram last summer.
Jeannie Jessup (Psychology/AMS) is 
interested in working in Personnel after gra­
duation; as director of Human Resorces for 
the local committee she is obtaining first 
hand experience. Professional Writing 
major Kathy Krummert is currently editor 
of Liason, a national publication for the 
2000 members of AIESEC’s 56 committees 
in the US.
Design and illustration majors find valu­
able portfolio material in publications such 
as these-last spring Design major Linda 
Held completed all the design, layout, and 
photography for the AIESEC-Camegie- 
Mellon annual report. Presently an illustra­
tion major is designing a poster for the Nov. 
6 “Exxon on Energy - A World Afire” 
seminar, one of the many projects sponsored
for the campus community.
As Chief Financial officer, Dave McVey 
(AMS/Math/Econ) has used his knowledge 
of finance, accounting, and marketing to 
raise and budget the more than $10,000 that 
the CMU committee operates with.
Ken Boyd (AMS/Econ), President of AIE­
SEC at CMU, has spent the past two 
summers abroad gaining international 
management experience. In addition to 
handling the responsibility of fundraising, 
marketing, and managing the local com­
mittee, Ken’s AIESEC experience has made 
him realize his career interests lie in interna­
tional marketing and planning. Presently 
he and Maureen Brennan (Professional 
Writing/AMS) are preparing to do a 
report for Brothers Brother-a foundation 
which supports third world countries in an 
effort to improve conditions through corpo­
rate support and awareness.
Contacts and experience gained by invol­
vement in organizations such as AIESEC 
are invaluable for personal and professional 
development. While the time one puts in 
cannot be reduced to units and grades, the 
satisfaction derived is equally important. 
Life at “The Professional Choice” does not 
end in the classroom.
Kathy McGinley and, Maureen Brennan 
are active members of AIESEC-CMU.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center Inc. offers students, 
graduate students, faculty and all university staff and their child­
ren, the opportunity for evaluation for insight-oriented psychother­
apy at $25.00 per evaluation session. Subsequent therapy, if 
appropriate, is offered on a sliding fee scale.
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL 
Mrs. Brown, 661-2300 
Medical Center East Building 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
APPLIED MATH and ENGINEERING MAJORS
The PhD Program at the Stanford Business School offers specializations in 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS, DECISION SCIENCES, PRODUCTION,
FINANCE, MARKETING, ACCOUNTING 
Other fields offered include 
Economics and Public Policy, and Organizational Behavior.
Excellent opportunities for academic careers in research and teaching 
Call or write for admission and financial aid information.
Office of the Doctoral Program 
Graduate School of Business — Room 223 , 
Stanford University 
Stanford, California 94305 (415) 497-2831
ACUT
ABOVE.
(Presenting our Designer Diamond Collection.)*
\ $ jd * * This week only, ArtCarved presents its \k a ¦ dramatic new college ring concept for womenin 10K and 14K gold. On display only while the ArtCarved representative is on campus.
The new Designer Diamond Collection, . reflecting the importance, value, and rare beauty of genuine diamonds, is an - ArtCarved innovation. f
This collection is also available with a new \ V ' diamond substitute, Cubic Zirconia, which * TL ? creates the same dazzling elegance for less.
Whatever look is your look...
You'll look better with a 
Great "X" precision haircut I
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut and shape 
your hair from the “inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason- 
^ab,e Prices. Come into Great “X" today and 
Jti see how rnuch better you'll look tomorrow.
r?€fi*0ii
fwicnmons«PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS ^
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERMANENTS 
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1 1 00 *137 Atwood Stroot OCOO 
¦ ¦ Across the itrMt from 
Oakland Post Offlco 
647-3500
Mon.Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Frl. 10-9
S.,t ‘Mi UNISEX HAIR SALON No Appointments
^RT(7IRVED 8»f ^COLLEGE RINGS COLLECTION
Symbolizing your ability to achieve.
Wed Oct 29; Thurs Oct 30; Fri Oct 31
CMU Bookstore
*atao available with Cubic Zircnrea. a dumrod substitute.
IVpisii r*-quiri'<l Mastrr OurRr <* Visaacrrptfd ©1HW) ArtCarvi-d G Jlt-gr Ring*

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 13
A view from the left
Censorship and obsenity: the song remains the same
by Steve Rayshich
Last week I wrote an article for The Tar­
tan which was censored by the editorial staff. 
The word “f**k” (sic) was removed and the 
presence of “bullshit” drew an hour and a 
half debate. A month ago I played the Car­
sickness song “Bill Wilkerson” on WRCT. 
The lyrics include the lines “KKK f**k you, 
**KKK f**k you.” Not exactly the most intel­
lectual presentation in the world but cer­
tainly a forthright and appropriate 
statement. A caller protested, WRCT 
received a formal letter of complaint, and I 
received two warnings from the executive 
staff. Censorship! For the past fifty years the 
likes of James Joyce, Henry Miller, and Nor­
man Mailer have been fighting censorship 
and obscenity rulings in the federal courts; 
die irony of someone like Steve Rayshich 
being censored by WRCT and The Tartan 
*in 1980 is ridiculous.
This column is not meant as a putdown 
of The Tartan or WRCT staff. They have 
jobs to do and people to answer to, the 
Board of Trustees and the FCC to name a 
few. Earlier this week in a moment of self- 
righteous indignation I cried, “Well, let’s 
offend the Trustees then. F**k ’em if they 
can’t take a joke.” The matter goes beyond 
offending the Regents or the FCC, we must 
worry about offending the public.
1 This is the crux of the matter. Just what is 
offensive or obscene? The caller to WRCT 
complained because I played a song which 
featured the word f**k in its lyrics. The word 
offended him. The KKK offends me; I 
thought the sentiment fit well, the point 
well made. The ostensible reason for The 
Tartan printing “bullshit” and not f**k was 
that people were offended by the connota­
tions of the latter word.
Ah, I think I see what the problem is. We 
now come to a debate of just what is obs­
cene. In 1969, philosopher Herbert Marcuse 
wrote, “Obscene is not the picture of a naked 
woman exposing her pubic hair but that of 
a fully clad general who exposes his medals 
won in a war of aggression; obscene is not 
the^ ritual of the Hippies but the declaration 
by a high dignitary of the Church that war is 
necessary for peace.” Keep that in mind 
when Ronald Reagan clamors for stronger 
defense, more weapons, more COURAGE 
in our struggles with the USSR. Keep that 
in mind when religious organizations run 
S' TV specials claiming our military defense is 
too weak.
k Maybe you don’t buy that argument. 
Maybe you think swearing is unnecessary, 
this argument is pointless. You’re probably 
right but I’ll go on babbling anyway. In this
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
Pregnant? 
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
modem age of TV sexuality and TV heroes 
swearing has become necessary. The Car­
sickness song very aptly, very forcefully 
expressed a viewpoint, my “f**ks” were stra­
tegically placed for greatest impact. And 
they weren’t offensive! The connotations of 
the word f**k involve or imply sex; if you 
people are offended by the thought or men­
tion of sex maybe you should turn off 
WRCT, stop reading The Tartan, dropout 
of college, and go home to the possibilities 
of remedial puberty. The sex act is ostensi­
bly not an offensive act; it should be warm 
and loving and fun and mean all those other 
things you read about in the Birds and the 
Bees book your parents gave you when you 
were twelve or thirteen because they were too 
embarassed to come right out and tell you 
about the BOYS AND THE GIRLS.
Earlier, I (actually Herbert Marcuse) men­
tioned pictures of naked women exposing 
their pubic hair. PORNOGRAPHY! What 
do you think the purpose of pornography 
is? How about to provide vicarious sexual 
stimulation for all the confused people who 
believe the real thing really is offensive-or 
worse, unattainable? We find ourselves wor­
shiping airbrushed, over made up, overly 
perfect caricatures of sexuality because we 
spent all our subconcious lives watching 
TV commercials for perfume, hairspray, 
and mouthwash and believing our bodies 
(and ourselves) too dirty and smelly for sex 
with Hollywood beauties? We are taught 
that our bodies are offensive, therefore, sex (a 
physical act) must be offensive. GROW UP, 
AMERICA. Compared to words like 
napalm, racism, alienation, and loneliness, 
sex and f**k are two of the nicer forms I can 
think of.
When the Watergate Tapes were released 
a couple of years ago middle class Ameri­
cans were amazed and offended by the proc­
livity of “obscenities” used by our leaders.
How could Richard Nixon say that? What 
kind of a man was he?! Remember Nixon’s 
term “The Silent Majority”-good, honest, 
hardworking Americans who have no way 
to voice their opinions but silently support 
the maintenance of the status quo? Sure, you 
remember. The Silent Majority was 
offended to find out our President said the 
word f**k. Why weren’t we offended when 
Tïé invaded Cambodia without reason or 
warning, prolonged the Vietnam War for 
four more bloody years, sat in the White 
House watching NFL football while thou­
sands of protestors banged on the White 
House gates screaming for a chance to be
heard? How long will we continue to be 
offended by the connotations of f**k but 
find the connotations of napalm and the 
Neutron Bomb perfectly acceptable? We 
spend all our lives finding the harmless and 
natural offensive while quietly supporting 
(or ignoring, which is worse) the mechan­
ized destruction of man and mankind. 
Forget all that your preachers and parents 
taught you about “That kind of girl” and 
“dirty minds”; come into the Twentieth 
Century. As I said before, this argument is 
probably pointless. On the other hand, I was 
shocked to find that it still needed to be 
made.
A woman who needs help needs understanding...
At WHS you receive confidential.professional help in an atmosphereof understanding and warmth
• Free pregnancy tests• Free pregnancy counseling• Termination of unwanted 
pregnancy• Contraceptive care instructions• Gynecological checkups and Pap tests• Sexuality and marriage counseling• Self breast examination 
procedures
Venereal disease testing 
and treatment• Fertility referral
Women's Health Services
1209 Allegheny Tower
625 Stanwix Street *
Pittsburgh. PA 15222
(412) 562-1900 Monday-Saturday
(A non-profit, out-patient health facility)
Engineers: EE/ME/Software Development
Find out why Kearfott’s rarefied enviroi
We’ll be on your campus
Wednesday, November 5
You’ll hear all about some of the most sophisticated advances in the aerospace industry in which Kearfott has played an important role ... like the full-scale inertial navigation system program for the F-16 lightweight fighter... an inertial measurement unit and multiplexing equipment for the Space Shuttle orbiter.. . MRAALS, the most modern self-contained scanning beam system for landing all types of aircraft. . . . The list is virtually endless.
If you’re looking for a rarefied environment to try your wings ...THINK KEARFOTT. See your Placement Office for our company profile and to sign up for a one-on-one interview.
An equal opportunity employer, m/f, who creates opportunities
a division of The SIN C E R Company

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
Fall 1980 Final
Below is the Final Examination schedule times, or days, or to use the reading period, 
for the Fall 1980 Semester and a list of poli- In order to be fair to all members of a class 
cies adopted by the Faculty Senate last April and to the faculty, final examinations 
concerning the administration of final should be held as scheduled and according 
examinations. These policies have my to the policies, 
approval and I am writing to ask you to
observe the regulations both in spirit and to I want to emphasize a number of points in
the letter. the policy statement. All final examinations
At final exam time, reasons are put forth should be given in the final exam period 
by both students and faculty to change and the reading day should not be used for
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-110Perspectives of BiologyThu Dei 185:30-7:30DH 121203-121Modern BiologyMon Dec 151:00-4:00DH 111203-240Cel I BiologyFri Dee 191:00-4:00ScH 540303-243Exp Tech On Mol BioTir* Dec 168:30-10:30MI 35503-380VirologyMon Dec 158:30-11:30ScH 530203-432Biochemistry IIThu Dei 185:30-8:30SH 12503-439Intro to BiophysicsFri Dee 198:30-10:30ScH 532003-442Molec Bio EukaryotesF'ri Dec 198:30-11:30ScH 531603-732Biochemistry IIThu Dec 185:30-8:30SH 12503-742Mol« Bio EukarystcsFri Dec 198:30-11:30ScH 531603-780VirologyMon Dec 158:30-11:30ScH 5302
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-151ThermodynamicsTue Dec 168:30-11:30ScH 5320 
ScH 5403 
Sc H 5 41906-210Chemical Engr IIFri Dec 191:00-4:00HH10 
HH 11
06-301Appi Reactn KineticsFri Dee 191:00-4:00DH 1112 
DH 121206-705Appi Ch E ThermodynMon Dec 158:30-11:30DH 121106-706Adv Prex Engr & DesTue Dec 168:30-10:30DH 212206-709Polymeric Materials Mon Dec 15
CHEMISTRY
8:30-11:30DH 2105 
DH 2122
09-103Atoms Mol Chem ClingWeil Dec 175:30-8:30DH 2105
09-105Dynamic s 8c Ec|iiilibTue Dec 168:30-11:30ScH 7500 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH 2210 
DH 2315 
PH 100
09-106Bonding Struct PrineTue De e 165:30-8:30DH 1212
Oí)-117Organic Chemistry IWeil De e 175:30-8:30ScH 7500
09-218Organic Chemistry IIWeil Dee 178:30-11:30DH 1112
09-243Physcl Chemistry IIMon Der 158:30-11:30Sc H 5310 
Sc H 5320 
ScH 5403 
Sc H 5419
09-405Indus Organic ChemWed Dee 175:30-8:30DH 1212
09-441Nuclcar & RadicxltcmThu Dee 181:00-4:00DH 1212
09-509Phys Chem Mac romolecl ue Dee 168:30-11:30ScH 5301 
Sc H 5316
09-731Radicxhcmistry Thu Dec 18
CIVIL ENGINEERING
1:00-4:00DH 1212
12-203Systems Engr 1Thu De e 185:30-8:30PH 123H
12-207StaticsWed Dee 178:30-11:30BH 131
12-330Fluid Mechanics IWeil De e 175:30-8:30SH 125
12-639Trffc Flow Theo 0|x rWed De e 171:00-3:00PH I23H
12-744Project ManagementTue Dee 168:30-10:30PH 123H
12-781Engr Bella Prop SoilsMon Der 158:30-11:30PH 123H
Examinations in graduate courses not listed are to $10 scheduled in 
examination period.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
i the werk priorto the regula
15-104Intro to Computing A1 11 il Dee 181:00-4:00ScH 7500 
DH 2210 
DH 231515-MIIntro to Computing BThu Dee 181 :(K)-1:00Sell 7500 
DH 2210 
DH 231515-211Fund Struc ProgramngMon D« c 151:00-1:00DH 231515-301Combmaul AnalysisFri De e 191:00-4:00St H 5419 
Sc 11 512715-312Cmpm Prgnimg I-mgWed Dee 175:30-8:30DH 231515-380Intro Arifc 1 ItiteliI hn De< 188:30-11:30BH 23115-412Ojxiating Systems l ue Dec 16 8:30-11:30
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
MM 1 1
18-101I.ineai Circ nil AnalMon IVe 155:30-7:30DH 2210 
DH 231518-113Elec trical Engr IAFilli Dee 188:30-10:30S< 11 7500 
DII 121218-201Field Analysis EngrTue Dee 168:30-11:301111 10 
HH II
PH 225C18-221Electronic Circuits \V<tl Dec 17
MATHEMATICS
8:30-11:30S« 11 7500
21-105Pre-Calc ulusTir* Dee Iti8:30-11:30BH 23121-111Calculus I (IIRrSS)Fri IVe 198:30-11:30HH 10 
lili II21-112Calc ulus II (HfcS.S)Wed IVe 178:30-11:30SH 12521-121Calc ulus IWeil Dee 178:30-11:30DII 2210 
DII 2315 
PH 100 
1III 10 
HH II21-122Calc ulus IIFri Dee 191:00-1:00Sc 11 7500 
DII 2315
21-1 11Cmpml I.in AlgebraFilli Dee 185:30-8:30Sc 11 7500 
DH 2210
Exam Schedule <
exams or other scheduled events. The stu- classes. Some professors wish to use take- 
dents want and should have this one day free home final exams. The policy states that 
of all assignments to prepare themselves for such exams shall be given for any 24 hour 
their examinations. Faculty members period of the student’s choosing during the
final exam period.
should not exert or submit to pressures to
move an exam so that people can leave ear- There may be compelling reasons for a 
her. Critiques and juries should not be sche- faculty member to request exceptions from 
duled on the last day of classes and papers the policy statements. All such requests 
should be due no later than the last day of should be made to Dr. Edward R. Schatz,
21-255Advanced Calculus IWe d Dec 175:30-8:30ScH 540321-259Mthcls Appl Math IFri Dec 198:30-11:30DH 2210
21-273Mcxlern Algebra IFri Dec 191:00-1:00
DH 2315 
PH 100 
SH 12521-292Operations Re searc hWed Dec 178:30-11:30DH 1212
21-30!Combinator AnalysisFri Dei 191:00-1:00
MM 14 
ScH 5419
21-369Numerical McthcxlsThu Dec 181:00-4:00
ScH 5427 
SH 12521-371F'unt Complx VariableMon Dec 158:30-11:30ScH 533621-476Orel Dili EquationsWe-d Dec 178:30-11:30Sc H 531021-483OptimizationThu Dec 188:30-11:30HH 10
21-484Applied Graph TheoryMon Dec 158:30-11:30
HH 11
SH 125 
ScH 542721-551Mathcmatc l Logic IThu Dec 185:30-8:30Sc H 5320
24-102
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Statics Dfrm Solids Fri Dec 19 8:30-11:30SFI 206 ;
24-121'I*hermcxlynamics IMon Dec 158:30-11:30HH 10
24-202Mec h Dfrmbl SolidsWed Dec 178:30-10:30
HH 11
PH 225C 
SH 206
24-215Polentl Flow AercxlynWed Dec 171:00-4:00
SH 212 
SH 220 
SH 224 
SH 422
24-223Thermcxlynamics IIFri Dei 198:30-11:30SH 125
24-224Thermal Systems AnalFri Dec 198:30-11:30
BH 231
SH 125
24-233Heat TransferFri Dec 191:00-4:00
BH 231 
SH 206
24-245Dynamics Physcl SystTue Dec 168:30-11:30
SH 212 • 
SH 206
24-266Engineering DesignMon Dec 158:30-11:30
SH 212 
SH 220 
SH 224 
SH 206
27-105
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
Materials Technology Me>n Dec 15 1:00-4:00
SH 212 
SH 220
DH A317
27-111ThcrmexlynamicsTue Dec 168:30-11:30DH A317
27-131Materials Sc ienceA Thu Dei 185:30-8:30HH 10
27-213Thermexlynamics II
B Thu Dec 18 
C Thu Dec 18 
Tue Dec 16
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
DH 1112 
PH 100 
DH 1211
27-331Physcl Metallurgy IWed De c 171:00-4:00
DH 1217 
Sc H 7500
27-441Merli Behac Matls OFri Dee 198:30-11:30DH A317
27-529Meli li Sicelmkng PrexWeil De c 178:30-11:30DH A317
3.3-115Intrcxluc tory Physics
PHYSICS
Mon De c 155:30-8:30ScH 5316
33-121Physic s I Mee bailie sMon Dee 158:30-11:30ScH 7500
33-122Physics II lit Wv OptMon Dee 155:30-8:30
DH 1112 
DH 2210 
DH 2315 
PH 100 
BH 231 
BH 232F 
SH 125 
DH A317 
Sc H 7500
33-123Physic >> IIIThu Dee 188:30-11:30DI I 1112
3.3-123Physic s Flee Mag (S-P)Thu Dec 188:30-11:30
DH 2210 
DH 2.315 
PH 1(H) 
BH 232F
33-127Physics III 11 il is EifcMTue Dec lt>8:30-11:30Sell 5310
33-130Plu se 1 Mec hanic s IMon De c 155:30-8:30Se ll 5403
3.3-135Mcxlern Physic s IITue Dee 168:30-11:30
Se ll 5119 
Sc 11 5 127
Sc 11 5.328
33-137Inimici Flee & Mag ITil u-I)ir 188:30-11:30
Se ll 53.36 
Sell 8127
33-111ThermodynamicsMon De e 158:30-11:30Sell 7.316
33-153intermediate Optic sWed Dee 178:30-11:30Sell 8127
33-163S|xrial RelativityFri Dec 198:30-11:30Sc h 8127
33-755Quantum Mechanics IMon De c 158:30-1 l:3QSc 11 5328
33-757Classic al Me c bailie sFile Dee l(i8:30-11:30Sell 8127
3.3-765Slatistc l Mec hanic sMon De e 158:30-11:30Sc 1 i li 123
.3.3-769Quantum Mee line s IIIFile Dec lb8:30-11:30Sell 7316
36-101Sial C inc pis ( imp Appi
STATISTICS
Mon Dee 158:30-11:30DII 4212
36-209Pi 1» App Sia Mg SS 1A Wetl Dee 175:30-8:30DII 2210
36-211Prb App Si Pli S&E I
B Will Dec 17 
C We el Dec 17 
Fite* Dec 16
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
1:00-1:00
PH 100 
HH 10
Sc 11 7500
36-215
36-217
Mon Dee 15
Pioli Random Process
8:30-11:30 
Fri Dec 19
DII 1212 
8:30-11:30Sc 11 7500
36-219Sial Mill Data An 11 lie Dec 165:30-8:30Sc 11 :» 103
.36-225S|K*e Fop Statistic sWed De c 171:00-1:00Sc II 5316

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 15
Provost and Vice President for Academic 
Affairs, at extension 2053 or 2054.
In my opinion there are sound educa­
tional reasons for giving a final examina­
tion in most courses. The policies which we 
have adopted will give students the best 
opportunity to prepare properly and do well 
in a very important part of the course.
Richard M. Cyert, President
Policy
The Faculty Senate adopted the following 
policies on the administration of final exam­
inations for undergraduate courses:
1. All final exams shall be given in the 
final exam period.
2. The reading day and weekend preced­
ing exams shall never be used for exam pur­
poses of any kind.
30-319Atlv Data Analysis ITue Di t 168:30-11:30PH 125C
PH 125D30-751Statistical Meth IMon Dec 158:30-11:30ScH 5316
CIT INTERDISCIPLINARY
39-212Anal Synth Kvalua II CEFri Dei 191:00-4:00PH 126B
BIOMEDICAL ENGINERING
42-500PhysiologyTue 2mi lo1:00-3:00ScH 5403
52-735PhysiologyTue 2mi lo1:00-3:00ScH 5403
MUSIC
57-151Harmony IFri Dee 198:30-10:30MM 103
57-153Harmony IIMon Dee 151:00-3:00FA 107
57-101Kurythmies IWed Dee 175:30-9:30MM 119
57-103Kurythmirs IIWed Dee 178:30-12:30MM 119
57-173History of Musir ITue Dee 168:30-10:30MM 103
57-181Solfege IA Mon Dee 158:30-9:30MM 114
B Mon Dec 159:30-10:30MM 114
C.’ Mon Dec 1510:30-11:30MM 114
D Mon Dec 1511:30-12:30MM 114
57-203History of Music IITue Dec 168:30-10:30FA 160
57-255(kmntcrpoint IFri Dec 198:30-10:30FA 160
57-257Orchestration IMon Dec 158:30-10:30FA 157
57-205Counterpoint IIMon Dec 158:30-10:30FA 160
57-334Choral ConductingWed Dec 171:00-3:00MM 119
57-441Keyboard Harmony IThu Dec 188:30-12:30FA 160
57-413Keyboard Harmony IIWed 178:30-12:30FA 160
57-901Intro to Grad StudMon Dec 15 .8:30-10:30FA 107
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
00-203Ntlsm Mtrlsm Tr BourThu Dec 185:30-8:30BH 245
60-204Unity Pwr Chg Ft EurWed Dec 171:00-4:00BH 245
06-221Cult Con Am I.ife LitWed Det 171:00-4:00BH 232F
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101Eleni Industri AdminA Thu 2mi ln5:30-8:30PH 225C
B rhu Dec 185:30-8:30PH 225C
70-121Accounting ITue Dec 165:30-8:30PH 100
BH 231
70-15Kndmntls InsuranceTue Dec 165:30-8:30BH 131
70-160Intro Gra Cmnrtns ITue Det 161:00-4:00SH 220
70-192Graph Qimmun ProcessFri 2mi lr8:30-11:30PH 225B
70-311Orgn/.tnl Behavior IA Tue Dec 168:30-11:30BH 232F
B Tue Dec 168:30-11:30BH 131
CTue Dit 168:30-11:30BH 229B
D Tue Det 168:30-11:30BH 235A
70-332Govemnmt & BusinessWed Dit 171:00-4:00DFI 1112
DH12I2
70-335Business and LiborTue Det 161:00-1:00BH 231
70-303Liw in Mdrn Amer SotA Tue Dec 165:30-8:30ScH 7500
B Tue Dec 165:30-8:30DH 1112
70-381Marketing IA Mon Det 15800-11:30BH 131
B Mon Dec 158:30-11:30BH 229B
BH 235A
70-122Cost ArrouniingFri Det 198:30-11:30BH 131
70-151Electronic Data PrtxWeil Det 178:30-11:30PH 125B
70-520Pub Rei Indus AdminWed Dec 178:30-11:30PH 126C
70-631Graph Commun MatlsMon Dei 1581.30-11:30PH 126C
73- 1(H)
73- 1(H)
73-2.50
73-300
73-3-10
73-3.'»H
73-359
73-300
73-370
70-101
70-220
70-2.30
70-211
Prim of Kron $ai $se$$$
ECONOMICS
Wed Der 171:00-1:00
Prim of Krön Irr II 
Iiitenned Mien neon
Wed Det 17 
A Moil Dei 15 
B Moil Det 
C Mon Det 
I) Moil Det 
K Mon Der 
K Mon Det
15
15
ir>
15
lineimeli Mat nxton 
I .aboi Kroiiomirs 
Kron Knvni Nalur Res 
Benefit-Cost Analy 
Econome! lit s 
Internali Economies
Kit lion and Fai I
I.il .nid Odici Ails 
Bl>lt I Myth BkKid I.it
Uni Det 
Mon Der 
I hn Det 
Mon Der 
Mon Det 
I hn Det
I!
18
15
18
15
15
18
ENGLISH
Shakcs|x*arc
70-270 Piolession.il Writing
A I lm Dii 18 
B I hn Dee 18 
C I Im Det 18 
Um Di t 18 
A I lm Dei 18 
B I hn Det 18 
A I lm Det 18 
B I hn Dit 18 
C I lm Dei 18 
D I lui Dei 18 
A.B Moli Dei 15 
D Mon Det 15
1:00-1:00
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
1:00-1:00
1:00-1:00
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-7:30
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
I :(H)- 1:(H)
I :(H)-1 :<H) 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
1(H)- l:(H)
I :(H)- l:(H)
St il 5310 
Sili 5320 
ScH 5 103 
ScH 5119 
St il 5127 
BH 131 
DH 2210 
BH 231 
BH 131 
PII 225C 
SH 220 
DH 2122 
IA 213 
PII 1(H) 
PII 120A 
BII 131 
BH 232K 
PH 125C 
PII 120A
BH 255A 
PI I 225B 
St 11 5.330 
III.
PII 220C 
PII 220B 
Bl I 215 
PII 120A 
PII I20B 
PII I20C 
Bl I 255B 
Bll 220C
3. Faculty shall not exert or submit to 
pressures to move an exam so that people 
can leave earlier.
4. No student shall be required to take 
more than two exams on a given finals day; 
the registrar shall assist the student in resolv­
ing conflicts.
5. No critiques or juries shall be scheduled
6. Papers shall be made due no later than 
on the last day of classes.
7. Take-home final exams shall be given 
for any 24 hour period of the student’s 
choosing during the final exam period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy 
should be made to Dr. Edward R. Schatz, 
Provost and Vice President for Academic
on the last day of classes.Affairs.
76-320AutobiographyFri Dec 191:00-4:00BH 255A
76-331Medieval LiteratureTue Dec 168:30-11:30BH 245
76-341British DramaThu Dec 188:30-11:30PH 226C
76-351The New Non-FictionTue Dec 168:30-11:30BH 235B
76-371Rhetor Soc InteractnKri Dec 198:30-11:30PH 226C
76-372Journalism IMon Dec 151:00-4:00BH 229B
76-390Intro Linguist AnalMon Der 158:30-11:30BH 225A
76-131Greek TragedyMon Der 158:30-11:30BH 255B
76-442KliotKri Der 198:30-11:30BH 255B
76-720AutobiographyFri Der 191:00-4:00BH 255A
76-731Medieval LitTue Det 168:30-11:30BH 245
76-741British DramaThu Dec 188:30-11:30BH 226C
76-751The New' Non-KielTue Dec 168:30-11:30BH 235B
76-771Rhetor Soc InteractnKri Dec 198:30-11:30PH 226C
76-772Journalism IMon Dec 151:00-4:00BH 229B
76-790Intro Linguist AnalMon Dec 158:30-11:30BH 255A
76-831Greek TragedyMon Dec 158:30-11:30BH 255B
76-842KliotFri Dec 198:30-11:30BH 255B
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shap Wstrn Civ IIA Wed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 107A
B Wed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 107B
C Wed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 225B
79-103American CivA Wed Dec 171:00-3:00BH 131
B Wed Dec 171:00-3:00BH 229B
79-110Orgns of Mdrn WrldMon Dec 151:00-3:00DH 2210
PH 100
79-120Pwr & Val Amer CivTue Dec 161:00-3:00DH 2315 
PH 100
79-212.Scient OutlookWed Dec 178:30-10:30PH 226B
79-215Dynam Kurop SocWed Dec 175:30-7:30SH 212
79-220Contemp AmericaMon Dec 158:30-10:30PH 107B
79-226Tchnlgy in Wstrn CivTue Dec 165:30-7:30BH 254A
79-300The Hist WorkshopWed Dec 178:30-10:30HL
79-310The Amer PresidencyTue Dec 161:00-3:00PH 226A
79-315Hstry Pgh RegWed Dec 171:00-3:00HL
79-322Crime Just Am HstThu Dec 181.00-3:00PH 226A
79-332China TodayMon Dec 158:30-10:30BH 254A
79-370Modern RussiaFri 2mi lr8:30-10:30PH 226B
PHILOSOPHY PROGRAM
Phil Mthds
Six' ValA Fri Dec 191:00-3:00PH 100
B Fri Dec 191:00-3:00PH 100
D Fri Dit 191:00-3:00PH 100
K Kri Dec 191:00-3:00PH 100
C: Kri 2mi lr1:00-3:00BH 232K
K Kri Dec 191:00-3:00BH 235A
80-160Intro to LogicTue Dec 168:30-10:30PH 126B
80-300Phil & KnowledgeMon Dec 151:00-3:00PH 226A
80-350Found Norm Theo'Witl Dit 178:30-10:30PH 226A
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
82-101Elementary KrenchWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 226B
82-103Programmed FrenchTue Dec 161:00-3:00BH 245
82-121Klementary GermanWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 226A
82-124Elem Ger. Rdg KnowWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 126B
82-141Elementary SpanishWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 226C
82-161Elementary ItalianThu Dec 181:00-3:00PH 225B
82-201Int French Cult SocMon Dec 151:00-3:00PH 226B
82-202Int French Cult SocWed Dec 171:00-3:00BH 235A
82-221Int German Cult SocWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 225C
82-241Int Spanish Cult SocMon Dec 158:30-10:30PH 226A
82-261Intermediate ItalianThu Dec 181:00-3:00BH 235B
82-321German Cnvrstn CompWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 126C
82-341Spanish Cnvrstn CmpThu Dec 181:00-3:00PH 225C
82-415Studies French LitWed Dec 178:30-10:30BH 235A
82-455St Span Latin Am LitWed Dec 171:00-3:00PH 126 A
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-100Cog Proc Theo 8c PractTue Dec 165:30-7:30
85-101General PsychologyTue Dec 161:00-4:00
85-211Cognitive PsychologyA Tue Dec 165:30-8:00
B Tue Dec 165:30-8:30
C Tue Dec 165:30-7:00
85-213Inf Prc Psy Artf IntMon Dec 155:30-6:30
85-221Princ Child DevlpmntFri Dec 198:50-10:00
85-231Physiological PsychMon Dec 151:00-4:00
85-251Intro to PersonalityWed Dec 178:30-11.00
85-310Rsch Mthds Cog PsychMon Dec 158:30-10:30
85-340Rsth Mthds Sor PsyrhFri Dec 198:30-11:30
85-335Abnormal Child PsyrhThu Dec 188:30-11:30
85-411Ck)g Pror 8c Prim SolvTue Dec 168:30-11:30
85-414PerceptionWed Det 171:00-4:00
85-457Behav ior ControlTue Det 168:30-10:30
SOCIAL SCIENCE
88-102Der Pr Aniel Pol InstFri Dit 191:00-1:00
88-2<H)Int Models smd St iMon Dei 151:00-1:00
88-201OrganizationsFini Dit 188:30-11:30
88-300Pol An I An Mtl Po AnFri Di t 198:30-11:3088-750OrganizationsFluì Dei 188:30-11 .30
DH 2315 
DH 2210 
DH 2210 
HH 10 
HH II 
BH 340A 
BH 340A 
BH 340A 
SCH 7500 
BH 340A 
BH 331 
MM 15 
BH 254A 
BH 540A 
PH 125D 
BH 3S6B
DH 2210 
BH 231 
BH 131
PH 225C 
PH 225C 
PH 225C 
PH 225C

---------------------------------------------------

n-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON GROUNDS
CMU’s new 
party place,
presents the hottest 
bands in Pittsburgh!
HALLOWEEN PARTY 
band “Aura”
GRAND OPENING 
Nuts and Bolts Party 
band “Toiz”
ROCK AND ROLL 
NIGHT
band “Le Slick”
Located in Morewood Gardens
Presented by the Marriott Corp./AB Dance 
Residence Life/SDC Programming
Oct. 31 
Nov. 7 
Nov. 21

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.Stardust succeeds
by Davidson Thomson
In his new movie, Stardust Memories, 
Woody Allen pushes his favorite theme of 
twentieth century angst and despair right 
into the forefront—he won’t let us get away 
this time, thinking that we’ve just had a 
good laugh. The film is a sister to his last 
three, Annie Hall, Interiors and 
Manhattan—well-made esthetic pieces that 
deal, in one way or another, with this 
despair.
Annie Hall was the last Woody Allen film 
that everyone enjoyed; it seemed to be the 
final work of his comic period with a new 
radiance and unexpected poignancy. 
Annie’s neurotic rambling, her depressed 
drive toward talent and creativity, and the 
failure of her reladonship, were all symp­
toms of despair. Allen masked his themes 
with comedy until his next film, Interiors, a 
Bergman rip-off in which everyone was so 
melodramatically messed up and so exces­
sively unable to cope with life that they 
seemed to be enjoying it all. In Manhattan, 
tragedy mixed with comedy to become the 
stylish sadnesss of a wealthy New York 
intelligensia—a great work, but so elitist 
that few people really liked it.
Stardust Memories, goes further than any 
of these films, and in its images and crazy- 
rough structure, takes us right back to the 
beginning of the Allen opus to prove that 
this kind of material is what he has been 
getting at all along. It is the pinnacle of his 
career.
The film particularly resembles Take the 
Money and Run, with the same unpolished 
wackiness. The old image of Woody as a 
little boy is here. This time he’s doing magic 
tricks, first, in a nightclub full of grotesque 
patrons like the characters from Fellini’s 
8%—and then later, performing at dusk on a 
bare hill, like something out of The Seventh 
Seal. It’s the same image from Take the 
Money, the same clumsy comedy, but now 
cast in a painful light.
Allen quotes these two geniuses of twen­
tieth century despair throughout the film. 
Their style, mixed with the material that 
we’ve seen in other Allen films, gives birth to 
a new black comedy that is perfectly suited 
to his message. He’s merely clarified the 
pain I have suspected of being in his work
from the beginning. And surprisingly, the 
clear articulation of his meaning streng­
thens rather than weakens it. Allen has hit 
upon the perfect mid-ground between the 
understatement of the comedies and the 
dreadful overstatement of Interiors.
Stardust Memories has a very complicated 
structure of flashbacks, film-clips, and 
straight action that heightens its surreal 
quality. The plot, for what it is,
Sandy Bates (Allen), a film-maker 
just made a serious film to the consternation 
of his agents, critic-friends, and studio heads 
who want him to keep making 
This infuriates him, because as an artist he 
wants to express the world he sees around 
him, which is one of fruitless striving and 
despair (Sound familiar?). A critic invites 
him to a weekend seminar at the Stardust 
Hotel, in which his work will be featured, 
and he reluctandy accepts. And we’re off and 
running in the glorious blur that makes up 
the rest of the film.
In that blur we follow Sandy through 
three relationships. The three women, Dorie 
(Charlotte Rampling), Daisey (Jessica 
Harper), and Isobel (Marie-Christine Bar­
rault) illustrate two poles of womanhood, 
Daisey and Dorie being essentially the same 
woman at different stages in life. Isobel is the 
earth mother—solid and about as secure as it 
is possible in Allen’s universe to be, nicely 
plump with her two children in tow. Daisey 
and Dorie are the sexy neurotics, one young, 
but already confused and unhappy, and the 
other on the way to total collapse. Sandy, of 
course, is drawn to the pain in these two, 
although he’s aware of the goodness in 
Isobel and wants, at least intellectually, to be 
with her. Dorie is Sandy’s old flame, and we 
see her only in (very powerful) flashbacks; 
Isobel comes next appearing at the hotel 
having just left her husband for Sandy.
Then Daisey and her pain come onto the 
scene, and Sandy sees enough of Dorie in her 
to whisk her off to the movies—they see The 
Bicycle Thief. This is followed by a discus­
sion about the dilemma of the affluent man. 
Allen postulates the twentieth century man, 
robbed erf the chance to worry about survi­
val, has time to throw around the less essen­
tial ultimately more destructive questions of 
continued on page 18Beck concert excels
by Alan Spero
On October 15, DiCesare-Engler Produc­
tions brought to the Stanley Theatre one of 
the finest concerts ever presented there in the 
past two and a half years. Jeff Beck, on tour 
in support of his newest album, There and 
Back, proved to be the master musician his 
legendary reputation has claimed him to be.
Seeing Jeff Bede in concert is experienc­
ing the history of the guitar in rock itself; he 
displays an amazing amalgam of styles that 
date back to his early beinnings with the 
Yardbirds over fifteen years ago. While the 
other two Yardbird guitarists, Eric Clapton 
and Jimmy Page, found their own musical 
niches to dig themselves into, Beck never 
allowed his musical character to harden. He 
changed groups almost yearly throughout 
the late sixties and early seventies, deriving 
and continually expapdinghis eclectic abili­
ties until now, in 1980, Beck has emerged as 
one of the ultimate exponents of the electric 
guitar.
Class and sophistication is the aura'Beck 
enshrouds himself with, and although il 
seems a contradiction with the normal Cro- 
Magnon characteristics of a rock show, he is • 
st>ll a -Kx-ker at heart. On stage. Beck moves 
furiously, diving in and out of dramatic 
|X)ses, smashing his guitar on the floor, or 
snapping the neck-of his guitar back while 
his fingers go into a frenzy' on the strings. 
Yet. although his pyrotec hnics are dynamic 
and exciting, they aren’t without musical
Russian actress to speak
merit. Beck does not make noise. When he 
slams the butt of his guitar into the floor, it 
brings out an incredible tone in the next 
note of the solo. Everything he does counts; 
he never loses the melody.
The lighting for the show was also the 
most imaginitive I’ve ever seen employed 
during a concert. It never overpowered or 
shocked the audience with a fiery explosion, 
but always underlined • the mood or 
expressed the energy of each song.
The show began with a myriad of white 
lights twinkling in blackness as the opening 
keyboard riff to “Starcycle” whirled in. Beck 
continued through three other songs off 
There and Back, “El Becko,” “The Pump,” 
and “Space Boogie.” His slide leads sliced 
through the intricate fusion backdrop layed 
down by his band, who were the same musi­
cians as on the new album (minus Jan 
Hammer). '
Brt’k’s music is hard to classify. When 
performing Roy /Buchanan’s “Cause We’ve 
Ended as Lovers,” Beck has the melodic 
touch and mellow virtuosity of Carlos San­
tana. (The previously mentioned lighting 
also added much mood to the number. 
Somber pools of green light criss-crossed 
behind Beck while the backdrop faded back 
aixl forth between blue and red),. But when 
he chums up the'tfink-rock of “Led Boots,” 
Beck becomes as fiery as Jimi Hendrix. His 
solos bite and twiu\g with rhythmic speed.
continued on page 19
by Kim Kunkle
Victoria Fyodrova, an actress and 
model whose emigration to the Unites 
States from Russia to be united with her 
father, Admiral in the U.S. Navy, in 1975 
made headlines around the world, will be 
speaking at CMU tomorrow night at 8 in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
Victoria, recipient of the ‘Best Young 
Actress Award’ of the Soviet Institute of 
Cinematography in 1969, the Golden 
Prize and International Cinema critics 
Award in Moscow in 1965, and Grand 
Prix at the 1965 Cannes Film Festival, has 
acted in many films in Russia, and has 
begun her acting career in the U.S. in an 
episode of ‘Medical Center’ written espe­
cially for her, and a television docudrama 
about a Russian poetess. She also models, 
having been a beauty image for Charles 
of the Ritz—Alexandra de Markoff cos-Curtaincall-
Poe
A production of the Pittsburgh Metro­
politan Stage Company (Metro). A new 
play by CMU graduate, Michael Cook, 
based on the life and writings of Edgar 
Allan Poe.
The musical play is a dream montage 
in which Poe’s real-life associates appear 
as characters in his macabre stories and 
poems. A full score of songs, incidental 
music, and sound effects has been com­
posed by Dave:Knapp and Guy Wincester 
of Art Now (see ^he October 14 issue of 
The Tartan for story on these CMU stu­
dents) and will be performed live.
Poe features the same cast as that of 
Metro’s successful opening production, 
Waiting For Godot; Steven Levy, Jim 
Boerlin, Susan Chagelc Shirley Tannen- 
baum, a Metro regular, will also be in 
Poe.
Shows are at the Old Post Office 
Museum in Allegheny Center. Reserva­
tion are encouraged as seating is limited. 
_The show opens Halloween Nfght with 
an iTiviiation for the audience to come in 
costume and enjoy an after play recep-
metics since 1976.
Her mother Zoya Fyodrova, a famous 
Russian actress, was in a concentration 
camp for 11 years because of her affair 
with the admiral. When Victoria finally 
found out her father’s identity, she tried 
to make contact with him; he was quite 
ill, and, when he heard from Victoria, 
worked determinedly to bring his daugh­
ter to the United States. Their efforts suc­
ceeded in 1975. Her autobiography, a 
bestseller in the U.S., has been published 
in many other countries as well, and Vic­
toria has made numerous guest appear­
ances on television shows such as ‘Good 
Morning America,’ ‘Today,’ and ‘The 
Mike Douglas Show.’
She will talk about her life, and the 
differences in the film cultures of the U.S. 
and Russia, as well as answering ques­
tions from the audience
tion. The show will continue through 
November 23. Shows are Thursday 
through Sunday nights at 8 PM. 683-3993
Dancin’
Currently in its third year of an enor­
mously successful Broadway run, Bo'r 
Fosse’s dance extravangansa comes to 
Heinz Hall as part of the 1980-81 Broad- 
>vay Theatre Series.
Dancin’ features a company of eight­
een dancers and singers. The music and 
lyrics in this musical are by a variety of 
artists, ranging from Neil Diamond to 
Johann Sebastian Bach.
A unique form of musical entertain­
ment, Dancin’ features the inimitable 
dance style of Bob Fosse, who won his 
eighth Tony Award for his choreography 
of this mj'isicaL —
~lJaticin' tfill play October j^7 through 
November I. Evening perforfitances are 
at 8 PM, and Wednesday and. Saturday 
matinees am at 2. Tickets ran^ from $16 
to $7, and are available at Hei(&Hall and 
Kaufmann’s. Call 392-4835 for more 
information.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—October 28, 1980The Elephant Man: Merrick’s life shines on film
by Tennyson Bard well
Physically he was a revolting sight. He 
carried, on various sections of his 5-foot-2 
frame, mounds of loose flabby flesh, His feet 
were stumpish and he required a cane. His * 
right arm and hand were enlarged to the 
point of uselessness. His cranial bones were 
malformed and bulging, making his skull 
m easurement equal to that of his waist. His 
speech was impeded by a mouth that could 
not close. He earned a substinence by being 
observed...stared at...laughed at. He 
quenched a morbid thirst. He was a freak! 
His name was Joseph Merrick, but to all 
who paid to see him, he was the “Elephant 
Man.”
Bom outside of London in 1862, Merrick 
would live only 29 years. The drastic defor­
mity from which he made a living caused 
his final demise. Why this deformity 
occured is not completely understood. 
Joseph Merrick wrote in his autobiography 
that his deformity was the result of his 
mother being knocked down and frightened 
by an elephant during her pregnancy.
And that nightmarish image serves as the 
opening scene of the new motion picture, 
The Elephant Man. The film is a bio­
graphy, and in this respect it is a bit skimpy. 
It chooses to leave out some vital factors in 
Merrick’s like. As a child his ailment was 
undetectable. The shock of its early develop­
ment stages is never covered. Neither is the 
death of his beautiful mother and the subse­
quent cruelty of his father’s new wife.
The picture deals instead with; Merrick’s
(John Hurt) unique relationship with his 
physician and friend, Dr. Treeves (Anthony 
Hopkins), and his creative talents and 
touching sensitivity that seem almost 
impossible attributes for a man that was 
treated like a beast.
Despite a dragging plot, the film does 
tum some memeorable moments. When the 
“Elephant Man” is cornered in a bathroom 
by an inhuman mob, he screams in despara- 
tion, “I am not an animal...I am a human 
being... I am a man!” And indeed he was a 
man, though all his physical attributes 
denied it. He wrote poetry, read the bible, 
entertained famous women and glittered 
with a kingly zest for life. And despite all the 
beatings, mockerys and humiliations, he 
still encased a heart of gold. He forgave, he
aprreciated and he loved. He was a kind and 
gentle soul forced by his physique to sleep in 
a sitting position, his head between his 
knees.
The softness of Merrick as contrasted with 
the harshness of others upon his is well put 
across in The Elephant Man. Hurt and 
Hopkins work well together, each deliver­
ing a well rounded performance. Hurt was 
especially powerful when he so believably 
displayed Merrick’s courage and unfading 
faith in God.
Also handled well is the freak show 
sequence. Freak shows have always aroused 
an embarrasing curiosity in us all. The sight 
of human deformity, though a guilt ridden 
experience, is one that is easily welcomed. In 
the picture, your first encounter with the 
“Elephant Man” is just a glimpse, it teases 
your shameful desire to witness the gro­
tesque. Later, when Merrick proves a lova­
ble man of greatness, you blush at your own 
insensitive instincts.
Merrick once wrote of himself;
Tis true my form is something odd,
But blaming me is blaming God;
Could I create myself anew 
I would not fail in pleasing you
If 1 could reach from pole to pole 
Or grasp the ocean with a span,
I would be measured by the soul 
The minds the standard of the man 
And within this pure and noble 
standard, there is not a more appealing 
man.Jeff
Beck
continued from page 17
With the exception of the weak rendition 
of “Freeway Jam,” each succeeding song 
picked up in energy. “Scatterbrain,” from 
the Blow by Blow album, was truly pheno­
menal to watch, all four musicians (Beck, 
Mo Foster on bass, Simon Phillips on 
drums, Tony Hymas on keyboards) franti­
cally racing up the melody line at breakneck 
speed. This was followed by a powerful 
drum solo, and then broke into the familiar 
chords of “Blue Wind,” Beck’s best fusion 
rocker, and the definitive highlight of the 
concert. His stratocaster whirled and 
whined for ten minutes to climax the song, 
each succeeding solo seeming more electrify­
ing than the last.
Beck came out for two encores. During 
the first he did about half of “Goodbye Pork 
Pie Hat” and then rocked into an unfamil­
iar progression. For the final number, he 
dug up an old blues-wailer, “I’m Going 
Down,” showing himself to be, above all, 
the quintessential rock guitarist.
When one thinks about it, the most amaz­
ing aspect of Jeff Beck’s show was that it was 
99% instrumental, yet a hundred times more 
exciting than most “regular” rock concerts. 
The sold-out audience was with Beck all the 
way, even during his most mellow 
moments. That he could successfully enter­
tain a vastly heterogeneous crowd with his 
guitar playing for over an hour and a half, 
proves Jeff Beck’s status as a living musical 
legend.______________• _________________
FAS! INSTANT
CASH
UKAZY DAV* IS BUYING CLASS 
RINGS—PAYING UP TO J12.S.00 
115 Mt.YKAN.AVE. OAKLANDr<687-432D
WE’RE TUNED IN TO YOUR WORLD
The decision you make in the next few 
months will set the direction of your 
professional career. We invite you, 
the new college graduate, to join us as we 
move ahead in a positive direction.
In the past five years, Scientific-Atlanta 
has achieved annual growth rates of 30 
percent in sales and 47 percent in net 
earnings. The direction of the ’80’s will be 
the continued development of high 
technology products for communications 
and instrumentation markets - expanding 
markets in which Scientific-Atlanta is 
an established leader.
Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., is an inter­
national leader in the design and 
manufacture of equipment for satellite, 
cable television, energy management 
and home security industries. Our other 
area of concentration is the manufacture 
and sale of test and measurement
ScientificAtlanta
instruments for industrial, telecommuni­
cations and government applications.
Scientific-Atlanta is large enough to 
offer you excellent benefits and 
compensation, but small enough to be 
personal. You will work side by side with 
some of the top professionals in your field. 
Our technical environment offers 
excellent opportunities and advancement 
potential ior creative individuals with 
technical know-how who are ready to 
try new ideas.
If you are an Electrical or Mechanical 
Engineer seeking direction... then look 
to Scientific-Atlanta.
Visit your Placement Office for details of 
our upcoming visit to your campus on 
Friday, Oct. 31.
SCIENTIFIC-ATLANTA 
3845 Pleasantdale Road 
Atlanta, Georgia 30340 
1-800-241-5346
An Affirmative Action Employa- M/F/V/H
TW HU OF RIGHTS D0ESITTGIURANTE PROSPERITI PRODUCTIVITY DOES.
Where is it written that prosperity is our inalienable right? The 
fact is, it’s a reward earned in large part by ever-increasing productivity.
Ominously, the growth rate of American productivity has been 
dropping steadily and now ranks ninth among industrialized nations 
Yet wages continue to climb and prices with them, sending inflation spiraling endlessly upward.
Revitalizing productivity will require renewed self-control and a 
rethinking of some fundamental attitudes. For instance, given a Federal tax 
cut, would you accept application of a major portion of that cut to taxes on 
business in order to make funds available for productivity-increasing efforts? 
Or, as a worker, would you be willing to limit your demands for wage 
increases? And, as a corporate executive, would you be willing to limit your 
price increases?We re asking you to join us m this citizens crusade against inflation because we believe it is the most pressing national issue of our time. The
ballot at right will give you a voice. 
We'll report the results to our nation's 
, in Washington and to you in a
future ad. And if you'd like more 
information, we'll send you a free copy 
of our booklet Inflation. Let's 
Self-Control It.We urge you to mark your ballot 
and mail it today. Because time lost is 
money lost in the fight against 
inflation.
? I VOTE IX) SELF CONTROL IN FL ATION 
I recognize and accept my personal responsibility 
I commit myself to being personally more 
productive and lo support efhrts that encourage industry to invest in productive increasing 
projects
? PVasr >end your free book.lei to the above addres» 
Mail to Amenear Council of Life Insurance. Dept R 
KîOKSt. NW Washington. DC 4)006
Inflation. Let* Self-Control It.
THE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES IN AMERICA

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 19
Times Square: New Wave movie
by Maria Barbuto
Times Square is heralded as the movie 
that “will do for New Wave what Saturday 
Night Fever (ugh!) did for disco” (not that 
that is necessarily something good). Unfor­
tunately or fortunately, this movie does 
absolutely nothing for “New Wave” and 
even less for the actors and actresses(?) in the 
film.
Throughout the entire movie, two silly 
girls go strolling around Times Square 
dressed in strange clothes; one is in search of 
fame and the other is running away from 
her do-good politician father. That, basi­
cally, is the plot. Every now and then a little 
action occurs; but only a little. Throwing 
televisions from rooftops and stealing pink 
wigs from a pink wig store are the big thrills 
for these girls in the Big Apple. In fact, their 
relationship from the beginning is just 
»plain humorous.
One girl Pammie Pearl (what a name), is 
the I-use-safeguard-soap daughter of a 
prominent politician and the other is a 
trashy, loud-mouthed, dirty fingemailed 
punk (Niki Moroder). Together they bill 
themselves as the “Sleaze Sisters”.
Still, one can’t figure out why Pammie is 
hanging out with fish mouthed Niki. For 
example, Pammie calls her father on the 
phone one day and tells him that she can’t 
come home because Niki is her friend. 
»Friend? Listen to this: Niki ripped her 
poems out of Pammie’s cute little poem 
book, broke her flower vase which con­
tained her pretty pink roses, blasted “I 
Wanna Be Sedated” in her ear each night in 
the hospital and was a general nuisance.
Obviously, Pammie does not know how to 
pick her friends, but this only one of the 
many idiocies of this flick.
The girls live in a decrepit warehouse or 
something by the river that’s not even fit for 
an old gym sock, yet these chicks manage to 
parade around in the latest New Wave 
fashions. So where do they get their money? 
Well, the question is never fully answered 
but the 13 year old does get a job. Get this; 
Pammie is a dancer in a topless night club. 
However, she refuses to dance topless and 
the manager (a crafty looking fellow) allows 
her to get away with it because, this is the 
killer, it adds class to the place. This is the 
mentality of the entire movie.
As the flick rolls on, the excessively mas­
culine Niki (Robin Johnson in real life) 
tends to get on one’s nerves. She talks like 
she’s got a Brillo Pad stuck in her throat. 
And if that’s not enough, her singing 
sounds like a cat in a Waring blender. There 
is just no relief from this girl. She’s con­
stantly swearing, beating someone up or 
behaving quite rudely.
Also quite nauseating is the meek and 
mouse-like Pammie Pearl (Trini Alava- 
rado). She looks ridiculous flitting about in 
high top sneakers and army jacket complete 
with Talking Heads button, because yoou 
know she’s just dying to put on her wool 
skirt and penney loafers. Her naievite is only 
so believable and when she opts for the 
serene life of a student at the end of the 
picture, one cannot sympathize.
The movie’s only saving grace is hand­
some and sexy Tim Curry (not a transvestite 
in this movie). Although his talents were
highlighted in “Rocky Horror” he still 
manages to prove that he’s a pretty dam 
good actor. Sull, one can’t understand why a 
NYC DJ should even care about two young 
teens (jailbait) let alone visit them at their 
“home” and bring them a bottle of vodka. 
Even worse, when it is announced that Niki 
will do a concert at the end of- the film, 
absolutely everyone comes. By wearing 
Hefty Trash bags and other strange items, 
they all try to look like the Mick Jagger- 
lipped Niki. The sad part is that she only 
knows one song (“Damned Dog”) and it’s 
not even a good one either.
Even with Tim Curry, Times Square is 
still pretty ridiculous. You’ll soon tire of 
watching two females walk around NYC to 
the beat of “Life During Wartimes”, and 
“Damned Dog” will have you reaching for 
the barf bag.Stardust Memories
continued from page 17 
the meaning of existence and the terror of 
death. The film bursts open here, showing 
¿ts bitter heart, and we never recover.
Charlotte Rampling as Dorie is seen only 
in memory, and then only briefly. And yet, 
her performance is so powerful, so touch­
ing, that she rules our impressions of the 
film. This is mainly due, I think, to the fact 
that for the first time in a Woody Allen film, 
we can understand the attracuon that a 
woman has for Allen’s character as well as 
her desirability, despite all her problems.
This is the first time that one of the female 
characters in his films has been a mature 
woman, mature enough to see beyond the 
physical into a love that is based purely on a 
mutual understanding of human frailty and 
emotional need. Rampling is a sexy, low­
voiced goddess in this film and she manages 
to put pain under even the softest 
moments—her eyes look scarred and she’s so 
skinny she looks like she’d hurt if you 
touched her, but you want to touch her any­
way. She’s a child-woman, shy but aggres­
sive, innocent but corrupted to death; she’s 
hooked on everything, from diet pills to 
lythium, insecure about her beauty—the 
essence of Zelda Fitzgerald psychotic- 
romance.
Her powerlessness is the symbol of our 
powerlessness in the modem world—we 
have no purpose, and we wait for death to 
wipe out everything we have strived so hard, 
and so poindessly for.
She’s seen the painful reality that we can’t 
deny if we open our eyes. It’s a pain that 
Daisey, as a young woman, is only begin­
ning to see, a pain that Isobel has buffered 
with her flesh and her children and a pain 
that Sandy knows better than anyone.
Gordon Willis, who filmed Allen’s last 
three works, has shot this film in black and 
white with quotes the same European films 
of the fifties that Allen quotes in his story. 
It’s strikingly beautiful, and cleverly 
distinctive, much different from his work in 
Manhatten.
The surprise twist ending leaves Sandy 
Bates alone in the auditorium where his 
films are being shown, staring at an empty 
screen. He’s not Sandy anymore, but Woody 
himself. This scene says more about the 
trials of the artist in our century dian any 
film of the decade.
ADVERTISEMENT
ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE 
HOME DELIVERED 
LARGEST CLASSIFIED VOLl'ME
(213)970-4986 
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISION OFFICE(ilubp
IN FOI R PARTS-52 PAGES 
PART I GENERAL NEWS-15 PAGES
SPANNING THE GLOBE ^ TIMELY REPORTINC
VOL. LIXDAILY FIVE CENTS
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
November 7
Newest Northrop Fighter Advances F-5 Family 
March 24, 1980 - 
Hawthorne, California 
The new generation of Northrop’s F-5 
family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft, 
the F-5G, was announced at Hawthorne 
today, stepping up a nearly 20-year 
evolutionary program for the company.
The single-engined F-5G was conceived 
to meet world defense needs today and 
through the 1990’s, and offers an affordable, 
supportable defensive system that keeps 
pace with the changing requirements for 
national security.
October, 1980
Northrop Aircraft is still designing and 
building high-performance aircraft today 
in the company’s mile-long, modem com­
plex in Hawthorne, California. For 40 
years, we’ve promoted the people associ­
ated with our products and furnished 
one of the finest benefits packages avail­
able in the industry including educational 
reimbursement for employees in an ac­
credited graduate study program; a con­
venient savings plan - for every dollar 
invested, Northrop contributes 50 per­
cent; and generous vacations - including 
a week long Christmas holiday. In addition 
to a creative work environment you’ll 
enjoy Southern California’s year round 
recreational paradise. And, Northrop’s 
recreation club sponsors many enjoy­
able activities such as skiing, golf and 
fishing.
If your interests are in AERONAUTICAL, 
AEROSPACE, MANUFACTURING, 
MECHANICAL, OR ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING; COMPUTER SCI­
ENCE; MATERIALS SCIENCE; or 
PHYSICS see Northrop today for your 
tomorrow.
Contact the placement office to schedule
sentative. If you can not meet with us at 
this time, please forward your resume to:
Employment Office 
Zone 1221-80 Dept. TS/CM 2815 El Segundo Blvd. 
Hawthorne, CA 90250
an appointment with a Northrop repre- Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
Aircraft Division
NORTHROPMaking advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
|(WP £>
"TWf: CAMPOS IS |C|iOP/| &L/)aJP, BUT Tfl£ TUITIONS CHEh?!
Curtaincall
Ruddigore
A production of the Pittsburgh 
Savoyards, a member of the New York 
branch of the Gilbert and Sullivan 
Society of London, and the only one in 
the 7 ri-state area. The Savoyards repeat 
the cycle of operas every five years, so an 
incoming Freshman who intends to 
attend graduate school at CMU, will be 
able to see the full repetoire of Gilbert 
and Sullivan operas by the time he gets 
his masters.
-The Savoyards include ten leads and 
soloists, 35 chorus members and a 33 
member orchestra.
Ruddigore is a parody of the “soap 
opera” of the 1880’s, and includes a cast 
of villains, villagers, maidens, heroes, 
mad-hatters and ghosts.
Ruddigore, one of Gilbert and Sulli­
van’s lesser known operas, will run at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse on Craft Avenue in 
Oakland for seven performances begin­
ning October 31.
Shows are October 31, November 1,5,7 
and 8 at 8:30 and November 2 and 9 at 3 
PM. There is a $2 student discount off the 
regular price of $6 or $5. 361-0873 for 
tickets and information.
Open 
House
Texas Instruments Semiconductor Group will host an open house for students who are interested in learning more about opportunities in technical careers at TI,
Tb attend, you should be currently pursuing 
or have earned a BS, MS, PhD, BBA or 
MBA with technical degree in one of the 
following specialties:
• Electrical Engineering and Electronics
• Physics/Solid-State Physics
• Mechanical Engineering
• Material Science
• Metallurgy
• Industrial Engineering
• Chemical Engineering/Chemistry
• Math
• Computer Science
• Accounting
TI Semiconductor Group is the world’s 
leading supplier of semiconductor com­
ponents and materials. Located in Houston, 
Lubbock and Dallas, our number one 
position includes:
• The industry’s broadest line of solid-state 
memories
• The biggest seller in microcomputers
• The leading 16-bit microprocessor family
• Continued leadership in TTL technology
• The industry’s model facility for VLSI 
processing
A general presentation on TI will be given 
throughout the day with representatives 
available for questions afterward.
Representatives from TI Semiconductor 
Group — who will be recruiting here later this 
fall and spring — will be present to describe 
activities and opportunities and answer ques­
tions you may have.Open House
Friday, November 7 
Hammerschlag Hall-EE 104
Drop in any time from 9 a.m. to4 p.m. for an informal discussion with our representatives. Or write for more information on TI employment:Lois Bullock/Texas Instruments Incorporated, U.S. MOS Operations/P.O. Box 1443, M.S. 6980, Houston,Tfexas 77001.
Fifty Years
ofInnovation
on-th erhjplanrjh
INCORPORATED
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

John Carroll 0 0 0 0 —0
CMU 0 6 0 0 — 6
CMU—Joe Goldcamp fumble recovery 
in end zone (Kick failed)
JCUCMU
First Downs78
Rushes—Yards46-10841-91
Att.-Comp.-Int11-4-321-10-1
Passing Yards3085
Total Yards138176
Fumbles—Lost4-14-1
Penalties—Yards7-755-65
Punts—Avg.9-33.110-32.1
PAC STANDINGS
WLTPet.
Bethany6001.000
CMU510.833
Thiel420.667
John Carroll330.500
Hiram231.417
Allegheny231.417
Wash-Jeff150.167
Case WR06'0.000
Camegie-Mellon 6 John Carroll 0
Bethany 32 Case Western Reserve 7 
I hiel 17 Washington & Jefferson 0 
Allegheny 7 Hiram 7
TARTAN LEADERS
Passing- Kiselick 10 for 17,85 yards, 1 int. 
Brown 0 for 4, 0 yards.
Rushing- Harrison 15 for 46 yards. Brown 
3 for 17 yards. Vasalani 3 for 13 yards. Colo- 
simo 8 for 7 yards. Kiselick 11 for 7 yards. 
Goldcamp 1 for 1 yards, 1 TD.
Receiving- Rubai 4 for 40 yards. Leposky 
2 for 18 yards. Colosimo 2 for 11 yards. 
Harrison 1 for 7 yards. Vasalani 1 for -1 
yards.
Several Tartan defenders converge on Tom Baldinelli during last Saturday’s 6-0 Tartan vtcUrry.
Tartan teams in action this week:
Tues. Oct. 18VOLLEYBALLCMUvs. Bethany(H)5:00 PM
Wed. Oc t. 29,SOCCFRCMUvs. West Virginia Wesleyan(H)4.-00 ?M
Finn. Oct. 30VOLLEYBALLCMUvs. St. Francis(H)6:00 PM
Sal. Nov. 1FOOTBALLCMUis. Hiram(A)1:30 PM
X-COUNTRYPAC Championships(H)11:00 AM
SOCCERCMUvs. Grove City»(A)1:00 PM
VOLLEYBALLCMUvs. Chatham(H)• 11:00 AM
Mon. \o\. 3VOLLEYBALLCMUvs. Rolx'it Monis(A)6:00 PM
Goldcamp touchdown gives Tartans 6-0 win
by Wes Seeley
Senior center Joe Goldcamp pounced on 
a Jeff Harrison fumble with 26 seconds to go 
in the first half for the only score in the game 
as the Tartans slipped and slid their way to a 
6-0 win over John Carroll in front of 600 
rain-soaked fans at Tech Bowl last Saturday. 
The touchdown culminated a 15-play drive 
that was masterfully engineered by sopho­
more quaterback Bill Kiselick covering 66 
yards.
The Tartans were handed a break on the 
second play from scrimmage when Brian 
Renner stepped in front of a pass from 
Kevin Hartman to give CMU the ball on 
their own 46 yard line. Two runs and a pass 
from there yielded nothing, however, and 
they had to turn it over.
When the Blue Streaks went on the offen­
sive, they gave the ball to the Presidents’ 
Athletic Conference’s leading rusher, Tom 
Baldinelli. The senior tailback from Sharon 
handled the ball on 13 of John Carroll’s 20 
plays in the first quarter and acounted for 64 
yards of offense. Still the streaks could not 
penetrate past the Tartan 40.
The Plaid, meanwhile, mustered only 
one first down in the first quarter and that 
trend continued well into the second as the 
teams traded punts. The Tartans got one
break when Dan LaPorte mishandled Mike 
O’Ship’s punt and Lee Ferketic fell on it to 
give CMU the ball on John Carroll’s 44. 
CMU returned the favor on the next play 
when a blitz caught Kiselick off gaurd and 
he had the ball stolen away. The two teams 
still couldn’t make a first down until the 
Tartans took over on their own 36 with 3:14 
to play in the half.
Kiselick then took control. He hit on six 
of 11 passes, three of which went to Mark
Rubai, to bring the ball down to John Car­
roll’s seven. Kiselick next gave to Jeff Har­
rison who brought the ball down to the 
three. Harrison carried again on the next 
play but he coughed up the ball on the one. 
Goldcamp covered it in the end zone and the 
Plaid was on the board. Denny Postufka 
never got a chance to kick the extra point as 
Mark Leposky couldn’t handle the high 
snap and the score was 6-0 at halftime.
The second half took on a look similar to 
the first until Perry Colosimo muffed Bill 
Fortner’s punt and the Streaks took over on 
the Tartan 25. It was their deepest penetra­
tion of the afternoon to that point. Five 
plays later the Blue Streaks were looking 
down at third down and one at CMU’s six. 
But there the Plaid Curtain held, stopping 
Bill Nervone and Guy Saponaro for no gain 
and the Tartan offense took over.
The rest of the game was dominated by 
the Tartan defense. John Carroll managed 
two first downs the rest of the way and twice 
their drives were stopped by Tartan intercep­
tions. The first one, by Pat Mechas, came 
with 3:03 remaining in the game and, the 
second, by Ted Thomas came with 1:06 left 
and finished the Streaks for the afternoon.
Bill Kiselick played the second and fourth 
quarters and performed extremly well, com­
pleting ten of seventeen passes, four to Mark 
Rubai who had his best day as a Tartan. Jeff 
Harrison was the top ground gainer for 
CMU with 46 yards.
Tom Baldinelli rushed for 72 yards in 26 
carries to keep him at the top of the PAC list 
of rushers. He also caught three passes. His 
89 yards of total offense eas nearly two-thirds 
of the John Carroll team total.
The win pushed the Tartans’ record on 
the year to seven wins against one defeat, 5-1 
in the conference. John Carroll fell to 3-4. 
The Tartans will close their 1980 season at 
Hiram next week at 1:30.
Above, John Carroll running back Torn Baldinelli tries to get to the outside against Tartan defenders Rick

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—October 28, 1980
of Pennwood West season
doubles and lost by default. If they had 
played their match, they would have taken 
one point and CMU would have taken the 
tide outright.
First Singles Semi-Finals
Kim Forys <SH) defeated Renee Peck (SE) 
6-2, 6-2. Anette Aloe (CM) defeated Kathy 
Allison (Ch) 6-2, 6-3.
Finals
Forys defeated Aloe 6-3, 6-3.
Second Singles Semi-Finals
Jean Miklosko (SF) defeated Sherrie 
Adkins (SH) 5-7, 6-4, 7-6. Jennifer Mullan 
(CM) defeated Alison Wolfson (Ch) 6-4,4-6,
6-1.
Finals
Mullan defeated Miklosko 6-4, 6-1.
Third Singles Semi-Finals
Bridge« Kyne (CM) defeated Karen 
Goettler (SH) 6-1, 6-3. Becca Reeves (WJ) 
defeated Beth Gospadarek (Be) 6-3, 6-2.
Finals
Kyne defeated Reeves 6-4, 6-2.
cam went through their regular conference 
ichedule undefeated but met strong compe- 
ition in the Pennwood West Tournament, 
rhe result was an unprecedented four-way 
ie for the tide with CMU finishing even 
Arith Chatham, Seton Hill and Washington 
ic Jefferson. Two Tartans took individual 
lonors in the tournament. No other team 
lad more than one.
Jennifer Mullan won the dde in Flight 2 
>f the tourney. After taking a hye in the first 
ound, Mullan found a tough challenger in 
[Chatham’s Alison Wolfson who took her 
hree sets before falling 6-4, 4-6, 6-1. She 
ound an easier time in the finals against 
fean Miklosko of St. Francis, winning there 
>-4, 6-1.
The Flight 3 championship went to 
^MU’s Bridgett Kyne. The freshman from 
•acred Heart was not severely tested on her 
vay to the tide as she scored straight set 
ictories over Karen Goettler of Seton Hill 
nd Becca Reeves of Washington 8c Jeffer- 
jn. The two victories completed a perfect 
ndefeated season for Kyne in Pennwood 
V'est Conference play.
In the first flight of the tourney, the Tar- 
ms’ Annette Aloe made it to the finals 
efore losing to Seton Hill’s Kim Forys by 
:ores of 6-3, 6-3. Forys’ win gave her the 
inference championship for the second 
ear in a row. Before losing in the final, Aloe 
zored two points for the Tartans by taking a 
ye in the opening round and downing 
.aty Allison of Chatham 6-2, 6-3 in the 
xond round.
The Plaid did not fair as well in the dou- 
>les competition as neither team could win 
ts opening round match. Margaret Mullan 
md Trina Nagasawa fell victim to the even- 
ual champions, Tina Cherpes and Judy 
Tumquist of Washington 8c Jefferson 6-2, 
-6. Pauline Kramer and Fran Arscht failed
The Tartan volleyball team opens a very 
busy week of play this evening in the Pen­
nwood West Conference as they meet 
Bethany at 5:00PM in the Skibo Gym. They 
also have home matches ths week against 
conference rivals St. Francis and Chatham.
CMU is now 7-4 overall with a 2-1 mark 
in the conference. Last week, the Tartans 
lost their first conference match to Seton 
Hill three games to one but fought back on 
Saturday to crush Carlow 3-0. CMU has 
been putting a very young team on the floor 
as they have only two returning lettermen, 
Jennifer Castor and Jennifer Donaldson. 
They have been complimented by sopho­
more Lia Keppeler, who has brought years 
of experience playing in Hawaii to the 
court, and freshmen Bonnie Stuart and Liz 
Smith, who have proven themselves as 
strong players in the middle. Sophomore 
Janet Szware has been forced out of the line­
up with a knee injury but sophomores 
Yvonne Chi and Sue Ann Illig have filled in 
well.
First Doubles Semi-Finals
Synatt-Starvch (Ch) defeated Dixon- 
Spartorius (SF) 6-1,6-2. Bergman-Lehr (WJ) 
defeated Berriman-Mortimer (Be) 0-6, 6-4,After the Tartans finish this week they 
face Robert Morris in a non-conference 
match and then head to Bethany College 
next weekend for the Pennwood West Con­
ference tournament on November 8. *
Finals
Synatt-Starvch defeated Bergman-Lehr 6-
1, 7-5.
Second Doubles Semi-Finals
Silverman-Bouton (Ch) defeated 
Madison-Valendne (Be) 7-6, 6-3. Cherpes- 
Tumquist (WJ) defeated Detres-Willock 
(SH) 6-4, 6-2.
Finals
Cherpes’Tumquist defeated Silverman- 
Bouton 6-4, 7-6.
Lxz Smith is one of many newcomers on the Tartan 
volleyball team.
Call Red Cross now for a blood donor appointment.
Cut Class
Traditional
PetiteStarletBouquet
Pick your favorite ArtCarved ;lafc ring. Cut it out. 
Keep it with you for a while. Get an idea what it’s 
like to own the ring that says, “1 did it!”
Then, have the genuine article fitted by the Art- 
Carved representative visiting campus today. You’ll 
have our newest selection of ring styles to choose 
from — and a specialist who will make sure the 
fit is perfect. Plus, there are some incredible Art- 
Carved offers to cut the cost of your class ring . . .
CUT your ties with the past during our “Great 
Ring Exchange!” Trading your old 10K gold high 
school ring for a new ArtCarved college ring could 
save you as much as $90.
CUT the cost of a traditional or contemporary 
Siladium ring to just $74 95 — a special ArtCarved 
“Ring Week” discount up to $20.
CUT a smashing figure with a women’s class ring 
from our exciting new “Designer Diamond Collec­
tion.”
Any way you cut u, today is the best day to select your ArtCarved class ring!
^COLLEGE RINGSCMU Bookstore o« 29-31A Production 0» Th« Minnesota Public Radio National Program Service
Deposit required MasterCharge or VISA accepted
Netters share PWC title V-ballers enter final week
The Camegie-Mellon Women’s Tennis to show up for their first round match in

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan—October 28, 1980—Page 23
'ield hockey team falls just short in playoff game
The Camegie-Mellon Field Hockey team 
nished its very successful 1980 campaign 
n a sour note last Sunday as they lost a 
layoff game to Bethany, 4-2. The playoff 
ime came about when the two teams fin- 
shed the regular season with identical 5-1 
ecords in the Pennwood West Conference.
The Tartans took an early lead in the 
playoff game on a goal by Mary Rehak. It 
was her fifth of the year. After Bethany 
fought back to tie, CMU took the lead again 
when senior Beth MacElwee scored her fifth 
goal of the season. The 2-1 score held until 
halftime.
The second half was dominated by 
Bethany as they scored three unanswered
goals to take the PWC crown for the third 
year in a row.
The loss ended the Tartans best season in 
field hockey ever. Seniors Rehak and MacEl­
wee were the team’s leading scorers but they 
were complimented the scoring of younger 
talent including co-captain Elaine Andrys- 
ick, Marion Nimphius and Edna Kunkel. 
Another high point in the year was play of 
freshman goal tender Lesley Schwarzschild 
who repeated stopped assaults on the Tar­
tan net.
With this fine nucleus returning, Coach 
Leesa DeBartola should have another fine 
team going for the PWC crown next season.
Soccer team wins one, ties one
The Carnegie-Mellon soccer team 
enjoyed its best single week of the season last 
week as they defeated Pitt-Johnstown on 
Wednesday, 2-1, and fought Allegheny to a 
1-1 tie in overtime this past Friday.
On Wednesday, the Tartans struck for 
two quick goals in the first half. Tim Carlin 
opened the assault when he took a pass from 
Allan McCurdy and put the ball past the 
Mountain Cat goalie to give CMU a 1-0 
lead. The Tartans came right back less than 
two minutes later when Mike Menoch 
scored with an assist going to Tim Carver. 
Pitt-Johnstown got one back in the second 
half but the Plaid held on for a 2-1 win.
CMU fell behind 1-0 early in the first half 
against the Gators on Friday but freshman 
Roberto Canepa tied the score in a scramble 
in front of the Allegheny net. Joe Dreskin
year. From that point on the two teams 
played strong defensive soccer but neither 
team could muster a goal through the 
second half or the two overtime periods. The 
Tartans had much the better of the play 
throughout the game and several times hit 
the goal post on shots that would have won 
the game. CMU outshot Allegheny 30-11 on 
the afternoon.
The Tartans have now finished their 
Presidents’ Athletic Conference schedule 
with a record of 0-4-2. They are 3-6-2 overall. 
CMU will play its toughest match of the 
season tomorrow when they play West Vir­
ginia Wesleyan. The Bobcats will come to 
CMU as the sixth ranked team in Division II 
soccer and are led by All-American Martin 
Woodstock. CMU Coach Gene Klein calls 
West Virginia Wesleyan ’’easily, the best 
team to play a soccer game at CMU.“ The 
game will start at 4:00 PM. *
One reason for the field hockey team’s has been the fine play in goal of freshman Lesley Schzvarzschild
shown in action against Washington & Jefferson
Do you care about the quality and cost of a 
college education?IVAN ITKIN DOES
re-elect him to a 5th term in the 
STATE LEGISLATURE 
VOTE DEMOCRATIC
Authorized and paid by he Ivan Itkin Campaign Coin mi (Ur
JAN KOTT
renowned Polish-born scholar of Drama and Renaissance 
Studies, author of Shakespeare, Our Contemporary, and 
informed interpreter of European, events will visit CMU and 
Pitt for lectures and discussions between October 30 and 
November 3.
The Russian Hamlet
Wed. Oct. 29 7-9 PM. 
Hunt Multi-Purpose Room 
Thurs. Oct. 30 10 AM to 12 noon 
Wherrett Room
Discussions with Dr. Kott at 12:00 on Thursday after the film 
in the Wherrett Room. Bring a Bag Lunch.
Julius Caesar and the Cutting of 
History:/, ecfi/re
Thurs. Oct. 30 4 PM.
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium: Pitt Campus
Recent Developments in Poland: Lecture-Discussion sponsored by 
European Studies
Friday, October 31 11 -12 AM
Skibo 11
HERE'S IMPORTANT NEWS 
FROM
UNITED STATES 
MARINE CORPS
FOR YOU COLLEGE MEN WHO ARE AVIATION MINDED:
December and May Grads! All majors! The Marine Corps 
is currently accepting applications for PILOT S. If you 
qualify, we offer you a Guaranteed flight contract before 
Officer Candidate School. Salary starts at $14,830 during 
training increasing to $19,500 in two years. Generous 
benefit package includes a paid medical and dental 
program, 30 days paid vacation per years and 
opportunities for travel.
For more information or interview contact Captain Dave 
KIFFER at 644-5819 or submit a resume to Officer 
Selection Office, Room 701, New Federal Building, 1000 
Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222.

---------------------------------------------------

Ift hard to decide who needs 
your gift the most, isn’t it?
United Vfty 
helps you do the right thing.
When you give through United Way, you support a wide range of 
human services. Needs and distri­bution of funds are reviewed by 
local volunteers. To make sure your generous gift does allMath Dept.you want it to do,
Integrals
Baskethall-A
A Public Service of TNs Magazine & The Advertising Council
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA • Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA • Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you tp watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
you’re a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA • Photo’s the place for you.
Same day service on
ektachrome film
Fast, fast service onSail around the world from Ft,. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5, 
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a full semester of credit. Sponsor«! by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies Participation open to qualified students from all accred­
ited colleges Mid universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed.
More than 60 university courses - with In-port «id voyage-related 
mmptvurim Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading 
institutions. Visiting aim experts
?'A fre* jrjk/r bri.tnur* c*U ar write Smetw H So/U C 18 . Wbnm QuaAmrigl«, UnrmWy of F-'nsh» -gh F'A laaao. TsMfMmmm tou txmm £*003 #**-«*» C««**£41*5 6%« 60X1 Ml ®770 (California).The8 S UniverselefullyIBfiBO ton». rtffnanegln Ltamtm natotdfc Bt Anmmm.
all other films
Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all
passports photos
4SPPHOIO3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720
Intramural touch football playoffs are underway
by Leslie Weiser
The first intramural sports seaons are 
drawing to a dose with final standing com­
ing in and playoff games being scheduled. 
Intermediate and Minor league touch foot­
ball playoffs began this past weekend and 
will continue all this week. Major league 
playoffs will begin Wednesday, October 29. 
The first round games will be Pika-A vs. 
Haven III and Wild Bunch vs. ATO. Please 
check the IM bulletin board for the playoff 
schedules or call commissioners Rocky Cer- 
sosimo, phone 578-4613, or Wes Seeley, 
phone 687-0843.
The Intramural team tennis competition 
was won by the tom of Anne Witchner and 
Company. Witchner and Co. were unde­
feated in the Ashe Division but met stiff 
competition in the semifinals when they 
played the Borg Division winners, Phi 
Kappa Theta. Witchner and Co. won that 
match, however, and then beat a tough team 
from the Computer Science Department to 
take the title.
In co-rec volleyball, Zanzibar defeated 
CIA to take the minor league championship 
and Ustalar defeated a very strong Wild 
Bunch team for the major league crown.
Water polo statistics are shaping up with 
Phi Kappa Theta-A and SAE still unde­
feated. A reminder to all teams that there 
must be a certified life guard on duty at all 
rimes during the matches. Please get all 
matches played and scores reported. This 
commissioner is Chris Burke, phone 682-
The cross country meet was held on 
Thursday, October 16 with the team cham­
pionship going to Meek’s X’s and the indi­
vidual title going to Steve Bailey who came 
in with a time of 10:31. The top women’s 
finisher was Kim Ames who came in at 
14:55.
Intramural soccer games will begin Mon­
day, November 3. Please check the IM bul­
letin board for game and official schedules. 
An extremely important rules clinic will be 
held on Wednesday, October 29 in Thistle
hall of the gym at 4:30 PM. Each team must 
be represented at this meeting. The commis­
sioner for soccer is Chris Wargo, phone 621- 
9144.
Six-person volleyball play began Mon­
day, October 27. Please check the IM bul­
letin board for game and official schedules. 
The commissioner is Mike Pochan, phone 
683-0372. There will be a volleyball rules 
clinic today at 4:30 PM in the women’s gym. 
Each team must have a representative at this 
meeting.
Bowling matches began this past wee­
kend at the Strand I .anes in Oakland. The 
commissioner is Dave Hecht, phone 678- 
8968.
Sports coming up with entries due Thurs­
day, November 8 are three-person volley- 
ball, darts and backgammon. 
Commissioners are needed for all of these 
sports.
The next meeting of the Intramural 
Board will be November 6 at 12:30 in room 
104 of the gym.
CROSS COUNTRY RESULTS
110:31Steve Bailey
2
3
10:43
10:52
Robert Nagle 
Dave Reynolds
410:59Paul Clifford
511:14Andy Hanbury
611:24Greg Pakela
711:51Dave Chisholm
812:05Dave Delo
912:10Bruce Krebbers
1012:12Tony Rosato
WOMEN’S RESULTS
14:55 Kim Ames
15:13 Laurie Worthington
TEAM STANDINGS
Meek’s X’s 
Math Dept. 
Math Dept. 
Integrals 
Meek’s X’s 
Integrals 
Meek’s X’s
4-E
Meek’s X’s 
Math Dept.
Meek’s X’s 
Integrals
Table tennis schedules are out so please 
check your scheduled games and get them 
played on time, The commissioner is Dave 
Kusma at 578-4270.
The racquetball commissioner is Jon 
Polansky, phone 372-2576. Matches began 
Monday. Three singles games constitute a
Place
1
2
3
4
5
Page 24—The Tartan—October 28, 1980

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1980—The Tartan—Page 25
iBaylor’s Abner McCall backs Reagan
(CPS)-The Reagan campaign has 
spread into the offices of two Sunbelt univer­
sities, and despite questions about the propr­
iety of publically-funded institutions taking 
active parts in partisan politics, officials say 
it will stay in those offices.
Baylor Universtiy President Abner 
McCall, who never seems to be far removed 
rom controversy, has been named local 
county chairman of the Reagan-Bush cam­
paign. At San Diego State Universtiy, a stu­
dent government officer allegedly used 
student facilities to mobilize campus Rea­
gan support-an effort that would violate
California law.
Both men denied their actions were 
wrong.
“I’m not politicizing the university,” 
McCall argues. “I’ve always been in politics. 
I have even urged faculty members and stu­
dents to get involved in any way they can. 
It’s important for our process.”
College presidents have traditionally kept 
a low profile in partisan politics. One often 
stated reason was that college presidents, by 
taking public stands, might inhibit the free 
exploration of issues that is theoretically tak­
ing place on campus. Another was the fear 
that a president, by endorsing a candidate
Pom films survive Regents’ wrath
Dekalb, 111. (CPS)-Surviving the wrath of 
the Board of Regents, the popular erotic 
film weekend at Northern Illinios Univer­
sity has been battered, but not beaten. As of 
now, it is still exported to go on as scheduled 
sometime this spring.
Last year’s version sparked a rash of out­
rage from members of the university com­
munity. The Board of Regents adopted as its 
“sentiment” in July a.strong position ban­
ning the showing of any x-rated films at the 
Northern Illinois, Illinois State University 
and Sangamon State campuses, which the 
board oversees. But there has been doubt as 
to whether that “sentiment” would be bind­
ing or just an advisory stance.
The uncertainty was cleared when the 
regents recently voted to make its policy 
only advisory, leaving the final decisions 
about campus pom films up to each of the 
three university presidents. And the regents 
made it clear the presidents would have 
complete authority.
“We will not hold the presidents responsi­
ble,” says David Murray, chairman of the
Board of Regents, “for implementing the 
expression of our opinion.”
Since the regents have backed away from 
making the ban official university policy- 
some suspect it was due to the threat of 
possible suits from the American Civil Lib­
erties Union-the * presidents have been 
“relieved of a tremendous burden,” accord­
ing to Northern Illinois Student Regent 
Michael Ross.
Ross says he still sees some hypocricy in 
the board’s stem recommendation.
“On the one hand, if a university presi­
dent bans the films, he may get sued. If he 
lets them be shown, the regents may decide 
to remove him,” Ross complains.
Though a large hurdle has been removed, 
Bob Silverman, director of the erotic film 
festival and Northern Illinois Holmes Cen­
ter film coordinator, still won’t make a defi­
nite committment to screen the festival.
“Because of the controversy, we will talk 
to President William Monat before we sche­
dule anything,” Silverman says.
who subsequently loses, could jeopardize 
public support of his institution.
Indeed, former University of Michigan 
President Allen Smith counseled that uni­
versities should “try hard to be apolitical.” 
The reason, he said, was that “I’ve seen poli­
ticized universities in South America. 
They’re not educational universities in any 
sense of the word. And the reason is, when 
you push politically, you get pushed back.”
But Smith, who made that argument 
while defending his decision not to sell cam- 
'pus stocks in South African companies, sees 
nothing wrong with a university president 
getting involved in partisan politics.
“I don’t think we forfeit our rights as 
individuals when we become university 
presidents,” he contends. “I don’t see why 
we as idndivduals can’t take positions on 
something we believe, as long, of course,
that it doesn’t threaten our credibility as an 
institution.”
In San Diego, Bob Moore, a student 
government officer who also heads the cam­
pus Students for Reagan committee, asked 
in an ad for Reagan volunteers to call him at 
his student government office.
But the request effectively violated a Cali­
fornia state ban on using “public facilities” 
to promote candidates or political issues.
“I didn’t do anything wrong,” Moore told 
the Daily Aztec, the SDSU student paper. “I 
happen to work in that office, and that's the 
easiest time to get ahold of me. If my friends 
can call me at the office, I should be able to 
receive calls for Reagan.”
Other student officers and administration 
officials called Moore’s campaigning “inap­
propriate.” Moore, however, will not be sub­
jected to any disciplinary actions.
ÛPTIÇT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355-0444(
OPEN SAT. 10 W SP-M_
DON'T LOSE IT
Fight back against mid semester 
spread all winter long.
Shadyside Nautilus offers a full 
line of exercise equipment 
and sauna facilities for both 
men and women.
Right now is your last chance
for Student Rates. Act now
and STAY IN SHAPE for seven months-
$99.00.
SHADYSIDE NAUTILUS
363-0505
Ellsworth Ave. at College Ave.
Next to Cafe Stephen B's

---------------------------------------------------

When you come to work for 
Corning, you can begin in your 
area of interest right away. 
We figure you’ve earned the 
right to develop your potential 
on the job. And based on your 
performance you can move 
from discipline to discipline 
as you develop new interests.
November 12,1980
CORNING
To learn more about Corning, 
make an appointment to see 
our recruiters through the 
Placement Center.
Corning is an equal opportunity 
employer.
Corning Glass Works, 
Corning, New York 14830
„ With Corning you canchangecareers
Corning is the No. 1 company 
in glass and glass-ceramics 
technology, with 60,000 pro­
ducts and 71 plant facilities 
around the world.
The options are real and un­
limited in such diverse engi- 
neeringdisciplines as machine 
design, process development, 
melting technology, instru­
mentation, control tech­
nology, and computer science.
without changing companies
Corning Glass offers you an 
opportunity that’s hard to 
match. The chance to explore 
all your interests in one inno­
vative work environment. At 
your own pace.

---------------------------------------------------

Brents.
3.*b*
November 1 
Coffeehouse
The best of Pittsburgh Jazz comes to the CMU 
campus. Activities Board Coffeehouse Com­
mittee presents the Richard Franklin Trio at 
9:30 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Refresh­
ments are free.
October 30 
Thursday Film Arts
Eraserhead, the first and only other film of David 
Lynch, the director of The Elephant Man 
(reviewed in this issue). Eraserhead is one of the 
more recent additions to the repetoire of cult 
films that play college campuses. The movie 
includes startling and disturbing visual imagery, 
and is not necessarily for the squeamish.
6, 8 and 10 in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID, $1.50 
without.
October 31
Halloween, the first and most successful of the 
most recent genre of horror films in which a 
crazed maniac stalks nubile teenagers. What sets 
Halloween apart from the rest of the genre (Motel 
Hell, Terror Train) are the talent of it" director, 
John Carpenter, and the critical acclaim it has 
received. Roger Ebert, of the Chicago Sun Times, 
and the co-host of the PBS show, Sneak Previews 
says that Halloween is “so scary that.. . I would 
compare it to Psycho.” Halloween stars the 
“queen of screamers”, Jamie Lee Curds.
6, 8, 10 and 12 in DH 2210.theater
October 30 through November 23
Don’t Walk Around Stark Naked and The
Bald Soprano
Theatre Express presents two one act plays for 
the opening production of its 1980-81 season. 
The plays are French farces by Georges Fey­
deau and Eugen Ionesco, respectively. 621 - 
5454 for tickets and information.
October 27 through November 1 
Dandn
Heinz Hall Broadway Theatre Series. Winner of 
a Tony Award for best choreography (Bob Fosse), 
featuring a company of 18 dancers and singers. 
Music ranges from Neil Diamond to Bach. 
Tickets, from $16 to $7, are on sale at Heinz Hall 
and Kaufmann’s.
October 23 through November 16 
Swellfoot’s Tears
A Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Production. 
Suggested by the Oedipus Tragedy. “A powerful, 
but not a pretty play”, in the playwright’s (Leon 
Katz) own words. At the Lab’s new home, The 
Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Thursday 
through Sunday at 8 and Sunday at 2:30. 621 - 
2876 for tickets and information.
October 31 through November 9 
Ruddigore
The Pittsburgh Savoyards presents their 84th 
production of a full length Gilbert and Sullivan
“Children and a stile,” a brown ink and watercolor representing "Autumn” in Kate Greenaway’s 
Almanac for 1892. In the Penthouse of Hunt Library
opera at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Cen­
ter on Craft Ave. Performances are Friday and 
Saturday at 8:30, and Sunday at 3. There will also 
be a performance on Wednesday, November 5 at 
8:30. There is a $2 student discount. For tickets 
and information, call 361-0873.
October 31 through November 23 
Poe
The Metropolitan Stage Company’s (Metro) 
second production of the 1980-81 season is an 
original play by CMU grad Michael Cook. The 
production takes place at the Old Post Office 
Museum at Allegheny Center. Shows are Thurs­
day through Sunday at 8. Admission is by dona­
tion. There will be a reception after the play on 
opening night, Halloween, and the audience is 
invited to come in costume. 683-3993 for reserva­
tions.
October 28 through November 2 
Campaing relief
The first production in the Pittsburgh Public 
Theatre’s inaugural series of workshop produc­
tions dedicated to new works in American Thea- 
Featuring the same cast of the highly 
successful I’m Getting My Act Together. Shows 
are Tuesday through Thursday at 8, Friday and 
Saturday at 8:30 and Saturday and Sunday at 2. 
323-3950 for tickets and information.
November 2 
Rodney Dangerfield
The nightclub impresario, Tonight Show 
regular, stand-up comedian and recording 
star will perform at the Stanley Theatre. Dan- 
gerfield’s career has skyrocketed in the past six 
months with a movie, Caddyshack, a new 
album, No Respect, a feature article in Time 
magazine and a cover story in Rolling Stone. 
Tickets are on sale at The Stanley and all 
National Record Marts.
music
film
November 2 
Film Noir Series
Bigger Than Life directd by Nicholas Ray, and 
Alphaville directed by Jean-luc Godard. In the 
Lecture Hall at 7:30. $1.50.
Pittsburgh Film-Makers
October 31, Halloween and November I 
Two Bad Movies For Halloween
The (Sex) Maniac, a sub-z budget horror film. 
Not for the young and squeamish. Chained 
for Life, in which a Siamese twin is accused of 
murder and put on trial. At 205 Oakland 
Avenue. Admission is $2. Midnight.
art
Campus Galleries
October 28, tonight
The Carnegie-Mellon University Chorus will 
perform in the Alumni Concert Hall in the 
College of Fine Arts at 8 p.m.
November 2
The Contemporary Ensemble will perform in 
the Alumni Concert Hall at 8 p.m.
October 30 
Molly Hatchet
The rock ’n’ roll band from Jacksonville will 
perform at the Stanley Theatre in supp>ort of 
their third album, Beatin’ the Odds. A band 
with heavy metal as well as southern rock 
influences. Tickets on sale at The Stanley and 
National Record Marts.
SDC Film Series
November 1
Dark Star at 6,8,10 and 12 in DH 2210. $.50 
with student ID.
Carnegie Institute Film series
October 28, tonight 
Fellini Series
Otto E. Mezzo (8H), which played on campus last 
Thursday night to decidedly mixed comment, 
will be screened in the Lecture Hall at 8 p.m. 
Woody Allen’s latest movie, Stardust Memories, 
is more or less an American version of this film. 
Admission is $1.50.
October 30
Films from the 1920’s
In conjunction with the Constructnnsm and 
Geometric Tradition exhibition in the Museum 
of Art. 8 p.m. in the Museum of Art Theatre. Free.
Through November 6 
Barbara Schwartz
In the Hewlett Gallery of the College of Fine 
Arts. Painting and sculpture. Gallery hours 
are 10 to 4.
Through October 31 
Patty Weston
In the Ellis Gallery of the College of Fine Arts. 
Gallery hours are 8:30 to 5, Monday through 
Friday.
October 28 through November 1
Tom Cairns, Judy Shlecter, Mary Rehak,
Tony Fischer
In the Forbes Street Gallery at Forbes and 
Margaret Morrison Street. Opening is tonight 
from 7 to 10. Other Gallery hours are Wednes­
day through Sunday, noon to 4.
October 20 through March 13 
Kate Greenway
The English Victorian artist and illustrator 
will have her works displayed in the Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
located in the Penthouse of Hunt library. 
Penthouse hours are Monday throgh Friday 9 
to 5 p.m. Free and op>en to the public.
Carnegie Museum of Art
October 11 through January 4 
Hopi Kachina: Spirit of Life
\ visual interpretation of the Hopi culture 
through more than 150 kachina dolls, 
basketry, pottery, clothing and painting. 
Organized by the California Academy of 
Sciences. In the museum of Natural History. 
October 24 through January 4 
Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition 
Selections from the McCrory Corporation are 
the major fall exhibition of the Museum of 
Art. Spanning six decades of geometric 
abstraction from the 1920’s to the present, 
including works by Mondrian, Albers, 
Vasarely and Delauney Gallery 12, B, C 
Through November 2
Paintings by Rachel McCelland Sutton,
Gallery D
Through November 23
Sculpture by CMU professor, EAward Ebrrle,
Entrance Gallery
October 11 through February 15
Durer and his Contempxjraries, Gallery 10
October 24 through February 15
Prints by Richard Anuszkiezvicz, Gallery A
The results of The Tartan’s 
First Annual Entertainment 
and Personality Poll in next 
week's Entertainment 
section — Balloting is over.
The most complete coverage 
of CMU’s fighting Tartans 
is in The Tartan Sports
section.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Resume Development—Interview Technique
professional typing also available please call 
Jane at x3716 before 9:30 AM or 371-0946 after 
6:00 PM
The Graphic Student, a new magazine by and
for students of Architecture, Cartooning, Design, 
Graphics and Photography from universities 
across the nation, is requesting that students of 
the above fields submit their wrork for publica­
tion. Please send quality reproductions, or if you 
wish, originals with stamped self- addressed enve­
lope. If your work is published, the Graphic 
Student will pay you as follows...
Architecture: $30 Cartoons: $10 Design: $15 
Graphics: $15 Photography: $15
The Graphic student is published monthly by 
GraphiMedia Corp., a Not for Profit Educa­
tional Corporation, from September to June. 
Subscriptions available at $15 per year, $10 stu­
dent rate. Make check or money order payable 
to...
Graphimedia Corporation 
(a Not for Profit Corp)
640 Woodbine Ave.
Oak Park, IL 60302 
Pioneer tape deck model CT—F6262. Dolby, 3 
pos. eq. Good condiuon. Originally $250, selling 
for $185. Bill, PKT, 683-1620
Typing. Term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9PM if possible.
Help Wanted: Person interested in lucrative 
entreprenurial opportunity in the diet industry. 
Direct sales of national product. Only self­
motivated people need to reply, c/o Box 269 
Clearview' Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15205
Skydiving instructions— first jump course 
through advanced free fall technique. Sport of 
the space age. The ultimate rush. $65 w/ student 
I.D. Group rates. North Hills area. Freedom Sky- 
divers, 224-6624.
Typing—Experienced, freelance secretary, 
papers, theses, correspondence, resumes, sta­
tistics, etc. IBM Selectric II, 521-7888.
Help Wanted: Part-Time position available for 
college student to represent travel company on 
campus. Earn commission, free travel and work 
experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 
1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, N.Y. 
14221.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession­
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi­
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4PM.
For sale- Wm. Havnes-C. Piccolo Sterling Silver 
Conical #20128. For further information, please 
call: Frank Scelba between 5-8 PM, 201-796-5694.
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Specialize 
in last minute work. P\sertations, man’ «rripts, 
term papers, statistical, etc. Call 371-3657. 24 
hour servicee, IBM Selectric.
Used teletypes for sale. Model 33. $75 each. Call 
ext. 2835 between 9 and 5.
Student wanted for restaurant- counter help. Day­
light or late evening. Starting rate: $3.50/hr. 
Apply: Original Hot Dog Shop, 3901 Forbes 
Avenue, Oakland.
Cash: Wanted 10,000 “Wreckers and Junkers,” 23
hours. 422-9968.
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home - 
no experience necessary - excellent pay. Write- 
: National Service,9041 Mansfield,Suite
2004,Shreveport, Louisiana 71118 
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings. 687-3062.
Silver coins wanted! Highest prices in town paid 
for your silver coins. No amount too small. After
5 PM call 521-2749.
A cute, grey kitten is looking for a new home. 
Litter box trained. Call 683-8559 if interested. 
Typing-experienced, freelance secretary, will
type at home, resumes, theses, correspondence, 
tables, etc. Own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
club
The Students’ Dormitory Council meets every 
Wednesday night at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend 
and participate.
Explorer’s Club- Anyone who is interested in
white water rafting, climbing, hiking, caving, 
backpacking, skydiving, hang gliding or any 
other outdoor activity is welcome. Meetings are 
on Thursdays at 6:30, Skibo Rm. 11.
Oct. 28-Nov. 2 the Forbes Street Gallery will be 
exhibiting the artwork of Tony Fisher, Tim 
Caires and Judy Schecter. Opening night is Tues­
day, Oct. 28 at 7:30.
The Sacrament of the Altar will be discussed 
Sunday morning, November 2 at 9:15 AM at the 
Lutheran University Center.
Students interested in Study Abroad in England, 
Ireland, Scotland, Wales or Vienna are invited to 
meet with a Beaver College representative on 
Tuesday, October 28 at 2 PM in the Academic 
Advisory Center, BH 161. Please sign up by Mon­
day, October 27 with Dean LLoyd. Meetings later 
in the day may be arranged if there are class 
conflicts.
Professor Jan Kott, Polish-born scholar now 
teaching at SUNY Stony Brook, will visit in 
Pittsburgh this week. He will comment on the 
Russian film of Hamlet after its showing on 
Thursday, October 30, 10-12 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. Another showing of the film will 
be held Wednesday, October 29 in Hunt Multi­
purpose Room. Kott will also speak on “Recent 
Developments in Poland” on Friday, October 31 
from 11-12 in Skibo 11. He will present a lecture 
called “Julius Caesar and the Cutting of History” 
in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium (Pitt campus) 
on Thursday, October 30 at 4. Admission to all 
these events is free and open to the public.
The Communication Skills Center offers free 
individual instruction for students at all levels 
and in all colleges who need help with any aspect 
of writing. You can get tailor-made programs 
focused on specific writing and thinking skills, 
help in preparing and revising assignments, help 
with research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted instruction. Call 
or come in to make an appointment with a 
faculty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, Monday 
through Friday, 9:00 to 4:00.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 PM, in his 
office on Tuesday, November 4. Students who 
wish to meet with die president shoidd telephone 
his office, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
It is hop>ed that this program will be a benefit to 
both the president and the students in allowing 
direct contact with him.
You are invited to attend a general membership 
meeting and program entitled, “Moving 
Through Life-Three Aspects of Dance/Move­
ment Therapy”, Wednesday, October 29th at 7:30 
PM in the Children’s Room of the Scaife Gallery 
in Carnegie Institute. There will be refreshments 
and anyone with an interest in the expressive arts 
is encouraged to attend. There will be a small fee 
for non-members, but everyone is welcome to 
join. If you have any questions about the pro­
gram or would like more information about the 
Pittsburgh Association for the Arts in Education 
and Therapy, please call 683-5634.
“Country Dances”- 6 week classes forming now! 
“Have fun - be an urban cowboy or cowgirl.” 
Leam: country swing, 2-step, waltz, polka, coun­
try rock. Call for free brochure 241-2162.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS, holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
On Loss and Death, the non-credit class, con­
tinues this Wednesday evening at 7:30 PM (fol­
lowing Eucharist) at the Lutheran University 
Center.
All students interested in National Semi- 
Conductor should attend group session 
November 3 in Room 11 Skibo at 6 PM. Refresh­
ments. Scheduled interviewees must attend. 
Celebrate Word and Sacrament Sunday morn­
ings at 10:30 AM and Wednesday evenings at 7 
PM at the Lutheran University Center Chapel, 
4515 Forbes Ave. Services at Heinz Chapjel Sun­
day evenings at 6:15 PM.
general
The Forbes Street Gallery is planning on having 
a Christmas sale this coming winter. All those 
interested in selling their work please contact the 
gallery staff by calling extension 2117 or leave a 
note in the gallery mailbox located at the Skibo 
information desk.
(Calliope House presents “A Concert of Tradi­
tional Irish and American Folk Music” w ith Mal­
colm Dalglish and Grey Larsen, along with 
Kevin Bourke and Michael O’Domhnaill (of Ire­
land’s Bothy Band). 8:00 PM on Friday, 
November 14, 1980, at the Chatham College 
Chapel (Shadyside). For tickets or further infor­
mation call Calliopie House at 322-6359.
RESEARCH CHEMISTS ORGANIC SYNTHESIS
Hilton-Davis, a world leader in color chemistry, has entry level positions available for PhD Chemists involving the synthesis and characterization of new compounds, improved preparations for existing products, as 
well as some scale-up and troubleshooting work.These positions, located in Cincinnati, offer excellent opportu­nities in a modern and well-equipped research facility.
Forward resume 
to Kevin Nadzam.
HILTON-DAVIS
2235 Langdon Farm Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 45237
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/FH>
How to stretch your college dollars.
You don’t have to be a math genius to figure it out. Basic money 
management and careful budgeting are two very effective ways to 
keep from feeling the pinch when money gets tight. And we’ll tell n 
you how to do just that, and more, in our next issue of ^
“Insider,” the free supplement to your college 
newspaper from Ford.
WeH explain how to meet the high cost of tuition 
through scholarships and student loans. We’ll set up guidelines for developing your own 
personal finance system ... like custom 
tailoring a budget... choosing and 
maintaining a checking account 
.. ^and obtaining and using 
credit wisely. And we’ll 
offer tips on how to
stick to those budgets. 
With info on where to 
live, and how to get the best 
buys on food, entertainment, 
clothing, travel, textbooks, 
stereos, and more. Then we’ll tell 
you how to be sure you’re getting what 
you pay for. And how to complain when
you don’t.
Check it out. You’ll find some great tips on how 
to stretch your college dollars. And who knows, 
you may even discover being frugal can be fun!
Also be sure to check out Ford’s exciting new 1981 
lineup, including Escort. The front-wheel drive car that’s 
built to take on the world. With Escort you'll find some great
ways to multiply your fun.
Look for “Insider*—Ford’s continuing series of college newspaper supplements.
FORD
FORD DIVISION
