HumTARTAN
Volume 65 - Number 8Wednesday, November 3,1965
Tech Tartan 
Coes National
A very unexpected bit of news 
was placed on the editor's desk this 
week in the form of a copy of “Con­
gressional record" for Thursday, 
October 21. On page six of the ap­
pendix was an extension of the re­
marks of senator Jacob K. Javits 
of’New York: “Mr. President, the 
dean of the College of Fine Arts 
at Carnegie Institute of Technolo­
gy, Dr. Norman O. Rice, has re­
cently written an illuminating ar­
ticle, “The Artist and His Stu­
dies/' which appeared in the Sep­
tember 15 issue of the Carnegie 
Tech Tartan. This article is es­
pecially pertinent in the light of 
the recent enactment into law of the 
National Foundation for the Arts 
and Humanities Act of 1965. I 
ask unanimous consent that the ar­
ticle be printed in the Appendix 
of the RECORD."
The motion was passed and the 
text of the article will be preser­
ved In the National Archives.
Coordinator Hired 
For Food Services
L. E. Price has been appointed to the new posi­
tion of Carnegie Tech Food Service Coordinator.
As coordinator Price will serve as the liaison 
between students and the food service in matters 
concerning food, preparation and variety. He will 
meet with students to discuss food problems and an­
swer questions that arise.
Price will also work with food 
service employees to maintain 
good relations between Stouffers 
and the administration. Price will 
consult with the manager of Food 
Service, Harry W. Helm, on daily 
operating problems and relations 
with Carnegie Tech faculty and 
staff, and work closely with em­
ployees to see what complaints are 
being raised and what improve­
ments can be made in these areas.
Price will also consider chan­
ges and improvements in dining 
facilities throughout the campus.
He will review the physical plants 
to judge whether operations in 
these areas can be made more 
workable.
Price was previously associated 
with the Food Service at St. 01 af 
College, Northfield Minnesota. Af­
filiated with food service opera­
tions for many years in industrial, 
commercial and private feeding 
establishments, he is a member 
of the Minnesota College and Uni­
versity Food Consultants and The 
National Association of College and 
University Food Consultants.
He hopes that student food com­
mittees can be formed to work 
with him on current and long term 
problems. In this way Price feels 
that he will come in direct con­
tact with the complaints contin­
ually raised by students about their 
eating areas. He expects that there 
will be a good response to his de­
sires for student participation in 
food service.
Price will have an office in 
Morewood Gardens. He will be in 
his office and around the food areas 
for consultation on the part of stu­
dents. If students have specific 
complaints that they would like 
to voice, they may make appoint­
ments by calling his office, 621- 
1S66.
L. E. Price 
Food Service Coordinator
SC Committee 
To Discuss 
’66 Budget
The Finance Committee of Stu­
dent Congress will hold two open 
meetings during the next week. TTie 
purpose of these will be to speed 
the passing of the Student Acti­
vities Budget In both Student Con­
gress and Executive Council, and 
to aid in inter-organizational and 
general campus understanding of 
Student Government finances.
At the meetings of all organi­
zations receiving money from 
student government will be read 
and general discussion will be 
held, lead by the finance com­
mittee and the treasurer of the 
Executive Council.
The committee hopes that in this 
manner all major questions will 
be answered before the 1966 - 
67 Student Activities Budget is 
brought before the floor of Con­
gress.
A meeting for all organiza­
tions except publications will be 
held tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. in 
Sklbo, Room 40, and the meeting 
for publications will be held on 
November 7 at 8 p.m. in the 
Sldbo Wherrett Room. All mem­
bers of Student Congress, exe­
cutive Council, all organizations, 
and any other interested persons 
are Invited to come to these 
meetings.
Humum21. 5u9m6 
-SLE H9PEr.
Sorority Open House and touring 
will be held on Sunday, November 
7.
The assembly will begin at 1 
p.m. at the Skibo Ballroom. Tour­
ing in the fraternity houses will 
follow. Visits to each sorority 
will last 25 minutes.
There will be no grade require­
ment for rushees to attend Open 
House, however, attendance is 
compulsary for all women who wish 
to continue formal rush.
Campus Chest Drive Has
Goals For Large Intake
The Carnegie Tech Campus Chest drive will start this Friday. The drive 
will continue for 10 days. Its goal will be a high percentage of student contri­
butors.
The money raised by the organization will be divided equally among the 
World University Service, the National Scholarship Service for Negro Students 
(NSS FNS), and the Carnegie Tech Financial Aid Office. Each of these organi­
zations uses the money to help students. World University Service aids students 
internationally, the NSSFNS nationally, and the Financial Aid office at a local 
level.
A student may also contribute 
to four other charities through 
Campus Chest. They are the Pitts­
burgh Children’s Hospital, the Ko­
rean Welfare Boystown, the Ame­
rican Field Service, and the Ernie 
Davis Lukemia Fund. If one wishes 
his contribution to go to one of 
these he may specify this on the 
contribution envelope.
Joe Nirschl, Campus Chest 
Chairman, says that he hopes to 
have a more successful drive this 
year by increasing the amount of 
personal contact with each student. 
In the drives of 1955 through 1959, 
and 1963, over $2000 dollars was 
collected yearly. In other recent 
years, the amount has been consi­
derably less than this. Nirschl 
feels that “the high participa­
tion of 1963 indicates . . . that 
recent campaigns fell down not 
from lack of student interest, but 
from failure of the committee to 
effectively contact large segments 
of the student population.'*
This year more than 200 soli­
citors will attempt to personally 
contact every student with the ex­
ception of graduate students living 
off campus. They will receive the 
information through the mail. 
There will be one or two solici­
tors on every floor in the dorms 
and Morewood Gardens, one in 
every frat, and one for each year 
and department of commuters.
Each solicitor will have contri­
bution envelopes and pamphlets 
explaining each charitable orga­
nization which money will go to. 
They will also have a pamphlet
explaining Campus Chest itself.
Also, during the drive’s dura­
tion, there will be an exhibit about 
Campus Chest in Skibo's lobby. 
The exhibit will have photographs 
and descriptions of the work being 
done by the organizations receiving 
money from Campus Chest. TTiere 
will also be financial reports from 
the organizations at this exhibit.
Says Nirschl ; “We don’t like 
to set monetary goals for Campus 
Chest because we feel that It is 
primarily more important that a 
student want to give, and secondly 
that he give an amount that indi­
cates his sincerity in giving. From 
past campaigns experience the 
committee might suggest that a $2 
contribution is common and should 
not be a hardship for any Carnegie 
Tech student. However, we would 
like to reiterate that whatever 
is given will be deeply apprecia­
ted by the students throughout the 
world who will receive the benefit 
of this money."
A solicitor will contact each stu­
dent twice during the duration of 
the drive. TTie first time he will 
try to explain the purpose of the 
drive, and the second time to pick 
up any contribution. Each solici­
tor will have information on each 
of the organizations receiving 
money.
There will be a meeting of the 
solicitors today at 4:30 p.m. in 
the Sklbo Wherrett Room. At this 
meeting there will be a speaker 
from NSSFNS and the World Uni­
versity Service. Anyone who is in­
terested may attend.
Austrian Delegate To U.N. 
Speaks At 5 O’Clock Forum
“Will Europe become united or will there be a 
third world war which would eliminate European 
unity?" are the topics to be discussed by Dr. Karl 
Czernetz, leading Austrian statesman, when he visits
Pittsburgh on November 5.The World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh will host 
Dr. Czernetz at a Five O’Clock Forum to be held at 
5 p.m. in the Terrace Room of the Penn-Sheraton 
Hotel.
Dr. Czernetz, member of the 
Austrian Parliament and Chair­
man of the Foreign Affairs Com­
mittee, is presently serving as a 
delegate to the General Assembly 
of the United Nations. He is a lead­
ing authority on social and political 
changes in Eastern Europe and the 
developing countries and their re­
lationship to the wider Atlantic 
Community. He is vice chairman of 
the Council of Europe in Stras­
bourg, editor-in-chief of the per­
iodical “Die Zukunft* (The Future), 
and author of the book *W1U the 
Third World War Come?*
The Forum is open to the public.
Representatives of all public 
media (press, radio and TV) are 
invited to attend a Press Confer-
ence for Dr. Karl Czernetz at 
10:45 a.m. on Friday, November 
5, in the Board Room of the World 
Affairs Council Headquarters, 10th 
floor of Kaufmannes
Hiu1ic ePE HuEr
The Scotch and Soda meeting 
for those students Interested in 
participating in any phase of this 
year's production has been re­
scheduled for November 7, at 7 
p.m. In the Sklbo Wherret Room,
Those who wish to audition will 
be told what material they should 
prepare.
In addition, slides of ‘ 'What- 
serface” will be shown to fresh­
men and new members.
Y Schedules 
3 Firesides 
For Students
A series of International 
Firesides in faculty homes 
are scheduled this month 
by the campus YMCA and 
YWCA. These firesides 
have been established to 
acquaint students with fa­
culty outside of the class­
room.
Professor and Mrs. Richard 
Moore of the Math Department will 
be hosts on Sunday, November 7.
Students will meet at the Y of­
fice, 57 Sklbo, at 7 p.m. and will 
return about 10 p.m.
On Sunday, November 14, the 
hosts will be Professor and Mrs. 
Benjamin Griffith, of the history 
department. Students will meet at 
7:15 p.m. and return by 10:30 p.m.
On Monday, November 15 stu­
dents will meet at 7:45 p.m. to walk 
to the home of Professor and Mrs. 
Hugh Young of the physics and 
natural sciences departments.
All students who wish to par­
ticipate in the program must re­
gister at the Y office by Novem­
ber 5th, since each visiting group 
will be limited to eight or ten 
students, and each host must know 
how many to expect. The program 
has been designed to acquaint stu­
dents with faculty outside of the 
classroom.
HF2ou H19E. duuv6
Unused rooms In the basement of 
Sklbo will be available for study 
use every weekday evening after 7
Pwm.
Keys to these rooms may be 
obtained at the information desk 
upon presentation of a Carnegie 
Tech identification card.
Women dormitory residents who 
wish to use the facilities should 
sign out according to their usual 
curfews.
e9E2uCn269rL HSma2iS
An audio - visual equipment 
repair, equipment supply and ope­
rator scheduling service has been 
set up in Porter Hall 10.
Robert A. Love has been em­
ployed as technician and his ser­
vices may be obtained by calling 
Carnegie Tech extension 480, 481, 
or 482.
Members of Alpha Phi Omega 
will be employed as operators.
However, those members of the 
student body who wish to apply 
for positions as paid operators 
should contact Love.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 3,1965
dtn“tl
“Hotel Paridiso”-Riotous!
This year’s theatre season at Carnegie Tech open­
ed last week with a production of “Hotel Paradiso” 
directed by Lewis Palter. Dr. Palter*s production of 
a riotess French farce is complete with every gag a 
director, actor or audience could wish for including 
marital squabbles, mistaken identity, a willing third 
party, an outraged husband, an overbearing wife. A 
simple domestic quarrel is complicated again and 
again until the tables are completely turned and it 
takes an act of the gods to restore order.
Jeffrey Chandler (the willing
third party) carried the leading 
role brilliantly. What he lacks 
in age is more than made up for 
In a technical facility rarely seen 
among professionals, let alone 
young actors. His energy was li­
mitless. His performance was fill­
ed with Imaginative, detailed, well- 
constructed moments. He was a de­
light.
Chandler was well supported by 
Penelope Reed and Penelope Wind- 
ust, the former playing his domi­
neering wife and the latter, the 
object of his affections. Miss Reed 
gave a marvelous demonstration of 
her vocal and emotional range 
and Miss Windust was the perfect 
match for Chandler’s talent. Mi­
chael Brown, playing the bull - 
headed husband of Miss Windust 
completed the cast of principles.
One of the most delightful 
aspects of the production was Mi­
chael Tucker's performance as M. 
Martin. He handled a very diffi­
cult role with the finesse of a ve­
teran. Most impressive was the 
economy with which he played 
contrasting the broader manner 
of Chandler.
Of the more minor characters 
none can be harshly criticized. 
All turned in complete perfor­
mances with unusual committment, 
Louis Simon and Deborah Sussel 
were excellent. Both showed per­
ceptive character progression, so 
necessary for a believable per­
formance, while retaining all the 
humor of the farcical situation. 
The dingy Hotel Paradiso of the 
second act came alive with the 
characterizations of Richard Hu­
ghes, Michael Mund, Sue Willer- 
man, Bob LaPorta and Misha Wil­
liams.
TTiere is no doubt that this pro­
duction was successful from an au- 
dence viewpoint. We were tho­
roughly entertained by a number of 
outstanding performances, an ex- 
ceedlingly funny script and an 
overall consistent production. 
However, as we watched the pro­
duction, the thought occurs that the 
production in itself somehow mis­
ses being all that it could be. It 
is funny, yes, but could go far­
ther. One of the best lessonsofthe 
show is embodied in Michael Tuck­
er's performance . . Economy, 
The play is most definitely the 
broadest type of Farce, but an au­
dience ceases to be amused when 
the humor is consistently blatent. 
The directorial emphasis must be 
placed on the situation in this {day. 
The problem of this production 
seemed to be that the situation 
was not allowed to take place . , , 
it was forced into being. The hu­
mor of the situation is In the man­
ner in which the events compli­
cate and re-compllcate themsel­
ves, leading the characters into 
hopeless entanglements. When this 
is pushed by actor or director onto 
the audience it is no longer amu­
sing, or perhaps, at best amusing. 
This is perhaps the reason that 
the first act was by far superior 
to the latter two. At the end of the 
first act we had seen almost all 
that we were going to see of cer­
tain characters and had all that was 
necessary of broad comedy. The 
second act had many virtues, no 
doubt but they began to wear thin 
by the opening of the third act 
which was the weakest of the three.
The most obvious weakness 
of the production were technical. 
The costumes were totally incon­
gruous. Miss Windust's costume 
was a breath of spring, while Miss 
Reed was clothed for the dead of
winter. One wondered also about 
the extreme sloppiness of some of 
the costumes ... unpressed shirts, 
ravelling skirts, obvious rips in a 
number of dresses. The situation 
was the same with the set. A great 
number of illusions were lost when 
doors failed to close and flats seem­
ed on the verge of toppling at every 
entrance. These are important 
considerations and do have a very 
definite effect on an audience.
All in all the production was an 
exciting opening to any exciting 
season
M & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED - NEW MODERN
QUARTERS - ACROSS ST., 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
STRAN683-6992D
MAMJM1 1*¦UNDOBflYNNER
SOPHIA IHN
PETER SELLERS 
àThe
Millionairess
COI.O» B, D€ CUKE
Tickets - $4.50 - $3.50 - $2.50 Mosque 2 NITES SAT., 
NOV. 20 - SUN., NOV. 21 - 8:15 p.m. Tickets on sale 
in Oakland at National Record Mart. On sale Downtown 
at Horne's, Gimbel's, Sam Goody Record Store.
EEEEEZEE
PLAYHOUSE-CARNEGIE TECH CO.
In association 
with the
A series of richly rewarding stage events” , Post-Gazette editorial
TEN GREAT PRODUCTIONS IN REPERTORY
I
I
I
I
TARTUFFE
Mol ¡©re’s comedy adapted by Richard Wilbur.
"Th/s is a production to be savored not just once 
buy several times.*'
- Harold V. Cohen, Post-Gaxette
DEATH OF A SALESMAN
By Arthur Miller: Pulitzer Prize and Critics Circle Award Play 
“The great play of our day.”
— Howard Barnes, N. Y. Herald Tribune
THE DEVIL’S DISCIPLE
By George Bernard Shaw
“Shavian wit sparkles at the Playhouse.”
— Kaspar Monahan, Press
SIX CHARACTERS
By Pirandello: In Search of An Author 
translated by Paul Avila Mayer 
"A stimulating piece of contemporary theatre.”KING LEAR ” Carl G#,u,chat' McKeesport Daily News
By William Shakespeare
“This King Lear captures the passions of the play.”
— George Anderson, New Kensington Daily Dispatch
THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS
Goldoni's comedy adapted by Edward J. Dent
"The most entertaining of the plays ACT has given 
here so far.'
TINY ALICE
By Edward Albee
"Calculated to inspire as much spirited dialogue among 
those who see it as is provided for the actors.”
— Win Fanning, Post-Gazette
— Lee Mclnerney, Post-Gazette
Thurs., Nov. 4; Sun., Nov. 7; Fri., Nov. 12; Tues., 
Nov. 16; Wed., Nov. 17; Sun., Nov. 21; Wed. (MAT- 
INEE 2:30 PLUS EVE. 8:30) Dec. 1.
Wed., Nov. 3; Thurs., Nov. 4; Sat., Nov. 6; Thurs., 
Nov. 11; Sat. (MATINEE 2:30 PLUS EVE. 8:30) 
Nov. 13; Sun., Nov. 14; Wed., Nov. 17; Thurs., 
Nov. 18; Tues., Nov. 23; Thurs., Nov. 25; Fri., 
Nov. 26; Wed. (MATINEE 2:30) Dec. 1; Sat., Dec. 4.
Wed., Nov. 3; Thurs. (MATINEE 2:30) Nov.4; 
Sat., Nov. 6; Thurs., Nov. 11; Sat., Nov. 13; Sun., 
Nov. 14; Tues., Nov. 23; Thurs., Nov. 25; Fri., 
Nov. 26.
Sun., Nov. 7; Fri., Nov. 12; Tues., Nov. 16; Sun., 
Nov. 21; Wed., Dec. 1; Thurs. (MATINEE 2:30) 
Dec. 2.
Tues., Nov. 2; Wed., Nov. 10; Thurs. (MATINEE 
2:30) Nov. 11; Fri., Nov. 19; Wed., Nov. 24; Sat. 
(MATINEE 2:30) Nov. 27; Sun., Nov. 28; Tues., 
Nov. 30; Thurs., Dec. 2; Sun., Dec. 5-
Tues., Nov. 2; Wed., Nov. 10; Wed., Nov. 24; Sun., 
Dec. 5-
Fri., Nov. 5; Tues., Nov. 9; Sat., Nov. 27; Sun. 
(MATINEE 2:30) Nov. 28; Fri., Dec. 3; Sat., Dec. 4-
I
Fri., Nov. 5; Tues., Nov. 9; Sat., Nov. 27; Fri., 
Dec. 3; Fri., Nov. 19; Sat., Nov. 20; Sun., Nov. 28; 
Tues., Nov. 30; Thurs., Dec. 2.
Fri., Nov. 19; Sat., Nov. 20; Sun., Nov. 28; Tues., 
Nov. 30; Thurs., Dec. 2.
Thurs. (MATINEE 2:30 PLUS EVE. 8:30) Nov. 18; 
Sat., (MATINEE 2:30 PLUS EVE. 8:30) Nov. 20.
AMERICAN CONSERVATORY THEATRE
WAIIAM BUI, ARTISTIC DIRECTOR
APOLLO OF BELLAG (Giraudoux)ANTIGONE '
By Jean Anouilh
"Antigone is a striking theatrical oddity.”
— Kaspar Monahan, Press
IN WHITE AMERICA
By Martin R. Duberman
'IN WHITE AMERICA” brings history vividly to the stage 
and to life.”
— Editorial, Post-GazetteI
 THE ROSE TATTOO
. By Tennessee Williams
"Williams has seldom written so eloquently .. . Sada 
Thompson strikes fire.”
- Kaspar Monahan, Press
RESERVATIONS 621-4445
sSm”umvrPiS6 2P tric u” 5Ru 5cSr1Sm6 !2Mc1L. t&iSJ1 BuPEr. 5cmr A1i1SF1m O1F4 
b9m1r2P VDNW 59 S64 5cm9 Hr14Q H9P4 UDNW4 eLL HSr16 TN4NW t. t&iSJ1 Hr14D T,4,W8H19ESP1 
dr1S6 TK4OW rPE Th4 sLr.cu96SI bmr”1 eaS4 r1 -rvLS1I s2116o9mMcI sr4 KOhKN

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3.
Student* DivisionBrookfield IndiMfriw 1390 Avtnu* of the Amorko* N#w York 19, New York
Peace Corps 
Information 
At Assembly
“The Peace Corps, Mar­
riage, and the Corporate 
Ladder” will be discussed 
at the November 9 student 
assembly in the Skibo 
Wherrett Room.
A Peace Corps team of four, 
including a Washington Staff mem­
ber and three returned volunteers 
will speak briefly about the pro­
gram and answer students' ques­
tions for the remainder of the 
assembly.
A Peace Corps information booth 
will be set up in Skibo lobby during 
the week of November 8 and the 
Peace Corps Placement Test will 
be administered in Skibo from 
Wednesday through Saturday.
The assembly and information 
booth will provide those juniors 
and seniors considering the Peace 
Corps as a career alternative with 
the opportunity to discuss the 
•real* Peace Corps with veterans 
who have had experience with the 
program.
Giraudoux And 
Anouilh Scheduled
In Double Bill
Jean Giraudoux* “Apollo of Bel- 
lac” opens at the Pittsburgh Play­
house this Friday as part of a “two 
one - acts” bill with a conden­
sed version of Jean Anouilh’s 
“Antigone."
Twice postponed because of 
cast illnesses, the play is the last 
of the additions to the American 
Conservatory Theatre repertory to 
open. The “Apollo” - “Antigone" 
bill will also play November 9; 
November 27; and December 3.
The current ACT schedule, 
which runs until December 5, fea­
tures nine other plays besides 
“Antigone*’ and ««Apollo»'. The 
others are “Tartuffe,’» ««Tiny 
Alice,*» ««Six Characters in Search 
of an Author/» «‘TheRose Tattoo,” 
"King Lear,»» ««The Servant of 
Two Masters,»» «‘The Devil’s Dis­
ciple,»' ««in White America,’» and 
««Death of a Salesman.»»
Ticket reservations or infor­
mation may be obtained by calling 
the Playhouse at 621-4445, or wri­
ting: The Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
222 Craft Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY’S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
b »uuF €P HrLS 
“P »uuF61umS
TECH AIR CHARTER
Single & Multi engine aircraft available at all times. Flight to 
Anywhere in the United States and Canada. Aircraft &''Crew are 
FAA approved for commercial and instrument flight (all weother.) 
Reduced rates to New York, Washington, Cleveland, Chicago, 
Detroit, Philadelphia & Boston. For immediate reservation & 
information phone: 683*3584, 421*7106.
‘endsville '
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Oakland Headquarters ior “a. League Fashion
FORBES * ATWOOD OPEN MON., WED., * F*I.. til »
"TAKEN TOKEN"
HJSrF2PM u” kH5e5$H H0B»€3HqC craS 
.u9 6SSP 1cSPSRS61 rPE vu61 62MP2”2irP1 
uPS u” 1cSv rLL: 5cS k5ept! 5€pt!q 26 
w961 Rcr1 216 PrvS 2vJL2S6I 4421 6Sma2iS6 
Pu12iS 1u SaSm.uPS 1cr1 .u9m kH5teA0C q 
26 k5ept!q4 5c26 oSr912”9L 61SmL2PM 62LaSm 
!2SLLuRrmS m2PM 26 crPEvrES o. 6F2LLSE 
rm126rP6 2P 1cS 9P2'9S H2rvS6S 1SicP2'9S 
Er12PM oriF 1u 1cS ,1c bSP19m. »4b4I rPE 
26 2vJum1SE ”muv 5c2rLrPE4 5cS crPECC
irmaSE ”2M9mS6 rmS oSr912”9LL. 6.vouL2i 
u” .u9PM LuaSm6 SaSm.RcSmS4 “1 ”216 rP. 
”2PMSm rPE 26 Jmu9EL. RumP o. ou1c 
6S&S6Rcu mSrLL. irmS4 3uuF ”um 21 2P 1cS 
!uaSvoSm 2669S u” GLrvu9m BrMry2PS4
e l€dA 5€ 5-t l“HtZZ
H2PiS 1cS6S m2PM6 rmS crPEvrESI RS irP 
uPL. 2vJum1 r ”SR c9PEmSE u” 1cSv r1 r 
12vSIRc2ic vSrP6 9PLS66 .u9 umESm .u9m6 
1uEr.I.u9 vr. craS 1u Rr21”um u9m PS&1 
6c2JvSP14 »S11Sm km2PM 1cr1 61SrE.q m2Mc1 
PuR oS”umS 6uvS iLr2v w9vJSm 1m2S6 1u 
vuaS 2P4
$5.95-PI«s 25$ Pestif«
R. FIEGER I SON,
P.O. BOX 1986, 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15230
You’re In 
the know in 
this Ivy winner 
by University Seal. 
Your choice of 
rich wool and 
wool blend fabrics, 
in groovy 3-piece 
model with reversible 
vest (matching and 
contrasting.) A buy 
at only $50. If it’s 
University Seal, you 
know it's for real!
Ceilidh To Show 
3 Folk Films
The Carnegie Ceilidh will Ini­
tiate a series of free film show­
ings this Friday at 9 p.m. In the 
Skibo Wherrett Room. Four films 
dealing with folk music and lore 
will be shown: “Whaler Out of New 
Bedford,” featuring Ewan Mac- 
Coll, A. L. Lloyd and Peggy See- 
ger; “TTie Singing Streets”, a re­
miniscence of children’s game 
songs and rhymes from Scotland; 
“Songs of Nova Scotia,” a film of 
material collected by Canadian, 
Helen Cartwright; and “Indian 
Summer,” with musical score by 
Mike and Peter Seeger.
This film showing will be open 
to everyone interested in folklore.
The November 12 Ceilidh will 
continue its program with a pre­
sentation of Norwegian folk music 
and dance.
You're making a statement when 
you wear this Arrow Cum Laude. 
An antique gold and brown boxed 
in with burgundy. With authentic 
detailing, too. Gently flared 
button-down collar. Back collar 
button and box pleat. Shoulder 
to waist taper. ‘‘Sanforized”, 
of course. $5.00. Wear it and 
make a statement: 
it's great to be alive.Bold New Breed by-ARROW-
How to make a bold statement

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 3, 1965
EditorioLUsurped Responsibility
Last week the Student Congress rejected the re­
vised constitution for student government. The.Tartan 
had advocated this particular course of action for 
several weeks, and it now commends the congress for 
having acted in a fashion which was, in this news­
paper’s editorial opinion, both decisive and wise.
One of the first objections which the Tartan raised 
to the revised constitution was that it provided for the 
usurpation of executive powers and responsibilities 
by the head of the legislative branch, i.e., the chair­
man of Student Congress. Although the congress did, 
in fact, reject the revised constitution, usurpation of 
power has not been prevented. Indeed, it has occurred 
and is now in progress within the Student Congress 
itself, while the members of the congress remain in 
ignorance of this phenomenon, through imperfect in­
formation, or simply indifference.
The chairman of Student Congress has been 
operating under procedures which directly and 
flagrantly violate the present constitution of student 
government.
The constitution states, “The handling of Congress 
business is vested in the Internal Standing Commit­
tees. " They are, consequently, or primary importance. 
It is provided that the chairman of congress appoint 
the chairmen of the internal standing committees in 
May, shortly after his election, and that these ap­
pointments are subject to the approval of all the cur­
rent, i.e., outgoing committee chairmen. In reality, 
however, the making of many of these appointments 
was deferred by the chairman to this fall, when they 
could, of course, not be approved by the out-going 
committee chairmen.
Furthermore, appointments of both committee 
chairmen and committee members are subject to the 
approval of the congress as a whole. The fact is, 
however, that they were never submitted to the con­
gress for approval.
The constitution further provides that the vice- 
chairman of the congress shall chair the Rules 
Committee. This is not, at present, the case; rather, 
the chairman appointed another student of his own 
choosing to head the Rules Committee. Not only,how­
ever, has the proper leader of the Rules Committee had 
his responsibilities usurped, the responsibilities of the 
committee as a whole have been undermined. The 
Rules Committee is theoretically responsible for 
determining the order of business for each congress 
meeting, and for publishing the congress agenda, both 
of which duties have been carried out by the chair­
man of congress himself.
There is one committee for which the constitution 
provides that the chairman has not only failed to 
maintain, but has simply failed to establish: the Con­
stitution Committee, the chairman of which, by the 
way, is to be the parliamentarian of congress. Be­
cause there is no committee, there is no chairman, 
and, hence, no parliamentarian. Two of the respon­
sibilities which the constitution gives to this com­
mittee are: (1) to “review and present to Congress 
all proposals for changes in the standing rules and in 
the constitution; and (2) to “review the constitution 
periodically and recommend needed changes.” Be­
cause the congress is now seeking to establish an 
entirely new student government constitution, it would 
seem logical to invest the responsibility for its 
formulation in the hands of the Constitution Com­
mittee, rather than the Rules Committee to which it is 
now assigned.
The Tartan maintains that a constitution to which 
the student government does not adhere is valueless, 
and that to ignore it will serve only to further 
weaken the government, rather than to strengthen it.
The president of the Executive Council, at a recent 
meeting of that body, affirmed the authority and validity 
of the present constitution. If the chairman of Student 
Congress does not take immediate remedial measures 
which will cause the operation of Student Congress to 
conform to the constitution, the Tartan will expect the 
Executive Council to exercise its authority to enforce 
the laws of student government, by taking swift and 
decisive action, compelling that conformity. It is 
imperative that this usurption of power and respon­
sibility be stopped.
Annual Subscription Rat«: $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except 
during holidays and examination periods by the students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The Search For Understanding
Cultural Exchange
The United States is faced with many grave problems which relate 
to China —the continuing Vietnamese conflict and China's potential as 
a nuclear power —to name only a few. United States policies presently 
ignore China and have, generally speaking, been indifferent towards her 
for the past century. Wilson, Roosevelt, and Truman all placed the 
stability of Western Europe above that of China and this was reflected 
in the many treaties made during their administrations.
Most Americans now realize that the co-operation, or at least the 
participation of China, is essential for the solution of these problems. 
However, the Western world is ^u*gely ignorant of and indifferent 
concerning the culture of China. This lack of information about Chinese 
thought and culture has resulted in a lack of understanding of its 
people. And if the Chinese way of thought is not understood by Ameri­
cans, it is senseless to assume that settlement concerning any issue 
will occur.
The differences between Chinese and Western ways of life is indeed 
formidable, and this article can be only a brief indication of the 
variation. The West has followed the path of the conquest of nature. 
Science now has the power to destroy all life on this planet — a con­
quest of nature, indeed. Yet we still live in an age of anxiety and most 
of us are not fully satisfied. Although our society has more wealth 
and luxuries than any preceding one, the desires of society have also 
grown faster than her possessions. Technology has so dominated the 
Western way of life that little attention has been given to relations to 
men.
The emphasis of the Chinese civilization has been almost the opposite. 
Little attempt has been made to conquer nature; instead, the Chinese 
have sought to live in harmony with it. The great concern in China 
throughout history has been with human relations. From the Western 
point of view however, China is exemplified by a lack of material 
progress. But the Chinese have discovered something which seems to 
be nonexistent in our Western society. Most Chinese are content, a word 
which is not often heard in the modern West. Most of the Chinese have 
shown an unusual talent for happiness, even in the midst of poverty and 
suffering. They have been able to find joy in things that many of us over­
look; a bird squirrel, a flower, or the mere singing of birds. Realizing 
that tomorrow may never come, they have enjoyed living today.
The Western realist will label contentment as a vice—it has made it 
impossible for the Chinese to progress and to compete in the modern 
world. Perhaps it has, but it is not because contentment is bad in it­
self but only because it has been carried to an extreme, and not temper­
ed by a sense of moderation.
Chinese philosophy does not provide the answer to every problem 
confronting modern man. Neither, for that matter, does any philosophy 
that has yet been devised. Certainly, there is much that China can learn 
from the West, as the Chinese are well aware. There is also much that 
we could learn from China, but this seems to be less readily acceptable 
among Americans.
If one accepts the hypothesis that Chinese people must be under­
stood before any of the major problems facing America today can be 
solved, then the motivation is clear. Through reading, discussion 
groups, speaker programs, and other educational means, the process 
of understanding can be started at last.
Troika By John Day
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Uniween
Wind and darkness and a wax­
ing moon. All Hallow's Eve, Hal­
loween, an ancient time of ghos- 
ties and ghoulies, the night the 
mundane world surrenders to 
things that go bump in the night 
and to a delicious horror. Hallo« 
ween is a time for children to 
kick over the traces of parental 
supervision, to soap windows, up­
set blrdbaths, and smash pump­
kins.
Consider now, two manifesta­
tions of the supernatural, a ghost 
and a witch on a suburban street. 
They approach a house, knock, 
and the door is opened. With a 
mutual lack of enthusiasm, they 
thrust forward their milk car­
tons and mumble “trick or treat 
for U.N.I.C.E.F.”
Yechh!
The night that once belonged to 
children alone is now surrendered 
to the social welfare spirit of the 
adults. The kids, except for a few 
diehard romantics bent on mis­
chief, are marshalled into the lo­
cal church, the cartons are dis­
tributed, and neighborhoods (of­
ten unfamiliar) are assigned. Off 
to the unhappy little altruists while 
the parents wait at the church to 
count the loot.
Even Christmas is not im­
mune U.N.I.C.E.F. greeting cards, 
completely religious, further cloud 
(the sacred aspects of what was once 
a solely religious holiday. They 
seem bent on making Christmas 
an “International World Peace 
Festival.”
Admittedly, knocking U.N.I.
C.E.F. is like knocking mom and 
apple pie. The organization's good 
works are undeniable and we do 
not believe, as do the John Birch 
Society, that it is a tool of Com­
munism. We do believe, though, 
that United States contributions to 
U.N.I.C.E.F. Is an unnecessary du­
plication of effort. The United Sta­
tes government contributes ten 
million dollars annually, approxi­
mately half of their total bud­
get and U.N.I.C.E.F. gets two mil­
lion dollars from the children's 
effort each Halloween. Sixty-per- 
cent of U.N.I.C.E.F. budget then, 
comes from the United States. 
This can hardly be called an in­
ternational effort. Consider too 
that seven cents of every U.N.I.
C.E.F. dollar, nearly one and a half 
million dollars, Is used in the ad­
ministration of the program.
It would seem more logical that 
the United States foreign aid sys­
tem distribute the money direct­
ly, eliminating a duplication of 
bureaucracy and getting more help 
more directly to the children who 
need it.
Most Important is that the three 
out of four children in the world 
who need food, medicine, or clo­
thing, get it. Since sixty-percent 
of these benefits come from the 
United States, we see nothing im­
moral about a more direct admi­
nistration of this aid, a system, 
through which the United States 
might get the credit it needs and 
deserves among the world's deve­
loping nations.
MSU Program 
Provides Study 
In 5 Countries
College students in­
terested in study in Europe 
during the winter, spring 
and summer terms are in- î 
vited to apply now for Mi­
chigan State University 
programs beginning in 
1966.
Offered by the American Lang­
uage and Education Center 
(AMLEC) of MSU's Continuing 
Education Service, informal and 
economical programs are sched­
uled for Paris, France; Lausanne 
and Neuchatel, Switzerland; Flo­
rence, Italy; Cologne, Germany, 
and Barcelona and Madrid, Spain.
Winter programs will start on 
January 10, and the spring pro­
grams on April 18 (with the ex­
ception of the Madrid course which 
will begin April 11.) The deadline 
for winter term applications is De­
cember 10, and for spring term, 
March 18. «•
The programs will feature clas­
ses in conversation, composition, 
grammar, and reading. Partici­
pants will also visit pointsof his­
toric and geographic Interest, 
which become the topics of lec­
tures and seminar-type discus­
sions covering cultural, political, 
social and economic institutions 
of the country in which they are 
residing.
To promote the use of the for­
eign language and to provide them 
with opportunities to better under­
stand their European contempora­
ries, American participants will 
attend classes and share living ac­
commodations with students from 
many countries.
A descriptive brochures and 
application forms can be obtain­
ed by contacting AMLEC, 58-A <
Kellogg Center, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, Michi­
gan.
Education Offered 
In Asia Countries
jThe East-West Center in Hon­
olulu, Hawaii is offering Amer­
ican students the opportunity to 
learn about the people of Asia and 
earn a graduate degree at the 
same time.
The organization is a national 
institution established by the 
United States Congress to promote 
educational and cultural inter - 
change among the peoples of Asia, 
the Pacific Basin, and the United 
States. The center awards grants 
to students who are majoring in a 
field of study related to Asia or 
the Pacific.
Approximately 100 awards will 
be given to American students. 
These will include tuition, book, 
room and board, health Insurance 
and allowance expenses. They will 
also pay for travel to and from 
Hawaii. The grants will be renew­
able if necessary.
Applications for 1966 must be 
submitted no later than December 
15, 1965. Further Information may 
be obtained from; the Director of 
Student Selection, E-West Center, 
Honolulu, Hawaii, 96822.
Support
Your
Campus Chest

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
!r19mS €” 5cS $P2aSm621.
MMCC Provides (Balanced’ Education;
Combines The Liberal and Professiona I
by Dr. Erwin R. Steinberg 
Dean, H & SS and MMCC
In our rapidly changing society a college has the choice of anticipating the changing future needs of its 
students or simply responding as best it can to various pressures, tensions, and needs after they become 
apparent. Because the status of women and the demands made on women are changing more rapidly and 
are becoming more complicated than the status of men and the demands made on them, the choice of the 
former alternative is particularly crucial for women’s colleges.
The President's Commission on 
the Status of Women, books like 
The Feminine Mystique, widening 
opportunities for women in busi­
ness, industry and government, 
greater concern for family plan­
ning —^ all of these attest to im­
portant changes In the role of wo­
men, particularly educated women, 
in our society.
For several years, Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College has 
been in the forefront of the wom­
en’s colleges attempting to anti­
cipate those changes so that mean­
ingful adjustments could be made 
in our curricula, counseling pro­
grams, and extra-curricular acti­
vities to prepare our students to 
meet the world that would be facing 
them after they graduated. Our re­
search and development began 
about six years ago, when we dis­
covered from statistics prepared 
by the U.S. Department of Labor 
that in the future, women—parti­
cularly educated women — could 
expect to be gainfully employed 
in increasing numbers.
Partly to determine how the 
lives of MMCC graduates reflect 
Labor Department figures and 
partly to determine how MMCC 
could be of service to its alumnae 
in the Pittsburgh area, Professor 
Sonia Gold undertook a survey of 
our local alumnae in 1961. She re­
ported that:
82% of the group had worked 
full-time for more than a year 
after graduation. More unex­
pected was the knowledge that 
this group is married, with 
children ranging from one to 
14 (and a few with older chil­
dren). Moreover, 234, or 54% 
of those not working right now 
expect to return to work—77
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College
within two years, and 79 more 
within the next five years. 
(Thus, over 70% of the group 
are working or expect to be. 
within five years.)
Professor Gold also discover­
ed that 524 of the 733 women 
who return the questionnaire had 
continued their education: 121 had 
earned graduate degrees, 105 had 
taken graduate courses, and 198 
had taken non>degree courses at 
college level.
It was clear from the study that 
MMCC had to prepare a large por­
tion of its students not only to be 
good citizens, wives, and mothers, 
but also to continue their studies 
and spend a considerable number
From The Middle Of The Bus
o. B2icrSL BrLrFu””
Freedom 
And Hattiesburg
Today I got out of jail. Freedom is a wonderful thing. Things that 
most of us take for granted suddenly become meaningful — a meal 
with meat, a tooth brush, a new change of clothes or just the opportunity 
to stand out in the sun. We spent the day at a cafe exchanging exper­
iences.
Two days later, and before I left Jackson, we organized one more 
march to the capitol. At each Intersection, the police regulated our 
movement by permitting only about twenty people to cross the street 
at a time. The next group would have to wait a few minutes as the 
police directed traffic against the lights. I could see that they were 
having ahard time keeping their hands off of us. There was much name- 
calling by the bystanders and one of the reverends who was leading the 
march was hit by a racist, but in comparison with previous marches 
we arrived safely at the capitol. The injunction on Jackson set down by 
the Federal Courts, was only a beginning, however, and as a result of 
the unfriendly conditions there we were moved to Hattiesburg, which is 
considered one of the better organized and more sympathetic com­
munities in Mississippi. At Hattiesburg we were to receive our county 
assignments and a final orientation. Our first night there, the police 
constantly harrassed us. They drove up and down the streets in front 
of the MFDP office shining search lights in the windows. Two MFDP 
people were arrested or fined on the first night: one for wearing glasses 
when his Mississippi permit did not state he needed them; they were sun­
glasses. The other for disobeying an officer. Hie officer had driven by a 
trio of civil rights workers and told them to get off the sidewalk. TOe 
trio had started to obey promptly, but the officer felt that the Negro in the
group had not moved fast enough. Mississippi justice?
In Hattiesburg I stayed with a Negro family in a typical Negro dwell­
ing; with no inside plumbing, indeed no running water. The family was 
very amiable. They kept their place clean and served good food. It 
was plain, however, that they were sorry that they could not offer us 
more.
of years in gainful employment. 
The faculty also began to consi­
der the colleges responsibility to 
mature women who wanted addi­
tional education in order to qualify 
for professional positions. Re­
sponding to this need, the faculty 
of the college planned several new 
programs and made significant 
changes in various curricula. For 
example, they developed:
1. A new degree in technical 
writing and editing.
2. New degrees in science 
(the B.A. In math, physics, che­
mistry and biology)
3. honors courses which focus 
on the role of women in literary 
and historical documents and on 
the role of educated women in 
society.
4. special programs, in conjunc­
tion with the Board of Education, 
to prepare some mature women to 
teach social sciences or modern 
languages in the secondary schools 
and others to teach in pre-primary 
programs in deprived neighbor­
hoods.
To provide better counseling to 
guide our students as carefully as 
possible toward their obviously 
complex future, Dean Betty Jane 
Lloyd ran:
1. a two-year study of counseling 
programs in women’s colleges.
2. a conference in May of 1964, 
with support from the U.S. Office 
of Education, on needed research 
and development in counseling and 
higher education for women.
3. a conference in May of 1965, 
in cooperation with the Women's 
Bureau of the U.S. Department 
of Labor and with support from the 
Rockerfeller Brothers Fund, which 
brought together, probably for the 
first time for such a purpose, 
faculty counselors and women un­
dergraduates, to seek new patterns 
of counseling.
She has reported on these In 
two Journal articles and two mono­
graphs, all of which are available 
in the Hunt Library.
To learn more about the MMCC 
undergraduate and her needs and 
about the world she Is preparing 
to enter to prepare her for the 
complexities of her post-college 
life, members of the faculty and 
staff of MMCC also undertook:
1. a second study of our alum­
nae, now being completed.
2. a study of the leadership be­
havior of women in government, 
now being completed.
3. a four-year study of the class 
which entered MMCC in the fall 
of 1964, the first phase of which
has been completed (a report on 
Dr. Shirley Angrist’s study ap­
peared in the October 6, 1965 issue 
of the Tartan)
4. a study of the knowledge 
of the members of that class of 
methods of family planning and 
the relationship of that knowledge 
to family, class personal and re­
ligious variables.
5. a conference on dating and 
male - female relationships for 
freshmen women on October 14 and 
15, co-sponsored by the Carnegie 
Tech Y and more studies and 
conferences are in the planning 
stages.
All of this research and discus­
sion serves a double purpose. 
It helps fulfill one of the roles of 
a university — extending the fron­
tiers of knowledge. At least as im­
portant, however, is the fact that it 
also enables MMCC to improve 
its courses, curricula, and acade­
mic counseling programs.
In the process, it stimulates 
intellectual activity among faculty 
and students. Such research in 
MMCC, therefore, constantly rein­
forces the primary mission of the 
college—undergraduate education.
That is not to imply that research 
of more traditional kinds does not 
also reinforce teaching. The re­
search that members of the De­
partment of Home Economics have 
completed in the last few years, 
for example, on fabrics and on 
child development have also made 
them better teachers of their pro­
fessional courses.
This attempt to anticipate the 
roles that MMCC students will 
play when they graduate so that the 
faculty may develop curricula to 
prepare them for those roles sug­
gests the particular flavor of the 
college. MMCC strives to offer 
both liberal arts and professional 
education to each student. In keep­
ing with its original traditions, 
MMCC thus continues to offer de­
grees in business studies and home 
economics, but of course, these 
programs change over the years. 
The new business studies program 
emphasizes “functional area cour­
ses’' (i.e., personnel manage­
ment, marketing, finance, etc.) 
and has a restricted number of 
skills courses. Similarly, home 
economics has substituted courses 
in chemistry, diet and disease, 
and textile analysis for cooking 
and sewing. Home economics 
today is thus much like engineer­
ing in that it seeks to apply to 
problems of the marketplace and 
the home the knowledge of the 
science and social sciences.
Students in professional curri­
cula In MMCC, therefore, take a
good many courses in the scien­
ces, the humanities, the social 
sciences and the arts. Home 
economics students, for examfde, 
take half their courses in these 
areas.
The fact that most MMCC stu­
dents (about 70%) are candidates 
for the B.A. degree might suggest 
that the college is deserting its 
traditions of professional educa­
tion, for as short a time ago as 
1960 the college offered only the
B.S. degree. Even for B. A. can­
didates, however, MMCC seeks to 
provide professional competence. 
From a third to a half of them 
are enrolled in teacher-training 
programs. (The number varies 
from year to year.) Many of the 
rest use their electives to prepare 
for professional roles. In the De­
partment of Natural Sciences, for 
example, many students take cour­
ses to prepare them for graduate 
schools of social work. MMCC stu­
dents, incidentally, are going to 
graduate schools of all kinds in 
increasing numbers.
The program of a student who 
is preparing to teach English shows 
very clearly the nature of the lib­
eral - professional balance in the 
education of many liberal arts 
majors. In many colleges, each 
student would be an education ma­
jor and take the minimum num­
ber of courses in English ne­
cessary for certification. At 
MMCC she is an English major and 
meets the same requirements met 
by English majors not preparing 
to teach. In addition, she takes 
the necessary professional cour­
ses and practlcum to prepare her 
for teaching.
Thus, just as in liberal arts 
and sciences undergird profess­
ional curricula at MMCC, profes­
sional courses undergird the lib­
eral arts and sciences. A student 
majoring in history does not de­
stroy her status as a liberal arts 
major if she adds economics and 
political science courses to pre­
pare her position in government. 
She enhances that major, makes 
it more meaningful.
This disposition to Interrelate 
the liberal and the professional 
keeps MMCC in the same tra­
dition as the College of Fine Arts 
and the College of Engineering and 
Science. The emphasis may differ 
from curriculum to curriculum, 
but the purpose is always the same: 
to prepare broadly educated grad­
uates to function in the last third 
of the twentieth century as respon­
sible members of families, as 
responsible citizens, and as re­
sponsible professionals. The fact 
that for most of these graduates 
functioning as responsible mem­
bers of families means being wives 
and mothers adds a further compli­
cation, but it does not make the 
purpose of the MMCC curriculum 
any different essentially from the 
curricula of the other colleges.
Continued on Page 6
¡III....
Evan M. Melhado
Editor-in-Chief
Richard G. Sextro Sue Attinson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor................................................................Candy Etloin
Sports Editor.........................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor....................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor...................................................pre<j Maize
Assistant News Editor................................................. jjz Seley
Assistant Desk Editor .......................................Carol S. Guber
National Advertising Manager...........................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager....................Edward A. Ketterer
Secretarial Editor...................................................j^y Birken
Circulation Manager.................................................Marty Kline
Layout Staff: Christopher Grondahl, Louro Seidler. Morey Starn 
Business Staff: Borb Brown, Barri. Dinkins, Carol Teaman 
Circulation Staff: Debbie Andruss, Camille Ba.gon, Nancy Barron,VaUn. Watton *
Printer's Liason: J. E. Miller
Headlines: Esther Bushman, Gretchen Effler
Typists: Diane Cushing, Emily Ferber, Leslie Franca, Suzonne p9P2I 
Janet Riddla, Ruth Thompson, Christina vom Saal, Sue Wells.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 3,1965
Fairless Lecturer Calls For Intensified
Study Of Unemployment Causes
Dr. Arthur F. Burns, president of the National 
Bureau of Economic Research, Inc., yesterday called 
for intensified study of the “structural causes of un­
employment* * as the best means of combating the 
problem.
Delivering the second in this year’s series of 
Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lectures at Carnegie 
Tech on “The Problem of Unemployment,” Dr. 
Burns pointed out that even the current low unem­
ployment is uncomfortably high for a nation that aspires 
to greatness, and he added, “For that very reason, 
it is important to approach our unemployment problem 
searchingly and yet guard against exaggeration.” 
He cautioned that an unemploy­
ment rate of 5%, for example, 
does not mean that one out of 
twenty breadwinners is pacing the 
streets searching for any job that 
would enable him to feed his family.
Included in this figure, he said, 
are seasonal unemployment, 
housewives, teenagers, and pen­
sioners, who are interested in only 
part-time work, and those who have 
willingly given up their jobs to 
search for better opportunities.
•To deal with the unemployment 
problem intelligently,* he added,
•it is necessary to know what types 
of people are unemployed and how 
strenuously they may be looking 
for jobs."
Dr. Burns cited the changing 
structure of the labor force - wom­
en accounting for 65% of the growth 
in the past eight years and the com­
ing of age of the war babies sub­
stantially increasing thenumberof 
teenagers in the labor market - 
as other factors which must be con­
sidered. «In 1964,* he said, «one 
out of every six unemployed work­
er was looking for a part-time job, 
in contrast to one of thirteen a 
decade earlier.*
He called for wider dissemina­
tion of these facts, but added. »It 
would be an error of judgment to 
leap to the conclusion that un­
employment of the magnitude ex­
perienced by our nation since 1957 
is not a serious matter. Unem­
ployment contributes to crime and 
social tensions, and in recent years 
it has contributed also to racial 
strife. No matter how we qualify 
the interpretation of unemploy­
ment figures,* he continued, “they 
do not tell us that our nation has 
lately succeeded as well as it did 
during the early fifties, or during 
other periods of prosperity, in 
enabling men and women-whether 
young or old, married or single, 
rich or poor - to fulfill the normal 
desire of having a job and thus 
finding usefulness.*
He said that the risk of un­
employment is substantially high­
er for adult females, teenagers, 
and all nonwhites than for white 
adults and cautioned that these 
differentials are increasing. *The 
heavy impact of recent unemploy­
ment on teenagers, women, and 
Negroes, means of course, that
unemployment has lately become 
increasingly concentrated among 
relatively inexperienced and un­
skilled workers.*
Other indications of increased 
inequalities in the distribution of 
work can also be found, according 
to Dr. Burns in the number of 
persons * moonlighting,* and the 
average overtime hours per work­
er, which have remained constant 
or risen since the boom of 1956- 
57, when unemployment was much 
lower than today.
Dr. Burns cited government pro­
grams involving the training of 
people for available jobs, helping 
workers relocate where jobs are, 
or bringing new jobs to depressed 
areas, as a recognition of the need 
•for facilitating the mutual adjust­
ment of supply and demand in the 
labor market,* but added that, «it 
would be wise to devote much more 
attention than we are giving to these 
policies.* He added that these 
new programs depend heavily on 
the effectiveness of the federal- 
state employment service, and 
said that “measures taken to in­
vigorate this branch of the govern­
mental apparatus have not yet gone 
nearly far enough.
Modern higli-speed electronic 
computers and telecommunication 
have opened up exciting opportun­
ities that the employment service 
should by now be exploiting,* Dr. 
Burns said.
•With their aid, it should be 
possible for an unemployed person 
to walk into a local employment 
office, express his need or prefer­
ence for work, and be referred in 
a matter of hours, if not minutes, 
to a list of plausible jobs in his 
own community - or if none are 
available there - to jobs in more 
distant places.*
He added that if these and other 
government programs are to suc­
ceed, much more research and 
experimentation must be conducted 
on obtaining useful statistics on job 
vacancies. He pointed out that the 
Labor Department has asked for 
funds for such studies and ex­
pressed the hope that Congress will 
take quick steps in the matter. Dr. 
Burns decried the abuses of pro­
grams such as unemployment in­
surance by workers and industry
and said, «To the extent that these 
conditions, prevail, they cry out 
for remedy.*
Pointing to the need for a bet­
ter understanding of the minimum 
wage law, Dr. Burns cited figures 
showing a greater rise in the 
wages of unskilled labor versus 
skilled labor in many industries 
and noted that partly because of 
this many employers have found 
ways to economize through ma­
chinery, thus contributing to the 
unemployment problem. *It ap­
pears,* he continued, *that in the 
absence of any change in the gen­
eral state of the economy, another 
increase of twenty-five cents in 
the minimum wage would be likely 
to raise the unemployment rate 
of nonwhite teenagers by as much 
as 8 percentage points.* Dr. Burns 
said that the minimum hourly wage 
does not assure a minimum in­
come for every family. *It helps 
some of the poor and harms others 
-- often those who need help most,* 
he said.
Political commitment and senti­
mental attachment to the minimum 
wage, according to Dr. Burns, must 
not obstruct young people's 
chances of getting a job. As a 
last resort, he suggested lowering 
the minimum for the next two or 
three years for the increasing 
number of teenagers. *A lower 
minimum,* said Dr. Burns, “would 
not only provide more jobs for 
young people, but would also give 
employers more incentive to train 
them.*
‘Balanced’ Education
Continued from Page 5
In fulfilling its function, MMCC 
has an advantage not available to 
many women’s colleges two and 
three times its sizej as one of 
three undergraduate colleges on a 
university campus it can call on 
the facilities of other colleges. 
Thus MMCC students study with 
faculty in arts, humanities, scien­
ces and social sciences of a cali­
ber usually not available in wom­
en’s colleges, liberal arts col­
leges or professional colleges with 
as many as a thousand or more 
students.
Perhaps the word balance best 
describes MMCC, the programs 
available to its students, and its 
non - teaching functions: balance 
between liberal and professional 
courses, between a small college 
and a university, between educa­
tion for women and coeducation, 
between teaching and research, 
between research and develop­
ment. Maintaining that balance 
as the world changes and, there­
fore, as the roles of MMCC grad­
uates change will continue to con­
cern MMCC faculty and the facul­
ty of other colleges and divisions 
who teach MMCC courses and help 
to plan its curricula.
1966
RESEARCH-ORIENTED GRADUATE STUDENTS
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, invites you 
to talk with an Inland representative while we are on the campus 
on Friday, November 12th. Expansion of our Research activities 
has created new positions in various areas of steel research. For 
an appointment, contact Mr. Charles E. Wangeman.
nuit STEEL Cl H Pill
“!A“e!e -eK»€- l€dB
EAST CHICAGO. INDIANA
This Week In Pittsburgh
o. pSP 391yi M.i i I ............... ¦¦"«J
Lectures
«‘Is Science Objective?'’ Israel Sheffler, Professor of education and phi­
losophy, Harvard University. Clapp Hall, University of Pittsburgh. To­
night at 8:15 p.m.
?“China of the Trade (so-called Lowestaft)”. Louise Langalier, Cleve­
land. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Today at 11 a.m.
Exhibits
«‘The Seashore in Paintings of the 19th and 20th Centuries." Carnegie 
Institute Museum of Art. Tliird floor, galleries 1 - h.
««The Printed Book in the XV and XVI Centuries." University of Pitts­
burgh, 12 noon to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, 1 to 5 p.m. Satur­
day, 2 to 5 p.m. Sunday.
“Lowestoft: Chinese Export Porcelain." Carnegie Institute Museum of 
Art. Treasure Room.
Drama
?Marcel Marceau, pantomimist. Syria Mosque. Tonight at 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets at Pitt Book Center.
?American Conservatory Theatre. “The Devil's Disciple,” November 3,
4, (matinee) 6. “Death of a Salesman,” November 3, 4, 6. “Tiny 
Alice,” November 5, 9. “Tartuffe” November 4, 7.
"Apollo of Bellac" and ««Antigone," November 5, 9. ««Six Charac­
ters in Search of an Author," November 7. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
Craft Avenue at Hamlet St. Student tickets available for all perfor­
mances. ««Once Upon a Mattress," Chatham College Department 
of Drama.
Advance tickets necessary. Chapel. November 4 to 6, 8:30 p.m. 
?“Volpone” by Ben Johnson. Pitt Players. Stephen Foster Memo­
rial. Tickets at the door. November 3 to 6, 8:30 p.m.
Music
?Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. Syria Mosque. Eugene Istomin, pia­
nist. November 6 at 8:40 p.m. November 8 at 3:10 p.m.
?Budapest Children’s Choir. Carnegie Music Hall. Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Sports
?Football. Tech vs. Westminster, Tech Field. November 6 at 1:30 p.m.
?Football. Pitt vs. Notre Dame. Pitt Stadium. November 6 at 1:30 p.m.
* eEv2662uP bcrmMSE
1. Talking to yourself?2. Angela’s idea?
Rehearsing a speech. 
I’m running for 
President of the 
Student Council.
She says it will help 
me develop a sense 
of responsibility.
3. What’s your platform?
Do I need one?
4. You have to give people a 
reason for voting for you.
How about “A chicken 
in every pot”?
5. Already been used.
“Tippecanoe and 
Tyler too”?
6. Look, if you want to show 
Angela you’re responsible, 
why not sign up for Living 
Insurance from Equitable.
It’s one of the most 
responsible things you can 
do—because Living Insurance 
will give your wife and kids 
solid protection.
“I would rather be 
right than President.” 
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: Patrick Scollard, Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N. V. 10019 £ Equitable 1965
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
1965 Greek Week Includes 
Meeting, Parties, Dance
o. b2PE. Bum6S
Greek Week will be held November 8 to 13 to “give 
fraternities and sororities the opportunity to stren­
gthen cooperation and understanding between their two 
systems.”
A joint meeting between the Panhellenic Council 
and the Council of Fraternity Presidents on November 
8 will begin a series of meetings between the Greeks 
held throughout the week.
On November 9 Greek treasur­
ers will meet at ATO, house man­
agers at DU, alumni secretaries 
at BTP, and rush chairmen at 
SAE. November 10 all social chair­
men will meet at BSR, pledge train­
ers as KS, scholarship chairmen at 
TX, and stewards at SN. All presi­
dents will meet at BTP on Novem­
ber 11.
A casual Skibo dance will be held 
on November 12 from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. It will feature the American 
Beetles, a group from Miami,
Florida, who have a singing style 
similar to the English Beatles.
There are three electric guitarists 
and one drummer. The American 
Beetles have toured the world and 
performed in 49 states.
Fraternities will sponsor joint 
combo house parties November 
13. Sigma Nu and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon will be at DTD; Kappa Sig­
ma and Beta Sigma Rho will be at
What’s Doing On Campus?
o. 52Pr tP1mSLL¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡
5cS evSm2irP »SS1LS6
PKA; and Alpha Tau Omega and 
Theta Xi will be at TDP, and Delta 
Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi will be 
at PKT.
Mary Volpe and Marion Bauman 
are in charge of Greek Week. For 
further information contact Bau­
man at 682-6505.
Students Wanted For Projects
Today
9 to 5 p.m. Drawings by Mark 
Tobey, Hewlett Gallery, through 
November 5.
12:30 p.m. Mass, Sklbo, Sldbo room 
31.
1 to 4 p.m. Women’s Club, Sldbo, 
Wherrett and Highlander Rooms.
3 to 4 p,m. Hill el Meeting, Rabbi
Rubenstein, Lounge, YMHA.
3:30 to 10:30 p.m. Volunteers 
needed for Brushton Inner City 
Project (anti-poverty) call BICP 
Office for information: 731-2811«
3:45 p.m. “A Course in Engineer­
ing Concepts/’ Dr. Edward 
David, Jr., Scaife Hall. Coffee 
served in lobby. GSIA students 
and facility.
4:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39.
4:30 p.m. Campus Chest, Skibo, 
Wherrett Room. Speakers from 
the World University Service 
and the National Scholarship 
Service for Negro Students.
5 to 8 p.m. Sorority Meetings, 
Skibo, room 39-46.
6:15 to 8:30 p.m. Speed read­
ing, Skibo, room 56.
8 p.m. Flying Club, Sklbo, room 
I 40.
8 p.m. Tech Dames, Sklbo, room 
55.
8 p.m. Oratory, Skibo, Highlan­
der Room.
Thursday
11:30 a.m. “The Psychology and 
Structure of Worship," Skibo 
Room 55.
11:30 a.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39.
H 12:30 p.m. Unity Prayer, Skibo, 
room 39.
12;30 to 1:30 p.m. Tech Christian 
Fellowship, Skibo, room 40.
4:30, 7 to 9:30 p.m. Film Arts, 
“Rififi,” Porter Hall 100.
4:30 p.m. Pipe Corps, Skibo, room 
200.
5:45 to 7 p.m. KKG Meeting, Ski­
bo room 39.
6:15 to 8:30 p.m. Speed Reading, 
H Skibo, room 56.
7 to 9 p.m, APHIO Meeting, 
Skibo room 40.
7:30 p.m. “Link** Meeting, room
54 Skibo.
8 to 11 p.m. CIT Folk Dance 
Club, Sldbo, Wherrett Room.
Friday
11:30 a.m. Oratory, Skibo, room 
54.
fc 12:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39.
3:00 p,m. GSIA faculty and stu­
dents, “A Process Model of 
Budgeting In a Public Organi­
zation,*' room 225.
4:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39.
5 p.m. Principice College, Rob­
ert E. Blackwell, Skibo Ball­
room.
6 p.m. MIT Club, Sldbo, Highlan­
der Room.
6:30 p.m. Tech Christian Fel­
lowship, Sldbo, room 39.
7:30 and 10 p.m. “A Place In 
The Sun,*' Porter Hall, 100. 
YMCA - YWCA members $.25, 
non-members $.50.
9 p.m. Ceiliah, Sldbo, Wherrett 
Room.
Saturday
9 to 11 a«m. Speed reading, Ski­
bo room 56.
9:30 to noon Horn Club, Skibo, 
room 55.
10 a«m. to 2 p.m. Folk Institute, 
Skibo Ballroom.
2 to 5 p,m. Reception for West­
minster College, Sklbo, Wher­
rett Room.
3 to 9 p.m. Westminster College 
Alumni Dinner, Sldbo High­
lander room.
6 p.m. Dinner, Pittsburgh Visual 
Communications, Skibo; Ball­
room, faculty lounge, and lob­
by.
With suitable skiing conditions, 
ski trip to Seven Springs. $7, 
$8, $10, $11 prices; bus leaves 
Skibo at 7 a.m. and returns by 6 
p.m., For further information 
contact Tuck Arnold: 421-6908.
Sunday
9 a.m. and noon Mass, Scaife Hall, 
Auditorium.
12:30 to 2 p.m. Sorority Rush, 
Skibo Ballroom and Wherrett 
Room.
7:30 p.m. Chess Club, Sklbo, room 
46.
8 to 11 p.m. Folk Dancing, Sldbo, 
Ballroom.
Monday
11:30 a.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39. 
12:30 p,m. Unity Prayer, Skibo 
room 39.
7:30 p.m. Flying Club, Sldbo, room 
40.
Tuesday
11:30 to 12:30 p.m. Assembly, 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
12:30 to 1:30 Tech Christian Fel­
lowship, Sldbo, room 40.
4:30 p.m. Fairless Lecture, 
“Some Pathways to Stable Pros­
perity*', Dr. Arthur F. Burns, 
Skibo, Ballroom.
4:30 p.m. Christian Science Or-
Ski'ClubStarts
Activities
The Ski Club will sponsor a ski 
week from November 15 through 
November 19.
Ski films will be shown in the 
Wherrett Room everyday from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. The films 
will emphasize how to ski and types 
of skiing.
On November 17 the Ski Club will 
hold its first meeting. A ski film 
will be shown at 7 p.m.
Information concerning mem­
bership in the Ski Club may be ob­
tained during ski week in the Wher­
rett lounge.
Freshmen women who will not be 
able to attend the Wednesday night 
meeting can pick up information 
cards during other ski week ac­
tivities. They may return ski club 
information cards to Pamela Mer­
rill 5C6, Jocelin Heye 725E, or 
Linda Gursha 5B7.
The first Saturday that weather 
conditions are favorable, the club 
will sponsor a ski trip to Seven 
Springs. A bus will leave Skibo 
at 7 a.m. and return by 6 p.m. The 
trip, open to all Carnegie Tech 
students, will cost $7, $8, $10, 
or $11, depending upon the ski 
package selected. Further in­
formation may be obtained from 
Tuck Arnold, 421-6908.
ganization, Sldbo, room 39.
6:15 to 8:30 Speed reading, Ski­
bo room 56.
7 to 8:30 p.m. Guitar, Skibo, rooms 
55 and 40.
7 to 10 p.m. History Club, Skibo, 
Highlander Room.
7 to 12 p.m. Music Department 
Brass Choir, Sldbo Ballroom.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Explorer's Club, 
Skibo room 54.
8 to 11 p.m. CIT Folk Dance 
Club, Sldbo Wherrett Room.
PITTSBURGH PLATE GLASS COMPANY 
CHEMICAL DIVISION
INTERVIEW DATE:
Monday, November 8, 196S
Opportunities available in West Virginia, 
Ohio, Louisiana, Teias, Calilornia, 
Georgia and Canada.
Heavy chemical producer, emphasis in 
captive uses. Consistant, strong Re­
search and Development effort. 
Divisional sales in excess of 
$230,000,000.00.
M. S. Degree 
Chemical Engineers—Production, De­
velopment <• Power Depts.
M. S. or Ph.D. Degree 
Chemists—Research in (Organic. Inor­
ganic, Physical and Analytical). 
Industrial Administration—M. S. Degree 
for Personnel Work.
i WHAT'S 
1 REALLY WRONG | 
ON CAMPUS
P The only thing not changed on 1 
If campus since the war is human 
H nature. Competition for admission ii 
|| is fiercer; undergraduate temper 
more excitable. This special 
Atlantic Supplement discusses | 
students in revolt; the fate of I 
I the small college; academic 
freedom; why some students 4.
I take drugs — why others drop ||
: out; problems of college for
Negroes; do women learn any- ¡¡§
II thing; faculty pressures and
II privileges; free speech and if 
i much, much more.
Students interested in an ex­
perience in Community Involve­
ment are invited to sign up for a 
weekend in South Oakland and the 
HU1 District November 12 to 14 
sponsored by the Campus YMCA 
and YWCA, and the Middle At­
lantic Region of the student Y*s.
The group will spend Friday 
night at a community center in 
Oakland getting oriented to the 
community and the projects to be 
pursued on Saturday.
Projects will include work with 
VISTA volunteers (Domestic Peace 
Corps) and ‘underpriviledged* 
youth, and painting and light re­
pair in homes or community cen­
ters.
After evaluation on Saturday 
evening, members of the work 
camp will disperse for overnight 
home stays with a number of high 
school students who have worked 
throughout the weekend on the pro­
jects.
The weekend will cost $5 to cov­
er food and other expenses. Par­
ticipating students should bring a 
bedroll.
For YWCA members, the cost 
of the weekend will be fully cov­
ered by their fund.
Although full attendance is en­
couraged, students may participate 
for a part of the weekend. Regis­
tration must be completed by No­
vember 8.
Large enough to hold your future, small enough to know you.
ENGINEERS: American Air Filter Company, 
Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest 
manufacturer of air filters, dust control, heat­
ing, ventilating and air conditioning equipment. 
Yet AAF is small enough for you to know well.
AAF needs graduate engineers to fill respon­
sible jobs in sales, product engineering, re­
search and industrial engineering. Eventual 
location might be in any jj AAF’s six plant 
cities or one of the more 150 sales offices 
throughout the U. S.
Men who join AAF will be given training 
which is designed to fulfill their early career 
needs. This may be on-the-job training or formal 
classroom experience, as the job assignment 
dictates. Interested^ Seniors should make an 
appointment now through the Placement Office. 
An AAF representative will visit the campus on
November 9,1965
um2 1.596 -SS-LE52PEr 1iS6-r1Lc
^^merican [literMfCOMPANY. INC.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
é^xciuóíve at ìf^obertò
DIAMOND RINGS
A“e!e . . . . . PRICE $275
A diamond solataire engagement ring, etherial in design, 
named for a Greek Goddess. In 18 kt. White Geld, die 
struck mounting. World's finest diamonds to fit your 
budget.
Terms arranged
JOHN M.ROBF.KI'S* SON (•
Pittsburgh—429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 3, 1965
!rE6 5uJ e5€ 
NWChN “P “4B4 
bcrvJ2uP6c2J
o. bcrmLS6 »SrmE
AuP HcuiFS. vrFS6 ”2m61 EuRP 
rMr2P61 e5€4
The Grad Nads, led by flashy 
all-school end Don shockey, pulled 
come-from-behind victories over 
SAE in the semifinals and ATO in 
the final of the intramural foot­
ball playoffs last week to claim the 
school championship.
In the exciting championship 
game the Nads won a seesaw af­
fair from ATO, 30 to 23.
ATO scored first when quarter­
back Bud Higgenbotham ran around 
end from the twelve for a TD. The 
Grads, aided by an interference 
call at the ATO twenty, tied it up 
as quarterback Bill Kraynek com­
pleted a pass to Shockey in the end 
zone. But ATO’s P. J. Grieco took 
the kickoff and ran all the way for 
a touchdown, just as the whistle 
blew ending the first quarter with 
ATO in the lead 12-6.
The second quarter featured 
numerous ball exchanges, with the 
only score being a first down by the 
Grad Nads.
At the half ATO was still in the lead, 
12-7.
The Nads chose to receive the 
kickoff to open the second half. 
Three plays later Kraynek threv, 
a long bomb to Shockey, who elud­
ed the secondary and went in for 
the score. On the first play after 
the ensuing kickoff ATO’s Hig­
genbotham flipped the ball to half­
back Schliep, who lofted a pass to 
center Dave Chittim in the end 
zone.
Kraynek lobbed a one-yard TD 
pass to Balzer to cap a long drive 
by the Grads, but ATO scored 
again on a 10-yard pass to Hagar- 
man to maintain a 23-20 lead after 
three quarters.
The final quarter opened with the 
Nads on ATO's twenty. They moved 
to the one but a stout ATO de­
fense held and they punted out of 
danger.
In the waning minutes, ATO's 
Greco intercepted his second pass 
of the day and returned it to the
d€Ge3Hp0 H5$A“€
CUSTOM FRAMING 
FINE PORTRAIT 
PHOTOGRAPHY
»LriF © lc21S um 32a2PM buLum
5813 Forbes Av*.
Squirrel Hill 
Phone 421-8044
C-Country Streak Ends; 
Tartans Lose 2 Meets
Carnegie Tech’s 42-game unbeaten streak in cross 
country went by the boards last Wednesday at Waynes- 
burg when the Yellowjackets, sparked by three power­
ful freshmen, beat the Tartans 23 to 33. Then on Sat­
urday Westminster gave the Tartans a losing streak 
by nosing them out 26 - 29 in a fast, furious meet in 
which only 1:28 separated the first ten finishers.
Nearly a thousand spectators,
the Waynesburg band, the cheer­
leaders, faculty members, and the 
president of the college turned 
out to see Tech's streak broken 
on Wednesday. Along the part of 
the course that runs through town, 
local fraternities hung signs ur­
ging the home crew to “Trample 
Tech”.
Doug Krause, the Pennsylvania 
high school Class “B" cross­
country champion last year, won 
the race in 21:49, followed closely 
by teammate Pete Busti in 21:56, 
Tech star Harry Burkholder, 
22:06, and Waynesburg’s Ron 
Wright, who came on strong at the 
end to finish in 22:08, ahead of 
Tech’s Chris Macosko, who clock­
ed 22:18.
The rest of the scorers were 
Roger Cairns (CT) 22:51, Pete 
Meekins (W) 22:55, Eric Levine 
(CT) 23:10, Dom Oliver! (W) 
23:12, Art Johnson (W) 23:32, and 
Kem Phillips (CT) 24:04.
Record Falls
At Westminster the Titans’ 
Glenn Dawson and Macosko both 
easily broke the course record of 
24:12. TTie meet was decided when 
Eric Burns took fifth for West­
minster, one-half second ahead of 
Tech's Levine and one second 
ahead of Cairns. Burns, urged on 
by 400 screaming fans, tore down 
the final hill of the course, caught 
the Tech men 25 yards from the 
finish, and came across two steps
in front of them.
The times: Dawson (W) 23:50, 
Macosko (CT) 24:00, Burkholder 
(CT) 24:28, Craxton (W) 24:34, 
Tom Gregory (W) 24:38, Burns, 
(W) 24:53, Levine (CT) 24:53:5, 
Cairns (CT) 24:54, Phillips (CT) 
25:05, JohnCantompasis(W)25:32.
Chris Macosko, commenting on 
the last two meets, expressed 
amazement at the way opposing 
schools were “up” for the Tar­
tans, aiming for them “as if we 
were the New York Yankees''; 
and at the enthusiasm of the fans 
at away meets.
Big Meet Nov. 13
This past week’s results point 
to the Tech Invitational Meet at 
Schenley Park on Saturday, No­
vember 13 as literally the Penn­
sylvania small - college cross­
country championship. Westmin­
ster and Waynesburg will both be 
there. Gannon, Duquesne, St. 
Francis, and St. Vincent have also 
accepted invitations.
The course record could well be 
broken, perhaps by several run­
ners. Tech coach Carl Olson sees 
a big five - man battle between 
Tech's Burkholder and Macosko, 
Westminster's Dawson, and 
Waynesburg's Krause and Busti.
This week the Tartans, now UC 
2-1, finish the regular season at 
home, racing St. Vincent today at 
4:30 p.m. and Gannon this Satur­
day at 11:30 a.m.
Nads' fifteen. The Taus got down 
to the one yard line, but middle 
guard Balzer picked off a short 
pass to end ATO's offensive threats 
and demoralize ATO.
The Nads moved out to mid­
field, notching a first down to take 
a 24-23 lead. They then scored the 
clinching TD on a unique play. Right 
end Ed Kramer swung around be­
hind Kraynek and took a handoff. 
ATO's secondary pulled up, an­
ticipating a run, but Kramer stop­
ped and unloaded a long pass to 
Shockey who was standing all alone 
downfield.
On the kickoff, Shockey topped 
the ball and the Nads covered it and 
ran out the clock. The final score 
showed the Nads on top, 30-23.
Playoff Records
To reach the final against ATO, 
the Nads crushed the E.J.'s 44-8 
in first round play and squeezed 
out a 21-20 win over SAE. SAE 
led the Nads 20-7 with five min­
utes left in the game, but the Grads 
rallied and quarterback Bill Kray­
nek hit Shockey for the clinching 
TD with 40 seconds to play.
ATO made the finals by beating 
GSIA *F* and BTP. They spotted 
GSIA *F* two quick touchdowns, 
but rolled on to a 37 - 23 win. 
Against BTP, which had eliminated 
defending champs GSIA *D* 9-8, 
ATO won a bruising 17-11 ver­
dict.
In the consolation game last 
Thursday, Beta Theta Pi beat SAE 
23-17 in the snow and cold to take 
third place in the tournament.
LEWIS
SaleS’Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211 
115 OAKLAND AVE
¥
?
?
?
?
*
?
*
«
?
?
¥
A SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
5cS 5R2P buricS6 R2LL cuPum brmPSM2S 5Sic “ESP12”2ir12uP 
irmE6 BuPEr. 1cm9 ’m2Er.I !ua4 KOCK"I ”um 1cS !rPi. evS6 
HcuR4 H1rm u” 54n/6 xx5cr1 Rr6 1cS RSSF 1cr1 Rr6xx rPE 1cS 
sSmm. buvu HJSi2rL4 !u buaSmQ !u B2P2v9v 1u 1cS oSrmSm u” 
1cS6S brmE6 rPE .u9m M9S614 s4H4 AuPz1 ’umMS1 .u9m “4A4 brmEI 
u1cSmR26S 1cSmS 26 r Th4WW iuaSm icrmMS JSm JSm6uP4
TWIN COACHESd54 OK 
H€$5-
?
*
¥
?
?
¥
?
*
¥
?
*
?
?
*
Denison Runs For 490 Yds. 
In 43—13 Romp Over Tech
o. 3rmm. H2FuP
The big Red of Denison took a while to get start­
ed at Deeds Field last Saturday but once they did they 
rolled up an amazing 490 yards rushing and walloped 
Carnegie Tech’s Tartans 43 to 13.
Denison's workhorse, sopho­
more fullback Eric Ivary, steam­
rollered for 108 yards in 20 car­
ries and halfback Ned Martin pick­
ed up 115 in only seven runs as 
the Tartans couldn’t cope with the 
Big Red power sweeps and pitch- 
outs.
Tech Takes 13-0 Lead
For the third time this year, 
the Tartans took an early two- 
touchdown lead only to come out 
finally on the short end of the score.
Carnegie Tech found itself in 
scoring position early in the game 
when Big Red quarterback Dain 
Birkley fumbled the ball on his own 
27 on the first series of plays, 
and Bill Patula recovered for the 
Tartans. Tom Hubka and Larry 
Getto ran for gains of 7 and 5 
yard repsectively to give the Tar­
tans a first and ten onthe Denison 
15-yard line. On fourth down and 
six, Hubka found Dick Bell in th< 
end zone and tossed him an 11 - 
yard aerial for the touchdown.
Fred Brown added the point af­
ter, and the Tartans led 7 - 0.
The Tartans scored quickly 
again when Patula recovered ano­
ther Birkley fumble, this time on 
the Denison 23. Hubka fired a 
pass to Bill Coleman on the 6 - 
yard line. Getto then moved the 
ball to the 3 and Dick Merrill 
plowed through the Denison line 
for the final three yards and the 
score. Brown’s kick was block­
ed by Dave Osborn, and the Tar­
tans led 13-0.
Denison Rolls
Then Denison turned the power 
on. They marched with the kick- 
off to the Tech 41, from where 
155 - pound John Klmpel scam­
pered all the way for a TD. Ivary 
scored from the nine and the six to 
cap two second - quarter drives, 
and the Big Red led 20-13 at half 
time.
Denison put the victory on ice by 
adding 3 more touchdowns in the 
second half. Tech experimented 
with the shotgun offense, as Tom 
Hubka attempted 41 passes over 
all. Hubka led the Tartan ground 
attack by picking up 43 yards, 
and passed for 138 more yards.
The Tartans are now 1 and 5 
while the Big Red are 4 and 2 
and are in third place in the 15- 
team C»iio Conference.
The Tartans will meet with 
Westminster this Saturday at 1:30 
at Tech Field.
Score by quarter:
Carnegie 13 0 0 0 — 13
Denison 6 14 7 16 — 43
ASP26uPz6 ASPP. sm2iS muLL6 2
.rmE6 ”um r ,1cC'9rm1Sm 1u9icEuRP4
Scoring:
Tech-Hubka to Bell, 11 (Brown, 
kick).
Tech-Merrill, 3 (kick blockedX
Denison, Klmpel, 41 (kick blockedX
Denison-Ivary, 9 (Birkley, runX
Denison - Ivary, 6 (kick wide).
Denison - Martin, 52 (Poetter, 
kick).
Denison - Price, 2 (Jewell to Os- 
bornX
Denison - Klmpel, 21 (Jewell, runX
Statistics: 
Carnegie TechDenison
17first downs25
112yards gain. rush.533
43yards lost rush.43
69net gain rushing490
10-41passes3-6
138yards gained pass.43
69total offensive {days66
207total yards gained533
60yards penalized86
0fumbles6
0fumbles lost5
0interceptions by2
8/36.5punts/average 2/38.5
TYPING
emFo • deevCvdno 
a tdmF“nmlsd a
5Smv srJSm6 8 5cS6S6 8 A26f
6Sm1r12uP6 8 s9Pi19r12uP6 8 
HJSLL2PM 8 Gmrvvrm bummSi1SE4
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
t1Si1m2i 5.JSRm21Sm6 $6SE 
t&iL96 2aSL.
Weinstein's Kennilworth Restaurant 
G€tHAu GO-GO
FEATURING
the American Beetles
H2& P2Mc16 r RSSF
!u buaSm dSZ—UIr-KYk6zg#k,,K8K,;N
OUWW bSP1mS eaS4
