fflxt Carnegie ífTartau
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1932
Waldemar Kaempffert 
Will Address Student 
Body At 11:30 Today
Science Editor To Talk 
On Social Aspects 
Of Engineering
DELTA SKULL WILL 
SPONSOR ASSEMBLY
Edward II. Johe Presents 
Bruckner, Guilmant 
Organ Selections
By DUDLEY PENDLETON
Waldemar Bernhard Kaempffert, 
;; science editor of the New York 
Times, will talk before the stu­
dents at the assembly to be held 
today at 11:30 in the Little Thea­
ter. He will talk on the social and 
• cultural aspects of engineering and' 
invention.
Mr. Kaempffert stresses the im- 
. portance of a cultural background in the technical age. In a letter to 
Dr. Baker he says, “If this cultural . aspect of technology is accepted, as it is by most • economists and sociologists, then the engineer has not yet awakened to his real re­sponsibilities. We teach the tech­nical methods of science, engineei’- ing, and invention, but we do not 
say much about their cultural as­pects, except by way of pointing out a lesson in economics, or adorning a sociological tale.”The assembly will be sponsored by Delta Skull, the junior honor­ary, and will be in charge of Josef Lentz, president of the Student Council. Special seats will be re­served for faculty members and members of the campus lionor- 
aries. Fraternities are urged to make their rushing dates include the assembly.
Edward H. Johe, a senior in the Department of Music, will play or­gan selections which will include Preludes—“Prailudium,” by Bruck­ner, “Prelude, Theme and Varia­tions” by Guilmant, and Postlude— “Grand Choeur” by Guilmant.Graduated from Columbia Uni­
versity in 1897, Mr. Kaempffert was ' awarded his degree of Bachelor of Law seven years later at New York University. During these seven years lie was assistant editor of the Scientific American and 
studied law, being admitted to the New York Bar Association in 1903. Later he was editor of Popular Science Monthly for five years. Besides being an editor, Mr. Kaempffert was for three years •director of the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. He is :the author of several books and has made a number of translations. 
His writings include a history of astronomy and a book on aviation 
•entitled, "The New Art of Flying,” as well as numerous magazine ar­ticles.Dr. Baker will entertain Mr. Kaempffert with a dinner at the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
M. M. Girls Plan 
Christmas Party
The Christmas party sponsored 
each year by the Department of 
Social Work, for a number of the 
settlement houses of Pittsburgh 
will be held Tuesday, December 
13, from 7:30 to 9:30 in the Rec­
reation Hall of Margaret Morrison.
The party is planned as a com­
bined Christmas and Olympic cele­
bration, and the children of the 
Kingsley House, the Brashear Set­
tlement, the Munliall Settlement, 
the D. T. Watson Home for Crip­
pled Children, and the Juvenile De­
tention Home will masquerade in 
the costumes of athletes of dif­
ferent nations. About one . hun­
dred and fifty children will attend 
the party, and invitations have been extended to Dr. Baker, Dean 
Green, Dr. Watkins, and other members of the faculty.
The students in the Social Work Department who are in charge of •the plans are Jean Ritzel ’34, gen­eral chairman; Martha Robinson ’34, programs; Dorothy Miller ’34, decoration; Alice Dublin ’34, re­
freshments; Helen Charters '34, invitations; and Adeline Miller '34, finance.
Inventor Completes 
Bickley Bean Sorter
Everett H. Bickley ’10, Mechan­ical Engineering, is the inventor of the recently completed 30 unit Bickley Béan Sortfer.This machine has a capacity of seven to ten tons per 24 hours. It consumes 600 watts to do this work and one operator can look after a battery of these machines. 
The beans are fed into the top, ' and delivered sorted on each side. All the sorting is done by com­pressed air controlled electrically, and the control is very sensitive. Differences so slight in color as to be imperceptible to the human eye are sufficient to cause the machine \ either pass or reject according 'he setting of the control knob.
—CHAR LE SH .DHRNR 
GW OTMRNHKRO IN BMNN
Tomorrow afternoon the 
Cwens will be the guests of the 
Pitt Cwens at a tea dance from 
5 to 8 o’clock in the Heinz 
House.
Dean Green and the Cwens 
gave a tea to the transfer stu­
dents and their “twin sisters” 
last Saturday afternoon in the 
Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall. Cwens, women’s nation­
al sophomore honorary, planned 
the tea in order to enable the 
girls who transferred to become 
better acquainted with each 
other and with their “twin sis­
ters.”
Jean N. Ritzel ’34, a former 
Cwen, made a leather-bound 
scrapbook containing newspa­
per articles and clippings about 
the Cwens. Julia Hubbard has 
charge of the book this year.
Thistle Will 
Appear With 
New Features
Photographs Of Major 
Social Events Will 
Be Included
Plans have been completed for the 
1933 Thistle Carnegie Year Book, 
which will appear on the cam­
pus May 1. The staff has arranged 
for a novel and modernistic This­
tle, which will offer a simple, straigliforward presentation of the year at Carnegie. Edward M. Rhodes ’34 is the editor of Thistle, which the junior class publishes each year.
Several significant revisions and additions have been made in the 
new year book. Photographs will be included of such major events as Arts Ball, Carnegie Day, Campus Week, Freshman Parade, and Sweep­stakes. Incidents of fraternity and dormitory life will be featur­ed. The introduction will contain several snapshots of laboratory classes in session.In the fraternity section, Thistle will present composite pictures in­stead of the former group pictures. However, there will be many group photographs, which will be taken again this year in the Carnegie Union. Arrangements, for these may be made with Regis Joyce of the Department of Drama, who is photographic editor of Thistle.Before Christmas vacation, col­ored views of the campus will be given to students in order to in­crease their interest in Thistle’s photographic work. The price of Thistle will be the same as last year, with the 50c rebate to those 
who place their order before Christmas.
Music Students Will 
Sing For Pantomime
The choir of Carnegie music stu­dents will sing Italian chants of the thirteenth to fifteenth cen­
turies at a pantomime to be given Friday evening at eight o’clock, in the auditorium of the Frick Train­ing School. The pantomime will be carried out in colorful costumes and will be patterned after Giotto’s paintings of the nativity and of preceding events.
Tickets, priced at $1.00, may be secured from Miss Demarest, Room 223, College of Fine Arts, or may be ordered through Miss Donohoe, Room 100, College of Fine Arts. Proceeds of the affair will be used for the furnishing of the Italian Room in the Cathedral of Learning.
Dedication Of Mural 
Held Friday Afternoon
Charles Le Moyn6 Dietz’s paint­
ing, “The Charwoman’s Dream," 
was unveiled Friday at 4:30 in the 
Women’s Club Room of the gym­
nasium, with Dean Green and Mar­
garet Siebert ’33, president of Mor­
tar Board, officiating. The pro­
gram opened with a song and a 
violin solo, followed by the dedi­
cation of the mural. Among those 
present were Mrs. David S. Reed, 
wife of Senator Reed. Mr. Dietz 
is a junior in the Painting and Decorating Department of the Col­lege of Fine Arts. His painting won first prize in a student compe­tition last spring sponsored by Professor Alexander J. Kostellow, Associate Professor of the. Paint­ing and Decorating Department.
Noted Lawyer 
Debates On 
Immortality
Clarence Darrow And 
Musmanno Argue 
Religious Views
AGNOSTIC ASSERTS 
DEATH ENDS ALL
Christmas Charities Given 
Net Proceeds From 
Religious Debate
Two criminal lawyers, Clarence 
Darrow of Chicago and Judge M. A. Musmanno of the Allegheny 
County Court, will debate at Car­negie Music Hall '•next Monday evening. The wording of the ques­tion is: “Does Man Live Again?”Being America’s foremost agnos­tic, Mr. Darrow will take the neg­ative, and asserts that he believes 
he can produce positive proof that death ends all.Judge Musmanno, agreeing with his opponent on capital punish­ment, crime treatment and other subjects, nevertheless thoroughly disagrees with him on religious matters. He will uphold the affir­mative of the immortality ques­
tion.Not since the great ovation ac­corded him nearly two years ago has Mr. Darrow addressed a Pitts­burgh audience. Since that time lie has written his autobiography, defended Lieut. Thomas IT. Massie and associates in Honolulu, and otherwise busied himself. At 75, 
he appears as active mentally and physically as he was in his earlier 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Bacchanalians 
Produce Skit In 
Spring Carnival
Following the tradition set aud 
immortalized by the late Florenz 
Ziegfeld, The Bacchanalians have 
decided to create a special number 
for the next Spring- Carnival Musi­
cal Revue—now in preparation— 
called, “Glorifying the Maggie 
Murph.” This number will be per­
formed by Margaret Morrison girls exclusively and promises to be one of the highlights of the show. At a meeting held on Sunday even­ing, December 4, the preliminary 
steps to organize this detail of the production were started and the directors expect to put the number into rehearsal after the Christmas holidays.Student composers and lyricists have submitted several songs, 
which are now under considera­tion. There are many more num­bers needed, and students who are interested are requested to leave their material or their ideas for material with M,iss Donahoe in the office of the Fine Arts College.William Beal ¿34 and Herman Liveright, special student in the Department of Drama, members of 
the executive committee for The Bacchanalians, are very much pleased with the progress made thus far. The dancing director, 
William Bales ’34, intends to stan his preliminary training of the chorus within a few weeks. Sev­eral designers have been given 
competitive assignments for set­tings. The directors plan to have several sketches under way im­mediately after the vacation.
Award Given Junior 
For Highest Rating
James D. Campbell, highest rank­ing junior in the Department of Electrical Engineering, has been chosen to be the recipient of an award made annually by Eta Kap­pa Nu, electrical engineering hon­orary fraternity, and the Carnegie Student Branch of The American Institute of Electrical Engineers.The award, which is a “Standard 
Handbook for Electrical Engi­neers,” was to have been made at the Carnegie Day exercises, but since a new edition of the hand­book will be published and on the 
market by January, the date of the presentation lias been postponed.
This award is made primarily on the basis of scholarship, although 
integrity, unselfish activity and adaptability are taken into consid­eration when the selection is made.
Sophomores Entertain 
M. M. C. C. Freshmen
The sophomore class of Mar­garet Morrison will entertain the freshmen at n. Salamagundl party 
to be held in Recreation Hall on Wednesday afternoon, December 7, from 3:30 until G. This is the first party of the year which any upperclassmen have given to the freshmen. General chairman for the affair is Nancy McQuade, the social chairman of the sophomore class. The members of the enter­tainment committee are: Daisy V. Clarke, chairman: Elizabeth B.
Galata, and Ruth H. Schmelz. The refreshment committee consists of: Gwen Haddock, chairman;Rita M. Pearsall, Catherine M. Conti, Mary G. Kreh, Catherine E. Moran, and Lois E. Conley.
Fraternities Begin Annual 
Frosh Rushing Campaign
Interfraternity Council Introduces Revised Rules; 
Inauguration Of Contacting Period Prevents
Past InefficiencyThroughout. Season
By WILLIAM
Rushing season, which com­menced last Wednesday at 4:20 P. M. and is being carried on through this week by tlie various fraterni­ties on the campus, is, this year, iu the nature of an experiment,. be­
cause of the change of rules ef­fected by the Interfraternity Coun­cil. The most important revision 
in the rules have been the intro­duction of the contacting period and the lengthening of the rush­
ing season to include one more week-end. The contacting period has been established so that a cer­
tain fixed time could be set apart and used solely for the purpose of malting dates with the freshmen for the coming week. This has eliminated the mad rush across the Woodlawn Avenue lawn and has done away with much of the fever­ish excitement which accompanied 
the start of previous rushing sea­sons. By giving the freshmen a chance to determine their schedule for visiting the various houses, tbe contacting period has proved a benefit to both fraternities and
LANDSBERG
rushees.Last year’s rushing season prov­ed beyond a doubt that one week was inadequate for twenty-two fra­ternities to rush an incoming class of approximately four hundred men. Not only was it difficult for the 
fraternities to become acquainted with the rushees in so short a time, but it also was unfair to the rushee because it forced him to make a decision without having be­come well enough acquainted with the fraternities The Interfrater­
nity Council by lengthening the time for rushing, has done much to 
smooth over these difficulties by providing both parties with tlife opportunity to exercise better judgement in their choice.So far this year, rushing season, is proceeding along smoother and less-hapliazard lines than previ­
ously. It is, as yet, too early to declare the extent of its success un­der the new rules and while they may not be an ideal solution to the problem, it is believed by most to be a step in the right direction.
Graduates Do 
Good Work 
In Metallurgy
Variety Of Experiments 
In Progress With 
New Apparatus
Graduate students in the Depart­ment of Metallurgy are engaged 
in work which, besides being of great interest, will prove of great 
value in the study of metals. Dr. Vseuolod N. Krlvobolc who is in charge of all graduate metallurgi­cal research says, “The problems on which my men are working are indeed of great variety.”Andre Hone who is the recipient of the Province of Ontario scholar­ship and a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Science in the spring is investigating the rate of reac­tion between pure aluminum and magnesium in alloys. Since prac­tically no work has been done up to this time on the rate of reaction in solids, his results will, no doubt, be of great value.
Maxwell Censamer Is continuing his work on the alloys of pure iron and manganese which is part of a comprehensive investigation car­
ried out on these metals by the Bureau of Metallurgical Research.Lieutenant J. W. LiUdewig of the 
U. S. Navy and Miles K. Smith are working together on the strength 
at high temperatures of heat and corrosion resisting alloys. A prob­
lem on the same kind of alloys Is being carried out by Rush A. Lincoln and Charles W. Sclinck as well by Vasili V. Kuznetzoff and Ivan G. Liferenko, the two holders 
of tlie Russian government scholar­ships.The graduate laboratories are growing rapidly and have recently acquired some very excellent ap­
paratus. One of the most recent additions is an X-ray apparatus which will be used in discovering 
some of the effects of X-rays upon metals.
Guild To Place Boxes 
For Welfare Gifts
The Carnegie Guild, campus 
philanthropic organization, discuss­
ed its Christmas welfare program 
at a meeting Tuesday, November 
29. The Guild adopted a sugges­
tion to place boxes in both Mar­
garet Morrison and the College of 
Fine Arts where student contri­
butions may be made.
Journalistic 
Honorary Call 
Three Today
Alpha Chi Alpha Names 
Women Active On 
Publications
Theta Chapter of Alpha Chi Al­
pha, women’s national journalistic 
honorary, in its semi-annual call 
named the three following women who have been prominent In pub­lications activities at Carnegie: Loretta Conlln, Sarah Freedman, and Alice 1-Ienzl.Miss Conlln and Miss Henzl are Junior Editors of the Tartan aud assistant secretaries of Student 
Council. The former la a member of the Women’s Junior Prom Com­mittee, the latter is the Feature Editor of the Thistle, treasurer of the Secretarial Club, and a formor Cwen. Both are juniors In the Department of Secretarial Studies.Miss Freedman, a senior in the Department of Secretarial Studies, 
Is a member of the Puppet staff and is now secretary to the editor.These women have boon olected 
to Alpha Clil Alpha In recognition of meritorious services on the Car­negie publications. Requirements for membership are acceptable work of a literary character for a college newspaper, a degree ot journalistic executive ability, and a standard of scholarship. The next call will bo made on Qualifi­
cations Day during the Spring Carnival.Alpha Chi Alpha will hold Its second journalistic seminar on Thursday afternoon of tills week at 4:30 in Room 102, Margaret Morrison. All women members of the staff are requested to attend.The following are officers of Al­pha Chi Alpha: president, Chris­
tine Leighou; vice-president,' Edna Pearson; secretary-treasurer, Hen­rietta Steinberg; social-chairman, Marjorie Dougherty.'
Theta Tan Honorary 
Interviews New Men
Theta Tau, engineering honorary fraternity, requests all members to be present at Dean Tarbell’s office on December 11, for the pur­pose of interviewing the men seek­ing admission into the fraternity. The men who are selected will be initiated at a meeting following the Christmas holidays. Theta Tau calls its pledges from among the three upper classes of the Col- lege of Engineering.
Extensive Survey Indicates 
Drastic Change In Industry
Technologists Are Reinforcing Assumption Thai 
The Increasing Complexity Of Industry Will 
Eventually Exceed Capacity Of Control
By DR.
A period of business depression 
Ib naturally a time of dissatisfac­tion, struggle, and experimenta­tion. We are confronted constantly with new plans for renovating In­dustrial well-being, while we must’ also recognize the presence of those who see only disaster ahead. Strangely enough, one of the most 
pessimistic utterances published in recent months is that of “Tech­
nocracy,” a group of engineers and architects.This group of technical men has 
been studying for some time the trend of modern industry. They 
have undertaken to construct three thousand charts of different indus­tries, as one part of analysis of our 
industrial trend. It is their pres­ent conclusion that recovery from our present slump—if it comes— 
will raise us to heights of sj ecula-
GUILD
tlve expansion exceeding that of 1928-29; the reaction from this will be far worse than our present ex­
perience. This Is predicted. In part at least, from a study of the problems of prices and Indebted­ness. If our government contin­ues to underwrite certain forms of debt, through tho Reconstruction Finance Corporation and similar agencies, we may see a wild infla­tion and subsequent collapse.The Technocrats are also devot­ing attention to that unfortunate situation which Is generally known as "Technological Unemployment.” They are finding evidences at “sat­urations” of other sorts, which al­so tend to interfere with the smooth operation of our industrial machine.It is probable that further stu- (Contlnued on Page Three)
Victorian Age 
Melodrama To 
Open Tonight
Drama Department Will 
Present “The Ticket- 
Ol'-Leave Man”
Memorial Foundation 
Invites Dr. Baker To 
Lecture In Germany
TO SPEAK ABROAD
B. IDEN PAYNE WILL 
DIRECT PRODUCTION
Plan Serious Production 
Without Any Attempt 
To Burlesque
By ROY MINET
Tonight, all the clorious pomp 
of the Victorian English stage will 
be revived in the Little Theater 
when the curtain rises on B. Iden 
Payne’s production of “The Ticlcet- 
of-Leave Man” by Tom Taylor. Done in a serious manenr and without any attempt to burlesque, this melodrama is typical of its time, and is also one of its great­est. The vitality alone of one of Its great characters, Detective Hawkshaw, will thrill alike any bank president or any messenger boy.“Ticlcet-of-Leave Man” was first performed at the London Olympic Theater on May 27, 1863. It. was tremendously popular and ran for a period of over 40 years with frequent rovivals. It oxhiblts all the defects Introduced to meet popular taste, done by a play­wright who was perfectly willing to lower his abilities in order to follow the line of least resistance. Yet it must bo remembered that its sham sentimentalities were 
(Contlnuod on Page Four.)
Y.M. & Y.W.C.A. 
Arrange Joint 
Yuletide Party
A joint mooting of tho Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. will bo hold on December 14th at (! p. m. In tho Rocroation Iiall of tho Sixth Pres­byterian Church. Tho mooting will take tho form ol! a Christmas party. Christmas oxorelses and tho singing of carols will form tho program.
Mr. I-Ionry C. Wostln ’33, and Mr. Fred C. Ford ’33, woro choson as roproBontallvos of tho studont Y. M. C, A. to the Fall Studont Conforonco of tho Y. M. C. A. to bo hold at Grovo City. Tho follow­ing schools woro roprosontod at tills conforonco: Pitt, Carnoglo,
Edinboro, Thiel, W. & J., Alle­gheny, California, Kialtl, Grovo City, Gonova, Slippery Rock, Waynesboro, Clarion, Westminis­ter, and Indiana. Some of the 
speakers at tho conference woro Mr. Charles C. Ellis, D. D., who has been President of Juniata College since 1930 and a graduate studont of Princeton and I-Iarvnrd with a Doctorate in Philosophy from the 
University of Pennsylvania. Rev. John Ray Ewers, D. D„ Pastor of the East End Christian Church In Pittsburgh.M,r. George Irving, a native of Canada and a graduate of McGill University also spoke. In recent years lie has been Secretary of the Evangelical Emphasis Department of the National Council of tho Y. M. C. A’s of North America. He has given much of his time to the development of religious fel­lowship among students in col leges and universities all over the land.
Will Speak At Leading 
Universities During 
Next Two Months
AMERICAN- GERMAN 
GOOD WILL OBJECT
Will Confer With Experts 
As To Possible Advances 
In Research Work
DR. THOMAS S. BAKER 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president 
of Carnegie, has accepted an invi­
tation to deliver a series of lec­
tures at German universities dur­
ing the months of January and 
February.
Honorary For 
Women Holds 
Annual Recital
Sigma Alpha Iota Calls 
Sixteen Women For 
Current Year
Science Club Holds 
Annual Xmas Party
The Science Club of Margaret Morrison will hold its annual Christmas party on Thursday even­ing, December 15 in the Recrea­tion Hall. The traditional custom of exchanging presents will be con­
tinued.Committees in charge of the ar­rangements were appointed by Gertrude E. Landis ’34, president, 
as follows:Gifts: — Catherine Elizabeth 
Davis ’35, chairman, Leonora Free­man ’34, and Virginia A. Linn ’35: refreshments—Mary Jane Gray ’33, chairman; Isabel E. Weston, ’33, and Mary Wynne ’35; decora­tions:—Frances IT. Brown '33, chairman, Sara E. Bray ’35, and Daisy V. Clarke ’35;. entertain­ment:—Mary A. M. Husband ’34. chairman, Margaret F. Ripley ’33, and Mary P. Warner ’35; invita­tions:—Anna Billy ’33, chairman, Thelma M. Shelley ’35, and Doro­thy Louise Edwards ’33.
Mr. Baldwin To Speak 
Before Civil Engineers
Mr. C. G. Baldwin, inspector in the Pennsylvania Railroad Bureau of Explosives, will address a meet­ing of the American Society of Civil Engineers on Wednesday, December 7. Mr. Baldwin will speak on "Transportation of Dan­
gerous Articles."On December 14, Mr. W. R. Trlem, also of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad, win speak before another A. S. C. E. meeting on the “Appli­cation of Engineering Principles 
to. the Movement of Traffic on a Railroad.”
Sigma Alpha Iota, national mu­
sical honorary for womon, hold Its 
annual rocltal on Thursday, Do- 
combor 1, In tho Exhibition Hall 
of tho Fine Arts Building. A 
formal rocltal and a reboptlon con 
st.ll.utod tho program for tho fuiic- 
tlon, which marked tho third yonr of, tho oxlstonco of the honorary.Slxtoon pledges wore called to Sigma Alpha Iota on the evening of tho recital. Although all accept­ances have not yot. boon roeolvos, tho womon who were called are. Ilazel Loulso Campbell ’35, Hilda Ellers ’35, Narva Hooter '31, 
Vivian Johnston ’33, Miriam John son, Gertrude Landis ’34, (Mar- garot Morrison), (¡race Motzor ’34 Josophlne McGrall, Alice McKol- voy ’35, Sylvia Sconza '34, Beatrice Sommorvlllo ’34, Margaret, Varner '30, Henrietta Warner '33, Betty Watson '35, Florence Weaver '35, and burline Williams '34.Sigma Alpha lota Is presenting 
a weekly radio program of classic­al music over radio station K'DICA ovory Friday at 4:15 p. m. 'Tho 
programs are arranged In connec­tion with carrying out one of the national obligations of the organ­ization, which is to try to Improve radio programs. Memhors of thechorus, which is featured in thobroadcasts, are taken from bothSigma Alpha Iota and the Madri­gal Choir, a group of twenty wo­men from the Music Department who sing together—unaccompanied and undirected during the per­
formance.
‘Y’ Holiday Program 
Opens Sunday Night
“Tech Night,” to be held Decem­ber 11 at the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church, Forbes and Murray, will initiate the annual Christmas 
events of the Carnegie Y. M. C. A. The second of these events Is the annual Christmas Chapel, presided over by President Baker, which will be held on Tuesday, December 13 at 12:30 in the Little Theater, College of Fine Arts. Mr. R. V. Davis, head of the Y. M. C. A., will 
select the Christmas carols to be sung.The last of these events will lie a joint party, given by the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A., on Wednesday, December 14, in Recreation Hall, Margaret Morrison College.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, December G:Student Assembly, Little Thea­ter, 11:30. Speaker, Mr. Wal­demar Kaempffert., Science Ed­itor of New York Times.Wednesday, December 7: Freshrnan-Sophomoro Salamagun­dl Party, Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 3:30 to 0 o’clock.Thursday, December 8:News Meeting. Alpha Chi Alpha, Room 102, Margaret Morrison, at 4:30.Saturday, December 10:President Baker's Faculty Re­ception and Theater Party, Little Theater.Sunday, December 11:Tech Night, Sixth Presbyterian Church, 8 o'clock. Speaker,1 Mr. Andrew Park, District At­torney. Music hy Kiltie Band and Women’s Glee Club.
Dr. Baker has accepted an invi­
tation from the Oberlaender Trust 
of the Carl Scliurz Memorial Foun­
dation to spend January and Feb­
ruary in Germany visiting and lec­
turing at some of the leading Ger­man universities.His lectures will deal with the general aspects of public opinion in the United States. The titles of his lectures are: “The Present Significance of the United States in International Affairs.” “The American Mind,” and “The Pres­ent State of American Education and Research.” In addition to 
these formal lectures there will be opportunities for addresses on other subjects. Engagements have boon made for Dr. Baker to speak at the universities of Berlin, Bres­lau, Gottingen, Hamburg, IToidle- berg, Königsberg, and Mpnicli.Tho trust under which the loc- turos will bo givon was founded in April, 1931, by Gustav Oborlaen- der, philanthoplst of Reading, Pa., as part of tho memorial to Carl Schurz, ono of the most distin­guished Immigrants to this coun­try. Tho purpose of tho memorial Is to enrich tho life and thought of tho American people by promoting understanding and good-will bo- twoon tho pooplo of the German speaking countries and tho pooplo of the United Statos.Dr. Baker Is tho second repre­sentative of Amorlcnn universities who has boon honored hy the foun­dation. Last yoar IJr. Robert. A. Millllcan, distinguished physicist of tho California Institute of Tech­nology, spont throo months visit­ing and lecturing In Germany.Dr. Maker Is especially lntorostod in studying the rocont develop­ments In German technical schools, und In both public and private rosoarch laboratories, in discussing his jiians, Dr. Baker said, “Whllo abroad I shall utillzo what time I can socuro from my rather crowded lecturing program to confer with exports so that on my return I shall bo prepared to mnlco some recomendatlons with regard to tho next stop forward wo shall take In tho advancement 
of our Institution as a contor of onglnoorlng research."This will lie Dr, Baker's second lootui'o sorlos In Europe, He de­livered lectures on American lli'o and customs In tho spring of 1928 in Paris under the auspices of the Carnoglo Endowment for Interna­
tional Peace.
Typolhetae Head 
Visits Printers
Mennem S. Woyl of Philadelphia, newly-olected president of the United Typotlietae of America, was a recent guest of the Depart­ment of Printing. Mr. Weyl was accompanied on his visit by Mr. John J. Deviny of Washington, D. C., secretary of the United Ty- pothetae.Mr. Weyl is vice-president and treasurer of the Edward Stern & Company, one of the oldest and best known producers of color- printing in Philadelphia. He has been an officer of the Typotlietae for a number of years and was elected to the presidency at the annual convention at Cincinnati in October. Two years ago Mr. Weyl delivered one of the addresses in the Typotlietae lecture series at Carnegie.Mr. Deviny was formerly in charge of production in tlie United States Bureau of Printing and En­graving at Washington. Since 1929 lie has held the position of secretary of the United Typotlietae of America.Professor Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing, conducted 
the inspection of the Department of Printing. Both men were loud in their praise of the work Carne­gie is doing in the field of printing and publishing.
Intercollegiate Ball
To Be Held Dec. 6
The annual Intercolloglato Ball Is to be hold in Harrisburg In tho Penn Harris ballroom, December 2(5, under the supervision of Ray­mond Best and Sidney Steele, formor Penn State students. An honorary assisting committee of girls selected from colleges and universities throughout Pennsyl­vania will be named in the near 
future.A member of the student body will be selected in the near future 
to represent Carnegie on the com­mittee. The tickets will be avail­
able from the committee members or at the hotel the night of the 
dance.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKNEGTE TARTAN, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1932
New York U. 
Trims Skibos 
By 13-6 Score
Annual Dollar 
Day Fund To 
Close Dec. 31
Co-Caplain George KavelWomen’s Athletics by Gloria Kloos
Where Carnegie Coeds one and all, Practice gym and play basketball; 
Climb the steps into the hall, There to answer the first roll-call.
This is the first year that all of 
the upper class teams have been 
unusually strong and it depends 
upon the Freshmen to decide 
whether the competition will be school-wide. Remembrance of Play-Day when several Freshmen showed surprising ability bn the floor offers some proof of their probable strength. Do the Fresh­men know that they are allowed to 
substitute a basketball practice for their gym period? It’s a grand privilege to be allowed to sleep an extra hour in the morning!!!The meeting on Thursday is most important for everyone who intends to come out for the team. It is necessary for the manager to know how many from each class intend to try out for the team so 
that convenient practice hours may be arranged for everyone. Tues­day, Thursday and Friday have always proved to be the best days, but everyone is allowed to offer suggestions as to the hours. Be sure to come so that we will not plan practices for a time that is inconvenient to YOU.
All of which is just a very in­formal way of announcing that the Basketball season, scheduled to open next week, will hold its pre­liminary meeting of the season at 4:30 on Thursday afternoon in the Women’s Gym. Basketball has al­ways been one of the most popu­lar sports on the campus, and this year promises to be more exciting than ever. The rivalry among the three upper classes had its bitter start during last year’s tournament, 
and the Sophomores and Juniors are determined to prevent the Seniors from capturing the title for the third year in succession. That powerful Sophomore team offered such stiff competition that it was necessary to play an extra quarter of the final game in order to determine the victors. If Kitty Conti is successful in getting every 
one of last year’s players to com­pete again this year the Seniors may be due for an upset.
Coach Jones Of 
U.S.C. To Broad­
cast This Week
John L. Porter Started 
Alumni Dollar Plan 
Five Years Ago
Tartans Outplay Violet 
Team But Lose In 
Final Period
It the limt two Carnegle-N. Y. U. 
games had ended with the com­
pletion of their respective third 
quarters, the Tartans would have 
won them both. However, it is 
customary to play all four periods 
and so, for the second time in as 
many years, New 'X'ork spotted Car­
negie six points for three stanzas 
and then won out in the final fif­
teen minutes of play. The result 
of the current New York invasion 
was 13-G and marked the Skibos’ 
third defeat of the season.
Fate seems destined to leer at 
Carnegie from all angles this year 
for, not being content with forcing 
a mediocre season on the Plaid, 
she now shows the Scotch follow­
ers that a really good halfback has 
been wandering around the campus 
for three years in the role of track 
captain. The Merriwell referred to 
is Tom Coulter who is having a 
try at football in his last year at 
school, and who. in the last two 
games has added enough experi­
ence to his natural ability to gain 
a starting position in the final 
combat of the year witli George­
town.
Coulter, although still far from 
a finished football product, was the 
big gun of the Tartan attack against the Violets. The big Canuck combined liis great speed with a surprising driving power to prove a constant threat to tile New York goal line. It was Tom who started the touchdown drive in the third quarter by returning a punt to his own 44 and it was Coulter wiio crossed the final mark after the successful parade down the field had placed the oval on the one-yard line.
Throughout the flrst half Car­negie outplayed N. Y. U. and that 
six points looked as big as a moun­tain when the fourth quarter started. The Tartans, however, 
showed signs of tiring after scor­
ing their touchdown and when it became necessary to re­
lieve the fatigued-Clansmen in the final period, Now York opened up a desperate aerial attack and took the game. It is interesting to note that the Violets only com­pleted two passes out of eighteen attempts against Carnegie, both successful heaves coming in the last quarter and both were good fop touchdowns.
The Violots recorded tho tying six points with a drive which started on their own 28-yard line and ended when Wliito caught 
Tanguay’s pass over tho goal line. Tho point was missed and Carno- gio still had a tie but the Now 
Yorkers sot sal] on another cruise headed by McNamara and Tanguay which carried tho ball to tho Tech 
¡10. At this juncture Tanguay 
orossod up tho Tartan and heaved a pass on flrst down to McNamara 
who gathorod tho plgnlcln in on tho ono-yard line and wont ovor for tho winning sooro.
The annual Carnegie Dollar Day 
began on Tuesday, November 22 
and will continue until December 
31 during which, time Carnegie 
graduates are urged to contribute 
a dollar or more to the endowment 
fund.
Under the Endowment Fund 
Plan, Carnegie must raise four 
million dollars by 194G. At this 
time the Carnegie Corporation lias 
agreed to double the principle, plus 
the interest. Thus a single dollar 
turned in this year will amount to 
over five dollars in 194G, providing 
the four millions can be raised.
The Dollar Day plan was origi­
nated by John L. Porter, chairman 
of the school committee of Carne­
gie, and lias been in operation five 
years. This campaign is not limited 
to alumni only. Contributions can 
be made at any time during the 
year and still be accredited to the 
Dollar Day Fund. Checks should 
be made payable to the Alumni 
Federation and sent to the Alumni 
Office.
The following have already con­
tributed: Anna McCandless, Roy
A. Hunt (trustee), Mrs. T. C. Towl, 
Harold Yeager, D. M. Sheppard, M. 
T. Archer, C. F. Wright, Paul 
Johner, Golda Heminger, Owen W. 
Jones, E. D. Lambert, Lu M. Hart­
man, A. W. Crownover, Helen 
Wassell, James Guthrie, John 
Pelikan, Margaret Benner, Paul W. 
Emmell, L. H. Lee, Colonel S. H. 
Church, (President, Carnegie Insti­
tute), Catherine Allen, E. E. 
Brown, Dorothy D. Savage, Ed­
mund Ashe, Edythe A. Tenney, 
Henry Seaman, Wm. A. Walder, 
Ruth Brooks, Kathryn Shuman, W. 
S. Davis, W. F. Alster, F. H. Noel, 
Marguerite M. Shupp, James P. 
1-lall, Ruth A. Tejan, Thomas 
Davies, John L. Porter (Trustee), 
T. W. Blewitt, Mr. and Mrs. O. A. 
Dickman, R. A. Franks (Trustee),A. L. Linderman, E. C. Ramage, F. C. Ziesenheim, W. C. Maurer, J.. F. Laboon, John F. Maxwell, Char­lotte E. Kaliler, Marion Burns, John E. Bowler, Wm. II. Norman, Frank J. Lanalian (Trustee), T.B. Chappell, Theron Wasson, L. C. Lustenberger, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Kirkpatrick, Henry Kacliel, Karl Fulton, Elizabeth D. McEwen. 
Marjory Snodgrass.
Two Stars Lost 
From Mitt Team
Beginning his third year as box­
ing coach at Carnegie, Ernie Sesto- 
is very much excited over his 
chances of putting out a first class- 
contender this time. Already he- 
has some of his men working out 
every day in anticipation of a 
strenuous campaign.
His chief handicaps will be the- 
replacing of two of his best mitt 
flingers, Tom Waldron and Brute 
Wertz, heavyweight and flyweight 
respectively. Waldron dropped out 
of school, and Wertz transferred 
to the University of Colorado,. 
Both these men were severe an­
noyances to the competition last 
season.The loss of Waldron, however*, will be greatly offset by the pres­ence of Jack Croissant, who fea­tured in several lcnock-down-and- drag-out bouts last year. He is now playing on the varsity football; team, but he is expected to re­
port when the grid season draws: to a close.Among the veterans back in the- fold this season are Captain Carr*, an extremely tough welterweight who won most of his bouts last winter, Mike Restaine| a fast light­weight who was out of school the,- preceding semester, and Ralph Atlas; 
bantam star, Abe Konick, who was- a sensation on the freshman squad'- last year, did not return to school..As usual the Sesto men face a. "suicide” schedule this year. On 
the books are such teams as West Virginia, Bucknell, Duquesne, Pitt,, and Temple in addition to the an^ uual Eastern Intercollegiate tourn­ament. which will be held at Mor^ gantown.
Coach Howard Jones of the Uni­
versity of Southern California’s un­
beaten and untied team which has 
bowled over strong opposition 
throughout the far West to earn its second consecutive Pacific Coast championship, will be Christy Walsh’s guest during the All-America Football Show to be broadcast over the WABC-Colum- bia network from 9:00 to 9:30 p. m., EST, Friday, December 9. Their interview, taking place on the eve of the meeting in Los Angeles between Jones’ charges and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, will originate in the studios of KHJ, Columbia outlet in that city. The remainder of the pro­gram, including college songs by band and chorus and Harry - von 
Zell’s football dramatizations, will originate in Columbia’s New York studios.The results of the Notre Dame- Southern California meeting and the Rose Bowl tilt on New Year’s Day between the latter team and Pitt may answer the question of what team i is entitled to the 
mythical title of National Cham­pions. Jones, Yale graduate of 19OS, starred as an end for the 
Bulldogs and returned to New Haven as a coach immediately after his graduation. 1-Ie lias also coached at Iowa, before going to Southern California, where he has developed consistently powerful teams. Among the players who have learned football under his 
tutelage are such outstanding names as Ted Coy of Yale, Slater and Devine of Iowa, and Drury, Pinclcert and Shaver of Southern California.
George Kavel closed his football career with a blaze of glory by 
scoring four touchdowns against Georgetown.
Tartans Overwhelm Georgetown
By 51-0 Score In Final Contest
Just before the half ended, two more passes, this time by McCurdy, placed the pigskin on the five-yard 
stripe where Spisak, who had re­placed the injured Coulter early in the game, carried it over.
Soon after the start of the third stanza, Spisak and Kavel worked 
the ball to the five-yard line, from, which Kavel scored his first touch­down. Sample intercepted a pass 
shortly afterwards and carried the oval 45 yards to the five-yard mark. Here the Tartans resorted to the old “sleeper” play with Stewart hiding along the sidelines and tak­
ing McCurdy's pass for an easy score. The last throe touchdowns were those beautiful broken field efforts of Kavel.
For the Carnegie fans who saw Saturday’s game, it was almost im­possible to believe that the same team which stumbled through the early season’s games was the club that clicked to perfection against Georgetown. Tartan followers who have faithfully Insisted that the material was there had their convictions aroused in the Pitt and N. Y. U. contests and confirmed In 
the Georgetown rout.Among the seniors who played their final battle Saturday were Co-captain Sample, who completely 
squelched the Iioyas’ few attempts to get an attack clicking; Red 
Jones, as good a center as there is 
in this section; Siegal and Kebe, two sterling guards; McCurdy and Dueger, the flrst string quarter­backs; Tom Coulter, a flashy half­back who played his first and last season of football; and Tony Ostrosky, one of the best pass re­ceivers in the game.
George Kavel Leads Attack 
By Scoring Four Of 
Eight Touchdowns
With Carnegie’s greatest half­
back running wild in his last col­
lege game, the Tartans awoke, 
from the nightmare of stagnation 
that has blighted most of tlieir 
previous contests and handed 
Georgetown University the worst 
defeat in tho latter’s gridiron his­
tory, 51-0. Today all tho Washing­
ton football fans can talk of Is 
Kavel, wlio gave tho greatest indi­
vidual exhibition of ball carrying 
seen in the Capital for years. 
Carnegie’s sterling co-captain, who 
has paid with all-American honors tho penalty of playing on a medi­ocre team, scored just half of Ills team's touchdowns.Kavel’s longest scoring dash 
carried 99 yards after he had in­tercepted a 1-Ioya. pass on his own 
one-yard lino and had eluded the entire opposing team, George also turned in runs of 45 and 43 yards 
for scores, both coming after re­ceiving passes and eluding man after man to register the touch­downs.- All of these goalward dashes came in the last quarter after Kavel had hung up his first score on a five-yard slice off tackle in the third period.
Carnegie went after her flrst score early. The Hoyas received 
the kicltoff but were forced to punt. The Skibos marched down the field with Kavel and Coulter car­rying the oval, and finally a pass to Stewart placed the bail on the 
five-yard line. Sayles then plunged over and Stewart added the extra point. The second score came as a result of two beautiful passes by Bevevino, one to Tessor good Cor 24 yards and one to Stewart who caught the ball on the 20, eluded several tacklers, and went over.
Smoking is permitted during ex­aminations and at some lectures at the University of North Carolina, which is largely supported by the tobacco industry.
YOUR WORK 
WILL IMPROVE
IF TYPEWRITTEN
LOW-PRICE RENTALS 
TO STUDENTS
FORT PITT
Typewriter Company
(Above ^McCloy’s)
642-44 LIBERTY AVENUE 
ATLANTIC 8320
rtiegie
tDanEK EW KDMMdryppppp ew 00
.KEDAi MKDMAEio KDRdUA?KV YYs 11»(5Finii' downu, ruiiltlntr.___ 10 8
N'umbor o£ usstballllll ir yo
PiuiBOB com pick’d______ .) 0.KEDAi yfMArio ­MNSSEfpp .8 vgFirst downa, pmiboh____ 1 (i
Number of punts______ 12 7¦»Average dialanco of
punto ------------------------- 3G 35Run back of punts andkMrk-otti» _____________ VIS 21
Fumbles _______________ 1 .)
Ball, lost, fumbles_____ 0 3Penalties_______________ 7 8
Ground lost, itenalticH__*15 70
°Punts averaged from line of scrim­
mage.
N. • Y. U. intercepted four passes. 
Carnegie one pass.
Iiibwtq Engraving Company
our
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST 
Specializing in Examining Eyes and 
Furnishing Glnsses.
"Special Student RateB”
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor StreetAt the Temple-Villanova game, cheerers used megaphones equip­ped with a horn and a bell./a FEW days more—then home for Christmas I 
'— I Let the telephone settle your holiday plans, 
(That’s the easy way to make your “dates,” decide oni 
gifts and tell the family when you’ll arrive.
Hot/ftAvo/D ßONERj*THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
Call home tonight! After 8:30 P. M. low Night Rates- 
go into effect on Station to Station calls. To take 
advantage of the saving, just give the operator your 
home telephone number.
A GOITER, is
A MUSICAL 
INSTRUMENT
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
T
HERE ought to be a law against 
people like Bill Boner! lie even 
thinks an escapade is a staircase 
outside a house.
Still—he might be cured, if some­
body would convert him to pipe 
smoking. For a good pipe with the 
right tobacco is man’s first aid to 
clear thinking and wisdom. As for 
the “right tobacco,” that’s easy. A 
recent investigation showed Edge- 
worth Smoking Tobacco to be the fa­
vorite at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
Just one puff will tell you why. It’s 
that truly individual blend of fine 
old hurleys— a blend you find only 
in Edgeworth SmokingTobacco. Once 
you try Edgeworth, you’ll never 
again be satisfied with less.
Inexpensive? These night-time Station to Station 
calls are so low priced you can make it a habit to 
call home regularly once a week. Fix a day and hour. 
Then Mother and Dad will be waiting and you can 
always use Station to Station service.
le resources
the services or ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positors
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two 
forms — Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed 
and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes 
—15jf.pocket package to pound hu­
midor tin. If you’d like to try before 
you buy, write for free sample packet. 
Address Larus &
Bro. Co., 120 S. 22d .
St., Richmond, Va.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyrnn
Station to Station Call 
3-Minute Connection Wherever applicable 
Federal tax is included. 
Day Rate Night Rate 
. $0.65 $0.35
From Pittsburgh to:
Altoona ..................Bradford ................Cleveland, Ohio .. Hagerstown, Md. . Youngstown, OhioMEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEMEDGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCO
2
THE
PLAID SPORTS: * jSCREEN
Jgi I•mMiBY JOE BRONSON
THE CARNEGIE TECH GRIDDERS BROUGHT THE 1032 FOOT- 
BALL CAMPAIGN to a blazing climax on Saturday when they trounced 
tho supposedly strong Georgetown eleven by the overwhelming score 
of 51-0. It was tho worst defeat suffered by the Hoyas In their fifty- 
clght years of gridiron history. They had a big and fast team but 
never in the sixty mlnutec of play could'they check the strong running 
and passing attack which tho Tartans flashed; That certain something 
which has been missing from the Skibos playing all year finally came 
forth and helped make the game the best the Plaid have engaged in 
this year. It would have taken the best team in the country to stop 
the determined Steffenltes on Saturday. Only once during the ontire 
contest was Georgetown ever able to penetrate deeply into the Tartan 
territory and that was late in the last quarter when a passing attack 
advanced the ball to the eighteen-yard line, but there it stopped. 
During the first half the Hoyas were able to net only six yards. Car­
negie ran up a total of twenty-one first downs against their opponents’ 
eight. Eight touchdowns wore scored of which four were made by 
Kavel, two by Stewart, one by Spisak, and one by Sayles.
CO-CAPTAINS GEORGE KAVEL AND “HOOKS” SAMPLE must have 
gotten a lot of pleasure out or winding up their footbull careers at 
Carnegie with such a smashing victory. It was the most decisive vic­
tory gained all year, and it is certainly fitting that it should have hap­
pened in their last game. Ceorge Kavel carried that plgslcln in a man­
ner never seen before in Washington. Before the game Georgle needed 
four touchdowns to bring him up to the top in scoring in the Tri-State 
district; and when the game was over George had gained those four 
touchdowns. Ho wus just a demon and could hardly be stopped. 
Three of his touchdowns were the results of runs of -10, 45, and 99 
yards. On the run of 40 yards, Kavel was tackled by almost every 
Georgetown player, but he succeeded in getting away from them all 
and crossed tho final clialkmarlc standing up. His 99-yard run in the 
last few minutes was probably the most exciting of them all. A 
Georgetown pass, meant for a touchtown play, was snatched from the 
receiver’s hands on tho one-yard line by Kavel, who started up the 
sideline, reversed his field; then headed for the lino again and outran 
all would-be tacklers. "Hooks” Sample repeated Ills marvelous play­
ing of the Pitt and New York University games and added a little 
extra for good measure. He was seldom taken completely out of a 
play and more than once Hooks crashed through the Hoya’s line to 
throw tho runner for a loss. ’Tls going to be a tough job trying to fill 
the positions left vacant by llieBe two stellar players.
THE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY JINX which is becoming almost as 
bad as the old Wash-Jeff jinx was against the Tartans on Thanksgiving 
Day when the New Yorkct’B downed the Plaid 13-G. It was one of those 
games which make one really feel bad about losing. For three quar­
ters of the game the Plaid had the game all their own way. Sayles 
and Kavel wero ripping huge holes In the Violet line, and Coulter was 
skirting the ends. Twice In the first quarter the Tartans got down to 
the ten-yard line and In the second quarter they were never out of the 
New Yorkers’ territory. And, when in tho third quarter a drive of 
forty-five yards and n fifteen-yard penalty making It sixty yards netted 
six points for the Tartans It looked like a sure victory for the Tartans. 
But fate had other things In store. The rest of the game reads like a 
Dick Merriwell otory. Benton and battered for three quartern, the 
Violet came back In the last quarter to score 13 points and a victory. 
Big Jim Tanguay wna the hero of the day. Tanguay who several years 
ngo was hailed an a wonder, but who had failed so often to live up to 
hla reputntlon that he was demoted to second team, was almost un­
noticed when ho entered the game as a sub In tho last quarter. But 
Jim noon brought the fans to their feet by throwing two accurate 
passes, ono of whloli was forty yards and the other thirty yards, both 
of which were good for touchdowns. These two passes wero the only 
two heaven out of sixteen attempts that gained ground but they were 
good enough to give tho New Yorkers tho sixth victory In seven games 
with the Plaid.
WMl'ON TTTIO FINAL WllISTLlfl BLIflW in the Georgetown gnino II not only brought to an end the football game, but It also brought to u dose tho football caroor of! nlno Carnoglo Tool» Seniors. Captains Kavel and Sample wero not tho only ono« who will bo absent from tho team next year. Quarterbacks Dougor and McCurdy *.w111 graduate this year. Tho other brickfield men to be lost is Tom Coulter, who has played but one year of football, yet who haw shown enough form to become a regular In tho last throe games, There are four line men who played their last game against Georgetown. Curly Siegal, center; Tony Kepbo, guard; "Sholts" Croissant, tackle, and Tony Ostrosky, end.; all of whom finish school In the' spring. Many of those hoys have not gotten tho credit thoy have deserved. For four years they have spent many hours at practice and have taken lots of punishment scrim­maging with the regulars and attempting to Improve tho first team. Thoy seldom complain about tho consideration they received, but our hat is off to them. They are the fellows who make the team what it is.
LAST WEEK THE FOOTBALL TEAM GOT TOGETHER AND 
PICKED AN ALL-OPPONENTS’ TEAM. An All-Opponents’ team
while not having the prestige of an All-American really means more 
to the fellows who are right in there playing than does the latter. 
When you are chosen on such a team it means that the fellows whom 
you have played against, and with whom you have come in bodily con­
tract, think that you are the best they have met. It seems to me that 
such an honor should mean more than one picked by a bunch of type­
writer punchers who sit high and dry in the press box every week. 
Anyhow, the men chosen by the Tartans as being the best they have 
faced this year are:Kosky............................................................................................Left End, Notre Dame
Krause...................................................................................Left Tackle, Notre Dame
Hartwig ...............................................................................................Left Guard, Pitt
Gray..................................................................... ......................................Center, W. & J.Wiethe...........................................................................................Right Guard, Xavier
Kurth...................................................................................Right Tackle, Notre Dame
Daily...........................................................................................................Right End, Pitt
Grahame .....................................................................................Quarterback, Geneva
Heller.............................................................................................................Left Half, Pitt
Koken.....................................................................................Right Half, Notre Dame
McNamara............................................................................................Fullback, N. Y. U.
Honorable mention: Cuba, Cooper, Kohler, Tormey, Brancheau, 
Jaskovhich, Wienstock.George Kavel has been named on every All-Opponent team which 
has appeared to date. He has been picked on Pitt’s, W. & J.’s and 
Temple’s. Three Carnegie men appeared on Temple’s team. They 
were: Kavel, Sample, and Foresman.
SINCE EVERY SCRIBE MUST PICK AN ALL-AMERICAN TEAM and since-1 have not done mb as yet; next week you will And listed in this column the team chosen by yours truly as being the best ono avallablo in tho country. The team which I have chosen differs quite roadlly from most other ones which 1 have soon, but 1 think there will bo fewer people ready to scalp me than Is tho case aftoi’ most of the soloctlons. So, watch this column and next Tuesday and you will noo 
tho team of teams.
COACH ERNIE SESTO has had his boxers out working for some little 
while so Manager Harold Pressman announces. But at tho present 
time there have been no positions picked and there Is an excellent 
chance for any one who comes out to make tho team. There are only 
two varsity men back from last year so It loaves a big gap for Conch 
Sesto to fill; especially in view of tho difficult schedule which has 
been arranged with teams In the new conference. So all mon, fresh­
men or varsity, who are Interested In going out for tho team should 
report to the aforementioned Mr. Pressman, at the Gymnasium Imme­
diately.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT HAS BEEN MADE that Big Don Fletcher and Miss Marjory Taylor were married in the bride’s home on tho twenty- fifth of November. Don Fletcher played three years of varsity football at Carnegie and was one of the best tackles in the district last year. At the present time Don is teaching and coaching at the Appalachian High school in West Virginia.
WE WISH TO APOLOGIZE FOR A MISTAKE that we made in the 
issue preceding the Pitt game. We said that Eddie Baker was captain 
of Pitt’s eleven last year. Victor Mathis corrected us on this\point 
and said the captain was Hirshberg. After a little meditation we be­
lieve he is right; so thanks, “Chicago.”

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6. 10323
Student Deplores 
Unfair Tagging 
Of Parked Cars
Nation Suffers 
In Grip Of “All 
American” Fever
Hunger Marches 
Draws Criticism
First Dance Of 
New Season Is 
Very Successful
College Degree 
Not Necessary To 
Achieve Success
Mass production has extended 
itself into the field of education. 
Today some fifteen hundred uni­
versities and colleges are giving 
degrees every year. This surely 
is mass education and every grad­
uate believes that his sheepskin will open the portals to a new life. Herein lies the fallacy of the de­gree.
A degree does not and never can do any such thing. It is merely a record that a student has passed successfully a prescribed course of a. certain grade or ranlc. A holder 
of a bachelor’s degree is soon made to realize that no success can be had until a master’s degree has been obtained, and getting this degree, he goes on for a doctor’s degree, perhaps. But does the holding of the various degrees necessarily make the possessor a better man or woman.
Views Often NarrowedOne often finds that the pos­sessor of a doctor’s degree is very narrow in his viewpoint and gen­eral outlook on life. They are too much engrossed with their specialized field and have little time to devote upon other topics. 
Perhaps this is due to the special­ized education which they receive while studying for their degree. The curriculum surrounding the at­tainment of advanced degrees is of such a narrow nature that there is little wonder a storm of antag­onism has arisen among candi­
dates.The necessity for an advanced degree of some sort is fast increas­ing. A great many schools require 
applicants ft>r teaching positions to have a doctor’s degree before they will engage them.'The decision to earn a degree because of the nature of the sub­jects necessary for the particular degree does not imply that the stu­dent will grasp a clearer and finer outlook on life. Unfortunately these subjects are almost entirely neglected. Although the subjects which tend to broaden one along cultural and intellectual subjects are offered, the mad rush seems to be to specialize, and this attitude by its very nature tends to narrow one’s viewpoint. Where are the students who believe that educa­tion, is primarily to show us how to live aright? Why even the in­structors seem to overlook this point in education and give more weight to the subject in hand rather'than to the ultimate goal. Education seems to be just a means of getting a job or a better salary.
Student Must Adapt SelfThe student has thrust upon him a formidable array of subjects and 
facts. How is he to order them. Nothing is said or don© about the lack of harmony between educa­tion and living. He is left to ar­range this question for himself as best he can, and then when the inevitable breakdown of our higher strata of society occurs we all won­der why. The conclusion must be arrived at that the obtaining of degrees does not necessarily mean the setting up of any sort of a standard of values.
DIDJA NOTICEIRk BKEa­N RHNDKA 
GW LMrkHN TfUHRTHAT we’re back again after 
two weeks’ absence. Just like 
a bad penny, always turning up. 
Oh yea!
THAT history repeats itself 
and the Thanksgiving Recess 
Dance was a great success. 
Well, if you weren’t there you 
missed a great time and it’s 
your own fault.
THAT hundreds of night stu­
dents are looking wise after 
the mid-semester exams which 
have been prominent the past 
week or so. Guess some are 
happy, and some are, oh well.
THAT you have about three 
weeks left to do your Christ­
mas shopping. Just a little re­
minder in case you should for­
get.
THAT we’re warning you to 
keep your eyes open for people 
with suspicious looking boxes, 
not that the boxes mean any­
thing, but if the experience is 
shocking, well, it’s your own 
fault for being so trusting.
THAT the silhouetted figure 
used at the dance was resting 
his chin on his hands and not 
thumbing his nose.
That you have to get down on 
the floor to shake hands with 
some people.
THAT those Industries boys 
certainly are doing their darn- 
dest to impress a little lass 
from the Arts School. And. oh 
boy, how she can handle them.
THAT we get a big kick hear­
ing the boys say to a certain 
well known individual, "Here's 
a good one for you—Didja No­
tice?” Heh, heh, Barnum was 
right.
THAT we’re letting you in on 
a big secret. Christmas vaca­
tion will soon be here and with 
it another opportunity to do 
some of that night work you 
necessarily must neglect while 
going to night school.
THAT George's place must 
be a popular rendezvous these 
days for the Industries boys. 
How about it, Schultz, when are 
you going to give us the by­
word?
THAT a well known Indus­
tries stand-by was absent from 
our last social affair. Betcha it 
was some party trouble. See 
us next time, old man, we’ve got 
some swell numbers.
THAT that’s that and I’ll be 
seenya.
Hunger marches, so-called, are 
beginning to converge on the na­
tion’s capital, each marcher in the 
ranks probably being moved by a 
different principle. Tlio exact 
reason for performing such a 
march seems to be a bit. obscure. 
Perhaps, it is desire for travel, 
again, it may be in hopes that the 
Government will be brought to 
some realization or other by the 
presence of a large group of self- 
styled unfortunates in the capital, 
then again, it may be just for the 
pleasure of being chased from one 
town to the next, with the possi­
bility of tear gas and cavalry wait­
ing at the end of the journey.
No matter what the motive is, 
these marches seem inane. The 
possible good that might accrue 
from the presence of all these ad­
ditional protests against the de­
pression seem to be offset by the additional load that is thrown upon the communities passed through, the ever present possibility of dis­turbance, and the absolute lack of coordination that marks all of 
these affairs.
In the first place, the Govern­ment is in no position to do any­thing about individual cases any­way, and the various groups on the march certainly do not represent a fair cross section of the country. And, anyhow, suppose they did rep­resent the nation as a whole. What good could comg of such actions? Aside from the activat­
ing motives of the marchers being
Ticket returns for the Thanks­
giving Recess Dance are re­
quested. These returns should 
be sent to John F.‘ Simpson, 
Treasurer, Night Student Coun­
cil, Box 137 C. I. T. By placing 
in the inter-school mail slot in 
the basement of Administration 
Hall no postage will be neces­
sary. Ticket sales count to­
wards the insignia award, and 
the prompt return of the sales 
will, aid in posting credit 
earned.
For the past four or five weeks 
the writer lias noticed that cars 
have been parked on both sides of 
the drive paralleling Industries 
and it was assumed that the ban 
had been lifted. However, during 
the last week somebody got ex­
cited and passed out parking slips 
promiscuously. I say this because 
I have been the recipient of one of 
these tags notwithstanding the 
fact that I have been parking in 
the same location for a number of 
years and nothing had ever been 
indicated that parking was pro­
hibited in this section.
The question arose in my mind, 
was this wholesale tagging ethical 
or justifiable since the ban had ap­
parently been lifted- in order that 
parking accommodations could be 
provided for some temporary ac­
tivity. If this is not the case, then 
why was the practice allowed to 
gain such momentum that it be­
came prevalent.
There would be no cause for. 
complaint if everyone was held to 
the same regulation, or if the city 
code of parking regulations calls 
for the parking ban in the Schen- 
ley district and this ban was en­forced. The distasteful part about the whole situation is that no uni­
form policy exists. At intervals during the night school year I 
have noticed that on certain occa­sions cars are parked along the side claimed to be restricted and no tags are handed out. An in­vestigation might disclose that the wholesale tagging of last week was perhaps not justified and that the parties who were so tagged could have the tags satisfied by report­ing thereon to the proper authori­ties.I should appreciate having this 
protest printed in the Tartan both as a warning and a complaint with the thought in mind that some concerted action may be taken to relieve the parking situation which exists on the campus especially as far as the night students are con­cerned. We are limited for time and surely something should be done to make available every space to us for parking our cars.
We see by the papers that a co ed 
editor has chosen the All-American 
face. Don’t be alarmed, it isn’t a 
face composed of an English fore­
head, a Balkan nose, a German 
mouth, a French chin, or other 
parts representing the. various 
races and nationalities that go to 
make up our population. It. hap­
pens to be an All-American' foot­
ball team, the members of which 
were chosen 011 their facial attri­
butes. Just like a woman, to do- 
cide an important question like 
who should be on the All-American 
by whether they (the players) are handsome or not. However, we must give the little lady credit. The names appearing 011 her list would make a pretty powerful gridiron combination at that.This is an entirely new angle 011 the all prevalent question of the All-American. Why not expand it? We could have All-American ham­burger emporiums (wait'll theGreek restaurant pilots hear of this!), All-American night classes, 
Science departments, street carcrews, etc., the individual members of which would be chosen L’rom the various hamburger shops, brain foundries, college faculties, and
street car operators from all over the country.Some day, we’ll speak to theeditor about it. Instead of a longdistance traveling night studentcontest like last year's touching competition, we could try to have an All-American something orother. At least, the idea’s original, 
and therefore worth trying. (N.B. In.the event that the contest 
should be to decide upon an All- American mind-your-own-business team, the author of DIDJA NOTICE is barred from competition.)
The Night Student Council held 
the first dance of the season in 
the nature of the Thanksgiving 
Recess Dance 011 November 2fi in 
the auditorium of the Men’s Gym­
nasium.
Those who attended the party 
were surprised at the wonderful display of color presented by the decorations employed and it 
showed what the workers 011 the Council activities are accomplish­ing.
Bill Kulesz and his Kilties fur­nished a brand of music which was as line as any ever heard at a dance. The number of requests and the tempo of the performers certainly went a long way in estab­lishing the reputation of the band.The unique program which was reflected 011 the large curtain drap­ing the stage Avas an innovation 
and was the cause of considerable admiration for its execution, it was typical of the colonial times when the spirit of thanksgiving with its festivities prevailed.The dance was well attended and the hour for closing came all too soon for the guests. All left with the expressed desire to attend the» next, function held by the council.
They say that a littje vacation 
hurts no one, but I am here to 3ay. 
that it does, because I have become 
so rusty that I can hardly hold my 
pen, and as for typewriting this 
article, well I simply couldn’t. 
At all events, we had a vacation, 
even if it was only two days, and 
that they are all over now. But 
just wait, there are more coming 
and maybe some of the night stu­
dents won’t be glad.
1 chanced to come out on the 
campus the other day, really it 
was day time, and you can imagine 
my astonishment at seeing what 
really was behind the walk along 
the cut. I was always under the 
impression that the end of space 
existed at the margin established 
by the shrubs and trees which line 
the walk. I was wrong. Yes, I 
had to rub my eyes several times 
for they had decapitated the trees. 
It was a sorry looking spectacle 
which ! beheld. Tall, gaunt, de­
nuded stumps, lined up in tomb­
stone fashion, instead of the long 
flowing branches of foliage. I’ll 
bet this slaughter was the after- 
math of Fritz’s sojourn in Europe, 
for where else would he get the 
idea to hackle the campus.
The removal of the heads of the 
trees did one thing, however, and 
that was permit one to see what 
was down in the valley. I was 
astonished to note that there was a 
tennis court, dog kennels, and sev­
eral other things, not at all what 
one would expect to see, but then 
the unexpected seems to be popu­
lar right now.
Were you at the Thanksgiving- 
Dance of the Night Student Coun­
cil? Well, if you weren’t, you 
missed a great treat. All the big 
shots were around and the dance 
came off in great style. The band 
was one of the best to play, and 
the Kilties with Kulesz’s players 
certainly did themselves credit. 
The hall is a mighty big one and 
when those who attend can have 
a good time, well then they must 
have enjoyed themselves. Sounds 
ambiguous, but then one can’t be 
too ambiguous when talking about 
a night school dance.I noticed that the dance crashed 
through to the front page too. ’ Guess our editors aren’t stepping out tc rate such popularity. Speak­ing of the paper brings me once again to- saying that I think the Tartan is about the best ever. No it isn’t because of my wisdom, etc.. 
hut because of the great amount of work somebody must do to make
Economist Urges 
Change In Views 
For Better Deal
Economists, writers, business 
men, and almost every other per­
son who has thought at all about 
the subject has presented his ideas 
on what is wrone with the world 
and how to cure the ills. Two 
methods of procedure are evident.First a radically new policy of industrial, economical, and social relationship, and second, a return to some previous state of existence in which life is not so complicated with the standard of living lowered 
somewhat.If the first course were adopted, 
our present methods of living would be possible. If the second course were followed there would be a return to a smaller self-sus­taining unit resulting in a some­what different but more stable form of existence.
Economists are too prone to speak about money standards, over­
production, and low prices without thinking that the fundamental basis of our entire system may be at fault. Granted that economists 
view conditions as they exist and catalogue them accordingly, the 
conditions themselves may be en­tirely wrong. If so, then the sys­tem of economics itself is false since it follows a false standard.
States Cause of Ills 'One of the clearest expositions of the fundamental cause of the 
ills of society lias been stated by Professor Walker of England. He claims that the vested interests have constantly blocked the way to improvement, and the three out­standing causes for the existing ¦wrongs are poverty in material possession, poverty in outlook, and the Incompetency of the leaders.Mr. Walker ridicules the idea that low prices mean bad business. 
.When prices are low it should be evidence of sound economical manufacture and distribution. This should result in a higher standard of living. High prices usually mean a larger profit to someone, 
either the manufacturer ¦ 01* dis­tributor.
The main business of the world should not be to buy and to sell, but to make the things that men- want and to distribute them in the simplest and most economical way. 
Much food for thought is presented in the study of these problems. 
They • should be attacked from a fundamental standpoint. It re­mains for society at large to be­
come so educated and prepare itself that it may sometime see the reality and force in the arguments presented.
satisfied to a certain extent, they might just as well stay home and starve, if necessary. Tlio bread lines in Washington are already well enough patronized without 
any outsiders trying to make mat­ters Avorse by increasing the load 
on the taxpayers of any district.
At Skibo Irm, today and tomorrow, you’ll find 
Bill Charlow, of Stetson “D,” eager to acquaint 
you with something' new in made-to-measure 
suits; . . . COLONIAL HOMESPUNS, an out­
standing' accomplishment in fabrics. With every 
Homespun Suit at $27.50 you’ll receive an 
extra pair of trousers without extra cost . . . 
a $41.00 value for only $27.50.
Bill Charlow will also display a complete line of 
fall and winter suits, topcoats, overcoats and 
Tuxedos, from $22.50 up. Don’t forget to see 
him at Skibo Inn, December 7th and 8th.
Council Chooses 
New Officers
At a recent meeting held by the Night Student Council the election tor office of Vice President, Sec­retary, and Treasurer took place which resulted In Henry A. Schwartz being elected vice presi­dent, Chester J. Biscup, secretary, and John F. Simpson, treasurer. 
The election of president talcos place in the spring of the year and William R. I-lodder was elected last spring to that position.______
and processes. He nees a realiza­tion of the complexity of the eco­nomic mechanism of which we are all parts. He' must see that it is not philanthropy to assure people 
of employement at fair wages: that the things which his skill de­vises and produces are incomplete until they reach their ultimate users: and that matters as far reaching as these can scarcely be left to chance.Whatever direction the actual trend of events may take, individ­ual success will certainly be strongly influenced by one’s ability to adapt liimself to a larger degree of control than has here before been known. Those who under­stand the major trends can rise with them*; those who assume that the future will duplicate the past are certain to be left behind.I understand that Puppet was a 
•walkout. At least It was a walk­
out for me, because 1 was unable 
to get a copy- They simply went 
like hot cakes. I tried every place 
to get a copy but they were all 
gone. And to 'think that I didn’t 
get a chance to read What was 
enveloped in the yellow envelope* 
My curiosity has been so aroused 
that I won't leave a stuident un­
turned until I find out What it was 
all about, -so friends and enemie«i 
¡beware.Glad that those pesky exams are over. You know, 1 hate the thought of such cruelty to students. Why can’t some system be evolved 
¦whereby all you have to do is to look at a student and you will know "whether he knows his saib- ject or not. That would be an idea, wouldn't it?
I may be in a fog about my 
studies, but who we.-uldn’t be with 
such black weather as we have 
:had. I hardly knew whether it was 
day or night, and really found 
myself walking over to the earn- 
pus at three o’clock thinking it 
was seven-thirty. Everything 1 
touched became black and it 
wouldn't be much of an effort to 
obtain enough soot to paint a pic­
ture in carbon with the amount of 
.carbon which floated in the air.
Survey Indicates 
Change In Industry
Continued 'From Pago 1 *
.dies by .this group will reinforce their tentative assumption that a shift must be made to a more sta­ble organization of industry. The alternative woitld certainly be lees desirable. This was predieted years ago by Vebleu, the econo­mist;, who was partially responsi­ble fox this -survey. He pointed out that dihe increasing ¡complexity oi industry would reach a. point be­yond the capacity for control of ¡any but the technological expert.Whatever may be the „accuracy or error in these predictions, the fact is evident even to the more 
casual observer that the changes now developing in our economic 
'Structure are vastly more drastic than ¡those associated with past de­pressions. Students now in Car­negie, and in other ¡schools, will have to enter an industry which 
in many -ways will not he like t&at described in their text fcooks.• Possibly the success or failure of oar industrial society in the. next few decades will come down in the end to a matter of adjust­ment. We realize now the need for some adjustment which will
equalize tihe number of applicants for work and the number of oppor­tunities for work. We shall event­ually see (that tills is not ac­complished ¡permanently by mak­ing two or ¡three men share one job. We have proposed a popular maxim that mass consumption must accompany mass production. ’How this is to be brought about is not so simple to explain. Ad­justments are needed in the con­trol of price movem6nts, in the vast realm of international eco­nomic relationships, and in use of the resources of nature.Technical persons generally bold a distrust of situations involv­ing very much of the human factor. It cannot be reduee to an exact 
formula. That a few engineers of standing should invade the realm of business study is significant. It shows itlhat a new social under­standing is in process ,of germina­tion. It also serves as an unmis- takeable arrow of direction to technical -students. ' No longer can a®, engineer be adequately pre- pared by the study of -machines
All Makes 
Sold and Rented
SPECIAL RATES 
TO STUDENTS
Agency 
UNDERWOOD 
ROYAL 
REMINGTON 
—and— 
CORONA 
PORTABLES
Standard 
Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone: ATlantic 0342 
Corona Personal 
Writing Machines
THE PILGRIM’S 
FIRST WINTER
**Nature in the Raw”—as por- 
trayed by Herbert Roesc, cele­
brated painter... inspired by the 
bitter hardships endured by 
America’s first settlers in their 
conflict with raw, wild nature 
(1620). "Nature in the Raiv is 
SeldomMild”—and raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes.
FULTON
| Starts Thurs., Dec.PatronizeA jcorchmg Komance 
That Sizzles With 
Dramatic Bomb Shells
SHOULDaging and mellowing, are 
then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purify­
ing process, described by 
the words—"It’s toasted”. 
That’s why folks in every 
city, town and hamlet say 
that Luckies are such mild 
cigarettes.
AdvertisersTELL?
With This Wonder Cast 
of Celebrities
H. B. WARNER 
EVELYN RRENT
LEW CODY 
NED SPARKS 
WALTER BYRON 
MARCELINE DAY
A love story that smashes 
all conventions and bares 
the lives and loves of women
LdfN ­frkfgH EW aMUi LDrkMHR

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. DECEMBER 6. 1932
artie dTaruccjie Sfattati
EiMNEKVIAV—dMHWVVVVVVV
SDRMAHRR MfAAgHK p
BHGtE MIYFLGWER g.00 
IWNHK GWWMrH HEDKR —fUU 
—TrdHAUHy 9VYe6 T­EKNR EiMNEK.ppppHfzHU 9swe BUfMi EiMNEK..—TrdHAUHy 95v0
EDILG RVItV—HIEFVVJGHt W. LIDD
ppppJGTEBH —. SRGtTGtVEDWIRD E. MrDGtILI)
Victorian Age 
Melodrama To 
Open Tonight
Drama Department Will 
Present “The Ticket- 
Of-Leave Man”
ITTG—IILE EDILGRT 
—E­y EiMNEKR: —dKMRNMAH LHUgdED IUDaAM EiMNEK: HHAKMHNNf TNHMAnHKgDEUUy IUUMREA ExrdfAgH EiMNEKM: MfK?EKMH DEDgdHKNyHfKKy HECHK RDNd BdMUUM­RIRRMgAaHAN EiMNEK: IANdEAy —fKAvfUH
MItI.It. SGIRD LHIT ITTUE 
JEdA HMUNzo EiaDAi Mr—EKaMrko IUMrH HHAzMo LEKHNNf —EAUMA.
JUtIGR EDILGRT: JERH­d IifaSo IANdEAy —frrdMEAHo LEKHNNf —EAUMAo IUMrH HHAzMo 
JEdA HMUNzo EiaDAi Mr—EKaMrko TfaDHU WMrkRo JfrrMDH MMAAENNH.
TBE—IIL WRILERT: MfKy .Mr—DUUEDgdo TNfANEA WMUUMfaR.
ILHLELI— TLIFF: .UEKMf KIEERo WEaHA’R EiMNEK; tHi TNMKUMAgo JEdA LECHRo
JfaHR HfUWHKNy. JHKKy HfARHAo —UMWNEA —fKK.
BLIID TLIFF: JfaHR H. TfAREAHNNMo tHCR EiMNEK; FKfAk —fRRHUo I. t. EvHARo H 
E. Mr.fAAEA. xIDVERLITIt. TLIFF: JfaHR E. TNfdUo MfAfgHK; WMUUMfa WfUiafAo IRRMRNfAN; 
MEKNEA .fKaMRHo WMUUMfa MrKHAAfo EigfK MHyHKo JHKEaH E. Kf­­HU.
—IR—ULILIGt TLIFF: WMUUMfa FMAgUfRRo MfAfgHK; TMiAHy FHUiafAo LHEAfKi RE­
RHAnHKgo IUnHKN BKyrHVJEAHRo InH LHM­zMg.
REBGRLERT: MfKgfKHN .KMWWMAo VHKEAMrf IvUEERo IAAf Lfiio LdHUaf TdHUUHyo .HK­NKDiH SKHfkRNEAH. JfyAH HHAiHKREAo BHNHK BfDUDRo HfKEUi SfHKo JfAAHNNH SUfrko MfKMfA MfUfkEWFo .CHA HfiiErko RDNd .DRNfWREAo JfAH MMUUHKo REy MMAHNo VMK­
gMAMf TMHgHUo WMUUMfa LfAiRnHKgo JfAH LMvMAgRNEAo DfvMREA IKEAR.
LYBITLT: LDrMUUH JfrEnRo IAA KfDWafAo TfKfd BfNNHK­EAo LMUUMfA DMfaEAio TfKfd 
FKMHiafA.
A Word To The Rusliee
The fraternity rushing season is nearly over md freshmen 
should have reduced the number of houses they wish to consid­
er to two or three. This is important since the rushing season 
is short and it is impossible to make a. satisfactory decision 
unless this procedure is followed. Freshmen should not hesitate 
to break dates with houses which they do not wish to consider. 
The fraternities expect the rushees to do so, for it is to the ad­
vantage of both the rushees -and the different fraternity groups 
for the' rushees know the members of. the two or three groups 
better and for the fraternities to learn more about the interests 
and ambitions of the rushees.
In selecting a. fraternity, the rusliee should bear in mind 
certain things which will help him to choose the right group. 
Following is a part of the contents of an editorial which ap­
peared in the last Tartan:
The selection of a fraternity should be done with care. 
Too often men are rushed headlong into a fraternity life which 
wi’ll later be disappointing. This glitter of shining trophies and 
the palatial fraternity house do not constitute the whole of 
fraternity life and they should not overshadow the ideals of 
fellowship and congeniality. In selecting a fraternity, one 
must realize that he is choosing a group with which he must live 
.for the rest of his school life. Their ideals and interests should 
be the same as his, for otherwise he will be unhappy.
There are several important things which should be consid­
ered in selecting a fraternity (some of the following were men-, 
tioned in Mr. Risedorph’s talk):
1. The congeniality of the members. Is it natural or ar­
tificial ?
2. The ideals and interests of the group.
3. The personality of the members.
j 4. The scholastic standing, denoting conditions for study- 
j » ing.
5. The financial stability of the house.
6. Is the group well rounded?
As Mr. Risedorpli put it, be not misled by gilt tassels. Se­
lect the fraternity with care, for fraternity life will be of great 
value to you if you choose the right group.
To the list should be added the important question,—do you 
i*eel at home in the different fraternity houses?
(Continued From Page One) 
taken seriously by the Victorian audience. *
An indication of the delightful quality of this melodrama can be gotten from the titles of the acts: Art I, The Dangers of a Great City; Act II, Kind Hearts are more a Coronets; Act II. O! What a Tangled' Web We Weave; Act Scene 1, The End of the Tether; Scene 2, In the Street; Scene 3, Escape from the Toils.
Music, songs, and dances will add to the brisk performance promised by the Department of Drama. Miss Bernice Austin has generously arranged the music) for the trio which she will direct at the piano, with Walter Derdeyn playing the cello and Ben Yaffe the violin. William Bales is pro­ducing the dances.
Vernon Crane is the assistant to the director. The cast of players as follows: Bob Brierly—Thomas Gorman, Edward Kelly; Jem Dalton—Franklin Heller. Wil- liem Roos; Hawkshaw — John Dawson, Don Gallagher; Melter Moss — William Bales, Emanuel Breakstone; Green Jones—Robert Gill, Raymond Neyliart; Mr. Gib­son—William Beal, Edward Pal lcot; Sam Willoughby—Margaret Goldberg, Helen Sisenwain; Malt- by—William Belirse, Harry Scho­field; First party—Walter Der­deyn, Edward Harmle; Second party — Charles Frost, ' William Haviland; Waiters—DeLisle Craw­ford, George McCalmon; Detec­tives—Boyd Crawford, Barry Mul­ligan; May Edwards — Harriet Weller, Jane Witmer; Emily St. Evremond — Irene Cowan, Mary 
Rowles; Mrs. Willoughby — Jean Dahl, Henrietta Siskin; Policemen Edwin Copper, Maynard Sam- sen; Lady guests—Janet Feather, Mary Hamilton, Audrey Kelley, 
Patti Littell.
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
“BUY AMERICAN and help end 
the depression,” would be a better 
slogan to help end this present 
maladjustment than any of numer­
ous cries for beer and liquor. The 
British government said “Buy 
British” and soon the entire Brit­
ish Empire was echoing with “Buy 
British.” When an entire nation 
is aroused to the point where it 
buys its home products before 
those of foreign competitors, the 
need for high tariff disappears. If 
the people of this country would 
see through our conditions of un­
employment they might perhaps 
see that it is better to pay a few 
cents more for an American made 
product than to save that amount 
by purchasing some imported com­
modity. Every cent spent in the 
United States for a product made 
at hon.e remains in this country 
and puts another man-back to 
work. With the new low levels 
reached by European currencies a 
barrage of foreign steel, rubber 
goods, milk and cotton, small toi­
let goods, fish''and numerous other 
items have been flung over our, 
so called, tariff wall. “Buy Amer­
ican” is a better protection for the 
American worker than a tariff wall 
built to the sky.
Figures Are Facts 
To prove our point, let us look 
over a few of the import figures 
for tiie past year. We find that 
370,000 tons of cheap foreign steel 
were literally dumped into the 
United States market in 1931. 
Most of this came via boats be­
longing to European countries. It 
takes approximately four days of 
one man’s labor to produce one 
ton of steel. You can easily see 
how tremendous tho loss was in 
this field alone. About $5,000,000 
worth of good United States cur­
rency was exchanged for Japanese 
and Czechoslavian rubber goods. 
Thus one might state many other 
examples with similar irritating 
data. Inasmuch as the British 
are buying. British and the French 
are buying French while they are 
also selling to —CHA we have no
other choice than to “BUY AMER­
ICAN.”
A Five Year Plan 
When communism is operating 
smoothly after the end of the five 
year plan, which incidentally is 
not so far off, the U. S. S. R. pre­
dicts that strikes, starvation and 
discontent among the • workers 
will disappear. However, like 
many other new plans, everything 
in it does not seem to click. The 
decline of agriculture and cattle 
breeding has arrived at the state 
where Stalin is very much worried 
about his source of food for his 
millions of comrade workers. The 
legalized selling by the peasants 
has led to almost . prohibitive 
prices. Consequently, several 
strikes in this “strike-proof” coun­
try were evident and were stopped 
before they had gained sufficient 
momentum to achieve their aim. 
Now that government can no long­
er control the prices of food they 
are proportionately higher than 
wages. With the termination of 
the five year plan not far off it is 
a question whether it will succeed 
or not. Arter it ends—what next 
More About Japan 
According to the Japanese press, 
the League of Nations has in hand 
much information which was ob 
tained from questionable sources 
and tends to incriminate the Ja­
panese government in its recent relationship with the Chinese gov ernment. They also claim that since the Lytton Report was pre­pared before the establishment of the state of M.anchulco, its value is overestimated. The men repre­senting Japan in the League re­quest that the case be considered in the light of what they claim to be the actual facts. Their strong­est claim is based on the fact that they did not consider the Chinese government as existent. What the outcome will be is debatable, 
repetition can be best avoided by definitely deciding the exact status of the Chinese government in or­der that Japan can no longer make the type of claims which she has presented before the League in re­
cent weeks. Now that the League of Nations has a chance to demon­strate its worth I wonder what the outcome will be.
DRAMA REVIEW
By ELMER KENYON
INTERCOLLEGIATE
CLIPS
According to a psychologist at he University of Buffalo, married persons are more nervous than 
college students.
Notwithstanding this, college students seem to be receiving every encouragement to marry. A professor at the University of Ore­gon says that all college students hohld be married. Academic standards would be heightened, he laims, because the time used to •base the wily “It” could be more profitable put to study.
The Arizona Wildcat further en­
courages the students by publish­ing the report that, according to lie Institute of Family Relations, 
one out of every six marriages ends in divorce, while only one in every seventy-five made in colleges 
crashes.
Those who have a feeling for 
the charm of Irish literature will 
need no urging to attend as many 
as possible of the plays to be offer­
ed in the Nixon Theater during 
the week of December 12 by the 
Irish Players. Those who have 
followed developments in the thea­
ter during the past thirty years 
know that the Abbey Theater in 
Dublin is regarded by many as the 
fountain head of the Little Thea­
ter movement in the English- 
speaking world, and that through 
its actors and dramatists it has 
become internationally famous.
Last year, the company visited America under concert and lyceurit managements and fared so well that the Dresent tour is largely over the theatrical circuit. Though the Nixon Theater is about four times as large as the Abbey, it ought not to be too large for all the people of these parts who pro­fess to have a sense of humor. It 
is to the Irish that humor is most often credited and, whether we like it or not, the best comedies in the English language have been written by Irishmen. So perhaps the point to stress here is not the unique quality of the naturalistic acting or of the vivid characteriza­tion accomplished by the play­
wrights (both rare delights) but the sheer fun of looking at life through merry Celtic eyes.
Monday Night, December 12; Also 
Saturday Matinee, December 17“The New Gossoon” is. the Irish version of the tilt between the younger generation and the older, with a shower of delightfully hap­py observations on how both youth and age are subjected to scrutiny by the mere fact of their living in 
Ireland. Few plays are more sim­ple, yet few plays are animated by more pungently individualized characters — a hint of the special gift of the author. George Sliiels. 
Tuesday Night, December 13; Also 
Friday, Night, December 16"The Far-off Hills” are the wishes that we imagine simply must be realized—only that when they can be, our zest has gone. Besides, says Lennox Robinson as he teases his characters, it is very embarrassing to admit that we no longer want what we had thought we wanted.
Wednesday Matinee, December 14“The White-Headed Boy,” al­though called by its author, Len­nox Robinson, on his last visit to Pittsburgh “a little thing which I wrote in a few weeks,” is more accurately to be included among the best dozen comedies in the language. Played in Pittsburgh at the Nixon many years ago during a Lenten week by many of the or­iginal Abbey players, it must be a bright memory to every one of the corporal’s guard who saw it.
Wednesday Night, December 14“Juno and the Paycock,” for all its wayward humors, tells of things in Dublin tenement life during the stressful days of 1922 “that do lie too deep for. tears." Here genius shines through in a drama of strange power, generat­ing the laugh that follows hard upon the catch in the throat and investing the story of June and
Now that we’ve really settled down and have had a chance to 
look over our registration records, find some interesting students entered in the various colleges. Briefly . . . Clyde W. Tombaugh, the young man who discovered the planet Pluto in 1930, liaS enrolled n the UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS . William Shakespeare has en­rolled in NOTRE DAME and will try his hand at football. Bill is a freshman candidate, hailing from Port Richmond, New York . . . THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA has a very, very young freshman. He is only 18 months old, and is enrolled in the University Nursery School . . . Probably the bestknown frosh entering any college this fall is Jackie Coogan, of fllm fame, who has enrolled at SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA UNIVER-
her Paycock with irony and pity. To all admirers of Sean O'Casey it is melancholy news that he is losing his eyesight.
Thursday Night, December 15“Spreading the News” is Lady Gregory’s sheer Irish fun with il­lustration of the truism suggested by the title. This play and “Rid­ers to the Sea” are favorites with little theaters all over America, but the spirit of Irish drama is as inclusively native to the Abbey Theater as the quality of Tchék­
hov is to the Moscow Art Theater.Saturday Night, December 17“Kathleen Ni Houlihan” by W. B. Yeats was presented at the opening performance in the Abbey Theater in 190-1. It is a beautiful work by one of the foremost liv­ing poets, who is now on a lecture tour in America and will speak in Pittsburgh on January 12 under the auspices of the Pittsburgh Morning Lecture Series.
Thursday Night, December 15; 
Also Saturday Night, December 17“The Playboy of the Western World,” the masterpiece of the greatest playwright the Abbey Theater has yet produced, J. M. 
Synge, is in perspective the Don Quixote of modern Ireland. Be-, cause it was first produced when the Irish people were sensitive to their problems of achieving free­dom, there was a riot in the thea­ter, an occasion invariably and in­vidiously recalled by those who do not understand Burke’s distinction between judging a people when they are at rest and composed and judging them when they are in the midst of a struggle. There is now no more popular piece in the Irish repertory.The top price for the engage­ment is $2.00, which should suc­ceed in turning the Nixon into a Donegal Fair.
LOCAL DRAMATIC ACTIVITIESDecember G—Elmer Kenyon will address the Congress of Clubs.December S—Elmer Kenyon will speak before the Woman’s Club of the East End Christian Church.December 5-0 — “The Valiant and Fore" will be given by the Langley High School Parent- Teachers’ Association.December G-13—“The Ticket of Leave Man” by Tom Taylor will be given under the direction of B. Men Payne. There will be special music, and the settings will be in the flamboyant style of the period.December 9 — The Stage and Play Society will present “Mary’s Ankle” by May Tully in the Twen­tieth Century Club.December 9—Miss Sydney Thomp­son will present dramatic interpre­tations before the students of Pennsylvania College for Women.December 9—A benefit perform­ance will be given by the Drama Department of the Congress of 
Women’s Clubs.December 11—The annual Na­tivity Play of the Pennsylvania College for Women will be given under the direction of Miss Vanda 
E. Kerst.December 12—Louis Anspaclier will address the Twentieth Cen­tury Club, his subject being "The 
Mob and the Movies.”December 13 — A. tea will be given under the auspices of the Drama League, for the Abbey 
Theater Players. _________
Boeiug School 
Of Aeronautics 
To Give Awards
Aeronautical scholarships total­ing $7,500 in tuition value are be­ing offered to college students by W. E. Boeing, according to the Boeing School of Aeronautics of Oakland, California. Four college undergraduates who submit the best essays on aeronautical sub­jects and who are able to meet necessary physical standards will receive flying and ground training at no tuition cost.The first prize is the W. E. Boe­ing Master Pilot Ground and Fly­ing Course. Ground school courses are open to winners of the other three places with the second award candidate also receiving flight instruction.The candidate must be a regular undergraduate in good standing. He must also pass certain phys­ical requirements. This competi­tion closes April 15, 1933, and es­say subjects must be aprpoved be­fore March 15, 1933. The candi­
date for the first award must pass the Department of Commerce transport pilot license examination ten days after awards are an­nounced. In previous years, stu­dents of many loading colleges have been awarded scholarships. The Boeing School of Aeronautics ranks as one of the leading avia­tion schools. With its fleet of training aircraft and expensive laboratory, equipment, the school gives complete train-ng for many branches of aviation.
Abbey Irish Players 
To Be Guests At Tea
Officers and directors of the Pittsburgh Drama League take pleasure in announcing that twelve of the Abbey Theater Irish Players will be the guests of the league at a tea to be held in the Hotel Schenley at half past three Tues­day afternoon, December 13. Since this will be the only opportunity of meeting these players during their stay here, members may ex­tend an invitation to their friends. Cover charge 50 cents. The com­mittee in charge consists of Miss Vanda E. Kerst, chairman, Mrs. Albert Pettit. Mrs. T. C. Clifford. 
M.rs. Henry II. Hanna, and Mrs. H. Allen Macliesney.
ALUMNI NEWS
CAPITOL DISTRICT CARNEGIE 
CLAN
The Capitol District Carnegie 
Clan reserved a special section in 
the Gold Room of the Wardman 
Park Hotel last Saturday night for 
Carnegie students and alumni who 
wished to attend dinner and a 
dance after the Carnegie-George­
town game.J. C. Evans, H. S. Thorn, Mar­garet Croisant, and Henry Green­mail comprised the committee.
The Carnegie Alumni now in Washington occupied a special sec-, tion at the game Saturday after­
noon.
LOST AND FOUND
The following articles have been left in. various buildings on the campus and their owners may ob­tain them at these places upon 
identification.
Lost and Found Office, base­ment Administration Hall: A pair 
of silver rimmed glasses; a string of pearls; a freshman’s black note­book; a set of Math Tables belong­ing to Stanley Grigas; a Plane- Trigonometry of John Schenk’s; two ladies’ umbrellas; a number of assorted gloves; cards and drivers 
license belonging to Nancy R. My- 
ler.
Skibo Inn: One black hat with veil; four pairs of gloves, one black lace, one tan kid, one black kid, dnd one white cloth; a locker 
key; and a drawing pen.The Hut: A notebook belonging 
to Charles Ackley, and two pairs 
of ladies’ gloves.
A Sure 
Foundation
GAH EW NdH fAMHAN WEDAifNMEA* 
EA CdMrd NE nDMUi yEDK finan­
rMfU MAiH­HAiHArH MR f RfvMAgR 
frrEDAN. TyRNHafNMr Having 
nHgDA CdMUH yED fKr MA rEUUHgr 
CMUU ­fvH UMH CAy WEK * fDrV 
KrfRWDU WDNDKH. GDK TfvMAgR 
IrrEDANR ­fy UMnHKfU MANHKHRN 
rEa­EDAiHi RHaMVfAADAUUy.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Pa.
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNI 
NEWS
The Margaret Morrison class of 1929 will hold an afternoon bridge on December 17 at the home of Dorothy Roy, 365 South Pacific avenue, Pittsburgh, at 2 p. m. 
Tickets will be fifty cents. Class dues of twenty-five cents will be payable at the meeting. Mrs. 
Henrietta Accipiter Parker is in charge of the tickets.
WOMEN’S CLAN OF PHILADEL­
PHIA
The second meeting of the Car­
negie Women’s Clan of Philadel­phia was held on November 12, 1932, at the home of Charlotte Wat­son Trautman, 933 Cornell avenue, Drexel Hill, Pa. An interesting feature of this meeting was Evelyn Held Burgis. A. 27, presentation of a model lesson demonstrating 
the technique of teaching piano playing to children. Mrs. Burgis 
is teaching in schools at Paoli and 
Berwyn, Pa.
Open house for clan members and their'children will be held on Friday afternoon, December 30, 
from 2 to 5, at the home of Helen Reed M,utch, 134 West Logan street, Germantown, Pa. The chil­
dren are invited to enjoy the unusual collection of electric trains 
which Dr. and Mrs. Mutch have collected for their daughter.
The next meeting of the clan 
will be held on December 10, 1932, at 2 p. m. at the home of Louise Irwin Hirsch, 722 Turner avenue, Drexel Hill. Pa. Alumni from Philadelphia and vicinity are urged 
to attend this meeting.
Clarence Darrow To 
Debate In Music Hall
—EANMADHi FKEa BfgE Y —~
days when he defended Loeb and Leopold In Chicago, John T. Scopes at Dayton, Tenn., the McNamara brothers in Los Angeles, and Hay­wood, Moyer and Pettlbono in Boise, Idaho.Debate reservations aro being made through A. H. Brockott at C. C. Mellor’s, 00-1 Wood streol. Prices aro 75 cents, $1.00 and $1.50, with not proceeds going to Christ­mas charity. Mail orders will bo filled when accompanied by stamp­ed, self-addressed envelope.
R. R. Mellon 
Will Lecture 
In Music Hall
Well -K n o w il Authprity 
To Speak December 8 
On “Darwinism”
TRAVEL RATES GIVEN AT "Y1
The Tartan Travel Buroau has. made arrangements to take care of all forms of tyavel reservations for students and faculty over the 
Christmas holidays.Reservations may bo mado at the “Y” office tomorrow and Fri­day of • this week and every day next week.
After G p. m. reservations may be made by calling Montrose 873-1.
LOST
PHI KAPPA PIN
RHNDKA NE
JACK FRISSE
55ev FEKnHR TNKHHN
Select Your Christmas Gifts at the
NEW WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FOKBES STREET
SPECIALS
DuPont 10-Piece Set.....................................................$9.50
Five-year Diary (lock and key).................................$1.29
Konson or Dunhill Lighters.........................................$4.50
% pound Edgeworth Tobacco Pouch........................ 98c
Five pound Chocolates (Delicious)..........................$1.49
WE CARRY REYMERS’, JOHNSTON’S, WHITMAN'S 
CANDY—CHRISTMAS WRAPPED
OTHER HOLIDAY SUGGESTIONS 
Kodaks Perfume Sets Compacts
Sheaffer’s Pen and Pencil Sets 
Writing Paper Cigars Cigarets
SEE OUR CHRISTMAS WINDOW DISPLAY FOR 
MORE SUGGESTIONS
Leave Your Shipping Troubles AVitli Us.
We Will Mail Your Holiday Box.
EUHfAEK—EW RAvrA nUErk EK JfvAArHr nKECA UDHir. I ­Da­ for AMU CMANHK AAi WEK AMU iDy RrKvMrr. JDMN EAH EW e0 drrMMUWMrUANW ­Da­ RNyUHR.
The Academy of Science and Art, a local intellectual organiza­tion founded for the purpose of ad­vancing science and .art In the Pittsburgh district, will present the sixtli of a series of fifteen lec­tures on Thursday evening, De­cember S, at S:15 in the Carnegie Music Hall. This lecture/ “Dar­winism in Experimental Bacterio­logy,’’ will be delivered and illus­trated by R. R. Mellon. M. D., a well-known authority on the sub­ject.
At the dawn of the present cen­tury the chemical elements and bacterial species were both re­garded as immutable. Dreams of the early alchemists regarding science have been realized to a great extent by modern physics; modern microbiology has performed a similar service for the so-called "mutionist." This newer knowledge of the essential nature of bacteria has yielded re­percussions, not unlike those char­acterizing the fundamental contro­versy in religion. It exemplifies the ancient issue between the static and dynamic points of view. This is of vital importance not only to the'theory of bacteriology, but to its limitless practical appli­cations in medicine and other realms, the highlights of which Mr. Mellon will discuss in his loc- ture.
The next in this series of lec­tures. “The Conflict in Manchuria,” will be given 011 December 15 by E. Carleton Baker, formerly Unit­ed’ States Consul General at Muk­
den.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
The Men’s Glee Club will pre­sent a concert of Sacred Music Friday evening at the Third .Pres­byterian Church, Fifth and South 
Neeley avenues.Students are cordially invited to 
attend this concert.
Did you ever hoar of a "Smiling" Marathon?’’ That’s the way the students at Muskingum familiarly refer to their Faculty Reception.
Mrs. Cornelia E. Trent, 
Carnegie postmistress since 
1922, died November 27, aft­
er a long Illness. Funeral 
services wore held Tuesday, 
Novomber 29, nnd Intorment 
was at Melrose, Pa. Mrs. 
Treat filled her position here 
very efficiently nnd effective­
ly, wns deeply Interested In 
work of the students.
English ÏVays
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
Word and phrase formation by analogy has produced as much faulty spelling, incorrect idiom, 
and bad grammar, as any other lan­guage process. Its usual inventive way is to create new terms or word combinations by imitating that which is in good usage. A writer or speaker, hunting for a word or 
phrase recognizes a likeness be­tween what ho knows to be correct and that which lie wishes to ex­press, and relying on that analogy, 
adapts what ho has at hand to a new use. For example, one of tlio accepted devices for forming ad­jectives denoting “relating to” or "tending to” is to add the suffix “ive.” Thus from "demonstrate” we have the adjective ‘demonstra­tive.” From “prevent” we have "preventive”—a word which was inadvertently designated in this col­
umn as barbarous, but which is far from that. What is barbarous and incorrect is "preventative”—seem­ingly coined by analogy with “dem­onstrative.”
In a like manner such an idiom as “different than,” commonly 
used by the less careful instead of "different from," is formed. For example, “The present depression is different from that of 1907. Evi­dently a dissimilarity is to be ex­
pressed, and by analogy one is in­clined to use the connective "than” 
to indicate the relation of the thoughts.
In grammar, too, analogy has 
give some peculiar turns to words, and phrases. One of the most common appears in the attempts of the illiterate to regularize the formation of the principal parts of verbs—“knew" becomes “knowed.” "saw” becomes” seed1.” The tab- 
personal possessive “its” is often, written “'it’s,’’ probably by analogy with the usual method of forming, tlvo possessive singular of nouns. Oddly enough one never sees "his”' with the apostrophe.Though the foregoing illustra­tions show the us« of analogy as; something to be avoided,, such a conclusion is not quite exact. It must be admitted that analogy makes for more flexibility and oase- In expression, especially among 
the illiterate or mentally Indolent. Occasionally their coinages by analogy make their way Into the language of tlio od'ucuited—"pre­ventative” and "different than” be­ing two that aro well: on fchelar way.
You Can’t Bo Popular . . . 
If You’re a Poor Dancer
WE WMUU LHArd YED IA ¡Y Y’KUvAU LHaMEAA—GAUy $5 
Ex­EKN IAMMNKDnNUEA
JACQUES SCHOOL or DANCING
FGRSET AND —RII. TLREELT MfyWUECHK wvy Y 
INM’MMUADEKH’ —UAHHGH—MEAify AAi FKMify EvHAMAg«o v:YY0 E’rUErk. 
TErMfU DDA rDA—VWMNd GKrdEHNKA—• LUMDKAMUAy aDU TDNMMKMUAy HvDAMAgSo 8:11(1 E’rUErk.
IA NdE YY rDKN EW LWUrUN fAi U’UNN
Incidents like this never
harm Nisley quality
because Nisleys two factories 
produce quality that can be 
compared only to high priced 
shoes and styles you 
know are right I
533 Liberty Avenue 
6016 Penn Avenue
First Aid
for unbroken joints
How to keep silt and sand from clogging tele­
phone cable ducts was one problem put up to 
engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories. No 
known method of joining sections of vitrified clay 
conduit effected a seepage-tight joint.
With scientific thoroughness, telephone men 
made many tests under service conditions. They 
devised a bandage of cheese-cloth, waterproof 
paper and mortar. Easily made and applied, this 
mortar bandage is tight against silt and sand. It 
prevents clogging, greatly simplifies the installation 
of new telephone cables and the removal of old ones.
Through solving such interesting problems,
Bell System men work steadily nearer to their goal 
— telephone service of highest possible efficiency.
BELL SYSTEM
I tILIGtVWIDE TYTLEM GF ItLERV—GttE—LIt. LELEBHGtET
