DRAMA DEPARTMENT ^ 
THREE MUSKETEERS 
LITTLE THEATER FRI.arniglE tartan
BASKET BALL 
CARNEGIE-PITT
PITT STADIUM FRIDAY
VOL. XXIV. No. 16
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 2!, 1930
CARNEGIE CAPERS DROP THREE GAMES 
BY CLOSE SCORES
Jinx, Not Opponents, Seems 
To J3e Defeating 
Basketeers
Entire Squad Battling
Face Covenanters Tonite 
At Gym—Pitt Fri.
At Stadium
Wednesday, January 15, the var­
sity basketball squad traveled to 
little Washington, where they were 
defeated by a superior W. & J- 
team, 33-24. The setback came as 
a surprise to the Plaid supporters, 
for the Presidents, without Stew 
Wilson, has failed to live up to 
the expectations of their followers. 
Wilson was the deciding factor in 
the game, however, and it was a 
brilliant team that faced Tech in 
the opener of the series.The game was bitterly fought 
from start to finish, and although 
Nease and Webster were in top 
form their rivals were successful in 
thwarting their plans and checking 
the rally when the Tartans were 
in a position to take the lead. W. 
& J. held the lead during most o; 
the game, but this is no indication 
of just how hard the two teams 
fought. With only five minutes 
left to play, the Red and Black 
team staged a rally which gave 
them enough of a lead to relieve 
the packed stands. They then 
changed their tactics and played a 
conservative game in which they 
gave their opponents no chance to 
overtake them.
Michigan State 
Friday, January 17, the Michi­
gan State passers were successful 
in defeating Carnegie Tech 35-23 
in a hard fought, but rather slop­
py contest. The Tartans had quite 
a bit of difficulty in getting their 
eye on the basket, and by narrow­
ly missing many shots, they lost 
their opportunities to win. Nease 
played his usual game, which 
means that lie followed the ball 
like a hawk, and struck fear in the 
hearts of the visitors every time 
he got his hands on the ball.
Michigan jumped into an early 
lead, which was never entirely re­
covered, by making a field goal 
and two fouls in the first minutes 
of play. Nease retaliated with a 
field goal and Merten followed the 
two pointer with a foul. Shortly 
(Continued on Page Two)
Prof. Dibble ’s New 
Data Book Ready 
For Publication
Day School Finals Will
Begin Friday, January 31
Final examinations for the 
first semester for all the day 
students at Carnegie Tech, will 
begin Friday, January 31. They 
will continue until Friday, Feb­ruary 7. The first semester 
ends Saturday, February 8, and 
the grades will be due at 6 
p. m. of the same day.On Monday, February 9, in­
terviews for the second semes­
ter will be held. At this time 
students will be given the op­portunity of talking over . their 
work with their department 
heads or advisers. At these in­
terviews, students can straight­
en out any conflicts that may 
occur in their schedule. These 
interviews also enable students 
entering Carnegie Tech to get 
some idea of the policies and 
aims of the school.Registration for day students 
will occur on February 11 and 
12. Students arc urged to reg­
ister on these days as admit­
tance to, class is withheld until 
the required fees have been 
paid. On February 13, at 8:30 
a. m., classes resume.
German Aviation 
Expert To Speak 
At Union Tonight
Dr. Ludwig Prandtl, prominent 
German aeronautical engineer, will 
give two public lectures on the 
flow of gases and fluids on Tues­
day and Wednesday nights at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
On the first night his subject will 
be “Flow of Gases at Velocities 
Above Those of Sound,” and on 
Wednesday night he will speak on 
“Molecular Theory of the Elastic 
I-Iystercsis of Plastic Flow.”
Dr. Prandtl is professor of phys­
ics, mechanics and thermodynam­
ics, and director of the Kaiser Wil­
helm Institute for Research in the 
Flow of Fluids at the University 
of Gottingen. The great aerody­
namic laboratory which he directs 
is widely known. The windtunncl 
this laboratory is being taken as 
a model throughout the world. The 
tunnel being constructed DRAM at 
the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy is patterned after the Got­
tingen type.
The engineer coincs to Pitts­
burgh from the University of. 
Michigan where he has given 
series of lectures. A dinner will 
be given in his honor tomorrow 
evening at the Faculty Club of 
‘the University of Pittsburgh.
STUDENT COUNCIL 
HEARS PLANS FUR 
SPRING FESTIVAL
Deans Green and Tarbell 
Approve Program and 
Pledge Support
Budget Is Revised
Debating Club of M.M.C.C. 
To Be Recognized 
By Council
A tentative program for the 
Spring Festival was presented by 
Mr. Ashwell, chairman of the com 
mittce, at the last meeting of 
Student Council on January 14. Mr. 
Ashwell stated- that the program 
had been presented to the Dean of 
Women and the Dean of Men for 
approval. Both Dean Green and 
Dean Tarbell have approved the 
program and have' pledged their 
support to a Spring Festival. They 
suggested that a letter be sent to 
the new members of the faculty 
asking for information concerning 
events ' on the programs of tli 
Spring Festivals in other schools. 
When this information is received, 
it is possible that several new 
features may be added to the pro 
gram which has already been ar­
ranged. The present program in­
cludes a fraternity migratory, fra­
ternity sweepstakes, and a High­
land Fling, a costume dancc to 
take the place of the Mardi Gras. 
The question of a queen to reign 
at the festivities is to be decided 
by the women of the College of I 
Fine Arts and of Margaret Mor­
rison. Three dates have been pro­
posed: May 2 and 3, May 9 and 
10, and May 16 and 17, but no 
definite date has been selected. It 
will, however, be held early in 
May so that it will not conflict 
with the senior period of examina­
tions.Mr. Owens, chairman of tlic Bud­
get Committee, presented a revised 
Song Book budget at this meet­
ing. The budget was revised due 
to the fact that the first set-up of 
the book.Avill be more expensive 
than it was first estimated. The 
added expense is due to the fact 
that the making of plates for music 
is an expensive process. After some 
(Continued on Page Two)
Doctor Baker Thinks College
Enrollment Tendency Favorable
The report that the percentage | 
of increase in the total enrollment | 
in American colleges is less now 
than in recent years is viewed with 
satisfaction rather than alarm by 
President Thomas S. Baker. Dr. 
Baker, in reviewing educational 
methods, deplores the fact that 
there is "too much thought of the 
formal side of education and not 
enough of consideration for sound 
knowledge as an end in itself.”
“The rapid expansion of the 
American universities after the war 
has not been an unmixed blessing 
to the intellectual life of our coun­
try.“Immediately after the war the 
numerical growth of the colleges 
was very rapid. There has been, however, a gradual and constant 
lessening of the pressure for ad­
mission to college from year to 
year, so that at present there are 
reasons for believing that the total 
number of students in the Ameri­
can universities will increase 
slowly.The causes of this halt in the 
demand for a college education 
are somewhat obscure. The great 
prospcritj: of the country would
seem to make it possible for more 
young men and young women to 
enjoy the advantages of a higher 
education. On the other hand, the 
restriction of immigration and -the 
decline in the birth rate of the 
upper and middle classes, from 
which would naturally be drawn 
the college-going group, arc work­
ing towards the limitation of stu­
dents.
“It has not been possible to se­
cure a sufficient number of well- 
trained and inspiring teachers to 
direct the flood of young people 
who have been pressing for admis­
sion to college. The administra­
tive officers have found themselves 
distracted from their chief business 
of encouraging high scholarship, 
and respect for sound knowledge, 
by the weight of their increased 
duties as executives. In this rush 
to college of the past decade, many 
young people have slipped past the 
academic portal whose preparation 
and abilities have not justified their 
presence in a college, and the 
graduation of these ill-prepared 
young people has cheapened the 
collegiate degree.”
PLAY BY DUMAS IS 
NEXT PRODUCTION 
OF DRAMA DEPT.
Y. M. Conference 
Will Open Soon At Buck Hill Falls, Pa.
Dr. Van Essen To 
Address Social Problems Club
Within the next few weeks, Prof.
S. E. Dibble, of the Heating and 
Vcutilating Department, will have 
completed another of his long se­
ries of engineering data books. The 
latest book is the “Standard Pipe 
Reference Book,” written for the 
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. 
The book contains one hundred 
pages of pipe data; revised tables 
of expansion and contraction, car­
rying capacities, and calculations 
of pipe sizes are a small part of 
the book. The revisions in these 
tables are all based on careful ex-, 
pcrimcntalion conducted in the 
heating and ventilating laboratory 
during the past few years. Includ­
ed in the volume is a complete 
list of all plumbing and heating 
symbols as used by architects in 
building plans. It contains un­
usual and rarely used symbols such 
as vacuum cleaner outlets, acid 
drains, and‘ hospital fixtures. The 
book also, contains a section on | 
the welding of pipe for low pres- ' 
sure steam systems.
Another important part of the 
book is an excerpt from the Min­
imum Requirement Code issued by 
the Department of Commerce. 
This codc which is made up of 
the best features of -plumbing 
codes throughout the country was 
part of Herbert Hoover’s standard­
ization program while he was Sec­
retary of Commerce. The galley 
proofs for the book arc now be­
ing edited and the book will be 
available to plumbing and heating 
contractors within a month.
The group of lectures which is 
part of the senior course in heat­
ing and ventilating has just been 
started. On January 9, the class 
was addressed by E. C. Evans of 
the Reed Air Filter Co., of Louis­
ville, ICy. He spoke on the sub­
ject of air cleaning and filtering 
and vividly brought out the rea­
son for the great amount of dirt 
in Pittsburgh’s air, and EPRAM to 
(Continued on Page Four)
AIR CORPS OPEN TO 
R. O. T. C. ALUMNI
DR. BARTO INTERVIEWS HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPALS
Dr. P. S., Barto, examiner of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
is now touring Ohio in an effort 
to obtain better co-operation be­
tween the high schools and the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
He, is conferring with high school 
principals throughout the state in 
his desire to aid such, schools in 
preparing their students to meet 
the Carnegie entrance require­
ments. Besides these discussions 
with ‘principals, he is also inter­
viewing those high school seniors 
who desire to. talk over their col­
lege careers and the choice of a 
suitable school.It is hoped that this plan of 
Dr. Barto’s will materially aid in 
(Continued on Page Two)
Rev. Lloyd to Speak
At Y. W. C. A. Dinner
The War Department desires 
that R. O. T. C. students of all 
arms and services be made ac­
quainted with the preferential 
status and eligibility for appoint 
mcn-t of R. O. . T. C. graduates 
as flying cadets, and that gradu­
ating students desiring such ap­
pointment be requested to submit 
applications.
The first class which this year’s 
R. O. T. C. graduates can enter 
as flying cadets for training at the 
Air Corps Training Center starts 
training July 1, 1930. Graduatin; 
students desiring to start with this 
class should submit applications 
immediately.Acceptance of appointment as 
flying cadets and the successful 
completion of the course at the 
Air Corps Training Center will 
qualify students for appointment as 
Second Lieutenants in the Air 
Corps Reserve with the privilege 
of taking examination for regular 
army appointment. Graduates of 
the Air Training Corps Center are 
required to serve on. extended -ac­
tive duty as Second Lieutenants 
with the Air Corps. In the event 
an R. O. T. C. graduate does not 
successfully complete the. course 
at the Air Corps. Training Cen­
ter, his eligibility for commission 
in the reserve of the arm or serv­
ice with which he was affiliated at 
college is in. no way prejudiced.
Six students and one faculty 
member from Carnegie Tech have; 
been invited to attend a confer­
ence that will be held by the Mid­
dle Atlantic Field Council of the 
National Council of Student Young 
Men’s Christian Association at the 
Inn, Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania, 
on February 14, 15 and 16. Mr. 
Davis, secretary of the Carnegie 
Tech VY. M. C. A., asks that any 
students who would be interested 
in attending the confcrcncc see him 
at once.
The Middle Atlantic Field Coun-I 
cil, in view of the fact that a very 
successful conference was held last 
/ear, is calling together a con­
clave this year to discuss “The 
Dynamics of Christian Living.” 
The theme was selected by the 
Council so that an effort would 
be made to understand what factor 
in the lives of -the most luminous 
Christians has given power and di­
rection. To determine this ques­
tion, the Council is inviting a very 
able and sympathetic group of lead­
ers- to attend the confcrcncc.
The conference will open Friday 
evening, February 14, at 6 o’clock, 
with a dinner. That evening, Satur­
day morning and evening, and Sun­
day morning, business meetings will 
be held and addresses delivered. 
Those who will speak arc Dr. 
Rolland H. Bainton, Dr. Reinh&ld 
Niebuhr, Dr. A. Bruce Curry, May­
nard Cassady and John Currie. 
After each address there will be 
an open forum and discussion, af­
fording all members, of the con­
ference an opportunity to discuss 
the lcctures. The committee in 
charge has arranged a program of 
sports and recreation for the dele­
gates on Saturday afternoon. The 
conference will close at fioon Sun­
day, February 16.
The Social Problems Club will 
hold a meeting in Room 106, Arts 
Building, on Tuesday, January 21 
,at . 12 o’clock. Dr. William Van 
Essen, who is well known 
Pittsburgh educational circles, will 
speak on “Vienna—An Experi­
ment.” A lecturer of note, he has 
spoken before various local civic 
and religious organizations, 
j The lecture will be illustrated by 
¡slides, which were all collected¡
personally. The title of his lecture 
is partially indicative, for .Vienna, 
is at present undergoing the exper­
iment of the housing problem. The 
city's method of meeting the situ­
ation and the ensuing social condi­
tions will be explained and illus­
trated in a most interesting and 
comprehensive manner. The city 
has erected hundreds of edifices— 
modern apartment houses, public 
baths and community theaters— 
many of which arc of modernistic 
design, conforming to the present- 
day tendency in art.
The Social Problems Club has sev­
eral interesting meetings planned 
for the near future, notably among 
them a talk on Russia, and an­
other on the English Liberal 
Party by a woman candidate for 
Parliament. The Club, which was 
organized at the beginning of the 
school year, was formed to aid 
the student ih a'dear conception 
of sociaj, political and economic 
problems in the outside world 
with whom they have little oppor­
tunity to comc in contact. Janet 
Adler is 'the president, Simon Fci- 
genbaum the sccrctary-treasurer, 
and Nancy Newman the chairman 
of the program committee.
The Club cordially invites all 
students interested in current' prob­
lems to- attend this meeting. All 
the meetings arc open to_visitors.
The Three Musketeers" To 
Open In Little Theatre 
On Jan. 24
E. W. Hickman, Director
Musical Selections From 
The Operetta Will 
Be Played
"The Three Musketeers,” a play 
by Alexander Dumas and pro­
duced by department of drama un­
der the direction of E. W. Hick­
man, will open on the evening of 
Friday, January 24, in the Little 
Theater.The production will be very col­
orful and quite elaborate. Several 
unusual features will be included, 
one of which is the use of the 
music from the recent musical 
comcdy' by the same name. Thi, 
music will be played on the organ 
during the course of the play. The 
cast of the play is extremely 
large, including almost the entire 
department. The male lead, D’Ar- 
tagnon, is to be taken by' Don 
Bonhoff; the female lead, Con­
stance, by Trcssic McCann and 
Gladys Abbaticchio. The parts 
of the three musketeers, Athos, 
Porthos and Aramis, arc to be 
portrayed by William Johns, Leo 
Daschbach and John J. Miller, re­
spectively. The remainder of the 
cast is Louis XIII, King of 
France, Albert Carles; Cardinal 
Richelieu, Clayton Thompson; 
George Villiers, the Duke of 
Buckingham, Arne Boeson; Anne 
of Austria, Sally Franklin and 
Olivia Kelly; and Lady de Winter, 
Katherine Sjiybold and Helen Ja­
cobs.There will be a number of folk 
and peasant dances during thc'| 
presentation." These arc being di­
rected by Miss Doris Portmann 
and will add to the life and gaiety 
of the performance.E. W. Hickman, who is direct­
ing the play, and also designing 
the sets, is a new member of the 
department, having just comc to 
Carnegie this semester. His first 
production here was “The. Wild 
(Continued on Page Two)
Theta Tau Initiation and 
Banquet to Be Held Sat.
Wednesday night, Thcta Tau 
will hold its fall initiation of 
the four men who were recently 
pledged. The informal initia­
tion will begin at 7 ' p. m. in 
Prof. Daniel’s offiqc, Room 53, 
Engineering Hall. Those to be 
initiated arc: H. R. Wall, M.
W. Snicdbcrg, C. K. Carter and 
H. R. Wcitzcl, juniors in the 
College of Engineering.
The formal initiation and 
banquet coincident with the ad­
mission of 'the new members, 
will take place at 5 p. m. Sat­
urday, at the Garden Tea Room 
on Center avenue. ^In addition 
a prominent engineer is being 
sccurcd to speak at the banquet.
Tentative plans are being 
made for the holding of a for 
mal dance by the members of 
this honorary fraternity some 
time in February.
WEEDE MEYER 
AND ORCHESTRA 
AT MEN’S PROM
Unique Costumes 
Will Characterize 
Plebe Promenade
Final Ticket Sale Begins 
Today and Continues 
To Dance
Jimmy Traa to Lead
Some Fraternities To 
Have Breakfasts 
After Dance
COMMITTEE ARRANGES 
BENEFIT PERFORMANCE
The regular monthly dinner 
meeting of the Y. W. C. A. will 
be held on Tuesday, January 21, 
at 6 o’clock in the Recreation hall 
of M. M. C. C. Rev. Ralph Waldo 
Lloyd, pastor of the Edgewood 
Presbyterian church for the last 
four years, will speak after the din­
ner.Rev. Lloyd is not only interest­
ed in young men and women, but 
has had much experience as a 
speaker before their organizations. 
Last summer Rev. Lloyd visited 
the Holy Land where lie had many 
interesting experiences. The com­
mittees in charge of this meeting 
is composed of . Ruth Brooks, Floy 
Sample and Zarclda Mazza.
The Student Industrial Commis­
sion held its January meeting at 
the Center Avenue Y. W. C. A. 
on January S. The Carnegie girls 
had charge of the research wcirk 
and the North Side factor}1- girls 
gave their experiences in garment 
making.
Original Compositions to
Be Given by Music Group
Scholarship Organization Elects 
New Officers at Last 
Meeting;
“SCARLET MASK” FOR 
1NTERFRAT. FORMAL
Best College Orchestra in the 
Country Has Been. 
Selected
PLAID MARKSMEN
WIN FIRST MATCH
The students of the music de­
partment will present a . program 
of original compositions next Fri­
day afternoon, January 24, at 3, 
in Room 150 of the Arts Building. 
The numbers which Will be given 
have been prepared by sopho­
mores, juniors and seniors in the 
Harmony and Counterpoint classes 
and will be presented by the stu­
dents themselves.
Among the compositions are vo­
cal, piano and violin solos, and 
these have already been heard and 
criticized by J. Vick O’Brien, head 
of the music department, and a 
committee of judges, 
will receive honorable mention.
At a recent meeting of the 
Women’s Scholarship Benefit Or­
ganization a report was made to 
Dean Tarbell, who had inquired 
by letter about the deposition of 
the seven* first semester scholar­
ships of fifty dollars each. These 
seven scholarships, which were 
awarded to Carnegie women who 
most deserved and needed them, 
were made possible by the amount 
of money raised last year.
The nominating committee then 
gave a report on the nominations 
for vice presidents and fpr treas­
urer. The «“.lection was held and 
the following were elected: Treas­
urer, Ruth Lieberman; vice presi­
dents, Agnes Harmon and Louise 
Gilbert.General discussion then followed 
as to this year’s benefit perform­
ance for the purpose of raising 
money for scholarships. Last year 
th: organization presented Helen 
Hays in “Coquette,” at the Alvin 
theater, and realized a consider­
able amount from the proceeds. 
Among others, Ann McKee sug­
gested that the benefit performance 
be either a Victor Herbert opera 
or a play produced by the drama 
department.
. - Nancy Sloan was appointed
e I chairman of the Patroness Com-
(Continued on page 2)
- _ greatest collegiate orchestra 
in the country has been obtained 
for the Interfraternity Formal. It 
is none other than Dick Wolfe 
and the “Scarlet 'Mask” music mak­
ers from Ohio State.. They have 
played at the leading college func­
tions throughout the country for 
the past four years and are well 
recommended and well known. The 
booking of such an unusually pop­
ular orchestra will make Interfra­
ternity Formal one of the best, if 
not the best, social affair of the 
school year and /will be far supcri 
or to anything that has been given 
at Carnegie Tech in past years.
The ballroom will be decorated 
with the banners from the different 
fraternities and this year special 
decoratio'ns arc being planned 
which will make the affair an even 
greater attraction than ever before. 
Exceptional favors of unusual at­
tractiveness have been selected and 
a different and more unique man­
ner of presenting them to each 
couple has been worked out.
The Intcrfratcrnity Formal will 
be held on February 21, 1930, in 
the main ballroom of the Schenley 
Hotel from ten till two. Arrange­
ments are being made to accom­
modate four hundred couple. The 
price of admission is five dollars.
(Continued on Page Two)
Carnegie’s Varsity, Riflers arc 
aiming at a bull’s eye season again 
this year if a good start is any in­
dication of what is to follow. The 
Skibos, with a tally of 1831 for 
four positions, topped the score of 
1820 by Kansas State Agricultural | 
College, 1816 turned in by West 
Virginia, 1748 by the University of 
Maine, and 1744 by the Connecticut 
Agricultural College. The matches 
were shot during, the week ending 
January 11. The results of the 
opposing: teams were not known, 
however, until the following week 
because of the time required for 
the reports to come by mail.
A comparison of the scores 
would indicate elose rivalry be­
tween several of - the teams which 
the shooters will meet again this 
season.But two teams, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology and the 
University of Nevada, are on the 
card for this week. The following 
two weeks will find the team idle 
so far as targets are concerned 
because of examinations.
The major matches will begin 
with the opening of the second 
semester when the National Rifle 
Association and the various league 
season will open.
The prospects for the season are 
promising not only because of the 
fine start but also because of the 
(Continued on Page Four)
The old Poverty Day tradition 
is to be observed this year in the 
form of a Plebe Prom, which will 
be held Tuesday, February 18. Ac­
cording to this tradition, which 
;was not carried on last year be­
cause regulations were not en­
forced after the Christmas holi­
days, all the plebes dress in cos­
tume and paiadc before the upper 
classmen. Awards arc given for 
the most elever and original cos- 
tumcs. A petition will be present­
ed to the Executive Committee of 
the school, to excuse the plebes 
from classes an hour before the 
program begins, to give them an 
opportunity to prepare for the pa­
rade. ‘
The plebes of the four schools 
will first parade before the upper 
classmen in their respective 
schools. The program of the Col-1 
leges of Industries and Engineer-1 
ing will be held in Room 218, En­
gineering Hall; that of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts in the Little 
Theater, and that of Margaret 
Morrison in the Margaret Mor­
rison Assembly Room. In each 
school the judges will sclcct the 
five plebes whose costumcs call,- 
forth the greatest applause from 
the audience.After judgment, if the weather 
permits, the plebes will promenade 
around the campus, and finally go 
to the gym, where the awards 
will be given to; the five students 
selected by the judges in the four 
schools. The awards consist of 
exemption cards from regulations 
for the rest of the year.
Weedc Meyer and his Victor 
Recording Orchestra have been en­
gaged by the Student Council 
through the Music Corporation of 
America to play for the Men’s 
Junior Prom. The orchestra is 
coming direct from the East, where 
it is just completing a run. They 
arc quite popular as a radio or­
chestra, broadcasting several times 
a week. In the last several seasons 
Wccde Meyer has played at the 
Wardman Park Hotel in Washing­
ton, D. C., the Oceanic Hotel at 
Wrightsvillc Beach, the Adolphus 
Hotel in Dallas, Texas, and at the 
Muchlebach Hotel in Kansas City. 
He has also played for a number 
bf prominent college functions in 
the East and Middle West. The 
orchestra is of eleven pieces.
Starting today the final tickets 
for the dancc will be on sale in the 
halls of the men’s colleges and at 
the “Y” office during the noon 
hours every school day. The white 
admission ticket may be obtained 
by exchanging the red preliminary 
ticket and $5 for it, or by paying 
the full price of $9. The ticket sale 
will continue until the date of the Prom, February 7.
The Promenade will be led by 
Jimmy Traa, President of the In­
dustries Junior Class. Last year 
the Junior Engineering President 
led the Prom and next year the 
Arts Junior President will have the honor.
The hours of the Junior Prom 
arc from 9 till 2. A number of 
the social fraternities arc having 
Prom Breakfasts at their houses at 
the conclusion of the dance. The 
dormitory girls attending the fra­
ternity breakfasts arc granted 4:30 permission.
One of Carnegie’s traditions de­
crees that floral decorations arc 
to be omitted from school func­
tions. In keeping with this tradi­
tion corsages will be out of order 
at the Men’s Junior Prom.
Printing Dept. Students
Hear Talk by W. J. Berg
SENIOR INFORMATION BLANKS DUE JAN. 28
Seniors who graduate in June 
arc urged once more to turn in 
their employment information 
blanks as quickly as posible. The 
Bureau of Recommendations has 
set January 28 as the deadline for 
having these blanks blue-printed. 
In other words, those seniors who 
wish to avail themselves of this 
privilege should lose no time in 
filling out these forms. This is 
the first year that the Bureau has 
carried the expense of having 
these blueprints made, and it is 
•felt that seniors should at least 
co-operate to the extent of having 
them in on time.Practically every company which 
visits Carnegie in quest of men 
make use of these blanks, and us­
ually ask for copies of the records 
(Continued on Page Four)
John H. Hitchcock
Awarded Fellowship
On Thursday afternoon, January 
16, Walter J. Berg, president of 
the Franklin Typothetae of Cin­
cinnati, addressed the students of' 
the printing department on “Fun­
damentals for Printers, the Pro­
moters of Progress.” Mr. Berg 
based his talk on the following 
five fundamental responsibilities of 
a printing executive: The duty lie
owes to himself, his customers, his 
employees, his competitors, his 
trade association.
Frank T. Denman, 1918 graduate 
of the Printing Department, now 
vicc-prcsidcnt of the William H. 
Denney Co., Inc., of New York 
City, has written an extremely in­
teresting article on the early work 
of the Printing Department. It 
appeared in the January issue of 
the American Printer under the 
caption, “Carnegie Tech and the 
Three-legged Stool.”
Professor Trinks-, head of the 
Department of Mechanical Engi­
neering, announces that a fellow­
ship has been awarded to John Ii. 
Hitchcock. Mr. Hitchcock is a 
graduate, class of 1925, of the 
Case School of Applied Science.
The work will consist in obtain­
ing'data, from various steel and 
rolling mills, ¦ upon the subject of 
pressure between rolls and the 
material passing between them. IL 
will also consist in looking up 
whatever information there is 
available on this subject.
The data will be correlated and 
charted. Any gaps left by the 
available information will be filled 
in by making tests.Enough funds have been collect­
ed to allow the work to continue 
for a year and a half. However 
it is expected that the work will 
require more time for completion.
(Continued on page 2)
President Baker 
Talks OverKDKA 
Wednesday Night
On Wednesday, January 22, Dr. 
Baker, president of Carnegie Tech, 
will speak over the radio at 7:30 
o’clock. Station KDKA, in con­
junction with the National Broad­
casting Company, has arranged a 
series of programs which will be 
devoted to the special industries 
such as the automobile industry, 
the construction industry, and the 
various other specialized industries 
which are prominent today. Dr. 
Baker’s talk next week will be 
about the coal industry.
On Friday, January 31, Dr. 
Baker plans to attend the annual 
meeting of the Association of Col­
lege Presidents of Pennsylvania, 
which will be held at the Penn 
Harris Hotel in Harrisburg.
Monday evening, February 3, Dr. 
Baker will be toastmaster at a 
dinner celebrating the fiftieth anni­
versary of the founding of the 
Engineers’ Society of Western 
Pennsylvania. Pierre Du Pont 
will be the principal speaker at 
this banquet.
Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secre­
tary of the Interior, who spoke at 
Carnegie Music Hall last Tuesday, 
was guest of hortor at a luncheon 
given by President Baker at the 
Duquesne Club on the fourteenth.
Professor Simpson of the De­
partment of Education and Psy­
chology has presented’ Dr. Baker 
with a reprint of his article on 
“The Effect of Specific Training 
on Ability to Read Historical Ma­
terials.” This article appeared in 
the Journal of Educational Re­
search for December.The recommendation of the Corn-/ 
mit'tec on Student Welfare that' 
Parents' Day be held the after­
noon and evening of April 25, 1930, 
in conjunction with the annual ex­
hibition, was approved by the Exe­
cutive Board at its meeting of 
January 7. Parents’ Day is an old 
tradition which was .formerly held 
during football season, and was 
callcd Pa-Ma Day.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE-CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1930
TICKET NO
An attempt to organize a clan 
of all of the Carnegie Alumni liv­
ing in and around Youngstown, 
Ohio, is now under way. The 
majority of cities and large towns 
in Carnegie vicinities, have such 
organizations and find that they 
are a great incentive toward cre­
ating interest in present Carnegie 
affairs. They also are a means of 
encouraging the college spirit and 
retaining old friendships of their 
Alma Mater.
Miss Dorothy Douglas, 548 West 
Evergreen avenue, Youngstown, 
Ohio, is in charge oi this organ- 
.¡¿ation. Any graduate who is in­
terested should write to her as 
Soon as possible at the above 
address. ,
AND 75 CENTS FOR 
PITT GAME FRIDAY 
AT STADIUMGEORGE H. MERR1N
NOW THAT ANOTHER WEEK has passed by and three 
more basketball games have been played, things may not seem 
so hot, as the expression goes. That nine-point loss to W. & J- 
and the victories of Michigan State and Grove City were not 
conducive to paroxysms of delight, but to those who look back 
upon former years they tend to show that basketball is truly 
on the upgrade at Carnegie. The work of Coach Hogan has 
made a decided improvement in the caliber of the team's play 
und with such an able and fighting captain as George Nease, 
we may look for better things.
The team will pass the half way mark of the schedule this 
week,,with the Geneva game tonight and the second tussle with 
Pitt on Friday. Needless to say, neither team will be a push­
over, especially those Passin* Panthers. Those neighbors , of 
ours would really like to win that game, and not bv a^ margin 
of but six points. Charlie just couldn’t be pleased with that 
last game, and we would be pleased to add our little snick to 
the snicker, which would materialize if he were disappointed on 
Friday.
? * * *
THE PLEBES HAVE BEEN marching right along these 
past ffew days, with class banquets and basketball victories oc­
cupying their time. In the matter of basketball, they have 
been decidedly successful, winning from W. & J., 20-21, from 
Waynesburg Reserves 27-22, and losing to Kiski by but one 
point, iiO-SS). It would seem as if there was good material on 
the squad for next year’s varsity. -There are several good men 
who are not playing because of scholastic difficulties, but who 
probably will be eligible during the second semester. GOOD 
WORK, PLEBES.
* * * *
WE HAVE HERE a schedule of the home basketball 
games and the number of the student tickets which will be 
necessary for admittance. Toi avoid confusion, cut it out and 
paste it on the wall above your desk:
Jan. 24—University of Pittsburgh (there)............No. 7&$.7o
Jan. 29—Westminster ........................................No. 8
• Feb. 8—Thiel ./...............................................................No. 9
Feb. 12—W. & J....................................................................No. 10
Feb. 15—Penn State ..........»................................... .No. 11
Fcb.,25—University of Pittsburgh .........................No. 13
Mar. 1—Geneva .............................................................No. 16
If you arc wondering what to do with tickets 12, 14 .¿tnd 
15, they arc for swimming meets. We'll announce the schedule 
later.
¥ * * *
WE SEE THAT Buddy Overend, our graduate manager of 
athletics, has other interests besides the destiny of athletics at 
Carnegie. v It seems as though Buddy swings a wicked driver 
and has been re-elected president of the Pittsburgh Field Club, 
one of those places where tired business men go to knock a 
little white ball o’er hill and dale. Long may he reign!
SWIMMING
There have been sixteen swim­
ming practices so far this season, 
dating from October 29 to January 
14, inclusive. The following girls 
who have attended one-half „of the 
total number of practices are elig­
ible for the team:
Practices Practices
Mitchell 12 Turner 9
Sample 10 Burrey 8
Engroff 9 Cooper 8
Garrahan 9 Kristofek 8
Preller 9 Steele 8
Betty Mitchell is the only girl 
eligible for three-fourths practice 
points; she has twelve practices 
to her credit. Runners-up who are
close to the eligibility mark are
as follows:
Practices
Brad stock-------------....------- 7
Gray -----------------------—— 7
Hopkins —______________— 7
I kola___r................................... 7
Wardell___________________ 6
It is worthwhile for these girls 
to attend more practices to be­
come eligible for practice points. 
Suzanne Knorr, swimming man­
ager, wishes to see in conference, 
after this Thursday’s practice, all 
girls who have attended halt of 
the practices.
the distances of each route soon 
so that Carnegie hikers will be 
able to use them to obtain their 
athletic points.
For® each ten miles of hiking 
each month, the hiker will receive 
ten athletic points. She may use 
the special routes offered by the 
board or she may. speak to the 
manager about a route of her own.
By this new system of awarding 
points 1 for individual hikes, the 
board hopes to encourage the 
healthy habit of frequent outdoor 
walking. As organized hikes are 
practically impossible to hold as 
frequently as would be desired, en­
ergetic walkers, of whom We have 
quite a few on our campus, may 
now be rewarded for their here­
tofore unrecognized enthusiasm.
On Saturday afternoon, Feb­
ruary 8, the Murgaret Morrison 
Carnegie Alumnae Association will 
hold a Scholarship and Endow­
ment Fund Bridge. The Bridge 
and Five Hundred Party will be 
held in the Hotel Schenley at 
2:30 p, m.
The Alumnae Association raises 
money for a scholarship every 
year, and also contributes to the 
Endowment Fund. .Since the tu­
ition has been raised to $300, the 
Scholarship Fund must be in­
creased. The success of this un­
dertaking rests with all of the 
graduates, and if attendance at 
this affair is impossible, the Com­
mittee would greatly • appreciate 
financial support.
Cheeks and reservations should 
bo mailed as soon as possible to 
Miss Helen Eyster, 1360 Singer 
Place, Wilkmsburg, Pa.
The committee in charge of this 
affair consists of Helen Eyster, ’26, 
chairman; Maigarel NutLail,.. ’27, 
vice-chairman; Mary Hulsman, ’26; 
Marguerite Spillman, '15; Jane C. 
Hart old, '12; Frances Keiser, '27; 
Jean Mather, '29, and Mary L. 
Stolzenbach, ’24.
The Bureau of Recommendations, 
in order to bring its files up to 
date this year, has sent out over 
6,000 personal information cards to 
all Engineering and Industries 
graduates. The Bureau urges the 
alumni to return these cards as 
promptly as possible, so as to elim­
inate the necessity of a second 
mailing which would cause addi­
tional expense and trouble.
Except for. letters, these cards 
are the only means of keeping in 
touch with the students after 
graduation, and if the Bureau can­
not secure adequate information 
concerning the alumni, they arc 
unable to fill many otherwise at­
tainable positions. Aside from its 
advantages for procuring employ­
ment, the bureau also furnishes in-' 
i&rmation to friends of alumni who 
wish to get in contact with t/tieir 
classmates.
Another mailing will shortly be 
seni to those who have failed to 
return the first cards, and the Bu­
reau earnestly requests that the 
second cards may not; be over­
looked. Since Carnegie’s employ­
ment service is of such great value 
cards will be sent out to gradu­
ates of Margaret Morrison and 
the Colleges oi Fine Arts in the 
near future.
RIFLE
The womCn’s rifle team fired a 
score of 483 against the Univer­
sity of Nevada last week. TH< 
high scorers were:
Doris Mather___*___ 99
Helen Whitehall ........... 97
Mary Crkgo —---------- 97
Ruth Brooks ------------- 95
Isobel Sheppard -------- 95
Floy Sample_________ 95
The match this Week is with the 
University of Kansas and the Mas­
sachusetts Agricultural College. 
The team firing this week will be 
on the Bulletin Board at the Rifle 
Range. Those who arc not on the 
•team should shoot to place. The 
rifle assignments will also be on 
the Range Bulletin Board.
HIKING
Imogene Sciiorcy, hiking man- 
ager, with the aid of . Suzanne 
Knorr, has offered five hiking 
Toutes convenient to Carnegie cam­
pus for the approval of the W. 
A. A-. board. They will compute
rule, class ring, two silver band 
settings, a small pearl-handled 
knife, two silk scarfs, various odd gloves, and a book of logarithmic 
tables.
They’also wish to announce that 
they have in their possession: Two 
note books belonging to C. F. 
Early, a Lcfox notebook belonging 
to Marks A. Lusevich; and a1 First 
Course in Algebra belonging to J. 
V. Boftrdman. They wish that the 
students mentioned above would 
call for these articles as soon as 
possible.
UNCLAIMED VALUABLES IN RECSt/ING DEP’T.
Institute Exhibition
Schedule Announced
Tile Department of Fine Arts ot 
the Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, 
announces the following Exhibi­
tion Schedule for 1930:
The Exhibition of Contemporary 
American' Prints will continue in 
the Balcony, Hall of Sculpture, 
until January 25. Paintings from 
the collection of W. S. Stim- 
mel will be shown from Janu­
ary 23 to . March 9 in the second 
floor galleries. From January 30 to
The Receiving Department, which 
is Carnegie’s Lost and Found De­
partment, located in the key room, 
next to the post office, have many 
lost articles in their possession 
which they wish the students 
would call for.
Among the many lost things in 
the office arc: A diamond ring,
spectacles, chain .with a knife and 
locket, fountain pen, pocket slide
Here you see a likeness of Charles Hyatt, Sports Editor of the Pitt Weekly, and the All-American forward of the Golden Panther quintet. That is enough publicity for any one man, but if Jimmy Leonard keeps up his good work, Chawley will receive more, although it will probably not be so favorable.
COMMITTEE ARRANGES 
(Continued from page 1) 
mittce, together with Naomi Bit- 
zer, Betty Frost and Mary Hall; 
and Eleanore Arter, chairman, Vir­
ginia Kerr and members of the 
Tartan staff will compose the Pubr 
licity Committee. A candy com­
mittee consisting of Virginia Beam, 
chairman, Ethel Long and Lois 
McGregor, has been appointed. 
However, this year, as in other 
years, members of Mortar Board 
and Cwcns arc planning to usher 
at the performance and to sell 
candy during intermissions. The
forth; .first Carnegie would lead 
onljr to be overtaken and then 
would regain the lead. It contin­
ued like this the ciitire first half, 
at the end of which the Plaid team 
was on the short end of a 26-25 
score.
This lead was increased to four 
points shortly after the second half 
opened, but was soon cut to two 
points after High caged one of his 
long ones. Leonard added two 
more points, hut this stirred the 
visitors and they started a barrage 
which enrried them way out it» 
front. Nease continued his good 
shooting and accounted for a cpu- 
plo more, just to keep Grove Cit3r 
from becoming too confident, but 
the big rangy team already had 
the game sewed up. Just before 
the final whistle blew, Jimmy Traa, 
who went in for Leonard, made a 
beautiful throw for a field goal 
after eluding at least two members 
of the visiting team. Soon after, 
the whistle sounded with the final 
scoro 57-46 in favor of Grove City.
CARNEGIE CAGERSSTUDENT COUNCILMarch 9, some drawings by Pierre 
Bourdelle will be displayed in the 
Balcony, Hall of Sculpture. On the 
second floor galleries, the,paintings 
of Edward Bruce will be on ex­
hibit from February 6 to March 9. 
From February 13 to Marc’.. 13 the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh are 
scheduled to occupy the third 
floor galleries. The Photographic 
Salon on the third floor galleries 
will be opened to the public from 
March 20 to April 20.
(Continued from Page One) after this Herder and Grove outma- 
ncuvcrefl their Plaid opponents and 
were successful in caging three 
straight field goals. From .this point 
on the scoring was about even and 
State led at the half way mark, 
17-12.
itfjic visitors started the aeconil 
half with a rush which netted 
them five points, After a brief 
pause Tech staged a come-back 
which was short-lived, for Michi­
gan again spurted, putting them 18 
point» In the lead. At this , stage 
of the game, Merten, Carnegie's 
lanky center, went on a scoring 
rampage and before he could be 
checked he had scored six points 
by a combination of field goals 
and foul9. Jimmy Leonard’s one 
pointer was the only other con­
tribution to the scoring 'column 
and the game ended 35*23.
(Continued from Pafjc One) discussion and explanation, a mo­
tion was carried approving the bud­
get with the provision that the 
business manager's commission be 
on this year's sales only.
Ahptljcr report was given to 
Council by Mr. Becker. He re­
ported that, he had investigated the 
history ai\d activities of the De­
bating Club and recommended that 
the club be recognized by Coun­
cil, A motion was carried approv­
ing his recommendation. The De­
bating Club was formed last May 
f)y the girls of Margaret Morrison, 
.•uni in T1 I'¦supporting. The mem­
bership is limited to 25, and -at the 
present time there are 17 members 
on the roll.
At 'this meeting it was brought 
t• * the attention of Student Coun­
cil that the, date set for the com­
bined Senior Ball conflicts with 
eharetle for senior architects, mak­
ing it impossible for them to at­tend,
FRESHMAN SCHEDULE
January 21 Geneva._January 24 Pitt _._______.Ill—'...—'—February 12 Washington & Jefferson.
February 21 Kiski --------------------------February 25 Pitt .....------------1-------------March 1 Geneva ______1--.----------
-Away..„AwayHomeAway.Home'.Home
.choice of a play will be left to 
Ann McKee and Nancy Newman. 
The remaining chairmen and their 
committees are, as follows: Poster, 
Helen Tuttle, chairman, and Edith 
Uslcy; Campus Ticket Sale.
Special for students:
Open ’til 2 A. M. , :
Fridays and =
Saturdays \Æ p"
DR. BARTO INTERVIEWSGrove City
Saturday, January 18, the Tartan 
quintet was defeated by the fast 
stepping Grove City team, 57-46. 
Tills was the third game In four 
days and the strain proved to be 
too much to allow the Plaid pass­
ers to continue the fast pace at j 
which they traveled in the first 
half. Nease again illustrated he 
should rank with the great basket 
ball artists of the country by scor­
ing a total of 20 points during the 
contest. Merten, rangy center, and 
Jimmy Traa, a substitute, did some 
unusually fine work while they 
were in there, while Burke and 
Reeves worked best for the visi­tors.
Grove City drew first blood, 
when Paplcnovic dropped in two 
field goals. Carnegie came back 
with three more double deckers 
and a foul and for a brief period 
enjoyed a lead of three points. 
The score see-sawed back and
(Continued from Page One) 
reducing the number of students 
who enter Carnegie every year 
burdened with entrance .conditions 
which have lo be made up before 
the year is out.
PLAY BY DUMAS 
(Continued from Page One) Duek," by Hendrik Ibsen, which 
was produced during November. 
He is a graduate of Allegheny 
College and ah honor graduate of 
the American Academy of Dram­
atic Art. Previous to his position 
at Carnegie he was head of the 
department of drama at Stephen 
College, Columbia, Missouri. He 
har» appeared in numerous pro­
fessional productions, among 
which was II. B. Warner’s "Bull- 
Dog Drummond."
After the fraternity dancc you are 
always certain to meet the 
rest of the crowd
¦SCARLET MASK”EOTH’S GRILL(Continued from Page-One)
Joe Herbst is the chairman of 
the ball and the members of the 
committee in charge are Bill Bry­
ant, Bud Murray, Barney Brooni- 
hall and Jim Ashwell.
Enright Theater Building ^ East Liberty
“A truly collegiate institution”
AUTHORIZED SERVICEJOHN H. HITCHCOCK
(Continued from Page One)
Mr. Hitchcock reported for work 
on Monday, January 20. In addi­
tion to his research work lie will 
take such graduate work as lie can 
obtain in the second semester.
A Good Place for Tech Men
Cicero Barber Shop
Oakland’s Largest & Finest»lie’ll 
do you 
good.•Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
“The Oakland Bank”
and a Telephone man
brought them together
You realize the wide, wide gulf that separates Bong-plugging from 
singing when you hear Ruth Etting sing!
This new Columbia record of hera gives you two popular hits, 
colored with just the right tints of pep, sweetness, and melody—and 
that something else that is Ruth Etting’a charm.
Sample Ruth’s latest today, Jand hear these two fine steppers a9 
well 4 . .
Record No. 2073-D, lO-fnc/i, 75c
EN ^H UASHK (from Motion Picture “Devil ^May Curo") I VocaU
USLPIF Fon^ .BH UASRCPIHG (from Motion / Rulh EttiucPicture “Spring la Here") 1
Record No. 2066-D, Wnch, 75c 
Titk -BHYPPHSKV- -HSHIAKH OXR oRD Hear Me ) Walts Calling You) (from Motion Picture “Devil > Ben Selvin and His May Caro”) ) Orchestra
UBASTPIF (from Motion Picture \ Fox Trot ‘‘Devil May Caro”) / Ben Selvin and His Orchestra
Rcoord No. 2067-D, KMncJ», 75c 
1BL Do 6,J -DYYRGH (from “Heads Up!") \ Fox Trots 
2L 2AI EG RI .BH 2ANH (from “Heads Up!” f The Knickerbockers
Dependable
For College parties and for Class and Fraternity affairs our service t* de­pendable and reasonably priced.
We are glad to furnish the Pastries, Ice Creams, Candies, etc.. for affairs that don’t require cater­ing.
We Rent Equipment 
Tables, and chairs with covers, nlso linens, china, silver and glassware rented in any quantity. 
Try our noon and evening lunches-when in E. Liberty
Store Hours:8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
In the Bell System re- 
searc^ and development 
® are not conf'necl t0 eng'_ neering laboratory. These 
methods are applied also to 
the commercial side of the 
business, to make telephone service more 
and more useful.
An example is the classified telephone di­
rectory, with its convenient listings by trade
and profession, for quick and easy reference.
Or take this other use of the classified 
directory. Telephone men analyzed advertis­
ing and merchandising. They saw that pros­
pective purchasers of advertised products 
often did not know where to buy them.They 
developed a plan for listing these dealers 
under their brand name in local * ‘Where to 
Buy It” directories — a genuine service to 
buyer and seller alike.
Capital $300,000.00 Surplus $500,000.00 Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERSC. B. Aylesworth.R. J. Miller-,____O. C. Young____F. W. Cotton____C. W. Eh ni______Adam Roscoe __
---------President-Vice President-------{¿Treasure»Asst. Treasurer---------Secretary-Asst. Secretary
BELL SYSTEMC. B. Aylesworth James B. Clark lohn Dimling 
Barney Dreyfuss Ï. Rogers Flannery
b. H. Gethoefer C. H. Kerr T. O. Miller R. T. Miller John G. Pew
nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
A. B. Sheets
Columbia ÄRecordsVìva * tonal Recording " The Records without Scratch
Member Federal Reserve System

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE TWREETÜESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1930
Œbe Carnegie JMaiò
SECOND SEMESTER
NIGHT COLLEGE BEGINS
JANUARY 27, 1930
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
Karrenbauer, P, J„ Kanick, C. V., Kasiak, E. G., Kecks, Peter J., Kcil Henry E., Jr., Kelly, Thomas. Kent, A. II., Kerns, Walter, Killoh, William, Kistler, J. C., Kistler, Wil­liam, Klein, E. C., Kramer, Arnold, 
Krupensky, Frank, Kurstcdt, Wil­liam J., Kurtz, George F., Kusing, Frank A.
Lindberg, A. C., Linton, Sara G., Landis, James F., Lang, Herman T., Lang, William H., Lange, Ar- ihur C., Lanyi, Edward V.. LaRac co, Harry L., Lefcvrc, Ernest A.. Lcindecker, James J., Lolak, John W.. Leonard, John L., Leonard, William D., Leone, Otto J., Letlti, Stanley, Lindberg, Carl G., Lind­ner, Ernest W., Lindt, John S, Lloyd, Russell M., Logiodice, Har­ry R., Los, Stanley, Loucks, Jamc* E, Lough, John W., Loughran, Thomas J., Louttil, G. Edward, Lowden, Albert, Lukehärt, Frank J., Lutman, Margaret, Lytle, Frank R., Levine, Frank, Lohr, Robert W., Lorentz, Edmund E., Lowe, W. H.. Luck, Arthur W., Lang, Charles J.. Jr., Langer,. Walte, Lch, John H. Leonard, R. W., Lewis, Fred J., Logiodice, Charles, Longood, R. B., Lordo, W. D., Loveland, F. A., Lowndeo, T. H., Loxterman, R. J., Lucas, John E. Lundefh Edward S., Lunson, Robert, Lewis, Sterling Monroe.
Mangold, Helen E., Marsalck, Mary, Mawhinney, Lloyd, Mayers, Evelyn,Miclke, Marie, iMoise, E. N., Motz, J. C. Fisher, Mullen, Charles, Mac Clären, George W., MacVoigh, James J., Mader, Pete, Maguire, Edward, Makowski, Edward, Ma- loy, Francis, Marian, Alfred, Marr, Regis E., Marshall, William J., Martin, Robert E., Martone, Attilio A., Martonik, Martin, Maturkamch, Arthur M., Mauro, Henry E., Mayo, Karl, Mazzoccoli, Tony, Mcckcy, Clyde, Mcinert, William J., Mcisel. Bernard F., Merkel, Thomas F., Metro, Homer J., Meyer, Charles E., Meyer, Joseph C., Mczey, Eu­gene, Miller, John A., Miller, John R., Miller, Paul W., Minnotte, Charles F., Mixie, Vincent P., Mo- happ, Louis, Molyneaux, James M., Monhat, • Florence, Monks, Wilbur K., Montag, T. W., Moore, T. Hey­ward, Moran, Martin T., Morgan Harold D., Moss, M. Samuel, Mow cry, J. C., Mulholland, Edward P., Mullin, James F., Mullln, William V., Murphy, J. H., Murray, Carl M., Murrin, Albert, Mushinsky, Al­bert, MaccCcvic, Edward G., Male­vich, Vladimir, Mathias, Wilber C., McClelland, George R., McConnell,
Additional Donations 
To Endowment Fund
Post Holiday Dance 
Very Successful Party
The Case Of The 
Students vs. The Depis.
When the Plaid first undertook 
to publish the names of those
night students who contributed
their Breakage Deposit Refund last 
Vear to the Endowment Fund, no 
difficulty was anticipated in carry­
ing the program through to a 
finish and all contributions ac­
knowledged. However, on account 
of conditions beyond our control 
we were interrupted several times 
in following through consecutively 
the complete list. A new start 
was made last week, and we hope 
that there will be no interruption 
from now on until the complete 
list is published and due recogni­
tion given to those night students 
who aided in this wonderful mani­
festation of loyalty to “Carnegie 
Tech.”
Up to the present time students 
whose names commenced with A to K have been published, in the 
folio,'wing list w^e will resume and 
continue through subsequent issues 
of the Plaid.
Kobunricky, George R., Koch, Emma M., Koehler, M. L., Kolu- ges, Joseph C., Komptish, Amelia V., Konkol, Alexander, ICotchwara, Louis J., Kozar, Edward, Krahulik, Anthony, Kress, William J., ICrojn, Sylvester K., Kudla, George* Ku- lesz, James J., Kunkle, LawrenceG., Kenney, T. C., Kerr, Nathan F., Klingensmith, Sam, Ivocsis, Paul, Jr., Ku2ma, Jos., Kalcie Emcrie, Kalcis, Stan, Kameric, William,
at the conclusion that there must 
be something to them when they 
draw such a large turnout. The 
next function of the Council will 
be the Washington's Birthday 
dance, February 22, and you better 
reserve this date because there will 
be a special feature at this affair.
It would not be fair if the Plaid 
let this opportunity pass without 
publicly thanking all those night 
students who helped to make the 
Post Holiday Dance the success it 
was, and therefore takes this occa­
sion of expressing appreciation for 
the enjoyment made possible by 
those night students wlio worked 
tirelessly for it success.
It would be a difficult task to 
take one „single item of the Post 
Holiday Dance, recently held by 
the Night Student Council, and sin­
gle it out beyond any other fea­
ture. The whole affair w-as an ex­
ample of what can be done when 
there is a will.To begin with, the committee 
was handicapped in many ways. 
The auditorium, in the first place, 
is not the very best location for a 
dance, and it takes some ingenuity 
to transform this rather cold build­
ing into a. sym^liony of color, and 
mirth. In the next place, it re­
quires time to carry out any pro­
gram, whether it be a very simple 
one or a more extensive one. The 
night students are not burdened 
with any too much time and it is 
a marvel when one stops to consid­
er what has been accomplished.
Those faithful members of the 
committee met all obstacles thrown 
in their way and the result was a 
success that wrould be hard to 
match anywhere and any time.
Upon entering the auditorium 
you were greeted with a program 
which was the acme of >p<?rfcction 
of the printers’ art, both as to 
style and makeup, and modernistic, 
too. A glance around disclosed a 
riot of color for the auditorium 
was enveloped in a canopy of ball­
rooms and festoons of lanterns. 
You forget that this was the same 
arena and scene of many a hard 
fought contest. In is difficult to 
describe what a transformation wras 
made in the few short hours that 
must have been at the disposal of 
the workers.
We are very happy and glad to 
announce that our dean, Miss 
Mary Watson Green, was present,
With tile advent of this week, 
the first semester Exams arrived 
with bells on. Also wearing hob­
nailed boots wherewith to walk all 
over us. While not a few of us 
feel prepared for a very ultra good 
walking on, some of us took the 
trouble during the semester to don 
a metaphorical suit of armor. These 
gentlemen, "vir magni imperiti bel­
li,” are sitting back with a compla­
cent grin on their Countenances, 
and regarding the balance of us 
with pity, or what have you?
But we that are not in the ar­
mored class are not going to give 
up without a struggle. Since the 
Depts. have the Heavy Artillery, 
we will depend on swift, Napoleon­
ic stratagems, such as cramming 
in, in an attempt to bolster up our 
own Hindenburg Line.
The rules and regulations of the 
war will be the same as usual. Se­
cret servicc men arc prohibited. 
Dangerous weakons, as slide-rulcs, 
in the ’hands of incompetents, are 
frowned upon. Cavalry (in the 
form of ponies) is distinctly dis­
tasteful, and is apt to lead to com­
plete rout, and more ,or less dis­
honor.
After getting the Exam down, 
kicking, biting and gouging are to 
be particularly warned against, as 
a neat paper is desirable. If the 
Exam gets you down, . bicarbonate 
of soda et. al. can be obtained 
from the pharmacy on the corner 
of Forbes and Woodlawn. If the 
battle is a draw', we want to fall 
on each other's shoulders and weep 
hot tears of joy ( ) or sorrow ( ) 
at not having done better ( ) or 
worse ( ). Vote one in each pair 
of parentheses.
In a more serious vein, however, 
the facilities for a retake in case of 
failure have been expanded in the 
various sections, so that in quite a 
few sections the work of the first 
semester is being offered in the 
second. Most of these courses' can 
then be completed by taking the 
second semester work during the 
supplementary term. With these 
possibilities of a come-back, there 
is no sense in dropping a course 
because of a first semester failure.
While we all get more or less 
discouraged when a little F-or R 
creeps up and throws us for a loss, 
we may as well make, the most of 
it and attempt to retake the work 
as outlined above. This retake will 
prevent irregularities in our future 
schedules, which same irregularities 
are very undesirable; especially to 
aspirants to a' certificate or a de­
gree.
Since_.it is too late to devise 
trick ways and means to circum-
H. E. Mauro, Night Editor; 
D. E. South, Night 
Business Manager
President Sansonetti of the Night 
Student Council recently made the 
yearly appointment of the Night 
Thistle Staff. The Thistle is. as 
you knowr, the all-Carnegie publi­
cation or year book which the jun­
ior students compile as a class his­
tory and souvenir of the closing 
year for the senior students.
The night student has the sanie 
vital interest in this publication as 
the day student and considerable 
spread is secured by the Night 
Student Council in order that this 
group be well represented.
Mr. Henry E. Mauro, of the 
Night College of- Fine Arts, is ap­
pointed tile Night Editor, and Mr. 
David E. South of the Night Col­
lege of Industries is appointed the 
Night Business Manager. Mr. 
Matiro’s ability as an artist has 
been proven many times, and one 
needs only to look at the last 
program of the Post Holiday 
dance to verify this fact. Mr. 
South has also proven his worth 
as a successful business manager, 
having aided materially in the suc­
cess which we had last year in 
disposing of quite a number of 
Thistles to the night students. The 
choices are excellent ones, and we 
are assured this year of a very suc­
cessful section in the Thistle. It 
remains for the night students to 
support these two men in putting 
our end over.
and added ih no small way to the 
success of the party. Mr. and Mrs. 
Shaffer and Mr. and Mrs. Sterling 
graced the occasion by their prés­
ense also, as our guests.
The Post Holiday Dance was the 
second function of the Night Stu­
dent Council, and the second affair 
held in the auditorium of the men’s 
gymnasium. The popularity of 
these gatherings can only be judg­
ed by the attendance, and one 
needs to attend but one to arrive
The Post Holiday Dance of the 
Night Student Council is a thing 
of the past now, but it leaves its 
memories, and big ones, too. My 
curiosity, a trait which seems to 
become deeper and deeper imbed­
ded as the weeks go by, impelled 
me to attend this affair, arid was 
I surprised, nothing but. You have 
to hand it to the night students 
(I will throw my chest out, too, 
for am I not one also, the same 
as my big brother Sylves.) for they 
Burely do everything just right. 
Did I see. balloons, yes, and mil­
lions of them, too. Suppose they 
chartered the Philadelphia Com­
pany for all their excess gas to 
blow them up. They surely must 
have had a big blowing up party 
to get so many rubber spheres in­
flated. All colors of the rainbow 
were displayed and a beautiful ef­
fect was produced. From now on 
I swear not to miss any more of 
these affairs, and you better do 
likewise, because if you don’t, you 
will surely miss a lot of enjoy­
ment.
I am wondering how many of 
those night students who register­
ed the first part of the semester 
are still in the going. From the 
various lines at registration time 
you would get the impression that 
all of Pittsburgh was school-mind­
ed and that all were going to Car­
negie Tech. I still see large 
crowds wending their way over 
the “Cut” and the various other 
approaches to the Colleges and 
have come to the conclusion that 
a goodly number are still sticking 
it out. It’s a hard grind, and they 
should give a leather medal or 
something just to commemorate 
our efforts, night after night; week 
after week, and month after month. 
And this brings us up to another 
Huestion.First Semester Examinations. 
Well, they surely are upon us in 
full force, and oh! what a strain 
we are under. We try to look 
wise, and at least let the Profs, 
htfer that we do know something 
even if our papers disclose the re­
verse. If ever I have a chance to 
frote for Prohibition of Exams. I 
will certainly sign on the dotted 
line for the elimination of \this 
college past-time (I mean on the 
part of the Profs.), at least that is 
Vhe impression we night students 
get of the whole affair. Exams-, 
aren’t any good, never w’ere, and 
never will be. Now don’t all agree 
with me, because if you do, well 
then we won’t have anything, to 
argue about. At all events the re­
sults will soon be know-n, and
Paint — Hardware — Electric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923 Iroquois Block
Of East 
Liberty
Extends to TECH STUDENTS a Cordial Invitation to Use 
CANDYLAND As Their Home.
Geo. W. Bolanis. 
We Cater Especially to Fraternal Occasions.
Lunches — Candy — Refreshment — Pastry
CANDYLAND
TECH STUDENTS 
For the Coming Junior Prom 
R-E-N-T
A SUPREME STYLE TUXEDO SUIT'AND 
ACCESSORIES FROM US 
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT GO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phono Night Phono
ATLANTIC 9595 LAFAYETTE 4791-R
vent our persecutors as the Exans 
are already upon us, we can at 
least be good generals by provid­
ing for an orderly retreat prepara­
tory to another drive. Lots of 
luck. (We’ll need it.)
H. E. M.
UNIVERSITY 
RESTAURANTA Course in 
Handling Money
The formation of a banking connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.The experience in handling' money, the friendly advicc 
of specialists trained to meet every type of financial prob­lem, will enable you to make the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help you to success in whatever line you may follow.
Newly Equipped. Up-to-date cooking 
4605 Forbes Street, Near Craig
Let’s Go To 
TECM
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS 
Comer Forbes and Craig 
Streets
A. R. NELSON, Testing Engineer, 
Iowa State College, !25
those of us who arc successful can 
well afford to assume the superior 
air, for have we not accomplished 
something; for the others_(and this 
may include me) all I can say is, 
let’s hope for better luck next time, 
but don’t give iip the ship.
H. R. MICHEL, 
Engineer of Purchases. 
Montana State College. 20
H. B. MAYNARD, 
Superintendent of Production, Cornell, '23
J. A. WILSON, 
Headquarters Sales, Drexel Institute,’25
TMTTOOV ITS THE EIPKESS. WILL YOU YIELD OR BE (¡HOUND BENEATH THEWHIMS?” BMRiR IlfliLElinr
J'he Westintfiousc equipped oil-electric 
locomotives of the Canadian National 
are the most powerful in the world.
The steam locomotive has a new rival
ATTENTION in railway circles focuses 
this year on a spectacular undertaking 
by the Canadian National Railways—the 
electrification of certain trains on non-electri- 
fied lines.
One great oil-electric locomotive is already 
in service. The largest and most powerful of its 
type in the world, this giant electric locomotive 
that carries its own generating plant develops 
2660 horsepower, uses only .43 lb. of fuel per 
horsepower-hour developed at full load. > 
Many interesting features arc incorpo- f 1 
rated in its design. The speed and voltage 
of the engine-generators are #
automatically controlled by 
the power demands.
The engine exhaust is directed through auto­
matically regulated economizers that heat the 
coaches and serve as well as mufflers. Control 
is placed at both ends, to enable running in 
either direction. Only in a difference in gear­
ing need the passenger type units differ from 
: those adapted to freight service.
In the development of this locomotive West- 
; inghouse engineers co-operated with the Rail­
way’s own engineers and leading locomotive 
manufacturers and frame builders. Every 
year hundreds of important jobs in 
which electricity is involved are dele- 
gated to Westinghouse, the 
clearing house for electrical 
development.
“Never!” cried Our Nell, bound to the rails, her eyes 
blaring: with defiance. “Death is preferable to a life with 
such as you.”
‘How do you make that out?” he purred,
“A rasping voice such as yours would make life a living 
hell,” she answered him. “Unbind me, change to 
OLD GOLDS and maybe Til listen to reason.”
FASTEST GROWING C!GARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE T~ARTÄNAND75C5ET NSFORPE zr, N55I
PnONE MAYFLOWER 3601
Publlnhcd one« «v«nr ‘"•ek durlnn th* coll «KO r*«r b y «nd*rarr«ánaU* of Orarci« 
Institut« of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Pout Offie« m »»cond-clw matter.
THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chicf------Business Manager— Managing Editor— News Editor-Women’s Editor-----------------------------
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Wilfred Worland Janet Adler 
Henry L. Bunker 
ALUMNI 
Alumni Editor,Kalhryn E. O’Donnell J. H. Fulton C. M. Campbell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
L. M. Baugh H. R. Wall G. L. Borgerding TohnJ. Boyle Isabel Levin J. F. Spencer 
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager—David Genter 
CIRCULATION
Circulation Manager-----J. P. Jones
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Mary Gordan Pearle M. Goldberg
-Thomas W. Lippert ___Robert H. Wehrle¿
acob S. Carpe atherine Boyd ______Rosemary Barr
ATHLETICS
Athletic Editor--------George Merrin
John P. Alms George Suitt 
NIGHT SCHOOL
Plaid Editor___Edw. E. «McDonald
CONTRIBUTORS 
F. E. Foote Nancy Newman 
Helen Whitchiil Sara E. Wonders 
REPORTERS
V. McBride 
K. A. Palen 
N. Sloan 
G. M. Jarvis 
S. Winikoff 
E. Steiner
O. Weniger
G. Novak
H. D. Kolb 
K. L. Gres* 
Z. Mazza 
B. Apple
Oflio«—Room 12, Industrial Bulldin». OfHe* Hour*—Monday to Thur»d»r.
1:20. Paper rand a up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To Insur« publication on th« «uccccdlng Tu««d»y, n*w« lUrns must b« la th* 
itudent po»t offlc« or Tartan Ofllc« before 4:80 Thursday.
After OITIc« Hour*, Call—
Editor, Mayflower 72081 Plaid Editor, 8eh*nl*y 2*8».
Manarlne Editor, Homc*tead 0786-Rj Business Manager, Behenlay *011. 
Advertinihn Mnnaser, Schenley 9211.
Out Of The “Know”
The average college student, possessed of a certain amount 
of individualistic tendencies, often resents being branded con­
ventional. The average member of the older generation, pos­
sessed of those conservative tendencies which years bring, con­
demns the college student for his lack of conventionalism. Yet. 
consideration of the subject of narrow student interests will 
reveal a strange paradox. The average student, who makes no 
effort to acquaint himself with the world of art, music, drama, 
and literature, is being conventional at the same time that he 
resents the brand of conventionalism. The older generation 
member, who deplores this lack of cultural interest on the part 
of the student, is championing individuality at the same time 
that he condemns the student for his lack of conventionalism.
Analysis of the student’s narrow activities elucidates this 
paradox. Confining his means of diversion almost entirely to 
the ordinary collegiate recreation, the average college man rare­
ly attempts to interest himself in attending good lectures, plays, 
concerts, or in reading good literature. Ethel Barrymore, Sin­
clair Lewis, Will Durant, Edwin Slosson, Thornton Wilder, 
Carl Sandburg, Rockwell Kent, Fannie Hurst, Carlton Beals. 
Abbe Dimnet, Lewis Browne, Ernest Toller, Jascha Heifetz. 
Josef Hoffman, Ethel Lcginska, Paul Robeson and La Argen­
tina, have all been in Pittsburgh during the past year. 
Probably fifty per cent of the students were not aware of their 
presence, while another large percentage arc unacquainted with 
important names on the list. Not only is there lack of knowl­
edge of contemporary cultural events, but the field of litera­
ture is also largely unexplored. It is not unusual for a student 
to admit that he dislikes poetry, that he never reads much, aside 
from “light stuff," that he has heard of Trackeray and of Byron 
but has never read any of their works. The statements are 
seldom made apologetically. Often times, a good deal of laugh­
ing comment is passed upon the person who docs read “deep 
stuff," enjoys good poetry, attends lectures and sees Theater 
Guild productions instead of movies. It is “being done," the 
fellows accept such an attitude, and one succumbs to the wishes 
of the majority.
What: will a fair examination of the reasons for the present 
trend of narrow interests reveal? Arguments of lack of time, 
of money, or of background, can all be refuted. At least three 
hours of every week-end can be devoted to cultural pursuits; 
many of the interesting opportunities, such as concerts, lectures 
and literature, can be taken advantage of without cost; suf­
ficient interest in particular subjects can overcome initial lack 
of understanding, for the interested observer is led to inquiry, 
research, and learning.
Ultimately, one comes to the logical conclusion that the 
conventionalism of tlili student is the true cause for his narrow 
Interests. A certain amount of surface knowledge is considered 
sufficient by the majority. It is much easier to be like'the ma­
jority than unlike the majority. Following individual interests 
calls for an initial unguided effort of which the student often 
feels himself uncapable. He lacks self-confidence in the very 
field in which that attitude would be fruitful. He lacks in­
dividuality at the very time when that characteristic can be 
utilized with impunity. Later, economic stress often necessi­
tates the submergence of distinctive ideas, and the opportunity 
for building the foundation of a broadened existence has passed.
It is the same principle which caused the embarrassment 
of the youngster the first time lie wanted to say, “It is I," when 
his companions were still saying, “It is me." . Consciousness of 
his error brought about the desire to rectify it. The decision to 
ignore the methods of the majority effected the step ahead. Can 
he make the same effort at college?
I. L.
.SENIOR INFORMATION
(Continued from Page One) of men in which they are particu­
larly-interested. It is therefore 
important that they be made up 
carefully and neatly, as they often 
have considerable bearing upon a 
man’s selection.Activei negotiations arc being 
carried on by the Bureau with a 
number of companies, and some of 
these have already arranged for 
definite interview periods. Three 
companies, Firestone Tire and 
Rubber Company, the Surface 
Combustion Company, and the
Buffalo Forge Company have al­
ready had representatives here, and 
several more will interview the
latter part of January. The E, I. 
dn Pont de Nemours Company 
will have its representative here 
January 28, »and the Worthington 
Pump and Machinery Company, 
January -29 and 30. Dates for later 
interviews will be announced later. 
Seniors are advised to watch the 
Tartan and the bulletin boards 
for' notices of interviews or
changes of dates.
For the information of seniors 
the following companies have sig­
nified their intention of visiting 
Carnegie Tech sometime this 
spring: Alvey-Fcrguson Co., Arm­
strong Cork Co., American Steel 
and Wire Co., Bell Telephone Co., 
Bailey Meter Co., the Chase Com­
panies, Chevrolet Company, Cutler 
Haninier“ Company, Dupont Com­
pany, Duplate Corporation, East­
man Kodak Company, General
Electric Company, Goodyear Tire 
and Rubber Company, Midvale 
Steel Company, National - Cash 
Register Company', Pittsburgh 
Plate Glass Company, Pennsyl­
vania R. R., Standard Oil Com­
pany of New Jersey, U. S; Rubber 
Company, Westinghouse Electric 
and Manufacturing Company, West 
Pvenn Power Company, Worthing­
ton Pump and Machinery Com­
pany. The Bureau also. has on 
hand the names of a number of 
companies who do not visit, but 
will accept written applications. 
Seniors arc invited to see Mr. 
Grau about any particular company 
in which they might be interested.
Many of the companies have for­
warded literature and descriptive 
material for the use of seniors 
prior to their visit, and prospective 
graduates arc welcome to peruse 
this material at any time,.
The most important thing at the 
present, however, is to return the 
employment blanks properly filled 
out as quickly as possible. Watch 
the Tartan every week for further 
employment news.
PLAID MARKSMEN
(Continued from Page One) 
rivalry among the squad for posi­
tions bn the team. Three of the 
five high scorers constituting the 
team are ncwcomers to the varsity 
ranks. ..Much of the rivalry is, no 
doubt, due to the fact that major 
letters were awarded the rificrs 
last year although rifle is consid­
ered a minor sport;
From the Fence
It’s an ill wind that blows no­
body good. The above wise crack, 
another of the many made famous 
by the original Arthur Brisbane, 
Mr. Aesop, has certainly hit home 
as far as the: recent taxi strike is 
concerned. The entropy of the 
taxi-cabs has been of great bene­
fit. In the first place, every eco­
nomical college student had been 
provided with an excellent excuse 
for obtaining a date. As a result, 
the local night club business is 
showing a marked increase, and 
all because, with taxis unavailable, 
an evening with Mr. Bestor is 
comparatively inexpensive. All the 
boy has to say is, that if taxis 
had been available, we would cer­
tainly have taken one. Of course!
Street car companies arc seri­
ously considering placing upper 
berths in all cars for the week­
end inebriates. When, taxis were 
available, these boys could stretch 
out on the floor and sleep it off. 
This is impossible on the street 
car, hence the bunks. Rumor has 
it that the local company is in­
stalling classes for the trainmen 
and is teaching them the fircmaii’s 
carry. The street car company has 
made another ten strike with their 
dimly lighted rear compartments. 
It would seem as though the com­
pany is running the ear for two 
classes: Those who wish to go
somewhere, and those who wish 
to get some place.
Perhaps those who have re­
ceived the greatest benefit from 
this disappearance of the college 
man's bugaboo, arc the boys from 
our . neighboring college who at­
tended their annual Junior Prom 
Jast Friday. Imagine being able 
to take the . one and only from 
her home to the scene of hostilities 
in a motor coach 1 All we can say 
is that .we - hope this cab strike 
continues until after February 7.
A recent article in one of our 
current magazines told how a pro­
fessor from somewhere in Mas­
sachusetts, it would be Massachu­
setts, claims thai anyone partici­
pating in the great American in­
door game known as Bridge, is 
mentally unbalanced, and ready 
for the bow-wows. If such is the 
case, those Senior Commercials 
who can find little or nothing else 
to do in their spare time had 
better take warning, or people 
will begin to believe some of 
those wild rumors which arc ram­
pant about these future sales man­
agers and presidents of the United 
States.
Random shots and random 
thoughts. There is a civil war 
raging in the local newspaper of­
fice. The Editor himself and Dave 
Genter arc having a pretty battle 
deciding just who is to have per­
manent possession of the office 
stenographer. The debonair adver­
tising manager is one up right 
now, but the editor claims lie’ll get 
there. Girls casting about for elig­
ible s for the Women’s Junior Prom 
might try Russ Kambach, tin 
phlegmatic captain of the tennis 
team. lie’s really a nice boy. 
Someone has come across with the 
suggestion that the Junior Prom 
committee might try raffling off n 
ticket or two for the biggest, and 
most glorious Prom in history, 
(adv.) Chairman Boyle is smiling 
these days. He finally has an or­
chestra, and believe us, it’s worth 
the price. There is a rumor flying 
around that we may get a Campus 
Week this year. Of course they 
won't call it Campus Week, but 
we can all enjoy it as though it 
were. We wonder if the Travel­
ing Burlesque Wagon of George 
Jaffc's palace will be with us once 
more. Wonder what Ann McKee 
was doing down near Mr. , Thurs­
ton last week? That girl never 
needed any magic. We wonder 
who those girls with the cast iron 
stomachs arc who can eat a cream 
cheese and nut bread sandwich, 
followed by a dessert of a piece 
of chocolate cake, chocolate ice 
cream, and chocolate sauce? Pag­
ing Doc Marks. The President of 
the Junior Maggie Murphs has 
been limping during the past week. 
Must have been a long walk home. 
And it won’t be long until exams.
Cluck! Cluck!
Thcy-bet and pay bets at V. P. I. 
A sophomore bet on the V. M. I. 
game.and.V. P. I. lost 14-0. The 
soph shaved the crown of his head, 
painted those unlucky numbers in 
red on the bald spot, and made 
numerous explanations during 
Christmas recess..? * *
Attired in pajamas and coon- 
skin coats, some hundred students 
and Professor Charles Townsend 
Copeland were driven from Hallis 
Hall, Harvard Yard, early’ one 
morning by a fire in the dormitory, 
believed to have been started by a cigarette.
oPinmiNc D AY A!R9 E3 ^0
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
fj POST-SUN Building 
PITTSBURGH 
.Phonw.-GRcnt 1654 orl655^j
The Bogey Man 11 Get You —If
'Production lor use and not tor 
profit.” This is the chief tenet of 
all workers’ parties. It does not 
sound unusually drastic. What it 
docs imply is that the world’s 
goods should be at the command 
and for the use of those who have 
labored to make it available.
The situation in the capitalistic 
state is simply this: Goods arc
produced in as great quantity as 
possible as quickly as possible. 
Why? To be sold, in order that 
the entrepreneur and the' investor 
may profit. When the time comes, 
ask it docs periodically, that the 
market is flooded, production 
ceases. The depression reacts al­
most solely to the detriment of the 
worker, who has no resources upon 
which to rely.
“We Americans are told that we 
live in the most prosperous coun­
try in the world. Certainly, our
natural resources, our mechanical- 
equipment, our physical power, the 
technical capacity of our engineers, 
and the skill of our workers in 
farm and factory make it possible 
for us to attain a level of well­
being of which our fathers never 
drired to dream.
“Yet poverty abounds? The own­
ers of our natural resources and
industrial equipment and the gov­
ernment which they have made'vir­
tually their tool have not given 
us plenty, freedom or peace in any 
such degree as we have the right 
and cluty to demand.
“Men arc hungry while farmers 
go bankrupt for lack of effective 
demand for food. Tenant farming 
has reached a proportion of almost 
*10 per cent; more than 40 per cent 
of the value of farm lands is cov­
ered by mortgages.
“Industrial workers arc scarcely 
better off. In good years there 
arc at o least one million unem­
ployed. By a conservative esti­
mate in .these times of stock mar­
ket prospccitv the number has aris­
en to four million. About one-third 
of those of our population 65 years 
of age and upward, arc at least
partially dependent upon some 
form of charity. While real wages 
have risen for certain groups they 
have risen scarccly more than half 
the increase of productive power 
of the workers.
“And what gains have been made 
are far from universal, as the mis­
ery of textile workers and the tra­
gedy of the coal fields—to cite only 
two examples—abundantly proves. 
In fact at the present time a ma­
jority of the workers obtain a 
wage insufficient to maintain 
themselves and families in health 
and decency. Furthermore the 
rapid increase in the use of ma­
chinery and the growing intensity 
of work are leading to quicker ex­
haustion and greater insecurity.
“Meanwhile the owning class has 
been using the government to cur­
tail the power of the workers 
whose organized might, especially 
tliroug'h their unions, has been 
chiefly responsible for whatever 
gains they have made. To curb 
the workers, civil liberties are de­
nied, injunctions arc invoked 
against union activities and the 
courts are made • the instruments 
of tjiat class justice of which the 
Mooney case and the legalized 
murder of Sacco and Vanzctti were 
conspicuous examples.
“Not only plenty and freedom 
but peace is endangered by this 
system under which the many are 
exploited for the profit of the few. 
Sons of the. workers now die in 
President Coolidge’s infamous lit­
tle imperialist war in Nicaragua, as 
they died in President Wilson’s 
similar wars in Haiti, Santo Do­
mingo and Mexico, and above all 
that great imperialistic war born 
of the trade and financial rivalries 
of the nations which cost our 
country forty billion dollars and 
hundreds of thousands of lives.
“From the wars, waste and 
cruelty of a system where the 
rightful heritage of the workers , is 
the private property of the few 
only the united efforts of farm­
ers and workers of hand and brain,
through their co-operatives, unibns 
and political party\ can save us.”
A popular diversion of the in­
telligentsia—the pink tea-ers—is to 
lounge comfortably in adequate homes and inquire amusedly, “Why 
do not the workers change, the 
status of affairs if they don’t like 
things as they are?” And also, 
“What would YOU change if you 
had the power?” The above ex­
tract may help to answer their 
languid questions.
—Bandbox.
PROF. DIBBLE
(Continued from page 1) 
get rid of it. On January 16, the 
class was addressed by S. Harper 
of the Carrier Corporation of New­
ark, N. J. He gave an interest­
ing and thorough lecture on the 
humidifying and conditioning of 
the air. On January 23, C. W. 
Wheeler of the Dunham Company 
will lecture' on the subject of 'dif­
ferential steam heating systems for 
large office buildings.
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
atForbes National Bank
Fifth and Oakland
RICHARD K. MELLON . 
THOS. H. McCANDl.KSS 
HARRY S. BROWN_____
OFFICERSPITTSBURGH
i Pres. und Cashier 
.....Assistant Cashier
BOARD OF
THOMAS S. RAKER 
President Cnrnogie Institut« of 
Technology 
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chnncellor University of 
PittsburRh 
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhoad & Knox. Attorneys 
JOHN F. CASEY 
President, John F. Casey Co.
ELMER F. COLE 
President, National Union Fire 
Insurance Company 
A. REX FLINN 
President, Booth & Flinn Co. 
HOWARD M. JOHNSON 
Auditor. Ligonicr Valley Railroad
No Service Charge
DIRECTORS
RICHARD K. MELLON 
President 
Director, Mellon Nntlonal Bnnk 
THOMAS II. McCANDLESS 
Vico President and Cnshicr 
WILLIAM S. MOOKEHEAD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HER BERT A. MAY 
Vice President Union Drawn 
Steel Company 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCÁIFE 
Vico President, Wm. B. Scnlfo & 
Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director. Mellon Institute of 
industrial Research
on Small Accounts
/ / they shall 
laot have our 
I*!l»cs!
P
IPES and pants are mascu­
line prerogatives that defend 
themselves and us. Where else 
could men find sanctuary?
Pipes, stout pipes, and packings 
of good old Edgeworth—what per­
fect expression of man’s inviolable 
right of refuge with other men 
behind barriers of redolent smoke!
¦ Tobacco with the whiskers on/ 
that’s what man wants—good old 
seasoned pipe-tobacco, the best 
of the leaf, all blended and fla­
vored and mellowed . . . Edge- 
worth, in short.
You don’t know Edgeworth? 
Then no time must be lost. Buy 
Edgeworth or borrow it, or let us 
send you some. There belowis even 
a coupon, a free ticket for your 
first few pipefuls of the genuine.
Send us the coupon 
and we’ll send you 
the Edgeworth.
Edgeworth Is a careful 
blend of good tobaccos 
—selected especially for 
pipe-smoking. Its quality 
nndflavor never change. 
Buy Edgeworth any­where—“Ready Rub­
bed” and “Plug Slice”— 
15d pocket package to 
pound humidor tin.
Edgeworth
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS fis BRO. CO.
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try 
it in n good pipe.
J Town and State_
Now let the Edgeworth come! V
I THISTLEDOWN f
Dear Thistledown: If someone
should ask me which of my sub­
jects I considered the most un­
pleasant, I would say chemistry, 
and I wouldn’t stutter a bit when 
I spoke. ! Chemistry at Carnegie 
ccrtainly isn’t taught in a manner 
which makes it clear enough for a 
fellow who hasn’t had it already in 
high school. We have lectures 
twice a week, recitations twice a 
week, and an afternoon in the 
laboratory. We . are cxpected to 
take notes from the lectures, and 
pass quizzes on them in the recita­
tions. Perhaps this would be pos­
sible, if one could get a good set 
of notes at the lectures. No one 
can who hasn’t very large, keen 
cars, and who doesn't sit pretty 
well down front. The light from 
the windows hits the blackboards at 
an angle which makes it impossible 
for many of us to read what is 
written on them. We would be 
willing to stay after class to copy 
off this data, but as soon as the 
board is covered everything is 
erased and ihe board covered again. 
Usually the quizzes cover the ma­
terial which was erased. I happen 
to have three different instructors 
in this one subject. Each one ex­
pects to be able to ask me ques­
tions based on material one of the 
others has given me. In the labora­
tory I am unable to get the equip­
ment for my experiments, because 
the stockroom man seems to spend 
at least half his time away from 
the stockroom. There is some dif­
ference between the chemistry and 
phj'sics departments in getting the 
equipment you need and getting it 
when you need it. All in all, in­
stead of finding the chemistry 
course a source of knowledge or of 
pleasure, so far as I ani concerned 
it seems to have been for me this 
semester a rather useless waste òf 
t,me- August Plebe.
Dear Mr. Thistledown: Sòme
time ago you had a great deal to 
say about fraternities in your 
column. You must know as well 
as I do that there arc manj' other 
social groups about the campus, 
some of which I have long cx­
pected you to make the butt of 
your satire. There is, for example, 
the Tobacco Chcwcrs’ Club,’ and 
the Architects’ Loose Neck Affilia-
tion. There is the Sweater instead 
of Shirt Society whose president 
can be seen any night in the Grill 
proudly flaunting (the insignia oJ 
the group. There is the Cook 
Your Own Grub Association, which 
almost every one has smelled, and 
which every one knows has head­
quarters in one of the dormitories. 
I have heard that the Cosmetics 
Confederation is one of the oldest 
and best established of all these groups.
This letter, Mr. Thistledown, is 
about none of these, but about the 
Halitosis League, with which I am 
glad I have no connection, but 
whose secrets and customs I have 
pretty well discovered by careful 
observation. In fact, membership 
in the League involves more than 
the members themselves are ordi­
narily aware of. It has long been 
a campus rumor that Louise and 
Betty stopped having dates with 
Marvin because he had joined the 
H. L., vice versa, John began to 
be much more interested in Mary’s 
roommate than in her when he dis­
covered she was a Leaguer. Some 
say Splicer got an F instead of an 
E in English because his English 
prof, discovering lie had halitosis, 
refused to give him any conferences. 
Iiardupp needed a scholarship, and 
interviewed Dean Tarbell about it, 
but it is said he ruined his chances 
when he carelessly let his mouth 
get too-close to Dean Tarbcll’s 
nose. I could multiply examples 
of this kind, Mr. T.
Of course, not even their best 
friends will tell. them. That is the 
pit}' of the situation. I. suggest, 
Consequently, that each reader of 
this letter go home and by any 
contrivance whatsoever, smell his 
own breath. More than that, if any 
of }rour readers know any parti­
cularly offensive member of the 
League, I suggest that he clip the 
column this week and send it 
anonymously to the offender. 
Whatever the immediate offense he 
may feel at such a hint, his offense 
ought very quickly to turn to 
gratitude toward his critic. Cer­
tain it is that before a member of 
the Halitosis League the world re­
treats as rapidly as the advertise­
ments say. Violet Drops.
Cardo Chardon Discnwolle.
Compliments of
HAROLD HUNTER
and his
COLLEGIATE IMPS
ORCHESTRA 
Now Booking for the Coming Season 
Mayflower 8441 624 Clyde St.
The
“LOWDOWN”
on
Reversing Charges
FOLKS at home would rather hear 
your voice than see your chirography, 
no matter how nicely you write.
You, too, would rather hear their 
voices.
Most College Men will concede us 
those two points. ^
We, in turn, want to make a
concession.
So, we have made it possible 
for you to telephone home with- ^ 
out opening your own pocket-book!
By a most satisfactory method which 
we call "Reversing the Charges.’*
You go to the nearest telephone, give 
the operator your home téléphoné num­
ber and tell her you want’to reverse the 
charge.
She will connect you with Home, you 
will have your chat; and Dad will get 
the bill!
* Simple? Satisfactory? You’ll be 
surprised!
Q Just for fun • . . call Home
- tonight.
