FOREIGN STUDENT 
BELIEF DRIVE 
FEBRUARY 19
SECRETARIAL CLUB 
BENEFIT BRIDGE 
McCREERY'S SATURDAY
VOL. XVIII NO. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1924
FOOTBALL STAR 
NAMED TO HEAD 
CAMPUS WEEK
Appoint Cy Comfort Chair­
man of General Committee 
for Campus Week—Chair­
men Sub-Committees Are 
Chosen
FIRST MEETING TODAY
With the end of tne exmainations, 
and the beginning of the second - se­
mester, a vague idea begins to crys- 
talize in the minds of the students, 
of Carnegie Tech. Camups Week! 
Although the actual event is three 
months away, it seems to he almost 
time that something be heard about 
the crowning event of the school 
year. From now until the last of 
April, things will be creeping out 
about the fifth annual Campus Week; 
all kind» of conjectures will be pass­
ing about the campus; questions will, 
be popping in the club rooms and 
at the student gatherings.
Well, here goes. This is official 
confirmation of the general rumor 
that Cy Comfort, football star de 
luxe, will be the big chief this year, 
and the announcement will be re­
ceived with joy by the students who 
know what Cy can do.
The general committee which will 
work with Cy? has also been appoint­
ed. It consists of the following: 
Assistant Chairman, Hoffer Sload;
secretary, Miss Helen Gilespie;
treasurer, Frank Gore; assistant
treasurer is yet to be appointed by 
the student! council; General Plann­
ing, Ed Couse; Social Committee. 
Chas. James; Sweepsta.kes Commit­
tee, W. Fencil; Electrical Construc­
tion, It. A. Garbett, recommended by 
the honorary electrical engineeringt
iternity; Publicity, Fred C. Smith,
lommended by the honorary jour- 
listic fraternity, Pi Delta Epsilon.; 
•Is Committee, Miss Helen John- 
Construction, C. J. Kuhn; Ath- 
Lcs, Ross Roller; Qualification. Jer- 
Slye; Alumni, G. L. Tilbrook; 
tertainment, J. Lazarus and H. 
lesie; Business Manager . for the 
tertainments yet to be appointed 
(Continued on Page Three.)
. M. Secretaríais 
Exhort Their Friends
R. O. T. C. CLASSES TO
HEAR LECTURES ON 
TACTICS DURING WINTER |
The Freshman and Sophomore 
classes in R. O. T. C. will meet every 
Thursday in Room 218 of the Science 
Building at 11:30, for lectures in mili­
tary tactics by different military auth­
orities of this section of the country. 
This Thursday a motion picture 
"Flashes of Action” will be shown. 
This picture should prove of great in­
terest to the R. 0. T. C. classes.
HEAVY VOTE ON 
BOK PEACE PLAN
Scarlet Fever Scare is the Cause of 
Ban On All Social Activities About
School; Situation is Not Serious
REV. ROBERT N. MEAD WILL
SPEAK AT CHAPEL THURSDAY
Students Approve Plan 
Vote Taken During 
Registration
The first chapel of the new semes­
ter will be held Thursday in the Arts 
Theater at 12:50 p. m. The speaker 
is to be Rev. Robert N. Mead of the 
Church of the Redeemer, and all are 
invited to attend.
Another good chapel is assured for 
next week, when Bishop Alexander 
Mann, who heads the Pittsburgh dio­
cese of the Episcopal Church, will 
speak to the students.
Dr. Esquerre Emphatically 
Denies the Existance of an 
Epidemic, But Asks Stud­
ents to be Careful
Carnegie Tech students showed 
that they had an interest in world af­
fairs when a large percentage voted 
during Registration Days on the ques­
tion of adopting the Bok Peace Plan.
No one expected the unusually 
heavy vote that was cast because it 
was found in most colleges that stu­
dents were not especially interested 
in this question. Of the 894 students 
who voted, 676 voted for the plan and 
218 voted against it—more than a 
three to one vote in favor of the plan, 
which certainly shows hearty ap­
proval of the choice of Mr. Bole’s com­
mittee.
Someone suggested that the vote 
would have been heavier still if the 
red tape connected with registering 
had not made a student so weary by 
the time he reached the ballot boxes, 
which were guarded by Y. W. C. A. 
and Y. M. C. A. representatives at the 
end of the line, that they were glad 
to escape at the first opportunity.
Postponed One Week—Relief 
Drive Starts Out With 
New Enthusiasm
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
"Roses of Mercatel” to 
Be Given in Theater
Honors Come to J.V. O’Brien, 
Music Dept. Head
) Attend Benefit Bridge at 
McCreery’s Sat. P. M.
./The Secretarial Club of Margaret 
'Morrison will hold a Margaret Morrl- 
Bon benefit bridge Saturday afternoon, 
February 16, at 2:30 p. m. at Mc­
Creery’s. This bridge, it is hoped, 
will rival any of the former Margaret 
Morrison benefits. It is the first un­
dergraduate bridge to be held off the 
campus. All Carnegie girls and their 
friends are expected.
The Secretarial Club at the begin­
ning of this year set out with all the 
pep and efficiency of Margaret Mor­
rison secretaries to make this its best 
year, having in mind a new goal to 
strive for. This is the SCHOLARSHIP 
to be awarded some worthy incoming 
Senior Secretarial at the end of this 
year.
The tickets are selling at $1 each, 
or $4 a table. The committee in 
charge is working hard to make this 
Undertaking fulfill all Carnegie stand­
ards of success and spirit.
One can get tickets from any mem- 
per of the committee—Gladys Sleppy,’ 
chairman; Nora Willetts, Marguerite 
McGrath, Elizabeth Wright, Florence 
Johnston and Mildred Moren, or from 
any of the officers of the club—Faye 
L. Glass, president; Adah S. Borger- 
ding, vice president; Sara Sussman, 
secretary; Kathryn Moren, treasurer, 
:and Miriam Bond, social chairman.
Among the table holders for the 
day are: Mrs. E. V. Page, Mrs. Mal­
colm McLeod, Mrs. E. M. Cranna, 
Miss Edith M. Winchester, Mrs. E. 
M. Vermorcken, Miss Hazel McKee, 
Miss Grace Patterson, Miss Margaret 
Griffin, Miss Ruth Keiser, Mrs. Ara J. 
Miller, Miss Harriet Rose, Miss Mary 
Bechtel, Miss Maud Fire, Miss Martha 
Lloyd, Miss Grace Merrill, Mrs. C. O. 
Harvey, Miss Adele Gumbert, Miss 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
The following clipping lias come to 
our attention:
"According to its annual custom, 
the Foruni on February 25 will honor 
a Pittsburgh composer by giving a re­
cital of his works. J. Vick O’Brien 
has been chosen as the musician to be 
honored this year and the recital will 
be given in the theater in the College 
of Fine Arts, Carnegie Tech.”
J. Vick O’Brien, mentioned in this 
short notice, is the head of the De­
partment of Music here at Carnegie. 
Coming to Carnegie in August, 1912, 
to organize and set up the Music De­
partment, he has continued as head of 
the department since that time. While 
carrying on his work here at the 
school, Mr. O’Brien has been engaged 
in his work as composer and has writ­
ten, among other things, three operas: 
“Ye Olde Virginia,” “Hour Before 
Dawn” and "Roses of Mercatel,” the 
last two of which have been produced 
here at Carnegie in public perform­
ance by members of the Music and 
Drama Departments. Other works of 
his are: "Incidental and Ballet Music 
for the Chaplet of Pan,” as well as 
about fifty songs, piano pieces and 
chamber music.
Mr. O’Brien. has had a sound and 
thorough education in music. He at­
tended Stearns Conservatory and 
later went to Berlin to study. There 
he studied composition with Humper­
dinck, head of the Meisterschule for.
(Continued on Page Two)
CARNEGIE COMMONS ISSUES 
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
The Carnegie Commons wishes to 
announce that student meal tickets 
will continue to be sold. This notice 
is to correct an idea in a former 
article stating that all meal tickets 
were to be called in by the Commons. 
While this statement is true, it does 
not mean that no other tickets will 
be sold in the future.
It might also be stated that unless 
a certain number of tickets are sold, 
the system will be discontinued, as it 
requires a certain number to permit 
the school to make out financially.
FEB. 19, NEW DATE 
FOR RELIEF DRIVE
The campaign for the Student Re­
lief drive has been postponed for one 
week, as there will be no general as­
sembly. The speaker engaged for the 
occasion has been requested to wait 
until then and if it is impossible for 
him to speak at that time, local men 
of note will be brought here to give; 
short talks at the divisional assem­
blies.
The work of reconstruction is pro­
gressing very well at present, and 
while we are still responsible for our 
brothers’ welfare, let us not fall down 
on the job and fail to come across. 
Just now there is some discussion con­
cerning the way some of the superiors 
of the foreign countries are acting. 
We must not forget that it is to the 
younger generation we owe our aid, 
and it is with them that we must 
make our world, for the future, a safe 
and sane place to live.
Get some of the tickets and help to 
go part of the way on our "Mile a 
Day” line of tickets. These tickets 
will be sold in strips and each ticket 
provides one student with a meal or 
necessary supplies. Let’s all get be­
hind this drive and make it one of the 
best we have ever had at Carnogie 
Tech.
Talk it over with someone else and 
get him to buy a strip of tickets, too. 
Remember February 19, 20 and 21.
F0UR-SCH00L GAMBOL 
WILL BE FIRST DANCE
The Gambol of the Guilds will he 
held in the Union Thursday, Febru­
ary 21. This will be the first dance 
held on the campus after the scarlet 
fever quarantine is lifted, as all othor 
social events have been cancelled or 
postponed on account of the recent 
epidemic. The Gambol is ono of tho 
biggest four-school affairs of the year, 
and as the assessment of $2.50 is lit­
tle more than the usual week-end 
dance, no Tech man can afford to 
miss it. The committee has arranged 
a novel programi with fine decorations 
and refreshments. The Collegiate 
Imps will furnish the music.
Preliminary tickets have been on 
sale for several weeks, and a record 
attendance is expected. These tick­
ets cost only a dollar, and may be se­
cured from any of the committee.
COMPREHENSIVE REPORT 
ON OILS FROM SHALES
GIVEN BY GEOLOGY DEPT.
The Pickled Fruits Put Out by Heinz 
Wise Men Regard as True Love Signs
I When a girl takes to eating pickles, 
®er B. F. had better do one of two 
Wings. He must either boldly face 
double future, or lie must hurriedly 
und up his better part of valor and
prominent. For the present she is 
firmly decided to pin her affection to 
him and him alone. I did not say 
only, but that’s what I mean!
You may think that a pickle is too
¡part. If lie has no discretion he is i homely with its undulating surface 
lit of luck. | and curious pastel shading to play
A man who can go on calmly imbib-1 such an important part in making the 
ig ice cream across the table from world go l’ound. In reality, this vege­
table ranks second only to lamp posts, 
parked cars, and electricity in pro­
mulgating courtship.
If men are unwisely wary they will 
prohibit pickles in their presence, and 
advocate candy. When a girl eats 
candy she automatically becomes crit­
ical, even though all the laws of log­
ical behavior give this statement the 
fg what nice eyes he has, or what a j lie. After all, it is only the law of 
jod dancer he is, overlooking his opposites that applies to girls. The 
bits, which are usually far more! (Continued on Page Four.)
pickle-eater is either a brave man 
!r a sentimentalist, or else he doesn’t 
now what he is doing. The latter is 
ighly improbable, of course.
Since the times of the Medes, Per- 
ians and Persianettes, fact has it 
lat when a girl masticates pickles 
id looks at a man she is already lay- 
plans for his future. She is think-
Considerable publicity has been 
given to the report compiled by Dr. 
Fettke of die Geology and Mineral­
ogy Department. This report on the 
probable amount of oil that can be 
obtained from the distillation of coal 
and shale promises the Industries of 
the United States an almost unlimited 
supply of oil, but not at the current 
rate.
Dr. Fettke discusses the advantage 
of low temperature carbonization of 
coal, the location of such coal, and the 
superiority of the fuel obtained.
The report just completed by Dr. 
Fettke was conducted under the aus­
pices of the Topographical and Geo­
logical Survey of Pennsylvania and 
was started in 1918.
STUDENTS COOPERATE
In line with tho temporary ban 
placed on all social gatherings during 
tho contagious illness of Carnegie 
Tech students, announcement is made 
that President Thomas S. Baker's re­
ception scheduled for next Saturday 
evening, February 16th in the College 
of Fine Arts has been indefinitely 
postponed.
This action has been taken by Pres­
ident Baker as an extra precautionary 
measure to prevent the possible out­
break of an epidemic. In making the 
announcement, however, administra­
tion officials emphasize the fact that 
there is no cause for alarm among 
either students or parents of students.
The latest report of the number of 
scarlet fever cases among the stu­
dents shows that on February Stli 
only six were ill with the disease. 
When it is realized that only eight 
cases in all have been reported since 
January 9th it is evident that there 
is no occasion for anxiety.
The students have been especially 
commended for their attitude and co­
operation in taking steps to provent 
an epidemic outbreak. The postpon­
ing of the Arts Ball has been especial­
ly disappointing and many pleasures, 
such as attendance at basket ball 
games, dances, and social affairs will 
be foregone during the next two 
weeks. In spite of those disappoint­
ments, the students have shbwn a 
level-headed" attitude, and it is appar- 
(Contlnued on Pago Throe)
RE-EXAMINATIONS WILL
BEGIN ON FEBRUARY 28
All students who plan to take re- 
examinations during this period must 
register in the ofilce of the Director 
of the College in which they are reg­
istered not later than February 15th. 
In the preparation of the examina­
tion schedule, only those subjects for 
which there are students registered, 
will be considered.
A more complete announcement of 
the re-examinations will be posted on 
the bulletin boards.
ROGER BABSON OFFERS 
PRIZE FOR ESSAY ON
ECONOMIC SUBJECTS
Mr. Roger N. Babson, of tho Babson 
Statistical Organization, offers prizes 
of $650 and ¡5*100 each for an essay on 
"The Forecasting of the Price of 
Wheat;—or Cotton—or of Lumber.” 
All graduates and undergraduates of 
any college or university aro eligible. 
These prizes are expected to stimulate 
the students of universities to a keen- 
or interest In the stabilizing of our 
economic life.
PLANTO HOLD 
CHEMICAL EX­
POSITION HERE
ENGINEER TO DIS­
CUSS EVAPORATION
SOPHOMORE GIRLS WILL 
BANQUET IN SCHENLEY
The Freshman and Sophomoro men 
have their banquets yearly. Thoy aro 
established traditions in this as well 
as all colleges. But tliis year comes 
a new Idea to Carnogie Tech—tho 
Sophomore girls aro going to have a 
banquet! Tho Idea has met with 
much favor and enthusiasm both in 
Arts and Margarot Morrison, and It 
Is expected to be a great succoss.
This banquet is to bo hold in tho 
S'chonley Hotel on March 1, at six 
o’clock. Something unusual in tho 
way of entertainment is being 
planned,* but as yet nothing doflnlto 
has been announcod judging from tho 
"I know something I won’t toll” ex­
pression on the facos of mombors of 
the committee wo rather suspect that 
something unexpoctod may be dis­
closed on tho evening of March :l.
This is the first time such a tlilnr; 
has ever been attempted, and to mnko 
it a success evory Sophomoro girl 
must back It, both with her enthus­
iasm and with her attendanco. Tho 
tickets, which can bo procured upon 
tho payment of $2.25, aro now in cir­
culation, and must be bought boforo 
February 21 in order that the commlt- 
teo may estimate tho number expect­
ed to attend. If this banquet Is a suc­
cess, and it will be, who knows what 
it may start?
REMEMBER THE NILE SONG?
Industries Stag Planned 
To Take Place in March
The College of Industries will hold, 
a smoker similar to the Science Stag. 
The date has not been definitely de­
cided upon yet, but it will probably 
be some time In March. It Js planned 
to have class stunts with a prize of 
some sort for tho class having tho 
best number. The idea is to get the 
Plebes acquainted with the upper­
classmen, and establish an annual 
custom like that of the Science School.
A committee has been appointed, 
with J. B. Foster, chairman, and plans 
are being worked out to make Indus­
tries Stag an annual affair which will 
be one of the big features of the col­
lege year.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Which type of General Assembly do 
you like best, and -sphere do you think 
assembly should be held?
Eimar (Pete) Rygg, Applied Art, 
says: "I think that General Assembly 
should be a good snappy gathering, 
with music and stunts, and that it 
should be held in the Music Hall as 
usual.”
Merrell DuBois, Printing Depart­
ment, says: “A half hour speaker is
too much of a good thing and a ten 
or fifteen minute speaker has no time 
to say anything worth while, so why 
not cut them out all together?”
Madeline Dale, Costume Economics, 
’26, thinks that "we have speakers at 
all our individual assemblies so why 
not make our general meeting less of 
a lecture and more of an enjoyable 
hour, to be looked forward to? I 
think the Music Hall is the best place 1 
to hold it, because it has the best fa­
cilities.
Then, "Dusty” Micuta ’27, Engi­
neers, says: "We should hold our
general assembly in the new gym by 
all means, because it Is handier, for 
one reason, and because I think the 
students should become more accus­
tomed to the place. A pep rally is far 
better than a rogular assembly, be­
cause It works up a better school 
spirit.”
Carol Folght, M. M. English Minor 
says: "Why not alternate it? One
month, have a pep rally at the Gym, 
and the next month have a good 
speaker at the Music Hall. By a good 
speaker I mean one that chooses a 
subject of Interest to all students; 
stories of travel, for instance, or of 
life in other colleges.”
Wilma Stiner, M. M. *25, also of the 
English Minor Department thinks that 
(Continued on Page Three.)
W. L. Badger, Professor of 
Chem.Eng. at Michigan, 
Will Speak Thurs.
W. L. Badger, Profossor of Chemi­
cal Engineering at tho University of 
Michigan, will give the second of a 
series of five public locturos on chem­
ical engineering at Carrtogio next 
Thursday night, February 1*1. He will 
discuss "Evaporation,” a subject in 
which ho has specialized, and of 
which ho is considered an authority 
among tho chemical Industries.
Professor Badger Is a graduate of 
the University of Minnesota, receiving 
his B. A. degree in 1907, B. S. degree 
in Chemistry in 1908, and an M. S. de­
gree in 1919. Between 1909 and 1912, 
he was associated with several largo 
industrial plants as a chemist, and in 
1912 he served in tho Chemical Divi­
sion of the Buroau of Standards.
Since 1918, Profossor Badger has 
been attached to tho faculty at tho 
University of Michigan. During tho 
current year, ho has boon on loavo of 
absenco, devoting tho greater part of 
Ills time to tho Swonson Evaporator 
Company. Ho has also sorvod during 
tho past ton yoars as a consulting on- 
yinoor with several largo firms in tlio 
salt manufacturing Industry.
The lecture by Profossor Badger 
next Thursday night will bo ono of 
tho sorlos of special locturos arranged 
under joint auspices with tho Chem­
ical Equipment Association. Tho dis­
cussion will bo given fit 8:¡10 In Room 
18 of tho Science Building. Presi­
dent Balcor has announced that no 
cards of admission aro required.
KILTIE BAND CLOSES 
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
The Carnoglo Tocli band, numbor 
ing fifty-four men, had an exception­
ally good season during tho past se­
mester. Tho Kilties woro present at 
football g(imo and pop rally, bosldos 
giving a number of outsido concerts,
During tlio football soason tho Kil­
tie Band became famous not only bo 
cause of its uniforms but also for its 
playing. Moving plcturos of them 
were shown all over tho country and 
KDKA broadcasted tliolr playing to 
all corners of the globe. As a roBUlt, 
organizations near and far sought tlio 
band for concerts, but due to school 
work the men could not accommodate 
them All.
The last concert, held at Mayview 
was so successful that the audience 
went wild. It is worth mentioning 
however that the medical staff at May­
view were so pleased with the boys 
that for the first time in the history 
of the institution did they allow a 
large group to go through all of the 
buildings. Another concert la to be 
given at this same institution in the 
near future.
Manager Scott Rudy and Business 
Manager Dave Garber are working 
hard to arrange several good concerts.
As is generally the case, the second 
semester finds a decrease in the roll 
call. Messrs. Sullivan, Rudy and Gar­
ber wish to assure the men that it will 
be worth -their time to continue. Be­
sides a varied program of concerts for 
churches, basket ball games, clubs 
and KDKA there will be dances and 
entertainment and finally the assur­
ance of an insignia. There has been 
a misunderstanding as to last year’s 
insignia and all those entitled to one 
should get in touch with Dave Garber 
immediately.
CLASS BANQUET OF 
SOPHS POSTPONED
Esquerre’s Ultimatum Causes 
Cancellation of Plans 
For Friday, 15 th
Owing to tho exigencies of the scar­
let fever situation as expressed In the 
edict of Professor Esquerre, the Soph­
omore banquet has been Indefinitely 
postponed.
The date on which, tho banquet will 
eventually take place is uncertain. Be­
cause of tho quarantined state of 
some of tho fraternity houses, it is 
Impossible for tho committee to meet 
at present.
Somo difficulty was experienced in 
tho first place In finding a suitable 
date and banquet room. It Is prob­
able that tho same trouble will be 
mot on tlio second attempt, as the 
week-ends of Carnegie’s social calen­
dar are already well crowded.
Postponement of tho affair will 
make possible a program superior 
even to that planned for February 15. 
A. C. Lackoy Is considering tho addi­
tion of sovoral stunts to tho schodulo 
already prepared. ITardle Albright 
and colleagues aro granted tho time 
which they thought nocossary to give 
the true artistic finish to their end of 
tho entertainment.
F. O. Lovolaiul, who la directing the 
publicity, has somo Idoas about adver­
tising tho affair which ought to make 
tho Sophomoro class unanimous In II,a 
attendanco. Thoao will bo hoard of 
later.
Pelleas and Melisande 
Next Drama Production
Maeterlinck’s Famed Play to 
Start February 18th
Polloaa and Mollsaudo, probably 
tho greatest of Maurice Maotorlinck'n 
light plays. Is to bo produced by tlio 
Drama Department In. tho Art« School 
theater, beginning February 18. Tho 
drumuts aro rehearsing dally under 
tho supervision of Mr, Osborne for tho 
production of this, ono ol! I^holr major 
oxorta ol’ tho yoar.
Tho play was written iu 1900 and 
wan shortly afterward taken by Do- 
buasy for tlio text of Ills famous opora 
of tho samo name, which la produced 
ovory soaaon by tho loading opora 
companloa of tho world.
The cast of tlio Drama School pro­
duction has In the title roles Charles 
McCarthy as Polloaa, Ellon Lowe as 
Moliaaudo, and Includes Elizabeth 
Sowersby, Jannot Mlllla and Paul 
McGrath.
Other plays to follow oarly in tho 
semester aro: "Tho Bolted Door” by
T. W. Stevona of the Drama Depart­
ment faculty; "Richard III,” by 
Shakespeuro, and "Trojan Women,” 
by Euripides.
Students and friends of Carnegie 
should take advantage of this oppor­
tunity of seeing the classics of dra­
matic literature produced in the fin­
ished and artistic manner which char­
acterizes the Drama School perform­
ances. Tickets for each play may be 
obtained In tho main Office of Arts 
School a few days before the play Is 
produced.
Chemical Equipment Associ­
ation Requests Use of New 
Gym to Exhibit Apparatus 
During Chem. Eng. Con­
vention Here
BIG BOOST FOR TECH
Duo to difiicultles encountered iu 
securing an auditorium about Pitts­
burgh, the Chemical Equipment Asso­
ciation is planning to hold an exposi­
tion of chemical equipment at Car­
negie Tech during tho annual conven­
tion of the American Institute of 
Chemical Engineers which will meet 
in Pittsburgh next December.
Tho association has tried to obtain 
tho Motor Square Garden for this oc­
casion hut since it was already en­
gaged, permission has been asked to 
use our new gym, and eltlior this or 
tho corridors oli the Industries Build­
ing will bo omployod.
Such an exhibition will bring much 
''credit to tho school since most of the 
leading men of tho chemical industry 
are affiliated with the American In­
stitute of Chemical Engineers. It will 
furnish a more thorough understand­
ing of tho work Carneglu is doing and 
foster a spirit of co-oporation botwoon 
tho chemical manufacturers and the 
school.
Heretofore all chemical expositions 
have boon hold In Now York and this 
la In 110 way Intended to replace the 
annual show there. Its prime aim Is 
to demonstrate tho many different 
typos of apparatus and equipment now 
in use and will probably Introduce 
many of tho now developments In do- 
sign and construction In this field.
Tlie students will bo greatly bene­
fited by this opportunity to Intimately 
study largo commercial chomlcal ap­
paratus which la usually mechanic- 
ally and electrically unique bocauso 
of tho severe and trying conditions 
under which It Is called upon to per­
form successfully, and Inspect closely 
what promises to bo one of tho finest 
collections of modorn Industrial ma­
chinery.
Puppet Offers Prizes 
For Original Contribs
Contest to be Conducted For 
Art and Editorial Work
Appoint Senior Class 
Comm, for Science Stag
C. N. Hollingsworth, president of 
the engineering Senior Class, has ap­
pointed the stunt committee which 
will conduct tho Senior contribution 
to the Science Stag entertainment. 
Tho committee Includes the following 
men: Tilbrook, chairman; MInetti,
Loughrey, NoutzonhoIUer, and J. 
Jones.
Tho three upper classes of tho En­
gineering College have now begun 
preparations for tho 1924 Science 
Stag, while the Freshmen will soon 
appoint their entertainment commit­
tee.
Keen competition among the classes 
for the honor of producing the best 
entertainment Is expected.
TEKNON CLUB MEETING
TO BE HELD THURSDAY
Owing to the scarlet fever epidemic, 
the last weeks meeting of the Teknon 
Club was postponed. The next regu­
lar meeting will be held on Thursday, 
February 14, at 0:00 p. m. A list will 
be posted and members are asked to 
sign up.
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
With the Exchange Issue of tlio. 
Puppet soon to make Its appearance* 
on, tlio campus and the Incomparable1 
"Tootin' Number” Immediately In the' 
offing, Carnogie will not want for real' - 
scintillating colloglate humor for 
tho next two months at least. Tho 
Exchange Numbor will afford every­
one an opportunity to see just what 
other eollogoa are doing along the lino 
of humorous publicans and to aoo tho 
typo of humor provalont among other 
student bodloa.
As an Incontlvo for thoso who aro 
ambitious to soo thoir names in print 
or to foel tho rollicking rattle of 
money In their jeans, Puppet wlahos 
to announce a contest for art and ed­
itorial work. The contest Is on from 
tlio minute you read thls-that Is-any 
work handed In from now on will bo 
credited to the author or artists to­
wards the first prize. The prizes will 
bo cash, tho denominations of which 
will bo made public in the near fu­
ture. Now, don’t run to the news­
stand when you read this and copy 
off roams and reams of stuff that 
has already appeared In print. Puppet 
craves original and unique copy and 
art work and the editors have already 
read most of the printed stuff so you 
won’t get away with it.
A contest such as this offers a great 
opportunity, not only of winning some 
cash, but also of getting a good start 
toward winning one of those jake lit­
tle keys which the staff members dis>~ 
play) so proudly on their vests. Write*, 
down your sweetie's faux pas, your- 
profs’ risque jokes, and your own, 
witty sallies and mail ’em ini to» 
Puppet, C. I. T. Post Office. It may­
be a start on the way to fame and for­
tune, who knows?
Pledges Putting Ban on Kisses
Cramp Style of Dormitory Misses
By D. Alker
Sherman once made a historic wise 
crack connecting war with a certain 
well known torrid region and at tho 
same time said something about of- 
fiuvlating his Hue If It took all of 
June, July, and August to got It 
across. Sherman may have had a 
tough time of It but according to re­
ports certain males around Carnegie 
are all in a fover since tho beginning 
of tho new semester. And It came 
about as per the following.
It seems that a certain hoy was 
feeling rather rush ono evening and 
oxerclsed tho prerogative of oscilla­
tory affection on one of his sweeties 
who, perchance resides in one of the 
date farms known on the campus as 
a dormitory. Innocent enough the 
offense seemed to all concerned, but
his ardor infested his accomplice who 
Immodlatoly tried to break out in a 
spirit of enthusiasm which spread 
quickly from liouso to liouso; In an 
effort to stop the plague, sweet llttlo 
rod signs woro placed on the porches 
of tho offending manors and the mas­
culine sex strictly forbidden entrance 
or connivance with the inmates for a 
period of two weeks. Selah—-so much 
for tho causo.
Now who can resist tho temptation 
of seeing one’s own dearly beloved 
sugar plum for two whole and entire 
weeks when tlio absence of an hour 
from her indescribable charms is too 
tantalizing an anguish to be even 
imagined? (Quotation from a fre­
quenter of Forbes Annex—name will 
be mailed on request—no Maggie 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
H. F. SIMPSON..............
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
..Schenloy 91-13
COMMENTS
THE QUE8TION OF EXAM8
ACTING BUSINESS MANAGER 
J. C. MAJOR............................................................................................Ililand 4011-.I
KENNETH ARNOLD............
FRED C. SMITH....................
FRED T. PIIELPS................
...Schonley 9189—Managing Editor
................Assistant Managing Editor
...............Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT.. 
MARK S. DOWNES 
H. II. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
.Schonley 9220
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..................................................................................... Schonley 9070
K. J). ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schonloy 9070
A. S. ANDREWS.................................................................................... Schonloy 9211
A. E. KROGII... 
R C. FRAZIER.
................Schonloy 9070—Alumni Editor
..............Schonloy 9148—Athletic Editor
*L W. SLEATH .................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. .JEFFREY.................................................................................Exchange Editor
S3. P. COUSE, Jit............................................................................................Art Editor
DON GARDNER .................................................................................. Special Wrltor
T. J. DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W. M. GIBSON............................................Schonloy 9211 Advertising Manager
B. BROUDY..............................................'•..................Assistant Business Manager
Estollo Bari bal dl 
Elizabeth Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stinor 
Carol Foi gl it 
Mo.jgarot M cFall 
Rosemary McCambrldgo 
K. L. Kennedy
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Nora Willots 
Almoe Pliaro 
N. C. Wosor 
V. B. Smith 
L. II. Harris 
JO. G. Johnson 
K. Ful mor 
A. F. Carson
J. M. Goss 
F. L. Wagnor 
F. M. McClelland 
M. W. Gay 
E. E. Korns 
C. A. Llindquist 
R. L. Lepper 
J. N. Conloy
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, It.. L. Sandrock, A. .Grodner, A. 
Barbrow, A. Porreton, Leo C. Osborne.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsiblo for tlio policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor foi* the make up.
While the examinations of the first 
semester aro still fresh in the minds 
of tlio students and faculty members, 
it might not he amiss to bring up for 
discussion a question that offers much 
food l'or serious thought in connec­
tion with tho advisability and practi­
cability of holding final tests. Each 
year, about this time, the modern ex­
amination is subjected to a varying 
amount of criticism by many think­
ing undergraduates and Instructors. 
And each year a sane Inventory of tlio 
arguments advanced pro and con the 
exam reveals the fact that it is being 
regarded with rapidly increasing dis­
favor.
Many prominent members of the 
faculty have expressed themselves as 
being in favor of abolishing tho finals 
ntirely. These men base their argu­
ments upon the conviction that grades 
determined altogether by dally reci­
tations and monthly quizzes would 
tend to insure a much fairer working 
basis for the undergraduates, Under 
the present system of marking and 
grading, there aro fur too many in­
structors who depend upon tho work 
of an examination to show the true 
worth of a student. Passing or flunk- 
ing a final is tho system employed 
too often in determining whether or 
not a man passes or flunks the work 
of a whole semester.
II! the final examination were, in 
every case, a truly representative one, 
and if assurance could be given that 
the undergraduates would begin the 
test under normal physical and men-
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news itoms must be in the student 
post oillce beforo 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Ofilco—Room 5-A, Industries Building, Olilco hours—Daily 12:30-
Holen Corro
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Jacoby T. Christoff J. F., HarrisE. C. Plummer
PROFESSORS AND SOCIABILITY
Criticisms ancl a repairment of its causes go hand-in-hand.
We believe a man can profit by l;he thoughts oil others, when 
they aro about himself.
A man’s brain, is like a sieve, and words arc like so much water. 
"When water passes through, a sieve, some of it clings to' the meshes. 
Likewise, words often enter one ear, arid immediately pass out the 
¦other. Which is why professors say notes should be taken—they 
rceognize that our brains ordinarily make good sieves. For that 
piece of amazing and extraordinary insinuations, we «give them due 
credit, and say: “Didn’t know it was in you,” and let it go at that.
But all ol! this is neither here nor there—we’re only trying to 
scare-up an excuse for saying again: “A man once said to us, etc.”
Anyway, a Senior once said to me: “Talk-up to your professors 
—engage them in conversations on any subject—they’re human-*- 
they’ll like you hotter for it too.”
And therein lies a question of doubt.
We know of a professor '» our school to whom we tried to ’talk- 
up to once. Wc haven’t tried it since; that is to say, with this pro­
fessor, And as far as we know the aforesaid “prof” has not come 
back to earth yet. Perhaps tact is not a part of our make-up!
We n FOR know of another profossor with whom we tried to en­
gage in a. friendly conversation onco—got the once—and we haven’t 
liad I he nerve to try again ; that is to say with this professor.
And so far as we can see, these two learned men have not liked 
us one whit hotter as a result ol1 our conscientious endeavors to carry 
out tho wise advice ol! a venerablo Senior.
It seems to us that this venerable »Senior slipped-up—had a fall 
or two, and mado a mistake by not modifying his well inton tinned 
advice. This much must be admitted (hough- it’s good advice, even 
if somo of our dear faculty do take special delight in entering them 
.-¡elves as stumbling blocks to its authenticity.
All of which reminds us, we know of one “prof” who always 
wits in the Commons for his meals- in tho student section, mind you I 
away from Iho rest of tho faculty, and is always with a. group of stu­
dents. Furthermore in all of the numerous years which wo have 
¡spent around these parts, this professor occupies a position unique 
ho is in a class almost entirely by himself; which is admitting ther 
aro a few exceptions.
Therein lies the solution. Are our professors, as a group, in- 
'clinecl to be sociable with the students, and granting that they, will 
they go out of their way to bcsoV Will they take the initial stepV 
We aro inclined to answer this question affirmatively; but what are 
we going to believe when only one makes it a habit to do so?
It has been charged that professors as a group do not use tact 
and very often fail to consider a student’s feelings when he speaks. 
They are so conscientiously wrapped-up in their, teaching, and the 
-‘dishing-out” of grades that they have come to believe all students 
are trying to put something over on them. Their faith in the human 
nature of students is at a zero ebb.
Still they are conscientious and we loye them for that. Again 
all professors are not alike. There are go6d scouts among them.
Again we are inclined to think that quite a few oil- them think 
quite a lot of themselves.
But, cannot a faculty member take heed to himself as well as 
anybody else?
MUSICAL CLUBS 
READY FOR TRIP,HOOT MONFOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
We received a notice from Doc Es- 
_ _ _ _ y y t *11 t , querre the other day, that owing toTwenty One Men Vv ill Leave I scarlet fever, all school dances,
games,.etc., were taboo. And it wason Trip Thru Ohio 
Towns Feb. 21
ionly Monday that the faculty gave out 
| a number of similar notices but not 
{on account of scarlet fever.
Complete arrangements for Car- Dean Brown has issued an edict 
negie Men's Musical Club concerts on that until our pseudo-epidemic be­
lli o Ohio trip have been made and i comes a tradition, i. e., passed out or 
now ;j.ll that remains to be done is to dead, all Maggie Murphs, etc., will
show our alumnae and friends in Ohio 
just how good Carnegie Tech really is.
The boys are all prepared for a good 
time but are taking care to do their 
utmost In preparing a good concert 
in return for the hospitality- which 
they know the alumni will afford 
them.
On Wednesday, February 21, twenty 
chosen men from both the Glee Club 
and Mandolin Club are to leave for 
Akron. On that evening the clubs will 
give a concert for the St. Vincents 
Alumni. The following day the clubB 
are to give a concert at the Orrville 
High School and on February 23, the 
last day of the trip will find the men 
in tho Presbyterian church at Cleve­
land. On Washington’s birthday the 
men will he either at Youngstown or 
Canton, a matter which is now being 
decided by manager Broudy.
The clubs have good material on 
hand and the program as laid out and 
directed by Mr. Riehl and Mr. Kovack 
should prove successful. The program 
it may be stated is slightly changed 
from that of the previous trip and is 
divided into two main parts, the first 
dealing entirely with more or less se-
Most of us here at Carnegie are a 
bit unaware of what is really going 
on about us.
Especially is that true, when the 
activities of students and faculty are 
in question. Undoubtedly there were 
members of the faculty who wep un­
aware of the vote taken on thè Bok 
Peace Plan at the Registration last 
week.
Similarly, only more so, are stu-
tut conditions, then, Indeed, there! T10"“ numbers while the lot-mi.riit- l... ................. i..... ter are light, popular and comicalmight ha some justiilcation for basing 
the semester’s grade upon the show­
ing made in the examination. But, 
conditions of this nature are ideal, 
and ideal conditions are seldom, if 
ever, met with in |actuul practice. The 
work of two hours is greatly over­
emphasised in the majority of cases 
and oft-times leads a student to re­
sort to questionable tactics in order 
to pass a course.
Final examinations entail an im­
mense amount of work on all parties 
concerned. The student crams for a 
short time and expects to pass a 
course if lie can but acquire enough 
temporary knowledge to pass the quiz. 
The instructor is expected to look 
over a large number of examination 
papers carefully, and to give a fair 
grade in a vory limited time. And if, 
in this rush, he should give an unfair 
grade, lie is doing an injustice to the 
undergraduate that might have se­
rious consequences.
But it is hardly within reason to ex­
pect that there should not be some 
arguments in favor of the final exam­
ination. One school of the college 
stands out as being very mucli in 
favor of exams because the typo of 
work is claimed to make necessary a 
final test In order that the student 
may obtain a clear idea of the entire 
subject in its relation to the course. 
And this is true, perhaps, in some in­
stances.
The qudstion of final examinations 
merits the thoughtful consideration of 
both undergraduates and faculty mem­
bers, The elimination of such tests 
would not moan a consequent lower­
ing oL’ tho standards of the collego as 
Is oCttlines contended by tho follow­
ers of tlie old school, And it is cer­
tain that some changes will have to 
he brought about boforo many yenrs 
elapse.—Penn Stato Collogian,
STUDENT CALENDAR^,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1G
Benefit Bridge (M. M. Secretarials).....................................McCreery’s
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21 
Gambol of the Guilds..................................................9 :00 P. M., Union
Citizens’ Training Camps 
To be Held During July
Announcement was received by the 
Military Department last week that 
tlio dates for the Citizens' Military 
Training Camps tills year would’ ho 
.inly first to thirtieth.
All physically lit male students who 
are not members of tho R. O. T. ( 
are eligible for the camps. The gov­
ernment pays all the expenses of the 
period, including transportation. Stu­
dents from Pennsylvania will receive 
their training at Camp Meade, near 
Baltimore.
The courses given at the camps fur­
nish tlio principles of military knowl­
edge. The environment is pleasant 
and wholesome. The food and quar­
ters are good, and every means of 
recreation is. provided for the men. 
Swimming and dances occupy a prom­
inent place on the program.
Captain Lyons, EIFGR last summer 
spent some time at Camp Meade, re­
ported conditions there as ideal. De­
scriptions of the Camp which appears 
to exaggerate the pleasant features 
are not buncombe, he says, but really 
represent the facts,
Anyone who is interested may se­
cure such information as he desires 
from the Military Department at 
Room 229, Industries.
MINING DEPARTMENT 
ISSUES BULLETINS
Bulletins 6, 7, 8 and 9 of tho Co­
operative Milling Courses are just off 
tho press; tho Mining Engineering De­
partment being the first department 
of the Institute to print any such pa­
pers. The work, curried on by Re- 
¡search Fellows of tlio Institute col­
laborating with officials of tho u. S. 
Bureau of Mines, deals with , four 
phases' of the mining industry.
In addition to their groat technical 
value those bulletins aro valuable as 
ridvortisement for the Institute duo to 
iho great amount of favorable com- 
went from the press throughout tho 
country.
Tho bulletins were printed under 
the auspices of Carnegie Institute, the 
U. S. Bureau of Mines, and the Advis­
ory Board of Coal Mine Operators and 
Engineers. Publication was made 
.possible through the generosity of 
some twenty-four companies of- Wes­
tern Pennsylvania who subscribed a 
.printing fund of $2,000.
The titles and authors are as fol-
lows:
Bulletin G—Accelerated jCorrosion 
Tests of Metals and Alloys Corroded 
by Acid Mine Waters, by R. J, Ander­
son, metallurgist, G. M. Enos, junior 
metallurgist, U, S. Buroau of Mines, 
and .1. R. Adams, research follow, Car- 
neglo Institute of Technology, 1028. 
(M pages and 1.1 Illustrations.
Bulletin 7—A Study of Desulphuri­
zation of Oolte, by A. U. Powell, asso­
ciate chemist, II. S. Bureau ol' Mines, 
and .1. 11, Thompson, research fellow, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
1923. 50 pages and 17 Illustrations.
Bulletin 8—Low Temperature Car­
bonisation of Pennsylvania Coals, by 
J. D. Davis, fuels chemist, U. S. Bu­
reau of Mines and U. S'. Parry, re­
search fellow, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, 192!?. 5Ü pages hud 22 il­
lustrations.
Bulletin 9—Correlation of coal beds 
in Monongahela Formations in Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, by 
Reinhardt Thiessen, research chem­
ist, U. S. Bureau of Mines, and J. V. 
Stauc, research fellow, Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology, 1923, 
and 34 illustrations.
numbers. The quartette, Dolan, 
Dixon, Brown and Gougiinor, have a 
few new surprises and Aleslim also 
has something new on his balalaika. 
Manager Broudy, now complete mas­
ter of his saw, has several new selec­
tions and we are sure they will be all 
well received by the alumnae and 
friends.
Next Sunday, February 15, the clubs 
will give a concert at Sewickley for 
the Sewickley Horticulture Society.
The dance which was supposed to 
have been on February 1G has been 
postponed to March 7. Entertain­
ment and refreshments will be had 
and very good orchestra is to be ob­
tained,
Dormitories Offer Many 
Services at Low Prices
Carnegie men are very fortunate in 
being able to secure the many facili­
ties offered by the men’s dormitories 
at such a low price. No other room­
ing house is able to offer so many 
comforts at the same cost. s
Tlie dormitories are Very conven­
ient for the students in being so close 
to tlie school and to the commons. 
The student is relieved to a great ex­
tent of tlie duty of keeping his room 
in order as the Institute maintains a' 
staff of eleven chambermaids for that 
purpose. Clean linen bedding is also 
supplied by the Institute. A club 
room, situated in tlie basement of 
Seobell I-Iall, is open for tlie use of 
students at any time for social or re­
ligious gatherings. It is suitably fur­
nished with a piano and comfortable 
Chairs and lounges. An infirmary is 
now being established to care for any 
residents who may he confinod to 
their beds by illness.
In addition to these services, Miss 
Helm, the matron, and a porter aro 
present at all times to look after tho 
coin fort and welfare of the students.
It Is difilcult to realize that all these 
services are rendered for a sum slight­
ly over $2.70 per week.
kindly refrain from osculation, parlor J dent3 ignorant of what the professors
are doing For The Good of Carnegie.
How many of us, for instance, are 
aware of the rather startling remarks 
which President Baker addressed to 
the Clan at New York a few days ago. 
Remarks, which were printed and 
commented upon by papers through­
out the country as being of great in­
terest to everyone. Certainly, if the 
public are interested in such an ad­
dress, how much more should we not 
be, for one might well assume that 
the address, as found on the Alumni 
Page of this issue, is at least a vague 
outline of the way in which our AJma 
Mater will progress in the future.
Only last week, the Pittsburgh 
Press contained a lengthy interview 
by Professor - Fettke, Associate Pro­
fessor of Geology, which created a 
large amount of interest in the chem­
ical circles of the country.
The head of the plumbing depart­
ment was just recently elected First 
Vice President of the American So­
ciety of,Heating and Ventilating En­
gineers. Anyone who has followed up 
the research work being done in the 
plumbing department here will nor 
be surprised to learn that the U. S. 
government approved of the work as 
shown at a recent demonstration in 
the national capital.
athletics, or any othef pastime tend­
ing toward intimate contact. We 
never did like kissing anyway.
Oh, can't I kiss you, sweetheart,
As I fondly bid adieu?
Just a tender little kiss, dear,
To express my love for you.
I’d really love it, dearest,
But Dean Brown says it won’t do,
For should you have the fever,
Then I might catch it, too.
“Distance makes the heart grow 
fonder,” quoth some wise old bird. We 
never knew how fond we were of dis­
tance until the S. F. made its appear­
ance. Most of the fellows in the 
dorms, have their grip all packed. “In 
time of quarantine prepare to travel.”
Dr. Esquerre says that in classroom 
we are safe because ,we face to the 
front and do not depend upon each 
other for mutual support. Couldn't 
the Arts Ball be converted into some 
kind of a sub-aqueous fantasy of the 
Jules Verne type, say “Fifty-thousand 
Legs You Ought to See?” Every one 
could don gas-masks and diving out­
fits and thus avoid the dread contact. 
Besides think of the inexliaustable 
fund of material in the way of cos­
tumes, decorations and novelties this 
would offer to the fertile imagination.
It’s three o’clock in the morning, 
We’ve danced the whole night 
through,
If I wear this rig much longer 
I’ll die dancing with you.
These leaden shoes are provoking, 
They nearly weigh a ton,
Tlie gas mask’s clogged and I’m chok­
ing;
I’ll be glad when this night’s done!
KARL.
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
Music Dept.Aanounces 
HistoricalfRecitals
First of aj Series of Recitals 
Scheduled For Sunday
REGISTRATION PASSES 
FIVE THOUSAND MARK
The exhibit of Fine Printing at The 
Museum has aroused the curiosity of 
people interested in artistic printing 
throughout the world. . The large 
amount which is on exhibit there done 
by Carnegie Faculty is not escaping 
notice.
Thus the gospel of Carnegie Tech is 
brought before the eyes of the public 
constantly through the efforts of the 
Carnegie faculty, and certainly that 
is the sort of advertising which is 
really For The Good of Carnegie.
For instance, during the past few 
days, the following members of the 
various faculties have delivered ad­
dresses in various parts of the coun­
try.
Director Mott, Director Breed, Pro. 
fessors James, Byrnes, Ellis, Burnett, 
Bonnell, Condon, Schoen, Hoyle, Wal­
lace, Grapiu, O’Brien, Kuhii.
At the fourteenth annual exhibition 
of Pittsburgh Architects at the Car­
negie Institute there will be a special 
place of honor for' the work of Pro- 
fessor Grafin, who is connected witli 
Carnegie.
The moral of all this is that we 
should learn to realize that both stu­
dents and faculty are working Foi 
The Good of Carnegie. If both sides 
come to such a realization we will 
come a long ways toward having 
bigger and better Carnegie.
Yours, For The Good of Carnegie;
NEWMAN CLUB HEARS 
SCARLET FEVER BLUES
REMEMBER THE NILE SONG?
•ROSES OF MERCATEL” TO
BE GIVEN IN THEATER
(Continued From Page One.) 
composition in Berlin. While there 
he studied also under Friedrich Koch, 
Carl Thiel and Jose Vianna. DeMotta. 
After ten years abroad, Mr. O'Brien 
returned to America and took up his 
work here at Carnogie in 1912.
, The work that will bo given in the 
theater in the Colloge of Fine Arts 
on the twenty-111’th, is tho opora. in 
ono act, “liosos of Mftreatol,” Tho 
piece will be dene by students of tho 
Music Department assisted by stud­
ent« from tho Department of Drama.
Tho story in the “looses of Marca- 
tol” was brought from Franco by Col­
onel Day. It is a simple but touching 
story of the Great War. A young of­
ficer. in the last hour of his life finds 
in tlie ruins of Mercatel, a deserted 
aud ruined village of the line, a little 
untouched rose garden. From tills 
remaining bit of beauty his imagina­
tion reconstructs the loveliness, 
gaiety and tragedy of the pre-war vil­
lage. Mr. O’Brien took the material 
furnished him and wrote the lyrics in 
_ which the “Roses of Mercatel” tell 
64 pages; their part of the story. The work 
' was produced in the Little Theater in
Total registrations .for this year at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
passed the 5,000 mark this week as 
the result of heavy enrollments in the 
day, evening, and part-time courses. 
New students entering in the mid­
year for the regular clay courses num­
bered 118. This figure, according to a 
report from the Institute, represents 
the largest mid-year entering class in 
the Institute’s history.
The past week has also been a .busy 
one, according to the report, in regis­
tering new students in the evening 
courses. The total night student en­
rollment is now reported as about 
2400. In reaching this number, atten­
tion is called to the fact that about 
650 more students are taking night 
courses at the Institute this year com­
pared to last year’s registration.
Increasing appreciation of the ad­
vantages of the numerous part-time 
courses offered is recorded in the com­
paratively large enrollment of about 
700 students in these groups. A large 
number of part-time students were en­
rolled this week as the result of the 
opening of several special courses in 
home economics given in the Mar­
garet Morrison Carnegie College, and 
a group of short courses in social 
work conducted by the Department of 
Social Work.
Although accurate tabulations are 
not yet available because of the pres­
ent rush of registrations, officials es­
timate that the total enrollment of all 
classes will bo about 5200 at tho end 
of next week.
1921. Mr. O’Brien personally conduct­
ing tho orchestra.
This is not the first time that Mr,
O’Brien lias received recognition as 
a composer of merit and ability. Dur­
ing the Christmas recess Mr. O’Brien 
was made an honorary member of the 
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, a national 
fraternity of musicians. Mr. O’Brien 
is known to most of us on the campus 
as the composer of the music to which 
we sing the Carnegie Alma Mater.
Man (in ebb tide): Help! Help!
I’m drowning.
Man (dozing in sand): Well, why
make so much noise over it.—Torch.
From the Music Department comes 
the announcement of five Historical 
Recitals to be given by the students 
of the department on Sunday even­
ings. The first recital will be held 
in tlie theater in the College of Fine 
Arts on February seventeenth at eight 
thirty o’clock. The program, made up 
of mixed numbers which have been 
selected as representing the spirit of 
the music of the Seventeenth Century, 
follows:
1. Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina
Ricercare for organ 1525-1594.)
The ricercare (research) IS a “mo­
tet without words.” The contrapun­
tal motet of the Netherlander was 
merely transferred to the organ.
From tlio ricercare, in turn, devel- eight, 
oped tlie fugue as we know it today.
Alfred II. Johnson
2. Girolamo Freseobaldi ................
Bergamasco for organ (1583-1643)
Tho “Bergamasca” is a dance-form 
named after the town of Bergamo. 
Freseobaldi here, for the first time 
in \tlie history of organ music, makes 
use of the variation form. The theme 
closely resembles that of the famous 
hymn-lune “O Sanctissima".
Martha Hutson
3. Dietrich Buxtehude-----Fugue in
C major for organ (1637-1707)
Freseobaldi, the Italian, and Buxte­
hude, the Dane, were the great fore­
runners of Bach. The fugal form, in 
particular, before finding its summit 
in Bach, was given a mighty impetus 
by Buxtehude.
John Groth
4. Alessandro Sca.rlatti..............Gia il
sole dal Gauge (1649-1725)
Arcangelo Del Leuto... .Dimmi, Amor 
(15.. -16..).
Alberta Irvine.
Guiseppe S'arti..................Lungi dal
caro bene (1729-1S02).
Allan Nern
Giovanni Paisiello-----Chi vuol la
zingarella (1741-1816).
Ivizzie Murdock
Arcangel Corelli................La Folia
for violin (1653-1713).
Armand Venditti 
Benedetto Marcello. .Sonata in G| 
for ’cello and piano (16S6-1739).
Andante, Allegro, Grave, Allegro 
Ella Scanlon, Katherine Hessler
Antonio Lotti............Pur dicesti, o
bocca bella (1667-1740).
Eva Spencer 
Giulio Caccini. Amarilli, mia 
bella (1546-1614).
Pier Domenico Para^ies. M’ha preso 
alia sua regna (1710-1792).
Juliet Bartletti 
11. Henry Purcell. Golden Sonata 
for two violins, ’cello and piano 
(1659-1695).
Largo, Adagio, Allegro modorato,
Grave, Allegro scherzando 
Marie Kloylo, Edith Jenkins, Ella 
Scanlon, Katherine liossler 
Accompanists—Jeanette Spatliolt,
Matthew N. Frey.
Future recitals will be given on 
March second, when tlie Music of Age 
of Bach and Handel will make up the 
program; March sixteenth, the Music 
of the Classical Peiod; March thir­
tieth, the Music of the Romantic Pe­
riod; and April sixth, the Music of 
the Later Nineteenth Century.
Students especially are urged to at­
tend these recitals. No tickets are 
required.
The mood of the Carnegie students 
present at the Newman Club basket 
ball games last Wednesday inspired 
two of the club’s artists, Charles V. 
O’Connor and Paul G. Sullivan, to 
compose a song that was very appro­
priate.
The two authors gave the first pub­
lic rendition of their song immediate­
ly upon the conclusion of the games. 
Its reception by the audience was en­
thusiastic to the point of vociferance. 
It is regretted that the music cannot 
be printed here. Suffice it to say 
that it was as good as the words of 
the
"Scarlet Fever Blues”
The Engineers have symptoms, 
Maggie Murph is on the rocks,
The School of Arts with fever chills | 
Is quaking in its socks.
We have a new gymnasium,
The finest ever seen,
But what the devil good’s a gym, 
When it’s in quarantine?
We get two weeks’ vacation,
But, Holy Moses, then
We’ll have to make the darn thing up
When summer comes again.
Oh, holy jumping mackerel,
The Institute’s a wreck;
We’ve got the Scarlet Fever Blues 
At old Carnegie Tech.
The dance at the Duquesne Coun­
cil house Friday night proved a sue-1 
cessful and enjoyable affair. Prepa­
ration for the annual Newman Club | 
Formal will be started within a few 
weeks. The date will be announced 
then.
There will be' a meeting in the Ca­
thedral High school tomorrow night
Toujours la Politesse.
A man who hired a motor car which 
had been standing in a' garage 
Bishop’s Stortford, found a wasps' 
nest in a corner of the seat. It is re­
ported that after sitting down he 
rose, politely raised his hat and 
begged their pardon.
—McGill Daily.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus.....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
6.
7.
9.
M. M. SECRETARIALS
EXHORT THEIR FRIENDS
(Continued From, Page One.) 
Eleanor Foster, Miss Frances McCly- 
monds, Miss Louise Mclnnes, Miss 
Gretchen Issel, Miss Dorothy'Reniclc, 
Miss Bernice Kruger, Mrs. James J. 
Dyer, Miss Gertrude Bradshaw, Mrs. 
D. G. Meyers, Mrs. J. C. McCormick, 
Miss Bernice Rentz, Miss Helen Gill­
espie, Miss Ida Finkel and Miss 
Eleanor Moren..
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 o’clock 
—“Building a Working Faith.” 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at 8 o’clock— 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa­
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi­
calism.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
10.
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
The Fisk Uni tiling, New York City 
CARRÉRE & HASTINGS
“Designing in Masses’
T
HE new architecture transcends detail and expresses 
the component solids of the great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles are reared against the 
sky—true expression of structural facts has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely together.
Certainly modem invention—modem engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities or the World

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
VARSITY SCHEDULE j jMERMjjA IMRDDjSST PLAID CAGERS BOW
BEING REARRANGED T0 SH00T F0R TR0PHY TO GENEVA, 36-25
Authorities Cancel All Home 
Games for the Next 
Two Weeks
Circumstance is playing havoc with 
the varsity basket ball schedule. 
Three games were to have been 
played last week, only two oE which 
were actually played; and of these 
two only one was played at the sched­
uled time.
On account of the scarlet fever scare 
which has pervaded the campus, the 
authorities thought it best to call off 
all social gatherings on the campus, 
including athletic events. Fortunate­
ly, the Pitt game was staged before 
the edict which put the taboo on 
games which were to have been 
played last Friday and Saturday night 
against the forces of Grove City and 
Geneva respectively.
The Grove City encounter has befen 
postponed until March 11, and the 
Geneva fracas was disposed of at the 
home of the latter on Friday night. 
Bucknell was to have been met this 
week, but since this team is just stop­
ping off on a trip, .the game has been 
canceled altogether.
The second game with Geneva, orig­
inally slated for the latter’s court, will 
he played here on March 7.
It is hoped that the Penn State 
game scheduled for Saturday night 
will not be affected.
Between February 15 and April 15 
a team of ten men selected from the 
Carnegie R. O. T. C. Engineer Unit 
will shoot for the Society of Ameri­
can Military Engineers’ Trophy.
The team has not yet been selected. 
The men will be chosen from the 
large number who are now practising 
daily. All Engineer Units in the 
United States will compete for the 
trophy.
The University of Iowa team has 
won the competition for two years in 
succession. Carnegie expects to halt 
their string of victories and to get a 
leg on the trophy this spring.
The team which will shoot for the 
William Randolph Hearst Trophy is 
practicing every noon under M. M. 
College. It began a match with the 
University of Nebraska yesterday.
MERMAIDS TO PRACTICE 
IN SCHENLEY HIGH POOL
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason­
able prices on catling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
Damo
"Wlmt did Professor Smith inenn this inorninff when he told you t nit no man could ever make a silk purse out of a sow's ear?" 
Pythias—
“He meant that I’d never be able to do good work with a poor pencil. Guess I’ll have to get a Dixon’s Lldorado. Old Sihity says it's the best drawing pencil made."EdSbO
“¿/he master drawingpencil"
17 leads—all dealers 1
WRIGLEYS
TOW’"'. After . Every Meal
Have a packet in your 
pocket for ever-ready 
refreshment.
Aids digestion.
Allays thirst.
Soothes the throat.
For Quality, Flavor and 
tho Sealed Package,
get i
Now that the plans and dates are 
satisfactorily arranged for the girls’ 
swimming class, an unexpected ob­
stacle has loomed up.
Originally the swimming was 
planned to begin yesterday but the' 
spread of scarlet fever has prevented 
the schedule from being carried out.
It is now expected that the swim­
ming will begin the first Monday af­
ter the ban is lifted.
The S'clienley High pool has been 
secured and will be given over to the 
Carnegie girls from 4 to 4:30 every 
Monday afternoon.
Later in the season the girls expect 
to arrange an interclass swimming 
meet but for the present time only in­
dividual contests will be scheduled.
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
Miss Millyuns—My husband must 
be a gentleman of leisure.
Young Impecune—Then marry me. 
That’s just what I’d like to be.—Bos­
ton Evening Transcript.
The place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.—Sermons.
10 A.M.—Men’s Bible Class.
4 P.M.—Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.—Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.—Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas­
tor, teaches Men’s Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
Stretching Your Income
Only through careful, sys­
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promot­
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu­
tion of their financial prob­lems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbug-^h, Pa.
DAVIES and HUGHES
cJMEN’S WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
ONLY those who have 
smoked Melachrinos 
can judge the quality 
of the finest Turkish 
tobacco.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
“TPL AIL DTHECLSSL Sold SPL UMCNG AvLC’*
Geneva Tossers Too Fast for 
the Skibos, Leading All 
the Way
It was unfortunate that the scarlet 
fever ban placed upon all sports or so­
cial gatherings on tlie Carnegie cam­
pus was not extended to include Ge­
neva College last Friday night. The 
Plaid cagers went down to Beaver 
Falls and were downed by the home 
team by the score of 36 to 25.
If any reader is stirred to mirth or 
anger that the mighty Tartan should 
be vanquished by a college the size 
of Geneva, let us now establish tho 
fact that Geneva has a sweet little 
team, one that can furnish plenty of 
opposition for any team in the dis­
trict. This contest was to have been 
staged in the new Carnegie gym on 
Saturday night, but due to the ban on 
student gatherings, was played on Fri 
day night at the Beaver Fails school.
The chief trouble with the Skibos 
seemed to be a slowness in gettiing 
started; and perhaps a Jack of suffi­
cient playing was also evident, for 
the Plaid schedule has been meeting 
all sorts of obstacles and alterations 
since it first was published.
The score at the end of the first 
half stood at 16 points for Geneva and 
11 for the Tartans. The latter could 
not seem to pierce readily tho de­
fense of the Genevans, and when they 
did, could not correctly guage the dis­
tance of the basket. Geneva exhibit­
ed a smooth style of play which was 
very effective against the visitors.
Captain Anderson arid Reed shared 
scoring honors and each made sev­
eral long shots from difficult positions! 
Mefore and Robertson each scored a 
field goal also. The lineup:
Geneva—36 Carnegie Tech—25
Litschitg............ F..................Anderson
Shupe................. F............................Reed
Clark.................... C.......................Mefort
Danzer................ G....................Mohrman
Heckert.............. G.......................Beede
Substitutions—Hamilton for Heck­
ert, Ray for Danzer, Robertson for 
Reed, Reed for Robertson, Robertson 
for Beede, Beede for Mefort, Defey 
for Robertson, Goodwin for Reed.
Field goals—-Litschitz 4, Shupe 2, 
Clark 5, Danzer 1, Heckert 1, Ander­
son 2, Reed 3, Mefort 1, Robertson 1, 
Foul goals—Litschitz 2 out of 2, Shupe 
4 out of 5, Clark 2 out of 4, Ranzer 1 
out of 3, Heckert 0 out of 2, Ander­
son 3 out of 6, Reed 3 out of 5, Me­
fort 1 out of 2, Beede 1 out of 2, Ham­
ilton 1 out of 2, Robertson 3 out of 5, 
Referee—Weitzel.
CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF 
MAKES INSPECTION TRIPS
The members of the Carnegie Tar­
tan staff were accorded the privilege 
of two inspection trips last week. 
Those who were fortunate enough to 
attend both these trips were well re­
paid inasmuch as both trips were in­
teresting as well as instructive.
On Tuesday, Col. Fairley, Superin­
tendent of Building and Maintenance, 
personally conducted the staff on a 
tour of the school property. The trip 
began in the depths of Machinery 
Hall, included a birds eye view l'rom 
tho Tower, a glimpse into the lnino 
under the Engineering Building, views 
of all the laboratories and workshops, 
a visit to ail tho nooks and corners of 
the Arts Building, inspection of the 
back stage appearance of tho Little 
Theater, a glimpse into the kitchens, 
sewing rooms, and parlors of the Mar­
garet Morrison College, a view of the 
improvements under way under the 
Maggie Murph College, and finally a 
complete round of all the sections of 
the new gymnasium, ending with a 
visit to the tiled swimming pool.
The school tour occupied four hours 
and the Carnegie Tartan heartily 
thanks Col. Fairley for his generous 
contribution of time and knowledge for 
the edification of the staff. Col. Fair­
ley was kept continually busy explain­
ing all the sights on the trips. The 
staff was amazed at the enormous and 
varied amount of high grade equip­
ment and testing apparatus the 
school possesses.
Everyone connected in any way 
with the school ought to make such a 
trip. A broader and more sympathet­
ic appreciation of the versatile aims 
and accomplishments of Carnegie will 
result therefrom.
On Wednesday, the Tartan Staff 
traveled downtown to the plant of 
the Western Newspaper Union where 
through the courtesy of Mr. Interthal, 
in charge of the composing room, and 
Mr. Saunders, in charge of the press 
room, the staff was initiated into the 
mysteries involved in printing the
Carnegie Tartan.
This trip gave to the members pres­
ent an insight into the methods by 
which a modern newspaper emerges 
from mere typewritten copy into the 
printed newspaper. The Carnegie 
Tartan extends its thanks to the
Western Newspaper Union for the
privilege of this inspection trip.
Those members of the staff who 
failed to attend either of these trips 
missed something of inestimable 
value.
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Pago One.)
“we need more music at our assem­
blies. A good orchestra is one of the 
best drawing cards there is, and I 
think there is not a student in the 
school who would refuse to walk to 
the Carnegie Music Hall to hear the 
Collegiate Imps or the Carnegie Tar­
tans. There is plenty of time for both 
a speaker and music, and the two to­
gether make a good program."
The only road to Wisdom is that 
of real and unbiased thought, each 
candidly expressed opinion is a mile­
stone along that road,
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
WHAT IS YOUR ANSWER TO THIS?
For some time there has been a vague thought in our editorial cranium 
that this column is not properly representative of the student body of Car­
negie Tech. If it could be made so, wo have a hunch that more interest 
would be aroused, the influence of which would be felt on tho general athletic 
policy now in effect.
It doesn’t seem quite right that, the opinion of one man. no mattor how- 
well versed he may be in that of which he writes (A-hem), should be sproad 
over a whole column week after week. Sometimes it seems that any sort 
of an editorial column is regarded as something nice to run, but really not 
necessary to Vead.
Now, gentle reader, we are going to try an experiment, one which may 
prove dangerous, or ludicrous at the best. YOU HAVE SOME IDEAS THAT 
WE CAN USE. You have some opinions on various phases of athletics 
which you would like to air before tho spell-bound readers of this luminous 
vehicle of universal light. 1
WILL YOU SEND US THOSE IDEAS? Wo will print all that wo can 
conveniently do. Do you Want to damn this column to perdition? Send in 
your burning epistle, and we shall be pleased (?) to give it space. Do you 
wish to know something about the working or policies of the Athletic Coun­
cil? Ask us. What we don’t know, we take a chance on.
The long and short of the case is this: We are getting blamed tired of 
giving opinions and advice week after week with nobody even murmuring a 
word of disagreement in the hearing of the writer. Of course, wo don’t deny 
that our judgment is infallible or anything like that, but a healthy argument 
now and then is relished by the best of men.
Now, lire away! Our little experiment may he doomed to utter failure., 
but we’re going to have a lot of fun out of it anyhow—maybe. PLEASE 
SIGN ALL COMMUNICATIONS, although only initials will bo used in print, 
or such nom de plume as the writer may prefer.
WE GOTTA HAND IT TO YOU, PITT
You have a mighty smooth team on the basket ball floor, and one to 
whom we were not nearly so sorry to lose as one might think. Your sports­
manship, as shown by both rooters and players, made defeat a.lot easier to 
take than might have been the case otherwise in so close a game.
SAY “A-H-H-H”
New item: Doc Marks, tho local practitioner, is up in arms against a
plot aimed at his’ professional reputation. He claims that a certain frater­
nity had him examine a group of pledges in an effort to find some symptoms 
of scarlet fever, or its equivalent, in the house.
We are glad to report that Bert Munliall, who has been convalescent 
from an attack of grippe, is now occupying his accustomed haunts in tho 
Field House.
Some of us are still laughing at the way Toots Amans made a husky Pitt 
guard look foolish by a certain clever bit of dodging which nearly sent tho 
enemy sprawling, and enabled Toots to make a sonsatlonal shot right 
through the iron loop.
Manager Ellis Robertson of tho track team is hoping that Manager Sam 
Bittner of the basket hall team will have his gang out of tho Held houso in 
time for the first track meot. Tho spring season will ho a busy one for 
Plaid sports, with basket ball, tennis, track and baseball.______________________
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
Pitt33,Vanderbi'lt 31.
Pitt32,Amherst 21.
Pitt31,Geneva 22.
Pith35,Allegheny 30.
Pitt45,Bethany 33.
Pitt23,West Virginia25.
Pitt29,W. and J. 19.
Pitt28,Grove City 29.
Pitt29,Carnegie Tech26.
Pittis,Lafayette 17.
Pitt15,Army 32.
Grovo City 42, Amherst 23.
Grovo City 34, Waynosburg 13. 
Grovo City 31, Tlviol 26.
Grove 'City 22, G'enova 19.
Grovo City1 36, Wostmlnstor 28. 
Grove City 26, West Virginia 30. 
Grovo City 35, W. and J. 23.
Grove City 27, W. andi J. 29.
W. and J. 33, Geneva 22.
W. and J. 33, Bethany 13.
W. and J. 32, Genova 28.
W. and J. 24, Bethany 18.
W. and J. 19, Pitt 29.
W. and J. 23, Grovo City 35.
W. and J. 29, Grovo City 27. 
Geneva 26, Amherst 20.
Geneva 28, Thiel 29.
Genova 22, Pitt 31.
Gonova 22, W. and! .1. 33.
Genova 19, Grovo City 22.
Genova 28, W. and J. 32.
Geneva 23, Allogheny 25.
Geneva 29, Westminster 26.
Goiiova 36, Caraetgdei Toch 25. 
Allegheny 33, Amherst 19. 
Allegheny) 30, Pitt 35.
Allegheny 28, West Virginia 47. 
Allegheny 21, West Virginia 31. 
Allegheny 25, Geneva, 23.
Allegheny 31, Bethany 23. 
Westminster 23, Waynesburg 22. 
Westminster 25, Bethany 15. 
Westminster 26, Genova' 29. 
Westminster .21, Thiel 24. 
Westminster 21, Thiel 38.
Penn State 61, Juniata 13.
Penn State 58, Susquehanna 13. 
Penn State 47, Carnegie Tech 25. 
Penn. State 23, Gettysburg 19.
Penn State 43, Duquesne 30.
West Va. Wesleyan 144, Broaddus 
14.
West Va. Wesleyan 27, Fairmont 
College 9.
West Va. Wesleyan 28, Bethany 12. 
West Va. Wesleyan 25, Fairmont 
College 16.
West Va. Wesleyan 24, Bethany 28.
REMEMBER THE NILE SONG?
SCARLET FEVER SCARE IS 
CAUSE OF BAN ON ALL SOCIAL 
ACTIVITIES ABOUT SCHOOL— 
SITUATION NOT SERIOUS
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
ent, that tho spirit and loyalty of tho 
student has boon appreciated by tho 
Instltuto authorities.
Asks Co-operntlon.
Dr. Esquorro, when lnlorviowod 
said:
“Tho whole student body Is Intrust­
ed to co-operate with tho City Board 
of Health and tho Instltuto Student. 
Health Department, In tlielr endeavor 
to deal olllclontly with the proBont 
outburst of scarlet fever. Wp are not 
having an opidomlc, as will bo read­
ily understood from tho fact that wo 
have had hut eight casos on tho cam­
pus slnco tho outbreak, January ninth.
"Wo l’eol that tho rosponso of tho 
student body would bo more general 
If wo omphaslzo tho fact, that wo aslc 
them not only to glvo up tholr social 
activities on tho campus until tho 
olghtoonth of February, but to abstain 
aIno from frequenting such place» as 
movies, dancing halls and theaters 
outside the campus.
"Wo realize that It hi a good deal 
to ask, hut wo want to bollovo that tho 
wliolo student body as a. unit will ho 
willing to make that' sacrifice for Its 
own good and that of tho Institution, 
“There are no spoclal precautionary 
measures to bo taken against a pos­
sible Infection, it Is a question of 
resistance; plain food, exercise, plon- 
ty of iiloep, and efficient elimination 
are tho best proven tatlvos.”
FOOTBALL STAR NAMED
TO HEAD CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
by the student Council; Campus 
Burlesque, S!am Dyke.
The first meeting of this penoral 
committee will be held tonight, Feb­
ruary 12, in Dr: Baker's office, at 
7:30, and everyone named above is 
urged to be present, for it is im­
portant that things be started off in 
the right manner.
The sub-committee, working under 
the above chairmen will bo announc­
ed at some future date.
Faith and Works.
Golfer: Where’s Mr. McDougal—is 
he coming on?
Caddie: I-Ie’s awa’ back in the bun­
ker. Ah left him wi' his mashie and 
his maker.
—Bystander (London).
j INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL j
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Alpha Tau Omega .................................................................... 2
Acacia .............................................................................. 2
Kappa Sigma Rho.................................................................... 2
McGill .......................................................................................... 2
Beta Sigma Rho ...................................................................... 2
Delta Upsilon ............................................................................ 2
Beta Theta Pi ........................................................................... 2
Delta Chi Rho .......................................................................... 2
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Scohell ................................................................................. 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..................................................... 1.
Kappa Sigma ........................................................................... 1
Woodlawn ................................................................................. 2
Kappa Epsilon ................................................................... 2
Delta Phi Delta ....................................................................... 2
Sigma Epsilon Phi ............................................................ 2
Iota Sigma Delta ................................................................... 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Theta Xi .................................................................................... 2
Pi Kappa Alpha...........................'............................. 1
Welch ........................................................................................ 3
Delta Tau Delta...........•............................................. 2
Delta Mu .................................................................................. 2
Boss .......................................................................................... 2
Henderson ................................................................................ 2
Sigma Nu................................................................................. 0
W.L.Pcb.
201.000
201.000
201.000
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
02.000
W.L.Pet.
201.000
101.000
101.000
11.500
I1.500
02.000
02.000
00.000
W.L.Pet.
201.000
101.000
21.66 G11.50011.50002.00002.000'00.000
PANTHER GRABS HOT 
GAME FROM TARTAN
Thriller Ends in Tie Score 
and Pitt Triumphs in Ex­
tra Period
Tho scarred Panther of last fall got 
a bit of solace last Tuesday night 
when tho Plaid wont down to defeat 
before him, 29-26. Tho game marked 
tho informal opening of our now gym­
nasium and tho immense auditorium 
was packed from floor to floor with a 
crowd estimated at over four thou­
sand. The two cheering sections gave 
vent to a volume of spirit such us has 
not boon heard since the memorable 
meeting on tho gridiron.
Shortly after the sending of tho pre­
liminary game both teams appeared 
on tho floor ready for this important 
contest. The ball was relayed on tho 
floor from Hornbostel to Lanahan, 
then ono of the most hotly contested 
cage games of tho season began.
During tho first half both teams 
were fighting with the spirit that was 
so pronounced on tho gridiron last 
fall when these two sister institutions 
roopenod relations. During this pe­
riod Pitt hold a slight edge of two or 
tlireo points over the Tartan cagers. 
The half ended with Pitt loading by 
two points, tho score being 14-12. 
Amans and Anderson led tho Skibo 
quintet in poiuts whilo Flanigan and 
King held honors for tho Panther 
doormen.
At the beginning of tho second half 
tho Tartans came back strong and al­
though tlioy did not outscoro the Pan­
thers they kept them worried up until 
tho last few minutes of play when An- 
dorson made a long shot from tho cen­
ter of tho floor and tied the score. 
Just as the time was about up for tho 
ond of the gamo a foul was called on 
tho Skibos which loft tho final scoro 
up to King, who failed to make tho 
nooessary point and an extra flvo 
minutes of play had to bo called. 
Shortly aftor piny was rosumod An- 
dorson scored another and tho Tartan 
choorlng section wont almost wild, 
lllllng tho auditorium with choor af­
ter cheer. Tho Pllvt flvo quickly found 
thomsolvos and after making a foul 
scorod soveral moro from tho flold. 
Tho scoro was 29-26 when tho final 
whlstlo blow after this oxtra flvo mln- 
uto period.
Amans and Andorson again lcul tho 
Plaid attack during this period while 
King and Flannlgnn carried tholr 
teammates to victory by scoring tho 
most points for tho Panthers.
Tho lineup:
Carnegie—2(1 Plfct-..29
Andorson............ F................Lovluson
Amans................ F....................Bohron
Mofort................ c...............Plannlgun
Beetle................. G........................Carr
Mohrman............ G........................King
PANTHER CUBS SMOTHER 
PLEBES; SCORE, 30-16
Pitt’s evening was absolutely un­
spoiled last Tuesday when they 
helped christen tho now Skibo gym. 
Not only did tho varsity spoils go to 
tho Bluo and Gold, but so didi tho 
honors in the encounter between tho 
Panther 'Cubs and tho Carueglo 
Plobos. The scoro was 30 to 16 in 
tho latter engagement.
At times tho Plebos showed flash­
es of great form and gave promise 
of overcoming tho load which the 
Pitt Frosh early acquired. But theso 
flashes were greatly outbalanced by 
what may bo called ono great big 
flash on tho part of the visitors 
which lasted throughout tho game.
Tho Plobos fought all tho way, 
but the work of their adversaries was 
a little too smooth, a llttlo too fast, 
for the Plaid yearlings. Tho quality 
of their team work was especially 
noticeable. For tho Plobes, Maurer 
and Lynch led in the scoring, tho 
former makiug two aud tho latter 
three field goals. Snethen played a 
steady game at center, whilo Plum­
mer and Levinson were effective in 
preventing many taiies ifor tho 
enemy.
Tho scoring honors for the Cuhs 
wero moro evenly divided, hut Mayo 
was tho aco in scoring from tho 
flold. Tho linoup:
Plebes—16. Pitt Fresh—30. .
Maurer ................F.................. Hughes
Lynch .................F..................... Mayo
Snethen ...............C............ Campbell
Levinson ..............G............... Richman
Plummer ..............G.........................Black
FOR YOUR NEXT 
MARCEL WAVE 
COLLE’S BEAUTY SHOP 
SUITE 610— HERSCH BLDG. 
339 Fifth Ave. Grant 9493.
BE A NEWSPAPER CORRES­
PONDENT Sh tho Heacoclc 
Plan and earn a good incorno 
whilo learning; wo show yon 
how; begin actual work àfc once; 
all or sparo time; experience un­
necessary; no canvassing; send 
for particulars. Nows writers’ 
Training Bureau, Buffalo, N. Y.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
11wM
F
'«I1
Im
Choice of a Career
From the Yale News
THE NINETY-FOUR
Someone, probably an insurance 
agent, was quoted recently as saying 
that from the mass of one hundred 
collcge graduates one individual only 
rose to the Polo and butler class, peril­
ously near the top of the financial lad­
der. Five others became comfortably 
off and found themselves after twenty 
years at the small yacht and chauffeur 
stage. The other ninety-four presum­
ably congregate in the great section of 
the American people who drive their 
own Euicks to the golf club. In other 
words, dreaming about being a rich 
man is one thing, and making the grade 
is “something else again.”
Yet the ninety-four presumably work 
just as hard as the sumptuous six. Their 
business is the axis on which a small 
and uninteresting world revolves. They 
have become devotees of the dollar 
and when that fickle deity deserts, have 
nowhere else to turn. Jammed in a 
dull, straight rut of business they can 
never leave the road and jump the fence 
into finer fields of life. This, then, is 
the portion of ninety-four men out of 
every hundred now on the campus.
The answer to the problem lies in 
the proper choice of a career.
Between now and Commencement we 
shall have something to ofFcr on the 
subject of “Careers.” Watch for the space 
with the Famous Signature.
Have pcktincye ourfnc-d
RN SRTURDB LEVREAOYTAUUT 
Sixty-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
\ Million dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives.
Lr-
¡83&I
I
I
s
MStlift
ß'/Í-.Í
I
I

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
Clans Find Valiant Defender
The letter attacking the Carnegie Clano han at laat cllclted a reply. The 
one who now writco so effectively In their defence apparently would have 
spoken long ano if he had read the crltlclom at the time it wan puhiiuhcd.
Although a defenoe wan several weeks in appearing It In an earnest and 
powerful one that han arrived. How does it happen that no many Carnegie 
alumni who no doubt felt the same way an the writer lacked the Initiative 
to put their views on paper and send them to the Tartan?
This newspaper can be n clearing ground of alumni opinion on the mat­
ter. If you have a thought of either praise or blame of the clans, which you 
deem worthy of consideration, let It see the light) of publicity.
Mr. II. F. Simpson, J!Mltor-Jn-Clilol',
Carnegie Tartan,
Pittsburgh, l’a.
Dour Sir:I received the Ibbuo of tho Tartan under date of tho 22nd ult., Oil« morn­
ing, in which appears tho letter written by a supposed graduate oJ' Carnegie ¦ Tech, though ho falls to sign his name. He calls lilmsolf a "graduate" and 
that Is about all he Is. Ho certainly is not an Alumnus or his attitude would 
be much different from that expressed in his pin headed letter.
I for one as an alumnus lake exeoption to everything ho says about 
Clans and can state that tho Chicago Clau during tho last year has dono 
considerable to bring the name of Carnegie Tech before the public. Person­
ally, I saw that tho results of all our games appeared in all tho Chicago pa­
pers; I have talked before throe technical high schools and have kept tho 
name in print as much as possible.
Whoever this person is that writes this letter appears to mo to bo the 
hind tliat infest every organization, sit back and take it all In, and then get 
out and howl that they did the thing wrong.
I am not afraid to put my name at tho bottom of my letter and I do 
hope, Mr. Simpson, you will grant me) this favor and mail my letter to this 
so-called “graduate," or else publish it in tho Tartan.
I believe letters of this kind should not bo published In the Tartan unless 
tho person who writes them is bravo enough to put his name at the bottom, 
»veil 1 can write a lottor criticizing the Administration of the Federal Gov­
ernment, tho State, or tho City and got away with'it in big shapo provided I 
don’t put my John Henry at the bottom. This bird deserves a good razzing 
and J for one am bore to toll you that ho is going to get it before he’s 
through.
Yours very truly,
I. T. STARK,
Arts '19.
LCICLAN NEWS
DO YOU KNOW?
That Pitt beat Carnoglo only after 
an extra period was put on the score 
board ?
That tho second semester Is well 
under way, and things are a bit easier 
—for a while?
That the re-examinations will bo 
given in tho latter part of February 
for which ono oxlra day was put on 
the calendar?
That tho Student Relief drive be­
gins today?
That wo slipped up on on tlio Post 
Ball date, but it was duo to scarlet 
fever, not tho usual error?
That the Campus Woolc Committee 
Is beginning to work.
Smiles ÿi^it v back, at
THE PICKLED FRUITS PUT OUT 
BY HEINZ WISE MEN REGARD­
AS TRUE LOVE SIGNS
(Continued From Pago 1) 
effects of candy aro to make her no­
tice that her companion looks at her 
with but ono eye at a time, or that he 
squints or else she Is wondering why 
bis grin is so wide as to reveal the 
utter emptiness of Ills head.
Think of tho happy relations that 
have been broken i’orovor by a harm­
less box of candy. If a man would bo 
a 1YAARTT with tlio ladies, he should 
call armed with a jar of 'Heinz/s best. 
This eliminates the uso of the phrase 
“sweets to tlio sweet”, of course, but 
no doubt another could bo substituted
A suporstltlous scientist or a love­
less spinster would probably announce 
at this point that after all plclclos aro 
a much more auspicious ol'foring of 
implied matrimony than candy, bo- 
cause marriage .and dlsgulsod cucum­
bers aro so alike! You don't think 
tlioy could bo implying that tlioro is 
any vinegar in lioavon?
At any rate, the host way to pro- 
diet tlio number of marriages is to 
I,alto tho Bciuai'O root of tho crop of 
plclclos and publish It, but this can 
never bo dono, for as soon as ono 
tiimpors with a pickle's roots, tho fu­
turity of tbo crop is oiidangcrod, if not 
seriously threatened.
REMEMBER THE NILE SONG?
The Daylight Store
Wo aro offering some real bargains at this time at our store. All 
Overcoats at cent. Swoiitor Goats, Sheep Lined Coats, Rain Coats, 
Mufflers, everything tho latost id,,vie.
Come In and see for yourself the real money savings bargains.
CONNORS & JACOBS
OUTFITTERS FOR MEN 
3709 FORDE8 8TREET OAKLAND
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years' cxporlcnco.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 18S6. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Fisher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
FRANK- BROTOERS
Ti Id i Avo ene Hoollloiwocit mui -iftUi Sluictn.l'WS'oik
Shoo satisfaction means 
stylo and worth.
Exhibit Shops in all tho larger 
cities.
CLEVELAND CLAN
On .January 20, tho Women's Car­
negie Clan of Cleveland was enter­
tained at luncheon in the home of 
MrB. Leonard Fowler, 3888 Scarbor­
ough road. Several of the regular! 
members were unable to attend be­
cause of the inclement weather. Many 
plans for tho future were discussed, 
but most of the business was held 
over for tho February mooting, at | 
which time better weather and a full 
attendance Is hoped for.
Those presenI; were: Martha Pot­
ter Foster, M. M. ’19, Winifred Rice, 
M. M. ’215, Catherine Allen, M. M. '23, 
Dorothy Harlow, M. M. '1!), Mrs. Leon­
ard Fowler '17, Mildred Lawrence, M. 
M, '19, and Miss Frances Vomer, the 
guest of Mildred Lawrence.
Catherine Allen, (522 East 124th 
street, will entertain the Clan on Feb­
ruary 10.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
APPOINT8 NEW INSTRUCTOR
A new member has recently been 
added to the faculty of Carnegie Tech 
Professor K. L. Good, whose services 
were secured at tho beginning of this 
semester, will take up his work as 
instructor in the chemistry depart­
ment of the Science School.
INDUSTRIES MAN 
HEADS OHIO FIRM
The attention of the Alumni is 
called to the address given by Dr. 
Baker at the New York Clan Dinner. 
The essence of the speech has been 
published throughout the country, and 
is of especial Interest to Carnegie Mep 
and Women.
The response to the HAAREN ME­
MORIAL FUND IS SLOW, VERY 
SLOW.
NEW YORK CLAN
Tlio annual New York Clan dinner, 
held on Saturday night, February 2, 
in the Colonial Room of the Hotel Mc- 
Alplu, was a decided success. About 
seventy Carnegie Alumni and boos­
ters wore present. This number in­
cluded the wives of members. The 
New England Clan was represented 
by Dick Arnold, President of the Now 
England Clan, Chuck Charles, Presi­
dent of the Philadelphia Clan, anil 
Miss Dorothy Steinmaclier represent­
ed Philadelphia.
Dr. Thomas S. Baker was present 
and made tho principal address of the 
evening. He explained the work 
which Js being done by the several 
colleges of our school and also made 
a statement as to what ho considered 
the right course for future develop­
ment. His address was well received 
and certainly left each guest bettor in­
formed concerning the work being 
dono at Carnegie.
G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni Executive 
Secretary, gavo a short talk on the 
work which had boon accomplished by 
tho Alumni Federation, not only at 
the school but in other cities. .Tack 
Cameron '1G, President of tho Now 
York Clan was toastmaster. Goorge 
Burgess, Chuck Charles, and several 
other alumni made short talks. An 
up-to-date set of slides giving various 
views of tbo campus, departments, 
and buildings was shown. The even­
ing was concluded in dancing.
GUY HECKER, CARNEGIE 
GRAD, IS MAKING GOOD
Guy C. Hocker, who' attended Car­
noglo in li)08, has made a name for 
himself in the Hold of Eleotrlc Rail­
ways. Having becomo associated 
with the Citizens’ Traction Company 
In Oil City in 1008, Mr. Hooker made 
his life work that of Railway Engl- 
noorlng,
A career which has boon outlined 
for us in the “Providence Tribune,” 
Rhode Island, shows that the work of 
Mr. Hocker Is becoming rocognizod. 
Marly in his life ho fancied the rail­
way work, and followed it through. 
Ho attended Carnegie Tooli for throe 
years, and then wont with the West- 
Inghouso Electric and Manufacturing 
Company an a general engineer.
At a mooting of the Town. Criers» 
which took tho form of a luncheon at 
tho Providonco Blltmoro Hotel on 
January 21, Mr. Hooker delivered an 
address us representativo of tho 
American Electric Railways Associa­
tion. Tho subject on which ho spoko 
was “A Unllled Transportation Sys­
tem is Best for tho Public." When 
tho .Chamber of Commerce engaged 
in tho work of adjusting tho coun­
try’s transportation needs, Mr. Heclt- 
or was tho representative from his 
association who was chosen to serve 
on this committee, which is further 
evidence of his ability in the line 
of electrical transportation systems.
Out of the large number of Clan Graduate of 1911 Advances;! members that read the Carnegie Tar­
tan, one man has found it worth his 
while to write in and voice his disap-
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
“What a whale of a difference just a lew cents make ! ”
all the differcncc 
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and—FATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
Becomes a Leader in 
Brass Industry
Quite a while ago, when Carnegie 
was in the early stages of develop­
ment, when the present College of In­
dustries was known as tlio Appren­
tice and Journeyman's school, a Brad- 
dock boy entered the two year foun­
dry course. This young man, William 
McCombs Ball, better known as Billy 
Ball, graduated with the class of 1911.
Whilo in school, Billy was a good 
student, a hard worker, and was per­
sistent in accomplishing whatever lie 
started. Cap Dosey says “Bjlly Ball 
always finished what he starred.”
After graduation, Mr. Ball entered 
the employ of the Westinghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company of 
East Pittsburgh as* a foreman in the 
brass foundry. Later he moved to the 
die cast department where in a short 
time he became general foreman.
Leaving the East Pittsburgh Com­
pany, Mr. Ball went to Alliance, Ohio, 
to work for the Morgan Engineering 
Company as a foreman in the brass 
foundry. He moved from this posi­
tion to the steel foundry department 
from where he was soon advanced to 
general superintendent of all the Mor­
gan works.
Because of conflicting methods in 
handling some labor difficulties, Mr. 
Ball went to Cincinnati, Ohio, where 
ho entered the employ of the Edna- 
Brass Manufacturing Company with 
whom ho is now connected. Ho is 
at present general superintendent of 
all tho Edna works.
Tho methods of study and work fol­
lowed by Mr. Ball in school have 
been applied by him in his work in 
industry and have been a large con­
tributing factor to his success.
Billy is tho style, of alumnus who 
will make Carnegie famous. He not 
only does credit to himself and his 
Alma Mater by being a leader in in­
dustry but lie takes an active part in 
alumni work. He served on various 
alumni ollices and was a member of 
tho Athletic Board of Control for three 
yearB. Billy takes a keen interest in 
the welfare of the school. This he 
shows by his visits to it. On his 
last trip down he gavo a talk to a 
body of students on “Selling Your 
Education.” He also related some of 
Ills practical experience. This was 
very intorostlng and was well received 
because Billy seems to have* tho re­
cipe.
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
PLEDGESi PUTTING BAN ON 
KISSES CRAMP STYLE
OF DORMITORY MISSES
(Continued' From Pago Ono.) 
Murplis nood apply.) Nevor having 
experienced any such pangs of inim­
itable bliss we can’t answer person­
ally, but tho answer Is obviously "No­
body”. Well, I hat’s Just what tho ar­
dent swains ovidontly deduced,- for 
the foxy fomalos began ruuhlng out 
to the mall boxes 011 cornors heavily 
infested by waiting males. The con­
dition because deplorable and the offi­
cials higher up sought a means of 
curbing this curb market activity. In 
a spasmodic utterance of iron gloved 
authority the following pledge was dis­
tributed, to be signed for better or for 
worse.
I...........................do hereby solemn-
proval. We wish to express our re­
spect to HIM.
CAMPUS WEEK IS' COMING! ARE 
YOU?
We are now at liberty to be a bit 
more specific on the matter of that 
mystery stuff in the February issue 
of The Carnegie Alumnus. READ 
PAGE FIVE. It will pay you.
The classes of 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915 
are to have regular reunions this year. 
All others will have irregular ones 
at the same time. During Campus 
Week, of course.
CONTRIBUTIONS ASKED 
FOR HAAREN MEMORIAL
The Tartan again wishes to appeal 
to you, members of the Alumni, to 
contribute to the fund being gathered 
by Clarence Overend for the erection, 
in the new gymnasium, of a suitable 
memorial to our late Graduate Man­
ager, Frank I-Iaaren.
The work done by Mr. I-Iaaren for 
Carnegie, the work which finally broke 
his health beyond recovery can well 
be appreciated by those who wei'e 
here during the years previous to his 
death. 1-Ie labored for many years to 
put Carnegie upon an equal athletic 
footing with other colleges, and it is 
proper and fitting that some expres­
sion of gratitude to him be placed in 
the new gym. He worked long and 
hard to obtain this building for the 
students of Carnegie but he did not 
live long enough to see the realization 
of his dream.
A subscription blank is printed be­
low which you can mall, together with 
a contribution of twenty-five cents, to 
Clarence Overend, Graduate Manager 
of Athletics.
ly swear and affirm that I will in no 
way meet, treat, beat, or in other man­
ner conduct myself as a gentleman or 
in any way afllliate mj'self socially 
with any co-educational student of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Furthermore, I pledge myself not to 
kiss the young lady of my choice on 
the way homo.
Now tlio.upshot of all tills is most 
tragic. The following telephone con­
versation is an example or the deplor­
able consequences suffered by the 
poor unoffending malo.
“Hello, Frances, old dear. I-Iow1 
chances for a date tonight?"
“Pretty good but say, Frank, old 
boan, did you sign tlio pledge?”
“You can bet your socks I did/ old 
ldd.”
“Woll then you don’t need to come 
down, you moan old thing—ao there!
AFTER THE SPANKING
Susan: Does God love you?
Mother: Yes.
And does I10 love me?
Of course.
There’s something wrong some­
where.
—Buclcnellian.
Cooper: If thirty-two degrees is
freezing, what is the squeezing point?
Duncan: Two in the shade.—Poly
Press.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRON—Secretary, A. C. Sprague, R. F. D. No. 24, Soutli Akron, O.
BALTIMORE—Secretary, P. H. Dickey, 1501 Lexington Building, 
care Orencla Coal Companjr.
BOSTON—Secretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, 'Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALO—Secretary, Robert Porter, 876 Hertel Avenue.
CHICAGO—Secretary, I. S. Stark, care E. Yernon Hill Co., 64 West 
Randolph Street.
CINCINNATI—J. W. Batman, Secretary, care Jolms-Manville Com­
pany, 654 Main Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
CLEVELAND—Secretaiy, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Ave­
nue; Women’s Clan, Secretary, Mildred Lawrence, 2241 Cum- 
mington Road.
CONNECTICUT CLAN—Seeretary-Treasurer, G. R. Holmes, R. Mc- 
Logan Foiuidry Company, New Haven.
DAYTON—G. L. Long, Seeretary-Treasurer, 301 Grafton Avenue.
DETROIT—W. Ray Williams, President, care Westinghouse Electric 
& Manufacturing Company, 1535 Sixth Street, Detroit, Mich.
ERIE—Edwin Gross, Seeretary-Treasurer, care Hammermill Paper 
Company, Erie, Pa.
HARRISBURG—Secretary, John G. Todd, 253 Cumberland Street.
HUNTINGTON—Secretaiy, J. F. De Young, 808 Second Street, E.
JOHNSTOWN—Acting Socretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner Street.
LOS ANGELES—Socretary-Troasurcr, Frederick Kindi, 2201 Min­
eral Avonue.
NEW CASTLE—Acting Secretary, P. AV. Marceau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORK—Secretary, E. M. Grctzlcr, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, N. Y.
NORFOLK—Secretaiy, William H. Sands,“National Bank of Com- 
‘ merce Building.
PHILADELPHIA—Secretary, Miss Ethel M. Fredette, 1007 Eleventh 
Avenue, Moore, Del. Co., Pa.
PITTSBURGH—Secretary, Thomas M. McDonald, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
ST. LOUIS—Acting Secretaiy, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Secretary, A. M. Pringle, 1315 Half St., S. E.
YOUNGSTOWN—Secretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Bou­
levard; Recording Secretary of Women’s Clan, Miss Florence 
A. Flinn, 467 Lorain Street, Sharon, Pa.
YOUNGSTOWN WOMEN’S—Florence A. Flinn, Recording Secre­
taiy, 467 Lorain Street, Sharon, Pa.
Dr. Baker’s Speech Before N. Y. Clan
We are continually looking for a 
system of education which will meet 
the needs of the time. We shall never 
find one. We are giving too much 
importance to methods and not 
enough to substance; too much im­
portance to courses of study and not 
enough to the individual teacher. Col­
lege and school executives are so en­
meshed in a maze of administrative 
details that they are in danger of 
building up systems rather than 
strengthening faculties. The greatest 
need of American education is simpli­
fication. Too many courses are being 
given both in the schools and in the 
colleges. We are sacrificing thor­
oughness as we extend our program of 
work. The public is expecting of the 
colleges training in too mahy kinds 
of vocations. Even in the technical 
schools we could well afford to throw 
overboard some of our specialties and 
focus our efforts upon teaching more 
thoroughly the subjects that are es­
sential in the training of an engineer. 
It is futile to expect to turn out an 
accomplished engineer in four years 
of undergraduate work. We can only 
hope to give him the foundation, and 
the changing technique of his profes­
sion must be learned through practic­
al work.
There are three directions in which 
I expect to see engineering schools 
advance in the next generation. The 
first is research. The work of the en­
gineer has to do largely with the ap­
plications of science. He forms the 
liason between the scientist’s labora­
tory and the industries. The progress 
of his profession depends upon the 
progress of pure science, and it is 
hardly to be expected that an insti­
tution given over to engineering can 
do justice to its students unless they 
are taught a respect for and appre­
ciation of work in the field of pure 
science. And this can only be' ac­
complished by having within the 
faculty physicists and mathematicians 
and chemists who are investigators in 
the branches of science which they 
profess.
The second development which I 
anticipate is the location at the Amer­
ican universities and technical schools 
of institutes or departments which
will be occupied with the solution of 
practical problems for business con­
cerns. Business men are noting more 
and more that science can help many 
branches of industry. They are cre­
ating in their factories what they call 
research departments. In some of the 
large American companies magnifi­
cent scientific work is being done, but 
in most concerns, the work is quite 
elementary. There is necessarily a 
great deal of duplication in the ef­
forts of different organizations. I ex­
pect to see more and more of this 
kind of study concentrated in the 
technical schools. Business men' will 
bring their problems to scientific men 
of the colleges and ask them for help. 
This may mean the development of 
special laboratories and a separate 
staff for industrial work,' but the in­
dustries can well afford to maintain 
such departments and in the end will 
save money by doing so.
Speaking generally, i believe the 
educational institutions of the country 
can be of greater practical service to 
the communities in which they are 
situated; but in the main, their prac­
tical work should be divorced from 
their general educational work. There 
is danger in making the undergrad­
uate courses practical. In the end, 
paradoxical as it may seem, the high­
est practical good can be achieved by 
promoting abstract scientific studies.
[ DO YOU RECALL? j
When the Tustin and Brady street 
cars used to run on Woodlawn ave­
nue, and were hailed as the “Tech 
Special” 1917.
When the Architects didn’t have 
charrette during the Glee Club trip 
19—?
When the Drama Department had 
its first class, under the head of Mr. 
T. W. Stevens, who came here to start 
the department, just ten years ago 
this month? 1914.
When the plays on the campus 
prior to the inauguration of the Drama 
School, were produced by the Marga­
ret Morrison Girls?—before 1914.
You won’t fumble this cap!
Professional jugglers could handle.the old- 
style shaving cream caps and never once drop 
one down the drain or under the bath tub.
But for most of us, this new Williams Hinge- 
Cap puts an end to an ancient nuisance.
Williams Shaving Cream is just as much 
pleasanter to use as is the Hinge-Cap. It 
softens the t?eard with uncanny speed. The 
thicker lather holds the moisture in against 
the skin where it is needed. This lather lu­
bricates the skin, too, so that painful razor 
friction is eliminated. And when your shave 
is done, that famous ingredient in Williams 
which helps the skin, leaves your face cool, 
soothed and refreshed. No coloring matter 
is used in Williams—it is a pure, natural- 
white shaving cream.Williams
Shaving Cream
Put one over
on your beard
.....................1......T
omorrow morning give
your beard a surprise. Show 
it who’s boss. With a Rubberset 
Brush and just 9 seconds’ time 
you can slip so much lather in 
about the roots of each hair, that 
every single one will have to 
stand up and take its medicine.
Only a wonderfully supple 
brush ... having fine full bristles 
with just the proper degree of 
stiffness to give the correct mas­
saging effect... can possibly bring 
such speed—such cool, soothing 
comfort. Without such a brush 
the keenest razor soon dulls, 
pulls and scrapes.
Gripped in rubber— 
guaranteed
