HOME CONCERT 
j MUSIC HALL AND SCHENLEY 
NEXT FRIDAY
INDUSTRIES SMOKER 
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT 
7:30, UNION
VOL. XIX No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1925
ANNUAL SMOKE 
OF INDUSTRIES 
MEN SATURDAY
Most Representative Senior 
in Industries Will be 
Chosen by Ballot
To Dedicate Name Plates For Girls’ PLEBES TO ACT
REV. W. G. ENGLAR WILL BE
NEXT SPEAKER AT CHAPEL,
Dorms at Forbes Hall on March 29
MUSIC, MOVIES, EATS, 
SMOKES, STUNTS, PEP
Departments to Compete For 
Alpha Tau Stunt Contest 
Loving Cup
In the Union, Saturday night, at 
7:30, the elaborate iplans for the big 
Industries Smoker will be consuma- 
ted. A program of infinite variety, 
composed of a pleasing proportion of 
eye, ear, and taste entertainment, 
will be run off in finished style, as 
a result of the diligent work of the 
committee:
The program consists of:
Several numbers — All-Industries 
Orchestra.
Movie Comedy.
Songs and yells.
Alha Tau Stunt.
Alpha Tau Pledge Call.
Machine Production Stunt.
Nominations for Most Popular 
Senior, and Balloting.
Printing Department Stunt.
Announcement of ** Most Popular 
Senior.
Building Construction Stunt.
Presentation of Inter-Fraternity 
Swimming Cup.
Announcement of Winner in 'Stunt 
Contost.
Sid Forbes, president of the Indus­
tries Sophomores, is getting together 
an orchestra, who will be on hand to 
fill in any extra moments during the 
evening. It does not seem as though 
they will have many chances.
Dick Hawke, one of Carnegie’s, best 
cheer leaders, will lead the songs and 
yells. Dick knows how to pep up 
any party.
The Alpha Tau Stunt Team is not 
in Ale competition for the beautiful 
cup that Alpha Tau honorary has 
donated, but will act as a pace-maker 
for the departments—and they will 
set a fast pace too. Dean Morris will 
make the Alpha Tau pledge call fol­
lowing their stunt.
The machine productionists have 
managed to hide their plans in an 
impenetrable cloak of mystery, but 
promise a dark horse capable of hold­
ing its own.
Much interest is being shown in 
the election of the most representa­
tive Carnegie man iu the Industries 
Senior Class, and the balloting 
seems likely to result in a close fin­
ish. Dick Rowley, president of the 
Industries Junior Class, will conduct 
the election. In order to facilitate 
matters, it has been decided to call 
for nominations, rather than hold an 
(Continued on Page T)VO.)
Concessions Granted 
For Campus Week
Six Men and Organizations 
to Profit
Concessions for the sale. of goods 
during Campus week were granted at 
the last general committee meeting, 
where petitions previously submitted 
were considered.
O. B. Newman has been selected as 
the Soft Drink caterer, Coney Island 
Hot Dogs are to be devised and ad­
ministered by Hoffer Sload and Clar­
ence Lundquist, while the Ice Cream 
is to be sold by Dwight Beede and 
Jack Harris. Checking at all events 
other than dances 'will be entrusted 
to George Dulin and D. C. L’Heureux 
who promise a non-compact system. 
The intersorority Council "«ill ° offer 
the sweets, smokes and refreshments 
at the Show, but the sale of these 
same articles on the Campus will be 
alloted to the Carnegie Guild.
Concessions are alloted to the indi­
viduals who have done the most for 
the school and are capable of render­
ing the service. In their selections 
the committee has attempted to re­
ward the able and deserving.
BIBLE STUDY GROUP
TO BE FORMED BY Y. M. C. A.
A bible study group is being form­
ed under the auspiecs of the Y. M. 
C. A. to hold a series of meetings 
from the present time until Easter. 
The class has a special significance 
during the lenten period, and Secre­
tary Davis hopes that a sufficient 
number will be interested to make 
the class worth while.
TWO BRASS CANDLESTICKS
LOST AT M. M. DANCE
During the Margaret Morrison 
Dance last Saturday night, two brass 
candlesticks were thoughtlessly re­
moved from a table in the Union 
lobby. The candlesticks, although of 
little value to the one who picked 
them up, were of priceless value to 
the owner, Ruth Bower. They were 
family heirlooms and cannot be re­
placed. It is hoped that the one who 
carelessly removed the candlesticks 
will be kind enough to return them 
either to The Tartan Office or to Miss 
Moore’s office in Margaret Morrison, 
now that their value to Miss Bower 
has been made public.
Plans have been completed to have 
the name plates for the girls’ dormi­
tories dedicated on Sunday, March 
29. The last two plates will be fin­
ished by the end of this week, ready 
to be set up.
Louise Boggess, a senior in Mar­
garet Morrison, will have charge of 
the dedication. This will be in the 
foriTi of a tea in Forbes Hall on Sun­
day, afternoon, at winch a number of 
the faculty and members of the Car­
negie Board of Trustees will be pre­
sent. A short program will be pre­
sented.
The new names for the dormitories 
are as follows:
Birch, Mellon Annex; Cypress, 
5064 Forbes street; Elm. 5072 Forbes 
street; Hawthorne, 5080 Forbes 
street; Laurel, 5100 Forbes street; 
Linden, 5150 Forbes street; Magno­
lia. 5151 Woodlawn avenue; Maple,
THE E00L NEXT 
TUESDAY, 11:301=
at 11:10 to Complete Their 
Preparations
5147 Woodlawn avenue; Oak, 5143 
Woodlawn avenue; Spruce, 5141
Woodlawn avenue; Sycamore, 5137 
Woodlawn avenue; Walnut, 5133
Woodlawn avenue; Willow, 5125
Woodlawn avenue.
This occasion is the culmination of 
an ohl dream, first mention of which I 
was made in The Tartan early in j 
the first semester of last year.
The design for the plates was made ! 
by Mr. Chalfant, a graduate of tho ¦TO FREE WINNERS 
Department of Architecture, and was 
changed into the form of a shield by 
Mrs. Sue Watson Marshall. The pat­
terns and castings were made here 
under the supervision of Mr. Dosey, 
head of the foundry department.
It is believed that a great deal of 
confusion will be done away with 
under this system of identifying the 
dormitories, because of less similar­
ity among names than among mem­
bers.
• The Rev. W. G. Englar, pastor of 
the North Highland Avenue Bethany 
Lutheran Church, has consented to 
| address the students at chapel ser- 
'luirsclay. Rev. Knglar is very 
well known in all districts in and I j
____________ j out of Pittsburgh. His talk will be j
\xr'ii i t~' j well worth listening to, and all stu- Ifreshmen Will be Excused dont« are invited to hear him ¿peak, j
or- I-
VARIED PROGRAM TO BE GIVEN 
AT MUSICAL CLUBS CONCERT
ir———————————————
To Sing With Imps
At Home Concert
SENIORS DANCE IN WILL DISTRIBUTE
ISLE OF PARADISE
Palms Transform Union at 
Annual Formal Affair 
of Graduating Class
L.H. HARRIS CHAIRMAN
Entranced by the enchanting de­
corations, captivated by the delight­
ful music, pleased Deyond measure by 
all the efforts of the committee to 
insure a joyous evening, a hundred 
couples swayed and pirouetted gaily 
about the floor of the Union at the 
Senior Ball last Friday night.
C.W. COURIER DAILY
Journalistic Fraternities to 
Edit Spectacular Paper 
For Campus Week
TO HAVE LATESTNEWS
OF REGULATIONS
Andrews .Heads Four School 
Committee in Charge of 
All Fool’s Day
j William Dell has been appointed or 
; ganist. Meredith Stump, violinist,
| will give several solos.
WILL PRESENT CUP 
TO PRETTIEST GIRL
The Campus Week publication this 
year is to be called The Campus 
Week Courier and is to be a news­
paper rather than a comic sheet. 
Four years ago the idea of the Cour­
ier was used with much success. The 
paper will be written up at night 
and delivered at the fraternities and 
dormitories before sevdn-thirty every 
morning, so it will contain the latest
Though perhaps the most formal j news. Thero is a possibility that it; 
affair of the season, the dance was j may be enlarged to include eight 
held upon the campus, its unqualified pages instead of the usual i’our.
success resulting largely from the 
thorough work of J. M. Barber, H. A. 
Weideli, J. MT Guthrie, Bun Young, 
and O. B. Newman, under the enthu­
siastic leadership of L. Herdman 
Harris, III.
"Paradise Isle” was 'the motif 
chosen for.the decorations. Palms of 
all varities, little palms, big palms, 
strange palms, suggestive of the 
Orient, cultured palms that might 
have graced the Boston Tea Party, 
concealed awkward corners and pro­
duced delightful little nooks.
Heavy drapes, joined by strings of 
roses, hid the walls and concealed 
the banks of lights in the corners. 
Four big lamps hung from the tell­
ing and shed a dim red glow over 
the gliding groups below, while 
smoke slowly curled from a gro­
tesque incense burner pendant over 
the center of the floor to lend its 
perfumed breath to the dreamy at­
mosphere.
/Occasionally a couple slipped from 
the exotic surroundings to si]» a 
glass of punch in the lobby, while 
others found interest behind the 
screen of guardian palms. Ice cream 
and cake were served at midnight, 
and then the dancers again yielded 
to the vibrant strains of the Colle­
giate Imps.
At one a. m., the spell broke, and 
as the departing couples passed un­
der the portal canopy, they sighed 
and consecrated the memory of the 
evening to the small section devoted 
to dearest recollections.
THETA XI HOST TO PROFS AT
FACULTY SMOKER TONIGHT
All men connected with the faculty 
and administration of the school are 
invited to attend the second annual 
Faculty Smoker given by the Theta 
Xi Fraternity at the latter’s chapter 
house tonight.
It is to be especially understood 
that personal invitations are not 
necessary, and that the faculty men 
are free to come and go as they 
choose. The affair is to be quite in­
formal, and will be over at an 6arly 
hour. It is scheduled to start at 
about eight o’clock.
Pi Delta Epsilon and Pi Sigma Tau, 
the two journalistic lionoraries, are 
to run The Courier. The staff, which 
has already been selected, is com­
posed of members of those fraterni­
ties. This is the first year that Pi 
Sigma Tau has taken any part, this 
being only the second year of its 
existence.
A. S. Andrews is to be editor, and 
Peg McFall associate editor, George 
Carl, business manager, and Artlo 
Buhr,. circulation manager. The edi­
torial staff is composed of Fred Ros- 
ini, A. E. Krogh, Lois Snyder, and 
Estelle Garibaldi.
Tho Courier will be one of, the fea­
tures of Campus Week as last year 
was The Sporran and the year before 
The Scavenger. In this sheet the 
spirit of Campus Week will bo em­
bodied. It is expected that The Cour­
ier will take a prominent place in 
the Campus Week of 1925.
The traditional All Fool’s Day, 
when all- freshmen have a chance to 
permanently lay aside plebe regula­
tions, is dated this year for March 
31. Elaborate plans have been for­
mulated and if they are well carried 
out will undoubtedly make this event 
the most successful ono of its kind 
ever held at Carnegie.
The festivities will start at 11:30 
a. m., and will last until 1:30 p. m. 
From the manner in which the plebes 
are pilfering wardrobes, trunks, and 
closets in search of all manner of 
grotesque wearing apparel shows 
that they are entering heartily into 
the spirit of the occasion.
Eplicit instructions have been is­
sued to tho Four School Committee, 
the assembly chairman, and the 
judges, and there will be no- delay in 
the start of the assemblies or in the 
start of the parade. The members of 
the Four School Committee have 
thoroughly aroused the Interest, of 
the plebes in the affair, and things 
have been prepared so carefully that 
they should work together with 
cloc.k-llke precision.
The list of the Four tichqol Com­
mittee and the Divisional 'Committee 
is as follows:
General Four School Committee— 
A. 'S. Andrews, chairman; F. D. Ros­
sini, publicity
KILTIES TO LEAVE FOR 
EASTERN TRIP APRIL
Arts and Margaret Morrison 
Tied, With Two Judges 
Still Undecided
WINNER TO KEEP CUP
A feature of the next General As­
sembly April 21. will be tho presen­
tation of a silver loving cup to tho 
winner of the 1925 Beauty Contest. 
The cup is being given by the Thistle 
and will be the ¡property of the girl 
who receives first placo. Aside from 
receiving this cup^ the name of tho 
winner will also be engraved on the 
cup which was given last year, and 
this trophy will be kept on exhibition 
in the girls’ club room in tho now 
gym. This cup will be left thoro as 
a permaneut rocord of the results of 
each year's beauty contost, tho
names being addod from year toyoar.
The opinion of Tony Sarg, as to 
the most beautiful girl, has already 
been received; but tho othor two 
judges Harrison Fisher and Chnrlos 
D. Williams seom to be having a lit­
tle moro trouble in deciding tho win­
ners, and as yet have not forwarded 
their results. | The final decision will
probably bo announcod sometime
within the next week or ton days.
Pictures of tho twenty-fivcf,' select­
ed to be sent to the judges, woro 
published in a roc'ont Sunday edition 
of the "Press" and the photos of tho 
Josephine Day, sec-1 six best will bo given wide space in 
retary; D. V. Beede, Industries; A. jail tho Pittsburgh papers. A clipping 
E. Krogh, Scionce; Estelle Garibaldi, syndicate,, employed by the school 
Margaret Morrison; ; 'Margaret Tay- last year, sent, pictures and clippings
Six Carnegie Musical Groups 
Will Take Part in Fri­
day’s Program
DANCE AT SCHENLEY 
AFTER CONCERT
OBIE NEWMAN
Tau Beta Pi to Call 
Men at Joint Assembly
Science - Industries Assembly 
Proves Popular
Juniors May Apply For 
Engineering Scholarship
For a number of years it has been 
the custom of the Carnegie Engineer­
ing Alumni Association to give a 
scholarship in memory of George H. 
Smith.
This scholarship is awarded to a 
worthy Engineering Junior each year 
and is to help defray his expenses 
during his senior year at Carnegie. 
In awarding this scholarship, the ap­
plicant's scholastic standing, person­
al need, personality, and participa 
tion in school and class activities all 
are considered by the Committee of 
Awards.
Any junior in need of financial aid 
for his senior year, if he has no 
scholastic difficulties, will find it 
worth the time and effort necessary 
to call at the Alumni Office for a 
George H. Smith scholarship blank, 
and to give the information asked.
Applications will be received by 
the Committee of Awards as late as 
April 3, 1925, but those considering 
this offer, are asked to attend to tho 
matter at an early date.
The Kiltie Band will leave on its 
eastern trip April G. The evening be­
fore, Aprjl 5, they are going to play 
at- the Point . Breeze Presbyterian 
Church. Their concert at the church 
is to be broadcasted in order to give 
radio fans a chance to hear it.
On April 6, the Kilties’ leave for 
Johnstown, Pa., the first stop on their 
extensive eastern trip, under the per­
sonal supervision ¦ of Manager Dave 
Garber. The trip is to be of greater 
magnitude than any other ever taken 
by a college band. Manager Garber 
intends to introduce many novelties 
while on the trip, most notably the 
"Jazz Orchestra." This orchestra 
will play for dances which are to be 
held after the Kiltie Band’s concerts.
Si Owens, business manager of the 
band, who has done wonderful work 
in assisting Dave in preparation for 
j the trip, announces that he will have 
complete plans ready for The Tar­
tan’s next issue.
Manager Garber will have his Kil­
tie Band on the Campus and primed 
for actfon on All Fool’s Day, April 
31. This attraction alone is almost 
enough to make All Fool’s Day a suc­
cess.
PLEBES OF AT 11:10
All plebes will be excused at 11:10 
on Tuesday, the 31st, in order to give 
them ample time to dress for the 
Fool’s Day exercises.
ONE ON PROFESSOR STANTON
lor. Arts,
Divisional Committ'-cs—Industries. 
IVf. D. Kallefelz, chairman assembly; 
Harry Schwab, Judge; A. E. Mollor, 
R. R. Rowley, Sid Forbes. Jury; S. 
Levison, parade marshall.
Science. D. A. Gardner, chairman 
assembly; Robert Bier, judge; J. E. 
Slye, Joe Raddin, L. Flowors, jury; 
L. R. Sheppard, parade marshall.
Arts. Ohio Newman, chairman as­
sembly; R. R. Young, judgo; I-Iofor 
Sload, Mike Goodwin, Wally Lynch, 
jury; Red .Porreton, parade marshall.
Margaret Morrison. Mary S'toump- 
fle, chairman assembly; Borrilce 
Rentz, judge; Helen Gillosplo, Made­
line Dale. Emily Fulton, Jury; Elea­
nor«) McCann, parade marshall.
PI DELT’S WILL SEND TWO
MEN TO NAT’L CONVENTION
Two representatives will bo sent 
by tho local chapter of Pi Delta Ep­
silon fraternity, men’s journalistic 
honorary to that organization's na­
tional convention at Syracuse, New 
York, on April 2, 3, and 4. The two 
selected are Don Gardner, editor-in- 
chief of The. Puppet, and * Fred C. 
Smith, editor-in-chief of The Tartan. 
John F. Smaney, business manager of 
The Puppet has been named alter­
nate.
Pi Delta Epsilon was organized at 
Syracuse University in 1909 for the
of tho winner, Miss Roslyn Scott
Tau Bota Pi, honorary engineering 
scholastic fraternity will call its 
plodgos for this spring at the com­
bined Scionce and Industries Assemb­
ly which will bo hold in Room 218 
Science, today.
Tau Bota Pi holds its pledging and 
initiation both In tlvo spring and fall. 
To bo eligible t’or this fraternity, one 
must be tho hlghost sophomoro in 
tho upper eight, of tho junior class, or
Reserved Seats at Y. M. C. A. 
Office and Mellor’s Music 
Store
Croni papers ¡ind mugolino» of every , Ul0 uppol. ,]uartor or UlB B0M|01. c|„s„ 
corner of tho United States,
Moving pictures will also be takon 
of an informal presentation of tho 
cup, nnd will bo shown iu many of 
tho local and out-of-town thoators. 
Continued efforts to obtain tho names 
of the winnors thus far from Kllno 
Fulmer liavo boon In vain, with tho 
oxeoption that the placos aro ovonly 
divided among Arts and “Maggie 
Murph,” while tho first- place still re­
mains in the same department as last 
yoar.
ALICE MOORE’S STORY 
WINS SHILLING PRIZE
At the combined assembly of Mar­
garet Morrison and Arts students hold 
in the Little Theater last week, Jan­
et Perry, oditor-in-chiof of Tho Shill­
ing, made known tho winner of Tho 
Shilling Short Story Contest, and 
awarded tho prlzo of $20. Tho prize 
winner waa Alice Mooro, HOMECE 
story “Plain Vanilla," was judged 
the best of the many stories which 
were submitted. Margaret Eck- 
hardt’s story, “Gold," was awarded 
honorable mention.
Miss Moore is a junior in tho Eng­
lish Minor department in Margaret
in tho College of Engineering. Its 
purpose is to confor distinction upon 
tiloso students who liavo maintained 
a. high grade of scholarship and liavo 
been activo In school affairs.
Tho men called today will bo from 
tho upper eight of tho Junior class 
In tho College of Engineering. Men 
who aro In tho uppor quarter of tho 
same class at tho end of tho yoar will 
bo eligible for- consideration in tho 
elections of nóxt fall.
Tho socond Joint Assembly of in­
dustries and Science upporelassmen, 
held In Room 218 Science building 
last Tuesday, provided a diversity of 
ontortalnmont acceptable to the most 
fastidious of the one hundred and 
fifty men in attondaiico.
Music In abundance was ti feature 
of tho hour. Tho Carneglan Orches­
tra, who woro publicly thanked for 
thoir good work and co-operation In 
the Scionco Stag at tho Assembly, 
opened with a few numbers and play- 
od several additional plocos lator. As 
an added attraction, an old grind or­
gan was brought up, and whlnod out 
harmony during tho showing of tho 
peppy Mack 'Sonnett movie comedy 
that brought the assembly to a close.
Al Mlnotti, head cheerleader, was 
there, and lead the fellows in songsMorrison, and Miss Eckhardt isojittuuae umviii »iLy ui NRTjU MTM tins I | wiero, uuu loun
purposo ol’ recognizing journalistic L onlor,e " 10 Jrflnui department anj y0nfli The men responded heart'|fn tho eollege °f Flno Art». Doth , ospec|ally wlleI1 Mlnottl c„llo(,
Mias Moore and Miss Eekhardt nro foi. a gkl„0„ ( T|mo 
regular contributors to The Shilling.
The two stories are published in the 
issue of The Shilling which will go 
on sale next Monday.
ability and service on college papers 
and publications. It consists of thir­
ty-seven active chapters in schools 
representing all sections of the coun­
try. In 19B3, Carnegie was granted 
a chapter, which has grown steadily 
ever since.
MISS MILDRED M. TOOGOOD
WINS BEAUX ARTS AWARD
Miss Mildred M.“Toogood, a Senior 
student of interior decorations, was 
awarded a second mention in a judg­
ment of student work recently con­
ducted by the Beaux-Arts Institute; 
of Design in New Yoik City. Mer- 
Professor Stanton had a good one don R. Busier, a Junior in interior 
pulled on him innocently by one of decoration, won a first mention, 
the school painters who, under “De- The problem was a design of mos- 
scription of Work Performed” on his > aics for a chapel. The competition 
time card filled in the following "Re-1 was entered by students of the lead- 
pairing the World for Stanton.” ing art schools in the country.
GRILL ROOM WILL BE OPEN
DURING EASTER VACATION
a panto- 
gawky
The grill room in ¦ the old Field 
House will remain open during the 
Easter recess if the students afford 
It sufficient patronage to warrant 
such action. While' it would be much 
more convenient to close the grill i 
room over the vacation, the adminis-1 
tration in consideration of the stu- j 
dents who will remain on the campus j 
during that period has decided to 
continue its service unless the stu­
dents do not show a disposition to 
take advantage of the extra con­
sideration.
plebe dramat, who gave 
mime representation of 
young lady at the movies.
These joint assemblies aro very en­
joyable, and are effecting the great­
er solidification of the school, and a 
revival of interest in the semi-social 
events that play an important part 
in campus life.
Students of Music Dept, 
in Recital March29
Dr. Williamson Studies Campus Fraternities;
Report Contains Criticisms and Suggestions
The cause of so many freshman 
failures has become a momentous 
problem at Carnegie. The local 
chapter of the American Association 
of University Professors are. making 
an effort to bring out the facts from 
an unbiased viewpoint.
Forty-seven per cent of the male 
students belong to the nineteen fra­
ternities at Carnegie and of these 
twenty per cent are pledges and 
freshmen. This number of students 
combined with the dormitory stu­
dents, who are in a similar predica­
ment, are sufficiently large to justify 
an unprejudiced investigation into 
fraternities as to the origin of a poor 
start in college.
Professor Charles Williamson of 
the Physics department, who is ac­
tive in Fraternity circles, says:
“The modern college fraternity has 
arisen to meet a demand; the multi­
plication of fraternal orders and oth­
er societies will show this demand I tornity chapter can give to keep tho 
has a real existence. It is usual to candidate for such distinctions suf- 
represent this demand as a desire , ficlently 011 the job to earn them, 
for companionship, I think, the basic | "The returns from a circular letter 
reason for the college fraternity. It i Indicate a poor start probably duo 
seems to me that a man Joins a fra-1 to the present rushing rule. The fra­
ternity more from a wish for distlnc- ternltles “throw" parties In rapid 
tlon and as an antidote to the feel-1 succession for several weeks, Thus, 
ing of inferiority which is thrust up-1 the fraternities seo little but the so­
on him as a freshman. Upperclass-1 cial and athletfc pedigree of a man 
„„,1  -----<ii"— 1. I while tho freshman feels himself Inmen and alumni have dinned* Into Ills 
ears with a frequency and vigor that 
seems Incredible, the allegations 
that he is insignificant beyond mea­
sure, yet must achieve at once popu­
lar distinction if he is ever to earn 
prominence in the world; and it is 
represented that only a fraternity 
man can earn the approbation of his
a whirl of attention and flattering ad­
vice concerning tho ease of studies.
The freshman, consequently, Is deal-1 
ing with an artificial fraternity face 
and does not begin studying for a 
month. c,
“The question evidently resolvos 
itself into the alteration of the pre- 
claBsmatea. As a matter of fact, this 1 sent rushing rules. Hence, point-j Helen Szafran, Francis Kleyle,
is not far wrong, since campus ap- j ers from older schools and universl- I Marie Kleyle. Paul Kleyle,
proval is given only for athletics on ¡ties gained'years of second semester Dorothy Trombley
office holding of some kind; and it j and even second year rushing would j Accompanists
takes the co-operation which a fra-'l be acceptable to our new school.” I Alice Nelson, Carolyn Gray
Next Sunday evening, March 29, 
the students of the Music Depart­
ment will give a varied program of 
organ, voice, violin, piano and en­
semble music in tbe Little Arts Thea­
ter. This is the fourth of a series 
of Sunday night recitals given by the 
department.
The program is as follows:
1. Bonnet. Variations de Concert. 
Widor. Toccata from Fifth Sym­
phony.
Harold E. Schunoman
2. Nnchez, Gipsy Dance, No, 1.
Harry Singer
3. Debussy. Polssons d’or.
Debussoy. La Soiree dans Gran- 
ade,
Helen S'zafran 
Schubert', FruhlJngsglaube. 
Schubert. Ihr Bild.
Schubert. Aui’ dein Wanner zu 
slngeri/
Bessie WoJrich 
5. Beethoven. First movement, Pi­
ano Sonata Op. 57.
Godowslcy. Wionerisch (Vien­
nese).
Katherine I-Iessler 
Dvorak. Plano Quintet in A ma­
jor, Op. 81.
Allegro ma non tan to.
The gala musical event' of the year, 
the annual Homo Concert of the com­
bined Musical Clubs, is on the calen­
dar for next Friday evening at the 
Carnegie Music. Hall. As a perfect 
finish to the night, a dance superb 
will occupy the ballroom of the- 
Schenley Hotel until the clock tolls 
off tho hour of two.
A typical college program will be 
given this year, the numbers being 
of a light and peppy nature, and in­
terspersed with many novel features 
and specialty stunts. The Clubs 
have received splendid training on 
their trips, and aro prepared to make . 
a splendid showing. It is common 
knowledge 011 tho campus that the- 
musicians liavo tho host talent that 
the school has over had.
The Colleglato Imps will be n fen-- 
ture number 011 tho program, and will 
be assisted by tho ono and only Obie 
Nowmnn and the ever humorous Al 
Mlnottl. Obie promises a now de­
parture In character singing, that will 
be sure to bring tho houso down, and 
Minettl will bo there- with his humor 
to say nothing of his clever dancing.
Jack Gumbort who has mado such 
a hi tv 011 the road with his sonorous 
barll.0110 voioe, will sing a. couple of 
numbers that are sure to ploaso. Eva 
Sponcor and Al Norn will sing “Doop 
In My Heart, Dear”, a duet from the 
New York musical comedy hit, “Tho 
Student Prince", that has boon taking 
Broadway by storm.
Wurron Kimball lias boon coached 
In a wonderful fantastic danco !>y 
Madame Karpova, and It Is a spec­
tacle well worth seeing. It Is a por­
trayal of tho various emotions In 
dancing, and vivid costumos nnd 
lighting effects are used. Tho ever 
poular Aloshln will play Ills Balalai­
ka accompanied by Ills partner Me* 
Vay on the Ukololo. This number 
never falls to draw a big hand.
Tho two quartets will bo on hand 
to harmonize to tho satisfaction of 
«ill. Sovoral new catchy numbers 
have been worked up ospoclally for 
this big ovonlng. A feature that has 
just boon announcod Is a reading by 
Esther McGuire, a talented student 
of the Drama Department, hi <\on- 
nootlon with tho singing of Booth- 
ovon's Minuet by the Girls’ Glee (Hub. 
Eleanor Campbell and Dess a Lazlch 
have arranged a very Interesting 
danco that (Its In vory good with tho 
music.
All of this glittering array of tal- 
Contlnuod, on Pago Two.)
Seventy Slogans
Submitted So Far
Quanity Not Quality Marks 
Contest For $20 Prize
Some seventy, odd slogans for 
Campus Week liavo already been sub­
mitted In competition for the twenty 
dollar prize, but tho committee is not 
unduly enthusiastic ovor the offer­
ings. Indeed in a school which ca.n 
produce a Puppot it seoms odd that 
nothing more original in the line of 
slogans has boon forthcoming.
About forty of those submitted may 
be found along the illustrated frieze 
of any street car Interior. "Let’s 
meet and eat at (! C. W.” appeared 
with variations not less than seven 
times, and offers to walk distances 
from ono milo to ten for Campus 
Week were good for five more.
The committee wants something 
fresh, bright and original, not snatch­
ed from a Campbell Soup ad, but tho 
brain child of Lhe writer, carefully 
nurtured arid thoughtfully developed 
into a highly polished, well groomed- 
slogan. Spontaniety and pep are es­
sential, and the wording must be 
brief, concise and aggressive, yet 
modulated to secure the personal ap­
peal and delicate touch of persu­
asiveness.
Any slogan offering this combina­
tion Is assured of acceptance and tho 
committee hopos that the coming 
week may seo Its doslros roqulttod. 
All contributions must be typewrit­
ten and sent to W. Winning, care of 
0. I. T. Post Office before April 1st.
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS!
Positions on tho advertising staff 
of The Tartan aro now open. To bo 
on tho advertising staff of The Tar­
tan not only means that you aro in 
ono of tho best activities, but also 
¦havo an excellent opportunity to 
earn money, obtain a business ex­
perience and meet peoplo that will 
mean a great deal to you.
Apply now and earn some money 
during Easter vacation. I want Soph­
omores and Freshmen to apply, 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 
1:00 p. m., Tartan office, Industry 
building. Act now and live a life of 
no regrets.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MARCH 24, T925
ÄCamep tartan
Published evory week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instituts of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-dansmatter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
T. D. ROSSINI. A. E. KJtOGHE. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. II. Harris A. F. Carson II. It. Sit/,lorD. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS.............................................................................Sclienley 9102
NEWS EDITORS 
W. WINNING ....................................................................................Franklin r»r.47-.l
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS.........................................................................................
REPORTERS
R. I-T Loppor, M. IlollJnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tulliqadgo, M. Tucker, It. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Ross, li. L. Myers, L, V. Twoliig, F. Finn, 
F. A. Kolb, A. V, Norn, A. Wlngold, L. Kelly, M, Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kim- 
inel, It. M. Pew, F. O. Woods.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
,! CHRISTOFF ....................................................................................Sclienley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFull, .1. F. Harris, J. A. C. Poller, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Da­
vidson, B. Kristoiy J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON..................................................................................
N. C. WESEIt, Assistant.................................................................
...Sclienley 9211 
...Sclienley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE II. CARL.............................................................................Sclienley 0393-M
, CIRCULATION MANAGER
». MOSKOVITZ .............................................................................____Hazel 287Z-M
BUSINE8S ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Porreton, 13. Supowitz, L. Sachs, 
Hough. F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbblo, Gladys Reynolds, W. A
L. Buuerle, J. P. 
I. Kuudell, A. C. 
Bernardi.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
this paper; tho
The Tartan welcomes ail communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All nows items must be In the slddent 
post ofllce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Office—Room 12, Industries Building. OIIlco hours—Dally 12:30- 
1:20.
PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT COUNCIL
Within a few more weeks the election ol! the president ol! the 
Student Council will be held. Although the date has not been definite­
ly set, the proliniiimry nominations will probably be made at the 
divisional assemblies on April I before the All Fools’ Day exercises 
begin;
This election is easily the most important of mp whole year. 
The mail selected should eombine a pleasing personality . with the 
ability to get results, and in addition be able to present student opin­
ion to the faculty in a manner which will create the fullest under­
standing and sympathy between the students and administration.
lb' must be a man who will represent the school with credit in all 
e.ontacts with other universities and other outside organizations. He 
must luiye a definite set ol! ideas upon which he intends to adminis­
trate his office, and must have the force of character to carry them 
out in the I'acc of opposition.
With these tilings in mind, the students should consider the man 
earel'nlly bofore nominating him for I his important office. It should 
be done in ¡ill seriousness, considering the fact that the vice president 
will nlso be chosen at: this time, and he should be able at any time to 
Mil in the shoes ol' the. president in case ol! the letter’s disability.
One more thing to consider is I lie man’s scholastic standing. He 
should have all his spare time to put, in on his office and if he is both­
ered with his studios, it will handicap him considerably 'in adminis­
trating his office.
(Students should begin now lo consider a man from their own 
school for this office, so that when I lie time comes to vote, they will 
do so intelligently with a full knowledge ol' what it is all about.
THE SENIOR BALL
The Carnegie Tartan wishes to extend its congratulations to I lie 
(Senior Hall committee» The Ball ol! last Friday night was one of 
the best parties ever held around the school.
We eannot, however, congratulate the (Senior class upon its co­
operation. In llie first place, the fourth year men did not support the 
function as they should have. There was probably not more Ilian 
fifty per cent ol! the registered students present. Discounting the 
usual percentage which never goes to daue.es, nevertheless, the sup­
port was poor considering the fact that it is the only dance restricted 
exclusively to the Seniors, and in addition their most representative 
film*.I ion,
Part of this lack of support may be traced lo the fact that the 
dance was held in the Union. We students at Carnegie Tech pride 
ourselves upon being broad minded, and open to conviction on any 
reasonable suggestion. Then, when a progressive committee sug­
gests an. innovation in the place of holding the Senior dance, the 
students immediately rise up and deride the idea without giving any 
lliought to the motives for the selection, or the advantages to be 
derived therefrom.
h’or one thing, we have been taking too many of our school 
functions oil' the Campus. A college is supposed to be self suflicing, 
and as such, should be able to hold all its social events within the 
coniines ol: the school. We are certainly at a disadvantage in being 
situated in a city the size of Pittsburgh where the facilities for hold­
ing affairs ol! this sort are so various and advantageous, but this is 
no reason for the growing trend to hold all our alfairs outside. Car­
negie functions should be held at Carnegie. We have not yet reached 
the stage wliere we can hold our biggest parties, like the Junior 
Prom, on the campus, but we firmly believe that this will come in 
time. In the older universities, the Prom is always held in the Gym­
nasium, and it would be considered sacrilege to hold it: elsewhere. 
Some day we.hope that our Junior Prom will be held in the Gym.
The Senior Ball is an exclusive affair. Only Seniors are admit­
ted, and the general atmosphere should be more quiet and formal 
than the dances of the underclasses, for after all, it is the last big 
class function of a group of students who will, in a few more months, 
be scattered over the whole country, some never to see the others 
again. What is more fitting than to hold this party in the Union 
where so many dances have been held at which, these students were 
present ?
This Senior Ball proved that the Union can be so attractively 
decorated that, even a formal party may be held there with-no feel­
ing of incongruity. The shaded lamps in the Faculty Club room as 
well as the. draperies and palms in the Union itself provided a. back­
ground which was perfectly suited to the air of the occasion. There 
was scarcely any student, at the dance who did not know practically 
(>very other man present, and this is a rare occurrence in Carnegie 
dances where so many outsiders are continually present.
The Senior Ball was a success; no one who was there will deny 
that fact;, It remains to be seen whether or not the following classes 
will be progressive enough to realize the value of the innovation in 
th<> place selected for it, and to pro 1.11 thereby,
SCRIBBLER CLUB TO SEE
"HIGH GODS” MARCH 20TH
The Scribbler's Club ol’ Margaret 
Morrison will hold a theater party 
on Thursday, March (5, at S:ir> p. m.. 
in the Little Theater. A most enjoy­
able time is anticipated. Seats have 
been reserved in the central part of 
the theater and the new play "High 
Goddess” is to he presented. Carol 
Foight has charge of the tickets.
Faculty members of the club, Dr.
McLeod, and Dr. Scott, will chaperon 
the party, and a number of freshmen 
who are contemplating taking the 
English minor or Library courses will 
be the guests of the club.
The club is composed of members 
of the English minor and library de­
partments. Although it has been or- \ question.
ganlzed but a short time, tho club 
is nourishing and has hold several 
Interesting meetings.
CAPT. LYONS RECUPERATING 
FROM PHYSICAL BREAKDOWN
Musical Clubs Please 
1,100 at Butler Concert
A1 Nern and Ed Newman 
Are Soloists
SI a criterion of a wonderful Home 
Concert, the Men’s Musical Clubs 
surpassed all their former efforts, In 
a very well received concert at But­
ler, lust Thursday night. A crowd, 
well over the thousand mark occu­
pied every seat available, filling the 
auditorium to capacity, rewarded the 
efforts of the Clubs by round after 
round of applause,
Evory number seemed to please 
the audience, and frequent calls for 
encores had to be answered. The 
music that Is to be used at the Moine 
Concert next Friday was especially 
well liked. The Glee Club’s "Lo, 
How a Rose E’er Blooming", and the 
Instrumental Club’s "Hungarian 
Dance,” were sung and played to per­
fection.
In a specialty stunt during the in­
termission,. Wayne Koppes caused 
gales of laughter with his clever 
monologue. Another act by A1 Min- 
etti, telling the story of George Wash­
ington and the Cherry tree, was a 
veritable riot. Minetti’s dancing 
gave further glory to our head cheer 
leader.
Eddie Newman pleased ¦with his 
sweet southern voice in "Hose of My 
Heart/’ Ai Nern. who will sing a 
duet with Eve Spencer at the Com­
bined Home Concert, scored In "Rose 
Marie”, a song hit from the musical 
comedy sensation by the same name. 
A Balalaika and Ukelele number by 
Aleshin and McVay was a novelty 
that pleased the audience very 
much. The Kiltie Quartet sang some 
new numbers in the top of form, and 
merited two encores.
After the concert the clubs were 
banqueted at the Methodist Episco­
pal Church, and managed to stow 
away quantities of excellent food. The 
minister of the church commended 
the clubs for their gentlemanly con­
duct, and their superb concert, 
which reflected great credit on the 
school,.
A word of praise is due to the di­
rectors, managers, and to Mr. Slear 
and the organiation which he head­
ed. for the splendid carrying out of 
tho whole affair.
Large Group Attended Girls’ Club Room to be 
First lerra Cotta Inst. Established in Gym
Car-Dem Club Organized 
By Carnegie De Molays
At a recent meeting of the Student 
Council, the constitution of the new­
ly organized Car-Dem Club was favor­
ably passed upon, making complete 
the student recognition of. this so­
ciety. The Car-Dem Club is composed 
of Cavnogle men who hold or have 
held a membership in the De Molay 
order.
The successful organization of the 
club is in a great part duo to the joint 
sponsoring of the Dads’ Association of 
Wostorn Pennsylvania and of the fol-
j The first Terra Cotta Institute 
closed Thursday night, March 1!), 
with a lecture on the uses and the 
success of terra cotta in the building 
industry. Many architects, builders, 
artists, and students in the Pitts-, 
burgh district viewed the exhibition 
scenes, and listened to the several 
lectures given on terra cotta.
The largest and most enthusiastic 
audience was present in the Little 
Theater the evening of March 18. 
Many Interesting discussions arose 
that night as to the appearances and 
uses of terra cotta In panel form and 
the terra cotta specimens which were 
displayed. Announcement was made 
that part of tho exhibit will be put 
on display in the Metropolitan Art 
Museum of New York.
Considering that It was the lirst 
attempt at such a project and that 
tho crowds viewing the exhibitions 
were of appreciable size, the institute 
is considered a success. Much credit 
OA to be given to the school commit- 
j toe who worked on this exhibition, 
j It is hoped by many that this display 
I will be made an annual event.
| ANNUAL SMOKER OF IN­
DUSTRIES MEN SATURDAY
(Continued from page one) 
open contest. The winner will be 
given a full page in the "Thistle.”
From the Printers’ camp come ex­
pressions of great optimism concern­
ing the Alpha Tan cup. It is under­
stood that a glass trophy case has al­
ready been ordered. A few intimate 
pictures from the life of toil of a 
Carnegie printing craftsman are as­
sured.
"The Follies of 1925,” the name of 
tho Building Constructors’ stunt, is 
the only clew to its nature.
By special arrangement with the 
Physical Training Department, the 
silver loving cup to be awarded to 
the winner of the Interfraternity-Tn- 
ter-donnitory swimming meet, which 
is to be held Saturday afternoon and 
evening, will be presented at the 
Smoker.
As a finril event, the judges will 
announce the winner in the stunt 
contest, and award the cup. Smokes 
and eats will be provided in great 
abundance, in a free-lunch fashion, 
as a remindor of the old days of 
good fellowship.
The committee in charge of ar­
rangements is Fred Phelps, chair­
man; .Toseh Hansen, William Gooby, 
Harold Weideli, Reginald Rowley, 
Karl Kornman, G. N. Van Vecliten, 
Cecil Hall, S'am Well, ,T. E. Smith, 
and Frank Powers.
Tags are now on sale by all the 
above at only 25,-cents each. High 
hopes are held for practically a one 
hundred per cent, turnout.
Campaign For Funds Now on; 
to be Used by All Girls’Clubs
t The campaign for tlie Girls' Club 
Room Is, supposedly, in full swing, 
j but as a matter of fact, things are 
I not going as well as they might, for 
j t he girls somehow seem strangely re- 
I luctant to support this campaign.
! At present there is practically no 
I plan on the Campus where the girls 
of Carnegie can hold meetings of any 
sort. As a result it Is extremely dif- 
! iicult to get all the members of a 
club together for a meeting. This 
situation has gradually given rise to 
the feeling that there should be 
! some room set aside for such a pur­
pose.
| On the main floor of the new gym 
! is a large room which was planned 
I especially for the girls, but which 
1 has never been furnished. A num- 
| her of enterprising girls from Arts 
j and Margaret Morrison decided some 
time ago that the only way in which 
to have the full benefit of this room 
was to stage an extensive campaign 
and raise the money with which to 
furnish the room. In order to carry 
out these plans, each girl has been 
asked to pledge $2.00 to be paid, in 
several installments. Any girls who 
feel that. they cannot pledge that 
amount are asked to give whatever 
they can, however small-a sum it may 
be.
The proposed ¦ club room is large 
and light, with, a big open fire-place 
at one end. There is also a small 
kitchenette adjoining this room, 
which will be of great advantage is 
serving refreshments, etc. The plan 
is to furnish the room simply but 
attractively, so that it may be avail­
able for club meetings at any time. 
It is not to be used as a lounging 
room, for it is felt that the need for 
a club room is far greater than that 
for a lounging room. However, it 
may be used by any girls’ organiza­
tion on the Campus, provided a reser­
vation is made far enough in advance 
so that there will be no conflicts.
The campaign thus far has not 
been very successful. Surely this is 
not because the girls are not inter­
ested in having a club room of their 
own. It would seem that they do not 
realize the expense of equiping such 
a room and so do not respond as 
readily as they would otherwise. The 
girls of Carnegie have always been 
noted for carrying through anything 
which they undertake. Are we going 
to fall down in this? Let’s all boost 
this campaign, and so make the Girls’ 
Club Room a thing of reality.
lowing men of the administration of 
Carnegie: Director Morris, Pro­
fessors Dibble and Hower, Mr. Lar­
kin, Mr: Slmlfer, Mr. Clark and Mr. 
Davis.
WHAT OF IT?
If your editorial of March 1 o, could 
ho answered by the question, "What 
of it?” the way of tho college man, 
after ho leaves tho campus, would be 
much easier.
One of tho biggest perplexities to 
many of us, Is the fact that the. im­
portant positions In post-college life 
are hold by men, whom wo thought 
mediocre In their studios, good natur- 
odly lazy in tho laboratories, and very 
busy In outside activities. Somehow 
or other they a'ways managed to g< I 
decent llpal grades, and in a great, 
many cases, attained to membership 
in the honorary fraternities. We 
thought of them as "getting by”. ."I 
don't set' how he gels away with It," 
Is one of the terms which will iden­
tify this man to you.
Tho salesman, in his contact with 
tho consumer, must have considera­
tion for ¿he factors in design and 
production, because to the consum­
er, he represents the entire industry 
In addition to this, he must fashion 
and shape ideas in the mind of the 
consumer, which will lead him to pur­
chase that which the designer 
dreamed, and which the production 
man caused to bo made. Without an 
adequate outlet for its product, any 
industry must forego existence. In 
the fashioning of ideas, the sales­
man’s materials are, the mind of his' 
prospect, and his consideration of the 
mind of his prospect.
You cannot sell a man by antagon­
izing him. When he parts with good 
hard cash, he wants to see a pleasant 
outcome for his expenditure. He 
must be optimistic, even when he 
calls a doctor. He looks for his 
loved one to get well, or hopes for 
his own recovery. The salesman 
then, must be a man who has HABIT­
UAL CONSIDERATION for all fac­
tors of design, production and hu­
man nature.
To the Carnegie men who are •In­
stinctively considerate, this lotter
fias no special meaning. To the men 
who have learned to be habitually 
considerato, this letter will bring a 
quiet friendly smile. To the men 
who are habitually inconsiderate, 
through ignorance or deliberation, 
tills letter should cause a visit to bo 
made to u considerate faculty advis­
or, to And out what It is all about.
Consideration pays, 1’or its own 
sake. You will observe tlmt the man 
who "gets away with situations’', is 
very considerati» of .all the factors, 
especially tho human factors. To 
him comes life’s richest; rewards. 
Rrlends, enough of the world’s goods 
for his wants, ease of accomplish­
ment, all come to him. Through con­
sideration and service, ho becomes 
what. Is known as a success.
Try it. and see for ourself.
RAYMOND II. LIN STEIN.
VARIED PROGRAM TO
BE GIVEN AT MUSICAL
CLUBS HOME CONCERT
(Continued From Fago One.) 
ent together with the main body of 
the program will take just two hours 
to produce. All the numbers will be 
short and snappy and provide endless 
variety for the audience.
Reserved tickets for the concert 
are now on sale at' tlie Y. M. C. A. 
office at noon and in tlie evening. 
Tickets can also lie obtained at Mel- 
lor’s at 604 Wood street, downtown. 
Preliminary tickets will be accepted 
at either place in exchange for re­
served seats.
As a result of effective and tire­
less work assisting Manager Lund- 
quist; on , the concerts, and particu­
larly for valuable assistance on the i home concert plans, George T. Le- 
Baron, a junior in the Electrical En- 
| glncerlng, has merited his election as 
j first assistant manager of the Musi­
cal Clubs. Congratulations are duo 
him for his splendid efforts on be­
half of the Clubs.
b.
d.
All Fool’s Day Regulations
All costumes must be worn between 11:30 and 1:30 p. m. March 
31.
a. Plebes are absolutely forbidden to enter classes while attired 
in costumes.
Freshmen of all four schools shall be judged in their respective 
assemblies which shall start at 11:30 sharp, 
a. A committee composed of three upper classmen appointed by 
the President of each assembly will select the freshmen who 
receive the greatest amount of applause as they present them­
selves before the assemblies.
Two or more eliminations may be held if necessary but such 
will be left to the discretion of the committee.
A Censorship Committee selected by the Chairman of the 
Four-School. Committee shall have power ’ to bar from the 
judgment and parade any costumes which are adjudged to be 
objectfonal.
Freshmen of the combined classes of Industries-Science shall 
report to the two assemblies as shown below:
Sections A, B, C, D, E and F and Non-degree—Room 104, 
Industries.
Sections G, H, I. J, K, L, M and Irregulars—Room 218 Science. 
Freshmen who shall be adjudged to have the best costume shall 
be released from all regulations for the remainder of tlie year. 
Exemption card shall be issued to them at the time of judgment, 
a. Not more than six nor less than four Freshmen shall be 
exempted in the College of Engineering.
Not more than eight nor less than six shall be exempted in 
the College of industries.
c. Not more than seven nor less than five shall be exempted in 
Margaret Morrison.
d. Not more than six nor less than four, and not more than five 
women nor less .than three shall be exempted in the college 
of Fine Arts.
A parade of all Freshmen in costume will be formed promptly 
at 12:30 by the committees from each school and the parade will 
be staged on the Campus for not more than twenty minutes.
a. Engineering and Industries line shall form on the walk be­
tween the two buildings with the head lacing Arts.
b. Fine Arts Freshmen will form in front of Arts on the Fresh­
men walk facing the Industries and Engineering.
c. Margaret Morrison Freshmen shall form in front of M. M. 
The parade shall be headed by the winners of the judgments 
in the various schools and shall end at the steps to Machinery 
Hall where pictures of the winners shall be taken.
In the event of rain or bad weather the parade shall be held 
in. the new gymnasium with the Freshmen marching over the 
stage. _____
I).
d.
PROOF THAT LIFE IS 
ONE BIG EXAMINATION
SOME SUMMER SCHOOL 
FEES TO BE INCREASED
To the Editor of "The Tartan”:
In tho article headed "Freshman 
Scholastic Leaders are Chosen,” 
which appeared in “The Tartan” for 
February 24th, occurred two incorrect 
statements.
It was first stated, that scholar­
ships wore awarded the eleven fresh­
men whose names were published, 
and that no consideration was given 
to their activities, and, second, that 
the selections were made by me.
No scholarships were awarded to 
these students, but their names were 
announced in recognition of their 
having completed the first semester 
with the best scholastic records. As 
this distinction was based solely on 
their scholarship performance there 
was no occasion to take activities 
into account. Nor was a selective 
process necessary, the number of 
quality points earned automatically 
determining the result.
May I ask you to publish this com­
munication in your next issue in or­
der to correct any misinterpretations 
that may have arisen from, the oirgl- 
nal article.
A. -W. TARBELL, Secretary,
Scholarship Commttee.
Captain Lyons of the R. O. T. C. 
Department, is at present récupéra-' 
ting from a general physical break­
down. Not long ago he underwent 
a severe physical examination here 
at school, and it was advised that 
he go to the Walter Reid Hospital 
at Washington in order that he might 
recuperate. The captain has been at 
Carnegie for more than two years, 
and if his condition permits, he will 
return. However, this remains a
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, M A KOI 1 24
“The II¡{ill Clods"..........................................8:80 P, M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25
"The Hi«ih Gods’*..........................................8:3ft P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, MARCH 20
Chapel......................................................»....12:50 I*. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 27
Musical Clubs’' Home Concert...........................8:30 P. M., Music llall
Dance...........................................................10:00 P. M.. Schenlev Hotel
SATURDAY. MARCH 28
Industries’ Smoker......................................................7:30 P. M., Union
SUNDAY, MARCH 20
Music Recital...........................................•.......8:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, MARCH 31
All Fools’ Dav.
THURSDAY, APRIL 2
Chapel.........................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
MONDAY., APRIL 6 
Spring Vacation Begins.
TUESDAY, APRIL U
Classes Resume.
The Final Announcement of the 
Summer Session of 1925 is off the 
press. Copy may be obtained at the 
Registrar’s Office and at the office 
of the Director of the Summer Ses­
sion, Industries 230 A and B.
Attention^ is called to the fact that 
some of the fees for the Summer Ses­
sion of 1925 have been slightly' re­
vised from those indicated on the 
mimeographed sheets distributed to 
departments about January 20, and 
printed in The Carnegie Tartan of 
March 3. The fees appear in the re­
vised form in the Final Announce­
ment of the Summer Session and are 
as follows:
Tuition Fee for nine units or less. 
$25.00 (no change); for more than 
nine, but not more than 18 units. 
$40.00 (instead of $35.00); for more 
than 18 xmits, $50.00 (instead of 
$45.00). •
Fee for Individual Lessons on piano, 
organ, violin or cello, $30.00 (instead 
of $35.00); on other instruments, 
$25.00 (no change).
SCHENLEY THEATER
Helen Hewitt, lyric soprano, and 
Bernard Ferguson, dramatic bari­
tone, have been engaged to appear at 
the Sclienley during the entire week 
as the added musical attraction, sup­
plementing the photoplay program.
"Three Women,” the feature to be 
shown on Monday, Tudsday and 
Wednesday, shows how a good pic­
ture can bo when made under the 
supervision of the faultless director, 
Ernst Lubitsch. May McAvoy, Marie 
Provost, and Pauline Frederick share 
tlie tri-stellar honors. Lew Cody, 
Mary Carr, Willard Louis and Pierre 
Gondron are some of tho other bril­
liant players.
Douglas Fairbanks in "Robin 
Hood” is the feature photoplay at­
traction to be shown on Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday. Many critics 
pronounced "Robin Hood” as the 
greatest picture ever made.
Harsh Old English Law
Less than a century ago a child of 
nine was condemned to death In Eng 
land for stealing paint to the value of 
twopenee-hii I tp**n n v
Examinations begin almost imme­
diately after we come into the world. 
One certain day is set aside for the 
assembling of the clan, to pass re­
marks upon “Junior” or "darling pre­
cious,” or "the cussed little yowler,” 
—whatever you are designated. Aunt 
Sophia says you have your father’s 
nose, and can’t understand why the 
rest can’t see the resemblance. But 
uncle Bill says you look like your 
mother, with hopes that you grow up 
as pretty. Then your brother is 
brought in (you do not Know for 
some years what he says, but his re­
marks usually are "Hull! That red­
faced thing my brother? Why, lie’s 
all wrinkly, like a dried peach.”) 
Meanwhile you kick your "ittle foot­
sies” in the air and express your opin­
ion of the world in a rich young voice 
that your parents will] learn soon to 
listen for with fear and trembling.
Finally you go to' the grade schools 
and the gang examines you; and the 
teacher examines you to see what 
you don’t know; and your father ex­
amines you concerning the clothes­
pin on the cat’s tail, while mother 
examines you concerning the myster­
ious vanishing of that pint of goose­
berry preserves she had laid away 
for the Presiding Elder.
Then you get to high, and get ex­
amined again; by the girls, to see 
tho extent of your line, and whether 
you know how to say "Goodnight” 
properly; by the coacli to see what 
you can play, and by the teachers 
again.
Then conies college, eventually. 
Here the high experience is repeat­
ed, save for the learning of the pro­
per use of new things, such as hot- 
coffee, cold towels, alarm clocks, 
goloshes, and porch swings.
Finally the day comes (evontually) 
when you march proudly up and take 
the package done in pink, and are 
chased out into the world, with the 
prediction that it is waiting for your 
services. Here again life is still an 
exam. Jobs ’n everything.
But finally some fair damsel comes 
j along who discovers that you pass her 
| examinations, and you enter upon the 
| blissful state known as "Married.” 
| Here you think you are safe and you 
are—for a while. Then, one night, 
your thoughts go back to the gang 
you used to ramble with in your 
young and innocent childhood. Where 
are they now? Some are shooting 
the poor little pools, some are ’ play­
ing rude games of chance', and some­
how the urge urges you till you yield 
and join them. Arriving home some- j time in the morning, you find the 
j "better half” prepared for a snap 
| quiz. She asks you where you have j been and you tell you have been sit­
ting up with a sick friend. Then the 
dialogue, or in this case the mono­
logue begins, and in the end you real­
ize that here is one exam you flunked 
gloriously.
And so it goes. Everywhere you 
turn someone pops an exam at you.
Finally at last you grow tired of 
it all and turn up your toes and peace­
fully pass in your checks. Then doc­
tors take your poor shell of a body, 
and pry it open and examine it, to 
see what you died of.
And even after death the grim ter­
ror follows us. As your soul floats 
across the limitless void it comes 
finally to rest before the last great, 
gate. Here if you pass, you enter in 
and live happily. If you flunk you are 
taken to the edge and dropped off to 
that word of four letters signifying 
heat.
Considering it from all angles, our 
argument seems to hold water. And 
then too, we find the small part of 
tragedy behind it all, in , knowing, 
when we are about to embark across 
the unknown sea, that a retrospec­
tion of the years will show that few 
of us know much more about the real 
things of life than when we started.
Many people are wise on radio mat­
ters, yet do not know why their foun­
tain pen "leaks,” or that they can 
purchase one that will give entire 
satisfaction at the Jenkins Arcade— 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue
Sunday, 11 A. M. and S P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A.M.
Young People’s Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
^Jhe largest selling 
quality pencil , in the -world
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousENUSPENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, per do:. $1.00 
Rubber ends, per do:. 1.20 
cAt all dealers 
American Lead Pencil Co. 
220 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
s^SCHENLEY^s
25c THEATER 25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GEN'L MGR.
MONDAY—TUESDAY—WEDNESDAY
Ernst Lubitsch’s Production
THREE WOMEN
Featuring May McAvoy, Pauline Frederick, Marie 
Prevost with Lew Cody, Willard Louis and Mary
LDYXFK GX7: :3D0,VOL.o, 2OVY
THURSDAY—FRIDAY—SATURDAY 
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS in
ROBIN HOOD
Faivbank’s most artistic classic. 
COMEDYNEWS
All Week All Week
HELEN HEWITT, Lyric Soprano 
BERNARD FERG-USON, Dramatic Baritone
Song artists with voices of magnetic buoyancy and 
charm.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 24. 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTAÑPAGE THREE
i: i
i
&jtoAl oF’tsFADa
GIRLS’ B. B. TEAMS 
LOSE TO PITTITES
'FINALS' GAME SATURDAY
PHI K. 17—PI K. A. 15
W.A.A. Entertained Visitors 
With Tea in Rec. Hall 
After the Games
REMAINING FINAL GAMES 
March 24:
Pi Kappa Alpha-Scobell 
March 25:
Phi Kappa-PhiKappa Alpha 
March 26:
Scobell-Phi Kappa 
March 27:
Pi Kappa Alpha-Scobell
The past week lias been one of 
thrills and excitement for tlie girls’ 
'basketball teams. Although the 
start was rather slow, things are 
now going at a merry pace, and each 
¦class is doing its best to bring home 
the cup for championship.
Besides class contests, games were 
played with the Pitt girls on Satur­
day afternoon. The results of these 
games were such as might have been 
expected. The Pitt teams won by 
large' scores. There are many rea­
sons for this. In the first place, the 
Pitt girls have a strong varsity, the 
embers of which played on their re­
spective class teams. Carnegie girls 
have no varsity. The Pittites show­
ed what can be accomplished by 
strict training and steady practice. 
The Carnegie girls had almost no 
practice, which of course is their 
own fault.
The basketball season is drawing 
to a close, but there are volley ball, 
hasQ- ball, and tennis remaining on 
the list , of girls’ sports. It is hoped 
that they will get up a little pep and 
come out strong for these teams.
As long as we persist in having 
athletic activities we should have a 
fair, representation. The freshmen 
are to be congratulated for the fine 
spirit shown so far, considering the 
example they received from the up­
perclassmen. The upperclassmen are 
undoubtedly more representative of 
Carnegie than the plebes, yet in mat­
ters like athletics, they allow the bur­
den to fall upon the plebes, who are 
so willing and eager to do their 
share.
The old worn-out excuse of too 
much school work is only an excuse 
and not a reason. Surely upperclass­
men have as much time to devote to 
activities as freshmen have. This is 
another appeal to the girls which we 
hope may he more effective than the 
man3r preceding ones.
Last Saturday after the games the 
Carnegie girls entertained the Pitt 
girls with tea in the M. M. Rec. Hall. 
Miss Brown poured, and was assisted 
by the committee in charge of Jerry 
Corbett.
Following is the standing of the 
class teams to date:
Won Lost
Mythical Teams Chosen 
In Inter-frat Leagues
Seniors ..................................1
•Juniors ......................................0
Sophs ........................................1
Plebes .........................................0
Design .........................................2
Arlington Is Largest
The Arlington national cemetery is 
the largest national cemetery in the 
United States. It has an area of 
¿08 1-3 acres.
/A Sweet Breath \ at all times J
AJway« carry Wrigley's 
to freshen the mouth 
and sweeten the breath. 
Soothes nerves, refreshes 
throat and aids digestion.
mm|[ - after eVery meal jjjf
James'%9
O
NE of many distinctly 
modls!
Values for $9 or $7 not possi­bly obtainable elsewhere. Collej men ar always “from Missouri” 
— John Ward Men’s Shoes wil sho you!
On Display By
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick at 
Skibo Inn April 1st.
(¿fehnVykid 
iwveivs-ShoesINCORVORATKU «-i.s. 5P.j on*.
Storw in New York. Brooklyn, Newark oiid Philadelphia Address for Mail Orden. 191 Hudson rft, New York City
All interfraternity-dormitory Jeague 
games have now been disposed of 
and the finals are being played off 
this week. Pi Kappa Alpha, Phi 
Kappa, and S'cobell Hall each meet 
I twice, one game being played every 
I night of the week in the gym and 
commencing at S:00 p. m. Only a 
few contests were staged in the re­
gular leagues during the past week, 
and these merely to finish out the 
schedule.
With the season just ahout over, 
divers opinions have been hazarded 
as to the most scintillating perform­
ers in the various circuits. Hence, 
it is not out of place for this column 
to publish what it deems a fairly re­
presentative all-star team for each 
league. This 'is a collaberation, the 
result of many opinions and should 
not be blamed on one individual; if 
it chances not to suit the multitude. 
These teams are listed in another 
column.
Several of these positions are in 
dispute and some are a mere matter 
of choice, hut the players named 
have all been consistently good 
throughout the year and in general 
represent the best material in the 
fraternity leagues.
In the National, it Is a question 
whether McWilliams, Ryan, Bassett, 
and Snethen could not replace some 
of the others, and still present as 
strong a team. Bastian might be 
placed in the American line-up and 
West at one of the guards without 
weakening the aggregation. In the. 
third league, , Rossomme and Mc- 
Creary are nearly 011 a par with the 
others. Duncan is placed at center 
to make room for Crum.
From the statistics it will be seen 
that the National League race was 
the most hectic. The winner leads hy 
only one game and no less than 
three teams are tied for next place. 
Pi Kappa Alpha and Delta Upsilon 
alternated in the lead for a while un­
til the latter lost to a second division 
team and dropped out.
Phi Kapa and Beta Theta Pi kept 
together till the very last, each beat­
ing all the remaining teams in the 
American loop. This league is the 
only one without a tie for some posi­
tion in it.
The Federal Circuit promised to 
end in a tie, as both Scobell and 
Delta Tau Delta found hut little op­
position at first. The hitter succumb­
ed to the third place team, and is 
now in a triple tie for second hon­
ors. Scobell has yet to plajr a single 
close contest, with the exception of 
the one with the Delts;
Phi Kappa and Scobell then, will 
provide a good chance for compari­
son of relative league strength, as 
both were supremo in their own 
'back yard. The Pi Kaps had a much I 
harder time winning out but appear 
to have been in' a stronger league;, 
and so are still being backed by 
many to retain- the title.
INTER-FRAT TANK 
MEET SAT. MAR. 28 IOn the Plaid Screen
PLEBES REPORT FOR 
BASEBALL PRACTICE
Beautiful Cup For Winners 
Coach Beukema is in 
Charge ot Meet
Tlie first Inter-mural swimming 
meet at Carnegie Tech will be held 
in the new gym 011 Saturday eve­
ning, March 2S. Chris Beukema who 
is swimming instructor and coach of 
the swimming team, has charge of the 
meet, and his two colleagues. F. W. 
Moses and Arnold Fink will- assist 
j him. The primary purpose of the 
meet is to instill interest in swim- 
[ ming. and to offer an opportunity for 
Coach Beukema to look over any 
swimmers who are in school and 
have swimming possibilities.
The entries are coming to the of­
fice slowly, but a good representa­
tion is expected. • The fraternities 
are urged to enter any of their men 
who can swim, dive or plunge. All 
men are eligible for this meet wheth­
er freshmen, upperclassmen, mem­
bers of the swimming team or not.
A beautiful silver loving cup, 
mounted on a highly polished ebony 
I base, will be presented to the win­
ner of the meet. It is on display, in 
the physical instructors office on the 
second floor of the new gym. One 
look at this beautiful cup will satisfy 
everyone that it is well worth striv­
ing- tor, and would make a valuable 
acquisition to any fraternity house.
The meet will consist of the dash­
es, the distance swims, the breast 
stroke, back stroke, plunge, dive and 
the relay, which will count toward 
the cup as there is 110 individual re­
lay to be given.
J. F. CHRISTOFF
. Track 
Allegheny Dual, here 
Geneva, here 
Ohio Wesleyan, here 
Pitt Intercollegiates.Sch.Oval
S'ong writer: “I have here, my dear 
sir, a song that is bound to succeed. 
It tells about the sweet romance un­
der the Northern lights.”
Producer: “What’s its name?”
Song writer: “Love Lights of the 
North.”
Producer: “Change that to ‘Mush­
ing. on the Yukon’, and I can use it.” 
—McMaster Univ. Monthly
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
Sophs and Plebes Given 
Managerial Opportunity
An extraordinary managerial op­
portunity is open to a limited num­
ber of freshmen and sophomores who 
wish to assist in the running of Car­
negie Tech’s Ninth Annual Inter­
scholastic Track and Field Meet, to 
be held on May !).•
There is an enormous amount of 
detail work connected with the pre­
liminary phases of the meet. But 
the manager of the Interscliolastic 
meet is awarded a major letter, and 
is given quite an opportunity to dis­
play organization ability.
The meet this year Is Doing hand­
led by E. C. Frazier, manager, and 
J. B. Whitman first assistant. If 
there are underclassmen who desire 
to take advantage of this chance to 
work their way into a managership, 
they should report to one of these 
men for instructions'early this week.
RESULTS OF CLOSING GAMES 
IN INTER-FRAT DORM LEAGUE
Delta Chi Rho . 
Delta Phi Delta
Alha Tau Omega 
Boss ......................
Henderson .............................................20
Woodlawn ............................................ 8
Scobell ..................................................27
Welch ....................................................1U
Theta XI .............................................37
Beta Sigma Rho ............................... 9
Sigma Epsilon Phi 
Delta Mu ................
Sigma Nu 
Acacia
NEWMAN CLUB FORMAL
DANCE MAY 1ST., K. OF C.
The Fraternity of 
Businessl
Begin now to form the associations 
and habits that will serve you when 
you enter the business world. A 
bank account, aside from the tan­
gible value, furnishes experience 
and contacts which will operate to 
your advantage in later years.
The personal interest of Mellon of­
ficers in the financial welfare of 
depositors is one of the outstand­
ing characteristics of the institu­
tion. Our experience and busi­
ness judgment are at your service.
Capital and Surplus $12,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
Aufhammer & Evans
T---------------------------------------—-------
1 LUNA CATERY
Hats and Men’s Furnishingsj Pure Foods
6100 PENN AVENUE! HOME MADE CANDY
At Sheridan Squa re East Liberty 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ICE CREAM
The Newman Club of Pittsburgh 
will hold its annual Formal Dance on 
Friday, May 1. at the Knights of Col­
umbus Ballrom, Fifth and Bellefield 
avenues. May 1. the date selected, 
besides being 011 a Friday, is in the 
midst of a quiet spot of the activities 
scheduled at Carnegie, Pitt, and Du- 
quesne, and for that reason should 
not interfere with any athletic or so­
cial functions of those institutions.
The following have been appointed 
heads of the various 'committees:
General Chairman, Arthur Dia­
mond; Music, Thomas Triggs, Decor­
ations, Marion Murphy; Programs, 
Margaret Gallagher; Refreshments, 
Elizabeth McCarthy; Tickets, Mich­
ael Oriss; Publicity, Thomas Demp­
sey.
Several prominent out-or-town or­
chestras are being considered by the 
committee and a selection will no 
doubt be made in the near future. 
The other members of the commit­
tee will be chosen this weel^.
Gender of Sun and Moon
The “moon” is feminine in German 
because in Larin mythology "Luna" 
was the goddess of the moon. The 
sun was masculine because Phoebus 
was the god of the sun (Sol).
Physician*s Position
The true physician is In love with 
his science. He is sustained by that 
passion as much ns by the sense of his 
usefuln5TB to snHpiv.—Balzac.
CONFLICTING SCHEDULES
In looking over the truck schedule recently wo noticed that several of the 
meets will be held at. times when the baseball team is also meeting an op­
ponent. There are four such conflicts, two of the contests being 011 different
tields in the city at the sanie time, which of course will divide the interest
and attendance. The list follows:
Date Baseball
May 2.Penn State, there
May 9.Grove City, there
May 15......Bucknell. here
May 23......Bethany, here
From the above it will be seen that it will be a very difficult task for a 
man to go out for both baseball and track. He might get into excellent 
shape, but he cannot be at two places at once—that feat would almost be 
necessary according to the two schedules.
This is very unfortunate, indeed, for there are three or four boys who 
will doubtless be 011 the baseball team who are sure to win some points in 
track meets. It will'be a question of either the track team suffering or the 
baseball team. The ideal thing would have, been to arrange games on days 
other than when there were meets, though this condition could not very 
well have been brought about.
It is quite true that some of the men reporting for both track and base­
ball can take part in both without requiring much more of their time than 
either one of the sports does. The big difficulty conies when the meets are 
held and the games played.******
THE SWIMMING MEET 
It is hoped that everyone of the fraternities, dormitories and 
classes will enter teams in the swimming meet to be held In the tank 
of the new gym next Saturday. So far the entries have not been 
coming in very fast. For this reason those in charge of the meet 
have decided to receive entries all this week.
The cup given will be worth while striving for, and the fact that 
not one fraternity or dormitory possesses all of the swimming mate­
rial should make the winner in doubt until the last event is reeled 
off. The object of this meet is to arouse more interest in swimming. 
Come on, water dogs, let’s go!**>«¦***.
Isn’t it about time for plans to be laid for the interfraternity 
track meet?******
GIRLS’ BASKET BALL
Til another column is an article concerning the baslcet ball games played 
by the girls recently. The writer of that article was quite “het-up" because 
of the fact that the girls at Carnegie made such a poor showing against 
teams from Pitt. The thought seems to be that the Tartan girls could do 
much better if they would come out for practice more.
We have been rending much in the Pitt Weekly and the dally papers 
about the athletic activities of the Pitt girls during the past winter, and 
this struck us all the more forcibly because the girls at; Carnegie did not 
apparently take much interest in athletics.
Just what is wrong? Are the girls here more refined and girlish, is their 
time taken up by their studies, do they ha.vo too many social affairs on the 
calendar, or are they just naturally, in plain words, too lazy to go into ac­
tivities that require muscular exertion?
Did you ever give tho subject of athletics much thought, girls? ******
It has been decided to charge an admission of ten cents to the 
inter-frat-dorm finals this year. The reason for this is that an addi­
tional official will be secured for each game, thus incurring an ex­
pense that has to be met some way.******
The Science Juniors are still going strong. Last week they de­
feated the Architects by a score of 20 to 8, and the Sophomores of 
Industry 32-12. We had better send the Industries Juniors against 
them, and stop their winning streak.******
Football practice will start the first Tuesday after school re-opens after 
the Easter vacation.******
The big “food" given tho letter men of tho football squad In Bert Mun- 
hall.’s training,quarters last week mot with the hearty approval of everyono 
present. Only two were absent;, and only because If was Impossible for 
them to come. Bert is a better coolc than a trainer, and that Is saying some­
thing.
Mythical Inter-Frat Dorm Teams
Position Natl. League Amer. League Fod. League
Forward................Conley (Hend.) Sichi (Phi E.) Dlffloy (D. T. D.)
Forward...............Kohne (Pi K. A.) Smith (S. E. P.) Crum (Scobell)
Center...................Goodwin (D. U.) Hood (B. T. PI) Dunoan (Soobell)
Guard...................Schwab (Pi K.A.) McGuire (Phi K.) Koppe» (D. T. D.
Guard...................Plummer (D. U.) Escher (S. A. E.) Shrlver (D. T. D.)
Final Inter fraternity Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Pi Kappa Alpha . . 
Delta Upsilon . . . 
Alpha Tau Omega 
Theta XI .............
6I.857
52.714
52.714
52.714
43.572
25.285
16.143
07.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE
................. 701.000
................. 61.357
Sigma Epsilon Phi .........................2.714
3.572
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................................... 34.428
................. 25.285
Delta Mu ............................................................. 16.143
7.000
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Iota Sigma Delta 
Delta Chi Rho . . .
7 01.000
5 2.714
5 2.714
5 2.714
3 4.428
2 5.285
1 6.143
0 7.000
yRegu yRe in AnSkubIiTu
Plebe baseball practice started last 
Monday under the direction of Coach 
Robertson. Very little work co\ild be 
douo 011 account of tho adverse 
weather conditions outdoors, and the 
crowded condition of the gym in* 
doors.
As is usually tho case very little 
is known of tho ability of tho men 
reporting. The squad numbers about 
twenty-five men at. present. This 
number will undoubtedly be increas­
ed when good weather arrives. The 
roster includes many former college 
players who are spending their first 
year at; Carnegie. Some of these aro 
R. W. Hurd, formerly of Mt. UuiA.n; 
B. W. Gottle., from West Virginia 
Wesleyan; and Benny Comfort, of 
Trinity College. Conn.: C. II. John­
son. of Weedville; G. M. Cooper, of 
Wattsbury: J. A. Hagan and W. R. 
Wagman, of Sclienley high, are some 
of the men reporting who played re­
gularly 011 their high school teams.
Manager Cy I-Iocmninger has ar­
ranged a very good schedule includ­
ing games with Iviskl, Bellefonte, In­
diana. Shadysido, and Sclienley High. 
The first game will be the encounter 
with iS'hadyside at Shadyside 011 
April IS. This will be followed by 
two games at home; the first with 
Sclienley 011 April 21 and the sec­
ond on the 25th with Bellefonte. 
April 20 finds the Plebes at Indiana. 
The second half of tho schedule op­
ens with a return engagement at 
Bellefonte on May 9. Indiana ap­
pears hero 011 the 16th followed two 
days later by Kiskl. The last game 
011 the card is a second game ar. 
Shadyside tho next day.
The schodulo follOws: April 18.
Shadyside, there;’ April 21, Sclienley, 
hero; April 25, Bollofonto, here; 
April 29, Indiana, there; May 9, 
Bellefontcf. there; May 16, Indiana, 
herd’;' May IS, Kiskl, here; May 19, 
Shadyside, tliero.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
CARNEGIE ENTERED 
IN ARMORY EVENTS
Complete Track Squad Will 
Compete —Meet Arranged 
With Pitt During C.W.
European Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Duyn
$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
l'or full ¡¡nrtioulurii tttltlrnnit 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Tauni Division 
XtO East 41nd Straut Now York
During the past few weeks tho 
track team has been rapidly round­
ing into shape, and will take part in 
tho Hunt Armory meet next Satur­
day. Many internationally famous 
stars, among whom are Paavo Nurmi, 
Willie Ritola, Alan HelfTrich, of Penn 
State fame, and others will take parr 
in the various events. The Panthers 
I are also entering a representative 
squad in the races. Coach llalferty 
welcomos this meet as it. will give 
j him an opportunity to judge the re­
lative abilities of tho members of the 
I squad under the actual conditions of 
j a. race.
I The quarter mile distance lias re­
ceived most of the attention to date,
I in an effort to discover suitable 
material for tho Penn Relays, which 
event is next 011 the Tartan’s sehe- 
I dule. Only two men who went to 
Philadelphia last: year with the re­
lay team are in school at present; 
they are Bier and Dyke, both show­
ing up well in practice. Several 
others from last, season’s squad are 
exhibiting a bit of speed and will 
doubtless make 11 strong bid for a 
berth 011 the relay squad.
A meet with Pitt has been arranged 
Tor May 12, the Tuesday of Campus 
Week, in the Skibo Bowl. By that 
time both teams will be in theii* best 
condition and mi interesting battle 
should result.
Among those who Are entered in 
the indoor carnival at the Armory 
Saturday, and will probably form tho 
nouclous of tho team this season are: 
sprinters, Christoff, Bohn, Sbrivor; 
quartor milers, Bier, Dyke. Kelley, 
Rhodes, Seaman, and McKinney: 
liurdlara, Do Vries, F. W. Cook, and 
Stult/,; distance men, Bright, Peck, 
Ewing, Hobo, and Biolski.
Tho freshman squad at; present 
will bo represented by: King and'
Cayolli In tho dashes; Hopper, Flynn 
and Connolly, In the hurdles; Hnghofl, 
Illrsch, Flynn, and Flngels in tho 
quarter mllo; and Crawford, Prase, 
Jacobs, ami Davis In tho distance 
events.
"1-Iowdy” Dykoman. captain of the 
cross country for the paid, two sea­
sons, who has boon assisting Coach 
Hulforty at dally practice sessions Is 
entered In the distance runs and 
should glyo a good account' of him- 
solP.
Assistant managers are still want­
ed and should report to Manager 
Serlmgoor 011 the campus or after 
<1:80 lu tho truck house.
IFifth Annual Dance
G-ivon by-----
The IVIinyiin Club
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1925 
HOTEL SCHENLEY BALL BOOM
Featuring Vornon Serenaders of Cincinnati, Ohio 
Dmicmg 9-1
tttnttwtnittimitinwtmttiitmttnwmmmmnminnmmmntmimmimtiiiitmti:
Don’t Be An Antique
Somo pooplo look like nn old rollo In formnl olothcn that 
were tailored yoarn ago. Lot uo Rent you one of our Now 
Models. You'll ace tho dlfforcnco.
Largest otock botwoon Now York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smlthfleld 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30—5:30
Smiles fi^it 
back at
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Student Senate.
IVC- D. Kalfelz, President, 4807 Baum Boulevard..................
A. S. Andrews, Vice President, 920 St. James Street..........
D. V. Beede, Treasurer, 624 Clyde Street...............................
F. S. Taber, Secretary, 200 South Neville Street................
D. K. Mims, Senior Class Representative, G24 Clyde St... 
R. W. Bankier, Sr., Class Representative, *1034 Windsor. 
J. W. Goss, Jr., Class Representative, Henderson Hall...
....Sclienley 0285 
.. .Montrose 4709
........Hiland 9544
..Sclienley 2253-J
........Hiland 9541
..........Hazel 3868
...Schenley 9180
Athletic Council Representative.
II. E. Dykéman, 624 Clyde Street.......................................
Senior Class Officers.
A. E. Mellor,,President, 630 Clyde Street......................
G. II. Carl, Vice President, 203 Boquefc Street................
M. Donahue, secretary, 254 Bellefield Street..................
K. C. Kornman, Treasurer, 220 Main Street.....................
Junior Class Officers.
R. Rowloy, President, 417 S. Dithrldge Street..............
J. F. Christoff, Vice President, 4807 Baum Boulevard. 
G. W. Sanner, Secretary, 417 South Dithrldge Street.., 
It. L. Coulter, Treasurer, 417 South Dithrldge Street..
Sophomore Class Officers.
S. Forbes, President, 624 Clyde Street............................
C. J. Udd, Vice President, Henderson Hall....................
N. P. Mitchell, Treasurer, 254 Bellefield Avenue............
A. E. Dodge, Secretary, 2822 Baum Boulevard..............
.........Hiland 9380
.Schenley 0393-M
___Schenley 9102
........Fisk 217C'W
.Sclienley 0877-R 
...Schenley 9285 
..Schenley 0877-R 
.Schenley 0877-R
........Hiland 9544
...Schenley 9180 
....Schenley 9102 
...Schenley 9091
Freshmen Class Officers.
J. Hess, President, 4921 Forbes Street...............................................Schenley 0650
H. Grosskloss, Vice President, 4921 Forbes Street.........................Schenley 0659
C. F. McClelland, Treasurer, 4807 Baum Boulevard.......................Schenley 9285
J. L. Davidson, Secretary, 254 Bellefield Avenue.............................Schenley 9102
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing . j 
Craig and Forbes Streets J 
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
evenings. Advanced Thursday andi 
Saturday evenings- Private lessons | 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
mu-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------vvi
jtoAlF’s’Da ’D yReeAaA guiAls
—Is like radio broadcasting 
which ia delivered to an unseen 
audience, nnd the“broadcaater” 
lenowa nothing of the message 
registration unless responses are 
sent In.
In December the John Hancock 
rim In this paper on advertise- 
ment headed ‘‘Do College Stu­
dents Read Advertisement!!? ” 
Here fire some of the responses:
“Your advertisement In the 
Dartmouth wan an unusual 
one, and I want to expresa 
my approval."
“If there were more ado like
the one you ran in the 
Princetonian this morning It 
would be a pleasure to read 
a paper of nothing but ads.” 
"The students here In Han­
over not only read the ad­
vertisements but also patron­
ize the advertisers.”
“The advertisement in the 
Illlnl is written from the col­
lege students' point of view. 
I believe In Insurance be­
cause of the sound economic 
principle« which underlie it. 
There remain» then only the 
kind of nollcy and the com­
pany. what have you gotl"
jto AltF ’sFDlDa yReRsg fi usienDRgsigS kFeoioeeeb In IFeRigFT college men anil 
women sFng lhesnFnF! s“hnenlRP Dlggo!o !isbRseoP Eli eto uoiPlFFog lE keP Enogb PesEE”
Over Sixty Years in 
Business. Now Insuring 
Over Two Billion Dol­
lars on 3,500,000 Lives

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MARCH 24, 1925
oth!“A joPs&
DESIGN DISTINCTIVE 
DRESS FOR ALUMNI
Plan to Ask Returning Grads 
to Wear Costumes Cam­
pus Week
SI BM l'urtharamjo o£ tho idea. of dis­
tinctive senior atliro, which lias boon 
in operation for tho past two years, 
it in now boihg planned to devise 
some original costume Cor members 
of oacli graduating' class to wear 
about tho campus whon returning to 
tbo Alma Mator.
Tho plan may bo given its first trial 
during Campus Week whon many of 
tbo old guard will assemble to Uvo 
over tlioir Btuclont day«. Special ef­
forts are being mado to Interest tho 
classes of '08, '00, '10, and '11, which 
are expected to turn out en masse.
Such costumes could be worn to 
tbo Mardi Gras and again on Satur­
day, the big alumni day, when they 
would lend much color and zest to 
the banquet and other events of tbo 
day. Even a glorious parade could 
be held in tho aftornoon with the rep­
resentatives of each class in its dis­
tinctive attire.
Though this would prove an inno­
vation at Carnegie, at some schools 
it has been an annual event for 
years. At Princeton, for instance, 
parade of alumni drossed as pirates, 
sailors, cowjboys and tho like has a 
permanent place on the events of tho 
home-coming week. Many other col­
leges have similar customs and Car­
negie might do well to follow suit.
To bo suro, tho plans l’or the af­
fair aro only tontativo so far, but 
only the assurance of tbo support of. 
the alumni is required to make it a 
reality. In regard to this, G. L. Til- 
broolc requests that suggestions bo 
sent to him at the Alumni Office as 
soon as possible. Such idoas may be 
in tho nature of advice as to tho best
Industries Smoker 
Big Event of Week
Alumni Urged to Return For 
Second Annual Event
The Carnegie alumni aro cordially 
Invited and heartily urged l.o attend 
the Industries Smokor, to bo held in 
the Union this Saturday at 7:30 p. m. 
The evening will bo a succession of 
rare entertainment and guaranteed 
enjoyment, including soveral features 
not provided in past years, and all 
tho best features of former smokers.
One of' the novelties will bo the 
stunt contest, by departments, for 
possession of the handsome loving 
cup that has been donated by Alpha 
Tau, the Industries honorary scholas­
tic fraternity.
The second annual election of tho 
most representative Carnegie man in 
the Industries 'S'enior class is another 
rather novel, event. The students 
sliowod quite a bit of interest last 
yoar, and tbo alumni will have a 
chance to meet tho kind of chap who 
means "Carnegie Tech" to tbo world 
at large nowadays.
A movie comedy. Alpha Tau call, 
several pieces by an orchestra com­
posed entirely of Industries men, and 
a stunt by Alpha Tau, will complete 
the program. And—do not forget tho 
smokos and eats;
Admission tags are being given 
away at twent-ilvo cents per.
means of staging tbo affair, and es­
pecially aa to what sort of costumes 
would be most doBirable.
This will be distinctly an alumni 
event giving tlie old grads an oppor­
tunity to get back into tho spirit of 
college life and to have a very defin­
ito part* in making Campus Weeic a 
success.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
See These !
“PREP”
SUITS
With Two Pairs 
of Trousers
$19.75
—to—
$37.50
Snappy New 
styles for young- 
fcllows in the 
much wanted 
shades of blue, 
gray and laven­
der — English 
model coats, 
short stubby 
vests and wide 
trousers — $19.75 
to $37.50
Frank & Seder—Fourth Floor
[ CLAN NEWS j
AT COLUMBUS, OHIO
Tlie Carnegie Alumni and former 
students residing in the Columbus, 
Ohio, district will have a .dinner at 
the Patty Polk Tea Shoppe on Mon­
day evening, March 31. This will be 
tbo second get-together of tho alumni 
hero and permanent ofiicers will be 
elected at this meeting,
Miss Florence H. Lutz, M. M. '22, 
who Is managing the above tea shop, 
will bo In charge of tho dinner ar­
rangements.
BUFFALO CLAN
Alumni Luncheon at 
Wm. Penn May 16
F.R. Caldswell Chosen Toast­
master For Occasion
At the last meeting of the Buffalo 
Clan held at tbo ofiiee of the secre­
tary, William T. Spann, 52 West Chip­
pewa street, Wednesday, March 11, 
1825, it was decided upon to have 
noonday luncheons, commencing 
Thursday, March 25, and each second 
and last Thursday of tbo month fol­
lowing.
The regular meetings are to be hold 
the third Friday of each month.
With reference to place of noonday 
luncheons, and time, alBO timo and 
placo of meetings, secretary will in­
form all members to such effect.
Any Carnegie men in Buffalo at 
such time are invited to be present.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
CARNEGIE CLAN
Several months ago some members 
of the motion picture colony in Hol­
lywood staged a boxing bout at a 
cafe, over which a Russian countess 
presided. Tho lady from Moscow 
has gone—the pugilistic episode is 
being forgotten, and so the South­
ern California Carnegie Clan felt safe 
in holding Its March meeting at what 
is now known as the Merry Widow.
Perhaps the large number of alum­
ni who attended were attracted by 
the reputation of the past. Whatever 
tho reason, everyone came prepared 
for a good time and none went away 
disappointed. Tlie food was excel­
lent, the music wonderful, and the 
crowd "poppy'', and over all there 
prevailed that fine Carnegie spirit of 
good fellowship and camarderie, with 
which tho clan is so well supplied.
The clan feels particularly proud 
In having as its members, two men 
whoso names are written in the ear­
ly annals of Carnegie history—F. 35. 
Foster, captain of the first football 
team, and Earl Mosior, founder of 
Tho Thistle. ,OMECE two, aided by 
Welby Hudson and Frank Garratt: 
kept tbo rest of the party highly 
amused with stories of tho early 
days, ospoclally those relating to the 
childhood of The Tartan.
Tho April meeting, to bo hold on 
tho second Wednesday of the month, 
will be an evening bridge and Mali 
.Tongg party. This is bolng gjvon at 
tho request of tho Margaret Morri­
son Alumni, who have aBkod that tho 
procoods bo sent to tho Margfirot 
Morrison Scholarship Fund. Plans 
aro undnr way now to maleo this a 
big mooting financially and socially. 
All forms of card playing will bo por- 
mlttod provided tho winnings aro 
turned ovor to tho Fund.
“PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS"
CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
6 TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
Is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Rey- 
mer Store.
Telephone Schenley 0870-J
Approved Marinello Shop
Marcel Waving—Manicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
Treatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
MEN'S STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Filins, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Aik for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
SPECIAL TO ALL CLANS
Campus Woolc is drawing closor 
ov.ory day. Sinco Its first inception 
In 1020, Campus Woolr has boon 
growing in proportion and favor with 
all who attond. Alumnae have boon 
getting tho C. W. habit more and 
more oacli year. Those of you who 
wore., back last yoar will remember 
tho now idea which was tried and 
which proved so successful that this 
yoar It will bo one of tho biggest 
events of tho gala period. It is tho 
Country Fair, which gives opportu­
nity for originality, and frivolity to 
tho extreme. It is planned with the 
Idea of staging a mimic or a real 
Country Fair.
This year the Clans will be given 
an opportunity to participate active­
ly at the Country Fair. In fact they 
are urged to put in some act that 
will fall in line with the "Fair” idea.
Get in touch with K. B. Tillbroolc 
of tho Alumni Office for further de­
tails. Tlie fair will proba)bl3r be 
staged on Friday afternoon. The 
definite date will be announced later 
through The Tartan.
The Alumni Campus Week com­
mittee has finally decided that the 
Alumni Luncheon will be held at 
the Wm. Penn Hotel at 1:30 p. m. 
on Saturday, May 10, and arrange­
ments are being made to have every­
one well taken caro of.
F. R. Caldwell has been cliOBen as 
toastmaster, and invitations have 
been extended to several men who 
are under consideration as speakers, 
so that neither efforts nor time are 
being spared to have an interesting 
program. As announced last week, 
arrangements are being made to 
have transportation from the campus 
to the hotel. Either "bus'' or special 
street car service will be provided, 
which will permit of none offering 
the excuse that they could not get 
a car to enable them to be at tlie 
banquet on time.
Most of the alumni events will cen­
ter about the luncheon, it being found 
last year that this affair was unusu­
ally well accepted. All heavy parts of 
the program have'.bfeen deleted that the 
alumni may return to the campus as 
soon as possible to partake in the 
other events going on.
All School and Faculty Party 
In M.M. Tomorrow Afternoon
The stage is set for tlie annual 
Margaret Morrison All School and 
Faculty Party. It' is to be given to­
morrow afternoon in the M. M. Rec 
Hall by the M. M. Senate. All Mag­
gie Murph’s are invited.
For the benefit of the Plebes who 
have not heard about the All Fool's 
Day Party last year, the party must 
be explained a little. This is a time 
when the girls get together with the 
faculty for a jolly good time. Re­
freshments are served, and there is 
music and dancing (sans gentlemen, 
of course). Then came the stunts, 
first by the faculty, then by the vari­
ous departments and tlie freshmen.
Tliis year there will be Easter de­
corations and a M. M. orchestra will 
play. The purpose of the party will 
be defeated if tlie girls and faculty 
do not both attend, so it is hoped that 
all will heed this invitation and wan­
der up to tho Roc Hall about four- 
thirty.
ALUMNI-FACULTY Department of Commercial Engineering
DINNER SAT. EVE.
Alumni to Lead Discussion at 
Meeting in Downtown 
Hotel Saturday
"Hand and Seal”
Ancient oriental rulers used thumb 
Impressions on legal documents; 
hence the expression, “hereto I set my 
hand, and seal.” Incidentally this 
practice led Into the modern-day finger­
print identification system.
WhJn^One Dodges Question
When one asks another to tell him. 
what he thinks of his work and the 
other dodges, he doesn't approve of 
t1»Q work.
The second of the series of Alumni- 
Faculty meetings will be held in the 
Seventh Avenue Hotel on Saturday, 
March 28, at G:15 in the evening.
The first of these meetings was 
held in the grill, room on December 
13 of last year and was considered so 
successful that more of them have 
been arranged. Similar to the first, 
this one is lor the faculty and alumni 
of the College of Engineering.
At tlie committee meeting on Feb­
ruary 28, it was agreed that the dis­
cussion should be led principally by 
alumni. Discussion leaders have been 
appointed and a few possible topics 
suggested. Members of the Engineer­
ing Alumni are urged to attend and to 
bring up topics for discussion. The 
meeting will be conducted on open 
forum style and any one desirous of 
airing an opinion will be given the 
opportunity. In fact the committee 
invites the opening of new topics and 
discussion on them.
Some of the suggested topics for 
discussion are:
1. Re-introduction of the personal 
interview at the time of admission 
for the purpose of admitting excellent 
men who cannot enter under the pres­
ent procedure.
2. The securing of more detailed 
information on applicants for admis­
sion before they come to Carnegie 
Tech.
3. More intimate personal contact 
between the heads of the departments 
of the College of Engineering and the 
Freshmen; for instance, by means of 
lectures by the department heads.
4. A change in the course of math­
ematics and in the method of teach­
ing; for instance, by making tliird- 
year mathematics optional. The other 
option to consist of an economic or 
commercial subject.
Special effort is being made to have 
a large attendance. Reservations 
must be made before 5 o’clock on Fri­
day evening, March 27. Write or call 
G. L. Tillbroolc at tlie Alumni Office 
and secure your reservation.
COLONEL DAY IS JUDGE
AT ORATORICAL CONTEST
In a contest conducted by the In­
tercollegiate Oratorical Association 
of Pennsylvania at the Washington 
and Jefferson College on February 22, 
at which Colonel Day was a judge, 
first prize was awarded to Raymond 
D. Walter of Grove City College. His 
topic was “Measure of Mars.” Sec­
ond place was given to Teresino Ma­
rino of tho University of Pittsburgh 
on the subject “Making Americans.” 
Third place was awarded to Norman 
Webster of Geneva College on the 
subject, “Unseen Menace.”
By Prof. George H. Follows.
For the great field of work in Com­
mercial Engineering Carnegie was the 
first school of any kind to offer a dis­
tinct type of education and a bachelor 
of science degree. The pioneer “com­
mercials” were graduated from the 
department in the year 1912.
In 1919, after our commercials had 
proved their worth in scores of busi­
ness organizations, and after the 
course itself had been investigated in 
Washington by a committee specially 
appointed by the Bureau of Educa­
tion, and consisting of men nationally 
prominent in commerce, engineering 
and education, the value of the course 
was officially recognized by tlie gov­
ernment. See Department of Interior 
Bulletin No. 58, 1919—Commercial 
Engineering—180 pages.
Since 1919 some twenty of the older 
universities and schools have followed 
our lead and are now offering courses 
having the same general purpose.
The Commercial Engineer, as grad­
uated from Carnegie during the past 
fourteen years, may be defined as a 
man whose education has given him 
the engineering viewpoint together 
with a sound and comprehensive un­
derstanding of the principles of organ­
ization, administration,' and manage­
ment, as these are applied today in 
all successful organizations, regard­
less of the nature of their products or 
activities.
The course offers a generous educa­
tion; not a narrow ti’aining. The op­
portunities in the field are so varied 
and attractive as to make a strong 
appeal to the ambitious man—to the 
man who is looking forward with zest, 
not to occupying a niche carved out 
for him by somebody else, but to win­
ning success of a larger order through 
his own sterling character and abili­
ties.
No small part- of the success that 
Carnegie commercials are winning is 
undoubtedly due to the co-operative 
course in “Production and Distribu­
tion”—the major subject of the senior 
year. This course is carried on en­
tirely through; the generous and well 
organized co-operation of some forty- 
five visiting lecturers—the presidents,i
1 managers and other leading execu­
tives of twenty-eight representative 
industries of Pittsburgh and vicinity. 
These men have made it possible for 
t the department of Commercial Engi- 
| neering. to establish permanently a 
co-operative course of instruction and 
laboratory work that is unique in 
character and in educational signifi­
cance.
In a letter received from Mr. John 
L, Porter, chairman of our board of 
trustees, there is the followings: “We 
certainly are to be congratulated that 
you have brought into this course 
such remarkable co-operation as is 
evidenced by not oiily your plan and
Cross Word Puzzle No. 10
By Elleanor Tallmadgc
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN
One of the most delightful Bridge 
Teas that I have ever attended was 
the one given by the Carnegie Wo­
men’s Clan of Cleveland on March 1*1. 
The Alcazar Hotel with its unusual 
beauty of design and decoration was 
a most fitting and appropriate setting 
for a pleasant afternoon of bridge. 
Many out-of-town guests were pre­
sent, and oSrer two hundred women 
are indebted to the committee who 
worked so hard to make the party a 
success, also to the Clan for their 
hearty co-oporatlon in all ways pos­
sible.
Tho Bridge was givon as a bonofit, 
for tho iS'oliolarshlp fund which tho 
Women's Clan aro raising for tho- 
purposo of sending a Cloveland girl 
to Carneglo.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Tartan 
Ads Bring 
Results
For rates call or write the 
Advertising Manager
n1
£¦J4
•¦r
1351&*IS10
22
25Ü32fc
scope but by the lecturers whom you 
have interested in your work. These 
men are all experts in their particular 
lines.”
In the -wide range and variety ot 
their interests, the twenty-eight co­
operating concerns may be said to 
typify all commercial activities. It 
is impossible in the space available- 
here to give more than a hint at this 
range, but it reaches all the way 
from the coal mine to the breakfast 
table: It includes coal mining, coke
and by-products, iron and steel by all 
processes and in many shapes; forge 
and foundry work, production ma­
chinery and apparatus; dairy, bak­
ery, and packinghouse products, can­
ned and bottled foods and sauces; 
electrical machinery and apparatus; 
china ware, plate glass, paint, varn­
ish, paper, cement; farm light and' 
power units, airbrakes, sanitary fix­
tures, automobiles, radio, rubber- 
goods; railroad track tools; telephone- 
plant and service, line and pole hard­
ware, central station power, light 
and heat, municipal filtration, print­
ing and engraving processes, and the 
daily newspaper.
For the student who has vision the- 
story is complete: In raw materials,, 
their sources and their Conversion in­
to marketable wealth; in plants and 
equipment, personnel and the hand­
ling of men, manufacturing process­
es, markets and advertising and sell­
ing methods . . . the course affords- 
examples in rich variety. Every, 
week a different kind of business is 
studied: A lecture on production, a.
visit to the plant, a lecture on distri­
bution and a well organized typewrit­
ten report by the student, which be­
longs to him.
Meeting the visiting lecturers in the- 
class room, as well as in the plant, 
is not only a privilege but opens the 
way to valuable business connections 
later on.
Among those who have graduated- 
as Commercials there are well over 
one hundred who have already won 
marked recognition in positions of ex­
ecutive responsibility in a great vari­
ety of industries. The positions they 
are filling, both at home and abroad, 
point clearly to the lines of worlr 
which the future graduate may ex­
pect to follow. The titles that go- 
with these positions — to mention 
those only that are typical are::
Commercial Engineer, Commer­
cial Supervisor, Works Manager, Pro­
duction Engineer, Employment Man­
ager, Purchasing Agent, Sales Man­
ager. Office Manager, Editor, Techni­
cal Writer, Expert Accountant, Busi­
ness Manager, Advertising Manager, 
Foreign Representative.
The Institute publishes . a special 
illustrated Bulletin on Commercial 
Engineering, which can be obtained' 
either from the department or from 
the office of the Registrar.
MUSICAL CLUBS HOLD 
HOME CONCERT FRIDAY
Of particular interest to the Alum­
ni is the annual Home Concert of the 
Combined Musical Clubs next Friday 
evening. The program will be given 
in the Carnegie Music Hall, and will 
be followed by a dance in the ball­
room of the Schenley Hotel.
Every year a large crowd of Alum­
ni come to this big affair, but a larg­
er number than ever is expected this 
time, because of the general excel­
lence of the Clubs. In addition the 
graduates will be represented on the 
stage by some of the favorites of 
years gone by.
Reserved tickets for this affair can 
be obtained at the conveniently lo­
cated music store of Mellor’s at. 604 
Wood street, or at the Y. M. C. A. 
office in the Central building at 
school. Prices are $1.25 and §1.00 
for the concert and ?2.50 for the 
dance.
Horizontal
1—Excells all others.
5—Some men never acquire one of 
these.
9—Holiday.11—Has a reputation for being stub­
born.
13—Part of to be.
15—Man-made beauty.
10—Quick.
17—Latin suffix.
19—Error.
20—Analyze by rules of grammar.
22—A patent medicino.
24—To run off the tract.
25—Eastern state (abbrov.).
20—A kind of candy.
2S—A laugli.
20—This word and “if” constitute all 
tho difference in tho world.
30—Chain of grocory stores.
32—Clamp-liko machltio (plural).
3*1—A prefix or a suffix.
30—A piece of neclc-woar.
SS—Oddities.
41—Every blacksmith needs one.
*12—Biblical character.
•13—Exclamation meaning indeed.
*14—No Plebe should show too much 
of this.
46—Prefix meaning in three parts.
47—Part of a nautical expression.
4S—Besides.
j 49—Funeral accoutrement.
51—Scotch hillside.
52—Famous for his faithfulness.
Vertical
2—Former.
3—Mean (colloq.).
4—Carnegie publications.
5—Carnegie publications.
6—Place of prayer.
7—Again (prefix).
S—Crazy (solloq.).
10—Highway (abbrev.).
11—Everybody’s boss.
12—Perceive by contact.
Id—¡Salutation for a female.
17—A magazine.
19—One (French).
21—Part of every good yell.
23—Biblical measure.
24—Oriental fruit.
27—Man’s name.
30—Italian river.
31—Short for a famous dancer.
32—A contrivance for carrying ar­
ticles from place to place.
33—Mose Techites have loads of this.
34—Period of time.
35—Part of a corset.'
30—Twenty-four bottles.
37—Well known southern neighbor,
39—Wicker-work.
40—One founded our college.
45—This and the general store make 
a village (abbrev.).
46—Popular name for a disease of 
the lungs.
4S—Abbreviation for nature of 1925 
Arts Ball.
50—-Above abbreviation reversed.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellowa 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Act Passed 190 Times
Each year for 190 years, from 1681) 
to 1879, the British parliament passed 
the “Mutiny Act,” which provided for 
the punishment of cases of mutiny 
and desertion, and for the proper up­
keep of a standing army.
Clark’s 
Women’s Shop
CRAIG & CENTER
New Spring Dresses, 
Hats and Coats 
Prices Reasonable
j
RE\ Oakland Savings & * 
:=: Trust Co *
Ÿ Mei.-îber Federal Reservo y
£ System. <0
Capital - .......................$300,000.00 £X Surplus........................$300,000.00
’t* Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 Y
X ¿& SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES A
y FOR RENT
?!«
This Year You Can Go to EUROPE
R
ECENT reductions in Tourist Third Class steamship fares 
. make it possible forpracticaliyeveryone to afford a Europ­
ean trip. Round tripratesbetvveenNewYorkandEnglandare 
$ 155 to$ 167; betweenNew York and Cherbourg $162and$175.
Make your reservations now 
. for one of these sailings:
S. S. Leviathan . . June 13th S. S. Geo. Washington July 8th S. S. Republic . . July 15th
Exclusive Tourist Third Class on these ships is an assur­
ance of a comfortable and delightful voyage at lowest cost. 
Enjoy light, airy and spotlessly clean staterooms for 2,4 or 6 
persons; attractively appointed public rooms; large, bright 
diningrooms and excellent food. Daily concerts, dances and 
sports on broad, sunny decks contribute to joyous days at sea.
Ask the United States Lines’ representative on your campus 
for full particulars and illustrated literature, including a 
Princeton Professor’s account of his trip last summer. Prac­
tical itineraries and itemized costs of a variety of European 
tours are contained in this 32-page booklet.
United States Lines
45 Broadway New York City
Managing Operators for
UNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD
LOCAL OFFICE—JENKINS ARCADE
