Volume 92, Issue 2Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 19068 September 1997
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
When the Communications 
Decency Act (CDA) first passed 
through the US House and Sen­
ate chambers in 1996, Internet 
users in the United States black- 
ened-their webpages and rewrote 
their signature files, “RIP Free­
dom of Speech: 1787 — 1996.”
And when President Clinton 
signed the CDA into law, oppo­
nents to the bill fought back 
vigilantly. The American Civil 
Liberties Union (ACLU) filed suit 
in Philadelphia on behalf of its 
members and20 otherorganizations.
The ACLU won the trial case 
Reno v. ACLU et al and the ap­
peal to the Supreme Court, which 
declared the CDA unconstitu­
tional for its compromise of 
Internet speech.
Last Thursday, attorney Chris 
Hansen, who represented the 
ACLU in both cases, spoke to a
CMU audience explaining the 
major implications of restricted 
Internet speech. He explained the 
issues as the Supreme Court, trial 
court, and government saw them.
The CDA tried to create guide­
lines that defined what is and _ 
is not considered to be obscene 
content submitted over the 
Internet. The bill would have 
allowed those who partici­
pated in supposedly indecent 
cyber-talk to be brought up on 
criminal charges.
The ACLU and other organi­
zations — such as Microsoft, 
Wired Inc., the National Press 
Photographers Association, 
and the Citizens Internet Em- “ 
powerment Coalition — chal­
lenged the CDA on the grounds 
that the language of the CDA 
was so vague that it would ban 
many types of speech with educa­
tional and artistic value.
The ACLU also claimed that 
the CDA would be ineffective
since 40 to 50 percent of Internet 
hits are to overseas servers, 
which the CDA would have no 
ability to regulate.
“The government struggled to 
define what ‘indecency’ was,” said
on the Web for appropriateness 
of content. One example was a 
picture of an erect male penis 
showing how to properly put on 
a condom.
“The porn expert thought for a
“The government struggled to define 
what ‘indecency' was.... The government 
has a porn expert — yes, we pay taxes 
for a porn expert — who testified during 
the trial."
— Chris Hansen, ACLU attorney
Hansen. “The government has a 
porn expert — yes, we pay taxes 
for a porn expert — who testified 
during the trial.”
Hansen said that the porn ex­
pert was asked to evaluate vari­
ous images that might be foundSuicide bombers kill seven
JERUSALEM (AP) — Three suicide bombs ex­
ploded within a few deadly seconds in the heart of 
Jerusalem on Thursday, spraying rusty nails into a 
crowd of shoppers and late-summer tourists on the 
city’s main pedestrian mall.
The blasts, claimed by the Islamic militant group 
Hamas, killed seven people — including the three 
bombers — and struck a new blow to the peace 
process just as hopes were rising for its revival.
At least 192 people, including several American 
tourists, were also wounded in the Jerusalem at­
tack, which turned the bustling Ben Yehuda Street 
walkway of cafes and shops into a chaotic nightmare 
of broken glass and blood. The dead included a 12- 
year-old girl.
The bombers apparently positioned themselves 
outside three stores, close enough to make eye 
contact, and blew themselves up within seconds of 
each other.
“There were three of us talking, and suddenly I 
heard an explosion,” said Bob Helfman of Detroit, 
who was sitting at a cafe when the attack began. “I 
tried to get up, realizing it was a bomb, but my feet 
could not even support me, and I fell over. Then I 
heard another bomb, and everyone started running. 
No one knew which direction to go in.”
With sirens wailing and a charred smell in the air, 
rescue workers treated some victims on the side­
walk, surrounded by overturned cafe chairs and 
umbrellas. In a scene that has become all too famil­
iar in Israel, ultra-Orthodox burial squad volun­
teers searched for pieces of flesh in the debris.
After the blasts, Israel stepped up pressure on
Palestinian leader Yassir Arafat for an immedi­
ate crackdown on Islamic militants, and sealed its 
borders with the West Bank and Gaza Strip. A 
previous closure had been eased only two days 
earlier, ahead of the planned visit of U.S. Secre­
tary of State Madeleine Albright next week.
In Washington, President Clinton denounced 
the latest bombings and said Albright would go 
ahead with her trip. He urged Arafat’s Palestin­
ian Authority to “do all it can to create an envi­
ronment that leaves no doubt that terror will not 
be tolerated.”
The three nail-studded bombs exploded shortly 
after 3 pm, when hundreds of shoppers and tour­
ists crowded the pedestrian mall, which is lined 
with cafes, tourist shops, and American fast food 
restaurants such as Burger King and Sbarro.
Hamas, which has carried out 13 bombings in 
four years of Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking, 
claimed responsibility and threatened more bomb­
ings unless Hamas prisoners held by Israel were 
released by September 14.
Arafat condemned the attack, and a senior 
Palestinian official pledged full cooperation with 
Israel on security matters. But Netanyahu said 
the already deeply troubled peace process could 
not go on unless Arafat crushed Hamas once and 
for all.
“No peace process can exist when the Palestin­
ian Authority enables the leaders of the terrorists 
to walk around free with their arms, demonstra­
tions, and flags in cities that have become refuges 
for terrorists,” he said.
couple of minutes, and thought, 
and finally he said, ‘Well, I guess 
that would be okay — no, that’s 
not indecent,”’ said Hansen.
ACLU attorneys asked the 
porn expert whether he would 
consider Vanity Fair’s cover with
a nude, pregnant Demi Moore to 
be indecent.
“He thought for a couple of min­
utes on that one, and said it would 
be indecent,” said Hansen. “We 
asked him what the difference 
between a picture of an erect 
penis and an artfully shad­
owed Demi Moore was, and 
he says, ‘Well, the magazine 
is fun.’”
“I knew that if he was saying 
sex should be illegal if it’s fun, 
we were in pretty good shape,” 
he said.
The three federal judges who 
tried the case in Philadelphia 
ruled that the CDA, in its en- 
“ tirety, was unconstitutional 
for its overly broad restric­
tions on free speech, declaring that 
the internet should be granted 
the rail range of free speech rights, 
secure from restrictions, due to 
the nature of the medium.
“We assumedthe Supreme Court 
would be more esoteric, that they
wouldn’t know anything about CGI 
scripting or Java or whatever, so 
we didn’t focus on that while pre­
paring our arguments,” said 
Hansen. “And of course, the first 
question... was, ‘Why isn’t the prob­
lem [of filtering content] solved by 
CGI scripting?’ ”
Hansen also touched on is­
sues such as the growing pres­
sure for Netscape and Microsoft 
to include auto-blocking soft­
ware in their browsers. He de­
tailed two ACLU victories for 
free speech in other parts of the 
country — the first in Georgia 
that required any Internet 
transmission originating from, 
traveling to, or passing through 
the state of Georgia to have the 
full name of the sender making 
any sort of handle or anony­
mous email address illegal.
“All of the issues relating to law 
and the internet are sort of up in the 
air right now,” Hansen said, “which 
makes my job very exciting.”
'—con ervdrm P/e/dra y/arCrvd
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center re­
cently moved into its newly constructed location, 
freeing up the former location for student use.
The new structure is on the first floor of 
More wood Gardens, where the Piper’s Cafe once 
resided. The complex cost approximately $1.5 
million to construct.
SDC President Brain Bluth, a senior biology
major, said, “From what I understand, the child 
care center needed more space and when Pipers 
was closed they moved in. Plus, I think they had 
a desire to move out of the basement into a place 
more accessible for young children.”
One hundred children attend the Child Care 
Center. There is a wait list — CMU parents are 
given priority.
“It was a pretty complicated space between 
two sections of the building and it’s pretty siz- 
Please see BASEMENT, page 3
The children of the Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center enjoy their new facility in Morewood Gardens.
Inside
Calendar.............................L12
Living.......................................LI
Forum........................................4
Sports........................................7
Forum
Writers argue over Di 
• see page 5
Features
CMU technology shapes life 
• see page LI
Sports
Tennis hits the top 
• see page 7
THE TARTAN
concern over dorm
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor
In the season home opener, the CMU football team defeated Denison University 32-7. The Tartans’ rushing game rolled 
over the Denison defense in the second half — scoring three touchdowns in the final six minutes of the game.
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
In response to insufficient on-campus 
space, CMU officials are toying with 
plan for a new building between 
Morewood Gardens and Mudge House. 
Although the new dorm would reduce 
housing shortages for both upper-class 
and first-year students, it has raised con­
cerns among local residents.
A confidential meeting focusing on 
the implications of a another building 
in the area was held last Wednesday 
between CMU representative Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, and 
residents of Devonshire Road, a private 
residential street adjacent to the pro­
posed building site.
The issues discussed at this meeting 
related to conflicting interests between 
CMU officials, who are considering build­
ing a nine-story dormitory building at this 
site, and residents, who wish to ensure 
their community is preserved.
Currently, there is no definitive design in 
place for a new building, although the plans 
have been for a suite or apartment-style
arrangement that would accommodate 
both students and summer conferences.'
“The conflict of interest here is that there 
are a number of homeowners who object to 
the building of a dorm as large as the one 
the university would like to build,” said 
David Fowler, a retired CMU professor 
and a resident on this road.
Pittsburgh zoning guidelines limit the 
height of a structure at this site to no more 
than three stories. If CMU decides to pur­
sue construction of a building that exceeds 
this limit, a variance would have to be filed 
with the City of Pittsburgh Zoning Board 
because of the building size and its close 
proximity to a residential area.
According to Jim Brown, the Zoning 
Administrator for the City of Pittsburgh 
with the Department of City Planning, the 
University would have to file a variance, in 
this case a conditional use exception pro­
posal. CMU has not yet filed for the vari­
ance. Construction of such a facility would 
only be feasible after a public hearing, a 
review by the planning commission, and 
approval by the City Council.
Meanwhile, Devonshire Road residents 
Please see DEVONSHIRE, page 3ACLU attorney recalls defeat of Internet restrictions
P/ay ball...Community voices

---------------------------------------------------

ui—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTb
UOd—rm irmra/ ncra /d Nb
CALCUTTA, India (AP) — Mother 
Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun re­
vered for her tireless dedication to the 
world’s most wretched, died of a heart 
attack, surrounded by grieving sisters 
of her order. She was 87.
Crowds of weeping people stood in 
the rain before dawn in the streets 
outside her Missionaries of Charity 
home in central Calcutta. P9pe John 
Paul II, U.S. President Bill Clinton and 
other world leaders praised Mother 
Teresa and her commitment to the poor. 
With Mother Teresa gone, “there is less 
love in the world, less compassion, less 
light,” said President Jacques Chirac 
of France. “She leaves us a strong mes­
sage which has no borders and which 
. goes beyond faith: helping, listening, 
. solidarity. The world is in mourning.”
The frail, 4-foot-11-inch (150-centi­
meter) nun, who was born in Europe 
but became an Indian citizen during 
her six decades on the subcontinent, 
had suffered heart problems and other 
; ailments for years. She gave up lead­
courtesy of Reuters
Mother Teresa of Calcutta arrives in Rome on May 
16,1997. The 87-year-old nun died September 5.
ership of her order in March because 
she was too ill to do the job.
Sister Nirmala, Teresa’s successor, 
said the funeral would be held 
Wednesday, the 51st anniversary of 
the day Mother Teresa received what 
she said was a calling from Jesus “to 
serve Him among the poorest of the 
poor.” Sister Nirmala said a site had 
been chosen in the Missionaries of 
Charity’s headquarters in this east­
ern metropolis, and nuns were con­
tacting the Vatican before finalizing 
the funeral arrangements.
Mother Teresa’s body was taken to 
a chapel at the convent and laid, with 
hands clasped, in the simple habit 
worn by members of her order — a 
blue-trimmed white sari and a long- 
sleeved blouse. “The city will not be 
the same again,” said Khokan Sen, a 
shopkeeper who joined thousands of 
others in a line outside the Charity.
The Vatican said Pope John Paul II 
would celebrate a Mass for her on 
Saturda}' at Castel Gandolfo, his sum­
mer residence outside Rome. “Her 
death touched his heart 
very deeply,” said the 
Rev. Ciro Benedettini, a 
spokesman.
Working in the slums 
of Calcutta 50 years ago, 
Mother Teresa started 
taking in the destitute 
dying in gutters, shelter­
ing infants abandoned in 
trash heaps, soothing the 
ulcers of lepers and help­
ing the insane. A British 
TV documentary about 
her in 1969 brought “the 
saint of the gutters” in­
ternational attention, 
and volunteers and do­
nations poured in to the 
religious order she 
founded. That allowed 
her to spread her work 
around the globe, with 
more than 500 missions 
in 100 countries by mid- 
1990. She received the 
Nobel Peace Prize in 
1979.
Strike halts city transportation
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Employees 
of the area’s commuter train system 
walked off the job Sunday in a pay 
dispute, a strike that could strand thou­
sands when the work week begins. The 
Bay Area Rapid Transit’s 56 trains 
were idled as about 65,000 weekend 
riders were forced to find other trans­
portation. There were no immediate 
problems Sunday. But commuter head­
aches were expected Monday morning 
if the 275,000 daily riders are forced 
onto roadways.
“Start planning now for how you’re 
going to get to where you need to get to 
Monday morning,” BART spokesman 
Mike Healy said. “It won’t be quite as 
tough on a Sunday, so you’ve got a full 
day to start thinking about alterna­
tives.” Healy said operating the system 
without the striking workers was not 
an option.
The system’s 2,600 train operators, 
station agents, mechanics and other 
workers walked out at 12:01 a.m. Sun­
day. Negotiations resumed later in the 
day between BART management and 
unions representing the workers but 
broke off about three hours later. No 
new talks were scheduled.
Members of BART’s two largest 
unions voted last week to reject an 
offer that would have raised their sala­
ries 3 percent a year for three years. 
Union members reportedly are seek­
ing annual raises of 6.5 percent, 5.5 
percent and 5 percent over the three 
years of a new contract. BART workers 
are among the highest-paid transit 
employees in the United States. Main­
tenance workers earn a base wage of 
$48,000 and train operators and sta­
tion agents make $40,900.
Bill Lloyd, a negotiator for Service 
Employees International Union Local 
790, said the unions refused to accept 
management’s “last, best offer.” “We are 
not getting paid enough,” Lloyd said. 
“We are workers. We are suffering just 
like tomorrow when commuters trying 
to get into San Francisco, they’ll suffer. 
So we’re all suffering together.”
Richard Eng, a surgical technician who 
rides BART three times a week from
Berkeley to San Francisco, had little 
sympathy for striking employees. “BART 
was built partly on public funds,” said 
Eng, 31. “They should say, ‘Hey, if you’re 
not going to work for $25 an hour, we’ll 
find people who will.’ If they’re stupid 
enough to give up their jobs, then that’s 
too bad.”
BART’s last protracted strike was for 
three months in 1979, when ridership 
on the 93-mile system was about half its 
current number.
American unites with Russian MIR
MOSCOW (AP) — The Mir’s former 
crew were deemed responsible for a June 
space collision, space officials said. Mean­
while, NASA gave the go-ahead today 
for American astronaut Michael Foale 
to participate in a six-hour spacewalk 
intended to patch holes in the outside of 
the Mir’s Spektr module. The decision to 
let Foale perform Saturday’s mission 
with Mir commander Anatoly Solovyov 
had been expected. Foale, whose only 
previous spacewalk was from a U.S. 
shuttle, has been rehearsing for the walk 
in a Russian spacesuit for weeks.
The space agencies said the Mir’s 
former Russian crew—Vasily Tsibliyev 
and Alexander Lazutkin—bore respon­
sibility for the June 25 collision with a 
cargo ship. A report issued Tuesday by 
Valery Ryumin, the Russian coordina­
tor of the Mir-NASA program, said a 
preliminary inquiry concluded “beyond 
any doubt” that the crash was the result 
of errors by the crew members. It went 
on to say that the former crew is likely to 
be fined. “There is no force which would 
change our opinion,” Ryumin said, add­
ing that there was “irrefutable evidence” 
of the crew’s guilt.
The Russian space program badly 
needs to keep the Mir aloft because it 
generates tens of millions of dollars in 
payments annually from the United 
States and other countries that send 
up astronauts. The Russians have said 
they want to keep Mir in orbit until
1999, or at least until the first segment 
of a new international space station 
becomes operational in the latter part 
of 1998.
Meanwhile, one former Mir cosmonaut 
said the 11-year-old space station is full
of worn-out equipment. Gennady 
Strekalov said the Mir’s equipment is 
used “until it’s completely worn out and 
this always has very dangerous conse­
quences. It’s all down to a lack of funding. 
And the crew can’t be blamed for that.”
Apple terminates clone experiment
CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA (Clari 
News) — Fred Anderson, Apple’s chief 
financial officer, said Apple has no plans 
to license the company’s newest tech­
nologies. Effectively, Mac clone makers 
Motorola, IBM and Umax, are prevented 
from building and selling future 
Macintosh clones. Also, a $100 million 
acquisition of Power Computingremoves 
the leading Mac clone developer from 
competing with Macintosh clone compa­
nies after this-year. Macintosh clone 
manufacturers, by the middle of 1998, 
will not have the technology to supply 
clones comparable to Macintosh systems.
According to acquisition terms, Power 
Computing will halt sales of Mac clones 
by December 31, 1997. Apple, through 
the acquisition, reacquires the Mac OS 
license, certain yet-to-be-identified 
Power Computing assets, and the right 
to hire Power Computing employees. 
Power Computing will retain rights to 
the name ‘Tower Computing.”
Apple said valuable lessons were 
learned. One of those lessons is a pos­
sible expansion of direct consumer sales. 
Anderson said, “We have always had 
direct sales in the education market and 
we will continue to support retailers on 
the consumer side and resellers who 
distribute Macintosh solutions to the 
business world.”
He did not specify dates or specific 
strategies for a direct consumer sales 
market, but revealed, “We will move to a 
more balanced model.” The balancing of 
a direct sales market with the company’s 
traditionally strong and supportive re­
tailers and resellers could create further 
problems for the troubled company.
At the heart of the issue, Anderson 
said, 99 percent of clone sales came 
from existing Macintosh markets de­
veloped by Apple. The great OS licens­
ing experiment failed to meet goals, 
and Apple, today, outlined the end of 
Macintosh clones.
1adcC/drn CcoocOva s/d—rm in mrCrCym/ver OA yroOPrn lmcveraa ,c/v/
LONDON (AP) — Tears and 
flowers and inconsolable crowds 
followed Diana to her final rest­
ing place in England’s green 
hills Saturday, in an extraordi­
nary day of pageantry and proud 
tribute from a land the sad and 
smiling princess spoke longingly 
of fleeing.
! And before she was lowered into 
that solitary grave, reportedly 
with a rosary from Mother Teresa, 
a million British people poured 
out their hearts in a final farewell 
-f- in the cool morning outside her 
Kensington Palace home, in the 
sparkling midday sun at 
Westminster Abbey, on London’s 
boulevards and grand plazas. They 
cried at the courage of Prince Wil­
liam, 15, and Prince Harry, 12, as
they walked behind their mother’s 
funeral cortege. They sang along 
with hymns of old and Elton John’s 
new version of “Candle in the 
Wind.” The pop hymn for Diana, 
England’s rose, made her boys 
weep. But mostly they stood 
watching and reflecting on the 
tragedy that snatched this imper- 
fectheroine, the Princess ofWales, 
from their lives, in the senseless 
wreck of a car just six days earlier.
Diana died in Paris Sunday 
with her new millionaire boy­
friend, Dodi Fayed, when their 
car crashed as it fled at high speed 
from celebrity photographers. 
Ten paparazzi are being investi­
gated for possible roles in their 
deaths. But blame fell too on the 
couple’s driver, also killed, who
was found to be legally drunk.
Hundreds of thousands of 
people pressed around the abbey, 
joining in the funeral service of a 
shining 36-year-old woman most 
had never met but all had taken 
as their princess.
“It is such a shame that we 
could not have done this for her in 
life,” said one man outside 
Kensington Palace, “so she could 
have known how we felt.”
The tenor bell at Westminster 
Abbey began tolling once every 
minute as six Irish draught horses 
from The King’s Troop, Royal 
Horse Artillery, set off from 
Kensington Palace at 9:08 am 
(4:08 am EDT). The coffin was 
covered with flowers and draped 
in the monarch’s flag, the Royal
Standard. One bouquet bore a 
card reading simply, “Mummy.”
At least a million people had 
pressed into the center of London 
to pay their respects, and hun­
dreds of thousands more lined 
roads along the way to the burial 
site at the family estate in 
Northamptonshire.
The turmoil flowing from 
Diana’s death left new doubts 
about the future of the House of 
Windsor. It found itself dimin­
ished and scorned in compari­
son to her, yet Diana’s aura may 
strengthen the monarchy in the 
person of William. To millions ' 
of Britons, this awkward, blond 
and smiling boy is the very pic­
ture of the princess they have 
just buried.
- ) '\-Kâ
1 ' i - >>5
. g» F -**sSàte
/ji
•«ri. vuKr
courtesy of ReutersThousands of British line the streets to pay their respects to Princess 
Diana as her hearse goes by. Her funeral was held September 7.
wOpmh,/I wOmre/ad '/mvrscr LoC/v/e
Tuesdaygl Partly Cloudy. 
Hi 76 Lo 55
WednesdayScattered t-storms. 
Hi 73 Lo 55
ThursdayScattered t-storms. 
Hi 72 Lo 53
FridayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 73 Lo 54
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 14, 
1947 — The first fall meeting of 
the Student Council was held 
and the leading item on the 
agenda was the organization 
budgets. Many organizations 
such as WCIT, the campus radio 
station at the time, were request­
ing an increase in funds over the 
previous budget to accomodate 
expansion. However, the Student 
Council, limited in how much it 
could allocate, was forced to ei­
ther turn down some of the re­
quests or give organizations sig­
nificantly less than requested.
25 YEARS AGO, September 
19,1972 — Behind Donner Hall, 
two weeks previous, a student 
was approached from the rear 
and forced to accompany three 
men to a garage. There she was 
brutally assaulted and raped. 
At the time, Security had de­
scriptions of three white male 
suspects from the greater-Pitts- 
burgh area connected with this 
and at least three or four other 
similar incidents. The police had 
linked the suspects to a car used 
in another incident and had a 
composite sketch of a person 
seen in the area at the approxi­
mate time of the assault. A 
friend of the girl revealed that 
men of the same description 
forced her to go with them, but 
she was not assaulted.
TEN YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 9, 1987 — For the first time 
in campus history, a dry rush 
was implemented for all frater­
nities. This period was desig­
nated to last for two weeks dur­
ing which parties could be held, 
but alcohol would be strictly for­
bidden. The fraternities said the 
decision was made jointly by the
members of the Greek commu­
nity and University officials. Stu­
dent reaction was mixed, some 
offering that it is generally a 
good idea while others claimed 
that it was just for the Univer­
sity to look good.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 8,1992—H&SS continued to 
outline the plans for a new core 
curriculum, which in the previ­
ous year had been deemed to need 
a major overhaul. Over the year, 
the review committee learned 
that students wanted more flex­
ibility with the core. The basic 
core was realigned into four large 
disciplines. The core require­
ments were to be fulfilled by the 
second year of the student’s time 
in H&SS. Not all of the old core 
was scrapped, as that was unnec­
essary. The new core was to be 
ready for the fall of 1993.
ONE YEAR AGO, September 
9, 1996 — For the first time in 
five years, Carnegie Mellon 
University’s rankings in U.S. 
News and World. Report slipped 
out of the top 25 accredited uni­
versities in the country to 28th 
place. CMU officials said it was 
clear that U.S. News had changed 
some of the ways that they mea­
sured the universities of the na­
tion. They also said that the uni­
versities aren’t changing as much 
as the rankings would suggest. 
GSIA, ranked third in the previ­
ous year among business gradu­
ate programs, slipped to number 
five. CMU’s engineering program, 
which was also number three the 
year before, slipped to number 
six, but CMU’s ECE department 
was second only to MIT.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

i—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTb
UPCOMING
EVENT
October 1
Recruiting: 
Operations & 
Systems
UOmrROOn s/cva mremr/dcOv aE/er
BASEMENT, from page 1
able, it had to be completely gutted and 
rebuilt and we think it’s a high qual­
ity,” said Patrick Keating, vice presi­
dent for Business and Administration.
Tuition payments and a 20-year 
loan from the University funded the 
new center.
The child care program was named 
“One of the area’s best” by the Pitts­
burgh Post Gazette in 1996, and was 
one the first schools to be accredited by 
the National Academy of Early Child­
hood programs.
“My view is that the child care cen­
ter provides an excellent service and 
they needed and deserved a more ap­
propriate space,” said Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy.
The 9,500 square foot newly con­
structed structure contains a central 
piazza and dining area, an adminis­
trative area, an infant area for chil­
dren between the ages of three months 
and two years, a documentation room, 
a kitchen, three preschool rooms, a 
kindergarten room, a staff lounge, an 
observation room equipped with one 
way mirrors that look into two of the 
class rooms, a faculty lounge, and an 
altier or art room which is scheduled 
to be finished on September 8.
The center is modeling its programs 
and the structure itself around the 
highly acclaimed child 
care program of Reggio 
Emilia, Italy.
In 1991 Newsweek 
hailed Reggio Emilia 
program as the best 
early childhood pro­
gram in the world.
“They [The schools in 
Reggio Emilia] view 
teachers as research­
ers, and the children 
as strong, rich, and 
powerful,” said Marsha 
Poster, Executive Di­
rector of the center.
The center draws 
many features in­
spired from Reggio 
program, such as 
mirrors placed in the 
tiles and on the walls 
of to encourage chil­
dren to explore the
The halls of the new building are 
lined with maple battens, or frames, to 
prominently display the children’s work
The Morewood basement, the 
center’s previous location, will even­
tually become a public area for stu­
dents. A joint committee between stu­
dent affairs, student government, and 
SDC was formed in March to decide 
how to use the space.
“We’re in the process of making a 
concrete plan. We’re going to talk to 
alumni and corporations because the 
University doesn’t have any money to 
fund us. Annete Allison, head of hospi­
tality, was our main contact person and 
recently left, so we have to reestablish 
contact with Neal Binstock [the acting 
head of hospitality],” said Mike 
Szudarek, the Student Senate Campus 
Affairs Chair and a senior IDS major.
Since Allison’s resignation the progam 
has been put on hold.
“Bryon Krug [the Student President] 
and I are sitting down this week to 
reinstate the committee and asses the 
progress thus far,” said Bluth.
Ideas for the space include food vend­
ing machines, a coffee house, games, a 
dance club, and a concert area.
“We want to have a concrete plan in 
the next six to eight weeks because we 
can’t just go to alumni and say ‘We 
want to build stuff,” said Szudarek.
“We don’t want to set a deadline for* 
completion, but we want to set one for 
submitting a plan.”
The University will help with func 
raising once a proposal is approved for* 
the project.
“I don’t want to touch the Morewooc 
recreation room,” said Szudarek.” ] 
want a place for students to hangout, a 
place for students to relax and social­
ize, something bigger and better than 
what we have now. I think that every­
one in the project agrees on the finai 
goal, but we can’t agree on exactly what 
we want there.”
Szudarek said that he favors making 
something similar but larger than the 
old Scotland Yard coffee house.
“The University is worried about los­
ing money. In the past Scotland Yarc 
lost money, the Graduate Coffee House 
lost money, and Skibo is losing money 
We need to prove our plan is viable,’ 
said Szudarek.
Once the new area is built anc 
started up, the University will over­
see its upkeep and manage its day-to- 
day operation.
“For me personally, I don’t want to 
do something for the sake of doing 
something. I want to do it right. I: 
something unique does come by SDC 
is willing to make a contribution,’ 
said Bluth.
light and reflections. A new 9,500-square foot structure was constructed behind Morewood for the Child Care program
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Series creates CMU leaders
SNAPSHOT, a series on lead­
ership, is being sponsored by the 
Student Life Office. On Saturday 
September 20 at the McKeever 
Environmental Learning Center 
near Grove City, PA. The semi­
nar provides CMU students with 
the opportunity to interact with 
other students from the surround­
ing area.
The series began in 1996 with 
two programs designed to offer 
core leadership skills to CMU stu­
dents. Presented in a half-day 
format, the events include key­
note addresses and small group 
discussions on topics such as com­
munications, applied ethics, and 
decsion making. The SNAPSHOT 
series will expand this year to 
include four programs, including 
a renewal of the Skills for Lead­
ership seminars previously of­
fered at CMU.
The programs should appeal to 
officers and members of student 
organizations as well as students 
that seek to develop leadership 
skills on their own.
The Student Life Office has 
joined other institutions in offer­
ing the Western Pennslyvania 
Student Leadership Conference. 
This year’s conference will focus 
on Creative Leadership.
PhD discusses DNA mapping
Dr. Richard M. Karp, profes­
sor of computer science and en­
gineering and adjunct professor 
of molecular biotechnology at 
the University of Washington 
will speak in Wean Hall on 
Thursday, September 11. The 
lecture, which will be held in 
WH 7500 at 4 pm, is titled “Com­
binatorial Optimization as a 
Tool for Molecular Biology.”
Large-scale computation is a 
crucial tool when dealing with 
genomes. In the lecture, Karp 
will describe some of the appli­
cations of the computation of a 
genome’s sequence and the in­
terpretation of that sequence. 
The key example will be physi­
cal mapping of the genome. He 
will also describe important new 
technology of DNA arrays and 
some of the associated computa­
tional problems.
Karp, who received his PhD in 
Applied Mathematics at Harvard 
University in 1959, was a profes­
sor of computer science, math­
ematics, and operations research 
at the Unviersity of California, 
Berkeley from 1968-94. In 1995, 
he assumed the position at the 
University of Washington which 
he currently holds.Violinist holds charity concert
Violinist Dr. L. Subramaniam, 
acclaimed Carnatic musician, 
will be performing a concert for 
charity on September 13 at 
Synod Hall off Craig Street. All 
proceeds will go to the Associa­
tion for India’s Development, a 
non-profit charitable organiza­
tion which is doing projects in 
literacy, health care, rural de­
velopment, vocational training, 
women’s empowerment, and 
children’s welfare.
Subramanium, through his su­
perb blending of Carnatic and 
Western classical music, has 
taken many a venue, like Bolshoi 
Theater, the Lincoln Center, 
Royal Albert Hall, and United 
Nations, by storm. He was also a 
featured soloist in “All the 
World’s Violins” held in Belgium 
along with Sir Yehudi Menuhin 
and Stephane Grappelli. 
Subramanium has also scored 
the music for movies such as 
“Saalam Bombay” and “Missis­
sippi Masala.”
kOe/o mracnrvdaD e/CEpa 
OAAcec/oa nry/dr vrR nOmC
At Prudential, we let top achievers do what they do best
Are you ready for our Corporate Fast Track?
(¿¡¡¡> Prudential
DEVONSHIRE, from page 1
have been troubled with how such a facility 
may impact their property and the way 
communication between themselves and 
the University has been conducted regard­
ing this matter.
“CMU has a problem of where to house 
students and residents also have a prob-
protest [to a high-rise dormitory facility] 
and to offset any opposition, they made 
offers,” said Evans.
“My understanding is that the Univer­
sity has long-term interests in acquiring 
property on this street and when offers 
were made [to property owners], it was 
pursuing [these] interests,” said Fowler.
We're seeking the best and 
brightest. Prudential’s Accelerated 
Development Programs (ADP) give 
outstanding college graduates a chance 
to launch a career on a fast track. We 
offer exciting paths in almost every 
area of our business. We’re looking for 
achievers from diverse backgrounds 
who share one special quality—a thirst 
for challenge.
Big company resources, small 
company attention. Our programs 
combine hands-on experience and innovative 
classroom techniques with one-on-one 
mentoring. Through a series of assignments, 
participants get the chance to develop 
a wide variety of skills.
A chance to make a difference.
Prudential is known throughout the world 
as a leader in financial services, and in 
communities everywhere for our service 
efforts. Participants in our programs are not 
only top scholars, but also leaders in school 
and community activities.
Get to know us. If you are ambitious 
and creative with demonstrated leadership 
skills and a strong GPA, we’d like to speak 
with you in more detail about career 
opportunities.
We encourage you to submit your resume 
and find out about any of the corporate 
management career tracks ADP offers:
Actuarial • Finance 
Human Resources & Marketing 
Insurance • Investments 
Operations & Systems
Please check with your career services 
office for resume submission deadlines 
and interview locations.
Tor more information, you can visit our 
website at www.prudenlial.com
Prudential offers a highly competitive 
salary and benefits package. We are an 
equal opportunity/affirmative action 
employer and, are committed to diversity 
in our work force.
Brian smith/1 artan Whoto Starr 
The residents of Devonshire Road met with Dean Murphy to discuss their concerns 
over CMU’s proposal for a new, nine-story dormitory between Mudge and Morewood.
lem. We want to maintain our neighbor­
hood,” said Bruce Block, a Devonshire 
Road resident and the temporary mod­
erator for the Devonshire Road neigh­
borhood association.
“Homeowners are distraught about how 
the construction of a dorm would affect 
property values of the homes. How would 
this dorm affect the ambiance of the neigh­
borhood, the environment, and our prop­
erty?” said Nancy Evans, another resident.
CMU students have proven to be very 
good citizens in this regard, said Murphy.
“The University has always been cor­
dial and solicitous when dealing with us 
but this time [they] were very aggres­
sive,” she said. “We have been good neigh­
bors with the University and have had 
no problems living this close to students. 
This is a unique oasis — we all enjoy 
being neighbors,” said Evans.
CMU has made offers to Devonshire 
Road homeowners to purchase proper­
ties along this street. “I believe the Uni­
versity is concerned about the degree of
Murphy said two houses along the 
street have been purchased although 
they are still occupied by the previ­
ous owners.
These homes will be used as family 
housing, possibly for faculty or staff, but 
not for students, he said.
“The discussion with neighbors has been 
very constructive, with a few early rough 
spots as with any sensitive issue. We are 
working together to try to ensure that 
everyone’s heeds and concerns are met, 
and our recent discussions have been pro­
ductive,” Murphy said.
Currently, CMU officials are explor­
ing a variety of options in building height 
and configuration.
“Whether the building we will ulti­
mately propose will require a variance 
or not remains to be seen, but regard­
less it is our ambition to have neighbor 
support,” said Murphy.
If construction is approved, the earliest 
date a new dormitory could be constructed 
would be the fall of2000.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University8 September 1997
,rE/mdCrvda vrrn dO 
mrd—cv! iL ad/vn/mna
Over a decade ago, former 
president Richard Cyert wrote a 
memo funding the International 
Culture Communications Cen­
ter, requiring all graduate teach­
ing assistants (TAs) to take an 
English language exam. TAs who 
failed the exam were not able to 
TA courses. Teaching quality in 
recitations improved ten-fold 
since then.
However, many students still 
complain that TAs are inefficient 
resources. While applicants must 
go through interviews, training, 
and language exams many TAs 
still come to class unprepared to 
teach. TAs should know what ma­
terial is covered by the professor 
in lecture, the content of any text­
books students are required to 
read, and the answers to most 
questions pretainingto the course. 
Yet, a good number of TAs fail to 
meet these basic qualifications.
Of those who do know the ma­
terial, many lack the communi­
cation skills needed to convey 
information to students.
Graduate students typically 
apply for jobs as TAs as part of 
the financial aid package and 
are awarded positions based on 
ability in the field, not their 
teaching abilities. Training 
needs to be well-rounded, includ­
ing both mastery of the material 
and teaching skills.
Language requirements 
should be enforced with greater 
vigor; students still grapple with 
TAs with low proficiency levels
in English.
Undergraduate TAs experi­
ence a different recruitment and 
training process. Most 
undergradute TAs must meet 
simple requirements such as 
successful completion of the 
course they are applying to TA. 
Departments soliciting the help 
of TAs should ensure that these 
students not only understand 
the material to be covered, but 
also an extended knowledge of 
the material and the context of 
the course within the program 
of study.
This does not necessarily mean 
that the student with the high­
est grade will make the best TA 
— those with an appropriate 
level of knowledge and teaching 
skills are optimal.
TAs should also be in constant 
contact with the professor of the 
course — in fact, they should be 
required to attend the lecture 
regularly. They should also keep 
up with the assigned readings.
Many CMU departments de­
pend upon TAs to faciliate suc­
cessful classroom settings. If the 
TA is not able to fill the role as a 
lliason between the professor 
and students, then the recita­
tion is a waste of time for stu­
dents and a waste of the 
department’s money. Efforts 
made in the late ’80s are no 
longer sufficient standards for 
TA application and training. 
New standards need to be set to 
keep the program up to par.
/\liboujh I,four new 'TÂ-, has a -fi, w Commun. acx+Vons
diM-icolt-1'es , I'm Sorg. hè. don -tzadJr\ you ujhö-+-
y oo r\e.eA +d ow
James Mojonnler/Tartan Junior Staff
Letters to the Editor
Urnc/ e/parn 
,c/v/fa nr/d—
Letter to 
the Editor
Dear Editor:
For years now, the 
personage of Princess 
Diana formed the re­
lief against which the 
incompetence of 
American media representatives played 
out. Given the job of protecting public 
rights, they have been inept at respect­
ing the rights of others, if not outright 
malicious in discarding those rights.
The media immolated Princess Diana, 
it appears from the first reports, in a 
stalk-and-feed frenzy that now permits 
us a death dance of horror and guilt that 
evokes comparison to Yoko Ono’s film, 
Rape, in its hypocrisy and audacity.
Some years ago, alledgedly protesting 
the invasion of their private lives by fans 
and media scavengers, John Lennon and
Yoko Ono demonstrated, as plainly as 
Nixon did during Watergate, the danger 
of elevating those of a moral-relativist 
nature to positions of power and influ­
ence. John and Yoko, their generation’s 
Romeo and Juliet, hired two camera­
men to follow an otherwise common girl. 
Refusing to stop, they drove their victim 
into breakdown.
The callousness and remorselessness 
with which this was done Was supposed 
to make us reflect upon what they expe­
rience as pop idols and perhaps feel 
what Ayn Rand might have called, “a 
satisfying pang of pity.”
Unfortunately, the film causes only 
contempt and nausea, and one pities 
only their victim, who is convicted of 
some monstrous crime, without the ben­
efit of a trial, and is beheaded by the 
King and Queen of Never Never Land.
The media’s contribution and the vir­
tual assassination of Princess Diana 
remains equally devoid. Were the media 
in the business of setting an example to
follow, their ritual articles of impeach­
ment might more often cite facts, name 
sources, and follow the rules of proce­
dure that permit independence of 
thought, without resorting to base in­
trusions that whip up a mob sentiment, 
or prurient exposures that often have 
laughingly little credibility.
Unfortunately, again the interest of 
the media is built seemingly upon the 
public’s need for a self-image based 
upon the false witness about itself 
that depicts American people as ut­
terly moral and innocent spectators in 
a land of liberty.
Princess Diana catered to this need for 
simplicity, decorum, and perfection, and 
served her sacrificial purpose as nobly 
in death as in life.
One almost hears her sad spirit from 
its point of departure in Paris, France, 
“Et tu, Yoko?”
James Crary
Carnegie Mellon Alumnus
'UM o/e!a apAAcecrvd Gdpnrvd /E/d—I /AAreda eo/aa »p/ocdI
eopadrm aE/er
When freshmen arrive at CMU, 
they are told that it is not neces­
sary to buy a personal computer 
because ample clusters exists on 
campus.
Yet on any given day, most 
clusters have waiting lines that 
extend into hallways—students 
have trouble finding open com­
puters since classes consume 
most of the cluster space on cam­
pus during the week.
Trying to get homework done 
on campus during the day can 
be fruitless. The larger clus­
ters, in Hunt Library and in 
Baker Hall are generally occu­
pied from 9 am to 5 pm. While 
the Baker Hall cluster is pri­
marily reserved for computing 
services workshop classes, the 
token free space is never free. 
Both the Wean and Cyert clus­
ters are packed for most of the 
day as well.
If you are lucky to snare some 
time on a computer, then chances 
are it’s in one of the smaller 
spaces on campus or a residence 
hall cluster, which usually has 
outdated software programs.
While there are less classes 
held in clusters in the evening 
and computer use is less re­
stricted, clusters are still twice 
as crowded as they would be if 
space was available during the 
day.
Some classes that are held in 
clusters do not require the use of 
computers forteachingpurposes, 
such as the introductory English 
classes. These classes can be 
taught in a classroom just eas­
ily, but instead they tie up com­
puters for several hours during 
the day.
When class is in session, stu­
dents are typically not permit­
ted into the cluster, although 
many classes do not occupy all 
of the computers in the cluster. 
Perhaps if the extra machines 
were opened up for general use 
the fight for space would ease 
up.
Posted reservation listings add 
to the frustration of trying to 
find an open computer during 
the day. The packed grids with 
small text are difficult to read. 
Students are better off inter­
rupting the class to see if it’s 
open, rather than trying to deci­
pher the often inaccurate sched­
ules. Better notification of class 
space reservations will help both 
the students searching for com­
puters and professors who would 
rather not be interrupted while 
teaching.
Students that use machines 
during the day to play games 
and browse the web also tie up 
computer space. While there are 
policies in order that are in­
tended to regulate proper com­
puter use, they are rarely en­
forced. Much computer time is 
spent on email — computing 
services should create dedicated 
email stations meant for short­
term use to alleviate the prob­
lem.
As students run around cam­
pus in search of free computers, 
the University needs to rethink 
its promise that all incoming 
students will have access to un­
limited cluster space.
Editor’s Notebook
We’ve all been there. It’s a 9 am class, 
and you’re lucky you’ve made it there on 
time. The professor, who has been up for 
three hours and is as spry as the morn­
ing traffic, wants answers—he wants to 
have a thought-provoking and intelli­
gent group discussion about the topics 
we all read about the night before. And 
what happens? We all sit there, unwill­
ing to answer, despite the fact that we 
know exactly what to say.
I’m talking about the phenomenon we 
all experience nearly every day— the 
useless or dead class discussion. Nobody 
is willing to answer questions. No one is 
willing to risk the embarrassment of 
standing out. No one is willing to risk 
being wrong. Well, I’ve got news for you, 
reader. This is crap and is unacceptable 
behavior in the higher education class­
room. Such behavior inhibits our growth 
as individuals and as specialists in our 
fields as well as the growth of others 
around us. Class discussions are in-
tended to achieve a multitude of goals, 
all of which are unattainable if students 
refuse to participate. Such discussions 
enable us to see situations in a new light 
or from a different perspective. They 
also teach us to support our arguments 
with relevant evidence or anecdotes, 
many times on the spot — a skill which 
can carry over into our writing and pre­
sentation skills. Such discussions also 
help allow us to gain an interdiscipli­
nary education. Many classes are made 
up of students from different academic 
backgrounds, and their varied experi­
ences in their individual colleges bring 
further diversity to the class discussion.
When students — all students in the 
class — fail to participate, these goals 
become elusive and difficult to achieve. 
Furthermore, students tend to blame 
the professors for the poor quality of 
these types of classes, when in actuality 
it is the students’ own fault that nothing 
was learned.
Regrettably, this problem self-com­
pounds as well. Those who are afraid to 
risk answering questions and defending 
their viewpoints affect not only the con­
fidence of those who are willing to par­
ticipate, but they affect the mood of the
conversation. Willing students who are 
enthusiastic about participating may feel 
that their opinion is unwelcome, or that 
they are forcing their views or dominat­
ing the discussion when others do not 
participate.
Additionally, the direction of the dis­
cussion is necessarily skewed when stu­
dents refuse to participate. By default, 
the conversation is terminally incom­
plete and suboptimal, as everyone’s views 
are not present, and a less diverse con­
clusion may be reached.
We are all intelligent and talented 
individuals. We all have strong and valid 
opinions that form instantly when we 
are stimulated by discussion. A profes­
sor should not have toassignaportionof 
our grade to participation to get us to 
open up in class. We are as responsible 
as the professor for the completeness of 
our education and of our peers’ educa­
tions. Take the risk and speak your 
mind. You’ll be thankful that you did.
Kenneth Kraemer is a Fifth-Year 
Scholar in the industrial management 
department and a Contributing Editor 
for The Tartan. He is just now discover­
ing the merits ofsaltines.
SOPrmvCrvd Eopsa em/e!a OA eOmmpEdcOv
' lampeJames Stepanek
I’m going to go out on a 
limb here and assume you 
folks haven’t heard about 
Mike Espy being indicted 
by a federal court. Of
course, I could probably also assume you don’t even know who 
Mike Espy actually is, and be correct for a few of you. Mike 
Espy is the former Secretary of Agriculture from the Clinton 
Administration. He resigned a couple of years ago when 
charges that he accepted illegal gifts began to surface. That 
full load of flotsam has now reached the surface, and it has 
begun to stink for Mr. Espy.
What did he do? Well, you see, when you are a government 
official in charge of something, you simply can’t accept gifts 
from companies you regulate.
In. fact, there’s a law which is specific to the Secretary of 
Agriculture on this one (Meat Inspection Act of 1907). Good 
old Mr. Espy didn’t quite grasp this when he accepted gifts 
from Quaker Oats, Diamond Sim Growers, and other compa­
nies covered under the Department of Agriculture’s purview. 
It all amounted to about $35,000 worth of gifts to Espy, his 
brother, and his girlfriend.
Now there are those among you who will simply say: “Big
deal, $35K, that’s chump change in Washington.” I suppose in 
some ways this is correct. However, it’s a damn sight more 
money than I make in a year right now, and it is also well 
above the average income of the U.S. citizen. Maybe the fact 
that our government can waste millions in an instant leaves 
us jaded to this amount of money, but would you like to have
“Well, you see, when you are a 
government official in charge of 
something, you simply can't ac­
cept gifts from companies you 
regulate. ”
$35K in hand right now? Don’t lie and say you wouldn’t.
Of course, there are also those who would complain that the 
investigation has been expensive ($9 million according to The 
Washington Post), especially when compared to the money
Please see ESPY, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

i—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTbK
A PERSON’S
OPINION
THE TARTAN
'/mvrscr UOooOvFa Gdpnrvd grRaE/Erm 
Gcver VT."
Editor-in-chief.................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Acting Managing Editor.. Ena Khan 
Business Manager.....Amit Sheth
Acting News Editor.... Paul Boothe
Forum Editor........................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor..........Chris Cannon
Features Editor...Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors ... Kiera 
Westphal, IVIatt Tragresser
Art Editor.......................Julee White
Photo Editor.............Anthony Chao
Production Manager..Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager. Stephen Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager........Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling
Asst. Features Editor.....Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor............Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor......... Mark Adato
Asst. Production Mgr...........William
Holtz
Darkroom Mgr.......................Lisette
Miller-Dixon 
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Miolla, 
Jason Siegendorf
Senior Staff Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelitz, Susan Watson
Staffwriters Max Chittister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Rebecca Fribush, Rhonda Gillespie, Elizabeth Irvine, Carrie Jones-McGuire, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex Lewin, Tom Lin, Simona Lo, Greg Marcks, Maureen McGranaghan, Trevor Meyerowitz, Danielle Pierratti, Nia Rodgers, Dan Rosenberg, Jaya Saxena, Betty Shea, Scott Shell, Reena Singhal, Nathan Steinwald, James Stepanek, Meena Vagnier, Andrew Wang, Anthony Yu, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Neii Babra, Tom Birdsey, Ian Downey, 
Anthony Yu, Tony Yu
ComicsAkira Hasegawa, Hiromi Hasegaawa, Dave Newell, Jack­son Tam, David White, Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh, James Mojonnier
PhotoBrian Smith
Darkroom Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Cristomo, Elias Fallon, Maria Gimenez, Daniel Klein, Samuel Listopad, Paul Moore, Diana Rutherford
Production Tammy Manski, Diana Rutherford
CopyDavid Elman, Elayne Foster, Dianne Gigler, Maria Gimenez, Heather Keith, Helena McGahagan, Mat­thew McHenry, Andrew Thomp­son, Joanne Wei
Business Kevin Tsu-Hao Fine, Michael Y Kan, Toshi Takano, Na Y Lee, Norman Mok
Junior Staff Douglas Beeferman, Steve Bldwa, Brendan Bosworth, David Bazelon, James Carney, Nicholas Casciato, Vineet Chander, Susie Cribbs, Connie Dieghan, Cormac Eubanks, Jonathan Fantazier, Rhonda Gillespie, Derek Greentree, Harold Hunt, Will Isenhour, John Lee, Maria Manautou, James Mojonnier, Jeff Thibert, Joshua Walstrom, Daniel Wu, Tony Yu, Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published bystudents during the fall and sprini semesters, at no cost to members By the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright© 1997 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All rightsreserved. Library“ of æIIjI ------ t: 0890-Congress ISSN #: 0890- 3107. The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.
Columnists debate celeb-obsessed media
Clinton adminstration involves corruption
ESPY, from page 4
involved. I have two points with 
which to address this:
A) Mr. Espy actively tried to 
;cover up the incidents, which 
didn’t exactly make it an easy 
investigation. The companies in­
volved certainly didn’t help ei­
ther (and some of their execu­
tives are headed for the slammer 
.as a result). There was a lot of 
obfuscation which had to be dug 
through, and this is not cheap. 
Even government lawyers aren’t 
economical, and this job took a 
good-sized team of them.
B)It doesn’t matter in the slight­
est how much it cost. What do I 
mean by this? Well, let me give 
you an example which clarifies 
my point. Say I mug your grand­
mother and take $20 from her 
(all she has on her at the time). 
Do you give a damn if it costs 
$20K to send me to the slammer, 
or do you figure Granny’s 20 
bucks aren’t really worth the 
state’s money?
This is merely another in the 
multitude of criminal aspects of 
the Clinton Administration. This 
is the administration which 
claimed that it would be the most 
ethical, and yet has been possibly
the most corrupt.
We have Webster Hubbell, the 
former official Justice Depart­
ment official who was convicted 
of having bilked his clients out of 
money when he was a lawyer.
He promised to cooperate with 
prosecutors investigating 
Whitewater, clammed up, and 
somehow managed to bring in a 
bunch of lucrative law jobs from 
people beholden to the Clintons. 
Hmm, that couldn’t have been 
hush money now, could it?
How about the late Commerce 
Secretary Ron Brown, who was 
only spared a full investigation of
some shady activities because his 
plane dove into a mountain in 
Bosnia? The FBI files issue in 
which more than 900 files, which 
were supposed to be confiden­
tial documents, were being ille­
gally handled by the Clinton’s 
political hacks?
The travel office firings, in 
which the director of the travel 
office was prosecuted on trumped- 
up charges (and exonerated by a 
jury) to make a space for some 
Clinton associates who wished to 
make money running the office? 
These are just a few of the scan­
dals off the top of my head.
The evidence of the true depth 
of corruption of this administra­
tion continues to mount. It is only 
a matter of time before things 
truly break loose.
Granted, I continue to be 
amazed at the talent that this 
administration displays in the 
area of damage control, but I do 
have some faith that you can only 
plug so many cracks before the 
wall comes tumbling down.
James Stepanek is a PhD can­
didate in material science engi­
neering. He welcomes all respon­
sible replies to his column.
Rhys Coiro
Freshman
Drama
“... BET cuz they got dope 
videos — actually they kinda 
suck. Then at night it’s the 
fishing show. They run [the] 
gamut — redneck by night 
and BET by day.”
Kim Martin 
Sophomore 
Math
“My favorite cable channel is 
TNT ... because they show 
country line dancing, they show 
Dukes of Hazzard back-to-back
— two hours of Dukes!”
Tom Lianza 
Freshman
Logic and Computation
“It would have to be Comedy 
Central because it’s more 
entertaining than the other 
channels — it’s good to laugh.”
With Housing now subsidiz­
ing our procrastination 
habits, we thought we’d ask 
y*all: What’s your favorite 
cable channel?
Compiled by Brooke Goldner and 
Anthony Chao.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
John Miller 
Freshman
Industrial Management
“... TNT so I can watch pro 
wrestling — oooh yes!”
lpyoce para Crnc/ /a ae/ErsO/d
Sharmila Venkatsubban
I woke up at five am last Saturday to 
watch Princess Diana’s funeral, which 
took place at Westminster Abbey. As 
the procession made its way through 
London and the nation lined the streets 
and bridges to throw white flower petals 
in her honor, I thought of Diana’s wed­
ding 16 years ago. The former kinder­
garten teacher from Norfolk married 
Charles, the Prince of Wales, in Saint 
Paul’s Cathedral in an equally tele­
vised ceremony.
But her marriage and death were not 
the only events in her life that caught 
the attention of the media; her rocky 
marriage and separation from the Royal 
family made headlines until her un­
timely death.
Just another case of celebrity-mania 
on the part of press? I’ve seen the news 
clips of local vendors who have re­
moved tabloids from their shelves and 
I’ve read the many criticisms of the 
exploitive media who stopped at noth­
ing this time to get a glimpse of 
everyone’s favorite royalty.
Princess Diana’s life was made into a 
media spectacle, but not without rea­
son. Her humanitarian and humanistic 
style was uncharacteristic for a member 
of the royal family. Although she was 
married at age 18 into a world of un­
questioned tradition, she followed her 
values and ideals — Diana emerged as 
the most popular royal figure, even after 
she lost her title.
Being a princess wasn’t a storybook 
fairy tale for her. Through her husband’s 
infidelity, the lack of companionship 
she suffered, her bouts with eating dis­
orders, and the birth of her children, she 
stood firm as a figure of elegance and 
compassion.
The media’s portrayal of her life was 
more than just Diana-the-fashion-icon 
or Diana-the-best-looking-member-of- 
the-royal-family. Her rejection of the 
British monarch’s protocol in an attempt 
to protect her idealized values of love 
and marriage is something people should 
know. Although her marriage into roy­
alty did raise her to celebrity status, 
with all the benefits of life in the lime­
light, she worked to add some normalcy 
to her children’s lives.
Her humanitarian efforts made an 
impact; she actively supported many 
charities related to homelessness and 
deprived children, drug abuse, and AIDS
victims. In 1987 she shocked many people 
when she shook the hand of an AIDS 
patient. She was the vice-president of the 
British Red Cross and served as a member 
of the International Red Cross advisory 
board since 1994.
No other member of the royal family 
tried to reach the lives of so many people
Rebecca Fribush
Something is seriously wrong when a 
swarm of photographers pursue a car 
through the highways of Paris with the
and put their position to charitable use — 
the media’s coverage of her death was well 
deserved. The media’s attraction to Prin­
cess Diana has been left alone for the most 
part until now, when the role of the 
paparazzi in her death has come into ques­
tion. After the shock wears off, the first 
question that comes to mind is why? And 
out of need for a scapegoat, all eyes turn to 
the media. It was the media's obsession to 
sensationalize the lives of celebrities that 
took Diana’s life. The paparazzi sacrificed 
good judgment for a few shots of the Prin­
cess with her new companion. Do these 
editors have any scruples ? Will they stop at 
nothing? Are we as consumers of such 
trashy journalism just as guilty1?
While these questions are valid, I won­
der if it’s appropriate to ask them now, 
when the need to rationalize Diana’s death 
is the main motivating factor. Perhaps if 
their was no photographer hot on the trail 
of her car, we would pay more attention to 
the logistics of the situation. We would 
place blame where it is most needed — 
upon the heads of Diana’s driver with a 1.8 
blood alcohol level, the people directing 
him to take off like a speed demon, and his 
passengers who neglected to take simple 
precautions such as wearing seat-belts.
Sharmila Venkatsubban is the Tartan’s 
Editor-in-Chief. She welcomes all respon­
sible replies to her column.
fervor usually reserved for chasing after 
washed-up ex-football players in white 
Broncos for no reason other than to take 
pictures of the occupants of the car shar­
ing a moment together.
While the paparazzi following Prin­
cess Diana’s car may not have been di­
rectly responsible for her death, those of 
her lover Dodi Fayed and the chauffeur, 
and the severe injury of a bodyguard (the 
chauffeur’s blood alcohol level was dis­
covered to be three times the French 
legal limit for driving while intoxicated), 
their single-minded pursuit of a good 
picture is frightening enough. Witnesses 
to the accident scene said that, even 
after the car crashed, the photographers 
stood and snapped pictures instead of 
trying to help the victims.
Diana’s death should cue both the press 
and the public to take along, hard look at 
just how far their celebrity obsession has 
gone.Yes, of course, the public has a 
right to know; a right whose fulfillment 
is a chief purpose of the press.
And yes, celebrities should expect a 
certain amount of intrusion into their 
lives. They can’t have the public atten­
tion and adoration on which they thrive 
unless they use the press to their advan­
tage. But shots of famous people kissing, 
exercising, and vacationing don’t serve 
any purpose except to show us that they 
look as boring going about their every-
Urnc/ arrCa cvdOxce/drn yI A/Cr
day lives as the rest of us do. Most stories 
about the famous don’t contain any infor­
mation that the wider world is remotely 
better off for knowing.
And when the barrage of questions and 
cameras crosses the line from high-profile 
public events like movie premieres to ce­
lebrities’ private retreats, it goes beyond 
any sane expectation of what fame means.
It’s not worth it to expend enormous 
effort and cause great emotional strain to 
show the world how some random well- 
known person spends their free time. 
Part of good journalism is deciding when 
the public’s right to know overrides con­
cerns such as privacy and when it doesn’t.
Reporters and photographers who think 
that inconsequential blather about what 
celebrities do counts as something the 
people must know at all costs are practic­
ing their profession irresponsibly, to say 
the least. When the press’s dogged pursuit 
of the famous results in death, we’ve gone 
way beyond mere irresponsibilty.
The mainstream media, not just the 
tabloids, are in on the act.
The same news magazine issue that 
devoted half its pages to mourning Diana 
featured an article, complete with picture, 
telling you everything you want to know 
about Chelsea Clinton’s preparations for 
college. Granted, this is nowhere near in 
the same league as motorcycle cavalcades 
trailing a car so closely that it spins out of 
control and crashes trying to escape from 
them. Yet it’s still pretty useless and in­
trusive. Not that the press are the only 
ones who should be blamed.
Do you think photographers would be 
rushing to capture Di’s love trysts, Ma­
donna shopping for baby food or whatever, 
and the antics of various Kennedys if the 
public didn’t run out to buy magazines and 
tabloids with these images splashed on 
the covers?
We encourage the media insanity. It’s 
pathetic how caught up we get in the 
minute lives of people who are just as 
ordinary as we are, except that they act 
well or sing well or, in Diana’s case, simply 
married well.
Is the momentary vicarious pleasure 
that they give us worth the media’s cross­
ing of the boundaries of decency?
Perhaps the same public opinion that 
made Diana a star in the first place and 
clamored for coverage of her every move 
will turn against the constant celebrity 
chase now that it has proven to have 
deadly consequences.
Becca Fribush is a sophomore social his­
tory major. She welcomes any responsible 
replies to her column.

---------------------------------------------------

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE. 
And don’t worry about the time or the distance.
If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T 
One Rate. Free. You’ll also get a free one-year membership to Student 
Advantage®—the largest student discount program ever.
• AT&T One Rate: only 15if. a minute on calls from home—to anybody, 
anytime, anywhere In the U.S.
• Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off 
every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and 
national sponsors—like Kinko’sf Tower Records® and Amtrak?
Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate 
and a Student Advantage membership. FREE.
Call 1-800-8 78- 3 8 72
or visit www.act.com/college/np.html
Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Residential Long Distance customers. © 1997 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

i—r i/md/v “ '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTbbRisk takers and money makers make the plays
Life’s a Sport
By Chris Cannon
It’s somewhat common knowledge that 
minimum wage in the NFL is over 
$200,000. That’s right, even the 53rd 
guy on the roster makes more than the 
President. It’s even more well known 
that professional athletes often “hold­
out” in the pre-season. They hold-out for 
more millions of dollars, to “play” a game 
you or I or another weekend-warrior 
participates in for fun.
But is “play” the right word? “Yes” you 
say? If you take a look at the list of
casualties, um injuries, from the NFL’s 
opening week of “play” you might recon­
sider.
Out for the year: WR Jerry Rice with 
tom anterior cruciate and medial collat­
eral ligaments in his left knee, CB Craig 
Newsome (torn anterior cruciate liga­
ment), and DT Daniel Stubbs torn pa­
tella tendon. Gone for a month or more: 
QB John Friesz, TE Mark Chmura, line­
man Brendan Stai, and LBEric Hill with 
a broken thumb, torn posterior cruciate 
ligament, a broken ankle and another 
broken ankle repectively.
The list of “players” less significantly 
hurt reads like an victim list from 
a suicide bomber: a hamstring, 
broken forearm, broken thumb, 
separated shoulder, bruised ankle, 
four sprained ankles, a broken big 
toe, and a hip pointer. Add Steve 
Young’s latest in a series of career threat­
ening concussions. More on him later.
So when All-World athletes like Bruce 
Smith “play” an entire season with a 
variety of injuries (like he did last year),
win the league’s^ 
defensive 
MVP award, 
and then get 
chastised by the 
media for want­
ing to
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
structure his contract, I get a little an­
noyed. The man paid his dues, give him 
his props.
It’s refreshing to me when these 
talented performers finally get a little 
respect. Such as when the Cincinatti 
Red’s president released Deion Sand­
ers from his baseball contract, even 
though the Reds are still in contention 
for the NL Central pennant. How tal­
ented is Prime Time? He only leads the 
NL in stolen bases and didn’t allow a 
reception against the Steelers. 
Undoubtly he required another corti­
sone shot in his back to play this week. 
Sanders reinjured his back trying 
to make a dazzling interception in 
week one. His legs got taken out 
from under him, his neck bent like 
Gumby’s, and he hit hard on the 
turf. He’ll probably need another 
shot this week.
This is the same person the press 
skeptically labeled the 35-million- 
dollar man two seasons ago when 
he helped the Dallas Cowboys to
their third title in the ’90s. Isn’t he worth 1 
it? Isn’t Bruce Smith worth his $20+ mil- ' 
lion. Isn’t Brett Favre (addicted to pain- ' 
killers, as everybody knows), MarkBrunell • 
(recently partially tore his ACL), and Steve • 
Young worth their big contracts?
Remember he-who-stayed-too-long, A1 1 
Toon? Young risks severe pain, not to; I 
mention permanet damage every Sun-; • 
day. The biggest risk most fans take on ! 
Sundays is having their leg falling asleep ! 
from sitting in the same position too long; i
Once upon a time, in pop warner or '• 
high school, professional athletes could. > 
be content to play the game. But in the ’ 
hard hitting word of big play football,; I 
that’s no longer the case. When you’re:! 
as likely to go out like Joe Theisman as > 
you are to leave like are Joe Montana, * 
you’re not a player, you’re an injury ' 
waiting to happen.
Chris Cannon is a computer science •> 
major / film minor and sports editor of i 
The Tartan. He knows the man who j 
knows the man, man.
Vols fall in polls
Florida and Penn State retained the 
top two spots and Tenessee and Wash­
ington swapped places in the latest USA 
Today/ESPN top 25 college football poll.
Florida (2-0), which used seven 
touchdown passes from Doug Johnson 
in an 82-6 win over Central Michigan, 
captured 25 first-place votes for the 
second straight week and posted 1,437 
points from a panel of 62 Division I-A 
coaches. Penn State opened its season 
with a 34-17 win over Pittsburgh, a 
game that was more lopsided than the 
score would indicate, and remained 
second in the poll with 12 first-place 
votes, one less than a week ago. The 
Nittany Lions are just six points be­
hind Florida, a gap that was 23 points 
a week ago.
Tennessee (2-0) built a huge early lead 
and held on for a 30-24 victory at UCLA 
on Saturday. The close call cost the 
Volunteers a spot in the poll as Wash­
ington, which had no trouble in a 42-20
beating at Brigham Young, moved into 
third. Penn State is first and Florida 
second in the Associated Press media 
poll.
US beats Costa 
Rica in qualifier
The United States continued its run 
for a 1998 World Cup berth from the 
CONCACAF region today with a cru­
cial 1-0 victory over Costa Rica at Civic 
Stadium in Portland, Oregon. The 
game’s only goal was scored in the 
79th minute by Tab Ramos. The play 
started when Preki, who entered as a 
substitute six minutes earlier, beat a 
defender to the baseline and passed to 
Marcelo Balboa. Balboa gave a touch 
pass to the oncoming Ramos, who rock­
eted a 22-yard shot past the outreached 
arms of Costa Rica goalkeeper Erick 
Lonnis.
Ramos was playing in a World Cup 
qualification match for the first time 
since suffering a knee injury in a first- 
round match against Trinidad & To­
bago. With Ramos in the lineup, the 
United States isl4-5-2.
Hingis, Rafter 
wins US Open
Patrick Rafter became the first 
Australian in 24 years to win the 
U.S. Open Tennis Championship 
as he outdueled unseeded Greg 
Rusedski of Britain, 6-3,6-2,4-6,7- 
5, in today's final at the National 
Tennis Center in New York.
On the women’s side, top seed 
Martina Hingis of Switzerland put 
an abrupt end to American Venus 
Williams' Cinderella tournament, 
rolling to a 6-0, 6-4 victory to win 
her third Grand Slam title of the 
year. Hingis won her third grand 
slam title of the year.
Rafter, whose attacking serve 
and volley style is a throwback to 
Australia's glory days two decades 
ago, is the first Aussie to win the 
Open since John Newcombe in 
1973. Rafter, in fact, was the first 
Australian even to make the U.S. 
Open final since Ken Rosewall lost 
to Jimmy Connors of the United 
States in 1974.
Tartans serve up a win
SERVE, from page 10
6-3. Second seed Brown pounded her oppo­
nent 6-1,6-2. Watkins struggled, losing 
her match 6-1, 6-3. Tuxen followed, 
beating the next Grove City player 
6-1, 6-0.
Balch, whom Moss 
said was playing 
out of position last 
year and should do 
better in the singles 
division, dropped her 
match 6-3, 6-2. And 
junior Whitney Brooks 
rounded out the day by 
beating her singles op 
ponent 6-2, 6-1.
Sophomore Fani Pavlova and Brooks 
also played a doubles match, beating 
their Grove City opponents 6-1,6-2.
Matches in Lancaster this week 
and then againstNazareth and 
Rochester next week, will help the 
players gearing up for the “big one”
— The Rolex Tournament.
The tournament will be held at William 
Smith College tiie last week of September.
CIVSU vs. Grove City f *
Singles
Keri Mills6-3,6-3
Elisabeth Brown6-1,6-2
Jillian Watkins1-6,3-6
Karin Tuxen6-1,6-0
Julie Balch3-6,2-6
Whitney Brooks6-2,6-1
Doubles
Mills, Brown 6-4, 6-1
Watkins, Tuxen 6-7, 2-6
Baich, Chiu 6—1, 6—3
Urv mOps— pE UOpvd MvcOv
ROUGH, from page 10
turn into the second half, which 
featured even more pulling, grab­
bing, and tripping than the first.
Less than two minutes into the 
half Beulow was taken down by a 
Mount Union player 40 yards 
away from the Mount Union goal. 
The referee awarded CMU a free 
kick and Rich Barone kicked a 
hard crossing pass to the front of 
the Mount Union goal where 
David Huryk headed the ball di­
rectly into the net past their goalie 
for a 3-0 lead. Only a few min­
utes later Huryk was hurt while 
heading the ball out of the CMU 
penalty box. Although he left with 
an injured left ankle, he returned 
before the end of the game.
Down 3-0 and running out of 
time Mount Union became even 
more desperate. 20 minutes into 
the half Mount Union player Mike 
Holdford received a yellow card 
after he forgot what sport he was 
playing and tackled CMU’s
Beulow. Mount Union’s overzeal- 
ous play caught up to them with 
30 minutes left in the game when 
for the second time in a row, CMU, 
scored off a free kick awarded to 
them in Mount Union territory. 
Hariy Uhrich did the honors this
The win should give the Tar­
tans some confidence for their 
upcoming games. However there 
is still room for the young team to 
improve even more. Most of the 
opportunities created in the of­
fensive end of the field were a
“Less than two minutes into the half 
Buelow was taken down by a Mount 
Union player 40 yards away from the 
Mount Union goal.”
time, deflecting the set shot into the 
goal and giving CMU a 4-0 lead.
The score remained unchanged 
for the rest of the game and CMU 
walked away with their first win 
of the season. Unfortunately in 
the last five minutes of play Ja­
son Beulow picked up a yellow 
card, putting a sour note on what 
was an excellent effort by the 
entire team.
result of the creative play of for­
wards Jason Beulow and Harry 
Uhrich. The midfield, which usu­
ally bears a heavier responsibility 
for this job, held Mount Union 
down defensively, but showed 
little interaction with the for­
wards. Throughout the season this 
should improve, especially if CMU 
wishes to do well in their confer­
ence, which boasts good teams.
i/md/va sweep cross-country meet
SWEEP, from page 10
i outside of his left leg.
“I didn’t even think I’d race 
today, but I did,” said Meyer. His 
; preparation for the race included 
the “special treatment:” a mas- 
; sage from a machine. “It’s this 
j thing that looks like a sand- 
! blaster,” Meyer said.
! “We lost some people, but 
; everyone’s doing what they can 
; to pick up the slack,” senior Josh 
; Donner said. “Kenn’s bouncing 
! back really well. [He ran a] good 
solid race. [Kriechbaum] may race 
in two weeks.” 
j Senior Brian Ingram was with 
; the lead pack at the turnaround 
{ and juniors Rob and Jeff Vitek 
; finished strong. Senior Maliek 
; W ashington cruised in ahead of a 
; four-pack of Tartan runners. “I’m 
! very pleased with his race,” said 
[ Meckley. Top freshman Zach 
{ Nugin finished in 27:40.
“We have what looks like the 
makings of a solid team,” said
Donner, who rallied the lead pack 
of CMU runners to the finish. 
“[Wei might even get back to na­
tionals.” Donner, Oldham, and 
sophomore Eric Egenolf appeared 
to wait for junior Kelan Wieloch at 
the tail end of the course: a big 
loop around Flagstaff hill. In grati­
tude, Wieloch passed them at the
finish, although the official re­
sults appeared inconsistent with 
this development. The men and 
women agreed that the course 
was not good for racing.
“It’s a slow course,” junior Mar­
garet Powers said. ‘You wear the 
uniforms, get all ready to go,” but 
you don’treally race, said Buchheit.
Men 5.1 Miles
Maliek Washington26:33
Josh Danner26:56
Eric Egenolf26:57
Kelan Wieloch26:58
Kenn Oldhan26:58
omen 3.1Miles
Maureen McGranaghan19:42
Margaret Powers19:43 v -
Rebecca Buchheit19:43
Melissa Lott19:43
Andrea Byrnes19:45
Craig Soules/Tartan Systems Manager
U l s i U K c IIO M M I V I I V
HELPING YOU BUILD A SECURE FINANCIAL 
FUTURE IS AN IMPORTANT JOB. 
FORTUNATELY, WE HAVE THE PERFECT RESUME.
W
ith nearly 80 years of leadership experience 
in our field, TIAA-CREF is eminently 
qualified to help you build a comfortable, woriy- 
free retirement.
Our references are equally impeccable — 
today, nearly two million of the best minds in 
America trust us with their financial future. 
Allow us to review our qualifications.
Superior strength
With over $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CREF is 
the world’s largest retirement organization — 
and among the most solid. T1AA is one of only 
a handful of companies to have earned top rat­
ings for financial strength, and CREF is one of 
Wall Street’s largest investors.'
Solid, long-term performance
We seek out long-term opportunities that other 
companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. 
Though past performance can’t guarantee 
future results, this patient philosophy has 
proven extremely rewarding.
Surprisingly low expenses
TIAA-CREF’s operating costs are among the
lowest in the insurance and mutual fund 
industries. Therefore, more of your money 
goes where it should —towards ensuring 
your future."
Easy diversification
We otter a wide variety of expert^' managed 
investment options to help build your assets. 
With stock, bond, money market, and real 
estate accounts — as well as a guaranteed 
annuity to choose from — TIAA-CREF makes 
diversification easy.
Unrivaled service
We believe that our service distinguishes us 
from every other retirement company. In the 
latest Dalbar Consumer Satisfaction Survey, 
a study of 2,000 financial companies, TIAA- 
CREF was voted the leading provider of 
retirement plans.
If you work in education, research, or relat­
ed fields, why not pur TIAA-CREF’s experi­
ence to work for you? To find out more, visit 
our Web sire at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us 
at 1-800-8-Í2-2776.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
Service»; AAA. Standard and Poor* lor >ubiliiv. Miund imrilmrnK claitm-paving ability. and m in imurance company do not apply lo CRKK 1Sliiinilnl <•' P.kr',- luiiniiur foilni/i Aiulttf. 19%: I Jpper Analytical Srrvicf*. Inc.. Ij/'jvrlXm t complete information, including charge» and ecpeniel. call I -800-842-2733. etlrniion 5509, Inr CRKK anil TIAA Real Kttale procpevlu««. Iteail liter. II or »end money. TIAA-CREK Individual anti Inititutional Service». Inc. diitribute» CRKK certificate» and the variable component ol TIAA contrail».

---------------------------------------------------

Volume9 2,9 IsCCmamrmnm9C
' *¦ - ¿Æ:
-Op (rmr LoR/Ia ?r/nIiO JpCE WvB
TECHNICAL CAREER FAIR: 
SEPTEMBER 25,1997 
INFORMATION SESSION: 
OCTOBER 14,1997 
INTERVIEW SESSIONS: 
OCTOBER 15 & 16,1997
Even from the very beginning, 
you were ready for anything and 
everything. Now, you are bigger.
And so are your dreams. There is a 
company that can’t wait to widen 
the unique perspective you bring.
The future starts with you. It always 
has. And it is everything you can imagine 
with the company that is developing and 
delivering the worlds new communications, 
entertainment and information technologies: 
global wireless solutions, ISDN, full-service 
interactive broadband networking, digital 
TV, programming-on-demand and far 
beyond. All this from a company you 
think you probably already know. But 
did you know this?...
“A lot of people say ‘What can my 
company do for me?’ and at Bell Atlantic, 
they’re really serious about nurturing your 
career growth — through challenging 
assignments, comprehensive training, 
100% tuition assistance, and lots of 
coaching and mentoring from senior 
employees. If a graduating senior with an 
IS degree were to ask me for advice.
I’d say stan your career with a company 
like Bell Atlantic that allows you to learn 
new skills and enhance your current 
ability— particularly since IS is such a 
changing industry.”
— Mardiff Fountaine,
Morgan State University, '95
“At Bell Atlantic, teamwork is really 
important. Everyone does his or her part 
to support one another, and there’s 
always someone there to answer my 
questions. The thinking is, the more you 
ask, the better it is for the team.”
—Alexa Kurilko, College of William & Mary, '96
“I’ve had many opportunities to discuss 
both simple and complex issues with 
people from many departments in both 
one-on-one settings and in team 
environments—even with company Vice 
Presidents. It was great to see that a new 
college hire could feel at ease to air his 
views freely to senior executives.”
—Gautam Advani, Georgia Tech, '95 
Like these present employees, at 
Bell Atlantic, it is your curiosity and 
vivid ideas that will determine how far 
you go, especially if you are a talented 
graduate in Computer Science,
Engineering, Telecommunications, MIS or 
Decision Sciences.
We’re racing toward the future, with 
excellent opportunities in:
• Client/Server Systems
• Object-Oriented Design 
and Languages
• Open Systems Architecture
• Advanced Software Engineering Tools
You are prepared to shape the future. 
Now, you’ve found the company and the 
tools. For information about immediate 
opportunities please send your current 
resume to: Bell Atlantic, Information 
Systems Human Resources, 13100 
Columbia Pike, B-2-7, Silver Spring, 
MD 20904. Or e-mail: 
isstaffing.entry@bell-atl.com
Our ability to attract and retain top 
technical talent is the driving force behind 
our high-performance teams. We offer 
competitive salaries, and our benefits 
package is in the “Top 10” in the country, 
according to Money Magazine. These 
opportunities are offered by Bell Atlantic 
Network Services, Inc.— Information 
Systems.
Bell Atlantic is an Affirmative 
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit our Home Page on ¡he Internet at http://wmv.bell-atl.com/
THE HEARJ OF COMMUNICATION®
General Smitty says:
GET INVOLVED!
The Tartan has been 
CMU’s student-run news­
paper for over 90 years, 
and it’s recruitment time! 
Interested?
Recruitment Meeting
Tuesday, September 9 
5 pm — Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136A) 
Come eat free pizza and find out how to 
get in on the action!
Whatever you enjoy doing, chances are The Tartan has a position for you. News, Forum, Sports, Features, Diversions, 
Art, Photo, Darkroom, Production, Systems, Advertising, Business, and more. Email pb3S for more info.

---------------------------------------------------

i—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTbT
ADMINISTRATION
Director: Mike Mastroianni X8-2214; As­
sistant Director: Mike Grzywinski x8-2214; 
Intramural President: Jeff Jesensky x2- 
2830; Women’s President: Katie Gallagher 
ix2-3363
IMPORTANT DATES
Monday, September 8 — Mandatory Foot­
ball rules meeting 4:30 pm Small Gym.
Tuesday, September 9 — Football games 
begin, Co-Rec Volleyball and Tennis sched­
ules available at noon.
Wednesday, September 10 — Tennis and 
Co-Rec Volleyball games begin.
Thursday, September 11—Water Polo and 
Chess rosters due.
Sunday, September 14 — Triathalon. 
Tuesday, September 16 — IM board meet- 
ng 11:30 am Gym Conference room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Games start Tuesday, September 9. The 
*ames will be played Monday through Thurs­
day evenings as well as Sunday afternoon. 
Teams are reminded games are called at 
the field so plan on playing at scheduled 
time. Teams are also reminded that games 
on turf will be played even if grass games are 
rained out.
The following minors games will be 
played on Tuesday, September 9.
6:30 pm Reid C, Beta vs. KSA Unlimited 
.Miles
Reid D, SAE Chad Roll vs. Jordan’s Team 
7:30 pm Field C, Delt Scrubs vs. TSA Mo’s 
Cuttery
Field D, Brickhouse vs. Nads 
8:30 pm Field A, Zoo vs. Green Bay 
Schlaggers 
Field B, Sex-E’s vs. P Clams 
9:30 pm Reid A, PKT Tijuana' vs. Meat 
¡Packers 
Reid B, PIKA C vs. Big Nutz
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Games will be played in the UC on Monday 
through Thursday evenings with games be­
ginning at 6:30 pm and running through 
10:30. The first day of games will be Wednes- 
¡day, September 10. Schedules can be picked 
jup Tuesday afternoon.
Matches will be played on the UC courts 
¡on Monday to Thursday evenings. The 
‘¡courts are reserved from 7 pm for matches. 
¡Schedules can be picked up on Tuesday, 
¡September 9 with matches beginning the 
¡following night. If courts are unplayable 
¡due to rain, please notify the IM office 
immediately. Please be prompt in using 
¡the courts so that later matches may get 
started on time.
SPORTS UPCOMING 
WATER POLO
Rosters are due September 11 in the IM 
office. All games will be played in the UC pool. 
¡Rules are available at the IM office.
CHESS
Rosters are due September 11 in the IM 
office. Teams consist of three to seven players 
and each match is a best of three singles game. 
Each player may only play in one singles game 
per match.
The Intramural Department is looking for 
football officials. Any interested person is en­
couraged to contact Mike Mastroianni at x8- 
2214. Experience is not needed, just an inter­
est in sports.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI 
Edited by 
CHRIS CANNON
Gridiron guru grades collegiate greats
Gridiron Grapevine
By Carey Lefkowitz
A new college football season 
is here, and for the umpteenth 
year in a row, the NCAA and the 
Bowl Alliance will fail to do what 
it has set out to do for the last 
umpteen years: crown an undis­
puted national champion. We 
still have one more year until 
the Rose Bowl joins the Bowl 
Alliance, and with no playoff 
system in sight, this year could 
be a real bummer when it comes 
to determining the best of the 
best. Penn State could go unde­
feated.
It looks like the winner of the 
Tennessee/Florida game on Sep­
tember 20 could go undefeated. 
The same could be said about 
the Nebraska/W ashington game 
on the exact same day.
All of these undefeated teams 
ensure fans of college football a 
mess on New Year’s Day with 
too many undefeated teams 
playing each other, or, even 
worse, two undefeated teams not 
playing each other because of 
Bowl Alliance restrictions.
But maybe I’m jumping the 
gun. How often do four teams go 
undefeated in one season? Very
rarely. So, with an optimistic 
view on college football for now, 
here’s a little spin on what 
should go down this season.
Penn State will go unde­
feated. The two tests in the Big 
Ten, Ohio State and Michigan, 
are games that will be played 
at home for the Nittany Lions. 
This is a big plus considering 
that these schools are notori­
ous for screwing with the oth­
ers’ national championship 
hopes by knocking each other 
off late in the season (See last 
year, Michigan over Ohio 
State, 10-9, saving us from 
the national champion­
ship debacle I described 
above).
Penn State will rely on 
its high-powered of­
fense, led by 
tailback Curtis 
Enis, whose 
breakaway 
speed and sheer 
power can defeat 
a defense single- 
h a n d e d 1 y .
There is a new 
starting quar­
terback, Mike 
McQueary, but there is 
no reason to believe that 
his inexperience as a starter 
will slow this team down, espe­
cially with the experience of his 
primary target, wideout Joe 
Jurevicius. After their win 
against Pittsburgh this past 
weekend, Joe Patemo is ten wins 
shy of 300. He’ll get that 300th
win, it’s only a question of 
whether it’ll be that final regu­
lar season game, or in the Rose 
Bowl. Bet on that win in the 
final regular season game, and 
then bet on his 301st win in the 
Rose Bowl.
Neither Tennessee or Florida
Tony Yu/Tartan Art Staff 
will go undefeated. I think I’m 
nuts when I say that Tennessee 
will knock off Florida in the 
Swamp in Gainesville, but I’m 
not nuts when I say that Ten­
nessee will let itself down by 
losing later in the year, ending a
sure national championship run. 
Peyton Manning is the bomb, 
hand him the Heisman. If he 
looks as impressive over the sea­
son as he has against his first 
two opponents, who weren’t 
rollovers (Texas Tech and 
UCLA), he will be on the po­
dium of the Downtown Athletic 
Club in December with that tro­
phy in his hands. He has so 
much experience with his of­
fense, and he 
has already 
graduated so he 
can focus on 
football 100 per­
cent of the time. 
He came back to 
school for the 
sole purpose of 
winning the 
championship. 
Sorry 
Peyton, 
but your 
defense 
and 
your 
coach­
ing staff 
doesn’t 
have what it 
takes to go un­
defeated. Ten­
nessee nips 
Florida on September 20, but 
gets upset by Alabama four 
weeks later. Sorry Peyton.
The winner of the Nebraska/ 
Washington game will go unde­
feated. Being from Nebraska, I 
will not predict the outcome of
this game (yet), but this is each 
school’s biggest test of the year 
by far. Nebraska’s stable of 
tailbacks is once again the best 
in the nation. Quarterback 
Scott Frost, who struggled in 
the key games, has a year un­
der his belt, and both of the 
lines have been training both 
in the weight room and at the 
steak house. Colorado will be 
Nebraska’s only test after this 
game, and the Huskers own 
the Buffaloes number, espe­
cially as of late. As for Wash­
ington, people who thought 
the pollsters were nuts put­
ting the Huskies fourth in the 
nation are giving those boys 
from Seattle a little credit af­
ter they knocked around BYU 
this weekend. The Huskies 
have a young quarterback 
named Brock Huard, and this 
team is fast, both on offense 
and especially in the second­
ary. The Nebraska/Washing­
ton game will be a tremendous 
battle. Give it to Washington, 
but I’ll be rooting for Nebraska.
So, despite the messy bowl 
situations, I think everything 
will be just spiffy. Penn State 
and Washington battle it out in 
the Rose Bowl for the undis­
puted national championship, 
and Joe Paterno gets the big 
win in Pasadena.
Carey Lefkowitz is a sopho­
more industrial management 
major who is ready for some 
football, dammit.
i/md/va dpCyor cv 
POoorIy/oo dOpmvrI
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
In what coach Julia Webb 
called a “huge disappoint­
ment,” the Carnegie Mellon 
women’s volleyball team 
placed last in a tournament 
held this weekend at Marietta 
College, losing all four 
matches that they played in 
the two-day event.
The women started out the 
event on Friday losing to host 
Marietta in three straight: 
15-4, 15-3, 15-2. Marietta 
was a very tough competitor 
the year before, according to 
Coach Julia Webb.
The team seemed to rally 
against Wilmington, forcing 
that match to four sets before 
losing the last one 15-10. 
Webb said that it was by far 
their best showing of the day. 
The Tartans averaged 20 digs 
per match and had 40 team 
kills. Wilmington finished the 
tourney in the top four.
But the offense stopped on 
Saturday. They started the 
day losing to Wooster 15-9, 
15-9,15-6. The total number 
of digs for that entire match 
was 15.
In their final attempt of the 
weekend, CMU faced Ohio 
Valley, taking two sets 15-9 
and 15-6, but losing three 
sets 11-15,12-15 and 12-15.
Before the women’s volley­
ball team left for Marietta 
this weekend, Webb had ex­
pressed concern over the loss 
of sophomore Steph Szobota
to an ankle injury. The shuf­
fling around to fill her va­
cancy on the court created 
some confusion. “It really hint 
us,” said Webb.
Freshmen Jeri Goede, who 
played in Szobota’s place, per­
formed admirably; but Webb 
said that the outside hitters 
were just not putting the ball 
away. “The blocking was good, 
but not for a lot of points.”
“For the most part, we kept 
the ball on the other side of 
the net, but the defense was 
horrendous,” she said, refer­
ring to the Wooster match’s 
low dig numbers.
“We played really well some­
times, but we didn’t have it 
together all the time,” said 
sophomore outside hitter 
Ashley Kinsey. “We are still 
growing and learning.”
“This weekend we had 
trouble passing, but blocking 
and setting outside, we did all 
of those things fairly well. I 
think that we’re going to get 
back to basics next week at 
practice,” she continued.
A home court advantage 
may help the 0-4 Tartans as 
they host Hiram and Wash­
ington and Jefferson, who 
placed third at the Marietta 
tournament, this coming Sat­
urday in the old gym.
“We have no place to go but 
up,” said Webb.
CMU plays at home Satur­
day hosting Hiram at 11 am 
and Washington and Jefferson 
at 3 pm.
'UM aC/a—ra ,rvcaOv dr/C
YARDS
SMASH, from page 10
defense look like Swiss cheese. 
Mark up another touchdown for 
the Tartans, by way off a 4-yard 
run by Campie.
The last two touchdowns 
came 
within 40 
seconds 
of each 
other as 
RB Will 
Spurgeon 
ran the ball in 
from the 10- 
yard line, only 
to see the cherry 
put on the ice 
cream 40 seconds 
later with an inter- 
ception and 40- 
yard return by DB 
Matt Morris. After 
the flurry of late 
touchdowns, the 
score was an aston­
ishing 32-7.
Superman 
Campie finished the 
game with 169 all 
purpose yards as he accounted 
for more than half of the tartan 
offense. Clay and Neupaver 
ended up with 34 and 29 rush­
ing yards, respectively.
Afterwards the praises for 
Campie and Neupaver poured in 
from all over.
“Mike Campie is a football 
player,” praised Coach Lackner. 
“He’s persistent, he’s got great
their team?
“The offensive line picked it 
up and opened a lot of holes 
for the backs,” Campie said, 
“We rose to the
CMU/Denison
-Rushing52-25535-85
-Passing54168
-Total309253
Completions5-10-016-32-1
Fumbles1-11-0
RETURNS
-Punts2-201-2
-Kickoffs2-416-96
Penalties3-243-35
a very 
team ori- 
! n t e d 
group,” 
Neupaver ex­
plains, “The team is 
coming together and ev­
erybody has their own 
role. Everyone is doing 
their part.”
So, yes it’s that time of 
year again. The leaves 
change colors, students re­
gret coming back to school, 
squirrels collect their nuts 
for the winter, and Mike 
Campie continues to run for 
end zones like Forrest 
Gump. Some things never 
change.
hands, great feet... He is a joy to 
watch.”
And what do our friendly foot­
ball superheros have to say about
The Tartans play Case West­
ern Reserve University Satur­
day, September 13 at 7 pm in 
Gesling Stadium.
classified
HOUSING
Apt. for rent. North Oakland, Bigelow 
Blvd. Modern 2 br, 2 bath. Equipped 
kitchen, newly carpeted dining area, LR. 
Private entrance, no pets. $520.00 in­
cludes water and sewage. 821 -2868. Leave 
message.
JOBS
Earn 510-S13/hour. WHEEL DELIVER 
seeks highly upbeat, motivated friendly 
people to deliver food from the area's 
finest restaurants. Experience preferred. 
Extensive knowledge of city's East End is 
essential. Must be available at least four 
nights a week.
Bike Line of South Hills (Bridgeville), 
part of the nation's largest chain of spe­
cialty bicycle stores, is seeking an experi­
enced mechanic/sales person. Employee 
discounts available. Call Gerry at 412- 
220-0335 to apply.
Excellent extra income now. Envelope
stuffing. $600-5800 every week. Free de­
tails: SASE to International Inc. 1375 Coney 
Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230.
Wanted. Student needed to do filing, 
office organization, light office cleaning, 
and minor secretarial tasks. Basic computer 
skills desirable. Home near CMU campus. 
Will pay 510 hour, approximately 6 hours 
per week. Please call Dr. Paul Paris at 578- 
3204.
Baby-sitter/light housekeeper. 2:00pm - 
6:30pm Mon.-Friday. One 12 year old girl. 
Regent square area. Must have reliable car. 
Evening 244-9299.
PERSONALS
Happy 21 st Chris. Have an awesome day. 
Love your little sis.
Travel Spring Break '98. Sell trips, earn 
cash, & go free.. Student Travel Services is 
now hiring campus reps. Lowest rates to 
Jamaica, Mexico & Florida. Call 800-648- 
4849.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.......$12.00/wk
51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THETARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

»PORTS KICKOFF
Tom Birdsey/Tartan Junior Staff and Kevin Babbitt/Tartan Production ManagerTartans use late scores for big win
By RYAN E. WILLHITE
Tartan Junior Staffwi'iter
Uh-oh. It’s that time of year again. 
This is the time of year when: the leaves 
start to change colors, students start 
heading back to school, squirrels collect 
their nuts for the winter, and RB Mike 
Campie runs for end zones like Forrest 
Gump. Some things never change.
Last Saturday, the Carnegie Mellon 
football team managed a 32-7 win over 
Denison University. The Tartans were 
led by super sophomores Campie and 
QB Russ Clay on offense, while LB Josh 
Stauffer (eight tackles) and DB Chris 
Martinez (seven tackles) led a balanced 
defensive attack.
The game started off slowly as the 
Tartans made mistakes that are charac­
teristic of early season games. “We are 
not going to be as sharp as we will be by 
the fourth game,” coach Rich Lackner 
said. That statement definitely was true 
as CMU was called for three penalties, 
sacked once, and fumbled in the first 
quarter. The game had all the mistakes 
of a pop warner game.
However, during the Tartans’ third 
offensive series the complexion of the 
game started to change. The Tartans 
showed their strength and experience, 
as the offensive line treated the 
Denison defensive line like a bunch of 
rag-dolls. The exceptional play by the 
offensive line helped Campie and Clay 
combine for 66 yards on the drive, 
capped off by a 6-yard touchdown run 
by RB Chris Neupaver.
Denison stood up to the powerful 
Tartans by scoring on their very next 
drive. Denison QB Keith Schmid 
showed poise and confidence as he con­
verted two third down plays with com­
plete passes, the second of which put 
Denison on the Tartans’ 2-yard line. 
RB Dan Hayes completed the drive 
with a touchdown run of his own and 
the score was tied at seven.
It was at this point in the game that
Both photos by Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Left: Mike Campie falls forward for the extra yard. Campie finished 
with 169 all-purpose yards. Top: Will Spurgeon bursts through the line 
in CMU’s 32-7 win over Denison Saturday afternoon.
Campie decided to put on his superman 
suit and defend Carnegie Mellon against 
the evil Denison. During the next series 
Campie had 32 all-purpose yards, lead­
ing the Tartans to the Denison 13-yard
simply performed the best play of the 
day as he: dodged out of traffic, ran 12 
yards, perhaps wrote his dissertation 
thesis on Nuclear Physics, and scored 
the touchdown that put CMU ahead for
"The offensive line picked it up and opened a 
lot of holes for the backs."
— Mike Campie 
sophomore starting running back
line. QB Russ Clay the decided that it good at 13-7.
was his turn to fight the evil Denison. He The second half was a great half of 
dropped back to pass on 3rd and 11, and defensive football for the Tartans. With 
was immediately surrounded by a sea of the offense coming out of half-time slow, 
Denison players. Clay, not one to panic, CMU’s defense provided the spark to
ignite the fire. The unit held Denison 
scoreless in the second half, coming 
up big on crucial 3rd and 4th downs. 
“Our defense played really well,” 
said Coach Lackner, “They blocked 
a field goal and had a couple of 4th 
down stops ... one of them coming on 
a sack.”
Once again, on the third offensive 
series of the half, Mike Campie was 
hungry. After being forced to punt on 
the first two possessions, CMU 
wanted the offensive unit to reassert 
themselves. But, this time Super­
man brought his pal Batman (a.k.a. 
RB Chris Neupaver) with him. To­
gether they combined for 64 all-pur- 
pose yards, as they made the Denison 
Please see SMASH, page 9
CMU nets 
a tennis win
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The women’s tennis team started 
their season last Thursday by beat­
ing Grove City College 6-3 in a 9- 
point match. The Tartans took four 
singles matches and won two of their 
three doubles matches, with top seed 
and two-time All-American Keri Mills 
cruising to wins in both events. Win­
ning the entire match was a bit of 
revenge for last year’s beginning-of- 
the-year loss to Grove City.
Mills’ doubles partner, second- 
seeded freshman Elisabeth Brown, 
was pleased with her first collegiate 
victory. “Tennis is my only outlet of 
the day,” said Brown, who was a 
ranked junior player in Philadelphia. 
Coach Peter Moss called her a “good 
addition to the team.”
The team lost no seniors last year 
and gained several freshmen, two of 
whom, Brown and Jessica Chiu, are 
ranked in the top eight.
The doubles matches were played 
first and set important momentum 
for the day. Mills and Brown took the 
first match, winning in straight sets 
6-4, 6-1. Junior Jillian Watkins, a 
three year veteran, and her partner, 
junior Karin Tuxen, lost a close match 
in the next game 7-6, 6-2. It was the 
first time that the two had played 
together. Tuxen did not play last sea­
son.
But the third-seeded doubles part­
ners, junior Julie Balch and Chiu, 
came back from a first set pounding 
of 0-6 to win the next two sets 6-1 
and 6-3. Moss credited their amaz­
ing comeback as providing a spark 
for the singles matches that fol­
lowed.
Mills took the first singles match 6-3, 
Please see SERVE, page 7
ir/Ca Opdmpv d—r eOCErdcdcOv
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
“[With] those down-hills, it’s 
really easy to damage yourself,” 
Rebecca Buchheit said of the 
course through Schenley Park. 
“Those girls from Duquesne got 
hurt because they wore spikes.” 
CMU’s cross-country teams
ner Maureen McGranaghan.
The race was a group finish, 
with CMU’s five lead runners 
all finishing the 3.1 mile course 
in about 19:42. The UAA and 
national championships will 
both be held at Franklin Park 
in Boston.
The good start bodes well for 
the team, which competes in a
“[With] those down-hills, it’s really 
easy to damage yourself. ”
— graduate student Rebecca Buchheit
The regional meet, the qualify­
ing meet between UAAs and na­
tionals, will take place at 
Dickinson. The teams are famil­
iar with that course as well.
“We only run it three or four 
times a year,” said junior Mel­
issa Lott.
Sophomore Amy Antoci used a 
strong kick to grab sixth place in 
the meet.
“We definitely have more depth 
this season than the past,” said 
McGranaghan. Lott returns to 
the team after spending last year 
in Germany. Bucheit is a gradu­
ate student.
“We could be pretty tough this
both started off on the right tough conference. In the UAA, year,” said coach Dario Donatelli, 
foot with a perfect score of 15. Washington U. has reloaded with who kept sophomore Melissa 
The course also features rocks young talent and Chicago has a Sloan and top freshman Katie 
and lots of asphalt. new coach and a top freshman in Janes out of the meet. “[They]
“I personally favor the non- the conference. “The competition just needed another week [of 
hilly courses,” said junior run- is really stiff,” said McGranaghan. training],” said Donatelli. He ex­
pects them to both be among the 
top six runners on the team.
The men’s side has been slightly 
hampered as well, but had an 
equally impressive meet. Head 
coach Gary Meckley identified 
sophomore Bryan Meyer andjun- 
iors Kristo Kriechbaum and Kenn 
Oldham as runners the team 
needs to rely on.
“In order for us to get back to 
the nationals, we need to get these 
three people back,” said Meckley.
• Both juniors are nursing knee ' 
injuries, while Meyer is being 
treated for IT-band syndrome,
_. , . . . . .. whicll affects the nerve on theThe women’s cross-country team started in a pack Saturday at Flagstaff
Hill. They also finished in a pack, taking the top six places at the meet. Please see SWEEP, page 7
Men beat Mount Union
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Mount Union bowed down to CMU 4-0 Saturday night.
The Tartans took their momen- 
Please see ROUGH, page 7
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday the men’s soccer 
team took to the field for then- 
second game of the season and 
earned a decisive 4-0 win 
against non-division opponent 
Mount Union College. Carnegie 
Mellon’s men’s team came to the 
game hungry following their 
opening game 1-0 overtime loss.
During the opening moments 
of the game Mount Union tried 
to apply pressure to the young 
Carnegie Mellon team. In the 
15th minute it almost paid off 
for Mount Union when their 
freshman forward Robert
Stolner got the ball in an open 
position on the right side of CMU’s 
goal. CMU’s defense quickly re­
covered however, and forced 
Stolner to shoot the ball wide.
Shortly following that oppor­
tunity, CMU settled into the game 
and only four minutes aftér 
Mount Union’s chance, the Tar­
tans scored. Senior J ason Buelow 
carried the ball down the left 
sideline and passed the ball of to 
Harry Uhrich. Uhrich carried the 
ball across the front of the Mount 
Union penalty box looking for 
space to shoot. When he finally 
did take a shot it was blocked by 
a Mount Union defender to David 
Zupon who was 25 yards out on
the right side. Zupon crossed the 
ball back to the left to Jason 
Buelow. Buelow was open due to 
the over-pursuit of the ball by 
Mount Unions defense, and 
needed only to play a soft touch 
shot past the exposed Mount 
Union goalie.
With a 1-0 lead for CMU the 
game turned physical. Both sides 
engaged in extracurricular ac­
tivities while trying to get the 
ball, and at one point a shoving 
match broke out at midfield. No 
cards were given out by the ref­
eree. CMU continued to pres­
sure Mount Union as forwards 
Buelow and Uhrich created 
space and opportunity in front of 
the Mount Union goal for CMU.
With 15 minutes left in the 
half CMU scored again. Junior 
midfielder Rich Barone took a 
hard shot from the right side of 
the field, blowing past the Mount 
Union goalie into the upper right 
hand corner of the net. Follow­
ing the goal, Uhrich and the 
Mount Union goalie expressed 
their respect for each other by 
throwing the ball at each oth­
ers’ heads and pushing each 
other. The game’s referee did 
not understand their good in­
tentions and gave both of them 
yellow cards.
CMU continued to dominate 
the half, allowing Mount Union 
only one good scoring chance 
with six minutes left in the half.

---------------------------------------------------

All art this page by Cormac Eubanks/Tartan Junior Staff
i iHbiVi)zW'— co n e r 'v cdmP 'LIVIDO
Tß
j~ Volume 92, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania8 September 1997
ELNy DBRWLRhe 
yB ynt ECyCRt
GC/md '/mn mrPOopdcOvcZra nmcPcvs
By SHEILA FLANAGAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Picture yourself cruising 
down the freeway on a sunny 
Friday afternoon with all of the 
windows rolled down and your 
favorite song playing on the 
radio. Suddenly, you hear a 
funny noise coming from 
your car. So much for 
the carefree afternoon 
you were planning to 
spend at the beach, 
right? You’ll have to 
spend the whole rest of 
the day sitting inside a 
greasy garage listening
to elevator music while _____
a mechanic tries to fig- 
ure out what’s wrong with your 
car. Well, maybe not.
What if you could just push a 
button inside your car which 
makes a wireless call to your 
mechanic? The mechanic then 
remotely checks the systems in 
the car to see the problem and
perform some basic operations 
in order to repair the break­
down. What if you could then 
continue driving because your 
car had already been repaired?
Thanks to the technology of 
the “smart card,” which is being 
designed and developed by stu­
dents at CMU for Daimler Benz,
The card is being designed 
through a project called JAMES 
(Java Architecture for Mobile 
Extended Service) under the 
direction of Bernd Bruegge, a 
senior systems scientist in the 
School of Computer Science.
This is one of the first projects 
of the recently formed Global
“We are ... relying on technology to make our 
life easier.... If people are used to credit 
cards, they are going to love smart cards.”
— Alfonso Guerrero Galan, 
master’s student in Software Engineering
the possibility may not be too 
far into the future.
The “smart card” contains a 
Java-programmed chip that al­
lows for a variety of service op­
tions for the owner of a car when 
the chip is inserted into the card- 
reader of the vehicle.
Field Consortium, which con­
sists of Daimler Benz, CMU, 
Sun Microsystems, IBM, Si­
emens, PictureTel, Silicon 
Graphics, and Deutsche 
Telecom. For this project, 
Bruegge is enlisting the help of 
students enrolled in this fall’s
Software Engineering 15-413, 
a course designed to give stu­
dents experience in applying 
techniques learned in previous 
computer science courses to 
large programs such as the 
“smart card.”
“[The students will] learn the 
process of developing a complex 
software system in the 
context of a real prob­
lem posed by a real cli­
ent,” said Bruegge.
When the card has 
been developed, 
Daimler Benz plans to 
deliver a smart card 
with every Mercedes 
Benz M-Class car sold.
The card will be intro­
duced this year in Belgium and 
subsequently distributed in 
other European countries.
In addition to keeping a 
maintenance record for the car, 
the card has the potential to 
store information such as the 
owner’s preferred positions of
the 
mirrors 
and seats, 
desired in­
side tempera­
ture, and favorite 
radio stations. The 
card may also be able 
to make business travel 
less of a hassle.
For example, if a driver is 
traveling to an unfamiliar city 
to meet clients, she could uti­
lize the card to view a map and 
directions. By taking the time 
to download the necessary in­
formation onto the card before 
she leaves, the driver can save 
the time it would take on the 
trip to constantly stop and ask 
for directions.
During the semester, the stu­
dents will work in teams of 
seven and will be guided by
Teaching 
Assistants 
(TAs) who will 
act as coaches for 
the teams.
According to Alfonso 
Guerrero Galan, a master’s 
student in Software Engineer­
ing and a TA for the class, the 
Please see CARD, page L3
iroraeOEr Errma cvdO E/ad s/o/xcra
By REENA SINGHAL
Tartan Staffwriter
A sky without stars and a world with­
out galaxies.
Even though this is hard to imagine, the 
Viper Telescope will soon begin viewing 
the world under those conditions as it 
starts a four-year study at the South Pole.
Over the past four years, CMU stu­
dents and scientists have built the Vi­
per, which will study the very early 
universe from the Martin A. Pomerantz 
Observatory at the South Pole starting 
this January.
The Viper has the power to study 
cosmic microwave background sig­
nals which will help scientists piece 
together the evolution of astronomi­
cal bodies such as stars, planets, 
and galaxies from the ionized gases 
of the early universe.
“We look back in time by looking 
through this telescope,” 
said Jeff Peterson, an
associate professor in the Physics De­
partment and the head of the Viper 
project. The microwave telescope has been 
developed to look for small differences in 
brightness among the entire sky.
These brighter regions come from 
spaces that were denser than aver­
age more than 300,000 years ago.
“The only thing that existed then 
were huge clouds of ionized gas,
to spread out at the same pace it has 
been or if it will slow down.
The minimal amount of water va­
por and low winds has made the 
South Pole an apt location for the 
Viper and for obtaining the most 
accurate results.
“It is the driest desert on Earth, so 
there is little interference by water 
vapor with the measurements,”
“A crew of 28 members will live at the South 
Pole in complete darkness for six months of 
winter... with almost no contact from the 
outside world except email.”
which we can see with this telescope,” 
said Peterson.
The Viper was completed in collabora­
tion with scientists from Princeton Uni­
versity, Northwestern University, Uni­
versity of Chicago, Cal-Tech, and Yerkes 
Observatory. It is sponsored by the Cen­
ter for Astrophysical Research in Ant­
arctica, which is funded by the National 
Science Foundation.
The telescope can also aid scientists 
in their study of clusters of galaxies 
and the center of. our own galaxy. By 
calculating the distance of the pri­
mordial clouds, the scientists 
may gain insight on the ex­
pansion of the universe and 
if it is going to continue
Peterson said. The researchers will 
also be able to collect their best data 
during the six months of dry winter 
because the telescope has been devel­
oped to withstand the climatic condi­
tions of the South Pole, where tem­
peratures can drop to 100 degrees 
below zero during the winter months.
“Students tested [the telescope] in a 
chamber they built to simulate Ant­
arctic conditions using dry ice and 
liquid nitrogen,” said Peterson. Its 
mirrors and structures are all built 
from the same aluminum alloy so that 
the overall alignment of the telescope’s 
components will be maintained when 
the metal shrinks from the extreme 
Please see VIPER, page L3
?OPrm rxEoOmra Eo/vrda
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
It’s the year 2030, and all ofyour friends 
have told you what a great experience it is, 
so you decide to explore Mars, too. Instead 
of taking along a map, you can take along 
Nomad, a planetary explorer which has 
been developed and built at CMU.
During this past June and July, the 
NASA-funded robot Nomad traveled 400 
kilometers across the South American 
Atacama Desert to test planetary explora­
tion technologies. For 40 days, CMU sci­
entists as well as others observed Nomad 
to prove that it was reliable and accurate 
in its navigation. In essence, one of the 
primary functions of Nomad is the ability 
to aid an actual explorer.
The desert was chosen for the robot to 
explore because of the Atacama’s rocky 
terrain landscape, which is similar to 
the surfaces of Mars and the Moon. The 
actual robot weighs approximately 1,600 
pounds and is the size of a small, com­
pact automobile. It features four-wheel 
drive and four-wheel steering so that it 
can easily take on the rocks and craters 
of the Atacama. The robot is also 
equipped with aluminum wheels so that 
it can tread through soft sand. In addi­
tion, Nomad uses special sensors and 
computers so that it senses obstacles 
without the assistance of humans.
“This project is important from a re: 
search perspective in that NASA is fund­
ing new technologies that will aid in the 
exploration of space and possibly on 
earth. Such high-level goals as the search 
for life and the history of the planets are 
all a part of the exploration of space,” 
said Benjamin Shamah, a master’s stu- 
dentin Robotics. Shamah manufactured 
the lead that was used in constructing 
the locomotion components of Nomad.
“I was interested in getting involved 
with the project because it enabled me 
to build a rover that could aid in the 
development of a planetary explorer. It 
seemed to be an exciting part of the 
project,” he said.
“This project has impacted the CMU 
community because, from the manufac­
turing perspective, Nomad returned the 
concept of in-house manufacturing to 
CMU. Most projects are designed here, 
however, parts are constructed and as­
sembled by other businesses. For this 
project, almost all of the custom parts 
were built and assembled at CMU. This 
allows the team to have a greater control 
over quality and to have an in-depth 
knowledge of its working system,” 
Shamah said.
“We are still deciphering all of the data 
gathered from the experiment that will 
be shared with the research commu­
nity. We are still working to conquer 
the reliability issue so that rovers can 
. be built to work for long duration 
without human intervention,” 
Shamah said.

---------------------------------------------------

kui—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTb
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
(L to R) Greg Blank, a Junior ECE major, Nana Quaynor, a junior psychology major, and Chris Cormier, a sophomore architecture major, cheer on the Tartans.
ON CAMPUS
CMU female faculty explore diversiCollege Briefs
English Server offers worldwide services
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
As of late, CMU’s English depart­
ment has received more press for its 
computing resources than the famed 
School of Computer Science. That may 
sound a bit unusual, but if you looked 
at the English server, http:I / 
www.eng.hss.cmu.edu /, you 
would understand why there’s 
been so much talk. The server 
hosted 22 million readers last 
year, and published more than 
18,000 works of literature and 
research. Most recently, the 
server was hailed at the top of 
the Arts and Humanities cat­
egory of Netscape’s “What’s 
Cool” guide.
The site’s newest addition is a call- 
for-papers database that can be reached 
from around the globe. Launched in 
August, this database has features that
allow users to search for opportunities 
to submit their research, or other works, 
like journals, anthologies, and book 
chapters. The database not only 
searches in the traditional English dis­
ciplines, like fiction and poetry, but in 
art, history, media studies, and the­
ater, to name a few. Out of 200 current
entries at the site, you can search by 
date or by subject.
“[The call for papers] is a page that has 
a search engine where you can put your 
own paper on-line,” said Terri Palmer, a
PhD student in rhetoric and co­
webmaster of the server. “It’s set up to 
act as a bit of a clearing house for calls- 
for-papers. It’s also nice because it’s con­
stantly updated with email addresses 
and new links.”
Most of the users who visit the site 
are from within the department itself.
The server con­
tains material that 
ranges from an ex­
tensive collection of 
18th century texts, 
to information for 
specific CMU 
classes, and even a 
recipe section. In 
addition, two CMU 
literary journals 
are contained on the site: The Oakland 
Review, and Sudden, a student-run 
poetry journal.
The server has gained an interna­
tional reputation and an increase in
outside patronage such as mail from 
national servers like America Online 
and Web-TV.
“We’ve been getting more and more 
calls sent to us, which is a pretty good 
index,” said Palmer. “It seems that in 
the short time we’ve been up that we’ve 
gotten some fame.... We’ve been get­
ting a few bits of fan mail.... When I’ve 
gone to conferences, people recognize 
our name just because of our server. 
People will come up to me and will 
know more about a collection [on the 
site] than I will.”
Palmer’s job is not just to know every­
thing about the server’s extensive col­
lections. As co-webmaster, she is re­
sponsible for adding links, setting up 
pages, and writing script. She and the 
other web master, Geoffrey Sauer, main­
tain the boundaries on the collections so 
they don’t become unmanageable. They 
also keep the listings for the new data­
base up-to-date.
"When I've gone to conferences, 
people recognize our name just be­
cause of our server. ”
— Terri Palmer 
PhD student in Rhetoric
What did you do on your summer 
vacation? If you’re a design major, the 
department invites you to an open 
session of discussion sponsored by the 
Student Design Forum entitled “What 
I did on my summer vacation....”
The program will take place on 
Thursday, September 11. Design 
majors are encouraged to share in­
formation about internships or any­
thing interesting they did over the 
summer. Anyone interested should 
email April Starr (asap@andrew) 
with the location of employment and 
a brief description of responsibili­
ties, activities, etc.
Simon Penny, associate professor 
of Art and Robotics, has a research 
opening for one or more mechanical 
engineering students, for either 
credit or pay.
The project involves the construc­
tion of a “large bipedal static walker 
robotic artwork, about 10 feet high.” 
Tasks include resolving mechanical 
design offeet, legs, pelvis, and coun­
terweight system, conducting re­
search, and designing and building 
a pneumatic muscle system.
Anyone wishing to have his or her 
resume or cover letter critiqued be­
fore the Business Opportunities 
Conference can speak to Les Engle, 
CMU alumnus and former senior 
vice-president or Parsons Corpora­
tion. He will be providing a volun­
teer service at the Career Center 
every Tuesday and Thursday be­
tween 10:30 am and 2:30 pm. Call 
x8-2064 to reserve a time slot.
The English Department is ac­
cepting applications for a continu­
ing education workshop called “Ad­
vanced Web Site Design.” It begins 
on September 23, and will run from 
4 to 7 on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
It will have a basic web design over­
view and a more in-depth section on 
advanced techniques, such as incor­
porating image mapping and Java 
scripting. Anyone wishing to regis­
ter should send email to Danny 
Josephs (djosephs@andrew) or call 
at x8-3089. Tuition for the work­
shop is $500 and includes six ses­
sions over three weeks, totaling 18 
hours of instruction.
The Departments of Biology at 
CMU and at the University of Pitts­
burgh are hosting a seminar called 
“Molecular Motors Regulating Mi­
crotubule Polymerization.” The 
speaker is Dr. William Saunders, of 
the University of Pittsburgh’s Bio­
logical Sciences Department. It will 
take place on Wednesday, Septem­
ber 10 at 3:30 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Conference Room.
Astro Teller, a PhD student in 
artifical intelligence, recently pub­
lished his first novel, Exegesis, and 
the School of Computer Science is 
hosting a book signing party on Fri­
day, September 12 in the Alumni 
Lounge, from 4 pm to 6 pm.
There will also be a seminar 
series called the Computer Sys­
tems Seminar Series beginning 
on Wednesday, September 10. It 
will take place in the D-level con­
ference room in Hamerschlag 
Hall from 12:30 pm to 1:30 pm. 
Lunch is provided, and students 
are invited to give presentations. 
Anyone interested should email 
ccs-admin@ece. cmu.edu.
Authors profile 'journeys’ in science and engineering
Journeys ofWOMEN
cv Gecrver /vn 
1vscvrrmcvs
No Universal Constants
courtesy of Temple University Press 
Journeys is the biography of 88 women in science.
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Acting Managing Editor
“To show people how many diverse 
paths there are in engineering and 
science.”
That’s how Barbara Lazarus, the as­
sociate provost for academic projects, 
characterizes Journeys of Women in 
Engineering and Science: No Universal 
Constants, a new book she co-authored 
with four other members of CMU’s fac­
ulty. Profiling 88 women engineers and 
scientists, Journeys attempts to provide 
role models for those entering non-tra- 
ditional careers. “Something that says, 
look, everybody’s doing it,” said Lazarus.
“I found myself unable to put [the book] 
down. It was fascinating,” said Elizabeth 
Jones, a professor of Biological Science 
at CMU, who was profiled in the book.
Susan Ambrose, an adjunct professor 
in History, and Indira Nair, associate 
department head in Engineering and
Public Policy, worked with Lazarus in 
writing and editing the book. Indepen­
dent scholar Kristin L. Dunke and 
Deborah A. Harkus, a research associ­
ate in the Women in Engineering pro­
gram at the University of Washington, 
were also co-authors. Ambrose said, “We 
make a fantastic team. We compliment 
each other.”
Women profiled in the book include 
breast cancer activist and surgeon Su­
san Love, recent U.S. Surgeon General 
Jocelyn Elders, Air Force Secretary 
Sheila Widnall, and Nobel Prize-win­
ning physicist Rosalyn Yalow.
“Jocelyn Elders has a wonderful line 
about being fired by Clinton,” said 
Lazarus. “She’s just such a gutsy lady.”
Famous women, however, do not make 
up the majority of the profiles. “We de­
bated the importance of fame.... We have 
women in the book that have won Nobel 
prizes and women in the book that 
haven’t. What they have in common is 
that they love their work,” said Lazarus.
“I was interested in the non-famous 
women who’s lives are so extraordinary,” 
said Ambrose.
All of the women meet Lazarus’s defi­
nition of success. “I define success as 
doing work that you care about and you 
feel makes a contribution,” said Lazarus.
Women were selected for the book 
after thousands 
of profiles were 
reviewed by the 
authors. 
Women were se­
lected from dif­
ferent careers, 
ethnic back­
grounds, reli­
gions, marital 
status, eco­
nomic status, and lifestyle choices. A 
handful of the women selected are fac­
ulty or alumnae of CMU.
“When I came into science, there 
weren’t many women in science, and it 
was lonely. It would be nice if there were 
more there,” said Jones.
“The reality is people are forever ask­
ing me how I got into science. This was
a good way to docu­
ment it,” said Sue 
McNeil, professorin 
the Department of 
Civil Engineering 
and Environmental 
Engineering, who 
was also high­
lighted in the book.
The authors used 
first person to write 
the biographies. “In 
writing [the pro­
files] we wanted to 
capture not only 
their stories but 
also their voice,” 
said Ambrose.
For Lazarus, the 
book was the result 
of years of work 
with women in Asia.
“I’ve been fasci­
nated for a longtime 
in non-traditional 
occupations,” said 
Lazarus. Engineer­
ing and science are 
not fields that 
Lazarus has 
worked in, but she 
was inspired by the 
women in such pro­
grams at CMU to 
work on the book.
“When you come to Carnegie Mellon 
you have to be struck by how few women 
are studying in engineering and sci­
ence,” said Lazarus.
“Women can do science the way men 
can do science,” said Jones. Vivian 
Loftness, department head in the School 
of Architecture, who was also featured 
in the book, said, “This should have a
great impact on girls deciding on under­
graduate and graduate studies.”
The book is already being used in 
classrooms. At CMU, Eric Grotzinger, 
associate dean of undergraduate affairs 
and Mellon College of Science, is refer­
ring to the book in his freshmen seminar 
course. A professor at Georgia Institute 
of Technology will be using the book as 
the class text. -*•
“/ was interested in the non-fa- 
mous women whose lives are so 
extraordinary.”
—Susan Ambrose 
adjunct professor of History

---------------------------------------------------

Check out our website at www.philippelusi.com
i—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTb k2
T V L
STUDENT HAIRCUTS 
STARTIIG AT*18.95“
TaartnSaf INCLUDE:
CONSULTATION-SHAMPOOING 
CONDITIONING. VOLUMETRIC® HAIRCUT 
BLOW DRY & STYLE 
STYLING LESSON
Visit Our 
New 
South Side 
Location!
"-(Philip '—conenrv
Ho* ora Pw»9 cy ftiip Pilusi ' Inunaioaal Geucn lem
a»
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 • Century III Mall 655-1940 
Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 • Robinson Town Centre 788-0204 
Oxford Centre 261-6550 • South Hills Village Mall 833-6770 
Ross Park Mall 366-1555 • Monroeville Mall 372-7520 
South Side 488-6618w tielwVy SFely’sF1w1iyT swsy1'wSU F1iView.
Play an interactive game, download a screen saver, read an excerpt, and meet Astro at http://www.randomhouse.com/vintage/exegesis
YG adpnrvda nrProOE e/ma OA d—r Apdpmr
Professional project enhances learning experienceFREE PIZZA!
Gecrvdcada adpnI r/moI ROmona
VIPER, from page LI
cold at the Pole.
Peterson began building 
the telescope at Princeton 
University and finished it at 
CMU after he began working 
here. The telescope is expected 
to be the most sensitive to cosmic 
microwave background radiation 
out of all the existing telescopes 
currently maintained at the Pole.
Students have worked on the 
project with Peterson through 
summer research positions and 
independent studies, even travel­
ing to Antarctica for a semester to 
make observations with telescopes 
that have already been placed at 
the observatory, including Python, 
an older telescope from CMU.
They have also designed the soft­
ware and engineered the ^Vipertele- 
scope. Dale Morgan, a senior me­
chanical engineering and physics 
double major, and Chris Cantalupo, 
a sophomore physics major, will 
head down to the Pole with a group 
of students at the end of October to 
prepare Viper for the study. “It’s 
very much a student-run project,” 
said Peterson, who will join the 
students at the Pole at the end of 
the semester.
A crew of 28 members will live at 
the South Pole in complete dark­
ness for six months of winter to 
continue with research and to main­
tain the telescope. The crew, which 
includes two members from the Vi­
per project, will live with almost no 
contact from the outside world ex­
cept email. The two members of the 
project will have to brush snow off 
the telescope mirrors each day and 
make any repairs or adjustments
? r ?rofD
necessary due to the 
extreme Antarctic 
conditions. The 
other members, 
which include cooks 
and doctors, will help 
make life more com­
fortable for the re­
searchers.
According to 
Peterson, the results 
of the proj ect will not 
be known for at least 
six months, if everything 
goes well. Several views of 
the exact same place in the 
sky must be seen before making 
conclusions on the observations 
because the scientists need to con­
firm that what they are seeing is 
real, he said.
The Viper, which stands 16 feet 
tall and has a mirror which is 14 
feet wide, has a very simple re­
ceiver. “We didn’t want too many 
challenges all at once,” said 
Peterson.
There has already been a pro­
posal to build a telescope that is 
nearly five times as large as the
“The Viper has the power to study 
cosmic microwave background sig­
nals which will help scientists piece 
together the evolution of astronomi­
cal bodies.”
Corniac Eubanks/Tartan Junior Staff
Viper. This larger telescope will 
be a collaborative, worldwide 
project, including Italy and Ger­
many, who have already shown 
interest in the project. It has not 
yet been approved, but in the 
meantime, Peterson has already 
begun work that will contribute 
to the new telescope.
“In upcoming years, we are 
planning even more powerful 
receivers which operate at 
higher frequencies,” he said. 
These receivers will be used first 
with the Viper and also with the 
new telescope.
im/Procvs rCEORrma ROCrv
Fall Into a 
Great Job,
re Fall!
’Back to school time' brings great opportunity at Boston Market!
Full Time or Part Time -There's never been a better time than now!
Now Hiring - Day & Evening Shifts
?Cashiers 4-Kitchen Staff ?Sen/et-e
Enjoy great payrates and a casual, clean environment 
and flexible schedules to meet students' needs!
CRANBERRY NEW KENSINGTON
•20290 Route 19 *201 Tarentum Rd.
PITTSBURGH
MoKnight Rd. *5200 Baum Blvd. »173? Washington Rd. 
•I?3£ McFarland Rd. *5??9 Fofbes Are. •9? Clairton Rd. 
•97? Greentrce Rd.
ALLISON PARK
•4-616 Route £
Apply Daily!!
Equal Opportunity Employer
Cracking the Myth
by Elizabeth Irvine
I remember how afraid other 
people were for me when I left 
Barcelona, my home base while 
I was studying abroad, to travel 
in Spain by myself for a little 
less than a month. My room­
mate, an American girl from 
the University of California at 
Berkeley, was adamant that 
traveling alone was too danger­
ous. I was annoyed that so few 
people had confidence in me, 
that everyone was trying to pro­
tect me. I began to doubt my­
self, to think maybe it was a 
bad idea, that 
maybe I 
should wait 
around for a 
group of 
people who 
wanted to see 
the same 
places as me.
But I didn’t, 
and after be­
ing scolded by my friends — 
male and female, Spanish and 
American, I set off by myself 
into Spain.
As women, we are constantly 
reminded that in many places 
it is not safe or smart to be 
alone. All we need to do is turn 
on the television to see how 
some woman was attacked, 
and another killed, to fear be­
ing alone. This right to be 
alone is something that 
oftentimes men don’t even 
have to think about. I get frus­
trated with people when they 
tell me it’s not safe to go some­
where alone. Obviously being
unsafe is never in anyone’s in­
terest, but there is danger ev­
erywhere and women can’t hold 
themselves back from doing 
things because of it. If I had 
listened to the warnings of oth­
ers I would have missed out on 
so many amazing experiences. 
It is ridiculous that the only 
women who are “safe” enough to 
experience new places are the 
ones with some kind of group or 
male chaperon. And it is even 
more unbelievable that my edu­
cated, “liberal,” female room­
mate would be one of the voices 
to tell me not to even try to 
travel alone.
I know many people who trav­
eled to more exotic locales, but 
for me, Spain was an important 
start. Not only was there a lan­
guage barrier, but I had to think 
about the most primal things, 
like where I was going to sleep 
that night or how I would get
from point A to point B. Naviga­
tion and seemingly mundane 
needs consumed most of my 
thoughts. Also in the back of my 
mind was fear — whenever it 
was getting dark or I was in a 
slightly seedy area, I began to 
be afraid.
With my dorky American 
Eurorail pass and big backpack, 
I took the train to the Pais Vasco, 
Galicia, Castilla y Leon, and fi­
nally Andalusia. I was com­
pletely self-indulgent. Travel­
ing alone affords you the luxury 
of spending two full days in the 
Prado, spending a day reading 
Tales of the Alhambra in a court­
yard in Granada, and people- 
watching in Santiago de 
Compostella. I could eat when 
I was hungry, go to sleep when 
I was tired, and go to bars and 
discotheques by myself — not 
worrying if someone else was 
having a good time.
And just because I started 
out alone didn’t mean that I 
was isolated all the time. In 
fact, I experienced some of the 
most interesting people and 
places while traveling alone. I 
bonded with a British girl and 
shared a hostel room with her 
in Granada. We drank red 
wine and listened to Tracy 
Chapman. She had been trav­
eling alone for three months 
and had also received grief 
about her trip. We talked 
about how it seemed archaic 
that people didn’t want us to 
travel alone.
My going to Spain was about 
self-discov­
ery. To sur­
vive in a for­
eign country 
on my own 
was empow­
ering. If I 
could find 
my way 
around 
Spain, I can 
succeed in a variety of much 
less scary things, like a class or 
ajob. People are surprised when 
I tell them about my travels, 
but always impressed and ex­
cited for me. In a way, traveling 
in Europe is almost cliched for 
college students, but doing it 
alone is a different story. 
Women need to take risks even 
if people are subconciously in­
stilling fear into them. The ex­
perience is well worth the risk.
Elizabeth Irvine is a senior 
BHA major. She recently re­
turned from a semester of 
studying abroad in Spain.
“I began to doubt myself, to think 
maybe it was a bad idea.... [But] af­
ter being scolded by my friends — 
male and female, Spanish and Ameri­
can, I set off by myself into Spain. ”
CARD, from page LI
TAs will act as facilitators for 
the students. “Our responsi­
bility is to give advice in using 
the concepts learned in class, 
to try to guide them in dealing 
with problems they might find, 
basically to help them, but the 
students are responsible for de­
veloping the final product. We 
give the initial guidelines, sup­
port, and provide the tools, but 
they do the actual develop­
ment,” said Galan.
“I knew the class was going to 
be intense, but I had no idea 
we’d be working for a real com­
pany. I guess I expected a made- 
up project, something that came 
out of the professor’s head,” said 
Patrick Toole, a junior , indus­
trial management and computer 
science double major.
“I feel like the CS Depart­
ment has redeemed itself, af­
ter sitting through classes
where the professors run on 
long tangents that don’t make 
sense or have no use,” Toole 
said.
Many of those involved with 
this project believe that the 
smart card may significantly 
change the way people live and 
do business. Because the smart 
card is small and easy to trans­
port, it has the potential to be­
come very popular.
“We are more and more rely­
ing on technology to make our 
life easier. The smart card is 
part of this trend. The good thing 
about the smart card is that it is 
very similar to a credit card. If 
people are used to credit cards, 
they are going to love smart 
cards,” said Galan.
Not only will the smart card 
make life more efficient, but 
it has the capacity to make 
driving more comfortable and 
fun as well.
Join The Tartan
Recruitment Meeting
Tuesday, September 9 
5 pm — Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136A) 
Come eat free pizza 
and find out how to get In on the action!
*With proof of age or valid Student ID
“It will give a whole new mean­
ing to the word ‘joyride,’ ” said 
Tze Bin Loh, a junior electrical 
and computer engineering ma­
jor who is working on the “smart 
card” project.
Others do not foresee a major 
change in people’s lives as a 
result of the smart card.
Nate Woods, a senior electrical 
and computer engineering major 
who is enrolled in the class, be­
lieves that the smart card is merely 
an extra feature in a car.
“I see it as a convenience such 
as cruise control; it is very con­
venient and nice to have, but 
doesn’t change much beyond 
that,” said Woods:
“Of course we can have it drive
the car for us or give us the best 
directions to any location that 
we could want but if we could 
get it to link up to satellites or 
something to help us find a park­
ing spot, now then I’ll be really 
impressed,” said Vincent Mak, 
a senior computer science ma­
jor and student in the class.
Students in the class are ex­
pected to complete their devel­
opment of the smart card by the 
end of the semester and will test 
it in early December.
For more information and 
illustrations of the smart 
card, you can access the 
JAMES Web page at http:/ / 
cascadel.se.cs.cmu.edu/ 
JAMES/.

---------------------------------------------------

I
f you cant stand the heat, git out of the kitchen. 
Besides, too many chefs spoil the stew anyway, and 
everyone knows a watched pot never boils, almost like a 
watched clock never ticks. There’s so much to do, and so 
little time. More things than you could shake a stick at. 
There’s about six of one (or at least one-half dozen of the 
other). After all, it’s better to be safe than sorry. Right?
by Scott Adams
EL&ON IATHE. PHOTOb WERE 
GRAINY, BUT THE 
ADVERTISEMENT 
GUARANTEES THAT 
SHE'S CUTE.
«WJ.J.rTOH,ANP H| 
TartnS tiiooK-rrSj 
fwiiwelV m ApmssepiKm nimmÊmm TO BOTH OF \ WSHH usmimmn
'TO:MICHAELJ. P00NE5BURY IANPHI51RASICumecoom." IJ SOME T 1 77/145/J
( LOOK ' AT ALL THESE! eor.vouKNOUJA LOT OF , peopis! J
I'VE. DECIDED TO END 
fAY LONELINESS BY 
GETTING A fAAIL-ORDER
BRIDE FKOfA j-----------—
ELBONIA. (—
HEY. HERB'S ON5 FROM YOUR. ex....
BLONDE
NO KIPPING! THEPS'S NO I WAY I'M CASHING TT! \
A POISON CHRIST­MAS CARP FROM J.J.- WHAT A LOVELY GESTURE -
BECAUSE THEY'RE SENDING 
HER BY fAAIL. I CO AS N'T 
GJILLING TO PAY FOR 
OVERNIGHT DELIVERY.
fAY ELBONIAN fAAIL-ORDER 
BRIDE COILL ARRIVE ANY
DAY NOCO. "_____________
|WHY DON'T YOU 
KNOU) THE 
EXACT DATE?
SHE'S ONE LUCKY GALINCREPIBL3. A TOTAL .h pis. r*
TTSAYS... "FOR CHOP SUPPORT'/
I'LL PROBABLY 
KEEP HER IN 
THE GARAGE. 
IT HAS A
SINK'.
\YEAH. ANP 1 THEWEIRP THINGWAS H£ CAME ON TO ME-RIGHT ¡N FRONT J I OF HER!) £
IWONPERHXU SHELEARNEP YOUCUERE-UV- IN6 HERE, KIM...
mi,MYEE'TTMSJ.J.UWTHAT'S THEM, WHERE PO ALL RJ6HT... YOUSUP- / POSEJ.J.rvi- GOT THEMONEY FOR THE GULP BWl\ SUPPORT¦IIMr I / yFSyf’
HEY, DALLY. I HEAR 
YOU'RE GETTING AN 
ELBONIAN IAAIL-ORDER 
BRIDE/
r//* 5^ t:TOO V 11-WTTHZEKE ? YOU If I THINK GOTTA FIGURE J TPS GREAT \FRÛM7-EIEVENS.J JMTYOUFE
IT'S SO SAD AND 
PATHETIC , YET 
SO FUNNY/ I 
FEEL SORRY FOR 
HER ALREADY/
LUDICROUS COW- SOY IN TOM? <r
KIM.J.J.UJOULPNTI fAUST KEEP fAY L 
EXPECTATIONS LOU) 
TO AVOID ANY ^ 
DISAPPOINTMENT.)
/AY ELBONIAN v"'V_ 
fAAIL-ORDER BRIDE 
HAS ARRIVED. r-
WHERE'5 THE 
LADIES STY?
I DESPERATELY 
NEED TO 
POIODE.R fAY 
SNOUT. ,--------'
MOMMY JUST CALLED! SHE'S BEEN SELUNG OUTPOOR SCULPTURES TOALL THE BIG COM­PUTER. GUYS IN TOWN!
UKE, FOR HOW MUCH?
*400,000{ATOP/,CUSSING MONEY I WITH... j
... SO fAY ELBONIAN 
r\AIL-ORDER BRIDE 
TURNS OUT TO BE A 
PIG LOITH j
A (0lGj7~~-> oJWAvT A
\l 1 RIP-OFF.
WHYON EARTH SHE SAP SHE WOULPJ.J. WANTEPME PISCUSSHER TOSENPYOU FINANCES WITH AMESGA6E. AN EIGHT-YEAR- xou?? \ (fwm
YOU'RE TAKING THIS 
WELL. I'D BE /AAD 
IF I PAID FOR A 
BRIDE AND THEN I 
HAD TO PAY TO SEND
sv, HER oLhmu
' YOUR MOMtAYS ¡[*400.000 MAKING HOW A A SCULP- MUCH.ALEXy KTURE^.
YOU DID 
SEND HER 
BACK...
NOT ONLY THAT, BUT SHE SAYS SHE HAS A . •ZILLION ORPERS! (f, ,
J YOU MEAN, \GIV5MEA \MES5A6E.)
NO, NO, SHE \ SPECIFICALLY SA!P"SENP.",
YOU CANT IMAGINE HOW SPE- CJAL SHE WAS! SHE UT UP MYUFE, JUSTTRANSFORMEP IT! I WISH I KNEW WHAT PROVE HERAWAY FROMME...
1 BARELY RECOGNIZE HER ANYMORE! J.J. USEP TO BE SO GIVING, SO POSITIVE, SO SUP­PORTIVE OF ME ANP MYPREAMS...
r NOWAY! SHESONLY TRMNGTO REASSERT CONTROL!
YOU KNOW. MIKE, SINCE SHES POING SO WELL, MAYBE YOU SHOULPLET J. J- HELP WITH KQULP SUPPORT,.. I
MAYBE YOU USEP TO PRONE ON ABOUTOTH­ER WOMEN.
HAVE YOU BEEN 
NAPPING? YOU'VE 
GOT A BAD CASE 
OF KEYBOARD 
FACE.
WISH fAELUCK. I'fA 
OFF TO GET fAY 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW.
U) HAT'S
GJRONG
OJITH
YOUR
FACE?
I HAVE. 
QWERTYTIS. 
IT'S FROfA 
WORKING 
TOO HARD.
NO... NO, i l PONT THINKTHAT \ WAS IT... J
jerry tne
Tiauôeouô
worm.
aT rtnSf fwine fwtlV yVtyFV ’VsVs1V’Vr ft 1'U 
.NnrUd WwVU oNRV sV N wNs lNnrpi.wdk 
‘MVNw- fwVU oNRV sV N 1VV’dz
‘Jnr Ut' fwt'owf you pV’V wNRino N 1Nr 
wNi’ rNU\k
‘,wVSl otf NFF fwV K'NFifiVl N .t'yFV th 
l'yV’hi.iNF o'Ul FieV 'l nVVr\z

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 8 September 1997
While the battle continued
The Olympian 
deities observed 
closely from 
above.
I WISH I COULD 
JOIN THEM!
Yes, both 
sides are 
fighting well
Oh, look, 
who's that?
That's Achilles, j 
a son of Goddess 
Thetis and a mor­
tal named Peleus
^ King 
E Agamemnon, 
JKchilles is in the 
W front!!
But why 
isn't he 
wearing 
any armor 
or shield?
It'S
suicidal!
ILIOS Homepage has moved to: http://satan.object-design.co.jp/~hiromi/ 
(It contains all the previous episodes!)
by James Mojonnier
fridaq; A ^iaTgalering.Ml i'm Dirk
Welcome, / 
Via, ha/ f
Missbn statement ha, ha71 
Wdl, uh, I guess...uh... if?
Kind a s°Hra...
acidly, I u;as 
ojcndering lobat- ^éfoop'5 mission C
-s was.../mYc
N)o -problem I This
con cochon Cic aa s
rnaKe you
I'm nrf 
sufe r 
beli eye-
DAP
GôRPLIHKA
'ormer
addresses his neu
§

---------------------------------------------------

dm—P
20,000 sq. ft. 
Showroom
3-Piece 
Cocktail & End Table Set
MEDIUM PIZZA » 
WITH UNLIMITED f 
TOPPINGS
LARGE PIZZA i 
WITH UNLIMITED f 
TOPPINGS I
1 LARGE i 
1-TOPPING I 
PIZZA
2 MEDIUM 
1-TOPPING 
PIZZAS
I SPECIALTY CRUST & DOUBLE f ¦ ! ‘ 
3 TOPPINGS'EXTRA. J | 2
£ Limited Time Offer,? * 4
SPECIALTY CRUST & DOUBLE f 
TOPPINGS EXTRA. J 
Limited Time Offer/i ii».» m uxt tiri »antn} UuUutiivj
SPECIALTY CRUST & DOUBLE | 
TOPPINGS EXTRA. 5 
Limited Time Offer#i in urn tfuca.Tl WA Yi'i wm*Limited Time Offer.r i*«** in wi UjO Macino mWA7 ira MSpd 'k&s
Bedroom, Livingroom & Dinette Furniture Package.
KlIlllllfilyMll'lMIl
as low as $75 /mo.
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT 
as low as $99 /mo.^Étf
i.. i
(ilJIXMiSS
RAMADAPLAZA SL1TFS
(From The Pogues and 
Shane McGowan and the Popes.)
* Celtic Rock
* Iron City and Guinness on Tap
* Authentic Food, Music and Dancing
* All Ages Welcome!
* Don't miss Pittsburgh's biggest Irish Party!
$6-Adult • $3-Children, 3-12 yrs. (under 3- free) • $12-Weekend pass
^ Sprint 
Sprint PCS"
681-1700
315 N. Craig Street, Oakland
LOCALLY OWNED 
& OPERATED
Get $50 cash back when you purchase select 56K’ desktop modems with x2" 
technology July 1-October 4,1997. Get $20 cash back when you purchase 
select Megahertz® 33.6 Kbps PC Card Modems and Ethernet*Modems from 
3Com® at your campus bookstore or computer center July 1-October 31,1997. 
Keep track of these valuable offers and get extremely organized with a 
PalmPilot" Connected Organizer, and rage to the head of the class!
Good for one paid admission.
$1 off with coupon and college I.D. 
Present coupon at box office for discount. 
No cash value.
"Maximum download speeds are limited io 53kbps. Actual speeds may vary. Uploads travel at speeds up to 28kbps. Requires 
x2-capat)Ie nxxlrin, x2-contpn title analog phone line and x2-capable service provider. See \vww.usnconvfx2 for details.
3Com*' U.S. Robotics, Megahem are registered trademarks and x2 and PalmPilot are trademarks of 3Com Corporation its subsidiaries Cl 997,3Com Corporation.
USRobotics* 56K Desktop Modem
C3_
Megahertz* Ethernet*Modem 
Model XJEM3336PalmPilot Connected Organizer
PITTSBURQl}
m&o?¦Go‘ErGio3Lk
Sept. 12-14, 1997
l*C Light Amphitheatre and Festival Tent 
Station Square
Friday - 4 pm - Midnight * Saturday -11 am - Midnight + Sunday - 9 am - 6 pm
Storm with laria o'Lionaird Brother
HOURS:
Sun.-Thurs. 11am-2am 
Fri. & Sat. 11am-3am
WE ACCEPT VISA & MASTERCARD!
Furniture
with
Style
for off campus 
living.
When it comes to collegiate 
survival, bargains and best 
buys are the realistic approach 
to life, and just like pizza... 
we deliver too!
Framed
Artwork
$9

---------------------------------------------------

E-MailA ^FryTLowi sOaoTi
: MFryTlcwiiOc
.. E-mail: Wileytoon@aol.comWritdm Group www.washingtonpo5t.com/wileywww.waahmgtonpost.Gom/wileyWriter» Gr
E-Mail: MFryTlcwiiOc
E-Mail: WFryTl«v.isCool/E-Mail: MFryTlewiiOoot

---------------------------------------------------

¡S3f. n.> ^-mall: WileytooB@aol.comWritiro Group www.washingtonpoat.com/wiley"2 „„P„„ E-maii: Wileytoon@aoi.comWHt« r» Group www.wa9hingtonpo9t.com/wiley¡¡E.™«« E-mail: Wileytoon@aol.com
writoro Group www.waghingtonpost.com/wileyw9hingtonpo9t.com/wiley
.s®«"
The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon University • 8 September 1997

---------------------------------------------------

ST PAUL 
CATHEDRAL
FIFTH AVENUE
HEINZ
CHAPEL
A()frp AVENÜi
CATHEDRAL | 
OF LEARNINGUNIVERSITY
CENTERDONNER
HALLTHE
CARNEGIEGSIA
HUNT
LIBRARY,
Graduate School 
of Industrial 
Administration
for only
687-9555
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.
Catholic Newman Center 'UM Mass Schedule A
located at 4450 Bayard Street offers 
programs for university students on a weekly, 
biweekly, and monthly schedule.
Student Vrograms
dgUr)S)HUdH­r SRBCb provides a friendly atmosphere in which college stu­
dents can come to a deeper understanding of the Catholic Faith. Every Wednes­
day evening begins with Mass at 6:15 pm, followed by a free buffet supper at 7 
pm, and a discussion on some religious topic between 8 and 9. Feel free to attend 
either the whole evening, or just part.
GRADUATE Group meets biweekly on Monday evenings for a discussion on an 
aspect of the Catholic Faith. This year’s topic will be the Catechism of the Catholic 
Church. Section Four — On Christian Prayer.
­nt R.C.I.A. program is for those interested in joining the Catholic Church or 
just learning more about it. Those baptized Catholics who are interested in re­
ceiving the sacrament of Confirmation are also welcome.
pdgUH1 9tNbtRN gather every week at 6:00 pm for quiet prayer and meditation 
before the Blessed Sacrament, followed by Vespers (the Church’s evening prayer).
BlBLE pyC6,tN are held on Friday mornings at 9:00 AM (Bagels provided!), on 
Sunday evenings at St. Paul Cathedral and at Chatham College.
IlLNN,hN BD ktNytR- pb,R,yCLl,yw SRBCb meets biweekly on Monday eve­
nings to discuss the writings and doctrines of some of the greatest 
masters of the Christian tradition. This year we will be reading 
the selected writings of Augustine of Hippo.
There are other programs not listed such as retreats, lec­
tures, movie nights, and social justice activities that are 
scheduled throughout the semester. Please read the Sun­
day bulletin for ties and places or stop by and visit the 
Ryan Catholic Newman Center. We are open Monday- 
Friday, 9:00 AM-10:00 pm, weekends 1:00 pm-10:00 
pm. Please phone 681-3181.
Sundays: 
10:30 am GSIA, Posner Hall, Mellon Auditorium 
12:00 Noon Heinz Chapel 
8:00 pm GSIA, Posner Hall, Mellon Auditorium 
Weekdays, Monday-Friday: 
12:30 pm University Center Chapel 
Staff: 
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Director 
Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O. 
Fr. David Abernethy, C.O. 
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
NEWMAN CENTER
PIZZA OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
YErv b ,/Ia / (rr!
Sunday-Thursday 11am - 2am • Friday Sc Saturday 11 am - 3 am
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
ONE-TOPPING
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include 
an equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free 
local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two 
blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 fashionable shops and 12 deli­
cious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES:
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 92, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania8 September 1997
Movie focuses on male power ideals
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
There have been women who have 
walked out numb. There have been 
men who have left the theater with a 
look of pain about them. The question 
“Have I ever acted like that?” has doubt­
lessly crossed everyone’s mind, regard­
less of gender.
¦ What: In The Company of Men 
Director: Neil LaBute 
J Company: Sony Pictures
Because as much as In the Company 
of Men has been hyped as a story of two 
men treating a woman in the cruelest 
manner imaginable, the film actually 
boils down to one simple plot premise: 
power. And not just the power that 
men have over women and vice versa, 
but the power that we all need to feel in 
order to think we’re important.
The film’s major story line revolves 
around Chad (Aaron Eckhart), a slick, 
vicious, chain-smoking businessman 
who hates everyone and attempts to 
usurp weakness whenever he catches 
a whiff of it. Chad’s boss Howard (Matt
“Anyone looking at him in his 
white shirt and maliciously 
charming grin has to wince for 
fear of seeing a piece of them­
selves in his eyes„"
Malloy) is the perfect foil for Chad’s 
ego-ridden character. Uncertain, plain- 
looking, and trusting, Howard is remi­
niscent of the nerdy kid in high school 
who had the intellect to overcome the 
popular kids but whose Achilles’ heel 
— the possibility of being popular — 
always got him in the end.
One drunken night, Chad challenges 
Howard to a game: They choose a 
woman, wine and dine her for six weeks, 
then drop her just to see the anguish 
she experiences.' Howard timidly 
agrees, and the power struggle unfolds 
before the viewer’s eyes.
The movie has a constant air of know­
ing it is supposed to be unsettling. This 
feeling stems from the introduction of done and unbelievable — that people
the brilliantly casted actors.
Besides being a bit long, the opening 
also seems to scream, “Listen to the 
way these guys are talking! Listen to 
this conversation! Doesn’t it shock you? 
Doesn’t this make you angry? Good! 
Get ready to be angry then!” Well, 
maybe it doesn’t scream, but the mes­
sage that what the viewer is about to 
see will disturb them is certainly well- 
encoded in the opening dialogues.
At first, this outright exposition can 
be distracting —- no one wants to feel 
that the screenwriter thinks they’re so 
unintelligent they have to be told to be 
shocked, especially by material as bla­
tant as this. But as the movie 
progresses, the viewer realizes that 
the reason the opening is so obvious, so 
intentionally graphic is because the 
rest of the movie isn’t.
On the surface, the scenes seem to 
tell the story of the omnipresent battle 
of men versus women in relationships, 
but the undercurrent of emotion is 
really about the ongoing battle ofwho’s- 
got-the-power-and-how-can-I-steal-it- 
from-them-no-matter-what-it-costs. 
Chad is not trying to destroy the life of 
Christine (Stacy Edwards), the deaf 
woman that he chooses for the game. 
--------i------------- He’s trying to de­
stroy all of the 
things that he 
thinks are a hin­
drance to him and 
what he deserves. 
Aaron Eckhart 
gives a great perfor­
mance in this sleazy 
role;
======== All of the actors
do amagnificentjob, 
and writer/director Neil LaBute should 
be commended for making them each 
distinct and eerily believable despite 
their larger stereotypical purposes of 
portraying separate parts of the hu­
man psyche.
The cinematography is as sparse and 
barren as the sterile emotional world 
in which the characters are revolving, 
making the overall effect of the film as 
haunting as the premise.
Walking out of the theater, someone 
remarked that they couldn’t believe 
this movie was even made. It’s an 
ironic statement, because that’s ex­
actly what the movie wants you to 
think. It wants you to think it’s over-
the characters at the beginning of the 
film. These first scenes revolve solely 
around Chad and Howard introducing 
themselves to the viewer via extended 
conversation in the ultimate “travel- 
ing-businessmen” locale, the airport. 
This lengthy beginning lets the viewer 
know which guy is the good guy and 
which guy is the bad guy, something 
inherently obvious just by looking at
aren’t so cruel. Because that’s what 
you want to think. But the truth is, as 
soon as you start to entertain the 
thought that the movie is completely 
ridiculous, you realize you’re wrong. 
This movie is simply an exaggerated 
reflection of what everyone, woman or 
man, has thought, felt or said at some 
point. And that’s by far the most dis­
turbing aspect of the film.
Album suits listeners to a ‘T
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
This stuff will rot your brains. Re­
member when your mom warned you 
against eating too much junk food? Well, 
this is “junk music.”
Who: the Mr. T Experience 
What: Revenge is Sweet, and So
I Are You 
Company: Lookout! Records
The latest disc from the Berkeley, 
California trio, the Mr. T Experience, 
Revenge is Sweet, and So Are You, is a 
sugary dose of pop-punk. This album is 
the perfect gift for the attention-defi­
cient person, with every song clocking 
in at under three minutes. These guys 
don’t leave any chance for you to be­
come bored.
The Mr. T Experience owes as much to 
the music of The Beach Boys as it does 
to the Ramones. They do harmony in­
serts everywhere, as well as having surf 
bass lines most of the time. It’s the kind 
of music you want to bounce around like 
a dufus to and then get embarrassed 
when someone catches you.
Right from the start, the Mr. T Expe­
rience busts into syrupy rock candy with 
“Here She Comes,” a Frankenstein’s 
monster of pop and punk, fused to­
gether with a catchy chorus. From there, 
the album meanders through some more 
poppy punk songs, until it comes to “Hell 
of Dumb,” one the album’s surprises. It 
takes the formula of the other songs, 
slows it down, and throws in a country 
soloist. The band’s willingness to make 
fun of everything, including themselves, 
above all, made me like them.
Their super-sappy surf side rears its 
goofy head in “... And I Will Be With
You.” These guys went for the gusto with 
the intro, a riff born in the back of a 
wood-paneled station wagon. Not only 
that, they mention American Ninja II 
in the lyrics. You’ve got to love that.
A couple songs later, they shed the 
punk exterior and show their pop core, 
with “I Don’t Need You.” It’s a swell little 
stripped down song: 
acoustic guitar, bass, 
and what sounds like 
a recorder doing the 
solos. That cracked 
me up.
The second to-last 
song is a version of a 
traditional song,
“Some Foggy Moun­
tain Top.” This song 
rocks. They turn what 
was a prairie song into 
an upbeat punk tune.
Then they yodel.
My biggest com­
plaint about Revenge 
is Sweet, and So Are 
You is that many of 
the songs sound the 
same. Towards the 
latter half of the al­
bum, it feels like you 
are listening to one 
seven-minute song 
instead of three 
shorter songs. But 
once in a while, a song 
will start up and 
change the pace a 
little bit.
Another flaw tug­
ging this disc down­
ward is the lyrics. It’s 
not exactly prize-win­
ning poetry. Fortu­
nately, the lyrics do
outpace most of the crud found in your 
average pop song, but that isn’t say­
ing much. So, if you want depth, try 
Lake Erie.
It’s pure sugar, easy on the ears and 
the brain, but definitely not good for 
you. But it tastes great going down, and 
even better coming back up.
courtesy of Lookout Records 
The Mr. T Experience makes you want to dance like a fool.
grR (Om!a —cs—ocs—da Ovrh/eda
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The first play of the 1997 Pittsburgh 
New Works Festival, Reliquary by 
Mickey Kessler, is an awkward play 
about a scholar of medieval literature 
who is robbed of all his education and 
knowledge by two X-Files-type federal 
agents who come to collect on unpaid 
student loans. He is broke, so they hook 
a bizarre machine up to his head, press 
a button, and when it’s over, he no longer 
knows anything about his subject. In the 
haze of his new-found idiocy, he is forced 
to choose between his mother-in-law, 
who offers him a high-paying job, and 
his wife, who wants to re-teach him 
everything he once knew.
Kessler’s play receives a generally solid 
production from director Mark Calla and 
the Red Barn Theater, but the script 
itself can’t decide whether it wants to be 
an all-out comedy or a serious consider­
ation of scholarly ideals versus a com­
fortable lifestyle. Because it tries to be 
both, it fails — it is neither funny nor 
profound. The play is over the top in its
humor (those federal agents are really 
weird) and heavy-handed in its character­
ization, with lines like, “We held each other 
like lovers since the beginning of time.”
The second play of the evening, Move 
to First, by CMU playwriting professor 
William Kovacsik, is a vignette about a 
baseball game in the last days of Forbes 
Field, where a rookie L.A. Dodger is on 
first base, guarded by a veteran Pitts­
burgh Pirate. The quick, snappy dia­
logue centers on the rookie’s cockiness 
and on how much he has to learn from 
players who have been in the majors for 
many years.
What the play is really about, how­
ever, is the passing of the torch from old 
to new, the beginning of a transition 
that would redefine baseball. It is to 
Kovacsik’s credit that this subtext is 
never stated or sentimentalized (as was 
the case with Reliquary). The actors 
play their foul-mouthed, ordinary-guy 
roles with great relish and authenticity, 
and although you wouldn’t think there 
would be room in the City Theatre’s 99- 
seat Hamburg Studio for six actors and 
a first base line, nevertheless, director
lance-eric skapura pulls it off.
The final play of the evening is a cruel 
and unforgettable drama by T.S. Frank 
entitled Eat the Clock. A woman, Brenda 
Flavors, is confronted by a girl who may 
or may not be her estranged daughter. 
Brenda (Charmagne Bossola) and her 
husband Jimmy (Dale Irvin) have been 
plotting to steal a valuable antique clock 
from a local mob boss, and it turns out 
that the girl (Hilary Morris) has been 
sent to them by this infamous and feared 
man. The questions of whether she is 
really Brenda’s daughter and precisely 
what she wants from Brenda and Jimmy 
create a captivating and subtle tension 
that keeps the play moving and keeps 
the stakes in this dangerous situation 
very high. All three actors display a 
desperate and strained emotion that 
makes you despair at just how screwed 
up the world can be and how unkindly 
people may treat each other.
The New Works Festival is showcasing 
these and other plays from now through 
September 28. For tickets or more infor­
mation, call 881-1
Push me over, baby...
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor 
The local band PUSH played a free concert on the fraternity quad Friday night.
1odOv JO—v mreOmna X,c/v/| aOvs
LONDON (AP) — Hours after 
what he called the toughest per­
formance of his life, Elton John 
went into a studio to record the 
song that prompted countless 
tears when he sang it at the fu­
neral of his friend, Princess Diana.
The recording of “Candle in the 
Wind,” with lyrics reworked to 
honor the princess as “England’s 
Rose,” will be released within a 
week, with proceeds going to a 
memorial fund set up to support 
her favorite charities. It was re­
corded with Sir George Martin, the 
man responsible for producing 
many of the Beatles’ songs.
John said in a BBC interview 
Sunday that he hopes the record­
ing will raise as much as 10 mil­
lion pounds ($16 million). Music 
industry experts have predicted 
it could become the biggest-sell- 
ing single of all time.
The song, with its hesitating 
rhythms underscored by John’s 
graceful piano arpeggios, appeared 
to be the most wracking moment 
for many of the 2,000 people at­
tending the funeral inWestminster 
Abbey — and for many of the mil­
lions watching on television.
It was during the song that 
Diana’s sons, Prince William and 
Prince Harry, wept, their previ­
ous composure dissolving.
“When I started singing and 
playing, I suddenly realized this 
was it,” said John, 
whose tenor voice 
caught as he sang.
“At the beginning of 
the last verse, my 
voice cracked and I 
was really chock full 
of emotion and I had 
to close my eyes and 
grit my teeth and get 
through it.”
However deep his 
sadness, it could have 
been worse: He said 
he and Diana had a 
falling-out this year 
that was smoothed 
over only a few weeks 
ago. He did not give details of the 
dispute, but said it was over a 
charity event.
The resolution came, he said, 
when they turned to each other
John also criticized the celeb­
rities who have made statements 
after Diana’s August 31 death 
saying they could identify with 
her hounding by the press. 
“We have had all this wailing 
and caterwauling 
from people in 
show business — 
Madonna and 
people like that 
who have used the 
press and have 
manipulated the 
press to suit their 
own ends,” he 
said. “For people 
like Madonna to 
say, ‘It was like 
me and the 
paparazzi. I am 
an icon,’you want 
to say, ‘Sorry, it’s 
nothing like you.” 
“What I go through and what 
they go through is nothing to 
what she went through,” John 
said. “It is a nuisance and it is
Elton John 
Princess Diana’s funeral
frightening sometimes with the 
for consolation after the killing of paparazzi, but I would be a liar if 
fashion designer Gianni Versace I said it was as daunting as wliat 
in July. she went through.”

---------------------------------------------------

kkYi—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTb
wmrve— /md rorP/dra d—r Omncv/mI
By REBECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
Bratty kids and vapid politicians 
aren’t usually the stuff of art. Yet The 
Art of the Everyday: France in the 
’90s, the latest exhibit at the Pitts­
burgh Center for the Arts, seeks to 
elevate the scenes and objects of ordi­
nary life to high culture. The show 
consists of the works of eight young 
French artists, all of whom walk a 
fine line between celebrating the ev­
eryday and satirizing it.
The kids are featured in the work 
of Joël Bartoloméo, who videotapes 
his wife and children as they go 
about their routines.
Because of the subject 
matter, the tapes look 
like amateur video­
tapes. The familiarity 
they breed make the 
disturbing elements of 
Bartoloméo’s work, 
such as a scene in which 
his daughter terrorizes 
the family cat, all the 
more disconcerting.
In fact, much of the 
artwork in this exhibit 
hides unsettling or 
thought-provoking 
ideas under a decep­
tively simple surface.
They make you look 
twice at images you’re 
likely to see every day 
and not notice. Valérie 
Jouve’s large photo­
graphs appear at first 
glance to be nothing 
more than documen­
tary pictures of the 
bleak outskirts of French cities. 
Yet the contrast between the deso­
lation of the landscape and the vi­
tality of humanity, as represented 
by the people who hang their laun­
dry on the windowsills of their 
cheap apartments and throw their 
heads back and laugh in front of 
pristine garages, allows us to no-
dustrial regions really are.
Rebecca Bournigault videotaped sev­
eral people she knows in the act of put­
ting on makeup or lip-synching to them­
selves. Watching total strangers do these 
personal activities that are rarely seen 
in public makes us look freshly at them. 
Jean-Luc Moulene’s works, “Hard Core” 
and “Law II,” consist of close-up photo­
graphs of important people in his life 
and of various food items. Since these 
pictures are so close-up in scale, the 
viewers are forced to look more carefully 
at these ordinary-looking people and 
cans of food than , they’d otherwise be 
likely to do.
One of the highlights of the exhibit
tice how fake and boring these in-
courtesy of Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
Valerie Jouve’s print, Untitled #20, is on display at the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts through November 2.
was Frédéric Coupet’s multimedia col­
lection of works satirizing politicians.
Coupet founded a fake political party 
called the Mouvement Quotidien, or 
Everyday Movement, and uses it as 
an instrument for critiquing the in­
creasing banality of politics. For ex­
ample, the Everyday Movement’s slo­
gan, “politics is the art of making the 
necessary possible,” mimics the ten-
dency of politicians to deliver lofty but 
meaningless statements.
Last Friday night, Coupet also did a 
performance as the Everyday 
Movement’s “candidate.” He strung 
together vapid and disjointed phrases 
for 20 minutes, then slumped to the 
floor, chest covered in blood, as the 
sound of a bullet shot rang out. I don’t 
quite understand what this “assassi­
nation” was supposed to symbolize, 
but his work as a whole did a remark­
able job of exaggerating how inane 
contemporary politics can be.
Another artist whose work incorpo­
rates criticism of the social images 
and ideas we’re all so used to is Claude 
Closky. Closky’s 
huge collage, “A 
1000 things to do, ” 
is composed of 
those stupid im­
perative state­
ments that maga­
zines love to print. 
This makes for 
some interesting 
juxtapositions as 
we are simulta­
neously told, for 
instance, to “cher­
ish life,” “promote 
clear pores,” and 
“squash various 
small insects.” By 
stringing all these 
commands to­
gether without 
evaluating them, 
he seems to imply 
that all 1000 ofthe 
commands are 
equally impor­
tant, and thus 
that they’re all meaningless.
The Art ofthe Everyday is fascinat­
ing in the way it forces viewers not 
only to look at the mundane elements 
of life we all take for granted, but to 
also see them with new eyes.
The Art of the Everyday: France in 
the ’90s is at the Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts until November 2.
Big screen returns 
to theatrical roots
The Critical Eye
by Alex Lewin
When cinema was in its infancy, mov­
ies looked very much like filmed plays. 
Early films like A Trip to the Moon 
(1902) and The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari 
(1919) often looked as though they 
were performed on a stage and filmed 
in a theater with the camera situated 
in the seats.
Today, films rely less on that stage­
like atmosphere, but current cinema 
still owes a lot to stage plays on a 
more subtle level. Particularly, in the 
independent film world, we are see­
ing movies like In the Company of 
Men, Heavy, Slingblade, Fargo, and 
Secrets & Lies. These are not adapta­
tions of stage plays, but movies writ­
ten for the screen that feel like plays. 
They have few characters, few loca­
tions, long scenes of dialogue, and 
their stories are centered on charac­
ter change and revelation.
Part of the reason for this trend 
could be the nature of independent 
filmmaking — low-budget films re­
quire simple locations and simple vi­
suals, which is one reason we don’t see 
these films coming out of Hollywood. 
Maybe if Heavy writer/director James 
Mangold had had a 50 million dollar 
budget, he would’ve thrown a car chase 
or a gunfight into his film (as he did 
with his second, slightly higher-budget 
film, Cop Land).
But maybe the presence of these films 
demonstrates an affinity for play-like 
stories. Perhaps the man who helped 
bring popular attention to the indepen­
dent film world — Quentin Tarantino
— has also nurtured the trend of play- 
ish movies. His first film, Reservoir
Dogs, was very stage-like and it gained 
a certain cult following that provided 
impetus for the massive popular follow^ 
ing of his second film, Pulp Fiction. Al­
though that film would be harder to 
actually put on stage than Reservoir 
Dogs, it still makes use of long dialogue- 
heavy scenes, and the dialogue in tho&e 
scenes was brilliantly genuine: “No ma$r 
riage counselor, no trial separation -!£- j 
fuckin’ divorced. And I don’t wanna gUt | 
fuckin’ divorced.”
Adaptations of plays for film are in 
vogue, as well. In 1996 we saw Hamlet, 
The Crucible, Marvin’s Room, Evita, and-i ! VWilliam Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet, j 
among others.
And while it’s harder to identify-' tt£e 
influence of plays in mainstream H§llyr 
wood films, nevertheless, those mqyij& 
have seemed somewhat heavy on,tKe 
dialogue lately. Films like Jertty 
Maguire, Con Air, and The Fifth Ete'r 
ment are very chatty, or have very chatty 
characters. They feel like imitations oi 
films such as Pulp Fiction and Fargo 
which identified in critics and popular 
audiences a liking for large quantities 
of dialogue.
Is this a sign of films returnirig £o 
their roots? Or is it a fad? It’s probably 
too early to tell at this point (although 
one can speculate that stage-like films 
will be around for at least as long as 
indie films). The question of fadism 
might also have to do with the quality of 
these play-like movies. If they continue 
to give us painfully annoying characters 
like the screechy DJ played by Chris 
Tucker in The Fifth Element, let’s all 
pray that it’s a fad. If, however, ithis 
movement continues to give rise to fiju|s 
like Reservoir Dogs and Slingblade vanjjd 
Heavy, then it’s a safe bet. "r ;•!I IS!
Alex Lewin is a struggling playwright 
who hopes to make millions of dollars 
adapting his plays for the screen. If you 
or any one you know is looking to produce 
a film about a disgruntled teenager in an 
incestuous family, give him a call. -
School of Computer Science
Deans List • Spring 1997
The School of Computer Science wishes to publicly acknowledge the outstanding academic achievement of the following students 
who have been named to the Dean’s List for the Spring 1997 semester.
Alford, JamesFreshmanHari, PradipJuniorPope, CameronSeniorAlmeida, MarcosJuniorHickman, FrankSeniorPrasangsit, PatrawadeeIt Senior :Alonso, LuisSophomoreHiggins, MichaelSeniorQuek, SiongFreshmanBetz, JonathanSophomoreHoel, JeffreyFreshmanRenfrew, RobertFreshmanBialostocki, GuyFreshmanHorwitz, JeremySeniorRennie, JasonSophomore
Broz, VincentFreshmanHsiung, PaulSophomoreRiley, PatrickSophomore :Bruce, JamesFreshmanIvanovic, ReljaSeniorSand, PeterFreshmanCassella, PaulFreshmanKhoo, YiklinFreshmanSchuresko, MichaelFreshmanChan, ShuSophomoreKillourhy, KevinFreshmanSchuster, BrianFreshmanCheney, JamesJuniorKlivans, AdamSeniorSeshens, EricSophomoreCheng, GordonJuniorKraai, MatthewSophomoreShirley, TimothySophomoreCheung, EdwardSeniorKunz, WilliamFreshmanShowers, BrianFreshmanCier, SeanJuniorLanza, NathanielSophomoreSilverman, MarkSeniorDilello, AnthonySophomoreLo, EdsonSophomoreSmith, MarionSophomoreDoane, PatrickSophomoreLokovic, ThomasSeniorStephenson, JeffreySophomoreDunham, BlytheSophomoreMalyutin, YelenaSophomoreSuppe, ArneFreshman :Durfee, GlennSeniorMegacz, AdamFreshmanSweeney, John‘ FreshmanEkvetchavit, ThanyapongFreshmanMeister, CarlFreshmanTangmunarunkit, HongsudaSeniorFaulring, AndrewSophomoreMerchant, KaushikFreshmanTchou, ChristopherSophomoreFung, JasonSeniorMileti, JosephSophomoreTrask, BarrettSophomore :Garmire, DavidFreshmanMixter, KennethJuniorTumanov, IvanSophomoreGauthier, DavidSophomoreMoise, AndrewFreshmanVallidis, NicholasSeniorGill, ChristyFreshmanNatarajan, VenkJuniorVan Ittersum, ShawnFreshmanGindikin, DanielFreshmanNg, AndrewSeniorVerschell, HenrySophomoreGodfrey, AaronSophomoreO'Keeffe, MarkFreshmanWalker, SeanSophomoreGreenfield, LawrenceFreshmanOser, PhilippJuniorWarwick, JohnSeniorGregorski, JohnFreshmanPaciulan, DanielFreshmanWatson, DavidSeniorGrove, MichaelFreshmanParkison, BrianFreshmanWildstrom, JonathanSophomoreHamlen, KevinJuniorPhelps, AdamSophomoreWoodward, JaySophomoreHansma, ScottJuniorPirestani, KayvonJuniorWu, LeejayJuniorHaran, Murali5-SeniorPlesko, MarkFreshmanZaidi, AsadSophomore
Zimdars, AndrewSophomore

---------------------------------------------------

i—r i/md/v t '/mvrscr UrooOv MvcPrmacdI t N GrEdrCyrm VTTbkoo
lâDH 2210Ih£?A zra 11 1111 m m
movies you may have seen before....
,n, mi ¦ 'miimmmmmm ——
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, September 11
Chongqing Senlin, a.k.a. 
Chung King Expressa iu
Hong Kong writer/director Wong Kar-Wai pre­
sents two tales of lovesick cops. In the first, cop #223 
breaks up with his girlfriend of five years and tries 
to deal with the loss. He resorts to buying tins of 
expired pineapple chunks. He eats a month’s worth,
1 gets this weird bad pineapple buzz going, and goes 
out to a bar where he meets a lady heroin dealer who 
wears sunglasses at night.
The second story barges in rudely, knocking over 
'an expensive end table, and introducing cop #663, 
who has just broken up with a stewardess. He meets 
this flaky girl who screws with his mind by breaking 
'into his apartment and changing the labels on his 
canned foods. The guy doesn’t notice because he’s 
such an emotional wreck that he talks to his towels.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, September 12
Slingblade
Billy Bob Thornton writes, directs, and stars in the 
' film with the alternate title Forrest Gump: Portrait of 
a Serial Killer. Karl Childers, a hand-wringing, funny- 
talking, crazy-haircut-having mental midget, fixes 
lawnmowers and befriends a small boy named Frank 
at the laundromat after being released from the psy­
chiatric hospital for the first time since he killed his 
mama with a sling blade so Frank’s mom Linda would 
" let him move into their garage. This is all hunky-dory 
except that Linda’s boyfriend Doyle is a drunken 
-redneck who doesn’t like Frank veiy much and isn’t 
big on Karl either. Karl thinks Vaughan (played 
masterfully by John Ritter) would be a better dad, but 
he’s funny queer not ha-ha funny.
At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, September 13
Donnie Brasco
, Johnny Depp plays FBI agent JoePistoneandhas 
a really nasty-looking mustache. The actress who 
plays his wife seems to like it (along with sex on the 
stairs), but luckily A1 Pacino as Lefty Ruggiero tells 
him to cut the crap and shave it off. (Apparently the 
mob has the same appearance guidelines as the 
Walt Disney Corporation, which is probably due to 
the fact that they’re both run by Michael Eisner.)
1 It’s actually a true story, believe it or not, about an 
undercover cop who gets in so deep he doesn’t think 
he’s ever coming back. Michael Madsen, Reservoir 
Dogs’ Mr. Blonde, plays Sonny Black, who rises 
through the ranks to become Lefty’s boss.
r At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, September 14
Tetsuo II: Body Hammer
In this live-action sequel to the 1988 film Tetsuo, 
the Iron Man returns for more senseless violence. 
He’s busy transforming himself into a cyberkinetic 
gun when his son is kidnapped by a group of mis­
chievous skinheads. During his poorly-planned res­
cue attempt, Tetsuo is captured as well and subse­
quently experimented upon by the bald youngsters, 
who speed up his mutagenic processes and unleash 
all kinds of bad goodies.
This movie was banned in Germany, a nation of 
people who will eat anything as long as it can be 
crammed into an animal intestine, so keep that in mind 
if your intestinal fortitude isn’t up to Japanese stuff.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight 
¦ In McConomy
H Name the Quote:
“I collect spores, molds, and fungus.”
(“Care for a little necrophilia?”—Kim Greist in Brazil)
Singer splits from her 'Roots’
By STEPHEN BIDWA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Yes, she used to be in Rusted 
Root. But now Jenn Wertz has 
her own boat, and is piloting 
through some rough water. Never 
mind that out of the original five 
band members, only two remain 
— Wertz playing acoustic guitar 
and singing lead, and Stephanie 
Helsel, who does backing vocals 
and percussion. Never mind that 
her original record company, Mer­
cury Records, backed out on her.
But what about the album? here, but only a flavor. Where that Wertz only did backing vo- 
Unlike many freshman albums, Root creates a vibe to get wrapped cals for Rusted Root.
Lovechild’s first collection of work up in and gyrate to, Lovechild is The music is very open, not 
has no 15-minute lull during play more a college club/coffeehouse clogged with 12 instruments all 
where the listener prays for the cool style, where the listener is crammed into one bar of the song, 
next song to be half-decent, pulled in by a catchy hook and Tracks two, four, five, seven, eight,
Who: Lovechild 
i What: Lovechild 
Company: Blue Swan/J- 
Bird Records
Despite the tough times, 
Wertz’s new band Lovechild has 
put together a disc containing 
solid, folk-inspired tunes. Local 
indie label Blue Swan and J-Bird 
Records picked up the album and 
released it.
And Wertz hasn’t stopped 
there. She’s rebuilding the band, 
starting with former Rusted Root 
bassist Ethan Winograd. The 
band also played in both the Fur­
ther Festival and Lilith Fair this 
summer. The other two previous 
members of the band on the al­
bum are bassist Adam Frew and 
drummer Joe Waslousky.
Throughout the en­
tire album, session 
guitarist Korel 
Tunador produces 
electric riffs that 
pulse in and out of 
the acoustic strum­
ming of Wertz, keep­
ing the songs excit­
ing enough to actively 
follow along.
Track six, “Buddy,” 
amazes me since it 
can be put on repeat 
and listened to for an 
hour. Yes, it’s good.
For the most part,
Lovechild’s style is a 
moderate canter 
through rock-tinged 
folk songs. Wertz’s 
storytelling style fits 
well. The band 
doesn’t bind itself to 
one specific style.
Right off the bat, the 
first track, “All Your Oceans,” then rides along with Wertz’s 
hits you with a blues hook right powerful voice, which goes from 
out of Clapton or Robert Cray’s breathy to crooning to belting, 
playing style. but it always pulls the listener
There is a flavor of Rusted Root along willingly. It is surprising
courtesy of Blue Swan/J-Bird Records 
Before Lovechild, Jenn Wertz sang for Rusted Root.
and 10 are all solid 
songs that pas­
sively tug the lis­
tener into the 
river of sound and 
gently carry them 
downstream, de­
positing them on 
the bank, wonder­
ing when it was 
they began to lis­
ten and how it is 
that 25 minutes 
has passed.
It’s that feel, 
that comfortable, 
relaxed feel, that 
is the overriding 
tone of the al­
bum. Of course, 
there are many 
energetic swells, 
but they all blend 
into the greater 
whole of the al­
bum. This self­
titled CD is a solid start to this 
local band’s career. Support your 
local music scene and buy it, not 
because it’s local, but because it will 
become a favorite of your collection.Gangster film bootlegs old concepts
By EMILY LANDES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
It’s this simple: Americans are obsessed 
with gangsters. Figures like A1 Capone, “Ma­
chine Gun” Kelly, and John Dillenger have 
long mesmerized our collective conscious­
ness. Hollywood has cashed in on this fasci­
nation, like any other, by creating a number 
of mobster-themed movies. Sometimes the 
results are outstanding: The Godfather, 
Scarface, Goodfellas. But other times, film­
makers’ efforts to produce the slick, opulent, 
and ultimately destructive gangster world 
just fall flat.i
What: Hoodlum 
Director: Bill Duke 
Company: MGM
Hoodlum, a new film from Bill Duke, falls 
with a resounding thud under the latter. It 
tells the true story of the war to control 
Harlem’s number-running racket during 
the Depression. Bumpy Johnson (Lawrence 
Fishbourne) arrives home from prison after 
several years to find that Harlem is no 
longer controlled by Madame Stephanie 
(Cicely Tyson), a.k.a. “the Queen,” and is
instead run by Dutch Shultz (Tim Roth).
He quickly becomes a key player in Ma­
dame Stephanie’s operation, much to the cha­
grin ofhis virtuous girlfriend, Francine Hughes 
(Vanessa Williams). He rises so rapidly in the 
ranks that after Madame Stephanie is brought 
up on gambling charges, he assumes control of 
what is left of her empire.
Once in command, Johnson launches a 
full-scale war against Shultz. Shultz fights 
back with equal vigor, and soon, Harlem is 
awash in blood. Famed mafia leader Lucky 
Luciano (Andy Garcia) mediates in an at­
tempt to quell the publicity which has begun 
to threaten his own business. But, even with 
his cajoling, both sides refuse to give in.
The basic problem with “Hoodlum” is that 
all the artistic and plot devices have been done 
before, and have been done better. The audi­
ence is shown Bump/s rise to power through 
a cliched montage of machine-gun fire, flashy 
suits, and falling poker chips. Almost every 
stereotype is accounted for—the crooked Irish 
cop, the WASPy special prosecutor, the Jewish 
accountant, and even the monosyllabic West- 
Indian bodyguard. Every character is a cari­
cature. The thugs are so generic and over 
the top that one half-expects Pruneface and 
Flat Top to walk onto the screen.
Following in the long line of gangster mod­
els, the women in this movie are more sym­
bols of virtue and goodness than they are 
actual characters. But Williams puts as much 
heart as she can into her one-note role.
Fishbourne is good as the morally con­
fused Johnson. Unfortunately, he also 
has the most horrific dialogue in the 
film. He actually says, “The jig is up.” I 
am not kidding.
Anyone who has seen the third Godfather 
installment knows that Garcia has the cool, 
slick demeanor to play master manipulator 
Luciano. For those who haven’t, he is 
Hoodlum's one pleasant surprise, even with 
the grossly exaggerated lazy eye.
But oh, Tim Roth. Tim, I have seen Mr. 
Orange. I know Mr. Orange. Dutch Shultz is 
no Mr. Orange. It’s hard enough to create a 
realistic character with enough bravado/stu­
pidity to refer to “dagos from Yonkers” in 
front of Lucky Luciano but, combined with 
Roth’s Brooklyn/British hybrid accent, his 
portrayal is almost laughable.
There seems to be a quickly growing phi­
losophy in Hollywood that exploiting good 
ideas from other movies is the same as creat­
ing them. But, if Hoodlum is any indication, 
Hollywood needs to rethink.Great guitarists unite on new album
By BRENDAN BOSWORTH
Tartan Staffwriter
After recovering from brain an­
eurysm-related surgery in the 
early eighties, jazz guitarist Pat 
Martino felt “dropped cold, empty, 
neutral, cleansed ... naked.” He 
was left with little memory ofhis 
family or the numerous records 
and collaborations that marked 
his prolific career.
Who: Pat Martino 
What: All Sides Now 
Label: Blue Note
He used his own recordings and 
computer music programs to as­
sist him in his remarkable come­
back to guitar and has released 
four albums since.
All Sides Now, his debut on 
Blue Note Records, brings into 
form his philosophy that “The 
guitar is of no great importance 
to me. The people it brings to me 
are what matter. They are what 
I’m extremely grateful for, be­
cause they are alive. The guitar is 
just an apparatus.”
Pat’s musical magnetism cer­
tainly shines through on the new 
CD. Appearances by Joe 
Satriani, Charlie Hunter, Mike 
Stern, Les Paul, Michael 
Hedges, Kevin Eubanks, and 
Tuck Andress make All Sides 
Now appear to be a one-sided 
guitarfest.
In fact, the song choice and 
diversity within the roster of 
guests create a moody, almost 
schizophrenic listening experi­
ence with only one common
thread — the dark, geometric 
guitar voice of Pat Martino.
The album opens with the 
Leslie speaker-soaked organ 
sound of Charlie Hunter’s eight 
string guitar. Hunter, Martino, 
and drummer Scott Amendola 
renew a classic tune with their 
samba interpretation of Stevie 
Wonder’s “Too High.”
Though this track and 
three others employ a full 
band, the bulk of the album 
and its finest moments come 
in the duo format. All are 
guitar duos, with one excep­
tion. Vocalist Cassandra 
Wilson joins Pat for a stir­
ring version of Joni 
Mitchell’s “Both Sides Now.”
Pat’s relationship with guitar 
icon Les Paul comes full circle on 
the bright, bouncing swing of “I’m 
Confessin’ (That I Love You).” 
Pat’s father took him at age 
eleven to see Les Paul perform 
in Atlantic City, where the two 
met backstage.
This tune is followed by the 
aggressive, distorted scream of 
Joe Satriani’s guitar on “Ellip­
sis,” a song written by Satriani 
and Martino. Thankfully for 
the listener, Satriani refuses 
to let his sound be dampened 
by Martino’s more reserved ap­
proach. As the liner notes say, 
“Styles became happily 
warped” when these two sat 
down to create.
Mike Stern and his band join 
Martino for a ballad, “Ayako,” 
and a burning uptempo swing, 
“Outrider.” Perhaps the most pro­
gressive guitar work, though, oc­
curs on the gospel/jazz track with All Sides Now comes recom- 
Tuck Andress, the acoustic mended as a great introduction 
funk number with Kevin to today’s fine guitarists by a 
Eubanks, and the pop/classi- future legend, Pat Martino, 
cal hybrid of 
“Two Days Old,” 
written by 
Michael Hedges.
Pat Martino’s 
experiences in the 
R&B, straight­
ahead, and fusion 
settings all con­
tinue to be vital to 
his performance 
and composition.
The beauty of 
this album is that 
the listener longs 
for each collabo­
ration to extend 
into a full-length 
experience. Most 
guitarists won’t 
need any nudging courtesy of Blue Note
to take notice, but Many guitarists join Martino on his new release.
vjniininm
E3anvIllililiP^
fî OÔ öservice
with
62.wairstudent ID

---------------------------------------------------

Soptombor 8, 1997
In the Company of Men
will be playing at the Harris 
Theatre through September 25.
Chung King Express
will play at 7:30*10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in McConomy Audito/ium.
will play at 7:30.10pm, and 
12:30 am on Friday 
in McConomy Auditorium, i
Snake Fang
will play at 8 pmjon Friday and i
2 pm on Saturday 
Carnegie Museum of Ait.
Donnie Brasco
will play at 7:30,10 pm. and 
12:30 am on Saturday 
in McConomy Auditorium. .
Nude with Oranges
will play at 8 pm on Saturday at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Tetsuo II: Body Hammer
will play at 8,10 pm. and 
midnight on Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
D.W. Griffith — Biograph Years
will play at 2 pm on Sunday at. 
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Happy Bithday Vctor
"But I thought you 
wanted to go to 
Casbah Tech!" 
How many fingers 
do I have? 
SEX!!!!
Two VUest is the best 
I love you guys.
— Rachel 
why don’t you like 
squishy animals?
Kevin scares me.
Dear World,
I don’t know what to do. 
My life is falling apart. I need 
a friend.
— me
I have nothing to 
say to the world.
Dear me, 
/-Til be your friend.
¦ A —World
(j\TIc/
A1 wants more Vox submissions, 
You can advertise for free in The Tartani
If you know of an event on or of f canv 
pus that has relevance to the campus 
community, mail it to The Tartan, Box 
17 in the Camegie Mellon University Cen­
ter or email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu 
by Thursday at 5 pm.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the en­
tire campus community! To submit a vox, 
simply send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via 
campus mail, drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the infamous Tartan Server, 
or email it to auyourtgOandrew. cmu.edu.
lsi Populi is your own personal way 
of lashing out at this bleak universe by 
sending messages to aliens who might 
come to save us from this horrible exist­
ence, someday.
University CALENDAR
September 14, 1997
Johnny Depp takes a break from filming Donnie Brasco to read The Tartan. The film, not the paper, will be playing in McConomy Auditorium on Saturday.courtesy of TriStar Pictures
oncampus
Where Does Students’ Time Go is the 
subject of a seminar as part of the Center 
for Innovation in Learning (CIL) Educa­
tion Seminar Series. The seminar will be 
presented by Aaron Kozbelt of the CIL, 
Kenneth Kotovsky, professor in psychology, 
and Dick Hayes, from the CIL and psychol­
ogy, on Friday from noon to 1:20 pm in the 
Connan Room in the UC. A study con­
ducted on first- and third-year students 
will be presented. For more infprmation, 
contact Bruce Sherwood at x8-8530 or 
bas@andrew.cmu.edu.
Graduate Resources at CMU is the first 
session of the 1997-98 Graduate Student 
Seminar Series and will take place Thurs­
day at noon to 1:30 pm in Rangos Hall in 
the UC. Paul Fowler, associate dean of Stu­
dent Affairs; Karen Litzinger of the Career 
Center; and a representative of the Gradu­
ate Student Assembly will discuss the wide 
range of graduate resources available on 
campus that can help make life in gradu­
ate school easier, and the transition to life 
beyond graduate school smoother. Lunch 
will be provided. To register, email 
Kathleen Minadeo Johnson at 
kmj@andrew.cmu.edu no later than noon 
on Wednesday. If there is a preference for 
a vegetarian or kosher lunch, indicate this 
in the registration email.
Going to Graduate School will take 
place on September 16 from 5 pm to 6:30 
pm in the Connan Room in the UC. This 
informational session is directed to seniors 
and other undergraduates interested in at­
tending graduate school and in need of in­
formation and advice concerning how, 
when, and whether to apply. Mitchell 
Small, professor of Civil and Environment 
Engineering, along with a panel of gradu­
ate students, will discuss the application 
process, choosing the appropriate program, 
acquiring recommendations, and seeking 
funding. A question-and-answer period will 
follow the panel discussion. Students are 
encouraged to submit questions they spe­
cifically want addressed to Lisa Ritter at 
lr2c@andrew.cmu.edu prior to the pro­
gram. Refreshments will be served. If you 
are interested in attending, RSVP your 
name and department to Kathleen 
Minadeo Johnson at kmj@andrew.cmu.edu 
by Friday.
Taiwanese Student Association is spon­
soring a white water rafting trip on Sep­
tember 20. The trip will cost between $40 
and $50. For more information, contact 
Douglas Lee at douglasl@andrew.cmu.edu.
Do-Something Day is a campus-wide 
event that seeks to encourage activism on 
campus and participation with various
activities organizations. On Saturday at 
11:30 am, Paul Loeb will address the is­
sue of apathy on college campuses. Follow­
ing the keynote speech, information ses­
sions will take place to show attendants 
more about campus organizations and 
their causes. Students and faculty will be 
able to attend three of the 15 different 40- 
minute workshops throughout the day. 
Lunch will be provided. Registration takes 
place in front of Doherty Hall on weekdays 
from noon to 3 pm or at the UC Informa­
tion Desk. People can also register on the 
day of the event between 11 am and 11:30 
am. For more information, email Douglas 
King at dek@andrew.cmu.edu.
Student Dormitory Council will be hav­
ing its second meeting this Wednesday at 
7:30 pm in the Connan Room in the UC. 
Participating in SDC enables interaction
• with administration on campus issues and 
planning campus-wide events. For more in­
formation, contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC 
Public Relations, at x2-3003.
Event Planning, sponsored by Student 
Activities, will take place on September 23 
from 5-8pm in the UC. Interested stu­
dents need to register at the UC In­
formation Desk by September 15.
museums
Patty! ... Set The Table! will be on ex­
hibit at the Hewlett Gallery from Septem­
ber 11 through October 3. The installation 
by Patty Gallagher, renowned for her out- 
landishly decorated vintage bras, will fea­
ture surreal settings. Visitors will be able 
to sit with lavishly dressed mannequins 
representing Tarot-women archetypes, 
dress themselves in a milliner’s shop, or 
reveal their worst fashion sins in a confes­
sional. For more information, contact 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
and head of the School of Music. Admis­
sion is $10, $8 for senior citizens. For more 
information, call the Camegie Mellon Con­
cert Line at x8-2383.
The Van Pelt, an emo-punk band, will 
play an all-ages 8 pm show on Tuesday at 
the Oakland Beehive. The show will open 
with The 1985, Manifold Splendor, and The 
Viragos. Cover will be $6. For more infor­
mation, call 687-7961.
Nihilist Spasm Band, the legendary 
Canadian improvising ensemble together 
since 1965, will perform at the First Uni­
tarian Church in a concert sponsored by 
AB Concerts on Saturday. This 8 pm show 
will be opened by local group Water Shed. 
Cover is $6, $3 for CMU students.
Bazooka, a set of Los Angeles jazz-rock- 
ers, play at the Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 
on Wednesday, September 24 at 9 pm with 
locals Cloud. Cover will be $4. For more 
information, call 682-8611.
Oakland Beehive will have gothic and 
industrial music on September 15 when 
Mindless Faith and Gossamer stroll on by. 
Cover is $3. England’s Shadow Ring will 
bring space rock on September 16 along 
with openers Idea Fire Company, Meisha, 
and Dead at 24. On September 16, it’s indie 
pop with New York City’s Run On and lo­
cals Five Ball and Low Numbers. All shows 
start at 8 pm and are open to all ages. For 
more information, call 687-7961.
Dub Narcotic Sound System, featuring 
Calvin Johnson of Beat Happening, will 
play an 8 pm, all-ages show on September 
22 at the Oakland Beehive. D Plus, 
Johnsons, and Blazing Bulkheads will 
open the show. Cover will be $6. For more 
information, call the Beehive at 687-7961.
mance, Musicology. The class will be con­
ducted by Dr. John Chemoff, adjunct as­
sociate professor of music on Tuesdays 
from 7—9 pm in Room 123 in the Mu­
sic Building at the University of Pitts­
burgh. The program is designed for per­
sons already competent in the performance 
of percussion music. Enrollment is limited 
to 12 students and admission is strictly by 
audition. The enrollment fee is $100. For 
those interested in participating, an enroll­
ment form should be requested by calling 
624-4126. For more information, call 
Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
readingseries
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Kelly Parker and Maurice Kilwein 
Guevara on Tuesday, September 9. Open 
poetry will take place at 8 pm and sched­
uled readings at 8:30 pm. For more infor­
mation, call 362-1190.
religion
Choral Compline will be performed by 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir at Heinz 
Chapel on the Pitt campus at 8:30 pm on 
Sunday evenings. The Prayer at the Close 
of the Day is the way that the Church says, 
“Good Night.” J. Barbara McKelway, of the 
Community Presbyterian Church of Ben 
Avon, will be the guest organist on Sun­
day. For more information, call 682-6886.
theater
musicaroundtown
Anti-Flag will be performing on Septem­
ber 13 with Violent Society, Whore House 
of Representatives, and The 1985 at 6 pm 
at Club Laga on Forbes Avenue. Cover is 
$6. For more information, call 682-2050.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season on October 27 with 
the Julliard String Quartet at Carnegie 
Music Hall. Tb order tickets, call 624-4129.
CuaHeto Latinoamericano kicks off the 
Camegie Mellon music season with works 
by Chilean composer Gustavo Becerra, 
Brazilian composer Heitor Villalobos, and 
Brahms on Saturday at 3 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium. The concert will 
feature Dr. Kenneth Keeling, clarinetist
Pittsburgh Irish Festival will take place 
this weekend in the IC Light Amphithe­
ater Tent at Station Square. The festival 
will feature Irish entertainment, refresh­
ments, and Irish cuisine, along with 
children’s sing-alongs, dance lessons, and 
storytelling. Also featured will be Blarney 
Bingo and the Irish Dog Display Tent. The 
festival will be open on Friday from 4 pm 
to midnight, Saturday from 11 am to mid­
night, and Sunday from 9:30 am until 6 
pm. Tickets are $6, $5 in advance. Week­
end passes are available for $12. For more 
information, call 422-5642.
African Drumming is a 12-week master 
class presented by the University of Pitts­
burgh Department of Music and A Bridge 
Across: Intercultural Composition, Perfor­
The King’s Noyse: English Ballads for 
Voice and Violin Band will be performed 
by David Douglass and his Renaissance 
violin band at Synod Hall and St. Paul’s 
Cathedral on September 27 at 8 pm. The 
program, sponsored by Renaissance and 
Baroque, will feature the lusty and refined 
music of 17th-century England. For more 
information, call 682-7262.
Confessions of a Nightingale, an award- 
winning one-act play co-authored by Ray 
Stricklyn and Charlotte Chandler, will 
kick off the 1997-98 season for the Inter­
national Poetry Forum on September 19 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall and Septem­
ber 20 at Colonial Theatre of Robert Mor­
ris College. Tickets are $20 for the Sep­
tember 19 performance and $50 for the 
September 20 benefit performance. For 
more information, call 621-9893.
Samuel Hazo’s Feather will be pre­
sented on September 26 by the Interna­
tional Poetry Forum. Tickets are $12. For 
more information, call 621-9893.
