VOL. 49—No. 8 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., NOV. 8, 1955
Tartan And Technical 
Win National Honors
The Carnegie Tartan has placed third in the country in the 
large school classification of the annual Pi Delta Epsilon college 
newspaper contest. This is indeed remarkable because the Tartan 
•was in competition with about 50 other college papers, many of which 
were from schools much larger^---------------------------------------------------------
than our own.
The Carnegie Technical placed 
first in the country among col­
lege publications of a technical 
natui'e. The Technical drew wide­
spread praise for the high qual­
ity and good presentation of its 
material. Their April issue, with 
the Infinite Cathedral theme, was 
acclaimed by leading scientific 
journals all across the nation as 
being far above similar publica­
tions from other colleges.
The results of the contests were 
announced at the national con­
vention of Pi Delta Epsilon 
journalism honorary, which was 
held October 28 thru 30 in Den­
ver, Colorado. Fortunately there 
were representatives from Tech 
at the conference, Ed Feigen- 
baum and Stephanie Mackay, 
who accepted the awards for our 
publications. Entry in the con­
test consisted in submitting three
Tennessee W illiams 
Author Of Second 
Drama Production
By Barbara Conan
The second production of the 
drama department will be Tennes­
see Williams’ much discussed play, 
“Camino Real.” Williams is un­
doubtedly one of the two leading 
playwrights in the contemporary 
theatre (Arthur Miller is the oth­
er) and has written such success­
ful plays a:? Glass Menagerie, A 
Streetcar Named Desire, Rose Tat­
too, and Cat On A Hot Tin Roof. 
Camino has probably caused the 
most critical controversy as to its 
meaning and worth; however, it 
is generally agreed that it is a 
dramatically exciting and moving 
play.
That title, by the way, is pro-
eopies of the Tartan taken from nounced Camino Real as in real
among last year’s issues. Natur 
ally a sincere attempt was made 
to choose three very good ex­
amples of our publication.
The Tartan was at a disadvan­
tage, because Tech was just large 
enough to be classified in the 
large school category, rather than 
in one of the lower groups. Most 
of the larger schools, having 
journalism departments, would be 
expected to far excel an engi­
neering school in the journalistic 
area.
Neglected up to this point, but 
not to be forgotten, are the first 
and second place winners. Our 
neighbor from down Forbes St., 
the Pitt News, placed first in the 
contest, and second went to the 
Cornell Sun. The placing of the 
two Pittsburgh entries could be 
either a rare coincidince or un­
deniable evidence of the excel­
lent student journalism in Pitts­
burgh, but it may well be due 
to the fact that both the Tartan 
and News utilize styles which are 
Similar in many respects and 
which obviously pleased the con­
test judges
and unreal, and thereby hangs a 
tale. The Spanish means royal 
road and is contrasted to the one 
in the play which is a real road. 
If you think you detect fertile 
ground for symbolism here, you’re 
right. The Camino Real is people 
with an unusual assortment of 
familiar figures, among them Don 
Quixote, played by Joseph Hall, 
Lord Byron, played by Daniel 
Walker, Camille, played by Diana 
Wray and Shirley Mendonca, Cas­
anova, played by Joseph Somers 
and John Clavin, and from more 
recent legend, Kilroy of “was here” 
fame, played by Ray Bevilaqua 
and Yarislaw Levycky.
Others along the Camino Real 
are Prudence (Rosalyn Newport), 
a gypsy (Sylvia Dante and Sara 
Zide), her daughter Esmeralda 
(Nancy Blumenthal and Judy 
Dunkle), Gutman (Robert Fields) 
and La Madrecita (Sally Breskin).
Camino Real opens November 
15. It adjourns temporarily for 
the Thanksgiving vacation after 
which it will reopen for two more 
performances. Tickets can be ob­
tained in Fine Arts Room 100.
C-Book Addenum
In view of the fact that quite a few changes of local address 
and phone numbers occur in the first few weeks of school, Alpha 
Phi Omega service fraternity has decided to take another job on 
its shoulders and publish a small addenum to the C-Book. The 
task of collecting the corrected information for this booklet is 
considerable, so it is being done by means of the coupon below. 
All persons whose aforementioned information is not now as 
listed in the C-Book should fill out this coupon with the desired 
correction and send it to Alpha Phi Omega via intrascliool mail. 
Those whose phone numbers are omitted from the C-Book due 
to the fact that they were omitted from the No. 10 card on the 
registration permit should also fill out the coupon. Corrections 
can be made in the supplement only for those who take the 
time to return the coupon.
Many Worthwhile 
Agencies Receive 
Of Campus Chest
In an effort to educate the stu­
dents of Carnegie Tech as to where 
their contributions will be direct­
ed, the Campus Chest Organiza­
tion has prepared a series of arti­
cles describing the agencies to 
which the Campus Chest Advisory 
Board, made up of campus lead­
ers,, has proposed to allocate the 
1955-56 Chest funds. This is the 
second in the series.
The 1955-56 Campus Chest Or­
ganization has proposed to allo­
cate funds to five Medical Re­
search and Relief Agencies — 
American Cancer Society, National 
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, 
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh, 
Heart House, and UNICEF.
These agencies generally have as 
their purpose the research, educa­
tion, administration, and relief of 
the public in areas of medical wel­
fare. Although they vary as to their 
specific programs, they are largely 
supported by voluntary contribu­
tions and through such drives as 
the Campus Ches Campaign.
The American Cancer Society: 
The American Cancer Society is 
the only national voluntary agen­
cy combating cancer through re­
search, education, and service to 
[Continued on page 8]
Will Herber« 
Gives Lectures
Mr. Will Herberg, lecturer and 
author of the new book, “Protes- 
tant-Catholic-Jew: An Essay in 
American Religious Sociology,” is 
on the campus today and tomor­
row. He spoke this morning at the 
assembly on “Anxiety, Faith, and 
the Courage to Be.” This after- 
hoon at 4:00 he will speak to the
The One That Didn't Count
Bronco DeVries smashes over for a Tech tally which was later 
called back due to an offside penalty. Teaming up with Tom Briner, 
DeVries harassed the Diplomats* defense and sparked the Tartans 
to a 12-0 victory. (See page 6.)
One Week Planned 
For Campus Chest
With a goal of 100% participation the annual Carnegie Tech 
Campus Chest Drive is scheduled to get under way next Monday 
and will extend throughout the entire week of November 14-21.
The, 1955-56 drive is headed by Janet Bishop, vice-president of 
----------------------------------------------------------?Student Council. In her plans for
CFP Reports And 
Suggests Policies 
About Discipline
I
¦
¦
¦
¦
¦¦
¦
I
¦
¦
I
¦
a
I
¦C..
Return to Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity
(Please print clearly.) _
NAME.............................................................................
CLASS DEPT................. PHONE...........
LOCAL ADDRESS .....................................................
Mr. Will Herberg
Noted Lecturer And Author
IHillel Foundation on “Martin Bu­
ber.” Tomorrow at 11:30 he lec­
tures in the philosophy course 
taught by Professor Schwarz on “A 
Critique of Utilitarian Ethics.” To­
day and tomorrow he meets with 
faculty luncheon groups. On Wed­
nesday afternoon at 3:30 he will 
be present at the Coffee Hour in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration.
Mr. Hei-berg is well known for 
his work in two fields—social re­
search and theology. He has lec­
tured and conducted seminars at 
leading academic institutions. The 
New York Times book review sec­
tion ol September 25 said of his 
latest book: “In Protestant-Cathe- 
lic-Jew Will Herberg has written 
the most fascinating essay on the 
religious sociology of America that 
I has appeared in decades.”
The biggest item on the agenda 
of CFP’s last meeting proved to be" 
the subject of fraternity discipline. 
A committee investigating the mat­
ter delivered its report, which in­
cluded suggestions on several main 
points. After a lengthy discussion, 
the suggestions, with minor re­
visions, were accepted as a matter 
of policy until the next meeting, 
where they will be presented in 
finished form for final approval.
One point which has provoked 
extra-curricular consternation in­
volves a rigorous definition of so-
this year’s drive, she has included 
organization of the Campus Chest 
Advisory Board, which is made of 
many campus leaders. At a meet­
ing earlier this fall, as representa­
tives of the student body the Ad­
visory Board recommended the al­
locations program for this year’s 
Chest funds.
It was decided that 45% of the 
Chest would go to student welfare 
agencies throughout the world.
This is an en­
tirely new fea­
ture of the drive 
as in past years 
the greater pro­
portion of the 
funds was di­
rected to such 
the Alleghenyorganizations as
cial probation. In essence it states j County Community Chest. The 
that while on social probation, contributions made next week will 
members of a fraternity may not j be allocated to three major areas
participate, singly or in groups, 
in any campus social activity. If 
enforced, this would put an end to 
the sympathetic invitations com­
monly extended to socially de­
prived Greeks by the campus at 
large. Some naturally resent this.
of need and to respective agencies. 
Following is a breakdown and a 
listing of the percentage of total 
funds to be allocated to each agen­
cy:
Student Welfare
30%, ., . . , „ „ , , , World University Service
?£i!* ° ? ! National Scholarship and
Service for Negro Students 10%
Special Tech Project............... 5%
Social Service 
American Red Cross............... 5%
CFP, but the administration and 
Student Council may also impose 
social probation upon any frater­
nity, as was illustrated in the re­
cent row over bar closing. The 
objection raised is that they are 
unwilling to put such a weapon in 
the hands of the solons on Student 
Council.
Other points brought up were 
the problem of campus stags, the 
enlarging of the CFP patrol of the 
campus, and the manner of bring­
ing formal'charges in CFP.
Pep Rally (?) 
Proves Flop
The course which recent pep 
rallies have been following devi­
ates considerably from the ac­
cepted standard pep rally of the 
past, because this year each one 
has had something different about 
it. The rally Friday night was no 
exception, but the element of dif­
ference came from a somewhat 
different source, the crowd.
The pep rally started in its 
| usual exuberant fashion, with the 
j Kiltie Band and cheerleaders 
I marching across the Cut to More- 
wood. Music chosen for the oc- 
i casion included such works as 
1 Fight For The Glory Of Carnegie, 
! Dear Old Tech, and the ever pop- 
j ular Skibo Song. The Band ren- 
: dered these selections with gusto 
| and with a great deal of accen- 
; tuation by the bass drums.
At the terminus of the Incision, 
the riotous throng marched 
[CoTitiriued on Page 2]
Allegheny County Commu­
nity Chest....................t____20%
Salvation Army ...................... 5%
[Continued on page 3]
Carnegie Leaders 
Hold Conferences 
On November lhl2
The second of the Carnegie 
leaders conferences is to be held 
this coming weekend for the pur­
pose of discussing campus leader­
ship. The keynote dinner will be 
at 5:30 p.m. on Friday, November
11, in the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens, whei-e Provost Elliott D. 
Smith will speak on “Dynamics of 
Leadership,” and lead a discussion 
to follow. This theme will be con­
tinued on Saturday morning at the 
Carnegie Union, when both small 
group and general discussions led 
by members of the faculty will 
take place from 9:00 to 12:00.
This conference is a result of 
the clamor of the first leaders’ 
conference for more of the same 
kind. Another similar meeting is 
tentatively scheduled for early 
spring, at which time there will be 
discussion of some of the major 
problems on campus, excluding the 
leadership problem.
Those planning to attend the 
sessions this weekend are urged to 
make their reservations with thi 
: Dean of Students’ Office by Wed- 
I nesday noon.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 8, 1955
Tau Beta Pi Tutoring
There will be a meeting at 4:30 
p.m. Wednesday. November 9, 
in Room 1112 EH, for all fresh­
men and sophomores wishing to 
take advantage of Tau Beta Pi’s 
free tutoring service. At that 
time a schedule will be arranged 
for tutoring in the following 
technical courses: S-101, S-221,
S-223, S-403, and S-404. Those 
interested but unable to attend 
the meeting contact Ted Hatch 
(211 Boss Hall, MU3-2235) before 
November 9.
AIEE-ASME Joint Meeting
The first of the joint ASME- 
AIEE-IRE student branch meet­
ings will be held on Wednesday, 
November 9, in Room 100, Porter 
Hall. This is part of the series 
designed to make students fa­
miliar with “What An Engineer 
Does In Industry” and is open to 
all mechanical and electrical en­
gineering students.
Mr. N. J. Palladino from the 
Westinghouse Atomic Power Di­
vision will speak on “What An 
Engineer Does In The Atomic 
Industry.” Mr. Palladino, a Le­
high graduate, is well-qualified 
to speak, since he has worked 
on several government atomic 
projects. He is now the subdivi­
sion manager for the power sta­
tion reactor which Westinghouse 
is building for Duquesne Light 
Company in Shippingsport, Pa.
After the meeting free re­
freshments for both societies will 
be available at the Pi Kappa Al­
pha fraternity house.
Debate Club
On Thursday, November 10, the 
Debate Society of Cai’negie Tech 
will hold its first tournament of 
the season. It will be a novice 
tournament with debators from 
the city colleges as well as col­
leges in the Tri-State area parti­
cipating. The purpose is specific­
ally to give newcomers experi­
ence in college debate. Registra­
tion will be at 7 p.m. in the SIA 
Auditorium followed by two 
rounds of debate. Topic to be dis­
cussed will be: “Resolved that 
the non-agricultural industries of 
the U.S. guarantee their work­
ers an annual wage.” •
Men's Dorm Dance
The Men’s Dorm Council is 
sponsoring a fall semi-formal 
dance to be held at the Schenley 
Park Hotel on Saturday, Novem­
ber 19. Students residing in any 
of the men’s dorms will not be 
charged admission. Featured at 
the dance will be Benny Ben- 
ack and his orchestra.
There will be no flowers.
Thomas Mann
Three short lectures on Thomas 
Mann will be presented in the 
Little Theater, Fine Arts, Tues­
day, November 15, at 11:30 a.m.
Professor P. Reinkraut of Du­
quesne University will deliver the 
first lecture on Mann’s The Holy 
Sinner; Professor E. Salgaller of 
Carnegie Tech, the second on 
Doctor Faustus; and Professor R. 
Schwarz also of Carnegie Tech, 
the third on Buddenbrooks.
Delta Skull
Delta Skull held initiation 
Thursday, November 3, for the 
pledges called on Carnegie Day. 
Those initiated were: William
Bryant, Lawrence Bryant, John 
Ittel, Richard Kascak, and Herb­
ert Kriendler.
Queen of W&J 
Home coming Game 
Is Susette Grove
Susette Grove, a sophomore 
Maggie Murph, reigned as Home­
coming Queen of Washington and 
Jefferson College at the Tech- 
W & J football game on October 
29. Since there are no female stu­
dents at W & J, one queen candi­
date is sponsored by each of the 
ten fraternities and one by the in­
dependents. Susette was chosen 
to be the candidate of Delta Tau 
Delta. She was elected queen by 
the vote of the student body, win­
ning out over the other ten, one 
of whom was a former Jaycee 
Queen from Penn State.
With a considerable amount of 
pre-game raiding being carried on 
between the two sqhools, it is iron­
ical that a Tech girl should emerge 
as Queen of W & J’s 1955 Home­
coming festivities. It is doubtful 
whether the voters were imme­
diately aware that-the £irl whom 
they were electing queen was as­
sociated with the school provid­
ing the football opposition for the 
day.
Susette, a sophomore clothing 
and textiles major and a member 
of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority 
was crowned at the half-time of
Music Professors 
To Be Featured 
In Friday Recital
A trio recital, the second in a 
series of faculty recitals this 
year, will be presented on Fri­
day evening, November 13, in the 
Exhibition Hall, College of Fine 
Arts, at 8:30 p.m. The program, 
a combination of classical and 
contemporary works, will feature 
Professors Gustaf Andreasson, 
violin, Eugene Eicher, ’cello, and 
Nelson Whitakker, piano, and 
will include:
Trio, Op. 1, No. 3
in C Minor ...........Beethoven
Trio, Op. 34.................................
.... Alexandre Tchereprine 
Trio, Op. 99, in B-Flat
Major ........................Schubert
Mr. Andreason, a graduate of 
the KungJ, Musik-Konservator- 
ium Stockholm, Sweden, has 
been the violin instructor at Tech 
since 1945. He was for 25 years 
a member of the former Busch 
quartet, which concertized in 
Europe and the United States. The 
quartet performed for such dig­
nitaries as the Pope in the Vati­
can, Rome, and in 1938, was in­
vited to tour the U.S. by Arturo 
Toscanni, of the NBC Symphony 
Orchestra. Mr. Eicher, ’cello in­
structor since 1953, attended the 
Curtis Institute of Music in Phila­
delphia, Pennsylvania, and is a 
member of the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Orchestra. Mr. Whitaaker, 
instructor of piano since 1948, is 
a graduate of the Universities of 
Texas and California at Berke­
ley.
Sunday evening’s program will 
feature the first performance in 
Pittsburgh of Alexandre Tchere- 
prine’s Trio, Op. 34. The son of 
the well-known Russian compos­
er Nikolai Tchereprino, an ex­
ponent of the school of Rimsky- 
Korsakoff, Alexandre left Rus­
sia at an early age, and has lived 
most of his life in Paris. He has 
concertized throughout the 
United States several times. He 
established residence here three 
years ago and is presently a 
piano instructor at DePaul Uni­
versity in Chicago. He has writ­
ten operas, symphonies, chamber 
and piano music. A unique char­
acteristic of his music is a special 
scale which he employs in all of 
his works.
Tickets for the recital may be 
obtained in the Music Depart­
ment office, Room 159, Fine Arts.
the game by Bruce Bowden, pres­
ident of the V/ & J alumni. Her 
attendant was Babs Bowden, a 
Penn State freshman and the Beta 
Theta Pi candidate. Susette was 
presented with a trophy which was 
the first ever to be given by 
W & J to its Homecoming Queen.
Creole Petroleum Corporation
Would Like to Say 
THANK YOU
for the interest shown in our organization during our 
recent visit to your campus. If you were unable to 
schedule an interview and are interested in
Employment Opportunities
— in —VENEZUELA
Plan now to see us on our return visit in the Spring or forward your 
qualifications by mail to 350 Fifth Avenue9 New York /, 1V.Y.
Campus Chest 
To Concentrate 
On Commuters
Beginning on Monday, Novem­
ber 14, solicitors for Campus 
Chest will begin a campaign to 
contact personally every com­
muter who is not in a fraternity 
or sorority. In the upper classes 
(especially in E & S) the cam­
paign is organized on a depart­
mental basis so that each com­
muter will be contacted by a 
classmate who knows him per­
sonally. This solicitor will ex­
plain the purpose of the drive 
and ask the commuter to put his 
contribution in a special enve­
lope.
The freshmen and sophomore 
classes are organized on a dif­
ferent basis. In the freshmen 
class the solicitors have been 
chosen from the C705 history 
sections and will contact their 
classmates in their own particular 
history section. It is hoped that 
by this method the solicitors will 
know personally most of the 
people whom they are asked to 
contact. In the sophomore class 
the solicitors and their lists of 
people to contact have been 
picked from the C715 economics 
sections. The freshman and soph­
omore solicitors will make indi­
vidual contacts with their fellow 
commuters and ask them to put 
their contribution intq the special 
envelopes which the solicitor will 
then collect.
This is the first time that such 
a large scale “Operation Com­
muter” has been attempted. Since 
there are approximately 1600 
commuters to be contacted in
Pep Rally—
[Continued from page 1] 
around in the vicinity of More- 
wood and the fraternity houses. 
However, Morewood Gardens was 
apparently deserted except for a 
few shivering souls who opened 
their windows to see what was 
causing the commotion. Frater­
nity houses greeted the impend­
ing rally with an enthusiasm 
which ranged from indifference 
to actual antagonism. The usual 
throng of apathetic pledges car­
rying their usual torches in the 
usual manner were especially 
conspicuous Friday by their ab­
sence.
Somewhat dampened by this 
type of reception, the Kiltie Band 
and t* 3 cheerleaders retreated 
back across the Cut and headed 
for the men’s dorms with hope 
and renewed vigor. The total in­
terest accorded there almost 
matched that shown on the other 
side of the Cut. At this point, the 
rally was transported to the plat­
form erected in front of MMCC, 
where a few uninspired cheers 
were courageously led by the 
cheerleaders.
By actual count, the mob num­
bered 14 persons in addition to 
the Band ai)d cheerleaders, and 
this number included some of the 
football team and a photographer 
delegated to take an action shot 
of the rally. This highly “differ­
ent” rally was then brought to 
an unobtrusive conclusion, and 
everybody retired to their rooms 
fully charged with good old CIT 
school spirit.
this manner, the commuters alone 
could more than double last 
year’s total by contributing two 
dollars each.
sing
mmm
w
Ut*** '
There are two important reasons why the Martin 
Star is rising...and why your career can rise along 
with it:
...The finest aircraft plant, engineering, electronic, 
nuclear physics and research facilities on the eastern 
seaboard.
... An entirely new management concept in Ad­
vanced Design and weapons systems development, 
embracing creative engineering ranging upward 
from nuclear powered aircraft to anti-gravity re­
search and tomorrow’s satellite vehicle.
There are exceptional opportunities for dynamic 
young engineering talent at the Glenn L. Martin 
Company in Baltimore, Maryland.
See the Martin representative visiting this campus 
Contact your placement office for 
appointment and further details.
IMTX» m-ÊÊSÊ
BALTIMORE • MARYLAND

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 8, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Regular or King Size . . . Snap-open Pack
DRINK
ATTENTION!!
Immediate confirmation of airline reservations to New 
York—November 23—returning November 27—now 
available for the THANKSGIVING holiday. 
Round Trip $35.20 (deluding tax)
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5800 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17, Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
us Chest
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAP. YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0242 or AL 1-3200-made gentle 
for modern taste
Enjoy the fresh unfil- 
Wed flavor of this new 
fcigarette —now in the 
smart new red, white and 
gold package;SCHULTZ IS A MANY SPLENDORED THING
Beppo Schultz, boulevardier, raconteur, connoisseur, sports­
man, bon vivant, hail fellow well met—in short, typical Ameri­
can college man — smokes today’s new Philip Morris Cigarettes.
“Why do you smoke today’s new Philip Morris Cigarettes, 
hey?” a friend recently asked Beppo Schultz.
“I smoke today’s new Philip Morris Cigarettes,” replied 
Beppo, looking up from his 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive 
double overhead camshaft British sports car, “because they 
are new."
“New?” said the friend. “What do you mean—new?”
“I mean modern —up-to-date—designed for today’s easier, 
breezier living,” said Beppo.
“Like this 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive double overhead 
camshaft British sports car?” asked the friend.
“Exactly,” said Beppo.
“She’s a beauty,” said the friend, looking admiringly at the 
car. “How long have you had her?”
Max Shulman’s column — 
“ON CAMPUS”
in this issue, for 
ihe full, exciting story:
Cigarettes
if------PHILIP MORRIS Inc NEW YORK
5 o million times a day 
at home, at work or on the way
There’s 
nothing 
like M
“It’s a male,” said Beppo.
“Sorry,” said the friend. “How long have you had him?"
“About a year,” said Beppo.
“Have you done a lot of work on him?” asked the friend
“Oh, have I not!” cried Beppo. “I have replaced the pushrods 
and rockers with a Rootes-type supercharger. I have replaced 
the torque with'a synchromesh. I have replaced the tachometer 
with a double side draft carburetor.”
“Gracious!” exclaimed the friend.
“I have replaced the hood with a bonnet,” said Beppo.
“Land o’ Goshen!” exclaimed the friend.
“I have replaced the gasoline with petrol,” said Beppo.
“Crim-a-nentlies!” said the friend.
“And I have put gloves in the glove compartment,” said Beppo.
My, you have been the busy one!” said the l’riend. “You must 
be exhausted.”
“Maybe a trifle,” said Beppo with a brave little smile.
“Do you know what I do when I’m tired?” asked the friend.
“Light a Philip Morris?” Beppo ventured.
“Oh, pshaw, you guessed!” said the friend, pouting.
“But it was easy!” cried Beppo, laughing silverly. “When 
the eyelids droop and the musculature sags and the psyche is 
depleted, what is more natural than to perk up with today’s 
Philip Morris in the red, white and gold package?”
“A bright new smoke in a bright new pack!” proclaimed the 
friend, his young eyes glistening with tears.
“Changed to keep pace with today’s changing world!” de­
clared Beppo, whirling his arms in concentric circles. '“A gentler, 
more relaxing cigarette for a sunnier age, an age of greater 
leisure and broader vistas and more beckoning horizons!”
Now, tired but happy, Beppo and his friend lit Philip Morrises 
and smoked for a time in deep, silent contentment. At length 
the friend spoke. “Yes, sir,” he said, “he certainly is a beauty.”
“You mean my 2.9 litre L-head Hotchkiss drive double over­
head camshaft British sports car?” asked Beppo.
“Yes,” said the friend. “How fast will he go?”
1. Bright, bracing taste..* 
ever-fresh and sparkling.
2. A welcome bit i 
of quick energy .. • 
brings you
back refreshed.
“Well, I don’t rightly know,” said Beppo. “I can’t find the
Starter. ©Max Shulnun, 1955
The makers of Philip Morris, who bring you this column, unsure you 
that whether you're in a steek new »ports car or the old family sedan, 
your best driving companion is new, gentle Philip Morris.
vidual students; the Advisory 
Board will then make the final 
decision after considering the rec­
ommendations. It has already been 
suggested that the 5% be used for 
a special project on the Tech cam­
pus if possible.
•onifo UNDE* AUTHOtlTY OP THE COCA COIA COMPANY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF WTTSBl'BGH 
5ÍÍÍ Center Avenue Hll*»é I-••11
"Cok*" it a rtgittttid trade-mark O 1953, TH( COCA-COLA COVPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 8, 1955
Little Man On CampusEditorial—
Tartan Aims
Since mid-semester exams are over and 
the series of four page Tartans has been dis­
continued, we feel inspired to discuss a sub­
ject which should not incite as much contro­
versy as some of those undertaken prior to 
Homecoming. This is intended to be merely 
a statement of what we feel a school paper 
should be, and what we intend to do with 
the Tartan.
On page 1, there appears a report of the 
Pi Delta Epsilon national college newspaper 
contest in which the Tartan received third 
place in the large school category. This 
award was entirely unexpected by us, but 
rather than to stop and gloat over our past 
achievements, we want to work to continual­
ly improve the Tartan. This means not only 
in a mechanical way, that is, better balance 
among news, columns, pictures, and ads, bet­
ter headline and copy preparation, etc., but 
also in a journalistic sense, that is better 
coverage of campus news and especially an 
effort to build up a reputation as a firm sup­
porter of the best interests of Carnegie Tech 
rather than just a paper to print news.
Along the first line, we have made much
progress already. We now have a fairly good^________________
balance among news, features, pictures, and ads. This has 
been possible through the addition this year of new feature 
columns, a good photographic coverage system, and many 
new reporters. We have a very capable copy and layout 
staff which has enabled us to devise a more balanced and 
attractive format and to practically eliminate spelling and 
punctuation errors.
It has often been suggested to us that a good campus 
newspaper should include some news of national affairs, 
more news of a gossipy type, or at least, some mention of 
the current performers at the Pittsburgh Symphony and 
Playhouse, etc. To all three our answer is the same, that is, 
we agree that these may be important, but space limita­
tions usually prevent their inclusion. An Around the Town 
column is run when possible, but we feel our first duty is 
to include the campus news which does not appear in print 
elsewhere.
Toward the second goal, we have moved more slowly. 
It is our hope that we may soon have every department cov­
ered by a reporter who can report happenings of interest. 
These can be part of the Bulletin Board column, which is 
an old idea renewed this year, or they may bear further in­
vestigation as material for news stories or features
As we implied before, we believe we have a responsi­
bility to the school to take a firm stand on issues, contro­
versial and otherwise, of all-school importance. Rather than 
saying such and such is a nice idea and stopping there, we 
believe a good college paper should use the influence it has 
the power to exert to bring about some action. With a little 
investigation, it is possible to choose a course which would 
be in the best interests. We hope we have cut down on the 
policy of always complaining about things (usually to the 
administration) without offering definite solutions.
If we can succeed in all of these objects, then and only 
then will we be satisfied to coast. But right now, we realize 
we are,far from perfect despite the fact that we won an 
award. VO LO .O
by Bibler
'AFTER LOOKING CVB? YOUR GRAPES I'D SAY YOU BOTH HAP 
SEVERAL FACTORS WORKING AGAINST YOU - THE FACULTY/
OFFICES; Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Museum 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates calJ SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech- nology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-chief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Business Manager ..........................................................................................................:...Vic Shiry
Nens Editor .......................................................................................................................Mario KingSports Editor .................................................................... ...............................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor.................................................................... .......... .................................... Richard Fox
reattires Editor..........................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Sorkin. Circulation Manager—Harley Bernbach.
Reporters- Evelyn Alessio, Anne Mehler. Pat Michell, Arthur Marino, Kay 
Melenyzer. Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Barbara Hoenstine, Janet Buvinger, Ann Forest, 
Joan Coj^rich, Jo Todes, En Harriet Chang, Bob Smith. Bud Palmer, George Bangs, 
Anna Hatsfeld, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, Marlene Daehnert, Susie Stryker, 
A1 Ffderowicz, Gene Anderson. Bob Jack, Joe Batson. Features Staff—Joe Szewc, 
Luis D^I.a Macorra, Ron MacFarlane. Sports Staff—James Lacey, Dick Swaney, 
Gerald Pittler. Bob Hoppe. Photographers—John Russell, Phil Rathke, Stan Zawa- 
dowicz. Art Staff—Ron Fritts, Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Copy Staff—Ed Rogers, 
Bill Mowry, Wade Biggs, Ed Holsten. Office Staff—Carol Millsom, Anne Barnes, 
Mary I.,angdon, Ruth Knott. Copy Runners—Jim Kelly, Vic Oburg. Circulation 
Staff Ira Levine, Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters. Advertising Staff—Herbert 
Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on Ocwoer 4, 1807, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rate* of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions SI.10 
per year.
Letters—
Poster Problem
Editor, the Tartan:
Upon several occasions I have noticed that pos­
ters have been removed from campus bulletin 
boards before being outdated, presumably by stu­
dents seeking room to post signs for their pet 
projects.
Since much time and care are normally put into 
the preparation of these signs, my plea is for fair 
play and consideration on the part of all concerned. 
The problem might be alleviated if we would keep 
the overall size of our signs and meeting notices 
down to a reasonable maximum.
Walter Heintzleman
Public Relations Chairman of S.C.F.
Light For Reading ?
Editor, the Tartan:
Incredibly enough, there exist on the Carnegie 
campus several student facilities that have suc­
cessfully withstood the benefits of electricity. They 
are Skibo, which enjoys the unparalleled advantage 
of marketing foodstuffs in a deceptive manner 
with the aid of heavy shadows, and the Fine Arts 
Library. The situation at Skibo has been exam­
ined by several generations of Carnegie students 
and is not the concern of this protest.
The situation at the Fine Arts Library is to 
say the least perplexing. The collection of books 
is admirable when compared with the school’s 
anemic library facilities and both librarians—in­
cluding a very distracting recent appointee—are 
American, affable, congenial, brave, clean and rev­
erent. True their health has been impaired by a 
lack of sunlight and they have failed to qualify 
for the Administration’s cleverly worded Rickettsia 
insurance clause but is this any reason to neglect 
a hallowed campus retreat? The administration 
has seen fit to permit this library to prosper by 
the sheer force and vitality of Miss Fawcett’s good 
natured joviality and wit, plus seven remarkable 
flashlight batteries which operate the entire lighting 
system producing one “I can’t see a darn thing” 
at book stack height.
Indeed, it is a wise administration that ex­
hibits caution in embracing every invention but, 
gentlemen Trustees, let us re-examine the school’s 
policy that “electricity is not here to stay”: if nec­
essary let us petition industry for an impartial sur­
vey of the merits of this suspect miracle to assess 
its true value. If the financial situation at Carne­
gie presents an insurmountable obstacle, let us, 
as a group, appeal to the Community Chest for 
the necessary funds to combat rampant blindness 
in our Fine Arts Library!
Signed
John G. Kauper.
Campus Fever
Flagstaff Hill 
staffs.
a hill made out of old flag-
Generally speaking, the Kiltie Band members are 
quite level headed, but one of their members 
backed into a fan in Skibo . . . and was half kilt.
* * *
We shouldn’t complain about mid-semester ex- 
! ams . . . they give us a chance to express our 
j teacher’s viewpoints.
Inquiring Reporter—
Education At Tech
By S illy Day
Now that mid-semester grades are due, the sub­
ject of grades and studies takes a prominent place 
in conversations. The Tartan thought it would be 
a good time to get the student’s opinions on what 
they thought they were achieving scholastically.
Martha Phillips, Senior, Chem E.—I expected to 
find at Tech the kind of education that can turn 
out competent engineers. I believe that kind ol 
education can be obtained here. The test lies in 
the success or failure of “typical” graduates. Car­
negie graduates are reputedly successful, which 
leads me to believe that the things an engineer 
is expected to know are here for the learning.
Bob Stach, Junior EE.—I believe that I am 
receiving from Tech all that I expected and more 
in the way of education. I am getting a well- 
rounded education in my field—one that is going 
to be of much value to me when 1 go into indus- 
try after graduation. In comparison with what I 
have heard about other schools offering similar 
courses, the plan of education at Carnegie seems 
to be advanced to a much higher degree.
Dody Chidester, Sophomore Home Ec.—I feel 
that Tech is preparing me scholastically to take a 
place in the professional world, but it is such a 
cut and dried prepai'ation. By that I mean that 
there is not enough variation and choice in the 
courses available. Maggie Murphs are at the be­
ginning of the year confronted by the question 
“What electives would you like tb take?”, followed 
immediately by the statement, “You will take this 
or that.” And so, because these eertain courses 
are required by a department, we are not exposed 
to such courses as music appreciation, religion, 
etcetera, that are offered in other schools. If we 
are not limited to courses that are specifically within 
the scope of our chosen profession.
Ed VanEman, Sophomore Metallurgist—I find 
that I have too much work to enable me to learn 
the courses fully. Therefore, some courses suffer. 
They teach you to think, but I wish I had more 
time to develop the individual courses. Sometimes 
the instructors are not of the best quality. For 
instance, some of the grad students are just filling 
up space in order to get their fellowships.- I 
noticed this especially in my freshman year.
Margie Katz, Sophomore Secretarial—I am in 
the secretarial studies department in Margaret 
Morrison. My subjects include not onlyv secre­
tarial subjects, but also liberal courses such as 
English, history, and economics. Thus far, my 
courses have been interesting and informative. 
These subjects have given me a wide-range pic­
ture of world affairs, and I feel that, scholastically, 
I am getting what I want from my studies at 
Tech.
Corey Ann McClure, Sophomore Secretarial—
This is my first year at Tech, since I am a transfer 
student. My primary reason for transferring was 
that I did not feel I was getting an adequate edu­
cation at my former college. * I-transferred to Tech 
because I felt that here is one of^the best secre­
tarial courses in the country. The half semester 
that I have been here has confirmed my original 
beliefs. I believe Tech really deserves the high 
rating It has, because, to my way of thinking, its 
scholastic program is better than that of the ma­
jority of colleges.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis De Le Macorra
By now everyone has1 seen notices and posters 
about Campus Chest, but I wonder if everyone 
knows exactly what Campus Chest is aiming to do, 
how they are organized and, what is the principle 
behind it. If by any chance you are one of those 
who would like to know more about this group 
it might be a good idea to turn your radio to WRCT 
on Wednesday night, November 11 at nine o’clock. 
Clarence Schmidt, Mary Lou Lauten, and Sam Gib­
son (coordinator of religious activities) are having 
a program expressly designed for you . . .
This Friday night at the Syria Mosque the Stu­
dent Chorus of the department of music will per­
form along side of Samuel Thaviu, violin soloist. 
I understand they have been preparing this pro­
gram since school began, and throughout this week 
they will be practicing with William Steinberg. 
So I want to wish them the best of luck and hope 
that their performance will be a complete success . ..
By the way, there is another program on WRCT 
that will be worthwhile listening to; this corning 
Sunday at 3:00 p.m., Rabbi Feldman, director of Ihe 
Hillel Foundation, will give a talk about World 
University Seryice that promises to be quite in­
teresting . . .
Do you want something to think about until 
next week? Well here is something for you: 
With how many of your instructors do you feel 
free to discuss matters that may not necessarily 
be connected with your course? Wouldn’t you like 
to see the faculty-student relationship improved to 
a point where you would feel free to talk to any 
of your instructors outside the classroom? ...

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 8, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre S
me picture aoove is dated October 6, 1955, and shows the Har­
riers of Carnegie Tech starting out over the grueling 4.3 miles 
Schenley Park course against Geneva’s Covies. This dual meet of 
four weeks ago proved, unfortunately, to be a premier of last Fri­
day’s championship run at the#—---------------------------------------------—,
Tri-State meet at Slippery Rock.
Friday, November 4, showed six 
men from Carnegie Tech along 
with Coach Bob Carman ventur­
ing to Slippery Rock College to 
face the defending champions from 
Geneva and be numbered among 
Slippery Rock, Grove City, West­
minster, and Bethany as the chal­
lengers. The Covies of Geneva 
proved equal to their task as they 
successfully regained the crown 
but not before Tech’s hard run­
ning harriers gave them one of 
the stiffest battles in the Tri-State 
meets’ history.
Placing for the Tartans were 
Bill Whitman, two speedsters 
named Bryant, and Eric Ottervik. 
These four men have flashed their 
way over the hills and dales im­
pressively this season and posted
Co-Rec Volleyball
Another school championship 
was decided last Thursday night 
when the semi-finals and finals 
were held in the intramural, co- 
rec volleyball league. '
The semi-finals found the 
Delts-Independents facing the 
Phi Kap-Chi Omegas. The game 
turned out to be an easy win for 
the Deltdependents who had to 
play only two games to capture a 
slot in the finals. At the same 
time, but in another corner of the 
gym, the ATO-Dorm B team was 
fighting out a slow game with the 
SAE-Commuters. This game 
proved to be a battle between the 
men on the team and afte^a very 
slow start, the SAE-Commuters 
got red hot and took the last two 
games from the ATO^Dorm B’s 
to put them in the finals.
As the finals started, there 
seemed to be no doubt as to the 
outcome of the game. The Delt­
dependents took -command of the 
situation from the beginning and 
the fine team work they displayed 
proved to be too much for their 
opponents. The end result, was 
that the Deltdependents took two 
in a row to win the school cham­
pionship.
ENGINEERING THEATER
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BY 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto­
motive Engineers in Conjunc­
tion with AIEE & AICHE
Married Students
—with—
HOUSING PROBLEMS
you may qualify 
for an apartmentRENTALS AS LOW AS 
$30 per month
Range, Refrigerator and 
Utilities Included 
Phone MISS JOHNSON 
EXpress 1-1076
a 5-1 record to give Carnegie its 
sixth consecutive winning season. 
By finishing second to Geneva, it 
also established the eighth con­
secutive time the Skibos have 
placed either first or second in the 
district circuit championship.
reached a dramatic climax last 
Friday when Kappa Sigma defeat­
ed DTD, 20-12 for the school 
championship. KS will represent 
Carnegie Tech in the city intra­
mural football program when they 
play the champs from Duquesne or 
Pitt, or both.
The championship game resulted 
in a contest between two outstand­
ing players, Mike Pa>carella and 
Ken Laughery, ot‘ KS and DTD re­
spectively. Pascarella passed for 
one touchdown and ran for two 
more himself. Laughery scored two 
touchdowns on pass run plays. The 
Delts drew first blood on a razzle- 
dazzle play. Laughery took the 
pass from center and flipped a 
lateral pass to Bill Wilton who 
then passed to Dick Sphon. Sphon, 
finding himself trapped by a host 
of players, lateraled to Laughery 
coming up the sidelines. Laughery 
then ran the remaining 15 yards 
for the touchdown.
KS retaliated quickly. After a 
few plays, Pascarella fired a strike 
to Ed Pasierb for a touchdown. At 
the beginning of the third quarter, 
KS went ahead to stay. The Clyde 
Street A.C. received the second 
half kick-off and then used a 
sleeper play with Pascarella pass- 
Delt 14 yard
The Clyde Street Tigers, who gained the coveted football crown.
? ? ?
line. Pascarella then the ball over 
for the score on an end run. This 
made the score read KS 13, DTD 7, 
and from here on in they were 
never to be headed. After the Delts 
failed to score although they ad­
vanced the ball as far as the KS 
two yard line, KS scored their final 
touchdown when Mike Pascarella 
ran the length of the field on a 
series of plays. The Delts scored 
their final touchdown as Wilton
¥ ¥ ¥
passed to Laughery, who ran the
ball over from about five yarc - 
out.
In general, the game was a 
rough, clean hard-fought contest 
with several players who played 
outstanding ball. Beside the two 
stars mentioned above, Ed Pasierb 
and Bobby Vance played excep­
tionally for KS. John Ekiss and 
John Mihm, the Delt ends, made 
[Continued on Page 81
University of 
Southern California
University of Arizona 
Tucson
University of California 
Los Angeles
To those interested
in advanced academic study
while associated with
important research and development
in industry, Hughes offers
two separate,
practical program*:
HUGHES
COOPERATIVE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
FOR MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREES
This program is designed to enable outstanding 
graduates in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical 
Engineering or Physics to obtain the Master of 
Science degree while acquiring experience in an 
industrial research and development environ­
ment. The program is comprised of full-time 
summer employment at Hughes under the guid­
ance of experienced scientists and engineers, and 
part-time work at Hughes during the regular 
school year arranged to permit the student to 
maintain a half-time university schedule of 
graduate study.
Tuition, books and fees Vili be prov ided by
Hughes. The income provided will enable the 
participant to enjoy a reasonable standard of 
living while pursuing his advanced studies. 
Travel allowances will be made to those living 
outside the area.
Applicants must be able to meet the entrance 
requirements for graduate study at the University 
of California at Los Angeles, the University of 
Southern California, or the University of Ari­
zona. Because of the classified nature of the work 
at Hughes, applicants must be U. S. citizens for 
whom appropriate security clearance can be ob­
tained. As many as 150 awards will be made.
Application forms 
and instructions 
may be obtained 
by writing 
to Committee for 
Graduate Study.
THE HOWARD HUGHES FELLOWSHIPS
IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Eligible for these awards are U.S. citizens who 
have completed one year of graduate work in 
Engineering or Physics and who can qualify for 
graduate standing at the California Institute of 
Technology for study toward the degree of 
Doctor of Philosophy or post-doctoral work. 
Each fellowship covers a twelve-month period 
which includes a ten-week advanced develop­
ment project carried out during the summer at 
Hughes Research & Development Laboratories, 
followed by a full-time program of study and 
research at California Institute of Technology.
Each appointment provides a cash awrard of 
not less than $2,000, a salary of not less than 
$2,500, plus $1,500 for tuition and research ex­
penses. In case of financial responsibilities that 
might preclude participation in the program, 
suitable adjustment may be made. Moving 
and transportation expenses are provided for 
those living outside of Southern California.
For application 
forms and
complete information, 
address
correspondence to the 
Howard Hughes 
Fellowship Committee.
OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC STAFF KEÏ-ATIONS
HUGHES RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
I Culver City, Los Angeles County, California
(Above) Dr. Lee DuBridge 
(cet i ter), President, Calif. 
Inst. Tech., greets 
Hughes Fellows with 
Dr. A. V. Haeff (standing), 
Hughes Vice-President.
The intramural football season
Carman's Thinclads 
Second At Tri-StateKS Takes IM Crown
By Gerald Pittler

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tueslay, November 8, 1955
Tartans Edge F&M
The Carnegie Tartans smashed4-
on to their fifth straight victory at e<^- The Diplomats got the ball 
the expense of the Franklin and kac^ immediately as Herbst inter- 
Marshall Diplomats, 12-0, at cepted Ace Adams’ pass on the 
Forbes Field last Saturday before Tartan 42.
2,000 shivering fans. j Powell then completed two more
The game was a battle of fum- ( to make a phenomenal average of 
bles and interceptions as Tech re- ^ f°r 8. Then his luck or accuracy 
covered two fumbles and inter- ran out as he hurled one goalward 
cepted four passes. F.&M. recov- an^ again DeVries got it and ran 
ered two fumbles and intercepted ^ to his own 39, where the half
two passes.
The first nan was a scoreless 
battle as Roy DeVries' sparkling 
defensive plays thwarted three
ended.
Tech came out for the second 
half all fired up. They held the 
Diplomats and took the punt on
Franklin and Marshall drives deep the Marshall 47. From here they 
in Tech territory. A1 Tagliavini re- drove on the ground for a touch- 
covered another fumble. The hard down in 10 plays. Brown, DeVries, 
charging line of: Larry Cassett, Adams, and Tom Briner all shared 
Frank Wengrzyn, Ed Karcher, m plunging the gaping holes made 
John Kohan, Jerry Stalnacker,
Earl Benner, and Dave Love stop­
ped another drive.
Just after tne opening kick-off,
Tech fumbled and Joe Kuehn fell 
on the ball on the Tartan 35. In 
five plays it was Tech’s turn to re­
cover a fumble as A1 Tagliavini 
recovered Carl Drukenbrod’s fum­
ble on Tech’s 21
F&M Fumbles For Tech 
After a Tech punt the Diplomats 
got another drive under way from 
the Tartan 41. This time Earl 
Ebersole fumbled and De Vries fell 
on the ball on his own 31.
From this point Tech gut its first 
drive going. They drove deep into 
Marshall territory where Druken- 
brod intercepted John Tucci’s pass 
on the 15.
The Diplomats stalled on their 
own 41 but Dick Wright got off a 
booming punt after four plays.
Then quarterback Jay Powell took 
over as he completed four passes 
that put the Diplomats on the Tech 
4. Tech’s forward wall then charg­
ed in and held the Franklin and 
Marshall men. Tech took over on 
its own 10, when Powell went back 
to pass and was nailed by Karcher,
Wengryzn, and cohorts.
Great F&M Passing 
Tech moved out to their 24 
where Marshall Brown fumbled 
and Rene Herbst recovered. Af­
ter one completion making it 5 for 
6 at that time, Powell heaved a 
floater into the end zone where 
DeVries leaped high and intercept-
by the Tech forward wall. DeVries 
hurtled the final two yards for the 
TD. His try for the conversion hit 
the upright and bounced bc.ck.
Briner, Scores Second Six
After the kick-off Brown inter­
cepted Powell’s pass on the F.&M. 
35. Tech took advantage of the 
interception and in six plays Tech 
scored. Tom Briner slanted off 
right tackle from the eleven and 
with some good downfield block­
ing went into the end zone for 
the second score. Adams’ try for 
the extra point went wide and 
Tech led 12-0.
Tech contained the Diplomats’ 
offense in the fourth period and 
even threatened the F.&M. goal
twice. Once the drive fell short 
on the one and once they fum­
bled a hand-off which Joe Bostic 
recovered in his own 15.
This week Tech travels to La- 
trobe to meet the St. Vincent Bear­
cats under the lights on Friday, 
and they intend to increase their 
winning streak to six.
ESPECIALLY FOR YOU
A full year’s subscription to any 
one of these three great weekly 
magazines at these reduced prices 
. . . for college students only. Take 
Time, The Weekly Newsmagazine, 
for less than 6^ a week ... or Life,
America’s favorite pictorial, for less 
than 8* a copy ... or Sports Illus­
trated, the first national sports 
weekly, for less than 8t an issue.
The purchase of one magazine does 
not require the purchase of another; 
your special student prices are good 
for all or any of these three weeklies.
Sign up today at the campus book­
store or with your college agent.
Theaa
IM Volleyball
Entries are due on Novem­
ber 9 for those interested in 
playing intramural volleyball. 
Play begins November 14. 
Those interested may sign up 
for practice sessions on the 
Intramural bulletin board. ‘
Skibo Tahle
[Continued from Page 3] 
ceit . . . The weekly movies 
usually shown for the pleasure 
of the men in the dorms have been 
canceled for two weeks due to 
“the filthy condition” in which 
Donner Hall Lounge was left fol­
lowing these movies. “The filthy., 
condition” refers to the cigarette 
butts and candy wrappers thrown 
on the floor, not to mention that 
no one put his chair back in its 
proper place. A quick poll taken 
through the dorms has shown 
that relatively few people (one 
out of six) particularly care . . . 
Orchids to Evelyn Alessio for do­
ing a great job on Campus Chest 
publicity.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
Team
Week of November 12, 1955 
Score TeamScore
Carnegie Tech 
Pittsburgh 
Cincinnati 
Duke
Georgia Tech
Harvard
Iowa State
Ohio State
Minnesota
Navy
Purdue
Michigan
Vanderbilt
Yale
Stanford
St. Vincent 
West Virginia 
Hardin-Simmons 
South Carolina 
Alabama 
Brown 
Oklahoma 
Iowa
Michigan State
Columbia
Northwestern
Indiana
Tulane
Princeton
Oregon
NAME........................................................DEPT.CLASS
To Campus Representative Victor Shiry 
P. O. Box 246, Carnegie Tech
I am enclosing $.................... for ................ years subscription
to ? TIME, ? LIFE,
? SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
Name ..................................................................... Class ..........................
Address ..............................................................................................................
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN’S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in arid deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day’s games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will De judged on the number of correct decisions; in case£ ) 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week’s contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable at the ‘time of publication.
HHHHH UGESRR AGCN DG VGL CNOP MODTLBCCBI HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH—HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
WINSTON Hs back to s-wföw} !
WINSTON
ea¿Lj-dnúAAJM¿i
ciqanettt!
¦ College smokers all over the country are welcoming Winston with 
open arms! This king-size filter cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor. The 
full, rich flavor really comes through to you because the exclusive Winston 
filter works so effectively. In short: Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 8, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
AWAKENERS
the merits of women in the en­
gineering field and gave instances 
of fields in engineering open to 
women. Miss Linda Lee Getz, stu­
dent of the Joanne Neff Dance 
Studio, gave us a little bit of Old 
Hawaii by dancing to Little Brown 
Gal and My Little Grass Shack. 
She later sang a few pieces for 
the group.
Ralph Czemek, as representative 
of Evening Student Council, spoke 
to the group concerning Evening 
Council, it’s purposes and aims.
Those present included: Mr. and 
Mrs. Dalzell McKelway, Lorraine 
Stahle, Lillian Staub, Theresa 
Ammannito, Mary Alice Peterson, 
Frances Dubich, Emily Muhic, 
Doris Rogers, Sandra Dunn, Ellen 
Gonter ,Evelyn Kanaye, Mary 
Alice Chilleo, Audrey Wiskow, 
Myrtle Curtis, Marilyn Phipps, 
Dolores Neff, Mrs. Mercer, and 
Mrs. Lawman.
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
Editorial¦
All Talk But No Action
Students all over the world need 
your help—Support the Campus 
Chest.
WHAT’S THIS? For solution 
see paragraph below.
Birthday Corner¦
Happy Birthday to: Elvira Lo- 
reski, November 14.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
YOU ALWAYS COME OUT ON TOP when you light up a 
Lucky, because Luckies are tops for taste. Luckies taste 
better because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco . . . 
mild, mellow tobacco that’s toasted to taste even better. 
The men in the Droodle above have come out on top, too 
—in more ways than one. The Droodle is titled: Con­
vention of baldheaded men smoking Luckies. Follow 
their shining example: light up a Lucky yourself. You’ll 
say it’s thè best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
TWO BEERS PUTTING 
THEIR HEADS TOGETHER
Joseph R. Leone
Canisius
Your doctor will tell you—a 
NoDoz Awakener is safe as an 
average cup of hot, black cof­
fee. Take a NoDoz Awakener 
when you cram for that exam 
...or when mid-afternoon 
brings on those “3 o’clock cob­
webs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives 
you a lift without a letdown... 
helps you snap back to normal 
and fight fatigue safely!
15,obu,.-35< Kfosrci S3 98«
Dorms) 60 tablet! —
Students!
y w jrS80HCIVHT6MCM0
Cut yourself in on the Lucky Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 for all we use—and for a whole raft we don’t use! Send your Droodles with descriptive titles. Include your name, address, col­lege and class and the name and address of the dealer in your col­lege town from whom you buy cigarettes most often. Address: Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
BUTTON GOING 
THROUGH BUTTONHOLI
Merritt Christensen U. of Minnesota
SAFE AS COFFEE
ikc'ANE
// nlfi ì Jtì
<?This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .:............................................................................................ DoloresNeff
Evening Council 
Sponsored Dance 
On October 29
On Saturday, October 29, Eve­
ning Student Council sponsored 
their first social event of the sea­
son. Amidst the clapping of hands 
and the stamping of feet, Don 
Guyer announced the Allemande
Reporters............. John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy, and Promenade Back Home.
YWCA
The YWCA will hold an all­
membership meeting at 4:30 
p.m., Thursday, November 
10, 1955, in the MMCC Recre­
ation Hall. All are welcome.
Phi Gamma Pi Tea 
Held For Pledges
Woman Engineer 
At ES Council 
Tea October 30
Sunday afternoon, October 30, 
Phi Gamma, Pi girls were hostesses 
at a tea sponsored by Evening Stu­
dent Council. Mrs. Emma Barth, 
Chairman of the Pittsburgh sec­
tion, Society of Women Engineers, 
was the guest speaker. She told of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 8, 1955
RegulRa WILDROOT CREAM-OIU
6M=S MEooNnoeNCE.-^^^;I'LL SAVE v
BUT 
THAT *“ 
WOULD BE 
ILLEGAL!!MV 
NAME »S 
IMOGENE,
NON­ALCOHOLIC
SmokeTomorrow's
~ PUT A ^ 
SMILE IN YOUR
SMOKING!
^fARLtSS^OJDICK
by AL CAPP
ONLY AN IMBECILE WOULD BE 
DISTURBED BY SUCH A f~l 
MESSAGE—G-GAD.r-WHAT b
------------------ A DISTURBING ^
M-MESSAGE"
better cigarette 
Today-
Enjoy a Cool Mildness 
never possible before!
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Co., Pittsburgh 10, Pa.
A Contrast
By Smithton Frump
It’s been a hard day in classes. 
The instructors have been asking 
you questions and, as usual, you 
didn't know the answei’s. Your 
throat is parched as you approach 
Skibo after that chem lab. Your 
mind wanders back to how you 
upset the acid, grabbed the hot 
test tube, and burned your hand. 
You’ve sat in the Doctor’s office 
for 45 minutes, read the cartoons 
in the old New Yorkers, had your 
hand bandaged, received your 
quota of pills, and wended your 
way back to the lab. When you 
got there, your partner had 
ruined the experiment and left 
for the day. Suddenly you’re 
tired, very tired.
You enter Skibo barely drag­
ging your racked body. There to 
add insult to injury is Professer
--------------. You remember him. If
you don’t, he quickly informs you 
that he missed you in econ class 
this morning. This is too much. 
You decide to shut out these cruel 
people, these people who insist on 
plagueing you. You turn towards 
the dorms.
After climbing to the ump­
teenth floor and entering your 
spacious cubicle you're really 
beat. You flop into that nice, soft 
single bed: bury your head in 
that genuine down pillow, and 
relax. Slowly the aches and pains 
dispel themselves and your mind 
wanders.
It’s hard to believe that some 
people live and call home a space 
the size of the twin bed your 
lying on. And yet, 23,000 Cal­
cutta University students live in 
a place that large. It starts to 
rain outside, and the patter of 
the drops against the window 
pane sounds cheery after your 
horrible day. This happy rain 
may be identical to the one that 
desituted 100,000 University stu­
dents in Assam, India. You feel 
compassion for these people.
The next day you fill out a 
Campus Chest pledge to help 
these people less fortunate than 
you. You support your Campus 
Chest.
¡M Football—
[Continued from page 5]
several fine catches to keep the 
Delts in the game.
In the play-offs to determine 
the school champion, KS and SAE 
drew first round byes. DTD defeat­
ed SN, 17-14, in a hard fought con­
test. The Delts stood off a late SN 
rally to preserve their margin of 
victory. ATO bowed to PK, 18-11, 
in another hard fought game. In 
the semi-finals, the Delts took the 
measure of SAE, 21-9, and KS I 
dropped PK, 9-8, in a close, hotly, 
contested contest. KS won the 
game in the final moments with ; 
a desperation pass for the score. As 
you now know, unless you read 
this column from bottom to top, ! 
KS defeated DTD. 20-12, to win 
the school championship. Finally 
it may be interesting to note, that 
there was only one winless team 
in the football program, TDP. j 
EEME forfeited all their games 
and was not considered in the 
analysis.
Final League Standings:
Tartan League
DTD___, , ............................60
ATO(A). . . .............. . . . •51
PiKA42
TX ...................................... ,33
Obelisks...............24
Newman15
TDPhi06
Kiltie League
KS .60
SN51
Grads42
PhiK(B)33
BTP ___, , , ..............• • • . *24
Citcom . ...............................15
EEME .06
Skibo League
SAE . ...60
PMK(A)..........................51
42
24
......................I*24
Sta le Ch<jpges ...............15
ATO(B)15t boom & Mrm sapla ca
Agencies—
[Continued from page 1J
the cancer patient. Among its edu­
cational services are the publica­
tion and distribution of pamphlets 
directed toward saving lives 
through teaching the public what 
they can do to defend themselves 
against cancer. Its major work, 
however, lies in the area of re­
search.
Infantile Paralysis: The National 
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis 
is much like the Cancer Society 
in that it extensively supports re­
search and educational programs 
in an effort to decrease polio af­
fliction. Recent research at the 
University of Pittsburgh led ulti­
mately to the development of the 
Salk Polio Vaccine.
Childrens’ Hospital of Pitts­
burgh: As a nationally recognized 
children’s medical center, Chil­
dren’s Hospital serves as the hub 
hospital for children in the Tri- 
State area. It has instituted a large 
research and teaching program 
specializing in the care of children 
On the average, the center oper­
ates twenty-two clinics seven days 
a week and cares for 173 children 
a day.
Heart House: As an integral part 
of the Association for the Care of 
Cardiac Children, Heart House 
provides for the study, hospitali­
zation, and treatment of children 
! with heart and allied diseases. The 
program of supervised activities 
teaches the children to work and 
play within the scope of their 
physical limitations and provides 
a day-by-day plan of normal liv­
ing which affords an opportunity 
for social and creative growth, 
looking ahead to the child’s return 
to his family and community.
UNICEF: The United Nations 
International Children’s Emergen­
cy Fund provides for the needs of
children under emei’gency condi* 
tions and in areas of extreme need, 
UNICEF is supported to a large 
degree by interested persons such 
as Danny Kaye, who recently film­
ed a documentary concerning th« 
work of the organization.
HER FROM 
THE 
FI END.7
CONTAINS LANOLIN 
AND CHOLESTEROL-/ 
THE NATURAL 
INGREDIENT FOUND 
IN EVERY HEALTHY 
HEAD OF HAIR 
GET WIUMtOOTl
dtihpranou
CHARLIE/?-
WILDROOT CREAM-OtL KEEPS HAIR KIEAT BUT NEVER-(W*r)GREA5YT
"Chesterfield
BEST FOR YOU !
