Green houseDean's double talk
r -i/fNew House awarded silver LEED certification forThe Democrat’s fiscal record in Vermont makes Bush’sfi
its environmentally friendly features.biggest naysayer a hypocrite.
SciTech, A6Forum, A8
To stay or not to stay
a new student organization keep graduates in 
town?
Pillbox, IO
Volume 98, Issue 11www.thetartan.org17 November 2003
Dining Services Satisfaction Survey
178 students responded to The Tartan's dining survey. 
Their answers are averaged in this graph.
enjoy the food seryed at Carnegie Mellon.
portions served are appropriately sized.The
Mynutritional needs can be met on campus
feel that my meals are worth the cost
am satisfied with my meal plan.
am pleased with the variety of food offered
like dining on campus 
________I___________I__
0 1
strong
disagreement
5
strong
agreement
Bum Lee/Art Editor
Dining considers 
mandatory plans
by Andrew Johnson
Editor-in-Chief
A pan of congealing alfredo sauce 
catches the attention of a Dining 
Services employee. She says, “We 
gotta replace that. The manager’s on 
the floor.”
Another responds, “Ooooh. if Jane 
sees that.”
A new agenda for Dining Services 
this year has been freshness. Eateries 
like Pepperazzi’s and Penne’s 
International Marketplace are now 
pre-cooking fewer portions and mak­
ing products like tomato sauce from 
scratch.
Neal Binstock, vice president of 
enrollment, said dining has a brighter 
future this year.
“We’ve made progress. Are we 
where I would like us to be? No,” said 
Binstock. He said that dining can get
there, however. Over the summer, the 
University and Parkhurst discussed 
“milestones” to be met by Dining 
Services, in things like variety, quali­
ty, and a communal dining hall. The 
improvement categories were based 
on Binstock’s findings in surveys dis­
tributed to the parents of first-year 
students.
“I have a higher sanse of confi- ( , 
dence this year,” said Binstock. ; f
The Tartan repeated its survey of 
diners on campus that was carried 
out in October in 2002. Dining 
Services averaged 2.5 on an ascend­
ing five-point scale this year, as 
opposed to 2.2 last year. The survey, 
administered on November 14 and 
15, included 135 first-years, 17 soph­
omores, seven juniors, 10 seniors, 
and nine students whose years were 
unspecified.
See DINING, page A4
International student 
population declines
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
For the past decade, the number of 
international students attending 
CMU has steadily grown. However, 
this year, 661 international students 
enrolled, down from 711 internation­
al students last year.
“It’s sad to see this happening, but 
not very surprising,” said Lisa Krieg, 
director of the Office of International 
Education. “For people in the field of 
international education, this has 
been our concern and fear, that num­
bers would start to be impacted by 
the increased scrutiny that all for­
eigners face [after September 11].”
“We have seen a large drop [in new 
international students] at the Heinz 
School, at least from the Middle 
East,” said professor of social and 
decision sciences Sylvia Borzutzky. 
The drop in international student 
attendance at CMU has occurred 
almost exclusively in the graduate 
program. The number of new gradu­
ate students has dropped from 521 in 
2002 to 459 in 2003. Krieg cited sev­
eral possible factors for this drop, 
including visa application delays, 
possible fears among international 
students of “a chilling environment” 
in America after September 11, and 
the current economy. According to 
Krieg, an increase in qualified 
American applicants for mechanical 
engineering and chemistry in 2003 
probably reduced the number of 
international students who were 
accepted.
The undergraduate attendance of 
international students has acuially 
increased from 146 new students in 
2002 to 159 new students in 2003.
“I didn’t have a problem getting a 
visa, but I had a couple of friends 
with bad problems,” said Ashwin 
Yupta, a sophomore in CS from New 
Delhi, India. “In my freshman year, 
the person who was assigned to be
my third roommate couldn’t come 
because he missed his visa, so I never 
met him.”
Yupta’s roommate was one of nine 
Malaysian students who, according 
to Krieg, were unable to receive their 
visas in time for the start of school in 
2002.
If these nine students had been 
able to attend, the increase in new 
undergraduate attendance for inter­
national students in 2003 from 2002 
would have been only four students.
“In the post-September 11 environ­
ment, there was lots of legislation 
that had a real impact on internation­
al students,” said Krieg. Many of the 
changes implemented to increase 
security also resulted in increased 
delays and difficulties for interna­
tional students, especially those from 
countries under scrutiny from the US.
“I got a green card before coming, 
and the process to get it was a lot 
longer than I was used to,” said José 
Prado, a first-year in ECE from 
Mexico City. “There was a lot more 
scrutiny from the people at the 
[Immigration and Naturalization 
Services] about who they gave visas 
to. It was a tedious, long process.” 
“After 9/11, I remember a lot of 
Muslims came back [to Dubai], espe­
cially Arab Muslims. Perhaps 80 per­
cent returned, because they were 
harassed or afraid. Many students 
applied to the UK or Australia instead 
of the U.S.,” said Malvika Tamhane, a 
first-year economics student from 
Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.
Krieg said that things have begun 
to settle down for international stu­
dents.
“I think the legislators are done for 
now. The pace has changed, but we 
are beginning to settle into the new 
status quo,” said Krieg. “I believe that 
CMU will continue to be a draw for 
students overseas: that students and 
scholars will continue to be attracted 
to what CMU and other top universi­
ties have to offer.”
Founded in 1906 
Independent since 2002THE TARTAN
Protesters rally against FTAA
John Davin/Contributing Editor
by Kevin Chang
Staffwriter
Students got to speak with admin­
istrators about proposed changes to 
the layout and content of diplomas 
for the first time at forums held by 
Student Senate on last Monday and 
Tuesday.
The changes, which include the 
removal of minors, the names of 
individual colleges, and the signa­
tures of the deans of the colleges, 
have caused complaints from stu­
dents since they were announced 
late last year.
“Apparently, there was some limit­
ed input/discussion 3 or 4 years ago, 
but then the issue was not imple­
mented [or] communicated, and the 
changes were sprung on current stu­
dents with no previous knowledge of 
the situation,” said Vito Fiore, 
Student Senate chairperson.
Indira Nair, vice provost for educa­
tion, explained the proposed modifi­
cations and their motivation at the 
forums.
“The diploma was getting to look 
real cluttered and inelegant,” she 
said.
The official documentation of a 
student’s work is the transcript, not 
the diploma, and that the transcript 
will continue to list all minors and
secondary majors. Nair said that the 
diploma was beginning to look like 
an accounting sheet rather than a 
beautiful certificate.
“It is Carnegie Mellon University 
that gives the degree, not the col­
lege,” said Nair, who pointed out 
that diplomas from most universities 
do not include minors. “Other 
schools have only the BS or the MS 
[written on the diploma].”
In the late 1970s, CFA opened its 
doors to allow non-CFA students to 
take its courses and CFA students to 
take courses from other colleges in 
the university. As a result, then- 
President Richard Cyert decided that 
CFA students should have minors 
listed on their diplomas. The regis­
trar then decided to apply the deci­
sion to all students.
Last year, an e-mail that stated 
that the diploma changes would take 
effect for graduating seniors was 
sent in April, just a few weeks before 
graduation. The decision met with 
vehement opposition, so no changes 
were made and the decision was 
postponed to this year.
“You never heard yelling so loud,” 
said Nair. “Senate, as well as the 
Student Body President at the time, 
and general student pressure took 
quick action to reverse changes pro-
¦ See DIPLOMA, page A4
Vice Provost of Education Indira Nair and James Hazelrig, Academic Affairs chair 
of Undergraduate Student Senate, preside over the forum along with John 
Papiiichgk, director of Enrollment Services (not picture^).
Top: Among the protesters were several people bearing the symbol of the 
Anarchists. Bottom: Numbering about-100 people, the protesters carried 
makeshift drums, banners, and generally made a lot of noise along their march­
ing route while decrying large corporate entities.
and regulations and create a corpo­
rate alliance between the United 
States and countries in South 
America. Since its inception, it has 
undergone a series of ministerial 
meetings in which more plans have 
been put forward. The final ministe­
rial meeting is scheduled for 
Thursday and Friday in Miami, 
Florida, and in 2004 -— provided 
that the negotiations between the 
U.S. and Brazil go as planned — the 
FTAA will be put into effect.
Groups such as the United Steel 
Workers of America (USWA) claim 
that if the FTAA goes into effect, it 
would affect American cities, partic­
ularly industry-based ones such as 
Pittsburgh. The USWA, which has a 
substantial membership in 
Pittsburgh, states on its website that 
already 765,000 manufacturing jobs 
have been lost due to NAFTA. With 
the added influence of the FTAA, 
they estimate the number could 
triple. Public services could also be 
cut in Pittsburgh due to a drop in 
funding, causing a decrease in public 
transportation, employment in the 
police and fire departments, and an 
increase in taxes. “Our local decision 
makers’ hands are tied. Our deci­
sions would be made by people who 
don’t live in the city,” said Vining.
Carnegie Mellon’s Progressive 
Student Alliance and People for 
Workers’ Rights also became con­
cerned with the local effects of the 
FTAA. Over the summer, members of 
both student organizations started 
researching globalization issues and 
subsequently became involved in the 
FTAA protest. Daniel Papasian, a 
sophomore in ECE and a member of 
the PSA, became an active partici­
pant in the protest earlier this year.
“If you were to look at NAFTA ... 
then at the FTAA ... it essentially
by Alexandra Kilduff
Junior Staffwriter
There were drums, megaphones, 
and radical cheerleaders on 1 pm 
Saturday afternoon, when people 
gathered in Mellon Square to protest 
against globalization and labor 
exploitation. Their complaints were 
directed primarily toward the Free 
Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), 
a trade agreement similar in purpose 
and structure to the North American 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). 
Both are government-corporate 
charters designed to make it easier 
for multi-national corporations to 
hire and maintain business in for­
eign countries, generally by offering 
more relaxed work standards.
Among the parties represented at 
the rally were the United Steel 
Workers of America, the American 
Civil Liberties Union, the Pittsburgh 
organization Save Our Transit, and 
CMUs Progressive Student Alliance.
The protest and the following 
march at 3 pm were organized by the 
Thomas Merton Center of 
Pittsburgh, an organization involved 
with various local, national, and 
global human-rights issues. Despite 
the center’s local base, the FTAA is 
considered a high-priority issue for 
Pittsburghers.
“Global trade agreements can 
invalidate any local protection of 
environment and community,” said 
Tim Vining, executive director of the 
Thomas Merton Center. “The issues 
of global trade have been off the 
radar screen. What we’re hoping to 
do at this rally is show what is affect­
ed locally.”
The FTAA has long been an issue 
in activist circles. iH'tfie wuke> of 
NAFTA, the FTAA was created at the 
Summit of Americas in 1998. Its pur-

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 17, 2003
I^ge ^
Grenhou shDa'u dbr'ltnru k Nlwnho
Weather
Hi 63 
Lo 50
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
Hi 52 Hi 54
Lo 37 Lo 44
wmmmmmmmsmmmmmsmmmmmmmmtm
FRIDAY
Hi 58 
Lo 43
SATURDAY
Hi 62 
Lo 47
FMS Truck vs. Pole, 
11/10/2003, 9:10 am — A CMU
Truck hit a pole at the entrance to 
Parking Area 1. The driver, an FMS 
electrican, pulled his vehicle into 
the entrance of the parking lot and 
attempted to turn into the sidewalk 
that was right next to the entrance. 
He did not see the yellow pole ton 
his right. The damages included 
dents to the right quarter panel, 
right side door, and rocker panel. 
The vehicle was a 2001 Ford F-150 
and is still driveable.
Sticky Situation, 11/10/03, 
5:37 pm — White notes have 
repeatedly been found on the com­
puters in E&S Library in Wean Hall. 
The librarian reported a 6 inch by 2 
inch post-it note pasted on a com­
puter’s monitor face with the words 
“broken” on them. They have been 
found on two other computers over 
the past two days, also with the 
word “broken” written on them. An 
automation equipment technician 
was checking the computers when
the officer arrived on the scene. He 
told the officer he could not find 
anything wrong with the machine. 
The last person to use the machine 
he was checking on had the yahoo 
account “realitytv2.” The officer 
believed that the stickers had been 
put on the computers to deny usage 
to other individuals.
Stealing, 11/12/03, 1:34 pm — 
The Hunt Library’s Head of 
Cataloging reported that five DVDs 
had been removed from the Tech 
services area of the library. Between 
that night and the next morning 
someone had stolen these DVDs 
from an open area in the library. 
Three of them were Indiana Jones 
movies, one of them contained 
bonus information on Indiana 
Jones, and one was a movie called 
Vampire Hunter D. The stolen movies 
meant the total lost was $60.00 dol­
lars or more. They had no CMU ID 
marks on them.
Theft: Porter Hall, 11/12/03, 
3:38 pm ~~ A backpack was stolen 
from the first floor restroom in 
Porter Hall. A CMU student had left 
his forest green backpack on a hook 
extending from a shelf in the 
restroom. After five minutes, the 
student left the stall and discovered 
that an unknown person had 
removed it from the bathroom. The
bag contained a Texas Instruments 
TI-86 calculator, a calculus text­
book, and various papers and note­
books.
Tree falls on van, 11/13/0:3, 
8:57 am — An officer on bike patrol 
discovered a 50-foot blue spruce in 
front of Donner House that had fall­
en over because of the heavy wind 
and rains. The tree landed on the 
roof of a blue Volkswagon Eurovan. 
The tree was cut apart and removed 
from the area by gardeners. The 
owner of the van is unknown, but 
the officers involved left a note on 
the windshield advising the owner 
to contact University Police concern­
ing the damage to the vehicle. 
Damages consisted of several dents 
on the roof right above the sliding 
door.
Theft: New House, 11/13/2003, 
1:01 pm — A CMU student left his 
posessions in the first floor reading 
room in New House. Among those 
possessions were two text books, a 
calculator, and some graph paper. 
The books were Calculus 
Fundamentals and University 
Physics. The calculator was a TI-89. 
The student claims that he left the 
room for approximately two hours, 
and when he returned, the items he 
had left in the reading room were 
gone.
Damages, 11/13/03,1:32 pm —
University Police was contacted by a 
REPAL contruction worker to report 
damage to a vehicle in Parking Area 
9. The worker was stopped by a 
female student who said something 
flew out of his truck and damaged a 
silver Cadillac. He checked for any 
material that may have fallen out, 
but could not find any. He also men­
tioned that his car would have been 
parked beside the Cadillac at the 
time of the damage. It is suspected 
that strong winds blew a shovel out 
of the truck and hit the vehicle. A 
check of the vehicle found several 
scratches on the roof near the moon- 
roof. The owner of the silver 
Cadillac was out of town at the time. 
When contacted, he stated that he 
did not recall those scratches being 
present when he left.
Medical: Head Injury,
11/13/03, 6:18 pm — CMU EMS
responded to a call from Skibo Gym, 
room 104. A CMU student was work­
ing out with free weights, when the 
actor dropped the barbell on his 
forehead. Injuries consisted of a lac­
eration to the forehead which was 
severe enough to warrant further 
medical attention. The student was 
transported to UPMC for this further 
treatment. The barbell was 200 
pounds, and at the time, the student 
was being spotted by a friend.
Injured ankle, 11/14/03, 12:31
pm — A woman visiting the Heinz 
School twisted her right ankle and 
fell to the ground. She was exiting 
Hamburg Hall while looking for the 
University Center. At the time, she 
was walking down the driveway, 
lost her balance, fell, and landed on 
her hands, knees, and elbows. CMU 
EMS responded and wrapped her 
right ankle in an Ace bandage while 
applying ice to control the swelling. 
She was in so much pain that a 
member of CMU EMS retrieved a 
wheelchair so she could get to 
appropriate transportation. At the 
time of the incident, she was wear­
ing four-inch leather boots with two- 
inch heels. She could not remember 
how she lost her balance.
Incident tallies 11/06 to 11/14
Exacto Knife Injuries: 4 
Thefts: 5 
Medical: 4 
Weather Incidents: 2
Page 2 Compiled by Christina Kung Daniel Goldman
Rutgers students 
fake parking tags
(U-WIRE) NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
— The Rutgers University Police 
Department charged 20 individuals 
with unsworn falsifications after they 
reproduced fictitious Rutgers parking 
tags, according to Lt. John O’Neal.
On October 18, at the Rutgers- 
Pittsburgh homecoming game at 
Rutgers Stadium on Busch Campus, 
police officers on traffic posts spotted 
the false parking passes, which could 
be detected by their poor quality, 
O’Neal said.
The coloring on the tags was not 
accurate, and the real parking passes 
have a reflective “R” that was missing 
on the forged tags. They were also a 
combination of seasonal passes and 
daily passes.
When the officers noticed the tags 
were not real, they seized them and 
issued criminal complaints.
In addition to the 20 individuals — 
two of which are affiliated with the 
university — that were cited, four 
were arrested.
Livingston College sophomore
Phillip Cammidge; Gregory 
Biniukow, a West Orange resident 
and Montclair State University stu­
dent; and David Shah, an Annandale 
resident who is unaffiliated with the 
university, were arrested on October 
18 and charged with theft of services. 
Rutgers College sophomore Steven 
Berliner was arrested Wednesday and 
charged with unsworn falsifications.
“We will continue to look for ficti­
tious tags at all games, including [the 
game on] this Saturday,” O’Neal said.
The 20 individuals are scheduled 
to appear in the Piscataway 
Municipal Court on December 6.
Pitt criticized for 
same-sex policies
(U-WIRE) PITTSBURGH — What 
do a law student, an associate profes­
sor, the American Civil Liberties 
Union, and a state senator have in 
common? They are all opposed to the 
legal actions that the University of 
Pittsburgh has taken in its defense of 
the right to deny same-sex health 
benefits to its employees.
A forum to discuss both the impact 
of Pitt’s lawsuit against the city, as 
well as the broader implications that 
a legal success by Pitt might have, was 
held in Room 324 of the Cathedral of
Learning Monday night.
Deborah Brake, an associate pro­
fessor of law at Pitt, spoke about the 
broader legal repercussions of a Pitt 
victory against the city. She also dis­
cussed the future of local law and 
the ability of localities to pass legis­
lation.
“Their arguments are not limited 
to same-sex benefits, nor are they 
limited to Pittsburgh,” Brake said, 
addressing the effects the legal 
actions could have on the rights of 
gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, 
and queer people.
Vice Chancellor for Public Affairs 
Robert Hill, who was not at the 
forum, responded to the issues dis­
cussed during the evening, saying 
that the University “is a defendant in 
the actions before the Human 
Relations Committee.”
“We never wanted this litigation,” 
Hill said. “We didn’t start it, but the 
University has a responsibility to 
defend itself vigorously.”
Hill added that Pitt still believes 
the appropriate resolution would be 
an “out-of-court one.”
“We’re still hopeful for such a res­
olution,” he said.
Carey Cummings, a third-year law 
student at Pitt, spoke about the ori­
gins of the case, as well as what Pitt 
might be doing to its reputation by 
taking legal actions against the
equal rights ordinance passed by the 
city.
“It’s not an argument that Pitt 
should be making, especially as the 
city’s largest employer,” Cummings 
said.
“It’s just a ridiculous, ridiculous 
argument,” Cummings added.
About 10 years ago, the city of 
Pittsburgh passed an ordinance that 
reaffirmed the city’s commitment 
against discrimination based on sex­
ual orientation, as well as race, 
creed, gender, or age.
A little more than seven years ago, 
Deborah Henson, an employee at 
the time, requested that Pitt provide 
her domestic partner with health 
benefits, as Pitt does for those who 
are married, whether by ceremony 
or common law.
Pitt denied her request, saying 
that Pitt’s policy only provided 
health benefits to employees who 
are married — and marriage is 
defined in Pennsylvania as being a 
union between a man and a woman.
Henson, with the support of other 
employees and the ACLU, sued the 
University for violating the equal 
rights ordinance that the city had 
passed.
Pitt later filed a lawsuit against 
the city, saying that Pittsburgh can­
not pass such an ordinance because 
the city cannot expand upon the
state statutes for prohibiting dis­
crimination.
The lawsuit against Pitt was sus­
pended for a period of time, when 
both parties agreed to the formation 
of a committee to study the feasibil­
ity of instituting such a policy at Pitt.
The committee decided that such 
a policy would work at Pitt, but that 
it might draw financial backlash 
from certain conservative elements 
of the state legislature.
The suit has since been revived.
Lai-San K. Seto, programs coordi­
nator for the greater Pittsburgh 
chapter of the ACLU, first explained 
the entire situation in greater detail, 
then focused on what she felt to be 
the most important issue behind the 
case.
“This is a question about fairness 
for all of us," Seto said. “The 
University has decided not to treat 
its own employees fairly.”
After all of the members of the 
forum had spoken, the audience was 
given a chance to ask questions of 
them.
When one student stood up and 
asked what Pitt had to gain from its 
lawsuit against the city ordinance, 
associate law professor Deborah 
Brake had no answer.
“Besides not offering benefits to 
same-sex partners?” asked Brake. “I 
have no idea.”
World Wire
Serbians fail again to 
elect a new president
BELGRADE, Serbia-Montenegro (AP) — 
Serbians failed for the third time in a year 
Sunday to elect a president because of low 
voter turnout, triggering a political crisis in 
the Balkan republic.
An ultranationalist with close ties to 
Slobodan Milosevic led the ballot, underlin­
ing Serbians’ discontent with the pro-Western 
government that ousted the dictator in 2000 
and the republic’s drift back to Milosevic’s 
nationalism, which triggered the Balkan wars 
in the 1990s.
About 39 percent of registered voters cast 
ballots, exit polls showed, less than the 50 
percent needed to validate the vote, said the 
independent Center for Free Elections and 
Democracy.
Tomislav Nikolic was ahead with 46.5 per­
cent of vote, the unofficial results showed. 
Dragoljub Micunovic, a pro-democracy candi­
date who led pre-election polls, trailed with 
only 35 percent. Four other candidates shared 
the rest of the vote.
Official results were expected Monday, but 
the center’s results have proved reliable in the 
past.
The failed election left Serbia in a power 
vacuum. Parliament was dissolved last week 
because the pro-Western government lost 
• parliamentary support, leaving no one to call 
a new presidential vote. New general elec­
tions were set for Dec. 28.
Serbia’s Vice Prime Minister Zarko Korac 
described the election results as a “tragedy for 
Serbia.”
“We are entering a dangerous, dramatic, 
phase of our future,” Korac said.
Stjepan Gredelj, an independent election 
analyst who monitored the vote, feared “an 
institutional chaos” without a president for 
the republic.
Voters stayed away from the polls because 
of disillusionment with the country’s leader­
ship, which has failed to bring economic
that led to Yugoslavia’s breakup and and the 
ouster of Milosevic, he said.
Labor protests are on the rise, and people 
are generally dissatisfied with their living 
standards in Serbia, which with the much 
smaller republic of Montenegro formed 
Serbia-Montenegro, the country that 
replaced Yugoslavia.
“The politicians are getting what they 
deserve,” Gredelj said.
The last two elections, at the end of last 
year, also foundered because of low voter 
turnout.
Blair pays price for 
supporting Iraq War
LONDON (AP) — President Bush’s state 
visit to Britain this week, conceived as a dis­
play of trans-Atlantic unity, may simply 
remind Prime Minister Tony Blair of the price 
he is paying for supporting the war in Iraq.
Blair’s approval rating has slumped since 
committing British troops to the U.S.-led war. 
Some of his own lawmakers accuse him of 
being Bush’s “poodle,” and recent polls sug­
gest a majority of Britons disapprove of their 
“special relationship” with the United States.
The timing of Bush’s visit, planned 17 
months ago, is difficult for Blair.
The past year has been dominated by inter­
national affairs, and national elections may 
be held in 18 months, so the prime minister 
wants to concentrate on his domestic agenda 
and calm the unrest sparked in his governing 
Labor Party by the war.
In this context, Bush’s “arrival is about as 
appropriate as the appearance of a stripper at 
a wedding,” The Guardian newspaper said in 
a Saturday editorial.
Bush is aware of Blair’s predicament and 
heaped praise on him in a round of interviews 
this week. He also seemed to counter criti­
cism that Blair simply took orders from 
Washington.
“He’s plenty independent,” Bush said. “If he 
thought the policy that we have both worked 
on was wrong, he’d tell me. He tells you what 
he thinks and he does what he says he’s going 
to do.
“And that’s about as high a compliment as I 
can pay a fellow leader.”
La. governor-elect 
starts transition
LAFAYETTE, La. (AP) — Kathleen Blanco, 
celebrating her historic election, started piec­
ing together a new administration Sunday 
that will return Democrats to control of 
Louisiana government after eight years of 
Republican rule.
Blanco, the state’s Democratic lieutenant 
governor, defeated conservative Indian- 
American Bobby Jindal with 52 percent of the 
vote in a runoff election Saturday that dashed 
the Republican Party’s hopes for a sweep of 
the Deep South. And while Blanco, the first 
woman to be elected Louisiana’s governor, 
acknowledged she was still adjusting to the 
new title, she offered an outline of her plans.
“After we hugged everyone and received 
congratulations from everyone, we got down 
to the business of organizing,” Blanco, 60, 
said Sunday.
The win marks the first time a Democrat 
has been elected Louisiana governor since 
Gov. Mike Foster was elected eight years ago. 
Term limits prevented Foster from running 
again, but he had thrown his support behind 
Jindal, his 32-year-old protégé and a 
Republican whiz kid who served as an assis­
tant health secretary under President Bush.
Republicans had hoped Jindal would give 
them a sweep of governorships in every Deep 
South state — Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, 
Alabama, and South Carolina — for the first 
time since Reconstruction. Blanco won with 
52 percent, or 730,737 votes, to Jindal’s 48 
percent, or 676,180. More than half of 
Louisiana’s 2.7 million registered voters cast 
ballots, an unexpectedly high turnout.
Jindal, whose concession speech Saturday 
never mentioned Blanco by name, congratu­
lated his rival on Sunday.
“Today is certainly a new day for Louisiana 
and today should be Kathleen’s day,” he said. 
“We offer our governor-elect our heartiest 
support and will do anything we can to help 
her.”
if
Sam Jones, the mayor of Franklin and a 
Blanco supporter, said the final debate offered 
clear differences between Blanco and Jindal, 
who had often sounded alike in their positions 
— touting tax cuts, improving economic 
development and education reform.
“Voters made up their minds after (that) 
night,” Jones said. “The energy came at the 
end when she drew hard distinctions.”
Jindal led in most polls before Saturday’s 
election, but the numbers were close. The 
week before the election, more than one in 10 
voters were undecided.
Ted Kennedy honors 
his slain brothers
BOSTON (AP) — U.S. Sen. Edward M. 
Kennedy remembered his slain brothers 
Sunday, saying he felt loss, but also inspira­
tion, when thinking of them.
Kennedy (D-Mass.), the influential liberal 
who has served in Congress for four decades, 
was asked on CBS-TV’s “Face the Nation” 
about his thoughts as the 40th anniversary of 
President John F. Kennedy’s assassination 
approached on Saturday.
Kennedy said he felt a “continued deep-seat­
ed sense of loss” from the deaths of his broth­
ers and other family members.
President Kennedy was assassinated in 
Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963. U.S. Sen. Robert F. 
Kennedy was assassinated in Los Angeles on 
June 6,1968.
Kennedy said that he continued “to be 
inspired by them — their strong appeal to 
bring out really the best in terms of our ideals 
and our values and the importance of trying to 
give something back to the country.”
“They were my heroes,” he said.
Kennedy said his brothers “understood that 
Americans are, I think, their best when they 
are challenged.... I think we all understand 
we’re best when we’re challenged.”
He said John F. Kennedy’s appeal to “higher 
motives and to the best instincts is a driving 
force; in fact, (it) helped to set this country on 
a course.... And I think it’s out there for politi­
cal leaders to be able to appeal to that, and this 
country’s going to be in fine shape.”
His third brother, Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., was 
killed in World War II.
V
EghWire
Student soldiers at 
U. Pitt deploy soon
(U-WIRE) PITTSBURGH — As early 
as next spring, University of Pittsburgh 
students in A Company, a Pennsylvania 
National Guard unit from Pittsburgh, 
could be dodging bullets on the streets 
of Baghdad.
Mobilizing November 14 in Fort 
Hood, Texas, A Company will prepare 
to reinforce the current units involved 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom. A 
Company, a part of the 28th Signal 
Battalion, specializes in providing com­
munications capabilities to the soldiers.
“Most likely, the soldiers would not 
be patrolling,” Company Commander 
Capt. John Prendergast said. However, 
A Company faces the same threats as 
the other soldiers in the theater.
Before flying to Baghdad in the 
spring, the soldiers will undergo 
intense training at Fort Polk, La., where 
they will have a mission rehearsal exer­
cise.
Mimicking the conditions the sol­
diers will likely face in Iraq, the mis- 
sion-rehearsal exercise will feature 
mock terrorist attacks performed by a 
group of specialized soldiers. Some 
Iraqi-Americans may even be paid to 
portray authentic civilians who the sol­
ders may encounter while deployed in 
Iraq.
Communication is essential to a suc­
cessful campaign in Iraq, according to 
Prendergast.
“If the enemy destroys communica­
tions, he can destroy what we are trying 
to accomplish,” Prendergast explained.
A Company will provide a wireless 
voice and data network for Army units 
involved in direct missions, in addition 
to phone, Internet, and video-telecon- 
ferencing capabilities.
“They’re vital to conducting opera­
tions and security,” said Capt. Cory 
Agnell from the Public Affairs Office.
Unfortunately, A Company’s activa­
tion comes at a difficult time for stu­
dent soldiers. Many soldiers have 
already completed two-thirds of a 
semester’s worth of work and are strug­
gling to finish the semester before their 
deployment.
Students from A Company at Pitt 
were able to work with their professors 
to finish work and take finals early to 
ensure that they got credit before they 
left.
“I was really impressed. I didn’t know 
they would be so generous,” 
Prendergast said about the understand­
ing attitudes of professors toward stu­
dents in A Company.
If students aren’t given credit, stu­
dents won’t be able to do anything 
about the work they put into classes 
this fall, Prendergast said.
ACLU holds forum 
on student rights
(U-WIRE) PITTSBURGH — On a 
chilly day in late March this year, 
University of Pittsburgh student and 
activist Katie Emery wanted to express 
her outrage for a war that had just 
begun. Like many others, she went to 
downtown Pittsburgh, where a protest 
was forming on March 20.
“There were older people, students, 
families there — people from all walks 
of life,” Emery recounted.
As the day dragged on, the tension 
between the crowd and the police'grew. 
At about 7 pm, the pressure started to 
come to a head.
“The police began to force us to move 
to the sidewalk. Eventually, they began 
to drag people off the sidewalk and 
arrest them for being on the street,” 
Emery said.
Events like this led students to ask: 
was this legal?
To answer this question, the 
American Civil Liberties Union and the 
Black Action Society held an open 
forum Wednesday evening titled 
“Students and the Police: Your Rights 
and Responsibilities.” The event filled 
Room 207 of David Lawrence Hall to 
standing-room-only capacity, as Emery 
and speakers from the American Civil 
Liberties Union and Black Action 
Society offered their commentary.
The Pitt Police were invited to speak, 
but declined, citing a scheduling con­
flict.
“You need statistics; you need to pre­
pare yourself,” said Pitt Police Chief Tim 
Delaney. “I just can’t devote any time 
right now.”
Delaney added that he encourages 
dialogue between the Pitt police and 
students, not only as a “one-time affair,” 
but annually. He said he frequently 
meets with groups at the beginning of 
the school year, and again at the end, to 
review the year.
One thing that the groups at the 
forum and Delaney agreed on is a need 
for police-student interaction.
Those at the forum also discussed the 
problem of racial profiling.
“Sometimes [profiling] happens 
without you being conscious of it,” 
Marritz said.
“There are lots of organizations that 
have a vested interest in racial profiling. 
We are hoping to work with BAS, vari­
ous Middle Eastern groups and the 
Asian [Student Alliance],” said Sam 
Joel, Pitt’s undergraduate chapter ACLU 
club president.

---------------------------------------------------

Now you can get MOVIES IN MINUTES™ at Movielink,
: leading broadband movie delivery service. Download top quality movie files to 
watch at home or on the road. No subscription, no late fees and no spyware.
COLLEGE.MOVIEUNK.COM
©2003 Movielink, LLC. ^Limited time offer. Terms and conditions apply. See college.movielink.com for details.
% " / . ' ; ' ' j"- , -
2FAST 2FURIOUS © 2003 Universal Studios. All Rights Reserved. DREAMCATCHER © 2003 Warner Bros. U.S., Bermuda & Bahamas © 2003 Village Roadshow Films (BVI) Limited - All Other Territories. 
•> ¦/ ~ "Y...------------,-i.v ''Ynft ------------------------' , ¦ ì______i_______. .. 4 • •*- -
Movielink
Download V olum V oe98,eu and learn how to get 
a FREE Promotional Copy of the CD SOUNDTRACK?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 17, 2003
Hay Kids!
Do yonr Interests include theater, msic. or ait?
Do ya i cons «ne new books immediately?
Woild 17 rather be listening to the newest 
Dimmi CD than working on yon paper?
Pillbox needs a new editor!
Tartan Elections are coming.bintfe^
Good to the last shard
A piece of a brick was thrown through the Starbucks window, breaking it for the second time in the past two weeks. 
“Starbucks is not welcome here” was stenciled with spray paint below the window. The sidewalk was covered with small 
pieces of the glass window.
Students find dining leaves bad taste
DINING, from page A1
Like last year, Penne’s 
International Marketplace was often 
cited by students as one of the worst 
eateries on campus, and the new 
Student Activities-run Andy's scored 
similarly poorly. The Underground, 
Schatz, Ginger’s Deli, and Asiana 
scored highly with students.
Comparing dining locations based 
on ratio of best votes to worst votes, 
Ginger’s Deli, Asiana, and the 
Underground ranked highest. Andy’s 
and Penne’s International 
Marketplace, by this measure, were 
by far the least favorite of establish­
ments on campus, with 3 and 4 votes 
in favor respectively, and 22 and 13 
votes against.
The Original Hot Dog Shop and Si 
Señor were often commented on, but 
with mixed results. The ‘O’ garnered 
15 votes for and 26 against, and Si 
Señor had 10 votes for and 15 
against.
Students often favored Schatz on 
the basis of quantity of food avail­
able.
Most of the complaints about the 
Original Hot Dog Shop centered 
around the greasy and unhealthy 
nature of the food. One student com­
mented on a survey that, “You can 
feel your arteries clogging when you 
eat there.”
Students often called Andy’s over­
priced, and commented on the poor 
quality of the food as well.
Students liked the Underground 
for the variety of food and the “envi­
ronment” projected by the establish­
ment.
In The Tartan’s survey last year, 
students gave ratings below three on 
all items with the exception of por­
tion sizes, and this remained true.
Like previous years, all first-year 
students were required to be on a 
meal plan, though this year they 
could choose among 15 fixed-price 
meal plan options. Upperclassmen 
were offered an expanded meal plan 
schedule as well. This year, 366 stu­
dents purchased upper-class meal 
plans, up from 146 last year. Binstock 
said that this number might double 
again next year; although, in the 
future, meal plan participation might 
rise by the thousands. Binstock 
endorses a plan to require all campus 
residents to have a meal plan. He said 
such a plan is a good idea that is pred­
icated on the success of upperclass­
men's declining balance with their 
meal plans and would give students 
more bang for their buck. Currently, 
more than 1700 students hold meal 
plans. Another 2000 campus resi­
dents, who do not have a private 
kitchen in their living space, do not. 
Parkhurst Manager Jane Fahringer 
said to The Tartan [“Survey reveals 
frustration with dining,” 10/14/02]:
“Having more people on the plan 
could make for either more flexibili­
ty, like fewer block restrictions, or a 
reduction in the cost. But it’s a catch-
22, because we would need addition­
al funding to make improvements to 
entice more students onto the plans.”
This year, Dining Services used 
flexibility to try and get more stu­
dents on the meal plan, offering 18 
meal plans in total, including three 
declining balance-only plans for 
upperclassmen.
Binstock said to The Tartan 
[“Survey reveals frustration with din­
ing,” 10/14/02], “Low meal plan 
enrollment does not show dissatisfac­
tion. People don’t sign up for meal 
plans because they want more flexi­
bility in their dining."
Many universities require much of 
their student body to purchase meal 
plans. Duke University requires all 
campus-housed students to buy 
plans, and Princeton University 
requires first-year and sophomore 
purchase meal plans. Binstock said 
that the trend in top-25 universities is 
towards meal-plan participation 
mandates. He said, though, that 
Carnegie Mellon would not force 
mandatory meal participation on stu­
dents who were not subject to it upon 
entering CMU and that this policy
“A year ago, I 
would’ve [said] that 
there was no need for 
a community dining 
room at Carnegie 
Mellon, but now I am 
convinced there is. ”
— Jane Fahringer
was a change for the future.
“This thing needs to be vetted 
across campus,” said Binstock, noting 
campus dialogue on the issue began 
late last semester and is continuing.
“Clearly we have to reach a point 
when the incremental changes make 
it clear,” he said. Improvements 
include more communal dining 
spaces.
Fahringer said last year that, “A 
year ago, I would’ve [said] that there 
was no need for a community dining 
room at Carnegie Mellon, but now I 
am convinced there is.”
She said last week that the 
increased all-you-care-to-eat meals in 
Schatz and adding tables to the sec­
ond floor of the University Center 
were in keeping with that goal, but 
not the final answer.
Other additions to Dining Services 
since last semester include Andy’s, 
the Grab ‘n’ Go salad bar, and an 
added Saturday brunch in Schatz.
Russell Borum, Student Body 
Dining Committee chair and senior 
ECE major, said that throughout this 
semester, his committee’s i^ain goal
has been communication.
“The number one thing that we’ve 
done is solicit feedback. That’s kind 
of been my mantra from day one,” he 
said. Borum said that the issues of a 
mandatory meal plan and a cafeteria- 
style eatery would be discussed this 
Wednesday in Schatz at 6 pm at an 
open meeting between Dining 
administrators and students. Borum 
said he is in favor of mandatory meal 
plan requirements.
“With only freshmen on the meal 
plan, freshmen are bearing most of 
the burden for dining on campus. I 
believe it should be spread out across 
all four years,” said Borum. He said 
students will feel the same if Dining 
Services can show what he perceives 
as the benefits of a plan that would 
double meal plan participation: more 
vendors, later hours, and a cafeteria- 
style establishment.
Terry Lewis, who cooks the food 
for Penne’s International 
Marketplace during lunchtime, said 
that using fresher ingredients and 
serving food fresher has made it diffi-. 
cult to get all of his work done before 
Penne’s opens at 11 am. He said that 
Dining Services needs another cook 
to help prepare the food for Schatz 
and Penne’s in the morning.
Lewis was recently given a written 
warning because he asked a co-work­
er to help him prepare the food for 
Penne’s on-time one morning, and 
the warning threatened termination 
or suspension if Lewis could not fin­
ish his tasks. The warning noted that 
this was not the first time Lewis had 
trouble finishing on time.
Lewis, who has worked on and off 
amicably with the University since 
1984, said that Parkhurst steps all 
over the contract they have with 
union employees, and that many 
employees decline to speak about 
mistreatment because they fear los­
ing their jobs. Lewis said that he fears 
losing his job, but does not feel that 
he can complete his job up to the 
quality now required, since food is 
required to be prepared from scratch, 
and cooked in smaller portions to a 
higher quality than pace permits. 
Lewis said work conditions he is 
experiencing are worse than any of 
his more than a decade’s work experi­
ence at CMU.
“They don’t have enough labor for 
what they want us to do,” said Lewis. 
“I’ve cooked for [University President 
Jared Cohon]. I’ve cooked for A1 Gore 
when he came through here.”
Lewis has experienced three 
regimes in Dining Services: when 
CMU employed Marriott, when CMU 
employed Parkhurst, and when CMU 
ran Dining itself. He appreciated the 
benefits dining workers had when 
CMU Dining Services ran itself.
“It was a good job to have. We had 
all the University benefits a professor 
had,” he said. Such rights include 
free part-time classes for employees, 
library and fitness facility access, and 
free schooling for^hildren. j
Forum held on diploma format
DIPLOMA from page A1
posed in April for May 2003 diplo­
mas. The feeling from that point 
was that no changes would be made 
without feedback from current stu­
dents,” said Fiore.
“There is a perception that the 
University is trying to pull a fast one 
on us.... There’s distrust,” said Fiore. 
“All students knew [last year] was 
that, a couple weeks before gradua­
tion, their diplomas would be differ­
ent from everything that their advi­
sors, course catalog, online mock- 
ups, etc. had said up to that point.”
One popular suggestion formulat­
ed at the forum was that any 
changes should be grandfathered in, 
so that they would only take effect 
starting with next year’s first-years.
“Regardless of fault, people got 
the wrong impression; therefore 
; these changes should not be imple­
mented on current students,” said 
•Fiore.
* Students voiced several argu­
ments against change at the forums. 
! One was that the undergraduate cat­
alog lists the content of diplomas, 
and that students entering the uni- 
¦ versity under the current catalog or 
previous editions should not be sub­
ject to changes. John Papinchak, 
director of enrollment services, 
pointed out that the University 
reserved the right to edit the content 
of the catalog at any time. “Case law 
has supported other universities in 
removing majors, changing curricu- 
lums, etc.” he said.
Another common complaint was 
that minors are a significant 
achievement that deserve space on 
the diploma. “I came here for the 
general picture; I didn’t come for a 
pretty piece of , paper,” said H&SS
senior Nick Hoffmann.
“To me, CIT is my school,” said 
Jason Smoker, a senior in mechani­
cal engineering who attended the 
second forum. “It is our diploma, so 
it should be what we want.”
Daniel Gilman, student body pres­
ident, pointed out that students take 
courses outside of their home col­
leges, and so professors out of the 
home college are grading the stu­
dents.
One possible issue that the admin­
istration noted was that students 
may want the diploma to be purely 
an attractive document in the future. 
Several students acknowledged that
“Some employers don’t 
recognize Carnegie 
Mellon University, but 
do know the Carnegie 
Institute of 
Technology”
— Teresa Ondrejco
their parents disliked their diplomas 
because they contained too much 
information.
Many students said that they were 
very attached to their home colleges, 
as much as or more so than Carnegie 
Mellon as a whole.
“Some employers don’t recognize 
Carnegie Mellon University, but do 
know the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology,” said senior in mechani­
cal engineering Teresa Ondrejco.
“During Orientation and at 
Convocation [we learned that] your
identity is your school,” said junior 
electrical and computer engineering 
major and Student Senator Steven 
Kling. “College is a very major item 
that’s important.”
“From an institutional perspec­
tive, that argument makes it even 
more important that we only say 
Carnegie Mellon,” said Papinchak.
Some students voiced support for 
the changes, but they were a minori­
ty. Gilman said that of the over thir­
ty phone calls and e-mails he 
received about the changes, only 
three were in support of them or 
neutral.
Students and administrators at 
the forums came up with several 
possible compromises. In one, a stu­
dent's primary major would go on 
the first line of the diploma and the 
student’s choice of a secondary 
major, a minor, or nothing at all 
would go on the second line. 
Further majors or minors would not 
be allowed on the diploma.
“When you’ve got two lines, 
you’ve taken care of most of the peo­
ple,” said Kling. Responding to com­
plaints that most is not everyone, 
Kling said, “you’ve got to cap it 
somewhere.”
Another suggestion was that each 
student decide what information to 
put on his diploma, but Nair said 
that the diplomas had to have some 
uniformity.
Student Senate’s Academic Affairs 
Committee will submit a recommen­
dation to the administration about 
diplomas at the end of the semester.
In response to complaints that stu­
dents were not given enough 
advance notice about the forums, 
student organizers said they would 
consider holding another one in the 
first week of December.
Protesters march on Downtown
Protesters march in downtown Pittsburgh in a throng of about 100 people. People of multiple age groups and social back­
grounds were present for the march.
people denounced the FTAA as an 
organization that would benefit the 
few and hurt the majority. Many pro­
testors were planning on attending 
the larger protest in Miami this 
week. The Thomas Merton Center 
plans to send protesters to Florida as 
well; the number of Pittsburghers 
attending ranges from 200 to 300, 
which was a far larger number than 
those present for today’s event. 
Approximately 100 people attended 
the rally and then marched from the 
Square over to Forbes Avenue and 
down to Market Square. Despite the
interest expressed in the event by 
CMUs Progressive Student Alliance 
and the People for Workers' Rights, 
only four of these protesters were 
CMU students.
“It’s a very young movement, 
many students have been involved. 
People see how global trade agree­
ments could affect their life,” Vining 
said on Friday. Papasian, however, 
disagreed.
“People at CMU tend not to care,” 
he said. “Or at least they tend not to 
be able to get out bed in the morn­
ing.”
PROTEST, from page A1
encourages countries to relax their 
environmental and labor standards,” 
he said. “Short answer — I don’t like 
it.”
The FTAA, he said, would only 
widen the gap between rich and 
poor, and those who were struggling 
would be left behind. This sentiment 
was echoed in the speeches and 
chants of the protesters in Mellon 
Square. Under the sign that pro­
claimed the park the founding site of 
the American Federation of Labor,

---------------------------------------------------

118 Meynan Ave
í ixí-
***** PEPSI
cUl]»3=M*i;MT5
around theQQQJ]
around thecorner
well get you there.
great student fares! %
London................$349
Paris.............,...$405
Rio de Janeiro...$643
New York..........$209
Chicago.............$218
Fare is round trip from Pittsburgh. Subject to 
change and availability. Tax not included. 
Restrictions and blackouts apply.
Packages from Pittsburgh starting at
CALL ¿CiOO 1.800.733.6347
Book before Dec 15th and $avell 
Sell trips, earn cash, travel free!!
Group Discounts
www.BeachLifeVacations.com
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
b'or more information call 412.392.4900 or www.pittsburghsymphony.org
WE'VE BEEN THERE.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
Sorrento's Pizza
Family Owned and Operated since 1976 
Dine In, Carry Out, or Free Delivery!
Delivery Hours: Lunch 11 am - 1:45 pm ($8 minimum) 
Dinner 4 pm -10:30 pm ($6 minimum)
Online Ordering Available at
campusfood.com*
Sorrento's Pizza 
223 Atwood St, Oakland 
(412)621-9129 
Mon. - Fri. 11-11 /Sat. 4*
1 2 Whole 12“
I Italian Hoagies 
and 1 Liter of
Large Traditional 
with 1 Topping
2 Calzones 
only $11.99 +taxi i
Large Veggie Pizza (3 Vegetarian Toppings of 
Yotif Choice)
only $10.50 +tax
16" 12-cut Traditional 
with 1 topping 
plus 1 liter of Coke 
only $9.50 +tax
Two 16" Traditional 
Plain Pizzas 
only $13.50 +tax
Large Meat Pizza 
(3 Toppings of 
Your Choice)I Coke only $10.99^1 OTlly $8.25+tax I | L only $^0.50+tax
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR,- cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
I Zl 1/^1 A Zl I *I III JL B JL JL A JSC JL JL JL
http: 11 www. shadysideinn. com
internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
Mellon Music fosrrEvr
Friday, November 21, 2003 8:00 ©2 
Saturday, November 22, 2003 8:00 ©2
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the heart of the Cultural District
Penderecki Birthday Celebration!
Mariss Jansons, conductor * Julian Rachlin, violin 
SCHUMANN: Symphony No. 3, “Rhenish”
PENDERECKI: Metamorphosen Violin Concerto 
R. STRAUSS: Waltz Sequence No. 2 from Der Rosenkavaiier
Join Mariss, Julian Rachlin and the PS0 as they celebrate Composer 
of the Year Krzysztof Penderecki’s 70th Birthday with Penderecki’s 
haunting Metamorphosen Violin Concerto.
niSpring Break 2004
The Ultimate Experience
Carnegie Mellon U.... 
Uve Ufe the Beach Ufe Way!
For more information, visit http://www.thetartan.org, contact 
managingeditor@thetartan.org, or stop by the newsroom, University Center 314.
Beginning Spring 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------$____________________________________________&__________________________
9-Unit Internship 
Opportunity
The Tartan will offer an internship opportunity in con­
junction with the English Department in the College of 
Humanities & Social Sciences.
The internship is worth 9 units and is open to any stu­
dent who meets the below listed co-requisites or has 
spent a full semester as a Tartan staffwriter.
American Heart 
Association
Co-requisites: Choose one from list
• 76-372 Contemporary Journalism
• 76-271 Intro to Prof. & Tech. Writing
• 76-270 Writing in the Professions
• 76-390 Style
Also eligible, for Pillbox writers only:
• 76-260 Survey of Forms
• 76-294 Interpretive Practices
Series sponsor; - MellonStudent ticket sponsor:
If U M A N I T ! t~. S 
SOCI Al.
i jmjfipr .Hriiuti

---------------------------------------------------

Technology
THE TARTAN17 November 2003
Investigating dark matter and energy
NASA considers CMU physics professor Richard Griffiths’ proposal to create a Dark Universe Observatory
Vol umee 
98,Is1, umIw 
.,m t8sh8
Venter creates a 
replicating virus
by Teh Seng Keat
Staffwriter
J. Craig Venter, the first to 
sequence the human genome, 
announced last Thursday that his 
team at the Institute for Biological 
Energy Alternatives had created a 
working virus in only two weeks.
The researchers, funded in part by 
the Department of Energy, combined 
sequences of nucleotides using a 
technique that Venter has developed 
to create the entire genome of the 
bacteriophage phi X, which infects 
bacteria and hijacks their replication 
system to make copies of itself.
The team’s results will be pub­
lished in upcoming weeks on the 
website of the Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences.
by Kevin Chang
StaffwriterFor years, the mysterious celestial 
phenomena of dark matter and dark 
energy have baffled astrophysicists.
Now, NASA is considering a 
Carnegie Mellon proposal called 
“Dark Universe Observatory” to 
search for clusters of galaxies as one 
of five candidates for its Explorer 
space missions.
Astrophysics professor Richard 
Griffiths is the principal investigator 
of the project, a collaborative effort 
between CMU, the Goddard Space 
Flight Center of Maryland, and the 
Max Planck Institute of Germany.
The Dark Universe Observatory 
project would consist of seven X-ray 
telescopes mounted on a single 
satellite to look for clusters of galax­
ies. Griffiths said the team expects 
to find about 8000 to 10,000 such 
clusters.
The Observatory is also an 
attempt to find out more about dark 
energy and dark matter. “The rea­
son we are searching for clusters of 
galaxies is because they are biggest 
structures of our universe,” said 
Griffiths. “As the largest structures 
of our universe, they have the high­
est potential of being controlled by 
what we know as dark energy and 
dark matter.”
Dark matter makes up ten times 
the amount of matter that normal 
celestial objects do. “We do not 
know exactly what it is,” said 
Griffiths, “but we know that it is a 
type of matter, that it has gravity 
and characteristics usually associat­
ed with matter.”
The issue of dark energy is alto­
gether different.
“[Dark energy] is something we universe was in fact accelerating of about twenty collaborators from the Dark Universe Observatory
know is out there but we don’t know rather than decelerating in its institutions involved in the project. Project will be observing,
what it is at all,” said Griffiths. “It is expansion. Among them is Takamitsu Miyaji, a In those areas exist an estimated
neither matter nor radiation.” “And so the term ‘dark energy" CMU physics researcher; several 120,000 quasars.
Over the last several decades, was coined to explain the entity that proposing scientists from Goddard The project will be using tech-
Griffiths said, researchers have been was causing this acceleration,” said Space Flight Center and the Max nologies that have already been
looking for a deceleration of the Griffiths. “But that is all that we Planck Institute; and theorists from developed, such as X-ray telescope
expansion of the universe, which know — that there is something the University of Illinois and designs from the German ABRAXIS
normally would be caused by gravi- causing the universe to accelerate in Columbia University. satellite and X-ray detector designs
ty. its expansion-—but we have no idea Miyaji would be involved in from the European Space Agency’s
Instead, by looking at supernovas, what it is.” searching for active galactic nuclei
what scientists found was that the Griffiths would be leading a team or quasars in the galaxy clusters that See X-RAY, page A7
CMU to continue green building trend
U.S. Green Building Council awards dorm LEED Silver certification for environmentally-friendly features
~ SI currently under-construction
Collaborative Innovation Center in: V' "i'Km
Panther Hollow and the new build- 
rf. ing next to Posner Hall.°
JMgSherneil Smith, die housefellow
^ for New House, said that even
life ' rnrnmm. beyond the building itself, she hopes
Jh'/' •' ^ v that the students living at New
, m V U V sfHouse could become models for
WfifW environmentalism to the rest of the
- 1 Ed ¿doSRl students at CMU. She is also the
: - coordinator for volunteer activities
l^iHr I at CMU and encourages the building
RAs and the newly formed New 
House Student Council to think 
v,. about their own environmentalism.
‘Sustainable Students, a student
environmental group, holds their 
'• ‘ meetings at New House, and Smith
H ie in* WHHHIW said she hoped that EARTH, another
W I \ environmental group, might begin
Hi meeting at their building as well.
Plans for the future of the building 
' ' ! include creating a garden at the
j back of the building, and permission
RypJ has already been obtained from
Housing for students to begin work- 
S ing on it.
Some of the many other individu- 
B als who made the building possible
||f ' included Jon Jackson from the
B architecture firm Bohlin Cywinski
II Jackson; Peg Han, project coordina-
i^rSI! ^----------------------------------------------------------------------------------^WLM tor for FMS; and Rycon
Jim Puls/Production Manager ~ . . . rConstruction. A representative from
Rebecca Flora, executive director of Pittsburgh’s Green Building Alliance and board member of the U.S. Green Building Rycon said that in order to reach
Council, and University President Jared Cohon unveil the LEED 2.1 Silver certification awarded to the dormitory New certification standards, they had to
House at last Monday’s award ceremony. do more work to dispose of the con­
struction waste than usual. Some of
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------dumped in a landfill. The Forest , guiding hands behind the design, the concrete from the site eventually
by Eli Pousson Stewardship Council certified over construction, and certification of became a garden wall so that it
Comics Staff half of the wood used in the build- New House. would not end up in a landfill.
ing. The air quality is monitored by a “We have one hundred buildings Although New House was the first
web-based system, and the carpet- on this campus,” said Kimbrough, project in which Rycon aimed for
ing was made specifically for the “We saved $25,000 on this building LEED certification, they have since
building using recycled yarn. And compared to a traditional dorm.” become involved in more ongoing
the bond between the 254 first-year “If we saved that much for one green building projects and two of 
residents and the environment is hundred buildings, we would save their staff have become, qualified as
more than just technical — there are $2.5 million dollars,” he said. LEED professionals,
views of the outdoors from 90 per- “That’s one-quarter of our entire Also last week, Pittsburgh hosted
cent of the building. budget.” the U.S. Green Building Council sec-
According to Barb Kviz, environ- During his remarks, Kimbrough ond annual conference. The 5000
mental coordinator for Facilities described the computer-based sys- conference participants were given
Management Services (FMS), New tem that allows students and main- tours of the numerous green build-
House’s washers and dryers are effi- tenance workers to continuously ings in Pittsburgh, including New
cient, saving both water and elec- monitor energy consumption and House, and attended lectures and
tricity. The building even ignores air quality throughout the building. workshops on the latest innovations
the trend of university dormitories New House is CMU’s first LEED- in construction, planning, and
to install suite-style bathrooms certified building. The certification design.
because floor bathrooms promote a of this building was only the start of Due to buildings like the new
stronger sense of community a larger plan for CMU: according to David Lawrence Convention Center,
between the students. Kimbrough, every new building the first green convention center in
Ken Kimbrough, assistant vice CMU constructs will aim for Silver America, Pittsburgh has established
president of FMS, one of the LEED certification, inclining the itself as a leader in green balding.
On November 4, the same day that 
the president of Sri Lanka sent the 
military into the capital, Carnegie 
Mellon and the government of Sri 
Lanka announced the formation of an 
“Information and Communication 
Technology Partnership” to develop 
information/communication tech­
nology practices for the Sri Lankan 
government, agriculture, and indus-
The move to form a partnership 
was spearheaded by Bemardine Dias, 
a research scientist with the 
University’s Robotics Institute, who 
was hired earlier this month to create 
partnerships with developing coun­
tries.
The project provides a possible 
launch point for the Technology 
Peace Corps, a university initiative 
designed to nurture and promote 
technological growth in developing 
countries.
“Given the rapid progress of world­
wide information connectivity and 
growing international economic inte­
gration, we believe a partnership 
with Sri Lanka will offer ongoing ben­
efits for both of us,” said Mark 
Kamlet, CMU provost, in a press 
release. “Our expertise in informa­
tion and communications technolo­
gies can make helpful contributions 
as Sri Lanka develops its own efforts 
in these areas, and our students and 
faculty will enjoy working with cre­
ative collaborators whose culture and 
traditions are different from our 
own.”
“The Sri Lankan ambassador was 
invited to Pittsburgh for an event,” 
said Dias. “He came to Carnegie 
Mellon, and met with the vice provost 
and a bunch of people, including me.” 
Dias, who is from Sri Lanka, pitched 
the idea of a technology partnership 
to the ambassador and got a positive 
response.
Later, Dias was invited to the Sri 
Lankan embassy in Washington, D.C., 
where she spoke with the Science and 
Technology minister. According to 
Dias, the minister was very interest­
ed, and talked about tying a partner­
ship with Carnegie Mellon into the 
ongoing “e-Sri Lanka” movement, 
which the Sri Lankan government 
launched to promote technological 
growth in Sri Lanka and make gov­
ernment more accessible.
After further discussion, Dias and 
Sri Lankan officials came up with a 
political-level agreement to set up an 
information and communication 
technology partnership. Specifically, 
the University will be working with 
the Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Economic 
Reform and Ministry of Science and 
Technology.
“It’s a great way for Carnegie 
Mellon to make a contribution,” Dias 
said.
“With our government ramping up 
the ‘e-Sri Lanka’ initiative, which 
seeks to bring about new economic 
opportunities through the use of 
information technology, the novelty 
that the Technology Peace Corps 
affords will surely boost our plans to 
upgrade IT literacy in all parts of the 
country and help us to benefit from 
global expertise,” said Sri Lankan 
ambassador Devinda Subasinghe in a 
press release.
As part of the project, students at 
Carnegie Mellon will go to Sri Lanka 
and partner with peers at top Sri 
Lankan technology schools. They will 
start a number of projects, many of 
which will be robotics-related, that 
will study how technology can be 
applied to encourage sustainable 
development.
The School of Computer Science 
will be the first to get people into the 
projects, but other CMU colleges will 
participate later.
“The word is out,” said Dias, who 
has gotten mail from a number of 
research institutes in Sri Lanka about 
the project.
“Carnegie Mellon gets a lot out of 
this,” said Dias. “We’re doing cool 
new research, the university gets pub­
licity, and the students and faculty get 
an experience that’s pretty unique.”
In the future, the University may be 
able to expand the Technology Peace 
Corps further into Sri Lanka and 
other developing nations. “We’ll try 
to implement it in a year or so,” said 
Dias.
“The idea is that we’d get students 
at Carnegie Mellon to go to develop­
ing countries around the world,” Dias 
said. For three years, the university 
would send 15 undergraduate and 
five graduate students per year to Sri 
Lanka. In that time, students would 
design and implement a project with 
a Sri Lankan partner, with the intent
Source: USA Today
Chi-Chi’s hepatitis 
outbreak worsens
More than 500 people have 
become ill and three have died in an 
outbreak of hepatitis A linked to a 
Chi-Chi’s restaurant in the Beaver 
Valley Mall, about 25 miles north­
west of Pittsburgh.
Last Thursday, the restaurant 
chain announced that it would be 
taking green onions off the menu at 
all of its 100 restaurants as a precau­
tion.
It is unknown whether contami­
nated green onions were the source 
of the Chi-Chi’s outbreak, but they 
are suspected of being responsible 
for recent hepatitis A infections in 
Georgia, Tennessee, and North 
Carolina.
Hepatitis A is spread by ingesting 
the fecal matter of an infected per­
son.
Michael Preysman/Photo Staff
Richard Griffiths specializes in the research of dark matter and X-ray producing galaxies. Orbiting spacecrafts use tele­
scopes, composed of mirrors like the one above, to analyze regions of space and collect data. Griffiths’ proposal to devel­
op a Dark Universe Observatory is currently under consideration by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Source; Associated Press
No ice sheets at 
moon’s polar caps
Based on new data from the 
Arecibo radar dish in Puerto Rico, 
scientists have found that the ice 
sheets thought to exist in the shad­
owed craters of the moon were most­
ly wishful thinking.
The expectation of ice sheets came 
from two observations: in 1994, the 
spacecraft Clementine bounced 
radio waves into the dark craters and 
found strong echoes, which could 
have indicated the presence of ice 
sheets.
Then in 1998, the Luna Prospector 
detected hydrogen at the moon’s 
poles. Together, these led to the 
hypothesis of massive ice sheets that 
could one day provide water for a 
moon colony.
The researchers used the Areciho 
dish to bounce radio waves off the 
craters in the same way as 
Clementine, but found that they 
received strong echoes even from 
non-shadowed craters, where ice 
could not exist.
This leads them to believe that it 
was actually the “rough, tilted walls” 
of the craters that were producing 
the strong signal.
Source: New Scientist
Plastic could store 
digital memory
A new type of plastic can be used 
to store digital data, reported 
researchers in last Thursday’s issue of 
Nature. The Princeton University and 
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories team 
found that one cubic centimeter of 
their material, composed of silicon 
film and a cheap plastic polymer, 
could store a gigabyte of informa­
tion.
The plastic conducts electricity at 
low voltages, but permanently loses 
its conductivity at high voltages. This 
property allows the material to store 
data: a high-voltage current could be 
applied, blowing some of the plastic 
fuses, which would then be read as 
zeros. The conducting fuses would be 
read as ones.
“The device could probably be 
made cheaply enough that one-time 
use would be the best way to go,” 
says study co-author Stephen 
Forrest, of Princeton.
In front of the audience assem­
bled in the New House lounge last 
Monday, University President Jared 
Cohon accepted a U.S. Green 
Building Council Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) 2.1 Silver certification for 
New House on behalf of the 
University and Housing Services.
The certification makes New 
House the first dormitory building 
in America to be recognized by the 
Green Building rating system.
Site selection, energy consump­
tion, and air quality were only a few 
of the considerations taken into 
account when determining the clas­
sification. To achieve LEED 2.1 
Silver certification, 97.3 percent of 
the waste generated during con­
struction was recyeled rather than
Source: Scientific American
Compiled by 
Karen HoffmannSee PARTNERSHIP, page A7

---------------------------------------------------

Get [good] skin. Get Sleep™
TO AVOID FUTURE LEGAL HASSLES. LET 
ME JUST TELL YOU UP FRONT THAT 
MY SANDWICHES ARE RIDICULOUSLY 
ADDICTIVE AND YOU WILL BE POWERLESS
ONCE UNDER THEIR SPELL.
JIMMY JOHN
JIMMY
JOHNS3444 FORBES AVE. ~ 881.9010 
PITTSBURGH
3896 Bigelow Boulevard • Oakland * Pittsburgh, PA 15213 • (412) 621 -2200 « www.residenceinn.com/pitro
inc. lAKIAñ • lNUVtiVlßtK 1 /, ZUU.Í AIs
(full details on AIO)
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest feel welcome.
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens)
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) 
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius)
Secure Indoor Garage
Dark Universe Observatory under consideration by NASA
Tartan Elections e
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail 
Indoor Pool and Whirlpool 
Fitness Center
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
X-RAY, from page A6
X-ray Multi-Mirror telescope.
Griffiths’ proposal was one of 36 
proposals submitted for NASA’s 
Explorer Program in May of this year. 
The proposal is one of five that NASA 
is considering for further study. 
Griffiths will be receiving a $450,000 
grant from NASA to further develop
the plans of his proposal over the 
next six months.
Of the five proposals being consid­
ered for further study, NASA will 
eventually choose two to be built as 
Small Explorer missions.
“The Small Explorer mission pro­
posals we received show that the sci­
entific community has a lot of innov­
ative ideas on ways to study some of
the most vexing questions in science, 
and to do it on a relatively small bud­
get,” said Ed Weiler, associate admin­
istrator for space science at NASA 
headquarters in Washington, D.C. “It 
was difficult to select only a few from 
among the many great proposals we 
received, but I think the selected pro­
posals have a great chance to really 
push back the frontiers of knowl­
edge,” he said.
“By next October or November, 
we’ll know whether they are actually 
going to build our proposal,” said 
Griffiths. “The launch of the missions 
would be in 2007.”
Griffiths attributed the project’s 
low costs as a prime factor in NASA’s 
selection of the project as one of its 
five candidates for the Explorer pro­
gram.
“The reason we did so well in the 
selection is not simply because the 
science is compelling, but that the 
technologies that we are using are 
relatively inexpensive because they 
have been built before,” said 
Griffiths.
“It’s been quite common for small 
satellites like this to overrun their
budgets,” he said. “There are virtual­
ly no development costs for the pro­
ject, so it has a lower risk in terms of 
overrunning in time or budget.”
In the next six months, he hopes to 
develop detailed engineering designs 
and management plans for the pro­
ject. “We are very optimistic and con­
fident that the project will be success­
ful,” he said.
CMU to 
create “e- 
Sri Lanka”
PARTNERSHIP, from page A6
of transferring the project to the 
partner after a year.
Under that plan, 60 projects would 
get done and Technology Peace 
Corps organizers would find out how 
maintainable projects are. Also, 
undergraduates would get credit 
towards a master’s degree for their 
extra year.
“We are very excited with the con­
cept and the opportunity to partner 
with such a prestigious institution,” 
said Subasinghe.
For the last three decades, the Sri 
Lankan government has been fight­
ing to varying degrees with the rebel 
Tamil Tigers and other smaller 
groups.
“President Chandrika
Kumaratunga sacked the defence, 
interior, and media ministers and 
suspended parliament two weeks 
ago, saying the prime minister had 
compromised security by conceding 
too much to the Tamil Tigers,” 
Pakistan’s Daily Times reported.
The president and prime minister 
are in a constitutional debate over 
who has the right to which agencies 
of government, notably defense.
“The irony is, of course, that both 
leaders believe in a negotiated settle­
ment to the civil war through devolu­
tion of power to the Tamil Tigers — 
they just seem unable to back each 
other,” reported the BBC.
Carnegie Mellon already has edu­
cational partnerships with Taiwan, 
Brazil, and Mexico, and exchange 
programs with numerous other insti­
tutions worldwide.
American Heart Association
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke
Checking your tire pressure is a 
good idea. Checking your blood 
pressure is an even better one. 
High blood pressure greatly 
increases your risk of heart attack 
and stroke. And those are harder 
to deal with than a flat tire.
To learn more, contact your 
nearest American Heart 
Association at 1-800-AHA-USAl 
or online at 
http://www.amhrt.org
Th*s spaa» pwidxl a* » pub!* acrvtos.Amettom Haart Attwoaiiar,
¦ Hill’»
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM 10 WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
ResidenceInn ®
r^Xkarriott

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
17 November 2003
Money, it’s a gas; grab the slots
Iwith both hands and make a stash
Right now, slogging its way through the 
Pennsylvania legislature, is a bill to bring 
slot machines to Pennsylvania. With thou­
sands of PA residents traveling to Delaware, 
West Virginia, and New Jersey to play the 
slots, Governor Ed Rendell, a major support­
er of the idea, has nearly all the right reasons 
to expedite the passage of this piece of legis­
lation. Slot machines at racetracks in PA are 
long overdue, as polls have indicated that a 
strong majority of Pennsylvania residents 
support the idea. One reason is that neigh­
boring states such West Virginia and 
Delaware have allowed slots and video gam­
bling devices at racetracks since the mid- 
’90s. Pennsylvania’s failure to follow has 
resulted in millions of lost tax revenue every 
year from residents traveling to these states 
to play slots and attend horse races. A lack of 
slot machines has thus decreased business 
and attendance at Pennsylvania racetracks 
in general, which results in even more lost 
tax revenue.
Rendell has said that taxes from his slot 
machine plan will generate up to $1 billion 
per year for the state, which could definitely 
help free Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh from 
some dire financial straits. Rendell’s priority 
with the new revenues is to reduce 
Pennsylvania’s hefty school property tax 
rates by a significant 20 percent. Such a tax 
decrease would help improve Pennsylvania’s 
unfavorable business attractiveness rating, 
stimulating positive long-term economic 
gains.
Slot revenue would not bail Pittsburgh out 
of the deep financial hole it is in, but could 
definitely help with some major expenses. 
Using the money to help pay down the $673 
million in airport debt Pittsburgh has 
incurred with U.S. Airways, which burdens 
the city significantly, would be the first pri­
ority. In order to keep the hub at Pittsburgh 
International Airport, the city has been 
asked by USAir to take on $500 million of 
the $673 million debt. Other plans to help 
the city include using the slot revenue 
towards a new arena for the Penguins or a
hotel near the new David Lawrence 
Convention Center.
Fear of turning Pennsylvania into a gam­
bling utopia, which concerns some conserv­
ative Republicans in the state legislature, is 
unfounded. The bill would allow licenses for 
slot machines, not other forms of gambling, 
at up to eight racetracks in Pennsylvania. 
Currently there are only four tracks, though 
more are in the planning stages. The main 
holdup for the bill is whether off-track loca­
tions should be allowed. There is disagree­
ment between the House and Senate ver­
sions. Rendell is in favor of the House ver­
sion that currently provides for up to four 
off-track locations. He adds that most likely 
there will be only two off-track locations: 
one in or near Pittsburgh and one in down­
town Philadelphia.
Despite the dramatically higher tax rev­
enue that locations in Pittsburgh and 
Philadelphia would generate, for now slot 
machines should be limited to only race­
tracks. Legislators should first get their feet 
wet in exploring the possibilities of slot 
machines in our state. There should be no 
rush to drop slot machines in downtown 
Philadelphia or Pittsburgh in a blind effort to 
raise money, however badly that money is 
needed.
Such has been the' sticking point in the 
past; the bill was about to pass-the legisla­
ture in the summer but died after the House 
added off-track locations. This time, the 
compromise must come from the House and 
Rendell. If in the future more people warm 
up to the idea of slot machines at off-track 
locations, the issue can be taken up sepa­
rately. Putting slot machines in 
Pennsylvania’s cities is a separate issue from 
putting them at racetracks. This is because 
having slot machines in Pittsburgh, for 
example, would dramatically alter the image 
of our city. Therefore, the decision should 
not be made in Harrisburg, with the goal of 
increasing the size of the state government, 
but here in Pittsburgh, with the goal of what 
is best for us.
Students beware: Dining’s future 
could take away the right to choose
At the last Student Body Dining 
Committee meeting, students and adminis­
trators discussed the idea of requiring all 
campus residents to participate in the meal 
plan. Neal Binstock, vice president of enroll­
ment, has said that he favors this policy in 
the near future. Under this restrictive policy, 
Parkhurst, the corporation that runs Dining 
Services, would garner double the number 
of meal plan participants it has now under 
the current policy.
Students should be wary of this policy and 
discount the gains that might result from 
such a totalitarian measure. Students might 
very well experience increases in value due 
to the economic savings from buying in bulk 
that could be achieved, but the quasi-free 
market that exists by allowing residential 
students an option is the best way to keep 
Dining Services responsive to its customers, 
as any corporation is.
Carnegie Mellon students from class to 
class have decried the state of dining on 
campus, and this has led Carnegie Mellon to 
offer some improvements to students. 
Parkhurst has committed to using fresher 
ingredients, to serving freshly-cooked food, 
and has installed a popular salad bar. But, if 
at any point students are forced into the 
meal plan, the force of the student voice is 
diminished.
Even if Carnegie Mellon continues to 
'“incrementally improve,” as Binstock has 
•said it has been doing, no amount of quality 
¡justifies entrapment of a market that should 
|be pursued by catering to the customers, 
j Even though this aggregation of expenses 
is showing up at most top-25 universities in 
dining and other services such as laundry, 
Garnegie Mellon’s track record in dining 
should give the University pause when
benchmarking itself against other universi­
ties. The Tartan’s survey of 178 diners on 
campus revealed that over 100 assigned a 
one or two on a five-point scale rating satis­
faction with their meal plan and judging the 
cost of their meals.
If Parkhurst requires a not only spatially 
but economically captive audience, then the 
company is clearly incapable of managing 
the dining needs of the Carnegie Mellon 
community.
A move to required meal plan participa­
tion would likely evolve over the next few 
years, as Dining makes more “incremental 
improvements” and gamers a higher meal 
plan participation that would serve as a 
mandate for greater restriction. Students 
should at every step of Carnegie Mellon’s 
near future make it clear that dining at CMU 
is only acceptable when it can be rejected 
after the first year of college.
Requiring first-years to be on meal plans 
helps to ensure their nutritional needs are 
met, and rightly so. First-years, separated 
from nurturing families and equipped 
kitchens, need infrastructure to support 
them in transition.
This requirement also gives Parkhurst a 
chance to showcase their services. One year 
should suffice for Parkhurst to convince 
future customers to stay with the company. 
Companies dream of keeping the attention 
of their customers; TV infomercials are often 
designed around the principle of a money- 
back guarantee.
Neither Parkhurst, nor CMU, offers such a 
guarantee, and the last thing we need after 
one year of subjection to Parkhurst’s fare is a 
lengthening of the requirement, which car­
ries with it no guarantee of anything but a 
large, uncompromising bill.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon ’s Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON 
Editor-in-Chief
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor 
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager 
JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
CELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor 
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
BARY DUNN, Sports Editor 
NEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager 
CATHY OH, Advertising Co-Manager 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Co-Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
RÜYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
J.T. TROLLMAN, Asst. Photo Editor 
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager 
. CHRISTINA KUNG, Asst. News Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt
* Denotes acting position
THE TARTAN Page A8
Envy not the green of New House
Jim Puls
It started a week and a half ago: I 
returned from a Friday midday trip to the 
Waterfront to find a reporter and a photog­
rapher from The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review 
being escorted around New House. They 
were there to get the early scoop on the 
major unfolding story.
Monday morning, the first floor of the 
building had been transformed into a show­
case containing blueprints, construction 
photos, real-time monitors, and an ampli­
fied podium. It was nicely decorated, with a 
small jungle of plants around the podium 
providing a subliminal clue about the envi­
ronmental focus.
Two days ago, three busloads of visitors 
from the GreenBuild conference were 
paraded around the building with Housing 
officials and representatives of the architec­
ture firm leading a scripted tour.
The reason for all of this fuss? New House 
is now certified as a Leadership in 
Environmental & Energy Design (LEED) 2.1 
Silver building by the United States Green 
Building Council. According to the 
University, it will not be the last one on 
campus: as part of a new commitment to the 
environment, the goal is that every new 
building on campus will achieve LEED certi­
fication.
This is all well and good, except for one 
thing: in this context, a LEED Silver rating 
really doesn’t mean very much.
Had those responsible for planning the 
building been solely worried about the envi­
ronment, they would have made many dras­
tic moves with the building and attained a 
LEED Gold or Platinum certification. 
Thankfully, they weren’t: they were primar­
ily concerned with making a great dormito­
ry.
Rather than blindly congratulate the 
University for getting a shiny silver plaque, 
let us take a look at what special features we
have in New House. This is direct from the 
U.S. Green Building Council’s website: you 
can check it yourself at 
http://www. usgbc. org/Docs/Certified_Projec 
ts/Cert _Reg85.pdf.
The building receives only five of 14 pos­
sible points in the “Sustainable Sites” cate­
gory, but many of the losses were funda­
mentally unavoidable in the project — no 
points for redeveloping a slum or maintain­
ing open space, for example.
In the water and energy categories, 
though, we see the building losing quite a 
few possible points. Many of these are for 
lack of reduction in water and energy usagg; 
in other words, even though the building 
claims to be environmentally friendly, 
they’re not so gung-ho about it that they’d 
be willing to alter the quality of living for the 
building’s residents. No objection here: I 
personally enjoy being able to take nice, hot, 
ten-minute showers every morning and run 
a computer, a stereo system, a half-dozen
See HOUSING, pageAlO
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
Free Trade will enslave individuals
Michael Croland
The Free Trade Area of the Americas 
(FTAA) would expand the North American 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to all 
nations of the Western Hemisphere, except 
Cuba. It would plunder democracy, priva­
tize common services, and further subject 
the world’s population to corporate rule. 
The FTAA will accomplish all these nefari­
ous feats, unless protesters successfully 
impede its formation.
Free trade agreements like NAFTA 
remove power from consumers, populaces, 
and even governments. Instead, they 
empower the corporate elite. They are large­
ly similar components of the same alphabet 
soup, comprising such umbrella groups as 
the World Trade Organization (WTO).
NAFTA took effect in 1994 for the U.S., 
Canada, and Mexico. Under the WTO, only 
countries could sue other countries for eco­
nomic considerations. NAFTA gave corpora­
tions the ability to sue nations that jeopar­
dized profits.
Governments responsibly act against cor­
porate interests when they pass laws bene­
fiting the environment, public health, con­
sumer safety, and workers’ rights. These vir­
tuous laws threaten profit and are thus 
undesirable to corporate interests. Under 
free trade agreements like NAFTA, any cor­
poration can impede beneficial laws to sal­
vage selfish profits.
In 1997, Canada banned MMT, a danger­
ous neurotoxin, but couldn’t keep it away 
for long. The U.S.-based Ethyl Corporation 
sued the Canadian government for profit 
loss and damaged reputation. Because of 
corrupt NAFTA pressure that prioritizes cor­
porate profits, Canada repealed the ban and 
reimbursed Ethyl Corporation for $13 bil­
lion.
“The bottom line is that governments are 
going to think twice before enacting any 
more environmental or public health laws,” 
said Michael Greger in his book Corporate 
Globalization. Governments now consider 
free trade challenges when making laws, 
thus hindering potentially beneficial legisla­
tion. This undermines democracy by remov­
ing power from the people and their elected 
representatives.
Around the world, corporate elite were so 
impressed by NAFTA that they too sought to 
protect their profits against democratic 
laws. They unsuccessfully tried to expand 
NAFTA to the entire world with the 
Multilateral Agreement on Investment 
(MAI). “NAFTA on Steroids,” as Greger 
called the MAI, failed in 1998. It would have 
allowed individual investors to sue govern­
ments and eradicate existing laws at the fed­
eral, state, and local levels.
The MAI failed because it undoubtedly 
went too far: it asked for utter corporate 
control across the globe. A test-case for the 
MAI saw for-profit corporations privatize 
water, transportation, and education ser­
vices in Bolivia. As people urgently need 
water without paying double the price so 
that corporations can profit, people must 
not let the FTAA succeed where the MAI fell 
apart.
If the corporations couldn’t rule the entire 
world with the MAI, then they will tem­
porarily settle for half of it with the FTAA. 
The WTO conceived of the FTAA in 1998 
and seeks to implement it by 2005. It is 
modeled after NAFTA, such that any corpo­
ration in the Western Hemisphere would be 
able to sue governments and disrupt profit- 
impeding laws.
In order to maximize corporate profits, 
the FTAA will screw over anything in its 
path. The FTAA would “force governments 
to give contracts to the lowest bidder with­
out considering fair labor practices, corpo­
rate safety records, or environmental 
responsibility,” according to the People’s 
Consultation on the FTAA, an anti-FTAA 
activist group.
The FTAA would disregard and sacrificeSee FTAA, page A9 ,
Marina Kliger/Assistant Art Editpr

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 17, 2U03
Dean doesn’t 
talk straight
Ben Hackett
Howard Dean’s wave of popularity has swelled 
from an effective grassroots campaign. Many love 
the man, and would love to see him unseat President 
BUsh in the upcoming election.
One might wonder, however, if many of Dean’s 
supporters are following a trend or examining the 
candidate. Dean continues to attack Bush on his eco­
nomic record, but how has Howard Dean done him­
self as the governor of Vermont? The answer, as 
found in a recent Cato Institute study on America’s 
governors, is “poorly.”
The Cato study is based on 17 different measures 
of economic performance, and follows the same for­
mula used in Cato’s previous five mirroring studies. 
Major weight is given to taxes and spending in the 
governors’ respective states.
The obvious emphasis is on cutting taxes and 
reducing spending. Considering these facts, and his 
record, it should be no surprise that Howard Dean 
earned the 8th-lowest overall score and a D letter 
grade.
Dean continues to attack Bush on spending, 
ignoring the mistakes he has made in Vermont, 
which has one of the highest income taxes in the 
nation. In fact, as pointed out in the Cato study, 
Vermont regularly loses jobs and businesses to its 
income-tax-free neighbor, New Hampshire. Adding 
to his low score in the Cato Institute study is Dean’s 
endorsement of state-funded backing of universal 
health care. Were such a system to come into 
fruition, taxes would have to rise, uncontrollably, to 
keep up with rising costs and the basic payment for 
the system.
Dean’s website spouts the rhetoric: “The econom­
ic policies of the Bush Administration are misguid­
ed, unfair, and unsuccessful.”
This and other statements outline his stance on 
Bush’s fiscal policy. But what about Dean’s own pol­
icy? Vermont’s per capita spending increased 32 
percent over the period from 1991-2000. Though 
that is not the worst record of the states, it is not 
exactly cutting spending or demonstrating fiscal 
responsibility either.
On his website, Dean blames the loss of jobs under 
Bush on Bush’s tax cuts. However, the recent surges 
in the economy are being tied to those very tax cuts 
that Dean wishes to pass off as only good for the 
rich, and thwarting progress.
During the third quarter, which ended in 
September, the nation’s economy grew at a 7.2 per­
cent annual rate, its highest growth rate since 1984. 
In November, a Gallup poll indicated that 37 percent 
of people surveyed believed the greatest problems 
today are economic, down from 46 percent last 
month.
Even though many business owners are confident 
that the economic progress is going to be sustained, 
Democrats are still running on their typical cam­
paigns full of doubt and fear, suggesting that the 
economy will drastically downturn in the coming 
months.
Remember, as the libs see it, a worker losing his 
job is good for the Democrats.
Howard Dean, the candidate many party insiders 
consider to be a renegade Democrat, is, in fact, well 
along with the company line. It seems fitting that 
Dean criticizes Bush, and the Bush tax cuts, as he 
does, because Dean raised taxes in his home state. 
Under Dean the cigarette tax, a Democratic favorite, 
rose a whopping 99 (second in the nation) cents. 
Additionally, the gas tax in Vermont was raised 8 
cents, the third highest increase in the nation under 
his tenure.
As a governor, Dean was not only against tax cuts, 
he was the fifth worst in the nation in recommend­
ed tax changes, annually suggesting a 2 percent tax 
hike through 2003. As candidate Dean complains 
about jobs lost, simply point him, and his followers, 
to the fact that Dean was one of only three gover­
nors to hike taxes on corporations during a period of 
economic slowdown. Additionally, Dean earned a 
silver medal in taxation, coming in tied for -second 
highest with top combined income tax rates of 19.3 
percent.
Dean’s attack on job losses during the Bush 
administration’s tenure is interesting when exam­
ined with the hypocrisy of some planks in his candi­
dacy. Dean, a corporate tax raiser, also wants to 
repeal Bush’s personal tax cuts and use the money to 
pay for universal healthcare.
Universal healthcare is a fallacy. Thus, this won- 
derful-sounding utopian endeavor forces the public
See PRESIDENT, page A10
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITERS 
Dan Ceppos, Kevin Chang, Jeannie ’ 
Choi, Joe Elliott, Adam Greenberg, Ben 
Hackett, Colin Holloway, Teh Seng 
Keat, Molly McAshan, Laura Palotie, 
Rachel Papernick, Matt Rado, Brenda 
Reyes, Lauren Sauer, Caleb Stright, 
Evan Sundwick, James Tetlow, 
Katherine Thompson, Preston Treichel, 
Cecilia Westbrook, Dinah Winnick, 
Hannah Yi, Lucas Yiannatji
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, 
Jennifer Keinard, Bridget Lewis, 
Vanessa Shyu
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, Nick 
Marino, Scott Niekum, Eli Pousson, 
Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, Ed Ryan, 
Geoffrey Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan, 
Anthony D’Auria, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Matt Meurer, 
Michael Preysman, Orathai Sukwong, 
David Rush, Mark Rau, Kathy Saye, 
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Helen 
Grüner, Adina Klein, Arthur O’Dwyer, 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, 
Jennifer Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi 
Woo, Mike Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Erin Danehy, Steven 
Goldberg, James Hart, Kirk Higgins, 
Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Alexandra 
Kilduff, Nayema Kuddus, Christina 
Kung, Rebecca Lee, Jared Markowitz, 
Jonathan Mendelson, Will Minton, 
Stephanie Natale, Saagar Patel, Susan 
Peich, Jairan Sadeghi, Christina Shin
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu­
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi­
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to' 
reject or condense any column or political car­
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the, 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright © 2002, 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268: 2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew. emu. edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
The state rewards naiveté with pills 
1we. t,ehamr
Celanie Polanick
FTAA, from page A8
environmental and labor standards. It would 
create a race for the lowest standards to find 
a site best suited for profits. Americans 
already lose a plethora of jobs to Latin 
American factories that can employ workers 
more cheaply; this trend would only sky­
rocket under the FTAA. Additionally, mini­
mum wage and living wage regulations 
could be challenged via a secret tribunal if 
corporations could profit better without 
them.
In short, the FTAA would disregard any 
interests of people and the environment in
order to benefit the corporate elite.
Tens of thousands of protesters are expect­
ed to disrupt the FTAA negotiations in 
Florida this week. Pittsburgh held its own 
protest on Saturday, and many more satellite 
demos are expected throughout the country 
and hemisphere. The FTAA hurts the little 
guy, and protesters opposed to corporate 
globalization hopefully will not be alone in 
Florida. Just two months ago, when the 
WTO tried to further subjugate developing 
nations at a meeting in Mexico, the third- 
world nations walked out on the talks. 
Developing nations, even with corporate 
sway, must again triumph.
Protesters in Florida must try to disrupt 
the FTAA negotiations and garner maximal 
media coverage about this urgent issue. The 
MAI failed because it asked for the world. 
The FTAA encompasses half that territory, 
but it must not succeed in further undermin­
ing democracy, the environment, and labor 
standards.
Michael Croland (mic@) is a junior profes­
sional and creative writing double-major; with 
a minor in religious studies. He agrees with the 
Pittsburgh Organizing Group that the FTAA 
would be “NAFTA on crack,” which isn’t much 
better than “NAFTA on Steroids.”
As if the city of Pittsburgh isn't weird enough already with its massive changes 
in temperature, there was also a malfunctioning 911 emergency system last 
week. We asked readers:A PERSON’S OPINION
If all this wind blew you over and 911 wasn’t working, who would you call and why?
Compiled and photos by Kathy Saye
Karoline Evans
Junior
Chemical Engineering
“If you need a car, truck or van ... 
who you gonna call, maroone!”
Evan Whitmer
First-year
Chemistry
“Professor Mackey because he’s 
strong as shit!”
Katelin Jones
Sophomore 
Professional Writing
“The condom man. He provides great 
protection.”
One-fourth of new STD infections each 
year occur among teenagers, and one in four 
sexually active teens will have had an STD by 
21, according to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. As the most at-risk 
age group, teens need the most comprehen­
sive and educational healthcare available. 
Bad habits in college and later can be the 
result of poor communication and lack of 
trust between teens and their doctors. The 
U.S. has the highest STD rates in the indus­
trialized world, and arguably the most back­
ward healthcare system; for teens, this is 
traumatizing at best and a death sentence at 
worst.
Sex is a touchy subject, especially for 
teenagers and their parents, putting teens at 
the mercy of state-funded clinic healthcare. 
With little pocket money and the need for 
confidentiality, sexually active teens, espe­
cially girls, have few other ways of obtaining 
birth control. A boy can take care of most of 
his sexual health needs by picking up con­
doms at a local drugstore; girls need pelvic 
exams, and for both genders, state-funded 
clinics are the most accessible place to get 
STD testing. However, these clinics can be 
the worst place to get information.
From the ages of 16 to 19,1 made at least a 
dozen visits to several of these clinics around 
Pittsburgh, and each time, the experience 
was about the same; after delivering lectures 
about irresponsible behavior that did not 
-apply, doctors ignored my questions, over­
ruled my wishes, and treated me more like a 
^guinea pig than a patient.
At Children’s Hospital Adolescent Clinic, 
everyone from doctors to receptionists sub­
ject patients to a slew of sales pitches, grind 
them through the research mill, and feed 
them a guilt trip for refusing to take whatev­
er misguided advice best serves the state’s 
agenda. Each appointment — scheduled, not 
walk-in — can take several hours. Patients 
Spend most of that time waiting in the lobby, 
jvhere perky pediatric and psych residents 
with clipboards circle like vultures, trying to 
-fill up the various medical studies they are 
working on.
One such children/adolescent study, Dr. 
Melanie Gold’s Sex Abstinence Feedback and 
Education (SAFE), started this summer, is 
studying 660 area women aged 13-21 over 
the next five years and providing them with 
counseling. Half will attend classes, and half 
will meet with counselors, and all will be 
greeted with abstinence education. One out 
,of twenty Pittsburgh teens became pregnant 
in 1998, and in 2000, the U.S.’s teen preg­
nancy rate was twice as high as in Canada, 
according to the Family Health Council, 
which provides healthcare services to 
100,000 women and families throughout 
western Pennsylvania. Is abstinence educa­
tion going to solve this problem?
Realistically, most of the studies are far 
more chemical in nature. For many of the 
studies, participants must agree to use noth­
ing but a hormonal method of birth control, 
sometimes in tandem with smoking. This is 
no external solicitation — this is an inside 
job. By promoting these studies and whatev­
er risky behavior they require, Children’s 
Hospital is sending mixed messages about 
healthy behavior and accountability.
A more direct sales pitch for injected and 
oral contraceptives happens on the exam 
table, along with a humiliating interrogation
that strips patients’ privacy bare. Before 
beginning my pelvic examination, my doctor 
or nurse-practitioner would whip out a 
lengthy questionnaire about my sexual 
behavior and habits, the number of partners 
I’d had, the kinds of recreational drugs I 
used, and other information no bought-and- 
paid-for doctor has ever asked me for. As I lay 
there spitting out answers, shivering in my 
hospital gown, with my feet up in the stir­
rups as instructed, I wondered if any doctor 
had ever noticed how much the scenario 
resembled a torture chamber. Doctors at 
Children’s Adolescent take advantage of this 
situation to push the state’s agenda of hor­
monal contraception, first endorsing Depo- 
Provera, then birth control pills.
During the pelvic exam, patients are treat­
ed like cattle. One doctor grabbed me and 
began a breast exam without saying a word, 
as if she were judging udders at a county fair.
When the ordeal is over, patients can leave 
without paying — if they’re careful. At the 
front desk, mentioning that the visit is for 
“family planning” takes care of charges
Marina Kliger/Assistant Art Editor
under state programming that provides free 
birth control and testing for sexually trans­
mitted diseases. But patients who simply ask 
a question about an ear infection or another 
non-sex-related ailment are reminded that 
any treatment associated with it will not be 
paid for. Doctors will fill a bushel basket with 
free, state-sponsored artificial hormones, 
but ask them for a generic, five-dollar antibi­
otic and the drug bank is suddenly closed.
If Pittsburgh is liberal enough to install a 
methadone clinic on Route 8 — a possible 
solution to Hampton teens’ heroin problems, 
according to September 24 issue of The 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette — it should be able to 
see past the perceived dangers of acknowl­
edging, and even supporting, teens’ sexuali­
ty. We have a sophisticated and well-funded 
medical research community in this town — 
let’s use it to figure out what teens need from 
their doctors, before an entire generation 
loses faith in the whole profession.
Celanie Polanick (celanie@) welcomes all 
responsible replies to her article.
U.S. will dominate west with FTAA
Rabya Gillani
Sophomore
Electrical and Computer Engineering
“Ghostbusters! It’s that damn marsh­
mallow man’s fault!”
Tyler Crummy
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering 
“412-268-2323”
y

---------------------------------------------------

AioTHE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 17,2003
a18s r8me1n
i
gs rms8s71 i 
ms N1,vgsI
I
PRESIDENT, from page A9
Third parties find nothing but despondency in U.S.
James Auwaerter
Many people would like to see an end to the 
two-party system in the United States. They 
say it encourages polarization of issues, and 
that Republicans and Democrats are equally 
incapable of representing their interests. 
These people tend to gravitate towards third- 
party candidates to satisfy their need to 
change the world. Idealism aside, they usually 
work against their own interests. Third-party 
candidates in the U.S. are doomed to failure.
Let’s start by saying that the Democrats and 
Republicans do polarize issues. Attempting a 
compromise from the start weakens a politi­
cian’s bargaining position.
If a Republican wanted limited drilling in 
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a more 
moderate position than the GOP party line, the 
Republican could not take that position in 
front of Congress because, when dealing with 
the Democrats, the Republican would not be 
congratulated for a more moderate position. 
Instead, the Democrats would demand still 
more concessions. Should the Republican not 
give into those demands, he risks being 
labeled an “obstructionist,” a grave fault in 
politics.
Politicians are expected to legislate some­
thing so that we taxpayers don’t feel like we’re 
wasting our money on their salaries. Unless 
the issue also has a strong moral dimension
(like abortion, or First Amendment rights), or 
the congressperson does an excellent job spin­
ning the decision, they will need to put for­
ward some major legislation or find them­
selves put out of office.
The centrist third-party congressional dele­
gates suffer from the same problems that mod­
erate Republicans and Democrats do. If they 
want to get their version of a bill passed, they 
have to side with whatever party is weaker in 
Congress to move the bill towards the center. If 
the overall power in Congress changes, they 
have to change their position accordingly. 
Besides the havoc this can wreak on their vot­
ing record, it also means that they are reacting 
rather than acting.
If they want to introduce legislation, do they 
start from the middle and risk having the 
Republicans or Democrats pull the bill some 
other way, or try to guess which party will be 
more successful moving it and start from the 
other direction? Trying to out-guess Congress 
means that they’ll look like they’ve sold out to 
the major parties. They run into the same 
problem when the vote comes up and the bill is 
“divisive.” Because third-party constituents 
are already upset with the two biggest parties, 
third-party politicians have to walk a fine line 
between getting things done and staying true 
to their common ideals. The third-party politi­
cians don’t have a machine to fall back on, and 
a population active enough to elect someone 
not of a major party will be active enough to 
kick that person out.
Then we come to the actual third parties 
who believe that the major parties haven’t
gone far enough. Most of these people don’t 
have a fully developed platform, preferring 
instead to focus on an issue that they feel is 
ignored by the Democrats and the 
Republicans. One example would be the 
Timesizing.com Party, currently only regis­
tered in Massachusetts. Their candidate, Phil 
Hyde, ran on a platform of workers’ rights, 
including the use of technology to reduce the 
workweek. He gathered sixteen percent of the 
vote against Joe Kennedy in the U.S. 
Representative race of 1996. Of course, he was 
helped by the lack of a Republican candidate 
— he took the name “The UnKennedy” for a 
reason.
Third-party supporters may point to other 
countries that do have multiple parties com­
peting to control the governing body. The 
greatest difference between those countries 
and the United States is the percent of the pop­
ulation that primarily votes at the national 
level. The United States is perhaps the largest 
democracy where the central government has 
the most influence on its citizens’ day-to-day 
lives.
There are larger democracies — India comes 
to mind —where the village leaders often mat­
ter more than a faraway elected official. In 
India’s case, the'urban population, which is 
more directly affected by the national govern­
ment, makes up less than a third of the total 
population.
Still, third-party candidates have greatly 
affected U.S. elections. For a historical per­
spective, Theodore Roosevelt, upset with 
William Howard Taft receiving the Republican
nomination, ran as part of the Progressive 
Party (nicknamed the Bull Moose Party after 
TR, who described himself “as fit as a bull 
moose”) in 1912. Roosevelt split the conserva­
tive vote in two, receiving more votes than 
Taft, but not more than Woodrow Wilson. The 
Progressive Party merged back into the 
Republicans for the next election, in the same 
way that the Populist Party merged back into 
the Democratic Party almost 20 years before in 
1896.
More recently, H. Ross Perot and Ralph 
Nader tipped the 1992 and 2000 elections to 
the Democrats and the Republicans, respec­
tively. Perot’s Reform Party has nearly implod­
ed, and the Green Party’s popularity went 
through the floor after the Florida debacle. At 
one time, third parties could endorse another 
party’s candidate.
This allowed the party to help a candidate in 
a larger party, and hopefully influence his pol­
icy decisions. Unfortunately, such “fusions” 
were outlawed throughout most of the nation 
in the early part of the twentieth century. 
Today, the more successful third parties are, 
the worse they hurt their cause. All of these 
examples point to one inescapable conclusion 
- third parties elect the people in the major 
parties who are ideologically furthest away 
from them.
James Auwaerter (sensei@cmu.edu) is Copy 
Manager for The Tartan. He would be happy to 
discuss the historical parallels between William 
Jennings Bryan and Howard Dean, and wel­
comes all responsible replies.
New House erected; environment still a problem
HOUSING, from page A8
lamps, and my mini-refrigerator all 
at the same time.
In the materials category, the 
building loses three points because 
it is a new building rather than a 
renovation and the rest were lost., 
according to sources at architecture 
firm Bohlin Cywinski Jackson, due 
to various “green” materials being 
unavailable for the project.
The building gets lots of points for 
Indoor Environment Quality, with 
its recycled materials and advanced 
ventilation systems. Again, though, 
one could argue that this is only a 
side effect of a general desire to
build a comfortable building.
Again and again, it seems as 
though the building’s focus on the 
environment is actually j ust a couple 
of small extra features for a token 
certification. Many of the building’s 
so-called revolutionary features are 
nothing more than simple buying 
choices or the latest technology 
available used in its logical applica­
tion.
Take, for example, the recycled 
carpet. Suddenly, spending the extra 
money to buy something that’s oth­
erwise identical looks like a noble 
earth-hugging pursuit. The same 
applies to the 98 percent rate of 
recycling of construction waste:
waste goes in a dumpster regardless 
of its final destination, and taking 
that dumpster to a recycling plant 
instead of a landfill is independent 
of actually constructing a building. 
All of the environmentally-friendly 
paints and carpet adhesives are 
again nothing more than a buying 
choice.
Similarly, consider the central 
HVAC system that keeps New House 
full of fresh air and at a comfortable 
temperature. Advances over the 
years in the creation of these sys­
tems have brought about a situation 
in which it is relatively easy to effi­
ciently air-condition a new building.
Such a technologically advanced
building should not be seen as such 
an achievement, as it is more a con­
tinued statement of the University’s 
worldwide leadership in technical 
advances.
While I’d never trivialize the fea­
tures of New House to the hundred- 
plus people touring the building for 
the GreenBuild conference, the 
mere fact that the conference was 
touring the building shows how 
CMU is taking the lead in new tech­
nology.
In any case, one environmentally- 
friendly building will not save the 
world. The amount of energy wasted 
by older buildings — fraternities, 
anyone? — more than cancels out
the positive effect of New House. 
The real impact of this building is 
going to be when others see how it 
can be done and do likewise. 
Locally, it means very little.
All in all, it’s clear that the prima­
ry function of New House is to be a 
convenient, comfortable, and social 
place for a good portion of the first- 
year class to call “home.” The whole 
environmental thing? It’s just a dis­
tant second.
Jim Puls (jpuls@) is a resident 
assistant at New House. He’s curious 
as to how the Trib found him enter­
taining enough to use him as the lede 
in their coverage of the ceremony.
belief into one of deserving 
care instead of working for 
Additionally, by focusing on 
bility, Dean misses the boat that 
to launch rather soon on health 
reform. < rt (
Thus, because Dean does not 
champion health care reform, he is 
essentially driving up the costs ,fcjr 
businesses to insure their employee^, 
potentially adding to job losses.
Dean touts his fiscal responsibility 
to his state during his administration, 
championing fairness. However, let 
us examine Dean’s backing of Act 60, 
an act Cato described as “Robiji 
Hood-like”. Act 60 guarantees five 
thousand dollars for each studerrtnn 
each school district. Sounds great, 
right? Wrong. j»_
This act steals funds from some 
communities for redistribution to 
communities unable to mandge 
themselves to a sufficient level. As a 
consequence, these communities 
receiving the subsidy are less likely to 
cut spending or change the way they 
do business, as long as they ,aie 
receiving money for free.
Universal health care, redistribu­
tion of wealth, and taxing corpora­
tions that provide jobs for the public 
typically are planks in the platforms 
of tax-and-spend liberals. Thus,IS 
matter what Dean says, or how lie 
tries to transform himself, Howa^l 
Dean cannot run away from h$> 
record.
Upon playing this Howard Dea?i 
record, one can hear a great t«ee 
describing a great strategy to trasSr 
form this great U.S. economic engSBb 
into France. My advice to the votfij: 
Leave this record on the shelf. ^
Ben Hackett (bhackett@j isvm 
sophomore in social and decision m*- 
ences. He welcomes all responsive 
replies to his articles, as well as half,- 
cocked rants, biting flames, and mid­
night walks on the beach.
Tartan Elections are coming.
8studentrnpotThade'7irgtrTveu
y.r.wtrw«5CdeuKirgtrT DTKtwrlodud
GTmKltggRdfDdKKtTe ktuTe.e1pd7tPK
5PtcTPoDdKKtTe DTKtwr
Your chance to change the world.
12.02.03
http://www.thetartan.org/elections

---------------------------------------------------

IM
NEWS
Administration
Director: Mike Mastoianni x8-2214 
or mma8@
Asst. Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214 or immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 or 
kiryk@
Women’s President: Karoline Evans 
koe@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn
squinn@
Important Dates
Monday, November 17 
playoffs begin.
Soccer
Monday, November 17 —
Racquetball playoffs begin.
Sports in Season
Water Polo — The finals were held 
Wednesday night at the UC Pool. 
The champions were DUI (majors) 
and PiKA Drowning (minors).
Bowling — The finals were held on 
Sunday, November 9 at the PAA. 
The champions were PiKA 1 
(majors), Kappa Sigma (minors), 
and Pioneers A Team (women).
Chess — The finals are scheduled 
for this weekend.
Racquetball — The regular season 
ended Friday. The playoffs start 
tonight. Brackets are available in 
the IM Office.
Soccer — The playoffs start tonight. 
Brackets are available in the IM
Office.
Darts, Team Call Pool, Doubles 
Table Tennis, Foosball — Playoffs 
have started. Brackets are available 
in the IM Office. Please play all 
games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
3-Person Volleyball — The double 
elimination tournament is under­
way.
All Sports Update through
Volleyball
Mens:
1. Beta 1508
2. KDR 1142
3. ACF 850
4. PiKA 700
5. SPIRIT 583 
Womens:
1. Fresh Meat 1483
2. Hoopers 1116
3. ACF 350
nor g8w7h ,g a,.Nwm8m8,v
COLIN, from page A12
playoff berth.
Wild Card: With no team walking 
away with their division right now, 
that leaves a cluster of teams hover­
ing around the 5-4 or 6-3 mark. 
The wild card is tough to call. 
Spurrier’s Redskins won a huge 
game last week at home against
Seattle, but I’ve learned my lesson 
about betting on Washington to 
take a wild-card spot. The Giants 
typically end strong enough to steal 
one, but I don’t expect that to hap­
pen again this year.
I think the teams most likely to 
walk away with a wild card spot are 
the Cowboys, Rams/49ers (whoev­
er doesn’t win that division), the
Seahawks, and the winner of the 
Bucs vs. Packers game. That is the 
pool to choose from, and right now 
the Cowboys and the second place 
finisher of the NFC West have the 
advantage.
Colin Holloway (colinhi®) is a 
senior history major and welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.
SportsShorts
Men’s Swimming
The men’s swimming team 
bounced back from last week’s third- 
place finish at the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational with a dominating win 
over Grove City College Friday night, 
126-84.
Head coach Dave Belowich 
informed his swimmers prior to the 
meet that competition, regardless of 
how good or bad it is, should bring 
out the best in everyone. His words 
must have been absorbed deep into 
the minds of the Tartans on Friday 
night as they took first place in the 
first nine events.
Sophomore Chris Pearson led the 
Tartans with a first-place finish in the 
1000-yard freestyle, while setting a 
pool record with a 9:37.90 time.
Belowich was very pleased with 
first-year Lee McCarthy’s perfor­
mance against Grove City. McCarthy, 
despite having finished fourth in the 
200-yard backstroke, finished with 
an excellent time of 2:09.43 and, 
according to Belowich, has respond­
ed very well to this recent adjustment 
to backstroke.
Belowich was also satisfied with 
first-year David Krzeminski, who 
placed first in the 200-yard butterfly 
with a 1:57.83. Krzeminsld finished 
over twelve seconds earlier than the 
second-place finisher, teammate Will 
Schmitt. Schmitt’s performance, 
nonetheless, was particularly special 
due to his swimming with a cast on
In one of over 30 summer programs throughout the world!
University Divisoti of International Programs Abroad800-251-9674http://summerabroat}.syr,i
Carnegie Mellon
THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 17,2003 Ari
bevv2rwh0w
(Boutique J-fotef Restaurant Martini (Bar
CeCebrate the season at Sunnyiecfge!
Wouldn't it be festive to celebrate the holidays in one of Pittsburgh's most magnificently 
restored historic mansions? Elegantly decorated for the holidays, Sunnyledge is the perfect 
venue for private parties and events for those who enjoy fine dining and impeccable service, as 
well as the architecture and charm of a 19th Century mansion.Novemier ll
Who’s Invited: Students and Alumni from Western 
Pennsylvania Colleges and Universities
Date: Wednesday - November 19,2003
Time: 10:00am - 3:00pm
Location: Carnegie Mellon University
University Center - Rangos Hall Rooms 1,2,3 
Campus of Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
(Dinner Luncheons Afternoon -lea Cocf{tn if Ça I lie rings 
{Private (Dining TaciCities Jlvai(a6Ce
b203 idmrIwpc1sF1 ifAIISUF,TwE i9re 2b0O0 320RLHORbM23 
4uuuR SFss- i1nT1E 7gv
Description: 2nd annual Federal Career Job Fair, with over
40 federal agencies represented, for students 
interested in federal careers, will feature a keynote 
speaker and information sessions with select agencies.
Contact Info: H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management
and Office of Career Services
Registration Email: fed-careerday@andrew.cmu.edu
Web: www.heinz.cmu.edu/fedcareerday
Office: 412-268-2166
Fax: 412-268-6718
Employers will be invited to a Dean’s Breakfast.
Sponsored by:
The Heinz School & Carnegie Mellon University Career Center, The Graduate 
School of Public and International Affairs (GSPIA) & University of Pittsburgh 
Office of Career Services, Duquesne University Career Services Center and 
Carloiv College Career Services. With the Pittsburgh Federal Executive Board 
and the Partnership for Public Sendee.
* IfcOC?P&l)
t. j [ J !I
Bum Lee/Art Editor
November 17 November 18 November 19 November 20 November 21 November 22 November 23 November 24 MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
his arm.
This team, which Belowich claims 
to be perhaps the most talented team 
he has coached at Carnegie Mellon, 
has continued to perform extremely 
well, week after week.
In discussing the strong leadership 
that the team possesses, Belowich 
specifically made mention of the 
eight seniors on the 24-man roster, 
claiming that they have progressed 
annually as a class since their first 
year.
“We have depth in every event,” 
Belowich said. “This year, we are 
much further along [than past years]. 
We are very fit, really focused, and 
have good team chemistry.”
“Everybody’s doing their best,” 
said Belowich, “and that’s just fine by 
me.
Women’s Soccer
“The best CMU women’s soccer 
team ever,” according to head coach 
Heather Kendra, capped their 12-2-4 
season with a come-from-behind vic­
tory to win the ECAC tounament on 
Sunday.
Top-seeded Carnegie Mellon host­
ed their only two games of the tour­
nament as they faced fourth-seeded 
Gwynedd Mercy and sixth-seeded 
Moravian. The Tartans played 
Gwynedd Mercy on Saturday, of 
whom they disposed 2-0 to advance 
to Sunday’s championship game.
The Tartans took the early lead in 
the twentieth minute when sopho­
more midfielder/forward Julie 
Richter contested the ball against the 
Gwynedd Mercy goalkeeper; the ball 
was eventually tipped to sophomore 
forward Hallie Dumont who sent it 
into the net to give the Tartans a 1-0 
lead.
Shortly thereafter, junior goal­
keeper Megan Monroe halted a 
Gwynedd Mercy breakaway opportu­
nity which, according to Kendra, 
shifted all of the momentum in favor 
of the Tartans.
Sophomore back Margaret Beck 
scored off of a Kristin Bevilacqua- 
Linn pass with eight minutes left in 
the contest to secure the Tartan lead 
and send them into the champi­
onship against Moravian.
Despite having outshot Moravian 
10-3, the Tartans were unable to cap­
italize on any opportunities until late 
in the game.
“We never got a solid hold on the 
game,” said Kendra. “Our intensity 
was up and down.”
In the 73rd minute, after Moravian 
had maintained a 1-0 lead for the 
majority of the game, first-year mid­
fielder Ashley McMakin connected 
with Bevilacqua-Linn to put the 
Tartans on the board and tie the 
game at one goal apiece.
Bevilacqua-Linn’s superb play this 
weekend earned her tournament 
MVP honors.
Five minutes following the Tartans’ 
first goal, McMakin sent a corner kick 
toward the net that was finished off 
by Dumont, giving CMU a 2-1 lead 
that would remain unchanged for the 
rest of the contest.
“The game might have gone into 
overtime had [Moravian] never 
scored,” said Kendra. “[Their goal] 
woke us up and we started to play 
really well.”
“Being down 1-0, the girls showed 
a toughness that I have never seen 
before. It’s a great way to finish the 
season.”
Compiled by 
Bary Dunn

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
yw1 1c1,k
Sgk7egS1
9gSIS18Sgs
Cm gr Holloway
How quickly the weeks seem to be 
going by! Not quick enough, howev­
er, for some teams who are hanging 
on to division or wild card leads by a 
thread, hoping for the playoffs to 
start before they choke. For others, 
however, they need all the regular 
season games they can get in order 
to turn their season around. That 
being said it is time to officially 
make some playoff predictions, and 
give a couple of teams to look out for 
in the second half of the season. This 
week I’ll focus on the NFC.
NFC East: Dallas is one of those 
teams wishing the season would just 
end today. If they did so, they would 
win the division again for the first 
time in a while, but with the Eagles- 
breathing down their necks, this 
young team could throw that oppor­
tunity away. The Dallas defense is 
very good, and, while their offense is 
suspect, they can score points. 
However, they are not a better team 
than Philadelphia, who just manage 
to win, no matter how ugly it is.
The Giants are also a threat to 
usurp the Cowboys’ slot, or even 
steal the wild card away from them, 
as New York always manages to 
make some dramatic late-season 
push towards the postseason. I reck­
on that the Cowboys will lose the 
slim lead they hang onto, but will 
fend off the Giants for second in the 
division and a chance at the wild 
card. Philadelphia is starting to win 
games again, and if they can beat 
New York today they can build 
momentum for a division-winning 
push to the end.
NFC West: Another division led by 
a team wishing the season would 
end; the NFC West has seen two 
perennial powerhouses in San 
Francisco and St. Louis relinquish a 
division lead to Seattle. The 49ers 
have lost at least three games that 
stupid mistakes cost them, and are 
much better than their 4-5 record. 
The Rams are tied with the 
Seahawks at the top, and look to be 
building momentum with the return 
of Marshall Faulk and a revitalized 
defense (with the caveat that they 
were revitalized against a woeful 
Ravens offense).
The 49ers’ defense, however, is 
tightening up, and they should be 
able to handle the Steelers on 
Monday night. With Tim Rattay run­
ning the offense again, watch out for 
Owens to have another big game.
The Rams may be the most complete 
team in the division right now, but 
the ’Niners beat them two weeks 
ago, and would have beat them in St. 
Louis had Cedric Wilson not made a 
stupid play. Seattle should not be 
forgotten, but have not proven they 
are capable of winning the big game 
yet. With key division match-ups 
coming up, they need to step it up 
for the remainder of the season.
Look for Seattle to falter enough to 
lose the division to the resurgent 
49ers; the Rams should end up sec­
ond.
NFC South: The Bucs are in dan­
ger of not even making the playoffs, 
and need a tough win over Green 
Bay this week in order to keep that 
hope alive. I predict they will get this 
win — they step up in big game situ­
ations against out-of-division oppo­
nents — but it will not be enough to 
turn this season into a division 
championship.
The Panthers could care less when 
this season ends. They are handling 
their business, particularly in divi­
sion play where they are 5-0 with 
two wins over Tampa Bay. Expect 
Carolina to win the division by 2 or 3 
games, leaving the Saints and Bucs 
to squabble over the remains. In this 
dog fight the Bucs should come out 
on top; the Saints tend to blow the 
season when it comes to December 
and Tampa Bay will be playing with 
their backs against the wall for the 
rest of the year.
NFC North: Just when we all 
thought Favre had worked some of 
his magic again, the Packers blow a 
game at home against the fightin’ 
Eagles. That loss was matched by the 
Vikings fall to the loWly Chargers, 
giving them a 3-game losing streak 
after their 6-0 start. Good thing they 
play in a division with Detroit and 
Chicago, who do not threaten to 
come up from behind.
The two-team race to the finish 
should be won by Minnesota, and 
with the way these teams are playing 
they will need to win the division to 
get into the playoffs. Although Favre 
still has some life in him, the 
Packers’ D can’t get the job done 
when it counts, and that does not 
bode well for teams struggling for a
Page Al2
I See COLIN, page All
17 November 2003 THE TARTAN
Tartans falter in
,Fs Igu8,n DVppS
runners on the Dickinson course. 
Rounding out the scoring for the 
Tartans and also gaining all-regional 
recognition were senior Patrick 
Fisher in 22nd and graduate student 
Mike Rossi in 24th. Jared Markowitz 
(45th) and Chris Carroll (57th) also 
contributed with displacement 
points.
The Tartans finished behind only 
Haverford College in the team stand­
ings, distancing themselves from the 
rest of the 35-team field. CMU 
demonstrated marked improvement 
from their 6th-place finish of a year 
ago.
Coach Dario Donatelli said, “It was 
a total team effort. Everyone stepped 
it up just a little bit — we had seven 
guys who worked together to get us 
to where we needed to be.” Coach 
Donatelli also expressed pride in the 
strength of the UAA conference — 
four of its eight teams made it out of 
their regional meets to qualify for the 
national meet.
End said, “We are happy that we 
did so well at regionals, but we have 
to focus our attention on the Big 
Dance.”
The Tartans will try to place in the 
top sixteen as a team next weekend 
to secure an additional spot for the 
Mideast region at next year’s nation­
al meet.
The national meet appearance 
would be the first for the Carnegie 
Mellon men since 1998.
The women were led by sopho­
more Drea Garvue, who finished 
38th. Nicole Gartner placed 50th, 
Jocelyn Sikora finished in 70th, and 
Maureen Tang was 95th for the 
Tartans.
Carrie Mallozzi (112th), K.J. 
Helmstetter (129th), and Kelly 
Cronin (144th) also ran well.
Mallozzi improved her previous time 
on the Dickinson course by 25 sec­
onds, while Maureen Tang culminat­
ed an impressive first-year campaign 
by cutting 39 seconds from her previ­
ous time.
Garvue missed the regional meet 
last season due to injury, but was 
impressive this time around in lead­
ing the team. The women’s team fin­
ished very close to their standing of a 
year ago despite losing All-American 
Katie Aerni to graduation. The team 
will undoubtedly continue to 
improve as they will return all of 
their top 10 runners for the 2004 
season.
After the race, sophomore Kelly 
Cronin summed up the women’s 
approach.
“We went into the race as a team 
knowing that we would need to work 
together against the tough competi­
tion, and we did that in making it a 
good end to the season,” Cronin said.
With cross country having con­
cluded, the women can start to look 
forward to a promising track season.
The national meet this fall is being 
hosted by Hanover College in 
Indiana. The course bears little 
resemblance to the rugged terrain of 
Schenley Park, and should thus pro­
duce some fast times and exciting 
races.
The starter’s pistol for the men’s 
race will be fired Saturday at noon. 
While the Carnegie Mellon men are 
not among the pre-race favorites, 
they will work as a team to represent 
the Mideast region and their school 
well.
Editor’s Note: Matt Meurer is a pho­
tographer for The Tartan. Jared 
Markowitz is a member of the cross­
country team.
Men’s soccer eliminated in opening game
by Daniel Ceppos
Staffwriter
On Saturday, the fifth-seeded 
Carnegie Mellon men’s soccer team 
suffered a season-ending defeat at 
the hands of the fourteenth-ranked 
John Carroll University Blue Streaks 
at Denison University in the second 
round of the NCAA Division III play­
offs. Field conditions and luck would 
prove to be key factors in the Blue 
Streak victory over the Tartans as the 
game concluded in a 2-1 decision.
The Tartans went on the attack 
early, trying to control play, as had 
been their successful strategy 
throughout most of the season. 
However, on a waterlogged field that 
worsened as the game progressed, 
scoring opportunities were difficult 
to send toward the goal.
Control problems cost Carnegie 
Mellon most on the defensive end. 
John Carroll midfielder Milko Cecez
collected a misplayed ball by Tartan 
defenders and shot it past junior 
goalkeeper Dave Thomas in the thir- 
ty-seventh minute of the first half. 
Thus began Carnegie Mellon’s uphill 
battle.
At the first half’s conclusion, the 
two teams were tied in shots, but the 
Tartans found themselves down by 
one goal in a physically-taxing game. 
The Blue Streaks received two yel­
low cards before the half ended, 
while the Tartans were struggling to 
mount successful attacks.
The one-goal deficit only fueled 
Carnegie Mellon’s determination in 
the second half, as they began con­
trolling play in their opponent’s half 
of the field and desperately trying to 
beat the John Carroll goalie, John 
Garber.
Offensive miscues forced by Blue 
Streak defensive pressure thwarted 
any chances the Tartans put together 
and frustrated the team. Sophomore 
midfielder Dan Mastalski received a
yellow card, which was matched by 
Blue Streak forward Kevin Pap min­
utes later.
“We had our chances,” said Nick 
Gaudioso, Carnegie Mellon head 
coach. “They were a good attacking 
team, but we had our chances.”
Most opportunities were generat­
ed off the six corner kicks Carnegie 
Mellon earned in the second frame, 
but these chances were not enough 
for the Tartans, as John Carroll 
scored the second goal in the 38th 
minute.
It was Cecez again who capitalized 
on Carnegie Mellon’s emphasis on 
attack, sending fellow midfielder 
Dustin Stelmak on a goal-scoring 
breakaway.
The score was then 2-0 and with 
less than fifteen minutes remaining 
the Tartans had their work cut out 
for them.
“There was a point in the second 
half where John Carroll didn’t even 
come across halfway for about 15
minutes,” said junior forward James 
Steidel. “We pressured and pres­
sured but couldn’t get a goal.”
Finally, Carnegie Mellon respond­
ed. Less than three minutes after 
John Carroll pulled in front by two, 
senior Mark Painter broke through 
firing an unassisted shot into the net. 
From there, the match only became 
more intense, and the Tartans 
became more hopeful of continuing 
to the NCAA round of sixteen.
Every minute that passed without 
scoring was a minute closer to the 
end of a very successful season. But 
time ran short on Carnegie Mellon, 
and attempt after attempt could not 
find the goal.
Their best chance came in the last 
minute, when a shot from Steidel 
toward the low post was stopped by 
Garber, who fell on the ball after 
slipping in the mud.
The shot count ended up being 
tied, while Thomas matched Garber 
in saves. John Carroll was called for
16 fouls and three cards while 
Carnegie Mellon only had seven 
fouls and one yellow card. The 
Tartans earned ten corner kicks 
against their opponents’ two. But 
just one statistic would matter, as the 
match ended 2-1 in favor of John 
Carroll.
“We have been very fortunate over 
the years to play so well in the regu­
lar season. Play becomes more diffi­
cult in the playoffs and we have 
always had a tough time,” said 
Gaudioso. “We attacked most of the 
game and tried our best, but the field 
conditions hurt.”
“The season was awesome,” said 
Steidel. “We will definitely miss the 
seniors who will be graduating. I'm 
just sorry that we couldn't pull out a 
win for them.”
Carnegie Mellon’s season ended 
with a 15-2-0 record, which proved 
to be good enough to earn the team 
their fourth straight UAA conference 
championship.
final season game
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
The Tartans entered Rochester 
Saturday with the hopes of taking a 
final regular-season victory into the 
ECAC tournament. However, the 
unstoppable Rochester rushing 
attack and the absence of junior 
starting quarterback Jarrod 
Highberger led to a 21-9 CMU loss.
The loss of Highberger did not 
diminish any of the Tartans’ hopes, 
nonetheless.
“We were all very motivated,” said 
senior wide receiver Chris Kay. 
“They beat us last year to end our 
streak of 27 straight winning sea­
sons, so we were all ready to play.”
The win could most easily be 
attributed to the dominance of the 
Rochester running game. After the 
dust settled, the Yellowjackets had 
accumulated 326 yards on the 
ground, with 206 of those coming 
from running back Gerard Hopkins.
“They have a nice offensive 
attack,” said Tartan head coach 
Richard Lackner. “We had trouble 
stopping their running attack.”
Rochester received the ball first 
and gave CMU a taste of what the 
game would bring.
After a series of successful rushes 
by Hopkins, Rochester quarterback 
Aaron Molisani capped off the open­
ing drive with an 8-yard touchdown 
run. With barely 3 minutes gone by 
in the first quarter, Rochester 
already led 7-0.
Before the end of the first quarter, 
Rochester scored again. On the first 
play of its fourth drive, Rochester
gave the ball to Hopkins and 
watched him prance 65 yards to pay­
dirt, extending the lead to 14-0.
As much as the Tartan offense 
tried to find a spark, it was stagnant 
for the majority of the contest. Each 
successive drive ended unsuccessful­
ly. The Tartan offense fumbled 7 
times, turned the ball over 5 times, 
and totaled a mere 37 yards on its 
first 5 drives. Even on both CMU 
scores, tough play by the defense 
provided good field position.
It is likely that missing the leader­
ship of Highberger affected the 
offense, something the Tartans had­
n’t experienced until Saturday. CMU 
was an astonishing 1 for 10 on third- 
down conversions.
“Jarrod’s knee swelled on Friday 
and he was unable to play,” said 
Lackner. “It’s hard to tell if it morally 
affected the team, but obviously any 
time you lose your starting QB, it’s 
tough.”
Halfway through the second quar­
ter, a short CMU punt gave the 
Yellowjackets the opportunity to 
start on the CMU 34-yard line. 
Shortly thereafter, Molisani found 
Brian Ferris in the end zone for a 10- 
yard touchdown reception to go 
ahead 21-0.
First-year kicker Nathaniel 
Greenstein added a 38-yard field 
goal to close out the half and pulled 
CMU to 21-3.
Unfortunately, the CMU offense 
was unable to make a run in the sec­
ond half, despite the defense’s hav­
ing held Rochester scoreless. 
Turnovers continued to plague the 
team, and the offense still couldn’t 
seem to sustain a decent scoring
o1s SIgv9 Iw1 V8,emSe1 7gF,S1E
Senior running back Ricardo Clarke finds a way to escape from Rochester defenders on Saturday.
drive.
“The defense made some great 
adjustments at halftime,” said Kay. 
“[The offense] just couldn’t pull it all 
together.”
On the first play of the fourth 
quarter, though, CMU culminated a 
44-yard drive with a 2-yard plunge 
by junior fullback Brad Stanley. The 
touchdown put the score at 21-9, 
where it would stay until the final 
seconds expired.
Forced fumbles and hard-nosed 
play allowed the Tartans to stay 
within reach of the Yellowjackets 
until the final minutes.
First-year defensive back Aaron 
Lewis continued his fine play by 
leading all players with 10 tackles 
and junior defensive back Adam 
Wirth added a key interception that 
halted a Rochester drive.
“We made a lot of blitzes on the 
outside,” said senior inside line­
backer Greg Botta. “We just all start­
ed playing a lot harder.”
Offensively for the Tartans, junior 
quarterback Shawn Quinn stepped 
in and threw 11 for 25 for 182 yards. 
Kay and first-year receiver Micah 
Dawson continued their consistent 
play with 5 and 4 receptions, respec­
tively.
This wraps up the season for the 
Tartans, as losing to Rochester put 
all playoff hopes out of reach. 
Lackner believes it is important to 
focus on next year’s improvements.
“We need to have a good recruit­
ing class and our returnees need to 
get stronger in the off-season,” said 
Lackner.
“In the end, we had a great time,” 
said Botta. “We brought a new atti­
tude, and ended up having a pretty 
good year. There are good things to 
come in the future of Carnegie 
Mellon football.”
The women’s cross country team was unable to follow in the footsteps of the men, failing to qualify for the NCAA nationals.
by Jared Markowitz
Junior Staffwriter
This past Saturday, the Carnegie 
Mellon men’s and women’s cross 
country teams competed in the 
Division III Mideast Regional 
Championships.
The meet was hosted by Dickinson
r
College at their home course in 
Carlisle, PA. The men emerged tri­
umphant, smoking favored 
Elizabethtown en route to a second- 
place finish and a coveted spot at 
Division III Nationals next weekend. 
The women placed 11 out of 38 
teams.
On the men’s side, senior Matt 
Meurer led the Tartans with a sev- 
T
enth-place finish. Meurer covered 
the eight-kilometer Dickinson course 
in a CMU record time of 26:11, and 
Will return to cross country Nationals 
for the second straight season after 
qualifying individually last year.
Close on Meurer’s heels were 
sophomores Dana Irrer (8th) and 
Nick End (13th). Irrer’s time was 
among the top five ever for CMU

---------------------------------------------------

• Touchable sculpture,Vivil War soldiers, books «the future, and more...
VOLUME 2. ISSUE 11. 17 NOV
----

---------------------------------------------------

STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITOR 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Andrew Johnson 
Daniel Goldman 
Celanie Polanick 
Neal Shyam 
Jeff Cullers 
Bum Lee 
James Auwaerter 
Jim Puls
Cover by Bum Lee.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS.
Steel city:
4„ CMU ALLIES.
Last Friday’s talent show.
5 o Student composers.
Breaking new musical ground.
6 v ioelDrbenLl rDeE
Books of the future.
c f d Tha'nlDmT eralE
The Civil War gets personal.
8. The Heavenly States.
A new name for a wild band.
9 ? A TROUBADOR ON TRIAL.
Sheryl Crow's greatest hits.
1 O ? To STAY OR NOT TO STAY.
CMU grads bide their time.
12a ’nw damT Vlera Byh.
Dimmu Borgir at Laga.
1 8 ? COMICKAZE.
Captain America.
gf v pralo'rDEStudents played steel drums in Kirr Commons in the University Center last Friday.
page 7: The face of the Civil War.
pillbox. 17 November 2003,,

---------------------------------------------------

Fondle
Gripping sculpture in the Ellis Gallery
Touching, caressing, and cuddling are rarely 
words associated with art, until Professor Carol 
Kumata’s Intimate Objects art class decided to 
make art tangible. The new exhibit is titled 
“Fondle,” and the observers are encouraged to 
do just that, touch and interact with the various 
art pieces. The class will be exhibit their pieces 
in the Ellis Gallery located in on the third floor 
of the CFA building. The exhibit runs through 
November 21.
Junior art and professional writing major 
Julia Bamford’s piece, “Gifts from Friends,” is a 
handmade book that talks about the things, 
both physical and emotional, that people 
acquire from friendship.
“I think that many of these works challenge 
the traditional conception of precious art, an art 
that the view is excluded from participating in,” 
said Bamford.
The show invites the viewer to have a physical 
and often tactile and sensual interaction with 
the works on display, said Bamford, who drew a 
lot of inspiration from Japanese gift-giving cus­
toms when making “Gifts from Friends.”
Senior art major Elizabeth Levin’s piece 
“Overwhelmed” includes 20 five-inch acrylic 
cubes. Each cube has a face on each side paint­
ed in gouache, a thick, water-based paint.
“Each face is of someone I know,” said Levin. 
“It is supposed to allude to the idea of being 
overwhelmed by people you know. The show 
itself is made up of pieces that are made to be 
picked up by the viewer; it’s all about interac­
tion.”
“I will have a piece up called ‘Panic,’ “ said 
Christine Malino, a senior art and biology 
major. “It is multifaceted in what the viewer 
should take away. The piece is a medicine cabi­
net installed above a sink. The cabinet is filled 
with prescription bottles, but few still have any­
thing left in them. When the cabinet is opened, 
the voice of a woman on the verge of a break­
down is heard.”
The viewer is brought into the piece, by 
becoming responsible for the woman, said 
Malino.
“She believes she needs medication to get her 
through this rough time,” she said. “Whether 
the viewer believes the woman actually needs 
the pills or does not contributes to the viewer’s 
state of mind. The viewer’s responsibility is to 
fix the pain this woman is feeling. They don’t 
know her or what has happened to her. 
However, by their interaction with the piece 
they should feel depended upon and panicked 
themselves.”
Junior art major Kate Dowd made a metal
bird’s nest.
“[The] eggs open to reveal a kind of womb­
like environment with red ribbon surrounding a 
tiny baby,” she said. “I think the observer should 
see that interacting with a piece really changes 
ones relationship to the artwork in that they 
become a part of it. Also with interaction there 
is the opportunity for more interpretation since 
the viewer can become so intimate with a 
piece.”
Senior art major Leslie Klasterka rebelled 
against the exhibit’s constraints in some ways.
“I am contributing a small statue of a bird, 
which doesn’t really fit the theme of the show 
because it will be protected under a dome, and 
an origami sculpture that viewers will be 
allowed to tear to pieces,” she said. “The name 
of the show “Fondle” suggests that viewers 
should be careful with the artwork and touch it 
gently, but I went contrary to that idea by mak­
ing my origami piece with the intention that it 
be shredded.”
Above all, the exhibit strives to get »viewers 
involved.
“[Senior Humanities and Arts Scholar] Astrid 
Chow and I are contributing a collaborative 
piece called “You are invited,” said senior BHA 
student Laura Conrad. “The piece is an installa­
tion involving 100 fictitious invitations for a 
variety of crazy events and parties. The idea is 
that viewers are invited to read them, submit 
RSVPs, and in the end, the event with the most 
RSVPs will be thrown.”
SreylDnol ,yht.Thou 
BerAA6DnelD
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
“Baby Nest,” By Kate Dowd.
CARNEGIE ALMANAC
JO YEARS AGO
November 17, 1953 — A student wrote a letter to the editor to 
complain about the danger of guns on campus, especially rifles 
in the hands of ROTC students, who, according to the letter- 
writer, didn’t seem to understand the responsibility of carrying 
a gun. “As I walked across the street from Administration Hall 
to Skibo, I found myself looking down the barrel of an M-l.” 
Tartan editors responded that the writer “should be comforted 
to know that the rifles in question are not only bulietless, but 
are lacking firing pins.”
November 14, 1978 — CMU’s radio station, WRCT, was as eclec­
tic as ever. A program schedule featured programs like Arthur 
Cobb’s "Inspirational Music and CMU Church Happenings,” Dr. 
Snow’s “sparkling, full-bodied blend of new wave, rock & roll, and 
electronic weirdness,” Kevin Kost's “Best Disco in Town,” and 
Rick Segal’s “Music for Amazing America.”
10 YEARS AGO
November 15, 1993 — Then, as now, abortion was a hot topic. 
Pope John Paul II issued an encyclical, a letter to Catholics all 
over the world calling for a return to moral behavior, especially 
regarding reproductive decisions. A student editorial responded 
with the following; “Contrary to the love, and enlightenment 
allegedly promoted by the Church, the Pope would create a world 
of even greater suffering by increasing the population of the plan­
et, especially among the poor, [who are] least able to feed more 
children.”
5 YEARS AGO
November 16, 1998 — Political cartoonist Ted Rail visited 
campus, and spoke in McConomy Auditorium to an enthralled 
audience on current events and the fine art of political resist­
ance through humor. “You major in engineering,” he told them. 
“You’re working for not just the Man — you’re working for the 
Evil Man. There’s still time. Get bad grades. Get expelled.”
1 YEAR AGO
November 18, 2002 — Accidents ruined the weekend’s 
buggy rolls for some unfortunate drivers. Grace Yoon, Phi 
Kappa Theta’s driver, crashed into a parking meter pole at 25 
mph, and received several lacerations to her face. During the 
same weekend, Lucia Crtrynowicz, a driver for the Carnegie 
Involvement Association, caught her right hand inside the 
spoke of the buggy’s front wheel while her buggy was in 
motion, and injured her thumb.
pillbox* 17..November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

At the Allies talent show, an eclectic crowd performed to show support
Allied forces
Song, dance, poetry, and air guitar — on Friday 
night, CMU students got it all.
At 7 pm, ALLIES sponsored a talent show in the 
College of Fine Arts’ Alumni Lounge. The show’s 13 
acts featured students from all schools, either per­
forming as individuals or on behalf of their student 
organizations. The show was well-attended by fellow 
students, friends, and faculty members, all support­
ing ALLIES and their goal.
“[ALLIES] is CMU’s GLBT-straight alliance, 
designed to promote acceptance of the GLBT commu­
nity,” said ALLIES co-president Vijay Jesrani, a sopho­
more history major.
ALLIES is an active group on campus, and works 
with other student organizations to promote better 
relations between straight and GLBT (Gay, Lesbian, 
Bisexual and Transgender) identities.
Each year, ALLIES organizes and hosts an event 
designed to raise money for various awareness caus­
es. Last year, they hosted a date auction. This year, 
the money they raised will go to the Pittsburgh AIDS 
Task Force and also towards bringing Magdalene 
Hsuli, a performer and speaker active in GLBT issues, 
to campus.
“We posted on misc. market, called our friends, and 
basically networked for one and a half months,” 
Jesrani said. “We were successful, and tonight we 
have thirteen awesome acts.”
The crowd inside Alumni Lounge grew steadily 
throughout the night, and chairs were added until 
they reached back to the entrance. The show was 
emceed by Adam Atkinson, a junior English major.
“Tonight, we have more mainstream acts such as a 
cappella groups, but we also want to promote the tal­
ent minority, such as Middle Eastern belly dancers,” 
said Atkinson.
Acts included an a cappella performance of the 
Stone Temple Pilots’ “Interstate Love Song” and ball­
room dance exhibitions, a reading of original poetry, 
Broadway songs, and a popular performance by air- 
guitar band Johnny Ramish And The Blowjobs, who 
sang renditions of Pearl Jam’s “Jeremy” and Nirvana’s 
“Lithium” in matching pink shirts.
Some of the performers decided at the last minute 
to come out and support the cause, without even 
knowing quite what their talent was. “I don’t know 
what I’m doing,” said Andy Jih, a sophomore mathe­
matical sciences major. “I just came to help out. I play
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
guitar, but I’m just going to do covers because I’m not 
original.”
The audience loved him anyway.
dalFro'Dr Sna'8AAu z8onhD BerAA6DnelD
A shared history
The Jewish University Center on Craig Street unites the city’s college campuses in remembrance of Kristallnacht
Last week, the Hillel Jewish University Center of 
Pittsburgh hosted a series of events to commemorate 
the 65th anniversary of Kristallnacht at the University 
of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon. Kristallnacht, or 
“night of glass,” refers to the night of November 9th, 
1938, when throughout Germany mobs of Nazis 
roamed the streets breaking the windows of Jewish 
businesses, injuring and killing Jews, burning syna­
gogues and looting. Kristallnacht represented the 
dark beginning of the anti-Semitic campaign culmi­
nating in the Holocaust.
The commemoration began on the night of Sunday, 
November 9th, at 7 pm with a lecture from author and 
professor Harry Reicher on Kristallnacht and its his­
torical significance. On Monday, there was a public 
glass breaking ceremony at the William Pitt Union on 
the University of Pittsburgh campus, followed by testi­
monies of Kristallnacht survivors. On Wednesday, stu­
dents gathered in the University of Pittsburgh dorm 
Litchfield Towers to watch Agnieszka Holland’s har­
rowing 1990 film Europa Europa, which tells the true 
story of a young Jewish man who was forced to pose 
as a Bolshevik and then as a Nazi to survive the 
Holocaust.
Carnegie Mellon had their own Kristallnacht event
on the afternoon of Friday, November 14th. JUC 
Assistant director Daniel Marcus commended third- 
year design major Mika Larrison’s work organizing 
the event. The actual glass-breaking was ruled out 
because of high winds.
The week culminated on Sunday with a group trip 
to the Holocaust Museum in Washington DC.
Jewish Student Life Coordinator Jackie Braslawsce 
and Senior Jewish Campus Service Corps Fellow 
Caleb Deitch organized the week’s events. Deitch said 
that the purpose of the week’s commemoration of 
Kristallnacht was to “remind people to never let some­
thing like this happen again.”
Deitch emphasized that the intention was to gener­
ate interest in the event and in Hillel itself. “It’s a way 
to involve students who aren’t normally involved in 
Hillel.” In this, the week was quite successful. The 
commemoration of Kristallnacht attracted students 
from a variety of religious and cultural background.
Deitch summarized the week’s events by relating a 
story told by Hillel Interim Director Avrarn Infeld. 
“[Avram’s] father was a physicist, his father’s father 
was a physicist, and so on. So he goes to college to
study physics. There, he meets a beautiful woman 
who is studying to be a Jewish historian. So he ends 
up graduating in Jewish History. When he tells his 
father, his father is upset, not because he was not 
going to be a physicist, but because he was studying 
something called Jewish history. The point is, there is 
no Jewish history. It’s alive. It’s still happening”
Students can get involved to whatever degree they 
choose, said Marcus; for students who want to contin­
ue their Jewish educations in a religious and political 
community, or for students who just want to share 
social events with Jewish peers, the center offers var­
ious meetings, classes, parties and dinners to provide 
as much or as little involvement as students want.
“Hillel is about student ownership,” he said. “The 
Hillel mantra is, ‘It’s yours, it belongs to you.’”
Through Hillel, the JUC sponsors many weekly 
events on both the Carnegie Mellon and University of 
Pittsburgh campuses. Their calendar of events and 
information on how to get involved are available at 
www. hilleljuc. org.
Vhaa? VbdTyrou BerAA6DnelD
4pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

To the beat of a different drummer
Student composers make refreshing musical contributions
Music majors showcased their work 
at the Student Composers’ Concert on 
November 10 in the Kresge Theater in 
the College of Fine Arts. Students 
organize the Student Composers’ 
Concert once per semester, said senior 
music major Mark Fromm, who organ­
ized the past three concerts. The con­
certs are only for chamber music (one 
to five players) written by students in 
the composition department (majors, 
minors, and BHA students, both under­
grad and graduate). This year’s concert 
was smaller, said Fromm, with only 
five pieces; the past two concerts both- 
had 10 or more pieces.
“The composers themselves are 
responsible for finding players for their 
music [who are] almost always student 
music majors or other student musi­
cians, and are responsible for having 
their piece rehearsed and making sure 
it is ready for the concert,” said Fromm.
The Student Composers’ Concerts 
were started in fall of 2000 by other 
composition students who wanted a
venue to have their chamber music 
performed. The CMU Contemporary 
Ensemble also plays student works, but 
usually for larger ensembles (more 
than 5 players). Student composers’ 
concerts are usually smaller, said 
Fromm.
“I think it’s a truly unique experience 
to play original, student-composed 
music,” said second-year history major 
Anusha Balasubramanian, who accom­
panied second-year H&SS interdiscipli­
nary major Matthew Browne on sec­
ond-year SHS student Joshua 
Fishbein’s piece. “It’s rare that you get 
to be the first person to interpret a 
piece, and playing this type of music 
gave me the opportunity to do just 
that. It is also a very rare opportunity 
to be able to have the composer be able 
to tell you exacdy what he wants out of 
the music.”
Often, the composer’s idea of the 
piece is not completely clear, so work- 
shopping the piece is very helpful, said 
Balasubramanian.
“It’s really exciting to be a part of the 
interpretation of a piece — like some­
times my interpretation and Josh’s idea 
wouldn’t exactly match up, and we 
could take bits from each of our ideas 
and put them together,” she said.
Not everyone who participates has to 
be a composition major, said Fishbein, 
opening up the talent pool consider­
ably. Unlike most students who had 
their works performed, Fishbein is a 
music minor.
“I believe that there are a lot of other 
very musically talented non-music 
majors at CMU,” said Fishbein.
“I am always excited when asked to 
play a student composer’s piece,” said 
third-year music major Alison Crossley 
,who played graduate student Daniel 
Mateos Moreno’s composition. “I love 
the idea that the music is fresh, new, 
and no one has ever heard it performed 
before. It is exciting to share the music 
with the audience.”
Working together brought new inspi­
ration, said Fishbein.
“The flute sonata that I had per­
formed at the concert was written 
some time last semester for Anusha, as 
I became used to hearing her practice 
flute in the dorm room across the hall 
from me when I would stop by the 
room in between classes,” said 
Fishbein. “I tried to come up with some 
interesting lyrical melodies on top of 
experimental harmony that was also 
interesting but definitely not atonal. 
For me, composing is like having a lot 
of ideas that I need to somehow shape 
into a coherent piece of music.”
“For [one of my pieces], I wanted to 
put forth the idea that not all modern 
music has to be atonal and hard to 
understand or a rehash of past com­
posers,” said Seth Jones, who played 
the clarinet for second-year humanities 
& arts major Julia Lozos. “I wanted 
people to see that there is really good 
new music out there.”
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
Anusha Balasubramanian plays a piece composed by sophomore Josh Fishbein, 
‘rFlute Sonata #1,” at last Monday’s student composer concert.
SreylDnol ,yht.Thou BerAA6DnelD
REVIEW: 
CMU STUDENT 
COMPOSERS' 
CONCERT
Kresge Theater, CFA 
Monday, November 10
8 PM
Composers’ Concert was a fun and 
refreshing display of the idea that 
classical music does not have to be 
boring, but can be related to every­
day life and appreciated for its vitali­
ty-
Devin Arrington’s “Three Proverbs 
for Trombone Quintet” was particu­
larly boisterous. Arrington’s main 
inspiration for this piece was the 
Book of Proverbs from The Bible. 
Instead of expressing the old, anti­
quated feel of The Bible, Arrington’s 
composition was lively, entertaining, 
and colorful, expressing both the fact 
that the Bible can be interesting and 
that classical music can be entertain­
ing.
Julia Lozos’s “Movement for Solo 
Clarinet” displayed the range of 
music that can be played only with a 
clarinet. The piece had joyous over­
tones, but was full of dramatic and 
difficult playing that showcased the 
talent of the instrumentalist as well 
as the composer.
“Free Tonality for Violin and 
Piano” by Ji-Young Lee was a prime 
example of the different styles that 
can be expressed by classical music.
The piece moved away from some 
of the merriment and went straight 
to the dramatic. The piece was dark, 
foreboding, and deeply emotional.
Their pieces were an eclectic col­
lection of fresh, new classical music.
SreylDnol ,yht.Thou BerAA6DnelD
pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Electronic memories
Interactive artist Masaki Fujihata makes futuristic books
Last Thursday, interactive electronic artist Masaki Fujihata gave a lecture at 
McConomy Auditorium to present his successful works and give insight into the 
future of art. Born in Japan in 1956, Fujihata attended the Tokyo University of Fine 
Arts and Music, where he earned his masters in 1981. Fujihata worked with com­
puter animation and graphic design early in his career, arranging award-winning 
international exhibitions. In 1990, he took a position at Keio University in 
Kanagawa, Japan, where he is currently employed as an associate professor of envi­
ronmental information. Masaki Fujihata was invited to Carnegie Mellon as part of 
the School of Art Lecture Series.
“Fujihata is really an amazing artist,” said Eric Sloss, CFA public relations direc­
tor.
At the lecture, Fujihata showed films of his works and the reactions of their vari­
ous observers while explaining what he did. Although the audience was primarily 
composed of CFA students and professors, Fujihata’s work has a far broader appeal. 
A still evolving artistic genre, interactive electronic art incorporates computer pro­
gramming and graphic design, and makes art a hands-on experience. “Beyond 
Pages”, Fujihata’s best-known work, which established him in the field of interac­
tive art, was originally part of a larger 1995 exhibit entitled “The Future of the Book 
of the Future.” It explored the possible evolution of books and writing. According 
Fujihata, “Beyond Pages” attempted to evaluate the significance of real books as 
opposed to electronic books. Fujihata wanted to emulate the experience of tradi­
tional reading, even adding the sound of a turning page, with electronics. He also 
used technology to control aspects of the room, like a light switch, and a wireless, 
motion-sensitive pen for page turning. “Beyond Pages” is now on exhibit at Wood 
Street Gallery downtown. The exhibit will be open through December 31.
“I tried to organize the functions of a normal book onto a computer to see what 
value a book has,” he said. “It is not normal to flip pages by pen, but people instant­
ly understood how to use [“Beyond Pages”]. [People] cannot use their fingers 
because the texture of the screen will not match the texture of a book.” Fujihata 
also unveiled his current unfinished work, which utilizes video, GPS, and comput­
er programming to create lifelike records of events, surpassing the limitations of 
traditional videotaping. The artist tried to recreate all aspects of the environment 
from a first-person perspective and organize them so the audience could virtually 
walk through the events captured in sequence and in position. Fujihata character­
ized his work as a unifying experience.
“For me, it’s a collective memory. It is a collection of different places and differ­
ent people that I can relive on my computer,” said Fujihata.
Other interactive works presented included “Small Fish” and “Global Interior 
Project #2.” The first was a collaborative effort with musicians Kiyoshi Furukawa 
and Wolfgang Muench in which an animated pond could sense movement of 
objects and observers in the room; subsequently, these movements would be trans­
lated into a musical score. The second work allowed viewers to interact with one 
another in virtual recreations of different rooms in a museum.
“I appreciated all of [Fujihata’s] art, but his latest work was most interesting,” 
said first-year art major Claire Hoch. “It was like a navigational guide through the 
artist’s eyes. It was a virtual memory.”
The School of Art Lecture Series brings successful artists from around the world 
to Carnegie Mellon to speak about their lives and works. The next lecture will be 
given by large-scale figurative oil painter Bruce Erickson on December 4 at 5 pm in 
McConomy.
Pronla pl..hTu BerAA6DnelD
HOROSCOPES.
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21 — April 19): In Thursday’s unexpected snow storm, you will be swept 
up by a gust of wind and taken to a land far, far away in Ohio where you, your dog, and 
your three endearing misfit friends will receive keys to your personal betterment from 
the self-help guru you've traveled so far to meet in magical Toledo.
TAURUS (April 20 — May 20): You will reconsider biking to campus tomorrow when 
your 250-pound body-builder roommate reports being blown over in the wind and 
pinned to the ground by his own body mass, until being rescued by a thoughtful 275- 
pound body-builder.
GEMINI (May 21 — June 21): The frost covering your window tomorrow morning will 
fail to increase your feelings of isolation, since you haven’t looked out your window in 
months anyway, too captivated by your Gamecube, computer monitor, refrigerator door, 
and the back of your roommate's head.
CANCER (June 22 — July 22): Caution: fixating on 
Thanksgiving fantasies of filling up on delicious food that you 
have not had to make yourself may distract you from actually 
eating in the time up to Thanksgiving, limiting the amount of 
food you’ll be able to consume when it finally hits and risking 
implosion in the interim.
LEO (July 23 — August 22): An alluring car commercial you see 
today will mysteriously leave you craving a burger, Coke, Gap 
shopping spree, and the rapid destruction of the world’s natural 
resources.
VIRGO (August 23 — September 22): Despite a deep desire to 
come clean, you will be able to keep the dark secret that your lit­
tle sister has been taping episodes of The OC for you while you’ve 
been away from home. Your feelings of shame and embarrass­
ment over this issue, however, will last a lifetime.
LIBRA (September 23 — October 23): Somehow finally remem­
bering where your winter coat is — on your bed at home in 
Vermont — will not really make you feel any warmer or smarter.
SCORPIO (October 24 — November 21): Though it will not be 
exactly what you were expecting, the Flamenco dance troupe you’ve joined will be quite 
enjoyable, even if you never do get to stand on one leg motionless for hours, eating 
shrimp and looking beautiful.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 — December 21): Your physics 
degree may not be useful in your work at the department store 
men’s wear checkout counter following graduation, but it will 
surely help you achieve your dream of broadcasting your own 
educational sock puppet science show on public television
someday. Not washing your socks, however, will not help you
with either career.
CAPRICORN (December 22 — January 19): Unfortunately the 
astrological powers that I regularly consult regarding your 
future are avoiding the subject. Talk about a bad sign. (Get it?)
AQUARIUS (January 20 — February 18): Injuring your neck in an unfortunate alterca­
tion with a local sports team’s mascot will leave you unable to look up at highway bill­
boards, forcing you to actually make your own beverage purchase decisions for the first 
time since you were illiterate and did not own glasses.
PISCES (February 19 — March 20): Suddenly woken by your alarm for your crack of 
dawn 11 am course registration, you will hurl yourself out of your bed towards your
computer, trip over a stack of empty pizza boxes, and crash to the floor. You will man­
age to type in your course selections by wielding a pencil in your mouth just before slip­
ping into unconsciousness.
pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

A soldier's tale
At the Heinz History Center, a newly-released collection of artifacts puts a personal face on the Civil War
When a prisoner of war comes home, he is besieged 
with requests to tell his story. After over 130 years of 
silence, Civil War soldier Robert Knox Sneden is final­
ly telling his. Sneden’s artwork, one of the most com­
prehensive collections of Civil War artwork in exis­
tence, was released by southern art dealers to the cus­
tody of the Virginia Historical Society in 1994. The 
works are part of “Eye of the Storm: Untold Stories of 
the Civil War,” an exhibit at the Heinz History Center 
in the Strip District, alongside other artifacts that doc­
ument the personal side of the Civil War in western 
Pennsylvania.
Sneden joined the 40th New York Volunteers when 
the war broke out in 1861. When he arrived at the bat­
tlefields of Virginia in 1862, Sneden’s artistic talent 
was discovered, and he was commissioned to serve as 
General Samuel Heintzelman’s mapmaker.
But maps weren’t the only thing Sneden would 
meticulously record. He kept a personal journal, which 
he supplemented with detailed sketches of camps, 
generals, and battles. These were sent home to New 
York only months before his capture by Confederate 
soldiers in 1863. Sneden passed time sketching in two 
notorious prison camps, Pemberton and 
Andersonville, until his release late in 1864. Over five 
hundred of Sneden’s watercolor sketches and over five 
thousand pages of his journals would survive; today, 
96 of his paintings and sketches are on display with a
few of his diary entries at Heinz.
Sneden’s work is accompanied by artifacts and vari­
ous writings of western Pennsylvanians. The exhibit 
highlights their involvement in the Civil War.
“ ‘Eye of the Storm’ is a very unique exhibit that com­
plements the Civil War experiences of western 
Pennsylvanians,” said Megan Tressler, Heinz History 
Center’s communications manager. “It was brought 
here to tell a national story with a local perspective.”
College students from Meadville, PA, joined the 39th 
Regiment of Pennsylvania volunteers at the beginning 
of the war. The “Allegheny College Volunteers” fought 
passionately through the battle of Antietam but none 
would survive the nearby battle of South Mountain. 
Their tattered flag, however, made it home, and is part 
of the exhibit.
The exhibit’s letters are just as evocative. When one 
Pittsburgh native wrote home after battles, he 
described the horrors of the war in detail, but searched 
desperately for a way to be positive. His family would 
be worried, he knew, and would appreciate a token of 
love and survival to accompany his letters. The flowers 
he sent, which still grew after bloody skirmishes on the 
fields, would be preserved through the decades and 
are displayed alongside a letter to his beloved wife.
Other items shown in the exhibit are a letter from 
Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, the largest can­
nonball ever cast (made at the Fort Pitt Foundry), war 
supplies made at the Allegheny Arsenal, a drum, flags, 
letters, diary entries, and portraits of western 
Pennsylvanian regiments and civilians involved in the 
war effort. The Fort Pitt Foundry, which was at one 
point located feet away from the History Center’s cur­
rent location, provided the Union Army with artillery 
and ammunition far superior to that of its Southern 
counterpart.
Colonel Strong Vincent, best known for his coura­
geous leadership over four regiments at Gettysburg, 
was an Erie native. His sword is on view at Heinz for 
the first time outside the Smithsonian Institution.
Other specimens are equally rare. Two plaster life 
masks of President Lincoln are also displayed next to 
one another. One was taken after his inauguration, the 
other, two months before his assassination; the differ­
ence between the two casts demonstrates the war’s toll 
on the man.
Lidia Federspiel of Tampa, Florida visited “Eye of the 
Storm.”
“It surely brings history to life. It is a place every 
tourist and local person should see,” she said.
Robert Knox Sneden’s drawings and diaries were 
compiled in the best-selling books, Eye of the Storm: A 
Civil War Odyssey (The Free Press, 2000) and Images 
from the Storm (The Free Press, 2001). All of Sneden’s 
work on display is part of a nationally touring exhibit 
from the Virginia Historical Society. Many of the local 
artifacts and analyses of the impact of western 
Pennsylvanians on the Civil War are included in a new 
collection of articles published through the Heinz 
History Center titled Industry and Infantry: The Civil 
War in Western Pennsylvania.
“ ‘Eye of the Storm’ really is an amazing record of 
the Civil War,” said Karen Lightell, the History Center’s 
director of marketing. “For any western 
Pennsylvanian, the opportunity to see local connec­
tions with the Civil War is truly fascinating.”
All three books are available in the History Center 
Museum Shop. The Heinz History Center is located on 
Smallman Street in Pittsburgh’s Strip District. 
Admission is free for Carnegie Mellon students and 
$6.00 for adults. “Eye of The Storm: Untold Stories of 
the Civil War” will be open to the public until January 
4, 2004. For more information, contact the Heinz 
History Center at 412.454.6000 or visit their website 
www.pghhistory. org.
Pronla pl..hTu BerAA6DnelD
Courtesy of the Heinz History Center
“Eye of the Storm: Untold Stories of the Civil War,” on display at the Heinz History Center in the Strip District, 
features a life mask of Abraham Lincoln.
pillbox. 17 November 2003.7

---------------------------------------------------

Fluke no more
Free of a poorly-chosen band name and finally signed to a label, The Heavenly States are on their way to the Quiet Storm
On November 20, power rock in Pittsburgh will 
reach a heavenly state. The Californian band The 
Heavenly States — formerly called Fluke Starbucker 
—will be performing at the Quiet Storm Coffeehouse 
in Garfield.
The Heavenly States was formed in 2001 by Ted 
Nesseth, the singer and guitarist of the band.
“We all met through a series of coincidences.... 
[The band members are] from all over the country; 
from Texas, from Minnesota, and from New York,” 
said Nesseth. Two of the four members of the band — 
violinist and keyboardist Genevieve Gagon and 
drummer Jeremy Gagon — are brother and sister.
Before joining the band, bassist John Niles had 
never played the bass before, said Nesseth. Since they 
have always been good friends, Nesseth and the 
Gagons insisted on Niles as the bassist and made him 
learn the bass.
The rest of the musical backgrounds are “pretty 
organic,” as Nesseth puts it.
“For example, I play upside down. I play the guitar 
and I play completely the wrong way you are sup­
posed to,” he said. “So I play left-handed but I play 
right-handed guitar. I take regular guitars but I flip 
them upside down. Everybody has played different 
instruments all their lives.”
Ernie Fosselius — the director of the short film 
Hardware Wars and the creator of the Count series in 
Sesame Street — is going to be directing the band’s 
next video.
Nesseth met Fosselius because Fosselius had 
owned the name “Fluke Starbucker” as part of 
Hardware Wars.
“There was a lawsuit that was threatened upon the 
band, because our [former] name [of Fluke 
Starbucker] was owned by somebody else.... It’s so 
funny,” said Nesseth. “After we changed the name, 
[the makers of Hardware Wars] came to us and said, 
‘We can’t believe you guys changed your name, we 
love you.’ “
When Fosselius offered to do the band’s next video, 
they became fast friends, said Nesseth.
The song lyrics in their last album were all written 
by Nesseth, the Gagon siblings, and Niles.
Nesseth believes that me band members “attract 
the smartest people alive” with their music. A lot of 
bad musicians in the industry become successful, he 
said, but the best don’t always make it.
“The people who are actually really good have dif­
ficulty being heard because they don’t have the right 
publicists,” he said.
Their concert at the Quiet Storm Coffeehouse may 
not be huge, but according to Jonas Moffat, a Quiet 
Storm barista, the Quiet Storm’s concerts are eclectic 
and sometimes attract visitors from colleges in Ohio 
and New York.
“We do mosdy rock or folk, but we do anywhere 
from hip-hop, to funk, to jazz, to rock,” he said. 
“Anything and everyhing, we do.”
Tickets for the performance will be sold at the 
door. The price, to be determined by the band, will 
most likely range from $5 to $7. There is also a $2 fee 
if you would like to bring your own alcohol.
N8?r ’rDrxu PrDjDhht VrorwlD
VOX
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE OFFICIAL VOICE. 
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
Tim has a million souls in his halls
How could it be . thpre * %
if u/e KiH h,fTÎ»1
of dykes.
A
bad?
full
Hey, ‘Negies, yow‘re- 
bO'fiM'
You! re/ bo- fine/, yotv 
blow my mind/, 
Carnegies!!
Carnegie^!! sy?
H&owvw, 
’Vh1SE 8é 
robot 
ranch/!
If by ‘talk to him,’ you mean 
‘make fun of his ancestry on 
Instant Messenger,’ then yes, 
I talked to him.
v*
; ;X
'i*' \J>
'o
Qe**t!f
hawm,Y9 a J1umSw
erner9en cy.
THERE Æ T/SM«DN IN
JlHce
I('sa
°0tdsh0^sn0T,
REVIEW:
TH E H EAVE N LY STATES 
Self-titled DEBUT 
Sept. 2003
After being ignored by labels because of their 
goofy first moniker, Fluke Starbucker, The 
Heavenly States signed with Future Farmer 
Records and released a self-titled album earlier 
this fall. The band hails from the San Francisco 
Bay Area, the rock-and-roll breeding ground 
responsible for much of the revolutionary rock 
of the ’60s.
The Heavenly States seem to be lacking in 
some of the originality and radical newness San 
Francisco rock was originally known for. This 
album contains much of the prepackaged 
punk/power pop sound that has become so suc­
cessful in popular music in recent years. Many of 
the tracks sound as though they could come 
from a Blink 182 or Good Charlotte album, with 
their softened, three-power-chord structures 
that support ear-pleasing melodies and the 
usual lyrics about problems with relationships. 
(This band has both male and female vocalists, 
so both sides of the problem are represented.) 
Songs like “Car Wash” and “Senseless Beauty,” 
whose chorus is “The sex just complicates it,” 
are sometimes rather sophomoric.
To their credit, the band is trying to maintain 
some credibility with songs like “Beyond the 
Great Beyond” with a more introspective indie- 
rock sound. Instead of just surfing the power 
pop wave, they also try to experiment with 
instrumental arrangements unusual for the 
genre, incorporating violins and pianos. The 
opening track, “The Story Of,” has an Irish folk- 
influenced sound reminiscent of the Pogues, but 
with a much more poppy base. Because of these 
attempts to branch out, the album doesn’t fall 
into the three-chord pit of monotony that many 
of this genre tend to get stuck in, and it is a little 
easier to listen to the album as a whole.
The album doesn’t seem to be stuck in just one 
rut, but attempts to dedicate each of its songs to 
a different borrowed sound. Rather than being 
revolutionary, the album is reflective, paying 
homage to its influences.
CDlw ,heelou z8onhD BerAA6DnelD
opillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

tao
The difficult kind
Sheryl Crow is that rare breed of singer-songwriter, the highly-skilled sellout
The Very Best of Cheryl Crow 
A&M Records
Sheryl Crow sings like the kind of woman you’d find 
in a Hell’s Angels bar — not a crusty mama, but the 
hard, slim loner just passing through. That’s her MO 
in the music industry, moving through the last 
decade, releasing solid, bluesy albums. She’s usually 
carrying a weapon too, a pop tune to take her throaty 
vocals to the masses. Her just-released greatest hits 
album may be a hasty tribute, however.
It includes the hit that made her a household name, 
“All I Wanna Do,” from her 1993 debut album Tuesday 
Night Music Club, as well as “Can’t Cry Anymore,” 
“Leaving Las Vegas,” “Strong Enough,” and “Run, 
Baby, Run.” The album also has two songs from her 
next multi-platinum hit, a self-tided album,: “Every 
Day is a Winding Road” and “If It Makes You Happy.” 
Her 1998 release, The Globe Sessions, won her a 
Grammy Best Rock Album, and from it, the “Very Best*’ 
album includes “My Favorite Mistake,” “Anything but 
Down,” and “There Goes the Neighborhood.”
With half of her hits from her debut album, Crow 
may just be going through the motions, since her pop­
ular success has been in a lull for the past 5 years. Her 
career, virtually confined to three albums, pales in 
comparison to rockers of the ‘60s and 70s like Pink 
Floyd, the Beatles, and the Rolling Stones. Even
Nirvana’s more recent career and greatest hits album 
makes an argument against the 10 hits Crow and her 
label have dubbed her “Very Best.” Crow is not the 
rocker that George Harrison is, nor the crooner that 
Stevie Wonder is.
She played with them before making albums of her 
own, but her “greatest hits” cannnot compare. It 
would be a shame if this album accurately described 
Crow’s highest musical achievements, implying that 
her last great album might have been The Globe 
Sessions.
Sheryl Crow’s music has a definite country tinge to 
it, hearkening to her upbringing in rural Montana. 
She’s the type of singer who could sit on a stool with 
an acoustic guitar and rev up a crowd with her 
melodies. The few years of music that Crow has 
encapsulated in her greatest hits have lyrics composed 
of hard irony and poignant metaphors.
She does not, however, have the legacy of a rock 
goddess. She has neither the depth of the Rolling 
Stones, nor the cult following of Pink Floyd, nor the 
mystique of Stevie Nicks. Crow has maintained in her 
career a loyalty to her rhythm and blues background, 
making her distinct from other popular female artists 
of today, like Alanis Morrisette and Tori Amos. She 
started off on pace to take her place among the front 
men of the world’s greatest rockers, but her career at
this point needs another addition, not a measurement 
of things past.
Her greatest hits are enjoyable, but they are nothing 
we haven’t heard before. In an age where people can 
compile mix CDs in the span of minutes, true fans of 
Sheryl Crow will be able to compile this album with 
litde trouble, probably dooming the release to collect 
dust on shelves. And those who don’t compile it from 
their own songs will probably download the songs 
illegally.
Some years down the road, if Crow follows up her 
first three real albums with an illustrious career, sales 
may rev up for this premature release, as a catalogue 
of an artist’s early works. But if that future does not 
exist, then the present is Crow’s failure.
do'Dl6 zhyoThou M'nehD_no_pynlA
Instant pleasure
Rufus Wainwright’s folk dynasty roots don’t keep him from bringing posh, up-to-the-minute sounds Downtown
Want One
DreamWorks Records
Rufus Wainwright is adored by many for his flowing 
melodies, lush arrangements, and silky-smooth 
vocals, and delivers the goods and then some on this 
fall’s album, Want One. From the start, it’s clear that 
Wainwright does not worry about adhering to the 
modern concept of a pop album. Few artists since the 
Beach Boys have attempted to create a record as lavish 
as this one.
The opener, “Oh What a World,” begins with a dis­
tant choir, followed by Wainwright’s mellifluous vocal 
line and a lumbering tuba. Strings and dense vocal 
harmonies soon enter, building in a gradual crescendo 
until nearly three minutes in, when it becomes clear 
that the song is a re-interpretation of Ravel’s Bolero. 
What easily could have come off as a gimmick is 
instead striking and beautiful.
Marius deVries’ production throughout the album is
impeccable. He deftly balances the multitude of 
instruments and allows for a huge range of subtle 
dynamics, something missing from too many modern 
records. There are moments when the textures of the 
album may prove too smooth for some, however; 
garage rock this certainly is not.
Wainwright does not solely opt for dense instru­
mentation, though. “Pretty Things” finds him deliver­
ing a plaintive ballad with only a piano for accompa­
niment. His lyrical style often leans toward the sparse 
and abstract.
On the same track, he sings: “Pretty things, so what 
if I like pretty things / Pretty lies, so what if I like pret­
ty lies / From where you are, to where I am now / I 
need these pretty things, around the planets of our 
phase.”
The tide track features an acoustic guitar and deli­
cate major seventh chords underscored by a booming 
bassline. Wainwright also takes a more direct lyrical
approach, singing “I don’t want, no I really don’t want 
/ To be John Lennon or Leonard Cohen /1 just want to 
be my Dad / With a slight sprinkling of my mother.” 
His father and mother, Loudon Wainwright and Kate 
McGarrigle, were revered folksingers long before 
their son’s career began.
The album is the first of two installments. Its pro­
jected companion, Want Two, will include the rest of 
the tracks recorded for the project, which is devoted 
to what Rufus wants.
Anyone looking for a change of pace from the dis­
torted guitars and gruff vocals populating the radio 
today would do well to check out Want One. There’s 
enough brilliance here to sustain interest for some 
time — or at least until the release of Want Two.
Wainwright is coming to the Byham Theater down­
town November 22nd. Call 412.456.6666 for details.
BelLlo Cha'IlDwu z8onhD BerAA6DnelD
pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

To stay or not to stay
Pittsburgh has trouble keeping its college graduates
Every year like clockwork, the crisp days of August 
bring a new wave of young faces to Pittsburgh for four 
years of hair-pulling midterms and death-like finals. 
And each year, Pittsburgh loses the products of its 
booming educational system to other cities that have 
what students need after college: jobs.
Pittsburgh loses highly-qualified professionals to 
cities such as Seattle, Austin, San Francisco, Boston, 
and Washington, D.C., where many thriving compa­
nies are currently located.
College graduates leave Pittsburgh for cities that 
have thriving job markets, culture, and nightlife.
Corey Layman, a fourth-year public administration 
major at the University of Pittsburgh, founded 
Students For a Younger Pittsburgh (STAY) with Daniel 
Heryer, a junior urban studies major at Pitt, last year. 
The two intended to create a forum for students to dis­
cuss Pittsburgh appeal with local politicians and busi­
ness leaders. STAY has been meeting for a year at local 
coffee shops and restaurants.
“The efforts have gone really well. As far as getting 
students involved in Pittsburgh, it’s slow work. I think 
we are making progress, but it is slow,” said Heryer. 
“Organizationally we have gotten a chapter started at 
Pitt. We have gotten CMU students involved. We’ve 
become a non-profit; we have a grant from [the 
Sprout Fund, a local funding program] to operate for 
the first year.”
IHHk I wasai8B8S8ffiaiwBBBBBWBBH 
Annalisa Schaeffer/Art Staff
STAY has been working to branch out to other local 
campuses, including CMU, Carlow College, Duquesne 
University, and Chatham College. In addition to the 
University of Pittsburgh’s chapter of STAY, two senior 
mechanical engineering majors from CMU, Erin 
Casgren-Pindall and Liz McQuillian, are hoping to 
start a CMU chapter.
But at last Thursday night’s meeting at Crazy Mocha 
coffee shop on Bouquet Street in Oakland, the other 
six attendees were from Pitt.
Casgren-Pindall discovered the group when STAY’S 
members held a table at the CMU Activities Fair. While 
there is no CMU chapter yet, the occasional CMU stu­
dent has been coming to meetings since this past sum­
mer.
Ideally, every local campus would have their own 
chapter, so each chapter could focus on its own cam­
pus, but at the same time work together to maximize 
student involvement. Since STAY’S inception, an early 
objective has been increasing interaction between 
CMU and Pitt, because of their sizes and their proxim­
ity to each other.
Other area schools are also encouraged to investi­
gate STAY and hopefully start their own chapter. 
According to Heryer, having CMU students involved is 
a step in the right direction.
Casgren-Pindall, who has moved often in her life­
time, became interested in the group when she real­
ized she didn’t know much about the city.
“I realized that after I’ve been here for three years, I 
don’t know about anything in Pittsburgh, and I felt 
bad moving away from Pittsburgh not knowing any­
thing about it,” she said. “So I came. People here seem 
to know a lot more about Pittsburgh than I do. They 
seemed to get out a lot more, so I feel more encour­
aged to get out and do things. I voted for the first time, 
because they voted and convinced me that I should 
vote too.”
Some students are interested in the group’s projects, 
but they don’t want to come to meetings, said 
Casgren-Pindall.
They may even express interest in volunteering for 
specific projects at a later date, she said, but they don’t 
often come to meetings just to discuss local concerns.
Hopefully, more people will check out the group 
and Pittsburgh before they leave with out ever really 
knowing the city, said Casgren-Pindall.
“Most people stay on campus a lot.... It perpetuates 
this circle where nobody knows where anything is off- 
campus, so you kind of stay on campus. I go to Squirrel 
Hill and Oakland — that’s about it,” said Casgren-
Pindall.
“I don’t know [Pittsburgh] better, but I can see it 
with a different eye,” said Casgren-Pindall. “I’m less 
likely to say it sucks, more likely to say there’s stuff 
going on. I don’t know all of what it is. It’s not a bad 
city; it’s a good city.”
McQuillan and her roommate Casgren-Pindall are 
trying to make Pittsburgh a home for students, rather 
than a stop on the way to somewhere else. McQuillian 
is from Boston, a big college town that is more accom­
modating to college students, she said.
“We started this organization to represent students 
to those powers that be and to get students involved in 
Pittsburgh and get them interested in staying here,” 
said Heryer.
Casgren-Pindall is one of the 400 people who regis­
tered to vote at this past year’s ‘Vote-A-Palooza’ event. 
STAY worked with, Students Uncensored, a registra­
tion drive that was nonpartisan and encouraged 
Pittsburgh students to get involved with local politics.
As an incentive for voting, voters could avoid a cover 
charge at South Side’s Club Café, North Side’s the 
Allegheny Tavern, and at East Liberty’s the Shadow 
Lounge by simply showing their voting stub. Other 
groups involved in ‘Vote-A-Palooza’ events were Art 
Votes, the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, and Red
10pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Tape Productions.
Heryer said this is a big gain, because voting creates 
a sense of ownership.
“Those 400 people that registered are much more 
involved than they were before in Pittsburgh because 
now some of them are voting for local elections,” he 
said.
STAY, like other projects of Ground Zero Action 
Network, has residents working to improve the quali­
ty of life in Pittsburgh.
Other Ground Zero projects include seeking to 
improve transportation and promote arts and culture 
in the city.
“Ground Zero is basically a network of creative peo­
ple and everybody in it has a project of some sort,” 
said Leyer. “The more visible ones are UV-Loop [a bus 
route that ferries passengers between commercial 
neighborhoods on weekend nights] and FLUX [an arts 
bazaar].”
STAY received their startup for the first year 
through the Sprout Fund, a philanthropic organiza­
tion that gives seed money to passionate creative 
groups who have solutions to shape urban life, arts, 
and culture in western Pennsylvania.
“We have given 74 groups approximately $400,000 
since the group started,” said Matt Hannigan, pro­
gram manager for the Sprout Fund, who graduated 
with a degree in public policy analysis from Carnegie 
Mellon in 2002. He originally hails from Indiana, but 
he said that he’s happy to be in Pittsburgh.
Hannigan, who received his undergraduate degree 
from George Washington University in political sci­
ence and biology, said, “I use to live a few blocks away 
from the Kennedy Center, but I’ve been to the cultural 
center numerous more times in less time.”
Hannigan said that the Sprout Fund arose years ago 
from a result of Jim Rodde/s task force called the 
‘New Idea Factory which aimed at creating new ideas 
for life, work, and play in Allegheny County. The UV- 
loop, FLUX, and Ground Zero are offshoots of that 
original task force.
Iuliana Tanase a first-year CMU graduate student in 
electrical engineering has job interviews coming up, 
but none are for Pittsburgh companies.
Pittsburgh is a very different city than the suburban 
Silicon Valley, California she grew up in, though she 
lived in Romania for ten years before arriving in 
Silicon Valley.
“The lifestyle here is sports and beer-oriented and 
they don’t even have jobs in my field. So, I don’t see 
myself staying here,” said Tanase. “My high school is 
70 percent Asian, so CMU is more like my high school. 
Pittsburgh is not, but it was different. It’s things not 
being open after 5 pm. I grew up in a very suburban
town. Our town was dead. It was very boring, but 
even there, stores were open till eight or nine in the 
suburbs.”
Tanase mentioned the short business hours that are 
common in Downtown.
“In part, I think anyone who comes here within the 
first couple of weeks becomes discouraged from going 
out after 5 pm on almost any day, because they quick­
ly discover if they are out at 5 pm Downtown or wher­
ever, everything closes around them.... Most classes 
don’t end till afternoon so people quickly start invest­
ing their efforts into something they can get a return 
on.”
Pittsburgh is one of many cities fighting to keep its 
valuable assets, young professionals, in the area, 
because when a company picks a headquarters, they 
tend to go where there will already be a sizable pool 
of hard-working, highly-qualified workers.
Sadly, students do not often translate to workers.
Tanase has a couple of interviews lined up in New 
York and the West Coast. If she ended up there, she 
would follow the footsteps of her friends from CMU 
who ended up in San Francisco, Silicon Valley, 
Washington, D.C., New York, and Boston.
Tanase questions Pittsburgh spending vast amounts 
of money on new stadiums.
“Somehow, I don’t feel building huge stadiums 
makes perfect sense,” she said. “I’m sure there’s other 
things you can invest in.”
San Yang, a junior studying electrical and computer 
engineering, has lived in three countries, three U.S. 
regions, and one Canadian province. He has been 
moving since he left China for Montreal at age six. He 
lived for five years in Montreal, five years in Boston, 
and then lived in Houston before arriving to 
Pittsburgh.
Though MIT was Yang’s first choice, he is happy to 
be at CMU. For him, location isn’t near as important as 
education is. He said that that in general his occasion­
al relocations didn’t faze him. He didn’t choose to 
come to Pittsburgh; he chose to come to Carnegie 
Mellon.
“I didn’t really care about the city. I don’t think I was 
in the position to really make a choice. The school is 
more important to me. Now, if I had a gazillion choic­
es, I would have picked California,” he said. Yang will 
likely depart Pittsburgh after graduation.
“I’m never really attached to any physical area. I 
don’t really feel like there’s a need for me to like any­
thing. Generally, the Northenast of the U.S., I think, is 
a really cool place. There’s a lot of culture, everyone is 
pretty cultured in the ways of the world,” he said.
Yang sees the flight of students from Pittsburgh 
from Pittsburgh differently than the STAY organizers
do. He thinks that the solution may run deeper than 
just introducing students to the city.
“If a group of people work hard for a while and 
accept a lower standard of living, life will be better in 
the long run. And I think Pittsburgh, like Canada, is 
more of a laid-back place where people don’t work as 
hard as maybe people in New York City. So, if they 
don’t like the standard of living or the environment 
here they can either work hard and live somewhere 
else, or work harder and accept a lower standard of 
living here in hopes in the future everything will be 
better,” he said.
A little over a month ago, local members of 
Pittsburgh’s economic development community and 
the Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education organ­
ized a “CollegeCity” weekend, which aimed at getting 
thousands of students from local colleges into 
Downtown.
An October 3 Post-Gazette article mentioned that. 
Pittsburgh has an impressive college presence.
“It’s the sixth largest concentration of college stu­
dents in America, according a recent survey,” co-pro­
ducer C. Prentiss Orr told the Post-Gazette. “They 
rarely go Downtown ... and about 12 percent of them 
stay in Pittsburgh after graduating.”
Despite the modest goal of attracting 15,000 stu­
dents to Downtown, the October 6 article from the 
Pitt News reported, “Despite the events’ promotion, 
turnout was low.”
iTDrla C8xtrou BerAA6DnelD 0
Israel Guzman/Staffwriter
STAY members met last Thursday night at Crazy 
Mocha cofee shop in Oakland.
pillbox. 17 November 2003.11

---------------------------------------------------

Big Al’s Metal Shop
Dimmu Borgir blows Laga away
Dimmu Borgir 
Death Cult Armageddon 
Nuclear Blast America
Peanut butter and chocolate. Denim and leather. 
Black metal and classical music. All of these are just 
better together. Or at least that’s what the darlings of 
the corpse-paint set are hoping.
By introducing symphonic arrangements as a com­
plement to their fury, DB have entered into less-than- 
virgin territory. Yes, Metallica recorded (or re-record­
ed) with the San Francisco Orchestra, as did the 
Scorpions with the Berlin Orchestra.
And yes, the concept of introducing the two genres 
to one another is an intriguing one. But, I would argue 
that metal and classical are perhaps distant cousins 
rather than polar opposites.
Both have bombastic highs (Beethoven, Wagner, 
etc.) and eerily silent lows. Both are judged on the 
quality of the composition. Both require a balance of
technical precision and a “looseness” in interpreta­
tion, although precision more often than not over­
whelms free-form interpretation in classical.
It is really in this third similarity that the success of 
the intermingling of both genres should be judged. 
Live, almost all metal genres are too raw and loose to 
work well with classical.
So, while the Scorps and Metallica are excellent 
songwriters, the looseness in their live playing con­
flicts with the rigidity of the orchestra behind them. 
This is what made their live-symphonic discs less suc­
cessful than one would have hoped. Black metal, on 
the other hand, is the rare sub-genre that demands 
rigidity in both composition and interpretation.
This stricter form, and the added drama of the 
Northern mythology, allows both musical genres to 
sync up perfectly. What is done with this better 
matching of styles is left up to the skill of the groups 
involved — and Dimmu along with the Prague 
Symphony Orchestra show us a tantalizing taste of
the future...
“...Armageddon,” as one would expect with any 
classical piece, is an epic that takes the listener on a 
voyage through a decorated soundscape, except that 
the background vibrations, the aural colors painted 
behind your eyes, the lyrics imprinted on your ears, 
all share a darkness that is ugly and alluring.
The classical instruments are simply woven into this 
darkness. Case in point is the opening to “Progenies of 
the Great Apocalypse.” Opening in the key of a 
Williams-esque score, the song segues into galloping 
guitars wrapped around a battle of string and percus­
sion.
All the while, there is no sense of musical alienation 
to speak of. Just beauty with little light to illuminate 
it. In truth, all of the tracks have this grayness to 
them. “Lepers Among Us,” for example, kicks off with 
a barrage of drums signaling the commencement of 
the war that follows.
But the next song, “Blood Hunger Doctrine,” is an 
empty space with guitars swirling about, a less-than- 
vulgar display of power.
This constant juxtaposition of light and shade is cre­
ated with a sense of sincerity, instead of shock value, 
and works incredibly well to Dimmu’s advantage. In 
every song, they allow the symphony to work with 
them instead of in competition for the listener’s atten­
tion: a true collaboration for the betterment of the 
art.
In essence, D.C.A. transcends the boundaries of 
Black Metal with the addition of the Prague 
Symphony Orchestra. Their use of classical not in the 
foreground or background, but rather as an added 
element sets Dimmu apart in their foray into 
Beethoven’s backyard.
And in spite of their more commercial colleagues’ 
initial attempts, Dimmu have shown the way to bring 
orchestration into metal.
THIS WEEK’S METAL EVENTS:
Tomorrow — Danzig with Cattle Decapitation and 
others visit Club Laga
Wednesday — Dog Fashion Disco, Club Laga
daIlDe phylou 
BlonhD BerAA6DnelD
Albert Cohen/Senior Staffwriter
Dimmu Borgir played Club Laga last night, along with Children of Bodom and Hypocrisy.
1pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

A Mormon’s fantasy
Orson Scott Card writes fantasy fiction influenced by Joseph Smith
When an author waits a long time between parts of 
a series, the book is less well-received when it finally 
comes out.
The longer an audience has to wait, the more they 
expect, and the more difficult it becomes for an 
author or screenwriter to deliver. Orson Scott Card, 
author of Ender’s Game and the Alvin Maker series, 
had a lot to live up to.
After Heartfire, he had six years to craft The Crystal 
City, his most recent book and the penultimate story 
in the series, a novel that should set up a final con^ 
frontation between Alvin Smith and all the forces 
arrayed against him.
Card wrote a solid novel with The Crystal City in his 
Alvin Maker series, but he leaves the reader wanting 
more.
The Alvin Maker series is set in an alternate 
America, around the early 1800s.
In this world, folk magic and legends are powerful. 
Alvin is the seventh son of a seventh son, giving him 
more power than any other person in the world.
Someone with so much power is known as a Maker, 
and at one point in the series, it was revealed that the 
last Maker was Jesus Christ.
The earlier books in the series (Seventh Son, Red 
Prophet, Prentice Alvin) detail his growth in under­
standing these powers during his first 20 years of life.
In the next two books, Alvin tries to figure out how 
to fulfill his destiny — the building of the Crystal City, 
also known as the City of God.
Besides his overarching enemy, the Unmaker (sort 
of an anthropomorphized entropy), Alvin has to deal 
with a younger brother, Calvin, whose powers are 
nearly as strong as Alvin’s, but who lacks a moral com­
pass.
Alvin also faces an outbreak of yellow fever in New 
Orleans and helps some slaves escape from slavehold­
ers in the Crown Colonies.
He has some help from three friends: Arthur Stuart, 
a young, half-black former slave who Alvin has been 
teaching to become a Maker, Tenskwa-tawa, an 
Indian wise man who protected all the red people by 
raising a barrier of fog along the Mississippi to keep 
the white people out, and La Tia, a descendent of roy­
alty in Africa.
Though there is a six-year gap between what hap­
pened during the ending of Heartfire and the begin­
ning of The Crystal City, Card has two short stories set 
in between (“The Grinning Man” and “Yazoo 
Queen”); this may cause problems for some readers 
— it’s necessary to have read them to understand 
some of what has happened in between the novels.
Card makes it easy to decide whether you’ll enjoy 
his style of writing. Each of his novels has its first 
chapter online at his website, 
http://www.hatrack.com. He goes even further with 
The Crystal City, putting nearly 180 pages worth of 
the book up in 14 parts. He tends towards the rustic, 
spelling most place names as settlers might have - 
“Mizzippy” for Mississippi and “Kennituck” for 
Kentucky.
It is still easily read, and the story is livened up by 
real people from the time put into the story.
The aforementioned Tenskwa-tawa was one of 
them, and Crystal City opens with Alvin speaking with 
a newly made friend, Abe Lincoln.
Sometimes, however, Card has trouble with the 
speed of his scene transitions: sometimes too slow, 
sometimes too fast.
Also, what many readers may not realize is that 
Card has borrowed a good part of Alvin’s character 
from Joseph Smith, the founder of the Church of 
Jesus Christ and Latter-Day Saints (also known as the 
Mormon church).
A reviewer on Amazon.com points out that in his 
dedication, Card offers his thanks to “my great-great- 
grandfather Joseph for the stories behind the story in 
this book,” and points out similarities between their 
lives (Alvin’s brother and Joseph’s, a broken leg at the 
same age).
Card has said in interview that his style has been 
heavily influenced by Joseph Smith, the man respon­
sible for the Book of Mormon, and that he uncon­
sciously adopts some of the themes of his religion into 
his writing.
However, he said, religious propaganda is more 
effective when it flows straight from the heart in the 
form of storytelling.
zrtlT d86rlDelDu ph.? VrorwlD
movie
by neal shyam, 
comics editor
Rushmore
1sl'olT'r?u /ugfu ro' gJ“
Oh great! Justin Schwartzman plays a 15 year old 
weirdo and Bill Murray is a played out tycoon with 
money to burn and a receding hairline of a future 
ahead of him. What are these two super-depressed 
‘tards to do? Fight over a British English teacher! 
My ex-girlfriend’s mother actually attended the 
school they shot the movie at. How amazing.
Orlando
1,y8DT'r?u /ugfu ro' gJ“
According to the user comments on IMDB, this 
movie is garbage. Now, I know I should make my 
own judgments, so here I go. This movie blows. 
Watching a movie based on some crap Virginia 
Woolf wrote sounds downright painful. 
Furthermore, everyone knows that there were no 
good movies made in 1992. Skip this one and go 
straight to Sunday kids.
Seabiscuit
1WDn'r?u c”Ofugfu ro' gJ”Of“
In this comedy, it’s all the wrong inputs and all 
the right outputs. Its like attaching a unity gain 
buffer to a nor gate and getting a transistor. 
Basically, some crappy horse and an even worse 
jockey are backed by some old money and win a 
big race. Tobey Maguire was better in Spiderman. 
I recommend drinking a pitcher of Mint Juleps 
instead.
S.W.A.T.
1Bre8D'r?u /ugfu ro' gJ“
Samuel L. Jackson, Colin Farrell and bunch of 
other “A-listers” star in Hollywood’s latest TV to 
movie spectacular. Some terrorist offers a bunch 
of money for his release, and then a bunch of 
“Ese”s go after the booty. The outcome? Boom- 
boom, bang-bang, death, destruction, and some 
anti-terrorist jingoism.
T.B.A.
1B8o'r?u /ugfu ro' gJ“
Christ, if you don’t know what this, you must go to 
Pitt. Who knows what AB will throw at us this 
term, but more than likely its going to involve 
“general copulation,” puppets, warm mayonnaise, 
and some guy named Hairy Dick, or Aineeda 
Johnson. In plain terms, this movie is porn.
pillbox. 17 November 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
ARTS & EVENTS.
School of Drama Final Fridays 
Cabaret Series Presents "No One's 
Gonna Harm You: The Songs of 
Stephen Sondheim,” Friday, October 
31 at 11 pm. Chosky Theatre. 
Tickets available day of show at 
noon, School of Drama Box Office. 
412.268.2407.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com — The hottest 
new site offering an eclectic array of 
handmade gift items for you, your 
home, and your pampered pets! New 
items added constantly. Right now, 
we have beautiful cat-themed jewel­
ry, unusual Halloween home decor 
items, summer purse clearance sale, 
and unique back-to-school purses.
Vending Route. 25 high-traffic loca­
tions. 18,000.00 yearly income. 
Hurry, won’t last. Cost $3500.
1.800.568.1392. www.vendingthat- 
works.com.
Make $$$ Taking Online Surveys 
Earn $10-$125 for Surveys Earn 
$25-$250 for Focus Groups. 
www. cash4students. com/patar.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 min­
utes. Sign up today to participate in 
this fun, easy, and quick word puzzle 
study. For times and information e- 
mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with 
Puzzle Study in the subject line.
Local test prep. Company seeking 
part time physics teachers. Excellent 
communications skills a must. Grad 
students preferred but not limited to. 
Call 412.687.4880 or e-mail 
info.pittsburgh@review.com.
Need an extra $36,000 a year? 
Vending route for sale. Cost 
$5000.00.
Help find missing children.
1.800.853.7155 or www.webde- 
signl99.com
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and 
female. All hair types. Call
412.488.8951 ext. 201 for details 
and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my 
thoughts into words for a mystery 
novel. $50.00 per chapter. 12 chap­
ters: $600.00 — 15 chapters 
$750.00. Please send resume to 
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to
412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter
Trent. Qualifications: creativity and 
the enjoyment of writing.
**Work From Home*** Int’l 
Company Expanding. Earn up to 
$500-$1500 PT/mo. $2000-$7500 
FT/mo. Will train. Call: 
1.888.304.08 7 2. 
www. NewLifeWealth. com
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED 
Peer Educators needed to present 
sexuality education programs to 
teens. Good public speaking skills 
desired. No experience necessary. 
Paid training. Flexible part-time 
hours. Must be high school gradu­
ate. Great for college students. 
Possible internship opportunities. 
For more information, please call
412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for 
Damion or send e-mail to fhcpeered- 
ucation@hotmail. com
MEDICAL.
Amazing Metabolism Breakthrough! 
Lose 10 - 200 LBS!! Easy, quick, 
fast dramatic results. All Natural. Dr. 
Recommended. $$$ Guarantee.
1.888.738.2802 
www. Ne wL ife Trend, net
Talk Therapy Research Study for 
Depression and Anxiety Men and 
women, ages 18 to 60, who are suf­
fering with symptoms of both depres­
sion and anxiety are needed to par­
ticipate in a talk therapy research 
study. For more details or to see if 
you qualify, please call the 
Depression Prevention Program at
412.624.4444. There are no costs 
associated with the study. All calls 
are confidential.
Completely healthy males ages 18- 
40 without medical problems and 
not taking any medications needed 
for research study in the division of 
Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care 
Medicine at the University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center. Must 
have no history of diabetes, insom­
nia, smoking, or depression. Study 
will involve two 48-hour sessions in 
the sleep laboratory during the week. 
Total participation time will be 
approximately 4 weeks. No cost to 
participants; financial compensation 
provided. Call Heidi at
412.692.2880.
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone 
you love? You’re not alone. 
According to the National Institute of 
Mental Health, during any one-year 
period, 18.8 million Americans — 
one in 10 adults — experience
depression. Andrea Fagiolini, MD, is 
conducting a research study at the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center to examine the effectiveness 
of an antidepressant medication for 
major depression. You or a loved one 
may qualify if you:
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* are either antidepressant-free or 
taking an antidepressant that is not 
helping.
As part of the study, participants will 
undergo psychological assessments 
and receive medication. The med­
ication to be used in this study has 
been approved by the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration for major 
depression. There is no cost for par­
ticipating in the study. For more 
information, please call Traci 
Salopek today at 412.624.4444. All 
calls are confidential.
TRAVEL.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with 
Beach Life Vacations! America’s Best 
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, 
Cancún, Acapulco, Bahamas, 
Florida. Sell rips, Earn Cash, Travel 
Free! Hurry - Book Now!
1.800.733.6347 
www. beachlifevacations. com
* 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancún, Jamaica, Acapulco, 
Bahamas, Florida. Campus Reps 
Wanted! Free Meals & Parties! 
800-234-7007 
endiesssummertours. com
***SPRING BREAK*** PANAMA 
CITY BEACH, FL Book early and save 
$$$ World's longest keg party - Free 
beer all week! Live band & DJ. Wet T- 
shirt, hard body and Venus Swimwear 
contest. Suites up to 12 people, 3 
pools, huge beachfront hot tub, lazy 
river ride, water slide, jet skis, para- 
sail. Beach Resort
800-488-8828 www.sandpiperbea- 
con.com
Orion Media Associates, Inc. 
800-298-4855 Fax 865-463-0038 
orioncorp@comcast. net
USA SPRING BREAK.com 
Cancún, Bahamas, Acapulco, 
Jamaica & More. Don't be fooled! Go 
with Quality & Experience! 28 years 
in business. Largest Student Tour 
Operator. (Division of USA Student 
Travel). Call Toll Free:
1.877.460.6077. Now also hiring 
Campus Reps. Earn 2 Free Trips for 
15 Travelers & $$
Sell Spring Break Trips! Guaranteed 
Best Buy 1 free trip for every 10
paid OR ca$h starting with first 
booking. Exxtreme Party Packages! 
Protection of American Express 
Worldwide EXXTREME VACATIONS, 
INC 1.800.336.2260 
www. xxvacations. com
Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 Travelers & 
$$ Vending Route. 25 high traffic 
locations. 18,000.00 yearly income. 
Hurry, won't last. Cost $3500. 
1.800.568.1392 www.vendingthat- 
works.com
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 
12th trip free. Group discounts for 
6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com 
or 1.800.838.8202
Test your word skills,' but more 
importantly, GET PAID! WINTER 
AND SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach 
Trips on sale now!
www.Sunchase.com or call 
1.800.SUNCHASE today!
Spring Break ‘04 with Student 
City.com and Maxim Magazine! Get 
hooked up with Free trips, Cash and 
VIP Status as a Campus Rep! Choose 
from 15 of the hottest destinations. 
Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE 
DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price 
Guarantee! To reserve online or view 
our Photo Gallery, visit www.stu- 
dentcity.com or call 1-888-SPRING- 
BREAK!
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acura Integra ‘00 GS, 26k miles, 
red, 2dr coupe, 5spd, leather, CD, 
AC, sunroof. Excellent condition 
$13,200. Call 724.612.4403.
O’HARA TOWNSHIP 
Good first house in the Fox Chapel 
School District. Brick Cape Cod with 
3 BR, 2 Baths. $160,000. For info 
send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu 
Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse 
Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top 
Deck, Quiet. $850.00 + Gas & 
Electric. Call 412.621.3028.
Luxury 2 bedroom one block to CMU. 
Beautiful, modern & spacious with 
vaulted ceilings. Fully equipped 
kitchen. Fenced yard with patio. 
Laundry, A/C. $1200/month includes 
gas, elec & digital cable. Robb Real 
Estate Co. 412.682.7622 or 
rrec@telerama. com
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking 
CMU Female Roommate for Second 
Bedroom and Private Full Bath. 
Saxony Apartments 229 N. Craig 
Street. FURNISHED Apartment 
ONLY .5 miles from CMU. LAUNDRY
and PARKING available. Shared 
Utilities, CABLE and INTERNET. 
(WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for 
$500/month. Call: 520-370-1787. 
E-mail: tcpaz@hotmail.com
Squirrel Hill, 2nd floor duplex, 2 
large rooms plus kitchen and bath, 
ideal for 2 students, 1 block from 
bus line to university, $795, 
INCLUDES GAS AND ELECTRIC. 
Call 412.521.1308.
HOME FOR SALE BEECHVIEW. 
Home with inviting entry awaits you! 
Solid, spacious one floor, brick with 
character, level entry, near T, 8 min­
utes to town, near greenway, 3 br, 1 
ba, $55K 412.421.5659,
jjune@pghmail. com
Forest Hills - Furnished room for rent
- only $325.00. Call 412-371-2256
Office Space for rent on Fifth Avenue
- $600/month, call 412-681-6830
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at 
The Tartan's discretion 
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon 
University 
Pittsburgh,PA 15289
• Classifieds must be 
paid in cash, check, or 
credit card before first 
run date
• Non-local ad rates:
20 words.......
$10.00/wk
21-50 words........
$12.00/wk
51-100 words......
$15.00/wk
• Due 5 pm Thursday 
before publication
14pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

03Mo vi el3nk ,MLiiC. ^m tdMo frrdT 3rn sdrnTkm a
ACROSSDOWN
4Preferred sitting stylelThis nylon circle made PE fun
7Science class spot2Tardy? You’d better have a note from__
9From brick red to navy blue3Weird kids ate it
10You bounced a ball in four__5It might be a double-dog-__
11A student6The best part of kindergarten
13The plastic whistle you blew in music class7A run around the track
15The lunchlady slapped your gruel on this8This guy stole your lunch money
17The subject of your report12Leap__
18A curvy new way to write13You want it to say “A” (2 wds.)
20__, you’re it!14The “funnest" part of the day
21Bad kids get a time-__16These are Weekly
22In the winter, you hope for these days17Spelling insect?
25Did you go to middle school, or__high?19Up and down playground ride; see-__
26How to get chalk dust out of erasers23You sold chocolate to raise these
28You walked in them, and colored inside them24Forbidden game with your no. 2s
31Moms and dads with school spirit27 'These fifth graders kept campus safe
33__Fair project29Oh no! You lost the combination to your__
34It wasn’t a library; it was a _ center30The President awarded you for this
37You always got caught passing__32How babies are made, kind of (2 wds.)
38The nurse checks your head for these35Where some kids went before kindergarten
39Do it to the flag36What Nancy Reagan would never say to drugs
40Forbidden writing tools
41Mr. Smith’s sick day replacement
42It's big and yellow; how could you miss it?
Prot essalo ygintFgT
S 1 T | ARBUCKS_DM~B
TBEACRh-6­o
E 1A | SEBANDA1DRjm
wjBBMRARM ­'’
r-UCHAR1TYC?II
D’hZNo- nKE¦ C
e­h-IACC0DLSf¦¦s'NESAESie
¦wHTLPUt-go
STilRUEPMOb­y-r
LU 
—! 
ÖARCHANE0iW
givljj1KDRM8V.
gr gNYEBCA-a
’D ’SANY0RA’r
T-e [oCKSTWEA1 ms
q DGLDo-’e
1 D 1 EMAND1ie
ÉÔPBSWATERBe
pillbox. 17 November 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
Rupert left Amy’s body laying there by White’s Pond. He flew 
away and never looked back on that grim hour. Now that Rupert
>had lost his one love, there was nothing binding him to this cruel £ • ^
earth. You might think that a duck with no reason to live might 1
just give in to idleness and despair. On the contrary, Rupert had 
never been more alive! He swam with the sharks, went bungee jumping, attempt­
ed snowboarding... all with the careless abandon of one who was not afraid of the 
eternal darkness of death. He even took up smoking expensive flavored cigarettes 
that came in tins. Rupert was invincible! Indeed, he had looked death in the eyes 
and held death in his arms. Rupert was a changed duck for it. Nothing scared him 
now. Except maybe clowns...
G. Prichard 
gprichar@
' |+ s*iyi kcrc +/>«(+ I 
4hi. pKont Vi S "Hti.
\P*r-Ftcï JlS'j'i.
We. <ytry
V\U<v>aO -foc-for
cons;d4rey *n<! 1+ wilt 
it to*, for+^W^ !», 'Hit 
(.aU «f oo/dM J
"cut siz, siz,Mu Mue. ipecker 
IS *4 my 1 da,i> ntej -tt holJ ¡Ï!
3,9w i27w9 d o9wh lm pppc0w,a8m8wuca,.Fm27w9flvhfg9wh
Jokes N’ Laffs! By Ell!
Everybodies News by Franz Harter
...............„ hKI’T R1 JTTT'.S r.MFA' WHATS THtS ?1( A BOLD. NEW. ERNEST MARKETING CAMPAIGN
Wdh^BLt AND you DON I LAkt !!L .THOUGHTS?
) ‘I 1 hTF FAT 4Mh F API V RUT V OP (WQNHI DUNNO WH/ATS YOUR MEANING OF LIFE^LOOK, BEING DEAAOGRAPHEb ï j ÎBAD, BUT NO ONE ESCAPES MARKETING. NOW STOP
DO IT NOW. SAVE US ADVERTISING
11:45 by Ed Ryan epr@
loy<A
I thought your cartoon was a poor attempt at ragging on Christians. Where are the cartoons ragging on the liberal extremists?
VeM Cf pfek) yodfe 5
Ware.'*) W €^\Jey\ ^G&ref *Jr
f^)lf\CA oA i)b^/a.i c
Af\\ / " 4 > *
C? \J(X f0L(\ \o Slip
amwò-ì? ¡yi A,5 h
ßj i9v*=m
1pillbox. 17 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

D ilbert
by Scott Adams
TED IS BEING RUDE 
AND UNHELPFUL. CAN 
YOU ASK HIS BOSS TO 
REMOVE HIh\ FROfA 
THE PROJECT?
I WONDER 
HOW PEOPLE 
SOLVED PROB 
LEWS BEFORE 
E-NAIL. . /
(PLEASE DON'T 
|GO. . . ITS 
!STILL OUT | 
THERE. /
I CANT RISK BEING 
KNOWN AS THE GUY 
WHO KNOWS HOW TO 
EDIT THE DATABASE.
I CAN ONLY 
STAY IF YOU 
GIVE IAE AN 
AWARD.
IAY PROTECT HAS NO 
PROGRESS AND NO 
HOPE FOR PROGRESS.
WE'LL BE SEEING 
A LOT OF EACH 
OTHER. I'h A 
BOSS STALKER.
I WAIT BY HIS 
OFFICE .UNSCHEDULED, 
READY TO SUCK UP TO 
HlfA WHENEVER HIS 
PHONE CALLS END.
WALLY, CAN YOU SHOW 
fAE HOW TO fAAKE 
CHANGES TO THE 
SKILLS DATABASE?
I'LL BALANCE THEn L 
ON TOP OF THE TRASH 
CAN SO THE JANITOR 
KNOWS ITS NOT PART 
OF THE ACTUAL TRASH.
__S *v>' *v* '-J \_^
THESE ITEttS ttUST 
BE WHAT'S NOST 
URGENTLY IN NEED 
OF DISCARDATION.
BECAUSE?
S.
LATER WE LL BE JOINED 
BY THE DIRECTOR OF 
THE ONLY DIVISION 
THAT'S MAKING A 
PROFIT.
I SCHEDULED A fAEETING 
SO I CAN FANTASIZE 
THAT IT WILL PRODUCE 
A BREAKTHROUGH.
r~?J
I RECOIAIAEND THAT WE 
HAVE A fAEETING NEXT 
WEEK SO YOU CAN 
FANTASIZE THAT YOU'LL 
COACH fAE TO HIGHER 
LEVELS OF 
PERFORIAANCE.
I BARELY 
HAVE TlfAE 
TO AVOID 
THE WORK I 
ALREADY 
HAVE.
BEHOLD fAY GREATNESSI! 
BATHE YE ALL IN THE 
PLEASURE OF (AY 
GENERAL PROXIMITY!!
SOUNDS
GOOD.
MlUM
by Stephan Pastis
ïilETRlEPTû 
WAKE AnJ APPOINTMENT, BOT SHE
©ikTrcv pdMoDP HER PHONE.
ArAW you've nEDasN SYHP UYRSYyyYU PHIYPMOOOMVV y™VV$R 34 9H., IV I™HI RyM.™$HIS$yI MV0 VyYR IV yYYO
56yI 2V 9M I™Y V11$.Y OOO8HM9Y Cgglii .HI.™ ™YS e™$PY y™YLy $,¿O
PSYCHIATRIC 
HEl ?S<t
THE DOCTOR
SO ujhat's \ HE’LL KEEP LOOKlMG. HE HE SAYS THERE'S 60Mk)A / ONE OTHER PLACE PO? A SHE MlGHT BE. .
...You Y OOOCsrJOOO 9gncJt 9riiggToA MAKE ME BALLOOKjJ HAPPy.
...YouWAtfT To BE HPVa$Yl
ogvvC you
COULPN’T
FlMPyooRPSYCHIATRIST.
PIP PIG-
HISPSYCHIATRIST.
MO. HE U)e«T 
BY HER OFFICE, 
BOT SHE 
WASN'T IK). jir Si GH #
You'RC A 
MOROÜ.excose AsW oFvWBOT WOOLP YOU BE IriTERESTEP IK) BEI MG ANJ ORGAN PoNoR?>
that's GOOP. 
AT LEAST 
HE HAS 
SOMETHING HE CAM 
COütfT Ok).
SO UHATiSHCGOMNAPO?
eYPPW6™Y,¿ ™YLy I™$y RgbTW tJsvslo r Nirms ™Y GOES 10 TO LISTEN TO MOSIC... IT ALWAYS CHEERS HIM OP. y
RFclo NvsttCRYRSYyyYROOOO™w .V6PR-I 1Fa$R ™$y RyM.™$HIS$yIO W
pillbox. 17 November 2003.17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
Captain America — under new management
The publishing wing of Marvel Enterprises, Inc. 
is under new management. President Bill 
Jemas, in something of a controversy for a vocal 
minority of comic fans, has moved on to differ­
ent responsibilities within the company. Friend 
and former coworker Dan Buckley has taken the 
reins as the President of Publishing, overseeing 
such icons as Spider-Man, the X-Men, and 
Captain America.
The executive changes at Marvel coincide with a 
creative shift in the pages of Captain America. 
Although the Jemas-era of Marvel Comics was 
successful at reinvigorating many properties, 
the Captain America series struggled to find a 
creative focus. After relaunching the series 
under the edgier Marvel Knights imprint, initial 
hype died and the title disappeared under a 
continuous rotation of creators.
Created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby in 1940, 
the Sentinel of Liberty entered the world knock­
ing the crap out of Hider on the cover of 
Captain America #7. Inside, the issue told the 
story of a scrawny teen named Steve Rodgers, 
rejected from the military but desperate to fight 
the Nazis. In a project called “Operation 
Rebirth,” Steve was injected with a Super 
Soldier Serum, and became Captain America.
Resurrection has been a reoccurring theme in 
the career of Steve Rodgers, both on and off the 
pages. After “Operation Rebirth/’ Captain 
America fought bravely throughout the ’40s. But 
the ’50s saw a wane in public interest, and 
superheroes nearly died off. In 1964, Stan Lee 
literally resurrected the Super Soldier from a 
drifting block of ice in Avengers #4. Captain 
America enjoyed success as a “man out of time,” 
a living legend from WWII.
In the 1970s, Steve Rodgers abandoned the 
moniker of Captain America and was reborn as 
Nomad, the man without a country. Eventually 
returning to his iconic uniform, Steve coasted 
through the beginning of the ’80s.
Towards the end of the decade, the uniform was 
repossessed by the American government and 
passed onto another patriotic defender.
By the 1990s, Steve was back in the saddle. At 
the end of the decade, Marvel ended all ongo­
ing “hero” titles such as the Fantastic Four, 
Avengers, and of course, Captain America. In an 
event known as “Heroes Reborn,” the titles were 
taken over by Image Comics creators and re­
envisioned in an “extreme” style.
Come full circle, and the year is 2001. After the 
attacks on New York City in September, Marvel 
announced their previous plan to relaunch 
Captain America yet again. Although hype was 
built around Steve’s “more mature” introduc­
tion, the excitement quickly died off in a contin­
uous cycle of creators leaving the tide.
Currently, Captain America has reached another 
point of creative change.
The recent changes for Captain America are 
simply in keeping with the character’s tradition. 
In the mini-series Truth: Red, White, and Black, 
Marvel rewrote the origin of Captain America 
with a socially conscious slant. Writer Robert 
Morales crafted a tale which reflected the racist 
mentality of the U.S. government in the 1940s. 
From 1932 until 1972, the U.S. Public Health 
Service performed the Tuskegee Syphilis 
Experiment, in which 399 black American males 
were infected with the disease. The goal was to 
learn from the autopsies of the syphilis-ravaged 
men, not to cure them of the serious illness.
Following in this train of thought, Morales 
worked out a tale in which the Super Soldier 
Serum was tested on black soldiers before it was 
given to Steve Rodgers. The work of Morales, 
with artist Kyle Baker, was intelligent and sus­
penseful. Still, changes to the hero’s mythos 
upset many diehard fans. The collected edition 
of Truth will be available in February, 2004.
While Morales was reworking the concept of 
Captain America, artist Chris Bachalo was 
reworking the character visually. In the mini­
series Ultimate War, Bachalo drew Steve 
Rodgers in a hard-hitting, detailed style, which 
appropriately fit Captain America’s demeanor. 
Bachalo’s dirty backgrounds also added a new 
vision of America to the Captain’s world.
Ultimate War is now available online and in 
comic shops.
With Captain America #21, the series will see 
these two creators joining forces. Morales has 
billed his writings as a Steve Rodgers-centric 
take, hoping to add some focus to the character. 
Bachalo will lend his unique hand to Steve 
Rodgers’ universe, drawing both the soldier and 
the citizen inside Captain America. Previews of 
the issue have received mixed response online, 
depending on the website or newsgroup to 
report the changes. Is Captain America truly 
reborn with this new creative direction? The 
truth will hit stores on December 3, 2003.
Gnbj VrDnohu BerAA6DnelD
pillbox. XI -November. 2003.
Photo Courtesy of newsarama.com
Captain America proves that white men can jump.
Photo Courtesy of newsarama.com
Captain America strolls through the jungle.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 17.
Michael Feinstein. Benedum Center. 7:30 pm. For ticket 
price information, call 412.456.6666 or visit 
www.pgharts.org.
Health Cooking Class. Jewish Community Center, Squirrel 
Hill. This week: Easy Entrées.
Contact: 412.521.8010.
TUESDAY is
The Flying Dutchman. Benedum Center. 7 pm. Also, Fri., 
Nov. 21. For ticket price information, call 
412.456.6666 or visit www.pgharts.org.
Ralph Kirshbaum. Heinz Hall. 8 pm. For ticket price 
information, call 412.392.4900 or visit www.pitts- 
burghsymphony. org.
Censored TV: a collection of never-before seen comedy 
TV pilots and censored shows. McConomy Auditorium. 8 
and 10 pm. Free with CMU ID.
They Walk and Talk. A series of artist talks as part of 
supervalitragilisticexcelluminaceous, the School of Art 
faculty exhibition at Carnegie Mellon University. All 
talks are at noon in the gallery. Bring your lunch. Today’s 
speakers: Shawn Lawson, Ayanah Moor, Lance Winn. 
Contact Jenny Strayer, Miller Gallery director. 412.268. 
3877.
WEDNESDAY 19.
Hump. 945 Liberty Ave, Downtown. Party 5:30- 
7:30. Performance of Quantum Theater’s Closer at
8 pm. $18 includes party and show, www.meet- 
here.com.
THURSDAY 20.
Cuarteto Latinoamericano. With School of Music faculty 
members Toby Appel and Sergey Schepkin. Kresge 
Theater. 7:30 pm. Tickets $8-$10. 412.268.2383.
65 Roses Sports Auction. Sanctuary. 6 pm. $50 per person. 
412.321.4422. vmanick@cff.org.
Memories and Nostalgia. Heinz Hall. 8 pm. For ticket price 
information, call 412.392.4900 or visit www.pittsburgh- 
symphony.org.
Spunk. Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater, Purnell Center. 
7:30 pm. 412-268-2407.
Sly Fox. A retelling of the classic play Volpone, by Ben 
Jonson. Directed by School of Drama faculty member Jed 
Allen Harris. Philip Chosky Theater. 7:30 pm. 
412.268.2407.
FRIDAY 21.
The Flying Dutchman. Benedum Center. 8 pm. For ticket 
price information, call 412.456.6666 or visit 
www.pgharts.org.
Bruce Bruce. The Improv, the Waterfront. 8 and 10 pm. 
Through the weekend. For more information, call 
412.462.5233.
Memories and Nostalgia. Heinz Hall. 8 pm. For ticket 
price information, call 412.392.4900 or visit www.pitts- 
burghsymphony. org.
Crown Royal Comedy Soul Festival. Featuring Earth, Wind 
and Fire, Isley Brothers, Rickey Smiley, Earthquake, 
Bruce Bruce, and Adele Givens. Mellon Arena. 7:30 pm. 
$36.75, $47.25, and $57.75. 412.323.1919.
“What Do Pirates Put In The Frame? Arrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrt!”
Featuring art by Josh Johnson “The Dreaded” and 
Andrew “Calico” Klein. The Frame Art Space. Opening 
reception 7 to 10 pm. Through November 25.
SATURDAY 22.
Ribbon of Highway — Endless Skyway; A Concert in the Spirit 
of Woody Guthrie. Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland. 
412.394.3353.
BridgeSpotters Collective Urban Space. Lit Stuff Downtown. 
Open stage, spoken word, performance and more. 
Saturdays
Contact: 412.288.0383.
SUNDAY 23.
Cirque & Co. In Typo. Byham Theater. 2 pm. $8.50 to 
$10.50. 412.321.5520.
ONGOING
“Generation ART: The New Breed Of Pittsburgh.”
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. Through December 27. 
412.361.0873.
The Chief. O’Reilly Theater, 621 Penn Avenue, 
Downtown. Tickets: $36-$53.
The story of Art Rooney, written by the Public's Rob 
Zellers and The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Gene 
Collier. Through December 14. 412.316.1600 
www.ppt.org.
Lovely Day. City Theatre, 1300 Bingham and 13th 
Street, South Side. Ticket Price $15 to $38. This play 
by Leslie Ayvazian deals with war paranoia. A talkback 
will be held after every performance. Directed by Tracy 
Brigden. 412.431.CITY. 
www. citytheatrecompany. org
Quantum Theatre’s Closer, by Patrick Marber. The Jackman 
Building, downtown at 6th & Penn Avenues, across from 
Curtain Call. Tickets: $20, limited number of $15 stu­
dent tickets with valid ID. Through Dec. 14. Please call 
ProArts at 412.394.3353. www.quantumtheatre.com.
Thistle senior portraits. University Center. Beginning 
today. Sign up online to have your portrait taken: 
http://thistleworkl .pc.cc. emu. edu/
UPMC SportsWorks. UPMC SportsWorks Building at 
Carnegie Science Center. Through March 23, 2005. For 
more info, e-mail chapmank@csc.clpgh.org.
Heinz 57. Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional 
History Center. 10 am to 5 pm. $6 adult, $4.50 seniors, 
$3 children 6-18, free children under 6 and members. 
Through December 31, 2005. For more info, e-mail 
hswp@hswp.org.
Points in Time: Building a Life in Western PA 1750-Today.
Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center.
10 am to 5 pm. $6 adult, $4.50 seniors, $3 children 6- 
18, free children under 6 and members. Through 
December 31, 2005. For more info, e-mail
hswp@hswp.org.
Shantytown — The Ed Salamony Photographs. Photo 
Antiquities Museum of Photographic History. 10 am to 4 
pm. $6.50 adults, $5 students, Thursdays free. 
Through December 31. For more info, e-mail donna@photoan- 
tiquities.org.
Historic Tour of Clayton. Frick Art and Historical Center. 
General admission, $10; seniors, $8; students, $8. 
Through January 31, 2004.
PittsburghHipHop.com’s Open Mic and Party every Sunday.
The Warehouse (2835 Smallman Street, Strip District).
6 to 10 pm. $10, $5 with flyer. Through November 23. 
For more information, e-mail openmic@pittsburghhiphop.com.
Hospice Preferred Choice. 2400 Ardmore Blvd., Suite 
302. Physical, emotional, and spiritual support to 
patients and families. Training and support are provided 
for all volunteers. Contact Rebecca L. Trichtinger at
412.271.2273. rebecca_trichtinger@beveriycorp.com
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape (PAAR). 81 S. 19th St..
Become a hotline counselor or emergency advocate serv­
ing victims and survivors of sexual assault and their fam­
ilies. Contact Lesley Price 412.431.5665. 
h ttpJ/www. paar. net
Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force. 905 West Street, Fourth 
Floor, Wilkinsburg. Volunteer to provide direct support 
and information to individuals affected by HIV and 
AIDS. Contact Dianne Duursma 412.242.2500 ext. 
132.
http://www.patf.org
info@patf.org
Planned Parenthood of Western PA. 209 Ninth St., Suite
400. Volunteer with development, fundraising, political
advocacy, administrative tasks, educational efforts, and
community outreach. Contact Karen Derzic at
412.434.8969.
http://ppwp. org/ppwp/
volunteer@ppwp. org
pillbox. 17, November 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Brain canvas: Senior art student Kay Matsuda hopes to combine her psychology and art stud­
ies in a series of psychological portrait paintings. The above is an untitled child portrait.
