FOOTBALL DANCE 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1 j 
¡UNION 8 P.M.;
I____
BRING DAD! 
MOTHERS WELCOME 
NOVEMBER FIRST
VOL. XIX No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY. OCTOBER 28, 1924
PLAID PUNCTURES PITTS PRESTIGE! 6-0!
Repeated Onslaughts of Blue and Gold Succumb to Skibo’s Spartan Grit
SECOND ANNUAL 
FATHER’S DAY 
THIS SATURDAY
Football Games, Luncheons, 
Dinner, Plays and Dances 
. Make Full Day For Paters 
of Carnegie Students
PREPARE FOR CROWD
Saturday, November 1, marks the 
second annual Father's Day at Car­
negie. To those of I_ who were here 
last year but little has to be said of 
this looked for event, ibut to Fresli- 
m>en and new students a little explan­
ation is necessary. Father’s Day is 
the day on which we invite our 
Dade Mothers to visit us and 
show them how- we carry-on while 
we are at college. We show them 
th-er class- r.ooms. in w-hLch we suffer, 
the laboratories which prompt us to 
swear when a gruesome experiment 
goea wrong, .our dining halls and 
sleeping charters. We show them 
the. true. Carnegie spirit as displayed 
at a football garae and at our dances, 
shows and other forms of diversion.
All students who have not sent in­
vitations extended by Dr. Baker to 
their parents are requested to do so 
immediately. Send a special delivery 
letter or telegraph if necessary; by 
all' means let them know that the 
day is set aside for them. Don't 
youi think Dad would like to look 
over some of our Maggie Murphs and 
perhaps pass a few comments on the 
one you have picket out?
An alabora,te program has been ar­
ranged for this day. Parents are re­
quested to register in Central Build­
ing immediately upon their arrival. 
Dr. , Baker has requested that the 
professors and instructors be in their 
room no that they may answer any 
questions our parents may propound.
(Continued on Page Four.)
REV. MAC GOVVAN SPEAKER
AT NEXT CHAPEL SERVICE
Rev. Robert MacGowan, pastor of 
the Bellefiehl Presbyterian Church, 
will be the speaker at the institute 
chapel service in the Little Theater, 
on Thursday, October 30, at 12:50.
Rev. MacGowan has chosen as the 
subject for his discourse, “The Great 
Invitation.” and all cail be assui*ed 
that his vigorous and edifying style 
will make it well worth while to hear 
him.
Miss ElinOre Steenson of the Music 
Department will render a vocal solo, 
with Alfred Johnson at the organ.
500 BUYERS OF 
STATE TICKETS 
ARE REQUIRED
CARNEGIE TO STUDY 
SMOKE ELIMINATION
To Work in Conjunction With 
Bureau of Mines For 
Smokeless Fuel
Band Presents New 
Formations at Games
Membership Sixty - Three — 
Will Need More Kilts
That the band is becoming one of 
the most popular activities on the 
campus is shown by the fact that its 
membership numbers sixty-three men. 
So many applications have been re­
ceived that positions have been placed 
on a competitive basis, and only those 
men who show a marked ability are 
awarded places. Manager Dave Gar­
ber states that by next year additional 
kilts will be needed, because the 
band has only fifty-five kilts at pres­
ent, forcing eight men to play with­
out ‘uniforms.
The band as an activity which re­
quires much hard work on the part of 
its menibers, practice being held two 
nights each week. In addition to the 
time spent on the music much time 
must he given to practicing marching 
maneuvers.
Our kilties have undoubtedly made 
a name for themselves and our School
• Their playing at the W. & J. and Pitt 
games , was particularly notable, thus 
adding to. their already enviable repu- 
tatiom On both occasions their 
maneuvering into the C. E. T. forma­
tion was cleverly executed, drawing 
applause from both the opponents and 
Carnegie. The band first brought out 
the new formation at W. & J., receiv­
ing the deserved' admiration of a 
capacity crowd.
Underlying the popularity which 
the band now enjoys was an immense 
(Contiuued on Page Two.
SONG RECITAL ENJOYED 
BY MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Students and friends of the Music 
Department enjoyed a very splendid 
song recital last Thursday afternoon 
by Miss Lydia Peterson, one of Ma­
dam Sembricli’8 students.
Miss Peterson has a lovely soprano 
voice which was displayed to line 
a advantage in songs by Wagner, Schu­
mann, Shubert, and.Harvey Gaul. Es­
pecially was she at ease with the first 
group, which she sang in true Wag­
nerian fashion.
Miss Peterson is soon to leave for 
Germany, where she intends to study 
further, and later to enter German 
opera.
This is the first of a group of in­
formal recitals which the Musio De­
partment plans for this season. All 
students who are interested in music 
are invited to attend the remaining 
ones.
That the smoke nuisance in cities 
such as Pittsburgh may be eliminated 
is a possibility of the nearfuture if 
experiments to be conductod this year 
at Carnegie are successful. Steps are 
being taken by the Department of 
Metallurgical and Mining Engineer­
ing and the U. S. Bureau of Mines 
to study the utilization of the pro­
ducts of low temperature carboniza­
tion of coal with particular reference 
to thb economic production of smoke­
less fuel.
The purpose of the study, which 
will be made by J. D. Davis, Acting 
Supervising Chemist at the U. S. Bu­
reau of Mines and L. C. Karrick, a 
Carnegie Tech Research Fellow, is to 
devise means economically feasible 
for abatement of the smoke nuisance 
in cities, such as Pittsburgh, Salt 
Lake -City; Utah, and Ogden, Utah.
The growing urgent demand for 
some practical means of combating 
the .smoke nuisance in such cities is 
given as the reason for the intended 
study by the Carnegie authorities. 
Furthermore, it has long been thought 
that a smokeless fuel might bo pre­
pared by low temperature carboniza­
tion of coal which would solvp the 
problem.
That householders rather than in­
dustrial plants in such cities are "re­
sponsible” for the smoke nuisance, is 
an interesting statement in connec­
tion with the proposed study. This is 
due to the fact that soft coal is 
burned in domestic heating appliances 
with low efficienc3\ it being impos­
sible to formulate rules for combus­
tion that will be generally observed 
(Continued on Page Four;
Before the Railroad Company 
Will Allow the Purchasers 
to Ride at a Rate ot $6.20 
Fdr the Round Trip
GET YOURS PROMPTLY
Preliminary tickets for Fenn State 
to the number of fine hundred must 
be purchased this week to make the 
trip certain. The train will leave 
shortly after eight in the morning 
and return .before midnight, ending 
Cartfegies- only big trip of the year. 
The K11 tie Band will furnish the 
music and: the students will furnish 
the fireworks. The preliminary tick­
ets sell for two dollars and the total 
trip ticket for .$€.20, tne cheapest 
rate ever obtained by any organiza­
tion from the Pennslvania Railroad 
between Pittsburgh and Penn-State. 
The final announcements for the trip 
will be made next we-etc
Elaborate plans have been made 
at the Center county institute to 
care for the largest crowd of its 
•history. It is Suite’s Alumni Home- 
coming Day and the campus will« be 
agog with activity over the week­
end. The country for miles around 
is aroused concerning this event 
and its success as far as State is 
concerned is assured. The Tartan 
rooters wijl parade from the train 
to the caminis, a short distance, to I 
signify their arrival. This will do 
away with the delay occasioned by | 
waiting for busses, as in past years, j
DEPARTMENT OF DRAMA TO
PRESENT PLAY ON FRIDAY
On Friday afternoon; Octobor 31, at 
•1 p. mM the Department of Drama an­
nounces a performance of “One in 
Every Home,” by Harry L. Hamilton.
This performance will be for the 
students. No tickets wil be required. 
This play was written for the National 
Advertisers’ Convention, and will be 
given at the Mosque. October 21».
FAMOUS POET AND 
AUTHOR TO SPEAK
Walter De La Mare to Talk 
on Craftmanship and 
Magic in Poetry
RECIPIENTS OF 
SCHOLARSHIPS 
AREANNOUNCED
CLASSES WILL BE HELD AS 
USUAL ON
Committee of Faculty Mem­
bers Selects Winners of 
Founders Scholarships from 
List of Best Students
REMIT TUITION FEES
Nothing needs to be said to the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
R.O.T.C. Reviewed by 
Major A.C. McBride
First Inspection of Year is 
Entirely Satisfactory
Leo Stimm 1er Elected 
Pres, of Musical Clubs
Harris and Steen Also Re­
ceive New Parts
More changes have been made in 
the administration of the Musical 
Clubs. Leo P. Stimmler. who W<is the 
Publicity Manager under the Sloadal 
regime, has been elected to the office 
of president, vacated by Cal Lund- 
quist. recently made manager. This 
left the publicity job open, so elec­
tions were held in the clubs to fill the 
position. L. H. Harris III. was taken 
from the. position of stage manager 
and placed, by vote, in the publicity 
chair, thereby leaving the clubs with­
out a stage manager. After little hesi­
tation, Joe S. Steen was made the 
stage manager, and things are again 
right, side up in the organiaztion.
Last Sunday the picture of the com­
bined clubs was taken, and. the turn­
out was surprising. Not only did the 
men look spiffy, but they seemed to 
sing better during the short rehearsal, 
and seemed to play belter at their in­
struments, than they had before. The 
question of formal rehearsals has 
been put before the club, for the at­
mosphere created seems to help ma­
terially.
(Continued on Page Four)
PUPPET HOPES TO BE OUT 
TUESDAY IF NOTHING HAPPENS
Puppet wish to apologize for dis­
appointing its thousands of faithful 
readers in not appearing last Thurs­
day as promised. It hopes to appease 
the angry mob by putting in appear­
ance today.
Puppet wishes to assure its eager 
readers that their watchful waiting 
will not be in vain because its bade 
number is well worth waiting for.
Wrathful readers who wish to wax 
virtuous over their bitter disappoint­
ment are referred to the printer who 
did not turn over the covers at the 
promised time.
Last Thursday the R. O. T. C. bat­
talion was veviewed by Major A. C. 
McBride, who Is in charge of It. O. T.
C. affairs in the Third Corps Area. 
Major McBride is the Inspecting of­
ficer from the Third Corps Headquar­
ters at Baltimore, this being his lirst 
inspection trip of the year. On this 
occasion he paid particular attention 
to the drilling. He complimented tlie 
officers on the appearance and organi­
zation of the battalion, being parti­
cularly pleased with the drilling here 
at Carnegie.
The R. O. T. C. is rapidly rounding 
into shape.. Although there are many 
new men, and new cadet-oificers have 
been lately appointed, the battalion is 
beginning to function properly and to 
the satisfaction of the Officers. On 
Thursdays the drill sessions are held. 
The awkwardness which was rather 
evident the first few weeks has dis­
appeared. It is now a thrilling sight 
to see the battalion marching on the 
campus.
Major E. L Daley, of the Regular 
Army and in charge of the Pittsburgh 
River district, gave a lecture to the 
Civil Engineering men last Wednes­
day. Major Daley came to the Pitts­
burgh region shortly after graduation 
(Continued on Page Three)
Walter De La Mare, English author 
and poet, who has come to this coun­
try to detover the annual Turnbull 
Loctures m Poetry at Johns Hopkins 
Untvsr-sit.v, has been engaged by 
¿'resident Baker ta prosont pubjic 
lectures in the Union, on November 
5, G and 7, at 5 p. m. Mr. De La Mare 
will take as his subjects “John 
Keats," "Craftsmanship In Verse" and 
“Magic In Poetry." This announce­
ment will bo of especial Interest to 
those who have road any of the works 
of this very interestingly different 
author. Those who are not acquaint­
ed with his style are promised some­
thing very unique, both in subject 
matter and In mnnner of presentation, j
The works of Mr. Do La Maro aro 
daily becoming inoro popular in the 
United States. His pooms for chil­
dren have won the hearts of a great 
many American aesthetes, due to 
their “strange, spectral beauty," their 
exceptional delicacy of theme and 
structure, their suggestion of a nature 
completely sympathetic with all its 
associates.
More strikingly unique, and far 
more fascinating than his children’s 
poems, however, are his more serious 
poems, and his novels. Rich in fan­
tasy and romance—dealing, in the 
main, with'the attempts and attend­
ant problems of sibnormal characters 
striving to adjust thomsolves to nor­
mal environments—situations are 
created which are so striking, and yet 
so logical, that they cannot but be 
Interesting to the average reader. 
“Memoirs of a Midget,” "Henry 
Brocken" and “The Return” (which 
was awarded the first Edmond de 
Pollgnac Prize, the gift of the Royal 
Society of Literature) arc novels of 
this type.
Mr. Do La Mare is highly praised 
as a critic by many students of litera­
ture. “Prospero,” of Tho Baltlrnoro
Doan Tarbell, as secretary of the 
Committee on Scholarships and 
Prizes, has announced the following 
recipients of the Founder’s Scholar­
ships for 1924-25:
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS—
John Griffith Carr 
Katherine Hessler 
_ John William Konnedy 
Alice L. Nelson 
Stanley Stahesld Stark 
Ben Weinblatt 
Raymond Isaiah Winters 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING— 
Joseph 'Stoplion Ambroso 
Thomas Anthony Elkins 
Abraham Grodner 
George Ivan LeBaron 
David Moskovltz 
Charles Frederick Neu 
Fra de ri ck Dominick Rossini 
Lanco Le Roy Simmons 
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES— 
William Millard Arnold 
Glenn M. Chess 
Lei and Moran Hirsch 
Nathan Loftbov 
George Joseph Murphy 
James Norris Tllbrook 
MARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE 
COLLEGE—
Zula Bernice Brumbaugh 
Emma Josephine Da,y 
Harriet Geary Hart 
(Contlnuod on Page Four.)
The attention of the students voters 
are drawn to the important announce­
ment made from tho registrar's olllce 
that no change has boon made In the 
regular routine of the school for the 
National Election Day.
All scheduled classes will bo regu­
larly held during the day and on the 
evening of November -ltli. Any stu­
dent. wishing to return home for the 
purpose of voting will be excused 
from classes provided permission is 
secured in advance from the Director 
of tbtii respective college.
SESSCONDAULFTHSSR’YD I5A
PAVES WAY 
TO VICTORY
DRAMA DEPT. WILL 
BE HIGHLY HONORED
To Present Play By Harry 
Hamilton at Syria 
Mosque
Will Hold Exhibit of 
Heat and Ventilating
Many Local Concerns Ex­
pected to Participate
(Continued . on Page Three.)
GYMNASIUM PROVIDED 
WITH ITS OWN LAUNDRY
The New Gym has a laundry. It 
will be in operation next week. No 
more will' the towels be sent to out­
side laundries, a proceeding which not 
only costs money, but causes delay.
Every student who has paid the 
regular Gym Fee is entitled to three 
towels a week, which are issued to 
him upon presentation of a slip. After 
use the towel is sent to the laundry.
The new electric laundry will wash 
its own towels and contains a wash­
ing, extracting, drying and ironing 
machine. The whole is complete in 
itself and occupies a floor space of 
40x25 feet.
It is one of the many novel features 
of the New Gym, and its operation 
will be awaited*.N {.th interest.
An exhibition and an, Institute of 
heating and ventilating that will be 
unparalleled in tho history, of the 
school, will be held in the College of 
Industries, according to Professor 
S. 15. Dibble of the plumb­
ing department. Professor Dib­
ble, who has boon trying lo 
convince college authorities of the ad­
visability of the plan for some time, 
finally has been successful and the 
display will bo held November 12. 13 
and 1-1.
The affair will bring together engi­
neers and contractors of the indus­
try and it is through this exhibition 
that the^advocates of the show hope 
to prove that Pittsburgh is the cen­
ter of the heating and ventilating 
world. Aside from fixing in the minds 
of these men the important position 
this district holds in this particular in­
dustrial art, the backers of tho exhi­
bition intend to advance new and 
practical ideas which developed dur 
ing experimental work.
The exhibitions will be held In 
Room 133 while the lectures will be 
given in Industries 104 and the Union. 
Professors Dibble, Hower, Thomas, 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Eleven Men On a Dead Man’s Chest
5<-Eeo -amo— tHDUB/^CE’ BtcofOOINÜ TUA* tlTTLC STUNT Of HIS
60Sat0u rtdy,NWOULOWl J.CT TH£h* BY-------
CoNGeATOLAriONJ
FOTB ALD Opt. o.fi.
1jV1OL. A*j Q *Z7
The Carnegie Drama Department 
will have a wonderful opportunity for 
sproading its fame to tho onds of tho 
earth when it prosents “One in Every 
Homo,' a play writton by a Carnegie- 
graduate,' boL'ore the Direct Mall Ad­
vertising Association, in convention, 
at tho Syria Mosque, Octobor 20, 30 
and 31.
Harry Hamilton, author of the play, 
was engaged by tho Pittsburgh branch 
of the association to write a play, 
dealing with dlroct mall advertising, 
as a result of the good work, which 
ho did while »it Carnegie. Tun of the 
plays that he wrote as an under­
graduate were produced In tho Little 
Arts Theutor, and ho has wrlton sev­
eral successful plays since his gradua­
tion.
"One In Every Home" presents the 
dlroct mall Idea, n very serious busi­
ness proposition In Itself, in a force­
ful, yet humorous, nmnnor. Tho uni­
que situation of a musical, comedy 
star left In charge of her late hus­
band's affairs as president, of the Di­
rect Mall Advertising Association Is 
developed, a very delightful love story 
being skillfully worked In, In Just the 
right proportion us to glvo the play a 
sentimental appeal, yet not seriously 
interfere with tho prime object—pre­
sentation and expansion of the dlroct 
mall Idea.
Mr. Hamilton Is now In tho city it»u 
sisting Chester Wallace, head of the 
Drama Department, in tho production 
of the play. Throe performances will 
bo given In tho Arts Theater, In addi­
tion to the performances at Syria 
Mosque. There will bo a. matinee and
* (Contlnuod on Pago Two.
Football Players to 
Be at Dance in Union
Western Maryland as Guests 
Father’s Day Evening
The weekly dance, which is a rog- 
ular occurrence at Carnegie during 
the football season, will be held at 
the" Union as usual on Saturday, No- 
vemiber 1. Everyone looks forward 
to a good Lime at those weekly hops, 
and veiy seldom, if over, are they 
disappointed, and Saturday night 
will be no exception to the rule.
A special featuro of the dance this 
week will bo that tbe members of 
the Western Maryland and Sklbo 
football teams are invited as' guests 
of honor, and perhaps they will de­
velop a friendly rivalry in dancing 
and show us some new steps. At 
any rate, we hope to show to the 
visitors how royalily Carnegie treats 
her vanquished foes.
Inasmuch as it is Carnegie's An­
nual Father’s Day on that date there 
will be a large number of guests on 
the Campus, and maybe some of the 
Dads will stay and find out Just what 
their sons and daughters have 
learned (tripping the light fantacrtic.)
All students who have the least 
iContlnued on Page Three.)
ENGLISH COMEDY NEXT
DRAMA DEPT. PRODUCTION
For one week, beginning October
11, the Drama Department will pre­
sent ’The Critic," by Sheridan, the 
English author.
"Tho Critic" Is a play within a play, 
dealing with English, lll’e In the late 
Eighteenth Century. From all re­
ports it Is to be tho funnlost show of 
tho year. All the peculiarities of the 
old English stage are set forth In a, 
humorous sotting. Comedy reigns su­
premo.
The play will be produced under the 
direction of Bon Iden Payne, and the 
cast includes Harry Mervis, Eliza­
beth Sowersby, Harriet Walker, 
Claire Schallllase, Ida Kraus, Vernon 
Halden, Hardy Albright and Philip 
Rhodes Thorn.
“They Shall Not Pass” is 
Watchword of Battered 
Tartans as They Out-Gen- 
eral Heavy Opponents
STEFFEN vs. BRAWN
cm- CHAMPIONS FOR AN- 
OTlIBll YEAR!
Out of tho excitement, the tumult, 
tho oodlam, tho nerve-racking final 
miniitss play in the battle within 
the confines of Forbes Field against 
the rc-juvonatod Pitt Panther hiat 
Saturday, that was our share—rot.on^ 
tion of the city championship. That,. * 
and sov.eral iww. pages In . tho ., his-.i: 
tory of Carnogie athletics, pages 
that will bo remembered and rev;, 
©red as the greatest over written 
by a Plaid football team, HuriwiBslnj5 
even those of last year whin Car- " 
nogio for tho first time defeated it" 
Pitt gridiron team,
Relegatod into the background;*'
though not forgotten, are tho valiant ' 
deeds el’ Jimmy Robertson, Brunv 
baulgh, Anderson and Kesner <*r. 
other years; for last Saturday new; 
heroes rose to now heights and jKir- 
formed Just as valiant deeds, or 
even greater ouo& than tholv prede­
cessors. Hopelessly outweighed,
these now heroes outfought, out- 
gamed and out-smartea their worthy 
foomoq from across tho way, and at 
the elbiii of sixty minutes of tbc 
most, thrilling, most gruelling, most 
nerve-racking play ever witnessed at' 
Forbes Field, that stage of number- 
less clUHMlos, our heroes emergod on 
the victories end of a tl to 0 Score. 
Two years In succession, now, him 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Columbia Professor 
To Talk on Literature
Mr. Clayton Hamilton Wil) 
Speak in Little Theatre
On Monday afternoon,i November fl) 
at 4:30 p. in., In the Theater of the • 
College of Flno Arts, tho Department 
of Drama will have as guest lecturer, 
Mr. Clayton Hamilton, for twenty 
years locturor ori Dramatic Litera­
ture In Columbia University. Ills talk 
will cover the Old English Comedies, 
tho Stage In the Day of Sheridan and, 
to somo extent, will relate those to i 
contemporary drama.
This locturo will be opepj'to the. 
public ftnd everyone on the campus is 
most cordially Invited to attend. No , 
tickets will be required. ” . *
Mr. Hamilton is one of our most 
distinguished critics, a playwright, and 
author of a number of works on. t,he 
theater, including "The Theory of the 
Theater,” "Studies in Stagecraft,” • 
“Problems of tho Playwright,” "Seen 
in tho Theater" and "Conversations 
on Contemporary Drama.” He is a 
brilliant contributor to the magazines, 
a delightful personality and a finished 
lecturer.
Mr. Hamilton comes to Pittsburgh 
in connection with the revival of 
Sheridan’s immortal comedy, "The 
Rivals," which will open for a week’s 
engagement at the Nixon Theater, 
November 10, with a distinguished 
cast, headed by Mrs. Minnie Maddern 
Fiske, the production being In cele­
bration of tlie one hundred and fiftieth 
anniversary of Its first performance.
(Continued on Pago Three)
FRESHMAN EQUESTRIANS 
ATTRACT VAST THRONGS
The' English influence, which has 
lately become so evident in the dress • 
and spoecli of our Men About Town, 
has now Invaded the field of college < 
sport. In a laudable effort to estab­
lish a dignified and pleasant Tfltpai; 
tlon, one consistent with tholr newly 
acquired tailoring and accent, a small- 
group of enthusiasts have Interested , 
themselves In a revival, among stu­
dents, of the equestrian .art.
It will bo remembered that in our 
fathor's col logo days, tha badge of 
fashionable distinction was the pos­
session of a pair of smart trotters. 
The Carnegie Plebes, having always 
at. heart the fostering of worthy tradi­
tion, have determined to establish tor 
future freshmen a similar criterion.
These devotees of the sport o£ 
kings may be seen, on these pleasant 
autumn days, putting their steeds 
throiigh their paces before the adralr- 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 2*. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postofilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
FRED O. SMITH................................................................................
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
f. D. ROSSINI T. J.. DEMPSEYE. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
Sara Mao Everett, D. A. Gardner, L. H. Harris, Harriet Merwin, 
A. F. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS..........................................................................
NEWS EDITORS
W.’WINNING ..................................................................................
V. B. SMITH.....................................................................................
................Scheifley 9070
...........Franklin 5547-J
REPORTERS
Estolle Garibaldi, Wilma Stiner, Carol Foiglit, Aimee Pharo, E. G. 
Johnsou. K. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland. C. A. Lundquist, R. L. Lepper, M. 
Hollizisliead, W. Fencil, W. Senkus, D. K. Mims.
A. E. KROGH..............................................................................
Assistants....................................Rosemary McCambridge, E
....ALUMNI EDITOR 
E. Smith, J. M. Goss
J. CHRISTOFF...................................................................................
Assistants................Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A.
.ATHLETIC EDITOR 
C. Foller McWilliams
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON..................................................................................................‘Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER...........................................................:......................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee C. Osborn, J. 
M. Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Per- 
reton, G. H. Cari.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Office hours—Daily 12-30- 
1:20.
! THE VOLCANO
t_________
'Advertisers’ Meeting 
Offers Opportunities
CARNEGIE SPIRIT
Well, wo did it again; beat the Panther for the second year and 
retained the city championship; stopped a seemingly unstoppable 
onslaught ini the last, few minutes of play, and won the game; and the 
thing that won the game was the old Carnegie Spirit. If anyone has 
said that that spirit is dead, let him forever hold his peace.
It was no mean Pitt team wo faced Saturday.; they were primed 
and ready for us, and they showed a fight and spirit which would 
have beaten almost any team then. But the Carnegie team, showing a 
punch and fight which was unbeatable held them at the crucial points 
—and won. Nothing but the actual sight of the game could give 
anyone anadea-of the poucky .stand of the Plaid against a heavier 
ngiiting line. When it seemed that human nature could stand no 
more, the Plaid dived into their force of reserve energy, drew from 
some mysterious place the needed force, land held.
You all saw the game, there’s no use in going into a detail of it. 
Here’s the point. It was the Carnegie Spirit that won. It was some­
thing, a vague, intangible force, more than physical which held on 
when there was seemingly nothing else. And it was not alone vested 
in the team; it permeated the whole student body. The cheering was 
the finest we-have ever heard; it was a. team and a student body 
which would not be beaten, and it could not be beaten.
Kipling writes a few lines which seem made for us:
“If you can make your heart, and nerves, and sinews,
To serve their turn long after they are gone,
And so hold on when there is nothing in you 
1 Except-the will which says to them ‘hold on’.”
And so did that Carnegie team, when there was nothing in them 
i{\ft, carry on witli fern indomitable spirit which tradition gives to 
all teams of the clean of Carnegie.
To Whom It May Be Of Interest: ...... TT _ ,
Be it known by all this procrastina-1 »vm Have Exhibit 01 Fine 
tion that The Carnegie Tartan, a I 
publication of the studeuts and un- : 
dergraduatos of the Carnegie Institute i
Printing Used in Mails
ON SIGNS
Perhaps the most regrettable incident ol1 the whole week was 
the fact that some Carnegie students, with a deformed sense ol! school 
spirit went over to the i’itt campus and stole a sigo. In itself the 
crime is not a heinous one, but'it might have led to gravo results. 
The fact that Pitt students returned the compliment detracts not one 
bit from the fact that the ‘act of a few thoughtless ones might have 
broken again the spirit of friendliness which has been built up be­
tween the two institutions.
Our student council immediately apologized, and to their quick 
action gocsHho credit'for keeping up the friendly relations.
This is no»small school. AVe rank with the leading schools of the 
country, and our students should be of the same plane of character 
.with tho students of the older schools. This sign stealing, and mark­
ing buildings with winning scores is small town stuff; wre should be 
past that stage. Watch it.
Student Calendar
Chapel..
of Technology, being duly registred 
in the Pittsburgh Postofllce as second- 
class matter, shall hereupou and 
hereafter, conduct a column, i. e., a 
portion of a paper devoted to various 
and sundry ideas, the writers whereof 
are irresponsible, with the following 
qualifications:
WHEREAS, Such columns have 
been conducted in the past, are being 
conducted at present, and shall be 
conducted in the future which obtain­
ed the sack because of the mental 
impossibility of their writers, and 
WHEREAS, All others have failed, 
because (ft the ultimate demoraliza­
tion occasioned by the storm of 
withering criticism showered upou 
said colyuni by those not editing it. 
BE IT RESOLVED, That this coi-
The Direct Mail Advertising Asso­
ciation will hold its annual conven­
tion at che Syria Mosque October 29, 
30 and 31. The conventtoI will be 
tho largest ever held by tho associa­
tion and will contain exhibits from 
all parts of the world.
Direct mail advertising is a branch 
of advertising which has recently 
sprung into prominence. It deals 
with advertising to tho consumer 
directly. This phase of advertising 
j has had a very rapid growth and, in 
time, will completely dominate the 
advertising world.
The convention will contain many 
] exhibits of direct mail advertising 
methods. These exhibits are to be 
I of the very finest of their kind in
, , .the world. These will be a collec-yum, ns specified In the lirst port, t|on showin tho beat metllods an(1
I>ub,,sl1 0"’5' contributions as 8Mclm9M .,(lv61.tisin,,.
the student body may see fit to sub-specimens of direct mail advertising. 
I There will also be very fine completemit thereby eliminating all posfßffle oxhtblts 3( fln0 , , 
criticism^from „„^possible source. Tho slx,akers ^ J . 00na,
TO WIT: All students may send
in to THE VOLCANO EDITOR, care 
of Carnegie Tartan, any fragile and 
''ephemeral ideas with which their 
minds may be afflicted or obsessed, as, 
to qypte from The Cornell Daily Sun. 
a thought which seems unusually ap­
propriate :
EXHIBIT A 
Elegy Written On an Excavated 
Campus.
I used to sing the beauties of Cornell,
Her gorges, hills and all her scenic 
riches;
But I’ve a different theme for verse 
today—
The campus ditches.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30
..........................12:30 P. M.. Little Theater
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31
Play—“One in Ks'er.y House’’.............................8:00 P. jr., futile Theater
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1
Father’s Day...............................................-............................................All Carnegie
Football—Oarnegic-AV. Maryland.....................................................Tech Bowl
Play—One in Every House”................................4:00 P. M., Little Theater
'Wotbatl“Dance................. ................................. ...............9:00 P. M., Union
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3
Lecture—Clayton Hamilton..................................4:30 P. M., Little Theater
Walter de la Mare Lectures 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5
“-Tohn Keats”.............................................................................5:00 P. M., Union
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6
“Craftsmanship, in Verse”......................-..........................o:00 P. M., Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7 
“Magic in Poetry”..................................................................5:00 1*. M., Union
’ CARNEGIE DIRECTORY 
IN HANDS OF PRINTER
In years gone by, up leafy paths I 
climbed.
To classes where I tasted learning’s 
blisses;
But now I crawl on wooden planks 
across 
Twelve-foot abysses.
Long lines of trenches girdle every 
hall:
The grassy lawns, that once re­
ceived my praises,
With earthworks ’ heaped and strewn 
with piles of pipe,
Are shot to blazes.
—Don Juan.* * t tt *
AND, F U It T I-I E R M O R E, Mere 
spnsms ma3r also prove acceptable, 
similar lo a contemporary in The 
Daily Californian, who rants:
' EXHIBIT B 
How Sh'trodnary!
Peeking through tho knothole 
In papa’s Wooden leg 
Is done no more,
Because now paw 
Must use it as a iceg. *****
ONE of our claims has a Jumpor 
attached to it—we quote Dr. Ritt- 
man—perhaps you wonder, "Where 
does the'Editor come in?” Ah, lie’s 
the critic, and shall now have his 
revenge, for how a cruel world has 
misjudged him. He dares you, gen­
tle reader, to provoke a spontaneous 
erpution within THE VOLCANO, ro- 
momber *
EXHIBIT C:
A woodpecker pecks 
Out a great many specks 
Of sawdust
• When building a hut;
Ho works like a nigger 
To make tho hole bigger.
He’s sore if 
His cutter won’t cut.
He don’t bother with plans 
Of cheap artisans,
But there’s one thing 
Can rightly be said;
The whole excavation 
Has this explanation:
Ho builds it •
By
Using
His
/ Head.
—-Harlan Davis.
nenco in this phase of advertising 
and are authorities in their line of 
advertising.
The convention will be of groat 
edcational value to any one inter­
ested in advertising or printing. The 
direct mail advertising idea is so 
new that there is not much available 
information on the subject. It is an 
excellent opportunity for those in­
terested to get first hand information 
on the subject.
The admission to the convention 
will be by tickets which can be ob­
tained at the Printing Department. 
Mr. Roy Mumma, one of the officials 
of the convention, was present at 
tho meeting of the Graphic last 
Thursday. The printers were very 
enthusiastic about the convention 
and stated emphatically that they 
would be there; Anyone interested 
in this type of work should* take ad­
vantage of tho opportunity?
PEREGRINATIONS
! WEEK IN THE
WORLD'S NEWS
In one of the Pittsburgh papers last Germany Again in the Throes of a. woek Ulolv was Q,„tori„, lU,,,1111K
General Election. wUh UK) \V. & J.-Gnmogle imme. It
Coolldge’s Policies of Administration (oM ,lbout (h(> trlmmiuK whU,h r0.
The Soldier's Bonus Agmn. , celvod at tho hands ot (ho I'roshlimts.
Then it went 011 to say in part:. 
’There was something about tho iuo-Germany. like Englimd. is in the 
throes of a general election. The 
cabinet was dissolved by Chancellor 
Marx after a vain attempt to get a 
majority vote on tho same minor is­
sues of the Dawes plan. The general 
election will be held December 7th, j 
where questions of government policy j 
and the Dawes plan will bo put for j 
the first- time .before tho German pop­
ulace in a practical form. The ro-1 
suits of tho elections will be watched | 
with much interest but opinion seems I 
to favor tho present government rath-1 
or than either the extreme Right, or 
Left, with tho coming of better busi­
ness.
Prosident Coolidgo in his last ex 
tended speech before election, speak­
ing before the eastern division of tho 
Chamber of Commerce of the United 
Statos, outlined the policies of admin­
istration—the maintninanco of peace 
—the promotion of ecoonomy—leav­
ing the peoplo ¡11 possession of their 
own property (against government 
ownership) — constitutional cove­
nants outlawing Aggressive warfare— 
Permanent Court but no League of 
Nations—a legislative program for the 
farmer’s aid—a high protective tariff 
to protect American industries, wages 
and standards.
After the calamity howlers and pol­
iticians had passed tho Bonus ' Bill 
over the -President’s veto it is rather 
amusing to see the statement from 
Major General Robert C. Davis. In 
charge of the work, that only 1,300,000 
veterans had applied for insurance 
out of 4,500,000—less than oue-third. 
This backs up the President in his 
veto and shows very clearly that 
many of our men aren't out to soli 
their patriotism.
WEST POINT CADETSHIPS 
OPEN FOR APPOINTMENT
All admirers of "The Blind Bow 
Boy” have anxiously waited for Carl 
Van Vechton’s next contribution to 
the field of racy literature. Certainly 
in "The Tattooed Countess” the tltlo 
tries to carry out this idea, but that 
is ns far as it goes. After we have 
been told how and when and where 
the Countess was tattooed the mattor 
is dropped and concerns tho actual 
story as little as the fiowors that 
bloom in the spring.
As for the story, tho author has 
doscribod it as a romantic novel with 
a happy ending, of tho late ninetios. 
That is about all that can bo said of 
it. The purplish frost and motives of 
the countoss form an interesting spot 
of color against the dull background 
of Maple Valley. Tho characteriza­
tions of tho peoplo of the town are 
good, but we have boon so deluged 
with would-bo great American Novels 
of this period that it is doubtful 
whethor the "Tattooed Countess" will 
I rocolvo more than casual consldora- 
1 Hon.
E. SIM CM Eli.
I MAJOR E. L. DALEY SPEAKS
ON NAVIGATION TO A. S. C. E.
BAND PRESENTS NEW
FORMATIONS AT GAMES
COSMO. CLUB INVITES 
FRIENDS TO RECEPTION
Carnegie Tech and the University 
of Pittsburgh will be joint hosts at 
an informal reception party to be 
given to the members of the Inter­
collegiate Cosmopolitan Club of Pitts­
burgh aAd-thair triends. It is to be 
held in the Faculty Club room and the 
Carnegie Union at 8 p. m., on Friday 
October 31. and will be in the nature 
of a Hallowe'en party, to make it less 
formal.
Miss Bonnell and Miss Canfield, 
who are In charge of the entertain­
ment, refUse 'rurtlier disclosures of the 
program, which promises to be not 
only interesting, but novel. Among 
others in tho program there will be 
dancing in costume by Servians, Rus­
sian and Polish Folk-dancers, Hallow­
e’en stunts and games. Social dances 
will be sprinkled in between.
Invitation is extended to the foreign 
students of the two colleges and as 
well as of the Pennsylvania College 
for Women, and the Duquesne Univer­
sity, and to the faculty members who 
are interested in the foreign student 
affairs.
It is hoped that the foreign students 
would take this opportunity to make 
themselves better known to each 
other, and thus appreciate the efforts 
of the school to that purpose.
An interview with the committee 
in charge of Carnegie’s new publi­
cation, the Carnegie Student Direc­
tory, revealed the welcome news 
that the prinier is now In possession 
of most of the copy and the job is 
being .rushed through at high speed.
In view of the fact that the value 
of the directory is measured by its 
accuracy, the committee is sparing 
no efforts to make the book as cor­
rect as aumanly possible. The job 
of checking and re-checking is keep­
ing a corps of men on the job at the 
printer's office and errors which 
crop out are immediately rectified.
Already plans are going forward to 
inaugurate an intensive sales cam­
paign, with the view or approaching 
every studant on the Campus. Ten­
tative plans have been drawn up by 
the Puppet staff, the organization1 
which will probably be in charge of 
sales.
We hope to be able to name a 
definite date on which the directory 
will make its appearance in the next 
issue of The Carnegie Tartan.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
amount of work done by the students, 
headed by Dave Porterfield, in the 
fall of 1922. The students sold tags 
and The Tartan appealed to the 
alumni, soliciting contributions. Car­
negie’s spirit prevailed, the quota was 
raised, and the new band appeared in 
kilts, amidst a stupendous ovation at 
the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game.
The activities of the band are not 
confined to football games, but in­
clude concerts and trips. Requests 
for engagements are received daily. 
The members have been guests at 
several social occasions this year. 
Several weeks ago they gave a short, 
concert in connection with "Pitt and 
Tech” night at the First Baptist 
Church, on Bellefield avenue, and, 
after the W. & .T. game, the members 
were guests of Jack Hallam, Carnegie 
alumnus, at a dinner and dance at 
Washington.
The band will make its annual trip 
to Mayvlew later in the fall, and a 
trip to Wheeling, W. Vo.., is under 
consideration.
The olllcers for the year are 1C. F. 
Sullivan, director; Davo Garber, 
manager; Shannon Owens, business 
manager; H. E. Sterling, secretary 
and treasurer; and Edward Cerutti, 
librarian.
I Major Edmund L. Daley, Corps of 
Engineers, United States Army, now 
in charge of the rivors and harbors 
of the Pittsburgh district, gave an 
interesting addross to tho* mombers 
of the Student Chapter of tho Amer­
ican Society of Civil Engineers, Wed­
nesday, October 22, 011 "Navigation 
of Rivers by Looks and Dams/' 
Major Daley statod that of tho 
three ways of aiding navigation on 
rivers, I hat is, dredging, regulation 
and canalization, the last montronod 
was used most in this dlstricl. Ho 
also remarked that although there 
are 'both fixed and movable .dams in 
the Pittsburgh district, tho latter are 
more popular as a better regulation 
of the height of the water is effect­
ed.
Tho movable dams are composed 
of wickets, built in such a way that 
in times of very high water they can 
be lowered and open river conditions 
prevail, in case of a small water 
flow, leakage between the wi,ckets is 
decreased by the insertion of wood 
fillers and straw, if necessary.
The speaker Stated, that the ton­
nage carried on the rivers around 
Pittsburgh in a year was greater 
than that carried through the Pan­
ama Canal for a’ like period and that 
the cost of shipping raw material by 
water was about one-sixth the cost 
of railroad transportation.
SENIORS SHOULD GET THEIR
PICTURES TAKEN AT ONCE
DRAMA DEPARTMENT WILL
BE HIGHLY HONORED
Pat:
Mike:
—Ex.
‘‘Got a thumb tack?”
"No, but I got a finger nail.”
fContinued From Page One.) 
evening performance, October 31, and 
a matinee, November 1.
Mr. Frederick Steen, a Carnegie 
graduate now employed by the Eddy 
Press Corporation of Wilkinsburg, 
who Is publicity agent for the conven­
tion, says, in commenting on the play: 
"All committees through whose hands 
the play was passed were very 
pleased with Mr. Hamilton's work. It 
is possible to produce thifj play for 
the convention only because of the 
unique situation existing in this city: 
a great university ideally located }n 
the social center of the community, 
embodying a drama department of ex­
ceptional ability, and imbued with a I 
| remarkable spirit of co operation.” 
Present at the convention for which 
The Thistle photographer’s local tjie ,,iay waK produced, will be men 
studio in Room 1*19 Industries, the j [nun every State in tho Union, lie- \ 
same place as last year, opens for the j aides representatives of several tor­
ching of Senior Pictures Tuesday, ! eign nations—the foremost author!- 
October 28. All Seniors must have j ties 011 the printing and advertising 
their pictures taken; come early and j professions the world over. It will
Every year, a class of several hun­
dred men is admitted to West 
Point. These men aro from every 
part of tho country and ovory walk 
of lifo. They are obtaining a lip- 
oral education with all oxponses 
paid, and are entering upon a caroor 
which loads to honor and service. 
Their success and advancement aro 
practically assured, tho only limiting 
factor being tho Individual quallil- 
cation of tho man.
These opportunities aro opon to 
every young man. West Point is 
eager to rocolvo tho young man with 
ambition and vision, and who do- 
&iros to fcorvo his country. Bach 
yoar, the .Senators and Representa­
tives In Congress nominnto candi­
dates from their rospoctlvo districts 
to take the entrance examinations, 
which aro hold in March, for a 
cadetship at West Point. Success­
ful appointees are then admitted to 
tho Academy July 1 of tho samo 
year.
Appointments are being mado dally 
However, ‘.hero are many cadetships 
which have, not been filled as yet. 
Many Senators and Representatives 
aro waiting frtr some one to apply 
for an appointment. The Military 
Dopartmont at Carnegie Is eager to 
assist and advise anyone who wishes 
to know the particulars or who do- 
siros an appointment.
FIVE HUNDRED BUYERS OF 
STATE TICKETS ARE REQUIRED
(Hontlnuod From Pago I) 
uppor-classmen and women as to tho 
good time to bo had on those trips 
and this year’s trip will cxcoll all 
former ones, so get your tlckots. 
Plebos, and got them quick!
The Athletic Association has ap­
pointed a representative in ovory sec­
tion of the four colleges to dispose 
of the prelftninn.Ty tickets. Thoy 
may also bo obtained as usual in tho 
offico of Buddy Overend from 11:30 
x. m. to 1:30 p. rn., and from 4:30 
to 5:30 p. m. Carnegio has ’never 
failed to bo represented by a largo 
choering ¡section at Penn State and 
this yey.r tho studeuts will back the 
team to iho limit.
As in former years, it is expected 
that many will make their way to 
Penn State by "hook or crook.” If 
the present weather continues, those 
students will have a hard lot. The 
Lincoln Highway to Altoona Is little 
traveled, from there to Lamont, the 
nearest town to 'State. If it is to 
bo "Penn State or bust,” it is ad­
vised to become busted buying a 
train ticket, thus being sure of get­
ting thare on time for the game, as 
well as of partaking in the fun and 
merrimeut 011 the train.
This trip is traditional! at Carne­
gie and 10 uphold tradition tho allot­
ted quota of preliminary tickets must 
be sold this week. Let’s put tliia 
year’s trip over with a loud bang. 
But don't delay- getting that ticket!
mont the Rod and Black put over 
their touchdown when defeat was 
sure, as Carnegio supporters saug: 
"Dear Old Toclt”. that brought to 
mind tho tales of passengers crowding 
to tho rails of sinking ships and sing­
ing as tho waves conio over them." 
Further on there is the sentenco: 
“A Carnegio game will never bo 
devoid of thrills os long as tho sup- 
porter3'*stay with them like that.” 
Didn’t it make tho blood run 
warmer through your veins?
Did you not feel mighty proud to 
be one of the mighty Clan that, can 
taste defeat and yet not lose heart. 
Ono of tho Clan that, backs its team, 
win or loso. Old alumni from ttio 
Tri-State district at the game must 
have felt overwhelmed at the solem­
nity of it, as tho notes rolled out: 
"—and when 1 am far away from 
Pittsburgh.
I’ll remember you. TECH. till I die.” 
We, tho present students, and in 
particular the underclassmen aro 
charged with an important duty and 
priVilege: To carry always the splr
it of tho Carnegie of former days on­
ward and transmit it to tho classes 
that are to follow. To carry 011 that 
spirit of STAY WITH THE TEAM.
Tho spirit of the school has always 
been to 'stay with tho toam.’ Turn 
to the Alumni Pago of this issue and 
you will find a tale of tho first Cur- 
negle-Pitt game. In those days it 
was U. U.'P. vs. C. T. S. Tho game 
ended one-sidod and on tho wrong 
sido at that, but at that game, tho 
fifty (50) Carnegio men prosont had 
that spirit. They rootod for tho 
team. They felt for tho team. They 
supported tho toam. They did every­
thing in their powvir to aid those 
cloven men on tho field, who wer®
fighting With all ttieir power and anil­
ity to establish • tho namo of Carnogle 
in the world of college- sports; it 
has been established. Today, the 
name of Carnegie is reckoned among 
the class A colloges in sports as well 
as In scholarship.
Contrast tho fifty men of 1906 with 
tho number rooting for Carnegie in 
the last Pitt-Carnegio gatno. Thoro 
wero fully fifteen thousand Carnogto 
supporters there, throo hundred times 
as many as In those oarly days. And 
all during thoso last threo quarters 
when things 'alternately, looked dark 
and bright tho spirit was tho sauio as 
in the oarly days.
A tribute from an outsidor like that 
is doubly valuable. Wo appreciate
tho motive behind it. A lot of praise 
was given us for tho spirit shown in 
the Pitt game, but anybody 'can cheer 
when they are winning; It is when 
the opponents are leading that it 
counts and that Is why all Carnegie 
men and women aro so proud of that 
tribute. That Is why wo aro resolved 
that Carnegie shall always Iceop that 
reputation as far as our individual 
ability goos.
Wo have some gruelling games on 
the schedule yet. Thoy will prob­
ably not all bo ended in our favor, 
but lot us always stay together with 
tho feelings which inspired us as wo 
sang last Saturday at Forbos Field.
"Mail, Carnegie, Alma Mater,
Stand ontlironod forevermore."
Lot us carry on For ^Uio Good of 
Carnegie.
IN OUR LETTER BOX
Dear Sir:
I11 tho issuo of tho Tartan for Octo­
bor 7th, a very interesting article ap­
peared rolativo to tho naming of tho 
girls dormitorios, and tho placing of 
appropriate name plates 011 tho differ­
ent housos. Thoso platos aro to ho 
mado of bronze, and aro fully de­
scribed In tho previous number.
Tho article In regard to tho Ro­
mance and tho salient points of tho 
affixing of those plates is substan­
tially correct; but an important error 
must bo rectified concerning tho 
bronzo tablets thomsolvos. Credit for 
doslgnlng and suporvlslng tho cast­
ing of tho plates has boon glvon to 
Mr. Dosey; and while It Is true that/ 
ho Is in chargo of tholr shaping, the 
honor for designing them falls upon 
anothor porson whoso name cansos 
instant recognition among our alumni, 
and many upper classmatos. Hor 
namo is Susan Watson Marshall, and 
sho was the first girl to graduate from 
Carnegie instituto of Technology, 
with a diploma In the course of In­
terior Docoratlon. Since that time, 
1912, she has booomo quite famous 
locally for hor sculpture and mural 
doooratlons. Rocontly sho designed 
tho Keller Memorial which Is now In 
the Arts building. The mural art 
work and practically all Interior dec­
orating of like nature In the New 
Sohenloy Thoatrn aro tho .results ot 
hor handiwork. Mrs. Marshall 1ms 
also.placod a rol io f of Lincoln in tho 
Directors Room of tho Alloghony 
County Soldiers Memorial. Sho now 
resides at Forbos Terraco, In this city, 
and makos a practice of hor profes­
sion. So tho girls will not only be as­
sured of tho best of artistic effort 
on the Identifications of tholr respec­
tive homes, but will also bo honored 
In having ono of tholr own alumnae 
as tholr doslgnor. H. L. M.
Dear Sir:
Showing the J?lob^gIr,ls ; tho Toch , 
campus by moonlight was not as sue- 
cossful as It might have been, thanks 
to the asslstanco of somo uninvited 
guosts. This asslstanco was not. so­
licited, and It certainly was, not to 
the credit of the 111011 who gave it. 
When It camo to showing tho Plobe3 
tholr places, wo always understood 
that tho Sophomores, mon and wo­
men, woro meant, to stick togothor as 
a class. Yet from nil tho superfiuous 
advice offorod, ih was, only too clearly 
demonstrated Wodnqsdny night' that 
tho Sophomorp mon—even olllcers ot 
tho class—-are all in favor of tho 
Plobo girls. Since thoso men do not 
seem to understand \yhon por^pnally 
asked not to Intorfono with Plobo- 
Sophomoro doings among the women, 
we, as a clan, ask tho men to let. 
tho women mauago their own Plebe 
affairs. If. R W. F.
Tho Singer Pen nnti Gift Shop In 
tho Jonklnn Arondo will give you roa- 
oonnblo prlcon on oalllng cardn, dnnco 
program«, fnvoro, uohool plnn, rings, 
pillow topn, etc. Thoy oan repair your 
old fountain pen or uoll yoM a bettor 
ono.—Adv.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clydo Street, noar Fifth Avenue
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M.
Wednesday, 8 1*. M.
Sunday School. 1'1 A, M.
That’s That
The tea dance last week afforded a 
splendid chance for the boys to meet 
the girls although somo of the fel­
lows were unnecessarily bashful. The 
next time get there oarly and if you 
have a good time tell Dean Brown 
about It. Maybe she will give them 
oftoner If you do.
Somo of tho Plebos are taking the 
Plebe trials as too much of a joko. 
It Is 110 laughing matter as somo of 
the boys will tell you. If this atti­
tude of hilarity on the part of tho 
Plebos continues the Sophs will have 
to bear down a bit harder. The trou­
ble Is that some folks just don’t' real­
ize when they aro getting off easy.
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dithridge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Blblo Class ................................0:45
Sormons for Students at 11 A.M. 
Loaguo of Youth at G:30 P. M.
avoid the rush. Hours 10 a. m. to 4 
p. m. The staff requests your co­
operation in this matter. Don’t de­
lay.
present a golden opportunity for Car­
negie to make new friends—friends 
whose ability as advertisers cannot be 
doubted—throughout the laud.
The tennis tournament is progress­
ing and if it wasn't for the fact that 
some of tho boys are not so good 
there would bo a few Tildons brought 
to light.. But really you can’t expect 
a man to exert himself unnecessarily 
to defeat such an inferior opponent, 
why last year if I hadn’t slipped I 
would liavo beaten any of the men 
that were on the tennis team. You 
see the judges wanted the other man 
to win and so I didn’t have a chance.
The football dances have acquired 
an enviablo degree of popularity 
They are given every Saturday night 
that Carnegie plays at. home. The 
place of the gathering is the Union in 
tho Central Building. To pass the 
portals it is necessary to cross tho 
palm of the gont at, tho door with 
?1.2li and one person of tho couple 
must present a Carnegio registration 
card. This last Is to lnsuro tho fact 
that none but the Carnegio crowd are 
present.
You folks who have been missing 
the talks In tho chapel have certainly 
lost out 011 a mighty good thing as 
anyone that bus been going can toll 
you. The Plebos especially would be 
Interested and benoilttod, although 
none of us are so good that we can 
afford to miss them. The talks only 
last about fifteen minutes, but it is 
! fifteen minutes of well spent time, 
Mr. Hughes—(expecting the answer j H0 iet’H have every body take the timo
of respiration). John, v/hat is it | and go to the next one.
called when, one breathes in and out?” ~
J. Harter—“Snoring.” 'PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS,
I
XIN oL6C AREGSSN6 TG66U
FLOVER SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbea
| Oakland Savings & f 
Trust Co.
•{• Member Federal Reservo 
System.
*{• Capital -  ...................$300,000.00
.j. Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
8AFE DEP08IT BOXES 
FOR RENT
L08T AND FOUND
Iviat—Largo, fiat, brown pocket- 
book containing bank book and check 
made nit to El Inoro E, Wilson. Will 
the finder please turn it In to re- 
reiving office.
Found—One fontaln pen in Carne­
gie bowl. Looser leave description at 
Tartan office.
I 
i
VTENUS 
PENCILS
C1k tuywf xltinj Q]VÍ¡¡jf 
jwniit in tl<e truld
T^OR tho student or prof., tho 
¦¦ hiipcrb VENUS outrrivulH 
nil for perfcct pcricil work. 
17 hlijck d«gr««B—J copying. 
American Lcuri 
Pencil Co.
Writ« for booltlct on 
NDCESU RY,,VMMD¡ and .

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. OCTOBER 28. 192-*THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
- PLAID ATHLETICS -
Beede Makes 15-Yard Gain Through Right Side On Spinner PlayPENN STATE 
SPECIAL NEEDS 
500 STUDENTS
PITCXHARRIERS 
DEFEAT TARTANS
Dykeman Comes in First But 
Teammates Are Far in 
Rear—Plebes Win
VAN ATTA COPS FALL 
TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP
The Plaid cross-country team ush­
ered in their season ¦with a 20-35 de­
feat at the hands of Pitt last Satur­
day morning over tho Schenley Park 
A. A U. course. The day -was ideal 
for running except for a slight fog. 
Tho Slcibo team trotted from the gym­
nasium to the foot of Flagstaff Hill 
at exactly 11 o'clock,-to find the Pitt 
squad already there and -warming up.
At. the bark of the starter’s gun 
the long run began with a dash for 
the top of the hill; the runners keep­
ing well together. The first mile saw 
no let up in the terrific pace which 
proved to bo the undoing of the Plaid 
squad. Carnegie’s harriers had not 
learned to run tho first part of the 
course at that speed. Several of the 
men knew this and held tmclc a bit, 
¦with the result that they were able 
to speed up lator on. Three or four 
of the Tartan’s best men were, how? 
ever, on this account fatigued early In 
the race.
“Howdy’’ Dykeman avenged his de­
feat by..Ted .Corbett -last spring in 
the Carnegie-Pitt meet, by beating 
Corbett very decisively. These two 
of the foremost distance runners of 
the Bast battled the six-mile course 
out, stride for stride, Dykeman win­
ning in the last mile witn a remark­
able burst of speed.
All the credit of the victory belongs 
to tho Pitt team; everyone of their 
men ran fine races and displayed an 
unrivaled spirit of good sportsman­
ship and courtesy at all points of the 
course.
The order of finishing was as fol­
lows: Dykeman, Carnegie (time
28:54, a new course, record); Kerr, 
Lies, Corbett, Schroedel, Watkins, 
Howell, all of Pitt; Peck, Carnegie; 
Powell, Pitt; Bright, Carnegie; De 
Jesus, Carnegie; Wick, Pitt; Himes, 
Foller, Ewing, Lustenbergor, Lock­
hart, Benko, Palumbo, Kimmell, of 
Carnegie*
Carey Proctor and his corps of as­
sistants handled the meet in an ad­
mirable manner.
Plebes Win First.
The Plebe cross-country team de-
,,Ro<T’ Van Atta won the school ten­
nis title by defeating "Ted” Moessner 
G-2; S-6; 6-4. This victory brought 
to a close one of the most interesting 
fall tennis tournaments ever held at 
Carnegie. Practically every match 
was a sight to the finish, the finals es­
pecially bringing out the best and 
hardest. pLayed tennis during the 
tornament.
Van Atta had just enough of an 
edge over Moessner to cop the cham­
pionship. A large majority of the 
games went to deuce, but Van usually 
succeeded in pulling the game out of 
the fire. Both men displayed an abil­
ity to kill the ball. Moessner lost the 
match when he constantly failed to 
handle his racquet right at the net. 
He mussed up many overhead smash­
es and volleyed very badly at time's.
Van Atta won his way into the fin­
als by defeating Greenwood 6-3; 6-1. 
Moessner defeated Kemery 15-13; 
6-4, in a hard played match. Van 
Atta will bo presented with the cup 
at General Assembly in the near fu­
ture.
feated the. Sacred Heart High School 
harriers in a meet held last Thursday 
afternoon. The first nine places were 
taken by the Plaid Freshmen. Three 
miles of extremely difficult territory 
comprised the course, and it was evi­
dent from the outset that the East 
Liberty boys were outclassed.
The runners finished as follows: 
Crawford, (time 16-32); Hobey, 
Kersh, Sponseller, Jacobs, Reuben, 
Taylor, Hockenbury, Weaver, Martin 
(the first Sacred Heart man), Reeves, 
Carnegie; McGrath, Kingsley, and tho 
remainder of the visitor’s team.
One of the pleasing features of tho 
Plebe team is that tho first three men 
usually finish about fifteen feet apart, 
and make very good time over the 
three mile course. This will mean 
a lot when a first class team is en­
countered.
Crawford was elected captain of the 
Freshman harriers shortly after the 
race at a meeting held in tho locker 
rooms. He hails from Tyrone, Pa., 
and previous to coming to Carnegie 
had not run any distance greater than 
the mile. He is expected to develop 
into another Dykeman.
B. Scanlon—"I had a nut Sundae.” 
E. Taylor—“I have one calling to­
night."
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists' and Engineers’ Mate­
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry. ' 
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
TheSlickestCoatontheCampus!
(Sftlnda^fSiud&rit; 
iF&icj&l.
No well dressed college man ia 
¦without one. It’s the original, 
correct slicker and there’s noth­
ing as smart or sensible for 
rough weather and chilly days.
Made of famous yellow water­
proof oiled fabric. Has all«’round strap on collar and elas­
tic at wrist-bands.
Clasp-closing style 
Button-closing style
Stamp the correct name in your memory, and buy no other.
The “Standard Student” is 
made only by the Standard 
Oiled Clothing Co., N. Y. C 
Slip one ou at
“AT ALL GOOD DEALERS”
WESTERNMARYLAND 
HERE FATHER’S DAY
PLEBES BEATEN BY PITT 
FRESHMEN; SCORE 41-0
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Dats Drag Storjp
Visitors Have Lost Only One 
Game This Season—Have 
Scoring Machine
One of the biggest events of Fatti- 
er’s Day next Saturday will be tho 
clash between the Carnegie grldders 
and the strong Western Maryland 
eleven on our own field. A section of 
the grandstand Is reserved for fath­
ers and sons so that they, can all get 
together for the game.
When Western Maryland was 
scheduled last fall, the game was con­
sidered a soft spot in a tough sched­
ule. But Western Maryland has 
proved its mettle this year. In their 
first game with Fredricks College, one 
of the largest scores of the season 
was run up by the Western Maryland 
grldders, the score being 100-0. Buck- 
nell was held to a 6 to 0 score. Con­
sidering the caliber of tho Bucknell 
team, this certainly indicates tho 
strength of our opponents.
After the trouncing our Carnegie 
footballers handled the Pitt Panther 
a let-up is liable to rosult in tho Plaid 
camp. Any sign on tho part of tho 
boys to take things easy will surely 
spell disaster. Just such a thing hap­
pened last year when Carnegie eased 
up after defeating Pitt and lost to 
Lehigh 13-6. In order to win Car­
negie must keep on their toes and 
fight just as hard and determinedly 
as they did last Saturday.
The game will, be called at 3 
o’clock and tho largest crowd of tho 
season is oxpected at the Carnegie 
Bowl.
Scores made by Western Maryland 
so far are:
Western Maryland 100—Fredricks 
College 0.
Western- Maryland 0—Bucknell 6.
Western Maryland 19 — George 
Washington 0.
Western Maryland 13—St. John’s 0.
R. O. T. C. REVIEWED BY
MAJOR A. C. M’BRIDE
(Continued from Page Ono) 
from West Point. He is in charge of 
tho rivers in the vicinity of Pitts­
burgh, and has made a thorough study 
and examination of all river prob­
lems in his jurisdiction. Consequent­
ly, he is an authority. on Pittsburgh 
river conditions. His lecture was 
very interesting. The subjects he dis­
cussed were locks, dams, barges and 
river navigation.
“Ive come to fix that old tub in 
the kitchen.”
“Oh. mamma. Here's the doctor to 
see the cook:”—Harvard Lampoon.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat- | 
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 o’clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
On the Plaid Screen
Badly outplayed, but never out- 
gamed or outfought, the Carnegie 
Tech Plebes last Saturday went down 
to defeat before the smashing attack 
of tho Panther Freshmen. The latter 
were favored to win before the gamo 
on account of their greater weight 
and wealth of material, and though 
the Plebes put all they had into tho 
game, they were powerless to stop- 
the well-drilled machine of their op­
ponents. The score was 41-0.
The game was played as a prelimi­
nary to the Carnegie-Pitt varsity con­
test and held the interest of the crowd 
all the way. After tho first five min­
utes it was apparent that the Tartans 
had but Binall chance of winning, but 
tho way in which they set themselves 
to keep tho Panther score as low as 
possible drew the admiration and 
hearty support of the great throng 
watching. Arising from tho bottom 
of every pile-up, they doggedly throw 
themselves into the next play with a 
determination and fight worthy of a 
better ending.
It was only a few minutes after the 
game started before the Pitt Froshies 
had their first touchdown. Electing 
to receive, Pitt returned tho ball to 
their 30-yard line, from whence it 
was advanced to tho Carnogio 42- 
yard mark. Here Booth brolco
through tho Plaid lino and ran for a 
touchdown. Tho next scoro came 
about through judicious use of a 
woll thrown pass and hard lino-buck­
ing. Two more touchdowns reaultod 
in the first half, Pitt roplaclng Its reg­
ulars with socond-strlng men in tho 
second quarter.
Beginning tho last half, tho Pan­
thers scored twico more but that ond- 
ed It. For the remainder of tho game 
tho Plobos kept their goal lino Intact, 
and in tho fourth quarter mado a de­
termined threat to score. Rosorting 
to a passing gamo, tho ball waH 
worked down to tho Pitt 8-yard lino, 
but,there the best efforts of tho Tar­
tans were unavailing against tho Pan- 
tlior lino. Hoss proved a good ro- 
coivor in the aerial attack.
Tho Carnegie Plobes had no Indi­
vidual stars of the fray, ovory man 
on tho team playing tho best ho know 
how. P’or tho Pitt Frosh Welch, 
Booth and Salata shono out above 
their mates. The Pitt Freshmen this 
year boast of one of the host Fresh­
man teams in their history, and 
should greatly strengthen tholr var­
sity next year. The lineup:
Pitt Frosh—41 Carneglo Plobes—0
Sargent.............. L. E.......................Langfltt
Kern..................... L. T............................Allen
Breen................. L. G....................Comaclc
Goldberg.............. C...............................Neff
Fisher................ R. G. .......................Johnson
Salata (C.)------- R. T......................Marshall
Roberts.............. R. E. .. .Weaver (C.)
Cutler..................Q. B...................Sebastian
Hoban............... L. H................Grosskloss
Welsh................ R. H. .Schaunchency
Booth.................. F. B..............................Hess
Score by quarters:
Pitt ................................21 7 13 0—41
'Substitutions—For Pitt: . Scanlon 
for Sargent, Demoise for Roberts, Sei­
fert for Breen, Fyock for Booth, Was- 
muth for Kern, Aggers for Cutler, 
Grindle for Welsh, S'mith for Grindle, 
Hochensmith for Goldberg. Rose for 
Hoban. For Tech: Fishblen for
Neff, Venger for Marshall.
Touchdowns—Booth 2, Hoban, 
Welsh, Fyock, Smith.
Point after touchdown—Hoban 4 
(placement); Fyock (placement).
Officials—Referee, Audley McFar­
land, W. & J.; umpire, Carl Rebelo, 
Allegheny High; head linesman, 
man, James Mates, Allegheny College.
Time of quarters—15 minutes.
J. F. CHRISTOFF
CARNEGIE VICTORY DESERVED
For the first time in the history of tho two schools Pitt was primod for 
tho Carnegie battle. Last year, as in other years beforo that, the Carnegie 
game was looked upon merely as a practice tilt. The 7-2 victory of last 
year, however, put the Tartans in a commanding position, with Pitt on the 
offensivo; the Scotch held the city championship, the Panther had to take 
it away.
With these facts in view, it will bo seen that heretofore Pitt was never 
“set,” or “on edge” for this particular fracas as sho was last Saturday. 
It’ there was one thing abovo all others this season Pitt wantod to do it 
was to trim Carnegie, The Panther wont into tho l’ray with that in mind— 
how well she 9uccoeded is now history.
Tho Tartans nevor had to meet a moro dotormlnod, harder smashing or 
powerful crew than Pitt last Saturday. Truly our success is a wonderful 
accomplishment, a great achievement.
PITT HAS NEVER BEEN BEATEN
Three times in a row by an opposing football team. Can tho Slclbos 
accomplish this feat noxt year? We should ho stronger by fur noxt soason, 
as only three men will bo lost; but Pitt also will bo much strongor. judging 
from tho strength of their freshman team this fall. It will 1)0 SOME battlo.
JUST A REMINDER
Buddy Ovorend tells mo that reservations for soats at tho Notre Damo 
game are coming in fast, and that any Btudenta or alumni wishing tlckota 
should make reservations at once by sonding in a chock and solf-addroaaod 
stamped envelope. Remembor, first come, first served.
MOUNTAIN VIEW INNINGS:
That Number of Preliminary 
Tickets to Be Sold Before 
Train Can Be Chartered — 
QuotaFar Short of MarkYet
GET YOUR PRELIM NOW
AH «board 1 Penn Stato Special!! 
That's the only thing we’ll be able 
to hear in the next two weeks. Every­
one is talking about the Special, let's 
all get behind the old train and push 
her right along by buyiug our pre­
lim tickota ahead of time.
The dope is all set tor the Special 
as everyone should know* by this time. 
The train leaves the station down­
town around eight o’clock in the 
morniug, and gets to State College in 
plenty of time for ovoryone to eat and 
get to tho game. The train will take 
us within a mile or ao of the field, 
and aa we get off the train wo will 
line up behind that famous old Kiltie 
Band and march to State College. 
Imagine a parade a milo long, and 
that is what it will be, with all tho 
colors flowing and waving, and all 
that true Carnegie Tech spirit in tho 
air and you not there. Let’s got that 
prelim ticket today.
After the fight that tho team put up 
againat Pitt, we all ought to ho will­
ing to travel across tho contlnont- to 
yell for our team, but this trip is only 
up to Stato College, and nono of us 
can afford to miaa it.
Wo havo a good chance to beat 
Ponu Stato this year, everyone real­
izing what this would moan to Car­
nogio. Think liovr wo could look baolc 
in aftor years and toll how wo, tho 
rootora put tho thing acroaa. Wo 
must aoll five hundred tlckota boforo 
wo can run this Special. Tho tickets 
aro selling fairly woll now, but lot's 
all got bohlnd tho drive those noxt 
fow days and show tho touui what a 
real bunch of supportora tho Car­
nogio rootora aro.
The trip to tho country last wook cortalnly did tho toam a world of PmvrnAI , D, "
good. Tho boys never felt bottor before a gamo. Fresh air, good food, r-UUIUALL players to 
plenty of sleep and no oxcltoment did tho trick. BE AT DANCE IN UNION
(Continuod From Pago Ono) 
inclination or dotdro or ability to 
trod tlw) polishod floor« should bo 
thoro for several reason«. First, 114 
glvoa you an opportunity to cole- 
brato oop victory and congratulate 
and condolo the respective winners 
and loaors of tho fooball fray. Soo- 
ond, you will bo treated to some 
olansy danco umalo, for the syncopa* 
tiona will ho i'urnislvod by olthor tho 
Collegia to Imp« or tho Teclmon's, 
and In olthor ovont it will be a tront. 
Third, tho dancoa are held tov tjw> 
benefit of U10 Athletic Asso.ul&ilton 
and it gives tho student a chanco to 
bo loyal and support ouir Alma Mator. 
So for thoiw) roaaons everyone Is 
urged to assemble at tho Union in, 
Contral Building from nine to twelve 
on tho opening night of No.vombor 
for a roal time.
Oh, Just a minute, don’t, forgot to 
bring a omall dollar with a quarter 
to match, and your registration card, 
which by this time, with Its many 
perforations, will begin to look like 
Homer’s Odyssey written in Braille 
lottors.
When wo gathorod at the East Liberty station Thursday night a strong 
odor of Spanish Bermudas porvadod tho atmosphoro. Upon investigation wo 
found that tho odor emanated from tho poraon of Doan Munhn.ll. “I had to 
oat onions tills evening for strength to take care of you boys on this trip,” 
said Bert. He snro noodod it.
Some of us woro alarmed when “Butch” Bortonborgor and “Bull” Yowor 
wont for a walk together Friday ovonlng. “Is there going to bo a slaughter,” 
we asked. “Not until tomorrow,” said Wort.
Most oil tho boys parkod underneath ono of the windows along tho sldo 
oil tho hotel and soronadod “Annie” in voices ranging from melodious to 
raucous 011 Thursday night. But “Boss Munholmor” soon dispersed the gal­
lant band.
Dyke Boedo rofusod to start oponlng up on his usual fund of snappy 
stories Thursday night. “Wo’vo got to got a lot of aloep If wo want tp lick 
Pitt,” lio remarked.
Tho hilco Friday morning dlscloaod many things of varied lutofost— 
fanner threshing oats—numerous horses in the Holds—apple orchards with­
out apples—stealing grapos—cows on tho hillside—dead chicken 011 road— 
tourist repairing puneturod tube—rolling lillls—shy farmers’ ohlldron—a 
coal mine.
Tho boys woro. cortalnly pleased with tho treatment accorded thom by 
tho hotol management Thoy would llko to go back there again.
FAMOUS POET AND
AUTHOR TO SPEAK
(Continued From Page One)
Sun, says of him: “He is an admir­
able critic; also, tasteful, subtle, 
sympathetic and profound. I have 
been told by aomo of those who were 
privileged to hear him at Cambridge 
University that they had never listen­
ed to discourses so rich) so penetrat­
ing, so illuminating.”
There Is no doubt that those of us" 
who make it our business to bo in the 
Union on the afternoons of November 
5, 6 and 7, will garner some valuable 
thoughts from this dreamer, “whose 
real world aeema to be a dream world 
of elusive beauty, beyond or beneath 
the world of sense, In which the poet 
is the only man loft awake.”
Wanted—A dancing partner, blonde 
preferred.
FRESHMAN EQUESTRIANS
ATTRACT VAST THRONGS
(Continued From Pago One.) 
lug, though critical, eyes of tho 
throngs which line Woodlawn avenuo 
during tho luncheon hour.
Tho costume of the riders savors of 
the heather and thistle, rather than 
of Bond street, and, in the opinion of 
eminent turfmen, the action of their 
mounts Is somewhat wooden, yet tho 
interest among the spectators is aa 
great as that prevailing at Ascot or 
Belmont Park.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
COLUMBIA PROFE88OR
TO TALK ON LITERATURE
(Continuod From Pago Ono)
Thla performance is of special In­
terest to Carnogio, as tho loading 
juvenile rolo, Captain Jack Absolute, 
will ho playod by Kenneth Thomson, 
and tho settings havo boon designed 
by David Gaither, both former stu­
dents in tho Department of Drama.
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIQ 
Jerry, Manager.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All now and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
We Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoos Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets * I 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
Don’t Feed the Moths!
An evening suit is used only about four times a year. 
We can RENT you a Tuxedo any time you need It for 
a very low price. Think it over.
Telephone Schenley 0870-J 
Approved Marinello Shop 
Marcel Waving—Manicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
T reatments.
314 FORBE8 BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE Olii) AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE, CITY 
Smithfield 0341 Hour*—8:30 to 5:30
.tan
ipp'
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
V •>•;*•> *X”>v <**> •>** V vv*;*v *>v v emb
I
COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOUR-rHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 28r 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
J0
REMEMBER, IT IS CARNEGIE- NOT “TECH”
Penn State Special 
Will Carry Alumni
Special Train Will Carry 
Carnegie Rooters
FATHERS AND MOTHERS 
WILL BE ENTERTAINED
Arrangements for the alumni 
tend the Penn State-Carnegie game 
November 8, at State College, have 
been completed. The plans were an­
nounced in a statement today by H. 
P. Rasshacb, who has charge of all 
the student trips.
Railroad tickets can be purchased 
at the graduate manager’s office in the 
new gymnasium after November 1, 
for $6.2-0. This is the cheapest rate 
Carnegie has ever been able to ob­
tain for the State trip. The regular 
round trip is almost twice as much.
Five hundred are needed to insure 
this fare but since this game is the 
renewal of relations between the 
Plaid and the Bezdeck proteges af­
ter the lapse of a season, there seems 
little doubt the necessary number 
will apply , for reservations. Those 
¦who find it impossible to see Buddy 
Overend. ean- mail in their requests.
The non-stop special pulls out of 
the Union station at eight a. m. It 
starts the return journey at seven p. 
m. and will arrive here about mid- 
nigbL The train is made up of ten 
coaches.
Penn State is the traditional game 
of the school, and it is the one big 
student trip'of the year. Make the 
best of your chance alumni. Here is 
a real opportunity to display the Car­
negie spirit you all know so well.
The Btrength of the Nittany . Lion 
has been brought home only too for­
cibly; Hop along alumni and see the 
old Alma Mater stack up against their 
heretofore victorious foemen with 
prospect of upsetting the dope.
Our fathers and mothers are going 
to bo with us for the second annual 
Father’s Day. Many provisions have 
been made to insure returns com­
mensurate with the time they will 
. have spent here. The fraternities 
t0 at-' 1,are giving lunches in the afternoons;
ANNUAL BANQUET NOW 
BEING PLANNED HERE
The annual Clan banquet, whic-h 
is held after football season, will be 
held, again this year. It is desired, 
by the committee, that the members 
of the Clan co-operate to a greater 
extent than in the past, in ordor that 
and a Dig dinner will take place eVent may be more successful
that night. They can wander about oyer 1>efore. !n pr0vl0u3 years,
the Institute to see the facilities; .
they can so to the iootbaB games to the committee had lacked the support 
raa thft Plobes and tho ’Varsity in of inaa>' of ^ members, and conse-to the Little 1 queatly the attendance was far below , ule of that first year was our frioud-
CARNEGIE TARTAN ’CARNEG IGDTOI YCAO 
TELLS OF FIRST: LARGER THAN BEFOBE
GAME WITH PITT;
When tho football season oponed, 
there was a small representation of 
Alumni present. But as tuo season is 
advancing and tho games take onExciting Contest of 1906 Pro- ja keener aspect, the Alumni are re*
vided Many Thrills For 
Small Audience
Carnegie’s first football team was 
organized in 1906, and on tho sclied-
action; they can go¡ what it should have been.
The committee is beginning
ly enemy from tho Other- H ilk Tho 
to University of Pittsburgh was at1 that
I_60Sa tSSutr dty,_NoI
atv y,em ItyuNatv
Theater to see a play put on by the j
Drama Department, and finally they , . . - , , 1 . , -nr *___can see the students In their social '™rk hari to have things ready tor ¦ time known as the Western Uuhor- 
danc© I tlie , Alumni gathering, and to make sity of Pennsylvania. Their athletics
the banquet a success. Unless the I were more firmly established than 
co-operation of the members be i were sports at Carnegie and eouse- 
| greater, it is feared- that tho work quently Pitt had the advanUigo of 
’ which is being done, by the com-; better training, 
mitiee, will) be fruitless. In order Tjie contest was held at otd Rec-
that the Clan banquet of this year j reation Park, situated at the foot of 
may stand out above those of the, Robinson street, where tho Pitts- 
past, ev.*iy member must got behind | burgh baseball owner, Barney Drey- 
the affair right now, with Carnegie fU8St ha,j j,i8 Pirate team. An
spirit, and keep pushing until the immense crowd of 1,500 people at-
life at the football dance.
The theater tickets can be bought 
at tlie rsgistration desk; those for 
the dinner at Alumni Office, the Y. 
M. C. A., or at Margaret Morrison. 
If you have not already sent a 
mimigraphed copy of an invitation 
from President Baker, get one at 
G. A. Tilbrook’s office.
Father's Day, Saturday, November 1, 
1924.
9:00 to 12:00 A. M.—Central Build­
ing. Registration of Parents. In­
spection of Campus, Dorms, Frats.
12:00 N. — Commons and Frat. 
Houses. Lunheon.
1:00 P. M.—Carnegie Field. Foot­
ball, California Normal rs. Plebes; 
W. Maryland vs. Carnegie.
6:00 P. M.—Commons. Dinner and 
Entertainment. Speeches by Dr. 
Baker, ‘•Wally,’’ Steffen, Professor 
Kirkpatrick. Entertainment by Col­
legiate Imps, “Obie” Newman, etc.
8:15 P. M.—Little Theater. De­
partment of Drama presents "One in 
Every Home,” by Harry Hamilton.
9:00 P. M.—Union. Football dance.
SUPPER DANCES HELD
IN HOTEL SCHENLEY
(Continued From Page One.)
But of course if you think It advisa- 
and you may steep them clear of Dr. 
Geckler’s headquarters. The Com­
mons, Carnegie Inn and the various 
fraternities will offer accommodar 
tions for lunch. In the afternoon 
there will be two football games; 
the plebes wilil meet California Nor- 
nal aa a preliminary to tho Varsity 
Western Maryland game. There will 
also be a crosscountry match be­
tween Carnegie and Allegheny.
After the game there will be a 
Father and Son dinner in the Com­
mons. This will be followed by a 
little music and * some short and 
snappy entertainment. Brookmeyer 
and Jennings are in charge of tho 
sale of these tickets. They may be 
obtained at Mr. G. L. Tilbrook’s of­
fice, the t’. M, C. A. or at the Mar­
garet Morrison office.
After the dinner there will) be a 
play In tho Little Theater of tho 
College of. Fine Arts. Tickets for 
thi9 may be obtained by the parents 
at the time of registration in tho 
Central Building. There will be a 
dance for the. students in the Union.
Don’t forget th3 school and all the 
buildings conneoted with it will be 
thrown open for- inspection.
The management of the Hotel 
Schenley is to be heartily congratu­
lated on securing the services of ono 
of the nationally famous Meyer Da­
vis Orchestras for the coming season,
In addition to the concert every 
evening in the main dining room, 
there will be a series of eight Satur­
day evening supper dances in the 
Rose Room. The first of these, on 
November lBt, opens the social sea­
son at the Schenley and promises to 
be a brilliant affair. An interesting 
feature of these dances will be the 
exhibition dances in costumo given by 
professionals well versed in the art 
of modern dancing.
A unique innovation, introduced 
perhaps for the first time in Pitts­
burgh, will be the series of eight com­
plimentary (Sunday evening concerts 
of classical and semi-classical num­
bers played by this same orchostra. 
These concerts begin at 9 p. m. and 
will be held in the Schenley ball room.
banquet of this year is made the 
largest and best ever held.
PLAID PUNCTURES
PITT'S PRESTIGE
(Continued From Page One)
tended that initial fray. Of that 
number, about fifty of them were 
Carnegie Toch men, and seventy or 
so were from Pitt All the rest were 
neutral spastators. A fight, not unu­
sual at these mootings, almost en­
sued when some of the rooters ol>-
the Panther been made to grovel igjjjgj to [hu play|DK ot one of the 
at the feet of the Scotchmen, and pltt
i The game was pltayed on an ex- 
1 ceedingly slippery field, under the 
worst possible conditions, tho mud
truly have the latter come into their 
own.
How was all this accomplished?
Briefly, tlie Tartans received the . . , , . „, . ,, , , being ankle deep on tho gridiron,opening kiekofi. a-nd immediately pro- °
ceeded to make two first downs. Itwith a driving rain most of ,the time.
seemed that Steffen’s pet plays and ,The ooaoh for Carnegie’s first team
r .. ,, . , . , , i was Harry Frey, and the llneui/ was:formations could not be stopped, and
the thousands of Carnegie rooters J Carnegie. W. U. P.
whose spirits had been considerably Borland .............L.E.... McCormick
dampened during the Plebe-Pitt Foster ...............LT................. Waddell
Freshman game, took a new lease Decker .............LG........................... Zleg
on life. This was short-lived, how- Kann ...................C.......................... Turner
ever, for with the ball on Carnegie’s Grafton ..............R. G........... McKinney
40-yard line, the Tartans fumbled on Henderson ........It. T................ Eggorton
an attempted end run and Pitt recov- Beeken ..............It. E......................... Fryo
ered. Here Pitt started a slashing Shauib ..................Q. B................. Bolssoau
line attack which placed the ball Urling .. .........L. H................ Springer
within the 10-yard line. But Carne­
gie stiffened and held for downs 
on the three-yard line and Newman 
punted out of danger. Pitt was 
again held and punted. Another 
Tartan fumble gave tlie ball to tho 
Panthers on tlie Carnegie 12-yard
Dowling 
Ramp ..
.... ILH____ W. Banbury
... .F. B..................Clancy
The Thistle for <1906, In ¿peaking 
of this game says: "Old W. U. P. 
expected a walkover, but was treat­
ed to a surprise. It war, with the
line. Again tho Plaid line held for greatest difficulty that W. U. P.
downs, and again Newman punted! managed to secure on touchdown in 
out of danger. Manby intercepted, the first half. In the socond, liow- 
a Pitt pass on the Carnegie iiO^yard i over, Carnegie was ‘all in,’ tho lack 
line. It waB here that Beedo un-' of training manifested Itself, W. U, 
leashed his Herculean run of 62 P. rolling the score up to 31 to 0.”
yards. He was slowed up in shak- Carnegie, you see, gave Pitt a
ing off tacklers all the way up tho j surprise then, she gavo Pitt a Bur-
field, and Schmidt finally nailed him | prise on Saturday,, and she will eon- 
on Pitt’s two-yard line. After Beedo tinuo to give Pitt a surprise aB long
spopdiug li> tho "Cull of Football." 
Tlioy como to seo choir Alma. Mater 
"Fight, for the Glocy of Carnogie,” 
and incidentally do thoir own part 
by helping to keep Carnegie’s spirit 
intact.
At the W. & J. game tho first real 
impetus of Alumni spirit was felt 
and since theu, thoir interest has been 
increasing. Notices of Clan meet­
ings, daneas and home-comings have 
quickened the advance salo of Alum­
ni tickets for the Penn State, Quun- 
tico, Mariuos and Notre Dame games.
A largo advance sale was mado for 
the Pitt-Carnegie game and an 
equally largo ono is expected for 
the Quantlco Marine and Notre Damo 
gjime.
LEO STIMMLER ELECTED
PRES. OF MUSICAL CLUB
HOOT MON!! ONCE MOREI!!
The game was a Wonder.' Pitt can­
not come back with any alibis this 
time. Yesterday Pittsburgh was 
changed into a small college town as 
the students paraded all the way from 
school to the downtown district. 
Alumni by the hundreds wore present 
and got the thrill of thoir lives when 
they' saw Beedo carry the ball for 
the sixty-two yard run. If you were 
not here you are much more to be 
pitied than censured.
"Is the world round?” a school 
ma’am asked the little boy.
“No’m,” said he.
"It isn’t, eh? It is flat, then?” 
“No’m.”
“Are you crazy, child? If the world 
isn’t round and isn’t flat what is it?” 
"Pop says it’s crooked," said the 
little boy.
Damon—
“What did Professor Smith mean 
thLs morninp when he told you 
that no man could ever .make a 
silk puree out of a eow’e ear?" 
Pythias—
“I-le meant that I'd never be able 
to do good.work with a poor pencil. 
Guess I’ll have to get a Dixon's 
Eldorado. -Did Smity says it’s the 
best .drawing pencil made.”
ELffibO
17 leade—all dealers
Are You 
Planning a Happy 
Celebration?
U-iruiritA.
¿Tech Flourer Sho]
4527 FORBES ST. MM craB.W. HAAS PHONE SCHEMI'^prrrswRwgjgg? -4272 r~
«0—
Smiles 
^ back at
Tech Shoe 
Repairing
Goodyear Welt System 
Try us first.
4523 FORBES ST. 
Near Craig
THE FRATERNITY 
OF bUS IN ESS
B*Kin now to form the asaoelatlona 
and habitB that will serve you when 
you enter tho buaineBB world. A 
bunk account, anldo from the tan­
gible value, furnlflhc-H experience 
and contacts which will operate to 
your advantage in later yeara.
The personal interest of Mellon of­
ficers in the financial welfare of 
depositors is ono of die outstanding 
characteristics of tho institution. 
Our experience and business jud«- 
ment are at your service.
Capital and Surplus 
$13,000,000.00
Mellon National bank
Pittsbufr*(5h, Pa.
had hit center for more than, a yard, 
Newman on what looked like an­
other center buck took tho ball from 
Beede and plunged through right 
tackle for tho touchdown which 
spelled defoat for tho Blue and Gold. 
Needless to say the stands went 
wild.
Though, thero was no more scor­
ing, there were thrills and tense mo­
ments aplenty during tho remainder 
of tho game. Pitt’s beef and brawn 
counted for much all the way up the 
field on \several marches until within 
the shadows of tho Carnegie goal 
posts. Here Manby, who had been 
playing out of the line, took his 
place between the two guards, thus 
fillilng the gaping h61e through which 
the heavy Panther backs had been 
diving, and each time was Pitt stop­
ped. It was a typical Steffen-coached 
team which, out-smarted their oppo­
nents that saved the day on several 
occasions. Pitt could never have 
gained through the line like they 
did had- cur center ibeen playing in 
the line all the time; but on the 
other hand, they might have com­
pleted forward passes with great reg­
ularity, and possibly would have de­
feated Carnegie. Waily used good 
judgment in his plan of defense. It 
was the old story of brains and 
courage against brawn, with the for­
mer coming out o'n top.
While several men stood but head 
and shoulders on the Plaid team 
above their mates, especially from a 
jspectator’3 standpoint, such as Beede 
who made the great run which 
spelled defeat for Pitt and played a 
bang-up all-around game, both on of­
fensive and defensive; Captain New­
man, whose punting saved the day 
on several occasions, and who made 
the winning touchdown; Manby, who 
played an excellent defensive game 
and intercepted a forward pass at a 
critical moment; though the men 
stand out it must be remembered 
that there were others stars who, 
while not so noticeable, played just 
as well as the others on the Tartan 
team. Etch had his particular duty 
to perform; each waa an Important 
cog in a wonderful, wellKdled ma­
chine. Reede’s run was possible be­
cause Goodwin faked perfectly around 
the ocher end, and the Pitt defense 
was drawn over there. On tho of­
fensive Wertenberger and Bastlan 
had their particular duties, and they 
performed them to perfection. Both 
played a great defensive game, Bas- 
tian making most of tin- tackle*, 
after going up under punts. The fact 
that tlie Panther could not rnln con­
sistently around our er??1 speaks 
volumes for Hablo and G<" 'v.-in, for
as our athlotic relations continuo.
wore startod, with tho resuit that 
Pltt was stopped. Harmon pliayod a 
great dofensivo game whon he wont 
in. Our forwards, ICrlstof, Andorson, 
Cass and Yoder necessarily Iboro tho 
brunt of Pitt's punishment, but gavo 
back Just as much as thoy goL 
Whon the cruolal moment arrived, 
they refused to budge an inch; in 
the supreme test they were not 
found wanting. Wo venture to say 
that no line in the country could 
have stopped the ferocious Panther 
backs more effectively when tho goal 
was threatened.
It was a great battle, a fitting one 
for the biggest football event in Pitts­
burgh this season. It was rought in 
a fair, cleanly manner, and neither 
team need to regret anything that 
was done; neither has anything of 
which lo be ashamed. Both have 
much to look forward to next year.
Thes lineup:
Pitt- 0. Carnegie—6.
Sauer ...................L.E............... Goodwin
Wissinger
(Continued From Pago One.)
Next Sunday, November 2, In the 
Union, there will be lieUl tho annual 
stunt try-out. This means that overy- 
ouo who has given his name to tho 
manager as a tentative stuntor, will 
have to como through with the noiso. 
Tho occasion is expected to be a treat j 
ono, for Bome of tho Campus Notablos j 
are lined up .to perform. Tho Clubs 
are sorry they cannot ask the'student 
body to attend, but It wUl bo noces- 
sary to keep “closed shop."
The big announcement for this 
issue and the next is tho Dance. 
November 10, In the Union, thoro will 
be tho first Gleo Club and Mandolin 
Club Dance. This affair will bo the 
only dance from tho tlmo of tho West­
ern Maryland Game until Armistice 
Day. That moans that thoro will be 
a novelty at the expense of tlmo In 
tho occasion. Here Is tho dope In a 
nut-sholl:
Armistice Day comos on Tuosday, 
and that will be more or less of a 
holiday. Therefore, tho lessons will 
be noglectbd, and tho night bofore will 
bo open to most students. That makes 
a dandy tlmo for a dance. Cnl Lund- 
quist foresaw this, and signed up tho 
Union at the head of a lino of other 
peoplo from other organizations who 
wanted tho samo dato, ami the date 
was given to him. Theroforo, tho 
danco is sot for tho 10th. Tho pro­
gram for tho ovoning has not definite­
ly boon mado up, but as usual, there 
will bo some novelty In the way of a 
stunt. Tho orchostra has been signed 
up, and 1k a secret, as far as tho an­
nouncement of tho namo goes. Next 
week wo may bo able to toll you, but 
the management requests that you 
boar with It, and hold everything, 
knowing that It Is the best available.
As a recapitulation t.o this sym­
phony of words, wo may re state that 
next Sunday will seo tho try-outs in 
tho Union, after tho regular rehearsal, 
and that on November 10, In tho 
Union, tho day beforo Armlstlco Day, 
which Is a holiday, there will bo a 
Danco. This will attract the entire 
studont body, and the tickets will bo 
available at the door, at a nominal 
sum, to bo anounced with the orches­
tra, In tho next Issue.
HEDLUND IS VICE 
PRESIDENT OF CO.
Three Brothers Graduate 
Since 1916; Follow Foun­
dry Lines
CARNEGIE TO STUDY
SMOKE ELIMINATION
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
by householders. The present re­
search will have for its object pri­
marily tho investigation of tho eco­
nomic feasibility of applying low tem­
perature carbonization in the cities 
mentioned.
In attacking the problem, authori­
ties at Carnogie and the Bureau of
L. T................ Kriatof Mines intend to study the yields and
Hangarmer -------L. G............. Anderson ’ qualities of the distillation products
Johnson .................C...................... Manby of a few typical coals in the labora-
We quote from a pre-gnmo writeup 
In the Pittsburgh morning papers:
“Anyone tlguring Carnogie an easy 
victim is crazy. One thing Carnegie 
does against any team is fight—and 
against Pitt they light all the harder. 
Today thoy will be carrying the loau 
which will take from them that care­
free, reckless abandon which paved 
the way for last year’s triumph. And 
the weight of this may take away 
thoir knockout punch, although they 
may liavo plenty of stuff to keep mill­
ing with.
“If thorp is to' he any spectacular 
fight, it will bo from tho coaching 
lines, whore two entirely different 
styles of mentors will bo matching 
wits. Steffen, daring, resourceful, 
spectacular, will wait for ah' opening 
beforo showing his stuff. While he 
lacks a Robortsou or an Anderson to 
carry It out. It is a safo hot that 
Stoffon has not lot tho Pitt game 
como on him like a flash and find him 
unprepared. .Ever since tno opening 
of tho season Carneglo scouts liavo 
followed Pltt. If Pitt has shown any­
thing, Tech knows it and no doubt 
has a defense for It by this time. 
That Is tho way It figures'to hold Pltt. 
Then, who dociB Carnogie have who 
can stop out like Robertson or Audor- 
son to rip off tho distance which will 
stagger tho Panthor as Krlstoff’s 
great run did last year. True, Kris- 
toff is In thero again hut plays like 
ho made last year require a Robert­
son to start.
“And Carnogie will have no Robert­
son. All they will havo in thoro to­
day will ho 11 fighters at every stago 
of the game, novor curljng up or “dog­
ging", but snapping and snarling un­
til tho flnal whistle.
“Pltt shoUld win, hut Carrteglo 
might. That’s a poor way to strad- 
dlo It, but such Is pom'iiblo where any 
other 11 men look just as good an tho 
ones they are facing. It will ho some 
Individual effort on the part of Car­
negie, some yet undiscovered star 
who will have to turn the trick 
against a team almost perfectly weld­
ed, on which each and every man 
stands out with equal, brilliancy,”
Doesn’t It make you proud to have 
that sort of thing said about your 
school and your team'/ Of course, It 
does, and take It from us, there sure 
ly wore ‘—eleven lighters In thoro at 
ovory stago of the game, never curl­
ing or “dogging.” * oh mon, but that 
was a game, laddie!!
We announce tlie following addi­
tional changes in the Chin DIreetoi'y1:
Lob Angeles-Clan—Frederick Kindi, 
Secretary and Treasurer. It. D. 7, 
1007 S. Stanley avenue, eornor Rldge- 
ly and Country Club Drive, Los An­
gelos, pal.
Harrisburq Clan—Ritchie Lawrio, 
Treasurer, 110 Locust street, Harris­
burg, Pa.
.R. G....................... Cass
..R.T.................... Yodei
..RE.................... Hable
. .Q-B.............. Bastian
..L. H... Newman (c.)
Frank (c.)
Chass ...
Kifer ____
A8hbaugh 
Harding .
Joe Schmitt -------R.H.. Wertenberger
Harri3 ..................F. B..................... Beede
Score by quarters:
Carnegie ................................6 0 0 0—6
Carnegie scoring—1Touchdown, New­
man.
Missed point aifter touchdown by 
placement—Bastian.
Pitt substitutions—Gustafson for 
Harris, McMillen for Sauer, Amann 
for Ashbaugh, Evans for Harding, 
Steele for Frank, Ashbaugh for 
Amann; Gwosden for Kifer, Irwin 
for Ashbaugh, Brown for Schmitt, 
Snyder fo? Irwin.
Carnegie substitutions—Harman for 
Newman, Newman for Harmon, Har­
man for Wertenberger.
Referee—Ed Thorpe, De &mE Salle. 
Umpire—G. N. Banlihart, Dartmouth. 
HeadUneamxm—J. C. Molderness, Le­
high.
ALL MEN LIE ABOUT—
The time .they had been waiting 
for a telephone number.
Miles on a gallon.
Sp*iod of their car.
Value of property when insured 
and when taxed.
How hard they work.—Judy's Mag­
azine, Chicago.
tories of the Bureau of Mines at Pitts­
burgh, and to investigate tho cost of 
plant, fabrication and revenue to be 
derived by sale of products in the 
vicinity of Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City 
and Ogden. The distillation method 
to be used has already been worked 
out on a laboratory scale and for the 
present investigation will he applied 
on a scale large enough to yield the 
data required.
Oue of Brio’s annual quota to Car­
negie, since graduation has been mov­
ing up in tho world of industry. In 
1913, Edwin pJ. Hedlund registered in 
Carnegie on the Machinery Produc­
tion Course, specializing In. foundry 
work. As this was then a three-year 
course, ho graduated in 10J.6. While 
in school Mr. Hedlund) hotter known 
on the campus as Eddie, made a 
good record. Not only was ho elect­
ed to the Alpha Tau Honorary but he 
was awarded a scholarship. This 
would no doubt be doubly appreciated 
as Eddie tells us ho worked his way 
through and earned his shekels as ho 
wont.
Since leaving school, Hedlund has 
been located in Erio. He started ,on 
tho Open Hearth but later went with 
Erie Malleable Iron Company. Now 
ho is vice president of tho Urick 
Foundry Company which is a branch 
of the Erie Malleable. Their work 
consists chiefly of making a special 
alloy by using chrome.
The Ilodlunds know no other school 
than Carnogie. All Ilodlunds head 
this way. Slnco graduation two ot 
Eddie’s brothers hav« .received di­
plomas hero. One in, Metallurgy and 
tho othor In /Machinery Production.
WILL HOLD EXHIBIT OF
HEAT AND VENTILATING
(Continued From Page Ono) 
Loighow and Lang will give a sorlos 
of talks on plumbing fixtures and 
tra<\o, hot water hoators and water 
supply.
Promlnont among tho exhibitors are 
tho National Tubo Standard Sunltary 
Company and the Armstrong Cork 
and Insulation Company.
Profossor Dibble said ho has re­
ceived assurances from engineers and 
contractors In Philadelphia, Wilkes- 
Barre and othor cities in tho state 
that thoy will attend tl>o display. lie 
Intimated thoro will be at least 1B0 in­
dustrial mon In attendance. “Domes- 
tic ICnglntiorlng”, olliclal publication 
of the Industry, will havo a represon- 
lat.Ivo on hand to “cover” tho exhibi­
tion. Professor Dibble said ho has 
asked tho students to attend and they 
are expected to toll local englneors 
and contractors of tho exhibition.
"Hero! Havo you forgotten that 
you owe me ton quid?”
“No! Didn't you seo mo trying to 
hide an you on mo along?*' Tho Bul­
letin, Sidney.
“I can’t use your play, sir. It’a too 
long for the stage.”
Amateur Playwright—“But, I say 
—aw—look here—aw! Can't you 
lengthen the stage, you know?”— 
White Mule.
RECIPIENTS OF SCHOLAR­
SHIPS ARE ANNOUNCED
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The placo whore ail good fol­
lows moot and enjoy u good 
meal.
Spoetai 35c plate dinner, in­
cluding dessort.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
IPTE,,Y .PV,,;,,,,OPG M
Fifth Avenue Booî Shop
near 40th Street, New Voi k
Permanent Exhibit Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
they were responsible in rearing “May I kiss your hand?” ho whis- 
the end runs. Hable’s V- insight 1 pered.
and diagnolsis of tho p’ was a j And she answered soft and low:
world of help to the • -u He i “It’a easier to lift my veil than to re­
called moat of the plays be.o. e they , move my glovea, you know.”—Ex.
(Continued Frpm Pago One.) 
Anna Louise Kinzer 
Mary Dorothy Stuempflo 
Nora Ingold Willetts 
These FcholarshipB which were es­
tablished by the Trustees of the 
Carneglo Institute in 1920, carry a 
remission of tho general yearly tui­
tion foo of $180.
They are awarded to students In 
the three upper classes primarily on 
the basis of high scholarship for tho 
proved I ng year. Tho committee on 
scholarships and prizes makes its 
final choice from the lists of recom­
mendations drawn up by a subsidiary 
committee In each college of the 
Institute. By this system, ovory stu­
dent of high standing Is assured of 
a fair opportunity to receive full 
credit for his work as an under­
graduate and a goal Is presented 
which is Huro to raise the standard 
of work throughout the school.
We know one Freshman who wrote 
home that he had three cuts and re­
ceived a first aid kit by return mall. 
—"Ye Sterlir-g Stir.”
WRIGLEYS
After Every Meal
It's the longest-lasting confection yon can buy —and It’s a help to di­gestion and a cleanser 
tor the mouth and teeth.
Wrljfley*» mcang 
benefit a» well ma 
pleoNure.
TheSACK SUIT
(Tttxt and three button)
lev •with that conncrv-
ntiMm carefully <lr<;/jfl<:d men 
demand, and tailored in ap­
propriate, rich pattern« 
thnt stump them aa dis­
tinctive.
i«3250 to M250
u0ashcnl6nF' DN imos. 
841 6C­0gv0i. l_v T­Ck
1
Our style memo, book pent free on request
