
HHen must be at liberty to  gay in pTint whatever tbey bave in mind to say, provided it wrongs no one.
.CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 29, NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JAN. 2?, 1935
Metallurgical
Board Hears 
Steel-Making 
Study Report
Dr. Charles Herty Jr. 
Will Present Papers 
At Open Meeting
BESULTS OF 8 YEAR 
STUDY TO BE TOLD
Silico-Manganese Compound 
Found to Be' Effective 
Deoxidizing Agent
Dr. Charles H. Herty, Jr.. physical cbemist formerly with the Metallurgical Advisory Board to Carnegie, will give th concluding re- 'port on the physical chemistry of ' steel-making, at the eighth annual l meeting of the board on Feb- y 8. Pupors on investigations being carried on In the Metals Research Laboratory will also bo .t the meeting, which 'will lie held in the Carnegie Union.Dr. Herty will present fo pers reviewing research concluded
his direction. The subject of these
da t i oof Dr M> Herty Steel,'' and The Control of Iron ! Oxide He the Basic OpenJJearth j Process.
I These reports mark the end of & jsludy that was begun In 1926 byI
I (he Advisory Board, the Pittsburgh Slutton of the U. S. Bureau of Mines, and Carnegie. At that time ihe board, which Is composed of representatives of the steel industry, roted to undertake a five-year research program on the physical
metallic fnclualorii . Dr. Herty wai engaged by the Bureau of Mines; and a staff of assistants,.jvas appointed.
The starting-point of t'.hls work was a study of the solubility of FeO in molten steels at different lem- peraiured. Equilibrium conditions between the constituents in the moltenmetal and in various kinds rf slags were then determined, in in attempt lo find an effective deoxidizing. agent. Numerous technical papers were published reporting Mils work. The most Important result of this study was the finding of n slllco-manganese alloy that is highly effective deoxidizer.
The original program was competed-In 1931, and the. Board decided to continue the work tor an- other three-yesr period. The new proRram Included a study of the eflning of steel in open-hearth fur(Contlnued on Page Two.)
Delinquent Thistle 
Bills Due Feb. 15
Council Looks Into Financial 
Status of Unpaid Groups
There is stormy weather ahead for those organizations which are delinquent In-paying....their .Thistle ' ill. Student Council has passed ruling setting February 15 as the lime limit for the payment of billswed to the' ptfblication;...............
Tor negligence after this date the organization involved will be sub- investigation of financial stability and liablS to be discontin- recognized organization on Ihe Carnegie caitapus.
The ^assnge of this bill was a protective measure for the salaried members of the yearbook staff. Members of the staff are not paid until all due bills of the Thistle are Paid in full.'35, editor of the 1534 Thistle and publications chairman of Student Council drew up Hie ruling and presented it to Council. He stated that there was' 'Pliroximately $360 still due the ThistleJn unpaid,bills.''Ugh delinquent brganiza-: Hods Hods been billed again and again they have made no attempt aka any settlements, juncii acting under its powers over all campus organizations' has >akon a hand to settle the question.the same tima-the .bill affords. *he Council opportunity to Investigate the rather weak financial Mains of some of the ejttra-curricuorganizations, .. .person to person .drive ior Thistle subscriptions . Is now In progress. This is :beihg  made In order to increase - the sales. As ine bids for printing have not yet [>een made, the approximate
week:
Tlie number of volumes vieces- iry must be determined so-that [e pvinters may estimate the cost  Production and sena In their revive bids to the staff. In this H>e every senior will be inter- separately, consequently v n,,tTlber of subscriptions . willtQre accurately; determlni$d ;thah -----years, ......
Sailor Sinbad Lures Throng 
To Jeweled Dancing Cavern
Admission Price Is Cut; 
. Half of Tickets Must 
Be Sold by Feb. 1
ARTS BALL WILL 
BE HELD FEB. 15
Awning Covered Cab are 
Will Feature Arabian..
Burlesque Show
d the Sailor has etepp ie pages of Arabian I s halls of the College or Fin Arts. The "Voyage of Sinbad?" which is the name of the 1935 Arts Ball, will be held on February 15, from 9:00 to 3:09. Arabia, the land of legend and mystery, provides the decorative theme for tho
i necessitated by the reteed by ticket sales before Feb
prlze-winnlDg designs hare .been
! among the plans'
masks, ' and rock formations wilt be suspended. 
The foyer will be converted Into a walled Arabian gardn. The garden opens into the exhibition room which will be transformed into an awning-covered cabaret.in th cabaret, tho entertainment committee, headed by Janet
Ballet, featuring "8BeautifulDancing Girls8.Music for the entertainment fls being written by Earl Wild of the- Department. of=MiisiC; .Ge.^rge - :McCalmojj, T . Carnegie
of Sinbad the Sailor.. There will be table-service in the cabaret.Arts school has stolen the show om the other schools in the mat- of pairing girls and fellows for
portunity. All dates are made i
tickets to the Ball.Ticket prizes are still being awarded for acceptable ideas on, o make the Arts Ball a sue- There will he two prizes
best dressed couple.
contains all the latest___s and details of* the Arts
Students in the Departments o
Dance Chairman
Marie A. Motter has be committee chairman for the Inter- sororlty formal.
Intersorority 
Formal to Be 
February 22
Maiie Motter Named 
Chairman; Selects 
Committees
- Intersovority Council has set 
February .22 as the date for the In
tersorority Formal of the College 
of Fine Arts and Margaret M.otrison- Carnegie College. No definite decision has been reached as to where tho dance will be held, and no-orchestras have been contacted
Marie A. Motter *36, a member of Beta Tau-Lambda, was appointed chairman of the-committee for the XP^aK'.^e^CQminltt^es-ABstgnedReba A. Waggoner 36, Beta Tau
l. Hoburg *37, Alpha Kappa PsI
flowers; and F. Virginia Matthei 36. Kappa Pill Delta, and Elizabeth L. Lowrey *35, Kappa Pili DelFRESHMAN REGISTRATION 
Dean Roscoe M. Ihrig has .
be convenient for him The schedule cards are made out, and this reduces th time of registering to about two minutes. The student then goes to the gym to
People You Ought to Know...
By:CHFtOR P^Boutelle .
Coachl Alien Risedorph. Swimming Mentor
This week lets talk about Allen E. Risedorph. Coach is 
what nearly everyone calls him, but Ins hygiene students addreS'S liilvi as  And these saviie liygicne students will tell
that hesatough ' instructor but a great fello^y-.
Seven years ago he left his position as director of the phys
ical and recreational program in the schools of Oneonta, N. Y.,to become an instructor In th<+ - - -----------:-----------------------physical department at Carnegie.
Risedorph, for the details of pre - Carnegie
moved to 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. After graduation . from .high school lie joined the'Navy. But'oiie f&itf-was- long-enough for him to "see the world through a porthole. So oji the recommendation of his Hi-Y club leader' he entered Springfield College at Springfield. Mass.
' At Springfield- Ills 200. pounds-----. "
the football berth on the i. but a broken arm his athletic career. 
As a junior he managed >-*e ball team  and the ne*t ^ea. he managed the cross-country squad. In his spare moments he earned --ney doing odd : lobs around te.-igraduated  :Jtt\19.23.
swimming t
with a degree of Bachelor of Physical Education.
Back in Michigan again after graduation he was made director of public swimming pools in the city of Grand Rapids.
For several years he has been treasurer of the Carnegie Y. M. C. A. Coach" is the faculty adviser of the Interfraternity Council. He is not a fraternity man himself, but lie is adviser of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity. '
. Each year the arrangements for tVe' TresHmali piayiiay-Tirol-coru- roast are turned over to "Coach," and every one has been a success.' He is a yearly 'fixture, and a worth while one, too, at the Cooks Forest Outing of the Y."
In 1929 Pitt awarded him the degree of. Bachelor of Science Now hes after his Masters degree.'On the death of Dr. Edmond Es- querre in 1933, Mr. Risedorph took over -the. instruction of hygiene in adrtiti6h'td"his duties in the sfeys* leal department.' He Is now the vice president1 of the Western Pennsylvania Health and Physical Education Association. He is a member of the Cltmas Club of Carnegie, an organization of MasterJia-GORS. -............................ .... .., In 1931, while wording in a camp at Fryeburg, Maine, as director of swimming, Coach was Injured In automobile accident. He ^uifered is of 11His liobbieright a
fling- and' reading. He nas visited e^ew sectior. of the United states wth the  exception of the southeast 1
269 Students 
Have Obtained 
Federal Aid
$11,555.40 Was Received 
For Tbree Months 
FEKA Work
During the first three hiontbs of the school year the Federal Eruer gency 'Relief Administration hat) provided employment for 269 Carnegie students, and has paid a tal of $11,556.40 to student workers. Of thle amount, $3,653.06 paid out In October, $3,S67.60. in' November, and $4,034.85 In cember.
The monthly allotment is $4,036; and is based on the number of students enrolled in January, 1933. 1L has been impossible to so regulate the number of hours allowed-for each student that thfi exactamouot could be readied, because the workers. neglected to.report their progress before the end of each montft. The average amount obta!
i thau
R, O. T. C. Drill Committee 
.Schedules haB. announced two 
'l>ortant changes for the sec 
semester. It O. T. C. drill lias been 
lengthened and will be held on 
/Thursday from 11:30 to 
stead of 11:30 to 12:20. The other 
change is the shifting of Chapel 
from 12:30 to 11:30 on Tuesday.
The additional hour of drill for 
R. O. T. C. will replace one of the 
classes formerly scheduled fc 
dividual groups. Oh this basis tho 
freshmen and sophomores in R. O. 
T. c. will have-one other attendonce hour, in addillou to ilrt]! in
stead of two; while the junior and seniors will have three other tendance hours a week In Addition to the lengthened- drill.  Also tho classes that are now scheduled begin at 1:30 on Thursday for the freshmen and sophomorce taking five-year... Mathematics will be scheduled to begin and end one hour later than at present. So far changes have been announced the  afternoon schedules either tho juniors or seniors.
. *, ___rt^,.____________.Chapel hour has been mts^dntVhaVe>glven up th'eiriiTimif H*ik'  to-.ilviw.-on^iTuead^yi^Tiilo
for each worker, and dent is allbwed to earn mt a month.
Since the main purpose of. using relief funds for student aid Is Increase the - number of .students going to college, approximately half of the jobs were given to students who were not regularly enrolled In any colloge  or university last mester, and who could not have
answer a questionnaire nnd. show that he nmu in need of help. Of th<i total number of Jobs, 65 per cent ure belog hold by sophomores and freshmen.'
The work done by these students' is socially desirable work such clerical, library, and research work, nnd Includes local goVernmt work. There has been no trouble experienced In finding to keep the 269 students busy, but c-nly about one-fifth of the applU cants can be given jobs.
OiJyvft vOT>vsmali;$.er^5Kft^
The Jobs left vacant have been taken by replacement workei There is a possibility that there
Technical Colleges 
Offer Fellowships
Seniors of High Scholastic 
Standing Are Eligible
Seniors of good scholastic standg are Invited lo look into the pos
sibilities of graduate woik. for next 
ear. Most of tlfe technical schools 
> the country offer work leading to 
he masters degree, and many offer inducements in the form of scholar
ships and fellowships.,
Those in the upper third of the 
class are especially urged to inves
tigate these opportunities for post
graduate work.' The stipends offer;d vary from the remission of tuiieh-fivis. fO:Suros..of money as high 
is ohe thousand dollars. Other 
schools offer teaching fellowships, 
ivlth partj.i>n.e teaching and the remainder of the time spent in graduate work. i
 -The Bureau .0f.jtec0n1m.ejlCations 
has on file notices of graduate work and graduate school catalogues of all the major technical Institutions
limit set by many ot the schools expires on March first Past experience has shown that of' the seniors.neglect to consider the possibilities of graduate ork until it is too late. The Bu* ofore Invites those seniors
Coming Events
3:30Studio Matinee  TlirOne Act PlaysNo tickets i
-7V1S -Tavtau- Hour sttswwsw,
Thursday12:30Earl Wild, piano recttal-r Exhibitlon ' Room,' Fine' Arts Building. 
FridayFebruary 1Final Examinations for First Semester Begin: 
FridayFebruary 8End of Final Examinations.;i0 to 'S^Jxmtai- -prom 'Teddy Blacks -Orchestra  -Urban Room, Hotel .William Pehn. February 9First Semester Ends. February- .11  Registration for Second Semester Begins. February 12Registration. ehrjwry.13......J: 30-Classes Begfn.4:30Freshman "Y. DinnerMeetingRecreation Hall. . February 1530w. A. Ai Noon Meecmg. to 3Arts Bai
February 16-
Arts
Next Tartan Issue 
To Appear Feb. 19
The next Issue of Tho 
. Carnegie Tartan will appear 
' on February 39.
This two-week interlude Is 
caused by. the period of final 
examinations and the Inter. vening second Bemester pe
riod for registration.
Assignments for the Issue 
of- February .19 may be ob
tained on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 13. Makeup will be
held as usual on Friday of 
that woek.
R.O.T.C. Drill 
To Be Doubled
Next Semester
Schedules Committee 
Announces Changes; 
Chapel Shifted
away with much, confusion
, as well as Assemblies.
Senior Engineers 
Make Lathe Tool
Lathe Dynamometer Allows 
Maximum Efficiency
'William J. Brown and Cliarlej 
E, Crede, seniors In the Departof Mechanical Engineering, 
have invented a new lathe dyna
mometer. This tool is designed for the maximum efficiency In the op ratio)....................................
Mr. Credo In perfecting thci dynamometer be successful, tho ton! will probably be used next in' the Mechanical Engineering Laboratory.
Mr. BfSwn is a member ot Thela' Tau, PI Tau Sigma, and C._M. E.
ith -Tau Beta Phi, Phi Kappa Phi, "afid
Epsilon Pi Tau 
Is Recognized 
By Council
National' Industrial Ed. 
Honorary Affiliates 
Local Chapter
AIMS TO PROMOTE 
HIGH SCHOLARSHIP
Carnegie Group Will Pick 
Members from Upper 
One-fourtli of Class
A petition seeking tho establish
ment of n local clmpter of Epsilon 
Pi Tau, national professional fra
ternity in Industrial Arts nod Vbcatioiml Industrial Education, was 
pnsBed by Student Council at Us 
last meeting January 22.
Agitation for the establishment 
of a local chapter of the honorary 
arose from among the students en
rolled In the Depurtmout of Inhas already recognized the local group.
chapters nnd 534 )d In the. roster of The purpose ot the fraternity is lo promote a higher standard of scholarship among students preparing to- enter the field of Industrial education, and to encourage moro widespread interest in teaching.as a profession.The national fraternity attempts lo promote educational research work and publishes anntiol reports on its findings, m 1933 the fraternity published a report on standustry.
Headmiarters of EpBllon PI Tau are at Ohio St&to University.
The,local chapter will select Its membership by invitation from one-fourtl hip, clmra . . the principals on which membership 1b based. 
Joseph H. Brewer 35 is the president of Ihe Carnegie Chapter of Epsilon PI Tau. Donald E. Grove 35 Is temporary secretary.
The .petition..to Student Council was signed by: Joseph H..Brewer, Ffeler.-K.. AUa&iaQp^'3&; ;T Ramaey; Frank Sanford 36, Davj Boyer 35, Donald E. Orov Thomas E. Hoskins '35, Walter 1 Deles and E. H. Smith of the Department of Industrial Education, 
Prof. Glen U. Cleeton, head of the Department of Industrial Education, is the sponsor of the organfEarl Wild Presents 
Second Recital Thurs.
On Thursday, January 31. at 
12:30, Earl Wild will present the 
second of his series of half-hour 
piano recitals In Exhibition Hall. 
Tho program will include three 
works of Liszt, Ballade ln B Min
or. "Gnomenreigen, . and Les 
Funerallles. The entire program 
111 probably be broadcast fifteen 
minutes later. The third recital, 
1 all Bach program, Is scheduled 
r February 7.
Dr. Bldwell. In his regular Saturiy evening organ recitals, will be 
assisted again this semest&r by atu- 'ets ' iti''the "Department' of Music of the College of Fine Arts, beginning February 9. The soloists, be annomiced later, will play sev- il coucurtas 'wftlr organ" accorri1'
Poll on R. O. T. C. Proves 
Students Are Peace-Minded
Results Are Tabulated f Questionnaire on Military 
Training and Peace Movements Sent to College 
Presidents and Editors by A.C.P.
active In peace movements was gained here today when results of questionnaire sent to college iwapaper editors and presidents throughout the country by Collegiate Digest and Associated -Collegiate Press were tabulated. 
Approxima.teiy 400 college edi- rs o'd- 'priima answered^' ser- s of questions on military training and peace movemeuts, and Irom heir answers it was. dlscovdefinlte inci in favor of peace movments. Fifty presidents and 7>6' editors did not feel there was any noticeable increase 1b this respect Conversely, only 15 presidents j.d"13 editors -tiecleFed they- s-c- ticed an> increase In sentiment for either compulsory or optional
More closely divided we; the editors and presidents ideation: - Do - you personally.. fa^ for the entire abandonment f military training on your campua? Answerpersonally in the affirma150, according to the editors, while gymnasium work is required at 147 institutions, optional in 28, and nor required in 15.
Exactly 152 of the colleges rep
resented hy their editors are not obligated to the federal government to maintain a military course, while the answers given by the presidents bring the( total to 108.
Most prominent a!mongfhe' slu- '-int c.....................................ivelo meats
the -Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and others purely local. Fifty , groups having this name were mentioned.
The military training question should be settled by a conference and_ a vote of student governors and faculty, "ic 'majority V oiTffie presidents feet. The editors are overwhelmingly in favor of submitting It'to the entire student
Peace Dlescussed Widely
... From..the comments giveboth the editors and the presidents^ It- Is apparent that there In a general wide-spread -awakening of interest on the part of college students towards discussions of the peace question. Peace speakers are well received, and' according, to sev- eral nf the answers-received, stu- v-f(ConUnuedohPaKe.Three.)v: 
 5, ^ V
Mens Junior Prom 
Will Be Held Feb. 8; 
Orchestras Contacted
President Thomas 6. Baker, wh< will return to . Carneqle next month following- a prolonged rost in the south.
Pres. Baker 
Returns After 
Severe Illness
Long Best in Georgia 
Speeds Recovery 
Of C.I.T. Head
Dr. Baker Hb expected to r< 
to the campus and to resume his 
duties as the President of Carnegie some, tlme'-ditrlng the first .days of the second semester, unless the condition of, the. weather bocomi
aq sy;sre.a..9;:to:-e^Dr. her .has recently returned
the home of nature ftiid the seriousness of Ills long illness, which began during the early part of last summer has necessitated his being absent frum the campus, and from his work here
ever. Indicate that his health is de- Idedly improved, and that with proper care and attention, he will, be able to return to his offices and esume his activities.
Alpha Chi Alpha 
Plans Tea Dance
Alpha Chi Alpha, womens natlonal Journalistic honorary, will 
sponsor the first social affair of 
the second semester' Jn the form 
St. valentine's day tea dance. 
In Thistle Hall, Thursday, Februa14, from 4 to 6. Bob Duncan's 
radio broadcasting orchestra will 
iurnlah tho WiTrafcr Bob Duncan's 
orchestra has played frequently at 
Pitt fraternity dances. Admission 
"frill je^tweoty-nvn. c.cnts... .
The committee for the dance 
will atlempt to establish a prece
dent on the campus by serving re
freshments, consisting of punch 
and.cakes, in the downstairs lounge
f Thistle Hali.............
Margaret Barr '35, Is chairman of 
the committee in charge of the 
dance. Madolin Vautrlnot 35, and 
Isabel Shelton '35, will be In charge 
of publicity. Other members of the 
imilttee are Anna Ladd '3Sr 
Gwen Haddock 35, and Ruth Gus
tafson '35.
At the last supper meeting of Alpha Chi Alpha, Mrs. Howard Ifalnea, a former reporter on the staff of the Pittsburgh Press, addressed the group informally on her actual experiences in newepa- ner work. Grace Borgerding, national vice president ot Alpha Chi &1alHimr w.iw a.su?i at; the meeUng,
New Volumes Added ' 
To Collection in Hut
New books which have heen.add- .1 to U.e collection1 in the Hut recently re: ~ .........
spension Bride .of Shot-t Sput,"____land; S.ceri* for Student Acton,Coaerovo; A Plwyer'e ' Handbook, Sal*
__Atten Trachften, Doy; "TheorBcaiPhysics.* Joes ; ''Dictionary of . Organic Compcnind/^Hellbron^ Modern House,
Light, 'X-Rays, and Material PaxUcloV* 
om GnlUco lo Coarnt Rays, Lcnipri ;
Annual Dance Will Take 
Place from 10 to 2 
In Urban Room
TICKET PRESALE IS 
$3.50 PER COUPLE
Admission Price Is Lowest 
In Five Years; Door 
Assessment $4.00
With the exception of orchestra arrangements, plans for the Men's Junior Prom have been completed.
Friday evening, February.8, from.. 10 to 2. t.
Orchestra negotiations are under wuy with Ted Black.and bis, Cufo Loyule New York baud,. Todd Rollins BninswloU Recording orchestra, and the Hotel Clinton band
the history of Junior'
ngo the prlco year $4.00. Tli that the reduction of price and the
turnout, for tho first school forni,
"Y office <Delta Skull, junior honorary,-In keeping with Junior Prni trad*.
ironeBBesl as fallows: r.Thotnai ; S. Baker, Mr. and Mrs, John; Importer, Dr. and Mrs, Churles Wat?"- kins, Miss Mary WnUon Green, Mr. mid Mrs. Arthur IV. TnrbJI/  Dr. and Mrs: Webster N, Jones, Prof. Glendlnnlng' Keeble, Dr. and
Mrs. Alan Bright, and Mr. FranJC'"
flmVJyii-R.-.Harry ^Hol.idayj Prof. and - 3VirB. Hnrolcl :L,'I^nff,r'Mr; an9vMTsr''': Charles W, Larlcin. -Prof. and .Mrs.- -i J. H. Neeley, Mr. and Mrs. Allea Risedorph, Prof. nud Mrs. Lawrence H. Schultz, Prof. Frederick.5 C- Swanson, Prof. and Mrs. Beryl :- E. Warden, Prof. and-Mrs. J. 0. Warner, and Captain -and Mrflv'" Reginald Whitaker.
Dept, of Drama
Presents Matinee'
Three One-Act Plays Given, 
lu Studio Theater Wed
Three one-ac sented by t Drama tomorr Studio Theater ot Administration
3 Faith and Works;
plays will be pre-- i Department >  80 In
ight who has ' contents with somo of her played;-' Marcia Leetv will direct Faith and- Worts,...... The.Cfl^t includes K&h-j:. yn Bauer,, Ralph Nason, Malcoin; Milligan, and William Ilerz.
Brother Donald will be direct* : id l;;,*WalterDordeyc, -an.d^-thfa.-,-;
last -of- the plays, to. be preseni^d-;.^! will be Weakness for Nurses^V'N-.ffi directed by Margaret Goldbergi .- 'iii The cast includes Thelma New-1- i'-Si Iioase, Tod, Egll, Bariy- ^ulltgany-'-ii-Jj and Elizabeth Moore. No tlck'^u' are required for melinee perform- -, ill ances; and all are invited. 
Teknon Club Votes ] 
In New Members ;-
Teknon, a religious organization. consisting' of Caruegle students: ..?;;; which meets on Thursday at^tho;:,:.'V:: Shadyside Presbyterian church^: elected 21 new members Into the- club last Thursday evening. ^ ' '1!.- 
Prospective members must bo In-:.;-'-'!? lted by Teknon members; aft^r attending three meetings, these; v.Uit new members are voted into 'the^';^61Ub.---------------iff-*-i
Those who were elected into thejV' w club are: Margaret Alcorn.. .Bartels, Maud Bowers.:Conti, Claire Fi-ederlck, FlorenCSTT 'TiflMP rim-n Woll T . - ,;S
Louise -Wunderlich.
Two Printers Pledged 
By Pi Alpha Delta ;
PI Alpha Delta,- local scholastic^* onorary in the Departmerit foti? 'rl&Wagj has- extended -bids-to -Har^r old H. Jacques 36 and .Edga'r>S.^ Reed 37.Before receiving Deita'. candidates <
actlyitie9iand>1

---------------------------------------------------

TRE CARNEGIE TARTAN,: TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1935
First Returns of College 
, Peace Poll Are Published
30,00U Ballots 
At^Recprded
?*.' rity Would Fight 
If U. S. Invaded
POLL STIRS INTEREST
Mass Meetings, Interviews 
Stimulate Discussion
Scripps -Howard Science
Mr. Dietz Says That Coal, Metals Rsearch Depts. 
Do Most Thorough Job in Country; Writes 
Scientific News Exclusively for Papers
Early returns of the Peace Poll being conducted by the Literary Digest and the Assocation of College Editors, }n which Carnegie students were asked to vole, have recently been announced. About 30,000 ballots from 30 colleges in all sections of the country are included in this first reporl. Those from Carnegie have not yet been counted. ,According to this report masorl- ties on all 30 coltes voted that the United States could stay out of another great war; that they would fight if this country were invaded; that they would not fight in the invasion of the borders or another country; and all except ; three that a navy and air force second to none Is not a sound method of keeping us out of a war.
All Want Armament ControlA majority in all thirty voted for government control of armament and munitions industries and for universal conscription of capital and labor in time of war, and sixteen reported favorably on entry into the League of Nations.; > Following is a reprint of the llctt of questions with the returns given approximately In round hers: L .Do you believe. that.thQ Unit- ' ed States coold stay out of anothergreat war? Yes20,000. No--,10.000.(a) If the borders of the United -States were invaded, would you bear arms In defense ot your < try? Yes24,000. No6,000... - (b) Would yon bear arms for ihe United States In' the Invasion of the borders of another country' Yes5,000. No25,000.Do you believe that a na _tlonal policy of an Arnerclan Navy and air-force second to none Is : sound method of Insuring .against being drawn Into anotb great war? Yes10,000. No2
industries? Yes27,000.000. 4. In alignment with our historic procedure in drafting man-power li time of war, would you advocat the principle of universal conscrip- / lion of all resources of capital and) control all profita
.. Yes- 16.000. No14,000.
' 325,COO Receive Ballots 
/ Ballots .were mailed to over 325 000 students in more, than 100 lead-American colleges and univei ; pities throughout ihe country and rih Qneens University 'In Canadn -during the early part of this ..month, Ballots will he counted If *S3t-. mailed later .than January 31.; & In. Its press release, the editors ;';;bfihe" Literary Digest make the -toUowins statement: The vast Majority of students, college au- nborities, undergraduate organizations,' and, Darticularly, the college press  all these forces iu . - American colleges are combining, 'enthusiastically, sincerely, in a concerted effort to make young Amerl-thlnk, form about the factoi r.vTolyed in wiping out war, and hav-oplnioiin opinion, express it in the'j peace ballot."
Poll Arouses Interest ijifl/'V-i-The Digest reports that consid- ^c-. erable Interest has been aroused by
. organizations in order discussion of the poll (
.-Biftwn.Cniv'j?T9ity,.tho..____ _____Daily Herald had the president and other officials and faculty members ot.the university answer and rdent on the questions.' The publication of the University of Alabama opened its columns to student to-debate the conflicting opinions, 
v... . Called Slacker Poll'Both favorable and unfavorable etitclsms have been made of the i-poll. A graduate of the Naval Academy  studying at Harvard Statistically, I think the poll is Bfib'Ject to bias and closes by im- plying that the Digest is being un- -patriotic and indiscreet in present- -Ing. the results of its 'slacker poll.M ,v: At Princeton, Dean Gauss said in ihe.. columns of the Prlncetonian:_ plan- oS-tha - AsseclaUon - - of^College Editors to take a poll ot_____undergraduates on certain' funda- i-'rinental problems of American pol- further- indication of the intelligent interests which our cam- re taking^ In political quesary Academy Comments
r'-An editor's note in the Pointer at te '"United States Military Acade- iy.'vtnade the following comment:J
ieiiotidest expreselpns -ai 'peas* all costs emanate from the cot- ' legiate publications . . . We take '^notice of the fantastic schemes i',ii!plaD6  proposed, to us. first, the schemes themselves ^ludicrous to anyone with a ful- irIope/i aDd. rai-ionnl mind, and nd .because the schemes eman* lifrom a grout), of young iMi which comes  from  ex- ; .stiU feel a need to make j noise--' ^Harvard Questions ValueCrimson raised fti Har yardconcerning the value of
By Louise MelxnerDavid Dietz, science editor for the Scripps-Howard newspap- Carne^ie Jast Tuesday science laboratories. Mr. Dietz said that he was deeply mpresscd by our laboratories, especially those In the Departments
and that be be
lieves that these are two of the most important in Ihe country. They do, said
National Association ot. Science Writers, which consists ' of outstanding .nev/s. men who yrite scientific news. The world, said Mr. Dietz, is Increasingly becom: ing a world of- science; and the progress of science In the world should be placed before the public. The newspaperman pointed out that many of the social problems of the present day which seem to defy solution will not be solved, for science will sweep them away. The evils which rose during the feudal system were not
The problems of today will i
When asked about the Tuture for engineers, Mr. Dietz Bald, The future for engineers is the brightest of any vocation. Concerning the- training of the engineer, he said that the student of. engineering
fundamentals of all branches of science. Mr. Dietz also emphasized the need for a thorough knowledge of physics. Everyone has realized
rtH beidge of chemistry.
Mr. Dietz placed emphasis or the importance of the engineer'; training. In the future there will be more and more scientific Instru ments and objects with which to work. All recent modern improthe only person who will be able
- Mr. Dietz is a graduate of West- After his graduation
four papers of the Scripps-Howard chain since 1925. The year 1922 was the first year in /whichnewspaper seriously scientific convention.ot the grouperjDletz
who covered the science convention in 1922. Since that time the part of science in news has become more and more important. "Today, the increasing importanceof scientific : the ibe-Been In of space given in thePittsburgh newspapers to the port of the recent science convention in Pittsburgh.
Mr. Dietz is author of Story ot
forty-three colleges in orientation courses for freshmen, and as a eral reference book for the study of general science. Mr. Dietz i science appears daily In
Fraternities 
Enter Bridge 
urnaimefit
Twelve Houses Sign Up 
For Contests Which 
; - Begin Feb.' 16
interfraternity-bridge matches 
will begin this, year -the week of 
February 16. william G. Agnew 35, 
of the Delta Upsilon fraternity is 
chairman of the committee making 
arrangements for the annual tournEach fraternity will play one 
match a week and will meet each 
of the other teams in their league 
nee. A match will consist of ebcTeams will be composed of four -layers, which will be divided into wo groups, each group  playing teight boards and then playing the boards that were played by tho other group.
leagues have been formed. Spartan league including Beta Sigma Rho, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Phi Epsilon.The Athens League including Delta TTpsllon, Beta Thota Pi. The- ta Xi, Delta Tau Delta, Alpha Sis* a Phi, and Kappa Delta Rho.
Eachfour men and each house i 6ent a. list of eligible players to the Bridge Committee not later than the time of the first match. The list of eligible players must
will be formed which will he known as the Athens and Sparta
The matches must be played dur-. Ing the regularly scheduled weefc Results are to be turned In later.than Saturday,noon of that week; at room 204 Gymnasium Building. All matches must star' within 15 minutes of the time mu tually agreed upon by the two houses; or the match will be forfeited to the organization having a full team represented.Regularly enrolled undergraduate full time day students are eligible to play. Official duplicate contract rules of scoring and play ball govern .all-matches. All protests should be presented., at the time of turning In scores. Decisions on the protests will be g!'
Scientific Group 
Holds Luncheon
Dr. C. Carpenter Gives Talk 
On Wood Fibres
The Science Colloquium held its 
first luncheon meeting of the year 
last Thursday at the Carnegie Inn. 
Dr. Charles Carpenter, research as
sistant in the Department of Chem
istry, spoke on the Chemical and 
Physical Structure o Wood Fibers" 
from 11:30 to 12:30, after which 
lunch was served.
Meetings of the Science Colloquium are held once a month. Topics of general interest to the faculty
The colloquium is under the direction of Dr. Thomas R. Alexander, associate professor of
brief summary of man's knowledge />f wood, from a botanist's point of view. iH-e then explained how the arrangement of the materials of,
He also showed the relation of research work and the knowledge- of thesfe- properties. ,to..auch. in-, dustrles as lumbering, paper mak
ing, etc.
Dr. Carpenter Is a graduate of Syracuse University au'd
from opposing the decrees c government when the time of crisis actually arrives.in connection with the poll, the editor of The Dartmouth wrote:' Never before in this nations history have 'college newspapers waged so consistent a campaign against war. Regardless of why they believed wars were fought, or by whni methods ..they ^ coujd_.be avoided, every undergraduate editor seems to agree that the wholesale mass-murder of yo'ungmen It a shocking, indictment .of our .present civilization. Nearly all of
and cooperative effort cf these young people can aid materially the movement to remove the cause ot wars from the earth.
examination he elts back and slyly nervous coed to her noee. Then, he arises,-"bend? an accusslng finger, and drily re* marks: Young woman, this Is not a make-up examination* <
Answers ,to Queries at the University of Minnesota showed that no one student In a class of 160 had any doulits about thq truth of evolur tloni and'.that: only 20 peB. cent. of
Graduate Heads 
Speech Assoc.
Prof. A. "Williamson, N.Y.U., 
Was Former Arts Pres.
Arleigh* B. Williamson, gradu; 
of the College of Fine Arts in 1920, 
and at present professor of speech 
and administrative chairman of the 
department of Public Speaking at 
Washington Square College, New 
York University, was elected pres
ident of the National Association 
of Speech at the associations nine
teenth annual convention.
Prof. Williamson was president 
of the College of Fine Arts for two 
terms and was one of the founders 
of the present Student Council. 
While in school he was prominent 
in the dramatic performances of
During Prof. Williamson devgraduate days he was a member of the faculty-, f.ftsdiinp . EngilsI from 1916 to 1920. He was givei a leave of absence for two year serving overseas with Base Hos pttal 27, which ' '
_ activities....,among. ... a and was in charge official entertainment presentation in honor of Secretary War, Newton- D. Baker and-Gi eral John J. Pershing.
fessorship in English and public speaking at Miami University. He went to New York University in
Chautauqua Summer School. He was president of the Eastern Public Speaking Conference from 1930 lo 1932 and chairman of the speakers Bureau of the City Fusion Party in New York City during the La- Guardia campaign. He is a member of Tau Kappa Alpha, honorary- -debating society--and. ot .Beta Thela- Pi.Prof. Williamson Is a specialist in the theory and practice of i suasion. Author of "Speaking
. variety of subjects..
The funeral service which stands out,strongest in the memory Of certain-class at th-i "University
At. the height of his tory, the-minister said: "The shell has broken and the nut is.gone.",
. . Mysterious. re... Use wsyp o.f;t.he electorate, but not half so mysteil- ous as the ways of .he trustees of the - University of. North . Dakota. They allow student publications j
Quarter Hour Initiates New 
^Broadcasting Equipment
Program Will Oiigiitaie 
In Exhibition Room 
Of Arts School
Carnegie will inaugurate a new 
and vepr promising.--field of acUy.k 
lies tomorrow night, when the pio^ 
gram of the, Tartan -Quarter'-.Hotir'
Luncheon, Skating 
Party Plans Made
The fresliman Y. W. C. A. cabi- et is making arrangements for. skating party to iiies no Gardens 1935. All membei C. A. are Invited to attend. Plans have been made for ail who wish attend the skating party
January 24. Miss Mai tin summarized the article from the Christian Herald, We Dont Want to be Like You Polks. The Y. W. C. A. invites all freshmen girls, both from the College of Fine Arts and Margaret Morrison,
Metallurgical Board' 
Holds Annual Meet
oxidizers, elimination of lie matter, gases in steel, quicker of determining lnclusJou9,
the finished steel.. The -work cf (lie Metals. Research Laboratory, which is concerned
being made in this laboratory divided into- four major problems the olastic dformation of metals,
laboratory, ... , . , final report, on his study of the alloys of iron, manganese and car: in large' quantities n Amcr- ill! be described by Dr. Cyril Welk, also of the Metals Labora- He will also reoort' on the behavior of alloys made with thin iron. B. N. DaniloIT, resear<fellow who worked under the direction of ,Dr. Herty will renort on- another phase oi the work dono the physical chemistry of steel
the Falk Foundation.Research fn the Economic Field." The banquet will be held at the
the . Tartan. Thomas W. Lipperc, who is on the editorial staff of the iron Age. He was editor in 1929- 30, and is a graduate ot tho denartadvertlsements for pipe to- tnd cigars, .but-nary an ad for a cigarette company!
The tatkipg movie. h?B ruined
All speeches delivered by students at the University of the Phil- liplnes must be censored by authorities before they may.be.given.
. The. difference between Rip Van Winkle:and some .students, is .that -Rip; Van.t.winkle .vwoke: up.'
program,.- which begins at
edy skit. Helen Jayae, the soloist on the Tar- ' tan Quarter Hour programs this year, \T" sing Invltati to a Dane and "Once Too Often," assisted at the piano by
In radio work, especially for the members of the College of Fine Arts, has led to the successful pletlon of negotiations for broadcasting studio right on the campus. It has been made possible through the combined efforts and cooperation of the Radio Committee of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Walter Sickles, program director of station WWSW. and Carl M. Dozer, a senior in the Department of Drama.-The development of this project the campus Is
of a strong Tartan Quarter Hou: program, but Will make It posslhle to broadcast many fine programs in cooperation with the Depart* ments of Music and Drama.A program by the Carnegie Stu* dent Symphony Orchestra, undef the direction of Dr. J. Vlck OBrien, will be a monthly feature of the broadcasting schedule, and
_nd the Giee Clubs. .ment of Dramfwlll have a spleudid chance to develop its radio talent, both in actual dramatic presentation and in arranging skits suitable for the medium of radio.The work of the new studio not limited to the College of Fine Arts, however. Members of Mar* garet Morrison Carnegie College .or the College of Engineering whoshow i ..................work of 5 inity
football an<f basketball seasons, Lerviews and talk and reprsentatives of the teams ran be arranged more often and more easily.According to present plans, A VarleLy Musicale_ by the Department of M.uslc will be broadcast everv Tuesday at 1:30 from the .Exhibition Room; and Earl Wild, -pianist and com poser of the music .............Persephone,
of this series of studio recitals las Thursday. Although this program was broadcast direct from the campus, tomorrow night's presentation of the Tartan Quarter Hour will he the first formal broadcast from
50 Water Colors' 
Are on Exhibit
bacchanalians 
Appdiat Head 
Of Committee
Paintings of Isaac Greenwald 
Feture3 at InstrtGer ' 
An -'exhibition orstty water col-s opened eaTly this month at the 
Carnegie Institute galleries. They 
painted by Isaac Griinwald, fa* 
Swedish - artist, on c recent 
tour through Eastern Europe. -All 
ilfty are landscapes, and represent 
the many romantic scenes of his 
journey, in which Mr. -Grunnrald has 
made tlie most of the colorful southern European countrysides. They are pictures . of' beautiful stucco buildings, vigorous but lime not clashing.Isaac Grunwald.was.born in 1339 in Stockholm Swedeen, He attended Katrina College, and the Academy of Belles Leltres in Stockholm. In 1908 he went to Parlt. where he studied under Hletirl -Matisse. ' At the age of 25 he rented a studio in Stockholm, where he became quite popular. Soon after the World War he was recognized as ' tho foremost contributor to Swedish art. He made his'first pearance in the United States in the Carnegie International of 1926. In last years International represented.in the Swedish section with two portraits.The exhibition of Grunwald water colors will remain until February 17.Carnegie Institute has
impressive shows; an exhibition prints by Gerald Brockhurst and one of paintings by Malcolm Par- cell which included the famous painting nnd 1924 popular prize winner, My Mother.Nekt month the Associated 'Art* letB of Pittsburgh tlon will be shown, In which the Carnegie faculty Is well represent* fed. The Pittsburgh Salon of Photographic Art holds Its exhibit!In March, and in April an exhibition of paintings by Randall Davey will be presented. Three members of the Carnegie Faculty will be represented in the exhibition or the Academy ot Fino ri.B in Philadelphia, which opens next week.Mr. R. (Hilton . has. loaned hi painting. "A Work ot Man. and
Carl Dozer Is Executive 
Chairman of Annual 
- . Carnegie PJay:: : - -
.C&rl:M. .Dozer; '35 was named hairraan of the executive. commit- ee for the annual production of the Bacchanalians, at a meeting held laBt Wednesday. Joseph D. Batcbelier '36 will ' be the technical director, and Janet L. Patrick 35 is in charge of the campus show.
Although a play ha6 not yet beeu elected by .the committee,, it hoped that they will he able toanother one by Miss Rosemary Casey, the Pittsburgh playwright, whose Love Is Not Important," had its initial production fast spring during Carnival Week under the direction of the BacchanThis years performance will bi -;iven on May 10 and 11 nt the Nixon Theater, and Student Council has appropriated the funds to 
finance the production.The complttee hopes to have one of these performances sponsored again by the Veterans of Foreign ), who sponsored the fii^st
According to The Holcad, Westday exercises, at which he will be
in
BalletPractice
Scholarship.Orggnizatioa 
 Backs Presentation ...
The second ballet .to be given t the combined * Departments of M,uslc , a.ad....Drama, with tnuslt xomposed by -Earl -Wild, -assisted' by George Youngling, ha recenUr been put into, rehearsal.  CliauncM Kelly has prepared the orcheatfi tlon for the - forthcoming ballot which is under the direction or Miss Cecil Kltcat, J. Vick OBrien, and Miss Mildred E Lawton.
Titles tor the production, which will be staged at an early date to April, ar in process of selection, The program of the ballet is in lwB------- daflcw
tods sug!: the other
the Union. The forty lo forty-five members, orchestra, conducted by j vick OBrien, has sixty-five member and rehearses in ihe ExhibitionRoom.
This year the ballet .. .. ed by the Womens Scholar-being - -bolar- hich has mad ie ballet ' staged in the Little Theater . Irene Kaufmann Settlement.
jrage Randolph * Maeoi,The ____
student during his four yean smokes. 14.400- cigarettes, eats 3S? 000 pounds of candy, shakes hand] 2,300 times, walks 360 miles to U* post office, dances 12,680 miles Richmond 35 times sleen
Department of Architecture Renigs; 
Makes Plebes Design Real Houses
lainted in the vicinity.
Two Lithographs 
Shown by Readio
Two lithographs by W- E. Readio. associate professor'of the Department of Painting and Design,
By John ShearEveryone lives In a house, so why shouldnt a student enrolling in arcbltecutre start out his course at Carnegie by designing "and studying houses? The Department of Architecture nt: Carnegie deeid ed that nothing could be more logical, so this year's freshmen started right out on that kind of work making,small houses.For years the beginner In architecture here, as in most other schools, spent all of his tlme'leam- Ing to render. He took prepared scale drawings of thie Classic or* tiers; ground up ink and mixed it with water; and then worked far Into tho night trying: to run smooth,
Now instead of taking a whole year to learn to render the wall of a house, the freshman learns what Is far more importanthow to build ; lift wall of a house. In order that he might have a conception of a building as an actual thing, he has departed from-the flat, difficult plane of the drawing hoard, and is building cardboard models, and
gets down under the surface of the walls and studies the simple structural forms. He is given real, practical work.- '
Then he takes his other subjects freehand drawing, perspective, graphics, mathematics, and descriptive geometryand puts tlieo all to work'on the hofisa that he I* 'Designing combines ail hla'coums Into one big unitarchitecture.In embarking on this new method of teaching, Carnegie Is pioneering in. the field ot architectural study. They have thrown aside for the time, the well-worn theory that the ability for presentation is all important to the beginner; and instead they are teaching thf, student the fundamental prlclples of design. As yet, It Is still an experi. ment but there seems no reason for Its not succeedingfor no fault can be found with a system ,tbat mataa- the student thinkand teaches blm something definite.
Instructor of Printing 
Is Pres. of Craftsmen
Charles W. Pitkin, instructor in the Department of Printing, has been elected President of the Pittsburgh Club of Printing House Cniftsmen. The club is a branch of th national organization and is-yogpwhvggg oi-in scuti-e positions who are connected with printing establishments in the Pittsburgh district. Previous to his lo.ction as president. 51?. PiLUln served as a member of the educational committee.1Hflr.-BItWn-Jwas -graduated -from. the Department of Printing at Carnegie years nightlowingnight school in the Department
contains the finest jrk in the United de by a committee
The first of the two Ward. wo.9 shown at the Intern tlonal Kxhlhlt ot Prints at the C! cngo Art Institute in connection with the Century of Progres
Colorado gold fields.
Library School Head 
Gives Illustrated Talk
Ralph Munn, d Library and th<School of Pittsburgh will prt freo illustrated le< day evening, Janu 3:15 p. m., at the Carnetrie Lecture Hall. The subject1 of Mr. M' faljf -wi51.be Ten,Thousand Miles in the Antipodes!
nation oi Australia and New "Zealand. He has many interesting things to tell _of_ his_ extensive travels in_tfieae~far~offTands.' ''Tiirs presentation is one of a series of Thursday evening lectures sponsor- ed by-.the Carnegie r~
so much
for so little I
It costs very little to telephone 
out of town. At night, for ex* 
ample, you can call 100 miles 
for 35 cents*. What the call 
costs is a mere trifle compared 
to what its tcorth! Hearing 
the voices and sharing the 
news of distant friends or 
home folks is next btst to - 
seeing^ them.
0:30 P. ilf. Standard Tim
/
Tbii*BeiltiT-eleplvoiievompanY*<>f.'Pennsylvania*-1--
>,TOQ, WILL CAUIT*THe NATIONAL JOY SMQKS? 
_________.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKNECIE TARTAN, tOESDAY. JANUARY 29. 1935
Indians Are Democratic
Stanford Students Taboo 
Neckties amJ Hats 
On. .The Farm _
THE CARNEGIE CAMPUS-,.is' 
er talnly a second Alaska J on the. 
old winter, days weve., bqprihava'gV How'that. .wind, ,'does.- howl 
rpund the. building and across-.the. 
Cut-^-and-theres nothing m'dre^do-: 
'omfortable  than. a. Df(lr\'oIchilly, 
aoktes on a  cold ;.day^, o -weve 
choseii spmeqlasey^qcks that will 
^lovide warmth' and stilt he:-fashv ionoble.. At the:'game8;-oiL'tbe cam- iiis, In- the' country,.-at'-the frater* ,lty bouses youll And that woolen' plali}s to match .the, tie ;a&.nearly i possible Are. just tvttat.-^s being chocolate Br^y;
shoes in particular.','attracted /b\ir acntipn . niitnber 'one he y fcrDwri oalf brogue yyii crep. soles and .heels^which^ls ,just the. proper thing- for. knockabout .wear'
buckskin;. '' '..plaiti to'1. . V'crpL rubber'tinderfoot ; hoteasily spotted./or' -scuffed - and' ' unusully I light andi-'sprln'gy and comfotiable tbis-shoe is becoming -lnoreas- ngly-populan.'on the campuses'of nanyeastern,. -universities'.
heed .'to formai, attir. The. newest^hfl .smpothes.^,' looking-.tuxedoes -arid tail'. coBia ar tailored- iji ^midnJghtibJue ... ,V the pnt&jar^ ptei;nd,^ave ^w silk*: stripes.; Th- n^wer taUcots
arid .iviOi.. Vrfronts.: .Both ,:ti) j]po'at$ and. tuxp'djb ,wlde'japelBcOv'eredvVtth/dull jibbed. 311k., The double breasted tuxedo.ia referred lf..'ypji,,are' Titiilt' 'so. ihat. Jrtu can we^r/thls' typ.e"Well. Dre.ak Shirts, fine .pique, 'and:, collar's; are; ot w/hfi' typi0;jw]th large deep-febs/ Patent leather' cwfbrd^ 'are.' still1 in' vitgiie ';for fobtwfeavr;i ;*he' neatest hat is' .a. :,m.tdnlgb't':blij,e ::homb'urg, anflthEi'overcpat is'the'least'.thlhg' tb'J-Vdrty' -'about altho'ugtt;:,a:h S-- ford. grey, c^shmer e;: 1.8 preferred/ Whtte^'fleecfe tiae'd- 'gloves may be wprn with- tbe customary- whitescarf..... ................   ......<Lets all puli through the finalsande'ir-ds,.,1 aih Junior; 
BOB.A'ARON. :
'Dear, Editor J
................s of . the .Tartan ;haxebeen especially revealing In the .dir rection of its policy. No more healthy attitude,. I: i think, - *lblicatlon aQppt tflrJng-ppJltlcally,.. s ... ^_,=.wbet the^Btutfentfl,,' ^ k .le-.-4ongiip.a9tiy.roa'i that- students' seneraUyi; beganj-r^to. i rea1lze\;that'. thilriplace in.epQiet's^as not peciu.^ llar/th^^^nM^rtio-.not-.accrue'jo' 
them likei-manna, .-ronia beneficent higher source, but thatj^lik'e .every, other groop in society today, they must..;Te&lize.'i.the.,,;necesaityi,sfor
struggle, .1 either objectively, .against; an. existing rframework, i. or;: eupje?;. Uvely.in tha-direction bf crystalUz-, lng -tbelr\.deslrca;/;Jn- order tq.,get. what-.- tbey^.%waQt.-;. I..cannot-.un:. ;tiy say. that ihe, Tartar)..
in the Hut wants, but the mere conscious effort.; on. i the Tartans p&rt,to raise,student uuesot^for ardent sqlutlonievpkea : tjils alightIKAiae^,"More; and toy , C CCCCcome -.to ;jelIze,;thJa -idgntitywUh the.world.??: outside. r.Wev^feej-Vit acutely,- /..suppose, .Ab.out: ;in,:hpur iifler . c6minencenieiit,;k:,'w.l\n1.. ;o\ir: new iflheepajcia jbegip.8;  tO;; rec#jveUs'. first ; .ecoypratc,anaAysls-, In school, however; - there; are dear.analogies, .behyeen;.-OUP.Uoq aQdJthat in,tlie(;ffOEld-p'Uielde;, We have here reflected the great- tt.lalain. the diminished budets;"pf us- all;; we/9Se the',attempts-,of, the ecer.nm.ent-: feebly-' to ameliorate our-. piight'A in-', the. FJEJRiA: at& sjn. acuool,  .-Whe.n National Socialism;- financed Ly, the desperate Industi'iaj^ rulers of the Huhr,;eElpped;the (3e.p-. man Republic, Carrcegie .felt, r4peu< cussions in an- Intimate manner. Of ,.course;.-we. spatticlpa.Ce' ini
a-re-Just as (Varledvt.-Invthe light)of' -ihsac- facts-,- tt^secms. o'fideEt- that we. sho.uld> begin^JIle.!.deyelopment' of a political cons.ciouane08; of? a 
mLng oi claaaforigroup existence; rhe Tartarja. efforts c.srdo,anucli ttfward the.-awakenlnp of.!auch-:ca: wntiment >, r  fperiapa: v--th'e;i stiidjenl. coverument' .will .-reepondv to.f such- ^ctivlty as.-: it^Beesi.feaalWe. v-.It-.is *eri po9sibIe;that:Btudent govern-- rawt.wJir'denftr.b.'irnmi'ltavPteaent. igorously, sectarian.: makeup- and- ^c,omo -  at...-jyiherf,-. mpre.,.\;aHve na more representative. ^ In thei meanwhile, I want to commend to carnegife,studentfl:gie6erally..thexex- 5!De organizations';.'ifor;.fluch>;ex- p esslon. I^terestnln: .eiternal -af*: 
ai Is .CRn' wel1 he.-^eryed through tendance, at the sbhiioHs nfew open1. jwumv the ,Saty V*lvf: th%-.?Tats-j " ^elcomea.i evenipUada- fiir* ietri; itt;poJlcy ; there:.
nnuation. the-National Student ahi e* whichu'Bv6wdlyi>tftkeiMp
vTitaiBlyt-the.ihareuitd*.
j. Paloi Alto, California. Dear Carnegie)
Those characteristics that differ ontiate, the Stanfordensis' Student! liroin- other members of the Phylum Universit are very hard to give in a concise fashion, giving at ' th< same time  picture In true cloi and proportion. .
. One characteristic of which w ara very proudthat or freedom iij educational activitiesis the direct reeult of tb,e alms and work of our founder. Governor Leland Stanford, and our first president, David Starr 
Jordan. Plaudits go to Governor. Stanford for- creating a living and vital memorial to his young sou io. Dr. Jordan go our love and ad- njratioa ior his strong personality.
.thougli^naturaily liave custome hich .appear .'and; grow,- we have never felt required -to maintain themvBs traditions::  : Early. Hlstohy Upset:.. Stanfords.early hielory iwas '.oni fraught with- fin'anciai difficulties national panics,, and iaw auita com bining to give: Stanford' the choice
fight necessitating the concerted 
ellprts of administration and faculty and student body; which drew
univerRity.Stanford lives, up to its name of .The 'Farm In many respects. The estate was .originally used prlma: 1ly as a stock, farmthe,Sanford' trottibg horses were famousf in the eighties. .. The 'farm ., iS comprised of 8.000 acres of. rolling .foothill land' covered with the* oaks flrsC seen by white: man when the Spaniards rode-up tho valley centuriesago. Sah Francisco 1b leas than_hour: away-yet' far" enough* t'o give' us comparative' isolation'.  Stanford Is, indeed; a residence university.' No sunbonnets are In evidence, yet jthe students are far more Informal. In their campus dress then at most tlty universities. >. Women listen in nder to tales of -places -whero eds trek. to classes baited and. gloved; the men guffaw at.the.Idea, of any undergraduate appearing in lass with a necktie of any descrlp-AResStudents don't Revolt. Stanford'and its students "most closely fulfill the Idea of a farm nnd its Inhabitants on the day act aside by. the university for work-....the Convalescent' Home.Here'in one-corner of the  grounds llttlo San Franciscans released from the Stanford hospital, 3w their health in our sunshine and country air. - The students undertake with enthusiasm the various,,:tasks, set themcut- ting hay,, driving teams, mowing lawns,' felling trees, washing'windows. selling to each other cooling drinks and- candy, repairing , and paintlrig toys, entertaining the .children. and, perhaps most' enthusiastically, eating the tremendous bar1 becue supper-ln the evening 'One uepectB that, the-nurses-look with .leasure toward the quiet which follows the invasion, and.'that ^.sklll does not always accompany ambitious: Jntont; but; Stanfbrd' students feet too big a kick out.of the day. to give It. up.Stanford 'students have often been criticized for their"apathy In matters pertaining to . politics and conpmics .of.the world. An integral part'  *' * .......idea of being Hber- ally-educted is- belief - In' freedom of thought: and -:  speech. . Apathy does not. exist but freedom does rather seem to discourage . that ioud type of revolt against everything bo, recently evinced t other iniversltles.tn California. The atu: dents do have Interest in ideas of wider than campus application. Certainly the-students take advantage of.opportunities for heaving the1 views of outsiders on a variety of subjects to a reasonable extent. Ttte-Coitcert Series-which is-stu- flerit-nvanaged  gives, us a .grand group; of concerts. each year;-The organ recitals, which re 'given each' Thursday and Sunday after1 enjoyed by a considerable group of students who nd the qlCHWb'r'foln'the: Chpel real felaTtatlon. Tuesday evening lcturs- brng men- and wolnen hf world importance to. speak. San
the Opera this past season saw :
for Joe Penner is not coupled witii admiration for Katharine Cornell.
Dear- Dad,-Send Car I Stanford has rain.-in the winter; then' one' realizes too keenly how great are distances- between places the campusthe Sigma* Nu- se. perched: up .'on a hill ad3aIs Speed or Leisure at Reins 
Of Modern Industrial World?
Meaning of Word, Leisure Corrupted From Inexact 
Use; Originally Implied Individual Control Over 
Tinie Instead of Freedcm From Responsibilities
By Rosemarie Pierce Leisure after' working hours' Naturally, -ljeisure -. from nine t( five?. How quaint. - It is speed, we isply' informed, that
i the need for him
may sound, there of'speed, operating business world, howbver. One (the speed of. the race- horse, :vibrant; glorious, and flawless in motor coordination;, and-the other Is-, the  speed of ; the runaway, frenzied, jerky, and uncontrolled. ' One. the steady :fiow of energy from 'a well'Stored battery; the other, a .mad clutching^ for . strength and support from outside forces.'.It,-is. these runaways who'upset tbe apple cart of businessthe people who react blindly to the de* mana vor keeness and efficiency by attacking everything with wild fury. They would think it phlegmatic and indecisive to stop'and eigb the -possibilities open .in the a problem; they i* iediate action. Their p Do something-do thingbut for Heavens sake dont
office -carries' with it a decided air of amusement and a mocking murmur of the inquiry, "How can- pickles  be bottled, or letters dispatched, in a fog of subjectivity?'.' it isnt  necessary though, to go to :thes extreme of a subjective fog. The real meaning of th. word leisure, like so many other words in our language, has
generally to the amount of tii free to oneself,' after the fulfillment of vocational demands. The- root ,meaning of leisure, however, suggests, not hours of freedom from responsibility, but time under thePerhapscontrol of the individual. _ business and Industry alike, reach a higher, stage of efficiency if more people
ly scamperlng-about, in an objective fog oi uncoordinated motion and a subjective fog, not of thought,
scape., from the windows of a fastly and rhythmically across the
tho train, but bow much , wearier
track than they do when watching objects in the distance. Too close concentration on' the immediate problem confronting the mind, also, likely to encourage shortsighted- nd a confusion of' values; i comprehension ot the taskdistant background, and in relation to surrounding objects, develops strength through calm poise and mental leisure;
College Students Go to Night Clubs; 
Wisconsin Brings Club to Students
By LOUISE MEIXNER 
An answer to the problem -of 
providing1 a student' recreational 
center which will keep large num
bers of good-time seeking collegl- the university campus
night club of its OHeld In Student Clubhouse This- unique Institution has operoverwhelming success. The night club is held in the student clubhouse,., attractively arranged -. .to suit the needs.of the patrons. Al-stronger than 3.2 i local night club,n,;or roadhouse boasted of equal volume, of sale. In the fall and winter evenings the night club a floor show, lighting .effects, and a> master of ceremonies.The- success of Wisconsins  enterprise has set the., staid and. con-.Hive'authorities' of some colleges buzzing. The fact remains, however, that the'idea, having un* dergone a years period of- expertthrough the best of shoes, so that students, hav.e been known, to. use that fact to parents as a reason for having a car  it would save ihoe leather. Early morning claaa- is seem .a. very cold prospect to students who often face chilly fog
sltles; when snow falls half ' an loch. up. on the Coast Range, as it may once in four years, studentsso- lip -to U by carloads...............
A genuine- feeling of democracy 
exists, which' is one of the nearest 
hlngs to a tradition that weihnve. 
Two- customs typify the easy 
friendliness extant : Our atmiable hello custom stake's' newcamera feel 'arrived.at once. Giviug people ifts to the campus frpm the .town .v mile* distant, may. cover the bus company .with chagrin, but it brings larger, acquaintance and sends a friendly feeling throughout
large percentage of 
the students.are completely or par- .{ally' self-supporting: " Men and women Work as hashers^waiting table to youpaper routes, typing, gardening: any kind of job held by. a student is a mark of superiority rather than- in any'way
dismentatioh, has been exceedingly successful. Since" Wisconsin has broken the, ice, many- other collegiate Institutions are talking ovi the. practicability of night clubs < their own campuses.Has Many Advantages
of the common objection of authorities and parents to the students frequenting night clubs, roadhouses, and dimiy lit dives, there ' ntages. The patronslve than the more or less cosmopolitan clientele of the many of the social gathering points. Id
a social atmosphere^ A third advantage would be In the economy. Refreshments, sold without profit,
union between sorority and dormitory. That  feeling exist? to some extent between the mens dormitories and fraternities, particularly evidenced when student elections come. A hall caucus and a Row (fraternity) caucus determine the nominations; yet no  -1 gets permanently  wrought up.
ment Is quite alive, with Its' work concerned quite as much with constructive mattersranging from
I THE
LOOKING Cd Aii
'Digressing a little from line of chatter, we want to give . a recipe for a home-made facial. Take our word for Itit is a simple ' remedy that does wonders0 for a sallow looking skin. All you need to work with is one egg, a tew ico
egg, and beat the white until it is stiff. Thoroughly cream your face, and then lather It with the egg, applying the. yoke first. Allow the application to harden tor twenty minutes', after-which, time wosh It completely off with hot water. Cream your face again, and after Ironing It with the ice for a few minutesyour rejuvenation will bo complete.' Back to the usual routine, we wonder if. you know about the cer tain store that carries a special line, of sample shoes end cancella- tious? Under the psuedoqym of 'Peeping Top we discovered that their stock contains models which come from two well-known Fifth avenue, New York;, booteries. Can
pay a visit to the shop.Now is the time for all fashion fans to treat themselves to a cock- tall bag. For. the benefit ot those 'io are not In the know, these bags j semi-evening bags, ond -n with'any dressy costume. Elizabeth Arden has put out
henge purse, mirror, and comb.
pact, lipstick and 'clgorette trimmed in tho same material. Tho- compact is a miniature of the cocktail bag.
change purse, mirror and comb. A tricky little catch opens the bag, vd a chromium finish completes it Lest we forget, we must tell you about the- traveling-powder boxes. They are just perfect for the croes- onlineni lady; in fact, we felt like purchasing a train tlckot to some- i we could-buy the box. In orchard chromlum.-the top ot the- box Is shaped like a roll-top desk, and can- be pulled back to diBJust for youwe hunted- around shop that eaters only, to and misses'.'.They b'aolutely do not carry any,large sizes; Sounds dream, doesnt' itbut it' fa true. "Were, not bragging, butdescribe the dresa we bought there, because we want you to. ' J .' the'sme advantages. In black mat- loee, this street dress -Is built along stream-line lines. The- collar is especially so, and is trimmed with of white braided cord, The patch pockets are also . of whlte'b'ralded cord, as ls the front of the belt. The sleeve is the bell sleeve, faced with a- tiny' of white cord. Snooty, to say the least. -The two-piece dress is back, and > the evening designers, have applied it' for evening wear. Appropriate wilh any long skirt Is the
or Code to plaire'for a-new theater as'with the more ..static matters of-student discipline,..... ^ .There is ao. much to the community, that a letter - such as this leaves untold much that is Impei
dents; tales of the beloved' Dr. Jordan; tales- about present- faculty members; you must take Citizenship-as a' frosh; see'the Stanford football team in victory and defeat; see the- bills green and turned .brown; face a . Monday eight oclock. after a week-end iu the cits; go to a campus Jolly-Up
WilburIn other words, you must first become a Stanford student. 
Sincerely -yours,MARION STOHEY, President. Womens Conference.
noticed that chiffon flow- tlie latest evening accessor- w;. . Iss. ; With-tiny velvet leaves and> the tHon-1 stems, these flowers..add the righttouch to your ensemble..
supply tho names of the shopB *here the above tnay be purchased. Please phone. on .fYiday evenings only.  .
J "AlumniNews
PITTSBURGH, OUAN f - Men of the Pittsburgh- Clan are lunching every day at the Downtown Y- M. C. A. A special room' has been reserved for this purpose. All members of the Clan are invited.
_____Cuyahoga Falla will be heldon.February. 2 by the Akron, Ohio, Clan. The price Is $1.50' per person. Mr. T. B. Gothan Is secretary for the affair. All members-of the Clan are invited. ______:
Junior Prom . . ,
URBAN ROOM
Hotel William Penn
l6 to 2 a. mPer Couple $3.50
Friday, February 8th
TICKETS At Y OFFICE
R.O.T.C. Poll Proves 
Students Want Peace
 ConUnuLFteiQ Ptse 1 . . 
dents are reading extensively on the subject.Locker room conversation frequently smacks of Internationalism,-one editor points out, while another says, Peace Is a popular hull-sesslon subject, with milch in telllgent discussion of it. This same editor continues, Upon the peace Gubject alone a dents beginning to get awoy from their provincialism and narrow ness. They are Interested in a war less world and will work against R. O. T. C.V Literary ( societies 
more discussion to the question of peace, and chapel talks dealing with It are becoming more popular, the editors claim. Outside speakers visiting the colleges are said have been responsible for some the newly created Interest on t part of the students.Editorials Are Anti-War
taking an anti-war stand In contrast to those editors have noticed an Increase in sentiment for peace, the following
vor of peace movements on campus. In fact, tho students becoming more opposed to pacifism as concerned with a 'detenslve because of the manner In which pacifists carry out; their campaign. We believe In peace, but are not in favor of standing idly by. while our country is open to invasion. Where R O. T. C. Is optional, there neems to be less of a problem than where It Is required. In some of the colleges which roport . no R. O. T. C. units, requeBtB for optional military training courses have been made;Pacifist Radicalism Waning One editor points out tliat "students ore getting 'fed up on the extreme radicalism of' the peace at any price group,' which, constats of a small group ofsocialist pacifiste;" Another suggests that ,aa period of compulsory military service in return for the protection offered by. ihe Government should be served -by every young .man, but this should not be administered through the colleges of the country."At one school, the editor HstB the following as evidences of the increased sentiment. In favor of-peace*, riots, strikes,, demonstrations, protest -meeting, boycotts, suspensions, expulsions.'probations,- and censorships.'' 'Class discussions, have centored on the problem of poace, one' editor declares. At this college, the students all heartily disapproved of the United -States disarming, because of the dangers Involved.Problem Freely Discussed Students are dlBcuBSlng the problem more freely, and' seemingly with almost,unanimous disapproval of war, a college president observes, while another feels that along with an increasing sentiment for peace. "there Is a feollng that the United States should be always adequately prepared for non-aggressive war.1 personally feel that' If It were not for-the waste of time In the cours, (military training), it would be fine to keep it up because students are so opposed to it that unknown to the lustructors they are Inculcating a spirit of imtl-hillltarlBm In the students." another college president declares.Differing from, the opinion of the last president quoted is the followattention to the courses of lnatru
Mitzi Pulls Reporters Heart Strings; 
Child Star Now Princess Charming t
By Guy Halferty, Jr.
Seeing is believing, the old adage Iuus, and if you don't believe that a little, klnky-halred - child- comedlenno can grow up to be a genuine, comely, jstxteen-year-old ingenue, then tho only thing leti Tor you to do is go and take a good look at famous Uttlo'' MIUI Green, ho 19 appearing this woek
Born in New York- City , on October 22,191S, Mltzle has' beeii virtunlr ly raised on the'stutie;' Her mother and father being in the show'business, t>1ie started her career at the age oi three, doirtg small bits on the vaudeville stage.- At the ago when mo9t of us "collltcli people were getting ready to start. Into the first singes of education, slip had traveled over a good .- bit. of - She attended-' pub* I the age of- eight, because.'as she laughed, I couldnt of that! From then on, she ha%s received her education from a private tutor, who travels with her. Mitzi' is -very foiul of (he theater life', and seenis not to miss the comfort of having- a per. manent home. When questioned on this point, she said vellcctlvely, that she has never given-it niucli
tlon imparted in the military division of the university, nnd In no do i believe that they tend tv incline thd mind-of our youth towards war as a solution of our national problfejns. > In special ref.Is of truthful- ess, honor, and aell-sacriflce hich may again be of great uso In preserving the free institutions nt both our_ statu and nation.''Everyone desires peace, but fw i any proper relation between this and obstruction of the federal program for national detenso as represented by R. O. T. C. This modest and Inoffensive civilian organization for military , training could he regarded as the most effective peace organization nt this university." states anothor college
Olhors followed, such as Honey/* :i Tom Sawyer, Huck FJan/ -and Sklppy,' hei' latest picture,- made.: with Jack Benny, being "Trausat- : lontlc Merry-Go-Round. She is ' -'crazy about Hollywood and--the 1 movies. Her next picture will probably be made with Metro-Goldwyn- Mayor.
Mitzi is really the young: actactress; Mitzi. iHnJos. - Only u short.: time ago-featured as a chlld^-as-In : such roles as . that ' rV*'Lljtic Orphan Amite, he hus undergone : the inevitable change, and nu ur?c>.^j suit is libw a very pretty,' atul Very | g.-own-up girl.. Hor blonde .locks, that' usod to be just a mn&B of cur- ' ly- kinks,- aro now- long imd- wayy.-- : Her teeth uro as perfect-' as' could : b'o desired, mid her brown-eyes off-  set au-averago heightabout-flvo foot seven. She has acquired a : large following of admirers, whlolv can be proved by the volumes oC . fau mail that litter- her dressing room. When sbo was queried'^
mother, who. breezing b.uslly In just nt thnt momont. said-proudly, Trunks full. ' may dear,' and.^ by
all acquired in Chlcogo lust./wsek!. 
Success has as yet left Mltei un- : ^polled, charming nnd 'ready A^to obJJgo, which is probably due-to her never having known any-other :y; v kind ot existance. A fow - other facts about her disclose thut she likes roast beef . , , rare . " :ond, of all things . . . spinach : . . , probably a big Secret of htf success' . . . hobbies are -, collecting perfumes .. .... - lending fan mall . . . llkca taiVor-' ^,; ed clothes . . . would like to go ^ io college someday . . pickod;up .- V ; her Impersonations from watohlng the stars act . . . M radio. . . favorite city . ,-, Ohlcti- go . . . would like to started writing poetry gave Itrotten! . . .. 'to youP reportor'6 av of thinking . . . the biggest' >oson . . . for her consistent ^ iccess- ... la hor own, pood , pV: lam......and her good ol Dad. -
| STUDENT NIGHTS!
| every Wednesday and Friday
j a* g@agspjg?r-.;
featuring Will Rysb.an.ek 
jpKB&t/jt M and H10 Schenley Dance Band 
iroii Tan until Two 
zr \ ~. v Vfith Breakfast at Midnight
1| Special Rates to Student Parties
g For inionnahon. telephone MAflower 6400
^ FORMAL DAHCE every SATURDAY NIGHT
2 DOLLAR per person
KtrMMrMrwrMrMmnr*frwi :
GroppSed by a Goofy Gander ? 
. . . A/ O/c/ Cjo/c/
When youre mauled by 
: a Mushy Masher; at ;a masquerade ball: . LE .< 
dont struggle * ... dont give in ... Simply ,, 
light.a smooth Old Gold and think of other 
matters:. Old Golds delightful fragrance will 
charm- your senses ; v ; apd brnig him to hiSk
__________ i

---------------------------------------------------

e anr .i - ,.$*&*%%, *5^ 3
THE CAKNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1935
(Ehe dTatrucijte Partati
PROSE J&ATFLOWEB 
HCKA Editor-------
t Techonoloa?* EnElisabeth Stuart, Uni 
' REPORTERS: -Toby Ciri Liria Brin, Dorrth - Lord, Alberts Me Katherine Schreibe!, James Stewart, Joses Welah.
OPOBTS STAFF:
CIBCUIiATION STAFF:
:k<mberger, Martorio Welninu
Ifebert Robleon.
1
Carnegies Particular Problem
|T IS NOT unreasonable to expect of insti:'JL tutlons of higher learning that they are 
able to Bay to their graduates Immediately 
aftr commencement Now you are ready to 
. find your places in society ub useful, Intelli
gent members not only of your particular en
terprise but of your community as well."
Bight now, Carnegie cannot eoy that.
^ Regrettable enough It la that its engineer
ing curriculum lacks the cultural element nec. issory to make of its students -well-rounded 
.human beings. While we still have a fouryear course its futile to broach that subject. 
But that e^use should not be used to dismiss 
th problem of education In government which 
has not been adequately solved here.
Intelligent voters, well-informed citizens as 
a result of greater Imowledge o'? government 
was stressed In a previous editorial. Another 
prisse deserving emphasis is the need for col
lege trained men in governmentIn positions 
of public service administration.
 "  The day- has passed when the butcher, the 
baiter or candle-stick maker could step Into 
governmental positions requiring intelligence, 
foresight and leadership, merely because they 
"had played their politics wisely.
. Jri response to this Increasing demand for 
trained men- colleges and universities through*
- out the country are establishing or enlarging 
-'Upon their courses designed for students who 
are preparing for government Bervle in pro
fessional or other capacities. Government has 
 'flnllv - become a career requiring special 
training.' Sut consider Carnegies meager response:
 'A course in American Government and Poli
tics given one semestr every other year as 
an elective to seniors.
 A course In Problems of American Govern
ment alternating with the aboveone semes
ter very other year as an elective to seniors.
' These courses reach about Iff per cent ot the 
students at the mosL
We do not dispute that they are good 
' -courses. We do regret that they have been 
de-emphaalzed to such a great extent.
If they could be given two semesters every 
yoar they could be made to include some so
cial and political philosophy and some train
ing In public service administration.
 Engineers would find themselves particular
ly adept in this type of work because their 
technical education disciplines their minds to 
^ such an extent that they become keen and 
analytical  quallties eBBential In administra
tion.
 i -Crowded schedules at Carnegie make the 
problem more difficult than at most other
 Bchools "but still certal'.riy not: Impossible. We 
do not presume to say which courses should 
- be dispensed with to make room for adequate 
J'*educatii>a sa -government. We do -belie'
' though- that if the entire curriculum was ca 
_ ftii[y scrutlnfzed^and each_ course correctly 
- Evaluated such education would be available to 
-' very student before ho graduates.
What Is Being Said
" Thev may read In the paper that banks-want ' to lend but does the actual attitude of the 'banker confirm this as It applies to the average person? The feeling generatly Is that you are willing to make loans, but only on <*- lateral that few possess."You cannot sacrifice peoples savings,- their investments of whatever nature, by " forced sale, or continually harass them about their debts, without creating a bad state of mind and causing ultimate repudiation.. member, they have ample precedent for - repu
diating
Arthur Brisbane':'
me to believe In that nonsense. It will be 'pleasure for some .nation, East or West,- wake us from that sweet dream,"
'''/."Francis Bowes Sayre, Assistant Secretary ot Peace is not to be gained by mere .'Motional appeal ; v . It fe when political and ^economic conditions become intolerable that ::Vm#nfight . . . America faced with two alter*
War Can be Conquered, 
Cecil Believes
By Edward Prlee Bell
Viscount Cecil of Chelwood, great-shouldered, long in body, gray-halred, alert, the large striking feature of i
ing coal fire In his London home. ' It was a dark day in tbe big town, but the end of the was all window, giving on a little garden, flood of subdued light poured over Englands peace-seeker."We bold firmly to our.faith In the possible Ity of establishing peace, said Lord Cecil, We never cease to work for 11: you can not it without work. Influences against peace are perpetual and perpetually in mbtion. Mankind Is advancing. Diverse points of view in conflict. . Irritations, suspicions, rears result, and peace Is endangered. The world
be averted?
Drift Toward Trouble averted by Intelligent and tireless labor against it, but not otherwise.'The natural .drift Is toward trouble. Men. ! bound to differ, and when they differunless they can be made to thinkthey get steamed up for a fight. We have been close, Indeed, to perilous events In Europe recently. There was a potential war in the Saar matter, and there was another In that ugly quarrel be* Yugoslavia and Hungary. TbeB<
And then something was done. The League-or Nations Intervened with vigor, precision, and mmon sense, and.the menaces almost miraculously dissolved. A very ' splendid achleveijftiWaw . national self-sufficiency.. ^Uonallied international trade. If America does ^pt :'brlng. its international accounts Into bal- ^nce by increasing our Imports, then the rest ^4Ml^..world:.wJJl..dD..J.t..ior..U3....They. are al-_ 
doing it" . . .
WSwenry Ford: The depression would.be t
______.. Tejr; houU .taks .h^ld of' therconntry,,wr na It witl^ food,
hope for conquering \
solely by virtue of SSb members. If its bers lie down, dodge their responsibilities, fall act. the League, of course, is Impotent. Happily, in the case of the Soar and Yugoslavia, the Governments of the .League, and notably the British Government, grasped .the nettles, ,and the nettles proved harmless.
tendencies affecting the League?
seeking peace In collective pov?er. Those tokens disturbed every enlightened observer, for they signified a sure movement In the direction of renewed war.'You can not have opposing armed camps without war. This is so becausevihese camps will not understand each other, will not trust each other, will not meet around a'table to solve their mutual problems. Thy stand
It all is glaringly self-evident.And the collective system?
Based on Reality The collective system, the League system,
worlds indivisibility Under this system there : latently-hostile', campB.It is a brotherhood for' attending to a brotherhoods business. It- Is a world organization for dealing with those questions and needs which belong, not to one nation wholly, a region wholly, but to the entire family of nations.-It Is a scheme for viewlqg world interests
nounclng all thought of one consolidation of strength pursuing Its ends as against another, and thus violating the first principle of both world prosperity and world peace.
.Well, I believe I did start the Ballot. What is your object?Our object Is threefold: first, to show the
Is the Ballot to he universal?1 It is to include all our citizens eighteen and >vc; It is a nti How do you do
Five Questions Asked 'Send workers from door to door with ballot-papers and printed explanatory mutter. In two the workers call for the ballots. It the citizen wishes oral explanations, they are "supplied.' " If'b'allbts'-have- been 'marred,' new- ones are available. Sometimes lively debates arise, and these we like; great purposes Is. to. quicken national feeling and thought. In the Woolwich District pne of our workers, a sturdy, elderly woman, wi somewhat apologetic.' She said: 'See that cottage there? rgot three men meeting there every night, and theyre hotly disputing over the Ballot. Truly excellent, I said: a democracy should have opinions, and should know why it-has them.  What is. your questionnaire? .We are asking five questions, calling for 'Yes or No, with or without explanation commentary.The questions are: 1. Should Great Britain remain a member of the League of Nations 2. Are you in favor of an all-round reduction of armaments by. International agvei Are you in favor of the all-round abolition of national military and naval aircraft by inter- national, agreement? 4. Should the manufacture and sale of armaments for private profit "be'prohibited' "by ripteruatioiml agreement *Do.you consider that if a nation insists c tacking another the other nations should bine to compel it to stop by. (a) economic and non-military, measures;- (b) if necessary military measures? . *How.lng has the ballot-gathering- been in progress, and when will It be.finished?It has been in progress for six months, and. we expect the last votes to be .In by Easter."Is there yet clear evidence as to how the; Ballot is going? Affirmative Vote There Is clear evidence of an overwhelming affirmative, vote. The declaration In faVor of; continued British membership in the League^ will be nearly unanimousabout 97 per cent:  think the Government already is' feeling th'e effect of this remarkable expression of nation* .al opinioni I think the bold .and .proper steps affecting the Saar and the Balkan Imbroglio were not absolutely unrelated to the revelations of our Ballot.'.. Our first aim was to stir and guide'natlonal . thought, to awaken our people to th danger
Dear Emily:I am writing tbl6 letter because I feel very disgusted Indeed. Amy, the girl that
that Mr. Dick  Bellremember?Of course, it'Isn't as though I were jealous or anythlifcg, but It does gripe me when a girl with less education than I finds her- college boy- friend. (Hes going to
anything for the!world, but, do'-you knotv, 
him.what counts; And she -has been going' steady with him two years now, - '
- He-takes-her. to so-many nice places that Ive never been to and to dances-'-! . read aboutlater In the paper. He comes
college, but the boy next door, the one who works In Jones warehouse, has a long, snazzy, green coupeso you cant al ways go by a' mans education. ^
Well,- as I was saying, she bought.a new evening;' dress; a beautiful pink satlu one with no back ln It at all! And Emily, she has a mole on her backI saw It. But really,: the girl is Very-pretty, although she Is two yearB older than I. I was happy,.a.t first that. Bhe should get such' a'lovely drees, but when ?he looked down -her nose at me and started counting all the even* ing-dresBes she bought this year and their approximate, prices (Ill bet thats
Macons,' so how she can afford all those clotbeB-is beyond me. Of course, ! know she. adds to the prlce of eacb dress, but even so I dont seehow she can buy them, sales or no sales. 
And. os  if buying expensive clothes weren't enough, she tells me about the things she.buys Dick.' But when I teil our jealous neighbors .what clothes she buys
that affected voiceof.hers that, she bought anewbrlef case, for Dick;
And;" she added, Vcoroe. see the darling frame I' bought for his pic^ure. $4.98. It
anyhow?I cant .understand, Emily, why. Dick does not s6e-ihrough her line. Ive got to.give her'" credit, though, for trying to appear educated like.the rest of us. But she Is always giving herself away. Funny he doesnt notice it. Why only last-week we' were talking about artists, and Leonardo da Vlncl was mentioned. And. believe it or not, she-had never.heard of him! That'sone time I gloried over her. ........And heres another thing that burns me up. She uses long words and then looks keenly at you to see if you understood what she was saying. 'Once she tried the. word Insinuating on me. .Are you in-sin-u-at-lng?" she asked :in that -artificial tone of hers. (She- was wearing her oxford glasses: .They make , her-look.very dignified,-but they, pinch her
No, dearie, I replied; Im just telling you., Til bet she was disappointed. I was chewing gum at the time, and I guess I must hsive looked awfully, cool and sophisticated like.   . ,But'I -must! admit,- she does foot etrang* ere.- I-cannot say I was ever ashamed'-to appear anywhere with her, especially-when she wears her -skunk fur coat.Gee, its fiinny how I ramble. I Btarted telling you about the new evening gown of.
day off-from work so she will have plenty of time,.to make herself look nice.She also showed me the shoes she bought to go wltii tbe dress. Silver ones. Aren't they pretty? she said, flashing
disgust-or no disgust .I am sort of proud that she Is going to this dance Friday night because, you see,. Emily,\shes
Senator Nye Visits 
Pittsburgh
Senator Gerald P. Nye, the man back of the . munitions. Investigation, spoke last Friday at a meeting, of the Foreign Policy Associathe only girl, from our street that .will , ever have been to a college prom.Well, h guess' I better stop, ir Ill hajfe i the letter.Lots and lots of love,PATRICIA ANN.P. Ss.. She gitve me five sample bottles of perfume. I'll give you soma when you
______________________Margaret Parkas.
ould be practicable In such countries
lea Invitedperhaps, in those countries in their present forms, but (h most of the countries of Continental Europe. And the declaration would not be overlooked by even the nations
f the arms iakers.-Tfce DuPonts who thattbe United States would 
be a German Dudley D.province but Pendleton. Jr.for their patriotic activity, he said, dickered for three months at the most critical point of the war over the percentage of profit to be allowedthem in building a powder plant for the government at its own expense.
. Discusses Government Control
The question of government control of the munitions industry was by no means settled- In tbe mind .of the Senator. Opponents of control point to export figures to show that less than a boat load, of munitions has been exported during the last year and that there is no need of control. This the Senator countered by saying that the export figures are based merely on the labels of material passing through the customs and that It seemed a little fishy to him that as soon as trouble breaks out in South America there should be a sudden demand for a certaln-brand of American typewriter.
The charge that the government could not produce as cheaply as private Industry, Senator Nye met wilh figures from a  report  uncovvnte industry. Later-when -queameet taxes but -because the eminent doesnt have to pay dividends on watered'stock. Government In Partnership with 
Munitions Industry The Senator felt that govern
ship existing betw ment and the arms Industry. The government gave' both Peru .and Bolivia-advice for thedefence of their borders,- in the first case suggesting afleet of submarines and later recommending' that Bolivia also equip herself with submarines to' protect her from Peru. Both fleets were built b the Electric Boat Company, an American conThe government also obligingly
equipped so that Turkish officials could see how. efficient they were and could place ah order with the
I dont know, the Senator added,
- Would'Increase War-Time Income Taxes A step which Senator Nye believes would remove all possibilities of another war is a drastic increase in war-time Income taxes. He- suggests that the tax on all Incomes under 15,000 be doubled and that the tax on all above this amount be Increased to 98 per cent.. As soon as you do that, the army of those who don't.want
A tax of this sort, the Senator added, will take any Idea that is profitable out of the minds of the people. That all mus _ fice- in time of war, must be the feeling of the people. When comes we will be too busy to argue ibput income taxes. The time act Is now.
___.an interview afterwards,, the"Senatof "sai3 that"be Celvs'thi is quit a possibility of the 74th ress taking action on the Jon of war-time Income taxes.. He does not believe that any action will be taken this session the question of government
beyond question.' Let that' determination shine out unmistakably, and the application of sanctions, even non-military sanctions, will be almost certainly unnecessary. *Do you think the determination you speak of would hVe restrained. Japan relative to Manchuria and Jehol?Optimism of purpose - I do. More, than that, I think if America 'and Britain alone had stood solidly together In refusing to accept Japanese export^ , if 'Jtpan violated.the territorial and political <ii- tegrlty of China, Japan would have desisted from the course which produced Manchukuo, Now, we all admire the Japanese people;, we are conscious of their physical, moral, and intellectual power; we heartily admire their rtatlonl traits and capacities. But the world wants peace/ Ppac It must have, or perish. And'peace is possible only under th egis of law. Any-nation whtch breaks the law of the world Is the enemy of the world.' Are you fearful of an early w
Is based on affirmation,-clear purpose, collective rganltatlon and redlness for actlonthe peace-maintenanceTheLlt-----------------------
ing' the next eighteen months President ftoosevelt is due for another
Greek Notes
of fraternity. Tomorrow C.; B. S. "broadcasting chain, Alton wade, from Kenyon. 25,1 geologist' with the Byrd expedition, will talk to Colonel Fred Palmer, respondent, at 1:00 p. m
party .and -dance nt the chapter
_____ ___.1
Adsmion, steward;, and .Clifton P,
....... "S9
THE AVOIRDUPOIS BRAWL was a good idea (even if it 
wasn't original), but I guess the girls around here are too. heavy 
. . . few other than Dragons showed up . . .1 guess theyre just 
living by the skin of their teeth and check room receipts . . . 
seen and heard: Burke-Wettacb; Dana-Nichols; Becker (lone
some) ; Goodrldge-Waggoner; Gllmore-Cambell; Davis-Johnson; 
Prendes-Green; illchmond-you guess; Knapp-Funkhuser; Provost-Carter; Mlhm-Henderson; ' Munster-Bauer; Lewis-Archer 
... by the way, where did all that broken glass come from In 
front of Thistle HaH?
THE HEAVIEST GIRL contest was a put up job . <- . Gil
more fed his girl three glasses of water and an Ice cream cone 
just before weighing in end she won by a scant half-pound . . . 
the lightest girl was cute, I'll have to meet her.
AUTHORITIES REQUESTED that J. Richmond exterminate 
his columnist for insinuating that a Carnegie girl would be free 
with her kisses .. . . tsk . . . tsk. ,
FLASH . . . Carnegie has been playing four other colleges 
In chess since last November by post-card and to date but five, 
moves have been made . . . this age of speed t
ATTENTION: Three Maggie Murphs . . .
That man whom -you caught nonchalantly changing his pants 
In Industries Building hall last week was Freddie Lehman, the 
. baby fullback, who, it should be mentioned, wasnt expecting you.
A FEW PLAYFUL DRAMATS directed Polly Rowles to a 
specified room on the fourth floor where she was, they told her, 
to confer with McNaughten concerning th Arts Ball. . . . she 
gathered up her things and scampered off to that room, only to 
find, much to her embarrassment, that It was the . ... oh well 
. . . keep away from those swinging .doors.
THE BOYS OF SCOBELL hall have been complaining that 
Von der Lauckens snores, which are ordinarily innocent waltzes," 
have been going modern a la Gershwin . . . out pf tune, to you.
SORORITY NOTES: ' Marit Motter has been appointed gen
eral chairman of the Intersorority Formal . . . -score two for the . 
Vlnfcon-Motter combination ... a certain sorority is being glared 
upon by the rest of the:member organizations for exceeding the 
rushing budget . . . such tactics 
What Kappa Slg who recently said It with- orchids to a Birch 
Hall froBh phoned her at four o'clock iu the morning to assure 
her he had gotten home all right?
Hank Sugar Lehne is the newly elected Pi K. A president.
. Congratulations, Hank'. Only Ken Walker can explain the nick' 
name of Sugar.
- Why did William Buz? Flynn, the McKeesport playboy, 
.refuse .to .let a. Ifttle. Inhocent_Acta,stu.dent_.cut Jn.whlIft .he._w.aa... 
waltzing with Maxine Bstabrook at the Arts Ball pep rally? Tbe 
playboy followed up.with dinner at the Grill. Can he be prepar
ing for the Arts Ball?
- -The Tech.girls at the Pitt Med School dance Saturday night 
almost outnumbered the Pitt men. ' Among those we remember 
were Jean Clancy, Helene Beietzselder, Norabeile Gordon, Betty 
Jarrett, Sylvia Ravlch, Dorothy Devlin and gobs of others.
Bucky Malakoff'has been eating quite often at SecherG.'
He -suddenly stopped going there. Wonder if the departure of 
the blonde-haired singer has something to do with this.
Carnegie's own Fred S. Dubln writes Engaged: Fred S. 
Dubln and Mary McGarveythe Ohio University beauty - queen - 
from Clarksburg, West Va. I will spend Feb. 8-15 with her In 
Athens, Ohio. Guess he really means it this time..
..Leon OBrien SiegelOBrien for protectionrose to-the 
height of his glory when .celebrating, his 21st birthday to tbe 
music of Wfii Ryshanck by giving a tango exhibition with Ester ; 
Orrlnger for. the crowd at the Schenley Hotel,
Cliff Boutelle, now known to his teammates as Shucks,*! 
acquired the new moniker while swhnmlng the. medly relay at 
Slippery Rock. It seems he got rattled with so many co-eds right 
at the pools edge and misled his final turn completely and ao - 
, stood'-uf), and gave vent to his feelings with an .exasperated 
: Shucks" before' swlmmlug the last lap. Latest fashion reports 
- by Shucks indicates white sweaters and mackinaws at the 
forniaU this.winterask theSllppery Rock CO-eds.
The swim team had the unexpected pleasure of attending the -. ^ 
.Varsity -S" Prom, at .Slippery 
day, Heat ley.LaweM.
certain pair f honrrint glaases w&s contlnaaUy'paaiid b'ack and 
forth. '
Bill Holiday has a new motto:. "JuetsUtefi&'ieltjpi 
, the further away It.is. the better Utloota.^^^'d^i1
On the Aisle
Last Thursday, January 24, the 
tra'gi-comedy, The AlcestiB, open, 
ed a weeks run In the Little Th^. 
ter. It' is one of Eurlpidg* 
most human dramas, and differ 
from most Greek plays in iliat /( 
ends happily. Tbe AlcestU' vas 
translated by Gilbert Murray, and 
the reading la comparatively ai^. pie and easy to follow, it W43 
staged by Chester Wallace, who gave it a -very modern touch. There was a chorus, under the direction of Cecil Kltcat, which although somewhat of a surprise was very pleasing. Somehow, Impression is so modern that it |g somewhat disconcerting to find such .a mythical fairy-tale'' end- ing.
Admetus. a Theesalinien king, |9 broken-hearted on. the'deatb of his wife, Alcestls, who, it. Boems, jg everybody's favorite .queen and beloved mistress. Admetus declaim a twelve-moon period of mourning, and vows to his wife that he will never wed again. He receives Into his house, however, - an old acquaintance, -Heracles, the Hero,
death. One of the slavee, howi confesses to Heracles that the noble queen is dead. Heracles goes to the.Durial ground, and ambushing Thanatos, the Greek Death, fights for and carries away' Alcestls. He returns her to Admetus, whose joy is unbounded..
The presentation is unusual and well done. Janet Patrick, ae tbs lonely Alcestls, was queenly and noble, giving fine delicacy to her part Joseph Batcheller, as Adtne- tus, put a great de^l of feeling into his-part, 'besides looking very like a Greek king. Pheres, his father, played by Brmton Turkle, was excellent as the quarrelsome old King, possessing both fine diction and-good expression, but somehow- he seemed awfully spry for a mac old enough to be Admetus' father;' however, the Greeks were supposHeracles, the boisterous, club- swinging strong man with a heart of gold, Is both amusing and dominating. Mary Elizabeth Rowles: gave Intense feeling to the small- part of a handmaid, and Milton' Goldbloom, aB Thanatos, does-some excellent heeling and writhing" as he comes to take Alcestls to the lower regions, or higher regions,' or wherever good Greek queens go. when tbey die for their.husbands. Others in. the cast who did well, were Malcolm Milligan, leader of' the citizens of Pherae, Harry. Long, as a manservant, Alden Smith, the god Apollo, and Tod Egll, the pathetic little son of A1-, cestis. A child, raTe In Tecfl productions, appeared in the cast a9  Alcestls daughter: The little girl,! Jean Bonn,, moved with sweet dignity through her part.VIRGINIA NEYHART.
On Other 
Campuses
University (MCEA) A surplus of $1,014 was recently announced for the year 1934. Tbls. the second time in ' "
The A. C. E., Literary Digest poll to determine the attitude of college. students toward world peace
campus interest
Syracuse University (MCEA.) Isham Jones, popular band leader, has been engaged to' play at the Senior Ball, February. 1. Three student song compositions, select* 
ed after competition, were forward
feature of the annual event.
RUSHING University of Minnesota (MCEA.) L DNlose upon  the heels of one-et most disastrous .rushing sea* in tbe history of the Unlver- -Bity;-fraternitie8-can\e to -the-unan-.- imous decision of the Interfr&ter- nlty Council to abolish the present deferred rushing system and revert- to fall quarter rushing. Actlcn' was taken following the conclusion of formal rushing last week, in which 269 men were pledged to 29 academic fraternities, a record low.Frequent' violation of rushing rules, and the fact that Pioneer Hall, mens dormitory, takes away a large number of men who might otherwise move Into fraternity
i abandonment
reasons tor
University of Minnesota (MCEA) A 1916 agreement between the University of Minnesota and the federal government over compulsory drill on the campus was found In the minutes of-a meeting of the administrative committee Oi the senate on March. 22, 191?. U was thought that . this was the "contract referred to by Ralpa Bishop,: secretary of  tha.' Civilian- Military Education fund.Legal authorities on the catnpue were of the opinion that the con* ' tract was not binding. Tbe document appears to indicate an understanding, but no legal obligation, said President Coffman.
Unlvarelty: of M Inheaota - (MCEA)  An instrument to measure accurately. the percentage of suu- - shine on any given day has been perfected by Dr. L.;F. Miller, professor of PhvRics.. Tha.machine Mv
of ^sunspots' nn i rtcHp*e'= on sc- sune radiated energy. .
(MCE^A)^

---------------------------------------------------

*1. JB 11 ill umiM HU
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
: ..." 
BY JERRY HANSON
aid Mtmn 
I Sinkfeachers
| Sii pp.e ry Rock' Normal 
Swamped, 67-17. ",V
I FA ST POOI, HELPS
Capital Too Mttch for Scots; 
Hoyas Vto Winning Strak
WAS TOO BAD THE,FLOOR SQUAD bad to drop the return game 
li me. Hoyas. All reports seem to Indicate that It was their own 
j(. so they really belong' at the foot of the class.
The crew didnt get worked up before the game at all, at least ns 
as the game was concerned. They' should have known that George* 
vn at home might be totally different from the visitors beat by the 
^riaos at the start of the season.
Carnegie team cant play any kind of a game without spiritt 
to win, -that Is. An anyone knows that big-headedness lias no I 
in sports competition. The Plald.cagemen violated l>oth of'these I [ules, however, and broke what bad the makings of a continued, sue* I 
essful debut. They played aa though there were an entire evening bethem. Not until about four minutes, before the kneli rang did the 
i realize what was happening.  Who wouldn't put on a burst of 
m under such circumstances?
|LPENOERSON, THE SPORTING YOUNG DANDY who immortalized 
under last year, played host to the .Scots while they were 
loing Washington. It le a sure bet that A1 'knows the- Capital City as 
he knew'the Deans Office by now. and that hlsgucst had a 
pretty jolly time meetlhg all the senators and 6tuff.
It was nice of Al to round up all the gals in town for the squad, 
he made his big mistake in giving out his Invitations before the 
ne. Its rumored that the fellows eoultfh't keep their minds on the 
ie for trying to,pick out their respective dates for the evening.
f THE DROP TO GEORGETOWN SHOULD put the Plaid cagers In a 
ie mre practical' mood for the Invasion of the West Virginia .courts 
Ighl. It might be a gala event for the .Tartans, despite the fact that 
ihe dope is agalnst-it, If theyd only' snap out of It from the start 
[sd keep moving. Give the Tartans back.their proper attitude and the 
ilp they showed inthe Pllt game, and I]] wish I was there-to watch 
pile up a score against the Mountaineers.
VtL TARTAN SWISH AND SPLASH team Is oh the ether side of the 
[lable for a change. It took every event that was open to It In the meet 
nst the Teaehers.
And the Teaehers In return, Invited the swimmers to a movie, 
[pool, billiards and bowling ond a danceall of It, mind you, gratis to 
S via the Slippery Rock coach. That's how hospitable^ these 
'small" schools are.
^STATISTICS SHOW THAT. THERE HAS BEEN more attendance to 
{the bHO home games played at Carnegie since the beginning of the
an there was. for all th home games during the two years pre* 
....... Basketball in theeast, like -mid-winter raoing In ithe south, has
[gained a lot of popularity-recently. An enterprising fellow has been 
irp.log mobs away week alter week from double-bill basketball games, 
[faeld in Madison Square Garden, New York, between the local colleges.
ATHLETICS WILL BEGIN TO SLOW DOWN now, with the approach 
if examinations. All Tartan supporters are requested to bi 
/tr to provide against the possible return of that fateful buggaboo,
leliglbility jinx.
ast year it looked ae If the Tartans were well on_the way 
lasketball season when all of a sudden the team collapsed, a
| Tartans Sweep Eyery Event 
To Win Eafcy Meet 
The Carnegie Tech swimming 
team- swept  through to an over
whelming . victory over. Slippery 
Rock Teachers Collegeat Slippery 
Rock last Friday. The Tartan 
tankmen scored heavily, registering 
first and second in almost every 
event, scoring every point possible 
to win with a count of 67-17. The 
pool was exceptionally fast and 
helped the Plaid swimmers to win 
every event with ease in defeating 
the Normal School merman. v 
.The Plaid splashers started out 
fast, Deredyn and Leavitt coming 
in first and second in the 60 yard 
dash. In the 220 yard freestyle, 
Holiday and Charles started out 
fust and coasted through to regis;r first and second respectively 
ith little opposition. The win
ning time waB a:S3. Heatley, Car
negie's only diver,
S k i b sbhow Strength 
In Victor i es 'Over 
Owls, Prexies
FACE MOUNTAINEERS 
TONIGHT AT W. VA.
held it to finish going away in while Dennison nosed out the . Rock swimmers to take end place. Captain VonderLancken
of sixty yards in fast time with
Thelester, .found t
what games resulted 1 Didtables drafted into the quintet: 
r play tackle on a hardwood floi
iugh the plaid cagers provlded entertainment for the balance of 
sdule last year, It would Indeed be a pity to have a classy 
fit like the present split up after playing only half the games.
always get a good laugh out of many of the Intramural tear 
he that prayer.
RATHER STALE NEWS TO SOME, perhaps, is the announcement that 
School of Applied Science of Cleveland, has been added to the 
1935 football schedule. The schedule is not being made much llghtei 
e are still a few .good sized schools around the .country that feel 
' can profit by being victors over Carnegie; the Tartans still 
ie living on the football name won for the Plaid some years 
Incidentally no light has been shed on the "shake-up in the coachsituation. Either great, grave and drastic changes .are being 
^shed up, or else theres a great -deal of inertia flying aroundtake 
pick.
Women9s Athletics
----by----- . 0
MARGIE GREEN
wonder how mauy other Tech* 
besides myself never realized 
liow skillful onr women Tillers Hy are this year. The other
least .-thatIs--what s to prove before the year and this is how he is go- mt it. silica he has more . tisrs than he knows what |Mo with, he has decided to make ns of them.resent varsity, composed classmen can get aloDg ' nicely without the aid of
the);ed 3
[llr- Sommer eliminated all hut twelve, whom he kept to shoot ^competitive scores with other (with the varsities, mind i.  the freshmen). The re* Ws of these were 486, 4S2, and pcctively for onr. team, pceivins . the. results from . the bppo'nents'suciias tlie of South Dakota478, H2 University492, and InDS themUniversity475, and comparir high of 490 the point whereIntroduces for the first,time
*11,
red, ...Wl,uu(.ca lor [pe nrsc UUJC 
ion .ne an<i only womens  fresh-  I1 team in the country; In per- J-condition and side by side with . . 'I'sity. it will shoot its way ine -very top. Just think of it not too tired)rOur-St-tkx- es competing wlth the varsities > IWntr-ttM, other . colleges in 
'hft, Konal Telegraphic Match. uai-1 'i L enler the contest on Feb* itm ani shoot for. a pe- ioiw. I ? "eeks, after which. they - We hope. for them) to lr\r'.ssession of a beautiful sil- 0 ho,,ner,s cup. There will al- olo ni . award3, consisting of a d the heat varsity shoot- pins for the five girls iblnts. their 'fresh-whatvlliey.
,-4 l.ver pins for the flve f i;1' highest number of iol lv6f ^waity Tillers have t lea^igV;0- 30 heres! to. thevfr
Practice Stops
For Wrestlers
Intramural wrestling at Carnegie 
is gaining' momentum and If the 
present plana work out, the date 
for the eliminations tournament 
will he set for the end of February. Practice has Ueen suspended
tournament _.caD)iot.possibly. ..begin much before that time. Practice will begin as soot semester opens, oi4:30...................
The coachipg of the wrestling team this year is under the same direction as last year. Cy Brown Is. talcing an active Interest, and
_________jssful intramural seasonis forthcoming, these will be ceptcd. 
The coaches have announced that it is not too late to go o^t for restling, but susgest that since
The Plaid, medley relay team of Boutelle. Culler, and Leavitt easily defeated the Teachers In a rathei slow race. Leavitt-established an early lead in the 160 yard relay event and Charles, Dennison and Hammerscbmidt widened It to win going away.
The Tartans next meet Is with the Case School of Cleveland February 9 lu the Carnegie pool.  - ------.plaid
margin- aridi' though reported stronger this season, the Clevelanders may suffer 1 defeat han'ing ...fall. The-Carnegie squad seems to be. rounding Into better shape should be In fine fettle for this
Inspired Last Period Spurt 
Against Hoyas Falls 
Short by 4 Points
The Plaid cagers are once more 
having their ups and downs, so to 
speak. Never having been accused 
of being consistent for any great 
length of time. Ihtj floormen are 
still keeping up to that motto. Tho past week saw botn victories and defeat for th Tartans.
The first encounter on last weeks schedule was with the Temple Owls. This game was1 talked up quite a bit beforehand, for the Owls had been having what could be called a successful season in any language. For a while, the game gave all indications of being ae of those lust-minute-anybo ame affairs. However, the S jally showed their superiority that
other defeat, they had been enjoying their record of nine struight
journeyed down to Washington what they could do
getting such hot notices, and been doing anything to excite the fans this season, they were conceded somewhat of a chance o the fact that the Tartans
Students of the Eighties and Nineties were the Ideal college men, Dean Herbert Hawkes Columbia College declared here centiy. The collegG students ofi picked group with ral background tha i of the^present. Dean Hawke:a broader cultural background than those of
Feb. 15 
ian Motif
f}..Mai
Arts Ball 
tas Arabii
Drama and Music will hold their pre-Ball party this afternoon at 4:30 In the Exhibition room. 
Last minute details on the selection -of the" .rcBestra will lie announced in the columns of the Arts  ' News. Arrangements for the lr... de
pletion.The Post Arts Ball will be held the Saturday eveuing following the Ball. The Post Ball dance is open to all students of Carnegie. The same decorations as are used, for the major dance will be used for the Post Arts Dance. Tickets will be $1.25 per couple. Music will be furnished by the Arte Ball 
band
<zdt
T
he high standards-op
APPAREL MAINTAINED! AT 
HARVARD ARE A TRIBUTE TO 
THE GOOD TASTE OF HARVARD 
MEN ... AN EVIDENCE OF THE 
STYLE-SENSE AND CRAFTSMAN
SHIP OF CAMBRIDGE TAILORS.
It is significant that outstanding 
college tailors, arbiters of style, 
endorse Kover-Zip as the only 
slide fastener fit for fine clothes.
J-f-eircy Cjelit...
- ttcn arcTlcraanding therlide.i 
' By with its srnooth Bat effect uncovered zipper rcvcaU a
^Best-dressed" seniors at lead
ing American colleges, men 
whose choice of things to wear 
has a national influence, prefer 
and commend Kover-Zip:
WARREN GRACE
compelled by necessity to play t games In euch quick succession did ;m to have any effect on the playing and they took over esldents by a score of 61-30. tans took nn early lead In the scoring and the Prexies wero entirely outclassed by
the team went down to the capitol city for the return engagement the Georgetown Hoyas, they into their little playmate, defeat,
throughout the first half, and that
Ttviitkle, twinkle,Box Weed-oiits 
Minus JCayoes, 
Lack Thrills
brilliant sophomore player, whose Inc lT)g consistency and frequent speeplace his name high on the list of 
those who 6ha>l shine.
period closed with the Hoyas leading by 10 points. In the laBt period, . the Tartans were still trailing by a score of 31-16, with only a few minutes left to play, when they decided to do some real playing in an attempt to win the game. This last minute spurt was effective. but not enough so,' for tho game ended with the HoyaB still leading 34*30. This evened the score as far as the two game series with Georgetown is concerned. for the plaid outfit bad taken oyer the Hoyas In their.-prc- Cbrlslmas' encounter.
During the coming week, thi Plaid floor squad will have only on trail on their hapds. Tonight they meet the verv powerful Mountaineers, at Morgantown. This will have all the necessary requisites for becoming one of those thrillers
Sbapiro, Krintzmaii, Ely, 
Wilson, Rastaine, 
Boyd, WinBout9
The eliminations of the Carnegie 
boxing squad were held la tho 
Gym last Saturday night. As a 
whole, life bouts were not particularly exciting or thrilling, and there were no knockouts to satisfy the lust ior blood of the fans gathered out iii front.
' In the first fight of the ovenlng, Wilson took over-Taynton for the 14G champioutsblp, on a decision.
Iu a eeml-flnal match, Wisniewski gave n good exhibition of fancy footwork, hut lie failed lo hit quite as often or us huni as his oppo uent, and consequently, Shapiro was udvanced to the finals. In the 1G6 eemi-Unuls, Ely showed some good boxing to win the decision over Dempler. Krlntzmun won the 135 division by a decision over Beall.
By good, steady fighting, Mike Rastaine won in the .155-pound class over Rodenberg. In the 175- pound final, Boyd introduced a method for fighters to protect their handsome faces. , He need a- one- arm system on ms opponent, Har- rv Fryer, while he used his other hand to keep hie nose covered. Incidentally, Boyd won this bout, but this was the only one of the ref* erees decision with which ' the crowd very obviously  disagreed.
In the 115-pound Qnal,Shapiro came through to win his second fight of the evening, when he gained a decision over Cochrane. The linai bout of the evening and of the 165-pound dlvlBlon, was perhaps the best exhibition of boxing on the whole card. In this encounter. Ely won oveT Forsythe, but both were plenty good fighters.
have already defeated the Scots by
Intramiralits 
Slow hut Sure
Cage Crews, Battle Onj 
'Wthout'iTJfiists
50-8 MARK-IS SET
McGill - Heads Ami' League; 
T. X.s, Belts Win
This weeks series of games in 
the three Intramural basketball 
leagues revealed little In the way 
of upsets. The powerful Theta XI 
team turned on the heat to take 
one from the Sigma Nus aud tho 
Delts won haudlly from the Alpha 
Sigs. Medili hall, at present on 
top iu the American league, piled 
up n B0-S score .agaiust the Tau 
Delta Phi squad. In-a game of 
seven and a half minute quarters, 
that means almost a field goiil 
every minute. Beta Sigma Rlio 
turned in a win by a close margin whon they defeated Scobell Hall, and Beta Tlieta PI marked up n 32-22 victory over th D. U.s. This game was a seo-saw affair with the gsmc in - dosbt until !r.to in the third quarter when the Botas turned on a suvprislug burst of
A schedule of ne^t weeks gamos
uary 29, McGIIl Hall 9bs Delta Upsilon.Fdral League: January 28,Delta Tau Delta vs. Kappa Sigma; January 29, Delta Tau Delta vs.
Theta XI vs. Jr. Chem. & Mech.; January 29, Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Kappa.
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
afrie?id
MELLON NATIONAL
SANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Varsity Riflera 
Tk 7, Drop 1
Women. Bag Perfect Score 
' In Telegraphic Shoot -
uary is with a total of seven wine ne loss; Matches- with Rose Polytechnic Institute, St. Johns, nnd Natrona County - High wero by forfeit-; and :those with Ohio Stato. scoring 1;3CC, North . Carolina State College;' scoring 1.310, Iudlana U., scoring 1,395. and University of New Hampshire, scoring 1,321, were beaten by tho Carnegie.scorc of 1,375. The Tar*', tan sharp-eyes lost to the.Univer- aity of Minnesota, whose score was
Indiana University and the Universities of South Dakota and New Hampshire, whose scores were 475; 7&. aud. 492 .respectively..
attle this week. Theso matches will also be telegraplilo.The ilvo highest totals In Mens Varsity timed practice for the r<?ek ondlng January 20 were Mollinger, 285; Abrlao, 278;277; Cullen, 276; and Jonlc, 272.
SECHERS
1714 Murray Avenue
the piace to 
eat
 Conveniently Located 
Atmosphere 
a Music Every 
Evening
HAPPY WILSOH Singing
CONNIE BRCEPiano
The Students- Rendezvous
... no extra charge
CAMELS COSTLIER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. JANUARY 29. 1935
THE 
CARNE GTE 
PLAID
'-'-Faat.tdiM'br Night S Careegto Jnitltat o
Ir the Editorial Board <
Japan Resumes
 Tbe world has recently been awakened to tbe fact that tbe irre- . pressible Japanese were not reformed by the threats and proraivlduale have concluded that since control of China will undoubtedly be hers, there 16 no need for making, baste other than slowly. The
Japan ttbat their original plans have not been altered one whit by the protestations or admonish- , mentfl of the other world powers or the dignified ruling ot tbe League of Nations. Those who
roads into China are now forced realize that in keeping iwith their Ingrained imperturabilily, the JiogoeH of Japan have merely been maining quiet, to further' their
. trained soldiery as suggested by tbe' la6t Manchurian campaign required some time to - enable the
their uncompleted task. It is realized now that It was not an aban-  doned task, merely one "laid upon the table for future certain con- eideration and action.
. 'While the purposefulni
more praiseworthy manner than In military conquest. It Is true thac this trend of Japanese action Is necessitated by the need for more arable.land to care for its teeming population. It is perhaps also true ..jQint foreign military rule -will be
mains tbat these provinces lnently -Chinese, and will remain so, irrespective of any attempt, however ruthless, on the part of . the Japanese to render them otherAside from- economic considerations, which are largely responsible ' for the demand for tlie continuance of Chinese 'liberty made by the Western peoples, it is ob''that th entire world stands in ini- ' minent peril of embroilment in other irtajor conflict, sot because - ' national interest in the matter the part of any other nation, but merely; because the existence of
You're telling meOh Yeah! I heard that before. Why, of course, the exams are over, but. and herein lies the eternal question. Did you or didnt you, or do you or dont you remain? Tl6 ead but true^.some of us aro pick
ingthats that, etcetra.
That even though the exams are rer, there will be no letup In They start right away
Pity the poor night etudent trying to get in a holiday edgewise and can appreciate what it's all about. Some of our group don't Ind this hard and rigid schedule, (at least | have heard It said) but show me the ehap or lass and I'll licit the successful formulae, for there must be several such In or. der to play the gamefor Instance, dates, no social functions, noil anything you wl6h to interpolate.
of the studious students have been tagged (youre it) for illegal parking 01* sumpin. Well, encroach-ing on private property <jacent hill to the Gym I understand is the source of complaint.inder whether this is private property, and if it is, how come the city paving, and also why this
t dance will be Arts.
irted i. campaign which willTesult in world dominion and threat to Western civilization, even the most apathetic are aroused .sufficiently to enable the propo- . gandists.to begin-their work ./openly, and-in a 1
A Dangerous Move
\ The-recent action of the public ntllltythat supplies a local coinun-  lty with1, water has all the appearance of a more made without sufficient consideration of possible consequences. The water com- r-.-pany, tn. tempting to force pay ting off tbe water supplies, but also .^wrecking the fireplugs serve-* their mains.
While'it is admitted that the vptllitr-40-entitted-.tG-payment-in 
'.full for previously supplied water, Kaind that it is possible that their pa- tlence was exhausted by the alow  liibvlHg legal machinery of . the .. small community, it seems that tbe . 'destruction of the plugs was carrying the argument to a dangerous 
extreme.
It should be a fair question to ask whether or not any organiza- .--tion- is vested with sufficient thority to jeapordize the lives and property of a district they supply : by anv such action as the on der consideration. In the eve a' - sizeable conflagration, the firelighters of the district would be rVpractically helple6a. The move w** 'undoubtedly sufficiently forceful ^impress the town fathers with the ^necessity of immediate payment, . but it was also an act to. tempt
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes Oakland
C. S. EDMAN
Idle Thoughts 
 of an ' : 
Idle Night 
Student
Arts College 
To Hold Dance
.Thistle Hall Picked for 
Annual Winter Event
BAND NOT CHOSEN
Ithond
i the 1
Workers Asked lo
Report February 2
The Social Committee of the Night College of Fine Arts, ae well nil night students who ire interested in increasing their points to- ird the Insignia- Award, are revested to . present themselves in Thistle Hall on Saturday afternoon, February 2, at 1:00 oclock. The pose of this meeting ia to dec- te and prepare the hall for the Winter Dance of the Night College of Fine Arts which will be held evening. The committe< quests the workers to bring their n scissors and hammers s avoid any unnecessary delay In tbe preparations.
NIGHT LIGHTS \
' The Arts School boasts a design class that is more proficient in singing than in drawing!!!! Chuck Roup took his Prof home in his car tbe other dayThe petty racketeer! !!! A1 Lois is preparing for single handed combat with the next person who suggests that he could give Jimmy uurante great competition! !!! ; Nell Blochinger reports
picture in. the Plaid, has ceeding in catching up to him yet!!!! They tell me those little white animals known as moths And commonly seen along the floor the wire room are terrific!!!! E Donovan has been on the receiving end of Walt Nolgots black looks all week because he nonchalantly ran into some arches the chain erecting for the dance
cles in SchenleyPark.Bill Vensel I'd buy a paper and print only dance notices.Herb . StoneId raise more swordfish .Leonard SmithId run more street ' to-  CoraopoJiaVJoe. TrachtId publish all of th. Ask-Me-Another book's that Ive written  W. Maurer"Id campaign for more one -girl- clasaesAnne Hanson "Id eliminate all female colReporter!!!!. And if you  think are wild, you should see the they wouldnt print.
Novel* Decorations Scheme 
Planned for Occasion
turnouts at these affairs, a large rowd will be In attendance.
While no definite announcement been made regarding the seleced. Among these are Hermie KumIast year, Joe Pape, who broadcasts regularly from one of the local stations. Pep Houck, who plays lently at the Penn Lincoln Hotel and Freddie Herrick who furnished tbe music for the last Arts
plans will be in the form ot a elty. The motif for the decorations will bring out the idea of a valentine in keeping with the proximity of that day.
The officers of the College of
tickets for this affair. Tbe officers of the College will be stationed at both ends of the third floor of the AxtsDuildlng on Wednesday, January 30, and on Friday, February 1, immediately after classes. Tickets
..jrpose of this procedure, is to eliminate tie duplication of dl trlbution which has been prevalent in the past. For, this reoson the ,lTge(j t0 carry their 
cards with them on these particular evenings as this "1 be their only opportunity to secure tickets for the dance. Admission at the door wlll.be one-dollar.
The Art* committee have invited as their guests for the evening Dean Mary Watson Green and Messrs. Milton, tHornbostel. Hyde, Rosenberg, Schmertz and Warner.
Didja Notice
cheeked off as ancient hl6tory.
THAT the boys and girls from the College .of Fine Arts will hold a Winter Dance on Saturday evening; Please check your Icicles at the door.
That the Arts crowd are planning to have hearts as thel.r decorative scheme. What does this Indicate?
THA.T pleading look on the faces of the studentsbefore the examination. Pleading for the lights, to go eut .or. something.
THAT down In the mouth expression on the faces of the i
which to recuperate.
ly If a certain party continues to get complimentary tickets.THAT the roving reporter ia always roving about something
Howard Durtiin Represents 
Night College of Industries
HAROLD DURBIN
Phil Spase Upset 
By Reggies Talk
Several weeks ago, your friend 
and mine, Phil Spase, let himself 
in for what 16 known among the 
proletariat as a razzing. It came 
about thusly. I had read the ar
ticle 'written by Reginald in which 
he describes a three dimensional projection of an object in the fourth dimension'. Now, Keggle
good although a trifle unlntelligi
self into what he call the fourth dimension and ot his' suggestion walked through a glass - door. The experiment was
evening, while, standing in EngiTo the manufacture Is a pleasing sound, but I was  raged. Reggie had found yet i
Officer Has Earned Two 
Activities Keys for 
Work on Campus
In keeping with our policy of presenting each week a short history of some prominent figure on the Night School Campus, we are presenting Mr. Howard Durbin.
Mr. Durbin Is counted among the veterans of the College of Industries. having spent more than five years in that. College. During tbe entire time that he has spent at Carnegie he has been a tireless worker in the field of student activities. His efforts in this direction have been rewarded by the Night Student Councils of tbe past years. He has three keys for activities work. Mr. Durbin, besides finding time to work on student activities and attend to tbe duties of Treasurer of Iffl College of Industries, is also considered
Sad Lot of Columnist 
Graphically Depicted
Getting out a weekly paper is no picnic. If 1 print jokes, people say I am silly. If I dont, they soy I am too serious. If I clip things from other newspapers or magazines. I am too lazy to write them myself. If I don't, I am stuck on my own stuff. If I do get out and try to hustle, , I ought to be on the. job at my- de6k. If I dont print contributions,  I don't appreciate true genius: and if I print them, the paper is filled with junk, if I
don't, I dm asleep. Now, like hot, some guy will say I swiped this from some magazft. I DID!
Roving Reporter Rests 
From Romping Ravings
splcuoue by hi absence this week. -In any event, the gentle render will not be bothered by his drivel this While wfe avoid prophecy as a
! go to gress, it looks like the Inevitable has happened. If found,
Social Committee 
Asked to Report^
The members of the Social Com
mittee who. have been , appointed 
Xrom each, college are1 requested
Students Reminded 
Of New Regulations
The attention of alt night students, who are registered in the College of Fine. Arts and who have paid the activities fee, Is called to the following regulation. Due to the duplication of effort in the past with regard to the . distribution of tickets for the Arts School functions, it has been decided to centralize
be stationed at both ends of the 'third floor hall immediately after class on Wedof giving out the tickets. Tickets will be given upon presentation of the stu- dents.;xegistratlon card. Sluthe remainder of the student body, have more absence* from class work, 'spend less hours In study.
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL.
Students Support 
Endowment Fund
Night School Students Show 
Interest by Donations
The night .students of Carnegie have Khown their interest in the welfare of the college they attend by their fine support of tbe various movements made in tbe attempts to attain the ultimate figure specified by 'the Crnegie Founudatlon which will enable the school to receive tbe large sum promised if tbe agreed upon amount ie raised* Contributions towards the Activities Building, which apply toward the Endowment Fund,, have^ been made by many night students' udnight .campus organizations. The Shelter House^at the end of the Cut Is due in good measure to nlgbt student efforts and contributions. In addition, the Night Student Council, and Individual nlglit students have made contributions toward outfits for the Kiltie Band; An appropriation for improvements in Thistl Hall was recently, approved by the Council. All these instances show the interest of the night student in tbe welfare of Carnegie.
Farmer Economist Has Plan to Increase Sales
Dennie Pigg of the Davisport section has a formula for increasing sales. 'He sets out a circle of empty nail kegs around the Btove in his store, but takes care not to put out enough to accommddate all tbe loafers and potential customers. Then Dennie takeB one of the kegs
Pretty soon some fellow will get so tired of standing there he will say, Dennie. give me a nickels
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented, repaired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.
American Writing
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5408 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
Scientific Deficiencies 
Enumerated by Studtn]
. Gradually' the - news is broken to us that the commo is not the. only simple thing 16Gs modern science doesn't understat,;It was ff rather piquant itemm--I science knew bow hot It is |n remotest stars, but did not ki_ why peoples noses run wh*n I, weather, changes suddenly. Buis Isn't only colds In the head.Only the other day a startling.! vereal of existing notions about i action of the human heart was iiounced from Harvard Univereih Dietary resolutions are always im der way and they reveal much ntHi certainty about such an old 
supposedly well-known friend &, the human stomach. Streamll&fi comes along to assett that the *.11 to cleave the air fastest is wjihj thick round surface ineteud cl point.' Soidebody has- beeu asking
mpass aecdle polyhy does the to the north.
Laymen have believed that al these questions were auswered h Galileo or somebody several hoJ dred years ogo. Now it turns o that they are not settled at t Any day now science may have w tackle tho problem of why the bifl
chair really go back?
HIGGINS1
American
DRAWING INKS
Fate, for there is no assurance that just such, an'emergency will not
LARCEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND 'STANDAU-StZED -
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00
RENT A TYPEWRITER
PORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIBERTY AVENUE...
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Brandi
Forbet and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANE"
?
 IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
__soji/r irx icc know tobacco was
firs I used about 400 i/cars ago
_ throughout the years what one thing has 
given so much pleasure.. so much satisfaction
They came looking for gold 
.. . but they found tobacco
Early Colonial planters 
shipped hundreds of 
pounds of tobacco to 
England in return for 
goods and supplies.
... and tobacco has been like gold ever since! 
The tobacco raised in Virginia and exchanged 
for goods helped the struggling colonists to get a 
foothold when they came to America.
Later on, it was tobacco that helped to clothe 
and feed Washingtons brave army at Valley 
Forge. *
Today it is tobacco that helpsmore than any 
other commodity raised in this countryto pay 
the expense of running our Government.
 In ilic Jiscal year 19S3-SIf tlce Federal.......
Government collected $J$5,000,000 from 
the tax on tobacco. Most of this came 
from cigarettes  six cetks tax on every 
package of twenty.
Yes, the cigarette helps a lotand it certainly
gives,men and women.a lot of pleasure.........
Smokers have several reasons for liking 
Chesterfields. For one thing, Chesterfields 
are milder. For another thing, they taste 
better. They Satisfy.
 i9J>;-lfocviT*.MYBuToaccoCo. -
