VOL. 30. NO. 4; CRNEGIB ifJS'MTOTji OF- TECHNOLOGY,-PITTSBURGH, PAVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1935
Carnegies Community 
Fund Drive Begins;
: Seek Goal of $6,000
Students in All- Colleges 
Will Be Contacted 
By Volunteers
ONLY ONE DRIVE
VVOL. 30N4 ;OC
Will Seek to Reach Quota 
By Nov. 7; Contributions 
To Assist C. A.
Carnegie Techs part in the 
Community Fund drive starts' this 
*eek. Volunteer -workers will con
tact each student enrolled in tlio 
three colleges.
11 is hoped' by student and lacoily leaders /that . tie quota of 16000 will be Pledged by November 7 The Christian association has 
ade i Comnu drive -w insteadIn former years. Contributions will tsiet the Christian association in carrying on their program as well at aiding the eighty-two agencies ol lhe Community Fund,
Tabulated reports will be kept ot all workers and thoir reported :coDlributions.
The following students have named as welfare workers:' garet Morrison Carnegie College, chairman in charge of Freshmen Dorothy Booth, Eleanor Bright, Bernice Temeles, Elsie Chaman, Carolyn Chancellor, Cuda Squltlevi and Ruth Brahmer; Sop&omori class, Alpba Black, chairman Belly Gleason, Martha. L. Fuller,
lltau invii, Junior class, Alberta McClure, chairman, Martha'Cohen, Helen Stulen, Mary Jahn, Doris Dietrich, Helen McCrea,. Jeanette Paul; Senlon class, Jane Tlernan, chairman, Mary Lord, Louise Neiiner, Anna M. ' Roach, Betty Mackey, Dorothy Scheckhaus, Belly Kenney; College ot Engineering, Seniors: George Rial,Maurice Leven, John, Keller, 'Hubert Kissel, Herman Wohleen, Tiifik;MbfTlffonV Harry Cameron;
Leatbam, E. Clovis, Spenser Brit* tain, Charles Hoffman, Robert Croyle, Peter Wyckoff, Nelsoi Jones, Evans Cheesman, 'Walter
Sophomores: Robert Kitchtn, Robert Tnmmons, H. Rosenbloom, Richard Wetzig, Robert Patterson, George Paul, Arthur Freeland,
Sands. Thomas Hughs, Fred Bordt, William McGuire, Albert Knight, Paul Caldwell, James Kirkpatrick, Harvey Lennox, Joseph Williams, Charles Bland ford, James Kerr. Kenneth VanDyck, William Irwin, Janes Pendelton. Junior class:- George Jonic, LoutsJohnetpn,..Tony Prendes, William .. Work, . James layton, Jack . Gardner, WHHani Cloas, Morris Roth, Donald Noord, Jack ciiallinor, Kelth.McCutcheon, Jjmes Rogeraon, Edwin Milligan, william Lord, John Weinberg, Jo- ph Weltz, Loaie Jagnow. Collide of Fine Arts: Thomas Koehler >nd Wilfred Slocom, chairmen. Jenmen TCuhns, Olivia- Horaor. Anne Farbotnik, EllenRoss, Estelle Wilson.
Painting Lectures 
Open to Public
^?le International Exhibition of mtngs ]ast evening at 8:15 lock, in the Carnegie. Music hall. 6 series wilt-end- November 18. iJKe lectures are free to the pub*
On October 2>' the speaker will 
.i. pyal Corvisaoz, art critic of 'k Herld-Trlbun; on Dorothy Adlo1*'emb<.
critic of Boeton; and on Novem- jjf U, Dudley Crafts Watson, of je Art Institute of Chicago. Ralph 
i>M arson, well-known author and F critic of New York city,'will p^Uide tue series. .-
addition to theae Monday eyen^ ^ciufear there win 'be a "series . wee Sunday afternoon, talks public. The first ofdj] 011 fWrthat* n* 9-lft
Sfephar
i public--schools; the peiii.' 'Ovember 3, by: Alfred: w.Director of the Milwaukee ^Institute; and the thlrd. on Noio^nV.u0, by Dd.ley Crafts. .Wat* ...;the Art .Institute of Chicago:,
Now on Sale For Nixon Attraction
Kewtrationg maybemade for 
rates fov.-Midsum-D,s Dream,-;;to be, shown.ltd, u }m .vreek ot October i|iL . ,ll( Y office or, at-the offic, fcg-Kenyon in the Arts Build*.
Plebes Elect 
Officers in All 
GollegesT oday
Plurality System .Used 
In Making Selection 
Of New Officers
M. M. C. C. TO HOLD 
SPECIAL ELECTION
Military Staff 
Selects. New 
Commanders
Jack McKee Appointed 
Regimental Leader; 
100 Promoted .
" By recent order of the military 
staff, Colonel Jack E. McKee 
appointed regimental commander 
and Major Howard Means, regi
mental adjutant of the R. O. T. C. One hundred upperclassmen . were promoted to -the rank of student officers.
The student officers were selected by the military department on the basis, ot their past performances Jn:the classroom, -on the drill field,'and ai' cinpT' *'::  r
No appointment has yet been made of first lieutenants- They,willbe <shortly from the pres-erit second'lieutenants. In the dame manner higher sergeants will be chosen from t'ni group of Junloi who are new duly sergeants.
Tho regiment has been dividedInto two l>nrldrilling at
lupervlse the operations of tbe student officers. Under this plan all Juniors and senjors.wlll receive special instruction on alternating
Intervening weeks,
An innovation this year has been the appointment of the regimental adjutant to the rank of major, instead of to captain as in previous
 in addition to the regimental officers, other major appointments
Captain Evans W-. Cheesi second battalion commander. Major Francis Eugene Abrlno, 36; adjutant, Captain Samuel Weatermaa, 36. The commander of  company A is Captain Richard W. Dennison, *36; company B, Captain Owen Clark Coho, 36; company C, Captain Maurice L. Leven, 36; company D, Captain Harold J. Mitch* ener. *36; company Ej Captain llarvy F. Shannon, 36; and company F. Captain John J. Keileh, 36.
Dept, of Metallurgy 
Revises Courses
culum of metallurgical engineering affecting both tho junior and senior years_ ____>n announced by the newlyappointed head of the Department ot Metalurgy, Dr. R. B. Mehl. Dr. Melil will still retain his position of the Metals Research 
laboratory.In modern metallurgical 
practice will be given by prominent 2ssful metallurgical en*: the Pittsburgh district. has been added for the. purpose of reviewing recent developments and.. caUtly^ting.the ability, ot the students to speak in public.
The course in mechanical tech
nology, which is entirely include, a
w, will
eatment of the physical mechanical properties of 
metals, and also of the processes by which they are rolled or formed. 
The graduate work of the dpartent will continu along the same i.aes as in other years. There are at present eight graduate students nttalurgj* .iiieludig  caa. Car*- 
iiegle graduate.introductory sophomore ha9 ..been retained with 
minor changes.
ART SOPHS MEET
There will I.... __ _ meeting of theSopliomore. Class of the College ot Fine Arts on Friday, October 25 12:30'jn the Little Theater. All 
Sophomores. are urged attend.
Must Choose Senior Senate 
Representative to Fill. 
Present Vacancy
will be a special, election in Margaret Morrison to select  senate representative for tire-senior clai
Elections committee of .Student council.In all three colleges, the members of the freshmen classes will elect a president, a secretary, and treasurer. In addition, Margaret
president.
The officers will be elected by the plurality syslem of voting. Each freshman will vole for one candidate for each office and the person receiving the highest number of votes will be declared elected. The election will be conducted according to the rules for elections ee published in the Student Handbook.- The balloting In Margaret Morrison. will take place in the main hall, and in the College of Fine Arts, in the foyer. The College of Engineering polls will be set hear the registrar's office at main entrance lion building. The ballots will start in the Christian association-office at 1:30, as soon as the election is.over. Anyone: Interested may watch the tabulations. The. results -will.be.announced immediately upon comple:
TagDayCa tnpaign Nets Large Returns
Womens Guild completed, its. Tag Day campaign wltli contributions totalling $92.- 42. Of- this amount, -$56.31' was collected last Monday; while ?3,G.ll was contributed, on Tuesday. The results of the campaign surpassed by far the colleotlons ' of preBeatrice Archer, 37, president of the Guild, attributes- the success .of this years, npaign to: the generosity:
lunching at Carnegie,: did noi hesitate to buy' tags.
Council Votes 
Activity Bldg. 
Grant of $200
Funds for The Erection 
Of New Structure 
Total $18,000
Plebe Nominees
PRESIDENT. FRESHMAN CLASS:COLLEGE (DENT. FRE Albltz. L. E. RN3EGCI Pearl.SECRETARY. FRESHMAN CLASS: E nor Boyd. Clararell McKlbben. J
TREASURER. FRESHMAN CLASS: 1 .......... Wiliam HaiJnr.
_________J ENGINEERINGPRESIDENT. FRESHMAN CLASS: I
SECRETARY, FRESHMAN CLASS:
TREASURER, FRESHMAN CLASS: R.
rard, McCarthy.MARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE COLLEGEPRESIDENT. FRESHMAN CLASS: Ela ir Briaht, Patricia Dnoler. Miriam J remfel&tlol; Nancy McKenna, .tyartqirei 
SECRETARY. FRESHMAN CLASS:' Wari Snyder, Betty
MAKGABBT MORKl?OK' CAICNttGIfi' COLLEGE. -SENIOR SENATE REPRESENTATIVE i Clan Hall, Betty McGregor.Although
All Colleges 
Meet at 11:30
Community Fund Drive 
Made in Assemblies
Assemblies will be held today at ,:30 in all colleges to promote the Community fund drive at CarEngineering students will meet Engineering hall, room 218. Mr. W. McGowan, a director of the Catholic Boy .Welfare bureau, will speak for. a few minutes on th Community fund. Dean Ihrig will Ihen address the freshmen con- ifng' veiort&-*aud- -other routine matters. Addison L. Gilmore.ident .of Student council, and Robert P. Greiner, president of the ............ :. the.
will be- jit charge.
Dr. Watkins will speak to the group lutes on the Com; ;Mr,s Helen TysoiV of the" Community Fund Speakers will also.- , speak on the same subject. Margaret Schultz, preslden^of the Margaret.Morrfson
Student council voted $200' ward a etuderil activities' building last- Tuesday. ' -The money w token from the councils Burpl of $1400 and, turned over to .t endowment fund, with the-pro oion that when the fund matures the money will, be used for ai Uvlties. building. According.to.the'
The total amount donated: to the 1946 Endowment Fund earmarked for an Activities Building Ca rnegi sgomutm yStudent council and ..the' student! body in general have long felt'the need of an activities buildings Several solutions to the problem have been offered, the firsts of which was, the Brown House. The Brown Housei had several serious drawbacks;,Its location, and .archi- teitural  features.
building with some 1 success, but fcven - then It .was. realized ..that. the Brown House; at best, 'coiild. only be-a temporary, activities building.Last year Henry D. Jandl, a gradhate architect, chose as. the subject for his thesis, A Student Activities Building- for Carnegie." The'building,as planned by.;Jandl would be located| on the cut, and would contain, a large auditorium, lounges, offices, a cafeteria, a broadcasting studio, and activities
Each year a sum of money has been set- aside.Sy liotli day and night councils with' the Jntontion that it shall be rused In an-activities building. The balance at present is near $18,000.
Dean of Women 
Meets Advisers
Mary Watson-. Green, dean of women, will attend ' the -annual meeting of the State Association of - Deans and .'Advisers of Girls which will be held in-jthe Penn- Harris. Hotel, Harrisburg, on November 1 and 2.
itean. Green' is ' presiding chairman of the hostess' committee .of the institute and'will give a brief address to welcome the new deans to the convention.Chairman of the institute 19 Dean Thyrea W. Amos of the University of  Pittsburgh.'Last * Friday Dean Greeri waB present at the meeting of the Western Pennsylvania Association of Deans and Advisers which was held lit the College Club. The rienker - at this meeting was Dr. . W. Hutson of the University of
Shakespearian 
Classic Opens 
Drama Season
B. Iden Payne Directs 
: Antony; Scheduled 
. For October 29
KENNE DY,ROWLES, 
BAUER ARE LEADS
Tickets May Be Obtained 
..At Registrars Office 
.; During This Week
Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopalra" will open the Little Theater 
^season next '^uesday evening. The 
'production Is under the direction of
:Ided Payne, head of the Stratford-on-Avon Memorial theater in 
[England. John Kennedy '36, will 
.have the part of Antony, the stern 
.soldier of Rome, while Pollv Rowles ,3G, nr.d -Kathryn Bauer .3$, will alternate in the role of. the oriental beauty CleoAntony andCleopatra, the second
>as written in 1607. In It, Mark 'ntony, Octavthe entire world. While Antony 1: in Egypt with Cleopatra, trouble arises in Rome; Pompey revolts, and Caesar becomes enraged because of Antony's indolence. Shamed by these acts, and besause of the death of hie wife, Fulvla, Antony returns to Rome. There -he marries Caesar's sister, -Oclavla, ;in an attempt to conciliate Caesar. 'Although . this mdrrlago is meant ?to bring these rulers together, It :is finally the cause of th'eit com* plete separation. ' From the com* ^-plications - of this bond,' rise' the
ttra features. VLost ' year f- AS liyfthe past. the production ,1s Bn1ra''.-^hs;-^-:-M)eparriirentrof^op:b0*pHeBetea'-Yn'-the'8aTne-;inan-;and dress .which Shakespeareused In the original production. Many costumes which have beeri designed especially for this show will be used, in' addition* to - those ilready In the department collection.  . '
Ira.0 and Charmlan, handmaids Cleopatra, by . Jane Francy, Silvia Lipka,' Thelma Newhouse, Mary Cheffey, and Roberta Wicks; Eros
Lloyd,. Joseph .Batcheller, and Thomris Koehler. Other members of the: cast Include Millon Gold- bloom, Carl Dozer, Malcolm Milligan, and. William Davis. j
Scimitars Hold 
Next Tea Dance
SclmltAr,. mens sophomore hon
orary, will sponsor. Its first -tea 
dance ot the year this Thursday 
Thistle Hall from 4 to. 6 o!clock. 
The music for the dance will b^ 
irnlflhedbv Jimmie Bray and-hi# 
nine-piece-orchestra. This will be 
;Mr. -Brays first appearance on the 
Carnegie campus, although., his 
music Is popular wltli' dancers at 
the University .of Plttatmfgli, Penasylvania College for: Women, and 
Penn State. -
Mark'Miller, social .chairman, 
assisted by the other members of 
itar, has planned an enter
tainment to be given by the freshRcfreshmcnta will- be served. ic registrar's office today or tomorrow. '
Council Approves Plan 
For Vacation Change
Art Sororities 
Begin Rushing 
This F rid ay
Events Will Last Ten 
Day6; Entertainment 
Plans Complete
Sorority ruBbing season of the 
College of Fine Arts will be formal* 
iy. opened this Friday, The five 
recognized local sororities of the 
college. Alpha Kappa Pei, Beta PI 
Beta Tau Lambda, Gamma,Gamma 
Gamma, and Phi Delta Mu,' will 
participate in the rushing events. 
The rushing season will last ap.
The ororltles will then write bids to the girls they desire to pledge. Further Information concornlng rushing rules may be found In the
Friday, and the Beta Tau Lambda danco  will follow on ' Saturday. The Gumma Gamma Gnmma formal will take place on November lt and the Alpha Kappa Pal and Phi Delta Mu formula on the following evening. ' Each sorority will also hold a buffet supper on the ihg of November 3.
Maude Bowers, '36, n Gamma Gamma .Gctmma, an<} president Intereorority council has, with the, aid of the lntersororlty rushing committee, made some slight ' revisions In the rushing regulations! The most Important new ruling is that sorority girls are not permitted to bave'.luncheon Vflth the fresh- men; until:  October -25,V at which. ;tlm^--6fficial:flisKlBfebeg^ members of.tfie lntersororlty.rushing :. committee  are:  Catherine Wiegle, 87, Beta Tau Lambda; Francis Wright, '36, Beta PI; and Norine Hoburg, -I37, Alpha .Kappa
f.
Holidays Would Extend 
From Dec. 21 to Jan.
Campus-wide Survey of Student Opinion Shows 
That Rearrangement Would Be Approved; < 
Executive Board Will Act Tomorrow
Psl.
Dorm Men 
Dance Friday
Thistle Hall to Be Scene 
of Annual Function
After Studying in England, Carnegie 
Student Compares Drama Schools
By Margery Tay.loi
i the
studied, in England last summer, scholarship awarded by the Drama
Carnegie student, majoring Jn Play Production, an opportunityto comThe school traveled-as it studied. London, Stratford-on-Avon, 'Mal- . and Oxford served; aB laboratories'wheTe 'the English theater observed:/- Experience In. pro-.
by other.'Amerlcan'studehts from Bryn MawTv Smith, an<j'Vassar.Cultural .tours of' famous-^English:.cities,! 'garden ' parties,-, arid teas, were interspersed among the school. activities.' r A tea. given; 'at' ihe chstie of Lord Lyttoni'the faStratford-on-Avon. At one of the garden parties where Victorian skits Were being produced, FdCDa vughes met George Bernard Shaw.
irming and looked hate
. Shaws plays ' festival form, all lUtitryside.'
ed by. Miss Hughes to watch: .British pfoducUon meLhods. "The Eng
lish; theatei still slipe up on representing American : types,- .she.- remarked. "One' of the'* plays' characterized a' Negro .waiter' in a' Fifth ^yena38:ApAr(B:aiitviuJtiv>oriyih9: appearpd with a' broad English , a6* cent - v arid " sophisticated mariner*
^Iri ,. London, the theater capltol bt 'England. Miss Haghes found jhat'the trend -for. reallBtlc-playsof the ^Tobacco. Road", .type, is -alive; iusti ae in New- York:at present. ^Lov:on the Dole;-1: a realistic play 'conceming English' unemployment Relief, was 'one of the most popular \pl ay s. i n the. city.'
linue until 
Baron Elliot and his orchestra hbve'been secured to furnish muBic for the affair, according to Roben Horvath; chairman . .of-<the danco coinTnltl.ee. Eillbt"'ha''' played ^tor several. functions at school In the paAt arid is well'knowu by the stu* This time the band brings, added attraction, Little Jackie - Hellers little sister, who serves aB'a vocalist.
The-;committee--last -t^ight-would veal thelr plaDn for the decthe form of hats and balloons will be distributed during the evening.
Mr. Horvath, v^hen aslted ft he was sure the orchestra..would ap- pear on the scene tho niglit of the dance, said that he was dealing with BUI 'Foley of the Orchestra Service. Bufeau and had every rea* ' i to'belleve that Foley-would de*
and Mrs. Charles Leberknlght,' Dr. and Mrs. John . .S. Neely, Captain and Mrs. R. Whitaker, Dean Mary W. Green, Dean and Mrs. A. W. Tarbell, Miss Elizabeth Helm and Dr. and Mrs. Webster N. Jones. Serving on the committee .with Mr. Horvath are: Day Kellner, MaryMartha Ketchum, llolUn Hill, Gene Whltacre, and Steve Scherbft.For., the' dormmen admission will be .their.A.. A. ticket.card and Those living outside'111 be charged <; dola
. A. A. Plans Hay 
Ride Friday Evening
A hy- ride,-; sponsored - by./ the
melr road n^fT5*astwpbdi "PooiTVt 
From there, .f)tly-6f.;the.-.group. 'will go on. the hay. ride while .'the others will stay and dance in1-, the
arid- refreshments will be' served.'  Marjorie  Green '36;* and Betty; Kenney ;'36,'^arevlin charge of arrangements.^
R.O.T.C. Men 
PickHonorary 
Cadet Officers
Nine Senior Women 
To Be Chosen From 
24 Nominees
Student Council last- Tuestlny threw its weight behind Ibo, movement to have the .Christmas holiday dotes changed to De-, ceinber 21 to January 6 hujlusive. ...The motion for. the chnnge was formally posseO. at the regular meetinir after Georgo Kitt- redge '3G, chairman of the speoial committee made Bif rpportL In giving his report Mr. Kittredgc wvid,  After rtn inttjrview!------------------------:-------;------- with Deim Tarbell and Qean'lhrf?.'
I find the. following roaeona fpr tUb. 
Christmas recess being as .it [i.i 
(1) II tho vacation begins it weeti. 
LetoVe Chiistmns day this aCB;:FSDm . 
men a chance to get'jobs ,1h depart
ment stores, post oftlcos, rullrondd., 
etc. (2) It one extra day were 
given this would mean that a gi'Qa* . 
number would out until the .fol-. ' 
lowing Monday. 
"The giVat masB of BtudentH 
want the vacation ohangod for, the, 
following roasone: (1) So th^t
they will not havo to b'o:'ori,- .thp 
way back to sohool op Now Year'e-.; 
flay. (2) So that It will not break; 
iiilo two. school sv'oeks work.:
VI move that Student Council' jjb . 
on rocofd os being in. favor, ot W ginning Chrietmas recesa on Siitr ' urday, December 21, arid ending^' the rocess on Monday, January ^.fir- 1036, and thnt .thls be called to. the; - attention ot Dean lhrlg, who^la iih:.  charge of making up ; tlie ' flelvbtti: calondnr; ' : ;   -.V
According to Dean lhrlg, action!;! will be,. taken by. the' &xebutXve ''; board on Sludant. council's..recoiin^J mendation at its meeting , tompf-"' row. The Board at this,time will deoide whether or not the vaoutioiri dates will he;changbd tlils'^&r^. 
.Student .council's actionV.wrtti.i. taken, after ;the ^Men'sz.Dpririltory;!
the"xharige;'  According1 '
Nine honorary Cadet Ofdcers 
be elected Thursday by tho ad
vanced students In R, O. T. C, 
the last meeting of Scabbard and 
Blade twenty-tour members of the 
senior classes of Margaret Morrison college and the College of Fine Arts were nominated as-cnndldates for the Honorary Odlcershlps. The first .nine In Thursdays voting will
.ary Cadet Colonel. The next -twi highest In the voting will be made Honorary' Cadot Majors, and tho next six highest will reoelve Hon-: orary Cadet Captaincies.
 The Honorary Csjdet Officers will be presented with . their con.'ro ^Honorary CadeF  Colonel, , along with Cadet Colonel Jack B. McKee.' will go the honor ot leading the grand march at the Military Bali. - 
Receiving nominations as Honorary . Cadet-. Officers ...were: -Mary, Lord, Betty Lehr,1' Dorotba Bateman, Louise Henderson, Alice Phil-, pott, Margaret Shultz, Marv Wet- tach, Polly* Rowles, Maud. Bowers; Nancy Chancellor,. Mary. Lou Meh* ler, Louise Melxner, Margaret Mc- Keon^ Elizabeth West, Antoinette Nugent, Emily Bumgarner. Clara Hall,' Henrietta DeHaven; Jane Francy, 'Evelyn Lelghou. Eleanor DeMuth, Cathleen Holden. Rae Jones, and Marjorie Green.
Art Appreciation 
Needed-Kenyon
v Joy In the theater, the ability to grasp-details and apply them to understanding ot 'the play these, are lhe. thlngs I hope to con- vey-'at the cultural meetings - of Theta Tau/' -announced Professor Elmer Kdnyon^ head of the Depart-S
t of Drama,. Professor Kenyon that his idea1 of the-lowest' form Of humanity: was the :pool room loafer who liad no cultural Intereatfl. I. do. not...mean..-that, the engineering students Deiong io this stratum of humanity, but because of their concentrated studies they are neglecllng to broaden their .Interests.
Mr. Kenyon believes that since the people of Pittsburgh - do not give the.' theater ample; attention,
drama in' Pittsburgh;- the playf the thing, is not . the attitude here, asi it was in former times. Through his address, which Pro^ feasor Kenyon will give in the
he will renew Interest in the oldest and finest of the. arts, drama. These meetings, sponsored by Theta Xau are open to all stu- i interested in attend*
Chess Team Wins 
From Engineers
trnegle . ..Tech's ' chess team led.its season this year on Saturday, October 12, with a 3^-1%
Club .:' of ' WeBtetri Pennsylvania!. correspondence ,; games. - with Harvard are now in progress.
Chess men will probably , match their wit with Army. Pitt, and city
a league, among city chesi s.' ' The-teamj has' a present record- of seven  consecutive vie- torles and three losses.The' Tartan team .was' organized last year by- Walter Reid -.'38. Membefs bt the tiii ar ' CaptVn' Reid/'.Fied'.' MosteH.er. *38^. Arthyr Stern - '38, John-Cachera 38, ari nan. -.Shorr ;38... Bl*weekly meets are:bing planned.
Roland Hill president of IheUor- mitor council, the plan was. ~upon obtaining Student coundVe permission: to circulate the: petitions throughout:- the- - school - and,./ then present- them to the proper authorl>. ties ' Student council, however, eliminated the necessity for-this-'- by taking the matter into Its own hands Bald Mi HU1 
Brief Interviews with students last, week revealed thQt. many were In favor of the . change. Henry
Hftf
11li
1
Larsen, -36-The proposed change i fv!would be much. more . convenl*-i)(. __for me I won t have to travel1' -i ' INew Years day. J. W. Overend87Swell V Idea.
December. 18 and ..end January The proposed change would m^an a vacation of sixteen instead oi : fourteen days, .. The --two 'extrA'* du>b however would be inetudcd i in the weekend of January 4 6 and would necessitate no change In tho ' imber of school days In the yeav;
Student Directory; 
Out November 10;
11
n
ifc 1936-36 Student Dlrcciory ' i ' *: .be on sale by the first week in.- . [i aV-'JI'Md November, Bettle Collins,, womens r. - .
1200. copies are.'belng printed this-^'V i; year, and will be sold both at .thfty;;!:^Christian association office 'and students in the (iirtereiit' collegyis^^;
Students find the directory ..a'i .' i valuable source of informationvin^;^-'" locating people t on campus. '..Tlxe '':7-1:; directory gives 'the home addr^sar -:/ 'i school address, telephone:-ri.iimb.c'^'^-\rv: department, and the year of ;eyeryf'? ;.'^ i registered at Carnegie' TepK,-'..s-:
hoiiBes .oil campus; arid . the .hohoi^ societies, sororities,- and fraternk.c aionii witri nilhT oi ifi^ir mtut- Besldes the Student Direc-v/ Trl-Pub.Ucattons  edits tli6-^ Plebe Bible R.nd-Song ;BoQk.;
Prof. Hitchens Placed va - 
On Art Commiv^ioa
Professor W- F. HIt^cheris.' bead^ of the-Department of'Architecture^ has been appointed to the.^tate Art:;-;, 
commipsibh. 7: He^y.was^icip.ieh^i^gi Gbvernor Earle to be.one of tbe'si^j on thecommission.'.; .These:;w... pass judgment-'-on /fell ^publie.'n , works,, such as buIldingSr brldgea,^,^ mentB and parks, , in . fell ,/but,''^ the  first or second v clasV eitlefl^i'' .......ings -in- HarrlaburpScthey also.v^pt prove or reject designs .that.-.h'' been submitted to them by varlarchitects.. -'V;:!:;1- :r
________J_______ ____B

---------------------------------------------------

invN AngelPortland
PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR:j EXCHANGES: Rosemary B.----------------------------CIRCULATION MANAGES: A. L. <------ 
>'' CTAFT^imlTOi^a FkGvlffmi$;! ' ' Jt^rtOR EDITORS: fUchtfd Byrne. Tobjr Cxoaa, Loir  j Adelald Rcmlntoh, Katherine Sehrelbles. Albert Sea';: I . John Shetvr. Joacpfe Thomas.
A TributeC
ARNEGIE'S football season Is distinguished by 
___two factorstbe clean, hard playing of Its foot
ball men and the Invigorating, picturesque drills anu 
music of tbe Kiltie band. ^
Three cheerleaders see tbat the team gets its 
share of vocai tribute from the stands each Satur
day, but tbe bands reward Je not "so noisy. Their 
only thanks come In tbe knowledge tbat thousands 
: of feet are stamping in time to .their drums rolling 
beat; and. thousands of voices'are swelling their 
chorus ot college songs.
The Notre Dame-Tech game 1s a thing of the past, 
..fciit one memory will live In our minds long after 
we hove fotgotten who made the first touchdown or 
who made that thrilling run around right end. That 
memory is well expressed in the following letter re* cetyed from an Elmira, N. Y./man . who saw that 
game The letter was addreeseilto the president of
'.the Carnegie Institute of Technology and reads:
Ittjr dear sir:
. ' On October fifth it wae my pleasure to be one of
 a Ijnrty of four from Elmira to attend tbe Notre 
amfr-Carnegle Tech football game.
..  I am fraiik to say I wanted tp see Notre Dame 
VWin and I had the pleasure of seeing them do so, 
after a hard-fought game, but its something else 
tiiat prompts me to write this letter. Between the 
halves, Carnegie Tech paid a tribute to Knute 
Hoohne which I hope always to remember. About 
Jfdrty thousand people stood bowed in deep memory 
Vand respect to that wonderful man. It was very 
/impresBlve, with Carnegie's KUtle band playing beau* 
.tifni'soft.music and the picture of Mr. Rockne as7 cending to the high heaven.
<.'lt was a tribute to Mr. Rockne and Notre Dame 
college that . Carnegie' Tech can well be proud of. 
X wlll always remember it.
. 4   Most sincerely,
T. A. MALONE.
No flner tribute could be paid a college organize* 
-tion. The feeling expressed in this letter came 
straight from the heart and can be laid, at the feet 
ot;'Justly famous Kiltie band. The favoring, 
breezes . which kept that portrait of Knute Rockne 
tufned always toward the stands/should blow warm* 
to.hia bfiya):.&nd.the. 
,:'meinbers: of the Kiltie, band'. 'It la BUch gestufes ae 
;this'which bring <:redit to an institution and nhows 
. ttot .the term/'institution of higher learning is not 
. &,misnomer.
Vacation ChangeI
N..ANT democracy the will of the few must yield 
^ lo . the desires, of the many. From all appear.v^ancee,-. the expected change in our Christmas vacar 
tion period will follow, this, democratic principle.
,Ii the'ExecuUye board sustains Student councils, 
li'iecbmmfendatlbn, a' small minority of the student 
v'body -will be financially affected. This group is 
' composed of students who work'during the holiday.
Extending school until Friday Instead of ending on 
^.Wednesday as now scheduled, will be a handicap to 
.their..opportunities' for jvork.
. ';''^7nder the present schedule such students could, 
get in at least a weeks work before''Christmas by 
getting excused for the three days preceding vaca-'
. tioik.' It-the schedule is changed as suggested, these, 
"students-would have.to. miss an entire; week of 
. "school'.'-. Department stores offer'work only to those 
..VhSrian work :the .week before-.Chrlstmas. If the 
: new .schedule Is approved such'students have a hard 
cfrpice to maite;  Thfey caniiea^needed..money only 
: !ati.the.expense. of a setback inVachool work.
oilier "Bide-ot 'tha picture ia  mure- may;- - Two 
; v^53ed days' will give 'ut-of-town- students, a chance 
fo.get acquainted at honie again. The longer period 
do. away with ihe necessity of rushing away 
;i:tram.a New. Years dinner table to start the trip 
;toV'BCho61. , .
lea question of a financial loss for a few yield* 
CTing to the social gain of the many.
Hey, Copper ,S
' aTURDAY at the football .game there was a sudv 
Sden.:Upheavel of. student ranks and tbe well. tobiwn'and always stirring cry .of Fight! Fight!" 
'Amidst craning necks and swirling figures there op/.''xi^ared' a policeman leading'a culprit -by the arm. 
'As-' he. went along tbe passage-way he was greeted 
.v^ith Heyj' Copper! and an accompaniment of de
volve-gest^^^
;-;;^The undergraduate resents any demonstration of 
Authority or force! He feels that he has holy rights 
:'ofv'individuality, and rightly so, within certain 
^b^uhdsi But he is likely to forget tbat policemen! 
?i-er^\'^vitai .factdr.^in preserving his sacred.individmany-.times he regards the "cop1 as a 
*r*fe^tfbrahy,:actY6K^
'.otfei-semester of political science he regards nil pub''?-Uc':'setvahte as igrafters who.receive bribes on all
'vVv^^Any:guardlan-cif law and order has a disagreeable 
tjolrtfrom the very beginning. Most policemen are. 
..Jidtrestly Sincere in their charge as pubhc-protectors. 
i.&^hey;.'deserve tbe-support of all Intelligent, persons 
at^d'as- such.' surely will be. supported by students ot 
'^timiegie'Tech.  /,
AMERICAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
Although several: colleges had either been 
founded for the purpose of, or offered courses 
in -technical .training before, the first technical 
school to operafe successfully was organized In 
1824 in Troy, New York, under the paternal 
care and. pecuniary assistance of Stephen van 
Rensselaer, wealthy and fatherly patron of some 
nine hundred farms-comprising the vast estate, 
Rensselaerwyck. 6a seems only fitting, the In
stitute was eventually named Rensselaer Folytechnic Institute In honor of its pstron.
The institute came into prominence under 
Its first and third directors, Amos Eaton and 
Franklin Green, to whose far-sightedness we 
owe the modernized curricula of the technical 
school, especially tbe fairly recent. practice of 
placing the emphasis of experimental laboratory 
.atid-field :w.or.k.'.. - Greet,by his "reorganization 
and. modernization of tbe courses in 1649, laid 
the foundation' of engineering school curricula 
which is in common use. The unbelievable bit
terness with which Eatons, plan of having tbe 
students teach themselves hy experimentation 
was attacked by tbe old school of textbookinstructors seems - incredible today when the laboratory and field method Is so generally acThat Eaton triumphed, and that today his methods are so widespread is a brilliant vindication. Unfortunately, be lived only long enough to see tbe beginning. He bad planned a two-part. educational, program of which only Part I, or the make-educntion scheme, w.as carried out.' The ladles were meant to be neglected by - Eaton, who apparently thought that they should be given a chance at the sciences, though necessarily those of'a more'domestic nature, and the prospectus of tbe institute included plans for women students. This scheme, however, was unsuccessful, probably because the expense - of a complimentary establishment to tbe men's college was & limit beyond which van Rensellaer refused to be a good fairy. For the first ten years of the school's history, only B. A. and M. A. degrees were given, but In 1835, a small but famous group of four men received the first C. E. degrees gJven in any English-speaking country," and engineering schools were off to a weak but momentous start.
The enormous number of R. P. I. graduates who secured responsible government positions along geographical, geodlstlc. meterorological lines soon showed the advantages of technical education as a means of not only bettering ones mind, but also of improving ones financial status. All in all, the- cumulative weight of evidence showed more and more the pressing need for more institutions of specialization in technical training. In many cases, these Institutions were and are state-maintained, such as the auxiliary colleges of engineering at the state universities of Michigan and Illinois. .^Building upon R. I. P.'s experimental trend, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Was the pioneer school of tbe nation to offer lab instruction in physics, mechanics, and mining.
As the technical school became more -and more firmly entrenched, a new trend began to manifest itselfthe move toward the graduate
Einstein as a professor has served to bring it even more before the public, eye.
Another very, important , phase of science that;
private enterprises or the laboratories of large  companies, Is that of'pure research as, opposed to applied scientific work. Oftentimes, the dlsthe tungsten filament and the argon-Alled light bulb In place f'the old time vacuum, have.-revo- lutlonized the electric light bulb lndusti-y. -
Private endeavor was, of course, the! mainstay of research until recent, years,- and the achievements of Galileo,'Torricelli, Davy Newton, Lahlstoix but the universities where such labor shauld-fip.urish,'.were for awhile, coming back wltli such' men as Millikan'of California Tech,..' Compton and the late Millikan of the University of Chicago, Lawrence of Yale, and the late Richards of Harvard, and of course, our own Beri and Stern at Carnegie Tech, at the helm. The technical schools are at last cominginto their own' and! proving'worthy rivals of individual effort: as. exemplified/by Edison and Jeans, or the large., corporations such as DuPont, General Electric, and Westinghouse.
- The night school is also an intere'sting development. Created to reach a group who either had .n opportunity to attend in the.daytime, or who. happened hot to be able to afford, full daytime tuition at the time,.it-has enabled thousands, t*. educate' themselves to a'degree whichIt would have been impossible for them to attain..Carnegie Tech does not have to take off its hat" to 1 any' other school when It 'cornea to  achievement. v-Th ' three-- top-riwxklng'. colleges .. of the nation for scholastic standing are Rens- selaerwych Polytechnic, Massachusetts^ Institute of Technology, and Carnegie Institute, of Technology.' When one glys'-'due consideration to the fact that. R. I. P. has been founded over one hundred years and M.. 1. - T. is over seventy' years old, the fact is self-evident, that for a college founded less than thirty years ago to ' have climbed into that hallowed grouped, Carnegie Tech has ; accomplished an unparalleled achievem.ent.:- ln that-short space of time, Carnegie has built'for itself anation-wlde reputation. It is one of the youngest technical schools, but it is already one of. the most famous.JOHN EDMUND HERZOG.
Letters to the Editor
V ENROLLMENTS INCREASED ALL OVER.! 
COUNTRY -
^^iew.York.Reports from.colleges throughout thj 
rUttCy- indicate, an lncrease.-in. enrollments .averpg-' 
 If-5imnsf-S'=psr -cent^^rMsYiJstJre-is-Ijasiii ra 
. _Jb^aL'fcdYaiic6'flgureB-which Indicate; tbat.there will. 
I^^mpre>than'ii2Q:000 v .additional under graduates
Id iflte to know why Carnegie Tech is so R. 0. T. C. conscious on the Cut. but yet misses an opportunity for a real display of its R. 0. T. C. unit In the forthcoming Pittsburgh Armistice. Day Parade.; 1 This parade' Is. one of the largcat ln-the nation and will feature the R. O. T. C. unit of the University of 
lRIWsbuLsh.^3..-wftlJ..asJftC8j.xallpfi.bapds.....Tficbi-wiU;
HOW NOT TO BE A WALLFLOWERDear-Sir:.-. .. - .. A6 one stag, to another, I d like to/make the following suggestions, to'girls who attend Thistle Hall tea.dances. ' . . .'(1) . Don t crowd together at the entrance to the tail or ln lhe lounge just outsldeT-I'heres nothing so-:trlghtenmg to atane boy as trying to nonchalantly. wander, through:a compact group of strong girls
by the' windows-lemenJust-:s- -oich-:as-you -do;(3) -Demand one or two dances In'whlch-the girls In. That will gtv* the boye a chance to see how
i Laval
P
lERItB LAVAL, premier ot 
Fra nfce, found himself la a tight 
place because of bis efforts to retain the friendship of. both Great Britain and Italy 
and to keep, his gov* 
eroineot from being upset by. Its 
foes. at bome. In tbe process of. try. 
| Ing to find a way | to bring about a 
| peaceful settlement 
jirofTtSe- Italo-Etbl- oplao war, Lavai' 
proposed tbat Brit
ain withdraw' its 
big bome fleet from 
tbe Mediterranean to mollify Mus
solini. This suggestion was laid, be
fore the British cabinet and turned down flatly.The cabinet gave hearty approval 
to the policy at Geneva of Capt Anthony Eden and Samuel Hoare, 
secretary for foreign affairs. ;Its 
stand was reported to. be substantially this: Mussolini will respect, 
nothing but force.' He would In
terpret any withdrawal of'Brltnlns Mediterranean forces as a Blgn of 
weakening. If Mussolini wants to! 
clear the wuy for Italo-Etbloplan peace talks, let him halt bis armies 
In Ethiopia and accept league terms 
us b09ls for negotiation as.Ethiopia 
already has done.Furthermore, the BrRlsb govern
ment called on Laval for a definite 
reply to Its question whether France 
would co-operate with the British fleeter there were an open break 
with Italy.' The French answers to 
this query had been too wabbly to. suit X>ownlDg street. Particularly 
the English wanted to know If their 
fleet woutd be permitted to use the French naval 'dockyards. It was be
lieved that If Lnval could not satis
fy the British, the latter would withdraw from active leadership in the 
League of Nations and refuse to renew the Locarno commitments on 
which Frunce (relies for protection 
against Germany.
D
ISPATCHES"-from'.the African- war front are subjected to so' severe a censorship that they are 
not v only unsatisfactory by often quite unreliable. All kinds of sensrttlonal stories are circulated and 
some of them may --be true. One 
such Is the report from Djibouti, 
French Somnllland, that Italians killed a number of British Somali
land subjects, nenr the .Ethiopian frontier, some of the victims belnz 
members of the came) corps that Is 
a- parf/-of-the col.onial army-', .British: Vice Consul Lowe heard,'- aistj. 
that Italians had gnssed'and shots 
lot of cattle and goats In British Somaliland.
Certainly relations .between Italy 
and Great P.rStnln were growlnc 
wiyse. dally and there were .mnn.v predictions thnt the two nnrinns 
would toe at each others throats hp- fore lone. Thp. British- hnve hoor 
in a deadly cold Immor ever slnoithey found ont -that Mnssnllnr- friends had heen tryln to stir m 
an antl-Brftlsh revolt In Efiypt. Now Jhe border hotween Rpyptnnd ltBl'fln
E
THIOPIA'S representatives In 
Geneva were told by .delegates 
of several nations that Mussolini was ready to end the warfare If'he 
.were zlven considerable cessions of
Greek . Notes
General ; fixing and cleaning 
up siich . as- outside painting and 
lawn trlmming^went on at th Tau 
Delta' Phi house last week with a 
double purpose; On Sunday, the 
boys had a^ group picture taken of 
the eutire membership^ while- this 
Friday, their first big dance will, i the
emiiider of the last tea dance, "James, Dont Spare the Hor Three wagon loads rolled along the
There was a little trouble1 finding room to ^ relax but the boys car take it. . -Cider and doughnuts wer< sewed during the dacce following the ride.
The A.' T. O/s will start tin series ot Hallowe'en parlies with : l;/g dance Friday night, Octobe: 25. Its gonua have all the trim mins, decorations, . seasonal refreshments, (nuts to you), Will Clicks orchestra, and a group of guests from- the Penn State- Chapter of Alpha Tau Omega. The ar- -ra-nseatents&ie -bcIag-.-ta-k-eii. viac-a^-oi- by Social Chairman Crovle aud President Blackwood.
The Phi Kap. Beta Theta Pi. Beta igma Rho. and D. U. men turned . finelay. the - 20 th. pa Sigma:ha4 the.honor of tainlne Dean Green.. . Incidentally, they are redecorating and preparing to .inatall a new furnace soon.
Delia Tau Delta is having a tea Saturday.rOciober-2C. tfrahoiir fouv o clock- .-for. the Mothers.' Club- of the. House. It - might be a-good idea to invite them around;-during tbe rushing, period to look over t pledges and get acquainted.: '^ :
An. alumni , stag meeting Is 
th%^ll-/-fori-i-thiJ.-iJo,pesirt>ars;3st week end at the Kappa D^lta Rho houso. President DItzler..- is ; 4a charge. The S. -A.\E.-s>falt initiation i will also take- place ioa that
lerrlioiy and cvrbilu lurge economfc 
idv.-intiiges.-Thls tentative offer was transmitted tv Addis Ababa, and 
the reply of timperor Halle Selassie 
wus a determined MNo. The Italians wunt^ylriual control over the 
entire country, end the emperor Is not willing to give up a yard of
Tbe .Italians la northern Ethi
opia were Jubilant over tbe deser
tion of Deglac Halle Selassie Gugsa and several thousand -warrlore. 
..This: Gugsa, a sonJnJaw . of,,the, 
eiiiperor,' Is: a' descendbnt ofKlog^ 
John, who reigned In tbe last century. The traitor was rewarded by 
the Italians by being made ras or 
chief of the occupied territory In 
tbe. north.
Seemingly reliable reports from 
medical missionaries In the southern sector, tbe Ogaden zone, said the 
Italians were making free use. of 
chlorine gas and dum-dum bullets which for many years have been 
outlawed In all "civilized warfare.
I
T DOESNT take much these days to cause tbe Republicans to 
rejoice. The lutest event hailed by 
them as a harbinger of victory next year was merely a by-election In 
Massachusetts to fill a vacancy In 
the state senate. Tbe district nor
mally Is Republican and this time ns usual a Republican was elected. 
The reason for the G. O. P. shouts 
wss found In the decreased vote polled by the Democrats, and the 
fact that Salem, a mill town and 
former Demonrntic stronghold, was captured by the Republicans.Democratic leaders snlrl thnt the 
Issues In the election were purely 
local and' that tbe reverse at most 
was a rebuff for the administration of Democratic Goy. James Curley. 
The Republican leaders asserted that the New Deal no less than Curley was involved.
S
ENATOR CARTER GLASS oi 
Virginia has had his differences 
with the Roosevelt administration and Is likely to have others, but he 
remains a loyal Democrat He says he is "a constitutional < Democratwithin tbe Democratic .party and
"I would not support any movement to split the party. I refused 
to Join tbe Liberty league and have refused to join any organization 
whose alms run counter to the 
party.Mr. Gloss Is certain that-Presi
dent Roosevelt will be reDomlnated 
without serious opposition. There  BO.v^.rgjnl?.ed:ioppbsHlon. to .his 
^nomination !lp sight within the par
ity,". Glass says.
IDEAL WEATHER, THE MOON 
and a rural atmosphere made the 
Pi KA hayride last Saturday a big 
succ^s. Most of the farmers east 
of Pittsburgh, were .rudely awakened by tbe three hayricks of collitch boys n gals.
A CERTAIN YOUNG LASS has been confined to the infirmary for many days and what is worse for many nltesplease get belter so our basketball captaifi will be able to get bis mind on his work at practice.
FLASH BACK OR BACK flashes on the Dance Saturday nite ... . .. Fred .Kelly received a bal- iObn on  th'e'-ten yard."liite;.and. started up tho floor with the Blond Venus leauing Interference; On t~e twenty mark they met with Boots-Wettach but managed to pass that obstacle. Al Buhl chim- eu in with "Hold That Tiger and Carl M. Dozr fainted yet Kelly and -the Venus were still going btrong. The Venus left his feet and took out the cb&peron ' (Kent Shaffer) nice work . . Kelly continued up past the 50 were he stlit armed a would-be tackier. BUI Holliday, butthen Mnrgy Fitzgerald
by the di Cwen dance a couple of Carnegie cards took It upon themselveB to be clever and started to toss pennies to the entertainers ... a person with such e is classed along - half-wit and should be home where he would be more appreciated . . . for the benefit of those who Indulged: it might interest you to know that theres only one kind of animal- tbat throws , 
scent ...
IT SO HAPPENS that- Mulligan and Weinberg were born on the same day; consequently those two lads threw a testimonial dinner last week to celebrate the date of .their birth . . . they sent themselves flowers and cigars and made flery orations, each one lauding the
worthy deeds .of the otber; all in all It was a very amusing and entertaining affair ... the twine plus Coulter and Prendes
PROF- PATTERSON'S E. E. CLASS wee nigh knocked off Its feet (or, if you prefer, seat) when Don Blackwood sclntilated into class sporting a dazzling bright
For a Real Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
EAT AT
Marys Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
Near Forbes Street 
Try Our Special ,25c Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
V
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBEBFEDERL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
blue iutes before tbe multitude quieted down to a roar so the class could get started .... .
MR. CARROLL OF MAGGIE MURPH (who likes to be called prof) has been imbued with the
vate car of the Chicago Bears football team. Sisro he couldnt break Red Grange's poker game Our Jerry sat as near the great man as possible. But the Bear trainer
NINETEENTH CENTURY PAPER 
A copr of the first edition of n,a 
Philadelphia Public Ledger1 waB recently presented to the . School of journalism at Syracuse University The edition appeared on March 25 1836, and its weekly subscription rate ot six cents made it the first successful penny paper , in Phlla. delphla. By the end of eight months, the circulation list includ. ed 10,000. subscribers.
. PENNY'S WORTH OF 
KNOWLEDGEA University/ of .Nebraska student paid his tuition with twenty- three pounds of pennies, number* ing 3,600 in all. It took him seveo
chemical products.
DUPLICATE AWARDSEsther and Jane Carlyle, graduates of William Smith College, a
809 LIBERTY AVENUECOurt 230
Awarded First Prize by the National Board 
of Review as the Outstanding Foreign Impor
tation of the Year
The Blue Light
Personally Recommended by the Management 
as the Most Beautiful Film of the Year!
Now Playing
for two. 9-lour performances doily, starting
MONDAY 0cd er 28*h 8:S0 p-MMAX REINHARDT'S scvmb production of SHAKESPEARE'S
A MIDSUMMER 
NIGHTS; DREAM
. MwlebyMendeIiihn.Wi&moretbaaonetliouMalpUrem {
Q^Mrpn ^^heaire
Telephone Atlantic 219
SEND YOUR 
LAUNDRY HOME
TONE IN ON IME
926 Penn Avenue
We'll call for it, whisk it away 
iindbringTc feck* again: -RaSTTSF 
Express service is safe, swift 
and sure. Economical, too 
rates are lowand our send* 
mg-it-collect service is partic
ularly popular. -Prompt pick-up 
and delivery , service, in all important ca&es and towns.  For
service or information telepnoue 
Atlantic 3000
Depot Office: 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
Atlantic. 3600 Pittsburgh, Pa.
0TfclTh Sp'*SDD
AGENCY IN<5,
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

FOR the benefit op the plebes AND SOPHOMORES, we 
tit explain that ,a touchdown for Carnegio occurs when the fellows 
Zjtog theTartan "jerseys personally put the ball across that wide 
ttie line on the opposite end of ihe field from where the SkJbos usudilrplay. .We thought we.should explain thlB, as these lads (frosh and 
,*8) haven't seen a Plaid touchdown scored on the home .grounds 
 e Ltje Miami game of last year.
jtuia that four minute ieaa over wotroDaniB,ror Saiurday'eJasti minute 
Lfyst .Outside of these two Instances, there hasn't been a sensational 
1 spectacular paw, an exceptional block or a cleaq-cut, single* 
prided tackle all season that woirid warm the cockles of the caeh cueALL OP WHICH BRINGS TJS RIGHT BACK to the Temple game, 
b appropriate grimaces. If you bought a paper before the game, 
j coUid do the crossword puzzle to relieve the ennui. Outside of 
_jl there was little 
Us aBual swell sbov
tartan
SAU CE
yc
By Scotty Charles
50 FAR THIS YEAR, THE LOCAL FANS have yet to receive 
football thrill from the Carnegie brand or footballunless 
a th^t four minute'lead over Notro^Damt,ror SaiurdayeJasti
the program for tick-tack-toe to enliven the spectacle.
.VT. -TD. MINUTE SUBSTITUTION wss looked upon by many 
i combination of Jonah and Roy Riegals. Those with Introspection 
, view It as a fine piece of strategythe score being that much more 
ieelslvo against the Plaid will make our opponents over-confident and 
can win easily. See?
THE GAME WAS A SEE-SAW SORT OP DEBACLEflrst o: 
lam didnt complete a pass, then the other team didn't complete 
lany times out that the affair began to take > 
file aspect of a correspondence chess match. After' an exchange of 
loldfleld pleasantries for most of the first half, Smukler tossed a fortyraid pass that laid the leather on the twelve. After three unsuccessful 
tlempte at general ado, the Owls pulled a sucker play that left strong 
weeping as Renzo crossed the goal In off-to-Buffalo fashion.
CONCERNING JACK ARMSTRONG" SMUCKLER, we were dlfrjppolnled but not surprised. If that pigskin pusher Is an All-Amei 
n Marie of Rumania. Every time he got hold of the ball, he either 
down quietly behind the line of scrimmage or tossed It at some unjiBjjictlng teammate. Hla publicity is well-handled but his play Is
LOOKING AROUND THE STADIUM, we Were reminded nf the 
fourth night of a elx-day bike race. The etands were eo emptj that 
the Carnegie cheers were practically heart-to-heart talks with the team. 
Things were so had ..that even with Bert Munhall the place, looked
SPEAKING OF MUNHALL REMINDS US that rumor has It that 
Ihe Baron is considering resigning aa Tartan trainer. We are .very 
sorry to hear this as the Baron, besides being an ace trainer, puts on 
quite a front for our boye at the games. Who can ever forget the daz
zling picture of our Bert toping out onto the field with that long, 
ihykhinlc stride to administer to some fallen Carnegie hero?
OUTSIDE THE REALM OF FOOTBALL, the minor sports are 
quietly creeping. Rlsedorphs swimmers started to work yesterday with 
the customary devastating results. The plebes are coming right along, 
say the Plaid mentor. On the side, it Is rumored that the man has 
resorted to Lifebuoy and Llsterlne in view of the fact that there were 
only 23 candidates whereas he Is usually swamped with and by then.
SPEAKING OP MINOR.SPORTS reminds if of the ace story of 
Ihe month. As the tale Is, popularly related, It , Involves one canvashacked resin shouldered pugilist and his manager. It seems that this 
bum was taking an awful lacing in what was laughingly termed a 
tgbt. After the massacre had continued for four rounds without our 
hero doing any more than waving to the crowd, the guy staggered back
Hla manager grabbed him, settled him slowly onto the bench and 
Jsald, "Youre doin swell, kid. he hasn't laid a glove on us. 
"Yeli?" inquired the booh cynicalty, well, you'd better keep an eye 
the referee then 'cause somebody out there is giving me an awful 
dubbing." ________ _
Tartan Minor 
Sports Point 
For Openers
Rifle Team Meets Seneca 
Club; Cross Country, 
Tank Squad Report
The rifle team ban started Its 
>mpetltion the past two Friday 
eveningB against the Seneca club. 
The varsity has lost both of these 
latches by the scores of 1385*1351 
and .1363-1364, but this Is not to 
the discredit of Carnegie as the 
Seneca club uses free rifle' rules end has on Us team lour nation* ally known shooters. The plebe fillers have turned out 30 6troug, and will begin shooting approximately the middle of November.The cross-county team is anticl* patios. .qjUte. ^ s.. good . season Uiie year. They* started 'pracceMsV
Athletic Union, and The swimming teem coached by Mr. Risedorph reported for practice yesterday. A good season should be .in order for Carnegie judging from the general outlook of things. The team will ma two trips, away from home of soi Importance, these being to New
Tempie Night Owls 
Swamp Plaids 13-0 
In Sloppy Struggle
and Western Reset The plebe womens rifle team started out this past week with 94 freshmen women signing up. By
averages. The
Betty . Lehr, 99.00;
Tartan Soccer Team Loses Second 
Game of Season to Shadyside, 2-1
(Carnegie Leads Until Late 
In Game; Lalli Scores 
Only Plaid Goal
The Tech soccer team lost its 
l^nd game of the season last 
Tlureday afternoon at Shadyside 
icademy by a score of 2-1. Lalll, 
fth center forward, scored Tech's 
tow Coal late in the second quar-' 
Irom a- melee, in front of the 
|fa'- Shadystde's scores came late 
game, both Just before the 
p>*l whistle. As the game ended, 
Nlier goal was scored for 'Shady* 
||We, but it did not count as one of 
en was offsides. - ,
5.,,- ame was played, on a fast rw with no wind. Tech held its 
point lead almost throughout, 
H due to  lack of men for sublaililoii. weakened near the end.
Issed kick by one of. Tech's 
I Afield men, Clarlc, right halfback for the opponents, scored 
through goalie Kissel. A little later, 
Sykora, center forward, scored 
from right In front of the goal to 
make the final, tally of the game. . 
The Tech team, in spite of Its lack If material, was not too weak, but the forward. line was badly lacking In the final scoring punch, especially on the left side. The , backfleld Is well able to handle the : defensive, but not too sure o its offensive power. Were there more players to use as substitutes, these faults might be easily remedied.
The teams next game is with Slippery Rock State Teachers Col lege- on the home field next Satur day afternoon._____ ,
NEW YORK $8.00 
CHICAGO ^4 $9.50
.^E.YE.LANP?.3.S ,J)FJCBGJ-T.1(\.5.0 S ANC. S3715.  Anywhere East
wTSlTh
PS A*, a*-* coartisi
Campus Beauty Shoppe
BEAuTY CULTURE IN ALL
u Henna Rinse,
GuiMT,CUr and Hot OM ^nteecl Permanent-Waving 
Campus Barber Shop
 q?7CE nd SATISFACTION  WoodUwii Avenue _ MAyflower 3621
LEONARDS 
MENS SHOPWHERE LEADING COLLEGE STYLES PREVAIL Forbes and Atwood Streets Pittsburgh, Pa.
Plebe Basketeers 
Gird for Season
All Freshmen Interested In Plebe Basketball are asked i the Gym any day
but Coach Silverman would like to see more candidates. Numerals are awarded to team members participating in the necessary number of hatves.Basketball managers are also wanted, and should report to the Gym any afternoon after 4:30, or leave their names at the Christian
Renzo and Kusko Star 
on Runs and PassesFor Warnermen
TECHS LAST MINUTE 
RALLY FALLS SHORT
Teams Sluggish in Play; Tech 
Offensive Weak, Passes 
Consistently Bad
By Johnny-Weinberg
Pop Warners Temple Owls 
traveled over three hundred miles 
'last Sattirday,.tD cengj^ge^in^a scpp^J 
with the. Carnegie . Tech' team: 
they returned to Philadelphia, the 
same sight with a 13-0 victory over 
the Plaid as a result oic their wan* 
derings. The . game waB marked 
with a slow, sluggl6h brand of footbull ployed by'both teams.
Temple kept its undefeated rec
ord clean with the win over th 
Tartans being their fifth'straight 
for the season. However the great 
driving power for which the Owls 
have been famous thiB year was sadly lacking. Instead, a fairly effective passing attack was used to score, probably as a result of. th successful way N. Y. U. used the some means to defeat the Pitts, burghers.
Scoring tn the second and third periods respectively, Temple always had the situation well in hand. The first score resulted from a reverse, Davidson to Renzo, the latter going over from the nine- yard line. Smuklers 37-yard pass to Anderson put the . ball on the 13-yard line to pave the way for Renzos successful thrust. Kop-. csaks partially olocked punt In third quarter set the scenes for the second score for the Owls. The ball rested on the Carnegie 38- yard line when Temple came Is possession of it after that pui There, the highly touted Smuckler showed the only signs of Pop Warner's praise of him as thi greatest fullback in the game.' Dave put on a one man drivi figuring in five plays in a row re suiting in a touchdown. He hit thi Plaid line three successive tlnie gaining seyen, four, and .three yards respectively. Not satlsr ' with this, be tOBsed a forward p to Renzo on the ten-yard llne'from where he carried the ball to the one-foot marker only to be stopped by Freddie Lehman. Smuckler then.
EDWARD E. OVERBACH 
Candidate for president of Freshman Claes College of Engineering.
PRINTEBHAzel 0193
6470 Monitor Street
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
1 MAyflower 9723 
"Corner Forbos and Craig
SKIBO INN
5100 MARGARET MORRISON STREET
Delicious Breakfast, Luncn, Supper and 
Soda Gnll Service
Under Management of
BETSY BOSS TEA BOOM ,FORBES STREET AND OAKLAND AVENUE
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND 
STANDARD-SIZEDTYPEWRITERS J14.95 TO S75.00
Liberal Terms ... Free Trial .
BENT A TYPEWBITERFirst Three Months Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE MeCloy Building 
Telephone ATIanilc 8330 Established oyer twenly year
went over the goal for a touch*
Carnegie had two chances to bnsak into the scoring column, the first .coming la the : .first period
Temples 3&-yard marker In the Tartans possession. The threat ended when Frtauie ehman who. was in the clear and tan yards from the goal .line , dropped a pec* feet pass from Terebus. The second^ chance came In the last few Inutes of play alter a sdries of successful Terebus passes .put the ball in a scoring position. But old.Time and an. Inopportune substitution kept the whitewash but of danger.Temple attempted to make' the i? more one-sided when they
it resulted in a six-yard loss, for the Plaid.ft.usko, ' Davidson, and Renzo showed to advantage, for the Owls
Tartan Foes 
Beaten, Tied
Purdue, Duquesne Win; 
Panther Is Trounced
seems that' Uie Tartan will 
Into another hornet's nest this 
week at Lafayette, Indiana, the 
Boilennakors' having added a his 
Chicago team to their victory rec
ord, 19-0. Also, the Dukes finally 
got a taste of victory by spilling
Saturday. An unheralded Manhattan , coached by Chick Meehan of
of Holy Cross -y holding the Crusaders to a tie, 13*13. With Uie defeat of the Pitt Panthers at South Bend, Pittsburghs last chance for an undefeated tetun vanished. After playing throughout most of the game at 6-6 a last minute field goal
Pitt since 1931.
Womens Athletics
By Margie Green
 T)he Rlflery Club gives promise 
of anotheryearot sharp shooting, 
bulls eye .enthusiasm, with a nlnty 
seven fold increase In membership'. 
'With such a turnout tor the first 
praotlce, .we* are Inclined to antici
pate another^ year, also/ of All* American champs. >Shatt'
cess that It has proved to be. Now that she has already experimented with and settled two periods every
until 11:30 for beginners, she Is considering a mid-week period for Wednesday afternoon. This step, in Itself, Is an Indication of the spleudld progress made thus for.Before long, there will probably be various riding -parties or picnics, white in tho meantime, th-J
the techulaue of the not-so-good bo*
Jean Hayes breaks into ..print UUs week In place of Louise Pace'lor the beautiful fiop. 'Tie said that she made an especially easy and. graceful decent to the earth: when Bhe lost'hor- stirrup, with .not as  much as a smudge of dust picked up In the process.
Though bloyollng has taken , a : baok seat in favor of the xnoro. popular horsebackrldiuz, the appar*.. ent Interest that had begun to b bo. shown will probably be catered to - next Saturday morning. Bo sure-to.; take notice of further Information on the bulletin boards...........
Let's all cross our fingers that Lady Diana will beam her silver* lost" light on the night of Friday, October 26. With hor as an add* ed attraction for the W. A. A. Hal* loween Hnyrlde, even the slsslest of vou will contribute your pres* woe to the- affair. . Consider yourself the loser it you don't take ad*. vantage of the unique and good*ining that s ueig pi
HANDS ON 
CLOCK REACH 
|fWELVE O'CLOCK. 
COO COO BIRD 
POPS OUT 
REMINDING 
SN ARK () THAT 
IT IS TIME TO 
RETIRE. 5NARK 
TAKES ESCALA
TOR TO RUBBER 
PERCH . PALLS 
AND LANDS ON 
SPRINGBOARD ' 
WHICH PULLS 
FIRE-FIGHTING
OLOJ0CS3'4 3CNL
(g)CAUSING HIM 
|TO EXTINGUISH 
KE
LAMP 
ELECTRIC LIGHTS 
| ARE USED TRY 
SNAPPING OFF 
THE SWITCH
WHAT FLAVOR I 
WHAT MILDNESS I 
WHAT A SMOKE ! 
AND TWO OUNCES 
IN EVERY
ROSENE
wp  ; I
COSTLIER
TOBACCOS!
# Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS 
...Turkish and Domestic., than any other popular brand.
( Igutd) R.J REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY 
Winston'Salem, North Carolina
________;

---------------------------------------------------

Night School Section of Tartan
General News-Editorial Com
ment-Fraternal Organizations3Ttic dTarue^ie plaid
Arts Elect Officers 
Community Fund  Editorial
Appearing in Thi Weeks Issue
Liberalism:
 American" colleges' . have often 
been criticized because'of - their 
Galled1,'cloistered Beciuslon-S Only 
In comparatively recent years, 
der ever increasing pressure from 
the outside, have students begun 
take an interest In the way that 
the outside world'Is run. College 
thought has undoubtedly progress': ed from a former complete absorption in strictly campus affairs to an ever widening range of interests. Liberal movements have .sprung up - in many of our leading universities, and the younger generation has at Jast turned Its thoughts outward. The majority of youth Is still confused and bewildered, but thinking.In this respect; technical Institutions have lagged strangely behind; the liberal trtB and more typically academic college has forged eub- : stantlally ahead in a new tibn of society. In those colleges and universities which should be and are, because of their closer to the economic and indus- , trial motif of our civilization, liber- ..al thought and discussion is sur
prisingly scanty.
Is not the technical institution inherently more conservative by rea- eon .of its too close alliance with modern capitalistic productio: not tbie average engineering student 
-too .close to .the trees t forest? In other words, . . heavy emphasis on technological method and1 procedure has tended to obliterate the forces and factors . which have made those methods, possible, and which are making'of them a dangerous power, the misuse (of which will lead to economic 'chaos.
 Our country is now suffering severely from technological - .unemploymentfrom the labor-saving machine tb^t does not save labor, hut discards It. Under present conditions it is obvious that the market for even highly trained technic- ianfl haa contracted painfully. It is a. fairly open fact that those hardest hit; in the industrial world are en* gineers and architects of : years experience.i and iit Is also
o fre-qnehtly that our future economic . arid< social security wlll.be In the vhanfis of the economist and the engineer. .Will technical schools continue to graduate engineers that are
' transitional phase .in economic his; tory, and are consequently 111-eqiiip- ped,to enter a world which le fut .' losing faith in Indiscriminate production and marketing methods. Technological science with no plan nor goal' but- Increased production . is an'd has proved itself Irrational. It Is dearly to the best Interest of ;^.:prospectl7e';gTflduat;to.h&ve' - some constructive Ideas toward the building-of a new order, or at least '.-to':be. favorable to their Inception. -:-The yery:lIfe and spirit of the technical1 school demands an.emergence from thlB apathy, and a vital reall- aatlon of the dawn of -new age. .
cards at the Night Student Council office. Pledges made now may be paid at a later date. The Night Student Council.urges each of you to contrast the need of some' of unfortunate fellow citizens to your personal privileges, and to
A. C. GRIMM.
CommunityFund
' /.The annual Community Fund <trl7';w1H be formally .opened on . November-7.  Thefriculty and stu- i:flnt.*body at Carnegie have been risked; to contribute to this worthy -cause'.1 The purpose of the drive ; W fcoj.secure funds with which to . carry  on the - charitable, work un- i dertakeh by the various- organise- tlont .which are affiliated with the Community Fund.
 ' '. been fend still are In dire financial circumstances : themselves, and :.' -haye ' made sacrifices to attend 5 ; Nightv echool, nevertheless, there f ' are many students who can afford 4 " to. ^and should contribute to this. 5  humanitarian cause.  Your contri-\ faations need ' not be excessive. :<i. ^-Anything you may give wlll .be ap* J.- pfeclated.v.'WiU you_ turn down ?,. .these unfortunate women' and chll- it^~?:^en wnb nec<i youc help -Go hrdly :*: at-this time?
Tech Barber Shop
; Craig and Forbes . 
Oakland
Engraving Company]]
Hlf-tones etchings 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR,NEWS end COMM ERCI AL 
".vi-^rART 
FQRLL ILLUSTRATIVE
R OSENoses
> '  r GboOieyau?' bank.  
 -asyou would choose 
a friend
E.F* White Re-Elcied 
President in Ree ent 
Night Arts Elections
The annual election, of officers of 
the Night College of Fine Arts 
held Friday evening in the Arts 
building. Contrary to - past elec
tions in the college, there were iany. candidates for office, which fact accounted tor a close contests Judging from the number of students present at the election, tlie -lous departmeqts, and particularly the Painting' and Decorating and Agricultural departments well. represented. .The final results showed Mr. Edward White re-elected to the offic of President, Mr. John Schurko, vice. president, Mr. Joseph Acker- 1,' secretary, and Mr. Anthony Lalli, > treasurer.
Mr. White who is registered In ie Painting and Decorating department has been on the campus number of. years and has rep* resented his college In Council during the past three years. He has served as treasurer, vice president and president of the College of Fine ArtB. , In addition, Mr. White Is serving as Plaid editor
Welfare Aid 
Is Requested
To the Night Students:
The ' annual Community Fund drive begins November 7. Tbe executive committee of this fund has asked that the studentB of Carnegie make their subscriptions before that date. Through the extensive publicity given tbe Com- lunlty Fund in the past, you all re aware of the essential welfare work It carries on. It does not provide unemployment relief but ather offers constructive, services
during the. current year.Mr. Schurko is registered Architectural department. He too has been, active on the Night pus, having' been a member'of Night Student .Council during the paBt year. .Mr. Schurko.edited the Night school section of the 1934-35 Thistle as well as the current edition of the. student Handbook. Mr. Schurko is a member of Pbl Nu and Nu Sigma Alpha fraternities.
Mr. Lalll Is registered in the Architectural deportment He has been awarded two insignlas . in recognition, of bis activities work
of Fine Arts.
Enrollment 
Shows Gain
The latest registration figures 
for the current school year, as of 
October 11, Bhow a total registra
tion of . 2,536 students. Of this 
number, 696 students are enrolled 
in the College of Fine Arts, 667 in 
the College of Industries and 973 in 
the College of Engineering. While 
these figures are by no means com
plete, they point toward an estimat
ed increase of 21 per cent over last 
years registration figures and an increase of 20 per cent over the fig- for the peak year of 1931-82.
tratlon at Carnegie usually follows the trend In economic conditions. If this (theory is correct, we m:
NIGHT LIGHTS
id^heda, but is no relation 
the vampire . . Th approach
ing winter has George McCormack 
eyeing bis tennis, raquet very sadly. 
Manys the supper George has 
passed up to play tennis, Bom< 
thing entirely incomprehensible , t 
our more thorough eaters, llli 
Anthony Lalll, for instance . . . .1 
Herb Stone was somewhat ruined 
find himself the black sheep of 
bis Ornamental Ironworks class, 
practically everyone else being a 
teacher ... Since Ted LaRoa 
brought his radio to class, th arch*.' Itects! have, become, so.attached to that they could scarcely bearto turn it off during the Arts election . . Sidelights on the elections:, illy Lang worked her head off-for ie candidates' ticket, and. some ie tried to put her name np as an opposing candidate!Emerson Davis found himself a mere Babe in the. woods among all those hard-boiled engineers, whose step, In the attempt to teach.
off-shot of last Christmas, he claims Mr. Merrill has his Diction clas9 Bticklng their tongues out at each other ...'See-all Tell-all . . . Night Lights once again turns
ing Aesthetics at the Orchard (i Jernt, not a field) ....Prof. Kirkpatrick, In order to_ -Ing more culture to night students, has resorted to teachingclass In full dress! The dumb bunnies, however, suspect him asmerely trying to start a new fad . .. . Among the familiar faces oh the campus are Martin Hawn, and John Aird, whose Tech careers were Interrupted a few years ago ind who ?re just beginning to get iccuBtomed to the thistles again
George Garhart/ thinks that the jngiheers who pick Saturday night for their smoker and election dont know their politics. . After. all, 'George, Saturday  night is only for dates or baths! . . Lets-Keep-It-A-Seerept Dept.: The engineers forgot to make any signs for their Smoker till three days before the event!
around the AMs buHdlng tills year.
THAT the combination locks on. the lockers are beginning to get on the nerves of the Art students. .THAT If the new mailing list Is bawled up, the credit should go to the Night Student Council.THAT Night Lights should stick to writing.THAT we're sorry that the present Plaid staff doesn't go for hamburgers, |at least, not
autograph for his Thistle.... THAT the boys will be going up in smoke at the Union this week.THAT the high pre66ure Thistle-salesman deserted the Industries outfit this yea?.
Work Is wanted by Mr.
the old contributors returning to the fold.THAT a miniature "League of Nations' will represent the College of Fine Arts In Council.THAT, the mysterious black ca9eB have again made their appearance In Industries college.THAT T. J. Werner Is enrolled at Schenley high school
THAT a certain architect has consented to write an article on the Italo-Ethloplan conflict.THAT public speaking Is now
Dine at
KAHNS GRILL
Murray Avenue and Darllngtor 
Road
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
No Cover Charge
Industries To 
Hold Smoker 
In Union Sat.
Kiltie Band to Furnish 
Music; Souvenirs To 
Be Distributed
The Night College of Industries 
will hold its 'first affair of the cur
rent social season, the annual Election Smoker, on Saturday. evening at 8 P. M. in the Union on the third floor of tbe Administration building. These smokers are usually well attended, and the officers and committee in charge eraestly hope that their preparations for tbe
record. The Kiltie Band will be on hand to add color to the affair, and very attractive and useful souvenirs will be distributed. Boxing bouts and wrestling matches, that should please the fistic minded, together with stage performers and moving pictures for the theatergoers, should interest and entei
The chief reason for holding the smoker is the election of school officers, and to obtain a truly repreROLLER SEATING THE LEXINGTONAlways a Nice Crowd of the Nicest People, Cor. Lexington
GEERS
RIDING ACADEMY
Ride In the World's Most . 
Beautiful Bridle Path In 
Schenley Park
Industries registration card- which should bear, a r.egistration number above .9,000.
Al} students enrolled in tbe Vocational courses are Industries etu dents. Students who aspire to Candidacy for anyone of the four offices should familiarize themselves with the. eligibility requirements as set forth in the night O dent Handbook on pages 30 andPreparations for this affair offers an opportunity to those students who desire to earn a Night Student Council insignia during this school year. There will be three periods of work, and student workers are requested to report for work at 2 P. M. Saturday and ? P. M. The third period, that of restoring the Union to its original condition will hurriedly follow the close of the smoker.
Among the guests who have been
Jones, , Messrs. John W. iHobe, John Blackhall, William Dosey, H. G. Potter, H. L. McKee and Kent
(Eantfgfe
Editor EDWARD F. WHITE News Editor 
CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER
wrings its bands. The first what It wants, and the se hat It has. Theres no Tor the first but success; theres no cure at all for tbe gee1, ond.Gordan Graham.
Graduates
AND
Undergraduates!
Florence Fisher Parry 
Has MOVED Her
Parry Studl
From the William Penn Hotel To Its Beautiful 
New Location in 
The Smithfield Building
Corner Sixth and Smithfield 
And offers to AT.T. Tech Students 
AMAZIN& SPECIAL PRICES 
from $8 per dozen up
Come To Cfur Housewarming This Month and 
Be Photographed For Christmas Pictures
 for Mildness 
r
e 1933 Liqcitt ft Mmi Touoo-Cd<
i................
