\!en mu6t be at liberty to 
gay in print whatever they 
have in mind t say, pro* 
Tided it wrong no one.
J1CHARL&'ANDANA '
VOL. 29, O. .24
Todays Editoriale
Flse Hopes?
A Significant Protest
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF. TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA,TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1935Student Council Elects NewPresident Tonight FromSenate Officers
51. Scliultz, O. Bowser, 
C. Dozer Named 
Senate pleads
GENERAL ELECTIONS 
ARE NEXT TUESDAY
lleads of Respective Senates 
Have Charge.of Various 
Polling Booths
Tlie election oi president and 
ce-president of Student council 
from ihe senate offices elected last 
Tuesday, will take place tonight.
Bowser, Carl M. Dozer, and 
iiargaiet L. Schultz were the vici the Senate presidency race 
iQ ihe College of Engineering, Col
lege or Fine* Arts, and Margaret 
Morrison respectively.
Addison L. Gilmore was elected 
vice-president of the College of 
Engineering. Louise Hendersc 
celved Lhe highest number of i 
ior the position of vice-presidency in the College of Fine Arts, while Bflty JIackey will fill that position in Margaret Morrison.
Class elections will take place 
Tuesday, April 23, from 11:30 to 2:30, the day classes resume after Easier vacation. Polls will.; he located at the same jlaces ai tbe recent Senate elections, the College of-Engineering .juniors and seniors will vote, in Machinery hall, while freshmen and ^opho mores will vote In' Engineering hall-.
The heads of the respective Senates will be in charge of the elecpresident of Student \!en\mm will be selected.
If a president of one of the Senates is elected head of Student council, (he vice-presldenia malkcally becomes pfesidentof the respective Senate. In.the College
inctt head.^-new-presldit n. Elections Aof ni*'* replace those^ elevated .to
Dancing Classes 
Arranged for Men
F. Giolma Business Manager; 
Lessons Are 50 Cents
A dancing clasB for dormitory men wishing to improve their danc- lng7and learn new steps has been organized recently. The regular place of meeting' will be .Thistle Hall from'-'seven^.to weight <o'cloptr/. Pittl Llttell '35, and : her'partner, James McNaughton 35, are the instructors. Frank Giolma. 35, is managing the.business end. The Price is fifty cents a lesson'for the en attending.
A number' of dormitory girls and several girl commuters have consented lo act as partners for the dancing students. These dancing give the students wholive on the campus an opportunity conie' together tnore-^Oiteiii*;  Dein
establishment of theso'classes.
Professor Speaks 
To Science Group
Dr. Otto 'stern, - research ect- tlat in this laboratory" of mole-' wlar physics, has'been invited by |*>e National Academy of Sciences to deliver a paper at .their, annual meeting in Washington., The. pa- Per Is entitled "Remarks- on the Measurement of the Magnetic Mo-n<eEt of the Proton. Dr. Stern ?lll deliver :hls 'paper *ait (he mornS 3-e?s!ii?. on- .Tuesday,; AprJI_23,
*n< Dr. Estermann,- whoaccom- him from ,Germany,-.'bave working! onexperiments
Ex Prrf. Made 
College Official
Er. Charles ;Gott,V' formerly  
)iAm ev of the Department of Eng- Carnegie; iitf been recently appointed dean.':, of th Graduate
Dr. Gott took hia undergraduate 
ttt W.al Tufts cbllefee, and recelv- in - ^ ctors -'.degree < aHarvard . l919. He was ; assistant' pro-  the Department oi/Engri Isioa . of. General. Studies, 
In ivtLo,-'lfiSie: ^om 1619- until .1925. wi Dr- Gtt,went to.Tufts col-., tho na,ld became affiliated-with uepavtment. of-Engllsh'there. . 
nJ> 9Lt is also chairman of the ^ tnittee of Review, for .'English Thia position on the ColPetitions Due For 
Senate Vacancy
Petitions for the vacancy in one of the Senates . which will be caused by the elecin the Christian Association office by 4:30 p. m. today.' Inasmuch .- as It cdsnot be ascertained where the vacancy will occur until tonight, petitions from all the
s determined , a' vacancy exists, lhe petitions from that college will be recognized and an election will be held on General Election Day, next Tuesday, April 23, to All the vacancy.
Mining Board 
Sponsors Coal 
Investigations
Research Fellow Works 
Under Prof. Fettke 
On Experiment
For the past two years an 
vestlgatln of the slagging act 
.of Western Pennsylvania ctiala 
.various types of refractories In a 
small ^puljerlzed. coal installation 
has been- under way at Carnegie, 
and W. E. Stewart, research Jellow, 
In the Department of Mining and 
Metallurgy Is,conductlng the work, 
under the-guidance of Prof. C. R. 
Fettke.
The project (s being sponsored 
iby the Mining. Advisory Board 
Carnegie. Considerable Interest In 
lhe ..investigation. .hae,heen jsho.^tn. 
by -various 'companies- who.'dohated' 
refractories and equipment for teBt 
purposes.
Determin Slag ActionThe purpose of the Investigation 
is llrst, to determine experimental
ly, the amount, kind, and mechan
ism of the slagging action of var
ious1' grades of coal - on different, 
types pf refractories; second, 
corroate the slagging'action with1 
the various, physical and chemical 
-properties of the coal ash and 
Tractorles; third, to determine 
percentage and slee of coal 
escaping In the flue gases.The types of refractories being tested are are clays,' high alumina, mullite, acid, ..basic, and central. .  -Fr-pm-i -appearances*ofwork- -to dat le seems the higb'umlna and refractories of hlgh mullite tent are outstanding. A specially designed - .down-draft cylindrical furnace fired by powder'coal is being'used. The bricks to -be tested form the inside lining of the furnace.- A special type of rotating burner was designed which gives a flame similar In shape .to a low frustum- of a cone. Tn order to accelerate the slagging action ithKTirn'e>^8.coria\rhcted'rso' theT flaml'lmp'ingei the refractories tie-' ing tested. Tfcfe burner is mount- e<F at the top of .the furnace and is capable of toping removed after .tests so Lhat the refractories re readily taken out'for. measurement. By suitable methods of measurement before.and after testing it la ^calculate eroaio^Jftsa
temperature range indicate that no. erosion-occurs providing the wall.temperature does not exceed the softening point -of coal-ash. Above this temperature tbe erosion increases quite rapidly as the Jliildlty*-3>f ash-.Increases[.with increased ^temperature. Likewise,-the -higlier;the^ash softening- point* a coat the less eroslon lt----i the refractory.
Results of these tests wl|l be of Importance -both to manufacturers
umlna and high- mullite1 type refractories.
The project has had the ?td of
I Campus Broadcast |
Two Carnegie Quarter-hours will ue heard over radio station WWSW during the coming week. All of the  programs'  will he- broadcast from the caiupus studio In the Ex
hibition hall.
Today from 1:30 to 1:45 Mildred Cox will offer .a piano concerto in . minor by*.Grieg.
Tomorrow, April 17 the Tartan Qoarlev-iiour;\wU go. 6n'~.the a?r.at 7:16- with Helen.Jayne. the Scotch. Lassies-: Alice.. Phllpo tt, and: Betty Sckrack- George Kittredge -.36,; Department of Drama-will read a monologue entitled "A Trip to Chicago.-.
Alfred Broadhead 35. captain of tae- varsity rlflle team will be the :iguest 'speaker.-^Carl J3ozer. will go
350 Students 
Attend AntiWar Meeting
Three Speeches Made; 
Resolutions Read, 
Receive Approval
CONDEMNS HiiARST, 
OPPOSES FASCISM
Resolutions ent to President 
Roosevelt; Local Croup 
.To Enhance iVlove
Over 350 Carnegie stuc crowded into room 104 Industries last Friday morning to participate
chairman and Introduced the speakersDr. Bernard C. Clausen of the First Baptist church; Mr. Walter Relis, executive secretary of:-.tbe National Student league, and, as impromptu speaker, Charles  Ackley V}6. former cadet major of the Carnegie R. -O. T. C.  '
loiutio
the students, and sent to President Roosevelt.
The resolutions read as follows "Be it resolved that:We students herewith rccord our alarm at the threat to democratic institutions'whlch Is increasingly evident in. the mounting wave of -vyar preparations- and in the tendency to welcome fascist and non-democ^atic principles; and that in this expression we place selves side by.6ide with, students of- similar thought- throughout the
minority faction. of . Americans .which seek to drag this country and we join with students and workers'throughout the world In .cjecl^rlng our utter disbelief In imperialism as a policy which fosters and thrives upon war and suppression of civil rights. We -oppose all attempts to rob' the Anler- .lcan -people^ifthelr , civil .rights and -any- (rends towards fascist; government wherein our civil "rights are jeopardized. We condemn all activities of the Hearst press directed towards that goal.Pledge United Effort "We' feel that the critical situation in the world today, with the special hazards for ihe youth of the country, warrants continued unity agalnet war on the part of students and therefore pledge tinuance, of our cooperative . efforts
We greet and support the stu-' who participated
pledge, support to the Pan-Amerland'go ' on1- rtcdrd vinT'-fffvbr*'af ' 'a 
similar national s'tiident congress in the United States next fall.With the young people of country still suffering from the effects of the last .war, we condemn the record-breaking armament appropriations, the provocative maneuvers, to be held by;'the United fCnnlbwpd.on Page Two)
Set for Fourth Scene of Liliom
immmm 
$0 .j
Photograph a model for a sc will be presented In the Little Thei continue after the Easter recess.
Liliom, which
Molnar Combines Fantasy, 
Naturalism iyi Modern Play
Glider Club Has 
New Flying Base
Lack of Facilities Is Reason 
For Changing Location
The Glider club' has been forced 
to change the location of its point 
of activities from the County Air
port to the Pltlsburgh-Crcensburg 
Airport.- This change was necessi
tated by the inability of County 
Airport officials to provide hangar 
space for the clubs glldei 
u6 Field, located near the. County 
Airport, was, Judged to be unsafe' 
for glider, flying, because' of the 
tact that it is located atop a 
plateau, and is surrounded by billy 
and treacherous terrain, which impractical in the case of a forced- ,'andlng.
 Although lhe Plttsburgh-Grceiis- burg -field is quite far from Pitts- rs. pi
gpring'vacalToi to' -Victor'Saudeft/-- president of; 1 club. The membership has creased to such proportions  aa make, it impossible to have everyone in the club trained by mer. The out-of-town students will b,e given preference In that re spect, until the close -of'school,- - Tlie Westlnghouse Company has
with the actual flying work. A tow car and trailer have been donated by A. C. Gua Haller, who is also working in conjunction with the
be the-world's--most-efficient sail plane.' T.The ..chifca original glider Is , In flying xonditlort, .and//the:nrem'bers are experimenting with It:In flight, at every opportunity. It has' been painted In a novel color-scheme; the wings are yellow,-with a-blue stripe on the leading edge; - the ailerons and elevators are plaid;, the stabilizer le green, and the rud- oer is red: The' ilcensenumber is G-1313-O.
Ppl Yo Ought to Know..
By Cilfion P. Boutelle_
Tom Daria, Vice President of Council
If you ever have^any illusions that Carnegies Btii'deiit gov
ernment, smirks of dishonesty and petty, politics you should have 
ta:.talk with .Tliojrias' ^njsjjresiderit. of. th& Student
concil.' HeLhas'some ie'aslh'tVr ^arntedt< tiiak1 yon 
lookat the situation in quite a different light. In fact he-11 
probably convince you that if there is. any lack of governing ability it's your own fault. \- - -
No student government can func
tion to perfection without the back
ing and Interest of the student
body it represents. Tom believeB that the -Carnegie students - have: ^placed ajandi; ^cajPupon'Council because they have taken such Itttle Interest li the student go^ ernment.
;Our student government  v : the straightes1 ,'oC ,;any that :know oft. Tom claims.: He . attended "a^'con- :- veiitlon of stu- .dent govern- r-ment- headland \after hearing Tom Dana r the-: graft ..a politics existing on och<-  - -----^__,y ..ca
imjiiiii.iSit. one-college 
head told of-twelveMbrr fifteen  hundred dollars being- spent, to: win a campus- election.
of Theta Tau scholastic honorary,
electrical, society, and vice presi-dent of the Delta ;Tau Delta fraternity. . -'.-VJ{e the general;, chalrmah- f^ru Jfe ift th lhe 195
place f the heyday afternoon - he
"Carnegie is lacking : In. trad!-
show that he thought-th school spirit poor ana steaany . waning. Facilities for recreation- are not ufficJent- Engineering students are lax in their physical development. - The student who worlcs his >Vay through college gets more out .of school than'one .whose.-education ' rs paid for. by aomeone>-else.- Tom has worked throughout his four
; The--Brown house is .merely a means to an end.:and in the future he expects to see the erection of a liew student center.- \Therels a lack of personal, interest - :xoward ^tu3its on .the -part .ofthe - professors. The ones who are the rhost interested - in tbe students achieve the best; results.I Carnegie is-merely a technical high school lor-those who are-here- qniy to study: . For - those;.:.i\vho study .and; get: Into :activltles;.'tt-.Ma college. There should be- moreMIb-. eral subjects . .taught - and-' fewer highly specialized .courses. ^.sV:-..-.' i Fraternities are. the 'backbone' of dampus.'sprit; ' They shoulcP. be huilt up more strongly. ; Tom>would like to see the admlnftraUniflv th . fraternitieB:; more cboriilns d sup- ^ -
<Lihom Portrays Life 
Of Hungarian Waif; 
Records Utilized
j Settings for Ferenc Molnari 
Liliom,' which begins Its run ii 
the Little Theater this evening, 
hays been designed by Mr. Lloyd 
Weuinger of-the Department of 
Drama. Mr. E. W. Hickrhan 
rectlng the production, and Miss ;Ellznbeth - Schrader has designed vthe costumes.
V The play, which anticipated, the technique of the German Bxpresho Mr.iprobiems- 'for the Iwith its call for six different and elaborate sets. ' The' picture above jis that of the climactic fourth scene In' which the principal character, LMIom, commits suicide. (The Little theater production also niakeB Considerable use.of recorded .sound effects.
. ' Considered Finest Play [; < Tills play,.considered by many to
bf-r;: ......................!<at :nataaliam .and- fantasy. Irony and pathos. It is a play concern' Jiig. a roughneck, who. Iives by^ bis wits In the streets of Budapest, Hungary, the city of Molnars birth.
'Liliom was first produced in Budapest in 1909, where It was only Indifferently successful. ItAmerica until 1020, when the Theater guild produced It with "  '  d Joseph Schmid
the- usual Broadway plays of the day.
Cast Is Listed
Regis Joyce, Patti Littell.-Katherim. Bauer, Margaret Goldberg, Tod Egij,..prmya Lou Suess; Mary Hub- lr, -Sylvia Lipka,":- Jane Wltmor, Gergie Etta Taylor, Leonora Bis- singer, Barbara Kocyan, Ben Yaffee, Wiliam Davis. .James McConnell, Homer Hull, Barry Mullk
William Herz, Ralph Nason, Robert.. Gordon, Charles1 Ashbaugh, Brinton,Turkle,. Malcolm Milligan, and George Lloyfl,"'
Study Approach 
To Brown House
Architects: Seek to Minimize 
Distance from Campi
In line with the work being done .o' further the student project of changing the Brown House Into Student Activities' building, a regular local sketch problem entitled "'An Approach lo the Brown House, vas submitted to seniors In the Department of Architecture iaet Frl- ' The . problem Is due next Ttesdtry.'^hiwiifc1 "beeU' oxiend*?'d' over the Easter vacation to give students t chance to carry out their a more finished degree than .the short sketch period permitted-them. - 
The competition le being held because of the objection raised tbat ihe Brown House is too far from the campus to be a useful activities building. It was felt that if a gradual ascent from thia side of-4Jief campua^were. {jullt th* dlsEaster Vacation 
eginx Tomorrow
:30. and will tlnue- until - next .Tuesday morning at 8:30. During this recess no day or part-time classes will be held.In any of : the colleges, including the Carnegie Llbj^ry: School;
The njglvt - school's recess wlll.begin.at 10:30-Wednes- day evening. . Classes will ' be discontinued until Monday, evening- aftef.-Eastpr, -..
New Library Building 
Reports Are Unojcial
Carnegie Men 
Attend Chem. 
Tercentenary
Twelve of Group Present 
Papers on Chemical 
Investigations
Twelve Carnegie professors, In
structors, and research fellowB will 
present papers at the elghty-nluth 
meeting of tlie American Clieiulcul 
Society which will be held in New 
York City from April 22 to 26, in
clusive, at the Pennsylvania, New 
Yorker, and Waldorf-Astorln hotels.
Tlie meeting, being held to cele
brate the tercentenary of chemical 
industries iu the United States, 
will include luncheons, banquets, 
theater parties, inspection toiirs and reports oi^ Investigations mudo In various fields of chemislry during the past year. There wiii also be.a series of talks on the history of the. development of chemical industries in the United States from a single sinull tanning-piunt established in 163C to the trinny varied and tremendously important Industries of today. Seven or olght thousand scientists are expected lo attend the sessions. n
Carnegie Men Prominent
The papers by the Carneglo r
chemistry, i try. Throe sented by Dr. Walter R. Klrner of the Coal Research laboratory and
Ernst Berl,' Dr. H. C. Howard, Dr. Guido H. Stempel, Dr J. C. Warner,. Mr. William B. Warren, Mr. Bernard Juettner, Mr.- R. C. Smith, Mr,.F..R. Mlllhlser, and-Mr- Wll- lla,riis- jr- Svifh^ly. /-Sevenii-bthcr Carneglo professors are also planning ..to attend the;nieetinES.
The American Chemical Society is the largest chemical society InIt holds its meetings year in the varlou cities throughout
Debate Champion 
Speaks to Group
Delegate to World Congress 
Discusses Demonstration
Serrll Gerber, .last years national Junior college'debate-champion /s speaking at 11:80 today, to tho Safety-Valve,- Ln roomCllS^Bhgiaeet- Ing Hall, on What' Shall1 We do After Al>r|r 12.
' Mr. Gerber is a student at the 'University of California at -Los Angeles and was a delegate from the National Student league to. the
December.
He.- Is now -engaged- on a tour ota
 major, - campuses of America, lias already addressed students choola and colleges in California, Minnesota,. Wisconsin, Illinois, and-O^io. . . ...
 -One- of the .resolutions. p^seeS at
formation of a continuing committee. All. those Interested in such a-committee ar-invtted to come to the' meeting -where' its formation will be discussed.
Trustees Consider Proposal 
But Take No Official Action
Authenticity of Petition to City Council Asking 
For Land in Schenley Park Is Questioned;
No Further Steps Will Be Taken
Published roports tliut Carnegie was socking a portion of. . Schenlcy Pork for the erection of a combined librury nd clock ; tower were branded as untrue today'by members ot the Board of Trustees.The trustees did consider ihe proposal but no official action 
was taken.A petition was hnnded to the city council askings tor land but it. has bcon withdrawn.  
The erection of.a libruiy ami. through tho eo-oporntion
Prof. Directs
NewTypeBldg.
Construction
Walter II. Stillen Develops 
Sy6lem of Frnmeless 
Metal House
A Carnegie professor, Walter H, 
Stulen 1ms conceived und developed 
a typo of bulldLiig consti uctlon, tlie
and Is tlie result of half years'' work.
>. In this new type, of construction' wide-sheets of '-Keystone copper- bearing steel are cut into triangular-shaped pieces, bent and welded together into a modern frameless typo of structure, which 'is rigid und light In weight.
All building units are bound gether hy continuous sheet metal channels, ' no matter where, they are' located. All columns are' built of tlie .aa.me tFpe of construction,
architecture.
Th& exterior and interior walls materials and appearances can be decided by the architect.  On all
contained ln them. Modernistic lighting effects can;bo had because, of. the, hollow * spacoa. Vabuum bricks can be used ln the windows and ceilings, and walls can also be made of part glass If desired. One of the most. Important features is tbat- this- 'construction -.-can : be adapted to any style of architoc- ^uralsdsslgn...
A'model b'ulldlng employing this' typo of- construction is now being built in frpnt of Machinery hall.
ricated all.materials for if
REDUCED RATES OFFERED
Tickets at reduced rates are available tor-two Theater Guild Productions at the Nixon. The plays fire-Shakespeares. "Tamlne of the Shrew" -with Alfred-Lttnt vnd Lynn Fontanne. the week of April 22; and Bebrmans'Rain from Heaven with Jane Cowl and Jolm Halltday. the week of April 29: Tickets, from 66 cente to $2.50 re- duced^rcmfSS. cecU1- ta' $2:7^\can' be- ordered from  Mr.' Kenyon' In
Grades Are Necessary Evil, Passing 
Mark Nonsense, Say Psychologists
By Richard Byrne 
Back -in. the summer of '1921 a set
of hlstory-papers.-was -belBg^markcd-group of professors.' One of
examination as an .aid in marking. He accidently lost it among the students papers and the other lncrstwhlle students who peratlng from mid-semester grades. 
Grades; accordlug to-paycholog- ts. are a necessary evil. The;stu- mt needs to-be pushed to'do his best. But as a standard of work, the passing mark Is. and always has been., a Action. The results of examinations conducted. In the high.schools.of J.oa AJigLeles.. shiy.
student has reasons for the graded he receives. - Many teachers  taae into account the appearance.- attlr lude. writing, and English :of their students. When such Intangible factors - enter Into grading.- a uni- forrii result is impossible ..
The-traditional, test is a written ie. -As such. it.is ln reality-a test ones writing ability, as well as
a grade that is based onlv upon a relative comparison of merit. Sonic departments -avoid this .variation t>y having' 'a member grade one question only on all the papers. Then each succeeding question is graded by a different professor. This makes the mark a result of direct comparison and tends toward a consistent grading system.
tional examination. Psychologists -favor the true-false, multiple choice, and completion tests. These tests enable professors to cover' more mateTlal-than would;he possible it a written test: they are easy to grade and may .be marked by per- sons other than the-teacher: -they assure the student a fair grade and .determine his exact standing^In- relation  to the- class. In many cases -they-tee.t-bSth-therStudeatfs-ffieHieiT and .his reasoumg powers. ' Psychologists- 6ay. the beet -way
questions about -whloh then start at tne -beginning^and check the : remaining questions. Judgements made rapidly are. found to.-, be more effective .than ; those which have bteen erased: and pondered over a long time. . Crammlng. is found to be. qviit'i tffectlve ae far as passing a test is concerned, but the > knowledge 'ac- quired Is 'bf no real value and Is never retained long
1 city, atnto, and federal i nioiits was proposodvln a petition placed before tho city council. Tho petition wuq signed by John lx Porter, chairman of the Board-oT- Trustees of Carnegie institute. - 
Lotter-Is Mistake .>The letter, was rubber stumped
ail olTice clerk.
Since Mr.  Porlor has not beo in PJttslmvgh tor somo timo tho.aurv. thentictty of th petition wtn bal\air tloncd by city council officials..
- Annuunce'mept' of the rocelpt.-oi' tho petition und .tho publicity accompanying the publishing oi- the letter baino as a - completo surprise to the .trustees. While.the board had.considered the.' proposal -
Ing a - library at Cavnegle th^site- mentioned.and, at the present..; time. Robert Garland, a membe^ ^< the Carneglo trustees find president of Lhe city council termed the-pro : posal as 'embryonic/' *Therf. IB,
TehtatJv 'architect's Bkethe were presonted.for'the erectiotwoG 
a.mocjgCn flrjpsoof.llbraryybullilljiR.  ; for, {he pr.citectloh ;25',ll00 .teohni-\\ cal1 liooks which 'kro stored in tlkKO:
'' Rif. Poiler's letter stated. v|f the- institute :1s- granted .-Authority by: : the .city to' use. approximately two  acres-of Flag Staff hill in Schenlev . . Park as a site and the federal:an&':  slate authorities -will approve th : - projoct as part : of the work relief program the Institute will furnish ; ;--, materials and equipment and'. tkO : the upkeep'and tnalntenancal * Ing In .perpetuity.'/.;> sslred wAs - the hlllsidQ-: ^ Frew . -Street, soiith--:, Inlstratlon Hall. This-i. location would necessitate the loTO>; erlng of the present embankment, v 
Need New Building - leed foi an activities, library hanjbeen-.vok-., - students., faculty, and administrt .tlon^on numerous occasions:'.j-FOi1. several -years. Student : council been setting aside funds to be - for the construction of such-a- build-* ing
Several, months ago conblderafclc ' campus Interest was aroused lni.a - memorial, .clock-to^er. Plans fOP ; - the tower w^re dratvn up. Th:' - project; however ^as discarded tte ' r cause of its limited usefulhest 
- Twenvy-^v-raoasitn' -iechnicat-'-> volunjes. one of the best-collea. -' i collections Is inadequately houspi|v In a-wooden, structure, city coua^: -- ' was totd. Th liiiV -a-Y. M.-C^4=r^ A. building In pre-war days, ^vides Improper protection and tho library faculties ere limited.
Death Claims Lives 
OfThree Trusteed
Armstrong; .Crawford, Soost 
Prominent Industrialists '
ed with the company for 21 ye&fc i k Five days later - on AprllS* ^
chairman of the Columbia Gas ahd ' Electric company, and a: membe#-'. of -the Music Hall^com!mltteeV:'4&^ third member, of the board,'William.-^ J. Soost. died on Aprll .S: He -waB afe member , of the  City'council,f tliivi, Auditing committee and the Mual :' hall,.committee. . Vacancies created, .by '-thes'e^' deaths are expected to -lie;fllied-^^ the -very - near future.'.' v:""
Student Directories 1 
Are On Sale Again-i
Student directories^
dent^at Carnegie;- and', a sourco of information.Ing c^pue .activities,f as''3r<il^jiu^ being indispensable jn .connectl witS: ali: 'socrai.:ujictloni'' campus
t.- eyery;. yo6geaap l< u<wful U l-ln'cbnduct^fi'ff asfell u

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIETAHTAfESDXf. APRIL lfi,'l93Sr
3TUe Carnegie aTavtau
PHONE MAYFLOWER !
> Mana*r__---
the Plttibureh Poit Office
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE.
JULIAN F. MUNSTER
MCBA 1___MARGARET GRIFFIN
Editor_______MARJORIE C. GREEN
COPY EDITOR; Ruth GartateoD.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Welter Adamson, Clltloa BouUVe,- " " I iX r Emllyt Stuart. Marcel'll 
REPORTERS: * wt!mt! Baldy, Alpho Black, Dorothy Booth. Tol>y Cross, Betty Flehor, Robert Franc;. ... Kathortno Gnrrahan. Betty Gleason, Guy Hatforty,
Kingsbacker. Fred LlvlnjtBton, William Lord. Eleanor Lowrcy. Alberto McClure.-Sylvia OdJe, Uutb Pea.fi- man.' Sylvln Bavlck, Adelaide Rcrninjrton._ EasreDliSchlayerrclbele.
. GenlvMley, Jtotort Zledmen. 
SPORTS STAFF: J. Scott Charles. James Hag!i. EdHn .MalUfnn. Artrtlnon Gllmor. -Tohn Wplnb*, Eujtcne Kenruson, Paol Schwarte, KJell Lynghelm. BUSINESS STAFF: Joe Allon. Ftobert^Grelner, Jerome 
Layffnl Krttt^MeCntcheon. Donald Noort. Herbert Moscow, Robert Aaron. Dan Weller, Donald ZalenkB, Harry Ziff. Daniel Supon. Fredorlc' . CIRCULATION STAFF: L. Gunha. Assistai TV leer. L. Gandtcma Mitchell. A. Prendes. -. Conmao. L. Hardie. : TYPISTS  Helen Siel
ir; A.
Sue Faller. Samael Lloto
False Hopes?
W
HEN' the Pittsburgh newspapers pub
lished architect's drawings of a proposed 
Memorial Library on the Carnegie campus, 
practically everyone was taken by surprise liiifc with that surprise arose the hope that per: iape, finally one of the most crying needs on 
tHo campus would be fulfilled.
;! i-Nbw.-as more light Is thrown on the subject, 
.With:each emerging fact the liope that such a 
btiilding will ver become an actuality grows a
- shade dimmer. 
r:. ,>The petition was unofficial.
" The Board ofTruatees knew nothing about it.
> The matter is too embryonic to be given 
con,0jfderation as yet. -r
Wljat small hope does remain Is this: Now 
,-thacithe project has been suggested  and It 
seems- on the surface entirely feasibleit is 
. .not too late for the Bonrd of Trustees to give 
It .full consideration. Even if the original re* 
ports were unofficial, lets not drop the idea 
v.yet. There may'be something in it.
A Signifimant Piotest
"'^PRECEENTED -in lhe 1,istory of Car' negie was last Fridays anti-war demon: ifltraition. Although students at Carnegie are 
reputed to.be too mucii'Interested in technical 
; . Vfltudles to display an active interest in matters 
-,outsideof the. classroom, they filled to overK i-flbwing the assembly room In Industries, even 
:> 'ljtioUBh' the irieting received little publicity. 
I:'<'While. Mr. Hearat may attempt to minimize
- \ th importance 'ofthls meeting aud cynics may 
i r irgue' that students merely took advantage of 
I Van* opportunity to cut class,-the fact remains
that about four hundred students were present 
:anfl, from all indications; enthusiastic. 
i^/vr^The demonstratlfepc-here was not a. single in
dependent meetlng. it was part of a-broad'
! ; novement Involving students in polh North 
;: ' rid South America and sponsored'by various 
V? --groups. The-,number of those participating Jn .
-States- alone hs -bs'en c.-Jlcuated 
i V at. one huudred thousand. In tiie .face of the 
; present world situation, which some have 
^^'willed'more fraught with..danger than that of. 
l^;l4'the fact that students united to protest
- against thievery situation ia of extreme slgnlfe'flckrtce.'  ;
^ v'- . lThe demonstration cannot be dismissed .as .a 
^>-sophotnorIc gesture nor yet.as a futile display 
^ ^ 0?.emotion. ' It' Vas. a definitely, organized pro?:'^.te8t against the forces of reaction,, the forces 
which-produce war, and as such must convince 
jitfgoista that the attitude of students toward 
war .has changed considerably in the - last 
-r 'twiity-flve years. As they are immediately 
-^effected by a war,- their attitude merits consid-. 
^ration. .
V' V-Although _ Hears t may'publicly declare the
7 -protest a failure, that is because lie under5v ^stands, only too well the potentialities of such 
1: W 'movement. It is no longer possible for stu* 
;li),identsto maintain the passly attitude of sliir^ientiy; wishing for peace..-The machinery ofv 
^;:-;-.1wiir-iis too powerful to be overcome by mere 
JL-'-:i'ctfrfim. : It must be' actively opposed by a 
^yi^^oiiig ; united movement which ^cn build up 
: - v propaganda AGAINST.war In opposition to.the 
propaganda FOR war which inevitably accom%5tfanteS.m6dera imperialistic struggles. . 
i^i^ThUfl it' is that the- movement agaliist war, 
^^^e^'n.iat.-i.Carnegle with. ; this demonstration, 
not'he allowed to cease with the end of 
!>ijhe!aeilng! The-resolutions p&ssedmuat not 
Ij^iiio^d- to .become mere^. flowery ; phrases .to 
frwtten.The  -committee 
*wtlcii:'irbnn.ulated t^ attem ptd to . make of 
^^^:;'atminimum program .which1 all who are. 
T^iMreiy.interestedinth^'m 
^^arrcduld accept;, no matter what their other 
beliefs.
;;jMi;it;3:ciniportant for the'students of . arnegie 
thp!t ;the' anti-war inoyement - progresses,; 
?^iiit%.'tie' resolutions are made real attd mean^i-nrfU^^To do this abroad committee is .aeces* 
-^aary. Including all students interested in comXliilliig'^rar.' Go matter-whmt thelr other, affllla-' 
^'v'^Ma^may be. - Only, through such a committee, 
^ valu be iceompllsbed -
Writers Row
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT
boy/ he almost Invariably pictures one of three Individuals  a broad shouldered brute wtib lias hopes of belag next years.' All-American fullback, a helgh-di-bo playboy heir.to the Nut and Bolt Trust In racoon coat and slouch hat, or else the persistent bell ringer and door knocker who iuslsts that you should subscribe to McCalls because be is working his way through college." I know that before I came to college I entertained just 6uch c
campus, a plaid C," a racoon ____ .. _sample magazine under the arm. I knew that I would nover be the burly fullback the first string water boy), and
I must enter the
out.any magazines, and received a lasting surprise. That surprise has not yet worn off, for in three years I have yet to meet
and  scholastic work..
I have had very little personal experience* in working during .the school term, so that I can not gauge the effect upon my own school work; there seems to be a definite lack of organized material dealing with the relations between school
the last three years.
To me, the acceptance.of everyday employment outside of school hours seems like a definite step towords neglecting school work. It may not appear as an 1mpoint of an average Btudenl carrying thirty,.
required, he is expected to give ten hours . a day to hie scholastic duties for seven days a week, and the work will probably be assigned on that basis. Taking these figures as only the roughest of an approximation 5f the average conditions, I can not Bee any room for an out of school job. A ten-hour day is a decidedly full one.Bu&collpge men do hold outside positions and get through their college course. Certainly, but the college course suffers. If It Is not neglected dlrcctly, it will be affected Indirectly. T'he day in -classes, and the evening at work, with the preparation or the next day's classes sandwiched somewhere in between, is most certainly a tiring Youttne for any man. If due time is given, to cach of the divisions of his endeavor,' the 2ones of the day reserved for
But the human body needs Its due rest, and. if Insufficient time is allotted there will lie an unconscious letdown during the active - periods.to counteract the deficiency.
fiecesslty-'wofk most of the eVening s of. the' campus restaurants. Classes until four-thirty or flve-tbirty, and then a dash work.' Setting, waiting, serving, and
ports, and general preparation for the -i
; home called forvsnatches and snoozes
the nlghtclerk. at ^nearby hotel. Carl i
out any Intimation of having
-He is actually working only half of the time he leat any ta^k. More than one of : Carls professors;- would be distinctly sur- . prised to knowthatvhe sleeps an average of twenty minutes out of a forty-minute
decent record for a-man who puts but half tlie time that his classmates 'do -to his scholastic duties. Tliere is' no argjimept;.. against the fact that Caria 'college woirk' -
exhaustion and recognizes-the'Tuental aud
' aside and completely forget them is wholesome recreation ad gives ft new strength when one veturns to the harness.- Cons'tant plugging at either school work or the (
lead to such a disregard for the need of .diversion, . and the constant attention to work may become of more harm than' good. Of course, there are. persons who have undertaken no activity beyond the
But does part time work hamper the student? I believe not, and in some cases- it seems, to be beneficial. A certalu classmate of mine remarked just recently that .his Saturday-work in a department store
He explains it on the theory of.work on Sunday aftemoon.and evening.;A" few hours, of extra-curricular work each'week ehould-not be'a handicap to any ^student. Consider the time that the leaders of,the various campus activities devote- to^heir-rc^e^vc -organiz&tl<Ki6, and then, inspect' their standing on the semester -
:: part -time .work can not very easily' be <
-; Vlll"most likely be .on a par wlth-the class grind, who 'spends-all:of his time at-W6 .- books and [defeats his own- purpose through - over-indulgence and stagnation.'- ICFart time employinent does riot pppear - as .-drawback to. the iBtudent.raa Jong
A. C. E. Horizon
r the Aoodatlei
and included In this victorious company was William E. Borah, of Boise, Idaho. The vote (52-36) to keep the United .States out of-foreign Entanglements permitted the Great Contradictor to utter a fervid, Thank God, but within a few days he was requesting a senatorial'Investigation, of religious persecution' in Mexico. *
This inconsistency. has been - Borahs consistent role, for over twenty-five years as a national figure. ' When one 'considers that his favorite authors are Balzac' and Hawthorne, that be believes Thomas Jefferson'the greatest polit/cal philosopher la sll the history of 
the world-aisd Alexander Hamilton 'one of powerful intellects in the history of governments, Borahs star part is. not surprise Ing. To attempt to. reconcile the political creeds of Jefferson and Hamilton into a phil1 osophy of thought iand action' Is, perhaps, -Inconsistent from the beginning. / '
But Borahs nature is. partly the cause of this weakness, which is also a. virtue! Scrupulously honesthe gave up his law and busl- connections when he went to the Senate,
stitutions protector, and this has made him a dangerous doctrinaire when a loose interpretation of that document.might be best for the country as a whole. He is against bonus pa>;- ments and a high larlff.- 
On the Senate floor his oratorical skill is the dellght/of visitors and the envy of colleagues.
Europeans.
Born and educated in Illinois, Borah graduated from the University of 'mltted to the Bar in 1690. it funds gave out in Boise, 1 drunken lawyer make a fool of himself in court, Boroh decided that if a drunken lawyer could make a living In this town, he, sober, surely could. Within ten years he had taken part in the prosecution of BUI Hayward, married the Governors daughter and been defeat- d in his first senatorial campaign In 1901.. lut in 1906 he went.ln with a state-wide push, nd Old Guard Senator Aldrich offered him. he Chairmanship of the Committee on Labor, and EducationBorah was safe; Aldrich had* looked him up. Immediately Borah (who hates, bosslsm) began advocating bills for an eight- hour day for government labor and investiga^ tions into the Steel Corporations twelve-hour day, seven-day-week. An irregular in the Senate often, at elections Borahs political wagon is invariably hitched-to the .Grand Old Party
ocrallc supremacy, is, no doubt, one of the virtues of inconsistency!As Chairman of the important Foreign Rela? tions Committee, he Is.one of the best informed men' In ' Washington li "European^ affairs, but he has never-been to uroe.. He-lbn^
eled to South .America, still he can talk authoritatively on Latin- American problems. ' A -humanitarian; Bornh' speaks' for World .Peace and has successfully remained clear of ,any en- J lements wllh World Peace organizations..ring the Roosevelt administration Borah' -has had much to defend and njuch -t' attack.1 Te Constitution is, to him, the 'supreme achievement and the final authority in settling the right of fhe government in aiding the fafiper or curtailing production, both'administrative measures opposed by Borah-.: A New Dealer for years, Borah toured th country last summer in an attack on NRA, th screen behind which monopolieshe hates the corporationwel'e slowly driving the "little man out of business. He has fought for. economy in government, vehemently opposing the. rise of bureaucracy in Washington. . Liberal, or just stubborn, he backed the Liberty League as a means of preserving economic-freedom Th/s bulging bundle of inconsistencies, with the broad brow.-stern eyes, cleft chin and thin, firm lips, Is a shrewd politician which may account for the chameleon-like character of his political cloak. No leader, unable to organize or co-operate, he plays a lone hand, which may result in his defending the present administration today and attacking it tomorrow. But liis eloquence and his ready response for copy have.made him a-national figure. ''When the Chair .recognizes the - senior .Senator from Idaho.-senators liurry from cloak rooms and visitors; and correspondents In the galleries lean-forward expectantly.' In a'valce somewhat- more mellow than, for-' inerly.-6he.. lion of Idahohe once nearly, joined; a .Shal<apavlan troupethunders out his .soli iloqify the greatest deliberative body-in the! world, certain that no bit player will., steat his spotlight. In his office in the Senate! bulldiug or in the-dingy room in Boise he is.-.a^ personality, if not a great figure, in Amcricaiif
WHAT IS BEING SAID
..The nations are not walking in the ways of peace, but the dangerous roads leading to war.'I would not call myself a pessimist, but I feel, it times that I am living in a madlio.u^e. -Tliisl
mamenis.. and I would, stick , to Germany that subject until she has told us straight that she will not have anything to do with it.
v'lb A *MIOUbto
schedule of schbol work. In its diversification of interests; and as a rest from the drudge of continual cramming, it appears more as a valuable aid t- scholastic attainments, in overstudy and stagnation.. Thus there appears to b< mum' line governing' the ej dent's outside-work. - If the time devoted to the outslde.-interests exceeds a certain .limit-that-.-.activity- tends. to become a. ; drawback to. thestudentswork. but- if-- these outside interests are kept below the
student can be prescribed by himself: only nts 1 own experience ana . diagnosis of the effects of his extra-cur-'
safe j
- The effects of student employment  on -the-students.scholasttciwork can.be good, or bad. dependtog-upon the restrictions Imposed by the studentJAMBS SHABSAU6H.
On Second 
Thouglit
By Emily Kramer
been discussed - and' re-discussed from th point of view of administration, of faculty, and of students,
whole--were really conscious of
be rlgbtfully considered ment ..or the communityand not merely In a.figurative sense. Since teachers are supported in large part iy '.public taxes, although not rtfways directly, they can be regarded as a real investment to be .used to the best possible advantage. Society ' provides the means of training , for teachers, and society must'eapect-some.return for this provision.
-Use For Common GoodJust as society seeks to preserve and utilize natural resources 'best .possible, way, so it mui.__elder the specialized training of teachers, as a esource to be used for the common good.
If this is true, then intelligent public opinion must insist on academic freedomnot for the sake of the faculty alone, nor the sake of. the students, the sake of society as a whole. No one.cun depy .tbe fact that teachers play eri essential part In modern life, that their knowledge and training are of somu value. Thei no reason, then, why the public should not expect to have the right to derive the full-benefit of whatever specialized knowledge teachers may have gained. There should be no necessity for telling Universities not to intsrfere with state- mente ot faculty members, no matter what thclr implications.
One may say further that it is not enough merely to desire-that Universities cease to restrain professors, but that it Is the dutyofthu faculty to demand immunity from censure much in the same way that members of Congress possess immunity.. There is a definite need for a body of men who are free to tell the truth,latteiof :This, does not mean, of course, that teachers on .the whole,Individuals, are' extraordinarily wise or saintly. They are, however, trained in one'or several particular. branches of'knowledge and would be willing to impart to the community what they perceive tc be true, but only -if they were assured of their right to speak freely.
- Must Risk Demaaooues 
There :are. amoqg' teachers , as among: any. representative . group some; who'- a're: fanatical, some, who are .[demagogues,;.but one.must .th^'rtsk'i^^ermlttiligiii'eeaom-; fewvsuch inen. for the.s.ake of the benefits! theV community will deri'
th.e'j,does not. nian'thatSenalora should b6 denied the'right 'to' siy what they please. .
..-' .There are at present a. few dividual teachers .and students who atfe/ wiHlng to sacrifice themselves forvthe .sak$ of being honest! intellectually honest; but it Is unreason-artyrdoni <able'a large scale. There would he -need for! such self-sacrifice, if the -people were Intelligent enough to realise that in . making it possible
best interests of the community it:ompIete-academic fre'ethat of.va: particular group; which
WINTER , CARNIVAL CHANGED 
-TO-SWIMMIN MEET 
 Syracuse University.-^ (MCEA.1 Culminating a long and severe 
^!ctejr' i?ith hayy.snow, comes the nnotincment that.the.annual winter .carnival will have to be post- rponed because of lack of snow.-For ,the: past week rains -have washed laway all traces of winter and; aftei [considering changing .the
' Anti-War Meeting 
: . Draws 350 People
the CCC canips'. Into kindergartens tor w; !We. consider that the subjection of the student-body in universities i military draining is of doubtful :educationdl value and a menace to -democratic principles.: r.rlt is the sense of this meeting ithat:m view of our- pledge of tinned:- support and. cooperation with: .other groups. It will be dereceive - and transm it communica- tions: ajnopg students on war and related subjects, and help prepare for-; the National Studeht congress
.UkBGSST SELECTION OP . PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED TYPEWRITERS 4 $1495 to $76.00Utanl Tema Free Trial I?^iNT A TYPEWRITER ^riM&nM^ontba. Rental ApplLw
rfpORTPITT TYPEWRITER CO.-f.i;-l^'444-LlEElTT- AVENUE
The.:Skibo Hobo
IN CASE YOU MISSED it, the Anti-War .Demonstration Inspired 
and amused a packed house'last'Friday - . . Chairman Pendle
ton apparently wasnt convinced that all those present attended 
for the advancement of Peace . . just to be on the safe side 
Official Bouncers Hudson, Croft, Splsak, etc., were stationed at 
points of vantage throughout the room .. but they failed to 
reprimand Voskamp, Kuhn, Lyne, and others who'heckled Dr. 
Clausen with a steady undertone in the back of the hall  . . 
those who came in the hop^s of excitment were partially satis
fied by Soldler-of-Fortune Ackleys charge that both sides of the 
question had not been presented . . . wily little Phil Morrison, 
who played slooge throughout thei entire meeting with his mc^ 
tions to do this and that (as rehearsed), suggested that Mr.! 
Ackley lighten the audience with his views on preparedness .... 
but the man who pounds the drum with such abandon was not to 
be scared down, and amid the flashings of the many photograph-' 
eti, Kampus -King marched up to the pulpit, for the sake of the. 
Army . . . truest remark was the confession that one of. the
- purposes of the R. O: T. C; Is to instruct the Army men so that 
in case of war they can teach the men who do the actual fighting 
. . . moral; you. might gather that R. O. T. C. training is the 
best way to guarantee that you'll die in bed . . . maybe the 
Army boys are the wise ones after all.
THE CLUBS ARE SHAKING the hoof again ... the Betas had 
a Formal Douce Friday at Longview . . , very nice affair with 
everyone much happier while away from that restraining influtence of house rules . . . a. lot of the boys.got off to a swell 
start in the afternoon . . . better not mention any names ... 
Saturday was a bJg.day.for tbe.Delts with formal initiation, ban
quet, and a! Formal Dan'ce in the evenidg ... somebody bribed 
the orchestra at Gammons !Pub to -play a Delt song when they
- entered after the 'dance .' -'. that dancing of Hot-Foot Schleusener and Dolly Volkwein is fast becoming the talk of the towri 
... . so entertaining that-the management'asked him to. return
gratis.
CONGRATULATIONS to Owen Bowser . . . and a question: 
what did he feed the dorm men to make them turn out en masse 
with their votes? . . . and to Interfraternity. Council; what 
hypnotic qualities of the dorm men persuaded fourteen fraternity 
men to overrule tradition by electing the Intramural Mushball 
Manager from the dorms?
BECAUSE of-Jim "Ladies Man Heatleys novel method of intro
ducing his friends Lee Hammerschmldt has changed his name to 
Smith. And did Jims girl laugh!
TIP TO THE INTELLIGENTSIA: we recommend Dr. Schoens 
Moral Philosophy class for those who desire to learn the whys 
and wherefores, of life . . -comes in plain wrapper.
A NEW RECORD (or why girls'leave home) is set by A1 Ralston.
. . . three young ladies that A1 has dated in rotation for the 
past two years all got married wlthlu the past month to other 
guys . . . ask him to date your girl and see what happens.
IF YOU NOTICE some new athletic sweaters around the campus, 
its partly due to Kissels gumshoeing around the. A. A.- Offlceuntll they broke down-and agreed to get sweaters for the -soccer .
WE WONDER about the value of education when Informed that 
the short story course over at MMCC didnt produce anything 
that PI Delta-Epsllon thought worth accepting.
VERY FUNNY last week was the incongruous sight of Frank 
Stud Glolma, track captain, and self-styled he-man. strolling 
across tho campus and putting all that lung power of-his. Into the 
whistling of "On the Good Ship Lollipop.
THE WHITE-RIBBON SOCIETY has had several meetings re-' 
cently . . . youll probably hear more about them during Spring 
Carnival. -
Alumni News
Reports from the. workers of the ' membership' campa hv6started In March arealumni
coming into the Alumni Offi 
day and show that the drive foi u. creased membership for the Alnto. nl Federation Is being carried through enthusiastically.
The drive is being conducted br clans and .by . . -classes. . All aoo. members of tbe Federation who ere members of clan' groups tercd throughout' the eounlrj being solicited by .their o\vi_ ganizatlon where there are sufficient alumni to organize a clan, they, being solicited by tlieJr class mi ' bens. The campaign Is being c rled on a personal solicltaii.^ basis. Each clan treasurer beeu sent the names of his dan members who are not active men. bers of the association, and lie |q
rled out through the class groups, all Pittsburgh alumni being called
being written letters. To d: Canton Clan has shown the best results, having- secured a ninety cent paid membership.
All team captains and solicitors are urged to send the memberships secured to tbe Alumni Office promptly so that the records ot the campaign may be kept up-to-daie.
Attention is called to the' Annual Exhibition on April 2G. The, alumni'are invited to attend.
The guest speakers ! Professor'Htfrry S. Hower, Dr. Charles Watkins, acting president, and Dr. Frank B. Jewett who is a tniBtee of the Institute, Vice President of the American Telephone-and Telegraph Company and President ol the Boll Telephone laboratories. Fracis Keally, Arts class of 1912 was the toastmaster.
Professor Hower gave an Inllgaln his health. Dr!.. Jewett spoke on the activities of the trustees aod their viewpoint with respect to the introduction of ^scientific re-, search work into tl\P. program ol- the Institute and the value of such activities In stimulating constructive work on  the part of under-' graduates. He also gave a very Interesting account of the history ot tbe development of transcontinental telephone service which was made possible by the Invention In the Bell Telephone laboratories of vacuum tube amplifiers.
Arthur F. Le'et presided <
bllity for initiating'and arranging
The following alumni were efected to the executive committee for the comJohn M.:M)ohstream, Chairman, 9. Ruth Pontius, M! M.Joe .Whitney Dlckman, M. M. Francis Keally, A.C. F. Hoban, S. 
hy i& Hog-neuter?
MZ Ol/ Cyo//
When Horace Hippohoof drops one of bis \rockcrushers on Ermintrude Muggins dainty instep... 
Ermie eiinply grips the injured dog in one hand 
aud a sympathetic Old Cold in the other. Old 
Goia has t talent for soothing stepped-oii feelings.
AT TRYING TIMES___TRY A Smooth OLD pOLD
ita.

---------------------------------------------------

THE / 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
 
Wr iteer sRowA
THERE IS AN ANCIENT ADAGE well known to journalistic, sages 
l0tds that one may hot qualify es 'master ssrlbe until he Is 
the object of an anonymous letter of malevolence. | wish It 
iown that I am now a qualified, master scribe.
, 'tie true. I lately assumed.this one requisite, and even though 
ipparent, from a casual perusal of the unsigned malicious manthat my benefactor/reads little of the sports page and com* 
Is missive on utterly false premises. In almost every consldI wish to thank him and to suggest .that | would like'the
pleasure of his acquaintance.
jjfCLEMENT WEATHER LEAVES SUNDAY'S SCRIBES ratlier at a 
[or material. Saturdays big scrimmage was postponed, as was 
track meet wilb the local Kay club, the latter quite indefinitely. 
Thursday saw the gridders In scrimmage, however, with emphasis 
lie liming and execution of a variety of plays. Little system was 
apparent, and frosh, sophs, etc., were all put In together and tried out 
different positions. Brittle Anderson sprained his ankle,
NEITHER THE MUSHBALL FIELD NOR THE TRACK are conditioned 
as yet. Mr. Rlsedorph hoped to get the ball field Into shape over the 
ek-end, but this activity, he had to postpone until this week, and it 
probable that the conditioning of the field will not be complete until 
e end of Easter vacation.,. This will necessitate postponement .of 
e mushball-games scheduled for the first of this week until the latter 
part of next week.
DINGER HAS FOUND SUBSTITUTES for track managing In the Tarige artists. It is difficult to conceive of the basketball candiearnestly raking stones from the cinder path, but that is what 
Ibey bave been doing. They receive a certain amount of recreational 
mess every time the star sophomore looper, -Andy Kriiscber, drives 
tirn-ith the tractorhe almost always gets a load of passengers for-a 
jauoL down the field.
[an AMOUNT: OF DISCUSSION IN INTERFRATERNITY council 
neeting has been dovoted to' the possibility of additional sports com
petition In the Intramual field. Tennis, ping-pong, track and touch 
Lball have been suggested. Tennis will be rather Impossible In 
epring because the courts will be kept pretty busy by the frosh and 
sity candidates. Incidentally, H. C. Bourns, who played' tennis for 
Carnegie In 1924 and for Pitt In 26 and '27, later a pro, has been added 
the Carnegte athletic staff as conch of the freshman tennl6 team. 
Getting back to the Intramural sports activities, I' recall the efforts 
three yeara.^ago which attempted' to execute track, competition be* 
een the fraternities. The final meet was a wow, but there were so 
iv organizations which could boast of enough talent to produce a 
am which could exbiike th various tra'ck and field events that the 
;a waa abandoned for'future years. I believe this same argument still 
Ids true. As for touch football, the mushball field and bowl will be 
pretty active for th rest of this year. But for next year the proposlion is capitaland I'know of no organization-which would not enjoy 
i snappy touch tournament.
Ping-pong has (numerable supporters In all fraternities arid dormlories, and from the number of Old Golds being consumed by several 
F the organizations, there's many an eye out for the prize ping-pong 
table which Is being competed .for'In this novel manner. The- Dftlt 
ri the PItr'cmpus'hve th~ftnvia1>le'system?'-'They set-^datly 
quota of empty packs for the freshmen, and the-.poor plebes-epend the 
day searching through rubbish cans -and In the streets.. And .this suge possibility of a Pltt-Teeh ping-pong contest, Heres  sport 
t possibilities.'1
irther possibility for Intramural competition Is Badminton,'of 
which popularity Is spreading throughout this country like wlld.fire.
nlng a-game as might-be'wished fojy*and< Jt does-not 
require the reserves of-a large organization, persona Interested might' 
f with Mr. Moses In the gym.
RIFLE REPORTS .ON THE NATIONAL SHOOT have been released, 
authoritatively, placing Carnegie eighth and Pitt ninth, the latter five 
points behind fthe Tartans. As previously reported, Navy 
championship again this year-. Cornell placed second and Drezel In
stitute third.
TO BE COMMENDED ARE THE FOLLOWING: Amy Thomseen, Inr Design ca<ed, for her activity as assistant manager of the Junior 
Architects mushball team and her earnest efforts to make a ptace on 
he team; BID Kulesz, for.hls boding, activities, -recently .awarded .a 
gold glove and a gold/conference medal; At Broadhead for hi6 activ
ity on the rifle team which has resulted in his election as captaln of 
thfcteam; Mort Leavitt for* his slde-stltching diving exhibition at the 
W. A.. A. swim test; - the instructors who djsmiss afternoon classes on 
Wednesday, to the CQnvenlen.ee of the..baseball fans.
^ijle Captain-elect 
Interviewed on Radio
roadliead, who was recently 
^fcted captain of the Carnegie 
ch varsity riile team, will be inviewed by Jerry (Hanson, Tar**1 sports editor, tomorrow  eve- ;'nB on me Tartan. Quarter Hour.Hie Quarter Hour program will be*7:. : . , '
^r. Droadhead la brought to. the , as a representative and leader wihe rifle team; whlch.ii one of Urnesies few. claims Co fame iu ih sport3 world. . Thex interview R1'l release to the- Tartan sports _a5s Mr, Broadli.eads'persdii&l com? on the prospects for the oi, arid highl
Trackers Face 
P. i A. Sat.
Kulesz Awarded Gold Glove 
For Ta rtan Mitt Activ it y
Speed Trials Tonight; 
Practice Continues
The meet which was to have 
been held between the Tavtan var
sity aod the Kay Club last Satur
day, was called off, due to had 
weather. The; unexpected spring 
ralus and suow made It impossible 
to carry the meet out as scheduled. 
This meet was to have been only apractice meet, so that the regular 
Intercollegiate competition has not benn affccted.
The second practice meet on the 
schedule comes nest Saturday, against the P. A. A. For several years, the Plaid outfit has met the representatives of the P. A. A. prior to the regular collegiate competition. The meet this year comes during the Easter vacation, but due to the fact that the majority of the fellows on the team live In Pittsburgh and the immediate vi* cinty, the strength of the team will not be. noticeably weakened by the absences due 't'o" the va'Catlon.
Tills afternoon, speed trials will be. held for all candidates for the varsity berths. So far this season,
lublieb just who will participate for the glory of Carnegie during the coming meets.
Thirty,Candidates 
Out for Tennis
Bourns, Pitt-Tech Alumnus, 
Signed tp Coach Frosh
Tartan proapectB of having a cessful tennis season Beem t good. S6rae thirty or more freBh- man and upperclassmen are working out daily in the gym getting themselves in shape for thoseason.  From these men 18 __finally be chosen to comprise the two squads which will represei Carnegie.
The loss of varsity players last year was not too great, and with the addition of several ble sophomores there should not be any tlceable weakness. Among tjie most notable of the new racquet- eers is Art Hughes, a. brilliant tittle player from Long Island. The Freshmen are under the new Frestiman coach, H. C. Bourns, who played with Tech in 1924 and Pitt in 1926 and 1927. Bourns has played professional tnnis for the past few years and has taught tils at-various clubs In the eastern part of the country.
The tennis schedule follows:
 April 2&DuquesneThere.
May 4Pnn StateThere. -May -8W. & J.Here.
Ir.tercollegiate Tourney 
Champ Given Special 
Carnegie Aicard
William Kulesz i.!35'- has-.recently 
been awarded, the Golden Glove by the Carnegie Athletic 'counell. This award Is only given to intercollegiate boxing -champions. Kulesz also received the gold-  Conference medal when he won: bis final lu (he Intercollegiate Conference at West Virginia several weeks- ago.
Kulesz has lost only two bouts iu his entire boxing career. He bag fought it) about ten collegiate and four amateur matches. He started boxing under Coach Ernie Sesto when he was a sophomore at Carnegie, but after, his first fight. In that year he was declared ineligible. That first fight was with a Duquesne contestant; he won it easily, and his being declared Ineligible was quite a' blow to ths Carnegie team. This year was Kulesz first lull season in the ring, and he was undefeated throughout. Allthe contestants he met this year were also undefeat- od, except for the losses to KuleB*.
-Coach Eddie Vacheress, of West Virginia, stated that' the' Tartan mlttmnn was not only the most outstanding boxer In the tournament and. for that matter. In the whole confercnce, but the cleverest fighter he ban ever seen fn his association with. West Virginia intercollegiate boxing activities.
Another outstanding Tavtan boxer is Bill Beal, who is .declared to be the brightest prospect for the rext season. Beal, besides being e iop-notch fighter is listed on tbe Carnegie honor roll with a 3.93 average. It 16 possible that Bill Beal will receive a scholarship for his excellent work at Carnegie. Iu the boxing activities Beal gave his outstanding performance against the captain of tho Catholic U. team.Ray Wisneivskl, 115-pouuder, after finishing his first year of ring activity Is already rated as the leading fighter of his clasB-In next -years conference. -For -pure-fighting spirit the Bmnll -Tartan mitt- man cannot be -beaten. In this year's match with Bucknell, Wia- newski tore a; ligament in his shoulder. He had a match a few days later with Captain Cuglla of
steamed furiously.' foi days, and went to West Virginia for the conference .fights. He got good shape, deReceives Award
William Kulesz, 35, who was recently awarded a golden glove by the Carnegie Athletic council winning the- 165-pound Eastern
Footballers Start 
! Spring Scrimmage
'Changes in Offensive Play 
I Indicate Faster Attack
\ Spring football practice, now in 
its fourth week, is beginning to 
show favorable signs for next year's 
gridiron season. Inclement leather 
of tbe last week has cut Into the 
schedule somewhat, but heavy 
work has been started. The first 
part of last week was spent in 
chalk talks and slgnat-drllls to preparetfte gridofen'for scr/mfnage. 
Thursday was the flrBt day of scrimmage and the lads Bpent all afternoon at It. There -was some confusion and th men are being shifted bround and tried out In different positions to determine the most efficient arrangement.
Tbe line has continued its offensive practicing and Joe Bach seems to be getting the new stuft across, though the hoys have been a little slow In catching ', on. However, progress In thlB department has been very; satisfactory. A great deal of emphasis 1b being.put on blocking ont tbe: secondary with play in the Urn
Ball Season 
OpensToday
Teams Poorly Practiced 
Due to Foul Weather
Today marks the- openlug of 
the iutramural mushball competition with the teams,* on the most part, unprepared tor 'this event. Extremely poor leather conditions have made any Intensive practice a rarity, and the teams can be excused for poor showings which will most likely take place. However, the boys are anxious to get started and can be expected provide many a thrill and perhaps
year to prevent Ulugal pitching. Specific rules concerning the delivery follow:.
The pitcher must:
Face the batsman.Have both feet In contact with the rubber.
C. Keep the hand below the hip
Womens Athletics
by Margie Green
full Btop wlth both
watching this season. Scholarship is not the only feature in.eligibility. Last season.it was ^discovered that en who were not members of particular fraternity, were playthis year to prevent any repetition of this occurence.
Games will be called at. &:30 p. .. on the dates scheduled. There must be at least seven men on the' field at that time to start the game. If 'this regulation is not observed,
The schedule for the first two days of play Is as follows:April .16: Scobell vs. Alpha Tau Omega; Delta; Tau Delta vs. McGill; Tau Delta Phi vs. Stgma Phi Epsilon; d!6i io Beta Sfgma Itho.April 23: Beta Theta PI vs. Sigma Nu; Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Slgm&Kappa; Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Scobell; Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta
After one month's delay, due .to 
the constant practice for the gym 
exhibition, volleyball' is at last 
getting under way today at 1 
As most of you probably know, this
ivery Tuesday of the week, with an extra period at 11:30 ou Tuesdays. Unless these times prove unsatisfactory, this schedule will remain permanent for the rest of the volleyball Beason.
After the Atmunl Awards party, which will take placo sometlino during'the first week of May, Car* nege coeds will have some distinction other than a red Cweu^ontflt, while strolllug nonchalantly about tbe campus. After several heated discussions, the womens athletic board, has finally agreed on an nil- white, all-wool sports jacket for the "one-lhuusand pointers In W. A. A. Though It Is not the Inst word in the popular, maunlsh, pleated-back style (which proba- hly will be out -of style by next
Jnupty, kick-around lines. Just the thlug for tho .all-around sporster for whom it was designed. - 'Tho material Is washable and the model will be a standard one.. You will. probably .eee some six or seven on campus this- Beason. all of which will bear the exclusive Tartan "C
I have noticed some ..early birds trying their skill against the elements on our now tennis court?. Tho wind makes tho gaine> about twice as exciting as it usually is,
ball. With the flrBt roal indication of balmy weather on Sunday many, enthusiasts are uncovering their' racquets with the Idea ot.getting . In practice for the approaching tournament. Put your reservations ' In enrly, because this is one-sport khlch is assured an advauce sell*
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
.6823 FORBES STREET
T
so macis
for so little!
It costs very litllo to telephone 
out of town* At night, for exnoiple, you can call 100 miles 
fr 35 cents*- Whet the call 
costa is a mere trifle compared 
to what its worth! Hearing 
the voices and sharing the 
news of distant friends 
home folks is next best to 
seeing them. t
Slalior to SlalioA. collf 3 
minute connection; after 
SiSO P. M. Standard Tima.
'Wa-llfi rifle
^l,cc of the dean of women keeps * tard index of the rooms for rent. X ftard describing

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE: TARTANA. TUESDAY, APRIL 16. 1935
THE CARNE GIE PLAID
Pgv dJld br NlcbtSchool atedent <
'Editorial dsg,*!1 t
- WILLIAM E. BASE GENEVIEVE SCBOLTZ 
 , AVID O. DAVIS
Activities
Records ebow that tbe scholastic standing ot students engaged hi activities is above tho average for the student body as a whole. It is Interesting to note the opinion of one of the leading Eastern colleges with regard to students engaged In extra-curricular activities.
, A Cow years ago, a processor at M. I. T. advised his students that tbe college course offered much more to the students who took part in activities than to those who did not. "Tho student who spent most  at his time with boohs/' he said, .misted the most essential part of education, that of making friendships fjuch as can be gained only by taking part, in activities.
Those who took no part in any activity but spent all of their time with books in an effort to attain high/scholastic rankings were tera- . ed- brown baggers a term applied to those who do nothing but study.
The wisdom of the professor's words has been proven by a recent survey of academic records. The study shows .timt students who take part in social functions, college publications and other phases of activties are averaging considerably higher than jhe general scholastic level. of the student 
body.
' Notably on the list of activity groups having definite superior - ranldnffe is the management of the Tech Engineering News. Other organizations and groups which attained enviable records were those . ii';chiarge of The . Benchmark,? an- n^al publication of the civil engineering summer damp; the ofSlcerB ojC. the combjned professional so- cities, the institute committee and .'Hie dormitory committee,' which has charge of' student government.
GRAD NEWS
. - . The following letter, which is of interest to the women attending Carnegie, was 'received from Mrs. Louise Goldman who. was president of- the Margaret Morrison class Of 
''1912.
much 1 enjoyed my visit to the Margaret Morrison school on my last .Visit to Pittsburgh twenty-three years after my graduation in 1912. 
: ;-But I cannot tell you .how keen .was .my disappointment at learning of. the discontinuation of the night class'in domestic science. I m sure Sf-.I.couldbut give a brief outline of the material' -benefits I have, received in these years since I left school, to say nothing of the happy hours I spent. ; while: attending, -many women, especially, in these
.class.as mine/in 112.
.  We had a class of fif^y. -women. and l ean remember., frateiy a night when - over thjee.-iotii.four. w.omen
 activitiesbut- we  did.-, have- little social affairs, among our own class members, such as skating on Schen- -ley lake after which we had lunch at a little old shack on the lake. . At the graduation- of our class we . voted a. close pin to the passing presidentbut whether this vote .was arrlett-through I cant sav. in .case;.It was, I would appreciate 7. eaid-.pmras th6. president of the class of 1912.
Iremember many visits of Andrew -Carnegie to tbb .echoo). and one ..talk Especially stands out.clear In my-memory| He congratulated the
on'this trip to the school for their many courtesies. I also send a'slnwb sophomores, although ?tbev .coaid not get out of Well Week, are going through It just for the - fun bf It.. AL one. said, It cjust once in. a lifetime/' - One of r,these boys is carrying around 112 -:%gga;- He gave no. long- ago trying
Historical Highlights 
...of...
Night Student Council
Class Dues As a Means 
Foi Semuiing Funds
Class dues or assessments were another means used by the night group to raise funds with which to conduct the social functions of tbe individual colleges.
The class dues were an additional assessment over tbe activities fee and no student was considered by iiis classmatesto be In good standing with the group until this fee had been paid. ^
The collection of the dues was sot very satisfactory on the whole although one college, 'Flue' Arts,
The night arts group met the
they employed *was to have the of- cers appoint representatives 'hose duty it was to contact each night student in his department nnd upon him the necessity ot supporting his school.
port given -by the nigbt Arts students in tbe payment of tbe class dues this college was able to liold parties frequently. They were not wholly dependent upon tbe activity fee, and were usually able to close the school year with a balance in their treasury.The officers of tbe Engineering college were less successful in their efforts as it was difficult to per- tuade the students to support them. The method used* to collect the I dues was to hold a meeting at the beginning of the school year and station men at tbe door, at the conclusion of the meeting, whose duty is to solicit the fund. It- was | not a very unsatisfactory system, which left them short of funds and consequently their major function (he (Engineering banquet was dependent upon the pro rata' nhare of the general activity fee and other sources. . The consequence was that the banquet suffered through lack of funds and balances were carried over to other years.In the College of Industries the least success of all was encounter- id In collecting any class dues and the practice became oVsolete. This college made no unified demands on Any of the general activity fee collected but functions held by departmental groups drew, on the fees ' time to time although, always leaving a balanace due the/college as a whole.  It was very difficult, to bring the night industries .men together for any kind of a major affair, as the registration was usually large, so-tbe, Interest In this college centered arouiid the various departmental groups.
Subjects Offered in 1935
Supplementary Session
May 6 to July S', inclusive, unless otherwise Indicated,
Any student who ' wishes Information or advice concerning his plans for the supplementary term should call at the Registrar's office.
A. Subjects In Degree Courses and Six-Year Certificate Courses 
Students following a degree program should schedule, one of the following subjects, in accordance with information ' on pages 39-62 of tbe 1934-35 Catalog of Night Courses:: 0109, 0110, C-351, C-40L, C-402, E-20,: E-21, E-43, or Shops (1-720, 1-740, 1-760, 1-760). E-21, E-43, and C-351 are offered only in alternate yfears;. 1-720, 1-740, 1-760, and 1-780, only every third year.
The work of the flTst term of C-109, C-110. 0351, C;401, 0402, E-20 and E-21 will be given'Crom May 6 to June 5; th&l ot the second term, from- June-frlo-July 5- The work pi. .the flrst term of'064, will extend from May 6 to June 19; that of the second term' from June 19' August-21 . The fees' marked * include-a $5-00 .laboratory .deposit materials fee.I. First Year Subjects 
2 Trigonometry, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 120 ($12).E-176b Gen. Chemistry, ree., 2nd term, M.P. 7:30-9:45, E. H. 216 ($9)E-176b Gen. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W. 7:30-10:30, E. H. 216, 21411)*  , . vII. Second Year Subjects /C-53b An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd Term, M-W-F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 205 (112) . .. . * C-401 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10-30, Ind. 345 ($26)*
C-109 C-110 C-351C-402 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. ii, both terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10:30, id. 345 ($26)* . Blue Print Reading, both terms.M.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 345 (?17)*: Slide Rule Practice, W. 7:00-10:00, Jnd. 346 ($6) . ?C-432 ' methods of Organizing and Teaching Drawing Courses, M.W.F^ 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26)* :Educational1 Measurements,' M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 245 ($12)C-462 1-720 ; 1-740 1-760 1-780
E-574Fuels, Combustion and Domestic Stokers, M.W. 7:30-9:30, May 6. to June 5, incl., M.H. 103 ($8)B. Subjects. In Vocational Courses For students who are planning to complete one of the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following subjects in mathematics,- physics, and mechanical drawing are offered. In each subject the work of the first term will be given from "May 6 to June 5; the work of the second term, from June 5 to July 5. Students, may register for the work of either term or for the work of both terms. The tuition fee for the work of both terms in any subject .is, $12; for the work of
Vocational Mathematics (E.K. 63)
 Tis Said
YHAT-the two Council members were beefin' last wepk be*' cauee there- wasn't enouoh-. chicken to go around'at the En- , glneers' banquet THAT- the- Blbehlnger twins  - have joined the ranks-of those <who;have lt~lt being  new car.-.THAT the-difference-between the two crooners at the banquet.' was that one had a bag over hie- arm,'the other had bags under
THAT 3 certain student Is promoting a> boxing :. hout between.two Council: members.THAT one of the Arts officers .became tifevflish-at-the banquet smoked ' a clgaret. The.
i Intolife again, hfe dap I ifcr lovfcs ti
student from - Jeannfcttfe;' .Pa; may be found In th'tabby-:.6f the Art building,'aftfer. bfebees,: every Friday night
the spot at the Engineers* ban-- quet . . . beef roast instead of chleken.THAT Mr. Hobe has hfs boys walking In circles every Friday evening.THAT this news will be verl* fied to those who send in the top oft a new -Chevrolet with a sales el Ip attached.
Hotel Webster Hall
CofFee Shop ...Spria*ennaaent I
A-;p ermanent that is | I smartlv modern.-'
95c to $10I
 We giv you tlie perma-1 nent rth&tv looks best on j ji : Try -ourvvery mod-, j i methods 
Foundry, Fri. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 123, 117 ($6)
' Plane Geometry A (Ind. 251)
In-102 Mechanical Drawing B (Ind. 319)In-103 Mechanical Drawing C (Ind. 319) ' C-423 Blue Print Reading^ see other sheet0425 -Slide' Rule Practice jC. Subjects in' the General Courses . .For' each. of the following, subjects, except Cn-26, the calendar lates, schedule hours, and tuition, fees are the same as t^ose of tbe ;ubjects listed above.- Cn-28 will continue for a period of thirteen weeks, May 6 to August 2; the work of tbe flrst term will be given from May 6 to June 19; that of the second term, from June 19 to August 2. The tuition fee for both terms of Cn-28 Is $18; for either alone, $9.Cn-29 Plane Geometry A,- sameas Cn-26, listed above Cn-127 - Elementary English Literature (Ind/ 127A) -E-97 Elementary Physics A (E.H. Ill)-J&98 Elementary Physics B .(E.H, 100). E-97-98 Elementary Physics. A-B; 1st term, same as E-97E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 2nd term, same as E-98 Cn-28 Algebra. B, May 6 to August 2. (iRd. 209) legist ration will, be'held during the week of April 29 to May 3 between ,7:00 and:00' and on- Monday. May 6. between 6:15 and 7:1R in the Registrar's Office. In registering, students should present their original registration- receipt card. Students who withdraw the first week-'rwill receive a refund of -tuition fee. less $2.00: no refund^ are made after the first week. Subiects with less than tferelve. registrants mav be-withdraws.
NIGHT LIGHTS
johnnv Scturko can be seen any ty.'fcoft .walking up and down Fifth avenuo'^dmiriog the-.new front he d^s!BDE^v'for..Nl8ley,s shoe store. Incidentally^ Jobtfnv -. was:,caught smoking .- cigars-.: last week, the young.wastrel!.- 
Among'the-better .witticisms of Mr. 'Reding, who lectured on "Air Conditionings- was the-statement that formal. dances needed more fr-coDditlonln? than informal ones, on "account of . the- Increased but*
ibie.for,m.tcfi^9/and'ctgarett4* -lighters :blmoBt<ca'UB^d.^'^l9^-'-v<.v;-:: Da.ve~X>avi9:ataren eo nard ibat hns glasses broke! There were-.321 paid admissions - * ' . They threw- nickels 'When', a newsboy %tood up and sang, but when Ed White sang hla solo, they leffed!
drained the swimming pool the nlng. thev found Bill Venflowers as a peace-offering, only to And the little woman had just come
those professors showed they could take it. when- the pretty show-girls dished it otit!
.Martha -Lincoln, one of the more innocent of us-, was. surprised to
Joe Tracht decided .tp fiive the rest of the council memhers:a treat and v/siteri the council room for tbe flrst time. In. three weeks : . . When last seen,. Mr. Tracht was wearing ch^cked pants. - 
When the-Instructor in public-- speaking ciass stated thpt in trials
legal case is heard, a lawyer should be a. member, etc.. E). E. McDer- molt -up and eweetly remarkg/-"And in the case of a murder . trial* Sir. do you'.really.think there ougdt to :be-,ajnqtderer on the Juryl"-' 
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriter*; all makes, Portables: ins Standarde;-sold, rented, r* paired. I*$3.t0 onV 7 minlh, $10.00 five months.American Writing Machine Company601 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIafttJc 5489
Bee onr School representative DICK HAMMOND
STYLED
ior
SPRING
Youre really fit*** 
for sprmg when we 
have styled your hair 
to harmonize with 
youi new hat or 
Spring dress.
Our styles are vours;
.Phone, for-appointment"
Jackson 9774
cTHolla Beauty Parlor
Engineers Banquet 
Is Great Success
New Record for Attendance 
Is Set at Annual Affair
The twentieth annual night Col
lege of Engineering: -banquet wos 
held last Saturday evening, April 6, 
at tbe Webster Hall hotel. All rec
ords for attendance were broken 
and without a- doubt It was one of 
the best banquets ever held by that
.. The attendance included mem
bers of the Administrative' faculty^ 
members of the Nigbt Student council, members of the Engineering faculty, and students from the three night colleges. Short. talks 
were presented by the officers of 
Engineering college, . Dr. Jones, 
head of ,the College of Engineering, 
Prof, Leighou, head of the night 
summer courses. Coach Howard 
Harpster, Mr. McKelway and Mr. 
Sklnkle who was one of the group 
that held the first banquet in 1912.
Several prizes were awarded to the holders of lucky numbers.
Rush* and Robert Woods cipients 'of hnnd books on Shapes had Fractures' and "Making. Shaping and Treatment of Steel/' fbe
Paul Mllsham a flrst year student in the Industries college.
A serviceable leather letter car- ier, with, the name of the College and date stamped on the front, was to each one as a souvenir. In addition, novelties and noise mak- distributed. Entertainment during the dinner was provided by >an orchestra which played oldtime melodies. '
Aftev the dinner and speeches by e guests a novel and talented
did floor shi Featuring the sho<
the Chicago worlds fair fai
,Banquet Ticket ' 
Returns Requested
According to Council
still due from a tew dents. As the time remain. Ing in the school year j. * rt, a request is made tbac
The accounts for this function caunot be. closed until these returns are made. AH. returns must be made before one Is eligible to receive an. activities award or a Bcholafto Box 136, C. . .T. post office or at the-Council office.
DancePlanned 
By Fraternity
Nu Sigma Alpha Gives 
Annual Event Sat.
S T U D E N T S INVITED
Elmer Gitzen and Hie Band 
Will Furnish Music
Final arrangements have been 
made"fot the annual spring-dance 
sponsored by Nu Sigma. Alpha, 
night honorary ' fraternity, which 
will be held in Thistle hall on tlio evening of Saturday, April 20.
Elmer Gitzen and his orchestra 
have been engaged .to furnish.the 
music for this occasion. This group 
of musicians, which needs no intro
duction, has played for several fra
ternity dances as well as for one of 
tbe night student, council affairs.
The committee,, composed of A. 
W. Bluenile, J. A. Bray, E. W. Drensen, R. I. Krek, and P. Sparrow, 
have been busy planning for this 
event.
dial Invitation is accordingly extended to all students of Carnegie. The assessment is placed at: dollar per couple.
Why do so.;inany people, .attend lootbalr gamSs^? A profess'or it the New River State College gave .the following opinion to one of. hie classes: "One-half go to see the band. The boys go to see the girls and the girls go to see what the other girls are .wearing.
m
T. J1g\C.s Jgi1.HiA
.ovely galil... the greatett pair of Clinging
HIGGINS' 
DRAWING BOARD 
& LIBRARY PAST
PeoplesPitlsburgh 
Trust Co.
Ca&sd Braah
Fortob and Meyfan
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
J*
IK THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITf
New Appointments To 
Plaid Staff Name{I
.At the. .regtilpx meeting of the night;- fctfident cCHiiicjr which was held, April.;,7, several;changes were mode in the personnel of tbe Plai3 staff due ..to recent resignations.Oh the recommohdation of the editor, :tbe following 'students were appointed to. the stall: Edward -F.' White; who has been: serving as an Associate', editor- was- appointed News editor,.^llUani.E. Hake who has been an Associate editor retains that capacity, Genevieve Scholtz and David O. Da,vls who have preylouHiy been listed as contributors, were appointed Associate .editors. . ,Thf new staff fnembers will serve during the balance of the school 'year. ,As far as can be ascertained. Miss Scholtz, who lias been working
Final N. S. C. Danme T< 
Be Held Sat., May 4
Final ammgementa are . beln, completed Tor-th 
lege dance which will be held h tbe Night Student council !R Sa* urday, May 4, in Thistle hall. event will bring to a close the enr rent social calendar of the Nigbt group.
Will Click has been cboeen |0: furnish the music for the occasion This will be: Mr. Clicks second ai pearance at a. Night Student conn ell function during the present school year, and judging from th8 ovation which h and his orcbes(n received on their initial appear" A- poster, contest is being, held b conjunction' with this affair. Ever? registered night student is eligible and can submit as- many posters of any design as he cares to. Posiera must advertise name of function
Save 50% on 
High Grade Shoes
FOB
Discriminating Men and Women 
Hand Lasted Shoes
Mens size 5 to 14 . . . aaaa to EE 
Values to $22.50
$4 to $6.75
Womens sizes 1 to 12 . . . aaaa to C 
Values to $18.50
$4- arid
Littles Shoe Store
5850 Forbes Street - Pittsburgh, Pa.
Squirrel Hill
It will be home 
I will!"as soon as
Railway Express will get it there quickly and 
safely  and economically. Send your baggage,
. trunks, personal belongings home from college 
thlb bure, easy Way. Pick up and delivery service 
in all important dues And towns Without fttrt 
charge, ifilephott your local Railway .Express 
-. Agent/or. servjc^<or.:ipfonnatipn.
. . Tbe best there is jti transportation
MingBio ardSpss
agency Inc. 
NATION-WIDE. \ RAIL-AIR SERVJCf
