Meii mist be at liberty to saT in print.whatever they; 
h/ve Ui mind to eay, proi 1 wrongs up. one. 
-CHARLES A. DAN*Catrnedie I
VOL. 29, NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY H. 1935
raternities 
present Next
years Rules 
'or Approval
ew Changes in Present 
Rushing Rules Made 
For Fall Term
(USHING TO BEGIN 
ATER THAN USUAL
^[ministration 'Would Not 
,1 Jatify Kecjuest to Have 
Season in October
rnlemHr iiistinE rules lor nesl 
ear bave l,eeQ drawn up by the 'erfraiernitv council, and need niv Hie avinoval of the adminis- raiion before becoming official. :n difficulty Is'expected in obtain- - this approval. Next years Jfes involve no major changes In He rulos as used la6t year, the W chaiise ui any importance be- ' D5'(ho date on which rushing be\' ioiead of having the first period rl,cbing before Thanksgiving, ns &slieeii customary, rushing next a&fjf vill not beyln until December
Three Periods 
> rushing season' again shall $ * divided into three periods: a Hrtlricled rushing period, a con- ect period, and an open rushing Mrlod No rushing oi nny hind sill be permitted , from the begin- jlnK of school until the beginning rtthe first rushing period. 
e restricted period is to ex- <v__ from 11:30 o. m., December 2 lo 9:00 P. nv, December 6. Dates the rushees during tbe re- ui period shall be completely nnder the Jurisdiction of the Inter- aiernity council.
The contacting, or dating period 
Ijeglns at 10:00
assembled .[or instruction, dormitory rooms.
Open Rushing Dee. 10 The open rushing-season, b.egins 
i 4:30 p. nv, De'cember -10 -/ftnd; jnllnues until 12:3Qa,m., Dcerner 15. The rules governing the inie at which the rushees must be nt ot the fraternity houses, and out of the presence of fraternity
12:30 a. m., December 15 npt 8:30 m., December 17.. ' During this nee period rushees may pledge i fraternity by appearing at tbe se of their choice. Open rush- _ for the remainder of the season shall prevail after the expiration ? the silence period.
The remainder of the rushing lie are identical with last years reles.
The original plans of the Inter- Iraiernity council for next-year's rushing called for the moving of rushing up to the first week of
dmiofstration and had
Alumni Open 
Membership 
Drive Today
Seniors Who Join Before 
Commencement Given 
Special Rates
Senior Farewell 
Set for . May 21
Margaret Morrison Senate 
Will Introduce Officers
The !Uar?arefc Morrison Senate 11 hoid a Senior Farewell assem y on May 21, in the Margaret Mrsoli Assembly room. At this as- Eembiy the outgoing seniors- wtll meet will) the underclassmen for time. Dr. Watklus, preslolass. will spealf;
President of the junior class, will also address the seniors.
Tlie officers of next years Senate will ))e introduced to the school ie. The incoming Senate... Mavfearet Shultz, presi-Bi; Hetty Mackey, vice president; Helen Stulei), secretary; Katherine Shrelbeis, treasurer; j^liy Crillinan, ..senior repreaenla- Hoien McCrea, junior
W* Alumnae Give 
Annual Theater Party
s!a>' 20, in the Little Thateh The *** entitled Nice 'People,'Vis by tachel Crothers. This, party will f ose (lie social season of tlie asso-'' datino.
Dr. Thomas Baker, Dr. and Mrs.- paries Katkins, Mrs.AnnaPMl- FJl> Miss Mary Watson Greet), and  Andrews liaVe' been Meim as special guest*.
J[rs. si Gillespie (Virginia Sei- ft), is chaivman. Tickets may be obtained by sending a stamped 
^i-adrireased. : envelope to Mrs. lllepl*. 552' Bryant street. Only -bei* -will be given'to a perlaunched on the campus today when some eighty-four seniors, representing all departments of Carnegie, will begin th- solicitation of member ot their class in an effort to have every member of the senior; class join the Carnegie
ried out in this campaign in ous years seniors representing every department of the college, have been selected by the senior class officers to solicit the members of their department for membership before graduation.
As in past years the Federation has made a special rate on dues for seniors. Those who join the Alumni Federation before Commencement, will be entitled to the full privileges of the association at the rate of 1.50 for the fiscnl year beginning July 1, 1935. This membership rate is just one half the. regular rate of ?3.00. Paid membership entitles the alumnus to receive the Tartan, and all alumni information and publications, notices of alumni activities, such as home-coming. reunions, classparties, bridges, smokers, dances, and football ticket information.
Perhaps n resume of the history of the Alumni Federation Avili he Interesting to the members of the Twenty-seven yearsago the first class: graduated
ntained by the four colics of the school.
In 1917 the need was felt for a central organization representing
the four college groups ratified constitution and by-laws. The official representatives, constituting (Continued on Page Four)
Architects Hold 
AnnualDinner
To Be Held at Carnegie Inn; 
Medals To Be Presented
Tlie presentation of two scholar- ship medals will feature tbe annual Architects Dinner to be ' held at Carnegie-lnu. May, 20, with the /acuity of the Architectural Departictlng !i hosts to graduating
Francis O'Connor Church 35 will receive the American Institute of Architects' Student Medal fov general high scholarships. Henry Anthony Jandl, architectural graduate, will be presented the Alpha Jlho Chi Medal for professional leadership and high scholastic at
tainment.
Included in those attending an? students receiving the Bachelor Degree, the Master Degree, and the Kight -School certificate. Guests of the Institute Include members of the Pittsburgh chapter of the American Institute of Architects who have contributed lectures on "Practice' of Architecture" during tbe school year.
Sneakers at the dinner.'are: Mr. Henry Hornbostel, one of the counties ablest and best known; architects; Professor Camille Grapiu, department ot Design;. Mr. Harvey- A/Schwab, presidont of . the, Pittsburgh chapter of the American Institute of Architects; and Mr. Frederick Bigger, nationally known architect in city planuing and hous
ing.
A rts Fresli men Spo nsor 
__ Breakfast-dance Fri*
A breakfastdauce for the freshmen of the College of Fine Arts is being given in the Continental room of the -Schenley Hotel this Friday evening from 10 to 1 oclock. Breakfast will he served at 12:30. Will Rvshanek and his^orchestra 
will provide the imislc.
The Arts' freshmen - in charge _.-e Allan Alpern, chairman, Jane Ferguson, assistant chairman, Horace Blue, tickets, flcrenco Inghram, refreshments, and Robert
)B, eilUUUl um tu a I',Tickets ave $1.76 a couple.. Only v,ie of the couple need be an Al ta' 
freshman.  . : ___
I Campus Broadcast
Today over radio station WWSW fiai'nejri presents Priscilla Lons, Departm et ~ fr:MUai c; -whir -will play several violin selections. The 
proTahi begins at.1:30: . - Thursday - Clyde English, will broadcast , a program .ot oigan music .originating at the consol- of the Little Theater organ. The fifteen- minute  program ..starts . at
The Carnegie Taj tan Quarter Hour will be on the air, Friday at 7*16- featuring  Helen Jayne, the Scotch Ladsiee, and a dramatic play by Jane Francy and Vlncent Maa- selll' entitled a ."Scottish Court 
ship
1^5 Campus 
H onoraries
Issue Galls
170 Students Received 
Bids at Exercises 
Last Saturday
NEW INTRAMURAL 
BOARD IS NAMED
Fred Dubin, Harold Corning, 
D. C. Taylor, W. Davis, 
Guide Athletics
One huudrecl and seventy Carnegie students were called to tha ranks of sixteen campus honoraries last Saturday at th annual call dnv exercises. The organizations, which include the five class honoraries. two journalistic honornrieg, engineering honoraries, professional fraternities, arid Phi Kappa Phi, scholastic honoraries, officially welcomed their new members and gave them their recognition ribbons and flowers.
The intramural Board, which Js changed entirely each year, also mnde its cnll at this time.
DRAGON
D- VCWEVNf 'l'
^ SCTMITAR^.^ ^ 
(Continued on Page Two)
W, A.A. Appoints 
Board Members
tion announced .the appointment of
the coming year to take the platee of Senior retiring women, at the annua! awards party held on Wednesday. May 1. Betty Kenny '3ft will be basketball manager. Jane Tlernan 37 will manage hockey; Dolores Thompson '36 will supervise valley ball, and EleanorLowrey 3B will take cat e of archery. ; .
Th senior members leaving the staff are Margaret Watters, president; Catherine Conti, vice president; Mary Warner, basketball manager; Jayne Henderson; booking manager; and Elizabeth Lowrey,. volteyball manager.
All the other board members on the staff, will he retained next year,-but some will serve-ln different capacities than at present. The other managers are Agnes Stephens, bowling;. Sally Crillman,
tha Lou Fuller, outing club.At the awards party, sweaters with Cs were given to.Jhe girls having 1,003 or more points; pirs were awarded to those having SOO points; and numerals, were given to those having 400 points. ; 
Francis Giolma Is Named 
Most Promising Engineer
Dr. Watkins Introduces 
Victor to Students, 
Presents Award
Mr. Giolma to. th student.;body spoke ' of the high qualities which, a person must possess In order to gain the distinction of the -ideal engineer on the cnmpus.
This award is made anuually by the local chapter or Theta Tau, national professional engineering fraternity, to the senior who in the opinion oi a fnculty committee appointed by Dr. Jones, director of the College of Engineering, is the
Mr. .Giolma Is a student in the Department of Electrical Engineering. He is captain of the varsity track team, a member of Tau Beta Pi, national engineering honorary, and president of the Carnegie Cosmopolitan club. Last fall he was captain of the Cross-country team.Mr. Giolma came to Pittsburgh
Carnegie Prof. 
Elected H ead 
Of Civil Eng.
C. G. Dunnells Honored 
At A. S. C. E. Meeting; 
Serves One Year
Professor Clifford G. Dunnella;' 
Department of Building Construc
tion, was elected-President ot tho 
Pittsburgh section of thfc. Americnn;Society of Civil ' Engineers. He has beta: appointed " for
ahips, one . to to the UnlverCUfford G. Ounni 
Carnegie andi o 
sity of Pittsburgh^ Wallis Hamilton 
3E was announced as the Carnegie 
appointee at the meeting, since he 
was selected by th.j Cl^h F.nglneer- Ing. faculty as the student most deserving of the annual award.
. Professor Dunnells has already 
begun plans for the national meetng of tlie- American Society of
taking an active Interest in the chapter, Mr. Dunnells is a member of the prominent architectural firm of Hunting, Davis, and Dunnells. Professor Dunnells is also vice chairman of the Advisory com- ittee^of Y. M. C. A.; treasurer oithe Churchmen's club;
I People You Ought to Know...
j_____By Guy Hlferty, Jr. '
Miss Mary Elizabeth (Polly) Rowlcs, lending lady iii .tlie Bacchanalian Societys play, Shining Armour, which tba produced at the Davis theater, last Friday and Saturday evenings, is quite relieved and satisfied with the manner in which the audiences took to the play itself, and to the cast.. She explained that th cast of any play is usually very diubious about the niknner in which a student* audience will take to a play, and ' for this reason have many misglv- they themselves
ikeptlcal, Well-Show-Us-Somethlng altitude, and came out with nothing but whole-hearted praise for the work done in the production. We of the audience were'again impressed with the gusty, brittle humor 'displayed by the lead, Mias Rowlcs. who kept the place in an uproar for the goodly part ot the eveninsPolly, as everyone calls her, is a.graduate of Winchester school, in Pittsburgh, and a senior m the Drama Department.  and is a veteran of the Bacchanalian . shows. A charter member of the society, sho has appeared in all of the)r productions, including -Tar and Feathers, "Over the Coals, - -Love Is Not Important, :. and ; Shining Armour." In addition to belonging to this society.'she Is a membv of Beta Pi; social soronty, and a past
cular work, ancfadmits that-.shy has always had a sort of inferiority complex^ about . campus activities, never having had any desire -.to. mix in them; It is her belief that by participating In too many activities people are apt to malte. as many enemies as friends. 
Those of you who may: possible marvel at the ease with wbtch Pol- lv carries off comedy , all by herself may be tired of the reason
gifted with a pleasant, breezy sense of humor. She is at her best in humorous roles and is rapidly becoming an artist of the highest degree of excellence in that fleld. She admits that she is best fitted for comedy parts, preferably of the type
Polly has tried Shakespeare, which
she was mis-cast in Man and the passes. last year. it being this play which virtually made her doAnd a few odda and ends about her personality . .. . gets a numb feeling fifteen minytes-before curtain time . . . says she. wouldn't wish it on her worst enemy . .she has a photograhplc - memory . . -. learns lines easily . . . doesnt see how she rates'-this department V. . . doesn t realize that, a big shot
of theid, supposedly her own. won-t go near .her unless compelled to . . . he has adenoids anywav . . . to get back to Polly-. . . distinctly not temperamental . . .jn fact. Just tbe opposite . . : thinks the average fresliman dramats (boys especially iate stage-struck . . . she gets a huge .kick out of amusing appreciative audiences ;- . . such as Saturdays- . . . intends to act as a means of making a-livlng only . . . has no "high ideals" about- a career
school until entering the day school
Ideal engineer the committee .Kldered character us the sum of files moral chanicterlalice, ami embracing honesty, truthfulness, moral cleanliness) and temperance. The candidate had to prove to the sntisfnetion of the judges that he applying his good character In
JudRin.; Thdinte extended to include 'breadth of Interests, be active und enterprising, and be capable of doing a variety of things- well. His scholarship was taken to Indicate 'that lie was capable ot his chosen
; in
-in society by Inspiring others .through his example. He should -.Indicate cooperative disposition, i^heerfulness, and agreeablenesB, belelf controlled, mid 1) of tlio vulua
High School 
Classes Show 
Clever Work
Architecture, Sculpture, 
5 Music Departments 
Are Represented
J An exhibition of the work nc- .com'plisbed during the. year by high ^choor BUidents attending ihe Saturday morning dasBos oifcred by
morning, between (ho hours of 10:30 ad 12:30.
 The exhlbltlon wlU bo{me.of this type hold at Carnegie.
 .Professor Joseph-  Bailey Ellis. Head of the Department of Sculpture, will exhibit among his sho.w- Ing of these students original com- positions, four of which received prizes in the Scholastic Exhibition held between April 23iand,May 12
ing the past month in th Carnegie
Chester. She plans to study architecture at Carnegie next year.
Adolpb Diodos composition topk Second prie. Mr. Dtodo is a -stu- 'dnt of AU.iulppa High school. 
The Department of Sculpture
This
Music and Architecture eratlng with'-Professor Ellis In the high school . exhibition. In the Music Department, : the orchestra composed entirely of high school students of the Saturday morning
will present the "William Tell Overture by Rossini and the Carmen Suite" by Bizet. Miss Betty Plack, a Schenley High School student, will play i.s a piano solo VBIgoletlo Paraphrase by VerdJ.
 Prof.: W. -F.. Hitchens, head. of the Deparlment * of Architecture, >vill contribute as the major problem in high school work in his department. a design for a vacation house. The designing of this house included not only drawings, but also. it small; cavdboard model.
Graduate Ring Orders 
Taken At Alumni Office
Graduate rings nmj at the alumni office, ro nasium, any day from 1:30 to 4:30 (Saturday 3 to 12).. ./ 
Full payment or a- deposit of '$3:00 wlll.be required on all orders.Orders which arc paid for in full before May 24 will be distributed at .the alumni offl'-.e on,. June 7.hich- deposits have been be mailed.is.may order rings any time after grMuntlon hv communl- Cating with the alumni office.
Coming Events
garet Morneon Recreation Hall.,Friday10:00 p. m.Arts School Fresh- -mon.Sreakfast-dance. . Schen- ' ley Hotel. Sunday3:00-r-MorUv Board Mothers Tea . Recreation Hall.
Margaret Monuson Alumnae The*. . ater .Party-Nico People"  ' Litlle Theater. Architects' DinnerCarnegie Inn.
- 11:30Margaret Morrison Senate .. Senior - Farewell -Assembly  Margaret Morrison -Recreation Hall. 
Baccalaureate 
Speaker to Be 
Rev. Graham
Major-General Markbam 
Addresses Seniors 
At Graduation
SYRIA MOSQUE IS 
SCENE OF SERVICE
Commencement Ball Will Be 
Friday Evening, .Tune 7 
In Thistle Hall
Major-General Edwucd AT. Mark
ham, chief army engineer, will be 
the- guest speaker nt the Com
mencement exercises to he hoUl 
Monday morning. June 10, nl 10:SQ 
ill Syrlu Mosque, and Reverend 
Thomas Wesley Graham, l-)eun of the Grudunto School of Theology nt Oborlln College. M ill deliver the Sncculnurento sermon at the services which will tak i place in Carnegie Music Imlion Sunday evening. Juno 9 nt S:00.
Mujor-Genernl Markham, a gvndn- nte of the.United States Military
1B0D when he wns appointed ond nontenant of engineer. During the World war lit) orgnnized and commanded the 3fl3id engl- '3. and niter the signing of
.-upation. In' recent years he haB beon in charge of river and linrbor Improvements io the Detroit and Great Lakes region, in 1933 he wag appointed chief army engineer with
'speaker, is a graduate of Ottawa
mode)-/} youth, having served college preacher nod executive s<
United States and Canada. He hai also lectured at mnny student conferences -In . America nnd for th ^World-s *Stuntr Qhrl8lltrrir&3atRl(t*
The Commencement, ball will be held Friday evening, June 7 In In previous years
C. . A. Organizes 
On Annual Retreat
advances a i step forward. This spring the hlgh-llghts of the conference were delivered by our Internationally known speaker. Dr. Hugh Thomson Kerr. Dr. Kerrs theme was The Technique of Living." The discussions following his
faculty.
Dr. Kerrs remarks on the ideas presented to him will enable tlie Christian Association Cabinet to be more successful in their work on our campus next year.Althpngh the woods were damp, severtfi hiking parties were formed and moved out into the forest. '
At the installation- steak-feed, Robt. Coblentz '36, George Lam- berteon 37, and William Shaifer 38, assumed the offices of president, vice president and secretary, respectively. _ Their cabinet members-for the next year will be-Richard . Dennison, Harry Leathern, Clifton Boutelle, James Layton. Robert Hall, Frank Krelder; 'Richard Hammond, James Latta. J. Nel- Jones, Richard Byrne and Kenthe Installation services.
During the conference Dr. W. N. Jones gave a most interesting 'ail- dress on "The How, Not the Why
Prospects for Summer School Encouraging; New Courses'Added
Y.W.C. A. Hold 
Yearly Dinner 
Wed. At 4:30
Dr. Clausen Will Speak: 
Next Years OEcers 
To Be Installed
will bis tlie speakin- nt tlio Y. W. C. A. Installation dinner lo he hold tomorrow at 4:30 In Murnnret Morrison Recreation hall. Dr. Cluuson's talk will be u challenge (o the lenders nud members of the women's Chrlstinn association for next year. Since Dr. Clnu^en luis another o>- gugoment; those attending are risked to eomo promptly nt 4:30.
Louise E. Melxnor 3G, president of tho "Y; Ruth Nichols '37, 
Ing Dr. Cln)isen*s Inlk. The t Inut members, who will be install- pdwlth the offioor are: EmilyDumgurner '3C. Kalherlne CollUis '38, Uuth Rolli 37, Floronce McCul- longli 36, Snlly Crlllmnn 30, Virginia Matthews '3G, Helen Stivlon '37. Eugenia Rowland 38, Mando
'30, Botsy West '3.G, Betly Ha- thorne 30, Botty .Stuart 30, ond Mary weUncli '36.
The Y" cahinot for next year Is larger than formerly so that a larger group of representative Individuals may become moro actively Interosted, and thus, spread the Influence of the organization to a larger group of sLndenis;
The dinner which has been planned for tomorrow will; be the first Under the direction of the new officers. Evorvone Intorebted Is Invited whether sho has'been active as a *'Y,r member previously or not. The dinner Is planned as a pep
Mens Glee Club 
. Holds Banquet
Cheeseman Is New Manager; 
. William Work* Secretary
The annual.banquet of the Mens Glee club was held last Wednesday evening, May 6, in the Facalso th recipient; of many of the good-natured jests arising from, t. marriage. At the
age by EvaiiH Cheesman^the newly
Jjc a rather large, fiabys botti1.
The ofTiciirs elected .for'next
'37, assistant manager; and William Work 37, secretary.
THREE PAPERS TEN CENTS
the week at the Christian
Carnegie Going to Dogs; Students 
Steal Spoons; School Has Wine Cellar
I never knew till now column,- but do you know why. when you are at the Grill you must throw your cigarette ashes on the floor? Siniplv because.the.average life of an ash tl-ay introduced to that eating place
and saucers, cream jars, teapots
have set the-food administration, back $2.000. - ...Indeed, during our last snowfall, a dozen or so food trays /were'suddenly missing from their rack. It turned out later that "some of the boys>T-as the faculty would say. bad them over in the- park -using them as sleds.' < i .; But turning to more, constructive things: we learn now that Carnegie bas it own svme cellar: a perfectly equipped, layout except for the kegs, the bottles.-.and the wlne. lt Is located somewhere-under the expanse of the. Brown house. This fact should / prove a . tremendous boost for the Brown house actlvlties building drive.Looking over some o the other facts, "mis-lalneoiis" about the cam> pus; its hard to figure out whether NIghtwatchman Llska of Engineering hall has climbed the ladder of success or fallen from it. Anyhow. ? to five or-six years ago he v
Finally, In-reviewing the Campus Week-end one of the more Interesting highlights concerns an alumnus, a graduate last year of the Department of Electrical Engineering. This alumnus, returning to this ?'old school- for tlie vannual festivities." quietly let himself, jnto one of tho dormitory rooms with a master kv which he had acqnhed diirfngTiis student, days. ; All was going along smoothly and.happily, until another graduate. . likewise - returning :for the. Carnival,. was assigned and taken to tlie same room, only to And that- the-claim., had already been staked.-.:-Something was bound to kappenv-and. lt did. -. For just as quietly as he had crept into the room, so quletly were his clothes packed .up and locked, away- until
Surveying Courses Lead 
Registration Lists 
In Popularity
INDUSTRIAL TRIPS, 
SOCIAL . EVENTS SET
High School Scholarships 
Announced for Students 
Exhibiting Talent
Applications for the Summer 
School enrollment already, exceed capacity, according to Professor Robert S. Lelgliou, director of Ike summer session. Two . surveying.' courses to be given nr Camp Djivls, West Virginia..and one on the cam-' pus lead tho"; list in popularity1. Though the same courses tire ottered in September, the demand for admission in Jiine is now excep- tlo)ii)lly great.
Comprehensive courses in the, Cnllcpc of Engineering, the College;
1931) program. Summer course;. In MalhomatlcB, English, Medianica. Surveying, Druwing, Descriptive Geometry, Economico, Genomi; CUemistry, Pliyalcs, . Cominerclal. Law, Industrial History, Psychology, and related subjects Are ofriv ed by the College of Enginooring.
The Psychology of  Music,.', a course which )B available In only, two or three schools In the.country.; has beon. added to the summer ciu>. rlculum In th'Collge of-Fn'-ArU.; After a.two yec.r lapse the DuJerozo Eurythmles classes- are to bo continued. Drama ScJinol courses,-. Esthetics, and: acoustics of music; being, offered by the Departv;
isc-.s.- A, ' clcgred In Music Educa-:
A limited number of scholarships;, covering materials ond tuition ar; offered high school students who; have exhibited more than ordlnary - talent and have  bee od.by their art tench done superior work. '
Under the committee chalrmsn- Phip-ofProfe89o^'.H!^7vr^Mceullyv a pleasant summer - recreational program has .been. planned. It will Include Inspection trips to-some of the. great Industrial plants end to- ? various other points, of Intcrcst-iii'.. the Pittsburgh . district. : BveriiLff/ . trips to the.AHegheny Observatory,. :-; student dances. departmental luncheons, and an enlarged sport . program . are alsq planned- The flwlmmlng pool and tennis courts : . Nvill, be avallabie. for student use . na In former years. Further en-' nouncements of. plans will be made.In the Kiltie, - the summer session - weekly paper.
Short-storyContest 
Winner Named
Neal Vinsons Story Wine ; 
Pi Delta Epsilon Award
^Neal Vinson 3B senior in the ' Department .-of;-. Mechanical Engl-- neerlng : has. been named wlnner:of : : - the jecent short storv contest-spon-"'" sored by Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
Poi honorary. John Provost-0 waa runner-up in the contest and- slr tarbman *36 took thlfdV Place, joe jackaon Grins was title of the prize ^vlnnine-story-1 
The winner will Jiflve his :nriin^?"Inscribed on a cup which 
& P?ras<n <<* Pi Delta EiislIoh-SSS He .will also receive an individual'"^ 
award, as will the second and'third .v?" Prize winners. The prlzrwlhnlrig r; story will be published-In th next'- ies e of the P pppt 
.A great. .deal* of lntereet:'wa^ - < aroused by the contest.'- : Almost'1- Iweniy short-storJes wre "entered The torle were udged b Piofesaors Kirkpatrick and Lawler of.   the.English DepartmentMortarBoard Wi UBold 
Mothers3 Tea On Sun
Members of Mortar Board- ha- -: tloiiul womens honorary, society - 
will hold a Mother's.Ta next-Sin^'- <Uy aitovnoon-from a to fi ocloclt- ln Jiecreatlon hall. The.senior girlsi- of Margaret Morrisou and the' CcV-:'' lege of Fine Arts, are -invited-to-. bring their mothers to the tea -- ''i'- - ,;Mai-y Jane Provosti 'SB: is chair: : 
?ia" L<-l-e lea- Gusts.wtllinclude - M.ai-y Watson - Green.' Dean 't" me,. Miss Elth M. - WincIiester-:' head of the Department tarlai. Studies :. Mrs.1 g, ^ - Pattet- ''' son, head of .Forbea halli 'MrB'r G^r- -: trude : l^ vWood-Smlth.'. hd^fr^ Melloti unit;,and-Miss Emma SellpS Myers, head of Ced^r bfell -
TARTAN CORRECTION
Omitted in last weeks list ot new appointees to the' Tartan^fleiP "ioi staff, was the nnm-of TTontfie,''' B. M.elxner 36. who has'been.a^ i pointed to the poaltiott'-ot assistant-'- feature editor ^: Miss Meixner is tha newlv;.elect- ed president of the Y.-.W: C.,rA>c41^S inot. aud she, is a niembor ;of kai pa. Phi Delta sorority: vShai<wi president of her sophomore;. :&li and a member of- Cwenii the^l men s sophomore h^norary. ^ T'
W V N

---------------------------------------------------

'Published. weekly <
in^ftng 
..Ffc*cADVERTISING- MANAGER^j^rt P.^CrleneT. 
JUNIOR EDITORS: Loulae Boldj._ Alpha Blwk.ASSISTANT J^NAGING p>lTOR 
ihaid Bynw.
^rSrotWn[MluScrSe Schrelbelfc^An^Schwaxu.John Shew, Joseph Thomas, id Ruth Wpller._REPORTERS: ; Robert Chau, Belly **** BoJ?rt
Kinjrebnchcr,Sylvlft Odle.Rowlejid, Moi? Strnewly. Paul _ SPORTS STAFF: EURn.
Eleanor^ Lowrcr.Odle......_id,Mo.. ..........Straeulr. Paul Watson, Mary TS STAFF: Euisene Ferjcui, iRttB Hiudiw Kjcll LymAelm, Edwin Mul Paul Schwerte. John Weinberg.BUSINESS STAFF: Robert Aaron,Je* All on.Gartner. Frederick Herr. Jamee Layton.... McCulcheon. Herbert Mowowv Donald -I - Alexander Paul. Bernnrt Schlowman. W Shaffer. Danle) Supon. Dan Weller. Donald Za
CIRCULATION MANAGER: A. L. Gureho. TYPISTS: Helen Slckentarjwr. Mnry Lro Sch nySTAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue culler. Robert Robleoi
WhatlsAHead for the 
Honoraries?A
RB CARNEGIE honorary societies a cam
pus joke? Or do they live up to the 
ideals which were avowedly the purpose of 
their establishment?
On Saturday, sixteen honorary fluteriillies 
called 170 new members. What have we to 
. look forward to from this new group? Will 
. they take their keyS, wear their caps and 
dresses and then settle down to the smug 
state of inactivity that most of their prede
cessors have contented themselves with?
If prodding in these columns will awaken 
honorary societies to the realization that they 
-have obligations to discharge to tho student 
 body arid to the institution, then prod we will 
willingly, forcefully, and frequently.
When Student council admltB a new organi
zation to the campus it does so with the un
derstanding that the organization will he an 
asset, that it will be beneficial to the student, 
that it will improbe school spirit, and that its 
. activities will bring credit to Cornegie.' Have 
.these societies lived up to thfeir.; promises? 
In too many cases tbe answer is negative.
Have" honorary members lost sight of the 
. fact that they are presumably chosen for their 
.outstanding achievements in the class room 
and in extra-curricular activities? Are we not 
privileged to believe that a group of so-called 
leaders should bend their efforts toward increasihg school spirit, that they should build 
...up their organizations in a manner beneficial 
to the interests of those who are not among 
the chosen, and that they should put teeth and 
a backboue in their platforms so that those 
-.whom they-pledge will not be pall bearers but 
ijwlil support live issues in a society keenly 
alert to what should be done on the campus.
Class honoraries, we are told, contain the 
^ro.iVn. of campus leaders; Yet only: two'of 
these organizations make any . effort to dlspi.aythelr leadership and the activities of one 
. 'of .these societies have been an enshrouded by 
a vell of petty politics, tales of supposed graft, 
..and; centralization of student governing powers tlmt the constructive works of this group 
have been rendered practically nil by a whis
pering campaign. /
-;Which is the better for Carnegie, organiza
tions which sponsor many activities though 
."admittedly  they make many blunders, or or
ganizations which fail to assume any respon
sibility for promoting school interests? The 
answer is obvious. Nothing attempted notlv 
ine gained.
 Some months ago we understood that one
- class honorary had adopted a new method -of 
choosing its members. Here at last was a 
forward step. Yet on Saturday this organiza
tion .- completely' ignored its platform and re.vertea to an eacli-man-pick-a-man method. We 
rcan hardly recommend this system of select:. ir.&: the foremost class leaders on the campus.
. - What we urge is that more satisfactory 
jaethods. of choosing tbe membership of. Cav'riegle, lionoraries be evolved. How can lvonbe'leadership societies it the-leaders 
ar. not. called? Why should fraternity or 
5 sorority' quotas limit leadership? Is is right 
Ltli&i non-organization'students stand a chance 
of class honorary membership only when 
'there 5s a'fraternity deadlock?
'} To the new members we say, keep the . in
terests of tho school at heart, to be non-par
tisan is the hardest of tasks-hut try at any 
;,rate;Wheii sizing up new members look at the 
'individual not the pin which he wears, and
- above all when you do decide upon a fair and 
judicious method of selection have the cour
tage/ to' support your plan wholeheartedly.
This EditoriaL BusinessI
 T. HAS been said /that we never discover 
how mauy bumps there are in the road 
vVAti- "we take the wheel ourselves and start to 
.'drive. There is a lot of truth in this staterittent. We never discover how hard It is to 
fV: please the public until we are placed in a posi tion where we have to try it. There are dif^ 'ficalttes connected with running a paper that 
?^ae::iivef lraglhed' hy  th readers.
rLet's get- closer to the point: What about
editorial department? If the editorials
- are not vigorous, if they fail to take a definite 
v-stand on campus >problems, readers at once 
>-L-::brand them-as colorless and wishy-washy. 
svButvwben weilash out forcefully and take a 
^>:flrm Btand :on camps questions we will fall
- viar.short of pleasing everyone. In fact, if .we 
^did^please everyone tne editorial would he 
3s*55TuelesB- TbereTre many m'inils' and it is' 
^surprising how these inanymlnds will dls'vagree once we have taken a stand.
^v-^But- after all. -lf: we. honestly and sincerely 
^sav'^with our pen what we. belve in our 
is-^eartsv'we-are deserving of;the respect of ourj
r*JL:Wev.wlll express our candid opinion about-v'maDy ' thingB.- . We. expect- to make enemies. 
^i:put?beWnd.'all we 6ay-^v.lll.be'the Honest con-' 
yoTnTp.whmv that we-* are working for the-Lest inof Carnegie Tech. -i.We. will  'stick.. to 
t ourguns we won t quit!
PRESIDENT-PROMOTERS
Twofuture of President Roosevelt: FarleyHowe. Both meo are loyal. Farley was recently loyal to.Alfred. E, Smith; for twentyWhlte House.
Farleys added talents .were, however, needed. Howe is not a run of the field salesman, but o shrewd, political juggler who performs best in the background. The huge, jovial Farley moves about in a welter of first names, Elks, and political leaders, throwing off the reflected glory and back-wash of the spotlight. It appears that he will last at least until 1936 when'he will again be called upon for his pur- tlc^lar talents.
Howe has been in ill health for some time. H>s ability to keep In touch with shifting political currents and tbe intricate and trying maneuvers of Congress have been missed.
; Me<; Hie IFrom Indianapolis, where Howe was bom in 1S71, Ills'family moved to Saratoga, .and Howes father became editor of the Saratoga Sun. At seventeen Howe look over his father's job as Albany correspondent of the New York Herald and found himself- mingling with the political figures of the late 1600s when they gathered at Saratoga during the racing season. ' Through election .campaigns in upper New York State he learned to judge accurately the rural political mind. During one 'of UieBe up-state/campaigns, he met Frauklii
County,ivelt.nd la'; forof Dutchess
the State Senate.
Howe Grooms the Horse When illness oppeorcd to interfere with Roosevelts sucdess, Howe became his manager ond Roosevelt was elccted. He was his personal secretary when Roosevelt went to Washington as Assistant Secretary of the Navy in Wilson's cabinet. As vice presidential running mate wHh James M. Cox in 1920. the Democratic nominees were defeated, but Roosevelt was introduced to the American publicshrewd political foresight on the part of Howe who knew defeat to be inevitable. The tragic illness of the President brought the slight, silent, energetic Howe and the handsome member of one of America's early families still closerHowe gave up a commercial career to aid the stricken man.After his recovery, Roosevelt moved rapidly toward Howes goal. In 1024 he nominated. Alfred E. Smith as Democratic presidential candidate; in 192S he was elected Governor of rk State and again Smith as his party': in 1930 Roosevelt was re-elected GoNew York; and in 1932 he was elected President of the United Stntes, the first Democratic president since Woodrow Wilson. Farley
under way.During the convention Howe hod guided Roosevelt's party destiny.from the .Congress. Hotel, Chicago, while Farley lined up votes In the convention hall."From the Prudence and Liggett buildings in New York he supervisedwith a suite of rooms in. the' executiv
Protector of a PresidentSince Roosevelt's inauguration, Ho\ve\ has- been the. silent adviser on major political appointments and policy. Rarely has his judgment been neglected. He organized the first administration press service to keep his chief Informed of the country's reactions to his New Deal'policies. Hard boiled when he has to be, witty and concise in conversations with reporters when he wanders Into the press room imoke, considerate of others, the carelessly dressed, frail Howe has spent a lifetime in the role of protector arid oracle for the.man he thought might be President twenty-two; years ago.Farley is the round-up agent, but in the more delicate position of adviser and confidante, Howe would be irreplaceable. His dual role of friend and political soothsayer is a bination hard to find. To doubt his loyaly> sacrilege; for he ha- shosigns of the slightest personalHe is not a well man, and Roosevelt needs now, perhaps more than formerly, -one who Know Congress, understands, thcs complex administration bills somewhat  more thoroughly than Howe, and can be trusted. Thus, Charles West makes his entrance into the Washington
West. Conies East To say that West would replace Howe is ridiculous  Howe has the ties of friendship binding him to itoosevelt. But in the past fe^
; abseiwhoce the President contact Congress, ideal man for the pose in anotherS\Vesteiicollegevelt is partial to the graduate.A.B. from Ohio Wesleyan in 1018, .his A.M. in 1910, did graduate work at the University of
-esident Roosevice eousul. speni
He taught political science at the College of Wooster. 1920-22; at Tufts, 1923-24; at Harvard, 1023-24.Professor In Politics From the chair of political science at Denl- liniverslty, Granville, Ohio,
liis senatorial campaign,. For his double loss it wa6 natural that he be compeused. His academic background plus
who are. uot too, cordialHe showed his common sense as. a-member of th powerful Ways and Means committee, attended meetings of House groups ou plans, for ending the 'stalemate on the Work .Relief Bill and sat in on White House conferences on the Social Security Bill. : During the last ..Coxx^fss..lie.wai on..t^e.siib-commJttesjtthlch, considered the original Wagner-Lewis Bill and has speiit valuable time, studying'the .phases, of unemployment insurance.:  :'V'Hovering near the ' office of /Hos Speaker Josph W. Byros, ;  he 'liBtens for telephone calls from the WhUe .House.'''. On the^ record,,--------- :"1stant;:.t''.administra  .th .record,; hisv duties', to lead liim to the WlUte House.- " Olive Branch','Over Ohl;-v \ ' He. ha3 soothed' Injured'feellnge: 'nd solved contusions among Dih'craU:ih\tn'e..Hus'tid Senate'. In th antrooma-^r ii^ baa -prevented futureVmhi^asemnts for 'Per-' kins. Roper and.- Ickes'iod also -calme-aie.
LAST DAYS OF PITTSBURGH
This, said Dr. Bug Lug, as he directed 
an open-mouthed group of tourists through' 
tbe marvels of the buried city, Is tbe an
cient town of Pittsburgh, sacred city of 
the god McNair, who legend tells us dwelt 
-here and was ruler-In 1936, the year the 
town was completely submerged  in coal 
smoke. He is noted for bis wise sayings 
and was a- great teacher. People from all 
over' the country came to him for advice, 
and he never discriminated betweeu the 
good and the bad. He had faith In all. 
and it is written that he put some very 
notorious people on his payroll in an ef
fort to reform them. It is one of the sad
dest Uilngs In the history of this ancient 
people that Just before McNair completed 
his plan to benefit the citizens of this 
great city, no one kno^s just hov,\ with  
a single tax program, the city disappeared from the face of the globe.
"But what happened to Pittsburgh? How., did it come to be buried? asked one of. the group, a lovely damsel, envied by the other women for her gloriously knobby cranium. ^ The knobbler- and shJnler the braln-cases of these moderns, the more intellectual they are, and by Intellectuality is beauty measured in this age. It is rumored that some of the giddier of the young women are wearing false knobs, of
not add to the brain power. It is becoming a common occurrence iu the hot  weather to see these- artificial creatures with their bumps of knowledge melting - and trickling down their necks and smearing up their glasses. At least the glasses
rimmed spectacles.
VMany years ago, answered Dr. Bug Lug, eminent Japanese and bead of the Archeology Society of Ancient-America, "thousands of years ago at the beginning or this era. there was a famine in fhe land or these extinct white men. There was no work for those.who needed money to, buy . food, and every one was unhappy. Then great mills of the city of Pitts-burgh closed dow:rty stalked
threatened him. But in the South : great and strong man,, destined to be the preserver of his'country. He taught the way to salvation, but-the people scoffed at
prophets come to them and promised re lief from the depression,'and too often'ha< the people been disappointed.
. "But suddenly, when it was thought tlia
' contraption in those days, his magnetic personality swept the nation, and Ills op- . poueuts were completely obliterated. He became the ruler of the United Slates, and immediately prosperity descended upon the people. The nation rejoiced
iveryone had ,n car, a radio, a yacht, summer home at Palm Springs.
 ing and gift-giving, and corresponds to the ancient  holiday of Christmas. The United States was a Utopia. 
But what became of the white race? Was not this great, man white?
Yes, he was white, but historians have it'that there was a streak of yellow in' him, and his name denotes that he had some Japanese ancestry. Unfortunately,
plane, for Utopia never anticipated such i one ns ours. Then the people worked They did actual physical work! Braim
develop brains merely because their leader is a Superman. It took the white race a long t>me to learn and to accomplish I have heard that they actually had to go to college for four years to acquire whatweek.
and"Huey Long was the v,-e Orientals bow to him, the saviour of the world. Because of our superlor brains the Japanese were able to improve on Huey Long's Utopia-we abolished work. Tlmt is the reason we have'survived and the whites have died out. 
 But why did the-whites tiie out?" asked another young lady, her knobs fairly trembling. '
"Because they worked too hard. Their mills had been shut down for years and none .of them had even been allowed to go into agriculture for fear of .a surplus on the food market. They sat around home
working as longs they did not make a living wage. How- iver, when Huey Long, with a wave of his nighty hand, set prosperity loose, the peo- )le were so anxious to get back to work, for they were tired of their extended tion 'the tramps looked <velty, for the government had forbidden them to chop, wood in exchange for meals) that they all worked' themselves to death within a year.
"But how about Pittsburgh? simpered one young lady, . whose protuberances'
the mills all started i air was black with soot. Even durlug the depression the scot in Pittsburgh was, eleven inches deep, and when all the' mills' poured forth black smoke from their numerous, smokestacks, the., city was buried , in cinders to tlie tip' of the\ Cathedral of 'Learning iu three days.
But what^of Huey Long? cried one of the damsels, her knobs pulsating. What became of him? , Did.he 'die, too?.
Oh, no!" smiled - the .doctor.-; VNo in- deed; Huey Long lived to a ripe old age. He. kney better .than-to work himself-to-, death.  In fact,- ,he never worked at all.
. VIRGINIA ANNE MATHER.
ptes among them. Now he is to return to his
, he is.popular with.House
CAMPUS WEEK IS DEAD and long live her effects (aspirl 
and a dose of salts will speed recovery) . . . anyway, its nice 
to be back lo school again and have a full week between hang
overs ... to date, our Queen has been crowned, our new officers 
introduced, the most promising engineer chosen, and class bonorarics have acquired new men and here we are, so 'what? . . . 
before us looms another trial, another hindrance, blocking tbe 
path to success . . . yvhat is it? .. . . you guessed .wrong, it's 
vacation . . . just think, we have to 6lt around all summer with 
no school to go at . . . ah. what a trial, what a burden ... of 
course, some of you may be bothered by such trivial things as 
exams, but dont let it Irk you further . . . just cut . . . they 
never call the roll.
EX-PRESIDENT BECKER slated during call day that the 
customary Welding of the Link had been.a very dull ceremony 
In past years . . .' so. In order that the audience might be re
lieved, be read a brief history concerning the founding and con
tinuation of the tradition . . . well, we still dont like it.
BRIGHT SAYINGS OF CHILDREN . . . during that part of. 
tbe Queen crowning ceremony wbe nthe pages dash all over the 
joint bellowing, Let the Queen-elect draw near, let the Queenelect draw near, some wit in the background-piped up, Let the 
Queen-elect draw beer.
ribes and salesmen .TO ALL YE Cannvaliu 
ber the womens wlclcer room of Arts School is no place to 
undress.
I THINK (occasionally) that tbe tea ilance on- Saturday 
afternoon was an excellent idea and hope' that it will be estab-' 
lished-in future carnivals . . . and speakiug of dancing, we 
award the speed trophy to Cliff Gifford . . . lies up and down 
Thistle Hall in ten seconds flat . . . and thats in waltz time,
ARCHITECTS w 
nival in a row. Leav 
the boys in etitclies.
THE PLAY on Saturday night was a huge success . . . the 
acting was splendid, tho dialogue delightful, and the audience re
sponsive . . . what more can you ask? ... . after the play 
some of the cast, among others, were entertained by Miss Min" nie Gleason at her home, some went to Sid Hayes, others went 
to the Plaza,.still others to Childs Restaurant, and till others 
to the Continental . / . the wise ones went home to bed (the big 
sissies).
THE ARCHITECTS decided that they would share in the 
Campus Week festivities last Thursday night, so they gaily pro
ceeded to tear the drafting room apart, piece by piece . . . part 
of the, ceremony included the filling of a large paper bag with 
waterand dropping it over the baoisler at -the feet of Dr. Wat
kins, several flights below . . . boy, was he surprised?
WE UNDERSTAND that Queenie Vautrinot was almost kid
naped on Friday night before the ball. Four dark men were the 
cause of why she almost disappeared and Marie "Cello Provost 
was the reason why she didnt. With a God save our costumes 
and our queen she went into action and batted the would-be 
Hauptmanns for 1,000%.
PERHAPS SOME OF YOU witnessed the collision between 
Jim Glenn and Kappa Sig blggy last Friday . . . Mr. Glenn Is 
credited with saying, I was trying to stick my finger in Mun
sters eye; however, I only managed to get an elbow in his
THE OTHER NIGHP Scotty Charles and Tom Coulter left 
their babes, Mary Casliman and Lihby Smith, in the Beta House 
while they went home to change . . . the girls, having nothing 
to do, promptly went to sleep on the couch ... in the midst of 
their slumber, some of the wicked bros got. out their cameras 
and proceeded to ta^ pictures or the sleeping, beauties at all 
angles . . . Incidentally, they have been taking pictures of all 
the events during Campus Weelc . . . during their tea. Sunday 
they made Deari Green climb the steps in front (ft the house two 
times, just so .they could catch her with the camera.
ARCHITECTS EXONERATED; they cant be blamed for the 
water hag that waslied out the Coronation ceremonies.
Letters printed are the .opln. Ions of readers and should net be confused with the editor lal jjollcy of the Tartan.
WHAT IS THE MATTERWITH THE NIGHT PAGE Dear Editor: v ,I' am ' an .interested and. highly enthusiastic reader of the Tartab. I have watched it grow In quality during the years l have spent at
school page has measured the rest of tbe paper. II hns failed to measure up I. believe because its editors have persistently tried to be funny instead of wilting straight, sensible stories.
which reminds the render that the Tartan is not responsible for the policies of the page. This I feel is indeer too bad for if the Tartau would take a stronger hand recting its policies and style of
I would like to see the Tartan run a. column similar to the Mr. Fixit column of the Pittsburgh Pr^ss. There are many,
Such a colrnun would certainly be worthwhile for students and lor the administration.To get things started let me suggest that more clocks be placed in conspicuous places in the halls of the colleges. It is annoying not to know the exact time as we dash- through the halls.If this is the beginning of a Fixup column I shall be delighted. I sincerely hope you will see the proper authorities and get us some clocks.O. P. T.
Dear-Editor:When being interviewed on the Tartan Quarter Hour last week, you made the statement that the new Tartan staff would welcome any constructive criticisms or sugUie past Tartan torials, a few suggestions us to your editorial policies could be used good advantage.
nted in such a haphazard manner that they accomplished nothing. The Tartan, has not been re sponsible for any major change in any Carnegie organization during this school year, although It has suggested several much-needed changes. I believe that the desired editorials
>rialslost simply because' the edi 3t presented with enough forcefulness. If a good editorial is to have any effect It must be followed up. There' are plenty of Improvements tha!t could be made on the Carnegie chmpus and you as the editor of the Tartan should feel the responsibility of seeing that these changes are brought
On Second 
Tkoiigkt
. . By Emily Kramer
Intelligent people through^ 
the country have come to bell^. 
that Hearst and the-policy he rfJ 
resents constitute a. menace 1 
America's welfare. ' With but 
exceptions this belief has remain.' 
ed merely a belief- -therfhave 
lew attempts to cryatallze it ^ 
any sort.of effective opposition lhai 
would combat Hearst in an artica.| 
late and decisive manner.
A recent dispatch prepared 
the Association of -College Edllon 
reports on one method which has 
been tried at Williams College, Wq. 
liamsport, Massachusetts. There the college paper, the Williams Record, won a local fight agalm 
Hearst when the local theater &a- uounced that Hearst Metrotoi^ News would not be shown screen in the future.
Petition Circulated
T.his action on the part of th; owner of the theater w'compliance with a petiti ___ed amoug students and facuUf members at Williams. The petition rend,in part:
To Calvin King, lessee ot UB 
hold that
they will produce If followed./
In the Walden Theater, yon show the iHearst Metrotone Netrj, crammed full of Hearst Propagg& da. The latest includes pictures of armies drilling, for the glory ci empire;, pictures of persons ^ stress the necessity of an army aoi imvy second to none; and of vari- ous other scenes tending to uphold Jiearst's subversive and desLru;-
wlll refuse to attend the "Walden Theater, and will urge others like- wise to refuse, unless you ce Hearst Metrotone News.Received Student Suppi When the petition was launched, signatures were quickly affixed. On the second day of Its circulation, more than a fourth of the college had signed. Confronted with Ihe threat of a boycott, already made real by the smoillest audiences ot the year, Calvin King, lessee or the theater, flashed,a render on. th< sceen which informed his smnll an dience of twenty people that, ii spite of his contract, Hearst Metro-  lieOif. I
suggested that hispetitionmight better have been worded a follows:We object' to William Randolph Heasts Metrotone News on these | grounds: 1. It reportstruth, incidents and scenes which j
facts; 3. Commentator 
in theHearst Metrotone News'in terpret all scones lq a manner I support the- policies of the IHenrsl |
We prefer a news-reel which presents facts on both-sides of a question and allows the audience to draw its own conclusions."
Honoraries Call
170 Studen ts
I DELTA EPSILON
TAU SIGMA ] 
idwnrd ;y/Uei
ALPHA CHI ALPHA
SCABBARD BLADE
- INTRAMURAL BOARD
MORTAR BOARD
, R. Earl Beyer.
Mulligan, Modolln
' the campus- in
RenflBfilaer Polytechnic..
s the tobacco r
.................... iL- - "ilfiner tobaccos than those used in

---------------------------------------------------

m
THE CAKNTGIB TARTAN, TUESDAY, MAY 14, 19SS
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
 .'
By SCOTTY CHARLES
v SIMPLE STATEMENT OF SIMPLE FACTS : . . After anneuncim 
,ur intentions of getting ourselves a policy last week, we looked It U| 
n the dictionary and found out thdt we had'.part of one all ready 
lere are some-of eur more recent Ideas:
1. We are going to attempt to give every team on the campus at 
.ven break this year.
2. We are of the honest opinion that the Carnegie football tearr 
,f 1935 is potentially one of the greatest the school has had In yeari 
md will publicize It as such.s
3. We shall dispense with summaries when possible and try ti 
give a story of the game or meet. Our reason for doing this is on thi 
,ld policy that prose offers better reading than a set of log taiffes.
4. We are golhg to try to supply a series of new and differen 
eatures by-Jimmy Hughes who-has proven himself capable as.a fln< 
ports writer for the past two years.
5. We are going toftry our darndest'to get a new name for thii 
:0lumn but we cant seem to get-together on a decent titjle. All con
, friends, 
AT THIS TIME WE ARB HAPPY TO ANNOUNCE THAT Miss Margi 
Green, Women's Athletic Association Sports Editor deluxe, will remain 
on oar staff for another year. In our humble opinion, Miss Grefen 
write? the best column in school, bar none, and we heartily recommend 
jl for your reading. 
IN SPEAKING OF CARNIVAL SPORTS (outdooi 
miss that hair-raising sweepstake final in which the Betas barely edged 
oul the Kappa Slgs. The Forbes Street lads frictlonless wonder by 
Dilks is still the class of the coasters, dusting into an early lead an 
hanging on to It to a Garrison finish.
Incidentally, many of the sweepstakes laddies are searching for th 
unsanitary Sioux who dumped a bucket of sand at the bottom of th 
hill on the curve so that the first buggy that hit it (guess who) woul 
certainly skid and turn over, probably Injuring the driver and pushei
:ely, i;red i
THE IIATHER HALF HEARTED FOOTBALL GAME OF HEY DAY 
feel, no real indication of what the team can do. The defense 
orking well but the sultry weather made for a loss of punch 
tack. After the first half, au attempt was made to add color to 
the Hey Day by letting the boys score. Even with all the strong boys 
on one side it was tough to do. This shows a potentially stroui 
serve supply. As to individual. Stars, we pick Vorderburg.
THE FACULTY SENIOR MUSHBALL was its usual Jolly self, the 
crowd, booing and cheering on the right cues, looked tired (didn't he?) 
According to the old Carnegie tradition, both teams won.
r hotThe Tarlan netmen had their matches delayed by wet 
In tho week. These matches may be played la'ter. Guy Halfertys gang 
ct Uackstcrs took Waynesburg with some ease. Joluiny Green, Frank 
CliMma anil Ken Spencer did Iron man' work for the Skibos in winniugid a tougher meet with Westitighouae High, 
-eaking through with a tie. Dave Pinkerton, ace miler, starred for 
tlie plebes la breaking- the record for the distance.
The golfers also split one and then dropped one to the Presidents 
of \V. & J, and to West' Virginia.
INCIDENTALLY, ONE TEAM THAT DESERVES A LOT 
is the golf team. These' boys petitioned the Athletie C 
years ago for recognition of their sport; The petition was refused, but 
the lads carried on alone. Buddy- Overend kindly gave his pei 
support by awa&lm.ng the boys vaiand helping therr
Carnival Sports Program Offered 
Sweepstakes, Football and Mushball
the fast rolling Beta buggy took a lead dowjictlie hill,.lost.some of it at the lower exchauge, heldJ its clrn .fi?:' the., se:rt |,wo jrmsljes and then barely, nosed out Kappa Slg*
Betas Again Break Record 
For Course; Theta Xi 
Wins Design^Cp 
cast weekend, 
iaV had the-privilege of seeing
toe sweepstakes busies in action, 
'he footballers at work, and the 
faculty at play (as tiiey laughingly
.. football between the red and -green squads of the Carnegie football team. The red team, won tlier' easily after the gi
The first event of the weekend 
tas the design contest for the 
'^eepslakes buggies. Tn this 
Jme buRgles as . last year 
itorert with practically 110 changes 
* appearance of construction. Two 
11 tlie three judges were the same 
year. However, tlie Theta 
which took third last year, 
competition with 
1 laking second. The-Beta' 
which won last years judgplaced third.
Tartan Track 
Team Retains 
Perfect Record
DownsW aynesburgSquad 
84 2-3 to 41 1-3; Plaid 
Sweeps.220.Dash
GIOLMA WINS 220 
AND 440 YD. DASHES
2 rack Capta in Finishes First 
In Ideal Engineers Race
Frank Giolma, Canadian 
Runner, Stars In 
Track, Classroom
Tartans Win in Field By 
Wide Margin; Take AU 
Places in Vault
The Carnegie track team tallied 
its fourth straight win Wednesday 
when it downed Waynesburg, 34 2-3 
to 41 1-3. \
In the first event, the 120 yard 
high hurdle, Green placed s< 
and Spencer took third. Green 
closed up the lead that Waynesburg 
had, but did not have enough dis
tance lo win. Carnegie took second 
and third In tlie high jump, with 
crist and James doing the honors. 
The Waynesburg jumper also won 
the high hurdles. Camblor breez
ed through the hundred in i0:02 
seconds for an easy win, with Perina second.In the mile run the Yello\ Jacket runner had things pretty
The two-mile . ..............the same way, but McMahon took second, with Babin placing third. McMahon had previously run the mile. The half-mile run ended differently, howevor. Koch stepped away at the finish to win by a slight gin, and Beall crossed the third. The quarter mile m cinch for Captain Giolma, v, Beall again took a third. At 220 tbe lads representing Carnegh
Perina second, and Connor third. To make up for the loss in th igh hurdles Green took first i tbe 120 yard low hurdles. He le the field most of the way hom< Spencer was second.In the field- events the Tartans had the advantage. .Brow the shot put with a toss of 40 teet,
closer, with Spencer winning first,
By Jimmy. Hughes 
The Thet Tau award has been 
given to a man who Is not only an 
outstanding student, leader, And 
good fellow, but who Is also an out
standing athlete at Carangle. Frank 
Giolma has made himself the most 
prominent man In Carnegie track 
events since Tom Coulter was 
handed the old sheepskin.
-, Like his famous forerunner, 
Frank is a product of the Dominion
the city of Victoria, British Columbia. His primary and ondary education were received in
Under the peculiar system of sports in Canadian schools which do not sponsor intenjcliolastlc athletics. Frank did not do much In the track Events.  His tiinin participation was in the Sports Day events which were held at each of the schools, in those dayg'he' took part In tbe 100, the 220, and the broad jump. In Lite 220, he distinguished himself by setting a record which was not broken for five years. ' v
After high school, Frank came to .Pittsburgh to work at the Westing- house plant. After spending four
Westinghouse Runners 
Get Tie with Plebes
lie received a scholarship, and tered day school in 32.Since tbat time, the name of Frank Giolma has come to be one of the outstanding, in the field of 'ack in. this district. He has been continual winner In the 220 and 10, and has been one of the highest scorers on tho team for his vs. Last year, his teamseason. As so far
Co-Captain for this or as the season has Frank has conti:
which somewhat Cross-county, and one he spent as a memberof
Fltzwilson'and Ford tossed the Jnv- Sing elm farther than any of the visitoi ,nd placed as named. The winning
Discarded Notre Dame University football suite.are used by the Black Sheep football team.-al SinnThe Parthenou.
Brown 'won second, broad jump looked easy ur Waynesburg man sailed 21 feet and two inches. Perina was second and .James had to be contended with third. This was one of the closest matches of the after: for the Carnegie man had a best jump one half inch shorter than the
Order Your Alumni 
Degree Rings Now
While working in the Tulane university medical school dissecting laboratory, a student discovered his father'
being deadlocked at 40 1-2 to 40 1-2. fcoach Halferty miler, Dave Pinkerton, brokevth'
ed ltke the Plebes had the victory cinched until Cooper of WestJng- house bettered Irving's jump .of
handling the field events, Slamin- ko, Kopcsak and Yeknik, have quitted themselves nobly and s<' ) promise well for next years
Golfers Lose 
To W. Virginia
Palley and Kay Prevent 
Shutout; Gain Ties
Probably ' the sprlnff carnival 
can be blamed somewhat, but u 
Iheless the Tarlan golfers went 
down In defeat at the hands of 
the . West Virginia team 6-1. The 
match was played at. the Field Club under blue skies end plenty of mosquitoes, with the Plaid boys falling'to win a single match.
Jackon, West Virginia, defeated Speyer, -Carnegie Tech, 4 and 3.
Grow. West Virginia, aud Pallpy, Carnegie Tech, all even.
Jackson and - Grow, West Virginia, defeated Pulley and Speyer, Carnegie Tech, 4 and 3.
Kay, Carnegie Tech, and Loar West Virginia, all even.
Asplnwall, West Virginia, defeat*' ed Stewart, Carnegie Tech, 4 and
Asplnwall and Lour, West Virginia. defeated Kay and Stewart, Carnegie Tech, 1 up.
Next week will see the Carnegie golfers engaging in three mutches.
Womens Athletics
by Margie Green
Just a short message this week, 
klud friends, owing to a weekend 
full of the more frivolous things of 
lifeyet the only thiugs that make 
it worthwhile, especially at. this 
point in the game. Im willing to 
bet that, there isnt a soul on cam
pus who hasnt expressed the trite 
'Why can't we have a spring car
nival every week.
But to get back to my message 
(remember?) It is merely thinjuut 
a single Item, yet a most important 
one. The W. A. A.' Board, both old 
and new, is planning for a tradition
al Spring Retreat at Trinity Manor 
ne thirty miles out the William 
Peon Highway. We have set next 
Sunday tor the day and niuo to uine is'the time; that will give us twelve solid hours for some serious planning s for uext-.year. I cant guarantee the twelve hours, but, with regard to tho latter, wo expect present some very cholfco revisions of the entire W. A. A. sys- to next years- association. Of course.- one never knowsshould
when well adjourn.
Although we W. A. A. gtrls had 
no part in organizing the roller skating contest at Spring Carnival : (there.l go remluiacing again), wo must say it was very thrilling.. Many of the girls fell by the way- alde with lost skates and scuffed shine, but he Kappa Phi Delton managed to keep their balance right to the finish. Many. ot tho
ing legs and they were ready for the race. The Kappa Delta took the lead very early.and seemed t<v be a sure Vlniner until  the third girl slowed up and was almost- over* taken by Alpha Phi Delta's skaters.. However, Dorothy . Booth had ti. slight lead and won the race Cor Kappa Phi Delta by a narrow margin as an exciting flni9h. Now that this is well begun, wo hope that the roller skate derby will become

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE T4WTAW, TUESDAY, MAY Wh at
THE 
CARNEGIE 
PLAID
WAtTEIt J. NOIGOX ,
B. F. WHITE : WILLIAM E. HAKE GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZ DAVID 0. DAVIS
Social Chairman
: : The recent which marked the end ot the BOClal events (or the Sht Btudents. brought to a close the term of ot flee.of Mr. H. B Stone the social chairman for the past year- u ' Only proper thafcne take  liortunity to express the general satisfaction, that existsto the fine work done by Mm. Due to his efforts and^the^ capable^
the moat
enjoyable Bocial
stance ot Mr. Lahr, the night 
group ha-'enjoyable ------ . .history of the night school.
Mr. Stone
Historical Highlights 
... of...
Night Student Council
Need for Publication
Medium Being Felt
Although there was no centraliz
ed group looking afler the activi
ties or the night students, It is Jneating to note that 'there was a 
prising degree or success 
achieved by the sponsors of the 
projects;
During the early years of night 
:hool the only medium for ac
quainting the group aside from the 
personal contact in the various 
class rooms was the Tartan, but 
should be kept in mind, however, that the Tartan did not reach every night student as It has beeu only uring recent years that this privl- >ge has beeu extended so that the atire night student body receives the Tartan direct by, mail. 
Because of the different arrange- ents obtained as to the payment of the activities fe<
Council Appoints 
Handbook Editor
if owi  well kno1 on the night campus, and has been active in Council affairs for the past several years. The sincerity V his work has already been al- / tested by the award of three jn-  sicnias. The PloW joins the stu- ,-SSs in expressing their apprecia
tion- lor his efforts.
NIGHT LIGHTS
The crooners had a fine lime of i In the public speaking clasB tne other day when the whole class started in on -Old Black Joe. Very ; pretty, indeed. Speaking of the 
. peaking class,K1140i, ____ Shortess
le Thursday night troop presented 
: Mr. Lawler With * ~'ri "~r" *. gift fit
cl/iss, and Mr. Lawler (ah. the pity ot tt!) was at a loss tor words! The claim is that the other group didn t ' have sense enough to think o a 
. 'thing like that . . -( Architects, attention: The .1cheeashun is appalling99 oiit iOO dbnt know what cbareote ' Ed Sherwin manager to si awake long enough to finish Ms ams last week . . . Hughie Krebs boldly  admits his favorite indoor 
 Vport iseatlng . ,pw" members
tin?
of the .campus -weekly could be cured on certain doy6 each In the corridorsthat Is, provided there were uny left in the evenings.
While the Tartan did, now and then, publish news items relnti
majoiL whole t ofilumn space to the printing of data for the day students which Was a perfectly logical thing to do since this group was the main support of the activity.
With matters os they can Teadily be seen lhat the lack of a publicity medium mendopa handicap operating against those stndents who were laboring to put over successful extra curricular activities. To these workers, therefore, much credit must be accorded for their loyalty.
held May 5, John. Schurko appointed editor of the night student handbook for the year. 1935-3}. This, will be- the eleventh annual publication of ' the volume. The handbook is the leather bound book- : distributed to the night students the time of registration. 
Inter-Night 
Dance Closes 
Social Season
Finale Under Direction 
JL B. Stone Surpasses 
Previous Affairs
MR. JOHN SCHURKO
The book contains answers many questions thm are encountBr- ed by the students from time to time, and a description of night student council, its duties and activities. Besides enlightening the dents on the various phases of night
scholastic and social activities.
Mr. Schurko Is registered d, department of Architectural design of the College of Fine, Arts, has been on the campus for a : ber of years and at the present time Is Treasurer of his college.During the past two years he h served on the staff of the Thistle and much of its success has due to his effort?. He assumes his new duties with a wealth of experience and the new handbook promises to be one of the best published.
The recent Inter-night college 
dance held in Thistle hall was 
of the most successful events of 
this nature, that Council 'lias 
sponsored - since the introduction 
night- social affairs. This 
event brought to a close the stpCial 
activities of the nlght group for the 
present year.
The success was due to the untiring efforts of Mr. Stone the retiring agotht chairman and his assistant, Mr. Lahr. The fine espe- ience of Mr. Stone, who r.iso holds the office of President of the college of industries, was evident in Bmootbness with which the  carried on.
ie social committee as usual did themselves proud on the decorations
which rose lines were mounted. Hidden spot-lights were placed behind the trellises and added color t< effect. Tho programs, which the most ' unique ' introduced this rear,. consisted of a novelty ii hape of a circle. Slots on the r indicate the numbers of the dance and persons with whom dances ere scheduled. ' ,Gay corsagcs of roses were presented to the Indies in attendance. Will Click and his orchestra filled the hall with their smooth ryt and moved the weariest of ni students to terpiscorean endeavi
were asked to state briefly the Mon- Doctrlne. The prize for cun- sciseness went to the yearling who ered VScram Foreigners.
. V -Two members 
"of"the electrical dept., Mr. Evans ;\anidrMr. Kennedy, decided, they  couldntget away with it any longer, and showed-up in the supple
mentary English. I81. 
^Thumbnail sketch of Ed White: Aits school president, member ot the Plaid staff, and the winner /'of a recent amateur contest t the .Alvin, was born May 7,26 years ago, - in: Pittsburgh, because he wanteu to-be near his mother.  When he .- was, a smell boy, he won a boy so- ; urano contest to become a member  f eather Finn's Paulist Choir  New. York ... He didn't go towicked city, and so remained the . eweef Innocent youth he is today He won the Alvin co ' dr the name of E. Dav r.--%v,'hlch he took, he says, because hli /dad told him to go out and make aname for himaelf . . . Prefers dlo. work to concert work . inokeB luckleB because they're kind to hiB goat . . . and his hobby Is collecting dogs and antiques, present girl-friends excepted . . He 'comes from a musical family; his .  -^brother plays the violin, bis mother V. ptays the piano, his sister sings r* : ' the radio, and his dad sings t first of every month?
Alumni Membership Drive Will
Begin in Graduating Class
Seniors Who Join Before | 
Commencement Given 
Special Rates
(Continued Prom Page One.) the Board of Directors, met and by the election of officers, consummated the organization of the Alumni. Federation. This move marked a step forward in that it united four previously' unrelated units, although the four groups continued to collect their own alumni "
In 1921 the business of collect' 
ing alumni dues, alumni publica
tions, alumni records, and plane for alumni events were put into the bands of the Alumni .Federation Board of Governors, and all alumni affairs concerning the four college alumni associations were handled by a main alumni office on the campus. This arrangement has continued to the present time, but in the last year the constitution and by-laws have been revised to meet the growing needs of the organizaothers for the womens group, and several occasions throughout  - year for the combined groups.As has been the custom In _ the pest .the Alumni! Federation is sponsoring an Informal dance to honor the seniora. This dance will be hold in Thistle Hall on Friday ening. May 31, following the. close of senior' examinations. Every senior is invited to : attend this dance and to bring a guest, necessarily another Carnegie Tech graduate or student. Furthc formation regarding the danc< be printed in future issues of the
>licltatlon of dues wlll .be .made  the dance.
Alumni dues for seniors are just half the regular yearly j-ate if paid
senior solicitor talks this week. Alumni membership is your source of gie after graduatio
THAT Drensen eeemc to be running " the season vrtUr-hi white shoes, gray suit and 
- stuff..-'THAT speaking of shoes, seen Art Grimm's? has suggested that if 1 sails were attached, the); would make gded hosts.THAT we are hearing quite a lot about Inflation these days. 
;.;Atieast
atlve selected from the entire alum- _ oiip irrespective ot the coV j lege from -which they graduated.
Industrial Finns 
Advise I Students
Summer Registration 
Exceeds Last Year*s
Because of the obvious benefits of education, not only to tbe men but also to tbe companies employing them, many ot the Pittsburgh firms bave taken up an educational program. Since July, 19.27, Carnegie Tech has had an arrangement witb about forty companies by which the-latter have ' designated one or more persons from their respective administrative staffs to act as educational advisers.
The chief function of these company. "deans- Is to assist employes in selecting the courses. that* arc ,best suited to.their needs. At the end of each semester the student's grades are sent to' the employer. The scholarship of the student is uot included , on the employment record but is inclosed in blue print
.oglcal test ratings made by the dent can also be obtained if desired. This information Is not terested In these ratings. AsicK* from the foregoing information that is available to employers, the personnel! representntles come in contact with the.deans of the respective schools and with the heads of the department from which the seniors are graduating and receive from them their personal opinion of the graduates.
The employment service to the alumni is a very- Important factov
suitable graduates. Tbe heads of the departments (particularly of the Colleges of Engineering and Industries) hear of many openings for the graduates by their contacts with outside firms and organize lions, and they usually Inform tin Bureau of them.
. Early Friday eveniug, a toUI ot 
two' hundred eighty-four students 
had registered for the night sup
plementary term, and according to 
Mr. McKelway of the registar's 
office, this years totol figure Is ex
pected to exceed three hundred 
year's iigures to date repre 
an increase or twenty-eight per cent ever last year.
ictically all of the students registered are ones taking regulo os at Carnegie Tech. Thy group is enrolled in E40, rhyslcs III. This group totals forty-five students, necessitating sections for this subject. Aboi ity-flve students are registered for the special course iu Fuels, Combustion, and Domestic Stock- ?rs. Another large group is enrolled in tbe first year Engineering mathematics course, C63 Trigonometry, totaling approximately thirty students.
rnard College and told to propose to the first girls they saw. Two of the girls acceptWhen you come 
. .vt NedforPuback (Mxt
FALL ^1
Last Day for Ticket \
Returns Set'.as May 251
At the IaBt regular meeting of 
night student Council, the date of 
May 25 was set as the last day on which ticket returns for social functions can be made to enable one to be eligible for the insignia award. Many students have failed to inake-tJcket returns. ..The point system established by Council enables them to a>vard all insignias on a lair basis. In justlceAo all. no insignias will be awarded to those who are still indebted to 
Council afler May 25.
As tb insignia dinner will be held sometime in tbe month o June, it is necessary that all returns be made promptly so that the record of points earned by workers may be completed.- Those who have enrned sufficient points to become eligible for the insignia will .be notified sometime in' "
The interschool mall
Reba Waggoner Bead, 
Women's Dormitories
 Reba Waggoner.'36. bepar(uienl 
of Music, was elected presic 
Dormitory council for ne:
Mies Waggoner has been 
president of Forbes ball duriDg 
past two. semesters.
Emily ;Bumgarn,er 36, of the De. 
partment of Home Economics wai elected vice- president. AiiSS Bum- J garner held tho ho ise, pi Rsiilem-y i of Laurel hall during Hit past
Miss Waggoner will succeed Mad- olLu Vautrinot 35, who has betD the Dormitory council presides r0f the past year; 1
From 1612, to June, 1934, lois I i-adets have been graduated [r0~ West Point.Minnesota Dally.  
box in the basement of the AdmiQ.
G-E lsAHed
SYNTHETIC SUNLIGHT 
' I 'lit. people whose apartments fneed the A lower levels of the ventilating shafts in a 14-etory New York apartment house had long ago given up the hope that direct sunlight would enter their windows. Imagine their
light  lots of it  streaming in. W^cn they looked, they found not the sun, hut 18 of ihe 
hr,-a able little imitatorsGeneral Electric floodlights. They had been mounted on the ninth-Ooor level.
The engineers were thoughtful of the tenants' feelingB. For when the switch is thrown no sudden glare of light paralyzes unaccustomed houeeholdcrB in the act of brushing .their teeth or doing setting up exercises, pastimes which .were formerly cloaked in intimate gloom. A fully automatic 6ynehronou9-motor time switch actuates a dimmer, and the floodlights do not attain full brilliancy for 15 minutes.
nectady .and Benning, D. C., groaned under what is believed to be the heaviest load ever transported on a single car. The load consisted of tne generator shaft, rotor, and poles far a General^ Electric frequency converter set being installed at the plant of tho Potomac Electric light and Power Company to deliver 25-cycle, single-phaee power to the Pennsylvania Railroad. The total weight on tbe rails was 471,300 pounds.
Becauec of weight and clearance requirements, however, the route of the shipment was round about. A check of practically every foot of the
etructions could be removed to allow the load to pass. From Schenectady to Wilkes-Barre, Pa., the csr traveled on the Delaware & Hudson. From WiJkes-Borre, the cor was 6ent to Hagerstown, Md., on tbe Pennsylvania Rail* road, where it was turned over to tbe Western Maryland Railroad. After an extensive detour, it was delivered back to the Pennsylvania on its main line just south of tbe Baltimore tunnels, which were tbe principal reasons for the complicated routing. From, there it wan carried dircctly to the power companys siding in (he District of Columbia.
fJiHE ]
FISH LIFE SAVER 
people in the New York Aquarium- ....e very unhappy. Many of their rare were dying of a mysterious malady. An cstigation showed that the water pumped into the tanks contained contaminating metal ealts, and that these salts came from the metal pumps in the system.
They appealed to the II. A. Smith Pump & Motor Company for help. Mr. Smith began * sting all the nonmetallie substances available
1 Electric Tentolite was the only one that would prevent this pollution of tbe water and at tbe same time make a satisfactory pump.  v
Engineers of the General Electric PlaBtics~ . ;"'"''suraTestolita. The pomp was.so constructed that
; THAT one of Jei swallowed a bullet '^air-ls growing in bangs. : vTHATs'nc a liftshe :: Street ear in her mouth.  \ THAT birds of /.flock togethei
