Jfcn must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have in mind-to eay, pro-.' 
vided it wrongs no one.
__CHARLES A. DANA ..
Todays Editorials 
Deserving Tribute
The Restricted Period 
Goes on Trial 
A New Deal for New Deal.
VOL. 29, NO. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY* PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOV. 20, 1934
FRATERNITIES BEGIN RUSHING SEASON NEXT SUNDAY
Annual Carnegie Day 
Assembly to Be Held 
In Music Hall, Nov27
Tartan Editor 
Loses Fight 
On Straw Vote
Willmot Lewis, 
isber, to Deliver 
Main Address
P4RADE DIRECTIONS 
HA.VE BEEN ISSUED
Captain Whitaker Named 
Chief Marshal; Student 
Officers Appointed
Sir Willmott Harsant Lewis, 
Washington Correspondent of the 
Londoo Times, will deliver the 
main address at the Annual Car
negie Day Services on^ Tuesday, 
November 27, in Carnegie Music 
Hall.
will leave the campus promptly 
at 10:45.The following, directions are given for the .assembly and march, In the event of good weather. TheKiltie Band and II. O. T. C. will meet in the road in front of Industries Building; _ the Executive Doard, in Dr. Guild's Office; Student Council, in Room 104, Industries Building; Faculty, the first floor corridor, Industries' Building, head at main entrance: Scholarship 
Holders, in the basi: corridor.
PROGRAM
Piece Hroque Edward Herman Jolie, A. B. 1933 Invocation
l;SuiteJn-Gtnia3or-i:,...-.BacK  Under the'direction- of professor-O'Brien 
Address' ,Sir Willmott Harsant Lewis Washington Correspondent of 
The London Times Orchestra, Department of
Music, March............,............Royland Earl .Wild
AnnouncementsCharges Watkins, Ph.D.. Acting' President, Carnegie Institute of Technology Award of Fraternity, Sorority and Dormitory Schol* 
arshlp Cups Eta Kappa Nu Call
Raymond Patrick- Hanna 35 Alma Mater.. J. Vick OBrien Words by Charles J. Taylor. Organ Postlude............Mulet
Industries Building, lower trancc; air seniors first floor < rldor, industries Building, W end nearest Carnegie Library; all juniors,, first floor corridor, Indus- iiiWlcig iit WAT of-tfie.-9.JW-iors;. sophomores, i
end, nearest Carnegie Library; and All fros>]uiro&, second-floes-corridar,
Industries Building, rear of the 
sophomores. . ...In case of Tain the'march will be omitted and the assembly of students will take in.the Foyer o| Carnegie Music Hell. Siena viU be pOBted showing where- the different groups will assemble.Captain Reginald Whitaker will serve as chief marshal. The faculty marshals are Professors Kirkpatrick, Patterson, Mlchener. and Slanton, Mr. E. K. Collins, and Lieutenants Burton and Tower. - The R. O. T. C. marshals include Robert <B. Roberts, cadet colonel- (Continued On Page Three)
Pi Tau Sigma Has 
Initiation Rites
I
William B. Skinkle 17 Talks 
Oo -'Economic--Sag.1
dress. He'spoKo on '^cbhOmic Bh' Kineerlng." Mr. Skinkle attended Carnegie night school for fifteen years and holds among his certlfl- calcst- master- and- professional- de-. 
trees in mechanical engineering.Charles E. Crede '35. president of Iota chapter of PI Tau Sigma welcomed the new members. 'Fred S. Dubiri *35, spoke in behalf of the new members.Tlte following men .were_iiuiti- 'aYed 'Wed'S. Dubin 35, Harry'TS'. 
Fusscrald 35. Erwin H. Bauer 35, George B. Harvey '35, Warren M. Wilson 35 Fdwarfl F- Cullen 3G, and Robert W. Halli '36." Tau Sterna has eighteen na<
fihip and character-''
V
Plays At Dance
Merely Trying to Avoid 
Unpleasant Publicity, 
States Council
DELEGATES NAMED 
FOR CONFERENCE
Plebes Hold 
Annual Dance. 
Friday Night
Dick Gaerlncts Band 
Will Supply Music; 
Tickets Are $1.25 .
vited are: Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick; Mr. and Mrs. Ke&t Shaffer; Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Warner; Pro- Mrs. W. Work;. Dr:Mrs. L. Schultz; Mrs. Parker; Miss Grover; Professor and Mrs. W. Readlo; Dr. and Mrs. OBilan; Pn> fessor and Mrs. Ellis.
The list of patrons Includes: Dr. Thomas Baker; Dean Mary Watson' Dean Glendinning Keeble; Dean, and Mrs. Arthur Tai" and Mrs. Charles Watkins;and Mrs. Roscoe Ihrigg; Mi and Mrs. Webster Jones; Mr. an Mrs. Alan Bright.
Robert A. Zeldman, freshman president of College of Finechairman - of the dance,- Louise Pace of Margaret Morrison ii chairman, and Raymond Zelgler of College of Engineering is chairman
Bicker, Dana to Be Present I 
At Student Federation 1 
Meeting in Boston
At the meeting, of Student" Coun
cil last week 'William Landsberg. 
editor of the Tartan, moved that 
the rule passed by Council two keeks ago on straw votes be rooked or revised. He claimed that -be felt It was bis duty os editor, of the Tartan to try to obtain a relocation of the rule whicto-forbids any straw voles on campus with- it the approval of Student CounMr. Landsberg maintained that the rule takes from the paper one of its primary rightsfreedom of the press, and that the Tartan aild have no guarantee that per mission would always be granted for any straw vote' It might want in. Mr. Landsberg expressed opinion that Council is trying to keep Itself from being questioned on any action it might take. ' Rule Protects Council Mr. Becker, president of Student Council, maintained, that the rule merely affords Council a means of self-protection. Rollin V. Davis, executive secretary, pointed out the fact that an important purpose behind the rule is to enable Council to veto aDy prospective strai votes which it deems' unworthy i intent. He also stated that Sti dent Council, as te direct reprt sentativeB of the student body, should by all rights have this 
power.Mr. Landsbergs motion for revocation of tho rule was defeated. r -Student-/Council, has voted . seh'd* 'delegates to the annual ci ference of the National Student Federation of America; to he held___ year in Boston, Mass.. fwDecember 29 to January 1. Wllintersorority 
Council Plans; 
T odaysChapel
Dr. Schuyler Garth Talkd 
To.Worshipers at 12:30? 
In Little Theater
Student Council, will Represent Carnegie in tho schools second year of membership ly tho organiDlgest Conducts Poll The-Natlonal federation-.is t'ne largest student government organization in the country. Headquarters of the organization are located in New York, although delegates are sent from schools as far .west as California. Discussion groups at the conference deal with nati al and international questions Carnegie joined the N. S. F. A. - - *-------.nd
Washington, D.______For severalyears previous, vtsitlng delegates had attended the annual meetings. Council, has granted^ permission to the Literary Digest to conduct a jjeace poll on the campus. lots will be sent ( dividual her 1.
Survey of Ticket Situation 
. Ai~IMtle Theatre^ Is~Made
Plans Are Proposed That Would Increase Chance 
Of Obtaining Tickets and Would Insure More 
Proportionate Distribution of Them
For some time many have made the statement that there has been perpetually a sign in the registrars office that sdys "No Tickets today. On _CHA basis the Tartan stsrtM an investigation of the 
situation.It was learned from Professor Kenyon, head of the Department of Drama, that the Little Theater is supported to a verv large extent by subscriptions sold  to various, people thoroughout the city. I It were not for this income added to that already received from the school, the Little Theater could jy>t-x/?5nflln. in. RRLE_ Sterice. with any. semblance of the activity which It has today; These subscribers have the right to tickets for any performance. Besides these are the tickets which go to the fa.culty.j Also each student taking part in the play is given four tickets while i th'e:-romatain-'Dsaroa. 6ludants..W:l 
.celve two apiece. ]
The Little Theater has enough seats for three hundred and ninety neoplo -..With- tbes<% facts,.ip mind the Department of Drama made an agreement some time back wJtli Student Council to send over to the Administration/ Building for <nMbntk>n to the student body, thirty tickets for every evening n^rfnrrnance excent Friday and Saturday lfigti't perfofifitfhiieB. -hv thesfl two davs sixty tickets would fcfe alotted tn the students.Pi^ncr. <* dffflcnH. nro1'1^ in t.e 
distribution of these tickets, be- of the sfnrclty of tickets available for stwfl*!. the dn>ma department has tried to send over more ticket* than the prescribed
amount.whenever possible. For i
Carnegie Welfare Drive
Tops $3,958 Mark
U9.90 CONTRIBUTED 
BY 2,158 STUDENTS
Chapel service will be held in 
Ihe. Little Theater, College of Fine 
Arts, at 12:30 today. Dr. SchylerE..Garth of the Christ Methodist 
Episcopal Church will speak on | 
"How Shall I Act?. A vocal duet entitled "Thou Art, O God, the .Life and Light by Mozart will be sung by Marie A.1 Matter 35 and Milton Berlin 36, both- of the Department of Music: mens and womens Glee Clubs been asked to attend and lead in the singing of the hymns...The service hus been arranged by lutersorority Council. This is in conjunction with the policy of the Y. M. C. A. to have the cliapel services sponsored by various organizations on .the campus In an attempt to stimulate an interest imocg Che student body.Pr. (ianli is listed in Whos Who in America. He was pastor of the First Avenue Church in St. Petersburg, Florida, before coming to Pittsburgh two years ago. He. received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Baker University In 1922.The next chapel service will be the Carol service. . Tho Department of Music is In charge of this service. They will arrange their own program.
W. S.O. Names 
Ballet Helpers
McNaughton, Director, 
Reports Progress
Committees intended'to assist in arranging for the presentation of the Ballet that is to be given 11 1 and 2"ander the sponsor-1
A list if the committees with their chairmen follows: Publicity: Eleanor Sherman, chairman. Gwen Haddock/ Mary Wettach. Posters Madolin Vautrlnot, chaiiman, Sue Fuller, Isabel Shelton, Julia Hubbard. Patrons: Betty McGregor, chairman, Marcella Wlthum, gam Barr, Katherine Davis.
Campus Sale of Tickets: Martha
Blame for Poor Showing Laid 
To Failure of Canvassers 
To Report Donatioos
Ou Saturday noon the total 
amount received from the students 
.and faculty of the school and the 
'Staff of Carnegie Institute was $3,- 
95S.-00, representing subscriptions 
from. 489' persons. Last week at 
the same time $2,464 had beon sub
scribed. Saturdays ilgureB reveals an advance of $1,4$4 dining the week.Although the Welfare Drive was officially closed InBt Friday,, the Campaign has .been extended for one week. Tho purpose of the extension was to make it possible tor the school and Carnegie Instl- to reach the $6,000 goal and tor the directors and their assist- nts in the drive to contact those 'ho have not turned in their pledge
$49.90 Reported From StudentsMrs. L. J. Mboro, faculty treasur- i- in the campaign, reported $2,907 from 323 members of the faculty and.staff of the school. Mr. Rollin ivls .student treasurer, reported $49.90 had been collected and turned in from the students. Mr. George F. Shears reported $1,001 for 166 members of the staff of Carnegie Institute.StudPnts who have not turned in their pledge cards should do now, either through the director In charge of their particular departDemms, chainClara Weller,
James McNaughton '35, who will direct tho Ballet, in an address at tke last"meeting ' Of tUb urgalia:- Uon stated that rehearsals will begin in two weeks,. and that the choreography and scenery are no\ being prepared/ Of tho member of the Department of Drama taking
for the presentatic written by Eearl Wild . wh Chauncey. Kelly arranged, the chestratlon. While It Is. knownthat the Ballet will he- presentedoff the campus, au^auditorlum has not yet been decided-upon.. Is Cft-ooeratlve Movementwere four performances-in which The Ballet is ~ a co-operatlv.thirty tickets were given to the, movement, since the presidents of' '  'er-jall the womens organizations on formances and sixty for one per-1 the campus are sponsoring the spring feature through ; the Wo Scholarship Organization.Often there are some ilckets that are not utilized, so at present the Department of Drama is.Tceeping a record of where each aYid every ticket goes' In a short while it is hoped that it will be known if subscribers. faculty members, drama students,- or other members of the indent body are not using their tickets so that those tickets can be put to use.......: " ' ..........................
It is also apparent that the same, group of students receive the tickets for each play, and for these reasons several suggestions have been made for the distribution of the .few^tickets available/for. stuOne suggestion was made that each student be presented with a card containing one number for each, play; to. be given. Whenever he desires to obtain a ticket, he must present this card which will be punched. This will allow each student only one ticket to each nlav and thus enable ninny more Students td obtain admission.Another system, which Is canbe distributed from tho offres of t.i<e denns of the various .colleges. Th number of tickets that each college Is to receive would= depend on the relative amount of students In each college. This woud m- proportionate
distribution of tickets
dent for it is through this means that certain scholarships are p vided for women of both Marga: Morrison and tbe College of Fi
In addition to Miss 'Provost, the
and Sue^Fuller 36; secretary, Agues "Cance+RSre. 35; treasurer,- Julia Hubbard -'3S.
I ' Coming Events
4:30Tartan ClassArts 106. Thursday llrSO^afety Valve Meetlng- E. Hi 113.' 12:30-Womens Debate Union Room 103, Margaret Morrison. 4:00-5:'30Open House
Laurel Halls.<3ar-tcr.Hour^-wwSW.Friday
Mid-semester.
Unofficially Extend Time 
One Week in Effort 
To Reach Goal
t-urn their' pledE'ecaTdsatfd 'snb- scrlptlons to Mrs. L. J. Moore, faculty treasurer , in the campaign. Members of. the staff of Carnegie Institute should turn in their cai*ds and subscriptions to George F. Shears, auditor of Carnegie Instlgeneral chairman, and George Rial, Veronica Kloos, and Wilfred Slo cum as the chairnrian In the three colleges have the following assistWilliam Bayers. William Wlegm&n, William Ralston, John Nevlson, William Sharp, Charles Crede, Francis Glolma, Donald Ashbaugli, Neal Vinson,
Tau Beta Pi 
Holds Pledge 
Dinner at Inn
^ard to Be Presented 
For Prize Theme 
At Banauet
Initiation 'held tills afterat 4:30 p. m. for the 
plodges of Tau Beta Pi, 
s national engineering honorat CAi-negle. The ceremony, 
which is to be held in the Faculty 
Clubroom, will be followed by a 
banquet at the Carnegie Inn.
Plans for the banquet are under 
the direction of 0. H. Hackman and 
A. C. Byers, co-chairmen. Prof. II. 
S. Hower has been selected ns 
toastmaster And will introduce tho 
speaker of the evening, Mr. R. J. 
S. Plgott. Mr. Plgott is a graduate 
of Columbia University and was S 
member of the Nev York Alpha chapter of Tau Beta PI while in attendance there. He Is now connected with'tlie Gulf Research Laboratory in Pittsburgh In the capacity of staff engineer.
 Pledges Write Theme Each year Tau Beta i pledges to wrlto a designated Bubji tho subject selected.............. >loyment." AtProf. Hower to tbe author ,o be the best, onslsled of a
vill present n prize ofcthe theme judged Last years award t leather traveling cas The first chapter of Tau Deta PI was organized at Lehigh University in 1835. At llto present time theie are a total of 67 chapters. The Carnegie chapter has been in r^sfaifee'-,,HIfra*-PfebiOrafiy, VJX.6.
Call Three Juniors Tau Beta PI wishes It tobe known that it is customary to call only the three most outstanding
definite limit to the bumber of juniors that may be called. The election of both the Juniors
cal'ed during the fall interviews and will he initiated In the ceremony tonight are as follows: juniors: R. W. Dennison, L. W. fngold, J. E. McKee; seniors: D. L. Ashbaugh, W. E.Bayers. J. E. Bom, H. E. Fitzgerald, J. Wm Herron, A. R. Kommel, H. L. King, R. A. McConnell, P. S. Melllnger, J. A. Nevlson, H. R. Patterson. F. E. Rath. H. A. Thom' as. J. W. Wsgcnseil, and R. E.
Arthur Brisbane Is Loud in 
His Praise of Pittsburgh
Enter pris ing. Reportar 
Gets Two Minutes 
For-In tc rview
By Harold 8aer
Grey, gay, gallant, garrulous, Arthur Brisbane, the highest paid and most widely read newspaper columnist, in Ameripa . took, Pl.tt?-. burgh by storm last Friday.
Following the old Hearst prlnclPlttsburgh, /'The city represents the Industrial genius of America.' The Mellon Institute, It finds out about things and t$lls American Industry about them. The Aluminum Company of America, If war comes, the country will be grateful to Andrew W. Mellon for providing the worlds greatest aluminum-supply. The American-'Institute of Chemical Engineers, "Able citizens, the sort that* build up a country and get 'slim thanks for it. Pitt Cathedral, The grandest thing in Pittsburgh.1' Carnegie Institute of, Technology, Magnificent Institution tfiaf tjaib'sadults in '------------ ,-*- toriesinumerable labora. Only the NRA suffered adverse criticism, when Brisbane said, Th NRA - will fade but that thing,, (the Cathedral-of Learning)' will..st ill. b$...poln^a symbol of-education. v Seeking an Interview with the' famous Journalist, your reporter set out on Mr. Brisbane's trail after his speech at -tfcee banquet of tlvo American Institute of. Chemical Engineers. 'By accident I hapifen- ed to encounterhie.secretary first and taking advantage' of this chance meeting I proceeded to find out something about Mr. Brisbanes ahiis... Jn. ib.e. -ftrst: p.ler.e, not write, he dictates. From a quarter of four to twenty-five after, each day, Brisbane is at work on the column. Sometimes It even takes him five minutes longer. He pl^'avs Ms hand, five reference B'hl> ' and lour others. I full, of wise sayings.
Interfraternity Council Lists 
Dates for Restricted Period
Rushing Rules in Booklet Form Were Presented,
Interpreted for Plebes. at l ast Freshman 
Assembly by Allen E. Risedorph
The fliimifll Imtcnuty rush nig- season begins t 12:00 noon 
next. Sunday and lasts until Sunday, December 9, nt 0:30. Dur
ing this time there are three distinct periods, restricted, con
tact, and open rushing periods.
Dates for the four-duy restricted period, beginning Sunday 
and ending at 9:00 p. in., "Wednesday, have been arranged un------------------------ ?>ler tho direction of. the Intorfratef-nily Council. Each of the eighteenPlay Directed 
By Mr. Payne 
Opens Dec. 5
Troilus and Cressidu'VIs 
Shakespeare Revival 
For This Year
"Troilus and Cressldo. now in 
rqhonrsal under B. Iden Payne, will 
start its run of twolvo porformonces on December S. Tho annual 
revival of .Shnkesnearo has been, 
made by the Department of Drama 
during the pust twenty years In 
April, about tho runo of the poote 
birthday, but will take place this 
year early next month.
summer. While reports in tho pross and in magazines indicate that the Elizabethan style of staging Slmkespeare was< a discovery
pleasure of recognizing that the whole Idea come from the Little -T-heater- at. Carnogle. -They noted that Thomas.Wood
:C Glebein the English village. They saw the Elizabethan stage which Mr. Payne had used here for olght years, and they recognized former Carnegie students In the casts. The Globe Theater Company' is now playing In McVlcars Theater,
Troilus and Cresslda will .bring the total nuinber of revivals of Shakespeare in the Llttlo Theater to twenty-four. Ever since April,
birthday. This year, however, tho date has been advanced to enable Mr. Payne to assume direction of
Carnegie A. I. E. E. 
Holds Second Meeting
Carnegie branch of the
Company, gave i eration of the local branch of the A; I. S. TC. and the duties of tin electrical engineer... He was accompanied by Mr. Reardon, . an electrical engineer connected w-fth -tho W-eet Tonn Power .Company; who gave a talk on^the.application of breakers and relays to Industry. Professor Por-  discussed future plans for the
after which refreshments
ARTHUR BRISBANE 
Finally meeting Mr. Brisbane himself I managed to hold hlB attention for two minutes. My first qbea tloD'-wac -a-v ffe&acia- -as -editor of the Daily Mirror, what do
accomplish, eithc A . good half minute was wasted In recovering " frdiii this. . Then, What .do you think is-wrong with
"That certainly-le---a great deei,- slr. Will you kindly explain that statement?'The whole face of the paper is wrong. The paper reflects those that read it. If you look Into a mhTor and do not like the reflecbut take steps to change the face. This is. what must bo done to our papers."Ard with that b^Ief discourse on the fallings of todays newspaper, erey. gay. gallant, garrulous.Arthur) Brisbane was off ; apd ; away-.to
Survival of Fittest
Is Next Debat Topic
Majorle Weinman,34, will take (charge of the next' meeting of the I Womens Debate Union, Thursday,
111 be discussed generally by the^oupatferMlss'Welnhiah'de^ velops her viewpoint of the subject.This group meets every Thursday In Room 103, Margaret Morrison College at' 12:30. All women or Carnegie are Invited to attend and join in_t_he Informal discussion.
hand-shake^ another. city..:

Scotch LpsnfeAyr P^'nntt Plano SoloRiver Medley We Scotch Lassie
.Announcer:,^Carl M. Dozer...SMi
Freshmen oivo their lists this week.
Rushing Booklets Distributed Intorfraternlty Council rushing, ooklots wero distributed to tho lebee at tho last freshmnn ussem- lv. Allen E. Risedorph, fnoulty dviser of tho I nler fraternity
handbook. The rushing booklet tho rulos governing initiation and rushing, purpose of a fraternity. .and the .high and low costs .' irnlLy membership. Thoso
ilone mny make a date with' a.: rushes Jor nny time during the re-r Irlcted period. During the restricted rushing period, .each fra*> nlty* except Beta Sigma Rho, will havo only one dut,e with each" eshman. The Council is allowing ila Slgmn Rho to liavo two dates Ith each nichee.Restricted Rushing .The foui *   -
period givos the fresh it portunity of choosing the three; (
. The silence period, beginning
rther nid thd freshzc&s^;; In considering several fraternities/'. Horetofort there has-been n re- strlcted rushing period to. give the>-'
rlod, the (nterfratemlty rushing committee will consider three*- dates each day. They are lunch,-- dinner, and the evening smoker. : the latter to be over by 8:30 r'. o'clock.The rules that dominate this ' rushing season were adopted by.
hoped that difficulties :. year by both thewith this plan many difficulties
ies for tbe fraternltlei tact and date the rushees for.the/ 'pen rushing beginning at 4?30,  December 3; that the freshmen': will he better ahi* to decide which - flf&tenfutyr'to'pledge. - *
4Y Cabinets Plan 
Thanksgivi ng F ete
Students Expectcd to Make 
Reservations' by Tu^day
The annual Thanksgiving dinner: which Is sponsoved jointly by the Carnegie branches of the Y. M. and
recess. The purpose of the dinner/ /'ii  to give every student an opporr- jitunity to have a dinner in- aThanksgiving atmosphere. .. - -f~.All students who expect to ho ^-present are requested to ' make.'-';/ heir reservations at the Y M C. iA. office just os soon as possible.'///^ ['ATI' reservairdns 'should "be. mad'^ " ^ before next Tuesday afternoon. /;' '/The meal that will be served.Is./.' :;.i a regular 1100 turkey dinner... AI1'/./?r dormitory girls who will be pres:-/'ie ent will get.their meal at no eitra-'c^? charge, as it is includod In their  ' -ft board. All others who attend will 'f 3. The Te-"1 5be .made op *
1?
Mary -B;- 'Wettach :36. represenla^?^^ tives of. the .VY" Cabinet are In . % complete charge of arrangement^;*!
PHr MU ALPHA PLEDGES SIX" T
Phi Mu Alpha, men's national,^' -'->1 musical..honorary fratemitv cem- __S
its fail rushing B^aartn-.lasto-.'i'S Thursday with -the pledging Charles .W. Bincham -37.-: Robert Herbert :3C. David P. -BromaniX'V';Charles C. Raislg. '37, Charles.-^M.. Acjtlftv -35.. and Jam H. Be:
assessed fifty malnder of the bill will t by the Y. M. C.,A.George W. Lambertson .ED and::
35. -, Initiation service: 
Saturda'evnJng.v---
n- H Br?y uill b held ;

---------------------------------------------------

Parking Rules 
Made by City
Streets Near Campus 
Under City Control
LIST BEGUL.iTIONS
Frew Street, Extension Are 
Centers of Controversy
Tbis .the Pittsburgh traffic authorities to prevent any further discord between police and automobile drivers who j;ersist in parting in restricted areas contingent to the Carnegie campus.
Center of tbe parking controversy is Frei ' Street enensio upper entrance of the gym;5.0 Schenley Bridg 
One year ago i find a solution for lb d:Mr. Fraik Orbin. ager bed tbe south Bide of Frew Street lined off to accommodate approximately 100 cars.
Next Tuesday 
Is Dollar Day
Alumni Will Contribute 
To Endowment Fond
ASK COOPERATION
Seven Prcvii-us Campaigns 
\ et Total of $2,225
Next Tuesday, lie day tbe Carnegie Day held.
Dr. lasen Addresses Safety 
Valve on YourMoney's Worth5
Thistle Photos 
Are Due Soon
Speaker Conducts Open 
Forum Discussion 
About Consumer
'beill also be aIpth Dollar On this day acb alumnns wiU be afforded a chance to con- ?ibuie one dollar or more to the Carnegie Endowment Fund.- Dollar Day has become an annual erect at Carnegie. It has been observed for the last 6even years. The largest amount Nnu. iributcd any year was about $700. Last year, bowex-er, tbe total donation was $175. During the seven years that Ihe campaign has been held 52,225 has been raised by Ibe Alumni Federation but more than bait of this was raised tbe first
Dr. B. C. Clausen, of the First Baptist Cbnrcb, 6poke at the regular meeting of tbe Safety Valre last Thursday on Your Money's Worth** and then led a discussion of his talk. He attempted to answer for the group the fundamental question, "Hew to gel what yon
ersal problem. "First,' Clausen said. "You mast >hat you want; second, you : et what von want; and third, you 3ust want what you gel when you
lifficalty. j Haller 27 Predicts Gliding
As Future Means of lravel\
Fund GelMoney
nearest Industries Building and thus made il impossible for those who parked in the assigned spaces, to drive on*. - 
Additional controversy arose when Scbenley Pari police began J2in? cars parted on tbe Industries Building side of Frew Street and in the street in front of Administration Hall Those who received the tickets complained that lie} had parked on school property and the city police had no right to fine Ihem. Many appealed to the business managers office for help.
City Controls Streets 
Mr. Orbin asked the city to make a definite statement with regard to who had jurisdiction over traffic on 'roads passing through and adjoin- - CSal the campus. Tbe city staled 13iat ii bad complete control of all traSc and wools  continue to tag .ears parked in restricted areas. "No parking" signs have been placed along lie north side of '! Frew Street.
'It was further brought tenlaon of school authorities ail.who parked on the cun Frew Street, at the lower end' of industries Building were fiub.ied to a minimum state fine of $10.00 for parking on a curve. Those who narV in the urea before AdmiDisg an entrance, 
ic Lights
Alumnus Tours Europe With German Flyer; Instructs 
Prince of IVales in flying Without Motor; 
Presents Motor to Automotive Lab.
Contributions to the Doll; rund are turned over to the Carnegie Endowment Commi come under the two-for-one agree- lhe Carnegie Corpora- agreement stipul:lha( for
The iis Carnegie's version or the popu of tbe hour. And its all is man August C. "Gus" Haller '27. one of our most illustrious high-flying graduates.
Gus is a native son of Pills- rgh, that is, he didnt see the n uati] he had grown up and aved to other parts. The 29 year old youth is a highly skilled pilot and designer  of aircraft and He presented to the automotive laboratory a two cycle ^hich be had built.
Shortly after leaving Carnegie1927 -Gus
the i
of sixteen the lid. 'Inherent inability to ]
Disbelieving tbe armys dictum. he went to German;
state fine for bloctii
Another traffic knot to be t gled concerns lie timing of signals at the junction of More- Tpood avenue and Forbes street. The large number of student pedes1 the system in use at the junction O Forbes street and Margaret 
jteon.. street.
16 Girls Pledge 
Methodist Sorority
Plan Thanksgiving Meeting 
For Tuesday, Nov. 27
Sappa Phi, national women' 
'Methodisl sorority, pledged M girls 
, at its fall pledging service on 
xesaber 13 in Margaret Morri 
Recreation HalL Frances Good..Tdn, Pitt, -was in charge of the meeting. Six girls from Carnegie were taken in: ' Peggy Richards. ; -Betty Smith, Mary "Weber, EthelMercer, Dorothy Davidson.
' 'Kiiiie
_ Iiding method of pilot training. Robert Kronleld, who is the hold- r of tbe world's soaring altitude ecord, taught Gus how to fly rithout a motor.
While louring tbe continent with iruid>]d, they stopped in England and gave the Prince of Wales his st demonstration of soaring ithoul a motor. While in Ger- any Haller met Wolfram Hirth, tic bolds the worlds distance rec- d for sailplanes223 miles. Haller, Hirth, and a pilot named Marnixsledthe armyd
Five Graduates Enter 
Westinghouse Company
Five Carnegie graduates of 1924 
re now associated with the Wesligbouse Electric  Manufactn: 
:g Company. These men ar mong the forty-four chosen troi 11 over the country to take part i the Westinghouse graduate ent course which "bridges the >n the academic prepar- i engineer!: In the company. represented by more ; many graduates as
i of ; prooucpvi
L? other school. ___
The formeT Carnegie 6todem ire: Harvey T. Harrod, Depart-nent . of Electrical Engineer >avid J. Hutton, Department of Commercial Engineering; James E. Stahl, Department of Electrical Engineering; Henry C. Westin. Department of Mechanical EugineerSchempp ortzed one of tbe -the Haller, Hirth Sailplane Corporation.
When Gus returned to Amer- a in .1929 he. entered his German designed and rebuilt ship in the First National Gliding and soaring itest. .The sleek, gray ship with the former Cynegie student at th<
Haller is one of the directors of the Soaring Society of which sponsors the annual glider meets at Elmira. N. Y. Stud! who belong to tbe Carnegie Gl: Club will receive their flight, struction from Gus. He expeels the Camrgle club
college clubs impetit
d oliaiby194G for the Carnegie Endowment Fund two dollars cbool, provided four million dollars has beenand 194G the money collected will be invested and will draw interest, so that one dollar intributed now will be increased nsitierably by 1946."
Porter OrginsteB Plan The Dollar Day plan was origi- ited by John L. Porter, chairman of lhe Committee on the Institute of Technology and a trustee of Carnegie. The campaignid to alumni only but includes all friends of the school Contributions can be made at any time during tbe year, and still be acTheta Tau Alters 
Rules for Award
New Qualifications Are Made 
To Increase Standards
TAU DELTA :HOLDS TEA
__Sunday, November IS, a Leafor freshman women of the Jewish faith was held al the Tau Delta Phi house. The tea was held in collaboration with Phi Delta Mn sorority. Mr. Ray Hurd, director oE English aad Dramatics at Shady- side Academy read an original play. Among the guests
Mr. Haler is enthusiastic and timistic about lhe future of.avia- m. He maintains that we will .in the near future just as we  drive in automobiles. Glidt also teaches pilots facts about wind and weather. Most authorities admit that the design of Tnotorless ships is years in advance of the powered airplane.
Gus saye that be feels safer in a glider than in an automobile. He has made only one parachute jump from a falling ship. In all of his instructing be has never
The world's record distance flight for g'iders is 223 miles, the altitnd< record ts 8.494 ieet, and the en durance record is 37% hours.
Arts Grad Paints 
Welfare Poster
OVV What You Want
advertising," he said, almost impossible for
ally; for; possible to get it
poiDt where v
agedy in mode: m, is that we always want what e dont have. We must reach a content from have rather than discon- t for things we have noLhis feeling of content with inaiai possessions is of course hard to acquire with the world of busi s armed as it is to stimulate content. As an example of th< y in which advertising stirs disteni, he quoted the example of the American Tailors Associ "- They have made an announcement sar that they plan antidv' campaign that will make impossible for a tbti to maintain bis self-Tespect without ; and six overcoats.
'Jeed Intelligent Coneu 
e must learn to apply onal purchases as much scien- selectioo as
C. Eisaman Chosen Artist 
For 1934 Charity Drive
Tech graduate. Miss Catherin1 Eisaman, '23. of &t. Washington.Tbe artists for these annual Community Fund poster? . are chosen on a competitive basis.
from the field of :ial artists to paint the poster for the current drive. Thi Is tbe first year for some time tbat ; Pittsburgh artist has been chosen
graduating from tbe De : of Painting' and Design. Miss Eisaman has been doing geiral twork, and
Business Staff Report 
Sale of 180 Copies
Only ten more days remain for seniors to make arrangements for Thistle pictures. All arrangements
by the Parry studios in the Hotel illiam Penn.A member of the Thistle staff will be in the "Y office every noon from 12:30 until 1:30 and on Wednesday afternoon after 3
Carnegie Institute 
Offers Free Talk
Series of Radio Lectures 
Are Also Arranged
leraing naltua] history 
This year the lnstitute has also ar- inged a series ol radio talks.
Dr. Owes Howe will speak Sunday, November 25 at 2:15 in thc
At tbe present ts approximate*
materials.develop in- Qt. informed buyers in this of sellers. The Consumers is fulfilling lion in pub
lishing results of laboratory tests or current products.Dr. Clausen believes that in reality we need.very few things for hapciaess, and that except foi
studioCeeman Building.While in Carnegie, she member of Tau Sigma Delta, Arts School Honorary, and was active in poster work of all types, from those for campus activities to commercial advertisements and contests.Miss Eisaman submitted several sketches lo tbe Committee for approval. one of them depicting a bumble laborers; but the present drawinc was chosen because of the universal appeal oi the neglected chiid to emotional sympathy. This sketch has been lying in her studio partially finished for nearly a year, and she had not originally intended to submit it, since its' scheme was so similar to that of last years poster.Miss Eisaman does much of her work from imagination, instead of nsing concrete models. In her Community Fund poster, the small boy representated is a fusion of many individual children, and not any one child in particular.
250 sittings have been scheduled. There are 450 seniors who are entitled -to representation In tbe 1939
make reservations, wbo - have not received nolice should consull with a member of the Thistle staff in the T'^office.180 Copies Sold On Saturday the business stall reported an advance sale of ISO copies of tbe annual. Taitau ]>laid will again be used as Jie covering ial for tbe Carnegie Thistle, aason given for this selection despread approvalThe
CWENS PLANNING DANCE
;uppei
Several changes in the rules go^ erning the choosing of the most promising senior engineer been contemplated by Theta Tau, national professional engineer:
ie placed on such iward wotdd be 'an ideal and an aspiration for all of the-students it Carnegie.
landard, a suggested list of additional requirement and qualifications has been drawn up aDd referred to a committee consisting of Robert C. McMasters *36, John 5 Bora *35, and Bernard Wester- lan 35.The approved list of new re- ?iremenls will be added to a set f eight qualifications which has been in the p&st the standard for Lg tin
cholarship, dependability and regularity, appearance, expression, health and vigor, and Crateraity affiliations. Rnrollroent in one of the engineering departments .of the College of
pos-j^ance at-the Universitv Club The-! University Place, next* Saturda; 
,-eal way of getting rich is learning | November 24,to want less .and less as we gee i Tlie orchsslra which plays reg- older. rather than getting more | ulariy at the club will also p'av for and more. the Cwens. Mis3 Catherine WlegelHe concluded b.v saying that all 37. Department* of PainliDg ar ' of our quarrels and wars are | Design. Cwen social chairman, : caused by fights over things that j in chaTgo of the event.
ing the course of which Dr. Clausen
eries of lectures and discussions eginning next week by peopl presenting tbe varioi d ; political philosophies.
rded the Plaid binding of last
There will no motif about which e art work will center. Instead, black and white theme of con- ist will pervade the book. Tb*e t work will be of tbe^scraicb- board style. A distiDciJjr ro.iiiem- : trend is being followed in lay- and design.
Carnegie Lecture Hall <Adv{
Thursday - S:15
Swaziland.'' evening, November 29,William C. Vogt  will speak Fishing and tbe Great Outdoor^ ii. Graham Netting, Carnegie Museum, will speak on Barro Colo- rado Thursday evening 8:15, cember 20.
Dr. F. W. Miller, Section of Entomology, will give a lecture over WCAE November 26 on Insect Migration.'* He will elaborate oo 'Aquatic Adaptations of HnrNeN_g
Mrs. 31. Burnell Visits 
Dept. of Social Work
Work and Faculty Wednes- an informai luncheOD Carnegie Inn. Mrs. Bumett, who i9 bead of- lhe Department of Social Work, has been granted a year's leave of absence Director of Training foi
Student Directory Sale 
Continues at Y Office
r those studen
, but who ha- . Dot yet done so, copies of the publication will remain on sale at the Y. M. C. A.. office in Industries Building and at the Y. W.
re interest "Valve which he ________ .cf the experimental temper of this \ reering Hall 113, Dr. Raschen, bead 
generation. He  ................. ^ ^
iPTT>g Virginia Heid, Fiances Dins- dore, Evelyn Galbreath, Josephine . Savaee. Bessy Marshall, Harriett 'SMEfien. Getaldisc Dr&T>. iAy llea RummelL
The president of Kappa Phi
G-E Qflmpus Nmy
office in Mer{. several weeks. Tbe selling pi is ihirty-five cents, ig j The Student Directory conu information regarding the student body and its activities. It contains of the names of everydent enrolled at Carnegie, his home and school address, telephone number, department, and class. It
First Trinity 
Lntheran Church
WELCOME
27G2-7
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
5150 $13.50 
. 6.50 15.30 
5.50 9.90
and
all points from coast 
to coast.
For further 
infoimatiou call
COurt 9500
r/t&ems
Valley Forge3 Tickets 
May Still Be Obtained^
. - - Tictois are still obtainable' at reduced rates for Valley Forge," ihp .play by Maxwell Anderson that is belng produced by the Theater 1 jgond at the Nixon Theater. J -Tickets are available for every] sight beginning with tonight. J gyyial rates for matinees ar, avsulahle Prices are as follows: Orchestra ($2.75 at the box office); balconv $1.65 ), $L10 ]4)r $L5 ' ^'SSeSona^'"tafi-i
For many years, the old ceotrai beatmg j at Mt. Holyoke College, in MaaaaduiBeUs, its till, unsightly smokestacL, haired tbe wy
Eommer the old boihn and the .smokestack were tom down. In one of the bnildinge of lhe dd plant stand 120 General Electric 1 fartwo more (^ cui mtaces are installed in (t mnllw or mare isolated boll dings of the cam-ESSTfa? S&idant, only" as many gronps of fornai^ will
steam pressare. sm nemainda will be drat down, av<ttding stand-by loases- The indi  gBDup-. ia
toT the distribution network. The high efficiency
of latitude, f&rthest apart. Gove
apolis   |.. ^ .I-------- jetnnfj* Star. Immediately afterward, the Coffee Honse Qul>, ab organLieUon of artists and writos to which Rockwell Kent belongs, sent moac and greetings from New York to him oo the island of UbekjenL, just off the coast of Greenland. 600 miles within the Arctic circle. Features of ^ program were special Greetings from Mrs. Kat and her dao^hto, and a iIk in the Eskimo language by Vuhjal- Tr.sr SteSanssco, Arctic- erplorer, fot the benefit of the natives. Both pr&rrams were broadcast over a coast-to-coast NsC attwort as well as by short waves.
. ,.. .it gives the 
tobacco, an extra 
flavor aitd a coma
rtK "POWER LANF- ...........as discovered in 1925 along the Bulla i New Gninea, h land just parth cf the H*  nil.  UwT^ist J>anji QiAustralia. Prospeciors worked ihr. tkbcr btnA
by hand methcJ J----1 * *v"p ***" *the backs of
that health conditions at the college wl be o
The nuL plufi f<r the sjttan woe drawn roS
 C. W. Colby, consulting engineer. D. W.cLenecan, Wassonsn, "2L, asslant engaeet of tbe-air CoDilMQig Dtpartmeiit; W. Q. lama, and H.. B. Grago, Pout Stats, *18, both of. litt same department, handled engineering details for.Goiaal Electric.
TWO POLES IN ONE
Bailo CQtcrtainmezit and ainnaiT* h:
be brought to the HLNroBnR Laud potation was impossible, so * pia in. Tbe pilot found a spot to land, field was cleared o!L Four 875-kv-a. Genital Eleci '
the Aabntc ilmmfh Gen_____ ___ . ... EleotfcV siiort-wav feiarion e\- ante -Rear Admira) Byrd arrived there last year.- "lenUy, in conjunction wilh a Byrdiths was senlout to Sodvdl Kent and his the Arctic regionthus linking smullong the cqmpm 1 at Lae, they 1 Huge sH-metl Junkers fraght piai
' bTI "aod Down to the loati^
Craost/ tht la,*ufartXoUgb r "un.-
,1
n&* in a f:accr' et >t<rurr , P-ie-bun, 
no/lr
Q^CCO,
pounds. As the load limit of the planes is /000 . poonds, it was a tight tqnteu. D. B. Gearhart, Iowa State, s27, of lntematrcsal Gsieral Electric, Inc-, handled the order for the Company.96-GFBI
GENERAL ^ ELECTRIC*
packageWc
We ris/i in some aw &'c amidh't 
every man zoho smokes a pipe 
to just tij Granger

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 20, 194
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
 @
BY JERRY HANSON
Tartan Style 
Bewilders Foe
IMcM,vHpWcHhpk WpI csM I_dMf ;M,M IhpM OtwR The Tar
sus finally got the breaks, both In the weather and the game itself, 
od took advantage of them to the extent that the Big Bluffs will probbl>- lose a -bid for.a charity game wltli Miami.
perhaps It was-the sun which- bothered the Night. Ridersthey are 
at used to the daylight, you knowor perhaps lhe size of tbe Stadium 
bad something to do with It; the Dukes have never won' a Stadium 
game Whatever the cause, they resembled an Ashland team we have 
beard of. In comparison to what they thought they could do.
And all this to the tune of thirty-five thousand! Buddy Overend is 
till beaming. And'so is Harpster, for Coach Howards stock has gone 
up noticeably,  . i ; J. . I
rather INTERESTING COMMENT MIGHT be made on a 'phone call 
vwhich the Carnegie mentor received from our Hllitopper friends the 
night before the game! It seems that Joe Bach would have been satis* 
'Ifled with six points, butyou know how It isyou ju6t cant hold the 
'-iJboys back when thyre 6o enthuslasticl
lTA_c WHAT A. DAY, WHAT A GAME! The entire team was so good 
;^that it's very difficult to point out the outstanding players. The aver- Tige game of'the individual Tartan player rates All-American mention. 
^ The organization which' has heretofore been missing in the Plaid 
'^machine came through. Successful blocking permitted the effective uAr 
 'Cf tbe light Carnegie backs, who took advantage of the situation with 
'idynamic action. The Sklbo pass defensive covered every move the 
 Duke* made when they took to the air;'the ground fort was nob bnly 
^strong- but mobile, ond Carnegie forces were able to break, up any 
;,J"atruttlng on the part of the Hilltoppera with shocking effect.
I Big Dutch Croft played lhe game which justifies the appearance of 
hlu picture beading the section of this district in the Annual Football 
magazine. Dutch was through there like a tornado, tossing the Dukes 
back as you and I would handle a playful pup. Henrlon (watch him 
nationally In a year or so) was dragging down the biggest ones, to 
come-up laughing like it was swell fun. I, for one, shall never forget 
that tickle'of the Chttrletoi flaBh executed after his kickoff in the sec
ond half. Dynamite! Lewis was slashing through interference all 
afternoon,-.and even after injury continued the stellar performance 
which has got him commendation from several outstanding. national 
mentors. Sputzle Terebus, in spite of his injured hand, maintained his 
running performance at high caliber and added a beautiful'exhibition of 
catching the punted ball. Heads-up playing by Trbovich was notice
li able. He played with a taped-up neck. His pasB Interception came 
.darn close to being ft touchdown. Kelljr did very well in covering the 
guard hole left open by ChyznewBkls injury. Swede Carlson (we saw 
his better half reproduced in the Saturday Sun-Tele) played a great 
game n th defensive, and supported the offensive with clever blockBill Spisak, after consistently gaining, pulled a leg muscle when 
the ball was in scoring position, and he was forced to leave the field. 
_ _ Joe Mibm surprised us' with the neatest field goal of the century, 
high through the middle. Joe did his beet work at smearing the Duke 
ends so completely that tbe Bluffltes were extremely bewildered,, to 
the least Doloway may be given credit for breaking up the Dukes fawto strutting play. Cliff was there with full steam up to recover the 
fumbled, punt which- brought the Plaid a tidy gain. Big Hearted Dolly 
given the ball after.the game, but he declined the oval in favor of 
Lewis, In view of the latters excellent exhibition.
FOR THE UKS WERE RIGHT THERE with the goods, and 
eredit It to be taken away from the Individual stare. Strutt was plenty 
a, and undoubtedly one of the best His Initial play marked hlm i 
champion.- And Ed Zanleskl did 0me of the best passing this dlstrlswill ever get to see. Zanleski heaved 'em long, tow and swift, and they 
pame uncomfortably close to the Intended target. The masked player, 
Gates was no aloueh, either.There was a certain amount of dirt seen In the playing on each 
> but most of It Is excusable when It is realized Just what was at 
take. This referee took care of that which was inexcusable, early in 
the game, quick like a mouse.
lilERB WERE A LOTTA PEOPLE glad to lose the money they 
had placed on the game. It is a poignant lesson to Red Collins, who 
jgehould be well on his way lo South America by  
! Duke followers
And a heck of 
, looking mighty blue, before the first half
Fighting Scotch Spirit 
Outclasses Rival
PLACEMENT SCORES
Entire Team Has Redeeming 
Class in Local Upset
nnd outscored a highly touted band of grldders (romiDuquesne to retain second place In the three cornered city championship scrap. A crowd
favorite' take a surprise defeat the underdog who was given 'to ten chance to win. Tartans Outgain Dukes
netted Tech 67 yards. The Ski- bos tried 16 passes, completing 4 for 31 yards but not having one intercepted. j
UmesJoe Mihm had little use for his long punts but had to worry ly about trying to put them down in thetinIt goinglooked like the Duki to be put In the pocket. Everything was working right for the Tartans and if things had clicked es smoothly all season, many of the scores of other games mightlooked smarter for the Skibos. 
Mihme Placement Seores The Tartans had a. scoring op
on them with that final punch.,ihe start of the fourth quarter Doloway and Trbovich hit Gates a  caught Mlhm's punt and in
Terebus who had just been replaced
running attack: The Tartans .drew a flve-yaxd penalty. for excess!' lime , hut when Stevie' started he got sine, five, and a'half on three 
plays. Freddy Lehmcm cinched the first down on the next play when he went through for five. A pass
However, on the third play he jockeyed the ball to a position directly In front of lhe goal posts.the sixteen and
Tartan Boolers 
Held To 0-0 Tie
1[T0 HEAR THE BOYS TALK you would think that the Panther had 
if tetter go Into, hibernation rather than meet the Plaid grid combination 
for the annual Thanksgiving classic.Pitt will undoubtedly outclass Carnegie, but It will not be to the 
degree expeeted of the Sutherland aggregation. I recall the. game of 
two years ago, and the one before that The Tartan machine will give 
the Pitt club a fine run for its money again this year. All the spirit 
which has been lacking In the Carnegie games before the Duquesn 
Iray cam *>ff-wiU ba let out alnst. the buneh from the other side of 
Forbes We won't v/\n. but we'll put up a fight that will make It look 
like two candidates for the Rose Bowl bid were scrapping It out be, 
tweeirone. another /or a final disfoff. . ,
YOURS TRULY IS GOING TO HAVE HIS BIG OPPORTUNITY over 
the air Thanksgiving eve. Since the subject nearest my heart will 
probably be censored, I'll be giving you a .brief resume of the season, 
with a forecast on next years team and schedule. __________
Womens Athletics
MARGIE GREEN
Congratulations to Martha Ful
ler. Here is an up and coming 
young Maggie Murph who has just 
been unanimously elected to the 
W. ^RR A. Board as Freshman repre
sentative. During her brief two 
months at Carnegie, she has been 
outstanding for that typical Ful
ler actiylty-ism, and undoubtedly, 
Jn.ber .nftj^...aiee.t^...^
*xtQnd it throughout her class. We 
shall be proud to accept her. on the 
Board, an<l will he looking forward 
to her presence at. the next meeting.
In lhe way" of "sojpethlng differ
ent from the popular-play-day Idea 
of entertaining athletic' boards' of 
near-by colleges, we have decided 
fo invite our neighbors iron) Pitt, 
P. C. W., and Duquesne'to dinner 
on Wednesday, December fifth.' In 
this manner, we feel that the girls 
will have. a. better, bpportunity for 
uciiial' discUBsibn' in their various .PW?^.f...WO.r-U:Qc.-i6Ai.T>!.nbject.be*. ing' a .beneflt for all ;by:a mutual cooperation and exchange of ideas.1 J11 99^equehbe; of this special meet- *Qi,:there;-l6 obviously no reason r; the monthly meeting scheduled I rf;,Mpaday,: Decembein. third. 
Lift* WelUch reports that
To**1?* >U ttfopi 1*
popularity this season, 
reek. Several of the eighty somefreshmen participating have al* ready passed their sighting ana 
aiming tests', and/ tackling
actual gun practice. . Here s wishing them plenty of successand may they follow In the footsteps of our illustrious national champion, who at presont, la carefully planning the annual matches with other
Freshmen Hold All....^TaegiePagc^Frt.{
I ~ ContlnaedFnm.Pifn 1'
The members of invitation committee are Dorothy Nuller, Jeatj Malr, and .Henrietta Marsh. The reception committee includes- Martha Lou Fuller, Jane Merrill, Ruth Millikan, and Mary Blle Vilsack, all of Margaret.. Morrison. Paul Karlom and Charles McWilliams of Collge. of Fine Arts are in the poster ' committee. Florence Ing- rfiam 'has charge' of publicity;The members of th ticket committee are: Eleanor Lowry, SaraHower, Sylvia Ravick, Adelaide Aschmann of Margaret Morrison; Wayne Beglln, Manuel Trautea: berg Walter Reid, Emery .Komlos, -Jr.rW-liai O4, TUmeiA BfiKWer, and William Gerhon ^orCollege.jDf 
Engineering; e,*A
Tickets.'may be purchased from 
the ticket committee or at the offlce at |125 per couple
scoreless tie on Saturday at the Carnegie field.' The game rather slow most of the time, but both teams, muffed scoring opportunities on several occasions. Both goalies saw plenty of action on Saturday, bul were able' to prevent any serious attempts at scoring.Carnegie used Kissel at the all- important post of goalie and Prenhls brother.. SiriDoer, Reed, GIol- ma, and Lalli completed the starting line-up. Substitutes' broke into the game for Glolma, Lalll, andPendleton.  ----The Rovers had tho advantage handling the ball in midfield, but lacked a scoring punch. Most of
used the advantage.On last Tuesday the Tattan s
for some time in which Carnegie has not been obliged to play ov< time periods, which seem to be nemesis to the boys. They lost two games recently in overtime periods.There are plans fc Thursday, but arrangements 1 Coach Evans, whose interest and effort have helped the ' deal, is going to - plan games for
. Ticket Exchange .
A final notice is given students for the exchange of tickets for the Carnegle-Pitt football game, to be held in the stadium Thursday, November 29.*
Students, who have not yet exchanged their tickets are requested to do
Athletic Office in the Gyn
Crashes Through/
CO-CAPTAIN DU.. w..w. 1
Terebus 2wr holding the oval for 
the kick on the 24. Mihm stepped 
1 ic easily, swung his foot, and 
the pigskin sailed over the up
rights wiih twenty feet to 6pare. It 
the firsl time that Joe had 
attempted a field goal in a gan 
Whole Team Plays 'Well 
In stopping the great DuqueBne 
ttack, which has made the Hilltopiers the highest scoring team lu 
he country, tne Tartans used only 
five substitutes. The line from tackle to tackle played the entiro 1 and Joe Mihm and Bill Carl vere tho iren men of the back- field. In the line Henrlon played a hung up defensive game, tackling and driving bard to cauBe the Duke backs a great deal of grief. Dolo- ay played his best game of the enr at tackle. Croft was ven brilliant in smashing Duquesn plays and rushing kicks, and he is
played Inspired football : ad was in on every play, working ke a demon all afternooi tho other end showed improvement.
Trbovich acquitted himself as usual, playing as hard as ho
and smeared, running plays be- liind the line of scrimmage on sev- al occasions. Joe Mihm played
he really did get the Dukes out of ie way. At fullback, Freddy Leh- an showed great potentialities, ncKing the line on several occa- ons for much needed gains. His defensivo work was  fispeclftll:- good. Bill Spisak and Srutale Ter- bus at the running half positions need little comment Their ball tot- was one 04 the keystones of the Plaid attack arid they shono liroughout the game in this
Harriers Defeat 
Panther Runners
Giolma Again Places First; 
Plebes Downed hy Cubs
By Johnny Weinberg 
A 23-32 victory over part of Pitts varsity team brought the season to close in a blaze of glory for Coach Halferty's cross-country team. Only three of Pitts varsity competed In the run, the rest of :eam meanwhile were resting for the meet with Navy which was last Saturday. Nevertheless Plaid harriera were very rful in their victory and would have made things hum for the Panthers if they had competed in the rgulai- lineup.
Frank Glolma again was the win- !r and has made for himself the reputation of being one of the best runners in tho section. The remainder of the Tartan squad was well scattered  throughout tho Toup," Eoch,- B&liis-, McMahon., .acd Beal finishing well, up In the pack.
Meanwhile Carnegies plebe team were being beaten by the.Pitt yeavinga to the tui"o 19-S3T" Boh Pinkerton, the tall plebe from- upstate New York finished In second place for tl\e Tartans ard gave an excellent account of himself.
Honor 5Andy Carnegie 
I At Music Hall Nov. 27 I
James R. Glenn and Penrose S. Melllnger, cadet majors; and Raymond P. Hanna, James B. Kelly, Jr., William G. Kulesz, Raymond C. V. Reed, William H. Sharp, -James K. Walker, and Oscar H. Kraft, cadet captains.Tbe student marshals will be Martha I. Demme, Rosemarie Grentzer, William S. Carlson, and Donald L. Ashbaugh.
- SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
>eu Fonsea 27G-7
Cathedral
Mansions
DINING ROOM 
/or SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, $ *i . 
served well, in a I 
' pleasant place |
BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND 
DINNER EVERY DAY
...---------------------------------/fer Ptfwu A,?
Call MISS DRISCOLL
ForResenruioasMAyflowcr 8100 
EUnronh Avenue Clyde Street
Plaid Cagers 
Start Practice
Fifteen Varsity, Thirty 
Plebes Work Out
TEAM IS HEAVY
Will V Have Advantage for 
Getting, Holding Uall
The Carnegie varsity ad freshfin basketball tenuis hove been 
practicing for the past two weeks, 
)th about 15 varsity and 30 plebes reporting. More are expected to for the former afcer the close of football season. The size -osh squad is somewhat of ' will be cut to of this week. Although no' regular freshman :oach has been assigned yet, Jerry O'Toole is expectcd to lake over the duties soon.
sity candidates are Cap
tain Ted Riggs, Johnny Ewalt, Joe 
Macalka, Paul Gibson, SI Falser, 
Charlie Fitzwilson, Bob Fltzwllson, Leg rdtbbCtk George Lenz, Cyril Daugherty, Bill Swinney, Jake Cox,
Andy Kdtscher, and Frnuk San- expected to report, nnd possibly Chnrlle Spisak, who made his letter in basketball Inst year. .
;Krltscher, who turned in a groat scoring record for the plebes last year, is bothered with a bad knee, and It is doubtful whether he can be counted oif until afler the season has started. High hopes has been held for Krltscher, for he has plenty of prep school experience and is ono of Lhe host shots on tlie squad.
, No regular varsity first team lin6 been picked ywt, although FitztviJtlon favored to date. Gibson and reiser are at fmwards. Fitzwilson s at center, and Iliggs and Ewalt it guards. Shomo alternates with Gibson and Fitzwilson, and Macal- ka- for either guard. During the first week' of practice Macalka received a broken nose, and consequently has not seen much action.
fThis years squad seems to supply much of what was missing last year. There is weight and plenty of height, and although there
tlces show that the team Is working together smoothly. Bccauye . of the boys are larger and heavier, they should
Rifle Notes
ere as fellows: Melllnger, 280; Broadhead, 278; Dervaes, 275; Singel, 267; Abrlno, 263.
Cali For Boxing
candidates for this sport Boxing1 candidates will be divided into three groups those reporting for the var- (ii, the freshman i
tlon along intra-mural lines.Mr. Scsto wants all those, interested in boxing to meet with hir-i this afternoon In the gymnasium,
lege: In case of fire Lake yourlime. Green things dQ hot burn easily.
National Honors?
CO-CAPTAIN LIB LEWIS
Libbus Lewis 
Makes Niche
Receives Recognition by 
National Figures
One of the most conais^outly- briillant grid stars Cunieglo lias Co-Captain vLlb"
the game.
Lewis hails from the nenrby town of Washington, Pa. While he was In high school In bis home town, ho mude u uamo for himself in scholastic football circles, nnd
sophomore year. That was the fall of 1931, and during the game with Notre Dame, he had his leg broken.The result was almost a whole year la the hospital, aud Ms ab- from tho gridiron until the *  * the opening
onco more in great sliajio by sung- glog two passes, which meant scores for the Tartans. Then, in the game with his old friends, the Irish, Ue plucked the ball out of theair und trotted < the old goalth& ouly end winning touchdown. These incldencos were hlB outstanding feats, but Lib was always plenty good.
This year Lowls has received the praises of football moguls nil over the country. Tbe conches.of Michigan State, Notre Dume nod Purdue all have given Lib unofficial  All American, recognition. If backed by  winning team nnd unhampered
by lils jinx leg, Co-Captain Lewis ; would be assured national honors,. The. weakened limb Is Lib's only handicapIn his performance as one of the toughest, hardest-lighting pluyers, his famous member Inevlt* ably lakes It on the chin" so to .
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor Street
HAIRCUTS, 36cC. CICERO
Barber Shop 
3709 Forbes Street
On Thanksgiving Night
and every Saturday Night thereafter
Forma! GENmy 
Hotel rmtyNyK
One dollar per person 
including breakfast at midnight
Wednesday and Friday liiglits informal as at 
present. Special arrangements foi- parties of 
thirty or more. For information . , .. Phono 
MAyfiower 6400.
<=d-t ^b.aUncnlL
M
HE ATTENTION GIVEN AT DARTI MOUTH TO THE DEVELOPMENT 
loF FINE CHARACTER IS REFLECT
ED IN AN INFORMED DEMAND FOR 
WHAT IS FINE IN CLOTHES.
Dartmouth men, instinctively conservative, are 
nevertheless responsive to all improvements in at
tire which are sanctioned by good taste.
It is natural that at Dartmouth the Kover-Zip 
closure is. preferred by well-dressed college men 
and by the leading tailors.
.afamous outfitter to Dartmouth 
men, comments We are 
pleased to endorse Kover-Zip for use in our custom work. 
It shows a marked improvement over the exposed metal zip
per, and we ... use it whenever making trousers where a 
zipper is required.
OulitiUiAuL^ college (allots, atlitcts tyle, 
ttiAote Covet tis tlte only tide ^(utenet
^it ^ine ciulcHt cletles
COVERED ZIPPER NOW 
FIRST CHOICE FOR 
COLLEGE CLOTHES
old-fashioned fly. Though they profor the : slide-fastened fly, they aro biso
motal. Kovor-Zlp. the
Bolocted as bcst-droaacd:
JoMDb A. Low Californio, 1604 
"The fellow who Invented the eovnred zlp- ilnly knocked
ANCIENT HISTORY
MODERN HISTORY
I PRINCE ALBERT TOOK THE 
foKBITE" OUT OF PIPE SMOKING 
'Vi AND BECAME "THE , 
r\ V.NATIONAL JOV SMOKE1
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
TRY a pipeful of mild, mellow, compdfifonabUPriace Albert. 
You will enjoy this choice mixture of top-quality tobaccosA secret blend treated by a Special process which eliminates 
eveiy hint of Vbite." You will soon see. why smokers everywhere call this fine tobacco "The National Joy Smoke.
123Fun
^ / THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKBJ

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1934
3Tl\c (Tatrtieijie 3Tartau
 PHONE MATFLOWEH :
rontns Editor___________
tcrod I
__________JULIAN F. MUNSTEKi______________HOT H1NET____________HAROLD J. BAER Sporlv Editor______________JEBOME HANSONWomens EdiU>r__________MAKGARET GBIFFINAnelKiunnt Editor______HERBEBT F. SCUWASZHCEA Editor_________DUDLEY D. PENDLETONFEATURE EDITORS: Livl&setori.COPY EDITOR:
SPORTS STAFF:
' Layton, Keith UcCulchcoi
CIRCULATION STAFF: Alb
Leven* G. Ml Uhell, A. Wegtcmmn.TYPISTS: Catherine Conll,  Lowry. Helen Slckenber Virginia Wliotey.STAFF ARTISTS: 0. Sw
s Anns Ladd, J
rvaes
Deserving Tribute
C
ARNEGIE'S football victory over Duquesne 
last Saturday was nothing short of gloRated as underdogs at the start, it became 
 cbvIouB before Lbe fcali was over that this Tar-' 
tan team was not to he defeated. Try to. put 
your finger os any one player and Bay "He i 
responsible for the victory. Mthm? Terebus 
Lewis? Henrlon? . . . you cant do it. It wa: 
no one player. It was the entire team down 
to Ihe last substitute who played'Working 
like a co-ordinated machine, propelled by ai 
invincible spirit.
Much has been said about overestimate 
the Importance of football victoriesand It 
Usually 7A justified. But when a team shows 
auch fighting spirit In a battle against a heav
ier, supposedly more powerful team, 1t ii 
son enough for a school to accord its athletes 
tribute.
That they were skillful and heady ar 
the sports pages to write about. That they 
were courageous and determined are out
To the s 
the game. 
.Here we
last session It was only 196. For the first time 
hr, fifty years a President jylll have a larger 
majority in the mid-tterm House, than he had in 
the session when he assumed office. In other 
words for.the first time In. fifty years the 
American people have more confidence In their 
President at midterm than they had wben they 
elected him. '
The people of America have given Franklin 
Roosevelt an overwhelming vote of confidence. 
They have told bini In effect that they, want 
him to run the country- during the next two 
years along the general lines he has laid out 
In the past two years. They have given him 
more power than any human being has had tor 
fifty years Id the belief that he can best lead 
tbe country. It is up to the President to pro
duce results as a leader.
i pages we leave the details of 
W proud of tbe team.
The Restricted Period Goes 
On TrialW
ITH the advent of rusbing season n< 
week, a new element in rushing, the : 
sticted period, goes into effect. This, period 
U an outgrowLh of the contracting period 
which was Introduced two years ago and is 
further attempt on the part of tbe fraterni ties to make rushing season easier to conduct 
and less bewildering to the freshmen.
It became increasingly obvious during tbe 
past few years that when you have 19 < 
fraternities rushing approximately 400 
within a week, some plan must be introduced^ 
to prevent tbe disorganized jumble that must 
result and did result previous to the inaugura- Uon of these now periods.
This restricted period, then, in conjunction 
with the contracting period following it, is 
other link in the "weedlng-out process that 
fraternities use in choosing their pledges and 
that rusbees use in choosing a fraternity.
Its purpose is merely this: It gives the
fraternities an opportunity to meet the fresh
men and decide which of them they are par
ticularly Interested in having in tbelr organiza
tion. They can then make dates with those 
duribg contracting period for. ,oj>en rush
ing and so devote all their efforts to a group 
-that has been narrowed down to 40 o
The restricted period affoTds the freshmen
- this advantage. He lias, the opportunity to 
look over tbe fraternities and narrow down his
Choice.to three or four houses. He can then 
. spend the entire week of open rushing at just 
 those three or four instead of the 12 or 13 
a freshman would formerly have to visit and
- so find it easier to make a decision when the 
..time comes for pledging.
This new period in rushing obviously has 
- many benefits but its success depends upon 
: whether tbe fraternities "play square with it 
and do not use this period for making dates. 
There is a special contacting period for tftatFreshmen should be aware of the fact that 
. they are not permitted to' be dated during the 
'-restricted period.and should make It a point 
not to accept dates then.
New Deal for New Deal
cver^hclaiiae- -rioter7of. New_ ..Deal. 
.=;1 supporters in the recent election sbould. 
prove wlthout a doubt that the nation is solldly.behind President Roosevelt and bis policies.
.The total vote, of 30 million throughout the 
.-nation was divided approximately four to three 
in favor of tbe Democratic party. Out of 91 
 Senate eeats which werp filled. Democrats cap
tured 24 a net gain of nine over the last ses
sion./-.Congress. In the 33 states voting, for 
-.Goverpor the Democratic partv wop: 24-con.i.testeVfor-a gain of five. - 
In Addition to the'above victories four New^DttlerSv/who ran on - parties other  than. the 
- ^Democratic were elected to the Senate, naraejsjy;  I^aFolle tte1 of .-Wisconsin. Johnson of Cali*fornl|CuttIng of New- MextcoT and - Shipstead 
^o^^lnnesota. .-- In fact there were few oppo^riwit\to,: the New < Deal elected, those Repub* 
v?Jleaa.vtbat .were;, elected being: almost all men 
wjfbo<boft*pedaled their opposition to Roosevelt.
moatyslgDJftcimt. and surprising.- re* 
*be;qieetlon is the fact that the Demo** ^^miioHtyinthenextHouae- r:2U; whlliB/1
By WAYNE PARRISH
There is more than one person to believe 
that tbe dally newspaper Is slipping as a pow
erful instrument Tor forming public opinion. 
In wide and Important areas it has lost re
spect and prestige among tbe reading public. 
No longeT is It tbe' primary source o second 
znalion.
Only a few years ago tbe press pompously 
held fast to a virtual monopoly in the field of 
dissemination' of news and information. The 
editorial pages were battle-grounds of opinion 
Today, more often tban 1 would like to admit, 
the most vital ne%vs stories o the times 
to be found la monthly magazines. Editorial 
pages, for the most part, slumber innocuously 
in lbe atmosphere ot yesterdays glory, 
chanically. the daily newspaper is better 
equipped than eyer before. In coverage facili
ties it excells. But its editorial page has be
come excess baggage.
I found more tban mere circumstantial evi
dence to support this view during a recent 5,- 
000-mile tour through nine southern states. 
Traveling through two hot spots" in the 
souththe textile strike zone and Huey Longs 
private game preserve of LouisianaI was im
pressed by the disrepute of the newspapers in 
the minds of the reading public, a situation 
that was aggravated by the great Inroads the 
radio as made In bringing a national con
sciousness to the provinces.
In the textile strike zone, as might be ex
pected, the grat majority of newspapers were 
editorially opposed to the strike and were fa
vorably to th mill owners. That Is their edi
torial, right, and the effectiveness of the press 
has nothing to d with the aide the news
paper takes, no more tban the editorial effec
tiveness of the newspaper can be judged on 
circulation figures, business office profits or advertising lineage. Tbe question binges on the reliability, the accuracy and the fairness, presentation and interpretation of news.On what did the textile strikers, for example, rely for tbelr Information? Where did they get their opinions? I wish I could say tbe press, but the truth is that the southern, workers has gained in the course of the past five years an extraordinary national consciousness from lue rao, ut from the press.industrial development of the: south is comparatively recent, -within the last two decades. - Tbe textile workers came from small tenant, farms and the mountain fastnesses, 200,000 of them.'. They Jumped from a Hfe of 1815 into an industrial world of thel920's, and the social Impact of this change cannot be
speech that originates in WashingtonPresident Roosevelt, Secretary Perkins and the rest. Not only that, but th$y remember phrases and sentences from those speeches No longer is Washington a distant vagueness The capital has been brought' into thlr'imme- dlate presence in those mill towns. The radio replaced the press as their connection
different story, hut
with the nation.Louisiana presents _______ __
there too, the radio playa the same vitalrole Every dally newspaper and eighty per cent of the weeklies are opposed to Huey Long. This is not surprising, and probably is for the best interests of the public. But are the newspapers fighting Huey for vote-power with the same effectiveness that Huey. is holding the voters? Today; HueyUbesnl heed the papers. He can reach them'by radio. And the Louisianians dp listen to those radio talks Huey. Jias out-smarted- the newspapers. The press wooed the public and lost; Huey wooed and won. The voters think the newspapers inaccurate. They insist the papers color news reports. They believe the newspapers are fighting for their own selfish interests anil not for the publics.
brief discussion of . this sort. It la not easy to present all sides of the question. But essentially the daily newspaper is up against two problems: One Is to regain its editorial prestige and the other Is to revise its standards of news . treatment The radio has stepped into the' field of spot news. The movie news-reels have captured the dramatic pictorial, interest. There remains a legitimate field for tbe pressbut they have yet to discover It.The power of the written word is still potentially greater than that of the spoken idea for the. very practical reason that a nrnn can read a word twice, ten times, until he understands The spoken word Is gone In a flash. Already faced with stiff competition and with monthly magazines running years ahead on the significant news stories of the times, the dally press will have to resume its time-honored taek of molding public oplniou. It will have to relinquish its exclusive role as reporter and r^Vy become- an intwpi'btcr^iTi iTiteTpreter that-will maintain respect no matter what the
i play, the role of
transformation in news dissemination within the past five years, Is.,still trying to compete with radio on , the old horsehair-trigger unintelligible; last-minute editions. The radio 
indulgent, convincing^
largement of interests to the average reader. Concrete highways, the-movies and the radio have done that. The New Deal on the Air," starrim? Roosevelt and brilliant supporting 
cast.lias accentuated'Oils natlonaV consciousness to a startling degree. There is more need than ever for editorial.Interpretation of .bewildering issues, for'complete and intelligent coverage of the shuttling speed of news. Tbe. dally press is fighting vainly against >a competitor wben a whole field long.overlooked and:all the.more fertile.for having lain fallow long. Is awaiting. They have been fighting  freedom of th press without  taking full 
what/freedom Ihejshare. - . -
IN CONTEMPLATION
The time has come to think of many 
things; (o gain perspective; to acquire, or 
at least to scrutinize, tbe abstract outlook 
on- Hfe. We havfe been too long the will
ing and -passive serrs of self-conceitfor 
"tiie two great bains of humanity are selfconceit and the laziness coming from selfconceit." Too long have we permitted 
ourselves a comfortable, though distorted, 
conception of our existence. We. have 
built up a great mud barrier of habit, 
convention. Indifference, ignorance, ; and 
false ideals; we bave plastered tbat'mud 
barrier with the fungi of a thousand gods 
and tbe platitudes of a thousand morali
ties, thinking to strengthen itthough its 
strength must necessarily mean our weak
ness, and its growth, our fall. To keep nn 
unreasoning faith, we have drenched that 
mud with the blood of our brotherswe, 
the apostates! Plied high with the flltbM all humanity since the beginning of time, is that barrier; such ii the architecture of the bands of man. Small wonder that 
n which he
On Second 
Thought
Dudley O. Pendleton, Jr.
should rebuild that fr<has arisen.
Consider cosmic space; whirling spheres of dust,and fire caught [or eternity In a mad,'remorseless dance; even as swirling motes, visible for a moment in a sunbeam. Suns and worlds and stars  blazing, anven like the sun, the All this agglomeration of systems and remnants of systems eventually pass through the same stages of cosmic lawbeat, rot, and cold; and in the last, corniscant desolation, until some wandering, flaming star sets tbe whole mass alight again; and so the process goes on, ad infinitum.
It is In the second stage, however, that of rot, after the purification by flre, tbat the most interesting reactions and developments occur. Let us regard a cosmic unit, such as the earth; it is composed of matter, i. e., that which occupies apace. Matter Is in no wise completely comprehensible to man, but he does understand that It is composed of atoms, electrons, and protons, and that these, under certain conditions of putrefaction evolve life. Not life as we wish to know or conceive it, but life Lhnt spreads and grows and foeds upon itself like a malignant disease; swelling, expanding, and fermentingmaking the -whole a vermlpa- rouB, writhing mass. Meanwhile, the earth ever and always swings on through its predestined course, cooling and warming itself at the fire of its Irresistible sun. At length, these microorganisms, devouring
) another, cohering and di:and creating__________, U1.
viding themselves into countless combinations, evolve more familiar, though not less revolting, forms of life: the animal and the vegetable. The latter, though non- motile, and in many ways a mystery to Tetalns characteristics common to 
slime mold,
to the botanists as myxomycetes, Fs doubtedly the origin of both animal and vegetable life. But, interrelated as they are, the. former, be it ape, beetle, whale, or rnacow, is endowed with a brain, limited, to be sure, to the specific requirempanled by equally varying degrees  of reason, the highest stage of which '"is found in man. Man, then, is a superior organism, Impelled in his various actions and reactions by the brain, especially that quality of tbe brain known as Reason.
Reason, mans greatest stepping-stone to civilization, begets science and moral philosophy; religion, the offspring of the latter, is but a stepchild to the former, and- never do the two work in accord. Reason, technically, is mans ability to deduce inferences from factshence his vast scientific, medical, and mechanical achleve- It has ever been a fortunate into collect, classify, and pre-stinct in : . .................
serve the conclusions which he has reached and ascertained by experiment. On this, accumulation of knowledge lias rested the growth of bis intelligence.Reason is-also mans foundation and basis of morality. Through it he establishes a standard of conduct applicable to his environment, customs, and mode of Uvlng. In consequence, a man's moral phnosophy is good only within the bounds of his own country; in another climate he finds his moral ideals shattered. Morality, ethics, virtue, then, is merely a question of Ume and the place; what does the average know or care of the moral attitudes 
 nothing, exThis Man Long
Once more Huey Long, Louisi anas well publicized senator, makes the headlinesthis tim. cause, in a special session, bis -well trained legislators passed 44 bills in the record time of 84 hours
O. K.d by  Long controlled Gov ernor O- K. Alien will become laws vitbin 20^ days, putting tbe Kiug-  in control of the poabllc i tbe ment.Tbe. surprising thing abouuHuey in not that be gets things done with bis machin as it is but that be was able to build powerful and that he continues to keep control of it.
The Share the Wealth Plan
Perhaps the biggest siDgle thing back- of his rise to power "Share the Wealth plan
Share the Wealth clubs have been formed, of these in bis own slate, and it ill probably be on tbe populority of this plan that he will consider inning for the presidency In 1936. 
Frank R. Kent writing in the Atlantic Monthly explains Long* by quoting from William Allen White. " In every civilization there s a moronic onderwocid which annot be civilized. It can ' - taught to read and write, but think, and lives upon the level of
other explanation.
A Champion of the Poor 
Long has gained popularity as a champion of the poor with his "sock the rich, especially the big corporations, and give the little man a chuuce' and will continue to favor, them as long as it is politically profitable. One of bis most recent bills calls for a tivo-year, moratorium on all private debts I above eight dollars. (Long lent] numerous students seven dollars! apiece for their transportation to | one of the University's football games.)
Long Thrives on Publicity 
Part of Hueys continued popularity is due to his keen the value of publicity. Never has a senator so cleverly kept himself before the public  thing la that such m political denunciation, ridicule and scorn. Coming to Washington eputation of being a crude poli"unsavory record igue, he has and has liveddisappointed up to his reputation.
Says Mr. Kent of such men as Huey, "There is no way of stopping them. They stop themselves. They becomeobsessed with their drivel and grow dull and tire- . Popular interest subsides the show flops and they are through." (
'Has Capacity for Hard Work 
All that  is said of Huey, howgood qualities by saying that he has a prodigious capacity for hard work having taken, as a student  t Tulane, nine months to complete three-year course and pass his bar examinations. He is author of only constitutional history of
Kappa Sid Hays attended the game Saturday fit-to-klll in 
slacks, sport jacket, and imagine, a cans. An how 
only he .can In hie silent way. Immediately following the an
nouncement that Yale beat Princeton, a ravishing blond sitting in 
front of him, who had been annoyed by his cheering, turned 
around and gushed: I'll bet your a Yell man . . . Get it?
BANG-BArfG . . . We have it straight from the farmers of the 
Sandy Lake district that Raiph Anderson is a hunter of some 
repute. In fact they think so much of his ability that they :ire 
taking steps to send him lo Miami Beach Tor the Thanksgiving 
holidays. When he went hunting last, he managed to bag uix 
chickens, [our pigs, three cows, and Farmer Jones wife . . . 
Better luck the ne*t lime.
ANYHOW, THEY SHOULD GET PLEOGES
Only the other night Flash Gilmore of the Delts was being 
shown through one of the city's new churches. Said his guide, 
We have a gymnasium, in case anyone wants to play basket
ball; we have bowling alleys, in case anyone wants to bowl; *we 
have a library, Jn case anyone cares to read, etc. Replies Mr, 
Gilmore, And, I suppose, a chapel room, in case anyone wants to 
go to church. Very witty, what say? 
Were hopin that . . . Tommy Seaver gets his tux shirt 
cleaned for the next formal . . . Joan Kuhn gets to school early 
enough so slie can park her car inf a respectable place .'. . 
Whlmpy Gibson gets enough to eat, poor Whimps and Mary . . . 
Willy Reed, the Connecticut Flash, gets a hat before winter sets 
In . . . maybe Eleanor Sherman could lend him one . . . P. K. 
As dont leave school cause we want a good basketball team this 
year ... Ad Gimore gets to class on time (bet he's late for his 
wedding) . . Chuck Pope stays out of places where he might
meet sw.ch guys as Schneider . . . Playboy Jim Kelly gets his 
balr bobbed . . . D. U. Richmond keeps his'eyes open concerning 
pre-rushlng . . . "Sure shot Mary Wettaeft fails to hit the cupld 
. . . Shuffle' Burke stays away from teas . . . Sissy VJIsack 
keeps strangers off her phone . . . Peggy Shultz makes up her 
mind . . . Ken Knapp gets a hinge on his cast . . . Ronny Kloos 
would quil writing her diary in library books . . . m&rjorle Green
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology Jn Boston J3 the 
expensive inons ' college . la 
United Slatesthe minimum 
for freshmen.-ie $1080 per 
In contrast the cheapest is fiVra 
College, KentuckyIhe mloluui >r-xx- -
Only 13 per cent of. the coiled
U*Sw iU? f -UQi^ s
The federal government js sood Ing approximately. 70,000 student through colleges a^d univetsiu* throughout tlie United States t year at-a cost of more than 1 000,000. "
a University may rlgW1 
d the mother ot colleit presidents for G2 of her gradual have become president -- tional institutions.
doesn't let that Lincoln get 1
Louisiana.for he . ___mattfer how many enemies lie saying so, and laughs off
he -thinks,
standards, and his egotismMs 0
ot India, an China? Little-----V prhas' io compare-tfifetn to his
> make Morality,
nd civilization.
Religion itself is at best but a guess and a hope. Viewed down through the ages, Us path is marked with blood and ignore -ante. And yet man baa clung to it, has fought for it and lived it; and if his fellow- ma.Q, Ms brother tu- flesh- and mind, dar<ad: to stand in Its path, he flung him aside and ground him in the dust that the altar, the shrine, the temple, tbe church, might rise in power and glory to himself and his god.- . As yet there has never been a people with- . "out a religion, a people without gods; ever, has man abased UlmaeU in tlve dust, and. ever has he groveled before the power created by the falterings of his own mind. Man Is. weak, finds it easy to err, and so! strives to placate the better dictates of his . Conscience with the worship of dieiies In whom he finds the consummate virtue.^. Much of liis belief and credence rests on'1 his ignoran'ce and superstition. But as man adds to his- knowledge, as bis Intelll- - gence grasps more powerfully- the truth of the physical world in which .he lives, so does he leave behind him th legend and. the_fantasy that was once his religion: for . he must buy science, at ihe cost t his oui.. As man-follows, step by step, In.the die-  Jates of science, he is gradually made to' realize the futility and impossibility of rising above the flesh. : Man, science- teaches, must ever be subordinate to the physical restrictions of matter; religion, fostered in the heart of man, has ever combated this deduction with the promise of the soul, and of a future life.
And herein lies the problem which very man. should face and .solve, for. hlmselfr he can Bolve it only by a just consideration .of himself, his capacities, and limitations. He must plan, a philosophy of life applicable to his needs alone; he must his observations, experiences,
. be tolerant of_r --------, a seek to learnfrom their opinions and dogmas: greatness' of-mind can come only to-the open-minded. The man who can do this will have lived  deeply and. with n purpose: his life will have been, an achievement instead-of a burden.   v    > 
ELEANOR ZYQLER, 
n, 1
makescriticism, returaing to confound his critics when a more opportune mo- ent arrives.
Mntelllgfcnt but Unscrupulous" 
There are many writers who be- that the Long dictatorship Is
poor and lives lavishly.
 It-is- hard, wSea vre ka<iw ihst Long himself is worth more than a million, to feel but that this last is true and that the existence of such 'political monstrosUies-is a decided blight upon any government.
M. C. E. -A.
BEWARE . . . After checking up on the library pass-out checka, 
we find that a great kidnapping plot has been planned . . . The 
cards tell us that the Delts are planning to hijack seven freshmen 
this Saturday night. The Sigma Nus hope to smuggle three, and 
the Betas get anything that they can lay'their hands on . . .- 
Play safe, freshman, stay In doors ... It was through the effi
cient work of our.great detective Thather Hemingweight, that we 
are able to publish such slai-tllng news.
The purp she I 
And every day at ten-fifteen 
She walked him ... as a rule.
But here of late our Mary found 
She had to stay in class.
With mid-semesters now in sight,
She thought she might not pass.
The little pooch was too confined.
He was an awful sight . .
To sit all day and not get out 
Was what we'd call a plight.
And now the watchman, we are told.
Will never walk at night'
 In those long halls or small class rooms 
Unless he has a light
ADVERTISEMENT . . , AU dorm men and the fraternity men__
in fact any menare cordially invited to attend the Forbea Hall 
tea dance coming off this Thursday afternoon. ' There will be 
dancing galore and making merry . .. . From four till five-thirty 
... It will be one of those briog-your-own-beer-and-pretzels afhave become presidents of edura Honal institutions.
Directors of Oxford University ice voted not to install baihshi, iuse tbe students who occun the dormitories attended colli only eight months a year.
At the University of Mlnnesolj a fine of ten dollars or a jail l,M of six days is the sentence imp ed on a co-ed if caught weailne 1 frat pin.
And then there was the fresh man girl who took Aathropolcn because it was the study of loan- Boston University News.
Just a definition of collcgei place where one learns to make t living by not earning one dime io four years.Brown and White.
The largest attendance at a single football game was that at ihi Sf-uthern . Callfornle-Notre Dam; contest at Soldiers Field, Chicago, in 1929 when 122,912 personn elweek previous to iheColgate-Ohi _ _________
lng, sports announcer, in his radioState game, T(?nouncer, in hi____talk picked Ohio State lo wla An
fairs. Come and get acquainted.
IN CLOSING '. . . And now tbat v 
neH take the Puppet's Ccntel ad c 
Old Gold.
My Dear Ted Husing: it r Choosing tha't Colgate will be Losing We: Have One Hundred Dollars We are Not Using, and II Surmise Your Prediction li Wise. Fork Up Your Hundred and Well Take Youse Gugs (Signed) The Beta House, Colgate IJnlverThat the Betas
Their Status as Prognosticate Please Let Me Know, And I wiD Forward the. Dough. (Signed) Ted
gate. Husing,. wiring tue luoiw, advised:
I Tell you This -to Bring Yon Pain, The Betas Bet will ba Huslnss Gain. Tm sorry My Pod- ball Erudition Will Cost You Moit of Next Terras Tuition..- 
The game was played; Colgate
aity of Wisconsin chemistry instructor, makes German sausage as a hobby and has a special smokehouse to cure it lo tbe basement of his home. 
Colgate has introduced' brilliantstudent's mind off of the impend- '-g terror.
After studying the situation at Ifi colleges-Tor 35 years, a prominent Insurance company has discovered
chance to mix politicsS-l^eUUosing a <>..aver. -30,000.withUnder -the open In
ROTC RETREATS
partisan (four-fifths of the Arrangements Committee are either Socialists or Communiste), the HulUtiu said editorially.
It was maintained by the Bulletin that no matter what a delegate convention pledged itself to, it......IJ-- ftn(j COyJd n()t gpg^
behalf of the entire student body
University of :convention plan, students convention would speak for them-1 hangings,* only 70 selves and for themselves alone. *' *
At a meeeting last week, the Arrangements Committee voted to accede to Professor Dwyer's demand for an open convention, although it "went on record disagreeing with the administration. The commit- ;fH^a*raoLei lze. prof6asr Dwybrs flagrant represTlages r
This is the. inscription on a bulletin board outside a church on Uw Northwestern university -cenipus: 
"Do you know what heli Is? Underneath was printed in small1
of the ROTC has been forced malte a hasty retreat- from the University Oval where it has been holding its drills. The regimentthe athletic field for its parades, and the beauty of the lawns-will be'preserved.
porting. back n
. ANTI-WAR CONGRESS
. New York University iMCEA)_.Plans for New York Universitys second annual anti-war convention I received a slight setback last week when Professor Charles A. Dwyer,' speaking for the administration, de-| roanded .that __the convention be planned bn an'open basis. Hitherto, each club, each organization and each class  ...a delegate Xthis iteiegi&te _o
hie class the following week.
Claiming that the delegate sys- tm of conference was unfair and undemocratic. Professor  Dwyer told the Arrangements Committee ihat he would refuse the conveut.on-the- -^t----Any  uuivBi-att,-rooms for facilities unless the con- - ention were 'openthat is, open 0 any n y. U. student who wants 0 come in.
Professor Dwyer was backed up by most of the student body and by the w. S. C. Bulletin. Ainder- grariuste publication ... .;We believe thecommittee oh* 
ject.ed .to. Profeasor Dwyers author

---------------------------------------------------

u
Jfcn CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, NOVMBEft* 20. 1Q34
Kansans Proud of Alma Mater
Jlany Traditions and Gay 
Social Life Keep 
Students Busy
Why do people think. Kansans should gallop, across the prairies ttf-arine broad brimmed cowboy hats or hide behind trees and ffw av passlo*. Indians? KantijC are aroused ot the very suggestion. for .they are proud, and insist on being recognized as an r4d coming.. State. We are troud of our state, and we are es- ieciully proud of that part of
Ossip Gabrilowitch, Famed 
Conductor, Is Gracious Host
He Has the Unassuming Simplicity and Charming 
Naturalness of True Greatness; His Artistic 
Temperament is Reserved for His Music
OUll Of i
Elate the "University located-a tl'iwreiice. we are unusually fortunate in having one. of the most beautiful campuses in the country. K located on top of a high hill  id aiTords abeautiful view of the K-n- Valley on the North and the i\Yakarusha Valley on-, the South, frnc town is small and uulte.old, I il very collegiate minded in ull livitlcs and interests.Kansans Hold Freshman Week Tlie freshmen are introduced
ifter Iheir
traditionsimmediately The period of before enrollment is s Freshman Week. These devoted to aiding new stu- problems of registration, 
Inrolment and gnral orientation a,n H'C campus. At the various ifcieeiings they ar Introduced to Chancellor, part of the faculty, &nd to their student leaders. Then h-ltli the beginning of classes the Concentrated activity begins. Here g might mention the custom of fresliman baaing. The boys ifeiill required to wear the blue liman caps and are paddled by "K men -when they neglect sin routine duties, tradition of severe hazing is 
Rapidly dying
 many days have passed week varsities get sponsored by the.Student
if a bit of social life, I dont want
Friday liversity
three-hour varsity. However, the ilcrnities and sororities have h>een limited to three parties > ing Hie school year.Friendly-Spirit on Campus There is a decided effort on th'. irt of. the student .body to have [iriilv democratic and friendly spirit the campus. To aid irt the owth of this spirit the W. S. sponsors . a'tea for all wor the campus each Wednesday Afternoon from 3 until 5. Bach week a different sorority i hostess to. the other women campus. Also the W. S. Q. A. and tlie Y. Yf, .C,.A...sponsor a.Gingham
ly, held, in the Union Building. Foi i>oth of these parties* a school shestra furnishes music 'for dancing and.ln thg.sprlng the girls have heir annual Puff-Pant ~ livhich half of the girls < bd as boys.f Another, project of the.W. S. G.
are contacts and more friends, i upperclassman Is at the head* of cli division and is responsible r their activity. They have their [regular meetings and hence have a ore active interest In. their cam- is, their self-government. and in eir college life in general. . Students Stage'Musical Comedy Each year, with the W. S..G. A. i sponsors, the students put
source of revenue [for the Women's _ Self-Governing 
saci&tioR. Additional moner for- iclcnt council activities . comes i the compulsory student activeshman K Book. The latter ion becomes the freshman bible for it tels them all-about the cam' traditions, organizations and
[dents solve questions in their parthc last few years, our annual celebrations of Mothers' Day and Dads' have been united iat-c-Parents', .. which is usually celebrated spring, it includes a football 'me and a large' banquet in*the ening, with special'honor being ven to the parents who have pome the farthest or who have the roost children in school.[Athletics Hold Prominent Position .-7 - - mention-- should be made of our athletics! Although traditional, on most tampuses ive football .as the major sport, pro at K. U., basketball and track plong with football have' an' important part in . student interest', years it has been a tradition Kansas to have -an excellent rack team, and the Kanse3 relays ra'e gained nation-wide recognl- Then at the Olvmplcs, we Mast having had four members of student body > as represents* s of the United States.- They Baush-, Clyde Coffman,
'"Sham,
. . By Mura KllachkoThe concert was over. 1 rushed through the stage ectrance-^-past the watchmanpast the No Admittance Except to Artists and Employees" signelbowed and wiggled my way through the backstage
looked around the dark empty concert hall. I visualized them a6 they bud been
before  alive and vibrant rich music, and I thought of
G abrllowltch.Ossip - with his halo of
Gabrilowitch silver hair wh had given thei e and' warmth with the fire of s genius.Then I hurried up the narrow, iron stairs that led to his dressing and on the first .landing, al-olllded with him; He. held both hands in welcome, and his face .glowed with that illuminating
need for pretty speeches ,
He has the unassuming simplicity and the charming naturalness ot
' ' nly where Jt beScheqley for a brief visit, and tired he was after, that strenuous con- t, he was a most solicitous and charming host. When the refreshH bS alR
LOOKING GLASS
Scoop one! Alligator Graiso Zipper Galoshes ia black or brown, specially ' priced for the Tech Ci Eds! - Scoop two!' Just for you. we' hunted' around until we found the only store iu town.that carries
about them. This winter, he-| sides , his' numerous appearances as a pianist aiid guest copductor .with various orchestras, he is going to present Wagners Opera Tristan id Isolde, in Detroit, with an outstanding  cookpany
ill also'play piano concerts for-sixteen performances with the National Orchestra In New .York an orchestra of young musicians nnder the direction of'Barzin. It unheard of achievement for -tlst to present such a variety
listened fascinated as he told his plans, bis ideas, and his experiences. He amused us with numer- anecdotes about famous musicians, which he recounted in flawless English, Russian, and French, ivith clever mimicry.
There wa*a knock at the door, and someone came to take brllowitch to tbe train. Then the spell was. broken, andI realized I had forgotten all about the Interview I was to get. It would have seemed crude, somehow, to hreak'In with any trite interrogations such as, What kind or music do yon refer" or "What do you think .of the N R- A.? and to ask "What do you think of Jazz? would  have asking Leonardo
not, this same store Is Soring you a genuine alligator oxford at exactly one-half .the original price.  Confidentially,. we think It to ouiselves to be the first in line for this exciting pus shoe.
Ossip Galrilowltch to knoT he loves all that is classical i tic, noble, and beautiful.
and then at the glass of milk and toast the. waiter was- setting before him, and with a defiant and scornful gesture nicked up half of my sandwich. Then I .became aware of- the countless little sacrifices he wn9 constantly maklne und of hiti astounding .vitality and
Welfare Drive Fund 
Roaches $3,958 Mark
a brilliant pianist, left Russia -thirty-five years- ag and gave concerts alt over Tffuroi and America; blit after his me riage to. th only daughter of Mai n, he made America liis hoi. He-has hadbrilliant ' career
them is have'cos cruel^u^-?-earner of the world. ' L '' There has been a noticeable increase In the last few years in en- thusiasin in intramural nthlellcsr. Each fraternity -has weM trained football, basketball, baseball, hand- 11, . track, tennis, horseshoe,' estling and swimming teams; and the. sororities have' basketball, hasebali, tennis, ping-pong.- horseshoe, volleyball, and ' swimming teams. The.competition' Is great and the Interest is mounting a" time.Parade by Lantern Light recently established traditic of the women on the campus Is th<
d to gather for'a buff Afterwards they form a Ion? line, ^each girl carrying a lighted Japanese lantern, and they sing and parade. In a winding, line across the campua to the hoi the Chancellor to renew again their, friendship . with the Chancellor and1 -his wife, and to slioxv  thei? appreciation- for the - tar ?West that they have in the activities of the women students.On our campus', as on all others, the interests, of ;th'e students are numerous and the activities are varied. Each member of the student body, is doing his part, and together we are working toward, democracy, loyalty, and goodfeUowshlp In an effort to fulfill the aims and ideals of our university.Sincerely,^ PEGGY SHERWOOD,
Critic Scores 
Letter Writer
Says Student-Faculty 
Relations Too Formal
you dont have metallic sorles. The metallic flowers ' tiny velvet leaves cant fnil to just the right touch 1
cuffs, or tiny chokers of silver i gold metallic will heighteu' tl chicness of your
boasts of a metal calendar which eHdes right in on top of the case. Very clever. Evening . bags! EVENING AGS! We AA2 such an array or orgeou6 vening bags that; we iply stunned! Enough tc
.mlnum frame-work surrounding the hole bag, and a tiny aluminum link chain. The flnal touch to uny formal 16 the white chiffon velvel 
C dash of color in the ruby
In a previous issue of the Tartan a-letter by a Mr. Ex-umbilicus was published. It Is quite apparent that the student who wrote the letter utterly missed the point of preceding ortlcle. erlaln" instru of calling his students by their first name was, I believe, only incidental -to the main point that more friendly student-faculty relations are an.urgent necessity, here at Carnegie.
Our_tough customer friend, Mr Ex-umbilicus, tells us that -Carnegie should not be a place .to at home but a placo to grow at. According to. last weigrow better mentally when we'are in an uncomfortable and' unfriendly environment. Apparently tbe worse our environ- t the belter our learning abil all of which is obviously ridic
ulous.
It 6ems to me that too many of lr instructors are merely cogs in machine grinding out so many graduates a year, rattier than hu- beings Interested in those
Ai. M, Soro niwf En d 
Silence Period Wed*
Sunday marked Uio end ot the first sonority nishing season In 
Margaret - Morrison Carnegie Col
lege. - Bids were Issued Monday 
morning by the three sororities. 
"Silence period began Sunday ildnight and will continue uutll morrow at 4:30, when th answers to all 'bids must be - in Dean Greens office. Any bid not answered by the rushee by 4:20 tomorrow will not be accepted until the end of the two month period.
During the.period of silence no sorority member may speak to or communicate with any of the girls wlio received bldB to join her sorority. During these three days the prospective pledges are Invited to consult with the faculty advisor of each sorority.
who are in a position occupied i time past by. themselves.
Some.of our jAoiessoi'a
late Pop Utecht as a good ex pie. Unfortunately they are - not plentiful enough.
Hoping that WUHant (Mr. lux- umbilicus) keeps growing aud tli.e faculty becomes less, inachlne-likc and .more congenial, I am.Yours vory truly,A STUDENT.
For The Thanksgiving
FORMAL
Clifton Boutelle. Jack McKee.Richard Hammond. Spencer Brittain, Robert Coblenta, Schleusener, Saul Farbman, Lester Van Valkenburgh, Richard Denni son. John Weinberg. Walter Berl, Joe-Prendes, Keith McCutcheon, William Work; James Matteson, George MoRoberts,. Howard Shapiro, James Pendleton, Joseph Schaeffer. Donald Zalenka, . and 
George Elliot.
In Margaret. Mprrlson they arc: ouise Pace, Sarah Hower, Jane iller, Betty 'Herold, Sylvia _avich, Jane Merrill, Eleanor Lov/rey, Adelaide Aschmann. Helen McCrea, Margaret '-Fitzgerald, Kathryn Bauer. Alpha Jane Black. 
Alberta McClure, Matthews Haw- orne, Virginia ' Matthews, Betty Mackey, Florence .McCullough;
Kusian, Helen Murray, Mary Loui
bag v asp.Dim lights and soft musicand his gorgeous gown! an infon cocktail dress or black cereal crepc fish-net sleeves and yoke. The collar and cuffs are of silver sequins, and a tiny bolero around the wal6t'add THE flnal touch;Vogue praises lounging pajamas' sky high! New and different is the two-pieco pajama with the coolie coat of corduroy, and plaid collar and cuffs. The wide ers are plaidand what more need- we say to a TECH co-ed!    |Extremely smart three-quarter length , tunic of c velvet. Two brown clips are on t sides of the circular neck, and brown belt relieves the solid ti 
dGel30H color of . the blouse and      Tor afternoon____ ___ piece dresstheblack crepe skirt is smartly pleated in. the front, and the satin blouse presents contrast. As you kno' white is favored this season, and a dress of this kind 1A indispensable in your wardrobe.
^CREPES
-VELVETS
TAFFETAS
HOSTESS 
 COCKTAIL 
FORMAL
No detective work is needed in locating tbe dealer 
who fella what you want. Just look in the "Where 
to Buy It section of your telephone book!
There, local dealers are listed beneath the trade 
marks of many advertised productseuch as Philco, 
Greyhound1 Lines, Willard Batteries, Buick and 
Goodyear. Besides helping you find the brand you 
want, this service helps manufacturers check sub
stitution, helps dealeis
rnell University sciem raised two sheep which 
: blade of grass.-
- fliohfoJWe're a bit' snooty about our draw-A mg irikschoice of theHI besi.draftsmen for ^IhegS&k last 54 years. Give 'emfmu ,.a tumble! ..
-fllglL: CHAS.M. HIGGINS CO.; Inc-S71 Hli)lh SL Brooklyn, N.y.
HIGGINS'
American
DRAWING INKS
439 WOOD STREET
The Only Laird Operated Store
cA SMART SHOE
For the Ultra Smart
SOEORITY$4.95
A patteiii just received 
that tiat.tfivs the foiit. A 
high riding loop-tie Oi-- 
toi-d in black suede with 
patent tip and trim. We 
also have this, same style 
in brown 'and crushed 
leather. 
Special 
Tech OnlyGOLOSHES ... *|.75
Slide Fasteners
LAIRD
439 WOOD STREET
' Just  step From Fifth ..

---------------------------------------------------

THE ABNF.C1E TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 20. 1934
THE 
C A R NE G IE 
PLAID
: $og editai k Nif Cameot? In iti tu (e
Council Dances
; The night school social oeasou Is uow well under way. The functions that hare already been presented have been quite succcssfu), and it . is hoped that the students will continue to support the efforts of the ictjyJUes workers to provide the
acquaintances, of the dances,their ' friends and The success ot  or other functions that . ......ed by the Night Student Council the respective colleges depends i tirely upon' student support. The entertainment offered cannot be . matched anywhere at the rldicul- .pusly low figure charged for tickets ...lor these affairs. If for no other reason than because you attend Scotch school, you should take ad* .vantage of the opportunity .to ipy 'yourself Inexpensively iha provided periodically by the activities wor
A Quotation
; Following 7A an excerpt from ^Scrapbook" of Elbert Hubbard \irus-written under the title of Mans Real Measure by.w. Brann. It is a particularly pointed article and Worthy of note.
The place to take the measure of a man is not in tho darkest place or in the amen cor nlleid, but by hii
hispreside. There he lays aside
hether he is an imp or an angel, cur or king; hero or humbug- cate'not what the world says him.*, whether it crowns him boss or pells him with bad egg6. I cc * no? d ropper what hiB reputation religion may be: if his babies dread ... his homecoming and his belter half ^swallows her heart eveiy time she has to ask him for a five dollar bill he Is a fraud of the first water, ' even though ho prays night and morning until he is black 1n the
/his children rush to the front door to meet him and love's sunshine illuminates the face of hi wife every time she hears hi's footfall, you can - take it for granted that he Is pui
great white throne of God - He l>e a rank atheist and a red-flag ' anarchist, a Mormon and a mugwump; he may buy votes in blocks
deck and drink beer until he cant '.tell a silver dollar from a circular 'eaw, and stlil.be an inflnitely,better manfthan the cowardly little humbug; who Is all sauvity in society but!.'who makes home a hell, 'who vents upon the helpless heads of his wife and children an 111 nature- he would Inflict on his fellow men ; but: dares not. I can forgive much . In that fellow mortal who would 'rather make men Bwear than women weep; who would rather have ' ,the^ hate of the whole world than the; contempt ot his wife; who .would rather call anger to the eyes of a king than fear to the face of a
behind the closed dooi
about it. the sooner we expect its erection. So "What?
M.I.T Engineers Invent 
Calculating Machine
Completion of an experimental 
 model, of what Is Relieved to be the
- first mechanical calculating ma
chine. for the solution of simultane
ous equations was announced at 
the Massachusetts Institute of- Technology last week. The device
Engineering under the direction of . Dr; Vannevar Bush, vice president . of the institute. - Tne-Ehrniflcince of the invention . is Indicated by the fact -that the labor Involved in the solution of - larqe numbers of simultaneous equations has hindered engineers
Idle Thoughts 
of an , 
Idle Nigfit 
Student
Dance Held By 
Art School Is 
Great Success
Vice President of Fine Arts 
Was Editor of 33 Handbook
You're Telling Me?*That last week's Tarlan disappointment to me. I have been
four.have- the lull news?v Isit that- the Tartan has gone Scotch or are they saving the news for a later
That you'r day student, well so am I these, days. From the way the fur le flying, editorially at least, one would I think, that the Tower of Babel was I aylng Instead of student opinion. From all indications It would seem that beTore the last chapter 13 wrlt- >t will be said about abridged abridged rights and priv- >f the student body, et al.
That the editor, too, got his neck
New President Presents 
Excellent Function
nd it1 ............_
Say nothing and get cnsured^or ^nQCClalmrf Wb atiended
A3 was anticipated, the Auti 
Dance which was held by the 
School in Thistle Hall was a ' 
derrul success. It was carried 
through in a typical Art School 
manner. The hall was beautifully decorated .with flowing drapes suspended from the corners ot the celling and dropping td the floor. Around the bottoms of the drapes, potted plants and ferns were* banked. A modernistic setting wee created for the orchestra platform
varl-colored-lights. All of the decorations were conceived and executed by the students of the Art School under the direction of Mr. White. The attendance was fine, .11 those present greatly enthe enjoyment of the function __ Freddy Herrick and his orchestra made their initial appearance at a night school event. The enthusi
get censured ' und say nothing. Which, I ask you, would be prefer- Or. is there any difference..
That the bell building got sor infused, like s
wer and activities, what mixed up,
band to the t this action will meet with the approval of those who attend the Council dances. Mr. Herrick is a familiar performer to those who frequent the local bright spots. He :4iias also become widely knowD | Ihrough his broadcasting '  work 1 of -the local stations.
*Workers Are Again 
Asked to Register
should inform the Night Social Chairman 'of this fact. Communications Tnay be dropped in the interschool mail box in the basement of the Administration Building, or mailed to Box 136. . Carnegie Institute of Technology.
It 'has been called to our attention that all of the night students who wish' to earn an activities. -key have not yet made this known to the Social Chairman. The prop- er way to do this, as stated .above is to send in' your name, address and college .lu which registered to the Night Social Chairman. If you have not yet made your Intention known, it would be wise to do so at the earliest possible date, as the longer you defer the beginning of your work in activities, the less time there will be to required number of
} will provide engineer* with a practical tool for the attack of many complex problems and promises to facilitate important research:..in several fields.' Complicated in . appearance, the new machine produces mechanically the mathematical conditions-of the quations to  be solved. Some idea of the In-  tricacy of -the device may be obtained'from the. fact that a second -proposed model calls for almost 1.000 bail-hearing pulleys and more- than 500 feet of steel tape, althougb  it will be only two feet wide, twoand a halt feet high and seven feel : long. A total of 110 vernier scales ;V penult the setting of the various co efficient and constants ot ten equa- - tlons, while ten more angular ver 'rwlerir eu*hi*t&s sperassr-ta- seadJ .-.-directly the solution of the equa, tlons.
auction in which they seek 'trade and sell second hand text : books;, athletic passes and labora[Liberty Engraving Company]
Colgate University to 
Change Arts Curricula
Declaring tbst the average under
graduate has brought no artistic 
perceptiou with him, John F. Fich* 
ten III, instructor In Fine Arts at 
Colga'te University,' is  alujtiiplhife" to do three things that will enable the student to understand and appreciate art. ,
He is seeking to give the student a more inclusive grasp of the, extent of the field of art; attempting to' develop the students ^critical judgment, and afford a basis for sound individual discrimination and 10 bring out a sense of th teal enjoyment that is to he derived fromart.' -
According . to Mr.  Fichten, the survey course in fine arts at Colgate has Been completely revised <5* that instead ot dealing hlatorgood indication of the ... cellence of the offerings of this group, it is expected that
Assistant Social 
Chairman Named
Russell A. Labr Appointed 
As Aide to Herbert Stone
Joseph Tracht Has Won: 
Reputation as Very 
, Fine Worker
Didja Notice
THAT a certain student has suggested that the Secretary of the Council be furnished a clock in which to keep the minutes. - 
THAT the Plaid staff repairs to the Brass Rail every Satur. day morning about 3 o'clock to munch hamburgers and guzzle
idi Is: baci
THAT a certain P.'and D. stu dent Is In the pressing game;- THAT a well known engineei ha taken up sign painting In . big way. y
THAT by the time you reac Arts Dance vjjll be pas'i good i
this, historyhave been had by all.
.THAT a certain Industries student is going up In smoke these days because of a late shipment of souvenirs.THAT while'there was little
early part of October in the Arts Building Mr. Joseph Tracht was elected to the office of Vice-President for the year 1934-35. Mr. Tracht who is registered in the Architectural Department has been on the Campus five years. Last year Mr. Tracht was Secretary of his College and also Editor of the Night Student Handbook. He will be remembered for the fine manner in which be handled this assignment, and for the many innovations within its pages. The Student Handbook, as most of us1 are aware, is the booklet which/is presented to each student at the time of registration. This booklet contains the dates of all important Night School functions and the loCouncil Holds 
First Meeting
Ex-President.Tprna Over 
Keys to Biochinger
OFFICERS CHOSEN
New Croup Is Now Ready to 
Take Up Work for Year
The first meeting of the 1934-35 
Night Student Council -,vae held 
Sunday afternoon, November 
.4, in the Reading Room of the Ad
ministration Building. All members. including the four officers of each college, were present, as were Messrs. A. J. (Lois, R. w. Lahr, and 
F Kolsun, President, Treasurer
year'^clmncii 
The meeting was called to order 1th a few introductory remarks Mr. 'C. A. Biochinger, President of the Night Student Council for the current year. - Mr. Lois, the latecation at which they are to be held. I iv'eslrtpnt' l?
Mr. Tracht has also been awarded ties of t-ho p >. n f 
Snlfs"' CD<:" ACtiVitfeS '-I _.
ll Addition to his College otrir. I -t!1? ,reBBnt!
NSC Sponsors 
Holiday Dance
Jbanksgiviog Fujn c.tion 
To Be Held Dec. 1
Everyone seems to be oiling up 
the heel and toe apparatus. That 
. a. certain committee Is -hoping that everyone Is. The reason for all this what seems lo be prepara- trjp the light fantastic is the coming Thanksgiving Recess Dane which is scheduled to be held on December 1, from 9 to 12
Ambassadors' to supply the melodic wherewithal. ^Brother Logan, of Ferry Logans, is lde for his sweet,
Electromagnet Is 
Built by Soviets
New Apparatus Is DesiEnfj 
For Experimentation
elected SecretaryMr. Tracht of the Night Student Council for the present year. It is generally
and the business ability which he
Roving Reporter Again 
Exposes Bad Situation
Yea and
. Lahr hag been ap-1 THAT
Stone In the formation and execuM,r. Lahr has been Campus since 1928 and has been ctive in Council affairs last four years. Mr. Lab: lslpred In the College of Engineering and baa been elccted Secretary
Schurko and Drensen 
Will Work on Thistle
John Schurko and Edmund Drensen appointed as Editor and Business Manager of the Nighty Section of the Thistle.
Mr. Schurko, the editor, was a member of the Thistle staff last year. He is Treasurer of the Night Student Council activities, havlDgreceived SchurkoThistle 1generally felt that he will fill
Insignias- previous work on the 1 of a high calibre and
his editorship with distinction.
Mr. Drensen, the business manner, has also been very active In ie workings of Council. He has :en service on the Puppet, and is at present Secretary of the Colthe field ot managing a college yearbook the ' President of Council vouches for Mr. Drensens ability to carry the "Job to successful
with 246,101 living In Canada and Newfoundland.
atonal athletes.Minnesota Oally.
ically with the various periods, styles and schools of art and of art In painting, sculpture and architectnre>:.tho. course .now has a broader field and considers this field from a different angle.
In a vacant arttcls Mr. Ficht quoted as saying that thi
cessary because of the general negThe Bell Telephone Com
tlon with all the fireworks and smoke. .
THAT the toys on Council ir getting lots of publicity with jlctures and everything.THAT the N. S. C. will not be
THAT the N. S. C. Is to hold a Turkey Dance. Theres a chance to feather that nest.THAT this sheet Is beginning- to read like-an amusement index.
THAT by the time this has been read the Duke-Tech battle will have been fought.  THAT'that's that and Ill be
Shylock was hooked, verily, mine irons, Shylock done up, bylked, stymied, culled, and generally profiteered on. How do I know?' There, dear public.
friend and ou epovter, who iround the office as Reginald the. Reprobate. The old boy has taken It upon himself to-show the other side of the story of the worlds most "done wrong by class of peopleShakespeares villains.
The proverbial pound of flesh that Shylock paid ten thousand
Ohe hundred and five prisoners 
the Ohio Prison farm have ap* 
plied for enrollment in Ohio State 
University's'  junior college  radio 
course.Montana Exponent.
Clarence Darrow, famous lawyer, never attended college.Red and
ducats (yes. 10,000) for, dentally did not get, was wo few cents. Accordingthe sclentists'of M. I. T. the actual value of the entire human body varies between 55 and 85 cents; That is of course the value of the chcmlcals in the human body. Imagine* Just imagine the infernal cruet of Antonio valuing his carcass at ten thousand ducats per
Exercise for the reader:' Calcu-, lato the valu of your better half. I Ours, like many other things these I . is in the red.
dei;t S-a'SQcil.
As is customaTy
Night Council, thii 
the first
the first
jsidency.
meeting of
election of officers busioees transacted.
Mr. J. Tracht su- mi. Koisum in the secretariat and Mr. W. A. Vensel heads the treasury.
Mr. Grimm in addition to being
- --ring, and during the past year Berred htr col- lege. in the capacity of Secretary. 
" vien a member of the ent Council for the past Mr. Grimm is quite fa- miliar with the set up of Council and needs no guidance in pen forming his new duties.
Tracht, who was elected Secretary of the Council is also Vice-President of the Night ColCcuncii ioned
'racht edited the present edition the Night Student Council
he prepared the he____also a member of the Thistle Stal for last year.
Vensel, who is the Preslden : Night College of Engineei ... 'as elected Treasurer of thi Council. Mr. Vensel has spent twi years in Council and during tlt< oast year was editor of the Night Section of the Thistle, Carnegl;
functions at Penn State,Slate and other schools. ___chestra enjoyed great popularity during the time he played at the Hotel Shelborn at Atlantic City.New wrinkles in the Council crepe paper are planned, as well as new and unusual lighting effects which will go to make up the decorative scheme for the dance. In all, Mr. Stone is doing all in his power to outshine his predecessors. Off the reco.d, it Icons 1:1:9 the dance win be well up among the best yet.
Tickets have been mailed to the activities workers, and it is hoped that the students will ptircbaso their tickets from them, rather than pay at the door. The door 1 fee, as usual, will be one dollar a I couple. This dance is the first be- ! ing given this year under the ban-1 ner of the Night Student Council, and is open to the public.
The assembly of one 0f ,h I 
wjrlds largest eleclromosueti, w 
recently been completed at / 
Electrosila Works. Leningrad,!]
S. R. The magnet is part apparatus which will be i.Jh bombard atoms and wjjj be Tl ed, when completed, in the I torles of the Radium Instilui/ r ! Ingrad, it has a diameter 0f^l meter, weighs forty tons an/? made of chemically pllr* jro  
tainlng but a fraction of oae 2 cent of carbon. ^
Because of this purity (re st is expected to have a n,UCTJf tension of 15.OOO Gauss units ?  forty, millimeter span between i5! poles. Although the clecU-ic u, sion in the span will not exc<Sr! one hundred and twenty v0Us i?1 magnet's action is expected  tain an equivalent of six 1 volts.
Electrons and protons b, within the influence of thii netic field are expected to irarl at speeds approaching that a 
.....................up log
protons bronci I
this tremendous velocity .vj. -'-g;- - J- atoms uuicv hope that this 
coveries about the structure nature of atoms; the ultimate end being the means of tapping  energy stored up in the atom.
The building of e mnene this size is as difficult an engineering feat in Its way as is the castill lead to new dg
...Studenthad to be machine-planned . precision limit of two-hundredtbs of a millimeter, and that a special insulation for. the windings ' be worked out. *
LARGEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND. STANDARDIZED -
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00
RENT tATYPE^UT^tal
POBTPXTT 
TYPEWRITER CO.. 44 LIBERTY AVENUE
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented, repaired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.
American Writing 
Machine Company B01 liberty avenuePITTSBURGH ATIantic 5488 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
Peoples* 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes .and Meyran
'THE OAKLAND 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
lliat cost so little 
and give so much
